PU3U&HED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO t Xo. 4 ,, BROAD-STREET, NEAR VIIE EXCHANGE, NEW-YORK
C.No. 53, f/Voi.tfl.]
From thi ENGLISH REVIEW,
FOR NOVEMBER, j 7 8 7 .
[A Dclcnce of the Conftitptions r»f Government of the Jjn'fjd
States of America. By >i'N Adam, LI..D. and a Mimb'n
o: the Academy oi Arts an'd Seitncti at Uollon.J
(ContirJieJJtom cur !.:Jt.)
OUR the opinjpp
rvKCOT, '' a(li;ml)lv oFreprelen
/jßhfV&sVhoulftUe chosen by t!v< jjatton, and vert
ed with all the powers of government; and tliat
this aflembly, being the centre in which all au
thority is collected, (hall be virtually deemed the
r.ation." To llate the conferences, and expose
the absurdity of this opinion, Mr. Adams takes a
scries, but comprehensive view of all those conn
tries in Europe 111 which the government may be
called republican ; and from uiis survey, denion
ftrates the necessity of different orders in a ilate,
and of an equilibrium between thein. His reflec
tions in the tweury-third letter are enlightened,
spirited, and manly :
44 As we hftvc taken a cur Cory view of those countries in Europe'
where the government may be called, m any reafonabJe «onltruc
tion of the word, republican, Jet us now paufc a few moments,
and rtflett upon what we have seen.
" Among every people, and in every species of republics, we
Juvc constantly found a firft magiftrStc, a head ; a chief, under
various denominations, indeed, and with different degrees of au
thority, with the title of ftadtholdcr, burgomaster, avover, doge,
confalloniero, president, fyndick, mayor, alcade, capitaneo, go
vcrnor, or king ; in every nation wc have met with a diftinguilh
ea officer : it there is no example in any free government any
more ihan in those which are not free, of a society without a prin
cipal personage, we may fairly conclude that the body politic can
not subsist without one any more than the animal body without a
head. If M. Turgoi had made any discovery which had escaped
the penetration of all the legislators and philosophers who had
lived before him, he ought at least to have communicated it to
the world for their improvement; but as he has never hinted a:
any such invention, we may fafely conclude that he had none ;
and therefore, that the Americans are not jifftly liable to cenfure
for instituting governors.
" In every form of government we have fecn a senate, or little
council; a ion generally of those offucrs of state who
have the most experience and power, and a few other members
felc&ed from the highest ranks and most illustrious reputations.
On these letter councils, with the full magiitrate at their head,
generally rcfts the p.i»*ctj*d iwrrfcn o*', adn .liftrutiun, a ftrare hi
tlw le?iflaii\e as welf as executive and i<.r .ual authority qt go
vernment* The admiUion of such senates to a participation ol
thef? three kinds of power has been generally observed to produce:
in the minds of their members an ardent ariftocratical ambition,
grasping equally at the prerogatives of the firft magiftiate, and
she privileges of the people, and ending in the nobility of a few
families, and a tyrannical oligarchy : but in those States where
the senates have been dcKarrcd from all executive power, and
confined to the legislative, thfy haw- been oblervcd to be firm bar
riers against the encroachments of the crown, and often greai fup
portersof the liberties of the people. The Americans then, who
have carefully confined their senates to the legislative power, have
done wifely in adopting them.
44 \Vc have fecn, in every instance, another and a larger aflcm
bly, coißpo'ed of the body of the p »ple, in some liule States ;
of representatives r holen by people in others; of members ap
pointed by the senates, and funpofed to reptefent the people, in
ti thud fo*t; and of persons appointed by themfelvca or the sen
ate, in certain arillocracies, to prevent them from becoming oli
garchies. The Americans tbpn, whole. afTcmbliis are the most
adequate, proportional, and equitable representations of the peo
ple that are known in the world, will not be thought erroneous
in appointing houses of reprcfcntativcs.
44 In every republic, in the fma I left and most popular, in the
larger and more afttiftocratical, as well as in the largest and most
monarchical, we have observed a multitude of curious and ingen
ious inventions to balance, in their turn, all those powers, to
check the passions peculiarto them, and to control them from ruffl
ing into those exorbitances to which they are most addi£led ; the
Americans will rhen be no longer cenluicd for endeavoring to in
troduce au equilibrium, which is much more profoundly medita
ted, and much more cffc&ual for the protection of the laws, thaii
any wc have fecn, except in England ; we may tven question,
whether that is an exception.
44 Id every cpuntry wc have found a variety of orders, with
*ery great diftinclions. In America there arc different orders of
oifices, but none of men ; out of offi :call men arc of the fame
/pecies, and of one blood ; there is neither a greater nor a lelfjr
nobility. . Why then are they accused of establishing different or
ders ot men ? To our inexpreflible mortification we mufl. havt
remarked that the people have preserved a Ihare of power, or an
cxiftencir in the government, in no country out of Kngland, ex
cept upon the tops of a few inacctflible mountain.*, among rock.',
and precipices, in territories so narrow that you may span them
wish an band's hrcadth ; where, living un nvied, in extreme po
verty, chiefly upon pailur»ge, destitute of manufa£lures and com
merce, the> ft ii exhibit the moll charming pi&iire of life, and th
»noft dignified chara&er of human nature. .
44 "Wherever we .have fcca a territory somewhat larger, aits and
sciences more cultivated, commerce flouriftiing, or even agriculture
improved to any great degree, an aristocracy has risen up in a
rnurfe of time, confiding of a lew rich and honorable families,
.who have united with each.other against both the people and th
inag»ftratc; wrested from the former, by art and bv force, a 1!
ibtir participation in the government, and even infpircd them
with \q me.in an rftcem of t.hcmfelves, and so deep a veneration
and strong attachment to their rulers, as to believe and contefi
ihein a superior oider ot beings.
44 We have fecn these noble families, although neceifitated to
have a head, extremely jeaUpus of his influence, anxious to reduci
jiis power, and constrain him to as neai a level with themfeivefi
ps pofliblc, alwajs endeatforiug to eflablifla a rotation, by which
tlicy may allequaily in turn be entitled to the pre-eminence-, and
equally anxious to prefei ve to thcmlelvcs as large a lhaic of pow
rr as pofiibJcin ibe executive .<nd jwdiaitij, as well *s the
department* of f-be stair.
WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 13, 1790.
1 hefe patrician fatnilieshave alio appeared, iri every inflance,
to be equally jealous ot each OLher, and to have contrived, by
blending lot and choice, by mixing various bodks in tlie elections
to flic* lame offices, and even by tht; horrors of an inquisition, to
guard againfl the fin that so eafilv besets them, of being wholly
influenced and governed by a junto or oligarchy of a few among
themselves.
" V* e have fern no one government in which is a diftin£l repar
ation of the lcgiHitivc from the executive power, and of the judi
cal from both, or in yjurh any 2ttc.,ipt been made to balance
intfe powers w'nh one another, or > form an equilibrium be
tween the one, the lew, and the majj' lor the purpose of ena£l ; ng
and executing equal laws, by common consent, lor the general
mtereft, excepting in .England.
11 Shall we conclude, from these melancholy observations, that
human nature is incapable of liberty ; that no hon<-(l equality can
be preserved in society ; and that such forcible causes arc always ai
work as mufl reduce all men to a fubmillion to despotism, monar
chy, oligarchy, or artftocracy f
44 By no m ans, —We have seen one of the firft nations in Eu
rope, poffeued of ample and fertile territories home, and exten
live dominions abroad, of a commerce with the whole world,
immense wealth, and the greatest naval power which ever belon
ged to any nation, who have still preserved the power of the peo
ple, by the equilibrium ware contending for, by the triai by
jury, and by couilantly refufing a (landing army. The people of
England alone, by prefcrving their fnarc iri the legislature, at th
■ex pence of the blood of heroes and patriots, have enabl d iheii
kings to curb the nobility, without giving him a (landing army.
44 After all, let us compare every Constitution we have 1c en wit!i
those of the United States of America, . id we fliall have no rea
son to blufti lor our country ; on the coutrary, we (ball feel tii
llrongcft motives to fall upon our knees in gratitude to heaven,
for having beep graciouflv plea fed to give us birth and edulat.ou
in that country, and tor having defined us to live under her laws !
We (hall have rrafon to < xult, il we make our comparison with
England and the JKnglilb conUitution. Our people arc undoubt
edly lovere:gn ; all the landed and otherjpropcrty is in the haud.>
ol the citizens; not only their reprefemuives, but their senators
and governor*, are annually chosen ; theicf arc no hereditary tide ,
honours,offices, or diltmtlions ; the leg:flative, executive, and ju
dicial powers are carefully separated from each other ; the pow
ers of the on-, the few, and the many, are nicely balanced in their
legislatures ; trials by jury are preterved jn all their glory, and
there is no Handing army ; the harbeas corpus is in full force ; the
press is the mo ft free in the world ; and, where all these circum
stances take place, it is unnectfTary to add, that tire laws alone can
govern.
In the subsequent letters Mr. Adams contem-
with a critical and philosophic eye, the
jnoft celebrated states and common wealths of an
tiquity, Carthage, Athens, Crete .Corinth,
Ai ga&, riic'i»c!>, Crotona, Sybaris, Locris, and
Komc ; and at the fame time delivers the opin
ions of the celebrated ancient and modem writers
concerning the principles of government in ge
neral, ami i liefe governments in particular. The
result of his researches is favorable to that divi
ii°n of power which the English and the Ameri
cans have adopted, and which appears to reft up
on the authority, the experience, and the wildoin
of ages.
In the poftfeript, Mr. Adams favors the public
with the copy ot a letter which he lent to the
Abbe de Mably when he declared his intention of
writingoti the American revolution. The adven
turous lpi. itof the French literati is well known ;
who, trusting to the vcrfatility of their talents,
which is often great, and to the correct elegance
of their language, which is universally read, pre-
I'ume to write on all l'ubjecfts, foreign and domes
tic, human and divine, on a very (lender acquain
tance. Our author's requelt to the Abbe to write
upon American alfairs was a piecc of nicer civil
ity, and, as he informs us, " rather a defirethat
he would not expofc hivifelf, by attempting a his
tory that he was altogether unprovided foi*, than
any formal reqoeft that he Ihould write at all.
\V'e are obliged," continues Mr. Adams, " to any
gentleman in Europe who favors us with his
thoughts ; but, in general, the theory of govern
ment is as well understood in America as it is in
Europe; and by great numbers of individuals is
every thing, relating to a free conltiturion, infi
nitely better comprehended than by the Abbe de
Mably, or M. Turgor, amiable, learned, and in
genious as tliev were."
O _ J
The preface to this work contains many excel,
lent anil manly sentiments, worthy of an ancient
Greek or Roman. The following obfenratidns,
which iorin a panegyric on the Englilh as well ais
American constitution, will serve as a specimen £
4i It is become a kind ot falhion among writers to admit, as a
maxim, that, if you could be always sure of a wife, a&ive, and vir
tuous Prince, monarchy would be the bed of governments. But
tnis is so far from being admiflible, that it will forever remain
true that a free government has a great advantage over a fimplc
monarchy. The bed and wisest Prince, by means of a freer com
munication with the people, and the greater opportunities to col
-1 £1 tbe be ft advice from the b eft of his fubje&s, would have an
immense advantage in a free state more than in a monarchy. A
lenate CQnfifting of all that if most nobK, wealthy, and able in th<
nation, with aright to counsel the crown at all times, is a check to
ministers, and a security againlk abates, that a body of nobles who
never meet, and have no such light, can never aceomplifh. Ano
.ner aflembly, compofcd r;f reprcfentaiive*, chosen by the people
11 all paru, gives the whole nation freeaccefs, and communicate*
'I the wants, knowledge, projects, and wilhet of the nation, to
government; rxcitc? an emulation among all claflfes, remove* com-
625
p aints, rcdr>'flVs grievances, aflords opp of exertion to
genius, though in ohfeuritv, ?nd gives full scope to all ine fa. ultu s
of iv.zn ; opens a palfagefor every fpecuhtiooto tlie Jcg:Qature, to.
admiinllration, and to the public ; ll gives an univetfai energy io
the human chara£ler, in every part ol the flaie, which'never can be
obtained in a monarchy. •
<k There is a third particular which deserves attention both from
governments a»d people. The minillers of fUte, i-i a fun pie m>-
n.irchv, can never know their friends from their enemies ; cab is
in kcrc't undermine their influence, and blast their reputations.
This oceafions a jealousy ever anxious and irritated, which never
ihinks-the government fafe without an encouragement of inforrt
crs and spies, throughout everv part of the Hate, who interrr H the
tranquility ot private life, destroy the confidence of families in
their own domestics and one another, and poison freedom ir» iis
fwecteil retirements. In a free government, on the contrary, the
mir.ifter s can have no enemies ofconfcquence but among the mem
bers ol the great or little council, where every man-is obliged to
t.:kc his fide, and declare his opinion upon everv question. This
circumstance alone, to every manly mind, would be fufficienr to
decide the preference in favor of a free government. Even secre
cy, where the executive is en l ire in one hand, i is cafily and fureJy
prtferv.d in a free government as in a ftmple monarchy; and as
to difpatcb, ail the limple monarchies of the whole un:verft rr.ny
be defied to produce greater or more examples of it than arc t$ be
found in Englilh hiflory."
The celebrated Mr. Hmne nfed to call Dr.
Franklin " the firfl fruits of America." The
American revolution has given elalticitv and en
ergy torhe minds of the inhabitants, lias called
torih talents and abilities of every
produced a more copious harvelt tlian the I'olitrv
ry " firft fruits" oljferved by Mr. Hunuvfeeme4
to indicate. A Copley and a Weft have obtain
ed the honois of the pencil : f>wi«ht, Barlow,
and Trumbull, have diftiuguifhed theinfelves in
poetry ; Uelknapand Kaml iy in hillory ; Jeil'er
lon has excelled in philosophical refearchej ;
Paine in political speculations ; and to thefc
names, known and appietiaied by the learned
world, that of Mr. Adams will be added, who, in
the work before us, discovers an extetit of learn
ing, an acutenefs of re.'leilion, and a masculine
spirit, which few amballadors in any court of
turope poflefs, but which all of them \votild be
proud lo display. Whatever opinion we may
'entertain of Americati ambition or policy, the
niufcs are never ai ivar however the feale of
empire >■»(« or falls, every lover of lirerature
will rejoice that the arts are abaut to make the
tour of the world ; and that the fame fun offci
ence and taste which gilded the east with its ori«
ent rays, is now illuminating the weft, and dif
fufing warmth and splendour on regions tii.it
were formerly unknown to history, and reijiote
from civilization. >
FAMILY COMPACT
Report of the Covnnittet of Foreign Ajf.i 'nt to the
nr.,r / * .t/r i i
National jfffembiy.
" Your committee having taken into their mod
.fctious consideration the requisition front the
Court of Spain, demanding a categorical an(\ver,
touching our engagements, in consequence of the
Family Compa&, have the honor to fubmitto the
wisdom of the National AfTembly, whether- a
flriift compliance with the said requisition would
nor be rilking too much under the present circum-
Hances of the kingdom, more especially the Ma
ture of the question being materially altered since
the preliminary declarations between England
and Spain, subsequent to the date of our deliber
ation on this point, affording us theple&fingprof
pert ofa speedy and amicable accommodation
between the two powers ; nevertheless, fhauld
your best endeavours towards a happy termina
tion fail, we hold ourselves bound in honour to
fapport our ancient ally,in every such right and
claim as you lhall deem reasonable and jnft."
Theladmeflengerto Madrid had orders to (lay
for the answer from the Spanish Court ten days,
and no longer. On the expiration of the ninth
d«y, Mr. Fitzherbert lent notice to Count Flori
da Blanca that the meflenger would certainly quit
Madrid on the ensuing day. This occafioued an
immediate interview, and produced the declara
tions. It is evident from this, that the Spaniard
only consulted the convenience of the moment—
only did it to prolong time—that he did it with
great relutftarice—and will wipe away the dis
charge with a war, if France can be brought to
alfift him. '
AVAR DEPARTMENT, Sept. 9, 1790*
INFORMATION is hereby giveu toall the military Invalids of
the United States, that the fuws to which thev are annually cu
titlcd, «rld which will become due on ihe fourth day of March
ensuing, will be paid on the faici day, by the Commiflioneis oi:
the Loans within the states refpe&ively, under such regulations
a,s the President of the United States may direst.
[W ho ;.e No. if"]
H. KN'O'",
Secretary for th: Dtfartmenl e/War.DISCOURSES ON DAVILA.
No. xxi r
htervonit dtinde, his,cogitationiius,avitum malum, rcgni cupiioi atque
. inde pedum cercamcn coortum.
THE Queen-inothci and the Guifcs, delayed no longer the
opening of'the States. They l>. gan by the protcffion of
faith, drawn up by the Sol bonne, conformably to the do&nnes of
the Ruman Catholic Chuich. The Cardinal de Tournon, Prefi
dentof the order of the Clergy, read it with a loud voice, and
each of the deputies appiovcu ond adhered to it, upon oath , a
precaution which they judged neccffary to assure thcmfelves of the
catholicity of thole who were to have a deliberative voice, in the
general assembly. Alter this solemn a&, the Chancellor proposed,
in the pretence of the King, the matters which were to be taken
into consideration. At the instance of the, Provinces, the three orders
Jeparated, to examine the f effective demands, and make report oj their
rejtsluluns. But all this was merely theatrical : it was nothing
but farcical scenery. The Guiles knew, as well as the Contlable
«ie Montmorency, that the mioillry could govern the kingdom,
and nation at its will, as a Court or Supreme Executive alwayi
will, where it is checked pnly by a (ingle reprefetnative assembly,
cfpccially if that assembly have no authority but to advise.. Nay,
if it have Legislative authority, the majority in that assembly can
only govern, by impofiog its own men on the Executive, in other
-words, by forcing the King, to take their creatures into the minis
try. So chat the minillry and the majority in the National Assem
bly must always atl in concert, and be agreed ; and they general
ly arc so, to the intolerable oppreflion of the minority, as 111
this cafe. Reformition of government, and liberty of conscience,
and redress of grievances in religion, were fubjefb which the
court had too much cunning to biing before the Assembly. That
•would have, been, as the Constable expressed it,-to have prepared
a formidable opposition to themselves. Had the point been then
fettled, that the Sates were a Legislative affeinbly ; and had the
ijueftion of religion been brought fairly into deliberation and dis
cussion before them, it is very probable that liberty of conscience
to the Hugonots, might have been the result, even in that age.—
But these, as Davila fays, were the smallest objects they had in
view : all minds expcSed with much more solicitude, the iffueof
the detention of the Prince of Condi. Their doubts were soon
Telolved by a declaration of council signed by the King, the Chan
cellor and all the grandees, except the Guifec, who,as fufpefted of
partiality, atfcfled not to appear in this affair. Acommiffion was
eflablifhed for the trial of the Prince, with authority to render a
definitive fentencc. De Thou, prelidcnt, and Faye and Viole,
counsellors of the Parliament of Paris, were the' Judges— Bourdin,
Attorncy.Geucral, Tillot, Secretary: All the interrogations and
acts weru done in the pretence of the Chancellor L'Hopital They
heard the depositions of the prifouers of Amboifc, Lyons and
others. They made preparations to interrogate the Prince. He
refufed to answer, alledging that in quality of Prince ot the blo6d,
he acknowledged no other tribunal, than the Parliament of Paris.
He demanded an assembly of all the chambers of Parliament ;
that the King should be prcient in pn l'on, and that the twelve
Peers (hould have a voice,as well as the great officers of the crown,
according to the ancient usage. That he could not excuse himfdf,
for not. remonstrating ajainft a proceeding so unheard of, and ir
regular, and stum appealing to the King. This appeal was carri
ed to council, and appeared authorized by reason, by the ordina
ry formalities, and by the cuftoins ol the kingdom. But rhe spi
rit of rivalry, which is the spirit of party, demanded a sudden
vengcance : a party at present triumphant, but doubtful whether
it were at bottom the inotl powerful, were impelled by fear, as
well as hatred, to with a prompt dccitiun. The appeal was de
clared null. But the Prince, having renewed it, and persisting in
his protestations, the council, at the motion of lh- Attorney-Ge
neral, pronounccd that they ?ught to conlider the Prince as con
victed, fmce he refufed to answer to commissioners named by the
King. In this manner they obliged him to submit to interroga
tories, and purfucd the trial, without loss of time, to final judj-
menf,
The Princes oT Bourbon, at the summit of misfortune, wrre ve- ]
ry near expiating with their blood, the heinous crime of daring
in competition with the Guises, to patronize liberty of
confcience,and to (heller Irom p rfecution the diftrrffed Hugonots :
as Manlius was precipitated from the Tarpeian Rock, for being
the friend of the opprellcd debtors, and the Hval of Camillus and
theQuintian family. Both wereaccufed, it is true, with crimes
against the state. The l'plendor of the birth of the two Bourbons,
and their personal merit, inrercftcd all France. Even their ene
mies pitied their dcltiny. The Gu'.fcs alone, naturally enterpriz
ing, pursued constantly their designs, without regard to the merit
or quality of thofc Princes, whether they judged such an ast of fc
vci ity absolutely neccifdi y, to the lafety and tranquility of the
kingdom, or whether, as their enemies iuppofed, th y had no
thing in view but the deflru&ion of their rivals, and the ,*(bbliih
mcnt of their own grandeur. They declared openly, that it was
necefTdi yby two fti okes, at the fame time,to flrike off the heads of
Heresy and Rebellion. Such is thefpint of fophijlry : and such is
the spirit of party. The Queen-mother, although she confcnted fe
cretlv, and wilhed that the resolution taken at Amboife, of dc
ftroying the Princes, (hould be executed, defned nevertheless, that
' all the odiuin of it fhoitld fall upon th. Guiles, as (he had always
had the address, to accomplish. She proposed to manage the two
parties, for tear of those unforefeen events, which the inconstancy
of fortune might produce ; and .-tfedted much grief and melan
cho'ly in hef behaviour, and reserve in her discourse. She had
even frequent conferences with the two Ciiatillons, the Admiral
and Cardinal, in which (he appeared disposed to seek some expe
dient, to extricate from danger the Princes of the blood. She
amused in the fame manner, the Dutchefs of Montoenfier, a Prin
ce fl full of the best inreutions, an enemy of all diliimulation, and
who judged of i he chara&ers of others by the re&itudc of her own.
■Her inclination to Calvinism, and her intimate connexions with
the King of Navarre,»had enabled her to commence and continue
between that Prince and the Queen, a secret correfpondefrce.
These intrigues, although oppofice to the condu& which
the court held in public, were palliated with so much artifice,that
the most could not unravel their genuine deli m,even
when thev reflettcd on the depths of the secrets ofinankind, and
the diversity ot interests and pailions which serve as motives to
their a£hons.
Already the comraiflirmers had rendered their judgment against
the Prih'cc of Conde. They had condemned him, as convi&ed
of high treason and rebellion, to be beheaded, before the palace
of the King, at the hour of the aflem bly of the States General.
They delayed the execution, only to draw into the fame {dare
the Con liable; who, in fpight of the repeated inftanccs of the
court, still delayed his journey to the States. They wished to
involve in the fame prolcriprion the King of Navarre, but they
had not proofs agaiuft him, fufficient to fatisfy their own crcaturcs
when one morning the King, in drefling himfelf, fell all at once
into a swoon, so deep and violent, that his officers believed him
to be dead. He recovered his senses, it is true : but his malady
was judged to be mortal, and his life was despaired off This fa
tal mischance terrified the Guiles. They pressed the Oueen mo
ther, to execute the sentence against the Prince of Conde, while
the breath remained in the bodv of the King, and to take the fame
resolution against the Kino; of Navarre, to prevent :>ll the revolu
tions which they might have to fear, in cafe of the King's death.
They represented to her, with warmth, that this was the sole
means of prelcrving the crown to her other infant children, and
of diflipaling the storm which menaced France : that, although
the Couftablc was uot arretted, and ia the present dclicau cTr
cumftaiioe«, it would not be prudent to seize hint, yet >\hen
they (hould have no longer tp fear, neither the credit, nor the
prctenfions of the Princes of the blood, the ConlUble would be
less formidable, as he would neither have the nobility in his ln
terells nor the Hugonots of his party : that to deliberate in the
moment of execution, and fulpend it in this critical lituation o
the King, would be to lose thelruitof so many projefls cm.-
du3ed to their end, with so much artifice and patience : that
even the death of the King ought not to be an obstacle, becaule
that b.others succeeding him of right, the fame reasons and the
fume intcrefts dill fubfilUd, both for them and their mother.
The Queen who had known'how topieferve herielf neuter, at
least in appearance, and who had not motives so urgent to pre
cipitatcmcalures, confidcred th.it under a minority, Kings might
change their afpeft, and that the excLflive grandeur of the Guiles
remaining without opposition, might become to her as forimda
ble as the ambition of the Princes of the blood. Thus lome
times by supposing the distemper ol the King to be leis d.mgei °" s '
sometimes by spreading favorable reports of a Ipeedy cure, lhe
gained time, delayed the execution of the Prince and rcferved
the liberty of acting according to circumlbnces, conformably to
those views, in which {he was confirmed by the councils ol the
Chancellor de L'Hofpital. As soon as !he had known that the
Kings life was in danger, (he requclled the son of the Dukede
Montpenfier, to conduit her fecretlyone night into the apartment
of the King of Navarre, and in a long convention which ilie had
with him, foe endeavoied, with her orainary diflimulation, to
pcrfuade him, that (he wasvery far from approving all that had
palled, and wiftied to ast in concert with him, to oppose the am
bition of Ihe Guises. The Prince depended little on the finceritv
of these protections : they had however an effect in the sequel.—
On the fifth of December the King died.
Charles the ninth, second son of the Queen, succeeded to Fran
cis the second his brother.—He was but eleven years of age, and
mutt have a tutor, and the Kingdom a regent.
TO ALL WHOM THESE PRESENTS SHALL COME.
BE IT KNOWN, That Robert Yates, John
Lanfing, jun. Gulian Verplanck, Simeon De
Witt, Egbert Benfon,and Melan<fton Smith, Com
miflioners appointed by an ast of the Legillature
of the State of N'ew-York, entitled " An A«sl ap
pointing coimnilHoners with power to declare the
consent of the Legillature of this State, that a
certain territory within the jurifditftion thereof
should be formed into a new State," pafled the
lixth day of March last, DO hereby by virtue of
the powers to them granted for the purpole, de
clare the consent o/the Legillature of the State of
New-York, that«the community now actually ex
ercising independent jurifdi&ion, as the STATE
OF VERMONT, be admitted into the United
States of America, and that immediately from
such admiilion ullclaipiof jurifdiifton of the State
of New-York within the Stare of Vermont shall
cease, and thenceforth, the'perpetual boundary
line between the State of New-York and the State
of Vermont shall be as follows, viz. Beginning
at the northwest corner of the State of Mafia
chufetts, thence westward along the south boun
dary of the towhfliipof Pownall to the foulliwelt
corner thereof, thence northerly along the welt
ern boundaries of the townfhipof Pownall, Ben
nington, Shaftfbury, Arlington, Sandgate, Ru
pert, Pawlett, Wells,- and Poultney, as the laid
townships are now held or poflelfed to the river
commonly called Poultney river, thence down
tbe fame through the middle of the deepest
channcl thereof to East Bay, thence through the
middle of the deepest channel of East Bay and
the waters thereof to where the fame communi
cate with Lake Chnniplain ; thence through the
middle of tl;e deepi-lt channel of Lake Cham
plain to the eastward of tbe islands called the
Four Brothers, and the westward of the islands
called Grand Isle and Long IJle, or the Two He
roes, and to the westward of the lile LaMotte to
the forty-fifth degree of north latitude. And
the fanl Coinmiflioners do hereby declare the will
of the Legillature of the State of New-York, that
if the Legillature of the State of Vermont shall
on or before tliefirft day of January, in the year
one thousand f'even hundred and ninety-two, de
clare, that the State of Vermont shall, on or be
fore the firft day of June, in the year one thou
fand»feven hundred and ninety-four, pay to the
State of New-York the sum of thirty thousand
dollars, that immediately from such declaration
by the Legillature of the State of Vermont, all
rights and titles to lands within the State of Ver
mont, under grants from the government of the
late colony of New-York or from the State of
New-York, except as herein after excepted, shall
cease ; or, if the Legislature of the State of Ver
morit (kail not c'.eiSt to make such declaration,
then that, except in cases where the grants from
New-York were, intended as confirmations of
grants from New-Hampshire, all rights and ti
tles under grants from the government of the late
colony of New-York, or from the State of New-
York to lands within the State of Vermont which
may have been granted by the governor of the
late colony of New-Hampshire shall cease, and
the boundaries according to which such grants
from the government of the late colony ot New-
Hampshire have been held or pofl'efled shall be
deemed to be the true boundaries ; and the said
commilfionei s do hereby further declare the will
of the Legillature of the State of New-York, that
all rights and titles to lands within the State of
Vermont under grants from the government of
the late colony of New-York, or from the State
ot New-York and not granted by the govern
ment of the late colony of New-Hampshire, shall
be suspended until the expiration of three years af
ter the governor of the State ot Vermont for the
626
NEWYORK.
time Ucino- (hall have been notified th at a eoni
mifiioner to "be appointed by the State of New-
York after the fir it day of January in the year
one thousand lev en hundred and ninety-two,
ana to refuleand bold a public office at the city
of Albany, (hall have entered upon the execu
tion of his office : And it within one year after
such notification there llia.ll be delivered to such
commifiioner, either the original or a certified
abltradt containing the date, the names of the
grantees, and the boundaries of a grant from
New York, and if thereupon, at any time be
fore the expiration of the said term of three years
above mentioned, there fiiail be paid to such
cominilfioner at the rate often cents per acre for
the whole or any parcel of the lands contained*
in such grant from New-York, all right ami title
under loch grant fiiail, in refpetft to the lands for
which payment f.iall be made, cease, and a re
ceipt under the hand and seal of such commissi
oner fpeci tying the lands for which payment lliall
be made fitall be evidence of the payment. And
in default of delivering the original or such certi
fied abftraCi of the grant to the commifiioner
within the said term of one year for that pur
pofo above limited, all right and title under the
grant i" respect of which there fiiail be such de
fault of delivery fiiail cease, but where the origi
nal or certified abftraft of the grant (hall be duly
delivered to the commifiioner, the right and ti
tle under the grant in refpedt to the lands for
which payment fiiail not be inajJe, fiiail remain,
and fuirs for the recovery of such lands ihny le
prosecuted 111 the ordinary course oflaw, provi".
ded the suit be commenced within ten years after
the state of Vermont fiiail have been admitted
into the union of the United States, otherwise
the right and title under the grant from New.
York, (hall in such cafealfo cease. It: testimo
ny whereof, the said commifiioners have here
unto let their hands and affixed their seals the
seventh day of October in the fifteenth yeay of
the Independence of the United Stares of Ame
rica, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
ROBERT YATES (L. S.)
JOHN LANSING, jun. (L. S.) .
GULIAN VERPLANCK (L. S.)
SIMEON DK WITT (L. S.) '
EGBERT BENSO'N (L. S.)
MELANCTON SMITH (L. S.)
IVitnejps,
Richard Varick,
Alexander. Hamilton,
Samuel Jones,
Robert Benson.
REMARKS ON THE ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
IN the use of the word merchant, the people of"
this State differ from their fitter States and
from the Englifli nation. In its primitive
this word fignified any trader whatever ; that
is, any person who procured a living by buying
and felling. But etymology can not be gene
rally relied 6n, as leading to the true present lig
nification of words, which depends wholly on
national use. The word merchant, in modem
'pra<3ice, is applied only to wholesale and.
should not be confouuded with retailers or fliop
keepers. It would not be very material hbw wc
use words in Connecticut, if 110 other people
fpoke the fame language ; but this State is but
a little part of that great community, which uses
the fame language ; and no person will pretend
that we have a right to impose new meanings
upon words. At any rate it fubjedts us to-an in
convenience ; for when we use the word merchant
in our local sense, people abroad do 110 c under,
(land us, or if they do, they l'oppofe us deficient
in education.
The words Shop and Store are also confounded
in our common practice, Store being used to fig
-111 fy every kind of building where goods are
lodged for sale or security. Hence we are under
a necetfity of introducing tlie diflint'tion of
whole file Jfon and retail store. This trouble might'
be spared, by using the words according to their
true fenTe, viz. jhop for the apartment or build
ing where goods are retailed ; and store or i.-cr-e
---houfe for a building where goods are deposited
in bulk. ( American Mercury.)
LONDON, August 9
THE national colour in Ireland is green. The
national cockade begins already Co give the
green f ckne/s to government and its emiilaries.
On Saturday night laftdiedof a ferer, in New
gate, the Rev. Philip Withers, 'Who was sentenc
ed to one year's imprifonnient for a libel on Mrs.
Fitzherbert. lie had many works of geniiis in
contemplation that would have done honor to
literature—and among the reft was that much
wanted publication, aßevilion of Johnson's Dic-
tionary,
August 14 —19.
In the Svvedifh account of the two actions on
the 4th and 9th ult. the defeat and the vidtory
as ftatcd in the Gazettes of Stockholm, we are in
formed, that the Ruffians, in their firft victory,
had two ships of 100 j>uns each blown up, arid five
ihips of the line disabled. This, if it be tine, is a
considerable drawback on their triumph. In theaccount of tlie brilliant atchievemcnt of his Ma- |
jefty on the 9th, the account states, that he took
and deltroyed feventyfive veflels, and that tlie
Ruffians loft jooomen. Such are the contradicto
ry accounts; and so contradictory have been all
$he accouncs published by the two powers! It is
oar duty to llate them impartially ; it will he for
the judgement of our readers to di (criminate.
The flame of liberty, which has spread (o ra
pidly in France, seems to direct its next confla
gration to the Pope's dominions, as we are allured
on the credit of a gentleman just returned from
Rome, that alabel to the following purport was
publicly placed round the neck of Pafquin, afew
days before he left that city.
'< More Freedom, a better government,
" And no Pope."
AUGUST 23
When the last news came from Bruflels, the
town was a I'cene of anarchy and apprehension.
It is thought that Van der Noot, and the Junto
chat coiupjfe his party, will loon fly the country,
and the next letters will probably bring lis the
farther information, that several »f the provinces
are preparing to fend a deputation 10 Vienna,
with an acknowledgment of King Leopold as
their lawful fovcreign.
We have already teen, that the Austrian troops
have made considerable progress in recovering
the country by force ; that ilie Revolution is no
longer countenanced, either openly or lecretlv,
by Prullia and Holland ; and that the people, as
is usual, whenever they arc opprefled, hating
their present masters more than their formei ,ai e
very generally difpofcd to facilitate the prog.e.s
of the Atiftrians. n
The Clergy finding Leopold difpolcd to rcitoie
to them their ancient ufurpacioiis ovei the mini s
and property of the people, are inclined to ac
knowledge his lovcreignty. Tl.'s restoration "
the ancient constitution is indee i flipula«.ea, in.
it is much to be feared that the people will dep
rive little advantage from it, whatever the . n
tocracy and tlieClergy may do,—lr is uill ulor< :
to be feared, that the AuArian troops, in .. unen
by the rancour which civil war never tails 10 in
spire, will not conduct themselves, whan 1 w 'l , .°."
lefl'ed of the cduntry, with the moderation wine 1
the interest of the King and the fufety of ihe peo
ple equally require. . .
At all events, the proud column ot Keig.i
depcndcnce must fall, and 011 tb" I pot wlic.
ilood may be inferibed : —
" What the Spirit of Liberty was nobly '"rm^,,
the S')ii it of Snperttition levelled with the du.t.
There was a ilrong report yesterday at the
Weft end of the town, of an unavoidable rapture
between this country and France, who arc 13K
to have it fcriouily in meditation to adhere to
the terms of the Family Compar and support
Spain in her present difpote with this country.
Gen. Bender, the Aaftrian commander, has su
re fled a circular letter to the people of Brabant,
riving themHhe reasons for his acting hitheito
o'.i the defenfive, as it was the wilh ot hismaltei
that 110 injury should happen to the farmeis, be
fore they hid completed their corn hat ve ,
therefore gives them till the ,=th of August to
accept of tlie former propositions, which he lays
the states of Limburgh, Luxemburgh, Ha.nault,
and Flanders, are well difpofcd to agree to ; tu.
if after the above time they perfill in their pre
sent measures, they inuft no indu geiKe
The Auftwan provinces areftiu flucKlM .
the hierarchical tyranny of pretended patr.o.s,
though in reality, bigottod tyrants. 0
cin ue these province* from their present llaverjr,
to restore tln-ir ancient and popular conft.umon
and laws, and to give them a head trom the
of Austria, seems to be the dehgn of his •
Maiefty.—Much as this would tend to the real ad
vantage of the people,weare confidentthat it will
be thwarted by prejudices of the strongest kind,
-in dan oppofuion which force only can subdue.
Whether France will comply with the terms of
thS'ly Compact is not yet certain It is a porn
n f i,re it importance to determine ; it on lucn a
r «*«"rirV-%t,:ch
lofp we (houhl add, that the mo.ne..t Jiw r .cnc
Mi'mbly ae ee to renew the Family Compact,
deftrfv the whole fabric they have been
• -in 1 liv the foundation of civil commo
tions' which will ultimately end in favour of the
King and his &»«»£*• Marfliai) an EnglHh gen- !
C in the service of R"i« a during the Jnte
lle.nan in the the Hloft extraordinary
engagement, 1 V,„ cc i Olt . lie fought ins flap
efforts in oui , when afoldier
till the funk to the v..iter eg
flying to the colours to ft.ike t
soldier dead, and '
lours flying - I,c he unfo'. tuuately found
Trcvanion's flnp, command, and fought
ilead 1 . 1... tll „„gh there are a.
jullly EJin „„j Burl;e, was, on Satnr
"1 ne right lion, t ~e ;!, bcrs to represent
day 1, ft, clcAed one of the .»en 1
j,hc borough Mai ton, 1 11
PARIS, August 19,
PASTORAL LETTER of the BISHOP oj AX-
HAVING been favoured with an exait copy of
the Palloral letter of this celebrated Prelate we
present our readers with a correct tranflnion.
" Michael Francoii Count du Viuiers de Lorry, by
tho Divine Mercy, and the Grace of the Holy
Apostolic See, Bilhop of Angers, and Privy Coun
fellor to the King.
" To the Clergy, Secular, and regular, and to. all
the faithful of our Dioccf —lalvation and the blel'-
sing of our Lord Jelus Chrilt.
" t The Almighty—my dear brethren—who,
from the highelt Heavens, penetrates to the bot
tom of our hearts, has heard the humble prayer
which we addrefled to him in opening the Aflcm
bly ofyourßeprefentatives.
We implored him to shed abroad his lioly Spi
rit in their hearts, and to fill thein with wisdom
and an ardent concern for the public good.
" And it is now incumbent on 11s to return
thanks, that our prayers have been heard.
" You are the defendants of those brave and
generous Frenchmen, who were always celebra
ted for Religion and Patriotifia. A» theinheritors
of their virtues, it is your duty to tranfniit them
topofterity. 111 It met your children in early life,
engraving it on their hearts, that Religion is the
only [olid and unjhaken foundation of glory and true
felicity. Teach them to lifpthe name ot the Cod
of Freedom and the public good ; swear them to be
faithful to the N.:!iou, the Law and the King ; for
this is the oath of a French citizen.
" AiiJ ye, my coadjutors, engaged in thelio
nourable duties of promoting the felicity of the
flocks eiurulted to your care, miyilters of a God
of clemency and jullice, to the fublimicy oi your
precepts unite t lie force of example.
" Read and meditate inceflantly oil the lioly
7ofpe! of Chrilt ;—imitate vourglorious Matter.
" During this ftatc of mortality he evinced a
tender compaifion for the infirmities of mankind. J
He preached peace and concord, the p?.rdon of
injuries, and brotherly love. He fulfilled the
law of Mol'cs, and obeyed the laws of Judea.
" Contemplate, my brethern, this great exam
ple of the pa 11 oral clfice. The blefled Apaftles,
witnefles of his iife and his million, jtri.d in his
steps, and travelled the world to proclaim ta»va
tion by him who died and role again.
" Regard not the lo'fs of temporal affluence.
IVc be futficiintly rich to live, and too rich perhaps to
die
" Submit to Divine Providence ill nM things ;
be faithful to the Nation, the Law, and the King.
•' We have abundant cause to be thankful,and
it is my pleafuve that 7V D ::m be lung in all
cll.urches and chapels in my dioccle, Sunday next,
to nianifeft our gratitude to Almighty God.
" Given at cur Epil'copal Palace at Angeri."
SAVANNAH, Sept. 10.
Last Thursday night, about ten o'clock, at the
house of Michael Huntziiiger, in this city, a quar
rel having arisen between Thomas Delany,taj lor,
and Casper Pauls, butcher, blows ensued, when
they both fell on the floor, and during the ft rug.
ale the latter with a dafp knife wounded the for
mer in the breast and neck, which occasioned his
death in about halfan hour. Pauls leftthehoufe
immediately on stabbing Delany, but was loon
aoorehended and committed to goal. Next day
an inquifttion was held by David Montaign, Eiq.
coroner for this county, when the jury brought
in their verdict, willful murder.
CHARLESTON Sept. 24.
It is faiil Mr, M'G'lliviay intends to academy at or
near Galphintown, for the inft.uflionof young Indians in the arts
and icunccs. ____
NEW-YORK, OCTOBER 13.
By a gentleman from Post St. Vincennes, we
are informed that an army of i joo militia, with
all the continental troops on the frontiers in that
neighborhood, under the command of General
Harmar, were to set off the firft of September
on an expedition into the Indian countty.
Extract oj a tetter from Boftoti, Ofiober. 5.
" It is with peculiar pleasure I inform you,
that yesterday Mr. Am es had a very large major,
itv of the votes of the electors of this town, as
member of the second House of Representatives
of the United States : Tlwre were 1550 voters,
out of which he had 1203. The proportion, in;
his favor in the country towns is equally great..
This federalifm, and consistency of conduct,- js
highly honorary to this metropolis—it teftifies
the fpnfe which the people have of Mr. Ames s
1 civ ices r.nd abilities—and the very large num.:
ter of voters, greater than, almoit ever before
voted for a Rep. efentative, evinces that thepeo,
pie iuftly ettimate the privilege of elections, and
that they consider their delegations to the seder«
al legiilature of the highest imporrance. Mr.
Gerry 1 am informed, is chosen for Middlesex,
and Mr. Goodhue has a full vote in Eflex."
FRICi CUfiREXr.- —PUBLIC SECURITIES, '
" Fl(ISl StTTLIMSKTI life t tifs.
Indents 7/1. * iJ*'.
STATi Sici/'RitSu 8/.
627
CERS.
Contrasting the situation of tlie State#
with that of the whole world beiide, how
eligible does it appear: Great Britain with a debt
of three hundred millions fterl. like a mill-lrone
tiling about her neck, And every refoiirce ot taxa
ion explored and aim oft exliaufted, appears to
lave her fatefufpended on atlioufaiidconnngeii
ies : Anions others, the inoft important is
lurcupon which (he holds her Eaft-lndia ,pollel
ions, one of the most productive fonrces or her
evenue ; this is so precarious, as abfolujely to
lepend 011 the fidelity ot her military ctrabiim.
ncutiu that counrry. If we our eyes to
'Vance,' we behold a mighty nation in an
:ed age, bowed down with infirmities, ami an en.
•Villous debt, struggling with deep rooted preju.
lices, and a despotism, that is interwoven m the
rery texture of the people —and although her en
ightened patriots have performed wonders in
jintiiicipating their country thus far, it appears
hat little lels than a miracle can preserve their
>oliiical Union, without revertingto the firltprin
:iples of civilization, and beginning again dc novo.
Spain appears to be at an interesting crisis—Civil
:ouvulfions impending, and the second edition of
:he French revolution may be hourly expe&ed.
jerinany in addition to the intolerable burden of
r oreign war, is involved in all the horrois of civil
liflention : Harmony, peace and confidence are
ufpended—and without these, all the enjoyments
>f civil and domestic life are at an end. Ruflia
ind Sweden are cutting each otfter's throats.—r-
Turkey is groaning under military exatTtioiis to
'arry on the war againit Austria and Ruflia ;
hefe, in addition to the cruel peace-impositions
>f a despotic government, must fill up the mea
ures ofhuman misery, in that ill-fated empire.
The Italian States are alfotornby internal dtllen
io us, andappear to be on the eve of a revolution.
U1 these circuinftances are lioftile to thathappi
lefs which results froi* good government —they
übvert the principles of the social coinpasft—pro. ,
,ei [y is fct afloat-—and human hope is cut ofF.
The United States on the otheVhand, are by the
iifpenfations of Providence placed at a goodly
distance from all these fcencs of tumult and nn-
Ipry peace reignstriumphant through our coun
ty—arts, agriculture, manufactures and com
merce, under "the loitering hand of the federal
government, are pursued with pleasure, profit
ind iecurity—tlie fcafons (bed their mildest and
most benignant influences 011 our labors—otrr
land yields its encreafe—the .exuberance of our
fields are transported to distant regions—while
the produce of every el'tne is wafted to our lliores
every man enjoys in security the fruits of Ms
industry—nor is there " any one t» annoy, or tnakt
•is afraid." ■ . e e
We are sorry to mention the unhappy fate of
L h c of Shelburr.e, Capt. Cook, who left this
port last week, laden with staves and horses.—
According to the account given by the crew who
•scaped the dreadful difalter : They soon after
eaving Sandy Hook fuffered for some hours a very
evere gale, in which they were thrown on their
jeam ends—and while in this situation the wind,
vard cattle, &c. left their ltation, and fell to the
eeward ; which not only deterred her from right.
ng, but brought her so low as to admit the water
nat the cabin-door—lhe quickly filled—and in
;hat situation tlie crew left her. All the hands
ivere saved excepting Capt. Cook, who was asleep
n the cabin—of whom they can give no further
iccount. Ncvj"lCofk Packet*
Among a number of patriotic toasts drank by the Bucks focie.
y the 29th ult. at Richmond, Virginia, are the following
10. The Adventurous and Patriotic Eastern Merchants who
lave gWioufly opened a trade betwfen the flourtfhing Slates of
Vmerica and ihe numerous nations of the South Seas.
14. Oui Indian Allies, and may their moral Virtue increase
vith their Civiliartcm.
£3" The pu/'.ic is refpecijulh informed, thai the next number of the
Gazette of the United States, mil be publijUed in Philadelphia—on, or
before the firjl IVednefday in Ncvmber next.
Subjcriptions in this city mill be. received by Mr. Prosper Wet
more, at the Pofi-Office \ fubferibers at a dijlance will greatly oblige
the Editor by a punctual dtfeharge of arrearages, at this cxpenfive crjjis
i f hts business \ those at the Eajlward and Northward willpleafc to for
ward them to Mr. Wet mo re as above—free oj pojlage.
GEOKGIUS R.
GEORGIUSTERTIUS Dei Gratia Magna: Biitannix, Frtn-ia
ct Hibcrhix Rex, Fidel Defenfor Dux Brunfvicenfis ct Lu
neburgenfis, Sacri Romani Imperii Archi-Tiiefaurariu* eft Prin
ce ps KleAor, &c. Omnibus et Singulis ?d Quos Piasfenrrs hs
Liter&c pcrvencrint Salutem ! Cum 1-idclis it Dilc£tus Nobis
Johannes Temtle Baronncttus, Consul Nofter Generalis apud
Ordjnes Americanos Fa;dcratos, Noftra nunc Domuni
rediturus fit ; quo iter conftitutum re£lfc commodcque pro mune
ris fui Dignitatc conficere poflit Omnes etSingulos, Reges, Princi
pefque. tarn ECcLfiatticos quam Seculares, Status, Relpublicas.et
liberas Civitatcs, Aniicos Noftros et F«cdcratos, ncc non Provincii
rum Gubcrnatores, Claflium at que Exercituum Prsefeftos, Urbiana
Arciumque Cuftodes, omnes denique slios rpforum Miniftios live
Oiliciales cujufcunque Condition!* et Ordin.s fint, amice benevo-
I leque rogaudos effe duximus (id quod fubditjs übique Noftris quo
rum ullo modo interefle potent fn mitei pel Ptapfentes injungimus)
ut prxfato Nollro Confuli General una cum Famulitio Sarciuifque
fuisquibusf.unque, non folum übique Locorum liberam et fecyram
cmldi, transeundi, rcdeundi comuiorandiquc prout libitum crit
Poteftztem faciant, neque aliquam Moram lmpeditumve injiciant
autinjici patiaytur, fed etiam cundem omnibus Humanitatis et be
nevolcntia; Officiis excipia%t ndjuventque et novisporro falvi Con
duftus Litctis, (i ufus ita tulerit, comrauniant, quod quidem NO3
pari oblata Occaiionc arnoscemus ct ttudiofe lependi curabimus.
DABANTURin Palatio Noftro Divi Jacobi Decimo Die
Mcnfis Julii Anno Domini 1790, Regnique Noftri Tnces
* inoo. Ad Mandatum SercniJlimi Domir s i Regis.
LEEDS. "
Sir Jf -,hn Ttmplit Bart. P»ft,*
iROM THE. MASSACHUSETTS SPY.
Mr. Thomas,,
IT was the answer of a certain eminent
when a (Iced by what means he acqi)i,red the
large fortune he was fuppafed to bepoflefled of,
that he had more difliculty in accumulating the
firil three thousand pounds, than all the relt of
his immoderate wealth. ,
This mny be said to coniprife the whole secret
of rifingiu the world ; and although none of the
adepts in the science have yet discovered the le
cret art of puttingthis rule in pra&ice, the indi
gent or unbefriended will find as many difiicul
ties as ever, to retard their progress, and hinder
them from emerging out of their embarrassments;
for it has been obferyed, that the in oil exalted vir
tues, and the brightest accomplilh nents, do no l
find it easy to extricate themselves out ol ditficul
ties ; this the course of human contingencies has
proved true, and daily observation ltainps a fitnc
tityonthe addition.
Perhaps in all our towns, there is fcarccly a man
who cannot in the circle of his acquaintance point
out foine one, puH'elied of extensive capacities,
firong, natural and quick parts, and a delicate
lenfibility and feeling of honor, wh.) are not how.
ever able to rail'e themselves to any coulpicuous
point of eminence, merely because their talents
have not been called forth by oppirtuniy, or
their indigence and ftrairened circumltauces
[which ever are noticed by the world] have pre
vented an animation of their abilities by fnccefs.
To preventgenius from languilhment and decay,
it mult be warmed, nurtured and clierifhed ; the
fine sensations which commonly attend an enlight
ened understanding, will occasion a dclicatc way
of thinking, which will render the podefl'or liable
to a great dejeilaon offpirirs Geniusfhould be
tenderly encouraged,or the cold blasts ofadverficy
and di.'app.iintmeut may chill it, like fruits,which
if not carefully allilted in their vegetation by the
use of hot beds, would wither unripened.
. I waslately readiug the life of that great and
good man, Lord Somsrs ; and I coula not bat.
think, that the circqmftance ef the encourage- j
ment afforded Mr. Addifon, who would hnve ;
remained in alefs coiifpicuous point of view, with
out die afliiiance of such a friend and patron, te ;
fleded the gre.ueft lnftre on (lis chara'^ter.
That vein of humour Which ever was the mod
genteel, would, or at least might, have been tinc
,tured bylowlife ;coarfe and vulgar railing might
,havebeen indulged, in (lea.l of that delicate rail
ery he was pollened of ; and his taste, nniflied and
refined by travel and every other advantage,
might have grown callous and indelicate—,R.i
haldry might have been fubftitnted for thofefen
tinients of morality which served to awaken the
blulh of confufion in the female face, and which
he endeavoured to fet.ofFin the Hailes of nativej
innocence and unaffected beauty ; and his pen
which entertained the world with the molt ele- j
gant specimens of human wit, might have been '
The political tool of party rage, or employed in
perianal inveiftive.
Kis protection prevented his finking into ob.
security, and from neceflitoufly compelled
to fully that fir.je which is now the reward of'his
'performances.
It has been and still is the fate of many, endu
ed with parrs butUttle itiferiour to his, to droop
in indigence; ar.d there are many who might be
come Ihining characters, in any profeiliou, were
there any incitement tofpur" their steed"—
Wit is generally esteemed an objed. of ridicule;
and a narrowness of fortune affol'ds matter of
merriment to those to whom fortune has been
more propitious.
Is a man qualified to aifl well his part in any
particular p'ofefiion, if not befriended by a full
purse, or his situation is in the lead degree era
barrafTed he is fire to be kept in a Itaie of depres
sion, and not permitted an effort to rile in life.
There is scarce any thing in life, to a feeling
mind more affecting,than tofind thatthe insolence
ofpai fe pride is f» prevalent, as to oc. afion scorn
tobebeflowed on indigence; people whoarepof
feiled of affluent fortunes, who have arrived at
the fummitof reputation and wealth, by a fortu
nate series of-fuccefiful efforts, ought to conlider,
that thev betray an unmanly triumph over those
who have flill their fortune to make, when they
attempt, from trivial causes or matter of resent
ment, to disappoint others, or depreciate their
abilities—lt has been observed by the immortal
I'ope, that the world is apt to form an idea of a
man at a ti:;>e when be is lead capable of judging
rightly for himfe,lf— thence we find, many are
ruined by flight errors, trivi;,] imli i'crctions, and
petty inadvertencies, while others owetheir ele
vation to vices, paffians, and a series of felfiih
are generally more fuccefsful than,
jyiode.'ty, a under'.landing, and a spirit above
battery or mean fiib;nii:lon.
Xbpfc who fcc fjniiing ac'tiie goal of fortune,
elevated .abyve iba frowns or famines of life
while oihers arc running tlie hardy eourfe for
wifli to be] might reflect, iliat perfeveiance and
unremitted application maj' reach the point in
which tUey take fucii pride.
"JChc cqnfqquenc'es then'tfillbe obvious, a well
■meant spirited difpolitiou, with the advantages of
;a genteel education and a competent knowledge
•of the world, riiuft receive airi additional I a fire
from wealth ; apd fuchan one's acconvplHhmeiits
will, in their turn, adorn and embellish afflu
ienc^.--Ah J, confeqMently, iinifter views ought
bever to influence .the brealts of any, who have
; it in their power co depress the neceflitous, to add
ito the difficulties which naturally present, by
withholding favours which true bcnevolence
would induce them to bellow, and the bestowal
•of which perhaps might add to the namber ot
■ happy as well as valuable citizens, without doing
| the lead injury to themselves.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, Sep:. 28, 1790.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will be received atthe
Office ot the Secretary of the Treasury, until the 31ft day
of December next inclufive,forthe building of a LIGHT HOUSE,
nearly of the dmien&ons proposed by the late Commiflioneis of
Virginia and Maryland, upon the lot of land on Cape Henry, in
theCbunty ot Princess Ann, and State of Virginia, lately ceded for
that purpose to the United States. It is desired* that the proposals
rmy leave the ele&ion, whether the building above the foundation
(hall be of brick, or (lone, and as the cost and charges of those ma
terials vary, it is expected, that a corresponding difference will be
made in the terms offered.
The foundation of the Light-House is to be of stone, and funk
to the depth of thirteen feet below the water table, over the top of
which the pavement is to be laid. The diameter thereof is to be
twenty seven tect fix inches, with a vacancy of about nine feet in
the ccntre.
The diameter ofthe base isto be twenty fix feet, at which place
the thickness of the walls is to be fix feet. The height from the
bottom of the water table to the top of the stone work is to be se
venty two feet,wherethe diameter istobefixteen feet fix inches,aud
the thickness of the walls three feet. The form is to be an o&agou,
having three windows in the east, and four in the weft. If it be
built of brick, it is to be faced with the glafly kind, if of Hone, it
is to be faced with hewn or hammer-dreiled stone.
On the top ofthe stone work is to be a floor of joists, bedded
therein, planked over and covered with copper, extending about
two feet eight inches beyond ihe wall, thereby forming an eve,
which is to be (lniftied with a cornice, the whole having a descent
from the centre fufiicient to throw off the water.
The lanthorn is to be supported by eight polls of wrought Iron
of three inches square and twenty feet in length, ten feet of which
are to be wrought into the stone wall on the inner part ?t each
corner. The diameter of it is to be ten feet, leaving a platform on
the oufide thereof of about fix feet in width. All the work abo\e
this is to be of iron and copper. The lanthorn is to be ten feet
high, having a feinicircular roof of five feet more( with iron raft
ers covered with copper. The whole space between the posts sup
porting the lanthorn, is to be occupied by the falhes, which air
to be made of iron, rah fafli is to have twenty-eight panes «>f
glass, twelve by fourteen inches. One of the fafties on the fotrh
weft fide is to be hung with hinges for a door to go out upon the
platf.'rm, from the outer part of which to the roof of the lanthoi n
isto be a frame of iron covered with a net work of strong braf*s
wire, to prefcrve the glass from injuries by hail and flights of
birds in the night.
The rafters of the lanthorn are to be wc!! faftened to an irpn
hoop, over which is a copper funnel, through which the fmokc
may pass into a large copper ventilator in the form of a man's
head, capable of containing one hundred gallons. This head is to
be so placed as to be turned by a large vane on the spire above ir,
that the hole for yeutirg the fmokc may always be to the leeward.
Eight dormant ventilators of fix inches diameter are to be fixed,
in the roof of the lanthorn.
A close stove is to be provided and fixed in the lanthorn, which •
is to be furnifhed with eight lamps, each capable of containing fix
quarts, hung in two tiers over each other transversely. There ar<-
to be fix flights of (lairs to ascend to the lanthorn, the entrance to
which i;s to be by a door covered with copper. The building is
to be furnifhed with two conductors, to secure it from the eftefis
of lightning.
A frame houfc is to be built for the keeper, twenty feet fquarr,
two stories high, with a frame kitchen ; the whole to be finiftied
with lath and plaifter.
A vault for the storage and fafe keeping of the oil is to be built
of (lone at a convenient distance, twelve feet wide, and twenty in
length. It is to be arched, and covered with earth m sand, over
which a shed is to be built, and it is to be furnifhed with eight
ftrong cedar ciftcrns with covers, each capable of containing two;
hundred gallonls of oil. The entrance isto be secured by a strong,
door.
Good security for the faithful performance of the contrast will
be expe&ed. Payments on account will be made at proper sta
ges of the work, and the balance will be paid on its completion .
or, if a suitable difference should be made in the terms, cash will
be advanced for the purchase of materials and provisions..
CdT The Printers in the several States are requeued to insert this.
By Order of the Honorable Richard Morris, Esq. Chief Juflice of the
State of New-York. j
NOTICE is hereby given to Lewis M'Donald,of Connecticut,
an absent debtor, that upon application and due proof made
to the said chief iuftice by a creditor of the said Lewis M'Donald,
pursuant to an at\ of the Legiflaturc of the said State, entitled.
" An a6> for relief against abfeonding and absent debtors," pass
fed the 4th April, 1786; he, the said chief justice, has directed
all the said Lewis M'Donalds eilate, within this State, to be seiz
ed, and that unless he shall discharge his debts within twelve
months after the publication of this notice, the fame will be folc
for the payment of his creditors. Dated ihc 3d May, 1790.
New-York, May y t 1790, (iw. iy.)
TO BE LET
y
On very low terms—and < entered upon immediately. until the firfi o /
May next.
THAT elegant new TWO STORY BRICK HOUSE, in iht
Bowery-Lane, formerly occupied by Robert Gilbert
Livingston, decqafed ; it has ftven Fiie Places wiih a goofl
Cellar under the whole Houie-—a convenient out-Houfe in thfc
r.ai, with a Coach-House, and Sialics ; for further particulars cn-
_ MANGLE MIXTHORN
(2 M'. t. f.)
The Mail Diligence,
FOR PIULADLLriIIA,
T iy . /K 6 ' , y*^ a i r ®f at New-York, Ten minutes after
-I~i o'clock, every morning cxccpt Sunday.
5 .'age Of f ic-e;' C Hy J oven:; )
Jh<jiid-I! u)\ A cu:-Yvrk "jfuve I*9o. )
to™ Dr. -Price's Rivdniic:: Ssrmon may be hod if
t'~c Fail or. Pries 1/7.
628
Corporation Dock
cvßßEitr*-*~jigr-mK:i : u -
J>o. pa inch do. iJ r fix ? '
Do. 18. inch do. 1
Butt white oak flakes;' Sgf- <.i
Pipe d«. do. gt. ; V»r tr ,
Hogflyad do.-do. cfllffdK -■ {
Do. do. heading, M, ~7: ' .
. Irilh barrel do. flavra, £.
Hogthoad red oaV. in. s- &f.
Do. French drt. cl. ■ -
- Ho<*ftiead hoops, i|li '
Whiteiak. square tiimljer )r - , v .
per square foot, . 10 ;
Red wood, per lon, jßi.
Fufticfc, :o!.
SeaVer, per !b. lrf. t igfi
O't r per {kin, gf. ja/-
Greyfox, 7 . , *
Martin, 4/: 0.
Racoon, g/6aj/6.
■ Mufkrat, lod. a ni.
Beiver hats, 64/. "
Callor do. jfif. , .
Chocolate, iarf. v
Coco - *, jcf. a 8->£ *1
Cotton, ifc. |
Tar, pr. bar. 16/. ■ j
Eilch, 1 ~, |
Turpentine, 2IJ. e %%{. \ I
Totacco,James Riv;ei, ]
Do. York, 4d. * j
I Do. Rapjjahanock, erf't
Do. Maryland,coloured, yjji j
I Do. Weftern-jhorf, id a jUd.
Lead in pigs, pr cwt, 60/f j
Drt. hars, 68f. }
Do. Shot, -5 / J
Red lead, 68/. i
White do. dry, ;
White do. in oil, rj. i«f. |
Salt-petre hams, 'J
Spermaceti candles, 3J. » "
Mlulddo. 1 \d. a tj.
Tallow dipt, 10i.
Soap, s d. a Sd.
Castile fojp, gd. a tqi.
£ngli(h checfe, pr. Ib. ij#.
Country do. $dr 6J.
Butter, io</.
Hyson tea, 9[..
Sequin do. 6/t>.
Bohca do. 2/8.
Ginseng, of. a ifib.
Staich Poland, Bd..
SnutF, ?/j.
Allum fait, water mea- ) »
sure, pr. bulK J "
Liverpool do. !-J.
Madeira wind, > 60/ . a
pr. j»*p C , J ,
Port, sa/.
Lisbon, pr. gal. tJ6-
Tcneriff, 4/2.
Jy«». 3/3-
Sper/naceti do, 6/.
Shake-down hhds. gf6
Dutch g«npbwdcr,pr.cwt. 160/ I
Vail rods, pr. ton, «(RL—
.intfocd oil, pr. gal. $J.
Vhale do. pr. barorl 50/]
TRICt
ouob.
1 AaIAICA Spirits,s/6.
Antigua Ram, 4 jj, a 5/
St. Croix, do. 4JB.
Country, d<>. ,3/^.
MMilrey, «/o.
% Brandy, 7/.
G;ncv?,
Do. in cases, 30^
Mufcovad ) Sii faV, <* 7*/■
Loaf, d'j. 1/3-
Lump, do. i/i|.
Pepper, 2/10.
Pimento, 2/!
Coffee, 1/3. 1/4.
tndigo, (Carolina) 6f.
Do. Frcu b, 18/. 10f.
Rice, *z6f.
Superfine flour, 52/ I
Common do. 44 f.
Rye do. a °%f
Indian Meal, 18\f. 2of.
Rye, 5/ ]frr.
Wheat, 6/8. a 7/.
Corn, (Southern) 3/6.
Do. (Northern,) 4/!
Beef, lirft quality, ijof.
Pork, firft quality, 105JI
Oats, if 2.
Flax-fec<f, 4/6.
; Ship bread per cwt. 81/ I 24/
Countrv rciiucd > g,_
bar-Mon, ) 0
Do. HloomerV, a6l.
Swedes do. 45!.
riufHa do. 301.
Pig-iron, xof. a 91.
German steel, Q«.per lb.
Nails American, by cask. ) 14d.
per. ;b. 4d. )
Do. do. do. 6d. 12d.
Do. do. do. Bd. 9\d.
Do. do. do. iod."}
Do. do. do* l'2d.( . . ,
Do. do. do. a0d.r 7^655
Do. do. do, 24d.)
Pot alb, per tor,, 401. 1.
Pearl alb, 571.
Rees-wax per lb. 2/2.
Mackaiel per barr. s6/T a 30/
Herrings, 18\f.
Mahogany, Jamaica, ) ,
per loot, I loj -
Dominico, do. qd.
Honduras, do. fd. 81.
Logwood unchipped,pr.ton.
Do. chipped. 141.
? inch white oak ) , r
plank, perm. J lOl " 10 /
1 inch do. 51.
2 inch white pine plai;£, 81.
1 3 inch do. 6!. 10f.
1 inch do. 31. 10f.
2 inch pitch pine do. 10!.
11 inch do. 61. 10f.
1 inch do. 4
Pitch pine scantling, 31.
Cyprus 2 feet fhirtgles, 11.
D«>. 22 inch do. il. Sf.
Cedar 2 inch do. il. 10f
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, July 13, 1790.
NOTICE IS hereby green, that Proposals will be received at the office
of the Secretary of the Treasury, to the firfl day of 08 ober next in
clufve, for the fapply oj all rations, which may be required for the ufeof
the United States, from the frfl day as January to the thirty firfl day of
December 1791, both days inclufie, at the places, and within the diftriflr
herein after mentioned, viz.
At any place or places, betwixt Yorktown in theflute cf Pennflvania t
arid Fort Pitt and at Fort Pitt,
At any place or places, betwixt fort Pitt and fort hVlntofh, on the
River Ohio. and al Fort M'lntofh.
At anyplaceo r plwes, betwixt Fort M'lntofh and the mouth of the Ri
ver Mufkingvm, and at the mouth of the River Mujhingum.
.it any place or places, betwixt the mouth of the River MuJkingirm, aid
up the said River to the Tufarowas, and at the Tufiarowas, and thence
over to the Cayoga River and down the said River to its mouth.
At anyplace or places, betwixt the mouth of the liver Mu/kingum, raid
the mouth of the Scioto River, and at the mouth of the said RiverScioto.
At any ptkc cor placet, betwi xt the mouth of Scioto River. and the mouth
of the great Miami at the mouth of the great Miami, and from thence to
tne Rapids, on the Falls of the Ohio and at the fa-d Rapids.
ar, y ft ace or pieces, betwixt the mouth of the great Miami, np -the
aid Miami, to and at fiquctown, and thence over to the Miami Village s
on the river of the J.nr.e name which empties ivto Lake Erie.
At any place or places from the rapids of the Ohio, to the mouth of the
a ™fh> tftence up the fetid Wabafh to Pojl St. Vincermes, at Pofi St. Vin
cennes, and thence up the said river Wabifh, to the Miami Village, be
fore deferibei. ■ J J \ 6
At any place or places J rom the mouth of the Wabafh river to the mouth
of the river Ohio.
At any place or places, on the eaflfide of the river Mijifippi, front the
mouth of the Ohio river, to the mouth of the Illinois river.
At anyplace or places, from the mouth of the Miami river to the Miami
V tllajre.
Atany place or places y from the Miami Village to Sandufky, and at
Sandujky, and jrom Sandu/hy to the mouth of Cayog« river.
At any place or places, oetwixt Fort Pitt aud Venango, and at Venango.
At any place or places, betwixt Vcnango and Le Beuf and at.Le Bxuf
betwixt Le Beuf ami nnd Prefq'lJle, at Prefq'lflcy and betwixt Prefq'
JJlc and the mouth of Cayoga river.
At the mouth of Cayoga river, and at any place or places, on the rout
from Fort Pitt, to the mouth of Cayoga river, by the way of Big Beaver
creek. '
At any place or places, on the eajl fide of the MijMppi, between the
mouth of the Ohio andthe river Margot inclusively.
At any place "or places, from the hid river Marmot, to the fiver Yazous
inclusively. °
At any place or placesfrom the mouth of the river Tcnnefce, toCiochap
po or Hear cteck y on tke said river inclusively.
Should any rations be required at any places, or within other dipitls,
notfpecif'd in the/efropofals,theprice of the fame tobt hereafter agieei
on, betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be fupptied are to conffl of the following articks, vm
One pound of br eid or flour.
One pound of beef or -J of a pound of pork,
Haifa jill of rum, brandy or whifi)'
One quait of fait, }
Two quarts of vinerar. f .
Two founds offoeb, ( <"*■
One pound oj Candles, J
Thefropojals miiftfpecifythe hwrjl price per ration. Kt credit is >''•
P" r «<- ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of tkt Tr:sf*rU