[No. XXXVII.]
THE TABLE T.—No. XXXVII.
(cONTI NU ATION.)
« Innumerable causes confptre to divide and agitate
the public mind\"
IF some intelligent being, unacquainted with
human affairs, and yet capable of forming
definite from language, were to hear the
conversation of a promiscuous croud of people,
he would have no conception that they were in
habitants of the fame world, or that they had any
similarity of principles or feelings. While one
ffl au would represent to him, a very virtuous and
flourifliing Itate of society, another would exhibit
on ]y the dark shades of the picture, and lead him
I 0 imaoine that he had entered upon a scene of
difcorcf, misery and vice.
After some experience however he would find
ou t, that these contradidory mortf.ls, who talked
fodifferently, approached nearer to each other in
v j e ws and sentiments, than appearances indica
ted. A great part of the clamours of one set of
men anil the applauses of another, are mere fay
iinrsof course, that are uttered without any deter
minate meaning. The good humored and fortu
nate among mankind represent the community
better than it is ; and the morose and ill-fated
run into the contrary extieme. One praises the
world and the other condemns it, pretty much
according to the fare they have met with, in their
through it. If we could analyze the mo
tives'from which they ad:, and try their condud
by any intrinsic standard, we ihould not find their
real intentions so unlike as their words. He who
reprobates the government is not perhaps itsene.
niv, and he who flatters it, is not always its friend.
The OLher evening, I was in company, where
the conversation turned upon politics. It hap
pened as is usual in such companies, that two or
three men did molt of the speaking. The two
wliodiftinguifliedthemfelveson the occasion were
P ACiDDsandlGNATius. There seemed to be a
difference of opinion refpeding the public mea
fttres of the day. Ignatius lpoke like a man of
much bitterness of spirit, and nothing escaped the
darts of his spleen and severity. The new con
flicution, he said, was only a scheme of the great
and artful to ensnare, the common people, and
gradually take away their liberties. As soon as
the planners of it had provided well for them
selves and friends, we should hear no more about
tlie public welfare. The onlyftruggle then will
be, who ihall get the mod, and perform the leall.
Piacidds had quite another way of thinking.
He appearedfatisfied that the si amersof the COll
- had the liberties and happiness of the
community at heart. Great and final] are all em
barked in the fame bottom, and must Hand or fall
together. The principles on which the govern
ment is eftablilhe 1 a e not unfavorable to the
rights of man, and we shall continue to be blefled
with able and virtuous rulers. He disapproved
of the ill-nature discovered by his neighbour,
aud said it orginated only in jealousy. But 1G N
tius was the molt plausible, and his remarks
gained mod attention. I have observed him fe
deral times in the streets, and he generally has a
crowd of people about him, whom he will poifou
with his envy and discontent, unless they are
taught to be on their guard against his insinuations
and complaints.
It would be a good rule for every individual,
when he hears private or public men slandered or
condemned, to enquire into the charader of the
perlons who thus find fault. I took this method,
and am now proof againlt the secret whispers, or
openclamours of Ignatius. He is nota man of
nuch property, and therefore has little to fear
from public commotion. He does not pollefs con
siderable knowled e, and therefore can be no ac
'urate judge of political propriety. lie has no
friends in important offices, and therefore is not
without some envy and prejudice. lam told that
Ignatius will not utter palpable fallhoods, and
'tat in his private concerns, he oblerves foine ho
nesty and fairnefs. But he is constantly out of
temper with public affairs, and endeavors to make
his neighbours as reltlefs and petulentas himfelf.
''ewifhes to save some appearance of charader,
aill i this makes him the more dangerous. In (hort
is the perpetual marplot of men, who are try
ing tolead a quiet, contented life.
The tranquility of the public is liableto a thou
wdcauses of interruption. It mult be supposed
j.* the vulefs of the people participate of the
,' me frailties and imperfedions, as the people
,lci,l felves pofleis. Ignatius* avails himfelf of
little miltakes and inadvertencies, and repre
' 11 s them in glaring colors, while he artfully
all meritorious adioiis. Jealousy is so
j jilt able a spring of the foul, that such men, keep
, e public mind in fluduation and alarm. Ihe
■"'ends of good order and virtue fliould watch and
c °anterad all their attempts.
WEDNESDAY, August 19, 1739
If people would use the fame common sense in
judging of public measures, as they do in their
common concerns, these clamorous men would
have no influence.
One inuft conclude that the virtuous feelings
are mild and conciliating, and that bustle, and a
captious disposition are no pledges of patriotism.
Our government has commenced in prosperity,
and there are no special circumstances which at
present threaten to disturb it. But as our citizens
are composed of the fame ingredients as other
people, it is well to anticipate the sources of dif
quietude and complaint, from which no portion
of the human race can be long exempted.
EXTRACT OF A LETTER.
WEIGHTS.
THE grain is the basis of the weights used
in Europe ; and a pound weight is generally there
used. Divisions of pounds and ounces into fourths,
&c. are inconvenient fractions that accident seems
to have produced, and habits hftve continued a
mong the old nations ; but which America is in
the fined situation to avoid, and to give a pre
ference to the more fnnple and harmonious divi
sions in tens.
The French have their pound of 16 ounces, or
2 marcs ; the marc being equal to 8 ounces ; the
ounce 8 grois ; the gross 3 penny weights ; the
penny weight S4 grains : with thafe are weighed
gold, and other fine articles. Another pound
weight they have for less valuable commodities :
it is divided into half pounds ; the half pound
into quarters ; the quarter into eights ; theeighihs
into 2 ounces ; and the ounce into half ounces.
The Engilh have their grains, fcrupfes, drams,
ounces, pounds, quarters, quintals, and tuns.
Their pounds is divided into 4ths, 3ds See. as are
their ounces. Tables of their weights follow :
" A table of the pound troy and its parts ; by
" which gold, silver, jewels amber, bread, corn,
" liquors, &c. are weighed ; and by which the
" proportion of gravity in philosophical experi
" ments is usually tried ; as of water to quick
" silver, gold to silver," &c. accerding to Eng
lish writers : yet, that avoirdupois (their laige
weight) is sometimes used in these cases, the ta
bles of fpccific gravity in Robertfon's mensura
tion, Fergufon's ledtures, the late Dispensatories,
&c. and corn, we know, is weighed by avoirdu
pois—not by troy weight.
Grains.
24 | Pennyweight.
480 | 20 | Ounces.
5760 | 240 | 12 | Pounds.
" A table of such parts of a pound troy, as
" apothecaries use ; commonly called /4pothica
" ries weight."
Grains.
20 1 Scruple.
60 | 3 | Dram.
480 | 24 | 8 | Ounce.
j 760 | 288 | 96 | 12 | Pound.
" A table of the pound called Avoirdupois, and
" its parts ; by which are weighed drugs, but
ter, meat, grocery, metals, &c.
Drams.
16 oz.
_____ C This lb. contains
256 16 lb. I 7000 grains.
7168 448 28 qr
28672 1792 112 4 cwt
-573440 35840 2240 80 20 tun.
These are the weights that have hitherto lerv
ed us in America, coi/iflex as they are ; and the
tables of them are here given, that we may the
better fee how preferable arc the weights now to
be proposed. The denominations of troy, apo
thecaries and avoirdupois pounds, aredi opt. One
only weight, with its parts, is retained ; wlucli
is the American pound. Excepting gi ains and
half tuns, all run in tens. The grains begin
the table, with 70 to the net weight, called a
prime (or what you please.) The quantity of
the grain is not to be altered from what it always
was, and the mint pound is mod conveniently to
be continued the lame as the old common pound
of 7000 grains.
rPublijhed on Wcdnefday and Saturday.~]
A Table of Weights, proposed, for the United
Grains States of America :
yo Prime. The firft that runs into tens.
700 10 Ounce.
7000 zoo 10 Pound.
70000 ioqo 100 ic Demif ore.
700000 10000 1000 100 10 Cwt.
7000000 iqoooo 10000 iogo 100 10 | half tun.
The grain, the prime, the ounce and the
pound, will be used for gold and fine things.
Course goods will require nothing below ounces.
Work the sums in whole numbers ; when dots
will divide the quotient into pounds, ounces, &c.
If you have the quantities already divided, write
or read the sum without dots, for reducing them
to futtle weight ; thus :
aC. 2ds. albs. 2oz. are 2222 oz. and 2222 oz.
10 are 2C. 2ds. 2lbs, 20Z.
22
10
222
10
2222 Proof.
It is not meant but that the common fractions
maybe used at pleasure of individuals : but, the
public ltandard, will hold out more commodious
fractions, which the people will soon prefer to
the old fractions in common use.
H. t. C. ds. lbs. oz.
Add 28646
42463
71109
What is the futtle? Omit the dots: it is
711090 Z. or in lbs. 7uolbs. 9 oz.
ds. lbs. oz. ds. lbs.
Multiply 6 4 6by j 2
S 2
1292
5230
33590
Which, being dotted ■off, makes 33c. jds. 91b.
2oz.
Divide by jds. alb.) 33.5.9.2 (646; that is
6ds. 4lbs. 6oz.
The whole operation in addition ; multipli
cation and division, is exa<ftly as if the sums were
in whole numbers. If the dots confufe any one
who is unacquainted with decimal operations, I
advise that he write the figures down without
dots, thus: ah.t. BC. 6ds. 4lhs. 6oz. are, without
dots, 28646, t hat is so much futtle in the lowest
denomination of the sum, which here is ounces :
then fay:
28646 oz.
42463
. 7110 9 .... , <
This total is divided into several denominate
ons wanted, by the application of dots ; begin
ning with the unit: 71C. ids. olbs. 90Z. So in
division 52)33592(646: all which, when dotted
off, is thus, sds. 2lb. )33C. sds. 91b. 20z.( 6ds.
4lb. 6oz.
I hope to be excused for these minute observa
tions, as they are designed to reconcile those
who are not informed in such arithmetical ope
rations. Anyperfon who can read sums in figures,
can change the higher weights into lower,or lower
into higher, by the use of dots, applied or with
drawn : always dotting off from the right hand
to the left.
The pound is the most convenient for an ac
count column. Its parts in the fame column, di
vided off by a dot, are ounces, thus : 48h.t. 6C.
4ds. 2lb. 6oz. are carried into the account column
6oz. In my next I intend fending you
a trcatife on the bulhel measure.
NEW-YORK, AUGUST 17.
The following is an account of the. elevation of the
Mercury, in a Thermometer accurately graduated
according to Farenheit's scale, in this city.
ON the 7th inft. the Mercury stood at Bo° at
two o'clock, p. M.
On the Bth ditto 80 ditto.
9th ditto 82 ditto.
loth ditto 84 ditto,
nth ditto 8 J ditto.
12th ditto 85 ditto.
13th ditto 83 ditto.
14th ditto 88 ditto.
15th ditto 8 J ditto.
16th ditto 84 ditto.7HE BOW.
AN African Prince subdued in balr.le, capi
tulated for his bow and bauble bought
his life. A British merchant sent hiin to South-
Carolina, where he was used as a Have. A pla
cid countenance, and fubmiffivemanners, mark
ed his resignation ; and preserved him in all si
tuations, the pofieflion of his arms—the only com
panions he had left—the sole objetfls of his affec
tions. His ftatelinefs and strength recommended
him to Colonel Mott, a humane master, in whose
service he died, in ftedfaft faith of a certain re
surrection in his native slate.
The bow and quiver were preserved as relicts
of a faithful slave, in the Colonel's family, who
gratefully remember the services, the fortitude,
and the fidelity of the trufly, the gentle lambo.
In the campaign of 1781, the "widow of Co
lonel Mott, (who died a patriot) was banilhed
from her house, on the river Congaree, then for
tified by a Britilh garrif'on ; the garrison was
besieged by a small detachment from the Ameri
can army, whose approaches were soon within
bow-shot. The widow, who lived in a cottage in
light of the fort, was informed that the preserva
tion of her house was the only impediment to its
reduction—and she was informed of the expedi
ents proposed.—Here, said she, (presenting the
African bow and quiver) are the materials—lam
bo never used these arrows and I fear they arepoi
foned; use them not, tlierefone, even againll
your enemies—but take the bow, any arrow will
■waft a match. Spare not the house, so you ex
pel the foe. The blazing roof produced submis
sion—the Britons dropped their arms—the Ame
ricans entered the house, and both joined to ex
tinguish the flames.
Ihe misfortunes of a Prince, and the heroinn
of a lady, are not uncommon—the novelty is the
Bow—a Item of genuine bamboo—which, defi
ned for the defence of Liberty in Africa, served
the fame cause in America, was preserved by an
officer of the patriot army—presented to Mr.
PEALE, and is now deposited in his Museum.
LONDON, MAY 28.
BY EXPRESS FROM PARIS.
1 his expre f s contains an account of the de
bates of the meeting of the States-oeneral. The
relult is, that the clergy are iitgacious and mo
derate, that the commons are Itarcled at the view
of their own importance, and only want the ex
perience of a people already free, to give them
a dextrous command of their rights as I'ubjects.
All however, l'eem to agree in a pofuion, once
laid down by a celebrated writer of our own—
a position which cannot too often be repeated,
or wiitten in Ictte s too large or conspicuous,
" THAT THE PEOPLE SHOULD Bh FREE."
T he nobility evidently proceeded ftepby step,
with an ungracious distrust, in order to preserve
thole preferences which had been already given
in their favour. Mobs have been formed in some
places, and the townsmen have been wbliged to
protect their villages from si. e ; one of tlieir of
ficers I'peaks thus: " We arrived with a guard,
and were received by 80,000 people in confufion
of tears and applause, clapping their hands, and
crying, ' Godfave the king and Monlxeur Cara
ma.ll; jhis was indeed a triumphal entry ; never
was a people more affectionate and fubmiflive.
The General had left the army without, and
only entered the city with his two aid-du-camps.
We will venture to add to the above, with
that precaution which distinguishes our paper,
that the dauphin of France is not yet dead, how
ever strongly it may have been reported.
On the 13th inltant the Sultan, attended by
"11 the Grandees, went on liorfeback to the
mosque of Elub, where the ceremony of girding
on the Imperial Ciinitar was performed with
the usual pomp, amidst a great concourse of peo
ple. In the proceflion from the seraglio through
the city, a sum of money to the amount of fif
teen thousand pounds in small lilver pieces,
loaded on ten mules, was thrown amongst the
populace ; and what has not always been the
cafe on similar occasions, no one 101 l his life in
the scramble. His highness returned by water
flown the harbour, and was saluted by all the
skips as well Cliriftians as Turks. The firft en
tertainment given by the sultan was a tourna
ment, as more coi.fiftent in time of war than
music and daticing.
June 7. Seltm the third, the present Grand
•Seignior, has had an education very different
from that of his predeceflors, for which he was
indebted to his late uncle; he speaks French
and Italian decently, and has read the belt works
i:i both languages; but he is more particularly
acquainted with European tacftics, which he was
taught by a French officer of great ability. He
has often been heard to declare that it was the
duty of the Emperor of the Turks, to be at the
head of his army, and from thence it is conclud
ed, that he will not derogate from the Ottoman
race.
June 8. An unexpected change in the min
istry has taken place ; Lord Sydney has retired
from the office of secretary of Hate for the home
department. He attended the council yesterday
at Kew palace, wlierfc herefigned. His lordship
is appointed one of the chief juitices, in Eyre,
the profits of which are reckoned at 3006 a year.
Mr. Grenville, the speaker of the house of
commons, appointed to lord Sydney's place,
yesterday a(fted in that capacity. Mr. Henry
Addington, member for the Devizes is chosen
speaker.
Mr. Richard Fold, of Birmingham, has very
lately presented to the Society of Arts, an ellay,
in which he points out a method, demonstrated
by a variety of fuccefsful experiments, that
horses may be inocidated for the strangles, with
the fame certainty of success that the human
fpeeies are for the small-pox
We are sorry to inform our readers, that last
night the beautifid edifice of the opera house
was burnt to the ground. We happened to bep re
sent when the fire burst out, and mult declare that
we never law any thing comparable to the rap
idity with which it spread itfelf. It broke forth
from the three domes of the roof, at one and
the fame instant, and in less than three minutes
the whole building was an entire Hame ; there
were neither water nor firemen to interrupt its
progress, and in a quarter of an hour the whole
was totally demolilhed.
The flames fpiead to the adjoining houses,
seven of which were deflroyed, and the fire
reached to the entrance into Pall-mall, but did
not go up the Haymarket.
Extract of a letter from Conflantinoplc, dated A
pril 20.
" All the proportions for peace, renewed
under the preient reign by the two courts of
Bourbon, have been rejected, the Sultan having
declared that he has taken an oath to re-conquer
the Crimea, so that without the preliminary res
titution of that peninsula all proposals are vain."
PARIS, JUNE 4.
IHs royal hignefs the dauphin died between
twelve and one o'clock this morning, in the
eighth year ol his age, to the great grief of
their moll Chi iftian majesties and the royal fami-
The dauphin was in his eighth year; for
four of which he has been alnioft constantly af
flicted with diseases which baffled the art of the
fi-ft physicians, and have now terminated in his
difiolution. His royal highnefs's remains will
be interred in the burying place of the Kings
of France, in the (huvch of Notre Dame in Pa
ris. All the public places ofamufement are shut
up, and will remain so till after his burial. The
Due de Normandie, the now only son of his
Most Christian Majelty, is a fine child about five
years old, and bids fair to become in due time
the king of France.
The present heir apparent of the crown of
"ranee, and Maria Therefe Charlotte, born
December 19, 1778, are the only remaining chil
dren of their Moll Christian Majesties.
NEW YORK.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of Rt PRESE N TAT IVES of the UNITED
STATES.
FRIDAY, AUCUST 14, 1789.
Sk tch of the Debate on Amendments to the Conjlitution.
In Co mm 1 tt ee of the whole.—The ni ft article of the report be
ing read, Mr. Gerry rose and ohjefted to the sentence, " Go
vernment being intended for the benefit oj the people. 1 *
' I "'HIS, said he, holds up an idea, that all government is intend
-4 ed for the benefit ot the people : This is not true—for if we
examine, we (hall find that not one government in fifty, is confti
tutcd upon this principle. Most of the governments, ancient or
modern, owed iheir existence to either fraud, force or accident,
and are designed for the purposes of opprcflion and persona! am
bition. I wish to have nothing go out from this body as a maxim,
which is not true in fact. He moved to amend the'claufe by in
serting the words "ot right." This motion was negatived.
Mr. Tucker observed, that the preamble is no part of the Con
stitution : The object is to amend the Constitution ; The pream
ble is no more a part of it, than the letter of the President which is
annexed to the Inftrumem—and I cannot fee that the committee
has any ihing to do with it.
Mr. Sumpter moved that the consideration of the preamble
mould bepoftponed till the whole amendments are gone through
and then we lhall know what introduction may be proper. °
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) observed, that the amendments propofedto
the preamble, had been recommended by three Siates, which ren
• ders it proper.
Mr. Page said, that in his opinion the original preamble will
not be altered for the better, by this amendment, and therefore I
'hope it will remain as it is.
Mr. Sherman said he was fatisfied with the original elaufe : If
t e Constitution was a grant from another power it would be pro
per ; but as the right is a natural and unalienable right, and inhe
rent in the people, it is quite unneceflary to give anv reasons for
toi ming the Constitution It is the ast of their own sovereign will
I he words "We the People" contain in themselves the prin
ciple fully, and the alteration propoftd will injure the preamble
Mr. Madison observed, that the proposed amendment is a
truth, and I conceive there is a propriety in inserting it ; besides
jieveral of the States have thought proper to mention the preamble
in their ratifications, which renders it proper to be attended to.
I can lee no difficulty in alTociatiiig the amendment with the pre!
amble, without injuring the beauty or fenfeof the paragraph ■ Th<
principle it is acknowledged on all hands is felf evident and can
derwe no force from thisexpreffion, still for thereafon before fuo.
geited it may be prudent to mfert it. °
The (jueftion 011 this amendment was carried in the affirmative
. Second amendment: From art. ~ fee. 11, par. 3. ftnke out ali
between the word '• direst" and " until such." and infte.d there
of, insert after thejirfl enumeration there Jhall be one reprefcntatiic
jor every thirty thoufa.nL until the number jhall amount to one hundred ■
aftei a Inch, theproportionJhall be ri Jo regukudby Congrejs. tUtthe num
ber of rebrefentativesJha/l never be less than on-huni, j
one hundred and,jeoentyJive ; but each flute Jh.u!
reprefentatnc." J ' Uv "" lcujl„ c
Mr. Vininc : The duty which I owe to my conftit.,
anxiety on the fubjeft of amendments, and the iuftice
and policy of the measure, lead me to propofc 3!ter'th >r,pr ' ety '
" one hundred and tevemy-five," to insert these wo 'l V ' Wdl '
vhere He,:, -ber ,J inhabitants of an, fiarticul,, State, J"
they Jhall be entitled to tat representatives 1 h ls w JS „ „V* ooo .
out a division. ° ca w ith-
Mr. Ames moved, that the word "thirty" fhonM v. n
out, and[ forty inserted—so that the ratio of representation t"u
be one lor forty thouUnd. lam induccd, iaid he to n l
motion, because I think the prcfent tiumber fufficiemlv \ c
the purpose of Icgiflation—that number which u found 0r
to the object is to be prefered : The people it ispreiumeH a . • ate
sally fatisfied with the pref. Nt number, which falls Ihort
would, on this proposition, actually constitute the house un
exact apportionment upon the present fuppofcd number ofinhT
tants : Experience has taught, that all the information neceiT ar
both of a general and local nature, may be found in a body
more numerous than the present legiffeture : The ex pence oh, T
merous reprefentat.on would soon become diffatistadorvtoth'
people, and be considered as intolerable burden • The rati c
one to every 30000 will swell the reprefentat.on to an enorm?
mass, whole support will be mfufferable, and whose deWberati
will be impracticable : The present population will onthcS
census produce upwards of 100—the augmentation will be ve *
rapid : It theretore appears proper to fix the proportion imm7
d.ately, to prevent these evils. By enlarging the representation'
we left en the chance of feeing the mod competent charaae
and of concentering the wisdom and abilities of the United Stat"'
which alone can support the importance and dignity of that branch
in which the people are more peculiarly mterefted : The refp on
libilitv of any assembly, is in proportion-to the number: In larel
representations the weight, the consequence, and refponfibilityof
individuals is diminished. Numerous representations en -ender
parties, arc fubjett to peculiar fermentations, delay the public bu
siness, and byencreafing the expence, lead the people to consider
government rather a cUi fe than a bit fling. Tho parties may pro
mote the public good, they often give rife to v ry alarming evils.
Whether it is poflible so to constitute a popular assembly as toba
nifh or restrain to any considerable degree, a spirit of taftion, ij
an important enquiry. This however is certain, that in propor
ti°n as the assembly is encreafed, the opportunity for intrigue and
cabal, to influence weak and unsuspicious characters, and to attach
them to the views of ambitious men, is encreafed. It mayalfobe
observed, that refponlibility is in some proportion to the numbers
reprinted. A representative of a large body of people will feel
in .« higher degree the weight of the charge he undertakes, and
will thereby be more interested to support a virtuous fame, and
redouble his exertions for the public good.
The people aTe not anxious to have a representation for every
30000 : This was not the objt& originall) in view by those who
proposed this amendmeut ; their intention was to fix a limitation,
so that the representation fliould not be diminished by Corigrefs
in any future time, below the point of fecuritv—their object was
certainly not augmentation, for in proportion as the people mul
tiply, the representation will encrcafe, and their influence will be
diminished ; this will lessen the controul of the people over them;
increasing the number therefore beyond certain limits will expose
the government to fa&ions, will lessen the agency of the under
standing, and augment that of the passions. I mproper charafttrs
will more easily get elected. The number of suitable persons is
not great in any country, of those, many will be indisposed to
serve. The United States has as great a proportion of competent
abilities perhaps as any country whatever. If however the repre
sentative body is unduly enlarged, the probability of inferior can
didates being ele&ed will rife. It has been asserted that so large
a territory as the United States contain cannot remain united un
der on« government, even if the administration was cntrufcd to
men of consummate abilities, and incorruptible virtue; but this
idea will receive additional force, if the chance of different charac
ters being callcd to the administration is encreafed.
Mi. Ames added many other observations, and concluded by
faying, tlfat from the foregoing rcflcftions upon the fubjeft, he
was led to make the motion, conceiving it to be consonant to the
ideas of the people, and that it would conduce to the dignity and
security of the government, and the prefcrvation of the rights,
and privileges of the people.
Mr. Madison said, he thought differently from the gentleman
last speaking : The design of the amendments is to conciliate the
minds of the people to the government—prudence requires that
the opinion of those States who have proposed this important a
mendmcnt should be attended to. It is a fatt that some States
have proposed an encreafe of the numb r—feveral have mentioned
200 —this renders it probable that they would not be fatisfied with
a less number. Ido not think it necessary at this time to go into
an accurate investigation of the advantages or disadvantages of a
numerous representation; beyond a certain rule, the number might
be inconvenient ; that point is a matter of uncertainty. It is true
that numerous bodies are liable to some abufes,but large assemblies
are not so fubjett to corruption as smaller ones : If we fix the ra
t>o at one for forty thousand, it will not prevent the abuses the
gentleman apprehends, for before the second census (hall be taken,
it is probable that the population will be so encreafed, as to make
the representative body very large ; these is therefore, withrefpeft
to futurity, but little choice between one ratio, or the other. I
think it will be best toretain the 30000, as attended with the lead
difficulty—it is the proportion contemplated by the States, and I
hope therefore that this part of the report will beadopted.
Mr. Sedgwick stated some particulars refpe&ing inftruftions
from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, and said he hoped the
article in the report of the committee would be adopted.
Mr. Gerry also replied to Mr. Ames : He controverted his
calculations, and enforced theneceflity of an ample and adequate
representation. He observed, that;the gentleman had said, " cn "
creasing the number lessens the importance of the members;" but
Sir, said Mr. Gerry, are we, in order to preserve our own dignity
and importance, to facrificethe liberties of the people? He avert
ed that small assemblies are more liable tofermentation than large
large representative assemblies will commonly be composed of a
conhdeiable proportion of the yeomanry of the country, who are
found to be more difpaflionate than persons ele£ted from elevated
walks of life.
Mr. Livermore was opposed to the motion for 40000.
Mr. Ames rose to juftify the motives which induced him to make
the motion : He made a copious reply, and among other observa
tions said, that he had no idea of attempting any alterations of the
Constitution which would injure or weaken the system : The a
mendments it is to be cxpe&cd will improve and make it better,
this he conceived would be the cafe by the alteration he propoled-
Mr. Jackson said, that what he had expe&ed, had taken place.
It is now proposed, by way of amendment to the Constitution, to
reftrift the number of the representative body to one for every
40000 inhabitants. In support of the argument, the gentleman
fays, that in a small assembly the abilities of the best men may e
brought as it were to a focus : If this argument has any weight in
it, why not trust one person ? One representative to 30000 has been
complained of—one to 40000 would certainly be lels competent to
doing justice to his constituents. The motion for linking ou
30000, in order to insert 40000, was negatived. ,
Mr. Sedgwick moved, that the words " onchundred an
fevc nty-five" should be struck out, and two hundred infers •
Mr. Sherman objected to this motion : He said that was
the constitution now to be formed, he fliould be for one re P
Tentative to every 40000 inhabitants, inftcad of 3 0C0C '^ a £ c
upon that principle I was going to move, said lie, that 1 7>
struck out, in order to insert a less number.The representations of fcveral ot th= ftius are too large, and
, l>,n iullW complained of; the lights ot the people are Uc
s3"f 3 " in a large, than in a small = (Ternbly > The great object r.
f Ur Ltion; and this may be acquired by a small number, and
!" hitter purpose than by a large.
I has been laid that a future legiflaturf will not encreafe the
ber should it be found necelfary : If that supposition is true,
"h"orefent house wiil not agree to this motion, unlets we sup-
V that a future house will be less patriotic than the present :
largeness of the number being a l'ecurity against corrup
" Ido not think it is; the Britifli house of commons confilts
nf upwards of 500 members, and yet money enough has always
h . found to corrupt a fufficiertt nuinberforthe minifter'spurpofe.
Mr Madison observed that as the number 200 had been
ntioned in the ratifications of several of the ilates and no fub
fbntial reason lias been afiigned why their expectation should not
he comnhed with, it is reasonable to adopt this motion : Not,
said he, that I would have the house give up their own judgement,
when any lubftantial reason to the contrary is offered.
Mr. Laurance, Mr. Gerry, Mr .Li vek more, Mr.
Sedgwick, Mr. Pace, Mr. Tucker, and Mr. Stone, fev
crally spoke upon this motion —which was finally carried in the
affirmative The paragraph as amended was agreed to by the
committee. .
The third amendment is " Art. r, bee. 2. Par. 3—Strike out
all between the words " direst" and " until such," and instead
thereof, insert but no law varying the compenfution, Jhall take ejfelt,
until an election 0] representatives Jhall have intervened. The mem-
I ITS."
This clause was debated for a (horttime, and then thequeftion
teing taken, it was carried.
Mr. Leonard had leave of ablence for one mouth.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 15, 1789.
In committee of the whole, on amendments to the constitu
tion—-the fourth amendment under consideration ; viz. Art. 1.
Sec. 9, between Par. 2 and 3 insert "no religionJkall be >Jlablifh
dix law, nor Jhali the equal rt 0 hts of confaence be in) sing ed. '
Mr. Sylvester laid he doui ted tne propriety of the mode
ofcxprcflion used in this paragraph; he thought it was liable to
aconftru&ion different from what was intended|by the committee
Mr. Sherman. It appears to mebeft that this article should
be omitted intirely : Congress has no power to make any religious
cftablifoments, it is therefore unneoeffary.
Mr. Carrol, Mr. Hunti not on, Mr. M add i son, and Mr.
Livermore made some observations : The laii proposed that
the words should be (truck out to fubftitu:c these words, " Con
sr(fsJhill make no laws touching religion or the rights of conscience.
The question on this motion was carried.
Fifth amendment. The Jreedom oj speech, and of the press, and
{J the rights of the people pcaceably to ajjemble and consult jor their
common good, and to apply to government for the rcdrej> of grievances
fall not be injringed.
Mr. Sedgwick moved to strike out the words {| afTemble
and" This lsafelf vident unalienable right of th people, said
he, and it does appear to me below the: dignity of this houf , 10
insert such things in the constitution. The right will be as fully
itsogniztd if the words are itruck out, as if they were retained :
For if the people may converse, they must meet for the purpose.
This motion was opposed by Mr. Gerry, Mr, Pace, Mr.
ViNiNG and Mr. Hartly ; and the queilion being taken it
was negatived.
Mr. ITucker moved to insert these words, to infruEl their
tifrtkntalivess This produced a long debate.
Mr. Hartley. I could wish, Mr. chairman, that these
words hid not been propose d. Rcprefentativcs ougnt to po fiefs
the confidence of tiitir constituents ; they ought to rely on their
honour and integrity. The practice of inftrutling representatives
may be attended with danger ; we have seen it attended with bad
consequences; it is commonly refprted to tor party purposes, and
when the p»ilions are up. It is a r ght, which even in England
is considered a problematical. The right of mftrufcting is liable
to greatabufes; it will generally be exercised in umes of popular
commotion; and these mftruaions will rather express the pre
judices of party, than tfie di&ates of reason and policy. I nave
known, Sir, fomany evils arise from adopting the popular opin
ion of the moment, that I hope this <*ov rnment will be guard d
againA ftich an influence ; and wish the words may not be in
fixed.
Mr. Pace was in favour of the motion- H© said, that the
right may well be doubted in a monarchy ; but in a government
iflftituted for the sole purpose of guarding the rights of the peo
ple) it appears to me to be pi oper.
Mr.CiYMER: I hope, Sir, the clause will not be adopted, for
ifitis, we We must go further, and fay, that the representatives arc
hand by the inftruttions, which is a mod dangerons principle, and
udeftru&ive of all ideas of an independent and deliberative body.
Mr.Sherman said, these words had a tendency to miflcad the
people, by conveying an idea that they had a right to controul the
debates of the federai legislature. Inflruftions cannot be consider
ed as a proper rule for a rcprefentative to form his conduct by ;
thev cannot be adequate to the purpose for which he i> delegated.
He is to consult the good of the whole : Should inftruftions there
fore coincide with his ideas of the common good, they would be
unneceflary : If they were contrary, he would be bound by every
principle of justice to disregard them.
Mr. Jackson opposed the motion : He said this was a danger
ous article, as its natural tendency is to divide the house into fac
tions : He then adverted to the absurdities and inconsistencies which
would beinvolved in adopting the measure.
Mr. Gerry supported the motion : He observed, that to sup
pose we cannot be inftru&ed, is to suppose that we are perfect :
The power of inftru&ion is in my opinion cflential to check anad
toimftration which should be guilty of abuses : No one will deny
1 ma y not happen :To deny the people this right is to ar-
r ®pteto ourselves more wisdom than the whole body of the peo-
Pepoliefs.—l contend, Sir, that our constituents have not only
® ri ght to inflruQ, but to bind this legiflature—lt has been con
ed by the friends to the constitution, that the people are so-
S n ; if so it involves an abfurdityto suppose that they cannot.
°°t only inftruft, but controul the house : Debates may create
10ns, as well as inftruftions : We cannot be too well informed ;
is is the befl method of obtaining information, and I hope we
a never shut our ears against that information which is to be de-
V \r v oice of the people.
j /" adis °n that the exiftcnce of this right is at
oujtlul. —I wish that the amendments may consist of an enu-
ration of simple and acknowledged principles : The insertion
propo.uions that are of a doubtful nature, will have a tenden-
Cn judicethe whole amendments: The right rtow
ted is doubtful, and will be so considered by many of the
t ru Cs ' * n *° me refpe&s the declaration of this right may be
t'tiat'/h ° ' 8 e • we m ean nothing more by it than this,
rcen'^^ eC^'e 3Ve 8 r 'S^ lt to g' vc advice or express their fenti
jlrpi an wi(he. it is true; but still unneceftary, as such a right is
h aVf 7 r J co gnized : The press shall be free, and the people shall
mea f ar^ c f r eedom of speech and petitioning: but ifitis
the nr 3t 1 re P rc^cntat ' ve s are to be bound by these intrusions,
f els • Suppose a rcprefentative is inftru6led to do
cr ifice b' C ° ntrar y tot ! le P good ? Would he be bound to fa
contrarvt°L will not the vote of a
ent o ne ? if 'r^ ru^on as binding on the people as a differ
ent to'" n n » sar e true, where is the right of the confti-
must piti/f ' or is the advantage to tcfult from it?
' tf anbe / P erte^ other obligations, the most sacred ;or
people are ik™) to l^e people. The gentlemau fays, the
K ove reign; but who are thepeople ? Is every small
Ms the vft" Eo? f E /- inhabitants of this diftrift ex
lcc 0 People, when they may not be a thousandth
par', and all tne.r inftru&ions may contradict the sense of the
a hole people besides ? H .ve the people in detached alTemblies
i right to violate the conltitution or controul the whole sovereign
power? This would be setting up an hundred fovereign.les in the
place of one.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) was onpofed to the motion : The do£trine
>f mitruttions would, in practice, operate partially : The States
near the Tat of government will have an obvious advantage over
those remote from it: There is no neceflity for so large a reprefen
tatlon as has been determined on, if the members are to be guided
in all their deliberations by positive inftruftions ; one member
from a State will serve every purpose ; bi* then the nature ot the
•jfLmbly will be changed trom a to a diplomatic bo
dy : It would in fa£t be turning all our representatives into am
bafTadors.
Mr. Stone observed that to adopt this motion would change
the nature'of the conltitutiou ; instead of being a representative
government, it would be a singular kind of democracy ; in which,
whenever aqueftion arises, what is the law P It will not be deter
mined by recurring to the codes and institutions of Congress,
but by collecting the various instruCtions from different parts of
the Union.
Mr. Gf.rry observed that several of the States had proposed
this amendment, which rendered it proper to be attended to :
In answer to Mr. Madison's query he fa id, he meant that induc
tions thould be consistent with the laws and the conltitution.
Mr. Li ve r more said that though no particular diitntts cou d
inftru£t, yet the Legillatures of the States most undoubtedly pof
felTcd this right.
This assertion of Mr. Livermore was controverted by sev
eral genclemen—by Mr. Sedgwick, Mr. Smith, Mr. Ames,
nd Mr. Wads worth : The lall, speaking on the fubj ct ot
inftrultions in general, said, I never knew merely political in
tlru£tions to be observed ; and I never knew a repiefentativc
brought to an account for it: But I have known representatives
follow inftruftions, contrary to their private sentiments, and they
have ever been despised for it. Oihei shave disregarded their in
ftruftions, and have been re-ele£ted, and carefled. Now if tht
people considered it as an inherent right in them to inftrutt their re
presentatives, they would undoubtedly have punished the viola
tion of such inftruftions ; but this I believe has never been the cafe.
I consider the measure As haviug a miichicvous tendency.
The debate was continued much longer, but in a desultory
way, as the speakers appeared to take it tor granted, that they
might touch upon collateral circumstances. The question on th
motion being at length taken, it was negatived by a larg major
ity; and then the committee agreed to the amendment in us o
riginal form.
The committee rose and the chairman reported progress.
Mr. Am es introduced a motion that all questions on amend
ments should be determined in committee, by two thirds of the
members. Laid on the table. Adjourned,
MONDAY, AUGUST 17.
In committee of the whole on the fubjeft of amendments to the
Conltitution.
The 6th and 7th amendm nts were agreed to without alteration.
In the on mot ion ol Mi. LAURANCE,aiter the words " nor
shall" these words were infertcd, m any criminal cases The 9th
wa> adopted without alteration. In the 10th, on motion ot Mr.
Benson, after the words 4 * and ess its' thef words were infertcd,
againji unreafonabte searches and seizures." 11th, 12th, 13th ana
14th, were agreed to in the.r original form. The committee
then rose, and the house adjourned.
TUESDAY, AUGUST 18.
The committee appointed to bring in a bill to regulate the Post-
Office, brought in arefoive, which, with the Preamble, was to the
following efteft, That as the shortness of the time previous to the
adjournment would not admit of making the necelTjry arrange
ments, therefore Resolved, that the Post Master General be
directed to continue the Post Office upon the system established
by the late Congress, and that he be authorised to make the nceef
fary contiadts, &c.
Mr. Gerry introduced a motion upon the fubjeft of amend
ments, to this purpoit, That such amendments to the Constitution
of the United States as have been piopofed by the different States,
which are not in the report of the fele£t committee, be referred
to a committee of the whole house—.and that those, with the a
mendnunts proposed by that committee, be included in one re
port. This motion was introduced by a lengthy speech upon the
lubjeft of amendments at large,and was seconded by Mr. Sumpter
—This brought on a warm debate, whieh continued till near one
o'clock—when thequeltion being called for from various parts of
the house, the Ayes and Noes were required by Mr. Gerry.
Upon which' Mr. Vi ning called for the previous question, and
the Ayes and Noes were then required upon that also—this occa
sioned a further debate—at length the Speaker directed the Clerk
to call the Ayes and Noes on Shall the mam quejlion be put ?
NOES.
MefTrs Ames, Baldwin, Benfon, Boudinct, Brown, Cadwallader, Car
rol, Clymer, Fitifimons, Fojler, Gilman, Goodhue, Hartley, Heijler, Hun
tington, Lanrance, Lee, Madtfon, Moore, P. Muhlenberg, Partridge,
Schureman, Scot, Sedgwick, Seney, Sylvejler, Sinnickjon, Smith, (S. C.J
Smith, (M.J Thatcher, Trumbull, fining, IVadfworth, H'ynkoop. 34.
AYES.
Me firs Burke, Coles, Floyd, Gerry, Griffin, Grout, Hathorn, Liver
more, Page, Parker, Van Ranfelher, Sherman, Stone, Sturgis, Sumpter,
Tucker. 16. Majority 18.
The House then went into a committee of the whole on the re
port of the feleft comfnittee.
The five remaining amendments were agreed to by the com
mittee, with some little variation. They then rose, and the
chairman reporced their proceedings, which, it was ordered
(hould lie on the table for the consideration of the members.
A melTage was received by the senate by their secretary, in
forming the house that they had con urred with one amendment ;
in the bill to provide for the necHTary cxpences attending nego
ciations, and treating with the Indian tribes, &c.
The proposed amendment was, to strike out " Forty," and
infer!: twenty, which would make the provision for the expences
twenty thousand inftfad of torty thousand dollars.
Mr. Tucker presented a number of papers containing seven
teen proposed amendments to the constitution ; which were read
and laid on the table.
The committee on the fubjeft of the disputed election of the
members from New-Jersey, brought in a report containing a
state of facts refpefting said election, which was read, and then
the house adjourned.
Seme account of the Debates of 17 th and 18th infant, fhal! ap
pear in our vext. x
CHARLESTON, (s. C.) JULY 11.
The coinmiffioners appointed by the Britifli
<rovernment, to enquire into and ascertain the
claims of the American loyalists, have finally de
termined, that no coin pen fat ion fliallbe allowed
for lofles on mortgages, bonds ai d
book debts, because those debts are recoverable
by the treaty of peace ; so that if a loyalill was
poflefled of a real estate, which the commiffion
crs allowed to be worth 20001. mortgages, bonds,
and debts, joool. but owed the fubjerts of the
United States 30001. in common jultice there
would be a balance in his favour 40C0I. but the
amount of what he owes being ioool. more than
the value of his real estate, and nothing being
allowed for his personal eltate, in fad:, in fnch an
inilance the loyaliftwill be left ioool. wotfeihan
nothing.
BALTIMORE, AUGUST 11.
On Saturday the lit inft. there happened at
Carlisle " the molt violent hurricatte, tenipelt or
tliunder-ftorm" that was ever known in that bo
rough, by which the Prelbyterian church, and
other public buildings, with the Rev. Mr. Da
vidfon's new brick lioufe, and several other pri
vate buildings, were unroofed, and otherways
much damaged.
PHILADELPHIA, AUG. 12.
Extract of a letter from Dr. Lettfom, of London, to
a friend of his in this city, datsd March 6,
" I approve the zeal expelled in thy letter, for
the promotion of universal liberty. W hen I came
of age, I found my property consisted in llaveS)
to whom I gave freedom, and left myfelf penny
left, this facrifice I have never repented of. 1 did
this a<fl of enfranchifement from no advice what
ever, but from the internal impulse of humanity,
and A conviction on my mind, that the furelt parh
to heaven was in doing to others as we would
that others should do to us. 1 sincerely wi/h
you and us success in fofiening the chains of 11a
very, and leflening the weight of the links, and
by degrees we ihall break them asunder.
The Trustees and Faculty of the Co lege ot Philadelphia have,
by diploma, granted thedegr eof Doctor in Divinit), to the Rev.
Robert Smithy Rettor of St. Paul's and Principal of Chzrkfton Col
lege, n South Carolina ; the Rev. Edward Bap, R< &or of St. Paul's*
Newbui yport,and Bishop ele& of the Proti llant Epifcopai Church
n the States of MalTachui ttsand New-Hampshire ; and the Rev.
Samuel Parker, Rcttor of Trinity Church, Eofton.
PORTSMOUTH, AUGUST P.
A letter from Bengal, has the following curi
ous particulars :—" At Oude, near Fyzabad, in
the province of Bengal ,is a tomb of Set ii, ( Adam's
third son) twelve feet long.
" Sujah Dowl ah's father repaired the tomb
and of Job's adjoining it. Not more than a mile
from those tombs, is a fragment of No >h's Ark;
perhaps by examining the wood, whether of Sak,
or Teke, it might be afceitained whereabouts it
was built, or discover a timber for fliip-building,
more durable than either of those."
NEW YORK, AUGUST 19.
Seventeen amendments > multiplied by fifty-nine
(the number of members in a certain aflembly)
give a produ<si of one thousand and three—lf con
ltitutions can be made perfecfl by amendments,
what a blefled chance has the constitution of the
United States !
The General Convention of the Protestant
Episcopal Church met at Philadelphia, July 2-th,
and adjourned August Btli, to meet again at the
fame place, September 29.
We are informed that the greatest harmony
pervades that refpetftable body : And that among
other business, they have formally recognized
Dr. Se abury's consecration, which act they have
communicated to him. It is expected he will meet
the Convention in September.—That the churches
to the eastward have wrote to each of our Bishops
requesting them jointly to consecrate the Rev.
Dr. Bass of Mafiachufetts Bifbop, as soon as con
venient. And that as the convention is not broke
up, the Clergy si om the Caroliiias, &c. will re
main at Philadelphia till themeetinginSeptember.
Boston papers by last night's poll fay that—
The Hon. Mr. Lincoln, colledror of Boston di
ftriethas appointed John Uic.e, Efq.deputy col
lector—Mr. William Shattuck and Patrick
Phelon, Esq. weighers and gangers—and Mr.
Jonas Clark Minot, infpettor for that diftridt.
Mr. Caleb Blodget, merchant of Boston ;
who was an officer in the late continental army,
was unfortunately drowned in Boston harbor, last:
week—his death is inoft fmcerely regreted as a
loss to the community of an amiable and worthy
character.
DEATHS.
On Sunday lad died, Master George Washington Knox,
youngeftfon to the Hon. Gen. Knox, Secretary at War.
" Early," bright, transient as the morning dew,
" He sparkled, was cxhal'd and went to Heaven."
Ye(\erday died Major John an officer of diftin&iori
in the Georgia line of the late American army, and treasurer of the
State Society of the Cincinnati of that ftat". His remains will,this
afternoon be interred in St. Pauls, Church-yard, attended by the
State Society of the Cincinnati of New-York, and a detachment
of Col. Bauman's artillery. He bore a tedious and lingering de
cay -with all that fortitude which his character as a soldier was
strongly marked with.
Citizens of Georgia, and friends of thedeceafed in New-York,
are requested to attend his funeral at five o'clock this afternoon,
from Mrs. Sebring's, No. 63, corner of Crown street, Broad-
Way.
The members of the New-York State Society of the Cincinnati.
ire particularly requefled to attend the funeral of the late Major Lucas
of Georgia, this afternoon, precisely at, 4 o'clock, at the City Tavern.
Those members of other State Societies, now in this citx, are alftojnvited
on the occcafion. By Order of the President.
AuguJ} 19th. John Stagg, jun. Sec'ry
Saturday, Brig Patty, Malliby, St. Thoms's, 13 days.
Schoone- Hope, Clark, Cape-Francois, 11 days.
Sunday, Sloop Ranger, Raifbeck, St. Johns, 14 days.
Schooner Nelly, Mc Neil, 17 days.
Sloop Elizabeth, Muffin, Tuiks-Ifland, 13 days.
Monday, §loop Two Friends, Smith, Alexandria, 4 davs.
j Schooner N York Packet, Barnard, Boston, Bday$ # 'The Right Constitution oja Commonwealth examined.
[Continued from No. 33.]
IT is agreed, that " if any be never so good a patriot," (whe
ther his power be prolonged or not) 44 he will find it hard to keep
felf from creeping in upon him, and prompting him.to lb me ex
travagancies for his own private benefit." But it is asserted, that
power will be prolonged in the hands of the fame patriot, the
fame rich, able, powerful, and well-descended citizen, See. as
much as if he had a feat for lile, or an hereditary feat in a senate,
and, what is more deftru&ive, his power and influence is con
stantly increasing, so that felf is more certainly and rapidly grow
ing upon him; whereas, in the other cafe, it is defined, limited,
and never materially varies. If, in the firft cafe, 44 he be Ihortly
44 to return to a condition common with the reft ofhis brethren,"
it is only for a moment, or a day, or a week, in order to be re
elected with frefti eclat, redoubled popularity, increased reputa
tion, influence, and power. Self-intereft, therefore, binds him
to propagate a falfe report and opinion, that he 44 does nothing
44 but what is just and equal," while in fatt he is everyday doing
"what is unjust and unequal ; while he is applying all the offices ot
the state, great and small, the revenues of the public, and even the
judicial power, to the augmentation of his own wealth and ho
nors, and thofeof his friends, and to the punishment, depreflion
and deftru&ion of his enemies, with the acclamations and hofan
nas of the majority of the people.
44 This, without controversy, must needs be the most noble,
44 the most just, and the most excellent way of government in
44 free states," provided our author meant only a mixed state,
in which the people have an efiential share, and the command of
the public purse, with the judgment of causes and accusations as
jurors, while the power is tempered and controlled by theari
llocratical part of the community in another house, and the execu
tive in a diftinft branch. But as it is plain his meaning was to
jumble all these powers in one centre, a single assembly of rcpre
fentatives, it must be pronounced the most ignoble, unjust, and
detestable form of government; worse than even a well-digeftcd
simple monarchy or anftocracy. The greatest excellency of it is,
that it cannot last, but hastens rapidly to a revolution.
For a further illustration of this fubjeft, let a supposition be
made, that in the year 1656, when this book was printed, the
system of it had been reduced to prattice : A fair, full, and just
representation of the people of England appears in the house of
commons in Westminster-hall ; my lord General Cromwell is re
turned for Westminster or London ; IretQn, Lambert, Sec. for
other principal cities or counties; Monk, Sir Henry Vane, See.
for others ; and evtn Hugh Peters for some borough ; —all eyes
profoundly bow to my lord general as the firft member of the
lioufe ; the other principal characters are but his primary planets,
and the multitude but secondary ; altogether making a great ma
jority in the intercft of his highness : If the majority is dear,and
able to excite a strong current of popular rumours, ardor, and en
thusiasm, in their favour, their power will increase with every
annual election, until Cromwell governs the nation more abfo-
Jutely than any simple monarch in Europe. If there are in the
house any members so daring as to differ in opinion, they will
iofe their feats, and more fubmiflive chara&crs be returned in their
places; but if the great men in trie house ftiould fall into pr.tty
equal divisions, then would begin a warfare of envy, rancor, ha
tred, and abuse of each other, until they divided the nation into
two paities, and both must take the field.—Suppofe, for a further
illustration, the monarchical and ariftocratical branches in Eng
land suspended, and all authority lodged in the present house of
commons ; —fuppofe that, in addition to all the great national
question of legislation, were adced the promotion of all offices in
the church, the law, the army, navy, excise, customs, and all
questions of foreign alliance ; let all the foreign ambafladors, as
well as candidates for offices, solicit there :—The contemplation
must be amusing ! but there is not a member of the house could
seriously wish it, after thinking a moment on the consequence.
The obje&s are smaller, and the present temptations less, in our
American houses ; but the impropriety would be equally obvious,
though perhaps not so instantaneously deftruftive.
Our author proceeds to prove his do&rine by examples out of
the Roman history. 44 What more noble patriots were there
44 ever in the world than the Roman senators were, while they
44 were kept under by their kings, and felt the fame burthens of
44 their fury, as did the reft of the people?"
If by the patriots are meant men who were brave and a&ive in
war to defend the commonwealth against its enemies, the Roman
senators and patricians were, under the kings, as good patriots
as the plebeians were, and no bett< r. Whether they were ever
kept under by their kings, or whether their kings were kept un
der by them, I s ubmit to Livy and Dionyfius. The whole line
of their kings, Romulus, Numa, Tullus, Ancus, Lucius Tar
quinus, Servius Tullius, were meritorious princes ; yet the patri
cians and senators maintained a continual series of cabals against
them, constantly conspiring to set up one, and pull down another.
Romulus was put to death by the patricians ; Tullus Hoftillus
was murdered by the patricians ; Lucius Tarquinius was affaflina
ted by the patricians ; and Servius Tullius too was murdered by
the patricians, to make way for Tarquin. Some of these excel
lent princes were dtftroyed for being too friendly to the people,
and others for not being servile enough to the senate. I fit is patri
otism to persecute to death every prince who has an equitable de
sire of doing jufticc, and easing the burthens of the plebeians ; to
intrigue in continual faClions to set up one king and butchcr ano
ther ; toconfider friendftiip, and humanity, and equity, to the
plebeians as treason against the state, and the highest crime that
could be committed either by a king or patrician ; then the Ro
man senators under the kings were noble patriots. But tta utmost
, degrees of jealousy, envy, arrogance, ambition, rancor, rage, and
cruelty, that ever constituted the ariftocratical or oligarchical
character in Sparta, Ven cc, Poland, or where ever unbalanced
ariftocratics have exiftcd and been most enormous, existed in the
Roman patricians under their kings.
What can our author mean by the senate and people's 44 feeling
the burthens of the fury of their kings ?" Surely be had read
the Roman hftory! Did he mean to repref nt it? The whole
line of Roman kings, until we come to Tarquin the Proud, were
mild, moderate princes, and their greatest fault, in the eyes ot
the senators. was their endeavor now and then to protest the peo
ple against the tyranny of the senate. Their greatest fault, in the
judgment of truth, was too much complaisance to the senate, by
making the conilitution more ariftocratical : Witntfs the assem
blies by centuries instituted by Servius Tullius.
But Nedham fliould have considered what would have been the
fruits in Rome, from the time of Romulus, of annual elc&ions
of fen'ntors to be vested with supreme power, with all the autho
rity of the king, senate, and people. All those perl'ons whoft
whose names we now read as kings, and all those who are men
tioned as senators, would havecaballed with the people as well a
cne another. Their paflions would have been extingnifhed ; the
fame jealousy and envy, ambition and avarice, revenge and cruel
ty, would have been displayed in aftemblies of the people : fome
tirnes one junto would have been popular,fometimes another: one
set of principles would havif prevailed one year, an 4 another the
next ; now one law, then another ; at this time one rule of pro
perty, at that another; riots, tumults, and battles, would have
be<n faught continually ; the law would have been a perfect Pro
teus. But asthis confufoon could not last long, cither a simple mo
narchy, or an aristocracy, must have arisen ; these might not have
lasted long, and all the revolutions def:ribed by Plato and Ariftr
tle as growing out of one another, and that we lee in the Greek,
Roman,and Italian republics,didgrow outof one another, must have
taken place, until the people weary ofrhange, would have fettled
under a single tyranny and ftandingarnly,unlcfsthey had been wife
enough to eftabhfh a well-ordered government of thiee branches.
It is easy to mifreprcfent and confound things in order to make
them anfwcr a purpose, but it was not because the authority was
permanent, or Jlanding, or hereditary, that the behaviour of the fe
natewas woife alter the expuliion of the kings than it had been
under them; for the dignity of patricians and the authority of
senators, was equally Jlanding, permanent, and hereditary, under the
kings, from the institution of Romulus to the expulsion of Tar
quin, as it was afterwards, from the expuliion of Tarquiu to the
institution of tribunes, and indeed to the subversion of the com
monwealth. It wasnotit permanency, but its omnipotence its being
unlimited, unbalanced, uncontrouled, that occasioned the abuse ; and
this is precisely what we contended for, that power is always a
bused when unlimited and unbalanced, whether it be perma
nent or temporary, a diftiu&ion that makes little difference in cf
feft. The temporary has often been the worftof the two,becaufe
it has often been sooner abused, and morcgrofsly, in order to ob
tain its revival at the Hated period. It is agreed that patricians
nobles, ft nators, the ariftocratical part of the community, call it
by what name you please, are noble patriots when they are kept
under; they are really then the best men and the bi.il citizens :
But there is no poflibility of keeping them under but by giving
them a m after in a monarchy,and twomafters in a free government
One of the masters I mean is the executive power in the firft ma
<*iftrate, and the other of the people in the houfc of representatives.
Under these two masters they are,in general,the best men, citizens,
magistrates, generals, or other officers ; they are the guardian s
ornaments, and glory of the community. (To be continued.)
MR. FENNO,
I viijh the minds of the Americans to be unfetter
ed, andmuj] therefore requeji you and the printers in
this country to publish the following extracts from thi
" Diversions of Purley," -which is almojl the onL
treatise on our language that unfolds its trueprinciples.
" DR. LOWTH, when he undertook to write
his Introduction, with the bell intention in the
world, moll afliiredly finned againll his bettei
judgment: for he begins modjudicioufly thus—
" Universal Grammar explains the principles
" which are common to all languages. The
" Grammar of any particular language, applies
" those common principles to that particular lan
" guage." And yet with this clear truth before
his eyes, he boldly proceeds to give a particular
grammar, without being himfelf poflefled of one
lingle principle of universal Grammar. Again he
fays, " the connective parrs of sentences are the
" moll important of all" ; after which he proceeds
to his examples of the proper and improper use of
these connectives—without having the moll dis
tant notion of the meaning of the words whole
employment he undertakes to fettle. The con
sequence was unavoidable, that having no reason
able rule to go by, and no opponent fignification
to direct him, he was compelled to trull his own
fanciful taste, and the uncertain authority of
others, and has consequently approved and con
demned without truth or reason." page 284 note.
" Johnson's merit ought not to be denied to
him ; but his Dictionary is the mofl imperfect and
faulty, and the leall valuable of any of his pro
ductions; and that fliare of merit which it poflefled,
makes it by so much the more hurtful. It mull
be confefled that his Grammar and Hilloiy and
Dictionary of what he calls the Englilh language,
are, in all refpecfts, except the bulk of the latter,
moll truly contemptible performances ; and a rc
proach ro the learning and indullry of a nation,
which could receive them with the slightest ap
probation.
Nearly one third of this Dictionary is as much
the language of the Hottentots as of the Englilh;
and it would be no difficult mutter, so to translate
any one of the plainell and moll popular numbers
Df the Spectator into the language of that Die
;ionary, that no mere Englishman, tho well read
in his own language, would be able to compre
hend one sentence ofit. page 267.
" Harris defines a word to be a "found fignifi
sant 5" then he defines conjunctions to be " words,
(that is, founds pgnificant) devoid oj Signification."
Afterwards ke allows that tliey have " a kind 0f
fignification." Mr. Harris goes farther, and fays,
they are a " kind of middle beings" (he mull mean
between fignification and no fignification) " shar
ing the attributes of both" (that is, of fignification
and no fignification) " and conducing to link both
together," (that is, fignification and no fignifica
tion.) " His definition of proportion is jull as ri
diculous. Yet this is a specimen of what Lowth
calls the moll perfect example of Analyfis,tliat has
been given since the days of Arillotle." page 165.
I hefe charges, however severe, are doubtless
just. Harris has publifhedavolumecalled Hermes,
in which he does little more than endeavor to
prove that our Gothic forefathers 2000 years ago,
were as great philosophers 3S Plato and Arillotle.
The time will come when the philological trea
dles of these authors will be numbered with the
monkifli volumes of fcholallic theology, and
thrown among therubbifh of literature. But what
then ? If common sense Ihould get the better of
tliefe absurd fyllems, new coxcombs and new pe
dants will Hart some others equally absurd and
make prol'elytes to them. While we have pre
tended philosophers who can fetioufly attempt to
to prove that the earth was once covered with a
crull, which was burll at the flood and tumbled
into mountains—while they can calmly try to per
luade us that the whole fyllem of worlds which
we fee is lurroundecl with a shell of brass or cop-
P er — anf l while very learned men dare to believe
that mankind once had tails, and went on all
fours^ —I fay while our preflesteem with such Huff
as this, we are not to be surprised that grave doc
tors and right reverends should think favagescapa
ble of inventing words without meaning, and ar
ranging them as eight dillinct parts of speech.
SIXTH AiT or THE LZCISLATVRI Q; tllL l/Xtoti
An ACT to eftablijh an EXECU I IVE
MENT, to be denominated the DEPARI'Mvvt*
OF WAR. Nl
BE it cnarted by the Senate and Hottfe of R c pre
fentatives oj the United States of America in ConLtft
ajfembled, That there lhall be an executive depart
ment,to bfc denominated the Department of War •
and that there lhall be a principal officer therein
to be called the SecretaryJ'or tlie department of
war, who {hall perform and execute fucli duties
as lhall from time to time be enjoined on, or en.
milted to him by the President of the United
States, agreeable to the Constitution, relative to
military coinmilfions,or to the land,or naval forces
lhips, or warlike stores of the United States or to
such other matters refpecfting military or naval
affairs, as the Prelident of the United States lhall
alfign to the said department, or relative to the
granting of lands to persons entitled thereto, for
military services rendered to the United States or
.elative to Indian affairs : and furthermore
That the said principal officer lhall conduct the
oufinefs of the said department in such man
ner, as the President of the United States lhall
from time to time order or inftrudt.
And be it further enatied, That there lhall bein
he said department, an inferior officer, to be at>-
pointed by the said principal officer, to be em
ployed therein as he lhall deem properand to be
called the Chief Clerk in the department of war,
and who, whenever the said principal officer lhall
be removed from office by the Prelident of the
United States, or in any other cafe of vacancy,
lhall during such vacancy, Imve the charge, and
culbody of all records, hooks, and papers, ap
pertaining to the said department.
And be it further enacted, That the said princi
pal officer,and every other perfonto be appointed
or employed in the laid department, lhall, before
he enters on the execution of this office or em
ployment, take an oath or affirmation well and
faithfully to execute the trull committed to him.
And be it further enacted, That the Secretary
for the department of war, to be appointed in
consequence of this a<sl, lhall forthwith after
his appointment, be entitled to have the custody
and chai ge of all records, books, and papers ill
the office of Secretary for the department of war,
heretofore eftablilhed by the United States in
Congress afiembled.
F. A. Muhlenberg, Speak-r of the House of Rrprtfcntolhis.
John Adams, Vicc-Prejidcnt cj the United States,
and Prefidevt oj the Senate.
APPROVED, AUCUST 7, 1789.
GLORGfc WASHINGTON, President of the UnitedStatts.
SEVENTH ACT OF THE LEGISLATURE OF THEVXIOX.
An ACT for the efiablifhmetit and support
HOUSES, BEACONS, BUOYS, and PUBLIC
PIERS.
BE it enattcdby the Striate and Hcufe of Rsprifcn
latives oj the United States of America in Congress if
fembled, That all expences which lhall accrue
from and after the fifteenth day of August one
thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine, in tht
neceflary support, maintenance, and repairs of all
light-houses, beacons, buoys, and public piers
ere<fled, placed, or funk before the palling of this
aift, at the entrance of, or within any bay, inlet,
harbour, or port of the United States, tor ren
dering the navigation thereof easy and fafe, (hall
be defrayed out of the Treasury of the United
States : Provided nevertheless, Thatnone
of the said expences lhall continue to be so defray
ed by the United States, after the expiration of
one year from the day aforefaid, unless such ligl't
houfes, beacons, buoys, and public piers, tall
in the mean time be ceded to, and veiled in the
United States, by the State or States refpeiftivelf
in which the fame may be, together with the lands
and tenements thereunto belonging, and together
with the jurifditftion of the fame.
And be it further enatled, That a light-lion c
(hall be eretfled near the entrance of the Chela
peake-Bay, at such place, when ceded to the
United States in manner aforefaid, as the President
of the United States lhall direcft.
And be it further enaCled, That it lhall be tie
duty of the Secretary of the Treasury to P r ° VI e
by contracts which lhall be approved by the Pre
dent of the United States, for building a I'g ,
lioufe near the entrance ofCJielapeake-Baj, an
for rebuilding when neceflary, and keeping 1
good repair, the light-houses, beacons, bu°y >
and publick piers in the several States, a,l£ 0
furnilhing the fame with all neceflary fupp > e »
and also to agree for the falarics, wages, 01 '
of the person or persons appointed by the ,e
dent,for the fuperintendance and care of the am
And be it further enatted, That all pilots in _
bays, inlets, rivers, harbours, and ports o
United States, lhall continue to be regulate■
conformity wi h the exilting laws ot th-
refpeiflively wherein such pilots may be, o.
such laws as the States may respective' y ]<j
ter enadt for thepurpofe, until further leg l
provision lliall be made by Congress. rG
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENB
Speaker of the Ihufc of WfX uu
JOHN ADAMS, Vict-Frtfiirnt ojthe Untie
and President oj J -
ArpROVED, Aucust 7, ijßg. „ suits-
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefiient oj the V»u