[No. XXXIII.]
MISCELLANY.
fj-pjg TABLET.
No. XXXIII.
« Prohibition often creates eager and intemperate
yjfots towards objeCts; -which we Jbould otberioife
ftek after moderately, if at all.
IT is not an easy queflion to decide, whe
ther it is a more common fault in educa
tion to indulge children too far in certain instan
ces or to reftritft them too rigorously in others.
If we take a critical view of human life, we shall
probably find a considerable proportion of the
B oft abandoned characters, that disturb and dif
arace society, to have originated frdm parents of
very scrupulous piety, and severe and exalted
morality. Such over-exad: people draw the
cords of discipline so hard, that they mull inevi.
tably break asunder. They cxprefs the strongest
detestation, and bear unrelenting testimony
aaainft many recreations and pastimes, which
onlyceafe to be innocent when carried to excess,
and which would seldom be carried to excess,
were a proper medium of indulgence seasonably
observed.
The children of auftere,unaccommodating pa
rents discover a flronger inclination for some
plcafures and amusements, which are prohibited,
than they do for others, more tempting in them
selves, which are not barred by such prohibitions.
Itisevident therefore that the prohibition itfelf
gives the principal edge to the temptation.
There are two sources of inordinate love of
pleaf'ure that fliould be guarded against. One of
them consists in indulging recreation to so great
a degree, that we feel pain in refraining from
it, because is has become so fixed an habit as not
to be laid aside without reluctance. The habit
of enjoying conftitutes,in this instance, the prin
cipal stimulus to gratification. The other source
depends on a cause exactly the reverse. Some
youth, by being prohibited from diversions, affix
an imaginary delight to the enjoyment so much
greater than the reality would afford, that their
dcfire to trespass becomes k reliflable. They are
tempted tbtarte what is forbidden. Had they
beenleft free, it is ten chances to one, whether
the object had contained charms fufficient to at
tract their attention.—lmagination is on the
*ing,ftamps a value on what is indifferent, and
creates a paflion which runs into extremes. The
ardor of inclination is heightened, by the fatis
fadtion that is felt in violating an unreasonable
command, and passing over reftritflions that are
founded in fuperltition or auflerity.
But this is not the worll of it. When attempts
are made to draw children into a belief that all
pleasures are vices, and that all vices are equally
abominable and injurious, they make no distinc
tion between atftion§ of moral demerit, and those
uhich are only deemed wrong by the caprice,
'be ignorance or over-exacft maxims of their pa
rents. ihe consequence of such an error is
dieadful to think of. A child of common sense
ma y pcifuade hiinfelfthat he is forbidden many
gratifications which are not intrinsically wrong.
From a fpfightlinefs of imagination he will easily
e enticed to break over parental authority in
fash things,?s he fees bther people pra<ftice with
°Ut Convenience or reproach. The eifeCl of
tbisdifobedience is, that he gradually accustoms
himfeh to uifregard the admonitions of his pa
ints,and is instigated into actions which he would
cv er commit, had his parental reltriiflions been
onfined within reasonable limits.
The iJeas suggested in this number deserve a
°' e a ri plc confuleraiion than can be allowed in
a Single paper. In my next the subject shall be
a ß a in introduced.
WEDNESDAY, August J, 17^9.
EXTRACT FROM " AMERICAN ESSAYS."
ON THE MANUFACTURE OF TOBACCO.
COMPARED with Great Britain, America
justly claims the superiority in extent of territo
ry and sea coatt, multiplicity of fafe harbours,
variety of climates and productions, with many
other natural advantages.
Among some of the powerfully active means
now in her pofleffion, may be primarily confider
eel the article of Tobacco, which is not only
productive of immense revenue to some of the
European States, but is become from habit, and
a general faith in its virtues, of such importance
throughout all Europe, that it may at this day
with propriety*be ranked among their necefla
riesof life. In OsTEND,a free port in Austrian
Flanders, where our American tobacco is ma
nufactured in various ways for different markets,
I have observed the manufacturers very careful
to preserve all the duft,dirt,and sand that appear
ed to be considerably impregnated with particles
of tobacco, to be sent to the British market, there
to be further compounded with glass, and other
llernutatives, and then fold for genuine pulveri
zed tobacco, or fnuff. This is probably the rea
son why the French manufacture of that article,
though not always pure and unadulterated, is
in much higher eftiniation in all countries except
America, where I am told there are tliofe who
still prefer the British fnuff.*
If the various modesof manufacturing tobacco,
suitable to all the different markets in Europe
were perfectly understood in America, and rigo
rously pursued in all its branches, vast numbers
of now idle people might soon be profitably em
ployed ; workmen in every branch may be easily
procured from Europe, with all the different ma
chines,or the models—the business would occupy
young and old in the various operations—it is
less injurious to health than almost any other ma
nufacture—it would open an extensive trade and
correspondence, and draw large returns from al
most every foreign country : ltistliemoft simple
of all arts, and therefore easily acquired at any
age, and is probably one of the inoft important
and lucrative objects, that at this particular pe
riod could poflibly occupy the attention of the
New England States.
In the town of Dunkirk, another free port in
French Flanders, large quantities of American
tobacco are also manufactured, I have frequently
seen Dutch ships loading there with the stalks and
other ligneous parts of that weed to be carried
to Holland, there to be manufactured into fnuff
for particular markets. —Sweet,' precious, won
der-working weed ! that haft the powerful charm
to crown the zest of rich luxurious feafts, and to
beguile the pangs of poverty ! Tobacco is also
supposed to poflefs great medicinal virtues, its
anti-septic qualities were particularly remarked
so early as the year i66j, when the plague raged
in London and carried off near seventy thousand
inhabitants : Various narrators of that melan
choly event have observed, that the tobacconists
in general escaped the contagion, and that the
remarkable preservation of the inhabitants in
their neighbourhood could be attributed to no o
ther cause but the virtues of tobacco. The
Spaniards and Dutch, particularly those of their
colonies finoke continually, believing it to be not
only in itfelf salutary, but the most effectual pre
servative against the fatal effects of the humid
vapours, and other noxious exhalations continu
ally rifingfrom the vast bodies of putrid stagnant
waters, as also against all other baneful effluvia
that commonly abouYid, and contaminate the air
in all low, flat, and hot countries. And it is a
well known fact that the Dutch in Surinam,
and the Spaniards in New-Orleans, are much
less subject to the endemial diseases of those sub
aqueous torrid countries, than the most tempe
rate of every other nation who reside there,
and make less use of that weed. I knew two
Spaniards in New-Orleans, who kept servants
constantly in waiting in the night, for the sole
purpose of lighting their fegars as often as they
waked, such was their faith in the virtues of to
bacco. Ido not recollect to have seen a Portu
gueze in Lisbon, male or female of any age make
* This ias been the cafe —but the citizens of the United States
have learnt better—the manufacture of fnuff is now carried on so
cxtenfively, and it is made of so excellent a quality, that all im
portation of that article has entirdjeeafed for a long time —in the
Stateof Majfachufctts,ConneSicut, Pcnnfylvania,&. N. York,fuch large
worksare ere&ed.as tofurnilh fufßcient quantities for home con
sumption, and a large furplusfor exportation. —The inuff mills
of Mr. Elliot in the neighborhood of Boston, are conftrufted tip
on a mod ingenious and extensive plan—they attract the attention
ot all foreigners who visit that part of the Union —and are con-
Itantly resorted to as a grrat curiosity by the ingenious from all
parts of the continent.—We promile ourselves the pleasure of
giving some particulars of this manufactory, in some future
number.
[Publijh-'d on Wednesday and Saturday ,~\
use of fpe<!tacles, but have often with surprize
remarked in very old people the unfaded lustre
of their eyes, and have not been able to afiign a
more probable cause of their preservation, than
the universal cuilom of taking fnulF, which pre
vails in no finall degree ofexcefs among all ranks,
ages and sexes : It cannot fairly be imputed to
any particular quality in the air or climate, as
the many English who reside there, and who will
not conform to the custom of taking frTuff, par
ticularly the ladies because they think it un
cleanly, can boast no advantage in this particu
lar over the inhabitants of the island of Great
Britain. The French Snuff made of the tobacco
from the United States, is greatly prefered by
the Portugueze to the fnuff manufactured in their
own country of the Brazil tobacco, but it is pro
hibited, and therefore only to be obtained in
small quantities by special indulgence. There
is very little danger of the Portugueze being able
to rival us at any market in that article —their
tobacco for exportation is chiefly manufactured
in one particular way, principally for the African,
trade, the privilege is fanned, and therefore ex
tlufive ; they use a vast quantity of molafles in the
process, which is supposed to be a great preserva
tive in hot climates ; the common, and I believe
almost invariable price, is two thousand, eight
hundred and eighty reis for an arobe, which is
about fix pence sterling the pound.
A very extensive and lucrative trade with Por
tugal may beeftablifhed,when a permanent peace
with all the Barbary powers shall render the inter
course less dangerous. They are atprefent prin
cipally supplied by the English and Irish with
fifh, grain, pulse, pork, beef, butter, cheese/and
many other articles, which with due care and at
tention, might be furnifhcd as good and cheap,
and some of them better and cheaper from Ame
rica : It is found by an accurate investigation,
that seven thousand, seven hundred bushels of
wheat are con fumed daily in the city of Lisbon
only, exclusive of barley, indian corn, and
other grain, as also hard bread and pulse.
E. C.
SKETCH OF THE POLITICAL STATE OF AMERICA.
PERHAPS no country, pretending to nnder
ftand so well the faience of government, and other
principles of political economy which tend to the
prosperity and welfare of a nation, that pracfti
fes so little upon them, as this.—lt is high time
that America Ihould quit herleadingfirings, and
feel the difference between her present situation
and what it was when subject to a foreign yoke.
It will not fufficethat in unmeaning words we as
sert the importance of our Independence; nor shall
we be able to realize its just effects, or meet with
that respect fromother nations which is paid to the
different sovereignties of the world, till weftrive
to conquer the inveterate habits and prejudices
imbibed by our mode of education—no longer
fuffering our commercial concerns to be regula
ted by the caprice of a foreign power, and made
alone subservient to her intcreft.—lt is time that
this country Ihould begin to trade on its own capi
tal, and not continue to be the slave or hireling
of an imperious matter.—lt will be said that we
are yet young and poor, wanting the aid of a
borrowed capital.—l venture to aflert that while
we go on to borrow it on the present disadvan
tageous terms we lhall be ever poor and helpless.
There is no doubt under certain circumstances
and conditions, that credit is of eflential service
in assisting the growth of a young country, and
the progress of infant manufactures—but credit
often holds out a specious benefit which is not in
the end realized ; therefore its nature & tendency
ought to be carefully examined, before we can
determine its benefit. Prior to the revolution,
and while we were a component part of the Bri
tifli empire, our interests were united and such
exclusive advantages given to the trade of this
country, that the credit then had from their mer
chants, was doubt!efs serviceable in promoting
our increase and strength*— It was then that we
could discharge the loan by the product of the
business in which the borrowed capital was em
ployed—Our Ihips, fifh, lumber and oil, the na
tural exports of the country formed our remit
tances, and the exchange was from 5 to 10 per
cent, in our favor ; but we are now totally exclu
ded from the advantage of such returns, and com
pelled to seek other markets for these articles,
paying repeated commissions on their negociation,
in order to avail ourselves of the solid coin which
seems to be almost the only property receivable
in payment for many luxuries, but ill suited to
the consumption of a young country continually
pleading its poverty, while the rate of exchange,
generally the best criterion by which to deter
mine the benefit of a trade, forms a deduction ofxo to iJ pr cant, from what it wa> formerly: Can
credit 011 thsfe ce -.ns De to oar beuelc ? Is it no.
rather toocir ruin ! and (hill we urge our prefenc
im.n; ife load of deb. to i -eat Britain as areafon
why we hould accumulate inj.-e and more, link
deeper anl deeper : ic un kby incereit, bat the
tyranny of habit alone, that we are kept in bon
dage—as France oil the one fide, and Holland on
the other, p efents many advantages as our en
couragement to fabllitute an open trade with them
in lieu of our present injurious traffic with Eng
land : The former is not inferior to Great Britain
in any manufactures, except Hardware—her
lilks, cambrics, Sic. are farfuperior and cheaper,
though (much to our benefit) we cannot there
obtain extensive credits—yet for what we may
purchase ihe will receive in pay our ihips, tobac
co, oyl, naval stores, and other natural exports,
while in her extensive coafling trade a large num
ber of our veflelsinay find employ, and 011 condi
tion wewill not interfere with her carrying trade
from thence to Europe, she will consent to open a
free trade to her Weft-Indies.—We can obtain
from Germany through Holland the best of cut
lery and other hard ware, where our rice has
for some years formed a better remittance than
to any other part of Europe, and with whom
owing to their large capitals—extensive pofleflions
in that country —knowledge of the trade, and
cheapness of navigation we can obtain many In
dia articles of our consumption, on better terms
than in our present direct intercourse ; for spices
we are altogether indebted to them—and many
are the political motives whichmuft operate with
us to preserve a good understanding with that
country. —It will be found not only advantageous
but necellary to the extension of her commerce,
that America should have her Consuls and other
public agents in many of the great; ports of Eu
rope, to ascertain their relative commercial in
terefis with this country—explore the benefits of
a connection with thein, to be bottomed on ex
plicit contrad: or treaty, and not fubjecfl to the
uncertain tenure of legislative decrees.
AMERICANUS.
NEW-YORK, AUGUST 1789.
EUROPEAN CONTINENTAL INTELIGENCE,
in britf—(by arrivals at the Eajlward)—(laics,
THAT a quadruple alliance has been enter
ed into by Ruma, Austria, France and Spain
I hat all hostilities between Sweden and Den
mark are at an end—
That Rullia is at length listening to terms of
accommodation—and that Great Britain is to be
the principal mediator among the belligerent
powers—
1 hat the Emperor of Germany has so far reco
vered as to dine in public—
That the Turkish army on the right bank of
the Danube consists of 150,000 men ■"
That the Turks were compleatly routed in a
late atftion with the Ruffians, in Moldavia, and loft
two pachas with their artillery
That the Austrian army amounts to 276,600
men, exclusive of artillery and volunteers
That notwithstanding the rumours of peace,
every appearance indicated a bloody campaign-
That feverallkirmiflies hadtaken place,in which
as usual, the Turks fell by thousands, while their
enemies had only a few men wounded, and lbnie
horses killed or taken—
T tiat England and Holland are endeavoring to
mediate between the belligerent powers, &c.—
That the King of Great Britain is in such a state
of health as to be incapable of attending to pub
lic business : He is affliifted with an extreme lassi
tude—that for the benefit of his health he is go
ing to Hanover, the Queen herfelf, with her own
hand, having written a letter to the King of Prussia
upon that fubje<ft!—
That a duel has been fought between Colonel
Lenox, and the Duke of York—the occafton of
which was, that the Duke hadfaid, that foinebody
laid something which Col. Lenox heard, and which
Col. Lenox ought to have resented—and because
the Duke would not name the person who had
thus fp .ken,they met—Col. Lenox fired, by which
the Royal Duke had his curl grazed—but did not
return the fire—all this is attested by two noble
men, Rawdon and Winchelsea—
That the King's dearly beloved foil, Prince
William Henry, is made Duke of Clarence, &c
That the friends to humanity, in the Britifti
House of Commons, were exerting themselves to
efFecft the abolition of the slave trade—but were
opposed by planters, their agents, merchants,
tradesmen and manufacturers who were interelled
in the trade, and who were bringing in their pe
titions from all quarters.
On Monday arrived his Britaanic Majcfly's Packet,
Duke of Cumberland, Capt. Deakf., in 52 days
from Falmouth and Halifax : By this arrival we
have procured the following articles of
EOROPEAN INTELLIGENCE :
HAMBURGH, MAY 19.
WE learn from Peterlburgh, that the ice with
which the Neva was covered, entirely disappear
ed on the 30th of last month ; the river had been
frozen one hundred and sixty four days.
The Armistice betwixt Sweden and Denmark,
| has been prolonged to the 24th of June.
VENICE, MAY 13.
The new Sultan has made no alteration in the
counsels of the Turks : The Reis Effendi, has de
clared to the ambafladors of France and Spain,
who are very pressing in their offers of mediation,
" That he has orders not to liflentoany propor
tions concerning peace, unless the preliminaries
were on an entire restitution of all conquests ;
the renunciation of the supremacy of the Empress
of Russia over the 1 artars, and the independence
of the Crimea."
VIENNA, MAY IJ.
Our august Sovereign is again ill—the day be
fore yesterday his Majesty was seized with a fever,
which continued lor twenty-four hours. He fuf
fers greatly from an obftrucfted respiration.
They w.ite from Crotia, that on the 12th of
April, 1000 Turkiih cavalry, attacked a post of
the Bannat—five villages belonging to the Bos
nians, which were under the imperial protection,
experienced the fury of the enemy ; all the men
were immediately put to the sword— 104 women
and boys, 6000 horned cattle, 108 horses, and 507
goats were carried and three small towns all
burnt to allies.
The enemy, after this, retired to the village of
Pograzi, where they fold the booty to the belt bid
ders—a Turk purchased two women and four
children for 600 florins.
CONSTANTINOPLE, APRIL 8.
Our new Sultan, Selim lIId. hasrefufed all sub
sidies for carrying cm the war, and has given or
ders to open the treasury of the crown, and to
employ its contents in conquering the infidels.
It is remarked here, that this is the firft time a
Sultan ever took such a resolution. This circum
fiance has not a little contributed to increase the
afFecftions of his new fubjecfts.
A Ruffian cutter which failed from hence 11
days since, returned the day before yesterday with
a Swedish corvette, mounting t2 guns, which she
took, after an obstinate in which the Ruf
fians loft one officer and five seamen.
PARIS, MAY tB.
M. de Lamoignon, late keeper of the feaJs, died
at his castle ofßaville, on the 16th inft.
LONDON, JUNE J.
Thegreat question which now occupies thepub
lic mind in Paris, is, whether the Three Estates of
which the aflembly of the States General is com
pof'ed shall fit in one room, form but one body,
and carry its resolves by the majority of members
prefenr, without diflincftion of rank, as was the
cafe in the parliament of Scotland*
Or whether they shall form three diftinifl bo
dies, voting in dilferent houses, and each having
a power, as in the parliament of England, to put
a negative on the arts of the other.
1 lie clergy seem to be animated with that spirit
of concord which religion inspires, and which
prompts them to mediate between the nobles and
the commons, who appear determined to stand as
far asunder as they can.
The commons lent a deputation on the nth of
May, to what we may call the house of lords, to
invite the nobles to meet the clergy and commons
in one common aflembly, to try jointly the valid
ity of the returns on elections of the different
members of the three orders.
Ihe Duke de Liancourt made a very elegant
and able speech, the object of which was, to per
suade the lords to accede tothe requisition of the
Commons ; but on a division, he found himfelf
in a very small minority.
The nobles resolved that the following answer
should be sent tothe commons: ' That the nobles
having already made a considerable progress in
trying the returns of their members, that work
could not then be carried on in common by Three
Estates; and that the commons not having noti
fied their powers, and fliewu them to be accord
ing to law, could not yet be considered as law
fully aflembled, andconfequently could not com
municate with the other two orders."
'I he second part of this answer had been recog
nized as well founded by the commons themselves,
who have hitherto afl'umed the denomination on
ly of " Citizens aflembled by the King's com
mand, and not the name of the Third Estate,
met in general aflembly.
The nobles having dispatched this answer to
the commons, began to consider " whether the
House could then legally proceed to business,
though the representatives of the nobility of se
veral diftridishad not yet arrived, and taken their
feats."
To bring the question to a point, the following
resolution was moved :
" That the returns of almost all the members
present having been examined, and recognized
as legal, the house was fufficiently formed to be
able to procecd to make orders for its own inter
nal government, until by the arrival of all its
members, it should be complete, and authorised
to proceed on the business of the nation."
This motion was very warmly debated ; it was
carried, however, on a division, by a maioritv of
168. Ayes - . in.
Noes - . 2J
On Saturday last a general meeting of the fub
f'cribers to tlie Aflociation for promoting the dif
covery ofthe Interior parts of Africa, was heldat
the St. Alban's tavern, where an account of the
proceedings of the committee during the pait y ea r
and of tlie interesting intelligence which had been
received in the couife of it, particularly f rora
the late Mr. Ledyard, was submitted to their
confidei ation. By this intelligence every doubt
ol the practicability of the objetft for which the
society was inftituttd is removed ; and as fe-veral
persons have offered themselves as candidates to
succeed the late Mr. Ledyard in the service ofthe
Ailociation, there is reafoii to suppose that the
knowledge already obtained will loon be follow,
ed by more extensive discoveries.
June J. The Have traders, forefeeing that the
British Parliament are determined to put an end
to the commerce of the Human Species,have
given orders to their Captains on the coast to pur.
chafe as many young women as possible. The
reason is, that as the planters, after the abolition
law takes place, mult depend for llaves on their
stock, and the negro men being in a proportion
of three or four to one woman, females will he
wanting to establish a proper system of population.
A letter from Ireland fays, Mr. Sheridan,
speaking in the King's Bench on Wednesday, in
defence of a Printer of a morning paper, said,—
" Though I admitall that folemii apathy can fug
geftagainft tlie licentiousness of the press, let us
remember, that it is a public creditor, to which
religion, morality, liberty, genius, and science
are much indebted—let ns not forget, that it pre
served the constitution of our filler kingdom, and
restored our own. If therefore, in its freedom,
it fometiines goes astray : if in alfuming the office
of a Roman Censor it may fonietimes ti e'pafs, let
it be controled, but let it be controled as a favorite
child, with caution, and with lenity, leftyoura
jure its health, and break its spirit."
Extrafl from the Speech of M« Neckar, fpdtn it
the opening of the States General, 9 th Ma).
" The time will probably come, gentlemen,
in which you will aflociate in your deliberations
the deputies of the colonies, and will cast a look
of companion on that unhappy race of men, who
have been hitherto cooly considered only as the
objeifts of a barbarous traffic—men similar to
ourselves in the faculty of thought, and especi
ally so in the forrowful one of fuffering. Men,
neverthclefs, whom deaf to their lamentations,
we croud, we heap in the holds of ourveflels,in
order to convey them to the bondage which awaits
them in our islands.
" What nation can with more propriety than
France endeavor to mitigate a system of slavery,
supposed to be ncceHary, by substituting for the
evils inseparable from the African trade, (evils
which destroy the inhabitants of the new world
and of the old) that foltering care which would
end to multiply in our colonies a people intended
to aflift us in their cultivation ?
" A diltinguifhed nation has already given the
(lgnal—a token of her discernment and compaf
(ion ; humanity hath already found a defence
even 111 personal interest and political calcnlarion,
and before long her glorious cause will find ad
vocates at the tribunal of every nation. Ah!
what tranfeendent fatisfaCtion, what accuinula
ion of honor is in reserve for these fittings of
our General States, now they are revived in the
midst of an enlightened age."
Extrafls from the lnjlruttions of foiue of th: Bv
liwicks in France, relating to the abohthn of tke
Slave Trade.
Noblefle of Beauvois.-*—" That the States Ge
neral take into consideration the situation of the
negroes in our colonies."
Clergy of Melunand Moret.—" Seeing that in
the eye of religion, difference of color cauft s
none among her children, her ministers cannoi
forbear perpetually to exclaim against the slave
ry of negroes in the colonies."
Tiers etat of Chateau Kierry.—" The third
estate, considering that France hath been at all
times an asylum for Kings, and the proteftrefsot
opprefled nations : That slavery itfelf, on breath
ing the air of her happy climate, becomes free,
cannot omit exclaiming against the public out
rage upon humanity and upon the nation, occa
sioned by the commerce and slavery of the ne
groes, not desiring, however, to prevent tic
measures neceflary to be taken to guard again
detriment to the cultivation ofthe colonies.
Noblefle of Montes and Mudon.—" We a "
recommend to him to propofean examination in
to the means of destroying the slave trade, aw
preparing for the deftrucftion of the fl3veiy 0
the blacks ; and we must be permitted to wilhna
Faance may have the honor of effacing the la
vestiges of this degradation of human nature.
Clergy of the fame.—" Disgusted humanity
ought to hold out to the nation reprefente 1
the States General, an abuse by which every cC
ing mind is wounded. This abuse is the f|> 3 ®
fill right that man has afliimed of buying h>s e
low man ; of depriving him of liberty, ' u J fl '• (t him to rigorous and continual labor, and
to the end of his life, the vi<ftim of
"price and cruelty. The King, therefore, should
be petitioned to encourage the refpe.ftable Society
f Friends to the Blacks, and to authorise them
to conlider, and to propose to government the
most proper means of abolilhing the infamous
tommerce of the Have trade.'*
Mr. Wilberforce in an energetic, pathetic
and ingenious speech inforced his plan for the a
bolition of the Have trade. , .
This speech was complimented and reinforced
by Meflrs. Burke, Fox, and the Right Hon.
William Pitt, who obfervecl, that as far as he
had been able to form any judgment on the fub
ieft, he was decidedly of opinion, that no fnb
ftantial reason could possibly be alledged to jufti
fy the continuance of the slave trade."
revenue department.
THE Preside nt of the United States has been pleased to nominate,
„d so, and with the advice and consent of the Senate, to appoint the fol
low persons to the offices in the Revenue, affixed to their respective
urns—To their commjions during the pteafure of the President:
For the State of NEW-HAMPSHIRE.
Portfmovth.
Joseph Whipple, collettor.
£lea2er Russell, naval officer.
Thomas Martin, surveyor.
For the State of MASSACHUSETTS.
Newbury-port.
Stephen Cross, colled or.
Jonathan Titcomb, naval officer.
Michael Hodge,purveyor.
Gloucejler.
Epes S'ascent, Collettor.
Samuel Whittemorf., surveyor.
Salem and Beverly,
Joseph Hi l ler, gollettor.
William Pic km an, naval officer.
Bartholomew Putnam, surveyor.
Beverly.
Josiah Bachelder,furveyor.
Ipswich.
Jeremiah Stani ford, surveyor.
Marblehead.
Richard Harris, collector.
Boflon and Charleflown.
Benjamin 1 incoln, collettor.
James Lov ell, navalofficer.
Thomas Melvi 11, surveyor.
Plymouth.
William Watson, collettor.
Barnjlable.
Joseph Otis, collettor.
Sherburne. Nantucket»
Stephen Hussy, collettor.
Edgar town.
John Pease, collettor. •
New Bedford.
Edward Pope,collettor.
Dighton.
Hooijah Bay lies, collettor,
York.
Richard Tr evett, collettor.
Biddeford and Pepperelborough.
Jeremiah Hill, coll ttor.
Portland.
Jj. F. Fosdick, collettor.
James Lunt, surveyor.
Bath.
William Webb, collettori
Wifcajf:t.
Francis Cook, collettor.
Penobfcot.
John Lee, collettor.
Frenchman's Bay.
Melatiah Jordan, collettor.
Machias.
Stephen Smith, collettor.
Pafj'imaquody.
Lewis F. Delesdernier, collettor.
For the State of CONNECTICUT.
New London.
Jf.didiah Huntington, collettor.
Nathaniel Richards, surveyor.
Stonington.
Jonathan Palmer, collettor.
Middletown.
Ash Eft Mi ller,furveyor.
New Haven.
Jona. F itch,collettor.
Heze. Roce ks, surveyor.
Fairfield.
Samuel Smedley, collettor.
For the State of NEW YORK.
Sag Harbor. «
John Gelston,collettor.
New York.
John Lamb, collettor.
Benjamin Walker, navalofficer.
John La&hlr,furveyor*
City of Hudson.
John C. Ten Broek.furveyor.
City of Albany.
Jeremiah Lansing,furveyor.
For the State of NEW JERSEY.
Perth Amboy.
John Halste ad, collettor.
Burlington.
John Ross, collettor.
Bridgetown.
-Li Elmer, collettor.
For the State of PENNSYLVANIA.
Philadelphia.
Sharp Delany, collettor.
1 red. Phi le, naval officer.
Sam. Meredith,furveyor.
For the State of DELAWARE.
Wilmington.
Geo. Bush, eolkttor.
For the State of MARYLAN D.
Baltimore.
tho H. Williams, collettor.
obert Purviance, naval officer,
Qbert Ball a rd, funeyor.
Chefler.
John Scott, coltedor.
Oxford.
Jeremiah Banning, collettor.
Vienna.
John MuiEß,ttiMo?.
Snow Hill.
JohwGunby, collettor.
Annapolis.
John Davidson, collettor.
Nottingham.
Geo. Bi sco, collettor.
Town Creek.
Robert Young,fnrveyor.
Nanjemoy.
John Coates Jones, collettor. 4
v St. Mary's.
Robert Chesley, surveyor.
George Town.
James McCubbin Lingham, colleclot.
For the State of VIRGINIA,
Hampton.
Jacob Wray, collector.
Norfolk and Portsmouth.
Wm. Lindsay, collector.
Philemon Gate wood, naval officer.
Daniel Bedinger, surveyor.
Suffolk.
Archibald Richardson,furveyor.
Smithfeld.
James Wells, surveyor.
Bermuda Hundred.
WM. HET H , collector.
Chris. Roan y surveyor.
Peterjbnrgh.
John Gibbons, surveyor.
York Town.
Abraham Archer, collector.
Wef -Point.
John Spots wood Moore, surveyor.
Tappahannock.
Hudson Muse, collector.
Urbanna.
Stage Davis, surveyor.
Port Royal.
Geo. Cattl ett, surveyor.
Fredericfburg.
Wm. Lewis,furveyor.
Yeocomico. including Kivfale.
Vincent Redman, collector.
Dumfries, including Newport.
Richard Scott, collector.
Alexandria.
Charles Lee, collector.
Samuel Hanson, surveyor.
Cherry Stone.
George Savage, collector.
South Key.
Thomas Bowne, collector.
Loufville.
PeyTon Short, collector.
For the State of SOUTH CAROLINA*
George Town.
John Cockdel l, collector.
Charlejlon.
Geo. Abbot Hall, collector.
Isaac Mott, naval officer.
Edward Way man , surveyor.
For the State of GEORGIA.
Savanna.
John Habbersham, collector.
John Berrian,furveyor.
Sunbury.
Cornelius Collins > collector.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES.
MONDAY, AUGUST 3, 1789.
The engrofled bill for regulating the coasting
trade, &c. was read a third time, and on motion,
recommitted to be taken up to-morrow.
The bill for eftablifliing a land-office for the
western territory was read a second time, ant]
made the order of the day for Thursday.
Mr. Sherman had leave of absence for one
week;
The bill to provide for the fafe keeping of the
a&s, records, great seal, <stc. was read, and made
the order of the day for Friday.
Ordered that 100 copies of each of these bills
be printed for the members.
The report of the committee on amendments,
was, on motion of Mr. Madison, made the or
der of the day for Wednesday fe'nnighti
Mr. Benson introduced a resolution to this
purport. —That a committee be appointed, to join
a committee of the Senate toconlider, and report
when it will be convenient for Congress to ad
journ ; also, to report what business now before
Congress mud neceflarily be attended to previous
to a recess, and what will be proper to postpone
till the next felfion—laid on the table.
The bill for eftablifliing the treasury depart
ment, with the amendments proposed by the Se
nate being read, were acceded to in part —the
consideration of two articles was postponed til]
to-morrow.
The bill for eftablifliing light-houses, beacons,
buoys and public pisrs, as sent down from the Se
nate with the amendments, was taken into con
sideration, and the several amendments acceded
to on the part of the House.
The bill for allowing compensations for their
services to The President and Vice-Presi
dent of the United States, was taken up—and
on motion of Mr. Smith (of S. C.) a claufewas
added to the bill, by which The President is to
have the use of furniture and other effects, now
in his pofleflion, belonging to the United States.
The bill was then pafled to be engrofled for a
third reading to-morrow —and then the House ad
journed.
TUESDAY, AUCUST 4.
Mr. Heister presented a petition trom the in
habitants of Cumberland county, State of Penn-"
fylvania, praying that the feflions of the P'ederal
Courts, may not be reftridted to the city of Phila
delphia—laid on the table.
The engrossed bill for allowing acompenfation
to The President, and Vice-Prelident, for their
services, was read a third time, and palled to be
ena&ed.
Mr. Ames presented a petition from Dudley
Tyler, an officer in the late continental army,
praying for an allowance for services, which had
not been compensated—laid on the table.
Mr. Huntington presented a memorial from
Chriflopher Collins stating, that he had invented a
Perambulator i.pon more fnnple and adequate
principles, than has hitherto been discovered ;
and praying for an exclulive right to use and im
prove the fame—laid on the table.
Mr. White of the Handing committee to ex
amine the enrolled bills, presented the bill pro
viding for the government of the western terri
tory, which the committee had examined, and
found correcft —the Speaker then signed the fame.
Mr. Burke of the Committee appointed for
thepurpofe, brought in a bill for allowing a com
pensation to the members of both Houses, and to
their refpecftive officers : This bill provides that
the compensation ffiall be as follows, viz.
To each member of the Senate and House, Six
Dollars, pr, day.
Speaker of the House Twelve Dollars pr. day.
To the Secretary of the Senate, and Clerk of
the House each, Fifteen Hundred Dollars, a year,
and Two Dollars a day, each, during the fellion
oftlie Legislature :—One principal Clerkto each,
at Three Dollars a day during the session—One
engrossing Clerk to each, at Two Dollars a day
during the session.
Serjeant at Arms, Three Dollars a day during
the session.
Door Keeper to the House and Senate, each,
Seven Hundred and Thirty Dollars a year :
Alfiftant Door Keepers, during the session, One
Dollar and Fifty Cents a day each.
This bill was laid on the table.
Th 6 House then went into a committee of the
whole on the bill for registering and clearing ves
sels, and regulating the coasting trade.
A clause was added to this bill, which provides
for a suspension of the bounty of five cents, on
every barrel of pickled fiffi, every quintal of dri
ed filh and every barrel of salted provisions, ex
ported from the United States, as allowed by the
import law, till after the laftday of July, 1790.
The committee having finiffied this bill, the
Speaker resumed the chair—the House acceded
to the several amendments, and the bill was or
dered to be engrofled for a third reading to
morrow.
Mr. Benson's motion, introduced yesterday
Was taken up, and after a ffiort debate, a commit
tee for the purpose therein mentioned, consisting
of Mr. Carrot, Mr. He'tfler ) and Mr. IVadfiuorth,
was appointed.
The House then resumed the consideration of
the amendments to the treasury bill proposed by
the Senate, on which a decision was postponed
yesterday—a lengthy debate enfuedupon the fub
jecft,. in which the substance of the arguments up
on The President's power of removability, was
repeated, and which terminated in not acceding
to the amendment of the Senate.
The House adjourned at half after 3 o'clock.
NEW-YORK, AUGUST 6 , 1789.
The wifdom,impartiality and independency dis
covered in the appointments to offices in the re
venue, must give general fatisfaction, and were
it possible that mankind could be universally pleas
ed, not a doubt or complaint would be lisped—but
prejudice and Jelf out of the question, it must be
acknowledged on all hands, that policy, justice,
and the public good, have never been more happi
ly blended on any similar occasion.
Every patriotic mind, from this moment will
have its attention turned to the great objects
that prefentupon the operation of the genera] go
vernment : Revenue as has been justly observed is
the nerve of the system—our existence—our public
faith—our honor, reputation and prosperity, es
sentially depend upon a wife, a prompt and faith
ful execution of the revenue laws.—May vigi
lance mark the condtitft of the officers, and may
it be as infamous to defraud the revenue, as to
rob a church.
Perhaps there is no people upon earth better disposed to obey
the laws, than the citizens of the United States : They reason just
ly upon the fubjeft—conceiving that the laws framed by those
whom they depute for purpose, are their own free ast, and
deed—and that violating the rules they themselves have adopted,
is abfyrd, dangerous, and pregnant with mifchief, confufion, and
ruin ; but nevertheless, poflefling the paflions, prejudices, and
weaknesses, incident to human nature—they fee the propriety of
appointing guardians and executors of those laws—every man
therefore who feels the force of those obligations which should
adluate good citizens, will not only cheerfully submit toevcry salu
tary regulation, but will also consider* himlelf bound to aid the
officers of government in the discharge of their duty.
ERRATUM.
In the 2 d col. \JI page, line 3$ from top } of this papcr y for fl rigor
ously*' read vigojoufly.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
IT is agreed that the " people know where the
" shoe wrings—what grievances are most heavy,"
and therefore they Ihould always hold an inde
pendent and eflential part in the legislature, and
be always able to prevent the shoe from wringing
more, and the grievances from being made more
heavy ; they Ihould have a full hearing of all their
arguments, and a full /hare of all consultations,
for easing the foot where it is in pain, and for les
sening the weight of grievances, or annihilating
them : but it is denied that they have right, or
that they Ihould have power, to take from one man
his property to make another easy, and that they
only know " what fences they ftaiyl iu need of to
" shelter them from the injurious aflaults of thole
" powers that are above tliem ;" meaning, by the
powers above them, senators and inagiftrates,
though, properly speaking, there are no powers
above them but the law, which is above all men,
governors and senators, kings and nobles, as well
as commons.
The Americans have agreed with this writer in
the sentiments, " that it is but reason that the
" people ihould fee that none be interelted in the
" supreme authority but persons of their own
" election, and such as mult, in a short time, re
" turn again into the fame condition with them
" selves." This hazardous experiment they have
tried, and, if elections are loberly made, it may
answer very well ; but if parties, factions, drun
kenness, bribes, armies, and delirium, come in, as
they always have done sooner or later, to embroil
and decide every thing, the people mult again
have recourse to conventions, and find a remedy.
Neither pliilofopliy nor policy has yet discovered
any other cure, than by prolonging the duration
of the firft magiltrate and senators. The evil
may be lellened and poltponed, by elections for
longer periods of years, till thej become for life ;
and if this is not found an adequate remedy,
there will remain no otherbut to make them he
reditary. The delicacy or the dread of unpopu
larity, that should induce any man to conceal this
important truth from the full view and contem
plation of the people, would be a weakness, if'
not a vice. As to " reaping the fame benefit or
" burthen by the laws enacted that befals the
" reft of the people/' this will be secured, whe
ther the firft inagiftrate and fenape be elective or
hereditary, as as the people are an integral
branch of the legislature ; can be bound by no
laws to which they have not consented ; and can
be fubjed'.'dto no tax which they have not agreed
to lay. It is agreed that the " ifl'ue of luch a
" constitution," whether the governor and senate
be hereditary or eleiftive, must be this, " that no
u load be laid upon any, but what is common
" to all, and that always by common consent ;
" not to serve the lust of any, but only to sup
" ply the neceflities of their country."
The next paragraph is a figurative flourifh, cal->
culated to ainufe a populace, without informing
their understandings. Poetry and myllics will
answer no good end in difcuflingqueftionsof this
nature. The simple style, the molt mathemati
cal precision of words and ideas, is belt adapted
to discover truth, and to convey it to others, in
reafoningonthisfubjed:. There is here aconfu
fion that is more than accidental—it is artful :—
the author purposely states the question, and
makes the comparison only between simple forms
of government, and carefully keeps out of fight
the idea of a judicious mixture of them all. He
seems to suppose, that the supreme power must
be wholly the hands of a limpie monarch, or
of a single senate, or of the people, and studi
ously avoids considering the sovereignty lodged in
a composition of all three. " When a supreme
" power long continues in the hands of any per
" son or perlons, they, by greatness of place, be
" ing seated above the middle region of the peo
" pie, fit fecurefrom all winds and weathers, and
" from those ltorms of violence that nip and ter
" rify the inferior part of the world." If this is
popular poetry, it is not philosophical reasoning.
It may be made,a question, whether it is true in
fact, that persons in the higher ranks of life are
more exempted from dangers and evils that threat
en the commonwealth than thole in the middle
or lower rank ? But if it were true, the United
States of America have eltablifhed their govern
ments upon a principle to guard against it ; and,
" by a fuccellive revolution of authority, they
" come to be degraded of their earthly godheads,
" and return into the fame conditions with other
" mortals and, therefore, " they must needs
" be more fenlible and tender of what is laid upon
" them."
Our author is not explicit. If he meant that
a fundamental law should be made, that no man
Ihould be chosen more than one year, he has no
where laid so. He knew the nation would not
have borne it. Cromwclland his creatures would
all have detested it ; nor would the members of
the Long Parliament, or other constitutions, have
approved it. The idea would have been uni
versally unpopular. No people in vhe world will
bear to be deprived, at the end of one year, of
the service of their belt men, and be obliged to
confer their fuffrasres, f rom year to vear. on the
next best, until the rotation brings them to the
worst. The men ofgreateft interest and influ
ence, moreover, will govern ; and if they cannot
be chofeu themlelves, they will generally influ
ence the choice of others lb decidedly, that they
may be said to have the appointment, if it is
true that " the strongest obligation that can be
" laid upon a man in public matters, is to fee that
" he engage in nothing but what mult either
" offenfively or,beneficially refWl upon himfelf,"
it is equally true at least in a mixed government
as in a finiple democracy : it is indeed, more
clearly-and universally true, because in the tirft
the reprelentatives of the people beingthe special
guardians of equality, equity, and liberty, for the
people, will not consent to unequal laws ; but in
the second, where the great and rich will have
the greatest influence in the public councils, they
w ill continually make unequal laws in their own
favour, unless the poorer majority unite, which
they rarely do, set up an opposition to them, and
run them down by making unequal laws againlt
them. In every society where property exists,
there will ever be a struggle between rich and
poor. Mixed in one aflembly, equal laws can
never be expedted : they will either be made by
numbers, to plunder the few who are rich, or by
influence, to fleece the many whoare poor. Both
rich and poor, then, must be made independent,
that equal justice may be done, and equal liberty
enjoyed by all. To expert that in a single so
vereign aflembly no load (hall be laid upon any
but what is common to all, nor to gratify the
pailions of any, but only to supply the necelfities
of their country, is altogether chimerical. Such
an aflembly, under an awkward unwieldy form,
becomes at once a finiple monarchy in effe<sl :
some one overgrown genius, fortune, or reputa
tion becomes a despot, who rules the state at his
plealure, while the deluded nation, or rather a
deluded majority, thinks itfelf free ; and in every
relblve, law, and acft of government, you fee the
interest, fame, and power, of that single indivi
dual attended to more than the general good.
(To be continued.)
~L ~0 ~N D 0 N.
HOUSE of COMMONS.
MAY IJ.
The following PROPOSITIONS were fu'bmitted by-
Mr . Wilberfok ce—which wire by consent order
ed to tie on the table.
I.—That the number of (laves, annually car
ried from the coast of Africa, in Britilh veiiels, is
supposed to amount to about 38,000.
That the number annually carried to the Bri
tilh Weft-India islands, has amounted to about
12,500, on an average of four years, to the year
I 787, inclulive.
That the number annually retained in the said
islands, as far as appears by the custom-house ac
counts, has amounted on the fame average, to a
bout 17,500.
11. That much the greater number of the ne
groes, carried Sway by European veiiels, arebro't
from the interior parts of the continent of Africa,
and many of them from a very great distance.
And the slaves may in general be clafled under
some of the following del'criptions 1
1 ft. Prisoners taken in war.
2d. Free persons fold for debt, or 011 account
of real or imputed crimes, particularly adultery
and witchcraft, in which cases they are frequent
ly fold with their own families, and sometimes for
the profit of those by whom they are condemned.
3d. Domestic slaves fold for the profit of their
mailers.
4th. Persons made slaves by various a(fts of op
pression, violence, or fraud, committed either by
the princes and chiefs of those countries on their
fubjefts, or by private individuals on eacli other,
or lastly by Europeans, engaged in this traffic.
111. That the trade carried on by European
nations an the coast of Africa, for the purchase of
slaves has neceflarily a tendency to occasion fre
quent and cruel wars among the natives. To en
courage acfts of opprelfion, violence, and fraud,
and to obstruct the natural course of civilization
and improvements in those countries.
IV. That the continent of Africa,in its present
state, furnilhes several valuable articles of com
merce, highly important to the trade and manu
factures of this kingdom, and which are in a great
measure peculiar to that quarter of the globe.
V.—That the slave trade has been found by ex
perience to be peculiarly injurious and destruc
tive to the Britilh seamen, who have been employ
ed therein.
Vl.—That the mode of transporting the slaves
from Africa to the Weft-Indies, neceflarily expo
ses them to many and grievous fuft'erin'o-s, for
which no regulations can provide an adequate
remedy.
Vll.—That a large portion of the slaves fotranf
pot ted has also perished in the harbours in the
Weft-Indies, previous to their being fold. That
this loss is stated bv the aflembly of the island of
Jamaica, at about four and a half pr. cent, of the
number imported.
Vlll.—That the loss of newly imported negroes
within the firft three years after their importa
tion, bear?, a large proportion to tliewhok num
ber imported.
IX—That the natural increase of pop U i at ;.
among the slaves in the islands, appears to ha
been impeded principally by the follow injrcaufo
i ft. The inequality of the sexes in the i lni ,or'
tations from Africa. A
2d. The general diflblutettefs of manners
mong the slaves, and the want of proper reeul "
tions tor the encouragement of marriages a'"d
of.rearing children. '
;d. The particular difeai'cs which are prevalent
among them, and which are, in some instances
attributed to toofevere labour, or rigorous treat'
ment,and in others to infulficient or improperfW
4th. Tliofc diseases which affe<si a large pro'
portion of negro children in their infancy and
thofeto which the negroes newly imported from
Africa have been found to be particularly liable to
X.—That the whole number of the slaves in the
island of Jamaica, in 1768, was about 167 0M
That the number in 1774, was, as Ha
ted by Gov. Keith, about io;ooo
And that the number in Dec. 1787, as
stated by Lieut. Gov. Clark, vyas
about ' ' * 256,000
Xl.—That the whole number of flares in'the
island of Barbadoes was, in the year 1764, accord
ing to the account given in to the committee of
trade, by Mr. Braithwaite, - y 0
That in 1 774, the number was, by the
lame account - - 74,874
In 1 780, by do. - 6Sj ' 27()
In I 781, after the hurricane, accord
ing to the fame account, - 63,248
In t 786, by do. - * 62,115
Xll.—That the accounts from the Leeward
Islands and from Dominica, Grenada, and St.
Vincent's, do not furniih fufficient grounds for
comparing the state of population in the faidill
aiuls at different periods, withthe number pfflaves
which have been from time to time imported in
to the said islands, and exported therefrom. But
that from the evidence which has been received
ref'pe (fling the present state of these islands, as well
| as of Jamaica and Barbadoes, and from a conli
deration of the means of obviating the causes
which have hitherto operated to impede the na
tural increase of the slaves, and of lefloning the
demand for manual labor, without diminifliing
the profit of the planter, it appears that no con
siderable or permanent inconvenience would re
sult from discontinuing the farther importation
of African slaves.
To the Printers of the Daily Advertiser.
I ENCLOSE y«u a hand-bill, pointing out a modeofpra
venting the dreadful consequences of the BITE of a MAD DOG.
I received this hand-bill a few daytfmce, from Dr. Hagaxth,
a phyficianof great ability and Angular probity, at Chester, in Eng
land. The recommendation of so able and humane a physician,
together with iny own opinion of the efficacy of the modepropo
fed, induce me to request you, and all other printers in the United
State*, to re-print it : and to continue it for some time in the
newspapers, that it may be as generally communicated aspoflible.
I am persuaded, that your regard for humanity, will be a fufficient
motive for complying with what I requrft.
I am your mod' obedient servant,
ARTHUR LEE.
BITE OF A MAD DOG.
NEAR Wrexham, in North-Wales, three men died of canine
madnrfs, in Oftobcr and November, 1788.
These melancholy cases spread a general alarm. But it ought
to give great comfort and fatisfadlion to any one who may be bit,
to know that there is a lafe, easy, and effetlual method ofj>revem
ing the infection ; which can seldom give pain, or require fkill,acd
is in the power ot every pcrfon to employ. It is univerlally al
lowed by physicians that the spittle of a inad animal, infufed into
a wouna, 1$ the only cause hitherto known, that can communi
cate canine madness to the human body. This poison does no
immediate mifchief, but is slowly absorbed into the blood,and
Efficient opportunity is given to remove it, before any danger can
arise. Whenever a person is bit, the plairt and obvious meansof
preventing future injury, is, firft to wipe off the spittle with a dry
cloth, and then to wash the wound with cold water—not (lightly,
and fuperficially, but abundaptly, and with the most persevering
attention, in bad cases, sos several hours. After a plentiful effu
fion of cold water, warm water may be employed with fafety and
advantage; a continued stream of it, poured from the fpoutofa
tea-pot, or tea-kettle, held up at a considerable diihnce, is pecu
liarly well adapted to the purpose. If the canine poison infufed
into a wound were of a peculiar color, as black, like ink, we should
all be aware that plenty of water and patient diligence wduld walK
out the dark die ; but this could not be expected by a flight and
fuperficial ablution. After the full careful washing, «pply to the
bite, saliva, colored with ink, indigo, &c. and by the second wash
• ng, a visible proof may be obtained, how soon and how perfect
ly it can be cleaned out of the wound. As a proof that flight waHi
ing of th« wound is not fufficient to cleanse it effectually from the
poison, we may mention, that in some cases, after inoculation for
the small pox, the poisonous matter has been attempted to be
walhed out of the wound, by peifons who wished to prevent its
v ffe£ts : yet the inoculated small-pox appeared at its proper per
iod . These unfuccefsful attempts were performed lecretly, haflity
and timidly, by a female hand. But, in a cafe when the ablution
was more perfe6Hy performed, inoculation Was prevented from
taking effect, though the patient was susceptible of infection.
They teach us the importance of patient perseverance in wadung
away the poison ; but they need not abate our confidence that i uc 1
perseverance will certainly be fuccefsful. .
The ablution should be accomplished with great diligence, an
without delay, and may be performed bv the patient or any a
fiflant. However, as the apprehension of this dreadful diiord<- r
always excites the grcateft anxiety, a surgeon's advice and affiliate
ought to be obtained as soon as p'offible, in nil cases where the Uijj
is injured. He will execute those directions most dexterously an
completely. In a bad wound, the poison may be conveyed ec P
into the flkfh, by long teeth, or by lacerations. In such circum
ltances, he will open, cup, syringe, and wash every fufpic
place, and whenever any uncertainty can remain, that ma y oC< \j
lion future solicitude, he will previously (have off the fur face, a
cut away the jagged or other parts of the wound —by
of purification it cannot be doubted that every particle 0 po*
and, confcquently, that every cause of danger may be e e
.removed.
PubliThedby JOHN FKNNO, No. 9, MaU> eN "