(bazcffc
[No. XXXVI.]
THE TABLE T.—No. XXXVI.
a Whether the winner laughs or not, the lofsr wih
complain."
THE sources of clamor and disquietude in
any society multiply in proportion as
it becomes opulent and civilized. Nothing is
more evident than that competition is a very for
cible spring at - r ti° n • unless there are more
n)e u than bufinel's, more candidates than offices,
private as well as public affairs will be managed
v itli and inattention. The competitors
are of course engaged in a kind of warfare with
each other ; and are only reflraiued from violent
hostilities by thole fenriments of politeness and
propriety, which are inspired by good-breeding
aid a knowledge of the world. It is eaiy how
ever to distinguish the different lides in which
men range tliemfelves, and the different objects
tbev are pursuing. Those who are rivals may
carry external marks of good-willand confidence,
but the disguise is easily penetrated. As those
■who are dilappointed and discontented form a
more numerous class, than those who are fatisfied
andfucccfsful, it mull be expedled that complaints
and reproaches will give the predominating tone
toconverfation. In whatever company one falls
itmcft not therefore agitate him to find a strong
propensity to complain.
In creating the various branches of the execu
tive department of government, it is natural to
expedthe number of candidate;, will far exceed
the places that are to be filled. This opens a
great scene of competition. The inevitable re
fultcf such a situation is, that many persons must
be disappointed, and foi.ie will be difgulted. It
would be paying too great a compliment to hu
man nature to imagine that, in the great num
ber whole expectations are fruftrated, there will
be none who secretly wish, and even openly de
monstrate theirwifhes, to impede the success, and
blur the reputation of our national government.
There is however a circumftaVice that will mueh,
though perhaps not totally restrain a dilpofition
tocenfure and oppofc the adminifbration.
Itisfo universally believed that our chief ma
gistrate, in all his measures aild appointments is
actuated by just and impartial motives,that few of
the disappointed will think it worth while to raise
clamors. The public ear will be shut against the
infiiroations of the artful, and the reproaches of
the petulant. As reltlefs and discontented men
are more adtive and vigilant, than those who en
joy a fatisfacftion of mind, either from fortunate
affairs, or from a natural calmness of spirits, there
will of course be more people to vex and difturh
the government, than to applaud and vindicate
its proceedings. From this view of the matter,
honest and moderate men, who have the public
prosperity at heart, should guard themselves a
gainllimproper impressions from those, who will
be apt to grumble through envy and disappoint
ment. There are unavoidably a great proportion
of persons in every society, who may be denomi
nated unfortunate. Whether their ill luck is the
elreCt of imprudence, or merely adverse fortune
it may have the fame influence on their temper,
andjudging by their own feelings,they may seri
ously imagine every thing is going wrong. In
every community fucli men are capable of doing
great mifchief. Thepeopleof the United States
are too well experienced in political tranfatftions
to be easily deceived, and drawn into tumult and
(Mentions. But still there is in human nature a
strong propensity to take part with the unfortu
nate, and to believe their complaints have some
foundation. (To be continued.)
We are happy to have it in our power to enrich the
Mifccllanj of the Gazette, by the f allowing specula
tion on the interesting jtibi. Sis of
REPRESENTATION and COMPENSATION.
I RECOLLECT but one good reason for a nu
merous representation of the people-—that is, the
greater certainty of having their interests and
faitiments understood in the representative af
lembly. The objects of the national government
we not the local, but the general concerns. Of
fourfe, a moderate number is fufficient. Refpon
"bility decreases as the body increases. In a small
embly a member has more to do, and more to
answer for. He is more in public view, and feels
'Sindnftry, and his generous paflions excited by
Mroiiger ftimutus. In a numerous aflcmbly he
eels his personal weight and influence diminifh
c ■ The members will a<sl less as individuals,
? more by combinations and parties. If a man
« not great talents, singly, he can do little. If
e has, he gains an ascendency, and attaches many
,? ' s Viexv s. Their aflociation is cemented by
los ac ting together—by the fear of
o ing a tavovite point—by the anger ori having
Jj.- 1 P^ted— by the joy of gaining it, or the cha
a By degrees the two
SATURDAY, August lij3g.
fides are divided, strongly marked and agitated
by the spirit of their body (l'efprit de corps, as
the trench term it.) In faCt, all great afleniblies
have been led astray by the spirit of party. Per
haps all parties are nearly equally^-indiCtive,vio
lent and blind. The true check upon them is
the interpofitionof the public sentiment. A free
press, and an enlightened people will form a con
foul over all parties ; and oblige them to seek
the means of superiority and power by the pro
motion of the public good. Party spirit is an
evil ; but it is the inevitable confequence.of a nu
merous aflembly. It is not, however, impoilible
to draw good from evil. These are the confe
rences which result from the principles; but it
is obviously preferable to exclude the evil, if pofli
ble. 1 hough parties may promote the public
good, they often do infinite mifchief. Tlieydif
turb the tranquility, impair the happiness, and
endanger the fafety of lociety.
Whether it is polfible so to constitute a small
aflembly as wholly to banilh, or in a considerable
degree to restrain this spirit, is a problem of some
nicety. Its solution is highly important to man
kind, and especially to the United States. A go
vernment strong by the means of a rich treasury,
by troops, and by the habits of a people broken to
lubjection may be disturbed, but will not be en
dangered by party disputes. But in Ameriea,
government reds on public opinion, and we
lhould carefully avoid those causes which are
powerful enough to subvert its foundations.
In forming a legillative aflembly, we should
counteract as much as poflible the gregarious dis
position of the members, which is the aliment of
faction. It will be neceflary to analyze the hu
man character, and to lay open the motives which
lead public men to combine together, and to act
in parties. It is true that a public life calls forth
the strongest paflions of the heart. But it is also
true that these paflions are not continually in ac
tion. On great and rare occasions, they are rou
sed to aCt with violence. But ordinarily they are
held suspended by motives oflefs strength, but of
a more uniform and permanent influence. These
motives are the fenfeof weakness, the love of ease,
and the love of power.
Suppose a member of csmmon ability in an as
sembly of fifty. He has a fiftieth part of the du
ty, as well as of the weight of the body. Increase
the aflembly to two hundred members. His voice
will lose three fourili's of its influence. He
will lose more of his responsibility—be further
removed from public view—and as party influence
will be more active, he will probably loose nine
tenths of his personal weight, and his vote will
become proportionably oflefs consequence to his
conflituents, and to the public. Suppose him a
weak but well intentionedman, hisfenfe of weak
ness and sense of duty will combine to subject him
to the influence of some leading member. Know
ing that his voice will not govern the vote of any
other, and doubting how to give his own, he will
relieve his fufpence by following the guide in
whom he places most confidence.
The love of ease is a more powerful agent than
is generally fuppoled. It is the greatelt impedi
ment to eminence. Reft is the reward of labor,
and the hope of this reward is probably one ofthe
springs of action, even with those men who seem
to abhor repose. We compare action with reft.
We calculate the value of the object proposed to
be attained by our exertions, and the price of
those exertions. A member conscious of being
able to effect little, singly, will not make the at
tempt. He will be obliged to add his strength to
a party. There is something unaccountable in
the fympathv of many minds. Probably a large
aflembly of the wisest men would not be wholly
exempt from that distrust of their own under
standings, and that complacency towards the er
rors and wishes of one another which has been
found totally to banish reason, and even human
ity, from mobs and riotous meetings.
That the administration of a government should
correspond with its principles, and be secured
from faction and commotion, it seems to be im
portant that the legislative powers should be lod
ged in as few hands as may be neceflary for pro
curing information of the stare of the society,
and that they fliould be carefully selected from the
best informed and best disposed citizens—men,
who understand, and are able to manage business,
and who, in a body of fifty, are individually im
portant, will act more according to the dictates
of tlieir own understandings, and be less influen
ced by party paflions than the aflembly of two
hundred. The great question of the Conftituiion
had divided the community. It was natural to
expect the newCongrefs would be tinctured with
the hue of the rival parties. It is not owing to
any miracle, suspending the human paflions, that
the national legislature has been so remarkably
rPublijhid on Wednesday and Saturday.
diftingiiiilied by the spirit of candor and mode l "
ation. Nothing like faction or cabal and intrigu e
has been charged upon that body—and the pub
lic are disposed to think favorably of their patri
otism and independency of fentiinent. Two
events may be contemplated, either of which
would wholly change the character and conduct
of the aflembly ; increasing the number of the
members would expose the government to fac
tion—it would diminilh the agency of the under-
Handing, and augment that of the paflions. Im
proper persons would more easily get elected.
For the number of suitable perlons is not great
in any country—of these, many will be indisposed
to the duty. Probably, this country is as little
deficient in this refpedt as any whatever. If how
ever more representatives are to be elected than
a due proportion of those who are willing and
qualified to serve, the probability of inferior can
didates being elecled will rife. Learned men
have disputed whether so large a territory could
remain united under one government, even if the
administration lhould beentrufted to men of con
summate wisdom and incorruptible virtue. The
chance would be made considerably more unfa
vorable by the appointment of men of a different
character.
To make the people happy, and the govern
ment permanent, two principles mult be regard
ed. That the members of the legislature be few,
and that provision should be made for drawing
forth the belt qualified citizens to serve.
In a republic, it is not neceflary, perhaps not
fafe, that a citizen lhould be allowed, and surely
he lhould not be obliged to lay the public under
obligations of gratitude to him by serving at a
loss. Pay for services is as republican as it is
equitable. Adequate compensation may be un
derstood very varioully in its application to parti
cular cases. It niuft always mean such compen
sation as will secure to the public the perform
ance of the services in question. If the pay of the
members of the Legislature is eftablilhed at an
higher rate than is neceflary to secure the atten
dance of men belt qualified to serve, it is impro
per. The interest of the people requires the a
doption of the principle infilled upon. Many will
dispute the application of the doctrine to the cale,
though none will deny the docftrine itfelf. The
dispute, if any lhould arise, will be of the left
consequence, because as it is a question of fa<ft
only, no inference unfavorable to the intentions
of thehoufe could be drawn from the tenor of the
bill which has palled the house of representatives.
Those who may happen to be violent on the fub
jetft, will be sorry tofind anyreafons to vindicate
what has been done, because it will disappoint
their pallions of an expeCted gratification. But
candid men will conlider the principles which
have been difcufled in this speculation, and they
will not overlook the rate of compensation which
has been allowed to members of the former Con
gress by the refpcclive States—the average of
which is said to be equal to the fuin proposed by
the bill. They will alio note that that body being
in feflion the whole year was better paid than the
new Congress, which, probably, after the firft
year will not fit more than one fourth of the time,
and that the recefles, and the diminiflied bufmefs
of eighteen hundred members of tlje State Legi
(latures will make a saving by the national go
vernment. Perhaps, however, it would have been
advifableto have reduced the pay, as it is not an
objeCl which the members will deem a balance
for any fubtraiflion of the approbation and con
fidence of the people.
Another circumstance is worthy of being men
tioned. The difficulty of preserving a govern
ment over a great traCl of country is principally
in proportion to the inconvenience of aflembling
the members from the extreme parts to the feat of
government. Very low pay would render this
inconvenience speedily intolerable, and produce
a general desire for a division of the Union. The
distant members fubniit to a kind of banilhment,
and cannot regulate their private concerns. This
furnilhes 110 reason for profufion and extravagance
—but it is hereby a caution against extreme par
simony. There is a just medium which is to be
prefered—it will extend the principle of Union
to the extremities, and bring the outside of the
circle nearer to the centre. The people will con
lider, therefore, whether the Union is not more
valuable than any other objedt, and whether they
would delire to have any small savings of money,
which, in any future period, lhould endanger
that blelling. Thele observations are submitted
to the candid public. If upon an impartial ex
amination, they lhould be found to have less weight
than the writer has given them, the voice of the
public will unquestionably reach the walls of the
Legislature. For in this country, the general
sentiment of the wife and worthy is law.A/tf. tEXNO,
If you and your brother-editors can find room for
the following remarks, amflng your political disquisi
tions, you may forward the work of improvements in
literature, and by Jhaking the throne of prejudice and
fa/fe philosophy, you may bring about a revolution in
favor of common sense.
THKRE is not a subject in literature so ge
nerally defpil'ed as Grammar ; yet there is not a
I'ubject of more consequence. The reason why
it is lo odious to every body but schoolmasters,
may perhaps be this. The authors who have trea
ted ol' this fubjedt, however eminent for erudi
tion, have been wholly ignorant of the origin
and conftrudtion of the Engliih language ; and
have, by falfe arbitrary rules, attempted to dis
card the idioms of the language, and introduce
iomething different frt>m common practice. Now
real Grammar is nothing but common practice ;
and when a man rises up and tells a nation, they
are all blockheads, and their language incorredt,
and vulgar, it is but jult that they in return Ihould
call him a pedant, and despise his rules. This
has been the fate of the three molt celebrated
philologersofthe Engliih nation, Johnl'on, Lowth,
and Harris. These writers, great indeed in Greek
and Latin, but knowing nothing of the true prin
ciples of English, have labored to prove their na
tive language full of errors and defects, and to
correct the one and supply the other by foreign
rules. The authority of their names has had an
unhappy effect upon the language—it has pcr
fuaded the learned to resign the true idioms of
the language and introduce many corruptions in
to books ; while the body of the nation, govern
ed by habit, retain their former practice. Hence
the difference between the language of books
and con verfation—a difference generally illfound
ed, and improper. To lheW how I'uperficially
some of these great men, as they are called, have
conlidered the fubjeit, letme request my readers
to attend to the following examples. Lowth tells
us, that the phrase I am mijlaket:, means I am mif
underjlood. Strange indeed that so great a man
Ihould be so mijlakeu. Let me ask what is it that
conltitutes the meaning of a word ? Every ration
al man will reply, the sense which a whole nation
itnnex to it in praaiee. If I fay, /am mijlaken, does
not every man, woman and child understand me
to mean, lam wrong, or in an error' my ft If? This
cannot be denied. This common under/landing then
conltitutes the truefignitication of the phrase, and
no man, not even a Right Reverend Father in
God, has a right to fay it is not the meaning. The
truth is, when applied to persons, miflaken is al
ways used in this sense, and in no other. It has
loft its participial meaning; in the fame manner
as fraught and drunken, tlio derived from freight
and drink have loft all idea of action and become
mere adjectives ; so that it is improper to use
them in the participial manner ; he has fraught a
vsjfsl, a man has drunken. Yet as adjectives de
noting a quality, the one denoting very full, the
other a Jlate of intoxication, they are both correct
andexprelfive ; a man fraught with mifchief, a drunk
en man.
Lowth fays likewise adje«£tives are improperly
used for adverbs ; as extreme cold. Why did the
good Bilhop overlook the phrases full sweet, very
cold ! Will any man deny the latter to be good
Engliih ? It will be laid very is an adverb. Not
at all: The adverb is verily. Very is always an
adjective, as, this is the very man : It is limply the
Fiench vrai, true ; formerly written in Engliih
veray, and in modern times, very. The truth is,
it is an idiom of the language, co-eval with its
formation, that one adjective may qualify another:
and the idipm of the language is not only one,
but the only ground of grammatical rules. Yet
this idiom has always been overlooked.
.Another example. Dr. Samuel Johnson writes
" he needs not be very carefulinltead of the
common phrase, he need not. How surprizing it
is that a whole nation Ihould overlook the real'on
why need, in the usual practice offpeaking, iscor
rect Engliih, without the personal termination !
Need when used alone and followed by an object,
is regular; he needs support. But when followed
by another verb, it is considered as a helper, 1 as
well as will, can or may ; and he needs not go, is as
bad Engliih as he wills not go, or cans not go. This
diftindtion has been observed in will, he will not go,
he wills it, and why it Ihould have been overlooked
in need and dare, when it is strictly observed in
practice from the prince to the wajher-womati, is
really surprizing.
Lowth, with his head full of Latin rules, re
commends averse from instead of averse to ; and
many American writers have adopted it. From
is a noun fignifying beginning and to, a noun lig
nifying end. " A man goes from New-York to
Bolton; "That is, "he goes beginaing NewYork,?W
Bollon. This conltruition is not more curious
than true ; as modern discoveries have clearly
proved, that rude nations talk firft by names on
ly ; and that all our particles, are old Gothic
nouns and verbs. lam averse from war, therefore
is simply this, lam averse beginning war. This
is not the meaning ; for averse denotes a quality
or state of the mind, beginning in my own brealt,
and directed to the object, war. Hence the old
phrase averse to is correct, and will ltand the test
of all the criticism in the nation.
I will not multiply examples. Horne Tooke
has made some valuable discoveries, which will be
the bads of the firlt English Grammar ever pub
lished. The philological writers in America,
have not the authority of a Right Rtverend, a
D. D. or a L. L. D. to give weight to their opin
ions ; but their attempts to correct the taste of
our youths, by ftrippiug the learningof thi3 coun
try of its pedantry, will finally prevail over pre
judice, and call back the lludentto the principles
of common sense.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES,
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 12, lj8<).
THE engrolled bill, providing for the expell
ees which may attend negociations, and treating
with the Indian tribes—and for appointing com
lnilliofiers to superintend the fame, was read,
when the House proceeded to fill up the blanks.—
It was moved that thefum of forty one thousand
dollars be inferred in the firft blank. This mo
tion was oppoled by Mr. Sumpter, Mr. Gerry,
and Mr. Livermore—lt was said, that a previ
ous estimate of the expences neceflary to be incur
ed, ought firft to be exhibited to the house—that
great frauds and abuses had been complained of
in tliefe negociations—t'lat the whole amount of
the revenue would fall short of the neceflary ex
pences of the current year, and therefore it was
incumbent 011 the House to grant monies with due
caution and deliberation—That it could not be
contended that so large a sum was requifitp, but
011 the supposition of a very large number of In
dians' attending, and presents being provided for
thein —It was urged that the treaties would be as
efficacious without collecting a whole nation to
gether—and the custom of giving presents
was reprobated by some of the members, as a mea
sure fraught with useless expence, much milchief,
and inconvenience.
Mr. Jackson, Mr. Hartley, Mr. Clymer,
and Mr. Baldwin supported the motion—The
latter gentleman produced a statement of the ex
pences which would arise from holding a treaty
with the Creek nation only, of which it was ex
ped;ed that 1 500 would attend—lt was observed
that the sum moved for was to defray the expen
ces of treating with the Indian tribes in general
—more particularly with the Wabafh nation, aiid
with the tribes to the southward of the Ohio—
That agreeably to the estimate, which was laid
on the table, the whole sum moved for would be
necefliiry ; but if the house chose to have the
treaties conducted upon different principles from
what has been customary, they can make such al
terations as they may fee proper.
The motion for 41000 being put, it parted in the
negative. Mr. Madison then moved that the
blank should be filled with 40000 —this was like
wise opposed—and the <yejand noes called for on
the queltion—which are as follow :
AFFIRM ATI VE.
Meflis Baldwin, Benfon, Brown,
Burke, Cadwallader, Clymer, Cole,
Fitzjimons, Gale, Griffin, Hartley,
. _ j Huntington, Jack/on, Laurance, Lee,
y es -• "i Madison, Matthews, P. Muhlenberg,
Page, Scott, Smith, (S. C.) Stone, Syl
vejter, Trumbull, Tucker, Fining,
Wadfworth, Wynkoop. twenty-eight.
NEGATIVE.
C Meflrs Ames, Boudinot, Carrol,
j Floyd, Gerry, Gilman, Grout, Heijler,
„ ] Hathorn, Leonard, Livermore, Moore,
OCS } Parker, Partridge, Van Ranfellaer,
| Schureman, Sedgwick, Seney, Sherman,
[Smith, (M.) Sturgis, Sumpter,Thacher.
Majority 5. So the motion obtained.
The blank in the clause for allowing a compen
sation to the commiflioners was rilled with Eight
Dollars pr. day, exclufiveof their actual expences
at the place of holding the treaties.
Upon motion Mr. P. Muhlenberg, and Mr.
W ads wo kt h were added to the committee ap
pointed to bring in a bill providing a fyltem of
regulations for the militia of the United States.
Adjourned.
[It should have been noticed before, that Meflrs
Fitzsimons, Laurance, and Griffin, were
appointed a committee to bring in a bill, to es
tablish the salaries of the officers in the executive
department.
N. B. In the committee of conference on the
part of the Senate, mentioned in our last, for
" Jackson" read Johnson.
T HURSDAY, AUG. 13.
The engrofled bill providing for the expences
of negociations and treating with the Indians,
& c. was read, and palled to be enacted.
Mr. Lee moved that the House should resolve
itfelf into a committee of the whole on the state
of the Union, to take into consideration the re
port of the committee on amendments to the
Constitution.
The immediate adoption of this motion was
advocated by Mr. Madison, Mr. Page, and Mr.
Hartley—and opposed Jjy Mr. Sedgwick v
Smith, (S. C.) Mr. Gerry.Mr. Laurance' and
Mr. Sherman—The latter gentlemen general]
obi'erved, That there was a great variety of bu/
ness before the lioufe, which it is of tht created
importance fliould precede the conliderati on V
all other—that it appears absurd to make altera
tion in a form of government, before it has a"
operative existence—that it is of the firft cons
quence to compleat the judiciary bill— that with
out this and l'everal other bills now pending j,
the house, we cannot carry one of the revenue
laws into execution—not a breach of the lav, , f
the United States can be puniflied— not a veflel
can be seized—The difcullion of the subject at this
moment will obftrud the wheels of government
and throw every thing into confufion—meantime
the United States are without law, and have no
authority topvuiiih a single crime. It was further
said, that few, if any of the State allemblies are
in fellion, and therefore it will unneceflarily con
sume the preient time, which is so precious—that
the people reposing full confidence in tlie justice
and wisdom of the House that this fubje<ft would
have seasonable and due attention paid to it are
as anxious and solicitous to fee the government
in operation, as they are about amendments.
The Speakers against the motion severally ex
prefled tliemfelvesin favor of taking up the fub
jecft as fo?n as the judicial, executive, and revenue
departments were so far completed that it could
with propriety be said that we had a government.
In support of the motion it was observed,—
That since the ftlbjed had firft been introduced, so
much time has elapsed, that if it is not novvtaken
up, the people will be led to suppose, that it is
the intention of Congress never to do anything
in the bufinels—that the people are extremelv
anxious upon the fubjed—and nothing short of a
convidion tliat'thofe rights, which they conccive
to be in danger as the Constitution now Hands,
will be placed in a state of greater security, will
quiet their apprehensions—that the number of
those in favor of amendments conliftcd ofa large
and respectable proportion of the citizens of the
States—that the peace and tranquility of the Uni
on depend upon a proper attention to their juit
expectations—that if those who are anxious for
amendments, had been added to those who open
ly opposed the Constitution, it would have pro
bably met a quite different fate—that except these
amendments are made, the government will want
the confidence of the people, and that energy
which is necessary to its existence—that the fame
reasons for a postponement have repeatetflybeen
assigned, and there is 110 profped that a more con
venient opportunity will offer. The queftionoe
ing put 011 the motion of Mr. Lee, it pafledinthe
affirmative. The House accordingly formed in
to a committee of the whole.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
The report of the committee was then read—
the firft article of which is in these words, viz.
11l the introductory paragraph of the Conftira
lion, before the words "We the people," add,
" Government being intended for the benefit of
the People,and the rightful eftablifhnieut thereof
being derived from their authority alone."
Mr. Sherman : I am opposed to this mode of
making amendments to the Conftitution —and am
for ftrikingout from the report of the committee
the firft article entirely. I conceive that we can
not incorporate these amendments in the body
of the Constitution. It would be mixing brass,
iron, and clay—it would be as absurd as to incor
porate an a<ft in addition to an ad:, in the body ot
the ad propoled to be amended or explained
thereby—which I believe was never heard of be
fore.—l conceive that we have 110 right to 00
this, as the Constitution is an ad of the people,
and ought to remain entire—whereas the amend
ments will be the ad: of the several legislatures.
Mr. Sherman then read a proposition which he
moved should befubftituted in place oft he article
in the report.
This beingfeconded, brought on an intercity
debate—Whether the amendments fliould be in
corporated in the body of the Conllitution, or
made a diftind supplementary ad.
Mr. Madison fupportecl the former, and
that he did not coincide with the gentleman fro'
Connedicut : I conceive, said he, that tn ere
a propriety in incorporating the amendments'
the Constitution itfelf, in the several P' :ices ,-
which they belong—the system will in that ca
be uniform and entire—nor isthisan uncoinnio
thing to be done—lt is true that ads are B en ,
ally amended by additional ads ; but this
lieve may be imputed rather to ' n^°'encc^j ier(
however is not always the cafe, for where t
is a taste for political and legislative P ro P, n , e 5 B
isotherwife—lf these amendments area
the Constitution by way of supplement, '
embarrass the people—lt will be difficult or
to determine to what parts of the 0 e . crea te
particularly refer—and at any rate «' s
unfavorable comparisons between the two p
of the infti-ument. If these amendments
dopted agreeably to the plan propo «' >
will Hand upon as good a foundation as 11 ,
parts of the Constitution—and will be fa"• equally as good authority.—lam not however
■yfolicitqus about the mode, so long as the
is fully attended to.
jj r Smith, (S. C.) agreed with Mr. Madison—
1 read that clause in the Constitution which
311 vides that alterations and amendments when
Fa eed to, ihallbecom e part of the Constitution—
Ifoni whence he inferred, that it was evidently
the design of the framers of the system, that they
ihould be incorporated—nor is the house at li
berty ro adopt any other mode. Mr. Smith cited
the instance of South Carolina, who instead of
making a<fts in addition to acts, which had been
found extremely perplexing, repealed their laws
o-enerally, in order to form a more fiinple and
unetubarrafling code.
Mr. Livermore lupported the motion of Mr.
Sherman He adverted to the cuitom and usage
of the Britiih legiilature, and of thefeveral State
Ad'einblies; in forming 1 aws and additional acfts.
\\'e have no right, he observed, to make any al
terations or interlopations in the instrument—it
will be attended with difficulties in some future
Joy.
Mr. Vining observed, that lie thought the
mode was not efiential—he therefore adverted
to the expediency of the motion—adding amend
ments, Hud he, will be attended with a variety of
inconveniencies —it will distort the system—it
will appear like a letter, which, carelessly wrote
in halte, requires a poftfeript much longer than
the original composition—This motion is found
ed upon the cuitom of amending a<fts by addition
al acts, to explain and amend preceding aifts, a
custom, which involves endless perplexities, and
has nothing in reason to recommend it. I hope
Sir, the motion will not obtain.
Mr. Clvmer advocated the motion : I wish Sir
that the Constitution may forever remain in its
original form, as a monument of thewifdom and
patriotism of those who framed it.
Mr. Stone was in favor of Mr. Sherman's mo
tion. If Sir, said he, the amendments are incor
porated in the instrument, it will allert that which
is not true —for this Constitution has been signed
by the delegates from the fcveral States as a true
inftrument —and therefore in this cafe we mull
go further, and fay, that a constitution made at
i'uch a time was defective, and George Wash
ington, and those other worthy characters who
fi<nied this instrument, cannot be said to have
signed the Constitution.—According to the obser
vation of the gentleman from South-Carolina,
refpe<fting repealing laws to make a complete
act, we must repeal the Constitution in order to
make a new one—but will any gentleman fay that
thislegiflature has authority to do this ? To in
corporate these amendments, the Constitution
must; however be repealed in parr, atleaft—The
moment we prepare ourselves to do this, there is
an end of the Constitution, and to the authority
under which we act. Mr. Stone then replied par
ticularly to the inference drawn by Mr. Smith
from the pailage which he had quoted from the
Coiillitutioii, and observed, that the words could
not imply any thing more than this, that such
amendments, when adopted, agreeably to the
mode pointed out, would be equally binding with
the other parts of the system to which they do not
specially refer.
Mr. Gerry enquired whether the mode could
makeany polfible difference in the validity of the
system, provided the function is the sam
conceived it could not—The constitution in my
opinion, said he, has provided that amendments
Ihould be incorporated—the words are express,
that they ihall becomc "part of this constitution."
The gentleman, (Mr. Stone) fays we fliall lose
the names of the worthy gentlemen who fubferib
ed the constitution—but 1 would alk, whether
the names would be of any consequence, except
the constitution had been ratified by the several
States ? or will the system be of no effect since it
is ratified, if the names were now erased ?—lfwe
adopt the mode proposed, wejhall in all probabi
lity go on to make fupplenients to supplements,
and thus involve the system in a maze of doubts
and perplexities.—lt appears to me, that in order
that the citizens of the United States may know
what the constitution is, it is neceflary that it be
comprized in one uniform, entire fyftem.—lf the
amendments are incorporated, the people will
have 0:1 c constitution ; but if they arc added by
way ot fapplement,they will have more than one:
And if in the original system there ihould any
claui'es be found, which are inconsistent with the
added amendments, the government will be com
pounded of oppoiite principles, both in force at
the fame time.
Upon the idea of gentlemen as to the facred
nefs of the original system, if amendment are
wade upon their plan, they will be considered in
a point of light inferior to the original ; in this
ew > amendments arc of no consequence, and
had better be omitted. —This would tend to de
feat the salutary purposes of amendments altoge
ther, by derogating from their dignity and autho-
Mr. Laurance was in favor of the motion
made lij, Mr, Sherman—he said, it appeared to
impuflible to incorporate the amendments in
' e '- ol iiti:inion without involving very great ab-
Surdities in the supposition—is they should be
engrafted in the body of the constitution, it will
make it fpcak a language different from what it
originally did—What will become of the laws
enacted under the instrument as it originally
stood ?—Will they not be vitiated thereby ? The
ratifications of the several States had refpeCi to
the original fyfteni.—lt is true that a majority of
them have proposed amendments,but this does not
imply a nccelfity of altering the original, Co as
to make it a different system from that which was
ratified.—The mode proposed by the motion is
agreeable to cultom—it is the least liable to ob
jection, and appears to me fafe and proper.
Mr. Benson observed, that this question was
agitated in the seleCt committee, and the result
is contained in the report now under confidera
tion—lt fliould be remembered, that the ratifica
tions of several oftlie States enjoin the alterations
and amendments in this way ; they propose that
some words should be struck out, and the fenteri
ces altered—l do not conceive that incorporating
the amendments can affeCt the validity of the o
riginal constitution—that will remain where it is,
in the archives of Congress unaltered with all
the names of the original fubferibers.—The a
mendments are provided for in that instrument,
and the compleating those amendments is com
pleating the original system—the records of the
legislature will inform how this was done ; —and
for my part, I can fee no difficulty in proceeding
agreeable to the report of the committee.
Mr. Page said that he supposed that the com
mittee of the whole is now aCting upon the con
stitution as upon a bill—and they have a right,
said he, to take up the subjeCt paragraph by pa
ragraph.
1 am oppofedto the amendment of the pream
ble of the constitution as proposed by the com
mittee, as well as to the motion oftlie gentleman
from Connecticut—l could wish therefore that
we may not consume time in fetling the nicer form
of conducting the business—but proceed, after
rejecting the firlt amendment, to conficler those
that are subsequent in the report.
Mr. Livermore replied to Mr. Page —-he said,
that with respect to the constitution, the commit
tee ltood upon quite different grounds from what
they did when discussing a bill, and he contended
that it is not in the power either of the legiilature
of the United States, or of all the legislatures
upou the continent to alter the constitution, unless
they were specially empowered by the people to
do it.
Mr. Jackson advocated the motion of Mr.
Sherman —he said, if we repeal this constitution
we shall perhaps the next year have to make ano
ther —and in that way the people will never be
able to know whether they have a permanent
constitution or not. —The constitution in my opi
nion ought to remain sacred and inviolate—l will
refer to the couftitution of England—Magna
Charta has remained as it was received from king
John to the present day, and the Bill of Rights
the fame; and although the rights of the people
in several respeCts have been more clcarly ascer
tained and defined, those charters remain entire :
A constitutional privilege has lately been esta
blished in the independency of the Judges, but
no alteration in the constitution itfelf was thought
proper. All the amendments are fupplementa; y—
the sacred depolitof English liberty remains un
touched—their great charter remains unaltered,
though defeats have been fapplied and additions
made. The constitution of the United States has
been made by thepeaple ; it is their own aCt, and
they have a right to it.—l hope we shall not do
any thing to violate or mutilate it.
I therefore heartily join in the motion for link
ing out the words and adopting the mode propo
sed by the gentleman from Connecticut.
Several of the gentlemen spoke repeatedly
upon the subjeCt, but time will not admit of our
enlarging further.—The quelhon 011 Mr. Sher
man's motion being taken, it pafled in the ne
gative.
A doubt was then raised, whether it wasnecef
fary that the article in the constitution which re
quires that two thirds of the legislature should re
commend amendments, fliould be attended to by
the committee —this oceafioned a debate, —an ap
peal was made to the chairman, who determined
that the business while before the committee,
fliould be transaCted in the usual manner by a
majority—an appeal was made from this judg
ment to the house, and 011 the question, being
put, whether the chairman's clecifion was in or
der, it pafled in the affirmative.
The committee then rose, reported progress, and
had leave tofit again to-morrow. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 14.
Hon. Ab iEIFo st f. r,member from New-Hamp
shire, appeared,was qualified, and took his feat in
the house this day.
In committee of the whole on the fubjecft of
amendments.
Mi'.Trumbull in the chair.
Some progress was made in the difcuflion of
the report of the seleCt committee.—-The question
011 the fir ft paragraph, after a short debate, was
put and carried in the affirmative.
lii the fecolid paragraph which refpetftS the
number of Reprefcutatives, it was moved that the
words " one hundred audfeventy-five" beitruck
out, and two hundred inserted. This motion ob
tained.
The third paragraph, wJpec'iing the eompen
fation to the members of the legillature was alk»
agreed to.
The committee then rofe,ancl reported progress
—and the house adjourned till to-morrow, 100'
clock. [,Sketches oj the Debates this day, are una
voidably om':tted.~\
NEW YORK, AUGUST ij.
Extratt of a letter from one of th: eastern States,
dated Aug. %.
" I perceive by the the proceedings of Con
gress, that the house are about to take up the
fubjed: of amendments to the constitution—This,
if true, will be considered by the friends to fe
deral measures, as a stretch of complaisance at
the expence of theintereft of the United States.
—I never yet met with a stickler for amendments
who entertained an idea that this business wouid
come upon the carpet, so long as Congrfefs had
any thing to do, that was elfential to the organi
zation of the government. Many persons are se
riously alarmed at this appearance, who have hi
therto repressed eVery repining thought, at the
llownefs with which public business has progrell
ed—fuppofing that nothing would clivers. COll
- from the Heady pursuit of those objects on
which the hopesof every friend to the Union are
founded, till every departmer.it of government
was established and compleated, and the fyfteni
put in full operation."
A correspondent observes, that the fears of
those who have been anxious on the score of a
mendments, may be entirely done away j for
though a majority of the present Congress are
undoubtedly friendsto the newgovcrnmen. ; and
though the fubjeJl of amendments has lain dor
mant, yea, quite ulleep through the Stages lor
many months ; and though there is confefledly,
very important and neceflary business yet pend
ing in the legislature, and though the time of
adjournment draweth near ; and though the
fubjed: of amendments is a difficult business and
will take time and cx.use tedious debates, yet to
" quiet the alarms," to " dissipate the appre
lienfions" " allay the fears" and " annihilate
tliejealoufies or the people"—the amendments
are to be immediately attended to.
Tliefubje<st of Amendments is now the general
topic of conversation :—The fufpenfionthat is oc
calioned in the organization of the government,
by taking up this mo ft import ant of ail fubjefls at
this moment of leifure —this pause in the general
expectations of tke people, mull be considered in a
pioper point of light—for tlio in two days a cer
tain aflembly have hardly got their hand upon
the knocke 01 the Door, as a certain hon. gen
tleman phraf-d it, yet the whole suit of apart
ments, nineteen in number, may be surveyed,
examined, altered, amended, curtailed,enlarged,
and appropriated, in days, weeks, or
months, at fartheft.
A public Eifpenfavy isagreat bleflrng to a popu
lous city:—Our rival fifte. Philadelphia, is bear
ing the palin from us in tliisand several other ref
peCts—for altho she may pofl?fs a peculiar knack of
turning the bright fide to the day, and fitting off
her various improvements in a very confpicuons
point of view, yetcomparifons apart, much credit
isduetoher pnblic spirit, for her various public
institutions : We are however happy to hear, that
it is in contemplation to eftablilh a Dispensary in
this city.
Progress of ARTS and MANUFACTURES.
" At Albany they have established a glass manu
factory, and at Boston is established another. The
Albany glass is as cheap as that from Europe.
" In New-York the cp.f?or-nut, orpalma ChriJli,
grows well—and one or more mills are
ed, for the making of castor-oil.
" The cotton.manufacftory is established at Phi
ladelphia and Beverly, and will be at Laitcafter
or York in Pennsylvania. Theßofton aflembly
have granted 5001. to the one at Bevei ly, as a gra
t ity for the advancement it has made. It is ca
ried 011 with Arkwriglit's machines.
" C'arding-machines are made as cheap and as
well at Phiadelphia, as in Europe.
COLLECTION LAW.
To (hew that crowns are of small cnnfcqucnce,
Republicans their value prize in ccnis ;
One hundred and eleven cents paid down,
Will buy the Gallic or the Engli/li crown.
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK.
IVedncfday Sloop Col umbia, Infh, Turks-Iflaod, 15 days.
Sloop Little Joftph, Merrydav, Richmond, 3 do.
Ship Bctfy, Wheaton, New-Castle,
Schooner Three-Friends, Marfchalk, Curacoa,
Friday Brig Nelly, Allen, Aux-Cayes, 10 days,
Sioop Sally, Cook, St. Thomas's, 13 days.
Brig Olive Branch, Lawrence, St. Euftatia, 21 do.
Sloop Rambler, Peterfon, Rhode-Island 3 days.
Sloop Lady-Hayley, Tillinghurft, do. 3 days.
Sloop Peggy, Otway, St, Croix, 12 days.COLLECTION LA*V— concluded, from ourlaji.
■Andbe itjurthcr enacted, That where any bond for the payment
of duties Hull not be 'faiisfitd on the day it became due, the col
lector shall profecutc for the recovery of the money due thereon,
by action or suit at law, in the proper court, having cognizance
therein; and in all cases of insolvency, or where any eflate in the
bands ot executors or administrators, shall be inefficient to pay
all the debts due from the deceased, the debt due to the United
States on any such bond shall be firft fatisfied.
And be it further enabled, That when it ihall appear that any
goods, waies or merchandize of which entry fh'ull have been
made,-in the office of a collector, are not invoiced, according to
the actual cost thereof at the place of exportation, and that the
difference was made with design to defraud the revenue, all such
goods, wares and merchandize, or the value thereof to be recov
ered of the person making entry, Ihall be forfeited ; and in any
such cafe, or where the collector is suspicious of fraud, and that
any such goods, wares or merchandize, are not invoiced at a sum,
equal to that tor which they have usually fold, in the place or
country fiord whence they were imported, it Ihall be the duty of
such collector to take the laid goods, waxes and merchandize into
his pofl*eflion, v and retain the lame at the risque and expence of
the owner or consignee thereof, until their value, at thetime and
place of importation, according to the principles for estimating
.the lame, established by this ast, shall be ascertained by two repu
table merchants, mutually chol'en by the said collector, and owner
<*r aflignee, and the duties arising upon such valuation shall be firft
paid, or secured to be paid, as required by this ast in other cases
of importation.
And be itjurthcr enaflcd, That it shall be lawful for the collector,
or other officer of the cultoms, after entry made of any goods,
wares or merchandize, on suspicion of frand, to open and exa
mine, in the prefcnce of two or more reputable merchants, any
package or packages thereof, and if upon such examination they
ihall be found to agree with the entries, the officer making inch
feizlire, shall cause the fame to be repacked, and delivered to the
ownei or claimant forthwith, and the expence of such examina
tion shall be paid by the collector, and allowed in the settlement
of his accounts ; but if any of the packages so examined be
found to differ in their content* from the entry, and it shall ap
pear that such difference hath been made with intention to de-
the revenue, then all the goods, waresor merchandize, con
tained in such package or packages, shall be forfeited : Provided
always, That if the owner or consignee of such goods as shall
not be accompanied with the original invoice, Ihall choose to wait
the receipt of the invoice, in such cafe, the collector shall take in
to his pofTefiion, all such goods, waies and merchandize, and
tore the fame, at the expenee and risque of the owner or con
signee, until the invoice shall arrive, or until they agree to have
the fame valued.
And be it further enabled, That every collector, naval-officer and
lurveyor, or other person specially appointed by either of them
for that purpose, shall have full powefand authority, to enter any
hip or vefTel, in which they shall have reason to fufpeft any
goods, wares or mercnandife fubjeftto a duty shall be concealed ;
and therein to fcarch for, seize, and secure any such goods, wares
or merchandize ; and if they Ihall have cause to fufpeft a con
cealment thereof, in any particular dwelling house, store, build
ing, or other place, they or either of them, shall, upon applica
tion on oath or affirmation to any jaftice of the peace, be entitled
to a warrant,, to enter such house, store, or other place (in the
day time only) and there to search for such goods, and if any
nail be found, to seize and secure the fame for trial ; and all
iuch goods, wares and merchandize, on which the duties shall not
iiave been paid or secured, shall be forfeited.
And be Ufurther znaßcd, That all good, wares and merchandize,
■which fhdll be leized by virtue of this ast, shall be put into and
remain in the custody of the collector, until such proceedings shall
be had, as by this ast are required, to ascertain whether the fame
ve been forfeited or not, and if it shall be adjudged that they
are not forfeited, they shall be forthwith restored to the owner or
owners, claimant or claimants thereof. And if any person or
perions shall conceal or buy any goods, wares or merchandize,
knowing them to be liable to a seizure by this ast, such person
or persons shall on conviction thereof, forfeit and pay a sum
double the value of the goods so concealed or purchased.
J* U j urth <r en a fled. That it shall bethe duty of the several
officers to be appointed or employed by virtue of this aft,to make
ieizureof'and secure any ship or veflel, goods, waresor merchan
ize, which shall be liable to seizure by virtue of this ast, as well
■without, as within their refpeftive difti ifts.
And. be it further ena3ed, That if any officer or other person
executing, or aiding and assisting in the seizure of goods, (hall be
iued or molested (or any thing done invirtue of the powers given
by this ast, or by virtue of a warrant granted bv any nidge or
Jufticc pursuant to law, iuch officer or other person may plead the
general lfTue, and give this ast in evidence ; and if in such suit the
plamtitt be non-suited, or judgment pass against him, the defend
ant Ihall recover double coil : and in all actions, suits or informa
tions to be brought, where any seizure shall be made pursuant to
tnis a£t, it the property be claimed by any person, in every such
cafe the onus proband! shall be upon such claimant ; and if any
person Ihall forcibly refill prevent, or impede any officer of the
cultoms, or their deputies.>)r any person assisting them in the ex
ecution of their duty, such persons so offending shall for every
offence be fined , n a sum not exceeding four hundred dollar?
And b c it further enaSed, That every collector, naval-officer and
iurveyor shall within three months after he enters upon the exe
cution ot his office, give bond with one or more fufficient sureties,
to be approved of by the comptroller of the treasury of the Uni
ted States, and payable to the said United States, conditioned
for the true and faithful dilcharge of the duties of his office ac
cording to law ; that is to fay, the collector of Philadelphia in
the lumoffixty thousand dollars, the collector of New-York, fifty
thoufana dollars,the collector of Boflon forty thousand dollars, the
collector ofßaltiwore-town and Charlefton,thirty thousand dollars,
he collector of Norfolk and Portsmouth, fifteen thousand dollars
the co lertotsof Portsmouth in New-Hampshire, of Salem and
verly, Wilmington, Annapoli,, George-town in Maryland, Berrmi
ta-Hundred and City-point, and Alexandria, ten thousand dollars
each the coiieftorsof Newbury-Port, G louceller,Marblehead, Ply
mouth, Nantucket, Portland and Falmouth, New-London, New.
Haven Fairfield, Perth-Amboy,Che(ler ; Oxford,York-tuwn,Dtim
tnes, George-town in Sou.h Coro'ana, Beaufort,and Savanna,each
hvethouland dollars and all the other collectors.in the sum of two
ouland dollars each. The naval officers for the ports of Boflon,
New-York, Philadelphia, Baltimore-town and Qharlcfton ten
thouland dollars each, and all other naval officers in the sum of
two thousand dollars each. The surveyors of the ports of Boflon,
jj' ,1 t ph ' a, > BakllllorM own, and Charleston five
_ l uf°u u rS j ac i' and a " othcr surveyors one thoufaad dollars
each, which bonds ffiall be fi'.edin the officeof the said comptrol
ler, and be by him severally put in suit for the benefit of the Uni
ted States, upon any breach of the condition thereof
1 'J'' ,ther ena(ltd > Th « there shall be allowed and paid
the collectors, naval-officers and surveyors, to be appointed
p fuant to this act. the fees and per centage following, that is to
fay; to each collector, for every entrance of any (hip or vefTel
of one hundred tons burthen or upwards, two dollars and an
half, for every tlearance of any ffiip or veflel, of one hundred
tons burt.ien and upwards, two dollars and an half ; for every en
tranceofany ship or veflel under the burthen of one hundred ton?,
one dollar and an half ; for every clearance of any ship or veflel
under one hundred tons burthen, one dollar and an half r for e-
Very permit to land goods, twenty cents; for every bond' taken
officially, forty cents; and for every permit to load goods for
,"xport»ticn, which are entitled to a drawback, thirty cents ; for
certificate, twenty cents ; for every bill of health
evci
twenty cents ; for every other official document, ex
cepted) required by the owner or mailer of every veflel, not be
fore enumerated, twenty cents ; and where a naval-ollicer is up
pointed to the fame port, the laid tees lhall be equally divided
between the collector and the said naval-officer, apportioning to
each his moiety of the necefTary expenccs of flationary and the
rent 6f an office to be provided by the collector, in the place of
his residence. mofl convenient for the trade of the dillrift, in
which the laid collector and naval-officer, lhall each have at lea ft
one fcparate room ; and the laid fees shall be received b) the col
lector, who shall fettle the accounts monthly, and pay to the naval
officer the balance which may be due to him on such monthly set
tlement. To each surveyor there lhall be allowed, for all the
lervices required by law, to be performed by such surveyor, on
board any ship or vessel of one hundred tons and upwards, and
having on board goods, wares and merchandize, fubjeft to duty,
three dollars, for the like services on board any ship or vessel of
less than one hundred tons burthen, having on board goods, wares
and merchandize fubjeft to duty, one and an half dollars, on all
veflels not having onboard goods, wares and merchandize fubjeft
to duty, twolhirdsof a dollar; all which fees shall be paid to the
collector, by the mafler or owner of the ship or vessel, in which
the services are performed, and the said collector shall pay week
ly to the surveyor the tees To received; to each infpeftor there
shall be allowed for every day he (hall be actually employed in
a dos thecufloms, a sum not exceeding one dollar and twenty
five cents, to be v paid by the collector out of the revenue, and
charged to the public ; to the mealurers, weighers and gaugers
relprftively Jor their services, shall be allowed, and paid by the
collector out of the revenue, for the measurement of every one
hundred bnlhels of fait or grain, eighteen cents; for the mea
surement of e very one hundred bushels of coal, twenty-five coots ;
for the weighing of every one hundred and twelve pounds, one
cent ; for the gauging of every cafltfix cents. There shall more
over be allowed to the collectors at each of the following ports,
to wit : Bo lion, Salem and Beverly, New-York, Philadelphia,
Baltimore, Norfolk and Poi tfmouth, and Charleflon, one half a
per centum on the amount of all monies, by them refpeftively
received and paid into the treasury of the United States ; and<
k ' hC colk&or of each of the other ports by this ast efta
blilhed, one per centurion the amount of all monies by them re
fpeftively received and paid into the treasury of the United States.
Every collector, naval-officer and surveyor, shall cause to be af
fixed, and constantly kept in some public and conspicuous place
of his office, a fair table of the rates of fees, and duties demand
able by law, and in cafe of failure therein, shall fofeit and pay
one hundred dollars, to be recovered with colls, in any court
having cognizance thereof, to the use of the informer ; and if anv
officer of the customs shall demand,or receive any greater or other
fee, compensation or reward, for executing any duty or service
required of him bylaw, he shall forfeit and pay two hundred
dollars tor each offence, recoverable in manner aforefaid, for the
use of theparty aggrieved.
Andbi.it further cnafttd, That the duties and fees to be coU
levied by virtue of this ast, shall be received in gold and lilver
coin only, at the following ratfs, that is to fay, the gold coins
of France, England, Spain, and Portugal,and all othergoid coin of
equal finenefs, at eighty-nine cents for every penny-weight. The
Mexican dollar at one hundred cents; the crown of France at one
dollar and eleven cents ; the crown of England at one dollar and
eleven cents ; and all fiiver coins of equal finenefs at one dollar
and eleven cents per ounce.
And be it Junker enafled, That all the draw backs allowed by
la w on the exportation ot goods, wares and merchandize import
ed, lhall be paid or allowed by the collector at whose office the
(aid goods, wares and merchandize were originally entered, and
not otherwise, retaining one per centum for the benefit of the
United States.
Provided alw ay s, and be it further enafled. That no goods,
wares or merchandize entitled to drawback, {ball be reladen be
fore an entry (hall be made with the collector of the port from
whence such goods are intended to be exported ; which entry
lhall contain a particular account of the calks and packages, the
marks, numbers and contents, the cost thereof, the Vessel or vef
lels 111 which they were imported, and the place or places impor
ed from ; and the person or persons intending to export such
good?, (hall give bond, with one or more fufficient sureties, that
the fame or any part thereof, (hall not be relanded in any port or
p-i e within the limits of the United States, as fettled by the late
treaty of peace ; and shall moreover make oath or affimation as
tothetiuthof the entry, that the goods, wares and merchandize,
are in quantity, quality and value, astherein exprelfcd, according
to the inward entry thereof, which entry was duly made at the
time of importation pursuant to the dircftions of this ast ; and
that the quality is the fame as at the time of importation; and
'he exporter of such goods (hall not be entitled to draw back the
duties, until at lead fix months after the exportation thereof, and
until he lhall produce tothe collector with whom such outward
entry is made, a ceitificate in writing of tworeputable merchants
at the loreignport or place in which the fame were landed,
t.iejwith the oath or affirmation of the mailer and mate of the
v el ln Which they were exported,certifyingthedeliverv thereof ■
but 111 cafc any vessel shall be cast away, or meet with such una
\oi able accidents as to prevent the landing such goods, a protest
in due form of law, made by the master and mate, or some ol
the leainen, or in cafe no such protest can be had, thenthe oath or
affirmation of the exporter (hall be received in lieu of the other
proo s herein directed, unless there lhall be good reason to fuf
pctt the truth of such oath or affirmation, in which cafe it lhall
and may be lawful for the collector to require such further proof
asthenature ot the cafe may demand. Providiu also, That
no goods, wares or merchandize imported, (hall be entitled to a
drawback ol the duties paid, or secured to be paid thereon, un
,l Jl amount to twenty dollars at the lead ; nor
unless they (hall be exported in the fame cask, package or pack
ages, and from the port or diftnft into which they were originally
imported, and moreover (hall be reladen under the infpeftion of
the collector, naval-officer, or furvevor of the port.
And De it further enafled, That the sums allowed to be paid by
law on the exportation of dried or pickled fi(h, and of fail
ed provisions, lhall be paid by the collector of the port or diftnft
rom whencethe fame shall be exported : Provided, That due
ZZ Z < * T, adc ' bonds S' ven > as ° f draw
backs, and that no such allbwance shall be made, unlefc it (hall
amount to three dollars at the leaf; upon any one entry
That if any goods, wares or merchan
dize, tntered lor exportation, with a view todraw back the duties
of (ball be"r n H d'° WanCeg ' Venb >' law t!,e exportation there
t, shall be landed in any port or place within the limits of the
(hall'be fubieft , r'"" 1 ' a 'i f " rh S oods ' wares and merchandize
f-nn h' Ur■ i " re forfeiture, together with the vessel
from which luch goods (hall be landed, and the velTels or boat,
used in landing the fame, and all persons concerned therein lhall
term -Pr.fonment' for a
term not exceeding fix months: and for difcoverv of frauds
nd seizure of goods wares and merchandize, relanded contrary
fame,,' J r rs elhbll(h,; d by this ast lhall have the
or offcnnj any bribe, recompence or reward, for anv ( • ,
uon, colluiion or fraud, shall forfeit and pav a f„™ ° ectP
two hundred, nor more thantwo thousand dollarsforeTch
And ,n all cases where an oath or affirmation is by th"s a A " Cc:
cd from a matter or other person, hav.nir commJ t >"
veflel, or from an owner or consignee of goods "ware? a , P or
chaudire, if the person so swearing or affirm,(hjlw mcr "
affirm fallely, such person shall, on indi&mrnt «,,) or
thereof, bepumffieJ by fine or imprifonmnn.'or bothCfr
cretion of the court before whom the conviction si C
as the fine shall not excced one thousand dollars, and the r '
impnfonment shall not exceed twelve months ™ of
And be it further enaffed, That all penalties accruing bvanv I, ,
of this ast, shall be sued tor and recovered with co'Unff
the name of the United Slates, in any court proper to try .[ f m
by the collector of the diftrift where the fame
otherwise unless m cafe of penalty relating to an office" of "h "?
Toms; and such colleflor shall be, and hereby amV. ■' Jecuf
directed to sue for and profecuic the fame to et*ft, r
bute and pay the sum recovered, after firft dedufling all ntrrff
costs and charges, according to law. Andall fhipsor v-llds ' i
wares and merchandize, which shall become forfeited hvf
of this ast, shall be 'e,zed, libelled and profecutcd a'
the proper court having cognizance thereof ; and the court (i ii
cause fourteen days oot.ee to be given of such fe.zure and libeH
causing the fubflancc of such libel, with the order of th- rn
thereon, setting forth the time and place appointed for trial to 7
lnferted in some public newfpaoer, nearell the place of IV
and also by poit.ng up the fame in the molt public manner fonk'
space of fourteen days, at or near the place of trial- and ,1
mation shall be made in such manner as the court shall direfl.
if no person shall appear to claim such fhtp or vessel E oods L
or merchandize, the'fame /hall be adjudged to be T
■ f any person shall appear before fcch judgment of forfeiture"™)
fha'lT an> K J P ,°; vcffc1 ' g° od5 ' w « ts or
hall give bond to defray the prosecution thereof, and to respond
? k" C \, not fu PP ort l » s claim, the court shall p IO .
ceed to hear and determine the cause according to law ; And.L
the prayer of any claimant to the court, that any (hip or veil"
goods wares or merchandize so fcized and profceuted, or anv
part thereof ffiould be delivcied to such claimant, it shall be law
tuiior the court to appoint three proper persons to appraifefudt
hip or vessel, goods, wares or merchandise, who shall befwom
>n open court for the faithful discharge of their duty and iuch
ppraifemcnt shall be made at the expence of the party on whose
piayer it is granted ; and on the return of such appraiiement if the
claimant shall, with one or more sureties, to be approved of bvthr
court, execute a bond in the usual form, to the United States for
the payment of a sum equal to the sum at which the ship orvelTc'
goods, wares, or merchandize so prayed to be delivered, bean!
prailed, the court shall by rule order such ship or vessel, gooa:
to bedcllvcred to the fa id claimant,and th;
aid bond shall be lodged with the proper officer of the court •
and it judgment shall pass in tavor of the claimant, the court shall
cause the fa id bond to be cancelled ; but if judgment shall pass an i nil
tne claimant,as to the whole or any part of such ship or veffel,roods
Vares or merchandize, and the claimant shall not within twenty
?r 8 L n Ca^lCr P a y mto thc court l * lc amount of theappraifed value
Ot such ship or vessel, goods, wares or merchandize so condemn
ed, with the ccfts, the bond shall be put in suit: And when any
prosecution shall be commenced on account of the seizure of any
»p or vessel, goods, wares or merchandize,, and judgment shall be
given for the claimant or claimants ; if it shall appear to the court
before whom such prosecution shall be tried, that there was a rea
lonable cause of seizure, the fame court shall cause a proper certi
cate or entry to be made thereof, and in such cafe the claimant
hall not be entitled to cofls, nor shall the person who madethe
lcizure, or the prosecutor be liable to action, judgment or suit, on
account of such seizure or prosecution. Provided, That the ship
or vessel, goods, wares or merchandize be after judgment forth
with returned to such claimants, his or their agents : And Provi
ded, 1 hat no action or prosecution shall be maintained in any
cafe under this ast, unless the fame shall have been commenced
within three years next after the penalty or forfeiture was in
curred.
■And be it further ev.atted, That all ships, vessels, goods, wares or
merchandize, wh i c h shall be condemned by virtue of this ast, shall
e fold by the proper officer of the court in which such condem
nation shall be had, to the highest bidder at public auftion,by
order of such court, and at such place as the court may appoint,
giving at least fifteen days notice (except in cafe of perishable goods)
fh tTlf ° r more P u blt c newspapers of the place where such sale
a be, or if no paper ispublifhed in such place, in one or more
in the nearest place thereto.
be it further enafled, That all penalties, fines and forfeitures,
recovered by virtue of this ast (and not otherwise appropriated)
r» Cr deductin g proper costs and charges, be difpofedof
as follows : One moiety shall be for the ufeof the United States,
and paid into the treasury thereof ; the other moiety shall be divid-
C J"/ 0 l^ree e S ua l parts, and paid to the collector, naval-officer
an surveyor of the diftrift wherein the fame fliall have been in
quired, and in such diftrifts where only two of the aforefaidof
cers shall have been established the said moiety shall be equally
c lvidcd between them ; and in such diftrifts where only oneof
t ie aforefaid officers shall have been established, the said moiety
allbe given to such officer : Provided nevertheless, That
in all cases where such penalties, fines, and forfeitures, shall bi
recovered in pui fuanee of information given to such collector, by
any peifon, other than the said naval-oHicer, and surveyor, the one
a f of such moiety shall be given to the informer, and theremain
er thereof shall be disposed of between the collector, naval
-3 flccr an d surveyor, in manner and form as above limited and
"Xpreffed,
And whereas, The States of Rhode-Island and Providence
antations, and North-Carolina, have not as yet ratified the pre-
J nt con stitution of the United States, by reason whereof this ast
oth not extend to thecolleftingof duties within either of the said
two States, and it is thereby become neceflary, that the followiug
provision with refpeft to goods, wares or merchandize imported
rom either of the said two States fnouldfor the present take place;
Be it therefore further enafled, That all good?, wares and mer
c andize not of their own growth or manufacture, which fliall be
from either of the said two States of Rhode-Island and
rovidence-Plantations,or North-Carolina, into any other nortor
p ace, within the limits of the Uniied States, as fettled by tne late
treaty of peace, shall be fubjeft to the like duties, leizures and for
eitures, as goods, wares or merchandize, imported from any State
or country without the said limits.
nd be it further enafled, That no goods, wares or merchandize
® ® r^, S n growth or manufacture, fubjeft to the payment of duties,
K r brought into the United States, in any other manner than
y sea, nor in any ship or vessel less than thirty tons burthen, ex
ctpt within the diftrift of Louisville, and except also in such vessels
«'S aie now actually on their voyages ; nor shall be landed, or un
aden, at any other place than is by this ast directed, under the
penalty of seizure and forfeiture, of all such vessels, goods, wares
or merchandize, brought in, landed or unladed in any other
manner. And all goods, wares and merchandize brought into t c
United States by land, contrary to this ast, shall be forfeited, to
gether with the carriages, horses, and oxen, that shall be employed
in conveying the fame.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Reprefevtatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and President oj the Senate.
Approved, July 31, 178q.
GEORGE WASHING 1 ON, President of the United States.
Publi/hedby JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden-;
Lane, near the OJwcgo-Marhct y New-York. —[3 dpl.p r .^ n -j