oftlhe t
XXXII.]
THE TABLE T- No. XXXII.
„ Ami" untanicxpt"" only anfmcragooi end, luhiTLufirainiixyth
in Juitable limits
. s a ccrta j n degree of pleasure and recreation are essential to
A the health and vigour of the human constitution, it is ot
oitance that thofepurpofes should not be defeated by the mode
Trauficatiw- The inftiuition of holidays eftablilhed by law
I auend.od with singular advantages. It excites an mcl,nation to
indulge in amusement to a certain extent, without fixing habits ot
rfi ation. Men may reft on Sunday without endangering then
loveof.cxercife. on other days. Such a periodical rcfpite fromla
bour does not terminate in habitual indolence. Were certain ho
, davs juthonfed mevery country, which it ihould be difreputabl.
not to oMWve, it would ftvmulate people to indulliy, that tnt;
° lght . procure some spare money for theoccafion, and the limita
tion of such days within proper bounds would prove a fecu iiy a
exce s s . It should be a prevailing rule, tfrat men who had noi
such ample fortunes as to live independent of their own exertion,
flmuld confine their ainufements to those cfUblilhed days. This
reHnftion would favemany aneilatefrom dellruftion, and prevent
vagabond) defending from wealthy and induftnous parents.
Nothing can excite more unpleasant impreflions than to observe
a fortune, that has been acquired by honest industry, wafted 111
idleness and extravagance. It a proper fyft. mof education were
adopted, there is reason to suppose, that the offspring of opulent
families woul.d b? more likely thap others to manage their proper
ty to advantage. The example of industry and econ9my in a pa.
itnt, certainly must have an influence on the condu£t of a child,
uiikfs he is so educated as to destroy the force of it. A rich lub-
n»ay become an intolerable coxcom,b by being unrestrained in
histxpences ; who, hai he been confined in his proper sphere c
bufciefsand frugality, might have made a ufeful, thriving citizen.
Perhaps it will be said, that in a republican government it is a
public benefit, that property (hould often change its master .—
TJiere is however a degree of refinement in extending
the arxuprent so far, as to encourage flot\i and vice in the children
ofprofperous men. A.thousand accidents will occur to deprive
rich men of their estates, without promoting so bad an expedient
h manners.,
i,f£TCH-0{ TH£ POLITICAL STATE Of AMERICA.
ALTHOUGH present appearances do not
fceni to fuppjort the a'iertion, my ears are yet
dinned with the cry we not long since heard, " let
have a government adequate to the purpoles
of the Union, that we may no longer be the
d,upes of other powers, but that we may be able
taprove ourselves of some importance infociety,
have our commerce fubjetft to our own laws and
regulations,, and not subservient to the caprice of
anyparticulsyftatc,or guided by foreign interest."
—That certain kinds of traffic may be advanta
geous to some individual adventurers, and yet
df general injury to the public, is fully mani
feftedby our present impolitic cpmnjerciaJ inter
course with Great Britain, which, upon an ag
gregate view, will be found to leave a heavy ba
lance against this, country, and unlcfs put upon a
Bore reciprocal footing, oughtto be totally anni
hilated : —Our circulating medium is daily drain
ed off in exchange for every frippery and fop
pery that the fertile invention of men has been
able to produce. —Reason 2nd common sense
loudly picolaini fpr a remedy againlt so great an
evil.
We proceed to examine some of the means by
whicli America has it in her power to this
remedy; and as I think a presumption upon the
favorable tlifpofition of Great Britain can be no
longer contended for, it will be proper to exa
mine those parts of her trade with us, the loss
of which lhe will npr readily consent to, as
grounded upon her eflential interest, which we
have reason to conclude from her permiting it
to exift.—ln a former paper, I mentioned out
pot and pearl aihes 3ud tlax-feed as necellary to
their manufaiftures, and which we know from the
test of experience, lhe cannot obtain so advan
tageaufly elsewhere—as the superior quality ol
these articles from this country find a market e
ven at a greater price, than those lrom the
northern parts of Europe, where they pro
duce but little flax-feed, and that of an inferior
quality, owing to the neccflity they are under for
the supply ot their duck and other manufacto
ries, of fufFeringthe flax, in order to obtain a due
degree of fibrous strength, to remain in the
ground beyond the proper time for extracting
good feed.—The large quantities of tobacco, rice,
&c. imported from this country into Great Britain,
and from thence exported to the various parts oi
Europe— employs so many of their Ihips —forms
so advantageous a vend for their manufactures
m its purchase, and gives so good a cominiflion
to their merchants that they would not very will
ingly relinquish a trade offuch importance, wijiile
neither the Brufils or the Indies can supply them
SATU RD A i, August I, 17^9.
with equal advantage thro' the interference of the
tt'ortugueie in the form er, and the distance of the
latter, which would cause the freight to exceed
the price of the article in this country —nor do
chey from their situation, require so great a share
of their manufactures.—lniefpecft to their whale
;i)hery, it is to exorbitant premiums, the weak
iefs of our former government, and the (kill of
iaur citizens employed in their service, they owe
any material progress in procuring an article
so eflential in their confumption—notwithftand
mg the utmost exertion of their pride during the
:ue war to conceal the fa»sl and hush their com
plaints—and though by illicit traffic not a few oi
their goods were introduced among us, the dis
tresses of their manufacturers, owing to the warn
of a regular communication between the two
countries, were severely felt, nor will they wan
only consent to a funilar interruption.—So large
a surplus of manufactures were on hand at the
commencement of the peace, that a fair face
and fine coat, formed fufficient credentials for a
jcredit of thousands of pounds—which proves,
rhat they had not during eight years found any
other market to fnpply the loss of our's. —But
granting that their trade with us was of no ma
terial importance to her European dominions,
the moll sanguine will not draw the fame con
clufionsas it refpeifls their Weft-Indies and other
colonial poflfeflions in this country ; and it is a faift
which will meet the allent of their own citizens
inhabiting these places, that were it not for that
iraffic, carried on legally in their own bottoms,
with us, some contraband also, and the reft
through neutral ports, they could not subsist,
notwithftauding Lord Sheffield's imaginary
inundations of lumber, fifli, grain and other fup
plics from the Britilh provinces of . Canada and
>Jova-Scotia—while the superior quality of Irish
beef and butter is no longer a counterbalance for
the difference of freight from that country or
this—ln proportion therefore as these different
channels of trade are rendered more difficult,
will the interest of the Weft-India planters be
urged in concert with oui exertions to effe<ft a
more liberal commerce between the two coun
tries. AM. ERICANUS.
ORIGINAL SPECIMENS of ELOQUENCE.
[Continued from our last.]
THE following Speech, remarkable for the concili
atory nature of the sentiments, and the noble simplicity
of the language, Wtis delivered by the Superintendant
of Indian affairs in the Southern Department, to the
Liiver Creeks, on the 2oth day of April, 1787. The
candid reader is called upon to determine, whether it
does not claim a preference over many of the Speeches
tranfmiud from antient times, admired by the critics,
and received as models for imitation in our American
Colleges. It is high time to learn to place a proper
value upon any thing which is realty meritorious in
itfelj; although it jhotild happen to have been produ
ced in our own age and country.
" Friends and Brothers !
" THE occasion that brings me here to fee you
is, I believe, partly of the fame nature, as that
for which you have met together. But before 1
enter upon the business, I cdnnot help exprefiing
the pleasure I feel atfeei.ig fomany of our parti
cular friends aflembled. The Lower Towns of
the Creek nation have always fliewn a modera
tion and a prudence, which 1 feel and admire. If
this disposition is continued it will eftablifli such
a friendfhip and commerce, as will be infinitely
better than quarreling and bloodshed.
" There are many present, who are already
informed that I am sent here by the great COUA
dIL, which in Peace and War diretfts the affairs
of all the thirteen United Nations oflVhiteMen ;
of whic i the Virginians, your neighbours, make
a very small part. I come From the center of their
government ; at a dijlance from here oj & whole
Moon's journey, on Jlrong Horses,
" Brothers!
" The Virginians of Georgia, who form one
of the thirteen fires of our great Council, com
plained at the Meeting last Autumn that their
Country was attacked and their People killed by
some bad men of theCreekNation— They demand
ed assistance, if due fatisfadtion was not given a
gainst the offenders—But the old and w.fe Meno*
the %reat Council, theCoNCRESs, before they
would fend out a strong army to assist in killing
heir brothers the Indians, with whom they had
ather be at peace, wished firft to enquire into
the matter, and fee if all things could not be a
micably fettled—For this purpose they have sent
nieout.
<< Now Brothers !
" From Peace may we not all reap advantages ?
\_tublijbed on Weduefddy and \alUrddy
There can be none from (pilling each other's
blood.—The Master of breath, lends us that
breath but for a little while ; why then should we
snatch it from one another soon I R than riE de
signs ? For this reason, 1 hope both parties will
be moderate.—Perhaps it hath been a little the
fault of both parties that any of the human blood
hatli been spilled oil the occasion.—l hope that
now each will yield a little to the other. When
our fiiends of the Creek Nation, who are now at
iugulta, come up, they will tell you how much I
inculcated this to the White People. I was hap
py to find them disposed to it ; except a few of
their mad young men, who are too apt to be dif
ipol'ed to war. But their nation will not be ri
gorous in their demands : they have presents in
(waiting for tlie l »Di ns, who I hope will go down
and receive the goods. lam convinced that this
}Nation will notinthe endlofeany thing, by coil' 1
firming the Grant of fucli lands as many of the
iefpectable men oftlie Nation have thought might'
foe spared; and have already grante-d :—which •
]gift it would be unmanly to retratf—if it could be
■done—but it cannot.
" Brothers !
" I have carefully avoided to mention any old
cause of quarrels, and I hope there will be none
for the future. You will find that the Head-
Men among the Virginians have lately made p o
vifion for severely punishing any of their bad
folks, who shall disturb their friends the Inaiatis.
" I will not trouble you further, but to mention
one thing, which concerns us all, and which I feel
from my heart : the red People and the /shite are
equally interested in it. We are Countrymen, we
live in the fame land; we breathe the fame air, we
Jhtuldbc brothers. The Kings and the People who
live over the great Water will wifli to subdue us
all. They will use cunning and force. Perhaps
at this vesy time there are men employed among
you to set you against us. It is not so long since,
but you mult remember how one-os these Powers
made visible efforts of this kind, even upon us, the
White J eople their Chii dren. But to tell you
what is done by others of rhem to People of your
colour, towards the midday fail, would fill you
with horror.
Ought we not, therefore, to grasp one another
with a strong arm of friendfhip ; the more easily
to repel these Foreigneis ? Go down then, and
receive the presents which are kept for you, aS
marks of friendfhip when you run the line ; as
you have agreed. You will be allu e I that every
care has been taken by the Virginians to prevent
your receiving any offence : as you, 1 flatter my
l'elf, will alfo'do by them. For my part, whenl
return from whence I came, I shall have tlieplea
fure to tell the great Council of Co ngre ss this :
then they, far from fending an army into the
Creek Nation, will exert themselves to give Trade
and the Comforts of life to you, and your Fa
milies. This will make the chain of ourfriend
ihip brighter—and, indeed, will be better for us
all.
" Before I make an end, I must inform you
that our friend Chewocleymicho and his compan
ions, the Iloflages, are in good health and spirits.
I have sent down to requelt they may be brought
up ; that it may not appear hard to keep our
friends too long from their relations. But I hope
the time pafles away agreeably with them : tor
when I left them, they had nothing to do but
to drink Rum, and be merry. If there is any just
cause of complaint, I now beg it may be made
known ; that I may use my belt endeavors to find
a remedy. All we have to request is, that you go
and receive your presents; and attend at running
the line, according to your agreement at the
Treaty."
(pj [We have now finifhed the manuscript containing " Origi
nal Specimens i>f tkquencc" —and consider the communication as
a rich add it ion to our miscellany.—Should the per Ton who favored
us with it,be inpoffeffion of other Specimens of Or icjnality,
w ihould esteem them a very fortunate acquisition to the Gazette
of the United States.]
AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES, of the CONGRESS
of the UNITED STATES, Tuesday, the 28th July, 1789.
Mr. Vinlng from the committee of eleven, to whom
it was refered to take the fub'jeCl of Amendments
to the Constitution of the United States, generally
into their consideration, and to report thereupon,
made a report, which was read, and is as followeth.
IN the introductory paragraph before the
words, "We the people," add, " Government
" being intended for ihe benefit of the people,
" and the rightful eftabliftiment thereof being de
" rived from their authority alone."
Art. 1, Sec. 2, Par. 3— Strike out all between
the words, " diretft" and " and until such," and
instead thereof insert, « After the firft enumera--t:on there lhall be one representative forevery
thirty thousand, until the number Ihall amount
to one hundred ; after which the proportion
lhall be To regulated byCongrefs that the num
ber of reprefentativcs lhall never be less than
one hundred, nor more than one hundred and
leventy-five, but each state lhall always have
at lealt one representative."
Art. I, Sec. 6—Between the words " United
States," and " lhall in all cafe," strike out
they,' and insert, " But no law varying the
compenfationlhall take effect until an election
ofreprelentatives ihall have intervened. The
members"
Art. i, Ses 9, Between par. 2 and 3 insert, "No
religion lhall be eitabliflied by law, nor lhall
the equal rights of conscience be infringed."
" The freed >m of lpeech, and of the press,
and of the right of the people peaceably to as
semble andconfult for their common good, ana
to apply to the government for redrefsof grie
vances, lhall not be infringed."
" A well regulated militia, composed of the
body of the people, being the belt security of
a free state, the right of the people to keep
and bear arms lhall not be infringed, but no
person religioully scrupulous lhall be compelled
to bear anns."
" No soldier lhall in time of peace be quartered
in anyhoule without the consent of the owner,
nor in time of war but in a manner to be pre
scribed by law."
" No person lhall be subject, except in caie of
impeachment, to more than one trial or one
punilhment for the fame offence, nor lhall be
compelled to be a witness against himfelf, 1101
be deprived of life, liberty or property, with
out due process of law, nor lhall private pro
perty be taken for public use without just com
pensation."
" Excellive bail lhall not be required, nor ex
celfive fines iinpofed, nor cruel and unulual
punilhments inflicted."
" The right of the people tobefecurein their
person, hqufes, papers end effects, lhall not be
violated by warrants issuing, without probable
cause supported by oath or affirmation, and
not particularly describing the places to be
searched, 8c the persons or things to be seized."
" The enumeration in this constitution of cer
tain rights lhall not be construed to deny or dis
parage others"Yetained by the people."
Art. 1, Sec. 10, between the iftandadpar. in
sert—" No State lhall infringe the equal rights
of conscience, nor the freedom of speech, or of
the press, nor of the right of trial by jury in
criminal cases."
" Art. 3, Sec. 2, add to the 2d par.—" But no
appeal to such court lhall be allowed, where the
value in controversy lhall not amount to one
thousand dollars ; nor lhall any fact triable by
a jury according to the course of the common
law, be otherwise re-examinable than accord
ing to the rules of common law."
Art. 2, Sec. 3 —Strike out the whole of the 3d
pav. and insert—" In all criminal prosecutions
the accused lhall enjoy the right to a speedy
and public trial, to be informed of the nature
and cause of the accusation, to be confronted
with the witneHes against him, to have ccin
pulfory process for obtaining witnefles in his
favor, and to have the aililtaiice of counsel for
. his defence."
" The trial of aTI crimes (except in cases of
impeachment, and in cases arising in the land
or naval forces, or in the militia, when in ac
tual service in time of war or public danger)
lhall be by an impartial jury of freeholders of
the vicinage, with the requisite of unanimity
for conviction, the right of challenge, and other
accnftomed requisites ; and 110 person lhall be
held to answer for a capital, or otherwile infa
mous crime, unlefson a presentment or indict
ment by a grand jury, but if a crime be com
mitted in a place in the polleflion of an enemy,
or in which an insurrection may prevail, the
indictment and trial may by law be autliorifed
in foine other place within the fame state ; and
if it be committed in a place not within aftate,
the indictment and trial may be at such place
or places as the law may have directed."
" In suits at common law, the right of trial by
jury lhall be preserved."
Immediately after Art. 6, the following to be
jnferted as Art. 7."
" The powers delegated by this Constitution to
the government of the United States, lhall be
exercifecl as therein appropriated, so that the
Legillative lhall never exercise the powers veil
ed in the Executive or the Judicial ; nor the
Executive the powers vested in the Legislative
or Judicial ; nor the Judicial the powers vest
ed in the Legillative or Executive."
" The powers not delegated by this Constitu
tion, nor prohibited by it to the States, are re
served to the States respectively."
Art. 7 to he made Art. S.
Extratf from the Journal,
JOHN BECKLEY, Clerk.
ADDRESS TO HUMANITY.
PARENT of virtue, if thine ear,
Attend not now tomorrow's cry,
If now the pity ftreammg tear,
Should haply on thy cheek, be dry,
Indulge my votive strain, O ! sweet HUMANITY I
Come ever welcome to my breafl,
A tender, but a cheerful guest. —
Not always in the gloomy cell,
Of lift dwell;
For sorrow long indulged and flow,
Is to humunity a foe ;
And grief that makes the heart its prey,
Wears sensibility away.
Then comes, sweet Nymph, instead of t.W
The gli omy fiend Jlupidify.
Oh may that fiend be banifh'd far,
Tho' paflions hold eternal war .'
Nor ever let mcceafe to know,
The puife that throbs at joy or woe.
Nor let my vacant cheek be dry,
When sorrow fills a brother's eye :
Nor may the tear that frequent flows,
From private or from social woes,
E'er make this pleating fenfedeparx,
Ye cares, O ! harden not my heart!
Howe'er exalted or deprefs'd,
Be ever mine the feeling breast.
From me remove the stagnant mind,
Of languid indolence, reclin'd ;
Alike the foolilh and the vain,
Arc stagnant to the sense humane.
It comes : it fills my labouring breast ;•
I feel my beating heart oppreft.
Oh ! hear that lonely widow'.* wail!
See her dim eye ! her afpeft pale !
To Heaven she turns in deep despair.
Her infants wonder at her pray'r,
And mingling tears they know not why*
Lilt up their little bands and cry ;
Oh God ! their moving sorrows fee f
Support them sweet HUMANITY !
Life, fill'd with grief's diltrelslul traiu,
Forever a(ks the tjar humane.
Behold in yon unconscious grove*
The vi&im of ill-fated love !
Heard you that agonizing throe f
Sure this is not romantic woe !
The golden day of joy is o'er,
And now they part to meet no morie.
Alfirft them hearts ! from anguiih free!
Support them sweet HUMANITT!
II Heav'n in every pnrpofe wife,
The envied lot of wealth denies,
If doom'd to drag life's load*
Thro' poverty's uneven road;
To thee HUMANITY, still true,
I'll ivifh the good I cannot do,
And give the wretch that wanders by,
A soothing word a tear a fgh.
Parent of virtue, if thine ear,
Attend not now to for row'scry ;
If now the pity streaming tear,
Should haply on thy cheek be dry,.
Indulge my votive strain, 0 SWEET HUMANITY.
FOREIGN MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES.
FRANKFORT, ArRU.24.
Letters from Peterfburgh advise, that great
preparations are going forward for opening the
campaign. It is aliened, that the army to be op
posed to the Swedes will be conipofed of 50,000
men, supported by Ijo galleys and armed Hoops.
PARIS, MAY 7.
On Tuefd&y last about twelve o'clock at iioon,
his Majesty opened the Aftembly of the States Ge
neral, by a speech from the throne, which was
received with loud acclamations. The £)ueen
was seated near the King, 011 his left hand ; Alon
fieur, and the Comted'Artois, at a small distance
on the right ; Ms.dame, and Madame Elizabeth
(liis Majesty's fillers) with Mefdames Vicftour and
Adelaide (his Majesty's aunts) on the left hand
behind the Oueen. The other Princes of the
blood, with some Dukes and Peers, were also on
the.right ; the Marshals of France, with others
of the lame rank, were 011 the left ; the Garde
des Sceanx were also on the left, and th* other
great officers of state were on the right of the
throne. Ihe Due d'Orleans, who is the only
Prince of the blood chosen deputy to the States
General, took his feat as such amongst the nobili
ty. Ine Ministers were seated close under the
platform on which the throne was placed. As
Coon as his Majesty had fini(hed his speech, the
Garde desSceaux and Monsieur Necker addrefled
his Majesty and the aflbinbly ; and at about four
o clock in the afternoon the King rose from his
feat, and adjourned the meeting to the following
clay. .
KAY 14.
THE Arret that excludes tlie i ubftitut es r
I" bp ha,, s) from being admitted to the AflembW
of the States General, positively declares thatn 0 „e
! ave the . P nv ilege of attending the meetii,.-
but in cases ol the incumbent's disease, and
cases, il no fubjetft lhould have been named t
lucceed the Representative, the Electors are to C
convened for the purpose of chufmg another
The States have hitherto been taken ui> i n e v
anuningtheir Deputies commillions. It was iirif
proposed to have this operation performed by the
hree orders 111 common ; but tlie nobility and
cle 'gy mfiftedon eacli Order examiiiinn- i£ *
members. This was done with a view to baffle
he pretensions of the Couimillions, who would
tain have all matters relative to the ftatesto be
decided, not as formerly by the plurality of or
ders, which would make but three votes, but bv
the majority of voices, which would produce as
many votes as the aflembly is <;oinpofed of mem
bers ; and in this cafe the third claf's would be al
ways sure of a great majority for, besides tha:
their number is equal to the two other orders
many partizans may be found, among tnefe ever
dilpofed to favor the views of the Tiers Etat.—
Many worthy redtors of parishes, most of whom
have been unanimously approved of by the peo
ple, are openly espousing the interest of the third
class, and express a nianifeft antipathy for all the
dignitaries, viz. Arclibifhops, Bishops, Abbots, and
their connections. The fame spirit may be said
to exist in the inferior nobility. This is the rea
son why the commons werefo earnest in soliciting
government to grant them a more equal represen
tation than they enjoyed in former aflemblies;
alledging, that as they actually constituted the
nation, and their number was, in proportion to
the other Orders, more than 24 to 1, the least they
could expe<fi was to form one half of tlie General
Aflembly. This claim seemed so just, that His Ma
jesty granted it, notwithflanding the contrary de
cision of the Notables, who had been previously
allembled to examine their claim, and who voted
by a great majority, in favor of the form ufedin
convening the last Aflembly of the States General
in 1614. 1 his was looked upon by everybody as
a real andfignal vitftory gained by the Commons,
nor was it in theleaft abated, butthatattheineet
ing of the States, every thing would be decidedby
the plurality of votes taken individually ; for it
would have been needless and illusory to increase
their number, if they were not to acquire an ad
ditional influence in the Aflembly ; and fuchmuft
certainly be the cafe if the fnfFrages are to be taken
collectively from the three Orders. Mr. Neckar
in his speech at the opening of the Aflembly,.
seemed inclined, to the great astonishment of the
public, to favour the latter mode of voting, and
although he palliated the matter, by faying, that
in some cases the former might be preferable,
such a doctrine was very much against his own
principles in the Kin *'s Council, here he openly
avowed a different opinion.
1 he above short paragraph will serve to explain
why the three clafles, or more propeily f'peaking,
the high ranks of the nobility and clergy are not
to agree, for it is they, who being extremely rich,
would be loth, in all probability, notwithllanding
their specious conxlefcenfions, to have an aJtpafs
that might expose them to pay ftridtly what they
ought.
The Clergy of this metropolis have clofedatlaft
their scrutiny. The Archbishop of Paris andfour
exemplary Recftors were unanimously chofena
mong the number.
Mr. Guy Target, gs well known for his philan
thropy, as he is celebrated for his eloquence and
enlightened mind, has been ele<fted a Delegate to
the States General, for the Eastern diftri<ft with
out the walls of Paris.
The Commons of Provence have lately had a
medal ftru<st in honor of M. de la To ur, their In
tendant : Though unadorned, yet its infeription
lnuft be highly pleasing to so good, so upright a
citizen—" 77v Commons of Province offer this fmt'J,
" but fmccre taken of their gratitude to Chari-ISDE
" ea Tour, who has been their friend thife fi rt J
" years." In the letter which accompanied the
medal were these words—" As in the days of
Henry the Great, his brave soldiers had but to
look at his conspicuous plume of white fea
thers in order to rally and pursue the path of
glory—folet this medal, diflributed among us»
by recalling to our minds the unanimous senti
ment which inspired the adjudging it to that
worthy citizen, become a warning to us in the
political career we are gomg to enter, that we
may have no other objedt in,view but the wel
fare of our country."
LONDON, MAY 18.
A Ruffian cutter has taken a Swedish brig n° m
Boftock, off Elfineur, and carried her to Cope"
hagen, which is the firft signal of the mai inc«» r
commencing again. ,
Russia has strengthened herfelf not on 1) ;
making new levies in her own dominions, u
also by debauching the troops of Poland :
thousand Coflacks have a«flually declared c
Russia, and marched to join field Maffhal 0
manzow., ne w Tournal, under tlie title of Les Etats Ct
' ,vas publiihed in France on the ad mft.
j \ro have been continued three times a
kfor the space of three months at least. The
fur,lotion was three half crowns, and the
mber of subscribers, who all paid beforehand,
was upwards of 2000. Le Jay, the Publiflier,
...ployed a l'currilous and unpleafing writer, for
which reason it was fupprefled by order of the
Kine's council on Friday lait, after the publicati
-o°f the second number. As a specimen of its
manner, take the following paragraph. " The
deputies were obliged to wait from eight o'clock
inthc morning till after eleven, in the narrow
dark lobby of the ephemerous hall, built for the
States General, which really offered a view of
a eroupe of merchants on 'change, rather than
that of the entrance of a grand ailemWy."
sKE i~'CH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
in the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STA FES.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 29,1789.
In committee of the whole—the difcuflion of
the bill for registering and clearing vellels and
t0 regulate the coasting trade was resumed—
further progrels was made—many alterations and
amendments introduced —but the business was
not compleated when the committee role.
Mr. Fitzsimons moved that leave might be
given to bring in a bill to suspend the operation
of the impoll and tonnage bills—but this motion
was not adopted. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, JULY 30.
The committee appointed to examine the en
rolled bill to regulate the collection of duties on
tonnage, and on goods, &c. reported that it was
found correct, and laid the fame upon the table.
The Speakerthen signed the bill.
Mr. Livermore introduced a resolution that
each member should be furniflied at the public
expence with two newspapers of this city, such
as he Ihould choose, and no more. This was
laid on the table.
In "committee of the whole—the difcuflion of
the bill before them yesterday, was tiniihed—the
committee then rose, and the chairman reported
the fame to the houl'e with the various amend
ments proposed.
A meflage was received from the Senate, by
their Secretary, Mr. Oris, who informed the
Hon. House, that they had concurred in the bill
for fettling accounts between the United States
andindividual States, without any amendments.
The House tl;en took up flic report of the com
mitteejult made—many of the amendments were
acceded to —some of them negatived and others
added by the House, so that the bill was not finilh
ed when they adjourned.
* FRIDAY, JULY 31.
Mr. ScOtt of the committee appointed for the
purpose, brought in a bill for eftablifbing a Land-
Office so • the western territory ; which was read
and laidoll the table.
Upon motion it was voted, that a Handing
committee be appointed to examine the enrolled
bills, and toprefent the fame to Th e President
for his approbation and signature, and Mr. White
and Mr. Patridge were accordingly appointed.
Mr. White of the committee appointedto ex
amine into the measures taken by Congress, and
the State of Virginia, refpectingthe lands reserv
ed for the use of the officers and foldies of said
State, kc.—brought in a report which was read
and laid on the table.
The House then proceeded in the consideration
of the amendments agreed upon in committee,
to the bill for registering and clearing vellels,
&c.which beingfinifhed, it was voted that the bill
ihould be en eroded for a third reading on Mon
day next.
A meflage by Mr. Secretary Lear was re
ceived—informing, that he was directed by The
President ok the United States to return
to the House, an a<fl to regulate the collection of
duties imposed upon fliips and vefl'els—and 011
goods,wares and merchandize imported into the
United States, which had received The Prelident's
approbation and signature: He then delivered
inthe act and withdrew.
A mefiTge was received from the Senate by their
Secretary, informing, that they had palled the
bill for eftablilhing the Trcafury department,
with amendments.—
Also, Thar the Senate had appointed Mr.
as a Handing committee, to join the
committee appointed by the Hon. House, to exa
mine the enrolled bills, &c.
Mt.Sedgwick of the committee for the pur
pose, brought in a bill to provide for the fafe
keeping of theaifls, records and great seal ol the
United States, for the publication, preservation
and authentication of the a(sls of Congress, &c.
which was read and laid on the table.
Mr. Huntington, oi the committee on the
memorial of Nathaniel Gorliam brought in a re
port which was also read and laid on the table.
Adjourned till monday morning.
TOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. PRINTER, *,
I AM one of those who mind my owti business, and let the
World jog on as it pleases, provided. I fuffer no molestation from
it in my favorite mode of life : I am a friend to good government,
because I realize that there are some perfonsin my neighbourhood,
who do not know the extremes that the workings of envy at my
imaginary wealth, would lead them to, were they not restrained
by the laws. Having had considerable experience amoiig man
kind, and being convinced that Government is a very happy in
vention—that the security of my life, and all I poflefs,depends up
on its (lability and energy, I have had my quiet a liitle interrupt
ed of late, (which by the by is thercafon of my troubling you with
this writing),for I have heard some strange doctrines about magi
strates, and Governors, and Senators, and Representatives—it is said
by some, who I believe and hope do not underlland a word they
fay, that they are all going to be mixed up together and there is no
difliti&ions to be observed—and they are all a going to fit and
smoke together—andtotalk over matters—and to make laws in the
very cheapest. and mod expeditious manner—and are ail to have
the fame pay—and wear the fume fort of coats, and to cut off all
their hair, but not to wear any wigs—and are to call one another
by their christian names—and so to relieve the burdens of the peo
ple, by doing the public business in about a week, or fortnight, or
so : These will be glorious times my neighbor Tom Trotter
fays ; but I assure you, Mr. Printer, these things make me feel
plaguy fober—for I vejy much doubt whether they will answer.
I am so faithlefs, that if an Angel was to come down from Heaven
and tell me that mankind were grown so wife, so moderate, so
just, so clever, and so every thing that's good, that they would all
be made happier by throwing every thing into a common flock,
my little all among the reft, I should look very (harp to fee whe
ther he had not a cloven foot, before I would believe him.
I tell some grumbling folksthat itis hardly so easy to make laws
in a chimney corner,as it is to fight battles there ; and that though
we in this country may be wiser than the reft of mankind in the
old countries, where the common people, as they are called, are
brought up in ignorance, that they, by long experience, have
found out some things of advantage to them, and among the reft
that they cannot live very happily without government —in which
some must rule, and others obey : I also inform them that some of
the greatest tyrants that ever lived used to coax and cajole the peo
ple in the firft place my paper is full, or I would write more.
Your's, Simon Doubtful.
AN ACROSTIC. by a lady.
W HERE is the man, whose blooming laurels shine,
A nd form a wreath his temples to entwine?
Steady, yet a£live, thro' a gallant war,
He rode victorious in the martial car :
I n couneil cool, determined, modest, wife ;
No guardlefs moment took him by surprise ;
Great were his dangers—thorny was his way,
To reach the goal, where Peace and Glory lay —
Oppression fled, blest Freedom now abides,
N or e'er (hall roam while WASHINGTONprefides !
BOSTON, JULY 2?.
While the foil of America is propitious to the
produCtior. of genius, Europe appears no less pro
pitious to its growth and maturity. Poets, Paint
ers and Mechanic? seek in the old world those re
wards which cannot be bellowed 011 them in the
new. Our Weft, Copley, Brown, Trumbull, be.
seem to have taken up their abode in those climes,
where the ingenious and benevolent Mrs. Wright
breathed her last. The inventor of the Quadrant,
Godfrey, though he loft the credit of the invention,
was there liandfomely rewarded—and within a
few weeks past, the indefatigable and ingenious
Pope,* the improver on the Planetarium or Or
rery—one of which he lately finiflied—fetoutfor
London, in order, by observation or encourage
ment, to extend the sphere of his inventive ge
nius—and while benefiting liimfelf, add honor to
the country that encourages, and to the land in
which he was born.
•This Gentleman is one of those " hdittlti" but fclf-tsught
American Geniuses, who, maugre the wonderful difcovcries of cer
tain European philosophers, bid fail to carry the palm of know
ledge from all competitors, however fclf-magvificd, of the Eastern
hemisphere, Mr. Pope was bred to the Clock and Watch-mak
ing bufinefs —and although he had never seen the Orrery of our ce
lebrated RiTTSNHOi'SE, or any other machine of a similar kind,
he invented, conftru&ed, and complcatcd his PLANETARIUM,
which a celebrated genius from France, lately in this country, pro
nounced fuperiorto any thing of the kind in E.urope. This noble
Machine now forms part of the Apparatus of Cambridge Univer
sity. 4
The officers, civil and judicial, throughout this
State, are taking the oath prescribed by a late
Ad: of Congress.—On Tuesday at the Court of
Common Pleas in this town, the fame was ad
ministered by the Hon. Judge Sullivan, to the
Judges thereof, Attornies, &c.
From New-York. —July 19.
Yesterday the Senate passed the Bill for the es
tablishment of the department of foreign affairs
with one very finall alteration refpetfting the chief
Clerk to the Secretary—the principle of the bill
is not varied.—The question on the President's
power of removal from office was very warmly
debated,and in voting the members divided exact
ly even to and 10—The President of the Senate
gave the calling vote in favour of the clause as it
came from the Hoaie, by which the power of the
President, to remove from oilice (as contained in
the Constitution) is recognized—for I consider the
aftas uothing more in this point thail a recognition
of a principle interwoven in the texture of the
system.—Heaven has been all gracious to America
in guiding this people to the choice of tlietr firit
andfecond magiftrlites— this determination of his
Excellency, is in perfect conformity tq, his senti
ments, nor do I think he would lacrifice them for
the Em pire of the world.
NEW-YORK, AUGUST i, 1789.
A government founded upon right principles, in order effec
tually to guard the rights of an enlightened people, Should be strong
in its conftru&ion, and energetic in its operation : Those amend
ments therefore which (hall have a'tendency to lefTen the force of
our National Government are to be deprecated.
The fubjeft of amendments to the Constitution is very delicate in
its nature, and dangerous in the experiment. So loug as it remains
as it is, the people will have a definite idea of the instrument—and
it will be considered as the great Charter ot their privileges—but if
it should fuffer such alterations as will place the whole, or its vari
ous parts, in a conflruflive point of light, the benefit ol a Conflitu
tion will be loft. The much admired Britilh Conflitution is to be
found only in that infinity of precedents which are fcattercd throngH
an innumerable multitude of musty folios.
If history and experience did not fully explain the mystery, it
would be extremely difficult to account for that opposition which
some chara£ters, in some of the States, make to neceflary official
Titles and Diftin£lions—for these persons, from education, habit*
and natural difpolition, difcoverthat they possess the modfovereign
opinion of their own individual importance. To such oppofers of
the legal honors which the people are always disposed to confer up
on their civil rulers, may be applied the words of Dean Swi Ft—
Their altitude ojfends tJie eyes
Of those who want the pow*r to rije.
Disinterested patriotism is a contradiction in terms—to this as
sertion the example of the Decli, and others, who facrificed their
lives for their country, may be opposed—but it is well known that
the force of very inferior motives has (limulated men to such a
facrifice—vanity and vain glory have produced many very bril
liant actions. Wife legislators calculate their regulations of so
ciety upon quite different principles—they know that intercjl :s the
great obje£t of mankind—hence they have always found it neces
sary to hold out inducements of various kinds, to flimulate to exer
tions, and to ensure obedience to the laws. Tnefe inducements
a*e requisite in proportion to the freedom which is emjoyed—in
arbitrary governments the feelings of the people are consulted, as
convenience may dictate—and their interest is always a secondary
Confederation —but in a free republic, though there is every local*
general and personal consideration to influence, yet the people have
always found it neceflary to confer titles of honor and diftin&ion
on their civil Rulers—for public offices, in proportion to
lity and freedom of the people, are never to be considered in a lu
crative point of view. And until human nature is d fferently con
flituted from what it now is, there must be a fubftitnte for pecuniary
rewards, to induce men to enter into the public service—mankind
have never yet devised any other than official diflinflions by hon
orary Titles.
The Boston Gazette of Monday last, printed by
B- Edes and Son, contains the following article :
" Our beloved Preside nt stands unmoved in the
" vortex of folly and dissipation, which the city
" of presents."
[A correspondent thinks it just to observe, that the reflefiion on
this city contain d in the above, conveys neither the fentimentsof
the inhabitants of Boston, or the people of MafTaciiufetts at large :
Of the great number of chara&ers from the £astern States, whom
a laudable curiosity has induced to vifil New-York, at th.s irjier
efling period, not a single complaint, refpeiting the " tolly and
" dilfipation" of the citizens, has ever been heard—and indeed it
is impofliblc that any person of the lead candor Ihould entertain
such an idea,for it would be contradiifrd by all their senses—every
appearance both in public and private, being in direst oppolition
to the infinuationof this para'graphift. j
Wednesday last being the day appointed by
hisExc'y the Commander in Chief, of this State,
fortheannual infpe<ftion and review ofGen.Mal
coin's Brigade ; they were accordingly reviewed
and infpetfted by Colonel Fifli, the Adjutant-Ge
neral, on the ground belonging to Colonel Rut
gers, where the whole were cxercifed and ma
noeuvred in his presence. The neat appearance
of the legion under the command of Col. Wykoff,
—their corredl execution of duty—together with
the orderly and refpe(ftable appearance and con
dud: of the battallion troops, induced him to
bestow many liandfome commendations, and to
promise to mention their behaviour in very fa
vorable terms in his report to the Commander in.
Chief.
A correspondent begs leave to recommend to
the farmers wives and childred, an attention to
the preservation of pried apples. They are a
pleafantandwholefome article of diet. Former
ly they ma-de a profitable articlc of remittance to
the Weft-Indies. It is thought they would fait
the East-India market, and thereby prevent some
hand dollars being sent out of our country. They
are belt, both in taste and appearance ; when
they are dried in a kiln, or a stove room heated
for the purpose.
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK.
Tl/urfday, Ship Lord Middleton, Hewgill, Shelburne, 7 days-
Brig Mary Ann, Tinker, Turks Island, 12 days-
Sloop Eliza, Blackburn, Cape-Francois, 13 days-The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
,
[Continued from our
NO controveiTy will be maintained with our
author, " that a free state is more excellent than
" simple monarchy, or Ample ariftocacy." But
the queition is, What is a free state It is plain
our author means a fiu«[le aflembly of teprefen
tatives of the people, perioddiclially elecfted, and
vested with the supreme power. This is denied
to be a free ltate. It is at firft a government of
grandees, and will loon degenerate into a govern
ment of a junto or oligarchy of a few of the moll
eminent or them, or into an absolute monarchy of
one of them. The government of these grandees,
'while they are numerous, as well as when they
become few, will be so oppreflive to the people,
that the people, from hatred or fear of the gentle
men, will set up one of them to rule the reft, and
make him absolute. Will it be asked how this can
be proved ? It is proved, as has been often already
said. by the conlHtution of human nature, by the
experience of the world, and the concdrreut tes
timony of all history. The puilions and desires
of the majority of the representatives in aflembly
being in their nature insatiable and unlimited
by any thing within their own brtafts, and hav
ing nothing to controul them without, will crave
more and more indulgence, and, as they have the
power, they will have the gratification ; and Ned
ham's government will have 110 security for con
tinuing free, but the presumption of i'elf-denial
, and felf-government in the members of the as
sembly, virtues and qualitiesthat never exiftedin
gieatbodi'es of men, by the acknowledgment of
all the greatest judges of human nature, as well
as by his own, when he fays, that " temptations
" of honour and profit are fails to big for any
" human bulk." It would be as reasonable to
fay, that all government is altogether upneceflary,
because it is the duty of all men to deny tliem
felves, and obey the laws of nature, and the laws
of God. However clear the duty, we know it
will not be performed ; and therefore it is our
duty to enter into allociations, and compel one
another to do some of it.
It is agreed that the people are the best keep
ers of their own liberties, and the only keepers
who can be always trusted ; and therefore the peo
ple's fair, full,and honest confent,to every law,by
their reprefetatives, must be made an eflential part
of the constitution : but it is denied that they are
the best keepers, or any keepers at all, of their
own liberties, when they hold colleiftively, or by
representation, the executive andjudicial power,
or the whole and uncontrouled legislative ; on the
contrary, the experience of all ages has proved,
that they instantly give away their liberties into
the hands of grandees, or kings, idols of their
own creation. The management of the execu
tive andjudicial powers together always currtrots
them. and tlirows[the whole power into the hands
of the most profligate and abandoned among them
selves. The honelt men are generally nearly
equally divided in sentiment, and therefore the
vicious and unprincipled, by joining one party,
carry the majority ; and the vicious and unprin
cipled always follow the most profligate leader,
him who bribes the highest, and sets all decency
and shame at defiance : it becomes more profit
able, and reputable too, except with a very few,
to be a party man than a public spirited one.
It is agreed that " the end of all government
" is the good and ease of the people, in a secure
" enjoyment of their rights, without opprellion
but it must be remembered, that the rich are peo
ple as well as the poor ; that they have rights as
well as others ; that they have as clear and as sa
cred a right to their large property, as others have
to theirs which is smaller ; thatoppi eflion to them
is as possible, and as wicked, as to others ; that
Healing, robbing, cheating, are the fame crimes
and fins, whether committed against them or
others. The rich, therefore, ought to have an
effectual barrier in the constitution against bein<*
robbed, plundered, and murdered, as well as the
poor; and this can never be without an indepen
dent l'enate. The poor should have a bulwark
against the fame dangers and oppreflions ; and
this can never be without a house of representati
ves of the people. But neither the rich nor the
poor can be defended by their refpe<ftive guardi
ans ill the constitution, without an executive
power, veiled with a negative, equal to either, to
hold the balance even between them, and decide
vVhen they cannot agree. If it is aflced, When
will this negative be uled ? it may be answered,
Perhaps never : the known existence ofit will pre
vent all occasion to cxercife it ; but if it has not
a being, the want of it will be felt every day. If
it has not been used in England for a long time
past, it by no means follows that there have not
been occasions when it might have been employed
with propriety. But one thing is very certain,
that there have been many occasions when the con
stitution would have been overturned since the
Revolution, if the negative had nnt been an in
dubitable prerogative of the crown.
It is agreed that the people are " most sensible
" of their own burthens ; and being put into a
" capacity aiid freedom of acting, are the molt
" likely to provide remedies for their own relief. "
For this reafonthey are an eflential branch of the
legislature, and have a negative on ail laws, an
absolute controul over every grant of money, and
an unlimited right to accuse their enemies before
an impartial tribunal. Thus far they are moll sen
sible of their burthens, and are molt likely to pro
vide remedies. But it is affirmed, that they are
not only incapable of managing the executive
power, but would be inflantly corrupted by it in
such numbers, as would deitroy the integrity of
all elections. It is denied that the legillative
power can be wholly entrusted in their hands with
a moment's fafety : the poor and the vicious
tvonld inllantly rob the rich and virtuous, spread
their plunder in debauchery, or confer it upon
some idol, who would become the despot ; or, to
Tpeak more intelligibly, if not more accurately,
foine of the rich, by debauching the vicious to
their corrupt intereft,would plunder the virtuous,
and become more rich, until they acquired all the
property, or a balance of property and of power,
in their own hands, and domineered as defpotsin
fin oligarchy.
(To be continued.)
I — !- I «'
An ESSAY on FREE TRADE and FINANCES.
[Continued from Nd. XXX ]
WHEN fuigle persons or parties counteract
the laws, and disturb that peace and order of go
vernment which is established by general consent,
and in which there is a general persuasion that
the security of every individual is concerned,
there will be no difficulty in making such exam
ples of punishment, as lhall be fufficient to curb
those turbulent and factious spirits, more or less
of which may be found in every community, and
which would become intolerable if not kept
under a rigorous restraint. In all cases of this
fort, the righteous severities of government will
be approved, fupporred, and even applauded by
the general voice. Yea, if we were to fuppole
that the general opinion was wrong in any par
ticular matter of importance, yet it is plain, that
vicious opinion could not be confronted by foree ;
it mult continue rill the ill effects of it lhall pro
duce a general conviction of its error, or till the
people can be convinced by reason and argument
ot the danger of such an opinion, before the
ill consequences are actually felt, in both which
cases the people will turn about fact enough of
their own accord, and the error will be correct
ed molt effectually, and with ease, and without
any danger of disturbing the public tranquility.
Opinions indeed of a dangerous, hurtful nature,
may spread among the people, and when they be
come general, are to be considered as great pub
lic calamities, but admit of no remedy but that
which they carry with them, and which will
prove effectual in the end, viz. their own evil
tendency, and therefore muff be let alone, like
inundations, which however calamitous, whate
ver waite and deltrucftion they make, cannot be
controuled, any attempt to flop their force, en
creafes their violence and mifchief; tjiey dolealt
hurt when they are uninoleited, and are fuffered
to drain tliemfelves off in their own natural chan
nels : In short, there is no forcing every body,
and therefore I reject, with abhorrence, every
idea of governing a country by a {landing army, or
any other engines of force. I consider every plan
of this kind as a departure from the true prin
ciples ot government, as deltructive in its con
sequences, as absurd, and ineffectual to its own
ends ; for such a government, whenever it has
been tried, initead of promoting the peace, secu
rity and happinels of the state, has generally been
found to have operated by way of tyranny and
oppression.
It appears from all this, that the true art of go
vernment lies in good and full information of the
fuels to which its ordinances are to be accommo
dated, and in wisdom in adopting such institutions,
laws and plans of operation, as shall bell suit the
Hate and true interelt of the people, and
openly, fairly, and candidly with them. You may as
well attempt, by finefles, tocheat people intolio-
Wnefs and heaven, as into their real political in
terests. 1 here are people scattered over the
whole nation, who underitand the great interests
of the community and the wisdom of public mea
mres, and are as firmly attached to them as those
wno fit in the feat of government, and who are
always dilfatisfied ; and their confidence in the
public councils is lefloned, when they observe
public measures are adopted, which they do not
•ee the use of, and the ends for which they are
calculated, and of course little myfterv and few
iecrets are neceilary in government." Let the
admimflratxon be such as will bear examining;,
and the more it is examined the better it will
appear.
In such a mode of administration as this, if
burthens that are really heavy are necessary for
the public fafety, they will be chearfully taken
up and patiently borne by the peoDle without
endangering the public tranquility.
(To be continued.)
THE NATIONAL MONITOR.- N o _ v y
— — .
? 4 ' Conversing with your sprightly boys,
Your eyes have [poke a mother's joys !
. Wilh what delight I've heard you quote,
J Their fixings in imberjeft vote !
J grant in body ana in mind,
Nature appears projvfety kind }
• 1 ruji not to that ; ad you your part,
Imprint jufi morals in their heart :
Impartially their talents Jean,
'lis Education forms the man." r
r *% U s^ rioN '' " niver f«lly ocixoMcdgt/tl),
ofubjeft of the great eft importance to society —Th* r
of individuals, and of States is inseparably m JZ
■with those tnftttuttons, which have special refr ■
(o this objeth—When the public mindis so itX
■with this idea, that Wife, andfalutary eJMIi/bJI
are formed to dtffuje the rays of knowledge and",
tue among all dalles of citizens, Hop, can feared,
foartoo high m its anticipations—the fucceediL
ration will be composed of kind parents, t>ooducM
hours and peaceable indufirious citizens.
1 Education creates atmofl as great a difference t e .
tween man and man, as there is between rational and
irrational beings.—This is an observation that ever,
f erf on makes, who contemplates charaners with a L
degree of attention—Riches give impprtance, but J
ver tnfptre refpeil—and may we not fupptfe the time
■will come, when their only intrin/ic advantage wilt it
thought to con/i/i in affording more competent means
for the acquifttion of science.
The author of my motto has beautifully Jkttchei the.
outlines of that pleasing, parental partiality, which
fancies it fees the buddings of genius, and the presa
ges of wisdom in the infantine prattle of its offspring
he however cautions againjl trufling to early appear
ances—it is true that nature mujt jbw the feed, lut
culture only, can bring it to perfeflion. '
" 'T't education forms the man"—and the pa
triot too. —It is necejfary in order to keep up afpirit
J<f freedom and love to their country, that early prin
ciples of public virtue and patriotism should he imbi
bed by the riftnggeneration.—Thefe conflitutedpart of
the education which the youth of some of the ancient
republics received; and though we would by no meant
quote them as a general example for the enlightened
citizens of the American nation, yet in this particular
they are certainly worthy of imitation. I cannot
conclude this number so well in any other manner,
as in the words of His Excellency the Vice-President
of the li liited States in the third volume of his Defence
of the Conflitutions of the United States—he sip,
1 he inftrucftioil of the people, in every kind
of knowledge that can be of use to them in the
practice of their moral duties, as men, citizens,
and Chriltians, and of ttieir political and civil
duties, as members of society and freemen,
ought to be the care of the public, and of all
who haveany fharc in the conduct of its affairs,
in a manner that never yet has been pra<ftifed
in any age or nation. The education here in
tended is not merely that of the children of the
rich and noble, but of every rank and class of
people, down to the lowest and the poorest.
It is not too much to fay, that schools for the
education of all should be placed at convenient
diftances,and maintained at the public expence.
The revenues of the state would be applied in
finitely better, more charitably, wifely, ufeful
ly, and therefore politically, in this way, than
even in maintaining the poor. This wouldbe
the bell way of preventing the existence of the
poor. If nations should ever be wife, inltead
of eretfting thousands of useless offices, oren
gaging in unmeaning wars, they will make a
fundamental maxim of this, that no human be
ing shall grow up in ignorance. In proportion
as this is done, tyranny will disappear, kings,
and nobles will be made to feel their equitable
equality with commoners, and commonerswill
fee their interest and duty torefpect the guar
dians of the laws ; for guardians they nwft
have as long as human nature endures. There
is no room to doubt that the schools, academics,
and univeriities, the stage, the press, the bar,
pulpit, and parliament, might all be improved
to better purpose than they have been in any
country for this great purpose. The emana
tions of error, folly, and vice, which proceed
from all these sources, might be leflened, and
those of v.'ifdom, virtue, and truth, might be in
creased ; more of decency and dignity niighj
be added to the human charadter in high and
low life ; manners would afliit the laws, and
the laws reform manners ; and iinpofture, to
perltiti'.n, knavery, and tyranny, he made
ashamed to show their heads before the wisdom
and integrity, decency and delicacy, of a ven
erable public opinion."
A SCRAP.
VICIOUS habits are so great a stain to human
nature, and so odious in themselves, that every
person actuated by right reason, would avoid them,
though he was lure they would always be coiicca
ed both from God and man, and had no future
punishment entailed upon them.
Pwbliftiedby JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maid""
Lane, near the Ufwcgo-Market, New-York.—