[Mo. XXXVIII.]
THE TAIiLE T. No. XXXVIII.
i ptoph hazard the loss of their liberties in listening
to men, who flatter and compliment the uninformed
multitude at the expence of trust-worthy individuals.'
POLITICAL watchmen, more than any other,
are apt to imagine they spy out danger,
where none exists. This good reason may be af
fiirned for it ; tliey have more to fear from one
another, than from the reft of mankind. They
ra ise an out-cry to quell dilturbances, which they
themselves inftigatecl ; and hide their own fail
inss, by making those of other people more con
spicuous. The molt careless observer of human
affairs must have leen, that men will trust their
political creeds in the keeping of persons, with
whom they would not trust a /hilling of property.
Nothing is more common than to hear a man con
demned as an hypocritical knave in his private
dealings, who will yet support foine degree of re
putation, in party-disputes, among the very per
sons, who thus reprobate him. If the man, who
handles my property, or gives me private advice,
is a villain, I can deteift him by faifts ; but he, who
directs my public opinions, deals in those un
meaning words which beguile and deceive, while
they preclude the polfibility of detection. Thus
it happens, that alinoftany man, who can clamor
loudly, and catch the magic cant of the day, will
not be without adherents. If the well disposed
part of the community would use a little reflec
tion, they would quiet themselves of many uneasy
apprehensions, and would soon be convinced that
a man, who is'deftitute of knowledge and recti
tude in private life, Ihould not gain any solid in
fluence, merely by his petulance and declamation
against public affairs.
Every man finds liimfelf more or less the dupe
of flattery, but few suspect how often the public
at large are seduced by compliments and intrigue.
I have seen a large crowd of people thrown into
acclamations of joy, at hearing the enchanting
found of majesty of the PEOPLE. Each man
takes a good share of the compliment to liimfelf,
and extols to the Ikies the worthless fellow who
declaims in such fafcinating language. Truth
and fair dealing hav.e no fu-ch captiva .mg effect.
The hierty of speaking and writing is likewise a
popular theme to defcaut upon. It is often a con
venient apology for nonferrfe and falfehood.—
This liberty is supposed to be abridged if it re
quires people to be confined within the rules of
decency and common sense. An ignorant bustler,
who is checked in his rant and -abuse, pretends
kis a fufficient plea, that in a free country, every
man may speak what he thinks. The byltandei s
are flattered with such an idea, and take part with
a boisterous fool who reminds them of so darling
aright.
No privilege is oftonermifapplicdthan that of
canvaiiing public affairs. It is of firth a critical
nature, that any general reftriiitions to prevent
the misapplication will, infome measure, destroy
the principle itfelf. The evil admits not of a
conftit'atiorsal remedy. There is but one poflible
cure for it. A race of men may be railed up and
educated with such principles of knowledge and
virtne, as will make them proof against the fe
ducftiorss of those who flatter the popular ignor
ance and caprice. To level undiftingurfhing cen
iure against public proceedings is a very weak,or
ivery wicked a<ft. It only encreafes thedifcon
tent and jealousy of the people, without remov
ing any errors or difficulties. Artful men like
wile find their account in charging the faults or
misfortunes of the times upon the m t fin ana gem en t
of conspicuous individuals. It is a kind of com
pliment to those who are not included in the
charge, and makes them infer that they have no
share in the production of the mifchiefs com
plained of. The magic power of flattery is no
where so fully demonflrated as in the declama
tions, wliifit pretended patriots and politicians
addrefsto the multitude. More States have been
overturned, and more calamitous effects introdu
ced. by pevfuading the people that they should
exalt themselves above their rulers, than have
ever happened through the bold, aspiring attacks
of ambition and tyranny.
for although the rights of the vhile ptcplc may be
"'ore than a balance for the power of tht whole v.a
frllrxey, yet this will not sanction the exaltation of
separate portion of the people over the autho
rity of any Angle magiltrate. This kind of adu
lation therefore, when addrefied to particular dif
tritfts,is not only falfe but unconstitutional.
MEASURES.
THE mritfures uf<-H iu the American ft?tfs were introduce
frpm England. A&s of tht alTunsblie* dire# itanaards of
C ?' n° e pt in thc aunties ; which aVe to
,° f nandards in England. Notwithttanding these a£ts, theif
irc m the mcafures used in lomc oi the Hates, and in
SATURDAY, August 23, 1739.
different parts of the fame state, which occasion confufion, dispute,
and litigation ; and therefore claim the public attention lor fixing
measures to one uniform standard, for broftnotirrg certainty and
fair dealings. " Thou /halt not have in thy'bag divers weights, a
u great and. a small. ThouJhalt not have in thy houft divtrs measures,
axjtreat and a small. But thou Jhalt have a perfect awl jufl weighty
" a perfetl and a jufl meafurefkalt'thou have." ' Deut. 15.
Those d eviations are short of what-are in 'England; whert
they have their bufheis of 8 and of 9 gallons, &c. and the peo
ple always have been in much confufion from their various mea
sures. Their ftatutcs refpe&ing measures originating in rude and
ignorant times, laid a foundation for the confufion. Atthistime
their standard of corn measure is according to the statute of the
: 3 - 3ch. 5 28. The laws of the refpe&ive states, so tar as
I ainformed, generally require their Ilandard bushel to be ac
cording to the English standard ; ?nd the statute ena£U, that " e
very bushel 187 inches wide and 8 inches deep, shall be esteem d
a legal Winchester bushel." Such a measure with ftraignt fid. s
nd equal diameter at top and bottom, contains 2150 42-100 (■•-
1 dutches. Noiwlthftanding this regulation, the corn bufhei in
mmon use in London and generally in the seaports of England,
ontain about 2178 inches, or above of a pint more than their
tandard. *
The counties of Maryland have a long while kept brass or bell
metal standards according to the statute of 13 W. 3, as directed
by a Jaw ena&cd.in Maryland 1715: And the county courts have
usually appointed officers for keeping the standards of weights
and measures. It was usual for cautious people to pay the of
ficer's for proving and stamping their measures; and the half bufh
•l in common use was agreeable to the llatuteof Maryland At
length wheat became almost the only ftaplc of the upper part of
Maryland. Mills for merchants work in manufacturing flour
were introduced, chiefly by those who had learnt thebufinefs and
had been ufcd«to a different fa larger] half bushel for measuring
wheat in another state. These Wringing in the large measure, con
tended for the use of it. Bickerings often happened ; but the usage
of the millers and merchants in the neighbouring fta e, on whose
purses the Maryland farmers were almost lftlely dependent for
the sale of their wheat, prevailed in introducing a larger measure,
the legal one : and at this day it is moiHy used, by con
sent of thfe buyers and fellers of grain. In one of the counties of
Maryland, millers and their connexions inlmuated themselves in
to notice, and were appointed jufticcs of the county court, who
bv law appoint officers of the standard, and even order new
standards ; which had great weight in quieting oppofitionto the
half bushel measure. This was in a part of Maryland where
wheat was almost the whole staple article of export, and which
was-almoft an unrivalled marked for wheat on Chetapeak, at that
lime.
The law of Pennsylvania eftablifhinga standard for corn mea
sure, was the year preceding the enacting of the statute of
the 13 W. 3, and therefore referred to prior statutes. The stand
ard obtained by the direction of their law, is still in Philadelphia,
unequally and aukwaidly made ot copper, and contains near
2188 solid inches. It is from this standard that the halt bufheis
in common use in Maryland are proved and stamped at Phila
delphia.
Some artifice amongst retailers has introduced measures of a
fhapc that shortens the quantity of grofsand articles, which
custom directs to be heaped in measuring. They dirett their
coopers to make them deep and narrow ; by which, although the
body of the vellel may hold the legal quantity of any thing struck,
yet the bate on that being small, cannot receive a due proportion
in the conic heap of oyfter®, roots, &c r . —ln England the whole
bushel is 8 «nchcs deep, tl»e diameter inches, which admits
of a conic heap one third as much as rhe cylindrical contents.
The Perifylvania half bushel is 9 inches deep ; which narrows the
vessel so as to reduce the conic heap greatly. There ought to be
fomc form and proportion in the parts of the half bushel, fixed
by law, as a rule for coopers, fcn the fkctch below, this is aim
ed «it, tho not in proportion >o the extraordinary diameter of
the Winchester bushel. In this sketch it is also meant to have the
contents nearly what they are in common use at present in the
wheat states ; which happens to accord with the customary bush
el of a great commercial country in Europe. The diameters and
depth give an eafv shape that admits of hoops drawing well—the
less tapering, the more forcibly the hoops draw, on the principle
of the screw and wedge.
In Engkmd, the Winchester statute bushel contains 2150 42-100
inches—Their bushel in mercantile common use 2178 inches.
Tn Maryland and Pennsylvania the commonlv used bushel is
2188 inches, the medium whereof, is 2172 inches.
In place of these is offered, a half bulhel '(a common and
more convenient measure than a bushel) which contains but
5 cubic inches less than the Pennsylvania Urge measure, near
14 inches more than the Winchester half bushel, and is ex
actly the fame with the EogKfh ineafuve used in common, (2178
inches to the bushel) and which being known in the European
markets where we shall deal, will therefore give tafe and conve
nience to those strangers when we deal with them,as well as to our
merchants.—Gallons may be laid aside refpe&ing bushel measure.
The bulhel is to contain so many intkes, and has us parts in pecks,
oufths, and eighths of pecks.
The proposed half bushel, as a common measure for the United
states is In. tenths.
rn diameter at top 13 5
Ditto at bottom 12 5
Depth 8 2
Coopers, by the use of ftoutiron truss-hoops, truly round, can
prcferve the diameters of their vefiels to a pretty near exa&nefs.—
Be it then erv.cred that all half bufheis shall be made,near as may
be, according to the dimensions above exprefTcd ; and that if any
areufed, as a meafurethat are more or It fs than one eighth of thofc
refpeft ve diameters or depth, the cooper shall forfeit 10s. if the
measure is not more than a year old ; and the owner 5!. be the
ape what it may, for every day in which it is used.—The coopei
a small fine(b) way of caution) not large, because of variation
from time and use : The owner a higher fine, because it behoves
him to have true measures. He is to examine and renew his inea
iure as occasion requires, testing it with the standard.
Philosophers, mechanics, &c. have their inch so fixed, so
long time recorded, and so often referred to, that the present siz
ed inch cau scarcely be departed from : nor can the present foot.
These are the two principal measures that make out all others.
The perch to be retained. It is used only in one line of business :
but an alterstion in its length would occasion much arithmetical
calculation :—lt may stand by itfelf. So of the yard ; let it re
main as it now is. Accurate standards are to be procured, and
sacredly kept in public depositories. I wished to have divided
measures to ascend and defcer i in tens as federal monies do : But
there are hindrances The change would be great.; aud the hu
man heart is to be consulted : Nor would there be so great ad
vantages in this applied to measures as to monies and weights.
What is to be the measure for liquors f It maybe confined only
to wine measure may be the usual pots of beer and cycler:
but let the gatlon measure be one only ; containing 231 inches.
Its parts mav still be quarts, pints, gills, &c.—ln the year 1688.
the standard gallon ia England, for wine, was found, on trial
\_PubliJhed on Wedtisffay and Saturday, '[
by the commiiSonerj-ot excif., to conraia but 1424 inch.s.—Vr\
Head of »gi.—lt was however resolved to continue the common
supposed contents of 231 inches.—ln order to know wnetlitr i,ifc
winemeafures imported into America from England, ar-~- oi-a size
agreeable to the real or imaginary ilandard in England, I vwelghai
the contents of a London ilampt pewter quart pot, being-tan
water, and found the pot contained one fourth ol 234 inches. Ttte
• xcefs is imputed to Tome of the weights uf< d on the occafiou, be
in;; of lead much worn : but the trial fuffked to allure me, that
the wine gallon in use, contains not less than 231 inches.
NEWYORK.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of RE PR F.S E NT TAT IVES of the UNITED
STATES.
MONDAY, AUGUST 17, 1789.
Further Jketch of the Debate on Amendments to the Con/litution.
In Committee of the whole House.
OIXTH AMENDMENT— a A well regulated militia, compo-
O fed of the body of the people, being the best security wt a
free Hate, the right of the people to keep and bear arms Hull not
be infringed, but no person religiouQy lcrupulous shall be com
pelled to bear arms."
Mr. Benson moved that the words 44 but no person religi
gioufly scrupulous ihall be compelled to bear arms," be ruck,
out. He wished that this humane provision ihould be left to the
benevolence of the government. It was improper to make it a
fundamental in the constitution.
The motion was negatived, and the amendment agreed to.
Mr. Bu RK.E moved to add a clause to the last paragraph to this
effect : That a Jlanding army of regular troops in time oj peace is
dangerous to public liberty, and should not be supported in time oj peu{t y
except by the consent of two thirds cf both houfi.
This amendment was negatived
7th Amendment. 44 No soldier shall in time of peace be quar
tered in any bouse without the consent of the owner, nor in time
of war, but in a manner to beprefcribed bylaw."
Mr. Sumpt e-k moved to (hike out the words 44 in time of
peace" and also the last words of the paragraph from the word
44 owner."
Mr. Sherman said he -thought this was going too far; occasion
might arise in which it would be extremely injurious to put it m
the power of any man to obftruft the public lervice : He adverted
to the Bntiih regulations in this cafe, ofquartering soldiers 111 pub
lic houses. This motion was negatived.
Mr. Gerry said, that he conceived the article might be so al
tered as to relieve the minds of the c.tizcns of the United States.
U is said, government will take care of the rights of the people ;
but these amendments are designed to prevent the arbitrary exer
cise of power. He then moved to insert between the words 44 buL"
and 44 in a manner," the words by a civil magijlrate. Negatived.
The amendment was agreed to.
Bth Amendment. "No person shall be fubjeft, except in
cafe of impeachment, to more than one triaMor the fame oftejice,
nor lhall be compelled to be a witness against himfelf, nor be de
prived of life, liberty or property, without due process of law,
nor ihall private property be Ukca for public use without juifc
compensation."
Mr. Benson observed, that it was certainly a fa£, thata person
might be tried more than once tor the fame offence : Inllances of
this kiud frequently occur-ed. He therelore moved to strike out
the words 44 one trial or" This was negatived.
Mr. Sherman was in favor of the motion.
Mr. Liver more was opposed to it : Hefaid: The clause ap
pears to me eircntial; if it is struck out, it will hold up the idea that
a person may be tried more than once lor the fame offence. Some
inllances of this kind have taken place ; but they have cauled great
uncafuiefs : It is contrary to the usages of law and pra&ice among
us ; and so it is to those of that country from which we have adopt
ed our laws. I hope the clause will not be struck out.
Mr. Partridge moved to insert after the words 44 fame of
fence," the words by any law oj the United States,** Negatived.
Mr. Laukance moved to insert after the words 44 nor shall"
these words in any criminal cafe. This amendment was agreed to.
9th Amendment. 44 Exceflive bail shall not be required, nor
exceiTivp fines imposed, nor cruel and uuuafual punishments in
filled."
Mr. Liver more said, the clause appears to express much hu
manity, as such, he liked it ; but as it appeared to have no mean
ing, he did not like it : As to bail, the term is indefinite, and
must be so from the nature of things ; and so with refpe& to fines ;
and as to punilhments, taking away life is sometimes necessary,
but because it may be thought cruel, will yon therefore never
anybody—the truth is, matters of this kind must be left to the
discretion of those who have the adminiftrationof the laws.
This amendment was adopted.
10th Amendment. 44 The rights of the people to be secure in
their persons, houses, papers and effe&s, (hall not be violated
without probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation, and
not particularly describing the places to be searched, and the per
sons or things to befeized."
Mi. Benson moved to insert after the words 44 and «ffe£h,"
these words 44 againjl unreasonable fcizures, and searches.
This was carried.
Mr. Gerry obje&ed to the words, 44 by warrants ifTuing"—
He said the provision was good, as far as it went ; but he thought
it was not fufficient : He moved that it be altered to and no war
rant fliall ijfue. This was negatived.
Thequeftion was then put on the amendment and carried.
1 ith Amendment. The enumeration in this constitution of
certain rights (hall not be construed to deny or disparage otheis
retained by the people."
This was agreed to without amendment.
12th Amendment. Art. I, Sec. 10, between the \ft and 2d
par. insert, 44 No state shall infringe the equal rights of con
science, nor freedom of fpecch, or of the press, nor of the right of
trial by jury in criminal cases."
Mr. Tucker moved to strike out these words altogether, as they
were an interference with the Constitutions of the several States :
The Constitution of the United States, he said, interfered too much
iflready.
Mr. Madison said he hoped the clause would be retained. I
think, said he, th-fe abuses are most likely to take place under the
State governments; and if they are to be restrained in any .thing,
this appears to me the most necessary : We fliall do what will be
grateful to the people by retaining the clause.
Mr. Tucker's motion was negatived.
The words on motion of Mr. Liver more were then trans
posed, and the amendment agreed to.
13th Amendment. Art. 3. Sec. 2, add to the 2d par. 14 But
no appeal to such court lhall be allowed, where the value in con
troversy ihall not amount to one thousand dollars ; nor shall any
tntf trinble by jury, according to the course of common law, beo
tiirrwife re-cxaininable than according to the. rules of common law.
Mr. Rem son moved to strike out the firft part of the paragraph,
relpc£ting the limitation of appeals.Mr. Madison observed, that except fo:nc adequate substitute
%vas proposed, he thought it would be neceflary to retain the
clause : There is, said he, perhaps rto danger of any court in the
United States, granting an appeal where the value in dilputedoes
not amount to iooo dollars ; (till the poflibility of such an event
has excited the greatest apprehensions in the minds of many citi
zens of the United States : The idea that opulent persons infght
carry a cause from one end of the continent to another hascauled
fenous fears in the minds oi the people : I think it best to retain
the clause.
The rtiotion was negatived.
Mr. SedgW i ck, to strengthen the clause, moved to strikeout
iooo dollars, and to insert 3000. —This motion was seconded and
supported by Mr. Livermore, but was negatived,and the amend
ment accepted.
14th Amendment. Art. 11. Sec. 3d, Strikeout the whole of
3d par. and insert: "In all crim nal profccutions the accused shall
enjoy the right to a speedy and public trial, to be informed of the
natureand cause of the ac ufation, to be confronted with thew;t
nelTes against him, tohave compulfary process for obtaining wii
nelTes in his favour, and to havetheafTiftanceof counlel for his de
fence."
Several amendments to thisarticle were proposed, some of them
were withdrawn and others negatived ; and one only obtained,
•which refp.&ed the place of trial, which was to be in the State
■where the supposed crime was committed.
This amendment was then adopted.
The committee then rose and the house adjourned.
TUESDAY, AUCUST 19.
Committee of the whole on the fubje&of amendments.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
The committee took up the fifteenth amendment, which is
44 The trial of all crimes (except in cases of impeachm nt, and
in cases arising in the land or naval forces, or in the militia, when
in a&ual service in time of war or public danger) ihall be by an
impartial jury ot freeholders of the vicinage, with the requiiiteof
unanimity for convi£tion, the right ofchallenge, and other accul
tomed requisites; and no person (hall be held to answer for a capi
tal, or otherwise infamous crime, unlcfs on a presentment or in
dictment by a grand jury; but if a crime be commuted in a place
in the pofTcflion of an entmv, or in which an infurrettion may pre
vail, the indi&ment and trial may by law be authorized in some
other place withirt the fame state; and if it be committed in a
place not within a state, the indictment and trial may be at such
place or places as the law may have dire&ed."
Mr. Burke moved to ftnkc out 14 vicinage," and to insert coun
ty or diflritt in which the ojfence has been committed." The gentleman
enforced this motion by a variety of observations; and among o
thers said that it was agreeable to the practice of the state he re
presented, and would give the constitution a more easy operation;
that it was a matter of serious alarm to the good citizens of many
of the States, the idea that they might be dragged from one part
of the State perhaps 2 or 300 miles to the other lor trial.
Mr. Gerry obje&ed to the woid 44 diftn£t" as too indefinite.
Mr. Sedgwick said, that he conceived that the proposed a
mendment is not so adequate tothe gentleman's obje& as the word
44 vicinage"—the latter part of the clause is lufiicient for the gen
tleman's purpose.
The motion was negatived.
Mr. Bur ke th n proposed to add a clause to prevent profccutions
upon informations : This was objetted to, as the object of the
clause was to provide that high crime , &c. (hould be by present
ment of a grand jury ; but that other things should take the
course heretofore praftifed. This'motion was loft.
And then the para graph was adopted.
16th amendment : 44 In fuiu at common law, the of trial
by jury (hall be preserved." This amendment was adopted.
17th amendment: Immediately after art. 6, the followingto be
inserted as art. 7. " The powers delegated by this Constitution,
to the government of the United States ihall be exercifcd as there
in appropriated, so that the Legtflauve (hall never exercise the
powers veiled in the Executiveor the Judicial ; nor the Executive
the powers vefttd in the Lenflativ or Judicial ; nor the Judicial
the powers veftcd in the L»,^illativeor Executive."
Mr. Sherman obj £ted to this : Hefiid it is unneccflary.
Mr. Madison observed, that its adoption willfatisfy the peo
ple : This separation of the powers is expe&ed: It will fcrve to
explain many cases that may arise under the Constitution, and can
do no harm.
Mr. Li ve ft more said, that he obje&ed to the clause altogether,
as in its operation it is fubverfiveof the Constitution.
Mr. Sedgwick, Mr. Benson, and Mr. Gerry were in favor
of this amendment, which was finally carried.
:Bth Amendment: " The powers not delegated by this Con
stitution, nor prohibited by it to the States, are reserved to the
States refpeftively."
Mr. Tucker propof d an introductory clause to this amend
ment, viz. all power btivv derivtd from the people.
Mr. M adi son obje&ed to this, as confining the government
within such limits as to admitof no implied Dowers, and I believe,
laid he, that 110 government everexiftcd which was not neceflarily
obliged to exercise powers by implication. This queition was
agitateo in the Convention of Virginia ; it was brought forward
by those who were opposed to the Constitution, and was finally
given tip by them.
Mr. Sherman observed, that all corporations are supposed to
pofTefs all the powers incidental to their corporate capacity : It
is not in human wisdom to provide for every poflible contingency.
This rpotion was negatived.
Mr. Gerry then proposed to add, after the " States,"
and people thereof.
Mr. Carrol objected to the addition, as it tended to create a
difhnttion between the people and their legislatures.
The motion was negatived,and the amendment agreed to.
19th amendment: " Art. 7, to be made art. 8."
The committed then rose and reported the amendments, which
were laid on the table.
The committee of eleiftions, pursuant to the
inftrutftion to them contained in the resolution of
the house of the 25th of May, relathe to the pe
tition of a number of the citizens of the State of
New-Jersey, complaining of the illegality of the
eleiftion of the members of this house, as cleifled
within that State, do report the following fa<fts as
arising from the proofs, to wit :
1. That the elections for members of this house
held within that State, in consequence of an act of
the legiflatnre thereof, entitled, " An act for
carrying into effeift on the part of the State of
New-Jersey the constitution of the United States,
aflented to, ratified and confirmed by this State,
011 the 18tli day of December 1787," parted the
2ifb of November, 1788, were closed in the seve
ral counties of Bergen, Morris, Monmouth, Hun
terdon, Somerset, Middlesex, Suilcx. Salem, Cape
May, Cumberland, Burlington and Cloucefter,
and the lifts of the fevey al persons voted for,and
the number of votes taken tor each, wei e received
by the Governor at the respective times, appear
ing from the said lilts andthe endorfemenls there-
whith lifts accompany this report.
2. That tlie election in the county of Efiex the
remaining county in the State, cloied oji the 17th
of April, and the lilt was received by the. Go
vernor on the 30th of May.
3. That in confequpnce of the summons from
the Governor, a copy whereof accompanies this
report, dated the 27th of February, to 4 of the
Members of the Council, a Privy Council confin
ing of the Governor and the 4 Members so sum
moned, did aflemble at Elizabeth-town, 011 the
3d of March, and being so all'embled, Mr. Har
ing another member of the Council received a
note from the Governor, a copy whereof accom
panies this report, in consequence whereof Mr.
Haring did thenalfo attend the Privy Council as
a member thereof.
4. That the Governor then appointed another
meeting of the Privy Council to be held on the
18th of March, at which day the Governor and
11 members of the Council did aflemble, and did
then determine from the lilt of 11 counties fpe
cified in the firlt fact above stated, the 4 members
now holding feats inthishoufe, the four persons
ele<fted members of this house within that State,
against wiiich determination of the Council three
of the members then present did protest, and the
protest, a copy whereof accompanies this report,
was, with the consent of the Council delivered
into the Council, in form 011 the subsequent day.
5. That there was no determination of the
Governor and Privy Council in the premises unti]
the 18th of March.
6. That the Governor did on the 19th of March
iflue a proclamation, a copy whereof accompanies
this report.
(jln our lafl wefiatedthat Mr. Tucker's propositions were laic
on the table—this is a mi/lake : He moved that the\Jliguld be re/cred ti
the committee oj the whole llouj'e. This motion was negativedby a greai
majority.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 20.
Mr. Carrol prefcnted a petition from Partrick Ben
nett, late quarter master in Col. Moy lan's light dragoons —
laid on the table.
Mr. Huntington presented a petiton from the inhabitantsol
the port of Stonington, in behalf of the fifhermcn of that place
praying that they may not be obliged to go so far as New-London
tor permits. Laid on the table.
The amendment of the f; nate to the bill for providing for the
expencesof negociations and treaties with the Indians, See. was
taken into consideration, and after some debate was concurred.
In commit ee of the whole on amendments.
Mr. Sherman bro't forward his motion (01 adding the amend
ments by way of supplement to the constitution ; which was
agreed to, 1 y more than three fourths of the members present.
The fir ft amendment being taken up, on the question to agree
to the fame, it was negatived.
On the second amendment refpe&ing reprefentatioi? : A pro
portion was fubm tted by Mr. Ames, to the following
effett : That after the firft enumeration, there shall be one
repiefentative to every 30,000 inhabitants, till the number of
members shall amount to one hundred ; after which the number
of members shall not increase till the number of inhabitants (hall
-mount to four millions, after which the ratio of representation
lhall be one for eveiy 40,000, till the number amounts to 200,
beyond which number it (hall not be increafcd till the number of
inhabitants amounts to ten millions, when the ratio of represent
ation shall be one for every fifty thousand.
The house spent the remainder of the day in di feu fling a varie
ty of amendments proposed to this motion ; and adjourned with
out coming to a decision.
THURSDAY AUGUST 20.
Mr. Goodhue introduced die following refolution,which was
read and laid on the table ; viz. That the president of the senate,
and fpcaker of the house of reprefeniatives, do adjourn the respec
tive hou fes of congrtfs on the day of September next to meet
on the fii ft inonday of December next.
A mefTage was received from the President of the United States,
by Mr. Secretary Lear, informing that the President approved
of the att.entitled, " An a6l for providing for the expenct.s whicfc
may attend negociations with the Indian tribes, and the appoint
ment ofcommiflioners for managing the fame," and had affixed
his iignature thereon.
In commitee of the whole.
The fubjeft of amendments resumed.
Mr. Ames's proposition was takeu up. Five or fix other gen
tlemen brought in propositions on the fame point; and the whole
by mutual consent, w ere laid on the table. The house then pro
ceeded to the third amendment, and agreed to the fame.
The fourth amendment, on motion of Mr. Ames, was altered,
so as to read, " Congress lhall make no law establishing religion,
or to prevent the free exerciffe thereof ; or to infringe the rights of
conscience." This was adopted.
The fifth amenpment was agreed to.
Mr. Scot obje&ed to the clause in the sixth amendment, " No
perlon religiously scrupulous shall be compelled to bear aims."
He said, it this becomes part of the constitution, we can neither
call upon such persons for services nor an equivalent ; it is attend
ed with ft ill further difficulties, for you can never depend upon
your militia. This will lead to the violation of another article in
the constitution, which fccurfstothe people the right of keeping
arms, as in this cafe you mud have recourse to a standing army. I
conceive it is a mattei of legislative right altogether. I know
there are many fe&s religiously scrupulous in this refpefl : lam
not tor abridging them of any indulgence by law ; my design is
to guard against those who are of no religion. It is said that re
ligion is 011 the decline ; if this is the cafe, it is an argument in
my favour; for when the time comes that there is no religion,
persons will more generally have recourse to thtfe pretexts to get
excused.
Mr. Boudinot said that the provision in the clause or fome
thinglike it appeared to be neceflary. What dependence can be
placed in men who are confcicntious in this refpcdl ? Or what
justice can there bejin compelling them to bear arm, when, if they
are honest men they would rather die than use them. He then
adverted to several instances of oppreflion in the cafe which oc
curred during the war. In forming a militia we ought to calcu
late for an eiie&ual defence, and not compel chara&ers of this
description to bear arms. I wifhthat in establishing this govern
ment we may De careful to let every pcrfon know that we will not
interfere with any person's particular religiousprofeflion. If wi
strike out this clause, we shall iegd such persons to conclude that
we mean to compel them to beai^Brms.
Mr. Vining and Mr. Jackson spake upon the question. The
words in perfin were added alter the word 44 arms,'' and the a
mendment was adopted.
The 7th, Bth. 9th, 10th. 11th, 12th, 13th and 14th amei dments
v. ithout arty material alterations were agreed to.
FRIDAY, AUGUST 21.
The order of the day, on amendments to the Conflit ul :__
15th Amendment under consideration
Mr. C £ r R-v move d to ftnke out these words " public '
to mfcrtforeign imiijioti. This was negatived. It K! .u'" s "'
ved to it rike out the last claufc " and if it be
to the end. This motion obtained, and the atnendment j s !,,u '
Uood adopted. nea
16th and 17th amendments were accepted, without alteram
18th Amendment : In this Mr. Gerry proposed to inferuh
word erprejily after the word » powers"—this being oljjeaedi
the Ayes and Noes were called for on the question, and are «ti°
low: AYES. .
Messrs Burke, Coles, Floyd, Gerry, Grout, Hathorne, lackl,
Livermore, Page, Parker, Partiidge, Van Raofellatr,Smith 'S Cl
Stone, Sumpter, Thatcher, Tucker. 17. 1 'I
NOES.
MefTrs Ames, Benfon, Boudinot, Brown, Cadwallader. Cart'
Clymer, Fitzfimons, Fuller. Gale, Gilman, Goodhu,, HartW
Heifter, Laurancc, Lee, Madison, Moore, P. Muhlenberg Schurc
man, Scot, Sedgwick, Seney, Sherman, Svlvefter, Smith, (\n
Simiirkfon,Sturges, Trumbull, Vining, Wadfworth, Wynkoop'
Majority 14. So the question was loft.
19th Amendment : Mr. Sherman moved that after the words
" prohibited by it to the" government oj the United and after
the words " referred to the," individuals Ihould be inferred -
This motion was acceded to, and the clause was then adopted.
The report of the committee being gone through, Mr Burke
introduced the following amendment, viz. Congress (hall not a!,
ter, modify, or interfere in the times, places, or manner of elett
mg Senators or Representatives of the United States, except when
any State (hall refufe, or neglc&, or be unable, from a£lual invi
lion or rebellion to make such elc&ion. This brought 011 a debate
and the ayes and noes being call-d, (land thus:
AYES.
MeflYs Burke, Coles, Floyd, Gerry, Griffin, Grout, Hathornr
lieifter, Jackson, Livermore, Matthews, Moore, Page, Parker'
Partridge, Van Ranftllaer, Seney, Sylvefttr, Smith, (J>. C.) Siodc,'
Sumpter, Thatcher, Tucker. 23.
NOES.
MefTrs Ames, Benfon, Boudinot, Brown, Cadwallader,Carroll,
Clymer, Fitzfimons, Foster, Gale, Gilman, t.oodhue, Hartley,
Laurance, Lee, Madison, P. Muhlenberg, Schureman, Scot,Sedg
wick, Sherman, Sinnickfon, Smith, (M.) Sturges, Trumbull, Vin
ing, Wadfworth, Wynkoop. 28.
Majority against the proportion 5.
The consideration of the amendment, which was poftpon:d
yeftcrday, was then resumed.
A variety of propositions were read, and on the queftionsbe
ing taken were negatived.
The following in substance, introduced by Mr. Smith,ofS.C.
was adopted, viz. After thefirft enumeration, there {hall be one
Reprtf ntative to every 30,000 inhabitants till the number fluil
amount to 100 —after which the proportion fwll be so regulated
by Congress, that there {hall be one to every 40,000, till the num
ber amounts to 200—after which the number shall not be encreaf
d at 1 I fs r?te. than one for every 50,000. Adjourned.
G E O 11G t TO WN ,(kutOW7nac) UGUST 12.
Last Monday being the yearly meeting of the
Patowmac company, the members of that truly
patriotic undertaking, allembledat Mr. John Su
per's, and atfer arranging the business for the
enfuingyear, they proceeded to the choice ofof
ficers, when the followiug gentlemen wereeleci
ed, viz.
THOMAS JOHNSON, Esq. in the room of his
Excellency the President of" Lhe United States of
America.
Thomas S. Lee, "1
John Fitzgerald, I Dire(flon<
UEORGE OILFIN, I
Notlev Young, J
It gives us infinite pleasure we have it in our
power to inform the public, that through the in
defatigable perseverance of the Patowmac com
pany, provision has been made to carry on the
work with great expedition, the ensuing year, so
that we may flatter ourselves with the pleafingi
dea of soon feeing the produce of our Weftcrn
country at 300 miles back, brought by water to
our own doors.
PHILADELPHIA, AUGUST I?.
In a London paper of the ioth of June, bro t
by the iliip Fair Penitent, arrived from Port -
Glasgow, there is a manifefto from England to
Denmark, intimating, " Should the Danfi "f'j'
the Ruffians, Great Britain will lookon it as a declp
ration of war, and will attack thetn immedut"}-
Britain has like wife ordered a fleet of twenty la»
of the line into theßaltic,as afleet of observation.
BOSTON, AUGUST IS- ,
In an Englifli paper of the 6tli June, very hand
some notice is taken of the scene which wasacte
at Trenton Bridge, by the Matrons, and "
robed choir" of that town, 011 The President s
palfing it when on his journey from Mount Ver
non to New-York. It is mentioned as a scene
which mufl have been the most int ere fling to tie
feelings—the 7nofl honorary and delightful that any
Hero or Monarch could have witnefled. e
thought is complimented as original' —the
is described as adding interest thereto —and t
whole panegyrized in the most brilliant manner.
[We cannot help retnarking, that a very viftble c
is difcernable in the Britijb accounts of the events ml
situation of this country. The language of contemp >
and which is worse of pity for our situation, is ca "&
edto the language of refpecS, and even hope' « "
der our new Constitution we may become a grot«'
a fiourijhing nat\on.~\ . 1
The refpeiftability of the; officers appomtc
the different grades oftlie Revenue Oepartmen ,
while itwillfecnre an honorable collection 0
revenue, muftgive great fatisfat'tion to the »
cantile interest. . ~
Mr. Joseph Spear, and Captain AM
Wheelwright, are appointed Weigi ers
Gangers for this diftriift. . 1 j n .
The following gentlemen are appoint
fpecflors for this port —Thomas Marking '
fq. Col. John Popkins, and Capt.
:)OLLI VER.MR. FENb'O,
r' litfd combofitms of this kind ; but arcumjlancesfometmcs give
borunct to trifles : This induces me to fend you. the following.
' acrostic.
A GES to ages, {hall his fame extend,
n own Tune's long vale, till Ms long race (hall end,
A mone the names which on his scroll he bears,
M en whom a world enlighten'd, fav'd, reveres—
S ee ADAMS with diflinguijh'd rank appears.
NEW YORK, AUGUST 22.
Tor President of the United States will this day, at it o'
l k meet the Senate in their chamber of Congress; to confer
;,h them upon the important fubjea of the approaching negocia
and treaties with the Southern Indians; and to make the
"""fli™ orevious arrangements of that buiinefs. This intention
was announced to the Senate by melTage on Thursday last.
Ixtraß ofaUtUrfromthe EaJlward, Augujl t6.
.. It isfaid that the vellels now on their patfage from Halifax
will pay 5° o1 - tor the dut y on mackarel alone —7s per bar-
That the mantle of national gratitude would (helter from the
ftnrrosof adverfitythe hoary head of the patriot was to be ex-
Vj . this consolation the friends of America have received
in thc appointment of the Hon. Geneval Li ncol n—thanks be to
tht Sovereign of our country."
perhaps in no inftanre has the patriotism and candor of a cer
tain honorable Ajcmbly appeared in a more conspicuous point
„fview than inconduaingtlie business of amendments to the con
fiitution Tht y have given the most indubitable proof of their
defirc to a<bpt the constitution to the wi es of their conftitmrnts,
as far as poffihle, by fubftantiaiing those amendments for which
there :s the greatest apparent folicitiide. Had a door been opened
for the admiflion of discordant propositions, it is probable that
the requilite unanimity would never have been obtained for the
adoption of any amendments whatever.
The President of the United States has been
nleafed to nominate
Arthur St. Clair, Esq. to be Governor of
the W'eftein Territory.
Winthrop Sargent, to be Secretary, and
S Mt'Ei Foi.den Parsons, John Cleves
Stmmes, and Wiliiam Barton, to be Judges.
Alfo—Hon. Benjamin Lincoln, Hon.CvßUs
Grif» in, and David Humphreys, Esq. asCom
miflionei s to be employed to negotiate a treaty
with the fouthem Indians.
Ebe ezf.r Tucker,to be Surveyor of Little
lag Harbour, in the State of New-Jersey, and
Wilham Gibb, to be Collector of the port of
Tolly Landing, in the State of Virginia.—To
which nominations the Senate did advise and
consent.
The appointment of for managing negocia
tionsand trt2t-.es with the fouthcrn Indians mav justly inspire the
fulUlconßdence that this important business will be to concluded
astoinfure peace and security in'future, to our harafod and dis
tressed frontiers.
A Convention of the PROTESTANT EPISCOPAL CHURCH.
in the States of New-York, New-Jersey, Pennsylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Vi rginia, and South-Carol i
na,oJ Philadelphia, 7th Augvfi, 1789.
The en«Toffed ADDR ESS to 7 HF. RESIDENT of the UNITED
STATES being read, and fLgned by the Convention,
Ordered, That the Right Rev. Dr. PRovoosT--the Rev. Mr.
Smith-—Mr. Andretvs—Mr. Joiin Cox—Mr. Brisbane
The Rev. Dr. Beach—the Rev. Dr. Moore—Mr. Rogers—
the Rev. Mr. Ogden—the Rev. Mr. Spif.rf.n—the Rev. Mr.
Waddel—and the Hon. Mr. Du an e, with such other gentlemen
as have been deputed to this Convention, who may he in
berequefted to present the fame to THE PRESIDENT ot the
UNITED STATES.
Agreeably to this order of Contention, their Committer rn Wednesday
lajl waited on the President zcith the following ADDRESS :
To the PRESIDENT of tUe UNITED STATES.
SIR,
V.'E the Bifnops, the Clergy, and I aity 01 the Protestant Epif
fopal Church in the States of New-York, New-Jersey, Penrfylvania,
Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, and South-Carolina, in General Con
vention Dffembled. beg leave with the highest veneration and the
most animated national considerations, at the earliest moment in
cur power, to express our cordial joy on your election to the
chief magistracy of the United States.
When we contemplate the short hut eventful history of our na
tion—when we recoiled the jeries of essential services performed
ty you in thecourfe of the revolution, the temperate, yet efficient
exertion of the mighty powers with which the nature of theconteft
made it necessary to invest you, and especially when we remember
voluntary and magnanimous rclinquifhment of those high au
tnoritiesat the moment of peace, we anticipate the happiness of our
country under your future adminiftrati-m.
But :t was not alone from a fuccefsful and virtuous use of those
extraordinary powers that you were callcd from your honorable
retirement, to the firft dignities of our government, an afied'onate
of your private charatler, the impartiality, the perse-
J'ering fortitude, and the energy -with which vour public duties
, ve been invariably performed, and the paternal folicitiide forthe
hppinefs of tbe American people, together with the wifdnm and
tonfuromatc knowlege of our affairs, mamfefted in your I*o mili
ary communication. have dire&ed to your name the univerftlwifh,
tod have produced, forthe firft time in the history of mankind,
,n example of vnanimous consent in the appointment of the gover
nor of a free and enlightened nation.
Tothefe considerations, inspiring us with the most pleating ex
piations, as private citizens, permit us to add, that as the rnpre
'entatives of a numerous and extended church, we most thankfully
'ejoice in the ele&ion of a civil ruler deservedly beloved, and emi
nently diftinguifhcd among the friends of genuine religion—who
as happily united a tender regard for other churches with an in-
Vl °Jablc attachment to his own.
With unfeigned fatisfa&ion we congratulate you on th<"
' ment °f the new constitution of government for the United
t3 tfs,the mild, yet efficient operations of which, we confidently
, ' remove every remaining apprchenfion of those, wit|i
ofe opinions it may not entirely coincide.'and will confirm the
°pes of its numerous friends. Nov do these expectations appear
?° an § u ' ne > when the moderation, patriotism, and wisdom of
d e e re{ j° nora^e mc mbeis of the federal legislature are duly conli-
j ß J rorn a thus eminently qualified, harmoniously
<■ r w executive authority in constitutional concert, we con-
y nope for the restoration of order and our ancit nt virtues ;
eextenfion of genuine religion, end the advancement
|j o^ r rt 'P abroad, and of our substantial * happiness at
We devoutly implofe the Supreme Ruler of the Univcrfe to
Preserve you long in health and prosperity, an animating example
°f all public andpnvate virtues—the fiiend and guardian of a tree,
c nlightened, and grateful people; and that you may finallyrcceivc
the reward which will be given to those, whose lives have been
fpcrit in promoting the happiness of mankind.
WILLIAM WHITE,
Bijhop ofthe Protcflant Episcopal Church, in the Commonwealth of Penn
sylvania, and President of the ionve-.ticn.
SAMUEL PROVOOST, D. D.
Bijhop of the Protejlant Epijcopal Church, in the State oj New-York,
though prevented, by inaijpo/ition, from attending the late General
Convention, he concursJincerelym this particular afl, andJuhJcribes
the present Address with the greatejl JatisJaClion.
NEWYORK.
BENJAMIN MOORE, D. D. AJJiJlant Minijler of Trinity
Church in the city of New-York.
ABRAHAM BEACH, D. D. AJjiJant Minijler of Trinity Church
in the city of New-York.
MOSES ROGERS.
NEW JERSEY.
WILLIAM FRAZIER, Reflor of St. Michael's Church, Trenton,
and St. Andrew's Church, Amwell.
UZAL OGDEN, Reflor of Trinity Church, in Newark.
HENRY WADDELL, Reflor oj the Churches of Shre'wfbury and
Middleton, New- Jersey.
GEORGE 11. SPIEREN, Reflor of St. Peter's Church, Peith-
Amboy, New- Jersey.
JOHN COX.
SAMUEL OGDEN.
R. STRETTELL JONES.
PENNSYLVANIA.
SAMUEL MAG AW, D. D. Reflor of St. Paul's, and Vicc Provojt
of the Univerjity of Pennflvanra.
ROBERT BLACK WELL, D. D. Senior Afjijlant Minijler of
Chrifl Church, and St. Peter's Philadelphia.
JOSEPH PILMORE, Reflor oj the United Churches of Trinity,
St. Thomas, ana All Saints.
JOSEPH G. T. BEND, AJiJlant Minijler of Chrijl Church, and
St. Peter's, Philadelphia.
FRANCIS HOPKINSON
GERARDUS CLARKSON.
TENCH COXE.
SAMUEL POWELL.
DELAWARE.
SAMUEL COUDON, Reflor of St. Ann's.
STEPHEN SYKES, A. M. Ret lor of the United Churches of St.
Peter, and St. Matthew, in Sujfex county.
JAMES SYKES.
MARYLAND.
WILLIAM SMITH. D. D. now Provojl of the College and
Academy of Philadelphia ; but appointed Clerical Deputx for
Maryland, as Reflor of Chcjier Parifk, in Kent county.
THOMAS JOHN CLAGGET, Reflor of St. Paul r Prince
George county.
COLIN FERGUSON, D. D. Reflor St. Paul't.
JOHN BISSETT, A. M. Reflor of Shrewjbury Parijli % Kent county
'WILLIAM FRISBY.
RICHARD B. CARMICHAEL.
VIRGINIA.
ROBERT ANDREWS.
SOUTH-CAROLINA.
ROBERT SMITH, Reflor of St. Philip's Church, Charlejlon.
W. W. BURROWS. 0
WILLIAM BRISBANE.
The PRESIDENT s ANSWER.
To the BISHOPS, CLERGY, and LAITY of the PROTESTANT
EPISCOPAL CHURCH in the States of New-York, New-
Jersey, Penxh lvania,Delaware, Maryland, Vi r
cin i a and S. Carol in a, in general Convention aflemblcd.
GENTLEMEN,
I SINCERELY thank you for your affeiionate congratulations, on
my eleflion to the chief Manflracy of the United States.
After having received from m\ fellow-citizens in general the mojl li
teral treatment —djter having Joum* them dij'pofed to contemplaie, in the
y nofl flattering point of view, the performance ofmy rnilitarx services: and
the manner of my retirement at the close of the war, Ifeel, that I have a
right to cbnjole myfitf, in m\prefent arduous undertakings, with a hope
that they willJlill be inclined to put the irojl favorable conjliuflions on the
motives which may influence me in my Jut ure public tranfaflions.
The fatisfdflion arijing Jrorn the indulgent opinion entertained by the
American people of my condu fl, will, I trujl, be some security for pre
venting me from doing any which might juflly incur the forfeiture
of that opinion. And'the conpderotion that human hapt>inef and moral
duty are inseparably connefled, will always continue to prompt me to pro
mote the prcgrefsof the former, by inculcating the praflice of the latt r.
On this occasion it will ill become me to conceal the joy I have Jelt in
perceiving the Jraternal ajfeflion which appears to encreafe every day
among the friends of genuine religion. It affords edifying profpefls in
deed. to fee chrijliais oj different denominations dwell together in more
charity, andcondufl themjelves in refpefl to each other with a more chris
tian like spirit, than ever they have done in any former age, or in any
other nation.
I receive with the greater fati faff ion your congratulations on the
eflablifhment of the new Conflitution of Government, because, I believe, its
mild, yet efficient operations, will tend to remove every remaining appre
hension of those with whose opinions it may not entirely coincide, as well
as to confirm the hopes of its numerous friends : And because the mode
ration, patriotism and wisdom of the present federal legiflature,feem to
promise the rcjloration of ord j r and our ancient virtues ; the extenfionof
genuine Religion, and the consequent advancement of our refpeflability
abroad, and of our Jubflantial happiness at home.
I rcejuejl, Mojl Rrverend and rejpeaed Gentlemen, that you willaccept
my cordial than/is for xour devoutJupplicztions to the Supreme Ruler of
the Universe in behalf of me. May you,,and the people zuhom you represent
be the happy fubjefls of the Divine benedictions both here and hereafter!
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
Augufl, 19, 1789.
How great foevcr a bull, the Pope may have made, in giving
some of the Monar hs of Europe the title of Mod Catholic Ma
jesty—His Faithful Maiefty : a correspondent thinks that the Peo
ple of America would do no more than jufticc to style the Chief
Ruler of our Empire, " His patriotic Majclty." It would be ori
ginal, and have a meaning.
Extra ft of a litter from a gentleman in King ft on (Ja
maica) to his friend in New-York.
" By a letter I received from Mr. H. of the 2d
of May, he informed me the new government
had commenced, and the great Washington
inaugurated PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES, &c. May God bless his REGENCY,
and make your dear county happy forever, is
my sincere wish. I should be happy could Ibe
one of the inhabitants of that landof Freedom."
An independent people should do every thing
in their power to procure, within themselves,
the raw materials neceflary for their own manu
factures, and encourage those manufactures in
preference to all others. Tlia business of hat
making has been carried 011 to great extent in
this country, and hatters complain of the scarci
ty of wool for the purpose of making coarse hats.
This is the season of the year for Shearing lambs.,
which not only produces an immediate profit to
the owner, but experience has evinced it benefi
cial to the next years fleece, by making it finer
and thicker set. It is hoped that farmers, as
friends to their country, will attend to this hint.
On TucfJay the nth infant. departed this life, in the 33 d \eur of his
age, Major John Lucas, and on Wedncfday, his remains were inter
ed in St. Paul's cnurch -yard, with military honors, attended by a nume
rous concourse oj refpectablejriends and citizens together with the honor
able Society of the Cincinnati, oj which he was a member.
The friends oj America will join with us in paying tne tribute of fur
row due to tbe brave and the gcod, when hey learn, he was among tie
joremojl who flep'dJort* in defence of the rights oj freemen at the com
mencement oj the late contefl: Natuiuily of a weak copjhtutio'.the fa
tigues he experienced in the discharge oj his duty as a faithful and
worthy soldier, broug-1 on a conjumptivs complaint, which at length put
a period to his valuable life: It pleajcd kind Providence however tojpare
him till he saw his country jree, independent and happy, which was the
completion of his wishes.
Familiar with dangers, death to him was not a king of terrors ; ful
ly sensible of his approaching dijjolution, he Jit his tioufe it: order, and
resigned his breath to the Gtd of nature, infull expectation of a glorious
and blessed immortality.
LONDON, MAY JO.
A rumour is in circulation in the higher circles,
that his majelty has resolved to adopt a measure
which willjuftly entitle him to the appellation of
father of his country.
Having found that the million surplus, said by
Mr. Pitt to exist, was too precarious a fund to af
ford the nation any considerable relief from the
weight of its public debt; his majelty, it is ru
moured, has resolved to make his people heirs
to eleven millions llerling, which he means to ef
tablilh as a fund to be applied solely to the dis
charge of the national debt.
To make this measure complete, by rendering
the fund iftalienablean adtof parliament is to be
palled for veiling this immense sum in trustees,
who are to have the sole management of it, fub
je<sl only to the inquisitorial power of parliament,
to fee that it is properly applied. But the aifl is
at the fame to provide, that, Ihould parliament at
tempt to divert a single guinea of this fund
from the purpose for which it is to beellabliihed,
the whole of it is to become ipfo facto the private
property of the trustees.
When he hoards only that lie may be able to
relieve his people, his economy becomes a mine
of wealth to his people.
It is said, that the firft idea of establishing such
a fund, was firft suggested to his majelty by a
passage which he read in the life of Pope Sixtrus
Vth, who deposited in the castle of St. Angelo
four millions of Roman crowns, pronouncing, at
the fame time that person accursed who ftiould
ever make use of the whole or any part of that
sum, except in the greatest emergency of the Ho
ly See.
The style of the Nabob's living is somewhat cu
rious—He resides in a high tower, amidst all his
women, who are in separate apartments below
him : he can fee them, and all of them can fee
him, but not each other. Whenever any of them
strikes his particular fancy of the day, he fends
down his handkerchief.
On defences, as they are called, of Mr. Hast
ings, but as given in evidence, were written by
different gentlemen,Mr.Slieridan said very neatly
" These, like raw materials, the mafterworkman
" distributes about him to all hands awaiting ; His
" words are to be strung—arguments spun—pas
" sages woven :—He puts his conscience into de
" partments—Major Scot,fays he,take care of my
" conliftency—Mr. Middleton, you have my mc
" vioty in commission ! —Prove me a financier, Mr.
" Shore.—Answer forme, Mr. Holt: (alljour
" neymen, good enough for the house of com
" inons, tliouh not for your lordlhips)—Help,
" one and all, to bear me up under the prefliire
" of my laurels, the burthen of my glory !—Re
" frefh, and save me from the calentures ofmy
" state, from the peril of my own panegyric."
june 2. The defeat which the Turks have
fuffered from the Ruffians is, we find by a letter
from Warsaw, still more considerable than what
appeared in the Vienna Gazette. The principal
circumstances of the acftion are the following :
" General Dorfeldt marched, on the 27th of A
pril, to Maximiniani, where he found a considera
ble body of the enemy, amounting to 8000 men,
on this fide the river Soreth. He attacked and
defeated them, leaving 400 dead on the field, and
taking 107 prisoners, among whom was Jacob
Pacha,who is now at Jafly. Mr. Dorfeldt remain
ed four days at Maximiniani. On thei4th of May,
he advanced to Galacz, which town he found for
tified with redoubts and entrenchments ; life how
ever immediately attacked it, and after a resist
ance of three or four hours, carried the batte
ries, which made a part of the works ; upon this
the Turks, consisting of more than a thousand.
men.surrendered tliemfelves prisoners with their
Ibrahim Pacha; but before the surrender 1500
were killed in the place. The loss of the Ruf
fians was only about 60 killed, 100 wounded.
General worfeldthad his horse killed under him,
and he himfelf fliglitly wounded in the fliould
er."THE RIGHT CONSTITUTION OF A COMMONWEALTH
EXAMINED.
(CON TIU AjTJJ.p N\)
XEDHAM talks of •' senate. and people's feeling the burthens
•' of the fury of the kings but as we cannot accufethis writer
of ignorance, this mult have been either artifice or inadvertence.
There li not in the whole Roman hillory so happy a period as this
under their, kings. The wiiole line were excellent cliara&ers, and
fathers of their people, notwit'.i/hnding the continual cabals of
the nobles agaiuft them. The nation was formed, their morali
ty, their religion, the maxims of their government, were all eita
bhfhed under these kings : The nation was defended againil innu
merable and warlike nations of enemies ; in iftort, Home was
never so well governed or so happy. As soon as the monarchy
was abolished, and an ambitious republic of haughty afpiriug ari
ilocratirs wa* eretted, they were seized with the ambition of
conquest, and became a torment to themselves and the world.
Our author confeifes, that 44 being freed from the kingly yoke,
4i and having fecuredall Dower within the hands of themiejves and
*• their posterity, they fell into the fame absurdities that had been
44 before committed by their kings, lo that this new yoke became
" more intolerable than thetormer." It would be move conform
able to the truth of hillory to fay, that they continued to behave
exactly as they had done ; but having no kings to murder, they
had onlv people to destroy. The .sovereign power was in
them under the kings, and tliei r grealeft animolity againlt their
kings, next to the ambitious defiic of getting into their places, was
their too frequent patronage or the people. The only change
made bv the revolution was to takeoff a little awe which the
name of king ifrifpired. The office, with all its dignities, authori
ties, and powers, was in fa6l continued under the title of consul ;
ic was marie apnuallv elective it is true, and became accordingly
a of the senate, wholly destitute of any power or will
to protect plebeians, a difpoQticjn which the hereditary kings al
ways discovered more or less, thereby became odious to the
senate ; for thi-re is no fin or'crime lo heinous in the judgment of
patricians, as for any one of their own rank to court plebeians,or
become their patron, prritc&or, Or Iriend.
It is very true 44 the nevy yoke was more intQlqrqblf than
44 the old, nor could the people find any remedy until they pro
-44 cured that necellarv office of t"he tribunes." This was form
remrdy,but a very "feeble and ineffectual oiie : Nor, if the people
had inllitnted an annual affeinbly of 500 representatives, would
that have been an effectual remedy, without a plenary executive
power in the consul ; the senate and alfembly wpuld have Ljetii
soon at wir, and the leader of the victorious army mailer of tin
ilate. If 44 the tribunes, by being veiled with a temporary au
44 thority.by the people's election, remained the more fetffible of
i: their condition," the American governors and senators, veiled
as they are with a temporary authority by the people's election.
wHI reniain sensible of their condition too. If they do not be
corhe too sensible of it, and discover that flattery, and bribery,
and partiality, better calculated to procure renovations of their
authority, than honesty, liberty, and equality, happy indeed ihall
we all be !
4i What more excellent patriot could there be th in Mnnlius, till he
44 became corrupted bvtinie and power?" Is it a clear cafe thatMan
iius was cprruptcd ? T«j me he appears the belt patriot in Roman
h'ftory : The m«ft humane,the moll equitable ; .the gjeatdl friend
of liberty, and the mofldefirous oj a conllitution truly free ; the
real friend ps the peonle, an<J the enemy of tyranny in every (hapc ,
as weir as the greatelt hero and warriourof his age—a much greater
chara&er than Camiljus. Our author's cxpreflion implies, that
44 there was no greater patriot," until he fawthe neccflity of new
modelling thp cpnftitytion, anil was concerting measures upon the
true principles of liberty, the authority of the people, to
checks upon the fmate. But Manlius is an unfortunate ipltance
for our author It was not time and power that inspired him
wi.t,h his deligns ; the jealou-fv and envy of the senate had removed
him from power : he was neither consul, di&ator, nor general.
Ariftoc/atical envy had let up Camillus, and continued him in
power, both as consul and dictator, on purpose to rival and mortify
Manlius. Ic was difcontinnance of power then that corrupted
him. if he corrupted ; and this generally happens, disappoint
ed candidates for popular elections arc as often corrupted b/ their
fall from power, as heiediiary anftocratics by their continuance
in it.
44 Who more noble, courteous, and well affe&ed tothe common
44 good tban Appius Claudius at firfl ? Butafterwards, liaving
44 obtained a continuaiiQii ps government in his own hands,
44 he soon loft his primitive innocence and integrity, and deyoted
44 himfelf to all the pra&ices of an absolute tyrant." This is very
tr.ue, b.ut ic was not barely continuation of power, it was absolute
power, that did the mifchief. If the power had been properly
limited in degree, it might have heeu continued, without limitati
on of time, without corrupting him : though it might be better to
limit it, both in degree and in time ; and it mull never be foi
goiten that it was the people, not the senate, that continued him
i:x nower.
Tlie senate ?£led an arbitrarv and reprehcoftblepart, when they
thought to continue Lucius Quintius in the consul/hip longer than
the time limited by law : bv violating the law they became tyrants,
and their ads was void. That gallant man acted only the part of
a good cit-zen in refufing to set a precedent 10 prejudicial to the
Roman conllitution ; bis'inagnanimity merits praise : but perhaps
he was the only senator who woujd have refufed, and we cannot
fafely reckon upon fucb felT-dcii'ial in forrrfing any constitution of
government. But it may be depended on, that when the whole
power is in one afletnbjy, whether of patricians or plebeians, or
-•nv mixture of botl) ? a favourite will be continued in power when
ever the majority wifhrs it, and every conceivable lundamental
2Uw, or even oath, againlt it will be dispensed with.
From the Massachusetts Magazine.
OE NI LEMF. N,
T.ie depth of philological knowledge, j'iftnefs of fentimert, and
gLirity of ftylp, which .ire the characfefilhcs of Mr. WibsterV
Vi/jcrtatwiii on th( Englju Lfinguge, mutt recommend thrin to
the* attention of <v ry American. Perhaps no part of them is
more cftnnation, than those spirited p iges, where he
iras attacked the proud demiGodsof Briulh Literature, and
JjuijiMed their Qcttifs of Hiftoty, iu the dull of Criticism. As
H ivs.rim«n sis hjafuperior .ib'iitics, nice difccrnnient, and c,or
r.st taste," please to insert the iiiliowing. Your (Sic. Z. M.
IVEJISTER's CRITICISMS" UPON CIBBON's
HISTORY.
fW no particular is the falfetafteof the Englilh
more obvious, than in the promii'cuqus cncomiums
lhey have bellowed on Gibbqn, as a liiftorian.
Hii work is not properly a " Hijlory of the de
cline a:id fall of the Roman empive hut a
" poetical historical description of certain persons
and events, embellHhed with luitable imagery find
•episodes, designed to show the author's talent in
felcCtins; woYcls, as well as to delight the ears of
his readers." In his history Hiould be en
titled, " A difplayof words except fomechap
ters which are excellent commentaries on the
hiitory of the Roman empire.
The general fault of this author is, he takes
more pains to form his fcntejiccs, titan to colletft, i
arrange and e::p.ef> the facts in ancafv and per- J
fyicuous manner. In confcquepcc of attending
to ornament, he seems to forget chat lie is writing
for the information of his reader, anil when he
ought to irrjtruft the mind, he is only [> leafing the
ear. t\ully poliefied of his fubjecft, he describes
things and events in general terms or figurative
language, which leave upon the mind a faint
evanescent impreliionoffome.indeterminateidea ;
fp that the reader, not obtaining a clear precil'c
knowlege of the fa<fts, finds it diflicult to under
ltand, and iinpoflible to recollect the author's
meaning. Let a man read his volumes with the
molt laborious attention, and he will find at tin
close that he can give very little account of the
" Roman Empire but he will remember per
fectly that Gibbon is a molt eleg;nt writer.
Hiltory is capablc of very little embellilhinent;
tropes and figures are the proper inltruments 01
eloquence and declamation ; falls only are the sub
jeCts othJJtor, . Renditions of the author are ad
mitted ; but these should not be frequent ; for
the reader claims a right to his own opinions.
The justness ol the historian's remarks may be
called in queftion—facfts only are inconteftible.
The plain narrative of the lcripture historians,
and oi Herodotus, with their dialogues and di
grefiions, is as tar superior, considered as pure
liittory, to the affected glaring brilliancy of Aile
and manner, which runs through Gibbon's wri
tings, as truth is to fiction ; or the vermillion
blush of nature and innocence, to tlie artificial
daubings ot falhion. The firft never fails to
affec't the heart—the last can only dazzle the
senses. Another fault in Gibbon's manner of
writing, is, the use of epithets or titles instead of
names. " The Cafar, tjie conqueror of the ealt,
the protector of the church, the country of the
Citfars, the foil of Leda," and innumerable
linnlar appellations are employed, inltead of the
real names ot the persons and places ; and fre
quently at fucha diltance from any mention of
the name, that the reader is obliged to turn over
a leaf and look for an explanation. Many of the
epithets are new ; custom has not made .us fami
liar with them ; they have never been substituted,
by common consent, for the true names ; the
reader is therefore surprised with unexpected ap
pellations, and constantly interrupted to find the
persons or things to which they belong.
I am not about to write a lengthy criticism
on this author's hiltory ; a few paliages only will
be (elected as proofs of what I have advanced.
" Decline ana Fall of the Roman Empire," vol
3, oift. chap. 17: In explaining the motives of the
hmperors tor removing the feat of governmeni
from Rome to the East, the author fays,—Rom,
was insensibly confounded with the dependeni
kingdoms which had once acknowledged her su
premacy ; and the country of the Ctejars was view
ed with cold indifference by a martial prince
born in the neighbourhood of the P^nube,educa
ted in the courts and armies of Alia, and inverted
with the purple by the legions of Britain." Bj
our author's beginiug one part of the sentence
with Rome, and the otherwith the country of tht
C.rfars, the reader is led to think two different
places are intended, for he has not a suspicion ol
a tautology ; or at lcaft lie l'uppofes the authoi
uses the country of the Ccrfars in a more extensive
sense than Rome. He therefore looks back and
reads perhaps half a page with '.closer attention,
and finds that the writer is speaking of the feat
of empire, anj therefore can mean the city of Rome
only. After this trouble he is dil'pleafed that the
author lias employed five words to fwel] and adorn
bis period. This however is not the only diffi
culty in understanding the author. Who is the
martial prince ? In the preceding sentence, Dio
clefian is mentioned as withdrawing from Rome;
md in the sentence following, Conftantine is said
to \ iiit Rome but seldom. The reader then is
left to colled: the author's meaning, by the cir
cumltances ot the birth, education and election
of this martial prince. If he is pofleffed of these
facts already, he may go on without much trouble,
The author's affectation of using the purple foi
the crown of imperial dignity, is so obvious b}
numberless repetitions of the word, as to be per
fectly ridiculous.
" In the choice of an advantageous situation
he preferred the confines of Europe and Asia ; tc
curb, with a powerful arm, the barbarians whe
dwelt between the Danube and Tanais ; to watch
with an eye of jealousy, the conduct of the Persi
an monarch." Here the members of the sentence
in Italic, are altogether fuperfluous ; the authoi
wanted to inform his reader, that Diocletian de
fined to curb the barbarians and watch the Per
sian monarch ; for which purpose he chose a fa
vorable situation ; but it was wholly immaterial
to the fubjeift to relate in what manner or de-j-ree
the Emperor meant to exert his arm or his jealou-
Cv. Nay, more, thel'e are circumltances which
are not reduceableto any certainty, and of which
the writer and the reader can have no precise idea.
Withthele views, Diocletian had fele(tedand
embellished the rcjidence of Nicbmediau."—ls Ni
comedian a princess, whose residence the Empe
ror feledted and embellished ? This is the raoft
obvious meaning of the sentence. But Nicome
dian we learn from other paflages, was a citv
the residence ufelf of the Emperor. Yet the au
thor could not tell us tliii in a few - 1
without Ipoiliagtlie harmony of'
cliofe therefore to leave it obfeure ami m! ; e
matical. 1 UD S'am-
But the memory of Dioclofi-m
abhorred by the f,rot«hr of-the church - Jj? 1 *
jlantws was not insensible to the anlbi; ion off j
ing a city, which >„igft perpetuate tit, S "
his own name.' VVhoisth
By Conftantine's being
alter one would think he cannot be the W
intended ; yet on examination, this i s so
be the cafe. But why tins separate
it leenis the author meant by it to coiivev rV
idea ; That Dioclefian was a persecutor tfl
church, therefore his memory was abhored b
Conftantine who was its protector ; tit
Ceujlautinr x abhorrence implied, and
be unfolded to the reader in a finale eokW i
this history ! I mutt have the liberty to think th
inch terfetufs of ihle, notwithstanding the autho
rities of Tacitus and Gibbon is a ornfs com,!'
tion and a capital fault.
PROGRESS OF \UmFA ~TIRE-.
A correspondent übferves, that there
was such a spirit of industry, and zeal top*
mote manufactures, in this town ami its viciuiu
as at preient prevail, rtlmoftever.y family ieeiK
more or less engaged in this way. There arc
now alio at work a carding machine, witha
three feet cylinder, two spinning Jennies of 6:
spindles each, and one of 58 spindles, and an!
after Arkwright Vconftruction, which carries
spindles by water ; fiom which machines, s
well as from large quantities ipun bv hand/cor
duroys, jeans, fuitians, denims, &. &c. arc
making.—There are fcvcral other jennies ertd
ing for the cotton, as well as carding and other
machines for the wool manufa&ory, amon"
which the wool picker and flying shuttle are m
provements every raifer of iheep and manufstS
uring family lhould poflefs. They are attended
with little expence, and greatly facilitate la
bour. As sheep are the molt profitable Itockthat
can be railed, and on their incrtafe depends tic
increase of our woolen manufactory,every fanner
who can raile flieep will lhew his love to his
country, as well as promote his own interest, by
increasing his flock. By this attention, as alio
an increased care in the raifer* of cotton in the
southern Rates to have it picked clean from tie
pod, kept free from dirt of every kind, proper
ly fepa rated, that which is fully ripe from that
which is not, aud having it cleaned in jennies
that will not inafli but separate the feed, we may
reft allured that there will be no occasion for
fending money out of the country for purchas
ing clothing. This care, adds our corres
pondent, must be highly interesting to the
southern states, in order to give their cotton its
proper value, as for want of this care it is leffep
ed atleaft 50 per cent, a great discouragement to
fall on the raifers, when by proper care they
might in time rival the Weft-India planters in
the production of that valuahle article, as iti
quality, when in perfection, needs not to tc
doubted.
NATIONAL MONITOR. No. XVI.
" O HAPPY, IF THEY KNEW THEIR HAPPY STATE."
LIKE mariners ejeap'dfromfkip wreck, weflandaj!flnifkcd.ittkiir.-
gen that awnted vs : li'/ien ice contemplate our situation and profftt:
under the auspices of the new Confiitution, u ire smile at the
enjoy thf flormV Haying piloted theJhip into a fcourt harbour, t'kt
remains, but that we enjoy the jruits of our labor, and make ththfi
prpvemeiit of the favours we have received from Heaven f Injf)'"j 1
country which abounds with all that nature can bejiow for convtiitin
enjoyment, and delight—biejjed with that firft of all earthly Nefifi 1
government of our own chufing, and which every day atp'reciitts tfi W
eflrem —and having the ad mini (Iration of it committed to the tirft
of our tried patriots and flqtrfmen y what can uie want to crown wj l '
hcity, but the accordance of our own wilts.
Happiness is evidently within our grasp : It invites andallunsif 1 "
its embrace.*, by every attraction, which wifdon can fi<rgejl,
iicy would desire: She fays to America, be wife, and know, and we
ttings which belong to your present and future peace: But her Jm'" "
t'lo attainable, are the result of exertion. No acfu/fitions are vim" l *
pr ice : Happiness for our country is offered upon the mojl
but terms} are annexed-THEY ARE PATRIOTISM, OBEV 1 *
ENCE AND SUPPORT TO THE LAWS, AND DILIGENT
AND ACTIVITY IN OUR RESPECTIVE
rhefe will traXKjuilize the public mind—givi energy,
dig;uty to the government, and enjure felicity to individuals,
communities, and States : And can We decline the purchase as a p vJ
pic ? HEAVEN FORhID > _
PRICE, CURRENT. •SEIV^YOKH
Jamaica Spirits, - &!•
Antigua Ram, - - - 4/8. <* 4JJ'
St. Croix, do. - - & ifi-
Country, do. - -
MaialTcs, - t/2. 2 /°-
Brandy, - 5/6. <* tfy
Geneva, - r - - sjh
Do. in cases, - - 2%f. & 2 9j-
Muscovado Sugar, - - 56/ a 7y*
Loaf, do. - - J/J'
Lump, do. - - V}*
Pepper, ... 2/0. a eyio.
Pimento, - y9- 1 5
Chocolate, - Vf
Cocoa, - - - 75/* a '
Coffee, - - «/&• " '/r
_ R^cf' (Caro -" a) " - "
Publiftied by JOHN FENNO, No
Lanje, near the Ofwe?o-Market. New-York,-—' w 2 °-r