[jjo. XL.]
THE TABLE T. No. XL.
ii Jn ill disposed citizen can do no gr-at harm, ex
cept in an ill difpofcd city."
MOST of the good or evil which happens
in society is ascribed to the agency of" ve
rVfe\v individuals. From this cause partial and
inadequate remedies are applied for the removal
ofdiforders which are general and permanent.
]n any community where enormous vices, or a
handoned characters exilt, it argues some radical
defect of institutions.
The natural indolence of the human mind
makes men contented with a flight and fuperfici
al view of things. It therefore happens that a
jew characters are apt to be marked out, as the
only instruments of the happinel's or misery of
which the world participates.
If the bulk of the inhabitants are inspired with
(rood principles, and formed into good habits,
they may be almost certain of prosperity. The
means are commensurate to the end. Those very
people however may select foine confpicu
ousindividuals as objects of adoration, and idol
ize them as the authors of those bleflings, which
result from the well ordered conduct of the so
c iety at large. On the other hand, in a very
loose, depraved state of morals, the most eminent
talents and uncorrupted integrity of a few men,
may not be fufficient to save a country from de
ftruftion ; and they may he charged with want of
wisdom or virtue,for not warding off evils, which
inevitably flowed from fucli general depravity.
Toiniitateand applaud such diltinguifhed virtues
has a good effect, whether "they are crowned
with the popular approbation or not. By over
awing; the good qualities of any individuals, it
llimulates others to pratftife similar virtues, and
aim at similar a tain meats.
The weakness of heaping too profufe encotni
umsupon illustrious talents and patriotifin, is not
so inconvenient as a miflake of a contrary nature.
Great inconvenience may attend the extremes of
acenforious temper. It may single out particu
larmen as victims to popular resentment, and
doom them a facrifice for evils which happen
through the general depravity of the times. An
ingenious writer, observing upon the complaints
of afa&ious felfilh people against their men in
office,draws a comparison between tliein and some
Carthagenian armies : Who being-at once cow
ardly and in lolent, ran away at the light of an
enemy, and then crucified their Generals for not
gaining the victory.
Few men have either disposition or talents to
attend to a minute investigation of causes. When
erroror calamity prevails, it is a much easier fo
lutio.i of the matter to charge them upon some
fatflts of individuals than to search out a cause in
the general temper and conduct of the mass of
thepeople. Men feel a certain pride in being
free,and lo >k upon their privileges too important
to lie still and nnexerted. They wish to give
frequent demonstrations that they are not igno
rant ofwhatthey poflefs. The more busy, active
spirits feel an impatience to display their rights,
and suppose they can only shew a commendable
care and vigilance over the liberties of the com
munity, in proportion as they reprobate the con
daft of men in administration.
Theliberty of a country cannot be destroyed
by the blunders or by the intrigues of small coin
binations. No people can lose their freedom
while they deserve to poflefs it. The occasional
mistakes of a few men produce no permanent
disasters. While the principles exifl which made
apeoplc free,they cannot be duped or forced in
to slavery: When those principles are loft, the
people may retain the name of freedom, but they
ire in reality Haves "In the reign of James
the second, Great Britain was free, though a
nefpotic prince was on the throne : At the time
when Cafar fell, Rome was still enslaved though
the tyrant was no more."
I will close this number with an extract from a
friiiih'e author. It is designed to illustrate the
a that the duration and prosperity of states de
pend on general and permanent causes.
Our manners depend upon our notions and
"pinions ; and our opinions and notions are the
feiult of education. There need not examples
„ rom hiflory to prove that the well-being of a
Jjte depends upon the education of theiryouth.
re cannot be a good and wife community made
J'Pof foolifh and vicious individuals ; and indi
•"•uaU cannot be made wife or cood, but by edu
ction.
'" all well regulated states the two principal
. oi.i'S in wiew in the education of youth ought
c ; firft to make them good men, good mem
, eis of the universal society of mankind ; and
" ,= riext place, to frame their minds in such a
SATURDAY, August 29, 1739.
manner, as to make them most nfeful to that so
ciety to which they belong ; and to (hapc their
talents in such a way as will render them most
serviceable to the support of that government un
der which they were born, and upon the strength
and vigor of which, the well-being of everyin
diuiclual must in some measure depend. If nei
ther of these points are provided for in our fy
item, I cannot fee how we are to expedt good
men or good fubjeifts. Naythe contrary must in
general be the consequence ; for tlje mind of man
jeing active will neceflarily find itfelf employ
ment. If our youth are not trained up in the
"ight way, they will probably go wrong ; if they
ire not taught to do good, they will be likely to
commit evil."
AMERICAN SUGAR.
IN the Pennsylvania Gazette of the 22a of
Dclober, there is a receipt for making sugar from
he fapof the maple tree,from wheiice I conclude it
is deemed a matter of some importance,both to the
country and those who have a great many of tliofe
trees 011 their land. I therefore think it would
be advifeable for two or three people in a neigh
bourhood, where theri* is a fulficient number of
trees, to engage a person who understands boil
ing sugar, to boil a season for them. He should
be under obligation to instruCt his employers,
or such persons as they fhuold think proper, how
lo do the business ; ' by this means, a greater
knowledge in the art of boiling might be acquir
ed, than by thebeft treatise that could be wrote
on the fubjecft; but as it is probable that few, if
any, of the inhabitants of those parts where the
trees grow, would go to the expence of employ
ing a man to boil for them, I shall make some
obi'ervations on making sugar from the sap of the
maple, that may po:iibly be ufeful to such as
engage in this business.
If the sap is drawn into wooden vefl'els, care
should be taken that they are made of such wood
is will not give the liquor a bad taste. Some ma
ple sugar has a disagreeable taste, occafioned,as I
lave been informed,by the sap having been put into
:rays made of white walnut. If the moulds are
made of wood, theyalfo should be made of some
kind of tree that will give no taste. The great
sftpart of the maple sugar I have seen has too small
a grain ; which is owing to two causes, one is,
the makers do not use lime or ley, or any thing
to make it granulate; the other is, that they
boil the sugar too much. The quantity of lime
neceflary to answer the purpose 1 cannot exactly
ascertain, but I suppose a heaped fpoonful of
fiacked lime would be fufficient for about fix gal
lons of sap. A judicious person, after a few tri
als, would be able to fix what would be the due
proportion. It may however be proper to men
tion, that if the quantity of lime is too final],
the sugar will not be fufficiently grained; if too
much, it will give the sugar a reddish cast. I
have observed, that the sugar should not be
boiled so much as is the common pracfiice. That
vhich runs from one sixth of its weight 111 molartcs
t O
in 24 hours after it is put to drain, I think has
been boiled properly ; perhaps in three or four
weeks afterwards, it will run the like quantity
□f molafies, making the whole of the running
about one third of the weight of the green su
gar. It is most probable that those who have
been accustomed to high boiling, in order to get
as much sugar as pofhble from the firft procels,
will not approve of this method, but perhaps
may be better reconciled to it, when they are in
formed, that if they boil this -molafles or sirup
witliftrong lime-water, one third of the latter to
two thirds of molasses, there is reason to expedl
it will make good sugar, although not equal to
the firft fort.
I lhall now give some Directions for the
making of Maple Sugar.
Let all the sap that has been collecfred in one
day be boiled the day folio wing,left it should fer
ment,in which cafe the sugar will be less in quan
tity and worse in quality. To carry on the bu
siness to the greatest advantage, there should be
at least three kettles of different dimensions ; per
haps such as would contain 50, 60, and 70 gal
lons, would be large enough to make the trial
with. These kettles should be fixed in a row,
the smallest at one end, the middle-sized next,
and the largest al the other end. When there
is a quantity of sap collected, put as much in the
largest kettle as can be conveniently boiled iu it,
then throw in as much lime or ley as may be deem
ed neceilary to make the liquor granulate, keep
a moderate fire for some time, and as the scum
rises take it off with a skimmer ; after the liquor
is pretty clear increase the fire and boil it brisk
ly till so much is evaporated as that which re-
r Published o>i Wedtufday and Saturday.']
mains may be boiled in the middle kettle ; * into
which it mull be drained through a blanket ; un
der this kettle keep a good fire, and take off the
scum as it rises. As soon as the liquor is taken
from the large and put into the middle kettle,
frefh sap mult be put into the former and treated
as before directed, and so on till all the sap is
boiled. When the liquor is fufticiently evaporat
ed in the middle kettle, to admit its being boiled
in the smallest, it must be put into thelaft, where
itmuft be boiled until it gets to a proper consis
tency to make sugar. When the liquor is taken
from the middle kettle into the smallest, the
former mult be supplied as before directed
from the largest, and the largest with frefh
sap. The liquor in the smallest kettle must
be boiled briskly until it gets pretty thick/when
:he fire should be leflened to prevent its bur
ning,—when the liquor riles in the kettle, a
piece of butter or fat, the bigness of a hazle
nut, may be thrown in; if this quantity does
not make it boil flat, more should be added until
it answers the purpose, and this must be repeat
ed as often as the liquor rises* When it is boil
ed enough, which may bt known fioin the man
ner f of its roping between the thumb and finger,
it must be put into'a cooler or tub,, when the
[mail kettle must be supplied with liquor from
:he middle sized one, that with more from the
largelt, and that wich freih sap as is before di
rected. When one third of the sap that has been
:ollecfted is boiled and put into the cooler, it rjiuft
be stirred about briskly with a stirring flick
(which may be made like a finall paddle) "until
it grains, when it may be left (if the buiinefs has
been well done) until another third of the liquor
lias been boiled and put into the cooler, it must
then be moved about with the stirring stick un
til the whole is well mixed ; when itmuft be put
into moulds, earthen would be best. but wooden
moulds may be made to answer the purpose, by
nailing or pinning four boards together, so shap
ed as to make the mould one inch diameter at
bottom, and ten or twelve inches at top ; the
length may be two feet or two feet and a half, —
these moulds must be clofelv flopped at the finall
ends with old coarse linen or some such
and set up with some thing to flay them ; the su
gar must then be taken from the cooler and pour
ed into the moulds—next morning the stoppers
must be taken out and the moulds put on troughs
or some veflel to drain their molalfes.—ln the e
vening the loaves must be pierced at the finall
ends, to make them run their sirup freely—this
may be done by driving a wooden pin (shaped
like amarling-fpike) three or four inches up the
loaf ; after which they must be left to drain their
molafles, which will be done in a longer orfhortr
er time according as the sugar has been boiled.
No part of the business requires greater atten
tion than granulating or grainingthe sugar in the
cooler, and afterwards frequently observing the
state it is in. If too thick, it may be etnedied
by boiling the remaining liquor lov:e! than that
which was boiled before : if too thin, by stirring
the cooler again, and boiling the remainder of
the liquor higher or more.
A SUGAR BOILER.
Philadelphia, August 21, 1789.
* Some liquor should be left in the large kettle, if
an iron one, otherwise there mould be danger of its
fpHtting upon putting in cold liquor.
f Dip a flick into the liquor, apply the thumb to it,
and take part of'juhat adheres to the flick, then draw
it tiuo or three times between the thumb and finger.
Anecdote of RICHARD 111.
From the Northern Tour of the Scv'd'W. Gilpin.
IN the town of Leicester, the lioufe is still shewn
where Richard palled the night before the bat
tle of Bofworth ; and there is a story of him,
still preserved in the Corporation Records, which
illullrates the caution and darkness of that Prin
ce's character. It was his custom to carry, among
the baggage of his camp, a cumbersome wooden
bed, which he pretended was the only bed he could
sleep on. Here he contrived a secret receptacle
for his treasure, which lay concealed under a
weight of timber. After the fatal day on which
Richard fell, the Earl of Richmond entered Leices
ter with his victorious troops—the friends of
Richard were pillaged ; but the bed was neglec
ted by every plunderer, as useless lumber. The
owner of the house afterwards dilcovering the
hoard, became suddenly rich,without any visible
canfe. He bought lands, and at length arrived
arthe dignity of being Mayor of Leicester. Many
years afterwards his widow,who had been left in
great affluence, was murdered for her wealth by
a servant maid, who had been privy to the affair ;
and at the trial of this woman and her nccomplices,
the whole tranfadtion catue to light.CONGRESS of the UNITED STATES.
IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, MONDAY,
AUGUST 24, I 789.
RESOLVED, by the Senate and House of Repre
sentatives of the United States of America in Con
gress aflembled, two thirds of both houses deem
ing it neceflary, that the following articles be
proposed to the several states, as amendments to
the conilitution of the United States ; all, or any
of which articles, when ratified by three
fourths of the said legislatures,- to be valid, to
all intents and purposes, as part of the said con
ltitution.
ARTICLES in addition to, and amendment of the
Constitution of the United States of America, propos
ed by Congress and ratified by the legislatures of the
several States, pursuant to the $th article of the 0-
riginal conjUtutien.
Article i. After the firft eriumeration re
quired by the firft article of the conilitution,
there shall be one representative for every thirty
thousand, untill the number shall amount to one
hundred, after which the proportion shall be lb
regulated by Congress, that there shall not be
less than one hundred reprei'entatives, nor
less than one representative for every forty thou
sand persons, until the number of reprei'entatives
shall amount to two hundred, after which the
proportion (hall be so regulated by Congress, that
there shall not be less than two hundred repre
sentatives, nor less than one representative for
eveiy fifty thousand persons.
A t. 2. No law varying the compensation
to the members of Congress shall take effect, un
til an election of representatives fliall have inter
vened. (
Art. 3. Congress shall make no law eflab
lifhing religion, or prohibiting the free exercise
thereof, nor shall the rights of conscience be in
fringed.
Art. 4. The freedom of speech, and of the
press, and the right of the people peaceably to
afiemble. and consult for their common good,
and to apply to the government for a redress of
grievances, shall not be infringed.
Art. j. A well regulated militia, composed
of the body of the people, being the bell fecuri
ty of a free state, the right of the people to keep
and bear arms shall not be infringed, but no one
religioufly/crupulous of bearing arms, shall be
compelled to render military service in person.
Art. 6. No soldier shall in time of peace be
quartered in any house without the consent of
the owner, nor in time of war, but in a manner
to be p*efcribed by law.
Art. 7. The light of the people to be secure
in their persons, houses, papers and effects against
nnreafonable searches and seizures, shall not be
violated ; and no warrants shall ifliie, but upon
probable cause supported by oath or affirma
tion, and particularly describing the place to be
searched, and the persons or things to be seized.
Art. 8. No person shall be subject, except in
cafe of impeachment, to more than one trial or
one punishment for the fame offence, nor shall
"be compelled in any criminal cafe, to be a wit
ness against himfelf, nor be deprived of life, li
berty or property, without due process oflaw, nor
lhall private property be taken for public use with
out just compensation.
Art. 9 In all criminal prosecutions, the ac
crfed shall enjoy the right to a speedy and pub
lic trial, to be informed of the nature and cause
of the accusation, to be confronted with the wit
nefies against him, to have compulsory process
for obtaining witnefTes in his favour, and to have
the assistance of counsel for his defence.
Art. to. The trial of all crimes (except in
cases of impeachment, and in cases arifingin the
land or naval forces, or in the militia when in
actual service in time of war or public danger)
shall be by an impartial jury of the vicinage,
with the requisite of unanimity for conviction;
the right of challenge and other accultomed
requisites ; and no person shall beheld toanfwer
for a capital orotlierwife infamouscrime, unless
on a prefenim ens or indictment by a grand jury ;
but if a crime he committed in a place in the pof
feflion of an enemy, or in which an infmretftion
may prevail, the indictment and trial may by
law be authorized in some other place within the
fame state.
Art. 11. No appeal to the Supreme Court of
the United States shall be allowed, where the
value in controversy shall not amount to one thou
land dollars ; nor shall any fact triable by a jury
according to the course of the common law, be o
tlierwife re-examinable, than according to the
rules of common law.
Art. 12 In suits common law, the right
of trial by jury shall be preserved.
Art. 13; ExceCive bail shall not be required,
nor excessive fines imposed, nor cruel and unu
sual punishments inflicted.
Art. 14. No state shall infringe the right of
trial byjury in criminal cases, nor the rights of
conscience, nor the freedom of speech, or of the
press.
Art. 15. The enumeration in the conilitution
of certain rights shall not be conftruedto deny or
disparage others retained by the people.
Art. 16 The powers delegated by the con
stitution to the government of the United States,
shall be exercised as therein appropriated, fothat
the legillative shall never exercise the powers
veiled iri the executive or judicial; nor the exe
cutive the powers veftecl in the legislative or ju
dicial ; nor rhe judicial the powers veiled the le
g illative or executive.
Art. 17. The powers ; not delegated by the
conftirution, nor prohibited by it to the ltates,
are reserved to the states refpedlively.
Ordered, that the Clerk of this lioufe do carry
to the senate a fair and engrofled copy of the
said proposed articles of amendment, and desire
their concurrence. Ext raft froj/i the journals,
JOHN BECKLEY, Clerk.
SKETCHQFPROCEEDINCSOF CONGRESS.
111 the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES.
WEDNESDAY, AUGUST 26, I 789.
A PETITION from Joseph Wheaton, Serjeant
at arms, praying the appointment of a com
mittee, to examine certain scandalous reports
propagated refpeifting him ; was read, and order
ed to lie on the table.
Petitions were severally received from James
M'Lane, and Joseph Reed ; invalids in the ser
vice of the United States, praying provision to
be made for thenn
Mr. Goodhuk presented the report of a com-
on the memorial of the merchants of
Dumfries, Alexandria, George-town, &c. which
was ordered to lie on the table.
In Committee of the whole, on the bill to pro
vide for the fafe keeping of the a<fis, records,
and great seal of the United States, See.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
,^. r ' Sedgwick moved to insert a clause en
joining the payment of all fees to be received in
the department of secretary of Prate, into the
treasury : This motion was negatived.
1 he clause for establishing fees for searching
the records was struck out of the bill.
Mr. Sedgwick said, since the motion for pay
ing the fees into the treasury is negatived, I hope
the whole clause respecting thein will beexpung-
I atn opposed to increasing the emoluments
of an office in this way: I hope we fnall never
establish such a precedent in this government.
1 his indirect mode of taxing the people is liable
to a variety of objections—lt will be increasing
the income of an office to an amount which e
ludes all calculation.—Every public officer should
receive a competent allowance for his services
this officer will be very refpeifiable, and very re
sponsible ; and ought therefore to beliandfomely
supported by a known salary ; and I trust the sum
intended will be generous—l hope therefore that
all clauses respecting fees will be struck out: Not
that I wish the ideaof deriving an advantage from
them to the public, should be abandoned : We
ought to turn our attention to every source from
whence money can be diretted into the public
treasury, without burthening the people—this
I consider as one from whence considerable sums
may be drawn with ease and facility—it is a cus
tom the people have been used to, and in which
they will continue cliearfully to acquiesce ; more
especially when they consider that the finall fuins
they are called upon to pay for receiving the evi
dences of their appointment to an office perhaps
for life, are appropriated to public uses : I mean
therefore to renew the proposition, when the bill
comes before the house ; when I hope that upon
more more mature contemplation of the fubjed:,
it will be adopted. He then moved that the clause
should be struck out, which was seconded.
Mr. I itzsimons opposed striking out the
words. I hefe fees are to be received for extra
services—services which must be paid for in this
or fonie other mode, since the house has not
thought proper to establish another department.
Mr. Stone made a dlfti 11 ction in the services
to be performed by the secretary of state : The
services he is to render the public as secretary,
he is to receive an adequate compensation for
by a salary For other services, which by law he
is to do for individuals, he ought to be paid for
by those inividuals ; and for this reason I confid
er, said he, the fees proper.
Mr. Gerry was in favour of striking out the
clause.
Mr. Hartley. I hope Sir, the clause will not
be struck out; we are told that the public is not
to be put to any additional expence on account of
annexing tliefe duties to this office ; and for this
1 eafon the proposition for a new department has
been repeatedly rejected.
It is evident that an additional number of clerks
for the discharge of the business will be necefla
iy, how are they to be paid ?—The public is not
tobe burthened—l hope we shall retain the clause.
Mr. Laur nce observed, that if individuals
have a right to apply for, and be furnifhed with
copies of papers ; it is but reasonable that they
should pay for such copies. If they apply on ac
count of the public, the public ought to be charg
ed with the expence : If the application is for
their own private advantage, they certainly ought
to pay for employing the servants of the public ■
other wife it will be unequal. There will be but
few applications Comparatively /peak;™ .
thole may engross a great proportion of Sdl®
for which the pubhc is charged. me >
Mr. Sherman observed, as tile officer
cei ve a (alary for his whole services aud ,1 .
every individual in the community c ont rih
it would give more general fatisfadion
should be the whole emolument. We fhaii .
pect, set the salaries so high as will cau( -' r"'
uneasiness ; and if in addition, we add fee"™'
Mr. Li verm ore observed that it is a very <r,„
eral custom for officers intruded with public
pers, to receive fees for giving copies, and other
ervices of this kind, in addition to their fakrie!
It we do not make lome such regulation, we&all
have every perlon applying upon the moll triffl,„'
occasion, who would find employment for mar,
than too clerks
The fees received may be fufficient to pay f or
the additional duties annexed to this department
I am not in favour of high fees—a finall coniider
ation will be fufficient.
The motion for Hiking out the fees was negatived
The commitee then proceeded to discuss there
mainder of the bill; which being finilhed, the
committee rose and the chairman reported the
Tame as amended.
The lioufe immediately took the report into
consideration.
Mr. Sedgwick renewed his motion for pro
viding that the fees ihould be paid into the trea
sury, which was again negatived.—The amend
ments being agreed to, it was ordered that the
bill be engrofled for a third reading to-morrow.
A meflage was received from the President of
the United States, by Mr. Secretary Lear, with
the refoWe of both houses, for compleatingthefur
vey orderedby the lateCongrefs ; to whichtheap
probation and signature of the President is affixed.
Mr. Secretary Oris brought down from the
senate, a bill providing for the regifteringveflels,
and to regulate the coasting trade; in which
they have concurred, with amendments.
These amendments were taken into considera
tion, butthe time did not admit of going through
with them this day. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, AUGUST 27-
The committee appointed for the purpose, re
ported that they had examined the enrolled bill
for eftabliffiing the treasury department, and
found the fame correcft.
It was moved and seconded that the speaker
sign the fame, who accordingly affixed his signa
ture thereto.
The engrofled bill to provide for the fafekeep
ing of the acfts, records and great seal of United
States, and for other purposes was read a third
time and pafled to be enacted.
The amendments of the senate to the coasting
bill were then taken into consideration—and a
greed to with some finall variations. The sen
ate have reduced the fees in this bill; among ci
thers—for
Every register from 3to 2 Dollars.
Subsequent ditto 2 to I and jo cents,
Certificate of enrolment Ito jo ditto.
Licence to trade or carry p
on the whale or bank > I to jo ditto,
fiffieries for one year, _)
Every bond for licence ? j
to trade, } 10 d,tto
- Vi ni n g presented to the lioufe an ad of
the state of Delaware, offeringthe United States
the jurifdicftion over ten milesfquare, inanypart
of that state. should Congress make choice there
of for the permanent residence of the federal
government —which was read and laid on the
table.
Mr. Heister presented to the house arepre
fentation of the inhabitants of the borough of
Reading in Pennsylvania, Hating the advanta
geous situation of that place, and their wifhesto
have it made choice of, as the place of the per
manent residence of the federal government—
which was read and laid on the table.
A similar representation from the inhabitants
of Germantown, and the inhabitants of Carlisle,
both in the state of Pennsylvania, and the
of the state of Pennsylvania, ceding the ju
rifdicftion of ten miles square to the United States,
were read, and laid on the table.
Mr. Gerry presented a supplementary report
to the estimate of the neceflary supplies for the
year 1789, —read and referredto the committee of
ways and means. _ ,
Mr. Smith (S. C.) of the committee appointed
for the purpose, brought in a bill providing f° r
the eftabliffiing hospitals for disabled seamen,
and for the regulation of harbours —which was
read the firft time. ,
This bill states that hospitals be eftabhlne
and maintained in such sea port towns in the
nited States as the President ffiall direjft, by
deduction from the wages of seamen, which cap
tains and commanders of vefl'els shall pay t° 1 5
officers of the customs at each entry of their ve
fels. ,
Mr. Scott, agreeable to notice, moved are 0
lution to the following effetS:: That ap lU ffht to be fixed for the permanent residence of
°i e General Government, as near the centre
population, wealth, and extent of territory
as is confident with the convenience of the At
lantic navigation, having also due regard to the
western territory. He then moved to make this
the order of the day for Thursday next.
Mr. Sherman objected—he observed that the
jj o ufe has as muc"i important business before them,
aS they can pofiibly dispatch without entering on
this. Neither is the government in polleifiou of
resources at present for the ellablilhment of a fe
deral town. He therefore moved that the se
cond Monday in December next be assigned for
taking this matter into consideration.
Mr. Hartley. I hope, Sir, the motion will
prevail. Gentlemen who live near New-York
may perhaps be fatiified to postpone this subjeCt
for ten or a dozen years : But justice to the in
habitants of this city requires that it should be
soon fettled. They are going into large expell
ees for erecting a palace for the President, and for
other objects ; if the presumption, on which this
project is founded, is not well grounded, it is
fuft and proper that they Ihould be undeceived.
A regard for their intereits therefore requires
that we should let them know what they are to
depend upon.—He also observed that some atten
tion ought to be paid to the petitions of the
people refpeifting a permanent feat.
Mr. Burk fuggelted that it will be doing great
jnjuftice to the southern states to fix on lb early
a day in the next session, as it is not probable that
the members from thole states will be then pre
sent.
Mr. Fitzsimons said the present is the most
proper time to determine this business. There is
now a pretty full representation ; It is not proba
ble that at any future time, there will be so great
a number collecfted, certainly not at any period
in a winter felfion. It is true there is much im
portant bufinels beforeCongrefs : But what more
important than the subject proposed. It is a
question about which people are much agitated.
As to the expence, that is an after consideration.
The present objeCt is only to fix on the place.—
Whether the removal is to be made this year or
next is a diltindt business.
Mr. Sherm in said, that he moved the second
Monday in December,merely to accommodate the
gentlemen who are prelfing. It is evident that
we all have too little time thisfeafon. If the gen
tleman from South-Carolina thinks it too early
a day for the southern members, I am willing to
agree to» a more distant time.
In addition to the arguments for deferingthis
matter, there is another important considera
tion. The Union is not yet complete. North-
Carolina and Rhode-Island have not yet a voice
—It is supposed it will not be long before those
states will become members of the Union.
Mr.S.MiTh (S. C.) moved, that the firlt Monday
in January next, Ihould be assigned for the taking
upthis subjeCt—He was opposed to going into it
at present, and enumerated feveralrefons to shew
tharthe other business could not be put off. The
judiciary bill is prelfing, and has been the order
of the day for several weeks. The funding of
the public debt is also important, and is earneltly
expected. It is of little consequence, he said,
'Jlitre the duty which the houf'e owe to their con
ftituentsis executed,provided it is done, and done
to their fatisfaCtion.
Mr. Scott observed, that a principle of the
Union in which we are bound is the principle of
reciprocal and equal justice.—The question now
before the house is a grand link in the chain of
tie federal fyftein. The peace of the United
States depends as much on this as on any other
question which can come before Congress. An a
doption of some fuchmeafure is apiece of justice
due to the extremities of the continent. It be
ing therefore a point with them, and a point of
justice too, I cannot conceive how any gentleman,
who has the good of the country at heart can op
pose it.
The resolution holds out this general idea,that
the federal government ought to be fixed at that
pace which is most central with refpeft to popu
lation and territory, having an equal regard to
'lie Atlantic and western part of the union. No
in the western country ever wiflied any thing,
urther than that when the central line between
the northern and southern extremities was fixed,
ongrefs Ihould establish their feat as far back on
1 is line, as the conveniency of maritime com
merce would allow.
1 think the people have a right to demand this,
this principle is adinited the fubieCt cannot in
volve much debate.
This is a favorable moment to fettle the great
<jueti°n -which lias agitated the mass of the peo-
Pe tor several years. We may be allured that
ongiefs at this time poflefles all their virtue and
nocence, but it is to be feared that will not be
eca ein future : Congress are now clear of all
rations, aiK ' as destitute as possible of the spirit
ni' ; P a! J t - v am ' local views. In a future day faction
Pe/ V" 6 le S overn ment to fix oil some impro-
one tw ° events will result from
after t er they will be obliged again to remove
ex pending great funis of money on this
imprudent establishment, or the union will be
diilolved.
Mr. Livermore said that the two houses ha<:
come to a resolution to adjourn ne<xt month.—
Many weighty matters are ltill before the Legisla
ture. How much time a difculfion of this fub
jei'i will require, is uncertain. It may engross
a great deal, and there is danger of its producing
that auimolity and party spirit, which the mea
l'ure itfelf proposes to guard againlt. Let us firl'.
finifh the organization of government, and tht
performance of those important duties which the
public anxiously expert of us.
I do not underltand, said he, that any gentle
man is uneasy in his present situation. I havi
heard no complaints. Congrefsare well accom
modated in this city. There may be other places /
to be sure, in which they might find accommoda
tions, but I believe both the citizens of New-
York, and the members of the Legislature are
mutually fatisfied—l have not heard of any me
morial from the former requeftingus to remove—
Many parts of the country indeed seem to be in
a fever to have us with them ; especially the Stare
of Pennsylvania—Carlisle, Lancaster, York town,
German-town, and Reading have lent us abun
dance of petitions, setting forth their various ad
vantages, and we v/ifhthat they may enjoy them.
If they are pleasantly situated and have plenty
of fiih, we are glad to hear it.
I cannot fee any reason for postponing all our
important matters in order to consider this—lf
we can dispatch all these matters by next spring,
and the roads should be so impaflable, that we
ihouldnot be able to get home, I shall be for ta
king it up.
He then observed, that the idea of a permanent
feat is not itfelf llritftly true. As population in
creases, and as men of" new principles and *iews
take their feats in Congress, this permanent feat
may be altered at pleafure—lt is certainly wife
in congress to be economical—lt is always found
a very expensive thing to remove, —And the finan
ces of the country are not at present a lequate to
many new expences—A gi eat variety of objedts
are necefiary to be :aken into view in fixing the
leat of government, besides the mathematical cen
trality—Thehealthinefeof the situation is a capi
tal circumstances to be attended to.
Mr. Scott objected to the cavalier manner in
which he thought the gentleman treated the fub
jett.
Mr. Jackson flad the existence of the Union
depends 011 this subject. The place of the feat of
government is important in every view. It may
be compared to the heart in the human body ; it
is a center from which the principles of lite are
carried to the extremities.
It is indifferent to me whether the febjedt is
determined now or next feflion, but I think it best
that the motion lhould lie on the table.
Mr. Stone observed that this will be a very
important business, and it is necefiary to be ex
tremely cautious in conducting it. I know of no
question which will have such a tendency to pro
duce heats and divilions which arise chiefly from an
indiscreet mode of conducting matters of this kind.
I am glad to fee the temperate spirit with which
the house has set out, and! wilh it maycontinufe.
No question will so fully try the temper of this
body as the present.
The question was then taken on Mr. Smith's
motion, and was loft—Ayes 21—Noes 30.
M . Ames I would afk,Sr, it the original motion is not incon
fiftant with the resolution of the house to adjourn on the 2ad of
September ? A committee, said he, has been appointed to report
the business of the present feflion. Tne corftmittee reported, and
so much of that report was accepted, as related to the time of ad
journment. It seems to me therefor , that the proportion to take
up this fubjeft at the present time, is fuperceded. lam confident
that it is inconsistent with that determination It will become
necefiary therefore to rescind that determination, and whether
that will be done or not, mult depend on the disposition of the
Senate. If they should not concur, the Legislature will be obliged
to leave the moil important business unfinifhed.
I connot suppress some emotions of surprize that gentlemen can
bring forward questions which have not for their obj £1 the com
plete organization of the government. The government yet lies
prostrate and inanimate, and inflead of infufing life into it, and
giving it motion, we have been in the firft place altering our con
ltitution, and now wcare going into a longdifcufi&on to determine
where we (hall fit.
If the gentleman't motion onlj involved a few abftraft propo
rtions, it would still be uncertain how difficult their decision might
be. But were I a stranger I should apprehend, from the manner
in which the motion ha been introduced, that it would be a ques
tion agitated withas much acrimony as any whatever.
I have observed that even on the most trifling question it is ex
tremely difficult to obtain unanimity. What then mutt t>e the
division on a question, which* gentlemen have said, concerns the
existence or peace of the union ! I believe it will involve as
many paflions as can reside in the humanheart. Every
principleof local interest, of pride and honor, and even of patrio
tism itfelf are engaged lam willing to pledge my felt to the
gentleman, that it the good of the union requires that the feat of
government should be fixed at Pittsburgh, I will vote for it. But
1 must now vote for postponing the business It is not enough to
determine where the feat of government ought to be, but it is
ncceffary to prepare the public mind to agree with ouis in the
decision of questions of this magnitude. Our reasons ousjht to be
made public, and they to be the reasons of the public.
When I left my conftituentsj I did not contemplate this business
nor have I yet formed my own opinion. When I do, I pledge
myfelf that it shall not fprirtg from local or felfi t principles.
The gentleman has brought forward this lubjett as a very im
portant one. As such we will consider it. If it were to deter
mine merely the centre of matter, it might be fettled in a short
tinie—lf we are to represent the oaks and mountains—lf the acres
of the United States are to be represented, a few da) s of calcula
tion may determine it.
I am of opinion that the centre of our government should be a
centre of convenience and utility) that the heart should be so
placed as to propel the blood to the extremities, "with the mo(b
juitable and easy motion. I would place the head ot the go
vernment, where it might guard mofl etfeftua.iy the extremes,and
loteft the weak parts. It is my wiih that the territory now lub
-61 to the laws of the Union may continu so, and that the go J
vcrnment may be so situated aS to ufc its force with the best advan
tage to ensure the prcfervaiion of the Union, and obedience to its
-iWS?
The gentleman from Connecticut has rightly said that the States
f North-Carolina and Rhode-Island ftiould have a voice in this
ufinefs.
I would not impute unworthy motives to the gentleman who
ntroduced the motion ; but I would ask him whether the world
t large should not be equally convinced of their purity ; whether
n justice to himfelf, the public hnnd (hould not be better pre pa
red for the occasion. lam not convinced that our government
itill so ill cemented and so feeble, could stand the shock of such a
ineafure, and therefore I molt ardently depricate the event.
The quellion for making this bufin fs the order of the day for
Tburfday next,was carried. Adjourned. [DailV Advr.]
FRIDAY, AUGUST ?8.
Mr. FitzsimonS presented a lengthy memorial from the pub
lic creditors of the State of Pennsylvania, which was read and
laid on the table.
Mr. Trumbull presented a memorial from the ommanders of
.he Packets, which ply between New-York, and Newport and
Providence in Rhode-Island, refpefting the hardships which they
'uffer by reafori of that Slate's being considered oui of the Union.
A letter from the Governor of South Carolina, addrelTed to the
Speaker, inclosing an account of the exports of that State fronji
December, 1787, to December, 1788, was read.
The report of the committee on the memorials from the mer
chants of George-town and Alexandria, wastaken up, and accept
d, and the fame committee ordered to bring in a bill for the re
lief of the memorialists.
In committee of the whole, on the bill for establishing the fa
'aries of the officers in the executive departments, their afllftants,
and clerks.
The committee agreed upon the following salaries, viz.
To the the Secretary of theTreafury, 35©° Dollars:
of State, 3000
of the War Department, 3000
To the Comptroller, - - 2000
Auditor, - 1500
Treasurer, - - 1600
.Register, - - 1250
Governor of the Western Teritory, in-
eluding the emoluments ofSuperin-> 2500
tendant of Indian Affairs, )
Afliftantto the Secretary of theTreafury, 1500
Chief Clerk to the Department of State, 800
Chief Clerk to the Department of War, 600
Secretary of the Western Territory, 750
Principal Clerk to the Comptroller, 800
Chief Clerk to the Auditor. 600
Three Judges of the Western Territory, 800 doL each.
To the Clerks which may be employed in the several depart
ments, not to exceed 45odollars each.
The committee having gone through the bill,with amendments,
the fame were reported to the house, and accepted. It was then
ordered, that the bill be engrofledfor a third reading to-morrow.
The committee appointed for the purpose, brought in a bill to
fnfpend for a time, the operation of a clause in the collection law,
agreeably to the report on the memorials from Alexandria, and
George-town, which was read the firft time.
Mr. Clymer had leave of 9bfence for a few days—and Mr.
Stu r c es to the end of the feflion. Adjourned.
Mr. FENNO,
Certain interejling representations presented to an Hon. Afftmbly gaii
rife to the following, which please to publish. Yours, P. Q.
WHEREAS it is of confcquencc,
Congress (hould fix its refidence —
That feat of honor and renown,
Yclept long since the " Federal town
The people of this pleasant borough,
From a convi£tion just and thorough,
That there's no other situation,
Can equal this in all the nation ;
Your honors do most humbly pray,
To make it your abode for aye.
Nature provideth here so ample,
We only can feleft a sample
Of what this blefled place affords,
Enough to tempt a House of Lords f
Where'ei you turn your wond'ring eyes*
Tenthoufand pleasing profpefts rife!
The streams meandering thro the Vales,
" BLUE HILLS," whose height the (kieiaiTaiis ;
The air falubnous, sweet, and bracing,
All fogs, and noxious vapors chafing ;
And as no mortal man can think,
But what you all must eat and drink,
Our markets give, ye gods, such meat,
As ye, in your own hotels, eat :
We've beef, and and lamb, and mutton,
As fine as e'er was table put on ;
And dunghill fowls, wild ducks, and widgeons,
And lnipes,and geese, and quails, and pigeons j
Pheasants, and ortolans, be sure,
To please the daintiest epicure.
Our Schuylkill give* us fifh in pletity,
Of forts we reckon more than twenty—
Asfhad and alwives, pretty picking,
Without a bone your throat to (lick in ;
That Schuylkill, theme of future song,
Upon whose waves are borne along
Two.hundred thousand facksof wheat,
Transported in Mufketo fleet—
Mufketo fleet! yes, hen in peace,
CONGRESS may fit till time shall cease,
Nor (hips with horrid broad fides scare 'em,
Nor soldier with a gun come near 'cm.
At present we've three hundred houfes^
All ft 1 I'd with loving wives and spouses ;
But timber, fkinglesTJfonttmgrioatdr,
The neighborhood store affords ;
We'll give you (tones all vein'd with blue,
And thank you when you take them too ;
But as for bricks, you pay for making,
They cost us time and pains in baking;
We've carpenters, and masons good,
As ever woik'd in (lone or wood ;
Artists in every kind of work,
To build you houses in a jerk.
eve barbers, tailors, and (hoe makers,
Pye-womeq, hucksters, brewers, bakers ;
Taverns in -plenty too abound,
And here and there a church is found ;
Besides all these, there are « exteriors,"
We need not mention our superiors,
Both for convenience, and delight,
To crown the day, and eke the night:
i Then come good Sirs, make this your feat
Where nature's choicest bounties meet—
The public good prompts this petition,
From yours with rev'renceand fubmiflion.
THE ALPHABET*The RIGHT CQNSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
(continuation.)
IN the Roman Itory, some few of their brave
patriots and conquerors were men of finall for
tune, and of so rare a temper of spirit, that they
little cared to improve them, or enrich them
selves by their public employment. Some, in
deed, were buried at the public charge. And
perhaps this race is not quite extinct ; but the
examples are so rare, that he who shall build his
frame of government upon a presumption that
characters of this stamp will arif'e in succession,
in fuflicient numbers to preserve the honor and li
berty, and promote the prosperity of his people,
■will find himfelf iniftaken. " The time will
come," said a Roman senator, " when Hora
tii and Valerii will not be found to forego their
•" private fortunes for the fake of plebeian liber
"" ty." His prediction was fulfilled ; and a simi
lar prophecy will be accomplished in every nati
on under heaven. The instances too of this kind,
an the Roman liiitory, are all of patricians and
senators : We do not find one example of a po
pular tribune who was so in love with poverty.
Cincinnatus was a patrician, a senator of a splen
did family and no mean fortune,until his son Ciefo
■was prosecuted, and obliged to fly from his bail.
The father had too noble and sublime a spirit to
let the bail be ruined, and fold his fortune to pay
the forfeiture : When this was done, he had on
ly four or fix acres left. But who was it that
made him dictator ? Not the people, nor the tri
bunes, but the senate/- that very Handing power
againil which our author's whole book is writ
ten : By no means by a fucceflive sovereignty of
the people's representatives, which our author
all along contends for. Had the appointment of
a dictator at that time lain with the people, mod
probably a richer man would have had the pre
ference. He behaved with so much magnanimi
ty, integrity, and wisdom, that he subdued the
enemy,and quitted his authority with all willing
ness, and returned to painful private life. This
example is a good argument for a mixed govern
ment, and for a senate as an eflential part of it ;
but 110 argument for a fucceflive sovereignty in
the peoples representatives. Gracchus, Marius,
Sylla, and Crefar, whose elevation to power was
by the. people, in opposition to the senate, did
not exhibit such moderation and contentment.
Our author s other examples of Lucius Tarquin,
and Attilius Regulus, by no means prove such
disinterested and magnanimous virtue to be ordi
nary in that state, nor Lucius Paulus iEmilius.
Lucius Tarquin, or Lucius Tarquinius Collati
nus, was not only a patrician and a senator, but of
the royal family, and therefore by 110 means an
example to /how what the conduit of a general,
or other officer or magistrate, will be, who shall
be appointed by a majority of the people's fuc
cellive annual representatives. He was the hus
band of Lucretia, whole blood had expelled the
king. It was in an afl'embly of the centuries,
where the senate were all powerful, that he was
appointed consul with Brutus. Valerius was the
favorite of the plebeians. Collatiahadbeengiv
en by the king to Ancus Tarquin, because he had
110 estate; ana from thence the family were call
ed Collating. At the siege of Ardea the frolic
commenced between CtJllatinus and the othei
young Tarquinus, over wine, which ended in the
visit to their wives, which proved at firft so ho
norable to the domestic virtues of Lucretia, and
afterward so fatal to her life ; it occasioned alfa
the expulsion of kings, andinftitutionof consuls.
Brutus and Collatinus were created consuls, but
by whom By the people, it is true, but it was
in their aflemblies by centuries ; so that it was
the senate and patricians who decided the vote.
If the people in their tribes, or by their fuccef
live representatives, had made the election, Col
latinus wouldnot have been chofen,but Valerius,
■who expected it, and had moll contributed, next
to Brutus, to rhe revolution. And, by the way,
we may observe here, that an aversion to public
honors and offices by no means appears in the be
havior of the virtuous and popular Valerius.
liis desire of the office of consul was so ardent,
that his di(appointment and chagrin induced liiin,
in a fallen ill-humour, to withdraw from the fe
-—jiSieand the forum, and renounce public affairs ;
that they dreaded
his reconciliation and coalition with the exliiled
family. He soon removed this jcaloufy by ta
king the oath by which Brutus wanted to bindthe
senate againfl: kings and kingly government. All
the art of the patricians, with Brutus at their head,
was now exerted, to intoxicate the people with
fupcrftition. Sacrifices and ceremonies were in
troduced, and the consuls approaching the altar,
fworc, for themselves, their children, and all
posterity, never to recal Tarquin or his sons, or
any of liis family ; that the Romans should ne
ver more be governed by kings ; that those who
ihould attempt toreftore monarchy fhouldbe de
voted to the infernal gods, and condemned to
the molt cruel torments : And an abhorrence of
royalty became the predominant character of the
Romans, to such a degree, that they could never
bear the name of king, even when, under the em
perors they admitted much more than the thing in
an unlimitted despotism. But is the cause oi li
berty, are the rights of mankind, to Hand for
ever on no better a foundation than a blind super
stition, and a popular prejudice against a word,
a mere name ? It was really no more in this cafe :
For even Brutus liimfelf intended that the con
suls lliould have all the power of the kings ; and
it was only against a family and a name that he
declared war. If nations and peoples cannot be
brought to a more rational way of thinking, and
to judge of things, ol being intoxicated
with prejudice and fuperllition against words, it
cannot be expe<fled that truth, virtue, or liberty,
will have much chance in the establishment of
governments. The monarchical and ariltocrati
cal portions of society will for ever nnderftand
better how to operate upon the superstition, the
prejudices, paflions, fancies, and senses of the
people, than the democratical, and therefore will
for ever worm out liberty, if she has no other re
source.
An ESSAY on FREE TRADE and FINANCES.
[Continued from No. XXXII.]
ANOTHER objection against my mode of tax
ing, which in my opinion is the greatest by far that
can be fairly urged, remains yet to be consider
ed. I once almost concluded not to mention it
here, becaufeits hurtful operation is distant, we
are innoprefent danger of its effects and its evils
may be prevented or remedied in future time by
neceflary measures, without requiring our prefem
attention. But I will subjoin it, because I think
it belt to communicate every quality, effe<si and
tendency of this fubjeift, which my utinolt inves
tigation of it has been able to discover, that the
publick may take it up or- rejecSt it on the fulleft
reason that I can lay before them. The objection
is, that this tax is infenftble. and wilt produce more
money than the people are apprized of, and in future
time, when our trade and consumptions Jhall increase,
nay produce more than the public service -will require,
and of course tend to public dijppation and corruption.
For frugality in a court ever springs from neces
sity, and a rich treasury naturally makes a pro
digal administration, and too often a corrupt one.
It may be answered, that it will always be eafyto
leflen or take the tax off, whenever it fliall become
neceflary. This may be easy, but will be always
be dangerous. The imposing it at the close of
the war will prevent the fall of the goods taxed,
and keep them up partly to the war price, and of
course save the merchants who have goods by them
from very great loss, and is a good reason for
imposing it now ; but when it lhall be taken off,
it will reduce the price of the goods taxed in so
sudden a manner,as will be very hurtful to those
who have stock on hand,and may ruin very many
families. There is another, and perhaps
better way of guarding against the evils of the
objection. It will be easy to transmit to each state
an account of the annual proceeds of the tax, and
when the amount shall exceed the annua] expen
ditures, an account of the surplus, together with
an eltimate of the proportion of each Rate (accord
ing to the established quota of burdens and bene
fits)may be returned with it, and the said pro
portion of the surplus may be made f'ubje«ft to the
order of each state refpeclively ; and if they judge
that they can more fafely trust their own economy,
than that of the supreme administration, each
state may draw its quota out of the general treasu
ry into its own, and there keep it as a deposited
fund of public wealth, or dispose of it as they
please. Perhaps a fund to defray the internal
expences of each state, might be as easily raised
in this way as any other ; but I leave a further
difcuflion of the objection and its remedies to the
wisdom of future times.
But if this my mode of taxing, or any other
that may be adopted, should not be fufficient for
the public service, I could wish the deficiency
might some how be made up at home, without
recuring to the ruinous mode of supplies by pub
lic loans abroad. I think that every light in
which this fubjeiffc can be viewed, will afford an
argument against it. I have known this cogent
argument; used in favour of foreign loans,"viz.
We give but five per cent, by the loan. This
stupid argument, if it proves any thing, just proves
that 'tis every man's interest to borrow money,
for 'tis certainly profitable to buy any thing for
five pounds which will bring ten ; but the natural
fatft is, the very reverse of this, for if you bring
money into a kingdom or family,which is not the
proceeds of industry, it will naturally leflen the
industry and increase the'expences of it. It has
been often observed, that when a person gains
any sudden acquifmon of wealth by treasure thro'
captures at sea, drawing a high prize in a lottery,
or any other way not connected with industry'
he is rarely known to keep it long, but soon
•diflipates it. The sensible value of money is loft,
when the idea of it becomes difconnefled with
the labor and pain of earning it,and expences will
naturally increase when there is plenty of wealth
to support them. The effedl is the fame 011 a
nation. Is Spain a whit richer for all the mines
of South America. The industry of Holland has
proved a much more sure source ofcluriSV,, •,
We already find a dangerous excess of
mg ouc of our borrowed money ; and \La~
(efpeciaily in procuring supplies of our own)
great animation. Behdes, the
meat is not grounded on fart ; 'tis true I J "
that we pay but five per centintercft on our f
eign loans,but they coil us from fifteen to tvZ
ty per cent more to get them home, forthati.
lealt the difcoum which has been o' e ,
of o», bin, for fcver.lyen« p; „U„dlf™ '£
it ovcr .n .a ~ there is freight and insane to
be paid,which increafesthe loss. From this it an
pears that for every eighty pounds of funnfe
which we obtain inthis way,we must payatleafU
hundred pounds, even if we were to pay the win
cipal at the end of the year, and the
want of five per cent intereS: everv year after
if the payment is delayed : To all this loss, i s t ' o
be added, all the expence of negociatina the loans
abroad, brokerage on sale of the bills, & c . &c.
(To be continued.J
EIGHTH ACT OF THE LEGISLATURE OF THE UNIOX.
An ACT to provide for the Government of the Territory AVIA-W J
of the River Ohio.
WHEREAS in order that the ordinance ofthe United Staiesin
Congress alTcmblcd.for tfce government ofthe territory north-wdt
of the river Ohio may continue to have full effect, it is requifa
that certain provisions (hould be made foas to adapt the farae toth
prefent Confhrution ofthe United States;
Be it en.ifled by the Senate and House oj Refrtfenttlhu iftki t/M
States of America in Congress aJJemUed, That in all cafcs in which by
the said ordinance, any information isto he given, orcomnun.
cation made by the Governor of the said territory to the United
States in Congress aflembled, or to any of their officers, it (hil
be the duty of the said Governor to give such information md to
make such communication to the Prefidcnt of the United States■
and the Prcfident (hall nominate, and by and with the advice and
content of the Senate, (hall appoint all officers which bv the fill
ordinance were to have bee n appointed by the United States 111
Congress assembled, and all officers so appointed, (hillbe coin,
minioned by him ; and in all cases where the United States in
Congress ademblcd, might, by tbe said ordinance, revoke any
commiflion or remove from anyoffice, the Prefidcnt 11 herebyde
clari d to have the fame powers of revocation and removal.
And be it further enaded, That in cafcs of the death, rcmoval.Ttfi;.
nation, or nccefiary absence of the Governor of the said territory,
the Secretary thereof fball be, and he is hereby authorized and
required to execute all the powers, and perform all the dutiesof
rhe Governor, during the vacancy, occasioned by the removal,tf
fignation or necellarv absence of the said Governor.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLEXBERG,
Steaker of the House of Reprrfcrtititch
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-PrefdevtoftheUnitedSltUs,
and PreJident oj the Senitr.
Approved, aucust 7, 1789.
GEORGE WASHING lON, Prefidcnt if the United Suits.
NINTH ACT OF THE LEGISLATURE OF TREVXWi
An ACT providing for Ex fences which ma\ attend Nfcocfa
tions or Treaties with the IndianTk ibes, and tke afttint
mcht of Commissioner s for managing the June.
BE it enacledby the Senatea»d HouJfe of Reprefcnfatativei oflh( United
States of America in Congref affcmh/ea, That a sum notexceediog
twenty thousand dollars, arising from the duties on imports and
tonnage, shall be, and the fame is hereby appropriated to defraying
the expence of negociatmg and treating with the Indian tribes.
And be it further enabled, That earh of the commiflioners who
may be appointed for managing such negotiations and treaties,
shall be entitled to an allowance, exclusive of his expcnces at the
place of treaty, of eight dollars per day during his aftuaf service,
to be paid out of the monies so appropriated.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Houfc ojßeprefentitivd.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United State j,
and President of the Senate.
APPROVED, AUGUST ?0, 1789.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of tke United States.
THE NATIONAL MONITOR. No. XVII.
Th' eternal God who form'd all human kind,
Views the whole fpccies with an equal mind;
With him there's neither black, nor brown, nor fair,
All sprang from him and all his goodnefc stars.
LIBERTY and humanity are closely allied: Ry the former i<
meant that security oflife, property and the equal rights oj nature, which
is the result ofjufl and righteous laws : By the latter, the full tuft
ence oj that divine precept u to do to others as we would be done
unto." It is ajlonifhing to rejleff how long the mojl enlightened fift
of the world', men, who profefs to be governed by
crples oj the gcjpel, remained insensible to this natural and divine oblige
tion ; in commencing and continuing< for near a century, a fpeciesojw*'
merce repugnant to every benevolent andjufl sentiment: A traffic inm
owji ftecies. Among the innumerable advantages derived to the wo*
from the revolution oj America, nay be reckoned this, that ith&swj l
the benevolent feelings of the inhabitants oj the eajiern herttijptre, <
led them to the mojl honorary and spirited exertions, to vindicate tkeng th
and redrejs the accumulated injuries of the natives of Africa.
Great-Britain has frequently taken the lead in the mojl bnlw
enter prizes: She now appears with diflinguifhed lujlre in ajertmgt
cause of injured humanity, by making rapid progress in the great uw*
of emancipating the wrethedrace ofJ laves i the hapless vtflms ofaMrut.
Her Princes, her Nobles, her Patriots, and W ,SE . 5
unite in the God like undertaking; and there is vo doubt thai] lc a!
crown her chataHer by compleating the bufiuefs in duefeafon. .
France has caught the sacred flame: lier citizens in their kUf
he ojjembhes, speak the language of reason and rigkteoufnef.
Neckar on thisfubjeft is inspired. . . j
•Spa i n aljo has long been in the habit of meliorating the
slavery ; ana as she emerges daily into the regions oj knowledge av
finement, will naturally be led to imitate her neighbours in their en '5
ed and generous policv. . f n , f
America, by the new conjlitution } has at a limited period) J or .
Jhut the door to /his commcrce. Mean time the Jlatc< individullh * ,e F
/libiting the traffic. The bufinejs every day, in all of them,
and more reprobated; and there is the highejl reason tofuppoje, •
will become comhleatly and universally infamous. n^
Fi ~om the foregoing we are led to contemplate the improvedj a e ]}
ciety, and the increase of the befl principles among mankind. ~
May our country progress in its character, forever: virtue t a .
nifies and adorns the species ; till the full effefl of the rft
onfhall be feen y in the compleat triumph of reason and benevo
mong the great, the happy family of mankind.
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, AID J!'
Lane, near the Oftqtgo-Markcti New-York. —[3 *°'r' J