r/f/e% (ttt f cbApfdf Cs (
r\'o. XXXIV.]
THE tablet.
No. XXXIV.
« The fear of punijhment may retrain fame peo
/ from the commtjfion of atrocious crimes ; but it
•[tiding too much from that pajfton, to imagine
1 /it is alone capable of guarding youth agai/iji im
furalor imprudent aCiions."
TO determine how far it is proper to lay
prohibitions upon the condudt of chil
dren, conllitutes one of the most difficult parts
f education. Too much severity or too much in
dulgence produce refpeiftivcly a train of very se
rious consequences. It is however much more
eaiy to complain of this difficulty, than to re
move it. There are two important points ofview,
in which the fubjeift shall be considered.
In the firft place, it is requisite to distinguish
between habits that may be denominated good or
bad ; and secondly what are the most suitable
methods to prevent the one, and promote the o
ther. Having determined what acftions are im
proper, it will of course be enquired, what is
the belt way to fecureachild against the tempta
tion to commit them. Indolent or austere parents
will be apt to conclude at once, that feveie pro
hibitions are the most effectual security against
the allurements of vice and folly. Those who
are indolent wish to avoid the trouble of examin
ing the different springs of the human mind, and
therefore remain so ignorant of the true charac
ter of a rational being, that it is very doubtful
whether their children arc ever taught to love or
praiSice the moral duties. To make the matter
easy and cut short the labor of ejiquiry and in
vestigation, arbitrary regulations are adopted,
which fuggeftno other motive to shun evil acftions,
than what results from the fear of breaking
through prohibitions. Austere men being desti
tute of fine feelings, and an amiable disposition,
take delight inrigorous precepts and discipline.
Their temper is so morose and unindulging, that
they characterize as vicious and reproachful, ma
ny customs and habits, which in the view of other
people are innocent and even ufeful. It is obvi
ous to a moderate capacity that takes any pains
to reflect on the fubjedt, that such people will
generally find their children perverse and prone
to an excessive career of vice.
The great point to be accompliflied is to coun
teract and divert temptation to bad acftions, by
rendering an opposite conduct more delirable.
This can only be effected by creating motives
to a good conduct, that lliall be stronger than
what impel to a bad one. If children do not
take such pleasure in the company and approba
tion of their parents, asto make it their chief de
light to obey and gratify them, there is an end
to every reasonable hope of their being vir
tuous oramiable. By accumulating rigorous pro
hibitions children take a difgult against their pa
rents, and acquire an habitual inclination to
thwart and disregard their injunctions.
Every person ihould conclude that he is pursu
ing a wrong mode of education, if he finds that
his child does not prefer home to any other place,
anciconfider his parents as his belt friends and
soft entertaining companions. Asfoon as a youth
di£ikes the company of his father, he will feel
inclination to dilobey his commands, and op
pose his wishes. In proportion as prohibitions
are rigid and numerous will the young reprobate
lengthen his fortitude to break them, or improve
his sagacity to elude them. He arts upon the pre
'ttmption, that they are all useless and arbitrary.
A youth let loofeupon a world full of tempta-
Uons and intrigues, with a persuasion that he has
been hood-winked and cltiped in his education,has
Jiothiijg to guide his future Iteps. It is altogether
a matter ot accident whether he makes a virtu
ous man or a knave and vagabond. One cannot
pronounce with any certainty what will be the
deltiTiy of such an adventurer. If he falls into
good company before he has been seduced by
a d,i L is poflible he may form good principles and
ts. But ihould he on his firft escape from pa
rental authority, meet with profligate aflociates,
t ere ' s little hope he will preserve his morals
character. Whatever new connexions he
°ruio he will be obliged to a flume different noti
01f aiß ' manners from those under which he was
ei 'U.ated It is to be expected he will imitate the
J >oi:s of those with whom he aflociates. He will
oon imagine that his parental reproofs and coun
ts \vci e founded in error ofjudgment, and in an
te'ignorance of human life. In this however
<• ls "lilt Liken. Many of the admonitions were
oth^'fi' 1 r^em '" e ' vcs - but by being blended with
i-,, 1 - at were merely capricious and unnecefla-
- are ve j e< - rtec l and disowned.
irta", 6 ]- cct " ls capable of being thrown intofo
lights, that I shall venture once
SATURDAY, August 8,
SKETCH OF THE POLITICAL STATE OF AMERICA.
WHILE among the various objects whicli claim
the attention of government, none can be esteem
ed of more importance in their nature and con
sequences than the finances of this country ; per
haps in no other inftancehave the sanguine hopes
of individuals ledtliein into so wrong conclusions,
as to the immediate practicability of making the
proper arrangements of this comprehensive fub
jetft ; there can be no doubt, that for the revival,
eftablilhment and support of public credit, pro
vilion ought to be made as early as pollible for
the discharge of at least the interest of both the
foreign and domestic debt ; but we are on many
accounts notyet ripe for thel'e appropriations: The
doctrine of anticipating funds, is equally ruinous
to public as private measures : We have already
experienced great inconvenience and loss of cre
dit, by proinilling more than we have been found
able to perform : We ought therefore, in future,
to avoid by wiser plans of adminiltration, an e
vil of such a dangerous tendency—let time be
given to ascertain the nett product of our customs
and ability from other sources to answer the de
mands on government. —To lhun the evil just
mentioned, would be a fufficient consideration to
juftify the policy of this mode of procedure ; but
an object of still greater consequence, prior to
making our appropriations, will be to have the
fifcal department of this country more compleat
ly lyftemized and Amplified ; as in its present
deranged and confuied state, it seems almost im
poflible to have a due idea or knowledge of it.
Requisitions totally complied with—others • in
part, and others not at all —the accounts between
the States not yet adjusted, appear on the face of
the present fchedivle.—But considering the har
raffed situation of the country during the late
war—the confufion introduced by a fluctuating
currency—our youth and inexperience in the sci
ence of fifcal legislation—the weakness
federal compact, &c. &c.—a derangement of our
finances was rather to be expelled than admired
at : But as we now feel a more perfect consisten
cy in our political situation, and as the present
government poflefles most of the resources of the
country, it will be found not ofily expedient, but
indispensably neceflary to form a general liqui
dation of our domestic debt, consolidating the
whole into one great national mass—by which we
{hall avoid much future confufion in its manage
ment—prevent a division of the public interests—
promote that general equality of circumstances
among the inhabitants of the Union, which will
produce a harmony both of sentiment and exer
tion in their duty to the public.
Though in making the arrangement, perfect
justice cannot be done to each individual istate,
it is a partial facrifice, which principles of pa
triotism and a regard to the future welfare of
their country mult prompt them to make to the
general good : Their respective balances can be
placed on the ground of other loans, subject to
similar terms of payment.
Upon a proper adjustment of these great princi
ples, and having from experience obtained an ac
curate knowledge of our n.ett income ; it will be
in the power of government, by the consent of
the public creditors, to eftablilh the domestic debt
on an interest of at moll 4 per cent, which will
make a laving of 547,678 2*9oths dollars per
annum compared with the present rate of inter
est as the debt now stands, at the fame time giv
ing iatisfacftinn to the lenders, as 4per cent, punc
tually paid; is far preferable to 6 per cent, only
promiifed, and in proportion as the rate of inter
est is lowered our power for punctual payment
will be encreafed.
Whatever neceflity may arise from the nature
of our contracts, to urge a discharge of the prin
cipal of the foreign debt—l do not fee either our
ability, the expediency or policy of attempting
at present a discharge any part of the princi
pal of the domestic ; as that properly funded, on
a moderate but sure interest, will form a nation
al stock or capital, and eflentially assist a general
circulation—the progress of manufactures, and
internal labor—in promotion of which object, the
eftablilhment of a national bank under proper
regulations would be found lerviceable, into
which the money arilingfrom the public revenue
can be paid from time to time, and the officers
of the revenue be obliged to receive its notes as
cash in all payments : There is no nation better
adapted than this for such 'on eftablilhment, as its
commerce, resources and power are upon the en
creafe, which with the advanced rate of interest,
for even 4 per cent, is above the general funds
in Europe, will be to all appearance a fufiicient
inducement to foreigners, as well as natives, to
veil their property in the public funds of this
country—l feel allured, that lliould our inclina-
[Publijhed on IVednefday and Saturday ."J
tlon run parallel with our ability, we have it i ll
our power to place them on the moll respeCtable
and solid grounds. AMERICAN US.
PROGRESS OF MANUFACTURES.
IT niuft afford great pleasure to every well
wisher to his country, to fee the rapid progress
that manufactures are making among us.—While
under the lhackles of Great Britain every effort
of that fort was cramped, and their arts of Par
liament were numerous, fjr preventing every
attempt to promote them ; but no sooner.was our
Independence established, than the efforts of ge
nius prevailed, and the manufacture of Wool-
Cards,* in which upwards of eight hundred
persons, including men, women and children,
are daily employed in the town of Boston, has
arrived to such a degree of perfection, by the im
provements made in the machinery, invented by
the native genius of the country, as to rival the
Europeans in the fabrication of that article ; and
the States of America are supplied at near fifty
per tent, less than they used to pay for British
wool cards before the revolution : s That although
at prefeut the manufacturers are obliged to im
port the wire from Europe, yet under that dis
advantage they are able to make the cards, pay 1
a second freight to Europe, and under fell them
in their own markets.
Nor is the manufa<flure of Sail Cloth, lately
established in Boston, the leall esteemed for its
great utility and public benefit ; as moil of the
veflels fitted out of late, from this and the neigh
boring ports, are either partly or wholly cloath
ed from the Boston FaCtory, and the proprietors
ot the manufactory have the fatisfaCtion to find
that it is generally approved of, and has the pre
ference to European Duck. The lhort period
that has elapsed fmce the looms were firft produc
tive, affords but a single instance of a tris.l being
made of the cloth, which was pronounced by the
fifhermen, who used it upon the banks of New
foundland, to be " the best Canvass" they ever
failed with : and such is the encouragement giv
en to it, that, though they can turn out upwards
of twelve hundred yards a week, yet for the molt
part of the time, the elotli is anticipated in the
looms; as the public have the flattering prospeCt
that it will not be liable to mildew, owing to
the great care and pains taken in the fatftory to
prevent the use of any ingredient that may be
productive of it, and we have assurances from
the gentlemen interested in it, that if attention
is paid to the cultivation of flax, foastoafford
them an ample supply, they mean to extend the
manufacture so far as to turn out one hundred
pieces per week, which they are encouraged to
do from the disposition of the female part of the
community to contribute to so great a work ; and
I may,too aflert Meflis. Printers, that the establish
ment of the manufacture is much more owing
to their exertions in tine cause of industry than
to the Male part of the inhabitants.
I cannot conclude without remarking, that the
Nail Manufactory has so far succeeded as to
tally to preclude the neccffity of the importation
of that article, and instead of importing ntar
three thousand calks annually into this Common
wealth, we are able to supply our home consump
tion and export considerable quantities to other
markets—nor should I do justice to the manu
facture of Paper Hangings, not to mention the
great progress made in that art: A gentleman of
respeCtability in the town, concerned in thatbu
finefs, has declared, that if he can be allowed
one year to provide stock, he will engage after
that to make fufficient to supply the whole Uni
ted States, and as to quality, the productions
will fufficiently speak for themselves.—The silence
that has been observed refpetfling our manufac
tures has induced the writer of this to remark
upon tliofe four capital branches ; much more
might be said upon many others of less impor
tance, which will probably be taken up in some
future paper. Herald o/'Freedom.
* Within the laji eleven months there has been manvfaflured by
Richaids Sc Co. (>i,Boo pair of Wool and Cotton Cards.
Boston, July 23, 1789.
CONFINEMENT FOR CRIMES.
THE ministry of England have agreed to a
partial adoption of Dr. PvUsh's plan for changing
the punifhxnent of capital offenders to solitary im
prifonnient instead of death. In Gloucefterlhire,
where several persons have been doomed to seven
years seclusion from that society whose peace and
security their bad conduCt tended to disturb, the
horror that has feizedtliemis not to bedefcribed.
They beg with the greatest earnestness, that they
may be hanged out of their misery. Someafk to
fee their wives and children only for a moment,
but this is not allowed them ; infhort no punish
ment ever devised seems so \yell calculated to fofc
en the hearts of the hardened and insensible.FURTHER ADVICES BY THE BRITISH PACKET.
Paris, MAY 25.
IT is impoflible to paint to you the agitation of
men's minds at this most critical moment. Every
attempt is making to conciliate the three orders
of which the aflembly of the States General is
composed ; yet the public fears continue to pre
ponderate'over their hopes, and a schism, with all
its dreadful consequences, seems to be thegener
al appreheiifion. The twenty representatives of
the commons of Paris take their feats to-morrow,
so that the alfembly will proceed inltantly to
bring matters to a crisis. The commons have na
med a conciliatory commiflion of lixteen to con
fer with the other two orders ; the clergy eight,
and the nobles eight; but the election of the lat
ter, on a scrutiny, has unfortunately fallen on
the moll ariltocratical members of that body,
whole general lentiments may be deduced from
the numbers on the firit grand divilion, when the
minority, in favor of the union of the three or
ders tonlilled only of forty-feven against sBB.—
The famequeftion was carricd against the popu
lar with by a much smaller majority in the cler
gy, viz. 122 against 114. —The parochial eccleli
altics, or representatives of the rectors ofparifhes
in the National AHembly being almost to a man
inclined to the caufeof freedom, a weight, which
added to the patriotic Nobles lliould it be at length
determined to vote by numbers in a mixed ailetn
bly, would turn the scale decidedly in favor ol
the nation. Every thing, therefore, to be ex
pected from this momentous meeting hinges on
this decifion—for there seems but little, if any
room for modification. The Aftembly of the
Third Estate abounds 111 men of the greatelt a
bility and firmnels ; their information and elo
quence have already aftonilbed the persons who
have alfifted at their preliminary debate. The
following are the lixteen members named on the
conciliatory commiilion, lome of whom are no
strangers to the literary world in Europe—Mefl'rs.
Rabaud de St. Etienne, le Chapelier, Mounier,
Taget, (of the French Academy) Bailey (of the
fame) Touret, Milfier, Dupont, le Grand, Vol
nfcy, (author of the Travels in Syria and Egypt)
Rhedon, Liquier, Carat, Salomon, Bergafle, and
Barnard. 1 hefe deputies have received express
orders to enter into no matter whatever, but an
invitation to the privileged orders to unite and
verify their refpedtive powers in common,the firft
llepto their voting promifcuoudy together. And
secondly, to keep an exadt regifterof what pailes
at the conference. This conference, therefore,
will neceflarily bring on the grand question.
On VVednefday lalt, the clergy, by a consider
able majority, agreed to renounce all their pecu
niary privileges and exemptions. The nobles are
expected to adopt the fame measure ; but the vio
lence with which they are daily attacked on all
their lofty pretensions, has almost driven many
ofthem to wish to make a stand; nay, evenroyaf
ty itfelf is already said to call a longing retrofpedt
on past times, and to dread the Ihock of that mass
whose momentum is not to be withllood.
In the environs of the capital, 1 5,000 men, in
cluding 4000 horse, are hourly expected, belides
the usual garrison of the French and Swiss guards,
&c. though it is now said the order for a camp is
countermanded. The execution of the rioters
took place on Friday, without any tumult, owing
to the presence of all the military in and about
Paris.
The Dauphin's illness has taken rather a fa
vourable turn within these few days, but it seems
improbable helhould long survive.
LONDON, JUNE 6.
On the 25th of April the Emprefsof Rulfia dis
tributed the rewards to thole who distinguished
rhemfelves in the capture of Oczakow. Prince
Potemkin received the ftaff of command entwin
ed with laurel, and richly adorned with diamonds,
a letter of thanks, a medal struck in memorv of
his ikilful and intrepid behavior, and the sum of
100,000 roubles in money. To Generals, Prince
Repnin, and Mr. Suwarof, her Majesty gave, to
the former a gold sword richly set with brilliants,
and to the latter, a plume of brilliants to wear in
his hat ; to Lieut. Generals, Mr. de Nafclitfcho
kin, 700 peasants, Paul de Potemkin, a sword,
De Hecking a large estate in Livonia, and to
Prince Gallitzin, a sword ; to Generals, Baron
Pahleh joopeafants, Mr. Buchalz, Tehmers, and
Meknob, each a gold hiked sword ; to Colonels,
Rfcewlky, Ponakof, Kifelfef, Fifcher, Dezef, Mar
kof, and to Lieut. Col. Jufchkof, each a gold, hik
ed sword ; to the widow of Major Muller, of the
artillery,killed in the attack of Oczakow, an estate
in Livonia ; to Major General Mevendorf, Lieu
tenant Col. Miller, and Major Hering, of the ar
tillery, each an estate in Livonia ; to all the su
balterns, and soldiers, each a medal of lilver.
Her Majesty has belides made many promotions,
and distributed a number of ribbons of Orders.
SULTAN SELIM Illd.
This Prince, whose reign will probably form
an erain the Tulkifh annals, was born in 1761,
and is undoubtedly the most accomplished Mon
arch that ever fwajed the Ottoman sceptre.
He speaks several languages with facility and
elegance ; is well acquainted with ancient and
modern history, and remarkably attached to the
arts and sciences.
It is thought that his elevation to the throne
will produce a revolution in the manners of the
Muiielmen, and form the epocn of their civil na
tion.
1 hat numerous and ferocious people neither
want genius nor abilities : To augment their
knowledge, to remove their prejudices, and to
free their minds from the {hackles of fuperllition,
would be an attempt worthy of a patriot Sove
leign, and is said to be the design of this young
Father of the Faithful.
Letters ftoin L'Orient, Nantes, Bonrdeaux, and
other h rench ports, give an account that conlider
able quantities of American salted beef in barrels
and 1 ierces,from Bolton and other parts of North-
America, had arrived there, and though much in
terior in quality tothelrifh provision beef, had a
tolerable sale, the price being on an average from
fifteen to twenty pr. cent, less than what is usual
ly lhipped from that kingdom. Sans doutc !
[THE refpeClful address of thi Legijlature of the
Stats oj New-York to The President of the United
States, -was presented, on Tuesday laji, by the Speaker
of the Ajfembly. The indisposition of the President oj
the Senate prevented his att ending on this occasion, and
■was the cause why it was not presented footer.
To THE PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES
of AMERICA.
The refpeflf/l Address of the Senate and Atfemtly of
the State of New-York.
S I R,
WHILE our country at large bears a cheer
ful testimony to your distinguished virtues and
services, we the Senate and Aflembly of the State
of New-York, ourselves of the earliest op
portunity since your election to the Presidency
of the United States, to present you our sincere
and affectionate congratulations upon your ap
pointment to that illustrious station.
The citizens of this State, in the course of the
late destructive war, prefled with calamities and
<iangers, with grateful admiration beheld you
displaying the bright eft military talents for their
defence and fafety ; and when these were no long
er neceflary, their prayers and acclamations at
tended you retiring from the head of a victorious
army, to the enjoyments of domestic life.
After such distinguished proofs of fortitude and
admiration, no motive but the purest patriotism
could have induced you to listen to the voice of
your country, and to reafl'ume the arduous du
ties of a public station.
We are confident, Sir, of exprefling with fideli
ty the sentiments of the freemen of this State,
when we allure you of the regard they have for
your person, of the confidence they repose in your
wifdoni, and of the firm expectation they enter
tain that your administration will, by the blefling
of Almighty God, be glorious tq yourfelf, ana
happy for your country.
Permit us to add, that we shall do all in our
power to make your residence in this State agreea
ble ; and at all times be ready to afford you our
united aid and support.
In behalf of the Senate,
Pierre Van Cortlakdi, President.
In behalf of the Assembly t
Gulian Verplanck, Speaker.
Albany, July i i 789.
THE PRESIDENT was pleased to make the fol
lowing ANSWER.
To thi SeN at k ar, d As s me l v oj the State of Nctu-York.
GENTLEMEN,
THE affectionate congratulations of so res
pectable a body as the Senate and House of Re
presentatives of the State of New-York, 011 my
election to the Presidency of the United States,
fill my breast with the molt pleasing sensations.
In the fortitude and perseverance of the citi
zens of this State, even amidst the calamities and
dangers with which they were furroundedin the
late war, I found a resource, which it always
gave me pleasure to acknowledge intheftronaeft
and moll grateful terms. I may alio be permit
ted to add, the fatisfa«tion I experienced in re
tiring to the enjoyments of domestic life was
greatly enhanced by a reflection that their public
virtue had been finally crowned with complete
l'uccefs.
I am now truly happy that my motives, for re
a(fuming the arduous duties of a public station,
have met with your approbation. And at the fame
time I entreat yon will be persuaded that no
thing could be better calculated to encourage me
to hope for prosperity in the execution ofthe duties
of my office than the afl'urances you have given
of the favorable sentiments and expectations of
the freemen of your State.
I request, gentlemen, that you will accept my
belt thanks for your polite intimation that you
will do every thing in your power to make my
residence in your Stare agreeable ; as well as for
your patriotic promise of being always ready to
afford your united aid and support.
GEORGE WASHINGTON
SKETCH OF PROCEEDiNtiSOF CONCR^
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES
UNITED STATES. * °
WEDNESDAY, AUG. S , 1789.
A meflage was received from the Senate by their
Secretary, informing the Hon. House that they
had concurred with amendments, in the bills fur
establishing the War Department—and for efta"
Killing the Government of the WefternTerritor •
—These two Bills, as amended by the Senate
were then taken into consideration, anil palled to
be enacfted.
The engrofled bill for registering veflels-to
regulate the coasting trade, &c. was read a third
time, the blanks filled up, and thequeftion, Shall
this bill pass ? carried in the affirmative.
A meflage was received from The Pre/ldentof
the United States, by Mr. Secretary Lear, withthe
for the accounts between the United
States and individual States, to which The Presi
dent has affixed his approbation and signature.
A Committee was then appointed to bring ina
bill for establishing the pay of the Executive offi.
cers, and of their clerks.
The House then took up the report of the com
mittee refpetfting the Virginia feflion—this re
port being read, Mr. White offered i resolution to
the following purport, viz. That the resolution
of Congress of the 17th of August, 1788, fofaras
it might be construed to invalidate any locations
of land made by, or on account of the troops of
the Virginia line, 011 the late continental eftab
lifliment,ought to be rescinded. Laid 011 the table
In committee of the whole, on the bill for es
tablishing the conipenfations to be allowed the
Members of both Houses.
A motion was made by Mr. Goodhue, and sup
ported by Mr. Sedgwick, to strikeout Six Dollars,
and insert Five—this motion was negatived by a
large majority. Some progress was made in the
difcuflion, and the pay of the Members and Speak
er agreed to as in the bill—the former at Six
Dollars, and the latter at Twelve Dollars,pr. day.
The committee rose without going through the
Bill, and the House adjourned.
THURSDAY, AUG. 6.
Mr. White from the standing committee for ex
amining the enrollment of the laws, reported that
they had examined the a«fl for establishing Light
Houses See. the aift for establishing a departmentof
War,and the acft for establishing the government
of the Western Territory—that they were correct,
and ready for the signature of the Speaker, who
signed the fame.
Mr. White asked leave of absence for the re
mainder of the feflion—which was granted.
Mr. Cerry moved that a committee be appoint
ed to report a catalogue of books neceflary for the
use ofCongrefs—an estimate of the amount—and
the best mode of procuring them. Laid on the
table.
In committee of the whole on the bill for es
tablishing the compensation to be allowed the
Members ofCongrefs, and their officers —some a
mendments to the bill were made—the commit
tee then rose, and reported the fame, which were
agreed to, and the bill ordered to be engrofled :
It now stands as follow :
The wages of the Speaker Twelve Dollars, pr
day—the other members Six Dollars pr. day—and
two days pay for every 20 miles distance from
home.
The salary of the Chaplains was fixed at the rate
of joo dollars pr. ami. during the feflion of Con
gress.
The salary of the Secretary of the Senate, anJ
Clerk of the House, at i£oo Dollars pr. ann. and
Two Dollars pr. day, during the feflions of Con
grefs.
The firft Clerks under the Secretary and Clerk
of the Houses, at Three Dollars, pr. day, arultli e
other Clerks at Two Dollars pr. day, each, dm
ing the time they are employed.
The Serjeant at Arms Four Dollars pr. day, dm
ing the feflions.The Door-keepers 730 dollars pr. ann. and
their Assistants, Two dollars pr. day, during the
was received from the Senate, by
their Secretary, informing, that they infilled 011
their amendment to the Treasury-Bill, relpetfting
the removability of the Secretary by the Prefidenx.
All'v) that they had agreed to the resolution of
the House for appointing a committee to report
what business ought to be finifhed previous to the
adjournment, and appointed Mr. Strong, Mr. Elf
wirt'h, and Mr. Carrol, 011 their part. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, AU GUST 7.
Mr. Seney presented a memorial from John White,
continental coinmiflioner of accounts for the States
of Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Maryland, ap
pointed by the late Congrels, praying that coui
pcnfation may be allowed to him and his afliftants
for Cervices performed, for lpecial rcafons, after
the expiration of his conimillion : This memorial
with accompanying papers were read, and on mo
tion refered to a committee, cenfiltingof Mr. Se
ney,' Mr. Vining. and Mr. Heijter.
Mr. Gerry introduced a motion, that a commit
tee be appointed to prepare and report a bill for
the further encouragement of the navigation and
commerce of the United States. This motion was
adopted, and a committee, confiding of Mr. Gerry,
Mr. Trumbull, and Mr. Burke appointed.
A mediae from the President of the United
States, by the Hon. Gen. Knox, was received, res
pecting the present posture of Indian affairs, fug
ireftinc the propriety of appointing commillion
ers to and report their actual iituation.
Themeflage alio noticed the fubjecft of the mi
litia throughout the United States—refered to a
committee of the whole house upon the state of the
Union.
Another meflage was received from the Presi
dent, by Mr. Secretary Lear, with three ac r ts of
Congrels, to which the President has affixed his
approbation and signature, viz. The bill for es
tablishing Light-Houles, Deacons, Buoys, and
public Piers, the bill for establishing the govern
ment of the Western Territory, and the bill for
establishing the War Department.
The engrofled bill for allowing compensations
to the members and officers of the two Houses
was read—a motion was then made by Mr. Sedg
wick, that the fame fliould be recommitted, tliis
motion was seconded by several members, which
brought 011 a debate.—ln favor of the motion it
was observed, that If the bill Ihould become a law
in its present form, there was danger of its hav
ing an inauspicious influence upon the reputation
of the government, That tlielalariesofof the 1110 ft
refpe&able officers in some of the States, and
particularly in Maflachul'etts, where the Gover
nor receives but 8001. a year, and the Judges of
the Superior Courts but 3001. and where the pub
lic business is executed by men of the lirft abili
ties, and no difficulty exiits in procuring the most
competent talents for every department—would
lead to enquiries upon these allowances, which
it would be difficult to answer—that the compen
sations proposed to be given to some of the of
ficers of Ccngrefs, will be considered as a profufe
andthoughtlefs application of the public money,
and as greatly overating the services for which
such compensations are allowed—that in particu
lar the fiiiii of 730 dollars to the door-keeper, was
so out of proportion toother compensations as to
render the bill tnconfiftent with itfclf—that it
was contrary to the rule adopted by the House,
with refpec r t to other appointments, especially the
clerks in several departments, to some of which
it was with difficulty that the House consented to
allow 600 dollars, where talents and great ref
ponfibiliry were expec'ted.
On the other hand it was said that the bill had
received repeated discussions, that it was now in
the third stage of its progress, and if gentlemen
hadferioufly thought of making so strenuous an
oppolition. they ought to have come forward at
an earlier day—that it would but ill comport with
the principles of economy which some gentlemen
appeared to advocate, to spend any more time in
a tedious difcuflion of a bill which has so long
been before the house : That if the bill was not
10 perfectly accurate as some gentlemen wished,
yet it would be more eligible to pass it, than to
lacrifice the time of the House in going over the
S'ound again, especially as every part of it had
received the fandtion of a refpeilable majority
~That the motion was entirely our of order, and
1 the rules of the House were thus to be broken
through, it was in the power of the disappoint
' forever to impede the public business—that
to the small salaries given in particular States,
e circumltances did not apply, as gentlemen
We ( l e 111 inch instances at home, and under no ne
cc.iity of incurring any extra-expences, but that
e members of Congress cainefrom the extreme
parts of the continent, and were fuppofedtomake
! eni Porary facrifices when they took their feats
w the iloufe— that with refpeifl to the public
"pinion, however proper it may be to pjiy atten
■onto it, if the House under, that influence was
uau, toc.ecide upon such measures as the majo
'• 110u S ,r to be right, the conftittuion was but
J name,
The question for the re-coinniitment was de
termined iji the affirmative ; and the House im
mediately went into a committee of the whole.
—1 he several clauses of the bill were then dif
cuiled, and the following amendments agreed to,
viz. Instead of two days pay as an allowance for
every twenty miles diltance from the feat of go
vernment—iix dollars for every twenty-five miles,
was adopted—by which the Speaker is in this re
fpecft, put on an equality with the other members
The allowance of 730 dollars to the door-keep
ers was struck our, and 3 dollars a day, during
the session, for hinifelf, and such laborers as he
may find itneceflary to employ, was voted. The
other articles stand as agreed to yesterday :
the discussion being finifhed, the committee rose,
and the chairmanreported the amendments,which
were acceded to by the House, and the bill was
again ordered to be engroiled for a third reading
on Monday next. The house then adjourned
till tomorrow, 10 o'clock.
PHILADELPHIA, AUGUST J.
A veflel arrived here on Saturday last from the
Streights, which brings a report of the affafiliation
ofthe celebrated Paul Jones, by a Britilh officer
in the Ruffian navalfervice : Cut we can collect
no particulars of the horrid transaction. Itfeems,
however, that he acquired great applause at the
Court of Peterfburgh, in projecting and effecting
the demolition of the Turkish fleet, under the
command of the famous old Captain Pacha, the
last campaign. That brilliant action, added to
former grudges, and resentments which the un
generous Englifli officers bore towards him, pro
bably determined them,at all events, to rid thein
felves of so formidable a rival.
We are happy in informing our readers, that
in the memory of the oldest man among us, a
more plentiful year has not been known than the
present. Neither mildew nor fly has affeCled the
wheat ; the grain is heavy and full, and in large
quantities. The other grains are likewise plen
ful, and of an excellent quality. Such distin
guished favors call for the gratitude of the in
habitants of the United States, to the great Au
thor of Nature ; especially when tliefe blessings of
nature are connected in the fame year with deli
verance from anarchy, aud with the establish
ment of a wife, free and jull government.
Wednesday last, William Cole was executed
on the commons of this city, for robbing 011 the
Waflaliickon road, two country men coming to
market.—He had two accomplices in that bulinefs,
who are not yet taken, and all of them had but
a few days escaped from the jail in this city, be
ing sentenced to hard labor for Tome years as a
punishment forfundry depredations on the inha
bitants in and near this city. Cole had proved
himfelf incorigible by repeated robberies. It is
said that from his sentence to his execution, his
behavior was suitable to his deplorable situation.
boston, JUI. y 31.
Capt. Selman, of Marblchead, returning from
the banks of Newfoundland, on the firft of Ju
ly, had his vefli-1 ftruckby a whale, which foun
dered in nine minutes after—the Captain and his
crew immediately took to their boat, and after
experiencing a variety of diftrefles, and figular
inltances of providential interpolitions in their
favor, arrrived home in fafety.
The building of the Indiainan, at Braintree,
goes on with rapidity—and, it is said, will be
lanclied about the 20th OCtober. This veflel is
about 850 tons burthen—and is pronounced by
judges to be an excellent piece of workmanihip.
Information having been received at the Custom
House in Portland, Cafco Bay, that a Sloop of 30
tons had anchored at Cape Cove r Cape Elizabeth,
from the coast of Guinea, the Naval Officer im
mediately repaired thither. —On examination it
was found by the confeflion of one Hans Hanfon,
that the sloop failed from London about a year
last March, that she was commanded and chiefly
owned by one John Connor—that they proceeded
to the coast of Guinea, and purchased the cargo
of ivory, pepper, See. which they now have on
board—that a plan was concerted to kill Capt.
Connor, which was executed in December last,
and that one Jackson was appointed Captain in
his stead—the said sloop was taken pofleflion of
and carried into Portland.
august i. Of the murder of Capt. Connor, in
the sloop lately seized at Portland, we further
learn : That the persons on board at the time of
the murder, were named Haddy, Jack/on, Bird,
and Hanfon ; —That in November last, Bird and
Haddy, agreed to kill the Captain, and run-away
with the veflel,and executed their purpofe,by dis
charging two small arms upon him, down the
companion door, and a scuttle 011 the quarter
deck, while he \yas asleep; they then threw him
overboard, and Haddy took the command, and
some time after failed for the Spanifli Main,
where he intended to fell her ; but not being
able to reach the coast, he gave the command to
Jackson, told him to carry her whither he pleased,
and died not long afterwards —That Jackson de
clared his design was to carry the veflel to Boston.
—Jackson fa. s he is a native of Newton, in this
Slate, aud, as Hanfon fays, was asleep in the fore
part of the veflel when the murder was commit
ed, and knew nothifio; of it—That the account
•.O. , • C
! Hanfon gives of lumfelf, Is, that he is a native or
Norway, an apprentice to Cap. Connor, aged 19
—and that the extreme cruelty of Cap. Connor,
was the pretended reason for the murder. The
Sheriff of Cumberland has taken an inventory of
the cargo, &c. to keep in pofleiiion for the owners.
NEW YORK, AUGUST 8.
1' ROM A CORRESPONDENT.
Tliofe who contemplate the true springs and
principles of human nature, anticipate advanta
ges from the liberal compeniation that is to be al
lowed to our National Legiilators and t,he officers
who attend them. Had alefs rate of pay been af
fixed, it probably might have produced the appro
bation and applause of those persons, who are
more diftinguiihed for zeal and economy, than
for knowledge and discernment. lie must have
lliglitly observed the character of man, who has
not found out, that indolence is one of his pre
dominating qualities. Unless some powerful
ftimulusis 1 uggefted languid will be
and inefficacious his pursuits. Ambition and ava
rice are two operative springs of the human
mind. The force of the former will be rendered
weak in the breasts of our legislators by the out
cry that has been injudiciously raised against titles
of diftindiion.—We must therefore have recourse
to the former ; for we go upon the presumption,
that man can only be roused into adtive exertions
by strong incentives. The business of the United
States must not be fufFered to stand ltill; and
the public welfare will be far more endangered
by'too small, than by too liberal an allowance to
public officers.
The establishment of a National Bank ap
pears to be an objetft of very general expectation :
Such a plan would give a lpring to trade and com
merce through the States, by introducing a com
petent circulating medium—by enabling Congrefis
and thefeveral States to realize to the public cre
ditors some part at lealt of their jult demands,
and by restoring a confidencc in the national
faith—it would unlock the iron repositories of ma
ny a tlioufand rusty dollars, which have long
been confined by the wary proprietors, left they
ffiould on being released, make to themselves
wings of paper and fly away.—This plan will also
conduce to strengthen the national government,
and to remove jealousies refpedting particular
States accumulating mors, while they pay less than
their proportion of the public revenue—For the
bills of the national bank being unlimited in
their circulation through the States, superior
industry alone, will add to the aggregate amount
in any particular State.
The confidence which is already created in the
new government, bids fair to excite a rivalihip
among monied men, in the terms on which they
propose to make their loans for the immediate
exigencies of the Union—and if this is the cafe,
as it must be undoubtedly, except we suppose
that mankind are blind to their own interest—
a competition on this fubjecft may more reasona
bly be expe<sted among the several banking com
panies in the United States.
By the arrival ofaveflel at New-London from
Port-au-Prince, we learn, that a 74 gun ship, and
5 or 7 frigates were to fail in a few days for New-
York orßofton, to pais the hurricane months.
Extract oj a letter from a gentle?nan in Philadelphia,
to his friend in this city.
" I have read, with attention, the report of the
committee of the House on the fifth article of
the constitution : Should the proposed amend
ments be adopted, I have no doubt they will give
general fatisfaetion, and quiet the minds of ma
ny well disposed citizens. I observe a bill has
pafled the lower house, organizing the general
board of coinmiffioners ; that business is very im
portant, as the harmony and peace of the dif
ferent States, in a great measure, depend on a
final adjustment of their accounts. From the
loose manner the accounts have been kept in, in.
moftof the states, the business must be complicat
ed ; and it would require men of experience and
abilities to investigate these accounts. For the;
small salaries allowed by Congress, I am persuad
ed the coinmiffioners will find it difficult to pro
cure persons qualified to execute this business ;
and an ambarraffinent of this nature would certain
ly be very injurious to the public. An allowance
of 1000 dollars to the chief clerk, and adifcreti
onary power vested in the coinmiffioners to ap
point as many assistants as the business might
require, at a falarynot exceeding 600 dollars per
ann. would not, in my opinion (with fubmiffioii
to the honorable house) be deemed an extrava
gant compensation ; the public might then expecJt
to have the business well executed, as persons of
abilities, I presume, might be engaged 011 tliefe
terms."
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK.
! IVednefday Schooncr Tw6 Friends, Hathaway, Edenton,
Thursday Sloop Nelly, Thompson, Virginia, 5 days.
Sloop Betsy, Royle, Richmond, 3 days.
Schooner William, Caflfon, Monte go Bay, 22 davs.
Moop Polly, Newell, Savanna, 6 days.
Publiflied by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maidek"
La.nt, near the Ofarego-Marktt. Xev.Yoik,- r 3tr.a/t.lCONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Wednesday the Fourth
of March, One Thousand Seven Hundred and Eighty-Nine.
An ACT to regulate the collection of the DU
TIES imposed by Law on the TONNAGE of
SHIPS or VESSELS, and on GOODS, WARES,
and MERCHANDIZE, imported into the UNI
TED STATES.
BE IT ENACTED by the Senate andHoufe of Rcprefentatives oj
the United States of America in Congress ajfemblcd, That for the due
colle£tion of the duties imposed by law, on the tonnage of ihips
and veirels, and on goods, wares and merchandize imported into
the United States, there ihall beeftablilhed and appointed,diftri&s,
ports, and officers, in manner following, to wit :
TheStateofNEW-HAMPSHIRE Ihall be one diftri£,to include
the town of Portsmouth as the sole port of entry ; and the towns
ot Newcastle, Dover, and Exeter, as ports ot delivery only ; but
all ships or \ eiTels bound to or from either of the laid poits of de
livery, Ihall fifft come to, enter and clear at Portimouth ; and a na
val officer, collector, and surveyor, for the said diftritt ihall be ap
pointed, to reside at Portsmouth.
In the State of MASSACHUSETTS (hall be twenty diftritts and
ports of entry, to wit: Newburyport, Gloucester, Salem, and Be
verly, as one port ; Marblehcad, Boston, and Charleftown as one
port ; Plymouth, Barnftable, Nantucket, Edgartown, New-Bed
tord, Dighton, York, Biddetord, and Peppcrelborough as one
port ; Portland and Falmouth as one port; Bath, Wileaflet, Penob
i'cot, Frenchman's Bay, Machias, and PaiTainaquody. To the dii
tri£l of Newburyport Ihall be annexed the several towns or land
ing places of Almfbury, Salisbury, and Haverhill, which ihall be
ports of delivery only ; and a collcttor, naval officer, and surveyor,
tor the diftrift ihall be appointed, to reside at Newburyport. To
the diftri£t of Gloucester ihall be annexed the town of Manchester,
' as a port of delivery only; and a collettor and surveyor ihall be
appointed, to reside at Glouccfter. To the diftiitt of Salem and
Beverly, ihall be annexed the towns or landing places of Danvers
and Ipswich, as ports of delivery only ; and a collector, naval of
ficer and surveyor for the district ihall be appointed, to reside at
Salem ; and a surveyor to reside at each of the towns of Beverly
and Ipswich. Tothe diftfi&of Marblchead ihall be annexed the
town of Lynn, as a port of delivery only; and a colle6tor for the
diftrift ihall be appointed, to reside at Marblehead. To the dif
trift of Boston and Charleftown ihall be annexed the towns or
landing places of Medford, Cohaffet, and Hingham, as ports of
delivery only ; and a colle&or, naval officer, and surveyor, ihall
be appointed, to reside at Boston. To the diftrift of Plymouth
ihall be annexed the several towns or landing places of Scituate,
Duxbury, and Kingfton,as ports of delivery only; and acolle&or
for the diftrift ihall be appointed, to reside at Plymouth. To the
diftrittof Barnftable ihall be annexedthe several towns or landing
places of Sandwich, Harwich, Welfleet, Province-Town, and Cha
tham, as ports of delivery only ; and a colle&or for the diftri£l
ihall be appointed, to reiide at Barnftable. In the diftrift of Nan
tucket, the port of Sherburne ihall be the sole port of entry and
delivery within the fame ; and a collettor ihall be appointed to
reside at Sherbnrne. To the diftritt of Edgartown shall be an
nexed the town of Falmouth, as a port of delivery only ; and a
colle&or shall be appointed, to reside at Edgartown. To the dif
trift of New-Bedford ihall be annexed Weft-Port, Rochester, and
Wareham, as ports of delivery only ; and a colle&or for the dif
trift ihall be appointed, to reside at New-Bedford. To the dif
trittof Dighton ihall be annexed Swanfey and Freetown, as ports
of delivery only, and a colle£lor for the diftrift ihall be appointed,
to reside at Dighton. To the diftrift of York ihall be annexed
Xittery and Berwick, as ports of delivery only, and a colleflor
for the diftrift ihall be appointed, to reside at York. To the dif
tri&of Biddeford and Pepperelborough shall be annexed Scarbo
rough, Wells, Kennebunk, and Cape-Porpoise, as ports of deli
very only, and a collector for the diftrift shall be appointed, to re
side at Biddeford. To the diftrift of Portland and Falmouth ihall
be annexed North Yarmouth and Brunfwick, as ports of delivery
onlv ; and a collector and surveyor ihall be appointed for the dii
triit, to reside at Portland. To the diftrift of Bath ihall be an
nexed Halloweil, Pittftown, and Topiham, as ports of delivery
only ; and a colle&or for the diftrift ihall be appointed, to reside
at Bath. To the diflrift of WifcafTet shall be annexed Bristol,
Boothbay, and Waldoborough, as ports of delivery only ; and a
collector for the diftri£t ihall be appointed, to reside at WifcaiTet.
To the diftrift of Penobfcot ihall be annexed Thomafton, Frank
fort, Sedgwick-Point, and Deer-Ifiand, as ports of delivery only,
and a colle&or for the diftritt ihall be appointed, to reside at Pe
nobfcot. To the diftrift of Frenchman's Bay ihall be annexed
Union-River, as a port of delivery only; and a colle&or for the
diftrift ihall be appointed, to reside at Frenchman's-Bay. For
each of the diftritts of Machias and Paffamaquody ihall be appoint
ed a collector, to reside at the said ports oi Machias and Paifama
quody refpettively. The diftrift of Newburyport ihall include
all the waters ana shores from the State of New-Hampfhire,'to the
north line of Ipswich. Thediftri&of Gloucester ihall include all
the waters and ihores in the towns of Gloucester and Manchester.
The diftrift of Salem and Beverly ihall include all the waters and
ihores in the towns of Ipswich, Beverly, Salem and Danvers. The
diftriil of Marblehead ihall include all the waters and shores with
in the towns of Marblehead and Lynn. The diftntt of Boston
and Charleftown shall include all the waters and shores within the
counties of Middlesex and Suffolk. The diftrift of Plymouth
Ihall include all the waters and ihores within the county of Ply
mouthy excepting the towns of Wareham and Rochester. The
diftrift of Barnftable shall include all the shores and waters within
the county of Barnftable, excepting the town of Falmouth. The
district of Nantucket ihall include the iiland of Nantucket. The
district of Edgartown ihall include all the waters and ihores with
in thecounty of Duke's County and the town of Falmouth. The
district ot New-Bedford ihall include all the waters and ihores
within the towns of New-Bedford, Dartmouth, Weft-Port, Ro
chester, and Wareham, together with all the islands within the
county of Bristol. The district of Dighton shall include all the
waters and ihores on Taunton river, and in the town of Rehoboth ;
and the collectors of the several districts within that pan of the
State of MaiTachufetts, eastward of New-Hampihire, shall agree as
foori as may be upon a diviiional line between their respective dii
tri£ls, and transmit the fame tothe comptroller of the treasury, and
such diib io agreed upon, ihall- include all the ihores, waters,
and islands within the fame.
In the State ofCONNECTICUT shall be three districts, to wit:
New-London, New-Haven and Fairfield. The diftrift oi New-
London shall extend from the east line of the said State of Con
ne&icut to the weft line of the town of Killinfworth, and north to
the south line of the State of MaiTachufetts, and shall also include
the several towns or landing places of Norwich* Stonington, Gro
ton, Lyme, Saybrook, Haddam, Eaft-lladdam, Middletown,
Chatham, Weathersfield, Glaitenbury, Hartford, Eaft-Hartford,
and Ivillingfworth, as ports of delivery only ; New' London to be
the sole port of entry ; and a collector, and surveyor for the dis
trict shall be appointed, to reside at New-London, and a iurveyor
to reside at each of the ports of Stonington and Middletown. The
district of New-Haven ihall extend from the weft line ofthe diftxict
of New-London, wefttrly to Oufatumnick river ; to which lAall
be annexed the several towns or landing places of Guilford, Brand
ford, Milford, and Derby, as ports of delivery only ; New-Haven
to be the sole port of entry ; and a colle&or and surveyor ior the
district shall be appointed, to reside at New-Haven. sThc district
of Fairfield ihall include all the ports and places in the Uid State
of Connecticut, weft oi the district of to which ihall
be/aunexed the several towns or landing places of Ncrwalk, Strat
ford, Stamford, and Greenwich, as ports of delivery only; Fair
field to be the sole port of entry ; and a collector ior the diltrict
shall be appointed, to reside at Fairfield, and New-London, New-
Haven, and Fairfield, shall severally be ports of entry.
In the State of NEW-YORK shall be two districts, to wit :—
Sag-Harbor on NafTau or Long-Island, and thecity of New-York,
each of which shall be a port of entry ; the diltrict ot Sag-Harboi
shall include all bays, harbors, rivers, and ihorcs, within the two
points of land, which are called Oyster-Pond Point, and Montauk
Point; and a collector for the district shall be appointed, to reside
at Sag-Harbor, which shall be the only place of delivery in the
said district ; the district of the city of New-York shall include
such part of the coasts, rivers, bays and harbors of the said State,
not included in the district of Sag-Harbor, and the fevcr
al towns or landing places of New-Wmdfor, Ncwburg, Pough
keepfie, Efopus, city of Hudson, Kinderhook, and Albany, as
ports of delivery only ; and a naval officer, collector and surveyor,
tor the district, lhall be appointed, to reside at the city of New-
York ; also twd surveyors, one to reside at the city ot Albany, and
the other at the city of Hudson ; and all ships or vessels bound to,
or from any port of delivery within the last named district, shall
be obliged to come to, and enter or clcar out at the city ot New-
York.
In the state of NEW-JERSEY shall be three diftri&s, to wit :
Perth-Amboy, Burlington and Bridgetown, which shall severally
be ports of entry. The diftrift of Perth-Amboy shall compre
hend all that part of the state of New-Jersey known by the name
of East New- Jersey (that part excepted which is hereafter includ
ed in the diftrift of Burlington) together with all the waters there
of, heretofore within the jurifdi£lion of the said state, in which di
ftrift thetownsorlandingplaces of New-Brunfwick, Middletown-
Point, Elizabeth-Town and Newark shall be portsof delivery onlv;
and a colle£V>r for the ditlrift shall beappointed to reside at Pe th-
Amboy. The dilfritt of Burlington shall comprehend that part
of the said state known by the name of Weft New-Jersey, which
lies to the eastward and northward ot the county of Gioucefter,
with all the waters thereof, heretofore within the jurifdi&ion o!
the said state, including the river and inlet of Little Egg-harbour,
with the waters emptying into the fame, and the sea coast, found,
inlets and harbours thereof, from Barnegat inlet to Brigantine
inlet, in which diftri£t the landingplacesof Lamberton and Little
Egg-Harbour (hall be ports of delivery only and a collector shall
be appointed for the diftrift, to reside at Burlington, and a iurveyor
at Little Egg-harbour. The diftrift of Bridgetown shall compre
hend the counties of Gioucefter, 'Salem, Cumberland and Cape
May (that part of Gioucefter county excepted, which is included
within the diftrift of Barlington) and aP. the waters thereof hereto
fore withinthe jurifdi£tion ot the said state ; and the town of Salem,
Port Elizabeth on Maurice river and Stillwell's on Gre?t Egg
harbour, shall be ports of delivery only ; and a colle&or for the
diftrift shall be appointed, to reside at Bridge-Town.
The state of PENNSYLVANIA (hall be one diftritf, and Phi
ladelphia shall be the sole port both ot entry and delivery for the
fame ; and a naval officer, colle&or apd surveyor for the diftritt
shall be appointed to reside at the said port of Philadelphia.
1 he State ot DELAWARE shall be one district, and the borough
of Wilmington shall be the port of entry, to which shall be an
nexed New-Castle and Port Penn as ports of delivery only ; and
a collector for the district fhail be appointed to reside at the said
port of Wilmington.
In the State of MARYLAND shall be nine districts, to wit :—•
Baltimore, Chester, Oxford, Vienna, Snow Hill, Annapolis, Not
tingham, Nanjemoy, and George-Town. The district of Balti
more shall include Patapfco, Sulquehannah and Elk Rivers, and
all the waters and shores on the weft fide of Chcfapeake-Bay,from
the mouth ot Magetty river to the south fide of Elk river inclusive,
in which Havre de Grace and Elkton shall be ports of delivery on
ly ; and a naval officer, collector aud surveyor shall be appointed
for the faiddiftrict, torefide at the town of Baltimore, which fh;;ll
be the sole port of entTy. The district of Chester shall include
Chester river, and all the waters and shores on the eastern fide of
Chesapeake Bay, from the south fide of Elk river to the north fide
of the eastern bay and Wye river exclusive, in which George-Town
on Saffafras river, shall be a port of delivery only ; and a collector
for the district shall be appointed to reside at Chester, which shall
be the sole port of entry. The district of Oxford shall include
all the waters and shores on the eastern fide of Chesapeake Bay,
from the north fide of Wye river and the eastern bay, to the south
fide Choptank river inclusive, and Cambridge shall be a port of
delivery only ; and a collector for the district shall be appointed
to reside at Oxford, which shall be the sole port of entry. The
district ot Vienna shall include all the waters and shores on the
eastern fide of Chesapeake-Bay, from the south fide of Choptank
river to the south fide of Wicomico river inclusive, Salisbury
shall be a port of delivery only ; and a collector for the district
fha 11 be appointed, to reside at Vienna, which shall be the sole
port of entry. The district of Snow-Hill shall include all the
waters and shores on the sea coast, from the north line of Virgin
ia to the south line of Delaware, together with ail the waters and
shores on the eastern fide of Chesapeake Bay, from the south fide
ot Wicomico river to the south fide of Pocomoke river inclusive,
so far as the jurisdiction of the said State of Maryland extends, to
which Sinnepuxent shall be a port of delivery for Weft-India pro
duce only ; and a collector for the district shall be appointed, to
reside at Snow-Hill, which shall be the sole port of entry. The
diftrift of Annapolis shall include Magetty river, and all the wa
ters and shores from thence to Drum point, on Patuxent river,
and a collector for the district shall be appointed to reside at An
napolis, which shall be the sole port of entry and delivery for the
fame. The district of Nottingham shall include all the waters and
shores on the weft fide of Chesapeake Bay to ©rum point, on the
river Patuxent, together with the said river, and all the navigable
waters emptying into the fame, to which, Benedict, Lower-
Marlboiough, Town Creek, andSilvey's landing,fhall be annexed
as ports of delivery only; a colle&or for the dillrift lhall be ap
pointed to reside at Nottingham ; and a surveyor at Town Creek ;
and Nottingham shall be the sole port of entry. The diftrift of
Nanjemoy lhall include all the waters of Potowmack river, with
in the jurifdi&ion of the State of Maryland, from Point-look-out
to Pomonkey creek inclusive, to which Saint Mary'sfhall bi au
ncxea, as a port ot delivery only ; and a colle£lor for the diftri£l
shall appointed to reside at Nanjemoy; also a surveyor to reside
at Saint Mary's, and Nanjemoy lhall be the sole port of entry. The
diftii&of George Town shall include all the waters and ihorcs
from Pomonkey creek, on the north fide of Potowmack river, to
the head of the navigable waters of the laid river, within the
jurifdi&ion of the State of Maryland, to which Digges's landing
and CarroHhurg shall be annexed as ports of delivery only ; and
a colle&or for the diftntt lhall be appointed to reside at George-
Town, which shall be the sole port oi entry.
In the State of VIRGINIA lhall be twelve diftri6ts, to wit :
Hampton as one port; Norfolk and Portsmouth as one port ; Ber
muda-Hundred and City-Point as one port ; York-Town, Tappa
hannock, Yeocomico river, including Kinlale,Dumfries, including
Newport, Alexandria, Folly-Landing, Cherry-Stone,
and Louisville; the authority of the officers at Hampton lhall extend
over all the waters, shores, bays, harbours, and inlets, between the
south fide of the mouth of York river, along tjie weft Ihore of Che
sapeake-Bay to Hampton, and thence up James river to the weft
fide of Chickahoininy river, and a collector shall be appointed to
reside at Hampton, which shall be the sole port of entry. To the
diftrift of Norfolk and Portftnouth shall be annexed Suffolk and
Smithfield. as ports of delivery only ; and the authority of the
officers of said diftrift shall extend over allthe waters, Ihores, bays,
harbors, and inlets, comprehended within a line drawn from Cape-
Henry to the mouth of James river, and thence up James river to
Jordon's-Pont, and up Elizabeth liver to the highest tide water
thereof, and Norfolk and Portsmouth shall be the sole port of en
try; and a colle&or, naval-officer, and surveyor for the diftvidUha'l
be appointed, to refi.de at Norfolk ; also a surveyor to reside at each
of the ports of Suffolk and Sn.ah-icid. To the d.stria nf K
da-Hundred, or City, Point, (hall be annexed Richmond p"" 11 "
burg and Manchcfter, as ports of delivery only ; and a colWt""
and surveyor ftiall be appointed, to refideat Berjnuda-Hundr $
City-Point, which fliall be the sole port ot entry ■ a lf, ■, r;,
for Petei fburg to reside thereat, and a surveyor for Richmond
Manchelier to reside at Richmond, and theauthority of the offiu
of the laid diA.ift fliall extend over all the waters (hores b
harbour, and mWs, comprehended between Jordan's-Poi'm aid
the highest tide water on James and Appomattox i ivcrs 77. ,i
d.flnftof York-Town shall be airu-xed, HVII-Pointa"d Culw
land, asportsot delivery only ; and a colleflor for the
be appointed, to reside at Yoi k-Town, which (hall bethe sole do t
of entry ; also a surveyor sol the two ports of delivery to reside .
Weft-Point ; and Ihe authority of (he officer, of the bid diftrifl
fliall extend overall the water., fliores, bavs, harbors, and inlet,
comprehended between ihe point forming the south shore of the
inouihYjf Rappahannock nver, and the point form:n>- the/foath "
Ihore of the mouth of York river, and thence up the fa id 11V e r t»
Well-Point, and thcuce up Pamunkey and Mattapony rivers to
the highest navigable waters thereof. To the diftrift ofTapD'hir.
nock *'iall be annexed Urbanna, Port-Royal, Fred;rick{bur K ati'j
Falmouth, as ports of delivery only ; and a collector for the diftrift
shall be appointed, to reside at Tappahannock, which fliall he the
iole port of entry ; also a surveyor for each of the ports of Urban
na, Port Royal, and Frederickfburg, and the authority of the ofn
ceisofthe faiddiflrift (hall extend over all the waters, (hores, bays
harbors and inlets, comprehended between Smith's-Poifit/at tlie
mouth of Potowmack, and the point forming the south shore ot
the mouth of Rappahannock river, and thence up the last mention,
ed river to the highest tide water thereof. The diftrift of Yeoco
mico river, including Kinfale, shall extend from Smith's-point on
the south fide of Potowmac river to Boyd's Hole on the fame river,
including all the waters, shores, bays, rivers, creeks, harbors and
inlet 5, along the south shore of Potowmac river to Boyd's Hols
aforefaid, and Yeocomico, including Kinfale, (hall be the sole port
of entry, and a collector (hall be appointed to refid • on Yeocomi
co river; the diftrift of Dumfries, including Newport, (hall extend
from Boyd's Hole to Cockpit-Point on the south fide of Potowmac
river, and a collector shall be appointed to reside at Dumfries,
which shall bethe sole port of entry, and the authority of the of
fi :ers of this diftrift fliall exteud over all the waters, shores, bays,
harbors and inlets, comprehendedjietween Boyd's Hole and Cock-
Put Point aforefaid. For the diftrift of Alexandria fliall be ap
pointed a collector and„furveyor, to reside at Alexandria, which
fliall be the sole port of entry ; and the authority of the officers of"
the said diftrift fliall extend over all the waters, fliores, bays, har
bours and inlets, on the south fide of the river Potowmac, from the
last mentioned Cockpit-Point, to the higlitft tide water of the said
river. For the diftrift of Folly-landing fliall be appointed a col-,
lector, who fliall reside at Accomack Court-Hoijfe, and whose au
thority fliall extend over all the waters, fliores, bays,harbours and
inlets, of the county of Accomack. For the diftrift of Cherry-
Stone, shall be appointed a collector, to refide,at Cherry-Stone,
whose authority shall extend over all the waters, shores, bays, har
bors, and inlets, comprehended within Northampton county.
For the diftrift of South Quay, a collector shall be appointed, t»
reside thereat, whose authority shall extend overall the waters,
fliores, bays,hai bois, and inlets, in that part of Virginia, compre
hended within the limits of the said State. For the diftrift of
Louisville, a collector fliall be appointed to reside thereat, whose
authority fhail extend over all waters, shores and inlets,included
between the rapids and the mouth of Ohio river, on the south cast
fide thereof.
In the State of SOUTH-CAROLINA, fliall be three diftrifls,
to wit : George-Town, Charleston and Beaufort, each of which
shall be a port of entry. diftrift of George-Town (hall in- '
elude the shores, inlets and rivers from the boundary of North- ;
Carolina tothe point of Capeßoman.The diftrift of Charleston shall
include all the fliores,inlets&rivers from Cape Roman toCombabee
river inclusive ; and the diftrifl of Beaufort shall include the (hores,
inlets and rivers from Combahee river to Back river in Georgia,
comprehending also the fliores, inlets and harbours, formed by the
different bars and sea islands, lying within each diftrift refpeaive
ly ; at the port ot Charleston shall be a collector, naval-officer and
surveyor, and a collector at each of the other ports.
In the State of GEORGIA ihall be four diftri&s, to wit :
Savannah, Sunbury, Brunfwick and Saint Mary's, each of which
shall be a port of entry. The diftrift of Savannah fhail include
Savannah river, Great and Little Ogeechee rivers, with the other
harbours, creeks and rivers, formed by trie inlets ofTybee, Little
Tybee, Warsaw and Offabaw, north of the iflamj of OfTabaw.and
a naval-officer, collector and surveyor, for the faiddiflrift shall be
appointed to reside at Savannah. The diftrift oi Sunbury ihall
include the Medway, North and South Newport ani Sapelo rivers,
with the harbors, creeks and rivers, formed by the inlets ofSaipt
Catharine's, fguth of Offabaw and Sapelo ; and a collector for the
diftrift fliall be appointed, to reside at Sunbury. The diftrifl of
Brunfwick shall include the Alatamaha,Frcderica,and Turtle rivers,
with the other harbor*, creeks and rivers, formed by the inlets of
Doboy, south of Sapelo, Alatamaha, and Saint Simons, north of
the south point of J ekyl island ; Vrederica shall be a port of de
livery only ; and a collector for the said diftrift shall be appoint
ed to reside at Brunfwick; the diftrift of St. Mary's lhall include
Great Setilla, Little Setilla, Crooked river, and St. Mary's river,
with the harbors, crcfeks and rivers, formed by the inlets of
Saint Andrews and Amelia founds; and a collector for the said
dillrift shall be appointed, to reside at Saint Mary's. And in
each diftrift it shall be lawful for the collector to grant a permit
to unlade at any port or place within the diftrift, and to appoint
or put on board any ship or vessel for which a permit is granted,
one or more searchers or infpeftors, as may be neceflary for the
fccurity »of the revenue.
Avd be 71 further enafled, That every port of entry eftablifticd by
this ast, lhall be a port of delivery also; Provided always,
That no ship or vessel net wholly belonging to a citizen or citizens
of the United States, shall be admitted to unload at any poit or
place except the follpwing,to.wit: Portfmouth,in the StatebfNew-
Hampshire, Portland, Falmouth, Dighton, Salem, Gloucester,
Newbury-Port, Marblehcad, Sherburne, Boflon, Plymouth,
WifcafTet, Machias, and Penobfcot, in the S.ate of Maifachufetts,
New London or New-Haven, in the State of Connecticut ; New-
York ; Pcrth-Amboy or Burlington, in the State of New-Jeriey,
Philadelphia ; Wilmington, New-Castle and Port-Penn, in the
State of Delaware ; Baltimore, Annapolis, Vienna, Oxford,
George-Town on Potowmac, Chester-Town, Town Creek, Not
tingham, Nanjemoy, Digges's-landing, Snow-Hill and Carroll -
burgh, in the State of Maryland ; Alexandria, Kinfale, Newport,
Tappahannock, Port-Royal, Frederickfburgh, Urbanna, York-
Town, Weft-Point, Hampton, Bermuda-Hundred. City-P° ,nl »
Rocket's-landing, Norfolk or Port fin ou til in the State ol Vir
ginia ; Charleftown, or George-Town, or Beaufort in the State o
South-Carolina ; or in either of the diftrifts of Savannah, Sunbur),
Brunfwick, or Saint Mary's in the State of Georgia : nor shall an X
ship or vessel arriving from the Cape of Good Hope, or from any
place beyond the fame, be admitted to enter at any other thant c
following ports to wit : Portsmouth in the State of New-Harap~
shire ; Boston, Newbury-Port, Salem, Gloacefter, Portland, or
Falmouth, in the State of Maffaehufetts , New-London, 01 New
Haven, in the State of Connecticut ; New-York ; Perth-Am oy»
Philadelphia; Wilmington in the State of Delaware; Baltimore
town, Annapolis, or George-Town, in the State of Mary an »
Alexandria, Norfolk, or Portsmouth, in the State ol
Charleston, George-Town, or Beaufort, in the State ot ou.
Carolina ; Sunbury, or Savannah, in the Stat-- of Georgia . ROV ,
ded, Tuat nothing herein contained shall He construed to '
the maftcr or commander of any snip or vessel, from-making en y
with the collector of any port or diftrift in which such 'P.
vessel may be owned, or from whence she may have faile on.
a voyage. (To be continued.)