XXXV.]
THE tablet,
No. xxxv.
« Man's natural love of ease and idleness, and
rttitnefi t0 " ldul S e his sensual pleasures are not to
it cur'd by precept : His jlrong habits and inclina
tims "can only be subdued by pafions of greater via-
Preach and demonjlrate to a coward the un
l"l'nablenefs of his fears, and you will not make
hiJi valiant, more than you can Make him taller by
Hiding him be tenfeet high.'"
MEN who pass their lives in contempla
tion and retirement seldom acquire
fuchideas of human nature as are proper to be
carried into practice. The melancholy impres
sions that are excited by a reelule, l'edentary life
have a molt pernicious eH'etit on the government
of a family- Most people make their own feel
inn-s the itandard by which to try the actions and
opinions of others. Tliispropenfity leads to pe
culiar inconveniences, when applied by old peo
ple to the management of youth. It is to be re
acted that systems of education are formed by
such men, and imposed on the world as the wifelt
and belt.
The natural love of company and strong de
sire for society, which seem to characterize so
areat a proportion of the human race, can never
beextinguifhed. They mull and will have scope,
and whoever attempts to destroy them, is waging
waragainftreafon and nature. His plan will ine
vitably be defeated, and he will reap anguish and
disappointment by his miltake, while his children
blait his fond hopes and fair prospeCts by their
profligacy and disobedience. The passions of a
,outh cannot be eradicated ; and if by forced
rales of education they are for a while fupprefl
ed, the barriers will foouer or later be broken
down, and they will rush forth like an irrefutable
torrent that carries every thing before it. No
thing however is more practicable than to pre
vent such difalters.
When a child discovers strong marks of vivaci
ty and it is difficult to curb his propensities, his
temper should not be soured, or his spirit cramp
ed by restraints. He may be so managed that his
fportsand recreations will turn into fafe chan
nels, and not run to pernicious extremes. Does
hemanifeila lively inclination for company;
let him be indulged in his favorite wiih. The
best method to prevent his having bad aflociates,
ij to cultivate a spirit of ambition, -that shall re
gulate the choice of his companions. His humour
mould be watched, treated with delicacy and
tenderness, and in that way controuled ; but it
can never be subdued. By a fkilful appeal to his
pride and vanity, they will constitute a security
againftthefeduCtions of low and abandoned cha
racters. There is no natural preference in chil
dren for vicious company or amusements. They
are firft allured into bad practices by finding ea
sy access, and feeling little rellraint by the fami
liar manners and sportive pleasantry of merry
fervauts and wicked wags. Such society gives
relief to the young mind from the rigorous pre
cepts, and Hern gravity which too often and too
fatally characterize parental government. A ve
hement love of society is not incoinpatable with
the nicelt choice of company, if pains were sea
sonably taken to instil an aversion against worth
less or scandalous aflociates. Most children may
he prevailed upon to have their diversions and
companions designated ; but it is as much an aCt
of folly to opv)ofe their inclinations, as it is of
imprudence not to observe and regulate them.
Decency and good morals maybe rendered plea
rant aswell as ufeful and commendable. Youth
nay be taught to distinguish between actions that
are proper and improper, without thwarting their
prevailing disposition. Under reasonable indul
gence and with a little precaution they may be
guarded agaift ngrofs vices and such practices us
ire openly scandalous.
N - InTablet No. 34, lafl line fir ft paragraph,
■ f ' Jhatl be considered," read should be conlicler
e ' The author meant to f'gge/l the principles up
lr> which thefubjc[l ought to be viewed ; it was not his
"tuition to discuss those points—but merely to intimate
1 order in which they should he considered.
i KETCJi OF THE POLITICAL STATE OF AMERICA.
WHETHER viewed by the contemplative
ye ° the p' ilofopher, or scanned by the more
ive mind of the politician and legislator, the
ppincls arising to society from the progress oi
conT. e m l^C Wor l £ l> presents the most pleaflng
ii>U' e^U - enCes .' as our encouragement to eltablifh
branch 10 ? V° r the e^ucat i oll °f youth 111 every
tedf C I°' terature —no country is more obliga-
Weir f cau s e °* learning than America—to the
ln 01niei 'i mind of her citizens does flieov e
WENDESDAY, Auouijr 12, 1739.
her present important rank in the scale of nations ;
to this is she indebted for her unparalleled ad
vances to greatness and empire, and on this does
the preservation of her future liberties and all
the invaluable rights of human nature eflential
ly depend.—What more noble or engagingcon
fiderations can be urged to prove the propriety
and policy of our exertions to place on the molt
liberal and solid grounds, the education of the
present generation ?—Let schools and colleges be
every where reared, as the more pleasing substi
tutes of jails andhoufes of correction, that a pro
per bias may be given to the tender mind, and
youth trained up in the way they fliould in future
walk : There is a native ingenuity in the cfifpo
fiiion of mankind, which by early cultivation may
be brought to maturity, and society thereby re
lieved in a great degree from the evils resulting
from ignorance and obstinacy—its natural off
fpring ; and each individual, inllead of being im
pelled by the fear of punifhment,be drawn by acon
fcioufnefs of duty to aCt well his part. Constitutions
and forms of government will little avail, without
a general prevalence of religion—the cultivation
of private virtue and a refinement of the moral
sense from her local situation, poflef
fes greater advantages for ths promotion of lite
rature and the arts, than has marked many other
nations in the early of their political ex
istence—not being subjeCt to the constant inroads
of barbarians or the tyranny of superstition, nor
interrupted by the frequent din of arms ever
lioltile to the arts —here peace waves her gentle
banners, and under the pleafine; auspices of our
present happy form of government and enlight
ened adminiltrators, science shall expand her ge
nial rays and the various fountains of learning
through the continent,annually iflue their streams,
which like the periodical inundations of the Nile
shall enrich the country all around.
While the lefler schools and every literary in
stitution, however final], must be thought wor
thy the attentioji of government —I hope to fee
the eftablilhment of a federal univerfity—itis an
idea which has been heretofore suggested, and
which presages much future advantage to the
public—Such a society may in a central
situation of the Union, under the management
of able instruCtors, to whichthe lludents gradua
ting at the different state colleges may repair, to
finifli their education, by remaining two or three
years, and principally directing their ltudies to
the political interelts of their country —the great
objects of legislation and national jurisprudence.
As we have taken our station among the other
nations of the world, itis highly proper we should
form on national principles, which can be belt done
by promoting such institutions as have a tenden
cy to remove local views and habits, and beget
mutual confidence, esteem and good fellowlhip
between those who are embarked in the fame bot
tom, and mult rife or fall together. The insti
tution above alluded to, I think will be happily
calculated to answer those valuable purposes, and
have the moll beneficial effects in a political view.
In order to avoid the idea, or prevent its being
in fact: an exclusive kind of education, it ought
to be conftruifted 011 the moll economical plan,
that the expence may be no bar to those who may
wifhto participate of the inflruCiion there to be
received, to form themselves for future eminent
Cervices to their country, to which their fludics
ought more particularly to be directed. Contract
ed and envious minds will always view with pain
every exertion made to cultivate and improve the
understanding of others, so as to raise them a
bove the level of their own : But this 1 presume
will be 110 objection of weight to the eltablifh
ment of those feniitiaries of learning and science,
u here men may be well instruCted in the rights
of human nature, and ltreftgtliened in their abi
lities to ail'ert those rights, and preserve them in
violate from that tyranny and oppression under
which mankind have too often groaned in lei's
enlightened ages.
We find by a review of the history of ancient
Rome, wliofe lustre and national greatness was
once the alfonifhment of the world, the arts and
jciences, and liberty, ever flourifhed hand in
hand, while they could boast a set of wife and able
Princes who gave thein all due encouragement —
and that to check the progress of literature, and
to marr every noble exertion of the human pow
ers, formed the firft attempts of their tyrannic
rulers, to enslave thein ; and we observe liberty
and the arts to have gradually decayed, till they
finally funk into their original barbarity and Go
thicifm. It remains for America, by an early at
tention to the encouragement of every art and
science, and the cultivation of the human mind,
to the highest pitch of improvement, to fit the in
habitants of this western world for the enjoy
ment of that freedom and independence for
r Publijhed on Wednesday and Saturday
which they have so nobly fought—and which will
never be wrested from thein, while they fuck in
with t heir milk, thefirll principles of civil liber
ty, and are uniformly educated in an abhorence
of every attempt that may be formed to deprive
them of this mighty boon from heaven.
AMERICANUS.
A Jhort sketch of the HISTORY of SWEDEN.
AS Sweden occupies at present in a high de
gree the attention of the public, we shall fur
nifh our 'readers with a concise narrative of its
history, from the remotest period to the present
time.
The firlt epocha of Sweden extends from the
firlt peopling of the country, whenever that was,
to the time when King Olaus embraced the Chris
tian faith, about the yearßj3.
This was a period of little importance as nothing
certain can be said concerning it. The Swedes,
unwilling to be outdone by the Danes, have, like
them, been fond of magnifying their antiquity,
but the accounts given us byfonie of their histo
rians are obviously too fabulous to merit attention.
from this period, down to the time when the
three northern crowns were united, under Queen
Margaret of Denmark, in 1307, there are but
few circumstances that deserve our particular no
tice. Sweden was pretty much in the fame state
with Denmark, being partly involved in intestine
troubles, and partly engaged in contests with its
neighbors.
Though by the Constitution of Calmar, it was
agreed upon, that Denmark, Sweden and Nor
way, lliould be governed for the future by the
fame Princes, yet that constitution being more
favorable to the Danes than the Swedes, the latter
were perpetually endeavoring to ihake off the
yoke. Hence they were involved in perpetual
contests and disorders, and were fubje<ftedto great
calamities ; till at length the spirit of the nation
was roused, such noble efforts were made under
the auspicious conduct ofGuftavus Ericfon, about
IJ2B, that the Swedes effectually recovered their
liberties and their independence.
The most important period in the Swedish hi
story is undoubtedly the interval between the
reign ofGuftavus Ericfon and the death of Charles
XII. in tli£ year 1 718. This is a period in which
that kingdom is diftinguiihed by several striking
events at home, and by ihe figure which it made
obroad.
Guftavus Ericfon, besides restoring the free
dom of his country, aboliflied Popery, and esta
blished Lutheranil'm, ruled with great dignity,
and renderedthe crown hereditary in his family.
Guftavas Adolphus was one of the greatest he
rpes of modern'times, and has rendered his name
extremely illustrious by his mighty actions in Ger
many, in defence of the Protestant cause, againlt
the attempts of the House of Austria. The grand
enterprizes begun by Guftavus Adolphus, in fa
vor of Germanic Liberty, civil and religious,were
completed under the minority of his daughter,
Christiana, whose resignation of the sovereignty,
and whose Angular character are curious objects
ot history. Equally lingular is the character of
Charles XII, with regard to whom it is needless
to fay, that his wonderful achievements and ex
traordinary adventures have ranked him among
the most celebrated persons whom the world ever
produced.
The Swedish Kings had been fucceflively grow
ing more and more arbitrary, and Charles XII,
had become so in a higher degree than any of
his predecefiors. But till the revolution in that
kingdom in 1772, it appears that the people had
again reduced the kingly power within very nar
row limits.
This country seems to be gradually advancing
in knowledge, commerce, and the arts of life ;
and though it has not lately made the figure it
formerly did, it has been fuccefsfulin its wars ;
and though one could form no idea that the mo
dern Swedes are the,defcendants of those who un
der Guftavus Adolphus and Charles XII carried
terror in their names, through the most distant
countries, and Ihook the foundations of the
gieateft empires, yet that nation will probably
soon recover some lhare of her former character
under Guftavus 111. the reigning monarch, who,
as is evident both from his late and present con
duct, is a Prince of great ambition, and of very
conftderable abilities.
ENGLISH PARAGRAPH.
THE Americans, under the direction of
Washington, now Prelident of the States, to
gain connection between two rivers, tunnelleda
hill of more consequence than that of Sapperton
inGloucefterfhire,and at twenty timeslefs
They worked with a large horizontal borer, by
the power of steam.frORF.iGN MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES.
PARIS, MAY 26.
A strong debate is expected to-morrow 111 the
House of Commons, in cpnfequence of amotion
made this clay by a Monf. Mirabeau, which is, to
hold no more conciliatory conferences with the
other Orders, but to apply themselves directly
to such of the Members of the Clergy and Nobles
as they know are inclined in tavor of the people,
and invite them to join in the Common Aflembly,
in order to enter immediately into the bulinels
which the nation has trusted to them. Should
this step succeed, the diflentients must come in
likewise, or obtain adifl'olution of the States.
For want of more material business, amotion
•was made, and a debate ensued, for giving liberty
to the Members to come to the Aflembly in frocks,
boots, &c. unincumbered with their profeflional
dress. The Englilh Houfeof Commons was quo
ted as an example : it palled, however, in the ne
gative-.
Another motion, much more important, was
made, for the dilcontinuing of the plays given by
t'le court to the Deputies of the Aflembly, left they
ihould fall into thedillipation of the court,negledt
their morals, and estrange their thoughts from
the business of the nation. This question had
no better fate than the former.
The health of the Dauphin has given new a
larms to the Royal Family.
LONDON, APRIL 2%.
Of tlie mortality attached to the horrid traffic
of slaves, what mult be thought, when we find
it stated as the opinion of i.s advocates, corrobo
rated by their own accounts of 35 voyages men
tioned in the evidence, that the average, during
the middle pajfage only, amounts to fix per cent;
Of about 40,000 negroes therefore, who are drag
ged away from Africa in British (hips, we learn
■from their own carriers. that not less than 2400 pe
rifh durig a voyage of fix or eight months.
The disgust of his Majelty towards all public
business is said to encreafe,infomuch, that though
the intended visit to Hanover is certainly laid aside
for the present, it is expected that lie will call
the Prince of Wales to a very atftive ftiare in the
concerns of the Hate, without proposing any li
mitation repugnant to the known partiality of his
Royal Highness. If this event, which is confi
dently rumoured, takes place, we shall at last fee
an administration in harmony with the great
moving principle of government, and acceptable
to every order of the people, who are not milled
by folly, or loft in corruption.
It having been aflerted in the House of Com
mons, that there are at present mortgages on our
Weft-India islands, for money due to this coun
try to the enormous extent of seventy millions
sterling, it may be curious to observe the value
of some of the Weft India illands little more than
a century ago. In the year 1619, the Court of
France fold Gaudaloupe, Marigalante,the Saints,
and all the property of these islands, for 73,000
livres, equal to 31001. sterling, to Mr. Boifleret.
Mr. Dupacquet paid, a year afterwards, 60,000
livres for the islands of Martinico, St. Lucia,
Grenada, and the Grenadines, equal to 25501. ;
and Malto, in the year 1691, paid 40,000 crowns
for St. Kitt's, St. Martin's, Sr. Bartholomew, Santa
Cruz, and Tortola, equtil to about 51001. The
purchasers were allowed an unlimited authority,
disposing of all places civil and military, and pos
sessing the power of lifeand death overthe veflals.
They were in fad; petty sovereigns. Without enter
ing into the questions now agitated about the (lave,
trade, it maybe fairly doubted, whether, without
that trade, the islands would have been in their
present flourishing condition.
In all the inftruiftions given by the Eledorsof
every part of Franee, to their Representatives in
the States General, there appears to be the grea
teftreadinefs on the part of the people to submit
to any taxes that may be thought neceflary to re
ftorean equilibrium, as they call it, between the
public revenue, and the public expenditure.
[ A Poem sometime fines publifhsd in London,
entitled, Lewesdon Hill, •written by the Rev. W.
Crowe, of New-College, Oxford, contains the follow
ing elegant compliment to the illustrious Ceneralijjimo
of the late American army, who is ranked with the few
heroes who have proved bleffuigs to mankindand who,
by the special favor of Heaven, are allowed to panfe
and reft after a " march of glory /"]
" Nor fuc'n
!n cauftlefs war, troubling the world
By their mad quariels, and in fields of blood
Hail'd vi&ors, thence renown'd, and call'd on earth
Kings, heroes, demi-gods; but in high heaven
Thieves, ruffians, murderers; these find no repofs :
.Thee rather, Patriot conqueror ! To the
Belongs such reft ; who in the western world,
Thine own dcliver'd country forthyfelf
Haft planted an immortal grove, and there
Upon the glorious mount of liberty
Repofingj fit'ft beneath the balmy {bade."
ACROSTIC.
G REAT GOD ! Columbia boasts from THEE,
Empire, and Independency!
0 'er her fair realms thy goodness pours,
Rich blcffings in unceasing fhow'rs ;
Gives plenty, peace, and liberty ;
Earth's choicest **ifts to crown the FREE.
W here, erst wild monsters prowl'd for prey,
A nd men more savage far than they,
See Eden's smiling vallies bloom ;
H ear notes celestial cheer the gloom ; x
1 mmortal pleasures in hei train,
Now hail blest Freedom's glorious reign !
G rant, pow'r divine, that while we sing,
T he joys that from such sources fprin£,
Our patriot virtues ifiay be shown,
N or THEE forget—nor Washington.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES.
SATURDAY, AUG. 8.
THE following meflage was received from
The President yellerday, by the Hon. Gen.
Knox—viz.
Gentlemen
ok the House or P«.epresentatives,
THE buftnefswhich has hitherto been under the con
sideration if Congress has been offo much importance,
that 1 -was unwilling to draw their attention from it
to any other fubjeft. .But the disputes which exijl be
tween some of the United States and several powerful
tribes of Indians within the limits of the Union, and
the hojtilities which have in feveralinflances been com
mitted on the frontiers, seem to require the immediate
interposition of the general government.
I have therefore directed the several Jlatements and
papers, which have been submitted to me on thisJubjeft
by General Knox, to be laid before you for your infor
mation.
While the measures of government ought to be cal
culated to proteCi its citizens from all injury and vio
lence, a due regard should be extended to those Indian
Tribes, whose happiness, in the course of events, so
materially depends on the national justice and human
ity of the United States.
If it should bf the judgment of Congress, that it
would be moji expedient to terminate all differences in
the southern diflrifl, and to lay the foundation for fu
ture confidence, by an amicable treaty with the Indian
Tribes in that quarter, I think proper to fuggejl the
consideration of the expediency of'inftituting a tempor.
ary cotnmiffion for that purpose, to confifl of three per
sons, whose authority should expire with the occasion.
How far such a measure, unafpjied by pojls, would
be competent to the ejlablijhment and preservation of
peace and tranquility on the frontiers, is also a matter
which merits your serious consideration.
Along with this objetl / am induced to fuggefl ano
ther, with the national importance and necessity of
which lam deeply imprejfed I mean fame uniform
and efftllive fyjiem for the Militia of the United
States. It is unnecejfary to offer arguments in recom
mendation of a measure, on which the honour, fafety,
and well-being of our country so evidently and so es
sentially depend.
But it may not be amifsto observe, that lam parti
cularly anxious it should receive as early attention as
circumjlances "will admit ; because it is now in our pow
er to avail ourselves of the military knowledge dijj'cm
inated throughout the several States, by means of' the
many well injlrutted officers and soldiers of the late
army, a resource which is daily diminishing by deaths
and other caujes.
To fuffer this peculiar advantage to pass away un
improved, would be to negteft an opportunity which
will never again occur, unless, unfortunately, we
/hould again be involved in a long and arduous war.
CEO. WASHINGTON.
New York, Aug. 7, 1789.
Sundry papers accompanied the meflage,which,
together with the said meflage, were this day ta
ken into consideration by the committee of the
whole house on the state of the Union, when it
was resolved,
That it is the opinion of this committee, that
an act ought to pass providing for the rteceflary
expences attending any negociations or treaties
which may be held with the Indian tribes or at
tending the appointment of commiflioners for
those purposes.
Mr. Ci.ymer, Mr. Ames, and Mr. Moore,
were appointed a committee to bring in a bill for
that purpose.
R folvcd', That it is the opinion of this commit
tee, that an ad: ought to pass providing a proper
system of regulations for the Militia of the Uni
ted States.
Mr. Suhpter, Mr. Hiester, and Mr. Mat
thews, were appointed to bring in a bill for that
purpose.
These resolutions were adopted by the house.
Adjourned till Monday.
MONDAY, AUCUST 10.
A petition of John M'Pherfon, relative to some
improvements he lias made in the method f
serving buildings, &c. from the fatal efFe<sf!f
lightning, was read, and laid on the table
The engrofled bill for allowing compensation
to the members of Congrels, and the officers of
botli Houses, was read a third time— On the nrf
ti°n, Shall this bill pass > The Yeas and Nav S '
called for by Mr. Goodhue.
AFFIRMATIVE.
Mcjfrs BALDWIN, Mrlfrs MATTHEWS
BEN ON, MOORE,
P- MUHLENBERG,
BURKE, PAGE
CARROL, SCOTT,
CLYMER, SENEY
FITZSIMONS, SMITH, (M.)
gale, smith, isc)
GRIFFIN, STONE '
HARTLEY, STURGES,
H ELMER, SUMPTER
HUNTINGTON, TRUMBULL,
LAURANCE, TUCKER,
LtE . VINING.
MADISON, WADSWORTH
NEGATI VE.
Mtfrj AMES, Mellrs HATHORN,
BOUDINOT, LEONARD
CADWALLADER, I IVERMORE
ELOYD, PARTRIDGE,'
GERRY, VAN RENSELLAER
OILMAN, SEDGWICK,
GOODHUE, SYLVESTER,
GROUT, THATCHER.
dyes, 30 —NofJ, 16—-Majority 14.
The amendments infilled 011 by the Senate to
the Treasury Bill, were taken up, and a vote pass
ed for requesting a conference npon thefubjed
Mr. Madison, Mr. Fitzsimons,andMr.Bov
dinot were appointed the committee on the part
of the house.
The following MESSAGE from the President
was delivered to the House by theHon.Gen Knox.
Gentlemen
ok the House of Representatives,
IHA VE dire [led a flatetnent of the troops in Hi
service of the United States to be laid before you, fir
your information.
These troops were raised by virtue of the refolvu tf
Congress of the 20 th October, 1 786, and the yd of Oc
tober, 1787, in order toproteft the frontiers from the
depredations of the hoflile Indians, to prevent all in
trusions on the public lands ; and to facilitate th: sur
veying andfelling of the fame, for the purpofi ofrt
ducing the public debt.
As these important objefls continue to reanire it;
aid of the troops, it is necessary that the eftaUifhmtnt
thereof fhoutd, in all refpeds, be confirmed, i") tiw,
to the conjlitution of the United States.
C. WASHINGTON.
New-Tori, Aug. 11
A statement of the troops, now in service, ac
companied the meflage.
The report of the committee on the memorial
of Andrew Ellicot—and the report of the
committee 011 the memorial ot N.thaniei
Gorham, were severally read a second time.
The report of the committee on the memorial
of Mr. Ei.licot, was adopted.
A meflage was received from the Senate, in
forming that they had concurred in the vote ot
the House for a conference—and appointed Mr.
Jackson, Mr. Lee, and Mr. Stro na, a commit
tee on their part.
Mr. Clymer, from the committee appointed
for the purpose, brought in a bill for providing
for the expences of the Indian Treaties, &c-
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, AUGUST 11.
The bill providing for the expences of nego
ciations, and treating with the Indians, and the
appointment of commissioners for that purpose,
was read a second time, and refered to a commit
tee of the whole house.
Several petitions were read, and laid on theta
ble.
The house then resolved itfelf into a committee
of the whole—(Mr. Boudinot in the cliaii) to
take the above bill into consideration.
The words in the bill " thatCommiflioners not
exceeding three" it was moved should be lt" ic
out. This motion was opposed. It was conten
ed that if the appointment of Comniiffioneis | 3S
left indefinite, and they might be encreafe a
pleasure, the United States may be plunge in
great and heavy expences —That past expenenc
has shewn, that great frauds and peculations nw,
be jullly apprehended in these negotiations, a
this will leave the business open to like impo
dons—That it was unconstitutional to vote
except a previous estimate of the ' eivl^ c .l°t,r
performed, was exliibitd. It was further lai
the right of making and judging of treaties v
in the Legislature, and that the motion w ' e " r
divefl the house of a right veiled in it by thec
flitution—That the house could not J".
measure to their condiments —and that it
open a door to such encroachments, and e
Inch a precedent as might be attended wiMl
worst consequences—That the righto ■r eatieit
to judge and influence in the forming 1 r< ;'
is evident from this, " That the powei
ing provision for the expences of carrying
treaties in execution rests in the '• J en r it was said, from this, " That if ten
r o miiiiffi°ners Ihould be appointed, Hill the houle
may provide for such a number as they may think
support "f the motion-it was said—that it is
lirely improper to limit the number of the
comujiiiioners—that the conftitiition has expreif
lv veiled the power of forming treaties in the ex
/cutive—that in fact the Houle has nothing fur
ther to do in the business, than to provide the
necelfary fupplies-tliat if we are to be deterred
from adopting the motion by the tear of abules,
the fame principle may prevent the decilion of the
House upon almost any question that comes be
fore them—but there are more serious abuses to
be apprehended from negledt and delay in this
b u f m efs, than from the supposed fraudulency of
those who may be appointed commissioners.—
war will open a wider door to frauds and pecu
lations —and is not (it was asked) the Iheddingof
blood a greater evil ? Is not the lacerating our de
fencelefs citizens afi abuse of a much more alarm -
in<r consequence ? It was further observed, that
we have every reason tofuppofe, that such per
sons will be appointed, as have a character to
form or fupport —A magnanimous policy it is ex
pected, will be adopted by the new governmenj—
such a policy as will inspire a veneration and con
fidence inthe minds of the Indian tribes—and if,
agreeable to this idea,ai-efpeiitablecommiflion is
appointed in due season, much expence in future,
anil a cruel war may be prevented.—lt was said,
that the constitution has afligned to the several
puts of administration, its refpecflive powers.—
The power of forming treaties is not in the Houle ;
and if they usurp this power, they may upon the
ftme principle afliime all the powers of thecon
ftitution —If we restrain the President as
to the number of coinmiflioners, it may be necef
farv for him to exceed the limitation, and it would
in that cafe, certainly be his duty to do it—which
would render the reftrktion nugatory.
Many more ingenious observations were offer
ed on both fides of the queltion—when the vote
being taken, the motion for striking out the
words, palled in the affirmative by a large ma
jority.
A motion was then made, that the committee
ihciildrife, and report the bill—upon which
Mr. Jackson role,and said, That he conceived
it to be his indispensable duty to give the house
fomeinformation refpecfting the deplorable fixa
tion ofthe defencelefs, plundered, and wretched
Inhabitants of the State of Georgia. Whatever
Congress may do refpecfting the fending Commis
sioners to treat with the Creek Indians, except
they at the lame time are given to imderftand,
and made to believe, that if they will not tieat,
the arm of power will be extended to teach them
justice, the appointment of be
ofno avail : We have lately sent coinmiiTioners,
who were treated with contempt —and since that
time, the people have been plundered,their houl
es destroyed, and numbers of them butchered,
no age or sex has been spared. Mere paper ne
gociations they are taught to delpife : Congress
alone can strike them with awe : I o Congrels
the people look lor redress—and il they are not
succoured and relieved by the Union, they must
seek protect ion elsewhere : In full confidence or
this support and protection they were led to the
unanimous adoption of the New Conftitutiou —
And lhall their hopes and exoectations be defeat
ed ? I trust not. Their chief has his einiflaries in S.
and North-Carolina, and in Georgia—and the
determination of this Legillature will be soon
known to him. It is in vain to think of giving
security to the citizens of Georgia, or bringing
these Indians to treat, without inspiring a tull
apprelienfion that a fufficierit force will be railed
to convince them of the power of the United
States to bring them to terms. Mr. Jack/on ad
ded several other observations, and concluded by
reading a clause, which he moved fliould be
added to bill—providing for the railing a luf
ficient military force, for the protection of the ill
habitants of the State of Georgia, in cafe the
Creeks refufe to enter into a treaty.
This motion was seconded, but after some de
bate it was withdrawn.
The committee then rose, and the Chairman
reported the bill, with the amendments, to which
the house acceded, and voted that the bill be en
grolled for a third reading to morrow.
The meflage received from the President ve(-
terday, was read, and refered to a committee of
the whole house 011 the state of the Union. Mr.
Jackfoii then brought forward his clause in the
form of a resolution, which was refered to the
lame committee.
Mr. Wads worth, of the joint committee ap
pointed to consider and report when it will be
convenient for Congress to adjourn —also to re
port what business, now before Congress, must be
neceflarily attended to previous to a recess, bro't
in a report to this effect :—That it will be pro
per and convenient for Congress to adjourn on
the twelfth of September next—and that poftpon
■ng other business, till the next feliion, it will be
neceflary to attend to the following, previous to
t-ie adjournment, viz.
L *07 -1
THE BILLS
For establishing the Treafary, and Judicial de
partments.
To regulate the CoaftingTrade.
For allowing compensations to The Prefklent,
and Vice-Prefulent.
For allowing conipenfations to the members,
and officers of both Houfesof Congress.
For providing for the expences of negociations
and treating with the Indians.
Also the reports of the committees on the me
morial of Andrew Ellicot.
And on the fubjeift of Amendments.
The Bills to regulate the puniihment of crimes.
To regulate proceilesinthe Federal Courts, and
fees in the fame.
The salaries of the Judges.
The salaries of the Executive Officers.
And the bill for the fafe keeping of the acts,
records, and great seal of the United States.
This report being read, the HouCe adjourned.
NEWTORK, AUGUST 12.
FROM CORRESPONDENTS.
Tlie oppofers of honorary didintdions for our
federal rulers refer to the Condicution with the
greated propriety—for that is totally silent upon
tliefubjetd: The word President cannot be con
sidered as a Title, any more than that of Gover
nor : It is therefore evident that no titles were
ever intended to be given by the framers of the
Constitution.
I r seems to have been forgotten by some per
sons, in contemplating the pay of the Federal Le
gillators, that every citizen of the United States,
of 35 or 30years of age, is eligible to a feat in that
legislature—and that consequently the compen
sation proposed, is not the grant ot money to any
particular man, or body of men exclusively—but
is an allowance held up to the view of every Son
of Columbia, as aftimulusto excite a mod lauda
ble ambition, to qualify liimfelf to serve his coun
try as a Legislator. However benevolent and pa
triotic their motives are* who are opposed to this
compensation, it may eventually appear, that they
are not advocating the cause of an independent
Legislature, which shall be composed not only of
the a (fluent, but of characters in medium and
inferior circumstances —for genius and patriotifin
are confined to no rank or condition ot life.
Every class of citizens has its rights to support
and defend —the pay therefore of our delegates,
ought to be at such a rate, as to encourage and
enable such competent characters, let their cir
cumdances in life be ever so humble, to quit their
particular profellions for a season, as will enter
into the feelings of their constituents, more inti
mately than those in more elevated situations.
Who will probably be raoft benefited by the
independency of the Legislature, especially of
the deinocratical branch ? Surely the body of the
people at large. Whether the propoled allow
ance is extended beyond the limits neceilary to
obtain this important objedt, is hardly a matter
ot opinion: A refpeftable majority of the House
of lleprefentatives, that branch which mud be
supposed to have the tendered feelings for the
people, and which has exhibited unequivocal
proofs of its attachment to their cleared rights,
has declared that it does not.
A correspondent asks, how it came to pass that
the President of the old Congrels was diled Ex_
cellency, when there is a clause in the Confede
ration which forbids all titles of nobility ?—He
can account for it 011 no other principle than this,
that " Excellency" was not then a title of that im
port.
The idea of didindtions among the fame spe
cies ofbeings is odious —we allhadthefame oiigin,
and " dull thou art" is written upon all the chil
dren of mortality.—
Bled be the golden age, pure, and refin'd,
When one low level, level'd all mankind. /
NOTE TO CORRESPONDENTS.
Q5" " Tom Te l lt ruth's humorous letter is received —but
we must be.excused from publifhirig it—the fubjea it alludes to
(compensations) has already excited apprehensions, and some de.
gree of uneasiness : Personalities we are determined to avoid—
and as Congress appear as tenacious of the rights of the people,
as they are solicitous to support the independence of the Federal
Legillature, there can be no doubt that their decisions will even
tually fatisfy their condiments.
OF TITLES, PRO AND CON.
A late writer in the Maflachufetts Centinel 6b-
Jerves, as follow, viz. As for the article about
" titles of nobility," it is too absurd to merit a
minute's attention. The fume article was in the
Confederation ; but was never even supposed to
assetS: titles given to Constitutional officers, he
fides, the title of " His Majefiy" would not bo a
" title of nobility,"but a tide of sovereignty—A
title which the person whareprefcntsthe " MA
JESTY OF THE PEOPLE" of the United States,
well defcrves—and which he'will ere long receive.
The Supreme Executive will then be considered
in Europe, as on a par with their Sovereigns—
and that efficiency be found in the head of our
Empire, which the voice of the whole continent
has been so long and so loudly calling for.
THE PROGRESS.
Honorary Titles lead to permanent dijlinftions and
hereditary eft ablijhments, these to mor.ftrous taxes,
and both to the ruin of liberty : For nothing is
more certain, than that the pay must be railed in
proportion to the imaginary consequence of the
officers, to which it is appropriated. If we mean
to be free let us begin early, and not fufFer any
innovations, which like the ignis fatuus of the e
venine, may lead we know not where.
6 ' [Bojton Gazette.]
Ext raft of a letter from Bristol, May 22.
" A bill is brought into Parliament to regulate
the corn and flour import and export trade, and
which is expected to pass into a law, and by it great
difficulties are expecfted to attend the importation
of these articles, of which I deem it right to ad
vise you, left by the account I gave, you should
be induced to export, and be alofer."
ItJhould have been noticed before, in this piper, that in balloting for
their refpeflive claps in the Senate,, Mr. King drew the class jor fix
years, and Mr. Schuyler that for two years.
PORTSMOUTH, AUGUST I.
Ext raft of a letter from a gentleman at Halifax, for
merly a citizen of this Jlate, to his friend in this
town.
" I have read, with Angular pleasure, the de
bates of the NewCongrefs, and in particular those
011 the question, " whether the Secretary of
Foreign Affairs ihall be removed by the President
and inuft condidly confefs that the speeches and
debates thereon, are not to be equalled in any
public aflembly on earth, every exptefiion breathes
sentiments of liberty from the foul ?—How happy
mult your situation be, under a government for
med by tried patriots, culled from among mil
lions ? A government administered by men, who,
ifwe may "judge from atTtion and speech, express
themselves as "if it were upon their eternal hap
piness ; ruled by a Prelident, whose conduct calls
for a coinparifon from a higher power than earth :
To the citizens of the United States the name of
Washington founds in their ears like the name
of a friend.^—How happy Ihould I be to live un
der such a government —and how pleasing would
it be to my friend, ii he could fay that I, instead
of flying my country in the hour of difficulty,
now lye numbered with those heroes, who fell to
eltablilh liberty for their polterity ! Heroes who
sleep on earth to live in glory. But the wilh ot
your friend is, that the proceedings of the sons
of America, ma; be a pattern and precedent to
the world, and that Ihe may soar unrivalled in the
liemifphere of glory."
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK.
Saturday. Schooner Nancy, Sillock, Bay of Honduras, 32 days.
Sunday, Schooncr Maria, , St. Croix, lsdays.
Monday, Schooncr Neptune, Jones, Curracoa, 15 days.
Sloop Phoenix, Robinson, Cjpe Francois, todays.
Sloop , Wining, Cape Francois, 16 days.
Sloop Bctfey and Polly, Cook, Sunfbury, Georgia.
Tucfidy, Schooner Bctfey, Bean, Charleston, 6 days.
Sloop Rover, Jackson, Amsterdam, 77 days.
Sloop Nancy, Price, Philadelphia, 7 days.
PRICE CURRENT. NEW-YORK.
Jamaica Spirits, *• - - 5f 2 -
Antigua Rum, - 4J9- "4/»•-
St. Croix, do. - 476.
Country, do. - - syio.
Molafles, - - - */*■ a *f°-
Brandy, - - - 5/6- " 5 /g.
Geneva, - - ~ 5J3'
Do. in cases, - 2 9J-
Muscovado Sugar, - - 56/ a 7y-
Loaf, do. - y3-
Lump, do. - - v 1 h.~
Pepper, - - - - 2 / 10 -
Pimento, - */9* a 9 f-
Chocolate, - - ~ v -
Cocoa, - 7 bj- a 80/
Coffee, - - i/8- * V -
Indigo, (Carolina) - - 4/ a 6/
Rice, - - - 23/. a 24/
Supeifine Flour, - 4bf-
Common do. - - 4°f
Rye do. - 2 4f- a 25/
Indian Meal, -
Rye, - - 4/3- P r • hu J*-
Corn, (Southern) - 3/9- a 4/
Do. (Northern,) - 4/3- a 4/6.
Beef, fir ft quality, - - 4?/* a s°.f'
Second quality, - - 43/6.
Pork, firft quality, - - 81/6.
Second quality, - - 76/6.
Hams, - - id. a 7 ds.
Carolina Tobacco, - a s^-
Virginia • ■■■ > - - 4d. a 5d-CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Wednesday the Fourth
ot A.j/ch, One Ttioufand Stven Hundred and Eighty-Nine.
An s?CT to regulate the collection of the DU
TIES imposed by Law 011 the TONNAGE of
SHIPS or VESSELS, and on GOODS, WARES,
and MERCHANDIZE, imported into the UNI
TED STATES.
(continued.)
And it it further enaded, That the matter or commander of every
hip or vessel bound to a port ot delivery only, in any of the fol
lowing didriftj to wit : Portland and Falmouth,Bath, Newbury.
dSftl;ft? e w f°!l n i"» ept r the P ° rt ot Ston iiigton 'he fa id
diftrift) Norfolk and Portsmouth, Bcimuda-Hundred and City-
Point York-jownor (except the port of Urbanna
j,An t l u"s come to at the P ort of entry of fucli
frft fh W h,sftl: P or veirel . and there make entry, deliver a mani
*''° f her " r <s?» and P a V' or fccurc lo be P=id,all legal duties,tonnage,
Ia! n gCS 'j nm ? nn " by ' hls ast P rovld «l,before fuchihip
01 vessel shall proceed to her port of delivery ; and that any (hip or
like Lft° U A u P °u rt of n dchver y any other diftrift not under
K °" S b y th ' S ast ' or to eUhcr of the r or " of Stonington
or Urbanna, may firlt proceed to her port of delivery, and'then
rna j C j^ g entry within the time by this ast limited.
'fJ, UT '\ tT That the mafler orcommander of every
hipor veflLi,if bound to thediftriftof Nottingham,(hall,btfore he
j 3 b r >' thc P°rt of Town-Creek, and immediately afterhis arrival
PO'lt Y the surveyor ot the said port, a true mamfeft of the
cargo on board fucn (hip or vessel ; if bound to anydiftrift on the
Potowmack, shall, before he pal's by the rivers Saint Mary's and
i eocomico, and immediately after his arrival, depoiit with the
surveyor at Saint Mary's, or the collector at Yeoconuco, as may be
mod convenient, a true mamfeft of the cargo on board such (hip or
vessel, including a declaration of the port at which the fame is to
be entered j if bound to the diftrift ot Tappahannock, (hall, before
he pass by the port of Urbanna, and immediatly after his arrival
deposit with the surveyor for that po.t, a like manifeft ; and il
bound to the diftrift of Bermuda-hundred or City-Poirft, shall
before he pass by Elizabeth river, and immediately after his
arrival, deposit with the collector of the port of Norfolk and
Portimouth, or with the collector for the port of Hampton, a like
manitett ; and the (aid surveyors and collectors refpeftively, (hall
after regiitering the manifefts, transmit the fame duly ceinfied to
have been so deposited, to the officer with whom the entries are to
?ji' w ' tho , ut whlch certificate uo fuchentry shall be received.
And oe it further enaded, That the duties of the refpeftive officers
to be appointed by virtue of this ast, (hall be as follows : At fucli
ofthe ports to which there shall be appointed a collector, naval
officer and surveyor, it shall be the duty of the collector to reccive
all reports, manifefts and documents made or exhibited to him by
the mailer or commander of any (hip or vcILl, conformable to
the regulationsprefenbedby thisaft, to makedue entry and recoid
in books to be kept for that purpose, all such manifefts and the
packages, marks and numbers contained therein j to receive the
entry of all ships and velTels, and of all the goods, wares and
merchandize imported in such (hips Or vessels, together with the
original invoices thereof ; to estimate the duties payable thereon
and toendorfe the fame on each entry ; to receive ail monies paid
for duties, and to take all bonds for securing the payment of duties
to giant all permits for all unlading and delivery of goods to
eniploy proper pelfons as weighers, gangers, measurers and in
lpecfors at the several ports within his diftrift, together with fucli
persons as (hall be neccffary to serve in the boats which may be
provided for securing the collection of the revenue, to provide at
the public expellee, and with the approbation of the principal of
licer of the treasury department, store houses for the fate keeping
0 goods, together with such scales, weights and measures as thai!
e deemed rieceffary, and to perform all other duties which shall
be al.igned to him by hw. Jt (hall be the duty of the naval-offi
cer to receive copies of all manifefts, to estimate and record the du
ties on each entry made with the collector, and to correct any er
ror made therein, before a permit to unlade or deliver (hall be
granted ; to countersign all permits and clearances granted by the
olleftor It (hall b? the duty of the surveyor to superintend and
irett all infpeftors, weighers, measurers, and gaugers, within his
a.itrict, and the employment of the boats which may be provided
Jor securing the collection of the revenue ; to go on board ffiipsor
vcikls arriving within his diftrift, or to put on board one or more
n! liu r'° afcerUm > by an hydrometer, what distilled (pints
hal( be of Jamaica proof, rating all distilled fpmts which (hall
be ot the proof of twenty-four degrees as of Jamaica proof, and to
examine whether the goods imported are conformable to the en
tries thereof; and the said surveyors (hall in all cases be fubicft to
the corUroul of the collector and naval-officer.
And he it further trailed, That every collector appointed in virtue
ot this ast, in cafe of hisneceffary absence, sickness, or inability to
execute the duties of his office,may appoint a deputy, duly authori
zed under his hand and seal, to execute and perform on his behalf,
j,i T' arthe powers, functions and duties of collector ot
tne didricl to which he the said principal is attached, who (hall be
anlwerable foi thenegleftof duty, or other mal-conduft of his said
deputy in the execution of the office.
And be it further enaaed, That in cafe of the disability or death
°A n. y M°] le^or ' the duties and authorities veiled in him by this
att (hall devolve on his deputy, if any such hath been appointed,
k°n c °, fe , COr ; dua the eftatc of such disabled or deceased collector
Ihall be liable) and the said deputy shall exercise the authority and
periorm all the duties, until a fuccellor (hall be appointed. But
"J caf " "bf"; no deputy is appointed, die authorities and duties
oh[he dilabled or deceased collector, (hall devolve upon the naval
officer of the fame diftrift, until a successor duly authorised and
1 worn, (hall enter upon the execution of the duties ofthe said office.
Andle U further evaded, That at such of the ports eftabliffied by
thisaft, to which a collector and surveyor only are alligncd, the
laid collector (hall execute all the duties herein required to be
■lone by the collector and naval officer ?t other ports. That at
such ports to which a collector only isafligned, such collector shall
pollels all the powers, and execute as far as may be, all the duties
prelcrioed to a collector, naval-officer, and surveyor, at the ports
where such officers are established ; that at such ports of delivery
only, to which a surveyor is assigned, it (hall be his duty to receive
and reeord the copies of all manifefts transmitted to him by the
collector; to enter and record all permits granted by such collec
tor, difhnguiflung the gauge, weight, measure and quality of the
goods fpecified therein ; to take care that no goods be unladen or
delivered from any (hip or vessel without such permit ; and to
perform all other duties required to be done by a surveyor : That
at such ports of delivery only, to which no surveyor is affined,
it (hall be the duty ofthe collector of the diftrift to attend the un
lading and delivery of goods, or in cases of necessity, to employ a
proper pcrfon or persons for that purpose, who shall possess the
power, entitled to the like compensation allowed to inspec
tors during the time they are employed. Every collector, naval
ofheer, and surveyor, shall attend in pcrfon at the port or diftrift
for which he is appointed, and before he enters on the execution
of his office, (hall take an oath or affirmation in the form follow
ing, to wit : " I——, do solemnly fwrar, or affirm (as the cafe
may be) that I -will truly and faithfully cxccute and perform
all the duties of a of the port or diftrift of
" according to law, and the heft of my skill and ability." The
said oath or affirmation (hall be administered by any justice of the
peace, and a certificate thereof, nnder the hand and seal of such
jufiire, transmitted within three "months thereafter to the comp
troller of the tieafury : Any collector, naval-officer or surveyor,
failing herein, (hall forfeit and pay twohundicd dollars, recover
uble'with cofis in any court having cognizance thereof, to the use
ot the informer. And no weigher, gauger, measurer ox infpeftor
lhall execute the duties of his office, until he lhall have taken the
above oath or affirmation.
And be it Jurther enabled, That the collectors, naval-officers and
surveyors to be appointed by virtue of this ast, ffiall refp;ftively
keep fair and true accounts of all their tranlaftions relative to their
duty as officers of the cultoms, in such manner and form ts may
be direftedbythe proper department, or officer appointed by law
to superintend the revenue of the United Slates; and lhall at all
times submit their books, papers and accounts, to the inlpeciion
of such persons as may be appointed for that purpose : And the
collectors of the different ports lhall at all times pay to the order
of the officer who lhall be authorised to direst the fame, the whole
of ihe monies which they may rcfpeftively receive by virtue of this
ast (such monies as they are otherwise by this ast directed to pay,
only excepted) and lhall also.once in every three months,or oftene'r
if thry (hall be required, transmit their accounts for fettleinent to
the department or officer before mentioned.
And b: itfurther enafled, That every malter or other person hav
ing or taking the charge or command of any Ihip or vetfel, bound
to any port of the United States, from any foreign port or place,
(hall deliver upon demand, to any officer or other pci son lawfully
authorised, who ffiall firft come on board his ffiip or velfel, two
manifefts, signed by the said master or pcrfou having command,
and (pecifying in words (and not iii figures) a true account of the
loading which such (hip or vessel had 011 board at the port from
which (he last lailed, and at the time of her failing, or at any time
since, the packages, maiks, and numbers, and noting thereon to
what poit in the United States such (hip or velfel is bound, and
the name or names of the person 01 persons to whom the goods
are consigned, or in cases where the goods are (hipped to order,
the names of the (hippers, noting the goods consigned to their or
der. One of which manifefts, filch officer, or other person ffiall
sign, and return to the master or other person having the charge
of luch (hip or vessel, certifying thereon as nearly as may be, the
time when the fame was produced, and that a like manifeft was
delivered to him ; and (hall tranlmit the other manifeft to the col
lector of the diftrift to which such (hip or velfel is bound.
And be it farther enafled, That the master or other person, haying
the charge or command of any (hip or vessel ((hips and vessels of
war excepted) coming into, or arriving in any of the ports or dif
tntlsof the United States, or in any of the creeks or harbours there
of, lhall within forty-eight hours after such arrival, repair to the
office of the collector of the diftrift where such vessel ffiall so ar
rive, and ffiall report to the said collector, the place from whence
he alt (ailed, with the name and burthen of his (hip or vessel, and
lhall deliver to such collector two manifefts, agreeably to the di
rections of this ast, unless he ffiall before have delivered one mani
teltto some officer, or other person lawfully authotifed in manner
as herein before is required ; in which cafe, he (hall deliver the
manifeft certified as aforefaid, together with such documents as
are usually furniffiedin the port from whence they came, and
man take and fubfenbe an oath or affirmation, before the collec
tor or other proper officer, which oath or affirmation, he or they
areauthonfed and required to administer.and lhall be in the words
so! owing, to wit : "I, , do solemnly (wear or affirm (as
the cafe may be) that this is, to the best of my knowledge and
.< I 7 a Jutland true manifeft of all the goods, wares, and iner
« 1 »"r , Z j°" b '"' d thc •st the P°" from which (he
lan lailed, at the time of her failing, or at any time since, and
ot which vessel lam at present master." And if the master or
other person having charge or command of any such (hip or vessel,
lhall rtlufe or neglect to make entry, or deliver his manifefts and
documents, pui fuant to the directions of thi* ast, or to take the
oath or affirmation herein prescribed, he lhall forfeit and pay five
hundred dollars for each relufal or neglect.
And be,t further enabled, That no goods, wares or merchandize
lhall be unladen or delivered, from any ffiip or vessel, but in
open day, or withouta peimitfrom the colleftorfor that purpofe
and if the master or commander of any ffiip or vessel ffiall fuffer or
permit thc fame, such master and commander, and every other per
son who fhallbe aiding or aflifting in landing, removing, houfin*
or otherwise fecunng the fame, (hall forfeitand pay the f„m of
four hundred dollars for every offence ; ffiall moreover be difablcd
trom holding any office of truft'or profit under the United States
for a term not exceeding seven years ; and it lhall be th, duty of the
collector of the diftrift, to advertise the names of all such persons
in the public gazette of the Hate in which he resides, within twenty
days after each refpeftive conviction. And all goods, wares and
merchandize so landed or discharged, ffiall become forfeited, and
may be seized by any officer of the customs ; and where the value
thereof ffiall amount to four hundred dollars, the vessel tackle
apparel and furniture, lhall be fubjeft to like forfeiture and seizure •
Provided always, That if any (hip or vessel compelled by
□ lftrefs ot weather, or other fufficient cause, ffiall put into any
port or place of the United States, other than that to which ihe
was actually deftmed, the master or other person having command,
del ° y ' e,g ' hours next after his arrival, make report
and deliver a true manifeft of his cargo to the collector of the port
nrntpft" » and mo/eover (hall within twenty-four hours, make
P ' he ufl,al lor " 1 before a notary public or justice of the
peace, ot the cause and circumstances of such diftrefc ; and if it
ffiall appear to the coneftor, that there is aneceffity for unlading
such (hip or vessel he ffiall grant perm,ffion, and appoint a proper
officer to attend the unloading thereof; and all goods, wares and
ffibLftmth'ff "k k C uoder thc direction, and
ffib eft to the of such collector ; but if any part thereof
ffiall be of a periffiable nature, or it may be necessary to make sale
of any part thereof to defray the expcnces of such vessel or cargo,
the said collector ffiall grant a licence tothe master, commander o^
owner, to dispose of so much thereof as are perifliable, or (hall be
neceffaiy to defray such expences : Provided, That the duties
thereon befirft paid or fecurcd : and provided also, That such
necessity be made appear by the wardens of the port, or other
persons, legally authorised to certify the fame, and where there are
neiphborhnod"b afr,d avit of two reputable citizens of the
neighboihood, best acquainted with matters of that kind
And be U further enaßed That every peifon having goods, wares
or merchandize, many (hip or vessel, which lhall arriveat any port
of entry, or of delivery only, ffiall make entry with the collector
of the port or diftnft where the fame lhall arrive, of all such goods
th/S 'I 'P ec| fy in g the number of packages, and
he marks, numbers and contents ot each (or if in bulk, the quanti
y and quality) together with an account of the nett prime cost
thereof; and ffiall moreover produce to the collector, the ordinal
~T°: '"voices, together with the bills of loading: And the
thfm v' f I"''" endorfetheduties on the said entry
the party making such entry taking an oath or affirmation thaMr
contains the whole of the goods, wares and merchandize import
ed b) him, or to him consigned in such (hip or vessel, which ffiall
o the heft C °fT- knowledge and ,hat the said invoice contains
to the beli of his knowledge and belief, the nett nri »u r
and that it he ffiall aftcrwardsdifcoverany other, or greater ouantitv
he n e' S f COn A t: Tt '? j Ch cntr V' hewill ma ke due report and entry
the peace. by him
And? t T '/, adm '"^ ft . ered and endorfedhy the collector
And be it father enafled, That all fuchentries so authenticated bv
■oartv r, K { f ° gether ' Wlth 3 C °Py ° f ,he made out by th c
annJ' 6 3ny P ermlt 1S granted for the landing of anv
she therein contained, be examined by
the naval-officer (where such officer is eftabliffied) who ffiall conn
terfign the tbe fame, and reuming one, ffiall return the other ccr
tified to the party, together with the bills of ladinc jt.H
invoices ; and on luch certified entries bein» reiuinrrf , ° ,Ce *
lector, and the duties thereon paid or secured to be p u co 1"
grant a permit tor the unlading and landing the rood. """
merchandize therein' mentioned. And at such pom f a,,d
naval-officer is appointed, the colleaor ihall »ram l.fc, „ lch °*>
the unlading and landing of all such S ood 4 a° lhall h, ? ermiuf 'r
and the duties thereof paid or secured * ent «td,
And be it further enaffed, That it (hall and mavhe I*. c.< r
colleaor, naval-officer, and surveyor, ot any' port n f° fortk t
delivery, at which any (hip or vefcrl may, arrive to r,„. or
such thip or velTel one or more infoefto,, who (hall m!i°l
to the perton having charge of such' thip or vessel the d,„- i "
to perform by virtue of th*is ast ; and tuch inf^afe 1 *
goods, wares or merchandize, lo be delivered without i '
from the proper officer, authonfing the fame ; and thall *?"""■
book to be by him kept for that purpose, the contents 0 T V
permit, fpecitying the marks and numbers of each rack, A
a defcnption thereof, with the name of the person to w? r*" 1
permit was granted ; and if at the expiration of fifteen Z " Ch
(hill K t S ? ° r 7 irel lhall j e S' n ""'load her cargo the"*
thall be found on board, any goods, wares, or merchand.ze ,fc
laid infpeaor fhail take possession thereof, and deliver the
colleaor of the diftria, or to such pe.fon as he (hall author ?
appoint on his behalf to receive the (aid goods, tak.ng hi, "
for the fame and giving a certificate tothe person having comma 'i
dejcnbingthe packages, and then marks and numbers f 0 ,T '
And as soon as any Ih>por vessel is imirely unladen, he' lhall
"f C0l!^ a ° r a " d naval officer, compare the account and entrie. h.
has made of the goods unladen from such (hip or vessel with .k!
man,tell delivered to the colleaor, and if it appears that ,h
more goods than are fpecified .n the said man.feil, the fame'S
be endorsed thereon, with a defcnption- of the packages.
mark* and numbers, or of such goods as may be in bulk
fame thall be tubfcribed by tuch infpeaor, who is hereby direct
to remained board the said thip or vessel until the is difcha^d
&OVIDXD ALWAYS, that the laid limitation of fifteen davsfluii
not extend to vessel. laden with fait or coal, but i £ e
owner of such vessels require longer time to discharge '
goes, the wages of the infpeaor for every day's attendance ct
ceeding the laid fifteen days thall be paid by the mailer or owner
And it any goods, wares or merchandize, fubjea to duty, (hall be
removed from the wharf or place where ihe fame may be landed
before they thall be weighed, or gauged (as the cafe may be'. or'
without the content of the colleaor, or other proper officer' all
tuch goods waies, or merchandize, to removed, lhall be forfeited
All goods delivered to the colleßor in manner aforefaid (hall i,.'
kept at the charge and r,f S ue of the owner, for a term no't exceed
•ng nine months ; and it within that time no claim be made for'
the fame, an appraisement thereol thall be made by two or more
reputable merchants, and lodged with the colleaor,' who (halt
[he dutilrv 1 r a r aion ' and pa * tl,c p^-^s,
he duties and charges thereon, into the treasury of the United
Mates, there to remain for the use of the owner, who ihall upon
due proof of his property, be entitled to receive the fame ; and the
receipt or certificate of the colleaor, thall exonerate the matter or
commander from all claim of the owner. Provided, Thatwhere
entry shall have been duly made of such goods, the fame Oiall not
a PP«««j ; and that where such goods are of a perilhable m
-3ure, they lhall be fold forthwith.
And it ,tfurther enabled, That if any goods, wares or merdian.
dize, on which duties are payahle, thall receive damage durinj the
oyage, or thall not be accompanied with the original invoice of
i eir cost, it (hall be lawful for the colleaor to appoint one met
chant, and the owner or consignee another, fcho being (worn or
affirmed by the collcaor well and truly to appraise such goods,
lhall value them accordingly, and the duties upon such goods inall
c eflimated according to luch valuation; and if any package, or
any goods (lowed in bulk which (hall have been entered as is here
in before direaed, (hall not be duly delivered, or if any ofthe
packages so entered lhall not agree with the manifefl, or if the
mamtctt (hall not agree with the delivery, in every fuchcafethe
person having command (hall forfeit and pay the sura of two
hundred dollars, unless it fliall appear that such difagreementwas
accationed by unavoidable necessity or accident, and not with in
tention to defraud the revenue.
And be it further enafled, That the ad valorem rates of dutiy
upon all goods, wares and merchandize, at the place of importation,
, a eltimated by adding twenty per cent, to the adual coll
thereof, if imported from the Cape of Good-Hope, or from any
pace eyond the fame ; and ten per cent, on the ad ual coll thereof,
an y ot^er place or country, exclusive of all
n be it further enafled, That all foreign coin and currencies
a e eltimated according to the following rates ; each pound
Iter]ing of Great-Britain at four dollars, forty-four cents; each
lvre tournois ol France at eighteen cents and an half; each florin or
guilder ofthe United Netherlands at thirty-nine cents; each mark.
Danco ot Hamburgh at thirty-nine cents and one third ; each rix
oar ot Denmark at one hundred cents; each rix dollar of Swe
den at one hundred cents; each ruble of Russia at one hundred
cents , ea ch leal plate of Spain at ten cents ; each milree of Portu
ga at one dollar and twenty four cents ; each pound sterling of
Ireland at four dollars ten cents ; each tale of China at one dollar
orty-eight cents ; each pagoda of India at one dollar ninety-four
cents ; each rupee of Bengal at fifty-five cents and a half; and all
ot ei denominations of money in value as near as may be tothe
au rates ; and the invoices of all importations, lhall be made out
in t le currency ofthe place or country, from whence the importa
tion lhall be made, and not otherwise.
be it further enafled, That all duties on goods, wares, and
merchandize imported, lhall be paid by the importer, beforea
permit lhall be granted for landing the fame, unless the amount
ot such duties lhall exceed fifty dolors, in which cafe it lhall be at
t e option of the party making entry, to secure the fame by bond,
with one or more fufficicnt sureties, to be approved of by the coir
lector, and made payable as followeth, to wit : Forthe duties up
on all articles of Welt-India produce, within fourmonths; forthe
duties npon all Madeira wines, within twelve months; and tor the
duties upon all other goods, within fix months ; but in anyca<cthe
party making entry thall beat liberty to deposit with thecollec
tor any part of the goods, upon which such duties thall arise, of
double the value in the judgment ofthe colle6lor to secure thepay
ment of the duties with the charges, which deposit the collector
ia accept in lieu of such bond and security, and shall Tafely keeo
the goods so deposited, at the expence and risque ofthe party, so*
t e term for which such bond would have been given, at the expi
ation whereof, unless the said deposit thall have been redeemed
by the payment of the duties, the said goods (hall be fold at pub
'■e fate, and as much as (hall be necessary applied to thepaymept
°ul. l Ut ' es > a nd the residue, after dedu&ing the charges,
which have accrued, lhall be paid to the owner, or owners of such
goods. Provided always, That where the amount of duties
lhall exceed fifty dollars, a discount lhall be allowed for prompt
payment, after the rate often percentumper annum onthe amount
or such excess: And provided also, That no pv. on whole
)ond lor the payment of duties is due and unfatisfied, lhall be al
owed a future credit with the collctlor, until such bond lhall be
tnlly paid or discharged.
And be it further enabled, That all the duties imposed by law on
the tonnage of any ship or vessel, lhall be paid to the collector.
within ten days after entry made, and before such IhiporvelTe
shall be permitted to clear out ; the register of which Ihip or vel
fel at the time of entry, shall be lodged in the officeof the colleti° r »
and there remain until such clearance.
(To be continued.)
PubliJhed by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maid"'
Lane, near the OJwego-Market, New-York.—£3 doLp r - av -i