XXXIX.]
THE TABLE T. No. XXXIX,
" Good citizens fcldom have bad magiflrates."
IN an eletftive government, men in office fur
nilha just portrait of the people, whole affairs
t hey manage. A virtuous, enlightened nation
has no substantial evils to fear from the bad ma
„a<rement of its rulers. The representatives
mult bear the image of their constituents. Among
a free people, it is not owing to the administra
tion of bad men, that the State is not happy an l
jkmrifhing. Those who attribute public niifcar
riages to the misconduct of a few individuals stop
jho t of the mark.
When the people reproach their rulers it may
with propriety be retorted upon them, and said,
they are with greater propriety reproaching
themselves. Because there are few inltances
where the people do not elect into office those
ffl en, whose opinions and manners are most like
]«• to coinci le with their own. It is not pretend
ed that all men in public employment make the
public good the main object of their views. The
introdn&ion of characters into public of
fice, who are deficient both in knovvlege and ho
nesty, raay easily happen, while those who elect
them are destitute of either of those qualities.
Ignorant rulers will not be countenanced by a
sensible people ; vicious rulers can only come
from a vicious people. When by deception an
improper person finds his way into authority, a
change in the election will remove him before he
can do much mifchief.
The public opinion is the great hinge upon
Thich public affairs mult turn. Too much pains
cannot therefore be taken to instruct the inafs of
the people in those sentiments and virtues which
will lay the foundation of a just way of thinking
»nd feeling. The government of a country may
do much towards correcting theerrors of the pub
lic mind, by a fyftein of laws that militate as lit
tie as polfible with natural justice and equity.
Such laws by their operation will gradually lead
people to an hone ft, induftiious way of living.
When this is produced, the popular sentiment
will re-act upon the government and reform its
abuses.
There is in every community a set of men, who
make it their business to keep the people uneasy
with their rulers. By exciting an indefinite kind
of clamor, they prevent those calm and patient
investigations which might reach the true source
of disorders. Many motives prompt men to fcru
tinizs and censure the conduct of public officers.
Perhaps this propensity produces,upon the whole,
more good than evil. But it would be equally
beneficial, and better accord with truth, if the
people would divide the blame with their rulers.
Myneighbor Turbidus charges all the calam
ities, which he ever feels or fees, on the particular
misconduct of persons in authority. He is an in
dolent, imprudent man, and therefore must be
foppofedpoor and involved in debt, but he attri
butes his bad circumstances solely to the govern
ment. How can one, fays he, have money to pay
debts, when taxes run so high, and public officers
have fiich enormous salaries ? He loses more by
idleness and neglect in one week, than the go
vernment exacts of him in taxes for a whole year.
Is it not to be wondered at, that this fame Mr.
T'jubidus makes many good fort of people, very
unhappy and diffatisfiea with public affairs ? So
kzy and worthless a fellow, one would imagine,
could no: nave any influence in society. He is
(•efpifed in every thing he fays or undertakes,
except when he is arraigning the measures of tae
government ; and on this occasion hefeems to ac
quire so me degree of conlequence. We Ihould
therefore reft rain onr pronenefs to listen to cla
mor, or we may be so accultomed to alarm, as to
oe off our guard when real danger approaches.
7o FAR M E R S.
' Philadelphia County Society, for the
ajAgriculture and Domestic Ma
nufactures.
gentl E men, ,
~H is with pleafurel communicate an experi
"J nt .l l ate ly made, to discover the bell method
? - ra '" n E young hogs : Having frequently been
ormti} that pigs would hrive best to be turn
* mto a good clovcr field with the sow, but which
never verified by my own observation, I was
L nf '" ccd make the following accurate experi
ment. 6 1
tw °y ears ol'l> of the Englifli and Guinea
' ee "> had fevenpigs ;at a month old, in a state
Jj °? er t0 wake good roasters, I selected three of
ten 6 an^l>Ut t^lem the sow into a field of
v er aci . e f> Veir y luxuriant with red and white clo
ftort* OKI c timothy and blue grass ;in
1 tuey could not be in better paftnre, to this
W E D N K S D A Y, August 26, 17^9.
they had the advantage of/hade, a fine spring of
water to drink or wallow in at pleasure, and the
common wash of the kitchen ; their weight when
turned out was it, 12 and ijlb.the remaining four
were put into a stable by themselves, they had
plenty of clean straw and as much ikimmed milk
as they could drink, the weight of three of them
was 9, 10 & 1 gib. therefultof the experiment was,
that 111 three weeks time from their being put up,
those with the low with all the advantages above
mentioned, and the milk of the seven, weighed
16, 17 and x 9] Ij. the three in the stable, 2J, 22,
and 191b. which together make 14 pounds weight
in favor of the latter, to which we ihouldalfo add
the four pounds against them when firft put up,
which added make ißlbs. superior to the former.
Our farmers, in general, are too negligent of
t heir young stock of every kind, it is cultomary
tor them to fuffer the mother and young to fhift
themselves ; all animals grow in the inverse
ratio to their age, and therefore the younger they
are, the more neceflary to give them plenty of
food,if you de fire them to acquire the full growth
of which their nature is capable. An animal Hunt
ed when young neverthrives afterwards equal to
those which have had justice done them. lam
fatisfied from a little experience, that a ftridler
attention to the railing of our cattle and stock of
all kinds would give us a breed on our farms equal
to any in the world, and would at the fame time
add greatly to our own wealth and that of our
country. I am Gentlemen,
Your friend,
GEORGE LOGAN.
Stenton, June 2J, 1789.
To the Public in general, and the Manufactur
ers of Pot and Pearl-Ash in particular.
THE price of pot and pearl-ash for several
years part has heen much reduced, and does not
afford the manufaifluiers a due comoenfation foi
their trouble, besides their being de rived of one
half the nrcfit that might be made o . those alhes
that are exported, called the second and third qua
lities. It is attended with adifadvantageous con
sequence to export any of them, or tolet the Eng
li(h import any except of the firft quality, as they
have got into a method of refining salts and bad
pot-ash in England of late, which has reduced the
price of our firft kind of alhes at least five pounds
fterliiig pr. ton, besides the duty they demand of
us. It is well known to be the greatest branch
of manufacture that we have in the five northern
States, and as the duty and freight are the fame
on the second and third as on the firft quality,
and we have works prepared for the purpofe,and
are ready to pay the calh for the second and third
qualities, it behoves us in season to prevent fo
reigners from receiving three quarters of the pro
fits of our mod material cash article.
Newport y Ai/gufl 12, 1789.
WELLINGTON, (ENGLAND) JULY I 788.
IT being now a wet season for hay, I request
the following method may be recommended to
farmers in general, in order to make their hay
serviceable to their cattle, horses, &c. No per
son, whose hay has been out along time, and re
ceived much damage thereby,fhould put ittogeth
er before made dry, and the water quite out of it,
and when putting together, take, to every three
hundred weight of hay, one pound and a quartei
of fait, and throw it into the rick, or hay-mow,
as often as you well can, so that all the hay may
receive the virtue from it. In the winter, the
grazier will fee the good effedts, by the cattle, &c.
likingthe hay, and even giving it the preference
to other. Wishing well to the public, is my
motive. N. W.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES.
Wednesbav, august 19, 1789.
[Debate on the Amendment of the Senate to the Bill
for providing for the expences of Negociations and
Treaties with the Indians, ire.]
MR. BALDWIN observed, That the matter is
left undetermined, whether the treaty with
theWabafh nation is to be included in the provision
as reduced by the Senate or not: If it is, acccord
ing to the account given by the Governor of the
Western Territory of the actual expences attend
ing treaties at which he has been present—it will
fall very much short of what will be absolutely
requiiite, to ensure the objedt, which the House
appear to have in contemplation. He moved to
amend the amendment, by adding these words,
" for holding treaties with the Indians south of
the Ohio."
\_PubliJhed at Wedncfday and Saturday .~\
Mr. Sherman laid, than from information he
had received, there was a large fiun, forty thon
fand dollars, granted by the late Congress for the
business of holding treaties, which has not been
accounted for, and great part of which is now on
hand : He supposed that the Senate had this in
view when they made the amendment.
Mr. Fitzsimons Replied to Mr. Sherman, and
observed, that there is some miflake refpedting
the gentleman's information on the fubjetlt before
the house : In order therefore that they might
atfl underftandingly, and obtain an accurate state
of he moved that the amendment might
lye on the table till to morrow*
Mr. Sedgwick said, when this business was
before under consideration, I was furpiizcd to
find the majority of the house in favor of the sum
then moved for, as The President in his mefliige
appeared to have in contemplation a treaty with
he Creek nation only—and why we should ex
ceed the sum neceflary for that purpose, without
my previous estimate, is to me perfeiflly incom
prehensible : To vote a sum of money in this stage
of the government, double to what is neceflary for
the immediate objed:, and when the circumstan
ces of our Treasury are such, that wecannot make
any provision for the public Creditors, is a very
extraordinary app op; iaiion It very rarely hap
pens that a gove nment excee U in economy—
the sum in the amendment will, be amply fuffi
cient—and if we were to vote the lai gilt sum, we
have reason to fuppol'e that the business would be
protracfied till the w hole is expended.—l hope the
house will concur with the Senate.
Mr. Sumpter was in favor of a concurrence,as
he thought that 20000 dollars would be fully com
petent to the objetfl.
Mr. Madison replied to Mr. Sedgwick: He
controverted his sentiment with refpe<ft to eco
nomy, as applied to States —he doubted the as
sertion that government may not exceed in the
practice of it—and he was not fare that in the
present instance it would not eventually appear,
that unneceflary additional expence was incurred
by too great caution not to exceed in the grant :
Hefeconded Mr. Fitzfimons' motion to defer the
iecifion till to-morrow.
Mr. Boudinot was opposed tothe motion—lt
is a principle with me (said he) from which I do
not mean to deviate, that in all our appropria
tions we ought to have special regard to the state
of the treasury.—What estimate have we to shew
that so large a sum as 40,000 dollars is neceflary
"or this business ? I presume none.—The number
of Indians to be provided for,is much beyond the
number requisite to give the treaties all poflible
validity : 1*( she former difcuflion of this l'ubject,
the gentleman from South-Carolina (Mr. Sump
:er) fully convinced me that so large a number
is quite unneceflary—We ought to consider upon
his occalion, that such large grants will influence
in future appropriations.—lf the sum mentioned
in the amendment should be found infufficient,
the President will give us notice accordingly,
and the deficiency may befupplied—but if we ap
propriate a sum that is mc ethan fufficient in the
present ftaie of our treasury, we fliall find that
we fubje<ft oui selves to very great inconveniences,
.ind cannot juftify such a step. lam of opinion
that 20,000 dolla: s will be found fully fufficient
with what is now on hand : I hope therefore,
hat we fliall not agree to the motion for poftpone
inent —the time fixed for holding the treaty is the
fifteenth of September, that is fact approaching :
What would be the consequence should the war
iors return home after appearing on the ground,
ind not find the commiflioners there to meet
hem ?—To lose a single day, may be attended
.vith fatal efFe<fls.
Mr. Lauraivce was in favour of the motion
for postponement: Hewifhed, he said, that ac
curate information mav be obtained, refpedting
Teveral circumstances which had been mentioned :
Time must be allowed for this ; and by to-mor
row the house may be in pofleflion of such fads
as will enable them to acft more underftandingly
in the business. I trust Sir, said he, that lam as
averse as any member in this house, to taking
money profufely, or unneceflarily out of the
public purse; but this is an important fubjeifl:
The house appear to be fully sensible of this, and
therefore making such provisions as may be com
mensurate to the object in the firft instance, is
the most likely way toenfure that objed:, and
will turn out to be the most saving method in
the end.
The motion for postponement being put, was
negatived.
Mr. Baldwin's motion to insert the words
south of the Ohio was then taken up.
Mr. Scott : It may perhaps be wondered at,
Mr. Chairman, that as I live upon the frontiers,
and may be supposed to know fomcthing of thefciture Indian affairs, I have been silent upon
this occasion—but, Sir, it is because I have no
opinion of Indian treaties—and I hope that if
we vote any sum more than fufficient to support
the Commilfioners, and feed the Indians, while
the treaty is holding, that it will be embezzled ;
for I consider it as the worst kind of policy, to
spend a large sum of money in making presents
to those savages ; it never produces any solid ad
vantages, but constantly thereverfe. The Indi
ans have reduced war and treaties to a system of
commerce and traffic. By giving them presents,
we make them strong to fall upon our defence
lels frontiers ; and it has often been found to be
the cafe, that the arms and ammunition which
they have i-eceived at a treaty of peace, have
been employed to the deftrucftion of the donors :
the fuin of 20000 dollars, I think, will be large
enough.—l hope we lhall concur with the senate.
Mr. Moore was in sentiment with Mr. Scot ;
he reprobated the system which had been adhered
to, of making presents to the Indians.
Mr. Baldwin said, in anfvver to Mr. Scot,
that the gentleman's observations are of a general
nature; the fuperintendant of Indian affairs, and
the secretary at war has made a statement, and
it is to be supposed upon the belt information he
can obtain ; if this is defective, if it is too much,
let the particulars be pointed out in which the
excess lies : His eltimate states that 25000 dol
lars arc requisite for holding treaties with the
southern tribes; if this provision is intended to
defray the expences of holding treaties with both
northern and southern Indians, it appears demon
llrable, that we shall fail for want of the means
of effecting our objedt, in both.
Mr. Sumpter observed that the number on
which the estimate is founded arose from mifin
formation : So large a number is not neceflary :
such a number will not be allembled ; they can
not be provided for, they would run a rilk of
fuffering very much : I have no doubt Sir, that the
business may be well done without aflembling
such a number, and it will be well done if we do
not make too large provision. I hope we lhall
support the dignity of the United States, and let
those Indians know that treaties in future shall
not be violated with impunity ; that we will treat
with them upon generous and reciprocal terms ;
that while we guard them from depredations from
our frontiers, they shall ftriiflly observe the stipu
lations on their part. Some trifling presents may
be neceflary, the custom is of long standing ; but
extravagant and protufe presents I am opposed
to; they are unnecessary. The sum of 20000 dol
lars, I think will be fufficient.
Mr. Baldwin's motion being put, was nega
tived.
The amendment of the senate was then agreed
to. sfdjourned.
SATURDAY, AUGUST 22.
Several petitions were read and laid on the table.
Representations from the citizens of Trenton,
in New-Jersey, York-Town, and Lancaster, in
Pennfylvania,were presented to the Houfe,Hating
the advantages they poflefs in foil, climate, litua
tion, population, cultivation and buildings ; and
proffering their refpedtive towns with the cir
cumjacent territory, of ten miles, to Congress,
for the permanent feat of the federal government.
The amendments to the Constitution as al
tered and agreed to by the House, were read.
Mr. Tucker then proposed the following a
mendment in substance : That Congress shall not
exercise the power of levying diredt taxes, except
in cases where any of the States shall refufe, or
neglect to comply with their requisitions.
Mr. Page said, although I \Vifli the way may
be always open for every member of this house
to propose amendments to the Constitution—yet
as the business is so far completed with refpettto
the report of the committee, I think it will be belt
to proceed and finifh this report, and in the mean
time refer this to the select committee of eleven.
Mr. Tucker : I hope, Sir, the proposition will
be attended to at the present time—as the house
is upon the fubjecfl, and considerable progress is
made, this amendment may be added with ease,
if it should be agreed to—l think it best to finifh
the whole business now Congress has it before
them.
Me. Jackson opposed the proposition : Ihope,
Sir, that the experience we have had will be fuf
ficient to prevent Congress ever divesting them
selves of this power —This experience forcibly
points out the impropriety of adopting this amend
ment—requisitions upon several States it is well
known, tho made several years since, remain un
complied with to this day ; and no inducements
in future can ever be supposed to be fufficiently
operative, to induce so universal a compliance
with requisitions, as to secure the public gofcd,
if a fenie of common danger, war, and the facili
ty of payment in a paper medium were not fuffi
cient to do it : But this plan of requisitions is preg
nant with difficulties of various kinds—it will ex
cite jealousies—insurrections—and civil war, dis
solve the Union, and expose us to the contempt and
invasion of foreign powers : For if this power is
taken from Congress, you divert the United States
ef the means of protecting the Union, or provid
injr for the exigence and continuation of the go
vernment. .
Mr. Livermore fupporied the motion: He
said, it is more important than all that has been
agreed to : This is an amendment to some pur
pose, and which a number of the States have par
ticularly called for : Without some to more pur -
pose is held out to the people, that I have the ho
nor to reprefent,they will conlider tliefe as a mere
mufketo bite—they will not give a pinch of fnuff
for them all.
Mr. Page observed, that this proposition is one
about which the warmed friends to amendments
have differed in opinion : Some of them have en
tirely ceased urging it, and others have become
the molt strenuous advocates for the reverse ; and
now fay that the government ought never to give
up this power : For my part, experience has fully
evinced that no dependence can be placed upon
requifmons : If in a time of war, and when we
made paper money by hogsheads full, they were
disregarded, I have no expectation that any de
pendence in future can be placed in tliem—l lhall
therefore be against the proposition.
Mr. Gerry moved, that it be referred to a fe
lecft committee.
Mr. Tucker objected to this motion, he said
the fubjeft of amendments is still open—as the
report of the committee is not yet completed.
Mr. Gerry advocated the object ofthemotion ;
but he did not think that object fully compre
hended in the motion now before the house : He
then entered into a general difcuflion ofthequef
tion, and pointed out the consequences of the ex
ercise of this power by the general government,
as involving the annihilation of the State govern
ments.
Mr. Tucker: I do not fee the arguments in fa
vour of giving Congress this power info strong a
light as some gentlemen do: It will be to erect
an iviperium in imperio ; which is always consi
dered as subversive of all government. When
ever Congress ihall exercile this power, it will
raise commotions intlieftates; whereas the mode
of requisitions will operate in such an easy way,
by being consonant to the habits of the people,
that the supplies will be sooner realized into the
public treasury in this, than by the other mode.
Much time must be spent in forming a uniform
fyftcm of taxation, which lhall operate equally
and justly through all the States, if it is poifible
to form such a fyltem.—lt is said that requisitions
have not been complied with in former times ; but
it is to be expected that there will not be so much
difficulty in future. The requisitions will be great
ly diiniiiifhed by reason of the supplies from the
impost; besides, should any of the States not
comply, they will in that cafe be liable to the ex
ercile of the power of Congress in the very heart
of such States as are delinquent ; this power
would be so disagreeable, that the dread of it
would ferveto stimulate the States to an immedi
ate and prompt compliance with the requisitions.
This amendment is proposed by several of the
States, and foine of the moil important ; and for
this, and other reasons which have been offered,
I hope the amendment will be adopted.
Several methods of disposing of this question
for the present were propofed,but the motion for
its lying 011 the table being put and negatived,
Mr. Partridge, referring to his inftrmtions,
was solicitous that this amendment should not be
too suddenly decided upon, moved the previous
question, which was negatived.
Mr. Sedgwick observed, that he believed he
felt the force of the instructions from his constitu
ents which they ought to have upon his mind,
and to as great a degree as other gentlemen ; but
Sir, said lie, a government entrusted with the
freedom, and the very existence of the people,
ought surely to poflefs, in the 1110 ft ample manner,
the means of supporting its own existence ; and
as we do not know whatcircumftances we may be
in, nor how neceflary it may be for Congress to
exercise this power, I should think it a violation
of the oath I have taken to support this constitu
tion, were I now to vote for this amendment.
Mr. Sherman observed that if congress should
exercise this power, the taxes would be laid by
the immediate representatives of the people ; nor
would there be any necefiity for adopting one u
niform method of collecting direct taxes : The
several states may be accommodatcd by a refer
ence to their respective modes of taxation.
The question upon the paragraph being called
for from all parts of the house, the ayes and noes
stand thus :
' AYES.
Mejfrs. Burke--Coles—Floyd—Grout— Hathorn
—Livermore—Van Pianfelaer—Suinpter—Tucker
—9-
NOES.
Messrs. Ames—Benfon—Brown—Cadwallader
—Carroll- -Clymer—Fitzfimons—Fofter—Gale
—Gerry—Gilman—Goodhue--Hartley---Heifter
—Jackfon—Laurance—Lee—Madifon—Mat-
thews—Moore—Muhlenberg—Page Parker
Partridge—Sliureman— Scott—Sedgwick Seney
—Sherman—Sylvefter—Sinnickfon— Smith (M)
—Smith (S. C.) —Stone—Sturges— Thatcher—
Tru yibul]—Vining—W ad fwortli 39.
Mi. 1 ucKEßthcn proposed some other amend
mcnts, from tliofe proposed by tlic state of South.
Carolina ; which were severally negatived.
Mr. Gerry proposed the two following,vi z __
Congress shall not eftablifhany company or com
panies of merchants with exclusive privileges!!
The other to prohibit the officers of the general
government from accepting any title of nubility
from any foreign power. Tliefe were both lie
gatived.
Mr. Benson introduced a resolution to this
purport: Rel'olved by the house of reprefenti
tives of the United States in Congress aliembled
that the following amendments to the constitu
tion of the_ United States having been agreed to
by two thirds of both lioufes, be fubmittedtothe
legislatures of the several states; which when
ratified in whole or in part by three fourths of
said legislatures, ihall be valid to all intentsand
purposes as parts of said constitution. This re
iolution was referred to a committee, confiftingof
Mr. Benson, Mr. Sherman, and Mr. Sedg
wick, who were directed to arrange the fai(l a
mendments, and report.
Mr. Goodhue moved that the report of ihe
joint committee on the adjournment be made the
order of the day on Monday next: Pafled in the
affirmative.
The committee on the part of the house ap
pointed to confer with the senate on their a
mendinent to the treasury bill being calledoa
to report, Mr. Madison reported verbally,
that the committee had met and conferred upon
the subject ; that the members on the part of the
senate fla ed the reasons on which their amend
ment was founded ; which not being fatisfa&ory
to the committee on the part of the house, they
then submitted certain propositions to the com
mittee of the senate, who on their part offered
none: Mr. Madison further reportedthat it is
the opinion of the committee on the part of
the house, that it would notbebeft for the house
to recede from their disagreement.
A petition was presented from the inhabitants
of the town of Alexandria, setting forth that a
certain clause in the collection bill operates un
equally upon the citizens of that port, and pray
ing for alteration therein. Laid on the table.
Adjourned.
MONDAY, AUGUST 2\.
A memorial from the inhabitants of George Town, on Patow
mac, was introduced by Mr. Carrol, which being read, was re
fered, with a petition from the inhabitants of Alexandria, to a
committee, consisting of MelTrsCarrol, Lee, and Goodhue.
Mr. Madison prefenteda petition trom John Hurt, aChap
lain in the late Southern army, which was read and laid on
the table. . .
Mr. Fitzsimons of the committee appointed to bring in a
bill for establishing the salaries of the officers in the executive de
partments, brought in a report which was read the firft time.
The salaries proposed in the bill are as follow :
To the Secretary of the treasury. 5 -
Secretary of foreign affairs 3500
Secretary of the department of war 2500
Comptroller 2000
Auditor *s°°
Treasurer , 6°°
Register 12 6°
Superlntcndant of Indian affairs 1000
Governor of the Western Territory 1000
Afliftant to the secretary of the Treasury 1600
Chief clerk, to thefecretary of foreign as- ) g QO
fairs )
Chief clerk in the war department 6°°
The committee appointed to arrange the amendments agreed to
by the house, and to prepare a resolution as a preamble to the fame,
made report : The resolution is the fame brought in yeflerday—
which wasaccepted. The amendments as arranged were thenrea •
The order of the day on the report of the joint committee onaa
adjournment was moved for. .
Mr. Vining was opposed to taking up this report: Heo er
ved, that it appeared absurd to go into a difcuflion of the 103
at this moment —it would neceflarily involve a great deal of e alc
and loss of time, and would counteract the onjeft of gentlemen ien
tirely,while fomany important fubjefts were yet undecided, w ic
mud be attended to and finifhed, previous to a recess : Hemo\c
for a postponement, in order to take up the Treasury Bill.
Mr. Hartley obferved,that the gentleman's remarks urni
ed the best argument for coming to a determination upon.
adjournment at the present time, as it was the best way to eon
the attention of the house to the essentials, which claime
immediate notice and decision. j trk:
Mr. Sedgwick advocated taking up the report imme ia )•
He contended that it would expedite the public bufmels,
observed) his observation was founded on experience ; wne
time is once fixed, and gentlemen are fully imprefled J?
importance of dispatching business in a given time, he na k
as much tranfatted in the assembly of MafTachufetts in
and as well done as had been before in three.
served that many gentlemen were anxious to go home ,
sickly season was approaching, and that if an adjournmen
not take place, the members will be thinned off so that in *
bability a much less number than the present will be let 0
business.
Mr. Vi ni ng's motion was withdrawn. r solved,
Mr. Madison proposed the following resolution,
That when this house does adjourn on the °* '
they will adjourn to the firft Monday in December next.
Mr. Scott objected to this : He said it was too short a Extreme
it would not admit of the members who lived at t e
parts of the Union going home and returning again >
mentioned. r^toadioun'
Mr. Liver mo re also objected to it; and propote
on the First day of September. walked
Mr. Goodhue said, that he believed,that gentlemen w ,
of adjourning thefirft of September, did not wish for anya J
ment at all : He contended for a short adjournment as p
by ther efolution : Some relaxation from bufinels is nece
also expedient to consult our constituents : Some altera
be necessary in the laws wehave ena&ed : Wecanju ge . ye
that necessity from observation, and conversation in our r
States. j fiiithebl^
Mr. Ames supported the motion, and proposed to
with 22d which was carried in the affirmative. n fadiou rn '
Mr. Sumpter objetted to the shortness of the time
ment : The business now before us cannot be conl P r
if we may judge by what has already taken pla ce •' ie confult
be so short, that none of the advantages to be derive r• ronftituents can bs realized by thofc from remote d.f.
!ii ' Short recesses are attended with great expence, and we
a fuitablt^account of our coriduft in adjourning for so
cannot g ,vc leaving [bmuch business unfinifhed : Gentlemen
ft» rt ' "fl-' private concerns—T believe 110 member has made
Illk ■ nroßortionable facrifice than I have ; but the public good
'Bre?8 re ? f .fly regarded; Our own affairs ought not to influence
I'k'ne some plan of accommodation will take place.
" S: Ames introduced the foregoing resolution in the following
Mr. AM p re sident of the Senate and Speaker of the
Xl If Reorefentatives, do adjourn the refpettive Houses of Con
fon the 2"d September next, to meet on the firlt Monday
°M CC that the time was too short ; it will
ii it of the members who come fiom a distance, consulting
?•'!!!,ftituents, and so far the advantage of an adjournment
ftl ft - Let us view the matter in another poult of light.
* , 1,1, Vone forth refpefting the compensations—this will
those alarms, for a very great expence, it will be laid, is
Skftly incurred : If we fit two months longer, we shall so fa.
1., the public business, as to fupercede the neceflity of meet
n mher ■ I think the adjournment ought to be to the fitfl
jjg in lJece • ConUitution will warrant this : Mil-
Monday in , a ' ccomm odation of all, ought to be made :
ttlte time proposed the cold season will be advanced-ice and
f .;ii nrrvfnt gentlemen at the eastward and northward from
Jin* to business—hence that season will be a
, ,Jj th „, r convenience ; but let us look to the members from
SthwaVd-it ought ,0 beconfidered that their relaxed confti
-i. he neatly exposed by the feverc cold of this northern
Ce Wide. will then be.theirbufy season so, planting, &c.
Soineco'iicellions ought to be made : The southern members would
toner forfeit their feats in this house.than be obliged to come hci,
nthe winter ■ This will operate to deprive the remote parts ol
the Union of their representation : I move therefore that the tinv
i ntended to the firft of March.
Mr Giury wasoppofed to so fhoit an adjournment : He da
ted the expence that would attend it, and made it 20000 dollars,
, [am that would pay Congress for fifty days attendance : This he
obfetved rendered it demonstrable that it is mod prudent so,
Consrefs to cont.nue the session, and fimfh the business. If it is
Afclut-lv necelfary for any particular gentleman to go .home, leave
juv be granted I trust, said he, that there is no one that think:
linfelf offo much consequence, that the government cannot pro.
«d without him, or that Congress thinks so, ifthey should wher
[,-ha member departs, the public business must Hand it.ll :
knee has been had to out-door conversation. and we are caution
rilo beware of exciting public clamor ; but, Sir, I trull that idea;
of this kind are not to influence in the deliberations of this ilfem
bk or deter us from deciding what we think is just and best
Mr Kckson said, that he was furpnfed to hear a gantlemi
autionine the houf- againll being influenced by popular clamor,
ad the opinion of people without doors, elpecially as that gentle.
m has within a fortnight pad, raised more bugbears from thai
tarce than all the house besides.
Mr. Gekry made some reply to Mr. Jackson, .vhich wai
Ml heard diltinftly. , , ,
Mr. Boudinot said, that he supposed that the time betwe. r
tiiund the adjournment will be fufficient to complete the organi
sm of the judiciary and executive departments. The adjourn-
will in the commoncouife of events, aliow the members from
Georgia three or four weeks at home : A Oiort recess is abfolutelv
atttlaty : A long one will be highly injurious.
Mr. ViniNO recapitulated a number of articles, now pending
before Congress, upon which it is presumed, said he, that it is nol
ncctffary to°confult our condiments : We already know their sen
timents: Th's business mull absolutely be attended to, and com
plated previous to a recess : I am oppof.d to the motion for ad
wming till March ; but on a conciliatory plan will move lor the
firft of January. i
Mr. Tucker said, I conccive that the business is taken up
wioiie; the resolution proposed is entirely improper : It puts it
in the power of theSp Aer, in cafe the senate concur, to adjourr
the House on that day, let circumstances be what they may : Thu
isunorecedeut d, and cannot be agreed to.
Mr. [ackson called for the previous qutftion on Mr. Antes'
motion—and on the question, Shall the main question now be put ?
it passed fn the afßrinative. .
The main question then being put, it also pa(l:d in the athima
tive, by a majority.
The amendment of the Senate to the Treasury Bill, was taken
into consideration : And Mr. Madison of the committee ol
conference made a verbal report,as mentioned in Saturday s Ikitch.
Mr. Vininc moved, that the house ftiould now adhere to their
ii&greemcnt to the amendmant of the senate.
Mr.SHtRMAN, Mr. Page,and Mr. Gerry made a few ob
fcrvations against the motion, which however was carried in the
affirmative.
The house then went into a committee of the whole on the ju
diciary Bill—Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
Mr. Blk son moved, that the word "Federal" in the pream
blelhould be struck out, which was voted in the affirmative
Mr. Li vermo re moved that the word " lour' betore judges
be struck out and three inserted.
Mr. Sedgwick, was in favour of the word four, the points to
l»e discussed and fettled by the judges are of the firft magnitude.
It is a most desirable object, said he, to have it determined by
die most rcfpe&able authority, ahat is law.
Mr. Jackson said that the number should be either increaie
0T diminished ; forwhenthey are equally divided, no decihon can
fchad: He was therefore in favour of striking out the words
Mr. Sedgwick adverted to the courts in Great Britain, where
there were four judges, and where no difficulties had been expe
rienced.
Mr. Jackson said that we were not bound to follow the cu -
l°m of the British courts, where it was liable to exception. 1 c
question on striking out the words was loft.
Mr. Livermore moved another amendment which was not le
tonded.
Mr. Burke moved that " chief justice" should be *
is a concomitant of royalty, said he. It was oblerved by Mr.
that thisis a provilion of the constitution; Mr. Burke
Withdrew his, motion upon this information.
Mi. Tucker moved to strike out the whole claufc, t.ividing
l he United States into diftrifts for the purpose ot instituting inferi
or federal courts. He said that the state courts aie fully compe
tent to purposes for which these courts are to be created ; and that
lh ey will be a burthenfome and useless expence : Seconded by
Mr. Sumpter.
Mr. Livermore said he was not in favour of striking out t ie
*We clause ; he wiftied to have the United States divided into
diftrifis, but he concurred in the other idea of the gentleman , e
"■tied tor all the diftrifts, except Kentucky, to be ellaolilned tor
™ fake ofeftablithing a court of Admiralty in each ; authorized
"ot only to take cognizance of all marine concerns, but alio o
™fcurfs.
'Mr. Tucker said he did not move to strike out the dillrifts
'» prevent the eftablilhmcnt of admiralty courts ; he was in favour
J l ' filch courts; but he presumed the Hates compose fuincient dil
t'tts. The motion was negatived. .
"wasthen moved, by Mr. Livermore to strike out the
*wdi" one to be called Kentucky diftrift." He observed that
Js tne matters would be chiefly of a marine nature that would come
wider the Cognizance of these courts, Kentucky would, f™J"," s
™«'on, have nothing to do with such matters ; and to cftablilh
lc courts there will be a needless expence. This wasnegative .
Livermore moved that the Vrhole paragraph rc JP cttl "B
"blifhing diftrift courts should be struck oiU. This eftablilh
"Ediftrift courts, said he. to hold four feflions annually, will
lc o d lo the necefiV.y of establishing a new system of jutifprudence
for the United Slates ; it will be eftablifhin:* two diftin£t fyfiems
of judicial proceedings; one mull. finally destroy the other. It
is a prevailing opinion that law and courts are an abridgement of
liberty; this is a sentiment with a great many, and it will not be
wife to excite an increase of such ideas. Ido conceive these
courts are unnecessary; we have courts already fully fufficient for
all the purposes for which these courts are to be eftablifhtd ; and
appeals maybe made to the supreme federal court. We (hall
prcjudicc the people against the governm nt; we have imposed
duties of impost, and are raising revenue upon them : now if in
addition to this we create useless court*, with a new set of judges,
ftieriffs or marlhalls, clerks, constables, See. will it not be con
sidered as laying a heavy and unneflary additional burthen ? We
must also erect a new set of goals; for we cannot put the criminals
aud p:ifoners to be tried by these courts, into the county goals.
The juries, judges, &c. &c. will be a great and useless expence ;
and these courts will have a tendency to create universal uneasi
ness among the people.
Committe rose and reported progress.
Mr. Stone aflccd leave of absence from Ift Sept. Granted.
Mr. Sylvester asked leave of absence for three weeks.
Granted. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, AUGUST 25.
The bill for establishing the salaries of the officers in the execu
tive departments was read a second time, and referred to a com
mi tee of the whole, to be taken upon Friday next.
The report of the committee on the ele&ions of New-Jersey is
made the order of the day for Monday next.
In committee of the whole, Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
The bill to provide for the fafe keeping of the a£ts, records
and great seal of the United States, &c. was taken into confedera
tion. This bill states that the department of u foreign affairs"
shall be denominated the Department oe State, to which
a variety of duties of a domestic nature are tobe annexed, and the
principal officer therein to be denominated the Secretary of
State. Considerable progress was made in the difcuflion : seve
ral clauses were altered, and others struck out; but the time not
admitting of its completion, the committee rose, and the chair
man reported progress.
A mefTage was received from the senate by Mr. Secretary
Otis, informing the honourable house, that they concurred in
the resolution for fixing the time of adjournment. Also that the
senate had receded from that part of their amendment to the trea
furv bills to which the house had disagreed. Adjourned.
LATEST EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, MAY 5, 1789.
CHINA TRADE.
In a Foreign Journal just published, it appears, the number of
ships arrived in the road of Wampo, near China, laftyear, amount
to iixty-five, viz. Fifty-one Engiifh, five D itch, three French,
two Swedish, two Americans, one Pruflian* and one Italian.—
Twelve European ships arrived at Macao, viz. Five Engiifh, four
Portuguese, two French, and one Austrian.
In 1 756, the trade of China employed only 15 ships in all, viz.
Six Dutch, five Engiifh, one French, one Dane, one Swede, and
one Pi uflian. The Chinese profit by this cncreafevery well; but
the Europeans will probably be ruined by it —as they are obliged
to buy wilh ready specie.
Tea, which then fold for talcs the pecul, now fells for 36
talcs ; and the Engiifh have contributed to lay this burthen upon
the other Europeans ; for not being provided with money fuffici
ent to cariy their trade on, they have bought on credit, and giv
en bills to the Chinese on the Eafl-India Company.—The Chi
nese, eager for money, charge the bills at 15 and 16 per cent,
loss to make upfor which they raise the price of all their merchan
dize proportionably, and thus recover what they appear to
have loft.
June 10. On the 12th of May, Marshal Laudohn appeared
at the head of the Imperial army, in Croatia.
Next he sent a letter to the Turkish Pachas and Command
ants, proposing a milder treatment of prisoners on both fides, and
efpccially that the Auilrian prisoners should not be mutilated, as
he must make use of reprisals.—But the Turks will not pay any re
gard to his proposals.
A letter from Ancona mentions, that the Ruffian fleet has de
stroyed the firft division of the Turkish fleet, near the port of
Warna.
Dispatches are received from Sir Robert Ainflie, his Majesty's
AmbafTador at Conftantinople,which confirm the accounts that the
Sublime Porte, under the new Sultan, is preparing to prosecute
the war Ruflia and her ally with the utmost vigor ; but
that they are endeavoring to cultivate the best understanding with
all the other christian powers.
June 15. The Duke of Normandy, has been declared Dau
phin by the King of France.
.The Court of Denmprk has received the answer of the Empress
of Ruflia, in refpeft to the mediation of our Court, and that of
Pruffi.T, to prevent the Danes from acting hoftilely towards Swe
den. The answer is said to be, " that her Majesty considers Den
mark to be bound by every principle of honor, to support its trea
ty with Ruflia, that she has full right to rely on its being fulfilled
with alacrity, and that Denmark should furnifh the assistance a
greed upon between the two powers, particularly the succoUrs by
sea, as no just reason had,or could be aflignad for a breach of faith
and promise." , _ ,
June 18. Tuesday the Marquis de la Luzerne, ambaiiador
from the court of Francc, delivered to the duke of Leeds copies
of letters written by his molt Christian majesty to the Britiih
court, on the death of the Dauphin. The mourning in France
is to last only ten weeks; consequently it will be but of lhort du
ration here.
CHALESTON, AUGUST 10.
Late accounts from Cuba inform, that the port of Havanna is o
pen for the importation of slaves in the vessels ot all nations, and
that the ports of Principe and St. Jago were also to be open for
the fame purpose in a few days, under certain reftriftions, the
purport of which were daily expetted to be announced by a pro
clamation at the Havanna. This step is taken to encourage two
merchants of Liverpool, who have promised to give Spain a mo
nopoly of the slave trade, if Great-Britain throws it up.
To our knowledge of Amcnca, a large and valuable add,t,on
may soon be expected, for several of the inhabitants of Canada
had the spirit, about two years since, to fend at their dwn expence,
different persons to traverse that vast continent, from the welt
ward to the opposite shore.
PHILADELPHIA, AUGUST 20.
Extract of a letter from a member of CongreJ.i to his friend tn this city,
dated Au\? a/? 17'. .
44 In accepting feats here, it was a reasonable expectation that
so much free- will would have been left as that without being ques
tioned, reviled Ad threatened, we might in a dollar matter at
lead have determined on our own judgment. Any proof to
Miliary will serve to cor, eft our notions as to the refpeft and honor
supposed to be annxed to them. I believe sincerely that Congress
have been directed by other motives than a care of their own in
terest or difi egard of the public money in the late determination
refpe&ing salaries and wages. r . •• . make a
« Hiffh emoluments do not in themselves, it is true make
government icfpeftable ; but their tendency is certainly to bring
f A m mf-n into it The competition for places is always in
an mverfe ratT<T of lu benefits, contrary to the hypothesis of feme
potoSans. Be the worth of an office £\iooo a yea, the cand.da.es
will be few and refpe&able—let the fame at £. 100 the applicants
will be as ten to one ; and perhaps as mean as numerous. It is* a
consciousness of pretensions, not com nr n to many, t!;at gencralJy
incites to high claims. This principle. I suppose, was kept in
view, but after all what has been don under it ? I believe no cal
culation will juftify an opin<on that any man s fortune wjil Be
made—let us try —after the firftytnr it will be impofTi ie to em
ploy more than 60 or 70 days in the public business the amount
ior a representative then will be
70 days at 6 dollars 420
The average milage 140
560-f. 210
out of which he may with economy Tave £. 110 tc> comp'-nfoie,
if a profcflional man, the loss of patients or clients rifqu<_d by the
chasm in his business—or if a merchant the greater risque of loss
in crazing his brain with politic*—or if a man merely of fortune,
to make up those deficiencies which always tollow even transient
negle£ts of his affairs. When prudence and not cnthufiafrrl shall
govern, as it generally will do—to stay at home or leave it,
will be a question of less difficult debate, than it has been during
the prefenL year. As to the Speaker it is supposed he is to keep a
publick table. The clerk mull have indufiry, profemon.nl skill
and ability, and must give the whole year to his business, in and
out of session—He ought to be as refpe&able as any piachfing at
torney whatever, and with such qualities to goto market, he might
perhaps make a better bargain with the world at large. The
door-keeper is, out of his thfee dollars, to pay a herd of fatelhtes
with brooms, brushes and wheelbarrows, and so on.
" I believe my friend the objea is not obtained even by this
extravagant vote and that after a mort time Congress may be hUed
by single men andunfuccefsful profefTors in every branch of business
—those to whom as I said before a trifle abroad will be better than
nothing at hom , and to whom indeed any spot is equally a home.
Now that Congress have entered on the fubjeft cf amendments
to the eonftitution, fays correspondent, and as the avowed pur
poses of am ndirig it are Hill further to secure the rights of the
people, and to r move the fears of thole who are diflatisn-d with
it in its prefect form, one important amendment which has not
yet been suggested might be made—lnftead of leaving it in ..he
power of Congress to fix their own wages, let the constitution do
it for them. Let them be allowed a reafoanble compcnfation for
their services ; but fuffer them not to riot on the ruins of their
country, or to draw from the treasury enormous sums, such as are
inconsistent with republican economy —inconsistent with republi
can liberty—and such as arc glaringly inconsistent with the honor
and juflice of the United States, while,the services of her citizens,
in the late war, are fuffered to go unrewarded, while her foreigfi
and domcflic creditors are not even paid the interest of that money
which they generously lent her in the hour of distress. If none
of these reasons are fufficient to come in competition with the
Epicurean entertainments of gentlemen in Congress let them
that povefty which pervades every part of their country.
NEW YORK, AUGUST 26.
FROM CORRESPONDENTS.
It is a inoft excellent observation of an Hon.
Gentleman, that certain abuses are more likely to
take place under the State governments, than
under the general government. —This remark is
founded 011 fadts and an intimate acquaintance
with human nature—lt is to be regretted there
fore, that there are not more redactions imposed
upon the individual governments by the consti
tution to secure the equal rights of the people.
Is it not astonishing that the only idea of abuse
of power which some persons feemto apprehend,
is from the general government ? And therefore,
to use the expreflion of another Hon. Gentleman,
" the Talons of the Eagle must be pared,' when
in retracing a few pages of very modem history,
we find that individual States have been guilty of
flretches of power and arts of oppi eflion, which
lhould the general government be so abandoned
and infatuated as to commit, would immediately
produce another revolution.
A correspondent who heard he debates of the national repre
fentativesjvefterday,on the fuhjefl of the final authentication of bills,
perceived that adivcrfity of opinions prevailed on that point. It
ft undoubtedly of importance that this should be performed wit h
solemnity, and attended with certainty. To combine both thefs
obiefts, what better expedient can be luggeßed, than for the Presi
dent to attend about the close of each feflion, in the presence of
both houfes,and recognize his (ignature and approbation ? Tor this
purpose the heads of theafls could be recited by the secretary or
clerk, and the President couldin thisfolemn manner, acknowledge
his allent. This would give a dignity to the laws, and contribute
to impreTs the public mind with veneration and refpeft for legi
slative proceedings. , c
The prosperity of a government depends very much on the fi
delity and exertions of executive officers. It has been found nc
ceflary in all governments to make such liberal provision as to ex
cite a degree of competition. This brings forward the ablest can
didates, and begets a watchfulriefs over the conduct of the officers
in the various departments.
We are informed that a meeting was lately
held in Philadelphia, of the principal schoolmas
ters and inftruiftors of youth; to deliberate ana
fix upon some uniform method of teaching our
vernacular language —a sub-committee was ap
pointed to determine upon some grammar extant,
or to prepare and report a system for general use :
This committee we are further informed, report
ed in favor of adopting Mr. Webster's.
The collector of Bolton diftrirt has ordered,
that none but American paper be ufedin the Cus
tom-House of that place.
N. B. Mr. Madj»on'« observations in committee of the whole, un
der the 16th. amendment, were made after the motion to insert the word
" expressly" as moved by Mr. Gtrr vin the house. The insertion of
that word was the quejlion agitated in the Convention of Virginia, to
which Mr. Madison referred : See No. 38.
#3" The F.ffavson coins, weights, and measures for the United States
which have appeared in this paper, were taken from the Pennsyl
vania Mercury, publi/hed by Mr. D. Humphreys.
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK.
Saturday Schooner Adonis, Durham, St. Vincents.
Sloop Polly, Bartlet, Wilmington,
Sunday Brig Betsy, Colley, Boston.
Monday Brig Betty, Mitchell, Halifax.
Sloop Commerce, Muslin, Quebec.
Schooner Catherine, Willfon,
Sloop Experiment, Whitney, St. Martin s.
Tucfdav, Snow St. Nicholas, Melida, Bilboa.
Brig Recovery, Macey, Dunkirk.
Schooner Eagle, Jackways, Shelburne.THE RIGHT CONSTITUTION OF A COMMON WEALTH
EXAMINED.
(continuation.)
A SEVENTH reason, why a people qualified with a due and
orderly fucceflion of their supreme aflemblies, are the bell keep
ers of their own liberties is, " bccaufe, as in other forms, those
4C persons only have access to government who are apt to serve
" the lull ana will of the prince, or else are parties or
*' compliers with some popular faction ; so in this form ol
" government by the people, the door of dignity (lands open
" to all, without exception, that ascend thither by Heps of
44 worth and virtue : the consideration whereof hath this noble
" efFe£l in free Hates, that it edges men's spirits with an a£live em
" ulation, and raifeth them to a lofty pitch of design and attion."
This is a mass of popular aflertions, either hazarded at random,
x or, if aimed at a point, very little guarded by the love of
truth. It is no more true, that in other forms U.ofe per
sons onlyhave access to government who are apt to serve the lust
and will of a princc or a fa&ion, than it is that, in our author's
lorm, those only would obtain elettions who will serve the lulls
and wills of the mod idle, vicious, and abandoned of the peo
ple, at the expence of the labour, wealth, and reputation of the
moll indufti ious, virtuous, and pious. The door of dignity, in
such governments, is so far from Handing open to all of worth
and virtue, that, if the executive and judicial powers are manag
ed in it, virtue and worth will soon be excluded. In absolute
monarchy the road to preferment may lie open to all. In an ari
llocracy, the way of promotion may be open to all, and all offices
in the executive department, as in the army, navy, courts ot jul
tice, foreign embaflies, revenues, &c. may be filled from any class
of the people. In a mixed government, cqnfilling of three branch
es, all offices ever will be open, for when the popular branch is
dellined expressly to defend the rights of the people, it is not prob
able they will ever consent to a law which lnall exclude any class
of their conllituents. In this kind of government, indeed, the
chance for merit to prevail is greater than in any other. The ex
ecutive having the appointment to all offices, and the ministers of
that executive being responsible for every exercise of their power,
they are more cautious; they are refponf>ble to their mailer for
the recommendations they give, and to the nation and its repre
sentatives for the appointments that are made : Whereas a lingle
representative alTembly is accountable to nobody. If it is admit
cd that each member is accountable to his conllituents for the vote
he gives, what is the penalty? No other than not to vote for
him at 'the next ele&ion. And what punilhment is that ? His
conllituents neither know nor care any thing about offi es or offi
cers but such as lie within the limits of their parish; and let him
vote right or wrong about all others, he has equally their thanks
and future votes. What can the people of the cities, counties,
boroughs, and corporations in England know of the chara£Lrs of
all the generals, admirals, ambafladors, judges, and bishops,
"whom they never saw, nor perhaps heard of?
But was there never a Sully, Colbert, Malelherbes, Turgot or
Neckar, called to power in France? nor a Burleigh, nor a Pitt
in England ? Was there never a Camillus appointed by a Senate,
nor a De Ruyter, Van Tromp, nor a De Witt by an arillocratical
body ? When a writer is not careful to confine himfclf to truth,
but allows himfelf a latitude of affirmation and denial, merely
OGdrelTed to an ignorant populace, there is no end of ingenuity
in invention. In this cafe his obje£l was to run down an exiled
king and a deprelTed nobility; and it mull be confefled he is not
very delicate in his means. There are, in truth, in
numerable of excellent generals, admirals, judges, ambafladors,
bilhops, and all other officers and magillrates appointed by mon
arch?, absolute as well as limited, and by hereditary senates; excel
lent appointments have been alio made by popular aflemblies :
but candour mull allow, that very weak, injudicious, and unfor
tunate choices have been sometimes made by such aflemblies too.
the bell appointments for a course of time have invariably
been made in mixed governments. The 44 attive emulation" in
iree states is readily allowed : but it is not less a&ive, less general,
or less lofty, in design or action, in mixed governments than in
nmple ones, even fimpie democrats, or those which approach
nearest to that description: And the instances alledgcd from the
Roman hillory are full proofs of this.
44 During the vaflalage of the Rofbans under kings, we read
<4 not of any notable exploits, but find them confined within a
" narrow compass ; opprefled at home, and ever ana anon ready
"to be swallowed up by their enemies." It is really impofli
ble to guess where this author learnt his hillory. The reigns of
the kings are a complete confutation of his assertions. The vaf
lalage was to the nobles, if to any body, under the kings. The
kings were friends and fathers of the people in general. If the
people were opprefled at home, it was by tne patricians ; but they
appear to have been much less opprefled than they were under the
arillocracy which succeeded the abolition of monarchy as our author
himfelf confefles. 44 But when the people were madefree, indeed,
44 and were admitted into a lhare and interell in the government, as
" well as the great ones, then it was that their power began to
44 exceed the bounds of Italy, and aspire towards that prodigi
-44 ous empire." Was Rome ever a free Hate, according to our au
thor's idea of a free Hate ? Were the people ever governed by a
fucceflion of sovereign power in their aflemblies ? Was not the
senate the real sovereign, through all the changes, from Romulus
to Julius Caifar ? When the tribunes were inllituted, the people
obtained a check upon the senate, but not a balance. The ut
moll that can with truth be said is, that it was a mixed government
composed of three powers; the monarchical in the kings or con
suls, the arillocratical in the senate, and the democratical in the
people and their tribunes, with the principal lhare and real sove
reignty in the senate. The mixture was unequal, and the balance
inadequate; but it was this mixture, with all its imperfections,
that " edged men's spirits with an a&ive emulation, and raised
" them to a lofty pitch of design and a£lion." It was in conse
quence of this composition, that 44 their thoughts and power be
-44 gan to exceed the bounds of Italy, and aspire towards that pvo
-4 4 digious empire." In such a mixture, where the people have
a share, and " the road to preferment lies plain to every man, no
" public work is done, nor any conq.uqft made, but every man
44 thinks he does and conquers for himfelf," in some degree.
Sutthis sentiment is as vivid and a£live, surely, where the peo
ple have an equal lhare with the senate, as where they have only
an imperfett check by their tribunes. When our author advances,
44 that it was not alliance, nor fricndlhip, nor fa&ion, nor rich
-44 es that could advance men," he affirms more, than can be pro
ved from any period of the Roman or any other hillory. If he
had contented himfelf with faying, that these were not exclusive
or principal causes of advancement, it would have been as great a
panegyric as any nation at any period has deserved. Knowlcge,
valour, and virtue, were often prefered above them all; and, if
we add, geveraHy, it is as much as the truth will bear. Our au
thor talks of a preference of virtuous poverty ; but there was no
moment in the Roman, or any other hillory, when poverty,
however virtuous, was orefered for its own fake. There have
been times and countries wher. poverty was not an insuperable ob
jection to the employment of a man in the highest llations ; but
an absolute love of povert), and a preference of a man for that
attribute alone, never exilted out of the imaginations of enthu
fiallic writers.
From the DAILY ADVERTISER.
Sketch of the " PHILOSOPHY of HOUSE KEEPING."
Addrcjfcd by Doflor Mitchell to Miss S .
IN many parts of the country, bread of a bad quality is
so commonly eaten in families, that it seems furpriling why the
people do not learn the art of making it better. The grand faults
are two—j. In manufacturing the flour, which must
necefTavily he bad* if the wheat is foul, the millstones illy fct, or
the bran imptirfe£lly boulted out. 2. In makinc the bread,
where the best flour may be lpoiled by laziness in kneading, by
lack of fixed air, and by an halt heated oven.
When I was engaged theother day in taking care ofmyharveft,
I put into my mouth a few grains of wheat and chewed them ; 3s I
ground them to pieces between my teeth, the pulp, stirred about
by the motion ot my jaws, and mixed with the Ipiitle was made
to separate into three different parts : at firft a subtle powder was
disengaged from the mass, and diffufed through the fluid, tinging it
with a white hue, and when left at roft, falling to the bottom in
the form ofJlarch : after this lb me scaly husks were set loose, that
were taftelels and harfti, and of the outer covering of
the feeds, being evidently the bran ; and lastly, a quantity of dough
was left behind, which was thick, viscid, ropy, tough, and elailic,
and by drying became gluey, hard and brittle, consisting of pajlc,
or the glutinous part of the meal. I persuaded myielf that this
analysis was a fairone, and that for these experiments the human
mouth was preferable to all theartificial chemical apparatus in the
world. Thus it appeared that wheat, the grain affording the best
bread, consisted of Jlarch, bran and fajle.
But here you will be ready to alk, what a young lady has to do
with the analysis of wheat and chemical experiments ? Have a
little patience and you shall be informed. It may soon happen
that you will become the mistress of a family, and then may find
it conlilUnt both with and prudence to have an eye to
domestic affairs.. You may perhaps at that time recollect with
some degree of fatisfa&ion, these hints, calculated to assist you in
providing wholesome food for your h.oufehold» and in preserving
the serenity of your temper, in spite of the mifcondu& of Bakers,
The fault of the lirlt class, that is, in Ihe manufacturing of floui
must be prevented by the farmer and miller, chaff fl>ould be remov
ed by the fan ; duff Dy winnowing, and cockle, drips, rye See. by
(kreening ; besides, I have remarked at the Albion mills near Lon
don, that wheat to be made perfectly clean, is bruffied, washed and
kijr> dried. The operations of grinding and boulting make fine
the parts, them mechanically together, and separate the brai
from the Jlarch and pajle.
As to the faults of the second class, that is of making the bread
you will naturally be led by the principles laid down, to avoid
them. Hence may be afligned the reason why biscuit and unle
venpd bread of all forts, made by mixture with water alone, is fc
dry, hard and solid ; because the paste throughout the mass when
moistened, attra&s the starch, ana on the evaporation of the wa
ter, they bind and cement more firmly together. In like man
ner you can explain why they ought to be kneaded ; to the end
that the two ingredients now joined with water may be brought
into chemical union, and be more intimately blended together.
And hence it may be understood why some bread after baking,
ffiortly becomes ill tailed, and on breaking exhibits {lender threads
reaching from piece to like cobwebs ; becatvfe through de
ficient kneading, theftarch is not well incorporated with the paste,
which remaining in considerable masses by itfelf throughout a
moist loaf soon ferments and spoils. Why are barm, yeast, leaver
and other like substances necessary to raise fermentation in bread i
It is not necessary that bread undergo fermentation in order to
be good, but it is fimplyrequifitethat a quantity of fixed air ftiould
be extricated to raise and puff it up; this divides and parts affun
der the dough, and renders it porous and foft, prevents exceflivc
toughness and hardness, and makes the bread cafy to be broken,
cut and eaten; further, fixed air, although a poison, when appli
ed to the organs of smell and respiration,is an agreeable ftimulous
when taken into the stomach, and may operate when an ingredient
in bread, just as it does in porter and other malt liquors. What
good does pot-ash do in cakes? Pot-ash contains a'great portion
of fixed air, which is fct at liberty by the heat necelfary to bake
the cake, and therefore pot-ash fupercedes the use of fermenting
mixtures.—How is the water of the Saratoga spring ufeful ? In
the fame manner, the water decomposed by the heat, lets go the
fixed air, which insinuates itfelf into part of the bread and caufea
it to be light and spungy. For what reason are holes pricked in
to loaves of bread ? The heat of the oven not only sets free a large
quantity of fixed air, but also greatly rarifics it ; if therefore there
is no outlet given to it,the loaf would beburft in an unsightly man
ner, or an exienfive blister would be formed beneath the uppei
crust, to the damage of the bread. Why is a moderate degree of
heat necessary to prepare bread for the oven ? The component
parts of bread as has been said ought to ast upon each other and
become chemically aflimilated, and there can be no chemical ac
tion of bodies without heat. Whence does it happen that bread
made of Cornell and the branny part of wheat is so course, fc
apt to crumble, and so destitute of nourishment ? Pure bran con
tains very little more of nutricious matter thau saw-dust, on which
account it becomes fit to be eaten only in proportion to the quanti
ty of ft arch and paste mixed with it; but these are chiefly fifted
out when Cornell is manufactured ; therefore bread mad of such
matter must be defe&ive in finenefs, cohesion and nutriment. To
what is it owing then that other kinds of grain, although capable
of being made intobread, fall fo'far short of wheat in goodness ?
The general cause of this seems to be that Indain-corn, barley,
rice, oats and buck-wheat have too fmajl a proportion of pajle in
their composition, and consist. almost. wholly of bran andJlarch ;
now when the bran comes to be feparated,and the starch left alone,
it is not to be wondered at, that the bread made of it (hould be in
ferior in quality, ftnee it is destitute of that capital ingredient, the
pajle. It is not so necessary to employ fixed air or fermentation
in these kinds of bread, but it will answer to bake them imme
diately into cakes occasionally : The journey-cakes and buck
wheat cakes of America will do tolerable well without, but are
preferable with fixed air. The common use of oat and barley
meal in this form, has occasioned Scotland to be emphatically
called 44 The Land of Cakes." Rye approaches nearer to wheat,
and requires almost the fame management. Can lint-feed be
wrought into good bread ? No, becaufc it is composed chiefly of
bran, mucilage and oil. Are potatoes capable of being worked
into bread of the best quality ? No, for they consist mostly of
zuatcr and Jlaich\ there is nopajlein them ; yet by proper manage
ment they may be baked into brown cakes like caffada. Peas af
ford meal ; can they be conveniently made into bread ? The ce
lebrated profeffor Heme of the univerfuy of Edinburgh, told me
that since his time, the poor boors of North-Britain used to make
most of their bread from peas ; but this pra&ice has much declined
jjnee the introduaion of the potatoe. If the purest and best
flour contains the greatest quantity of nutritious matter in any
given bulk, must it not follow that for family uses, the best flour
is thechcapeft A learned and ingenious gentleman, with whom
I talked on this iubjeft not long ago, warmly contended that it
was so, and his reasoning was exceedingly plausible and fpec.ous ;
" If, said he, one cwt. of wheaten flour cost twenty-four fhil
lmgs, it contains nouriftimcnt as fix, and although Indian meal
may be purchased for twelve shillings the hundred, it does not af
ford nutriment as three, therefore although an equal weight of
maize may be bought with half the money, yet it does not yield
halt the quantity of nutritious matter that wheat does ; sod be
ing ufeful only in proportion to the nouriftiment derived from it
the richer the food, the less will fuffice ; consequently wheat, with
difcreet management, will go farther than com, and be cheapdt
to support a family upon. But the reasoning if true in fpecula
tioo will certainly not be true in praft.ee. Xt i s vain to think
that men will be confined to a ftnftly necessary allowance ot bread
when the tempting morsels lie! before them ; they eat not barely
to allay hunger s but to gratify their palate ; nothing i s more eom
befusrTen?t T" T™ * W ° ° r tlmeS M mUch as woul( l
r 1 PP ° rt th f, m ; even among servants and laborers
foi e ofaH l ° * con ft d erabl C degree m
lpite ot all your endeavors to prevent it- ind if U
variable rule in lioufe keeping that food of the belt A/Wj'-f
Regardless thereof Cbffitourifcm^
workman without theor.zin £ ou the matter at all. will Iwallow a
larger quantity of a wheat, a loaf, an Ind ar. dnmr>] ur
fufterno Mjury by the redundancy The (late of the que i», o °\"f
then lie thus: The human ftornacn requires* hulk of f I "
three, and this even of maize'is enough to fatisl'y iiunu-r •°K *
wheat, 011 account of its preferable' taste and finer look' it™ '
receive the proportion of fix ; now, if themaje as three
triment enough, the surplus in the wheat as fix, is 'dear J'"'
Therelore -here can fee.ningly no doubt remain 'that the colrf'
kinds of bread are not only in appearance but in reality then, (I
cheap and economical—l prcfum - vou will not wonder 1
in this epillle, my attention has been turned to dame Ce
rather than to inafter Cupid and his mama, when you U J| tn
the Roman adage, without Certs and Bacchus,Vctv i rcoffl „ J7
bly frigid and lijdtfs. Moreover, ssDr Franklin has beautifc
plnloiophifei on the cmurs, and Mr. IJrydone on the ,
of ladies garments. 1 thought myfelf highly excufeabic iW
example of fucli great men in attempting the elucidation l of ml
tiler important object of female attention. I am, with &-
HUMANITY.
RULES of the Philadelphia Dispensary, forth,,,,
dical relief of the poor. Inflituttd April !2) '
ift. EACH lady or gentleman, who pays aana
ally into the hands of the treasurer one guinea
'hall be intitled to the privilege of havi,, ff tWo '
patients atone time, under the care of the di r
penfary j those who pay annually two gui nfas '
shall have four, and so on in the fame propor.'
tion: and those who fubfcribc ten guineas a
once, {hall be intitled, during life, to thepriv>
lege of having two patients attended at onetime
by the physicians of the dispensary.
2d. A board, consisting of twelve manage!?
fha.ll be annually elected on the firft Mondayia
January, by a majority of the contributors. Votes
may be given at all elections, either in pert®
or by proxy. Five managers shall conftituteaqjj.
rum. Their business lhall be to provide mcii
cines for the sick, and to regulate all affairs it
lative to the institution.
3d. Sixattending, and fonr confuting pliyfiri.
ans ond surgeons, an apothccary, and a treasurer
of the dispensary, shall be annually elected ky
the managers of the institution.
4th. The physicians and surgeons in ordinary
shall regularly attend at the dispensary on Mon
days, Wednesdays, and Fridays, from 12 to I
o'clock ; And such patients as are unabletogoa
broad on dispensary days, shall be regularly vis
!ted at their refpedtive places of abode.
jth. Every cafe shall be duly attended, whether
acute, chronic, surgical, or obstetrical, if recom
mended by a contributor in a written note ad
drefled to the attending physicians, agreeablyto
the firft rule. The attending physicians and sur
geons shall have a right to apply for advice and
alfiftance to the consulting physicians and sur
geons, when they think proper, in all difficultand
extraordinary cases.
6th. The apothecary shall reftde at the dispen
sary. His business shall be to compound andde
liver medicines ; to keep an exadt account of the,
names, places of abode, diseases, times ofad
mifiion, discharge, See. of the patients, for v.hich
he shall receive a salary of per annum-
Officers for 1 789.
Managers. Right Rev. Dr. Wm. White, Mi.
Thomas Clifford, Samuel Powell, Esq. Rev. Dr.
George Duffield, Henry Hill, Esq. Samuel Milts,
Esq. Lawrence Seckel, Esq. Mr. Samuel Plea
fants, Mr. Thomas Franklin, Rev. Dr. Rob.
Blackwell, Rev. Dr. Henry Helmuth, George
Meade, Esq.
Attending physicians and surgeons. Dr. Samuel
P. Griffiths, Dr. John Morris, Dr. Willi®
Clarkfon, Dr. Caspar Wiftar, Dr. Michael Leibe,
Dr. Nicholas B. Waters.
Consulting physicians and surgeons. Dr. John
Jones, Dr. VVm. Shippen, jun. Dr. Adam KuH
Dr. Benjamin Rush.
Treasurer. Mr. John Clifford.
Apothecary. Mr. vVilliam Forreft.
By the following returns of patients admitted,
cured Sec. since the institution of the dispensary,
to the 1 jth December, 1788, the publie will he
enabled to form a judgment of its utility.
From April 12, to December 12. 1786-
Patients admitted 719 —Cured 562 —Died 32
Relieved 33 —Discharged disorderly 7—Remo'-
ed to the hospital and house of employment 1--
Discharged incurable I—Remaining under care
82 71 9
From December 12, 1786, to December I, i 73 .
Patients admitted 1647 —Cured 1297 —Died
—Relieved 131 —Difchargcd disorderly I\—
moved to the hospital and house of employm" 1
13 —Remaining under care 12c- 1647- .
From December 1, 1787, to December 1, '7 •
Patients admitted 1 596 —Cured 1294 —Dea 1
—Relieved 84 —Discharged disorderly '
moved to the hospital and house of employ® 16 '
6—Remaining under care 97- j
Besides which 1280 patients have been admi^
from December 1, 1788, toAuguft t, 17®9' . j
tkj number of patients who have been atten „
under the care of the dispensary, since its
institution in April 1 786, to the present B® '
FIVE THOUSAND TWO HUNDRED AW
FORTY-TWO.
Published by order of the board of ,lian ?;-nn
WILLIAM WHITE, THOMAS CLIFFCHW
GEORGE DUFFIELD, SAMUEL POWELL
Published by JOHN FEN NO, No. 9,
Lanf., near the Ofwcgo-Market, New-Yosk.—[3"°