r /"
S s' * fX's* '*+> s£ sY /*nJ $ >(/<' *Ls /4 /**> -%T" X,'
v «s ■ (<■' i *<? v A'ttj iPi I- t';/ s i
v i/D*Z'V - y4-|'*' ! >'>'Vs^%- / ?' ; ' 4 ;:> '•• *.-''<
■[No. XXXI.]
-j- E "j* ABL ET. No. XXXI.
a fhereisno natural reason why youth may not ac
■iirefuch habits as will bejl prunots their honor and
f' /// when they "re advanced in life. —But there
"a reason in the nature of things why a child badly
clucited Jhould not make a good man."
THE reasoning, that has been applied, in
some of the preceding numbers, to li
terature, will equally hold good with refpert to
business. It is no doubt a common error in this
country that men are not suitably educated for
thcbulinefs they are to follow. Many persons,
whofc circumstances require them to purine lome
occupation or profeffion, are qualified for none.
Nothing is wore evident than that habits of
idlcnefe anddilfipation in youth are incompati
ble with a love of industry and economy in any
subsequent period. For this reason, parents
should be careful to cultivate in their children a
love of application and frugality before years of
manhood*.* It strikes the eye of even a careless
traveller through this country that estates are
feldrim preserved in the fame family for more
than two generations. By a suitable pre
caution in the mode of education, estates
mijht not only be preserved, but encreafcd
through a long line of dependents. Each fuc-,
ceilbr would improve upon the plans and exam
ples that had been left him, and parents might
anticipate the pleafurethat their children, with
out the aid of entailment, would hold fall their
patrimonial inheritance.
1 Pleasure may be indulged to a certain extent,
without becoming a ruling paflion. It may be
kept subservient to business ; and when confined
within proper reltridtions, it may have a ufeful
effect. The children of rich parents are encou
raged so far in the gratification ol their wi/hes,
that a love of idlenels and dillipation becomes ha
bitual. This indulgence is given under the idea
of acquiring fafhiouable accomplishments. Young
men arc allowed to run such a career, that they
acquire so strong an attachment to amufenicnts
and expences, as cannot be laid aside, when bu
siness and economy bccome indifpenfible. It is
easy to perceive that such an education is not
calculated to make men accumulate or even to
five property ; but to squander what is commit
ted to their hands.
In a country where the great bulk of the inha
bitants mull earn their own subsistence, it can
hardly be proper to borrow modes of education
from a people, where few are cducatedin habits
of pleasure and expence, bnt those who are ei
ther bom to fortunes, or will be provided with
elevated employments. It is of public advantage
that opulent men rtiould flatter a considerable
proportion of their income among the various
occupations and trades that fill up society. But
it can be of no utility for persons to become ha
bituated to a train of expences, which they will
sooner or later be obliged to discontinue from a
deficiency of property. The principles of edu
cation in every country ihould be specially ac
commodated to the probable circumstances of the
general run of the inhabitants.
SKETCH OF THE POLITICAL STATE OF AMERICA.
OF all the fubjefts upon which the human
judgment can be exercised there is none which so
nmch demands that its principles ihould be de
duced from facft, and be /auctioned by experience
as Commerce."
As among those causes which operated in pro
ducing the late extraordinary revolution in out
government, the want of an adequate power tc
conduct, on general principles, the commercial
interests of this country was probably the mod
efficient, we proceed to examine those grounds on
which to place our future Commerce, so as to re
alize the expectations we have formed, and pro
mote our real prosperity and welfare. It i 3 by
fomefuppofeu that Commerce ought to be free and
unreftraiiied—not fubjetfi to any public exaiftions
or duties, and that infuoh a state it will ever find
its own "level, and be led by interest into its pro
pet channels : However benevolent the idea, this
opinion niuft have been prematurely suggested,
an d cannot be fnpported without the afi'eut of all
nations—for while restrictions are practised by
any,a principle of felf defence must render similar
Mpofuionj neceflary with others, to effedl apro
pcr reciprocity between them : But the necelfity
'•rajfing a revenue to government from this pro
ductive source, abftraOted from other confidera
forms an argument against the idea of a
commerce, altogether free—and I conccive that
c c merchant may be retrained, and trade not
materially injured—for why may not a limitation
some of the natural rights of men herein be
cqoally productive of general advantage, as in a
W E D N D S-D A Y, July 29, 17^9.
variety of ocher positions, where it is sanctioned
by every principle of good government ? Perhaps
by a due attention to the subject, the danger of
licentiousness, without such regulations, is here
to be peculiarly expected. As America in the pre
sent united state of her government afl'umes an e
qual rank among the other nations of the world,
iheir critical attention will be directed to all her
public movements, while her own future fafety
and happiness may be materially effected by the
early part of her administration : It is therefore
of importance that we should nicely weigh the
ends we have in view, and ascertain the general
expediency and tendency of ourplans of internal
policy, or foreign negociation : It may rot be
here amiss to suggest a few observations relative
to the principle of difcriinination in our trade
laws, though no eflential benefit could be expect
ed from that which was proposed—yet the princi
ple is I think supported by every consideration of
found policy—is conformable to the practice of
other trading countries, and if not expressly, is
conftrucftively implied by our exifling commer
cial treaties—nor does it hold out the idea of re
venge or refentment,which ought ev£r to be depre
cated as of an injurious tendency when dictating ei
ther private or public measures—but felf-intereft,
the prevailing principle of every nation, strong
ly urges the propriety of a difcriinination ; nor
will the benevolent feelings, or kind willies of
those nations who at present bar us from every
kind of intercourse with them, but that which is
ruinous to ourselves, be found to produce that
mutual compromise which promises mutual bene
fit, while we tamely allow them every advantage
of our trade without any return : It is alked will
you risque a commercial war with Great Britain ?
will you consent to forfeit your future claim on
the credit of her merchants ? I answer, that we
will like her, ground a navigation acft on the basis
of our own interell—we will, like her, become
our own carriers—we will prohibit the introduc
tion of liei* manufactures, to the encouragement
of our own—we will prohibit from exportation
to her ports our ashes, flax-feed, and other ma
terials eflential to her manufactures : London lhall
be no longer the great entrepot of our tobacco,
rice, &c. for the consumption of half Europe—no
longer fliall theirvefTels bring us rum, taking in
return provisions and lumber, for the supply of
their Weft Indies orNova-Scotia pofleflions—while
their procurators and our regilters of deeds and
mortgages would be the principal fufFerers by the
lofsof credit from their merchants : If Great-Bri
tain can import her tobacco, rice, &c. on equal
terms from the Brazils or the Indies—can obtain
equally good ashes, or flax-feed from the North of
Europe, or find there so general and advantage
ous a consumption of her manufactures—if her
Weft-Indies can be as cheaply supplied with pro
visions from Ireland—lumber and flour from her
Nova-Scotia and Canada dominions, she may not
consent to open a more liberal trade , but if this,
as I presume, is not the cafe, /he will be disposed
to meet us in d commercial contract, founded on a
more perfect Veciprocity than now exists between
us. A further examination of this subject shall be
attended to, and a fubftltute for our present chan
nel of trade explored. AMERtCANUS.
ORIGINAL SPECIMENS of ELOQUENCE.
[Continued from our last.]
AFTER the fever at points in difcuflion had keen
adjujled, the boundaries ascertained, and the Treaty
figiied on both parts; the following SPEECHES were
delivered by ,
Tuskegatahee.
" I am not a Chief, but willfpeakfor my Coun
try. I shall always pay great regard to what I
have heard respecting the Treaty, as well what
may be sent us hereafter by Congress ; and, as 1
am within the limits of the United States, I shall
always expect their protection and assistance.—
Our Younw Men and Warriors have heard what
has palled? I expect, as our boundaries are as
certained, Congress may be informed of them :
and that, as Peace is now firmly established, and
we are all friends, we may be allowed to hunt on
each other's lands without molcltation. On my
part, being in Peace and Friendship with you, I
shall feel myfelf fafe wherever 1 go. Many of
your people on Cumberland and Kentucky lose
their horses in our lands, and should we find them,
I wish Col. Martin to receive them."
Nowota.
u I am fond to hear the talks of the beloved
MenofCongrefs ; andof ours. You,Commiffion
ers ! remember the Talks ; and I shall always en
deavour to support the peace and friendfhip now
established. I remember your talks by Col. Mar
tin and I promifecl to be attached to America :
but until the present, I was afraid to be in your
Country. lam now perfectly happy, flnce you
are to protect us. Your prifonear Chickaman
ga, I will deliver you.—r'ormeriy Capt. Cainuie
ron saw jultice done to us in our land—he is
gone—arid I now depend on the Coimninioncrs.
if any thing rests with me to llrengthTii our friend -
•hip, I will faithfully execute it. T u ar<: no-u our
Protectors. When I go and tell to those of
our People, who could not come to hear your talks,
what I have seen and heard—they will rejoice.—
1 have heard your declarations of a deiire to do us
any service in your power, 1 believe you, and in.
confidence lhall relt happy."
The Commijfioncrs spoke :
" WE will give you provisions lor the road and
wilh you may be happy. We will lend up to Cou
grefs all our talks."
The Talk Elders to the late Agent to the
Cherokees.
" Broth er !
" WE have been long acquainted with you, and
know you to be our friend. But what is the rea
son Congress has not moved those people from our
lands before now ? You was one of the beloved
Men that spoke for Congress at Keowee, three
years ago. Youthen said the People should move
off in fix moons from that time—but near forty
moons are past, aud they are not gone yet !
" We well remember whenever we are invited
into a treaty (as obferveJ by us at that time) and
bounds are fixed,that the White People fettle much
fafter on our lands, than they did before. It mult
certainly be the cafe, " thev think we will not
break the pcace directly, and they will ftreiigtlien.
theinfelves and keep the lands.' You know this
to be the cafe. You told us at the Treaty, "if
any White People fettled on our Lands, we might
do as we pleafedwith them."
" They come and fettle close to our towns, and
fonie of the Chicamoga People come (contrary to
our desire) and killed a family.—Then the white
People came, and drove us out of our towns, and
killed some of our beloved Men, and fevcral Wo
men, and little Children—although we could not
help what the Chicamoga People does. You knew
that-well. We arc now like Wolves, rangingabout
the woods to get something to eat. Nothi ■ o
TO BE SEEN IN OUR TOWNS, BUT BONES, WEEDS,
andgrass. Butfor all this, wewiii lye stilt.,
and we will not do any more mischief, if
the White People -will fop. JAM BUT A BOY—
but my eyes arc open—and wherever i turn;
them, mar)- youn% vien turn -with them. I here
give you this String of White Beads, as a to!;eri
of my friendlhip to you. Also I present you with
a string inthe nameof your brother John Watts—
he fays he holds you fall by the hand : but he can
not fee you yet, as he is in great trouble about his
Uncle.
" The Corn-Tassf.l will come to your house
towards the Spring, and It ay a great while with
you, as it will be very hungry times with him
then." (To be continued.)
FOREIGN AND COMESTIC MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES.
LONDON, MAY 3.
Some days ago Dr. Willis had the honor of
waiting upon his Majesty ; when he entered the
apartment he found the King looking over some
papers, on which he made a Ihew of retiring.
" Stop, Doflor, fays the King —I have been only
looking over some accounts, which J have now dove
with ; but there is one account which I am afraid it
will never be in my power to fettle —my great obliga
tions to you."—The Doctor's expectations may
therefore be great.
Progrcfs of English Arts. The Amphitheatre
on which Humphreys and Mendozo are to box,
is entirely finiflied ; —it forms an o<Ttagon and
will contain two thofand persons ; but there are
only fifteen hundred tickets worked off, at half
a guinea each.
Such were the (hows, that erll in Rome,
Prefag'd her r?pid, final doom ;
What Rome now is, shall Britain be,
For fccues like theft, unnerve the free.
May 12. One objection to the New Govern
ment in America, is the expence of it. But a gen
tleman from that country afl'ures us, that the an
nual expence of the President and Congress will
not be so much as is annually allowed here to the
Prince of Wales. Surely this people mult be poor
indeed—or iheir complaints are groundless.
[The annual income of the Prir.ee of IV ales is 90,000 /.
[ierliug—4oo,ooo dollars —And at the rates agreed,
to by Congress, supposing that body to Jit the whole
year round, the falar'tes of the President, Vice-Pre-
Cident, Senate, Reprefentathes, Secretaries of Depart
ments, and the judiciary, would not amount to near
two-thirds the sum allowed to one lav'Jb young fellow.
—260,000 dollars being the extent oj it, from an ac
curate calculation.']Ext raff of a letter from Smyrna, dated Dec. 2.
" I have seen Mr. \V haley, and two other gen
tlemen. They are going to Jerusalem, to decide
a bet of 30,0001. which Mr. \V haley has laid with
the Duke of Leinfter, Lord Dkogheda, and
some others. They go from hence to Cyprus,
thence to Jaffa, and from that to Jerusalem ; and
return to mis place by Aleppo. 1 hey intend af
terwards going to Constantinople, to take a trip
up to the islack Sea, visit the Archipelago, land
at Meflina, view Etna, and the other parts of Si
cily, and return to England tlirjugh Italy, Swit
zerland, and France."
Miss Pukney was certainly offered to Mr. Pitt,
by her father. The terms were these : Mr.Pulte
ney would forego his whole fortune, except five
tlioufand pounds, pr. an. to the young couple,
provided he was created Earl of Bath, with re
mainder to Mr. Pitt's children. By this marriage
the Minister would have enjoyed a neat 25,000k
pr. annum.
Miss Pulteney, it isnowfaid, is to be married to
the Duke of M-arlborough's eldeltfon.
Mr. Burke, in the High Court of Parliament,
Westminster-Hall, on the 21ft of April lall, com
menting upon the grievances, as Hated by Mr.
Hastings, in his petition, of having already beer,
put to 50,000k expense, observes as follows; " bu,
with what confidence, with what frontlefs auda
city is such a llateinent made, at a time, when 1
pledged myfelf to prove that he has received in
one lingle solitary bribe not only the amount of
this expence, but of all possible expence of this
trial ! 1 know too, that the prisoner has obtained
testimonials, written firft in English, turned after
wards into the Persian language, re-translated in
to fcinglilh, and which certainly had obtained the
signatures of many refpetftable names in India !
But if all the natural influence of government were
lobe done away, if all the gratitude of individuals
were to be obliterated, and all the deep-rooted
fears of the inhabitants removed, before such of
fences can be established, then, from this period,
delinquency is fafe, atid prosecution fraitlefs.
RAIN WATER CISTERNS.
Mr. Marshal, in his Rural Economy of Yorkjbire,
makes mention of an ingenious device employed
by the inhabitants of the vale of Pickering, for
making rain-water answer thepurpofesof domes
tic economy, viz. by mak'ng deep cijlerns under
ground. But this, we beg leave to observe, is not
peculiar to this diftritf, or to England. In Tuf.
cany, near Sienna, where all the spring-water has
an unwholesome impregnation, it is the practice
of all families to have these under ground cisterns,
where they preserve the rain water. We have
been informed by an ingenious gentleman wh 1
resides in this country that the root of every house
v catches as much rain water as all the family wants,
that they have two cisterns, one to catch the fii ft
shower, which washes the roof clean, and when
this is done, they turn the water into a second
cistern, where the purest water for drinking, &c.
is preserved. This gentleman further informed
us, that their cisterns were from 20 to 30 feet be
low the furface, and that the water in them was
more pure, transparent, and fpirity, than the belt
fpiing-water he ever tailed. To many of our
readers, this information may be acceptable.
[.Englijh paper: received in the lajl vefjel, as late
as May 19, Jlate in general, That
IN ENGLAND—
Hasting's trial engrofles the attention of the
public—more especially as his friends and himfelf,
by a petition to the Parliament, have endeavored
»to get Mr. Burke impeached for having ailerted
something in the trial, irrelative to the charges
exhibited againlt him.—ln the Commons this pe
tition has been debated three days, and a Com
mittee appointed to fearcli for precedents. The
Ministry join Hastings—but it is supposed to be
a fetch of the Delinquent, to put an end to the
trial.
IN FRANCE—aII eyes are directed to the States
General, which aflembled April 27, at Versailles
where every accommodation is provided for them
—and where gallaries are ereifted to accommodate
3000 persons—who are admitted by tickets—there
are other aalleri.es to accommodate the people.
IN RUSSlA—every preparation is making for
carrying on the war with the utmost vigour.
This power has 200,000 men ready to take the field
IN GERMANY—the like exertions are making
with a large army. The Emperor's convalescence
adding frefh vigour to them.
SWEDEN—arming with spirit against Russia :
hut liitening with some attention to a proposal
for peace, made by rhe King of Prussia.
PRUSSIA—on the watch—with a large army,
ready for immediate a<stion.
POLAND—guaranteed in her neutrality, by
Russia and Pruiiia.
THE TURKS arming with vigour, determined
that the crefent shall not be humbled to the cross ;
or that the whim of the European Potentates lliall
be law for the Sublime Porte.
On the whole it appears, that the " dogs of
war" will again be let loose—and that the late
ceflation from havock, has only fhnrpened their
appetite for blood.]
rARIS, (France) APRIL 23.
The principal Instructions to the Deputies to the
Statu General, are—A fixed Revenue tor the King ;
Refponjibility of the Itiinijlers ; —A itate of the na
tional debt; —A fund for the payment of part, and
for a national fecutity for the reit ; A p. nodical
Ajfembly of the State* ; The LIBERTY Of THE
PRESS ; —Perfonal freedom, and an aflurance of
property ; Turnpikes for the repair of the high
ways ; Habeas Corpus, and TRIAL BY JURY ; —
Abolition of curtom duties, for goods brought
from one province to another ; —The receipt of
taxes by means less burthenfome and oppreJfive
than by the Farmers-General ; —Annihilation 01
tliofe small offices by which the privilege and
rank of Nobility are now obtained ; and—An e
qual participation of all taxes.
APRIL 30.
His Most CHRISTIAN MAJESTY'S SPEECH
to the States-General.
" Verfaiiles, April 27, 1789.
" THE DAY, Gentlemen, for which my heart
waited with emotion is at last arrived, and 1 fee
nyfelf surrounded by the Representatives of ana-
Lion, over which I elteem it a glory to reign. A
long interval has elapsed since an ailembly of the
itaies General has been held ; and although con
vocations of this kind seemed in some measure to
have fallen into disuse, I did not hesitate to re
eltablifh a custom, which may impart additional
vigour, and open new sources of happiness to the
kingdom.
" The national debt, which was immense at
my accession to the throne, has increased under
my reign : an expenlive, but honorable war has
been the cause of it ; and an augmentation of im
ports was the natural confeqnence. A general
alarm, with an ardent wish for innovations, pervad
ed the public mind, and an union of wife and mo
derate councils mull avert the threatened danger.
It is with confidence, gentlemen, I have convened
you ; and I fee with pleasure that this confidence
is juftified by the disposition the two firft orders
nave shewn, in renouncing their pecuniary exemp
tions. The hopes I have conceived of feeing all
. be Orders united in sentiment, and co-operating
with me to the general welfare of the State, will
not be disappointed. I have ordered some consi
derable retrenchments of expense, and shall pe
ruse with solicitous attention every fuggeltion that
shall be presented to me on that fubjc.fi : But
notwithflanding the resources -which the Irrtleji eco
nomy can introduce, I am afraid, gentlemen, I shall
not be able to relieve my fubjefls as fpeedil* as 1 could
v,ijh ; the real situation of the finances fill belaid
before you, gentlemen ; and when yott have ex
amined them, 1 am certain that you will propose
the molt efficacious means of establishing perma
nent order in them, and restoring the public cre
dit. 1 his grand and salutary work, which will
insure happiness to the whole kingdom within,
and promote its consequence abroad, will be the
firft objecft of ourferious attention. The people's
minds are in a state of perturbation, but an atiem
bly of the Representatives will only listen to the
voice of wisdom. You must be sensible, gentle
men, that on several recent occasions, prudence
has not been ftriftly adhered to ; but the predo
minant spirit of your deliberations will corres
pond with the true sentiments of a generous na
tion, the character of which has always been a
firm attachment to her Monarchs ; *nd I, 011 my
part, will banish every otheh refledion. lam con
scious of, and fatisfied with, the authority and
power which a just and upright King will be ever
able to maintain over an enlightened and a loyal
people. To promote their happiness will, as it
ought to do, form the principal felicity of my life,
and they have a right to expert the *arineft zeal,
the mort tender interefl for the public weal, and
whatever, in Ihort, may be hoped for from a So
vereign, who feels himfelf the firft and truest
friend of his lubjects, and who considers his af
recftion for them as his greateil glory.
" May unanimity, gentlemen, reign in thisAf
fembly and this epoch become memorable for
laying the foundation of the happiness and prof
pei ity of the kingdom ! It is what my heart longs
to fee, and the molt ardent of all my wishes it
is the reward I am entitled ro,forthe uprightness
° m y'. ntent i° ns > and my sincere attachment to
my fubjeifts.
" My keeper of the Seals will more diffufely
explain riiydefires, and I have ordered the Direc
tor-General of the Finances to lay proper and ex
adt accounts of them before you."
[YrJ The magnanimous policy conspicuous in the above Speech
the openness, candor, and paternal affection which breathes in
very line of it, contrasted with the edicts of former Kings of the
fame nation, evince the hberahty, enlightened policy and fvb er ior
wisdom of the present era—THE ERA OF FREEDOM nr
brTth RS £ L ÜBERTY 'In Western tofld,
broke the chams which held mankind in fcrv;tudc— and havincr
fixed her temple in our favoured country, (he is fpreadine her fa
lutary reign throughout the world. Europe bows to h«fr sway :
Hct-fire e'er. Fr ak c z presumes to feel,
And half unsheathes the PatriotJleel,
Enough the power to dismay,
That dare to violate the Laves,
Which vindicate her Jacred cause,
Or guard the People's rights, or re,gn the Sovereign's sway.
The wife and magnanimous monarch of Franrp . l
voice of Liber ty, fees that in restoring htfXft'so the
freemen, his kingdom wUI be Orengthencd-hL glory and haopt
ness promoted—and his authority and power continued,,*
How tar the trial of Hast.ks, lor his tyrannies in the F. ail
tend to extend ,he sway of Liberty to Xfu-or w« ffl
late ettort to emancipate the tons ot Africa from their chair ,
meet with, time only can determine. The attempt is K ,
auspicious and augurs much good.] [Majjadufus Craft .Tj''
BOSTON, JULY 22, 1789.
Extracts from letters received from the/ate Dr T
so m, of London, to his friend in this tvwii
" I received with great pleaiure thy letter
containing an exti'ad: of another from Genera!
Washington,in which that Hero, who efi'eCte l
with little bloodlhed, the greateit revolutioni»
History, breathes the fentiinents of true philan
thropy."
"AT our ensuing anniversary, I fl la ll pennit
Dr. Hawes to peruse, and communicate the con
tents to our members, which do you equal honor
and at the fame time refled: credit upou our info,
ftution.— It is the glorious principle of gen
uine cliriftianity, to breathe univet falcharity-Lia
every clime, and under every revolution of human
affairs, it dictates the fame language—Humanity i n
the molt enlarged sense."
" I have not the honor of knowing, or corres
ponding with Gen. W a s h i n gto n, but if any o p.
portunity offers, might I presume upon communi
cating to him the cordial approbation his humane
sentiments have imprefled upon me ? A warrior
cloathed with humanity and wisdom, is thefvm
bol of Minerva, and few have united them. Tn
ren i had courage and some degree of humanity;
but he it was that burnt the Palatinate, and had the
Nero-like pleasure of feing thirteen cities inflames.
Scirio's humanity was ltained with the deftrnc
tion of Carthage—and Rome fell for want of a rival.
Alexander the Great, and the modern Fredii.
1c k had their ltains of cruelty. Butyour HERO
without the HClor of Cincinnati, was obeyed!
conquered, and retired, without the foul stain of
blood ; and now having no occalion for the £gis
of Minerva, he cheriihes the influence ofherwif
dom.
" London, March 7, 1789.
" AS I have very lately answered thy obliging
letter, containing an extract from Gen. Wash
ington's, I have nothing particular to add, fur
ther than apologetic." " 1 shewed Dr. Hawes
thy letter, who made an extradl, and printed it
for the use merely of* the Directors of the Humane
Society. It was received, certainly, with great
refpedt, and did credit to the writer, but at the
<ame time, it is not agreeable to me to print any
thing without permiliionof the writer."
" OUR anniversary dinner was attended by a
bout 500. In my address to those gentlemen, is
efficto, being Treafiirer, I introduced the extract
from Gen. VV ashing to n's letter as part of my
speech, which was received with acclamation and
plaudits.—Lord Fi> E,the Bishop of st. David's,
Lord Stam/ord, and Lord Willouchey he
Broke, were present.
" London, March 31, 1759.
Thefollowing is an extraCifrom Gen. Washing ton's
letter.
" MOUNT VERNON, JUNE 22, I7SB.
" \ OUR refpedtable favor, covering a recent
publication of the proceedings of the Humane So
ciety, has, within a few days pall, been put into
my hands.
" I observe, with lingular fatisfacftion, the ca
ses in which your benevolent institution has been
instrumental in recalling some of our fellow-crea
tures (as it were) from beyond the gates of eter
nity, and has given occasion for the hearts of pa
rents and friends to leap for joy. The provilion
made for Ihip-wrecked mariners is also highlyef
timable in the view of every philanthropic mind,
and greatly consolatory to that fufrering part ot
the community. These things will draw upon
you the blellings of those who were nigli to per
ilh. These works of charity and goodwillto
wards men, refle<ft, in my estimation, great lultre
upon the authors, and presage an era of Hill fa
ther improvements.
" HOW PITIFUL, IN THE EYE OF REASON
AND RELIGION, IS THAT FALSE AMBITION'
WHICH DESOLATES THE WORLD WITH
FIRE AND SWORD FOR THE PURPOSES OF
CONQUEST AND FAME, WHEN COMPARED
TO THE MILDER VIRTUES OF MAKINGOUR
NEIGHBOURS AND OUR FELLOW MEN AS
HAPPY AS THEIR FRAIL CONDITIONS, AND
PERISHABLE NATURES WILL PERMITTHEM
TO BE."
PHILADELPHIA, JULY 24.
In the begining of the late revolution we were
repeatedly told, that our vacant lands would ae
fray all the expences of the war. Congress are
wifely about to realize that declara ion by open
ing a land-office for the sale of their western ter
ritories. They will in a short time fink the o
meftic debt of the United States, and thereby
prevent our entailing a heavy and ruinous i»' er
eft upon our posterity. Pennsylvania has'" 11
nearly a million of pounds of her propoi'tj 011
the national debt,by the sale of her back lands, a"
had the late funding lyftem been delayed one) e "or had it included certificates of only one
'i°f Option, the land-oflice would probably have
fallowed up the greateit part of oar proportioi
'Ckl'ohktons, fays a correfpondcnt, to tfic wages of the mem
f ron-M-ci's, are not well founded. They aie no greUer dim
* C e dunug the late war. Let it be remembered that they
thc j fit one half, or one third of the year,—that most o
"Lquifh all private and profefiional pursuits, jnd that nv-
of themwill carry their families with them to the pace where
Coparefs ref'des.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES.
. a ctfor establishing an Executive Depart
ment, to be denominated the Department of Fo
reign Affairs.
BE it enabled by the Senate and Honfe of Repre
fntiti'J" °f the United States of America in Congress
ikvilltd, That there (hall be an executive depart
ent to'be denominated the department of so
"jan affaire, and that there (hall be a principal
officer therein, to be called the Secretary for the
department of foreign affairs, who (hall perform
and execute such duties as (hall, from time to time,
te enjoined 011 or entrusted to him by the Presi
dent of the United States, agreeably to the Con
(litution, relative to correspondences, commillions,
orinftruftions, to or with public ministers or con
fills from the United States, or to negociations
with public ministers from foreign States orPrin
ccs or to memorials or other applications from
foreign public ministers, or other foreigners, or
to fucli other matters refpecfiing foreign affairs,
as the President of the United States (hall assign
to the said department : And furthermore, that
the said principal officer (hall conduct the business
ofthefaid department in such manner as the Pre
sident of the United States (hall, from time to
time, order or inftruift.
And be it further enacted, That there (hall be, in
the said department, an inferior oflicer, to be ap
pointed by the said principal officer, and to be
employed therein as hefhalldeem proper, and to
becalledthc chief clerk in the department of fo
reign affairs, and who, whenever the said princi
pal officer (hall be removed from office by the Pre
sident of the United States, or in any other cafe
of vacancy, (hall, during such vacancy, have the
charge and custody of all records, books, and
papers appertaining to the said department.
And be it further enacted, That the said princi
palofficer,and every other person to be appointed
oremployed in the said department, (hall, before
he enters 011 the execution of his office or employ
ment, take an oath or affirmation, well and faith
fully to cxecute the trust committed to him.
And be it further enacted, That the Secretary for
thedepartment of foreign affairs, to be appointed
inconsequence of this act, (hall forthwith after
his appointment, be entitled to have the custody
and charge of all records, books, and papers in
the office of Secretary for the department of fo
reign affairs, heretofore eftabliflied by the United
States in Congress aflembled.
Frederick A. Muhlenberg, Speaker
of the Honfe of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of the United States,
and President of the Senate.
APPROVED, JULY 27, I 789.
G.WASHINGTON, President oj the United States.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STA TES.
MONDAY, JULY 27, I 789.
The engrofled bill for fettling accounts be
tween the United States and individual States was
read, and the blanks filled.
To the chief Clerk to the commiflioners, 600
dollars a year was allowed, and 400 dollars to
'he other Clerks.
A meflage from the Supreme Executive, was
received by Mr. Secretary Lear, with the bill
for establishing an executive department, to be
denominated the Department of Foreign Affairs ;
towhich The President had affixed his sig
nature.
The memorial of Nathaniel Gorhani, praying,
Aat Congress would take measures for determin
ing the principles of the cession of the western
territory from the State of New-York totlieUni-
previous to running the line of juris
diction and property between that State and in
dividuals 011 the one part, and the United States
°nthe other part—which was presented on Fri
°aylaft, was this day taken up, and on motion
tor the commitment of the fame, a lengthy debate
fnfued :—The motion was supported by Mr.
Sedgwick, Mr. Benson, Mr. Gerry, Mr. Lau
kance and Mr. Sherman ; and opposed by Mr.
, Cot t and Mr. Boudi not —on the question be
ln£ taken it was carried in the affiinai ive, and the
® e mori;\l committed to Mefl'rs. Huntington, Jack-
J<"> and Lee.
In committee of the whole House, on the or
der of the day—
Mr. Boudinot in the chair—
Hie report of the committee appointed io con
,ef with a committee of the Senate, in preparing
rules to be eftabliflied between the two
houses for the enrollment, prefevation, attefta
:oiiand publication of ihe acts of Congress, and
to regulate the mode of presenting addrefles,
md o Jier acts to The President of the United
states, was taken up.
On motion of Mr. Sedgwick, the following
/efolution ivas agreed to, viz. That it is the opi
nion of this committee, afelectcommittee ought
co be appointed, to prepaie and report a bill,
o provide,without eitablilhing .mew department,
for the fafe keeping of the acts, records, ami
great seal of the United States—for the publica
tion, preservation and authentication of the acfts
of Congrefs—for establishing the fees of office,
and prescribing the forms of commiffioiis, &c.
—This resolution being added to the report,
and the discussion being finilhed, the committee
role, and the chairman reported the fame with the
amendments,which were acceded to by the House:
A committee consisting of Mr. Sedgwick, Mr. Mat -
thews and Mr. Wynkoop, was appointed agreeably
to said resolution. Adjourned
TUESDAY, JULY 2?, I 789.
Mr. Vin in g, of the committee on amendments
to the Constitution, brought in a report, which
was read, and laid on the table.
Upon motion of Mr. Gerry, it was voted that
100 copies be struck off for the accommodation of
the members.
A mellage from the Senate was received by their
Secretary, informing the Hon. House, that they
had concurred with amendments in the bill to re
gulate the collection of duties imposed on goods,
wares, andinerchandize imported into the United
States.—These amendments were immediately
taken into consideration, and acceded to by the
House.
The bill for registering and clearing veflels,
and for regulating the coalting trade, was read a
l'econd time—and on motion the House resolved
itfelf into a committee of the whole, for the dis
cussion of the fame—the committee made confi
derable progress in the bill, but the time did not
admit of finifhing it—they therefore rose, and
the House Adjourned.
NEIV-YORK, JULY 29, 1789.
The President of the United States was so
well as to receive visits of compliment from many
official characters and citizens yesterday ; but
we learn, that, until his strength shall be more
fully restored, he proposes to receive them only
once a week, and that on I'uefiUys.
Mrs. Washington, we are informed, will
be at home every Friday, at eight o'clock, P. M.
co fee company.
On Saturday last the Molt Hon. Rufus King,
and on Monday the Molt Hon. Philip Schuy
ler, took their feats in the Congress of the Uni
ted States, as Senators from the <diltri<st of New-
York.
We hear, that the Supreme Executive of the
United States, in conf'equence of the resignation
of Chnrles Tliompfon, Esq. has committed the
records and papers of rhe late Congress, and the
Great Seal of the United btates, to the cultody
ofRoGER Alden, Esq. till further orders.
Extratt t>J a letter fromConneßicut, July, 1789.
" You inform me that the probable plan ot ap
pointments will be—firft, to continue those alrea
dy in otfice in the several States, who have given
indubitable proof of fidelity and capacity, except
ing in instances where superior political, and of
ficial abilities may point them out, as proper fub
jecfts of promotion —fccondly, that those charac
ters of the late American army, who may be
qualified, who merit much, but from the unfa
vorable circumstances ot the country, have never
been suitably rewarded,will next be noticed—and
thirdly, that persons who in civil life have evin
ced a firm attachment to the cause of their coun
try in all the different views in which it has been
placed ; more especially the advocates and friends
of the new constitution, whose characT;eis and
qualifications entitle them to patronage, will also
receive attention. .
" This arrangement meets my approbation en
tirely ; but at the fame time great caution is re
quisite to avoid efl'ential mistakes —in the firft
place, it is not difficult for persons in office who
are unworthy of, and incompetent to the places
they hold, to procure factitious testimonials in
their favor.
" Itmuft be granted, also, that many persons
mistake their own talents—and men who have
done well in one situation, may be totally unqua
lified for others : There is a fort of claim which
military characters possess, that may unduly bias
the judgment —and it is possible, that some candi
dates for office cannot with propriety, iwholly im
pute their present deprefled circumstances to the
deficiencies of their country.
" The third description affords the greateit
range for the felecftion of competent public offi
cers—and from this, all other considerations be
incr equal, no doubt a preference will be given
to those who have supported the Conlhtution,
ill appointments which have for their object the
promotion of the public interest, upon the prin
ciples of that Constitution."
Every plealing anticipation is entertained with
refpecft to the nominations to office that are im
mediately to be made.— The hackneyed prove; b,
that " kiffinggoes by favor," will be found to
tally inapplicable on'tliis occasion ; an inflexible
independency of determination having always
distinguished the appointments of the late Com*
mander in Chief of the American army—there is
every reason to expeift that real abilities and clefert
will be the only influencing confederations*
A correfponclent observes, that however plausi
ble the idea, in an economical view, of prevelit
ingthe encreafe of offices by jumbling a great va
riety of heterogeneous business in one department,
maybe, yet it will be found that luch arrange
ments mult be made, to prevent confufion, as will
in the ifl'ue be as expenlive as openly establishing
so many diftindl offices.
A correspondent observes upon the fubjeA 01
Titles, that a total renunciation of them involves
an idea, that is levelled not only at the exifter.ee
of government, but of all society whatever.—So
ciety supposes order—order,grades and dijlinfl ions
—Mankind haveneveryetdevifed any other mode
of designating tliefe diftincftions than by titles.
To suppose therefore that they are unneceflary,
is to suppose that human nature poflefles an in
tuitive faculty of discerning merit,& of ascertain
ing its various degrees, so as never to fail oi .pon
taneoufly paying it dae refpetfl, without any ex
ternal indication whatever —the absurdity of this
is too grofsfor reflection.
Extract of a letter from a young gentleman at
Academy, to his father in C- 1.
Honored Sir, .
" I ihink it my juty to give you some injubt
table evidence of my progress in literachure ; when
I firftcameto this academy, scarce an hour in the
day pafl'ed without some Jlrittchures on my mode
of speaking—but by perpechuel hints from every
quarter, my flckupidity was overcome, and my at
tention so quickened, that at length 1 have be
come so habichuated to the proper found of du, tu,
&c. that the old fafhioned pronunciation founds
quite unnatchural—having surmounted this diffi
culty, in speaking the following words, I no lon
ger make the least mistake, viz. virchue, nachure,
fuchure, individual, ins atchuation, machurate, fachu
rate, forchune, Jhootable, Jhuprenie, fhuperior, chufe
day, and many others —there is a further improve
ment talked of, and that is to pronounce debts,
jets, See. but how this will fucccedis uncertain.
" I hope my improvements will receive your
approbation, and am your jutifvl son,
Timothy Ton-
DEATHS.
At Conjlartinople, (Tt-hey) April 7, 1789, Achmet IV. Grand
to the Ottoman Entire, aged 64 —ajtrr reigning 45 1 tars. It
. fuppcftd he was poisoned by some of the party in favor of the contin
uation of the uiar with Rufjia. to which he reluflaviitly corfented. And ,
1 is thought his death will put an end to all ideas oj peace for some time.
Prince Simlin. his nephew, it is said, succeeds him.
In Germany, the Prince of Gelnhausen, the lajt Protejunt
Prince of the Palatine family.
At Newport, Cast. Dav id Gardiner, dgei 48.
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK.
Sunday Sloop Delight, Campbell, Newfoundland, 25 days
Sloop John, Gilbert, Kingston, 21 days
Tnefday Sloop Hancock, 'Brown, Rhode-Island, 2 days
Sloop Rambler, Peterfon, do. 2 days
Brig Nelly, Buchannan, Martha Brae, 21 days
MR. FENNO, * ,
IN the translation of an Ordinance oj the Gov. of Hifpaniola, pub
!-[hed in your lajl, the words of the preamble, " with his Majc/ly's gocd
pleasure," frem to imply that the King has consented to it: The mean
ing oj the words tc Sous le bon plaifir de fa Majffte fj, that in cafe
the King (hould consent, then the law should have its elTea. The
expression is conditional, whereas in the English translation itfeems to
he pojitice, and maymiflead your readers. caution.
[fir|TWe conceive that theTrarflator's idea as conveyed in the sentence
alluded to, exaflly coincides with the writer's of the above : The words
" provisionally enacted," fuficiently indicate that the Ordinance is
fubjeß to the King's revifon.]
PRICE CURRENT NEW-YORK.
lamaica Spirits, - 5.f6
Antigua Rum, - - - 57-
St. Croix, do. - - , - - 4/8-
Country, do. - *■ 2 /*o»
MolalTes, - - - 2 / 2 - a 2 /°-
Brandy, - 5j6- a S.fa*
Geneva, - 5/3-
Do. in cases, - 2 p/
Muscovado Sugar, - - 50f- a 7 *Jf
Loaf, do. - 1/3-
Lump, do. - - V l £-
Pepper, «■ * « 2 /&-
Pimento, - - - ifg. a 2f.
Chocolate, - - - 1/2.
Cocoa, - - - a
Coffee* -» - 1/0 • a 1/9-
Indigo, (Carolina) - - 4/ a 6/«
Rice, - * 23/ a 24/
Superfine Flour, - - - 4,57*
Common do. - - 4 2 /6- a 43[/*
Rye do. 26f. a 27/
Indian Meal, - 18/ I
Rye, - - 4/9- P r - bu st-
Corn, (Southern) - 3/9- * 4./•
Do. (Northern,)* - 4_/~3- a 4/6-
Beef, firft quality, - - 48/ a 50/ I
Second quality, - - 41/6-
Pork, firft quality, - - 81/6.
Sccond quality, - - 76/6.
Hams, - a 7^?-
Carolina Tobacco, - - a 5 :
Virginia ——, - - \d. a $d.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
[Continued J rom our
IT is pretended by some, that a sovereignty
in a Tingle ail'eivibly, annually eletfted, is theonly
one in which there is any responsibility for the
exercise of power. In the mixed government we
contend for, theminifters, atleaft for the execu
tive power, are responsible for every instance of
the exercise of it ; and if they difpo'fe of a single
commiifion by corruption, they are responsible to
a houfeof representatives, who may, by impeach
ment, make them responsible before a senate,
where they may be accused, tried, condemned,
and puriifhed, by independent judges. But in
a single sovereign aflembly, each member, at the
end of his year, is only responsible to his constitu
ents ; and the majority of members who have
been of one party, and carried all before them,
are to be responsible only to their condiments,
not to the conftituenrs of the minority who have
been overborne, injured, and plundered. And
who are these constituents to whom the majority
are accountable ? Those very persons, to gratify
whom they have prostituted the honours, rewards,
wealth, and jullice of the state. These, instead
of punifhirig will applaud ; instead of dif'carding,
will re-eledl, with still greater eclat,and a more
numerous majority ; for the losing cause will be
deferred by numbers : and this will be done in
hopes of having Itill more injuflice done, Itill
more honours and profits divided among theni
felves, to the exclusion and mortification of the
minority. It is then astonishing that such a fun
pie government should be preferred to a mixed
one, by any raijnal creature, on the score of re
sponsibility. There is, in short, no pollible way
of defending the minority, in such a government,
from the tyranny of the majority, but by giving
the former a negative on the latter, the molt ab"
surd institution that ever took place among men.
As the major may bear all polfible relations of
proportion to the minor part, it may be fifty-one
agairift forty-nine in an allembly of an hundred,
or it may be ninety-nine against one only : it be
comes therefore neceflary to give the negative to
the minority, in all cases, though it be ever so
small. Every member must poflefs it, or he can
never be secure that himfelf and his constituents
ihall not be facrificcd by all the reft. This is the
true ground and original of the liberum veto in
Poland ; but the consequence has been ruin to
that noble but ill-constituted republic. One fool,
or one knave, one member of the diet, which is
a single sovereign aflembly, bribed by an intrigu
ing ambaflador of some foreign power, has pre
vented ineafures the most eflential to the defence,
fafety, and existence of the nation. Hence hu
miliations and partitions ! This also is the rea
son on which is founded the law of the United
Netherlands, that all the seven provinces must be
unanimous in the aflembly of the States General ;
and all the cities and other voting bodies in the
aflemblies of the separate states. Having 110 fuf
ficient checks in their uncouth constitution, nor
any mediating power poflefled of the whole exe
cutive, they have been driven to demand unani
mity instead of a balance : and this must be d >ne
in every government of a single aflembly, or the
majority will instantly oppress the minority.
But what kind of government would that be in
the United States of America, or anyone of them,
that fliould require unanimity, or allow of the li
berum veto ? It is fufficieiit to ask the queltion,
for every man will answer it alike.
FINANCIAL MEMENTO^
From the FEDERAL GAZETTE.
I HAVE had my attention seriously engaged
by the publication of the Estimate of the Supplies
requisite for the United States in the year 1 7SO.
011 investigating this report of a committee, it
appears that the annual demands 011 the Union
for the civil lift expenditures,the instalments due
011 foreign loans, and the interest on the foreign
and domestic debt, amount to 3,207,096 21-90
Deduct instalments a'pd pre
mium on the loan 490,962 8} 90
2,716,133 24-90
which is the clear amount of the annual contri
butions for the support of government —for the
payment of the instalments is a liquidation of
so much of the capital of the foreign debt, which
by being exiinguifhed, will require a proportion
ally less sum to be raised in subsequent years for
interest;
As for the various arrearages,which the report
takes notice of, and which form the balance of
the sum total, they are not to be considered as an
annual demand, but will probably be consolidat
ed with the capital of the debt* and the interest
thereon be alone required.
So far from room for despondency in the minds
of the good people of these States, by such a re
presentation of their affairs, it exhibits the most
flattering and favorable -profpedts. The annual
requisitions will not amount to a dollar per head,
£ilimatingthe population .of the .Union at three
millions : A fir.all demand, in exchange for such
invaluable bleltings as peace, liberty and inde
pendence ; and which mult be lightly felt in a
ountry that can afford to pay three {hillings per
day lor a common laborer.
It is not probably a fourth of the contributions
that we Ihould have been compelled to turnilh
towards our proportion of the national debt ot
Great Britain, if we s .ad remained under the
domination of that haughty and exacting nation.
But letus enquire what is the relative iituation
of other countries, with reipeCt to quantum of
public contributions.
Great Britain under the operation of a govern
ment, that it mull be confelled pays pointed at
tention to her agricultural, commercial and ma.
nufaifturing pursuits, flourilhes, notwithllanding
an accumulation of public debt, that demands
an annual supply of lixteen millions sterling, to
fatisfy its interelt,and support her other expences.
But the people are so little opprelled by these
demands, that tkey are enabled, with ease, to
raifc by taxation a fufticient sum to constitute a
linking fund,which in the course of the lalt year
extingui/hed two millions of the capital of the
national debt.
Calculating on eight milions of inhabitants
in Great Britain, there will be apportioned to
each individual, as an annual contribution, forty
Ih'llings llerling, which is betwixt eight and
nine dollars per head.—What a flattering conli
deration for the citizens of the United States,
arises out of the comparative iituation of the
two countries !—But what renders the reflection
ltill more pleasing, is, that Great Britain may
be deemed Itationary, if not declining, in her
population, and consequent resources. But the
United States present an unbounded field for pro
grellive population ; and the encrcafe of inhabi
tants will ease the burthen of the debt, by addi
tional numbers participating in the support ofits
weight.
This augmentation does not only arise from
natural increase in a country firuated like Ameri
ca, where the means of fubliftence aie so easily
to be procured—but likewise from the rapid emi
gration that will neceilarily take place, from the
fupeiior encouragement that a government, so
well conllituted to favor civil and religious liber
ty, and protect the rights of property, will offer.
Such emigrations are usually, accompanied with
conliderable acquisitions of property, which add
to the general Itock of the community.
When the United States of America have ar
ranged their financial fj Item, and made ample
provision for their exilling claims, the progrellivc
increase of the taxes, arising from various cau
ses, joined to the sales of the western teritory,
will form a conliderable surplus, that may be
applied to the gradual and speedy extinction of
the capital of the public debt.
The beneficial cffetfts of the funding system,
when founded on proper principles, will be felt
through all clafles of the community—as it will
throw into circulation the capital of the domellic
debt, increase thereby the general ltock of the
country, and facilitate the various purposes of
alienation.
It a comparative view was formed of the pub
lic debts of France, Spain, or Holland, the Uni
ted States would find, that it would induce are
fult much more favorable than even that with
Great Britain.
This communication of Congress c.'.n therefore
give no cause of exultation to the enemies of the
government. Foreign nations inuft refpeifi the
resources of a country, abounding in such pow
erful means, and so unfettered by its present en
gagements. A FRIEND to the UNION.
ADDRESS 10 THE PRESIDENT.
RDENTON, (N. C.) lOLY9.
The following ADDRESS of the Gai'fTvorand Council of this State,
has lately been prrj /.trd to Ceneru! IVAShINQTQN, President of the
United States : Jo which he has been plc.ifed to return the Anjwcr
thereunto subjoined.
To his Excellency GEORGE WASHINGTON, Efquiie, Prefi
> dent of the United Stales.
S 1 R,
AJMIDST the congratulations which surround you from all
quarters, WE, lire Governor and Council of the Stat:: of North-
Carolina, beg 1 ave to offer ours, with equal fmcerity and ferven
cy with any which can be presented to you. Though this-St. te
be not yet a member of the Union under the new. form of govern
ment, we look forward with the pleasing hope-os its shortly be
coming inch ; and in the mean time confidtr ourselves bound ;n
■ common interefl end affection with the other States* waiting
on'y for the happy event of such a't rations b< ing proposed as
will remove the apprehenficns of many of' the.good c itizens of
th s State, tor those libei ties for which they have fought and fuf
fer din common with others. This happy event, we doubt not
will be accelerated by your Excellency's appointment to the firft
office in the Union, fm:e we are well allured the fame greatnek
of ir.jod* which 111 all scenes has so eminently charaftu riled your
Excellency, will induce you to advifeevery measure calculated to
compofepaity diviiionSj.and to abate anv animofit* that maybe ex
cited by a mereaiffeience in opinion. Your Excellency will con
derfhowever others may f.rget)how extremely difficult it is to unite
ail the people of a.great country in one common sentiment upon
lmolt any political much Jess upon a new form of govern
m\nt n \ ateriall y from one they have been accufl.omed to.
and will therefore rather be disposed to rejoice that so much has
been effected, than regret thai more could not all at once be ac
compli (bed. We ft nceniv.believe America is the only country 11
tie woi Id where luch a deliberate change of government could
P'ace under any circumilances whatever.
hope .your Exce'llcncy will pardon the liberty.we take in
wriiin® so particularly on this fubjefl ; tut this Srate, however it
tnav liitrer in any political opinions with the other States, cordial
ly jo ns wit.i them in sentiments of the utmoli gratitude and ve-
ration for those diftinjui-thrd ta!:r. ssrd thdt Hiuftrioui
winch we fee! a pride ia' faying we believe, under God, have be"'
'he principal mcaju of prticiving the liberty and pTocurinnh
independence of our country. We cannot help confide™?°o'
Sir,in some measure, as the father of it, and hope to experience'th'
good effetts of that confidence you fojnltlv have acquired, in an
abatement ol the party spirit whichjo much endangers a Uniono
which the fafety and happiness ol America ran alone befounded
May that Union, at a Ihnrt distance of lime,be asperfeftar.d more"
fafc than ever! And in the mean while, mav the State of NortH
Carolina be confidrred. as it truly rleferves to be, attached wit',
equal warmth any State in the Union,to the true interest, prof,
perity, and glory of America, differing onlv in some particulars
in opinion as to the nit ans of promoting them !
SAMUEL JOHNSON.
By order and on behalf of the Council,
Jamls Iredell, President.
By order, William JohnJton DawL
May to, 1789. Clerk Council.
To the CovEiisoi and Council of the State of North-Carolina.
Gentlemen,
IT was fcorcely possible for any address to have given me great
er plealure than that which.l have jufl received from you; because
I conlider it not only demonstrative of your approbation of m-'
conduct in acceptingthe fitft office inthe union,but altoindicative
of the good dilpotitions of the citizens of your State towards their
lifter Slates, and of the probability of their fpccdily acceding to
tne new general government.
In juftfiidtion of the opinion which you are pleased to express
of my readinefsto advifc every' rneafure calculated to compose
' party divilions, and to abate any animofitv that may be excited
' by mere difference of opinion,' I take the liberty of referring
y u to the fcntiments communicated by ine, to the two Houfesot
Congress. On this occalion, lam ltkewife happy in being able to
add the ftroogeft alfurances, that I entertain a well grounded ex
pectation that nothing will be wanting on the part of the different
branches ol the general government to render the union asperietf,
and more late than ever it has bfeo.
A difference of opinion ou points is not to be imputed
to freemen as a fault; lince it is to be prefumcd that they are all
afiuated by an equally laudable and sacred regard for the liberties
ol then country. II the mind is so formed in different perfonsas
to consider the lame object to be somewhat different in its nature
and consequences, as it happeni to be placed in different points oj
view, and if the oldelt, the ablcft, and the mod virtuous flatefmea
have olten differed in judgment as to the best forms of govern
ment*—we ought, indeed, rather to reioicethat so much has been
cff'lttd, than to icgret that more could not all at once bcac.om.
pliHicd.
Giatified by the favorable fentimerits which are evinced in your
addrefi to me, und impressed with an idea that the citizens of your
State are sincerely attached to the interest, the prosperity, and the
glory ol America, I molt carneitly implore the divine benedidioa
and guidance"in the councils which are Ihortlyto be taken by their
delegates on a fubjett of the most momentous consequence, I
mean the political relation which is to subsist herealter, between
the State of North-Carolina, and the States now in union under
tJic new general government.
C. WASHINGTON.
New-York, June 19, 1789.
A SEW METHOD Of MAKING POTASH.
PUT your ashes into your fatts about four
inches deep, then put in flack lime about two
inches deep, then put in your aihes as ui'ual—
when begining to boil, put in about the bignefe
of an hen's egg of hog's fat every day when boil
ing, into each kettle, and skim your kettles once
a day, which will take of all the fat ; and when
drying clown your falts,throw in a piece of allum,
one ounce, and take great notice about yourfalts
fettling-»-when they once fettle, it will not be but
a few minutes before there will be a fmallcrufton
the top,but it w ill follow boilingup immediately,
—as soon as the boiling is all over the kettles,
then stir it until it leaves of at frying, then dip
it off into your coolers. The melting down is
accomplilhed in 45 minutes, that used to take four
or five hours.
From a VIRGINIA PAPER.
(Puhlijltei so authority.)
THE public are advertifed,that the French pack
et-boats, which had been suspended by order of
government, are lately re-eltablifhed—and that
from the 1 sth of March, 1789, a packet-bcat will
fail from the port of Bourdeaux, the 15th March,
1 sth May, 15th July, 15th September, 15th No
vember, and 15th January, in every year, which
will take charge of the letters and packets intend
ed to be sent to the United States of America.—
Tliefe veflels will arrive alternately at New-York
and at Norfolk, where they will deposit the mails
they bring, and take those intended for 1 ranee,
which they will convey directly to Bourdeaux.
On their departure from France, there will be
made out two lifts, the one addrelled to the Di
rector of the French poll at New-York, compre
hending all the letters directed to the States 01
New-Hamplliire,Mafiachufetts-Bay.llhode-Ill3na,
Connecticut, New-York, New-Jersey, Pennfyb 3 '
nia, and Delaware; the other addreflcd to ue
Vice-Consul of France in Virginia, containing th e
letters for Maryland, Virginia, North, and Sou
Carolina, and Georgia.
The fupei intendance of the packet bo®' s
Norfolk, being confined t<s Mr. Ofter, Vice-Con
ful of his Most Christian Majesty, letters 0
France, Englan 1, Germany, Holland, &c. &c.. WI
be received at his office, 011 payment of p° a S
to Bourdeaux. t
Na B. All letters sent by land, which are not
franked, will remain in the Poft-Office.
6 0 N M O T.
SOME days ago a gentlemen ot the order of Epicur
dining at a Friend's tabic, and was displaying some ver)
diriary fears of eating ; by way of apology, however, or tr.
ithe Lady of the house to help him so frequently, 7 ° i] V [hink
[nor madam, I am sorry to trouble you so often, but I rea 7
'i have loft the bottom of my stomach" —The aufwer w
" Upon my. honor. Sir, 1 have not found it." —-
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9,
Lane, near the OJivcgo-i-larket } New-York-' 13 c ''