; ( J
/"~"C
(rxmtft
[No. XXIV.]
THE TABLE T. No. XXIV.
■Xoadufion of the Letter began in the last number.J
t , Jfter the middle age of life, it is not probable a
man will find happiuefs in such oeyMs, as have be
'fore been unpleajantto him."
„ T DO not blame my situation, but my temper
I r or the difcontentinent I feel. My re#et
• all terminate in felf-difapprobation. I fuf-
Sded every enjoyment in my younger days
P"' I nl ight amass a fortune, with which I could
iicrience the delights of leisure and indulgence
"ft interruption. But lam now fatisfied that
Z only way H> be ha PPy in old a ? e is to , culti :
' e habits of innocent amusement m youth, and
roiafte enjoyment as we go along. By this means,
° need not in the latter part of lite counteract
the customs that have become familiar to us in
the former. . .
« My misfortune consists in having, m my ear
ly veals of mankind, rejee'led and despised the
nailing pleasures of the clay, that I might be more
completely prepared for an undilturbed indul
gence in future gratification. Sadly however am
1 deceived ! I can form no relish for fucli new ob
jects as my new situation presents.
« Leifureis dreadful; because I have hitherto
been intensely busy. Reading does not destroy
inch tedioufnefs ; because I have not formerly
been delighted with books. Conversation is un
interelling; becanfe I used to (hun it, in order to
follow my business. Rural occupations and scenes
captivate me not; because I did not fuffer my fell
to be pleased with them, when I was young.
" If I visit myneighbours and find how content
ed the v are, a tl how they envy my easy circum
stances, lam out of all patience with myfelf. It
is now the chief object of my care to impress on
the minds of my children the neceflity of habitu
ating themselves to love conversation ; to love in
nocent pall-time and amusement; to cherish an
inclination for books ; and indeed to raifean at
tachment to many other habits that are always
within the reach of every one, and which are in
offenlive ifnotinunediately ufeful. By this prac
tice of genuine philosophy, they become gradual
lyand fafely familiarized to enjoyments, ofwhich
they mean to participate more liberally,when ad
vance of fortune will permit, and an advance of
years will authorise.
" Fhofe who pass away life as they ought will
fuidall parts of it more equally pleasant than is
commonly imagined. The dilgulls and loss of
plealure attending old age are principally occa
lioned by improper habits and falfe hopes,that are
formed in our youthful days. Men begin a ca
reer of life which, they will tell you, is unplea
fantor perhaps vicious, resolving to lay aside their
vices or improve their pleasures at some future
time, when it is more convenient. Here lies the
mistake ; they are lb controuled by cuftoin that
they niuft end their days, as they began tliem ;
andconfequently they will not probably be hap
py and virtuous when they are old, if they were
not so, when they were young. Whenever we
fee an old man miserable, we must not of course
conclude that age is the cause of it, but mult at
tribute it to the prevalence of palt errors.
" I have never habituated myfelf to take latis
faCtion iu any thing but pursuits of business.
My activity in fomemeafurc fails me, and toil and
anxiety are .becoming insupportable ; but Hill I
can find no fabllitute that is not more dilagreea
ble. None ofthe habits of my youth are suitable
to carry with me into old age. The last periods
of my life will therefore yield me little consola
tion. Lvery man should accustom himfelftoen
joy the innocent pleasures that fall in his v ay, as
they present themselves, even if it a little inter
feres with acquisitions of property. I am far
from atlvifing aperfon to a course of extravagance
or dillipation, or to an indolent, vicious life ; but
there are many gratifications not incompatible
with virtue, and not materially detrimental to
interest. Men destined to hard labour have not
much occafioil for this precaution, as any change
ofcircuinftances with thein will be for the better,
lam speaking of those who are extensively enga
ged in profitable operations ; and who constantly
iubject themselves to felf denial, with a view, as
they fay, of enjo yinglife hereafter in greater per
fcftion. But let me tell them from experience
that no incident can afford tliem pleasure, that
counteracts their pall habits ; and that the true
? rt °f happinei's conlilts in innocently snatching
u, as we go along, from whatever offers. Those
who gain fatisfaction from anticipating happy
avs are in a fair way to disappointment. No
are happy toamind difqualified by old ha
ws fj 01n tailing such gratifications, as theprefent
period or present circumflances can afford."
m 1 le lc ader will determine forhimfelf whether
J a c ?" e rP°^ en t or my preacher has taken the
"eft fide ofthe question.
SATURDAY, July 4, 1789.
On the COIN of the UNITED STATES.
IF the unit dollar was made worth exactly 100
difmes of the value of" the English. half-pence,
it would be then sod. sterling—and sterling stand
ard is, according to Sir Isaac Newton (mailer of
the mint, in 1716) the standard of England,
France, Holland and Spain ; which I therefore
call the commercial standard, or the standard of
the commercial countries, which ought to be ob
served by us who are to trade chiefly with them.
Our Congress dollar has more of alloy than the
commercial standard, the gold has the fame al
loy : Yet one dollar has so little of alloy more
than sterling, that it is of less consequence than
the former deviation in the cent weighing but
IS7 I_ 2gr. of copper, when the English halfpence
is 166 gr. of copper. If one cent was 166 grains,
it would be equal to the English halfpence ; and
then 100 cents or halfpence making a dollar,
would give it the sterling value of sod. (or 10c
cents or half pence.) The division into tenths ol
account and coin, is wonderfully convenient. How
easy to multiply and divide 16849 cents by dots
alone—a dot rednces it to difmes and cents—ano
ther dot to dollars, &c. thus : 16. 8. 4., 9 are
eagles, dollars, &sc.
The coin of the United States reduced into ster
ling, (which is the standard finenefs of the great
commercial nations, France, Britain and Holland,
with whom wemuft traffic) would stand thus :
s. d. Sterling.
Mills. o 1-20
io Cent. o o 1-2
100 10 Di. 1 o 5
1000 100 »o | Dol. | 4 2
10000 | 1000 100 I to j Eag. 41 8
Monies of account are dollars, difmes, cents ;
and are wrote
Dol. di. cent.
463 9 8
689 6 4
"53 6 « , . .
But money of account may be kept 111 only
one column, that is in cents or mills ; which are
instantly thrown into other denominations by the
simple application of dots, thus—You receive 3
Eagles, 9 dollars, 7 cents—Enter those figures
in your book without any dot, when they will be
read 3907 cents, the cypher filling the place of
difmes ; or read it 3 eagles, 9 dollars, 7 cents ;
or 39 dollars, 7 cents.
Mills, cents and difmes in columns never have
more than one figure in the line ; for, asoftenas
they amount to 10, the tens are carried forward
and the unites are placed in the column. The
above table is of a dollar of the value of 5 od. al
though we arc to have dollars coined that are
fractional respeCting both English and trench
monies : J2d. 64-iooths do not answer exacftly to
livres, and less to sterling pence or shillings.
The Congress division of monies being in an
exacfl decimal method, admits of multiplication
and division by only placing dots or taking them
away. It is the quickest, most certain and easy
way of reduction, both for the learned and un
learned. Those who can read figures, may avail
themselves of the simple application of dots for
throwing Congress money from mills or cents
into dollars, difmes and cents, or into eagles, dol
lars, difmes, cents, and mills, thus—l46B9 cents
are changed into the liiger by
dots : A dot on the left of the unit's place gives
difmes and cents, 1468.9 ; another dot on the left
of the ten's place, gives dollars, difmes and cents
140.8.9. If eagles are 10 be paid, another dot on
the left of tin. hundred's place, give eagles, dol
lars, difmes and cents 14.6.8.9. — Tliefeare again
thrown into money of account by writing or
reading the figures without the dot for eagles,
146.8.9 ; or if your accounts are kept in only one
column, of ccnts, omit all the dots, 14689.
Interelt and commiHion how easily reckoned !
5 per cent. 011 the above sum of 146.8.9 or
14689, amounts to 7dol. 3di. 4cent. 45-100.
5
734<45. ~, . , . ,
The convenience would be great 111 having the
unit dollar at the value of scd. exactly : a cent
would then be a halfpenny fterling—lf the dol
lar be worth more or less than jod. equal to ico
cents, it will, without neceflity, fractions,
that will be inconvenient in exchanging. The
present declared dollar is worth 52d. 64100 of a
penny sterling. The value of gold and silver
coins is only to tlx; amount ot the fine metal.
Alloy is used onfy for the purpose of hardening
them, and is of y ety minute value when separa
ted ; it otherwise is a disgrace to those preci
ous metals. The Congress dollar contains 375
64-100 grains of fine silver, and 34 15-100 ol
copper. The orly standard Spanish dollar dilcov
ered by Sir Ifafcc Newton, is the old pillar piecc
of eight, wh" _h contains of fine silver 38? 72-100,
and of alloy 27J-100 grains, worth exactly
rPublifhed on Wediiefday a/id Saturday.]
I 53d. 87-100, but palled currently for J4d. —A
dollar of 358 i-xo and 29 35-1000 al
i loy, would be of the fame standard finenefs, and
worth jod. exatftly, and divides into tens, in c
ven numbers, without deviating from well known
monies of the foreigners, great iii commerce,
with whom we mult have Commerce even againlt
prejudices.—The dollar of J2d. 64-100 agrees,
nearly, with the livre ; 5 of them making such a
dollar within 1 4-100 of & penny, wheli the livre
is at iod. 1-2 sterling : And the dollar of jod. a
grees exaCtly with pence sterling ; which again ex
aft/yzgrees with cents : For, jod.being a dollar, 100
cents are jod. the one attends money that is per
manent, never varying—the other regards mo
ney that is less fixed. Monies that are the lcaft
fixed, are the molt suitable to gamesters and Iharp
ers ; such too are coins of inferior finenefs to the
standard of the great commercial nations ; be
it ever so (mail, it (lamps a stigma on it; clipc
coins are also the best creatures of those (harpers.
The debts and contracts among some
of people of the United States at present, gene
rally (land stated in sterling money, or in the cur
rent monies of the relpedtive States, under the
old denomination of pounds, (hillings, and pence :
Some however are in dollais—that is Spanilh.
pieces" of tight of the value of J4d. sterling.
Many millions of accounts of those debts are,
henceforward, to be reduced from those
minationsto Congrels dollars, difmes and cents fai
as to preserve the value of the debts. How is this
last to be done ? Will it be as readily perform
ed as if the Congress dollars were of the exact
value of jod. and the cent of the exa»il value of
a halfpenny sterling ?
Our citizens well know what pence sterling are,
that J4 of them are equal to a Spanilh piece of
eight, and 108 halfpence are also of that value;
and the people of every State know the par of
exchange between the dollar in sterling and in
the currency of the State—that the dollar of J4d.
sterling is, in the middle States, equal to'9od.
currency, See.—So that if the Congress dollar was
exa&ly worth jod. sterling, its cents Would be
equal to halfpence ; and all sterling debts thrown
into halfpence, are at once turned into Congress
money. An instance : A is to pay a debt, of
£.J4 6 8 sterling, in Congress money. Thac
sum contains 13040 pence, or 26080 halfpence,
that is cents ; which by dots are thrown into
260.d0. B.di. o.c.—lf a debt is in Currency.
£.90 II 1, of the United States, 7/6 the Spanilh
dollar, then by firft reducing into halfpence, and
fubftradting 2-Jths, you have 26080 cent ; /. e.
260.d01. 18.di. oc. equal to £.90 11 1 currency.
There maybeclearer and more concise methods ;
but, this is noted off hand.
It is not surprizing that objections fliould be
made by simple people, to the change of terms
from'£. 1. d. to Dol.difwes,cents —But,a(liiredly,the
divisions into tens (with those new terms) will
presently become familiar, and are the rnoft ex
cellent above those of all other nations, for rea
dy and corrccft reckoning, to the unlearned as
well as the learned. It is the molt natural and
harmonious division ever discovered. Some object
to the columns of account requisite for
separating Dol. dif. cents ; that inconvenience
will flow from the us« of three columns, they at
present using only two, for dollars and ninetieths ;
but,three columns they have been used to in £. d. s.
However, the Congress money admits of those
people, and all others, pleafuig themselves by a
choice of columns from 4 or J down to one : Of
which here follow specimens :
Eag. dol. dif. cent. mil.
64858
18369
12 1 o 8 7
ao 4 3 1 4 I
Dol. dif. cent. mil. Dol. dif. cent.
64 8 5 8 64 8 5
8369 836
,087 108
74 3 » 4 74 2 9
cents. mil s. cents.
6485 8 6485
836 9 836
108 7 108
! 743 1 1 4 7429
How plain and simple this last.—Dots will di
vide the sum as you please.
The eagle containing 10 dollars of jod. (fee
table) is worth 2 guineas, French or Englilh, and
rather more. The Englilh guinea, current at 21s.
iterl. is only worth 20s. Bd. or iod. according to
Sir Isaac Newton, who by the bye, aliens, that
the finenefs of French, Englilh and Dutch money,
is so nearly alike, that heconfiders it the fame in
them all, in standard goodness. Therefore fterl.
is a standard of the monies of the great commer
cial nations, and ought to be equalled, mo!t cx
attly, by the monies of the states.' B/SKJLICH OF THE POLITICAL STATE OF AMERICA.
Extended Empire, ].kc expanded gold,
Exchanges tohd ule, tor feeble fpl ndor."
HOWEVER opposed ic may be to the feelings
ana incereffcsof some individuals, ] am yet incli
ned to observe, that upon general principles, the
policy of emigrating to distant parts, from a coun
fiy, leit infufficiently stocked with people, to
answer the necellary demands arising in society,
cannot he easily jultified: Nor am 1 acquainted
with tne peculiar advantages which we are to de
rive from the prefeut rage for emigration so the
\\ eltern country, as a reimbursement of the valt
of its settlement ; but I presume these
(peculations will end 1 ke the Voyage of the shak
ing Quakers from one of the Eaftem States, who
piompted by holy zeal built a /hip to convey them
to Jerufalein,but eventually concluded to fend her
for a cargo ol rum to the Weft-Indies, as pronii
nlg the greatest profit. Though it Ihould be
granted that it is not altogether within the abili
ty of government to flop the delusive practice of
quitting habitations now unsettled, to visit regions
unexplored and unprotected ; yet there is an es
sential difference between a tacit connivance, and
an officious interposition to encourage such a plan.
I>. is added, that the irrefiflable ivipulfe of felfin
tereft, would prove superior to any attempts op
pofingfo strong a liobby-horfe ; but if some ac
counts lately had from Carthagena are to be re
lied on, little danger can arifc from giving full
.°pe to the operation of this irrefi [table principle,
in effecting those Utopian settlements. By an ex
press clauf'e of the National Conltitution, the re
publican form of government isguaranreed—and
the ellence and genuine principles of such a Go
vernment can be best supported within a fiiiall
compass, and where mutual interests are mutual
ly understood ; but when the territorial jurisdic
tion of a country is greatly extended, the emana
tions of power from its source becomes in the ex
ticinities proportionally weak and inefficient;
and must either, like the parts of the human sys
tem which are removed from the influence of the
blood expelled from the heart, end in their de
fection and final amputation; or if maintained, it
will be like the provinces of Rome by the tyran
ny of the Viceroys and consequent oppression of
the people ; and it will most probably be found
at some future period, that like the adder vivified
by the genial warmth of the fire, this country had
been cherished and reared to bite the hand of its
protector.
What a fad contrail does Spain now present to
her former fuuation, when flie flood foremo-ft
among the nations of Europe : and may we not
attribute this change to her rage for colonization,
and the miilaken policy of her government, in
encouraging it—Jn return for folTdgreatnefs and
refpcciability, sh e pofleffes tinfelljed pageantry and
glittering grandeur.
By ceding to the proposition that government
has no right to oppof'e by any legillative interfer
ence, tliis,ftrange Spirit for division and elope
ment which pei vades this cournrj-, would be vir
tually contradicting the praCticeof other nations,
and denying some of the eflential prerogatives
of government, of the firft importance to society.
The powet it must neceflarily poflefs to check the
jll-direCred pursuits and mistaken views of indi
viduals when militating with the general <rood
the power of preserving a due balancc between
the feveral 7 interests of a community, and of di
recting the operation of the labor and industry
smonga people into proper channels and for pub
lic benefit—the principle of felf defence, which
is superior to any other, is directly opposed to a
division of power in this- country—and though I
expert not the concurrent opinion of land-jobbers
monopolizers of the hard earned wages of the
poor fohlier, and other harpies upon the public
I must still maintain, that those hands who are
daily emigrating to distant places, being employ
ed in the various branches of agriculture, manu
factures and commerce 011 theatlantic shore would
add more to our national ftrength—more'eflica
cioufly afiiftin thedifcharge of our public debt
more completely cement our present union, and
prevent our future division and diflention, than
will result from any view of their present. pur
suits ; and it is in the power of government to
oppose their removal by making it their real in
terest to remain at home, it being a fancied in
terest which leads them abroad.
AMERIC A N U S.
NEW INVENTED LOOM.
Extract of a letter front Edinburgh, April 18.
" A loom of anew and very Sngular nature has
lately been invented and set to work at PaifW
on the principles of a model conftrucled some
time ago l>y Dr. J affray, with the improvements
that have since occurred to him and Mr. Barr. This
loom is to be driven by machinery, set in motion
by water, fleam, &c. and not only takes the cloth
from the lay with such regularity that no part oi
the web can have more wool driven into it or be
thicker than another ; but if a thread in the warp
breaks, the machine instantly stands still. It is
laid to be capable of weaving all kinds of cloth.
fromfilk to canvas ; and, if report be true, it is
so iiniple 111 its conftrudtion as not to colt more
than double tlie expenee of a common loom, while
it is so sweet in its motions, and er.fy to be mana
ged, that one man working awheel can set five or
fix oi them in motion, and an attentive boy or
girl may tie threads and change pirns to three, if
not four. '1 he web at present in the loom is a ten
hundred muffin. The beauty and regularity of
its fabric have given much fatisfadtion to those
gentlemen in G1 lfgow and Paisley, to whom spe
cimens ofit have been fnewn : and we may ven
ture to fay, that nothing hitherto devised to im
prove and extend the art of weaving, to add new
energy to the labor and ingenuity of the country,
and to give a decided command of market, ever
demanded a more serious attention from all con
cerned."
for the GLORIOUS ANNIVERSARY 0/ INDEPENDENCE.
''WAR s horrid founds rib more aflail our cars,
Elate with barb'rous hopes, or chill with fears;
Far from the States her threat'ning thunder roars,
\\ hile Heaven-born Pcace smiles round our tranquil fliores.
Clieer'd by her pre fence Commerce spreads the fail,
lorljkes the port and courts the favouring gale;
Exulting bears wliat distant lands produce,
And sports the varied treasure for our use.
Protected too from rapine, fee the swain,
Bears to hia growing itores the teeming grain;
joyful he takes what nature's bounty yields,
And sings contented in his uativtfields';
He knows no fear from stern oppreflion's dart,
I o damp the warm emotions of his heart.
Cherifli'd by Liberty, arour\d the land,
Content and Induftiy walk hand in hand,
Alike on all the heaven-born Goddess smiles,
The rich protects, the poor man's care beguiles ;
In every walk of life can spread a charm,
Kedrefs misfortune, and her sting disarm.
Thus to behold, mud warm each patriot breast,
The nation profp'rous, and the people blest.
O Liberty ! thou guardian of the State,
Eternal bit flings in thy presence wait ;
Unlike thetranfient flowers which fortune rears,
They ft ill improve and gather strength by years',
No despot here can force unwilling awe,
Spurn at control, or trample on the law ;
Before thy presence fee the tyrant flies,
And proud opprcflion hangs her head and dies!
Hail happy land'! where justice ever reigns,
Protests the weak, the lawlcfs hand restrains;
With foft'ring wtng secures the poor man's home,
And cheers alike thecottage and the dome.
Since then from Liberty our blessings flow,
Let's prize the source those blelftngs can bc'ftow;
Within our breasts her sacred altar rear,
And own her still the gift of Heaven mod dear.
Let us whilfl mern'ry dwells upon the day,
Which saw fair Freedom's form expiring lay
Revere the saving hand which bade her rife, '
And gild with radiant beams these Weftern'fkies!"
FOREIGN MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES
FRANKFORT, APRIL I.
We learn from Vienna, that the last division
of the Emperor s suite set off the 19th of March
for Pelt.
STAPLES, FEBRUARY 21.
We learn from Messina, that on the 7 th instant
at minutes after five, two fliocks of an earth
quake were felt there, the firft of which was ve
ry violent.
DENMARK, MARCH 31.
After the Iriih Captain O'Brien had been re
moved from the town-hall to the Citadal on Sa
turday night last, one of his accomplices, named
Scheel was taken ,hto custody. He is a native
of England, but had rcfided many years in Swe
den fins mart 011 whom were found many pa
pers relating to Benzenftierna, is confined in the
Citadel. The pnfoners are daily interrogated
in the l.oufe of the Governor of the Citadel and
when the examinations are concluded, acommif
oTnders PP ° imedfor proceedLl g a g ainfl the
PARIS, APRIL 2.
Though every thing is quiet refpecfting polki
cal affairs, the dearnefs of bread has riven oc
casion to very violent tumults in some of the
southern province?. At Aix, Marseilles and Tou
lon, the riots have been carried to a great height.
1- ri C p 0 T Montfera, who had rendered
himfelf obnoxious to the people, was obliged to
letire to his house : Here he was pursued aud be
sieged ; and unfortunately firing on tlje multi
tude by which a man was killed, he was at
length dragged from Ins house, and literally torn
in pieces by the populace. The Bishop of Sifte
ron narrowly efcapetlwith his life, but was so
ill-treated that, t is supposed he will not long
i urvive On the other hand, the Count de Mira S
beau (the Wilkes of the people) has been every
where conducted in triumph. On Ins entry into
a town where he was elected a deputy for the
Tlnid Eflate, the windows were let at two gui
neas, for feeing the procession; not only tl.e
liorfes, but the wheels also were takeiiffrom liis
SE™ 1 he T
r\ cS J' P ? T J r RSBURG H > " ARCH 24.
On Sunday last the bafliav, of Oczakow, with
a numerous suit, was presented to her Imperial
Majesty, and very graciously received.
MANHEIM, APRIL
An account is just received of the death of the
Prince of Birkenfield Gelnhaufen the last Pro
tefbant Prince of the Palentine Faiu^ly.
VIENNA, APR it 4.
The Emperor, who had been lone tW
posed, is almost compleatly recovered "
Jpril 17. The Emperor's indisposition 1,
turned with such alarming fympfoms
has exprelled a desire to have, and has j 'f le
sacrament administered to him. ' le
7000 Turks have began hostilities bv,«. v
the advanced poll of V 3 llie-mulieri-theTwer 2
well received, and finally routed—'Thffr 1 r
253 killed—our's 10. ols
London, ATRIL 25.
The benevolent inftirutions in this li„„4
for the relief of dijlrefs, and the encouiS™
of virtue, are, it mull be allowed, very numeric
and fnpported with a spirit that does honorto the'
humanity of the inhabitants at large In •, 11-
tion to those one has lately bee.i inftltutedt
this metropolis, called the Philanthropic Scci u
for the effectual relief of those who £ D
lytermedthe the out-catls is, the
children of the vagrant.and profligate poor/who
in their present condition arc dettmedto fucceJ
to the hereditary vices of their parents, and to
become the next race of beggars and thieves
I he mediation of the Court of London and
Berlin will not be able to effert a pacification in
the Noith until Sweden and Ruffla, fliall U.
tried the fortune of another war.
It is believed at Conftaiitinople,'thatit was the
prevalence of Britiih interest that induced the
Vizier to break with Russia. Full of this opinion,
the uiob aflembled lately in a great body about the
house of Sir Robert Amiley, (our Minister at the
Forte) and attacked it with so much fury that
it was with great difficulty his Excellency efop.
Ed with life. r
It is certain tlrat at Conftantinoplo the present
war, m which the Porte isengaged, is highly un
popular. As a proof of this, the mob, cfdv'en to
madnels by the news of the fall ofOczakow and
the dreadful flrwghter of rlie" Turks, ran in
crowds to the palace of the Grand Vizier, which
they fat on fire, and reduced to allies.
In the two forms of prayer, refpeding our
gracious Monarch, two lingular points are verv
obvious. In the firft, his Majesty was said to be
affliifled for the fins of his people'.' In the scrip
ture quotation of the second, a high compliment
indeed, is paid to Dr. Willis, by coviparing him to
the saviour of the world ! Are tllefe points decent ?
1 lie city of London was much disgraced in the
late procession, by the motly figure of the train
band. 1 hey were like FalftafFs regiment; and
paid such an attention to discipline, that a few
half-pence thrown among them, created a scram
ble equal to a parcel of fcliool-boys.
It is 110 less extraordinary than true, that
while half-India Company have been annual
ly exporting silver to China, for want of other
commodities with which to purchase teas, the
Dutch have for years pad been carrying on ave
ry lucrative trade in tin, from the illandof Suina
ti a, v. hich finds a universal cons iimption in eve
rj pait of China. An ingenious gentleman who
was lately in the Company's service, has explain
ed this circumflance to the Court of Directors
and the Lords of the Treasury, who havo turn
ed so attentive an ear to him, that the Company
have already sent off 50 tons of tin, by the Ihips
of the present season.
f}' 011 the Tliankfgiving Day, as a
fubjert interesting the opinions and affections of
all men, is to be painted by Copley.
Aptil^o. 011 the King's recovery, all isthankf
giving and joy. We can only inform the public
111 brief, that 011 7 hurfday lalt the King went in
llateto St. Faul's, to' attend divine service: That
the procellion, the 1110 ft magnificent London ever
vwtnelled, consisted of 305 carriages; drawn prin
cipally by fix horses each : 111 these were the
Ki »S>. Queen and all the Royal Family ; all the
Nobility, Commons, &c.the Lord Mayorand lle
prefentatives of London, &c. &c. That fourthou
fand Military, and one thousand Peace Officers,
were 011 duty, in the streets, to prevent tumult.
1 hat e'-ght thousand fine young charity children,
f 10m different parifhe&, in uniform, chaunteda
hymn while theiinmenfe company were entering
St. 1 aul s : 1 hat after divine service the procei
fion returned in the fame order as thev came:
1 hat the acclamations of the million were loud
and loyal: i hat the King appeared placid and
serene, at times ; but was often melted into tears:
f hat all the Royal Regiments of Guards, the
Tower, Park, &c. fired a feu de joie: That the
bells all rang, and that on the foil wing even
mg the city exhibited one blaze of illumination,
the moll superb, and the most expensive ever
known—the cost being upwards of 500,000!.
llerling ; one building was illuminated by 17,000
lamps, Carlton House by leveral thousand flam
beaux, all variegated—Merchant Taylors' Hall
had 3000 lamps in it—Brook's 6000 ; to reflet
which, looking-glalles were placed, some of
which were valued at 5001. 90 guineas were of
fered for a ticket of permission to Brook's: And
that lioufes were rented 3001. to jool. for the day
Seats at 1 o to 20 guineas—and but for the rain
would have let for more.THE DAY!
The anniversary of Independence is to be celebrated this day
ith uuufual demonstrations of joy, by the citizens of New-York
The Cincinnati are to aflemble at St. haul's, at 12 o'clock, when
£ulo«ium to the memory of the immortal Guttm, will bc
Tdivercd by The Hon. Mr. Hamilton.
Vow ye patriotic band, |j Indeftndmce! pleasing found !
Hall yo Of Country's natal day !1! Now your labors lhall repay;
Saviours of a happy land ! Wajhington withglorycrown'd!
free America ! II II shisdear America !
SKETCH ofFKOCEEDIMOS of CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES cj the
UNITED STATES.
Wednesday, July 1,1789.
MR. SHERMAN moved, that a clause be now
added to the bill for establishing the Treasury
Department, which should prohibit any of the
officers named in that bill from being either di
rectly or indirectly concerned in trade or com
merce : The clause was similar to the provision
made in the ordinance of Congress for eltablilh
jncr t he Board of Treasury—this was amended by
adding the fuliftance of Mr. Burke's motion,
which extends the prohibition to {'peculations in
public securities of all kinds,or in public lands, &c.
Mr. f 1 rzsi mons proposed a further amendment
by whichthcfe officers are not to exerci'fe any other
profeilion whatever, during the time they are in
laid department.
The proposed additiontotlie bill occasioned some
conversation, and there appeared to be a variety
offentiments among the members ; but on motion
of Mr. GiRRY to commit the clause, the vote palled
111 the negative by a great inajo< ity.
He then moved that the whole bill should be
committed : This also was negatived—after which
Mr. Sherman's motion, *ith an addition propo
sed by Mr. Burke and Mr. Fitz.si mons, were
adopted.
The bill was then ordered to be engrofled for
a third reading to morrow.
A ineflage was received from the Senate with
the bill impoling duties 011 tonnage —the Secre
tary informed the hop. Houfethat the Senate ad
hered to their third, fourth, fifth and sixth a
mendments, but at the fame time agreed to the
amendment of the House for laying a duty of 30
cents pr. ton on vellels built in America, and own
ed by foreigners.
The Secretary further informed,that the Senate
had appointed Mr. Wingat f to join a committee
011 the part of the Hon. House, to present the en
rolled bill, laying an Import on goods, wares, and
merchandize, to she Presiden i" for his appro
bation.
The House proceeded to the consideration of
the proposed amendments of the Senate to the
tonnage bill.
Mr. Gerry moved that the House should con
cur with the Senate in their thiid amendment,
Vhith was to Ihike out from the bill the clause
which discriminates in the duty upon tonnage,be
tween nations in treaty, and thole who are not.
This produceda (hort bu. animated conversation.
It was urged by ivli-.Sedg wick, Mr. Laurance,
Mr. Gerry, Mr. Jackson, and lbine others, that
the House had now the ultimatum of the Senate,
determined 011 by a large majority. That the
question involved a dilemma, whether the House
would concur with the Senate in amendments
which they had before rejected, but which fc
cured an abundant difcyiinination between Ame
rican and foreign {hip?, or would lofetlns impor
tant bill, which would be so productive, fonecef
faryto the regulation of trade, and to the jult and
equal balance of the whole impolt system : The
dilemma was easily lolved. The queltion was,
whether a finall good was to be preferred to a great
one—whether the \v;liole revenue ariling from the
American navigation Ihould be given up, for the
fake of exerciling a fanciful predilection and pre
ference of one foreign nation over apother. It
calculated that the produCt of the tonnage
jvoiild amount to 124,000 dollars. This was too
cruras an object to be neglected, even for alhort
time, without some important coii'penfation ; anil
e penally to he hazarded for the precarious hopes
'!"y other measures being deviled to embrace'
0 eurable a prize. The Senate had receded in
°me instances ; the obligation is mutual,and with
out lefe concelfions no object can ever be atcliiev
t was rtlrt her contended, that it was improper
ilL' Ia I *' ou ' c > i' l which the policy of a difcriin
onl l °>! ' ieen determined, in the lalt initance
tn/r ? ami, j° rit y one, toperfevere in oppo
flat ° ,S c . a | ll l rei'pcctable a majority ofthe Se
tion ' a '°' nec ' disapproving a difcriinina
ber' r } V,:IS unreasonable to force a large cum-
Ap °• ' e enate to f.icrifice their principles to
opinion of a Jingle man.
C as r tei,ded 0,1 the other flde by Mr - Ma "
c wren' INI,G al »d Mr. Pagh that a con
fttll aiwMri enate at th'S time, afterthree
the Hour '• , ei aie diicuflions and resolutions ol
without 6 '(" t ' l ' s difcriinination, and
duec a eh' , e L - V evv . ar gument advanced to in
tttifure ' ent inient, was an inconfillent
House. ; ln g ei ' ous tothe privileges of the
% -ould elkablifh, it was faicl, the worit
of precedents—lt would establish a perpetual ar
gument for tlie l'ubmilhon of the representatives
co the Senate in any future differences.
The danger of losing the bill, it was conten
ded, was an argument that went to destroy the
balance of the constitution, as it always might
be urged when the Senate chose to persevere in
amending a bill contrary to the judgment of the
House, or of negativing any favorite measure of
this body.
To give way unconditionally in an important
matter, when no other reai'on was offered, but
the ultimate determination of the Senate, it was
affirmed, was a humiliation unworthy of the
House of representatives, and inconsistent with
their dignity.
lfitwerea measure of conciliation, it w as ob
ved, much might be plead in its favor. But it
bore none of the marks of a principle of accom
modation ; which was always understood to be a
meeting of the parties on some middle line, by
the mutual facrifice of particular principles or ob
jects.
It was further urged that it was not true that
a / ur . ther opposition would involve the neceflity
of losing the bill. It was to be hoped that it was
not yet too late to devise some mode of accommo
dating the differences; or if it was, yet if the
bill were sent back to the Senate, some conside
rations might induce them to recede, which, con
fidently withtlie rules of parliamentary proceed
ings, they might do previous to a second
rence.
On the question of concurrence, the yeas and
nays were called by Mr. Page, and the question
was carried by 31 against 19.
This concurrence being determined, the other
amendments followed, and were acceded to.
The committee appointed for the purpose re
ported a bill to regulate light-houses, beacons,
buoys, &c. which was read and laid on the ta
ble. Adjourned.
Thursday, July 2.
Mr. Partridge of the committee appointed
to examine the enrolled bill, for laying an im
port on goods, wares and merchandize imported
into the United States, reported that laid bill
had palled exam ination—was corrected, and now
ready for the Speaker's signature.—A iimilar re
port was made reflecting the bill impoling a duty
011 tonnage.
A letter from The Baron Steuben, president
of the Cincinnati of the State of New-York, ad
drelied to the Speaker, requelting that the House
would honour the Society by their presence, at the
celebration of the 4th July, was read.
1 heengrolled bill for eltablifhingthe Treasury
Department was, read a third time : The Houle
then proceeded to iill the blanks : The Treasur
er is to exhibit his accounts to the House of Re
presentatives on the " third" day of every fellion
of Con<nefs.
O
The blank in theclaufe which provides for his
giving a bond with fuHicient lureties for the faith
ful performance of the duties of his ofhce, and
toi that of the persons employed by him, was ril
led with " one hundred andfijty thousand dollars."
file blank in the penalty to be incurred by the
secretary of this Department, for being concern
ed in commerce, ("peculations, &c. was nlled with
"five thoujand dohars"—and forlike delinquency
in the Comptroller, Regilter, &c. " two thoujand
dollars."
she bill was then palled to be enacted, by a
large majority.
i he bill for eltablifhing li'ght-houfes, regulat
ing pilots, &;c. was read a second time, and re
ferred to the committee of the whole, and made
the order of the day for Wednesday next.
In committee of the whole—
Mr. Trumbull in the chair—
The bill to regulate the collection of the im
port was taken into conlideration—and the com
mittee having made some progress in difcufling
the fame—role, and the House adjourned.
Fkiday, July 3.
11l committee of the whole—
The bill to regulaLe the collection of the im
port, rtill under conlideration.
The clause which restriCts foreign ships to par
ticular enumerated ports, it was moved fliould
be llruck out —this occaiioned some debate ; the
fubltance of which occurred in the former dil
culiion of the fame lubjeCt—this motion was
finally withdrawn.
Mr. Gerry then introduced amotion, the pur
port of which was, that the names of the parti
cular ports which were the object of the above
motion, fliould be ftruek out, and the following
words be substituted, " nor ihall any foreign
veflel enter or unlade, but at thole ports, to which
a Collector, Naval-Officer, and Surveyor is ap
pointed.—This also after some converlation, was
negatived.
The committee then proceeded in difcufling
the bill—several ports were added to the lilt, at
which foreign vellels may enter.—The commit
tee having made further progress—rose—the
chairman reported—and the House adjourned
till Monday.
THE DAY!
In commemorating the present DISTINGUISHED DAY,
what additional motives to joy, and gratitude to Heaven, naturally
croud upon, and dilate the foul of every American. Our happr
nefs on every preceeding anniversary has been more or less inter
rupted, either by the din of war, orcivil discord : All those clouds
are now happily dispelled—a profpeft new and splendid dawns
upon us : Our common FATHER and DELIVERER, to whose
prudence, wisdom, and valour we owe our PEACE, LIBERTY,
and SAFETY, now leads and directs in the grand councils of the
nation, for their preservation. As the CONQUERER of our
enemies he is entitled to our praise : As the SUPPORTER and
DFFENDER of the rights of mankind, he is the jufi object of our
love, reverence, gratitude and cftecm. As we have crowned the
HERO with laurels, let us honor the PATRIOT by an humble
imitation of his exalted virtues. Let us rejoice that AMERICA
can boad a SON,
Whose loud-trumpt fame o'er the wide welkin rings,
And wakes to virtue the proud hearts of kings;
Remotest realms reverberate his name,
Stern Despots kindle with a patriot flame;
Their frigid bosoms new sensations warm,
And againd tyranny, e'en Tyrants arm.
HIS sacred fire, o'er all COLUMBIA dreams,
And FREEDOM balks beneath THE PATRIOT'S beams.
From all parts of the Union accounts agree, that THIS DAY
will be celebrated witVi a degree of hilarity and feftivity, hither
to unknown. We have had the name of Independence—th efhadoto
without thefuijlance. As a nation, the Independence of the whole
wai suspended on the whims and caprices of a fuigle State, and
our individual, separate sovereignty and independrnce, were con
tinually infringed upon by partial and local regulations, which
were fubvtrfive of the dignity and independence of the Union.
This idea became so general at lad,that the people were convinced,
that they amused themselves with a found, whtle rhe profpeft of
real Independence was receding, and growing more uncertaiueverv
day. Thrs roused us to a&ion, to deliberation, to dccifion—and.
now we celebrate an tndependent Government—an original, inde
dependent Conditution ! an independent Legislature, at th. head
of which we THIS DAY celebrate THE FATHER OF HIS COUN
TRY—We celebrate WASHINGTON ! We celebrate an INDE
PENDENT EMPIRE!
" Now lhall COLUMBIA lift her cheerful head,
'' Put forth the leaves of glad prosperity,
" And after all her gloomy scenes of grief,
" And fadaffli&ion. flourilh and revive,
" In all the bright fcrenity of peace."
In congratulating our readers upon this anniversary day of their
independence, we hope to excite the mod emotions.
When the citizcns of this nation have on former occafL-ns celebra
ted this memorable day, the ardor of their feftivity was checked
by the glo£m and uncertainty of their polrtical prolpeth. A the
object of the revolution was not only Independence, but Govern
ment, our fucccfs mufthave been deemed incomplete at any period
before the adoption of the glorious cpnditmion. which itto secure
our liberty by giving rife to a fydem ofjuft legislation . With pe
culiar propriety may this our birtlj day be considered as a rnoft
elevated occasion of joy and congratulation. . Whether we reflect
on the vad and adomihing scenes through which we have piflTed
11l our progress through the war ; or whether we contemplate the
conspicuous advantages that offer themselves to our view in our
prclent fituatiou ; great mull be our admiration for the pad ! and
elevated our hopes for the future. On whatever fide we turn our
eyes the profpeft is bright and captivating. The spirit of peace
and accommodation that reign in the great bulk of our citizens;
the wisdom and patriotism of ouf legislative fathers ; the talents
and integrity that will charaftt rife the executive officers from the
mode of their appointment, and nobleexample of their illudrious.
head and director, are all circumllances that auth,orife us to indulge
in the gay scenes and amuf. mentsthat arc marked out for this auspi
cious day. It is however to be hoped that excess and indecency
of every description will be thattheennobling idea
that we are a free and virtuous as well as an ind pendent people,
will prevent our darning our chara&ers with vicious indulgence
or rude mirth and hilarity, and bringing reproach on a day which,
(hould be dedicated to joy and gratitude, rather than to diflipation
and intemperance. To associate in cheerful parties of feilivitv
li iwever is no unsuitable method of expressing the feelings which
rife out of the occasion. May we long continue to enjoy equal
reason lor amusement and congratulations !
We felicitate the public that The Pk zsjdent is so recovered
from hislateindifpofition.as to take the air in his carriage for se
veral days pad.
The people of the United Statesare didinguilhed from all others
upon the face of the earth, for an enlightened understanding, and
a just estimate of the blessings of society, and government: This
can be attributed to nothing, but a spirit of univerfaj freedom of
enquiry—the general diffufion of knowledge by means of their
numberless seminaries of learning, scattered through all parts of
thecountry, and that generous concern for the public intercd,
which pervades all ranks of citizens.
Money is the nerve of war—and ln'duftry the foul of a common
wealth : In a free and jud government, the wealth of the indu
ftriousand prosperous citizen, is the wealth of the State. For
when the inhabitants of a country are under the prote&ion of
good laws, whi;n they find their confidence is judly placed in
the adminid'ration, and they realize that their pe'rfons sire p rote fl
ed, and their property secured, advances to aid the public are al
ways prompt, and liberal. Hence the rich become bankers for
the public, and the public have an exhaudlefs source to draw up
on.
The propriety and importance of attention to the coin of the
United States is obvious: Revolutions in every line produce a
lempofy lpconvemertcy—and that of an universal alteration in
the currency of a country, not one of the leaf*. The late Con
gress aware of this in the ordinance upon this fubjeft, have studi
ed that simplicity and plainncfs, which will obviate all difficulty,
provided any attention is paid to the fame by the people at large.
The general court ot Massachusetts is adjourned to January ncjct.
Both branches of the legislature of Massachusetts previous to
thejr adjournment, took the oath prescribed by law to support
the constitution of the United States.
The address to The President of the Uni.ed States having
pafl"ed both Houses of the legislature of Massachusetts, the Secre
tary of that State was directed to forward it to their Senators
in Congress, with a request that they would present the fame.
In Mr. Vining'sfpeech, publipied in our lafl, infleadof " Hercu
les rose brawling from his cradleready brawny—and then the sense
will dc, that the government, although an infantas to age, had in Jlrength
and conjlitution, the vigour of manhood; and fhouldtherefore conjult,
in its fir ft operations, the wisdom and experience of former nations } as
to its d'Jlributivepowers.GEORGIA..
WE the underwritten Delegates from the People in Conven
vention met, do declare that the following Articles (hall
form the Constitution for the Government of this State, and, by
virtue of the powers in us veiled for that purpose, do hereby rati
fy and confirm the fame.
The CONSTITUTION of the STATE of GEORGIA.
ARTICLE I.
S,ttion I. r | Legifiative Power (hall be veiled in two fe
-1 parateand diftintt Branches, to wit: a Senate
and House of Representatives, to be flyled, " The General As
sembly."
Sett. 11. The Senate shall be eletted on the firft Monday in
October in every third year, until such day of elettion be altered
by law, and shall be compoled of one member from each county,
chosen by the elettors thereof, and (ball continue for the term of
three years.
Sett. 111. No person shall be a member of the Senate who
shall not have attained to the age of twenty eight years, and who
shall not have been nine years an inhabitant ot the United States,
and three years a citizen of this State, and shall be an inhabitant
bf that county for which he shall be eletted, and have resided
therein fix months immediately preceding his elettion, and shall
be possessed in his own right of two hundred and fifty acres of
land, or iome property to the amount of two hundred and fifty
pounds.
Sett. IV. The Senate shall elett, by ballot, a President out of
their own body,
Sett. V. The Senate shall have solely the power to try all im
peachments.
Sett. VI. The elettion of members for theHoufeof Represent
atives lhall be annual, on the firft Monday in Ottober, until such
day of elettion be altered by law, and (hall be composed of mem
bers from each county in the following proportions: Camden,
two; Glynn, two; Liberty, fourj Chatham, five; Effingham,
two; Burke, four; Richmond, four ; Wilkes, five; Waflimgton,
two; Green, two; and Franklin, two.
Sett. VII. No person shall be a member of the House of Repre
sentatives who shall not have attained to the age of twenty one
years, and have been seven years a citizen of the United States,
and two years an inhabitant of this State; and (hall be an inhabi
tant of that county for which he shall be elettcd, and have resided
therein three months immediately preceding his elettion; and
(hall be pofTelTed in his own right of two hundred acres of land,
or other property to the amount of one hundred and fifty pounds.
Sett. VIII. The House of Representatives lhall choose their
Speaker and other officers.
Sett. IX. They shall have solely the power to impeach all per
sons who have been or may be in office.
Sett. X. No person holding a military coramiflion or office of
profit under this or the United States, or either of them, (except
justices of the peace and officers of the militia) shall be allowed
to take his feat as a member of either branch of the General As
sembly : Nor lhall any Senator or Representative be eletted to any
office of profit which shall be created during his appointment.
Sett. XI. The meeting of the General A(Tcmbly lhall be annu
al, on the firft Monday in November until such day of meeting
be altered by law.
Sett. XII. One third of the members of each branch (hall have
power to proceed to buftnefs ; but a fmailer number may adjourn
from day to day, and compel the attendance of their members
in luch manner as each House may prescribe.
Sett. XIII. Each House lh|ll be j'idges of the elettions, re
turns, and qualifications, of its own members ; with powers to
expel or punish for disorderly behaviour.
Sett. XIV. No Senator or Representative shall be liable to be
a rrefted during his attendance on the General Assembly, or for a
reasonable time in going thereto or returning home, except it be
for treason, felony, or breach of the peace: Nor shall any mem
ber be liable to answer for any thing spoken in debate in cither
House, in any Court or place elsewhere.
Sett. XV. The members of the Senate and House of Represent
atives shall take the following oath or affirmation : " I, A. B. do
solemnly swear, (or affirm as the cafe may be) that I have not ob
tained my elettion by bribery or other unlawful means; and that
I will give my vote, on all queftionsthat may come before me, as
a Senator, 01 Keprefentative, in such manner as in my judgment
will best promote the good of this State ; and that I (hall beartrue
faith and allegiance to the fame, and to the utmost of my power,
observe, support, and defend, the Constitution thereof."
Sett. XVI. The General AlTembly shall have power to make
all laws and ordinances which they lhall deem nccelTary and pro
per for the good of the State, which lhall not be repugnant to this
Constitution.
Sett. XVII. They (hall have power to alter the boundaries of
the present counties and to lay oft new ones, as well out the coun
ties already laid off as out of the other territory belonging to the
State. When a new county or counties (hall be laid off, out efany
of the present county or counties, (uch new county or counties
lhall have their representation apportioned out of the number of
the Representatives of the county or counties out of which it or
they (hall be laid out; and when any new county lhall be laid off in
the vacant territory belonging to the State, such county (hall have a
number of Representatives, not exceeding three, to be regulated
and determined by the General AlTembly. And no money shall
be drawn out of the Treasury, or from the public funds of this
State, except by appropriations made by law.
Se6l. XVIII. No Ciergyinan of any denomination shall be a
member of the General Alfembly.
ARTICLE 11.
Se£L I. The Executive Power lhall be vested in a Governor,
who lhall hold his office during the term of two years, anu lhall
be elected in the following manner :
Sett. 11. Ihe House of Representatives shall, onthefecond day
of their making a House, in the firft, and in every second year
thereafter, vote by ballot for three persons; and lhall make a lift
containing the names of the persons voted for, and of the number
of votes tor each person, which lift the Speaker shall lign in the
prelenceof the Houle; and deliver it in person to the Senate; and
the Senate (hall, on the fame day, proceed by ballot to elett one
of the three persons having the highest number of votes, and the
person hav ing a majority of the votes of the Senatots prelent lhall
be the Governor.
Sett. 111. No person shall be eligible to the office of Gover
nor who (hall not have been a citizen of the United States twelve
years, and an inhabitant of this State fix years, and who hath not
attained tp the age of thirty years, and who does not pofTefs five
hundred of land in his own right within this State, and
other species of property to the amount of one thoufund pounds
ifterling.
Sett. I\ In cafe of death, resignation, or disability of the
Governor, the President of the Senate Hull exercise the Execu
tive Powers of Government until such disability be removed, or
until the next meeting;of the General Aifembly.
Settl V. The Governor lhall, at dated times, receive for his
krvice, a compensation which (hall neither be increafcd nor di
minished during the period for which he lhall be eletted, nei
ther shall he receive, within that period, any other emolument
from the United States, or any of them, or from any foreign pow
er. Before he enters on the execution of his office, he shall take
the following oath or affirmation : " I do solemnly swear, (or
affirm, as the cafe may be) tint I will faithfully execute the office
of Governor of the State of Georgia, and will, to the bed of my
abilities, preserve, protett. and defend the said State, and cause
justice to be executed with mercy therein, according to the con
stitution and laws of the fame.
Sett. VI. He (hall be Commander in Chief in and over the
State of Georgia, and of the militia thereof*
Sttt. VII. He (hall have powers to grant reprieves for ©Acnces
againii the State, except in cases of impeachment, and to grant
pardons, in all cases after convittion, except for treason or mur
der, in which cases he may rei'pke the execution, and make a re
port thereof to the next General Aflembly, by whom a pardon
may be granted.
Sett. VIII. He shall ifiue writs of elettion to fill up all vacan
cies that happen in the Senate or House of Representatives, and
shall have poWer to convene the General Aflembly on extraordi
nary occasions, and shall give them from time totime information
ot theftateof the Republic, and recommend to their considerati
on such measures as he may deem neceflary and expedient.
Sett. IX. In cafe of disagreement between the Senate and House
of Representatives, with refpett to the time to which the General
Aflembly shall adjourn, he may adjourn thein to such time as he
may think proper.
Sett. X. He shall have the revision of all bills pafled by both
Houses before the fame shall become laws ; but two thirds of both
Houses maypafsalaw notwithstanding his difl'ent, and, if any
bill should not be returned by the Governor within five days af
ter it hath been presented to him, the fame shall be a law, unless
the General Aflembly, by their adjournment, shall prevent its
return.
Sett. XI. The Great Seal of the State shall be deposited in the
officc oi the Secretary, and it shall not be affixed to any inftn
ment of writing without it be by order of the Governor, or Ge
neral AfTembly, and the General Aflembly may dirett the Great
Seal to be altered.
ARTICLE 111. '
Sett. I. A Superior Court shall be held in each County twice
in every year, in which shall be tried, and brought to final deci
sion, all causes civil and criminal, except such as may be fubjett
to a Federal Court, and such as may by law be inferred to infe
rior jurifdittion.
Sett. 11. The General AfTembly shall point out the modes of
correcting errors and appeals, which shall extend so far as to em
power the Judges to dirett a new trial by jury within the County
where the attion originated, and which shall be final.
Sett. 111. Courts Merchant shall be held as heretofore, fub
jett tofuch regulationsasthe General Aflembly may by law dirett.
Sett. IV. All causes shall be tried in the County where the de
fendent resides, except in cases of real eflate, which shall be tried
in the County where luch eflate lies, and in criminal cases, which
shall be tried in thecounty where the crime shall be committed.
Sett. V. The Judges of the Supreme Court and Attorney-Ge
neral, shall have a competent lalary eftablifhrd by law, which
shall not be increased nor diminished during their rontinuance in
office, and shall hold their com million during the term of three
years.
ARTICLE, IV.
Sett. I. The elettors of the members of both branches of the
General Aflembly shall be citizens and inhabitants of this State,
and shall have attained to the age of twenty one years, and have
paid tax for the year preceding the elettion, and shall have resi
ded fix months within the county.
Sett. 11. All elections shall be by ballot, and the House of
Representatives, in all appointments of state officers, shall vote
for three persons, and a lift ot the three persons having the high
est number of votes fliall be signed bv the Speaker, and sent to
the Senate, which shall from such lift determine, by a majority
ot their votes, the officer eletted, except militia officers and the
Secretaries of the Governor, who shall be appointed by the Go
vernor alone, under such regulations and reftrittions as the Ge
neral Aflembly may prekribe. The General Aflembly may vefl
the appointment of inferior officers in the Governor, the courts
ol justice, or in such other manner as they may by law establish.
Sett. 111. Freedom of the press, aftd trial by jury shall remain
inviolate.
Sett. IV. All persons shall be entitled to the benefit of the
writ Habeas Corpus.
Sett. V. All persons shall have the free exercise of religion,
without being obliged to contribute to the support of any religi
ous profeflion but their own.
Sett. VI. Estates shall not be entailed, and when a person dies
intestate, leaving a wife and children, the wife shall have a child's
share, or her dower, at her option; if there be no wife the cf
tate shall be equally divided among the children and their legal
Representatives of the firft degree. The distribution of all other
intestate eftatei may be regulated by law.
Sett. VII. At the general elettion for members of Aflembly,
in the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety-four, the elec
tors in each county shall clett three persons to represent them in a
convention, for the purpose of taking into consideration the alte
rations neceflary to be made in this constitution, who shall meet
at such time and place as the General Aflembly may appoint; and
a, tW ° th ' r< * s thc wh °k number shall meet and concur, they
shall proceed to agree on such alterations and amendments as they
may think proper. Provided, that after two thirds shall have con
curred to proceed to alterations and amendments, a majority shall
determine on the particulars of such alterations and amendments.
Sett. VIII. This Constitution shall take eflett, and be in full
force, on the firft Monday in Ottober next, after the adoption of
the fame; and the executive shall be authorised to alter the time
lor the fitting of the Superior Courts, so that the fame may not
interfere with the annual elections in the refpettive counties, or
the meeting of the firft General Aflembly.
Done at Augusta, in Convention, the sixth day of May, in
the year of our Lord, one thousand seven hundred and
eighty-nine, and in the year of the Jiovereignty and Inde
pendence of the United States, the thirteenth.
\Y ILLIAM GIBBONS, President and Delegate frvmChatham.
Asa Lmanuel, Justus H. Scheuber, Chatham.
Benjamin Lamer, John Green, N. Brownfon, i-ffnghim.
David Emanuel, Hugh Lawfon, William Little, Burke'
Abraham Marshal, W. F. Booker, Leonard Marbury Richmond.
John Talbot, Jeremiah Walker, IVUkes
Launchlan M'lntofh, Liheru
Alexander-Billet, C/y™.
Wood" Wa " 5 ' W fXn.
Jofepii Carmichael, Henry Karr, • Greene
D- LONGSTREET, Secretary.
lothe PRESIDENT ot the UNITED STATES.
The Address oj the Minijlers and Elders of the German Reformed Con
gregations m the United States at their General Meeting, held at Pkila.
dfiphia, on the 10 th day oj June 1789.
WHILST the infinite goodness ot Almighty God in his gra
cious Providence over the people of the United States of America
calls for our fincercft and rnoft cordial gratitudeto him that ruletl'i
iupremely, and ordereth all things in Heaven and on earth in
imerrmg wisdom and rigteoufnefs ; the happy, the peaceable ef
tablilhment of the new government, over which you so deservedly
prelide, cannot fail, but inspire our fouls with new and the molt
lively emotions of adoration, praise and thanksgiving untohis holv
name.
As it is our noil firm purpose to support in our perfins a
government founded in justice and equity, so it shall be our con
itant duty to impreis the m.nds of the people entrusted to our
care, with a due lenfe of the necclfity of uniting reverence to such
a government and obedience to its laws, with the duties and exer
cile of religion. Thus we hope by the bleflingof God, to be in
lome measure mflrumental of alleviating the burthen of that weighty
and important charge, to which you have been called by the un
animous voice of your fellow-citizens, and,which your love to voui
country has constrained you to take upon you.
Deeplv possessed of a sense of the goodness of God in the ap
pointment of your person tothe high station in the national govern,
raent. we shall continue in our public worfltip and all our devotions
before :\e thrortc of grar,. to pray that it may r odto
you in your perfon,your family and you, government, I
temporal and lpiritual blefliags in Christ Jesus.
Signed bv order of the meetin-.
W. HEN'DiL. p. t. p'a.r e ,.
F - DELLIKHR, p. t .
The President's Answer.
To the MiniJlers and Elders of the German Rejormed Correlation! U
the United States. ° J
Gentlemen,
I AM happy in concurring with you in the sentiments of -n
titude and piety toward. Almighty God, which are erfprdftil
with luch fervcncy of devotion in your address ; and in believm
that I (hall always find in you and the German Reformed .Con"
gr.gations in the United States, a condutf correfpondmt to (ucC
worthy and pious expreflions.
At thr fame time I return you my thanks for the manifeftation
of your firm purpose to support in your persons a govctnmcne
founded in juilice and equity ; and fur the promise that it will be
yourconftantftudy to impress the minds of the people intruded
to your care with a due sense of the neceflity of uniting reverence
to such a government, and obedience to its laws, with the duties
and exercises of religion. Be assured gentlemen, it is by such con.
du&, very much in the power of the virtuous members ofthe com
munity to alleviate the burden of the important office which J
have accepted, and to give meoccafion to rejoice in this woild to
having followed therein the di&ates of my conscience.
Be plea fed also to accept my acknowledgments for the interest
you so kindly take in,the prosperity of my person, family, and
administration. May your devotions before the throne of'grate
be prevalent in calling down the Median of heaven upon voun
selves and your country. GEORGE WASHINGTON. "
Authentic injlance ofthe horrible barbarity oj Religious Persecution.
MARGARET Valois, Queen of Henry IV. of France, writes
in her memoirs concerning the maflacre of Paris :
" When in a found Ileep, fays lhe, I was very suddenly awak
ened by a knocking at the door, and calling out,' Navarre! Na
varre ! My nurse, thinking it was the King my husband, hasten
ed to the door; it was a gentleman named De Trajan, bleeding
very much, being wounded in two places, and with four yeoman
ofthe guard at his heels, who forctd their way after him into my
room ; he ran to my as a fan&uary, I leaped out, and he
after me, clasping m'e round the body by the bed fide. We both
cried out, one being no less frightened than the other. At length
the Captain of the guards came in, and finding me in such a con
dition, though there was more call for pity, fell a laughing, as at
foinething droll. In the Louvre, in the King's filler's chamber
even on her very bed, gentlemen were butchered, contrary to
oaths and treaties! and Niniac, who had the charattcr of one of
the worthiell men at court, laughs at the fight! He laughs in tlus
horrible juncture I Oh ! this so execrable day he couH laugh!
" Having fliifted my linen, (adds the Princess) because I was
all over bloody, and throwing a night gown over me, Iwcnt to
the appartment of Madaine de Lorraine, I was no sooner in her
anti-chamber, than a gentleman flying from the yeoman of ths
gujrd, was ltruck dead with a ha Inert close by me,"
THE NATIONAL MONITOR. —No. XIIL
[The fubjett of the lait No. continued.]
IT mttjl be conceded on all hands that the equality of circumflances
which prevails in jome oj the United States, is more f riendly to general
liberty, than thedifparity which is apparent in others. This idea fuggefs
an obvious advantage, which will result to the Southern traveller, who
may make»' he Northern and Eajlern tour : Born with high ideas of birth,
and educated in principles ofjuperiority to the numerous herd of Jlavet
which continually surround him, the opulent planter can fcaruly conceive
oj government, obedience, and good order, among a race oj freemen : But
when he quits his extensive acres, cultivated by the hand of the de pre [fed,
and toil-worn /lave, and traverjes the highly cultivated jelds of the Eajl
ern States—when he mingles with the hardy yeomanry oj the North—the
indujlrious, free jpirited mechanicks, the evterprizing traders and mer
chants of the New-England States—When he objerves their variousfocial
injlrtution-s jor the promotion of harmony, mutual ajjijlance, arts, manu
failures, and literature—the equal opportunities enjoyed by all rank [ for
the acquisition oj knowledge, and improvement oj the human faculties,
and a variety oj other objetls which might be mentioned, and which will
always jlrihe the ingenious and attentive objerver: Ifay, an opportuni
ty to reflefl upon theje things, will have a powerful tendency to enlarge
the mind, liberalize the views, and reFiijy the afjeflions oj the Southern
traveller : he will, in all probability, return a more generousfriend to the
Tights of human nature than he jut out.
On the other hand, a variety oj prejudices will be eradicated from the
mind oj the Eajlern traveller, by exploring the regions of the South: I.e
will there find muny things worthy oj notice, ojimit-jtion and admiration:
He willjce indujlry crowned with affluence, independence, hofpita'ity,
and liberality of manners ; and notwith(landing the prevalence of doitiej
ticflavery, he will jnd the noblefl sentiments of freedom and independence
to predominate—auguring the final triumph of reajor., humanity, and
univerjal liberty ! He will behold the highly cultivated plantations e x ten
sive as the horizontal landjcape : He will extol the enterprize, the art,
and ingenuity, which are co-operating with nature to unite extensive
regions by the friendly connexion oj noble rivers, that meander through,
md frufiify the bpun'dlefs intervals : He will jee that nature here com
benjateS for intenjerjolar lays, by a joil that yields to eajier cultivation,
'han subdues the glebe which forms the jurface oj his native clime • g
vill compare—he will balance—he will rrfleft, that nature is wife, end
'hat providence, in the dijlribution oj its javors, is not capricious, or
iujl. C. _
This Day is publJjhed > (Price 2/6) ,
And to be fold by Berry & Rogers, Hanover- Square, Dy
Robert Hodce, Cornerof King and Queen-Street, an y
the Editor hereof;
TWENTY-SIX
L E T T E R s >
upon INTERESTING SUBJECTS,
respecting the REVOLUTION of AMERI ca *
Written in Holland in the Year M,DCC,LXXX.
By his Excellency JOHN ADAMS,
WHILE HE WAS SOLE MINISTER PLENIPOTENTIARY PRO.-
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
FOR NEGOCIATING A PEACE, AND A TREATY OF COMMIRC £ »
WITH GREAT-BRITAIN.
Never bejore publijhed.
ADVERTISEMENT.
Prefixed to the Letters. , ,
DR.CALKOEN an eminent Civilian at Amflerdam, to whorn t f J c
letters were written, compojed,bythe means oj them, a comparison oet ™"?
the revolt oj the Low Countries from Spain, and the revolution oj K
United States of America; in which he concluded, upon the whole,
" as it was a kind of miracle that thejorrnerjuceceded, it wnuldbeagteat
" miracle jlill ij the latter jhouli not."—This composition was read
him to a jociety oj gentlemen oj letters, about jort\ in number,
sometimes at Amflerdam ; and by its means jus fentim nts of Ame r } cd ,
affairs began to jpread in that country, and to prevail over the
m \J "representations oj certain gazettes and emiffaries —The pubnea 1?
oj General Howe and Bu rgoy n e, in vindication of thcrnjc'.ies, 111
procured to be translated into Frcnch,and propogated, together wit
other pamphlets, which afjijlcd in the jame design, and contributed 0
cite the citizens to thoje applications, by petition to the rcgenctes oj -
several cities, which finally procured the acknowledgement of Anew-
Independency, the Treaty oj Commerce, and a Loan 5
Publiflied by JOHN FENNO, M aidE ' ; '
Lani, near the (Jfaiego-Marliet, New-York.—[_^doi prtn-i