[No. XXX.]
'p j-j E TABLE T.- NO* XXX.
« Sagacity and good humour arc among the ejfen
tjal qualities'of *" accomplished inftruilor of youth.
SOME author in treating upon education,
introduces the following Itory.
« Plato in one of his dialogues tells us, that So
crates, who was the son of a mid-wife, nfed to fay,
fat as his mother, though Jhe was very /killed in her
trofc/Jion, could not deliver a woman, unless fhs was
fir I with child, so neither could he himfelf raise know
hideout (if a mind, where nature had not planted it.
» Accordingly the method this philosopher took, oj
jiiflriifting his fchclars, by several interrogatories or
auejlions was only helping the birth, and bringing their
In thoughts to light." , . .
The principle contained in this quotation
jhould not be carried too far. Indolent teachers
are too ap: to persuade tliemfelves, that every
scholar who actually does not make progress in
learning, is naturally incapable of it. 1 his be
lief induces them to neglect those youth who do
not manifeit tokens of genius, as unpromiHing
i'prouts. They huddle a number of them toge
ther and aflign them talks to delve upon ; and re
prove their dulnefs, rather than flrive to blow the
latent sparks of genius into allame. The talents
of some people lie so deep, and are of such a
contexture that it is difficult to bring them into
view. Many a lad palles through a collegiate e
duc3tion without any pleasure or reputation, who
after he is left to himfelf, and can exerci'e his
own judgment, in the application of his own a
bilities makes a refpedable figure in society, and
becomes more ufeful and eminent, than many
sprightly genuifes who despised and discouraged
him, when promifcuouily employed in the fame
course of study.
When the iuftructors at any University or
fcboolhave not a thorough knowledge of human
nature, the youth committed to tlieir care will
become averse to learning from the manner in
which inflrucftion is communicated. Such pro
feflors or tutors as do not gain the love and re
spect of their pupils cannot expeit their tuition
will be advantageous. It is of importance there
fore tliat the initructors should not only poilefs
learning and genius, but that they should bedif
tiaguiihed by an amiable, discreet deportment.
If under the direction of such men the academi
cians are discontented, idle or vicious, it fur
niJhes a prelumption that they are not employed
in that kind of literature which is suitable for
thein. We inuft either draw this conclulion, or
we have no other alternative than to fuppofe,that
they have such dulnefs of understanding, or such
perverfenefs of difpolition as can never be re
claimed. To diftinguilh which of these causes o
perates in producing such indolence and averlion
in any youth, we mull attend to his conduct and
temper in other respects. If a refractory and vi
cious inclination marks his general character, we
mult Dot ascribe his depravity to an improper
treatment in his fcliolaftic exercises. But if in
tlieufual tenor of his life, he manifefts a trada
ble and ingenious spirit, and can be restrained
from diflblute manners, we mult suppose his ha
tred of le arr.ing and his not making proficiency
m it, refult3 from an injudicious alignment of
his thirties. It can generally be known whe
therthe fault lies in the talk itfelf,orin the man
ner of imposing it, or in the natural lterility of
the fubjecft on which it is imposed.
fhebad habits and vices contracted at public se
minaries may seize such hold of the mind,that they
cm never be eradicated through life. In whatever
Itation aniana<ts, he will discover traits of his
education. It is to be regretted that a better
foundation is not laid to render the tranlitions
f:om youth to manhood, and Itudy to business
wore easy and natural. There seems to be a
chasm which it is difficult and often impraitica
le to fill up. Some blight scholars never become
ufeful men ; and many promising youth dwindle
asthcj grow old, into infignificance and contempt,
s this the inevitable decree of nature ? or is it
'he effect of erroneous education. My next pa
per shall touch upon the question.
A ROM THE MASSACHUSETTS CENTINEL.
[Thefollowing ORATION was delivered at the South Grammar
luo! > Bolton, onthc last Visitation Day. by Mailer Charles
W >tI.IAMS Windship.
0N THE pr OGRESS and ADVANTAGES of a GOOD EDUCATION.
ofDIXG on the candourof those refpe&able guardians
hn™' lUre ' anc * P atrons °f youthful genius, before whom I have
tints un° r I with diffidence beg leave to offer a few
The ih 1 -' 1 C P ro^re^s anf * advantages of an early education.
pared . t! j leis co piousand variegated, and may perhaps be com
t!vates P e » w here a beautiful profufion of objects cap
limnci " n i e ' * • ver^^ es thefcene ; while I like an untaught
than the . ]^ mn ' n g t p wield the pencil, rather feel the ambition
youth a ' 01 the profpeft. How amiable does a
ar parental guides have qualified him with the
SATURDAY, July 25, 1739.
graces ofobediencc, and filial refpeft, and allured him to the love
of virtue by exemplifying her charms—who have early formed
him to habits ot virtue, and taught him to be delighted with in
itruftion.—After parental care and tenderness have thus advanced
him from the dawn ot life, to the period for literary pursuits, he
is placed under the tuition of a careful inftruftor, who nurtures
the pliant bud ot genius, and teaches the young idea how to Jhoot. His
inclinations are dire£ted to rule and order, and his reason led to
acquiesce in the necessity of subordination. His hope is quickened
into expectation ot reward fuitableto his merit; and his ambition
ftimulatcd to surpass in every laudable pursuit : He is patient and
diligent in his ftudics, and endeavours to leiToirthe talk of his in
llruttors by the docility of his disposition, and the placidncls of
his temper : Competitors excite his emulation : He becomes sus
ceptible of honor, and is a&uated by gcnerofity and the finer fen
tnnents of a cultivated mind. Though he finds the firft stages in
the road to science rugged and dillicult, and meets with more
thorns than roses, yet as he advances, the way bccomes pleasant,
and new profpetl* rife, decked with all the luxuriance of thought,
and thf ple<ifiug images of imagination. Being conscious that he
is travelling the load to fame, as well as intelle&oal pleasure, he
becomes invincible in his resolution for diflindtion, and alliduous
in his progress. He now confidcis his accidence and grammar,
and the rudiments of language, as avenues to the temple of Know
ledge—for being no longer embarrafTed by mere words, he ascends
to the ideas they represent. His understanding gradually unfolds
ana brightens, and he becomes enamoured with knowledge by
its increase. Now the harmonious didtion and chafle sentiments
of Virgil win his approbation ; now the address and politeness
of H'or ace begin to charm, and now the sublime majesty ot Ho
mer, and the tranfeendent eloquence of immortal Tu lly fire his
bosom with fcientific rapture. At this period he looks back with
lurprife upon the dark Itate of his ignorance, and is charmed with
the light of erudition. And the sensation it produces in him,inay
perhaps not unaptly be compared to those which travellers exper
ience, who after wandering in some dreary desert, fatigued with
the asperity of the way, are luddeniy tranlported into a cultivated
country adorned with blossoms productive of delicious fruits, vocal
with melodious birds, Janned with salubrious gales, resplendent
with sunbeams, and replete with obje&sof the purcft delight.
Thus the young pupil goes on in his happy progress, until the
approbation of his inltruttors pronounces him fit to be transfered
to a higher feat of li erature, the University—in expe£lation of
which, lome of us are soon to bid adieu to this institution, from
which we have derived so great advantage, and tootferan aftettion
ate farewell to our much refpe&cd inftruftors. I feel that I never
had more to fay, nor was it ever less in my power to express my
felf upon any occasion—Will youthen, ye guardians of literature,
deign to accept the tribute of conscious gratitude.
Venerable fathers ot the town, under whose auspices we com
memorate this annivcrfary, permit us to return you our filial
thanks for your presence this day : May our schools and colleges
never want patrons to support them, nor friends to protest the
caule ot virtue and religion. And now to you my companions,
and to myfelf, I wu'h that happiness that mult reiult from com
pleting an early education, and the advantage and pleasure that
will spring from the pursuit of that science and virtue, for the at
tainment of which we have received so many paternal indigen
cies—Then shall we gladden the guides ot our youth—then will
the robe of honor clothe—the friend approve —and the parent
bless us.
ORIGINAL SPECIMENS of ELOQUENCE.
I.
7"HE Editor 9 solicitous to minglennovelt y variety
and utility in his original M'fcellany , hopes the follow
ing example s r f Eloquence 9 exhibited in the negociation
of Treaties with the Indians fine: the ratification of the
independence of the United States, will be acceptable
to his readers.
At a Meeting of the Connniflioners of the United
States, in Nov. 1785, with the Head-Men and
Warriors of all the Tribes 01* T owns of the Che
rokees, the former addreiled the latter in the
following words:
" Head-Mf.k a\d Warriors of all the
c< Cherokf.es !
"WE are the men whom you were informed
came from Congress to meet you the Head-Men
and Warriors of all the Cherokees, to give you
peace and to receive you into the protection and
favor of the United States; and to remove, as iar
as may be, all causes of future contention and
quarrels—that you, your people, your wives and
your children may be happy ; and feel and know
the bleifings of the new change of Sovereignty
over this land, which you and we inherit.
" We sincerely wifti you to live as happily as
we do ourselves, and to promote that happiness
as far as is in our power ; regardless of any dif
tin (ft ion of colour, or ot any difference in our
manners, or particular situation.
*< This humane and generous A (ft of the Uni
ted States will 110 doubt be received by you with
gladness, and held in grateful remembrance : and
the more so, as many of your young men, and the
greateil number of your warriors (d uring the late
war) were our enemies, and alliiied the King of
Great-Britain in his endeavours to conquer our
country.
" You yourselves know that you refufed to lift en
to the good talks Congress sent you ; that the cause you
efpoujed was a bad one ; that all the adherents to the
King of Great-Britain are compelled to leave this
country, never more to return.
" Congress // now the Sovereign of all our
country, which we now point out to you on the
map. They want none of your lands, or
any thing e/fe which belongs to you ; and as an earnest
of their regard for you, we propofeto enter into
articles of a treaty PERFEC ILY EQUAL, and
conformable to what we now tell yon.
" If you have any grievances to complain of,
[ Publijbid on Wednsfday and Saturday. j
we will hear them—and take f'ucli measures in.
consequence thereof as may be proper. We ex
pect you will l'peak your minds freely, and look
upon us as the Representatives of your FATHER
and FRIEND the CONGRESS, who will fee jus
tice done you.—You may now retire and reflect
on what we have told you ; and let us hear from
you to-morrow, or as loon as pofiible."
The next day the Tassel of Chota arose and ad
drejfed the CommiJJioners thus :
" I amgoingtolettheCominiffioners hear what
I have to lay to them. I told you yesterday, I
would do this to day. I was very much pleased
with the talk you gave us yesterday—it is very
different from what I expeifted, when 1 left home.
Ihe Head-Men and Warriors are also equally
pleased with it.
" Now I shall give you my own Talk. I am
made of this earth, on which the GREAT MAN
ABOVE placed me to poflefs it: and what I am
about to tell you, I have had in my mind for many
years
" This Land, we are now on, is the Land we
were fighting for duringthe late contest, and the
GREAT MAN made it for us to subsist upon. You
must know, the Red People are the aborigines of
this land, and that it is but a few years since the
White People found it out. lam of the firlt flock,
as the Commissioners know, and a native of this
land. And the White People are now living on ic
as our friends. From the beginning of our firlt
friendship between the White and the Red Peo
ple be ads were given as an Emblem thereof: and
these are the beads I give to the commissioners
of the United States, as a confirmation of our
friendfhip ; and as a proof of my opinion of what
you yesterday told us.
(a string of white beads.)
" The Commiflioners have heard how the
White People have encroached on our lands, oil
every fide of us that they could approach.
" I remember the Talks I delivered at the
Long Island of Holfton : and I remember giving
our lands to Col. Chriftieand others, who treated
with us, and in a manner compelled me thereto,
in i 777. I remember the Talks to Col. Chriltie,
when I gave the lands at the mouth of Cloud's
Creek eighteen springs pall. At that treaty we
agreed upon the line near Lime-Stone. The V ir
ginia /ine and part from the mouth of Cloud's Creek
to Cumberland Mountain, near the Cap, were paid
for by Virginia. From Cloud's Creek a uiretft line
to the Chimney-top Mountain,thcnce to the mouth
of Big Lime-Stone 011 Nolichv. ky, thence to the
firjl Mountain about fix miles from the river 011 a
tine across the fun, was never paid for by the Ca
rolina, which joins the Virginia line.
" I wifli the Commissioners to know everything
that concerns us, as I tell nothing but the truth.
They, the People of North Carolina, have taken
our lands for no consideration ; and are now
making their fortunes out .if them. I have in
formed.the Commissioners of the lint I gave up.
The People of North Carolina and Virginia have
gone over it ; and encroached on our lands ex
preilly against our inclination. They have gone
over the line near Little River, and they have gone
over Nine-Mile Creek, which is but nine miles from
our TOWNS. I am glad of this opportunity of
getting redress from the Commissioners. If Con
grels had not interposed, I and my people must
have moved. They have even marked the lands
on the bank of the river the Town where I
live ; and from thence down in the fork of the
and Holjlon.
" 1 have given in to you a detail of the abuse
and encroachments of these two States. We shall
be fatisfied if we are paid for the lands we have
given up: but will not, »or cannot ps
any more—l mean the line I gave to Col. Christie.
" I have no more to fay—but one of our belo
ved women has, who has borne and raised up War
riors."
The War-Woman of Chota then addrejfed the Com
miJJioners :
" I am fond of hearing that there is a Peace ;
and I hope you have now taken us by the hand in
real friendfhip. I have a Pipe and a little Tobac
co to give the Commissioners to smoke in friend
fhip. I look on you and the Red People as my
C HILDREN. Your having determined on Peace
is moll pleasing to me ; for I have seen much
trouble duringthe war. lam old, but 1 hope yet
to bear children—who will grow up and people
our nation ; since we are now to be under the
protection of Congress, and shall have no more
disturbance.
" The talk I have given is from the Young
Warriors I have raised in my Town, as well as
myfelf. They rejoice that we have Peace ; and
we hope the chain of friendfhip will never more be
broken."By Authority.
ORDINANCE,
RESPECTING LIBERTY TO TRADE WITH THE SOUTH
• ERN PART OF ST. DOMINGO.
NINTrfOF MAY, 1789.
Ext raft from the Regijlers oj the Superior Council oj Sti Domingo.
THE tour which the Governor General has lately mride to
the southern parts, has enabled him to judge personally of the si
tuation to which they arc reduced, as well as of the only efficaci
ous means to raise them to that degree of splendor they are sus
ceptible of. He has observed, that the bounty of two hundred
livres, granted by the Arret of the King's Council of State, dated
the 25th of September, one thousand, fcvcn hundred and eighty
fix, which expires the ill of Angufl next, for every negro that is
imported, so iar from becoming a means of encouragement, has
fcarc.ely fufficed to replace the annual deficiencies by sickness and
desertion ; and has not given that activity to the commercial spe
culations of France, that was cxpe£led. That this trade requires
the cargoes to be rigorously paid for in money, or to fell them from
twenty-five to thirty ptr cent. dearer, if they are paid for with
produce, and that by continuing the excluiive privilege of the
southern parts, they will be always in a langui filing fituacion,
without circulating money, and will never be able to derive from
themselves the riches they pofTcfs.
That on the other hand, this quarter which is as fine as the
northern and western, only requires in order to become as fruitful,
a degree of flrength which it now wants ; That by encreafing the
number of nezjoes by importation,- the land will become as pro
ductive as the other quarters ; that the King will derive a consi
derable sum by the duties which will be levied on the articles
>mported and exported, and the inhabitants will encreafe their
fortunes, and will extricate themselves from their unfortunate situ
ation, and at the fame time acquireeafe and tranquility : That the
National commeice will be enabled hereafter to extend itfelf in this
quarter and reimburse itfelf the sums which may be due to it.
On mature rcfle&ion of all thefc considerations, the unanimous
•wilhof the inhabitants for a free importation of negroes, the per
fe£l confidence we have, that it will produce the bell effects, and
that the commerce of France will only cease its operations for a
time, in order to derive hereafter greater activity and conliftency,
and that the southern part will produce within itfelf immenlc
riches, from which the King, the inhabitants, and commerce will
derive the greatest advantages ; We the General and Intendant,
by virtue of the powers entrufled to us, and with His Majesty's
good plcafure, have provisionally enabled and ordained, and we
do enadt and ordain, as follows, viz.
ARTICLE I.
Reckoning from the ill of Augull, 1789, to the lft of August,
1794, foreign vefTels of 60 tons burthen and upwards, shall be ad
mitted into the ports of Jeremie, les Cayes, and Jacmel, with ne
groes, flour, lumber of all forts, sea-coal, live Hock of all kinds,
fait provilions, of beef, pork, codfifh, and other fifh, rice, indian
corn, vegetables, hides, and tanned leather, furs, rosin, pitch and
tar—and may discharge and fell said merchandize.
11.
All the Southern quarter shall benefit from the importation of
licgroes, and the other articles set forth in the preceding article, as
far as and comprehending St. Michael dufond des Negres, Aquin,
J3aynet, Jacmel, and des Cayes de Jacmel. The inhabitants of the
aforcfaid five parishes, as well as those of the parishes of Ame-a-
Veau, Petit Iron des Baradaires. Jeremie, Cape Dame Marie, Tibu
xon, des Cotteaux, Torbek, des Cayes, Cavaillon, and St. Louis,
may furnifh themselves with negroes, and other commodities,
mentioned in the ifl article, which shall arrive in the three ports
of entry, Jeremie, des Caves, and Jacmel, provided they conform
to the regulations of the present Ordinance with refpeft to trans
porting negroes to the other quarters, and under the penalties
therein contained, mention of which will be made hereafter.
111.
French merchants and owners of vefTels, whether belonging to
the kingdom 01 to the French Iflunds and Colonies, who shall be
inclined to import the commodities pointed out in the lft article,
shall be likcwife admitted.
IV.
The payment for negroes and other commodities which shall
be fold by foreigners, to the inhabitants of the southern quarter,
comprehended within the line of demarcation, may be made in
fagar, or other produce of the colony.
V.
All merchandize, whose importation and exportation are per
mitted to foreigners by the ill and 4th articles in ;he aforefaid
three ports of entry, shall be fubje£l to the eilablifhed local duties,
and shall pay moreover one pr. cent, of their value, excepting ne
groes which shall not pay this lafl duty of one pr. cent, and except
ing also the duty of entry 011 cod fifh and fait fifh, which shall be
reduced to three livres pr. quintal.
VI.
Foreign vessels shall pay for the whole duty of entry into the
said ports, forty-five livres for every negro they shall import.
VII.
Foreign vefTels shall be fubjeft to the payment of the western
duty for the merchandizes they shall export from the ports men
tioned in the feconvl article, and such as the French vessels pay in
Francq, for the colonial produce they import there.
VIII.
Every foreign vefTel going out from thethree ports of entry with
out having paid the duties above mentioned in the three preceding
articles, and which fhalj be taken by His Majefty'sveffels, or others
commifiioned for that purpose, shall be conducted to one of the
ports of the Admiralty, to be there impeached and condemned to
confifcation and a fine of three thousand -i\res tournois.
IX.
French vefTels, whether belonging to the kingdom or to French
ifLnds and colonies, shall pay for the importation and exportation
of the merchandizes mentioned in the firfl article, the eilablifhed
local duties. They shall pay 110 duty of entry soT negroes nor the
\Veflern duty which they are fubje6t to pay in Europe.
X.
Every foreign vefTel detested in landing negroes and other com
modities, in other placcs of the colony thanthofe defeated in the
:ft article, shall be confifcated and condemned in a fine of ten
thousand livres colony money.
XI.
Jn order to secure the effed of the fines mentioned in the Bth
and 10th articles, every captain of a foreign vefTel shall be bound
to have a French correspondent at his arrival in one of the ports of
entry defeated in the ift article, who shall be obliged to give
bond for this purpose, which bond lhall be fully cancelled one
month after the failing of the vefTel from the port where it shall
have been given.
XII.
Every negro imported belonging to foreign vefTels, and who
shall be taken beyond the limits eilablifhed by the 2d article, shall
be confifcated to the King's use : For this purpose the captains of
foreign vessels shall be obliged, within ten days, reckonmg from
the day of their ariival in one of the ports of entry, to brand all the
negroes of their cargo with the three legible letters J. P. S. and if
the said negroes are not branded within that time they shall like
wise be confifcated to the King's use.
XIII.
Every imported negro who lhall be found without the limits
eilablifhed by the 2d article, among the inhabitants other than
those mentioned 111 the said article, shall be confifcated to the uft
of the King, and the proprietor condemned (par corps) in a fine of
fifteen hundred livres, to be applied to the hospitals de la Provi
dence, ot Port-au-Pi uce and the Cape.
XIV.
Every foreign vcflel which arrives at one of the three ports ol
entry may depart before the expiration of eight days, with new
commilfions tor another of the aforefaid ports defoliated in th<
present Ordinance.
XV.
There shall be established in each of the said ports of entry s
fufficient number oi cominiflioners to receive the declarations ol
cargoes, which {hall be made by the captains, which declarations
jhey {hall register in a book kept for that purpose. They flial]
superintend moreover the execution of the provisions of the 51)1.
6th. 7th. and 12th. articles, and lhall deliver no permit for failing
from the port until they are alfured that they will be fulfilled.
XVI.
Captains of foreign vessels, besides the declarations they {hall
make to the commillioners of the offices of entry, {hall hkewife
make them to the secretary of the admiralty; they shall fulfill
moreover all the formalities of the Ordinance, and lhall ihow then
bills of loading and chatter parties.
XVII.
The proceeds of the fines andconfilcations mentioned in the Bih
and 10th articles {hall be attributed, one moiety to the Kin-*, and
one moiety to the commiUioner who lhall have occasioned the
seizure, it the ti anfgreflion happens 111 the ports of entry. On the
contrary, if the vessels taken in the fraud lhall have been seized by
His Majesty's ships and velfels, the whole of the said proceeds {hail
belong to the commander, chief officer and crew that are. captors,
saving the dedufchoft in all cafcs of the cxpences of justice, admi
rals dnties, and the invalids. In cafe of informers, one third of the
fame proceeds lhall be given to them.
XVIII.
We expressly prohibit and forbid all French belonging to the
leeward islands lending their names to make foreign Vessels pre
tended French bottoms, under penalty of a fine of three thouund
livres, to be applied to the hospitals de la Providence in Port-au-
Prince and the Cape, without prejudicing the confifcatiou of said
vcflel ordained by the different regulations patted with refpeft to
navigation. We enjoin the attornies of His Majesty and the Ad
miralty jurisdidions to prosecute with all diligence such as con
travene this article, under penalty of being answerable themselves
XIX.
The provisions of the letters patent of the month of O&ober
1787, and the lubfequent Ordinances and regulations refpefting
foreign commerce inthe French islands and colonies, lhall be more
over executed, as far as they do not interfere with the present Or
dinance, which lhallberegifttred in the intendant'soffice, printed,
publilhed, and posted wherever it shall be neceflary.
We itqueft the officers of the Superior council of St. Domingo
likewifeto regiiler it in then office, to print and poll it wherever
it may be necessary; and we command all thole within their jurit
di£tion to aflilt in its execution.
Given at Port-au-Prince, nnder the Sealoj our Arms, and the
counterfgn ofour Secretary, the gth of May, 1789.
DUCHILLEAU.
By the General.
(sicned.) BONHOMME.
REGISTERED m the ojficc of the Intertdance o}the French Ame
rican Leeward ljlands> at Poruau-Prince, the 9 th of May, 1789.
t (signed.) SENTOUT.
The present ORDINANCE has been regiftcred in the office
of the Superior Council of St. Dommgo, and tlierequeft being heard
that it Ihould be executed agreeable to its form and tenor, print
ed, publilhed and posted wherever it may be necessary, and copies
thereof, compared with the present, fern to the fenelchals and ad
miralsjurifdi&ions, to be there likewise read, publilhed, register
ed and posted, the King's Attorney General enjoins his deputies
to aflift therein, and certify the fame to the Court agreeable to the
Arret of this date.
Done at Poit-au-Prince, in Council, the nth of May, 1789.
(signed,) BON VALET.
Faithfully tiavjfratii from the ?
Original, by John Pi ntard. £
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
hi the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STAiES.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 22.
MR. BURKE, of the committee appointed for
that purpol'e, pi efenteda bill for allowing a com
pensation to The President, and The Vice-Presi
dent of the United States—which was read.
In committee of the whole.
The bill providing for the settlement of ac
counts between the United States and individual
States was difcufled—the committee then rose,
and the chairman reported, that the committee
had gone through the discussion of the bill, with
out making any amendments. It was then moved
that the committee be discharged from any fur
ther consideration of said bill—and that it be re
ferred to a feledl committee—this palled in the
affirmative, and Meflis Sturges, Baldwin, and Smith,
(S. C.) appointed.
The petition of Hannah Adams, ofMaflachu
fetts, was introduced by Mr. Ames, stating that
she had published a work entitled an Alphabetical
Compendium of the various religious feifts which
have appeared in the world ; and was now engaged
in preparing a second edition for the prels^; for
which she prayed the benefit of an art of Congress
to fecureto her the profits of the fame, agreeably
to the Constitution—laid on the table.
The Houi'e then, on motion of Mr. Scot, refol
yed itfelf into a committee of the whole, to take
into consideration certain resolves, refpeiting the
Western territory-and after some conversion
the following, in substance, were agreed to, viz.
r R j f^ d ' aS the fenre ot tJl is committee, that a
Land-Office oughtto be established, for the faleof
vacant and unappropriated lands in the Western
territory.
That the laid office beunder the superintendence
of the Governor of the Western territory for the
time being—that the lands to be fold be contain
ed within the rol lowing limits, viz.
That the tradts and parcels to be disposed of
jliall not exceed acres.
That the price to be required shall be
acre. 1 '
r -T' lat v Ve " y i Ps; f ° n actually fettled within the
hmits ftali bc entitled to the pre-emption of
a quantity, not exceeding acres, inclu T
ing his settlement.
A committee, conlifting ofMr. Scot, Mr. Syhcl'ir
and Mr. Moure was then appointed to brine iu 1
bill or bills, agreeably to the laid resolutions
Mr. Carrol moved that tlie report of the com.
mittee 011 the enrollment, attestation, public?!
tion, and preservation of the acts of Conirn'r
fhould be taken up.
I This motion was fuperceded by Mr. Vining'
| giving notice that lie should 011 10 morrow move
tor the house to go into acommitteeofthe whole
011 the state of the Union, to take into considera
tion the establishing an executive department t 9
be denominated the Domestic Department. Thi
fubjert, he observed, is connected with the obiea
of the gentleman's motion—as this eltablilhmeiit
will provide a proper repository for the records
of the Legislature, and other parts of the report
maybe included in the provision.
Mr. Vining also moved, that The Prelident be
requested and authorised to provide a greater and
leflerfeal, with proper devices, for the use of the
United States.
This occasioned some conversation: Itwasfaid
that a Great Seal for the United States is already
provided, and the neceUity of a leller seal is a mat
ter of doubt—No deciixou took place upon the
motion—and it accordingly was laid upon the ta
We.
Mr. Benson introduced arefolutionfor theap
pointment of a committee, to bring in a bill to
prescribe the forms of commiflions, to be granted
to the officers of the United States—laid°on the
table. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, JULY 2J.
Mr. Patridge of the committee appointed to
wait 011 The President, and present the en
rolled bill for establishing an executive depart
ment, to be denominated the department of fo
reign affairs, reported that said committee had
attended that service.
The bill for allowing a compensation to The
President and Vi ce-President of the United
States, for their services, was read afecond time,
and palled to be engrofled for a third reading
to-morrow.
The committee on the memorial of Andrew
Ellicott, presented a second report, which was
read and laid on the table.
On motion of Mr. White—
Resolved, that a committee be appointed to ex
amine into the meafurcs taken by Congrel's, and
the State of Virginia, refpeding the lands reser
ved for the use of the officers and soldiers of the
said State, 011 Continental and State establishments
in the ceflion made by the said State to the Uni
ted States, of the territory north-weft of the Ri
ver Ohio, and to report the fame to this House.
—Committee appointed—Mr. White, Mr.P.Muh
lenbtrg, Mr. Seney.
On motion, of Mr. Vining the House went in
to a committee of the whole—
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
Mr. Vining then introduced the fubjed: of the
domestic department, by proposing a resolution
in substance as follows : t
Rtfoived,. as the sense of this committee, That
an executive department ought to be eftablilhed,
to be denominated the Home Department—the
head of which to be called the Secretary of the
United States for the Home Department —whole
duties shall be, to correspond with the several
States, and fee to the execution of the laws of
the Union—to keep the great seal, and affix the
fame to all public papers when neceilary—to keep
the lefier seal, and to affix it to commiflions, &c.
to make out commiflions and enregifterthefaule ;
—to keep authentic copies of all public acts, and
transmit the fame to the several States—to pro
cure the a<fis of the several States, and report on
the fame, when contrary to the laws of the Uni
ted States—to take into his custody the archives of
the late Congress—to report to The President
of the United States, plans to promote manufac
tures, agriculture, and commerce —to keep a geo
graphical account of the several States, their
rivers, towns, roads, and to report what post
roads lhall be established, &c.—to receive and re
cord the ccnfus —to receive reports refpetfting the
western territory—to receive the models and spe
cimens presented by inventois and authors— to
enter all books for which patents are granted—
to iilue patents, &:c. —and in general to do, and
attend to, all fucli matters and things, as he nW)
be directed to by The President.
This resolution was warmly oppofed,by ?.lefli s.
White, Benson, Sedgwick, Gerry, Hun
tington, Sherman, and others. . 1 1
The several duties fpecified, were particular J
refered to, and it was observed, that they wouW
very properly come within the limits of the great
branches of the legislature, or of thoie execu
tive departments already eftablifhed —that foine
of the objects were not eflential —It was urge,
that there are offices enough already eflablilie
that the people are viewing the proceedings 0
Congress with attentive folickude —that if " ,e )
observe offices created, for which tiere is n ®. 11,1
mediate necessity, and for the support of wine
the money niuft be extracted from their
earnings, they will be apt to withdraw then rj affection from this legiflatuve—that in
fp \.,, P ndituresof' the public money, the gien
'If' LnmV ought to be observed—that thi
J 1 //ns ofthe people will be fufficiently great, t
ie theabfolutelv neceilary fupplies,many o,
P™V ties it was observed might be pei formed L_
fc Secretary of the Senate—that encreafingot
£ , andoroviding for the minutiae of admini
Son in this way, would fupercede the necel
• f a legillative body —whole expence 011 this.
r is „eedlefs, &c. It was therefore move.
fhat the firft clause of the reloluuon fliould bi
lLi -ro k tUcfc and many more observations, Mr.
Vining replied, in defence of his propoiuion—
bathe had waited till the bills for
the executive departments were compleated—ln.
'■'nil that thole bills did not embrace the object.-
f the resolutions— that these objects are ot 1111-
° rtance and ought to be noticed will be gram
ed—this department is as neceilary as any elta
bliflied except that of the treasury—The Preh
.lent Ihouldbe relieved from the burden of tbek
inferior duties as much as pollible—governmen,
is a complicated machine—The Prefulent fhoulu
be at the head, to fuperinrend the w hole—he
ibould have his mind free and unembarraHed.
that he may more effectually observe the move
ments ofthe various parts.—As to tothe expence ;
he obferved,that this would be a plan of economy :
information 011 these points is neceilary to be
bad—and the question is, whether a contidentiaj
officer is not a better medium, than vague inform,
ation, by letters fromperfons, perhaps intei efteci
to deceive. He then adverted to the several du
ties to Ihew their importance, that they are not
comprized in any oliice already constituted, and
could not with any propriety come under the cog
nizance of those departments. Mr. Vining
pointedly disclaimed all personal motives, i;i
bringing forward this bulincfs—he came forth, he
observed, upon the broad basis of the public good.
The motion for striking out the clause, bein»
put, palled in the affirmative.—The committee
thenrofe, and the Speaker relumed the chair.
Mr. Sedgwick introduced a motion that a
committee be appointed to bring in a billfupple
mentary to the acft for eftablilhing the depart
ment of foreign affiairs—declaring that said de
partment should hereafter be denominated
to which certain additional duties were to be
annexed —fucli as keeping the seals, making out
comniiflions, &c. &c.
This motion after some debate was negatived,
and then the House adjourned.
KRIPAY, JULY 24.
Mr. Gerry ofthe committee appointed for
thatpurpofe, brought ill abill to provide for the
registering, and clearing of veflels—for regulat
ing their tonnage, and the coalting trade, which
was read—voted that 100 copies be printed for
the House.
The engroflecl bill for allowing compensations
toTHE I'kESI DF.NI aild VICE PRiSIDtNT, sol"
their refpee r tive services, was read a third time —
this bill provides that the '/ia-PreJident flrall, in
cafe the powers and duties of the President de
volve upon him, receive the compensation allow
ed to the President, and his allowance as Vice-
President is then to cease.
Uponmotion it was voted that this bill be re
committed, and that the House will this day re
folveitfelf into a committee of the whole for the
purpose of taking the fame intoconfideration.
The committee to whom was recommitted the
till to provide for the settlement of accounts be
tween the United States and individual States, re
ported an amendment to said bill, which impow
ersthe President of the United States to nomi
nate and appoint, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, proper persons to lill such
yacancies as have taken place, or may happen,
in the Hoard of Conimillioners 011 Accounts, ap
pointed under the ordinanceof the late Congress,
alio authorizing said Board to appoint a Chief
Clerk, and luch other clerks as the service may
require.
iliis amendment after some debate,was adopt
ed, and the bill ordered to be engrolledfora third
reauing on Monday next.
In committee of the whole.
Mr. B cud i not in the chair.
l lie engrolled bill for allowing compensations
tO . ' :e i'relidentand Vice Prelident was then read,
an amended, by more particularly fpecifying the
t'lne \\hen the compenfat'* ns lliall commence,
Y z - At the time when theyfhall enter on the
uties of their respeCtive stations."
he clause refpecling the Vice-President's re
ceiving the compenlation of President, in cafe the
powers and duties of that office should devolve
pon him, was voted to be ltruck out.
he committee then rose—and it was ordered
'bat the bill lye on the table.
P°n motion ofMr. Fitzsimons, theeftimate
fiderat" 1 was and taken into con-
r tllen v . ote d 'hat a committee of ways and
\.' c appointed, to which the said eitimate
»as refcred.
Upon motion it was voted that this committee
on (I it of eleven—the ballots being collected, the
jllowing gentlemen were chnfen, viz.
Meflrs Livermore, Vining,
Gerry, Smith, (Maryland)
W adi'v/ortli, Madifori,
Laurance, Smith, (S. C.)
Cadwallader, Jackson,
Fitzfnnons, Adjourned.
UPON THE MANU FACTURE OF GLASS.
BO 1 FLES, blackor green, are tliemoftfim
ple of all the glass manufacture—the profit in
naking which depends upon the greatelt number
of workmen being employed at the smallest ex
,:>enfe of fuel. From eight to sixteen blowers can
work all at once, at one melting furnace, fix feet
iiameter, which Mill take fixcordsof wood every
wenty-four hours. The belt coiiftrufted green
glafi furnace in this country is in New-Jersey—
where the whole business of smelting, blowing,
and cooling is done with one fire, by the particu
lar conllrmftion of the furnace.
WHI FE GLASS may also be made in the fame
furnace : but it is much more curious in its com
pofitio'n : for to make it white, it must partake
;>f all the colours—for this reason—in smelting
the purest materials, they naturally have a green
ish and purplish tinge ,• to dislodge which a black
illi foffil fubltance is made use of—upon this prin
ciple, that one colour in glass making will destroy
another ; so that at last a beautiful glass is produ
ced called -white ; but like the chriftaline humour
of the eye, it partakes of all the colours, as may
be fcen in the best Englilh white glass, which has
a changeablenefs like soap bubbles ; but in the
best London crown glass, or mirrours, you will
not perceive any of that fpaikling, changeable
power, because it would distort the object fefcn
through or reflected, on account of the refracting
power of such glass ; therefore this is made
of pure salts and sand only and has a native
greyifli colour, as maybe feenby the broken pieces
that, like water, they may reflect the objeifts tru-
Jy-
CROWN GLASS may be made here to greater
profit than any other glass—on account of the
plenty and cheapness of materials—the quantity
that can be made—and the great consumption of
it.—The method of making which—form and di
menfionsof the furnace—preparations of the ma
terials—l lhall wave for particular reasons.
A GLASS"MAKER.
FOREIGN AND lOMESTIC MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES.
LONDON, APRIL 9.
It is said that the following fix noblemen hold
43 boroughs at their disposal :
LOl d Lonfdale, 11
Duke of Newcastle, 8
Lord Elliot of Port Elliot, 7
Lord Oxford, 7
Lord Falmouth, 5
Lord Edgecombe, y
A molt outiageous tumult has happened at
Barcelona, in Spain, in consequence of the high
price of bread. 011 the ill ult. a very numerous
mob began to fetfire to the town magazines,where
the corn is deposited. Having finifhed here, they
burnt two houses belonging to principal corn
dealers, besides some others.
The King of Sweden has received the molt af
fectionate addreHejfrom all parts ofliis kingdom,
declaring how extremely ready the people are
to second Uis willies for carrying 011 the war. The
Finlanders have been particulaily forward, which
is the more agreeable to his Majefly, as it was
feared that these people would be gained over by
the Empress of Rulua, their ancient Sovereign.
She has not been wanting in promises towards
tlieni, but they have been rejected. Even tliofe
towns which lie nearest the borders of Ruflialiave
seemed the molt loyal to the King; of Sweeden.
• t
This spirit, which runs through every part of
the mukitude, will have the molt beneficial ef
sects in the prosecution of the war.
The famous Abbe de Raynal is now living at
Marleilles, in the 76th year of his age. He was
requelted by that city to be their representative
at the States General, but excused himfelfon ac
count of his age and infiriuities. The following
is an extract of a letter he wrote to the magistra
cy, as an apology for not accepting their oiler :
" GENTLEMEN,
" I am now in my 76th year, and four months
tedious sickness has deprived me of the small re
mains of physical as well as moral strength of
mind, which age had left me. The least reflec
tion weakens my enfeebled nerves. You will
from thence judge, that under these circumstan
ces, I can neither fulfil the fundtionsof bein^your
representative, with that dignity which is clue to
you, or, if 1 may be allowed to fay it, to myfelf."
Last week died Jervis Gibfon, Esq. senior al
derman of Lincoln, aged 84. His death was oc
casioned by taking poison through a mistake.—
Having been in the medical line, he used to mix
his own medicines ; and, intending to take some
f ills, he ordered his servant to bring him a paper
out of a drawer, part of the contents of which he
mixed in warm water, and after drinking it off,
on finding a sediment, he was alarmed, and oil
examining the paper found he had taken corro-
I five sublimate. The proper means were tried
without efFeift, and he died in half an hour. The
j coroner's inquest, on view of the body, bi ought
in their verdict, accidental death.
NEW-HAVEN, JULY IJ.
The anniversary of Independence was cele
brated here the 9th inft. by the Society of the
Cincinnati.—After fele<sling their otlicers for the
ensuing year, they went in procession to the
Brick Meetting-Houfe, where divine services
wa performed, by the Rev. -N. Perkins—After
which Col. David Humphreys delivered an
elegant Oration—The profound attention and
united and reiterated applauses of a most 1 efpec
table and brilliant audience, are the best pane
gyric upon this ingenious, sensible and manly
production.
NEW-YORK, JULY2S, 1789.
On Tliurfday I ast that venerable patriot
CHARLES THOMPSON, Esq. religned to The
President of the United States his office of Se
cretary to Congress—a post which he has filled
for nearly Fifteen Years, with reputation tohiui
felf, and advantage to his country.
When Heav'n propitious fmii'd upon our arms,
Or scenes adverle ipread terror and alarms.
Thro' every change the Patriot was the fame—
And FAITH and ROPL attended THOMPSON'S NAME.
From Georgia to Nevj-HatnpJhire the public pa
pers teem with accounts of the joyous cele
bration of INDEPENDENCE. —The present
Anniversary appears to be considered by every
part of the continent, as a 1110 ft auspicious era in
the hiftoryof our country —anticipatingtlie bles
sings of security and good government under the
administration of our excellent Constitution >
Independence appears adorned with new lustre.
A correspondent obf'erves, that there are sever
al circumstances which concur to embarrass the
circulating medium of this city—one is the ex
cess which is put 011 the value of French crowns—
this conduces to the advantage,not of the citizens,
but of ft angers, who makeaprofit of 1 pi. cent,
upon all the crowns they biing here : This cir
cumstance drives the change out of circulation,
and the dollars out of the State.
Another embarrailing circuniftance is the want
of small bills of the paper money—none being is
sued less than five lhillings : To diminish this dif
ficulty, recourse was had to an expedient which
has increased the evil—and that is the introduc
tion of an iminenfe quantity of copper coin :—
This arrived at last to such an abuse of the public
confidence that their circulation 011 a sudden has
aim oft ceased ; but to the cruel injury of many
persons who fuffer by this sudden stagnation ; the
injury is not much alleviated by being told that
they must part with tlieir property at a loss of
200 pr. cent, some advertizing that tliey will take
coppers at 60 to the shilling which have been cur.
rent a 20.—These things ought not so to be.
The education of youth in all free countries,
has always been a prime objedt of attention.—An
enlightened people can never be enslaved :—The
nioft benevolent plans for the poor are the means
of acquiring knowledge :—The wife and virtu
ous are sometimes plunged indiftrefs; but the
wretched part of every community will general
ly be found to consist of those who have been neg
ledted in their education, or who never were in
circumstances to acquire information.—Every so
ciety is bound to make public provision for the
inftrucftion of the poor,
Extraß of a letter from Boflon, July 7.
Commencement was celebrated on Wednesday
last, with the usual eclat —variety, ingenuity and
taste were difcoveied in the several exhibition*.
A 1110 ft numerous and biilliant collection of la
dies were present.—Forty-six young gentlemen
received the Bachelors Degree. —
It is expected that the gentlemen who are cho
sen to represent this State in the Senate of the
Congress of the United States, viz. Philip
Schuyler, and Ruius King, Esquires, will
take their feats in that honorable body in a few
days. Mr. King arrived here on Wednesday,
from Albany, and Mr. Schuyler it is supposed, is
now on his way from that city.
The Hon. Abiel Foster is elected a Repre
sentative of the United States, for the Diftri«st of
New-Hampshire—this choice compleats the Fe
deral Legislature.
Several fanners, in the vicinity of Hartford,
have, the week past, reaped their English grain,
which proves exceedingly good : in consequence
of which, oldgrain is plenty, and the price con
siderably fallen ! [Con. Coi/r ]
(fsT"Amcricanus is unavoidably omitted.—Original Specimens of
Kloquence will be continued. _______
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK.
Thursday Sloop Jenny, Taylor, St. Croix. 7 days.
Friday. Brig Lovely Peggy, White, Montego-Bay.
Schooner Hawk, Matthews, Grenada.
Polly, Burnham, Cape Francois. 12 days.
Sloop Union, Watson, Philadelphia,
Sloop Unity, Simmers, Philadelphia. 6 days.
Sloop Charlotte, Chafe, St. John's, 24.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
[Continued from our
AN ariitocracy, like tlie Roman senate, be
tween the abolition of royalty and the inltitution
of the tribunate, is of itfelf a faction, a private
partial intereit. Yet it waslefs fotlian an aliem
bly annually chosen by the people, and vested
with all authority, would be ; for l'uch an aflem
bly runs falter and easier into an oligarchy than
an hereditary ariltocratical aflembly. The lead
ing members having, as has been before shewn in
detail, the appointment of judges, and the nomi
nation to all lucrative and honorable offices, they
have thus the power to bend the whole executive
and judicial authority to their own private in
tereit, and by tliefe means to increase their own
reputations, wealth, and influence, and those of
their party, at every new election : whereas, in
a simple hereditary ariltocracy, it is the intereit
of the members in general to preserve an equality
among themselves as long as they can ; and as
they are smaller in number, and have more know
ledge, they can moreealily unite for that purpose,
and there is no opportunity for any one to in
crease his power by any annual elections. An
aspiring arillocratic therefore mult take more
time, and use more address, to augment his in
fluence : yet we find in experience, that even
hereditary ariltocracies have never been able to
prevent oligarchies riling up among them, but by
the most rigorous, severe and tyrannical regula
tions, l'uch as the institution of inquilitions, &c.
It may found oddly to lay that the majority is
a fadtion ; but it is, neverthelels, literally just.
If the majority are partial in their own favour, if
they refufe or deny a perfect equality to every
member of the minority, they area faction : and
as a popular aflembly, collective or reprei'entative,
cannot aCt, or will, but by a vote, the firlt (tep
tuey take, if they are not unanimous, occasions a
divilion into majority and minority, that is, intd
two parties, and the moment the former is unjult
itisa faJtion. The Roman decemvirs themselves
were let up by the people, not by the senate :
much longer time would have been required for
an oligarchy to have grown up among the patri
cians and in the senate, if the people had not
interposed and demanded a body of laws, that is, a
conltitution. The senate oppoled the requilition
as long as they could but at last appointed the
decemvirs, much againll their own inclinations,
and merely in compliance with the urgent cla
mours of the people. Nedham thinks, that "as
" the firlt founders of the Roman liberty did well
<£ in driving out their kings; 10, on the other
" fide, they did very ill in fettling a standing
" authority within themselves." It is really very
injudicious, and very ridiculous, to call those Ro
man nobles who expelled their kings, founders of
the Roman liberty : noteing was farther from
their heads or their hearts than national liberty ;
it was merely a Itruggle for power between a
king and a body of haughty envious nobles ; the
intereit of the people and of liberty had no Ihare
in it. The Romans might do well in driving out
their king : he might be a bad and incorrigible
character ; and in such a cafe any people may do
well in expelling or depoling a king. But they
did not well in dcmolifhing the lingle executive
magiltracy : they should have then demanded a
body of laws, a definite constitution, and an in
tegral lhare in thelegillature for the people, with
a prccife delineation of the power of the firlt ma
giltiate'and senate. In this cafe they would have
been entitled to the praise of founders of Roman
liberty : but as it was, they only substituted one
fyltein of tyranny for another, and the new one
was worse than the old. They certainly " did
" very ill in fettling a Itandingfovereigu l'upreine
" authority within themselves." Thus far our
author is perfectly in the right, andtlie reason he
gives for this opinion is very well founded : it is
the fame that was given thousands of years before
him, by Plato Socrates, and others, and has been
conltantly given by all succeeding writers in fa
vour of mixed governments, and againlt simple
ones, " because, lying open to the temptations of
" honor and profit," or, in other words, haying
their ambitijn and vanity, avaiiceand lust, hatred
and resentment, malice and revenge, in jfliort
their felt-love, and all their paifions (" which are
" fails too big for any human bulk") unrestrain
ed by any controuling power, they were at once
transported by them ; made use of their public
power not for the good of the commonwealth, but
tor the gratification of their private pallions,
whereby tliey'put the commonwealth into frequent
flames of discontent and fediiion. Thus far is
very well : but when our author goes 011, " which
" might all have been prevented, could they
" have fettled the ltate free, indeed, by placing
" an orderly fuccedion of supreme authority in
" the hands of th<; people," he can be followed
by 110 one who knows what is in man, and in
society—because that supreme authority falls out
of the whole body into a majority at the firft vote.
To exped: fell-denial from men, when they have
a majority in their favour, and consequently
power to gratify themselves, is to diibelieve all
history and universal experience ; it is to tiiibelieve
Revelation and the Word of God, which informs
us, the heart is deceitful above all things, and
desperately wicked. There have been examples
of (elf-denial,and will be again; but l'uch exalted
virtue never yet exilted in any large body of men
and lalted long : and our author's argument re
quires it to be proved, not only that individuals,
but that nations and majorities of nations, are ca
pable not only of a iingle aift, or a few aifts of
disinterested justice and exalted felf-denial, but
of a course of l'uch heroic virtue for ages and ge
nerations ; and not only that they are capable of
this, but that it is probable they will pra<flife it.
There is 110 man lo blind as not to lee, that to
talk of founding a government upon a fuppofiti
-011 that nations and great bodies of men, left to
themselves will practiie a course of felf-denial,
is either to babble like a new-born infant, or to
deceive like an unprincipled impoltor. Nedham
hasliimfelf acknowledged, in leveral parts of this
•work, the depravity of men in very ftrongterms.
In this fifth reafonhe avers " temptations of 11011-
" our and profit to be fails too big for any human
" bulk." Why then does he build a system on
a foundation which he owns to be f'o unliable ?
If his mind had been at liberty to follow his own
ideas and principles, he must have seen that a
fuccelfion of supreme authority in the hands of
the people, by their house of representatives, is
at firlt ail ariltocracy asdefpotical as a Reman se
nate, and becomes an oligarchy even sooner than
thatallembly fell into the decimvirate. There is
this infallible disadvantage infucha government,
even in companion with an hereditary ariltocra
cy, that it lets in vice, profligacy and corruption,
like a torrent, with tyranny ; whereas the latter
often guards the morals of the people with the
utmost leverity : even the despotism of arilto
cracy prelerves the morals of the people.
(To be continued.J
An ESSAY on FREE TRADE and. FINANCES.
[Continued from No. XXVI.J
I come now to the confide ration of the prac
ticability of the mode of taxation which I propo
lied, ami which 1 do conceive is a matter of ca
pital weight in this di scullion, for which I do re
ly on these two grand propositions. ilt. That
whatever is the real, great interest of the peo
ple, they may, by proper measures, be made to
believe and adopt: And, 2d. That whatever is
admitted to be a matter of common and important
interest, in the general opinion of the people,
may be easily put in practice, by wisdom, pru
dence, and due management of the affairs. I do
contend, that when this tax is fairly proposed to
the public, with a proper elucidation of the evils
it avoids, and the advantages which result from
it, it will not be looked on as a burden of opprel
fion, aniinpolition of power, but as the purchase
of our molt precious blelfings, as a measure abso
lutely neceilary to our molt cliential and impor
tant interelts ; therefore any attempt to avoid this
tax, by smuggling or any other way, will be
deemed by general consent, anatft of meanness ;
an avoidance of a due share of the public burden;
si ultrating the neceilary plans of public fafety,
and rendering ineffectual the public measures
adopted by general conlent, for the public secu
rity, tranquility and liappinefs. isucli an action
implies in it gieat meanness of character in the
agent, and a high crime against the State, and
the detection of it will be conlidered as a very
material service to the commonwealth. Where
any actions are deemed crimes, scandals and nui
sances by the general voice of the people, detec
tions and informations against them are reputa
ble ; they cease to be infamous—the infamy of an
informer does not take place in such instances.
The reasons of governmental measures ought
always to attend their publication lb far as to af
ford good means of conviction to the people at
large, that their objeCt and tendency is the public
good. This greatly facilitates their execution
and success. 'Tis hard governing people against
their interests, their persuasions, and even againlt
their prejudices. 'Tis better to court tlicir un
derltaiuhngs lirlt withreafon, candor and sinceri
ty, and we may be almolt lure all their pailions
will follow loon. I abhor a mysterious govern
ment. I think an adminiltration, like a private
man, which affeifts to have a great many iecrets
that must not be explained, has generally agreat
many faults which will not bear telling ; or a great
deal of corruption, which will not bear exami
ning. Government, like private persons, may
indeed have l'ecrets, which ought to be kept so ;
but in that cafe, caution lhoulii be used against
any intimations or hints getting abroad, even
that there are such l'ecrets, or any lecrets:
for this would produce an anxious enquiry and
folicitousinfpeCtion, which mightmake the keep
ing thefecret more difficult, and besides bring on
many other inconveniencies arising from imm
berlefs apprehensions, which such acircumftance
would give birth to. An oltentatious given out
that there are mighty l'ecrets in the cabinet, or
many myitcries in the State that must not be pry.
Ed too clofcly into, is the very contrary of all this,
and generally is a sign of a weak adminiltration,
and not seldom of a corrupt one; Lut of n
lie measures, which require explanations'r/f"
people, that of taxes, which touches their
ney, which is always a very sensible pa a tto '
Hand as chief; and to make these <r 0 ' R:; - v
thing well, 'tis always neceilkry to tore-id ,
verlal conviction, ill. That the money
in taxes is neceflary for the public , ,
2 dly, 1 hat it will certainly be fX) >' ® 1
only on the objects for which 'tis a Iked aucUivl,
and if these two things are really °.i '
will rarely be much difficulty in making iw" 6
be believed through the moll sensible part oftl!"
commonwealth ; but of these two things e J
are not really true, or not really and geneJk
beheved, I dont know that a 11 anding army v, u( ,|d
be fufhcient to collect the taxes. I ain 0 f 0 • •
on their force, authority and influence Hketh
conquelb of the British army, would last „ 0 lT
germ any place than they staid to fupporti-
When ever they ilrall go away, I i mag f„ e the L ;
will find that they have left behind themi:ifi n i tt :
ly more abhorrence than obedience amon® the
people. Though lam clearly of opinion°that
there mult exilt an ultimate force or power of
compulsion in every effective and good govern
ment, yet 'tis plain to me, that such force is ne
ver to be put in a<ftion against the general convic
tion or opinion of the people ; nor indeed do 1
believe it es er can be so exercifed,with fuccefsand
final efl'eifl, for every attempt of this kind tends to
convulsions and death. Such an ultimate force in
deed ought to fall upon and correct tliofe whofia
against the peace, interest and security of the
public, but this can be done with fafety and ad
vantage only in cases where the crime pumfhed
is against the opinions, the sentiments and moral
or political principles, which generally prevail
in the people ; for if the moll violent declaimer
and mover of feditioh in a government, fliould
happen to be received by the people as a patriot,
and his harangues fliould be eagerly adopted a?
the doctrines of their liberties and rights, anyat
tempt topunilh him would be in vain or ufeleft;
foreitherthe people would interpose and refcije
him, or if he was puniihed, they would consider
hnn as the martyr of their cause, and thereby the
public uneasiness, tumult and uproar would be
augmented.
(To be continued.J
THE NATIONAL MONITOR. No. XIV.
" Self-love but fcrves the virtuous mind to wake.
As the lmall pebble stirs the peaceful lake ;
The centre mov'd, a circle straight succeeds.
Another still, and still another spreads;
Friend, parent, neighbour, fii ft it will embrace,
Its country next; and next all human race ;
Wide and more wide, th' overflowings of the mind
Takes ev'ry creaturc in of, ev'rv kind ;
Earth imiies aiound with boundlcfs bounty blest,
And Heav'n beholds its image in its brcaft."
THE words local attachment, an J partial pr?->
judices,have hadfuch a peat rung upon them, that the)
now jornt the mojt uncertain and confufed found ima
ginable : But so far at they are understood with
any precifton, they convey an idea that is almtfi itn'i
verfally reprobated—with how much reason will a(-
pear, when it is considered that very jew of the hw
man race are without those attachments and preju
dices ; and if they generally were, the condition of
humanity would be altered infinitely for the worse.
The truth is, those attachments are interwoven lit
the very texture of our natures by the Author of Ex
ijtence, and subserve the mo ft valuable and important
purposes ; to these we are indebted for the noblejl ex
ertions of the human mind, and they prove the fpritl
of the fine ft enjoyments of life.
There are but few minds so capaciously formed, is
to embrace the interests of a large community, in such
manner as to enter into all their enjoyments and dif
trejfes, with those lively sensations which fyvipathy ex
cites for a friend, a family, or a neighbourhood. It"
generally true, that in proportion to the txpanfion if
what is called the philanthropic principle, in the fane
proportion it is faint and inoperative—and a perfo"
totally dejlitute of local and partial attachments, viill
want the amor patria in the bejl sense of the words.
It is not intended by these remarks to advocate a eon
trafted and felfifh principle—they are not dejigned
to fanftion that local policy, which shuts up the oejt af
fections of the heart, and confines every benevolent
wish to the spot where we were bom, or to the par
ticular circle with which we happen to be more particu
larly connelled.—They are dejigned to abate that
ardour of spirit which proscribes all partialities and
predilections,however jnftjfiable ; for we deceive our-
J'eves byf'ppofing that : heje attachments can be anni
hilated, or that it wouldJerve any valuable pnrpofe
life if they could.
As in the genera! administration of human affairs,
the be ft interejt of society is promoted by every indivi
dual's purfutng with steadiness, andperjeveranc ' their
own particular advantage in conformity to the laws---
so the great objects of patriotism are mojt essential'/
advanced, by the attachments which are difcovere ty
every person to the state, the country, the town,
neighbourhood, the family, &c. with which they are
more immediately connefied—this is nature,reafon/' 1
common sense.
PubliJhed by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, MA / ID p EN '
Lane, near tlic Ofwcgo-Markct, NeWtYork.—'[3«*