[No. XXV.]
the TABLE T. No. XXV.
i< ft is the humour of many people to be Jmgular in
their dress and manner of life, onlyr to the end that
they may be taken■ more notice of."
THE desire of being distinguished is so strong,
that Tonic men had rather be ridiculed, than
not to be noticed at all. Those who set them
selves upas a gazing stock to the rabble, and ex
cite a species of" admiration by affecting some fri
volous distinction from other people, are under
the influence of the ineaneft kind of ambition.
Nothing can sooner destroy the real refped.abili
ty ot a man, than an affectation of Angularity in
opinions or customs, which are in themselves in
different. But Ido not know a more ridiculous
fliape that ambition and vanity can allumc, than
when it prompts people to depart from common
faihion in their dress and style of living. 1 here
are obvious advantages from having some uni
formity established in the customs, which relate
to our commontranfacftions in lite. Those there
fore who depart from them, may in some measure
be considered as disturbers of the tranquility of
other people. . . .
Some persons are too apt to refine in their ideas
of following the dictates of found judgment.
They will fay that no wife man will trouble him
i'elf to pursue any cuftoin, however public it may
be, unless some reason can specially be offered in
its'favour. This rule fliould be reversed, and in
all indifferent matters, one fliould follow the
fafhion,unlefs some special reason can be alledged
against it.
To differ from the reft of mankind in any im
material thing may indicate more pride or ill hu
mour than others poflefs, but it is 110 mark of su
perior understanding. There must be a degree
of indiscretion in every instance of Angularity,
that does not originate in duty or convenience.
I evenqueftion whether a man is not under obli
gations to fall in with, or at any rate, not to op
pose the established customs of society, unless he
believes them uureafonable or inconvenient.
This probably will never be the cafe, for I doubt
whether the prevailing taste and feelings of the
community may be looked upon as altogether ar
bitrary and capricious. When'any custom predo
minates, for a confiderablc length of time, it is
a tolerable evidence, that there is some founda
tion in reason for its exiftenctf,. though perhaps
the real advantages of it may not be perceived or
acknowledged.
(N. B. In Tablet No. 24, second line of second paragraph,
for " mankind 1 ' read mnnhood.\
FOR TIIE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
\IR. FENXO,
I Shall fend you orcafionallv extracts from a performance that I
havern my hands, which I conceive will correspond with the ge
neral dctign of your paper.
"OWE SO MAN ANY TIIIXG."
THE motto is an injnnftion from fcripture,and like many other
phages otthatfaered depofitot moral and divine indru&iou,con
tains oneof the molt ufelul lessons of human life.
I Ihall mention the nicft likely means ot paying what we owe.
The firft mean is diligence in bufmefs : Mod men depend on
ni'finef* for an honed livelihood—success in which depends on
"rly attention, skill and diligence—a due distribution oi time and
labor, and a punctual adherence to our calling, are means of dili
£cnce : Yield not to languor, the importunity of companions, or
a taflc for plcafure however innocent, so far as to break an en
gagement, or neglect the duties of your profeflion.
There are a few profefiions where the reward is not in exact
proportion to diligence. Servantsof the public, and the clergy,
avc uluallv a fixed salary. If a sense of duty does not influence
em, theymay consider diligence as a mean of advancement, and
«'™e negligence, of degradation: If negligence is indulged it
* ' 00n grow extreme. They may furtherconfider, that a habit
H 10 duties of their office, will graduallyextend to
' e ' r i "Omellic affairs, and all will go into difordcr.
. * 'econd mean ot paying what we owe, is frugality, or the
P x pence. Many tr::des depend on small pro
,lnd the ordering a houlhold is a detail of minute particulars.
d <M'thfnall things,Jhall fall by little and little.
hey who have families, and a growing expence, mud (tudy to
'egii ate them so as to render to all their due. It is oneof the du-
M the connubial (late to unite in this study.
tnh *7' rtuous . woman it is said, the heart of her husband doth fjfel)
, 11 f r; while providing for his family abroad, he trulls in her
■'tnpment at home.
W " S o °d a nd not evil all the days of her life ; her
* 'ga itv is not interrupted by fits of sloth, nor fruftrated by fits
She ipoieth well to her hovfhold ; takes the charge
h, ', Vf j 'g" 1 of everything with a watchful eye. She tvorketh with
k. p "i ,j' nclt "er eating the bread of idleness herfelf, nor allowing
" dcmeftl « " eat it.
nrov." re ?° U ' > 1?' n ' 0 P' ant or to build, it isprudent to count and
u Hi. C 'l C ° i his hovfe with other men's money,
ove r -t gathereth ItrmJe/JJltmes for the tomb of his burial.
or • 11"tu ° undertakings in hulbandry, or trade,
jL,,-, ™ ornaments of a house. and the pleasures of the table,
hcnr'i CT Pnee, and the fruit of the labour of every
ofdiborn me> j°/ P ? V!"S wll at we owe, is exaflnefs. The fruits
a ™ frugality may be loft by confufion : " Put all in
Ttris i >' " n "f Syrac) that thougiveft out, or received in."
Hatteri ft. c ? 10ri ®' °f what weowe, it is a mean of knowing how
Srrny , '" ' ar " where the danger lies. If there appears a ten
fitteu to retren h rev ' ew a " 'h* articles, and judge where it is
WEDNESDAY, July 8, 1789.
To finifh one thing, before beginning another, to put everything
m its place, to keep dilcharges, and vouchers, are apparently small
matters; and yet by being duly attenoed to, much time is saved,
the reputation ot honesty is maintained, which often fuffers by de
rangement—much trouble, many loiTes, disputes and law suits are
avoided.
Jixatlnefs among friends and relations is a mean of preserving
love, friends and relations, in the flov/ of mutual affection, may
think exadlneli unnecessary; but affeftjpn ebbs Sigain, and felfifti
nels returns. When an account (landing and perplexed,
both fides are apt to be fufpic:ous : %pu?picion of one who was
truited and loved, cuts deeip. Quart* Is among relations are the
bane ot exiflence. Many ot those quarrels may be avoided by
exatt accounts. (Thefubjttl to be continued,)
FROM THE MASSACHUSETTS CENTJNEL.
B. Russell,
SOME eminent modern patriots have pointed out the imminent
DANGER ot 11TLES ; but I think tiiey don't go far enough;
and therefore to complete their good design, I propose to make
one sweep of the whole feed, arms, legs, and toes of aristo
crats and tyranny, by knocking away *<i the rubbish and ftaff o1
TiTLisat one stroke, that nothing may emain to dim theeternai
reign of liberty. Henceforth, let US, (I mean the true uncon
taminated whigs) lisp nothing tht pure names of men. How
ever high in office, they are still Jervants to the people, (but wemufl
even take care how we talk or make ute of the word Jervunt in thu
fenfc, Iclt tyranny Ihould creep in at tins end of the horn) and
therefore plain John Anybody thould be our address.
It is not enough that we avoid the tit'es of Majejty, Excellency,
Honorable, Esquire, &c. but in short cfery thing.—Mr. fignifies
Majler, leads to llavery;— away with it. No
verends, nor V. D. M's, nor A. M's, nor Mrs, or Mtfs, —for wc
may be enslaved by petticoats as well as breeches.
Now I defy any Anftrocrat to (how me a country ever ensla
ved where there never were any titles f These are the feed of the
political white weed, which overspreads the fair fields of creation
—for M/henJome wear titles, the people will think they are not all
'.qual, and it equality is loft, the scale of liberty kicks the beam.
Wherefore every man Ihould think himfdf equal (at least, perhaps
a little better! to any man in tiie nation. This 1 call the pure,
anadulterated spirit of freedom. In such a State, I'll warrant there
will be no Anjtocrats to cloud the political sky, but fun, moon
»nd flars will fhme clear, and forever. ARGOS.
FOREIGN ARTICLES*
LONDON, APRIL 14,
1 he Marefchal de Noailles has, without any ap
plication whatever, iilued an ordinance, dated the
Sth of March, in which he renounces his exclu
ive right of the chafe and game in the environs of
"erignan ; and declares, that in future all pro
prietors of lands and eitates, in that diftridt, lliall
lave free liberty to infpetfl, destroy, or otherwise
ake, Inch game on their lands,as they may think
lie belt means for improving and cultivating the
fame.
The Pacha of Tangiers fuminoned all the
consuls to attend him on the 13th of February,
n order to declare the pacific intentions of his
nailer, who has iignified, that he willies to live
in harmony with the world ; and therefore,
when any nation wilhes to break this peace, theer
will be four months notice given of the fame
Mr. Pitt's great and good name extends itfelf
every where. All who before thought he want
ed discrimination in his attachments, now begin
to acknowledge that he wants that no longer :
while his adversaries talk of his persecution and
hard heartednefs. Lenity to bad men is cruelty to
those who arc otherwise.
Yesterday morning Lord Petre, Sir Henry En
glefield, and Mr. Farmer, had a conference with
the minister, concerning the business which has
been some time in agitation to be brought be
fore Parliament, for ealing the buthen of the
Englilh Catholics, by taking off the double land
tax, &c.
By the last advices received from Copenhagen,
by Mr. Zinck, his Danifli Majelty's Consul at
Liverpool, it is certain that the Daniih Court is
peaceably disposed, and only will alHik the Huf
fians with twelve fail of the line, as ftipulatedby
the new subsisting treaty. They are now insur
ing veflels at Copenhagen at theufiial peace pre
mium, which indicates 110 immediate rupture
with Sweden.
The Rufiian army in Finland amounts to 53,000
nren.
Extract of a letter from Conflaiitir.ople, February 8.
" An amazing atftivity reigns at present in the
arfcnal ; the workmen employed there amount
to about ;000, exclnfi\e of the officers who pre
side over them. The Captaine Pacha, who has
the sole direction of thele affairs, pafles one part
of the day in encouraging the workmen by his
presence, and exciting them to it by his severity.
The leait ihadowof idleness ispunifhed immedi
ately, and those who seem refractory are putto
death. From what we can fee, this Admiral en
joys the fame favor with the Sultan as he did be
fore his departure for the Black Sea. He has
within these weeks augmented the number oi
those who are charged with the police of the ca
pital during the night, and has given them Itritfi
orders to observe the proceedings of the inhabi
tants who arc walking or (pending their time ir
alchoures, and every person who is fufpetftetl is
taken up,and without further examination thrown
into the sea."
\_PubliJhed on Wednesday and Saturday
May 2. On Wednesday last the gold medal
was voted by the society, for the encouragement
of arts toCapt. Peckingham of the navy, for his
valuable invention of Aeeringafhip, by an appa
ratus that can be fitted to the mast in afecond, in
the event of a rudder being carried away in a
florin.
May 4. At Paris, there as been an alarming
infurredtion—A capital manufacturer having un
intentionally offended the common labourers,
they aflembled in great numbers to pull down his
works, &c.—He applied to the military for pro
tection—the military came, and were attacked
bv the mob, who killed several of the soldiers—
The military were then reinforced, and a dread
ful slaughter ensued, in which more than 600
persons -were killed. The scene was the Fa
bourg de St. Antoine.
We learn by accounts from Nemours, that the
bailiage of that quarter have nominated their de
puties for the ensuing meeting of the States Ge
neral. The viscount Noailles has been elected
representative of the Noblefle, and the following
articles form a small part of his inAructions from
that order for his conduct at the national allembly.
" The wish of the noblefle of the bailiage, be
fore any other subject be entered upon, is, that
the individual liberty of Frenchmen should be
guaranteed, comprehending under this idea, a
right to go, return from, and remain in, any
part, within or-without the kingdom, they think
proper, without being subject to solicit perinifiion
for that purpose; submitting, nevertheless, to
the determination of the States-General such ca
ses where it may beneceflary to restrain a liberty
of leavingthe kingdom. That the liberty of the
press should be granted, under such reflrietions
as the States-General may judge proper.—That
at the meeting of the states poAerior to the ap
proaching aflembly, the two flrft orders shall be
united in one and the fame chatriber, wilder thg
express condition that this chamber, formed of
the two firft orders, shall be coinpofed of one
member of the clergy to two of the noblefle ; and
that then every object proposed in the firft and
second chamber may be equally proposed, reject
ed or accepted, in the other, in such manner
that the free consent of the separate chamber shall
be neceifary to give the force of law to every sub
ject deliberated therein. In cafe of war, change
of reign, or regency, the States-General lhall be
convoked in fix weeks.—The periodical return
ot the slates to be fixed at two years; reckonino
from the end of the foregoing'aflembly.—Mini"
fters shall be accountable to the States-General
for the employment of the funds confided to
them, and responsible to the States-General in
all matters relative to the laws of the kingdom.
There shall be no denial of juflice in any cafe 01*
to any person.—No loan, under whatever form
it maybe, circulating paper, office or commifiion,
of any nature whatsoever, shall be created or ef
tabliihed but by the will or consent of the nation
aflembled.—The States-General shall attend to
the. vexations and abused government of the mi
litia, the effects of which are eflentially prejudi
cial to agriculture. The States-General should
as soon as possible determine on the fuppreflioii
of the capitaineries, as they form a jurifdicftion
foreign to the laws of the kingdom, are a mani
feft violation of the sacred right of property, and
which many persons who exercise those usurped
privileges use in a cruel and oppreflive manner.
The King's chafe and that of the Princes to be
reduced to the simple right of chafe within the
limits of the lands and seigniories of their do
mains. The abolition of the Franc Fief to be
demanded of the States-General. To exert
themselves to effect an annihilation of the destruc
tive impost of the Gabelle : and that there be in
the provinces but one weight and measure."
1 hat noble entliufiafm which always exists in
the authors and inventors of ufeful and agreea
ble arts, is easily excited by public applause, but
is too often forced to waste itfelf in obfeurity, and
in unavailing struggles to overcome vulgar pre
judices again A all new inventions. There per
haps never was an lera when the spirit of im
provements of all kinds was carried further than
at present ; nor when there was more ingenious
men in all branches of the arts. We apprehend
that an account of new improvements will be
acceptable sometimes, also intermixed with an
account of the inventors.
Sir Richard Arkwriglit was originally a barber,
at Preston, in Lancashire, and shaved for a penny.
Having been imprisoned for some doubtful con
duct at acontefted election, in the gaol he formed
the plan of his celebrated machine for preparing
and spinning cotton. It was a considerable time
before he could procure money to set up his ma
chine. An old cuAomer of his, who had a me
chanical turn, was persuaded to join with him.
He carried on his improvement with so much vigor, that even although he loft part of his patent,
his income from his mills before the great failure
lalt year, amounted, to a revenue of 40,0001. per
annum.
Watts and Bolton. Mr. Watts is a native of
Scotland. He was not bred to mechanics ; but
to the conftruc r tion of mills, and the application
of lteam to machinery, has made improvements,
of which the use to the arts are unlimited. And
what renders his merit the greater, is, that his
improvements are not the efteJt of accident, but
of long and persevering investigation, depending
wholly upon fcientific principles. He has ob
tained a patent, in which Mr. Bolton is included,
and in a few years will eftablilh a revenue of
10,000 per annum.
May 5. The report of the Emperor of Ger
many's death, was again very prevalent in town
yesterday, but no official accounts were received.
After the election of Caen, the Duke de Coigny
gave a grand entertainment to the Three Orders :
during the del'ert, the Duke calling to a fanner
of Falaife, who is one of the deputies of the
lower order, said, " Well Mr. Poullain, as you
are about to lit in our national alleinbly, have
you thought of the requisition you are to make ?"
" Certainly, my Lord," and what do you mean
to propose ? " First of all, I lh»ll require the
suppression of pigeons, rabits and friars." Af
ter a hearty laugh, occasioned by this odd sally,
he was alked his reasons. " Why, said he, the
pigeons destroy our corn in the feed, the rabbits
in the blade, and the friars in the Jhock."
May 6. The French Court, by an order of
Council, dated the 20th ult. to be in force from
the Ift of May to the Ift of September, have dou
bled the bounties, granted by that of the 11 tli of
January, upon the importation of corn and meal
from the different parts of Europe, and extend
ed to importations by the frontiers. The pre
sent bountiej are, 50 sols per quintal on wheat,
40 sols on wheat flour, 34 sols on rye, 32 sols on rye
flour, 20 sols on barley, 2 7 sols on barley meal ;
and all vellels without diftindiion, which within
that time lhall import any corn of the species above
mentioned, fliall be exempted from freight duties.
MAY 7.
POLI PICAL DISQUISTIONS.
Europe is at this day divided into several parties,
\vhofe intereits are so complicated, it is fcarely
possible to establish an equilibrium betwixt them.
The American revolution has originated two
fatftions.
011 the one fide, France and Spain—on the
other fide England. ,
England has also drawn Holland and Prussia in
to her party.
As ftrangcrsto this contest, Germany and the
other northern states preferv ea neutrality.
But they likewile form two confederacies
The one conlifting of Pruflia and the other states
of Germany, who league for the purpole of
checking the Emperor's encroachments :—And
the other between the latter and the Empress,
whole stipulations bind them to such defenfive
operatione as the last confederacy may' occasion,
and both to offenfive measures against Turkey.
England and Spain are alirioft wholly uncon
cerned in these two leagues—France alone can
consider herlelf interested in them ; but in cafe
fhefhould engage herfelf in these consequences,
what aid would Ihe derive from Turkey ?
Supposing, notwithstanding the consanguinity
of the Houses of Aultria and Bourbon, and the
complaints of France against Rulfia,France should
accede to the Germanic League, Turkey must
remain ufelels to the latter power, because Rulfia
would always keep a check over her, and could
also harrafs Sweden and Prulfia.
But is it to be supposed, that England wouldnot
seize an opportunity of avenging the injuries that
wei e rendered her in America ?
On Sunday fe'nniglit an unlucky accident hap
pened at the Caiile d'Efcompte, at Paris. A
courier with the King's livery arrived, and alked
foroneofthe Directors, M. Vincent, to whom a
letter was addreiled, signed Neckar, and l'ealed
with that Minister's arms. The purport of the
letter was, that the said M. Vincent, was desired
to deliver to the bearer 100,000 livres (5000 I.)
for the use of his Majesty. Upon enquiry the
signature was forged, that is to fay, Mr. Neckar's
Secretary's hand was imitated to a wonder. As
none would presume to wear the King's livery,
various are the conjectures about this extraordi
nary occurrence.
AMERICAN AFFAIRS.
kincston, (Jamaica) may 16.
Extrafl of a letter from Aux-Cayes, dated 26th Ma\, 1789,
" We have the honor to inform you that ilus port has beea
made tree for the importation, by vessels of all nations, of ne-
S'ocs, fait provisions, flour, and every other species of merchandise
hitherto prohibited—and the exportation of the produce of the
colony, cotton, coffee, indigo, &c. under no other rellriflions
rhan paying the fame duties as the fubje£t> of Francc—this privi
>• >;c commences the firfl day of August next, and is to continue
ior the termot five years—We congratulate you upon this appear
ance of unson by commercial ties, &c."
NASSAU, [N. P.] JUNE 6.
The Underwriters at New Lloyd's Coffee-lioafe,
in London, lately presented to Capt. Todhunter,
of Wliite-Haven, a piece of Plate, on which
was an inscription, teilifying the sense
they had of liis animated exertions, in relieving
the lhip Ellen, bound from New-Providence to
Liverpool, when in the greatest distress, and of
his generous, humane attention to the pailengers
and crew.
FR EDE R I CKSBU R GH, JUNE 25.
We learn that very material injury has been done to the wheat
and other imall gram in the lower parts of the counties of Orange
and Culpepper, and the upper part of Spotlylvania, by a very se
vere storm of hail which happened the 17th inft.
PHILADELPHIA, JULY 2.
A ton of pot-alh [manufactured by MtlTrs Boyd and Willfon,
of Northumberland county] is now in this city, and of so good a
quality, that 401. has been offered for it, and refufed.
Of near 2000 of citizens of the United States who lately emi
grated to Carthagenai in Spanilh America, only 140 have returned,
the reft having all died, except a few men who cnliftcd in tin
Spaniih aimy.
boston, July i.
In the Hospitals and Foundlings in Paris, there
are daily maintained, on an average, 35,341 —r
number which to the whole inhabitants of the
city is as i to ißi.
GEORGIA-
Harrafl'ed as Ihe is, by the faithlefs bipeds of
the wilderness, mull look up to the Federal Go
vernment for succour and support. And who
shall fay, that the jlrong arm of the Union wil
not be ftretclied out, in the defence of so federal
and patriotic a branch of the grlat family.
COMMERCIAL.
The odious Guinea trade, is one of tliemoft ad
vantageous branches of traffickwe enjoy—itfur
nilhes us a ready market for our country rum, &c.
European veflels frequently load therewith in
our own ports. One lhip which is now taking
her cargo on board, will pay therefore near 20,000
dollars.
middletown, June 20.
The General Afl'embly of this State, in May
last, palled a resolve, That all further proceed
ings, by virtue of, or under the licence granted
to certain persons in New Haven county, to ma
nufacture copper coin, be, and the fame is sus
pended from and after the 20th June, instant,
until the riling of the General Afl'embly in Octo
ber next.
NEW-YORK, JULY 8, 1789.
IMPOST LAW OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.
4n ACT for lading a DUTY on GOODS, WARES, and MERCHAN
DIZE imported into the UNITED STATES,
WHEREAS, it is necessary for the support of government,
for the dilcharge of the debtsof the UnitcdStates,and the encourage
ment and protc&ion of manufactures, that duties be laid on goods,
wares, and merchandize imported :
Be it enabled by the Senate and Iloufe of Representatives of the United
States of Amcrica in Congress ajfembled, That from and after the firft
day ot August next ensuing, tne fcveral duties herein after mention
ed shall he laid on the following goods, wares and merchandize
imported into the United States, from any foreign port orplace—
that is to fay : tents.
On all distilled spirits of Jamaica proof, imported from £
any kingdom or country whatsoever, pr. gallon. J 10
On all other diitilled lpirits, - ° pr. gal. 8
On molasses, - - p r . gal. 2 J
On madeira wine, - - pr. gal. 18
On all other wines, - pr.gaL 10
On every gallon of beer, ale, or porter in calks, ' 5
On all cyder, beer, ale, or porter in bottles, pr dozen, 20
On malt, _ _ p r bujhel, 10
Ou brown sugars, - . . pr. pound, 1
On loaf sugars, - . . pr. pound, 3
On all other sugars, - - - pr. pound, '1J
On coffee, - p r . p QUnd , 2 £
011 cocoa, - p r p oun( j f 1
Onall candles of lallow, - - pr. pound, 2
On all candlcs of wax or spermaceti, p r . pound 6
Oncheefe, . . . pr. pound, 4
On soap, - - - - pr. pound, 2
On boots, - - p r pair, 30
On all ftioes, flippers or golofhoes made of leather, pr. pair, 7
On all (hoes or flippers of filkorftuff, - pr. pair 10
On cables, - . . pr.ii2ut. 75
On tarred cordage, - - . p r
Or. untarred ditto, and yarn, . pr. ii9nt qo
Oil twmeor pack-thread, - - fir. u tut. 200
On all steel unwrought, - . p r . 112 a,,. 56
On all nails and spikes, - . p r . pound, 1
On ialt, - . tor bufil l si
On Manufactured tobacco, . . pr. pound, 6
° n f ",f • - " - pr. pound, 10
On wool and cotton cards, - p'r/dozfn', 50
apw ' . - . • *
On dried fifh, . . . p r . qumUl \ £
On all teas imported from China or India in (hips built
in the Luted States, and belongingtoa citizen or citizens
thereof, nr in ships orvefiels built infoieign countries and
011 the 16th day of May last wholly theproperty of a citizen <"
or citizens of the United States, and (o continuing until the
time of importation, as follows :
Onboheatea, . _ , , ,
On all souchong, or other black teas, p,. p o Z'l, 'I 0
On all hyion teas, . ,
On all other green teas, tr. pound, Ti
On all teas imported fron Europe inftiipsorveffclsbu'ifi
in the United States, and belonging wholly to a citizen o r
citizens thereof, or in ships or veflTtls built ni foreign cuun- '
tries, and on the i6th day of May last wholly the property
of a citizen or citizens of the Uuited States, and so continu- I
tng until the time ot importation, as follows:
Onboheatea, - - pr. found, % uitt
On all souchong, and other black teas, pr. pound i»
•On all hyson teas, - . pr. found, 4
Oil all other green teas, - p r . pound, ,6
On all teas imported in any other manner than as above )
mentioned, as foil >ws: - - r
Onboheatea, - - pr. founds u
On all souchong, or other black teas, pr pound,
On all hyson teas, - - pr. pound] 45
On all other green teas, - p Tk pound, 27
On all goods, wares and merchandize, other than ~1
teas imported from China or India, in (hips not built j
m the United States, and not wholly the property of
a citizen or citizens thereof, norin veflelsbuilt in so- ! 12hpr.cent
reign countries, and on the 16th day of May last whol- ad valorem.
y the property of a citizen or citizens of the United
S:ates, and so continuing until the time of importa
ion, -
On all looking-glaflfs, window and other
lais, except black, quart bottles, - j
On all China, (lone and earthen ware,
On gun powder, - - - '10 pr. centm
On all paints ground in oil, - j ad valorem.
On shoe and knee buckles,
On gold and silver lace, and
On gold and silver leaf, - J
On all blank books, - - -
On all writing, printing, or wrapping paper, paper
bailings and pasteboard, -
On all cabinet wares, - - -
On all buttons, - g
On all saddles, -
On all gloves of leather, ...
On all hats'of beaver, fur, wool or mixture of either -J
On all millenary ready made,
On all callings of iron, and upon flit and rolled iron, a
On all lcathei tanned or tawed, and all manufa&ure 5
> »f leather, except such as (hall be otherwise rated,
On canes, walking (licks and whips, - jj.
On cloathing ready made, -
On all brushes, -
On gold, silver and plated ware, and on jewellery and
parte work, - -
On anchors, and on all wrought tin and pewter ware,
On all playiug cards, r - pr. pack 10 cents.
On every coach, chariot or other four wheel car-")
riage, and on every chaise, solo, or other two wheel >
carriage, or parts thereof. - - ) tm '
On all other goods, wares and raerchandife, five per centum
on the value thereof, at the time and place of importation, ex
cept as follows : Salt-petre, tin in pigs, tin plates, lead, old pew
ter, brass, iron and brass wire, copper in plates, wool, cotton,
dying woods and dying drugs, raw hides, beaver and all other
'urs and deer-(kins.
And be it Jurthcr en a fled by the authority ajorejaid, That from and
after the firft day of December, which (hall be in the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety, there shall be laid a duty on
everyone hundred and twelve pounds weight of hemp imported
as aforefaid, of fix cents; and on cotton per pound three cents.
And be it enatted by the authority aforefaid, That all the duties
paid, or secured to be paid upon any of the goods, wares, and
merchandise as aforefaid, except on distilled spirits, other than
brandy and geneva, (hall be returned or discharged upon such of
the said goods, wares or merchandise, as (hall within tweive
month* after payment made, or security given, be exported
any country, without the limits of the United States, as fettled
by the late treaty of peace; except one per centum on the amount
of the said duties, in consideration of the expence which (hall
have accrued bv the entry and fafe keeping thereof.
And be it enaaed by *lhe authority ejore said, That there (hall be
allowed and paid on every quintal of dried, and on every barrel
of pirkled fi(h, of the fifheries of the United States, and on every
barrel of salted provision of the United States, exported to any
country without the limits thereof, in lieu of a drawback of the
duties imposed on the importation of the fait employed and ex
pended therein, viz. Cents.
On every quintal of dried fi(h, 5
On every barrel of pickled HfH, - 5
On every barrel of salted provision, - - 5
And be t tfurther enactedby the authority aforefaid, That a discount
of ten per cent, on all the duties impofedf by this a&, (hall be al
lowed on such goods, wares and merchandise, as (hall be im
ported in vessels built in the United States, and which (hall be
wholly the property of a citizen or citizens thereof, or in veflels
built in foreign countries, and on the sixteenth day of May lair,
wholly the property of a citizen or citizens of the United States,
and so continuing until the time of importation.
And be i'further enacted by the authority aforefaid, That this ast
shall continue and be in force until the firft day of June, which
(hall be in the year of our Lord, one thousand (even hundred ana
ninety fix, and from thence until the end of the next
feflion of C©ngrefs, which (hall be held thereafter, and no lon
ger. Frederick Augustus Muhlenberg,
Speaker of the House of Reprefentities.
John Adams, Vtce-Prejidenl of the (JnitedStatu,
and Prefdent of the Senate.
Approved—July 4, 1789.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prefdent of the United States.
SKETCH of PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES.
Monday, July 6, 1789.
A letter to the Speaker, from His Excellency
Beverly Randolph, Governor of Virgin l3 *
enclosing an account of the exports and imports
of that State, from January 20, 1788, to Janu
ary 20, 1789, was read, and referred to the
committee appointed to prepare estimates, &c.
A memorial from Andrew Ellicott, fur*ey
or, addrefled to both Houses of Congress, intro
duced by Page —was read, and referred to a
committee consisting of Mr. Page, Mr. Scott,
and Mr. Baldwin.
A motion which had lain 011 thetablefince the
beginning of last month, for prefixing a corre
copy of the constitution of the United States, to
the firft volume of the laws, was called for •
Mr. White. The vote being taken upon t'
fame, it pafled in the affirmative, and was
to the Senate for their concurrence.
A meftage was received from The
dent by his Secretary, Mr. Lear, wlio in fori '
ed, that he was diredted by The Prefidentto r ■
turn to the Hon. House the bill, which hadpah-. i two branches of die legiflatnre Imposing
, • nneoods, wares and merchandise, lmpor-
V-nto the United States, to which the Preli
r, wl iffixed his fi{mature of approbation.
of U« whole on ,h„ bill, ,o re-
Jlate the collection of the import. _
tr jvlr, Trumbull in the Chair.
i" n-rher progress was made in the difcufllon:
the committee rose after 3 o'clock, and had leave
n set again to-morrow-Mr. Wadsworth had
leave of absence for a fortnight.
The House then adjourned to meet to-morrow
at ten o'clock.
Tuesday, io o'clock, A. M. July 7, 1789.
The House met agreeably to adjournment.
In committee of the whole on the bill, to re
julate the collection of the import. _
° Mr. Trumbull in the Chair.
Very considerable progress was made in the
further discussion of this lengthy bill this day:
but there was not fufficient time to finifli it. The
committee therefore rose
The Chairman reported progress, and aikecl
leave to fit again. . c .
A tnelfage was received from the Senate by
their Secretary, informing, that they had ap
pointed a committee to join with a committee of
the Hon. House, to examine the enrolled bill lay
in* a duty on tonnage, and to present the fame
to°The President for his approbation; also,
that they had concurred in the vote of the Hon.
House for prefixing the constitution to the pub
lication of the laws of the United States.
Mr. CoNTEE delired leave of absence for four
weeks, which was granted.
The House then adjourned till to-morrow
morning 10 o'clock.
NEW-YORK, JULYS, 1789.
anniversary of independence.
ON Saturday last the United States entered in
to the fourteenth year of their Independence:—
The day was celebrated by all daffies of the citi
zens with unusual demonstrations of joy.
OF THE CINCINNATI.
This truly refpedtable Society, excited by sen
timents which peculiarly correspond with the
great occasion, paid diftinguiiiied honor to this
anniversary.
They met at the city-tavern at 10 o'clock, and
proceeded to the election of officers for the en
fuingyear—on the ballots being examined, it ap
peared, that
The Baron Steuben, was ele&ed President.
Col. Alexander Hamilton, Vice-Prejident.
Major John Stagg, Secretary.
Col. Richard Platt, Treajurer.
Capt. Edward Dunscomb, Ajfijlant-Treafurer.
Delegates to the General Meeting in May next.
Baron Steuben, || Col. B. Li v 1 ncston,
Cen.Samuel B. Webb, |j Gen. M. Clarkson.
Col. William S. Smith. II
Standing Committee.
Capt. James Watson, Col. Sebastian Bauman,
Col.Kbimzer Stevens, Dr. John Cockran,
Col. Aquilla Giles, Col. Binjamin Walkeh,
Col. Morcan Lewis, ( Capt. Theo. Fowler,
General Matthew Clarkson.
A committee, consisting of the Baron Steuben,
their President, Colonel Alexander Hamil
ton,^;;-Vice-President, General S. B. Webb,
Col. W. S. Smith,andCol.S. Bauman,were ap
pointed to wait 011 THE PRESIDENT, the VICE
PRESIDENT, and SPEAKER of the House of
Representatives of the United States, with the con
gratulations of THE DAY : On the committee's
being introduced to THE PRESIDENT, the Baron
addrefled him in nearly the following words :
" THE Society of the Cincinnati oj the State of
New-York have dtretted this delegation to present to
pit, Sir, their sentiments of the profoujtfefl refpeCl.
common with all good citizens of the United States
«/ America, they join their ardent wishes for the pre
ftnation of your life, health, andprofperity.
" In particular, they feel the highefl fatisfaftion
contemplating the illujlrious Chief of our armies,
f "''unanimous vote of an independent people, eletlcd
to the highejl llation that a dignified and enlightened
country can bejioiv.
Under your conduct, Sir, this Band of Soldiers
'itre led to glory and to conquefl, and we feel ourselves
""filent, that under your adminijlration, our coun
ty will speedily arrive at an enviablt (late of pros
perity and happiness
In answer to which the President was pleased
to fay— r
fn" 1 l ' g
you, Gentlemen, to return viy mofl as-
J' mate regards to the Society of the Cincinnati of
•ft ah of New-York, and ajfure them, that I receive
c " n g r atulations on this auspicious day, with a
confiautly anxious for the honour and welfare oj
"I country, andean only fay, that the force of viy a
-1 'n' 11 ' h an integrity of heart, Jball be Jludi
"J y pointed to the support of its dignity, and the pro
«ion of its prosperity and happiness."
Smvvt ommittee theu wa ited on the VICE-PRE-
Oftl uof the Un itcd States, and the SPEAKER
n ' l "i' e °f Representatives, and having re
nt aru ' re ported to the Society their flatter
ing reception from The President and Vice-Pref
dent—[the Speaker of the Hen. Houfc of Representa
tives being abjent, the Delegation was prevented pay
ing him their refpetts~\ the society proceed
ed in procession, attended by Col. Bauman s regi
ment of artillery, and bandofmufick (whose ap
pearance was truly martial) to St. Paul's Church,
where in the presence of a most refpeiftable and
brilliant audience,an elegant Eulogium on Major-
General NATHANIEL GREENE, was delivered
by Col. Alexander Hamilton. The Society
011 this occalion were honoured l>y the presence
of the Lady andFainily of The President, his in
disposition (which thanks be to Heaven has nearly
left him) preventing his personal attendance—the
Vice-Preiident, and ladies of his family—the Se
nate, the Speaker and the House of Representa
tives.
After the Eulogium, the Society returned (at
tended as before) to the city tavern, where they
appointed the Orators for the next Anniversary,
viz.
Col. B. Livingston—\_An Oration adapted to
the occafion.~]
Col. W. Smith—[An Eulogium on Gen. Mont
gomery.]
After which they fat down to an elegant din
ner, where the following toasts were drank.
1. The President of the United States.
2. The Vice-President of the United States.
3. The Senate.
4. The Speaker and House of Representatives.
5. Their Most Chriltian and Most Catholic
Majesties.
6. The Stadtholder and their High Mightines
ses the States General of the United Netherlands.
7. The Conftitution —nAy its friends be firm
and united.
8. The late Federal Convention, may their
virtue, wisdom and firmnefs, be deeply engra
ven 011 the hearts of their countrymen.
9. The Companions of our Order in France
and America.
10. The 17th of Oiflober, 1777.
11. The 19th of Oiflober, 1781.
12. The Fair friends of the Cincinnati.
13. The Day, and patriots who have confirm
ed it. •
OF THE MILITARY.
The city legion ofGen.MALCOM's brigade pa
raded at the fort in the morning, and marched
from thence, through Queen Street, into the fields,
in the following order:
Lieut. Col. Chrystie.
Cavalry, under the command of Capt. Stakes.
One piece of Artillery,
commanded by Capt. Ljeut. Stoutenburgh.
Major John Stagg.
Adjutant John Loudon.
The Battalion,
consisting of Captains Stoutenburgh's and
Scriba's Grenadiers.
Capt. Le Roy's, Capt. Sw/rtwout's,
Capt. Vredenburgh's, Lieut. Rutger's, Capt.
Livingston's, and Capt. Stepdiford's
companies of Light Infantry.
One piece of Artillery,
commanded by Lieut. Suydam.
After being reviewed by a number of gentle
men of diftindtion, they went through a variety
of manoeuvres and firings, with great pronipti
tude and exadtnefs, and made a brilliant and sol
dierly appearance. On their return from the
parade,they pafiedthe houfeof The Presidbnt,
who appeared at his door in a fuitof regimentals,
and was laluted by the troops as they pafled. His
indisposition deprived the troops of the honor
and fatisfadtion of being reviewed by him in the
field.
At noon afalute was fired from the fort by Col.
Bauman.
At four o'clock the officers fat down to an en
tertainment provided for them at Mr. Faunces'
in Cortland street, when toasts suited to the oc
casion were drank.
At the third toast viz: The President of
the United States, agreeably to invariable cuf
toni, the officers rose and saluted it with three
cheers ; and the band immediately gave General
Washington's inarch. Truly charadteriftic of the
principles on which the order of the Cincinnati
is founded ; and defignative of the sentiments
which adtuate tliofe who from republican mo
tives, in peace, prepare for war, there was a
mutual interchange of refpedlful attentions be
tween the gentlemen at Bardin's, and those at
Fraunces' tavern, congratulating each other 011
return of this Anniversary, so dear to every in
dependent American.
The business of Legiilation for this extensive
continent opens a boundless field of contempla
tion to the refledlingmind. When it isconfider
ed what a variety of objedisis presented to the at.
tention of our civil fathers—how apparently dis
cordant the interests of the fevcral States—what
deep rooted prejudices exist in the minds of many
upon this fubjedt; producing consequences which
give as it were a real existence to this incompati
bility of interests—the extensive and complicate
nature of those systems which are neceflary in ar
ranging the finances—eftablilhing the great exe
cutlve departments—forming plans of revenue,
anil fixing the regulations inseparably connected
with thole plans—and all these to be so far adapt'
ed to the habits and dispositions of the people of
the leveral States as to secure a fuccefsful opera
tion to the new government; 1 fay, when these
things are properly considered, it will appear,
that abilities, labour, patience, and deep invelti
gation, are requilite on the part of administra
tion ; and candonr, good humour, and a reafou
ble acquiescence are equally required from the
people, to give efficacy to the laws, aiid success
to the work of their own hands.
At this important and highly interesting per
iod of the American history, the publican hid
lliould be conltantly attentive to the great objec r ts
that present themlelves on every hand—the fu
ture operation of that system of government which
the people have adopted, will receive a tincture
from the reception which it firft meets with from
the collective body of the citizens : Every polfi
ble method is taken to convey to all parts of the
Union, the earliest and molt authentic informa
tion ofgovermental proceedings—the springs, the
motives on Which public decisions are founded are
fully disclosed—so that it evidently appears, that
the real interests of the people are the principal
obje<t of pursuit to those whom the people have
deputed to fuperintCnd their concerns—and it
rationally follows, that a full acquiescence in their
determinations will give a tone, a complexion to
the government of the Union, which shall ensure
the dignity, prosperity, and 'liappinefs of this'
great people.
Government is perhaps as difficult a subject as
any upon which the faculties of the human mind
can be employed.—For although it is evidently
defignedto be the medium of almost every blefl
ing, that gives worth to existence, yet too many
are difpofedto confiderit as the result of human
we3knefs, and an unhappy necellity.—This sen
timent has found so many fuccefsful advocates,that
there is reason to fuppofe,the contrary opinion will
require the long continued labors of the patriotto
obtain an universal afcendency—butthis difficulty
is not the most formidable that the friends of go
vernment have to encounter :—The infinite va
riety of ideas, as to the best methods to obtain
the best ends, which prevail in the minds of
those who subscribe to the sentiment, that go
vernment is the effect of the wisdom and good
ness of divine providence, occasion great delays,
and those inefficient systems, which too general
ly defeat the public expectation.
The Impost Bill having received the signature
of The President, will soon be a Law of the
United States in operation.—The importance of
this a«thas occafioneda lengthy investigation of
its principles, and every clause has received the
fulleft difculfion ; it is therefore to be hoped, that
it will meet with universal approbation.—The
scale of the duties is formed upon that happy me
dium, which is commonly the refult'of mutual
concession, and which in matters of revenue,
experience has always proved to be just, politic
and most produitive.
The pithiness of the following remark will
recommend it to all true federaliits. " Heaven
forbid any conventions for a while ! I dread the
work of fifteen hundred reformers in the present
fludluation of sentiments. If we must at all a
mend, I pray for merely amusing amendments ;
a little frothy garnish. But why do we not ra
ther fit down as brothers, and feaft on the sub
stantial meat, for which we have fafted so long !' y
The Britifli Packet, Portland, Capt. James, is
to fail from this port the 15th instant.
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK.
Safer day. Brig Abigail Harris, Londonderry, 63 days.
Schooner N. York Packet, Barnard, Bolton, 7 day.
Sunday 4 Sloop N. York Packet* Burrows, Philadelphia.
Monday. Sloop Rambler, Peterfon* Boston, 7 days.
Tuesday. Schooner Three Friends, Whitfield, Port au Prince*
PRICE CURRENT. NEW-YORK.
Jamaica Spirits* • fif6
Antigua Rum, - *
St. Croix, do. - 479.
Country, do. - * syio,
Molafies, * 2/2. a 2fy.
Brandy, ... 5 J6. a sfq.
Geneva, ...
Do. in cases, - 2cj\f.
Muscovado Sugar, - - 56/! a 72f.
Loaf, cf». • — 1
Lump, do. • - t/tj.
Pepper, - - - - 2/8.
Pimento, • Ifg. a if
Chocolate, ...
Cocoa, * 7 5/: a Sof.
Coffee, - - iji. a 1
Indigo, (Carolina) * - 4f a 6f %
Rice, - - 23/ a 24/
Superfine Flour, - 4^
Common do. - - 42/6. a 43'
Rye do. - 26f. a 27f.
Indian Meal, -
Ryc» - - pr. bujh.
Corn, (Southern) • 3 fq. a 4J\
Do. (Northern,) - a 4/6.
Beef, firft quality, - - 48/! a 50/r
—— Second quality, - - 4 1 /o.
Pork, firft quality, * - Bi/"6.
Second quality, - • 76/6.
Hams, - - a
Carolina Tobacco, - - a
Virginia ■■■ , - « 45. <3 $d.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
[Cintinutd from No. XXIII.]
In the year 302 the ambafladors -were returned,
and Appius Claudius, whole anceftorshad always
been haughty ariltocratics, was chosen consul,
withT. Gentius for his colleague. The lenate
alfembled, andrefolved that decemviri lhould be
eledced out of the principal senators, whole au
thority should continue a year ; that they lnould
govern the commonwealth with all the power
which the consuls then had, and as the kings had
formerly exerciled, and without any appeal from
their judgments ; that all other magiltracies,and
even the tribune/hip, lhould be abolilhed. This
decree was received by the people with loud ac
clamations. An aliembly, by ccnturies, was im
mediately held, and the new magifttates created,
and the old ones all abdicated their offices. Thus
the constitution was wholly changed, and all au
thority transferred to one centre, the decemvirs.
It was soon exerciled like all other authorities in
one centre. We fee here the effects of two
powers without a third. The people from ha
tred to the consuls, and the senate from hatred
to the tribunes, unite at once in a total abolition
of the constitution.
The constitution of the decemvirs was precise
ly Nedhain's idea ; it was annually eligible ; it
was the people's government in their (uccelfive
aflemblies : But we find that an annual power,
without any limits, was a great temptation. The
decemvirs were all senators of consular dignity,
and therefore, in the opinion of the people tliem
felves, the molt eminent, lor talents and virtues ;
yet their virtues were not fufficient to secure an
honest use of their unbounded power. They
took many precautions to preserve their own
moderation, as well as to avoid excitingjealoul'y
in their fellow citizens : only one liad the rods
and axes, the others had nothing to diftinguilh
them but a lingle officer, called Accenfus, who
walked before each of them. Their president
continued only one day ; and they succeeded
each other daily, till the end of the year.—lt is
much to our purpose to enlarge upon this exam
ple ; becaule, instead of being an argument for
Nedhain's inconcinnate fyltem, it is full proof
againll it. The course of paliions and events,
in this cafe, were precisely the fame as will take
place in every simple government of the people,
by a fucceliion of their representatives, in a
lingle alfembly : And, whether that aliembly
contifts of ten members, or five hundred, it will
make no difference. In the morning,the decem
viri all went to their tribunal, where they took
cognizance of all causes and affairs, public and
private ; justice was adminiltered with all polli
ble equity ; and every body departed with per
fect l'atisfa&ion. Nothing could be l'o charming
as the regard they profelled for the interelts of
the people, and the protection which the meanelt
found against the oppression of the great. It was
now generally affirmed, that there was no occa
lion for tribunes, consuls, prsetors, or any other
magiltrates. The wisdom, equity, moderation,
and humanity of the new government, was ad
mired and extolled. What peace, what tran
quility, what happiness were enjoyed by the
public, and by individuals ! what a consolation !
what glory to the decemvirs ! Appius Claudius,
«specially, engrofled the whole glory of the ad
ministration in the minds of the people. He ac
quired lo decided an ascendency over his col
leagues, and so irresistible an influence with the
people, that the whole authority feemedcentred
in him. He had the art to diltinguifh himfelf,
peculiarly, in whatever he trail fact ed, in con
cert with his colleagues. His mildness and affa
bility, his kind condescension to the meaueftand
weakest of the citizens, and his polite attention
in saluting them all by their names, gained him
all hearts. Let it be remembered, he had, till
this year, been the open enemy of the plebeians.
As his temper was naturally violent and cruel,
his hatred to the people had arisen to ferocity.
011 a sudden he was become another man ; hu
mane, popular, obliging, wholly devoted to
please the multitude, and acquire their affedions.
Every body delighted in the government of the
decemvirs, and a perfect union prevailed among
themselves. They coinpleated the body of laws
and caufcd it to be engraved 011 ten tables :
They were ratified by the senate, confirmed by
the people in the coinitia centuriata, engraven
011 pillars of brass and placed in the forum. The
year was upon the point of expiring ; and as the
consuls and senators found themselves delivered
by the new government from the persecutions of
the tribunes, and the people from what they e
■qually hated, the authority of the consuls, both
parties agreed in the propriety of choofmg ten
iuccellors. It was pretended, that some further
laws might be still wanting ; that a year was too
ihort to complete so great a work ; and that to
carry the whole into full effetft, the independent
authority of the fame magifti acy would be neces
sary. That which rauft happen upon all annual
elections of such a government in one centre,
happened in this cafe. The city was hi a greater
and more universal ferment that liad ever been
known. Senators, the moll diftinguifued by v.ge
and merit, demanded the office ; no doubt to
prevent factious and turbulent i'pirits from ob
taining it. (To be continued.)
An ESSAY on FREE TRADE and FINANCES.
[Continued lroin No. XX.]
There may befome lew among us, of no little
weight, who are contcnt, it they can obtain the
services, to let the lervant lhift for himlelf, and
who, when they are lure of the benefit, remem
ber no longer the benefactor, and, as in this
great argument of universal concern, 1 wiih to
rind the way to every man's sense, and address
myfelf not only to those who have virtue, but
even to thole who have none, 1 will therefore
mention another advantage of this measure,
which I think will, virtue or no virtue, reach
the feelings of every man who retains the lealt
sense of interest, viz. that in this way all our pub
lic creditors would be paid and fatisfied, either by a
total diicharge of their principal, or an undoubt
ed well funded security of it, with a lure and
punctual payment of their interest, which would
be the belt of the two ; because a total discharge
of the principal at once, if fullicient money could
be obtained, would make such a sudden, so valt
an addition to our circulating cash, as would de
preciate it, and reduce the value of the debt paid
much below its worth at the time of contract, and
introduce a fluctuation of our markets, and other
fatal evils of a depreciated currency, which have
been known by experience and leverely felt,
enough to make them dreaded ; it would there
fore be much better for the creditor to receive a
certain well funded security of his debt than full
payment: for in that cafe, if he needed the calh
for his debt, he might fell his security at little
or no discount, which is the conltant prat'tice of
the public creditors in England, where every
kind of public security has its rate of exchange
fettled every day, and may benegociatedinave
ry fliort time. Supposing this lliouldbe the cafe,
ltop and fee what an amazing effect this would
have on every kind of bulinels in the country.
The public bankruptcies have been lo amazingly
great, numbers of our people have been
reduced bythemto the condition ofmenwho have
fold their ejjefls to broken merchants, who cannot pay
them, their bufmefs is lejfened, or perhaps reduced to
nothing for -want of their flock so detained from them.
Suppoling then that their flock was reltored to
them all, they would inltantly all push into busi
ness, and the proceeds of their butxnefcwould flow
through the country in every direction of induflry, and
every species of supply : in fine, the whole country
would be alive, and as it is obvious to every one,
that it is much better living in a country of brisk
business than one of ftagnatecl bufmefs, every in
dividual would reap benefits from this general
animation of indullry, beyond account more
than enough to compensate the tax which he has
paid to produce it. All these advantages hitherto
enumerated will put the labour and industry of
our people of all occupations on such a footing
of profit, and ffecurity, as would soon give anew
face to tlie country, and open such extenfiveprof
pecfts of plenty, peace and establishment, throw
into action so many sources of wealth, give such
liability to public credit, and make the burdens
of government so easy and almost imperceptable
to the people, as would make our country, not
only a molt advantageous place to live in, but
even make it abound with the richest enjoyments
and heart felt delights. These are objects ofgreat
magnitude and delirablenefs ; they animate and
dilate the heart of every American. What can
do the heart more good than to lee our country
a scene of justice, plenty and happiness ? are
these rich blellings within our reach ? can we be
lieve they are so absolutely within our power,
that they require no more than very practicable
efforts to bring us into the fullpoffelfion of them?
These blejfmgs are douktlefs attainable, if we will go
to the price of them, and that you may judge whe
ther they are worth the purchase, whether they
are too dear or not; I will give you the price cur
rent of them all, the price, which, if lionellly
paid, will certainly purchase them.
In order to have tliein, then, we mast pay
about a dollar and half a gallon for rum, brandy
and other distilled spirits ; a dollar a gallon above
the ordinary price lor wines ; a dollar and a half
for bohea tea, and about that sum above the or
dinal y price for hyson tea; a double price on
lilks of all forts, laces of all forts, and thin li
nens and cottons ol all forts, such as muffins,
lawns, cambrics, jewelery of all forts, &c. about
a dollar and third a yard above the ordinary price
for fupcrfine cloths of all forts, &c. &c. a third
of a dollar a bufiiel on fait, (for I don't mean to
lay quite all the tax on the rich, and wholly ex
cuie the poor,) about a dollar a hundred for su
gar, one tenth of a dollar a pound on coffee, the
lame on cocoa, above the ordinary price, &c. &c.
with an addition of five per cent on all articles of
importation nbr nrfmerated, except cotton, dye
woods, and other raw materials for our own
manufactures ; for wliilft importations are dilcou
raged, our own manufactures will naturally be
increased, and ought to be encouraged, or at
leaftbc diiburdened. OnthisftatCof tiier.i-'-»
I beg leave to observe, that the war itfelf for i" *
ven years part has laid a tax 011 us nearly equ-l -
the liighelt of these, and 011 i'oine articles of 1 1 °
cefliry consumption, from two hundred to"a
thousand per cent higher, such as fait, pep , )e "
alfpice, allum, powder, lead, See. & c . andvet
1 never heard any body complain of being ruined
by the war, because rum was twelve fhilWs „ cr
gallon, tea twelve shillings per pound, or Van
tua's three dollars a yard, or pepper ten UrilW
a pound, or fuperfme cloths eight dollars ayarf
&c. Nor does it appear to me, "that the country
has paid a shilling more for rum, silks, s uper .
fine cloths, &c. for the lalt seven years, than
was paid for the fame articles the l'evenpre e
ding years, i. e. the whole tax was paid by l e f
fening the consumption of these articles. Nor
do 1 think that the health, habits, or happinefa
of the country have fuffered in the leaft'ou the
whole, from its being obliged to use less of these
articles than was before ui'ual; but be this as it
may, 'tis very certain that the country has fuf!
ferecl but little from the increased price of these
articles which 1 propose to tax, except at some
particular times when those prices were raised
much higher than the point to which I propose to
raise them, i.e. at particulartimesrum has been
as high as three dollars a gallon, tea three u. 1 -
lars a pound, sugars three lhillings and fix-pence
and coffee three shillings and fix-pence a pound
mantua's four dollars a yard, &c. but 'tis obser
vable, that the principal increased prices which
have really hurt and diflrefled the country du
ring the war, have been of other articles which
I propose to tax very lightly, or not at all; such
as fait, which has at times been fix dollars a bu(h
el, and perhaps thrtfe or four dollars on an ave.
rage, coarse cloths and coarse linens, ofnabrigs,
cutlery and crockery wares, &c. which have of
ten 1 ofe to five or fix prices, and flood for years
together at three or four, and yet the burden of
these exceflive prices of even necefiary articles of
unavoidable consumption has not been so great,
if you except the article of fait, as to befomuch
as mentioned very often among the ruinous ef
fects and diflreffes of the war. The use I mean
to make of these observations is, to prove from
plain acknowledged faift, that the increased price
of the articles which I wish to tax, up to the ut
molt point to which I propose to raise them, will
be but a light inconvenience, if any at all, on
the people, and the diminished consumption of
those articles, and the increase of circulatingcalh
which will naturally and unavoidably re
iult from the tax) will be benefits which will at
leatt compensate for the burden of the tax, and
1 think 'tis very plain, will leave a balance of ad
vantage in favor of the tax. But if you should
think I conclude too llrongly, and you should
not be able to go quite my lengths in this argu
ment, so much, I think, does at leafl appear in
contellably plain, that if there is a real disadvan
tage arising from my mode of taxing, 'tis so small,
that it holds no comparison with the burden of
tax hitherto in use 011 polls and eflates, which
discourages induflry, oppresses the labourer, les
sens the value of our lands, ruins our husbandry
and manufactures, and with all these dreary
evils, cannot poflibly be collected to half the
amount which the public services requires; but to
lave further argument on this head, I will with
great aflurance appeal to the sense, the feelings
of our farmers, who make the great bulk of our
inhabitants, if they would not prefer living in a
country where they mull pay the aforementioned
increased prices on the goods I propose to tax, ra
ther than where they must part with the fame
number of cows, oxen, sheep, bu/hels of wheat,
or pounds of pork or beef, &c. which are now in
the present mode of taxing, annually demanded
of them to fatisfy the tax. I dare make the fame
appeal to all our tradesmen, and even to our
merchants, •W'who, in my opinion, would have
clear and decided advantages from my mode oi
taxing as well as the farmers. I don't fee IIOW the
merchant can be hurt by the tax; but will clearly
be benefited by it. (To be continued.)
EXPORTS and IMPORTS from and to the port <f WILMINGTON
(Delaware) from the \JI of June 1788,/;// the Ift of June 1780-
EXPORTS.
21,783 bis. fupcrfinc flour, 5>958 bushels Indian corn
457 do. common. 755 hhds. flax feed.
256 do. middlings. 60 £ tierces rice. .
346 do. ship ftutf. 46,663 feet pine boards a n
1,363 do. fhipbread. Icantling.
kegs white biscuit. 1,327 do. walnut.
238 bis. corn meal. 130*55° Haves.
205 d,o. pork. 10,300 fhinglcs.
3 do. beef. 3,789 pieces wheel-timber.
10J do fnuff. 1,000 windsor chairs.
459 do. potatoes. l cart.
323 do. apples. 50 cwt. biir iron.
4 do. indigo. 90 do. cartings.
n do. pot ash. 1,040 hhds. hoop*-
2 do. onions. 12 firkins butter.
11 hhds. hams. 2 settees.
156 loose do.
IMPORTS.
516 puncheons of runi. 14 bales cottcn.
516 hhds. sugar. 6 bis. limes.
86 bis. do. 106 hhds. wine.
60,934 bags coffee. 5 trunks linen.
119 cafcs gin. s;7°° buftiels fait.
2CI hhds. molaflcs. -—r-~-
PubTifhedby JOHN FENNO, NoT^^^. 1 DE { *
Lane, near vhe Ofu-ego-Markctt Nsw-York.— •t r,a