[No. XXVII.]
THE TAB LET. No. XXVII.
« The loft which the commonwealth fufers by the
r'aJvient of its youth, is like the toss which the
SuJid/fpr by the Jeftruiiion of the firing."
THE world has been amused with so ma
ny treatises upon education, that any
exempt to throw further light upon the fubjedt
may be deemed useless, if not prefunung. It can
,;: d lv be expected that any person will wish tor
new information ; but that as loon as it.is per
ceived what topic is introduced, the reader will
turn from it, with impatience and disgust. I can
Inly allure him that this eflay is intended rather
iive scope to his reflections than to enforce
mv own. Kis attention is solicited to dilate the
hints that are fuggelted, and it is hoped he
will be able to afford instruCtion from contem
plating more at large, what is here so partially
iri'nated. If he finds my remarks idle and un
important, he ihould neglect or forget them ;
but if he finds them founded in reason and capa
ble of being improved into utility, I entreat he
would cherish them with care, and recommend
them with fervour.
Men destined to the rcclufe paths of abitract
science acquire an invincible attachment to what
has colt them so much time and perplexity. They
rc fl e( ft on the tedious hours they have consumed
in the acquisition, and suppose they pay an ill
compliment to themselves in not fixing the lngheft
value on their attainments. The human mind
is apt to be seduced into an ovcrated opinion of
its own improvements. So fafcinating are fcien
tific accompliihments, that men abltracft all ideas
of utility, and feel themselves attached to the
inerepofleifiou ofknowledge, independent of the
advantages that attend it. Under fucli imprefli
onsthey listen, without a desire of being con-
when any observations are made with a
view of changing the course of those academical
pursuits which they have followed with so much
aifiduity, and in which they have made eminent
proficiency. Such men will condemn me with
out an hearing; and will rather affect to ridicule
my lketches as pointing to an absurd innovation,
than deliberate upon them as deserving a serious
refutation.
The advocates for an undifci iniinating mode
of education hedge themselves under the follow
ingtrainof reasoning. They alledge that the
clallical studies are of such a nature, as will be
equally important to all men, who wish to make
a oiftinguillicd figure in society : No person can
be eminently qualified for aconfpicuous station,
who has not some acquaintance with science in
general: The connection between the different
branches oflitcrature is so naturally eftabliflied,
that perfection can be attained in none, without
a knowledge of all: It is only intended that the
academical acquirements Ihould lay the foundati
on, on which to build a superstructure conform
ably to the profeflion, one proposes to pursue :
Classical studies maybe considered in the light of
firft principles or elements whichare requisite to
give the lead in every celebrated fpliere of life,
and which are not specially adapted to one pro
feflion more than another : Indeed when a youth
enters a university, it cannot be known what
will be his future employment or destiny, and
therefore he Ihould be amply prepared to figure
in scenes the molt refpe<ftable and interesting:
His qualifications will be partial and incomplete,
and he can have no claim to an elevated rank in
society unless he gains some general notion of all
the sciences. To thcle weighty reasons it is ad
ded that the order and discipline of academies
require the ftridteft system and uniformity, and
that 110 regulations can be eftabliflied for giving
Special scope to different geniuses, but that all
mult be confined to an exa«ft similarity of clalli
cal erudition: By instituting any other method,
afeminary of learning would become a scene of
confufion and discord, rather than the fountain
from which Vll owl edge and virtue would regular
ly flow. ° b
This representation, I must confefs, gives a
Specious colouring to the facts, and a plausible
s ppearance to the arguments. Long habit has
lorivetted the prejudices of l'cicntific men to the
cultomary modes of education, that those loose
leafonings carry the force of infallible concluli
°ns. h will be found upon a little invcfligation
I at those principles at e true to a certain extent,
jut like many other truths have their fixed boun
daries. 1 Ihould suppose that in all fcliools for the
. nation of children previous to their commen-
c 'ng an education at public universities, some
nuitoniiity should be observed in the aflignation
""''•dies. l'he only general exception to tliis
that is proper to eitablifh is. that those lads
o are not intended as pupils for an university
- cj! i rcceivt a different management from those,
Li '
WEDNESDAY, July 15, 11*9-
who are to be qualified for that purpose. It is to
be prefuined that at that period of life, when a
youth can be admitted into an university, he will
afford some indications of a peculiar propensity
of genius. If no such bias is discovered it is a
proof; either,that he has so comprelienfive a mind,
that all sciences readily aflimilate with his facul
ties, or that he has so barren an undeiftandine;
that no particular science so far corresponds with
his perceptions as to produce a fertile cultivation.
In either of these cases, perhaps lei's injury will
result from an undiftinguilhing mode of tuition
than has been apprehended. The former of those
characters will become master of all clafiical stu
dies and yet have fuflicient leisure to acquire
other accomplishments, that participate more of
taste and elegance. He can never seize upon a
wrong objeift of literature becaufeliis inclination
and talents will sooner or later carry him into
an extensive range of general science. The lat
ter of these characters as they can never rife to
eminence in any species of mental improvement,
and as they manifeft no aptitude or preference
for one fort of science above another, may pro
perly enough pursue the rotine of claflical flu
dy, because there is 110 clue to direcfta deviation
from it. Youth of this defci iption gain no other
advantage from their literary pursuits than what
is derivedfrom the nominal reputation of having
been liberally educated. They may perhaps
make virtuous, ufeful members of society ; but
they become so only from the knowledge and
experience they obtain after tliey retire from the
walls of the academy, and relinquish every hope
as literary eminence. Their minds are not for
med for abftraifi science ; 'and can raise no defi
nite images from combining their perceptions.
Their mental operations terminate in nothing ;
and they have no clear ideas but what are con
veyed through the organs of the fenl'es. With
refpeccto such people, every obje>slion that would
lie against one method of tuition, might be
squally applied to all Thelofsof time and the
sxpence are the only inconvenience they sustain
from their studies, and this they must sustain let
them study whatthey will.
But there are other descriptions of students,
who can only derive benefit from a public edu
cation by a discrimination and attention in the
manner of instruction. To illustrate this point shall
be the fubje<fl of another number.
EXTRACTS FROM " AMERICAN ESSAYS."
FEMALE INDELICACY.
AN indelicate woman is a nuisance to society ; I would not
here be underllood to mean a common proftitutc; but one who
pretends to the chara&er of a modest, orchaftc woman ; but who,
ti om the vanity of being thought witty, and mistaking obicenity
for wit, is perpetually uttering bawdry in plain terms to raise a
l..ugh ; 01 in double entendre!, conveying impure ideas.
A notorious ftrumpct is despised and avoided by all who value
theii reputations; in luch a folitary,and completely wretched situa
tion, ihe ceases to be a dangerous example, but rather serves as a
beacon, to warn the sex, by exhibiting the p>£iure of vice in its ut
tnoit deformity : There are also many instances of female defec
tion, where no cafe, or (ituationin life is more truly pitiable
youth, simplicity, inexperience, and often a prepoffeflion in favor
of the object, open a thousand doors to the numberless insinuating
irts of feduftion : Remorseless man! the crime is all his own
Unhappy injured woman! her's the disgrace and punishment; for
if perrhance (he escapes public infamy, yet oft her still chaste mind
secretly deplores the indelible stain, bewailing ia tearful folitud:,
her violated honour.
But the woman of loofc conversation, though she may not be a
whore, perhaps because untempting, or untempted, yet is her mind
often more grossly depraved and debauched; with her lewd con
ceits, flic pollutes the delicate car ; violates the chaste mind, and
poisons the morals of all her acquaintance : She difgufls the wife
with her incontinence ; and the libertine with her unmeaning, or
ill-timed provocations : She is a whore in principle, though not
in pra£lice, and pofllffes their word, most lliamelcfs, and most
difguftful properties : It may with propriety be said (he keeps a
bawdy-house, and gives lessons of concupiscence ; though she has
not been (educed, Ihe is a common seducer; debauching bothlexes,
and if a mother, her own children.
On FRIENDSHIP.
MANKIND in advcrfity are too apt to complain that their
friends have forfaken them : there wants but little reflection to be
convinced that this is an erroneous idea ; adyerfity only enables a
manto distinguish his real from pretended friends; nor do I know
of any other certain tell, or criterion : Those only deserve the
name of friends, who regarding with equal indifference the linilcs
and ffowns of fortune, are neither attratted by the one, or repul
sed by the other : Those whom the man in profpoi uy supposed to
be his friends, and of whom, in adverlity, he complains, never
deserved the name; nor can they be justly acculed of any change ;
they are only poor pitiful reptiles that are always teen 1 warming
and balking in the lunfhine of prosperity; but when the clouds
of adverlity fliade their wonted retreat, they grow cold and tor
pid, creep from the once pleasing, but now gloomy scene, and hav
ing gained a certain, wifhed-for diftancr, sneak off to brighter,
and more cheerful Hues : To these, an unfortunate man serves on
ly as a signal ofdanger ; and to avoid the rock on which he split,
they deem it most prudent to (liun the unhappy vittim 4t tempora
[1 fuerint nutild,folus ens." But as misfortunes are often unavoi
dable, and when otherwise, frequently flow from a too generous
confidence, or forbearance, or fomc other cxcefs that favours more
of virtue than of \ ice, it is greatly to be regretted, that they Ihou.d
be indiscriminately treated as crimes, and avarice, usury, and ex
tortion be often dignified with the honourablecpithcts o- prudcnce.
industry, and honesty.
f Published on Wednesday and Saturday .j
Having already observed that a man who has riot experienced a
revrrfr of fortune, willnever be able to discriminate his real from
pretended friends ; so there ii probably no man who would choole
to make the expciiment upon such hard terms, but would wifely
prefer taking mankind as he finds them, with, or without a malk ;
for as society is preferable to solitude, so of courfc pretended
friends have their use ; they can sing as good a song, tell as good a
llory, drink a glass as ctfeerfully, give as good a toafl or feritiment,
be as entertaining, and make at Icafi as warm profeflions as the belt
friend in the world : They are always ready to oblige—those wiio
want no favours; to lend—to those who do not waiit to borrow ;
to give—where they expect a spur-sold returnand to render any
fcrvices, in Soy way—to those who they are fOfe will amply repay
them; thus they supply the place of real friends to those who Hand
in need of none ; and may be said to be equally ufeful where no
diJinUreJled services are required; and thus the rich feel their con
venience, arid seem to taste the sweets of friend Ship perhaps with
out one real friend—" donee eris Jelix mu/tos numcrabis amicos."
However paradoxical therefore it may appear, it is nevertheless
true, that thedilcovery of a real friend is a misfortune that every
wife man would wish to avoid ; and the enjoyment of triany pre
tended friends, a happiness which every man would wish to polTcfs.
£. C.
SKETCH OF THE POLITICAL STATE OF AMERICA.
THE great pillars supporting national pros
perity and happiness are AGRICULTURE, MA
NUFACTURES, and COMMERCE It is from
their due combination and arrangement we de
rive the greatest circulation, and that aggregate
income, which being the subjeCt of taxation, af
ford a a revenue to the public—v>hereby a naval
and military power is eftablilhed, tending to in
ternal security, while k renders us formidable to
outward enemies. We have too frequently heard
invidionsand altogether ideal distinCtions between
the agricultural, manufacturing, and commercial
interests of a community, which on a proper and
candid view of the subjeCt will be found to spring
from each other, to be intimately and efficiently
connected, and not easily feperaied in their prin
ciples or effeCts, and to flourifh bell while going
hand in hand. The Earth envelopes the molt
important articles in use among mankind : From
its bowels and furface do 1 we obtain chief of the
raw materials for manufactures and commerce—
which are extracted by the hand of the labourer,
rendered lit for use by the artizan, and bartered
or exchanged by the merchant, to the belt possible
profit ; and w6 may with propriety consider the
progressive numbers of the people, the extent of
their industry, and fucceflive amount of their
traffic, and their wealth, as objects of the firftcon
fequence to the political greatness of a people :
The observation that the number of its inhabi
tants is the belt estimate of the riches of a coun
try, is peculiarly applicable to America; and the
natural encouragement which is here presented,
must induce frequent emigrations from other parts
of the world—while the l'alubrious climate we en*-
joy will tend to produce a vigorous tncreafe ol
internal population —which piofpect is alio 1 en
hanced by the equivalent each one will here find
for his labour, the means of subsistence propor
tionate to numbers—a happy government, and a
free people, wliofe native genius and enterprise
claim the patriotic attention of those in power,
to dilburtlien the landed interelt as much as possi
ble from public exactions; to eflablifhfocietiesfor
the encouragement of industry and ufeful Ikill;
granting premiums for discoveries in agriculture
and the mechanic arts, and to lower the interest
of money; open roads, canals, and polls, as objeCta
of public utility : From such encouragement we
have every reason to expect the moll beneficial
consequences to our trade and manufactures : our
present proficiency in many branches of the lat
ter, juftify such a hope : Already our breweries,
and diltilleries, our iron, paper, leather, duck,
cotton, wollen, linen, oil, fnujfF, and other manu
factures bear a very pleasing appearance, and
patronized by the follering hand ot government,
mult ere long produce the greatest national ad
vantage.
It is to a nice attention, and an able manage
ment of these subjeCts by government, that Great-
Britain owes her present national prosperity and
glory: One of her writers fays, that from such a
line of conduCt it has followed, " That although
" an empire has been rent aflunder;—a whole
<' continent,fo peopled as to class at present among
" the Potentates of the world, has been detach
" e d from her ; and that event which was pur
" chafed by the French, Spaniards, and Duteh,
" at theexpence of 140,000,0001. Sterl. as the fu
" reft means of pulling down that country, has
" been so far from having such an effect, that they
" are proved, on the most authentic records, to
" be more flouriffiing, and consequently more
" formidable, than at any former period fnicc
<£ the foundation of the monarchy."
But why need we seek for proofs to support
felf evident propofitions,or strive to inculcate by
example what is dictated by common sense, and
arises from the nature of things ?
AMERICANUS,EXTRACTS.
I.
A WRITER in the Maffachuletts Centinel of July 8, con
cludes a speculation upon TITLES in the following words :—
" The TITLE of our FIRST MAGISTRATE should be ex
" preflive of his llation and dignity,as rcprefenting the MAJESTY
t; OF THE PEOPLE, bearing their sword of justice to execute
" their laws : To treat in their names with the sovereign power
46 of other nations ; and in their name to compel other nations to
" fulfill their engagements, and to obfcrve the law of nations.—
" What words are so expreflive and suitable to this great Repre
" fentative of the PEOPLE'S MAJESTY, as, " HIS MAJESTY
V THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES ?"
11.
DR. LETTSOM, of London, in an address to two fuccefsful
candidates for prize medals—thus analtzes a part.of a Dissertation,
with the motto, 14 Hac animal ille evocat Oreo u Our author,"
fays he, " has paid lingular attention to the powers ot electri
cal si re ; this active fluid, which pervades earth and air, is in
the former the tremendous agent of earthquakes ; and in the latter,
of thunder and lightnings equally terrible to man ; until Franklin,
from the new hemisphere, boldly scaled the Heavens, and
taught us to wield the artillery of the Ikies, and dire£l its fire to
aid and restore debilitated man, by its penetrating and nervous
energy.
111.
" THE conquests of an Alexander—the flaughtejed mil
lions of a C.tsAß—the daring ralhnefs of a Char les—and the
v.iftorious career and barbarities of a Frederick of Prussia. These
are the tales of wonder, which glow in luch splendid colours be
neath the pencil of an admired recorder. But who are the authors ?
They are the wretches that have filled the world with carnage ;
have trampled on the liberties of mankind ; broke through the ties
of nature ; and facrificed at the fhrincs of Avarice and Ambition,
the happiness of nations. If characters such as these will adorn
the pages of h-.ftory, what pencil can do justice to the merits of
our beloved PRESIDENT. In defence of the rights of human
nature, he unsheathed the sword : During the utmost tumult of
war, the rights of the citizen never were infringed : In him dis
tress always found a friend ; and the tale of injury sustained, ne
ver was heard without being followed by redress : And to crown
the whole, he has discarded every idea of pecuniary emolument.
Blush ! Bluih ! Ye defpotsof the old world : For ye have yet
to learn what patriotism is, and what it is to acquire the name of
FATHER OF THE PEOPLE."
IV.
YE Fathers, ye generous prote£lortof American liberty, you
may form Constitutions and laws, that Ihall closely approximate
even perfe&ion itfelf; but unless you enable your people to fee
thebeauty, the worth of them,all will be in vain ! You may as well
41 cast pearl to swine." Would you preserve to yourselves and
your posterity the bleflings and happiness of your dear bought re
publican government, or indeed your government itfelf, you mud
encourage a general education among all ranks in society ! You
inuft prescribe, adopt and bring into operation, a system of edu
cation, by which the minds ot your people, in general, from ge
neration to generation, may be so far enlightened as to discover
and realize the true principles and excellence of civil liberty !
And I fee not why this may not be done. The Americans, as a
nation, are already thebeft inftru&ed people under the fun. There
are, perhaps, individuals in other countries, who have made
greater advances in arts and sciences; but I presume there is not
a nation on earth, where the people at large are so well informed.
Why may they not be raised one degree higher in point of educa
tion ? Were the people absolutely obliged to maintain regular
schools, and in such number that all the children might be taught,
would not the necessary knowledge foonbe diffufed throughout the
continent ? O ! why may we not flatter ourfelvesthat it was refeiv
ed for America to convince the world that a republican govern
ment may exist in its utmost purity to the final close of human
nature ?
ALBANY.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF THE LEGI
SLATURE OF NEW-YORK.
MONDAY, JULY 6, 1789.
THIRTY-NINE Members appeared in the Assembly Cham
ber, which number being a quorum, they proceeded to the choice
of a Speaker, when
GL T LIAN VERPLANK, esq. was unanimously ele&ed.
A meflage was received from the Sena*,,informing that they had
made a quorum.
were then sent to the Governor and to the Senate, to
inform them that the house was reajfy to proceed to business.
Shortly after, the Senate havingcomeinto the assembly chamber,
for the purpose,' »*
His Excellency the GOVERNOR delivered the following SPEECH to
to both Houses.
Gentlemen of the Senate and Assembly,
I CONCEIVED it to be my duty to convene you at this early period,
that the Legijlatuie might again have an opportunity of chuftng Senators,
toreprefent this State in the Congress of the United States ; and I flatter
myfelfthat an occasion so importantand interefling will command an ap
probation of the measure. I amfenfible, however, thatfhoiJd your fefpon
be protracted at this season, it would be injurious as well as inconvenient
to many of the members. Imprejfed with this idea, and as nothing extra
crdinary hath taken place in the recess, IJhall not attempt to call xour at
tention to any other object: Our circumflances require unremited induflry
and theflriclcfl economy ; and I have confidence, that this consideration
alone will be a fifficient motive with you, to give as much dispatch to the
public business as may be confijlent withfifety.
Gentlemen,
Whiljt the diflrefses experienced by the failure of the lafl year's,crops,
particularly in the exterior settlements, and by the poorer dafs of people,
are contefntlrted with anxiety, the unmerited favours daily conferred up
on us by Almighty God, and especially the kind interposition of his divine
providence, in so ordering the seasons, as to afford a prifpett of rehej,
Jromthe approaching harvefl, cannot fail to inspire us with feniimbxts of
unfeigned gratitude and thankfuhiefs.
GEORGE CLINTON.
Albany, July 6, 1789.
This Spepch was referred to a committee of the whole house.
Col. James Livingston, in the chair.
The commitree having resolved that a refpe&ful address should
be made in answer to the Speech, rose and, reported accordingly.
The House accepted of the report, and appointed Mr. King.
Mr. Si l l, and Mr. Jones, a committee to prepare the draught ol
an address. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, JU L Y 7.
The committee appointed to prepare an answer to the Gover
nor's Speech, reported one, which being read, was referred to a
committee of the whole, and finally adopted by the House witl
out amendment.
A message was sens to the Governor, to enquire when it woul£
be agreeable to him to receive the address—who appointed 11
o'clock, to-morrow morning.
The House then proceeded to appoint a committeee of ways
and means ; A committee of grievances : A committee of privi
leges ?nd elections : A committee of courts of justice; and a com
mittee to examine and report what laws have expired, &c.
On motion, it was ordered, that a committee wait on the clergv
of the city of Albany, and reoueft of them to make such arrange
merits amnng thcmfelvts, as that one of them may attend to opco
the bulinefs of the house, each morning, with prayer.
On motion, it was Refilled, That theLicut. Governor be requeu
ed to wait on the house, at 12 o'clock, to adminlller to the mem
hers the oath required bv the ast ot the Congress of the United
States, entitled, " an jft prescribing the manner ol adminiltering
certain oaths." c ,
At 12 o'clock the Lieut. Governor attended, in pursuance ot the
foregoing resolution, and adminiitered the said oath to the leveral
members of the assembly.
The following resolution was agieed to.
" Resolved, (it the honorable the Senate concur herein] that a
joint committee be appointed to prepare an address ot the Legifla
tuteof this State, to The President of the United States ot A
merica* congratulating him upon his appointment to his present
dignified Ration, assuring him of the regard they have for his per
son, of the confidence they place in his wisdom, and of the firm
expectation which they entetiain that his administration of the na
tional government will be glorious to himfelf, and iiappy for his
country. Adjourned.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 8.
The bill for appointing commissioners, with authority to declare
the Independence of Vermont, was read a second time,and com
mitted.
At 11 o'clock, the House waited on His Excellency, when the
Speaker delivered the following ADDRESS.
To His Excellency GEORGE CLINTON, Efi. Governor of the Stat
of New-York, General and Commander in Chief of all the militia, and
Admiral of the Navy of thefume.
The refpeCtiul ADDRESS of the Assembly in answer to His
Excellency's Speech.
WE, the Representatives of the People of the State of New-York, in
fffembly convened, impressed with the high importance of a complete or
gdmzation of the government of the United States of America, do in the
ful/efl manner approve oj your Excellency's having convened the Le^ifix
ture at this period for tne purpose of appointing senators to reprefentthis
State in the Senate of the United States.
We are with your Excellency fenfble of the inconvenience of a fjjion
of the Legrflature at this particular season, and are therefore anxious to
pin fine our deliberations to those objects which shall appear absolutely ne
cejjury to the public happiness. x
At thefame time that zee lament the diflreffes to which many of our fel
low citizens in the exterior settlements of the State have been txpofed from
a scarcity offome of the necejfaries oj life, we unite with your Excellency
in rendering our fervent thanks to Almighty God, for thefreauent inter
positions of his providence in our favour, and more cfpeciallxfor the prof
pe3s which we enjoy of relief and plentyfrom the approaching harvif.
By order of the Assembly,
GULIAN VERPLANCK, Speaker.
Assembly-Chamber, July 7,1789.
To which His Excellency was pleased to make the following Reply.
Gentlemen,
PERMIT me to tender you my cordial thanks for this polite address.
The approbation which you have been pleased to express of my conduct,
in convening the Legijlature on the present occasion, affords me much plea-
Jn r e; and lam persuaded that your punctual attrndarne on the public bu
fides, particularly at this season, cannot Jail of being highly acceptable to
yourconjlituents. GEORGE CLINTON.
Albany, July 8, 1789.
A bill was moved for, and brought in, dire&ing the manner of
appointing Senators of the United States, tobechofen in this State,
which was read a firft time, and ordered a second reading.
A raeffage was received from the Senate, iqforming, that they
had agreed to the resolution for prcfentine; an Address to the Pre
sident of the United States. Adjourned.
SKE TCH of PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESEN 1 A JIVES of the
UNI TED STA'I ES.
SATURDAY, JULY 11, I 789.
THIS day the House, according to order, re
ceived the report of the committee of the whole
on the bill for colle&ing the Imj-oft; whichbe
ing read, and the several amendments to the lame
agreed to,it was ordered to be engrofled for a third
reading on Monday. >
Monday, July 13.
The reading of the engrofled bill for regula
ting the collection of the iinpoft was postponed
till tomorrow.
Upon motion it was voted, that the report of
the committee upon the memorial of Andrew
Ellico tt, Surveyor, should be taken into confi.
deration The report was accordingly read—it
jtated, that the survey ordered by Congress of the
lands ceded to the United States in 1 786 ouo-ht
to be compleated forthwith, and that the survey
or be reimbursed the expences he had already in
curred in the prosecution of the business.
Mr Sedgwick observed, that this business in
volved certain p ,rchafe S , in which some citizens
of Maflacbufelts were interested— that he was not
pofiCTled of such a state of farts as he could wifli
he therefore proposed that any decision upon the
lubjedl fliould be delayed.
Mr. Scott, said, I do not think, Sir, that the
reason offered by the gentleman is fufficient to
induce a postponement It is not intended that
the House fliould at present determine upon any
deputed claims—the completion of the fiirvev
will not affecl those claims in the least.
Mr. Sedgwick, said that he onlv wished that
the report fliould lie on the table till to-morrow
Upon the vote's being taken on the poftpone
merit, it pafled in tlie affirmative.
r , Th f then 011 motion of Mr. Scott, re
solved itfelfinto a committee of the whole upon
the ft!,! f !i e U T n ~ t0 ta . ke into confutation
the itate of the weftcm territory.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
The report of the committee appointed on a
former discussion of this subject, was then read,
and is as follows—
Resolved, that it is the opinion of this commit
tee that an a& of Congress fliould pass for efla
bliflung a Land-Office, to regulate the terms of
una PP ro p.iated land, i„ , he
Mr. Scott—Sir, I apprehend the fubjeift before
as is very interesting lo the United States.—This
appears from a variety of considerations.— It ap
pears from a view of the extent of the territory
I think I/hall be within the mark, to fay, thar it is
one thouland miles, by five hundred This will
in a few years be peopled by fix millions of loul s
and chieHy farmers—double tlie number of the
present inhabitants of the Atlantic States 'l] lc
climate, the foil, the waters, arc fuclias will com
mand inhabitants —the temperature of the cli
mate is happily calculated to suit the people of all
parts of the Union—they will find it healthy ami
agreeable.
l'he extensive trade with the Indians f or
peltry, furs, &c. renders it valuable To my
knowledge, great exports are brought from that
country. • Its importance further appears from
the great advantages already derived to the Uni
ted States, from the sales which have been made
of those lands; although but a trifling partitas
been disposed of.—The sales already amount to
near five millions of dollars; almost one fifth of
tliedomeftic debt of the Union is hereby extin
guiihed : Have the whole exertions of the Uni
ted States done so much ? No, Sir.—This renders
that property an objecft of iinmenfe future can
fequence.
We have also made great donations of those
lands to the officers and soldiers of the late army—
but the part fold bears no proportion to what re
mains.—The national honor is deeply engaged
to these officers and soldiers, in point of govern
ment and protection—lt cannot be supposed that
they are to be considered as the outcalis of soci
ety : We are bound to afford them our protection;
and all the rights and immunities of citizens en
joying the blelfings of good government.—But
these are not the only obligations that Congrels
is under.—We have formed treaties with thena
ti ves to secure them in the pofieflon of those lands,
which they have not fold or ceded to the United
States : A due observance of'treaties with the Indi
ans must be sacredly adhered to: It will not be for
the interest of the States to have that countryfettled
by an unprincipled banditti : It is of the lafl im
portance to enforce those treaties, which can qn
ly be done by establishing good government
Justice, honor and good faith, call loudly upon
us notto disappoint the just expectations of those
who have confided in us.—The truth and propri
ety of these observations will not be disallowed:
But the point of policy as connected with the
question relpetfling the encouraging emigra
tions to that country, will not perhaps befo
readily granted.—lt has been said, that except the
fettling of that country js effcouraged, we (hall
depopulate the Atlantic States.
Sir, I am not in favor of depopulating the old
settlements—and would not urge this business,
did I suppose it would produce this effect.—The
emigrations to that country will proceed, inde
pendent of all regulations. I mentioned upon a
former occasion the encouragement held out by
the neighbouring government —Since then, I
have received such further accounts as fully con
firm what was then advanced.—He then read a
proclamation from a Spanish Governor, dated at
the Illinois, in which every inducement of lands,
law, exemption from taxes, protection, civil and
religious liberty, were held out, to induce settlers
to pass into, and fettle in the Spanish territories-
And observed, that this will have all the effect
that encouragement from'this quater would have.
It may be laid, that Americans will not pat
tlieinfelves under the Spanifn government; but
to this it may be replied, that when people are
determined upon emigrating, provided they can
befecured, and quieted in their pofleffions, the)
care little about the form of the*goveriunentun
der which they are to live.
The old established settlers in the Atlantic States
will never emigrate ; it is a different defcripntw
of people that fettle new lands—Your rough boii
terous people, of which thousands are already
in that country. Such persons cannot be confii ie ">
they never can be prevented from emigrating.—
There are particular clafles of persons who com
pose the great body of emigrants. —Can Congr' !
make a law that shall point at individuals ? Wi
Congress pass a law to prevent the unfortunate
from feekingan asylum ? This would not be act
ing like nursing fathers. It remains for Congrf
to make the most of their settlements —the peo
ple are already there by thousands. Emp
has been continually pointing its course weftwar ■
Emigrations have been uniformly extending 1
that direction from the Garden of Eden to t
present day. .
We are told that these people will be loft tO V
United States.—Arguments are brought roin
limited boundaries of European g over . limell
prove that extending the dominions of r^e , 11
ted States will tend to weaken and deftrov tn^!
These observations are further extended to
Roman empire, which it is said, fell hv its
weight—by its extensive colonization, & c \~~
in my opinion, a very different reason may e
signed for this event—it was dividing the
and changing the feat of government, to ? p.
we must ascribe its downfall. These circum
do not apply to the United States. The tep, .
tion of the United States from Great B llt: j| erß
brought as an argument to prove that the wc
territory owing to the distance, if from no 0.., ;n finally be loft to the Union : But to
• te may be replied, that the iinmenfe ocean
thlS lis between Europe and these States, is
fh a natural and powerful barrier, that the fe
rion and independence of this country was
P eut to be expected in the course of things,
fLnas we were preparedfor it.—But how was
£'» feuaration accelerated and brought about ? By
!he ill policy and oppreflion of the mother coun
_The western territory is quite differently
fimated ; it is true, fnnilar causes may produce
r hr effects ; but with judicious and lair nfti
Cement that country will always continue firm
lv attached to the Atlantic States. The trade of
It country mult be through the United States,
ev are the nearest market, and custom, habit
d convenience will conspire to perpetuate a
lie and intimate connection between them.
But admit for a moment that the reparation is
. 'table ; still let us be attentive to our own
! tere fl let us get as much from them as we can
" let us draw from that source by rational methods,
~ v present advantage at least : But if we with
to mike them independent, let us leave the lands
to their disposal, they know the value of them,
and will very soon raise fufficient to fuppovt a go
vernment. .
Immense tradts of this temtory are under sale
by contracts with the late Cougrefs—thefe are
laying in an incomplete state, owing to the fur
y/vs not being finifhed ; and prove a loft ofup
waids ot 600 dollars per day to the United States.
This beincthe cafe, it remains to determine what
Jiall be done ? I think the eftablilhment of a
Land-Office in that country, upon some such
principles as are contained in the report, is the
obvious duty of Congress.
This will open a door to a regular, fate and ex
peditious sale of the lands—and it will become
theintereft of every person in the United States
to become purchafers—for the purchase will ex
tinguilh both principle and interest of the public
debt. [Mr. Scott, then pointed out the advanta
tages that would result from felling the land in
thefirtt inltance, to those that would fettle it, in
preference to felling it in large tracts to specu
lators He alio enforced the elegibilitv of felling
it in finall quantities, which might be done so as
to have them surveyed, located and fettled with
out expence to the States.]
This plan (Mr. Scott further observed) does not
prevent sales of large tracts —it only admits tales
offmall quantities.
The plan that has been pursued has been enor
moutly expensive ; lo much so, that Congress had
betterg/pe the lands to settlers.
It has been said, that deeds of that country
ought to be executed under the immediate eye of
Congress.—But 1 think the directors of the Land-
Office may be as well checked as olHcers in any
department whatever. I therefore hope that the
report of the committee will be adopted, and a re
folvepafs, that afelec f t committee oi the lioufe be
appointed to prepare and report a bill upon the
general principles of this committee.
The queltion upon the report of the commit
tee was then taken and paflecl in the affirmative.
A resolve, which provides that the Land-
Office Ihould be placed under the direction of the
Governor of the western territory, was then read.
Mr. Sherman observed, that the western lands
are undoubtedly a valuable fund to the United
States—and the gradual settlement of them, by
particular dalles of citizens, may not prove inju
rious. But lamby no means in favor of open
ing a wide door to {peculators—by which immense
tracts may be monopolized, and the public l'ecuri
ties depreciated to the great injury of the cre
ditors of government. I think it will be a pro
per Hep to establish a Land-Office, to facilitate
and compleat the sales already made —but a wide
field for disputes andevery evil will be the confe
rence of iifuing warrants—l lhall therefore be
against such a measure.
Mr. Lee observed, that he thought it was best
that the committee should rife ; that a ipecial
committee fliould be appointed to examine all pa
pers, contracts, &c. refpeifting the western ter
ritory, both of Congress and the several States :
He objedled to the plan of eftabliffiing the land
office at a distance from the feat of government,
and placing it under the direction of the Gover
nor of the weltern territory.—lt might in the is
sue be found that we had erected an imftrium in
imp trio.
Several other gentlemen made observations up
on the subjeCt, when Mr. Sedgwick propoled,
that " Governor of the western territory fliould be
ftruckout, and " Secretary of the Treasury" in
serted.
Mr. Vining then moved, that the proportion
fliould lie on the table till tomorrow —and that
the committee fliould rife: This motion obtained,
the Speaker relumed the chair.
Mr. Vining moved that the report of the com
mittee, appointed to take into conlideration the
fation proper to be allowed to the Preli
,ent, Vice-President, Senators and Reprefenta
j' ves °1 the United States, for their services,
wud be taken lip : this motion was agreed to •'
m report Hated, that 20000 dollars per annum
e allowed to the Prelident, exclusive of the ex
penees of an house, furniture, Secretaries, Clerks,
carriages, horses, &c.
Mr. Laurance observed, that lie Ihould not
take upon him to determine whether the sum
mentioned in the report was fufficient or not: The
constitution states, that the President shall re
ceive an adequate allowance which he has aright
to dilpofe of as he pleases : He pointed out the
impropriety of fpecifying particular objects for
which allowances were to be made, andfaid that
the conipenfation should be made in a gross sum :
He therefore moved, that those parts of the re
port which refpeifted particulars with the twen
ty thousand dollars, (hould be ltruck out,and the
sum left bla'nk.
A variety of observations followed this m >ti
on ; which was at length carried in the affirma
tive, and the article in the report now Hands
thus: Resolved, that the President of the United
States be allowed thousand dollars per an
num, as a co'mpenfation for his services to be paid
in quarterly payments. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, JULY 14.
Mr. Ames, of the committee on ele&ions, made a partial report
on the contested clc&ion of the State ot New-Jersey, .which was
laid on the table.
The engrofled bill to regulate the collection of the duties on
goods, waves, and merchandize imported into the United States,
was read—after which 1 the House proceeded to fill up the blanks.
Among others the following :
All imported distilled spirits of 24 degrees, by the Hydrome
ter, to be reckoned Jamaica proof
Thecoft of goods to be eilimatcd at the following rates :
Dollars. Cents.
The pound sterling of Great-Britain, - 4 44
The livre tournois of France, - - iß£
The florin, or guilder of the United Netherlands, 39
The mark banco of Hamburg, - - 33^
The rix dollar of Denmark, 1
The rix dollar of Sweden, - 1
The ruble of Ruflia, - 1
Real plate of Spain. - 10
The millree of Portugal, - - 1 24
The pound flerling of Ireland, - - 4 10
The tale of China, - 1 48
The pagoda of India, - - 1 94
The rupee of Bengal, - - 55?
And ail other currencies in value as near as may be to the laid
rates.
All duties to be paid in gold and silver.
Cents.
The gold coin ofFrance, Spain, England and Portugal, ? gQp W f
and all other gold coin of equal finenefs, to be valued at )
The Mcxican dollar, - 100
The crown of France, , - - 111
The crown of England* - - 111
And all otherfilver coin of equal finenefs, 111 cents p. oz.
The blanks being filled—the quellion, Shall the bill pais ? was
carried in the affirmative.
The title of the bill was thendetermincd, viz.
An ACT to regulate the colleUion of duties imposed on tonnage, and orl
goods, wares, and merchandize imported into the United States.
Mr. Fit zsi mons introduced a motion, That leave be given tc
bring in a bill to provide tor the government ol the Wc-ftern ter
ritory, agreeably to the aftsand ordinances of the late Congress,
Tins motion was adopted, and Me&rs htzfmons, Sedgwick, and
Brown, appointed as the committee.
Another motion was then made by Mr. Fitzsimons, That a
committee be appointed tobring in a bill providing for the lettle
ment of accounts between th : United States and individual States,
Agreeably tothcatts and ordinances of the late Congress : This was
also agreed to, and Mcirrs Baldwin, Sturgis, and Smith, (of S. C.,
appointed as the committee.
Adjourned till 11 o'clock, to-morrow.
FOREIGN AMD DOMESTIC MISCELLANEOUS ARTICLES.
ZARA, FEBRUARY 27.
The Chevalier Emo, is cruizing with our
fleet between the Archipelago and the Mediterra
nean, it is said he is furniihed with secret in
ftrutftions relative to the war between the two
Imperial powers and the Porte, and it is report
ed that an alliance fubfilts between the two firft
and the republic.
LONDON, APRIL 24.
M. DE SASSURE has been performing phi
losophical experiments in the exalted regions of
the Alps. He was accompanied by his Ton, and
they ascended one hundred and eighty toiies above
the top of the Buet, formerly thought the highell
acceilible summit of the Alps. Here they found
the storms violent, and the cold intense, the wind
piercing their hovels, the thunder loud and fre
quent, the air fully impregnated with electricity.
The appearance of the snow and ice by day, was
too refulgent for the eye to bear ; by moon light
the profpecft was beautiful beyond conception.
The experiments made on this expedition are not
only extremely curious and entertaining, but must
prove of great use to astronomy. The only ani
mal seen in these elevated regions, was a black
spider found under itones.
As men and Christians, our national character
was never, perhaps, more at flake, than in the
iflue of Mr. Wilberforce's intended motion on
Monday next, for the abolition of theflave-trade.
Those who are advocates for the continuance of
this unatural traflic, on the principles of policy,
we would aik, in the language of the Rev. Mr.
Rennie, a writer on that fubjedt, " Is commerce
more valuable than Christianity ? Arefugar, rum,
and Jamaica pepper, of more importance to the
happiness of mankind, than jufUce, mercy and
benevolence !"
Pamphlets, chiefly in the form of dialogue,are
difleminating among the French peafantry,treat
ing 011 the natural rights and liberties of man
kind. To this practice no opposition is made by
the government.
The French have, with their usual gallantry,
gone farther than ourselves in the plan of their
representation. They have given to ladies the
right of voting, and of lending Representatives
to the General Allembly.
BALTIMORE, JULY 7.
Captain Weatherby, in the brig Paca, from
this port bound to Port-au-Prince, about the Tit
of June, in the latitude of Bermuda, fell in with
a {hip which was lying to ; supposing her to be
in distress, he bore down in order to speak her ;
oil coming within hail, she informed him she
was from Virginia, bound to Cadiz. Capt. Wea
therby then perceived she mounted a number of
guns, and was manned in proportion. The
Capt. ordered him to bring to, as he intended to
fend his boat onboard, Capt. Weatherby im
mediately concluded ilie was a pirate, and made
all the fail possible : the ship immediately began
firing at him, and continued chafing of him for
fix hours; one fliot carried away the croofs jack
flings ; the brig failing very fail, escaped, and
got Safe into Port-au Prince. Capt. Weatherby
communicated this intelligence to the Gove, nor,
who, it was reported, intended dispatching a
frigate inpurfuit of her. She was under Spanish
colours, and yellow fides, white bottom, no head,
and in ballast.—This intelligence was communi
cated by Capt. Weatherby, to Mr. David Plan
ket, who has just arrived from Port-au-Prince.
Philadelphia, July 8.
The time is now approaching, when Ameri
cans will be enabled to demonfirate their grati
tude towards those persons, who have been in
strumental in procuring them that molt invalua
ble of human blessings— Liberty.
The appointment to offices of trust and profit
will soon commence ; and there can be no do'.ibt
but that those will have the preference, who have
molt diltinguiflied tliemfelves in the cause of free
dom.
Extrafl of a letter, dated London April 29.
« My warm and zealous attachment to the
United States induced me to publilh some extracts
from your letter, that indicate the glorious prof
pedts of your citizens, under the operation of the
federal government.
" Paragraphs are generally deemed obnoxious,
and it is with difficulty that liberty can be pro
cured to insert them in any of the public papers.
None of the Editors of the ministerial papers
would give them a place, as Adminiltration dread
the consequences of emigration, whenever Suffi
cient encouragement is held out to form the in
ducement.
" The political reputation of 110 country was
ever so much blalled as yours lias been since the
peace. It will require an undeviatirig adherence
to the maxims of an honest and just policy, to re-
Itore your credit, and place you in a refpecftable
point of view amonglt the nations of the earth.
" You would have had many men ofconfider
able fortune, (desirous of making provilion for
large families of children) who would have emi
grated to your country, but were reltrained, from
die general opinion that prevails, that although
there was great enjoyment of personal liberty,
(even to the extent of licentioufiiefs)there was 110
security for property. That public and private
contracts were glaringly violated by legiflatiue
bodies, who fliould have been the guardians of the
rights of the people.
" However, a favorable change of sentiment
already appears, and the principles of your feder
al Conllitution have in agreatmeafure effe«£tedit.
BOSTON, JULY 1.
The fifhery the Itaple of Mafi'achufetts, we are
told, is verging fall to the grade of Superiority
which it held before the revolution ; Marblehead
has reached this point, and other towns are not
far in the rear. The firft: fares this season have
been good, in quantity as well as quality.
NEW-YORK, JULY 15, 1789.
We hear from Albany, that 011 Saturday lalt,
the Hon. Legislature of this State, chose the
Hon. Philip Schuyler, and the Hon. James
Duane, Senators of Congress for this Diltriist of
the Union.
By an editft of the King of France, dated Paris
April 20, 1 789. The premiums or bounty granted
011 the importation of grain and flour into that
kingdom from the United States, is doubled, and.
continued to the firft of September 1 789.
Extract of a letter from Salem, July 11.
" It is with thankfulnefs we can inform you,
that we are now cutting down our liarvefl, and
that we have the greatest profpedl of the largest
crops that we have had for many years ; and the
molt part use no rum in cutting it down."
On Wednesday the lit inllant, the Rev. lfrael
Evens, was installed Paltor of the Church of Con
cord, New-Hampshire.
Saturday arrived here the brig Prudence,
Capt. Swan, from a Whaling voyage''.
fpjr* Threee months have now elapsed fines the commencement of
this publication : Our patrons wi/lpleafe to notice the terms of fubjerip
ticn : Those at a diflance who can cause payments to be made in thts city
will fir cat/v accommodate and oblige the editor.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
[Continued Jrom our lajl. J
The fourth reason is, " because afucceflion of
" supreme powers deltroys faction Which is
defined to be an adherence to an interest diltinvft
from the true interest of the state.
In this particular, one may venture to differ al
together from our author, and deny the
fact, that a i'ucceliion of sovereign authority in
one aliembly, by popular elections, deltroys fac
tion. We may atKrmtlie contrary, that a Hand
ing authority in an absolute monarch, or an he
j eciitary aristocracy, are less friendly to the mon
ster than a simple popular go\ eminent; and that
it is only in a mixed government of three inde
pendent orders, of the one, the few, and the ma
ny, and three separate powers, the legifiative,
executive, and judicial, that all forts of factions,
thole of poor and the rich, those of the gentle
men and common people, thole of the one, the
few, and the many, can, at all times, be quelled.
The reason given by our author is enough to
prove this : " 1 hose who are factions mull have
" timet .° ""prove their Heights and projects, in
" dif'guifing their designs, drawing in inltru
" ments, and worming out their oppofites." In
order to judge of this Tet us put two I'uppofitions :
1. Either the fuccellion mult be by periodical e
letftions, limply ; or, 2. by periodical elections
in rotation : and, in cither cafe, the means and
opportunities oi improving addrels and fyltems,
concealing or feigning deligns, making friends
and escaping enemies, are greater in a fuccellion
of popular elections than in a standing aristo
cracy or simple monarchy, and infinitely greater
than in a mixed government. When the mon
lter I action is watched and guarded by Cerberus
with his three heads, and a fop is thrown to him
to corrupt or appease him, one mouth alone will
devour it, and the other two will give the alarm.
—But to return to our firlt cafe, a fuccellion in
one alfembly, by simple annual elections. Elec
tions are the belt poilible fcliools of political art
and addrels. One may appeal to any man who
has equal experience in elections and in courts,
whether addrels and art, and even real political
knowledge, is not to be acquired more ealily, and
in a shorter time, in the former than in the latter.
A King of France once asked his molt able and
j 1011 eft ambaflador d'OflLt, where he had learned
that wonderful dexterity, with which he pene
trated into the bosoms of men of all nations and
characters, unravelled every plait in the human
foul, and every intricacy of affairs and events ?
The cardinal answered, " Sire, I learned it all,
111 my youth, at the election of a parish officer."
It is a common observation in England, that their
greatelt statesmen, and their favorite Chatham
among the reft, were formed by attendance on
elections. The human heart is no where so open
and so dole by turns. Every argument is there
exhaulted; every paifion, prejudice,imagination,
• uperltition and caprice, is easily and surely
learned among tliefe scenes. One would suspect
that Shakelpeare had been an electioneering a
gent. W ienthsfe elections are in a fmgle city,
like Rome, there will be always toofets of candi
dates : If one set lucceeds one year, the other
will endeavor to succeed the next. This will
make the whole year a scene of fa<ftion and in
trigue, and eyery citizen, except perhaps a very
few who will not meddle on either lide, a parti
san or factious man. If the elections are in a large
country like England, for example, or one of the
United States of America, where various cities,
towns,boroughs,and corporations, are to be repre
lented,each scene of election will have twoorinore
candidates, and two or 111 ore parties, each of which
will study its Heights and projects, difguifeits de
signs, draw in tools, and worm out enemies. We
mult remember thatevery party, and every indivi
dual, is now struggling for a share in the executive
and judicial power as well as legifiative, for a
share in the distribution of all honors, offices, re
gards, and profits. Every paflion and prejudice
of every voter will be applied to,- every flattery
and menace, every trick and bribe that can be
bellowed, and will be accepted, will be used ;
and, what is horrible to think of, that candi
date or that agent who has fewelt scruples ; who
will propagate lies and flanderswith molt confi
dence and lecrecy ; who will wheedle, flatter,
and cajole ; who will debauch the people by
treats, fealts and diversions, with the least liefi
tation, and bribe with the most impudent front,
which can consist with hypocritical concealment,
vill draw in tools and worm out enemies the faft
eft : Unsullied honor, sterling integrity', real
N li tae, will Hand a very unequal chance. When
vice, folly, impudence, and knavery have car
ried an election one year, ihey will acquire, in
the rourfe of it, frefli influence "and power to suc
ceed the next. In the courle of the year, the de
legate in an aflembly that disposes of all com
millions, contracts, and pensions has many oppor
t unites to reward his friends among his ov\n con
stituents, and to punifhliis enemies. The son or
other relation of one friend has a commillion
given liini in the army, another in the navy, a
uiiru a benefice in the church, a fourth in the
customs, a fifth in theexcife ; ihares in loans and
contracts are diltributed among his frinds, by
which they are enabled to encreafe their own
and his dependents and partilans, or, in other
words, to draw in more inftruinents and parties,
and worm out their oppofices. All this is lo eaf'y
to comprehend, so obvious to fight, and so cer
tainly known in iniiverlal experience, that it is
astonishing that our author should have ventured
to aflert, that such a government kills the canker
worm Faction.
(To be continued.)
A en-York, July 13.
On Saturday I a]l the fellow tug ADDRESS was pre
sented to the PRESIDENT of the United States, by
the Rev. William Smith, D. D. tht Hon. John
Henry, Efq± of the Senate, and the Hon. Joihua
Seney, EJq; oj the House of Representatives ; being
a committee oj the Vtfitors and Governors of \Valli
ington College, in the Jlate of Maryland, appoint
ed for that purpose. viz.
To TIIE PRESIDENT of the United States.
SIR,
WE, the Corporation of Visitors and Governors,
and the Principal and Faculty of Profc{fors of Wash -
ington College in the state of Maryland, ac
tuated by the fmcereft personal affe<ftion, as well
£ls the purelt public considerations, beg leave to
embrace the present occasion of our Anniversary
Meeting and Commencement, to felicitate ourfclves
and our coufitry, upon your unanimous appoint
ment to the Chief Magistracy in the general go
vernment of the United States.
Revolving upon the viciflitudes and eventful
liiltory of the late war, every page of which bears
ample and honorable testimony to the services
which you have rendered to your country, and
the exertion of tliofe Virtues and Talent's which
have exalted your name to the firft rank among
the Heroes and Benefattors of mankind, we cannot
but recall to mind the occasion of our former ad
dress to you, and your benevolent answer to the
fame.
The General Ajfembly of Maryland, upon the es
tablishment of this Seminary, having dignified the
fame with the auspicious name of" Washing
ton Collece, in honorable and perpetual
memory of the services of the illustrious and
virtuous Commander in Chief ol'the armies of the
United States ; " we exprefl'ed our confidence—
" thai, amidst all the public monuments which
your country fought to eredt to you even while
living, none would be more acceptable than a
Seminary of univtrfal Learning,exprefsly dedicated
to your name, with a view toinftrudland animate
the youth of many future generations, to admire
and to imitate thofePußLic Virtues and Patri
ot Labors which had created for you a Monu
ment in the heart of every good citizen ; that we
hoped you would permit your name to be placed
at the head of the Viptors attd Governors of thecol
lege, trusting that the time was then not very
remote, when, by the termination of IVar, the
JnJant institution might be enabled to salute you in
person, and, like a dutiful child, as one of its firft
works, present the Olive Wreath and other
emblems of Peace, to its Father, Guardian
and Friend."
Highly encouraging to us was your answer ;
" That, with pleasure, you would consent to
have your name enrolled among the Fi/itors and
Governors of the college, if it were not to the ex
clusion of some other whose proximity and other
circumstances might enable him to be a more ufe
ful member ; and that as the ACI of tlie General
Ajfembly, which has given your name to the col
lege, would remain a monument of their esteem,
it made an impression on your mind which could
only be exceeded by the flattering aflurance of
rhe lasting and extensive ufefulnefs of the semi
nary ; and when that period should arrive when
we could hail the blest return of Peace, it would
add to your pleasure to fee the Infant Seat of Learn
ing rising into consistency and proficiency in the
sciences, under the nurturing hands of its foun
ders."
The happy period is now arrived when, through
the blefling of God, upon the return of Peace, this
Scat of Learning hath attained to finch proficiency in
the Sciences, as to wait upon you with the promised
f WgEATHof literary Honour which we triift you
will not reject, although from an institution of
">ferior {landing, yet not of inferior gratitude
and afFetftion,to the chief of those which have al-
NOTE.
f rhe wreath ot literary honor referred to in tin
above address and in the answer to the fame, is the academical
degree of Doctor ot Laws ; and as we have been favored with
a copy of the preamble to the d i ploma, we are happy to lay it
before our readers, as the firft specimen we have seen of the pre
lent title and past services of our illustrious and beloved Pkes,
dent, attempted in truly claflicall.atin.
(.uln turn in finem Gradus Academici a Majoribus nof.
ris prudenter mft.tut., luerint, ut Viris qui dc Religiohe, R S pub.
icaet Litem optirne fint .neriti publici honores decernereutur ■
WnSrifVii 1,1 US P'®^ c ' arel '°®P""l"ni fit, GEORCIUM
WASHING lON IOKOi.RATAkiM America Civitaum
I non folum de Religione, Literis, Republica, et
totoetiam humano gencie bene l-mper et rnultum meruiffe; f,d
Hello, ;i (jiie ac Pace, rommunif omnium falutis appetentiflinmm
per graviffima Return Uifcrimina, fefc Civcm pneftantiflimum'
Libert atis ultorem feliciffimum, Patt i/bVE Pitrlv (Tj
amiftimuni, oflemli.Te; , os igitui ftc." "
ready dignified thcmfelv es lit prcfentin&Vo,, ,»•,,
the like honors. * '
Bearing an ardent and unfeigned part in th
admiration and applause of thole virtuous and
magnanimous sentiments, illicit in obedience to
the voice of your country, have led you forth
once more from the enjoyment ofdomeftic ] lap
pinefsto alaborious and confpicuousparticipation
of the cares of public life, a: a molt ilitereftin»
crilis of our affairs; we fervently —Tlwt the
glory and felicity of our country—the trnecon
i'umuiation of the Patriot's Labors— may be
your crown in this world, and ajfurt v OB ail
everlaiting crown in the world to come !
Signed by order.
WILLIAM SMITH, D. D.
Preft dent of the Corporation, and Prtnaptl
of the Faculty,
"June 24, 1 789.
THE PRESIDENT'S Answer.
To the Corporation of Viiitors ti>:d Governors and
the Principal and Faculty oj Profellors o/Wash
ing ton College, in the Jt ate of Maryland.
Gentlemen,
YOUR very affectionate /Udrtfs, and the hemr.
ary Tejtbnony of your regard which accompanied
it, call forth my grateful acknowledgments.
A recollection of part events, and the happy
termination of our glorious Itruggle for the el
tablilhment of the Rights of Man, cannot fail to
inspire every feeling heart with veneration and
gratitude towards the Great Ruler of events,
who has so manifeffly interposed in our behalf!
Among the numerous blcllings which are atten
dant upon Peace, and as one whose consequences
are of the moll important and extenlive kind,
may be reckoned the prosperity of College: and
Seminaries of Learning.
As in civilized lbcieties, the welfare of the
Hate and liappinefs of the people are advanced
or retarded, in proportion as the morals and edu
cation of the youth are attended to ; I cannot
forbear, 011 this occasion, to express the fatisfac
tion which I feel on feeing the encreafe of our
leminaries of learning through this extensive
country, and the general wilh which fcems to
prevail tor eltablifliing and maintaining these va
luable inlfitutions.
It affords me peculiar pleasure to know that the
; Seat of Learning under your direction hath at
tained to such proficiency in the Sciences fmce the
PtAct ; and I sincerely pray that the great Au
thor or the Universe may finile upon the
lnjlitution, and make it an extensive blefiing to
this country.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
New-York, July 11, 1789.
MISCELLANY.
FROM THE ESSEX JOURNAL.
M*. HOY T,
BY giving the following extra# of a Ic-ftcr (which lately fell
into my hands) from a gentleman who refidcd ftveral years with
our illustrious Presidekt of the United States, a place in your
ufeful paper, you will oblige one of the many thousand of his ad
mirers, who, although he has not a personal acquaintance, isne
veithelefs unde very partnuldr as well as general obligations to
him, and willies that all the good people of these States may be
sensible of his unbounded diftritereftednefs, formerly in rcl.n
quilhingthe pleafurts and enjoyments of affluence and domestic
quiet, at the risque of life, to rescue his country from slavery and
opprtflion ; and now, at the repeated call of his 4 fellow citizens, r
in devoting himfelfto their service in devising measures to pre
serve and secure that liberty, which, 4 by the divine munificence,'
he had by his wisdom and valour procured : And all this with
out any other compensation than the fatisfaftion of doing good!
In addition to all this, from unequivocal authority I am able to
airert, that his whole influence is exerted to patronize and be
friend the liberal arts and science.
extract.
General Washington pofTcfTes 10,000 acres of land in
one body, where he lives—constantly employs 250 hands—keeps
24 ploughs going all the year, when the weather will permit
lowed in I*B7, 600 bufKcls of oats, 700 acres of wheat, and pre
pared as much for corn, barley, potatoes, beans, peas, See. —ha*
near 500 acres in grass—and sowed 150 with turnips—Stock, 140
hor/es, 112 cows, 235 "working oxen, heiiers and ftears, and 500
iheep. Ihe lands about his feat are all laid down in grafs —the
farms arc feathered round at the distance of 2, 3, 4, or 5 miles,
which the General visits every day, unless the weather is abfo
lutelyftormy.-—He is constantly making various and extensive ex
periments for the improvement of agriculture: He is stimulated
with that desire which always actuates him, to do good to his
count?y and benefit mankind. In 1786 he killed 150 hojjs,
weighing 18,5601b. for his family nfe (exclufiveof provisions for
hisnegroes) which was made into bacon."
GREATNESS OF SOUL.
AN anecdote, in « A tour in Corjicawill illuflrate the posi
tion, that true greatness of foul may be found as well in the low
er as in the highest grades of life.— 4 ' The leader of a gang of ban
ditti, who had long been famous for his exploits, was at length
taken and committed to the care of a soldier, from whom he con
trived to escape. Ihe soldier was tried, and condemned to death.
At thephce of execution, a man, coming up to the commanding
officer, fays, 44 Sir, lama flranger to you, but you Ihall soon
know who I am. I have heard one of your soldiers is to die for
having fuffered a prisoner to escape : He was not at all to blame;
befidcs, the prisoner shall be restored to you. Behold him here.
'a™ man - 1 cannot bear that innocent man should be pu
nished for rae, and I come to die myfelf."—-" No, cried the
trench officer, who felt the fublimitv of the a£lion asheough f »
thou (halt not die, and the soldier shall be set at liberty. Endea
vouring to reap the fruits of thy generofny ; Thou defcrveft to be
henceforth an honefl mart."
Complete ftts from the legi/ining, of tin GAZETTE OF Tl£
UNITED STAI ES, may at any time l*e obtained b\ tkofe who chufi to
[dbfcribe for that publication, at the Editor's Office, Ht. 9, Maiden-Lane-
I'ublifhcd by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Mai^"
I. an E, IK dt lilt '• :;-t.Vor r\ -tif!. jr a J