[No. XXVI.]
THE TABLE T. No. XXVI.
« Few men are fit for every fart of education, and
~t every fort of education is made in one instance or
Cher nfui, every fort of men."
IN one of my former numbers it has been
suggested that some men, from natural in
capacity, are debarred from gaining any know
ledge, that is jult and ufeful. In another of my
papers it has liketvife been suggested, that many
people fail of valuable attainments, by facrificing
their time upon fludies that arc of no kind of im
portance. But there is still another class of peo
ple who do not mi'carry from cither of tliefe
cau'fes and yet whole moll diligent pursuits re
alize very little advantage. They fail of arriv
ing: at an'v great degree of excellence from an in
aptitude of talents to the objects about which they
are employed. It falls to the lot of few to have
extent of capacity to excel in more than one art
or profeffion ; and molt people, though, in the
firft instance, they Ihould be lucky enough to give
their genius its true direction, and follow a right
track closely through life, would nevertlielefs
fall Ihort of perfection in their particular employ
ment. How unfortunate then ninft it be, when
their abilities take a wrong turn and counteract
their natural tendency ! Still more unfortunate
mud it "be, when men pursue many different ob
jects, neither of which suit their capacity.
Parents too little consult the peculiar bent of
genius in designating employments for their chil
dren. Before it is known what is best adapted
to the talents of a child, the parent anticipates
that knowledge, and determines at all events what
ptofelfionhefhall follow. This predisposition in
favour of any calling so biafles people, that they
cannot judge with propriety, whether it is suitable
or not. In making an experiment which does
not prosper, they thwart the course of nature,
damp the ardour for improvement, throw the
mental faculties into confulion, produce fickle
nefs of temper, and perhaps never ascertain the
real propensity of genius, till it is too late to give
itaproper direction. There is a nioft striking
impropriety in gratifying such a predilection,
before a child has given some symptoms of the
peculiar cast of his talents. Though there may
never be indications of such a temperament of
mind, as will cucompafs, by the severest Itudy,
any general knowledge of the arts and sciences,
he may still have ingenuity for some mechanical
occupation, and may even I'o far excel in some
branch, as to become ufeful to society and pro
fitable to himfelf. But by mistaking his natural
biafs he blun '.ers through life, always acting a
gainst theftream, and never gaining any honour
or profit by his pursuits. It cannot be supposed
that so great a propoition of mankind, from 3ny
natural defect of uiulei Handing, are inevitably
doomed to such a series of lrardlhips, disgraces,
and difappointinents, as ieem so often to embitter
human life. It favestlie trouble of inveftijiation,
1•, O t
and is an easy solution of the matter, to charge
the blame to nature, and to reft contented in the
belief, that no institutions can be adopted for lef
iening the calamities and vices, of which so many
ill-fated men participate. I have confefled, that
some people can never be wrought into any cha
racter that isufefnl or refpe&able ; but the num
ber, who come within this defcriptioji, is fmallet
perhaps than is usually imagined,
In raoft of the Universities or academies in this
country there are certain claflical fttidies, whicl;
are imposed as a talk on each student, wliethei
they are acccmmodated or not to his particulai
genius and inclination. The effect of this undii
tinguifhing manner of in ftruction is, that atonfi
derable proportion of the pupils derive little or
no advantage from their education. It is beyond
doubt, that noperfon can make proficiency in any
liudy, which does not coincide with his wishes ;
and it is no less evident, that one caujfe of the in
dolence and aversion observable in so many Un
dents, is, that they are set about that kind of li
terature, for which they have not an aptitude of
faculties. In thus countera&in g the natural bent
of their capacity they become difgulted and idle.
It defervesaf'erious enquiry, whether there can
really be any reformation in the mode of academ
ical education. Ij it is believed any remedy can
eapplied to remove the inconveniencies, that
rC, n'k 0m a '"ifapplhation of faculties, it
*11 be granted, that every attempt to introduce
a more perfeCt plan lhoiiid be applauded and pa
ronized. I make even these defiiltory remarks
• 'elmftance; and lhall refrain from a minute
legation ofthefubjfet. This important talk
Mould beentered upon by thole, whose profeffion
i." , "uation are adapted to difeuliions of this
\ n ' Any Iketches, however loose and immatur
-0 'ntercfti/.g a matter, ihould be received
Ak candour, tsnd examined Arith attention.
SATURDAY, July ir, 1789.
Those who have the management of schools and
Univerlities are in the habit of believing thattlie
present regulations are judicious if not perfect,
r ew, if any, of those characters are willing to al
low, that in the distribution of lludies, any re
ference should be had to the difference of genius
or inclination, in different students. Many rea
sons are offered why an uniform method should be
observed in apportioning the talk to each indivi
dual. In my next number these reasons fliall be
noticed and the fubjecft fur.her illultrated.
MR. FENNO,
AMERICANUS has again Favoured the public in the XXIVth
X T o. of your paper, with some of his obfcrvations relative to the
Western country. I have read his remarks with great attention,
but must candidly confefs, that many of them, if they have any re
lation to that fubjeft, are far beyond my comprehension. He
makes mention of people " quitting habitations now unftftled
which is the fame thing as to fay, emigrating from an un
settled country. I question much if this has ever been the
cale in any part of the world. This expreftion of our author put*
me in mind of rwo acts of aflembly—the one imposed a considera
ble penalty on any person, " who fhou,(d alter the mark of an unmark
ed hog I ' —the other ordered that a certain piece of ground, in the
city of Ph-l-d-lph-a, should " be enclosed by a brick teal/, and lefi
open forever."
There are but two arguments brought forward by Americanus
in the number alluded to, which in any uieafure apply to the fubjefl
ot the Wedern country. The lit. is,thatwA<r/i the territorial juris
diilior. of a country is greatly extended, the emanations of power from iti
f°urce bccomes in the extremities proportionably weak and inefficient.'
1 his observation will generally hold good in/nonarchical govern
ments ; but is not the cafe in confederated republics ; and the pre
sent general fydem has by guaranteeing a republican form of go
vernment to all the States, that may become members of the Union
left each individual State at liberty to enforce its own particulai
regulations, with all the energy neceflary to ensure liberty, and
render government refpeftable. By this truly valuable part of oui
general political system, it must be plain that all North America
might be brought into the fame general union; and yet each State
superintend its own particular concerns, with as much decision a!
if the confederacy had 110 cxiftence. This writer might as wel!
fay, that it is impoflible for thcState of Georgia to be as efficientl)
governed as the State of New-York. In bringing forward tim
point, he has run intoan error, by forgetting that the several State!
in the Union ictain a very considerable part oftheir efficient juris
diction. If the executive of the State of Georgia has equal pow
ers with the cxecutiveof the State of New-York, it will be the fault
of the Stale executive, and not owing to its diftancefrorn Congrefsj
if the government of Georgia is not equally as efficient as the go
vernment of New-York. The fame reasoning will apply with
equal force to any part of the Western territory, great part of which
is not more dillant from the present feat of Congress than the State
of Georgia. If Americanus will please to attend to these fa&s,
his metaphorical adde r , which has so much alarmed him, will be
changed into an innocent and ufeful animal.
The >d. argument, is contained in these words—" it is in tht
power ofgovern ment tooppofe the removal of the inhabitants of the Atlan
tic States, by making it their real interefl to continue at home., it being a
fancied intercjl which tends them abroad." This point is so far from
being eftabhflird, that it has no precise idea prefixed to it : It is
one of those cast sin which every man has a right to judge for him
felf, and in which government cannot beotherwife than filcnt. It
would certainly be idle in the extreme, to undertake convincing
a man who had been surrounded by a number of children, and un
fortunate in his circ.timftances, and who by removing into the Wes
tern country had provided amply for himfelf and family, that he
had not attended to his real inter eft." Cases fnnilar to this are
innumerable.
Amcricanus is generally unfortunate when he brings the Wes
tern country before the public : He tells us that he docs not expect
tl the concurrent opinions of land-jobbers, monopolizers of the
Irard-earned wages of the poor fold iers, and other harpies upon the
public." This insinuation proceeds from a want of information,
and is so far from being well founded, that some of the principal
oppofers of a land office for the Western country, and the mod
decided advocates for Amcricanus, are the very Speculators
he mentions. They are already fupplicd with land in abundance,
and that at the expense of the United States, and would now, it
poflible, prevent the attention of Congress being directed to that
country, until they had dilpofed of their speculations. I am well
acquainted with many of the principal advocates tor cftablifhing
a land office, for thedifpofal of theWeftern territory ; but I do|not
know one of them, who has not uniformly distinguished himfelf
as a friend to the liberty, and " real interests" of his fellow citi
zens, and however strange such disinterested conduct may appear
to Americanus, he may reft afTured, that they are not interested in
the lands in the Western territory. A. E.
ANECDOTES of the DUCHESS of GLOUCESTER.
ABOUT the year 1730, Mr. Edward Walpole (afterwards
Sir Edward, Knight of the Bath) returned from his travels on
the continent, where the munificence of his father, the famous
statesman, had enabled him to make a brilliant figure ; and so ve
ry engaging was he found by the ladies, that he had no other ap
pellation 111 Italy, than that of " the handsome Englidiman."
Amongst more transient connections with the lovely Signoras, he
formed onetender onew th a lady of the name of Laura; which
name he afterwards (profeffedly for her lake) gave to his eldcft
daughter, the present Mrs. Kcppel.
Mr. Walpole had lodgings taken for him, on his return, at a
Mrs. Rennic's, a child's coat-maker, at the bottom of Pall Mall.
On returning from visits, or public places, he often passed a quar
ter of an hour in chat with the voung women of the shop. Amongst
them was one who had it in her power to make him forget the
fair Laura, and all the beauties of the English court; her name
was Clement; her father was at that time, or soon after, postmast
er at Darlington, a place of fifty pounds per annum, on which
he subsisted a large family'. This young woman had been bound
apprentice to Mrs. Rennie, and was employed in the usual duties
of luch a situation, which die dilcharged (as the old lady used to
do 1 honestly and soberly. Her parents, however, from their ex
treme poverty, could supply her but very sparingly with clothes
or money. Mr. Walpole observed her wants, and had the ad
dress to ' make her little presents in a way not to alarm the vigi
lance of her mistress, who exacted the drifted morality from the
voung persons undei her care. Miss Clement was beautiful as an
impel, with good, though uncultivated, parts. Whatsoever fen
timci ts or principles of virtue die might be supposed to bring
with her from Darlington, it is no great wonder that they were a
I little fliaken, when attacked by a man whose father was ruling
' Europe, and whtffc personal endowments were so great, that they
[ -n /,"• 'a.fdaj a,.J t:-rj .■>.]
<;ave her lor i iva's every woman of birth and beauty in the king
dom Whether her virtue had been fubdned before her lover left
ins lodgings, is not known ; the lodgings were only a transitory
tiling till his honfe could be prepared for him, to which he now
removed, and about the fame period received the honor of knight
hood. °
Mrs. Rcnnie had begun to fufpeft that a connexion was form
ing, which would not be to the honor of her apprentice. She ap
priled Mr. Clement of her suspicions, who immediately came ui>
to town to carry her out of the vortex of temptation. The good
old man met his daughter with tears, he told her his suspicions;
and that hefhould carry her home, where, by living with sobri
ety and prudence, lire might chance to be married to fbme de
c. Nt tradesman. The girl, 111 appearance, acquiesced, but whe
ther her diftafteto the dismal feenes at home gave her the resolution
to facrifice every thing rather than return, or whether the had be
fore facrificed so much that she thought character only not worth
retaining, eannot be ascertained ; tins, however, is certain, that
wbilft her father and millrefs were aifcourfing in a little dark par*
lour behind the shop, the object of then cares flipped out, and
without hat or cloak ran directly through Pall Mall to Sir Ed
ward's house at the top of it, (now inhabited by Mrs. Keppel)
where, the porter knowing her, she was admitted, though his
mailer was absent. She went into the parlour, where the table
was covered for dinner, and impatiently waited his return. The
moment came at last : Sir Edward entered, and was heard to ex
claim withgreat joy, " You here." Whatexplanations took place
were of course in private ; but the fair fugitive fat down that day
at the head of his table, and never after left it.
The fruits of this connexion were Mrs. Keppel, the eldeu; the
Royal Dutchefs, the second; lady Dyfart, the third ; and Col.
Walpole, the fourth, in the birth of whom, or soon after, the
mother died. Never could fondnefs exceed that which Sir Ed
ward always cherilhed for the lovely mother of his children; nor
was it confined to her or them only, but extended itfelf to her
relations, for all of whom he some way or other has provided.
A (liter he took into the house, and who still lives with him with
unblemished reputation. His grief at the loss of his wife (for
such in efleft (he was) was proportioned to his love : he coniLuit*
Iy declined all overtures of marriage, and gave up his life to the
education of his children. He had often been prompted to unite
himfell to Mrs. Clement by legal ties, and was pi evented only by
the reflection that the children he then had would, Ihould he have
others alter mairiage, be considered in a light so different from
those others, that his flrong parential affeflion could not bear-to
create tire difference. Some have alledgcd, that the threats of his
father, Sir Robert, prevented his marriage; who avowed, that
if he married Mrs. Clement, he would not only deprive him of
his political intereff, but exert it against him. Ithasbeen, how
ever, always said, by thole who had access to know, that had
Mrs. Clement survived Sir Robert to the age in which it might be
cxpettcd fhe_ would cease to become a mother, that she would
then have been certainly lady Walpole.
.About the year 1758, his eldelt daughter, Laura, became the
wife of the Hon. Frederick Keppel, br ther to the Earl of Albe
maile, and afterwards Bishop of Exeter. His firfl paflion was
for Maria ; but not making the progress in her atfeftions which he
expected, he transferred li s vows to her filler, by whom thev
were inflantly accepted. Though this was no great match in it
felf, conftdering the fortune which Sir Edward gave his daughters,
(Mr. Keppel having at that time very little church provision, and
no hereditary fortune) yet in its confluences it became highly im
portant.
The Miss Walpoles now took a rank in society in which they
had never before moved. The fillers of the Earl of Albemarle
were their conllant companions, and introduced them to people
of quality and falhion ; -they ctuillantly appeared at the firfl routes
and balls; and, in a word, were received every were but at court.
The lligma attending their birth shut them out from the. drawing
room, till marriage (as is the cafe of Mrs. Keppel) had covered
the defeff, and given them the rank of another family. No one
watched their progref.N upwards with more anxiety than the Earl
Waldegrave. Tiiis Nobleman (one of the proudell in the king
dom) had long cherished a paflion for the all-conquering Maria J
her education and manners made any idea of her being prevailed
on to copy the falfe fleps of her mother, on any terms, too im
probable to benourifhed ; and he saw that the only termson which
he could hope to obtain a hearing from the lady, were those of
marriage—and that she would hcarhim even on those terms was
very doubtful, for his Lordlhip was above twenty years older than
the object of his admiration. The struggle between his paflion
and Ins pride was not a short one, nor is it clear which of the two
would have been vittor inthecontefl, had not the marriage of Mrs.
Keppel, and the subsequent importance of her fillers thrown the
over-balance into the scale of love.
'Having conquered his own difficulties, it now only remain
ed to attack the lady's. The Peer made his approaches in
form, and was flatteringly received. The lady had no prepof
feflion ; and Lord Waldegrave, though not /oung, was not dfa
grecable; his manners were polite, and his offers suited to his
rank. A few months elevated the lady into a sphere which,
looking back, mull have aflonilhcd her. AsaCoun'efs she had
a more extended vortex, and of course the number of her admi
rers increal'ed : and it is probable that many men of fafhion now
wondered that they let such a jewel escape them. Her very ami
able condu£l through the whole life of her Lord added refpeA
and efleem to the warmefl admiration. "Young, beautiful, an
old husband and a Countess." What a constellation of tempta
tions mud Ihe have been surrounded by? yetlhe retained, amidst
them all, the purell manners and the purest name. Amongst
others who sighed for her in hopeless ardours, was the Prince o£
Mccklenburgh, brother to our gracious Queen. He made no se
cret of his paflion; it was talked of every where; and Lord
Waldegrave, in the triumph of his heart, used jestingly to entreat
his lady to have compaflion on the Prince.
About five years after their marriage, the small-pox attacked
his Lordlhip, and proved fatal. His Lady found herfelf a young
widow, and, what may appear flrange, inconsolable! Had Lord
Waldegrave pofTeffed every advantage of youth and beauty, his
death could not have been more sincerely regretted by his amia
ble relist. At length she emerged again into the world, and
love and admiration every where followed her. She refufed
many offers; amongst others, the noble Duke lately at the head of
adminiflration loudly proclaimed his discontent at her refufal.
But the daughter of Mary Clement was destined to royalty !
Whether his Royal Highness firfl endeavoured to obtain her good
wishes on easier terms than those ofmarnage, will always remain
doubtful; but certain it is that the Duke of Gloucester and the
Dowager of the Earl Waldegrave were married some years before
she took the title ol Princess, or their marriage was announced.
This alliance now is acknowledged in every court in Europe ;
many of which the royal pair have diftinguilhed by their resi
dence. Two children, a Prince and Princess, are the fruits of
their marriage; and it is within the bounds of probability, that
the descendants of the poftmaftar at Darlington may one day sway
the liritifh sceptre.
These authentic anecdotes may be important to the future his
torians of this country; and to their, they are dedicated.
(Britijh publicum.)FABLE.
£THE absurdity of attempting luch amendments to the Constitu
tion ot the United States as will remove the objc&ions of every
individual, was not better ridiculed in the celebrated simile of
the Breeches, than it is by the following, taken from Profei
for Gelliht'j Fables.]
A VILLAGE in Germany had the privilege
of clioofing their own minilter. At one of their
meetings, after the decease of their old pallor,
it was moved and seconded by some honest pea
sants, to give the place to nobody, but to luch a
one, who, by the power of his prayers, would
be able to make rain or funlhine, according to
the wilhes and true welfare of his parishioners:
as it was found in the Bible, that some prophets
of old had been entrusted with such powers;
*md St. James observed, that the energy of the
prayers of Elijah were not unattainable by other
men. The whole aiiembly perceived the advan
tages of luch a resolution, and adopted it. It
required some time before they could meet with
fncli a subject, though they spared no means to
make their intention known ; but at lalt they
succeeded ; a candidate profefled to be pollelled
of luch powers, and, upon his solemn promise
to exercile them whenever required, was initia
ted. Not long after they met and relolved to try
the expediency of the laid measure, and the mi
nilter was called. Sir, laid the foreman, we wifli
now that you perforin your promise, and make
lis the weather for to-morrow. With all my heart,
laid the minister, what weather do you wish tu
fee to-morrow ? Why, fir, replied Stephen, a lit
tle rain would aflilt the crop amazingly. Not
now, said Godfrey, by any means ; for some ol
the village have begun the hay-making business :
I Ihould prefer clear weather. A cloudy day,
laid Hans, and rain in the evening, would be fa
vorable both to the hay and the crop. Sir, said
Thomas Hizkopf, I speak with impartiality : we
cannot help that some of our people were pre
mature in cutting their hay: plentiful rain the
crop requireth ; and plentiful rain we will have
by my honor. Let me speak one word, said
Chriltian King : you all, brethren know my ex
perience in the farming way, as long as I can re
member I have found the greatelt benefit from
thunder lhowers, only not mixt with hail at this
season of the year : let us agree to that, reve
rend Sir, answered Wilhelm Plauderer, I hope
you, as a divine, fee the malicious tendency of
the proposal: there are bad people in your flock,
Sir: they wish to ruin their neighbours—Stop,
my dear hearers, said the young parson ; don't
quarrel here : as soon as you can come to an
agreement among yourselves I shall be ready to
make you the weather. The man, it is said,
enjoyeth still his living in peace, unlufpeOted
ot having promised more than he was able to
perform.
MR. FENKO,
iou are iejired toinfert theinclofedin your pLtper: It mav eithez
prove to be a remedy agamjl the HcJJian Fly, or may lead to the difcove/)
cf one. your's, (3c.
An Extract the printed report of the Privy Council of Great.
Britain, of their enquiry about the Hcllian Fly.
Method of defraying the fxikg Wail in Bavaria, in a letter from Mr
Wauoii, M/nferfrom the Court of Great-Britain, at Munich, ti
the Marquis cj Carmar th in , Sec/etary of State.
" A PERSON put on a heap of corn, thyme and sweet mai -
jorum, and changed each ot thele plants every 24 hours, inhopes o!
•difcovenng one which would answer his puipofe. Hemp w. s
also tried : He took a handful and put it on a heap of corn, ai.d
found the next morning that the hrtnp was full of Wevils. These
1 ittle black animals fcem to have thefmell of a curious nature, since
they find the bad scent of hemp agreeable, and it appears they like
the folt rind of it. 1 hig handtul of hemp was picked out of the
grainery and winnowed, and put again on the corn. The result
was that 111 five days afterwards there were no Wevils to be seen in
the said heap ol corn. In the season when there was no green
hemp, they made ule of mouldy old hemp and with equal fucccfs,
, except that it required a longer time to deltroy these tn(> fts. When
the Wevils appeared again in the month of May the following year,
in less quantities, and at that period, there was only the tow or
heards of hemp that was already prepared to spin; nevertheless the
luccefs was the fame, and in eight days time all the wevils wcrt
removed. Perhaps linen might be used, ilcepeo ill the juice of
hemp where the hemp is not cultivated, and the event mii'ht turn
out equally fuccefsful. However, it is necelfary to (hake the hemj>
well that is put on the corn, and to stir the corn if it is in »reai
quantities, in order to hring the Wevils to the furfacr. This ex
periment was made also in a rainy luminer, when it was neceflary
to collett together the {heals which were very wet, and carry them
into the grainery. which of course produced a fermentation in the
barn as well a« the grainery, and from that cause, many Wevils
Hemp was made use of very early in the fprinjt. and the coin stir
red at the fame time, and as the exceflive heat aioie from it the
Wevils difappearcd."
LITERARY ARTICLE.
MADAME la Baronne df. V \.sse is about to
publish at Paris, a History of the Revolution, in
America, La Revolution de /'Amerique, &c. in two
vols, octavo—priceto fubferibers 10 livres (1 4/2.)
It will include a period of 27 years, beginning at
1 760 ; and Madame de Vasse allures u.s, that the
information it conveys may be relied on—it being
compiled from authentic documents, and indis
putable authorities alone, by an unprejudiced
and impartial writer. We are alio told, that it
has been approved by Dr. Franklin and other
American gentlemen, who have feenit in manu
icript ; and that an English author of some dif
tinvftion in the literary world, hasfo high an opin
ion of it as to be engaged in tranflatiug ir It is
just publiihed.
NATIONAL P/.RAGRAPHS.
THE revenue system of Great Britain is a lyf
tcm of checks: This is founded on the longelt
experience that any commercial country can boalt:
It is the rel'ult of an accurate knowledge of hu
man nature ; and is placing matters upon the on
ly principle that can ensure the lealt profped: ol
a punctual collection of the impolt.
How far checks may be provided which lhall
operate in the different States, so as to affeCt the
general interelt of the union, or whether every
particular State mult not be provided with a fyl
tem of this kind, which shall extend no farther
than the limits ol such State, is perhaps worthy
of attention ; but except this principle is inter
woven in the texture of our plans of revenue,
we lhall find ourselves guilty of amoft eflential
omission—and the fyltem like the old confedera
tion, will prove a rope of land.
Every lion ell man will readily recognize the
obligations which are imposed. upon him by law,
for the faithful difcliarge of the duties annexed to
any office to which he may be appointed; and
this he will do, not only from a judicious re
gard to his own reputation, but alio to sanCtion
tliofe checks which it is absolutely neceflary, that
a great proportion of characters lliould be con
trouled by, who will always find methods to in
troduce themselves into public departments:
Checks can never injure the feelings of a good
man, and every one acknowledges, that they
are requiliteto deterjthej unprincipled, by mak
ing it their interelt to be jult and lionelt.
The proceedings of Congress have hitherto
been so open, unreserved, candid and explicit—
the spirit of theconllitution (so far as all parties
have generally agreed in it) lias been so ltri<ftly
adhered to, and the fubjecft of amendments has
been taken up at so much earlier a period than
the diflatisfied expected, that there is every rea
son to suppose the seceding States will have every
objection done away ; and will very Joon come in
to the Union, by ratifying the fyltem.—Not one
inaulpicious anticipation has been realized—nor
is there theffiadow of reason to suppose, that the
withes of the free citizens of tliefe States will not
be fully gratified, by having the constitution
made more perfect than it now is, if pojjible.
It has been said that society has not yet arrived
to its liighelt degree of perfection—lmprovements
are to be made, and this lalt poliffi appears to be
reserved for the inhabitants of tliefe riling States.
It is true we are yet too much tramelled with the
ideas and fy Items of European countries ; but their
influence is daily diminilhing, and will undoubt
edly finally be done away : The immense ocean
that rolls between us and the old world, operates
as a molt powerful impediment to the encreafe of
exotic habits and manners. America ihould eltab
lifli her character for originality upon principles
which will admit of boundless improvements.
Europe, and particularly Great-Britain, has pass
ed her zenith, and is evidently 011 the decline ;
but America is in the morning of her glory here
society lhall fee its tie plus ultra, and the display
of the powers of the human mind be extended to
limits hitherto undefined.
Thedoineltic tradeof the United States is an ob
ject of the greatest importance : It arrelts the at
tention of every patriotic mind : Independent of
the numerous advantages that will accrue to the
several States, and to the revenue, from having a
wife fyltem adopted to regulate the intercourse
between the different parts of the Union—the po
litical consequences are of a very salutary and ex
tensive nature. It is Commerce that forms the
chain of connection between distant countries
and has contributed to civilize and polish the mind
of man, and encreafe the pleafuresof lociety. A
more frequent and intimate intercourse between
the inhabitants of these States will be attended
with limilar effeCts ; belides giving them a more
perfect knowledge of the resources of their
country, for all the purposes of commerce, ma
nufadtures,agriculture,and independent hapj>infs.
" There is that withholdeth more than is meet
but it tendeth to poverty."_ The truth of this is
often verified, but its bad policy may be more
itrongly exemplified in respeCt: to public officers
than in any other inltances that can be cited :
Generous salaries are the 1110 ft powerful induce
ments to fidelity in the servants of the public •
They command the belt abilities, and the fair eft
characters : They cut off a powerful temptation
to <li(honefty, and give respeCt, dignity, and ener
gy to the government. If we would have our
public offices we!l filled, we mult pay well • In
the Revenue, in particular, it will be found the
wifeu, cheapest, and moll productive plan.
Drawbacks of the duties 011 goods exported
open a door to frauds: It has been said that more
1 obacco has been exported from a particular port
111 Scotland, and the drawback received 011 the
fame than had been imported in the fame time
into the whole kingdom : Nevertheless, diaw
bacKs are neceflary Hence the neceflitv of truft
lng nothing to apparent principles; but depend
ing solely 011 the molt energetic vigilance.
MR. FENNO,
A WRITER in the Daily Mvertifer of yester
day, has thought proper in an apologetical ellay"
to assign lome very extraordinaiy rcafonsfor the
flow progress that Congress makes in tranfatftina
public bulinefs : This writer's information res!
peeling murmurs on this account may be authen
tic ; but it appears to me, very different fuggef.
tions would come nearer the truth of faA. From
the ardour and expectation in the minds of the
citizens at large, complaints were anticipated
iliould occaiion call for them ; but what lavs ex
perience ? Scarce a murmur has been lisped—the
good sense of the people discerns the innumera
ble difficulties that obtrude themselves ou every
hand, and patience and candour triumph over the
peeviflmefs of human nature.
But the most surprising idea that could enter
into the imagination of a timid politician, and
which is afligned asa reason for extra caution and
deliberation is, the " precarious eftablilhment
of the constitution; the peculiar vigilance with
which all parties observe its motions, and the
holtiliries which lie in ambufli to watch the mo
ment of exposure, and to blast its ripening, but
tender growth." Thanks to that good Provi
dence, which has hitherto guarded America,
rhefe sentiments have no place in the minds
of the pre/cut Federal Congrefs.—ldeas like
tliefe, would neceflarily lead to weak, wavering,
and indecisive condudt; and we might wait till
the morning of the refurredtion, before we Ihould
realize that we were blefled with any government
it all.—The conftitrution of the union, is, how
ever, established upon so solid a basis, that an en
tire revolution of lentiment in the public mind,
with refped: to an objeift from which they de.
rive every expectation of political happiness,
must precede every poflible danger of precati
oufnefs in its establishment. That the constitu
tion ftiould be watched with vigilance is the du
ty of its friends ; and it is true, there is an unu
l'ual vigilance at the present moment; but it is
directed to the operations of Congress, from a de
sire that they fhouldact up to the spirit and mean
ing of the system with vigour, energy, and dis
patch—on rliis all our hopes are founded.
As to the " hostilities which lie in ambulh"it
is not poUible to conceive what can be meant.—
There never was a formidable party against the
constitution; and at the present moment tliofewho
have had their doubts, are as anxious as its
warmed advocates for its speedy operation.
Suspicion gives birth to party ; and of all the
evils that attend government, there is none
pregnant with more fatal effects than indeci/ion
and timidity: There never was a people so tho
roughly informed as we are in the principles
of government, or more fatisfied with the
nature and tendency of their own constitution.
The firm and immoveable eftablilhment of this
whole plan, is suspended upon giving its prin
ciples a complete operation : to recede, or to move
with a dilatory, doubting step, will create facti
ons, will fanrtion complaints, and render nuga
tory all that has been done. C.
ONE OF THE PEOPLE.
FROM THE CONNECTICUT COURANT.
Meflieurs PRINTERS,
I OBSERVE you have republifhed the account of thentw in
vented shuttle, that runs on wheels, and by means of which cloth
10 quarters wide may be wove. It may not be amiss to inform
your readers that there are now in this place three broad and one nsr
row loom constantly worked with the spring or fly fhuttle —the
extra expenceof fitting a loom in this manner for a fhuttleand
iron work, is from twelve to fifteen fhillrngs, according to the
size of the looms. By means of this invention, a single perfoa
can weave cloth three yards wide—a few hours prafticAii. fuffici
ent to learn a common weaver to throw the Ihuttle—Any carpen
ter who is used to make the common looms, can from injpclling
tbefc, erect the broad looms, and add what is neeellary to carry
the fly shuttles. There is neither myflery or difficulty attending
working th?m when once observed. All looms de/igned to
weave cloths a yard wide and upwards, should be worked in
this manner. It is much to be wished that the country weavers
would get reeds and harness to make their cloths ijyard wide in
the loom, so that they may be wide when fulled and drefTcd.
The flannels of this width would always command calh in this
city—which will soon lie theJlapu of loooUn cloth as well as of
woo/ for this State. If the principal weavers in each town would
erect, fay two or three broad looms to a town, where the yarn,
made out of the wool that is too coarse for the fabric of fine cloths,
might be wove into blankets and coatings, they would net much
more to the farmers than making it into yard wide flannels, as
is now pra£lifed. Such flannels would always fell at the faft°r)
in this town—and in this way immense quantities of coarse cloths
might soon be made, even for exportation. The whole expence
of a broad loom and the necefTary apparatus, maybe four pounds.
Hartford, July 3, 1789.
FOREIGN ARTICLES.
London, April 27.
Extratt of a letter from Paris, April 12. .
" The, clc&ions are still going on very peaceably, in g^ n^
Bretagne is the only province in which we hear of any 01 ur
banceon this account. The nobles are there still as much at va
riance with the Third Estate as they were at the beginning, 1 " 0
much that we do not find that any deputies are yet ele&ed. 1
delay will, however, make no difference in the assembly 0
States-General at Versailles, which is still determined tor the 27
of this month. All the furnifhed lodgings at Versailles are are
dy taken by government, for the accommodation of the depu 1 >
lomeof whom are already arrived. The meeting is to bene
the room in which the notables aflembled ; considerable a " ? ut
are, however, making, not only for the number of deputies,,
for the accommodation of the public ; a large galley 15 eTC J
lufHcient to contain three thousand persons. who wi-be a n ll
1 by tickets, and a large space is left for the peon'., hi genera.All the towns which fend give them, on their
« , hook of inftruftions relative to the qucftions they pro
/ Tp-itated in the alTembly. These are nearly the fame
f 11 miners; and it appears, in general, that the English
n . it taken asabalis. The principal points are, a fixed
fnrthc Km'; responsibility of the ministers; a ftateof the
rCVf " U !i ,1,-ht ■ a fund for the payment of part, and for a national
" atlon f t j,e reft; a periodical alfemhly of the States; the H
wu of the press; personal freedom, and an assurance of proper-
Lnoikesforthe repair of the highways , habeas corpus, and
* 1 hi iurv ' abolition of cuftoni duties, for goods brought from
o"e province to another 5 the receipt of taxes by means less bur-
Sv..Tie and oppressive thaft bv the Farmers General; annihilati
on of hy wluch the privilege and rank of no
h litvare now purchased; an equal participation of all taxes.
These are the principal objects recommended irom all parts; but
I'\ fuopofed, that such a variety of important matter will
farce be taken into conftderation during the firil fefrion, and that
hose article, only, which immediately relate to the finances, will
Itthe objtftsof difcuflion at this meeting; the reft w.ll be reser
ved for a future assembly.
'•But though evrry thing is thus quiet refprfting political af
fairs the dearnefs of bread has given occasion to very violent tu
mult's in feme of the southern province. At Atx, Marfatllcs,
and Toulon, the riots have been carried to a very great height.
Frida/ night as two young ladies were in deep converlatton 111
viewing the transparent paintings, &c. at Mr. Bellingham's.
Great Tower Hill, a youth that flood by them was observed to
Hoop to rub his legs at different times; he removed three of then
buckles, and got clear off; in moving the other buckle he was felt.
At Cl'erkenwell fcflions, on Tuelday, Mr. King's coachman,
who drove against the Brentford stage, and thereby assaulted the
palfengers, was tried, found guilty, ordered to be publicly whip
ped, and imprisoned for fix months.
There is at prcfent living, and has rclided in the town ol Kil
marnock, Ayrfhirc, these forty nine years, one John Craig, car
ter a-edioj. Heborearmsin the North Britiih dragoons 111
the year 1715, and was in the fervicefixteen years. He still earns
his daily bread by his own labour, never complaining of a fore
head, and remains a batehelor; betakes his bottle freely at night
with his old companions, and hopes to live many years longer-
AMERICAN ARTICLES.
PHILADELPHIA, JULY 4.
This 'forenoon an ORATION was delivered by the Reverend
William Rogers, before the Pennsylvania State Society of the
Cincinnati, in Arch-Street meeting house * the President and Su
preme Executive Council of the State—the officers of the militia
of the city and liberties—the uniform companies of cavalry, artil
lery, and light infantry, and a large body of citizens were prcfent.
The Oration appears to have had two things in view, viz, the
commemoration of liberty and independence ; and a modclt con
sideration of the principles of the Society ot the Cincinnati: Ihe
Day, the Speaker reprefentcd as the Sabbath of our Freedom.
The revolution (not less extraordinary in its consequences, than
in the means by which it was produced) he spoke of as one ot the
greatest earthly blessings.
As far as we can recoiled, he told us that realon suggested op
pofitionto tyranny, and fortune led the way to Columbia's 1 glory.
The love of freedom, drawn into action by ajuft fenfeof injury,
was the great charatteriftic of the revolt, which quick as eleftnc
flame, fprcad from breait to breast throughout the continent.
The institution of the Society of the Cincinnati, he reprefent
cd as founded upon a balis the moll honorable, with views the
mod friendly, humane, and patriotic ; this was done by adverting
to the origin ot the various ordeis which have been eitablifhed
inEurope, and drawing a very linking line between them and
that society to which the glorious independence of America had
given birth—even that independence which was telt, in lorae de
gree in every quarter of the globe: lor the rights ot mankind
which heretofore were a theme ot mere speculation, America had
furiiithed a practical lelTon to the woild. Here the milder admi
niftrationof government in France was introduced ; and mention
made of that spirit which had excited so universal a deteilation of
the African [lave trade.
To follow the Speaker through the whole of his Oration, is
not our intention, even if it were in our power ; but the manner in
which he introduced the federal government, deserves pai liculai
notice.—Without tumult and without intrigue, under the im
preflion of prudence and nccefiity, the united wisdom of the A
merican empire h;is been employed in deliberating upon the belt
means of perpetuating the fruits of freedom and independence.
The kingdoms of Europe have since seen with wo .der and ap
plause, the voluntary and peaceful adoption of a system of govern
ment, the traits of which are power with responsibility, and liberty
withoutlieentigufnefs.'' That an event so extraordinary should
have been thus speedily and happily accomplffhed, he afcribcs,
with all the glow of piety, to the interpolation of that Being
whose Throne is exalted in the Heavens.
We hope we lhall be excused in thus descanting on a peiform
snce which has given much latista&ion, and made an abiding lm
preflion on our mind.
Towards the close of the Oration, Mr. Rogers, alluding to the
Societv of the Cincinnati, observed, If the experienced worth,
the honor and wisdom of its members, can fanfufy an inllitution,
what is there wanting to complete its reputation ? No form of as
sociation wase\"er necessary to blazon the merits of our lus
trious Washi ncton, the admired President of these Lm ted
States: —Whom God long preserve ! In this Ihort petition every
tongue is ready to shout Amen ! The name of our lamented
Greene was mentioned, with those of the immortal Gates,
Lincoln, &c.
In the course of the Oration many things were enlarged upon,
2nd due compliments paid to the virtues of a hofl of heroes, who
facrificed their lives in the service of this country.
The whole was delightfully closed with a tervent wish that no
on this anniversary, would prove himfelf unwortfiy ot the
freedom he enjoys, by a line of conduct incompatible with the pu
pleafures, by any thing, unbecoming the chara&cr of men or
°f chriftians.
Time, and the room allotted to this article, prevent our en
ding ; though we are sensible that to dwell longer on the fubjetf
would be no small gratification to our readers, especially to
those who were not able to attend On the occasion. Ihe oration
no doubt will be published ; as the manner of its delivery and
sentiments it contained met with universal applause*
Newbury-Port, July i.
A letter of a late date from a gentleman in one of the south
ern States, to his friend in this town, fays, " A young woman,
ln a pallion, lately jumped out of an upper window upon the
pavement. Herbruife by the fall accafioned a lock jaw—No force
could open her mouth—A large vial wai highly charged wit!
c tftrical fluid, and discharged upon her jaws—instantly hei
flew open, and she recovered."
HARTFORD, JULY 4, 1789,
zxtrafl of a letter from Mansfield (Gonnetticut) da
ted June 18.
" The lofles sustained liere by the late extra-
OHlinary flood, were two fulling mills, seven
" r idges, sundry mill dams, &c. besides fences
were entirely swept away on every confi
scable jheam, of which we have many in this
P ace - — The whole damage cannot be afcertain
> " ut beleive it to be in public and private pro-
Y> to the araoant o^'near one tlioufand pounds
ON ANTHONY BENEZET.
LET rofcs deck and franklinia* (hade
The hallowed spot where EENEZET is laid—■
Let cruelty at awful distance tread,
Nor near his grave uplift her gorgon head ;
But doves and linnets through the covert play,
And harmless lambkins o'er his allies ftray—>
Who while on earth celestial mercy woo'd,
And taught the aobleft way of doing good.
Let Alric's sons the sacred spot review—
With tears of gratitude his turf bedew,
Then fay, as mournfully they leave the place,
This was the FRIEND and PATRON ofour race.
Oh Benezet! pale Death has thrown his dart,
But thou'rt entomb'd in every generous heart:
Thy god-like actions ever (hall be rung,
While love, or truth, or charity be sung.
BRUTUS.
Wilmington, June to, 1789.
* Frauklinia Alatamaha—a beautifulflowering tree-likefhrub dif.
covered on the Alatamaha river, in Georgia, by John Burtram, and na
med after the patron ojfciences, Dr. Franklin. It rises to the h.ight oj
about 20 feet, the leaves are oblong narrowed towards the base, sawed 0/,
t!i• edges, and placed alternately. The flower s are jive inches in diame
ter when J ally expanded, composed offivelargeroundifh spreading petals,
ornamented in the centre with a tuft or crown of gold colouredJlamina,
and pojfefled wtth the fragrance of a China orange. See ArbuJlrum A
meruanum, by Humphrey Marshall.
SKETCH of PROCEEDINGS of CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES.
WEDNESDAY, JULY 8, 1789.
MR. PATRIDGE of the committee appointed
to examine the enrolled Bill laying a duty on
Tonnage, reported, That they had found the
fame corred:—the Speaker then affixed his Signa
ture.
Mr. Clymer requefled leave of absence till
next Monday fe'nnight—which was granted.—
The Committee on the Petition of Andrew Elli
cot brought in a report, which was ordered to lie
011 the table.
In Committee of the whole on the Bill to regu
late the collection of the Impost, farther pro
gress was made in the difculiion this day—and
the committee permitted to resume the fubjedt
again to-inorrow. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, JULY 9.
Mr. Patridge reported, That the Committee
appointed for that purpose had waited upon The
President with the Tonnage Bill, and present
ed the fame for his approbation and signature.
Mr. Gerry, of the committee appointed to pre
pare estimates, brought in a report, which was
read, and laid on the table.
In committee of the whole on the Collection Bill.
Mr. Trumbull in the chair.
Upon the Article providing for allowances to
the Collectors &c. of the Revenue—several
proportions were offered—l pr. cent.—halfpr. cent,
and one quarter pr. cent, upon the amount of the
duties collected, were mentioned ; but a clause
proposed by Mr. Laurance to the following pur
port, was finally adopted, viz. That the Collec
tors of the following ports, viz. Salem, Bojlon,
New-York, Philadelphia, Baltimore, Norfolk, and
Portsmouth in Virginia, and Charlejion, South-Ca
rolina, should receive one half pr. cent, on the a
mount of the duties by them refpecftively collect
ed—and the Colle<ftors of all other diflricfts men
tioned in the aift, I pr. cent.
The following fees were likewise agreed to by
the committee : Dol.
For each entry of a fliip or veflel not whol- ~j
ly the property of a citizen or citizens of the t 6
United States, ... J
For each entry of any other (hip or vef- "J
fel of 100 tons burthen or upwards, arriving I
from any foreign port,having 011 board goods, j
&c. fubjeifi to a duty, - J
For each entry of any reff'el under too j
tons burthen from a foreign port, having V 3
011 board goods, &c. fubje<ft to a duty, j
For each entry of all other veflels, I
Cents.
For every permit to unlade goods, 2C
For every bond to secure payment of the 1
duties, - ' - " " J
For every permit to export goods on which i
a drawback of duties is allowed, - j
The aforefaid fees to be divided between the
Collector and Naval-Officer. Dol.
To each Surveyor, for services on board 1
any veflel not wholly the property of a citizen I
or citizens of the United States, and having f
goods, &c. lubjeifl to a duty, * j
For services on board any other veflel, • 2
For services onboard any veflel wholly be
longing to a citizen or citizens of the United V 3
States,and having goods,&c. fubjedt to a duty, j
For services on 'board all other veflels, I
These fees to be paid by the matter or owner of
such veflel.
To each Infpecftor while employed, 1 1 Dol.
pr. day, (to be paid out ofthe revenue,) J 2Scents
1 Cents.
Measurers, Weighers, and Gaugers are 1
to be allowed, for measuring every ioobufh-
els of fait or grain, - J
For every ioo bushels of Cosu, 2^
i Cent
Weighing every i iiwt.
Gauging every ca(k, - 6
To be paid by the holders of the goods.
FRIDAY, JULY 10.
In committee of the whole on the Bill to re
gulate the collection of the Impost.
The difcufliort of the Bill was compleated this
day—when the committee rose.
Upon motion it was voted, That the chairman s
report lhould be received to-morrow.
Upon motion of Mr. Thatcher it was voted,
That ioo copies of the estimate of supplies for
I 789, as reported by the committee, fliould be
printed for the accommodation of the members.
Mr. Park er had leave of absence for one month,
and Mr. Trumbull for a fortnight.
Adjourned till to-mbrroiv, 10 o'clock.
NEW-YORK, JULY 11, 1789.
On Thursday last, the Addrcfs of the Honorable Legislature of
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts to The President of the
United States,was presented by the two Senators and eight Members
of Congress, from that diftrift: The committee wasmoft gracious*
ly received, and the Address answered with sentiment,
and politeness.
The President (thanks to kind Providence} is now restored
o his usual health.
ANNIVERSAR Y of INDEPENDENCE.
The celebration of the 14th anniversary of INDEPENDENCE
has been attended with Inch testimonials of public pleaiure
is fully evince that the people Consider theprefent as the moll auf*
picious period, Gnce the commencement of the gloriousdeclaration.
The town of Boston, as usual, exhibited eVery demonstration of
joy and feftivity : The oration, instituted by the town tor this
□ccafion, was delivered by the Rev. Dr. Stillman.
The oration to the Society of the Cincinnati by Dr.
Samuel WhitWel L,both of which were introduced by prayers.
There was a concert of vocal and instrumental muiic at the
Stone Chapel.
The military parade was not so extensive as usual. owing to the
unpromising appearance of the weather : Several Independent
Corps were however under arms.
TheCiNCiNNATij Cadets, Licht Infantry, and Fusi
liers dined at the public places, where elegant entertainments
had been prepared for them refpeftively.
Among other toajls on this occasion wecannot but notice the following:
BY EACH PARTY.
THE PRESIDENT, (with three cheers)*
The Vice President, and the Congreis of the United States.
Governor and Commonwealth ot Massachusetts;
BY THE CINCINNATI.
Our fair couutrv women, (three cheers.)
Non-commiflioned officers and privates of the late American army.
(three cheers.)
A restoration of the two stray fillers of the American Family.
May ambition never invade, nor licentiousness destroy the li
berties of America.
May the mantle of peace and friendfhip cover the world.
BY THE CADETS.
The Hon. James Bowdoin.
Gen. Lincoln, and the Fraternity of the Cincinnati : May we
emulate their virtues as citizens and loldiers, (three cheers.)
May the lajl sigh of nature attend the expiration of American
Freedom.
BY THE FUSILLIERS,
The Cincinnati of Massachusetts, and their Veteran President*
LOUIS XVlth. and the army and navy of France,
May our rulers be endowed with wisdom to form, and our ci
tizens with virtue to obey laws, calculated to promote the general
good«
We are informed that on Wednesday fe'n
night, a heavy thunder squall palled over Red-
Hook, from the weft or south weft; and that the
lightening struck the top of atree on the farm of
Judge Hoffman, and killed three valuable horfrs
that were under it.
We hear from Boston that the three Ships
which were set up in that town, soon after the
ratification of the Constitution, upon the molt
laudable and patriotic motives, are nearly com
pleated—and will in a few weeks be ready for
Sale:—These Ships are as good Veflels as can be
built, and are of a suitable burthen for the South
ern Trade:—we also hear that the Ship build
ing business has received a spring at Philadel
phia of late ;—A permanent goverment will in
due season set every wheel in motion.
Current cajh pricc of Proiijions, Be. in Bermuda.
Beef, pr. lb. Bd. || Common do. 43/4.
Mutton, id. II 24/ pr. cwt.
Veal, 3d. || Pork, £.4 10/ a £.5 p. b.
Pork, Bd. I| Ship Bread, 24 f. pr. b.
Krcfli Butter, If. a 1/3. |l Rum, 3/2. a 3/4. pr. gal.
Corn, 3/8. a 5/4. pr. bushel. || MufcovadoSugar, 48/. a c.
Superfine Flour, a 50/". b. |j Hyson Tea, i6fS. a 2cf. pr. lb.
Price' Current at Brandy wine Mills,
Wheat, 8/ a 8/4. I Middling do. 25/
Superfine flour, 4nf6. I Shipftuffypr. cwt. 7/6 a of.
Common do. 37/6. I Indian-corn, 3f
Threee months have now elabfedfince the commencement of
this publication : Our patrons willpleafe to notice the terms of fubjerrp
tion : Those at a difiance who can cause payments to be made in this city
will greatly accommodate and oblige the editor.
DEATHS,
AX his palace in Savern, near Strasbourg, in France, Cardinal
deßohan, the Exminifter of that kingdom.
In India. ZoffanY, a celebrated painter—who acquired by
painting Nabobs and Nabobinis, 40,0001. in a ftiort time.
ARRIVALS NEW-YORK.
Thursday. Sloop Sally, Laurence, St. Croix, 15 days.
Sloop Harlequin, Landen, St. Martin's, 15 days.
Sloop Nancy, Patton, Savanna, 8 days.
Friday. Brig Union, Difhong, Port au Prince, 9 days.
Sloop Godfrey, Millar, Norfolk, Virgin?a, 4 days
fcTThe IMPOST LAW of the United States may be had at the cjjice
of the Editor.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
\Continucd from our
Appius who secretly intended t® have liimfelf
continued, feeing tliofe great persons, who had
palled through all dignities, so eager in pursuit
of this, was alarmed. The people,charmed with
his pall conduct while decemvir, openly clamour
ed to continue him in preference to all others.
He affected at firft a reluifhmcc, and even a re
pugnance, at the thought of accepting a feebnd
time an employment so laborious, and so capable
of exciting jealousy and envy against him. To
get rid of his colleagues, ami to ltiniulate them
tc refufe theoflice, he declared upon all occafious,
that as they had discharged their duty with fide
lity, by their assiduity and anxious care for a
v.hole year, it was but jult to allowthem repose,
«nd appoint them fuccefiors. The more aversi
on he discovered, the more he was folicitecl.
The deiires and willies of the whole city, the u
naiiimous and earnest solicitations of the multi
tude, were at length, with pain and reluctance,
com plied with. He exceeded all his competitors
in artifice : He embraced one, took another by
the hand, and walked publicly in the forum,
in company with the Duillii and Icillii, the two
families who were the principals of the people,
and the pillars of the tiibunate. His colleagues,
who had been hitherto his dupes, knowing these
popular condescensions to be contrary to his cha
racter, which was naturally arrogant, began to
open their eyes : but not daring to oppol'e him
openly, they opposed their own address to his
management. As he was the youngest amon<>
them, they cftofe him president, whole office it
was to nominate the candidates to offices, rely
ing upon his modelty not to name himfelf; a
thing without example, except among the tri
bunes. But modesty and decency were found in
him but feeble barriers against ambition : he not
only caused himfelf to be elected, but excluded all
his colleagues of the lall year, and filled up the
nine other places with his own tools,threeof whom
were plebeians. The senate and whole patrician
body, were astonished at this, as it was thought
by them contrary to his own glory, and that of
his ancestors, as well as to his haughty character.
This popular trait entirely gained him the mul
titude. It would be tedious to relate the manner
in which they continued their power from vear to
year, with the moll hardened impudence on their
part, the most filly acquiefcencc of the people,
and the fears of the senate and patricians. Their
tyranny and cruelty became at length intolera
ble ; and the blood of Virginia, on a father's
dagger, was alone fufficient to arouse a stupid
people from their lethargy.
Is it not abfuid in Nedham to adduce this ex
ample, in support of his government of the peo
ple by their fucceflive representatives annually
•chosen ? Were not the decemvirs the people's
repi efentatives ! And were not their elections
annual ? and would not the fame consequences
have happened, if the number had been one hun
dred, or five hundred, or a thousand, instead of
ten "O, but the people of Rome should not
Jia\e continued them in power from year to year.'*
How will you hinder the people from continuing
them in power? If the people have the choice
they may continue the fame men and we cer
tainly know they will : No bounds can restrain
them. Without the liberty of choice, the depu
ties would not be the people's representatives
If the people make a law, that the fame man
fliall never serve two years, the people can and
will lepenl that law ; if the people impose up
on them selves an oath, they will soon fay and
believe they can dispense with that oath : In ffiort
the people will have the men whom they love best
for the moment, and the men whom they love best
will make any law to gratify their present humour.
Nay more, the people ought to be represented
by the men who hare their hearts and confidence
for these alone can ever know their wants and
desires : but these men ought to have fonie check
to restrain them, and the people too, when those
desires are for forbidden fruit—for iniuftice
cruelty, and the ruin of the minority -—And
that the desires of the majority ofthe people are
often tor mjufhee, and inhumanity against the
minority, is demonstrated by every pa?e of the
history of the whole world.
We come next to the examples of continuing
power in particular persons. The Romans were
1 wallowed up, by continuing power, too long in
the hands of the triumvirates of emperors or
generals The firft of these were Csfar, Pompey
and Craflus. But who continued the power of
Caesar ! If the people continued it, the argument
arising from the example is against a simple go
vernment of the people, or 'by their fuccefflve
representative assemblies. Was it the senate
was it the Handing permanent power in the con
stitution, that conferred this continuance of pow
er 011 Car far ? By no means. It is necefla
-1-y to recollect the story, that we may not be im
pofedon. No military station cxifted in Italy,
left some general might overawe the republic!
Italy however, was undftrltoocl to extend onlv
from Tar en turn to tlieArnus and the Rubicon •
Cisalpine Gaul was not reputed in Italy, and
might be held by a military officer and an army.
Caesar, from a deliberate and sagacious ambition,
procured from the people an unprecedented pro
longation of his appointments for five years ; but
the dillribution of the provinces was still the
prerogative of the senate, by the Sempronian
law. Caesar had ever been at variance with a
majority of the Senate. In the office of praetor
he had been suspended by them : In his present
office of consul he had set them at open defiance,
he had 110 hopes of obtaining from them the pro
longation of his power, and the command of a
province. He knew that the very propolal of
giving him the command of Cisalpine Gaul for a
number of years would have shocked them. In
order to carry his point he mult fetafide the au
thority of the senate, and destroy the only check,
the only appearance of a balance, remaining in
the conilitution. A tool of his, the tribune Va
tijiius, moved the people to set aside the law of
Sempronius, and by their own unlimitted power
name Caefa'as pro-consul of Cisalpine Gaul and
Illyricum for five years, with an army of seven
legions. The senate were alarmed, and in vain
opposed. The people voted it. The senate saw
that all was loft, and Cato cried, " You have
placed a King, with his guards, in your citadel."
Caesar boasted, that he had prevailed both in ob
taining the consulate and the command, not by
the concession of the Senate, but in direct oppo
sition to their will. He was well aware of their
malice, he laid. Though he had a consummate
command of his temper, and the profoundeft
dillimulation, while in purfhit of his point, his
exuberant vanity braved the world when he had
carried it. He now openly insulted tlite senate,
and no longer concealed his connection with
Pompey and CraH'us, whom he had over-reached
to concur in his appointment. Thus, one of the
cleared and strongest examples in history, to shew
theneceflity of a balance betwen an independent
senate and an independent people, is adduced
by Nedliam in favor of his indigested plan, which
has no balance at all. The other example of
Augustus, Antony, and Lepidus, is not worth
considering particularly ; for the trial between
them was but aftruggle of arms, by military po
licy alone, without any mixture of civil or poli
tical debates or negociations.
(To be continued.)
An ESSAY oh FREE TRADE and FINANCES.
[Continued from our last.]
I. That the tax be laid "with such judgment and
prude/ice, and different "weight on different articles,
that the coufumption of no articles {hall be diminijlyed
by it, beyond what the good and true interefl oj the
nation requires s for 'tis certainly better for the
merchant to deal with his customers in such arti
cles as are ufeful to them, and in such way that
they Hi all derive real benefit from their trade
with him, than to supply them with articles that
are useless and hurtful to them, and which of
:ourfe impoverish them. In the firlt cafe he will
make his customers rich, and able to continue trad-
Lng with him, and to make him good and punc
tual payments : In the other cafe he makes his
customers poor, and of course subjects himfelf to
I fie danger ot dilatory payments, or perhaps to a
final loss of his debts.
11. That the tax be universal and alike on every
part oj the country, for if one Hate is taxed and
.ts neighbour is not, the state taxed will lol'e its
trade. And
111. That the tax be universally collected. Smug
ging hurts the fair trader; favour and connivance
at collectors, to particular importers, through bri
bery, friendfhip or indolence, has the fame effect;
he person who avoids the tax can undersell him
who pays it, therefore 'tis the great interefl of
the merchant, when the duty is laid, to make it a
.leaded point, that every importer shall pay the
.luty ; and I am of opinion, that when the body
□ 1 merchants make it a decided matter to carry
my point of this nature, they are very able to
iccomplifli it ; they certainly know better than
ill the custom house officers and tide waiters 011
sarth, how to prevent 01* detecft Smuggling, and
to discover and punifli the indulgence or conni
vance of collectors, who may be induced to favour
particular importers, and they have the hiofieft
mtei eft in doing this, of any set of people in the
nation , and therefore I think it good policy to
tiuft tlus matter to their prudence, with proper
powers to execute it in the molt effectual way.
from a pretty extensive acquaintance, I am con
vinced, there is a profelfional honor in merchants
which may be fafely trusted, and I apprehend 'tis
a policy both needless and cruel, to fubjecc the
pei ions and fortunes of merc hants, the great ne
gociators of the nation's wealth, and a body of
men at lealt as refpecftable as any among us, to
the insults of cultom house officers and tide wait
ers, the rabble of which, I believe, are generally
allowed to be as corrupt, unprincipled, intolera
ble, andlow lived a set of villains as can be fcraned
out of the dregs of any nation ; and to set such fel
lows to watch and ? uard the integrity and honesty
mast re pet-table order of men, and fubjed
hon °rable and ufcful fellow citizens to such
mortifying infpedtion, appears to me to be furl,
an miult on common sense—such an outrage '
every natural principle of humanity and decent
—such a gross corruption of every degree J (
polished manners, that 1 should imagine i- must
require ages to give it that degree of practice Ja
eftabliflunent which has long taken place in o- e
Britain. The quickell way to make men k na «,
is to treat them as Inch. 'Tib a common obferva
tion, when a woman's character is gone, her cliaf
tity soon follows. Few men think thenifel v «
much obliged to exhibit inltances of integrity t
men, who will return them neither credit 11 !
confidence for their upright nels. Let every m °
have the credit of his own virtues, and be pre"
fumed to be virtuous till the contrary appears*
Honesty is as eflential and delicate a p- t , t 0 f j
merchant's cliaradter, as piety is of a c]eroy,„an's
or chaltity of a woman's, and you wound them
all alike sensibly, when youfhew by your conduct
towards them, that you even fufpeci: that they
are wanting in these character!(tic virtues. I
conceive nothing more is neceflary to make the
collection of this tax easy, than to convince the
merchants and indeed the whole community that
the tax is neceflary for the public service —f or
the eflential purposes of govemment ; and that
every one who pays it, receives a full competi
tion in the benefits he derives from the union -
and that the management of the affair be com
mitted to the merchants, to which, from the
nature of their profeffion and business, thay are
more adequate and qualified, than any other men •
and as it falls diretftly within the sphere of their
business, it fcemsto bean honour, a mark of con
fidence to which they are entitled, indeed let the
community at large "be convinced, that the money
proceeding from that tax is neceflary for the
public service, and that it can be collected with
more ease to the people in this way, than in the
mode hitherto proposed, and the colledion will
be easy and natural. The tax will ceafetobe
considered, like the tax formerly imposed onus
by the British parliament, unconstitutional in
their afleflinent, and useless in their expenditure,
(for they plagued us ,with taxes only to fatisfy
their harpies, little or none of the money ever
reached the British treasury) this tax is imposed
by our own people,—by our own representatives:
It must be imposed by Congrrfs indeed. As the
authority of any particular aflembly cannot be
adequate to it, in as much as it inuft operate alike
in all the states ; be alike universal in its efFedts,
and uniform in its mode of afleflinent and collec
tion ; and must therefore proceed from the gene
ral authority which presides over the whole union,
i. e. from the Congress, but 'tis a Congress of our
own appointment : For the members of Congress
areas much our representatives, andchofenby
our people, as the members of the several slate
aflemblies ; and the end and the life of the tax is
our own public service, to secure the benefits of
our union, without which 'tis impossible we Ihould
obtain res peJtability abroad,auniform adminiftra.
tion of civil police at home, an established public
credit, or full protection against. domestic or
foreign insult. I never knew any measure of
government opposed in its execution by the people
when a general conviction took place among the
people, that the measure was properly planned,
md was neceflary to the public good. We have
had full proof through the war, what great bur
dens our people will very cheerfully and even
without complaint, bear, when they are convinc
ed that the exigencies of the slate and the public
fafety make them neceflary.
(To he continued.)
THE NATIONAL MONITOR. No. XIV.
" The interests of men are various, but not incompatible with
each other."
THE wife and benevolent Creator of the world effrfts the iejl god
of mankind, by the variety of his operations : The dijfcrenccs of ch
mate—foil) and produce, of the fever al parts of the diver}-
°j genius—habits, and objects, which diflinguifh the inhabitants of
one country, from those of another, are circumflances which conduce to
this great design. Wc could scarcely conceive of any necessity for the ex*
iflente of enterprize, a&ivity and ingenuity, from which mankind it
me their mofl rejtned enjoyments, did nature exhibit a perpetual, and
perfctt uniformity in all quarters of the globe_ This wouldfupercede
the commercial interccrurfe of diflant nations ; and prove an ejfeflual
preveittative of improvements in trade, aits, and navigation. It would
repress the ardour of the human mind in all those pursuits which fprwg
f'°m afpmt of efnulation, and laudable ambition—it would " chill the
genial current of the foul"—confine to narrow limits the sphere of ac
tion, and extinguish the p-rofpefts of human life.
The American traveller, whose object is to acquire an adequate know*
ledge of the various parts of this continent, will oe flruck with the boun
tiful provision which the Author of Nature has here made for the founda
tion, and completion of the mofl independent empire that the world hath
ever beheld. America in herjef contains the feeds of her own greatness,
all that isneceflmy to conflitute flrength, confer power, and give digni
ty and huppinefs to an indepenent empire ; and fhouldthe time arrive,
when her travfatlavt'c cVnneffions shall become of trifling importance to
ier, as will vety probably be the cafe, fie will then pojje fs exhaufelfi
rejources for an extensive, and flour fhing commerce. There will
cxifl certain local circumflances to jorm a line of diflinftion between tie
inhabitants of the different parts of the Union: These diJtinß ions will
be f> far from volitating with the befl inter ef! of the whole, that tnci
will mofl efjvnUally contribute to promote it: Under the aufpiceiof ONz
GOl F RNMENT, which shall be conflituted by the genius, abilities, an
pah )otfm of the union, a filutary direction will be given to the //*''"
rtt of cofn petit ion, and rivaljhip in thejiveral States ; by which, their
resources nil/ le brought forth,' their growth and improvements greatly
accelerated, and their wealth individually promoted.
Pufelifhed by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maide^"
Lane, near the I)JiQCgQ-Mir%.et. New-York. —-[Qdol.Jdfl