iL-' Xttt f cbAp fci ffe
[No. XXIII.]
the TABLE T. No. XXIII.
« J course of rigorous felf-denia! in youth may prove
mimical to the happiness of old age."
1 N an excellent discourse which I heard a few
Sundays ago, the preacher exhibited, in a ltrik
; n o- point of light, the propensity of mankind to
facrifice their piofpetfis of future happiness to the
love of present gratification. As I Seldom wish
to call in question the propriety of religious ad
monitions ; and as, on this occasion, the illustra
tions were peculiarly pointed and forcible,l might
have proceeded to the end of life, under the full
conviction that such sentiments were just and rea
sonable, had not foine doubts been excited by the
following letter, I lately received from a friend.
The reader must be informed, that this acquaint
ance of mine retired a few years ago into the coun
try, with a view of foftening the asperities of life
by relaxation and indulgence. He had long been
engaged in bulinefs, with much care and allidui
ty, that he might put himfelfin circumltances to
enjoy leisure and amufeinent. But it happened
that his ardour to acquire property had produced
such habits of diligence and activity, that he is
utterly at a loss, how to occupy his mind, in the
tranquil scenes of so calm a retreat. Removed
from the anxiety and exercise of vigorous pur
suits, he cannot change his feelings with his situa
tion. In the early periods of life, he had solaced
himfelf with the expectations of finding exquisite
delight, in devoting his declining years to retire
ment, which might be alternately employed in
contemplation or diversions. But unfortunately
he did not confulttlie principles ofhuman nature.
No man can suddenly relinquish a course o(old
habits, without Subjecting liiinfelf to a tedious
interval, before he can for in new ones. By de
laying his accustomed sources of happiness, bad
as they may be, lie cannot readily adopt others
that are not worse. The letter, to which 1 allude,
thus describes the Situation of my correspondent.
" > May 10, 1780.
" D£ar Sir,
"Your congratulations are pleafmg, as they de
monstrate your good will and friend/hip ; but they
are painful, in convincing me that .you can wilh
my happiness more easily than I can realize it.
If any felicity can be derived from being happy
in your imagination, while in my own I am
ferable, you congratulate me with propriety.
" Yon will ask, and with great realbn, why I
am not happy ; and you will even wonder to hear
me complain, when at the fame time, I allure you
that 1 have not a wish ungratified. Still however
lam as unhappy a being as exilts. It is not dis
appointed ambition ; it is not an unfatisfied tem
per of avarice ; it is not perverse or disgraceful
condutft in my family ; it is not pain or infirmity
of body ; it is nota reluctance to leave this world,
orthe dread of appearing in another, that disturbs
my tranquility. No! None of thefecaufes oper
ate in my disquietude. My infelicity only relults
from disappointed hopes. I have formed expec
tations of happiness which I Shall never realize.
My anticipations were vain and fallacious, because
ilieyamufed me with profpedls that ware contrary
to the natural disposition of things. The mind
that has accustomed itfelf to reject present grad
uation, tor the fake of enjoying that which is
future, loses by this means the relish for any en
joyment at all. I am in poflellionof every ingre
dient to gratify my wilhes, that I ever hoped or
anticipated. They are far however from pro
ducing the effeJl I intended.
In short, my past habits are at variance with
pi ei'ent plans and profpeifls. We arefomuch
t e (laves of custom, that whatever mode of life
u .\ c ' on g pui sued, cannot be suddenly alter
s' " u ''°ut ft iking a dangerous blow upon our
AappineSs. In vain had I flattered mvfelf, that
e ! e S ant retreat would be a delightful fublli
ute oi the bustle and watchfulnefs of an anxious
, m P n ) mei it. Ihe disagreeable incidents of my
\vTi occu P at 'ons, have all efcapedmy memory ;
1 e the pleasing circumilances are heightened
tnc contrast oi my present Situation. I would
it\ ' • w^ latno 'l" e of tumult I could hear, if
vou d serve to wear away my tedious, vacant
'i", "'fiptd place of solitude. Every
K ' l: "' figured to inyfelf from this retire
awil' . las ' from my imagination. When I
am ~e 111 , ® morning, I cannot form Schemes to
lam t'!' C . t ' lrou gh the day ; and before night,
' hevl em ' Itec ' t0 believe that nature has changed
thei| l VS ' an 1 t ' lat :^e P lanet s do not move with
mvh™ "'I Verity- Thus, my friend, have
ferSnn l " > a "i" defeated ;as those of every other
me-v ' nU w ' lo expects that liberal enjoy
contentment, after a long and
'■ww woih' " - 0 ' kufi'icfi and. parfiinony. The
tie na'-!r,/' 110 ' oouer change its laws than
[ " ''' ''- cr to be concluded in our next number.]
WEDNESDAY, July I, 1789.
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
In the House (/REPRESENTATIVES of the UNITED STATES
[Friday, June ig.
Continuation of the debate on the qudlion, Whether the Secre
tary of the department offoreign afoirs, shall be removable by the I're-
Ilicit? '
Mr. Jackson : I am well aware Sir, how irksome it must be
to have another member rife upon this question ; but when I con
ttdei that the liberties of this country may be suspended upon the
decision, I feel it my duty to trespass once more on the patience
>f the committee: I (hall make but a few remarks.—Mr. Jackson
then adveited to the arguments which had beenfo strenuously ur
ged to prove the division, and diftinflion of the powers of the se
veral branches, and added, I deny Sir, that there ever was a go
vernment in which the powers were not blended in a greater or
less degree.— Shall we find it in Rome, or in any oi
the ancient governments ? Let us turn our eyes to Britain, or the
other powers of Europe—there we find that the will of the exe
cutive gives law to the legislature—Let us look into our constituti
on, there we fee the executive has a qualified legislative power—
his signature is required to complete the acts of government—he
may adjourn the House from time to time—Will gentlemen ftili
contend that the executive power is diftinft ? Wifl they explain
away these truths ? I call upon gentlemen to shew the ncceffity
of delegating this power; it cannot be maintained upon any prin
ciple, but that of rendering the President completely independent
of all controul by the legislature. Gentlemen have come forward
with their fpe&res.— The western territory was one, and molallts
was another of those frightful images; but now there is nothing
to alarm our apprehensions—all is perfectly fafe—l wilhthat gen
tlemen were more confident with themselves—Let us again revert
to ancient history—Carthage loft her liberties by taking power
from one branch to confer it upon another, and the accumulation
of power in one particular branch has swallowed up the liberties
of most of the ancient republics.—lt has never yet been proved,
that the power which appoints, is not the power to remove.—l
think the constitution has fettled this question.
The President has already the Iword ; there will be a time when
America will have an army—l do not confine my remarks to the
present period—Let us look forward, when a different character
from that which now presides, may be in the chair—The purse
ftringswillbe in his hands, and these with an army at his command,
will enable him to lay prostrate the liberties of America—this is
no fpeftre ; experience of past ages confirms the obfervation,that
a wile people, will never let their liberties lye at the meer will
and pleasure of any man. Some gentlemen fay there is no danger,
as the President ischofen from the mass of the people—others de
ny this—how (hall we reconcile these opposing opinions?
I call upon gentlemen to shew that there is no check upon the
Piefide nt provided in the ronftitution.
The celebrated Mr. Wilson, is of opinion, that the Senate is de
fined as this check. This sentiment is confirmed by other wri
ters of reputation : Sir, I ihall add nothing iurther, but mv as
sent to the motion for flriking out the claulc.
Mr. Baldwin : I have felt, Sir, an unusual anxiety during the
debate upon this question, as I consider a proper dtcilion upon it,
OTcflinuil 111 XIITTvv -furtP.qri' i.er frT+TV •-rrr«*rnCTU.
The main obje&ion totheclaufe is, that wi lliall violate the Con
stitution, by giving this power to the President—we have been re
minded of our oaths, and with great solemnity warned against this
violation ; but in my opinion, gentlemen should alter their mode
of exprcflion, and fay, that their conJlruCljons of the Constitution
will be violated.
The principle ground of opposition to the Constitution, as I am
authorised from the best information to fay, was the aflociation of
the President with the Senate : ihall we not do away this objec
tion, by drawing a line of separation as far as lies in our power ?
It has repeatedly been said, that the power that appoints lhould
be the only power to remove ; but I deny the consequence; it docs
not follow ; the judges only are to be removed by the Senate ; the
power of removal docs not, and ought not to exist in the power
that appoints.
This principle is not pursued by the Senate itfelf in the Judi
ciary Bill ; there the power that appoints the inferior officers of
the Federal Courts has not the power of displacing those officers.
If this had been the sense of the Convention who framed the
Constitution, the clause, " to be removed in like manner," would
have been added.
The maxim among the wisest legislators is, that the reCpe&ive
branches should not be blended any further, than is necessary to
carry their fepurate powers into more complete operation.
If experience lhould point outthe neceflity of uniting these pow
ers, it may be done ; but what is the consequence apprehended
from the exercise of this power ? Why, gentlemen are afraid that
the President may turn out a worthy man ! It is his life, fays the
gentleman from New-Hampftiire.
But the President cannot keep in an unworthy officer ; he may
be impeached by this House : This is an effectual check.
If the Constitution had niovidcdfor every contingency, instead
of being contained in a fheetof paper, it would have swelled to a
folio volume.
But the President may turn out so many, that the Senate will find
it difficult to procure officers.
It (hould be remembered, that if a misunderstanding should
arise between the President, and the head of a department, it is ne
celfary that he should be removed ; but every thing we hold dear
is to be profti ated by the power of the President!
He is however to be eletted every four yeais, and the jealousy
of this people is ever alive to catch at every defect, and we always
have the pov/er of impeachment in our hands ; but as it is a doubt
ful clause, as observed by the gentleman from Connecticut, we
ought not to meddle with it : This is a bad sentiment in its oper
ation i The great division of the Committee proves it is a doubt
ful question ! We then are the disinterested branch : The President
and Senate are the parties: It rests with us to decide : The Senate
will receive with pleasure our decision on this question : We art
fellow laborers : We are all trying to raise a noble ftrufture upon
the lame foundation. Ido not wifti we should leave this question.
I wish this Eill may go up with our full determination—the Senate
will receive it with candour. The Judiciary is the constitutional
]udge of our laws, and they will decide upon this, and I think
they will consider themselves obliged by our decision. It would
be a criminal pufillahiinity to retreat from this decision.
Mr. Sylvester : In yesterday's debate, Sir, t we had the fub
linie, the marvellous and the pathetic-^—monfters with heads, and
inonfters without heads. It has been said, that we have no right
to give a conftruftion of the constitution ; if to decide this questi
on is contrary to the constitution, and can be made to appear so,
I shall be against it; but if it is doubtful, it is our duty to give an
opinion : If there is nothing contrary to the c-onftitution, the
question is, how we shall decide ?
By virtue of the constitution, the executive power is vested in
the President—the constitution is explicit as to *ppoinments, and
by that the power of the President is eclipsed—We have a right to
create such officers by the conftitution—lf we have this right, we
eei tainly have a right to modify the laws for their removal; and
I have aright consequently to delegate that power; and where can
\_Publifhed on H eduefday and Saturday.]
it be deposited with greater security ? But it is said that the Senate
mull concur in the removal—this is matter of opinion as to the
expediency of the power residing in the President; it is to be con
sidered, that this is an high officer; it may benecefiary for an imme
diate discharge, but in order to an impeachment, the vote of this
House must be obtained; this would require time, and if officers
are not to be removed but my impeachment, they have an inhe
ritance in their office.
The present is the timefor us to decide this important question;
we are free and unbiafled; any errors may be rectified by the judges';
that the President should have the power to appoint, ?.*l not to
displace, would in my opinion, defeat his power to carry the con
stitution, so far as lays with him, into operation.
Mr. Stone : I consider, Sir, that the decision of this question
will give a leading feature to the administration of the government
The people, Sir, have adopted this constitution because they
thought that it would more eifeftually secure their liberties all
the amendments Which have been proposed, go to a more perfect
eftablilhment of their rights.
Our object should be to carry the constitution into execution
upon its true principles, without whether there is too
much power here, or too little there. It is not an indifferent
thing (as has been asserted) that because there is a certain quantum
of power to be cxercifed, how that power is appropriated. I
cannot think that the alTociated powers of the President and the
Senate, is so monstrous as fotne gentlemen have supposed; the af
fociAion constantly takes place : In cases of treaty, this aflociati
on is requisite—what injury is apprehended ? If there is that dan-i
ger predicted by gentlemen, we are in a hazardous situation?
The constitution has designated a balance, the President is to
appoint- the Senate to approve; it remains to carry this balance
throughout. This proposed delegation of power destroys the ba
lance, for the President may defeat by removals these joint ap
pointments.
As I refpeft the constitution, I would distribute the powers as
nearly aspoflibleas the constitution has done.
The separation of the powers maintained by some; is not a prin
ciple in the constitution—it is contended by writers on govern
ment, that the powers in general lhould be Separated, and pro
perly; but in the present cafe, there is an exception, and we
ought to follow that exception, step by step.
Go through the constitution, and you do not find, that the Pre
sident has a Angle power to appoint—The convention may have
done wrong; but they did not think it fafe to trust even the ap
pointment of inferior officers but by law—lt is said that the pow
er of removal is in the President, and we cannot take it from him
—this must be by implication; I never was fond of implications.
Here Mr. Stone dilated upon the absurdity and dang r of impli
cations, and then proceeded : In all the departments, there are
officers to be appointed, there is the army, the navy, the mint;
who is to have the power of making all these appointments ? It is
said, that the President is the executive, and may discharge all
these officers by himfe f, what follows? In absolute govei nments
there is no doubt about implications; they always suppose that
the monarch is unreftiained. The executive contended for must
be defined, and then there will be no difficulty about implications.
I think there are good reasons to be given why the Senate fliould
in appointments and removals—in some views the
watrhftrri*?" ~ j rc the President—the Senate are the
° f tlie constitution the defter.^ of the Preli-.
How far above the level of the people do tnfy i 'i *nH l fiw' ll i^ii- —
dent, who think it derogatory to h s dignity, to institute an en
quiry into the conduct of an officer below him. We seem to for
get the confidence we ought to have in the constitution—Do you
place more confidence in the President thai? in the heads of de
pal tments, and the Senate together?
We have expended our time, blood and treasure to very little
purpose, if we do not think that liberty and iafety constitute the
real dignity of human nature. I think there is more real dignity
r>f foul in a common peasant of America, than in a prime mmifter
of Europe. Air. Stone added ftveral other observations, and con
cluded with approbating the motion for fti iking out the clause.
Mr. Vininc : I join with every gentleman in the idea of tlie
very great importance of this fubjeft, as it refpeftsthe constitution
and the future operations of the government.
It has been fufficiently demonstrated by gentlemen, that the
ixecutive and legislative powers should be separated : But it has
been asked, where does the government exist, whose powers are
not blended ? To answer this question fully would lead us into
too extensive a field—but granting that in moll countries this divi
sion of power is but faintly defined, yet in Great-Britain, where
the fciencc has been carried to the greatest perfection, hitherto
known, and where the idea of checJts is a leading feature in the
system, there the powers are no farther blended than is ne
cefTary. *
I am pleased with the great concern which gentlemen discover
for liberty—upon the fame principle 1 .contend for the neceflity
of the clause. What has been theconfequence of encroachments
upon the executive in other countries ? Anarchy, confufion, and
the lofsof that liberty which is now said to be at stake. The
shortness of the time for which the President is eleftcd is a fuffi
cient preventative from abuse of power 5 but will you in order
to prevent him fr< m doing harm, deprive him of the power to do
%ood ? No instances can be adduced from history to prove the in
tringemcnts of the executive—but on the contrary the weakening
of the executive by taking away such powers as are requisite, has
constantly been followed by anarchy and despotism.
It has been said, that it is cruel, to take away an office without
an impeachment, a trial, &c. but the delays of impeachments
will render removals almost impracticable : Beides let us reflect
upon the train of disagreeable, and perhaps fatal consequences to
the government, which may arise from an adherence to this mode.
Suppose there should be parties in the Senate ; and they will ex
ist : How easy will it be to support an unworthy officer in his
place, through the agency of fucl\ a party in the Senate; where
decisions will be made by ballot, and where every man's vote
will be a secret : What cabals and undue influence will be the
consequence ! In what a situation will this place our chief magi
strate ? Will this be agreeable to the spirit of the constitution ? I
think not. Let us remember that thisgovernment, like He r c u l es,
rose brawling from the cradle—let us avail ourselves of the prac
tice, the wiidom and experience of former ages, and of other
countries, and bring itto maturity.
The Senators—the representatives of the sovereignties of the
States, are not chosen by men specially appointed for that pur
pose ; but the President is chosen by electors who are chosen im
mediately by the people for that express design—hence the Senate
is an improper body to interfere with the executive.
The powers of the Legislature ought to be commensurate to the
objects of legislation : It is conceded that this ast is a proper le
g'Hative ast; but except it can be carried into compleat opera
tion upon the principles of the couftitution, it is a nullity.]
[The Debate upon this fubjeft was extended to a greater length
than any which preceded it—some observations were atlded to
those which we have given, by several other gentlemen, when the
question was determined, as mentioned in fkelches of the proceed
ings of 19th inft. in No. 20. of our paper.]("Thursday, June 25, 17&7.
tUhate upon the Billfor ejlablipiingthe Treasury Department.
Mr. Pace moved that these words '* Who frail digejl and report
flans jor the improvement and management of the revenue, and for the
Jupport of public credit" should be (truck out of the fecund clauf
oi the bill : He added some observations to (hew the impro
priety of any man's being impowercd to digest plans of revenue
or any other for the House : it was true, he said, that some fuc
officer as this did originate such plans and digests in other coun
tries, but then it mtift be remembered, that in England particu
larly, the minifterwas always a member of that House, wher
money bills originated ; and that from thence he derived the righ
to interfere with, and bring forward his proportions upon the
fubjc&ot revenue; but he hoped this House would never perm:
the head of any department to carve out work for them, and in
troduce an undue influence in the representative body.
Mr. Benson observed, that except this clause is retained in
the bill, we (hall have no plans at all; the person who is to fill tin
office, whoever he may be, has no power by the clause, to carry
any thing intoeffett* he caw only propose. The concurrence of thr
House, the Senate and the President, are neceflary to give efficacy
to his plans: Should this clause be ftruckout, it efte&ually defeats
the design of the bill.
Mr. Goodhue : This motion, Sir, I think is carrying jcalou
fy to a very extraordinary length indeed ; that we (hould be afrau
to receive information from any person who is not a member of
this House: this is as much as to fay, that we will not receive any
light from without these doors upon the fubjett of finance : Ttu
Secretary of thetreafory, is the only person from whom we can
receive that information in all its extent, which this House will 1
peculiarly want. ,
Mr. Page replied, It is the duty of the membersof this Houfr.
to inform themselves upon this, and every other fubjeft; a com
mittee of finance may be appointed, who can report the necefla
ry plans, and then the business will originate where it ought.
I would ask, whether it it not evident, that an officer of this
description, will have an undue influence and bias upon the mindi
of the members, by having the power to introduce measures mt<
the House? Let the Secretary form his plans, and let them be in
troduced by a member; but I never will agree that an officei.
who is not a member, (hall be admitted into this House with his
proportions, to advocate, urge and enforce them upon us: I
will be found at last, that the House has but the name of le^iflation,
and the power of originating money bills will be transferred to
the Secretary, and like the parliaments of France, we (hall bi
called together to exercise only the power of regiftenng edi&s;
this may be called jealousy, but 1 conceive it is the true language
of the constitution. I wish for an energetic government; but 1
"wish for a permanent one; and I will never consent to measures
in the infancy of the government, which will weaken that effici
ency byalarming my conftitucnts, by giving up any constitu
tional powers.
Mr. Ames: The gentleman last speaking, appears to be ap
prehenfive ofan infrattion of the formsof the House: This
consideration ; but this is not the question immediately before us.
I conceive there are two principles which present themselves to
guide the committee : The one, that the powers of this officer be
ufeful and efficient; and the other, that they fliould be fafe. The
firft enquiry then is, Whether this power will tend to general
utility. If the Secretary is to be presumed to have the best
knowledge of the finances of the country ; and if this House is de
firousof a&ing upon the best information, itfeems to follow lo
gically, that he is to be consulted; and the best mode will be, to
derive the information from him personally. It will not be de
nied, that it will come within his province to have more accurate
ideas upon this fubjett, than others who have no particular con
cern in it.
From the nature of his employment, he mud be supposed to
have a full and compreheniive knowledge of the ftateof the funds
of the United States—the demands that will be made upon th;
and the best mode of condudting tnem: bt
acquire this Ul 7'
miance are ot iuch a nature, that they never can
havejuftice done them by public afiemMies : This is a misfortune,
which appears indefeafibly attached to their very formation. The
interests of finance are so intricate, so complicated, and so diHi
cult toarrange, and the opinions of members so various and oppo
site, that ofie man may gain more knowledge by one hour's re
search, than a popular aflembly by an inveftigarion for years.
The knowledge of a financier will be ve.y desirable: Our fi
nances, compared with those of all other countries, are in a cha
otic state : I wish to let in a little sunshine upon them; and I
cannot but flatter myf If, that such an office will be eftabliflied,
as will put them in such a situation, as that we shall not be asha
med of them.
With refpett to the danger apprehended, I cannot conceive
from whence it is to arise: It is laid, that his opinion will have
an undue influence; but can he make that to be true, which is
not true? Can he report untruths, which the House cannot di
to£l? Truth may come in opportunely; it may destroy a favorite
hypoihtfis-—this truth we may want: What means of public in
fluence can he poflefs over the member:,? I can conceive of none;
and it is impofliblc that in a public communication, he can have
to improper an influence, as he may derive from out door in
trigue, and private conversation : It is therefore more fafe to re
ceive his communications publicly, than to give them to indivi
dual members : It will establish a legislative controul over this
officer, to call upon him to bring the details of his duty upon the
floor of the House : It is a most effectual way of making him res
ponsible; and will operate as a powerful check; and this is the
reason, why the prime minister of Britain is obliged to appear
on the floor of the House of Commons. In adduion to this, the
people are hereby with the state of their money
concerns.
Mr. Amea concluded, by faying, that he hoped that gentlemen
would review their reaf'ons for ftrikingout the words, and not let
Tin unreasonable jealousy defeat the most salutary regulations.
Mr. Liver more : Mr. Chairman, I am for ftrikingout the
words in the clause : I suppose that no person has a right to make
propositions to the representative body, who is not a member of
this House : This would introduce a dangerous influence ; this
will make the members careless and indifferent about anattention
tothis neceflary and important part of their duty : The power to
originate money bills is a sacred deposit, that ought not to be alie
nated or violated : Giving the Secreta y this right will make him
the source from whence all systems of Finance and plans of Reve
nue will proceed. The Congrcfs, I remember, under the old
Confederation, had an Ordinance similar to this bill, and it was
then proper, as they had the power of removal ; but we shall not
have this power, accordingto what has passed, and therefore I give
my aflent to the motion for striking out those worcs.
Mr. Sf.dgwick : Sir, it does appear to mc f that if we intend to
realize the object of this bill, these words must not be struck out :
A consideration of the different plans of revenue in the several 1
States, renders it highly neceflTary to have an officer of this kind :
The methods that will be used to defeat the Revenue, renders it
neceflary that there fliould be an officer vcfted with fuflicicnt pow
ers to guard it : I cannot but think that the jealousy which anti
cipates an undue influence, is not well founded : The indepen
dence of this House will always be superior to an undue controul
of the Executive : If the plans which may be proposed, were al
ways of neceflity to be adopted, there would be some weight in
the obje&ion ; but when the plans are introduced into this House.
our various ideas will cause much time to be expended, before a
current will be farmed, in which the general opinion will set.
I do think it next to an impossibility, that a popular affemblv,
composed of so many different members from different States,
can be competent to form a good system of Revenue. It is a fuh- 1
which requires the closest application, the longest ftuay. and
the view of things, to render a person proper
ly adequate to it. We ftiatl always find amazing delay in wait
ing to collect the opinion of individuals, upon so various afubjeft.
I hope, therefore, the words will compose part of the bill.
Mr. Boudi not : Jealousy, Sir, is valuable under a proper di
-eftion; but there is danger of carrying it too far : Let us consider
whether to realize the object before us, the power of the Secretary
ought not to extend thus far : We are referred to individuals so
nformation—this is, I conceive, giving up the point. One of the
rand principles of the Conflitution is the responsibility of officers
low if secret intelligence is obtained from this officer, and intro
duced here, it will destroy that responsibility, Mid will be perni
ious and dangerous to the liberties of the United States : Wehav
eenthe incompetency of plans upon these principle in the indi
vidual States. This secret information opens the doors to th
;reateft impositions and abuses. It is therefore ivc Ifary that w
ould have anofficer, on whom we may officially call for this m
oTmatioir.
It has been faid,that the Committee of the whole is the propt
ourceof enquiry : This, Sir, I can by no means accede to. Th
Vlembers when they come together, are under the controul of I
il prejudices, and must be naturally ignorant of many things n'
effary to be known, in order to form a wife decision. Enormoi
xpence is continually accruing while this knowledge is acquir
i ig. It will require lome person to be continually employed •
this business ; his time, his attention, and talents, must all be di
voted : The fubjetl wili be a science, and his knowledge will b
tbfolutely necessary : I hope, Sir, the amendment will not tak
place.
Mr. Hartley was in favor of the motion for striking out thr
words : The do&rine of the gentleman lafl speaking, proved to-,
nuch : That one person (hould have more knowledge of the F -
nances than all others, goes to fupercede the neceflitv of legislation.
The clause in the bill appears to me tooftrong. lam willingthat
the House (hould draw information from this officer ; but that n
hould have a right to obtrude his sentiments here at pleasure, is i
neafure productive of a dangerous influence, and will be introdu
cing an officer intothe government, unknown to the Constitution.
Mr. Gerry observed, that if the do£lrinr which he had heard
was eftablilhed, [refering to the Secretary] it ought to be extend
ed to all the other officers, and that th<*y ought to be
by a ribbon, or some other badge, which none of the members o
r he House should have a right to wear. He said that the powei
ontended for by some gentlemen, neceftanly included the ideaoi
originating money bills : What is this officer to do ? Why, he is
to digest and report plans for the improvement of the Revenue :
\' >w f this does not comprize the power of originating mone)
Hills v I do not know what does : This will be inverting the Pre
udent with a moll alarming power. Gentlemen have dwelt mud
»n refponfibiltty ; but what is the relponfibility of this officer i
Does it mean that he should be r fponfible for a deficiency in th<
R venue ? Could he be responsible for the effetts of a meafur<
which he had only prop.ifrd ? Is he to be impeached for an error
n judgment ? This would be unprecedented : For what thei
'hould wegive him such an enormous p >wer ? By some doctrine
which have been advanced, it (hould seem as if »g«. ntleman woulc
ofe his reputation by opposing this omnipotent officer ; for thef
aine arguments being used, whieh are now brought forward, whei
i plan of Revenue (hall be brought in by the Secretary, ihe mem
bcrs will be told, that they are not competrnt to judge of finances
that they came together with local views, and without any genera
knowledge ; that the system proposed by the Secretary is the reful
of gre»t study and observation, and it is not proper to oppose it
This will preclude examination, and give an undue influence, anc
from being told that it is his duty officially to bring m bills,
will be told it is his duty officially to pass them : The do£lrin<
omes tothis point, That it is impossible there (hould be any res
ponfibility in a collective body, and is to be found only in an in
dividual : Authorise this officer to originate money bills, anc
what becomes of that mofteffential claufcof the Constitution whici
\xrfix th: C 1.. , :.u 1A -..1.1 U- -1-. %-t|.
:umftance, and would raise a clamor among the people.
Mr. Gerry added a few more observations, and concluded b)
a y in g> he hoped the power would not bevelled in any manwhat
:ver, to palm his plans upon the representative body.
Mr. Laurance : When this fubjeft was under confideratior
before, there was nor difficulty Sir, about giving the power; al!
he difficulty then rose from the impossibility of finding-a compe
ent chai after to exercise the power : It was then contended with
£reat zeal, that boards ought to have the preference : Since then,
t seems that a wonderful discovery has been made, and every
member of the House is found to posT fs this knowledge ; and wc
ire all competent to forming systems of finance and revenue. I
rejoice at this discovery! but it gentlemen are competent to form
systems ot revenue, they certainly will be capable of judging ol
thein ; they will be able to detest the fallacy of a sentiment, and
will pofTefs fufficient sagacity to discover the impolicy of mea
sures that may be proposed : From whence then is the dangerous
Influence of this officer toanfe, when all are competent to detett
ing his machinations? Gentlemen appear to confound terms. To
propose, is not to decide : He is not to decide for us: This in
formation is to be under the controul of the legislature: Will gi
ving a power to recommend, be giving a power to determine?
1 hey are certainly diftinfl, and have no connection, and yet,
gentlemen talk of delegating a power to originate money bills. I
can conceive of no danger: When we have made it the business
of a man to acquire this knowledge, it will be valuable. Is it
probable that we can ever derive the necessary information from
the members, who are not stationary, who are continually com
ing and goine? It has been a misfortune to the United States,
that an individual has not been entruftcd with this power 5 Many
of the States, feperately, have fuffered from the fame cause; and
'•t is owing tothis, that the finances of the country are now in
such a Hate of derangement. Take away this power, and all the
reft is mechanical; genius, abilities and judgment, are entirelv
outofthequeftion. 1
Every member of this House, has a right to propose a bill ; but
it cannot be said with propriety, that a bill is originated, till it
has been matured and made a fubjea of difcuflion, by the aflent
ot the House.
Mr, Gerry observed, that if there was a person in the United
States, competent tothis duty, he had not heard of him : the
House (said he) has however determined that they will have such
an officer: Sir, I would alh whether the information of this
Houte would not be superior to that of any individual whatever?
It such powers are mentioned now, as ar? proposed to be given
this officer, what may wc not expett after he is established ? I
would a(k , is a power to digest plans, meerly giving information?
this is a wonderful discovery indeed! No Sir, an influence will fol
low, and if we give any person a power to influence the determi
nations of this House, do we not so far depart from the consti
tution? He then adverted to what Mr. lanrance said refm-ftine
originating bills, which if he understood the gentleman (he
said) was faying that a bill could be originated, and not origina
ted, at the fame moment.
Mr. Vi n 1 ng observed, that this officer would be an auxiliary
to the executive, when he reportshis plans : they will be before
'he f lou ' c jor their rejeflion or approbation :h; could fee no dif
nculty in the business whatever.
Mr. Jackson was in favor of the motion, for striking out the
words: He said, the other parts of the bill are fufficiem : This
■fficcr cannot be a check upon the President, as the President
.as the power of removal. lam willing this officer should have
power to digest plans, but never to report them, unless called
Mr. Fitzsimons moved, that the word report, should be
| struck out, and the word prepare inserted.
Mr. Madison said, he could not conceive where the dancer
ay that some gentlemen apprehended: The words objedtcd to
are fimila. to thole used in an ordinance passed by Congrcfs, in I
1782", in a subsequent ordinance to establish a treasury board- tf lff
fame persons are annexed to that board, as belonging to the ofl
sice of finance, To that this power nowexifts in the treasury board"
so far as that has an existence. There is a possibility that the powl
ei may carry some influence, but let us compare this with the
danger that will accrue from the want of this power. In my
opinion, there is more danger of a bad administration, from the
want of this power, than can refiflt from all the influence which
the Secretary can crcate; more has resulted from the want of this
►fficer, than from all other causes. The gentleman (Mr. Gerry)
aflcs what is meant by refponftbility? I anlwer, we fhalleftabhih
a refponfibihty? There will be a refponfibily in point of reputa,
tion: a refponfibihty to the public opinion. Men of talents and
dill n&ion, pay a greatregard to public opinion and the
>f pufb)ic duties, for which their reputation is pledged: they
vill take care to perform well : This officer upon this principle
vill cake a great interest m all laws that may pass refpe&ing the
evenue, and the duties of his department.
The communications from the President will always be accom
panied with alufions to revenue, if the doctrine is true that t»
nake propositions s to originate : the President may be said to
iriginate money bills : It the principle of the gentlemen is ad
nittcd, the House will be abridged of the right.
Mr, Page said, as to the argument derived from the proceed
ings of the late Congress—it is well known, they had no power
aid th. States accordingly reje&ed their doings. The President
he observed, is a representative, and therefore may claim the
•ght of making proportions : With refpe&to the clause, a plan
to be well digested, must be vrell supported : This will bring this
ificer into the House, and thus an influence will be created
which will finally destroy both House and Senate too.
Mr. Tucker supposed, that the amendment of Mr. Fitzfrmons,
amount to the fame thing as the other ; as to prepare wolild
'oe nugatory, w thout report was made in consequence : He was
therefore against it. 1 would ask, Sir, (said he) whythis princi
ple, should not be inserted in the other two bills-for
xecutive departments ? Why ihould not the Secretary for foreign'
affairs be called upon by the branches to which he is particularly
attached, to digest plans for carrying the bufinefsof the depart
ment into execution? It would be attrontive to them, and foof
he war department : Why then- is this House to be considered as
not qualified rodo theirduty ? but must have plans digested and
' ported for us ! If we are not competent to our duty, why do we
lit here ? If this principle is to be adopted, we shall divest our
selves of all power and authority whatever : We shall eventually
place ourselves under a master : We fhsill become more and more
rarelefs and inattentive to the business of revenue : We (hall more
and more confide in the judgment of the officer, supposing his
s ystems are uniform, till we become intirely ignorant of the
state of our finances.
Mr. Sherman : It appears to me, that this clause is one of the
molt important in the bill: What is the duty her.* enjoined ? It is
pdevife methods for the belt arrangement of the revenue: This
requires great thought, reflection, and calculation. —Let us refer
to France: They had a financier who was displaced ; but their af
fairs got plunged into such difficulties, that they have been obli
ged to recal and restore him. This department is pointed outia
the constitution, and the President may require the advice of the
officer. And though it lays with the legislature to form laws for
theraifing of the revenue ; yet they will want the information,
that the fecretarv may lav it before them, and it will lay with the
House whether to adopt it or not. There will be no other obliga
tion than whatarifes from the reason and nature of things: The
more light and information there is, the better will the legislature
be enabled to do their duty: What is every body's bufinef, is
nobody's business. The gentleman (Mr. Gerry), fays there is no
person qualified : I agree with him : And there never will be,
except this office is eitablifhed. We have men,whom experience
will make equal to any in the world.
Mr. Madison said, lam of opinion Chat the duty should be
<i tori j enjoined : I do not fear his influence: lam more
afraid of our own ignorance , of our instability and mif-informa
tion. The advantage of a single man of abilities, will befuperior
to that of having an hundred such men to perform the fame duty.
Upon the principle of some gentlemen, we must shut our doors,
and not accept even the reports of committees ; it lays with the
House to receive or reject these plans : If the officer should be
disposed to obtrude such as are unimportant upon the House, the
Speaker may be directed to keep them out of fight, or other mc
:hods may be devised "J
Sat u rl. ay, June 27.
The engrofled bill to eftabliih a;i executive department, to be
denominated the Department of War, was read a third time, and
paflFed the House.
,Mr. Boudinot of the committee appointed to confer with a
committee of the Senate, on the fubjcfl of »mendments to the Im*
post and Tonnage Bills, which amendments had been disagreed
to by the House, reported, That the committees had held a con
ference, and had agreed to recommend an accommodation 00
some of the points in dispute,
Rcfpc&ing the Impost Bill, the following amendments were
then taken into consideration and agreed to.
lo reduce the duty on Rum, of Jamaica proof, from 15 to 10
cents, pr. gallon.
The discriminating clause, laying a less duty on Rum imported
from States or Kingdoms in treaty with the United States, to be
struck out; and the duty on all spirits, below Jamaica proof, re
duced from 12 to 8 cents.
To reduce the duty on Beer, Ale, Porter, or Cyder, imported
in casks, from 8 to 5 cents.
To reduce the duty on Beer, Ale, Porter, or Cyder, imported
m bottles, from 25 to 20 cents.
To reduce the duty on coal from 3 to 2 cents.
Refpetting the Tonnage Bill, the following amendments were
agreed to.
That rnftead of wholly excluding foreign ships from the coafl
ing trade, they might be employed in it under certain reft rift ions.
That all ships built within the United States, and afterwards the
property of foreigners, should not pay more than 30 cents pr. ton.
The House then took up the next amendmeut of the Senate to
strike out the difcrimiriating clause. This gave rife to some con
versation, when, on the question to strike out the clause, the house
divided: Ayes 25: Nays 26. Adjourned.
Monday, June 29.
The committee to whom was referred the bill to regulate t.ie
collection of the revenue, reported a new bill, which was
read, and referred to a committee of the whole, to be taken into
consideration to-morrow.
A message was received from the Senate, informing, that they
had acceded to the amendments last proposed by the House to
the bill, laying an impost on goods, and merchandise, im
ported into the United States: The Secretary then delivered in
the bill. [This bill has parted both Houfes.J e
Mr. Parker introduced a petition from William Finney, °-
Virginia, which was raad and laid on the table. _ ' f
Upon motion of Mr. Th atch e r, it was voted that 100 copies o
thecolle&ion bill be printed for the accommodation of the members.
Mr. Scott moved that the report of the committee upon tie
state of the unappropriated lands, should now be taken up: This
motion was seconded, but upon being put, passed in the
tive.
In committee of the whole—
On the bill for establishing the Treasury department.
Several alterations and amendments were made to the bil'j buw
the difcuftion was not finifhed this day. . ,
Mr. Burke gave notice, that he should propose an additiona
clause, to prohibit any of the officers in this department, from
being either dirc&ly, or indire&ly concerned in trade, or com*
m erce. Adjourned.Tuesday, Junf. 30, 1789.
,'ttee of the whole, on the bill lor establishing the
"department: several amendments were proposed to this
bill, and on'the day of every session of
THat r l,v before the House, copies of all accounts lcttled with
Congress, y the fta(e of the Treasury.
thC 0 Tm be given by the several officers, are to be dep#fitcd in
, h 'cotptroUe g r'roffic y e, and regiflered » the office of the fu
™.irt of the United States.
P 'Ttedifciiffionof this bill being finifhed by the committee,
M Burke introduced his additional clause, which provides
of the officers in this department, shall be concerned,
u "T.reftlv or indircftly, in trade or commerce, under loss
nWolaces, and other heavy penalties: This amendment oc
fnnfd some conversation, when Mr. Burke withdrew it tor
l ,frm The committee then rose, and the Chairman made
f CP nort The Speaker having resumed I the Chair, th, House
took up the bill as amended, and accepted the lame, with some
asked leave of absence till the beginning ot
M xt week, which was granted. The House then adjourned till
to-morrow.
STOCKHOLM, March 12.
Maior Morian, who had been sent in the ca
nacity of a courier into Finland, returned here
the 7th inft. We are afl'ured he has brought ad
vices that the army in that province has consent
ed to'the ast of union and surety resolved on by
the orders of the clergy, citizens and pealants,
and part of the nobility.
HAMBURGH, April 7,
Letters from Stockholm of the 27 of March in
form us, that the equellrian order still refufes to
consent' to the act of union and guarantee, but
has joined the other three orders in presenting
an address of thanks to the King, which was sent
to his Majelly by a deputation from the four
estates. — -
PARIS, April 16.
A deputation, it is said, is arrived from the
French American colonies, to demand a difcuflal
of their rights, by the Etats Generaux. This
deputation consists of thirty two-members, who
will be reduced to a more convenient number.
LONDON, AI'RIL 22.
The merchants of this city have received up
wards of jo,oool. from their correspondents in
New-York the week past.
A loan of eight millions of li vres has been
opened at Genoa, for the service of the King of
Sweden at an interest of four and a half per cent,
to be repaid in eight years, begining from the
year 1800.
By private letters from Smyrna we learn, that,
instigated by the Porte, the Tartars of the Crimea
have risen up in rebellion against their Ruffian
matters. They have cut in pieces several detach
ments of her Imperial Majesty's forces. Ihe
number and audacity of the rebels increase daily,
and there is every reason to believe, that the
Ruffians will be forced to abandon the Crimea.
At a meeting of the States General of France,
no person can be represented by proxy.
Every Nobleman of 2J years of age, and an
inhabitant of Paris, has a right to vote tor an
elector to that city.
The University of Paris fends four Members to
the States.
The election began on Monday last, and to
prevent any outrages or tumults, the guards a
bout the town are treble in number.
A gentleman who arrived on Monday from the
Continent fays, that when he left the Hague lalt
Tuesday, they were in hourly expectation of hear
ing that the Emperor was dead. As that is a
place of the firft political information, it may be
iuppofed that the Emperor is really in a very
critical situation.
So extensive are the revenues of some Polish
npblemen, that Count Potocki, Grand Maiter of
the Artillery, and Commander in Chief in the
Ukraine, will alone pay to Government, as his
(hare of the 10 per cent, on his lands, the an
nual subsidy of 30,000 florins.
There never was known in the history of France
such tumults as have arisen within the latl
few weeks, throughout almost all the Provin
ces. We may suppose, that from the frenzy
which has seized the people, that the scarcity of
grain mult have been nearly equal to a famine,
or that there has been gross negledt in the infe
rior offices of government.
All hopes of peace between their Imperial Ma
jesties and the Porte, are entirely dissipated ; 011
the contrary, every tiring announces a bloody
campaign, from the preparations that are mak
ing by each of the contending powers.
Ihe Turk is allembling his forces ; and the ci
ty of Conllantinople, as well as all its environs,
iwarm with troops, which are continually joining
'lie armies of the Grand Vizier, and of the Pacha
e Romelle ; nevertheless, our letters fay, that
Jmong that immense multitude, there are very
W cavalry. The Emperor of Germany, on the
other hand, is Very diligent. His army aflein
ed in the Bannat, to oppose that of the Grand
Vizier, will consist of 48 battalions, and of the
j"ne number of squadrons, besides Huflars.
Ie corps of Prince Holicnlohe, and Prince Saxe
~° ourg, are already 011 their march, the firl
,i°iii "11 anfilvania, the feconcl from Moldavia,
utending to penetrate into Wallachia, in ordei
0 aain concert with the Ruffians.
ERRATUM.
The following error, which escaped notice in a number of our pa
pers of this date, our readers will pieuje to coiretU iiz- in lajf col. lafl
J p<ige> 66 linesfromthetop, "/ .go"—infieadojwhich, read£ .90,000;
An ODE
For INDEPENDENCE, July 4th. 1789!
By DANIEL GEORCE.
'TIS done ! —the edict past, by Heav'n decreed.
And Hancock's name confirms the glorious deed.
On this auspicious morn
Was INDEPENDENCE born :
Propitious day!
Hail! the United States ! of blest America !
CHORUS.
Fly, ftvift-xuing'd Fame,
The news proclaim :
From Jhore to jhore,
Let cannons roar;
And joyful voices Jhout columbia'j name.
See haughty Britain, fending hosts of foes,
With vengeance arm'd, our freedom to oppose;
But WASHINGTON the Great,
Difpell'd impending fate,
And fpurn'd each plan :
Americans, combine to hail the god-like man !
chorus.
Fly,Jwift-U)ing'd Fame, &c.
Let Saratoga's crimson plains declare
The deed*) of Gat es, that 44 thunderbolt of war
His trophies grae'd the field :
He made whole armies yield—
A vet'ran band :
In vain did Burgoyne strive his valor to withstand.
chorus.
Flyjwift-wing'd Fame, Be.
Now York-Town's heights attratt our wond'ring eyes,
Where loud artill'ry rends the lofty Ikies :
There WASHINGTON commands,
With Gallia's chosen bands,
A war-like train;
Like Homer's conquering Gods, they thunder o'er the plaih.
CHORUS.
Fly,fwift-zving'd Fame, &c.
Pale terror marches on, with solemn stride ;
Cornwallis trembles, Britain's boalted pride :
He, and his armed hosts,
Surrender all their posts
To WASHINGTON,
The friend of Liberty—Columbia's tavounte son.
chu r us.
Fly, fwilt-wing'd Fame, &(.
Now from Mount-Vernon's peaceful (hades again
The Hero comes, with thousands in his train:
'Tis WASHINGTON the Great
Mult fill the chair of state,
Columbia cries ;
Each tongue the glorious name re-echoes to the Ikies*
CHORUS.
Fly,Jwtft-wingd Fame, &c.
Now shall the ufeful arts of Peace prevail,
And Commerce flourifh, fav'or'd by each gale ;
Dilcoid, forever ceaie!
Let Liberty, and Peace
And Justice reign ;
For WASHINGTON proteds the fcitntific train,
CHORUS.
Fly,fwijt-wing'd Fame, Be.
Portland, (Majfachufetts) June, 1789.
NEW-YORK, JULY i, 1789.
ExtraG of a letter from Providence, (Rhode-Island) dated June
16, 1789.
" To obviate the difficulties that have occurred to you, and which
indeed have been an dbjettion with the majority to the repealing the Un
der laws, the minority would readily fall, a with making an mflallment
acl, olfo to allow the paper to continue a tender jor all executions, and
would even be willing to enter fofar into a compromise, as to put it upon
the fame footing with gotdand fiver, that is to fay, a tender should not
cancel the debt, but the interefljliouldceafefrom the time such tender was
made ■ but they declare they will not repeal, or make any alteration in
the ire rent law, tillfuch time as all the State notes are carried into the
treasury and cancelled; andthey hold out to the people at large, the mo
ment they break in upon the prefentfyjlem, they will be ruined, and that
by their continuing Jirm, they will bring the others to terms : From this
you will ludge we have little or nothing to expedfrom our present rulers,
as at the r,ting oleachfej/ions they hold up the idea to the minority, that
/ornithine hall be done at the next to fat,sfy them in either repealing or
fuffJcndnig the tender, or calling a convention ; but when met in their
notlurnaiconvention, it is always determined to continue in their mi
quitous mcaTurcS: _ _ r ,
" IVe are informed, that the membeis of Congrefsare in genera!
bleared with our new -evenue atl, and look upon it as a favorable fymtom
of federal, fm ; but I can ajure you this is not the cafe, and it ,s
doiic with a view to amuse the people, and continue themselves in office a
little longc, with the hopes it will be in their power to oppress thejede
ralifts, and emharrafs the new government, which they a, e determined to
do as much a> pMle ; and unless Congress will ado I tfome dccijive mea
n,r,c there is little or no br officii of their calling a convention, as you
Lay observe by their conduflin the lajlfejions. which rofelajl Saturday,
without alter,,, e the Under or g,ving any encouragement for calling a
, onvention ; They are adjourned till next Oclober,wl,en thtre w,U be a new
" From the above fatement of Ms, you may judge, as we have no
thin, to hope from our present rulers, so we have notning to dread from
their refentmevt, were eto withdraw ourselves and claim the frotec-
Ringwood, (in England) dared Mareh 30,
1 7^9*
« This day fe'nnight, J was infpcEling a patent mill for making
blocks for /hipping ; and a four mill adjoining to ,t,both belonging to
the fame prop,,etors. The works are large- and, what isflngularmt
a cog is si red in any one of the wheels, which are all turned by rubbing
one againfl the other, alias, by friction. ,i„
•< We are apprehenfv e, that the rage of the bell,genent powers on the
cmtinentw.il at length draw Great Britain into a war: If so, it will
"e good police in America to observe a find neutrality, andfuceeed the
Dutch in milking the cow. .
The present poor profpeß as to a future harvefl, and the quantity
of wheat thathastenexported, has induced Jar lament to prepare a
nil to prevent exportation far a certain period, whichwill probably pass
into an ait, especially should the war be likely not on y to continue but
Tread. Many Europeans, in different places, will certainly be fed
'his year with American wheat and flour, if you have enough and to
hare. The aoerage price of wheat, befl, middling, and themojlinfer,.
.1, the Corn Exchange, London, was, on the 21ft ult. five fhtlltngs
W r.n.e-pence halfpenny fieri, ng, per bufhcl, and has been rifmg
•inct
One of the moil important topics of political
conversation, at the present hour, is the refrac A
tory oppolition of the State of Rhode liland against
joining the general government. In whatever
light the fubjedt is viewed, no reasonable man
can find any apology for such obltinacy and
verfenefs. Perhaps no part of the United States
is so illy fituaied to maintain afepaiate indepen
dence. The hour is approaching when Congress
will be under the neceility of some kind ot inter
ference ; and though we entertain the moil ex
alted ideas of the justice and moderation of that
illustrious body, we Itill believe they will not
quietly fufFer the Revenue to be defeated by the
iniquitous conduct of a State, which they can so
easily controul.
It is with pleasure we inform our readers, that
forfeveral days past the business of Congress has
progrefled in such a degree, that several very im
portant bills have arrived nearly to completion.
The public expectation, which has been so long
awake, will soon be gratified with the arrange
ments that are to put our government into ref
pe<slable operation. When the various and com
plicated objetfts are examined, which were neces
sary to be brought into view, the liberal temper
of our countrymen will readily acquiesce in the
delays that have happened ; and it must afford
great fatisfatflion to all patriotic men, that the
public impatience hath nothianifefted itfelf, con
sidering the ardor of hopes they entertained of
advantages from the origination of the executive
departments. We indulge the pleasing anticipa
tion, that the President may soon commence his
appointments, and that Our affairs will be put in
to a ftateof prosperity ahd dignity.
If men contemplated the advantage andliappi
nefs that resulted from industry, we lliould find
that the public regulations would prevent idle
ness by instituting modes of employment for
citizens of all ages, and descriptions. Theefta
blifhment of such manufactures as can employ
children,and infirm,aged people, will produce the
greatest utility. It would snatch many a vicious
youth from the paths of perdition, and make them
ufeful and virtuous. Perhaps no circumstance
marks so much the defective state of society in
this country as to behold such numbers of inha
bitants unemployed, merely for the want of suit
able objedls about which they can be engaged.
Humanity no less than patriotism calls for legi
slative attention, as Well as for the efforts of nio
nied men, to bring about a reformation in this
refpetft, and to invent and adopt methods tor
fiving employment and bread to the idle and in
igent of eveiy poflible denomination.
Frequent allusions are made to the period,
when the people of the United States lhall rea
lize the importance, dignity, and security of an
independent nation : The profpedl only of this
event has excited more refpeiftlul ideas of the
union, than all the partial, temporary regula
ting commercial fyfteins of the individual States
put together ; and if we have magnanimity as a
people, to carry into prompt execution, thole acts
and regulations, which will receive the fiat of
our National Legislature, we lhall evince that
we merit the station, to which, by the favor of
Heaven, we are exalted.
To inspire the people with confidehCe in the new
government, itfeemsneceffary that those who are
deftinedto adminifterit, should discover this con
fidence in thefirft instance : T his can be done in
no way so effectually, as by a firm and decisive a
vowal of principles congenial to the spirit of the
Constitution, and bringing those principles into
view by enacting laws, which lhall have a prompt,
independent, and energetic operation.
" If we may judge from their writings and their
conduct, the French seem determined to regain
a part, at least, of that liberty which their fore
fartlier's enjoyed in so much plenitude as to be
distinguished by the appellation of the Franks.
There is a time when old falhions, even in po
litics, become new again !"
The Proceflion ofthe King of Great Britain on
the 24th April, to St. Paul's Church, to return
thanks for his recovery, was the most fylendid
exhibition ever beheld in London.
The most agreeable part of the late Proceflion
in London, was five thousand fix hundred chil
dren, belonging to the Charity Schools. A
noble specimen of humanity and benevolence !
A Bill has pafled the House of Commons to al
low the importation of grain from the United
Stares into Canada.
ARRIVALS. NEW-YORK.
Saturday, Schooner Hercules, Comeran, Kingston, si days,
Sloop Two Friends, Hopkins, Edeuton, 7 days.
Sloop Peggy, Shaw, Oxford, Maryland, 5 days.
Sloop Nenus, Morgett, Norfolk, Vir. 5 days.
SuntUy, Brig Friendship, Paddock, Liverpool, 70 doys.
Brig Trinity, Moore, London, 63 days.
Monday, Ship Paragon, Nichols, Liverdool, 70 davs
Schooner Sally, Patterfon, Shelhurne, 14 days.
Tuesday, Schooner Charming Polly, Bowen, Aux Cayes.
Sloop Dolphin, Burnett, Baltimore, 7 days
Sloop N. Y. Packet, Baily, Philadelphia, 5 days.
Sloop Mary, —St. Augustine, 8 days.
Sloop General Green, Godfrey, Baltimore, 7 days.
Sloop Sally, Hall, Charleston, Bdiys.
Sloop Virginia Packet, Andrews, Rhodc-I(land.
Sloop Two Frierds, Chappie, Alexandria. 8 days.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
ContinuedJrom our laji.
The Romans never granted peace to tlieir ene
mies until tney had taken some of their territo
ry from them. Part of f'uch conquests were fold
to defray the expence of the war : another por
tion was distributed among the poor plebeians.
Some cantons were fanned out for the public :
rapacious patricians, solely intent upon enrich
ing themselves, took poileHion of some ; and tliefe
lands, unjultly usurped by the rich, Caflius was
for having diitributed anew in favor of the ple
beians.
The ariftocratical pride, avarice, and ambiti
on were all incensed, and the senators greatly
alarmed. The people discovered symptoms that
they begun to think rhemfelves of the lame species
with their rulers: and one patrician of consular
dignity dared to encourage them in fucli presump
tuous and aspiring thoughts.
Some device or other mull be invented to dupe
the people, and ruin their leader : Virginiis the
consul soon hit upon an expedient. Rabuleius
the tribune alked him in aflembly,what he thought
of this law ? He answered, he would willingly
confentthat the lands ihould be diitributed among
the Roman people, provided the Latines had no
Jhare ; divide etimpera. This dillin<ftion with
out the lealt appearance of equity, was addrefled
limply to the popular hatred between the Ro
mans and Latines, and the bait was greedily fvval
lowed. The people were highly pieafed with
the consul, and began to despise CaHius, and to
fufpedt him of ambition to be king. He conti
nued his friendly intentions towardsthe people,
and proposed in senate to reimburl'e, as it was but
juft„out of the public treasury, the money which
the poorer citizens had paid for the corn of which
Gelo, king of Syracuse, had made the common
wealth a present during the scarcity. But even
this was now represented by the senate, and fuf
pe&ed by the people, to be only soliciting popu
lar favour , and although the people felt every
hour the necelfity of a king to protetft them a
gainst the tyranny of the senate, yet they had
been gulled by patrician artifice into an oath a
gainlt kings, and although they felt the want of
liich a magistrate, they had not sense enough to
fee it. The Agrarian laws was opposed in senate
by Appius and Sempronius, and evaded by the
appointment of ten commiflioners to survey the
lands.
The next yearCaffius was cited before the peo
ple, and accused by the quaestors of having taken
lecret measures for opening a way to thefover
eignty ; of having provided arms, and received
money from the Latines and Hernici; and of hav
ing made a very great party among the most ro
bult of their youth, who were continually seen
in his train.
The people heard the quseftors, but gave no
attention to Caflius's answer and defence. No
consideration for his children, his relations, and
friends, who appeared in great numbers to sup
port him ; 110 remembrance of his great ac
tions, by which he had raised himfelf to the firft
digaities; nor three consulships and two triumphs,
which had rendered him very illultrious, could
delay his condemnation ; so unpardonable acrime
with the Romans was the slightest suspicion of as
piring at regal pawer ! so ignorant, so unjult, so
ungrateful, and so ltupid were that very body of
plebeians, who were continually fuffering the
cruel tyranny of patricians, and continually soli
citing protectors against it ! Without regarding
any moderation or proportion, the blind tools of
the hatred and vengence of their enemies, they
condemned Caffius to die, and the quxftors in
stantly carried him to the Tarpeian rock, which
fronted the forum, and threw him down, in the
p: e r enct of the whole people. His lioufe was
demolished, and his eltate fold, to purchase afta
tueto Ceres ; and the fatftion of the great grew
more powerful and liaughty,androfe in tlieircon
tempt for the plebeians, who loft courage in pro
portion, and soon reproached themselves with
injustice, as well as imprudence in the condemna
tion of the zealous defender of their interefls.
They found themselves cheated in all things.
The consuls neither executed the senate's
decree for distributing the lands, nor were the
ten commiflioners elected. They complained,
with great truth, that the senate did not act with
sincerity ; and accused the tribunes of the last
year of betraying their interefrs. The tribunes
of this year warmly demanded the execution of
the decree : to eludewhicha newwarwas invent
ed. The patricians pref'erved their ariftocrati
cal tyranny for many centuries, by keeping up
continually some quarrel with foreigners, and by
frequently creating dictators. The patricians, in
the afl'emblies by centuries, had an immense ad
vantage over the plebeians. The consuls were
here chof'en by the patricians, as Caflius and Man
lius were murdered bv aflemblies in centuries. In
2?o Cxfo Fabius, one of Caflius's accusers was
chosen consul, though very unpopular. In 271
the other of Caflius's accusers was chosen consul.
In tliefe contests the steadiness of the patricians
is as remarkable as the inconstancy ot the ple
beians ; the l'agacity of the former as obvious as
die stupidity of the latter ; and the cruelty of the
former as conspicuous as the ingratitude of the
latter. Prejudice, pallion, and luperftition, ap
pear to have altogether governed the plebeians,
without the least appearance of their being ra
tional creatures, or moral agents ; fucliwas their
total ignorance of arts and letteis, all the little
advantages of education which then existed be
ing monopolized by the patricians. The arii
tocracy appears in precisely the fame character,
in all these anecdotes, as we before saw it in Ve
nice, Poland, Bern and elfewere. The fame
indilpenfable necellity appears in all of them, in
order to preserve even the appearance of equity
and liberty, to give the patricians a master in the
firft executive magistrate, and another master in
a house of commons :—I fay, master ; for each of
the three branches must be, in its turn, both mas
ter and servant, governing and being governed
by turns.
To understand how the people were duped
upon these occasions, and particularly how Man
lius was condemned to death, we mull recoiled:
that the tribunes cited him before the people, not
in their curis, but centuries. The centuries
were formed on an artful idea, to make power
accompany wealth. The people were divided
into clafies, according to the proportion of their
fortunes : each clal's was divided into centuries ;
but the number of centuries in the different clafies
was so unequal, that thole of the firft, or richest
class, made a majority of the whole, and when the
centuries ofthis class were unanimous they decid
ed the question. By this institution the rich were
matters of the legislature.
State of the C/aJfes and Centuries.
Class. Roman Sterling. No of
Valuation. £. s. Centuries.
1 — ico,ooo — 322 18 — 98
2 — 75,000 — 242 3 — 21
3 — jo,ooo — 161 9 — 21
4 — 25,000 — 80 14 — 21
5 — 11,000 — 35 io — 31
6——— — — 1
Total 193 from
98 sub.
Majority of the firft class 3
So that by citing Manlius before the people by
centuries, the senate were sure of a vote for his
deftrudtion, and the people "had not sense to fee
it, or spirit to alter it.
Nedham thus far appears to reason fairly and
conclusively, when he adduces the examples of
Melius and Manlius, and he might have added
Calfius, to prove that the people are ever in dan
ger of losing their liberty, and indeed he might
have advanced that they never have any liberty,
while they are governed by one senate. But these
examples do v not prove what he alludes them to
prove, viz. that the people, in their supreme as
semblies, successively cliofen, are the belt keepers
of their liberty ; becaufefuch anaflembly is f'ub
jeci to every danger of a Handing hereditary se
nate ; and more, the firft vote divides it into two
parties, and the majority is omnipotent, and the
minority defencelels. He.should have adduced
thele examples to prove the necellity of separat
ing the executive, legislative, and judicial, and
of dividing the legislature into three branches,
making the executive one of them, and inde
pendent of the other jwo. This is the only fci
entific government; the only plan which takes in
to conficleration all the principles in nature, and
provides for all cases that occur. He is equally
right, and equally wrong, in the application of
his other examples. " The people," fays he,
" were sometimes in danger of a furprffe by a
" grandee cabinet or junto, as that upstart ty
" rannyof the decemviri, where ten men made
" a fhift to enslave the Senate as well as the peo
" pie." It is no wonder that Caflius, Melius,
and Manlius, were facrificed to the paflions of
the senate, for until the year of Rome 300, the
Romans had no certain laws ; so that the consuls
and senators ,ad:ing as judges, were absolute abiters
ofthefate of the citizens. Terentillus, a tribune
had propofecl an ordinance that laws should be
instituted, as rules of right, both in public and
private aftairs. The senate had eluded and poit
poned, by various artifices, the law of Terentillus
until this year, 300, when the tribunes solicited the
execution ofit with great spirit ; and the senate,
weary of contention, or apprelienfive of o-reater
danger,atlenghtli decreed, << That ambafladors
should be sent to Athens, and to the Greek cities
111 Italy, to colled; fucli laws as they should find
rnoft conformable to the constitution of the Ro
man commonwealth; and that at their return
the consuls should deliberate with the senate upon
the choice of legislators, of the power to be con
fided to them, and the time they were to continue
111 office." Sp. Pofthumius, Servius Sulpicius,
and A. Manlius, three persons of consular dig
nity, were appointed deputies. Three Rallies
were prepared by the public, of a magnificence
that might do honor to the Roman people.
To be continued.
SKETCH OF IHE POLJIILAL S'lA'lE ut AMEIiJt i
THE common observation, that many bands
make light work, but illy applies to the affairs
of" government ; and the advantages to be deriv
;d from Amplifying the great concerns of a nation
by placing them in separate departments, and at
the head of each, one tnan, competent to the du
ties of his station, not only obtrude thimfelv'es
011 the mind by a general reflection on the sub
jec r t, but are supported by the example and prac
tice of all other nations.—l Mill quote two balan
ces from the two firlt in Europe—France and
England. A well informed writer upontlie com
mercial interest of England, fays, " that fre
quent complaints were for a long while made as
to the bulk and form of the Britilh customs
while their apparent confufed Hate feeined to
basle all attempts for reform, and that it was to
the liberality, not less than the perseverance of
the Houie of Peers, that the public were at lait
indebted, in 1696, for the cltabliihment of the
Infpedtor General of the imports and exports
and for the cuftom-lioufe Ledger, which contains
the particulars and value of both ; and there
fore formed the molt ufeful record in regard to
trade, that any country poflefles." And the
great financier of France, Mr. Neckar, obfeives
011 the perplexed slate in which he found the
fifcal legislation of thatcountry, as follow : " This
llrange arrangement of our customs,' fays lie,
" has absolutely supported itfelf by its own de
fers, the multiplicity of particular cases, the
accumulation of rules, the ronfufion of piinci
ples, in short all that antique contexture wove in.
to so many knots has continually presented the
idea of an iminen fe enterprize where attempts
have been made to proceed to a reform 'jy stu
dying details :—But when I took a contraryine
tliod, and by makingjjiyfelf master of the whole
collectively by reflection ; and by taking pains
to discern the principal decisions, and the ele
ments as well as theinterefts of each, the whole
affair became fimplyfied." But I query whether
a subjeCt like this committed to several hands,
poflelling various opinions and drawing in differ
ent directions, would not have thereby become
still more entangled and confufed ?—.Aine
-1 •
nca has it in her power to correct many er
rors, which for want of example before them,
other nations have been led into. It is for her,
by making proper arrangements in the early part
of the adminiltration of the national govern
ment, to avoid much future confufion.—Let her
seek " mult a in parvo," rather than " farvum /'«
multis."
Among those arrangements which claim atten
tion may be well placed the Poft-Officcj which
may be made an important vehicle of informa
tion through this extensive country ; and produce
a valuable income to the public—however it may
now answer the former purpose, I think but lit
tle benefit arises in the latter view. In England
so early as 1 711 to 1714 the average nett produce
of the Poll-Office, was about £.90, and though
I will not pretend to calculate the probable a
mount which ours may be made to nett—there
remans no doubt, that the circulation resulting
from the extention of trade, the progress of a
griculture and manufactures,and the general con
cerns of the nation, will give an opportunity of
deriving aconfiderable revenue from thisfoiyce :
Towards which, the postage may be raised, and
all letters not official or on special public service
made fubjeCi to charge : And as every nieafure
which will tend to relieve the internal trade of
these States from embarrafment, to afliniilatethe
ideas, manners and customs of the inhabitants,
and render more easy their general intercourse
with each other, will be for national advantage—
the affixing of one equal value to our currency,
and a general standard for weight s and measures
through the union, is a subjeCt which government
inuft elteem of importance in producing this va
luable consequence.
AMERICANUS.
This Day is publijhsd, (Price 2/6)
And to be fold by Berry & Rocers, Hanover-Square, by
Robert Hodge, Corner of King and Queen-Street, and by
the Editor hereof;
TWENTY- SIX
LETTERS,
trroN INTERESTING SUBJECTS,
respecting the REVOLUTION of AMERICA.
II fit ten in Holland, in the Year Af,i)CC,Z.AAA.
By his Excellency JOHN ADAMS,
WHILE HE WAS SOLE MINISTER PLENITOT ENTI AR Y FROM
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA,
FOR NEGOCIATING A PEACE, AND A TREATY OF COMMERCE,
WITH GREAT-BRITAIN.
Never before publijhed.
(PT SUBSCRIPTIONS for the " COURIER DE BOSTON '<
ftrtu weekly paper, publifked at Bojlon in the Trench Language, arc re
ceived at No. 9, Maiden Lane. [ Theutility of apaperinthis almo
universal language need not be hinted to those, who wilh to ac
quire the French tongue.]
f£f* Ccmpletefettsfrom the beginning of the GAZETTE Ot
UNITED STAIES, ma\ at any time be obtained bx those toho chujt "
subscribe for that publication, at the Editors Office, No. 9, Maidcn-Lam.
Publifhcd by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maide*-
Lan r., near the Ofwego-Market, New-York. — fr.it- 1