(togztfU e/aMrhtssss&.
"[No. XXIX.]
THE TABLE T. No. XXIX.
.. Would it not be well to have certain triers or examiners appointed
, .1 .Ll, to in lied the genius oj every particular boy, and to allot him
Krf that is mo) fuifMc to his natural talents t"
TTis to beexpeflcd that the partiality of parents will induce
I them to suppose, their children can make improvements
• a „v art or profeflion whatever. To gratify these tond preju
j" the regulations at academics attune not the severity otic.u
the aDtitude of genius in the pupils for the particular ftu-
J° IZ ' which they are engaged. The inftruftors do not praftift
11' the iuppolition that each capacity may have some corref
mdin'frience in which it could excel; while many lads by be
■ ranzed in a large clals and employed upon talks unfuuable
f" B then° are called hopeless blockheads and conftan ly liable to
°' n ,foment and reproach—That special bias towards knowledge,
which with proper care, might be discovered, is apt to lie dor
mant and never have an opportunity to improve or apply ltfelf.
The objection against trying to introduce a reformation,is found
ed in a supposed impracticability. It is urged that no scrutiny
of talents can be made, with such exaftnefs, as to authorize the
attempt- The different capacities and inclinations of youth arc not
to be fu'clearly ascertained as to make it eligible to breakthrough
clUblilhcd rales of study. In answer to these objections, it may
be observed, that if upon experiment no method can be devised
for determining the special aptitude of each particular genius, the
•refi ut claflical regulations will of course be continued. I pro
ceed upon the principle that it is prafticablc to discover peculiar
propcnfities; and in those cases, where no such discovery can be
made, ihe principle is not to be applied. It follows thatan alter
ation cannot force itfclf where it is not requifit'c. The reformation
would be attempted only on those students who do not, at any
late, acquire material advantages, under the prcft nt modes of e
ducation. If they can derive any benefit from a different manner
of tuition, and derive none from the prelent regulations, there will
fcefomethinggained without hazardingthe loss of any thing.
Tholewhohave been in any degree conversant with universities
need not be told, how great a proportion of students pass away
their academical years in indoknee and disgust. To what can
this be owing ? Some pretend that the natural aversion or inca
pacity of youth, is the cause of their reluctance against study, and
thatit docs not proceed fiom injudicious treatment. Thispretence
is not wholly to be regarded. I have granted that some students
ami learn, merely for want of capacity; but I have averted that
others will not learn, because they are not properly managed.
The objefl of the reformation I propose is to discriminate charac
ters. Those who have not g-nius for anv thing can be distinguish
ed from those who have genius forJometi.ing; and those who have
id aptitude of mind to learn every thing can be delignated from
both the others. By suitable managemtnt it may be determined,
how far the defefl is to be ascribed io nature, and how tar to bad
institutions, that so finall a propoition of students gain any sub
stantial advantages from a public educatioo.
In convetfation with a hitnd upon this ful-jeft he did not coin
cide with my opinion, but rather supposed the difficulty proceed
ed from a want of proper inftru&ors. He imagined, that the
idlenefsand disgust obit red among students were occasioned
more by the austere, unaccommodating behaviour of the profef
fors and tutors, than by any improper alignment of studies. This
point (hall come next under consideration.
CHARALTER OF THE MODERN HIGHLANDERS.
[from Knox's works.]
THE Highlanders have in all riges been re
nowned for bravery and fidelity in the cause
which they espoused ; strongly attached to their
families, their chieftains and country, for whom
they braved all dangers, and endured every kind
of hardfliip. At present, that barbarous ferocity,
which was the offspring of feudal institutions, is
completely extinguished ; while their native val
our, and military character remain unimpaired.
They are intelligent, hospitable, religious, inof
fenfive in their manners, fubmiifive to superiors,
temperate, frugal, grateful, obliging, honest and
faithful. A man nlay travel in perfetft security
from one extremity of the Highlands to t he other,
without taking any precaution whatever in de
fence of his pel foil or property. Wherever he
goes, he meets with a civility, modesty and liof
pitality, which would do honor to the most polilh
ed nations ; wherever he reposes any confidence,
he discovers an attachment and disinterested readi
ness to oblige, which more opulent fubjeifts can
scarcely conceive an idea of. These qualities are
the universal theme of travellers of whatever
nation, who have lately visited the Highlands of
Scotland.
FRUGALITY.
[A continuation of the EXTRACTS begun in So. XXV.]
" IT is of importance to teach children fru
gality, and to guard them when they set out in life
against needless expence. The future circumftan
cesof children,efpecially of daughters, may not be
io affluent ss those of their parents : At any rate
moderation in all things is a virtuous habit.
The rules of moderation and frugality cannot
>e very precisely determined : If the objetft be to
P a y debts, one can scarcely be too minutely and
Merely frugal : " If a man would keep an
Men hand, (lays Lord Bacon ; ) his ordinary ex
penses fhonld be but half his income." There
af e many extraordinary expences.
rj are^ ts Ihould look forward to the expence of
"cation. VVeare fubjedlto diseases, and should
sve fomcthing in reserve for a time of need.—
t e ma y ' 1e involved in a law suit : Additional
imposed, and the price of provisions
f l • i hole who are indebted to us may be in
/ a 'ts, and by living frugally we can afford to
Patience with them. '
lormaybe unfortunate, andtheland
' * o lives within his income can feel for his
WEDNESDAY, July 22, 17^9.
tenants' misfortunes, and abate his demands in a
bad season.
Our friends may come to want, and it is a de
sirable thing to be able to affilf them. There are
works of benevolence and public utility, to some
of which every good man would wish to contri
bute. By providing for extraordinary expences
we arefeldom obliged to borrow, which is a hu
miliating and expensive course to pursue. One
may have no friends ; or those we esteem fuel,
may deceive us ; or those we have obliged ma}
prove ungrateful: These suppositions are unplea
l'ant, but not impofljble. We may meet with los
fes, and it is prudent to expecft them.
But left frugality lhould tend to avarice, let ii
be pra<ftifed rather with a view to keep, than from
a defii eto accumulate. Let us use with cheerful
nefs what we can fairly call our own, and culti
vate habits of generofity—for there is a time to
keep, and a time togive away. In a just discern
ment of these times,confifts the difference between
frugality and avarice."
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
ILLIBERAL POLITICAL CONDUCT OF BRI
TAIN TOWARDS AMERICA.
ALTHOUGH we cannot be insensible of the
prejudices of a part of the English nation againfl
the people of the United States of America ; yet
we oujjfht in all our conduct to shew such magna
nimity asfhall convince them, that we are neither
ignorant of their unreasonableness, or unmind
ful of our own duty. Let us teach that haughty
nation that we are capable ofbeing injured, with
out retaining resentment. Lei us charitably im
pute totlie policy of endeavoringto prevent their
inhabitants from migrating to America, the falfe
representations -which they are conltantly giving,
in their NewsPapers, of the slate of this country.
It is true, their representations have, in many in
stances, been made up of such extravagant and
incredible falfhoods, as have operated in the na
ture of an antidote againfl the poison, which they
were designed to have infufed into the minds of
the Europeans. Notwithftaiuling this lias not al
ways been the cafe ; yet we ought to remember
that truth is mighty, and will at last prevail.—
Let the real circumstances of the United Statep
of America, in the year 1780, be known to the
•world ; and then let the world determine, whether
it is for the Politicians and Critics of the Island of
Britain, sarcastically to deplore our miseries, im
pudently to contradiifl the taifts which ai e eltab
lifhedby inconteftible evidence, and malevolently
to ridicule our future profpe<fts !
The preceding observations are made partly
for the purpose of introducing the following
beautiful lines, which were written before the
end of the late war, by Dr.Dwight, in his Poem,
called the Conquejl of Canaan ; as well as partly
for the purpose of annexing a malevolent Note
written by the London Reviewers on these words,
" Here union'd choice."
EXTRACT.
" In that dread hour, beneath auspicious fltics,
To nobler bliss yon Western world (hall life :
Unlike all former realms, by war that (tood,
And saw the guilty throne ascend in blood.
* " Here union'p choicc Jhallform a rule divine;
Here countlefi hands in one cr fat system join,
Thtfv.a\ of law unbroke, unrivall'd grow,
And bid her bleffin gsev'ry land overflow.
" In fertile plains behold the tree ascend,
Vair leaves unfold, and spreading branches bend !
The fierce, invading dorm secure they brave,
And the strong influence oi the creeping wave;
In heav'nly gales with endless verdure rife,
Wave her broad fields, and fade in friendly fides.
There fafe from driving rains, and batt'ring hail,
And the keen fury of the winter gale,
Fufh fpringthe plants ; the flow'ry millions bloom,
All ether gladd'ning with a choice perfume ;
Their haft'ning pinions birds unnumber'd spread,
And dance, and wanton in the serial fliade.
" //it; Empire's last and brightest throne shall
And peace, and right, andfreedom greet thefkies : (rise,
7"o morn's far realms her ftnps commercing fail,
Or lift their canvas to the evening gale ;
In wisdom's walks her sons ambitious soar,
Tread starry fields, and untried scenes explore.
And hark what strange, what solemn breathing strain ' «
Swells wildjy murm'iing, o'er the far, far main !
Down time's long, lefs'ning vale the notes decay,
And, loft in distant ages, roll away."
Note of the London Reviewers.
* " Here union'd choice—Mr. Dwight is always versfan
fruine when he talks of America ; but much better political philosophers
than he seems to be, are afraid that the time when America's
union'd choice shall form a rule divine—
and her
countless bands in one great system join—
is at an immense dijlance.
«« Nor can zee pass over uncenfured the illiberal spirit which irnthes
through the paragraph immediately preceding. It is net enough, it ferns,
that America mvft he complimented as a second Paradise, the land of Mil
lennium ; but to frengthen the contrafl, the great eajtcrn Continent, mi
\PubliJhed on Wednifday and Saturday
its JJlands, muflbe doomed by our bard to the rnoji deplorable Jlate of fla
lery and misery. But all this will come to pais, we suppose, when
the prophecy of America's " union'd choice joining in
ONE SYSTEM, AND FORMING A RULE DIV I N E," (hall
' be fulfilled "
The Lopdon Reviewers are called upon, as they
wou'd support any pretensions to the cliaradter
of honest and candid men, to acknowledge, that,
at least, fomfc part of this prophecy has been ful
filled,in the choice of THE PRESIDENT of the
UNITED STATES by the PufFrages of more than
hreemillionsofpeople, without ONE dissent
ing voice.—Say, ye Critics, is not this union'd
choice!
Thus are men of letters, \vho ought indeed t<>
consider themselves as citizens of the world, warp
ed from the line of reiftitude by political or na
ional prejudices; and often, under the influence
of those prejudices, do these British Literati en
deavor to belittle the productions of America.
Yet, here, justice requires that the commendation
which they have given, in the last paragraph of
their review, of Mr. Dwight's Poem, Should be
cited.
" Mr. Dwight informs us in his mottp, arti hii Poem evinces, /W
eis a young man. As he is undoubtedly pojftfjedoj poetical powers muck
above mediocrity, it may juftlv be hoped, rnat experience and culti
vation will one dayrender him truly claflical. At present his work
is a promifmg blojfitn oj polite literature sprung up on the American Con
tinent ; and, as citizens of the world, we rejoice to fte it, and sincerely
hope Mr. Dwight will improve b\ ourjlriffurej. He ma\ be ajjured, that
had we not thought his mute capable of improvement, we would by no
means have been so particular, or paid her the attentions we have donej"
EXTRACT.
TO divide honest and well meaning citizens has not beeti
found so difficult a taflc in many countries as might have beenwifh
ed—no extraordinary genius is requisite—a low cunning and fame
(mail (hare of experience among men are too often found to be
fufficient, and the confeqaences,to a benevolent mind, appear truly
diftrefling.—Rancor, malice, hatred, envy, ill will, a disposition
to persecute and dfftroy, prove fatal to the peace, the comfort and
fatisfa&ion of social life—a system of fraud and fedu&iOn follow!
of course, and in this situation the dilTocial p.-.flinns haVe full plav.
Uninfluenced by the principles of virtue and true patriotism, the
Hate is in a perpetual ferm nt —the noisy and most boisterous have
the control of public meafu^ts —anarchy and confufion are conse
quent, and to them the most dcfpotic government may succeed.
These being the confequrn es of party rage and violence, it cer-i
tainly must be cortfidered as the duty of every one who dcfires the
prosperity of his country Co seize every opportunity to cultivate
and improve a fpiritof harmony and unanimity—toeradicate those
principles which inspire animofitus—breed rancor and malice,
create divisions, destroy the internal peace, weaken the strength
and fully the glory of our government. Every good citizen ftiould
exert his utmost abilities to h> al political divisions, and change the
narrow prejudices of a party spirit in to the pleadm;, diffufive, hap
py fpiritof true patriotism and universal benevolence.
Worcester Spectator. *
BIOGRAPHICAL,
ON the 17th of last January died at Grand
Cairo, in Egypt, Mr. JOHN LEDYARD, a na
tive of the State of Connecticut. He served un
der Capt. Cook, in the last voyage which that
able navigator performed, and was one of the
witnefles to his tragical fate on the iflandof Owy
hee ; an account of which, with the material
occurrences of the voyage, he published in Ame
rica, before that great and splendid relation of
it appeared in England, 111 which honorable men
tion is made of Mr. Ledyard. He had a most in
satiable defite to visit unknown countiies, and
offered his services to the Empress of R.uSfia,
through her Amballador at Paris, to explore the
continent of America, and to attempt to pass from
the north weft coast to the northern parts of the
United States, or the Atlantic. Being disap
pointed in these views, he undertook the journey,
with the afliftance of a few friends, and found
his way from Paris to Petersburg, and front thence
to Kaniptfchatka, were, by order of the Entprefs,
he was put, without any previous notice, into a
fledge drawn by dogs, and after returning to the
Southward, was sent out of her Majesty's domi
nions. Being thus again disappointed, he went
0 London, and proposed to the Royal African
Company to make a journey through Africa, and
to examine the unknown parts of that quarter of
the globe.—He accordingly arrived at Grand Cai
ro, under the auspices of this Company; and
thinking himfelf 011 the moment of pointing his
way towards Abylfinia, from whence he expected
to have continued his rout to the Cape of Good
1 Tope : he made all his arrangements for this long
journey, and engaged the proteifiion of a cara
van, which was to set out in a few days to
wards the southward. Here, however, he finish
ed his career, and is gone to " that undiscovered
country, from whose bourn notraveller returns."
Mr. Ledyard was strong and atftive, bold as a li
on, and gentle as he was bold. By his intrepi
dity, pcrfeverance and patience under hard
ships, he seemed calculated to execute such en
terprizes as he was always in pursuit of; and the
miscarriage of his project for exploring either
America or Africa mult be felt as a very general
and public loss.FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
Extract of Manuscript Imitations from the French.—The oti
ginal was intended to be sung by the sacred choir of Hebrews, at the
cmlujlnof the jirji Ast of ATHALIAH.
An ODE.
THE WHOLE CHOI R.
BEYOND this Ball's diurnal bound,
Beyond time's terminable round,
Our GOD exists the fame :
Wide from th' Empyrean to this sod,
The Univerfc is full of COD,
Extol, extol his name!
ONE VOICE.
The beauteous painting of the flow'rs*
1 he fruitful year, the flying hours,
» His boundless pow'r proclaim :
The dew, the rain, the friow, the hail,
Seed time and harvest still prevail—
Extol, extol his name !
ANOTHER VOICE.
Though his gifts to all extend,
' Pill th' immensity of space :
Mortals, in his presence bend !
Greater are his gifts of grace.
CHOI R.
Oh, Si nai's Mount ! preserve the fame,
Of that tremenduous day ;
When to thy top, convolv'd with flame,
The LORD in clouds and dapknefs came*
And fire prepar'd the way.
Why those trumpets in the air,
Thunder's voice and light'niwg's glare,
Torrent smoke and bick'ring fire i
Dreadful ligns of waken'd ire !
How great Nature*s pillars nod,
How her old foundations lhake,
Mountains melt and vallies quake,
At the wonder-working GOD !
ONE VOICE.
Mortals, struck with holy awe,
Fear he comes to end their race :
Israel's sons receive his law,
Greatest are his gifts of grace.
CHOI R.
Their bread from Heav'n, their water from a rofck ;
His hand, through deserts guiding, made them free,
Ltd them between the billows as a flock,
And whelm'd their following foes deep in the sea.
Beneath his standard rang'd} the legions sped,
While them gainst battling bands to glorious deeds he led.
One voice.
High o'er the Tabernacle's arch,
The Warrior GOD was seen to march ;
But left the fpl ndoursfrom above,
Too bright tor mortal eyes should prove ;
He deign'd his glory ineffable to shroud,
Circled by Night in fire by Day in cloud.
Should not his pow'r and grtace our bosoms move ?
Tor such unheard-of good he only claims our love !
CHOI R.
Should not pow'r and goodness move,
Israel's sons his law to love ?
Law divine and favor'd race !
Greatest are his gifts of grace !
SKETCH OF PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
In the HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES of the
UNITED STATES.
\Debate on the proportion to make a di/crirnination be
tween the pay of the Seriate and House of Rcpre
fentatives.
THURSDAY, JULY I 6, 1789.
MR. JACKSON opposed this discrimination
He observed—We have all alike abandoned our
paiticular pursuits in life, and are all equally en
gage-'. in the service of our country—and I can
fee 110 realon for making any difference : Can a
Senator eat more—or does he drink better than a
Representative I I presume not—their expences
are equal : There is but one reason that can be
alfigned tor this diltindtion, and that is, the Senate
may fit longer than the House; but as it must be
considered that they will receive pay according
ly, this reason falls to the ground. Thebulinefs
of both houf'es is the lame, and the pay oujjht to
be alike.
Mr. Lef. observed, that the Constitution had
made a difference, and that we ought to do it :
There is a degree of refinement in the mode of
electing Senators :—They are our belt men—and
I think that every encouragement ought to be
given to draw forth the firft abilities :—The dif
ference of two or three dollars is but a trifling
diftindlion to our venerable sages : At present
there may be young men in the Senate ; but the
time will come when our molt honorable, grey
headed fires, the experienced and wife men of our
land will fill thofc feats : Old men are with diffi
culty brought into public life—every inducement
should therefore be held out—the honor and dig
nity of our government is inseparably connected
with supporting, in aproper manner, this impor
tant branch of our legislature ; The Constitution
•warrants a diftindtion : It is founded on the best
expe;ieiice—l therefore give my hearty aflent to
the proposal for a discrimination.
Mr. White : Sir, I am opposed to a discrimi
nation : I cannot fee the difference in the Consti
tution which the gentlemen refers to : There
was an artificial and political diftindlion establish
ed between the Senators and the people in foine
of the ancient Commonwealths : Phis was the
cafe at Rome in particular : The Senators were
there coniidered as pofle fling a portion of divinity;
and the reft of the people were not fuffered to mix
with them.—ls it to be supposed that becaufeour
Senators have the fame name they are of afuper
ior order to their fellow men ! Whatever may
be the lemiment here, in their refpeclive States
there is no difference in the genera) estimation
between a Senator and a lieprelentative—and why
any discrimination iliould be made in their reipec
tive allowances 1 cannot conceive.
This diftimftion will operate against the inde
pendence of the members of this lioule—and may
in some future day enable the Senate to carry
points, by being able to prolong the feflions when
it may be greatly to the inconvenience of the
lioufe.
Mr. Madison was in favor of the discrimina
tion : He said it was evidently contemplated by
the Constitution to hold out iome distinCtion in
favour of the Senate, as an inducement for men
ot ltaid and fixed principles, whom habits of re
tirement might render averse from the active
scenes of public life, to devote the experience ot
years and the acquilitions of lludy to the service
of their country—and except fomerhing of this
kind is done, we may find it difficult to obtain pro
per characters for the Sfenate, as men of enter
prise and genius will naturally prefer a feat in
the house which will be considered as a morecon
fpicuous situation.
Mr. Vinimg was opposed to the motion for
discrimination : He observed that wealthy men
would in all probabilit/ be chosen Senators, and
that the reprelentatives would not in general be
of that class—the discrimination ought therefore
if any was made, to be in favor of the latter:
This (said he) is a fubje<ft on which we can feel,
but which it is difficult to discuss. lam against
the reducftion of the sum mentioned in the re
port, as I think that sum quite infufficient: Six
dollars Sir, is not equal to the expence per day
at which many gentlemen live when at home :
We surely do not intend to make the public ser
vice unpleasant, by rendering the situation of
gentlemen less eligible.—As to discrimination,
the constitution has fufficiently pointed out the
proper diftindion : Mr. Vining added many
more observations and concluded, by faying ]
have exprefled myfelf fully up >n this occasion :
1 am not afraid that my sentiments ffiould be
known to my constituents, because 1 think theirs
are agreeable to my own.
Mr. Seney : I am sorry Sir, that the question
of discrimination has been brought before the
House: What real'oii can be alligned for making
this diftindion ? Are the services of the Senate
greater than those of the Reprelentatives ? 1 think
not. —Gentlemen have brought forward the con
stitution upon this occasion ; but I conceive it is
opposed to the principle they mean to advocate.
The independence of the several branches is to
be ftritftly preserved, this will destroy that inde
pendence : If we eftabliih a discrimination in fa
vor of the Senate, will it not naturally tend to
create a sense of inferiority in the minds of the
Ileprefentatives ? and the time may come, when
they may find it for their interelt to be entirely
subservient to the views of the Senate: Sir, 1 feel
lo sensibly the impropriety and unconftitution
ality of this measure, that if 1 had the smallest
idea that it would comport with the sentiments
of a majority of the members of this House, I
ffiould call for the ayes and noes upon the ques
tion—but as I do notconteive tliatto be the cafe,
I ffiall for the present wave the proposition.
Mr. Sedgwick observed that whenever he
had a motion to make in the House, he always
endeavoured to fatisfy himfelf of the reafonable
nei's and propriety of the proposition it contain
ed : When he had determined is was proper, the
mode of decision that lhould be adopted, he con
sidered as not of very material conlequence—but
in determining the present question, he hoped
the ayes and noes would not be called. There
is a principle in human nature, which revolts
from the idea of inferiority—hence when a pro
position is made which has for its object the cfta
bliffimentof a luperiority, in whatever form you
please, that principle is alarmed, and excited to
opposition—but in difcufling such a question as
the present we ought to divest ourselves of every
partiality and prejudice which may bias our judo-,
ments to a decision that will not bear the test of
reason and experience.—The constitution has 1
conceive plainly pointed out the precedence of
the Senate: rnere are grades in lociety which
are neceflary to their very existence. i his is a
fell* evident —it is recognized by eve
ry civilized nation : It is recognized by the House
in the report before us : Why else have we made
a difference between the President andVice-Pi e
fident ? Is it not on account of his superior ftati
-011, and weight of dignity—and between the
Vice-President and the Senate ? This diftindtion
is also eftabliffied in the difference of the terms
for which the Senate and the House of Ilepre
fentatives is chosen : The tune for which the Se
nate is chosen, points out the propriety of a dif
ference in the pay they ought to receive : The
acfmimftration of the government will require
that they ffiould more completely abftraift them
selves from petfonal pursuits : Their attention
will be alrnolt wholly absorbed by an attention
to public duties : They fliouiu therefore have-'
adequaie and independent allowance : They \ "j!
generally be of an age that will preclude
tiom all idea of ever engaging in cheir feUr-l
profeiiions after once having engaged in th» lb?
vice of their country : Their age, their wisdom
and experience, all warrant this Uilcriinination
Mr. StDGwiCK added many more obfervatiom
to (hew the policy and constitutionality of the
discrimination, and concluded by faying, thr
lie thought the real dignity of the House lb %
from being diminilhed by adopting the propositi
on, that he conceived it Was cflentially counter
ed with it.
Mr. (ackson in reply to the enquiry of M r
Sedgwick,—Why have we made a difference
between the Prelident and Vice-Prelident? ob
served, That the President will be employed the
whole of his time : The Vice-President may re
tire to his farm whenever he pleases. Reference
is had to the wisdom of the Senate—but how is
this superior wisdom made to appear ? If a dif
tinc r tioli is to be made 011 this account, it follows
that a difference ihould be made between the ie
veral members of this House and alio between
those of the Senate.—We cannot be too cautious
how we eftabliih an undue pre-eminence and
give an intluence and importance to one branch
of the legillature over the other: All govern
ments tend to despotism asnaturally as rivers run
into the sea.—Despotism carries its points giadu
ally by flow and imperceptible steps: Despotic
power is never eflablifhed all at once : We ihall
ere we are aware get beyond the gulph, and then
wonder how we got there : The Cervices of the
Senate are not more arduous thanouis; then
proper business is legislation, and I never will
consent to any discrimination : Had I any idea
that the queltion would be determined in favor
of discrimination, I fliould be for calling the aytt
and noes, and ihould it be so determined, 1 (hall
chufe to enter my negative againlt it.
Mr. Page made a number of obfervations,which
as he spoke low were not diflintftly heard: thus
much we collected, that he was in favor of the
discrimination: He said, that in his opinion,
the Senate ought to have permanent salaries, that
they might be placed in an eligible and indepen
dent situation.
The proposition for a discrimination as menti
oned in our lall was however negatived.]
MONDAY, JULY 20, 1 7?ip.
A meflage was received from the Senate by
their Secretary, informing that they had con
curred with amendments in the bill, for esta
blishing the department of foreign affairs—alfo,
that they had palled a bill for the establish
ment of judicial courts in the United States, and
requeued the concurrence of the Hon. House in
the fame.
1 he Secretary then delivered in the bills and
Withdrew.
A meflage was received from The Presi
dent, by Mr. Lf ar, his Secretary, who infor
med the House, that he was directed by the Pre
sident of the United States, to return to the Hon.
House the bill, impoling a duty on tonnage, to
which the Prelident had affixed his signature.
I he engrofled bill to regulate light-houses,
&c. was read : A motion for its recommitment
was negatived.—The queflion, fnall this bill pass
was carried in the affirmative.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) moved that a committee
Ihould be appointed to bring in a bill, to autho
rise the several States to provide funds for the
support of Hospitals, for sick and dil'abled Tea
men, and for the regulation of their refpe&ive
harbours. This motion was adopted, and Meflrs.
Smith, (S. C.) Carroll, and Clym-R, ap
pointed the committee.
The report<jn the petition of Andrew Elli
cott, was again read, and recommitted.
The bill for establishing an executive depart
ment to be denominated the department of fo
reign affairs as amended by the Senate, was read
and the amendments agreed to.
1 he bill for eftabliftring judicial courts in the
United States, was read.
Voted that it be refered to the committee of
the whole House, to be taken into confkieration
on Monday next, and that 100 copies be prin
ted for the accommodation of the House.
In committee of the whole 011 the bill, for esta
blishing the government of the territory north
west of the Ohio.
Mr. Bo UDI not in the Chair.
The committee went through the discussion or
this bill, in which they made but one amendment,
and that was in the preamble : The committee
then rose—and the chairman reported the fame,
which was taken up in the House, and agreed to.
It was then voted that this bill be engrofled,
for a third reading to-morrow.
Mr.Si nnickson asked leave of absence for three
weeks—which was granted.
The house then adjourned.
TUESDAY JULY 21 •
The engrofled bill to provide for the govern
ment of the territory North Weft of the Ohio, " ,13
read, and passed to be enadled.The Speaker informed the House that the en
-11 d bill to provide for the titablifhment ot
V-ht houles, beacons, and buoys, was ready for
h infpeAiou of the committee, who Ihould ex
ine and present the fame to the President, foi
approbation and signature.
~: ]\j AD i so N moved that the lioule Ihould now
( 1 n itfelf into a committee of the whole, on the
(hte of the Union, to take into confideratioa the
fubie<ft of amendments to the Conllitution.
Mr Ames proposed that the committee of the
whole houl'eihould be discharged from their ob
lation to conlider the motion of Btli of J une on
the subject of amendments, and that the laid mo
ion and such other amendments as have been
proposed by the several States be refered to a spe
cial committee— this being seconded by several
members, occasioned a debate, which terminated
in favor of the motion of Mr. Ames, by a large
majority —and accordingly the following gentle
men were chosen by ballot, a Ipecial committee
for the aforefaid purpose, viz.—Meflrs Oilman,
Qbdihue, Sherman, Benfon, Boudinot, Glymer, Vin-
Gale, Madison, Burke, Baldwin.
it-was then voted that the committee be mltrucft
«d generally to take the fubjec r t of amendments
to the conllitution of the United States into con
fideration, and report.
Another motion was made, that the committee
be inftrucled to report as expeditiouily as pollible
—this was fuperceded by a motion for adjourn
ment—which accordingly took place.
CONGRESS ot- the UNITED STATES.
Ah ACT imposing dnties.cn Tonnage.
BE it enafled by the Senate and House of Re
irtfentatives of the United States in Congress a[fernbled,
That the following duties lhall be,and are hereby
impoled on all Ihips or vellels entered in the United
States, that is to fay, on all Ihips or vellels built
within thefaid States, and belonging wholly to a
citizen or citizens thereof; or not built within the
said States,but tin the twenty ninth day of May, One
thou s and seven hundred and eighty nine, belong
ing, and daring the time such Ihips or vellels lliall
continue to belong, wholly to acitizen or citizens
thereof, at the rate of fix cents per ton : On all
vellels hereafter built in the United States, be
longing wholly, or in part to fubjedls of foreign
powers, at the rate of thirty cents per ton ; on
all other Ihips or vellels at the rate of fifty cents
per ton.
Provided always, and be it enaCled, that no fliip
or veflel built within the aforefaid States, and be
longing to a citizen or citizens thereof, lhall,
whilst employed in the coasting trade, or in the
filheries, pay tonnage more than once in any year.
And be it further eriatted, That every lliip or
veflel, employed in the transportation of any of
the produce or manufactures of the United States,
coalhvife, within the said States, except such fliip
or vellel be built within the said States, and be
long to a citizen or citizens thereof, lhall on
each entry pay fifty cents per ton.
And bs it further enatted, That this Acft lliall
commence, and be in force, from and after the fif
teenth day of August next.
Fatderick Augustus Muhlenberg,
Speaker of the House of R ■jprcfentativcs.
John Adams. Vicc-Prejident oj the United States,
and President of the Seriate.
Approved, July twentieth, 1789,
G.WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
AMERICAN AFFAIRS.
WINCHESTER, JULY 8.
Extrafl of a letter from John Sevier, dated Senecca,
South-Carolina, June 4, 1 789.
" About three days ago, three men were kill
ed and Scalped, by the Creeks, at a place called
the Mulbery, on the frontiers of Georgia : It is
0 reported here, that a large number of Creeks
we on their way for Tugalu, in consequence of
which guards are potted there, in order to pro
tect the inhabitants. Yesterday I heard that 400
were seen on their march towards that place—
Ijod only knows what the event will be !"
Petersburg, July 9.
: 1 ■ rgmia Cloth—of excellent quality and very
caesp ma y b e p urc l ui f e j almolt every day, of
10 c °untry people who come to town for the
purpoie of making sale of it. It is infinitely fu
penoi to any thing of the kind imported, and
lea * s -emarkably well. This cloth is made of
cotton wove with great lafte, and by the Inge
fu'',y°' our Jair, has been brought to such per
son as to be pieferedto many of the Euro
pean manufactures. Several gentlemen have fur
ir.] lec r leiil^e l v es with full suits of this cloth,
We otllers are as anxious to obtain it,
be-iV^ C - ■ C ever y OI!C who profefles himfelf to
as jr '•V? 1 man v ' '" \ e distinguished by their cloth,
couiih- 1 .P r , 0I ) 10t i n g the manufacftures of our
trv ' {'. g ivhl g that encouragement to induf
-7' " hldl 11 ought ever to meet with.
"Th .f ro,n North-Carolina, July 3.
Ny f r - e , exert ions that have been made by ma
u s to the new government, in this State,
gives me reason to hope that we shall have a con
vention in the fall, that will extricate us from
oui lonesome and difag' eeable situation ; butltill
i have iny fears, unlcfs Congress Jhould take up
the iubject of amendments before, as many seem
detei mined ltill to rejedtit, until foine objections
a. e removed, particularly as one of youi g eateit
lupporters of the conltitution, has admitted that
theie are many.
PHILADELPHIA, JULY 20.
On Saturday last the Chief Jullice, accompa
nied by Judges Atlee, Rush, and Bryan, with the
Attorney-General and Prothonotary, waited up
,,n President of the State, in Council; and se
verally took the oath to support the Constitution
of the United States, which wasadminiftered to
-liem by his .Excellency.
An account ot the produce of different kinds
of grain planted in the beginning of September,
i 738, by Jacob Hiltzheimer, Esq.—Winter barley ;
one grain produced 65 heads, which contained
900 grains : —Cape wheat ; one grain produced
04 heads, which contained 2816 grains :—White
wheat; one grain produced 40 heads, which con
tained 2240 grains :—Yellow-bearded wheat; one
grain produced 58 heads, which contained 3016
grains : Speltz ; twograins together produced 104
heads, which contained 4368 grains.
AGRICULTURAL.
WILMINGTON, JULY 18.
It may be of service to our readers, to be in
formed of the following facfts relative to far
luing.
When I leafed ProfpertHill estate, I found two
thirds of the land sown with wheat, rye and bar
ley, l'othat there was only left forpaflure about
21 acres, wiji some meadow ground, and 14 acres
which was miserably poor, iandy and gravelly.
These 14 acres I planted with Indian corn, and
manured it in every hill, so far as the manure
would go (there being bit little on the farm)
from which I received a tolerable crop—l worked
the ground well, giving it 4 ploughings and 2
harrow ings, with the last I put my wheat in the
ground—the following season my wheat was only
knee High. I reaped it as near the ground as
poflible, and immediately ploughed in the stub
ble, and late in September 1 sowed it with rye,
which, at the following harvest, was generally
five feet high, and in some places much higher,
and from which I threshed about 10 bushels to
the acre. T his rye Hubble I ploughed in like
wise, and sowed the ground with wheat. Un
der this culture this ground has been managed
for fix fuccellive years, without any manure ex
cept about ten common cart loads ; and I now have
the pleasure of feeing as fine a crop of red bear
ded wheat on it as the neighbourhood can pro
duce ; I think I shall not reap less than 12 or 15
bulhels from the acre, b'rom this and many other
experiments I have made, I am well convinced of
the utility of a fucceflion of crops."
" 111 turning over an old magazine for Jan.
1760, page 7, I find the following observation,
which 1 think should be particularly attended to
by the gentlemen of this country. " I can not
help joining with the author of the new system
of agriculture, in his severe cenfureofour coun
try gentlemen.
" It is to me," fays he, " a surprising proof
of our gentlemen's inaptitude to this noble art
(agriculture) to fee so many hundred tlioufand
acres pestered, and corrupted by common dung,
the bowels of which very land is loaded with in
exhaustible quantities of real and wholesome phy
sic for its own diseases.
" Dung is not only prejudicial tft foine foils,
but inferior to the worst of any composts upon
any. One would wonder to fee how people put
themselves to extraordinary charges, and the in
conveniency of fending to great diflances for horse
dung, to manure tliofe very lands which ntver
fail of being verged or bottomed by a substance
of one kind or other, by far more proper for the
end they aim at; and therefore I lay it down as
a rule, almost without exception, that every foil,
of what nature, situation or condition soever,
abounds with natural and fufficient helps for its
own peculiar imperfections."
WILLIAM GEDDES.
SALEM, JULY 14.
In 1772, the county of EfTex contained 11,457
males above 16 years of age ; in 1784, only 11,023 :
So that in a period of 12 years, there was a de
crease in this county, of 434 rateable polls.
The county of Lincoln, in the fame period, en
creatd its rateable polls from 1354 to 5071.
NEW-YORK, JULY 22, 1789.
The fcttlemcnt of the Western territory isconfidered bymanv
persons as an event inauspicious to the interest ot those States situa
ted upon the Atlantic. Time was when the migration of the in
habitants from the sea ports, only 40 or 50 miles into the country,
was confide red as pregnant with fatal confcquencestofuch fea-porrs:
but now those interior lettlements are found neceflary to the exig
ence of the trade and manufa&urcs of our populous maritime towns.
—In proportion as we advance to empire our ideas will expand,
and the period is fact approaching when those extensive regions
will prove a boundless source of wealth to the Union—they will
extend the domeflic and internal trade of the Union in such man
ner as will convince us of our ability to support the Independence
of the United States, beyond any other cireumftancc to be,named.
Extral7 of a letter ftom Maffachuftts, dated July 13.
" With refpe& to :he mode of tranfmiting messages, bl!I*„
-c. from either house, I cannot fay that it plea'es /Tie : Indepen
dent of its being improper that the Secretary or Clerk should he
absent from their refpettive stations, they are not members, and
this being a neceifary step in the progress of a legiflaiive ast, it
.hould most certainly be perform d by a member or members.
" I observe by the papers that The President of the United
States has returned the Impoft-Btllto the Houfc after receiving his
pprobation, by his Sec rerAr y. It was expected that this part
of Legillation would have been marked with some cha
ra&eriftic feature: More particularly would there not be Meat
propiiety in the PRESIDENT'S going to the FEDERAL HALL,
a id there, in the presence of both Houses of the Legislature give
his aflent, publicly, to the bills ? It appears to me that this would
be proper—would impress upon the public m nd an idea of the
importance and solemnity of the laws—and hold up the several
branches of the Government to the view of the p?op!e, in a conspi
cuous and dignified pomt of light: It has been supposed that the
President's late indisposition prevented the adoption of this plan.
Someperfons may perhaps objett to this, for however astonishing
the it seems to be a point with many to prevent the people
from thinking too favorably or refpe&fillly of the government, or
the administration."
The fubje& of amendments is at length put in proper train—had
the Constitution been launched upon the waves of speculation and
indefinite theories, we might well have been alarmed for itsfafety
and future fate, among the (hallows and whirlpools which are
found in those seas.
It has been said that the Constitution of the United States is as
well established at the present mordent as if it had been in opera
tion a century : Ifthis is the cafe, and it wiil be difficult to prove
the contrary, it is very problematical whether attempts to ft rength
en its foundation will not tend rather to weaken than confirm it.
A correspondent observes that the confufion, and consequent
distress occasioned by the sudden stoppage to the circulation of
rhe copper coin, are fubjefts that call for the immediate attention
of authority: The poorer class of citizens are peculiarly affe&ed
by this circumstance, many of whom had their little all inverted
in this most uncertain of all human poffefllons, a flu&uating
medium: Manv of the retail {hops are shut : The cries are
suspended in the streets, and it is with difficulty the poor can
purchase bread of the bakers, or vegetables in the market : This
evil has been long forefeen, and yet the base trumpery calhd cop
pers (greatly inferior to Woods' infamous brass money)has been
pouring in upon us like a flood for many months past : Many of
the merchants and shop keepers, it \s said, have large films by
them of this coin, by which they will be great fufferers.
We are informed that on Saturday last, Mr. Harrough laid
the models of his new-invented machines before the President
of the United States, who, after a critical examination, approved
of them much;and was pleased to fay, that he hoped the public
would reward the inventor in a manner adequate to the great me
rits of his mechanical genius.
Nothing can tend more to the public welfare than such inven
tions as promote the interest of the farmer and merchant, which
the machines above mentioned will effe&ually do. The ma
chine for clearing docks will be of infinite service in cutting and
deepening canals, for draining marshes and water ponds, and even
to those farmers who live near rivers and creeks which contaiii
black mud, well known to be the best manure.
The reaping machine is certainly a very great invention, being
on a plan both simple and cheap, and may be used by a perfoh
who never saw reaping before. It may be so conftrufted as to cut
the straw or the heads only. The work will be clean, and fucft
grains as scatter out will all be received in a container. It may
either be worked by man or horse.
Thethrefhing machine is superior to every thing of the kind ever
yet invented.
The inventor's plan for working boats by a horse, against the
strongest stream, or raising great quantities of water to an> height,
must be allowed, by every mechanical genius, to be entirely new,
and of the greatest utility.
The inventor of the above machines is recommended by gentle
men ofthe greatest rcfpe&ability in Baltimore : wc have 110 rcafon
therefore to doubt his abilities.
Mr. Harbough is the person who turned an arch under a court
house (a veryfpacious brick edificein Baltimore) many years after
it was built, a similar instance to which we never have heard of
before.
A few days since died, at Elizabeth-Town, very much regret
ted, the LADY of His Excellency William Livingston,
Esq. Governor of the State of New-Jersey.
ERRATUM.
In the Efiimate ofSupplies, publjhedin our laJl,for "arrangement"
under thir a and fourth head, read ar rear aces.
ARRIVALS.
Saturday. Brig Induftiy, Clow, Gaudaloupe, 14 days*
Sloop Aurora, Cahoonc, Rhode Island, 3 days.
Schooncr Edward, Smith, Shelburne, 12 days.
Schooner Do>ald, Lillcy, Richmond, 5 days
Sunday. Schooner Catharine, Aitken, Shelburne, g days.
Sloop Triumvirate, Sheldon, Aux Cayes, 26 day*.
Tuejday. Sloop Adventure, Allen, Port au Prince, 18 days.
Sloop Lady Hayley, Ti.litighaft, Charleston* 9 days.
Sloop Minerva, Parker, Bay of Honduras,
Schooner Nancy, Clark. Richmond, 3 days.
Schooner Polly & Betsey, Butler, Baltimore 15 days.
PRICE CURRENT. NEW-YORK.
Jamaica - Wg
Antigua Rum, -
St. Croix, do. ' - * - aJ g^
Country, do. - - yio.
Molasses, ... 9 y 2 . a 2/0'
® sand y. - - - 5/6- « 5/9.
£ eneva ' r 5/3.
Do. in cases, - 2 gf,
Muscovado Sugarj - - a yif.
Loaf, do. - - _
Lump, do. - - ,/(i.
Pepper; - ... . 2 jg
Pimento, ... j/h. „ 2 f
jjfc
Cocoa, - - " 75/ * 80/
Coffee, - . w~g d x /i
Indigo, (Carolina) - . 4/ a 6/.
? lcc » " " - 23/! a 24 r.
Superfine Flour, - - -
Common do. - . 42/6. a 43 1
Rye do. - . . , a 277.
Indian Meal, - 2 gr
C^,' (Southern) " . "
Do. (Northern,) - 4/3! - 4/6.
Beef, firft quality, - . a
Second quality, - - 41/0.
Pork, firft quality, - - 81/6.
Second quality, - * 76/6.
H ams, . . y J_ a
Carolina Tobacco, - . qJi. a
Virginia , . . a S J.The RIGHT CONSTITUTION of a COMMON
WEALTH EXAMINED.
[Continued from our
IT was by flattery,bribery,artifice,and violence,
that Marius andApuleius prevailed with the peo
ple to continue tlieir power, in opposition to all
that the senate could do to prevent it. Wliat
Mould have been the consequence then if there
had been no senate ? Would not the majority of
the people in the tribes have continued their
power, againit all that could have been done by
the minority ? Would not ftillmore of the pub
lic lands, money, and grain, have been laviihed
npon proper inftruinents among the majority, and
the minority have been compelled to pay the ex
pence ? Our author affects to fay, that the " fe
" l-.ate and people continued the power of Pom*
" pey and Cxfar." But Ctefar himielf knew it
was the people, and notthe senate ; and if the
senate continued Pompey,it was because Ctefar and
the people laid them under the necessity of doing
it in their own defence. Would Csefar have had
lels " command in Gallia," if the people, or their
successive assemblies, had been poifeffed of all
power ? It is molt obvious, that a majority of
the people, in that cafe, would have continued
Caelar as long as he desired, and have given him
a-; much power as he wilhed : so that every Hep
of our author's progress demonllrates his fyftein
tobefalfe. It is idle to fay, that a continuation
of power increases influence, and spreads cor
ruption, unless you point out a way to prevent
such a continuation of power. To give all power
to the people's successive single representative as
semblies, is to make the continuance of power,
•with all its increasing influence and corruption,
certain and inevitable. You may as wifely preach
to the winds, as gravely exhort a triumphant
majority to lay down their power.
It is undoubtedly honorable in any man, who
has acquired a great influence, unbounded confi
dence, and unlimited power, to resign it volunta
rily ; and odious to take advantage of such an
opportunity to destroy a free government : but
it would be madness in a legislator to frame his
policy upon a supposition that such magnanimity
would often appear. It is hisbufinefs to contrive
his plan in such a manner, that such unlimited
influence, confidence, and power, lhall never be
obtained by any man. The laws alone can be
rruftedwith unlimited confidence :—Tliofe laws,
which alone can secure equity between all and
every one * ; which are the bond of that dignity
which we enjoy in the commonwealth ; the foun
dation of liberty, and the foundation of equity ;
the mind, the foul, the counsel, and judgment of
the city ; whose ministers are the magistrates,
whose interpreters the judges,whofe servants are
all men who mean to be fieef: —Those laws,
which are right reason, derived from the Divini
ty,commanding lionefty,and forbidding iniquity;
which are silent magiltrates, where the magis
trates are only speaking laws ; which,as they are
fotmded in eternal morals, are emanations of the
Divine mind:f.
If, the life of liberty, and the only remedy
" against felf-intereft, lies in lucceffion of powers
" and persons," the United States of America
have taken the molt effectual measures to secure
that life and that remedy, in establishing annual
elections of their governors, senators, and repre
sentatives. This will probably be allowed to be
as perfect aneftablifhmentof afucceflion of pow
ers and persons as human laws can make : but in
what manner annual elec'tions of governors and
senators will operate remains to be ascertained.
It should always be remembered, that this is not
the fii-ft experiment that was ever made in the
world of elections to great offices of state : how
they have hitherto operated in every great nation,
and what has been their end, is very well known.
Mankind have univerf.illy difcoveredthat chance
was preferable to a corrupt choice, and have trufl
ed providence rather than themfeives. Firlt ma
giltrates and Senators had better be made here
ditary at once, than that the people should be uni
versally debauched and bribed,go to loggerheads,
and fly to arms regularly every year. Thank
Heaven ! Americans underftancl calling conven
tions ; and if the time should come, as it is Very
poiiible it may, when hereditary descent shall be
come a less evil than annual fraud and violence,
iucli a convention may still prevent the firlt ma
gistrate from becoming absolute as well as here
ditary.— 15ut if this argument of our author is
considered as he intended it, as a proof that a
fucceflion of powers and persons in one aflembiy
is the most perfect commonwealth, it is totally
fallacious.
* Quod <equabile inter omncs atqueunum, omnibus efTc protest.
Cic. p. Cstcin.
t Hoc vinculum eft hujus dignitatis qua fruimtr in republica,
hoc fundamentum libertatis, his tons acquitatis. Mens, et animus,
et confiliirm, et fententia civitatis, pofita eft in legibus. Ut corpo
ra noftraiine mente, ficcivitas fine lege fuis partibus, ut nervis ac
sanguine et menfbris, uti non poteft. Legum minifti i,magiflratus :
legum interpreter }udices : legum denique idcirco omn u fervi
lumus, ut lib-eri effe polTimus. Cic. pro Clucnt. 146.
J Lex nihil aliucl ell nisi retta, ft a numine Deorumtra&a ratio,
imperans hoiiefta, prohibens contraria. Cic. ii. in Anton, 28.
Ilia Divirra mens fumma lex eft, DcLeg. ii. I{. legem
cife loquendem, legem magilfratuin mutum. Dc Leg iii. 2.
Though Ave allow benevolence ancl generous
affections to exilt in the human brealt, yet every
moral rlieorilt will allow the felfifli palfions in the
generality of men to be the strongest. There
are few who love the public better than them
selves, though all may have foine affection for the
public. We are not, indeed, commanded to love
our neighbour better than ourselves. Self-in
tereft, private avidity, ambition, and avarice,
will exilt in every state of society, and under every
form of government. A fuccellion of powers and
persons, by frequent elections,will not lellen tliefe
passions in any cafe, in a governor, senator, or re
presentative ; nor will the apprehension of an ap
proaching election restrain them from indulgence
if they have the power. The only remedy is to
take away the power, by controuling the felfifh
avidity of the governor, by the senate and house ;
of the senate, by the governor and house ; and
of the house, by the governor and senate. Of
all pollible forms of government, a sovereignty
in one aHembly, fuccelTively chosen by the people,
is perhaps thebeft calculated to facilitate the gra
tification of felf-love, and the pursuit of the pri
vate intereftof a few individuals ; a few eminent
conspicuous characters will be continued in their
feats in the sovereign aflembly, from one election
to another, whatever changes are made in the
feats around them ; by superior art, addrels, and
opulence, by more splendid birth, reputations,
and connections, they will be able to intrigue
with the people and their leaders out of doors,
until they worm out most of their oppofcrs, and
introduce their friends : to this end they will
bellow all offices, contracts, privileges in com
merce, and other emoluments, 011 the latter and
their connexions, and throw every vexation and
disappointment in the way of the former, until
they eftablilh such a fyftein of hopes and fears
throughout the state as shall enable them to carry
a majority in every frefh eledtion of the house.
The judges will be appointed by thein and their
party, and of consequence will be obsequious
enouglito their inclinations. The whole judicial
authority, as well as the executive, will be em
ployed, perverted, and prostituted to the purpo
ses of electioneering. No justice will be attain
able, nor will innocence or virtue be fafe, in the
judicial courts, but for the friends of the prevail
ing leaders : legal prosecutions will be instituted
and carried on against oppofers, to their vexation
and ruin ; and as they have the public purse at
command, as well as the executive and judicial
power, the public money will be expended in the
fame way. No favours will be attainable but by
those who will court the ruling demagogues in
the house, by voting for their friends and inftru
menfs ; and pensions and pecuniary rewards and
gratifications, as well as honors and offices of e
very kind, voted to friends and partisans. The
leading minds and most influential characters a
mong the clergy will be courted, and the views
of the youth in this department will be turned
upon those men, and the road to promotion and
employment in the church will be obftrudted a
gainst such as will not worship the general idol.
Capital characters among the physicians will not
be forgotten, and the means of acquiring reputa
tion and practice in the healing art will be to get
the state trumpeters on the fide of youth. The
bar too will be made so subservient, that a youiif*
gentleman will have no chance to obtain a cha
racter or clients, but by falling in with the views
of the judges and their creators. Even the
theatres, and adtors and actrefles, must become
politicians, and convert the public pleasures into
engines of popularity for the governing members
of the house. Theprefs, the great barrier and
bulwark of the rights of mankind, when it is pro
tected in its freedom by law, can now no longer
be free : if the authors, writers, and printers,
will not accept of the hire that will be offered
them, they must submit to the ruin that will be
denounced against them. The prefles, with
much secrecy and concealment, will be made the
vehicles of calumny against the minority, and of
panegyric and empirical applauses of the leaders
of the majority, and 110 remedy can possibly be
obtained. In one word, the whole fyltem of af
fairs, and every conceivable motive of hope.and
fear, will be employed to promote private
interests of a few, and their obsequious majority:
and there is no remedy but in arms. Accordingly
we find in all the Italian republics the minority
always were driven to arms in despair. " The
" attaining of particular ends requires length of
" time ; designs must lie in fermentation to train
" the opportunity to bring matters to perfection."
It is true ; but less time will be neceflkry in this
cafs, in general, than even in a simple heredita
ry monarchy or aristocracy.
(To be continued.)
ALBANY.
SKETCH OF' PROCEEDINGS OF THE LEGI
SLATURE OF NEW-YORK.
MONDAY, JUI. Y IJ.
The bill for the relief of Abraham Lott and
others, was read a third time ; on the question
for paflmg the bill, a division was called for.
For the affirmative— 45.
For the negative—lo.
On motion of Mr. Clarkfon, the hous e CAmeto
the following resolution : t0
Resolved, as the sense of the legislature tl
Fort George in the city of New-York and th*
lands adjoining to the fame, ought to be referred
and fetured for public uses : and tliar a ,
house ought to be erected on part of the <L°£
for the residence and accomodation of the PreO
dent of the United States ; and that the
«vill at their next meeting make the neceffar!
legislative provision in the premises. a. t i"
Governorof thisStateis hereby requeued tocaul*
the street commonly called the Broad-wav to''*
continued through the said foi t, and to direVt tV
materials of the said fort and battery to be col
leifled and l'ecured at the expence of the ihte
This resolution was agreed to without'a single
diflentient.—lt has fincebcen agreed to by the!
Nate —seventeen to three.
They also agreed to the amendments made
the bill tor the relief of Abraham Lott.
The house resolved itfelf into a committee on
the bill for appointing commiflioners to declare
the independence of Vermont.
Mr. Barker in the chair.
The bill was read in the words following-
An ad: appointing cominiffloners with power to
declare the consent of the legislature of the state
of New-York, that a certain territory within the
jurifditftion thereof, ftiould be formed or erected
into a new State.
Be it enatfted, &c. That lhall be
and hereby are appointed commiflioners, with full
power to them, or any of them in their dis
cretion, as they lhall judge the peace and interest
of the United States in general, and this state in
particular to require the fame, and on such terms
and conditions, and in such manner and form as
they lhall judge neceflary and proper, to declare
the consent ot the legislature of this State, that
such district or territory within the jurifdidtion
and in the porth-eaftern and northern part there
of, as the said commissioners lhall judge most con
venient. shall be formed and erected into anew
state. And every atft of any of the coinmif
fioners hereby appointed in the execution ol the
power aforefaid, lhall be as effectual to every pur
pose as if the fame had been an immediate aCtof
the legislature of this state.
A motion was then made by Mr. J. Smith toadd
the following proviso . —" Provided always and it
is hereby declared, that nothing in this ast con
tained is intended or lhall be construed to give
any person claiming lands in such diftridt so to be
erecftcd into an independent state, any right to
any compensation whatsoever from this state."
This motion was carried 34 to 24.
Tuesday, jur.Y 14.
The committee appointed to prepare the draught
of an address to the President of the United States,
made a report. The address reported by them
having been read and considered by paragraphs,
was unanimously agreed to.
The house resolved itfelf into a committee on
the Vermont bill;
Mr. Barker in the chair.
The committee proceeded to fill up the blanks;
it was resolved that there Ihould be five commif
lioners, three to be named by the aflembly and
two by the senate. The members were then call
ed on to nominate three commiflioners ; Judge
Yates had 54 votes—Mr. King 43 —Mr. Speaker 29,
Judge Hobart and the attorney general each 17.
The names of Robert Yates, Rufus King, and
Gulian Verplanck were then inserted.
IN SENATE, JtJI.Y 15-
On the question to concur in the appointment
of Genera] Schyier one of the senators to re
present this State inCongrefs, it was carriedin the
affirmative—i 3to 6.
HOUSE OF ASSEMBLY, JULY 16.
A meflage was received from the senate, informingthat they had
pafTcd the Vermont bill, and added the names of four gentlemen
as commiflioners in addition to those nominated by the aflertbly;
the names are Robert R. Livingfton, Richard Varick, Simeon
Dewitt, John Lanfing, jun.
This amendment having been taken into conf;deration, wasa
greed to.
The bill was then sent to the council of revision.
A resolution was then moved for to appoint Rufus King one
of the senators to represent this State in Congrcfs.
The question on Mr. King was then put aud carried unnn'.moufly.
A meflage was received from the council of revision that they
had agreed to the Vermont bill.
A resolution was then moved for, that the next meeting of the
legislature should be at the city of New-York; a motion wa*
made for Poughkeepfie ; on the question being put on Poughkeep
fie, it was negatived, 45 to 14. —New-York was then carried, 32
t°27.
Same day in the senate, on the question for concurring in the re
solution of the aflcmbly, appointing Rufus King a senator, it
was agreed to—ll to 8. .
The question on the resolution for holding the next feflion?
New-York was then taken into confidcrtion and agreed to t?Jo .
The two houses then adjourned to meet at the cityofNew-Yor'
on the second Monday in January next.
(Lpi ' Threee months have nozv elapsed find the °J
this publication: Our patrons uir/lpleaje to notice the terms of /'# rl f
tion : Those at a di/lance who can caufc payments to be made jn this Oj
zui/l greatly accommodate and oblige the editor.
Complete [efts from the beginnings oj the GAZETI E OE
UNITED STAFFS, may at am time he obtained bv those °. c "f .
[übf ribe for that publication, at the Editor's Officc, No. 9,
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maided
Lake, near the Oficcgo-Markct, New-York. —[3 dghf r - av J