PUBLISHED 'WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA,
[No. 82, of Vol. ll.] Wednesday, February 9, 1 791.
LONDON, December 3.
BY a letter from Bonavifta, dated the 22(1 of
July, 1 790, we arc informed that the MeUVs.
Braitliwaites, with their small ships company,
have had a very severe engagement with five pi
rate vedels, who came to oppose them in reco
vering the property loft in the Hartwell Ealt-
Indiaman.
The force of the pirates consisted of t wo schoon
ers, mounting ten guns each ; three sloops, mount
ing five guns each, and one cohorn : that of the
English, was the sloop Endeavor, of 37 tons bur
then, mounting 2 fix pounders, 2 two pounders,
and 1 cohorn, besides small arms, and the crew
consisted of nine leamen andMeflrs. Braithwaites.
After a close action of two glafles, the pirates
fbeered off different courses, and were pursued
tor two hours: but the Endeavor having been
long at sea, was very foul, and could not come
up with them.
The English veflel received sundry Ihot thro'
her fides and fails, and the tiller rope was Ihot
away ; but we are happy to add, that none of
the crew were either killed or wounded*
It has been frequently aflerted by political
writers, that the favorite Minister of William
111. was the firfl who planned out a scheme of
a National Funded Debt, in order to carry 011
the Continental wars in Flanders againlt Louis
XIV. in conjunction with the Auftriar.s ami
Dutch, to secure the allegiance of the people.
The example was followed immediately after by
several other States. From the late investigation,
however, of the French Aflembly, we find, that
their public debt commenced so early as the
reign of Francis I. which has been accumulating
ever since. That Prince involved his country in
very expensive wars, and was himfelf takan pri
soner at the famous battle of Pavia in Italy, and
Kept in thaTlituation for a considerable time, at
the Court of Charles V. Emperor of Germany ;
and King of Spain.
Sir John Sinclair calculates, that the money
annually paid by the people of Great-Britain for
public purpofes(including the poor rates) amounts
to the amazing sum of 23,725,5591. and the sup
plies expended since the Revolution have been
upwards of athoufand millions Jterling, in the
comparatively fbort period of one hundred years.
The British trade has arrived ac that acme of
extent, beyond which it appears impossible al
inoft to strain it. How long lucli an enviable
Hate of superiority can, in the nature of human
occurrences, exist, it may be rash to calculate ;
British manufactures, however, begin now to be
eftabli/hed in other countries, and it is found
that the taxes in Great-Britain amount to four
pence in the fhillingou labour. There are to be
added to this the jealousy of other powers in Eu
rope of their trade, the difinclinatioti to renew
treaties of commerce, and that concealed refent
nent which operates when compelled to do so—
all those circumstances (arguing from long ex
perience) seem like latent feeds of deftruiftion or
diminution of a commerce which is at present
the most flourilliing in the universe.
In the year 1739, Capt. Jenkins was comman
der of one of those veil'els which had been board
ed by the Spanish GuardaCoaftas. This (hip was
rummaged on pretence of searching for contra
band commodities ; but finding nothing that
might juftify their search, they insulted Jenkins
in the mod abulive language, they tore off one
ofiiisears, wounded him in several places, and
tortured him with the moil (hocking cruelties;
they ordered him to carry his ear to the King,
and to tell him that they would serve him in the
fame manner if they had the opportunity. The
hold fearnan was examined at the bar of the House
of Commons. When his ear was produced, he
•was interrogated by a Member, what he thought
when he was in the hands of those barbarians ?
to which he replied, that he recommended his
foul to God, and his cause to his country. This
noble reply, the fight of his ear, his detail of his
fufferings, and the indignities offered to the Sove
reign, threw the House into a flame ; this brave
man's wrongs filled the Members of the opposi
tion with indignation, and 011 the 10th of July,
1739. orders were given for making reprisals on
the Spaniards.
It is said.'that the National Afl'embly of France
is now preparing to examine the foundations of
the edifice, which it has been so long and so in
dustriously employed ineretfting. Fromthenum
ter of architects who have had the management
of the building, it is expected that the following
r.quifites will be wanting : Unity of defign,exa(ft
symmetry, elegance ornamenting strength, and
durability ol materials.
From the discordance of the builders, and the
confufion of tongues which have so frequently
been observed in the railing of this fabi ic, the
enemies of the architects have presumed to call
it Babtl.
The Grecian and Roman models they havede
fpifed ; the modern improvements they liavedif
regarded ; their stile is entirely novel, aud their
materials fbfc and crumbling uiorfels for the tooih
of time
His Holiness the Pope is the very reverse of
some of his predeceflors. Some of them made
nothing of trampling on crowns and on the heads
which wore them ; he, on the contrary, fufFers
crowned heads to finite hiin on one cheek, ex
pelling to be struck 011 the other.
Inltead of fulminating cnrfesagainfl rebellions
fubjeds, he kindly admonithes them ; invites
them, molt tenderly and affectionately, to return
to their duty, and, in the true fimplicjty of child
ifli innocence, weeps bitterly over their tranf
grefiions.
The golden age is again returning, Primitive
fiinphcity will triumph over pride, ambition and
bigotry ; and the Pope of Rome will, in a fliort
time, be elected and consecrated by his flock ;
between whom and himfelf the fame amiable re
lation will be eflablifhed, as exiits between a
fliepherd and his (heep
The church lands in France find a better sale
than could have been expeded, as from the com
parative low price at which they are disposed of,
there are plenty of bidders for them. The Dutch
have been conliderable purchasers.
Anecdote of Lord Chatham.
SOME this Nobleman's refiguation
of all his employments, a petition was sent from
the city to his Majelly, humbly requeuing an im
mediate difmilfion of several of his Ministers.—
The reply as might reafotiably be supposed, to so
audacious a solicitation, conlilted in a plain nega
tive.—The petitioners were told, that their de
mand was an imputation against the Royal abili
ties and penetration, as if he wanted sagacity to
perceive when he was faithfully and ably served
—In the enfuitig felfion of Parliament the Earl of
Chatham made a motion, that an humble address
be presented to his Majesty, requeuing that he
would be graciously pleased to discover to the
House the person under whose influence he had
returned such a reply to so loyal a par of his fub
jedts.—But, fays his Lordthip, " This motion of
mine will certainly l>e negatived. — 1 can antici
pate rejection in the aipects of minillers.—How
then fliall I come at the information 1 contend
for .' Was it you ?—or you I" (addressing himfelf
to thofs vioQ liable to fifpicion) " Will nobody re
ply > —Let me then fee if countenances will be
tray. —The face has been known to be the index
of crimiiialry."—He then directed his eye of fire
to every Miuifter in the aflembly, and fixing it
with all its collected force at lalt upon a great
Law Lord*, exclaimed, "Ah! metbinks J fie Fe
lix tremble !"—lt is said, that such was the irre
futable efFeifl of the united power of this slates
man's person, manner, and eloquence, that even
one of the greatest men that ever adorned Great-
Britain, was on this occalion daunted into a tem
porary fear, by this bold, though vague imputa
tion. *Lord Mansfield.
FROM THE (HARTIORD) AMERICAN MERCURY.
THE PROMPTER,
Every one to his notion
"Aj'J'OST certainly; and the Prompter to his
i.VjL notion of course. If a man is a little odd
in his -way, as we vulgarly phrase it, or what the
French call outre, his friends fay he is a notional
creature, or full of notions. And where is the man
or woman living, that is not full of notions ? Even
Congress have their notions. One of the moll
diltinguifhed fpouters in that honorable body will
insist upon it that the Speaker of the House of
Representatives is next in rank to the I resident.
This man is certainly a notional creature ; but every
one to his notion. Others have contended warmly
that their relidence ought to be fixed in the woods
about Connegocheque ; but it is belt to remove
thither by little and ititle. Is not this a notion ?
733
t(s 0p o
[Whole No. i 86.]
The legislature of Maflachufetts, some vearg
ago, took it into their heads to kill the profellion
of Law by a queer act; but the attempt failed
people would itill go to lawyers, and lawyers
would live, while people would employ them.
But the General Court was full of notions. Let
lawyers multiply till a famine of bufinels comes
upon them, and then they will die like Egyptian
frogs.
A neighbour of mine, who is a full grown man,
aflerts that the furfaceof the ocean is higher than
the land, and that by a constant miraculous re-
Itraint of the Almighty, tlie water is kept from
overflowing the earth. His opinion is founded
on those words of scripture, the bounds are ft.
This man is full of notions. Don't laugh at my
neighbour, gentle reader ; for I'll bet ten to one,
that in some other particular, thou art just as no
tional thyfelf.
Love is'the mofl notional passion ; not except
ing ambition and fuperltition. I once knew a
woman, who had a very amiable daughter, de
clare it was monfirous indelicate for a young lady
to love a man. She might love an elegant house,
a carriage and even money ; but to love a man s
person was ihocking. But every one to her notion.
When I was a young man, I knew an attorney
who was attached to what is called family; that
is, whose family, by good luck, had flripped off*
their woollen ftiirts and checked aprons, just one
generation before, and kept them off, till their
companions who had afl'ociatecl with them in their
woollen dress, were mostly dead. The attorney
had not wore linen fliirts lo long by ten years as
this family ; arid yet had the afl'urance to fall in
love with one of the daughrers. The man how
ever did not meet with cold looks from the daugh
ter—but the parents walked a tip-toe at the af
front offered their family. The daughter was no
tional as well as the parents —they intended to
have their notion, hue she had her's—and a very
good notion it was, for a more liappy couple does
not exist.
But the queerest of all notions is, that parents
will not permit a daughter, no not even a son, to
love for thetnfelves. 1 know a widow with a fa-
mily of likely daughters, who insists upon it that
her daughters do not know how to love for them
felves—lhe therefore means to love for them.
She is a queer woman, and a notional creature ;
but every one to his notion.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
FRIDAY, Jan. 21.
THE bill laying duties on distilled fpirits,un
der consideration.
Mr. Jackson proposed an amendment, by add*
ing a clause to prevent Infpedtors, or any officers
under them, from interfering, either directly,
or indire<ftly, in elections, further than giving
theif own votes, on penalty of forfeiting their
offices.—This being seconded—
Mr. Sherman said he fltould propose an addition
to the amendment, and that was to extend the
prohibition to every other person whatever : He
supposed that to praiftife the arts of electioneer
ing would be as criminal in persons in general, as
in the officers of the revenue ; but if any provi
sion is neceflary in the cafe, he thought it might
be made in some other bill.
Mr. Livermore approved the motion : These of
ficers said he, will hold their places under the go
vernment—and from the duties afligsed them,
will acquire such a knowledge of persons and
characters, as will give them great advantages,
and enable them to influence in elections to a
great degree: He thought the proposition im
portant, and merited the attention of the house.
Mr. Vining observed, that the motion went to
illsfranchife a great number of citizens of the
rights of fufFrage : It appeared to him also, to be
unconftitutiorial, as it will deprive them of speak
ing and writing their minds—a right, of which
no law can divclt them : He offered some obser
vations on the eligibility of the duty now com-'•ternplated,in prefereneeto direA taxes—and then
urged the ill policy of rendering the law odious,
by fixing a stigma on the officers appointed to
execute it.
Mr. Jackson replied to the oMervations against
his motion: He said the experience of Great-
Britain shewed the propriety of the prohibition.
He read a fecftion from a law palled in the reign
of William and Mary, on this fnbjedl. A law
was found neceflary in that country to prevent
the interference of the excise officers in elections,
though the excise law then in existence, was on
ly for 10 years, and that now before us is a per
petual law—for it is to exifl, till the whole of
the State debts are rubbed off. He denied that
it was a disfranchifeinent of the citizens ; they
will have the fame right to vote at elections as
other citizens; itonly goes to defining an offence,
•which may be of pernicious consequence ; did I
consider it in that light, said he, as depriving the
citizens of the rights of fuffrage, I would be the
last in this house to vote for it. He adverted
particularly to the dangerous influence that some
future Prefulents would acquire, by virtue of the
powet which he willpoflefs of removing these of
ficers. He read some claules from the British
excise law, to (hew its resemblance to the law
now under consideration ; he added some stric
tures on the bill, and regretted that it had not
been recommitted ; but to render it less odious
and mischievous he strongly urged the necessity
of the feifiion he had proposed.
Mr. Benfon said tlitfre appeared to him to be
an absurdity to fay a man shall forfeit an office,
which he holds during pleasure.
Mr. Gerry objected to the motion, because he
thought it did not go far enough—it ought to
extend to all other revenue officers. He gave a
fliort account of thenature of civil government ;
no form laid he is stationary, they are always
verging either to democracy and anarchy, or to
aristocracy and despotism ; from hence he drew
an influence favorable to a provision which fliould
tend to abate and leflen the influence of the ex
ecutive power in certain cases.
Mr. Ames obje<fled to the motion, he said the
circumstances of this country and Great-Britain,
were not similar : That country is without a
constitution—the United States are blefled with
one, which defines the rights of electors and the
ele<fted—rights of which they cannot be deprived ;
the law which the gentleman referred to, was
not palled till the abuses it was intended to re
medy had arisen to an enormous height ; if ever
there fliouldbe a necessity for a similar law, which
he by no means expedied, it will then be time
enough to make the regulation—but this clause
will muzzle the mouths of freemen, and take
n*vojr tii» use of their reason.
Mr. Blood worth replied to Mr. Ames; he observed
that corruptions had taker, place ; ele&ions have
been influenced, and human nature being the
fame, the fame evils are to be expected ; he
thought it would be bell: to prevent the evil if
poflible by ena<fting a law ill season, and not wait
till the mifchief is done.
Mr. Seney was in favor of the clause, he tho't
it would be afalutaryprovifion,and no infringe
ment of the rights of the people, as it would be
optional to accept the officers or not, with this
reltri<flion.
Mr. Stone was in favor of the motion—he ob
served that it was a painful consideration that a
number of citizens ihould be disfranchized, and
deprived of their reason and speech, but this is
a dilemma said he, to which we are reduced by
means of this excise law; we must either deprive
the excise officers of this privilege of interfering
or give up the freedom of eledlions.
Mr. Vining controverted the oft repeated ob
servation, that there was an analogy between
the two countries, Great-Britain and America.
He urged an acceleration of the bill—delays he
thought did not produce conviction, they only
serve to enflame ; he hoped the clause would
not be agreed to, nor the bill recommitted.
Mr. Lawrance said he was sorry that there
were so many impediments thrown in the way of
this bill—he could wilhthat the clause might be
deferred —and made the fubjecft of a feparatedif
cuffion—he obje<sted to it as not extensive enough
«—it ought to include all the officers of the go
•vernment ; at present he Ihould wave any fur
ther remarks, but hoped the motion would not
be agreed to at this time—but wished that the bill
might be finifhed.
Mr. Sedgwick opposed the motion, he said the
natural tendency would be to render the law
odious—to deprive the government of thefervi
ces of the bell inen in our country :—let me a(k
gentlemen said he, if they, or any of their hon.
connexions,, would accept of an appointment un
der this law, with such an exceptionable c;laufe
in it? He observed on the total difference in the
eircumftances of this country, from those of Great-
Britain ; and alked, fliall we transplant the cor
rupt maxims of that country to this i I hope we
fiiall not.
Mr. Gerry replied to the several objections
which had been offered against the motion : It
will be too late, said he, when the evil takes place,
to apply the remedy : The President will then
have it in his power to influence the elections in
such manner as to procure a legislature that would
not consent to a law for applying a remedy.
Mr. Ame* reprobated the motion in very point
ed terms, as impolitic in retpedi to the law—as
repugnant to the Constitution, and as degrading
to human nature ; besides, he observed, that it
was nugatory in itfelf, because it goes to deprive
the citizens of an unalienable right, which you
cannot take from them, nor can they dived them
selves of.
Mr. Jackson made a short reply to Mr. Ames :
He observed, that he had always supposed that
the Englilh nation poflefled a Constitution—and
that the violation of the freedom of elections
was the greatelt infringement on that conftitu-
tion
Mr. Sherman observed that this motion went
to create a positive offence ; he said he could not
conceive any reason why this offence (hould be
chai gable on one description of officers only—
he thought it ought to go through, and include
every class—He replied to the several objections
arising from the influence of the President—and
observed that fixing such a lligma would oblige
the Prelident to oppoint mean and ordinary cha
racters, characters fit to make tools of—for per
sons of credit, and refpedlability will not accept
of appointments under such a difqualification.—
Thequeftion was determined in the negative—
the ayes and noes being as follow :
Ayes.
Messrs. AJhe, Baldwin, Bloodworth, Brown,
Burke, Floyd, Gerry, Grout, Hathorne, Heifter,
Jackfon,Livermore, Matthews, Moore, Parker, Ren
fdlaer, Seney, Sylvester, Stone-, Tucker, White.—2l.
Meffrt. Amei, Benfon. Boudinet, Bourne, Cad
wallader, Carroll, Clymer, Fitzjimons, Fojler, Gale,
Gilman, Goodhue, Griffin, Giles, Hartley, Hunting
ton, Laiurance, Lee, Leonard, Madison, Muhlenberg,
Schureman, Scott, Sedgwick, Sevier, Sherman, Sin
nick/on, Smith (M.) Smith (S. C.J Steele, Sturges,
Thatcher, Trumbull, Fining, Wadfworth, William/on
Wynkuop. 37.
SATURDAY, Feb. J
The petition of James Norris,late lieutenant
in Col. Prodlor's regiment, was read and refer
red to the Secretary at War.
Mr. Lawrence presented thememorial and pe
tition of Abraham Skinner late commiflary of
prisoners, praying repayment of monies advanc
ed, and compensation for services, which was
read and referred to the Secretary of the Trea
sury.
Also the petition of Isaac Vincent, praying the
benefit of a pension, was read and referred to
the Secretary at War.
A committee was appointed to bring in a bill
tocontinuein force an acft, entitled, an art to re
gulate procefles in the federal courts, and Mr.
Sedgwick, Mr. Sturges, and Mr. Contce, ap
pointed.
On motion of Mr. Lawrance the report of the
Secretary of the Treasury, for eftablilhing a mint,
was ordered to be communicated to the Senate.
Agreeable to the order of the day, the bill, to
incorporate the fubferibers to the bank of the
United States, was again taken up, and on the
question forpaffingthe bill, a debate ensued and
continued until the adjournment.
Monday, Eeb. 7.
A letter from the Secretary of State, inclosing
a report upon the memorial of Andrew Brown,of
the city of Philadelphia, printer, was read and
laid on the table.
The report is as follows :
The Secretary of State, to whom was referred
the memorial of Andrew Brown, printer, of Phi
ladelphia, has had the/ame under his confiderati
-011, and thereupon makes the following
II t P O R T ,
The memorialist states that he has in contem
plation to publish a corredl edition of the laws,
treaties, and resolutions ofthe United States,and
prays that such measures may be adopted for
giving a public authentication to his work, as may
ensure its reception throughout the United
States.
The Secretary of state observes, that there ex
ists, at present but a single edition of the Laws
of rhe United Stares, to wit, the one printed by
Childsand.Swaine : that this edition isauthentic,
the proof-fheets thereof having been carefully
collated by sworn clerks, with the original rolls
in his office, and rendered literally conformable
therewith. That the firft volume of this edition
can now rarely be found, the copies originally
printed being mostly disposed of.
That it is desirable that copies of the Laws
fliould be so multiplied throughout the ftates,and
in fucli cheap forms, as that every citizen of the
United States may be able to procure them. That
it is important also, that such publications be
rendered authentic, by a collation of the proof
fheets with the original rolls, by sworn clerks,
when they are printed at the feat of govern
ment, or in its neighborhood, and by a collation
of the whole work when printed at a distance,
734
NOES
and a certified corre&ion of its typographycal
errors annexed to each volume
That this, however, if done at the public ex
pence, would occasion an inconvenient augmen
tation of the number of clerks, as the ast of col-
Jation requires the presence of three clerks, oue
to hold the roll, a second a printed copy already
authentitated, and the third the proof-iheet.
That it would be more reasonable that persons
of confidence lhould be employed, at the expence
of the Editor, to be named and sworn as clerks
for the fpecia! occasion.
Thar, in this way, he is of opinion it will be
advantageous to the public to permit that the
Laws to be printed by the memorialist, be colla
ted with, and corrected by the original rolls,and
that a certificate thereof, by the Secretary of
State, be annexed to the Edition.
Thomjs Jefferson, Secretary of State.
February sth, 1791.
Mr. Leonard presented the memorial of the
merchants of New-Bedford, in theftate of Mafla
chufets, piaying the eftablifhnient of a post-road
from Boston, to that place.
Mr. White, from the committee appointed for
that purpose, reported a bill to amend an aft,en
titled an ast, to promote the progress of ufeful
arts, which was read thefirft time.
On motion of Mr. Heifter, the memorial of a
number of public creditors, who are holders of
loan-office certificates received for loans of paper
money was referred to a felei.l: committee of five;
Mefl'rs Sherman,Gerry, Heifter, Benfon and Gale.
Agreeable to the order of the day, the bill to
incorporate the subscribers to the Bank of the
United States, was again taken up in the house
and on the question fliall this bill pass, the debates
on the conftutiouality of the bill were renewed,
and continued until an adjournment was called
for. Adjourned until 10 o'clock to morrow.
TUESDAY, Feb. 8
The committee on enrolled bills reported the
A<ft declaring the aflent of Congress to a certain
a<fl of the State of Maryland, as duly enrolled.
The bill to amend the a<ft to promote the pro
gress of ufeful arts, was read the second time,
and referred to a committee of the whole house:
Ordered that one hundred copies be printed.
The Memorial of the Marine Society ofßofton,
011 motion of Mr. Gerry, was referred to the Se
cretary oftheTreafury, to report thereon, at the
next feflion.
Mr. Tucker, of the committee appointed for
the purpose, reported a bill for determining the
next meeting of Congrels—w-hieh was «a<ithe
firft and second time, and ordered to be engrofled
for a third reading to-morrow : A blank is lefc
in the Bill for the day.
A meflage was received from the Senate by Mr.
Otis, their Secretary, informing the house, that
they have palled the bill making appropriation*
for the fnpport of government, tor the year 1791
—and for other purposes.
The Bank Bill was further difcufled—Mr. Viu
ing and Mr. Gerry spoke in its favour, and Mr.
Madison against it: He concluded his speech by
moving the previous question, which the speaker
pqt in the following words—lhall the main ques
tion be now put ? The ayes and noes being de
manded, there were 35 in the affirmative, and
20 in the negative.
On the question, (hall this bill pass ? the ayea
and noes were as follow :
Messrs. Ames, Benfon, Boudinot, Bourne, Cai
wallader, Clymer, Fitzfmons, Floyd, Foster, Cerry,
Cilman, Goodhue, Hartley,'Hathorne, HeiJJer, Hun
tington, Lawrance, Leonard, Livermore, P. Muh
lenburg, Partridge, Ranfellaer, Schurevian, Scot,
Sedgwick, Seney, Sevier, Sherman, Sylvester, Sin
nickfon, Smith (M.) Smith (S. C.) Steele, Sturges,
Thatcher, Tru?nbull, Vining, Wadfworth, IVynkoop
—39- NOES.
jrfejfrs. AJhe, Baldwin, Bloodworth, Brown,
Burke, Carroll, Contee, Gale, Grout, Giles, Jack
son, Lee, Madison, Matthews, Moore, Parker, Stone,
Tucker, White, Williamfon —20.
Sundry petitions were read and referred, and
then the House Adjourned till 10 o'clock to-t/iorrow..
ALBANY, Jan. 26.
A correspondent of this city observes, that the
late choice of Aaron Burr, Esq. to fill the office of
Senator of the United States, is a mod pointed
insult on the citizens of the northern part of this
(late. If a rotation be deemed proper, we have
no objection, but we conceive it, in the highest
degree, illiberal and unjust, that a second Sena
tor fhonld be taken, out of the southern diftrift,
to fill the vacancy of one from the northward :
and the more so, as the advantage J was evidently
taken of our not having that number of repre
sentatives which, it appears by the late cenfus,we
are entitled to. This tranfaCfcion will, however,
serve to open our eyes to our true interest, induce
us to drop all party diftincSions, and firmly to
unite in the general support of our rights and
privileges in representation, as well as on eve*
ry other public queftion,by which the honor and
advantage of this quarter of theftate may be
feded. '
AYES.BOSTON, January 27.
AMERICAN ACADEMY.
Yesterday at ten o'clock, A. M. the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences, held their ltatute
meeting in the Hall of the Maflhchufetts Bank,
and at twelve, proceeded to the Meeting-Houie,
in Brattle-Square, where a well adapted Orati on
was pronounced by the Hon. John Lowell, E q.
one of the members, on the death of the Hon.
James Bowdoin, Esq. their late President. Af
ter the Oration, a colleiftion was made for the
benefit of Mefl'rs. Jennings and Wheeler, who
•were unfortunately wounded in discharging the
military honors at the interment of the Hon.
Mr. Bowdoin. . .
The following is a lift of the arrivals at this
port from foreign ports, from January ift, J79°>
Co January 1, 1 791 —60 fliips, 7 snows, IJ9 "rigs,
170 schooners, and 59 {loops, total 455. The fore
going are exclusive ofthofe veflels which are em
ployed in the coasting-trade of the United ( States,
and which are supposed to amount to near
twelve hundred fail.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand feveri hundred and ninety.
An ACT declaring the consent of Congress, that
a new State be formed within the jurildi<fton
of the Commonwealth of Virginia, and admit
ted into this Union, by the name of the State
.of Kentucky.
WHEREAS the legislature of the Commonwealth ofVirginia,
by an a£t entituled, " An ast concerning the ere&ion of
the diftrift of Kentucky into an independent State," pafled the
eighteenth day of December, one thousand seven hundred and
eighty-nine, have consented, that the diftrift of Kentucky, within
the jurifdi&ion of the laid Commonwealth, and according to its
attual boundaries at the time of pafling the acl aforefaid, (hould be
formed into a new State : And whereas a convention of delegates,
chosen by the people of thefaid diftri6t of Kentucky, have petition
ed Congress to consent, that, on the firft day of June k one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-two, the said diftrift (hould be formed
into a new State, and received into the union, by the name of
•• the State of Kentucky."
Be it enafled by Sen ate and House o/Representatives
♦/"the United States oj America in Congrejs ajfembled, and it is hereby
tnaEled and declared, That the Congress doth consent, that the said
diftritt of Kentucky, within the jurifdittion of the Commonwealth
of Virginia, and according to its actual boundaries,on the eigh
teenth day of December, one thoufaud seven hundred and eighty
nine, (hell, upon the firft day of June, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-two, be formed into a new State, separate from, and
independent of, the said Commonwealth of Virginia.
And be it further enabled and declared, That upon the forefaid firft
day of June, one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, the said
new State, by the name and stile of the State of Kentucky, (hall be
received and admitted into this Union, as a new and entire mem
ber of the United States of America.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Rcprefentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United
and Prcjident of the Senate.
Approved, February the fourth, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United Matey
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
THE Bill depending before Congref for eflab lift
ing a National Bank, is certainly conftitution
nl—for the State Governments being by the Conflitu
tioti dive/led of the power of making money, either of
fapet, or gold and fllver, it plainly follows, that as a
circulating medium is necessary, Congress alone is com
petent to creating th'tsmedium. It is said that authors
and inventors alone, are by the Conflitution entitled
to txcluflve privileges ; but the ejlablifhment of a Na
tional Bank, it is said, Cornells -with it exclusive pri
vileges : This discovery however seems not to extend
to State Banks—no exclusive rights being mentioned
*s appertaining to them ! Perhaps it is not conflder
td as contravening the Conflitution, for the particular
States to incorporate companies with themofl extensive
privileges, as thefs privileges are confined to the State !
So is the circulation of the Bank Paper of every par
ticular State ; it can scarcely be paffedout of the cities
in which the Banks are fixed —consequently can never
anjwer, in any conflderable degree, the purposes of
money—and as to a general currency, it can not have
that quality attached to it, without a manifefl viola
tion of the Conflitution —-which fay/, that no State shall
ijfue paper money. Jt is said that the States are in
the habit of granting Charters ; we presume that Con
gress will not abridge this power in the States : But
it is to be remembered, that the Conflitution, and the
laws enatfed pursuant thereto, are paramount to all
ft ate legijlation—and if a State f})ould incorporate for
purposes to operate beyond the limits of their particular
yurifdiftion, the all would be null and void—nor could
Congress conflflently delegate a power for such a pur
fofe.
Every general regulation ?nay interfere for a sea
son with the interejl of forne individuals ; but if this
inconvenience Jhould be fufficient to prevent the of era
tions of the gtner al government, the bufmefs of legi
flat'ton must jla/idflill.
The Injlitution of a National Bank has reference
to the public at large : CircumJlanceS may conned
with the original ejlablifhment some advantages in re
lation to the place where the bank may bt Jituated ;
but to suspend the injlitution till no objeflion of this
kind exists, is to postpone a quefl'ion of greatejl
importance to be immediately decided, line die.
C I V I s.
THE TALE OF THE COW
From the New-York Magazine, for January, 1791.
AFAIR-FAC'D brown cow, fed on clover most dainty,
A buxom youngjade as you'll meet with in twenty,
Had lately broke loose from hei walks on the Hudson,
And ran away bellowing to live the wild woods on—
Was caught in a trap on the banks of the Delaware,
And coop'd in a liable before (he was well aware.
The proud fnuffy Dons of the anciint dominion,
Had helped to catch her—but were of opinion
" That (hortly her stall must be some where south-westward."
By George ! this wasfix'd, while (he graz'd to the eastward.
But hear now the fly, plotting sons of old Penn--
" The cow's in our stable—there (he must remain.
" Talk now of agreements, and bargains your fill,
" Our scheme is affe&ed—the grift's at our mill."
High words wereexchang'd, and much Billingsgate flung,
Each claiming the cow, for the love of her d g.
By-ftanders took part, as their int'refts were in it—
Some ioin'd the dominion—some favour'd the Pennite.
The Dons grew enrag'd at the thoughts ot being jockied,
And swore by Patowmack—they'd not be thus mocked !
Then seizing thecow, —(for the Dons all fear scorns)
Attempted to drag her along-»by the hprns.
The Pennites, conceited, elate and imperious,
Could hardly believe that their rivals were serious :
But soon being alarm'd, left the Dons (hould prevail,
All clafp'd the cow's rump—and held fact by her tail—■
And swore by the city, white men (hould turn fable,
Before the cow ftir'd one foot's lengthfrom their ft-ible.
The croud gathering round them, loud hooping and laughing,
Huzza'd for both ends of the cow—with much fcofling.
But thoughtful fpe£lators exprefs'd with fad laces,
Their fears that the cow would be soon torn in pieces.
While parties run violent—(poor cow I bewail her)
Some cursing the horn?, r, and some the vile tailcr,
The Vans of the Hudson, unwillingto bilk her,
Laid by their long pipes, and fat all down to milk her.
A NEW.YORK FAR.MZR
Philadelphia, Feb. 9.
WHAT is a state aflembly but the collected wis
dom of a state ? and what is more proper than
for wifdoni, especially lb much of it, to give ad
vice ? and what has the Pennsylvania aflembly
done but to give advice to Congress ? A second
reason to vindicate their advice is, that the ad
visers have had experience of the excise; but
Congress has not. When the aflembly maintain
by their vote that an excise is subversive of li
berty, we fee that both wisdom and experience
confirm what they aflert. Pennsylvania then has
loft its liberty—for it has had, and still has, an
excise law in force—which, of course, has sub
verted the liberty of the state: It has lasted so
long, that most of the people were born in sla
very. It is not known how the marshal will re
turn the number of slaves ; but it may be a quef
tion, whether the people born under a flavifti ex
cise law, will be allowed representatives, except
in the proportion of 3 to 5, according to the con
stitution. It feenis unaccountable that the as
sembly and people are going on as if they were
ignorant of their flavifti condition. The event,
it feetns, has happened here, which was foretold
in another state. While the aflembJy was dif
cufling some question, which was explained by
several able men, a member from the country
rose with some warmth, and declared that those
men were gloiling the affair over so as to deceive
them. If the bill {hould pass, said he, we shall
be the most miserable undonepeople in the world,
and know nothing of it.
Why Hioll Id not the Representatives of Penn
sylvania, in the (late legislature, lend a hand to
dispatch the business of Congress ? They are near
neighbours, and they cannot but have obfei ved
that the latter has a great deal to do, and but lit
tle time to do it in. Many hands make light
work. The new government, which is often
compared to a building, is not yet finifhed: It is
a benevolent pracftice for the neighbours to fall
too and help a new beginner: They kindly work
at the frame, and affilt at the raising and cover
ing of it. Congress has but just set up the trade
of making laws in this place, and no doubt will
feel encouraged to continue it here, where, with
out loling one of its customers, it is so easy to get
journeymen. If the kind folks, who are so for
ward to lend assistance, should find their own af
fairs at fixes and sevens, in consequence of their
tranfadtirig the business of Congress, the least that
Congress, if ir has honor and gratitude, can do,
I is to poltpone its own work, and aflitt its bene
factor. What a pleasant thing to fee those who
were expecfted to be rivals, engaged so lovingly
about the fame business. One would think that
the amiable temper of the friends in this Quaker
city had mellowed the wrangling spirits of the
two governments. The time seems to be coming
when the lion and the lamb (lull lie down toge
ther: When that shall happer, it is to be sup
posed that the lion Swill not go without a supper.
Such friendfhip for Congress feeras to have occa
fioned the late doings of the Penilylvania afleni
735
bly. Jealousy, that quarrelsome fault-finding
Devil, ilxall be cast out and bound in chains—he
has stood too long pimping at the ear of govern
ment, and whispering malignant suspicions of its
belt friends.
Ic will do oine's heart good to live r or 2 hun
dred years longer, and fee with what good nature
the world's business will be done: In France, they
are going to spoil the old trade of making war :
Nations are not going to be quarrelsome and am
bitious any more : They will talk arty dispute
over, or they will make a prize question of the
matter, or leave it to some academy to fettle :
The red coats will be ftrip'd off the soldier's
backs—and as red is out of fafhion at present, the
cloth will be torn into llrips, to be worn for the
cure of fore throats ; gun powder will be used
only to kill rice birds, canvas backs, &c. ; and
cannon balls will be kept to grind muilardfeed:
And what delight it will give to fee the state go
vernments so much the champions of the federal
constitution, as to take all uiipleafant work off the
hands ofCongrels, least it should make that body
unpopular : What may we not expedt from this
generous national spirit in future ? In its very
beginning we have ieen Congress and the aflein
bly engaged at the fame time debating the excise :
May we not then expect to fee the Aflenibly take
up a new funding a<Tt, or militia law, for the
Union—and Congress, scorning to be outdone in
generofiry by its neighbor, form a committee
of the whole houfeto discuss the regulations of
the state judiciary, or the best means of maintain
ing schools for the poor. BefiJes the generosity
of this mutual aid, there is a great deal of reason
for it : When a man undertakes to do what is
none of his bufinef#, he cannot be accufedof fel
fifhnefs—A looker on fees the fault of the play
better than he who holds the cards—we may ex
pert more wisdom therefore: Further, it belongs
properly to government to set the example of
this love of others, ruore than ourselves, by do
ing their business for them—for if a private per
son was to pretend to do it before it gets into
fafhion, he would get his head broke.
A correspondent observes, that the establish
ment of a National Bank, being by some thought
neceflary, to enable the general government to
carry the A<ft for establishing the permanent feat
of government on the Patowmac, into execution,
it is exceedingly difficult to account for the op
position to the bank bill, on the part of those who
are interested in favor of the removal to the
southward : In this view of the fubjedi, the friends
to the bank lyftem give the most unequivocal
proof of their disposition to support the public
faith, as pledged by the residence bill.
On Monday lait the Supreme Court of the
United States was opened in this city, before
their Honors the Chief Jultice of the United
States, and William Cujhing, Ja?nes Iredell, and
James Wilson, Efqrs. Afl'ociate Judges.
Mr. Wi lliamson's motion to re-commit the firft sec
tion of the bill for incorporating the fubferibers to the national
bank, was miftated in our last : The motion was in the follow
ing words, " To commit the firft feftion, for the purpose of al
tering the time of fubfcnbing, so that the holders of state securi
ties, aflumcd to be paid by the United States, may be on a footing
with the holders of other securities, formerly called national Se
curities."
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 17/4.
3 pr. Cents 9/2.
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UN FUNDED DEBT
Final Settl.and other Certificates 16/2.
Indents gj~2
N. and S. Carolina, debts, 12J.
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
No. 91, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jcrfey Paper Money,
An J all kinds of SECURITIES of the United States, or of any
particular State
Philadelphia, Feb. 1790.
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
T E
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c.
Of the filft Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street,between Chefnut and Market-Streets.
N. B. A few Tickets in the New-York Lottery,
which is to be drawn the fir J} of April next, for sale.
South-Carolina Lands for Sale,
ABOUT one hundred miles from Charleston, for any kind of
Goods. One third part of 63 Trafls of Land, containing
51,900 acres, lying neai the rivers of Savannah, Big and Little Salt
Cohachees, and the fork of the Edifto : These Lands are a
dark, or a copper-coloured foil, in an inhabited part of the State.
Also 5 tra6h of Land in Ninety-Six diflritt, 4 in Orangeburg dif
tri&, 6 in Camden, all containing 7,600 acres, all good land, with
streams of water running through them. These Lands will be fold
so low, that a man may make his fortune in buying them, for the
ourpofe of felling them again, as emigrants are daily arriving there
from Europe, to fettle.
Duplicate Plots and Grants maybe seen, and indisputable titles
will be given by the fubferibe*. FREDERICK KING.
Morrtjlown, Jan, 1791. (77 —-6wiwJ
pr. £ 86J pr. cent.
46 do.
9/2. 46 do.
81 do.
46 do.
60 do.
A SM
«m
LINES
On Major WYLLYS,
OJthe Federal Troops, zvho fell in a late engagement with the Savages,
at the river St. Joseph, in the Wejlern Territory oJ the V. States.
BY A FRIEND,
WHERE the fack'd hamlet darts expiring gleams,
Thro* fmould'ring clouds, and thy encrimfon'd dreams
War ash ! flow rolling fu the western bourne,
Thy flaughter'd sons in sullen murmur mourn.
There, if e'er chance the traveller shall lead,
The blood-drench'd shore with rev'rence let him tread,
And mark the spot where oh, at eve unseen,
The weeping Genii plant the laurel green,
And fancy bids her choiced flow'rets rife,
To deck the lonely grave wheie WYLLYS lies.
If polifh'd manners, undifguift'd by art,
The tendered pa (lions, and the firmed heait ;
Where lavsfh Heaven united every grace,
To the mild virtues of the Wyllys race.
If worth, long tried, diftinguifh'd and approv'd,
Could move the tyrant Death, or e'er had inov'd,
Thy valu'd life had known a longer date,
Nor savage yells announe'd thy hapless fate.
A bard, the meanest of the tuneful throng,
Whofc idle lyre, has long remain'd unllrung,
Who lov'd thee living, arid regrets thee dead,
Pays this last tribute to thy gentle lhade.
Th' historic muse, in more exalted verse,
May thus to future times thy fate rehearse.
From England's gentlcil blood, an honor'd name,
In virtues, arts and arms, long known to fame.
He sprung:—Where Hartjoidcrowns with fpiry pride,
Her high romantic banks and chryflal tide,
llif infant sports and happier hours were led,
Till Yale' 3 fair laurels, giac'd his youthfnl head.
What time the Briton, to our guiltless Ihorc,
In proud array, his thund'ring legions bore,
When erst Columbia's starry flag unfurl'd,
Show'd a new eagle to the wond'ring world,
The gallant youth appear'd at freedom's shrine,
Drew his yet unftain'd steel, and join'd the embattlM line ;
There in long toils, and dangers tried, he won
Th' approving smiles of godlike Washington.
With tarnifh'd arms the Britons fought the main,
And heaven-born Peace, refum'd her golden reign,
The patriot bands reliev'd from martial toil,
Return and court the long-negletted foil :
Severer cares his warrior arms engage,
To guard theWeftern realm, and quell barbarian rage,
And lo ! on wild Miami's dusky plain,
O'er flaughter'd heaps he leads his vittor train,
There as the foe in trembling hade retires,
In glory's arms the hapless chief expires.
Columbians rife ! no more inactive lie,
Your flaughter'd friends for fpecdy vengeance cry :
Their mangled corses and yet teeming blood,
Their groans yet ecchoing in the weflern wood ;
The matron's piercing fhrick, the infant's cries,
And yon brown cloud flow rising to the skies,
Call to revenge—to arms ! to arms repair !
Urge home the ruthless brood, and wage eternal war,
On those curst miscreants whom no faith can bind ,
The scourge of God, the terror ot mankind ;
Then let the vengetul bolts of war be hurl'd,
And with black myriads crowd the internal world.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
PENNSYLVANIA. x
A general rule having been adopted by the House
of Representatives of Pennsylvania, whereby
permilfion is granted to every member to en
ter on the journals, the reasons for his vote on
a quellion, when the yeas and nays are called.
The following are offered by members of the
majority, who voted in favor of the resolutions
refpe<Sing the excise law, now depending in
the Congress.
\ LTHOUGH in the greatbufinefs of legislation, supreme con-
JT\. fidence is placed in the representatives by their constituents,
and every member is indisputably permitted to form his deci
sions according to the best of his judgment and information ; yet
-cases may arise, where a reprcfentative would wifti to aflign the
rcafons for hiscondu£l. Su han occasion is now presented, when
a diJJ'cnt has been delivered to this house, upon a fubjeft of infinite
importance to the peace and happiness of the citizens of this com
monwealth. On this ground, members of the majority who vo
ted in favor of the resolutions refpe&ing the excise bill, then de
pending before the house of Representatives in Congress, believe
it also their duty to produce the reasons for their vote ; and they
conceive it not amongst the lead of the honors conferred on them,
that they are permitted to hand down to posterity this proof of
their attachment to the liberties of their country. That, ftiould
it be the unfortunate fate of this rising empire to groan under the
complicated (hackles of European excises, with all their concom
itant horrors, it may remain on reoord, that there were [members
of the legislature of Pennsylvania who lorefaw the evil, and ft rove
to avert it.
We juftify our conduct on the following principles :
ift. We contend, that the representatives of Pennsylvania col
lcftcd in capable of forming a judgment of the pre
vailing opinions of their constituents in every quarter of the State,
and we believe, that a very large portion of the people will be
opposed to thisexcife under every poilible modification.
2d. Sensible of ihe importance of stability in federal measures,
and that such stability could never be obtained, unless those mea
sures were conformable to the public mind, we thought it our
duty in an efprcial manner, to call the attention of our Senators in
Congress, to eveiy part of the bill which ftiould militat'.' against
the liberties of the people.
3d. Knowing that the constitution of the United States had giv
en to Congress the right of levying an excise—we have not by our
resolutions insinuated the most distant idea of denying the exer
cise of that right, unless it should result from the impoflibility of
colle&ing that tax, without attaching to it all those odious pow
ers so intimately blended with it in Euiope.
4th. Although the highest confidence is reposed in our repre
sentatives in Congress, and although we may revere both their in
tegrity and abilities ; yet when we discovered measures in con
templation, which we conceived would eventually tap the founda
tion of our confederacy, it would be criminal in us 10 be filenr.
sth. If our apprehtnfions, arising from excise laws, should lead
us into the adoption of expreflions warm in their complexion,
they are far short of those addrefied to the inhabitants of Quebec,
by the Congress of 1775 : a Congress composed of some of the
greatest characters that ever met in any nation in the world, and
of which the illustrious Prehdent of the United Slates was then
an a&ive member. Sentiments formed on principles like these,
mult ever remain the fame. No change of circumstances can varv
the nature of things : nor can that which was odious in 1775, be
come amiable in 179.1. We read the sentiment of that day, and
we chcri(h it in our bosoms, although it may be discarded by
others. Say the Congress of 1775» when endeavoring to rouse the
inhabitants of Quebec against the government of Great-Britain,
they fubje&ed you to the impofiuons of excite, the horror of all
free States, thus wrelling property from you by the moji odi
ous oj taxes, and laying open to insolent tax-gatherers, houses, the
fceues of domestic peace and comfort, and called the Cajlles oj
Englijh Subjects, in the books of the law." This countenanced
by such illultrious charadkers, in our abhorrence of this mcfl odi
ous oj taxes, and alarmed at the idea qf having our castles thrown
proikrate on the ground,we Tpoke with the voice of Fieemcn,when
we beheld the approach of a tax, which had been cellared as
the horror oj all free States. We saw that our houses were to be
entered by infpe&ors at every hour of the day. For our hcufes
and our Jlorei, in this country, are fynonimous things. That pri
vate mercantile tranfafkions ; That the propeit) of the virtuous
and industrious citizen was to be faciificed, left the fraudu.eut
trader should escape—that the arrangement and disposition of our
property was to be tranjmelled in our houses, without even the
pretence of a claim demanded on the part of government that a
badge was to be placed over our doors as a disgracing centinel,
proclaiming a suspicion that a knave dwelt within, and that a holt
of officers were to be let loose on the citizens of Pennsylvania,
over whom we could have no controul.
As guardians then of their rights, as faithful centinels over the
public Weal, as men who wished to transmit liberty to our poste
rity, we called upon our representatives in the Senate ot Congress,
to watch over the rights of their constituents wiih a jealous eye,
and to defend us against all unwarrantable encroachments of pow
er ; further than this our resolutions do not extend, and we bold
ly deny every charge brought against us as interfering with the ge
neral government : we have not even proce ded to injlrwl our Se
nators :we have confined ourfelvesto a refpe&ful tk Hope, that
our liberties will be attended to : if it is criminal to hope, then
are we miserable indeed. But we know our rights, and we know
the rights of Congress, and should deem ourselves unwoithy of
the trust reposed in us, if we negledl to pay every proper attention
to both.
6th. Although the constitution in extending the resources of
the United States, embraced almost every poflible means ot extract
ing a revenne from the people; yet little did we fu(pe& that in a
time of profound peace with every foreign nation, when the bltl
fings of liberty were expedked to flow through our land,
there would be feledked from arnongft thole powers the m °f* odi
ous amongst them, which we conceived could never be called into
operation but in the nioft prefling emergency when every other
source should have failed and funk beneath the public demand.
Lawranre Scckle, Francis Gurney, Richard Wells,
William Findley, Jacob Eyerly Jun. Samuel Maclay,
Jonathan Hodge, Richard Riley, Anthony Lerch jun.
John Ludwig, John Baird, Joseph Read, Nicholas Lutz,
John Mulhallon, Jafcob Saylor, John Oliver, David
Mitchel, Thomas Paul, John Breckbill, Mat hew Riic'iie,
James Allifon, John Minor, Abraham Cable, Obadiah
Gore, Jacob Miley, Philip Gatdner, James Johnson,
Thomas Mawhorter, Gabriel Heifter, James Finley,
Albert Gallatin, John White, Thomas Britton, Isaac
Warner, Jacob Erb, Cunningham.
THE Copartnership of HEWES and ANTHONY having ex
pired the 3111 ultimo, they request those, who have any de
mands, to exhibit their accounts and receive their money; and
those who are indebted, are desired to make speedy payment, to
either of the Subscribers, at their Compting-Houfe, No. 5, Chef
nut-Street-Wharf. J O S I A H HEWES,
JOSEPH ANTHONY.
Philadelphia, Jan. 15, 1791
N. B. They have yet on hand, and tor SALE, at their STORE
abovementioned,
HYSON, Souchong, and Bohea TEAS,
Three cases Caflia,
Pimento in bags,
Muscovado Sugar,
A few Cases old Batavia Arrack,
One calk of Durham Mustard,
New England Rum in hogfhrads and barrels,
A quantity ol prime Bolton Beef,
Spermaceti, right whale and tanners' Oil,
Best pickled Mackrel,
6by 8— 7 by 9 —Bbyio —9byn—and 10 by 12 Window
Glass,
A quantity of excellent carrot Tobacco,
And an elegant CHAN DLLIER.
Hen r y Kuhl,
At No. 143, Second-Street, near Race-Strcet,
BY advice of his friends in New-York and Philadelphia, has
opened an office for the purpose of buying and felling, on corn
million, the different fpeciesof Stock, and of liquidated and unliqui
dated paper in the market.
He will obtain such Certificates as are required by the funding
law, for those who have unliquidated Securities ;and transjei flock
from and to the Treasury and the Offices of the Commifliouers of
Loans, on moderate terms.
Having for several years past been employed in the Treasury of
the United States, he is well acquainted with i s operations and
forms ; and flatters himfelf that on that fcorehehas a decided ad
vantage in tranfatting business here. Heis fully imprefled with
the truth of the adage that " dispatch is the foul of buftnefs," and
will always make the interell of his employers an objett of the
fifft importance.
Philadelphia, December 29th> 1790.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT, 1
January 25, 1791. J
THE Public Creditors are reminded that, in order to the pro
per difpofmons for paying the Interest in the several States,
it is necessary that the amount to be paid in each should be pre
viously known at the Treasury. And as the expiration of the firft
quarter is not far distant, it is wished that those who have not yet
done it, may be expeditious in making and (unifying their elec
tion, pursuant to the ast making provision for the debt of the
United States.
INFORMATION WANTED.
THE Subscriber requejh, if any gentleman
can give him injorviation of a purchase of Lands made
by a Mr. Daniel Richardct, in the year 1781 and
1782, in foms fart of the United States, he will be so
kind as to info'iti his Brother, by direfling a line to
him, at the Printer's office. S. RICHARDET.
January, 1791
itnnfylyania Hojtiital, 31 Jan. 1791.
Wanted a Ground Rent, of
15 or 2c£. Pr, annum, -well fccured. Enquire of
Tosiah Hewes,
j.AWRANCE SEiKEL,
Owen Jones, jun'r.
736
Martinico Coffee,
(2aw6w.)
Forty Dollars Reward.
LOST by theSubfcriber, on the »2th day of January 1791, be
tween Peiiollopon and Freehold, in the county of Monmouth,
and State of New-Jersey, the following Certificates, issued by the
said State, to sundry Soldier , for the three-fourth parts of the de
preciation of their pay ; all of which are iigned by John Sevens,
jun. Treasurer, and counterfigncd by James Ewing, Auditor, viz.
No. Dated, Payable to
323 June 26, 1781, Towel Alston,
399 January 27, do. Jacob Long,
593 June 29, do. Oliver Cromwell,
664 June 30, do. James Kinky,
740 ]uly 2, do. George Long,
869 july 4, do. Ananias Clark,
938 July 30, do. Samuel D^tey,
1060 March 20, 1782, hphraim Patten,
1128 August 8, do." James Coulfton,
1133 Augufk 8, do. Moses Thompson,
1230 Jan nary 27, 1783, Asa Gilder (leaves,
1237 April 9, do. Michael Lane,
841 July 4, 1781, James Clark,
Any person who may have found the said Certificates, and will
retuinthem to the fubfcriber,livingat Pcnolloponaforefaid,(hall re
ceive the above reward ; and in proportion for any part of them
which may be returned.
All perfonsare hereby cautioned against purchafmg any of the
above Certificates, as payment is stopped at the public offices.
If any of them should be offered for sale. the person to whom thev
are offered is requested to stop the fame, and give notice thereof
to their.humble servant. KENNETH HANKINSON.
Monmouih Csunty, Nezv -Jersey, Jan.\§, 1791.
TO BE SOLD,
The seat ok the late governor
LIVINGSTON,
situate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, op» the public road to
Morris Town. The farm contains between 90 and too acres of
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also appei
taining to the said farm about ig acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
the farm a very large colledkion of various kinds of the choiceit
fruit trees, &c. in full bearing; the house is large, convenient,
well built and in very good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars,
New-York, fan. 1791.
This day js pubbjktd,
By Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22, in Front-Striet,
The American Museum,
For JANUARY, 1791.
CON TENTS.
ORIGINAL ARTICLES.
METEOROLOGICAL obfervaiions, made in Philadelphia,-
December 1790
Observations on the weather and diftfafes in do.
Exports from Baltimore, from Oft. l* t0 0&- *> 1 79°
Plan of a RulTia voyage
Number of fouls in the territory of the united Hates, north weft
of the river Ohio, in 1790
" I have seen—and I have not seen." By the late gov. Livingftoa
Series of letters from a gentleman to his friend
Observations on gaming
Sketch of the nature and causes of diseases—explained upon icicn
tific principles
SELECTED ARTICLES
Letter from general Varnum to his lady —written a few days be-
fore his death
Prog re fs to bankruptcy of an honed tradefmar.
Cursory thoughts on duelling
Extra&s from the introduttory lecture of the hon. James Wilson,
cfq.L. L.D.
Anecdote of Thomas Paine
Anecdote of an American, at a theatre in London
Bon mot, refpe&ing the king's evil
Boa mot, refpe£iing a musical performer v
Some account of the shape, manners and customs of the Hottentot*
Calamitous events entertaining to the mind. By the rev. Joseph
Lathrop
Essay on appearing what we neither are, nor wish to be
Curio, a charatter. By miss Bowdler
Essay on the influence of religion in civil society. By the rev.
Thomas Reefe, A. M. pallor of tl)e prefbytei ian church at
Salem (S. C.)
Revolutions of English literature. Tranfiated from the Italian
Curious particulars d'.(covered by the microscope
On the improvement of worn-out land. By Richard Peters, esq.
Expcnfe, culture, and profit of half an acre of hemp. By mr.
Curven
Expense and product of an acre of hops
Mode of destroying canker-worms, and of preventing the bla&ifg
of grain. By John Cuftiing
Precautious against fire
Mode of purifying tallow, to make candles
A singular accident
Method of tempering edge-tools, of too brittle a quality
Method of checking the too free perspiration of the hands
Lift of the mod material articles exported from the ilate of \"cw-
Yoik,in July, Auguft,and September, 1790
Arrivals at the port of New-York, from January 1, 1790, to Ja-
nuary i, 1791
Liftot the fea-velfels, which arrived in the port of Philadelphia,
from Januaiy 1, to January 1, 1791
Account of the patients in the Philadelphia dispensary,
cember 1, 1789, to December 1,1790
Bill of moitality, for the town of Salem, for the year 1790
Extracts from the census of the inhabitants of MafTachufetls
Census of the inhabitants of the Hate of New-York
Census otthc 'nhahaants of the city and county of New-York
Statement of the tonnage of veflels, entered in the united dates,
from O&ober i, 1789, to September 30, 1790
Obfe»vations on the artifices of animals. From Smellie's philo
fopby of natural history
The negro equalled by few Europeans. Tranfluted from the French
Anecdote
Charter of Rhode-Island.
Verses, addrefTed to the truftces of the college and academy
Philadelphia. By the rev. Nathaniel Evans
The hermit's vision. By the rev. Thomas Peniofe
Inftru&ions to a porter. By mr. Bedingfield
Verses on the new year
Hymn, written for Suuday-fchools.
The nest
Invitation to the country. By Lefbia
Friendftiip. By the rev. Thomas Penrofe
Home— anextemoore effufion
Song, written in Maryland, during the late war.
Philadelphia, Feb. 1, 1791
The pries oj this paper is j dollars par annum
Amount,
£.6° 8 9
jo 16 ioj
60 8 q
57 12 6
5 4 4i
3 12
1 3 5 7
3' 13 9
3° 7 i°i
'5° 5 9l
6 3 7 si
61 l 6 10;
4 '7 'ci
8o 3m
p K.OSE
PROSE
POET R y
By William Hayley, eft.
from De-