PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS JOff.V. FZN-W, N.o. 69- lUGItSTREET^_B£TWE£N SECOND AND T-'URD STRlfrS x A.
[NTo. Bi, of Vol ll.]
From the NORTH-CAROLINA STATE GAZETTE
Mejfrs HODGE and WILLS,
HAVING observed in your paper of the 17th in/), the proceed
ings of a committee of the w&ojeHoulc of Aifevriyly of the
ol November lail, I confefs I wa< not a little that a
ftibjtft of so delicate a nature, should have made lis way to the
world through the channel of a newspaper remarkable for its pu
rity. While on the other hand, it is certain, the proceedings
therein fitted, were ihaped down from a mouffer or it 111 greater
magnitude (a letter teeming with the fevered reproach and iiiveel
ive, addrelTed to the individual Senators th'mlelves.) On the othei
hand, it is equally certain, that they bavefince been in a great
sure newly moulded and pohfhcd with a different brujh.
Regard tor truth, and public' character, induces me to lay be
fore you a protcft against proceedings tinged with so much intem
perance, which was prepared by the more moderate part of the
house, and signed by foine in its rough dress, in cafe they should
have been finally adopted. A MEMBER.
WE whose names are under written, from a sense of that justice
due to ourselves as men, and as the Reprefeutatives ot a free
people, do protest against the resolutions entered into by this
House, refpr&ing t! c Senators of this State in CongrcTs.
lfl. We conceive that however much theftate of North-Caroli
na may, in the eyes of fotn •, he a fuff:rer from the lale proceed
ings of Congrrfs, such injury should be presented to the world by
f'pirited remonftrarices and firm resolves.
2d. However much individuals may be actuated by party spi
rit, or local resentment, we conceive d.fpaflionate proceedings
belt suited to a political body.
3d. As the Senators of this state in Congress have hitherto con
ducted th-mfelves wirh great integrity and propriety in office, it
argues the greatest intemperance, to throw the load ofafperfion
upon two individuals for the supposed faults of a whole body.
4th. The preamble to the resolutions, which have gone forward
to the world, is cloathed in language, which we not only conceive
improper, but inconsistent with the dignity of a grent people.
sth. The resolutions themfefves, are no ways confident with the
preamble—The preamble (laics neglect and want of execution in
the Senatorsof this state in Congress, individuals, when all the
resolutions, except one, are relative to tjhc senatorial proceedings
collectively.
6th. The silence ol the Senators in not corresponding with the
executive of this state, we do by no means condemn as a crime.
lft. It iii many instances, deteat the good of the politi
cal whole.
2. The inftru&ions from the executive might not be die fenti
mentsof the people, or of the legiflituie—they might be tainted
with prejudice and locality. And
3. We do not conceive the n cclli'y of such correfpondcnceex
preffd or implied in the nature ot the office of Senator
7th. Motives of refpeft might have induced, we will admit, the
Senators to have written to ihe Irom whom thry receiv
ed their appoiotmcnt, but wc do not condemn such silence as a
crime.
Bth. Having confidence in the appointments when made, we re
ly upon the zeal and virtue of the Senators in supporting the pub
lic good. We should regret, that in any inftancc they felt locality
4>r were actuated by the warmth of a political fever.
PENNSYLVANIA,
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
of this coinmomwealth, ever
Ittentive to the righrs and liberties of
their conitiuienrs,. and conceiving it a duty in
cumbent on them to esprefs their fentimentson
such matters of a public nature, as in their opini
on have a tendency to deltroy those rights, agree
*o the following resolutions.
Resolved, that any proceeding on the part of
the United States tending to the collection of a
revenue hy means of excise, eftabliUied upon
principles subversive of the peace, liberty and
rights of the citizen, ought to attradtthe attenti
on of this house.
Resolved, that no public exigency, within the
knowledge or contemplation of this house, can in
their opinion warrant the adoption of any species
of taxation, which fliall violate thole rights,which
are the basis of our government, and thereby ex
hibit the lingular spectacle of a nation resolutely
opposing the oppreifion of others in order to en
{lave itfelf.
Resolved,, that these fentinients be communi
cated to the Senators reprefetiting the state of
Pennsylvania, in the Senate of the United States,
with a hope that they will oppole every part of
the excise bill now before Congress, which {hall
militate against the just rights and liberties of
the people,
In the house of Representatives, on the questi
on for adopting the above—there were 40 Teas.
16 Nays. On the vote, taken in the Senate, for
non-concurrence there were 9 Teas, and 8 Nays.
From EHJNLAP's DAILY ADVERTISER
AR-E not the flare-governments competitors
for power with the legislature of the union!?;
and if they are i'o,can they be deemed fit arbiters,
«f its proceedings ?
Has not unifor m experience shewn, that all bo
dies of men are zealous to augment their autho
rity, and extend their jurisdiction ! and does it
not follow, that if a privilege of censuring the
federal government a: pleasure is exercised by the
FEBRtAIIY 5,. 175 I.
legislatures of the States theywill use it to limit,
and if polfible, to depress that government J
Is it not evident, that such a Hate of things
will lead to itruggles, that molt, in the end,pi ove
fatal to either one or the other ofthefe eltablilh
ments ; that either the federal-govern ment will
become odious, and lose its vigour, or that the
legislatures of the ltates will be crulhed, as in
compatible with it 3 prosperity ?
Will not this, in the one cafe, deprive usofthe
means of supporting oar public credit, our com
merce, our navigation, our manufactures, and
consequently, our agriculture, and throw us in
to confufion and civil discord Or, 011 the other
hand, consolidate .all the powers of government
into one eftablilliment, that may prove too exten
sive for a permanent republic !
Is there any other mode of obviating tliefedan
gers, but that cach species of government (hould
cautioufiy keep within the fpiiere allotted to it,
without interfering with the other, until it shall
exceed the powers granted to it, buc leaving it
to the people to judge of its merits and proceed
ings, who are the only tribunal which lias a de
clared right to decide upon them !
Can it be expected that the federal government
will long continue to lit in the fame place with
our legillature, if the latter avails itfelf ol its
proximiryto the former, to hold up its measures
to public odium while yec unfinilhed, and thus
to predispose the people to diliike and dilobey
them ?
Or,-will the other states be content, that the
general government should remain here, if the
legislature of Pennsylvania aflumes the privilege
of bialfing the laws during their pailbge, to its
views or interefts,while more diftaru members of
the union carnnot be acquainted with them, till
they are established, and therefore cannot be al -
tered without difficulty ? C I V I S.
INFORMATION FOR THE PUBLIC.
LAST Monday evening the Light house on
Portland-head, at the entrance of this har
bour, was lighted. This building is built with
(tone and lime, is seventy-two feet high, exclusive
of the lantliern. The following
Direct ions are given for coming .into this harbour.
Bring the light to bear N. N. W. then run for
it,allowing afiuall diltance on the larboard hand
—and when abrealt of the fame, then run N. by
W. This course will give good anchorage from
half a mile to one and a half.
A particular survey will soon be taken, the
public will then have notice of the bearings of
the light from the different rocks and (hoals, to
gether with directions how far vessels may Hand,
either east or weft when beating in.
N. B. No variation for the compass is al
lowed.
New January 31.
The following letters pafled on the 27th and a3th
ult. between the 1 resident of the New-York
Marine Society, and. Captain Durotois,
on his being admitted an Honorary Member of
that body.
Captain Julian Jean Dcrouiois, Commanding
his Mojt Lhrijlian !VlujsJly , s Packet } L,e Franklin.
SIR,
YOUR great humanity and benevolence, the
more diltinguiflied and heightened by dif
trefies under which yourfelf labored, in rescuing
from almoil inevitable deitruc r tion,the remaining
crew of the late unfortunate Captain George
i3ryant, justly entitle you to the highest eiteem
and applause, while every feeling heart mult be
iinpreiled with a high sense of this meritoriotis
ac r tion. 1 he Marine Society of this city, cannot
withold from you their testimonial of piaife and
refpecft: They have therefore elec r fpd vou one
of their honorary Members, and i r 'is'vvith the
greatelt pleasure lhac I enclose your certificate of
admittance, and a copy of their charter and bye
laws. 1 have the honor to be,
With great regard Sir,
our very humble servant,
JAMES FARQUHAR, President
SIR,
T HAVE the honor to acknowledge the receipt
of your letter ot yellerday, acconipanyincr a
certificate ofiny admittance as an honorary Mem
729
Po RTi.)A nt>, January 13
JVtui-York, 28th Jan. 1791.
[Whole No.
-
. —i
ber into the Marine Society, of this city, with
their thartei and b^e-laws.
I cannot enough express my gratitude towards
the generous Americans in genera], and the Ma
rine Society in particular, for rheir remenibrarice
of an a<'lion which was dictated only by common
humanity, and which, by them is far over-rated
by the honor Conferred on me ; for which-1 beo
yon, and the Society, to accept my fincertit
thanks. I have the honor to be, Sir,
Your very humble servant
DUROUT CIS.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TU E S'D AY, "Jan. 18. ' '
Amendments 1o the neiu Revenue Bill 'under ccnji
deration.- t •
THE firft amendment was to add a clause af
ter the words " city, town or village," in
these words, containiag not less than fami
lies.
Mr. White offered fume general observations
on the bill, and on this part in particular, which
he said would in its operation be very disagree
able to a considerable proporiion of the people ;
he wished to have it l'o modified as to leave it as
little exceptionable as poiiible, and if in doing
this a diminution of the sum proposed to be raii
ed by the bill should take place, Hill he thought
there would according to the estimates which
had been laid before the house, be a fufficierft
amount brought into the public freafury—but if
there should nor, he should, he said be willing
in f'ome other way to make up the deficiency ;
and for this pnrpofe, Cong reft may have a Icf
fion as early as September.
He gave notice that in some. future ftageof the
bill he (hould move to have this section recom
mitted.
Mr. Fitzflmons observed, that notwithstanding
all that had been offered to ihew that the rtve
nue proposed to be raised by this bill would not
be wanted, he was Itill of opinion, that no ex
cels of any conf'equence would be produced ; he
objected to the commutation proposed in lieu of
the fpecific duty, and shewed how difadvantage
oufly to the revenue this would operate ; with
refpeift to a perfect definition of what is to be
un.derftood by a city, town or village, he con
ceived that 110 possible evil vvould result ftoin
veiling a discretionary power with some officer
of the United States, to determine what (hall be
underltood by either of the terms.
Mr. Boudinot objected to any alteration in the
feiftion, he thought it fufficiently precise, and
from recurring to certain authorities, he (hewed
that these terms were fufficiently underflood to
preclude the necessity of burthening any officer
with the taik ofdefcribing and determining what
number of inhabitants (hall reflectively consti
tute a city, town or village.
Mr. Livennorefaid, in his opinion, the terms,
" city, town or village," comprehended the
whole and every part of the United States.
Mr. Jaekfon observed, that as two days had
been nearly spent in considering this question,
and it appeared to be impossible to agree in what
constituted a village, he thought it would be to
no purpose to introduce any amendment to the
fe<ftion, but leave it to be determined by a due
course of law ; hefupnofed that questions would
arise to be determined by the judicial authority
ol the United States ; if this fliould not appear
to be agreeable to the liouf'e, he would propose
that it should be referred to the college of phy
sicians—those gentlemen of the squirt, who as
they had attempted to Itjuirt morality and instruc
tion into the minds ot the members, perhaps
may also be able to squirt underrtanding into
the house, on this Aibjedt.
Mr. Parker controverted certain calculations
offered by Mr. Fitzfimons, as to the quantity of
liquor which a ft ill might make. He then en
tered into a general consideration of the bill and
advertingto the discontents in foine of the States,
and the utter aversion of many inhabitants to
&k$ o
1
4 ! ? ' 1: • >cxcifes ; he said he should continue his oppo£-
tion to the lalt.
Mr. Moore offered another modification of the
fe<ftion.
The queflion on adding the words, was put
and negatived.
Mr. Boudinot called the attention of the house
to the fourth fetflion, which authorizes the Pre
sident of the United States, by the advice and
consent of the Senate, to appoint such a number
of officers, as he may think necefTary—he thought
that the most, if not the only exceptionable clause
of the bill ; his opinion was, that the number of
officers fbould be limited. He moved this addi
tion to the fecftion—" provided the number do not
exceed in any county, city, town or village."
He objected to the clause as eftablifbing a dan
gerous precedent.
Mr. Bloodworth seconded this motion
Mr. Parker said lie was in favor of this motion,
becaule he wiflied to have the number of these
officers as small as possible.
Mr. Boudinot's motion occasioned considerable
debate, it was said that the number of officers is
virtually reftrifted by the cotnpenfation to be re
ceived, this allowance cannot be exceeded, so
that the number of officers cannot be encreafed
beyond what may be neceflary—if they are, the
President of the United States muftpay them out
of his own pocket, ortliey must receivealefs sum.
It was said in answer to this, that experience
shews when once the objecfl is obtained in the
appointment of these officers, ways and means
will be found to pay them—in confirmation of
this idea it was said, there arc already two mo
tions on the table for enhancing the compensa
tions to the officers of the revenue.
Mr. Boudinot's motion was negatived.
Several other amendments were proposed by
different members, and rejeifled. Ajourned.
THURSDAY, Jan. 20
The house resumed the consider ation of amend
ments to the new revenue bill.
An amendment was proposed by Mr. Sedgwick,
to strike out part of the 4th feiftion, which ref
pedts the compensations to the infpetfiors, and to
introduce a substitute, to limit their compensa
tions to a certain sum.
Mr. Sherman said he should prefer ftrikingout
the whole clause, and passing the bill without it
—and leave the compensations to be provided for
in a separate bill.
Mr. Gerry proposed an amendment, which he
conceived was not liable to the objections which
apply to the original clause, and to the amend
ment at present under confideratiou, and which
arise from their giving 1 he President the power
of establishing offices.
Mr. Sedgwick stated certain principles of con
ciliation which had induced him to move the
amendment now under consideration. He (hew
ed by a variety of particulars, that the services
will be various, and merit in some cases a much
greater cotnpenfation than in others.
Mr. Ames objedied to the amendment proposed,
on principles of economy,both of time and money.
The time is already so exhausted that there will
be scarcely fufficient in the present felfion, to fi
nifli the bill—and if the amendment is adopted,
it will follow, that in order to make adequate
provision in all cases, you must, in many instan
ces, make that compensation too much. He ur
ged the importance of passing the law with fucli
a power as would enable the Executive to appor
tion the compensations in proportion to the me
rits and services of the refpe&ive officers. This
law is said to be obnoxious to the disapprobation
of the people : It therefore becomes our duty to
make the compensations such, as may command
the services of men of responsibility, in point of
property and • character—men of prudence and
judgment. He conceived the power of apportion
ing the salaries might be left with the Supreme
Executive : Nor did he conceive there was any
thing in the Constitution contrary to this idea.
Gentlemen have cautioned the house against ex
ceeding the powers of .the Constitution by impli
cation ; he supposed that it was equally reprehen
sible to refrain from exercising the full powers,
indisputably vested in the legislature by the con
stitution.
Mr. Boudinot, agreeable to the idea of Mr. Sher
man, moved that the clause {hould be (truck out,
and leave the compensations to be provided for
in a subsequent bill.
This motion was seconded from various quar
ters, and occafiohed a considerable debate.
Mr. Burke said he was sorry to fee such a dis
position in many of the members of thishoufeto
extend the powers of the executive. The excise
bill is universally odious—and gentlemen seem
to be trying to render this more odious, by urg
ing one exceptionable clause after another: He
hoped this clause would be llruck out, and that
the legidature would retain the power of dispos
ing of their own money. He said that his ideas
on the fubjetl had been called chimeras—but
this was a (Vale trick, which has been long prac
tised by those who are in favor of ftrengrhening
the arm of the executive—it was always made
use of in that country whose precedents we often
recur to; but, for his part, no such obfervatiotis
should deter him from placing every poflible
guard round the liberties of the people, and
checking the undue extension of the executive
arm. v
The motion for striking out was carried —
29 to 27
A motion from Mr. Clymer, as a substitute for
the 4th fe(ftion, was then read. This proposed
an inspector for each Hate, atafalary of dol
lars per annum, with power ro appoint fucli num
ber of deputy infpecfiors as they may think pro
per—these deputy inspectors to receive per
cent, on the gross amount of the funis by their:
respectively colle<sed.
Mr. Sedgwick .proposed that this motion fhonld
je referred to a felecft committee, with other
motions now on the table.
Mr. Vining was opposed to referring it to a fe
ledt committee. He said the consequence of a re
ferreuce would be an unneceflary prolongation
of the business. He thought it might as well be
taken up and decided upon at the present time
as any.
Mr. Lawrance was in favor of referring this
motion to a feletfl: committee.
The Speaker observing that it would not be in
order to commit this motion, except in connec
tion with the whole clause, Mr. Clyiner with
drew it for the present.
Mr. Lee then moved, that the bill fliould be
recommitted for the purpose of bringing in a
clause deviling a proper mode of collecting the
revenue.
Mr. Livermore seconded the motion, and in a
few general remarks condemned the bill alto
gether.
Mr. Stone also spoke against the bill, and in
support of the motion for a recommitment.
Mr. Gerry objected to the motion, especially
as it was contemplated to make an arrangement
by which the duties of the officers of the reve
nue, already established, are to be blended with
those t)f the officers to be appointed by this law—
this would deprive the government of that check
which it has in view by this bill.
Mr. Livermore said, that he did not conceive
there was any thing like an excise contemplated
by the bill. The duty proposed on spirits is a
mere duty of import. As to checks, lie did not
think any additional ones were neceflary. If
the officers already appointed to colle<ft the reve
nue are not fufficient for the purpose, let them
be encreafed—but as to any further checks, he
considered them altogether fuperfluous. It is ac
knowledged, said he, on all hands, that the pa
triotism and pumftualiry of the importers has
been such as to produce a very ltridt compliance
with the revenue laws.
Mr. Gerry read several daufes in the hill, to
shew that it was something more than a mere im
port: law.
Mr. Giles said he hoped the bill would not be
precipitated, there are a number of propositions
on the table calculated to amend the several de
feds it contains, he therefore hoped the bill
would be recommitted for the purpose of amend
ing thole deletes ; he fully objected to fending
the bill up to the Senate in a confefledly imper
fe»fl state, and hoped no such precedent would
ever receive the fancftion of the lioufe, especially
in a money hill.
Mr. Sedgwick called the attention of the house
to the procels of this business ; much time was
spent in the difcufiion ofitlaftfeflion—we are now
past the middle of the present ; more than three
weeks have already been spent in the business,
and now at this late period, gentlemen come for
ward with propositions that strike at the very
principles of the bill. He hoped no such mo
tion would take place.
Mr. Vining objected to a recommitment; for
general purposes.
The qneftion on recommitting generally was
loft, 30 to 37.
A motion was then made For recommitting for
a particular purpose, which was loft, 24 to 33.
Adjourned.
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 2
The bill making appropriations for the sup
port of government, for the year 1 791 ; and for
other purposes, was brought in, engrossed, read
the time and pafled.
Sundry petitions were read, and referred to
the heads of departments.
A meflage was received from the Senate, by
Mr. Otis their .Secretary, informing the bouse,
that they have pafled the bill declaring the as
sent of Congrefsto a certain a<ft of the state of
Maryland.
The bill to incorporate the subscribers to the
National Bank, was taken irrto confederation a
lengthy and interesting debatetook place.
Me (Irs. Jackson, Lee, Giles and Madison sup
ported the argument against the bill, princi
pally, as being tinconffitutional—Meflrs. Law
ranee, Sherman, and Gerry severally in favor
of its parting :-iio vote was taken this day on
the fubjccft.
730
Mr. Floyd of the committee of enrolment i
formed tlie house thattlie Kentucky bill was'nr""
femed to the Prelident for his aflent.
Mr. Ames presented the petition of Daniel
Loller, praying to be placed on the pension i;, t
—referred to the Secretary of the Treafurv.
Adjourned.
THURSDAY, Feb. 3.
Sundry petitions were read and referred to the
heads of departments.
Mr. Clymer presented the memorial offundrv
Widows, creditors of the United States—remon
ttratingagainll the funding fyltem—and praying
that they may receive fix per cent. on the »h" 0 le
'amount oftlie demandsagainft the United States
—referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
A memorial of sundry merchants of Philadel
phia, refpetfting the ereillion of piers, at New.
Castle in the Delaware, for the security of the
navigation, was read and referred to the Secre
tary of the Treasury.
A committee consisting of Meffis. Sedgwick
Sturges, and Contee was appointed to report a
bill making a temporary provifionfortlie clerki
and other officers of the federal courts—alfocom
penfation to the jurors attending said courts.
The Bank-bill was further difcufl'ed this dav\
A motion was made by Mr. Williamfon to
mit the bill, for the purpose of amending thefirft
fecflion by prolongingthe time for receiving sub.
fcriptions from Ocftober to April—this motion
occasioned some debate, and was determined in'
he negative—the and Noes being as follow J
'(AYES.
Messrs. Baldwin, Blood-worth, Brown, Burli
Carroll, Coatee, Gals, Giles, Grout, Jack/on, Lu
Vladifon, Matthews, Moore, Sevier, Smith (S. C.
Steele, Stone, Tucker, White, Williamfon.
\NOES. : '
Messrs. Ames, Berfon, Boudinot, Bourne, Cad
•vallader, Clymer, Fitzf'imons, Floyd, Foftcr, Gerry
Oilman,Goodhue, Griffin, Hartley, Hathorne,HdJ!tr t
Huntington, Lawrance, Leonard, Livermore, Mub
lenherg, Parker, Partridge, Rcnfellaer, Schureman,
Scott, Sedgwick, Seney, Sherman, Smith (M.) Syl
vefier, Sinnickfon, Sturges, Thatcher, Trumbull, Vi
n'tng, Wad/worth, Wynkuop. v
Mr. Ames, in a length; supported tli«
onftitutionality of the 1 till—the iurrher consi
deration of which was ] oftponed. Adjourned./,
FRIDAY, Feb. 4
Mr. Heifter pt;efented the petition of Andrew
Holmes : Referred to the Secretary of the Trea
sury.
The petition of John Hollins was read, pray
ing an abatement of the additional dutiesoil Im
ports, which took plaeethe firft Jauuary laft,ari
fing on a cargo, which, tho it had arrived before,
could not be entered till subsequent to that period.
Referred to the Secretary of State.
A report of the Secretary of State, on the fub
jetft of the Filheries, was l aid before the Houle.
by the Speaker, and read by the Clerk—and on
motion, it was voted, that this Report, with a
letter from the French Charge des Affaires, which
accompanied the fame, be sent to the Senate.
The order of the day was called for—which
being the Bank-Bill, the Speaker propoled the
following question : Shall this billpafs ?
A lengthy debate then ensued on the general
principles of the bill—which continued until the
time of adjournment.
PARI S, October 14.
ANEW order of Knighthood is certainly forming in France,
with a view to overturn the new French Co'nftitution. The
fta» ends in eight points, with four Jl curs dc lis in the spaces, sur
mounted with the Crown of France ! In the centre is a medallion
representing on one fide the Marquis de Favras rising from his
tomb, on the other a crofspotcncec. There are rhree ranks of dig
nity in this order. The Cross stars of the fir ft and second differ
from that of the third, for instead of the croix potcncec on the re
verse of a medallion, there are the words— 44 Alpha and Omega."
Many silver-smiths are employed at Paris, Strafburgh, and Milan,
in making these stars. The Grand Master is at Turin; the Trea
surer, M. H. a near relatic*i of M. Barentin, late Keeper of the
.Seals; the Cashier, an ancient Advocate in Council; and the Se
cretary in Chief, an Abbe of great repute. The ribbon is black.
The Knights Commanders aie to wear the star at the bread; the
Matters and Apprentices at the button holes. At present the So
ciety wear them in their pockets (I have fcen two of them) be
caule the hour is not yet come.
This order goes under three or four different names—it is called
the order of Refurre&ion—of the Counter Revolution— ot the
Holy Sepulchre—or. simply of Jerusalem, a denomination that
aflimilates it, together with the black ribbon, to th2t of Malta.
The Cavaliers have proper signs and contra&s, like the Free Ma
sons, and many Members of the National" Assembly have been al
ready admitted into it.
LONDON, Dec. 3.
The Count dc Merci Argcntcau, the impciial Ambafiador at
the Hague, has written a letter to the Marechal Baron de Bender,
dated the zzA of November, which docs him infinite credit.
It breathes throughout the noblest fent'ments of genuine patno
tifm, and is written with firmnefs, tempered by mercy, and ir.aj,
therefore, be justly supposed to have been di&ated by the humane
Leopold, who is infinitely greater as a man, than asan Emperor*
though an excellent sovereign.
The poor Belgic multitude are mentioned as, u fiieep who have
gone astray," and who are to be treated with the utmost mildne s.
To spare, to protest, to forgive, these are the orders given to we
Austrian General.
The members of the parliament of Toulouse, overcome by t c
earnest entreaties of their friends, are gone to St. Sebzftian,
Spain, where they have been received most politely and cord ia )•
By this timely precaution they have, for the prefant, avoi c
the chains with which they were threatened to be loaded, an tprisons which were opening to receive them in their dark ano un-
Wholesome recesses. Vincennes was intended to be their abode
Thelaftnews from Oran, 011 the coast of Barbaiy, are dated
the ill of November. It appears that 60 (hocks of an earthquake
have been felt in that town. .
The Moors, who are under the dominion of the Bey ot Maica
era, took advantage of the calamities of the inhabitants, and attac
cd them with 4 oco men ; bat they were repulsed by 1200 men,
under the command of Count dela Union, tour different uvn^ s '
A Dublin paper mentions, that a gentleman has engaged, tor a
wager, to spin a finer piece of muslin than ever came from the halt
Indies. We hear that a pound of cotton can be spun in such a
manner as to be worth thirty guineaa.
SUCCESSION to the CROWN of POLAND. '
The King of Poland is not like his brother of Fiance, palhve,
inert, and ready to be carried, or driven, whither soever a inulti
tude of felf-conftiiuted demagogues are pleased to command.
While he is willing to submit to good advice, he is himfelf able to
give the belt, and to follow it in pradice ; at the fame time, he
has discernment, courage, and relolution to discover, and to reiift
baneful counfcls. .
When he was told that it was against his interest to permit the
election of aSucceflor to the Crown of Poland, during hts own life,
he nobly replied, " I love my country better than myfelf, and I
am convinced that such a measure is alone calculated to renit the
influence of foreign powers over the councils of the nation, and to
counteract the evils which such an influence has always produced
---the're is, therefore, no room for hesitation."
Notwithstanding some particular circumstances rather unfavor
able to the elector of Saxony, such as his having no heirs male, and
his brother, and others ot his relatives being attached to the house
of Auftrfa, he was unanimously proposed as a successor to the pre
sent King. His Majelly approved the choice, and it is expected
that he will be eleftcd without opposition.
France continued without a National AfTembly
for 175 years, till again called together in May
1789, which was a measure the sovereign would
never have agreed to, were it not that the de
rangement of the public finances, and the inter- j
nal state of convulsion and discontent, made (uch
a ineafure indispensably necessary, When con
voked at the beginning of the 17th century, the
Aflembly were then proceeding to such uncourt
]y lengths, by impeaching the ministers of the
crown for all the evils and commotions which had
for a series of years diftraffied, and almost ruined
the country, that they were difl'olved by the
King, and no more aflembled. The spirit of li
berty was not indeed then so well underltood as
at piefent, nor was the country on the verge of
national bankruptcy—yet is,was on the point of
being involved in all the horrors of a civil war.
LIGHTNING
The Pruflian government has lately pulslifhed
a circumstantial relation of the success which has
attended the use of Earth Baths, in relVoring per
sons apparently killed by lightning. The pro
cess is as follows :
. The person struck must be immediately un
drefl'ed, laid at length in a bed of foft earth, co
vered with a layer of three or four inches of
earth, and from time to time gently sprinkled
with water.
Experience has proved that this process is in
fallible, and that three hours is a fufficient time
to restore animation to thole unfortunate persons
to whom the lightning had solely caused a sus
pension to the pulse.
A Dublin paper has the following strange pa
ragraph : " Last week a gentleman of this city,
who came padenger in the brig Triton, arrived
off paflage, from Philadelphia, relates, that the
Congress had determined to fend an Envoy to the
Great Mogul, for the purpole of negociating an
eftabli/hment in some of the northern provinces
of the Indian Empire, for the benefit of a more
extensive trade. That Rupert de Vifme, a capi
tal merchant of New-York, and late Vice-Preii
dent of Congress, had been appointed to that of
fice, and was to embark in the firft vefl'el bound
to the river Ganges, about the middle of Sept.
The great and good Washington has perfectly re
covered from his late illness ; for which, fire
works were displayed, cannon fired, and every
demonstration of joy and refpedt in the power of
a fenlible and animated people to bellow.
The following is an effectual cure, even in the
most desperate cases for cattle thai have overfed
tliemfelves among wet clover. Take an Egg,
empty the shell, fill it with tar, and throw it un
broken down the throat of the creature : though
ready to burst, within less than five minutes the
swelling will be abated and the danger entirely
over.
GEORGETOWN, Jan. -26.
Extrafl of a letter jrom a correspondent at Lonif
vilte, Kentucky, dated 10th December, J 790.
" You will, before this reaches you, hear of'
the dreadful flanghter made by the Indians. 1
have loft fifteen men out of my company, all of
■which were heads of families, five have left
eight or ten children behind. The loss fell hea
vy on the militia of Kentucky , the disharmony
which existed between the federal troops and
the militia, contributed m uch tq this unfortunate
campaign."
N E W-Y ORK, Feb. i
Extrafl of a later from Paris, Nov. 10, t 790.
" We have at last >eceived the prodigiously
learned pamphlet of Mr. Burke, concerning the
French revolution. It is surprising that a man
of his reputation should have undertaken to ex
pose it towards the decline of his life. Some
friends of liberty have proposed here, to fend him
an address of thanks for his wretched defence of
tyranny, and particularly for having at laftopen-
Ed our eyes, by showing us the Englilh such as
they are, viz. jealous of every thing, except of
the'contidence and friendfliip of other nations.
Whatever may have been the miltakes of the peo
ple of France, before this happy refutation, its
writers have never been lullied with the reproach
of tapporting tyrants and monks. "Yes, France
may glory that it never produced a Burke. Be
fore this i'cribbler presumes to give us leflons of
policy, let him alk the King of England why he
has utarped the right of making war and peace
a right which has not been granted to him by
any law, and which Henb..y Vlilth hiuifelf, tho
a tyrant by trade, never dared to exercise : Let
him alk the Parliament the amount of the money
it receives annually for its humble fubmiflioti to
the orders of the minister : Let him alk the Church
of England, why it affecls an infnlting superior
ity over other religions : Let him aik the people
of England, why Two thirds of its citizens are not
repreiented in Parliament, whilllthe other third
is ihamefully corrupted by the Crown : Laltly,
let him alk how long the trial of Mr. Hastings
is to be deferred—fuch fubjetfts would be worthy
of the pen of a patriot.
" Contempt is the bed weapon against a mad
man like Mr. Burke—to refute him would do
him too much honor. From mere charity, how
ever weadvife him to take a matter of the French
language, that he may comprehend the decrees
of the National Aflembly, with which he is not
better acquainted than with the laws of decency
and true patriotism."
Extrail of a litter from Bourdeaux, Oft. 25.
" The principal merchants of this place met
lalt week to deliberate on the means of obtain
ing redress concerning the tonnage duty laid by
Congrefson French vefl'els, notwithstanding the
treaty of commerce, which fubfiifs between the
two nations.
" They resolved unanimously to write to the I
chambers of commerce of Nantz, of Rouen, and
of other sea pore towns, to request tlieir concur
rence to an address, which is to be prefemed to
the National Aflembly. They desire that the A
mericans, who hitherto have paid no tonnage in
France, may be placed on the fame footing as the
French are in America. Ido not know what will
be the result of this step, but I shall take care to
inform you by the very firft opportunity.
" Great complaints are made here that your
government has appointed two conftils to reside
at Hifpaniola and Martinico. Wedo not even
allow the Spaniards to have canfuls in our colo
nies. Thpse officers are only admitted into coun
tries where commerce is free ; the trade of our
islands is not free ; it it will not be free.
Our policy in this respect does not differ from
that of other nations ; attempt to lend consuls to
Jamaica or to the Havannah, and you will fee
iiovv they will be received.
" The alfignats rife conliderably since the be
ginning of the sales of Church land : it is believ
ed they will soon be at par.
" From this moment we may consider the re
volution as complete. If the ariftoci ats dare to
make new attempts,they will be ruined for ever.''
Yesterday his Excellency the Governor commu
nicated to the legislature a letter from Governor
Chit:cnden, of Vermont, dated Jan. 22d, inclu
ding a certified copy of an act ot that state, for
paying 30,000 dollars to this Hate, and fixing the
boundary of Vermont—Also informing, that
they had appointed the Hon. Nathaniel Chip
man, and Lewis R. Morris, Efqyires, commiflio
liers to negociate the adiniffian of that itate into
the union
BOSTON, Jan. 12.
The militia of Maflacliufetts consists of 50,000
train-band Infantry, 1300 Cavalry, and 1200 Ar
tillery-men—add to these, 23,000 Alarm men, all
armed*for war, the whole will make a body of
75,000 men. The train-band are from 16 to 40
years of age ; the alarm-lift, from 40 to 60.
FROM THE AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER.
THE Bill depending before Congress for in
corporating a Bank, is certainly unconsti
tutional. Whatever powers the State govern
ments did not grant, are expressly to be retain
ed : now there is no power granted in the con
llitution for incorporating any Banking Compa
ny whatever : none are mentioned as entitled
to exclusive rights, but authors for their writings
or discoveries ; and the States are in the daily
habits of granting charters which must interfere
with those of Congress, if both have the power
to grant them. The bank of> North-America
holds its charter under the State of Pennsylvania:
the Congrels have no right to establish another
Bank to its prejudice, or to incorporate another
set of men to carry on Banking, whose notes are
alone to circulate in the public revenues. The
Gotiftitution of the United States expressly fays,
no preference /hall be given by aay regulation
of commerce or revenue, to the parts of one
State over those of another ; of course, no Bank
can be founded to ifiue notes at Philadelphia to
pervade t'.ie Union, to the injury of Banks else
where. Congrefc might as well incorporate an
Eafl-India or afoy other, as a Banking Company.
731
i'tvrt.'iwwi
Philadelphia, Feb, 5.
We hear that the amount of the ♦aliir of tie
Exports from the United Stares, for thirteen
mouths, agreeable to an eiWtnate made at the
office of the Secretary of the Treafmy, is twenty
millions and two hundred thousand dollars..
Some recent accounts from France, via Boftcn,
(late, that the Affignats of France, which had
been down to 8 per cent, discount, have riitn io
par.
It is rather a.curious circnniftauce in tlie noil
tics ot the United States, that the powers of the
legislature, as derived from the confthmion,
should be considered in a less expaufive view bv
some who are appointed to administer the govern
meur, than they are contemplated by any parti
cular (late in the union, or even by those who have
racked their inventions to discover in those pow
ers the latent feeds of tyranny. It may however
afford confutation to the real friends to the li
berties of our country, when they reflec't, than
there are so many motives, whether laudable or
not, in the minds of the administrators of our go
vernment, to found an alarm at the moll distant
appearance of encroachment on the rights of the
Hates, or of individuals.
If the powers of the general government av<!
so limited that they cannot embrace every objeift
with which the eflential interests of the United
States are connected—>-the people, like Mofts of
old, may have a view of the proiriifed land, but
may not enter therein ; or, like Tantalus,-may
.have the waters ot life flowing to their lips, bur
are not fufFered to taste thereof.
> The Constitution of clie United States lias teen
highly complimented at home and abroad—and
from the happy alteration in the circumstances
of our country, under its auspices, the people
have been led to subscribe to the opinicflrTof its
friends ; but if the powers, which the govern
ment has exercised, exceed the limits'prelcribed,
the peoplemuft mod sincerely lament thereftric
tion, and conlider the constitution so far defec
tive ; for it is much better to derive such advan
tages from a constitutional source, than to owe
them to accident, or an illegal adumption ofle
giflative power.—One thing however is certain,
that independent of the Constitution we have no
reason to suppose that the United States would
at this day, have been either in credit, free, or in
dependent.
A correspondent observes on the fabje<ft of the
national debt of Great Britain, 'that if the prin
cipal of it could be paid o(F, it Would be more fa
tal to the Eritifti nation thah the mines of Mexi
co were to Spain—and it is well known the Span
iards loft their spirit, independence and freedom ,
when they opened those sources of the precious
metals.
A Negro Man wa» lately tried at the Court-
House in Fairfax county, Virginia, for killing an
Overseer. It appearing on the trial, that the
Overseer had been guilty of many barbarous acts
towards the Negro, and that the Negro's life was
in danger when he committed the fact, he was
acquitted. This decision has given great fatis
faiftion to the friends ofjuftice and humanity in
that quarter,
Hon. Nicholas Gilman and Jeremiah Smith, Esquire?,
are clefted members of the second House of Reprelentativcs of the
United States.
Extract of a letter from jofepli Fenwick, Esq. Consul of the United
States, at the port of Bourdeaux,dated Nov. 8,1790, addrejjea to his
friend in Providence, (R. I.)
" There is a usage at this port, which allows on all bills of lad
ing, filled with primage and average accuftomeH, ten per cent, on
the freight—fay five to the Capt. for primage, and five to the ship
for average. As this occasions frequent and difagrteable disputes
here, between the Captains and Consignees, and often (übjefts the
freighter to a charge he is not aware of, I beg leave to fuggeff,
that it would be well to itipulate on the bill of lading what is to
be allowed, to either the Captain or Ship, over and above the
freight. As this is not generally known in America, and the in
formation may interefl your merchants in general, I beg that it
may be inserted in the different newspapers throughout the United
States.''
APPOINTMENTS
The Governor of this Commonwealth, on the
ift inft. made the following appointments.
The Hon. EdwardShi[)pe?i, Esquire, one of the
Judges of the Supreme Court, in the room of the
late Hon. George Bryan, Esq.—The Hon. James
Biddle, Esq. Judge of the Court of CommoftPlens
—and Charles Biddle, Ef*j. Prothonctary of faicl
Court
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
A Correspondent who handed us remaiks on the indecorum of
wearing Hats, cocked, as well as floucheri, in the Gallery of the
House of Representatives, even while the Chaplain is officiating,
is informed, that agreeable to King Charles' rule, we think, it best
to " MAKE NO COMPARISONS."
As to the Dogs, who accompany the Auditors of the debates,
and sometimes disturb.the House by their yelping, we refer our
correspondent to their owners.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT
6 pr. Cents 17/ 17/3. pr. /
3 pr. Cents 8/9 of.
Defered 6 pr. Cents
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 16JI 80 do
Indents 8/9 9/ 45
N. and S. Carolina, debts, 1»/. n/6. 67k da
issnu
86£ pr. cent.
45 do -
9/ 9/' 45 . dor
MR. FENNO, i
THAT the sentiments contained in the sol-
lowing PROTEST may be more generally known
throughout the Union, yoir are requested to in
sert it in the Gazette'ok ibeUni:ed States.
The Minority on the Vote refpelling the Rifolution s
of the House of Representatives on the fubjett of
the Excifs Dill, now depending in the Congress of
the United States, having had permifton to enter
on the journals the reasons of their dijfent, have ac-
cordingly introduced the following :
ifi.T) KCAI'SE, the piecedent being once eftablilhed, that if is
II rxpedicnt foi the Stale Legislatures to enter into legisla
tive icfolutions. refpefling the aas and proceedings of Congress,
would be attended with the mod fatal confeo|uences to the peace
and tranquility oftheunion; for under the specious and seducing
plea, that is now alledgcd, of protefling from invasion the liber
ties of the people, an opposition to every a3 of the federal go
vernment, for impofwg taxes, might be juftified; now the state
lcgiflatures are chosen for the particular objefli of municipal jurtf
diflion ; the people have never committed to them an agency in
the bufintfs of federal legislation, rror have inverted them with au
thority to oppose legislative barriers to the discretion ot Congress,
in the exerrife of their constitutional powers ; for they mufl ne
ceflaril" be incompetent thereto, lor want of the colleifed wisdom
and ext'enfive information that the complicated affairs of the union
require.
2d. Because we cannot but express, in language of unqualified
disapprobation, the impropriety of the House of Representatives
of Pcnnfylvania, difcufling the merits of a report ot the Secretary
of the Treasury, at the very period that Congress was employed
in deliberation on the fame fubjeft ; and of foreboding the mlf
chicf that might enlue from its adoption, by the federal iegiflature;
this was drawing an inference of a necelfary perversion of power,
to the public detriment, from the exercil'c of their conftitutior.al
authorities; which was ungenerous, as the poflible sbufeof power
is equally incident to every trust; and as amon;ll the acts ot Con
gress there is no evidence on record that canjuftify so dreary and
unfavorable an anticipation of their acts, the intentions (hould be
never malicioufiy prejudged, nor (hould crnfure be implicated,
without the proof, or even appearance, of error or criminality;
the federal government merits kinder treatment! han to be brought
into disrepute from a mere apprehcnfion of meditated danger.
3d. Becaufc, on a fuppoGtion that Congress, regardless of their
duty to their country, and their condiments, should pass acts,
which contravene the constitution, by encroaching on those pow
ers, which the (fates have ixclufively retained, it is presumable
that there would be found such inflexible integrity and indepen
dence in the federal judiciary, so to expound the laws, as to pre
vent their being carried into execution; bcfides, an additional
security and salutary check, arifeoutof the enlightened patriotism
of our Chief-Magiftrate, who, we may reft allured, will never
fanftion a legiflauve ast, that indicates an encroachment on the
reserved rights and powers of the people.
4th. Becau(e,the federal and ilate governments, are, in their
refpeftive characters, agents andtrulUes of the people, totally dif
tinft from, and independent of, each other, instituted with dif
ferent powers, and designated for different purposes. Neither has
any right to interfere with theconftitutional acts of the other ; and
(bould either attempt to enlarge its sphere of jurisdiction, at the
expence of the other, there is an ultimate appeal to the sentiments
and fanftion of the people, who are their common condiments,
their common superior, and their common umpire. This res
ponsibility to, and dependence on the people, may not only be
deemed an effectual guard against the dangerous and improper ex
ercise of the legiflativetrufls, but as a fufficient controul, to prevent
undue encroachments on each other's authorities.
sth. Because, from the relative situation and circumftarices of
the federal and state governments, with refpeft to weight and in
fluence, there is too much reason to apprehend danger, from the
encroachments of the latter, on the acknowledged rights and con
{litutional powers of the former. The federal government, in its
infancy, encountered many difficulties, arising principally from
the ftrongrer attachments and predilection of influential charac
ters to their Hate anthorities. But its operations have been so in
strumental in meliorating the situation of the country, aggrandiz
ing it? interests, and rendering the people happy, that many of its
warmed enemies in this and other States, hare abandoned their
former propensities, and become its firm friends and supporters.
But there is still much to apprehend from an undue interference
of the state legislatures on the proceedings of Congress ; a disposi
tion to which, arises out of the qualities inherent in, and attached
to, all public bodies, but which will be much matured, from a
precedent being established, by so powerful a state as Pennsylvania
—and ftiould other states follow the example, of transmitting to
their delegates in Congress, legislative refolytions, on the various
matters that may be depending in that body, there is too much
reason to believe they would have an improper bias on the minds
of the members, who might pay too great a deference to opinions
fanftioned by such high and refpeftable authority ; this would
tend to disarm the federal government ot its power, and reduce it
to a slavish dependence on the state legislatures.
It would give rife to a legislative warfare betwixt the federal
and municipal governments, and instead of a system of legislation
that should be founded on a spirit of mutual conceflion and ac
commodation, which connects by ties of sympathy the various
interests of the union, it would flow from the discordant and dif
tinft views and wifhe? of the separate members of the . confede
racy.
6th. Because in the interference of the House of R<?pref ntatives.
there exists such a palpable inconfiftencv of conduct and dere
liction of principle ; for whilst they express the mod fearful ap
prehension of an attack on the liberties of the people, from the
operation of an excise bill, now depending before Congress, their
patriotifrn has not extended so far, as to propose the repeal of an
ast of this State of a similar nature, but wh ch involves powers
far more obnoxious and oppi eflive to the people, than those which
are in the contemplation of the ast of Congress.
The people have for a long series of years, submitted to this spe
cies of taxation, without murmur or complaint, and gave a pre
ference to it at a time when the fifcal administration was not pref
ftd for revenue. We have too much refpett for the house to har
bour a wifti of tainting their resolutions by a suspicion of infidu
ousdefign; the fame confidcration induces us to regard their
conduct in this instance, with very serious concern.
7th. Because it is well known that government, in a great mea
sure is founded on, and supported by. public opinion ; it there
fore becomes necelTary, for those who are favorably inclined to
the federal government, to cherish every sentiment, propitious to
its existence : but these resolutions, cloathed in the garb of legis
lative suspicion and distrust, mult have a strong tendency, to en
list on the fide of oppofuion to federal authority, lome of the moll
popular prejudices ; and thereby to diffufe among the people, a
want of confidence in the wisdom and purity of the federal
councils; the feeds of dilTention and jealousy being once sown
(without timely care and precaution to prevent it) they will in
sensibly ripen into a harvest of difafFettion.
Bth. Because, as the federal government is intended as a bond
of union, to cement the States together by a tie of general interest,
and a general fvftem of legislation, equally operative on every
member of the confederacy, it is neccflarv that the fulleft con'-
derce should be evinced of a general disposition to acquiesce io
the afls of federal legislature; the Stale governments, like the ra
dius of a circle,have a common centre in the federal government :
,he further they individually depart from it, the more they ret
necfively recede Irom each othe-, and the further they remove
from the influence of that authority, which can alone prevent the
dreaded disunion of the subordinate parts. Now ll one Slate in
terferes in the proceedings of the federal government, 11 not only
b ct ra>s an indiipofition to comply with the result ot the federal
arrangements, but induces an ide.i of the exertion of an undup
influence; which mud necedarilv inflame the prejudices ot the
djfaff fled, and create alarms »nd jealousies n the other States of I
the union. , , . _ ...
qth. Bccaufe, the people of this State, in ratifying the federal
constitution, made a solemn compact with the peopleof the other
Sates to veil certain Ipecific, and defined powers, iri the fedetal
government, tor thecommon good of the union.
Whilst the government ot the United States, confines itfelf with
in conftituiional hounds it is incompatible with the duties arifan j
out ot its engagements, for a State legislature, to interfere by
legislative resolutions, in opposing the exeicife of their powers ;
for however anxious a State may be to disengage itfelf from its fe
de-al obligation, yet it cannot effect it, without the confcnt of the
other States, which are joint parties to the contrafl.
Under the influence of the ideas exprefled in the foregoing ob
servations, and as friends to the conftituiional and acknowledged
rights of the federal and State governments, we feel ourWves cat
led u; on foltnmly to enter o«r reasons ot difieut, against so fatal
a precedent, as that eltablithed by the resolutions of the House of
Reprefent.itives, and to deprecate the pernicious consequences
that may arif.- therefrom. WILLIAM BINGHAM,
JAMES COLLINS,
JONATHAN ROBERTS,
HENRY TYSON,
]OHN CHAPMAN,
WILLIAM M'PHERSON,
BENJAMIN MARKLEY,
THOMAS LILLY,
JOHN STEWART,
RICHARD DOWNING,
DANIEL CLYMER.
This day is publijltcd,
By C arey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22, in Fhont-St ieei,
The American Museum,
For JANUARY, 1791-
CON TENTS.
ORIGINAL ARTICLES.
PROSE.
METEOROLOGICAL obfeivations, made in Philadelphia,
December 1790
Observations on the weather and diseases in do.
Exports from Baltimore, from Oft. 1, 1789, toOft. 1,1790
P:an of a Ruflia voyage
Number of fouls in the territory of the united states, north weft
of the river Ohio, in 1790
" I have seen—and I have not seen." By the late gov. Livingfton
Series of letters from a gentleman to his friend
Observations 00 gaming
Sketch of the nature and causes of diseases—explained upon lcien
tific principles
SELECTED ARTICLES
Letter from general Varnum to his lady—written a few days be-
fore his death
Progress to bankruptcy of an honed tradefmar.
Cursory thoughts on duelling
£xtrafts from the introdu6lory le&ure of the hon. James Wilson
efq. L. L. D.
Anecdote of Thomas Paine
Anecdote of an American, at a theatre in London
Bon mot, refpe&ing the king's evil
Bon mot, refpe&ing a musical performer
Some account of the shape, manners and customs of the Hottentots
Calamitous events entertaining to the mind. By the rev. Joseph
Lathrop
EfTay on appearing what we neither are, nor wish to be
Curio, a chara&er. By miss Bowdler
EfTay on the influence of religion in civil society. By the rev.
Thomas Reefe, A.M. pastor of the presbyterian church at
Salem (S. C.)
Revolutions of Englifti literature. Tranfhted from the Italian
Curious particulars discovered by the microscope
On the improvement of worn-out land. By Richard Peters, esq.
Expcnfe, culture, and profit of half an acre of hemp. By rnr.
Curvcn
Expense and product of an acre of hops
Mode of destroying canker-worms, and of preventing the blading
of grain. By John Cufhing
Precautions against fire
Mode of purifying tallow, to make candles
A lingular accident
Method of tempering edge-tools, of too brittle a quality
Method of checking the too tree pcrfpiration of the hands
Lift of the moll material articles exported from'the state of New-
York, in July, Auguft,and September, 1790
Arrivals at the port of New-York, from January 1, 1790, to Ja.
nuary 1, 1791
Lift of the sea-vessels, which arrived in the port of Philadelphia,
from January 1, to January 1, 1791
Account of the patients in the Philadelphia dispensary, from De
cember 1, 1 789, to December 1,1790
Bill of moitality, tor the town of Salem, for the year 1790
Extra&s from the ccnfus of the inhabitants of MalTachufetts
Census of the inhabitants of the state of New-York
Census of the 'nhabitauts of the city and county of New-York
Statement of the tonnage of veflels, entered in the united states,
from O&ober 1, 1789, tp September 30, 1790 Jf
Obfcivations on the artifices of animals. From Smellie's philo
sophy of natural history
The negro equalled by few Europeans. Translated from the French
Anecdote
Charter of Rhode-Island.
Verses, addressed to the trustees of the college and academy o!
Philadelphia. By the rev. Nathaniel Evans
The hermit's vision. By the rev. Thomas Penrofe
Inftru&ions to a porter. By mr. Bedingfield
Verses on the new year
Hymn, written for Sunday-schools.
The nest
Invitation to the country. By Lefbia
triendlhip. By the rev. Thomas Penrofe
Home—?.n extempore effufion
Song, written in Maryland, during the late war.
Philadelphia, Feb. 1, 1791
Wanted a Ground Rent, of
15 or 20J. pr. annum, wellfecu'red, Enquire of
732
PROSE
POET R Y
By William Hayley, esq.
Jos 1 ah Hewes,
Law#. ance Seckel, J
Ow en Jones, jun'r.
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERV.
THE Managrrs as the STATE LO T i ERY, present the Public
with the Firt! C'afs of the Majfachufttts fcmi-annual State Lot
tcry, which will coinmencedrawuigin the RcpreJcntctneVLhamLer.
in Button, on the Seventeenth of March next, or fooncr, it the
Tickets (hall be disposed of.
SCHEME>
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125,000 Dollars, to be paid in the,following Prizes, lupj. ft io 4
<ledudion ot twelve andan half per cuit. lor the ule of the Com.
raonwealth.
Prizes.
1 of
2
3
6
10
3°
80
90
100
120
161
2 00
7565
8388 Prizes.
.1661 a Blanks.
25.000.
TICKETS may be had of the several Managers, who wil
Ipay the Prizes on demand—of the TREASURER of the Common
wealth—of WHITE, at his Book-Store, Franklin's-Head
Court-Street, and at other places as usual,
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun. *|
DAVID COBB, 1
SAMUEL COOPER, ). Managers.
GEORGE R. MINOT, '
JOHN KNRELAND, j
Boflon. July 28. 8790.
'pf* Tickets in the above Lottery are to' tefo'd ly Stephen Auffirt,
corner of Front and Pin: Streets, Philadelphu.
PLEASE TO NOTICE
tCy FOR the-accommodation of those who mould
tiiijh to be,come Adventurers in the Firjl Class of the
IWAssACHUSETTsSbM i-ANNUAL ST atp Lottery,
letters, port paid, direCted to Samuel Cooper, at
his Office, North fide State-House, Boston, enclaftng
Philadelphia, New-York or Boston Bank-Billy, or
other good Bills, will he particularly attended to, and
Tickets forwarded immediately upon the receipt of
fitch letters.
Boston, Dec. 22, 1790.
N. B. A Lift of Prizes will he deposited with the
Printer hereof, immediately ester the drawing is
compleated. 71 iaw tf
The Managers of the STATE LOTTERY assure the
public, that the fir Clefs of the Semi-anuual Lottery will pofitive
lv eommeiice drawing on the day appointed, viz. the 17th of
March next. As the Managers have in their fevernl Monthly Lot
teries commtnCrd drawing at the h<iur assigned, £0 they are deter
mined to be equally as punctual in this. Jan. 95.
New Line of Stages.
THE Subscriber has eftabliflicd a line of STAGES from Hart
ford to Bonon, by way of Norwich and Providence, which
will run thro twice a week during the Winter Season, and three
times a week during the Summer Season.
Carriages, Horses, and careful Drivers are provided.
Pafl'engers pay three Pence per Mile, and are allowed 14 pound
Baggage each. Extra Baggage pays at the rate of three Pence
per Mile lor every 150 wt. As the Mail is to go in these Stage's
for the year 1791, fixed hou-rs for darting from the refpeftive Stage
Houses is abfoiutely necefrary—from which there can be no devia-
tion,
The Stage for the Eallward leaves
Hartford Mondays and Thursdays,
Norwich Tuefdavs and Fridays,
Providence- Wednefdavs and Saturdays,
For the Weft ward, leaves Boston Mondays and Thursdays,
Providence Tuesdays and Fridays,
Norwich Wednesdays and Saturdavs.
J E S S E BROWN.
—lwgm
The seat of the late governor
L ItV 1 N G S T 0 N,
lunate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
Morris Town. The farm contain;, between 90 and 100 acres of
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about 19 acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
the farm a very large collection of various kinds of the choicest
fruit trees, See. in full bearing; the house is large 1 , convenient,
well built and 'in very good repair*.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars.
Neiu-York, Jan. 1791.
Forty Dollars Reward.
LOST by theSubfcribcr, on the 12th day of January 1791, be
tween Penollopon and Freehold, in the county of Monmouth,
and State of New-Jersey, the following Certificates, illued by the
said State, to sundry Soldier l , for the three-fourth parts of the de
preciation of theit*pay ; all of which are signed by John Sievcns,
jun. Treasurer, and counteriigned by James Ewlhg, Auditor, viz.
No. Dated, Payable to Amount.
323 June 26, 1781, Powel Alston, £.60 8 9
399 January 27, do. Jacob Long, 30 16 10J
593 June 29, do. Oliver Cromwell, 60 8 9
664 June 30, do. James Kinfey, ,57 12 6
740 July 2, do. George Long, 5 4 4;?
869 july 4, do. Ananias Clark, 312 aj
938 J lily 30, do. Samuel Dotey, 13.5 7
1060 March 20, 1782, Kphraim Patten, 31 13 9
1128 August 8, do. James Coulfton, 30 7 i°\i
11 33 August 8, do. Moses Thompson, 150 5
123° January 27, 1783, Asa Gilderfleaves, 63 7 5Z
1237 Aprilg, do. Michael Lane, 61 1.6 ioj
841 July 4, 1781, James Clark, 417 'i°k
Any perfoti who may have found the fold Certificates, and will
return them to the living at Penollopon aforelaid, (hall re
ceive the above reward ; and in proportion for any part of them
which may be returned.
All persons are hereby cautioned against purcbafmg any of the
above Certificates, as payment is stopped at the public offices.
If any of them fhouid be offered for Calf, the peiTon to whom they
are offered is requeftcd to flop the fame, and give notice thereof
to their humble fervanti ' KENNETH HANKINSON.
Monmouth County, Ncz» - JerJey, Jan. 15, 1 791.
Dollars.
10000 is,
3000 are
2 coo
1000
s°°
aop
100
53
4°
20
10
8
Norwich, Dec. 14, 1790.
TO BE SOLD,
$oUa.Ts n
ICftOO
-1
6-o»
5?°3
4S°°
4 en,
3&9<?
■ sflW
6(h8»
125000
80 3m