L. -J
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATWJ' DAYS' !SY 7OHN F£\>.\'o, No. '69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 86, of Vol. ll.] Wednesday. February 25,
iOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STA TES,
ON THE NATIONAL BANK
IT has been questioned by -foirie, whether the
act of Congress, for eitablifhing the Bank cf
the United States, is conllit.utional ; but it it is
a iifefiil mean for carrying into effect any of the
powers specially veiled in tiie government of the
United States, and does not infringe the rights
of any individual state or person, on what prin
cipal can it be unconllitutional ?
Congress are expressly authorised to make all
laws that shall be necell'ary and proper for carry
ing into execution all the powers veiled in the
government of the United Stares ; and the means
for efFeiliing these purposes not being specially
pointed out, is it not left to the discretion of
Consrefs to chufe the moll, fit and proper means ?
AndTif incorporating a Bank is by them judged
a necefl'ary and proper measure to carry into ef
fect the fil'cal operations of the Union, why is not
that as confident with the confutation as any
other mean ? The incorporation is only enabling
a number of persons to aid the government, and
improve theirown property with greater ease and
feciiriry than they could do in their individual
capacity : Their bye-laws will be only rules to
govern themselves in the management of their
own affairs.
This artificial person will be fubjedt to the go
vernment of the laws as much as a natural per
son—it may be retrained from doing injury, tho
its rightsinay not be violated : And will not the
time limited for its duration be short enough to
make a' fair trial of its utility ?
Legiilative power is not absolutely requisite to
create a Corporation—it is a power often exerci
fedby the Executive Magistrate, without any po
sitive law, or other express authority to autho-
nze it,
The ufefulnefs ofßanks has been ling experi
enced in England, and other parts of Europe.
The Bank of England was eitabliihed by act of
Parliament to aid the national finances, when
other efforts to fupporc the public credit had pro
ved ineffectual.
The establishment of a Bank was thought ne
ceiiary, and found ufeful in aid of the finances
of the United States, in the time of the late war.
And Banks have been resorted to, and likewile
found ufeful under the prefentgovernment; and
will doubtless be found mote neceiiary, as the
demands for money enci and the occasions
for the circulation thereof, become more exten
sive.
The celebrated Mr. Burkf., speaking of the
Bank of England, fays, " i hat in England, not
" one (hilling of paper money of any description
" is received but of choice ; that the whoW has
" had iis origin in cafli actually deposited ; and
" that it is convertible at pleasure, in aninftant,
" (without the least loss) into cash again.
" Indeed it might be ealily lhevvn, that our pa
" per wealth, inltead of leflening the real
" has a real tendency to increase it inflead of
" being a substitute for money, it only facilitates
" its entry, its exit, and its circulation ; that
" is a symbol of prosperity, and not a badge of
" difViefs."
Such is the conllitution, and (if properly ma
naged) fueh will bethe operation of the Bank of
the United States. It has been objetfted, that
funded securities being deposited as part of the
flock, will not secure thecredit ofthe Bank Bills :
But a large funi in specie will likewile be depo
lited—which, together with theiritereft, payable
on the securities quarter-yearly, will make a fund
fufficient to support as much bank paper as will
be neceflary for common circulation ; and it there
Ihould at any time be a demand on the Bank be
yond the amount of the specie deposited, the
money may be raifedby sale of the securities, at
I he market price.
If the proprietors of the flock underftaiul then
own inierelt, they will not subject thcni.eives to
inconvenience, or risque, by illuing too much
paper. The deposits of specie that will be made
by she United States will also give great aid to
the credit of the bank. Some have supposed that
the stockholders will make too much profit by it,
but that is uncertain—they take upon themselves
the management and risque, and il it is profita
ble to them, it will likewile be so to the United
States, vyho will be part owners of the (lock.
It will not infi inpe the rights of the individual
States, for tliev will be at liberty to make like
inffitutions within their refpedtive jurisdictions.
111 cases wherein t'te United States and indivi
dual States have a right to legijlate,¥efpe>iling the
fame objeAs, (for inlVarice,' in drawing revenue
from the fame Sources, for ilteir different f>tnpo~
les) their laws will not oppt)le each other. Both
irovernmSnts aue inffituted by the people For their
benefit—iand so long as each, exercise their trust
with wiSdom and fidelity, there will be no dan
ger of an interference <jf their jurisdictions. ,
No rights of individual persons will be infring
ed by this acft ; but all the citizens of the United'
States will (hare in the public benefits (derived
from it ; arid many of them \yill derive further
benefit from it in their commercial and other em
ployments.
Does it not evidently appear, from the forego
ing remarks, that a well regulated Bank will be
a lieceflary and uteful mean to aid the fifcal ope
rations of the United States : and that the act of
Consrels eftablifiiinjy one is therefore conftitu-
O O
on al ? „
The Bank bills, which are receivable only of
choice, and for convenience, and may at any.time
be exchanged for real money, are of a very dif
ferent nature from thole bills of credit mention
ed in the constitution, the einiffion whereof is
prohibited to the several Hates, and not delega
ted to the government of the United States. The
milcliievous confequnces of that kind of paper
currency has been severely felt by these states ;
therefore it was thought inexpedient to autho
rize the introduction of it in future in any cafe
A CONSTITUTIONALIST.
whatever
FROM THE NEW-HAMPSHIRE SPY.
" What reproachsth reafou more than to aB con
trarieties."
THERE is, as I have heard some one express
it, "an eternal fitnefs of things' which I
apprehend to be the perfection of beauty. The
contrary may be seen in a minister whose beha
viour is diametrically bppofueto the dotfxinehe
preaches. In a judge who cannot diftinguiih be
tween right and wrong. In a justice of the peace
who is forward to break those laws which he was
appointed to. have duly observed. In short, all
men in refpedrable offices shew lis the contrary,
when rhey are immoral in their conduct vicious
in their practice—unfaithful wlren they promise
obscene and profane in their conversation—
a)) d—when they are above doing the duties ot
their office—or when the duties of their office
are above their comprehension, —Some will alk—-
Are there any luch incongruities in this Itate . 1
think there are-In this state and every state and
kingdom in the world, and forever will be, till
mankind are as willing to be govern'd as to go
vern —The evil cannot be wholly remedied—yet
I have not the least doubt but those in office may
behave with so much prudence, as to do credit
to the office which does them honor. B.
PROM THE VERMONT GAZETTE
IN proportion as profpedis open for public ho
nors, in the fame ratio'anxiety rises.
He that is a candidate for public honors, is a
candidate for public mortification.
He who has risen to the pinnacle, has nought
to fear but a fall. ''.
He who electioneers for his friend, becaule lie
is his friend, is oathlefs.
Lust of power, and intoxication of glory, lead
to trloriousand inglorious deeds.
° CLERGYMAN.
DURING Lord North's administration, a chf
pute happened one evening at the Smyrna whe
ther the premier had any honor. A gentleman,
who had been heartily piqued at a refulal from
Lord North, would not allow him any fliare of
it ; whillt another as warmly espoused his having
pretentions to every virtue. The fubjeift created
much wanntli on both fides, and might perhaps
have terminated very disagreeably to one or other
of the parties, had not one of the company play
ed the mediator, and very archly said, —" There
was no doubt of his honor, who had porcliafed
half the honor of the nation." A general laugh
ensued, at which my Lord's advocate seemed net
tled, and, turning upon his heel, said, —" It was
a ptirchafe very calily made."
757
ANECDOTE
[Whole No. 190.]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, Feb'. 2.
The BANK BILL under confederation..
MR. MADISON began with a general resview of
the advantages and di fad vantages-os banks.
The former he stated to confi.ft in,firft,the aids they
afford to merchants who can thereby push their
mercantile operations farther with thfefaine capi
tal.—2d.The aids to merchants in paying punctu
ally the customs.—3d. Aids to the government iu
complying punctually with its engagements,
when deficiencies or delays happen in the reve
nue.—4th. In diminifliing uf'ury.—sth. In lav
ing the wear of the gold and lilver kept in the
vaults, and reprefenied by notes.—6th. In fa
cilitating occafiona! remittances from different
places where notes happen to circulate. Theef
fecft of the proposed bank, in railing the value
of stock, he thoughf, had been greatly overrated.
It would no doubt raifethatof the stock fubferib
ed into the bank; but could have little effeCl on
stock in general, as the interest on it would re
main the fame, and the quantity taken out of the
market would be replaced by bank stock.
The principal diladvantages confitted in, ifr.
banishing the precious inetals, by fnbftituting
anotlier medium to perform their office : This
effect was inevitable. It was admitted by th£
nioft enlightened patrons of banks, particularly
by Smith 011 the Wealth of Nations. The com
mon anf'wer to the objection was, that the money
banished was only an exchange for something
equally valuable that would be imported in re
turn. He admitted the weight of this observa
tion in general, but doubted whether, in the pre
fe»t habits of this country, the returns would
not be in articles of no permanent ufeto it. 2d.
Expoling the public and individuals to all the
evils of a run on the bank, which would be par
ticularly calamitous in so great acountry as this,
and might happen from various causes, as falfe
rumours, bad management of the institution, &ji
unfavorable balance of trade from fliort crops, &c.
It was proper to be considered alfb, that the
mod important of the advantages would be bet
ter obtained by feweral banks properly distri
buted, than by a single one. The aids to com
merce could only he afforded at or very near the
feat of the bank. The fame was trhe of aids to
merchants in the payment of customs. Antici
pations of the' government would also be niolt
convenient at the different places where the in
terest of the debt was to be paid. The cafe in
America was different from that in England : the
interest there was all due at one place, and the
genius of the monarchy favored the concentra
tion of wealth and influence at the metropolis.
He thought the plan liable to other objections r
Tt did not make so good a bargain for-the public
as was due to its iuterefts- The charter to the
bank of England had been granted for it years
only, and was paid for by a loan to the govern
ment on terms better than could be elfewliere
got. Every renewal of the charter had in like
manner been purchased ; in some instances, at a
very high price. The fame had been done by
ihe banks of Genoa, Naples, and otherlikebanks
of circulation. The plan was unequal to the
public creditors—it gave an undue preference to
the holders of a particular denomination of the
public debt, and to those at and within reach of
ihe feat of government. If the fubl'criptions
should be rapid, the diflant holders of paper
would be excluded altogether.
In making these remarks on the merits of the
bill, he had°referved to himfelf, he said, the right
to deny the authority of Congress topafsir. lie
had entertained this opinion from the dare of
the constitution. His impression might perhaps
be the stronger, because he weil recollected that
a power to grant charters of incorporation had
been proposed in the general convention and re
-3 Is the power of eftablifiiing an incorporated bank
among the powers veiled by the constitution in
the legillature of IHe United States? This is the
question to be examined.
QAfter some general remarks on the limitations
of all political power, he took notice of the pe
culiar manner in which the federal government
is limited. It is not ageneral grant, out of which
particular powers are excepted—it is a grant of
particular powers only, leaving the general mass
in other hands. So it had been understood by
its friends and its foes, and so it was to be inter
preted.
As preliminaries to a right interpretation, he
laid down the following rules :
An interpretation that destroys the very cha
ra<fteriftic of the government cannot be just.
Where a meaning is clear, the conferences,
whatever they may be, are to be admitted—
where doubtful, it is fairly triable by its conse
quences.
In controverted cases, the meaning of the par
ties to the inftrunient, if to be collected by rea
sonable evidence, is a proper guide.
Cotemporary and concurrent expositions are a
reasonable evidence of the meaning of the par
ties.
In admitting or rejecting a conflrutflive au
thority, not only the degree of its incidentality
to an express authority, is to be regarded, but
the degree of its importance also ; lince on this
will depend the probability or improbability of
its being left to conftru<stion.
Reviewing the constitution with an eye to
tliefe positions, it was not poflible to discover in
it the power to incorporate a Bank. The only
clauses under which such a power could be pre
tended, are either—
1. The power to lay and colled; taxes to pay
the debts, and provide for ihe common defence
and general welfare : Or, - ✓
2. The power to borrow money on the credit
of the United States : Or,
3. The power to pass all laws neceflary and
proper to carry into execution those powers.
The bill did not come within the firft power.
It laid no tax to pay the debts, or provide for the
general welfare. It laid no tax whatever. It
■was altogether foreign to the fubje<ft.
No argument could be drawn from the terms
" common defence, and general welfare." The
power as to these general purposes, was limited
to acfts laying taxes for them ; and the general
purposes themlelves weie limited and explained
by the particular enumeration subjoined. To
■underltand these terms in any sense, that would
juftify the power in question, would give to Con
gress an unlimited power ; would render nuga
tory the enumeration of particularpowers ; would
fupercede all the powers refervedto the state go
vernments. These terms are copied from the
articles of confederation ; had it ever been pre
tended, that they were to be understood other
wise than as here explained ?
It had been said that " general welfare" meant
cases in which a general power might be exerci
sed by Congress, without interfering with the
powers of the States; and that the eftablifliment
of a National Bank was of this fort There
■were, he said, several answers to this novel doc-
trine
x. The proposed Bank would interfere so as
indirectly to defeat a State Bank at the fame '
place 2. It would directly interfere with the
rights of the States, to prohibit as well as to eftab
lifti Banks, and the circulation of Bank Notes.
He mentioned a law of Virginia, actually prohi
biting the circulation of notes payable to bearer.
3. Interference with the power of the States was
110 conftitutiotial criterion of the power of Con
gress. If the power was not given, Congress
could not exercise it ; if given, they might exer
cise it, altho it should interfere with the laws, or
even the constitution of the States.— 4. If Con
gress could incorporate a Bank, merely because
the act would leave the States free to establish
Banks also ; any other incorporations might be
xnade by Congress. They could incorporate com
panies of manufacturers, or companies for cutting
canals, or even religious societies, leaving simi
lar incorporations by the States, like Stare Banks
to themselves: Congress might even establish re
ligious teachers in every parish, and p?y them
oilt of the Treasury of the United States, leaving
other teachers unmolelted in their functions.
These inadmissible confeqiiences condemned the
controverted principle.
The cafe of the Bank established by the for
mer Congress, had been cited as a precedent.
This was known, he said, to have been the child
of neceflity. It never could be juftified by the
regular powers of the articles of confederation.
Congress betrayed a consciousness of this in re
commending to the States to incorporate the Bank
also. They did not attempt to protect the Bank
Notes by penalties against counterfeiters. These
were reserved wholly to the authority of the
States.
The second clause to be examined is that, which
empowers Congress to borrow money.
Is this a bill to borrfl/w money ? It does not
borrow a fliilling. Is there any fair conftru<slion
l>y which the bill can be deemed an exercise of
the power to borrowmoney ?—The obviousmean
ing of the power to borrow money, is that of ac
eepting it ftoni, and stipulating payment to tliofe
who are able and "milling to lend.
To fay that the power to borrow involves a
power of creating the ability, where there inay
be the will, to lend, is not only eftablifliinga dan-
gerous principle, as will be immediately fliewn,
but is as forced a construction, as to fay that it
involves the power of compellingthe will, where
there may be the ability, to lend.
The third clause is that which gives the power
to pass all laws necefl'ary and proper to execute
the fpecified powers.
Whatever meaning this claufemay have, none
can be admitted, that would give an unlimited
discretion to Congress.
Its meaning mull, according to the natural and
obvious force of the terms and the context, be
limited to means necejfary to the end, and incident
to the nature of the fpecified powers.
The clause is in fa (ft merely declaratory of
what would have resulted by unavoidable impli
cation,as the appropriate,and as it were,technical
means of executing those powers. In this (enfe
it had been explained by the friends of the con
stitution, and ratified by the Hate conventions.
The elfential charatfteriftic of the government,
as composed of limited and enumerated powers,
would be destroyed : If inltead of direct and in
cidental means, any means could be used, which
in the language of the preamble to the bill, ' might
be conceived to be conducive to the fuccefsful
conducting of the finances ; or might be conceiv
ed to tend to give facility to the obtaining of loans.'
He urged an attention to the ditFufe and duiftile
terms which had been found requisite to cover
the stretch of power contained in the bill. He
compared them with the terms nece[fary and proper,
used in the Constitution, and alked whether it
was possible to view the two defer Options as fyno
ninious, or the one as a fair and fafe commentary
on the other.
If, proceeded he, Congress, by virtue of the
power to borrow, can create the means of lend
ing, and in purfiTance of'thefe means, can incor
porate a Bank, they may do any thing whatever
creative of like means.
The Eaft-lndia company has been a lender to
the Britifli government, as well as the Bank, and
the South-Sea company is a greater creditor than
either. Congress then may incorporate similar
companies in the United States, and that too not
under the idea of regulating trade, but under
that of borrowing money.
Private capitals are the chief resources for loans
to the Britilh government. Whatever then may
be conceived to favor the accumulation of capi-
tals may be done by Congress. They may incor
porate manufacturers. They may give tnonopo-
ies in every branch of domeitic industry
If, again, Congress by virtue of the power to
borrow money, can create the ability to lend,
they may by virtue of the power to levy money,
create the ability to pay it. The ability to pay
taxes depends on the general wealth of the so
ciety, and this, on the general prosperity of
agriculture, manufactures and commerce. Con
gress then may give bounties and make regula
tions on all of these objedls. \
The States have, it is allowed on all hands, a
concurrent right to lay and collect taxes. This
power is secured to them not by its being ex
pressly reserved, but by its not being ceded by
the constitution. The reai'ons for the bill can
not be admitted, because they would invalidate
that righc ; why may it not be conceived by Con
gress, that an uniform and exglufive impohtion
of taxes, would not less than the proposed Banks
' be conducive to the fuccefsful conducting of the
national finances, and tend to give facility to the
obtaining of revenue, for the use of the govern-
ment ?'
The doctrine of implication is always a tender
one. The danger of it has been felt in other
governments. The delicacy was felt in the adop
tion of our own ; the danger may also be felt,
if we do not keep close to our chartered author
ities.
Mark the reasoning on which the validity of
the bill depends. To borrow money is made the
end and the accumulation of capitals, implied as
the meant. The accumulation of capitals is then
the end, and a bank implied as the means. The
bank is then theend, and a charter of incorpo
ration, a monopoly, capital punishments, &c.
implied as the i?ieans.
If implications, thus remote and thus multi
plied, can be linked together, a chain may be
formed that will reach every object of legislation,
every object within the whole compass of politi
cal economy.
The latitude of interpretation required by the
bill is condemned by the rule furniflied by the
constitution itfelf.
Congress have power " to regulate the value
of money yet it is expressly added not left to
be implied, that counterfeitors may be puuiflied.
They have the power " to declare war," to
which armies are more incident, than incorpo
rated Banks, to borrowing ; yet is expressly ad
ded, the power "to raise and support armies
and to this again, the express power " to make
758
rules and regulations for the government of ar
mies a like remark is applicable to the powers
as to a navy,
The regulation and calling out of the militia
are more appurtenant to war, than the proposed
bank, to borrowing ; yet the former is not left
to conftrudlion.
The very power to borrow money is a less re
mote implication from the power of war, than
an incorporated monopoly bank, from the pow
er of borrowing—yet the power to borrow is i lo c
left to implication.
It is not pretended that every ii-ifertioi] oroinif
fion in the constitution is the effed of fyltematic
attention. This is not the character of any hu
man work, particularly the work of a body of
men. The examples cited, with others "that
might be added, fufTiciently inculcate nevertheless
a rule of interpretation, very different from that
on which the bill relbs. They condemn the cx
ereife of any power, particularly a great and im
portant power, which is not evidently and jieccl
farily involved in an exprefspower.
It cannot be denied that I lie power proposed
to be exercised is an important power.
As a charter of incorporation the bill creates
an artificial person previously not exiftingin law.
It confers important civil rights and attributes
which could not otherwise be claimed. It is,
though not precisely similar, at least
to the naturalization of an alien,by which certain
new civil characters are acquired by him. Would
Congress have had the power to naturalize, if it
had not been expressly givea ?
In the power to make bye laws, the bill dele
gated a fort of legislative power, which is un
questionably an adt of a high and important na
ture. He took notice of the only restraint on
the bye laws, that they were not to be contrary
to the law and the conllicution of the bank ; and
alked what law was intended ; if the law of the
United States, the scantiness of their code would
give a power, never before given to a corpora
tion—and obnoxious to the States, whose laws
would then be fuperceded not only by the laws
of Congress, but by the bye laws of a corpora
tion within their own juridiction. If the law
intended, was the law of the State, then the
State might make laws that would destroy an in
stitution of the United States.
The bill gives a power to purchase and ho'cl
lands ; Congress themselves could not purchase
lands within a State " without the consent of
its legislature." Mow could they delegate a pow
er to others which theydid not pollefs themselves
It takes from our fucceilors, who have equal
rights with ourselves, and wrh the aid of expe
rience will be more capable of deciding on the
fubjeCl, an opportunity of exercising that right,
for an immoderate term.
Ittakes from our constituents the opportunity
of deliberatingon the untried mealure, although
their hands are also to be tied by it for the fame
erra
It involves a monopoly, which afFedis the equal
rights of every citizen.
It leads to a penal regulation, perhaps capital
punishments, one of the moll: foleinn aits of so
vereign authority.
From this view of the power of incorporation
exercised in the bill, it could never be deemed
an acceflary or subaltern power, to be deduced
by implication, as a means of executing another
power ; it was in its nature a diftintTt, an inde
pendent and fubltantive prerogative, which not
being enumerated in the constitution could never
have been meant to be included in it, and not
being included could never be rightfully exer
cised.
He here adverted to a diftincftion, which he
said had not been fufficiently kept in view, be
tween a power necefl'ary and proper for the go
vernment or union, and a power neceifary and
proper for executing the enumerated powers. In
the latter cafe, the powers included in each of
the enumerated powers were not exprefled, but
to be drawn from the nature of each. In the
former, the powers composing the government
were expressly enumerated. This constituted
the peculiar nature of the government, no power
therefore not enumerated, could be inferred from
the general nature of government. Had the
power of making treaties, for example, been
omitted, however neceflarj' it might have been,
the defect could only have been lamented, orfup
plied by an amendment of the constitution.
But the proposed bank could not even be called
necessary to the government; at molt it could
be but convenient. Its uses to the government
could be supplied by keeping the taxes a little in
advance—by loans from indi vid uals—by the other
banks, over which the government would have
eqnal command ; nay greater, as it may grant
or refufe to these the privilege, made a free and
irrevocable gift to the proposed bank, of using
their notes in the federal revenue.
He proceeded next to the coteniporary exposi
tions given to the constitution.
The defence against the charge founded on
the want of a bill of rights, presupposed, he said.
that the powers not given were retained; anithat tliofe given Were not to be extended l>y re
mote implications. On any other fuppoiition,
the power ot Congress. to abridge the freedom
of the press, or the rights of conicience, &c.
could not have been disproved.
The explanations in the Itate conventions all
turned on the fame fundamental principle, and
011 the principle that the terms necell'ary and
proper gave no additional powers to thole enu
merated. [Here he read sundry paflages from
the debates of the Pennsylvania, Virginia and
North-Carolinaconventions, fbewing the grounds
on which the conflitution had been vindicated
by its principal advocates, against a dangerous
latitude of its powers, charged 011 it by its oppo
nents.] He did ni»t undertake to vouch for the
accuracy or authenticity of the publications
which he quoted—be thought it probable that
the sentiments delivered might in many instances
have been mistaken, or imperfedlly noted ; but
the-complexion of the whole, with what he him
felf and many others must recollecit, fully jufti
iied the use he had made of them.
The explanatory declarations and amendments
accompanying the ratiffcations of the several
states formed a striking evidence, wearing the
fame complexion, He referred those who might
doubt on the fubjed:, to the several acts of rati-
fication
The explanatory amendments proposed by
Congress themselves, at least, would be good au
thority with them; all these renunciations
power proceeded on a rule of conftrucftion, <SP'
eluding the latitude now contended for. These
explanations were the more to be respected, as
they had not only been proposed by Congress,
but ratified by nearly three-fourths of the rtates.
He read several of the articles proposed, remark
ing particularly on the' nth. and 12th. the-for
mer, as guarding against a latitude of interpre
tation—the latter, as excluding every source of
power not within the constitution itfelf.
With all this evidence of the sense in which
the constitution was understood and adopted, will
it not be said, if the bill fliould pass, that its
adoption was brought about by one set of argu
ments, and that it is now administered under tke
influence of another set ; and this reproach will
have the keener sting, because it is applicable to
so many individuals concerned in both the adop
tion and administration.
In fine, if the power were in the constitution,
the immediate exercife'of it cannot beeflential—
if not there, the exercise of it involves the guilt
of ufurpatioii, and establishes a precedent of in
terpretation, levelling all the barriers which li
mit the powers of the general government, and
protect those of the state governments. If the
point be doubtful only, refpeft for ourselves,
who ought to shun the appearance of precipitan
cy and ambition ; refpeift for our fucceflors, who
ought not'lightly to be deprived of the opportu
nity of exercising the rights of legiilation ; re
spect for our constituents who have had no op
portunity of making known their sentiments,
-and who are theinfelves to be bound down to the
ineafure for so long a period ; all these consider
ations require that the irrevocable decision Ihould
at leaftbe suspended nntil another feflion.
It appeared on the whole, he concluded, that
the power exercised by the bill was condemned
by the silence oftheconftitutioti ; was condemned
by the rule of interpretation ai ifing out of the
constitution ; was condemned by its tendency to
destroy thevnain charatfteriftic oftlie constitution;
was condemned by the expofitiortis of the friends
of the constitution, whilst depending before the
public ; was condemned by the apparent intention
of the parties which ratified the constitution ;
was condemned by the explanatory amendments
proposed by Congress themselves to the Constitu
tion ; and he hoped it would receive its final
condemnation, by the vote of this house.
SATURDAY, Feb. 19
Mi*. Muhlenberg pfcfcntcd the petition of Valentine Wiley
read, and referred to the Secretary at War.
Agreeable to the order of the day, the houle again resumed the
confederation of the amendments proposed by the Senate to the
new revenue bill—an amendment was proposed to the 6ift ie£H
on. limiting the compensation to'the officers to two years, which
palled in tiie affirmative, ayes 34, noes 20 : The residue of the a
mendtnenfs were to with amendments.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) gave notice, th3t on Monday next he should
move that a committee be appointed to prepare, and bring in a bill
for the temporary regulation of the Poft-Office.
The report of the Secretary of the Treasury, upon the exports
from the United States, was referred to a feleft committee, confid
ing of Meflrs. Carroll, Bourne, and Mr. Sedgwick.
On motion of Mr. Sedgwick, the house resolved itfclf into a
committee of the whole—Mr. Boudinot in the chair, and took in
to consideration the bill giving effect to the laws of the United
States, within the (late of Vermont—the committee reported the
bill, with one amendment, which was agreed to by the house.
The bill was then ordered to be cngroffed, and read a third time
«n Monday nc xt.
The house again went into a committee of the whole—and took
into coiffideration the bill regulating the number of reprelentatives
to be chofcn bv the dates of Vermont and Kentucky : the com
mittee reported the bill without amendment, which was rfad a
third time and pafTed.
In committee of the whole, on the bill to provide compensati
on to clerks, marfhalls and jurors in the courts ot the United States
—aftei*fome time spent, the committee rose, reported progress and
allied leave lo fit again.
M O-N D A Y, Feb. 21.
ReDortu from the Secretary of War on fnndry petitions read.
An engrofled bill to give etfeft to the laws of the United Slates,
within tue state of Vermont, was feiad the third time, the blanks
filled up, and the bill passed.
Mr. Gondhtie delivered in the following.
The Committee to whom was referied the Message of the Prejident oj the
United States, oj the 14 th inft. report as follows :
.THAT alter the day of no goods, wares or merchan
dize, of foreign growth or manufacture, shall be imported into
the United States, except in vessels of the United States, or in such
as actually belong to the country or place, of which such goods,
wares or merchandize, are or may be, the giowth, product or ma
nufacture, or in the (hips or vessels of such country or place, to
which the (hips or vessels of the United States (hall be permitted
to carry goods, wares and merchandize, which arc not of the
growth, product or manufacture ot the United States.
And if any goods, wares, or merchandize ot foreign growth or
manufacture, more than (hall be necessary for sea (lores, (hall af
ter the said day of be imported into the United States, in
any other mannerthan as is herein before provided ; ail such goods
wares, and merchandize, and the (hips and vessels in which the
fame (hall be imported, together with their tackle and apparel,
(hall be seized and forfeited, to th? use of the United States, ana
(hall he recovered and fold, and the proceeds accounted for, and
applied in the manner provided for forfeitures, by the ast, intitu
led, " An ast
That there (hall be levied, collected, and paid, upon all rum
which,-after ttie day of (hall be imported into the United
States (over and above the duties now payable on distilled fgirits)
a duty of one cent pr. gallon. And upon all distilled spirits, the
produce or manufacture of any country or place, at which the
(hips or vessels of the United States are not permitted to load such
distilled spirits, and which (hall be imported into the United States
after the day of a farther additional duty of twelve and
an half cents pr. gallon, on such as (hall be not more than ten pr.
cent below proof,according to Dicas's hydrometer, and in like
proportion for all other distilled spirits, whether imported direftlv
from thence, or from any other country or place,in any ship or ves
sel, other than those of the United States ; which duties (hall be
levied, collected, and paid, in like manner, fubjeft to the like re
gulations and drawbacks, as is provided by the ast, intituled,
" An ast
And in order to ascertain the country or place at which spirits
imported after the day of shall have been distilled, it fhal 1
be the duty of the importer or importers thereof in other than
{hips or vefTels of the United States, to make proof to the fatisfac
tion of the officers of the customs, with whom entry of any distil
led spirits shall be made, that the fame were distilled in some coun
try or place at which the ships or vefTels of the United States are
permitted to load like spirits ; in default of which proof, all such
spirits shall be liable to the payment of the aforefaid duty of twelve
and an half cents per gallon.
In committee of the whole on the bill making compensation to
Clerks, Marfhalsand Jurors.
The committee difcufTed the several fe&ions of the bill ; which
were so amended as to leave the compensations to arise altogether
from fees : They then role and reported the bill to the House,
which further amended the fame. The bill was then referred to
a feleft committee, of five, to report a table of fees.
Mr. Madison reported a bill to explain a clause in the Ast mak
ing provision for the public debt—refpe&ing the duty on lead and
primed calicoes ; which was read the firft and second time, and
ordered to be engrofted for a third reading.
In committee of the whole on the bill, to compensate Captain
Joshua Barney. A motion for filling up the blank with 896 dol
lars, occasioned a considerable debate, and was finally negatived.
The committee then rose and reported the bill to the house with
a blank. A motion for engrofling the bill was also negatived.
A meffige was received from the Senate informing the House
that they have patted a bill which originated in the house, with
sundry amendments.
Some private business occuring, occasioned an order for clearing
the galleries.
TUESDAY, Feb. 22.
Mr. Sedgwick of the committee appointed for the purpose, re
ported a bill to make further provision in the law for the colle&ion
of the duties on Teas, which was read the firft and second time,
and referred to the committee of the whole house.
Sundry reportsfrom the Secretary of War, on petitions referred
to him, were read.
A bill supplemental to the ast for establishing the Treasury De
partment, was read the firft and second time, and made the order
of the day for to-morrow. This bill provides for extending the
clause in the bill which enjoin# an oath or affirmation from the
principal officers of this Department, to the Clerks.
A meflage was reeived from the Senate, informing the house,
that they recede from some, and adhere to others of their amend
ments to the bill laying duties on distilled spirits, &c.
The committee appointed to 6onfider, and report what further
provision is n ceffary to secure the duly accounting for monies ap
piopriated for the War Department, reported a resolution for the
appointment of a pay-master, which was read and|laid on the table.
In committee of the 1 whole, on the bill, supplementary to the
a£l to incorporate the fubferibers to the bank of the United States.
Mr. Smith [S. C.J moved that the firft feftion of the bill should
be expunged—and proposed the following in substance, as a sub
stitute, viz : that fubferiptions for the bank should not be opened
till the firft Monday in July next, and that the firft payment in
the fix per cents of the United States may be deferred till the firft
Monday in January next ; this was agreed to.
A clause to prohibit any person or body politic, except on be
half of the United State?, from fubferibing within three months
from the said fiift of July, more than shares in one day—
was agreed to.
A clause proposed by Mr. Fitzfimons enjoining the payment of
the specie proportion of the fubfci iption at the time of fubferibing,
and fubje£ting the fubferibers to a forfeiture of the said fiift pay
ment, in cafe the subsequent payments are not made—was also
agreed to.
Mr. Madison proposed a clause, in substance, making it optional
with the fubferibers to pay their fubferiptions either in the three or
fix per cents, both of the continental and aflumed debt—the three
per ceuts, at two for one of the fix per cents ; agreed to.
The committee reported these amendments to the house, which
were adopted, and the bill ordered to be engrofTed for a third read
ing to-morrow.
The enrolled bill to regulate the,number of Representatives for
the States of Kentucky and Vermont was reported, and signed by
the Speaker.
The amendments to the bill laying a duty on distilled spirits,
See. which had been disagreed to by the Senate, were taken into
consideration. The firft amendment to which the Senate had dis
agreed, refpe&ed the limitation of the compensation of the offi
cers to two years ; they proposed a substitute, by which, the pro
vision was to continue till altered by law : Alter some debate, the
question for agreeing to the amendment of the Senate, was nega
tived—Ayes 24; Nays 36. The house then volei to insist on their
amendment. The houfc concurred in the other amendments.
A meflfage was received from the Senate informing the house
that they'have negatived the bill determining the time of the next
Meeting of Congress ; also communicating a vote of the Senate in
which they request the concurrence of the house, for transmitting
to the PrcGdcnt of the National Aflembly of France, a resolution
expreflive of the sensibility of the legislature of the United States
at the very rclpe&ful attention paid by that free and enlightened
aflembly to the memory of Benjamin Franklin.
The report of the committee on the mefTage of the Prefidcnt of
the United States of the 14th infl. was read the second time.
A motion to refer this report to a committee of the whole, was
fuperccded by Hie call for an adjournment—which took place.
759
tOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE VOLUNTEER LAUREAT,
AN ODE;
For the EIRTH.DAYvf the PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
OFT has the Foet's venal fortg,
Correttly mean, and elegantly low,
Told the falfe plaudits of the courtly throng,
And wak'd a smile on guilty Grandeur's brow.
But here hath Virtue's guardian hand \
Tom from the Syren, Adulation's power
The Man, whose praise—the voice of every land—
Hangs on the lips of every parting hour.
Here, can no Poet's venal song
Echo the praises of a courtly throng ;
I\or the poor wealth of many a powerful State.
Buy a new honor for the truly great :
For here, the Muse's noblest lays
But speak a Nation's answering praise ;
And here, can heaven-descended verse
Nought but the glories of his name rehearse.
Daughter of Heaven ! awake theenobling lyre !
Breathe thy full influence ; every cord inspire ;
Exalt the foul to dignity of song ;
Swell every note, and every strain prolong.
The answering Spirit trembles o'er the firings ;
Things, more than earthly, dance before my fight ;
Hark ! with her voice the empyrean rings ;
Ihe Past, lies all reveal'd ; the Future lives in light.
" The voice of Horror echoes far ;
" Responds, the direful whoop of war ;
*' Thunders, the mighty tube of death ;
c< Ihe knife red gleams upon the heath ;
u Groans load the air, shrieks rend the ikies ;
" Thdcrimfon standard wildly flies ;
'' Impatient slaughter loudly calls ;
The Chief of Tho'tlefs Valor falls.
u 'Gainst all the terrors of the field,
" 1 he Chief of Virtue rears his shield ;
" Secure, the train diminifh'd move;
" And weeping Britain smiles in love.
l< See, demon Danger's horrid form,
" With dire OpprefTion flrong allied,
" Hangs o'er the land—and wak-s the storm ;
" And lwells, of deep calamity, the tide.
" See, in their train Deftru&ion stalk ;
" And Giant Vengeance threatening walk ;
" And red-clad Envy ride the empoifon'd gale ;
" And jealous Grandeur spread the impatient fail.
" Greatly infpir'd, his country lifts her voice—
" See Danger trembles at his awful name;
" Tyrant OpprefTion views her fainting flame ;
<c And gasping Freedom breathes but to rejoice.
" Dark o'er the field of Liberty and Right,
" Of fad Difmav, hangs low the deepen'd gloom :
" Wide spreads the slash of Trenton's bloody light ;
" And Freedom, glorying, rises from the tomb.
" Strong in himfelf—he scatters wide the storm ;
" Calms the wild raging of the troubled tide ;
" O'crfhrows Definition ; Vengeance joins his fide ;
" And Envy kneels in Adoration's fotm.
" Lin'd with red Hosts the ramparts shine;
" Oppos'd, the brother armies join ;
" The brazen Thunders ope their throats ;
" On all the air the Tempest floats :
Their Captives guarded, fee the bands retire,
" And jealous Grandeur at the view expire.
" His Country fav'd, o'er Cincinnatus great,
" He tills the foil, and guides the arts of Peace.
" But fee ! new Glory bursts the womb of Fate !
" New toils demand him from the promis'd ease !
" The voice of millions lift him o'er the realm
" Which once his valor from oppreflion freed ;
" Powerful in virtue, now he rules the helm—
" In War—in Peace—the blest of Heavon fuccecd.
" O born to grace and dignify mankind !
" Years Long await thee—Time himfelf shall (lay
" Till thou haft op'd, resplendent on the mind,
" Th' immortal brightness of the moral day.
11 Tis thine to spread new virtue o'er the Eaith ;
** To breathe the foul of liberty in man ;
" To brace Creation to a glorious birth ;
" And charm Perfe&ion to complete the Plan."
Favor'd of Heaven ! the Muse in rapture faints,
Thy grateful country strives, in vain, to sing ;
The Earth uplifts her hands in joy—the Saints
Respond in Peans to each (peaking firing.
" Long may'ft thou live"—the Soul of Nature crlcs—
" Greatest of Mortals —Favorite of the Skies."
PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 23, 1791
Yesterday being the Anniversary of the Birth-Day of The
PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES, when he attained to
the 59th }'ear of his age—the fame was celebrated here with every
demonstration of public joy. The Artillery and Light-Infantry
corps of the city were paraded, and at 12 o'clock a federal falutc
was fired. The congratulatory Compliments of the Members of
the Legifiature of the Union—the Heads of the Departments of
State—Foreign Minifters—Officers, civil and military of the State
—the Reverend Clergy—and of Strangers and Citizens of diftmc
tion, were presented to the President on this auspicious occasion. >
The President of the United States, by and with the advice and
consent of the Senate, has been pleased to nominate and appoint
David Humphreys, Esq. Minister-Resident, from the United
States, to her Moil Faithful Majesty the Queen of Portugal.
Names of the Counfeilors and Attornies in the Supreme Court of the
United States, admitted and sworn at Philadelphia, Feb. 1791.
COUNSELLORS.
William Lewis, William Bradford, jun. Alexander Wilcocks,
Miers Fisher, Jonathan D. Sergeant, larcd Ingerfoll, Edward
Tilghman, James Monroe, Edward Burd, William Barton, Mofcs
Levy, John F. Mifflin, Charles Heatley, William Rawle, Jasper
A. I. Dallas, Thomas Learning, jun. PeterS. Du Ponceau,
John Todd, jun. Joseph B. M'Kean, Joseph Hcnderfon, and Ben
jamin Chew, jun. Esquires, of Pennsylvania.
> Luther Martin, Esq. of Maryland.
Hon. Alexander White, ot Virginia,
Hon. Samuel Johnfton,of North-Carolina.
ATTORNIES.
John Caldwell, and Bfni. R. Morgan, EfqVs, of PennfyUanid,
PRICE CURKLNI'. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 17/2 pr. £ 86 pr. cent.
3 pr. CrntJ of. 9/1 45 <|o.
Defered 6 pr. Cents Q/«. 46 do.
UNFUNDED DEBT,
Final Settl.and other Certificates 15/9 16f.* 80 do l
Indents 9/ 9/1 45 < *°-
N. and S. Carolina debts, \2j6 d«.
* Erroneously Jlated i?/"6 in entr UJt.
i
ELLA,Report of the Secretary <>f the Treasury, on the
subject of a Mint-.*
B , * ONI 11 N u cd.;
T the remainder ot the argument (lands upon ground far
more qu< iii&oable. It dcu.* nds upon vt rv numerous and very
complex combinations ; io which there 15 infinite la-uuc'e lor fal
lacy and error.
i he raoft plaulible part of it rs that Which relates to the- course
°' c *change. Experience, in France, has (hewn, that the ma.kjt
price of bullion has been influenced by the mint difference, be
tween that and coin ; some times to the full extent of the difference;
and it will seem to be a clear inference, that whenever that dif
ference materially exceeded the charges of remitting bullion,
fiom the country where it exifled, to another in which coinage
was free, exchange would be in favor of the former.
If, for instance, the balance of trade, between France and En
gland, any time equal, their merchants would naturally
liave reciprocal payments to make to an equal amount ; which
asufual would be liquidated by means ot bills of .exchange. If
m this fnuation, if the diilercnce between coin and bullion Ihould
be in the market, as at the mint of France, 8 per cent; if also the
charges ot transporting money from France to England ihould
not be above 2 per cenr.; and if exchange fliouid be at par, it is
evident, that a profit of 6 per cent, might be made, by fending
bullion from Fiance to England and drawing bills for the amount.
One hundred louis d'ors in coin would purchase the weight of
icß in bullion ; one hundred of which remitted to England would
fuffice to pay a debt of an equal amount : and two being paid for
the charges of insurance and transportation, there would remain
fix for the benefit of the person who Ihould manage the negocia
tion. But asfo large a profit could not fail to produce competi
tion, the bills in confequcnce of this would decrease in price, till
the profit was reduced to the minimum of an adequate recoinpence
for the trouble and rifle. And as the amount of 100 louis d'ors,
in England, might be afforded for 96 in France, with a profit of
morethan 1 and 1-2 percent, bills upon England might fall in
I ranee to 4 per cent, below par ; one per cent, being a fufficient
profit to the exchanger or broker for the management of the bu
siness.
But it is admitted that this advantage is loft, when the balance
of trade is against tlie nation ; which impofej the duty in qutUion ;
because by encreafing thedemand for bullion, it brings this to a
par with the coins : and it is to be ftifpetted, that where com
mercial principles have their free fcopc, and are well understood,
the market difference between the metals in coin and bullion will
ieldom approximate to that of the mint, if the latter be eonfider
able. It must be not a little difficult to keep the money of the
world, which can be employed to an equal purpose, in the com
merce of the world, in a flateof degradation, in comparison with
the money of a particular country.
This alone would seem fufficient to prevent it : whenever the
price of coin to bullion, in the market, materially exceeded the
par of the metals, it would become an object to fend the bullion
abroad; if not to pay a foreign balance, to be inverted in some
other way, in foreign countries, where it bore a superior value :
an operation, by which immense fortunes might be ama fled, if it
were not, that the exportation of the bullion would of itfelf restore
the intrinsic par. But as it would naturally have this effect, the
advantage supposed would contain in itfelf the principle of its
own deftru&ion. As long however as the exportation of bullion
could be made with profit, which is as long as exchange could re
main below par, there would be a diain of the gold and silver of
the country.
If any thing can maintain for a length of time a material dif
ference, between thevalue of the metals in coin and in bullion, it
must be a constant and considerable balance of trade, in favor of
the country in which it is maintained. In one situated like the
United States, it would in all probability be a hopeless attempt.
The frequent demand for gold ana silver, to pay balances to fo
reigners, would tend powerfully to preserve the equilibrium of
intrinsic value.
The profpfft is, that it would occasion foreign coins, to circu
late by common consent, nearly at par with the national.
To fay, that as lar as the effe£l of lowering exchange is produ
ced, though it be only occasional and momentary, there is a bene
fit the more thrown into the scale of public prosperity, is not fa
tisfaftory. It has been seen, that it may be productive of one
evil, the investment of a part of the national capital in foreign
countries ; which can hardly be beneficial, but in a situation like
that of the United Netherlands ; where an immense capital and a
decrease of internal demand render it necessary to find employ
ment for money, in the wants of other nations : and, perhaps, on
a close examination, other evils may be descried.
One allied to that, which has been mentioned, is this—Taking
France, for the fake of more concise illustration, as the scene.
VI hfnever it happens that French louis d'ors are sent abroad, from
whatever cause, there be a considerable difference between
coin, and bullion, in the market of France, it will constitute an
advantageous traffic to fend back these louis d'ors and bring away
bullion, in lieu of them ; upon all of which exchanges, France
must sustain an actual loss of a part of its gold and silver.
Again, such a difference between coin and bullion may tend to
countera£l a favorable balance of trade. Whenever a foreign
merchant is thecarrier of his own commodities to France, for
sale, he has a ffrong inducement to bring back specie, instead of
Trench commodities ; because avrcturn in the latter may affo d no
profit, may even be attended with loss ; in the former, it will af
ford a certain profit. The fame principle muff be supposed to
operate in the general course of remittances, from France to other
countries. The principal question with a merchant naturally is
In what manner can I realize a given sum, with mod advan
tage, where I wifli to place it? And, in cases, in which other
commodities are not likely to produce equal profit with bullion,
it may be expedled that this will be preferred ; to which the
greater certainty attending the operation, muff be an additional
incitement. There can hardly be imagined a circumstance, less
friendly to trade, than the existence of an extra inducement, ari
sing from the possibility of a profitable speculation, upon the ar
ticles themselves, to export from a country its gold and silver, ra
ther than the produ&s of its land and labour.
The other advantages supposed, of obliging foreigners to pay
dearer for domestic commodities, and to fell their own cheaper,
are applied to a situation, which includes a favorable balance of
trade. It is understood in this sense—The prices of domestic
commodities (such at lead as arc peculiar to the country) remain
attached to ttye denominations of the coins—When a favorable
balance of trade realizes in the market the mint difference be
tween coin and bullion, foreigners, who must pay in the latter,
are obliged to give more of it for such commodities, than they
otherwise would do. Again, the bullion, which is now obtained
at a cheaper rate in the home market, will procure the fame quan
tity of goods in the foreign market, as before; which is said to
render foreign commodities cheaper. In this reasoning, much
fallacy is to be fufpe&ed * —If it betrue, that foreigners pay more
for domestic commodities, it must be equatlv true, that they get
more for their own, when they bring them themlelvts to market.
If peculiar, or other domestic commodities, adhere to the denomi
nations of the coins, no reason occurs why foreign commodities of
a like chara&e/, (hould not do the fame thing.—And in this cafe,
the foreigner, though he receive only the fame value in coin for
his merchandize, as formerly, can convert it into greater quantity
of bullion. Whence the nation is liable to lose more of its wold
and silver, than if their intrinsic value in relation to the coins,were
preserved. And whether the gain or the loss, will on the whole
preponderate, would appear to depend on the comparative propor
tion of active commerce of the one country with the other.
(To be continued.)
D ANBURY, Feb. 1.
On the morning of the 17th tf January between 8
and 9 o'clock, the brig Sally) belonging to StOfnJord,
commanded by Capt. Benjamin Ketlsr, of Ridgjiild,
returning from a voyage to the U'efl'-Indies, was cajl
away on Eaton's Reef, Long-ljlaitd, ahdall on board,
Wnjifiing of n persons perijh.'d. ' '
The shore prefentfd a tnfurnful and diflreffing fight
of various parts of the vejfel and cargo jhattercd and
broken to pieces, floating upon thewater. The quar%
ter deck, which was composed of two.inch plank, was
broken cross-ways, and the vejfel torn asunder ill ma
ny parts. These fragments and ruined cargo, were
drifted on shore, about 33 rods jroiiithe extremity of
Eaton's point. The body oj Capt. Keeler was jound,
drifted on fljore, with his arms clenched fajl round the
top-mast shrouds, where he probably was when the 1
vejfel jiruck, and fell with the majt. Three other bo
dies were found on shore, viz. Daniel Gray, oj Stam
ford, Stephen Jackson, and James Butlpr, of JVor
walkjfailors. The Brig failed out 0f &tgg-Hti'rb our
onwinday morning : The serenity of the weather, the
tnildn ess oj the day and the little appiarance of such a
dreadful fiorm,had probably raifedthetr expetfatiens
oj reaching their defignedport without danger. But
Jrorn this time to the morning in which they perished,
we can only conjetture their awful and dijlrcfed si
tuation ; excepting from jams c'trcumjlances and pa
pers. Jt appears that Capt. Keeler, apprehending
the dejlritttion which awaited them, packed his cloaths
up and put them with his papers refpetting the voyage,
his watch, medal, and some other things,'into his chef),
locked it and fajlened his keys to the hinge of his trunk,
hi order to secure themselves in cafe the vejfel should
Jlrike, they had f aliened one end of a piece of rigging
to the boat, the other to the shrouds. The vejfel was
seen at 7 o'clock in the morning of the 1 7th close in
with tht land at Eaton's neck, under fail and endea
voring to claw off the shore. Soon after this, they were
probably flove in pieces. Among the papers found,
there was one written by the Captain, and carefully
packed up with the log-book, describing the horrors of
the /form, and the diflrefs they were in, being present
ed with nothing but the gloomy profptft cf a watery
grave. Capt. Keeler was the only foil of his mo
ther, and she a widow—a dutiful and affettionate
child, beloved by all his acquaintance : Having expe
rienced misfortunes himfelf, he was ever ready to Juc
cour the wretched. As a seaman he was expert, hav
i"g followed the business 12 years : He died ( aged 29 )
lamented by his relations, friends, and acquaintances.
We are informed that a mercantile house in
Lanflngburg, has this season purchased, and ta
ken into ftore,upwai ds of 30,006 bushels of wheat
—and that Mell'rs. John Kane and Brothers,have
purchased, and in ltore at Fort-Edward,between
12 and 16,000 bulhels.
In this city, wheat is on the fall : As an in
stance of which,ye mention,one of one merchants
having offered all he had in store [-being no in -
considerable quantity] at 6s. per bushel, in cash
—half in hand, and the remainder at a 4 months
credit.
N E W- Y O R K, Feb. 14. *
A Boston paper of the 7th inflant fays, " Sa
turday last Captain Cobb arrived here in the
schooner Nancy, in 30 days from Martinico.—
Notwitliftanding the various accounts of the re
storation of tranquility in the French, [W. I.]
Islands, we are authorized to affirm, that the di
sturbances there continue with aggravated fury.
CHARLESTON, Jan. ,25.
On Tuesday the 20th instant, in the lioufe of
Representatives, at Columbia, 011 the second rea
ding of a bill to repeal the confifcation ac£t, a ve
ry warm debate took place. On the qneftion be
ing put, the ayes were 15, nays 69, so the bill
was loft. \
The Hon. Hugh Williamson, Esq. is re
eletfted a member of the house of repi efentatives
of the United States, for the Albemarle division
of this Hate. By a majority of 896.
The judges of the superior courts of law and
courts of equity in this Itate, having laid before
this general aflembly a letter informing of their
having refufed a writ of!certiorari, ifl'ued by the
judges of the federal court for the diftrid: of
Bforth-Carolina, relative to a suit depending in
the court of equity for the*diltii<ft of Edenton.in
the state aforefaid, in which Robert Morris, John
Alexander Nelbitt, and others are complainants,
(and Nathaniel Allen, Alexander Black, William
Scott and others defendants, and the said judges
have, together with their letters, laid before the
two houses the reasons and causes of such their
refufal.
It is therefore resolved, that the genera] aflem
bly do commend and approve of the condudt of
the judges of the courts of law and courts of e
quity in this particular question.
The question being put, will the house concur
with the resolution of the senate ? it was carried
in the affirmative. Adjourned fine die %
760
ALBANY, Feb. 7
EDENTON, Feb. 4.
NO R T H-C AR OL IN A.
Jti SENATE, December, 1790
W. LENOIR, S. S
HENRY KUHL,
No. 143, North Second-Street.
ah (xpedatiort that a mutual advantage would bt deri
. vcd by the dealers, in public fecuri;ies, and a pe:!>n whJ
ihould undertake to tianiall such bufinels on tom&ij/.on only, ti. s
concluded to offer -himfclf ibr that purßeing of ojun'ion,
that every requisite to convince them and others o; !i:s difiii creit
ednefs otiglu to be attended to on his part, he lias duly made oar!"
before the Hon. the Chief Juftiec of the Slate (V Pennl iw;m, tha
le will faithfully execute the tiufts which mav be r:pokd in hi
COPV OF THB*O AT H
l< I Henry Kuh/, of the city of PkiUde'pb'rol ■, dj ju.car,
that I wiil not be conccrved either dircLl. or'indii efl\ t on *>;\ o:cn ac
count, in any purchajes or files cf the evi'dtnees of the dtbl iff-ihi United
$t4tes or oj particular State.', but will Httlx and'faithfully c xecutc fuck
purchdfes and Jales on coinmitfion only Jut rhoje who mux cv>rto\ me:
that is to jay, until / shall d'm, ounce in one or more oj I)e nciiijpaper s
printed at the feat of the government of the United States. m\ deter
mination to the contrary. HENRY KL'HL."
Sworn at Philadelphia, Fcbiuary 12'h, 1791, before
THOMAS M'K-EAN."
The cominiflions he will charge for the pi eient, are—
On the fpecte amount ot all furns below SCOO nominal dollars,
one half per cent, on do. f rom 5000 to 10,000 do. one fourth ptr
cent, on do. from 10,000 and upwards do. one eighth per cent.
Accounts dated, and certificates funded at the Treasury pi-
Loan-Office of the United State s, on moderate terms. '
N. B. AH orders for purchases or fates to be in writing.
Philadelphia, February 19, 1791. (85 t. f. 1 )
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY.
THE Managers afthe STATE LOTTERY, preient the Pubic
with the First C'afs of the Majfachufctts fcmi-annual State Lot
tery, which will coinmencedrawmgin the Heprejcntatives*Chamber
in Boston, on the Seventeenth of March next, or Jooner, if the
Tickets shall be disposed of.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE.
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125,000 Dollars, to bc-paid in the following Prizes, fubjeft to a
deduttion of twelve andan half per cent, forihe use of the Com
monwealth.
Prizes.
1 of
2
3
6
10
30
80
9°
100
120
161
200
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
25000.
TICKETS may he had of the several Managers,vrho will
pay the Prizes on demand—of the TREASURER of thoCommon
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Bo</k-Store, Franklin's-Head,
Court-Street, and at other places as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, iun.l
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER, ). Managers.
GEORGE R. MINOT, '
JOHN KNEELAND, j
Jjojlon, Juh 28, 8790.
Tickets in the above Lottery are to beJoic by Stephen Au.'tin,
corner of Front and Pine Streets, Philadelphia. '
PLEASE TO NOTICE
&CF* FOR the accommodation of those v)fio would
■wijh to become Adventurers in the Fir J} Class of the
MassachusettsSemi-annualStateLottery,
letters, post paid, directed to Samuel Cooper/;!?
k-is Office, North fide State-Honfe, Bofion, enclofmg
Philadelphia, New-York or Boflon Bank-Bills, or
other good Bills, will be particularly attended to t and
Tickets forwarded immediately- upon the receipt of
fitch letters.
Boston, Dec. 22, 1790.
N. B. A Lift of Prizes will be deposited with the
Printer hereof, immediately after the drawing is
compleated. 71 iaw if
{Jdf* The Managers of the STATE LOTTERY a (Tare the
public, that the fii 11 Class ot the Semi-anuual Lottery will pofiiivc
lv commence drawing on the day appointed, viz. the 17th of
March next. As the Managers have in their fevcraj Monthly Lot
teries commenced drawing at the hour alfigncd, To thev are deter
mined to be equally as punfrual in this,
THE Copattnerthip ol HE WES anrl ANTHONY having ex
pired the 31ft ultimo, they request tholr, Who have any «' -
mands, to exhibit their accounts and receive their money; and
thole who are indebted, are desired to fpcedy payment, to
either of the Sublet ibers, at their Comoting-Houfe, No. Chef-*
nut-Slreet-Wharf. J.O S I A H H E W E .S.
JOSEPH ANTHOSY
Philadelphia, Jan. 1791. *
N. B. They have yet on hand, and for SALE, at their STORE
abovementioned _
lIYSON, Souchong, and Bohea TEAS,
Three cases Caflia,
Pimento in bags,
Mulcovado Sugar,
A lew Cases old Batavia Arrack,
One calk of Durham Mustard,
New Engi«md Ram in hogfaeads and barrels,
A quantity ot prime Boston Beef,
Spermaceti, njrht whale and tanners' Oil,
Bcft pickled Mackrel,
6by 8— 7 by 9 —Bbyio—9 by 11—and 10 by 12 Window
Glass,
A quantity of excellent carrot Tobacco,
And an elegant CHAN DELIER.
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
No. gi, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURITIES of the United Slate. , or of any
particular Stare,
Philadelphia, Feb. 1790.
Dollars.
10000 is
are
3°oo
2000
1000
500
200
100
50
40
3°
20
lO
8
Martinico Coffee,
(?.aw6w-)
Dollars,
10000
6000
6090
6ooq
SCOO
6000
Bcoo
4500
400©
3600
3220
2COO
60680
1 2^oo^-
fan.