V ■ f
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND .WriKDXvS BY JOHN fENSO, No. 6 9 , HIG lis TR EET, BETWEEN' 3 j-CP AT) AND THIRD MEETS, FrtLADELPHII
[No. 87, of Vol. ll.]
Difcotirfes on Davila No. 24.
(Continued from No. 63 of this Gazette.)
AFFAIRS had now taken a new face. It was
easy to forefee, that the animosities of the
two factions would never be excinguilhed but by
arms—and that the tempest which had long
grumbled in the air, would soon pour upon their
heads. Accident soon produced a favorable con
juncture for precipitating France into the greatest
misfortunes. The King of Navarre, having de
clared himfelf openly for the Catholic party,
fixed his residence at Paris. This city, situated
in the centre of France, is much more populous,
more rich, more magnificent and more powerful,
than any other in the kingdom. This Prince,
believing that the other cities would easily con
form to the example of the capita], forgot no
thing to hinder the Hugonots from holding their
allemblies, and preaching their sermons there ;
in which the Parisians in general, enemies- of
the reformation, seconded him with zeal. By this
means he hoped in time to diminilh insensibly
the credit and the forces of the Protestants, and
take away their liberty of conscience, which alone
fupponed their existence. The Prince of Conde
resided also at Paris, where he promoted and so*
| xnented the designs of the Hugonot ministers.
Under the pretext of causing to be obferved'the
edict of January, he extended from day to day
the liberiy of conscience ; and, whether by power
or by right, arrogated to himfelf a great autho
rity in what refpe&ed the State. The King of
Navarre, animated equally against his'brother
by a love of repose, and by jealousy, resolved Irov
compel him to, gp out of Paris. Several other
motives determined to put an en A to trou
bles and seditions, as as conventrcles, in a
city which was the firwfcfl: support of the Cathq
lic party ; but whether lie felt himfelf too weak
to attempt such an enterprize alone, or whether
he wiflied to consult his Confederates before he
execute'stry-rTrrrrg, TmnviT?ani §
and the Constable to come pfnd join him, with
their partisans,
The Duke of Guise, since his retirement from
Tourt, reficled at Joinvil'le. one of his country
"eats, upon the frontiers of Champaine and Pi
:ardy. L'pon the invitation of the King of Na
'arre, he departed for Paris, accompanied by the
Cardinal his brother, a numerous retinue of gen
lemen attached to his interests, and two compa
res of men in arms. The (it ft of March, in the
norning, as he palled by Valli, a little city in
Champaine, his.people heard an unusual ringing
ifbclis, and having asked the reason of it, were
old that it was the signal of a sermon at which
the Hngonots aflembled. The valets and foot
men of the Duke, who were mod forward on the
road, excited by the Angularity of the thing, and
by curiosity to fee one of these airemblies, which
were but lately begun to be holden publicly, ad
vanced in a tumult, uttering their coarse jokes,
towards the place where tlie Hugonots were af
lembled to hear their ministers. The Calviniits
understanding that the Duke of Guise, whom
they regarded as one /if their mod ardent perle
cutors, was not far off, and feeing a troop of his
people coming direcftly to them, whether they
dreaded some insult, or whether they were piqued
at the rude railleries and fcornful speeches of
this servile mob, they answered by atfts of vio
lence, pelting with stones th? firft who were ad
vancing towards their congregation.
This is the account of Davila—and at this day
it may be of as little consequence to enquire
which fide began to use force, a> to ascertain
which party fired the firft gun at out Lexington.
When a nation is prepared for a civil war,
when parties are formed and paflions enflamecl,
which can be extinguished no other way, it is,
only for the fake of popularity, neceflary to en
quire which strikes the firft blow, but in our
/American revolution, we know it was the party
who were in the habit of domineering who be
gan—and fucli is commonly the cafe. Most pro
bably De Thou is in the right for the fame rea
lon—who aflei ts that the Duke of Guile s ser
vants threw the firft stones ; and if this was done
without the Duke's orders, it is certain that his
mother, a bigotted furious Catholic, had often
entreated him to deliver her from the neighbour
hood of the Protestants of Vafli ; and very pro
bably she had enflamed his whole family against
theui. However this might be, the Catholics
abandoned all their prudence and attacked the
Saturday. 26, 1791.
Protestants, sword inland, and the lkirmilh Toon
became furious. [lie Dhke, informed of the
tumult, and wishing to appease it, ran in all halte
and ruihed into the iriidlt of the combatants—
while he reprimanded his own people,' and ex
horred the Hugoriots to retire, he was slightly
wounded by the itroke of a stone upon his left
jaw. The blood which he lolt obliged him to
retire from the uproar, when his followers,
growing outrageous, had recourse to fire-arms,
forced the house where the Calvinifls had bari
cadoed themselves, killed more than sixty of
them ; and their minifies - , dangerously wounded,
escaped with great difficulty over the roofs of the
nighbouring houies. When the commotion was
alluaged, the Duke of Guise fenc for the Judge
of the place, reprimanded him for tolerating
such conventicles. The Judge excused himfelf'
because these allembiies were permitted by the
eclicft of January. The Duke, as much enraged
at this answer as at the disorder which occasion
ed it, laid his hand on the hilt of his sword, and
replied, with great fury, " The edge of this
iron fhal] soon deliver us from that edict which
they think so solidly These words,
uttered in the ardour of his indignation, did not
escape the attention of those who heard them —
and in the feqnel he was accused of being the
Boutefeu, and the author of the civil wars.
The Hugonots, irritated by the, massacre at
Vaffi, could no longer contain themselves within
the bounds of moderation—not content with the
excefles committed by them in several cities of
the kingdom, and especially in Paris, where they
had maliacred fevergl Catholics, and set fire to
trc?sbhurch of St. Medard ; they listened only to
; th|fr-«wn rage, and excited everywhere troubles
arid bloody seditions ; monasteries were pillaged,
images broken, {altars overturned, and churches
profaned. Thelb on both fides, embit
tered, mens' minds, and they rushed every where
to arms. The chiefs of the two parties, agitated
prepared openly for war. But the leaders of
both fattions were not iguorant that, in the ac
tual Hate of things, they could not take arms
without rendering themselves guilty of rebellion,
and that there was neither pretext nor colour
which could authorize any measures which tended
to war, The Catholics could not interrupt the
execution of the edict of January, without con
troverting openly the decisions of the council,
and wounding the royal authority from which'
this edict had ifl'ued. The Hugon-ois had no rea
sonable motive to revolt, while they were pro
tected and allowed to enjoy the liberty of con-,
science granted them by that edict. The leaders
of each party desired to draw-the King to tkairftd?.
and to become mailers of his perfun, either to abolilh
the edi<t, or to derive new advantages from it,
in order to prove that their cause was the molt
just—and that it was t;ie opposite party which
erected the standard of rev.olt, by opposing the,
apparent will of the Sovereign, and by attacking
even his person.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
' THURSDAY, Feb. 3.
The B ANK BILL under conjideration,
IS/TR. AMES : Little doubt remains with vef
-L' a-yieft to the utility of Banks. It seems to
be conccklect within doors and without, that a
public Bank would be ufeful to tiadc, that it is
almost eH'ei'tfal to revenue, and that it is little
Ihort of indiipenfible necessity in times of pub
lic emergency. In countries whose forms of go
vernment left them free to chufe, this inftitu
tioll has been acUptcd of choice, and in times of
national danger vnd calamity it has afforded such
aid to government to make it appear, in the
eye,s of the people, a veceflary means of felf pre
servation. Ihe fubjewyhowever intricate in its
nature, is atlaftefeared fiW obfem ity. It would
not be difficult to eflablifh principles, and to
deduce from its theory, fucli conferences as
761
[Whole No. j,,,.].
I would vindicate the policy of the meafui e.
> why should we lose time to examine'the Theory**
when it is in our power to resort to experience ?
After being tried by that test, the world has
agreed: in pronouncing the inrtitution excellent.
This new capital will invigorate trade and ma
nufactures with new energy, It will furni/h ? »
medium for the collection of the revenues ; and
if government fliould be preited by a sadden ne,
ceility, it will afford aid.
With all these and many other pfetenfions, if
it was now a question whether Congress Would
be vested with the power of eftablifting a Banfcf
I trust that this house and all America w<rald ak
sent to the affirmative.
This however is not a question of expediency,
but of duty. We are not at liberty to examine
which of several modes of acting is entitled to
the preference. But we are Solemnly warned
again ft acting at all. We are told that the con
iUtution will not authorise Congress to incorpo
rate the fubferibers to the Bank. Let us ex-na
ine the conltitution, and if that forbids our pro
ceeding, we must reject the bill ; though we
fliall do it with deep regret that filch an oppor
tunity to ferye our country must be Suffered to
escape, for the want of a constitutional power to
improve it.
The gentleman from Virginin considers the
oppofcrs of the bill as fuffering disadvantage, be
cause it was not debated as bills uCuaily are in the
committee of the whole lioufe. He has prepared
us to pronounce an eulogium upon his conlift
ency, hy informing us that he voted in the old
Congress against the Bank of North America, on
the ground ofhisprefent objection to the con
stitutionality. He has told us that the meaning
of the constitution is to be interpreted by cotem
potaneous testimony. He was a member of the
convention which formed it, and of course his
opinion is entitled to peculiar weight. While
we refpe«ft his former conduct, and admire the
felicity U1& fituarion, we cannot think he lof
tains disadvantage in the debate. Be/ides, he
must have been prepared with objections to the
constitutionality, because he tells us they are of
long {landing, and had grown into a fettled ha
bit of thinking. Why then dill he fuffer the bill to
pass the committee in silence ? The friends of the
bill have more cause to complain of disadvan
tage ; for while he has had time to prepare his
objections, they are obliged to reply to them
without premeditation.
In making this reply, I am to perform a talk
for which my own mind had not admonished me
to prepare. I never fufpecfted that the objec
tions 1 have heard Hated had exigence : I consi
der them as discoveries ; and had not the acute
penetration of that gentleman brought them to
light, 1 am lure that my own understanding would
never have suggested them.
It seems ilrange too that in our enlightened
country, the public ihould have been involved
in eqiv*l blindtiels. While the exercise of even
the lawful powers of government is disputed—
and a jealous eye is fixed on its proceedings ; uoc
a whisper has been heard againit its authoriry ta
eitablijh a bank : Still, however unseasonably,
the old alarm of public discontent is founded in
our ears,
Two questions occur : May Congress exercise
any powers which are not exprefsjy given in
the constitution ; but may be deduced by a reason
able conftrnrtion of that instrument ? And se
condly, will fucli a conftrucftion warrant the ef
tablifhinent of the Bank
The docflrine that powers may be implied
which are not exprefaly veiled in Congress has
long been a bugbear to a great many worthy
periods. They apprehend that Congress by put
ting conftruftions upon the constitution, will go
vern by its own arbitrary discretion ; and there
fore, that it ought to be bound to exercise the
powers exprefily given, and those only.
If Congress may not make laws conformably
to the powers plainly implied, tho not exprefled
in the frame of government, it is rather late in
the day to adopt it as a principle of conduct : A
great part ofour two year's labor is loft,and worse
than loft to the public, for we have scarcely made
a law in which we have not exercised our discre
tion with regard to the true intent of the consti
tution. Any words but those used in that inftrn
ment will be liable to a diiferent interpretation.
We may regulate trade—therefore we have taxed
(hips, creifted light-houses, made laws to govern
#I^o
*
*
VI
V'seamen, See. because we fay that they are the in
cidents to that power : The molt familiar and
undisputed acts of legiflation'w;]l Ihew, that we
have adopted it as a fafe rule of atftion to legi-
Jlate beyond the letter of the constitution.
He proceeded to enforce this idea by several
confederations, and illultrated it by various ex
amples. He said that the ingenuity of man was
unequal to providing, especially beforehand, tor
all the contingencies that would happen. 1 lie
constitution contains the principles which are to
govern in making laws ; but every law requires
an application of the rule to the cafe in quettion.
We may err in applying it ; but we are to exer
cise our judgments, and on every occasion to de
cide according to an honest convidtion of its true
meaning.
The danger of implied power does not arile
from its afluming a new principle : We have not
only pratftifed it often ; but we can scarcely pro
ceed without it: Nor does the danger proceed so
vauch from the extent of the power, as from its
uncertainty. While the oppofers of the Bank ex
claim against the exercise of this power by Con
gress, do they mark out the limits of the power
which they will leave to us, with more certainty
than is done by the advocates of the Bank ? Their
rules of interpretation by co-temporaneous testi
mony, the debates of conventions, and the doc
trine of substantive and auxiliary powers, will be
found as obfeure, and of course as formidable, as
that which they condemn : They only set up one
confirmation against another.
The powers of Congress are disputed : We are
obliged to decide the question according to truth.
The negative, if falfe, is less fate than the affir
mative if true : Why then shall we be told, that
the negative is the fafe fide ? Not exercising the
powers we have, may be as pernicious, as ufurp
ingthofe we have not. If the power to raise ar
mies had not been exprefled in the enumeration
of the powers of Congress, it would be implied
from other parts of the constitution. Suppose,
however, that it were omitted, and our country
invaded, Would a decision in Congress against
railing armies be fafer than the affirmative ? The
blood of our citizens would be shed, andfhed un
avenged. He thought therefore, that there was
too much prepoffelfion with some against the
Bank, and that the debate ought to be consider
ed more impartially, as the negative was neither
more fafe, certain, nor conformable to our duty,
than the other fide of the queltion. After all, the
proof of the affirmative imposed a fufficient bur
den, as it is easier to raise objeiftions than to re
move them. Would any one doubt that Congress
may lend money—that they may buy their debt
in the market, or redeem their captives from Al
giers ?. Yet no such power is expressly given,
tho it is irrefiftably implied
If therefore foine interpretation of the confti
.ution innftbe indulged, by what rules is it to be
governed ? The great end of every aflbciation of
persons or States, is, to effect the end of its insti
tution. The matter in debate affords a good il
lustration : A corporation, as soon as it is crea
ted, has certain powers, or qualities, tacitly an
nexed to it, which tend to promote the end for
■which it was formed—fuch as, for example, its
individuality—its power to sue, and be sued—
and the perpetual fucceflion of persons. Govern
ment is itfelf the highell kind of corporation,
and from the instant of its formation, it has ta
citly annexed to its being, various powers which
the individuals who framed it did not fepararely
poflefs, but which are ellential to its effecting the
purposes for which it was framed—to declare, in
detail, every thing that government may do,
could not be performed, and has never be<-n at
tempted : It would be endless, useless, and dan
gerous—exceptions of what it may not do, are
ihorter and fafer.
Congress may do what is necessary to the end
for which the constitution was adopted, provided
it is not repugnant to the natural rights of man,
or to those which they have expressly refervec! to
themselves, or to the powers which are afllgned
to the States : This rule of interpretation seems
to be a fafe, and not a very uncertain one, inde
pendently of the constitution itfelf : By that in
strument certain powers are fpecifically delega
ted, together with all powers neceflary and pro
per to carry them into execution : That construc
tion may be maintained to be a fafe one which
promotes the good of the society, and the ends
for which the government was adopted, without
impairing the rights of any man, or the powers
of any State.
This, he said, was remarkably true of the Bank
man could have cause to complain of it ;
the bills would not be forced upon any one. It
is of the firft utility to trade. Indeed the in
tercouvfe from State to St.ne can never be on
a good footing without a Bank ; wliofe paper
•will circulate more extensively than that of any
State Bank. Whether the power to regulate
trade from State to State will involve that of re
gulating inland bills of exchange and bank pa
per, as the inftrnments of the trade and incident
to the power, he would not pause to examine.
That is an injury and wrong which violates the
right of another. As the Bank is founded on tlie
free choice of-thofe who make use of and is
highly ufeful to the people, and to government,
a liberal oonftrwftion is natural and fafe. This
circumftahce creates a preemption in favor of
its conformity to the constitution. This pre
emption is enforced by the necessity of a Bank
to other governments. The mod orderly go
vernments in Europe have Banks. They are
conlidered aS indifpenfibly necessary ; these ex
amples are not to be supposed to have been un
noticed. We are to pay the interest of our debt
in 13 places. • Is it poilible to transport the reve
nue from one end of the continent to the other :
Nay,a week before the quarter's interest becomes
due, transfers may be made which will reqaire
double the sum in Boston which was expected.
To guard against this danger, an extra sum must
be depofired at the different loan-offices. This
extra sum is not to be had ; our revenue is bare
ly equal to the interest due. This imposes an
absolute necessity upon the government to make
use of a Bank. The answer is, that the State
Banks will supply this aid. This is risking a
good deal to the argument against the Bank ; for
will they admit the necessity and yet deny to the
government the lawful and only adequate means
of providing for it. Ten of the States have no
Banks ; those who have may abolilh theirs, or
fuffer their charters to expire. But the State
Banks are infufficient to the purpose—their pa
per has not a fufficient circulation—of conrfe
their capitals are small. Congress is allowed to
have a complete legislative power over its own
finances ; and yei T without the Qourtefy of the
States it cannot4>e exereifed. This seems to be
inconsistent.
If a w*r should suddenly break out, how is
Congress to provide for it ? Perhaps Congress
would not be fitting ; great expences would be
incurred, and they mult inliantly be provided
for. How is this to be done—by taxes ? And
will the enemy wait till they can be collected ?
by loans at home ? Our citizens would employ
their money in war speculations, and they are
not individually in a condition to lend a fuffi
cient sum in specie—or fliall we feiid across the
sea for loans? The dispute between England and
Spain furnifh an example ; the aid of their Banks
for several millions was prompt and effec r tn»l.
Or will you fay that Congress might iflue
money? That power, ruinous and fallacious"" as
it is, is deduced from implication, for it is not
expressly given. A Bank only can afford the
neceflary aid in time of sudden emergency. If
we have not the power to establish it, our social
compact is incomplete, we of
felf preservation.
I /hall perhaps be told, that necefiity is the ty
rant's plea. I answer that it is a miserable one,
when it is urged to palliate the violation of pri*
vate right. Who fulfers by this use of our au
thority ? Not the States, for they are not war
ranted to establish a national Bank : Not indivi
duals, for they will be assisted in trade and de
fended from danger by it.
Having endeavored to enforce his argument
by noticing the uses of Banks to trade, to revenue,
to credit, and in cases of exigency, he adverted
totlieauthority ofourown precedents: Our right
to govern the Western Territory is notdifputed.
It is a power which' no (late can exercise : It miijl
be exercised, and therefore it resides in Congress.
But how does Congress get this power ? It is not
expressly given in the Constitution, but is deri
ved either from the nature of the cafe, or by im
plication from the power to regulate the proper
ty of the United States. If the power flows from
the nature and neceflity of the cafe, it maybe de
manded, Is there not equal authority for the Bank?
If it is derived from the power of Congress to re
gulate the territory and other property of the
United States, and to make all needful rules and
regulations concerning it, and for thedifpofal of
it, a ftriift conflruetion would restrain« Congress
merely to the management and disposal of pro
perty, and of its own property : Yet it is plain,
that moreisintended. Congrefshasaccordingly
made rules not only for governing its own pro
perty, but the property of the persons refidino
there : It has made rules which have 110 relation
to property at all—forpunifhing crimes : In (hort
it exercises all power in that territory : Nay; it
has exercised this very power of creating a cor
poration : The government of that territory is a
corporation—and who will deny that Congre/S
may lawfully establish a Bank beyond the.Ohio ?
It is fair to reason by analogy from a pow' r which
is unquestionable, to one which is theiubjecil of
debate.
He then alked, whether it appeared on this
view of the fubjecft, that the eftab/iflunent of a
National Bank would be a violent mis-interpre
tation of the Constitution. He did not contend
for an arbitrary unlimited difcetion in the £o
vernmentto do every thing : He took oecafion co
protest against such a mis-conception of his argu
ment. He had noticed the preat marks by which
the conftrndlion of the C'onilitution, he conceiv
ed, innft be guided and limited—and thei'e, if
not ablolutely certain, were very far from beina
762
arbitrary or unfafe : It is for the honfe to judge,
whether the conftruc r tion which denies the pow
er of Congress, is more definite and 'fafe.
In proving thac Congress may exercise powers
which are not exbrcfsly granted by the coiiftiru
tion, he had endeavoured to establish such rule*
of interpretation, and had illustrated his ideas
by such observations, as would anticipate, in a
considerable degree, the application of his-prin
ciples to the point in question. Before he pro
ceeded to the conftrin!tion of the clauses of the
conftitutioi: which apply to the argument, heob
ferved that it would be proper to notice the qua
lities-os a corporation, in order to take a more
exact view of the controversy.
He adverted to the individuality and the per
petuity of a corporation, and that the property
of the individuals should not be liable for rlie
debts of the Bank or Company. These qualities
are nqt more ufeful to the corporation than con
formable to reason : but government, it is said,
cannot create these qualities. This is the nar
row of the argument: For Congress may set up
a Bank of its own, to be managed as public pro
perty, to issue notes which fhajl be received in
all payments at the treasury, which shall be ex
changeable into specie on demand, and which
it shall be death to counterfeit. Shell a bank
would be less fafe and less ufeful than one tinder
the direction of private persons—yet the power
to establish it is indisputable. If Congress has
authority to do this business illy, the question
returns, whether the powers of a corporation,
which are eflential to its being well done, may
be annexed as incident to it. The bank of New-
York is not a corporation, yet its notes have cre
dit. Congress may agree with that bank, or with
a company of merchants, to take their notes, and
to cause all payments to pass through their cof
fers. Every thing that government requires of
and will perform to the bank, may be lawfully
done without giving them corporate powers—
but to do it well, l'afely and exrenfively, those
powers are indifpenfible. This seems to bring
the debate within a very narrow com pass.
This led him to consider whether the corpo
rate powers are incidental to those which Con
gress may exercise by the conftitntion.
He entered into a difcuflion of the conftrucftion
of that clause which empowers Congress to regu
late the territory and other property of the Uni
ted State# The United States may hold pro
perty—may dispose of it—they may hold it in
partnerfliip—they may regulate the terms of the
partnership. One condition may be, that the
common stock only shall be liable for the debts
of thejmrmerlbiw, and. that any purchaser of a
share shall become a partner. These are the
chief qualities of a corporation. It seems that
Congress, having power to make all needful rule*
and regulations foi the property of the United
Stales, may establish a corporation to manage it
—without which we have seen, that the regula.
tion cannot be either fafe or ufeful: The United
States will be the proprietor of one tenth of the
Bank Stock.
Congress may exercise exclusive legislation ia
all cases whatsoever, over' the 10 miles square,
and the places ceded by the States for arsenals,
light-houles, docks, &c.—Of course it may esta
blish a Bank in those places, with corporate pow
ers. The bill has not restrained the Bank to this
city—and if it had, the dispute would lose a part
of its solemnity : If instead of principles, it con
cerns only places, what objection is there to the
constitutional authority of Cengrefs to fix thi»
Bank at Sandy-Hook, or Reedy Illand, where we
have light-houses, and aright ofexclufive legisla
tion ? A Bank established there, or in the diftricft
located by law on the Potowmac for the feat of
government, could fend its paper all over the
Union : It is true, that the places are not the
molt proper for a Bank ; but the authority to
establish it in them, overthrows the argument
which isdeduced from the definite nature of the
powers veiled in Congress, and the dangerous
tendency of the proposed conftruc r tion of them.
The preamble of the constitution warrants this
remark, thataßani is not repugnant to thefpirit
and eflential objects of that instrument.
He then confi.lered the power to borrow money.
He said it was natural to understand that autho
rity asit wasatfually exercised in Europe—which
is, 10 borrow of the Bank. He observed, the pow
er to borrow, was of harrow use, without the in
stitution of a Bank—and in the most dangerous
ciifis of affairs would be a dead letter.
After noticing the power to lay and colle<ft tax
es, he adverted to the sweeping clause, as it is
ufiially called, which empowers Congress to exer
cise all powers neceflary and proper to carry the
enumerated powers into execution. He did not
pretend that it gives any new powers ; but it ef
tabliihed the do«flrine of implied powers.—He
then denianded whether the power to incorporate
a Bank is not fairly relative, and a neceflary in
cident to, the entire powers to regulate trade and
revenue, and to provide for the public credit and
defence.
He entered into a particular answer to several
objections, and after recapitulating his argument,he concluded with observing, that we had felt the
disadvantages of the confederation—we adopted
the coitftitution expe&ing to place the national
affairs under a federal head : This is a powe.
which Congress only canexercife : We mayrea
foil away the whole constitution : All nations
have their times of adverlity and danger : The
negledl of providing tvgainft them !n i'eafon, may
be the cause of ruining the country.
IN SENATE, Feb. 22. 1791. ,
RESOLVED by the Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America in Congress aflerhbled, That the
President of ttje United States be requested to cause to be commu
nicated to the National AfTembly of France, the peculiar fcnfibili
ty of Congress to the tribute paid to the memory of Benjamin
franklin, by the enlightened and free representatives of a great na->
ti.on, in their decree of the 11th of June 1790.
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 25.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
THE cngrofled bill, fuppleinentary to the a&,
incorporating the subscribers to the bank of the
United States, was read a third time, and (the
blanks being filled up) was pafled.
The house concurred in a resolution sent yester
day from the Senate, vequefting that the Frefi
dent will communicate to the National Afleinbly
of France, the sense which Congress entertain of
the honor paid by that body to the memory of
Benjamin Franklin.
The report of the Secretary of the Treasury,
relative to the grant of fuither compensation to
the commissioners of the loan office, for extraor
dinary expences, ■ incurred in the execution of
the at!t, making provision for the public debt,
was read, and referred to a feledt committee,
confiding of Mefirs Williamfon, Partridge, and
White.
A meflage was delivered by Mr. Secretary
Otis, informing the house, that the Senate had
paft'ed, with an amendment, the bill giving effecft
to the laws of the United States, within the state
of Vermont ; and tcquefted the concurrence of
the house in the said amendment. Mr. Otis far
ther informed the house, that the Senace had re
solved, that the bill, authorizing the President
to cause the debt, due to fot«jgn officers, to be
discharged, should not pass to aitjird reading.
Another meflage was delivered bx Mr, Secre
tary Otis, informing the house, that Senate
insisted on their amendment to the revert*ebill,
and had appointed a committee to confer wYilj a
committee of this house. Meflrs
and Livermore were appointed on the part of the
house.
On motion, it was resolved, that the report of
the fele<ft committee, on the President's ineff'age
of the 14th i 11ft. be referred to the Secretary of
State, and that he be to report to Con
gress, the nature and extent of the privileges and
reflrictions ofthe commercial intercourse of the
United States with foreign nations, and such mea
sures, as he shall think proper to be adopted for
the improvement ofthe commerce and navigation
of the United States.
Mr. Smith, (S.C.) reported a bill, to determine
the day of the next meeting of Congress ; which
after a firft and second reading, was ordered to
be engrofled. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, Feb. 24.
/"Sundry memorials and petitions being prefemed, read, and fe
derally referred to the heads of departments—Saturday next was
assigned for taking into confederation the reports of committees,
and of the Secretaries of the Treasury, and of War, on petitions re
ferred to them.
The report of the Secretary of the Treasury, in favor of the pe
tition of William Simmon*, was read, and the house having agreed
to the fame, appointed Messrs. Trumbull, Bourne, and Foster, a
committee, to prepare and bring in a bill in conformity thereto.
Mr. Sherman reported a bill, providing compcnfatioris for the
•fficers »f the several courts of law, and for jurors, and witnefles ;
■which, after a firft and second reading, was referred to*a commit
tee of the whole house to-morrow, and ordered to be printed.
The amendment *proposed by the Senate to the bill giving effect
to the laws of the United Stales within.the state of Vermont, was
agieed to.
Mr. Bourne, reported a bill, to repeal so much of the impost
law, as rates the Danish rin-dollar at 100 cents. Read a firft
time.
The report of the committee, to whom was referred the report
ef the Secretary of the Treasury on the fubjeft of the exports of the
United States, was twice read, the house, having agreed to the
fame, ordered that 300 cooies of the committee's report,|toinclud;
that of the Secretary of the Treasury be primed.
Mr. Floyd from the joint committee on enrolled bills, reported
lhat the committee had this day presented to the President, for his
approbation, the enrolltd billj regulating the number ot Repre
fentarives to be chosen bv the Hates of Kentucky and Vermont ;
also that they bad examined, and found to be duly enrolled, the
Tefolution of both houses requiftingthe President to communi
cate to the National Aflembly of France, the sense which Congress
entertain of the honor paid by that body to the memory ot Dr.
Franklin.
Mr. Williamfou reported a bill making compensations to the
©omm-frionei s of loans, for their extra expcnces and fervices,which
after a firft and second leading, was referred to a committee of the
"whole house to-morrow.
On motion of Mr. l.awrance, resolved, that the Secretary of
(•he Treasury be dire&ed to report, whether any, and what, addi
tions are to be made to his return ot the export* of the United
I States.
I The bill, fixing the time for the next annual meeting
J«f Congress, was read a third time and pasTed ; the blank, being
I felled up with " theJourth Monday in Oftobcr next."
In committee of the whole, on the bill supplementary to the
I eft, cltablifhing the Trcafurv Department ; the committee made
some amendments.which being agreed to by the houfe,the bill wz«
ordered to be enfeoffed, for a third reading.
I On motion of Mr. Sedgwick, the memorial of Thomas M'Kean
I and others, public creditors, was taken up for a second reading ;
I and after fomc debate, the following resolution, moved by Mr.
j Sedgwick, was agreed to—s3 to 2.
That it would be inexpedient to ;..ter the system For)
funding the public debt, cftabiiihed the la(l feUioa of Congreis ;
nd that the prayer of the petition ot Thomas M'Kean, and others,
ftyling-themfelvcs a rommittee of the public creditors of the com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, and also of other petitions on that
ft, cannot be granted. , tlHf
The Yeas and Nays beiKg called/or, were as follow :
\ vtf/s.
MefTrs Ames, Afhe, Boudmot.Bourne,Brown,
Burke, Cadwalladcr, ClymcVContee, Fitzfimons, Floyd, Foster.
Gale, Oilman, Goodhue, Grout, Giles.Jackson, Hunting
ton, Lawrance, Lee, Livermore, Madison, Mathews.
Moore, Muhlenberg, Parice/, Partridge, Van Schure
man, Srdgwick, Sylvester, Sinnickfon, Smith (M
Smith (S. C.) Vs.'Sutnolcr, Thatcher, Trumbull.
Tucker, Vining, wKite, Wynkdop. Willi am foil*
/ [ NAYS.
Messrs Scotr.
The house again resolved itfelfinto a committee of the
oiuhe bill toel\ablith the pott-office and post-roads within the
United States : The committee debated the fubjeft, and rose
without any decision.
A meflagefrom the Senate was delivered by Mr. Secretary Otis,
informing that the Senate had passed the b 11, Tent to them, by the
House of Reprefentat ves, entitled, " An ast to explain and amend
an ast, entitled, an ast, making *ur her provision for the public
debt."
IN SENATE, Feb. 24, 179 1 -
The bill, entitled, " an ast, supplementary to the ast, entitled
an ast, to incorporate the fubJcribers totheßmk of the United
States,'* was read the -second time—and on the question, (Kail this
bill pass to the third rcadivg, the Yeas and Nays were as follow :
MefTrs BafTet, Butler, Dalton, Dickinfon, -EUlworth. Elmer,
Few, Hawkins, Henry, Johnson, Johnfton. Izard, King, Langdon.
Lee, Maclay, Morns, Read, Schuvler, Stanton, Strong, Wingate.
NAYS.
Messrs Carrol, Gunn, Monroe.
F R I'D A Y, Feb. 25.
HOUSE of RE.PRESENT AT IVES.
The engroflcd bill, supplemental to the ast lor cflablifhing th<
Trcafury Department, was read the third time; the blank fillcc
up, and the bill paffi-d.
The petition of Jacob Ilaacs, dating that he had discovered a
sure, cheap, and simple method of procuring frefh from fait wa
ter, and praying the patronage of Congress : Read, and referred
to the Secretary of Slate. ■<
An abftraft of sundry petitions laying on the table, was read J
and the petitions referred to the heads of departments. 1
A memoriat-of the agent to the owner of two French Packets!
prayinf an exemption trom the duty of tonnage on those Packets!
incurr d in the month of January lall, for reasons therein ftatcd,|
was read, and referred to the Secretary of the Trealury.
Sundry reports were read ; one from the Secretary of State on
the petition ot Ferdinand We Ufa' . Laid on the table.. J
A report (rom the Secretary of the Treafui y, concerning certaitj
certificates, iffiied in some of the States, lubfequent to the firft ol
January 1790, which was in favor of funding those certificates,]
under certain regulations, was read and laid on'he table.
Another report from the fame officer was read, refpefting the
loan obthree millions of florins, made in Holland, stating the
terms on winch that loan has been effected ; Ihe repoit propo
■aofed an explanation of a clause in the ast, making provision for
ty leduftion of the public debt : And was referred to a feleft
committee, to report a bill or bills pursuant thereto.
A report was alio received from the Secretary of the Trealury.
on the petition of MelTrs C. and J. Sands and Co. R.ad ar.cl re
ferred t.. df. wa tonliilSxg Motn Sedgwick, WU
liamfon and Benfon.
A message from the Senale by Mr. Secretary Otis, informed
the house that the President of the United States has given his al
fent to the ast for incorporating the fubfcribcrs to the Bank of the
United States, also to the ast regulating the number of Represent
atives for the States ot Kentucky and Vermont.
Mr. Boudinot, of the committee of conference on the fubjeft o(
difagretment between the houlc and senate, refpefting the 61ft
feftion of the Revenue-Bill, brought in a special report, which
had been agreed to by one of the committee of the house, and by
all the members of the committee on the part of the senate. This
report w s fupcrceded by a vote to consider the original fubjeft of
difagreemerr. I
Mr. Jackson moved that the house ffiould adhere to their difa
grecment: This being seconded, a question of order rose. The
Speaker gave it as his opinion, that ihe question to be in order!
should be, whether the house would recede from thei; disagree
ment ? An appeal was made from the chair to the house—and the!
question being taken, the house dccided in favor of the Speakcr'sl
opinion.
The motion was then made to recede, in order to agree to the
amendment proposed by the special report—-which was, to limit
the whole sum to be received by the officers to 45.000 dollars. \
A debate ensued—The question was finally determined by
and noesfi%|srfr2*wv. :
\AYES.
Meftrs. Ames, Benfon, Boudinot, Bourne, Cadwallader, Clv
mer, Fitzfimons, Foftcr, Gale, Gerry, Goodhtie, Hait
ley, Huntington, Lawrance, Leonard, Partridge, Schureman, Scot,
Sedgwick, Sevier, Sherman, S nuickfon, Smith, (S. C.) Sturges,
Thatcher, Trumbull, Vining, Wadfworth, Wynkoop.-te.
Cnoes.
Messrs. Affie, Baldwin, B.oodworth, Brown, Burke, Carrol,
Contee, Floyd, Griffin, Grout, Giles, JatJt.fon'Lee, Livermorc,
Madison, Matthews, Moore, Muhlenberg, Parker, Ranfellaer,
Seney, Sylvester, .Smith, (M.J Steele,' Stone, Sumpter, Tucker,
White, Williamfon.—(29. '
The bill repealing so much ofthecolleflion law as rates tbe Rix
Dollar of Denmark at ioo' cents y/»s read the second time, and
ordered to be cngrofTed. -
The committee on the report of the Secretary of the Trealury—
brought in a bill supplemental to the ast providing lor the re
duction of the public debt—which was read the firft and second
:ime, and relerred to the committee of the whole on Monday
nexf.
On motion of Mr. Smith (5. Q.) tbf committee of the wholel
house was discharged from any iurther consideration of the poft
olfice bill. Adjourned.
Philadelphia,, Feb. 26.
Some persons have supposed that the Bank Bill has been so long
m dubio, on account of difficulties refpc&'.ng iis constitutionality.
Whether this was the cafe or not, u is immaterial to enquire. One
idea is however obtruded on the mind by tbe c ircumftance, which
is truly drfw-native of that judgment and prudence which mark
the conduit <-f our Chief Magistrate on all occasion that is,
that so much attention at leali was due to the fentiment# of a re-
fpc liable minority who supposed the bill to be unconstitutional,
as to give the fubjeft as full a confederation as the time limitted by
the constitution would allow.
/ All the votes taken at the cle&ion for repTefentatives to Con
gress in the state ot New-Jersey have been received, by which it
appears that Abraham Jonathan Dayton % Eiias Boudinot aod
Aaron KitchcH, Efqts. arc duly ele&ed.
The number of white inhabitants within the ftatc ofSouth-Caroli
na, as reported to the Jcgiflaturc, is 126,131.
763
Adjourned.
YEAS.
Philadelphia, February 44th, 1791'
PROPOSALS
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION, A
COLLECTION of STATE PAPERS
INTENDED /> S MATERIALS FOR
AN HISTORY OF THE UNITED STATES OF
AMERICA.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A. M.
Pr this e.olleftion will be contained the Charters of the
feveialftatcs -which now compose the Union ; —the Records
of the United Colonies of New-England ;—Royal Inflec
tions to Colonial Governors ; —Extracts from Public
Records ; —and other aut'.cntic Documents tending to elucidate
our History.
The design of this compilation was intimated to' Congress, and.
honored with their approbation.— On the 20th July, 1778, their
Committee, to whom his memorial was referred, reported it as
their " Opinion, that Mr. Hazard's undertaking is laudable and
deserves the public patronage and encouragement, as being pro
ductive of public utility;" Whereupon they " Resolved, That
it be recommended to the Governors, Presidents, and Executive
Powers of the several ftatcs in the union, to ailift Mr. Hazard,and
give facility to his labors ; and that for this purpose he be admit
ted to an infpeftion of public records, and be furniftied without
expence with copies of such papers as he may judge will conduce
to the valuable end he hath in view.
He was, of consequence, admitted to the infpe&ion and ufc both
of public records, and the colle&ions made by individuals, from
whence this compilation (much the largest he has ever met with
on the fubjeft, and,.he flatters himfelf, the largest ever made in
America) was formed. It has since met the approbation of many
eminent chara6ters,and even in its manuscript state, has facilitated
the fettleroent of some important controversies.
The compiler cannot suppress the following letter from the honor
able the Secretary of State, to whose infpeftion part of the com
pilation was submitted, as it contains foflattering refpetta- I
ble a tcftimony in favor of the importance of the work.
" Philadelphia, February 18, 1791. 1
SIR, [
I return you the two volumes of Records, with thanks for the opportu-]
rtity of looking into them :—they are curions Monuments of the Infancy \
of our country. I learn with great [alisfa&ion that you are about com
mitting to the Press the valuable Hifterical and State Papers you have
been so long collecting. Time and accident are committing daily havoc
on the originals deposited in our public offices : the late war has done the
work oj centuries in this business : the loft cannot be recovered; but let
ui save what remains ; not by vaults and locks, which fence them from,
the public eye and use in consigning them to the wajle of time, but by fuck
• « multiplication of copies as [hall place them beyond the reach of accident;
this being the tendency of your undertaking, beajfured there is no one who
wifhcs itmore complete success than
S I R.,
Your mofl obedient and mofl humble Servant,
•' THOMAS JEFFERSON,"
Mr. Hazard,
CONDITIONS
I. The Work to be pi:bli(hed in numbers, each containing
160 pages, large quarto :—A number to be delivered every three
months.
11. On delivery of firft Number, payment to be made for
the firtl.and second, and afterwards for each Number as delivered
(except the last) so that the price of one Number will be constant- ?
Vv in advance. The very 'great expence attending so large a work,
a', the fame time that it renders this condition absolutely necessa
ry, will be a fufficient apology to the candid for its insertion.
111. The pricc to Subscriber? will be one Dollar for each num- ;
her. It is supposed that the Work, will probably be comprised in
eight Numbers, forming two handsome Volumes, in large quarto,'
printed on a neat Type and good paper.
IV. To those who choofc to fubferibe for the Work in Vo
lumes price will be four Dollar s and a Quarter of a Dollar, for
each Volume, in boards.
V. The colle&iofi will be put to the Press as soon as there
(hall be a fufficient number of fubferiptions tojuftify an hope that
the expences will be defrayed.
gTThofe who receive Subjcriptious will please transmit accounts of
| the numbers obtained to Thomas Dobfon, No, 41, Second Phila
delphia, by the firjl of May next.
Subsc r 1 ptions will be received in Portsmouth, (N. H) by
Jeremiah Libbcy; Boftort, Thomas & Andrews; Worcester,
Isaiah Thomas ; Hartford, Thomas Hildruo c New-Haven, Isaac
lieers; New-London, Timothy Green ; Newport, (R. I.) JacoW
Richardson ; Providence, John Carter ; New-York, Hodge, Al
len Sc Campbell ; Albany, Abraham G. Lanfing ; Philade)phia j
Thomas Dobfon, and Hazard & Addoms ; Wilmington, (Dela.
ware) Frederick Craig ; Baltimore, I. Holmes; Alexandria, Jo.
(hua Merriman ; Norfolk, Mr. Linafey ; Frederickfburgh, Cal_
lender and Henderfon ; Peterfburgh, J°hn Grammcr ; Rich,
oiond, Augustine Davis ; Ncwbern, (N. C.) F. X. Martin ; Wil_
mington, John Bradley ; Charleston, (S. C.) William P.Young.
A Negro Man eloped.
RAN away from his owner about the 25th Jan. last, CAESAR,
a negro man, country born, noted as a preacher among the
blacks, 30 years of age, about 5 feet 7 inches high—thick, well
set ; had on a brown cloth coat, light cloth jacket, leather breeches,
and coarse wilton (lockings.—He also had a tow linen frock with
him ; and wore a small round hat* He is supposed to be gone to
Vuginia, as his father lives on Dr. Vandcveer's plantation, in that
State. Whoever will fake up said negro, and secure him in the
gaol of Philadelphia, or of Trenton, and give notice thereof to the
fubferiber living in Ncw-Jerfey, (hall reccive
Twelve Dollars reward, and all neceflary charges.
HUGH ROWAN.
PUBLIC NOTICE.
Somerjet Countv, (T.
BY virtue of a writ of fieri facias tome dire&ed, again ft the
goods and chattels, lands and tenements ot Christopher
HeikmXn, I have levied on, and seized that valuable house and
lot of land, situate on the north fide of the Main Street, in Prince
ton, now in polTeflion of Adam Shaw, and known by sign of the
College ; it is an excellent Hand for a public house, and has been
occupicd in that way for many years. All the above mentioned
premises will be exposed to sale, on Thursday the tenth day of
March next, between the hours of twelve and five in the afternoon
of said day, ot which all persons concerned will please take no
tice. WILLIAM WALLACE, ShcriJ.
W'ejlcrn Prccintt, \%th February, 1791
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Centi 17/3 pr- i
3 pr. Cents 9/ " 9/2
Defered 6 pr. Ccnti g/i.
86J pr. cent.
46 do.
46 da.
Final Sett!, and otlier Certificates 15/9 16/ 80 do.
Indents qj 9ft do.
X. and S. Carolina debts, nji »'i *•■
r
62 J 4.»
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury, on the
subject of a
(continued.^
IT is cvide; *, ?lfo, that the nation mult p*v as much gold and
silver as before, for the commoditir-s which it procures abroad;
and whether it obtains this gold and cheaper, or not, turns
upon the solution of the question just intimated, refp fling the re
lative proportion of active commerce, between the two countries.
Besides these considerations, it is admitted in the reasoning,
that the advantages supposed, which depend on a favorable ba
lance of traie, have a tendency to affe£l that balance difadvan
tageoufly. Foreigners, it is allowed, will in th s cafe, seek some
other vent for their commodities, and some other r.ia:ket, where
they can supply their W2pts at an ealier rate. A tendency of tics
kind, if real, would be a fufficient objettion to the regulation.
Nothing which contributes to change a beneficial current of trade,
ran well compen'ate, bv particular advantage?, for so injurious
an effeffc It is far more easy to transfer trade, from a less to a
moie favorable channel, than when once transferred, to bring it
back to its old one. Every source of artificial interruption to an
advantageous current is, therefore, cautiously to be avoided.
It merits attention, that the able minister, who lately and so
long presided over the finances of France, docs not attribute to
the duty of coinage, in that country, any particular advantages,
in relation to exchange 2nd trade. Though he rather appears an
advocate for it, 'tis on the sole ground of the revenue it afford?,
which he represents, as in the nature of a very moderate duty on
the general mass of exportation.
And it is not improbable, that to the singular felicity of situa
tion of that kingdom, is to be attributed its not having been sen
sible of the evils which seem incident to the reguiation. There is
perhaps no part of Europe, which has so little need of other coun
tries, as France. variety of foils and climates,
an immense population, its agriculture in » state of mature im
provement, it poflefles within its own bosom. most, if not all thr
productions of the earth, which any of its most favored neighbors
can boast. The variety, abundance and excellcnce of its wines,
constitute a peculiar advantage in its favor. Arts and manufac
tures are'there al(o in a very advanced state—some of them of con
siderable importance, in higher perfection than elsewhere. Its
contiguity to Spain, the intimate nature of its connexion with
that country ; a country with few fabrics of its own, consequently
numerous wants, and the principal leceptacle of the tretfures ol
thenow world. Thefecircumftances concur, in fecuringto France,
so uniform, and so considerable a balance of trade, as in a great
measure to counterafl the natural tendency of any errors, which
may txift in the system of a mint; and to render inferences from
the operation of that system there, in reference to this country,
more liable to mislead than to inftruft. Nor ought it to pass un
noticed, that with all these advantages, th -government of France
has found it necefTary, on some occasions, to employ very violent
methods to comp 1 Jthe bringing of bullion to the mint ; a circum
stance, which affords a strong presumption of the inexpediency of
the regulation, and of the impra&icability of executing it in the
United States.
This point has been the longer dwelt upon, not only because
there is a divcrfity of opinion among speculative men concerning
it, and a diversity in the pra£lice c>f the most considerable com
mercial nations-; but becaulcthe atts of our own government, un
der the confederation, have not only admitted the expediency o>
defraying the expence of coinage out of the metals themselves ;
but upon this icta have both mad .< deduction from the weight
of the coins, and established a difference between thtir regulated
value and '.he mint price of bullion greater than would result from
that deduction. This double operation in favor of a principle so
quefttonable in itfelf, has made a more particular investigation of
it a duty.
The intention,however,of the preceeding remarks,is rather to (hew
that the expe&ation cf commercial advantages ought not to decide
in favor of a duty of coinage, and that if it fiiould be adopted, it
ought not to be in the form of a deduction from the intrinsic value
of the coins—than abfoliaely to exclude the idea of any difference
•whatevqr, between the value of the metals in coin and in bullion.
It is not clearly discerned, that a small difference between the
m int price of bullion, and the regulated value of the coins, would
be pernicious, or that it might not even be advisable, in the firft
instance, by way of experiment, merely as a preventative to the
melting down and exportation of the coins. This will now be
somewhat more particularly considered.
The arguments for a coinage, entirely freeware, that itpreferves
the intrinsic value of the metals ; that it makes the expence of fa
brication a general inftiead of a partial tax ; and that it tends to
promote the abundance of gold and silver, which it is alledged
■will flow to that place, where they find the belt price, and from
that place, where the) are in any degree undervalued.
The firft consideration has not much weight, as an obje&ion to
a plan, which, without diminishing the quantity of metals, in the
coins, merely allows a less price for them in the bullion at the na
tionnl factory or mint. No rule of intrinsic value is violated, by
considering the raw materials, as worth less than the labric, in pro
portion to the expence of fabrication. And by divesting foreign
coins of the privilege of circulating as money, they become the
raw material.
The lecond confederation has perhaps greater weight. But ii
may not amount to an obje£lion, if it be the best method of pre
venting disorders in the coins, which it is in a particular manner
the interest of those, on whom the tax would fall, to prevent.
The practice of taking gold by weight, which has of late years ob
tained in Great-Britain, has bcCn found, in some degree,a remedy;
but this is inconvenient, and may on that account fall into disuse.
Another circumstance has made a remedial operation. This is,
the delays of the mint. It apppears to be the practice there, not
to make payment for the bullion, which is bronght to be ex
changed for coin, till it cither has in fatt, or is pretended to have
undergone the process of Tecoining.
[To be continued.
" Philadelphia, Feb. 25."
Extract of a litter from a gentleman in Edinburgh, to
his friend in this city, dated id OR. I 790,
"■ BY some "Americaif papers I find that a Na
tional Univerficy is in agitation In my poor
judgment the measure will be dangerous. Privi
leges, in time, may be annexed to study in that
University, which cannot be gained by studying
in any other. Opportunities may present for
filling vacant Profeflorfliips, sb as may subserve
the deligns of some ambitious President.
These, in the tirlt feats of government, instiga
ted by principles too common, may vvifli to ex
tend their own power, and to abridge the liber
ty of the fubjecl, Many Profeffors in Scotland,
otherwise of distinguished abilities, have disco
vered how zealous they were fo> principles,
■which, if carried their just length, would con
demn the revolution of r6BB, in their prelections
and publications : especially tliofe occasioned by
the American war. Drs. Campbell and Gerard,
of Aberdeen, and Profefl'or Fergufon, ofEdin
bargb, who, in 'wis liiftory, endeavors to varnifli
over"Sylla's cruelties, are not the only inftanc.es.
flen who boast of free-thinking and liberality of
ientiment, thought it no inconlifteney with this
to maintain Britain's right of enslaving America.
But a Dunbar at Aberdeen, and a Millar at G!af
gow dared topublifh a jufter state of the natural
and unalienable rights of mankind.
" Some years ago the College of Glasgow ex
pelled several Students for daring to find fault
with their measures, and carried their perfec
tion again ft one of them so far, that they hinder
ed his being licenfcd till he had made some hu
miliating acknowledgments. An attempt was
made some years before this, tS vest in the Eng
]ifli (Jniverfities an exclusive right of printing
certain books. The consequence would liave
been that the inoft ufeful histories and political
tradis, if they happened not tofuit thetafte of a
Prince, or Prime Minister, would not have been
re-printed. But where different States have each
their own college, the employing them for thus
perverting and poisoning youth would be anun
iuccefsful attempt. Besides, when you have five
or fix colleges, if you have good libraries and phi
losophical apparatuses, and prefer to profeffor
fhips t lie heft men you can find, afpirit of emula
tion, highly favorable to tie advancement of
learning would be excited andcheriflied. Learn
ing would never have spread as it once did in
Greece, had the States, in the time of their great
est union, eretled a common Academy. At one
time Wurtenburg, at another Halle, at another
Leipzig, has been the inoft flourifhing German
University. One man of distinguished merit in
philosophy, belles lettres,medicine, law, divinity,
draws icliolars from the most dillant parts of
Germany. A number of small States, having the
fame language, tho differing in internal govern
ment and police, from thef'e instances appear to
me to have the highest advantages for improve
ments in arts and sciences, if they are not retard
ed in thepurfuit of perfection by the proud idea
that they have already attained it. This is the
cafe with the agreeable and courteous, but indo
lent and luxurious inhabitants of Vienna, that
metropolis of the hereditary dominions, and they
fancy alio not only the metropolis of Germany,
but the most knowing, cultivated, and improved
city there : In faift the reverse is the cafe. There
is hardly any protestant city there, which they
fall not far ihort of; but, the progress of feience
in other parts of the empire they know not, their
best books having till lately been contraband
goods. Educated by Jesuits, they counted the
fuperficial knowledge imported to them by the
fathers, the very n: plus ultra of science.
From passages in some American papers, I appre
hend that the States are in some danger, from a
fitnilar cause, of not improving, as they ought,
their great natural talents, and high advantages
for improvements in learning. lam sorry some
men of abilities among you speak with so urjnft
contempt of acquaintance with the claifics : To
this the fineft British writers owe a great portion
of their excellence."
LAWS OF THE UNION.
CONGR.ESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand fevert hundred and ninety.
AN ACT for the admiifion of the State of VER-
MONT into this Union.
THE State of Vermont having petitioned the Congress to be
admitted a Member of the United States—
Re ;t eua&ed by the Senate and HouXe of Representatives of the
United States of America in Congress aflfembled, and it is hereby
ena&ed and declared, That, on the Fourth day of March, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one, the said State, bv the
name and style of " The State of Vermont." shall be received
and admitted into the Union, as a new and entire Member of the
United States of America.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Reprefcntatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice,-Prefident of the United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, February eighteenth, 1791.
(-EORGE WASHINGTON, Ptejident qjthe United Stater
(True Copy)
THOMAS. JEFFERSON, Secretary of State
AN ACT to continue in force for a limited time,
an art pafled at the firft session of Congress, en
tituled, " an adl to regulate procefies in the
courts of the United States."
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of th.
United States of America in Congress assembled, That an a£t
pafled on the twenty-ninth day of September, in the year one
lV >oufand seven hundred and eighty-nine, entitled, " an ast to re
gulate proCeff<s in the courts of the United States," fhail be, ann
the fame hereby is continued in force until the end of the next
feflion of Congress. nd nrt longer.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives,
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prefiderit oj'the United States,
and Pre/ident u/ the Senate.
Approved. February eighteenth, 1701.
GEORGE W ASHINGTOX, President of the United States.
(True copy.)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State,
R F-'° L yED, by the Senate and House of Representatives of the
XV United States ofAmei ici in CongreJ) assembled, That Andrew
Brow n, or any other printer, be permitted, under the direttion
■ ; the Secretary of State, to collate with, and correct by the origi
nal rolls, the laws, resolutions and treaties of the United States, to
be by him printed. And that a certiHcale o! their having been
764
Co collated and correfttd, be annexed to the bid rfitiw". PitM
viied. Thai fucft collation and correction be at iheexpence ot(3B
fairf Andrew Brown, or such other printer, and'that (he perfonwl
Iperfons to be by him or them employed in th*t service, beUpraj
proved by the Secretary of State.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG, j]
Speaker oj the House rjKep'cfevtatuxt. ]
JOHN ADAMS, VicesPrefislcit a) the United Staits, <
and President of the Senate.
Arrnovf.D, FrjiswAßr J7 g,. }.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prijidttstof the C'mted States- *,
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADLLPIUA.
PF. R QUANTITY.
FEBRUARY 25.— Dollars at
ANCHORS pr. lb. 6U
> AlJum, Engliih, pr. cwt.
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 10d
A flies, pot, per ton, £5 a-qjJios
Arrack pr. gall. icj 12s (yd
Brandy, common, 7 s6d
Cognise 8f 4d
Braziletto, pr. ton. 12/ a 16/
Bricks pr. M 30s
Bread, Oiip pr. cwt. J 9 J 6
Ditto, pilot ,3,jf
Ditto, small water 45J 48*
Beer, American, in bot. / ,
pr. doz. >
pr. bbl. 30 s
f Oak pr.M feet, 4/1 or 4/18*
0 Merch. pine 4/ ioj 4/ 15s
Sap, do. 2l'.ys6d 3/*
O N.Eng. 2lss 2/ysbd
03 L Cedar 4/ 5s
The above arc the Shallop prices ;
for the Yard p> ices add 15s pr M.
Brimllone m rolls pr. cwt. 241
t*- (I r 1 fli pr. bbl. 555 60/
3 j lirjinn 55f
W ( Country 45*
Buticr pr. lb. 10d fid
in kegs 10d
Cedar,red timber pr.foot 2s2s6d.
Chocolate pr. lb. 1?d
Coal pr. buftiel u Sd
Coffee pr. lb. 1 s 2d
Cinnamon 18s 20s
Caflia $s
Cheese, English i. f 3^
Country 6d 7
f Sprr. pr. lb. 3 J 6d
-i J Wax 3 J
Myrtle Wax is zd
| Mould,tallow nd \9.d
rj L Dipped
Cotton x
Cuirants IS 6 2S
Cloves
CoDperaS nrv-Wt. ljs6d
6OJ 62564
Cocoa 6z>6d 6756 d
DucKß u^a J P r - piece 80s 83s
--—Ravens Is.- 65s jos
./lour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 45J
Common, 4 2s
Bur middlings,beft 35J
Middlings 34*
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. 12s 15s
Flax pr. lb. Sd qd
Fustic pr. ton, 135J 150.C
Feathers pr. lb. 2j q<{
pr. bu(h.
Flaxfeed
7/101 8/
Glue,
pr. cwt,
Ginger, whiterace
Ditto, common 50/
Ditto, ground pr. Ih. i f
Ginfcng, 2 s
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. )
quarter cask, ) 3' ys
Ditto, fine glazed
Gin, Holland, pr. gall. 5s
D-"». pr. cafe, 30J 33J
f Wheat pr. bush B*Ba!6r
!l y e .v
I Oals 1 s 8d 2s 6d
Indian corn 2s6d 31
I Bailey 4 f yd
j Befl shelled 20s
(_ Buckwheat 2(6
Hams pr. lb. yuHd
Hemp, pr.ton, 50/
Hogshead hoops, pr. M 5/ 6/
Herrings, pr. bb!. 20s
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9d 10d
*
Hops 2S Q'l ?s 6d
Indigo, Trench, 7 s 6d 12j
Carolina 4J 7 j
Irons, fad pr. cwt.
f Callings 22s 6d 305
| Bar pr. ton, 29/30/
2 P 'S '0/
5 | Sheet 60/ 65/
(. Nail rods 3(5/
Junk, pr. cwt. 27s Q£r
Lard, hogs gd 10d
Lead in pigs 40J 42.1 6d
'-n bars 6 os
Lead, white Bcj 85.)
red 49 ., 6d
Leather, foal pr. lb. is zd is qd
Lignum vita pr. ton 42s 4,5 r
Logwood y/ j.t 8/
M a], Indian, pr. bbl. 1 gs'
——Rye . 2 8j
Mackorel,boft
Common 30/5816//
pr. lb. 70J
2S 4d
isSd is ad
zsBJ
Mace
Mustard
Madder, belt
Molafles pr. grill
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 13;
Ma ft (pars •
Mahogany 8d \id
Nutmegs pV lb. 6oj 75s
Nails, ic^i?.d&c lod— 8d S^dqd
C LinTeed, pr. gal). 31 gd
1 Train is 10d 2s
Spermaceti 3s yd
1 Whaie 1 s 10d is
g Olive 6s 6d
| Ditto pr. cafe 28.1 30J
Best fwcet in ) CJr
flatks.pr. box, J s°-'6d6os
l_--ba(kets 12 bottles 2&f
Oak timber pr. ton 40/
Porter in casks, pr. gall. 2.r
London,pr.doz.t2i6i 15*
'oftCfjAsnrrican pr. do*, pj
'-.tch, pr. ob]. lor
Pork, Burlington, *"~V>
■— ; —Lower county 7csß-f
Carolina £0*
las, Albany 7 sGd K $ SA j
Pepper, pr. Ib. zs ad
Pimento , s f j
Rice pr. cwf. «>2s
Rofm pr. |)bl. 2 - s
Raifros, best, pr. keg r^ s
D'Ho pr. jar '.> 2f
■itto pr. box
r Jamaica pr. gall. s 'j 6i
M j Antrg'Ja
j Windward
g *, J4arh<idors 41 jj
j Country, N. E. 3 s 31 id
LTaflfia 2J4J 2s 6d
SafTafras pi*, ton 40 fox
Saltpetre, pr. cvvf. 6/10*
Sulphur, flour 40141 c
Shot ' £ 0f
(German pr. rwt t 60*70/
uj jEnglifh, bliftercd 82s Gd
pr. ton
(Crowley's or. fa%. 4/10s
Snake root pr. lb. ij 6d 2s 8d
Soap, Common cd 6d
■ Hrftwn 6d
Caflile 8i qd
Starch nij
Snuff \s6 i zsAd £s6d
Spermaceti, rrHivd. gj
Sail Clcxh, Erwlifli, } . , " >
pr. yard, $ ls6d 2Szd
Bolton, No. I. 2.fQi
No. 11. is id
Ruflin fh eating, pr. p. go/
['Lump, pr. lb. is
d j Loaf, finale refined is6d
J <j Ditto, double do.
j~. , Havannah, white 11 d
oo j Ditto, brown, Sd iod
lMufcovada,pr.cwt.
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall, jjqi
f Allum pr. bulb.
►J 2 j 4i
< Cadiz 0/
°° ( Lisbon is^disbd
Ship buiid. W.O. frames'; 80/
P- ton, g of
Do. 1.0. & red C. do. 6/6/5*
Shingles, short, p. M. 15/20/
long dreficd goiioo/
■ing, heart, 90/150/
d P 4 2J 4,5- f
Scan:
17
M I
r»• r . i""
rip? pr. i!>oo pieccs iti
'* » /I J »
5' 3 d
W. O. hogshead
) R. O. do.
52 s6d
< | Leogan
K Barrel
L Heading
Otter, bed pr. piece 30. iT
Minks 3s6d $r
Fox, grey 2 » 6d 6/
red 6j js6d
If)
Martins
j~ <{ Fibers 2s6dss
r £ Bears 12s6d 25s
Racoons ?..f 4/
Musk-rats ts6d
I Beaver, pr. lb. 5/ icj
L Deei, in hair u6d 9Ssd
, Xar,NJ. Jersey, r>4 gal. p. bbl. qt
— I —Carolina, 32 galJ. 13(6d
Turpentine 17 sSd
— Spirits, pr.gall. 3/ qd
• f J aniFS K. new belt 3256 i
•£ -— inferior 23/25/
o old • 35/ 38/
Rappahannock 22 s6d
O J Colo. Maryland 40J 60/ •
Dark 90s
Long-leaf 20s
S3 Kaftern-lhore 15/ 16/
1 Carolina, new 23/2,5/ /
I | old 3Q.f
1 Hyson pr. lb. ysSjqd-j
c/a. I Hyson fk'n, 4/ 4/ 6d !
Souchong, bed 7s6dßt
H ! Congo, 3 J ?<*
L-Bohea, 2J 6d
Tallow, refined 9^
Tin pr. box, 110/ 112s 6d
Verdigreafe pr. Ib. 4^4 s 6d
Vermillion, HS.^d
Varnish, 2.f 2/ 3d
f Madeira, pr. pipe 40/80/
• Lisbon 38/
Teneriffe 22/io.f 24/
Fayal pr. gall, r^sid3J
Port pr. pipe 39/ 42/
Ditto pr. gall. sslo(t5 sl0( t
Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 30/
Claret 30/ 45.C
Sherry pr. gall. 6s yd 9*
Malaga 4*
. Bees pr. lb. 2J 2s
le-bone, long pr. lb.
fliort, pr. lb.
• J
2 *
1 £
1
t
Wax.
Whai
COURSE OF EXCHAXCE,
Bills of Exchange, London,
90 days, 70
Ditto 60 days 725
Ditto 30 days 74
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 2JII 3 f
30 days gs id
France, 60 ,diya,pr. t j; jiv. (i.r 8i
30 davs 61 jctf
-;.V
7' 5'
5 l 5 f
s''s s
4 / i s .t
8/1 os