PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 85, of Vol. II.;
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
An ACT making appropriations for the support
of Government during the year one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-one, and for other
purposes.
BE it enatted by the Senate and House of Reprcfentativss of the Uni
ted States of America in Congress AJfembled, That there be ap.
propriated the several funis, and for the several purposes follow
ing, to wit ; A furn not exceeding two hundred and ninety-nine
thousand two hundred and seventy-six dollars and fifty-three cents,
for defraying the expenses of the civil lift, as estimated by the Se
cretary of the Treasury, in the statement, number one, accompa
nying his report to the house of Representatives of the sixth inft.
including the contingencies of the several executive officer s, and of
the two Houses of Congress, which are hereby author'zed and
granted : a sum not exceeding fifty thousand seven hundred and
fifty-fix dollars and fifty three cents, for fatisfying the several ob
jects fpecified in the statement, number two, accompanying the
report aforcfaid, all such whereof, as may uot have been hereto
fore provided for by law, being hereby authorized : and a sum
not exceeding three hundred and ninety thousand one hundred
and ninety-nine dollars and four cents, for the use of the depart
ment of war, pursuant to the statement, number three, accompa
nying the report aforefaid, including therein the sum of one hun
dred thousand dollars, for defraying the expenses of an expediti
on lately carried on against certain Indian tribes; and the sum of
eighty-seven thousand four hundred and sixty-three dollars and
sixty cents, be ing the amount of one year's pensions to invalids,
together with the contingencies of the said department, which are
hereby authorized : Which several sums shall be paid out of the
funds following, namely, the sum of fix hundred thousand dollars,
which, by the ast, intituled, " An ast making provision for the
debt of the United States," is reserved yearly for the support of
the government of the United States, and their common defence ;
the amount of such furplufles as may remain in the treasury, after
fatisfying the purposes for which appropriations were made, by
the acts refpeftively, intituled, <{ An ast making appropriations
for the service of the present year," passed the twenty-ninth day
of September, one thousand seven hundred and eighty-nine ; " An
ast making appropriations for the support of government for the
year one thousand seven hundred and ninety," passed the twenty
fixth day of March, one thousand seven hundred and ninety ; "An
ast making certain appropriations therein mentioned," pafftd the
twelfth day of August, one thousand seven hundred and ninety,and
the product, during the present year, of such duties as shall be
laid in the present feflion of Congress.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Representatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United
and Prejident of the Senate.
Approved, February eleventh, 1791.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Piefident of the United States.
(Tru£ Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
from the CONNEC fICLTT COURANT
THE lower house of the Pennsylvania aflem
bly has voted to fignify to their Senators in
Congress their desire, that r.o ad: of Congress for
levying an excise, which fliould be subversive of
the liberties of the people, might pass that body.
As good government, order, and public credit
are yet in their infancy, it is proper that the
meaning and tendency of this vote should be con
sidered.
This branch of the Afl'embly mull intend, by
their vote, one of three things—either that the
excise ast before Congress would, if pafled into
a law, be subversive of liberty ; or that it would
not be subversive of it : or, without giving any
opinion op that point, they mean merely to cau
tion their senators against aflenting to any im
proper a(ft.
Let lis examine thelaft supposition firft—lf the
Aflembly had formed an opinion, it is strange
they should conceal it ; especially on a matter
■which relates, as they pretend, to the subversion
of liberty, and therefore demands truth and
plain dealing. If they had not formed an opin
ion on the fubjecft, why should they fay any thing
about it ? Why Ihould thofc offer advice and cau
tion who are tliemfelves in the dark—whofejudg
ment is not yet made up, and who can give com
mon place counsel only, which would fit any pub
lic body, or any public ac r t, as well as that in
queflion ? The spelling-book, the primer, and
the aflembly's catechifni, abound with nfeful
rules for faith and practice. It is to be hoped
that molt of our public men have read them, and
therefore the Aflbmbly's warning against fin and
tyranny, and the excise, might have been saved
to adorn the next year'* almanac, where it would
Saturday, February 19, 1791-
be as much in place and season. Jbut if they will
give away spiritual advice toCongrefs, it may be
proper to make a cafe of conscience of it, and to
enquiie, whether it was right to publilh advice
which is so very liable to be misinterpreted and
abused.
If the Afl'embly did not mean to exprels any
opinion, with refpeift to the ac r t before Congrels,
why did they use terms which may lead some to
suppose that they condemn that bill as fubverfifce
of liberty, and others to be alarmed with doubts
and fears, as if such blind resolutions had given
warning that there was a snake in the grass ?—
We are advised to think twice before we speak
once ; but here they seem to aflert several things
without having thought or enquired at all. Does
it become men in power to resolve at random ?
to raise doubts and fears and jealousies in the so
ciety >. Surely a sense of duty does not demand
that they ihould raise an opposition to an atft,
which, for ought they know or aflert to the con
trary, may be a very good one. It is the part of
meannels, of a tale-bearer, and disturber of the
peace, to deal in blind hints, and cautious slan
der, which the law will not take hold of. If they
know any thing against the bill, why have they
not told it ? Will the world be the wiser for their
doubts or their ignorance ?
But perhaps the force of these observations
will be taken off by renouncing the supposition,
(whicn we have been examining) that they did
not mean to give any opinion for or againlt the
bill, and by letting up the next point, to make
i t appear that they had formed a decided opinion
in favor of the excise bill.
Then why did they not fay so ?—But cannot
Congress give due weight to its doings without
a vote of the Pennsylvania Aflembly ? Has the
conltitution, or the sense of America fattened
that clog upon its legislature ? It was, indeed,
expected of the arbitrels of the union that Ihe
would claim amodeft share of influence over Con
gress. The Excise Acft, when palled, will appear
with only the usual attestations, and we shall be
puzzled to find out whether Pennsylvania likes
it or not. Many will make bold to think, after
all, that an atft of Congress is valid without a
vote of the Alfembly—and they will argue from
that circmnftance, and from the peevishness of
the terms of the refolurions, that they were not
intended in praise of the nieafure, but on the con
trary —If a censure of the excise was intended,
they deserve a different notice. Honest men !—
you who favored the adoption of this govern
ment—and you who live prosperously and hap
pily under it, almost without feeling the taxes it
has imposed, it is time for you to look about you,
and to fee what is the tendency of these things.
You formed the constitution because you loved
your country : If you only love yourselves, you
will maintain it.
The power of imposing excises is veiled in
Congress by the constitution. The Assembly of
Pennlylvauia either dillike the power itfelf, as
given by the conltitution, or the form in which
the bill betore Congress proposes to exercise it.
All men agree that no excise was ever so niild,
or so well guarded against abuse. The obnox
ious qualities of an excise are excluded from it
lurely their inodefty will not allow them to
fay, that their state excise atft is to be preferred
to —that indeed is far from being unexception
able. If they dillike any clause of the bill, why
have they not pointed it out, instead of condemn
ing it in the gross ?
Will they dare to fay, that the bill is as well
guarded as it can be, but they are against the
power itfelf, however modified .'—Why then did
i hey ratify the constitution ?—Why have they
since iolemnly sworn to support it ?—lf they are
publishing resolutions against the constitution it
felf, it is proper that we should know how to un
derstand them.
Enlightened people of America! your painful
experience has stripped politics of its mystery,
and you can judge for yourselves, what is the
tendency or two rival bodies debating on the
fame national measure, in the fame street, and
at the fame time, and each weighing the argu
ment that the revenue was unneceflary, the af
fairs of the Union not demanding such supply.
if they re.olve alike, the labor of one body is
plainly loft ; for why should two be engaged in
doing the work of one ? If they should resolve
differently, as it is probable they will, are not
your interests ) and piact, brought into danger.
753
»
[Whole No. i 89.]
The exercise of the united wisdom and talent s
of your servants in Congress is your right. Isth e
Pennsylvania Aflembly to revifeand fuperinten''
their doings ? Was that Aflembly cliofen for th e
Union? Have the estimates and reports of th c
public officers been laid before them ? Did
carefully discuss the merits of the bill they liav e
condemned—Nay, did they so much as hear i 1
read—or did they decide upon it in the dark ?
And yet these are the men—and this is the so
lemn decision which you are to trust in prefer
ence to Congress. Uutil Congress ihall become
corrupt and treacherous, their power is your
power : But if the Afl'embly can prevent their
acfting, or pretend to revise, or to create oppo
sition to their doings, they become the superior
body—they make your representatives like a
county court, with an appeal to the Aflembly.
The people it is very true, may remonstrate
against the doings of government ; but why
should that AfTembly do it for them ?—All wis
dom is not shut up within their walls.—Our peo
ple know their rights, and that one of them is,
to remonstrate and complain to the legislature,
and this right is rendered familiar by long usage.
And who gave the Aflembly a right to censure
the proceedings of Congress i The constitution ?
That has not said a word about it. Do they de
rive it from the nature of their office of repre
sentatives ? Congress also is composed of our re
presentatives, whom we chose because we thought
we could trust—Then they have an equal right
! to pass a vote of censure on the ails of the As
sembly, and to tell them to mend their high
ways, and to reform their law proceedings.—
They may tell them thattheir neglectof obliging
towns to maintain schools, is subversive of the li
berties of the people, by keeping them in ignor
ance of what their liberties are. And what is to
be the result of this mutual reproach and fault
finding ? More harmony and good order in the
society, and a better discharge of duty in both
bodies ! Or, government against government,
a house divided against itfelf, faiftion, animosity,
civil war and anarchy ?
If Congress should do wrong, the people will
fufFer.—Why should the Aflembly interpose as a
legislature ? If their corporate rights are inva
ded, they may very properly remonstrate, and
seek other measures of redress : The oppreflion
of the excise will not fall upon aflemblies, but up
on individuals. The right of complaining of
personal wrongs, belongs to him only who feels
them : It is a right which he cannot delegate,
before hand, to another to ufeforhim, at difcre
tion—for the agent might complain when the
principal would not. Shall an aflembly arrogate
to itfelf the office of judging for men, whether
they fuffer or not ? Even the most stupid can
judge of this for themselves. The right of the
people as well as the power of Congress is nar
rowed by this aflumed office of the Aflembly.
And why is it exercised by the Aflembly ? Is op
preflion felt > Are any people in the world more
free, enlightened, or profperows ? Why then do
they blow the trumpet ? Were they chosen by
us, to declare, in riddles, the grievances of a
people, who are perfectly fatisfied ? But know,
countrymen, that this Aflembly, which guards
your liberties, unasked, against an excise, has
fuffered one to operate, without question, in Penn
sylvania, near half a century. They forgot the
liberties of Pennsylvania, and with a spirit truly
national, take care ofthofe of other states.
Is not this intermeddling with Congress fufc
verfive of your interefis also ? Suppose their influ
ence should prevent the pafl'age of the excise ast,
the revenue rnuft be had to provide for your just
debts If they will not fuffer you to provide for
thein by a tax upon luxuries, and upon the most
pernicious of luxuries, spirituous liquors, a tax
111 uit be levied upon your lands and houses.
Should discontented persons take courage from
this vote to oppose a measure, which, they pre
tend, is subversive of liberty, with force, what
falls short in the revenue must be made up by the
people. What poflible ad vantage can the people
derive from this conduift of the aflenibly, thus
legislating upon legislation \ Will it vindicate
their rights ? That, the people have fenle and
spirit enough to do for themselves. Will it come
in aid of the laws of the union ? Thank heaven
the days of anarch}' and governing by recom
mendation are past—or, finally, shall the ailem
bly pass votes to censure and counteraift yournational laws ? Why fnall a power be ufdd at all,
which is always pernicious, when it is not use
less ?
Wliat then will become of the peace of the
country? Is it not scattering fire-brands among
you, to fend abroad your laws with a stigma upon
them, to have an ill name go before them, such
as the aflem'oly (hall think fit to give them ? What
is the fiift step towards overturning the govern
ment of this country ? To deltroy the confidencc
of the convince them that their affairs
go wrong, and are managed by men and upon
principles which it is a virtue to oppofe —a peo
ple in whose hands the goverment is, will delay
adling only till they are so convinced. As soon
as the county convention, in Mafl'achufetts, in
I 786, began to vote the measures of the govern
ment grievances, that state was lhaken to its
centre—lt is turning the principle of life into a
peftiler.ce—it is arming the right hand against
the left. Society cannot be managed but by re
presentatives, chosen to acft for the common good
— The choice implies trnft and confidence—But
when one set of representatives set up a cry against
another, as tyrants and oppreflors, what but un
certainty and confufion can ensue ? And what
security is there that this cry will not be set up
sometimes by an aflembly without cause ? Will
Congress always be in the wrong ? Will the body
which has information from all partsof the union
laid on its table, be more apt to err than another
body, which has no such general information,
and is not at all bound to make up any judgment
tipon it? Will the elecflion of a senator or repre
sentative to Congrefi never tincture their reso
lutions with a party hue ? Will envy or fear of
the power of Congress, or the ambition tofnatch
a part of it, never find an entrance within the
walls of the state-house ? It is a found principle
to be jealous of power—it is equally true that
power will be jealous for itfelf. If it is natural
for every body to attempt extending its own ju
rifdi<stion, it seems to follow that the aflemblies
ftiould not pals votes of censure on the ads of
Congress—The people only will exercise that
power of revision with impartiality—lt is their
province to watch all their public bodies—For,
as the people molt govern by their representa
tives, thay will have no inducement to make en
croachments upon any of them.
The question concerns the peace of this coun
try—The people have a right to judge, and
thailks to our forefathers who established schools,
they have sense enough to decide it Shall the
aflembly of Pennsylvania, as it were, snatch the
bufiuefs off the table of Congress ? Shall they
like reviewers, draw before them a law of the
union, and make it depend for its pafiage, and
its execution when pafled, on their criticism ?
Shall the whole be governed by its parts ? Con
gress is a government over governments —Sup-
pose they (hould all adopt the measures of Penn
sylvania, and undertake to decide upon the af
fairs of the nation, confufion of counsels would
be the firft effetfl, as dear experience has alrea
dy taught us. If we escaped ruin before, it was
because the adoption of the constitution saved
us from it.—The people will readily fee, that
the peace of the country requires that the seve
ral governments fhouldkeep within their respec
tive limits ; without fufFering one to encroach
upon the bulinefs afligned by the constitution to
the other.
A people, who have To long enjoyed liberty,
■would be wretched without it—Long may it fen
dure—and what, but breaking the union, can de
stroy it ? The bed principle in the politics of
this country is, the firm union of its parts under
one efficient government. What other barrier is
therebetween ns and anarchy? Itis our onlychance
for maintaining our liberties, and for becoming
great. Things are in so prosperous a train,that
if we preserve our present happy conftitution,we
can scarce fail of becoming thegreateft and hap
pielt nation that ever existed ; but if we should
io relax the government of the union that the
band which binds the (tatis together should be
snapped asunder, we should probably become
uetts of petty barbarians, making spoil upon one
another. So degraded and corrupted as to de
lerve all we Ihould fufFer, and futficiently dispo
sed to perform the work of vengeance for provi
dence, by mutually inflicting all we should de-
serve
Extrafi from j'tdge Grt mke's charge to the graud
Jury, Camden DiJlrM.
IT is with much fatisfacflion that I refutne the
judicial duties of this diftriift. After so long
a period has elapsed lince 1 have had the honor
of addreflingyourpannel, and after theneceffary
retirement to a northern climate on account of
the infirmity of my health, I receive additional
pleasure in recommencing the usual functions of
my cominiflion.
But grateful as these considerations are to me
individually, there are others of a public nature
which will contribute to heighten our feelings,
and to warm our hearts. The present situation
of South-Carolina, whether viewed as a coinpo
Charleston, Dec. 27
nent part of the federal union, or in its natural
| independent state tinder our own conftitulion af
fords ample relief to the political eye by the
bright profpeits now opening upon us. The act
of Congress afliiming so coniiderable an amount
as four million of dollars of our debt, relieves
us from the difficult alternative of overburthen
ing our constituents with taxes to discharge the
interest thereon, or of ruining a number of in
nocent fufferers by withholding that payment
from them. It is an acft of the firft importance
to our state. It enables us to maintain our pub
lic faith and rescues us from the disgrace of a na
tional bankruptcy ; nor will the effects of this
statute be confined alone to the public—but each
individual will partake of the benefits ofitscon
fequences : many in finding the above mention
ed sum realized in their hands, and others, that
such a value will be stamped on our securities as
to give them a currency and circulation through
the state. The honcft man who finds himfelf
enibarraUed in his circumstances if polfefled of
this paper, will be enabled readily to relieve
hiinfelf from his unworthy situation : or if his
property fliould chance to be expofedfor fale,he
will atleaft have the farisfaction of feeing it pur
chased at a fair price ; for there can be but little
doubt that such an accession of paper, with our
proportion of the debt due by the United States
to our citizens, [besides the annual amount of in
tereft, amounting at least to 250,000 dollars) ri
ling at once in the hands of our inhabitants and
serving as a negotiable medium, will augment
the price of property in a very considerable de
gree : and altho' this will not have any immedi
ate effect, nevertheless we shall feel the advanta
ges resulting from it in a year or two, when the
interest on our assumed debt begins to be paid.
It is with peculiar pleasure thereforelthat I anti
cipate the fruits of this wife measure ripening
into maturity, and serving as the basis of reconci
ling to the federal union the minds of those ho
nest citizens, who at firft were opposed to the
constitution of government under whieh we now
live, and I may add flourifti.
As to our domefticftate affairs, we may rejoice
with uplifted hands and grateful hearts for the
peaceable manner in which we have been ena
bled to alter our constitution, and for the benign
and happy spirit of accommodation which disco
vered itfelf in the framers thereof. 1 believe
that there were but very few persons, if any in
the convention, who were diflatisfied with the
principles ingrafted into the constitution. For
each party generously facrificing somewhat of
their own opinions, heartily strove by mutual
concession to render itasperfetft as possible. The
result of their wisdom, their deliberation and
their liberality was unanimously ratified, the
members of every part of our country giving
their aflent thereto in the moll unequivocal man
ner.
Philadelphia, Feb. 19.
It has been said that the circum fiances of the
United States are so diverse from those of Eng
land, at the time of the institution of the national
bank in that country, that no reason for the in
stitution in this country can be drawn from
thence. The pleasing profpcdts of the United
States, are said to fupercede the neceflicy of a na
tional bank. But a correspondent observes, that
the argument in favor of the institution, in his
opinion, derives additional force from the above
representation. If a bank, instituted at a time
of general distress, has been found tobeproduc.
tive of such extensive advantages, as acknow
ledged in respect to the bank of England—what
benefits may not be expe(ted to result to the
United States from a bank-institution, in a time
of profound peace, and at the moment when the
country is rising in prosperity, encreafing in po
pulation, and continually appreciating initscre
dit, resources and revenue.
A correspondent observes, that the provision
proposed to be made by some of the States for
the unaffumed part of the State debts, is a mea
lure of a dubious complexion; so far as it ori
ginates in a tender concern for the State creditors,
it is to be applauded—but in proportion as it is
founded on the idea of State sovereignty's being
eflentially conneited with making the people feel
the concurrent powers of the State and general
governments in taxation, it will be found impo
litic and unpopular. The State creditors would
do well to reflect, whether it would not be more
for their interest to depend altogether on the
general government ; they have no reason to
anticipate much from the particular States, from
past experience, and their prospects will not be
brightened by a division of the power, necellary
to doing them compleat justice-
PORTSMOUTH, Feb. 2.
• Tl J. e address of his excellency Alexander Mar
tin Efq Governor of North-Carolina, presented
to both houses of the general Afl'embly of that
Itnte, on the 2d of November last", contains the
following:
754
" The atft of Congrefi fur" the assumption of
the debts of the individual states without their
particular consent, or application of the citizens
for this purpose, seems to exhibit at an eailv pe
riod, a new and unexpected precedent of legilla
tion in the federal government : How the
fame may involve in it the independence and in
ternal sovereignty of the (tare, 1 shall not under
take to discuss ; but mult presume the principles
of pure and equal jufticj- dictated, in that honor
able body, this extraordinary measure !"
The Rev. Dr. Peters, formerly of Hebron in
Connecticut, is expected thortly to take charoe
of theprovince of Quebec, as Bishop.
The Rev. Dr. Bass, having resigned his elec
tion as Bishop ; that office will probably be giv
en to the Rev. Doctor Parker, of Bolton, iifre
ftimony of the affection and esteem of the Church,
and in gratitude tor his many important fervices
to her, in days of diftref's.
The Rev. Uzal Ogden, of Newark, in New-
Jersey, is also a candidate for cortfecration a?
Bishop of the Churches in that state.
A correspondent observes, he is happy in hear
ing that a committee of the honorable legislature
of this state are now considering the subject of
establishing pod-roads and polt-riders through
the state. The advantages which would refulc
to the citizens at large from such an establish
ment, are many and obvious—an early and ex
peditious communication would be kept up—the
people would be better informed of the proceed
ings of their rulers—and a vast Hiving would be
made to the state by having its business increas
ed, owing to the regular intercourse which the
eftablifliment alluded to cannot fail of producing
—It is notorious that hundreds of'pounds are an
nually loft to the state for want of such an ar
rangement.
Quere. is not the general government in a
fair way of being fuperceded in the business of
the union ?
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
TUESDAY, Feb. i.
THE engrolled bill to incorporate the subscri
bers to the bank of the United States, was
read the third time—and on the question, Shall
this bill pass ?
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) observed, that the bill be
ing taken up rather unexpectedly yesterday, gen
tlemen did not appear prepared to dif'culs the
fubjeft—lt therefore was fuffered to be read in
committee of the whole, and parted to the third
reading in his opinion rather informally—as the
members were thereby deprived of giving their
sentiments in the usual manner on a bill of the
greatest importance. He thought it susceptible
of various amendments. The Speaker having;
observed, that the bill, agreeable to the rules of
the house, could not be amended without being
re-committed, Mr. Smith moved, that the bill
should be re-committed, for the purpose of mak
ing sundry alterations, and removing objections
which he thought the bill liable to. lie then
enumerated ieveral objections : Those who are
to receive the fubferiptions, he said, by the bill
are not obliged to give any bonds for their fideli
ty : He thought the clause which excludes fo
reigners from voting by proxy, exceptionable—
and the time in which fublcriptions are to be re
ceived, he thought too contracted.
Mr. Jackson said he was in favor of the motion,
for are commitment; but not for the reasons of
fered by thegentleman from South Carolina. He
was. he said, opposed to the principle of the bill
altogether. He then adverted to the fituanon
of the United States, and observed, that it was so
different from that of Great Britain, at the time
the bank was eftablilhed in that country, that no
reason in favor of the institution can he deduced
from thence. He adverted to the arguments ari
sing from the facility which banks afford of an
ticipating the public resources in cases of emer
gency. This idea of anticipations he reprobated,
as tending to involve the country in debt, and an
endless labyrinth of perplexities. This plan of
a national bank, said he, is calculated to benefit
a small part of the United States, the mercantile
interest only—the farmers, the yeomanry, will
derive no advantage from it—as the bank bills
will not circulate to the extremities of the Union.
He said he had never seen a bank bill in the state
of Georgia—nor will they ever benefit the far
mers ofthat state, or of New-Hampihire. He ur
ged that there was no neceifity for instituting a
New Bank: There is one already established in
this city, under the stile of the Bank of North-
America—This propofedlnftitution isan infringe
ment of the charter of that batik, which cannot
be jtiftified. He urged the unconftitutionalityof the plan—called it n monopoly— fucli an one
as contravenes the spirit of the conftitntion a
monopoly of a very extraordinary nature—a
monopoly of the public monies for the benefit o(
the corporation to be created. He then read
several paflages from the Federalist, which he said
were direiftly contrary to the aflumption of the
power propoied by the bill : He hoped theiefoie
that it would be re-committed—andliecould not
help hoping also, that it would be deferred to
the next fetiion
Mr. Lawrance obfervetl, that the friends of
the lnftitution proposed, had been tinjuftly char
ged with precipitating the bill—but he (aid it had
been long in the hands of the members—they have
had time to conlider it—the usual forms have been
observed in its progress thus far—and if those
who are opposed to the bill did not fee proper to
pome forward with their it surely is
their own fault, and the advocates of the bill are
not justly chargeable with precipitancy. He then
particularly replied to the objections offered by
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) and afrer considering them
said, that those objections did not, in his opinion,
constitute fulficient reasons to induce are-commit
ment of the bill He then noticed the constitu
tional objections of Mr. and said, the
government of the United States is vested by the
constitution with a power of borrowing money—
and in pursuance of this idea, they have a right
to create a capital, by which they may, with
greater facility, carry the power of borrowing
on any emergency into effect. Under the late
confederation, the Pennsylvania Bank, called the
Bank of North-America, was instituted : He pre
sumed that it will not be controverted, that the
present government is vested with powers equal
to those of the late confederation. He said that
he had no doubt its operation would benefit not
only the centre, but the extremities also of the
Union : The commercial, mechanical and agri
cultural interests of the U uited States are so com
bined, that one cannot be benefited without be
nefiting the other. He concluded by observing,
that he thought the legislature of the United
States could not better answer thepurpofes of their
appointment than by patting this bill: He hoped
therefore, that it would not be re-cominitted,
but that it would now pass.
Mr. Lee observed, that having been confined
by sickness, he was precluded from attending
the house yesterday ; but ilck as he was, had he
supposed that there was a prospeCt of a bill of such
jn?<rnitudeand importance palling without a dif
cufllon of its principles, he certainly would have
attended, and offered his objections to various
parts of it, which he thought very exceptionable.
He hoped therefore it would now be re commit
cd that a bill which is so unequal and so partial,
may undergo a thorough difculfion.
Mr. Tucker was in favor of a re-comrnitrnent.
He acknowledged that those who had their ob
jections to the bill were certainly blameable for
not coming forward with them yesterday. He
then dated sundry objections to the bill : The
time allowed to receive the fubferiptions he said
is too short, and will benefit those only in the vi
cinity of the bank : The clause which authorizes
the loaning 100,000 dollars to the government,
without express provision by law, he thought ex
ceptionable, as the executive will be able by this
means to borrow at any time, without being au
thorised, to aim oft any amount, of the bank : The
loan of 2,000,000 by the United States to the
bank he objected to, as diverting that sum from
the particular objeCt for which it was borrowed.
There is no appropriation said he, of the half
vearly dividend of profits accruing to the United
States, which he observed, was a very eflential
defeCt. Mr. Tucker ftatecKother objections, as
reasons for a re-commitment.
Mr. Williauifon was in favor of the re-commit
ment, togivethofe who fay they have not had an
opportunity of offering their objections, time
to do it ; and if the motion is not agreed to, he
should not give his vote for the bill : He then ad
verted to the objections deduced from theconfti
tution, and explained the claule refpe<!ling mo
nopolies as refering altogether to commercial
monopolies.
Mr. Sherman objected to the re-commitment.
He said that tho the bill could not be amended
•without its being re-committed, yet it was open
to discussion and objection previous to taking a
■vote on if parting. He did not think the
objections offered afforded fufficient reasons for a
re-commitment. He replied to the observations
offered by several gentlemen who had spoken in
favor of the motion.
]\lr. Gerry exprefled hi surprize at the obier
vations of gentlemen who had neglected to offer
their objections to the bill before and said it
could only be imputed to their own neglect,and
not to any precipitancy on the part of the friends
of the bill.—Mr. Gerry noticed the several ob
jections which had been offered, and said if no
thing more important could be offeied, he
thought it would be unjullifiable in the houle
to go into a committee.
Mr. Madison observed that at this moment it
was not ot importance to determine how it has
happened that the objections which frvetal gen
tlemen now fay they have to offer, agamit the_bii j
—were not made at the proper time—it is tutn
cient for them if the candor of the house faould
lead them now to recommit the bill, that in a
committee of the whole they may have an op
portunity to offer their objections.
Mr. Ames replied to Mr. Madifori—he laid he
did not conceive that the appeal now made to the
candor of the house, was in point the gent e
men who object to the bill had an opportunity
to offer their objections—the customary forms
have been attended to —and the whole quelxion
for the re-commitment turns on the force oft e
objections which are now offered to the genet a
principles of the bill altogether —the candor o
the house he conceived was intirely out of the
question, and therefore not to be appealed to, but
the justice due to their constituents in the proper
discharge of the duty reposed in them. —He said
itappeared to him absurd co go into a committee
of the whole to determine whether thebill is con
stitutional or not : If it is unconstitutional, that
amounts to a rejection of it altogether.
Mr. Madison thought there was the greatest
propriety in difcufling a conftitutidnal question
in the committee of the whole.
Mr. Stone and Mr. Giles were in favor of the
re-commitment: They objected to the unconsti
tutionality of thebill, and to several of its parti
cular clauses. _ _
Mr. Vining said he thought it was a subject or
congratulation, that the bill was in its present fi
tuation —it liad happily palled to the third read
ing without that tedious difcuflion, which bills
usually receive—the subject has been a consider
able time before the houle, and gentlemen have
had time to contemplate it—thebill is now in the
stage to which gentlemen very usually refer ve
theinfelves toftate their objections at large, and
he hoped they would now do it—He was not per
fectly fatisfied as to the constitutional point—he
therefore hoped gentlemen would state their ob
jections, that those who are fatisfied on that point
may offer their reasons.
Mr. Boudinot stated the process of the busi
ness yesterday. He observed that he had then
the honor to be in the chair, he had read the
bill very diltinctly and deliberately,with proper
pauses ; he thought that the fulleit opportunity
had been offered for gentlemen to come forward
with their objections, he was opposed to the re
commitment, as it would he feared ifliiein a de
feat of the bill this felfion ; he had one difficul
ty however respecting the uncoiiftitutionality of
the bill, this he hoped to have removed—and he
hoped 'that a full difcuflion of its general prin
ciples would take place.
The motion for a re-commitment was loft.
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 16.
SUNDRY petitions were presented, read and
referred.
The report of the Secretary at War on several
petitions, which had been referred to him, was
read and laid on the table.
Mr. Vining presented a memorial from a ntim
ber of refpecftable merchants of the city of Phi
ladelphia, praying that no additional duty be
laid on goods imported from China. Read, and
laid on the table
A bill providingforthe reimbursement ofCapt.
(Ofliua Barney's expences, incurred in effecting
nis escape from captivity, and returning to this
country, was reported by the committee appoint
ed, read a firft and second time, and made the
order of the day for to-morrow.
The committee appointed to enquire into the
administration of the late fuperintendant of fi
nance, made a report, which was read, and or
dered to lie on the table.
Mr. Floyd of the committee on enrolled bills,
presented the bill for the adiniflion of the State
of Vermont, into the Union—A refolntion con
taining the regulations which printers mufl con
form to in printing authenticated copies of the
laws of the United States, pursuant to the report
of the Secretary of State on the memorial of
Andrew Brown, and a third to continue in force
an ast palled the firlt feflion ofCongrefs, for the
regulation of procefles in the federal courts, all
which he reported duly enrolled.
An engrolted bill for the eltablifhment of offi- j
ces to dispose of certain public lands, was read a |
third time, the blanks filled up, and the bill
palled. The principal blank, (the price of the
land) was filled up with 2J cents, hard money.
On motion of Mr. Giles, the report of the
committee on the petition of George Gibfon,
was taken up for a second reading—and on mo
tion for appointing a committee to bring in a
bill confot mable to said report —it palled in the
negative.
Mellage from the President—read in the House
of Representatives of the United States on
Monday lalt.
United' States, February 14, 1791.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
House of Representatives,
SOON after I vim called to the administration of
the government, I found it importaut t» come to an
755
underflanding with the court of London, on several
points interejting to the United States, and particular
ly to know whether they were disposed to enter into ar
rangements, by mutual consent, -which might fix the
commerce between the two nations on principles of re
ciprocal advantage. For this purpose J authorised
informal conferences with their minijiers ; and from
these Jdo not infer any disposition on their part, to
enter into any arrangements 7nerely commercial. I
have thought it proper to give you this information,
as it might atfome time have influence on mattersun
deryour confidsration.
THURSDAY, Feb. 17.
Mr. Sedgwick reported a bill for giving effect
to the lawsof the United States, within theftate
of Vermont—read the firft and second time, and
referred to a committee of the whole house to-
morrow
The petition of Joseph Nicholafon—late inter
preter to the fix nations, in the service of the
United States, praying a l'ettlement of his ac
count, for services—was read and referred to the
Secretary of the Treasury.
The order of the day being called for, which
was, to go into a committee of the whole house
on the amendments propofedby the Senate to the
new revenue bill, .
Mr. Livermore moved that the committee of
the whole {hould be discharged ; this being se
conded by Mr. Sherman,
Mr. Jackson objected to the motion as contrary
to the late rule of the house for committing,
amendments proposed by the Senate to bills.
He adverted to the amendments, to shew from
their importance, the necessity of giving them a
full difcuflion.
The question being taken, the committee was
discharged.
The house then proceeded to consider said
amendments —the principal part of which were
agreed to, but the time did not admit of linifhing
the difcuflion this day. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, Keb. 18.
A resolution for referring to a feleft committee the feverai re
ports on petitions and memorialsfrom the Secretary at War, in or
der to preparing a bill or bills making provision in the feverai
cases, on which Ithe reports were in favor of {he petitions, was,
alter a (hort difcuflion, negatived.
A meflage was received from the President of the United Slates,
informing the house, that he had received trom the Secretary ot
State, an account of the proceedings of the governor ol the
Wcftcrn Territory, refpefting certain (ettlements on the lanas in
that country, The papers accompanying this message were
read and laid on the table.
Sundry petitions were read and referred.
A meflage from the Senate by Mr. Secretary Otis, informed the
house. that the bill for the admiflion of Vermont into the Union,
has received the approbation and signature of the President of the
United States.
The house resumed the confideretion of the amendments pro
posed by the Senate to the new Revenue Bill. The debates
continued till after three o'clock ; and an adjouinmentbeing called
for, took place without compleating the diicuflion.
Adjourned till to-morrow.
WESTERN TERRITORY
" T)RAY what's the worth of any thing,
Jl But as mnch money as 'twill bring ?"
A maxim old as Hudikras,
And plain as nose on human face ;
But now the States have lands for lale,
This ancient maxim's found to fail ;
Those lands expos'd to sale for paper,
(In fa6t a very curious caper)
Will, when its value's less than gold,
Be for that paper only, fold—
But up to par—aye, there's the cafe—
The rule ailumes a diff'rent face :
Thus by inversion, new and strange.
This rule of common sense, we change ;
For lands, so learned Sages Ting,
Are worth muck less than they will bring.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 17/6 pr. / 87J pr. cent.
3 pr. Cents of 9/1 45 do.
Defered 6 pr. Cents 9/2. 46 do.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 12/6 do.
Indents 9/ 9/1 45 do.
N. and S. Carolina debts, *2y6 625 do.
(J3T Laura and Mary, though a good performance, is not
exactly calculated for this paper.
HENRY KUHL,
No. 143, North Second-Street.
FROM an expe&ation that a mutual advantage would be deri
ved by the dealers in public securities, and a person who
fliould undertake to tranlaft such business on commifjion only, has
concluded to offer himfelf for that purpose. Being of opinion,
that every requisite to convince them and others of his difintereft
cdnefs ought to be attended to on his part, he has duly made oath
before the Hon. the Chief Justice of the State of Pennsylvania, that
he will faithfully execute the trusts which may be reposed in him.
COPY OF THE OATH.
" I Henry Kuh/, of the city of Philadelphia, flock broker, do Jwear y
that I will not be concerned either dircttly or indireflly, on my own ac
count, in any pur chafes or sales of the evidences of the debt of the United
States or of particular States, but will truly andJaithfully execute fuck
purchases and sales on*commifjion only for ihofe who may employ me :
that is to fay, until I fkall announce m one or more of the newjpapers
printed at the feat of the government of the United States, my deter
mination to the contrary. HENRY KUHL.
Sworn at Philadelphia, February 12th, 1791, before
THOMAS M'KEAN."
The commiflions he will charge for the pieient, are—
On the specie amount of all funis below SGOO nominal dollars,
one half per cent, on do. from 5000 to 10,000 do. one fourth pei
cent, on do. from i©,ooo and upwards do. one eighth per cent.
Accounts Hated, and certificates funded at the 1 reafury or
Loan-Office of the United States, on moderate terms.
N. B. AH orders for pur chafes or sales to be in writing.
Philadelphia, Fehrudry 19, 1791. (®5 l - *•)Report of the Secretary of the Treasury, on the
fubje<it of a Mint.
SIR Isaac Newton, in a representation to the Treasury of
Great-Britain, in the year 1717, after Hating the particular
proportions in the ditfercnt countries of Europe, concludcs thus
— u By the course of trade and exchange between nation and na
tion, in all Europe, fine gold is to fine silver as 14 4-5 or 15 to 1."
But however accurate and decisive this authority maybe deem
ed, in relation to the period, to which it applies, it cannot be
taken, at the diftjnee of more than seventy years, as a rule for de
termining the existing proportion. Alterations have been since
made, in the regulations of their coins by several nations ; which,
as well as the course of trade, have an influence upon the market
values. Neverthelcfs, there is reason to believe, that the state of
the matter, as represented by Sir Isaac Newton, is not very remote
from its a&ual state.
In Holland, the greatest money market of Europe, gold was to
silver in Decembei 1789, as 1 to 14.88 ; and in that of London it
has been for some time pad but Utile different, approaching per
haps, something nearer 1 to 15.
11 has been seen, that the existing proportion, between the two
metals in this country, is about as 1 to 15.
It is fortunate in thii refpeft, that the innovations of the Span
ish mint have imperceptibly introduced a proportion so analo
gous, as this is, to that which prevails among the principal com
mercial nations ; as it greatly facilitates a proper regulation of
the matter.
This proportion of 1 to 15 is recommended by the particular
situation of our trade, as being very nearly that which obtains in
thi market of Gieat-Britain, to which nation our specie is princi
pally exported. A lower rate for either of the metals, in our
market, than in theirs, might not only afford a motive the more in
certain cases to remit in specie rather than in commodities ; but it
might in some others, cause us to pay a greater quantity of it for a
given sum, than we (hould otherwise do. If the effect Qiould ra
ther be to occasion a premium to be given for the metal, which
was under-rated, this would obviate those disadvantages ; but it
"would involve another, a cuftrtmary difference between the market
arid legal proportions, which would amount to a species of dis
order in the national coinage.
Looking forward to the payments of interest hereafter to be
made to Hollond, the fame proportion does not appear ineligible.
Ihe present legal proportion in the coins of Holland, is dated at
Ito 14 9-10. That ot the market varies somewhat at different
times, but (eldom very widely from this point.
There can hardly be a better rule, in any country, for the legal,
than the market proportion ; if this can be supposed to have been
produced by the free and ftcady course of commcrcial principles!
The presumption, in such cafe, is, that each metal finds its true
level, according to its intrinsic utility, in the general system of
money operations.
But it must be admitted, that this argument in favor of continu
ing the existing proportion, is not applicable to the state of the
coins with us. There have been too many artificial and heteroge
neous ingredients, too much want of order in the pecuniary tranf
a&ions ot this country, to authorise the attributing the effedls,
which have appeared, to the regular operations ot commerce. A
proof of this is to be drawn from the alterations, which havehao
pened in the proportion between the metals merely by the succes
sive degradations ot the dollar, in confcquence of the mutability
of a foreign mint. The value of gold to silver appears to have de
clined, wholly from this cause, from 15 6-10 to about 15 to i.
Yet as this last proportion, however produced, coincides so nearly
with what may be deemed the commercial average, it may be
supposed to furnilh as good a rule as can be pursued.
The only question seems to be, whether the value of gold
rot to be a little lowered to bring it to a more exadl level with
the two markets which have been mentioned. But as the ratio
of Ito is so nearly conformable to the (late of thofc markets,
and best agrees with that of our own, it will probably be found
the mod eligible. If the market of Spain continues to give a
higher value to gold (as it has done in time past) than that which
is recommcndcd, there may be fomc advantage in a middle sta
tion.
A further prelimiuary to the adjuflment of the fu ure money
unit, is to determine what shall be the proportion and composition
of alloy in each species of the coins.
The firft, by the lefolution of the Bth of August, 1786, before
referred to, is regulated at one twelfth, or in other words, at 1 part
alloy to 11 parts fine, whether gold or silver; which appears to be
a convenient rule ; unless there should be some collateral confe
deration, which may di&ate a departure from ir. Itscorrefpon
dencv, in regard to both metals, is a recommendation of it, be
cause a difference could answer no purpose of pecuniary or com
mercial utility, and uniformity is favorable to order.
This ratio, as it regards gold, coincides with the proportion,
real or profefTed, in the coins of Portugal, England, France and
Spain. In those of the two former it is real, in those of the two
latter there is a deduction for what is callcd remedy of weight and
alloy, which is in the nature of an allowance to the matter of the
mint for errors and imperfettions in the process; rendering the
coin either lighter or baler than it ought to be. The fame thing
is known in the theory of the English mint, where 1-6 of a carat
is allowed. But the difference seems to be, that there, it is merely
an occasional indemnity within a certain limit, for real and una
voidable errors and imperfections; whereas in the pra&ice of the
mints of France and Spain, it appears to amount to a ftatcd and
regular deviation from the nominal standard. Accordingly the
real standards of France and Spain are something worse than 22
carat? or 11 parts in 12 fine.
The principal gold coins in Germany, Holland, Sweden, Den
mark, Poland and Italy, are finer than those of England and Por
tugal in different degrees from 1 carat and 1-4 to 1 carat and 7-8,
which last is within 1-8 of a carat of pure gold.
There are similar diverfuies in the standards of the silver coins
of the different countries of Europe. That of Great-Britain is 222
parts fine to 18 alloy: those of the other European nations vary
from that of Great-Britain as widely as from about 17 of the fame
paits better to 75 worse.
The principal reasons assigned for the use of alloy, are the sav
ing of expence in the refining of the metals (which in their natural
Hate are usually mixed with a portion of the coarser kinds) and
the rendering of them harder as a security againd 100 great wade
by friction and wearing—The firlt real'on, drawn from the origi
nal composition of the metals, is ftrcngthcned at present by the
pra&ice of alloying their coins, which has obtained among so
many nations. The reality of the effect, to which the lad leafon
is applicable, has been denied, and experience has been appealed
to as proving, that the more alloyed coins wear fafter than the
purer. " The true date of this matter may be worthy of future in
vestigation, though fird appearances are in favor of alloy. In the
mean time, the saving of trouble and expence are fufficient induce
ments to following those examples which suppose its expediency.
And the fame considerations lead to taking as our models those na
tions with whom we have most inlcrcourfe, and whose coins are
mod prevalent in our circulation : These are Spain, Portugal,
England and France. The relation which the proposed propor
tion bears to their gold coins, has been explained. In refpeft tc
their silver coins, it will not be very remote from the mean of their
leveral ftjndords.
The component ingredients of the alloy in each metal will also
require to be regulated. In silver, copper is the onlv kind in use.
and it is doubtless the only proper one. In gold, there is a mix
ture of Over and copper ; in the Englifli coins confiding of eqaal
(continued.)
parts, in the coins of some countries varying fiom 1-3 to 2-3
silver.
The reason ot this union of filvcr with copper is this—The sil
ver countrra&s the tendency of the copper to injure the color or
beauty of the coin, by giving it too much redness, or rather a cop
pery hue ; which a small quantity will produce; and the copper
prevents the too great whiteness, which silver alone would confer.
It is apprehended,that there are considerations, which may render
it prucent to establisH by law, that the proportion of silver to cop
per in the gold coins of the United States (hall not be more than
one halt, nor less than one third ; verting a discretion in some pro
per place to regulate the matter within those limits, as experience
in the execution may recommend.
A third point remains to bedil'cu(Ted, as a pre-requifite to the
determination of the money unit, which is, whether the e*pence
of coining (hall be defrayed by the public, or out of the material
itfeif ; or, as it is sometimes stated, whether coinage (hall be free,
or (hall be lubjeft to a duty or impofuion ? This forms, perhaps,
one of the nicest questions in the do&rine of money.
The p raft ice ot different nations is difllmilar in this particular.
In England, coinage is said to be entirely free : the mint price
of the metals in bullion, being the fame with the value of them
in coin. In France there is a duty which has been, if it is not
now, eight per cent. In Holland there is a difference between
the "j 10 * price and the value in the coins, which has been com
puted at .96, or fometbing less than one per cent, upon gold ; at
1.48, or something less than one and a half per cent, upon silver.
The resolution of the Bth of August, 1786, proceeds upon the idea
of a deduction of half per cent, from gold, and of two per cent,
from silver, as an indemnification for the expence of coining.
This is inferrea from a report of the late board of treasury, upon
which that resolution appears to have been founded.
Upon the supposition that the expence of coinage ought to be
defrayed out of the metals, there are two ways in which it may
beeffeaed ; one by a reduction of the quantity of fine gold and
silver in the coins ; the other by establishing a difference between
the value of those metals, in the coins, and the mint price of them
in bullion.
The firft method appears to the Secretary inadmissible. He is
unable to diftinguifli an operation of this fort, from that of raising
thedenomination of the coin ; a measure which has been difapt
proved of by the wisest men of the nations in which it has been
praftifed, and condemned by the reft of the world. To declare
that a less weight of gold or silver (hall pass for the fame sum,
which before represented a greater weight, or to ordain that the
fame weight (hall pass for a greater sum, are things substantially
of one nature. The consequence of either of them, if the change
can be realized, is to degrade the money unit ; obliging creditors
to receive less than their just dues—and' depreciating property of
every kind : for it is manifeft, that every thing would in this cafe
be represented by a lels quantity of gold and silver, than before.
It is fometmies observed on this head, that though any article
of property might in fa£l be represented by a less a&ual quantity
of pure metal, it would nevertheless be represented by fomethin° r
of the fame intrinsic value. Every fabric, it is remarked, is worth
intrinsically, the price of the raw material and the expence of
fabrication; a truth not left applicable to a piece of coin, than to
a yard of cloth.
This position, well founded in itfelf, is here misapplied. It
fuppofcs that the coins now in circulation, are to be considered as
bullion, or in other words, as a raw material. But the fa6t is,
that the adoption of them, as money, has caused them to become
the fabric. It has inverted them with the chara&cr and office of
coins, and has given them a fan&ion and efficacy equivalent to that
of the stamp ol the sovereign. The prices of all our commodities,
at home and abroad, and of all foreign commodities in our
markets, have f«und their level, in conformity to this principle.
The foreign coins may be divejled of the privileges they have hi
therto been permitted to enjoy, and may of course be left to find
their value in the markets as a raw material. But the quantity of
gold and silver in the national coins, corresponding with a given
sum, cannot be made lefsthan heretofore, without disturbing the
balance of intrinsic value; and making every acre of land, a. well
as every bushel of wheat, of less actual worth than in time past.
If the UuitedStates were insulated, and cut off from all intcrcourle
with the reft of mankind, this reasoning would not be equally
conclusive. But it appears decisive, when considered with a view
to the relations, which commerce has created between us and other
countries.
It is however not improbable, that the effect meditated would
be defeated by a rife of prices proportioned to the diminution of
the intrinsic value of the coins. This might be looked for in every
enlightened commercial country ; but perhaps innone with great
er certainty than this ; because, in none are men less liable lo be
ihe dupes of founds—in none has authority so little resource for
lubituuting names to things.
A general revolution in prices, though only nominally, and in
appearance, could not fail to diftraft the ideas of the community,
and would be apt to breed discontents as well among all those
who live on the income of their money, as among the poorer claf
fesof the people, to whom the necessaries of life would fecm to
have become dearer. In the confufion of such a state of things
laeas ofvalue would not improbably adhere to the old coins'
which from that circumftancc, inflead of feeling the efteft of the
lofsof their privileges as money, would perhaps bear a price in
the markets relatively to the new ones, in exafl proportion to
weight. The frequency of the demand for the metals to pay fo
reign balances would contribute to thiseffefcf.
Among the evils, attendant on such an operation, are these
creditors both ot the public and of individuals would lose a part
ot their property—public and private credit would reccivea wound
--the cffeftive revenues of the government would be dimiiufhed
There is scarcely any point, in the economy of national affairs of
greater moment, than the uniform preservation of the intrinsic
value ot the money unit. On this the security and ftcady value
or property eflentially depend.
The second method, therefore, of defraying the expence of the
coinage out of the metals, is greatly to be prefercd to Ihe other.
This is to let the fame sum of money continue to represent in the
new coins exactly the fame quantity of gold and silver, as it doe
in those now current—to allow at the mint such a price only for
thcfemetals as will admit ot profit just fufficient to fatisfy the ex
pence ot coinage—to abolilh the legal currency of foreign coins,
both in public and private payments—and of courfc to leave the
superior -utility of the national coins, for domestic purposes to
operate the difference of market value, which is neceflary to'in
duce the bringing of bullion to the mint. In this cafe, all pro
perty and labour willftill be reprefcnted by the fame quantity of
gold and silver, as formerly ; and the only change which will
be wrought, willconfifl in annexing the office of 'money exclu
hvely to the national coins ; confequer.tly, withdrawing it from
thole of foreign countries, and fuffering them to become, as they
ought to be, mete articles of merchandize.
The arguments in favor of a regulation of this kind are—First
hat the want of it is a cause of extra expence : there being then'
no motive of individual interest to distinguish between the national
coins and bullion, they are, ,t is alleged, indiscriminately melted
down, for domestic manufaaures, and exported for the purposes
of foreign trade; and it is added that when the coins become light
by wear,ng the fame quantity of fine gold or f.lver bears a higher
price , n bullion than the coins; in wh.cH state of things the
mehmg down of the coins to be fold as bullion is attended with
proht; and from both-caufcs the expence of the mint, or in other
words, the expence nf maintaining the specie capital of thenaliou,
is materially augmented. '
Secondly—That the existence of such a regulation promotes a
favorable course of exchange, and benefits trade, not only by: that
756
circumfiance, but by obliging foreigners, in certain cases, to pay
dearer for domestic commodities, and to fell their own cheaper. '
As far as relates to the tendency of a tree coinagc to produce an
encreafeof expence, in the different ways that have been stated.
the argument mud be allowed to have foundation, both in reason
and experience. It describes what has been exemplified in
Great-Britain.
The effc£l of giving an artificial value to bullion, is not at firft
fight obvious ; but it adually happened at the period immediately
preceding the late reformation, in the gold coin of the country
just named. A pound troy in gold bullion of ftandaid finenefs,
was then from 19s. 6d. to 255. fterl. dearer than an equal weight
of guineas, as delivered at the mint. The phenomenon is thus
accounted for—the old guineas were more than two per cent,
lighter than theirJlandari weight. This weight therefore, in bul
lion, was truly worth two pet cent, more than those guineas. It
confcquently had in rcfpe£l to them, a correfpondcnt rife in the
market.
And as guineas were then current by tale, the new one-, as they
issued from the mint, were confounded in circulation with the old
ones ; and by the association, were deprecated below the intrinsic
value, in comparison with bullion. It became of coui fe a profita
ble traffic to fell bullion for coin, to feleft the light pieces, and re
ilTuc them in currency, and to melt down the heavy ones, and fell
them again as bullion. This pra&ice, besides other inconvenien
cics, coil the government large funis, in the renewal ot the coins.
[To be continued.']
New Line of Stages.
THE Subscriber has eftabliftied a line of STAGES from Hart
ford to Boston, by way of Norwich and Providence, which
will run thro twice a week during the Winter Season, and three
times a week during the Summer Season.
Go"d Carriages, Horses, and careful Drivers are provided.—
Paflengers pay three Pence per Mile, and are allowed 14 pound
Baggage each. Extra Baggage pays at the rate of three Pcncc
per Mile for every 150 wt. As the Mail is to go in these Stages
for the year 1791, fixed hoi»rs for ftartingfrom the refpeflive Stage
Houses is absolutely neceflary—from which there can be nodevia-
lion.
The Stage for the Eastward leaves
Hartford Mondays and Thursdays,
Norwich Tuesdays and Fridays,
Providence Wednesdays and Saturdays,
For the Weft ward, leaves Boston Mondays and Thursdays,
Providence Tuesdays and Fridays,
Norwich Wednesdays and Saturdays.
JESSE BRO W N. 69 —iw3m
INFORMATION WANTED.
|C - THE Subscriber requefls, if any gentleman
can give him information of a purchase of Lands ?nade
by a Mr. Daniel Richardet, in the year 1781 and
1782, in fame part of the United States, he will be so
kind as to inform his Brother, by dire Cling a line t»
him, at the Printer's office. S. RICHARDET.
January, 1791
THE Copartnership of HEWES and ANTHONY having ex
pired the 31ft ultimo, they request those, who have any de
mands, to exhibit their accounts and receive their money; and
those who are indebted, are defircd to make fpecdy payment, to
either of the Subscribers, at their Compting-Houfe, No. 5, Chef
nut-Street-Wharf. J O S I A H H E W E S,
JOSEPH ANTHONY.
Philadelphia, Jan. 15, 1791.
N. B. They have yet ori hand, and for SALE, at their STORE
abovementioned,
HYSON, Souchong, and Bohea TEAS,
Three cases Caflia,
Pimento in bags,
Muscovado Sugar,
A tew Cases old Batavia Arrack,
One cask of Durham Mustard,
New England Rum in hogfheadsand barrels,
A quantity of prime Boston Beef,
Spermaceti, right whale and tanners' Oil,
Best p:ckled Mackrel,
6by B—7 by 9—B by 10—9 by 11— and 10 by 12 Window
Glass,
A quantity of excellent carrot Tobacco,
And an elegant CHANDELIER.
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
No. 91, Race-Strect, between Second and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
Ani all kinds of SECURITIES of the United States, or of any
particular Stace.
Philadelphia, Feb. 1790.
TO BE SOLD,
The seat of the late governor
L 1 V 1 N G S T 0 N,
situate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
Morris Town. Ihe farm contains between 90 and 100 acres of
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about 19 acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
t e tarm a very large colle&ion of various kinds of the choicefl
ruitfrees, See. in full bearing; the house is large, convenient,
well built and in very good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars.
New-York, Jan. 1791
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BORE A
TEAS;
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c.
Of the firfl Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street,between Chefnut and Market-Streets.
N. B. A few Ti ckkts in the New-York Lottery,
which is to be drawn the firfl of April next, forfait.
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,!
T January 25, 1791. J
HE Public. Creditors are reminded that, in order to the pro
per dispositions for paying the Interefl in the several States,
it is necefiary that the amount lo be paid in eaeh fiiould be pre
viously known at the Treasury. And as the expiration of the firft
quarter is not far distant, it is wished that those who have not yet
c.one it, may be expeditious in making and lignifying their elec
tion, pursuant to the a£l making provision for the debt of the
United States.
Norwich.
Dec. 14.
Martinico Coffee,
(iaw6w.)
80 3m