es&sei&fSKßf
<
- ' J< {ij- ) 0
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN F F.N NO, No. 69. HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 85, of Vol. II. j Saturday, February 12, 1791.
f Richmo hp, (Virginia,) Jan. 26.
By the Clermont, Captain Colley, who arrived at Nor
folk, in five weeks from London, Jiewfpapers are re
ceived as late as the 1J! of 'December—f rom which is
extracted the f ollowing.
BRABANT AND FLANDERS.
The affairs oj the Provinces have now drawn to a cri
fis —The following are the late/i particulars that
have arrived, and as an article of importance, de
serve attention.—The proceedings in the Congress
on the 21ft inft. were communicated to Mr. Pitt la ft
night.
ON the 18th instant, an express arrived at the
Hague with dispatches lor Abbe Van Leem
poel, Envoy for theßelgic Congress to the ltates
general, informing him that four members of
Congress M. Petirjean, the Chevalier de Boufies,
Count Baillet, and M. de Graaf, were 011 their
way to the Hague, to aflift him in treating with
the Ministers of the three allied powers.
On the 19th tliefe four gentlemen, accompani
ed by Abbe Van Leeinpoel, had a conference at
the house of the Pensionary Van Spiegel, with
the English and Pruflian Mini Iters. On the 20th
they met a second time at the fame place, and
fee out the fame day for Brullels.
Al tliefe meetings they laboured to procure a
delay or respite from the 2r it of November, the
period fixed by the Emperor's Manifelto far the
fubmiflion of the Netherlands, to the 6th of De
cember.— But they failed in the attempt, the Mi
ni iters of the Allied Courts inflexibly refiifing to
•bend rhemfeives to a request which they said ap
peared to thenv unreasonable, and little fuicedto
the dignity of their refpeciive sovereigns, or of
his Imperial Majelly.
Previous to the departure of the four members
from Bruflels, a fchifin had taken place in the
Congress, and parties had run exceedingly high,
and the two firlt orders of the ltates of Brabant,
the Clergy afid Nobles, liad pafi"ed resolutions
■which were to form the basis of an agreement
with the Kmperor.
On the 13th, when it was debated in Congress,
whether a negociation should be opened with the
Emperor's Minilters on t lie ground of the terms
offered in his Manifefto, it is said, that Mefl. Van
Eupen and Vandernoot, fucceifively rose, and
each took a solemn oath never to consent to treat
with the Emperor, upon any terms which should
imply that he was, or ever should be, recognized
•sovereign of the Netherlands.
They endeavored to gain over the other mem
bers to their opinion, but without faccefs ; for
the members for the Provinces of Ilainault,
Flanders, and Tournaifie, and for the cities of
Tournay and Antwerp,declared that they had re
ceived inftrutftions from their refpeclive condi
ments, to consent to an accommodation with the
Emperor, and to treat with him upon 1 he ground
of iiis being recognized their lawful sovereign.
To remove thef'e differences of opinion, it was
proposed, that in a meeting of the Congress,
which was held at Brullels, on the 21 It inltant,
the day limited by the Emperor's Manifefto,that
the Emperor should never be acknowledged, as
the sovereign of tliefe (tates, but that to prevent,
it possible, the further effufion of human blood,
]iis third son the Arch-Duke Charles, should be
elected to the sovereignty.
This proposal was debated for some time, and
at i o'clock at night it was unanimously refo'ived
in the Congress, that the Arch-Duke Charles be
elected to the sovereignty, under the titles of
Ivlarque, Conre, and Due de Bclgic, under such
regulations as may be determined on, bound to
reside in the country of the states, to govern
them by their ancient laws, and agreeable to the
articles of their conftilution ; 2nd to preserve to
all and each of the rtatcs, their refpettive righ'.s
immunities, and privileges.—The fuccellion to
be hereditary in his family, never to revert to a
iijr branch of the House ot Aultria, pofleffingthe
sovereignty of any other country.
Whether the Emperor will agree to the propo
sal, will be kuown in a few days—At any rate, a
fairer ground of reconciliation seems to
presented itfelf than was firit exneifted. vl/
VIENNA, Nov
Prince Ga]]itzin,theßufiian Anibaflador,receiv
ed a courier the day before yelterday from Prince
Potetnkin, with the news of a complete victory
gained the loth of October, by the troops of the
Empress of Pviiffia, over the feraikier Catel Bey,
Pacha of three tails, who commanded an army of
40,000 Turks, wiih which he was ordered to pe
netrate into the southern provinces of lluffia.
P ince Pote.nkin being informed that the ene
my's army had already moved from Anapa, gave
orders to the different corps, iri the Cuban and
the neighbourhood of Mount Caucasus, to march
forward and give battle. One of the corps com
manded by General Herman, met with the ene
my at a finall distance from the river of Cuban,
which Catel Bey had jiilt palled ; he attacked the
Tnrkifli army, notwithstanding it? great fuperi
ot ity, with such impetuoiity as totally to defeat it.
The whole of the enemy's camp, with all the
aVtillery confiding of more than 30 pieces,all the
amiminitipn, provision, tents and baggage, fell
into the hands of the vitftors, and the Turkish
General liiinfelf,and all his Tune,were made pris
oners of war. 1
Tlie Ruffian General had cliofen a molt advan
tageous position, and at one onfec more than
5:000 were killed 011 the spot, and the reft of the
Ottoman army forced to a precipitate flight, in
which a great number \Vere drowned 111 the
Cuban.
NAPLES, Nov. 2
The eruption of Mount Vesuvius has ceased,
without having done much damage 10 the culti
vated parts of the mountain. The late eruption
was certainly the most violent that has happened
since that of the year 1779, which was truly
alarming and deftrucfcive.
CENSUS of rhelnhabitants of MASSACHUSETTS
as taken by the Marjkal of that Diftritft,
" *" a2s"sf"= i|>T ?
g ?= = 2. ? °|-°£:* r
j =^ s !5
to }
CP)
C_n '
o, I
S}
5* S -
3
c *S f
E" 5
- »<& °!
t, s 3 = °
p > n
B~—>. Z> SO.
*->5. -• 3
°i= _ 3 3
~ r." "»
2 «o = s>
«s» 5- $" r>'
00 r, «
.9 § ]? g ~
q S r\ -• ~'
° q
~ =?" *
= *
-»> o -i, a"
t's"
§f
§s en
O "Tl
° £ i. n
° |n
.. rT ®
a*, 2- •
Ssi
i >
; *:% 2J++
0 r '
«■» -*" 4 ~>
c £* 5--
£•_ a* o
I? c/> ___
n 5
3 S „ a.
~ " Q- o
«$-!;■ S'K
-V" -• W
< a. 3 2-
B W J
|; z;-
5.* i <
"a Hi =
a? o5
s- -f -
"> rr ™
£ 3 J??*
8 1 ~
a"? ?
~ ur
i?- *
2" 5
EP g, ~
rs "-*■ Cki
s. 3
? « O.
Boston
Saicm*
Marblehead+ 618
Ncwb'ryport| 616
,538
Gloucefter|| 673
* " 601
IpfvvichU
Beverly** 422
Jimbridge+ +
538
incw Bedford 454
Barriftable
Worcefter||||
* 16 mi'es N. E. from Boston. + 3 miles from Salem.
J 45 miles N E. from Boston. Adjoins the former.
|| Or Cape-Ann. 5 N. E. from Boston. ** 2 miles from
Salem N. E. ++ 4 miles Weft from Boston. 42 miles
S. E from Boston. 36 miles S. W. trom Boston. ||j| 48
miles S. W. from Boston.
737
JJ. -f- ++ - - cn-u '? k> Towns
j HCd aoi >■" ci - b O3
** CO - Ol „ e
0 s ) o Houses
I - ►- Oi. ~ 00 O In
- J I 05 C>)it> Ok Oi
C">
<Lr, M O 00
00-i oeir, - cr,oi to o Families
-I •— to CC-— 00 COc.3
<-£> u OCX) -<*3 » UU 90
(X) M »- m F ,ec white males
si Mo. ; -f* - 16 years old and
a- CO ~ 00 » VO Cr» « O •* CO 1
cn £> ho 1- o o - *■ cr> -j upwards
co cr>cn 1
co ** _ Free white m*Us
*-1 -j c*s >-* C> » 'fl ,
w c> o-j ovo 01 o co under 16 years
CO <£2 ~-J »- ~ 4-. CO ** o /
<£> CO <sO -J to CO CT} W br—
" m 10 tO CO B
o a* 00 to -00 c->»e- '& - oco _ , . r .
Ci 00 -00 cr> a> o-0 o w - Fiec white females
co o o ow o -
K IVO 4> Ol<Ji 00'43 ►£» 004*
cn I ~ All other free per
cc to en 05 o . *
CTi 1 .. O «Co ;o OOCn loilS
co lcoiDOww^co'*^oa)
1 coot mco mena cn a Total ofcach coun
-00 l 6) <?>•&■ Co *--» -<£>••£> 'O iju
J to 00 C> OCo -«» Cn O 00 (v
Co I lO O c CT>Ci O CO 00CO - --J J
J »<S) MvtCoCft
OI Q Q 053 Z 0 O 0 Qlaupe
3 333333333:33 OIAVCS
rtl rj<"jo<"»rtftoofßoo
* I
*
o
o
o"
<•>
*
n
X
n
?
cr
c w
< c
o®
r. ~
«■« —
5 5J
•T °3
y. w
ZT\ ncr c yO"3 2
s:?3 •■ Zf =. 3
-in i r -c
r• • • z §r» Sr—
2 n 2 cr rr
oS~ c 2
x ' </i c
* | 2. '§-
c/> £r = S-o
— O 03 " T»
-i ;r> >~.
2. gS'
a. £r js-
« T3 <D
'* - s
-o
G
"5
a
c
2 37 S
9 2 8
~ - 5
£ iS S I
£ P
3343 4325 3376
1493 18 45 »7 10
1104 13;7
999 '>55 >°7>
723 1039 844
ICO6 1267 1216
88l 1151 916
637 74 8 733
355
577
t6i
481
322
■ I WAS. in company the other evening, with a
1 fee of young people, where the sprightly Le
via happened also to be. Levia, as ufiial, had a
great deal of real wit, with a great deal of that
looser fore, which, as I have often hinted to her,
bears, with me, the name of indelicacy. She has
naturally a great fund of agreeable vivacity,
which (he displayed that evening with peculiar
grace, had it not been for tliofe disagreeable le
vities I am Ipeakingof. However, with the great
er part they palled for flerling vrit, and Le«ia
was uncommonly applauded by the gentlemen,
& not a little envied by the less entertaining fair
ones. But this light carriage and freedom of
expression had like to have cost her dear in the
sequel. A young officer, 10 whom (he was an in*
tire (Iranger, drew inferences from her. couduiH:.
not at all favorable to her honor,& took an oppor
tunity to offer his service to attend her to her
own house, which was only a square distant. She
accepted his oflor with a franknefs peculiar to
herfelf, and which was to liitn acoufummation of
h:s lufpicions. I could not help observing it,
and flipped out after them, to prevent any difa
gr consequences that might happen to a
good narured, gidc]y cirl, whom I efteern. They
were Jiot twenty yards from the door, when I
heard her iifing very harsh language to him, and
immediately after (he screamed out, broke from ■
him, and was running back, when 1 catcheil.hold
of her, and discovered myfelf to her and herpur
fuer. She immediately fainted in my arms,
which did not a little (hock the younggentleman
who was now (landing by in a very penitent
manner. I did not fail to reprove him,for his be
havior, which he indeed fufliciently apologized
for before he left me ; and, 1 believe, from the
impression it has made on Levia, (lie will be very
sparing of her double entendres in foture, an -
already wiflies (he had felt the force of my admo
nitions on that fubjert before.
Counties
Never (fays a correspondent) was any species
of atrocious villainy more prevalent in any coun
try than that which is atprefent pradtifed in tlie
United States, of altering and counterfeiting
State Certificates, and other public securities of
different denominations, A gang of villains, ge
nerally well diofled, are employed in travelling
through the country, inipofing upon upguarded
people ij and in many inltances to the great de
triment, if not total vqjji 0 f the honest farmer,
or other unfufpedling peir QnS- A mot i e Q f coun
terfeiting is said to be now pi<ufiif ec l by tl JO f e
infamous wretches so completely a«f wer j n g their
purpole as almod to baffle a poffibihiy of detec
tion. Their secret, however, is fortuivjtelv jjj*.
covered, which it is hoped, will be one <rreat
step towards disappointing those pests of foc»»ty
in future. The following may (among numer
ous other instances) be depended on for a fa<ft :
A farmer in Morris county, (New-Jersey) had a
Hate certificate of 600 dollars, which two or three
perlons, unknown to him, made overtures ofpur
chaiiiig. Having, by the farmer's consent, exa
mined thecenificate, and made their observations
thereon, they took their leave, promising tp call
..again in a few days and talk with the owner fur
ther about purchasing it.—They accordingly re
turned, bringing with them a falfe certificate of
the fame date, value, &c. and so nicely executed,
that in palling it back and forward among them
they took an opportunity of making an exchange,
and thus impofingupon theunfortunate proprie
tor a counterfeit fecuriry for the true one.
The legifl3ture of S. Carolina, now in session
has chosen Jacobßead,Efq. speaker of the house,
and David Ramsay, Efcj. president of tlie Senate.
cr *
a* *
o
° £
i «*
._ 0
o
5 js >
c !r! -
Ho
-18038
79 21
5 (>61
4 8 37
3972
.53'7
4562
329 c
2115
2 995
3 8c "i
3313
£6iO
2095
f £ Co.
9576 761
41C6 260
2982 87
2541 7°
2047 42
2793 4 1
2416 79
1 75 l 58
The speaker informed the house, that, in con
formity to their resolve at the last feflion, h,e had
imported from England " a fitperb gown of black
fattin, ornamented with velvet tajfels,richly fringed."
It is said to be an exa& pattern of that worn;
by the speaker of the British house of common*.
%f^o
[Whole No. i 87.]
EXTRACT
" Jmmodefl words admit of no defence
" l'or wane of decency is want o {ftnfe."
N E W-Y O RK, Feb. 7.
The number of inhabitants within the state
of South-Carolina, as d to the legislature,
is 126,1 31.
The present session of the legislature of South-
Carolina, will probably be lengthy, being the
firlt under tlieirnew constitution.
A committee is appointed to draught a bill to
repeal tha confifcation ail.CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, Jan. 24.
The house resumed the confideratton of the amendments
proposed to the new REVENUE BILL.
MR. TUCKER proposed a clause to limit the
duration of the bill : He urged this 1110
tion from the confiJeration of the security it
■would afford to the people, that the duties and
burthens would not be continued after the ne
ceflity of their being laid (hould cease : He ob
served that a future house might agree to renew
the law, or to originate a new one—nor did he
conceive that the creditors of the United States
•would be placed in a worse situation with this
limitation than without it; for a house that
would refufe to renew the a<£t, or originate anew
one, on a principle of justice to the creditors,
would not liefitate to repeal this law.
Mr. Sherman observed, that a clause already
agreed to, fupercedes the necessity of this amend
ment: That clause expressly provides, that other
duties or taxes, of equal value, may be substi
tuted, in cafe the present ftiould prove burthen
fome or inconvenient.
Mr. Jackson Aipported the motion : He ob
served that it was the indispensable duty of this
lioufe to keep the purse firings in their hands—
for his part he never would consent to a' perpe
tual law, which in its operations might prove
odious to the people—and he maintained that
this law would be perpetual, inafinuch as it was
to be commensurate with the debt of the United
States— he urged the adoption of a limiting
clause from a variety of considerations.
Mr. Lawrance objetfled to the motion : He said
it not only interfered with the a<fts already parted,
making provision for the public debt, and which
have express reference to part of the duties con
templated by this bill ; but it also contravenes
the clause which makes it optional with the United
Staves, to substitute other taxes in lieu of those
proposed to be raised by this bill.
Mr. Gerry objeifted to the proposition of Mr.
Tucker, on similar principles with Mr. Lawrancc :
He added, that it would prove a violation of the
public faith, inasmuch as it would make part of
the provilion temporary, whereas the honor of the
government is pledged to provide l hose funds that
arc permanent. Mr. Gerry enlarged on the im
portance and facrednefs of the public faith—it
has been fufficiently trifled with—he hoped more
consistency would mark the public councils in
future.
Mr. Giles said he thought the provifi°n pro
posed, or something (imilar, so important, that
he fliould think himfelf deficient in duty if he
did not offer some obfervaiions on it. He denied
the motion violated the funding system ; but if
it did, he fliould prefer Aich violation to a viola
tion of the conftir*" 10 "- He read a clause from
the funding fyrtem, and said the terms " perma
nent funds" meant established, fixed funds, such
as Congress may hereafter deem necessary ; it can
not m^ ll Congress are not at liberty to vary
funds at pleasure, provided they are but
-always made competent. Will gentlemen fay
that the system is so sacred that it can never be
touched ? He enquired, if in its operation any
system is found to be contrary to the constitution,
ought it to be held lacred ? He then adverted to
the impression under which the constitution had
been adopted, and said that if the people had
then supposed that they subjected themselves by
it to perpetual burthens, which could never be
controuled by the representatives of the people,
not one in a hundred would ever have con
fentcd to its adoption. He asked, on what is the
public faith founded ! Is it founded on the fifcal
regulations of this house? Is it founded on the
funding system ? I hope not: It is founded, fir,
on the integrity of the United States, and their
ability to pay their debts. He was afraid there
was too great a sympathy with the public credi
tors in the house—such a sympathy as did not
properly combine with it the interests and feel
ings of the people at a distance. He conftdered
the power of regulating the resources of the
United States, as at present htuated, properly
lodged—and hetrufted it would not be delegated
to any other body whatever. I hope, said he, we
shall not arm the executive with the golden nerve
of the United States. He considered the execu
tive as possessing al 4Uy the neceflary powers—
he wished they might not be extended—much
less could he consent that the fnnding system
fliould be superior to the constitution of the
United States.
Mr. Lawrance sdvertitig to the constitution,
fpecified the powers thereby veiled in the legis
lature of the United States, they are empowered
to lay excises, impolls and other taxes. He wifii
ed gentlemen would be explicit when they tax
ed others with a design to violate the constitu
tion—he had read the constitution, perhaps not
so much as the gentleman from Virginia, still
he had read it fnfticient to convince him that
nothing in the funding system, nor in the bill
now before the house, was contrary thereto.
He then adverted to the proportion of limiting
the present bill, and said that it mufl appear to
be a palpable violation of the public faith as
pledged by the funding system ; it goes to con
verting not only the present fund into a tempo
rary one, but also converts part of that which
is now a permanent fund into a temporary. He
then adverted to the observation which tended
to affix a Itigmaof odium on the bill ; he remark
ed 011 the fubje<ft of taxes generally, and said
there never was such a thing as a popular tax,
strictly speaking—still the people Submitted to
them on principles of patriotism, and when it
was said that the people are pleased with any
particular mode of taxation, it only means that
some are less exceptionable than others ; this he
conceived to be the cafe in the present in-
fiance,
Mr. Jackson adverting to the bill said, that
the clause which empowers Congress to substi
tute new taxes in lieu of theexcife, plainly shews
that this bill is not a permanent bill—the propo
sition is therefore no violation of any principle
in the bill, it is merely declaratory of what is
fairly implied in the above clause.
Mr. Heifter was in favor of the limitation.
Mr. Bloodworth said he had seconded the mo
tion with a view that if the bill fliould not prove
agreeable to the people, other measures may be
adopted. Suppose the people lhould notconfent
to the law, is one part of the people to be march
ed sgainft another ? It will be in vain for us to
pass a law that shall be opposed to the popular pre
judices ; gentlemen talk of the bill's being agree
able to the people—his experience taught him
very differently ; no system could be devised
more odious to the people of the Southern States.
Mr. Gerry further opposed the motion
Mr. Tucker rose to obviate some of the objec
tions which had been offered to his motion—if
the operation of it went to repeal any part of the
funding law, he was content to have it altered
so as to avoid that consequence. He then enter
ed into a particular reply, to the several objec
tions which had been offered : He invalidated
that which arose from the danger of trusting a
future Congress, by inftaucing the situation of
thedefered part of the debt which is left entire
ly to the integrity of a future Congress ; that the
public creditors do not consider the perpetuity
of the law making pro'vifion for the public debt
as of any superior consequence, is evident from
the increasing value of the defered debt.
Mr. Stone said the motion would counteract
the clause in the funding fyftein which had ap
propriated the duty on rum as a permanent fund ;
he had been opposed to the United Stares pledg
ing their faith for the payment of their debts,
he was for a more dignified mode of procedure,
but as the legislature had thought proper to pro
vide a permanent fund in one instance, he tho't
it proper they should do it in another—and with
refpeft to excise, if that is the best poffib'.e re
source for paying the interelt on the assumed
debt, it ought lobe continued 011 the fame prin
ciple till the objetft is obtained.
Mr. Sherman offered a few observations against
the motion.
Mr. Seney spoke in its favor, and proposed a
modification of it to avoid the objection of its
interfering with tlie funding fyflem.
The queltion was taken on the original motion
and 1011, 30 to 19.
WEDNESDAY, Feb. 9
Mr. Huntington, from the committee appoint
ed for that purpose reported a bill, for encreaf
ing the penalties contained in an ad: for the en
couragement of learning, which was read a firft
time
A meflage was received from the President of
the United States, by Mr. Lear his secretary, no
tifying that he has this day approved and signed
an a (ft which originated in this house, entitled an
adt' declaring theconfent of Congress to a certain
adt of the (late of Maryland ; also communica
ting sundry papers relative to the admission of
the territory of Vermont as a member of the fe
deral union, which were read and referred to a
feledl committee, of three members, Meflrs. Law
ranee, Boudinot and Carroll.
Mr. Sedgwick from the committee appointed
for that purpose, reported a bill to continue in
force for a limited time the acT: regulating pro
cefles in the federal courts ; which was read the
firlt time.
738
Mr. Gerry preferred the the petition of Micha
el Jackson, late a colonel in the Mafliichufetts
line of the army, praying to be placed on the
penlion lift, in consideration of d"liability occaii
oned by public service, which was read and re
ferred to the Secretary at War.
Mr. Bourne gave notice of the following moti
on, that a committee be appointed to prepare and
bring in a bill, repealing so much of the a«si lay
ing import and tonnage, as rates the rix dollar of
Denmark, at 100 cents, which motion was laid
on the table.
On motion of Mr. Smith (S. C.) a committee
of three was appointed to prepare and bring in
a bill supplementary to an aifl for incorporating
the subscribers to the Bank of the United States,
Mr. Smith [S. C.] Williamfon and Mr. Stone
are the said committee.
Mr. Boudinot gave notice, that to-morrow he
fhonld move, that i. committee be appointed to
bring in a bill supplementary to an act for elta
blifhingtlie treasury department.
After which the galleries were cleared.
THURSDAY, Feb. 10.
The bill to ascertain the time for the com
mencement of the next feflion of Congress, was
brought in engrossed, read a third time, and laid
on the table.
Thebill to encreafe the penalties contained in
an acft, entitled, an ac [ t for the encouragement
of learning, was read a second time, and referred
to a committee of the whole house on Monday
next
The bill to continue the atft, regulating pro
cefles in the courts of the United States, \va3 read
a second time, and ordered to be engrofled tor a
third reading,
Mr. Huntington prefentedthe petition of John
"itch, remonstrating againll certain parrs ot the
)ill, to amend the act, entitled, an art to promote
[lie progress of ufefnl arts, which was read and
laid oil the table.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) prefentcd the following pe
tition, which was read and laid on the table.
To the Hon. The Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress assembled,
The petition of the [übfcribers, Maflers of American vejfeh, in the port
of Charlejion, South-Carolina, intended for the carrying trade to Eu~
rope, humblyfheweth,
THAT allured by the encouragement afforded by Congress in
a former session, to the shipping of the United States of America,
the owners of the vessels, commanded by your petitioners, were
induced to engage their capitals in the carrying trade, from the
southern States to Europe ; in pursuance of this plan they have
greatly multiplied their (hipping, by building new vessels ; and
others have been taken from the Weft-India and other branche?
of trade, in which for some years past, they have been engaged
with very indifferent success ; the aggregate constitutes a prodi
gious navigation, of which we are concerned to add, that the port
of Charleston at the present moment affords a melancholy proof.
Duringthe lad season a very considerable number of American
vessels were loaded at this port; but their freights were in general
the lead acceptable, and at lower rates than were at the fame time
obtained by foreign vrffcls : This preference could not be attribu
ted to any inferiority in the American (hipping ; but tofome cir*
cumftanccs that are incomprehensible to your petitioners; but
which they trust the wisdom of Coogrefs will ascertain.
In the present instance, your petitioners find themselves in this
port, with (hipping nearly adequate to the transportation of the
whole crop of this country ; and they beg leave to obfervc, that
the season not yet being far advanced, many more vessels may rca~
fonably be expc&ed—and more than thirty are a&ually known
to be coming. Thus situated, the majority of your petitioners find
themfclves destitute of employment ; the influx of foreigners hav
ing been as great, or greater than ever—and the usual partiality in
their favor dill existing ; many of us fore fee the neceflTity of re
turning to our refpeftive ports of equipment, or employment, al
most as unpromising as remaining in port. Hut previous to dif
peifing, we conceive it a duty we owe to our country, as well as
to ourselves, to represent our situation to the supreme Legislature
of the Union.
In the fulled confidence that our petition will be favorably re
ceived, and its objefl be thought to merit the confederation of
Congress ; we have fttbfcribed our names, our refpe&ive vessels,
and their tonnage—and as in duty bound, (hall ever pray.
Signed by the Masters of 24 Ships, }
16 Brigs, Tonnage, 8118.
1 Schooner, )
Charlejlon, South-Carolina, Jan. 19, 1791.
Mr. Boudinot's motion of yeflerday taken
up, and a committee consisting of Mr. Boudinot,
Mr. Fitzfimons, and Mr. Ames, was appointed to
prepare and bring in a bill, supplementary to
the at r t, establishing the Treasury Department.
On motion ,a comm i ttee, con fitting of Mr. Bourne,
Mr. Sherman, and Mr. Thatcher, was appointed
to confide:- and report what alteration may be
proper in the act, imposing duties on imports and
tonnage, in respect to the rix dollar of Denmark,
raied therein at 100 cents.
The house then resolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole, Mr. Boudinot in the chair, and
took into consideration the bill authorizing the
President of the United States to cause the debt
due to foreign officers to be paid and discharged :
The bill being gone through with, the commit
tee rose and reported the fame without any
amendment. The bill was agreed to by tiie
house, and ordered to be engrofl'ed for a third
reading.
The house again rcfolved itfelf into a commit
tee of the whole, Mr. Boudinot in the chair, and
took into consideration the bill eilablifliing offices
for granting lands within the territory of the
United States. The committee agreed to sundry
amendments—then rose, reported progress, and
aiked leave to fit again.
Mr. Smith, from the committee appointed for
that purpose, reported a bill fupplcmeiuary toan acft for Incorporating the fubfcribcrs to the
Bank of the United States; which was read the
fir ft time.
A report was received from the Secretary of
State, on the memorial of the merchants trading
to China ; which was read and laid on the table.
After which the galleries were cleared.
YR I D A V, Feb. n.
Pa(fsd, the bill empowering the President of the
United States to caufc the deoc due to foreign of
ficers to be discharged—
The bill to continue in force for a limited time
the art, regulating procelles in the federal courts,
And, the bill to alter the time of the next meet
ing of Congress—The blank, in the 1 ast, was till
ed with the FIRST Mo N DA Y IN No V EMB ER N EXT.
Read the second time the bill, fupplemeiuary
to the acl for incorporating the fubferibers to the
Bank of the United States, and referred the fame
to a committee of the whole house to-morrow.
This bill is to prolong the time of receiving
fubfcriptioiiS, and provides that they ftioul J not
exceed five millions of dollars 011 the fii ft of Ja
nuary 1792.
Sundry petitions were read, and referred to
the Secretary at War
A mefl'age from the Prefiient of the United
>taies informed the house, that the Appropria
ion-Bill for the year 1791, has received his ap
jrobation and signature.
Read the firft and second time a bill, providing
.-ompenfacion for Marshals, Clerks, and Jurors —
and referred to a committee of the vvnole on
ruefday next.
Mr. Gerry presented a memorial from sundry
persons, holders of bills of credit, commonly cal
led new emiifion—which was read and laid on
the table.
In committee of the whole on the land office
bill—the difcullion was finifhed ; and the bill
with sundry amendments reported to the houle.
The report it was ordered (lionld lie 011 the table.
The petition of the matters ot vefl'els in the'
portof Charleston, (S. C.) was referred to the
committee of thirteen 011 the trade and
navigation of the United States.
Business of a private nature occuring—the
doors of the gallery werelhut.
EXTRACTS from Gov. HANCOCK'S SPEECH
to the Legislature of Maflachufetts.
" TN addition to the other favors we enjoy as a go-
A vernment, we have the blessings of peace and
tranquility : Induflry and economy prevail, and the
people appear to be fatisfiedand contented.
The happiness of the people, that sole objeEl of all
good government, is every where acknowledged : The
field has in the year past yielded its incriafe in great
abundance : Our fijhery and commerce have been
prospered, and there appears to be laudable exertions
to introduce theufeful arts into the country. A num
ber of gentlemen have in the toivn of Bojlon, and
other towns, carried the manujaßary of Duck to a
great degree of perfection ; they deserve great applause
Jor their spirited exertions. And from the attempts
of other worthy citizens, we have reason to hope, that
there will be as great fuaefs in the manuj aCI ory of
glass in the fame town.
" The Congress of the United States having affu
medfour millions of dollars of the deotof thisCo?u>non
wealth, the residue remains as the object offinance for
this particular government. Perhaps upon the final
adjuflment of our accounts withCCongres s it may ap
pear that this also is chargeable upon the United States,
but the creditors flill are to look to this Hate for pay
ment. The original holders of securities iffaed by this
government have received great injury, atld greater
jUll veil! accrue to the?n, unless from your proceedings
it fiyall be made evident to the world, that the interest
tj the residue of our debt will be provided for in a
manner fully equal in point oj advantage to that pro
posed by Congress ; and that a puntlual annual pay
ment may be relied upon: Unless this is done, the citi
zens who have parted with their property to save their
country from impending ruin, wilt be obliged to conti
nue to dispose of their securities at discount, and mufl
be finally taxed to redetm them at par,.from those who
Jhall be holders of them. 1 have 1:0 doubt-,gentlemen,
but that you are fully ijnprejfed with this importantfub
jeil ; but Ijeel it to be my duty to urge upon you a
speedy progress in rejlormg credit to the Common
wealth.
" By the at 7 of Congress for assuming a part of the
dtbt of this ft ate it it agreed, that ij the whole of the
sum allowed to be subscribed by the holders oj our pub
lic fecvrities shall not be subscribed within the present
year, that this (late Jhall receive from the United States
interest according to the provifon oj the afi upon so
mvch of the sum proposed to be loaned as Jhall not be
so subscribed. Which interest so received by the]!ate,
is to be received in trust for the non-fubj'cribing cre
ditors oj this Commonwealth, until there Jhall be a set
tlement oj accounts between this and the United States.
If measures could be adopted to raise the credit of the go
vernment so far as that the holders of our public fecuritics
would place such a confidence in them, as they would in
the proposal of the United States, it would afford great
ease tothof creditors who have a right to subscribe to
wards the four millions, to apply to our own Treafary
for their interest. 1 propose thii idea for your atten
tion, but Jhall not enlarge upon it.
BOSTON, Jan. 29,
Lx trad of a letter from London.
" Mi. El l iot, late resident at the Court of Sweden, from this
country, is named Ambaifador to the United States ot America.
He is a gentleman of the firlt family in this country, and is much
attached to yours. In this appointment Miniitry have adopted a
principle of regard forihe piomoiion of the intercourse and a li
beral trade between the two nanons. The American credit is ra
pidly appreciating in this country—and the refpeft tor the stars
and stripes is iucreafing throughout all Europe."
NEW-YORK, Feb. 8
At a Stated Meeting of the GENERAL SO
CIE TYofMEC HANicsandTRADESMEN of the Ci
ty of New-York, on the evening of the 2d. instant,
a circular letter signed by Joseph Snowden and
otheis, a committee of the mechanics, tradefinein
and others, citizens of the city and county of
Philadelphia, together with a memorial of the
said committee to the legislature of the United
States, praying an exemption for apprentices and
minors Irom militia dury were laid before the
iociety
The said papers having been read, and duly
considered, the following resolutions were adopt
ed.
Resolved, firft, that a committee of fix be ap
pointed to make a reply to the representation of
Joseph Snowden and others, a committee of the
mechanics and tradesmen of the city of Philadel
phia, on *the fubjeift of their memorial to Con
gress, refpecfiing an exemption of apprentices
and minors from militia duty.
Secondly, that Francis Cliilds, William W.
Gilbert, Anthony Poll, John Campbell, James
Tylee, and John Stagg, be a committee for the
purpose above mentioned.
Thirdly, that in the opinion of this society it
is, neither neceflkry nor expedient for them at
the present jundiure, to make any representation
to Congress, concerning the organization of the
militia
Fourthly, that it is the opinion of this society,
should the operation of the militia law prove in
jurious to the morals or subordination of appren
tices and minors, or fubje<ftthem or their mailers
to any unreasonable inconvenience, the national
legislature will in such cafe take the matter into
cenlideration, and afford a remedy to the evil as
soon as it is found to exist.
Fifthly, that as in the opinion of this society
the good or bad operation of militia Jaw, cannot
well be determined but by an experiment, we
should be left too much to conjecture,in making
any interference at this stage of the business ;
considering at the fame time, that the molt pro
per season to make any representation ill this
matter will be, when facts resulting from their
own experience, or happening within their own
observation, can be adduced to corroborate the
points set forth in a memorial.
By order of the Society,
JGTHAM POST, Chairman.
11l obedience to the resolutions aforementioned
the following letter inclosing the said resoluti
ons has been tranlmitted to Philadelphia, direct
ed to Mr. Joseph Snowden, chairman of a com
mittee, appointed at a refpedlable meeting of the
tradefinen, mechanics, and other citizens of the
city and county of Philadelphia
SIR,
WE do ourselves the honor toinclofe you some
refoliitions palled at a slated meeting of" the me
chanics and tradesmen of the city of New-York.
These resolutions may be considered as a reply
to the memorial which thie tradesmen, mechanics
and other citizens of Philadelphia, have lately
presented to Congress relative to an exemption
for apprentices and minors from militia duty.
We fball at all times be happy toco-operate with
you, in such measures as we deem benefici-
al to our refpeiflive avocations, or conducive to
the publicintereft ; but in the present instance,
we do not imagine those objetfts will be promoted
in concurring the memorial above mentioned.
FRANCIS CHILDS,
WILLIAM W. GILBERT,
ANTHONY POST,
JOHN CAMPBELL,
JAMES TYLEE,
JOHN STAGG.
To Mr. J. SNOWDEN, Chairman, &c
On tlie 28th ult. the following question was
agitated inthe Mafliichufetts Iloufe of Aflembly
" Whether the Hon. David Sewall, Esq. return
ed a member from York, holding the office of
dillrict judge of the United States, has a right to
a feat 111 this house ?" After a long and "argu
mentative discussion, it was determined by yeas
and nays, as follows: Yeas 5, Nays 113.
The inagidrates of New-London have hit upon
an excellent method of pimiihing petty crimi
nals, and at the fame time making them ufeful
to the public. Great numbers who have been
confined one, two, or three years in the prison
called Newgate, have, at the expiration of their
rime, been turned out complete mailers of the
nailing bi-finefs, who, when they were put in,
were acquainted with no other arc than ihop
lifling aad house-breaking.
739
New-York, Feb. 3. 179 1
CHARLES i ON > Jan. 14.
Presentment of the Grand Juky for the Dif-
triet ot Cheraws
WE the Grand Jurors of and for the diftrkt
of Cheraws, do present the inefficacy of the pre
sent punishment for killing negroe«, as a great
defec r t in the legal fyllein of this Itate, ami we
do earnestly recommend to the attention of the
legislature, that clause of the negro aift which
confines the penalty of killing llav e s to fine and
imprisonment only ; in full confidence that tliey
will provide some other more effectual ineafures
to prevent the freijuencyof crimes of this nature,
and that they will make the condition of this
class of people as happy and comfortable as a Itate
of slavery will admit of.
Philadelphia, Feb. 12.
Forty-one fail of American vcflels were in the port of Charier
ton, South-Carolina, the 19th ult. of these, twenty-ieven were from
New-England, two from New-York, one from Hudson, two
from Philadelphia, fix from Charlefton,and three from Maryland—
A correspondent observes This does not look like flittering
the produce of the Southern States to rot, for want of velTels to
carry it to market; if they cannot get freight owing to a partiali
ty in favor of foreigners, does it not indicate a deficiency in the
laws for encouraging our own navigation, or " that theie is some
thing rotten in the State of Denmark ?"
It is now fully demonstrated, that the/hipping
of the United States, if not at this moment com
petent to transporting the whole produce of the
southern Hates to marker, would be made so, un
der due encouragement in a few months.—An
unnecellary preference therefore in favor of fo
reigners would be commercial futcids.
A correspondent obferves—lf the opinion of
all the inhabitants of the United States could be
collected, 1 am fully perluaded there would be
two to one in favor of the excise on spirituous *
liquors—mothers, wives and lifters, would chear
fully afl'ent to it ; fathers would join in senti
ment. When I behold reason the boalled pre
eminence of man over the beast—expunged as it
were by the exceflive draughts of this poisonous flu
id ; and when I refledt upon the melancholy con
sequences of intoxication, I am ready to wish (if
it could be collected) that 100 per cent, duty
was laid upon it. But perhaps lam wrong, it
is doubtless a republican drink, and all from the
highest to the lowest, when they have copiously
drank, are reduced to one level ; no odious dil
tinctions any longer exist ; indeed it is fliorten
ing being's chain by uniting the links of hu
man and brute, so as to make them but one.
A correspondent observes, that the act foi in
corporating the fubferibers to the Bank of the
United States, is a measure of such universal uti
lity, in refpett to the revenue, and the commer
cial intercourse, and accommodation of the inha
bitants of every part of the union, that its pas
sage through Congress is really a fubje<t of con
gratulation to every citizen of the United States.
It was to be expected the subject would receive
the fantfiion of the legillature, with a great de
gree of harmony, and finally pass both lioufesby
a very large majority—this expectation has been
realized, and thereby the fyltem of finance and
revenue is rendered compleat.
A correspondent observes, that the copious
allusions to the federal government, contained in
the speech of his Excellency Governor Hancock,
futficiently indicate the interest which the legis
lature of rlie commonwealth of Maflachufeits
feels in the government of the union ; this is
patriotism and policy—for the refpett fliewn to
Congress by the individual governments, is re
flected with encreafed lustre on tliemfelves; may
we never forget that we are one.
TO CORRESPONDENTS.
The Elegy on Mrs. though it may he interesting to the
friends of the deceased, we think would not be so to a majority
of our readers.
Cv ktius came too late for this day's Gazette ; but shall 2ppear
on Wednelctay ; Other favors neccffarily postponed.
PRICE CURRENT. PUiSEIC SECURITIES,
FUNDED DEBT.,
6 pr. Cents 1 7 /6. i-J8 pr . £ 88} pr. cent.
3 pr. Cents q/ 2 . . <] 0
Defered 6 pr. Cents 9/2. 4 6 d Q .
UNFUNDED DEBT.
final Settl.and oilier Certificates 16/3.
Indents '
N. and S. Carolina, debts, 12/.
ARRIVALS at the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Sloop Friendihip, Reeves, Tdppahannock.
Clary, M'Williams, do.
Tryal, Welsh, Wilmington,
Schooner Polly, Hodge, Edenton.
Fredericktburg Packet, Stevens, Cadiz.
The seat ok the late governor
L 1 V 1 N G S T 0 N,
situate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
Morris Town. The farm contains between 90 and 100 acres of
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about 19 acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
the farm a very large collection of various kinds of the choicest
fruit trees, &c. in full bearing; the houfc is large, convenient,
well built and in veiy good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars.
New-York, Jan. 1791.
Signed by twenty Jurors,
81J do.
46 do.
60 do.
TO BE SOLD,
to ym— i
Report ef the Secretary of the Trtafury, on the sub- ]
jiil of a Mint.
Tlie Secretary of the Treasury having attentively j
considered the fiibjetft referred to him by the ]
order of the House of Reprefetuati ves at" the
fifteenth of April lad, relatively to the estab
lishment of a Mint, mod refpetitfully submits
the result of his enquiries and reflections.
A PL AN for an eftablidiment of this nature, invokes a great
>T~Y. vaiiety of considerations, intricate, nice, and impoitant.
The general date of debtor and creditor ; all the relations and
consequences ot price; the essential interedsof trade and indudrv;
the value of all properly ; the whole income both of the State and
of individuals, are liable to be sensibly influenced, beneficially,
or otherwise, by the judicious, or injudicious regulation of this
interfiling object. .
It is one likewise, not more necefTary than difficult to b" right
ly adjuded ; one which has frequently occupicd the rrdefltons
and rcfearches of politicians, without having harmonised their
opinions on some of the moil important of the principles which
enter into its difcuflion. Accordingly, different systems con
tinue to be ad»ocatc(!, and the fydems of different nations, after
much invedigation, continue to differ from each other.
But if a right adjudment of the matter be truly of such nicety
and difficulty, a quedion naturally arifrs, whether it may not be
mod advifeable to leave things, in this relpeft, in the Hare in which
they are ? Why, might it be asked, since they have so long pro
ceeded in a train, which has caused no general sensation of in
convenience, diould alterations be attempted, the precise effeftof
which cannot with certainty be calculated ?
The answer to this quedion is not perplexing.—The immtnle
disorder which a£tually reigns in so delicately and important a
concern, and the (till greater disorder which is every moment
podible, call loudly for a reform. The dollar, originally contem
plated in the money tranfa&ions of this country, by fucceflive di
minutions of its weight and finenefs, has fudained a depreciation
of 5 per cent. And yet the new dollar has a currency in all pay
ments in place of the old, with scarcely any attention to the dif
ference between them. The operation of this in depreciating the
value of property, depending upon pad contracts ; and (as far as I
inattention to the alteration in the coin may be luppofed to leave
prices ftationarv) of all other property is appaient. Nor can it
require argument to prove, that a nation ought not to differ the
value of the property of its citizens to fluctuate with the fluilua
tions ot a foreign mint, and to change with the changes in the re
gulations of a foreign sovereign. 1 his,neverthelcfs, is the con
dition of one, which having no coins of itsown, adopts with im
plicit confidence thofeof other countries.
Theunequal values allowed in different pans of the Union to
coins of the fame intrinsic worth ; the delcttive species of them,
which rmbarraffes the circulation of some of the States ; and the
diflimilarity of their fevcial monies of account, are inconvenien
ces, which if not to l>e ascribed to the wantof a uat-oeal coinage,
will at least be mod effeflually remedied by the edablifhmeut of
one ; a meafurc that will at the fame time give additional security
against impositions, by countei feit as well as by base currencies.
It was with great reason, therefore, that the a-.teniion of Con
gress, under the late confederation, was repeatedly drawn to the
fdablifhment of a mint; and it is with equal reason that the fu'j
jeft has been resumed ; now that the favorable change which has
taken place in the duration of public affairs, admits of its being
carried into execution.
But though the difficulty of devidng a proper edablifhment
ou»ht not to deter from undertaking so necessary a work ; yet it
ennnot but inspire diffidence in one, whose duty it is made, to
propose a plan for the purpose, and may perh.ips be permuted to
be relied upon as some excuse for any errors which may becharge
able upon it, oi for any deviations from founder principles, which
may have been suggested by others, or even in pait atted upon by
the former government of the United States.
In order to a right judgment ot what ought to be done, the fol
lowing particulars require to be difcuffrd :
:d.°What ought to be the nature of the money unit of the
United States ?
2. What the proportion between gold and diver, if coins of
both metals are to be edablifhed ?
3d What the propoition and compodtion of alloy in each
kind ?
4th. Whether the expence of coinage (hall be defrayed by the
government, or out of the material itfelf ?
,sth. What shall be the number, denominations, dzes, and de
vices of the coins ?
6th. Whether foreign coins (ball be permitted to be current or
not; if the former, at what rate, and foi what period.
A prc-requidte to determining with propriety what ought to be
the money unit of the United States, is to endeavour to form as ac
curate an idea as the nature of the cafe will admit of, what it ac
tually is. The pound, though of various value, is the unit in the
monev of account of all the States. But it is not equally easy to
pronounce what is to be conddered as the unit in the coins. There
being no formal regulation on the point (the resolutions of Con
grefsol the 6th of July, 1785, and Bth of August, 1786, having
never yet been carried into operation) it can only be inferred from
usage or practice. The manner ot adjusting foreign exchanges,
would fcem to indicate the dollar as belt entitled to that charac
ter. In thefc, the old piaflre of Spain, or old Seville piece of
eight rials, ot the value of four (hillings and dx-pence derling, is
evidently contemplated. "1 he computed par between Great-Bri
tain and'Pennfylvauia will ferre as an example. Accord : ng to
that, one hundred pounds derling is equal to one hundred and
hxty-dx pounds and two-thirdsof a pound Pennfylvama currency;
which corresponds with the proportion between 4J6 derling and
7/6 the current value of the dollar in that dale, by invariable usage.
And as far as the information of the Secretary goes, the fame coin
parifon holds in the other dates.
But this circumdance in favour of the dollar, loses much of its
weight from two considerations. That Ipecies of coin has nevei
had any fettled or dandard value, according to weight or duenefs,
but has been permitted to circulate bv tale, without regard to ei
ther; very much as a mere money of convenience ; while gold
has had a fixed price by weight, and with an eye to its dnenefs.
This greater dability of value of the gold coins, is an argument
of force for regarding the money unit as having been hitherto vir
tually attached to gold, rather than to diver.
Twenty-four giains and 6-8 of a grain of fine gold, have cor
responded with the nominal value of the dollar in the several dat s;
•without regard to the fuccedive diminutions of its intriridc
■worth.
But if the dollar {hould, notwithdanding, be supposed to have
the bed title to being considered as the present unit in the coins, it
would remain to determine what kind of dollar ought to be under
stood, or, in other words, what precise quantity of fine diver.
The old piadre of Spain, which appears to have regulated our
foreign exchanges, weighed 17 dwt. 12 grains, and contained 386
grains and 15 mites of fine diver. But this piece has been long
since out of circulation. The dollars now in common currency
are ot recent cate, and much inferior to that, both in weight and
finenefs. The average weight of them, upon different trials in
large masses, has been found to be 17 dwt. 8 grains. Their fine
nefs is less prec'fel} ascertained ; the results of various essays made
by different persons, under the direction of the late fupcrirtendant
of the finances and of the Secretary, being as various as the essays
themselves. The difference between their extremes is nest less
ban 24 grains in a dollar, of the fame weight and age ; which is
too much for .any probable differences in the pieces. It is rather
to be prelumed that a degree of inaccuiacy has been occasioned
by the want of proper apparatus, and in general, of practice. The
experiment which appears to have the best pretentions to exa£l
nefs, would make the new dollar to contain 370 grains and 933
thoufandih parts of a grain of pure silver.
According to an authority, ori which the Secretary places re
liance, the standard of Soain for its silver coin in the year 1761,
was 261 parts fine and 27 paits alloy ; at which proportion, a
dollar of 17 dwt. 8 grains, would con fill of 377 grains of fine fil
vcr, and 39 grains of alloy : But there is no queflion that this
standard has been iince altered confidcrably for the worse ; to
what precise point is not as well afceriained as could be wished ;
but from a computation of the value of collars in the markets both
of Amflerdam and London (a criterion which cannot materially
mislead) the new dollai appears to contain 368 grains of fine sil
ver, and that which immediately preceded it about 374 grains.
In this Hate there is some difficulty in defining the
dollar, which is to be understood as Constituting the present mo
ney unit ; on the supposition of its being moll applicable to that
species of coin. The old Seville piece of 386 grains and 15
mites fine, comports belt with the computations of foreign ex
changes, and with the more ancient contrasts relpe&ing landed
property; but far the greater number of contra6ls Hill in opera
tion concerning that kind of property, and all those of a merely
personal nature, now in force, mud be referred to a dollar of a
different kind. The a£tual dollar at the time of contra&ing is
the only one which can be supposed to have been intended, and
it has been seen, that as long ago as the year 1761, there had been
a material degradation ot the standard. even in regard to
the more ancient contracts, no person has ever had any idea of a
scruple about receiving the dollar of the day, as a full equivalent
for the nominal sum, which the dollar originally imported.
A recurrence therefore to the ancient dollar would be in the
greatest number of cases an innovation in fatt, and in all, an in
novation in refpeft to opinion. The actual dollar, in common
circulation, has evidently a much better claim to be regarded as
the a£lual money unit.
The mean intrinsic value of the different kinds of known dol
lars has been intimated as affording the proper criterion. But
when it is recollected, that the more ancient and more valuable
ones are not now to be met with at all in circulation, and that
the mass of thofc generally current is composed ot the newelt and
most interior kinds, it will be perceived, that even an equation
ot that nature would be a considerable innovation upon the real
present (late of things ; which it will certainly be prudent to ap
proach, as far as may be confident with the permanent order, de
signed to be introduced.
An additional reason for considering the prevailing dollar,
as the fhndard of the present money unit, rather than the ancient
one, is, that it will not only be conformable to the true existing
proportion between the two metals in this country, but will be
more conformable to tnat which obtains in the commercial world,
generally. (To be continued.)
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
No. gi, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds ofI>ECURITIES of the United States, or of any
Philadelphia, Feb. 1790,
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
T E
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c.
Of the firfl Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street,between Chefnut and Market-Streets,
N. B. A few Tickets inthe New-York Lottery,
■which is to be drawn tht firjt of April next, jor [ale.
New Line of Stages.
THE Subscriber has eftablifhrd a line ot STAGES from Hart
ford to Bollon, by way of Norwich and Providence, which
will run thro twice a week during the Winter Season, and three
times a week duyng the Summer Season.
Gor>d Carriages, Horses, and careful Drivers are provided.
PafTengers pay three Pence per Mile, and are allowed 14 pound
Baggage each. Extra Baggage pays at the rate of three Pence
per Mile for every 150 wt. As the Mail is to go in these Stages
for the year 1 791, fixed hours for flatting from the refpe£live Stage
Houses is absolutely neceffary—from which there can be nodevia
tion. Norwich, Dec. 14, 1790.
The Stage for the Eastward leaves
Hartford Mondays and Thursdays,
Norwich Tuesdays and Fridays,
Providence Wednesdays and Saturdays,
For the Weflward, leaves Boston- Mondays and Thursdays,
Providence Tuesdays and Fridays,
Norwich Wednesdays and Saturdays.
JESSE BROWN. 69—iw 3 m
THE Copartnerfliip of HE WES and ANTHONY having ex
pired the 31ft ultimo, they rcqueft those, who have any de
mands, to exhibit their accounts and receive their money; and
hofc who arc indebted, are desired to make speedy payment, to
either of the Subscribers, at their Compting-Houfe, No. 5, Chef
nut-Street-Wharf. J O S I A H H E W F.-S,
Philadelphia, Jan. 15, 1791
N. B. They have yet on hand, and for SALE, at their STORE
abovementioned,
HYSON, Souclvong, and Bohea TEAS,
Three cases Caflia,
Pimento in bags,
Muscovado Sugar,
A few Cases old Batavia Arrack,
One cask of Durham MuAard,
New England Rum m hogsheads and barrels,
A quantity of prime Boston Beef,
Spermaceti, right whale and tanners' Oil,
Best pickled Mackrel,
6by B—7 by 9 —8 by 10 —9 by 11 —and 10 by 12 Window
Glass,
A quantity of excellent carrot Tobacco,
And an elegant CHAN DELIER.
INFORMATION WANTED.
JQ" THE Subscriber requejh, if any gentleman
can give him information of a parchafe of Lands made
by a Mr. Daniel Richardet, in the year 1781 and
1782, in fame part of the United States, he will be so
kind as to inform his Brother, by diretting a line to
him, at the Print-rr's office. S. RICHARDET.
January, 1791
740
particular State,
A S
JOSEPH ANTHONY
Martinico Coffee,
(aaw6w.)
PRICE CURRENT. PHILADELPHIA.
PER QUANTITY.
FEBRUARY 12.—Dollars at 7/6.
ANCHORS pr. lb. 6}d
Al!um, En<^li(h, pr. cwt. 36/
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. \cd
Arties, pot, per ton, 35 a 37/1 or
Arrack pr. gall. icj 12s 6d
Brandy, common, j*6d
-Cogniac 8r 4d
Braz;!etto, pr. ton. 12/ a 16/
Bricks pr. M 30 s
Bread, (hip pr. cwt. ißj6i 19 s
Ditto, pilot 3,5s
Ditto, small water 45/
Beer, American, in bot. / ,
pr. doz. £ 0 4
pr. bbl. 30/
f Oak pr.M feet, 4/IOJ 4/181
| Merch. pine 4/10s 4/ 15 s
Sap, do. 2l'ys6d 3/
O I -N. Eng. 2/5/ 2/ js 6d
L Cedar 4/ 4/5J
The above are the Shallop prices ;
jor the Yard prices add 1 pr M.
Brimstone in rolls pr. cwt. 24 s
( Irish pr. bbl. 55 s 60s
u ) Bolon 55'
CQ (Country 481501
Butier pr. lb. 12d
in kegs 10d
Cedar,red timber pr.foot 2S2i6d
Chocolate pr. lb. % i?d
Coal pr. bulhel nZd
Coffee pr. lb. is 2d
Cinnamon ißi 20j
Caflia 4?
Cheese, English u 6d
Country 6d 7£d
2 fSper. pr. lb. 3 s $d 3s6d
Q Myrtle Wax tszd
*3 | Mould,tallow \\d\id
O (.Dipped 9^9h4
Cotton 1* \d u B*/
Cutrants 1*62/
Cloves 15*
Copperas pr.cwt. 15J iys6d
Cordage 6oj 6256 d
Cocoa 62i€d 6756 d
Duck, Rufiia, pr. piece Boj 85J
Ravens 65J 70J
Flour, Superfine, pr. bbl. 451
Common, 42.?
Bur middlings,beft 37s
Middlings 341
Ship-fluff pr. cwt. 14/ i6j
Flax pr. lb. 8d 9d
Fustic pr. ton, 135J 150s
Feathers pr. lb. 2j 4d
Flaxfeed pr. bulh. 5J 3d
Glue, pr.cwt. 7/ ioj 8/
Ginger, whiterace 52s 6d
Ditto, common 50 s
Ditto, ground pr. lb. is 2d
Ginseng, 2s
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. ?
quarter calk, ) 3 0S
Ditto, fine glazed 37J 6d
G'n, Holland, pr. gall. 5s
pr. cafe,
3°' 35'
\ Wheat pr. bufn BiSdgs
R >' e .5'
_ OatS \sßd2s6d
< <( Iridian corn 2s6d 3r
w Barley 4J gd
Best ftielled 20s
Buckwheat 2j6
Hams pr. lb. yd &d
Hemp, pr. ton, 50/56/
hoops, pr. M 5/ 6/
Herrings, pr. bbl. 20s
Hides, raw pr. lb. yd 10d
Hops 2s^d?s6d
Indigo, French, 7s 6d 12s
■ Carolina 4 s 7s 6d
Irons, fad pr. cwt.
[ Callings 2256 d 30 j
"Z | Bar pr. ton, 29/30/
2 < pi g
5 1 Sheet 60/65/
Nail rods 36/
Junk, pr. cwt. 27 s 35*
Lard, hogs- 9d 10d
Lead in pigs 40J 42J 6d
in bars 4ss 505
Lead, white 80j 85;
■ r ed 4- J 6d
Leather, foal pr. lb. i.r 2d is\d
Lignum vita: pr. ton 42J 45s
Logwood 7/ 5 s 8/
M ai, Indian, pr. bbl. iqj
Rve 28f
Mackare!,befl; 60s
-Common 30J 52.) 6d
Mace pr. lb. 701
Mustard 2j 4d
Madder, best isStlisgd
Molafles pr. gall.
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 131-
Mart spars 6s js6d
Mahogany 8 d 12 d
Nutmegs pr. lb. 60s 67s 6d
Nails, iodi?.d&c 2od— 8d &kdqd
t r i ' 3
C Liniced, pr. gall. 31 gd
j 1 rain 1 j 2s
j Spermaceti 3s *d
I Whaie is 10d 2s
q Olive 61 6</
I Ditto pr. cafe 28J 30J
1 Best sweet in ) c , c
flafk S ,pr.box,s s«6''6oj
L--bafkets 12 bottles 28*
Oak. timber pr. ton 40*
Porter in casks, pr. gal!. Vs
1 °ndon,pr.doz.i2* 6d 15J
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,I
January 25, 1791. J
THE Public Creditors are reminded that, in order to the pro
per dispositions for paving the Interest in the several States,
it is neceflary that the amount to be paid in eaeh fliould be pre
vjoufly known at the Treasury. And as the expiration of the fii'ft
quarter is not far distant, it is wilhed that those who have not yet
done it, may be expeditious in making and fignifying their elec
tion, pursuant to the a£t making provision for the debt of the
United States.
Porter, American pr. do*. jj r
Pitch, pr. bbl.
Pork, liurltngton,
Lower county 70jij-.r
Carolina 6oc
Peas, Albany ys6dSs^,l
Pepper, pr. lb. 2,c
Pimento 11 6,/
Rice pr. cwf. o^ T
Rosin pr. t>bl. jr,
lUifins, befi, pr. Jicj
Ditto pr.jar , )S
Duto pr. box 17s 6tt
r |amdica pr. gal). 5 j 6d 61
j Antigua s
g J Windward
p> "j Birbadoes 4 j
I Country, N. E. 3 J 3 .[,i
L raffia is\d 2s6d
SafTafras pr. ton 60s
Saltpetre, pr. cwt. 6/10 s
Sulphur, flour 40/41/
Shot SCJ
_j f German pr. cwf. 60*70/
W ) English, 82s fid
y American pr. ton 40/60/
(Crowley's pr. fag;. 4/io.r
Snake root pr. lb. 1 s 6d 2sBJ
Soap, Common cd 6d
■ Brown 6 d
Castile 84 gd
Starch 1
Snuff is6d 3 s 6d
Spermaceti, refined, * 01
Sail Cloth, English, ) r , .
pr. yard, 'J »« ««<f
Boston, No. I
—No. ir. 2s .u
RulTia (heeling, pr. p. go*
pLump, pr. lb. is
Pi ; l.oaf, finale refined is6d
Ditto, double do. isio'd
| Havannah, white j id
f Ditto, brown, BJlOd
I Mufcovada.pr.cwt
Spirits Turpentine pr. gall. 3sqd
. Allum pr. bu(h. 2J2Sgd
_j 1 Liverpool 2sbd
< \ Cadiz Ps
(Lisbon us id m6d
Ship build. W.O. frames ) 80/
P- $ 85x
Do. LO. & red C. do. 61 61
Shingles, fhoit, p. M. i 5 .( 20 .r
long dreiTed gos 1 ocr
itling, heart, go.i 15OJ
Scani
— Jd P . 4 2J 45 s
r I"ipc pr. 1 sco pieces 12/
£■W. O. hogthcad ;/
> \ R. °. do. 5 i s ,
<|Le° g , n 5 i
<n Bai "l 4/15/
L Heading 8/ioi
' Otter, bed pr. piece 30*
Minks nCd gr
Fox, grey QJ £f
rf d 61 7 j
Martins
2 • Fishers 2s6d y
t/> Bears iisSd 25J
Racoons 2s 41
Musk-rats 9 d isbi
Braver, pr. lb. 5s aej
in hair
Tar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. gs
Carolina, 32 gall. 131
Turpentine iys6d
• Spirits, pr.gall. 9d
. C James R. new bcft 32J6d
""i inferior 23/2,51
o old 3 5 s 38.r
Rappahannock 22s 64
C J Colo. Maryland 40J 60/
Dark 20 s
Long-leaf 20j
F.aftern-fliore 15 s 16s
! Carolina, new 23J 25s
L old oox
V. JU..
( Hyson pr. lb. js&j qd
v: I Hyson fk-n, 4/ 4s 6d
Souchong, bcft 7s6d 8/
H I Congo, 3*^3*9^
[Bohca, 2J yd
Tallow, refined gd
Tin pr. box, no/ii2j6i
Verdigreafe pr. lb. 4* 4J 6d
Vermillion,
Varnifti, of 2j 3-^
J' Madeira, pr. pipe 40/80/
Lisbon % 40/
Tenetiffe 22/ioj 24/
u Fayal pr. gall. 3*i</3.<3</
J Port pr. pipe 39/ 40/
Ditto pr. gall.
r " Do. in bottles, pr. doz. 30/
Claret 3OJ 451
1 Sherry pr. gall. 6s gd gs
Malaga 4s 5s
Wax, Bees pr. lb. 2S is 2d
Whale-bone, long pr. lb. 113 d
lhort, pr. lb. is logi
' COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Bills of Exchange, London,
go days, 7o
Ditto 60 days
Ditto 30 days 73§
Amsterdam, 60 days,
pr. guilder, 3J5
30 days 3s 1 d
France, 60 days,pr.s liv. 6s 8d
30 days 6s \o<£
77 1 (»
2! 3 J