PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 80, of Vol. ll.] Wednesday, February 2, 1791.
The Tablet No. 155.
(general subject continued and concluded)
" The people of this country are employed in such
a -way cis forrnt a charafler jjtojl compatible vj:tn tn:
enjoyment of civil liberty."
THAT a person fliould think favorably ofhim
felf and his lunation, conduces very much
to his acting with propriety and spirit. lhe
fame remark may be applied to his political, no
less than to liis personal tranfac'tions. It is of
importance that a man, in order to be a Iteadj
patriot, and a valuable citizen, fiiouM view the
government under which he lives, with as much
confidence and refpedl as it deserves. It his
sentiments be strongly tinged with prejudices
and suspicions, for which there is 110 real foun
dation, all his e(Forts to pi eferve the government
will be cold or petulant ; and he can never de
rive pleasure by anticipating the prosperity of
his country, so long as he does not believe it is in
a jair way to pro/per. To have opinions well ef
tabliihed, and feelings well disposed with regard
to public affairs, one should not listen too much
to the insinuations of men who are prone to pre-
dict evil, and itnpofe censure, whenever they
make public measures the theme ot their con
verfition. There is ahappinefs as well as a util
ity in having our opinions and feelings so justly
accommodated to the state of things, that we may
cherish no filly or ncedlefs anxieties about future
contingencies. With this idea in view, I have
employed the fix preceding eflays in a series of
remarks upon the causes that operate te (ecure
the freedom, and promote the prosperity of our
happy country. It has been my intention to il
lustrate, that these desirable objeifts retted on
fucli a basis, as could not be deltroyed or shaken
by casualties similar to those, which had over
thrown the ancient republics. As the remarks
and reasonings have not been reduced to any re
"■ular fvflern, but have been communicated in a
desultory manner, there is a propriety in my
bringing them into a summary view, before 1
close the fubjetft.
First of all, however, ft is incumbent on me to
remark, that when 1 am speaking of the govern
ment of this country, I have no fpecific reference
either to the national or Stale authorities I
view them altogether as forming one complete
Government, ihe duty as vvell as the heft m
terefts of the citizens are concerned, in having
each legislature confining its attention to the
objevS, for which they are now severally inftitu-
But to proceed.—lt has been a leading idea in .
thf difcullion of the present fnbjedt ; that, as ,
the character and ci.rcumftances of the people ot
the United States do not relemble those ot any
othe- nation, either ancient or modern, we can
not fiirly make their cafe a precedent for our
own. The occupations of men have such a pow
erful .influence upon their moral character, that
we havt only to know how the people ot any
country ire employed, to ascertain the probabi
lity, whether they will be molt inclined to a so
ber and virtuous, or to a vicious and difordeily
conduift. We must always look to the character
of individuals, as anefleniial point to be regard
ed in eftimatiag the chances that may afFetfi the
welfare of the community. It cannot, indeed,
too often be repeated, that the state of society,
more than the form of government, fliould be
contemplated, in ?.ll our hopes and fears, with
refpeA to that propitious combination of law
and liberty which qualifies the excefles of both.
And, as theinliabitants ofthe United States have
those employments and consequently those cha
raifteriltics which form a good ftatij of society,
may we not fafely infer, that we may escape those
dilafters, to which the antient republics were |
exposed, only because they had those employ
ments and consequently those charadleriltics
which form a bad itate of society ?
Other remarks also have been made, to ex
plain away the fears (ome people may entertain,
left our encreafing wealth and luxury should
prove <reftrucftive to our morals and freedom.
The dillblute manners of antient times, though
prefetrted to our imagination under their worfl
afpecl, should not inspire us with terror, or check
our avarice and industry. We gain
our property, as a people, by flow and imper
ceptible degrees, and form such habits in the
course of the acquifitioii, as will guard us against
a desire for those abftird and barbarous recrea
tions, and that capricious extravagance, into
which those nations unavoidably plunged, who
ama lied wealth with rapidity and rapine. The
ancient, warlike lepublics gained excenfive con
quells, and pollelled immense stores of riches,
before they had learned toeftimate their value,
or control their application. It could not but
be expedtec: therefore, that degeneracy and ru
in would be their fate. That kind of luxury
which attends the gradual prosperity of an in
dustrious people operat.es as a forcible spring to
industry, and creates that elasticity in society,
which gives motion to the inoft ufeful, and vir
tuous operations. Refinement does not neceflari
ly imply vice, nor deflroy liberty. Upon the
whole, as we do not acquire property in such
modes as the antients did ; and as their wealth
became pernicious only by the modes in which
it was acquired, our apprehensions may be at reft
on this point.
But I have further suggested, that probably
few individuals in this country, can ever ac- |
cumulate enormous riches. The reason affigti
ed for this conjeiflure is, that the bufinel's of this
country is distributed among so many hands,
that immense gains will not fall to the share of
any great portion ot adventurers.
The talk of legislation mull: lose much of its
irkfomenefs when it is employed (upon citizens
who are so occupied, that they may be fafely left
to their own difcretjon in the management of
their own affairs. There is nothing to be feared
on the part of the government, from the prof
perity of individuals, thus situated. The peo
ple of this country can discern too well what
promotes the public inte.reft, and are too willing
to embrace wife measures, to reft long fatisfied
with frivolous, defective initiations, or to (hew
a temper of refinance to those that are judicious,
liberal and efficient. The flight Iketches that
have been offered in this and some preceding es
says, upon the character and situation of this
country, may lead the speculative mind into a
train of reflections, and draw from him new and
important light upon a fubjecl which cannot be
too much contemplated.
FOR THE GAZETTE Of THE UNITED STATES.
Extract oj a letter to a Mtmier of Congrejs, datei
January 14, I 79 1 -
" E of the effects of our preterit govern
v_/ merit is the forming connections and im
proving social intercourse amougthofe who wer«
before ltrangers to each other. Had it not beer
"or our political union, I might never have had
iny other relation to you, than what came b)
he way of Adaip ; but now I have the honor tc
■all Mr. my repfefentative, and truly so
jecalife the man of my choice. Viewing me it
his relation, you will not deem it impertinent il
drop a few words on a fubjetft which has much
my thoughts ; though perhaps what
nay fay cannot suggest to you one new idea.
" I perceive that ihe£)uakers are again coming
'orward with th-ir. petitions and memorials.
They profefs to be a peaceful, gentle, iiioftenfivs
;ind of people, enemies to all ltrifeand conten
ion ; but whoever is acquainted with their trw,
uftory, or has been intimately conversant among
hem for 20 jtears, of which 7 were years of w;u
md revolution in government, mult know thai
hey have no tetter claims to the character which
hey aflame, than any other equal number o!
nankind, taken at large ; their peculiaritie;
>ften render them troublesome to government
ind they have more complaints to make aboul
heir fufferingr than any other denomination ol
leople. The reason of this cannot perhaps be
riven in better words than tliofe of an honell
Zhief Justice of the Delaware counties, and i
jentleman of their own religions persuasion :
< To admit the ufefulnefs of civil government
o mankind, and yet to advance the polition that
ill manner of force and felf defence is unlawful,
sa fyftein full of inconfiltency and big with ab
"urdity and - nonsense."*
" A specimen r.f 1 think we
iave in a memorial to Congress juil now pub
irtied, by the yearly meeting at Philadelphia.
In one part they tell you, that they are " more
olicitous to promote the dominion of the prince
* See the addresso f SAMUEL Chew, Chief Justice of Delaware,
'o a grand jurr, in the year 1741, reprinted 111 Aitken's Penn
fyNania Magazine, for Auguil, i 775» P a g e 346, wherein the ar
guments of Robert Barc lay aga.nft war, are examined and
• efutcd.
725
HHso
[Whole No. i 84.]
of peace than to escape fufferings, Isecaufe ftrife
ind contention are forbidden." In another, that
they are conscientiously bound to refule pay
ment of every sum required in lieu of personal
service however laudable the purpose to which
the money is applied." Now if they are bound
to refufe paymeftt, is not this the fame as to fay
that they are bound in conscience to escape fuf
ferings, and to live in continual ftrife and con
tention with government ?
" That they should be indulged\n their notion
which they fay they confcientioiilly hold, of the
unlawfulnefs of war, aiul consequently exenip cd
from personal service, is a dic'iate both of mo
rality and of policy ; but that they should be ex
cused from a cempenfation for personal service
is not warranted by either ; not by morality be
canfe it takes away from them the power of giv
ing the only substantial proof of the sincerity of
their religious fern pies ; nor by policy, becatife
it (rives them an advantage over all other reli
gious denominations, none of which are known
in the constitution. Should they obtain the ex
emption which they a: e feeking,the natural con
sequence will be an increase of their party, for
every cowardly or difafie<sted citizen, every one
who from any principle whatever has an aver
sion to serving in the militia, and contributing to
the fuppoft of government, may plead, " 1 am
a Ouaker," and if you admit of a certificate from
their monthly meetings as an evidence of the
validity of his plea, you will put it into their
power to diminish your forces and y our refoui ces
at theit plealure. Besides, will not this amount
to a legal ellablifhinent quo ad hoc of the Q_uaker
form of religion, when no other form is even ac-
I knowledged by law to exist in the United States !"
PROVIDENCE, January 20.
F.xtrad 0} a letter from Philadelphia.. \
The militia system is befoi£!Lhj2_Houfe of Re
presentatives—they have been employed ufpSß-ic
fometiine. A New-England legiflatufe would
have probably finifhed it in lef's time than has al
ready been taken up—but let it be considered';
the people of New England have been accultom
ed to militia regulations from the earljeft ieftlc
rijent of the country —this has not been the-cafe
in so extetifive a degree in the Southern slates.
No object of legislation is of greater importance,
or attended with greater difficulties. The
ideas of rtie people in the Northern and Southern
parts of the union differ 011 many matters.—but
they are every dqy more and more assimilating in
their manners, in their dispositions, and are con
tinually flrengtbeuingin their attachment tb the
common good of our country. —OurSNort'ficrn
friends mud not therefore be too impatient, or
think that we are spending our time and their
money fruitlefsly.—Let them consider what great
things have been done—what.a profperousfj.tua
tion our country is in—how our credit is rising
at home and abroad, and let them hope for still
better things when the new government has its
full operation in the execution of those great na
tional Arrangements which cannot at once be e
stablished, but which-Congrefs are induflrioufly
employed in promoting. Senate are now
employed in framing a bill for the eflablifhment
of a National Bank.—lt' is probable that it will
in general be conformed to the plan recommend
ed by the Secretary of the Treasury, who has
been very affiduousin this business, and who most
deservedly has the confidence and efleem of the
nation.—His indefatigablenefsin building up the
national government is unparalleled in our coun
try. From the time that he signed the constitu
tion in 1 787 to this day he has not ceased on all oc
casions to labourinceflantly in its support. The
two volumes of the federalift written by liim,
and the plan of Finance and national arrange
ments which he has proposed, fliew liim to pos
sess a great and comprehensive mind, capable of
forefeeing consequences.
" The eftabliflimetit of a national mint, and
coinage feenis to be wiflied for by the legislature
and the nation at large, and I cannot but hope
that we (hall, before many months are elapsed,
have an American coinage, of gold, silver and
copper. A plan is now preparing for that pur
j pose, and is in considerable forwardnefs."
MASSACHUSETTS SLM-AXNUAL LOTTERY
£ f Thf Managers of the STATE LOTTERY ;:ffurc tl •
public, that the firft Class of the S?mi-anuual Lottery will pofnive-
Iv commence drawing on the day appointed, viz. the :7 ; h ot
March next. Arthe Managers have in their fevera! Monthly Lot
'e-rtes commenced drawing at the hour aligned, so they arc dct:r
---1 mined to be equally as puuftual io t : :j-VR THE GAZETTE OF THE UXITED STATES,
MR. FENNO,
Agreeable to thi hint hi No. 74 of your Gazette, J fend
yon the fotlnniing, which may enable your readers to
form foine ideas on
THE PRESENT STATE OF THE AMERICAN
NATION
Population of the united states,
Whites, 3,300,000 Blacks, 700,000
*Pieprefentatives to the general government, 65
Number of" fouls to each representative, 61,53s
Number of males between 16 anil 60,
Whites, 825,000 Blacks, 175j° 00
Number of persons exempted from militia
service, about — — —
Number of fighting men from 18 to 45,
about — — —
600,00
Cross amount oj duties, impoji and taxes, culhiied
in the year I 790.
For fupportof the general government,
payment of foreign interest, and to
create a finking fund, 2,500,000
Forfupport of the State governments, 1,500,000
Each foul pays i dollar.—Each male between
16 and 60, pays 4 dollars
The amount to be collected in the present year
will be greater, because piovifion rauft be made
for paying the interest on the national debt. —
The whole gross amount that will be necellary,
may be computed at 6,000,000 dollars-)- —out ot
■which the United States may have a finking
fund, which, in addition to the Western lands,
may reduce the debt, in a period of time not very
long, to a trifle. Each foul will then pay ij dol
lar. Each man, between 16 and 60, would pay
6 dollars ; but when it is considered that the re
venue of the United States is chiefly collected by
duties on consumption, and that the rich consume
more than the poor, it is probable that the poorer
class of citizens will not pay half a dollar a year.
The debt of the United States divides itfelf
into foreign and domestic.
The foreign debr,the interest of which
is payable in Europe, including t.lie
last 2,000,000 loan, may be comput
ed at — — —
This part of the debt is liable to augmentation,
as-there is power to borrow 12,000,000 to dif
chargc arrearages of interest, and to effedl some
changes in the debt, beneficial io the Union.
The domestic debt may be as follows—ou the
idea of the whole being subscribed—
6 per cents, bearing interest from ift
January,. 1791, about 19,000,000
6 per cents, bearing interest. from Ift
January, 1792,
6 per cents, bearing interest from iffc
January, 1801, — — 13,000,000
3 per cents, bearing interest from ] ft
January, 1791, — — 14,000,000
5 per cents, bearing intcreft from ift
January, 1792,
Interest to be provided in l 791.
On foreign debt,with neceflary charges, 600,000
* This number, in all probability, at the next general ckaion,
will be inereafed to one hundred.
+ Formed as Jollows, viz.
For the general government,
Annual expences of government, about 800,000
To pay foreign and domestic interest, about 3,000,000
For a finking fund, about 200,000
For the slate governments.
Annual expence of civil lift in each state ; interest
on debt not aflumed ; improvements in inland navi
gation and roads; poor rates ; city taxes ; contri
butions to clergy, and public buildings,
Which may be raised in the following manner, viz.
For the general government.
Jmpoft, including the additional duties and tonnage,
Excise, or duty on rum and other spirits imported,
or diftiUed within the United States,
For theJlaie governments.
Tax on carriages,
Tax on Slaves,
Tax on hotfes, cattle, fliecp, and other animals,
Tax on monies at intcri ft,
Tax on piofeflions andilock in trade,
Tax on houses and town lots,
Tax on land,
Tax on law proceedings,
Tax on collateral legacies,
And the Stairs may devise many others, if feme one or other o
hefe do not fait their purpose. One advantage may arise from
ihis divided mode of taxation, viz. an equalizing of the burthens
of nil the people of the State ; for if the system of taxation adopt
ed bv the general government Ihould fall partially on any defcrip
lion of persons, the (late legiOature may collect the neeefifary re
venue for state purposes, from those on whom the geneial revenue
4oes not fall.
Domcftic debt,
19",000,000 6 pr. cents. —
14,000,000 3 pr. cents. —
For i 792,
Foreign d«br, — —
29,000,000 6 pr. cents. —
21,000,000 3 pr. cents. —
Total annual interest until 1801, 2, I ) 7°> 000
Soine part of the domestic debt lias been en re
charged in the course of the last year, perhaps as
much as 300,000 dollars, the annual interelt ot
which, and the interelV on all other funis which
may be hereafter discharged, becomes an aug
mentation to the finking fund.
The whole debt of the United
States is about
I 00,000
What the debts due by the several
States will be, after c.he aflbmption,
is difficult to fay, but at 1110 ft cannot
exceed — — — —
The whole territory of the United States, is
1,000,000 square miles.
That part which is granted to individuals, or
which the United States, or particular States,
have a right to grant, may be computed at five
hundred thousand square miles, or 320,000,000
acres—which is 80 acres to each foul.
4,000,000
On the idea that the land is bound to pay
the whole debt, every square acre is mortgaged
for about 14 cents ; but if only that part which
is already in pofleflton of the United States, and
several States, be taken into view, then every
square acre will be mortgaged for about 28 cents,
and admitting that every acre of land, on an
average, is worth five dollars, it will then be
pledged for only oneeighteenth part of its value.
If we look among the European governments
for such as are neardt in extent to our own, we
fliall find France and Germany, together with
Spain, nearly equal to our present territory in
pofTellion ; but when we contemplate the whole
extent of our territory, we shall find it nearly
equal to France, the Netherlands, Germany, Po
land, Switzerland, Spain, Great Britain and Ire
land, Italy, Portugal, and Turkyin Europe.
It is said that tlie debt of Great-Britain is nearly
equal to one half the value of the whole property
of the people—whether in.land, cash-, (hips, i'cock
on lands, produce, manufactures, plate, jewels,
furniture, or the royal navy and implements of
war.
12,000,000
If we compute the value of the several heads
as they respect the United Slates, perhaps the
following may be nearly the truth, viz. Dolls.
300,000,000 acres land, at 5 dollars
on an average (includingall the
cities) —. — —
Cafli of the United States,
Merchant Ihips of the United States,
10,000,000
29,000,000
including coasters, — —
Stoijt on the lands, and neceflary
implements of husbandry, boats,
waggons and geers, —
Value of produce and manufac
tures exported and for home con
sumption, — —
Plate, jewels and furniture,
700,000 Haves may be valued
7,000,000
21,000,000
Beside which is the right of pre-emption to the
land in pofleflion of the Indians, and the veflels
and warlike llores belonging to the United States
and the several States.
Say the debt of the United States and the se
veral States, foreign and domestic, is 85,000,000,
then the proportion between the value of the
whole property and the debt will be about twenty
to one, and the ability of the people of the United
States to pay their debt, is ten times greater than
that of the people of Great-Britain.
4,000,000
2,000,000
6,0©0,000
800,000
4,000,000
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
FRIDAY, Jan. 14.
IN committee of the whole 011 the bill to de
termine the time when the electors of Presi
dent and Vice-Prefidejpt lhalj bechofen,and when
they lhall meet and give in their votes.
A motion by Mr. Smith, (S. C.) to flrike out a
clause in the firft fetfiion, which referred to va
cancies happening from special contingencies,
after a fliort discussion was disagreed to.
Mr. Benfon, who was of the committee which
reported the bill, then stated the reasons which
influenced the committee in the arrangement of
726
CONGRESS.
Mr. Bowiinot in the chair
tire time£ qf cliufingtlie eledors, and thei,
ingin their votes.
Mr. Sedgwick said he supposed, that the defir,,
of the provifioi) oil tliis fubjeift in ilie conlUu
tion. was to prevent, as far as pollible, tile p.no
tices of cortuption and intrigue in the buiineft
of election: To-effect this falurary object, he
thought it r.ecellary that the time of chiding <-lec-
tors should be fixed, and that as lliort a period as
pollible should be fuffered to elapse, between tlie
titne of chuiing, and the time when the eledois
should give in their votes ; the bill, said lie, pio
- eight weeks—he thought that too
period.
Mr. Benfon observed that the term of eio; ; - L
weeks was thought not more than fufficicnt to
accommodate the circiunftances of some i,f t' nc
States—a fliorter p_eriod might have suited others
—but the idea of uniformity, rendered it ncief
fary to fix 011 a particular period.
Mr. Goodhue objedted 10 alligning one parti
cular day for all the States, as, lie observed, ilie
modes of eleiftion in the several States a:e <1 lifer
ent : In some tlie electors are chosen immediate
ly by the people at large ; in others they are
chosen by the itate legillatures ; this will render
it extremely difficult to comply with the law, if
they are to be chosen on one and the fame day
throughout the Union.
Mr. Carroll said, that it appeared to him ne
cefiary in the firft place, to determine who (hall
cliufe the electors : For his part he was fully
convinced, that this power is exclusively vefuJ
in the people by the Conilitution.
Mr. Jackson observed, that the difficulties
mentioned by the gentleman from Maflacfnifetts,
would accrue from fi'-ing on a particular day in
the State of Georgia; there the electors are cho
sen by the legillature, which meets at a particu
lar season of the year : 1 his clatife will render
too feiiions neceflary,which would be exceedingly
inconvenient : He moved therefore lhat theclanle
which appoints a particular day when the elec
tors fliall be cholcn, should be flruck our, and
that the time when they {hall meet and give in
their voles should only be deilgnated : This mo
tion was seconded.
1,140,000
420,060
2,160,000
600,000
1,740,00°
030,000
75,000,000
10,000,000
8 5,Q00,000
Ivlr. Giles said that he conceived but one mode
of chufing electors was contemplated by the con
stitution ; the itate legislatures he thought ought
not to cbufe thein—they ought to be chol'en by
the people. He adverted to the Conffiiutinn—
the words are, " That each State {hall cliufe, !kc.''
This plainly implies that the legislatures are not
authorised to exercise that power themselves :
Congress has a power to fay when they fliall be
chosen—this imposes a necessity for one iriode,
and that the mode should he uniform, and be by
the people ; for the legislatures, from the diii'er
ent circumstances of the States must meet at tiif•
ferent periods : He wiflied this point to be. fettled
—He thought the people ought to clutfe the elec
tors.
1,500,000,000
10,000,000
Mr. Jackson contended that the power was left
discretionary with the state legislatures.
Mr. Goodhue said, this was plainly the cafe,
by the express words of the conftitu'iion.
Mr. Ames moved that the clause ihould be i
mended, so as to include the words of the conl'i
tution " in fucli manner as the legillatui e ilicve
of may direcft."
20,000,000
5,000,000
6j,000,000
Tliis was fecoiuled by Mr. Stone.
Mr. Livermore was also in favor of the nicoii.
5,000,000
75,000,000
Mr. Madison faid,a question arose here,wfacl»
was, whether the power of Congress extei-ds to
determining the manner of chufing, by virtue of
pofleffing the power of determining the time of
their being chosen :—he was however di'pofedto
thinkthat the best idea was that fuggeft-'dby the
gentleman from Maflachufetts.
Mr. Sedgwick said, he was in favor of the mo
tion of the gentleman from Georgia—and in this
view of the fubie<ft—he wasoppofed to theopini
-011 of the gentleman from Virginia '.Mr. Ones/
as interfering with the legiflativc rights of the
several slates.
1,680,000,000
Mr. Tucker was oppofeti to the idea of a pa'-
ticular interference of the general Government,
in refpec r t to the time, and mode of chufing the
electors—He wished therefore that the motion
for striking out the words, should obrain ; if that
was done hcfliould move a clanfeto thispurpoit,
that the electors shall be constitutionally chosen.
Mr. Lawrance was in favor of leaving the time
of chufing to the several tlate legislatures— a
general regulation could not be agreed upon,
which would not involve the difficulty that gen
tleinan appeared felicitous to guard against,
that was the opportunity which would neceflau
ly be given for caballing—in consequence of'the
great extent of some states, and the confined li
mits of others—it appears therefore fai-d he, a
folutely neceflary to leave the time of ehufi"£\ 0
the ilate legislatures, and this will put it in their
power to reduce the interval between chafing w
voting, in such manner as circumltances may IC
tare, to prevent the inconveniences contem
plated.
Mr. Giles said, he believed he had been "iiiun
derftood, he did not mean to invade the rig, ll *
of the state legislatures. —so far from that, he» aaverse from every measure which liail a teirlen- j
cy to chat point—he then enlarged on the ideas
lie before fuggelted —he had no objection to die
mode of ex predion proposed by the gentleman
from Maflachufetts [Mr. Ames,] but lti.ll contend
eel that uniformity pointed out the neceimy ot
one clay's being fixed on—this he (uppofed might
be done in perfect conliftency with the claule in
the conltituiion. .
Mr. Seney was in favor of striking out the
words.
Mr. Sherman (hewed froin the Conlututionthat
Con<Tiefs polfefs the power of appointing the
time s os chufingtlie electors, and the tune when
they fiiould meet lo give in their votes : He was
in favor of Congress' exercising this power m or
der to guard ag'ainft all intrigue, and this ne
conceived was agreeable to the people, for m none
of the conventions was an amendment of this ar
ticle ever moved for. _
Mr. Viningwas against (trikingout the words, |
he thought that uniformity was an eflential ob
ieift to a free and independent election—with
that uniformity, the equal rights of the citizens
is inseparably connected—l he manner of chu
fino-may be left with the legislatures; but the
time of chufing and voting said he, fliould be de
termined by Congress.
Mr. Lawrance ihewed that the operation of
this principle of uniformity, would be to pro
duce the very evil apprehended. should the
time come, when the states are reduced to a size
more proportionate to each other, this uniformi
ty may be introduced.
Mr. Williamfon was in favor of striking out
the words as proposed Mr. Jackson.
The vote being taken, the words were (truck
out : so that the time of chufing eletftors is left
by the bill with the state legislatures.
The next clause refpedts the time when the
votes (hall be counted
Some of the members supposed that the votes
iliould be counted by the old Congress.
Mr. Benfon said if the votes Ihould be counted
by the new Congress, they may be counted by
men chosen with a special reference to influence
finally in the election—no alteration was made
in this cla-rnfe»
The discussion of the bill being finifhetl, the
committee rose and reported the fame, with the
amendments, agreed to —which being taken into
confiderarion, they were adopted by the houlc,
and laid on the table. Adjourned.
MONDAY, Jan. 31. -
Mr. Conteefrom Marylaud took his feat this day.
An engrofied bill declaring the consent of Congress to a certain
ast of the state of Maryland, was read the third time and passed
to continue in force one year.
Mr. Lawrance from the committee appointed for thatpurpofe,
reported a bill making appropriations tor the year 1791.
Mr. Floyd, from the joint committee on enrolled bills, reported
that they had examined the bill, entitled an ast admitting the line
of Kentucky into the federal union, and found the fame to be duly
enrolled ; the fpeakerthen figncd the bill.
Mr. Sturges preferited the pitition of Colonel Thomas Hobby?
of the Hate of Connecticut. Referred to the Secretary of the
Treafurv.
A motion being made to go into a committee of the whole on
the bank bill as the order of the day—the fame was obje&ed to—
it was contended that the militia bill was of moie immediate im
portance, when the neceflity of making fpcedy provision tor the
relitf and protection of the Frontiers was taken into view.—ln an
iwer it was said that a committee was nearly ready to report on
this fubjeft, and that more speedy and effe&ual relief to the inhabi
tants of the Frotiers was contemplated} than could pofllbly be de
rived from the bill.
The obje&ions to the motion were overruled, by the question's
being determined in its favor, thirty-five Members rising in the
affirmative.—The house accordingly in committee of the whole
took the Bank Bill into consideration.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair
The bill was read in paragraphs; and no amendments being ol
fered, the Chairman reported it to the house, who voted that
lhould be read the third time to-morrow.
Mr. Boudinot moved the following Resolution : That during
the residue of the present fcflion, no debate should be admitted oij
the qutftion for taking up the order ot the day. Latd on tlie table
n committee of the whole on the Pott-Office Bill,
The committee difcufied the firftand second fe£lions ; and then
rose and reported progress. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, Feb. i
The Appropriation Bill for the year 1791, was read the second
time, and ordered to be engrofied for a third reading to-morrow.
The Bank Bill was read the third time : A motion by Mr.
Smith, [S. C.] tor a re-commitment, occasioned a debate, which
continued till near 3 o'clock ; and was finally determined in ihe
negative. The Ayes and Noes being as follow.
AYES.
Mcffrs. Alhe, Baldwin, Bloodworth, Bourne, Brown, Burke,
Carroll, Coirtee. Gale, Grout, Giles, Jackson, Lee, Maditon,
Matthews, Moore, Parker, Smith (M.) Smith (S. C.) Stone, Tucker,
White, Williamfon. —23.
McflYs. Ames, Benfon, Boudinot, Cadwallader, Clymer, Fitz
fimons. Floyd, Foster, Gerry, Gilman, Goodhue, Hartley, Hathorne,
Heifler, Huntington, La wrance, Leonard, Livermore, Muhlenberg,
Partridge, R nfellaer, Schureman, Scott, Seney, Sherman, Syl
velfer, Sinnickfon, Steele, Sturges, Thatcher, Trumbull, Vining,
Wadfworth, Wynkoop.—34.
Mr. Amis of the committee on Indian Affairs, informed the
Speaker, that a report was readv to be laid before the houfc—
011 which the doors of the gallery were ordered to be (hut.
Philadelphia, Feb. 2.
SOME people have thought it a great affair to
prove, that the Stares are free and independent.
The word is not worth contending about
—but those who use it, certainly mean to secure
the date governments from the controlling pow
er of Congress : The Rate legislatures are to ac
NOES.
count for their use of power to tlie people from
whom they derive it, and not to Congress.- —
If Congref:s should meddle with them, they would
make a fad outcry of invaded rights, of infiilted
sovereignty, &c. and why should they not ? in
aftnuch as they could (ay to Congress, you med-
dle with what is none of your buiinefs
Brother Antifed. take the thing by the other
handle : Is n<t Congress a sovereign legislature,
whose power is derived from the people ' It
ihe several afleinhlies should meddle with Con
gress, what would you fay ?—O ! that is quite
another affair, you answer : Then I find your
argument will not work both ways.
1 ins government was framed to bind the parts
of the Union lightly together : In order to have
unity of counsels, ihe Coiiftii ution veiled certain
powers in Congress : But several of the States
are lUrring, giving counsel, and directing the af
fairs of the nation : If all should be liflened to,
the federal edifice w on Id go on like another Babel.
With the powers given in the Constitution, the
oppofers thought one Congress dangerous. In
this regard, tilings turn out worse than they ap
prehended—for half a dozen Congresses have al
ready begun to adt: There is the Congress in N.
Carolina, and the Congress in Virginia, and the
Congress in I'ennfylvania—and they will all be
doing. A plain man, that cannot fee far into
things, is terrified by the number of Congrefles,
and because he is told their powerlias no bounds.
When Virginia or Pennsylvania aists Congress, a
man, who is counted vastly tunning, remarked,
tliar there is no check upon them—for, said he,
they have no power to do any thing which will
not hold out to do everything.
We must not let Congress swallow up the state
governments, fays an honest antifederalift, my
neighbor, becaule, fays he, Congress cannot go
vern us well : They will .not know what ipecial
laws we want to have made : At least as well,
(aid 1 ill repiy, as one State can govern all. Vir
ginia has members in Congress—it is therefore
more proper for Congress to govern Virginia,
than for Virginia, or any other State, to govern
the Union. On this a bye-ftander demanded
fneeringly, Which has molj: reason to be l'atisfied,
the state assemblies, with the fullnefs and clear
ness of the information upon which they have
decided on the measures of the Uuion, or we,
the citizens of other Staves, with the modesty,
pi udence,and national spirit of their resolutions ?
My antifederal neighbor and 1 had nothing to
i'ay to this : 1 do not know which fide of the
queltion he meant to take up ; but he proceeded
to fay—
Better times certainly are coming—when the
state aflemblies give themselves the trouble to ac r t
beyond the bounds of their jurifdi&ions, and in
deed of their territory, fui ely the passions will
have no part to play in their doings. When one
body contents to do another's business, we may
expert more impartiality on one fide than grati
tude on the other :—Ah perverse human nature !
Neither Congress, nor the people of the other
States, will ever thank Virginia or Pennsylvania
for all the trouble they have given themselves :
Let the reflection on their virtuous motives of
atftion,make up what is wanting in the reward.
Indeed, if the people ftiould chufe any of them
to Congress, ihey had better let that reflection
alone, becanie they would be rewarded without it.
The opinion ofthe State, exprefled'by the mem
bers, is nothing in the judgment of some people
but when exprefled by the aflembly is an oracle.
One state came very loath into the Union, because
the amendments were not made the condition of
their acceding to the Constitution : Congress af
terwards agreed to sundry amendments, andpro
pofed them to the States. The State alluded to
rejected one of its own precious articles.—What
regard is due to the opinion of an aflembly, if
it should mistake the opinion of the people, or
change its own ?
We have one government over thirteen : What
fort of an administration would it be, if every
one of the thirteen (hould insist upon governing
a thirteenth part, and be allowed to do it ? Tho
these are not lcripture times, yet, if that should
happen, we may live to fee the tower of Babel
finifhed.
■ People are informed, that it is proper to tell
Congress the mind of the State upon the measures
before them—and that the aflembly is the tongue
of the State—and so, they lay, it must be fuffered
to run : That unruly member ought to be kept
under prudent restraint. The state has its mem
bers in Congress : If the aflembly is to speak for
the state, what becomes of the duty ofthofe mem
bers ?—They were chosen to speak for the peo
ple : Shall they be silent—or, shall they call
themselves the tongue of the State, and speak too.
Beiides all this, the people may remouftrate
to Congress, and use their own tongues. What
abundant means of speech to the national go
vernment ! This fupei fluity of tongue might be
so used, as to overpower the common stock of
ears and brains, especially if the adembly should
recommend one thing, the membeis of a State
another, and the people themselves, by petition
and remonstrance, a third.
727
Exlraft of j iell;r from a gmthman in the country
to his jritnd in Philadelphia.
" I am pleased with the spirit of the debate on
the part of Mr. Bingham's motion—" that it is
inexpedient for this legiilature, at prefent,to en
ter into any difcullion relpediing the laying and
collecting excises by the government of the
United States"—contained in the paper you lait
sent me.
" I have wondered, nay have been vexed at the
imprudence of i'ome Pennfylvanians. Some pe
tition lor altering the funding bill—Pome sub
scribe for the exemption of certain very impor
tant members of society from the militia bill (I
mean minors and apprentices) btsaufe, if they
were all excufed,the muller-mafter would be put
to difficulty to find his men. Others spout and
bawl againfl excise. And if some people were
indulged in their wishes and attempts, we might
soon expedt a resolution moved for—" that Con
gress might go home, as the Pennfylvanians were
(in their own opinion) competent to do their bu
linefs for them." Not a few, with indignation,
behold their presumption.
" But it is believed that the Federal Ship will
truly find her own course : That fbe has the head
of the Branch at helm, the world acknowledges ;
That she is in the main well-manned, all the pas
sengers teftify : That she fails well, two years
experience has proved : That her voyages have
been profitable, appears from the credit of her
bills.
" The expectations ef the owners are by no
means allayed from some little appearance of a
mutiny on board one of her' Tenders—for they
fay, that the materials of thefhip are good—that
fhc was built by the firft of the profelfion—that
her fides in particular are ltrong—that the crew
are in good spirits, and well paid—and that they
are confident, the Ship will take more than one
broad-iide, before fire will quit seas, in .which she
has an indubitable commission to navigate."
e'oston duck manufactory.
Quantities of this Duck have already been fold
at Philadelphia and Baltimore—where it is in
high estimation—which inuft be the cafe, when
its principles are confidered—lt is made from
Klax, the raw material of our own foil—-which
has not fuffered from that fermentation which
mult arise from all vegetable substances confined
in the hold of a ship, whereby the fibre is greatly
weakened. Ir. the Boston Manufa<ftory the whole
of the clean flax is worked up—which is separa
ted in foi'eign parts, into eight different forts,
the fin ell; of which they never permit to be work
ed into their fail-cloth, but reserve for tlie finer
linen manufactories. Another peculiar excel
lenceof'tlie Boston Duck, is, that it i9notful>jeCt
to mildew, as all foreign Duck is—this is owing
to the difference of the fizingsmade use of in the
several manufactories—ln the Boston Manufao
:ory, it is made from animal substances—in Eu
rope from vegetable.
Lad Saturday (he Senate of the legislature of this Common-"
wealth non-concuired the Resolutions sent on the 22d inft. from
the House of Representatives ; which resolutions were intended to
express the d'fappiobation of the Legiflatureof Pennsylvania, with
refpeft to the Excise Bill, now before Congress ; and were palled
in the form of inftru&ions to the Senators from Pennsylvania in
Congress, by a very considerable majoiity.
Hon. Thomas Johnson and Daniel Carrou, Efq'rs, of
Maryland, and Dr. Stewart, of Alexandria, in Virginia,
are the Commiflioners appointed by tile President of the United
States, for running the lines of Experiment defining the territory
on the Potowmac to be located as the permaaent feat of the go
vernment of the United States.
Died the 16th injiant, at Bojlon, much lamented, Mr. Samuel Gil
ma n, Merchant, iate partner in the house oj Blodget and Gilman of
that town, and oj the house oj Blodget and Co. in London.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 17f. 17/3. pr. £
3 pr. Cents Sfg qJ.
Defered 6 pr. Cents 9f
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 15/6 15/9
Indents 8/g gf
N. and S. Carolina, debts, 11f. 11/6.
The seat of the late governor
LIVINGSTON,
situate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, on the public road to
Morris Town. The contains between 90 and 100 acres of
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about 19 acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
the farm a very large colle&ion of various kinds of the choicest
fruit trees, &c. in full bearing; the house is large, convenient,
well built and in very good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars.
New-York, Jan. 1791
Pcnnfylvania Hospital, 31 Jan. 1791.
Wanted a Ground Rent, of
15 or 20 J. pr. annum, well secured. Enquire of
Josiah Hewes,
Lawrance Seckel,
Owen Jones,jup'r.
By Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22, in Front-Street,
The American Museum,
For JANUARY, 1791-
[Contents in our next.]
86J pr. cent.
45 do
-45 do
78! do.
45 d °-
57 i do -
TO BE SOLE),
This day is puilifhed,FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO,
The following originally appeared in the Albany RegiAer—-hit a< it
has been cortefted by fever a! attentions, and relates to a fubjeft of
general importance, you are rcquejled to re-pubhfh it. /.
T)£RHAPS no State in rhe Union kas clone such ampl- juflicc
A to the brave men (to whom we are indebted for the blcffings
of liberty and independence) a* this : One million and a half aer<.s
of land, raoft agreeably and advantageoudy fr.uated, is aevotcd as
a gratuity to the officers and foldicrs of the line of this State.
As I have lately explored the principal part of this tra&, the
intention of this letter is to give you the general outlines of its
fituaiion ; and then a more circumilantial detail for the particular
information of our eastern triendj, who are iwarrning annually
to more southern and distant regions, when they now a glo
rious field opened in their native latitude, and within a conveni
ent diflance of their friends.
This tract is bounded wc ft by the east ftiore of tlit-Senecca lake
and the Maflachufetts lauds in the county of Ontario ; nort
by part of iAc Ontario, near Fort Ouvc f ;o, f -u*' y a ricl-c o
mountains fay n r * on the north of the P'*nn'yivania line ; c:id e^l
by the Tuf o'-.to Creek (which fa !- n r.iv ir.to th.- snicidle o
the Oneida Lake) and thai part o! M \vh;eh has beci
set ling by the New-England people very rapidly since peace.
This pleasant country is divided into twenty-five townfiv.ps o
6d,0c0 acres each, which are again fubdivrded into 100 Conveni
rnt farms, of 600 acres, making in the whole 2,500 farms, whicf
may b< now obtained on easy terms at the low price of 1/3 law
ful money an acre.
What a glorious opening for emigrants and population !
Having given you the outlines, I shall descend to particulars.
Our party, confiding of fix, arrived at Foit Schuyler, formerly
Fort Stanwix, 105 miles weft of Albany, the lft of September
Here we divided into two parties (havin- previously agreed t<
rendezvous at the Old Ford, north of the Cayuga lake) one part]
by land, the other by water : I joined the water party, and com
menced our expedition by having our bateaux carried across
plain of one mile from Fort Schuyler into Wood Creek, and so
the firft time 1 failed on a river in America running Weft. W<
found Wood Creek so lhallow, for fix or seven miles, as not 11
admit of batteaux navigation, withput the afiiftance of sluices
which are made at convenient distances. From thence to the ol(
Block-House, at the East end of the Oneida Lake, about elevei
miles more, the creek is bolder and convenient navigation, excep
some obftruftions by the falling of trees in the late war, whic!
are not vet entirely removed. We travei fed the whole length o
the Oneida, thirty miles, keeping the south Ihore aboard : thi
batteaux men commonly keep the north shore, but we preferret
the south for the benefit of viewing the army lands, beginning ai
the Tufcoraro already mentioned. The Oneida lake and creek,
emptying into it, are well stored with all kinds of frefh watei
fifh, particularly salmon and bass—eels, in the Tufcoraro, are in
credibly large and fine. The next day we reached Fort Brewe
ton, at the weft end of the Oneida ; near the fort we entered th<
Onondago river, continuing a serpentine course weft about twentj
miles (aided by a brisk cuirent, having the army lands 011 our left,
and vacant lands on our right) till we reached the Three Rivers;
at this confluence we left the Onondago, which took its courk
N.W. emptying into Lake Ontario at Fort Ofwego, about twenty,
five miles distant; we then ascended the Cayuga dream, Hemming
against an easy current, and a few gentle rapids.
We palled through the Cross Lake, and on ourTeft by tbe
mouths of the Salt Lake, the Owafco and another small lake, hav
ing the rich army lands on both fides of us. The day following
we reached the Old Ford, where we found our land party, who
agreed to proceed on to the south end of the Cavuga by land,
■while we continued our course the whole lengtn of this charming
lake by water; which we found nearly 40 miles in length, run
ning about S. E. and from 2to 4 wide. The firft 16 miles on
each fide lay the Cavuga land, or a tract reserved to them, which
is the place of residence of that nation; all the reft, on both fides,
is a fine body of armv lands, the banks are rather high, but the
country in general very level except in the south, where it swells
into hills and mountains. The land in many places where we
flopped appeared of a lich dark loom, the lands along the ft,reams
are generally low and a rich foil, and some sunken lands. On the
lakes the shores are rather higher, and generally what is called
Upland, but equal if not fupcrior to the other. Along the ftrearns
the timber runs mostly 011 button wood, breach aud maple; the
upland is generally maple, oak, beach and hickory; some ot the
button wood in particular are of an incredible magnitude. The
water in the Cayuga is clear, but lhallow ; and nothing coulcl ex
ceed the beauty of the country laying in a slate of wild nature, ex
cept here and there a new feulement, and'feveral old Indian fieids
and some orchards. At the south end of the Cayuga, we exchanged
our batteaux for the horses of our land party, having agreed to
fix our next rendezvous at tne town of Geneva, at the north end
of the Seneca Lake. We traversed the country in aS. W. course,
about 15 miles to the south extremity ot the Seneca Lake, where
we entered Catherine's-Town, formerly an Indian feulement, and
all well cleared. Peach trees flourifh here—we found them fcat-l
tered in mod of the Indian settlements.
Not far from this place, a ridge of the Allegany mountains
flretch themselves along* nearly in a N. E. course, at the foot of
which, the lands are generally exceedingly luxuriant. About 9
miles from Catherine's-Town there is a branch of the Sulquehan
tia, called Tyoga river,, to which there is a communication, by an
excellent level road, between a gap of the mountains.
The Tyoga branch is navigable for bateaux, down the Sufque- f
hannah quite into the Che fa peak. From Catherine's I own we
dire£led our rout North* travelling along the plealant banks on
the East fide of th? Seneca lake ; which runs nearly parallel with
the Cayoga (from 8 to 10 miles diftantj and about 36 miles long.
Nothing in America, and I pre fume in no other-country,- can ex
ceed the beauty and pleasantness of this happy combination : The
country between thi<?fe lakes is the most envjable that can be con
ceived ; there are high hiljs to be fcen, but the country is
agreeably diverfifjed, swelling into gentle nfings and fallings.
We found thebeftof timber and lofty trees, and not much under
wood : The uplands are generally exceeding good, but we found
no large streams, but many small runs of water, owing to the con
tiguity of the two lakes. About half way down the lake, we
came to an old Indian fcttlement, called Appletown, where we
saw the remains of many Indian fields and old orchard l ;,along the
LakeVdeflroyed by Gen. Sullivan in 1779 ; we then eroded a
ferry at the outlet of the Seneca, about 11 mues South Weft of the
Cayuga, and then entered the town of Geneva, formerly known
jjy the name of.Canadcfago, which from its convenient Giiialioti,
is already become a configurable village ; and about 16 miles
South of this .plaqe, and on the Weft fide or t'ne fame Lake, is alio
a considerable fcttlement of an apparent religious sett-os people,
the followers of Jemima Wilkinfpn ; and manv oilier fc?.ttering
fettlcments, as well as between the Cayuga and Seneca Lakes, and
along the J&a.ft. ftiore of the former ; besides which, from the most
authentic information, there is already a comfortable barrier
against the Indians, of upwards of 3000 New-En gland people-, in
Ontario county, on the weft ol this tracl.
The waters of the Seneca are deep, and as clear and pureas-fpring
water with a clear bottom. One remarkable circumflance de
serves notice, which is, that the Seneca Lake never freezes over,
though the Cayuga does ; may be partly owing to its greater
depth, and perhaps its being' Applied altogether with spring wa-
The decisive enterprise of the Genefee company, has furnifticd
the whole ofthis tra& with a good waggon road, running through
wt y !'-a-I of it, w:»> S™ a 'j" a ft/,e U oV :V.'W-Vork is
hawk river to Geneva ; betides «i , " raids which will
also laying ofit and opening two other w >
„v, rand .he D. (aware, and to „ n , hc Hudson's r.ver;
country in thc "ic nity ot muiwr, „ , sb ,|, IS
fn,n the Army Lands to th: ™.d, t^ing'from
rout, will not exeeed 150 milts • - Dela-
Ca.t-Kill landing on the Hudson's "Ver head ng the laui De
ware liver, and croiTmg the Sulquehannah at the Olchwt,
pass through .he middle of thole lauds to the Ca>uga-F- y
Old-Ford,« the Noriti end ol Cayuga Lake Th, W road »
nearly fioiOufi, w.U not exceed 120 nules .0 the aforelaid
Mi>cl)has been r-id about the Ohio countr), and ■"
-doubtlrf, w nil much jufticc but when We consider the im
nu nl- dillancrfrnm theEaftem Hates to thc Oh>o .nd f om thence
to the fca, we lhall find the convenience and pratticability of »a
!er "mmuniction both by the way o. Ofwego to Montreal and
bv Fo.t-Schuyle. to Albany, as well a , by the Sufquehanna nto
Chefapeak, vailly in favor ol the country I have been c.eicnb g,
cfpeciaJiy as the whole t.aft is inttifperfed b» narrow and.long
likes, as'conv. nicntly disposed as so many canals : From MuO. . -
pum on the Ohio (the present fettle,nent of the New-England
people l to the fca ,t is at least 1900 m.les; whereas, from the be
ginning of this tract to Albany .lis only 140 m.les, '"<*£'"B 17
miles land carnagc-i mile at Fort-Rchuyler, and 16 from Sch -
n.aadv to Albany. In addition to,which every farm is capable
of being converted into a small Jama, ca plantation by mak.ng
the most of their maple trees ; belides wh.ch, from the Ononda
go and Cavuga Salt Springs, a great necessary in life is here ob
tained in such quantities, that it is judged will be fufficient for the
Welter., part of the United States : The fait is of a super.or qua
lity, and has hitherto been made in great quantities, from the
faring waters only ; but recently the bait Rock has been disco
vered near the furface of the earth, on the bank of the Onondago
Lake, from which it can be taken, and by an easy water transpor
tation, conveyed almost in every direfl.on and distance; this w. I
and mud be considered as a particular advantage to this desirable
country : its inhabitants will not be fubjefted to the trouble and
expense in carrying that bulky and necessary article from the At
lantic Ihore. . . f
Theenfuingfeafon I propose to take a more particular v.ew of
the described lands, and procced Wcftward to Canadaque, the
county town of Ontario, and from thence to Buffalo Creek ; and
on my return lhall endeavor to give a particular description of the
latter extent of country, being the Geneffee purchafc, as of the
former.
From a late London Paper.
CASE IN CHA NC E RT.
The following decision recently took place in
the London Court of Chancery.
On the iSth of jurife, 1761, the honorable Mr.
Boyle left by will thefum of 54001. to be laid out
■in lands in Yorkshire, out of the rents of which
the sum of 901. Wss to be paid annually to the
college of William and Mary, in New-England,to
be applied for the purpose of propagating the
chriftiau religion among the Indians in the back
settlements in 1 North-America ; and likewise a
farther sum of 451. to be paid to the fame college,
for the fupport.of two n>i(fionaries to preach the
gospel. The city of London were left trustees,
and the management under the trust was, by the
will, committed to the care of the bifhopofLon
don, and the earl of Burlihgton, for the time be
ing. The latter being excinct, the whole manage
ment fell into the hands of the former.
The prefentbifhopinftuuietl this fait, in which
the city, and a great nnmber of other persons
•rii i • i ■
were parties, for thefingleand indeed novel pur
jofe of knowing, whether [as the teltator had
originally deviled the fevpjal sums Jor the up of
Britijb fubjtOs, and the Americans having ceafeil
to be in that situation, fuice. their independence,]
the annuity ought not to revert to this kingdom,
or to some other of his majesty's colonies, to be
applied to similar purposes. This being the firft
determination of that nature since the revolution,
his lordlhip decided it with that faperior dignity
of fentiinenc that always attends his decrees.
Two phrases are fufficient :—" All charitable
devises are to be held sacred—we cannot rake up
the allies of the dead, in search of latent intenti-
ons." The annuities and arrears must be paid,
and [upon two or three minutes further consider
ation] MelTrs. Anderfcm and Gibbs, the agents
for the college in Ne\tf-England, and likewise the
city of London must be paid the coils."—A de
termination lb liberal and f'o just, particularly
being the fjrlt, cannot fail of being distinguished.
EBF.X'EZER HAZARD and JONAS ADDOMSIvve entered
into partnership, and open.d an OFFICE, at No. 173, in
Ma'rkei-Strect, a few doors above Fourth-Street, wh'cre, under the
Firm ot
..Hazard and Addoms,
They purchase and Tell all kinds of
CERTIFICATES—PAPER MONEY, and BANK
N T .-B. Transfers made atthePublie Offices,and Business in ge
neral tranfaflcd on Commifßon. December., aq.
South-Carolina Lands for Sale,
ABOUT one hundred miles from Charleston, for any kind of
Goods. One third part of 63 Tvatts of Land, containing
acres, lying near the rivers of Savannah, Bigund Little Salt
Cohachees, and the fork of the Edifto : These Lands are a
dark, or a copper-coloured foil, in" an inhabited pirt of-the State.
Also 5 tra&sof Land in Ninety-Six di(ln£t, 4 inOrangpljujg dif
trifr, 6 in Camden, all containing 7,600 acres, all good land, with
dreams of water running through them. These Lands will be fold
so low, that a man may make his fortune in buying them, for the
ourpofe of felling them again, as emigrants arc daily arriving there
from Europe, to fettle.
Duplicate Plots and Grants maybe seen, and indifoutaWe titles
will be given by thefubferiber. FREDERICK KING.
Morrijloan, Jan. 17^91. (77 — 6wiw.)
728
stock.
THE Copartrtcrfltip of HF.WES and ANTHONY ha\. l: -.,
pired the 31ft uiumo, they requelt those, w 1,0 h aV c anvc-'
mands, to exhibit their accounts and receive their morn v ;
those who are indebted, arc delireri to make fpredy payment, l 0
either of the Subfcribcrs, at their Compting-Houfc, \ o '. si c '
nut-Street-Wharl. J O S I A H HEW ES,
Philadelphia, Jan. 15, 1791
N. B. They have yet on hand, and tor SALE, at their STOR?
abovementioned,
HYSON, Souchong, and Boliea TEAS,
Tnree cases Callia,
Pimento in bags,
Muscovado Sugar,
A few Cases old Batavia Arrack,
One cask o! Durham Mutiard.
New England Rum in hogthiads and barrels,
A quantity ot prime Boston Beet,
Spcrmaceti, right whale and tanners' Oil,
Btft pickled Mackrel,
6byß— 7by 9—B by 10—9 by 11—and 10 by 12 Window
Glass,
A quantity of excellent carrot Tobacco,
And an elegantCHANDt-LIER.
AMERICAN CLOTHS.
SUPERFINE and ELASTICS,
CONGRESS BROWN,
LONDON SMOKE,
LEAD, DRAB,
BLUE and OTHER fafliionable Colours,
Manufactured at Hartford, (State of Connecticut,) just rcceivcd,
and are now offered for Sale, at the
CHEAP STORE, No. 38,
North Third Street, t
At which Store are also opening a large and general affortmentof
EUROPEAN and INDIA GOODS
CLOTHS,
Linens,
Cambrics,
Painted, sprigged, tambour
ed, book, andjaconet Muslins,
Chintzes,
Cottons and Calicoes,
Silks,
Sheetings,
Table Cloths, of a superior
quality,
Muflinett,
Patent Silk Hose,
A Varietv of STUFFS
And many other Articles, 100 numerous tr. insert in an Advcr- <
tifement ; all of which are now felling by '''holcJlU and Retail, on
so low terms, as to make them an object to the purchaf-ts,
A'. R. A few Barrels of MACKAREL, and Nova-Srolia i
HERRINGS. Philadelphia, Jan. 12, 1791.
Forty Dollars Reward.
LOST bv the Subscriber, on the 12th day of January 1791. be
tween Penoilopon and Freehold, ip the county of Monmouth,
and State of New-Jersey, the following Certificates, ilfued byihe
f ltd State, to sundry Soldier , for the three-fourth parts of the de
preciation of their pay ; all of which are figncd by John Siemens
jun. Treasurer, and couuterfigncd by James Ewing, Auditor, viz.
No. Dated, Payable to Amount.
323 June 26, 1781, Powel Alston, £.60 8 0
399 January 27, do. Jacob Long, 3° *6 igj
503 June 29, do. Oliver Cromwell, 60 8 q
664 June 30, do. James Kinfey, ,57 12
740 July 2, do. \ George Long, 5 4 47
869 ( uly 4, do. Ananias Clark, 312 47
938 July 30, do. Samuel Dotey, 1 35 7
1060 March 20, 1782, J'phraim Patten, 31 13 0
1128 Augiift 8, do. James Cbulllon, 30 7 iOg
11 33 August 8, do. Moses Thompson, 150 5 9!'
123° January 27, 1783, Asa Gilderfleaves, 63 755
1237 April 9, do. Michael Lane, 61 16 tcj
841 July 4, 1781, James Clark, 417
Any person who may have lound the said Certificates, and will
return them to the fubfenber, living at Penollopon aforcfaicl,fl"; t !llre-
ceive the above reward ; and in proportion for any part of them
which may be returned.
Al! persons are hereby cautioncd against purchasing anv of tr.c
above Certificates, as payment is (topped at the public offices.
If any of them fliould be offered for sale, the person to vrnom thev
are offered is requested to flop the fame, and give notice ffiercol
to t'lcir humble servant. .KENNETH HANKINSON.
Monmouth Coupty, New -Jersey, Jan, 15, 1 791. _\
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,!
January 25, 179 1 - J
THE Public Creditors are reminded that, in orocr to the pio
per dispositions for paying the Iniercft in the fevcral SiJUS
it is necefTary that the amount to be paid in each Ihouid he p rC *
vioufly known at the Treasury. An.d'as the expiration of the nf
quarter is no( far distant, it is wifticd that thnfe who have not yt
done it, may be expeditious in malcih'g and fignihing their elec
tion, pursuant to the a£l making provision for the debt ort.e
United Slates.
INFORMATION WANTED.
%CT THE Subscriber requejh, if any gentle*** 1
can give him inj ormation of a pur chafe oj LandsMi
by a Mr. Daniel Richardet, in the year 1781 <"<
1782, in fame part of the United States, he willM) 1
kind as to inform his Brother, by d'treiling
him, at the Printer's office. S. RICHARDE'-
January, 1791.
Henry Kuhl,
At No. 143, Second-Street, near Race-Street,
BY advice of h<s iriends in New-York and Philadelphia;
opened an office for the purpo'fe of buying fclhng,o«"' c otT j
million, the different species of SlotA, and of liquidated and W d i u
dated paper lrj the market. - ,• .
He will obtain such Certificates as arc required by the
/tftfj-for-thofe -wlv» have unliquidated Securities ; and trans} v 0L
from .and to the Treasury and the Offices of the Commi" 10,,erS
Loans, on moderate terms. . [
Having for fcveral years pad been.employed in the 1 ip a
tlie United States, he is well acquainted with its °P eral,o ?V 3( j.
forms ; and flatters himfelftha't on that score he has a dect
vantage in tranfafting business here. Heis fully imprc -
the truth of the adage that " dispatch is the foul of
will always make the interefl of his employers an objec 0
fir ft importance.
Philadelphia, Dcccmher 29M, 1790.
JOSEPH ASTHOi; Y
Martinico Coffee.
(23w6W.)
ELEGANT Vest Patterns
adapted to ihe Tea Ton,
Silk, Cotton, and Worded
Hose,
Corduroys,
Vclvcrct'ts, and Royal Ribs,
Sattinetts,
Best Buck, Beaver, and White
Kidd Gloves,
Fine Mufliri Cravats,
Black Ruffcl,
Joan's Spinning.