PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS RY JOHN FENNO, No. 69, HIGH-STEEET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 84, of Vol. ll.] Wednesday. February i 6, 1791.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
ALTHOUGH I conceive it improper for indi
viduals to obtrude their ientiments on the
public, too frequently, with refpedt lo lubjeAs
that engage the attention, and require the deli
beration of the legislature of the Union ; yet if
ic appear from proceedings already had, that any
thing will be pretermitted, which merits legida
tive provision, it ought to be communicated. The
multiplicity and variety of buiinefs that is pre
sented to the minds of the members of the ho
norable body, unavoidably prevent an accurate
and precise view of every part : Hence I infer
the reason that induced Congress to adopt the
practice of refering certain fubje&s to those of
ficers, that fill the different executive departments
to report on : A practice proper enough, if con
fined within due bounds: The danger which may
result is, that lb implicit a reliance may be placed
on those reports, as to preclude a due investiga
tion of the fubje&s reported on—Few men pos
sessing industry enough to invelligate a fubjeifl
already considered to their hand. This I pre
sume, hath been the cafe, from certain proceed
ings of the house of representatives, in conse
quence of a late report, made by the Attorney-
General, relative to the Judiciary Syllem, the re
vilion of which, as there recommmended, hath
been postponed to a subsequent period. The
Attorney-General among other things, recom
mends it to the legislature as proper, " That the
Clerks and Marlhals should have emoluments
equal to a livelihood," considering with jultice
that the precarious profits of their relpeJtive of
fices cannot be adequate to their support : Upon
the ground of this recommendation, I suppose
the house of representatives have appointed a
committee " to prepare and bring in a bill mak
ing provision for the Clerks and Marshals."
An indifferent observer would be led to sup
pose, from this circumltance, that those were the
only officers known in the courts of the Union,
and that by some novel regulation, they had dis
pensed with a third officer, who hath been here
tofore deemed important and elfential in the
constitution of judicial tribunals—l mean the
Prosecutor of the pleas of the State, whom it would
be conjectured from his stile was a character that
filled an appointment of considerable trust and
confidence. Our observer would be not a little
surprised to be told, thataltho such an officer ex
i(ted,yethe was thought of such trifling account,
that he was left without any kind of provision,
except the uncertain allowance of so much as the
court might deem fufficient for casual services—
and that he was not even permitted to make his
own charge for such service.
I cannot avoid expressing my astonishment, that
it ffiould never have occurrcd to the Attorney-
General, or to the Members of Congress, that it
was the duty of the Diltric r t Attornies, as well as
of the Clerks and Marshals, to attend the refpec
tivc feilions of the Courts of Ihe Union—distant
perhaps from t heir relidence, without much prof
petft of profeffional employment, and with no
other object in view but a discharge of the duties
of their office, and generally no doubt to the
very great injury of their bufinels at home.
It is unneceflary to mention the duties incum
bent on that officer—they will occur upon reflec
tion to the understandings of gentlemen—who,
in revolving this fubjec'l in their minds, must be
itrongly itnprefled with an idea that talents and
profeffional knowledge are requisite for the due
discharge of the office—contrary to the usual,
I may fiy, aln.ioft tiniverfal praiiice of the honorable
body, they have expected that services will be ren
dered by the Attornies without proper compen
sation. I have lately been informed, that it
hath some time ago been required of them, by
certain officers in some of the executive depart
ments, to perforin certain fervicesth.it called for
considerable attention and trouble, and that they
were told their aflual expenditures should be re
imburfed. lam certainly no friend to salaries,
but I think government ought to preserve some
degree of confittencv.
There is one confederation, in my view, that
is conclusive as to the propriety of rendering the
diflrifi Attornies an adequate compensation : It is
well known that molt, if "<>t all the States, have
taken effectual fleps, cither by legislative aifts,
or the inculcation of a jealous diftrult, to exclude
aU jcderal officers from it ace appointments—in or
tier, as they fay, to preserve the stare govern
ments free from the influence of the federal go
vernment— Ihe consequence of which is, that
every person who accepts an appointment under
the federal government, " ipfo fadio" expatriates
himfelf, and lofeth all chance, while in office, of
any appointment in the particular State, how
ever important. Is it to be supposed then thai
persons, whole talents afford them prospects of
advancement kt home, will accept of the office of
dijlrit7 Attorney, eltimated at so low a rate as it is
ai present by Congress. On the contrary, will it
not be spumed at by men of abilities, insomuch
that none but inferior characters can be obtained
to difcliarge its duties : Would this, I ast, be an
eligible plight for pleas, that regard the interefl
and welfare of the Union, to be placed in. It is
obviously the interefl of the Union, that a due
attention be paid to the profecinion of smugglers,
the bane of its produiftive resources—and it is
equally certain, that a spirited and determined
prosecution of such offenders, will tend much to
the discouragement of their ma)-prac r tices—This
relts very much upon the diftrirt Attornies, who
are the principal agents in the commencement
and condudl of suits : Men inuft be rewarded for
doing their duty—the imperfections of humanity
require the spur of interefl::—" If you expeifl
work well done, you mult pay well."
N E W- Y O R K, Feb. n.
Extraß of a letter from London, November 30.
" It is with pleasure I inform you that the cre
dit and character of the American states is rapid
ly appreciating in this country ; one considera
ble proof of which is, the speedy appointment
of an ambassador, to reside in Philadelphia,whofe
arrival, it is said, will be fuceeded by a commer
cial treaty with Great Britain ; and which ifcon
ftituted npon the liberal basis of rpclpro«"»l ad
vantage, cannot ocherwife than highly bene
ficial to both countries. Many of your vorks of
literature are in growing eflimation 011 this fide
of the Atlantic ; and, as refinement advances we
have no small apprehensions of rivals in the fine
arts riling in the western woods. An American
production, entitled, " A law cafe between So
loman Dash and Frederick Flute,*" has been
lately delivered with great eclat in the British
theatre, owing to that fund of fatyrical humour
with which it abounds, and yet is of such a na
ture as to please without offending."
* See a volume of Miscellaneous pieces, by P. Freneau—page 216.
PROVIDENCE, February 3.
While we remark with pleasure, on the ad
vantages resulting to the public from the new
regulation, by the Pod Matter General, for con
veying the mails from the feat of the general
government, we cannot help regretting, that
the portmanteaus used in that business are so
finall, that Neiufpapers direßed to Printerj, are
frequently excluded, and thereby the editors of
the public papers at adiftance from the capital
prevented the pleasure of prefentingtheir read
ers with the latest proceedings of Congress.—
The more than usual number of public difpatcli
es which weekly go with the mail, point out the
necelfity of enlarging the portmanteaus, in or
der to leave as much room as formerly for news
papers.—lt is of the greatest importance to the
general government, that the people in all parts
of the union (liould have early and authentic ac
counts of the proceedings of Congress—and in
no ether manner can rhey receive such accounts
but by a free and general circulation of news
papers.—By newspapers thus being flopped, op
portunities are given to those so disposed to mis
represent luch proceedings—and sorry are we
to fay there are filch dispositions in every part
of the United States. Other substantial real'ons
could be given, were it deemed neceflary, tofhew
that the legislature of the union ought immedi
ately, to give special directions to the officers by
them appointed in the Poft-Office department to
attend punctually and faithfully to the forwarding
and delivery ok newspapers—especially those pub
lished at the feat of government.
BOSTON, February 2.
FOREIGN ARTICLES.
Mr. Burke, for his P ilippick on the French National Assem
bly, is denominated a: Paris, Guy Faux, and the fifth ot Nov em
ber. was burnt in effigy, al Angiaife.
1 he exiled Nobility nf France, ill various quarters, are still pro
je&ing coumcr-rcvoluiions.
749
CURT I U S
NOTE
[Whole No. i 88.]
M. de Calonnc, the Ex-Minister ot France, has lately left Ena
land for Turin.
The city of London has addrefied the Britilh King on the pa
cification with Spain. It approves highly of the Convention
,nd the Recorder [Mr. Rose] who read, and the Sheriff who pre
sented the Address, were Knighted.
The Britiih Parliament will again take up the Abolition of the
Slave Trade.
Mr. Pitt has a majority in the new Britith Parliament of two
o one.
John Boydcll, Esq. the celebrated printfeller, is ele&ed Lord
Mayor of London.
Ot Aflignats [or funded Paper Money] Nov. 4, last, there was
fold at Paris, 125,000,000 livres, at per cent, above par.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
AT THE THIRD SESSION',
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia, on Monday the sixth
of December, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
An ACT declaring the consent of Congress to a
certain adl of the State of Maryland.
BE it enabled by the Senate and House of Rprefentativet of the Uni~
tedStatei of America in Congrejs assembled, That the consent of
Congress be, and is hereby granted and declared to the operation
of an ast of the General Aifembly of Maryland, made and passed
at a feflion begun and held at the city of Annapolis, on the firlfc
Monday in November last, intituled, " An a£t to empower the
wardens of (he poit of Baltimore to levy and collefl; the duty there
in mentioned, " until the tenth day of January next, and from
thencc until the end ot the then next session of Congress, and no
longer.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Hovfe cjßeprefentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the United States,
and Prejident of the Senate.
Appro v ed, feb ru ar y ninth, 1791.
CEQRCk WASHINGTON, P?efident of the United States,
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, Jan. 31.
In cVinmittee of the "whole, on the bill for the eflablifh-
ment of Pojl-Offices and Pofi-Roads.
Mr. Boudinot in the Chair.
MR. STEELE moved to expunge the second
fec r tion, for the purpose of introducing an
other as an amendment; in substance, that the
molt diretft route from W'iicaflTet in the diftrictof
Maine, to Savannah in the state of Georgia be
established as the post road ; and that the Presi
dent of the United States be empowered to elta
bliflicrofs post roads, where they shall appear to
him necessary.
He observed that upon the present eftabli/hmenc
of the principal post road, a considerable and po
pulous part of North-Carolina derived 110 advan
tage from the establishment, and the sea coast ex
clusively enjoyed the benefit of a regular and
speedy conveyance for their correspondencies,
and thus the agricultural interest was facrificed
to the commercial.
In the last felfion, it was true, he had been of
opinion that a discretionary power, which by his
amendment was propofedtobe left, with thePre
fident, should not be given to him ; not that he
thought it unconstitutional, but because he then
conceived the representatives, from their collect
ed local information, better able to determine in.
what parts of the coiintry polls would be requir
ed : But the Senate did not concur with the house
in exercising that power, and a change ofcircum
ftances required a change of nieafures ; —the Pre
sident, by a tour to the southward, hefaid, could
colled: the neceflary information whereon to
found proper regulations in that quarter.
Mr. Williamfon opposed the amendment offer
ed by his colleague. The obje<fl of an eftabli/h
----ed post was not to afford the nioft speedy convey
ance, by the ftraightell line between two distant
places : but to accommodate on the route as ma
iny persons desirous of writing as possible. If the
i\tis opost was obliged to travel by the ftraighteft road,
the lea ports would be cut off from the advantage
of a public mail—and it is a fa<ft, that the mer
cantile interest principally supports the establish
ment. The post to be as beneficial as possible to
the community, and as profitable to government
Ihould pass through as many towns as practicable
—by journeying through the interior parts of
North-Carolina, these ends would not be answer
ed as letter writers there,will not be found to be
numerous. Upon the present establishment he
said, the profits of the poft-office in the state of
North-Carolina, were not more than one fourth
of the expence ; but if the proposed amendment
\+as adopted, he wa<» of opinion they would not
pay more than a tenth part.
Kir. Bloodworth was in favor of the motion.
Mr. Steele said he was fatisfied with the route
followed by the poll as far as Petersburg ; but he
objected to its returning thence to the eaitward,
as if to avoid the state of North-Carolina, taking
a circular, hazardous and unprofitable route.
The merchants, he said, had water conveyance
at hand from Peterlburg to Georgia, and general
ly preferred it, as more expeditious than the
post. If the excise bill pafled.he conceived there
would be an additional necessity for a communi
cation with the interior country by means of a
regular post, if any revenue was to be colleded
from distilleries dispersed throughout the state
of North-Carolina. Under the present regulati
ons the inhabitants of the interior and populous
part of that state received no regular information
of the proceedings at the feat of general govern
ment, and other ufeful intelligence, but from the
direA communications of their delegates in Con
gress. In support of his opinion he also menti
oned the desire expressed by the legislature of his
state that a change of route fliould take place.
He was sorry to find his honorable colleague op
posed to his amendment; but for his own part
even if he was to torture his invention, he could
not, he thought, contrive a more absurd and im
proper road than that now followed by the post.
He allured the house he was no ways influenced
by private interest in offering the amendment he
had proposed.
Mr. Parker objedled to the amendment. If a
change of route took place, those now benefited
by the poll, he conceived would be offended, and
those in whose favor the amendment was propo
sed, not materially benefited by, or greatly plea
sed with the alteration. It would be injuring all
the lea port towns of North-Carolina and Virgi
nia, to give an advantage to the interior parts of
the former, of which in their present circuniftan
ces they would make but little ufc. Ifilic amend
ment took place a very small portion of Mary
land would feel the benefit ot the eftabli(hment.
He was willing that channels of information
from the feat of the general government fnould
be opened for the advantage of the interior parts
of North-Carolina ; but not so as to injure the
intereftsof other slates.
Mr. Sherman mentioned that the disagreement
of the two houses in this paragraph had occasi
oned the lofingof the bill last session. The house
of Representatives wished to fpecify the several
routes, and the Senate thought the President of
the United States and Post-Master-General had a
constitutional right to exercise that power, and
that Congress had no authority to interfere.
The present post roads, he said, were establish
ed from long experience.
Heftill thought the house was able to enter in
to the detail of the business. He saw one great
obje<slion to leavingit with the President : It was
scarcely possible to give universal fatisfa(flion,and
constant applications would consume much of his
time
Mr. Tucker adverted to the pains which the
Jioufe had taken during last feflion, to fpecify in
the bill the different routes in which it appeared
neceflary for the pwft to travel; but unfortunate
ly, he said, their labours had been rendered use
less by the non-concurrence of the Senate. How
ever, he wiflied afimilar clause again introduced
in the bill, hoping that the Senate would now be
differently disposed.
He said that the ideas of particular States, ref
petfting alterations in the post road, ought not to
bedifregarded. He was firmly of opinion, that it
should pals through the molt populous parts
thothe inhabitants ofthofe parts had not at pre
fentmany correspondencies, yet if aregular con
veyance was offered them, they would in a short
time acquire the habit of writing ; and though
at firft the profits to government might by tne
change proposed in the post-road be diminished
yet by degrees they would encreafe, and iti the
end become greater than before the alteration.
He could with therefore, he laid, that the clause
which had been before agreed to, and was now
Jest out, might be inserted in the bill ; but as he
had not the bill at hand, he would move a clause
refpetfiing the state of S. Carolina, and such pro
portions as fhouldbe moved by other gentlemen,
on similar principles, he would give his assent to.
He moved that the general rout should be from
"Wifcaffet to Augusta, the feat of government in
Georgia—from thence to Savannah—and by cross
pods to the feat of government in S. Carolina,
and so in each State, in cases where the feat of
government is jut of the direct road.
Mr. Williamson remarked, that no one knew
which was the direct road ; if the gentleman
who had proptfed the amendment would point
out its course, liembers would then be enabled
to judge of the propriety of it, but not before.
With refped to the excise, and the neceflity
of interior polls on that account, he observed,
that tho some <onfiderable revenue might be ex
pected from that source, yet in his opinion, the
treasury of the Union would Itill receive more
augmentation from the duties collected on im
ported fpirits,in the ports of entry, throngh which
for that reason, he conceived, the poll ought still
to pass. If it took its direction through the in
terior parts of North-Carolina, four of those ports
out of five would be out of the poll-road, and the
filth at a distance of forty miles further than be
fore. Besides the duties on spirits, those on other
goods amounted to a sum by no means trifling,
and for the collection of which a diretft and regu
lar communication between them and the feat
of general government was requisite. He men'
tioned the neceflity of giving the merchant re
gular opportunities to write for insurance, as an
additional argument against the amendment.
Mr. Jackson said that if any revenue was to be
derived from the poft-office, it would be from the
commercial and not the agricultural parts of the
states. He was against the amendment. He
wiftied matters could be so arranged as to give
Augusta, in Georgia, the advantage of the pub
lic mail, by eftabli/hing a post-road to that place,
but thought the poll Should firft go to Savannah,
and from thence to Augusta.
Mr. Tucker's motion was disagreed to
Mr. Bloodwotth spoke in favor of Mr. Steele's
amendment. He said he had no idea of flopping
the communications with the sea-ports, he sup
posed that provision would be made for their ac
commodation, and in this view he conceived
there was no impropriety in opening the com
munication in the molt diredt manner with the
interior country. He urged theneceflity of giv
ing the people every advantage to acquire in
formation.
Mr. Sherman wiftied a limitation to the power
of establishing cross roads—that such only Ihould
be established, as could defray their-own ex
pences.
Mr. Bourne was against the amendment as it
stood ; it would tend to render a number of good
post roads almost tilelefs : He hoped as an amend
ment to the proposition before the house, that a
fen tenre be added m as ro udKe It read cnus:
" That the mod direct roads from Wifcaffet in
the diftridt of Maine, to Savannah in Georo-ia,
and thofc ufcd as poli roads, be eftablilhed as
such."
Mr. Hartley feared the lioufe would not find
time this session to enter into the minutis of the
establishment, and wiflied a temporary discre
tionary power given in the business to the Presi
dent of the United States, and the Post-Master-
General, afterMiaving fixed that the main road
should remain as heretofore eftablilhed. How
ever he proposed that the power be not granted
without a limitation : He thought no part of the
revenue of the United Stales, other than that
derived from the poft-office, should by them be
touched for the establishment of posts. He wish
ed also this power granted for a limited time.
Mr. Baldwin moved chat the pod road fliould
be extended from Savannah to Augulta, in the
State of Georgia. He observed that it was a du
ty which the government owed to the parts of
which it was composed, to provide at lead some
channel of communication to them ; that hither
to the poll had only crofled the river from Caro
lina—bu ely landed in the State of Georgia, and
returned ; that the feat of the government in
that State, is 120 miles from that place inland,
and all communication with it for that dillance'
depends entirely 011 contingency. The opera
tion of this government will prove, said he, that
the didant extremes of the union, remote from
the warm and vivifying influences of the govern
ment, will have a fufficiently hard lot. And is
it to be thought bed that no way fliould be pro
vided to communicate any information to them >
that ignoi ance may be a foporific, to prevent a
a sense of their fituatiou. He was obliged to add
that great provision hacl long been made on one
extreme of the union, and none at all for the
°^ e r- Did the poll only cross the river into the
didritf: of Maine, and return immediately, their
situations would be somewhat similar ; but the
poll: road there had been several years extended
to Portland, which is 60 miles within the dif
trirt ; and in the year 1788, it was extended 80
miles further, to Pownalborough— not to go to
the feat of government of a date, for it is not a
'late, and the return will shew that it could
not be for the fake of the revenue.
The piefent claufein the bill provides for con
tinuing the post to the fame place, he relied on
thejuftice of the house, that his motion would
750
prevail, and that the post-road would be extend
ed to Augusta.
Some other alterations toMr.Steele's proposition
were offered—all of which were negatived, as was
the original motion.
SATURDAY, Feb. 12.
Sundry petitions were read and referred.
On motion of Mr. Boudinot, the committee on
the navigation ad; was discharged from any fur
ther proceedings relative to that fubjecl.
The report of the Secretary of State, on the
memorial of Andrew Brown, was taken intocon
fideration. A refolation in conformity to said
report was submitted, which, after some debate
was amended and agreed to.
A report of the Secretary of the Treafurv, 011
the petition of John Hollins, of Baltimore, was
read—which negatived the prayer of said peti
tion. This report being accepted, the petitioner
had leave to withdraw his petition.
Read and laid on the table, a report on the
memorial of the holders of Loan-Office Certifi
cates, received for loans in 1777 and 1778.
Reported, the enrolled bill for incorporation
the subscribers to the bank of the United States*
which was signed by the Speaker. '
A meflage from the Senate informed the house.
that the Kentucky Bill has received the aflent of
the Prelident of the United States: Also, that
the Senate has palled a bill providing for thead
miffion of Vermont into the federal union on the
4th March next:—And a bill determining the
number of representatives for Kentucky and
Vermont;—by this bill, each of these states is to
be entitled to two representatives. These bills
were read the firft and second time, and macle
the order of the day for Monday next.
On motion of Mr. Gerry, the petition of Tho
mas Walley, and others, on the fubjedl of the
new emilfion money, was referred to the Secre
tary of the Treasury.
The amendments to the land-office bill, re
ported by the committee of the whole house,
were taken into consideration—aster some de
bate, the fubjedl was postponed to Monday.
Adjourned to Monday, 10 o'clock
MONDAY, Feb. 14
A meflage was received from thePrefident of the
United States, relative to a commercial treaty
with Great Britain, the substance of which is,
that from such communications as he had receiv
ed from the Court of London, he cannot infer
any disposition on the part of the British govern
ment, to form any connection ftriiftly commercial
with the United States.
Snmlry petitions were read and referred to the
Secretary of war.
On motion of Mr. Bourne—Archibald Crary,
who presented a petition the last session. which
was referred to the Secretary of war—had leave
to withdraw said petition.
Mr. Madison, Mr. Wadfworth and Mr. Leo
nard were appointed a committee to bring in a
bill explanatory of that part of the aid laying du
ties on goods,wares and merchandize, which im
poses a duty on foreign lead and calicoes.
In committee of the whole house—Mr. Boudi
not in the Chair.
The Vermont bill received trom the Senate on
Saturday, was taken into consideration—and af
terwards reported to the house without any al
teration—the bill was then read the third time,
and pafled.
Mefli-s. Sedgwick, Benfon, and Sturges,
were appointed a committee to bring in a bill to
give effetft to the laws of the United Scates, with
in the state of Vermont.
A meflage was received from the Senate, by Mr.
Secretary Otis, with the bill,entitled an act,repeal
ing after the last day of next, the d uties hereto
fore laid on distilled spirits, and laying others in
their stead pafled with fandry amendments-—
Another meftage informed the house that the act
to continue in force for a limited time, the a<ft
to regulate procefles in the courts of the United
States, which originated in the house, had alio
pafled the Senate
The house then proceeded in the further con
sideration ol the amendments, proposed by the
committee of the whole, to the bill to edablifh
offices, for the purpose of grantinglands, within
the territories of the United States ; and having
gone through the fame, and made some further
amendments. Adjourned.
TUESDAY, Feb. 15
Mr. Sumpter, Member from South Carolina,took his feat this day.
A number of petitions were read, and referred to the heads of
departments.
Sundry reports from the Secretary of War, on petitions and me
morials referred to him, were read and laid on the table.
A report from the Secretary of the Trcafury, pursuant to a reso
lution of the house, directing him to report whether any further
compensation is uecefiary to be made to the Commissioners of the
Loan-Omc< s, in consequence of extra duties and expences, occasion
ed by the funding-fyftetn : This report was in favor of a tempor
ary extra allowance with refpefl to paying expences—alfo ot
Clerks. Laid on the table. °
The report of the committee on the petition of lofhua Barney,
was taken up, and agreed to by the house.
Mr. Stone had leave of absence from Monday next.
The meflage of the Prefulent of the United States, communi
cated yesterday, was taken into consideration.On motion, this message was referred to a select committee of
seven, viz. Mr. Goodhue, Mr. Madison, Mr. Bourne, Mr. Law
rance, Mr. Fitzfimons, Mr. Smith (S. C.) and Mr. Vinirig.
A meflage from the Senate by Mr. Secretary Otis, informed
the House thet they have concurred in the refolutiou on the report
of the Secretary of State, on the memorial of Andrew Brown.
The amendments proposed by the Senate to the new revenue
bill were read, and referred to a committee of the whole house
to-morrow.
The house resumed the consideration of amendments proposed
to the land-office bill. Several additional amendments were pro
posed, some of which wereagreed to, others negatived.
A motion by Mr. Sherman, to strike out " the Attornev Gene
ral" for the purpose of inferring the Secretary oj the Treasury, as
iuperintendant of the general land-office, occasioned coniiderable
debate, and was finally negatived.
Mr. Gerry proposed a clause providing (in substanCe) that pub
lic securities, as well as fpecic should be received for the land, at
the lall price previously given for said securities by the Secretary
of the Treasury. This motion occasioned further debate, and was
finally carried in the affirmative—Ayes 34 —Nays 21.
It was then ordered that the bill be engrossed for a third read
ing.
The Speaker (at hair after three) informed the house, that he had
some private communications to make, which occasioned an or
der for clearing the galleries.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
IN a majority of the remarks of N. W. on the Eng
lish language, which some time ago appeared in the
Gazette of the United States, there is a yuflnefs which
•mill insure them the notice of every friend to propriety.
It is indeed a matter of serious importaiice to correCl
the wrong use or misapplication oj words in co/tverfa
tion—[or from thence the admission is easy into the fa
miliar kinds of writing, and the power oj habit (or
cuflom)is so difficult to be resisted, that they will many
times be unintentionally transjered into the moreferious
kinds of compaction.—J have noticed the improper use
tj some words which are not mentioned by N. W.
I have been surprised to find the Sound which fe
perates New-York from Long-Ifiand, called a river—
and this not only in discourse a?nong the Citizens of
New-York, but also in print, and even in the geogra
phy of the United States : I could not help imagining
how difficult an European would find it to discover on
a }nap the East river. Nor do I apprehend he would
find, a found and a river, used as synonymous by
Geographers or Lexicographers.
America is used very generally both by writers and
public speakers, when they on.ly intend the territory of
the United States. This is figuratively just, as a part
?nay be taken for the -whole, or contrary wife. Yet I
do not conceive it a just expression—it seems to resemble
the stile of eastern Potentates too much—tho J would
be jar from reprehending it, if I thought it added any
dignity to the United States. It may have firft come
into use as being much Jhorter to fay Americans, than
citizens of the United States : Some use Atlantic A
mericafor the United States—others United America—
the last is the mo/l proper,
It may appear paradoxical to a[fert, that fir ft and
iaft are luordj of the fame meaning ; but it can be
supported by quotations frpm authors of reputation—
■who, when they would convey the idea of an affair of
great importance, fay, it was a thing of the firft im
portance —others, it was of the iaft importance orcon
fequence, ire. According to -which we may justly fay,
the firft is la]}, and the lafl is firft.
ARIsriDES.
EXTRACT
PERHAPS I fliall be told that men such as the
great characters of antiquity are no longer to be
found. lam however of opinion, that there is
not the least foundation for speaking or thinking
in this manner. Was Chatham in greatness in
ferior to a Roman ? Will his son, who when yet
a youth, thundered forth in the Senate like L)e
mofthenes, and like Pericles rivetted the attenti
on of those who heard hitn, and who now, when
little more than thirty years of age, makes him
ielf be feared and refpe<fted as the Prime Mini-
Iter of England, ever think or ac r t with less dig
nity than his father ? What men have once been
they may always be. Greece or Rome never had
on their thrones, or at the head of their armies
a great man whose equal may not be found atpre
fcnt inEtirope. Wherever there is a defireforit,
■wisdom and virtue profit, at court as well as in
private life, in the palaces of Kings equally as
in the cottage. Wife solitude is never so respec
table as in a palace : There in profound tranqui
lity, may one weigh the most important affairs,
live calmly, happily, and contented, when one
does without ostentation whatever duty requires
and when one knows how to avoid the contagion
of frivolous and weak minds. One may acquire
inltrudlion every where, and at all times ; and if
we cannot return and begin a new career, we
may at least employ properly that time which re
mains, nnlefs the man who has it in his power to
display the lamp oftruth chooses rather to be fa
tisfied with the feeble light of the glow-worm.
EPITAPH
fid Yousc Lady, who was drowned in herfjthyear,
SOFT as the balm the gentle gale diftills,
Sweet as the fragTance of the new-mown hills,
Her opening mind a thousand charms reveal'd,
Proov of those thousand which were still conceal'd.
The lowliest flow'r in Nature's garden plac'd,
Pern tted just to bloom, and pluck'd in haste.
Angels beheld her lipe for joys to come,
And call'd, by God's command, their sister home.
LONDON
Extract of a letter from King/lon, Jamaica.
" An extraordinary circumstance happened in
this town a few days since, to a young Jewess,
daughter of Mr. Jacob Mendez Guntfa, deceased.
This girl, who is about 14 years of age, had from
her infancy been entirely dumb, and deaf;
being prelent when her father was in the ago
nies of death, flic was so affetfted as to fall into
violent fits ; on her recovery, to the utter afton
ilhment and terror of all persons present, she be
gan to articulate, and, with every mark of the
inoft poignant grief, bewailed the loss of her de
ceased parent, in terms perfpiflly to be under
stood. This phenomenon,' as wonderful as it
is interesting, will doubtless prove a theme for
difcuflion to the speculative philosopher, who
wishes to account for every uncommon appear
ance proceeding from natural causes."
NEW-YORK, Feb. 11
Extra!} from GovirnorPtnckney's mejfage to the South-
Carolina House of Representatives, January 10.
(at Columbia.)
" BY one of the arts accompanying this, you
will perceive that the United States have consent
ed to a flu me and fund, upon the principles there
in mentioned, fonrmillions of dollars of the debt
of this state. Upon conlidering the terms on
which the aflumption is made, I am hopeful when
the true balance of our state debt is known, the
aflumption will nearly cover the whole ; and
that our public income in future will not only be
fully fufficient to pun<ftually discharge all de
mands as they arise, but to enable us in a few
years to extend to every part of the state those
benefits of inland navigation, under the want of
which they have so long and inconveniently la
boured. Convinced that no measure of domestic
policy can by any means compare with this in im
portance, I take the liberty of recommending it
to your serious attention whenever you may be
of opinion that the public are in actuation to at
tempt it.
All the aifts of Congress palled duringtheirlaft
feifion are herewith transmitted, and a copy of
die definitive treaty concluded between the Uni
ted States and the head men and warriors of the
Creek nation. Copies of a letter from the gover
nor of North-Carolina received in February last
on the fubjecl of amendments to the general go
vernment, and of a resolution of the legislature
of Virginia refpecfting the right of the citizens of
the United States to hear the debates of the fe
deral Senate, are also transmitted."
January ij.
" The governor's meflage was referred by
both houses to a special committee.
" The committee of the house of representa
tives in their report on the meflage, approve of
the conducft of Virginia, and recommend a co
operation.
At a meeting of the commissioners of the land
office of the state of New-York, held at the ci
ty-hall, in the city of New-York, on Wednes
day, the second day of February, 1791.
PRESENT.
Excellency George Clinton, Esquire,
Hi»
Aaron Burr, Esq. Attorney-General.
Gerard Bancker, Esq. Treasurer, and
Peter T. Curtenius, Auditor,
WHEREAS a road hath lately been explored,
marked and laid out under the direction
of this board, commencing on the road leading
from Kingston to Peenpack in Ulster county, a
bout one half mile foutherjy of Wawafink church
and extending from thence westerly to the houle
of Jobannis Ofterhoudt, atLackewack, and then
crofting the Rofandili creek, and continuing wes
terly ot the molt direcfl route which the country
will adroit of to the Blue mountains; and thence
continuiag westerly as the fame is marked to the
Delaware river, nearly oppolite to the mouth of
the Tockpolick creek—Resolved, that proposals
for contracts will be received at any time bet ween
this and thtfirft day of April next, at the secre
tary's office, for makiag that part of tbefaid road
which lies between the house of thefaid Johan
nis Ofterhoudt and thefixteen mile tree from the
Delaware, and which tree stands about one half
mile ealt of the Calkooi. creek, in the manner
following, to wit The said road to be cleared
of trees, logs and under brush, two rods wide at
least ; and such parts of it to be causewayed as
may be neceflary lor the pafling along the fame
with loaded carts and waggons, and good and
fufficient bi idges uade over all creeks not ex
ceeding forty feet in width ; the rocks and large
ft ones to be remove* out of the said road, and
the fide hills dug ant levelled, fothat such load
ed ox carts and wagpns may with ease andfafe
ty pass along the fan)'.
A true copyfrom the miniites.
LEWB A. SCOTT, Secretary.
HARRISBIRGH, Jan. 25.
By letters Mufkingum the 17th
in ft. we are enabled o present the folio-win? in
telligence to our reatlrs.
751
Governor.
About 6 weeks ago, a small party of the nioft
enterpi lzing of the Mufkingum people, commen
ced at a settlement at a place called the Big Bot
tom, about 24 miles from Marietta by land', and
about 40 miles up the Mufkingum. They had
>uik a block house, arid had began to make im
provements—when on the 2d inft. in the dulk of
(he evening, not having barred the door, the
house was surprized by a party of about 40 In
dians, consisting chiefly, if not wholly, of the
Tawawa,Shawanee and Kekkappoo nations. The
otifet was so impetuous, that the unhappy vic
tims had not time to find a gun, but fell an easy
facrifice to the vindictive and cruel enemy, whose
horrid policy would not admit the last ot the un
fortunate party who were in the house to the
claim of mercy, notwithstanding it was fuefl for
in the most moving manner. One person only
of the whole escaped, by being out, who lay con
cealed about forty rods from the place, and was
witness to the awful scene. The number who
perished on this occasion, were in all 14; among
whom were one woman and two children. Thi ee
prisoners were taken from a small cabbin 1 mils
from this place the fame evening, whose fate is
doubted to be still more unfortunate.
Philadelphia, Feb. 16.
The United States, on the broad basis of an lio
neft policy, and an efficient government, cement
ed by Union, must very shortly exhibit a fpeifta
cle on the theatre of the world, novel, attra<ftive
and august ! —Already do we behold an astonish
ing change in the deportment of some of the
European powers towards us—and from the uni
ted force of refpedt and interest, we may antici
pate the moment, when arivalffiip for our friend-
Ihip ffiall give us an opportunity to avail ourselves
of the molt favorable political and commercial
overtures.
Theacceffion ofKe'ntucky and Vermont to the
Union, is an event that appears to give univer
sal fatisfacftion : The facility and promptitude
with which this business has been accom plifhed,
evince a cordial disposition in the minds of our
civil fathers, to extend the blessings of the gener
al government to the inhabitants of the remotest
pat ts of the United States—Thus link after link
is added to the chain, which connedls the great
American family in a union ofinterefts and affec
tion, and which we trust will exist, co-eqHal with
time.
The State of Vermont will be an important
memberofthe Union. Its length is 155, andits
breadth6o miles. Its foil is strong and fertile—
is finely watered, and affords the best pasturage
for cattle. The bulk of its inhabitants are har
dy and enterprizing, emigrants from Connecticut
and Maflachufetts, and their descendants. No
State in the union|afFords a more efficient militia,as
many of their acftions in the late war fufficiently
teftify ; and there are nearly 18,000 men upon
its militia rolls. The number of its inhabitants
is estimated at nearly 100,000, and will therefore
be entitled three representatives to Congress.
[General Advertifer.~\
The time of the dilToiution of the firft Houfeof Representatives
under the new Constitution, draweth nigh—and the public busi
ness moves with encreafing celerity : Tho the remaining period
of the feflion is fliort, there is every profpeft of finilhing the moit
important fubjefls : Some articles will probably lay over to the
second Congnfs ; but they will be taken up with the advantages
of more popular information, and the light thrown on them by
the deliberations of their predecessors.
The first Congress under, the New Constitution.
May be called, in the language of truth,
THE CONGRESS OF THE PEOPLE OF THE UNITE®
STATES!
Of its character,
" It needs no other Elogium, than a recital
Of its own ACTS
It cemented the union of the States ,
It destroyed the daemon of Anarchy ,
and fixed
The public confidence and tranquility,
On the firm pillars of
Liberty, Law, and Government.
It snatched frtim impending ruin,
PUBLIC CREDIT :
" RAISED THE FUNDS
EXTENDED COMMERCE ;
ESTABLISHED A REVENUE
Without imposing exceflive burthens on
The People.
It invariably
Watched over and protefled
The Rights of the individual States,
and of the Citizens,
And tho th' historic page may scan some errors,
" On the whole,
We are warranted in this wish—
May its successor equal it"
In Firmness,
Integrity,
Pat rioti sm,
Attention to Business,
and
Public Confidence.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES,
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 17/ I 17/3 p r . / 86| pr. cent.
3 pr. Cents of gji 45 do.
Defered 6 pr. Cents o,fi. 46 do.
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 15/916/" 80 do.
Indents gj~ 4fi do.
N. and S. Carolina debtj, nji io.Report of the Secretary of the Treasury, on the
fubjcift of a Mint.
(continued.)
THE diffeience eflablilhed by cuftotn in the United States be
tween coined gold and coined silver, has been ftatcd upon
another occasion, to be neai iy as Ito 15.6 This, if truly the
cafe, would imply that gold was extremely over-valued in the
United States ; for the highest aflual proportion in any part of Eu
rope, very little, if at all, exceeds 1 to 15 ; and the average pro
portion throughout Europe is probably not more than about 1 to
j 4 4-5. But that statement has proceeded upon the idea ot the
ancient dollar. One penny-weight of gold of 22 cairats fine
at 6s. Bd. and the old Seville piece of 386 grains and 15 tnites ot
pure silver at 7s. 6d. turnifh the exatt ratio ot Ito 15.6262. But
this does not coincide with the real difference between the metals,
in our market, or which is with us the fame thing, in our curren
cy. To determine this, the quantity of fine silver in the general
mass of the dollars now in circulation, must afford the rule.
Taking the rate of the late dollar of 374 grains, the proportion
would be as 1 to 15.1 1 —Taking the rate ot thenewefl dollar, the
proportion would then be as Ito 14.87. The mean of the two
would give the proportion of 1 to 15 very nearly ; less than the
legal proportion in the coins of Great-Britain, which is as one
to 15.2 ; but lomewhat more than the attual or market propor
tion, which is not quite 1 to 15.
The preceding view ot the fubjeft tloes not indeed afford a
precise or certain definition of the present unit, in the coins, but
it furnifhes d3ta, which will serve as guides in the progress of the
investigation. It ascertains at least, that the sum in the money ot
account of each State corresponding with the nominal value of the
dollar in such State corresponds also with 24 grains and 6-8 of a
grain of fine gold, and with fomcthing between 368 and 374
grains of fine silver.
The next enquiry towards a right determination of what
ought to be the future money unit of the United States turns up
on these qucftions—Whether it ought to be peculiarly attached to
either of the metals, in preference to the other or not ; and, if to
either, to which of them ?
The suggestions and proceedings hitherto have had for obje£l
the annexing of it emphatically to the silver dollar. A refoluuon
otCongrefs ofthe6ih July, 1785, declares that the money unit of
the United States shall be a dollar ; and another resolution of the
Bth of August, 1786, fixes that dollar at 375 grains and 54 hun
dredths of a gram of fine silver. The fame resolution, however,
determines, that there ftiall also be two gold coins, one of 246
grains and 268 parts of a grain of pure gold, equal to ten dollars,
and the other of half that quantity of pure gold, equal to five
dollars : And it is not explained, whether either of the two spe
cies of coins, of gold or silver, shall have any greater legality in
payments, than the other. Yet it would seem, that a preference,
in this particular is ncceffary to execute the idea of attaching the
unit exclusively to one kind. If each of them be as valid as the
other, in payments lo any amount, it is not obvious, in what ef- 1
fe&uai sense, either of them can be deemed the money unit, ra
ther than the other.
If the general declaration, that the dollar shall be the money
unit of the United States could be unoerftood to give it a fupcri
or legality, in payments, the institution of coins of gold, and the
declaration that each of them shall be equal to a certain number
of dollars, would appear to destroy that inference : And the cir
cumstance of making the dollar the unit in the money of acconnt
seems to be rather matter of form, than of substance.
Contrary to the ideas which have heretofore prevailed, in the
suggestions concerning a coinage for the United States, though not
without much Kefuation, arising from a deference for those ideas,
the Secretary is upon the whole strongly inclined to the opinion,
a preference ought to be given to neither of the metal? for the
money unit ; Perhaps if cither were to h<? preferred, it ought to
be gold rather than silver.
The reasons are these—
The inducements to such a preference is to render the unit as
little variable as poflible, because on this depends the steady value
of all contrafls, and in a certain fenfeof all other property. And
it is truly observed, that if the unit belong indiscriminately to
both the metals, it is fubjt& to all the flu&aiions, that happen in
the relative value, which they bear to each other : But the fame
reason would lead to annexiug it to that particular one, which is
itfelf the least liable to variation ; if there be, in this refpeft, any
difcernable difference between the two.
Gold may, perhaps, in certain fenles, be said to have greater
stability than silver : as being ot fup< rior value, less liberties have
been taken with it, in the regulations of different countries. Its
standard has remained more uniform, and it has, in oiher refpe&s
undergone fewer changes : as being not so much an article of
merchandize, owing to the use made of silver in the trade with the
Zaft-Indies and China, it is less liable to be influenced by cii
cumftances of commercial demand. And if rcafoning by analo
gy, it could be affirmed, that there is a physical probability of
greater proportional encreafe in the quantity of silver, than in that
of gold, it would afford an additional reason tor calculating on
greater steadiness in the value of the la ter.
As long as gold, either from its intnnfic superiority, as a metal,
from its greater rarity, or from the prejudices of mankind, retains
so confidcrable a pre-eminence in value, over silver, as it has hi
therto had, a natural consequence of this seems to be that its con
dition will be more stationary. The revolutions, therefore, which
may take place, in the comparative value of gold and silver, will
be changes 111 the state ot the latter, rather than in the state of the
former.
If there should be an appearance of too much abftra&ion in
any of these ideas, it may be remarked, that the firft and moll
simple imprcflions do not naturally incline to giving a preference
to the inferior or least valuable ot the two metals.
It is fometimcs observed, that silver ought to be encouraged ra
ther than gold, as being more conducive to theextenfion of bank
circulation, trom the greater difficulty and inconvenience which
its greater bulk, compared with its value, occasions in the trans
portation of it. But bank circul tion is defuable, rather as an
aux-liaryto, than as a substitute for that of the precious metals;
and ought to be left to its natural courfe—Artificial expedients to
extend it, by opposing obstacles to the other, are at least not re
commended by any very obvious advantages. And in general, it
is the (ateft rule to regulate every particular institution or obje6>,
according to the principles, which in n la ion to itfelf, appear the
moll found. In addition to this, it ma) be observed, that the in.
convenience of transporting eithe> of the metals, is fufficiently
great to induce a preference of bi»nk paper, when ever it can be
made to answer the purpofeequaliy well.
Bui upon the whole, ii seems to be moll advifeable, as has been
observed, not to attach the unit exclusively to either of the metals ;
because this cannot be done effc&ually, without destroying the of
fice and chara&er ot one of them as money, and reducing it to
the fnuation of a mere m'rchandize ; which, accordingly, at
different times has been propnfed from different and very ref
pcdtable quarters; but which would probably be a greater evil
than occasional variations in the unit, from the flu&uarions in the
relative value ol the metals, especially it cafe be taken to regu
late th proportion between them, with an eye to their average
commercial value.
To annul the use of either of the metals,fas money, is to abridge;
the quantity of circulating medium *, and is liable to alltheobje -
tions, whi< h arifc from a comparison of the benefits of a full, w I
the evils of a fcantv circulation.
It is not a fatisfaftory answer to fay, that none but the favoured
metal would in this cafe, find its way into the country, as in iha t
all balances must be paid. The pradticability of this would in
some mcafure depend on the abundance or scarcity of it, in the
country paying. Where there was but little, it either would not
be procurable at all. or it would cost a premium to obtain it—
which in every cafe of a competition with others,in a branch of trade
would conlluutea dedu£fciou from the profits of the party receiv
ing; perhaps, too, the embari ailments which such a circumllance
might foinetimes create, in the pecuniary liquidation of balances,
might lead to additional efforts to fend a substitute in commodi
ties, and might lo far impede the introduction of the metals. Nei
ther could the exclusion of either of them be deemed, in other re
fpe£ls, favourable to commerce. It is often in the course of trade
as delirable to poflefs the kind of money, as the kind of commo
dities bed adapted to a foreign market.
It fcems, however, mast probable that the chief, if not the sole
effect of such a regulation, would be to diminish the utility of
one of the Petals. It could hardly prove an obftacleto the intro
duflion of that which was excluded, in the natural course of trade;
because it would always command a ready sale for the purpose of
exportation to foreign markets. But such an effect, if the only
ont, is not to be regarded as a trivial inconvenience.
If then the unit ought not to be attached exclusively to either of
the metals, the proportion which ought to fubfill between them,
in the coins, becomes a preliminary enquiry, in order to its proper
adjustment. This proportion appears to be, in several views, of
no inconsiderable moment.
One consequence of overvaluing either metal, in refpe& to the
other, is the banishment of that which is undervalued. If two
countries ,ire supposed, in one of which the proportion of gold to
silver is as Ito 16, in the other as Ito 15, gold being worth more,
lilver less, in one than in the other, it is manifeft, that in their reci
procal payments, each will fele& that specie- which it values least,
to pay to the other, where it is valued molt. Besides this, the
dealers in money will, from the fame caufc, often find a profitable
traffic, in an exchange of the metals be:wcen the two count ies.
And hence, it would come to pass, if other things were equal, that
the greatelt part of the gold would be colle&ed in one, and the
greatelt part of the filvcr in the other. The course of trade might
in some degree counteratt the tendency of the difference in the le
gal proportions, by the market value ; but this is fd far and so of
ten influenced by the It gal rates, that it does not prevent their pro
ducing the effe£t which is inferred. Fa£fcs too verify the infer
ence : In Spain and England, where gold is rated higher than in
other p3rts of Europe, there is a scarcity of silver, while it is found
to abound in France and Holland, where it is rated higher in pro
portion to gold, than in the neighbouring nation. And it is con
tinually flowing from Europe toChina andtheEall-Indies,owing to
the comparative cheapnefsof it in the former, and dearnefs of it
in the latter.
This consequence is deemed by some not very material ; and
there are even persons, who from a fanciful predile&ion to gold,
are willing to invite it, even by a higher price. But general uti
lity will best be promoted by a due proportion of both metals.
If gold be mo'ft convenient in large payments, silver is best adapted
to the more minute and ordinary circulation.
But it is to be fulpetted, that there is another consequence more
serious than the one which has been mentioned. This is the di
minution of the total quantity of specie, which a country would
naturally poflefe.
It is evident, that as often as a country, which overrates either
of the metals, receives a payment in that metal, it gets a less a&ual
quantity than it ought to do, or than it would do, if the rate were
a juftone.
It is also equally evident that there will be a continual effort to
make payment to it in that fpccies, to which it has annexed an
exaggerated estimation, wherever it is current ut a less proportional
value. And it would seem to be a very natural effect of these tw®
caufcs, not only that the mass of the precious metals in the country
in question would consist chiefly ot that kind, to which it had
given an extraoraina: y value, but that it. would be absolutely less
than if they had been duly proportioned to each other.
A conclusion of iiii» i, nowcver, is co oc drawn with grca* -
caution. In such matteis, there arc always fomc local and many
other particular circumstances, which qualify and vary the opera
tion of general principles, even where they are just ; and there are
endless combinations, very difficult to be analized, which often
render principles, that have the most plausible pretentions, uufound
and dclufive.
There ought, for instance, according to those which have been
stated, to have been formerly a greater quantity ot gold in propor
tion to silver in the United States, than there has been; because
the aflual value of gold in this country, compared wiih silver,
was perhaps higher than in any other. But our fuuation in legard
to the Weft-India ifiands, into some ot which there is a large in
flux of silver dire6cly from the mines of South America, occasions
an extraordinary supply of that metal, and confequenily a greater
proportion of it in our circulation, than might have been expc&ed
from us iclative value.
What influence the proportion under conhderation may have
upon the Hate of prices, and how far this may counterafl its ten
dency to increase or lei Ten the quantity ot the metals, are points
not easy to be developed ; and yet they are very neccffary to an
accurate judgment of the true operation of the thing.
But however impoflible it may be to pronounce with certainty,
that the poffeflion of a less quantity of specie is a consequence ot
overvaluing either of the metals, there is enough of probability in
the considerations, which ieem to indieate it, to form an argument
of weight against such overvaluation.
A third ill consequence iefulting from it is, a greater and more
frequent disturbance of theftateofthe money unit, by a greater
and more frequent diversity between the legal and market propor
tions of the metals. This has not hitherto been cxp:rienced in
the United States, but it has been experienced elfeivhere : and
from its not having beeh felt by us hitherto, it dors not follow
that this will not be the cafe hereafter, when our commerce shall
have attained a maturity, which will place it under the influence
ot more fixed principles.
In eftabliftiing a proportion betwec.i the metaL, there seems to
be an option of one of two things—
To approach as nearly as it c;n be ascertained, the mean
or average proportion, in what may be calltd the commercial
world ; or
To retain that which now exists in the United States. As far
as these happen to coincide, they will renderthe coarse to be pur
sued more plain and more certain.
"Io ascertain the tirft, with precision, would require better ma
terials than are poflefied, or than could br obtained, without an
inconvenient delay. (Ton continued.)
South-Carolina Lands for Sale,
ABOUT one hundred mile! fron Charleston, for any kind of
Goods. One third part of 63 Tracts of Land, containing
51,900 acres, lying near the rivers o'Savannah, Big and Little Salt
Cohachees, and the fork of the Edifto : The'fe Lands are a
lark, or a copper-coloured foil, inin inhabited part of the State.
Also 5 trails of Land in Ninety-Si diftria, 4 in Orangr'ourg dif
n£l, 6 in Camden, all containing ',600 acres, all good land, with
ftrea.ns of water running through nem. TheieLands will be fold
O low, that a man may make hisortune in buyino- them, for the
puipofe of felling them again, as emigrants are aaily arriving there
from Europe, to fettle. " 0
Duplicate Plots and Grants mabe seen, and indisputable titles
w ll be given by the fubferiber. FREDERICK KING
Morrijlown, Jan. 179,. (77—6wiw.)
752
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY.
r ~I~' , HE Managers at the STATE LOTTERY, prcfent the Pubic
jL -with the Firil C'afs of the Majfachufetts semi-annual State Lot
tery, which will commence drawmgin the Reprefentatives'Chamber
in Boston, on the Seventeenth of March next, or Jooner i if the
Tickets ihall be disposed of.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE
25y000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125,000 Dollars, to be paid in the following Piizes, lubjcft to a
dedu&ion o I twelve and an halj per cent. for the use of the Com
monwealth,
Prizes.
1 of
2
3
6
. *0
30
80
90
100
1 20
161
2 09
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks,
2 5000.
|f3T TICKETS may be had of the several Managers,who will
pay the Prizes on demand—of the TREASURER of thcCommon
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Siotc t Franklin's-flead y
Court-Street, and at other places as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.l
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER, Managers.
GEORGE R. MINOT, I
JOHN KNEELAND, j
Bojlon, Juh 28, 8790.
Tickets in the above Lottery are to be Jold by Stephen Aullin,
corner oj Front and Pine Streets, Philadelphia.
PLEASE TO NOTICE
JCT* FOR the accommodation of those who would
wish to beco?/ie Adventurers in the Fir ft Class of the
MassachusettsSemt-annual St ate Lottery,
letters, pod paid, directed to Samuel Cooper, at
his Office, North fide State-Houfe y Boflon, enclosing
Philadelphia y New-York or 80/ ion Bank-Bills, or
other good Bills, will be particularly attended to, and
Tickets forwarded immediately upon the receipt of
such letters.
Boston, Dec. 22, 1790
N.B. A Lift of Prizes will be deposited with the
Printer hereof immediately *fter the drawing is
compleated. 71 law tf
The Managers of the STATE LOTTERY allure the
public, that the firft Class of the Semi-anuual Lottery will pofitive
iv commence drawing on the day appointed, viz. the 17th of
March next. As the Managers have in their several Monthly Lot
teries commenced drawing at ihe hour afligned, so they are deter
mined to be equally as pun&ual in this. Jan. 52.
TO BE SOLD.
The seat ok the late governor
LIVING S r 0 N,
situate about a mile from Elizabeth-Town, oh the public road to
Morris Town. The farm contains between go and ioo acres of
land, 15 or 20 acres of which are wood land ; there is also apper
taining to the said farm about 19 acres of fait meadow. Particular
attention having been paid to the cultivation of fruit ; there is on
the farm a very large collection of various kinds of the choicest
fruit trees, &c. in full bearing; the house is large, convenient,
well built and in very good repair.
Enquire of the Printer, for further particulars,
New-York, Jan. 1791
Manuel Noah,
BROKER,
No. 91, Race-Street, between Second and Third-Streets,
BUYS and SELLS
Continental & State Certificates,
Pennsylvania and Jersey Paper Money,
And all kinds of SECURI TIES of the United Slates, or of any
particular State.
Philadelphia, Feb. 1790.
THE Copartnership of HEWES and ANTHONY having ex
pired the 3 1 ft ultimo, they request those, who have any de
mands, to exhibit their accounts and receive their money ; and
those who are indebted, are desired to make speedy payment, to
either of the Subscribers, at their Compting-Iloufe, No. 5, Chef
nut-Street-Wharf. J O S I A H HE W ES,
JOSEPH ANTHONY.
Philadelphia, Jan. 15, 1791.
N. B. They have yet on hand, and for SALE, at their STORE
abovementioned,
HYSON, Souchong, and Bohea TEAS,
Three cases Cassia,
Pimento in bags,
Mufeovado Sugar,
A few Cases old Batavia Arrack,
One cask of Durham Mustard,
New England Ru m in hoglheads and barrels,
A quantity ot prime Boston Beef,
Spermaceti, right whale and tanners' Oil,
Best pickled Mackrel,
6by 8 7by g—Bbyio—9byn—and xo by 12 Window
Glass,
A quantity of excellent carrot Tobacco,
And an elegant CHANDELIER.
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, and BOHEA
TEAS;
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c.
Of the firft Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street,between Chcfnut and Market-Streets,
N. B. A feiu Tickets in the New-York Lottery,
which is to be drawn the fir ft of April next, for sale.
The price oj this paper is 3 dollars per annum.
Dollars.
10000 is
3000 are
2000
1000
500
200
100
5°
4°
3°
*0
10
8
Martinico Coffee,
(2aw6w.)
Dollars,
10000
6000
6c o»
600*
scoc
6000
8000
45 c 0
400®
3600
3220
2000
6068 a
12500®
80 3m