[No. 107. —Vol. ll.j
THE TABLET No. CVII.
" Wrong headed blockheads when they help intend,
'•* Plague while they serve, and hurt while they befriend."
I AM of the opinion that people fiiftain more
inconvenience thro the ignorance and folly,
than they do thro the malice or treachery of
those with whom they are concerned. 11 is uiUc-h
ealter to counterwork the actions of bad men,
than of weak ones. Knaves may be retrained by
a variety of checks, from doing the tnifchief
which they meditate, and may be punilhed for
the crimes they actually commit. The whole
■world is, as it were, armed against their enor
mities. But there can be 110 effectual precaution
againftthe mismanagement of fools. Their mis
takes indicate no perverfenefs of heart, and can
neither deserve punishment or excite resentment.
How can we reproach a man when he meant us
no harm ? How can we guard against his errors,
when he has not discernment to ekape them him
felf ?
It too often happens, that we impute mifcar
riagesto the bad intentions of those we employ.
We do not so readily fufpetft that men judge or
calculate wrong, as that they intend wrong. But
thefacfl is otlierwife j and it will be lound, upon
a critical examination, that error of judgment is
the main source of public as well as private dif-
Orders. There is hardly a more common cha
racter in society than that of a marplot. This
fort of people are the more dangerous, as theyfel
dom attempt to do a good tuin, which docs not
terminate in a real disadvantage. Their zeal to
fevve us makes us accept of their services ; and
when they have committed one miitake, they are
so lorry for it, that we let them run into more
blunders to atone for what are past.
A marplot is most vexatious in public transac
tions ; because it then is more in his power to
betray stupidity without incurring contempt,and
propagate error without rifquing detection. In
pUbTic affairs there is i. great diversity of opinion ;
and in questions of alpeculative nature, declaim
ers of folly screen their impotency under profef
lioiis of patriotiftn. The appearance of patrio
tic zeal is too fafcinating not to give popularity to
the man who discovers it. Thus it happens that
weak men, who are a perpetual marplot upon
the plans of the prudent and knowing, insinuate
themfch'cs into the public confidence. This is
an inconvenience that all countries and ages have
experienced. There is no pollible remedy against
it. People will listen to tliofe whom they sup
pose to be their friends ; and it is peculiarly the
character of a marplot to be officious in offering
his good services. Hemuft be employed because
he means well, and he will do hurt, bccaufe he
li3S not discernment enough to do good. It would
be a fortunate circumstance in the management
of public affairs, if mankind'looked more to the
qualifications of those to whom they committed
their concerns. If men have underltanding they
will leek the public prosperity, because it is their
• interelt to do it ; but if they are deilitute of ca
pacity they will counteract the public weal, be
cause they can never know in what it consists.
A wrong headed man, however lionell he maybe,
cannot be supposed to concert proper measures,
since it is obvious that reason and propriety can
never alfimilate with his character. Whatever
he suggests will be tinged with the quality of
the fountain, from which it flows. Wife men
only can conceive wife institutions.
POLITICIANS.
NO country, perhaps, in the habitable globe,
contains so raanv government amenders
and declaimers on the fubje<ft of Conititutions, as
the United States.—Every man feenis to think
himfelf born a Legislator, and is generally so te
nacious of his own darling sentiment, that unless
it is adopted, he is continually complaining. But
this truth, advanced by the Soi.on ofourcoun
try, ought to be known:—That the experience of
the world hath shewn, that a person " may de
lend the principles of liberty, and the rights of
mankind with great abilities, and yet after all,
■when called upon to propose a plan of Legislati
on, he may aftonilh the world with a signal ab
surdity .
TIE great and important fubjeft of agriculture, having bertl
recommended to the notice of the national Legiilature, by
the Frefidem of the United States ; it will doubtless arrest their at
tention—and is there any thing of more consequence to the prof
pefity, -wealth and independence of the United States ? The pre
sent appears to be the crisis when the cultivators of the foil, ihould
xeceive the tokens of Legislative patronage.—Manufattures are the
o&pxing of agricultafc—aftd tnuft form the basis of al) profitable
■ Xpeoilatiaß.
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN f£,\XO, No 9, MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK
AGRICULTURE.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21, 1790
PROSPECT OF NORTH-BRITAIN.
By Dr. MITCHILL."
(l Scotch arc proud of their
JL Lock-Lomond. And truly the lake
with its contained islands, aud neighboring moun
tains, exhibits a mingled scene ofteauty andfub
limity. From the summit of the lofty Ben Lo
mond, there is the grandeil profpe<3a I ever en
joyed. Fortunately, when 1 was on ic the wea
ther was so serene and the atmosphere so free
from clouds, that one of my companions who had
ascended the mountain more than a dozen times,
said he had never had so fair a view of the sur
rounding objecfts. Southward the lake with its
twenty iilands,the village of Lufs,the mansions of
Camltraddon and Bonhill, and beyond Smollet's
sumptuous monument beside the river Leven,
the town and castle of Dunbarton and the Firth
of Clyde appeared beautifully in view ; further
than these, port Glalgow, Greenock, the islands
of Bute and Arran and the Craig of Ailfa, toge
ther with a part of Ayre-Shire and the Atlantic
Ocean, lay fairly displayed. Westward, beside
Lock-Long and Lock Fyne, feveraloftlie Hebri
des were -visible, and in particular the heights of
Ifla, the Paps of Jura and the mountains of Mull
could be clearly discerned. Northward the stu
pendous Highlands, extending in the Shires of
Perth, Breadalbaine and Argyle, away toward
Lochaber and Inverness, as far as the eye could
comprehend, afforded a fight ot rude grandeur
and wild sublimity, that delighted beyond de
scription. Eastward, Lock-Ard, Enrick water,
Lock-Law, the city and castle of Stirling, the
hills of Fyfe-Shire, the river Forth and the arm
ot the German Sea were plainly seen ; and had
there not been a hazy portion of air a little to
ward the South, it was judged that the castle of
Edinburg, Sallbury Craig, the Calton and Pent
land hills, and Arthur's leat might have been
descried."
* TTiis gentfrnran n preparingfrt of Experiments to tTyttie
qualities of the different kinds of timber, and of different prefer
vativc vainilhcs, in icfilting thr fslt.-waicr pipe-worm. His bud
has been infer ibed with the following vnfc,compolcd, as is thought
by the Roman Nai tius —
Intmd Mdt-ura nitidr feiutralie parait.
fOR THE GAZ.EI
" Admiration ar.J.uptabxjr.ee are incompatible."
I Would question t i.e'reality of this,tor the honor
ofourfpeeies, when taken literally—and lam
induced to think it vill not hold good as a general
truth, even »'itli ilie n<cefliiry exceptions, which
in all general rules are admired. it human na
ture admits not ot perfection, yet it is not so
wholly depraved as ro cxclnde both from senti
ment and conduit, every thing noble and meri
torious. Any thing intrinlically excellent inspires
us with admiration-—and tho there are compara
tively few persons poflellingthe eflentials for this,
we are not in confequeiue juftifiable in aflerting
that none have them. It requires a considerable
proportion, 110 doubt, of amiable qualities to
counter-balance the numerous propensities to
folly, and the many a<flions which deierve the
epithet of littleness. Still he who admits the a
bove position as fufliciently evident, holds a doc
trine extremely felf-debafing. tor depreciate
the supposed excellence only of human na
ture, and you eventually humble that defiie of
eminence of which few, very few are wholly di
verted. Who would make vigorous exertions to
acquire what is beyond the fpbere of poflibility ?
Tho I cannot boait of long experience in the
wavs of the world—yet what 1 have had
vincive of the contrary. If the greater pat t of
mankind are void of properties that can stand
the scrutiny ot acquaintance without deitroy
ing admiration, yet 1 firmly there is a
number bearing a proportional relation to the
whole mass of people as that of persons emi
nent in Arts and Sciences to thole unskilled
therein. Experimental knowledge is of superior
influence in inoft instances. It tali (caicely be
queftioiied that Collegiate acquaintances are ot
the highest intimacy and give a great opportuni
ty for discovering not only the abilities, but alto
the amiable qualities of the mind. Perhaps more
so than moll other situations. The disposition is
then formed for contmunioatlvenefs, being un
taught in the ways of deception untoui ed by
disappointment — I have been 011 intimate ac
quaintance with some, whose excellence, far
from vanifliing, was such as to encreafe my ad
miration. This inclines me to believe intimacy
thetouchftone by which we may distinguish real
yf ('} 1 !>: I'.Kll i£> STATES.
Q
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR ANN
from apparent merit. Nor would I apprelienfi
an enquiry after a perfoti pofltfled of real aad
intrinsic excellence, equally romantic with re
searches after the philosopher's (lone, or attempts
to balloou it to Luna. The inculcation of this
doctrine is also deftru<ftive of considerable happi-i
ness as it tends greatly tolefl'en the felicity of fa
cial connections. A propenfityfor admiration is
implanted in every breast— Who would risque the
loss of this by aflociating intimately with rhofc
he regaided ? If fully convinced it would destroy
or even leflen their reciprocal good opinion !
The married state, particularly when hearrs
congenial are united, is perhaps the situation
Where the molt complete liappinefs exists—and
mutual love can (I would fain hope) subsist in
this State where the closest intimacy lrnift necef«
farily be formed. What is hve, but admiration
raised to its highest pitch—and when it arises
from real excellence, it call itand the test ot
acquaintance
Upon the whole we may fafely concludc that the
idea in the inottois not flri<ftly true, and that ad
miration and acquaintance are not incompatible.
Our ideas of excellence are only comparative,
originating from what we find in human nature
—if it did not exist there, from whence is the idea
derived ? ARISTIDES.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUESDAY, MARCH 30.
The proportion for ttjjuming the fiate debts under conjide ration.
(Mi. Bland con*inued.)'
VIRGINIA had a number of marine officersand sailors which
were employed in her state vessels; these had also been put
on the lift of her public creditors, and had received certificate*
for pay and depreciation. In ftiort her military debt for cvvtineit
till turpofes amounted to three millions three hundred thousand
dollars principal, on which the had regularly paid an interest in
specie annually of fix per cent. This fund arose from arrange*
menu in her revenue, of which the had then the entire poffcOiom
Her impost was pafmeoi ol this interest, and wa»
competent thereto; has frit nut gJVcn up to the contine&t, to the
general government this nch fburce of levtnuc —and this debt, ot
others of a like nature is now charged on her lands and negroes.
From the commencement of the war, great, nay enormous emi
grations have taken place and still continue. Kentucky is said to
contain fifty or sixty thousand fouls, nine-tenths of which have
emigrated from Virginia. It is said, and I believe with truth,
that more than one half of Georgia is peopled from Virginia by
recent emigrations. The state of Frankliii, the cession of which
this house has just accepted, has been also chiefly peopled from
Virginia, and is said to contain more than twenty thousand peo
ple. Large numbers have emigrated to other states, to avoid ei
ther being called into service, to obtain lands on eafv terms, or
to ivoid taxation. What is now to be the situation of Virginia ?
The remaining citizens are to pay (unless the assumption takes
place) the whole debt, while she, who has been termed the eldeY
of the states, and not improperly may be termed the mother of
those just mentioned, may not unaptly be compared to the peli
can, who is represented as feeding her young with her life's
blood, t. e. with her citizens. And how are these citizens em
ployed ? Why, in Georgia, helping to pay theit state debt, and
in Kentucky and Franklin, hitherto out of the reach of taxation,
or unable to contribute any thing towards this purpose from their
own eXposed situation, being engaged in their own defence ever
since the war with Great-Britain.
Virginia may on this oecafion be divided into two parts, inde
pendent of Kentucky; that from the sea coast to about the heart
of the state, through which the army marched, both friends and
enetnies, as one part; and that near ar-1 beyond the mountains,
as another. The firft was fubjeft to have their houses and towns
burnt by the enemy, their plantations laid waste, and their ne
groes carried off. 'Tis beyond all doubt; that not less than 7000
of these the best of our laborers were carried off by the enemy, or
left their matters ; those inhabitants who fuffcred this loss are affo
the greatest cieditorl to the state and the United States, having
loaned money, had their property impressed for the use of their
armies, or contributed voluntarily to their support. By emigra
tion, vast quantities of vacant land belonging to the emigrants
have been brought to market, so that the lands in all parts of the
state have fallen perhaps 60 per cent, in value; and these lands
thus depreciated, are now loaded with a heavy tax to pay this
contimntal-ftatedebt. The burthen has become almost intolera
ble, and this burthen is aggravated by the lands being depopula
ted of their laboring hands, which have been either taken off by
the enemy, or by emigration.
I am not ftirprized (continued Mr. Bland) that Georgia has de
clared herfelf against the aflumption, or that the members even
from Virginia, who came from far weft should do so ; bot I own
I am a little surprized that North Carolina should have taken up
that opinion, efpeciallyas what has been said of Virginia with
refpefl to emigrations applies in a certain degree to her cafe also.
In short, when Virginia contraSed her debt she had reason to
think her resources were adequate to the pnyrtient, bot now those
resources are gone, she has not only parted with her revenue
from impost and tonnage, but (be has parted with her immense
territory Nortb-Weft of the Ohio. This fir, is deemed a respec
table fund for the discharge of the continental debt. What pro
portion of this fund will fall tf> her share as a state ? She will par
take of it exactly as her citizens are creditors of the United States;
and 1 believe it may be fafely aflerted, that the military debt
which she has taken on her<elt as a temporary measure recom
mended by Congress out of the question, her citizens will be
found as lenders to the continent or holders of continental securi
ties, not more than upon a par with some of the smallest states in
the union. [Mr. Bland here stated the amount of the state debts
of Virginia ; four-fifths of which if not nine-tenths might justly
be placed to the account of the United States.]
Some gentlemfn are very desirous to fever the funding of the
debt of the United States from that of the states, though both of
them have been incurred for the fame purposes, viz. the paymentof the army and the common defence against the common enemy;
it would be in my opinion like the separating man and wife, or
like amputating limbs from the body; I cannot fee where the
found part ends, and the gangrene, which is to be cut off, begins.
Mr. Bland hoped he had fatisfied his colleagues and the house
that his vote on this occahon was not the etteft of caprice or sin
gularity, but was fopnded on principle, both as it related to the
general good and the good of the (late f roin whence he came, and
that he would be juftifietf in voting that the assumption of the state
debts, so far as it went to that incurred during :he war for the ge
neral defence, (hould take place. He said he disliked long speech
es, and (hould not have troubled the house on this occasion so long
had fie not been fully convinced in his own mind and conceived
himfelf called upfrom the peculiar predicament he flood in,in dif
fering from all his colleagues in opinion on a matter of so much
moment to the union and to the state of Virginia.
Mr. Burke said he had a few observations to offer to the com-
Tnittee, in order to fatisfy some gentlemen whose principal objec
tions to the assumption of the State debts were the S. C. frigate
and the Penobfcot expedition ; these two objeflions remaining to
be moved away, it seems, as a fort of rubbish, before we can lay
the foundation. When the fubjeft of the State debts was formerly
before the committee of the whole, Mr. Burke was sorry he omit
ted to enter into the bift'ory of the tranfaftions relating to the fri
gate, not thinking that gentlemen would avail themselves of that
affair to embarrass the measure of assumption. He begged the
indulgence ps the committee while he gave a detail of it, as he
had no doubt of giving such a fatisfaflofy account as would con
vince the. committee that motives and reasons of that business
flowed from pure patriotic principles, and principles fonnefted
■with the general interests of the Union. There is not a gentleman
on the Floor who is a llranger to the feeble fitnation of our State,
■when we entered into thfc war to oppose the British power : We
■were not only without money, without an army of military (lores,
but we were few in number, and we were likely to be entangled
•with our domestics in cafe the enemy invaded us. When the
liritifh fleet and army arrived on our coafls in 1776,f0 (mall was our
quantity of powder that we could not trust but a veiy little part
of it in Fort-Moultrie, the firft post in front of the enemy—a pre
caution very fortunate to them, for had the garrison had a fuf
ficicncy of powder, through that auspicious day, the British ships
must have left their bones in the channel. And as to the article
of lead, it is a fa£l which has never been related, that the citizens
of Charleston were called on, and did a£lu»lly furnifh the lead
iifed in their window-fbutters : fuqh was the desperate situation
for want of (lores. As to small arms, those of the regular troops
were generally indifferent, and th(* militia were tniferably armed.
The adminillration, however, made every effort, in the years 1776
and 1777, and fparcd no expcnce to obtain those articles of de
fence from Europe and the Well-Indies : but so guarded and lined
were our coafls with British cruizers, that our attempts often pro
ved vain ; many vessels with those articles on board were captured,
often in fight of the town, and the few escaping had to run the
gauntlet through the enemy's fires. In the la,Ur end of 1777 (I
think it was) a Mr. Galvan prevailed on our government to em
ploy him to go to France for arms : he went accordingly, charged
with this commission, and with produce to purchase them. He
returned with thofa arms. Whether he was imposed on in the
contrail, or not, we could not tell ; but mod of them burst in
proving them. The whole importation was not, I believe, worth
one farthing for substantial use.
In 1778 our circumstances, for want of the means of defending
ourselves, were truly wrctched, and we had rumours and reason
to expeilthat our situation would again invite the enemy to invade
us. The means of procuring military (lores and cloathi'ng for our
flanding forces, or for the militia when called out, was an objefl
of such magnitude as to occupy the atteni ion of the patriots of that
country, and finally the mind'of the legislature, who, taking into
consideration the want of *11 kinds of necessaries requisite for our
lituation, viewing the unfortunate difappointmpnts met with hy
our (mall vessels falling into the hands of the enemy's cruising fri
gates : our legislature, in that year, resolved upon a bold enter
prising attempt to furnifli the country with (applies. This
attempt was to purchase in Europe, and equip for sea, three
frigates, w/hofe united efforts might give us a greater chance of
their reaching our coasts in fafety. It was an |.irdnous undertak
ing ; but it was such a one as was woithy of gallant men, contend
ing for liberty. And here I have to make one observation ref
pefling the State I belong to—l have not the honor of being a na
tive of itj so that I (hall not be charged with vanity or ostentation
—Such was the native generosity of that people, that thev thought
no expenee too great; such their gallantry and spirit of enter
prize, that though comparatively few in number, yet they deem
ed no danger or undertaking too arduous for them in the common
cau/e. For the business of the frigates they provided the enormous
sum of upwards of 70,000!. (lerling; and to go to Europe, to make
the purchase and take the command of them, they appointed a gen
tleman, Commodore Gillon, who, besides his being an able fea
irian, poffelfed bravery and talents. Indigo was purchased and
lhipped to France for that purpose ; but a misfortune soon pre
sented itfclf, which proved the source of all the embarrassments
■which that gentleman had to contend with in Europe, and of all
the trouble and expeirce afterwards attending the frigate South-
Carolina.
The vefiel in which a great part of the indigo was (hipped, was
manned with British seamen, picked up as ihev could begot in
our neceffitv; they mutinied at sea and the vessel and cargo, which
they conducted into England, was the reward of their treachery,
under Biitifh encouragement. Congress, about the commence
ment of the war, by way of retaliation, gave a limilar incentive to
British seamen to nin away with BritifW Weft-India ihips, into
the ports of the Continent, which they often did, and relieved
our wants of Weft. India produce. Destitute of seamen we were
obliged to employ men whose perfidioufnefs was felt by their
•friends and enemies. I mention it as a specimen of the honest
■jrankntfs and integrity of Britilh tars, often boasted of.
Commodore Gillon met with every difficulty and embarrafT
ment. It became impracticable for him to execute his commilfion
fully ; but well knowing the fervent zeal and expe&ation of the
country he served, refpe&ing the business he came upon, he deter
. mined to procure and equip a vefiel of force. As he was destitute
of the resources fufficient for the purchase, and as the credit of a
State, liable to the calamities of a desperate war, must have been
at a low ebb, an honorable member now of the Senate (Mr. Izard)
being then in Europe, warm with a patriotic zeal to promote the
service of his country, advanced his personal credit, which Com.
jnodore Gillon also did, for the purchase and equipment of the fri
gate South-Carolina. Those gentlemen, at that day, not only be
lieved they were taking a measure which would be acceptable to
their countrymen, but they thought they were doing what was
wife and expedient for the public service, or they never would
Jiave embarked their private fortunes in it as they did. The ship
putting to sea made several prizes, and so far performed service by
diftrefliug the common enemy. At the Havannah (he was em
ployed by the Spamfh government to cover the expedition against
■ New-Providence, a place which the Commodore his officers and
.crew were chiefly inltrumental in reducing. Any profit arising
irom those services we are willing to account for.
So the business of that frigate had its source in the generous
hreafts of our countrymen, in thrir honest warm fervor, for the
liberties and independence of the United States.
In order t~» put arms into the han-isof our citizens, to supply
powder, and other military lkoret, to put us on a foot
ing with our enr : ny, (hould thrv again invade us, and to redeem
:US fcom themiferable defenorlels situation we were plunged in in
•thj beginning of 1 7^B.
Mr. iiurl(f added a tew other obfeiv.>tions, and concluded by
.10 ng to thefomtnittee for having trefpalfed on their time.
He hxj ether things to advance, but would stop tor the prefetit,
and refervc himfelf for another occasion to sheW the policy and
justice of aflfuming the State debts.
Mr. Jackson replied to Mr. Bland and Mr. Burke. Although
he conceived the fubjett matter,, refpetting Georgia, foreign to the
point before the committer, yet, as it had been brought forward,
h? thought himfelf called on to perform his duty by a reply.
The gentleman (Mr. Bland) had declared Georgia to have fuck
ed the life's blood of Virginia, but that she had not a£ted as a du
tiful child in return. He did not know that Georgia was to do as
(he was bid ; but admitting the force of what the gentleman had
advanced, and that Virginia was the mother of Georgia, still
Georgia could not be called an undutiful daughter ; for the re
presentatives of the State of Georgia were of the fame opinion with
the body of the representatives of Virginia, on the fubjeft of the
afifumption of the State debts.
The gentleman had brought forward cftimatcs of debts and the
lodes of their refpettive States. If the lodes of Georgia were to
be compared, thofc of Virginia, or any other State, would be
comparatively small. Not to enumerate others, the lodes of the
whole cjops of rice, indigo, and corn, &c. of that State for the
years 1778, 1779, 1780, 1781, and 1782, would far overbalance
any estimate which could be produced ; and the loss of so many
crops was an inllance which could not be equalled by any State 111
the union.
Mr. Jackson then added a few words in reply to Mr. Burke,
and concluded by observing that he was still against the aflump
tion, nor did he think the house bound for it ; the exertions of
the different Stites has been üßequal; the house had only pledged
i'.felf tor a provision for the debts of the union,, and that he hoped
would take place. To be continued.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
MR. FENNO,
AMONG Me variousphenomena which now and then make their ap
pearance, none has ever Jlrick my minifoforcibly as t/te p'ejent
political phanomentm which the rejection of the ASSUMPTION exhibits.
Could any thing aid to the aflonifkment which it has excited, k umild be
the vers extraordinary reajons which ojlenfibly occajionei it.
Had aflate demagogue, apprdievfve oftojing his influence in a slate
ajfembly, endeavored to alarm the members with the terrori of a too-pow
erful Congrejs, and to persuade them that the public welfare depended
upon exalting theflate letiJUturcf and iepreff.ni the national one, while
we pitied the weakness ofperfpns who were Hiajjedby such reasoning, we
should hot h furpnfei at finding it employed by those whofepurpo/es it ,
anfwtrcd-, but that similar arguments \fhould be adduced in■ a certain
great ajfembly, by gentlemen [penally Appointed to adminifler the nation
al government, fieSed Jot that purpeftf rem the mass of the people, and
under the obligation oj every fact el tie to protest it againjl every attach
which might prevent its operating jor the lateral good,' it tome most un- i
accountable. Are there not in the Jeveral states men in abundance whose '
expectations art to'nfiied to a featin the Jlate legijlature,and whofor that
reason alone will gladly embrace every opportunity of thwarting, tie mea
sures oj die general government ? Are there not in every part of the con
tinent enemies to the ConJlitution who will eagerly grajp at every occur
rence which may turn to their advantage ? Nay, are there not in the very
bosom of this country, men who detejl the American people, wholichen at j
the fight of our growing prosperity, whose ireafis Jlill rankle with dijap- '■
potntment, qndrage at our glorious Independence, and whoyet. remember
that we were once part of the B'ritijh empire ? Is it Jorgotton that we are
encompajfed with Joes, that Cr&tl Britain holds our pojls and refufes to
deliver them up ; that her civil officers are now making encroachments on
our frontiers, and violating, the rights of jurifdiflioti of a refpedahle
Jlate -,that while we may be involved in hojlihties in the North and in the
Fajl, in conjequence of these proceedings, a very gloomy and lowering at
mosphere presents iff If to the Sifuth, and to the Wejl—i.< not the /Million '
of Georgtc atoneJvffictcnt to arOuse our attention and exciteoir'alarms ?.
Embroiled with the Creeks in a fierce and vindictive war, not like!)' to ter- i
mm ate but by the deflruSlion of one or the other people—fie >< now cm- J
broiling ktrf.if Act Brttijk debtsjlu emffated dur.!
mg the ftiar by a law which had been long o&fHete, but which has been |
recently called into afltve operation, and Jhould Great Britain confiderl
this an mfraClion of the treaty,the consequences may be readily anticipa
ted ; what then will be the deplorablefituation oj that unfortunate slate ?'
Attacked in the rear by the Creeks, (who it is well known are fipported
by Spain) her vejfels and produceJeized in the ports oj Great-Britain in
retaliation Jor the confijcatfon of the debts due to its Jubjeds ; She will
loudly call on Congrefsfor protection, andproteßion /he will undoubtedly'
He entitled to : Should Congress withhold it, Georgia mvjlbe utterly and
compleatly ruined: Should Congress afford it, we are immediately invol
ved in a war with Great Britain, Spam, and the Creeks. The fe are fer
to*s confederations, a ndJhould maie forte imprefjion on the minds of our
civil rulers What ajijtance are we to expeCt from abroad f None: Our
allies are not in a condition to afford us any : We muff depend on our
ownjlrength alone ; but what will that avail, difnnited as we are, pull
ing in different directions, and tearing the machine to pieces, in/lead of
drawing it forward! Nor is this all we have to contend with, the fitrn
"on of Rhode lfiand, tho in itfef not very a/arming, \et, as connected
with other ctrcurnftances, may welljuflfy difagreealle apprehensions.
'he enmity oj that State will ctmfida abh injure the revenue: She will be
' "s r o ff mu SS lers •' Her fcjition is admirably calculated to ensure wealth
and fajety to those who may engage in that profitableJpeculation, and the
precautions which the government may rejort to Jor the proteßlon of the
revenue will probabh cojl a largerfum than will be obtained from them
Such being then the precanoufnefs of our situation, haying ample cause
of uneasiness from a view of the Nortf WeJlern pojls, the contentions about
the Eajlern limits, Vermont, the WeJlern country, the Indians in every
quarter and the Creek nation more particularly, Rhode lfiand, the Bri
ttfh and Span fh empires, and the commotions in Georgia, each of which
ought alone to cause some anxiety; but all of which combined should excite
the greatefl apprehensions, and promote the utmofi harmony in the govern
ment, having nothing to depend on but our own resources, which will be
inejetlual without unanimity : Ought we not to execrate those, who un
der thefanClificd garb oj liberty arejowing the Jeeds ojdjunwn, that tee
may become a trey to the jirji invader.
Say, my fellow citizens, is this a timeto cripple the nationalgovernment
" nt "s aT tf° r our protection ? Is this what yoil
expected from thoje who were to adminifler it ? At a time when
a hojl ojJurrounding dangers Jhouldprefs the States into the mo/1 compel
union, would he be your friend who Jhould promote disunion, and anarchy
7 wir "i>ng tht States to be jealous of the government, to fufieCl iti mo'
tions, to arrefl its progress, and toflnp it ojusjlrengthandrelources ?
Say rather, such a man would be wholly fwayei ly some little grovelling
intercjt, mjleadojexpanding his mind to embrace the great obiefts of the
federal government : He would be hankering after popularity at home
Jrtghtenedatthefhadow of some Jlate demagogue, and securing another
eleChon by gratifying thefiate prejudices of a Jew conjlitue.nts, whose fi
tiuition dfqualified them fromforefeeing the mifeiies attendant on a vote
at which their ignorance might induce them to rejoice.
I fmcerely hope my fears are imaginary, and that there is not in our
councils anyberfon of that defer,ption. Should however any such terfon
offer hmfelf to you as a candidate at the approaching eleClton, tell h,m
my Jellow citizens that his mind is too little, his nerves too weak, ffs
ideas too contracted, his views too nat-row, tojullify your Ithxanp him in
him tl colfil hilSiesTo Z
iMle circle of a corporation, or at furthejl to a Jtate ajfembly, whrre he
™yj™ e h' l S co t e to his rhetorical powers, andpteaje all his confidents
rl? ny "' JUry V h L °"" r S "" a: Sh °«Ul« however by the
Zltn'L o J hs t on f,"'< mdth <} la «JM'ly of his manners overcome your
repugnance or should your vanity be gratified in being tetrefence/by a
man of br,",a"t talents remember that you will be answerable for all the
of flllTy \rf- aJjUrta ' / notwithjlanding a man may be po/fej/'d
ofjplendid abihties or extraordinary eloquence, yet if he carries,ft"
Longref Jlate inter efts, and illiberal prejudices and carno'ZJn,„Z*l
que/I,ons contemplate the good of,he whole, Juch a man w,lll e a cufefo
the people and h,s aHities a,A eloquence will only contribute to make
him more dangerous than he othertcje would he.
I have been drawn into iheje ob fervations by a consideration of the bre
sent awjulcrfis, which threatens the very exijlenceof'a governZt J^
426
was the hjl refute of the American patriot, and which hat Jiarr.l
menced its curecr. Vhe violent division in the H. of Ron } COrn ~
tional quepon, which has been once decided in the' efftrmatir,"""!"''
in the negative hyfmall majorities, and the iicertainty of the i'h °" e
ajion are cncumjlances which mufl defrefs the [pints ofj!T f'
while they piejent afubjett of joy to our enemies Lrt f r '"is,
that while there appears (from the debate's which have been PubT/kJfi
muchjujhee, policy, fa.rnrfs, equity, liberality, and federaliC
fide, and Jo much/late mterejl, partiality and Injufiict or, the 5,™ 7
the reason, goodfenfe, and virtue oj the majority null triumth « J ?
feme plan of accommodation will be devised, which at tit / '
it will remove any real objeßion which might have emh„,rl7j.'!" U " t
fare, will rejlore harmony to the States, and lay th'roZt t T
credit and national prosperity. A PR/END TO TH F.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED Statuc
MR. FEN NO, > l *T£S.
I fend you the extraß of a letter, uihich you uW puiliA ■
more particular and authentic account than has hithertoaiptarei'.f"? "
REVOLUTION IN THE BELGIC STATES^
Extratt of a letter f rom a gentleman in Br,dels, tohiicmd
AJew-York, dated Dec. 25, 178^,
YOU arc si nable Sir that bickerings nnd difoutrs •,
and fubfifled for several years between the Beleic nro"'"
and the emperor, which in the year .787 induced the P e„ D ,'" C "
arm and discipline themselves under the title of volunteers j "
m one instance they came to blbws «iththe emperor's tnxJ.f
veral people were killed in the grand place in this city and'tif"
patriots were quelled for the moment ; their affairs were notri
The beginning of last summer, their leader, Mr. Vandertm'
and the committee of the provinces afTembled in the Baromlj
Breda, where their deliberations could not be interrupted bv ifc
Austrian government, and from this place they
the patriots in the different provinces. They collcard asm
men as poflible to form an army, but in so secret a manner Si
they conduct their bufuicfs, that the government gave no creditt
the which were daily circulated through the country
they affrfteo to call them the army in the moon ; the army in™'
na.re, and however this army in the moon descended and fori'
zed the fort of Lillo, where they found a few cannon and ft
Imall arms ; the panic of the government was ioftamly v ,a'
the gates of BrufTels were (hut, the inhabitants difarmrd, 60 to'
sons of the firft rank and consequence iinprifoned, all clubs and
foeieties prohibited from meeting, and the streets broken unto
lorm barriers and ditches all over the city; the cannon were pli.
ced upon the ramparts, and the garrison confiding of moieiL
five thousand men constantly employed in repairing the work
and four thousand men collected from the different pofli fc raH )'
a flying camp, and marched up and down the country, under the
command of General Schroeder.
Thus we continued several weeks, till at last Schroedcr entered
the small town of Tournhout, without having duly examined 11
and was attacked from all fides, from the cellars, the windows'
the roofs, from mills and from churches by the inhabitants: He
101 l 6cc men and five pieces of caimon.and was himfelfwounded
He made a fhameful retreat or rather flight, and notwithftandinr
the hurry, so alert were his foldicrs at pillage, they plunderedfe.
veral houses, where they malTacred the inhabitant's men, women
and children, to the number of 40, which was nearly all thai [ell
on the fide of the patriots.
After this defeat they marched to Ghent and joined tiegmi
fon under the command of General D'Arberv, wherea terrible
scene was exhibited, but as you will fee it detailed l'n the pamph
let, I shall pass it over with only faying I believe that account to
be very jufl, and come to the affair of BrufTels, of which I have
been a witness.
Wt ether from a convi&ion in the government that they were
purluing a wrong mode with the people, or whether it vnt u\
consequence of orders from Vienna is not known, but the begin
ning of this month the gates were fetopen, the people were in
formed theirarmswould be returned upon application, (fewhow
ever applied) and this was followed by the removal of the barriers
and the discharge ot the 60 persons who had been confined.
The people were cxafperated tomadnefs by the insolence of the
soldiery, which was neither checked nor punished by Dalton,
who commanded them, he haa given out that he was provided
for a three months siege, and that he was determined to fuftaio:/,
and if at last he should be obliged to leave the place, he would
yield it to plunder and reduce it to ashes ; nothing better could
be expe&ed from this savage, who some years ago commanded in
Wallachia, where he destroyed the poor wretches without mercy,
and hung some hundreds of the firll nobility; in one inllance
thirty at a time upon the fame tree, without any form orproccfs;
for this and other proofs of his ferocity he was sent here to fuper
cede General Murray who old Kaunitz thought was too mild :
but as cowardice is the inseparable companion of cruelty, Mr.
Dalton has proved that he po fie fled the one in as great a degree
the other, as will appear from what I shall add, which you may
depend upon being the real truth of the matter : When thego
vernment began to relax in their Severities, to open the gates, re
move the barriers, return the arms and rcleafe the prisoners, to
publish humiliating placarts two or three in a day ; the people per
ceived that they had found their mistake, and were attualto afind
of the consequences, and those meafurc's instead of having the et*
fe£l expetted, operated quite differently upon the people, the)'
served to convince them of the weakness and fear ot the govern
ment, and gave them a proper idea of their own strength, andthu
added to what they felt before prepared them for the event which
was to follow.
It isufual on Thursdays to perform grand msfs at the pnnci
pal church called St. Gudule, and raoft of the city go there on
that day to perform their devotions; it happened the tenth of Df*
cember was Thursday, and after mass a person took a cockade
from his pocket, and putting it upon a (lick held it up to the
ple, rhey took the hint, it spread like wildfire, and
not a per fori was to be seen without one. However everything
remained quiet, Dalton fired his alarm guns, and put hi* lr oops
under arms, and thus they continued till four o'clock next day,
when the people afTembled from all quarters to take two piece*
of cannon from the main guard, which was on the grand placf«
this guard confided of 100 men under the command of a captain
atid two subs—there are seven streets that come into the gfar.i
place, the patriots had by this time collected about two hundred
people armed, but without order or command, and at fi' e 0
clock the attack commenced, the two pieces of cannon were play*
ed alternately at each of those fevem ftieets, not with grape or a°y
thing that is ulual, but with rivits, nails, old iron, broken bot
tles, &c. See. and the foldicrs fired much the fame fluff from their
muskets, which proved by the cartridges found in their boxes
many ot which 1 have seen. The firing conti/iued seven hours
without a moments intermiflion, when Dalton having made a
truce with the Baron Vanderhagen (who was called upon durirj
the night by the patriots tocommanu them) for the purpose,
three hundred men to bring off the guard, which they did about
two o'clock in the morning, the firing then ceased and all thing'
were quiet.—About to o'clock the 12th, Efelton having drawn a"
his troops together upon the square called the place Royale, pro*
posed tc? quit the town, provided the Patriots, who were now prt
paring to attack him,would engage to let him depart in peace, bet
while his officers were negociating with Mr. Vanderhagen andthf
committee, the panic came stronger upon him, and he went o
fuddenly towards Namur, so that when the officers returned totW"
place Royale they found it void ; and as soon as the troops pa»fd
the gate the desertions commenced, and before the next night onC
half of his army were returned to BrufTels who were kindly r f "
ceived.—Thus ended all the threats of Richard Sans Pcur, v/b'C
name his parifites had given him ; the remains of his army abou
-12,00 men mostly Germans got to Luxembourg but he witndrc*
may
digo
their
tins,
Engl
tk
Pi
Kiiv
furr
wri
Yon
ftrui
Frar
<Ufp
Eur.
aai:
ticlfhimfelf privately on the road and has not been heard of fmce.—
So precipitate was his flight that he left in the Caifle Militaire two
millions of florins in money, in theTrefor Royal three millions,
twelve pieces of heavy brass artillery, twenty light pieces, arms and
accoutrements for 20 thousand men, cloathing for 30 thousand,
and an immense quantity offlour, and other provision, ammunition
and forage, altogether,to the amount of about a million sterling ; be
sides this they took a great quantity of the like articles at Ghent,
at Malines where was the grand Arlenal, at Mons, at Namur, and
at Louvaine, so that they are provided with all that is neccflary to
cloath and arm sixty thousand men, which they are railing; the
province of Flanders has already completed its quota, which is
20,900. Brabant has made much progress, its quota is 17,000, so
that the other seven provinces, to wit, Hainault,
Limbourg, Guildres, Namur, Marquifiteof Antwerp,and Malines,
baveonly 23000 tofurnifh among them, and such is the population
of this country, and so roused are the people by injuries already
felt, and by the apprehendon of what they must fufferftiould they
once again fall under the dominion of the House of Austria, that
they find no difficulty in picking their men. The deserters from
the Imperial army (mostly born in the low countries) give great
assistance in disciplining and inftrufting the recruits ; they have a
General Mr. Vandermersche who, tho I do not think him a
Washington, has a good chara&er, and much merit ; he is dis
interested, cool, cautious, and brave, and about the age of 65 years.
He has seen service, and his conduct since he has had the command
of the Patriot Army, (hews, that he can ast either with the
city of a mill-horie motion of a German. *
From this state of their affairs, it ffiould seem there is small prof
pc6l of those provinces ever coming again under the Auftrianyoke,
even should England, Pruflia, and Holland not lend them allilU
ance.
But instead of thofc powers remaining idle fpeftators, they are
expected to declare for them as soon as they are in entire poflefli
on of the country, that is to fay when they have gained the pof
feflion of the Citadel of Antwerp, and the fortrefs of Luxembourg,
this opinion is very general, from a belief that England and Hoi
land have furnithed the money which was necefljry for the busi
ness, and of which they have had such supplies as to enable them
»o pa) down for every thing they have had, as well as paying their
army regularly ten-pence sterling per day.
What commercial advantages will arise to America from this
revolution, it is not eafyto point out at prcfent, but I think one
may expect them to be considerable, the consumption of rice, in
digo, tobacco, flaxfeed, timber, Sec. is very considerable, and
their manufaaures of coarse woolens and linnens, their silks, sa
tins, laces, &c. will be afforded cheaper than from France or
England, and consequently a good exchange.
The inhabitants in general look up to America with veneration
and refpea ; they consider her struggle and success as the firft cause
of the revolution in France, and o! the recovery of their own li
berty, confcquently not only the dates but the merchants, manu
faaurers, &c. in their individual capacities will receive with o
pen arms any proposals which Congress may think proper to make.
However I am but poorly qualified to judge what will or will not
contribute to (he advantage of nations."
fOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
I'leafc to publijh the enclofeJ beautiful Ext raft of Dr.
Price'/ Revolution Sermon, and obligeyours, S. B.
WHAT an eventful period is this ? I am thank
ful that I have lived to it; and I could al
m oft fay " Lord now letteft thou thy servant de
part in peace, for mine eyes have seen thy salva
tion." 1 have lived to fee a diffufion of know
ledge which has undermined superstition and
error—l have lived to fee the rights of man bet
ter understood than ever ; and nations panting
for liberty, which seemed to have loft the idea of
it. 1 have lived to fee thirty-millions of people,
indignant, and resolute, spurning at slavery, and
demanding liberty with irrcfiftable voice ; their
King led in triumph, and an arbitrary monarch
furrendcring himfelf to his fubjeds : after shar
ing in the benefits of one revolution, 1 have
been spared to be a witness to two otherrevolu
tions, both glorious. And now methinks I fee
the ardor for liberty, catching and spreading : a
general amendment, beginning in human afFaiis:
the dominion of Kings, changed for the domini
on of Laws, and the dominion of Prietts giving
way to the dominion of reason and conscience.
" Be encouraged all ye friends of freedom, and
writers in its defence ! The times are auspicious.
Your labours have not been in vain. Behold
Kingdoms admonilhedby you, starting from sleep,
breaking their fetters, and claiming justice from
their oppreflors ? Behold the light you have
ftruckout after setting America free, refletfted to
France, and then kindled into a blaze that lays
despotism in ashes and warms and illuminates all
Europe.—"Tremble all ye opprelTors of the
world! Take warning ( all ye supporters of flavi/h
government, and flavifli liierachies ! Call no more
(abfurdlyand wickedly) reformation, innovati
on. You cannot now hold the world in darkness.
Struggle no longer against increasing light and
liberality. Restore to mankind their rights ; and
consent to the correction of abuses, before they
and you are destroyed together."
SUPPRESSION OF AMBASSADORS, ire.
A/TANY suppressions have already been made
—but there remains a great many more to
make, and one of the most considerable is the ar
ticle ot Ambassadors, Envoys, Consuls, &c.
those decorated spies—those priests of commerce
who delight in (hackling trade, in order to make
themselves important at the expense of three
millions yearly.
Consuls may indeed be neceflary to a quarrel
some Minister—who strives to extend his influ
ence in every realm, byindireft measures ; but a
free country, as happily situated as France is, re
quires not those fhameful means to acquire a
great degree of prosperity. The French govern
ment, for the future, under the infpe<flion of the
nation, will not busy itfelf in crofling the objetfts
of other powers, to occasion quarrels. No—no
other intercjurfes will exist than those of cpm
merce and amity ; but to prefervethefe relations,
it will not beneceflary to keep,at a great expense
thole decorated Spies. Spies arethe necefla
ry valets of corrupted Ministers.—The Ministers
of a free people ought to be pure. Spies are ne
ver neceflary but in war—and as the spirit of Li
berty diffufes itfelf among nations—there will be
no more wars. Who occasion wars ? Ambassadors,
and a number of quilldrivers disguised into Con
suls, by their intrigues, and concufliong. It is
always by diireininating the feeds ofdifcord, that
they mcreafe their importance.
It has been laid, that they are neceflary in
countries where there are merchants or travel
lers of their nation. But now that every nation
has good and fafe laws—and the rights of ftrane
ers are every where a protection
is tooabunveto continue it any longer.
The above Utranjlatedfrm a French paper entitled, " Thi French
Patriot." By M. at Warviile.
LONDON, February 3.
The Commissioners of the National Debt
received the report of its liquidation on Sa
turday last at Mr. Pitt's, when it appeared
that their broker had bought as follows
Last Quarter
Capital. 1
4J.200
207,300
76,500
40,500
8,700
Consols
Reduced
Old S. Sea
New S. Sea
3 per C. 1751
Total. 372,200
Total Amount.
Capital.
2,162,fj0
1,238,300
9 1 3,900
665,300
204,800
Consols
Reduced
OldS. Sea
New S. Sea
3 per C. 17J1
Total 5,184,850 3*898,505 10 1
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THURSDAY, APRIL 15, 1790.
On the question whether tha House (hould resolve itfelf into a
committee of the whole on the report of theSecretaryof the Trea
ftiry, for the support of the public credit.-The ayes and noe.
being demanded, are as follows,
A Y f. S
Messrs. Alhe, Baldwin, Brown, Carrol, Clymer, Coles,Con
tec, Fttzlimom, Floyd, Gale, Gr.ffin, Hartley, Hathorne Heif-
Lcc - Mjd ' son . Matthews, Moore,
Muhlenberg, Page, Parker, Van Ranfellaer, Scott, Seney, Sin!
rnckfon, Smith, (M) Sumpter, Tucker,' White, Williarafon,
Wynkoop. 33. NAYS '
Meifrj. Ames, Benfon, Bland, Bloodworth, Boudinot Burke
Foiier, Gerry, G.lman, Goodhue, Grout, Hunt.ngton, Leonard!
I.ivermore, Partridge, Sherman, Sylvester, Sm.tb, (S. C ) Stur
grs, Thatcher, Trumbull, Vining, Wadlworth 23
MONDAY, APRIL 19.
Hon. John Steele ; member from the state of
North-Carolina appeared and took his feat this
day. —
The bill providing for the punifhmcnts of cer
tain crimes against the United States, having been
returned to the Senate withfundry amendments,
and 'some of those amendments having been a
inended by the Senate—the House this day con
curred with the Senatfe—which compleated the
bill preparatory to its enrolment
The report of the Secretary of the Treasury
on the memorial of the Baron- Steuben was read
a second time—this report is lengthy—the rea
ding and difcuflion employed the attention of the
House this day—the result was the adoption of a
motion introduced by Mr. Gerry in fnbftance
as follows, — That a couimitee be appointed to
report a bill, or resolutions in conformity to
the report of the Secretary of the Treasury the
committee appointed confills of Mr. Gerry, Mr.
Wadfworth, Mr. Vining, Mr. Lawrance and
Mr. Smith, (S. C.)
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, APRIL 20
A committee confiftingof Mr. Fitzfimons, Mr. Williamson Mr.
Smith (Maryland) Mr. Schureman and Mr. Sturges, wasappointed
to ascertain what further measures are necessary to be adopted to
effect afpeedy settlement of accounts between the United States
and individual States—and to report to the House.—»-
In committee of the whole—on the report of the Sectetary of
the Treafury—for the support of the public credit.
The proposition to fund two thirds of the debt at 6 per. cent.
per. annum—and to receive the other third in lands was read.
Mr. Gr.*RY after prcmifinft, that as the committee were on
the ground of non-assumption, they could not with propriety in
his opinion, engage to pay 6, 5 or even 4 percent, on J of the
debt, moved that 6 per cent, be struck nut in order to admit a
less rate of interest. This motion was supported bv Mr. Smith
(S. C.) and oppof d by Mr. Jackson, Mr. Fitpfimons, Mr. Madison,
and Mr. White ; the question being taken, the motion was loft
and the proposition agreed to.
The second alternative, which had been rejected, was now ac
ceded to, vi 7.
To have the whole sum funded at a yearly interest of 4 per
cent, irredeemable by any payment exceeding five dollars per an
num on account both of principal and interest ; and to reccive as
a compeafation for the reduction of interest fifteen dollars and
eighty cents, funded at the like interest and rate of redemption.—
The committee rose and the House adiourned.
427
Sums paid.
35,299 12 6
161,589 12 6
54,646 2 6
3i,49° IO o
6,774 2 6
289,800 o o
Sums paid.
1,618,761
938,156
687,513
501,065
153,008
9 4
7 °
1J o
16 3
2 6
PIT March if.
As the spring approaches the Indians tt}
commit depredatious : From good authority we
underrtand, that a it-w weeks ijuce a fniajl settle
ment, contorting of between twenty and thirty
persons, about fourteen miles on this fide Lime
itone, were entirely cut off, by a party of indians;
BOS T O N, Ai.nl 10.
SHIP BUILDING.
It is said, that orders have been received here
for building several large (hips. One merchant
we hear, is now in treaty with the Ship Carpen
ters, for building a Vellel of 900 tons. A Mer*
chant in Salem, we learn, is building a veilel of
1100 tons; and in Philadelphia, accounts fay,
tlieie are now twenty-two ships 011 the ltocks,
and all above 240 tons burthen.
NEW-YORK, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 21.
ExtraEl of a Letter from the Eajlward } dated April. 6, 1790
I never eonfidered the national government as being more than
half established by the nominal acceptance of the form—to take
from our newspapers the metaphor thev have used, it was an arch,
but to me the Key-done was wanting—the attual exercise of cer
tain powers to the exclusion of the states would be finding the
work till this takes place I cannot think the couhtry completely
fafe from the danget of difunionj and confequeut anarchy and
wretchedness.
I am no holder of ptiblic fecuritie.* of any kind, but I consi
der the aflumption of all our stats debts as so e(lnitial, that as an
individual I would rather pay a four-fold interest hro the nat -
onal government, than an half per cent, thro the medium
of the ftatc—becaufe the former may give us prote&ion, the lat
ter cannot. I confefs to you however* that I am still indulging
myfelf in the pleafingi Jea that voU will succeed in this point, in
the present feflfion—ahd if you do, 1 shall think that the govern
ment has done every thing its most sanguine friend?* ana every
honcft patriot could have wished—is you fail, there certainly is
reason to apprehend a longand hard contcft with the state govern
ments for powct.
A Correspondent fays that during the last ses
sion of Coiigrefs, many persons were nneafy at
the flow progress made in public bullnefs ; more
especially in refpeft to the revenue fyfteni—but
notwithllanding all the care and attention paid
to the fubjedt—fome mistakes took place, nnd
provision has been made to remedy them : That
more errors did not get incorporated in the fyi
tem, is more to be wondered at, than that any.
are found to be correrted, and this cannot be
justly attributed to any cause with propriety,'
but to that slowness ininveftigation, that caution
in decision, and that great attention which was
paid to every part of the business j and which
could not have been the cafe without a great ex
pense of time—but this expense is commonly the
least, and conduces to economy in the iff'ue.
The important fubjedt of funding has long
engaged the attention of thcHoufe ofßeprefen
tatives of the union : A greater concern carinot
poflibly come before them—innumerable difficul
ties obftrudl the progress of the bufineis—the no
velty of the work, the diversity of interests and
the relative ficuation ot the several ltates, all
conspire to render the ralk arduous, and point
out the propriety of making every decision the
refultofa calm and patient investigation of truth.
In this way a system may be formed which will
be found on trial to Hand the test.
A correspondent observes, the only way to
forn. ajuft judgment on the bufineft of
on is for the afliimptionifts to place tlieinfelves in
the situation of the non afTumptionifts—there can
be no doubt that Soutb-Carolina and Maflachufetts
would in that caie be as much opposed to the
measure as Virginia, Maryland &c. are.
A correfpodent would enquire, Whether the
controvei fy refpetfting the afl'umpcion of the state
debts is not a controversy between creditors and
debtor*—or rather between the non afTumptionifts
and the (peculators in state paper ?—and whe
ther in the firft cafe the plea of the delinquent
ltates can be called a plea of justice with refpetft
to those states which have paid their debts ? or
in the latter cafe, whether it is worth while to
risque the tranquility of the union to please the
speculators '—which would probably be the
cafe by afl'uming, unknown millions.—
Another correspondent observes, the peace
and tranquility which now pervade the United
States afford the most favourable opportunitv to
our civil rulers, for laying the foundations of the
government broad and deep.—lt may fafely be
said that there is not a government upon earth so
universally acceptable to the people as that of the
United States, —Now is the time then to establish
our credit, that " Key-Stone of the arch of our
political exiftence."—lf the present moment of
our salvation is fuffered to pass away, unimproved
we have every evil to anticipate, for the time may
come when the people " lutll not bear found deft*
rinc," in polities—and " are there not already
many falfe teachers abroad in the world
THE following persons are recommended to the free elrftora
of the city and county of New-York as worthy of their fuffrages
at the ensuing election, By many Elector*.
For Rcprefcntativc to Congrcfi, *
John Lawrance.
For Senators,
David Gcifton, Peter lefferts, Philip Van Cortlandt, Samuel
Jones. AJJimHy*
> John Watts, William W. Gilbert, Robert Randall, John
Campbell, James Watson, Nicholas Crugcr, Henry Will, Cor
nelius J. Bogert. John Pintard.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW-YORK.
Brig Liberty, Juerin, Halifax, at Sandy-Hook, 4 days.
Sloop Sally, Thomas, St. Johns, (N. B.) 7 days.The following R E PO R T was received 111 the
Houle of Reprefematives, on the 15th instant,
from the Secretary of State. •
r pHE Secretary of State to whom was referred by the house of
X Representatives, the letter of John H. Mitchell, reciting cer
tain propofdls for Supplying the United States with copper coinage,
has had the fame under according to iftitru&ions,
and begs leave to report thereon as follows :
The person who wiflnes to undertake the supply of a copper
coinage fcts forth that the superiority of hisapparatus and process
ior coining, enables him to furnifh a coinage, better and cheaper
than can be done by any country or person whatever : that his die?
are engraved by the firft artist in that line in Europe ; that his ap
paratus for striking the edge, at the fame blow with the faces, is
new and singularly ingenious: that he coins by a press on a new
principle, and worked by a fire engine more regularly than can be
done by hand ; that he will deliver any quantity of coin, of any
■fxzc and device, of pure unalloyed copper, wrapped in paper, and
packed in casks, ready for (hipping, at fourteen .pence terling the
pound.
The Secretary of State has before been apprifed,from other sources
of information,of the great improvements made by this undertaker
in sundry arts: he is acquainted with the artist invented the
xnethod ot striking the edge and both faces of the coin at one blow :
he has seen his procef<; and coins, and sent to the former Congrcfs
some specimens of them, with certain offers from him before he
entered into the ferviceof theprefent undertaker (which specimens
he takes the liberty of now submitting to the infpettion of the h • jfe,
as proofs of the superiority of this method of coinage in gold and
silver, as well as copper.)
He is therefore of opinion, that the undertaker, aided by that
artist, and by his own excellent machines, is truly in a condition
to furnifh com in a state of higher perfe£tion than has ever yet
teen ifTued by any nation : that perfettion in the engraving is a
mong the great Safeguards against counterfeits, because engravers
of the fn ft class are few, ana elevated, by their rank in their art,
far above the base and dangerous bufincfs of counterfeiting. That
the perfection of coins will indeed disappear, alter they are for
sometime worn among other pieces, and especially where the figures
are rather faintly relieved as on those of this artist ; yet their high
finifhing while new, is not thelefsa guard against counterfeits;
because these if carried to any extent, must be ushered into cir
culation new also, and consequently may be compared with gen
uine coins in the fame State : that therefore, whenever ihe United
States shall be disposed to have a coin of their own, it will be
delirable to aim at this kind of perfe&ion : that this cannot be
better dfetted than by availing themselves, if poflibleof the Ser
vices of the undertaker and ofthis artist, whose excellent methods
and machines are said to have abridged, as well as perfected the
operations of coinage. These operations, however, and their ex
pence being new and unknown here, he is unable to fay whether
the price proposed be reasonable or not. He is also uncertain
whether, inftcad of the larger copper coin, the Legiflaturc might
wot prefer a lighter one of billon, or mixed metal, as is prattiled
with convenience by several other nations, a fpecimeu of which
kind of coinage is submitted to their infpe&ion.
But the propositions under confederation, suppose that the work
is to be carricd on in a foreign country, and that the implements
ate to remain the property of the undertaker ; which conditions,
in his opinion, render them inadtniftible. for these reasons—
Coinage lis [peculiarly an attribute of sovereignty ; to transfer
its excrcife into another country, is to submit it to another fover
cign.
Its transportation across the Ocean, befidesthe ordinary dangers
of the sea, would expose it to afls of piracy by the crews to whom
it would be confided, as well as by others apprised of its pafldge.
In the time of war it would offer to the enterprizes of an enemy,
What has been emphatically called the sinews of war.
If the war were with the nation within whofc territory the
coinage is, the firft ast of war or reprisal might be to arrest this
operation, with the implements and materials, coined and uncoined,
to be ufr J attheir discretion.
The reputation and principles of the present undertaker are
Safeguards against the abuses oi a coinage carried on in a foreign
country, where no checks could be provided by the proper Sove
jeign, no regulations eftablifhed,oo police, no guard exerciCed ; in
short, none of the numerous cautions hitherto thought eflential at
every mint; but in hands less entitled to confidence, these will be
come dangers. We may be feeured indeed, by proper experi
ments as to the purity of the coin delivered us according to con
trast, but we cannot be Secured against that which, though less
pure, shall be struck in the genuine dye, and protected against the
vigilance of government till it ihall have entered into circulation.
We lose the opportunity of calling in and recoining the clipped
money in circulation, or we double our rilks by a double tran
sportation.
We lose in like .manner, the resource of coining up our houfc
hold plate in the instant of&reat distress.
We lose the means of forming artiftsto continue the works,when
the common accidents of mortality (hall have deprived us of those
who began them.
In fine, the carrying on the coinage in a foreign country, as far
as the Secretary knows, is without example ; and general example
is weighty authority.
He is therefore of opinion on the whole—
That a mint, whenever established* ihould be eftabliihed at
!home : that the fuperioritv, the merit, and means of the underta
ker will suggest him as the proper person to be engaged in the
rftabliftiment andcondudt of a mint, on a Scale, which, relinquiih
ing nothing in the perteftion of the coin, ihould be duly pro
portioned to our purposes.
And in the mean while he is of opinion, the present propoSals
Ihould be declined. THOMAS JEFFERSON.
April 14, 1790.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
N C E.
ASSEMBLY;.
January 28.
ON Monday, a deputaion from the militia of
the district of St. Rod, gave an account at
the bar, of the proceedings of the corps towards
the uncle and the brother of the two Aga[fes, con
demned to be executed for forging the notes of
Caijfe D'Efcompte.
VVe have already mentioned that M. Agafle,
the uncle, had been elecfted Prelident of the di
llricl, by the generous ardour of his fellow citi
zens, to eradicate theabfurd prejudice which at
tached the infamy of a capital puniihment to the
family of the criminal.
The battalion of St. Honore, in which he was
enrolled, directed their commander to allure him
in the name eft he whole body, that they felt his
affliction as their own ; and that far from consi
dering the crime of his nephews as fixing an in
delible itigma on their family, they from that
moment adopted their relations as brothers, to
whom they vowed friendship, union, alliftance,
and all the sentiments which their virtue me
rited, rendered Hill more interfiling bj thrir
misfortune.
The Brother they promoted to the rank of
Lieutenant of Grenadiers as a mark of their e
fteein and affecftion.
To the relation of tliefe particulars,the Preli
dent replied that they had displayed more firm
nefs and patriotism than the Afiembly, inasmuch
as, in correcting erroneous opinions, example was
superior to law.
It was lately proposed, that the community of
Paris ihould write circular letters, to request all
the Municipalities to unite the several bodies of
militia throughout the kingdom, under the com
mand of the Marquis de la Fayette. This pro
portion the Marquis resisted, with the moderati
on that has uniformly marked his condu<ft. "Let
us wait," said he, " the decilion of the National
Aflembly refpecling the National troops. Destin
ed' as they are for the defence of liberty, let us
take care that the honor of commanding them af
fords no resource or pretext for ambition. As
for me, when this article of our constitution comes
to be agitated, I shall contend, that no citizen
ought to command the National militia of more
than one department."
The Dire<ftors of the Caifle d'Efcompte have
offered sixty thousand livreS to the community of
Paris, for the relief of the poor.
We have received no account of any existing
or expeifted commotion in Paris, or in any other
part of the kingdom. The reports of commoti
ons, circulated here for some days past, may
therefore be considered as entirely destitute of
foundation.
The following are the precise words of the
National decree in favor of the Jews :
" The National Aflembly decrees that the Jews
known in France under name of Portugueze,
Spanish or Avignon JVsws (hall continue to enjoy
all the l ights of adtive citizens, as soon they £hall
have qualified themselves in the manner pre
scribed by the decrees of the Aflembly already
pafled."
This resolution met with great oppolition, but
was carried by a majority of 360 votes against
22J.
On Friday a report was read from the Commit
tee of Finance, proposing the coinage of two mil
lions of marcs of money de Bili.on, (copper
with a final! mixture of silver) —no person to be
obliged to receive more than lixlivresof this mo
ney in one payment.
A report was alforead from the fame Commit
tee, stating the reductions that may be made on
the several heads of public expenditure. It Ha
ted, that the wJiole might be reduced from 287 to
193 millions of livres, allowing 84 millions for
the expence of the army, and 18 for pensions.
1 he Aflembly entered immediately on the pro
posed reductions by fupprcfling tbeeftablifliments
tor breeding horfcs, which coil the public 974,000
livres a year, tended rather to injure than to im
prove the breed of horses.
On Saturday a decree was pafled, ordering the
taxes comprehended under the name ofimpofiti
onsdireft to be levied for the year 1790, accord
ing to the ancient form.
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59, to No. 187, Water-Street, near the
Fly-Market,
WHERE they negociate all kinds ofPUBLICX
SECURITIES— BILLS OF EXCHANGE. &c. as usual.
New-York, Aprils, 1790. 'tf.
ADVERTISEMENT.
BY order of the honorable John Slofs Hobart Esquire, one of
the Justices of the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State
ot New-York. Notice is hereby given to Paul Deyrell, now or
late of Long Island, an abfeonding debtor, and to all
others whom it may concern; that upon application and due
proof, made to the said Justice, pursuant to an ast of the legisla
ture, entitled '« an ast for relief against abfeonding and absent
debtors," palled the fourth day of April, j}B6, by a creditor of
the said Paul Deyrell, he the fa.d Justice has directed all his the
said Paul Deyrell's Estate, real and personal, within this State, to
be ftized; and that unless he shall discharge his debts within three
months after the publication of this notice ; all his Estate real and
personal will be fold for the payment and fatisfaftion of his cre
ditors. Dated at the city of New-York, the twenty-seventh day
ot March, in the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred
nd ninety. March 31. iaw 3 m
To be SOLD,
For CERTIFICATES, Or exchanged for LAND,
nPWE.VTY-Two acres of ground in the City of New-York
X fronting Great George-Street, Bowry-Lane, and Greenwich-
Lane. On the premises is a brick dwelling house containing ten
rooms; a smaller brick house with four robms; a house with a
brick front with two rooms : In each house is a Kitchen, and un
derthe whole four cellars; a never failing spring is near one of
the kilchens; a frame stable and a coach-house with llables
Fiom the dwelling house both the North and the East rivers are
plain to the view. Additional improvements have been made
this apnng, the ground has been laid out for pleasure as well as
for utility ; it is provided with variety of orchard and other fruit
part of the land has also been sown with timothy and clover'
To be fold for certificates of the national debt, which will be re'
ce.ved at the nominal value, Dollars at 8.. Or for good upland
even it covered with wood, provided it is situated on the follow'
ing rivers,or on creeks as far as navigable,communicating with the
fame, viz At the Potowmac above Alexandria,at James R.ver a
!>? VC i- i mon 1, " Car ° lma ' abouton = hundred milcsfroin
the sea (boie, on Santee Edifto or'Ponpon river or on Savannah
river. If not fold at p, ivate sale befor? the , s th of Mav tw 1,
then on the a trove terms be disposed of by Public Vendue Ir h,
merchants Coffee House.-For further Q f M r
Poeilhitz on the prenufes. A'cto-Yerk Aprdio, 1?go . '
428
January 31
PROPOSALS,
JOHN TRUMBULL
For publishing by subscription, '
TWO PRINTS
from ORIGINAL PICTURES painted by himfell- •'
REPRESENTING
, The DEATH of General WARREN
At the Battle of Bunker's-Hill; and '
Tile DEATH of General MONTGOMERY
In the Attack of Quebec. '
IN the Battle of Bunker's Hill, the following Portraits are intra
duccd, Amiricak. Bmtish.
Major General Wtrrcn, General Sir William Hoar
Putnam, S.r Hcvry Clinu* % %
Lieut. Col, John Sirta!i t
Major PitcairH, and
Lieut. Pitcairn.
In the Attack of Quebec, are fcen,
General Montgomery, Major Macphcrfm,
Colonel Tkompfon, Captain Cheifman'.
CONDITIONS of SUBSCRIPTION.
THE Prints will be engraved by two of the mojl eminent Anil
Europe. The hie will be 30 inches by 20. The price ttfMnfa.
three guineas for each print, one half to be paid at the time oj/Mnim
the remainder on the delivery of the Prints, which will be asfm vft
work (which is already confderably advanced) can pojjibly be ambleui
Subscriptions are received in America, only by Mr. Trumbull. All hi
fcriptm recerfti will befgned by htm, as wellasby Mr. PogglofLn.
don-, under whojc ivcaion the prints are engraving, and. uiUiitrti
hjhed.
These Prints are thefrjl of ajeries, in which it is probe [da rtbrt.
sent the mojl important events of the American revolution.
No period of the hijlory of man is more interring than that it uhiA
we have lived. The memory offcenes in which were laid tie fourM
tion s of that free government, which secures our national and inamU
happiness, mujl remain ever dear to us, and topojlerity ; and j lutmd
pride be in any cafe juflif able, Americans have a right to glory in km"r
given to the world an example, whose influence is rapidly fpreaiin-it
love of freedom through other nations, and every where ameliorate, tk
condition of men.
Toafftji in preserving the memory of the illujlricus event; vMhnc
mar ked thisjberiod of our country's glory, as well as oj the men uhe hut
been the mofl important a3ors in them, is the oijeS of this undcrtikn:
Hiflorians will do juflice to an cera so important; but to be read, tltlnl
guage in which they write, mujl be understood—the language ofPmHi,,
is uniterfal, and intelligible lit all nations, and every age.
As several years of his time, anda very con[idemblc expense, are nectf
fary to accomplish this undertaking, it would be an imprudentJacrifciit
the mere hope of reputation, to go more deeply into it, without a fnbtbi
lity oj ultimate success. That he may judge of the degree of this proba
bility, Mr. Trumbull, by the advice of hisfriends, proposes ihisjiifcrip*
tion, and flatters himfeif with a hope of meeting that patronage from hu
countrymen, which willjuflify his pursuing the object with ardor, mi
without which it is imbojjiblethat so expenfivea workjhould teconlmii.
TJiefubje&s proposed to be reprtfented, in addition to the tuo forego
ing, of Bunker's-Hill and Quebec,are
* The DECLAR ATION
* BATTLE at TRENTON,
* BATTLE of PRINCETON,
SURRENDER of General BURGOYNE,
TREATY with FRANCE,
BATTLE EUTAW SPRINGS,
* SURRENDER <tf YORK-TOWN,
TREATY of PEACE,
EVACUATION of NEW-YORK,
RESIGNATION of General WASHINGTON,
The ARCH at TRENTON:
INAUGURATION of the PRESIDENT of the UNITED
STATES. \}(
Each pi Sure will contain Portraits of the principal charaScrwto
were prejent at the scene reprejented. Those markedwith Stars, an cot
fiderably advanced—and the Prints ft cm the whole will be executed of
fame size, and by the mojl eminent engravers.
New-York, April 2, 1790,
New-York City Lottery.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, for the purpose of raifingSeven Thru
/and Five Hundred Pounds, agreable to an ACT of the Legjfii
turr of the State of New-York, patTed Bth February, 1790.
SCHEME.
> PRIZE of £-3000 £.3000
2 1000 2000
3 500 150®
10 200 200#
30 ,oo 3000
6° so 25°<»
12d 20 2400
180 , 0 1800
7950 4 3,800
166,54 Blanks, [ 2 5°°° Tickets, at 40s. each, £.50000
Subject to a dedu&ion of Fifteen per Cent.
THE object ofthis LOTTERY being to raise a part oftkefc™
advanced by tlie corporation for repairing and enlarging the Cf-
TY HALL, for the accommodation of CONGRESS, which"®' 5
so muLh honor to the Architect, as well as credit to the city T " c
managers presume that their fellow Citizens will cheerfully con
cur in piomoting thefale of Tickets, especially as the*'™ 0 '
this Lottery will relieve them from a tax, which must othtf v,: "
be laid to reimburse the corporation. , . .
The above SCHEME is calculated in a manner very be* 4 *
ir ven '" urers >'here not being two blanks to a prize.
f,r Lottery is intended to commence drawing on tte
Monday in Aucust next, or sooner if filled, of which tltnt Y
"^ lc f will be given. A lift of the fortunate numbers wilW ?
at the expiration of the drawing. .
ts are to be fold by the fubfenbers, who are appo ,n '
Managers by the Corporation.
Isaac Stoutenburch, Abraham H***" lKC>
PETER T. CURTENIUS, J OH " PtNT AR!> "'
Mew-York, 6th March, 1790. T - ,
William Taylor,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE.
No. 4, Bur i.ing-Slip, n o
Aflbrtment of EAST-INDIA GOOD^
Among which are the following Articles:
BOOK Muslins 8-4 6-4 5-4 || HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. j| Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefs,of various kinds,|| Caflas,
Chintzes, || Seersuckers,
Ginghams, |j Boglaporcs.
and a generous price given for Conti
V" nental, New-Hampshire, Maffachufects, and Rhode-Islam
•ecuritics, of every denomination, by c t
EBENEZER THAYER, jan. No. 59. Watcr-Str" ■
New-Yoik, April 17, 1790.
".wa
ib'.Mi;-
i? 'li