[No. CIII.j
THE TABLET
«'An uublemithed charaflcr gives great weight to the arguments of
a public fpcaker."
A S the main design of public speaking is to
ii. convince an audience of" the truth and impor
tance of what is spoken, men frequently Itrive
to effect this purpose by addingfome adventitious
force to the intrinsic merit of their speeches. It is
commonly supposed that the best method to make
forcible imprellions on a public assembly, is to
display an elegant, spirited elocution. Senti
ments may be decorated with such brilliant,ner
vous expressions ; arranged in a manner to
give such a fine harmony of cadence, and pro
nounced with such grace and energy, as to in
spire the mind with all the fafcination of music.
But the powers of persuasive oratory belong only
to a few. And even where a person poliefles
them in the fulleft extent, they will not always
procure, much less preserve a substantial influence.
A graceful elocution may retaiffits charms, and
excite applause, long after the orator hiinfelf has
ceased to be viewed with relpetft, and loit all his
weight of reputation. It is one thing to be amu
sed, and another to be convinced by the allure
ments of rhetoric. Men do not fufficicntly con
template that it is better to be believed than ad
mired.
The success that attended the l'peeches offome
of the antient orators is generally afci ibed to
their extraordinary powers of eloquence. This
is an opinion that deserves examination. Itfhould
not too hastily be concluded that those speakers
derived their influence, solely from the superior
excellence of their oratory. The popularity
which mere eloquence begets can have 110 long
duration, unless itis supported by avirtuouscha
rafter. Virtue renders an eloquent man irrefu
table. Themoft celebrated orators of antiquity,
it may be presumed, were not less diftinguiflied
for levcre morals, than for splendid eloquence.
They excited a general belief, by the uniform te
nor of their condurt, that they were actuated by
the mod generous sentiments of patriotism. It
cannot be doubted but the aftoni/hing effects of
their oratory were owing very much to the
honest zeal, which their acftions discovered for
the honor and welfare of their country.
Purity of principles, both in public and private
life, is the bed foundation on which to ere<ft a
public chara<fier. This will not perhaps attract
l'o much notice, or meet with so much flattery, as
eloquence ; but it will gain more real influence,
and inspire more confidence. Splendor of talents
may be gazed at, and admired, but unless they
are united with unblemilhed morals they will not
long be refpecfted. I hose whose opinions are
molt regarded,and whose advice the mod pursued,
are not men of the nioft captivating abilities.
(/i avity of temper and sobriety of manners will
lender moderate talents ufeful and refpeftable.
It niuft be confefled that the art of oratory is
highly worthy of cultivation, and an accomplished
speaker has an advantage over those whose elo
cution is imperfect and diiagreeable. But perfec
tion in eloquence should not make men indiffer
ent to solid attainments, and ufeful virtues. No
force of capacity, no glare of acquirements can
compenlate for a stain 011 tlie moral character. If
an eloquent man shews a levity of deportment,the
hearers may to be sure compliment him for speak
ing charmingly, but they will declare, he does
not hirufelf believe a word of what he is flying. If
his principles are fufpe<fted, or his manners licen
tious, his eloquence may still be applauded ; but
those who hear him, will express their fori ow,
that a man who can speak so well, Jliould ast so per
vet fly. In fhortjtlie world will learn 10 be guarded
against the seducing effetfts of his rhetoric ; and
it will afford much amusement, while it can pro
'luce 110 convi<ftion. Personal influence muftgive
man Jiis principal weight in public life; and
no one will long maintain personal influence,
Without a fair, unblemished character.
FROM THE CONNECTICUT COURANT.
Mefl'rs. Printers,
T Observe a correspondent of yours ivho appears
A in the Connecticut Courant of March 22, that
Icem& ro be a well meaning man, and judges pret
ty well so far as/he is well informed ; but I think
ieis illinformed, or at least uninformed, as to the
icception our Reprefenratives metwith when they
•'ft returned. I thought it was very agreeable;
pei haps it might be othervvife in his circle where
they were uninformed. I think Iliad it from good
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS m
>°" N FWXO, No. g, MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK
No. CIII.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL j 7go
authority that our Aflbmbly gave our Represen
tatives under the old Constitution the fame which
bHmr"°T V - C '- a ? d lfit isto ° m,,ch > charge the
blame where it,s due. I believe it would bet new
thing under the fun, atleaft in this State, for the
Afl^bi? rV3nt V° givC themselve s less than the
on rhp t ? aVC £^ m ;- As CO the salaries bellowed
on the Judges, I oeheve the people in New-Enjr
land in general think them too high—He should
observe that the Western and Southern people are
not so near upon a level as we are in New-Ene
?r t a l| eilC n a^ fe ,- h those hi S h appointments.
He should recollert if he ever knew k, that when
■ve firft began to oppose the Britons by arms, the
lern and Southern people complained of the
wages of our rank and file, and laid rather than
comply they would fight it out without us ; but
when they considered that our young men of fa
mily were much superior to their g.ogfters, who
would be likely to desert when the grog failed,
and which really happened, they contended
themselves with .aifing the officers wages.
As to Ins i egretting that Congress should assume
the state debts, 1 think he is as ill-informed a
bout th it matter as any other, 1 mall not set him
right by public information. Let him enquire,
anJ he will fi„d that it is bell for alj the Hates,
and til 15 in particular, that CY.,g ,f> aouldalfume
all the liar a debts, without ;.e is one ot them
that would have the state cheat their creditors,
and drive thein to complain to Congress, which
they certainly will do it the stare goes on as they
have done, about which 1 fhr.ll forbear to mention
particulars at the pjefent.
LQMDUM.
HOUSE of LORDS,
January r6.
The Lords resolved to proceed in the trial of
Warren Haltings, Esq. on Monday the lit of Fe
bruary.
Javuary 21.
This day his Mujelly went inftateto the House
of Peers, and opened the bufineli of the present
session of Parliament, by the following molt gra
cious speech from the throne :
My Lords and Gentlemen,
Since I last met you in Parliament, the contin
uance of the war on the Continent, aud the in
ternal condition of different parts of Europe, have
been productive of events which have engaged
my most serious attention.
While 1 fee, with a just concern, the interrup
tion of the tranquility of other countries, I have
at the fame time great fatisfaction in being able
to inform you, that I receive continual afluran
ces of the good disposition of all foreign powers
towards these kingdoms ; and I am persuaded
that you will entertain with me a deep and grate
ful sense of the favor of providence, in continu
ing to my fubjetfts the increasing advantages of
peace, and the uninterrupted enjoyment of those
invaluable blessings which they have so lono- de
rived from our excellent conltitution.
Gintlemcn o fth: Motife of Commons,
I have given directions that the estimates for
the present year should be laid before you, and I
rely on your readiness to grant such supplies as
the circuinftances of the several branches of the
public service may be found to require.
My Lords and Gentlemen,
The regulations prescribed by the act of the last
feflion of Parliament, relative to the corn trade,
not having been duly carried into effett in several
parts of the kingdom, there appeared reason to
apprehend that such an exportation of corn might
rake place, and such difficulty arise in the import
ation of foreign corn, as would have been pro
duttive of the most serious inconvenience to my
fubjetfts. Under these circumstances, itappeared
nbfolutely neceflary to take immediate and effec
tual measures for preventing the exportation, and
facilitating the importation of particular forts of
corn ; I therefore, by the advice of my Privy
Council, illued an order for that purpose, a copy
of which 1 have directed to be laid before you.
I have only further to desire, that you will con
tinue to apply yourselves to those objects which
may require your attention, with the fame zeal
for the pubjic service which has hitherto appear
ed in all your proceedings, and of which the ef
fects have been so happily manifefted by an in
crease of public revenue, the extension of the
commerce and raanufatftures of the country, and
the general of my people.
The waited upon his Majesty
with their address, which was as usual the echo
of the speech, his Majesty was gracioiifly pleased
to return the followinganfwer :
AN OLD FREEMAN
uus,
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN"
" My Lords,
I receive with great plcafurfe your dutiful
and loyal address.
" 1 lie firft objert of my wishes being the prof-
P . e^ U -y. ot '"X l' e ople, I cannot but express iny fa
tK fart ion at receiving fucli strong affbrances of
your disposition to apply your attention to thoftf
important objedts which I have recommended to
your consideration."
HOUSE or COMMONS,
! . January 22.
Mr. Wilberforce gave notice that he would, on
Monday, move the house to resolve itfelf into a
«««»«« of the whole house on the slave trade,
and that m such committee he would move for
the appointment of a felecfi committee to take ex
aminations above stairs:
Thursday a commiflion pasTed the Great Seal,
appointing Lord Kenyon, Speaker of the House of
1 eers, 111 the absence of the Lord Chancellor, in
rr r ° om . Earl Bathurfl, whose great age and
disorder in the eyes, woUld not permit him to
continue the office.
While his Majesty was this day going through
St. James Park in the state coach, a man drefl'ecl
111 icarlet, with an orange cockade, threw a (lone,
with intent, as is supposed, to llrike his Majesty,
ut which fortunately only struck the pannel of
the coach ; he was immediately seized and taken
to i lr. s office, where he underwent
an examination of four hours before Mr. Pitt,
Lord Chatham, the two Secretaries of State, and
Sn Sampson Wright, who committed him to pri
son. He proves to be the fame person who a
bout a fortnight since stuck up in the Court-yard,
at St. James s, a foolilh libel on his Majesty, fitrn
ed " John Frith, Lieut, of the firft Regiment of
Royals.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
SATURDAY; MARCH t 3 .
The following /hovld hne preceded Mr. Girry'sfpeech in ourhjl.
ATr. Am ls : The word irredeemable is made the fubjeftof ob
-IVX jection. It isfaid toconveyadifagrceableidea.and to tend to
excite popular prejudice against the debt, as it implies that the
public agrees to be saddled with a prrpetiial burden of debt. Irt
a land of ignorance, where the people are not in the habit, and
have not the capacity to reason, it may be proper to pay regard to
this objection. I have too much reverence for the sober thinking
people whom we reprelent, to believe, that the mere found of this
word will work mifchief, when their own enquiries willconvmce
them that the substance is not only unexceptionable, but highly be
ncncial. ® 7
Making the debt redeemable will not redeem if. It puts not a
farthing iri the creditor's pocket: Making it btedeemaile is no re
straint upon the present or probable capacity of the public to re
deem. It will not prolong the evil of a public debt a Angle day,
but rather the contrary. All the money that can be provided for
paying off the debt may (till be employed for the purpose, th'o the
niedeemable quality should remain.
1 he proposal to make the debt irredeemable is founded on the
supposed gradual reduition of interest. But until the reduaion
has actually hippened in a fhorler period, or in a greater degree
than is calculated, the paper will not bear a higher price than 100
per cent While the debt is at par, or below par, the creditors will
not relule to receive their money, the public has also the right
to redeem at the rate of one per cent, against their will. But the
value will not rifeto par while the rate of intercft keeps up : The
government will therefore have full employment for all itsfurpluj
revenue to buy up the paper at a discount, Surely, the govern
ment will not squander the public monev to redeem the debt at
per, when it is to be purchased at a discount. The latter is even
more advantageous to the creditors. Buying at the market price
in latt raises the price, and benefits those who do not fell. The
greater the discount, the more paper a given sum will buy, and take
out of the market. This not only raises the price, but increases
the security of the unfold part; In these three ways, there is full
excrcife forthe power of redemption, nor can it be supposed, that
the redeemable quality of the debt will increase the capacity of the
public to redeem, or fhotten the duration of the debt. The con.,
trary may be proved by attending to these facts.
The government in consideration of makingthedebt irredeema
ble is allowed 19 per cent. 100 dollars are to be lent; and 81 only
to be iunded, The aggregate of the sums saVed to the public by
this 19 per cent, linear 13 millions. The public is therefore paid
beforehand tor not ledecnvng; The right renounced is valuable
to the creditors, as it has been formerly shewn, but of no value to
the public. For the right to redeem is worth nothing, if the pub
lic has not the means to redeem j and if money can be found, it
appears that it can be better employed to buy up the debt than to
pay off. The capacity of the public is laid under no restraint. So
tar trom it, 13 millions will be already redeemed. Perhaps in a
dozen years the public would not pay off that amount; and if it
Ihould prove able, it will have 20 years according to the principles
ot the Report to buy ftodc on better terms than paying off. Those
who fay we can redeem fader, and will not be fatisfied with the
argument I have jull urged, will pleale to remember that by mak
ing the entire debt redeemable, we ihall have more to redeem
with an imaginary increase of the power will be an actual increase
ot the talk to be performed. But will any one soberly assert that
the public will probably have thc.connnand of more money than
■t can find perlons willing to accept tor their Hock; and unless
this is alfcrtcd, and really believed, I am sure the word irredeema
ble will not be ftruckout.
If then it is no burden to the public, is it any disadvantage to
the creditor ? If the debt is below par, the public will buy stock,
and will not pay off the capital. It at par, the creditor will not
thank government to do what he may get any individual, and inevery great town, to Jo. If the debt fliould fell for more than
par, it would be a loss to reccivc a less ium than the market price.
This indeed is not to be fpcedily expe&ed. In every view of the
fubk et, t!ic advantage to the creditor of making the debt redeem
able ;s merely delulivc.
Still it will be asked, if no good will flow from (hiking out this
word, will any reiukjrom retaining it ?
What is our objc& ? To establish public credit—and that is
found when the stock will fell at par The price ofrUock will de
pend upon the quantity offered to iale, fend the demand.
In order to raise the price we mud provide means .therefore to
increafc the demand ; our own market for (lock is a limited one—
our citizens poifefs litile adtive property, and that little is fully
employed in adlive purluits, and bears an higher interell than go
vernment proposes to give ; we Anuot ex peek that a poor market
will give credit to a great debt—we mull regard the great market
-the trading and monied world—to qualify the (lock tor the
great European market, ic mud be made irredeemable ; interell is
low in Europe and high in America, but even an higher interell
than fix per cent, would not compcufatc the European if the pro
perty purchased wants permanency. For if he has lix per cent,
ior one or two years only, the charge of inlurance agency, See.
■would reduce the net profit of his money below what he could get
for it in Europe, where it would be under his eye, and fubje6l to
his controul—you must give him a kind of estate, a freehold in
the funds—foi so long as he fears that you will borrow money and
pay off his debt, after he has received interell a year or two, he
•will not buy stock at par. He will not deal in property which
will yield a good intcreft, but of uncertain duration. It the debt
ihould pass at par, it will be easy to borrow money in Europe—
becaufethe price will be a proot of the good ilate of our credit,
and nothing but credit is wanting to enable us to borrow abroad.
In propoition as it may be eaf/ for us to borrow on better terms
than fix per cent, the buyers will have more cause to consider the
debt as an improper fubjett of their permanent arrangements.
The reasons already urged will evince that if there should beadif
inclination abroad to poiTcfs our (lock, it will be liable to a reduc
tion of value.
It is urged that the debt if it shall be fold to foreigners, will be
a drain of our wealth to foreign countries. This merits examina
tion ; I have already endeavored to Ihew that the debt if not fuit
cd to the foreign market by being made irredeemable will pass
below par.—A great discount will hold out the itrongeft induce
ments to foreigners to purchase—they will buy more and for less
discount will fully compensate the redemption, and thisdif
count will be so much lofsto the country. If then the drain of
our wealth to pay interest to foreigners, is an evil, this will aggra
vate the evil.
More will go out of the countiy, and less will be brought in to
pay for it ;we cannot help foreigners dealing in our funds. While
our debt has any value, thofc who can bed afford to run rifles *nll
deal in it. But if they will buy it, let us prevent their getting it
for a trifle ; let us make them pay for it. If they buy at par or
near it, it may bequeftioned whether their purchases will be in
jurious—baniih all doubts of your funds, and the sales will regu
late themfelvcs, when our citizens can better fparethe property to
buy flock then foreigners, they will buy it.—lt is bringing mat
ters to the test of experience whether the money can be employed
more ufcfully in that or some other way. If a man can get more
for his money than flock yields, it fecins to be th interest of the
nation to import money at 4 percent, and employ its own at a
higher rate. This is rather making a drain of foreign property in
to our own country than the contrary. It is not to be forgotten
that in the competition between American and loreign purchasers,
the former will constantly have the advantage—for the latter as has
be n before mentioned, will have agency and other charges to pay.
We may expett \herefore that the property paid by foreigners for
our stock will *ielda greater profit and be more ufefully employed
in the country theilock itfelf. It is true that interest will be
paid to 11 rangers-—but it is deducinlc from the principles which I
have endeavored to establish that the property paid by them for
stock will yield a profit more than fuflicient to pay it—in that cafe
as a nation we shall gain—lt is probable too that a great portion
of the interest m«ncy due to foreigners will be flopped in the
country to buy articles, as these will bear an advantage in Europe,
but money will be fubje£t to the deduction of inlurance and other
charges.
If ihc purchases of (lock by foreigners should however, Rill be
considered as injurious, let it be repeated that the motion in de
bate furnifhes no remedy tor the evil—for the greater the discount
the more they will purchafe.—Wc cannot prevent their buying—
all that remains foi us to do, is to oblige them to pay for what
they purchase by giving a fixed and high value to the debt. This
we aretold will swell the wealth of (lock-jobbers. Thole who
make a science of {peculation are gainers by the fluduating Hate of
funds. To banish speculation give as certain a value as possible to
your stock. My own belief is thatthefe things will be found ne
ccifarv to effect this objed, a national bank,an ample linking fund,
and considerable falcs ot ilock to foreigners. It is allowed that the
irredeemable quality of llock fits it for the last purpose, and as the
itation is well paid for it by the 19 per cent, on the capital,andwill
gain more as the Hock lhall fell for more—as it lays no restraint
upon the application of all its surplus revenue to extinguish the
<lebr, and will not incrcafe the supposed evil of falcs of stock to
foreigners, and as it will prove mutually beneficial to the nation
ancf its creditors, it is iny delire that the word irredeemable may
not be ftrickeu out.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17
Mr. Smith's (S. C.) Speech on the report of the Committee on themcmotial
of the People called Quakers.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) laid he lamented much that this fubjed had
been brought before theHoufe—that he had deprecated it from the
beginning because he forefaw that it would produce a very unplea
£mt difcuflion—that it was a fubjed of such nature as to excite the
alarms of the fouthe? 11 members who could not view, without
anxiety, any interference in it on the part of Congress. He re
marked, that as they were resolved into a committee of the whole
on the powers of Congress refpeding flavcry, and the Have-trade,
in confcqucuce of certain memorials from the people called Qua
kers and the Pennsylvania society for the abolition of flavcry, the
whole fubjed, as well as the contents of those memorials, was un
der conlideration : he should therefore enter into the business at
large and offer forae comments on the contents of the memorials.
The memorials from the Quakers contained, in his opinion, a
very indecent attack on the chara&erof those States which porfef
fed slaves ; it repiobated slavery as bringing down rcproach on the
4'outhern States, and expatiated on the detcftation due to the li
centious wickedness of the African trade, and the inhuman tyran
ny, and blood-guiltincfs inseparable from it. He could not but
consider it as calculated to fix a stigma of the blackest nature on
the chara&er of the State he had the honor toreprefent, and to hold
its citizens up to public view as men divifted of every principle of
honor and humanity. Confidcring it in that light, he felt it in
cumbent on him not only to refute those atrocious calumnies, but
to relent the improper language made use of by the memoriaiifts.
Before he entered into the difcuflion he begged to observe, that
when anvclafs of men deviated from their own religious princi
ples, and officiouAy came forward in a bufmefs with which they
had no concern, and attempted to di&ate to Congress, he could
not ascribe their conduct to any other cause, but to an intolerant
spirit of pcrfecution : this application came with the worst grac#
poflible from the Quakers, whoprofefled never to intermeddle in
politics, but to submit quietly to the laws of the country.
He had met with a publication which came out in the year
1 775 ( at a period when the affairs of America were in a very des
ponding fiiuation) entitled, " The ancient Testimony and Princi
ples of the Quakers." It let forth that their religious principles
retrained them from having any hand or connivance in up
and pulling down Kings and governments ; that this was
peculiar prerogative forcaufcs best known to himfelf ; that it was
not their buiinefs to be busy bodies above their Rations, but only
to pray tor the King and fufety ot their nation, that they might
live a quiet and peaceable life, under the government which God
was pleased tofetover them. If these were really their feiltimenis,
why did they not abide by them ? Why did they not leave that, 1
which they call God's work,to be managed by himfelf? Thofc prin
ciples (hould inftrtiS them to wait with patience and humility for
the event of all public measures, and to receive that event as thj
Divine Will : Their conduit on this occasion proved, that they
did not beiieve what they profeffed, or that they had not virtue
enough to pra&ife what they believed. Did they mean to rob the
Almighty of what they call his prerogative ? And were they not
partial ministers of their own acknowledged principles? It was
difficult to credit their pretended scruples; because, while they
were exclaiming against the Mammon of this world, they were
hunting after it with a itcp steady as time, and an appetite keen as
the grave.
The memorial from the Pennsylvania society, applied in express
terms for an emancipation of slaves, and the report ot the com
mittee appeared to hold out the idea that Congress might exercise
the power of emancipation after the year 1808; for it f«id that
Congress could not emancipate slaves prior to that period. He
remarked that either the power of manumiflion still remained with
the several States, or it was exclulively veiled in Congress ; for no
one would contend that such a power could be concurrent in the
several States and the United States. He then lhewed that the
State governments clearly retained all the rights of sovereignty
which they had before the establishment of the constitution, unlets
they were exclusively delegated to the United States ; and this
could onlyexift, where the conditution, granted in express terms
an cxcluhve authority to the union, or where it granted in one in
ltance an authoiity to the union, and in another prohibited the
States from exercising the like authority, or where it granted an
authority to the union, to which a similar authorit) 111 the States
would be repugnant.
He applied these principles to the cafe in ques
tion ; andalked, whether the conltitution had,
in express terms, veiled the Congress with the
power of nianumillion ; or whether it retrained
the States from exerciling that power ; or whe
ther there was any authority given to the union,
with which the exercise of this right by any State
would beinconfirtent ? If these questions were
answered in the negative, it followed that Con
gress had not an exclulive right to the power of
manumission. Had it a concurrent right with
the States ? No gentleman would allert it, because
the absurdity was obvious ; for a State regulation
011 the fubjedt might differ from a federal regu
lation, in which cafe one or the other mult give
way : as the laws of the United States were pa
ramount to those of the individual States, the fe
deral regulations would abrogate that of the
States, consequently the States would thus be di
verted of a power which it was evident they now
had and might exercise whenever they thought
proper. But admitting that Congress had au
thority to manumit the slaves in America, and
were disposed to exercise it, would the Southern
States acquiesce in such a measure without a strug
gle > Would the citizens of that country tamely
iuffer their property to be torn from them ?
Would even the citizens of the other States,
which did not poflefs thisproperty, desire to have
all the slaves let loose upon them ? Would not
such a ftepbe injurious even to the slaves them
selves ? It was well known that they were an in
dolent people, improvident, averse to labor ;
when emancipated, they would either starve or
plunder. Nothing was a ltronger proof of the
absurdity of emancipation than the fanciful
schemes which the friends to the measure had
suggested : one was to ship them off the country,
and colonize them in some foreign region ; this
plan admitted that it would be dangerous to re
tain them within the United States after they
were manumitted ; butfurely it would be incon
sistent with humanity to banish these people to a
remote country, and to expel them from their
native foil, and from places to which they had a
local attachment ; it would be no less repugnant
to the principles of freedom, not to allow "hem
to remain here, if they desired it : how could
they be called freemen, if they were against their
consent to be expelled the country ? Thus did the
advocates for emancipation acknowledge that the
blacks when liberated, ought not to remain here
to stain the blood of the whites by a, mixture of
the races.
(To be continued.)
SATURDAY, APRIL 3.
A memorial of Hannibal Wm. Dobbyn was read, praying
a final determination 011 his former memorial, refpefting a pur
chase of lands in the Western Territory.
The Speaker informed the House that the Printers were contin
ually preferring their accounts for payment for newspapers sup
plied the House : He wished the House to take some order on the
Subject.
Whereupon a committtee of three was appointed to examine
those accounts, and repoit what mode ihall be adopted rei'peaine
newspapers in future. s
The amendments of the Senate to the bill for promoting the
progrtfsof ufeful arts, were taken into consideration, and agreed to
by the House, excepting one, which related to the inverting the
Judges of the Supreme Court with a power to determine the com
pensation which persons shall receive fortheir invention;, &c.
A metfage was received from the President of the United States
by his Secretary, informing the House that he has aflented to the
ast for preventing the exportation of goods not duly infpefted
according to the laws of the i efpeftive States.
A meflage was received from the Senate informing the House
that the ast for accepting the ceflion of the claims of jj. Carolina'
to a certain diftrift of Western Territory—had received the assent
of the Prciidcnt of the United Scales.
Mr. Vining moved for leavr to bring in a bill for amending the
ast for establishing the Executive Department of the Secretary of
State, lo far as to enable the Secretary lo keep the foreign and do
meftic branches of bufinef's dillinft. and to appoint achi?f Clerk 10
each, See.
This mot ion introduced a dcfultory conversation. Some amend
ments were offered, and debated ; hut it was finally negatived
Mr. Sherman offered a rcfolution to the following purport':—
-410-
Tlut tlit Sccrct«y of Sui.e beautTiorif d to appoint an addit'n
Clerk, in bis olficc, atafalary of Bso dollars, wlncli was agreed t
»nd a committee appointed, to bring fin a bill purfuam thereto
I Several petitions were read,and laidcn the table. Adjjurned
MONDAY, APRIL y.
Sundry petitions were read, and referred to
the Heads of Departments.
In Committee of the whole. Mr. Liverniore
in the chair.
The bill for farther fufpendingcertaiu cla«ic*
in the Collection Law, was read—and taken into
confederation—Some amendments were proposed
but not adopted—and the bill paiied to be en'
grofled.
The bill allowing coinpenfation to John Ely
for his services as a Surgeon to the late army *a s '
read the second time, and debated. '
Mr. Seney observed, that Col. Ely had made
application to the late Congress, and he umler
ftood a report was brought in. He wilhed that
the report might be read.
Mr. Wadfworth said, that it was true the report
of a committee of the late Congress was brought
in ; but not adted upon—that report was miilaid
or loft—it never could be found—and there not
being a fufficient number of the States to form a
Congress at the subsequent, orlalt meeting, noth
ing was ever done.
Col. Bland, rose for enquiry : He wiflied to
know if the state of Connecticut had not fettled
with Col. Ely, as Commander of a Regiment in
the pay of that state ? If it has, he conceived it
would be a dangerous precedent to pay the gen.
tleman in both capacities—it would be paying
surgeons at a very exorbitant rate indeed.
Mr. Matthews and Mr. Burke were in favor of
a generous coinpenfation. They gave an account
of the extra services of this gentleman. The
former observed, that the enquiry was, whether
the services were neceflary to be performed—and
whether they were performed—that they were
neceflary is abundantly apparent—and such evi
denceexilts of their having been rendered, thatl
presume 110 gentleman has any doubt 011 his mind.
It therefore is of no consequence by whom they
are performed—their being performed, entitled
to cooipenfation.
A gentleman has enquired, Wlietherthere was
no other surgeon among the prisoners ? At the
time now referred to, there was 110 other—andat
a moment when the officers were very generally
sick with a fever, which at that time prevailed,
and his credit was so low that he could not pro
care ahorse to vifittliem, lie has walked 25 miles
a day.
The United States must have supported a sur
geon—and in paying this gentleman there will
be a laving, as it is notpropofed to allow rations.
Mr. White moved that the fpecified sum ftiould
be Itruck out, and leave the l'um to be allowed,
blank. He afterwards moved to strike out the
whole clause.
Mr. Matthews was opposed to the motion—also
Mr. Burke, Mr. Jackson, and Mr. Sherman, who
entered into a particular consideration of the cafe.
Mr. Hartley was opposed to the motion. The
merits and pretensions of the petitioner justly en
titled him to compensation.
Mr. Boudinot faidhe had 110 doubt of the ser
vices having been performed by Col. Ely ; but he
was oppoied to the bill—he did not think the
mode the propet one. If he has an account for
services for which he has received no compensa
tion, the regular way would be to apply to officers
already appointed to determine on luch accounts.
He was therefore for (h iking out the furn, and
filling up the blank with alefs sum than the full
pay of a surgeon—or else to refer his application
to the Auditor of the Treasury.
Mr. Wadfworth: The gentleman is for refer
ing to the Auditor, and yet has stated the reafoas
why he cannot get juitice from that quarter.
The Auditor can make no allowances on ac
counts but agreeable to existing laws oftlie United
States authorizing him. This was evidenced in
the cafe of Baron Glaubeck.
He then adverted to the particular services of
Col. Ely, andfaid,he hoped theclaufe wouldnot
be stricken out. If he is to be compensated, it
mult be in this way, by virtue of a special law for
the purpole.
Mr. Seneyfaidhe was opposed to any law wliich
was to suit the cafc of ail individual only. If a
general law, to reach the cafe of others, fimilar
-1 y circumstanced, fhouldbe brought forward, he
would not ebjecft to it.
Mr. Clymer was in favor of the motion for
striking out, and greatly doubted, he said, the
propriety of the bill altogether.
Mr. White said he doubted generally the au
thority ot the House to make provision for pay
ment of demands which existed during thfc late
C ongrefs—efpecially as there was fufficient time
for an application to them, and an application was
in fa (ft made in the present cafe.
i he motion tor striking out the clause was car
ried in rhe affirmative.
It was then voted that the blank be filled with
" 1 hirty Dollars pr. Month."
Mr. Stone proposed a clause entitling all other
officers, finiilarly circumstanced, to the like al
lowance. This was withdrawn, to admit a moreparticular amendment, which fliould secure tlio
lauie object, proposed by Mr. White.
Mr. Boudinot said he hoped the committee would
jiot fpendtime in debating the amendment, but
rife, for the purpose of rejecting the bill in the
Iloufe, that Col. Ely may apply with his account
to the proper officer, which is the Auditor of the
Treasury.
A conliderable debate on this last proposition
took place.
Mr. Matthews said no man can suppose that any
similar cafe can be cited, where 280 officers who
were prif'oners were without a Surgeon—where
a great proportion of them were sick, and had 110
humanity shewn them, by those who held them
prisoners.
Mr. Heiiler said, if there are not any cases of
a fiinilar nature existing, the clause can do no
harm—if there is, the door is opened to their ob
taining likejuftice.
This amendment wasreje&ed. The Commit
tee then rose, and reported the bill with amend
ments —which were agreed to by the House.
The queltion on the bill's passing tobe engrofs'd
was negatived— 24 to 22 —and so the bill was loft.
A bill for granting relief to certain officers of
the late army therein described, was read.
A meflage from the Senate was received, in
forming the House, that they recede from their
amendment to the bill for promoting the progrefi
of ufeful arts, which had been disagreed to, by the
House.
A meflage from the President of the United
States, with exemplifications of three adts palled
by the State of New-York, was received, viz.—
An Act, providing for the fafe keeping of prifon
ersofthe United States. An adt for ceding light
houfesto the United States—and an adl ratifying
the amendments to the Conftituiion.
The bill, ceding the Light House of New-York
to the United States, was referred to a feletl com
mittee.
In committee of the whole on the bill to provide
for the punishment of certain crimes againlk the
United States.
The clause which provides for the difle&ion of
the bodies of malefa&ors, it was moved should be
struck out.
This, it wasfaid, was wounding the feelings of
the living, and could do no good.
It was said in answer, that it was only follow
ing a mode adopted by some of the wisest nations.
It was making those who had injured society,
contribute to its advantage by furnifhing fubjedts
of experimental surgery. It was attended with
salutary effeifts,as it certainly encreafed the dread
of punishment, when it is contemplated with this
atttendant circumstance.
Mr. Stone was opposed to the clause : He said
it was contrary, he believed, to the pracfiicc of
the several States—that it was making punifh
jnent wear the appearance ofcruelty, which had
a tendency to harden the public mind.
Mr. Williamfon ltated a variety of arguments
in favor of the clause—and she wed the very great
and important improvements which had been
made in Surgery from experiment.
Mr. Page spoke againlt the clause. And Mr.
Smith and Mr. Sedgwick in favor of it. The com
mittee rose without deciding—and the house ad
journed.
TUESDAY, APRIL 6
The engrofled bill, further to suspend part of
the collection law, was read—the blank filled up,
and the bill pafled to be enaifled.
The bill for the relief of certain officers there
in described, was read the second time—and re
ferred to a committee of the whole House.
A memorial of Joseph Henderfon was read,
and referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
A report from the Secretary of the Treasury,
on the memorial of the Baron de Steuben was read.
In committee of the whole House ou the a6i
for the punishment of certain crimes against the
United States.—The motion for striking out the
clause refpedling the bodies of murderers being
delivered to surgeons after execution, for diflec
tion, was further debated—a number of gentle
men spake on each fide of the question—the af
firmative was supported by Mr- Page, Mr. Heif
ter, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Stone, Mr. Tucker, and
Mr. Clymer—the negative by Mr. Huntington,
Mr. Madison, Mr. Smith (S. C.) Mr. Sedgwick,
Mr. Williamfon, and Mr. Ames ; and the motion
being put, was negatived—and the clause retain
ed.
Several other motions for amendments were
negatived ; but the committee rose without fin
iftiing the difcullion of the bill.
Hon. Timothy Bloodworth, member from N.
Carolina appeared, produced his credentials and
took his feat. Adjourned.
NEW-YORK, APRIL 7.
APPOINTMENTS.
Hon. Rufus Putnam, Judge of the Western Territory, vice
Hon. Samuel H. Parsons, deceased.
Fro?/i a Neiubern (N. C.) paper.
By a letter from Hilllborough of the Bth inft.
we learn that the gveateft part of that town had
been destroy ed by fire a few days before.
The Hon. John Sto kes, Efq ; is eletfted one of
the Representatives of this State in Congress.
Laws of the United States.
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES :
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Monday the fourth
ot January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
An ACT to accept a Cession of the Claims of the
State of North Carolina, to a certain Diftridt of
Western Territory.
A DEED of Ccflion having been executed, and in the Senate
* 1 offered for acceptance to the United States, of the Claims of.
the State of North-Carolina, to a diftritt of Territory therein dcf
cribed; which Deed is in the words following, viz.
TO ALL WHO SHALL SEE THESE PRESENTS,
WE the under written Samuel Johnston and Benjamin
Hawki n s, Senators in the Congress of the United States of
America, duly and constitutionally chosen by the Legisla
ture of the (late of North-Carolina, fend greeting.
WHEREAS the General Assembly of the Jlate of North-Carolina, on
Me day of December, in the year of our Lord one
thousand seven hundred and eighty nine, pajfed an ast, entituled " An
Ast, for the purpose of ceding to the United States of America, certain
ivejlern lands therein described," in the words following, viz.
WHEREAS the United States in Congress assembled, have re
peatedly and carneftly recommended to therefpeftive State? in the
Union,claiming or owning vacant western territory, to make cefli
ons of part of the fame, as a further means, as well of hastening the
extinguilhment ofthe debts, as of eftablifhmg the harmony ofthe
United States; and the inhabitants of the faidWeftern terntory;being
also desirous that such ceflion (hould bt made, in order to obtain a
more ample protection than they have heretofore received : Now
this State,being ever desirous of doing ample juftice'to the public cre
ditors, as well as the establishing the harmony ofthe United States,
and complying with the reasonable desires of her citizens; Be it
enafled by the General Assembly ofthe State of North-Carulina, and it is
hereby enattedby the authority ofthe fame, That the Senators ot this
State, in the Congress of the United States, or one of the Senators
and any two of the Representatives of this State, in the Congress
of the United States, are hereby authorised, impowered and re
quired to execute a deed or deeds 011 the part and behalf of this
State, conveying to the United States of America, all right, title
and claim which this State has to the sovereignty and territory of
the lands situated within the chartered limits of this State, welt of
a line beginning on the extreme height of the Stone Mountain, at
the place wh«re the Virginia line interfefts it; running thence
along the extreme height ot thefaid mountain, to the place where
Wataugo River breaks through it; theuce a direst course to the
top of the Yellow Mountain, where Bright's road erodes the fame;
thence along the ridge of said mountain, between the waters of
Doe River and the waters of Rock Creek, to the place where the
road erodes the Iron Mountain; from thcnce along the extreme
height of said mountain, to where Nolichucky River runs through
the fame ; thence to the top of the Bald Mountain ; thcnce along
the extreme height of the (aid mouutain, to the Painted Rock, on
French Broad River; thcnce along the highest ridge of the said
mountain, to the place where it is called the great Iron or Smoaky
Mountain ; thence along the extreme height of the said mountain,
to the place where it is called Unicoy or Unaka Mountain, be
tween the Indian towns of Cowec and Old-Chota ; thence along
the main ridge of the said mountain, to the southern boundary of
this State, upon the following exprels conditions and fubjeft there
to, that is to fay: Firfl, That neither the lands nor inhabitants
westward of the said mountain shall be estimated after the ceflion
made by virtue of this ast lhall be accepted, in the ascertaining
the proportion of this State with the United States, in the com
mon expence occasioned by the late war. Secondly, That the
lands laid off, or directed to be laid off by any ast or acts of the
General Assembly of this State, for the officers and soldiers there
of, their heirs and afligns refpeftively, (hall be and enure to the
use and benefit of the said officers, their heirs and afligns respec
tively ; and if the bounds of the said lands already prescribed for
the officers and soldiers of the continental line of this State, shall
not contain a fufficient quantity of lands fit for cultivat ion, to make
good the ftveral provisions intended by law, that such officer or
soldier, or his aflignee, who (hall fall fliort of his allotment or
proportion, after all the lands fit for cultivation within the said
bounds are appropriated, be permitted to take his quota, or such
part thereof as may be deficient, in any other part ot the said ter
ritory intended to be ceded by virtue ofthis ast, not already ap
propriated. And where entries have been made agreeable tojlaw,
and titles under them not perfected by grantor otherwise, then,
and in that cafe the Governor, forthe time being, shall, and he
is hereby required to perfect, from time to time, such titles, in
such manner as if this ast had never been passed. And that all
entries pade by, or grants made to all and e*ery pcrfon or per
sons whatsoever, agreeable to law, and within the limits hereby
intended to be ceded to the United States, fhallhave the fame force
and effc it as if such ceflion had not been made ; and that all and every
right of occupancy and pre-emption, and every other right reserv
ed by any ast or acts to persons fettled on, and occupying lands
within the limits of the lands hereby intended to be ceded as a
forefaid, (hall continue to be in full force, in the fame manner as
if the ceflion had not been made, and as conditions upon which the
said lands aFe ceded to the United States ; and further, it (hall be
undcrllood,that if any person or persons (hall have,by virtue of the
ast, rntituled, 41 An ast for opening the Land-Office for the re
demption of specie and other certificates, and difcha-rging the ar
rears due to the army," passed in the year one thousand seven hun
died and eighty-three, made his or their entry in theoffice usually
called John Armstrong's office, and located the fame to any spot
or piece of ground, on which any other person or persons (hall
have previously located any entry or entries, that then, and in that
cafe, the person or persons having made such entry or entries, or
their aflignee oraflignees,(hall have leave, and be at full liberty to re
move the location of such entry or entries, to any lands 011 which no
entry has been specially located, or on any vacant lands included
within the limits of the lands hereby intended to be ceded : Provid
ed, That nothing herein contained lhall extend, or beconflrued to
extend to the making good any entry or entries, or any grant or
grants heretofore declared void, by any ast or acts of the General
Assembly of this State. Thirdly, That all the lands intended to
be ceded by virtue of this ast to the United States of America,
and not appropriated as before mentioned, shall be conlidcred as
a common fund for the use and benefit of the United States of
America, North-Carolina inclusive, according to their refpeftive
and usual proportion inthegeneral charge and expenditure,and (hall
be faithful ly disposed of for that purpose, and fop no other use or
purpose whatever. Fourthly, That the territory so ceded, (hall be
hid out and formed into a State or States, containing a foitable ex
-411-
PUBLISHED
tent of territory, the inhabitants of which (ball enjoy all the p
vileges, benefits and advantages let forth in the ordinance of the
late Congress, for the government ot the Western Territory of the
United Slates, that is to fay, whenever the Congress of the Uni
ted States (hall cause to be officially tranfmiUrd to the executive
authority of this State, an authenticated copy of the ad to l»e paf
led by the Congress of the United States, accepting the ceflion of
ten ltory made by virtue of this art, under the cxprcfs conditions
hereby (pccilicd; the laid Congress (bail at the lame time ailume
the government of the said ceded territory, which they iball exe
cute in a manner similar to that which they support in the territory
weft ot the Ohio ; lhdll protest the inhabitants against enemies,
and (bail never bar or deprive them of any privileges which tie
people in the territory weftof the Ohio enjoy : Provided always
That no regulations made or to be made by Congress, (ball trnd to
emancipate slaves. Fifthly , That the inhabitants ot the laid cc*.
[ ded territory, (ball be liable to pay iucli sums of money, as
may, ftom taking their census, be their juR proportion o*
the debt of the United States, and the arrears of the rcauiiitioi a
ol Congress on this State. Sixthly, That all persons indebteu
to this State, residing in the territory intended to be ccdcd by
virtue of this ast, (ball be held and deemed liable to pay fiich
debt or debts in the fame manner, and under the fame penal
ty or penalties as if this ast had never palLd. Seventhly, That if
the Congress of the United States, do not accept the cellion hereby
intended to be made in due form, and give official notice thereof
to the executive of this State, within eighteen months from the
palling of this ast, then this ast fnall be of no force or effect what
soever. Eighthly, That the laws in force and ufc in the State of
North-Carolin a,at the time of palling of this aft,(ball be.and conti«
nue in full force within the territory herebycedcd, until the fame
(ball be repealed, or otherwise altered by the legiflativc authority
ot the laid territory. Ninthly, That the lands of non-resident pro
prietors within the said ceded territory, (ball not be taxed higher
than the lands of rcfidents. Teuthh, That this ast (ball not pre
vent the people now residing fonthof French Broad, between the
rivers TenelTeeand Big Pidgeon, from entering their pre-empti
ons in that tract, (bould an office be opened for that purpose un
der an ast of the present General Aflfembly. And be it further a
acled by the authority aforcfiid, That the sovereignty and jurifdiftion
of this State in, and over the territory aforefaid, and all and (very
the inhabitants thereof lball be, and remain the fame in all rc
fpefts, until the Congrefsofthe United States (ball accept thecef
non to be made by virtue of this ast, as if this ast had never pas
sed.
Read three times, and ratified in General Assembly, the day
of December, A. D. 1789.
CHAs. JOHNSON, Sfi. Sen.
S. CABARRUS. Sp. 11. C.
Now therefore Know Ye, That we, Samuel Joh n sto.- ,
and Benjamin Hawkins, Senators aforcfaid, by virtue of the
power and authority committed to us by the said ast, and in the
name, and for, and on behalf of the said State, do, by these pre
sents convey, alfign, transfer, and set over unto the United States
of Americ a, for the benefit of the said States, North-Carolina in
clusive, all right, title, and claim which the said State hath to the
sovereignty and territory of the lands situated within the charter
ed limits of the said State ; as bounded and described in the above
recited ast of the General Assembly, to, and for the uses and pur*
poses, and on the conditions mentioned in thefaid act.
In witnels whercot, wc have hereunto fubferibed our names,
and affixed our seals, in the Senate Chamber, at New-
York, this twenty.fifth day of February, in the year ofour
Lord, one thousand feveu hundred and ninety, and in the
fourteenth year of the Independence of the United States
of America,
SAM: JOHNSTON,
BENJAMIN HAWKINS,
Signed, Jealed, and delivered > SAM . . _
n the brrfence of J aAM .A. OTIS.
Be it enaaea by the Senate and Houje of Reprefntatiies of the United
States of America in Congrefi aJJimbUd, That the said Deed be, and
the fame it hereby jeeepted.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the Hovfe of Reprefevtatwes.
JOHN ADAMS, VUe-Prcftient of the United States.
and Pr'jident of the Semite.
Approved, April the second, 1790.
CEORGfc WASHINGTON, Prefidentofthe United States.
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary of State
CONGRESS OF THE UNI TED STATES,
At the Sccond Seflion,
Began and held at the City of New York, on Mon
day the fourth of January one thousand seven
hundred and ninety.
An ACT to prevent the exportation of Goods not duly
infpeCled according to the Laws of the several States.
BE it enattedby the Senate and Hbufe of Reprefent
a five 1 of the United States of America, in Con•
grefs assembled, That the Collectors and other
officers of the cuftoins in the several Ports of the
United States, be, and they are hereby directed
to pay due regard to the infpe<flion Laws of the
States in which they may respectively a<fi, in
such manner, that 110 veflel having on board goods
liable to infpe<slion, shall be cleared out until the
Master or other proper person shall have produ
ced such certificate that all such goods have been
duly infpedted as the Laws of the refpeiftive States
do, or may require to be produced to colleiftors
or other officers of the customs*
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBURC,
Speaker oj the House of Reprejentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vicc-Prefid(nt of the United States,
and Prejideni oj the Senate.
Approved April second, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President ojthe United Stales,
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary oj State
NEW-YORK, APRIL 7, 1790.
Extract of a letter jrom Norfolk, Virginia, March 20.
Fifteen vefTels, consigned to one house, have arrived here, with
in a few days, for ?r?in.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW YORK.
Ship Merchant, Bunker, Havre de Grace, 44 days.
Packet General Waftiington, Dufcloin, St. Maloes, 59.
Ship Anatolia, Leghorn. 58 days.
Brig Atalanta, Moore, Lisbon, 31 days.
Brig Bon Jesus de la Nova, Antonia, Oporto, 52 days.
Brig Amboy, Hammond, Cape Francois.
Schoonet Anna Bella, 'fhurfton, Montego Bay, 27 days.
Sloop Sally, Clarke, Aux Cayes, 18 days.
Sloop New-York and Philadelphia Packet, Bird, Phil:
Sloop Betsey, ditto.
Sloop Lydia, Morris, Gaudaloupe, 11 davs.
Sloop Friendship, Burham, Savanna, 9 days,
• ■ Sloop Charles, White, Norfolk, 2 days.
Sloop Mary, Salter, St. Kitts. 14 days.
(L. S.)
(L. S.)PREMIUMS
Propoj'eJ ly the Philadelphia Society, for promoting
Agriculture,for the year 1790.
[Continued from our laft.J
X.
FOR the best: comparative experiments on the
culture of wheat, by sowing it in the common
broad-cad way ; by drilling it, and by fettingthe
grain, with a machine, equi-diftant ; the quanti
ties of feed and produce proportioned to the
ground, being noticed, —a gold medal ; for the
fecondbeft, —a silver medal. The account to be
produced by the tenth of January, 1791.
XI.
It is a generally received opinion, that horses
in a team travel much fafter than oxen ; yet some
European writers on husbandry mention nianyin
llances, in which it appeared, not only that oxen
would plough as much ground as an equal num
ber of horses, but also travel as f.ill with a loaded
carriage ; particularly when, instead of yokes and
bows, they were geared in horse harness, with
such variations as were neceflary to adapt it to
their different lhape. Toafcertain the powersof
oxen in these particulars, and the expence of
maintaining them, thefociety deem matters of ve
ry gieat moment; and are therefore induced to
offer a gold medal forthebeftfet of experiments,
undertaken with that view ; and for the next best
a silver medal. In relating.tliefe experiments, it
will be proper to describe the age and size of the
oxen, their plight,the kinds and quantities oftheir
food, the occasions, manner, and expence of /hoe
ing them ; in travelling, the kinds of carriages
used, and weight of their loads, and seasons of the
year, and the length and quality of the roads :
And, in ploughing, the size and fafhion of the
plough, the quality of the foil, the depth of the
furrows, and the quantities ploughed : And, in
every operation, the time expended, and num
ber and forts of hands employed in performing
it; with many other circumstances which may
more fully elucidate the subject. These experi
ments will enable the ellayitt to determine what
will be the bed form and conftruiftion of yokes
and bows, and what of ox-harness, to enable oxen
with the best carriage of their bodies and heads,
the most ease, and quickest step, to draw thehea
vieft loads, a description of cach ofwhi h fort of
fears, explained on mechanical principles, must
e subjoined to the account of experiments: To
be produced by the firftday of January, 1791.
XII.
For tlie best methods, within the power of com
mon farmers, of recovering old gullied fields to
an hearty Itate, and such uniformity, orevennefs
of furface, as will again render them fit for til
lage ; or where the gullies are so deep and nume
rous as to render such recovery iinpracticable,
for the belt method of improving them, by plant
ing trees, or otherwise, so as to yield the impro
ver a reasonable profit for his expences therein,
founded on experiment, —a gold medal ; and for
the next best, —silver medal. To be produced by
the firft of January, 1791.
XIII.
For the greatelt quantity, not less than five
hundred pounds weight, of clieefe, made 011 one
farm in any of thefeltates, equal in riclinefsand
flavor, to the Gloucelterfhire cheese, hitherto
usually imported from England, and which shall
be produced to the society by the ill day of Ja
nuary 1791, —a gold medal; and for the next
greatelt quantity, not less than two hundred and
fifty pounds weight, of like quality,—a silver
medal. XIV.
For the bed method, deduced from experience,
of railing the American white thorn from the
feed, for hedges, and the greatelt number of
plants raised in a space not less than half an acre,
a gold medal ; for the second belt, —a filvei me
dal. To be produced by the firft of December,
17 9°
The society believjNg that the culture of hemp
on fonie of the low rich lands in the neighborhood
of this city, may be attempted with advantage,
do hereby offer a gold medal for the greatelt quan
tity of hemp railed within ten miles of: he city of
Philadelphia. The quantity not to be less than
three tons ; for the second greatelt quantity,—a
silver medal. The claim to be made by the firit
of December, 1791.
* # * It will be left to the choice of those fuc
cefsful candidates for prizes, who may be entitled
to the plate or gold medals, to receive the fame
either in plate or medals, or the equivalent there
of in money.
The claim of every candidate for a premium is
to be accompanied with, and supported by, cer
tificates of refpeiftable persons, of competent
knowledge of the fubjed:. And it is required,
that the matters, for which premiums are offered,
be delivered in without their names, or any inti
ination to whom they belong ; that each particu
lar thing be marked in what manner the claim
ant thinks fit; fnch claimant fending with it a
paper sealed up, having on the oufide a corre
sponding mark, and on the inside the claimant's
name and address.
Refpetting experiments on the prodncfts of
land, tircumftanccs of tlie previous and fubfe
XV
quent slate of the ground, particular culture giv
ven, general itate of the weathei, &c. will be pro
per to be iu the account exhibited. Indeed in all
experiments and reports of fatfts, it will be well
to particularize the circumstances attending them.
It is recommended that reasoning be not mixed
with the fads ; after stating the latter, the former
may be added, and will be acceptable.
Although the society reserve to theinfelves the
power of giving, in every cafe, either one or the
otherfof the prizes, (or premiums) as the perform
ance fliall beadjudged todeferve, or of withhold
ing both, if there be no merit, yet the candidates
may be aflured, that the society will alwaysjudge
liberally of their several claims.
Publijh-d by Order of the Society,
SAMUEL POWEL GRIKFITTS, Secretary.
Philadelphia, March <)th, x 790.
QUEBEC, December 28
Agriculture Society.
Minute of the Special Meeting of the Directors
of the Quebec Branch, 21ft December, 1789.
" Ordered, That the Process in preparing Seed
" Wheat, as communicated by Mr. Carrier, be pub
« HJhed in the Quebec Gazette, and in the Herald."
FFOM the experiments madebyMonf. J. Car
tier of the parilh of St. Antoine on Chamblee
River, laid before the Directors of this branch,
it appears, that SMUT in WHEAT, may be effec
tually prevented by using the following precau
tion.
Let the WHEAT intended for SEED be thrice
thoroughly walhed, and let the water drain from
it after the third washing; thenfteepit eighteen
hours in brine ltrong enough to float an egg, and
spread it on the floor to let the brine run off; but
whillt the WHEAT is yet nioilt, let quick lime
be equally lifted over it. ftirringic very well with
a Ihovel, and continue lifting on more lime until
the WHEAT is equally dusted with it, in the pro
portion of half a gallon for every bulhel of
WHEAT. By Itirring it well with a Ihovel, the
WHEAT will soon be dry and fit for sowing.
Some exceeding smutty IVheat, or what the in
habitants call bled charbonne, was prepared by Mr.
Cartier in the manner above direcfted and imme
diately sown ; the sample sent to the Directors of
this Branch, as the produce of that very smutty
Wheat was good, clean well-filled grain.
By Order of the Directors,
HUGH FINLAY, Sec'ry.
BOSTON, March 27, 1790
FROM FRANCE.
" Had we nothing to oppofebut the army, we
might soon bring these abje(ft mercenaries into
non-exiltence ; but the difdainful high clergy and
the enraged aristocracy are composed of so many
dangerous men, that by their duplicity and ma
chinations it is poflible they may turn the fcaleiu
favour of the former government : Beiides, we
are surrounded with powerful princes, who we
cannot expedt will long continue idle fpe&ators.
The French WASHINGTON, the young hero
who fought several battles in the course of your
glorious revolution has been chosen Generalillimo
of all the militia of the kingdom by the universal
voice of the militia at large. Each province
strove which fnould be foremoft in confiding its
liberties in the hands of the truly noble and illus
trious the Marquis de la FAYETTE. How fortu
nate were you to have the federal government ef
tabliihed without the loss of a single man ; this
Ihows the charafteriitick wisdom of those enlight
ened men who were the promoters of that happy
event. Since the English language and American
Liberty are come in falhion, the libraries of our
Literati are crouded with books on politicks, con
stitutions, &c. but I mult sincerely confefs that
one of your home productions seems to have the
preference from the perspicuity of the ideas and
the force of the style. Publius has gained a de
served applause, and is ranked among those
whose works will reach posterity. Many of the
belt families within my reach are preparing to
cross the Atlantick next spring, and should the
troubles continue much longer, the emigrations
mult become of consequence to your riling em-
THE ARTS,
Nothing gives us more fatisfadtion, than to note
the happy advancement of the Arts and Sciences
in our country. Atprefent we have the peculiar
pleasure of announcing to the citizens of Ameri
ca, the completion, by Mr. Gullager, of an e
legant bust of THE 1 RESIDENT of the United
States, in I'laifter of Paris, as lafge as the life
in which the beholder, at firft view, recognizes
the Great Deliverer of our Country. The Con
noifleurs who have visited Mr. Gull a ger's room,
to examine this beautiful piece of statuary, are
unanimous in pronouncing its merits, and the
merits of the ingenious artilt who has produced it.
So anxious are even the countrymen for the as
sumption of the State debts by Congress, that one
having read in the papers its being effected, cried
out in great extafy, " joy to thee my friend—l
wish you joy," "of what?" alked the other,
" Why thatCongrefs has confi/MerftheSrate debts."
412
American hemp.
The indefagi table exertions of John R et>( ] £<- d
and others, in promoting the growth of tine
valuable article of commerce, Hemp, merit much
from their country as from the spirit for cul
tivating this commodity which now reigns, there
is not a doubt, but in a few years, a favin'a M ;|j
be made of £.7o,oooayear to the commonwealth
in this single article. Tuesday fen'neight, a load'
raised by Mr. Read, was brought to town from
Roxbury, and pronounced by judges, to'be far
fuperiourto the bell RufliaHeinp. And on Satur
day last, a load, of equal quality, raise.l by Major
Rugglts of Roxbury, was brought to town ; and
it is with pleasure we can inform the public from
the bed authority, that Hemp raised in this State
is continually bringing to market. [A bounty ol*
12s. per cwt. is given by this Commonwealth for
all merchantable Hemp railed within the fame
as also a bounty on Duck, Sail Cloth and Twine
which is extended to January, 1792.]
AMERICAN CLASS.
It is with pleasure we learn that theglafs Ma.
nufadtory in Maryland, is thriving fait. The
glass lately man ufaftured there is equal in quality
to that imported from Europe : when we con.
fider the great expence and labour attending an
undertaking of this kind, the advantage and be.
nefits resulting from the eltablifhment of Manu
factories in America, we cannot but hope that the
encouragement of both public and individuals
will be equally great. —We learn that Looking
GlafTes will be manufactured atthefe worksinthe
Spring.
Just publiflied, by
CAREY, STEWART, AND COMPANY,
No. 111, of the Vllth volume of
The American MUSEUM,
UNIVERSAL MAGAZINE,
And to be fold by THOMAS ALLEN, No. iJiQuben-Smeet,
where iubfcripiions are received, at 2 Dol. and half pr. an.
CHARACTER OF THE MUSEUM.
,; TT has been uniformly conduced with taste, attention, and pto
"J. " priety. A more ufeful literary plan has nevrrbcen underta
ken in America, or one more deJerving of public encourage
" ment." His Excellency General IVaJhington.
" It has been conduced in a manner highly deferring of pub
„ lie encouragement." Hon. John Diikinfm.
" It far exceeds, in my opinion, every attempt of the kind,
" which, from any other American press ever came to my hands."
His Excellency Governor Livingjlen.
" I concur withthofe refpe&able characters, (General Walking
" ton, Hon. John Dickinfon, and Governor Livingfton) in iheir
" high opinion of the work, and of its execution." HisExcellea
cy Governor Randolph.
" The Museum is calculated to disseminate literary, political,
" historical, agricultural, and other valuable information, in a
" very advantageous manner, and to a great extent, and more ef
" pecially to preserve interesting documents from oblivion."
Rev. Dr. Stiles—Rev. Dr. Buight—Judge Hopkinftm—Bifhop
White—Rev. Dr. Euing—Rev. Dr. Magaw—Tench Ccxe, Esq.
Rev. Dr. Andrews— Judge Law—Judge Dyer—Judge Sherman-
Judge Pitkin.
New-York City Lottery.
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, for the purpose of railing SeveiThou
fund Five Hundred Pounds, agreable to an ACT of the Legifli
ture of the State of New-York, palled Bth February, 1790.
s c
i PRIZE of
3
to
3°
5°
12a
18a
796®
166*4 Blank!, ( 25«0OTickets, at 40s. each, £.50000
Subjett to a deduction of Fifteen per Cent.
THEobjefl of this LOTTERY being to ra»Te a part ofthefum
advanced by the corporation for repairing and enlarging the CI
TY HALL, for the accommodation of CONGRESS, which dors
so much honor to the Architect, as well as credit to the city. The
managers presume that their fellow Citizens will cheerfully con
cur in promoting the sale of Tickets, especially as the success of
this Lottery will relieve them from a tax) which must othcrwifc
be laid to reimburse the corporation.
The above SCHEME is calculated in a manner very beneficial
to adventurers, there not being two blanks to a prize.
The Lottery is intended to commence drawing on the Fi* sT
Monday in Aucust next, or sooner if filled, of which timely
notice will be given. A lift of the fortunate numbers will be pub
liflied at the expiration ot the drawing.
Tickets are to be fold by the fubferibers, who are appointed
Managers by the Corporation.
Isaac Stoutenbu rch, Abraham Herring*
Peter T. Curtenius, John Pjntard.
New-York, 6th March % 1790.
ADVERTISEMENT.
BY order of the honorable John Slofs Hobart Esquire, one of
the Justices of the Supreme Court of Judicature of the State
of New-York. Notice is heieby given to Paul Deyrell, now or
late of Long Island, Esquire, an abfeonding debtor, and to a'
others whom it may concern; that upon application and due
proof, made to the laid Justice, pursuant to an ast of the legina
ture, entitled " an ast for relief against abfeonding and absent
debtors," palled the fourth day of April, 1786, by a creditor 0
the said Paul Deyrell, he the laid Justice has directed all his the
said Paul Deyrelrs Estate, real and personal, within this State, to
be seized ; and that unless he shall discharge his debts within three
months after the publication of this notice; alt his Estate real an
personal will be fold for the payment and fatisfaftion of his
ditors. Djted at the city of New-York, the twemy-feventh a'
of March, in the ytar of our Lord one thousand fevert }jund r c .
and ninety. March 31. iav'3'n.
II E M E,
f-3^ 9
jooo
15»'
spoo
WF
/ .3000
1000
500
200
100
5°
20
10
4
31800