f /?2X(mub
[No. CII.J
the tablet
No. CII.
« The man who grows lets by elevation is like a little Statue,
placed on a mighty Pedestal."
PROMOTION brings the talents and integ
rity of a man to a"test. It tries them by a
standard that cannot long deceive. The reputa
tion of a person, before and after an appointment
to office, may be very different. In the tranquil
scenes of private life, where good breeding is
deemed equivalent to good fenl'e ; where ufetul
virtues often aflume the name of great talents ;
and where art and cunning are not severely fcru
tir.ized, how can it be known who poflelfes the
fir'melt probity, or the moil; extensive abilities ?
Causes merely accidental may draw people into
public view, in the fir£t instance, but the leal cha
racter can only be determined by an experiment.
It is therefore not surprising that some menfhould
fink and others rife, in influence, by being raised
to a conlpicuoua station.
A man of a narrow capacity may perform duties
to a certain extent, with as much propriety as he
could, were his mind more comprehensive. In
attendingtoobjeds evidently within his reach, he
does not seem to be inferior, in that refpetft, to a
person of an elevated genius. The reason is,, that
the employment itfelf does not give lcope
for stronger faculties than he isknown topofiefs.
Hence it is readily presumed that he is qualified
for more arduous undertakings. Many circum-
Itances may confpirc to promote him to some im
portant office which is beyond the sphere of his
capacity. It could not be ascertained, without a
trial, whether he deserved fucha promotion. The
abilities of men are not often co-extensive with
their ambition. Keen palfions do not disdain
sometimes toaflociate witha weak underltanding.
When this is the, cafe, men are tempted to wan
der from their limits ; they make themselves little
by striving to be great ; and become contempti
ble in proportion as they aspire after refpeift.—
Every person who a<fts well the part alfigned him
may gain some degree of reputation, but the mofl
eminent part illy atTted, can confer no honor on
the performer.
The fame observations will hold good when
applied to the reftitudeof men. There is a cer
tain degree of llrengtli in the probity of every in
dividual. While a man is moving in the ordi- _
Tiary course of life, exp®fed to no uncommon
temptations, his integrity may perhaps never be
Shaken. But place him in a situation new and
difficult, where he is prefled by alluring motives,
to depart from his duty, and it is incredible how
soon he can shake ofF his former restraints. A
person of slender abilities may not be able to com
prehend the difliinflion of right, and wrong, in
the intricate circumstances of public life. He can
have no definite ideas of virtue and vice relative
to fubjeifts which he does not understand. By this
means, a weak man whose intentions are origi
nally honest, may fall into habits repugnant to
moral re<siitude, merely becatife he does not know
what morality has to do with the occasion. It is
hazardous in every point of view, for a person to
take a (land more elevated than he deserves. The
.public eye will feareli out his deserts, and the
public contempt consign his characfter to the
ihades.
FROM THE DAILY ADVERTISER,
THE great and important obje&of railing a revenue cngrofTcd
much of the Mien Lion of Congress in their last feflion • in the
•present they we engaged in cftablilhing public crrdit by funding
the Actional debt, foreign and domcftic, and devising ways and
xneatttto pay fche itotereft on both :—thefe arc undoubtedly objects
.of the created national importance, and every person who can fur
jiifli-ufeful hints ought tt> do it. It is evident that a principsil re
liance mnft be had upon commerce ; it is equally so that comrncrce
OHghttherefor lobe encouraged ; and in my opinion* theprcfent
leflion ought not to be fuffercd to pass without very particular
attention to it. In their innumerable fine harbours, the amazing
inland navigation which their rxtertfive rivers afford the exports,
'Which encreafe with aftonifliing rapidity—the enterprise of their
commercial men—-the plenty of materials for (hip-building, and
the (kill of their workmen in that branch—the present number of
iheir featfien, and the cafe with which it may be encre-ifed ann
in their relative Situation with refpeft to other powers, the United
.-States poflefs vervfuperior advantages, which ought immediately
to be improwd for the public benefit. That it would be ufeful
cannot be denied, and it is evidently good policy, by g'.ving suit
able encouragement to commerce, to enable our merchants to
pav thole large-firms of monev which government is under the ne
ceflitv o! calling on the*i for in the firft instance, a*id even larger,
frould they be hereafter wanted. A well regulated commercial
fvftem ftiould be forced and supported, 2nd, in this, very part!-
cu'ar attention flvniM be paid to our (hipping. Whether we con
sider the number of men employed about one veflel, from the cut
-tingdown the timber for her, in the fore ft, to her departure from
port—the farmer? emoloved in raising provisions for all these, and
flax and hemp to m ike the fails and rigging—-or the number ol
mcchanicai arts dependent on* and promoted by fhip-bu;lding,i
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 9, MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK
SATURDAY, April 1790,
this branch of business will appear worthy of the warmest sup
port : in addition to the other advantages to be derived from it,
will be the very importaut one of being our own carriers, which
will enable us to transport the produtts of our country, on the
bell terms, to the highed markets, lurnifti us with an opportunity
of procuring the conveniences of life from other nations at the fiift
cost, and keep all the money paid for the large freights out and
home among ourselves, instead of its being paid to foreigners who
now reap moll of the advantages of our trade. The conduCt of
Great-Britain may furnifhus with a very uleful hint, and we (hall
be unwise indeed if we do not profit by her experience. Her a£ts
of trade and navigation lhew clearly her attention to her own (hip
ping, and the reluctance (he has always discovered to any relax
ation of their rigor proves that lhe is fully sensible of the advan
tages gained by them. Let us attend a little to her conduCt. Her
(hip., mull be Britipi-built, and the master and three-fourths of the
hands mud be Britilh fubjeCl?. Her own territories .do not fur
nifh her with the materials necessary for fhip-builttirig, in fuf
ficient quantities, and (he mull have recourse to foreigners to pro
cure them. Large quantities of our tirabci, plank, maftSJ'fllSE. are
annually carried off in Britilh ships sent hither for the puV'pofe:
thus her seamen are employed, and a freight is made. The raw
materials carried from us are manufactured in Great-Britain, and
her (hip-carpenters and their attendants, blacksmiths, (hip jo;n
ers, caulkers, block-makers, mall-makers, rope-makers, riggers,
fail-mak.ers, boat-builders, and a great number of others arelur
nifhed with employment, and support. The (hips, thus built,
furnifh a nursery for seamen ; become the carriers of Britilh ma
nufactures to us ; and of our products at home, as remittances for
those manufactures ; for all which we must pay : and they are at
this time profitably employed in carrying the produce of the U
nited States to France, where they obtain a bounty on it. Due at
tention to the encouragement of Ihip-building, and the proper re
gulation of commerce would throw all these advantages into our
hands, and prevent our commercial and feafaring nfen the morti
fication of feeing foreigners engrofling our trade and growing
rich by it, while they themselves arc and unemployed ;
it would fill our harbors with vessels manufactured at home, and
with hardy seamen born among ourselves, who would haveftrong
er attachments to the country than the mercenaries who come here
merely for the fake of gam; and on wfrofe afliflance wc could re
ly in cafe of neccflity.
It may be enquired whether we could build a fufficient num
ber of velTels to answer the purposes of our commerce : of this
there can be no doubt in the mind of any person who will recol
lect what was done in this way before, and even during the war.
In the year 1774 the small (late of New-Hamplhire built and sent
to sea, forty-two (hips from two to three hundred and fifty tons
each, (which were all manned from the finale port of Portsmouth i
besides small trading and fifhmg vessels : if so small a (late could
furnifh such a proportion, what would not the exertions of all the
dates be equal to ? Even under the depreilions of the war, our
own yards turnifhed merchant vessels and privateers with an ex
pedition that was furpnfing ; and can our abilities now be doubted
when weare under cvsry advantage torcultivatingtheartsot peace ?
Why then should we longer luffer foreigners to enricli theinfelves
1 with the spoils of our commerce ? Why Ihouln we fuffcr our
national dignity to be insulted by a people who will not deal with
us on terms of reciprocal advantage The trade of Great-Britain
to America is one of the mod lucrative branches of her cpmmerce ; 1
(lie trades with the United States on equal terms with the mod fa
vored nation, aud every ot our ports is open to her (hips. What
return docs (he make ? Sfie admits us, it is true, to her European
ports, but arc not all the others shut againd us ? Are our mips
permitted to trade with her Wed-India illands, and other territo
ries in America ? They are not: why then should we treat her
with greater generosity £ Why (hould wc abuse ourselves, and do
injudice to our allies, by Submitting to the insolence of an
haughty nation, with whom we have no commercial treaty ? A
decidcd preference in every point of view ought tobe given to our
own (hipping; an higher tohtiage on foreigners in general will
have a great edeCt ; and foreign ships (hould be absolutely pro
hibited from carrying the produce of these dates to any port or
place, to which American vessels are not admitted.
It is rather an unfortunate circumtlance that there are so few
mercantile characters in Congress ; as for want of fufficient com
mercial information, the intereds of the Union in this importaut
point cannot be so well promoted as they otherwise might: the
defeCt would be in fomemeafuiefupplied, if our m rchants would,
from time to time, fugged such alterations in, and improvements
upon the commercial fyilcm of the Union, as would tend to pub
lic benefit; these will, undoubtedly, be properly attended to by our
national government, and such arrangements will be made as
would promote oiir manufactures, extend our commerce, and
I affid our revenue. A. B.
March 31
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THURSDAY, MARCH n.
IN Committee of the whole on the report of the
Secretary of the Treasury, for making provi
sion for the support of the public credit—the fol
lowing proposition was read, viz.
" To have sixty-six dollars and two thirds of
a dollar funded immediately, at an annuity, or
yearly interest of fix per cent, irredeemable by
any payment exceeding four dollars and two
thirds of a dollar per annum, on account both of
principal and interest ; and to have, at the end
often years, twenty-fix dollars and eighty-eight
cents funded at the like interest and rate of re
demption."
Mr. Jackson observed, that hefhould not tol
low the gentleman, (Mr. Ames) through the long
tract of history which he had entered into ; al
tho he wotfld hint to the gentleman, that the his
tory of Great Britain, which had been so much ob
jected to on former occasions, feeiiied, as it suited
the gentleman'spurpofes, tobethebeft authority
now? But he rose to answer some of the argu
ments he had adduced.
The gentleman had quoted the situation ot
Great Britain in the year \n<), and had shewn
that flie had cleared oIF full one half of hei na
tional debt, and could have cleared the other al
PRICK THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN
so, if ihehad nor been prevented by an irredeem
able quality. I will appeal to the gentleman,
himfelf, if this is not the strongest reason for
striking out the words, and if his argument (aS
he could wifti it) is not totally inadnnffible;
He has likewile pointed out to us the flattering
profpefts and flourifliing situation of the country,
such indeed as no other nation ever poflefied ; and
has produced the amazing increase of refourcei
America haS derived from the year 1756 to the
prelent time. Sir, this argument is tlje strongest:
evidence for the motion, I have the honor to make
you, and is the most forcible reason why we fliould
not tie our hands up from redeeming our debt.
From the gentleman's description, we may bri
able to get rid of it in a very few years ; and lhall
we prevent our having the power ! He trusted
not.
The irredeemable quality > he foiltid from the
gentleman was to prevent the public from paying
off the principal, if the rate of interest (hould (o
fall as to make the capital of greater value : As
forinftance, if the national rate fell to 3 per cent
that the public should pay the advance, -whicli
would be 2 J per cent, and of course that sum was
to be paid for every one hundred pounds princi
pal. This was what he could not consent to. Ihe
public had contrail ed a debt; Hewifhed then 110-
neftly and fairly to pay the amount of it. He
was not for depreciating that debt; but at the
fame time hewaS not for appreciating it beyond
its real value. He wished that the honoi' of the
nation might be preserved—that every Ihilling,
plight be provided for ; but not a shilling more.
It had been advanced, that, by this quality, a
part of the principal would be funk, and that if
the motion took place this would not be the cafe.
Mr. Jackson here observed, that the country
would not be injured by the motion he had made,
nor by the raiftng theintereft to fix percent. He
wilhed it done forthe honor and faith of the na
tion—it was agreeable to the original contract.—
He had before (hewn that, as the resolution was
now worded, it was altogether for the benefit of
the foreign creditor, and that it \vould prove a
perni.ious drain to our specie ; that the lower
ing the interest would add to that drain, and that
therefore it was a disadvantage. The common
rate of interest, in the Southern States, was 8 per
cent, if the interest of the debt was reduced to
four, would any man in thole States hold stock
at that rate ? Would they not altogether fell out,
even at a loss, and loan their monies to individuals
at 8 per cent, and regain their capital ? It would
be a natural consequence; and there would be no
holder of stock in those parts. The securities
would either go into the hands of foreigners, or
be purchased up in the Ndftliern States. It was
therefore clearly the interest of America, to raise
the principal and interest agreeable to the con
tract, to keep as much within the States as possi
ble, and, to make the burthen agreeable, to have
it divided and dispersed generally among our own
citizens.
The gentlemanliad said, that foreigners would
follow their property into this country : This
he could Hot agree to. The characters whicli
would purchase were generally the brokers he
had alluded to, who lived on their interest with
out regarding posterity ; they were chiefly su
perannuated, and well feitled, and of course
would not be for a change of situation ; but if
they did, the evil would still remain, and the se
curities would soon find their way to foreign coun
tries again. The settlers, here, would experience
it to be their interest to place their monies in a
more active capacity, and the fame rate bf Inter
est would be the fame inducement to other fo
foreigners to purchase.
The gentleman had alked if it was the inten
tion to oblige the public to pay compound inter
est He would anTwer him, no. It was an op
tion held out, where persons might not prefer
ourweftern lands : It would shew creditors, that
Congress provided for them as much as lay in
in their compass atprefent, and that the remain
der would be provided for whenever the United
States had it in their power. If he did not un
derstand the original proposition, he begged to be
set right s but as he understood it, the preient
motion would leave the proposition, on the head
of interest, as it found it; the principal only
would be raised to its nominal amount.
The motion, he contended, was just to our cre
ditors, and complied with our engagements —it
was just to ourselves. He hoped the committee
would view the word "irredeemable"as he did,
and as lie was convinced ouv fellow-citizens would
view it—as obnoxious and impolitic. He would
beg the committee again to attend to the firft argutnent lie liad noticed to the gentleman, (Mr.
Ames) —that Great Britain* in the year 1719,
might have funk all her debt, but for this very
tie, which we were about to inipofe on ourselves.
Mr. Madison -could not admit some of the
dodtrines of the gentleman, nor some of the con
clusions drawn from others. The proposed mo
difications, however veiled or varnilhed by our
selves, could not be reconciled with the tenor of
the public engagements, and mull reft for their
juftification with the world on the circumstances
of thecountry. The Britilhexample adverted to
■was not applicable. The creditors there, by re
fufing to fubfcribeto the new loan, remained in
pofleilion of their ftipulatedintereft. It was but
to let the tranfaclion speak its true meaning : as
it was decided to be the sense of the committee
that the public circumstances required that the
d;bt should be modified, the only questions left
inuft relate to the form and words of the modifi
cation to be proposed. He wiflied to Amplify the
debt as much as poflible, and should therefore a
gree to strike out the clause restraining the right
of redemption to the rate of 4 dollars and a frac
tion per annum, in order to authorise the govern
ment to pay it off at the rate of 10 dollars per
annum, as luggefted by another gentleman from
Maflachufetts. If this, said he, be done, it wonld
be proper to adjnft the sum to be funded at the
end of ten years, to the change made in the irre
deemable term. The gentleman had drawu a
pleasing, and he hoped atrue piifturc of the grow
ing prol'perity of this country. But What would
result from it > Not that the debt should be per
petuated ; but that we should be able to begin a
reduction of the principal, and ought not there
fore to throw away the right to do 10.
• FRIDAY, MARCH 12.
In Committee of the whole on the report of the
Secretary of the Treasury, for making provision
for the support of the public credit.
The third proposition was read.
Mr. Lee moved that this should be rejected.
Mr. Kitzfimons observed that if this is struck
out, all idea of offering an alternative to the cre
ditors is abandoned—he wished to enquire whe
ther that was the inind of the Committee ? For if
this is struck out, the creditors must receive the
two-thirds, at fix per cent, and the refidueinland.
Mr. Lee said, that having made provision for
tne debt to the extent of our abilities, he thought
there was no obligation to attempt to do more,
and being in favor of a fiinple plan of finance, he
was opposed to encreafing the propositions on
■which it is to be funded.
Mr. Sedgwick obfervedthat to an inhabitant of
Virginia, the plan of paying one-third of the
debt in lands, was an object of great consequence.
But to.those of the Middle and Northern States,
this would prove a very inconsiderable induce
ment to subscribe to the loans : Upon ternn of
justice and equality, he therefore contended that
different alternatives ought to be held out to the
inhabitants of the United States.
Mr. Stone was 111 favor of the motion—he an
ticipated foreigners becoming proprietors of our
funds, as an evil to be greatly deprecated. The
settlement of the Western Territory, byourown
citizens is a event, from thisfource we
have always expected to derive the means offink
ing a great proportion of our debt; and by con
lining the creditors to one object, we shall eqilal
ly interest .the citizens of all the states. If we
hold out different alternatives, we should proba
bly deprive ourselves of the advantage of making
jale ofanyofour Western Territory.
Mr. Sherman was opposed to the motion—he
thought it wife andjuft to hold out different pre
positions; he differed with Mr. Sedgwick, he
thought the lands would be an object with the
Isew-England people : 1 hey areaddidied to emi
gration as much as any part of the union. He
was for shortening the period for redemption ;
but hoped that the proposition would not be re
jected altogether.
Mr. Fiszfimons advocated tlie proposition, and
entered into a particular consideration of the au
vantages which would result in the present cir
eumftatices of the country from foreigners pur
chasing otir debt, provided they gave a full equi
valent for it. The advantage of the cash which
would thereby be brought into the country,
would more than counterbalance the payment of
interest for many years to come.
The motion for rejecting the proposition being
put, it was negatived.
The question then was on the amendment pro
posed by Mr. Jaclcfon for striking out what re
lates to irredeemability.
Mr. Tucker in a series of calculations upon
certain principles attempted to (hew that the ir
redeemable 'quality would greatly enhance the
debt of the United States.
Mr. Lawrance replied to Mr.Tucker,and {hewed
that the gentleman's plan would greatly enhance
the amount of the debt; whereas the Secretary's
report demonstratively provides for leflening it.
He agreed with the gentleman from Maryland,
that we ought to do the belt for our creditors ;
but did not think that making them only one of
fer, and that the one already agreed to, was do
ing the best wc can. He mentioned the exifling
resources of the country, and the obligation we
are under to exert ourselves upon that idea. He
shewed the advantage of the speculation of fo
reigners, and that it ought to be encouraged.
Mr. Madison said that foreigners speculating
in our funds would induce a spirit ofluxury. That
the pernicious consequences of credit had been
severely felt; that our experience did not juftify
the supposition that an' influx of atflive property,
or money would be employed in agricultural im
provements.
' He did not think that if a medium to the a
mount of one-fourth of the value of all the pro
perty of the United States was to be thrown into
circulation, that any more land would be culti
vated.
Mr. Goorlhue said that if by retaining the
words, any advantage can be derived, there can
be no doubt with gentlemen as to the eligibility
of retaining them. He thought it had been de
monstrated, that advantages would result from
this irredeemable quality.
Several other gentlemen spoke on the occa
sion—the motion was loft.
SATURDAY, MARCH 13
The chairttian of the committee having read the resolve, " that
immediate provision ought to be made tor the prclent debt of the
United States," &c.
Mr. Gerry obterved, that he fbould have risen before this pro
portion was read, had he not supposed that the gentleman from
Pennsylvania (Mr. Fitzfimons) intended to bring forward his mo
tion lor filling up the blanks lett in the last proportion which wa«
considered yesterday, and Mr. Fitzfimons informing the com
mittee that he propoied to make his motion in the House—Mr.
Gerry said thai, as many gentlemen appeared to be fatisfied that
the two propositions tor modifying the debt would be accept
able to the creditors, and he entertained a different opinion, he
hoped for the indulgence of the committee, whilst he submitted
his realons for differing from them. He said he considered this
part of the Secretary's plan as the most important of the wfiole :
it is the elTence of the funding fyftem,the pivot on which will de
pend the equilibrium of pu:>lic credit. He had always conceived
that public credit was indifpenfible to our national existence, un
der any form of government, and being in favor of the Secreta
ry's plan in general, he fhouid give it every support in his power ;
but not thinking it perfett, he exprelTcd a wiih that its defc&s
might be cured.
"1 he Secretary* said Mr. Gerry* lays it down as a maxim, and
I think it cannot be contcited, " that the maintenance of public
credit can only be effected bv good faith, and a pun£lual perfor
mance of contrails." Let us enquire what is the existing contrail
between the United States and their creditors, in what manner it
, has been complied with, and how far it is now in the power of
Congrcfs to do them justice.
1 fje contrail, he said, it is well known, is to pay the principal
of the debt in fpccie, with an interell till paid of 6 per cent per
annum. The principal indeed, of part of the debt, being payable
in three years after it was contrailed, is now due ; but this class of
the creditors will probably be fatisfied with the provilion to be
made for the others.
And in what manner, said he, has the contra# been complied
with ? A small part of the interest has been paid by bills of ex
change on France, and the rcfidue has been paid in depreciated
paper, or is now due to the creditors.
He then enquired, how far it is in the power of Congress to do
juliice to the creditors ? This point, he said, had never been as
certained ; but we now intend to propose to the fubferibing cre
ditors, to fund two thirds of their debt at 6 percent, redeemable
at the pleasure of Congress, and to pay the other third in western
lands ; or tofund two-thirds at 6 per cent, irredeemable in a sti
pulated degree, and to fund in ten years a sum not yet ascertained
as an equivalent. The lurplus of the funds, if auy, is to be ap
plied to the payment of the interest due to non-ftibfcribers, so as
not to exceed 4 per cent, agreeably to the proposition of the Se
cretary. Is this securing, or is it doing all we can to secure to
the creditors a compliance with the terms of the contraa ? I con
ceive it is neither.
( That the propositionS do not secure such a compliance is evi
dent at firft blush ; for who would give as much for 100 dollars,
two-thirdsof which shall be funded in one of the modes propo
sed, and the other third payable in lands, or in an equivalent to be
funded ten years hence, as for 100 dollais funded at fix per cent,
per anhum, and redeemable at the pleasure of Congress ? No man
of common understanding, as I think will hereafter appear.
That the making such proposals is not doing all we can to se
cure such a compliance, is, I| think, equally evident.
Some gentlemen have declared* that they have no idea* of the
ab.l.ty of government to fulfil the contraa ; and that the creditors
have abandoned an eXpeaation of receiving either the whole of
the principal or of the interest that is due to them. What evi
dence have we of this ? If we may judge from the justice of their
claims, Irom their urgency and impatience, and from the petitions
of the creditors, they expect the whole of their principal and in
tcreft : but if thev do not, is it not evident that they must con
the nat,on ,ri a ft»te of bankruptcy ? And is it not our duty
to convince them, and all the world, of our abil.ty and difpofi-
to pay our debts, by doing the ftriaeft justice to our crc-
If gentlemen have no idea of the ability of government to do
this, they mull either despair of resources, or of the support of the
people,n drawing them forth: and if the former, is it not our du
ty, and will it not be more honorable to apply the resources as far
as they will go to the dilchacgc of the debt, and to depend on our
increasing population, commerce, husbandry and manufactures,
Jiid also on the western territory, for an encrcafe of means, rather
than to declare a national bankruptcy ? This, like Pandora's box
wou dbe pregnant with every evil; it would shake the govern
tnt to the foundation, and endanger our national independence.
But why, it they despair of resources, do gentlemen resolve to
make adequate provision for fulfilling our engagements with fo
eigners ? Are, we, in cases of exigency, to rell the support of our
government on foreigners, or on our own citizens ? If on the lat
!'"! l, ' y evcr tr " ll , us ast « f"ch partially to foreigners ? Are
ot the debts contrasted with our citizens as juflly due as ihofe of
the other description ? If we a,e to make a discrimination, ought
it not, on principles of policy, to be in favor of our citizens i> May
no our national exiftcnce depend on our credit with them ? I am
not, however, in any event, for making such , diftinftion ; for, in
cafe nf a bankruptcy, I (hould be in favor of equ*uftice io every
inr ! ° r ' 7 X thls f dc( P™dency ? Shall we ™t, by defpair
en'a v?' e " n ° Ur '° su P credit, ma-
Sl, II we nTh f censured for want of firmnefs?,
mn T, ; rfpo ," f ' blt ' for hav,n S thus despaired of the Com
monwealth, and, what is worCe, for having despaired without
Have we atlonded to our resources ? Have we an adequate idea
repouTt' ajtea
and unliquidated,
406
For the interest of the foreign debt, !'
For the interest of the domestic debt, if paid, M 5 »599 »6
according to the contn&, . „
For the civil lift, and other expences of go- l i
vernment,
The revenue reported in his firft eftimateis,
In his lad estimate,
Making 3,903,400
n hich leaves a deficiency of 1,284,044 dollars, and 81 cents, s O ,
funding the whole debt accordingto contract.* j
Tlie Secretary has likewise sported that he has additional re
sources, without extending taxation to lioul'es or lands, or the st oc k
or produce of farms ; and we have no reason to suppose that thole
additional rciourccs would not be adequate to the making uothi*
deficiency. Butifthisisnottliecafe.it is well known, that in
consequence of the propositions o! Congress, in April i ; 8, m 'a„ v
of the States divelted, as they confentcd to be, of the itnpJlt and
loaded .vith State debts,far exceeding iheirprefent amount agreed
to provide annually their refpeftive proportions of what weri cal
led the fupplementarv funds, amounting to 1,500,000 dollars an!
can any one doubt that, exonerated as the States will now be of
their debts, the citizens of the United States in their present cir
cumllances, can with much more ease, pay the deficiency men
tioned, than they could at that|period the supplementary funds?—
Indeed, can any one doubt our ability »t this time to fund the na
tional debt, according to the (lipulated terms of the contrail ?
If there are any such, I confefs myfelfnot of the number. It is
said we mud have in reserve resources in cafe of exigencies : This
may be proper; but is not the support of public credit of the
greatest moment ? May not the lols of it prove an irreparable in,
jury ? And arc we to incur a certain evil to avoid an uncertain
one ? •
If our resources then are not to be doubted, what reason have wo
to diftrult thefupport of our constituents ? Should it be Welled
in our hearing that they were indisposed to pay a debt, that had
not only a claim 011 their juflice, but on their honor and generofitv
a debt that is the price of their independence, lhould we not kin!
die with indignation ? And (hall we, by an unreafonablediftiulf
be the firft to fix such a (ligma on our constituents ? Or, conduct*
ing thus, (hall we not justly mrrit their refentmcnt { Hit be aftcd
what (hall we do to fulfill, as far as poflible, our contrast > I an f.
wer, wc ought not to oblige the creditois to lake two-thirds of
their demands in funded ficuruies, and the other third in wild
finds, or in what you mav call ail equivalent, ten yeart hence • or
to receive the alternative provided tor the unfubfcribed debt ' A
great part of the debt is still in the hands of the original holder!
to do justice to whom the committee are unanimous in theirwilh"
cs. If we suppose ten millions dollars in the hands of specula"
tors,the value thereof will,at the late average rate of (locks, amount
to between three 01 four millions dollars in specie, a fnm I con
ceive, exceeding the property of the fpcculators altogether • but
suppose they hold 1 5 millions dollars, foreigners s millions, and
the States, cxclufive of Pennsylvania, 3or 4 millions (for that
State, having exenanged her funded certificates for continental
fecuritiea, which were generally owned by original holders, must
according to the Secretary's plan, deliver them into the federal
trcafury, or re-exchange them) it is evident then that two-thirds
01 the public debt is in the hands of original holders : Let us how
ever suppose but half, will many of them be willing, or, if willing
be able to receive lands for a third of their debts ? If the lands
were cultivated and near them, would they be equal to an'intereft
of 6 per cent, or of more than 4 per cent, except perhaps in foms
ot the Southern States ? And would they be difpoled to accept
of your proposal ? But remote asthefe lands are,inve(led by hostile
Indian;, wild and uncultivated, will they furnifhfood orcloath
ing (or your creditors ? Should a few purchase, will they not be
comparatively very few.
Again, Will funding an equivalent for one third ten vearshence,
be tulhling the contraa ? After being ten or fifteen years put off
With promtfes, will the creditors be thus fatisfied ? Will it be in
their power-advanced as many of them are in years, »nd called
on, perhaps, by their own creditors, whom your disappointments
have prevented them from paying to acc«pt such terms ? Suppose
an individual had trusted an other for fucfi a term of years, and at
the end thereof, when the latter was in podeffion of hiseftate, had
fen told, that twt> thirds of the interest (hould be annually paid £
and that the other third, or an equivalent (hould be paid in ten
years: would the proposal cftablifti the credit of the debtor? Or
would he not be conftdered as a person deftituteof honelly ? How
then can we expefl, merely by such proposals, to cftablifh the pub
liC.crcdit ? r ' r
Gentlemen conceive that the proposition, referred to will be an
equivalent, on the principle laid down by the Secretary, viz. that
1 e s capital at a fixed rate of inter eft, may bean equivalent for a
Q reater capital at a variable rate : but admitting this principle, are
not t e d ata doubtful on which the calculations are made, that in
ere in five years will fall to 5 per cent, and in 20 years to 4 ?
rIS e , s own that thc genius of oi|-r fellow-citirens is enter
pri ing r* \\e lee them, although we have wild lands exceeding ill
extent the German dominion, crofting the Miffifippi to speculate
in lands in the Spanilh dominions : we fee them extending their
commercial ipeculati6ns to the North pole, and they will go to the
out i "ole on the firftdifcovery of a commercial territory ; inour
un s, they speculate deeply and they are as conspicuous for their
'peculations 111 forms of government. Scarcely a year revolves,
without our feeing some of the States, or the United States, adopt
ing a new system of government; and, before 20 years shall c
aP c , we expect that the latter, in their turn, will form one
or two constitutions. We are also, like other nations, fubjeft to
foreign wars and internal commotions : these, and such like events,
are eyond our controul ; and, whenever they take place, will en
crea e the rates of interfft. The probability is not therefore not
more in favor of the fall than of the rife of interest : and if it
iou d not fall, the proposition to be made will injure the credit
-01 s. I conceive, then, that we have no more right to assume the
principle that interest will fall, and by afiuming it, to reduce the
interest, than the creditors whose principal is due have a right to
a ume the contrary principle, in order to increase the rates of in
-Ire t. The faireft way is to presume that the interest will conti
nue at the rate it now is, and whenever it falls, to take the bene
totit so far as shall be confident with justice. Few of the cre
itors understand the calculation of equivalents, and will be apt t®
con 'der them as a State artifice to reduce the value of flocks: they
will be confirmed in this opinion, however honest our intentions
may be, by the disposition we are making to purchase the debt at
tie maiket price. We have no right to make arrangements of this
'ind, until the whole debt is fairly funded ; and then, if we have
unds left, we shall have a right to apply them in the way men-
Some gentlemen have ftipofed that 66 and two-thirds of dollars
in ten years hence, may be worth 100 dollars: but this fuppofitr
on does not establish thefaa. The rife and fall of stocks, depend
on events, these may reduce the sum firft mentioned to 33 and one
third dollars.
If, then, the two proportions which have bden examined do not
Ul ? a com p l ' anc e with the original contrast, will the alternative
which is left for non-fubferibers ? This provides that the dregs of
the revenue, which may amount to nothing, ih all be applied to
pay their interest, not to exceed, in any event, 4 per cent, per an
num. Will not this, in lieu of an equitable provision for the cre
ditors, be considered x a penalty for their not fubferibing.
Mr. Gerry then said, he presumed it must appear that further
provision is necelTary, and he should offer a proposition, as an ad
dition to the two,that are adopted irf the words following:
600,000
T « a '. 5,'87, 444 »i
*>843,000 ,
1,060,00011 Or to have sixty-six dollars and two thirds of a dollar funded
immediately, at a yearly interest of 6 percent; and thirty-three
dollars and one third of a dollar in an unfunded certificate, bear
ing an annual interest of fix per cent, payable at the option of the
holder, annually, in a funded certificate at a yearly interest of 6
per cent; or as soon as funds can be provided, in specie ; and that
the faith of Congress be pledged to fund as soon as poflible the un
funded certificate."
By this proportion, if Congrefi with for time to make their
arrangements, the creditor may either receive annually the inter
cft on the unfunded part of his debt in a funded certificate ; or,
if he prefers fpetie, he may wait till Congress can provide it. It
perhaps wtll befaid, this will increase thecapital ; but we have al
ready agreed to increale it by adding fifteen or twenty millions
of dollars due for interest, or that will be due before the periods
at whkh we are to fund the debt ; and as we have done this be
cause we cannot pay that interest, the fame reason exists for adopt
ing a fimilarmeafure with refpeft to the interest which may here
after accrue, and which we (hall not immediately provide to dis
charge. Within five years Mr. Gerrv supposed Congress would
be able to fund this unfunded part of the debt; and if no part
thereof (hould be received for lands, out the whole be subscribed
on the terms of this proportion, the capital of the debt would at
the end of five yeari be incrcafed but 5,393,124 dollars, and the
interest which would be paid during that period on the funded
certificates, to be ilfued for interest, would be but 808,920 dol
lars : in fucli an event there would be no irredeemable quality in.
any part of the debt, the disadvantages of which overbalanced in
the minds of the committee the advantages of reducing its capital,
as was evident from their vote yefteiday to lefleii the time of re
demption by increasing the capital.
The Secretary has justly reprobated every proposal that fhafl ap
ply to the neceflities, and not to the reason and interest of the cre
ditors. If the two propositions agreed to io not apply to the lat
ter, the neceflity of the one now offered to the committee must be
evident : if these propositions do apply, and arc acceptable to the
creditors, they will prefer them to this, which however will man
ifeft our desire to do them all poflible justice.
Mr. Gerry then said he was not so attached to the motion he
had made as not to give it up, if any gentleman would offer a bet
ter, to attain the definable object he aimed at. This he thought in
dispensable, because if we offered what we called an equivalent,
and not what the creditors (hould consider asl'ucb, the intended
loan would be acompulfory one, and, inflead ot supporting, would
tend to destroy the public credit.
Mr. Gerry's motion was seconded by Col. Bland, and laid on
the table. After the other propositions were palled, it was taken
up and debated, and as several gentlemen were much opposed to a
decision on such a proposition at so late an hour as three o'clock,
and at the end of the week, in the absence of a number of mem
bers it was withdrawn, that the committee might report, and
will probably be'brought forward in the House.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 31.
the Manufacturers of Tobacco
in the cities of Philadelphia and New-York, rei
pe<fting an enhanced duty on manufactured To
bacco and Snuff were read.
The bill to regulate trade with the Indian
tribes was read the second time, and referred to
a committee of the whole houl'e, to be the order
of the day on Monday next.
The amendments of the Senate to the bill for
promoting the progrefi of ufeful arts were read.
Ameflagewas received from the Senate,inform
ing the House that they have palled an art to pre
vent the exportation of goods, not duly infpe<fted
accoiding to tbe laws of theleveral States.
In committee of the whole. The proposi
tion for the afliimption of the State debts under
consideration.
The debate was continued ; but no decision
took place, previous to the riling of the commit
tee.
Mr. Sedgwick of the committee, to whom was
re committed the bill to regulete theintercourfe
between the United States and foreign nations,
brought in a new bill, which was read the firft
time.
The Committee also reported the following re
solution, which was laid on the table.
Rel'olved, That the Secretary of State, be di
rected to report to the house, whether, in his o
pinion, it is expedient that the foreign and domes
tic branches of bufinels, in his department, should
be kept diftincfl ; and whether it is neceilary that
a chief clerk ihould be appointed for each.
THURSDAY, APRIL t.
The bill to regulate the intercourse between
the United States and foreign nations, was read
thefecond time, and referred to a committee of
the whole House, to be taken into consideration
on Thursday next.
Mr. Gilman of the joint committee of both hou
ses, appointed to examine the enrolled bills, re
ported, that the committee had examined the
bill for accepting the celfion of the claims of N.
Carolina to a certain diftricft therein described ,
also the bill to prevent the exportation of golds,
not duly infpecffed according to the laws of the
several States—and found them duly enrolled.
The Speaker affixed his signature to the above
bills.
Sundry petitions prefentedby Mr. Huntington,
and Mr. Lawrance were read, and referred to the
heads of departments.
The resolution, laid on the\ table yesterday,
refpecfting the Department of the Secretary of
State was taken up.
Some conversation ensued on this resolution lo
far as tlie idea of creating two departments was
contemplated by the resolution, it was, objedted
to—the mode of introducing the fubjecft before
the Honfe was said to be unparliamentary that
after a great deal of debate refpecling the ar
rangement of this department, a law had palled
for its organization—that the Secretary is empow
ered by the law to employ as many clerks as he
shall thinkproper—and in arranging the bnlinefs
if he finds it neceflary, that the falavy ot acleik,
liars
>end
one
► not
itive
7$ Of
i to
an
crc-
Adjourned.
to wliofe particular infpe<ftion,, particular parts
of the business is assigned, should be encreafed,
he will make a representation to the legislature
accordingly. '
Mr. Sedgwick observed, that nothing was fur
ther from his thoughts than creating two diftindt
departments—the committee had supposed that
a reference of this fubjed: to the Secretary of
State was a natural and eligible step; but how
ever, as gentlemen appeared to entertain -differ
ent feritimentsonthe business, he would with
draw the refolutibn.
In committee of the whole.- The propofi
tionfor the afl'umption of the State debts was de
bated this day, till after thre"e o'clock, when the
committee rose, without taking any vote on the
question.
A meflage was received from the President of
the United States by his Secretary—with the ra
tification by South-Carolina of the amendments
proposed by Congress to the constitution of the
United States. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, APRIL 2.
The member? of ihe Houlc atTembled this day attheufual hour
-but on account of its being Good Friday, adjourned till to
norrow, without doing bufinels.
PREMIUMS
Proposed by the Philadelphia Society, for promoting
Agriculture, for the year 1790.
[Continued from our laft.J
For the best information, the result of adlual
experience, for preventing damage to crops by
infers ; especially the Hellian fly, the wheat-fly,
or fly-weevil, the pea-bug, and the corn clinch
bug or fly,—a gold medal ; a silver medal for the
second best. To be produced by the 20th of De
cember, 1 790.
For an account of a vegetable food that may
be easily procured and preserved, and that bell
increases milk in cows and ewes, in March and
April, founded on experiment,—a gold medal ;
for the feond best, —a silver medal. Tobepro
duced by the tenth of January, 1791.
For the greareft quantity of ground, not less
than one acre, well fenced,producinglocuft trees,
growing in 1790, from feedfown after April sth,
1785 ; the trees to be of the fort used for polls
nnd trunnels, and not fewer than 1500 per acre,
—a gold medal—for thefecond, afilver medal.—
To be claimed in December, 1790.
The society believing that very important ad
vantages would be derived from the general use
of oxen, inltead ofliorfes, in husbandry and other
services ; and being desirous of facilitating their
introduction into all tliefe States —perluaded also
that the comparative value of oxen and cowsmuft
very much depend on the qualities of their fires
and dams ; and that by a careful attention to the
fubjedt, an improved breed may be obtained ;
they propose a gold medal for the best eflay, the
result of experience, on the breeding, feeding,
and management of cattle, for the purpose of ren
dering thein most profitable for the dairy, and
for beef, and molt docile aud ufeful for the
draught ; and for the next belt, a silver medal.—
To be produced by the iftof January, 1791.
N. B.—Among other things the eflay should
noticethe different breeds of cattle, and their com
parative qualities ; as their sizes, itrength, facility
in fattening, quantity of milk, &c.
NEW-YORK, APRIL 5.
We are informed that there will soon be pub
lished, an history of this, and the preceding ses
sion of Congress ; and that the objetf: of this his
tory will be to point out the 1110 ft intercftingquef
tions that have been debated, and to make iuch
remarks on the proceedings at large as wilHhew
the general complexion of public business. This
history will be rendered Angularly entertaining,
by furniihing a biographical account of the most
diftinguilhed characters in Congress ; and by in
veftigatingthe views and principles which appear
to have governed the debates.
A CORRESPONDENT.
To doubt the competency of the United States 1
to pay the interest of all their debts, is to
doubt a fa<ft which exists with better evidence for
its support, than any fa<st that can be cited with
refpeift to any civilized country upon earth.
It is to doubt of the ability of this people to
support its government. It is to doubt in a cafe,
where doubt is deftrutfion. It is to doubt the
existence of the body politic. It is to doubt the
wisdom of the great body of the people in adop
ting the constitution. It is to doubt the continu
ance of peace and domestic tranquility—in short
it is to doubt the existence of every principle of
honor and honesty, among the citizens of the
union. , . .
If such are the consequences of doubting only
in this cafe, what may not be expetfted should it
be positively aliened that the states are not wjl
lingto do justice to their creditors, and that their
funds are inadequate to paying their debts ? It
is to despair of the Commonwealth. It is to de-
407
VI.
VII
VIII
IX.
Clare a national bankruptcy. It is to advertise to
all the world that we are a nation of rogues. It is
to cut up our profpedts by the roots. It is to di
vert ourselves of allhopes of future credit ; either
at home or abroad. , It is to facrifice the interelts
of the most meritorious class of our citizens. It
operates as a premium for delinquency. It is re
warding thole who never put forth a finger in the
service and defence of the country. It is entire
ly crushing thole who have taken upon them the
burthens of patriotifin, and have thereby eman
cipated their country. It involves a dillolmion of
the social compact, and is proclaiming to the
world, " that there is rottennels in the State of
Denmark."
A correspondent observes that the zeal and in
dustry with which some persons endeavor to ex
cite a spirit ofjealoufy and hoftilitjfc, between the
general and state governments, are equally in
aufpicions to both—and altho the pretenders to
political merit, are many, yet a surplusage of
honesty and abilities, was never yet complained,
of in any country whatever. To deprive the
people of an opportunity to avail theinfelves of
the abilities of their best men, whatever appear
ance the measure may afl'ume, it will be found
injurious to their molt eflential interests.
Poflefling as the United States do, the eflen
tials of sovereignty, is it not degrading to the
highest degree, that the American Flag Ihould
not be unfurled upon terms of perfedl equality
in all quarters of the globe ? Poflefling such inex
haustible resources for fliip-building, is it not
mortifying that our produce, and raw materials
ftiould be exported from our shores, principally
in foreign bottoms ? What fir anger would not think
htmfdf in a Br'ttijb Port, when counting the Britijb
Flags in our Harbors ?
A Correspondent observes that facts prove the
fallacy of an opinion which has been induftri
otrfly difleminated by some persons, who are sup
posed not to be friendly to the New Government;
which is, that the reftdence of Cohgrefs In any
of our great commercial cities, would concenter
an influence in such place, that would tend to
destroy the equilibrium of the union—for it ap->
pears by authentic documents publiilied to the
world, that Philadelphia supports her superiori
ty to New-York in exports and imports, in the
amount of her import, and the number of her
Ihipping.
EXTRACT
Few, if any situations in life afford a lnore ex*
tensive field for diffufing good to the community
andmankind, than that in which an ingenious
and judicious Editor of a Newspaper is placed.
Knowledge being the feed of political, domeltic,
and moral happiness, hislabors inflrudtmillions,
and descend to future generations —he culls from
all authors and ages, from the living and dead
wisdom of the world. Newspapers are the book
of experience, they contain the most ufeful and
important information for all ranks and conditi
ons of men : And it is generally the cafe that a
total indifference,to this source of entertainment,
and inftrudtion is connected with great insensi
bility, great ignorance,or consummate vanity. I
have known some characters who piqued them
selves on this indifference—and who at the fame
time precipitated themselves into the most absurd
situations, for want of that knowledge which this
medium would have supplied.
for the gazette of the united states.
FABLE,
ONCE on a time, as authors tell.
The freftiets made a river swell ;
The River, as the story goes,
All the surrounding banks overflows ;
The only neighboring spot of high-land,
Was soon converted to an island,
Thence, from their holes and burrows routed)
A motly tribe for fafety scouted—
There common danger leagu'd in peace,
Dogs, cats and rats, and fox and geese ;
Who, while the flood around them rose,
Forgot they ever had been foes : —
But when the ground was clear of rain—
Were cats and rats, and dogs again ;
All found their fafety in their flight,
" And bid civilities good night."
Thus 'tis with States—when dangers nigh
" Unite, zee live—divide, we die"—
The North and South in concert Join,
And public good's the grand design—
But when peace comes on downy wing,
And poets halcyon ages sing ! —
Those States coop'd up in legislature,
(The example don't exist in nature)
Opposing interests abound,
And there the heal charge goes found.
" Aristides" cametoo late for this days paper-—and as his
fubjett has been decided on, we think it would be unseasonable;
but Oiould be very happy to enrich the Gazette by future com
munications.
Jult published, by
CAREY, STEWART, AND COMPANY,
No. 111, of the Vllth volume of
The American M U S E U M,
OR , *
UNIVERSAL MAGAZINE,
And to be fold by THOMAS ALLEN, No. 13, Queen -St r eet,
where fubforiptions are received, 1 Pol, and halt pr. an.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW YORK.
Brig St. George, Oporto,
Sloop Cynthia, Rogers, St. Martin».CONGRESS OF THE UNI TED STATES,
At the Second Seflion,
Begun and held at the City of New-York, on Monday the fourth
of January, one thousand seven hundred and ninety.
An ACT miking Appropriations [or the Support of Government, for
the rear one thou fandfeven hundred and ninety.
BE it enabled by the Senate and House of Rtprefentitivcs of the Unit
ed States of America, in Congress ajjemblea, That there fee ap
propriated for thefervice of the year one thousand seven hundred
said ninety, to be paid out of the monies arising from the duties
t>n imports and tonnage, the following sums, to wit: A sum not
exceeding one hundred and fortv-onc thousand, four hundred and
ninety-two dollars, and cents, for defraying the ex
pences of the civil lift, as cftimated by the Secretary of the Trea
sury, in the statement annexed to his report made to the house of
representatives on the ninth day of January last, including therein
the contingencies of the several executive officers, which are here
by authorised and granted; and also, a sum not exceeding one
hundred and fifty-five thousand, five hundred 1 and thirty-leven
dollars, and seventy-two cents, for defraying the expences of the
depaitment of war ; and the farther sum of ninety-fix thousand,
nine hundred and seventy-nine dollars, and seventy-two cents,
for paying the pensions which may become due to the invalids, as
cftimated in the statements accompanying the aforefaid report.
Andbe itfurther cnatted, That all the expcnces arising from, and
incident to the sessions of Congress, which may happen in the
course of the aforefaid vear, agreeably to liws heretotore pafled,
flidll be defrayed out of the monies arising from the aforefaid du
ties on imports and tonnage.
And be it further enafled, That the President of the Ignited States
be authorised to draw from the treasury a sum not exceeding ten
thousand dollars, for the purpose of defraying the contingent
charges of government, to be paid out of the monies arising as
aforefaid, from the duties on imports and tonnage, and that he
cause a regular statement and account of such expenditures, to be
laid before Congress at the end of the year.
And be it further evaded, That a sum not exceeding dnehuiidred
end forty-feven thousand, one hundred and sixty-nine dollars, and
fifty-foui cents, be appropriated out of the monies arifingas afore
faid from the duties on imports and tonnage, for discharging the
demands which exist against the United States, asfpecified by the
Secretary of the Treasury in his report made to the House ot Re
presentatives onthe firft of March instant, including therein apro
vifon for building a hght-houfe on Cape-Henry, in the state of
Virginia, and for defraying the expences arising from the ad, en
tituled, 44 An a& for the eftabliftiment and support of light-houses,
beacons, buoys, and public piers."
And be it further enafled, That out of the aforefaid appropriati
on of one hundred and forty-feven thousand, one hundred and
iixty-nine dollars, and fifty-four cents, the payment of the fol
lowing sums, not heretotore provided for by law, and estimated
in the aforefaid report of the Secretary of the Treasury of the firft
of March instant, is hereby authoriftd and intended to be made,
to wit : For the expences of the late office of foreign affairs,
fix hundred and fifty dollars : To Roger A'.den, for his services,
including his office-expences, and the allowance to his clerks,
eight hundred and seventy-three dollars, and seventy cents: To
the late commifiTioner for fettling the accounts of the departments
of the late quarter-master-general, and commifTaries general of
purchaics and ilTues, for his own and clerk's services, from the
eighth of May to the firft of August, one thousand seven hundred
and eighty-nine, one thousand and ten dollars, and fifty-five cents :
To the late commissioner for fettling the accounts of the late ma
rine, cloathing, and hcfpital departments, for his own aud clerk's
services, from the eighth of May td the third of August, one thou
sand seven hundred and eighty-nine, fix hundred and twenty
eight dollars, and twenty-fix cents :To the late commissioner for
odjufting the accounts of the secret and commercial committees of
Congrels, for his salary from the firft of July to the third of Au
gust, one thousand feveD hundred and eighty-nine, one hundred
and (eventy-four dollars, and sixteen cents: For defraying the
extraordinary expencqs of the late President of Congress, three
hundred and eighteen dollars, and fifty-three cents : For paying
salaries to the late loan-officers of the several states, from the thir
tieth day of June to the thirty-firft day of December) one thou
sand seven hundred and eighty-nine, including office-charges, fix
thousand seven hundred and twenty-five dollars: For payin® the
fntereft due on the loans made by the Secretary of the Treasury,
two thousand four hundred and fourteen dollars, and fixty-onc
cents.
And be it further evaded, That the sum of one hundred and
fwenty be paid out of the monies arifirigfrom the afore
faid duties on imports and tonnage, to Jehoiikun M'Tokfm, in
full compcnfation For his fcrvices as an interpreter and guide in
the expedition commanded by Major-General Sullivan, in the
year one thousand seven hundred and seventy-nine ; and also the
ium of ninety-fix dollars to James Mathers and Gifford Dalley
each, for fcrvices during the late recess of Congress.
And be itfurther ehafled, That tbe President of the United States
be authorilcd to empower the Secretary of the Treasury, if he
shall deem it necefiary, to make such loans as may be requisite to
carry into effect the foregoing appropriations, for the repayment
of which the aforefaid duties on imports and tonnage shall be,
fftid are hereby pledged.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Reprefentatnes.
JOHN ADAMS, Pice-President oj the United States,
end President of the Senate.
Approved, March the 26th, 1790.
GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the United States.
(True Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON. Secretary of State.
An AEi to'eflabhjh an uniform Rule of Naturalization,
BE it enaftedby the Senate and House of Rtpreprefcntatives of the
United States of America, in Congress ajfembled, That any alien,
being a free white pcrCbn, -who (hall have resided within the lim
its and under the jurifdi&ion of the United States for the term of
two years, may be admitted to become a citizen thereof, on ap
plication to any common law court of record, in any one of the
States wherein he shall have resided for the term of one year at
lead, and making proof to the fatisfaftion of such court, that he is
a person of good chara&cr, and taking the oath or animation
prefcrtbed bv law. to support the constitution of the United States ;
Vhicii oath or affirmation such court shall adininifter, and the
clerk of such court (hall record such application, and the proceed
ings thereon ; and thereup6n such person ihall be corifidered as a ci
tizen of the United States. And the children of such petfon so
naturalized, dwelling within the United States, being under the
age of t went v-one years at the time of fitch naturalization, (hall
also be considered as citizens of the United States. And the chil
dren of citizens of the United States that may be born beyond sea,
or out of the limits of the United States, shall be considered as na
tural born citizens : Provided, That the right of citizenship shall
not descend to persons whose fathers have never been resident in
the United States : Provided also, That no person heretofore pro
scribed by any State, (hall be admitted a citizrn as aforefaid, ex
cept by an of the legjflature of the State in which such person
was profcribcd.
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBURG,
Speaker oj thS Houfc of Keprefentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Preji dent.of t'te United States,
ar.d Prrjdent of the Senate.
ApFßO.vtn March ?6th,
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prejident ojthe 'United Stales.
(Tni'E Copy)
THOMAS JEFFERSON, $ccrct*ry of State.
OF THE EXTENT AND VALUE ;OF THE
NORTH CAROLINA CESSION.
The following account of the North-Carolina Cession,
is fa'td to have been communicated to Gongrefs by «
Member from that State, "while the bill refptliing
the ceded territory,was on its pajfage.
FROM the Stone Mountain by the line that di
vide* North-Carolina from Virginia, to the
Fork of Cumberland river, the Miles
Distance is 112
From the clear Fork to the firft
eroding of Cumberland river,
above the mouth ot Obey river, is
Thence to the second crofting
of Cumberland river,
Thence to the Tenefee river,
Thence to the Miffifippi river,
The whole distance
The general course of the Stone Mountain, or
the Iron Mountain, by which the ceded territory
is divided from North-Carolina, is south 59 or 60
degrees welt. The course of the river Miffifippi
from lat. 36 degrees, 30 minutes, the northern
boundary of North-Cai olina, to lat. 35, which is
the southern boundary, is generally south, 25 de
grees weft. It may however be stated at south,
20 degrees weft.
The width of the state is 1 degree, 30 minutes,
or io4>niles. This gives 24,570, 240 acres nearly.
The amount of land entered in the office of John
Armstrong, since it was opened in x 783, of which
some part is to the eastward of the Iron moun
tain, is 4,464,195 | acres. Of the lands granted
to officers and privates of the North-Carolina line,
a correcft return is not coine to hand, but the
highest estimation is 3,000,000 acres.—Pre-empti-
ons, guards, and commissioners rights are estima
ted at 500,000 acres. The amount granted would
then be 7,964,195 acres. Tlieie remains for the
United States above 16,606,045 acres.
Of this there may be mountainous or barren
land 5,000,000 acres, which is a great allowance,
in so fine and fertile a country. There will re
main fit for cultivation and sale at least 11,606,
045 acres.
This land, or so much of the fame as is, or /hall
be ceded by the Indians, may be immediately
fold at half a dollar the acre, in national securi
ties. It is worth that sum in specie.
European Intelligence.
LUXEMBURG, December 38.
PROVISIONS, within these few days, are more
plentiful here, and great number of oxen
have been salted down for the garrison. Gene
ral Bender is Hill ill and indeed we have scarce
any but sick and wounded here, inoft of the
troops have entered the field againlt the Patriots.
On the 24th, the citizens brought back to the
city, the miraculous virgin aiid all her riches,
which had not appeared in this place since the
entry of Louis XIV, into Luxemburg, except at
the celebration of the Oiftave. our principal
citizens have fled, they now fufFer no citizen to
leave the citv.
St. Hubert, Dec. 30. Our fituaiion is truly criti
cal ; we liave near 1000 Patriots in the city, and
1 joo Aultrians are entrenched two leagues off in
defiles, which cannot be attacked with success.
The Emperor's soldiers will not expose them,
selves by entering the city, as they know that
mode of attacking seldom is fuccelsful, but we
are in fear leaftthey flionld bombard us, to drive
out che Patriots,jwhich would infallibly destroy
our city. We have in the country some Curates
who have preached up the Crusade against the
Emperor, whiJft others have quitted their parifli
cs to take up arms and animate the young men
by their example ; but some of the peasants to
wards Neufchateau and Arlon, have hitherto held
out for the Emperor. General Varider Merfcli
is too prudent to attempt to penetrate into the
Ardennes without having his column supported
by other troops, whom he experts from Mons.
We have juit received advice that the Patriots
have been furprizedatNaffoque, and were obliged
to retreat with little loss; they took the road to
Namur.
LONDON, January 16,
Last Tuesday, a weaver of Crowhurft went out
after lome debts that were owing him, and having
colledied about ten pounds, he retired to an ale
Catsfield green, and in the course of the
night loft all his money in gaming, except three
pence. Early in the morning he returned home
and went to bed, bin there he had not lain loner
before he began to reflect so deeply on his folly'
that he got up, went down stairs into an out
ho life, and there hung liimfelf, where he was soon
afterwards discovered, but too late for human
skill to afford him any afliftance.
In the month of May the oysters cart their fpawi: •
"r / a , d . ro P of candle, and about the big
ness of a farthing ; it cleaves to stones, and other
matters at the bottom of the sea, which is tailed
-408-
oysters,
Caleb. In 24 hours it begins to have a fliell ; and
by the law of the Admiralty Court in England,
in the month of May, the dredgers have liberty
to catch all oysters ; but with a knife, theygentlV
raile the I'iuall brood from the culch, and then
they throw the culch in again, to preserve the
ground for the future. After the month of May
it is felony to throw away the culch, and punilh
able to take away any oysters, lels than the big.
liefs of an half-crown piece, or when the two
ihells being shut, a lair fliilling will rattle between
them.
The brood of Colchester and other oysters
are carried to creeks of the sea, and there they
throw thtrn into the channel, which they call
their beds or layers, where they grow and fatten ;
and in two or three years, the finalleft brood will
arrive to the proper lize. The oysters they would
have green, they put into pits about three feet
deep, in the fait inarfties, which are overflowed
only at spring tides, to which they have sluices,
and let out the fait water, until it is about a foot
and a half deep.
105
13°
9 i
60
416 *
In these pits they are fufFered to continue fix
weeks or two months, in which time they become
of a dark green. The oysters, when the tide
conies in, lie with their hollow/hells downwards,
and when it goes out, they turn on the other fide.
They remove from their place, unless in cold
weather, to cover themselves in the lioufe.
The oysters are lick after they have spat, or
spawn ; but in July they begin to mend, and in
August they are perfectly vvelj.
THE ART OF SPEAKING.
Lord Shaftesbury speaking of vsrbalfluency
terms it a disease, and calls it tbt leprosy ofthauence;
and Davenant writing on the fame fubjeift,
fays—"Both Prince and people are unfortunate,
who depend 011 those whose chief talent is the art
of speaking."
Oliver, Cardinal Ximenes, the Duke de Sul
ly, Sir Thomas Moore, the Cecils, Treasurer
Buckhurst, Walsigham, the CardinalsßicH
lieu and Mazarene, Secretary Thurlowe,
CorneliusdhWitt, and the Treasurer South
hampton, with many others, were not at all re
markable for this gift. The art is rather mm
tricious than viehtorious.
England, like Athens, has had its wisest conn
fels diflipated by the breath of oratory. The
merit of Fox, Sheridan, and Burke, confiftsin
words only.
William Taylor,
. Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, Bvrung-Sx. Ip,
Aflortnient of EAST-INDIA GOODS.
which are the following Articles:
BOOK Muflifis 8.4 6.4 5-4 |) HUMHUMJS,
Jackonet do. j| I.ong Cloths,
Hankerchiefs,of various kinds,|J Caffcw,
Chintzes, jj Seerfuckcrs,
("inghams, || Boglaporrs.
A Variety c f handsome painted MUSLINS.
With marry other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece or
Package, low for cadi.
By the Fijitors and Governors of St. John's Collegein the State 6j
Maryland, February. 10, 1790.
Resolved Unanimously,
That at the regular quarterly meeting on thefecondTuefday in
November next, the Visitors and Governors of St. John'*
College,clc& a Principal of the said College ; that it be the duty of
the Principal to superintend the College according to regulations
hereafter to be eftablilhed, and in conjunction with the Vice-
Principal, to teach the higher authors in Latin and Greek —and
the higher branches of science usually taught in other American
Colleges; and that he receive for his services, an annual salary of
£.500 current money, equal to £".300 fterKng of Great-Britain,
or I'SSS Spanish dollars, to be paid quarterly.
1 hat at the nex: quarterly meeting, on the second Tuesday in
May next, the board elett a master of writing and arithmetic in
f<iid St. John's College ; and that he receive for his services, an.
annual salary of £ .150 current money to be paid quarterly.
That Mr. Wallace, Mr. Carroll, of Carrolton, and Mr. Han
fon, be a committee to write a letter in behalf of this board, to
Do&or Price, Doctor Reefe, and Doctor Kippis,of the kingdom
of Great-Britain, inclosing a copy of the ResoLve refpe&ing the
appointment of a Principal; requesting them to recommend a man
proper to be elected Principal of St. John's College, and afTurinr
them, that if the man, whom they shall recommend, beapprovea
of immediate information thereof (hall be given.
That thefeveral Resolves for ele&ing a Principal and master of
writing and arithmetic, be publiflied in such newspapers as the
laid committee shall think proper.
Test, NICHOLAS BR ICE, Sec'ry.
The public are requeued to take notice that if a proper
chara&er in America shall offer, the Visitors are free to appoint
him; and that they wish to el eft a Principal, as early as iscon
fiftent with propriety, and the lading welfare of the College.
Any person defirousof offering himfelf either as a Principal of
St. John's College, or master of writing and arithmetic, will be
ple.ifed by writing to inform any one, or the whole of the com
mittee, consisting of Mr, Charles Carroll, now in Congress, Mr.
Charles Wallace, in Annapolis, and the Chancellor of Maryland.
The printers of America are requefled to insert in their respec
tive newspapers the foregoing Resolves and notifications; and to
inform their fellow-citizens, that St. John's College, after a varie
ty of untoward disastrous circumstances, was opened and dedicat
ed in November lafl ; that the plan of thisrifing seminary com
prehends two schools for philofaphy or the higher branches of
science, under the Principal and Vice-Principal—a fchoolfor the
learnea languages under a profefTbr, an ailiftant mailer, and ulh
ers to be appointed, according to the number of students ; and a
school for writing and arithmetic subordinate to the grammar
fohool ; that John M'Dowell, A. M. is already engaged as profef
for of philosophy—the Rev. Ralph Higginbottom, profefTor of
languages, and Mr. Patric M'Grath his afliftant master; that there
is a moral certainty that by the 17th of March, the number of
students will exceed fifty. Indeed from the fortunatefituation of
St. John's College, the amount and liability of its funds, the cha
racter and rdidence of its truflees, there is the faireft profpeCr
presented of its answering in the fill left extent the purpqfr o f 'ts
liberal and wi£e>lauiiclcrs, and benefaCiors,