C§>sze#o ofl
[No. ioy,—Vol. ll.j
THE TABLET
" Where 3 great Man is delicatc in his choice of favor t?s,every
" one courts with greater earoelluefs his countenance and ptoicc-
THOUGH a free and candid disposition is an
amiable quality, there are certain points in
which men should act with shyness and reserve.
The choice of intimate friends and favtorites is
one of the most difficult talks a person ever has to
perform. This difficulty encreafes in proportion
to the eminence of character any one fuflains.
When a man moves in an elevated fpliere, he
auft of course form a very numerous acquaint
ance. It will be requiiite for him to seleCt from
among them, some with whom he may be confiden
tial and communicative. He cannot easily dif
tinguifhthe chara<fter of iliofe who appear to have
claims upon his attention and confidence ; and if
he could properly eflimate them, perhaps poli
cy would forbid him to follow the diiftates ot his
inclination. A great man mult choose such favor
ites, as will meet with the public approbation,
though his own wishes might direct a different
choice. The public opinion may not only be
dilcordant, but it may be fickle. The fame man
may be highly efteemcd by one part of the com
munity, and detested by another. He may be po
pular one day, and odious the next. Thus it ap
pears a person mull ac r t cautiously inchufing his
confidents.
If men in the high offices of government are
heedless in the choice of their atlociates, it will
soon cease to be an honor to be ranked among
their favorites. But when there is delicacy and
judgment discovered in the choice, thole on
whom great men smile will deem themselves ho
nored by their notice. Worthy and refpe<!labl-e
characters will court their attention, and they
may depend on the good will and services of the
wife and virtuous. There is no remedy againlt the
inconvenience of bad counsel, but to have ve
ry few counlellors. If a public inanconiults with
many persons he probably may be deceived with
!refpe<ft to the merit of fomeofthem. He may
bellow confidence it is not deserved. But
this is not the worftof it: By having a great num
ber of intimate friends, a low value will soon be
let upon his friendlhip. It becomes too cheap and
common. None of his friends feel much refpon
lible for the effects of their advice, because the
refponlibility is divided among so many. It be
longs to every man to fix the price of his own
character: He will alvtays fetch what he is worth,
if he demands what he is worth. But if he tri
fles with himfelf, and sets a low value upon his
importance in society, the woild will'alfo think
him of little value.
A discreet line of condurt, and a delicate choice
of associates will give weight, if notluftre to in
different talents. Tliofe who rommitno mistakes,
•will be applauded for virtues they n6ver exercis
ed; and be refpetled for abilities they do not
poflels. Their influence encreales like money at
iiiterell. They meet with no lofles, and what
ever they gain is added to their capital stock. It
is hardly conceivable to what an high degree of
reputation, a man of prudence and circuinfpec
tion may attain. Aud there is nothing in which
a man should be more prudent and circunifpeci
than in the choice of his friends and companions.
ADVERTISEMENT.
' I "'HIS number commcnces the second voi umi of the
GI'XETf E OF THE UNITED STATES.
The publication wifl be continued upon its original pi an, vi/.
Be publilbed, Wednesdays and Saturdays, at the feat of the
federal Government—contain Sketches of Debates in the National House
of Reprefeotativcs—and the rtjult oj the deliberations of Congress—
THE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES—Ejfays and Paragraph?
en Politics, Finance, Government, Education, Arts, Agriculture, Com
merce, and Manufactures —Dvmtjbic and Foreign Intelligence, &c.
terms of subscription
Three dollars per annum, exclusive of portage
Six Months in advance.
The Editor acknowledges, with gratitude, the patronagt
"which the Gazette has received from a generous public.
Hisintereft must powerfully impel tofuch exertions as may enfun
* continuance of general approbation. The favors of his corres
pondents he hopes will be continued : Some new sources of sup
ply he expects will be opened—every hint for the improvement
of the publication will be attended to—that it may subserve the in
tcrefls of Virtue, Science, Freedom and Government.
Subfcribcrs may be fnrnilhed with papers to complete the
Fu 0 Vol. as far a.s the file.s of the I'fl'tortan Tnpplv them—grshs.
Api •( i.\- \"uo.
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY 'jOlifi PEKh'O, No. 9, MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK
No. CY
Payments t6 be
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14, 1790.
AGRICULTURE.
A Correspondent fays that it is with peculiar
•**- pleafurehe observes, that the Preadentin his
speech to both houses of Congress after recom
mending to their confidtrsltion other important
matters, has not omitted to mention, " The ad
vancement of agricukure, commerce, and manu
factures, by all proper fit-us And, «•< The ex
pediency of giving eftedtnal encouragement as
well to the introduction of new, and ufeful in
ventions from abroad, as to the exertions of (kill
and genius in producing them at home," and al
so, " That there is nothing which can better de
l'erve their patronage than the promotion of sci
ence and literature." That " The advancement
of agriculture by all proper means," in an emi
nent degree, demands the attention of every le
gislature is evident from the absolute necefluy of
it. For notwithstanding its indispensable nature,
it is still so little underltood by the generality of
those who follow it, that it is now capable of tli»
greatelt, and inoft rapid improvements under the
nurfing hand of government. It is not only the
tirft, but the molt healthy, molt honorable, and
most exteniively ufeful, and complicated of ail
employments ; to follow which, Kings and Emper
ors have laid down their Crowns, and Sceptres,
and, " f'eized the plough, and greatly indepen
dent lived For this is that art and science alone
on which all the reit entirely depend ; and is, of
itfelf absolutely necellary for the support of liu
i man life : And wherever it is neglected, or un
fkillfully prosecuted, whatever wealth n>ay be ipi
ported from abroad, poverty, and misery will
abound at home : For such ever was, and ever
will be, the fluctuating nature of trade, and com
merce, that thousands, who depend upon them,
may be in affluence to day, and in a ftat,e of beg
gary to-morrow ; which can never be the cafe of
those happy persons who, judiciously, apply ttyein
felves to the most noble, delightful, and indepen
dent art of hulbandry.. Such then being its an-
and 5 would it not be
good policy, in the Tupmne legillature, to nomi
nate, and appoint a proper person, with an ade
quate salary, to continue in office for one year,
or during pleasure, with the appellation of Far
mer-General ; to make annually a tour of the
itate, or states, under their jurifdicftion to regiftcr
the state of the crops, the belt mode of culture,
of folding, and hay railing, and distributing the 1
manure, &c. &c. And the recent improvements
that have been made in any and com
municate, to those who may be willing to lparn
what he knows himfelf, ar has learned frqn} the
experience and practice of other? ; and to
honorable mention of all those Owners, Stewards,
or Overseers of farms whole industry, method,
and prcfeverance may entitle them to it. This
would naturally intpire men of all ranks with an
extraordinary fen fe of the importance ofadue at
tention to this so much neglected art,, and with
a landable emulation to «xcel one another in
what so manileltly tends to their.own, and their
country's honor, intercft, and linppinefs. And
this officer of infpeition and information,by keep
ing a journal, and making notes, and oblervati
ons upon all proper occaiions, to be examined,
and publiflied annually under the of a
committee of agriculture, may colled; an amazing
fund of praitical, agricultural knowledge in a
few years, as into one grand reservoir, from
whence it would continue to flow oil, in numerous
enlightening ttreams, to theremoteft parts of the
empire. " The expediency of giving effectual
encouragement as well to the introduction ofnew,
and ufeful inventions from abroad, as to the ex
ertions of skill, and genius inproduceingthem at
home," needs no comment. But, lieverthelefs,
it may not be amiss to suggest, that enacting a law
to make provision for the authors of ufefuJ inven
tions, discoveries, or performances by granting
patents, or bounties to such, that it would be ex
pedient to make a provisional clause against im
positions, and surreptitious grants ; that all per
sons, when convicted thereof, fliall not only fuf
fer a pecuniary mulct, but restore to the genuine
authors, whether natives, or foreigneis, what
tiiey have tbus fiaudulently obtained, or make
the necellary surrender to government itfelf, of
all, and every thing they have unwarrantably
received, to be applied to the use, and emolument
of those to wlioin it my be justly due. But as to
the neceflity of promoting science, and literature
at the public expence (as it aannot otherwise be
done in any extensive degree) the belt comment,
that can here be given, will )je the President's
own following term of words at full length 011
Hkso
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN.
that head : Which display a justness, sincerity,
and energy'of thought andexpreffion so peculiar
to himfelf. " Nor am 1 less purfuaded that yon
will agree with me in opinion, that there is no
thing which can better deserve yonr patronage
than the promotion of science and literature.
Knowledge, is in every country the surest bafisof
public happinefs—ln one, in which the meafcires
bf government receive their impreflion so imme
diately from the fetife or the community asin ours,
it is proportionably eflential. To the security
of a free state it contributes in various ways :
By convincing those who are entrusted with the
public adminiltration, that every valuable end of
government is best answered by the enlightened
confidence of the people: And by teaching the
people tlieinfelves to know, and to value their
own rights ; to discern, and provide against inva
sions of them j to distinguish between opprellioii,
and the necellary exercise of lawful authority ;
between burthens proceeding from a disregard
to their convenience, and those resulting from'
the inevitable exigencies of fociety,to discriminate
the spirit of liberty from that of licentiousness,
■ cherishing the firlt, avoiding the last, and uniting
a fpeedy,but temperate vigilance against encroach
ments, with an inviolable respect to the laws.
Whether this desirable object will be best pro
moted by affording aids to seminaries of learning
already eftabliflied, by the institution of a nation
al univerftty, or by any other expedient, will be
I well worthy of a place in the deliberations of the
I legillature. Virginia Cazttti.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH if.
Report of Committee on the bUmorialt of iht people called Quaker r,
under confiderotion.
(Mr. Smith's (S. C.) Speech continued.)
IT has been feid that the toleration Of slavery brings dpwn re
proach on America. It only brings reproach w\ tHose wh<?
tolerate if, and we are ready to bear our (hare. We knorir that
none but prejudiced and uncandid persons, who have hastily
fidered tjie f bjeft and are ignorant of the real situation of the
Southern States, throw out these insinuations. We found slavery
ingrafted in the very policy of the country when we were born,
and we are persuaded of the impolicy of removing it; if it be a
moral evil, it is like many ofhers which exist in all civilizcd coun
tries and which the world quietly fubm t to. Humanity has been
a topic of declamation on this fubjeft : that sentiment has difFer r
ent operations on different individuals, and he bad it in his pow
er to Ihew, that humanity fir ft gave origin to the transportation of
flavcs from Africa into America. Bartholomew de las
bilhop of Chiapa, a Spaniard renowned for his humanity and vir
tues, in order to save the Indians in South America from slavery.
prevailed on his monarch to substitute Africans, which were ac
cordingly on the coaflof Africa and shipped to the Spa
nifb colonies to work in the mines : this appears 10 Robeitfon's
hiftoiyof America, which Mr. Smith quoted. At this day the
Spaniards give confiderable'encouragement to the transportation
of slaves into their islands. Mr. Smith read the e<Ji& for that pur
pose.
Another bbje&ion is, that slavery vitiates and debases the mind
of the owner of this fort of property. Where, said he, is th£
proof of this allegation ? Do the citizens of the Southern States
exhibit more ferocioufnefs in their manners, more barbarity in
their dispositions than those of the other States ? Are ciimes morp
frequently committed there ? A proof of the absurdity of this
charge may be found in the writings of those who wish to dissem
inate this m'fehievnus idea, am d,yet, in their relation of fatts, con
tradict it thcmfelves. They lay down general principles which
they take upon credit from others, or which they publish with fiw
nifter views, and wken they enter into a detail of the hiftorv of
those tfaey overset their own dottrines. Thus* one writer
tells us. that the Southern citizen who is educated in principles o£
superiority to the (lave? which surround him, has no idea of go
vernment, obedience and good order, till he mingles with the
liardy and free fp'.rited yeomanry of the north, and that after
mixing with tlvjm, he will return home with his mind more en
larged, his views more liberalized, and his affe&ions rf&ified*
and become a more generous friend to the rights of human na
ture : but hear what the Eastern traveller is to learn by vifitin#
the enflav'.d regions of the South t He will fee fays the fame writ
er immediately after, industry crowned with affluence* indepen
dence, Viofpitality, liberality of manners ; and notwithflanding the
prevalence of doroeftic slavery* he will find the noblest sentiments
I of freedom and independence to predominate ; he will extol their
enterprize, art and ingenuity, and will reflect that nature is wife,
and that Providence in the diftiibution of its favors* is not capri
cious* Take another striking inftaoce of this contradiction from
Morse's geography ; he fays, that there are more slaves than free
persons in South-Carolina, ajid mentions the mischievous influ
ence of slavery on their manners, which, he observes, by exempt
ing them from the neccflity of labor, leads to luxury, difiipatiort
and extravagance, and favors too much of a haughty, supercilious
behavior ; that the inhabitants want that enterprize and persever
ance which are ncceffary for the attainment of the arts and sciences,
that they have few motives to enterprize, and too generally reft
contented with barely knowledge enough to tranfaft the com
mon affairs of life. Now for the authors proofs : they are con
tained in these words : " Ma'iy ot the inhabitants spare no pains
nor expence in giving the highefl polish of education to theirchil
dren : literature begun to flourifli since the peace ; fevcral
flourif.'hing academies and colleges have been established ; the la
dies have an engaging foftnefs and delicacy in their manners ;
theatrical exhibitions have been prohibited by law ; gaming of
all kinds is more difoountenanced than in any of the Southern
Staff s ; all denominations of religion are on an equal footing ;
comi nerce is flotnifhing, economy is becoming more fafhionable,
and \ Hence begins to spread her salutary influence among the ci
tizen r'' But was South-Carolina, at the cortim en ccmcnt of thewar, with all her slaves, backward in her refiftane td Great-
Britain ? View rhecomlu&ot her citi/.cns, their zeal and ardor in
thecaufeof liberty; their valor at Fort Sullivan. Are crimes
anore frequent in that country than in the other States ? Are there
more executions ? I believe there have been as few as in any part
of the continent, and tbofe which have taken place have been ge
nerallyof emigrant convifls or fugitive wheelbarrow men ; he
would be bold to airert that in no State on the continent was there
more order, sobriety and obedience to good government; more
indultry and frugality ; nor was there any trace of the influence
of slavery on the charader of her citizens.
The French so far from curbing and cramping the African trade
with needless regulations, give large premiums upon every ne
gro landed on their islands ; in some instances as much as 200 li
vres per head. Is that nation more debaftd than others? Are
J hey not a polished people, (enfible of the rights of mankind, and
by proper sentiments of humanity f The Spaniards en
tourage slavery ; they are people of the nicest honor, proverbially
io. The Romans and Greeks had Haves, and are not their glorious
achievements held up as incitements to gteat and magnanimous
a&ior.s pSparta teemed with slaves at the tune of her greatest fame
as a valiant republic. The absolute power of the Lacedemonians
over the Helotes is frequently spoken of by the ancient writers ;
they were not only the slaves of the commonwealth, but of every
individual, they could not be set at liberty, neither could they be
fold ; hence arose a faying, that a free man at Sparta was moll a free
man, and a slave molt a flavc.
The system of the Roman policy with regard to slavery was still
Tnore severe : Slaves were not even under the protection of the
>»ws ; they <vere considered as things, inter res. A mailer merely
*rom capr.ce might torture, dismember, and even murder his
•slave. If a slave did any damage exceeding his value, he was de
livered to the person injured, who did with him what he pleased.
Yet these slaves were of the fame color as their mailers, and equal
to them in mental faculties ; many of them were men of great
Jearning, philosophers, poets, &c. Much had been said of the cru
el treatment of slaves in the Weft-Indies and the Southern States;
with refpefl to the l?tter, he denied the fa£l from experience and
accurate information, and believed in his conscience that tht
slaves in South-Carolina were a happier people than the lower or
der of whites in many countries he had vifiteo. With regard to
the Weft-Indies, Lord Rodney and Admiral Barnngton had both
declared that they had spent some time in the Weft-Indies, and
that they had never heard of a negro being cruelly treated ; that
they had often spoken of their happiness in high terms, declaring
that they ihould rejoice exceedingly if the Englilh day-labourer
was half as happy.—Some have Caid that slavery was unnecessary :
so far from it that several essential manufa&ures depended on it.
Indigo, cochineal and various other dying mateiials, which were
the produce of the Weft-Indies could only be raised by slaves :
the great staple commodities of the South would be annihilate
without the labor of flaves.—lt was well known that when the
African slaves were brought to the coast for sale, it was customary
to put to deatth all those who were not fold ; the abolition of the
flavc trade would therefore cause the maflatre of the people.
The crucl mode of transportation was another motive to this
abolition ; but it was to be presumed that the merchants would so
far attend to their own interests as to prefervc the lives and the
health of the (laves on the paflaze—all voyages mud be attended
•with inconveniencies, and thofefrom Africa to America, not more
than others. As to their confinement on board, it was no more
than was necefTary; as to the fmallnefs of space alloted them, it
was more than was allowed to foldicrs in a camp ; for the mea
surement of cubical air breathed by the Africans compared with
/hat of foldiersin a camp, was in favor of the former as thirty lo
fevcntcen ; it was full as much as was allotted in ships of war to
seamen who by the laws of England were frequently on their re
turn to their families after a long and dangerous voyage, seized by
violence, hurried away by a press-gang, and forccd on another
•voyage more tedious and perilous than the firft to a hot and sickly
climate, where fcveral hundreds of them were flowed away in the
"hold of a vessel. In cases of disobedience the Captain had a right
for flight to inflict on them corporal punishment without
the intervention of a court martial, and in other cases they are pun
ifhableby very feverclaws, executed by martial courts, eftabliftied
for that purpose. The fame may be obfei ved of the foldicrs, who
were frequently flogged severely for trifling offences ; inflances
have been known of their being put under the care of a surgeon,
after receiving a small part of the intended flagellation, to rtfy
them for the residue.
Having thus removed the force of the observations which have
fccen advanced against the toleration of flavcry by a inifguided and
misinformed humanity, I shall only add, that 1 disapprove of the
-whole of the report; bccaufe it cither ftatcsfomc power fufficicnt
ly expressed in the constitution which is unneccflary, or it sets
forth some power which lam clear Congrcis don't polTefs. The
concluding paragraph is an extraordinary one. In what mode
are the memorialists to be informed of our humane dispositions ?
Are we to fend a special committee to inform them ? Or istheSpeak
er to write them a letter, or the Serjeant at Arms with the mace to
wait on them ? In short, Mr. Chairman, the whole of this busi
ness has been wrong from begining to end, and as one falfe step
generally leads toothers, so has the hasty commitment of these
memorials involved us in all this confufion and embarrassment.
I hope therefore if any kind of report is agreed to, it will be
Something like that proposed by my colleague.
SATURDAY, APRIL 10
The bill providing for the punishment of certain crimes against
the United States, was read the third time, and pafied to be
ena&ed.
The report of the Secretary of the Treasury on the memorial of
the Baron de Steuben, was read the second time, and made the
order of the day for next Mojiday week.
A meflage was received from the President of the United States,
by his Secretary, informing the houfc that the a£l tor the en
couragement of ufeful arts has received his assent.
The order of the clay on the bill to regulate trade and inter
course with the Indian tribes, being called for, the house went in
to a committee of the whole—the bill was read.
Mr. Scot offered a few general observations on the fubje&, and
•after pointing out the importance of competent regulations to se
cure the peace of the frontiers, and to irnprefs the minds of the
Indians with friendly sentiments towardsthe people of the Uttitcd
States, said, that to effect these important objetts great care &jid
information are necessary in order to forming an adequate fyf
tem —the bill did not come up to his ideas fully—he therefore
fiiggefted the propriety of fending the bill to the senate—who not
being cfowded with business just now, would have time to form
a more perfect plan, than the house has time to.
A motion was made that the committee should rife, but this
being objected to, the motion was withdrawn.
The firft paragraph in the bill provides for the appointment of
a fuperintendant who is to be a military officer.
It was moved that tiie clause which contains this reftrittion
Should be llruck out.
The motion was supported by the following observations : It
was said to infringe the power of\hc JPrcfident, and in that -iew
is unconstitutional—that it may coumerafl the essential interefls of
the people, by precluding the Prefideut from appointing perhaps
the rnoft proper character in the United States. That persons in
civil life may be found fully competent to the bufmels, many
such pofTefs a perfett knowledge ot Indian affairs. The military
duty of an officer is fufficient to engage his attention—but this'bill
will convert him into a mere trader and speculator. Further it
was said, that it blended the civil and military charatters which is
unconstitutional.
In objcft'on to the motion it was observed t'nat a mi1.,1..ry cii-i
---ra&er is the mod fuitablc, being amenable to a court martial, and
therefore the mod eafilv called to accdunt, that they will proba
bly have the greatest influence with the Indian?. As to the con
stitutionality of the quellion, it is evident that the Frefident and
Senate arc reftriflcd in their appointments ol officer! to leveral o
ther departments. The Attorney" General invilt be a perlon learn
ed in the law, or, in other words a lawyer, &c. and as it is not
to be expefked that any person would be contented to go and rc
fide in the Indian country, who is debarred Irom carrying on all
commerce as is contemplated by the bill, it follows tbat militar)
officers are the only proper charaflers to be appointed.
Mr. Scott propoftd a full substitute for the clause under debate
which induced a motion for the committee to rife and report pro
gress, which motion was cairied in the affirmativ-.
Mr. Fitzlimons then irfovcd that the committee of the whole
ffiould be discharged from any further conlideration of the bill,
and that it be recommitted to a Teleft committee—after considera
ble debate this motion was negatived.
Mr. Bcnfon proposed a resolution in lieu of th: offered yester
day by Mr. Smith of South-Carolina for appointing .1 committee
to ascertain the time when the President, Vicc-f rejident, Senate
and Representatives commenced their refpe&ive offices, £lc.
Mr. Livennore objefled to the appointmcn ot any committee,
he said every gentleman may fatisfy himfdf by looking at his rom
miffion. If we choose such a committee, it will be thought that
our dcf.gn is to piotrafl our existence as the long parliament did.
Other gentlemen alio obje&ed. .
Mr. Benfon and Mr. Smith of South-Carolina explained their
motives in bringing forward the motion, ditfeient fentim'nts were
entertained, some iuppofed the two years commenced in Decem
ber others in March. Some gentlemen's commifiions are dated
alter March. Various opinions are entertained on the fubjeit.
and to prevent confufion, it appears necessary that Congress lhould
decide the matter—no other'body is competent to it.
Mr. Burke and Mr. Williamfon fpakc against the motion,
Mr. Sedgwick was in favor of the resolution fur appointing a
committer.
Mr. Gerry moved a refolutiou a little different from the last.
The difcufiion was not finifhed when the house adjourned.
MONDAY, APRIL 12.
Thecommittee of conference 011 the disagree
ment between the two houses refpedlingan amend
ment proposed by the Senate, to the bill for the
remifiion offines, penalties and forfeitures in cer
tain cases, having come to no accommodation as
stated in our last. It was moved, that the house
ftiould adhere to their disagreement.
This motion occasioned some debate. The vote
beingtaken it was carried in the affirmative.
On motion of Mr. Lawrance, the House went
into a committee of the whole on the report of
the Secretary of the Treasury, for making provi
fion for the support of the public credit.
The proposition for the assumption of the State
debts was read.
Mr. Sherman observed that the making pro
vision for the support of the public credit, is an
objecfl of the greatest importance. He was sorry
that the committee appeared to be so much divi
ded on the fubjeft.
The friends of the government were very ge
nerally concerned in effe<flu3l provisions' being
made for the pay inentof the public debts—and the
people in genefal he coiKeived were very much
interested in the decilions that shall take place.
He then entered into aconfideration of the as
sumption of the State debts, and recapitulated
the mast important observations in favor of the
measure that had been made in the former dif
cufiion of this business. He noticed particularly
the objections that had been urged from the im
probability of the accounts between the United
States and individual States beinjr ever fettled.—
»
Hefaid if the accounts are never to be fettled, this
is as strong a reaf'on as can be urged in favor of
afluir>ingth6fe debts, which had been contracted
for the general defehce. He could conceive of
no difference between debts, all of which had been
contracted for the fame purposes. Iftheacoeunts
are not to be fettled, justice seems to require that
the debts Ihould be made a general charge, and
the whole mass paid out of the common stock.
But he could not agree to the idea that the ac
counts would never be fettled. He then advert
ed to the arrangements which had been made by
the Congress under the old Confederation—the
progress that had been made—and the pradUca
bility of finifhing the business. Heconcluded by
faying that he thought it wife and just—and that
it would meet the approbation of the public in ge ■
neralto afl'ume the liquidated debts of the States.
Mr. White observed, that he conceived gen
tlemen had taken up this business on wrong prin
ciples. He then Hated what he thought the pro
per grounds on which the fubjecfl ought to be dif
cufled. He adverted to the principles which he
had before advanced refp?d;ing a previous settle
ment of accounts. He juftified the conduct of
members in advocating the intereftof their seve
ral States—the general interest can perhaps be
promoted 110 other way. Virginia thinks it a
gainst her interest to afl'ume the debts. Maflachu
fetts thinks it her interest that they should be as
fumed-—here can be no charge of local ideas
without a recrimination.
He then adverted to certain obfcrvations which
had been made refpecfting the eastern States, re
ceding from the Union—He could not suppose
the eastern States would find their interest in se
parating : But he thought it as proper to attend
to what would be the effetf: in cafe the debts are
afl'umed. He mentioned the proposed duties as
exceptionable, and theexcife in particular would
be very unpopular. Some petitions have already
been presented. It has been said, that aflump
tion would facilitate the settlement of accounts,
he thought the contrary would be the confequencp
Individuals would then be at ease. Another ob
418
jeftion is that it will eucreafe ilie ]>ul>li c debt—
which will lead to sanguinary laws— One law al
ready palled is tinged with blood, merely on at
count of theprofpect ofencreafing the evi<l encei(
of debt—We have made forgery death—which is
contrary to the maxims ofour ancettbrs. I n
land it was considered only as a mifderneanor
till the enormous addition to their debts took
place. Upon the whole he thought th-aH'mnn
tion a liieafure that would not meet the approb's"
tion of a majority of the people—and on«lit not
to take place.
Several other gentlemen spake on the occasion
—and various motions were offered to modify the
proposition—but they were all rejected— and the
queltion for the afl'umption being put was nega
tived—thirtyone votingagainll— andtwenty nine
in favor of the proposition.
After the question relative to the afTumption
of the (late debts had pafled in the negative,
Mr. Sedgwick rofeandfaid, I now consider the
question of the aflumption as ultimately neiraiiv.
ed. We are then in my opinion in a ITtuation
molt solemn and serious. In the name of thepeo
pce of Mallachuletts, who have honored me with
a feat in this house—in whose behalf my col
leagues and myfelf have unitedin representing
their fervjee? and fufTerings, do I addrefsyou—We
have demanded jultice—we have implored the
compallion of the representatives ot the people of
America, to relieve from the prefl'ure of intole
rable burdens—burdens incurred in support of
your freedom and independence. Our demands
and our entreaties have both been ineffectual.
Feeling as I do, on this important occasion, I
(hall Hand juftified to myfelf, and I truss to the
candor of every other gentleman, in what lam
about to declare : During the war, the govern
ment of Maflachufetts, the corporations and the
people all united in (training every nerve in sup
port of the common cause. To the remembrance
of every friend ofhis country, I-appeal. Toyour
public officers, and to the men conversant in the
tranfacftions of that day of anxiety and distress, I
appeal, for the evidence of that noble and difin
terelted enthusiasm, of those exertions and ser
vices, which were then as important as was your
efcapefrom slavery. Exertions and services which
were then acknowledged ; and however they may
be now forgotten,, or disregarded without, be
lieve me they will long be remembered within
that llate. Is there a man who does not believe
the exertions of Mafl'achufetts, compared with her
ability, were at least equal to thole of any of the
states? This has not, and 1 presume will not be
denied; was she less frugal! It is not pretended.
Does it not then follow, irreliltably, that the ex
cess of her debt must have been contraded for
national purposes ? Is there any one who fuppotes
that what they denominate the national debt, can
be securely funded, without invading thole ob
jects ot revenue, which are now appropriated for
the support of public credit, in that Itate ? Can
it be believed that the government or the people
there will voluntarily submit to facrifice the in
terelts of 20,000 men who adventured their lives
and eitates in the common cause ? Shall the iivlt
operations of this government which I fondly
hoped would move on national ground, andre
gulate its conduift by enlarged and liberal poli
cy, be the impoverifhnient offuch, and so man/
honest, confiding citizens.
Independent of the aflumption, there is not,
in my opinion the least reason to believe a fettle.
ment of the accountsof the individual states with
Lhe United States will over take place. The of
fer of justice 011 that contingency, is therefore,
little more than pretence on one fide, and lean
afliire gentlemen is felt to be little less than mocK
ery on the other—all these things make a deep
impreflion, nor will they easily be erased from the j
memory. It only remains, that 1 express direct- |
ly the purpose for which I rofc, which was to
warn, solemnly warn, gentlemen of the dan
gerous consequences, in the progress oftliis b:
finefs, of invading those funds which are P' eo '' |
cupied by that Oate. Let them then proceed and
fee whether without such violent and utijnft /
vafioii, it will be pratfticable to procure the nece f
fary-objetfls of revenue.
The committee then rose.
Mr. Gerry proposed a refolotion, that that
part of the Secretary's Report relative to the State
debts, be referred to a committee to consist of' v
member from each State. , . t
This motion was laid on the table for further
consideration, agreeable to therules of the hou e.
Adjourned. '
TUESDAY, APRIL 13
Sundry petitions were read, and refene
the heads oi' departments ; Mr. Vining 0
Committee appointed to bring in a bill to ena
the Secretary of Stare to appoint an
Clerk in his office reported the draught or a '
which was read. • I
A nieffage was received from the Sena.-
forming the House that they adhere to t .£! r 'j r
posed amendmentto the bill, for the rcmi
mitigation of fifies penalties and forfeit™ esi
tain cases
i 5
I'm
bot
iii
"Hi
Cd tr
Ueiv[-w.
a],
ac-
Mr. Ames moved that the bill to regulate the Poft-Officc of the
United States (hould be taken up : which being agreed to, the
house went into a committee ot the whole.
Mr. Livermore in the chair.
The firft clause of the bill was read
tea
i*
Mr. Wi lli a MSQK oblerved that according to the heft calcul
tion he could make, the income of the poll-office upon the fyften
in the bill, so far from producing the revenue which had been
contemplated, would not yield fufficient to support itfcjf; he
therefore moved that the bill ftiould be recommitted to a fcle6l
committee ; that the information >• ceived since the bill had been
reported, might be unproved to render it Jess defective ; Mr-
Boudinot and Mr. Fitzfimons were in favor of the committee's ri
sing, in order to recommitting the bill; the motion however be
ing obje£ted to, was withdrawn.
The clause which empowers the President of the United States
to establish poft-offices and poll roads, it was moved Ihould bt
ilruck out.
The motion was supported by faying that this is a power veiled
in Congress by an express clause in the Conllitution and therefore
cannot be delegated to any pcrfon whatever; the objrflj that are
connected with this power are of great weight in themselves and
are properly cognizable by the Lrg.flatureof the Urn on only
The words after lome debate were llruck out.
The prmciple of farming the Cross-Roads wasobiefted to bv
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) the dea of farming fa.d he is new ii this coun
try ;it is indicative of weaktiefe in the government. If the ro
wnmeK make a fate of the income of an office which fall, below
the vaUie, there is so much loft to the public ; if ,he lale i, abo«
the valuf—the farmer must indemnity himfclf by exto tion • he
moved that the whole clause resetting farming should be struck
;ion,
• ,r-» B .>T NO I ° br " Vtd , " lat V ht idca farming as contained
inthe bill, has reference only to thecrofs roads-,n general Port
Offices in those roads cannot be supported by the United States,
but at a loss : Still for the accomodation of ihe inhabitants in D ar
..c ar places, the Poft-Maltc,-.General Ihould be empowered tn
fftablifh such Port-Offices as may conduce to their convenient
provided the comment was put to no expence—the mhabitan s
cdVJhP nnm g n"°T fd thc poftagc ot the l «tei*, e ftablifli'.
cd such Pofl-Omces. But there appears to be a propriety thai thr-
Poft-Mafter-Gener»l should farm out those cross road'! which
may be prndufhve. '
Mr. Am es advocated the claufc-he observed that Great-Bri
lain in consequence of farming thc Poft-Office, had made the
come prod,giouOy produft.ve The general objeft.ons to farming
he admitted were well founded, but the present objea was per-
Aaps the least exceptionable of any that c an be mentioned.
The motion for striking out this clause was negatived
and made
The committee then rofc,'and the house adjourned.
ranee
your
eft, I
difin-
1 fer
i your
vhich
■ may
t, bt.
'ithin
The Aflembly came to the following resolution,
the ground of the qualification of a citizen to
vote forreprefentatives, and to enjoy all the ad
vantages of an active citizen.
" The National AHembly cohfidering tliat
they are obliged to establish Tome conditions by
which a citizen is to exercise his rights, have
thought it their duty to make thele conditions as
easy to fulfil as polfible ; that it is not by the
price of work in art. naturaUy Jubjedt to much
Tarianon, but on that of the tillage of the earth,
lhat the price ought to be fixed ; and, therefore
they declare prov.fionally, that in fixing thedai'
v P rlce ot labour, necellary to become an attive
citizen, they mull not exceed the sum of twenty
sols, without pretending on this account to chancre
the superior prices now laid on, which maybe
paid for such labour in different provinces "
When they finiflied their labours, M. Rabaud
de Sr. Etienne made a splendid speech.
" All Frenchmen have already perceived, "
:lieve
thher
)f the
iot be
:d for
>poses
t, can
e ob-
Ifcr
Ctl
fakl he, " the utility of the diVision of the king
dam, and nothing can be a greater eulogy on the
nation and the age—nothing can more demon
ftrably prove the ascendancy of reason in the
Winds of a people filled with patriotism and in
telligence, than the uniyerftl adhesion of all
parts of the empire to this great and general re
form. It is in consequence of that quick dif
cernmenr, of that profound sagacity which feeins
to take the place of inftinft, and which has late
1} characterized the trench people, that in the
space of one month, all the provinces, all the
cities, all the citizens, have applauded the rege
nerative decrees which have substituted the poli
tical equality of all parts of the kingdom in the
room of a inonftrous and contradictory inafs of
inequalities, of which antiquity, chance, abuse,
pnviledge, favour, and despotism, were the
chaotic materials. That which Lewis XIV.
"would not dare to undertake, that which he would
not have been able to atchieve, the Nation could
conceive, approve, and accomplish in the course
of a few months;—it is the interest of all to feel
and recognize this great truth—that despotism
commands, bat it is reason only that persuades."
January 21.
<Jn Monday last a letter from Conflantinople
read at rhe Nationly Aflembly, full of enthu
la.'c ex preffioiis in praise of liberty : it seemed
as if eloquence had dictated every line. The Se
nators were filled with aftonifhnient, and the il
n.on was really such, that they thought they
hearing a citizen of Sparta, or Athens,
pea mg from the Dardanels. And in faift the
etter was written from a gentleman who had
°!.' uen 'he voluptuous lifeofthe French metro
po is or the purposes of visiting the ruins of those
ancient Republics—it was M. de Choifeuil-Gouf
r, tiie trench Ambaflador to the Porte, who
nt a thousand Louis (500 for himfelf, and 500
name of some Turkey Merchants) to the Pre
cnt of the National Aflembly, with compli
es, and congratulations to his free country.
s not ;
fettle-
e dan
tis bt>
preot
trd and
mft in
necef
at that
,e State
ift oft
'urther
house.
red to
of the
enable
itionsl
a bill*
Lte i n '
; r pro
ion or
in ctr
Aristides" came too late for this paper.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
Paris "January ij,
PROVIDENCE, April 3..
Last week Mr. Abner Merrifield, ofMedway
n the •■State of.Maflaehufetts, havin e purchased
p°»teC"h Ch ' ll "a""' wa
£on w 1 S , hor,,eSVard Wlth tbe g«ods in a wag
gon, when Ins property was seized by a revenue
ofheer, and lent to Bolton—By act of Coiizrefs
feked ?i!if T g&>a and team * re
on 1 Mr m 0 OUr out ofthe uni-
ei '7 field ® dealt « this town, and
expei-ded much money therein.
Laws ofthe United States
CONGRESS OF THE UXJZZO STATES :
ft j » 1 . AT THE SE ° N » sess+on.
Begun ,nd held at ,V C,«> N, w-York, on Monday the fourth
Of > uary, one thouttid seven hundred and ninety!
An AC r to p- omoce the Progress of ufeful Arts
Si-ESP--—•sSftss
i fcov r 'T g r I ' 'or 'hey, hath or have invented or
..(covered any ufeful art, manufacture, eng.ne, machine orde
Vice, Or any improvement therein not before known or us d and
praying tnat a patent may be erant'-d ihriL-foi ir rK,tt j
be ~w t» | t0 an p d f llc > fald Secreta!-y of Sute,
R Department of Wn, and the Attorm y-Ccneral or anviwn
rfefuiTnd y """ d "' m r'" ' nvc " ,inn " r discovery fufficLtly
na're ofthe'if " lc " Cr^P atl ' nt to ™de °»<the
nHed Sta ~V, I u° Prrnd "" «*'■" U
ution rd Vf k" R J" al! . c p" ons ' ind luggethous of the said pe.
L f'l i i S 'hefc'd invention or d.fcovery,clearly, truly
and fully, and thereupon anting to fuchpetitioner or petitioners
or , th,:lr ht rs ' •>dm,ni(lrators or assign, forany term no!
exceeding fourteen years, the 10l • and exdufive right and liberty
the^id' nS ' con "K' "fins =nd vending to others to be used'
,' n , V k n a°" ' Jr d,fcove, y • whlch letters-patent lhall be de
edk A,to L rn "- Gcn «>l °f the United States to be exainin
" dayS neXt aftcr thc delivery to him
'f he (hall find thc fame conformable to th.s ast, certify,! to be so
the p e r°T u nt 'n! nd pref!:nt thc le »«-"-P"ent, so certified to
the Prefidcnt, who (hall caule the (eal of the United States to he
thereto affixed, and the fame lhall be good and available to the
PurDof °h gralUC " by f °: CC °[ thls ast ' to a " and --very intent and
and (ha " bf record «> in a book to be
Kept tor that purpose in the officc of the Secretary of State, and
£ i P V Cnt " his a ß cn t» and the delivery thereof (hall
entered on the record and indorsed on the patent by the (aid
Secretary at the time of granting the fame. X
oatem P" 3 ' 4 ! Th ' l ' th ° S rantc< " or grantees of each
patent (hall, at the time of granting the fame, deliver to the Secre
tary of State, fpecification in writing, containing a description
accompained with drafts or model,,** explanations
*I , tbc " st " re of the invention or difcoverv will admit of a
model.) o. the; thing pr tliuigf, by him of them invented or dif
rifi", " "«ref» ] dii» thofaid patent*; which fpc
onlv '°!1 ft and said /nodrls so exact, a, not
only to d.fting.ulh the invention or difcovcry, from other things
before known and used, but also to enable a workman or otlir
person, (killed in the art or manufacture, whereof it is a branch
or wherewith it may be nearest connected, to make, conftruft or
use thc fame to ;he end that the public may have the full benefit
thereof, after thc expiration of thc patent-term ; which fpecifica
tion (hall be filed IP the office of the said-Secretary, and certified
copies i hereof, lha 11 be competent evidence in all Courts and be
fore all Jurifdifttons, where any matter or thing, touchingor con
cerning furh patent, right, or privilege, (hall come in question.
And be it further enar'ted, That upon the application ofanvper
■ <>n to the Secretary ofSiate, for a copy of any of such fpecificati
on, and lor pcrnvffion to have fimibr m">del or models made, it
(bail be the duty of the Secretary to give such copy, and to permit
t e person so applying for a similar model or models, to take, or
make, orcaufe thefametobe taken or mlide, at thccxpcnceof
luch applicant.
And be, tfurther enatlcd, That if any person or persons (hall de
vtle, make, conftruft, use, tmpioy, or vend within these United
V aies, any art, manufacture, engine, machine, or device, or any
invention or improvement upon, or in any art, manufacture en
gine machine or device, thefole and ex'clufive right of which,
I,c so as aforcfaid granted by patent to iiny person or persons
by virtue and -n purfuancc of this ast, without the consent ot the
patentee or patentees, their exccutors, administrators or affiqns
hrlf liad *nd obta:ncd in writing, every person so offending, (hall
a "d P a y 'he said patentee or patentees, his, her or their
"" ut , or '- ariminilirators or assigns, such damages as (hall be
(red by a jury, and moreover (hall forfeit to the person aggriev
ed, the thing or things so devifcd, made, aonfirufted, used, em
ployed, orvend.d, contraiy to Ihe true inient of this ast, which
ma> be recoveied in an action on thc cafe, founded on this act. *
And be it further ena&ed, That upon oath or affirmation made
before the Judge of the Diftrift Court, where the defendant re
(idts, that any patent which (hall be iiTued tn purfuanceof this ast,
was obtained furr- ptttioufly by, or upon falfe suggestion, and mo
tion made to the said Court, within one year aftcr i(Tuing the said
patent, but not afterwards, it (hall and may be lawful to and for
thc Judge of the Diitrift Court, if matter alledgcd (ball
appear to him to he futh' ient, to grant a rule that the patented ot
patentees, his, her, or their executors, adminiftraiors, or assigns,
(hew cause why process (hould not issue against hibi, her, or
them, to repeal such patents; and if fufficient cause ffiall not be
(hewn to the contrary, the rule (hall be made and there
upon the said Judge (hall order process to be ilfued as aforefaid,
against such patentee or patentees, his, her, or their executors, ad
minilirators, or assigns. And in cale no fufficient cause lhall be
(hewn to the contrary, or if it (hall appear thathhe patentee was
not thc firft and true inventor or difcovcrcr, judgment lhall be
rendered by such Court for the repeal of such patent or patents;
and if the party, at whose complaint the proccls issued, (hall have'
judgment given againfl him. he (hall pay all such costs as the de
fendant shall be put to in defending the suit, to be taxed by the
Court, and recovered in luchmanner as costs expended by defend
ants, shall be recovered in due conrfe of law.
And be itfuithcr enacted, That in all actions to be brought by
such patentee or patentees, his, her. or their executors, admini
flrators, or afligns, for any penalty incurred by virtue of this ast,
the said patents or fpecifications shall b t prima facie evidence, that
the said patentee or patentees, was or were tiie firft and true in
ventoFor inventors, discoVerer or difcoverersof the thing so fpeci
fied, and that the fame is truly fpecifitd ; but that nevertheless, the
defendant or defendants may plead the general issue, and give this
ast, and any special matter whereof notice in writing (hall have
been given to the plaintiff, or his attorney, thirty davs before the
trial, in evidence, tending to prove that the fpecificauou filed by
she plaintiff dors not contain the whole of the truth concerning
his invention or difcovcry \ of that it contains mote than is nc-
419
published
M^ dr , > ' r t^ Prod M C - l ' 1C ef r ea ck ' frr!i > Ed ; and if .the concealment of
P® . the addition of more than is lic-eflhrv, Uiall ; ,i,n eartn
fpc'c fi ( vl r n ', C3,,not bC i'V the
,be a S&i" "" Verd,£t a " d JUdgmtm
wfmih"^ U " , "' r \" 7,121 such P 3,cn!f e »» afrtrefaid, dial',
IT:: pd , ,cm ' pa >" ' ~C f«» W the fevcral
FW en, P'°y^'» waking out arid prrf«ti:r T uk f aß , r , .
catin r n CC ' Vmg i' ng thc P elitlon > ! lf; V c ™.s ) for hit:,,; Ipecif.
canons, per ctyy-iheet coii-*i,iin s (me hundred. word*. t'r-n crtii,
dZhr ,"* P a ' em -, ,w " dDll^; ; for atfix.ng great feat, one
tcntee 'in T d *i " f de,lvmn S !he •"« to the pa
tentee, including all intermediate services, twenty cents
FREDERICK -AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG,
, „ Speaker Of the Ihuje of Reprefntatwr*.
JOHN ADAMS, I'tcr-Prcfient aj the Unittd Slxtr'.
ami. Pnpdcnt of t(ie HenuU,.
Approver, Aprm. the tenth. 1700
, 'WASHINGTON, Prejident of the United Stales
{ 1 it i/E Copyy
THOMAS JEFJXRSON, Sccrctary of Stair.
New-york, april 14.
F-xtrnCls fromjurjry letters to a gentleman in this city.
Ma * ch 2j. but there are many wife men among thfcm.
who are good state pilots ; it is however hard labor for them to
get the ship along agamft such an undertow, and the/ir/runnlnj at
the fame time : We may give them a hinf when wc conceive theV
are o»t or the way, or move tooJlotufy in the right way.
April i. The flow progrels in public business, excites very
general concern. The Anties laugh : The friends to the National
Crovernmept mourn. Why does not rife up and fay « Everv
man has madeup his mind, therefore let us talk lefi and vote more."
It appears to me that Congress are like some physicians, who have
long attended a paticot, that they have moll perUQW allured will
be well ; but the cure not being performed, the fufferer and
his friends are much rtiore fenfihle of the lapse of time and th<-
consequent loss, than the honest doctors are. Whether this fimilc
properly expresses the idea or not, the plain truth is, that by a del
lay ot the capital concern of the nation, public credit the
umverfal expettation has been difapp jinted, and the public'coji
ndence conliderablv abated—while local state politicians are fur"
nifhed with pretexts for keeping up the cry of » state fovereien
fy." 6
Ar>t it 4. The members ought to bear in mind that their con
ititucnts in general think their pay is high, and was established
without much loss of tme.. I conlefs myfelt mortified with the m
decifion of that assembly, which ou s ht to strike the world with
Its wisdom, energy and d.fpjtch—Men of fentimen: are aftomfli
ed and extremely disappointed;
" - .a , r .... i n> .
F.xlrad oj<l Yrttt, from Phiiidrlphia, April
-- L - •' * 1 - L..r.. r •
lamSt a lofj to know why th£ tiii,din ;; business has lain ovei
Report fays fomthing about a coropromife' icfarfling the affump
iion : Time is passing and I begin to in nk they will fay bye and
hye U is too lato in the fe(Ti.,rt to go thro with such important bu
nnefsas funding the debt, Ac "
ExtraS of a Letter 'from GnrgeTotun, Aftiiz, t 7 g o .
I cjn with pleafurc inlorm vou tint within three weeks past wt
hove had arrivals of at least 30 boats, at the mouth of Watt's
Branch, 14 miles from this, load d with flour, wheat and tobac
co-many of them from the head waters of Potowmac. I have
seen several of the Boatmen, and they are much pfeafed with the
navigation The Powtomac company's hands are now at work
•in the rocks at the great talis. I hope they will get through that
work this prefeflt year," then the boats may pal's to the little fall?
fLTic" hrncc; " the lower pan df which as
ot Mill Stones might run, as would manufacture ,00 bar! els of
flour per day, where ships could go up to the spot.
" There is no fcrfcßion in this -jjorlJ" the lov
ers of discord and confuiion, derive all their con
sequence from the universality of this idea.—ln
a tree State it unfortunately happens that there
are always more persons disposed to condemn
than to applaud—but the misfortune to the pub
| lie is, that censure is generally more grateful
than approbation —ft is apparent from the tenor
of certain recent ftrictureson public affairs, that
the objeift is men, and not measures ; in this mode
of pursuing their objetft, the disappointed fhe\r
their wifdom—for the universal acquiescence of
the people in the measures of adminijtration, pre
cludes them from all hope of fuccels in attempts
in that line ; but if a stigma can be affixed on
charattcrs, and the public confidence fhqken a> itl
destroyed, the mifchievousdefigns of an antifede
ral junto may be effetfled.
The Hon. Mr. Lie. nd the Hon. Mr. Gu nn, Senators of the
United Sidles, arrived in this city on Sunday evening last.
Yea. rday was married by the Reverend Buiki, offici
ating Rtttor of the Parish of St. Peter, in this city, the hon
Lewis William Otto, Charg* des Affaires of his most Christian
Majelty, to Miss Fanny de Crevecoeur, daughter of the hon. St«
John de Crevecoeur, his Mod Christian Majesty's Consul for the
Stales of Connecticut, New-York, and New-Jerfcy.
TO fund—-or not to fund, that is the question !
Whether 'tis better toafTume the debts
By States contrafled for the gen'ral weal,
And by a lib'ral scheme of finance, prove
No little, local motivesguide our sages.
In Congiels met, to plan a nation's fate,
And fix the credit ol the States forever ;
Or—by opposing—end both Credit
And the Debts together—■
A consummation devoutly wifli'd
By tbofe who sicken at our growing greatness ;
For in that vote what ills may lurk,
Deftruflive of our concofd—peace, and honor !
When the long patient Creditor!,
Whofc puifes fay'd us in the trying hour,
See faith and justice flee the land,
And hope, no more support their honed expefbtios,
Say, Ihall we not combine a host,
'Gainst Revenue— Congress, and the Union ?
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW.YORK,
Packet Rorbuck, Cowfe, Fakn uth, 42 days.
Brig Carolina, Mead, WilmnKMn, 6 days,
Brig Betfev, Motley, 9 days.
Sloop Jennv, 'Schermehotn, Sfwnna, 16 d»y».
Sloop Leah, Fowler, Dirty, Nova Scotia, 14 day«.
Sloop Phfcnix, Bartlett, Wilmington, 7 days.
—Slpop Venus, Belknap, St. Myth's, 17 days.EUROPE A N INTELLIGENCE
EAST-INDIES.
THE following information,fold to be broug it
by an Imperial Indiaman arrived at Oltentl,
is of a more recent date than thedifpatches bro t
by the Swallow packet. „
Tellicherry is not in the poflcflion of 1 ippo
Sultan. That this old and inveterate enemy to
the peace and prosperity of the company, and
Hindoftan in general, has inverted that for.refs,
will not admit of a doubt ; and at the failing ot
the above ship from that quarter ot the globe, his
numerous army was so disposed as completely to
prevent the poflibility of any provisions or <uc
cours being thrown into that garnfon. 1 re^ 10 " s
to this invertment, in the month of March lart, he
entered the dirtricfts of the King of Cotiote, who
as well as the Sovereign of Cartenaddue, and
Prince of Charika, fled with tlieir families, or re- |
tinues, at his approach : The latter was, however,
unfortunately discovered inlns place of conceal
ment, by a detachment from Tippo Sultan s ar
my and, by his. express orders, immediately put
to death, and his remains were afterwards treated
with the moll shocking and difgraceful indigni-
The account of the French garrison being about
to evacuate Pondiclierry, has no foundation what
ever in truth.
NETHERLANDS.
The States General of the Unired Netherlands
have at length fet:led the terms of'a Federal Union.
Art. I. All the Provinces agree to unite and
confederate, under the denomination and title of
" The United Belgic States."
Art. 11. Thev agree to form and concenter a
monc thcmfelve's a Sovereign Power, limited to
their mutual defence—the right of making war
and peace—raising and paying a national army I
making and repairing fortifications—forming
and concluding alliances oftenfive and defenlive
with foreign powers—fending and receiving am
hnfl'adors, residents, agents, &c. the whole of
which, without diftimftion, fhnll be done by and
under the sole authority of the power thus united,
without any reference to the refpe<ftive Provin
ces ; each of which, however, will have its due
influence, through the medium of its Represen
tatives, in the deliberations that lhall take place
relative to the different objects included in this
Treaty. ,
Art. 111. For the cxercife of this Sovereign
Power, there shall be a Congrefsof Deputies from
each Province, under the name of the " Sovereign
Congress of the United Belgic States."
Art. IV. The Provinces shall always profefs
the Roman Catholic and Apostolic religion, and
inviolably maintain the Unity of the Church ;
and the Congress shall, therefore, be bound to
follow andmaintain connexion with the Holy See.
Art. V. The Congress alone shall have the
power of coining money, in the name of the Uni
ted Belgic States, and to fix its standard and value.
Art.'Vl. The Provinces of the Union shall
make provision for the expences attending the
cxercife of sovereign power in the fame propor
tion as under their last Sovereign.
Art. VII. Each province shall preserve all its
ri«htsoffovereignty, its laws, liberty, and inde
pendence, in -all cases except those in which they
have mutually agreed to cede them to the Sove
reign Congress.
Art. VIII. In cafe any difference shall arise
velpetfting the general contribution towards the
expences of the State, or any other objed what
ever, either between the Congress and one of the
Provinces, or between one Province and another
the Congress shall endeavor to fettle them amica
bly; but mould the endeavors of Congress fail,
then each Province shall, at the requifltion of ei
ther party, nominate a person to fettle the mat
ter in dispute s and both parties shall be bound
to abide by the decision or award that shall be
made by the persons thus nominated.
Art. IX. The United Stated pledge and bind
tliemfelves mutually to aflift each other, and to
make a common cause, as often as any one of
them shall be attacked.
Art. X. One Province shall not be at liberty
to contract any alliance orengagement withano
ther Province, without the consent of Congress.
The Province of Flanders, however, shall be at
liberty to re-unite with Weft-Flanders, on condi
tion that each shall have its Representative in
Congress, with a right to vote freely, and with
out contronl.
ART. XI. The Union shall be permanent and
irrevocable.
Art. XII. Civil and military powers shall ne
ver be trusted to one and the fame person—No
Member of Congress shall be employed in any
military service, nor shall any officer in the army
be capable of being elecled a Member of Con
perfons in the service of, or receiving a
■n-iifion, under any name whatever, from any
foreign power, shall be incapable of fitting in
Congress; as shall likewise all persons who, after
the of this treaty of union, shall ac-
cent of any tide of honor, or any military 01 o- i
ther order of knighthood,from any foreign power.
The Members who ligned those a j"» c l es ere
.Jfcfrom Brabant, H.in.,1,, rl«m,(h G«.M«r
land, Namur, Flanders, Tournay, Welt-Han
ders, Tournaifis and Mechlin.
The dates of the Province of Limbourg having
met the sift of December last, sent to the Gene
ral Aflembly three of itheir Members-Tlhe Abbot
of Roldu'c, the Baron de Negri, and M. de Lai
fault de Sainte Marie. .
But theft three Members did not sign the atti- |
cles of Union, as their principals had not autho
rized them so to do, although the states ot Bra
bant, who had always been on a footing offnend
lliip and alliance with those of Limbourg, had
sent to the latter the relolution by which it was
declared " that the Emperor had forfeited his
So \Vith S a ty view, therefore, to determine the
States of Limbourg to accede to the union, it was
resolved that a body of the patriotic troops ihould
march into that province, and take pofleflion of it.
It was hoped that there troops would pars the
Meufe at Liege ; and on that account a letter was
written by the heads or the patriots to Burgomar
ter de Fabry, who received it on the 9th mitant,
aC Bu?the Prussian General, de Schlieffen, with
out whore content the Burgomasters, it teems,
would not, or could not, comply with the wiihes
or the Patriots, refund to comply with them, be
caure he prerumed a similar requisition would be
made by the court or Vienna; and it he was to
comply with one, he could not with consistency
refute to grant a similar request, if it should be
made by the Emperor.
Another circumstance occurred, which pre
vented the patriots from taking pofleflion of the
province of Limbourg. It was the defeat or a body
or 800 Brabanters on the 13th inlt near Roche
rort where they left 300 dead on the field.
It'is now determined, that as the patriotic
foice cannot pals the Meufe at Liege, they fhnll
crols it at Vifet.
FROM THE FEDERAL GAZETTE.
Mr. Brown,
Several misrepresentations having appeared in the
American papers, relative to the cnndutt of Admi
ral Paul in the fer-oice of Ruffia,and
to the cause of his leaving that country, 1 rcquefl I
viay be permitted, through the medium of your pa
per, to lay before the Public the following trartftati
on of a letter front Count Segur, the minister pleni
potentiary from trance, in Rujfia, to Count Mont
morin, the mini fttr for foreign affairs at the court
of Versailles, together with an article that-was in
serted, in the French Gazette, in order that these
documents may rettify any miflakes the Public may
be under, relative to 'the conduEl of that brave officer.
A Friend to Justice.
Sir, St. Petersburg, 21 July, 1789.
THE enemies of Rear Admiral Paul Jones,
having ciiculated reports without foundati
on, relative to the voyage that officer is on the
point of undertaking, 1 could wifli the article
sent herewith, the authenticity of which I war
rant, to be inserted in the Gazette of France, and
in the other public papers which are under the
control of your department. This article will un
deceive those whom calumny has deluded, and
will prove to the friends and countrymen of the
admiral that he has supported here that reputati
on, which he acquired by his bravery and talents
in the lait war ; that the Einprefs is desirous of I
keeping him in her service, and that if he quits
this country at present, it is entirely of his own
accord and for particular reasons that cannot in
the leall effecfthis honor. The honourable marks
of the fatisfa&ion and goodness of the King
which Mr. Jones polFefles—his attatchment to
France, which he served so ufefully in the com
mon cause, the rights he has as a fubjeift and ad
miral of the United States, to the protection of
the King's ministers, and my personal friendfhip
for this diftinguiflied officer, with whom 1 served
a campaign in America, are all motives, which
appear to me fufficient to juftify the interest 1
l,ave taken in every thing that has concerned
him during his stay inßuflia.
I have the honor to be, &c.
LE COMTE DE SEGUR.
Signed,
St. Petersburg/!, July 2T, 1789.
REAR Admiral Paul Jones, being on the point
of going to France, where particular busi
ness demands his presence, had the honor to take
leave of the Empress the 7th of this month, and
was permitted to kiss the hand of her Imperial
Majesty. This officer, so celebrated for his brilli
ant aiftions during the American war, was called
intothe service of her Imperial Majesty iu 1787 ,
who intruded liiin with the command oftliefliips
of warftationed on the river Lit/tan, during the
campaign of 1788- For his condud: during that
campaign, the Empress has decorated him with
the Order of St. Anne ; and her Imperial Majesty
fatisfied with his services, has only granted him
permiflionto absent liimfelf for a limited time,
and continues him his pay and rank.
420
FROM AN ENGLISH PAPER.
A MAN of the name of J. Maquay, who Htm
on the estate of James S. Malone, of Caf.
tie Malone, in the county ofClane, Efq; has ar
rived at great perfeAion in the art of breeding
ducks by an ingenious method, from a ■very in.
considerable number of old ones, which when
they lay fix or eight sets of eggs, he puts unden
hen ; fh'e fits oil them for a week or ten days ; he
then places the eggs on a horse dunghill, and
takes care to turn them every twelve hours, till
they are hatched, which is generally inainonth;
but he can force it a week sooner if he thinks ne
ceflary ; he then puts freih eggs to the lien, which
is keptconftantly fitting fortwo or three months.
He then mostly takes them from her at thetijne
before mentioned ; but in rainy or cold weather,
he lays the eggs before the fire, which answers
the fame purpose, by turning them every twelve
hours and bv those means lie raises every year
from ten or twelve Ducks, between five and fix
hundred young ones.
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59*'° W£ter-Street, ncprtbt
Fly-Market,
WHERE they negociate all kinds ofPUBLICK
SECURITIES—BILLS OF EXCHANGE, he. asufual.
New-York, April 8, 1790. t. f.
To be SOLD,
For CERTIFICATES, Or exchanged for LAXD,
TWENTY -Two acres of ground in the City of New-York,
fronting Great George-Street, Bowry Lane, and Grccnwich-
Lane. On the premises is a brick dwelling house containin|ten
rooms; a fmallcr brick house with four rooms; a house with a
brick front with two rooms :In each house is a Kitchen.and un
der the whole four cellars; a never failing spring is near one of
the kitchens; a frame liable and a coach-house with (labia
From the dwelling house both the North and the East rivers are
plain to the view. Additional improvements have been made
this Spring, the ground has been laid out for pleasure as well 11
for utility ; it is provided with variety of orchard and other fruit;
part of the land has also been sown with timothy and clover.
To be fold for certificates of the national debt, which will be re
'ceived at the nominal value. Dollars at 85. Or for good
even it covered with wood, provided it is fuuated on the lollop
ing rivers,or on creeks as far as navigable,communicatingwltlithe
fame, viz At the Potowmac above Alexandria,at James River a
bove Richmond, in South-Carolina, about one hundred miiesfrom
the sea Ihoie, on Santee Edifto or Ponpon river, or on Savannah
river. If not fold it piivate falc before the 15th of May, itwff
then on the above terms be disposed of by Public \ endueat the
merchants Coffec-Houfe.—For lurthw particulars enquire 0, Mr.
Polllkitz on the premises. New-York April io, 1790.
ADVSRTISEMENT.
BY order ol the honorable John Slofs Hobart Sfjoire,, oncof
the luftices of the Supreme Court of Judicature of the Staff
o\ New-York. Notice is hereby given to Paul Deyrell,rtow of
lata of Lone IflW, Trfouire. an abfeondin? debtor, and to* ll
others whom .t may conccrn ; that upon application, and one
proof, made to the said Justice, pursuant to an ast of the leg M
lure, entitled " an ast for relief against abfcond.ng and abfen
debtors" parfeft the fourth day of April, '" 86 ;. b V a , CrC .f" r
the said Paul Deyrell, he the said Justice has dii-eded all bithe
said Paul Deyreil's Eftatc, real and personal, w ' thm thls 1?'
be seized ; and that unless hefhall difcharfie h '^ cb "^ thl *
months after the publication of this notice; all his Eftatyah
personal will be fold for the payment and fat.sfaftionof hi -
ditors. Dated at the city of New-York, the twen
of March, in the yew of our Lord one thoufaod leven hundred
nd ninety. March 31. iaw 3 m>
William Taylor,
Has for. Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, Bu RLI NG-SIIF,
A General Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GO
Anvom" which are the following Articles.
BOOK Muslins 8-4 6-4 5-4 H HUMHUMS,
Jackonci do. il Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefs,of various kinds,|[ Caflas,
rhmi7cs ll Seersuckers,
Ginghams, II Boglaporcs.
A Variety of handsome painted MUSILIN .
With many other Articles, which will be fold by t e
Package, low for cam.
New-York City Lottery-
SCHEME of a LOTTERY, for the purpose of
fani Five Hundrti Pounds, agreabli to an A •
, ture of the State of New-York, palfed Bth February. 79°
s c
i PRIZE of
a
3
10
3°
5°
120
180
795°
8346 Prizes, ? 000 Tickets, at 40s. each, £ -soc5 oc0 °
16654 Blanks, >B«
Subject to a deduttion of Fifteen p
THE object of this LOTTERY be.ngto rttfe »|F, nf . lhe Cl;
advanced by the corporation for repairing RE.SS>
TY HALL; for the accommodation of COM*®. d T*
so much honor to the Architect, as we as cr c jie«Mty c f c
managers presume that their fellow '^ cns ,i a s thein cCC s ,
cur in promoting the sale of Tickets, o^'"
this Lottery will relieve them from a tax, w
be laid to reimburfethe corporation. .nwverY ' ,eot "
The above SCHEME is calculated in a • e
to adventurers,there not being two b l,nks . ?0n the ?' , t
The Lottery i! intended to commence which."'l,
Monday in Aucusr next, or sooner 1 m ,mbers *>".''
notice will be given. A lift of the fortunate num
lifhed at the expiration ol the drawing. . are a pp° in
Ticket! are to be fold by the subscriber ,
Managers by the Corporation. ..ojiiH l '"® 1
Isaac Stouttnbuxc.H, Ab p I(l TA ,D '
PEFER T. Costemiuj, J OHN
A'etv-Ytri, 6th March, 179°-
heme.
£. 3 OCO
JCOO
15 co
JOOO
■##>
tffl
£.3000
1000
s°°
200
100
5°
20
10
4
1800