[No. 108,—Vol. ll.j
THE TABLET.
THE Editor accidentally met with the fol
lowing Eflay, and thinks the remarks are
of such a nature as deserve publication.
FOR THE TABLET.
" Tl,erc arc cerUln '"uations where foppefcd evils are productive
of mach good."
A National debt attaches many citizens to the
government, who, by their numbers,wealth
and influence, contribute more perhaps to its
prefei vation than a body of soldiers. This ob
servation has been made by every one. A nati
onal debt not only prolongs the existence of the
form of government ; but it has a direift ten
dency to produce a wife and just administration
• This efFe»ft is not equally obvious. Every
measure tending to public good adds something
to the security of the debt. It is for the advanT
tage of the creditors to have that public, which is
their debtor, become rich. The fame reason ap
plies to the revenue laws. The creditors will
wish to bring into the treasury the moil money
with the least possible burden, or even difgult
to the people. This is equally true of the public
expences. This body of men will fee the public
money squandered with pain and apprehension.
Their influence will be exerted in fupportofa
system of frugality. It seems to be inanifeft that
the creditors will defxre to fee the public good
promoted, and of courfewill dread an opprefllve
and prodigal administration. It only remains to
calculate the influence that this body of men will
have, firft, upon the public opinion, and next up
on the government itfelf. In this country, they
are powerful by their numbers ; by their pro
perty ; by their patriotifin j for it was that which
made great numbers of thein public creditors.
They arejuftly denominated by the Secretary
" enlightened men." Their dispersed situation en
ables them to give a strong impulse to the public
mind in different parts of the country at th«
fame instant. Interest will wake when patrio
tifin flceps. As thefc persons have a common in
terest, and that corresponds with the general
interest of the society, felf love is combined
with the love of our country. They become
watchmen, and continue such, when other citi
zens, left interested, relax their attention to pub
lic affairs for the fake of their private concerns.
Much has been said in favour of republican jea
lousy. The creditors can never have ail interest
against liberty—for tyranny and public credit
cannot exilt together. Heaven grant that the
union and the public liberty may last forever. If
any expedient within the reach of human wisdom
can preserve those blessings, it is the unchanging
interest, which a powerful body of the belt and
wisest citizens will have in their fafe keeping—
who cannot neglect, and who will not betray the
trust—whom government cannot do without, and
who cannnot do without government.
Rome fell, an almost unresisting pray to a des
pot—why ? Roman liberty, as it was misnamed,
was 3 burden to every body, except to a few who
called their right to npprefe all others, liberty—
being made alternately the instrument and vi«fiim
ot tyranny, the weary world found even despo
tism, a pillow of repose. But if the best citizens
in Rome and in the provinces had really enjoyed
freedom, and their property had depended on the
security of the government, they would have ab
horred any change, and most of all a change
from liberty to tyranny. Caesar would have been
watched and obliged to seek fame in th# Senate,
or in the field, under their orders.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. IFN'NO,
T> Y examples we are constantly ta«glit, that of
•*-» all the subjects which engross any fliare of our
attention, there are few 011 which we can reason
with lo little certainty as on thecontingent events
involved in every political system ; or in the whole
train ol human affairs, any, in which we are found
to deduce such wrong conclufious, or where we
meet with greater disappointments in the expec
tations we may have formed. In the common oc
currences of life, our judgment assisted by experi
ence is generally a competent guide in conduc
ing us to the obje<fls we have in view ; but the
politician finds himfelf in a great measure with
out this advantage, and is often obliged to con
fide in measures warranted only by presumption,
while he is si equently mortified ill perceiving the
PUBLISHfcD WhDNKSUAVS A.ND SATURDAYS „ ;*» ,„. W , KAltilxm wotK
No. CVIII
SATURDAY, APRIL 24, 1790.
res ult ofluch plans as he thought were conceived
in wifdoni and executed with prudence, prove
the reverie of all he had proposed to himfelf.
1 was led to these reflections by a view of the
pi efent ltate of public ass airs in this country, which
appear so eflentiallv to contradict the pleaiing
reveries of the Philosopher, and the sanguine
hopes of the well-meaning politician. I will not
attempt to delineate the durk pkfture which we
a fliort time since prefeiHerl to the view of the
world—the painful traces ij: :hat Ctuation are not
yet effaced from the reflerting mind—l will only
revert to the dawn of that day America ap
peared ushering with majeltic splendor thro the
dark clouds which had so long enveloped her po-
Imcal hemifpherc— I will just re cal to memory
that terafo honorable in the annals of mankind
which gave to her a form of government, not the
offspring of violence, but the result of calm and
mature deliberation, directed by a view to the ge
neral good—and to thatflill more glorious epoch
when the hand which had so ably guided us thro
a long and perilous war, was called forth to dis
tribute the blessings of Peace, Liberty, and Inde
pendence— Knchanting Profpe<ft ! The irradiat
ing beams of pleasure broke on us with a lultre
aim oft too dazzling—the Wertern wilds of Ame
rica resounded in echoing her future glory and
the peaceful waters of the lakes arose into bil
lows fwelledby the general joy.
1 he happy unanimity and liberal policy which
marked the proceedingsofthe firflfelfion of Con
gress were calculated to confirm the most flattering
anticipation. Thefecond was opened by a speech
11 om the head of the nation, pure as the fountain
from which it ifiued, and urging in the most ex
prelnve language an early and eariieft attention
to such meafuresas would tend toeftablilh public
credit on an immovable basis, and restore to this
country that relpe<ftabijityfhe had lod in her'for
mer weak and confufed councils- To this end and
in conformity to a prior vote of government, the
Secretary of the Treasury reported a funding
fyifcejn, itamped the capacity of it 3 author,
and constructed on those Apsm national princi
ples which will alone lead us to national honor
—butalgs, every feature of this fair portrait, has
been wantonly distorted, or lays in broken pieces
at the several shrines of ambition, avarice, and
vanity—and the pride ofgaininga party athome,
or of leading one here, is found paramount to a
generous paifion for advancing the public good,
which is only seen to arise in the finoke of the
incense, burnt at the altars of State policies
Sad defalcations indeed in the aspiring hopes en
tei-tained from the late political revolution in this
country ! The failure of public measures is not
only to be attributed to the incapacity of rulers,
but to the palfions of ambition and resentment,
which are feldoin under control in men velted
with power, and where the degree of responsi
bility cannot by any human contrivance be made
adequate to the confidence reposed.
It is from the misapplication and perversion of
great talents we have every thing to sear—those
splendid abilities which are founded and intend
ed by providence to exalt national fame and pro
mote public happiness, operate in a contrary di
rection when abused ; and instead of procuring
honor, wealth and security to society, they in
volve in disgrace and entail inifery and disorder
on future generations.
It is to be hoped that the great neck ar, of Ame
rica, with all that superiority which belongs to a
cool and determined mind, will be found proof
againit the barbed fhafts of envy and interefled
ambition, and eventually triumph over both, in
his noble pursuit of the public welfare.
The free use of the press is the birth-right of
an American, which he will not consent to dilpofe
of for a mess of pottage ; it is the fan which kin
died that spark of liberty in this country, which
is fact spreading overall Europe, and bids fair to
illuminate the whole world.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUESDAY, MARCH 30.
The proportion for ajjuming the Jlatc debts under conjideration.
MR. William son observed that on a fubjeft which had
been handled by gentlemen of great information and abili
ties, he could not expect to offer new arguments, but as he had not
heard the arguments hitherto advanced, and as he differed very
much from the opinion of the late committee, it was a duty he
owed to himfelf, to the State he had the honor to represent, and
to the nation at large, to give fomc reasons why he conceived that
the debts of the several States ought not to be afTumed —He ob
served that the national debt had been ftatrd at 54millions ofdol-
AMERICANUS
Ukso
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN
art, the lntereftot thu sum is 3,240,000 dollars. The debts of
the individual States had been Hated at 115 millions, he helieved a
tew millions might be added to that amourit, for he knew that
many citizens of North-Carolina had good claims agaiftft the State
or the union not hitherto fettled, aud the State had inftrufted in
delegates to obtain a longer time for exhibiting claims again!) the
United States. He believed thecitirensofVirginiahad alfc many
cLiimj to exhibit, and when he tonfiderrd the present claims of
North-Carolina, were 6 or 7 millions of dollats ; he thought it
not improbable that the amount of the debts might be near p
millions—He would call it for the present 25; The inteieft of that
turn is one million and a balf. He thought that an annual tax of
;j,a40,0°0 dollars 1, a burthen I'ufficient tor the present abilities
»t tile nation ;he (?«> not cotnpiehend the 11 •_, ;heo-v, \\i. that
a great burthen is more ea&lv carried by making it greater • he
heartily wilhed a fafe voyage to the political veflel, but he 'had
tome apprchenfions chat with the propoled cargo (he may fink at
her anchors—He knew that the proposed ta* is small when we
conlider the number of our fellow-citijens, and compare it with
the numbers in fevera| kingdoms and the taxes paid bv them ; but
the facility ofraifiijg taxes by iinpoAs and excises, is according to
the number of inhabitants in any given (pace,
In the aity of Pans, where a vail body of people are collected
within a small space, the inhabitants are supposed by one species
ol tax and another to pay 64 livres per head : in other Darts of that
Kingdom it has been found difficult to colled tg livres per head
from the fubjefls, though France is well peopled and contains
many contidcrable cities.
Ii three times as much could be coHcHed in the city of Paris by
imposts duties andcxcifes as in the other parts of France, he con.
ceived that very small sums might be expected to arise in Ameru
ca from excises, and our impost mult decrease in proportion as
theinduftryandneceflitiesof the people increafe—Headmitcd that
direct taxes, as a land-tax or a poll-tax may be colkflcd with
lome degree of certainty, but he withed never to fee direct taxc.
lmpofed by the national government.
They (re dangerous because they have been the means of cruel
Oppreliion ; the Romans had never been completely miserable till
one of their emperors had the addrelj to introduce a capitation tax ;
he observed that his fellow-citizens in North-Carolina were not
in general rich, few of them were ioprovident as to lay up money ;
for this reason while he was entrusted with their concerns he
(houldoppofeeverymeafurethat looked towardsdireft taxation,
he withed never to fee the day, when tofatisfy a land tax, or a ca
pitation tax, a poor man's cow or horse might be takenfrom him
on which he depended for the support of helpless children. Let
the State debts be once assumed and you mull proceed; ifyutir
calculations are bad, and they are nothing more than pure con
jecture, if they are bad, and the impost and excise does not come
up to your expectations, the national honor tnuft be preserved
the debt is yours and must be paid, let the means be ever so hard!
It will doubtless be observed that the interest of the State debtjj
must be paid either by the several State? or by the union, and it is
indifferent to the people under what name they make the pay
mcnti. til is argument lie.alledgid Was extremely fallacious, for
alter the national legislature has imposed such taxes as might be
come general, the State legislatures may with great ease, and in
lomecafcs with great advantage to the citizens, impose other tax
es The produce of the flute, is different; the inhabitants hav.-
different modes of living, and there is a difference even in their
vices ; wherefore different taxesmight.be proper i such taxes mi fi ht
be ufeful to corrcft vices or restrain habits that ftiould not be in
dulged ; it will certainly be granted that the legislature ofthe ftatr.
in many cases can best accommodate the burthen to the strength
and feelings of the citizens. It had hitherto been confidercd that
the Kates owed certain duties, and that they had a certain quofi
oi services to perform, from the particular pohcy of fomc ofthe
Kates, their debts had depreciated greatly, certificates had been
Jd at Bs - 6d. in the pound, pqoplc would not readily be recon
ciled to the new creed, "that all the debts lately paid, arc state
debts, but all the debts not paid, arc national debts," especially at
this discovery is made after most of the certificates have changed
their original holders, and have passed for a trifle into the hands of
moneyed men. C liar's wife fhouldnotonly be chaste.but with
out suspicion—He conceived that a national legislature should be
extremely cautious how they adopted new measures, efpeciallv if
there was a fmgle hook to which the suspicion of personal mteretl
might be attached
The situation of North-Carolina he alledged was somewhat dif
ferent frotn that of her After states; commiflioners had ort fundrv
occafioni ilTued continental securities to the citizens of the several
states, independent of thearmy certificatesjtothe'imountof 4, Rgii.ooo
dollars; of this sum about f),ooo dollars had been ilTued to the
citizens of North-Carolina—the citizens of that state have hardly
any continental securities, because the state by one accident or ano
ther has been obliged to a flume the payment of the continental dehis
ce has alTumed debts to the amount of 6 or 7 000,000 dol
lars. In what manner arejhe citizens to be rewarded for allthur
labors and supplies. He prayed the committee would attend to
the operation of this new fyflem; other states since the peice have
laid taxes to raise money for paying interest, and that interest hss
been returned into the hands of their own citizens. North-Caroli
na has imposed heavy taxes for finking certificates, being part of
the principal of the public debt; the citizen has drawn no relief
fiom those taxes, and to crown his misfortunes he is not to get a
credit for the certificates funk. The state has also iflued paper
money to the amount of 200,0001. that is to fay, half a million of
dollars; some of this money has been applied towards paying the
late continental line of the army* and some of it has been employ
ed in buying up public securities ; the fccurities are in the treasury,
but the paper money is in circulation ; our citizens are to he taxed
for finking this money, and we are not allowed a diitount for the
certificates which are purchased by the money : will not this be a
double tax ? we are required to pay our proportion towards the
interest of other people's certificates—we must at the fame time
pay taxes towards finking our paper money, which is another fpr
cies of certificates ; but we are not to be relieved in the mean time
by discounting the interest cf the certificates we have taken up.
Patience itfell would complain of such injustice. perhaps we lhall
be told that the double tax may be inconvenient but we shall be
repaid oti some future occasion ; we shall get a credit when the
accounts of all the states are fettled and the quotas of the several
states are fixed ; in other words ue may expctl jujlice at the day of
judgment. He prayed it might be observed that the accounts were
not in a train to be fettled ; that they could not poffiibly be fettled
under any existing law, and Congress had not >aken a single step
from which he could believe that they intended to make any set
tlement ; the original rule for fixing the quotas of the several states,
" according to the value of lands and their improvements," had
long since been given up as impra£licablc ; Congress had substitut
ed no other rule in its place, if they.were seriously disposed to fet
tle the accounts of the several ftaterj and to render some measure of
justice to the most deserving, the neceflary steps were obvious. Jnforming a rule for fettling the accounts, he was persuaded that
North-Carolina would not appear to be illiberal, he presumed also
that (he would be dilpofed to make a generous allowance to the
several states for all services that had usually been called military ;
but he could not reconcile himielf to this system of assuming the
debt fir ft, and talking afterwards conceining its origin* It has
been oblerved that the state debts are not to be funded immediate
ly ; how (hall we account for this extraordinary zeal in declaring
absolutely that thev fliall be aflumed ? Are we afraid that the next
Congress will refute to do justice ? Are we desirous to cut off the
■poUibility of returning if we (hould change our minds on better
information ? One obvious benefit will arise from this sudden
adoption, a few meh who chanced to be near the feat of govern
ment, and were firft. possessed ot the fchemc, who flew to Caroli
na, and there bought up securities at 3s. in the pouud ; those men
-will be liberally rewarded, while his unfortunate fellow citizens
are left to pay a second tax for the fame object, and to complain
of the injustice of government. ,
On this occasion he said ho was not left to conjeflure what
•would be the sense of his constituents ; the late convention had
cxpreffed it fully in one of the amendments they had forwarded
to Congress, in the following words : u Congress shall not dtreftly
or indire&ly, either by themselves or through the judiciary in
terfere with any one of the States in the redemption of paper mo
ney, already emitted and now in circulation', or in liquidating
an<i discharging the public securities of any one of the States, but
<ach and every State (hall have the exclusive right of making such
laws and regulations for the above purpofei as they (hall think
proper."
In this amendment the convention had besi unanimous. On
thij occafiorx he was not only purfumg a measure that accorded
•with the sense of his constituents, but it was a meafurfc that' had
perfect justice for its object. North-Carolina asked for no favors,
Ihe fought for no advantages under cover of general resolves, (he
■was ready to account according to the spirit of the original con
tratt, a contrast that had not been altered by the new torm
of government, for justice was immutable. The new govern
ment could not be strengthened by hasty measures, much less by
any departure from justice.
Mr. Sedgwick said it had been reported abroad, and declared
in the house that those gentlemen who were in favor of the assump
tion, meant to prevent a settlement of the accounts of the indivi
dual dates, with the United States: To remove every obje&ion
arising from that source, he would take the libeity of declaring
once for all, and that in the most .unequivocal and pofitivelanguage,
that he did not now, nor ever had entertained such an intention,
and that he had the fulleft confidence that the fame declaration
-might be applied to every gentleman in favor of the measure.
Mr. Sedgwick said that the house after having exhausted the
fubjett in a most deliberate difcuflion, had again resolved them
selves into a committee, in consequence of the gentleman from
N. C. (Mr. W.) having pledged himfelf, in five minutes to demon
strate that by the afTumptionj the state he represented would be
defrauded of half a million of dollars. That he had attended very
carefully to the process of this demonstration, and perhaps it
might not be altogether time mifpent in communicating to the
committee the observations which had occurred to him upon it.
That he understood the gentleman to have declared that N. C.
had rendered fejvices beyond her proportion, that her debt cre
ated for national purposes, and part of which had been a&ually
assumed, was also beyond her proportion, that the accounts of
the individual states with the United States, would never be adjust
ed, and more, that there was an intention with the majority of
Congrtfs to prevent it; what conclusion was to be drawn from
this ? North Carolina would sustain an injury from the circum
stances dated, if the debt (hall not be aflumed ; common sense
would then di&ate that justice to N. C. required that the debts
ihanld be aflumed. This consequence however, was not deducea
from the premises; the gentleman had agreed that as N.C. inde
pendent of the alTumption would sustain an injury against which
she could by no other means be relieved, therefore he had tvijely
concluded that by the alTumption (he would be defrauded.
Mr. Sedgwick said the gentleman had further dated that N. C.
had been so unfortunate, that fomeof her confidential officers had
iiTued fraudulently 300,000 dollars in certificates; which certifi
cates, if the debt of that state should be aflumed, must be paid by
this government. If so, there could be no doubt but this govern
ment would indeed be defrauded, and N. C. would of course be
fubje&ed *o her proportion of the burden refu] ting from it: But
he wilhed the gentleman to consider whether the national councils
might not, aided by his wisdom and experience, be supposed to
possess neatly - as much fa g« city in detecting frauds and guarding
against their effe&s, as the government of N. C.
The naxt argument of the gentleman, Mr. S. observed was
flill more extraordinary, and indeed greatly beyond his compre
hension. That he'had stated to the committee that N. C. had is
sued paper money to a certain amount, with this money they had
purchafrd certificates ; here then he concludes the state had made
one purchase for which it (hould have a credit; flill, however,
this money i*to be reduced, which will be an additional burden
on the people. Here thtn it is supposed to have been proved a
double payment has been made, and yet it is justly concluded
that only a (ingle credit rs proposed ,to be given for this wonder
fiA operation. Mr. Sedgwick said he would llluftrate the ingenr
oui argurtient of the gentleman by an example exactly similar, " I
borrov" «« said he" of my friend an hundred pounds for which* I
pay him ny bond, the man at the time agreed upon for the
jpaynwnt of the money, applies for it, whereupon I with a fobcr
iace tell him, that when I received his money he was paid for it
hy mv bond, nd should he he so unconscionable ai to insist on
his monfcy, h#- would receive double payment. Surely any reafona
i>icm*n would be convinced by the argument. f° N- C.
.•pureh fed certificates with her valuable paper profiles, thi&isone
payment, fhc performs her promise are now double pay-
ments
Mr. Sedgwick observed that the gentleman had said, thatwhile
fomr- dates had made provision for the payment of the interest ot
the debt,' N. C. had not done so, Hie had redeemed the principal.
He said if indeed N. C. had neglected to make any provision for
the payment of the interest, and had caused the immAfe depre
ciation which would unavoidably arise from that iource, and had
then laid a fpecific tax payable in the principal, it was an argu
inrnt infinitely stronger than any he had fieard in favor of difcrf
mination ; but how it could operate againfl the proposed aflump
tion was beyond the powers of his mind to discover.
He further observed that the gentleman had produced the N. C.
amendment, as a reason agatnft. the assumption, that it had also
been declared to be a substantial argument against the meafurethat
the idea had never been contemplated by any bodkin the South
ern States until since the report of the Secretary. He said he
could not very well understand how the convention of N. C.
could propose an amendment with an intention to prevent a mea
furc they had never thought of.
The gentleman from North-Carolina had said he was sen
sible some of the states were unduly and unequally burdened, and
that he was willing to afford them relief when the accounts (hould
be fettled. At the fame time he was so candid as to declare that
he did not believe those accounts ever would be fettled. He said
that if the gentleman had pofTefTed less confidence in his own
powers of persuasion, he would perhaps have permitted at lead
one day to intervene between the one of those declarations and the
other.
" Thefc" said Mr, Sedgwick " are the arguments, the weigh
ty arguments, which the gentleman pledged himfelf fliould have
all the force of demonstration, nd in expv&ation of hearing
-which the majority qonfidered themselves authorised to suspend a
determination on a question the inoft important that ever came
- before this houfc ; a determination on which, the public mind has
long expfftcd with 3n anxiety proportioned to its magnitude."
Mr. Sedgwick concluded by observing that if the majority of»
the committee was influenced in their determination on this im
portant question by an enlarged, li beral and extended national po
licy, there could be no doubt of the result, but on the contrary,
if local and narrow ideas should prevail, he should despair of
fuccefs,and with it of those benefits which he had fondly hoped
would attend the administration of this government.
Mi. Williamfon, in reply to Mr. Sedgwick said that he had not
a fie r ted that North-Carolina had paid more ihan her proportion;
the gentleman does not hear well;he had said (he observed) that
North-Carolina had afTum«d-to herfelf, more than her proportion
of the continental debt. He repeated his lemark that there was
a design to prevent afettlement. Let the settlement firft be made;
and North-Carolina will cheartully concur in alfuming the balan
ces which may appear to be due from the United States—\but the
present plan is to get the whole funded, and let the settlement
come on as it will.
Mr. Page in opposition to afTumption said, it was a mcauire
which did not meet the approbation of the creditors themielvcs.
Some of the debts were contra&ed for purposes in which the left
were no more intended than a foreign nation. He then repeated
the observations refpe&ing consolidation ; the meafurc would tend
to that, and from that to monarchy. He enlarged on the idea of
a spirit of rivalfhip's giving rife to the debts of the fcparate States ;
they were free, sovereign and independent—were at liberty to con
trast what debts they plcafed and the United States were not bound
to pay debts contrfftcd from such motives ; he hoped the com
mittee would abandon the proportion and go on to consider the
reft, which are totally independent of it.
Mr. Goodhue, after obfervmg that,the comparative view of
the merits and ferviccs of the (pveral States has nothing to do with
the prelent question, said, the war commenced when there was
no legiflatiye body to represent the Union ; it was carried on by
paper money ; when that ceased, and the credit of the l-nited
•States was gone—they applied td the individual States ; Congreis
depended on the credit of the States, separately ; hence arofethe
debts of the States—and thus it appears demonstratively, that those
debts aie the debts of the United States ; contra&cd on their ac
count and which they are bound by every principle of justice and
policy to provide for. This obligation it appears is greatly en
hanced by this confederation that the funds on which these debts
were dependant, and from which the interest on them was paid,
is nowaflumed by the United States. The impost and excise un
der the management of the individual States was barely fufficient
for this purpose ; they have now nothing left, but the excise,
which is found to be very^inproduftive—the consequences of di
rest taxation have been severely felt. lam cleatly of opinion that
if W£ do not make this aflumption, the verv existence of this go
vernment will be endangered ; the competition for revenue will
excite such heats and animosities, as will destroy revenue alt<?,
gether.
He concluded by wishing that the fubje& might be taken up on
fair and equal principles—and from thence he doubted not, it
would appear a measure of indispensable neceflity and justice to
adopt the proportion for the assumption.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 20.
Sundry petitions were read.
A Committee was appointed on Col. Ely's memorial.
In committee of the whole on the Report of the Secretary of
the Treasury for the support of the public credit.
The 2d alternative,* in the following words was read, viz. -
To have the whole sum funded at an annuity or yearly interest of
4 per cent, irredeemable by any payment exceeding five dollars pr.
annum, on account both of principal and interest, and to receive
as a compensation for the redu&ion of interest, fifteen dollars and
eighty cents, payable in lands as in the preceding cafe.
It was moved toftrike out " five dollars" in order to admit a
larger sum, so that the ledemption of the principal should take
place at an earlier period than that proposed. This was agreed to,
and Six inserted.
The following propofin<J«t 66J dollars funded im
mediately at an annuity w y*Wly interest ol o per cent, irredeema
ble by any payment exceeding four dollars and two thirds of a
dollar, pr. annum, on account both of principal and interest ; and
to have at the expiration of ten years 26 dollars, and 88 cents,
funded at the like intcreft and rate of redemption." The propor
tion being amended to read as follows, was agreed to.
" To have 66§ dollars funded immediately at an annuity or
yearly intcreft of fix per cent, irredeemable by any payment ex
ceeding fix dollars and two thirds of a dollar per annum, on ac
count both of principal and interest ; and to have, at the end of
seven years, thirty-three dollars and one third of a dollar funded
at the likeintereil and rate of redemption."
Mr. Sherman then proposed to modify the rcfolution so as
admit of the following proposition— u That the debts contra&ed
by the several states for the common defence and benefit of the
union, ought to be confidercd as a part of the domestic debt of
the United States : That proper provision ought to be made for
the immediate debt of the United States; and that the faith of go
vernment ought to be pledged to make provision, at the next ses
sion, for so much of the dcbt3 of the refpe&ive states as shall have
been fubferibed upon any of the terms exprcfled in the last resolu
tion ; provided that fubferiptions (hall not be received tor a great
er amount, than the following sums, viz.
[Here the names of the several states were inserted without any
sums.]
That the remainder ought to be left to the refpe&ive states to
provide for, until a final settlement of their accounts with the U
nitcd States, for which settlement effectual provision ought now to
be made.
Provided thatjio debts be aflumed but such as have been liqui
dated in specie value, and evidenced by notes or certificates iflued
by authority of the refpe&ive States, before the day of
1790.
And if the creditors of any state lhall not fubferibe to the a
mount of the debt of such state to be aflumed as aforefaid, such
state (hall receive interest at the rate of 4 per cent per annum, on
the remainder of said sum, until a final settlement of its accounts
with the United States, to be applied to the payment of interest to
its non-fubferibing creditors, for which, and for the sums that may
be aflumed, the refpc&ive states (hall be accountable to the Uni
ted Sutes." *
Mr. Sherman being called upon to ascertain in what proporti
on he meant to fill up the blanks,read the following as a statement
of the debts owing by the states, and the proportions he wanted
to have aflumed.
AJfumption oj the State Debts, not exceeding thefums in the lajl column.
Due as per Sec'ry's Report. Sums to be ajfumed.
DOL LARS.
N. Hampshire.
MafTachufetts
Connecticut
New-York.
Ncw-Jerfey
Pennsylvania
Delaware
Maryland
Virginia
N. Carolina
S. Carolina
Georgia
19,300,000
These resolutions Were opposed with as much spirit as the ori
ginal proportion for the aflumption. The Committee rose with
out coming to a vote on them. ,
* In our la.si wdfiated that the feccvd. alternative wax acceded to : this
was an error ; it was proposed to rejlore it t but the proportion was not
then decided upon.
-14-
300,000
5,226,801
»»95M73
1.167,575
788,680
2,200,000
300,000
4,000,000
1,600,000
1,000,000
750,000
2,000.000
100,000
800,000 750,000
3,600,743 3,000,000
1,600,000
4,000,000
5,386,232
200,000
THURSDAY, APkIL 22,
Reports on sundry memorials and petitions from the Secre»?r V
at War were read.
Mr. Madison made the following motion : Mr. Speakrr
As we have been informed not only through the channel o l '
the newspapers but by a more c\trect communication, of (| h .
decease of an illustrious charatlej-, whop.* native genius has rendn
ed diftinguilhed ferviees to the cauie of faience and ot mankind m
general; and whose patriotic exertions have contributed in a h;<r>,
degree to the independence and prosperity of this country in par.
ticular—the occasion seems to call upon us to pay iome tribute to
his memory exprcflive of the" tender veneration his countrv fp f \
for such diltinguifticd merit—l therefore move the Lollowmg r.%
solution :
" The house being iniormcd of-the deccnfr of K NjA-i
MIN Franklin, a citir.etr 4ho ft native g< v us was not
more an ornament to human nature. than his various exer
tions of it have been precious to fc-ience, to freedom,and
to his country, do refold, as a mark of the venerat ion due ,
to his memory, that the member* wear the cultoinary
badge of mourning for one month."
On the question f thii motion paflfea without a division.
Mr. Partridge brought in a bill for allowing compenfatioofo I
John Ely, which was read a firft t:me.
Mr. Gilman of the committe- of enrolment, reported
that the committee had examined the bill entitled an ast fortfe
punilhment of certain crimes the United States ; v<hcr C .
upon, the speaker signed the said bill.
In committee of the whole on the report of the Secretarjof
the Treasury, Mr. Sherman's resolutions were again read, and*
interesting debate ensued but no deeifion took place.
FRIDAY, APRIL 23.
The bill for granting compenfaiiori to Col. John Ely, for hfj
services and expcncesas a surgeon to the prisoners on Long Island
during the late war, was read the second time, and referred to»
committee of the whole, to be taken into confidcration this day
week.
A report frortt thr Secretary of the Treasury pursuant so order*
of the house on the 19th January last, refpeftmg anv difficulties
attending 4»he-execntion of the revenue laws was read, and referred
to a committee, conhAing of Mr. Goodhue, Mr. Fitzfimoss, Mr.
Lawrance, Mr.Boudinot, and Mr. Lee.
Sundry reports from the Secretary for the department of war,
petitions and-memorials were read.
A petition and remonstrance from themerchan'sofGer;'own
on Potowmac, concerned in (hipping, was prefentcd by Mr.
Carroll, and read.
The report of the Secretary of the Trcafnrv on t'le metronalof
General James Warren, was read—this report beingagainllthe
prayer of the petition: Mr. Partridge ftatingthe circumftau
ces on which the application to the house was founded, noved
that the sum of 3801. be granted to General lames barren,
in full for so much {hort paid him on a warrant cfrawn inlrsfj.
vor on the state of Maflachufetts ; this motion was feeonded by !
Mr. Gerry, who likewise spake to the merits of the petition.
The question being taken, the motion was negatived.
Mr. AMEs,ff»id, that previous to taking up the order of
the dav, he wished to introduce a rrrot ion for the confidcratiofl
of the house ) he ohferved that it had been ailVrted in the :ourtc
of the debates riif the sffumption of the State debt?, thnt the State
of Virginia had.advanced for the common defence, beyond he
proportion s advantage appeared to be taken of such alfcruons;
ht thought it npcefTary that fa£ls fhoula he known—tn3t thecotr
mittee might ast with certainty in cOuduftingthisimportantcjiie!-
tion ; he therefore moved the followirig in fubftanre, viz-'Thlt
the Sopretaryinr ths r°" »
the house a statement of the troops including the militia, and ord
nance stores furnifhed by the rcfpeft'.ve States for the df
fence, during the late war.—This motion was opposed 3S tend
ing to procrastinate the funding business, and as leading to ex
cite invidious companfons rcfpe£iip-g the relative merits ana exer
tionsof theX/cveral States.——lt was however carried in the affir
mative, with this addition piopofed bv Mr. Bland, " ana that
the CommifTioners of acfctfurtts between the Staff? an
individual states, be dire&ed to furnifh an abftraft. ofrhe dim
ofthe several states against: the United States, fpecifviugtaeprm
ciples on which the claims are founded. On the aboverao
tion. the previous question was called for by Mr. Lee, wit.
was loft, and the main question agreed to,-28 to 26.
Mr. Gerry then moved, that the Secretary of the Treajon' f
directed to report to the house a statement of all payments sot 0
Indents and other paper, as well as specie which have hecni? e
by the several states to Congrefsfrom the commencement
eod of the late war, This was agreed to.
Mr Madison moved that a statement ol the !
ofthe several ftatesagainft the United States, should befurn.w
by the Commiflioner? —this was also agreed to.
The above report of the Secretary of the Treasury is veryfl.
nute and lengthy—the reading of it and the debates 011 0
motions employed the whole day—so that the House did not -
into Committee.
(Adjourned till Monday.)
fOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNI'.
MR. FEXNO,
IT was expefled that a spirit of accommodation woi
the minds of mofl of ourfiatefmen under the frej
that even facrificcs would have been chearfullymade
but we are sorry to find the time is not yet come,and
of the old leaven Jlill remaining.
I doubt the bufnefs of pa\in? the national debt '
proper groundj. ana that many of the members in the
atives are too much attached to the principles of the
able to properly of a ,<yW Svftem f/ Fi*"
cult\ appears to he a' nut 'hat part of the debt zen
dividual States ; and it might with us much propn
portion the whole, or to make a djcrminutwn m t,
contracted by our different Agents in Europe, as to'
ed parts of the domestic debt to be providedfor '
It was certainly right unde r the late government, f
rovifion in their individual capacities forJuch di hi.
o alTume on account of the Union, beciufe no bette
o pursue such measures now, would, defeat the hcjl
ution, and he fuiverfive of the foundefl principle
tional policy. ' W
The refufal of the States to relinquifk the debts, o* the P'/ a
would do them iniuflice, appears to me, to have nc J OUT ! ' o j! r , fifth
for Jurely an Ast that would put it in the option ojthe cret -<
scribe to the funds of the Union, could not operate agaivj a j
adjuflment of the accounts ; and retaining the debts wil no
the States on a Jooting of equality.
Every friend to the Union would be happy to fee a f)Ca rri
modate, when necejjary ; but J would ovlyajk m tnepreje" <■ \lt
into operation the great objetfs of tk,e government. »
bufwefs fhoxild lie over for the present, lam confident t a e
the States and their creditors will be as willing, to Jurun
the general government as any member of that bodyrwi c ryioS.
them. A CREDITOR OF THE
Philadelphia, April 20, 1790.
htranslated
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES
0111 "k S cf;iv
n ■ Mr.
"""cat.on, .
S T"" h»«rJ
y. " nit
Co, ~ntrv'f p ,
lrU •.A --
FROM THE LETDEN GAZETTE,
Publillicd by Stephen Lbzac.
LA Paper that is considered in Europe as the mod
authentic medium of Intelligence—and as such
circulates more extensively than any other si
milar publication.
E x trails from the LeydenCazette of Jan. 1, 1790.
BY a letter of the 7th of December from the
Ukraine itappearsthat Hassan Pacha,now
Grand Vifir had sent from Ifmalow a deputation
to Prince Potemkin with a letter written to
him by the Grand Seignior with his own hand to
alk if Prince Potemkin was charged with full
powers to treat of peace, and if he was, todefire
that negonations might be immediately opened
lor that purpose. Ihe Prince immediately sent
an express to Peterlburgh, and in the mean time
invued the deputies of the Grand Vifir to come
to Jafey, offering an elcort for their fafety '
WARSAW.
'frof Be*,,.
' *'31 not
,rrc^'n, lDl (
he cultoy
dvidnn.
' d Jr > «H,.
1
Extrael of letter of Dec. 16. The diet have re
ceived a letter from his Pruflian Majesty in whicli
lie offers his friendfhip to the republic, and alks
theirs, exprelfing his wiffies to lee it happy and
powerful, and defiling in concert with his allies,
England,the United Netherlands,&c. toenter into
connections with Poland which no intrigues may
disturb . that in this view he wiffies alio that the
future form of government which ffiall be given
to the republic, may be fixed and ertabliffied as
soon as polfible, since on that form will depend
the future happinefsof the country; that he was
well aware how difficult it is to introduce a new
form of government in a monarchical country
and how much more difficult Hill to remedy the
vices of government in a republic—but he wiffi
cd they would immediately undertake it, and
communicate to him the plan of a new fyltem.
The deputies of the towns have demanded
from the diet—l. That the commons be restored
to their antient rights. 2. That commoners and
llrangers be assured of personal protection. 3.
That commoners be allowed to own lands. 4.
I hat nobles and commoners may be made capa
ble ot mutually inheritinggooids from each other.
5. I hat commoners be declared capable of all
employments ecclesiastical, civil and military.
That the commoners be fubjt tft to public juris
dictions only. 7. That commomers be allowed to
communicate to public bodies thei'r ideas 011 com
merce, See. 8. I hat all the cities be allowed to
fend Nuncios to the diet, and to iinftrudt them,
and that the influence of the cities on the govern
ment be no more infringed, but Umplified. 9.
That commoners as well as nobles l>e chosen in
to the comini(lions of the Treasury and Palati
nates. 10. That in the tribunals for the cities
there be as many commoners as nobles.
' SfcntJ.
Htr. .
[nt"i Ety
n onUjj
">d fpn*
lcuiioj |W
inrfiim n'J
; »n? dih
Fiiz. r itg«^l
lartmnfrf,
I'SofGf-v, 1
refentcd 3.
ban..-,,;*
1? the cirrwii
touiidcdf
Jama ;ir.
tfravn nhi
wai frfoniH f
of fr M
wet-; j;,
einffli
Wltfoi;
>- (iu( ri» Mr
ihnpfcqrt
Mr, W. '711
/A>4/fcfer
'uiu, i Maori
lit pal llr.
yx »trti-
Ma|lt Or
«<»*»*•
rfUbrf
A**,*
People here now publicly express the advan
tages they should derive from becoming the fub
jectsof a powerful Prince able to protect them ?
iht ik<t«
tr. lit, »'»J
th
Letter Dec. 22. Every thing announces that
the coming year will be interelting. The cabi
net is very busy, tho secret, it is obvious, that it
looks towards Poland Prince Tallonowski is
come to succeed as Minister for Poland here, the
Prince Czartoriski who returns to Warsaw ;
one objecfl feenis to be an alliance with Poland,
and that it enter into the grand alliance forming
under the auspices of his Pruflian Majesty. The
fate of Daiuzic will probably be decided at the
fame time. Our preparations for war are no
longer secret ; our court has approved the con
duct of Monsieur Dohm in the affairs of Lie^e.
PARIS.
ik«T«fr»
mcoittn*
,&W
ut iiA
rsna&l
mkU\
Letter Dec. 2J. The term of the second Prefi
dencyof M. Freteau beingexpired, M. Demeu
nier was .proclaimed his f'ucceflor in the feilion
of the 22(1 of this month, having had 430 out of
887 votes. M. M.uonet had 326 ; in the ses
sion of the preceding evening M. Brunet de
Latuque, deputy of Nerac, made a speech filled
with sentiments of equity and justice, to fliew to
the aflembly that the edid: of 1787, concerning
the non-catholics* excluded those citizens from
places in the municipalities, which comprehend
those of judicature ; that the decisions of the as
sembly not having abrogated that law, it might
be used in the formation of the municipalities as
well as of the aflemblies of diftritft and depart
ment, againlt citizens meriting the fame rights with
others. He therefore moved that the National As
sembly fliould explain itfelfon the capacity ofnon-
CaHiolics, not only tobeeletfted in all thepartsof
administration without exception ; but also to all
employments civil and military, as other citizens.
Tim I -
\t Sim"
in »■<"'
fktf""'
'lien r>"
rrd'U"'
f
Ml If'*"
M. tie Roeperer made the fame motion in favor
of comedians—and the count deCiFRMONT-ToN
nerre proposed a resolution in fuchgeneral terms
that the Jews would have been comprehended,
i he discussion of these motions was refmned the
23d of Dec. and yesterday it was concluded by a
resolution, which will form an epoch in the an
nals of the world, and which renders France at
this day the 1110 ft tolerant country of Europe. It
is in these words : " The National Aflembly de
clares, 1. That the non-Catholics, who fhnll
fill' 1 ' 1
if'l'.K
i
iir *5
tst
DANTZIC
BERLIN.
otherwise fulfil all the conditions prescribed in
their preceding rules for electors, or persons ca
pable of beingelefted, may becliofen in all parts
ot adminiltration without exception— 2. That the
non-Catholics are capable of all employments, ci
-1 and military, as other citizens—witiiout mean
ing however to atfeet the cafe of Jews, on which
theafiembly reserves a right of deciding, and
moreover without that, that any other causes of
ineligibility may be oppofed,but those whkhrefuh
trom the principles of the Conization." This
ladclaufe refpetfts the comedians.
GHENT.
A letter of Dec. 27, fays, that the most perfedl
order lws prevailed in Bruflbls from the firft mo
ment ofthe revolution. The Belgic nation, and
Mr. Vandernoot, their leader, have great mer
it for their sincere efforts to prevent all excefies.
He ,s chosen President ofthe General Committee
ofthe Belgic Provinces. People now begin to look
forward to the future form to be given to our
government. Some think, as the Prince is depri
ved of h:s rights, the Sovereignty reverts to the
people, and does notfurvive as a property to the
tew m poffeflion of it—that the right of reprefen
particularly flmuld be equalized—that the
difhntftion of orders should be fuppreflbd, or it
would be only a change of mailers—others think
that the Ducal power being abrogated in the per
son of the Emperor, the States, as at present form
ed, are entitled to continue in the government,
and that they muff not give into the dangerous
novelties of their neighbors—it may happen that
the consequences oft his revolution may be more
extensive than its leaders intended. The Prince
DMrfmbsro, who was a member of the National
Aflembly of France, is come to offer his services
to the States of flanders : Some irregular impri
(onments have been made, which difVuft the na
tion.
BRUSSELS, Dtc. 21.
The Austrian troops evacuated 011 the 20th the
city of Ruremond, and all the provinces. The
States will aHemble in three days.
LIEGE.
The revolution of this place wears a favorable
a<P«!t— not only his Pruflian Majesty, but the
etfior Palatine, as Duke of Juliers, leem dispo
sed to proted: it.
(To he continued.)
LINES,
Written at Sar.l.l Cruz, in the Island of TenmJ, and sent to Don
na Antonietta df. R . a Spanith young Ladv.
BY PF.TER PINDAR. Es«.
In the vianncr oj Srt nser.
BEIIOLD Ln Ihefe lorn shades a damsel dwell ;
X ween the faired among# all the fair ;
A while doth Virtue bid her farewell,
To lite with Sy l via palling •. ft compare :
Eke Innocence doth leave her gentle bower above,
To join her gentle Sifter of the grove.
Yet what airaileth, beauteous maid, thy mien.
To mortals driven from thy dark ictreat ?
Ah ! what thy sparkling eyne of peerless sheen,
Sith lovers are forbidden from thy feat 1
Soothly of little value is the reft,
Whose bell unfecn in dreary defait blows.
Soothly 1 the balms of Araby the blest
Are nought, if unenjoy'd their fragrant stream I
What is fair Luna in her filv'ry vest,
If ne'er (he fheweth to the world hv beam ?
Then break like Luna from her cloud of night,
And glad us, lovely virgin, with thy light.
For thee the Poet heaveth sighs how deep !
Yet, yet unheard, they mingle with the wind;
Ah ! Virgin, well invartlefs lays may weep,
Sith Spenser hapless plain'cl for Rosalind ;
Spenser whose sweet Song far furpaficth mine,
As Rosalinda's beauties yield to thine.
Yettruft me, fair one, I will verse indite,
And thou the fubjeft foft, to bring me praifc;
Tho'love be cruel, yet for laud I'll write.
And immortality must crown my lays;
For lith thy charms so much delighted fame,
She'll fuffer nought to die that holds thy name.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY
Paris, February 10.
Report of the Military Committee.
This report is ordered to be printed—the prin
cipal articles contained in it are as follow.
" The King of Frenchmen is the Supreme
Chief of the military forces by land and by sea.
No military man can be broken ordifmifl'ed fVom
his employment without a previous trial. "That
no law or ordinance whatever fliall be eflabliftied
nnder any pretext whatever, which fliall tend to
exclude any citizen from holding a military
rank.—" That every military man who fliall re
tire after fix years service, fliall be entitled to the
privileges of an a<ftive citizen."
The report further orders, that the King ftiould
be requeued immediately to favour the Aileinbly
with his ideas concerning the organization of the
army, that it might then deliberate on the seve
ral obje<fts which concern the legislative power.
February 13.
The King, accompanied by the Queen and the
Dauphin, went yelterday, the nth, to visit the
hospital of the Enfans-tiouves. His Majesty ex
amined the eftablifhineiu with regard to its most
minute economy, and appeared mgch pleased with
its regulation. A croud of people followed the
carriage—the streets thro which it pafled re-ec
choed with the cries of Vive le Roi ! Vive xe
Reine'! Vive i.e Dauphin ! and fatisfa«ftion
was painted on the faces of their Majesties.
15
The Commons of Palis hr.ve made an order
that t.ie King s fpeecli in the National Aflbmbly*
be en grsved under his buff in their hall
.. PARIS, February o.
1 ■ ,n S ~ las at le;ilt obtained one part of his
object, 111 going to the National Aiiemblv on the
M -i"! thC p , e ° ple fecm so well l-'iisficd of
his Majesty s good intentions, that he is to be )*>,-
nutted to go to his hunting feat at Rambouillcc
tor a few days. It is further mentioned that a
motion is shortly to be made in the Assembly co
break all the National guards, having 1,0 further
occalion for their services
r C . rcdu<aio » of expences, that of foreign
Embafhes is to be considerably curtailed
The last lloi.e of the Baffle's dungeons wns
presented on Saturday last to the.National AlTem
bVf> , the workmen who demoliflied those infer
nal regions.
ROME,
n-u"l* r\ Tl l e tr . la ' of Cagliost'ro, who is
,i)I clolely confined, ig carried on very cautiouf
atu ecr ® t 'y- we c a» learn is, that ou the
iothbe underwent an examination wliidi lasted
five hours and an hair The next das (SurUkiy)
the Pope I'ead all that had pafled, and immediare-
Jy ordered him to be loaded with iron chains, and
to be manacled. We are afl'ured that he was at
the head ofa conspiracy against our government,
which was to have been put into execution in the
night of the 12th of next month.
MADRID, (Spain) Jan. 25.
The last letters received from Algiers mention
ed, that the plague had again made it's appearance
in the diffriifi ofMafcara.
LONDON* Feb. 13.
Weaie told, that a diablution of Parliament,
will take place in May next. The neW Parlia
ment to meet in June or July ? at the latter end
of which month, their Majesties, and the three
elder Princefles will go to Hanover.
The Prince of Wales is to preside at the Coun
cil appointed for the management of the Affairs
of State, during the King's absence.
Two pitflures of Poulfin, which the late Mr.
Delme purchased for 400 guineas, were fold this
ay at hisfalefor 16 30g5. Lord Afhburnham was
the purchaser. A Claude was bought by Sir Geo.
Beaumont for joo guineas.
The additional duty on newspapers lias not in
created the reVenue—on the contrary, the duty
on ltamps decreased 42,000!. in the lafl; half year.
NEW-WINDSOR, April 14.
Some days ago, a huge rock on that end of
Butter-hill (Highlands) which adjoins Hudson's
river, was discovered to leave its" bed, near the
Ann 111 it of the mountain, and proceed with sur
prising rapidity down the sleep, making a tre
mendous noise, and tearing up either rocks or
trees that opposed, until it plunged into the river.
This wasohferved by two fifhing boats who nar
rowly escaped being dashed to pieces by it or the
number of (tones and fplinrers of rocks that ac
companied it, or of being fwanipt by the confufi
on it made in the water. They supposed it to be
of about seven feet diameter, its removal was
occasioned by its being undermined by heavy
rains, as it flood 011 a very sandy spot.
MARBLEHEAD,
April 3.—The highest prize ill the State Lot
tery was drawn by a number of Females in this
town : About 30 were joint possessors of that
fortunate number and five others; the highest
share in them did not exceed one dollar, and the
lowest was nine pence, expressive of the differ
ent abilities of the concerned ; by which circum
stance, the property of the prize is nioft agreea
bly divided !
PHILADELPHIA, 21 April.
This day were interred the remains of the illustrious and vener
able Be njami n Fr ankli n, L. L, D. with every mark of ten
der and refpeflful sorrow. which an affe&ionate family, devoted to
him—friends truly sensible of his worth, or an intelligent and
grateful city could (how.
The ships in the harbour, of all nations, hung their flairs half
mad high.
To the town of Boflon, the placeof his nativity, he has left a li
beral and well-judged token of his remembrance ; to the city of
Philadelphia, his second place of birth, he has leftthe fame. But
time alone can unfold to his country and his fellow-men, the nu
merous treasures of wisdom, which his patrotifm and philanthro
py have bequeathed them.
Years, virtue, honor, glory, fame, conclude
" life ej labors, for the public good'.'
" Crf/m sleeps the jlejh—jar diflant unconfin'd,
" /n bliss unbounded wakes tk' immortal mind.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW. YORK.
Ship Expedition, Roberts, London.
Brig Lively, Clark, Bristol.
Brig Laretta, Sifare, St. Domingo.
Brig Three Brothels, Ncw-Caflle (England).
Brig Minerva, Tiplet, Baltimore.
Brig Columbia, Baddock, Edenton, (N. C.)
Schooner Good Hope, Savage, St Thomas.
Sloop Catharine, Snell, Charleston.
Sloop Sally, Lawrence, Cape Francois.
Sloop Susan, Elliot, Montego Bay.
Sloop Polly, Rhodes, Edenton (N. C.)
Sloop Wilmington Packet, Brainfby, Wilmington,
Sloop Belfry, Brooks, Philadelphia.FOR. THE GAZETTE OF THE US'IT ED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
r T" , HE pitriots of America were little more weary of the dangers
1 and etlorts of a state of war, than of the confufions, dilgraces
and gloomy forebodings which succeeded it. That liberty which
cost such efforts, and was worth more than it cost, teemed ready
.to expire •; property was deemed insecure ; the union had no
thing hut opinion to support it ; a charm which was losing its
force by time, and the accumulated causes of internal hostility.
IVhile , New-York was taxing Conuefticut and New-Jeriey, aud
part of Maflachufetts, and MafTachufetts, was taxing a part of Con
vie£fcicut, and almost all New-Hampftitrc; while each accused the
other of delinquency during the war, and of injustice iince the
peace, all men of difceriiment saw with grief and terror the rapid
progress of things towards a state of civil war. 1 hank Heaven !
it is only a matter ot opinion; but that opinion is little ihort of
plenary evidence, that before this day the flames of civil war
would have been kindled. The high spirit ot Conne&icut could
ill brook the being tributary to New-Yoik. It is said that more
than one hundred thousand dollars were drawn yearly by this
Jattei state from its neighbours. Trade fuffered under rival regu
lations—mutual interconrfe was (hackled, and would soon have
been interdicted. Navigation and manufactures funk under the
-weight of foreign oppreflion ; all this time property was unfafe ;
-we bluftied for our country, while we trembled for its fafety.
When we adopted the Constitution, we justly relied upon the
■wisdom of its principles, and, perhaps flill more, upon the zeal of
its advocate* for an efficient and stable administration. What were
the defetts of the old form of government ? It was well enough
nn paper ; but in pra&ice it was a piece of mockery. Congress
had the fwxjrd, it h true ; but a f\vord that must be kept in the
icabbord till the rust had conlumed its edge. The States had each
a sword too, and what was better, a purse, and in that purse some
of the States kept their own and their neighbour's money : It was
a house divided against itfelf; it was a constitutional mob ; a chaos
xnade more confufed toy attempting to arrange it into order ; a per
petual conflict between constitution and administration ; it was
■worse than a state of nature in which each man is against his fel
low ; for here petty societies were ranged against one another; it
<wai order against order government against government; it was
a kind of feudal anarchy in which the social priuciple was per
verted to make the mifchiefof individual paflions more permanent
and deadly.
Those who believe in providence ought to thank heaven upon
their knees that we have escaped from a condition which afforded
no hope but in the extremity of the evil; that extremity produced
the constitution ; while it was in difcuflion, it was admitted that
•without the complete power of the purse, the government would
he a lhadow ; it would cheat the hopes of those who expe&ed
prote&ion from it.—For let it be remembered, a feeble govern
ment is a curse to a country ; for the paflions of men are con
ikantly struggling to escape the restraint of laws ; a government
too weaJt to rellraio these paflions becomes the instrument of
them.
Government is to foeiety what reason is to the foul; when the
authority of either is impaired, vice and ruin will ensue ; it is too
often said government is an evil : good government makes men
better than it finds them.—By impofiog an habitual restraint upon
the paflions, they lose much of their ferocity, and reason be
comes superior ; under good government man is a taught animal,
and gains more than all otheis by ditcipline.
Every feeble government on earth is a government of men, and
of bad men too, and not of hws ; the worst paflvon? are the tnoft
a&ive, and will gain the ascendency ; liberty if it can be called
such is then the moil infccure. Thofc who poflefs, are made wea
ry of it; its champions renounce its defence for its spoil. We
form societies for the fake of security ; a government too weak to
give it, is not worth preserving, and yet it must be preserved, if
at all, by the painful watching, and at the conllant peril of its ad
vocates.
We have gathered the ripe fruits of experience ; we have seen
the union prostrate; Congress with no more power and liule more
dignity than the trustees of a charity school ; we have supported
a government without having one ; allegiance and prote&ion said
to be reciprocal were rcverfed ; the government was prote&cd,
and paid homage to the State*.
The question on the ailumption involves all thefeconfederations;
if the State debts are notto be paid, it is a measure of violence and
wickcdncfs that Algiers would abhor. If they are to be paid at
acf. in the pound, and the States are to tax as they think lit to do
it, they mull occupy the principal sources of revenue ; these par
tial taxes will be dimcult to manage—they will be various in the
States—(yftem will oppose fyftem—confufion will ensue. The
people will pay much and the States get little. Besides the lofi
of money, it is bringing our government back to the confedera
tion. It is in practice what that was in theory.
Citizens qf America—you have not expe&ed another confede
ration—you have cheerfully adopted the conftvtution—you hav«
freely aided the government —you have prospered beyond exam
ple under it—yoyr itjduftiy, if not obftru&ed, will lead you to
"wealth.—Are you willing then by dividing the exercise of indi
rect taxation between Congress and the States, to endanger all
your hopes ? Revenue is power, and will not bear a partnership.
You will fee revived the deadly animosities which rival trade
jaws engendered in the States ; the arts will languish—the union
■will be relaxed—the graces of your heroes will be inoiftened with
the blood of ihejr brethren.—ls there in the world a government
■where the powers in question are exercised in partnerlhip ?—
If there is a bad government, and not worth what it costs.
Philadelphia, April 20,1700.
Died on Saturday night, in the 85th year of his age> the iflujlriovs
NjfAMJN FRANKLIN, of this city. His remains xvillbe interred
to morrow afternoon, atfour -o'clock, in Chrijl Church burial ground.
We are favored with the following (hort account of Do&or
Franklin's last illness, by his attending Physician.
THE /lane, with which he had been afflielcd for Jeveral years, had for
the lafl twelve months confined him chicflx to his bed; and during the ex
treme parnful paroxysms, he was obliged to take large doses of laudanum
to mitigate his tortures—flill, in the intervals of pain, he not only amu
sed ktmfeifwith rending and cOnvgrJibg cheerfully zcith his family and a
fewfriends, who visited him, but was often employed in doing bufiiefs of
ii public as well as <: private'nature, with varions persons, who waited on
him for that purpose ; and in every injlance df played, not only that rea
ding's and difpojition of doing good, which was the diflinguifhing cha
rall r eriliic oj h<s life, but theful/ejl and clearefl pojfeffion of his uncom
mon mental abilities ; and not frequently indulged him fdf in those jeux
d'efprits and entertaining anecdotes, which were the delight ej all who
heard him.
About sixteen days before his death, he mas seized with a fevcrifh in
disposition, without any particularfymtoms attending it till the third or
fourth day, when he complained of a pain in his left breafl, which increa
sed till it became extremely acute, attended with a cough ayd laborious
breathing. During this [late, when the severity oj his pains sometimes
drew forth a groan of complaint, he would obferve —that he was afraid
he did not bear them as he ought—acknowledged his gratefulfenfe of tht
many blrfjings he had received from that Supreme Being, who had raised
him,jrom small and low beginnings, to such high rank and confederation
among men—and nude no doubt his present ajfliftions were kindly
tended to wean him from a world, in which he was no longer ft to ail the
part affignedhim.
In (his frame of body and mind he continued till Jive days before his
deaih% when his pam and difficulty 6f breathing entirelyllet him, and his
fornilx were flattering thenifehes with the hopes of his recovery, when an
impojlhumaticn, which had formed iff!fin his lungs, fuddenlyburfl, and,
dfcharged a grea.; quantity of matter, which he continued to throw
up while he hadfujjicicrrt frength to do it, but, that failed the organs
of rtfpiratun became gradvatjy oppreJ[ed—a calm Uthargicjlatcfucctti
ed—and on the 17M, about 11 o'clock at night he quietly expired, clojtng
a long and ufefut life of 84 vears and 3 months.
It may net be amiss to add to the above account that Dr, Franklin, in
the year 1735, had a severe pleurisy, which determined in an abfcejs of
the left lobe of his lungs, and he was then almojl fujfocated with the quan*
tity and fuddennfs of the discharge. A second attack of ajimilar nature
happened some years after this, from which he soon recovered, and did
not appear tofujfer any inconvenience in his respiration from these dif-
tufa.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
Paris, February 12
SUPPRESSION OF MONACHISM !
At length the mighty exploit of civil prowess is
atchieved-—the national aliembly of France, al
ter a debate of two days, in which reason and e
loquence combated againlt bigotry and clamor,
have adopted the following memorable decree :
" The National Ailembiy decrees, as a consti
tutional article, that the law (hall not authorize
monadic vows from persons of either sex ; declares
in consequence, that all religious orders which
exadt such vows, are and shall for ever continue
fupprefl'ed in Franee, to the exclufionof any fiini
lar eftablifliments in future.
" All the religious of either sex may, on mak
ing a declaration to their municipality, quit their
cloister, and proper pensions fhallbe without de
lay provided for their support, as well as houses
of retreat for those who do not desire to avail
tliemfelvesof the liberty granted.
" The Aflembly excepts houses charged with
education or charity, until it (hall finally decide
concerning these objedis. The nuns may remain
in their own convents, the National Aflembly ex -
prefsly excepting them from the operation of
that decree which enjoins the union of several
houses into one.
M. L'Abbe Montefquiou was the author of the
decree we have reported above, which was carri
ed by a great majority.
7 hus, in the firft Catholic country of the
world, is the axe at length laid to the root of that
tree which in its baneful lhade nourished so ma
ny noifonie reptiles, while it withered the blos
soms of humanity—which has folong impoverish
ed the nutriment of industry by its growth, and
so widely darkened the views of intelle# by its
luxuriance. ■
LONDON, Febuary 10.
Population.—ln a late calculation it appears
that there are in—
A few days ago a young couple went to be mar
ried at A(hton-uiider-Line ; when the ceremony
was about to commence, the lady walked out of
the church ; the gentleman, with much appa
rent eagerness, followed her ; in the inoft tender
manner, intreated her to return and make him
happy, to which {he at length consented. When
again in the church, and at the altar, the intend
ed bridegroom made a moil obfeqnious bow,
wished her a good day, and left her.
A fellow at Windsor, who lately ate a cat, has
given another proof of the brutality ofhisdifpo
lition—an instance too ferocious and sanguinary
almost, to admit of public repcl'entation.
He was at a public lioufe at Old Windsor, one
day in tliecourfe of last week, and, without ap
parent cause, walked out of the house, and with a
bill-hook fevered his hand from bis arm. His
brutal courage was strongly marked in this tranf
a<ftion; for the inhuman monlter made q strokes
with the instrument before he could effedl his
purpose, and at last actually made a complete
amputation. He assigns no other reason for this
terrible felf attack, than his total disinclination
to work, and that this step will compel the over
leers of his parifli to provide for him during the
remainder of his life.
UNION.
The STARLING. A Song.
(From the Concord Gazctlt,)
A BEAUTEOUS Starling late I saw
On lovely Sylvia's hand ;
To check his flight, around his leg
She ty'd a silken band :
In vain he flutters to be gone ;
Confinement is his lot :
In vain he drives to break the band—
And can't untie the knot.
Cease ! cease ! (he cried—here you (hall feed ;
And in my bosom reft :
No bird that ever wing'd the air,
Was half so much carefs'd.
If from my hand you (hould escape,
You may per chancc be (hot :
Then cease to peck—'tis all in vain'—
You can't untie the knot.
The Bird contented grows, at length,
While Sylvia strokes his plumes ;
Ere&s his little crest—and loon
His former notes resumes.
From what he'd heard the fair one fay,
These words by rote he got;
And oft repeated every day,
You can't untie the knot.
One ev'ning youthful Damon fat,
With Sylvia by his fide k ;
Reward my love at last, said he,
To-morrow be my bride.
Her blurtiesin his tavor rose ;
Yet flie consented not ;
For ere she spake, the Starling cried—
You can't untie the knot,
-16-
England 8,100,000 people
Scotland 1,500,000
Ireland 3,040,000
Total
J. 0 -H N TRU MBUL L h
For pubhlhing by iublcnption,
TWO PRINT S
Fro'rti ORIGINAL PICTURES painted by himCelf':
RF.PR fSt NTINC
The DEATH of General WARREN,
At the Battle of Bunkcr's-HiU ; and
The DEATH of General MONTGOMERY,
I ri the Attack of Quebec.
IN the Battle of Bunker's Hill, the following Portraits are intro
duced, American. British.
Major General Warren, Central Sir tl'it!iam Howe
Putnam, Sir Heny Clinton, '
Lieut. Col. Jfohn Srul!,
Major Vitcdirn, and
Lieut. Pitcoirn.
In the Attack of Quebec, are seen,
General Montgomery, Major Macpherfen,
Colonel Thompson, Captain Ckeefman.
CONDITIONS of SUBSCRIPTION.
THE Prints will be engraved by two of the mofl eminent AMhtin
Europe. Thefize will be 30 inches by 20. The price to fubfcribtrs,
three guineasfor each print, one half to be paid at the time oJJMribin**
the remainder on the delivery oj the Prints, which will be asJoon as the
work (which is Already cohjuderably advanced) can pojfibly be completed.
Subscriptions are received in America, only by Mr. Trumbull. All Jul
fcription receipts will befgned by him, as well as by Mr. Poggx, of Ln.
don ; under whole diteflio>n the prints are engraving, and willhcM.
UJhed.
These Pfints are thefirfiof hjeries, ih which it is propofedto rtpri.
Jent the moji important events of the American revolution.
No period of the hiflory *f man is more interesting than that in hshick
we have lived. The memory of scenes in which were laid the fmia.
tionsvf that free government, which secures our national and individual
happiness, mufl remain eter dear to us, and topojletity; and if Hatml
pride be in any cafejuflifiabie, Americans have a right togiory in Huikg
given to the world an examp le, whoft influence is rapidly fpreadinffrc
I ova offreedom through other nations, and every where ameliorating the
condition of men.
To affijtin preferring the memory of the illuflrious events wkchhi «
mat ked this period of our country's glory, as well as of the men toko Hike
bren the mofl important aflors in them, is the object of this undertaking.
Hiflorians will do juflice to <xn ccra so important; but to be read, thelan.
guage ih which they write, mu/l be understood —the language of Painty
is univerfaf, and intelligible 111 all nations, and every age.
As fever al years of his timr, and a vety consider able expence,are necej\
fary to accomplish this undertaking, it would be an imprudent fatnfu it
the mere hope of reputation, to go more deeply into it, without a froiak:.
lUy of ultimate fuccejs. That he may judge of the degree of this trobn
bility, Mr. Trumbull, by ths: advice of his friends, proposes this fulfcrip.
tion, andflatters himfelf wi th a hope of meeting that patronage fm his
countrymen, which willjujhfy his pursuing the objefl icith ardor y and
without which it is imboflit le that so etpenjivea work Jhould be continued.
The fubjefls probofed tt> be reprrfentedy in addition to the two foul
ing, of Bunker's-Hilland Quebec, are
* The DECLARATION
4 BATTLE .at TRENTON,
* BATTLE of PRINCETON, \
SURRENDER of General BURGOYNE,
TREATY with FRANCE,
BATTLE Df EUTAW SPRINGS,
* SURRENDER <?/YORK-TOWN,
TREATY of PEACE,
EVACUATION of NEW-YORK,
RESIGN ATION of General WASHINGTON,
The ARfCH at TRENTONi
IN AUG U RATION of the PRESIDENT of the UNITED
STATES.
Each pittur c will contain Portraits of the principal charatters, mht
were present at the scene represented. Those marked with Stars, are ccn
fderably advanci d—and the Prints from the whole will be executed of tkt
fame size, and by the mofl cmirunt engravers.
New-York, April 2, iyqo.
12,640,000
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby g;ven to all the creditors of Philip
Denmaw, now confined in the common gaol of Newark,
in the county of EfTex, That the Hoiiorable Court of Common
Pleas, in and for said county, have appointed Tuesday the 25th
day of May next, for the creditors of said Philip Denman, tom«t
at the Court hou.fe in Newark, at nine o'clock of the day aforefaid,
and (hew cause to the judge of the said Court if any they haw,
why an afTignment of the said insolvent debtors estate (houldnct
be made, and he discharged according to the ast of the Legifl»*
ture of Ncw-Jerfev in such cafe made and provided.
PHILIP DENMAN.
Niwark, April 14, 1790.
♦ To be SOLD,
For CERTIFICATES, Or exchanged for LAND,
TWENTY -Two acres of ground in the City of New-York,
fronting Great George-Street, Bowry-Lane, and Greenwich-
Lane. On the premises is a brick dwelling house containing M
rooms; a smaller brick house with four rooms; a house with a
brick front with two rooms : In each house is a Kitchen, and un
der the whole four cellars; a never failing spring is near oneot
the kitchens; a frame (table and a coach-house with llables.
From the dwelling house both the North and the East rivers are
plain to the view. Additional improvements have been made
this Spring, the ground has been laid out for pleasure as well rs
for utility; it is provided with variety of orchard and other fruit;
part of the land has also been sown with timothy and clover.
To be fold for certificates of the national debt, which will be re
ceived at the nominal value, Dollars at Bs. Or for good upland,
even il covered with wood, provided it is situated on the follow
ing rivers,or on creeks as far as navigable,communicating with the
fame, viz. At the Potowmac abova Alexandria/at Tames River a
bove Richmond, in South-Carolina, about one hundred milestrom
the sea (hore, on Santee Edifto or Ponpon river, or on Savannah
river. If not fold at pi ivate sale before the xsth of May, it
then on the above terms be disposed of by Public Vendue at the
merchants Coffce-Houfe.—Fof further particulars enquire of Mr.
Poellmtz on the prtmifes. New-York April 10, x 79°*
ASH, and a geirerous price given for Conti*
nental, New-Hampshire, Mafiachufetts, an,d Rhode-IflM 1
securities, of every denomination, by
EBENEZER THAYER, jun. No. 59, Water-Strut
New-York, April 17, 1790. ,
William Taylor,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, Bur ling-Slip,
Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GOODS*
Among which are the following Articles:
BOOK Muslins 8-4 6-4 5-4 || HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. j| Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefs,of various kinds,|| Calfas,
Chintzes, j| Seersuckers,.
|| Boglapores.
A Variety of liandfome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the Pie ce
PROPOSALS,
Package, low for cacti.