I
[No. 109. —Vol. ll.j
DR. FRANKLIN.
[Wc are gratified in having it in our power to piefent our readers
with a few Sketches on the life ol Dr.
THE TABLET.- No. CIX.
" When an eminent man dies, it is worth while to enquire into
the causes which conduftcd him to eminence."
THERE is ill the character of every diftin
guilhed perfou, fomethiug to admire, and
fomethiug to imitate. The incidents, that have
marked the life of a great man, always excite cu
riosity, and often afford improvemei . II there
are talents, wo can never hope to equal ; if there
is a leries of good fortune, we can never expecft
to enjoy, we itill need not lose the labor of our
biographical enquiries. We may probably be
come acquainted with habits, which it may be
prudent to adopt, aud discover virtues which we
cannot fail to applaud. It will be easy for the
reader to make a full application of these remarks
in his contemplations upon the late celebrated
Dr. Franklin. By his death one of the belt
lights of theworld may be said to be extinguilh
ed. I shall not attempt any historical details of
the life of this illuftriotis patriot and philosopher,
as 1 .have nothing further in view than to make
a few comments upon the raoft Itriking traits of
his character.
Original genius was peculiarly his attribute.
The native faculties of his mind qualified him to
•oenetrate into every science ; and his unremit
ted diligence left 110 field of knowledge unex
plored. There were 110 limits to his curiosity.
His enquiries were spread over the whole face of
nature. But the study of man seemed to be his
highest delight ; and if his genius had any fpe
cinl bias, it lay in discovering those things that
made ineu wiier and happier. As truth was the
sole objeift ofhis refearchss, he was of course 110
fetftary ; and as real on was his guide, he embra
ced 110 fvftein which that did not authorise. In
Ihort, he laid the whole vol#me of nature open
before him, and diligently and faithfully perused
Nor -were his political attainments lefs'confpi
cuous than his philofoplmat. The amicus trivi
ally ranked good fortune among those circum
stances of life which indicate merit. In this view
Dr. Franklin is almciil unrivalled, having seldom
undertaken more than he accompliflied. The
■world w« too well acquainted with the events of
his political career to require, at this time, a par
ticular enumeration of them. It may be preln*
ined the historians of die American revolution will
cxhibit.them in proper colors.
If Dr. Fra::lilin did not af'pire after* the splen
dor of eloquence, it was only becaule the demon
strative plainness of his manner was superior to
it. Tho he neither loved political debate, ltor
exaelled in it, he itiil preserved much influence
in public atlemblies, and dil'covered an aptitude in
his remarks, on all occasions. He was not fond
of taking a leading part in such invettigations as
could never terminate i»i any degree of certainty.
To come forward in quellions which in their na
ture are indefinite, and in their ifUie problemati
cal, does not comport with the caution of a man,
who has taught hifnfelf to look for demonftrntion.
He reserved hisabfervations for thole cases which
science could enlighten, nr.d com men i'enfe ap
prove. Thefiuipliciry of hisflile was well adapt
ed to tha ckamefs of h:s undcrUanding. His
conceptions were so bright and perfect, that he
did not choose to invol\e thein in a cloud of ex
prefiions. If he tiled metaphors it was to illustrate,
and not to embelliih the truth. A man, pofleffing
■such a lively imagery of ideas, flionld never affecft
the arts cfa vain rhetorician, vvivofe excellence
consists only in a beautiful arrangement of words.
But whatever claims to eminence Dr. Franklin
may have, as a politician,oi< a scholar, there is no
point of light in which his character fhir.es with
more lultre. than wheli we \iew him as a man or
a citizen. He wa3 emineiitly great in common
things. Peibaps r.o man ever exilted, whose life
can with mote juflire be denominated ufeful.—
Nothing ever palled through his hands without
receiving-improvement; and 110 per foil ever went
into his company without gaining wiidom. His
fagadkr nvesfo ikarpj and his science so various,
that whatever might be the profellion or occupa
tion of those with whom he conversed, he could
meet every one upon their own ground. He could
enliven every converfadon with an anccdotc, and
conclude ic wit ha moral.
The whole tcjior of his life was a perpetual lec
ture agaiirft (he idle, the exnavagauf, and the
' proctl. It wns his principal aim to inspire man
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FMXO? No. 9, MAI DEN-LANF, NEW-YORK.
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28, 1790
kind with a love of iiuluftry, temperance and.fru
gality ; and to inculcate such duties as promote
the important interests of humanity. He never
wafted a mqment of time, 01" lavished a farthing
of money in folly and diHipation. Such expen-
Ices as the dignity of his fiat ion required he >ea
dily sustained, limiting them by the ftriiteft rules
los propriety. Many public institutions expei ien
ced bis well-tirued libera'iry, alidjjl< manifefted
a sensibility of heart by jjc'ts of.privatc
charity.
By a judicious division of time Dr. Franklin ac
quired theart of doing every thing to advantage;
and his amufenients were of such a nature as could
never militate with the main objeifts of his pur
suit. In whatever lituation he was placed by
ichance or design, he extracted lomething ufeful
lor himfelf or othei s. His lile was remarkably
full of incident. Every circuintlance of it turiied
to some valuable account, ihe maxims, which
his discerning mind has formed, apply to innu
imerab'le cases and characters. Thoj'e who move
in theloweft, equally wi'.hthofe who move in llie
most elevared rank in society, maybe guided by
his inftruftions. In the private deportment of
his lite, he, in many refpec'ls, has furnifhed a most
excellent model. His manners were easy and ac
commodating, and his address winning and rel
pecftftil. All who knew him, speak ofhiui as a
moll agreeable man ; and all who have heard of
him, applaud him as a very ufeful 011 c. A man
lo wife, and so amiable could not but have many
admirers, andiuany friends.
Of'.h: King of Frenchmen, to tbi National AjfiiMtih)
on the 4th of Fti. I 790.
A Translation from art Englilh paper,which has notbeforcappear
cd in the American papers.]
li CtNTI.F.M£N,
" r T" I HE weight of the present circumstance* of the kingdom
JL dravys me to you. The gradual relaxation of all the ties of
order and fubordtnaii >n, the fufponfion or the ina&ivity ot justice,
ftic*«Wc«mreiiHi which arile frdpi pAticular deprivation, the oppo
fitimi«,thr unhappy hatreds which are the Inevitable consequence
of long diflenfinns. the critical situation of the finances, and the
uncertainty of the public funds ; all thef: circumftanccs united,
keep upa general agitation and anxiety in the minds of even the
real friends to the prosperity of the kingdom.
" A great and glorious end it is, which you have in view ; but
it mud be attained without new copvulfions. It was, I must pro
fefs, in a manner more mild and tranquil that 1 had hoped to con
duct you, and uniting, for the public happiness, the knowledge
and collected will of the Reprefematives of the nation ; but my
happiness and my glory are not the less intimately dependant on
thjc fucc«|< ojt your labors.
" TheCe labors I have hitherto guarded,V»y a continual vigilance,
from thf unhappy influence of those d'flrclstul circumllances, in
the midst of which you have been placed. The horrois of famine
which threatened us last year have been averted. The disorder
which the ftaUe of the finances, the discredit, the exceflive fcacce
nefc of (pecie, and the gradual decay of the revenue, ought natur
ally to produce ; this disorder, or least its excess, has hitherto
been avoided. I have, notwithflanding the feeblenefs of the means
of authority, maintained the kingdom, not indeed in that perte6t
calm 1 could have wiftied, but in a state of fiiificient tranquility to
receive the bit flings of a wife and well regulated liberty ; in fine*
notwithstanding our interior situation, so well known, nolwith
ftanding the storms which agitate other nations. I have preserved
peace abroad, and have kept up with all the powers of Europe,
such terms of refpeft and si iendlhip, as ought to reader this peace
durable,
" After 'laving thus preserved you thofc- adveifc circum
tances, which might so cafily have thwarted your labors. I now I
udgc the moment is arrived, iu which it imports the interest of the
State, that I should a (foci ate myfelf in a (till more manifeft and
exprels manner to the execution of all that you have concerted
for the advantage of Franco. 1 cann<st fcize a better occasion ot
doing so than that iu which you present for my acceptation the
decrees designed loeftablilh throughout the kingdom anew or
ganization which is to have so important an influence on the pros
perity o£ the Empire.
I will second, I will aflift, by all the means in my power the
success of this vart organization, on which depends, in my opin
ion, the fa ft ty of Fiance ; and J thick it necessary to declarc to
vou, thaL I too clearly fee the dangers of all kinds that surround
u.s, not to feel, that in the present difpohtions of men's minds, and
in the present state of public aflairs, it is neceirary that the
new order of thing* should be established with calmness apd trail
quality, or that the kingdom mult be exposed to all the calamine*
of anarchy. , ,
" Let .1 be thoroughly underflood then, that the Monarch and
tSe Reprcfentatives ol the nation are united in the fame mtereft,
in the fame will, to the end that this opinion, this firm belief
may spread throughout the provinces a Ipmt ol peace and goo
will, and that ell honcft and well meaning eitizens may take a
zealous pjit in the ditfcrtnt subdivisions of the general adniinit
t'ation, and efficacioufly concur in the re-eftablilhroent of the Ol
der and prosperity of the kingdom.
" We ought not to dillemble, that much is to be done before
we can arrive at the desired end.—An union of will, a connetlion
of design are absolutely necessary to luccefs. Continue tUea your
labors, with minds unwarped by any other motives or palltons
than for the public good ; let your si'& attentipn be fixed on the
the public liberty ; but let it be also your care to foften, 'ocalm
all dillruft, all despondency ; put «n end as fa«n as poflible to
thole tears which banilh so great a number of her citizen. lrom
Fiance, an effect which at present exhibits a fad contraA with the
laws of liberty and security you wifti to eftablifli. Profpent)
can only return with the general content,
" A day will come—l love to dwell on the idea—when all
Frenchmen will indiftinaively acknowledje the advantage of the
433
SPEECH,
'$$$0
PRICE THRiE DOLLARS PK. ANN
entire fupprelfion of the differences of order and rank.; when
every one will fee without pain, that to be tailed to the
State in any manner, it will be lurficient to render himfeit re
markable tor his talents and his virtues.
" Without doubt they who have abandoned their pecuniary
privileges, they who will no longer, as heretofore, form a ■diifonCi
order in the State, feel themfelvts iubje£led to Ucrifires, the
whole importance of which I well know ; but I am alfopei fuad< d,
that they will have the generosity of spirit to feck an indemnifi
cation in all those advantages which the eftablilhment of Nation?!
AfTemblies prefent,s to our view.
" I will defend. I wild maintain the constitutional liberty ;
I will do more and in concert wr!i my Queen, who partakes of
my fcotimcnts, I will prepare betimes the mind of my son lor
the new order of things which circumstances have brought to pass.
I will habituate him from hi* infancy, to be happy in the
ness of France, and to itnderfUqd, in spite of the language of flat
terers, that a wife conflituiiqn will preserve him from the dangers
of inexperience, and that a just libei tv will give a new value to
the fentimeotsof love aud attachment which this nation has for
lo many ages teftifidd 10 its Kings.
" I cannot doubt, but that in finishingty>ur work, von will
give strength to the executive power, without which no durable
order within, nor consideration abroad, can be cftablithed. No
reasonable cause of diflruft remains to withhold you : it is there
fore your duty, as citizens and faithful Reprelentativrs of the na
tion, to secure to the State that .liability which can only be de
rived from an and tutelary authority.—You lure will call
to mind, that without luch an authority all the partis of vour fy(-
tem of would remain without corrrfpondence, with
out the neceflary key-stone ; you will not lose fight of this great
truth, that disorder in ad mini flratioo, by producing a coufufion
of powers, degenerate* into the most dangerous and alarming of
all tyrannifs.
" Not for myfelf then, Gentlemen, but for the happiness of
our country, for its prolperuy, for its power, I exhort you to cait
oft all those impredions of the'momeiu that may prevent you from
(ojifidering, in One great whole, the exigencies of such a king
dom as France is, as well in its vail extent and ioityicnfe popula
tion, as in its inevitable relations with other States.
" By what fatality is it, that at the mum em of a returning
calm, new troubles new disturbances have arilen in the provin
ces ? By what fatality is it, that my people give themselves up to
new cxcefTcs ? Ah ! if they knew to what degree I am made mi
serable, when I hear the news ot an unjust attack on the fortunes,
or of an ast of violence to the persons of my fubje£ts, they wou.d
perhaps (pare me this bitter grief.
" t cannot speak to you of the great intercfts of the State, with
out preilingyou to applv yourselves inftantlv, and in a definitive
manner, to the re-establishing order in the finances, on which de
pends the tranquility of an innumerable multitude ot citizens,
who are united by the ftrifteft ties to the fortune of the State. It
is time to appease all these anxieties ; it is time to confer on this
kingdom that force and credit which is its due.
May this dav, in your monarch comes to unite himfelt
to you in the moll unreserved manner, be a memorable epoch* in
the history of this fcmpire. It will be so, if my ardent vows, if
my exhortations can be the signal of peace and reconcile
ments among you. May those who yet hold back and withdraw
themfelveß from a spirit of concord which isanow becdme lo ne
cessary, make a facrifice to me of all those recolktUons which ai
flift and torment them ; I will repay tlicm by my acknowledg
ments aVid my affc&ion.—Let us all prolYfs, reckoning from th S
dav, let us all (and I will give the example) pnofefs but one opin
ion, but one interest, but one will, attachment to the new con-
Ui tut ion and an ardent deiirc of the peace, the happiilefs a«d the
profperityof France."
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TUESDAY, MARCH 50.
The proportion for ajfuming the Jldte debts under confid;ration.
MR. Stone said he bad mentioned on a former occafton that
New-York and Pennsylvania were become accountable a$
States for large funis, the former on account of confifcated cftates ;
the latter to the Penn family ; the gentleman from Phi
ladelphia had said that that State has no idea of burdening tbe
union with that debt. He did not suppose th«t those States had it
in contemplation to transfer them to the United States ; but if Uie
creditors prefer the funds of the United States to those of the in
dividual governments, they can place their demands on a conti
nental eftablilhment, nor can the State prevent it. It had been said,
that debts of this description were notconGdered by the Secretary
in his cftimate of the amount of the State debts ; this affords ad
ditional (trengih to the argument again ft alTuming, which arises
from the utTcertainty of the amount which wc may have to provide
funds for ; it is evident in this way the State debts may be en
creafedtoan enormous amount.
Mr. Lawr ance observed that it was doubted whether the
accounts between the several States would ever be adjusted, and
this formed a principal obje&ion to the aflumption of the Suite
debts. He requeftcd gentlemen, who had tbefc doubts, to con
sider what had been done by the late and present government to
effe6t this business ; that a board of commiflionei s, «vith very cx
tenfive powers, had beenere&ed ; those comnaiflioners had been
recognised by the prefcht government; provision had been maAe
for their pay, and the pay of their clerks, and an addition to the
pay of the latter had been agreed on by the hottfe of feprefenta
tives. The amendment to the present proportions proposed by a
gentleman from Virginia, and adopted by the committee, premi
led that effe&ual provision (hould be made for liquidating and fet
tling these accounts : fothat if those already adopted, and which
were now in were not fufficienr, adequate and proper
mealures for the purpose -would, it was highly probable, be a
greed on. Really believing that these accounts would finally be
adjulted, he could not discern that any injufticc could be done
by theaffumption, because the sum a (Turned was to be charged to
the State, and would be set off agwnft claims of the State for the
expenditures during the war, eithet for general or particular de
fence.
He further observed, that he considered the evidences of claims
in poHellion of individuals were founded on fucb expenditures of
monies and supplies furrvfhed, as the States would eventually be
credited for ; and although there was an inequality in these debts
at present, yet a final liquidation would do justice to all. In the
intermediate time, he supposed it would be a measure founded in
justice and found policy to aftume these demands, which were li
quidated by the States, and which were polTefied by individuals,
because there was no solid diftinttion between them and those
wludh they possessed as claims against the union ; as the former
»■were for the fame fervlees, and ftipplifis, and were to have been
paid out of a common fund fuppiied by the refpe&ive States t in
certain proportions, but which has not been done ; and on ac
count of the deficiency and inability of this fund, were, at the re
commendations of the late Congress, assumed by the several States
to their refpeflive citizens.
By the change of government, the funds appropriated to dif
eharge the.e demands were now occupied or might be possessed
by Congress ; and it was proper, when the revenues were taken,
the debts (hould also be taken. Arr effe&ual proviAon could be
made for all the debt*-, with more ease and convenience, and with
3efs expence to the citizens of the union, by systems proceeding
from the general government, than if they were made by the for
mer for one class of creditors, and by the State government for
another. If the assumption {hould not be made, probably dif
ferent provisions would be made by the States for their debts,
"which would depend either on their abilities or policy, and a di
versity of interest be occasioned, which, in its operation, might
be prejudicial to the general happiness; and the only effe&ual and
proper mode of obviating this, was to assume the State debts,
"whereby the different creditors would have their demands pro
vided for and discharged by the fame body, and those contend
ing interests, which would otherwise take place, prevented.
He remarked that a question had been asked, whether it Was
caher to provide for a large debt than a small one ? The debt ol
the union was fufficiently large, and if we added the State debts
the difficulty would be increased.
Mr. Lawrance observed that these debts already existed, though
an different shapes, yet substantially the fame : transferring the
demand from the State to the anion did not change the entire sum
owed by the union and the States, and provision ought to be made
for the whole : that supposing it would be made, the union, hav
ing the revenues of the particular States unincumbered and unoc
cupied, could make provision moie conveniently and more fatis
iattorily than can be done if the assumption (hould not take place,
and part of these revenues, probably the mod produ£live part,
prc-occupied and retained by several of the important States ; the
mode of providing for the debrs would be more agreeable to mi*
3iy States in the union, as it could be done by imports and exci
lcs, and we should rid many of the States from the oppreflive
®f. taxes ; the former would do general justice, as
each individual in the union would pay according to his confump-
Particular instances have been mentioned to (hew that injuf
be done to some States, if thfe proportion was adopt
ed ; but these contemplated that no fettlemcnt would take place.
\ " r ovuion could be made to obviate difficulties in these cases ; ami,
m determining on a general proposition, it was lufficient thrat the
principle of it was ju(t, because when it was assented to, and to
be carried into effeft,the details and provisions could be suggested,
considered and made as fliould appear proper.
Mr. Lawrance concluded that the proposition was just and pro
per, and would be productive of national advantage; and as it
had, so it again should receive his afleot.
The following objervations were made by Mr. Sherman, the 12 th injl.
' A CC ou^c f( l divided on so important a fub
jeft, It gives mc great concern on account of the threatning as.
pert it has on the peace and welfare of the government.
The support of public credit by a provision for doing justice to
*k " '. ors t ' le United States, was one great objefl that led to
the eftabliffiment ot the prefenl government, and ffiould it fail of
doing justice to so great a proportionof them as are involved in this
provision. it would lose the confidence of many of its bell friends,
and disappoint the expe&ations of the people in geneeal.
I consider the debts incurred by the several states in support of
the war, and for the common defence and general welfare, as the
oebts of the United States, and that those creditors have as just
and meritorious a claim on theunion for payment as any creditors
whatever. A great part of them were aflTumed by the states in be
half of the United States, in consequence of reqnifitions of Con
gref-. ,
I (hall not now go into a particular discussion of the proposition
before the committee, (every thing having been already said that
may relief! light on the fubjefl) but (hall only Hate the reasons on
"which I (hall give my vote in the affirmative.
The measure appears to me both just and politick. Just, with
refpeft to the creditors, whose debts are due for services and sup.
plies rendered in support of the common caufeofthe union, which
therefore ought to be paid out of the fame common funds, as the
"ther creditors of the United States, and although some of the
"ates would be able to provide for their creditors as well as the
United States, yet that is not the cafe as to those whose exertions,
luffentigs and burthens have been much greater, than the others,
and it would not give fatisfaftion to aTTume the debts of some
states, and not of others.
The measure will be jujl with refpeft to the several States, be
caufeeach will bear only its just proportion of the present bin.
then, and their past exertions and expenditures, will be equitably
adjusted in the final settlement of their accounts, for which effec
tual provision is to be made by the fame a£l that provides for the
assumption of the debts. '
The policy of the measure confills in its tendency to promote
iuftice and harmony, and confidence in the government, in al
leviating the burthens of a number of the States, who from
their situation and circumstances during the war, were necefiitated
to make grcaten exertions, and were fubjefted to greater fuf
ferings ana expenditures than the other States, and by put
ting all the funds neccflary for paying the debts under one dj
rtition, to facilitate the collc&ion and render thein more produc
tive and less embarrafling to commerce. The principal resource
for pay (the impost) is in pofTellion of the general government.
But if the date debts are jiot assumed, the states which have
heretofore borne the greatest burthens,-will be left still to fuflain
ihofe unequal and grievous burthent, or their creditors will be
left without any provision for fatisfying their claims either of
which would be unreasonable, and occasion great uneasiness
-which will tend to embarrass and obfti u£ithe measures of govern
ment.
It has been (aid, let those States wait until their accounts with
the United States (hall be fettled, and then receive feenritv for the
balances that mav be due to them ; But why Ibould those States
Vie fubjefted to greater burthens at prefenl, than the other States ?
As it is not known which are Debtor or Creditor States, why not
bear the burthen equally until that can be afcertamed ? If there
is to be no settlement, I think it is a conclusive argument that the
-whole public debt Ihould be alTiimed bv the United States. It
ougfit to be presumed that the States have made exertions accord,
ing to their abilities, and in due proportion until the contrary ap
pears, and that can no otherwise appear, but by a settlement of the
accounts ; and until that is done I can fee no good reason why any
State (hould bear more than its ju(t proportion of the exiftingdebts
whether contracted by the United Slates, or by the individual States'
it incurred for the common defence, or general welfare of the
Union. It is said there is no rule established toafcertain tjie quo
tas of the several States ; but I think the rule is fixed by the refo-
Jutions of the late Congrcfs,of the 22d of November 1777, and the
third of June 1784, and the provision in the new Conllitution for
apportioning dire£t taxes.
PROGRESS OF MANUFACTURES.
Philadelphia,
THE ufeful arts are constantly encreafing a
mongit us. A single Manufacfturer in the
Northern Liberties makes annually 400 dozen
pair worsted, cotton and thread (lockings ; the
last superior in appearance andgoodnefs to those
that are imported from England at a much higii
er price. From the laboratory of Mefl'rs Marihal,
we are informed, this fuminer 60000 lb. of crude
fait armoniack will be exported to England and
Holland, the very countries from which we have
hitherto imported this article. Glauber salts of
an excellent quality is made cheaper than it can
be imported.
ON DII'ISE PROVIDENCE.
A S some fond mother, views her infant race
i 1 With tenderness o'er flowing while (he fees ;
She Miles one, one c lafps in her embrace ;
Her feet fupportingone, and one her knees;
Then, as the winning gefture-fpeakihg face,
Or plantive cry explain their different pleas,
A look, a word, (He deals with various grace,
And finiles, or trowns, as love alone decrees.
O'er frail mankind, so Providence divine
Still watches ; hears, sustains, and succours all,
With equal eye, beholding each that lives.
If Heaven denies, oh ! let /lot men repine!
Heav'n but denies to quicken duty's call,
Or feigning to deny, more largely gives.
LONDON, February 1
ML ALLY, in his second letter to his coiiftitu
• ent», quotes the following remarks of a
ihodern French author.
" A nation, after having groaned un
der the chains of for many centuries,
whenever it is bold enough to attempt to break
them, not withstanding all the absurd institutions
that (lill inuft surround it, resembles a sick man,
whole strength is extreamly weakened by long
fufFerings, and whose vital spirits have been con
sumed by inceflant fevers ; if he makes use of too
violent or too many remedies at once, or def
pelately takes it into his head to force nature,
he dies the victim of his imprudence."
An extraordinary miniature has been made of
the King by Bowyer : inftpadof a crystal, there
is a flat diamond over it, half an inch square !
Adam Smith's pliilofophical pen has been a long
time silent, though not unemployed. This learn
ed and fagncious politician is at length comii!g
forward again with a work which he has been
some years preparing for the press. It is chiefly
a review of the political do«ftrines ofthe celebrat
ed.Montesquieu, which tlie profound Caledonian
has examined with such perspicuity, and refuted
with fucli strength of argument, thatitisfaid the
renowned fabric of L'Efprit des Loix is likely to
be fliattered into ruins,orfto moulder in oblivion
after so formidable an aftault. '
M. La Rive, the aiftor, who has performed the
character of Bayard for many years with diftin
gnHhed success, was presented by a defendantot
Rayard with a golden chain, which that famous
general used to wear ahout his neck. M. La Rive
thought that a chain which belonged to man who
acquired the title of Chevalier fans p lt ,r et fans
r.-prvche, would be a proper present for M. de la
Favetre, delivered it to him with the following
address. 6
1) un ordre chcri des guerriers,
Cette antique et simple parure
Dans les combats ornoit l'arnmrc
Dn plus brave des Chevaliers.
Qui mieuxque vous, anroit des droits fur eile >
Comme Bayard, " fans reprocheetfanspeur,"
Sage, valiant, a vos devoirs fidele
Chaque jour vous obtient une gloire nouvelle
it maigre les complots de l'envie en fureur
Vous fortez des dangers toujours calme et vain
queur.
Letters j.ift received from Lisbon mention,that
a large Alger,ne corsair of ,8 guns, and foil of
rn 1 ' 7, aS n. h ? venn S Kock, the latter
end of 1 ast month ; upon notice of which, a flout
frigate and sloop of war were dispatched in quest
of the rover, and the next day ca.neup with her ■
when, after a most obstinate and bloody contest
of 4 hours and 40 minutes, they were obliged to
lei off. Ihe frigate received a number of (hot
between w.nd ami water, and was muchdamag
edl ~, her upper works ; the sloop was alio in a
Mattered condition, having h er rudder shot away
and most of her fails torn to pieces : it is said the
pirate had three parts of her crew killed or
wounded : among the latter was their, fierce and
danng leader Hkewife he, fails and rig J™
were so terribly mauled, and the (hip To nfuch
crippled, that it is thought impoflible (he ever
could reach Algiers. The robbers fought all the
nZrl'T b,OOC,yfla g' n »d swore inceflkntly
whil languages, they never would strike'
while man or boy was left alive. The Portu'
gnefe had near 100 killed, and a srrear rm™l
VV :; n, ' dt 7 l ; most ° f the >" mortally as the balls
which the p,rates fired from their small ™
were all chewed ; notwithllanding, tile Portu
guefe fought with uncommon bravery throughout"
.he „ d rrf jh.U.
TI F EBRD ARY 12.
•It,of cin-utei,,,. r ])e=b in s;
chcate the extent of commerce, ve ,-aXJf
theincreafe of the latter by coVpa '•l £ f °
wind, ;he : h,« „«£
434
coin. By George I, 8,72>,921].fieri, were coined.
In the longreign ofGeorge 11, 11,966,576!. and in
the firft 24 years of his present majelty's rei<m
the fuinscoined amounted to 33,082,2741. (terlinr,
From Madrid we learn, that a Mr. Fitzgerald
a member of the Parliament of Paris, being at
dinner at the Duke de Crillon's house there, the
fubjeift of France became the topic of converfati
-011. Mr. Fitzgerald exprefled himfelf very warm
ly in favour of the revolution, and imprudently
fuffered some words to escape him, reflecting on
the condud: of Count d'Artois.
The Duke de Crillon could not permit fnch re
flections to pass unnoticed, accordingly desired
Mr. Fitzgerald to withdraw. Fearing that this
mifimderftanding might create much noise with
out doors, the Duke went immediately to the
Prime- Minister's house, where he obtained an or
der for the apprehension of Mr. Fitzgerald, who
was fliortly after seized at chehouleof the Count
Cabarras, and conduced to prison. It is intend
ed that he fliall be escorted out of the kingdom
immediately.
On the thirteenth instant, the Emperor, attend
ed by all t' e Nobility of the Court, publicly re
ceived the Sacrament ; and in consequence ofhis
Majesty's weak state, public prayers have been
ordered to be made in all the churches ; and the
Opera and Playhouses are Ihut.
On the 20th of February, at fix in the morning,
/lis Imperial Majesty Jol'eph 2d, Emperor of Ger
many departed tliis lite. Fie died with the grea
test firmnefs and coinpofure, perfectly retaining
his senses to the lall moment. All good men will
ever reverence the memory of this Prince,whofe
various good qualities and ardent defile for the
happinel's of his fubjeits,entitle him to the eftecm
of mankind. Previous to his death he made the
neceflary arrangements with regard to his success
or, whole arri\al at Vienna was hourly expected
at the time of the Emperor's death. Excepting
this intelligence, the present inltant is rather bar
ren ot great events. The cabinets however are
very buly, the hour is pregnant with futurity,
and the ulual events of ages.arc ready to built
upon 11s in a moment.
Particulars of the Death of JOSEPH lid.
No sooner had his chief physician informed
hi'" that his diflblution was near, than liegener
oufly rewarded him for his attention, and fnnk
nefs in telling him his real opinion.—On thefe
venteenth he was informed that the arch dutchefs
Elizabeth, whom he tenderly loved, was brought
to bed. He seemed pleased at the news, but the
information of her death upon th® day following
affe<sled his spirits in a dangerous maimer, altho'
conveyed to him with the greatest caution. Alto
nWhed at the intelligence, he leaned his head up
on his hands, and cried our—My Cod ! and ill
yet live thy will be done !—He then remained for
about ten minutes in a profound meditation.—
.jeing, soon after told that his death was very
near, lie alked for Prince JKaunitz and the two
generals Laudohn and Lafcey. Stretchingouthis
, a tender finile upon his countenance,
n a _ to tllein —f r 'e»ds> it is all over with int.
We n/Hjl tiowfeparate jor ever. To your care 1 recom
mend my fuljells, my armies and my brother Leopold.
e then ordered his will to be brought, in which
he made a few alterations and additions, and
c ' e " P utt 'ngit, with other papers, into the hands
of Prince Kaunitz, could
'■n tv/th less regret if he had been only fortunate e
nough to have had more confidence in his (the Prin
ce s) judgment.—lt was thoughtjhe hereby alluded
to something that had pafibd between them in the
beginmg of the Brabant troubles, when the Em
peror excused him (elf to the Prince for not having
made him acquainted with all his orders and
plans, relative to a certain undertaking in that
part of his dominions ; apologizing for his neg
ei y o serving that he feared the Prince was
too old to be troubled with so many minute parti
-1 ai j S * old, answered the Princt
but I would have your Majesty to know, that 1
.\° 11 ' S cr, ough to fee you without a crown, if
? • ! 111 utnre pursue such measures as you have
l i(v'r r ' OC Emperor having taken his
1 j CWc . o^. about him, very calmly gave
; r , ,°" s 1 e ' :ltlve to his funeral, and particular-
I•"' i £-!' e 7 to be fi' ven to his servants. A
' T.r , • ehe ex P' re d, he caused hiinfeif
iiiit nn F 1 I" h ' S his boots and spurs
P o.i, and other military array. His lass ftrug
fhc!,h" t i7 r rf. bout * i ua " erofa "
sentencef entence against the unfortunate Favras,
lioht " Ce ? confll ,lie^' he was executed by torch
n.nrnl, 01 mftant, at two o'clock in the
the n-„1 ma kjngthe amende honorable &
r s f" *the Cnthedra l of the Notre Dame, he
Gi /ve 1 f7- execllt ioner to the Place de
brimfW ru , I,T a ~ i ncn frock ' covered with
r• a hel 011 his breast, inferibed, " Con
hand and I'■ i j' ; , a flambeau in his
to his if IS 5 a,UI ect naked Agreeable
his k L -' e " there confefled his crimes, on
his rv'" 'f" Pegging pardon of God 'and
nary height' __a S a B allows of extraordi
attended the " Uniber ol f P e^a tors
March 3
■;\'ti
l!i
»n
Extratlsjrom a Paris Prim, entitled, «
. „ journal de la Lilerte."
After informing the Deputies of the Braban
tine states of the death of the Emperor Joleph
,rcu Cob:nZl > on Feb ruary 28th, „,Se
them the following proposals .
1. To withdraw the remainder of the trooDs
now in the callle of Baurain and its neighbour
hood, into the territory of Luxembourg • as also
those at Limbourg and Guelderland.
.2" To c . he e S e °f -Antwerp, and furnifh
the garrison with a fufliciency for their subsist
ence.
Y* rei.
S ' f '»>i
lher t,4,
onv trfr
ter >»»n-'
a Prude 81 ,
»«r Qci J
''7<M
'. c, yto thff
bailor.
3. To flop all further preparations for war
4- To set at liberty all officers, soldiers, and
iuch private perfonsas have been confined on ac
count of the troubles. This is meant alfoto in
elude the pn (oners in thecaltle of Luxembourg.
5. To forbid the printing and publifhing'all
seditious and inflammatory pieces and other wri
tings tending to prolong the present troubles.
6. 1 o deputize some of your body to confer
with me upon the molt eligible means of re-elta
hli.hing order, and taking the oaths of allegiance
to the Emperor Leopold, our new king and mas
ter, and to make the proper arrangements for
Ins inauguration. Tliefe gentlemen, appear to
me to be the wifeftlteps you can take at this time
I (hall count my ft If extremely happy if our uni
ted efforts can restore to the Belgic provinces
that peace and felicity which the pleasure of our
so vereign and the welfare of the people demands.
I have the honor to be, Sec.
Extrafl from ike Resolutions of the Brabant States
March 4.
" Read, the letter of Count Cobenzl of 28th
February, 1790.—Resolved, That the fame be
printed, and no other anfwermade.'
The curate of Notre Dame Chapel havino- or
dered his parish bell to be rung for the interment
of a young lady of his congregation, a milchiev
ous fellow reported that the bells were tolled on
account of the death of the Emperor. This so
enraged the populace,that they flew to the persons
place of abode, and did not leave it till eve
ry window therein was broken to pieces.
FRENCH NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
Paris, March 9.
A member of the Parisian national corps, has,
at the head of the troops, given in a catalogue of
the names of the citizens in arms, for which they
received the compliments of the president, who
cxprefled the pleasure he felt at receiving a lift of
the names of persons who had taken up arms for
the defence of their national freedom.
M. de la Luzerne has written to the affembiy
and requested them, in the name of the king, to
explain theinfelves upon the fubjedtofthe Ameri
can, African and A(iati'c colonies, at lead f 0 far
asis confident with the inftrudtions they are a
bout to give on that fubjetl. He has added an
account of the a<stual situation ofthofe colonies. '
This question has been referred to the commit- I
tee for colonial affairs. 1
W»h,
f . te Coun;
mtend.
e **8^
or > attend
ü blidj„
en « <4
s ; aalu
• morn
or of i
uheg
retail
*ever>:l
futurm. |
to It!
JH.
nformit
legem
id/"rani
1 the ft
Jutchei;
brongh
but tin
>lWui|
r, altho
. Alto,
bead up
ani Jul
ined so:
atioD.-
. The deputies of the people of Paris, headed by
•M. Bailli, the Mayor, have made report upon the
Jtateof such ecclesiastical hoofes as are to be put
up for sale. T wenty seven of them are reckoned
extremely valuable ; and at the nearcft and molt
probable eftimarion, about 200 millions oflivres.
it is generally thought that the proceeds of these
sales will coirtribute greatly towards re-establish
ing national credit.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES,
MONDAY, April 26.
On motion of Mr. T'itjtfimons, fecondedby Mr.
Burke, the committee of the whole was dischar
ged from further proceedings 011 the Report of
the Secretary at War, relative to a plan for the
organization and government ofthe militia of the
United States. The report was then referred
to a fele<fl committee.
Mr. Fitzfimons moved tliat the committee of the
whole Ihould for the prefentbe discharged from
further proceeding on that part of the kepoi t of
the Secretary of the Treasury, which relates to
the afl'umption of the State debts.
This motion produced a warm, tho desultory
debate.
Mr. Gerry, Mr. Vining, Mr. Smith, (S.C.) Mr.
Ames, Mr. Bland, and Mr. Sherman, opposed the
motion. It was supported by Mr. Madison,
Jackson, Mr. Stone, and Mr. Page.
Mr. Vining moved the previous question—which
being put in the manner following, " Ihall the
niain queltion be now put ?"—it was resolved in
the affirmative Ayes 32 —Noes 19.
The yeas and nays were then taken on the mo
tion of Mr. Fitzfimons, to wit. That the commit
tee of the whole be, for the present, discharged
from that part of the Report of the Secretary of
the Treasury which relates to an afl'uniptioii of
the State debts. AYES.
ftng
r,«w
'xtiu,
iaifc
tilt*
aceA:
, with
■'Cm
in his
Meflis. Aflie, Baldwin,Bloodworth,Brown, Car
rol, Clyitter, Coles, Contee,Fitzfimons, Floyd, GH
man, Griffin, Jackson, Lee, Madison, Mathews,
Moore, P. Muhlenburg, Page, Parker, Ranflelear,
Schureman,Scott,Seney, Sinnickfon, Smith, (M.)
CONGRESS.
iterfe, Stone, Summer, White, Williamfon,
Wynkoop. 32. NOES. '
"I"' B , land ' Boud i»ot, Burke. Foster,
■■if oodhne, Grout, Huntington, Livermore
" > Tucker, Vining, Wadi worth ifcj
So the queition was carried in the affirmative.
norr„Vlr? went into committee on the re
port of the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Livermore in the chair.
liiMnnc con J. 111ut " hav >ng agreed to certain reso
lutions, rose and reported the fame.
inn OUfe to ? k thefaid report into confidera-
* *
ilr at ade 9' jate P' ovifion ought to be
I '"g of the Unitec
states, in refpeeft to thejr foreign debt.
Resolved, That permanent funds ought to b<
impropriated for the payment ofintereft on, ant
he gradual d.fcharge of the domestic debt of th<
United States. >
Rcfolvcd, That the arrears of interest, inclod
ng indents issued in payment thereof, ou c ht ti
ae provided for on the fame terms with the prin
npal of the faiddebt.
That it it advifeable to endeavor t,
.'ffeftanew modification of the domestic debt
with the voluntary conf.nt of the creditors by •
loan, upon term* mutually beneficial to them an,
:o the United States.
Refohed That for thepurpofe expreffbd in thi
jaft preceding resolution, subscriptions towards :
loan ought to be opened, to the amount of th<
aid domestic debt, upon the terms following viz
That for every hundred dollars fubfcribedpav
»We in the faiddebt (as well interest as principal
he subscriber be entitled at his option, either '
Toliaye two thirds funded at an annuity'ol
nearly interest offix percent, redeemable at the
ileafure of the government by payment of the
snncipal, and to receive the other third in land
n the Western Territory, at the rate of twenty
:ents pr. acre—or,
To have the wholefum funded at an annuity 01
yearly interest of four pr. cent, irredeemable b>
iny payment exceeding fix dollars per annum on
iccount both of principal and interest—and tc
eceive as a compensation for the reduction ol
ntereft, fifteen dollars and eighty cents, payable
n lands as in the preceding cafe or
To have sixty-six dollars and two thirds of a dol
ar funded immediately at an annuity or yearU
ntereft of fix percent, irredeemable by any pay
nent exceeding fix dollars-per annum,on accouni
joth of principal and^ntereft—and to have atthe
?nd of seven years, thirty-three dollars and one
hird of a dollar, funded at the like interest and
•ate of redemption.
Resolved, 1 hat the funds which (hall .be ap.
>ropriated according to the second of the forego
ng resolutions, be applied in the firll place to the
jay went of interest 011 the funis fiibfcribed toward,
he proposed loan—and that if any part of the
aid domestic debt ftiall remain unfublcribed, the
urplusof the said funds be applied, by a tem'por
iry appropriation to the payment of interest or
:he unfubferibed part, so as not to exceed for the
present four per cent. pr. annum, but this limita
lion shall not be underiloodto impair the right ol
the non-fubferibing creditors totherefidue of the
interest on their refpettive debts : And in cafe the
aforefaid f'urplus should prove inefficient to pay
the non-fubferbing creditors * the aforefaid rate
of four pr. cent that the faith of government b<
pledged to make good such deficiency.
Mr. Stone, Mr. White, Mr. Sherman, Mr.Cly
mer, and Mr. Gilntan, were appointed a commit
tee to prepare and bring in a bill confen-ipable
to these Resolutions.
Mr. Gerry proposed a resolution, that a coin
mittee to confiftofa member from each State, and
an equal number, for, and against theaflumption.
be appointed to ronfider of and report a plan oi
accommodation on this fubje«ft.
This motion was laid on the table for furthe
consideration.
TUESDAY, APRIL 27.
Mr. Boudinot of the committee appointed to bring in a hill
providing for the mitigation of forfeitures accruing under the re
venue laws, brought in a report which was read.
A report from the Pod Master General, pursuant to orders of
the house, was read, relative to the eltabliffiment of Pnft-Offices
on the cross roads, transportation of the Mails, &c. alij a report
from the fame officer, on the memorial of Christopher Colles ref
pedting a fui-ey of the roads of the Uni ted States.
A mellage from the Senate, by thcirSecretary, was received, in
forming the House that thev have palled a bill 10 continue the ast,
palled the lad lcffion for regulating the Proceffei in the Judicial
Courts of the United States.
Mr. Cilman of the committee of enrolment, reported that the
| joint committee had examined the enrolled bill, entitled an ast to
regulate the military eftablilhmenl of the United States. The
Speaker signed this act.
In committee ot the whole on the Report of the Secretary of
the Treasury for the support of the public credit.
Mr. Fitziimons observed, that the bouse having determined the
rate of interest on, and the mode of funding the domestic debt of
the United States—it remains to devise the ways and means. In
order to bring the fubjeft before the committee, he proposed re
solutions, containing extracts from the Report, of the Duties pro
posed by the Secretary of the Trc;ifun . Theferefolutions were read
by the Clerk, as follows, viz. Refolvtd, That from and after the
day of next, thedutie# heretofore laid upon
wines, distilled spirits, teas and coffee, Ihall cease, and that instead
of them the fallowing duties be vjz. Jirjolvcd, That
435
~££ SMS&Eysssf - —
Upon evay gallon of other Wine, twentv cents
Upon every gallon of dillillcd Spmts, more than ten per «nt
below proof, according to Dicas', hydrometer, twenty cent,
Upon every gallon of those Spirits under five, and not more than
twXr^tl 0 " PrOQf ' —^
Upon every gallon of those Spirits of proof, and not more than
PPot'r ° ot ' accordln S to the fame hydrom'e"
Upon every gallon of those spirits above proof, but not exceed
five ce W nts my P " ( ° thC hydrometer, twenty-
Upon every gallon of those Spirits more than twenty, and not
drZIS ab ° VC Pr °° f ' aCC ° rd,ng t0 thC fa " lC h V"
Upon every gallon of those Spirits more than forty per cent a
bove proof, according to the hydrometer forty cents.
Upon everypounu of Hyson Tea,forty cents.
Upon everypound of other Green Tea, twenty four cents
Upon every pound of Souchong and othdr black Teas, except
Bohea, twenty cents. "ccpc
Upon every pound of Bohea Tea, twelve centS.
Upon every pound of C"fFee, five cents.
That upon Spirits distilled within the United States, from Mo
laffet,Sugar, or other foreign matcrhh, there be paid-L
I pon every gallon of those Spirits, more than ten per cent, be
low proof, according to Dicm's hydrometer, eleven c-nts
Upon every gallon of thrift- Spirits under five, and not morj than
tvvelve centi!' ' iCCOIAia S 10 thc fa,ne hydrometer,
' Upon every gallon of those Sp.rits of proof, and not more than
\ thirteencents. **« hydro,--,
Upon every gallon of those Spirits, above proof, but not ex
' fifteen ce'nT y P " aCC ° rdmg '° fame ll >' drom «"
I Upon every gallon of those Spirits, more than twenty, and no
moie than forty per cent. ,bove proof, according to the fame hy
drometer, twenty cents. •
I pen every gallon of those Spirits more than forty per cent
above proof according to the fame hydrometer, th.rty cent,.
' That upon Spirits distilled within the United States
Hnrt- Y ° r ? lUgC ' from material. of 'he growth or pro
auction of the United States, there be paid— P
Upon every gallon of those Spirit, more than ten per cent be
low proof, accord,ng to Dicas>, hydrometer, nine cVnts
Upon every gallon of those Spirits under five, and not mor
t "n'cents"' proof, according to the fame hydrom
Upon every gallon of those Spirit, of proof, and not more th„
eleven cents'. Pr °° f ' * lhe hydromeL,
eeeH?„ on 7' :ry . gallor,of those S P lri " above P r oof, but not ex
thirteen cen'ts" P " ,0 famc M'ometer
Upon every gallon of thoCe Spirits more than twenty, and no
Upon every gallon of those Spirit,, more than forty per cent
c «r "" ,lt " me h ' d ~'
• i rha , t L P ° n a ". Stllls employed in dillilling Spirits from mate
Zr S ll hr r Wthor of'he Umtcd States,™ an vo
1,1 S c,y. town or village, there be paid the yclrl
fum of (my cents, for every gallon, Englilh wine measure of th.
paatv of each Still, including its head. '
the hnnf ref °' ut ' ons wcre agreed to in committee,and reported U
i„„ ?'a Tt ,m "«d'atelv took the fame into conf.dera!
on, and adopted the report with an amendment to the duty o,
rem propo^ d b X Mr - Parker in the following words '• Or
cent, p Cr gallon on Spirit, dialled trom grain-and
pr gal.on on Spirits distilled from fruit, in such Stills.
A committee- wasthen appointed, confiding of Mr Fitzfimom
Mr. Huntington Mr Jackson, Mr. Contee, and Mr. Bloodworth
to bring in a biU conformable to the said resolutions '
in. COl " m ' ttec ot thc whole on the bill providing the means of
Bv C r Vn tWCCn thC United S 'at« and foreign nations ° f
for thin r" V P r °P oCrd 'hat 50000 doJJais be app,opriated
lor the purposes therein mentioned. F
' Plenipotentiary be allowed the sum of „„«>
tKXte 10 3 poten-^
4 douccur ' ;t was m °- d
tim^^tMr'b^infre'c 8 .,^ ff ° m ">e
The committee then rose, and reported the bill with amend.
Mr. Oilman moved that an addition of seven member* hr
Post Master General were referred to a feleft committee confid
ing of a member from each State. '
, The for accepting the cession of the Light House within the
bar of the harbor of Charleston it was moved fliould be refered to
Adjourned. Trafur y- wh ' ch ™ voted in the affirm,^
NEW-YORK, WEDNESDAY, APRIL 28.
1 , I ;r t T S ,i fVom E "g ,a " d received at Philadelphia
by the 1 alt arrivals mention that the Court of Low
don has ordered 24 the line to be imme
diately equipped and all its officers on half pav
to be recalled. v 3
The philosophical society of Pejmfylvaniahave
unanmioufly voted that an Oration fliall be deliver
ed byoneot their members in honor of their Presi
dent, the illultrious Dr. Franklin.
The H°„ John WAL«»,Erq; of Virginia, elofted a Senator
bv ,he executive of that state, to fill the vacancy occafionrd in the
S nateof the United States, by the death of the Hon. William
Graylon, took his feat on Monday in that honorable bodv.
JPT Su ''f\ r,l " rs l<" < he Gazette of the United States may be fur
volume" numbtrs complete, J rom tie commencement of the ftconi
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NLW-YORK.
Ship Ann and Susan, Chevers Dublin.
Lord Middleton, Hewgill, Montego Bay,
Packet Queen Charlotte, Radelift, Falmouth and Halifax
Ship London, Woolfey, London,
Ship Lord North, Northover, Pool.
Schooner Betsy, Davidfon, Montego Bay.
Sloop Patty, Pond, St. Martins.
Prig Nelly, Buchannan, Martha Brae.
Brig Rambler, Gilchrift, Havre de Grace ;
ccnti! DISCOURSES ON DAVILA.
Fcciix qu'em faciunt aliens pericu'.a cauturr.
TUT. French nation, known in antiquity under the appcilMio
of the Franks, were originally from the heart of Germany
In the declension of the Roman hmpire, they inhabited a countr
in the North, along the river Rhine, lituated between Bavari
and' Saxony, which still prcferves the name of Franconin. Havin;
cxceffivelv multiplied, as it happens in cold climates, their coun
try was tonnd, n it fulnc iently - xtenfive to contain them, nor ler
tile enough to nourish them. Excited hy the example of thci
neighbours, they resolved by a common voice, to divide them
Jelves into two nations ; one of which thould continue to inbabi
their ancient country; and the other endeivor to procure clfe
"where by the force ot arms, an establishment more vad, mor<
commodious and more fertile. 1 his enterprise was resolved, am
this division made by unanimous content. Such as were deftinet
hy lot, to essay their fortune, although trained to war, and inca
pable of teiror at the appreheßfion of the danger# of such an en
terpnf^; thought however, that thev ought not to abandon :t t.
anarchy or hazard, but to conduct it with prudence and order
To concert the measures necelfary for the execution of their pro
jest, they atTcmbled in the plains, in the neighbourhood ot th.
river Sala. Accufionned for many ages, to live in the obedienc.
of a prince ; and thinking the monarchical (late the most convc
nierit to a people who afpirc to augment their power, and extent
their conqueds, they relolved to .hoofra king, who lhould uniti
in his single pcrfon, all the authority ij the nation. Here perhap
Davila is incautious and inaccurate; lor the Fianks, as well a.
Saxons and other German nations, though their government
were monarchical, had then Grandees and people, who met anc
deliberated in National Aflemblies, whose results were often t<
fay the lead, confidercd as laws. Their great misfortune was
that, while it never was fufliciently afccrtained, whether the so
vereignly refidcd in the kine or in the national ajjembly, it wa
equally uncertain, whether the king had a hegwive on the adem
bly; whether the Grandees had a negative on the king or thi
people; and whether tl)r people had a negative on both, oreither
This uncertainty will appear hereafter in Davila Inmfelf, to marl
itscourfe in bloody chai afters; and the whole hidory ofFtance wil
shew, that from the fird migiation of the Franks trom German)
to this hour, it has never brrii fufficientlv explained and decided
To this supreme degree of power in the king a» Djvila pto
ccedsUhey added, that the crown should be hereditary in the la
mily 'clefted ; forcfeeing, that if tt were eU3tve, it would be
fourceof civil wars, which would prove dettruftive to all thci
enterprifa. Mankind, in new eftablifhmems generally ast witl
iiiicerity. and with a tingle view to the public good. They litter
neither to the ambition nor the intcrctt of private persons; An.
Pharamond was eleftcd king, by unanimous content. He was ;
son of Marcomir, ilTue of the blood which ha 1 governed the na
lion for many ages : And, to an experienced valor, united a pio
found wiMom, in the art of government; it was agreed that th.
fame title and equal power, lhould descend to his legitimate pof
tcriiy of the male line, in default of which the nation should re
turn to their right of elrfting a new fovcreign. But as unlimitec
authority may easily degenerate into tyranny, the Franks, ai th,
time of the elcftion of their king, demanded the eftabbdimc.it o
certain perpetual and irrevocable laws, which should regulate tin
order of fucceOion to the throne and prftcribe in a few words
the form of government. These laws proposed bv thc.rpr.clU
whom they named A'a/wi; and inttituted in the fields which tak.
their name from the river Salt,were originally called SaUque lau,
and have been considered, from the edablithmem of the monar
chy, as the piimitive icgulations and fundamental corllitulion
of the kingdom. ... j rr
Leaving their country to the old Prince Marcom.r. and palCnj
the Rhine, under the command ot Pnaramond, the I ranks march
ed to the conquctt of the Gauls, about the four hund.ed and nine
tcentli year of the christian Ara. The Roman legions united w ltl
the Gaulish troops refilled Pharamond, till his death. Ibeiccp
ter was left to his son Clodion, an intrepid prince, lathcflowc
Of his age, who in fe, cral battles defeated .he ..a.i.mso!! : coun
trv, diflipatcd the Roman armies, and ellab.tlhed lumf 11 in Ik.
Kick Gaul. Merovius, who fuccecded h.m, made * rapid pre
rrefs ; penetrated into Celtic Gaul and extended his empire t.
the gates or Par,,; judging that he had conquered co ntry eoongl
,o contain his/übjecls, and form a date of reatonable extern, h,
limited the coin fe of his exploits, and turned .ill his C«res i.
peace, after having united under the fame laws, and the lam.
name; the conquerors aud .he vanqu.lhed, whom he govern, c
peaceably; he died leaving the Franks solidly eftablithcd m Gau,
Such is the origin ot the French monarchy and such are hci
fundamentallaws. r ,
By the dispositions of the fame laws, the work of the nation, at
regulated,the rights and prerogatives of the Princes of the Blood
As each of th.m, in detank of d,reft heirs, may, according t
his rank, be called to the crown, the,, imeretts are neceffaril;
connected with those of the date. The people regard these privi
Ices, as inviolable: Neither length of time, nor dittance ofd.
cree has ever done them any injury. All these princes prefers
she rank which n.tuie has allotted thAn.lo succeed to the throne
They have indeed, in the course of time, taken difitre.it nanus
Inch « those of Vuhi>, «>r Pourbon, of Orleans of Argoulme o
Vendome, of Alenc«n, of Monttenfyr-, bin .hey have not by he
means loft the rights attached to the royal consanguinity, that
< fpeeially of fuceeeding lo the uown; these diffcient bunches
have from time to time affetted the pre-eminences due to the.
Mood; .0 intered them the more forcibly, in the Preferva
lion of a crown to which, hi succession, they be called
it has been commonly made a rule, in cafe ot the minority, o
absence of the lawful thing, to choose for the tutors or regent.o
the kiivdom, the princes who were neared related ; it would no
naiedle natural to cntrufl the administration to the hands o
drangers. who might destroy, or atfc.il d.fmember to beant fu
a date • Whcr as p.in-es born of the fame blood, oiight, tor tha
reason, to watch over the eortfen-ation of an inheritance whtel
belongs to them, in li.me fort. This right is not (imply toundc.
upon usage : Ihe Jlates generaloi the Kingdom in whom res.de
"he entire powe, of the whole lotion whom they represent hav
freouenily confirmed it."-Here aga.n we meet with another in
Vccuracv. if not a contradiction in Davxta ; or rather with ano.be
proof'ot that confufion et law, and that uncertainty of the fove
reicnty. whirl, for ,500 years has been to France, the fatal fourc
of so rrianv <alamiii. s : Here .lie sovereign.v, or whole power c
Vhe nation, is afTerte.l to be in thcjlate,general-, whereas only thre
pages before, he had afTer.ed that the whole authority of the nati
on was united in the Kmg. ,1.1 >
The fe two prerogatives, of succeeding to the throne when a
kine die*- « itli"»t in.ifeulirie pod.-rity, ami of governing the king
dom dm ing the absence 01 m.nority of the legitimate fov.reig*
have at all times procured to .he princes of the blood, a great
authority among the people, and the bed part in ,!„■ gover
" Thev have applied the.nf.lves accordingly
remarkable to the admin.ftration of ar,l mp.ie, wh.
h" regauled with j-ittce as iheir pa.r.mony : And the pcopl,
~g.hat hav-them one day for theirfirtt Mag,
3 a ... I ,ive always shewn them the more refpeft, as they hav
rootc't'hon or. :e know,, theyonnger branches toafcend .he Throne
, : ,:, r ( Idcr. Thus the Crown has pa (Ted from th.
Merovingians to the Carlovingians and finally .0 the Capeuans
but always from male to mac, iiu j"j° h°K „° K ° j."u, s the
eleventh"'vihoin Ili' innocence of his life and the integrity of his
cltvenu , J. n „ m ber ps the Saints. He left two
r nann rVil o" ■ 'hud fnrnanicd .he Hardy ; and Robe,., F.arl of
>, ns , l'h 'IP eon.inii d the elder branch, which reigned
(. lermont. a , cc ! years, and took the surname of Valois.
more tn«R 1
From Robcjt is defecnded the younger branch. Or the lioufe of
Bourbon, so railed, from the province, ni which it poffeffediK
fettle ment. This house, refpettahie not only by birth, which pla
ced it near the throw, but ajlo by the extentot its' aidl . ch
ev bv the valour and number ol its Princes, almollall diltingu fh
edby their merit and a f.ngular affability : arrived soon at an
hth degree ot power. Th,s elevation, joined to the bvour of the
Wxri'ed aira.nltthe Bourbons, the jealousy and envy of the
crcd.t a„d ditl.nguVd tpl.odor d.fp.ea
fed and alarmed Everyday brought I relK occaltons oi hatred
suspicion and dillruft, which fevera, times broke out in arms;
Thus in the war Jar the fmUic good, John Duke ot Bourbon declar
ed himfclf againkt Louis the ekvtnth ; and Louis the tyjelfth be
fore his acceLn to the throne, was at war with Peter of Bourbon
The iealouf.es which these Princes inlmred into Kings, exposed
them fometimfs to lecet vexations and lometimes todecbred
entities. We mav add to this refkdion of Davi L.vthat uut
""eamly probable, that these Princes by frequently betraying
lymptomsot ambition, afpir.ngatthe throne,might give to Kings,
iuft grounds of jealousy and alarm.
Before we proceed in our discourses on Davi i.a, it will affill
us in comprehending his narration, as w.ll as in making many
' uftlul relleftions u. morals and policy to turn our thoughts for a
'< few moments to the contention of the human mind. This we
; lhall endeavour to do in our next essay.
PHILADELPHfA, 22 April.
Tlie following was the order of I'roceffion vel
terday at the funeral of our late learned and il
lustrious citizen, Dr. FRANKLIN.
■■11l the Clervy of the city, before the corple.
THE COIIPSE,
Carried by Citizens.
The Pall supported by The President of the Stare,
the Chief Justice— the President of the Bank,
Samuel Powell, William Bingham, and
David Rittenlioufe, Efquircs,
Mourners,
Confilting of die family of the deceased—with a
number of particular friends,
The Secretary and Members ot the Supreme
Executive Council.
TheSpeakerandMembers of theGeneralAflembly.
Judges of the Supreme Court,
And other Officers of Government.
The Gentlemen of the Bai.
The Mayor and Corporation of the city of
Philadelphia.
The Printers of the city, with their Journeymen
and Apprentices.
The Philolophical Society.
The College oi Physicians.
The Cincinnati.
The College of Philadelphia.
Sundry other Societies—together with a numer
ous and refpecftable body of Citizens.
The concourse of fpetlators was greater than
ever was known on a like occasion. It is confu
ted that not less than 20,000 persons attended and
wirnefled the funeral. The order and silence
which prevailed, daring the Proceflion, deeply
evinced the heartfelt J'enf'e, entertained by all
clafles of citizens, of the unparralleled virtues,
I talents, and services of the deceased.
This day the Supreme Executive Council of
Fennfylvania, agreed to wear mourning for one
month, in memory of their great and good fellow
ciiizen, Dr. Fry nki. in .
LONDON, February 1
r King of Sweden in all his preparations
X for another campaign, has recourse to this
country for money and science ! An eminent
merchant is now authorised by him to negociate
a loan of half a million, at fix per cent, and to
engage furgcons for the army, at the rate of 61.
per niontli, with an allowanceof2l. 10s. for sub.
liltence : the interest and the salary are fuflicient
to invite man) adventurers.
Madame Mafl'on, the celebrated Tennis-player,
lately arrived from Paris, has had audience of
his royal highness the Duke of York.—ThisGal
.lunt heroine of the Raquet, it seems, challenges to
plav with any person in Europe for one thousand
guineas.—The royal Duke is to have the honor of
firft entering the lilts with her, flie plays in her fe
male attire a la Crecque, with a short petticoat and
drawers.
So warm a party spirit is excited at Manchester,
by the application of the diflenters for a repeal of
the tdt a»ft, that upwards of three-hnndred gen
tlemen have formed theijifelves into a club for the
f'lpport of the church : they wear an uniform of
lilac,'with fear let collars ; the collegiate clmrcli
on tile button,with the motto, " Pro Arts et Focis."
The French afletnbly have fettled pensions up
on such of the Monks as chool* to leave the ino-
nafteries
The English government not in the least con
cerning itlelf with the education of youth, seems
to be a capital defeiTt. Any perfou, however,
meanly qualified, is at liberty to open a school, a
liberty which does often a great deal of milchief.
The lower clafles of people are much negledicdin
their education,and much more foin England than
in Scotland. In the latter, literature is encourag
ed almost to a fault, there scarce being a cow
keeper or falinon-catcher, in that country, who
does not understand Latin, a little Greek, elo
cution, ancient my-thology, &c. were government
to lay heavy fines upon all unqualified teachers,
both learning and its profeH'ors would foonbere
fpetftable. Our national superiority with refpedt
to sciences was much more conspicuous in the be
ginning of the present century than at this pe
riod.
with
436
PROPOSAtS,
JOHN T R U MBU L L,
For pnbliftritrg bt dSttcriptwn,
TWO PRINT S,
From ORIGINAL. PICTURES painted by himlelf ;
REs * ESENT 1 NO
The DEATH of General WARREN,
At the Bailie ol' Bunkrr's-HiN'; and
The DEATH of General MONTGOMERY ,
Irt the Attack of Outbcr,
IJ| the Battle of Bunker's Hill, the following Portraits arc nvrs
-1 duccd, Am{.*ica.n. , B --'TJvr' r
Major General Wirrhr, General birWi' "»' •
Putnam, Sfr Henry Ofittib,
Lieut* Cot. Jfo/i'n •Smfil't
Major Pitcairr, And
Lieut. Pticdir/r.
In the Attack of Quebec, arc feci!, .
Central Montgomery, Major Mufhcr^n,
Colonel Thomson, Captain thee J man.
CONDITIONS of SUBSCRIPTION
THE Prints wtUbr engraved by two of the mojl eninmt <'!'•''/< < »
Europe. Thejiu will be 30 inches by 20. The price tefubfcribers,
three guinea? for each tnnt, one half to be paid at the time
the remainder on the deliver, oj the Prints, fich W/ be,ufi*.istht
work (whichis steady (orfierakti advanced) car, pofrbly U
Svbfcriptiom are r tee toed in America, nli by Mr. Trum<>« ■
[trillion receipt* tpijl bejigned by him, as well as by \lr.lo?guoj Lon
donunder iLlioJe dnefipn the prints are engraving, and wilt Oe put-
I J fad.
' These Prints are the firj of a Jeries, in which it is proposed to rtfrc-
Cent the moll important events *J the American revolution.
No period ol tin liijlory oj man is more ititerefhnJ than that in which
me have hied. Ihe memory of scenes in which were laid theJounda.
Hons of that free government, which secures our national and inamaual
• haptinefs, null nmain ever dear to us, and topojlenty ; and if national
Pride hin any cafe jujlifiable, Americans have'a right U glory m having
given to the world an example, whose influence is rapidh fpreadmg the
ove of freedom through other nations, and every'where ameliorating the
, Icohdition of men. . n ■ i l i
To a (Jilt in preserving the memory of the illujlrious event? zenten htf ve
may kea this period »J our country's glory, as well as oj the men who have
j been the inojt important adors in them, is the objett o) this undertaking.
Historians will do jufiice to an ara Jo important.; but to be read, the lan
guage in which thev write, muff he underjlood —the language of Painting
is univerfal,Mnd intelligible in all nations, and every age.
As feverlll years of his time, and d very con filer able expence, are neces
sary to acctmj.lt/ll this undertaking, it wouldbean imprudent J acnpee to
the mere hope of reputation, to go more deeply into it, without a probah
l,t yof ultimate faccefs. That he may judge of the degree oj this fro,** x
hility, Mr. Trumbull, h the advice of uiJfriends, proposes thisjuhjcrip
tion, and flatters tun felf ul th a hope iif meeting that patronage from lur
countnm.,,, I, Mjuflfy his furfuing the objeS with ardor, and
without which it is impoffllfelhdt Jo expenpre* zcorkfhould be continued.
Thefubjecls probofed to he represented, in addition to the two jorego
inn, of Punhcr's-liilland Quebec,arc
* The DECLARATION o/TNpIJPENDENCE,
* BATTLE at TRENTON,
* IJATTI.K if PRINCETON,
SURRENDER of General BURGOYNE,
TREATY with FRANCE,
BATTLE nj EUTAW SPRINGS,
* SURRENDER cj YORK-TOWN,
TREATY »/ PEACE,
EVACUATION 0/ NEW-YORK.
RESIGNATION 0/ General WASHINGTON,
The ARCH at TRENTONt
INAUGURATION of the PRESIDENT of the UNITED
STATES.
Each piaur? will contain Portraits of thepriTicift.il charaQrrs, wo
/i in reprrjmttd. 7 hose narheiwiOi Slarst
far hi; ' adyantei—and the Prints from the whole will be exectf
fame fit, and by thrmofl cminnt engravers.
A'ew-Ycrk. April 7, 1 790;
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby given to all the creditors of Phiur
Denmak, now confined in the common gaol of Newark,
in the county of Essex, That the Honorable Court of Common
Pleas, in and for laid county, have appointed Tuefaay t.ie 25th
day of May next, for the creditors of said Philip Denman, to meet
at the Court house in Newark, at time o'clock of ihedav aforefaid,
and shew cause to the judge of the fa.d Court if any they have,
why an afligujneut of the said infolvcnt debtors cftate ihould not
be made, fiid he discharged according to ths a£l of the Lcgifto
turc of New-jerfev in such cafe made and provided.
PHILIP D£XMAN T .
Afrit 14, 1790.
To SOLD,
For CERTIFICATES, Or exchanged for LAND,
r I nVENTY-Two acres of ground in tne City of New-York,
X fronting Great George-Street, BowryLane, and Qreenwich-
Lane. On the premises is a btick d welling'houfe containing
rooms; a smaller biick house with lour rooms; a house with a
brick front with two rooms: In each house is a Kitchen, and un
der the whole four cellars; a never failing spring is near 011 cOl
the kitchens; a frame stable and a coach-houfc with ftablfJ.
From the dwelling house hoth the North and the Eafl rivers arc
plain to the view. Additional improvements have been made
this Spring, th*r ground has been laid out for pleasure as wt«l »
ior utility ; it vis provided with variety of orchard and other fruit;
part of the land ha& also been sown with .timothy and clover.
To be told for certificates of the national debt, which will be re
ceived at the nominal valu<*, Dollars at Bs. Or for good upland,
cvtn il covered with wood, provided it is filuated on the follow
ing! ivcrs, or on crceks as far as navigable,comwuhicating; with the
fame, viz. At the Potowmac above Alexandria,at James K' vCl a "
hove Richmond, in South-Carolina, about one hundred milcsfrom
the sea fhoie, on Santee Edifto or Ponpon river, or on Savanna \
| river. It not fold a-t private sale befor® the 15th of May,
I then on the above terms he dilpeded of by Public Vtndtft at t c
\ merchants Coffee-Houfe.—For further particulars enquire of N r -
Poii.lnitz on the premises. New-York April 10, i 79 0, _
CASH, and a generous price given for Conti
nental, New-Hamp(hire, Maffacbufeus, and Rhodc-Iflana
fetunties, of every by
EBENEZER jun. No. 59, Water-Street-
Ncw-Yotk, April 17, 1790. j.
William Taylor,
Has Tor S«lc, at his lAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, Bur ling-Slip, 1
Aflortinent of EAST-INDIA GOODs.
which are the following Articles :
BOOK Myflins 8-4 6-4 5-4 fl HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. j| Long Cloths,
HankcrchiefsjoP various kinds,|| Caffas,
Chintzes, || Seersuckers,
Ginghams, || 80-jjlapores.
A Variety of lvandfome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece or
Package, low for cash.
)
;?
it
< fjM
, Tt
. jr>