[No. io6.—Vol. 11-j
THE TABLET
« Thefuffrage of thofc who arc shy and backward in giving
p.aifc, is attended with an additional rel.fh and enjoyment.
MY last number offered fonte remarks on the
caution that should be used in the choice
of confidential friends. It is of nolefs importance
to be flow and diffident in bellowing commenda
tions on persons or anions. There is no species
of indiscretion that men oftener hr-.-e orcafion to
repent of, than pnffing to. hasty a on
the charadlersandincidents that areprelented to
their view. One inconvenience of falling into
an habit of judging prematurely is, that it ren
ders an opinion suspicious, even in those inftan
ces, where it may be well-founded Applause,
conferred by a person who speaks much and thinks
little, affords no delight to a man of a found un
demanding. We cannot reafonablybe plealed
•with approbation, unlel's we are conscious of de
serving it; and when it conies from a man who is
rash and unguarded in his expressions, it does
not brighten our reputation, and should not gra
tify our feelings. When men are cautious of
wjvLng praise, if they are likewise modeftin their
censures, we muftafcribe it to pi udence and de
licacy. This kind ot reserve may sometimes re
sult from a cold heart, but whatever may be the
cause of it, the person who poflefles it, will com
mand attention and i-efpetft. Prudence, by no
means, requires a forbidding afpedi in our man
ners ; but it prohibits a forward, impudent one.
A stem demeanor is better than a frivolous
but both should be avoided. That mildness of
behavior that makes men amiable is not incom
patible with the ftriifteft propriety of conduit,
gr with a most cautious reserve in giving opinions.
Mirth and gaiety may be indulged ; but there
can be no weight of character without reflection
and (bbiiety.
Those tliouglitlefs men who condemn where
there is 110 fault, and praise whete there is no
merit, will gain little confidence in the world.
Ccnfurc as w»JI as applaule, to have any effect,
must not appear to be indiscriminate. It should
aim at a particular point, and be directed by juit
views. Ifto avoid a charge of ill nature a man
becomes insincere, he betrays weakness ; and if
a delire to {hew an independent spirit makes nim
censorious, it is psrverfenefs, No man will wifli
the applause, or fear the censure of him, who is
accuflomed to bestow extravagant encomiums 011
indifferent adlions, or to heap reproaches on inno
cent ones. Modefl men are those whole praise
has a charm, and wliofe reproof has a fling.
Bold, afl'uming characters are never highly es
teemed by any ; and people only treat them with
civilities to avoid tlie trouble of a quarrel.
r once knew a lioify, impertinent coxcomb run
into extravagant applause. at the performance o
a fiddler. A discreet by-ftander, obfervmg such
profufe compliments thrown away 011 so trifling
a rharatfter, said, " what encomiums might not a
man of real excellence expert, when a low mufi
eian is praised so lavishly ?'
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
MONO AY, MARCH 22
Itrtsr'l of the Committee on the Memoriall of the people called Qua her
under covjidcration.
MR Boudi not faid,altho' hemoftheartily approved of manv
of the arguments and doftrinesof his lion, triend from Pei
nfvlvam»,yethecouldrotgo all lengths with him- H e t OU R''
•with him, that our time had been taken up, and great labor had
been used in arguments that no wife related to the merits o e
oueftion before the committee, but he could not agree t m e
clause in the constitution relating to the want of P°wer 10 "
eref% "to prohibit the importation of such persons, as any or
the States new cxiJHng (hall think proper to adm.t, priorr to the
vear ,8„8, and authoring a tax or duty on such >mport a t,°n, no.
exceeding 10 dollars for each person, ' did not ex en g
(laves.— Candor required that he Ihould acknowledge tl.at this
was the express dcfign of theconftitution, and thcretor^° ng ''
coulj not interfere i« prohibiting th« ■mpoitatioe or promoting
'*»T3r "3
or duty of 10 dollars, was provided infteaa o t e5 p
valorem, and was so exprefslv understood by all part.esm the Con
ventioni That therefore it was the interest and duty of Cong.ef. 1
10 imyofe this tax, or it would not be doing justice 0 done
equjlizingthe duties throughout the Union. t lS^ ; \ u j
merchants might bring tjTe.r whole capitals into thi. b rMehrf
tiade.and save paying any duties whatever. Mr. Boudmo.had
hoped, that the great lengths which the hon. grnt cman -mile,
fylvania had carried the argument, would have c ° nv,n^ ltv 0 f the
men in the op pofitian, of the propriety, if not t e ncc y .
rcfblutions ontfie table. Is it not prudent now, w i _
of the trainers of the constitution is well known, and w 1
information can he obtained, for Congress to declare t cir
it, on points which the gentlemen fay involve their yea a
icntial interests, efpccially when the gentleman from Penn >
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 9, MAIDEN-LANE, NEW-YORK.
No. CVI.
SATURDAY, APRIL 17, 1790.
gives so different a conftrufl-ion to it, from wliat the geutlemei
from the southward think right. Is it not advantageous to th
iouthern States to have an explicit declaration calming their fears
and preventing unnecrtTary jealouGcs m this fubjeft. Can llier
3eany foundation for alaim, when Congress expressly declares
hat they have no power of interference prior to the year 1808
Jut gentlemen fay that they hove been charged with impropriety
>1 conduct, in dilcovenng so much warmth and earnettnefa, on ;
übieft with which their dtareft interests are so intimately con
iccted—That all men are led oy interest and they are juftified ii
lurfuing the fame line of conduct.
Mr. Boudinont declared far his own part, he never blamei
hem for flandingforth for what 'hey conceived the true interest
if thejr continents—but is was th ' inner in which this hat
wen done, that he complained tfr. .
On resolutions declaring that Congrefj had not power to prohi
lit the importation of flaws into any state, or intcrlcnng 111 then
mancipation or internal govt rnment, l<>ng arguments had beet
ifed and much precious time had been spent ; to prove the law
ulnefs of the African trade in slaves. This indeed was an ardu
.us talk in this day of light and knowledge—an author said to bi
if reputation, was brought forward to prove the state of that un
iappy country, but it turned out to be in the 15th century , thi:
ould be of little avail—an hour was taken up in reading the la.
lorsof a newspaper writer in the illand of Jamaica. This write:
ppeared wholy mifintormed as to historic facts relating to th«
inferable Africans, and as ignorant of the principal arguments a
ainft the slave trade. It was nectffary for him to deny the au.
hority of Anthony Benezet, who had published some point"
afls on this fubieft. Mr. Benezet was a man of the ftrittelt in
egrity and of the best information-a man that was an honor tt
lis country and an ornament to society. Mr. Boudinot had beet
veil acquainted with him and spoke from personal knowledge
.e had examined into the facts from captains of Guineamen, ant
person who had lived twelve years in that country, and he coult
ay with confidence, that Mr. Benezet's account had been ge
1 orally confirmed. Not only the praftife of ancient nations, ant
hat of all modern Europe had been brought into view, but eve.
he fat-red fcripturcs had been quoted to juftify this iniquitoustraf
,c It is true that the Egyptians held the Israelites in bondage
or 400 years, and Mr. Boudinot doubted not, but much the sam
rguments as had been uied on the present occafian, had bee.
rged with great violence by the k.ng of Egypt, whose heart, it>
xprefsly said, had been extremely hardened, to (hew why h
hould not consent to let the children of Uriel go, who had nov
iccome abfoluteJy neceflary to him—but said he, gentlemen can
lot forget the consequences that followed-they were del.vere.
>y a ftiong hand and stretched out arm, and it ought to be re
□erabered that the Almighty power that accomplilhed their de
ivecance, is tbe fame yelterday, to-day and forever. The ncv
eftament has afforded a number of texts to countenance this doc
rine, in the gentleman's opinion : One would have imagined a
he uniform tenor of the gospel, that breathe, a fpir.t of love an.
miverfal philanthropy to our fellow creatures—that command
.ur love to our neighbor to be measured by our love to ourselves
hat teaches us that whatsoever we would that me., (hould do tt
,s. to do so to them, would have prevented
urely the hon gentleman dm ' r " j" „T,
vhere he foretells, that among other damnable heretics, Through
oveteonfnefs (hall they with feigned words, make merchandize
° f Annotation from a modem author of great not. in the f philofo
>hical world, ha. been most ungenerously made by ih
ewfpaper writer before referred to—l mean ( r0 ™A*
he famous Mr. Paley, whose treat.fe on moral
lira the greatest credit-a Gngle sentence or two «taken!irom i thi
»ork, without regard to the connexion, to brand him with thi
harge of countenancing slavery Mr. Boud.oot
he book and read the passage, wherein it appeared that Mr Pa
Ly hid down " the obligation of slavery to arise * r ° m "
aptivity and debt-That the slave trade oo the coaA: of AlFnca i
lot excused by these principle.. That no q«ft.OD S »re tlKre aftj
d relative .o the juft.ee of the vender', t.tle-butths.. thejea
rime with which this traffic ,i charKaole—TKenat, vejareexc
d to war-with this the wickedneT.
v«y from parents, wives, childien, jro*" l r aretranf
unions, their fields and flock., then home and <^ ntr V- "f «™» f
,a. never been proved that > revo i ution „
he present fituatioo of the United a«ie». e . , .
mftitution replete with human misery,
,n empire themoft extensive that "er age^
quarter of the world. He then (hews . h :/^L n j lv appeared
the civil constitution of most c°L ore f,iy condemnor pro
and the reason that it. precept, did not «pref.lyconae .
hibit slavery was, because soliciting adm ™ 0 f any xhei
ibftained from meddling with the ClV ' wr iter That the dil
follows the paffcge quoted W the waftert> which ;
iharging of slave. from all obligatio , r i wou id have n<
he clnfequence of pronouncmg the other
setter effefl than to let loose one ha f of whicl
s'avet would have been tempte would hardly have beet
.(Terted their right to freedom-maften, u £™J ority . th(
>erfuaded to consent to claim. r,nilt raicht probably havi
noft calamitous of ' i
rnfutd to the reproach, if not the-extmtuon or
3e then assert. that of civil government
Movifroni of laws and under the protean o
;hnft.amty can only operate a. an in[cn( . bl ,
ufion of its l.ghts and cnormltic> wh i c h folly, wick
""
v set forth than I ld this unnatural traffic, o
But when gentlemen wemp J advert to the gen
o prove thelawfulnefs of slavery , tney i revo i ut j on . B<
us of our government andthe p,nc.jrfes of Iter
he declaration of Congref. in' >'75. u 5 possible for m«
teceflity of uk.ng up arms, author of ou
PRICE THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN
mination never rightfully rrfilhble however severe and oppretlive,
the inhabitant's of these Colonies, might at leait leqUire trom thj
parliament of Great-Britain, lomc evidence thai tins dreadful au
thority over them, had been granted to that body." And by the
declaration ot Independence in Congress declare, We
hold these truths to be felt-evident : that all men are created (-*
qual; that they are endowed by their creator, with certain una
lienable right! : that among these arellifte t liberty, and the pur
suit of happinefi."
This then is the language of America in the day of distress.
Mr. Chairman, I would not be understood, to contend the rigfct
of Congress at this time to prohibit the importation ot slaves,
whatever might have been the principles of the revolution or the
genius of the government •, by the present confutation we are
hrrby artd pofiti**f!y restrained till the year 1808, and I am lure
that no gentleman in thij commiitee would have the moll distant
wish to wound this ittftrurrleot of our conneftioh
But there is a wide difference 1 between jitftifjung this ungrner
cms traffic and supporting a claim to property, verted at the time
of the Constitution, and guaranteed thereby. Besides it would be
inhumanity itfelf to turn these Unhappy people loflfe to murder
each other, or to perilh for want of the tteceflaries of life. I ne
ver was an advocate for so extravagant a conduct. •
Many arguments were pointed against the dangei' of our emanr
cipating these Oaves, or even holding up an idea that we had
a power so to do—and much time has been taken up to disprove
this right in Congress. As no claim of this kind is contended for,
and, the resolutions already pa (Ted ex.refsly contitdift it. I thall
make no farther observations on them.
But the characters of the signers of theft memorials are called
in question, as an argument against the adoption of the rtfolutioft
on the table. One of these memorials was signed by the society
of people called Quakers ; the other by Dr. Franklin, as President
of a private society in Philadelphia. The lndifcrimiaau: abufc
that has been thrown out agamft the Quakerj without diftiuftion,
has not comported with the honor or dignity of this haute. Not
only their characters, but their very names have been called upon,
and private anecdotes relating to individuals been mentioned on
the floor. Many of the Quakers 1 have long lived in In habits
of friendfh.p with, and can teftify to the refpeftability of _ their
characters and the regularity of their lives. Their conduct in the
late war has been arraigned, and they have been condemned in
the lump. 1 have known many of them during the war, and im
partial iuftice requires it from me, to give the committee some o -
fecial information on thefubjeft; I had the honor of ferrmg the
United States at the commencement of the war, as Coi&miUary
General of Prisoners. Congress not being able to afford ihem
Cupplies, those unhappy men in this town, were reduced to the
«rv depths of distress, without food or raiment, without blan
kets or firing, they fuffered every thing that human nature could
i>ear In thfs (ituation many of the Quakers of this city, exerciU
•d such humanity towards them, as did honor to human nature.
The miserable prisoner, not only telt the happy effects of their
ixertions in his favor, but participated of their money, their food
ind cloathing. Nay,fuch were the jealoufics created by thiscon*
lust in the British army here, that an armed force entered the
louse of one of them, feited hir books, and though a man of
■reat property and large commercial drahng., on finding mat
'■ad loaned large sums of money to our distressed prisoners, he
vasturnedo.it of their lines, and with his family was ai retugee
luring the whole of the war afterwards, separated from his bel
iefs and property. . .
To whom was the care of our prisoners in Philadelphia com
nitted ? To a Quaker ; and 1 have been witness to thejutt tribute
,f gratitude and thanklulnefs paid by great numbers of our unhap
iv fellow-citizens to that gentleman, for his kindness and huma
nly And is this indiscriminate charge, without the r<ef
,eft'to characters, a decent or a just return for a conduct like
his? Where is the denomination amongst us, that didnot turnilh
.ppofers to our glorious Revolution? Were not hundreds of
•refbyterians, Episcopalians. and almost of every other denomi
iation, among our enemies ? What denominations formed the
houfands of new levies, that endeavored to deluge our country
n blood? On the other hand, were not a Greene and a Mifflin
urnifhed from the society of the Quakers ?
In (hort, I rejoice to fay that out cause was not carried on by
anaticfm or .eligiousreal, but a generous ftrugglc for the right,
,f human nature. Then why all this abuse of this particular feti,
vithoutdifcrimination ? Can any sol.d argument agamft the re
olution on the table, anfef.om a conduct of this kind.—l am at
, loss to know what other argument has been used to Ihew he
impropriety of the resolution before you. It goes to declare the
jower of Congress to prohibit foreigners from fitting ont velTels
n our pons, to supply foreigners with (laves from Africa For
Tiv part, 1 think it a prudent a humane and a conftnutional refo
ution. It will render further interference on this fubteft, per
laos unneceftary, when it is known that the power of Congress
:xtends to rem Jy the evil. They will hardly venture to nfk a
royage that may be ruiued before its being finithed.
The gentleman last up (Mr.Smith) said that ac ;
enowledfred, that one of the memorials had asked fomethin,
ontrary to the Constitution. 1 have never acknowledged this
The language is, that Congress would go to » the very verge of
he Constitution" to acomplifh the business; but there is no re
lUThe 0 ch X a C rafterof the celebrated f.gner of the last memorial(Dr.
•ranklinl has been touched upon. Theflrmnefs of his mind has
ieen fufpefted. An ingenious parable of his, has beenreadu,
i mmmittee but its application totally mistaken. If the Su
ireme Being has borne with the unhappy fubjefts of our confide
at'on,not for one hundred, but for thousand, of years in their
' nvp land has provided them with climate, foil, and fo
™mforts. m whi£ they rejoice; must we be difcomented.
nd suppose by adding to their misery, we can add to their hap-
H On the whole, fir, I have heard nothing to convince me of the
moroprteTy of the prefei.t resolution. llhalltherelorevoteagair.ft
lr Sel«al Xr ingenious fpeecheswtredelivered on the fubjeft of
I n trade •we have given the longest on each fide—thepublica
he flawe tr • ■f f 6 d ed forthe present, to. admit the inter
ftirig debates on the aftumption of the State debts which have «a.
:en place in consequence of the recommitment of that propo-
fition
TUESDAY, MARCH, 30.
The House rcfolved itfelf the whok to re
consider the proportions that had been committed,
& the state U*. wa s then read by
che chairmaa-
tii&oMr. fiumd then vofr, and fa id, he l, a d the misfortune to differ
with .ill his colleagues on so important a point as that of the ftatc
debts being assumed by the United States in its general funding
i> Item; and as that singularity might be attributed by fomc either
o cap,,cc whim, or a perverse humour, he thought it incumbent
on him to shew to the house, and to his colleagues in particular,
CO " fldert ' <! « founded upon the soundest pntuipK
both as to the general welfare of the Union, as well as to that ot
the particular state of which he had the honor to be one of the re-
I, ' 1 ' t L hat 1 t !' S to the general weal of the
non, had been doubted by some who did not know him. He
/-new that he had been denominated an ami-federalift when the
adoption of the new constitution was agitated. He then did con
. der, and at this instant did confidcr some parts of that constituti
on as dangerous to the general liberties ot his country. He wiffi
rd to fee them amended. He had since had the pleasure to fee
min part amended. He hoped in future to fee them so a
as'° I"* ob J ca,or <° f» he was an ant.-fe
ceralift. But lie assured the house thatthere was no man in Ame
rica mor e strongly attached to a firm union of the states than him
. 'or a 6°, and efficient government which consisted with the
true principles of liberty.
Among his objections to the new constitution was a dread that
fIT a ofjilcntmajonliu, on questions of great and general
firm iW had heard gentlemen in that house, some of the
™ the adoption of the new government, lament
rverhf.T f f l , , t ma J° n ' ,es w,th gt" l paihos. That how
ri ' , s ' CaS ,° binding the states together, (upon the principle
of his having been opposed to the adoption of the constitution
Without the amendments he had mentioned) might be rcd.culed,
e conceived himfelf that he was perfectly confident ; he always
, K- Uld contmue to lupport those measures
which ffiould bmd and ftrengthenthe union,lo far as was confiftem
with the constitution and the rights of a free people.
"vT a COnfldcr ,he fub J e£l before the house a. it con
cerned the ftatc from whence he came, and altho' he .ddrefied
this particularly to his colleagues, he conceived what was (aid of
A irginia would apply in part to most of the states in the un.on,
conceived, that ffiould the assumption of the state debts not
I ( u " part ,h,t mi B ht P r °P"'y be deemed con
tinental as having been incurred for the common defence during
h' ° 'ft ''l which have made the most vigorous exertions
r,IU rmb "l aircd - I" 'his predicament .t was general
-3y allowed Virginia stood. Virginia had at one t.mlin the
W, mc ' u ding infantry, cavalry and artil
lery , those were fully officered ; it was true, some of'them were
~;?h r? regiments, but they had been all fettled
witnalike. ( ro , E continued.)
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 14.
oundiy petitions were read.
of r thc committee on the accounts presented by the
printers tor newspapers supplied the house was taken up
Mr. Sherman moved that the report be accepted.
* Y obf "vcd that a free press is of the greatefl impor
e people, and all proper encouragement ought to be
g.ven : ; that the praaice of Congress in taking the nfwlpaperl
Srn r plan conduced to this objea; that the moll bene
fo^.t°on whie n h r^ U '"' d 10 ,he government from that in
the.r constituents had received thro this medium,
gentlemen have observed that persons at the feat of government
cumfl^ee'enahi" 'u' f "' y intc,l 'g™« wh 'ch that cir.
a U .Tosh V" '° 0bUl "- but " w '» «<" denicd that
t L r have as good a right to political intelligence,
m P CO " gr ,! f5 J PptnS bt :no modc °f convey!
laaliw as h "" bcdcV ' rcd «hieh,s attended with so much
lacUitv as this . and no citizen can grudge the cxpencc • it docs not
rrirr ore,h * n,he frafi,on ° f - f,rib ' n K
» l informatlon conveyed through this channel ha«
-.rtorded the greatrft fatislaftion to our condiments—it is expected
from u,, » nd ~ what th hjve a righ[ to _ and so
the anxiety orl feme occasions for news from Congress in lomeof
thl h,T 'a n e u a!l t r " Sutcs ' that 1 have b «» informed (fa.d he i
of rin 3 dollai h ? s >«» given lor a rtewfpaper. The hit fc-flion
®refrnrfr C l'' f WCre *" ade of thf P ar tiality and mifre
preientat.onsof the printers, and justly j in their accounts of the
ofheht and « 0 members wereW up in a point
I £ 3 mjufticc was done thro the inaccuracy of those
partial publications. This session matters have been beuer con
M : k bat " have been mo rc impartially handed to the
public—the printers publish on both fides, and are willine to
fromf ' T ° th " advanta ß= was t0 be derived
e " CO " ragCm . C " t - thlsfr « dom ™d impartiality bc-
W one n , Cn " m " lfication f° r the trifling ex pence
0 T , r prmt " S onl >-' Wfrc 'o b «c public encouragemem
° r ' be _f xc i ufiv<, ,Pr' n V n ß of for Congress—it would
preclude the public in all probability from that full and imp.r
W the hT.fr °" '° r X ar ° entitled ; " would l ™d to L:
and concludedlyobferving with refpeft to anyTLl'ngVoX'pu'b.'
he "~ the ' x P encc was so 'rifling compared to the advantage th.it
Mim of • a r7 COnt T pt,b ' C ob j cft of econ omy, in a national
CnnL /£ W £ "J 01 " 11 ,ore j ea theclaufe which proposed that
efptc^ 0 " 0t ' UPPlicd Wllh a, ' y P a P"® * the pub!
■wirh r a GENS °j said he hop '' d lhe rcfolut 'on would be agreed to
Me!\n r amt r W 'hr moved > by ftrlkl "g out what re
Jates to fuppWmg the Senate ; he was for leaving that nart of rhe
business tothemfelves; he gave a (ho* account"of of
tion he C faid C 'r ßPP s w " h Pyers—Under the old confedera
tion he (aid, Congress was considered as a diplomatic bodv the
members were amenable to the States who sent
could not compel their punctual attendance— hence the exnediem
of taking the papers to keep the members together fmmthetim
ofmeetmg, „ 11 they formed a house ; but he obfaved Zs did 'o,
?h l ° C 'J fe xi nt Con S refs ' whoa re a differently organized bodv
1 theintroduftion of newspapers interrupted (public buiinefV 1
"■ S-itt.
uZXrP C ) °':* r< '' J 3 vari «y of ohfervations to fliew the
f r AN ° bfervcd that he d,d not particularly rccollcft
r. 1 in Congrels taking the uewfpapeTs, but the pun6lualitv
thought neccfT.ry that Consicfa Oiould b. fupp], r d 'with' the" m'
; p :
that—-he thought that they had al£y s '%£&\ 1 !"
conceived ,t was for their intereilto be so ; it is true tCv arlTi
m<T" f r r ft a '.I* PUrP °' e l ° mch greateVextend' $
«atTved 8 ° Ut What rChtrS to lh£ was ne
"ejitived ■ agr " d to — th c latter part was
In coiii mittec of the whole on the bill to icgulate the poft-olTice
of the United States.
The committee nude conliderable progress in the difcuflion of
the bill but did not finilh it.
THURSDAY, APRIL rj.
A meflage was received froru the President of
the United-it tares, informing the house that the
ast further to suspend part of the law to regulate
the collection of the - Revenue, has received his
aflent.
The bill for tlie government of the territory,
south of the Ohio, was read the fecondtime, and
made the order of the day to-morrow.
A nve(l age was received from the Senate with
the bill for the puni/hment of certain crimes a
gainst the United States,informing the house that
they agree to some of the amendments proposed,
and disagree to others.
A motion was made by Mr. Boudinot that a
committee be appointed to originate a bill for the
mitigation of penalties and forfeitures accruing
under the Revenue Laws in certain cases therein
mentioned. Laid on the table.
Mr. Gale moved for the order ofthe day on the
report of the Secretary of the Treasury for the
iupport of the Public Credit. "1 he motion being
seconded, occasioned a debate.
Some gentlemen wi/hed the committee to be
dilcharged from further proceeding in the Re
port, till a plan of accommodation ihould be a
greedto, m refpedl tothe ail'umption of the State
r e u- tS k^ The h °" l f were w armly agitated on this
fubjecl for a considerable length of time. Several
members were called to order, and a variety of
motions refpedling order made. At length the
yeas and nays were called for, and taken, and the
queltion tor going into committee was carried.
1 he propohtion for effecling a modification of
the public debt being read, Mr. Seney moved to
itnke out the clause which rejates to the debts of
the particular States. This motion was second
ed by Mr. Parker—Mr. Sherman, Mr. Gerry
Mr. Ames, and Mr. Bland spake against the mo
tion. Mr. White and Mr. Seney in its support—
but the committee role without coming to a de
n (inn ®
FRIDAY, APRIL 16
Sundry petitions were reaa
Mr. Boudinot of the committee to whom was
referred part of the petition from the inhabitants
of the town of Portsmouth, N. H. brought in a
report which was read.
A committee, consisting of Mr. Boudinot, Mr.
Goodhue, and Mr. Huntington, was appointed to
bring in a bill for the mitigation of penalties and
forfeitures, pursuant to a motion laid on the ta
ble yesterday.
The order of the day being called for on the
report of the -Secretary of the Treasury— Mr
Fnzfimons said, he wished a suspension of the
motion while he read a proposition which he
meant to offer for the confederation of the house ;
It was 111 fubftanceas follows—viz. That a Com
mittee be appointed to devise a plan for the as
sumption of the debts, payable by the refpe<ftiv e
States—and a mode of paying the interelt there
on— also to provide for the speedy and effectual
settlement of accounts between the United States
and individual States.
vr T kr S i"!| otion J be u ng ob j e<fled to > as informal •
of the'vvhole theh ° UJe went inr ° a committee
- T *Vf 1 " otio » for striking out the clause refpecft
lng the State debts in the proposition for effecting
a new modification of the domestic debt wa s
earned in the affirmative. '
The proposition for opening a loan on the firft
Plan was then read ; when Mr. Boudinot mored
that the words, " To receive the other third in
lands in the Western Territory at the rate of 20
cents per acre," should be ftruckout- and l!
posed a substitute similar to that which he offered
in the foriner discussion of this fubie<fi — This
motion occasioned a debate which laited J 3
o clock ; and the vote the run!; 3
was negatived. The committee then rose and"
the House adjourned till Monday. I
N. B. While Mr. Sedffwiclc wac
° Ur i af )Y- Mr "r Page hiln to order a fd a Ve n
minded him of the great
on the floor of the fommitteeTnd2 H™'!" g
tion for the afluinption which he Wr tlle,lho
againft i„ pS°>* r: '""""Whw.
Mr. THE FEDE KAL GAZETTE.
T ded on the ap P ear ™ch divi
dual States for thefupfon oJth(
422
considered «s a great rational question ami .1
portance of the United States depend in , . ' and in,,
determination. B lc « measure upon its
I agree with the Secretary of the Treafurv .u
of the debts of the particular States by the'' "' he alr M>pti 0 „
sure of found policy and fubftamial ,ufti ce ' be a
. contribute in an eminent degree to an orderli ft u U w °uld
torv arrangement of the national finances » r! , and frtisiat
m a 1" 1 r it,te to 3,rert lhat public credit can B ofa "«e.,
blifced but by one uniform system of revenue thr/T 1 bc cfts -
State, ; that impartial justice cannot be done to ,u § out a " the
the creditors in any other way, but bv amm C P eo pl= and t u
ment : and in fact that if ever the national debts ind"!)' 1 arran Be
particu ar States eontrafted as aforefaid, are oairf gth " tc °*
natomaljmi constituted on the resources of the Un'innT' 1 be b y a
and directed " by one authority." 10n drawn forti,
When it is said the alfumption will augment tk, j L ,■
that it cannot be paid, it is evidently meant that the /k' a mucll
mam with the States and fame of them not j bls fl l * l 're-
dely an aggregate of the funds wodld „t lead k " all > for
less efficient than so many separate ones • henc it C Wea^cr or
quellion involved in this bulinels is, fha'll the crJ^'V 11 " 01 *
States receive payment of the debts due to them dcbt °r
another is, (hall the general government exercTfe "th," 0 ' ? And
drawing forth the resources of the union for l pnw " of
(hall it be impeded in doing its duty bv Slates or
"us interests drawing dUfcreA way! L""#?*.
that a liquidation ftiall take place, of the accounts hi Pr ° P ° fcd
union and the individual States ; " the fettlemenr. u " the
" fupenntendance of commissioners, veiled with , be L ?" d « the
'• ..on, and final authority " And that
creditor States " 'hall be provided for by the U n ,.1,1 c e
a reasonable interest, but not to be transferable" "
At whatever period the company accounts may be fart,,. l
will be balances due to and from the different St».» 'i e
meafurecomendedforis perhaps the only possible mnT.i, the
deviled, by winch the creditor States will be re.mh?, f J be
advances-And it is the best mean that can be fallen ™ ' heir
ue the burthens ol the States ; for the longer the aa£
open and the States go on in the way they have 1. remain
the greater will be the inequalities * V ° nC h "«°fore,
We (hould judge of this proposition upon true ,
pies, and extend our inquiries beyond the limit, T ? , pr ' nc '-
and throughout the union, order to fe w£'h Sta,e
isthe molflike.yto dojuftice, and to efabiShtSto SS.2
the States are in a situation to pay their debts, but there are mK
who have not the means (race the surrender of thefr fund?^
ting they were ever so well disposed ; and in such cafe. I ! :
that the creditors have unqueltionably a iuft claim on th COn ! cn4
because all the debts the erX oh m 0 ":
as well as of the individual States fro n th- „1 . si. thcum °a
of the members was known to the whole'°''M P " Ch
alk .fCongiefs can eftablift c«d,t
debts, for which the union is bound, unprovided for?
But it will be said -that the credit-.. s must comDe 1 their Ct
pay them; and if this cann it be done that f„„, r I
pel them, not only to pay their creditors, but to pav
quifitions. Tne hrft is out of the question the rrZl'J? rC "
make use of conipulfory measure., and as U the litter 7 """"
ly answer that I have heard ol but one method „,„lu C u" ° n "
that the general government Ihould levy taxes
St V"= a . n t th,i 1 b =!'«c Will never be'putm pX c dCl ' n<!UeDt
If the debts are well funded, it can surely make no dff
to the creditors; and the argument that some ofthe
under contrails with their citizens to receive said debt, !!!
for land, and confifcated estates, must cease t b iT'
when it is considered that it will be in th- r objection,
states to pass laws for recewmg the fundedTbV °J P
States in lieu of the former, in discharge of all such
And for so much of the continental debt as
.his way (he will have a cl aim upon the B
1 Wilh to fee the whole of th e na,,oval debt funded on h, f
terms and but one fperies of certificates in iJ th , V
Why (hould different part, of a d'bt hatTs all 11 '"
equally p„d f Which P w,II be thcafc ,sb D Y J U « bCU ""
to be provided for by the several Sra.« . "li f q " cftl0 ° art
but to be commensurate to its object. fy " g
}R ™ E gazette of the united states.
MR. FJENNO,
A r S h^W° f p ge " tlemen ' anXious tO P
palob! eft "of p " Z?* 1110111(1 be the >'™-
Feveral T Pi" b ° ,net ™ this city
leveral months ago, and continue in it yet/fitey
conic from different • mfi «-u • • •
:,;. n „ AmtA r , orates , and their intention
on n,rh P ? f PUbllfll ' fr ° m tinle co
fuchf L? J t , SaS ln3^be '"terefting, baton
Ah onah l'- y3B 111311 be of "ational concern.
pea edft N° g fcciety ta. ap
nianv thjr th Ne ""P a Myet as it is known to
and wSftJ, 7 av f 'net, — when they met,-
that thevh ct or; anc * feme may suppose
thlnklJ - VC nothing all this time, I
world 1 ITr ° f J - Uftice to the that the
world should be intormed they have n^beeni
and s, 7 ,neeC re S ularI y every day, Saturdays
nefsrfnr .r « cc P" d — Their hours of busi
ness [for they have stated hours] arefullr em
fii th ? Public may be gratified ere long,
Tcnowlrd ° °P' 1 "SP Ü blications, which, from my
!n ° ; e j« e °f che genius and erudition of the
SH ™ h ° c °n'Pofe the lociety, lam per
suaded will be masterly performances; viz. ?
ill ivh, t 071 tr 'fl"'g> in Folio, shewing
diflimt r n T lf>Ur h° ul "s of every day may be
I dlfl) P ated » the greatelt advantage :_the motto
. . a' re " nt ktrte, et imputantur.
craftSn,? - Y ° n Procra JH»<"ion -, in which Pro-
Stoup P rove^to he the true Philosopher's
bv rhp. , r ' C f . turns things into gold, and that
e'ifilv f° 11 a .( ortune may be acquired more
- I ri! ex P ed «io"fly than in any other way.—
Irh -ru terrors of election. A Poem.—
ri . ' le art °f milking the Ram:—an elabo
nfH. r 1 ? r i n . ance ' tending to shew the falfehood
the old scholastic adage, "Ex nihilo nihil fit."—
.V Dutch Pensionary's rule of doing
I I\ K r* 3 c ' nie > or not beginning; a second
whirl o, U c^s be f° r e the firft was fini/hed;in
ablurd" ' natle a PP a rent that the rule is a very
«.«* J*.? t abov . e are P art of the refuk of the so
y abors ; but it is said that a number of pam:
Hi. .o'.»d nr..
P»n itj
j>lets have been Written by individual mertibcrs
in theirleifure hours ; such as, a Dialogue between
Daniel Dogmatical and Peter Positive, designed
to elucidate this position, that plump aflertions
are the belt evidence of the truth of faCb :
"Ptioo
"ilea,
'oul^
t'stat*
A critical investigation of the true meaning of
several Englift words, in which it is effedually
proved that we annex very wrong ideas tomany
ofthem ; ■ and several others.
"the,
Clti.
11 ll, e
'"d Lo
'dlgt.
""It oi
35 >>* 1
,Q f oiiu
This Society bids fair to be very ufeful and
will doubtlel's meet with liberal encouragement
when they publifli proposals for printing their
works ; in the mean time as their correspondence
inuft be both extensive and expensive, I think it
would be well if they could have the privilege
offranking -their letters. DEMOCRITUS.
re.
a »> f«
:a *cr or
""'We
«ebto r
!? And
>wer o{
Method of recovering the -writing upon parchment
decayed by time, and of making it legible Dip the
parchment obliterated by time into a vefle] 0 f
cold water, freih drawn from the well ; in about
a minute take it out, and prefc it between two
papers, to prevent its crumpling up in drying
As soon as .t is moderately dry, i?i t be not leg?-'
ble, repeat the operation two or three dints.
The fkm will then refumeits pristine colour and
appear all alike.
Extract of a Letter from Naples Dec 20
" A very extraordinary circumitance happen
ed a few days ago. For some time pall the road
between Capo d. Monte and Minao, a few miles
Pittance from this capital, had been infected by
a robber who had always found means to elude
all pursuit. A merchant who had been well ac
quainted with him, having bufinefg at Miano, set
" P l ? ee l earl y in morning, taking
with him m his cliaife his Corfican dog, which
fhYSdAr" h,SgrCat COatt ° kee P him
the cold At a narrow part of the road he was
Hopped by the robber. The merchant at firft re
to'ne'rf* ° ld acc 9 uain tance, hoped
to persuade him to be fatisfied with a present
but he answered that heknew nobody, and that
if the merchant wi/hed to save his life, he must
give every thing valuable he Ld about him
ie merchant pretending to comply, waked his
fe°t S him on wa * fl «l»ing between his feet, and
the intrepid animal seized him by
Leans t o b S eW h °" the g r °«nd, and found
ninl JJ ? attempts he made with his
J the a " ger nd himfe l f of his aflailant.
fneed in Ift tl,ne I the I lnerchant drove at full
peed, and (lopped at the firft inn. Shortly after
his dog scratched and barked at the door, and
'J! adm'flion leaped about his master with the
gieatcft sig ns Q 1 joy, although the blood was
ftrcainiiig ti 0111 the leveral wounds he had recei
ved. When the dav broke, the robber was
found dead on the road."
Camomile. ( ///y/
/ A medical correspondent at Madrid, has ac
fceffertf fTd L" 'r' and with r °»' e aftonifli
g fleets of the herb Camomile in certain in -
flainatory disorders ofthe eye, when every other
uAia,, >'P rercribc <l, had proved abortive
an,ong<l wherein the
f aS . becn concei 'ned, are mentioned a>
?nm i. ! V ' rtUeS ° f this f alutarv, though
common herb. Maria de Maros, daughter to%
master carpenter, had, for many yearsf been as.
Ik ed with weeping eyes, which discharged a,
tmUofs°o U s J" mour ' that bro »ght on an almof
tal loss of light. Alteratives were prefcribee
to no purpose, nor couldacourle of mercury pro
IS alleviation. At length heS
cow's ,f^ coiti on of Camomile, boiled in fwec
'VcsVeveril f- UUh j' th<? P acient bathed he
' "»es a day, as warm as could be fnf
unealinel's, and in about five week
Her were prefetftly cured.
T . . January 30.
p ran re IS f?' a , C rea^on to expert a revolution ii
than L'k r l !' and perhaps more decisive
lately beer/f W " ch the o' flem of Go vernment ha;
try k i' P 'hanged in that com,
are in " 't0 the Ro y al Party in France
SutioT fl* a " d U,S fuf P e «ed that the late re
the Sv k Nat, ? nal Aflembly, in regard tc
frr, , , rs ' has entirely alienated the military
w«M -;, nt . erCl „ ° f that bos] 3'. and therefore th<
for In t" 'in t P ro bi'ity, have frelh occafioi
CamTTOi|hbourj W ° n ""* <"•'
H", or
'yfttmi,
ro pofti
e « the
iderthe
d'fcnt.
' due to
e «, "it
there
and the
tcan be
or their
3 equal,
remain
:toforc B
ites to
cora
ir re-
annot
in on-
iat it,
qucnt
:rence
s are
'mcnt
>f the
nited
ifnts.
ve in
fame
ateg.
•un
i are
>e a
' no
ition
ient,
■n
*
*r
he
\V INDSOR, (V ermont) February 2.
Ikji ?Cntleraan from Amherft, (New-Hamn
a that in the night ofrtfe
oarnq K I , • tninded persons set lire to two
wliirh elon S ,n g to a n Attorney in that town, in
'v trnC j t y ' g rain . &c - which were whoi
y plumed by the flames-four cows perilhed
■avtb,. C " 10ng the ru,ns were found small
i '«PPofeH P ?i!' " ntainin g coalg . by which, it is
An vT' was cornn, unicated.
the npvf Atto . rne y the fame town) found
door a 1 n,ornin ?> . Cl . t0 the knocker of his
'dvfce—<< rt D r conta ' n ' n g the following laconic
reAiurv u- n tf° A nota betia di
t;eH S n ,,' m to " ''""k A»»."-On carting his
■e ground he beheld a faggot of pine
LONDON, January 24.
ysj ±~*' /* a r
n , , ~ AT THE SECOND SESSION
Begun and held at the City of New-York nn k/f A l
"Id «"A t „ h X''° fpe "l P> " 0f »" ° a >
.he Du,i« tap„S^; n h t,,f^ lOn °f
chand"™' 15 ' and °"
U °'" d
l imporcd'by u'w'oil"thf nl!"pi "'/<
wares and merchandizes, .mp or :ed mto thelWa' e" g S>
obliges {hips or vefTels, bound up the river Po.ow Statcs > «
to, and deposit manifefti of their cargoes with the"lwti' 'T
hundred md ninety-one. '* "" °" e
•ng places m Vl'^'orfnd Ea^Wfor^n'"(he'sT«e' r"* 1 "
Sfe-^£ P ° r ' b ° f dCi ' V " y ' a ° d bC ' ndud « l -^dt
FREDERICK AUGUSTUS MUHLENBERG
jo„„ Ufaowj/jsst
a - and Prejidcnt of the Senate.
(Tit Copy GTON *President States.
THOMAS JEFFERSON, Secretary ofStctc.
A correspondent observes—A debtisfaid to be
a bond of union ; with that and every other aid
t wnhom the aflumption, the present debt is a
a principle of disunion—it divides the holders of
S m .\.. lons °f State debt from the holders of
43 millions of national debt ; will a house divid
ed againlt ltfelf stand ?
wKl r f COrrefpo,ldcnt fays—all good men
fe th l government ; all discerning men
fee that no government can be strong or peace
ably adamiffered if it is divided against £fdf.
ble if H- e P° wers of government the most incapa
| ble of divjfion ,s the exercise of taxation. The
national government is a singular experiment in
P ° We , rS extend . on] y to certain ob
k hope this experiment will s UC ceed •
utiftlie exercise of the powers actually vetted
in Congress is given up, especially as to revenue,
Z * IT W f to ■' The government was
p aceably adopted ; is it ordained that we fliall
iufter as much as other nations have done to ef
fect a a revolution ?
£x frS °f«'?" er f>- 0 \ BoJ}o, l , April 8, I 79 0.
c cr •I Con g ref » Will not finiih the
, lemon without some decided measures relative to
the national debts. If they do any thing, they
rauft do every thing that we can desire. lam per
iuaded Congress are not so ignorant of the cir
cumlrances of the United States as to imagine a
partial fyltem of finance is practicable. Unless the
State debts are afliimed, no funding system will
operate prosperously ; and without a prosperous
lunding iylteni our national government will be
but a shadow. In short I dare not predid; the
consequences of having the public debts long ne e .
lecled, orpartiaJly provided for.
" The creditors ofthe United States, and of the
several States, have not yet loft their patience, or
their confidence. I hope they never will lofe'ei
| ther ; but I iinagineif nothing is done for their
relief within a few weeks, they will unite in some
measures to express their fentimenrs to Cono-refs
in very unequivocal, but refpetftful language.
" Perhaps a Convention of Delegates from the
public creditors to meet at New York or Phila
delphia, colud make foine representations to
Congress that would facilitate their determina
tions.
" Theoppofers of a funding system ; andinthis
light I view allanti-afl'umptionifts, not sensi
ble how large a number of refpe<ftable men ae
holders of the public debt.
" The friends of good government—the friends
-*'*• <V"
"v>»-
c I- L
fplmters, pitched at the enrk /
v>orid toguefs W l! ><
of an the £ ffice ' P a P«-s, Sec.
rachufetts W a 7b^ nt °"S to (Maf
-sth uh._ "' i"i? r s ' '\ tbe ni § ht oi '^
ra £ e '» licentious lr„firfMaV*"'
■' A rn ™ NGT ° N > March m:
obfert^Ta?&S y M W - Y r h k '
commiflioners on the part of New i°,
commodation will take nL™ £• i xt > an ac *
■•««» Vork and ple alin | %***■ Wab.c
-ay forln" e"rrrX*>.°Vd V P JT™ ' he
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES
NEW-YORK, APRIL 17.
423
t' V du«d Ba,tle A M BUnk "' S thC ' ollou ' ,n S Portraits arc intro
> American. British
Major General Warren, Genera! Sir If,ll,am Howe,
Putnam, Sir Henry Vinton,
Lieut, Col. John Small»
Major Pitcairn y and
t Lieut, Pitcarrn.
In the Attack of are feety
General Montgomery, Major Macpherfon,
Colonel Thompson, Captain Chief man.
Tut D 9 ONI) ITIONS of SUBSCRIPTION
urote Th.'n" ~ l en S rtvt t d b "»> of the mnjl eminent Art i lis in
.urofe /he flu be 3 o inches h 20. The to fuhfcr<b'r<
hertZZTZuh jT'' time
Z' J u' **"* W/ be ">» " A*
«lr i. "'ready considerably advanced) can boftbh be comtktni
Subfcr.pt, ons are received ,n America, only by Mr Trumbull AIL
fan " n k."dby him, a's well as by Mr Pol!',, %
'jhtd"" " " '" a >on the prints are engraving, and "willbepub
rJt H t£L7'\ ire . ""W °S<> J"'", « zohich it is proposed to rehre-
No t, ' IV""" "f' h!
we hat 'Zed than that in which
'ions of thatfZT m cmory offcenes ,n which were laid the founda.
'lafrfii/efs m{/l T?Z e , r,m " j wl " c/ 'f ecur " °" r national and individual
J& ZiaZlTh, J '° ■ «»* '/ national
Irm„, ~1 fable, Americans have a right to glory in having
™ T rV&VertiZ ng "" m ' mOTy °/ the «'<»" W
The Cub,,/}, alfr l f°"Pen/' l ' l a fork should be continued.
'■ s™sa ,mK » Hc '.
* BATTLE of PRINCETON',
of General BURGOYNE,
TREATY with FRANCE,
BATTLE cj EUTAW SPRINGS,
SURRENDER of YORK-TOWN
TREATY of PEACE, '
EVACUATION of NEW-YORK
G "" ral WASHINGTON,
the ARCH at TRENTON)
STATES NAUGURATION ' /M ' P « ESI DENT of the UNITED
'jjere •*'
<iderabh■ advanced—and ,tJ.r /' mari < da >'"' Stars, are am.
fine file,
New-York, April 2, iyqo. "
Nn T T r. • , ADVERT^FMKKT.
n ltE ,s he,eb )' g ,V( *n to a!) the creditors of Philir
day of M ay t
be g Tu nt , r J' 1 " fald infolv "» debtors estate (honld not
tur.nf M 8 , e r d,fch r ged acro ' d '«« to the ast of the Legtfla
ture of New-Jerfev in such cafe made and provided.
PHILIP DENMAN.
Nfwari, April 14, , 7go .
Q ASH, and a generous price given for Conti-
°ir n " t T'-rr
a part 10 dero S ator y to his former
terefts of hr < re P u gnant to the important in
rv ff rear ' I CoUnn ' y - 1 , once thou S hl *>»» * ve
aLfn whnK- Very g ,°° (l ,uau> 1 wi,] think To
fSd h,S cond »<* « 1,10, 'e open, public
pirited and accommodating. For the urefenr
I suspend my opinion 0 f him " P reJ enr,
r f ° re the Su P' e '»- Circuit
and V a Jr. W * StatCS ' Brown
'ro J/ft? , Ho I PKINS were tried for a conspiracy
the cal, , r, r g Morni »fe S tar, and to munlel
the Captain and John Lewis Lonev, a uaflen
fe C d °h f f^' d b " g ' Afcer a trial which
° Ur J lO T' thCy Werefoi '" d and
ntenced rostand one hour on the pillorv be
unpriforied for fix months, and publicly whipped
previous to their discharge. 7 whipped
rJd™ U o m cU.' h G '"£' **».'« UJI-'fj u rocks ,
ARhiv ALi, UEW-YORK.
_A * I
Shtp Ariel, Hunter, Hull, 53 days.
Bng Mary, Blagdon, New-Castle (Kng)and.
BrS i- P> Townfend ' Br.ftol, 52 day's.
Br,g Polly, Frears, Savanna le Mar 24 days.
8r, 6 ™ggy. Robinson, Bristol, 5 \ davs.
S °op Signet, Sliipman, St. Martins.
"> Brown, Gaudaloupe, 20 days
Snow Harmony, Fell, , , v rr Poo l. t0 Ll, Y
PROPOSALS,
JOHN T R*U M B U L L
or publishing by subscription.
TWO PRINTS,
From ORIGINAL PICTURES painted by himfclf:
The DEATH of General WARREN
XI, nr a -r!! he Battle °f Bunker's-Hill; and '
i ae DEATH of General MONTGOMERY,
In the Attack of Quebec.The following Address viJJ frefented to the Present
oj theUr.ited States, on Thursday lafi ,hy a depu
tation of the society oj Free-Quakers from 1 hila
delphia.
To GEORGE WASHINGTON, President of the
United States.
The Address of the Religious Society of Free-Qiia
kers.
\\JE beg leave to join the general voice in the
VV mod refpeftful congratulation 011 thy ap
pointxneiit to the highest oißce, and inoft extend
ed trust \vhic.h can be confided by a free people ;
a trust which the force of precedent in the firft
exercise of the supreme executive authority, at
the founding of such an empire, renders infinite
ly important, not to its immediate citizens only,
but to every part of mankind, who have an in
terest in the firm establishment of religious and
civil liberty.
We offer no apology for the time of this ad
dress, as decency required, that theyoungeft re
ligious society in the empire, should give place
to those that are more numerous and of far more
ancient establishment; yet fpringingup with and
growing out of the revolution, it is our duty on
this great occasion to appear among our fellow
citizens ; and we feel a dignity in declaring, that
■we have reason to believe there is not a member
of our religious society who has not at all times
and on all occasions, relied 011 and confided in
thy patriotiftn, prudence, and virtue.
Many of our members having been educated
Quakers, admitted the do<ftrine declared by that
people, of a state attainable here, in which a chri
ltian cannot be concerned in wars and fightings
of any kind ; yet, th«y perceived the wisdom and
soundness of the diftinftion, made by the apolo
gist of that people, when he expressly declares,
that until men attain that state they " cannot be
undefending themselves." They indeed saw, that
by availing themselves of the profeffion held out
by that society, they might have palled uncen
fured by the world; but being; accountable to
GodNfor their condudl as individuals, they dare
not in a cafe of luch boundlefsconfequence, reft
themselves on the profeffion of any body of men
whatever.
They saw, that in discharging the great duty
they were called upon to perform, infupport of
their own civil rights and that of our country
and posterity, they would probably be disowned
bv that people ; and there was no means of re
taining or recovering their rights among them ;
but by neglecting that duty or by publicly con
demning their conducft in the difcliaree of ic; a
treachery to the cause of liberty and truth of
which they feel themselves utterly incapable.
They were not unaware of the alienation of
friendfhip, and many other injurious effetfs on
temporal affairs, which too commonly attend of
fence given by individuals, to a body so numer
ous as the Quakers are, and of such weight in
civil society ; but in the course of Divine Provi
dence, they were called to make so great a facri.
sice and they obeyed.
They perceived the advantage of religious foci
ciety, and being desirous of obtaining it, united
together in such a body. They had felt the evil
of undue restraint on the consciences of men,and
determined, if pollible, to leave their members
free : They therefore founded our society on the
enlarged and Catholic principles of the gospel,
appealing to the leflonsof wisdom and virtue left
us by Christ and his apoflles, as the best exter
nal rule of faith and practice, and leaving every
man to answer to God, to his own conscience,
and to the government for his conduct. And be
ing formed on this ground, weafk no extraordi
nary or special privilege ; but having discharged
a common duty, ;rnd being determined to pay a
due obedience to the laws, we claim the common
protection of that government.
Far from repining at our Sufferings, we have
rejoiced in the triumph of liberty overjdefpotifm ;
and exulted in the praise which our fellow-citi
zens havebeftowed on themeafures which led to
success ; they are jultly styled glorious ; but it is
that undeviating steadiness of mind, and invaria
ble regard to the rights of the people, that have
so honorably distinguished thy concJu<fl on such
varied and trying occasions, which lead us to a
'full confidence that thy adminiftiation will, in
deed, tend to make liberty more secure than it
ever before has been ; and we feel, that it is this
confidence which gives the unusual glow to con
gratulation from every quarter, on this happy
occasion.
The profpedl of a union which will embrace
all who contended for the cauie of freedom, is
highly plealing to us ; and we beg leave to add
our most cordial congratulation on the high ho
nors which have been so deservedly bellowed by
the nation of France on thy illustrious pupil the
Marquis la Fayette : We trust, that it will be a
brilliant and lasting honor ro Ameiica that her
conduct has inspired the world with the most no
ble emulation in support of liberty and the com
mon cause of mankind.
May that Supreme Being which rules in Hea
ven and among men, continue to pour his wildom
into thy heart, and Co guide thy administration
as to make the government a bl effing td the peo-
pie, and render it free, efficient andftaMe. And
to whatever length of days he shall please to ex
tend thy life to a purpole so eminently impor
tant, may thine eye never become dim nor thy
natural force abate. And finally, when the great
talk shall be fully compleated, and thou flialt ad
vance into that Hate which is the end and highest
glory of our being, may thine inheritance be a
-111 ong the fpiritsof just men made perfect."
Signed in and by order of our meeting for bu-1
finefs, held at Philadelphia on the fourth day of
the third month, i 790, by T\. MA TL ACK, Clerk.
THE ANSWER.
To the Members of the Religious Society of Free- Qtia
kefs.
Gentlemen,
I desire to afl'ure you of the sensibility with
which I receive your congratulations 011 my ap
pointment to the highest office and most extend
ed trust which can be confided by a tree people ;
and I thank you with sincerity for the obliging
terms in which you express yourfiplvcs in my be
half.
Ever happy in being favored with the approba
tion of my fellow citizens, the time at which
yours is declared does not diininifh my sense of
the obligation it confers.
Having always considered the confcieutious
scruples of religious belief as retting entirely
with the fedis that profefs, or the individuals
who entertain them, I cannot consistent with this
uniform sentiment otherwise notice the circuin
ltances referred to in your address, than by ad
ding the tribute of my acknowledgment to that
of our country, for thofel'ervices which the mem
bers of your particular community rendered to J
the common cause in the course ot our revoluti
on ; and by alluring you that as our prefeut go
vernment was instituted with an express view to
general happiness, it will be my earnest endea
vor, in discharging the duties confided to me
with faithful impartiality, to realize the hope of
common protection, which you expect from the
measures of that government.
Imprefled with gratitude for your Applicati
ons to the Supreme Being in my favor, 1 entreat
his gracious beneficence in your behalf.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
LONDON.
A TRIP TO GRETNA GREEN.
On Monday last Miss P , ofT 11, in
Yorkshire, a young lady of exquisite beauty and
sensibility, with a fortune of thirty thousand
pounds, eloped to Gretna Green with Mr. C, li
nen draper of D , in the fame county, a
gentleman, allowed by all statuaries, who have
had the pleasure of feeinghim, to be the best pro
portioned and fiiielt figure of a man in the king- I
dom, being upwards of fix feet high, and of the
exadteft fyminetry.
There is a very remarkable circumstance at
tending the marriage :
Mr. C was to have been united to Miss G—,
of Wakefield, and Miss P to Mr. G—, brother
to Miss G—, the fame day being appointed for
both weddings ; but, what is melancholy to re
late, Mr. and Miss G— both died a few days pre
vious to the time fixed for their foleinnization.
It was at the funeral of their refpediive Lovers
that this present couple firft met ; there being a
fitnilarity in their cases, a fymphathizing attach
ment immediately took,place, and they were mar
ried within the month.
FKOM THE MORNING CHRONICLE.
DERBY, Feb. 3.
At Burton fair yesterday morning a young wo
man of the parilh of Sadlincote, whole liulband
fonietime since ablconded, and who, on that ac-
count has been chargeable to the parilh, was pub
licly fold in the market place, by the Sadlincote
parilh officer, to a man of the parilh of Grealley,
for the fuin of2s, deducting the price of the hal
ter in which the woman was delivered, in the u
sual way which has been lately pra&ifed. After
entering the tranfaftion in the toll book, the par
ties returned home seemingly fatisfied. What
are the magiltrates that fufter such practices !
It is llightly,and with great caution whispered,
in very high life, that a willi has been intimated
that a few young ladies of the inoft eminent rank
Ihould marry into the principal families of the
Englilh nobility. Such a measure can only be
accomplished by authority of an a<fl of Parlia
ment, and the attempt would, undoubtedly, pro
duce much political disputation. But it is indeed
to be regretted, that so many beautiful and amia
ble females, like flowers within light and out of
reach, poflefs virtues in vain, and
" Waftc their sweetness on the desert air."
We hear from Bury, that the Rev. H. Dannett
has inoculated gratis upwards or 1300 poor chil
dren in that town and neighbourhood. It is re
markable,that not one out ot so great a number un
der his care, have fallen a facrifice to that loath
some disease. 1 his circumstance ought to recom
mend the praiftice of inoculation to the general
attention of the poor, who have the happiness to
live within the circuit of this gentleman's bene
volence and humanity, and whom, at no small
fhai e of fatigue and expence, he has long invited
424
o partake of its beneficial effects without any
other reward, than the felf conl'ciouftiefsof down
good, and abating the virulence of a disorder io
universally incident to the human frame.
INDICATION OF A HARD WINTER.
PRevioufty to the fettingin of a severe winter,
nature,in her bounty,has been al wa\ s observed
to have provided an uncommon store of wildlniar
fruits, as a nauriftiment to the smaller birds, who
would otherwise perifli, a vail carpet of (now
spreading itfelf over the ground, lb as to prevent
their coming at the worms, &c. on which they
are accustomed to feed.
Stats of New-York, In Sena te, April 6
RESOLVED, (if the hon. AJfemHy concw herein) that this 1c,,/t d .
ture highly approve of the laudable exertion tf Mejrs Hod«
Allen and Campbell, BookftUers in New-York, to pr emote I Jit mdu 'iry
and manufaHures of America, by printing a correct and neat tiumtf
Dr. John Brown's FOUO FAMILY IiIBLE, illujlratei mthjhort
notes and annotations, so cautioujly exprcjfed as not to give i fence te any
denomination if chrfltans, and hope they may meet with JiiJjKtint en
couragement to complete their undertaking, whereby the public may bef u p.
plied with this edition much cheaper than can le imported.
Ordered, That Mr. Livingjloii and Mr Micheau deliver a copy ijthe
preceding refolijion to (hehon. the AJJembly, and, requejl 'W <M<ur
rence.. By order, (Signed) A. £. BANCKER,CIerk.
State of New-York, In AJftmbly, April 6th, 1700.
Refolvcd, That this house da concur uitn the hon. the Senate mfa
said rejolttion.
Ordered, That Mr. John Living/lor, and Mr. Carman deliver a cipy
of the preceding resolution of concurrence to the hon. the Senate
A Copy (Signed) JOHN M'KESSON, Clerk.
THE fubferibers having received the countenance of tke Lepjhttre
I of this State, as well as encouragement f ran the principal Cftrjnvii m<f
neads of the different departments of government, in the prijtcutiqn as
Brown's Folio Family Bible, solicit the patronage and fupfort «f their
fellow-citizens throughout the United Stales; and big leave to ajfurt then
that the work will be performed in such a manner as will give tkeutmjl
fatisfaSion to fubferibers and te an honor to the rljlr.g mintjuthrt: rf
America.
This Bible is regarded by competent judges of various denommtins,
as well calculated for the purpose of furni/iing a complete repo/itory if
gojpel information, and that its only abject is the promulgation of ckrif.
tian knowledge. Those who propose to become encounters ti the owj,
are earnestly requejted to be expeditious in coming forward, mm ac
curate lifl of their names will be printed with the Jirjl number. Thtfirjl
number will appear early in June, and the greatejl regard paid miim.
ing thefwcceeitng numbers pulhjhed regularly every ftrtmfbt iccsriinr
to their prcpofals. ROBERTHODt.L,
THOMAS ALLIU,
SAMUEL CAantLL.
PRICE CURRENT.
APRIL 17. Dollars at &
JAMAICA Spirits, &f 3. Do. 22 inch do. 11. 6/
Antigua Ram, 4_/y. tf §J. l)o. 18. inch do. 18/
St. Croix, do. 4/4. iiutt white oak ftavts, 35/
Country, do. 3/. Pipe do. do. 91.
Molasses, if Hogshead do. do. 61.10/.
Brandy, 6/6 a 6/3. Do. do. heading, 81.
Geneva, 5/ Irish barrel do. staves, 35;
Do. in cases, 28f Hogshead red oak do. 5I 5
Muscovado Sugar, 80s. a 72f. Do. French do. 5^
Loaf, do. t/j. Hogshead hoops,
Lump, do. 1/1 J. Whiteoak square timber
Pepper, 3 f.3 per square foot, V
Pimento, if. a 1/4. Red wood, per ton, 201.
Coffee, 1/3. Fuftick, 101.
Indigo, (Carolina) 3f a 6f. Heaver, per lb. 12J. di J
Do. French, 18/ Otter per kin, 9/. 31/
Rice, 23*. Greyfox, 4/7-
Superfine Flour, 64f. Martin, 4 /jo.
Common do. 58 f Racoon, 3J6 a yo-
Rye do. 26fa 28f Mulkrat, iod. & 140*
Indian Meal, 18/! 20/ I Beaver hats, 64J-
Rye, 4J9. pr. bujk. Caftr>r do. 48/
Wheat, 11f a 12J. Chocolate, 14a.
Corn, (Southern) 4f Coco®, 7°f a
Do. (Northern,) 4/6 a Cotton, 1/9.
3eef, firft quality, 45/ a 48/ Tar, pr. bar. 10/
?ork, firft quality, 70/? a 75/ Pitch, 14J.
Oat s, 1/7. Turpentine,
•lax.feecf, 5/ Tobacco, Jiraes River,,4*'3i<-
thip bread per cwt. 21 £ Do. York, 4" d3s •
Country refined > -1 Do- Rappahanock, 2 J
bar-iron, \ aßl ' a 3 Do. Maryland,coloured, 5j 4 -
>o. bloomery, 251. a 261. Do. Weftern-lhore, s« a 3! •
Swedes do. 451. " Lead in pigs, pr cwt. UJ
luflia do. 301. Do. bars, 68f.
81 1 of. a 9I- Shot, 6Hf.
German steel, lb. Red lead, 68[.
Vails American, bv cam. ?,. j W lute do. dry, 95/- ,
per. lb. 4 d. S White do. moil, Sj-">
)o. do. do. 6d. 12d Salt-petre hams, :t'-
50. do. do. Bd. 9\d. Spermaceti candles, 3J
")o. do. do. rod. I Mould do. ul ' '/•
Jo. do. do- isd.f .j.oij Tallow dipt, pi".
50. do. do. 20d.C 7^ Soap, s d. aU
>0. do. do, 2 4 d.) Castile soap, gd. !.«'»•
'ot alb, per ton, 391. a 40!. Englilh cheese, pr- »• ""
'earl alh, 481 a 501. Country do. id.
Sets-wax per lb. if. Butter, 1 od.
ilackatel per barr. sfif. " 3°f- Hyson tea, 016. <* '1'
ierrings, 18/ Sequin do. 6/6.
•lahogany, Jamaica, ) 1 Bohea do.
per so«; J I lCd - oinfeng, 4 «
)ommico, do. Starch Poland, ,
ionduras, do. 7d. Snutf, 2/3. *
-ogwood unchipped,pr.ton. 81. Allum fait, a !* r mc rli
)o. chipped. 141. sure, pr. buih. >
-inch white oak ? , /■ Liverpool do. y
plank, per m. \ ,oL l °J' Madeira wine, | 6 ,/. j
inch do. 51. P r - '
inch white pine plank, 81. P° rt » 4°'- r
J inch do. 61. iof Lisbon, pr. gal. sJ
inch do. 31. %of. Tenerin, 4J.
inch pitch pine do. 101. Fyall, 3/3. , rnrC wt. 8
i inch do. 6l.»o/ Dutch gun-powder, p • &
inch do. 4 1. J Nail rods, p r - t0 ', .L
l itch pine scantling, 31. Bf. Lintfeed 01 , pr*B® cof-ifi
Cyprus 2 feet fhinglcs, il. 1 of. Whale do. pr. »
)o. 22 inch do. il. B\f. Spermaceti 0,
■cdar 2 inch do. il. 10f Shake-down —
James F. Sebor, and. Co-^^
lave removed from No. 59, to No. 187, \^ ct
Fly-Market, # n f PUBLIC
VHERE they negociate all kinds or J
SECURITIES—BILLS OF EXCHANGE t f.
h'eiC'Ycrk, Apriljl, 1790.
. NtH'-YORK,