i
[No. CIV.]
#3" For TABLET, No. 104 y fee third page of this paper.
THE WORCESTER SPECULATOR.
I WAS engaged the other day, a few hours, in conversation with
a neighbour—He is an hone ft husbandman, and leads a peace
ful life in the cultivation of his farm, and in the care of a family.
—•' I wi(h," fays he, " I was better acquainted with the real situa
tion of my country —-whether we (hall probably be a happy, or
an unhappy people —whether we (hall be cruthed by taxes.—Al
though," continued he, " my attentidn has ever been alive to
public measures, and my wilhesengaged for the prosperity of my
country, my present tears were awakened by the complaints of
others—and what, too, increased them, was their coming, not from
my own class, men who work hard for their living, but from men
who, one would luppofe, would hardly notice the greatest publick
calamity ; those who appear to lead merry lives, and pass the grea
test part of their time with jolly companions at taverns ; If fach
men have cause to murmur, what will become of the poor farmer*
I cannot, Iconfefs, clfcarly fee grounds for their complaints ; my
ignorance perhaps, is the reason. Though a man of little observa
tion, I have a grateful heart ; and have often acknowledged the
enjoyment of many supposed public bleflings : W« live in a coun
try, from the nature of the government, justly called the land of
freedom ; learning and virtue are every where promoted, and jus
tice unerringly administered ; the climate is favorable, and the
foil good ; For my part I have found no difficulty in supplying,
from my farm, the demands of a large family, and paying my tax
es ; which, though sometimes large, have never been oppreflive :
But how long," added he, looking seriously at me, " this will be
my cafe, how long before calls for the payment of our debts, will
deprive me of such ability, I cannot tell ; fiom the suggestions of
others, I feel alarmed."
His anxiety merited attention : My feelings weie engaged for
him, and most gladly would I have pointed out the latent sources
©f public advantage, had it not been taking the part of a politician
farther than my abilities would juftify. However, his fears of an
accumulated buiden from taxation, were very easily removed.—
Our debt, said I, my worthy friend, according to a late report of
the Secretary of the Treasury, amounts to eighty millions of dol
lars : The annual interest of which is upwards of four millions—
the inhabitants of America amount nearly to that number—affefs
incnts by land and poll tax, with the aid of impost, have been
found equal to the discharge of the annual interest of the said debt,
without oppreflion. Our country is extenfivc, and the increase
of population in no country more rapid—, Let such interest be an
nually discharged—the increase of population, with the constant
accefnons to our improved lands, are the two gieat resources,
Which will prove an increasing finking fund upon the principal,
that will effeflually discharge it—they are the storehouses, out of
Which, without any additional bui den on ourselves, wc fhallmake
payment of our dents. M But," inquired my honest friend, w (hall
the greatest refourccs of oui country be realized by foreigners, and
•we excluded from any benefit of them ?" By no means, replied I.
Thofc must bccrtditors unheard of for their exa&ions, who should
demand, and that a custom unpai allelled for its rigor that should
fan&ion the payment of interest for the whole debt until all was
discharged: Such an idea, if entertained, would be an extrava
gant departure, not only from justice, but from fa£Vs. As the debt
is discharged the interest must decrcafe, and our taxes be propor
tionably lightened. The two resources then conftantlyoperating
with increasing effett to the removal of the debt, must realize to us
in a very sensible manner, our advantage from them: They will
at length, added I, redeem themselves; and all their ftrcams be
turned to the watering their own country. Be not discouraged ;
Jet not the most frightful suggestions of the discontented scare you
from youi industry. Taxes, in this country, never havebeen, and
we may confidently believe they never will be the means of im
prifoningthe industrious man. The cafe of the farmer has infome
refpefts been hard, too small a coinpaiative value has been set on
the produce of his farm, when made the confederation of money.
Too free a use of foreign commodities was the reason, the purchaie
of which made large and constant draughts on our fpecic. But
against this evil we are daily fticngthening ourselves : Progress in
preparations for supplying our demands from among ourselves, is
fuccefstully made : The interests of the mechanic, husbandman,
and artisan, are anxiously blended with the firft obje&s of our le
giflatoro. Under their watchful protettion, all the means within
reach for promoting them wil be hunted up. Thus will industry
be encouraged and our money made more plenty.
(From the Majjachujetts Spy.)
AMERICAN MANUFACTURES.
WE are happy in inferring the following farts,
corroborative of the advancement of the
manufactures of our country.
The Hon. Mr. Shaw, owner of the beautiful
Ship MajfachufeUs, derigned for the Ealt-India
Trade, from an attachment to his native place,
and to exemplify his disposition to promote the
manufactures of his country, furniflied his Ship
both with cordage and fail cloth from theßofton
manufactories ; ofthelatterlietooknearly twelve
thousand yards ; which cloth, from the many ex
periments made of it, is pronounced to be fuper
iour to foreign canvas of any fabric whatever ;
one of its lingular excellences is, that it has
hitherto proved incapable of taking mildew, ow
ing to a peculiar manner in preparing the yarns
—and for finnnels of texture and durablenefs of
Wear, is allowed to be far before any other cloth.
The encouragement the promoters of it have
met with in their sales, has induced them to build
another factory, which they have now in hand,and
when completed expert soon to turn out upwards of
two thousand yards a week, which theymake of dif
ferent denominations, from No. I to 8 inclusive:
Tn addition to the above, three other Indiamen
have been wholly cloathed with it, as well as a
great number of vefl'els of every description.
A regular Woolen Manufartory is now eftab
li&ed at Watertown under the direction of Meflrs.
Faulkner and Co. and tho in its infancy, pro
linfes gi'eac success, as they have already made
upwards of tvro thousand yards of Cloth, which
turns out much cheaper than Engli(b Cloths of
the fame quality. ( Majf. Centinel.)
iftti
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 9 , MAIDEN-LANK, NEW-YORK.
SATURDAY, APRIL 1 0 , 1790 ,
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, MARCH 17.
Mr. Smith fS. C.) Speech on the report "f the Committee on the mtmoria,
of the People callea Quakers.
(CONTINUED.)
ANOTHER plan was to liberate all those who Ihould be born
after a certain limited period : fucha scheme would produce
this very extraordinary phenomenon,that the mother would be a Have
and her child would, be free. Thel'e young emancipated negroes
by associating with their enslaved parents, would participate in all
the debasement which slavery was fa id lo occasion. But allowing
that a practicable scheme of general emancipation could be devit
ed, there can be no doubt that the two races would still remain
dillinct. It was known from experience that the whites had such
an idea of their superiority over the blacks that they never even
auociated with them; even the warmest friends to the blacks kept
them at a diitance, and rcje£led all inteicourfe with them Could
any inttance be quoted of their i*ter-marrying; the Quakers
alierted that nature had made all men equal, and that the differ
ence ot colour Ihoutd not place negroes on a worse footing in so
ciety than the whites ; but had any of them ever married a neero
or would any of them fuffcr their children to mix their blood
with that of a black ?—they would view with abhorrence such an
alliance.
Mr. Smith then read some extracts from Mr. Jefferfon'j notes
on Virginia, prov>ng that negroes were by nature an inferior race
ot beings ; and that the whites would always feel a repugnance at
mixing their blood with that of the blacks. Thus, he proceeded
that refpeftable author, who was dcfirous of countenancing eman
cipation, was on a consideration of the fubjeft induced candidly
to avow thatthe difficulties appeared insurmountable. The friends
to manumission had said that by prohibiting the further importa
tion of (laves and by liberating those born after a certain period
a gradual emancipation might take place, and that in process of
time the very color would,be extinik and there would be none but
whites. He was at a lof> to learn how that consequence would re
sult. If the blacks did not intermarry with the whites, they
would remain black to the end of time ; for it was not contended
that liberating them would whitewash them ; if they did intermar
ry with the whites, then the white race would be extinfi, and the
American people would be all of the mulatto breed. In whatever
light therefore the fubjeft was viewed, the folly of emancipation
was manifell. He truftcd these confideratioru would prevent any
further application to Congrcfs on this point, and would so far
ha\>e weight with the committee as to rejp£l the clause altogether
or at lcaft to declare in plain terms that Congress have no right
whatever to manumit the (laves ot this country.
Various objeflions, said he, had at different times been alledged
against the abominable praQicc, as it had been called, of one man
exercising dominion over another ; but slavery was no new thing
in the world—the Romans, the Greeks, and other nations of
antiquity, held (laves at thr lime christianity fiift dawned on so
ciety, and the profeflors of its mild doflrines never preached a
gainst it. Here Mr. Smith read a quotation from the Roman and
Grecian history, and from Come accounts of the government and
manners of the people of Africa, before they had any knowledge
of the African traders, from which he said it appeared that (laverv
was not disapproved of by the apostles when they went about dif
lufing the principles of christianity ; and that it was not owing to
the African trade, as had been alledged, that the people of Africa
made war on each other.
Another objection against flavcrv was, that the number of slaves
in the southern States weakened that part of the Union, and in cafe
ot invasion would require a greater force to protett it. Negroes, it
was fa id, would not fight : hut he would alk whether it was ow
ing to their being black or to their being slaves ; if to their being
black, then unqueftionablv emancipating them would not remedy
the evil, for they would flill remain black ; if it was owing to
their being slaves, he denied the position ; for it was an undenia
ble truth, that in many coumriesflavcs made excellent soldiers.
In Ruflia, Hungary, Poland, the peasants were slaves, and yet
were brave troops. In Scotland, not man) years ago, the High
land peasants wercabfolute slaves to their lairds,and they were re
nowned foj; their bravery. The Turks were as much enslaved as
the negroes—their property and lives were at the absolute disposal
of the Sultan, yet they fought with undaunted courage. Many
other instances might be quoted, but those would fuffice to refute
the fact. Had experience proved that the negroes would not make
good soldiers ? He did not aflert that they would, but they had
never been tried ; discipline was every thing ; white militia made
but indifferent soldiers before they were disciplined. It was well
known that according to the present art of war, a soldier was a
mere machine, and he did not fee why a black machine was not
its good as a white one ; in one refpeft the black tioops would have
the advantage by appearing more hoirible in the eyes of the ene
my. But admitting that they would not fight, to what would the
argument lead ? Undoubtedly to (hew that the Quakers, Moravi
ans, and all the non-rcfifting and non-fighting fefcts, constituted the
weakness of a country. Did they not contribute to strengthen
the country against invasion by flaying at home and joining the in
vader as soon as he was fuccefsful ? But they furnifhed money, he
ftiould be told, and paid fubftixutes—and did not the slaves by en
creafing the agriculture of the country add to its wealth, and there
by encreafe its ftrefigth ? did thev not moreover perform many
laborious services in the camp and in the field, aflift in transporting
b a £g a £ e » conveying artillery, throwing up fortifications, and thus
enrreale the numbers in the ranks by supplying their places in thefc
services ? Nor was it neceflary that every part of the empire fliould
furnifh fighting men ; one part supplied men, another money—one
part was strong in population, another in valuable exports, which
added to the opulence of the whole. Great-Britain obtained no
soldiers from her East and Weft-India settlements, were they
therefore useless ? She was obliged to fend troops to protest them,
but their valuable trade furniflicd her with means of paying those
troops.
Another objection was, that the public opinion was again!) sla
very: How did that appear ? Were there any petitions on the fub
jefl excepting that from the Pcnnfylvania society and a few Qua
kers ? And were they tojudge for the whole continent? Were the
citizens of the Northern or Eastern States to diflateto Congrefson
a measure in which the Southern Rates were so deeply interested ?
There were no petitions against slavery from the Southern states,
and they were the only proper judges of what was for their inte
rest. The toleration of slavery in the several states was a matter of
internal regulation and policy, in which each state had a right to
do as (he pleated, and no other state had any right to intermeddle,
with her pblicy or laws. If the citiaens ot the Northern states
were displeased with the toleration of slavery in theSoAthern states,
the latter were equally disgusted with some things tolerated in the
former, He bad mentioned on a former occasion the dangerous
Jpfdh'S.
PRICh THREE DOLLARS PR. ANN
tenets and pernicious practices ot the left of Shaking Quakers
who preached against matrimony, and whofc doflrine and rxim
p e, it they prevailed, wouid cither depopulate the United States,
or people it with a fpunous race. However the people of South
Carolina reprobated the gross and immoral condutl of thtfe Sha
tters, they had not petitioned Congress to expel them from the
continent, though they thought fueh a measure would, be fervicea
' C {°J J V n " cd Statcs - The legislature of South Carolina had
prohibited theatrical representations, deeming them improDer
ut they did not trouble Congress with an application to abo'lilh
them m New-York and Philadelphia—The Southern citizen,
might alio consider the toleration of Quakers as an injury to the
community, because in time of war they would not defend their
country from the enemy, and in time of peace they wete liucriei
ing in the concerns of others, and doing every thing in their pow.
'' le laves1 av es in the Southern Hates to infurreftion ; not.
with (landing which the people of those states had not requiredthe
amltance of Congress to exterminate the Quakers.
But he could not help obfervingthat this fqueamilhnefs wasvepy
extroardmary at this time. The Northern states knew tint the
outtiern states had (laves before they confederated with them. If
they had such an abhorrence for slavery, why said Mr. Smith, did
they not cast us off and reject our alliance P The truth was, that
tne molt informed part of the citiiens of the Northern states knew
that slavery was so ingrafted into the policy of the Southern states,
that it could' not be eradicated without tearing up by the roots their
apptnefs, tranquility and prosperity—that if ii were an evil, it
was one for which there was no remedy, aod therefore, like wife
men they acquiesced in it: We, on the other hand, knew that the
Quaker doftrmes had taken such deep root in some of the states
that all refinance to them mull be useless : We therefore made a
compromise on both fides, we took each other with our mutual
bad habits and refpeflive evils, for better tor worse; the North
ern states adopted us with our (laves, we adopted them with their
Quakers. There was then an implied compact between the North
ern and southern people that no ftcp should be taken to iniure the
property of the latter, or to disturb their tranquility. It was
therefore with great pain he had viewed the anxiety of some of the
members to pay such uncommon refpefl to the memorialists as
even to let aside the common rules of proceeding, and attempt to
commit the memorials the very day they were presented, though
the Southern members had folic.ted one day's delay. Such pro
ceedings had jullly railed an alarm in the minds of his Souther,,
colleagues; and feeling that alarm, they would have acted a dis
honorable part to their constituents had they not expreded them-
d warmth anci fo'icitude which some gentlemen had
A proper confutation of this business, must convince every
candid mind, that emancipation would be attended with one or
other ot these consequences ; cither that a mixture of the races
would-degenerate the whites, without improving the blacks or
that it would create two separate clalTesof people in the communi
ty involved in inveterate hoftil.ty, which would terminate in the
" d "'l'P 2 " 0 ' 1 of one or the other, as the Moors were
pelled from Spain and the Danes from England. The negroes
would not he benefited by it ; free negroes nevei improve in tal
ents, never grow rich, and continue to associate with the people
0 their own color. This is owing either to the natural averfio.i
tne whites entertain towards them, and an opinion of the fupe
nonty of their race, or to the natural attachment the blacks have
ot ole of their own color; in either cafe it proves that they will
alter manumission continue a diftinft people, and have separate in
terells. The author already quoted, has proved that they are an
interior racc even to the Indians.
Alter the last war a number of negroes which had been stolen
trom the southern States, and carricd to England, either quitted
ry C P, ons w "° carried them there, or were abandoned by them.
Unable to provide for themselves, and rejefkd from the society of
the common people of England, they were begging about the
ltreets ot London in great numbers ; they supplicated captains of
vellels to carry them back to their owners in America, preferring
ilavery there, to freedom in England. Many of them were (hip
ped to Africa by the humanity of the Englilh, and were either
butchered or made (laves by their savage countrymen, or refhip
ped lor sale to the plantations.
But some persons have been of opinion that if the further impor
tation of (laves could be prohibited, there would be a gradual
extinction of the species. Having (hewn the absurdity of libera
t'ngth cpojlnati without extendingit to all the (laves old and voun»,
n in. B [w absurdity and even impra&ibility of extending it to
all, I'ha 11 fay a few words with regard tothe extinaion ; that
would be impoflible, because they increase—to occaflon an extinc
tion, Congress mult prohibit all intercourse between the sexes s
this would be an ast of humanity they would not thank us for,
nor would they be pervaded that it was lor their own good, or
Congress mud, like' Herod, order all the children tobe put to death
asloonas born. If then nothingbutevil wonld refultfrom eman
cipation, under the existing circumstances of the country, why
ihould Congress stir at all in the business, or give any countenance
to luch dangerous applications. We have been told that the go
vernment ought to manifeft a disposition inimical to this praftile
which the people reprobate. If some citizens, from mSfinforma
lion and ignorance have imbibed prejudices against the southern
States, if ill-intentioned authors have related falfe fafls, and.gross
misrepresentations tending to traduce the character of a whole State,
and to millead the citiiens in other States, is that a fufficient real
lon why a large territory is to be depopulated, merely to gratify
the with of some mifinformed individuals ? But what have the ci
tizens of the other States to do with our (laves ? Have they any
right to interfere with our internal policy?
This is not an object of general concern, for I have already prov
ed that it does not weaken the Union ; but admit that it did, will
the abolition of slavery strengthen South-Carolina ? It can only
be cultivated by (laves ; the climate, the nature of the foil, anci
ent habits, forbid it by the whites ; experience convinces us of the
truth ot this. Great-Britain made every attempt to fettle Georgia
bv whites alone and failed, and was compelled at length to intro
duce Haves ; after which, that State increased very rapidly in o
pulence and importance. If the slaves gre emancipated, they will
not remain in that country—remove the cultivators of the foil,
and the whole of the low country, all the fertile rice and indigo
Iwamps will be deserted, and become a wilderness' What then
becomes of its strength ? Will such a fchemc increase it ? Instead
ol mcrcafing the population of the whites, there will be no whites
at all; if the low country is deserted, where will be the commerce,
the valuable exports of that countiy, the large revenue raised from
itsimports and from the consumption of the rich planters ? In a
(hort time the northern and eastern States will supply us with their
manufactures; if you depopulate the rich low country of South-
Carolina and Georgia, you will give us a blow which will imme
diately recoil on yourselves. Suppose that 140,000 slaves in those
States, which require annually five yards of cloth each, making
700,000 yards at hills a dollar a yard, this makes 350,000 dollars,
bcfidcs the articles of linen, flannel, oznaburgh, blankets, molasses,sugar and ram for the ufeof the negroes; now, either the eastern
and middle States will supply us with all these articles or they will
receive the benefit of the impost on them if they were imported
from foreign countries. Without the rice iwamps of Carolina,
Charleston would decay, so would the commerce of that city : this
would injure the back country. If you injure the Southern States,
the injury would reach our Northern and Eastern brethren ; for
the States are links of one chain : if we break one the whole must
tall to pieccs. Thus it is manifeftthat in proportion to theincreafe
of our agriculture will our wealth be increased ; the increase of
which will augment that of our lifter will either sup
ply us with their commodities, or raise a large revenue uponus,
•or be the carriers of our produce to foreign markets.
(to be continued.)
WEDNESDAY, APRIL 7.
Several petitions were read.
In ommittee of the whole on the bill provid
ing for the punilhment of certain crimes against
the United States. —Mr. Livermore in the
chair.
Several fediions of the bill were difcufled.
The clause which enacfls chat counterfeiting the
securities of the United States, or uttering coun
terfeits knowingly, shall be punished with death,
by being hanged, it was moved, should be amend
ed by ltriking out the words " punished with
death by being hanged," to admit a less punish
ment for uttering or passing, than for counter
feiting. The degrees of criminality in the two
cases were accurately defined by Mr. Sherman.
Mr. Sedgwick observed, that he thought the
degrees of punishment ought to be proportioned
to the malignity of the offence.
He enlarged on the pernicious consequences of
counterfeiting : He considered it as a crime a
gainlfc the molt important interests of society—
and of a peculiarly malignant tendency in the
present and probable situation of the U ni ted States.
Persons addicted to forgery, are seldom, if ever,
reclaimed—the security of the society therefore
appears to depend, on a capital punishment.—
The idea is ltrengthened when we reflect on the
mifchiefand ruin which have already enfuedfrom
forgery,
Mr. Sedgwick afterwards conceded to the
clause as it stood.
Mr. Fitzsimons was opposed to the motion—
He adverted to the pra<fiice and experience of
Great Britain—the injurious and fatal consequen
ces to credit which reiult from Forgery, are con
sidered in England in so feriousa point of light,
that the Bank pays notes which they know to be
counterfeit. Hence the inexorable rigor of the
laws of that country in cases of forgery. He
could not fee so clearly,as lome gentlemen appear
to, the difference between forging, and fiinplyut
tering what is known to be counterfeit—the mif
chiefis not compleated till the forgery is uttered.
He enlarged on the idea of guarding public pa
per by every possible expedient.
Mr. White obfeived, that he was opposed in
general to inflicfting Death, except for murder,
or crimes which might terminate in murder; but
in the present cafe, he thought there were degrees
of guilt, and the punilhinent ought to be propor
tioned. He was moreover opposed to a capital
punilhment in this cafe, as he conceived it would
tend to prevent convictions.
Mr. Sherman laid he had known persons who
had been convicfted of this crime, that had after
wards reformed.
Mr. Smith and Mr. Burke were opposed to
the motion. They severally dilated on the in
juries which society was liable to, from the in
genuity of tliefe unprincipled persons—the ex
treme difficulty of guarding against their depre
dations rendered it highly expedient they should
be cut off.
The vote being taken on the motion, it was ne
gatived—and the clause retained.
Further progress was made in the discussion—
but the com mittee rose without going thro the bill.
Adjourned.
THURSDAY, APRIL 8
Sundry petitions were read and referred
In committee of the whole.—The bill 011 crimes
andpunifhments was further difculled—but not
finifhed at 3 o'clock—when the committee role—
and the House adjourned.
FRIDAY, APRIL 9.
Mr. Gilman of the committee of enrolment,
informed'tlieHoufe,that the Ad:for the encourage
ment of ufeful arts'was laid before The President
for his aflent, the Bth iuft.
Mr. Goodhue presented a memorial from the
merchants andtraders of thediitricfl of Newbury -
port, refpecfting the duties on tonnage —which
was read and referred to the Secretary of the
Treasury. Also a petition from the Proprietors
of the Cotton Manufactory, in Beverly—praying
a reduction of the Impolt on Cotton—which was
referred to a committee of Five Members, viz.
Mr. Goodhue, Mr. IVadfworth, Mr. Syhcfler, Mr.
Clymer, and Mr. Gale.
The committee, to whom was referred the ac
counts of the Printers, for newspapers, reported,
That those accounts be paid out of the appropria
tion for contingent expences—and that in future
no more newspapers be supplied the House on the
public account.
The committee to whom the accounts of the
Treafurerof the United States were referred,
brought in a report, which is, that the accounts
are properly stated, and the expenditures agree
able to appropriations made by law.
In committee of the whole, —The bill on crimes
and puniihments under consideration. The dil
cullion was finifhed this day—The committee rose
and reported the bill with sundry amendments.
It was then moved that the bill with the amend
ments be referred to a (elect committee. 1 his
motion was loit. The amendments were taken
up by the House, and some of them agreed to —
others rejeCled—and to-morrow alligned for the
third reading of the bill.
A meflage was received from the Senate with
the bill for further suspending part of the Collec
tion Law, pafled with amendments, in which they
request the concurrence of the House.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) moved, that a joint com
mittee be appointed to consider and determine at
what time the conunifllons of the Members of the
two Houfeslhall expire—motion laid on the table.
Mr. Ames of the committee of conference, on
the disagreement between the two Houses, ref
pedting aclaufe in the bill for the mitigation or
remilfions of fines, penalties and forfeitures in cer
tain cases, reported that the committee had at
tended that fervice —-but had come to no agree
ment.
The amendments of the Senate to the bill for
further suspending part of the Collection Law
were read, and agreed to by the House.
Adjourned till Monday next.
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED
STATES OF AMERICA.
PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS a Convention for defining and es
tablishing the functions and privileges of
the refpecftive Consuls and vice-Consuls of his
molt Chrillian Majelly and of the said United
States, was concluded and signed by the Plenipo
tentiaries of his said Mod Chrillian Majesty and
ot the said United States, duly and refpecftively
anthorized for that purpose, which Convention is
in the form following, viz.
Convention,
Between His Most Christian Majesty and
the United States of America, forthe pur
pose of defining and establishing the functions
and privileges of their refpedlive Consuls and
vice-Confuls.
HIS Majcfty the Most Christian King and the United States of
America, having by the 29th art. of the Treaty of Amity and
Commerce concluded between them,mutually granted the liberty
of having, in their rcfpc&ive States and Ports, Consuls, Vice-Con
suls, Agents and Commiffaries,and being willing, in consequence
thereof, to define and eftablifli in a reciprocal and permanent man
ner the fun&ions and privileges of Consuls and Vice-Consuls,
which they have judged it convenient to eftablifli of preference,
His M. C. Majcfty has nominated the Sieur Count of Montmorin
of St. Herent, Marechal of his Camps and Armies, Knight of his
Orders and of the Golden Fleece, his Counsellor in all his Coun
cils, Minilterand Secretary of State and of his Commandments
and Finances, having the Department of foreign affairs, and the
United States have nominated the Sieur Thomas Jefferfon, Citizen
of the United States of America and their Minister Plenipotentiary
near the King, who after navingcommunicatcdto each other their
refpc&ive full powers, have agreed on what follow# :*
Art. I. The Consuls and vice-Consuls named by the M. C.
K. and the U. S. fliall be bound to present their commiflions ac
cording to the forms which fliall be eftabliftied refpe&ivelv by the
M. C. K. within his dominions, and by the Congrefa within the
U. S. there fliall be delivered to them, without any charges, the
Exequatur neceflary for the exercise of their fun&ions ; and on
exhibiting the said Exequatur, the Governors, Commanders,
Heads of justice, bodies corporate, Tribunals and other Officers
having authority in the ports and places of their consulates, shall
cause them to enjoy immediately, and without difficulty, the pre
eminencies, authority and privileges, reciprocally granted, with
out exalting from the said Consuls and vice-Contuls any fee, un
der any pretext whatever.
Art. 11. The Consuls and vice-Consuls and persons attached
to their functions that is to fay, their Chancellors and Secretaries,
fliall enjoy a full and entire immunity for their Chancery and the
papers which fhtll be therein contained: they fliall be exempt
from all personal fcivice, from soldiers billets, militia, watch,
guard, guardianfliip, truilee-fliip, as well as from all duties,
taxes, impolitions, and charges whatsoever, except on the estate
real and personal of which they may be the proprietors or posses
sors, which shall be fubjeft to the taxes imposed on the estates of
all other individuals: and in all other instances they fliall be fub
je£l to the laws of the land as the natives arc. Those of the said
Consuls and vice-Consuls who shall exercise commerce fliall be
refpc&ively fubjeft to all taxes,charges and impositions eftablifli
ed on other merchants. They fliall place over the outwaad door
of their house the arms of their Sovereign : but this mark of indi
cation shall not give to the said house any privilege of afvlum for
any person or property whatsoever.
Art. 111. The refpeitive Consuls and vice-Consuls may esta
blish Agents in the different ports and places oftheir departments
where neceflity (hall require. These Agents may be chosen a
mong the merchants either national or foreign, and furnilhed with
a commiflion from one of the said Conluls : They (hall confine
theinfelvcs refpeflively to the rendering to their refpeftive mer
chants, navigators, and vcffels all pofiible service, and to inform
the nearest Consul ot the wants of the said merchants, navigators
and vcffels, without the said Agents otherwise participating in the
immunities, rights and privileges attributed to Consuls and vice-
Consuls, and without power under any pretext whatever to exaa
from the said merchants any duty or emolument whatsoever
Art. IV. The Conluls and vice-Consuls refpeftivek may efta
bhlh a chancery, where ihall be deposited the Conlular determi
nations, acts and proceedings as also teflaments, obligations con
tracts, and other acts done by. or betwern prrfori of their'nati
414
on, and effect: Jcftby decesft.d per fans, or fuvra from ftiipwteck
They may coiucquentlv appoint lit peifons to ast in the fold c ),
eery,. receive and swear them in, commit to them thecuftody"t
the leal, and 'authority to seal commiflions, fentencej aa d 0 (L
consular ast;, and alio to discharge the functions of notarvanJ "
gifter o( tlit Conlulate. '
Art. V. Tht Consuls and vice-ConJuls refpettively fhallhave
theexclufive right of receiving in their chanccry, or on board ot
vessels, the declarations and all otherthea&s, which the captains
maimers, crews, passengers, and merchants of their nation n, a y
chute to make there, even their teftamcnts ana other difpoials bv
laftwill: and the copies ot the laid a&s, duly authenticated by
the said Consuls or vice-Coilfuls, under the fcal of their confuht*
fhali receive faith in law, equally as their originals would, in *[[
the tribunals of the dominions of the M. C. King and of the Unit
ed States. They (hall also have, and exclusively, in cafe of the
absence of the teilameiitary executor, adminiflrator or legal heir
the right to inventory, liquidate and proeeed to the faleofthe
personal estate left by fubjefls or citizens of their nation, who
shall die within the extent ot their consulate : they shall proceed
therein with the aflUtance ot two merchants of their said nation
or, for want of them, of any other at their choice, and Hull caule
to be deposited in their chancery, the ett'e£fs and papers of the
said estates; and no officer military, judiciary, or of the police
of the country (hall disturb them or interfere therein, in any man
ner whatsoever : but the said Consuls and vice-Consuls (hall not
deliver up the said efFects, nor the proceeds thereof to the lawful
heirs or to their order, till they shall have caused to b& paid all
debts which the deceased lhall have contrasted in the countrv •
tor which purpose the creditors (hall have a right to attach the said'
efte£ta in their hands as they might in those of any other individu
al whatever, and proceed to obtain sale of them till payment of
what (hall be lawfully due to them. When the debts shall not
have been contracted by judgment, deed or note, the filature
whereof lhall be known, payment (hall not be ordered butonthe
creditor's giving fufficient surety resident in the country, to refund
the iums he (hall have unduly received, principal, interest and
costs : which surety nevertheless fhallftand duly discharged after
the term of one year in time of peace, and of two in time of war
if the demand in discharge cannot be formed before the end of
this term against the heirs who shall present themselves, And in
order that the heirs may not be unjustly kept out of theeffetts of
the deceased the Consuls and vice-Consuls (hall notify his death in
fomeoneot the gazettes publilhed within their confulate,and that
they shall retain the faideffe&s in their hands four months toan
fwci all demands which (hall be presented : and they shall be
bound after this delay to deliver to the persons succeeding thereto
what shall be more than fufficient for the demands which shall
have been formed.
Art. VI. The Consuls and vicc-Confuls refpe&ively lhall re
ceive the declarations, protefls and reports of all captains and mas
ters of their refpe&ive naticm on account of average losses sustained
at sea ; and these captains and matters lhall lodge in the chancery
of the said Consuls and vice-Consuls, thea&s whichthey may have
made in other ports on account of the accidents which may have
happened to them on their voyage. If a fubjeftof the M. C. K.
and a citizen of the 0. S. or a foreigner are intereiled in the said
cargo, the average shall be fettled by the tribunals of the country
and not by the Coniuls or vice-Consuls ; but when only thefub
je£h or citizens of their own nation shall be interested,"the respec
tive Consuls or vicc-Confuls (hall appoint fkilful persons to fettle
the damages and average.
Art. VII. In cases where by temped,or other accident, French
ftiips or veflels lhall be branded on the coasts of the U. S. and
ships or veflels of the U. S. (hall be stranded on the coasts of the
dominions of the M. C. K. the Consul or vice-Consul neareftto
the place of shipwreck shall do whatever he may judge proper, as
well for the purpose of saving the said fhipor vessel, its cargo and
appurtenances, as for the ftonng and the security of the effeftsand
merchandize saved. He may take an inventory of them, without
the intermedling of any officers of the military, of the customs, of
justice, or of the police of the country, otherwise than to give to the
Consuls, vicc-Confuls, captain and crew of the vessel fhipwreckcd
or stranded all the succor and tavor which they shall aflcofthero,
either for the expedition and security of the saving and of the ef
fects saved, as to prevent all disturbance. And in order to prevent
all kind of dilpute and difcuflion in the said cases of shipwreck,
it is agreed that when there shall be no Consul, or vice-Consul to
attend to the saving of the wreck, or that the residence of the said
Consul or vice-Consul (he not being at the place of the wreck] (hall
be morediftant from the said place than that of the competent
Judge of the Country, the latter lhall immediately proceed therein
with all the dispatch, certainty, and precautions prescribed by the
refpeftive laws ; but the said territorial Judge shall retire, on the
arrival of the Consul or vice-Consul, and shall deliver over to him
the report of his proceedings, the expences of which the Consul
or vice-Consul shall cause to be reimbursed to him, as wellasthofe
of saving the wreck. The merchandize and effe&s saved (hall be
deposited intheneareft custom house, or other place of fafety,
with the inventory thereof which shall have been made by th«
Consul or vice-Consul, or by the Judge who (hall have proceeded
in their absence, that ihe said effetts and merchandise may be af
terwards delivered (after levying therefrom the costs) and without
form of process, to the owners, who being furnifhed with an or
der for their delivery from the nearcfl Consul or vice-Consul, (hall
reclaim them by themselves, or by their order, either for the pur
pole of re-exporting such merchandise, in which cafe they (hall pay
no kind of duty of exportation, or for that of felling them in the
country, if they be not prohibited there, and in this lad cafe, the
laid merchandize, if they be damaged, shall be allowed an abate
ment of entiance duties proportioned to the damage they have
luftained, which shall be ascertained by the affidavits taken at the
time the vefTcl was wrecked or struck.
Art. VIII. The Consuls or vice-Consuls shall exercise Police
over all the veflels of their refpe&ive Nations, and (hall have on
board the said veflels all power and jurisdi&ion in Civil Matters,
in all the disputes which may there arise, they (hall have an entire
infpeftion over the said veflels, their crew and the changes and
fubflitutions thert to be made. For which purpose they may go
on board the said veflels whenever they may judge it neccffary.
Well understood that the functions hereby allowed {hall be confi
ned to the interior of the veflels, and that they shall not take place
in any cafe which shall have arty interference with the Policeofthe
ports wherethe said veflels lhall be.
Art. IX. The Consuls and vice-Consuls may cause to be ar
retted the Captains, Officers, Mariners, Sailors, and all other per-
Tons being part of the crews of the vessels of their refpe&ive Na
tion who lhall have deferred from thefaid vessels in order to fend
them back and transport them out of the country. For which pur
pose the said Consuls and vice-Consuls shall address thcmfelves to
l he Courts, Judges, and Officers competent, and shall demand the
said oeferters in writing, proving by an exhibition of the regmers
of the vessel or {hip's roll that those men were part of the said
crews : and on this demand so proved (saving however where the
contrary is proved) the delivery shall not be refufed ; and there
shall be given all aid and afliftance to the said Consuls and vice-
Consuls for the seizure and arrest of the said deserters, who
shall even be detained and kept in the prisons of the Country, 3t
their request and expence until they shall have found an opportuni
ty of fending them back. But if they be not sent back within three
months, to be counted from the day of their arrest, they lhall be
set at liberty, and shall be no mere arretted for the fame cause.
Art. X. In cases «vhere the refpettive fubjetts or citizens lha
have committed any crime, or breach of the peace, they fnall e
amenable to the Judges of t he Country.
Art. XI. When the said offenders shall be a part of|the crew
of a vessel of their nation, and shall have withdrawn theinfelves on
board the said vessel they may be there seized and arrested by or er
of the Judges of the Country : these shall give notice thereotthe Conlul or viee-Conlul, who may repair on board if he thinks
proper; but this notification lhall not in any cafe delay execution
of the order inqueftion. The persons arretted lhall not afterwards
befetat liberty until the Consul or vice-Conlul lhall have been no
tified thereof; and they (hall be delivered to him, if he requires it,
to be put again onboard ef the veflel on which they were arretted
or of others of their nation, and to be sent out of the country.
A*t. XII. All differences and suits between the fubjefts of the
M. G. K. in the U. S. or between the citizens of the United States
■within the the dominions of the M. C. K. and particularly all dis
putes relative to the wages and terms of engagement of the crews
of the refpe&ive vessels, and all differences of whatever nature
they be, which may arise between the privates of the said crews,
or between any of them and their captains, or between the capl
tains of different vessels of their nation, (hall be (determined by
the refpcftive Consuls and vice-Consuls, either by a reference to
arbitrators, or by a summary judgment and without costs. No
Officer of the country, civil or military, lhall interfere therein or
take any part whatever in the matter: and the appeals from the
said consular sentences lhall be carried before the tribunals of
France or of the U. S. to whom it may appertain to take cogni
zance thereof.
Art. XIII. The general utility of commerce having caused to
be eftablilhed within the dominions of the M. C. K. particular
tribunals and forms tor expediting the decision of commercial af
fairs, the merchants of the U. S. lhall enjoy the benefit of these
eftablilhments; and the Congress of the U. S. will provide in the
manner the mod conformable to its laws the eftabli(hment of equi
valent advantages in favour of the French merchants, for the
prompt dispatch and decision of affairs of the fame nature.
Art. XIV. The fubjefh of the M. C. K. and citizens of the
U. S. who lhall prove by legal evidence that they are of the said
nations refpeftively, (hall in confequenceenjoy an exemption from
all personal fervicc in the place of their settlement.
Ait. XV. If any other nation acquires by virtue of any con
vention whatever, a treatment more favourable with refpeil to
the consular pre-eminencies, powers, authority and privileges, the
Consuls and vice-Consuls of the M. C. K. or of the U. S. reci
procally (hall participate therein, agreeable to the terms stipulated
by the 2d. 3. and 4th. articles of the treaty of amity and commerce
concluded between the M. C. K. and the U. S.
Art. XVI. The present Convention shall be in full force dur
ing the term of twelve years to be countei from the day of the
exchange of ratifications, which shall be given in proper form
and exchanged on both fides within the ipace of one year, or
sooner if polfible. In faith whereof we Ministers Plenipotentiary
have signed the present Convention, and have thereto set the seal
of our arms.
Done at Versailles the 14th. of November one thousand fev«n
hundred and eighty eight.
Signed,
And whereas the said Convention has been duly
ratified and confirmed by me on the one part,
■with the advice and consent of the Senate, and
by his most Christian Majesty on the other, and
the said ratifications were duly exchanged at Paris
on the lft day of January in the present year :
Now therefore, to the end that the said conven
tion may be observed and performed with good
faith on the part ot the United States, I have or
dered the premises to be made public, and I do
hereby enjoin and require allperfons bearing of
fice, civil or military, within the United States,
and all others, citizens or inhabitants thereof,
or being within the fame, faithfully to observe
and fulfil the said Convention and every clause
and article thereof.
In testimony whereof I havecaufed the Seal
of the United States to be affixed to these
presents, and signed the fame with my
hand. Given at the City of New-York,
the ninth day of April in the year of our
Lord i 790, and of the sovereignty and in
dependence of the United States the four
teenth.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
By the Prcpdcnt,
THOMAS JEFFERSON.
THE TABLET.
" It is an infallible confcquence of all industrious profeflions,to
beget frugality, and make ihe love ofgain prevail over the love of
plcafure."
ACTIVE property usually centers in those
pla es, which art rather than nature has
made rich. There is scarce any thing more ri
diculous than for an indolent man toboaft of na
tural advantages asafource of wealth. The most
fertile foil and mildest climate will never con
fer opulence on an indolent people ; nor can
any defeat of natural resources hold an industri
ous people in poverty. That superiority which
one nation maintains over another in point of
uleful wealth, and operative strength, is the re
sult of art and industry. Men will not fnbjetft
themselves, in the firft instance, to severe labor,
unlefe their situation renders it unvoidable.
Prompted by necessity, they become industrious;
and when they are accustomed to it, they will
choose to be so from habit. When industry cea
ses to be irksome, men begin to grow rich. As
foonas the lave ofgain obtains an ascendency o
ver the love of idlenels, men will acquire more
than they have occasion to consume. Property
colle<fted in this way will seldom be expended in
folly and extravagance ; becaule if a man had
been disposed to be foolifh and extravagant, he
would not probably have been industrious. While
any one is in the habit of industry he will of
course be frugal, and by this means frugality will
likewise become an habit. The Ikill and contri
vance that grow out of experience will render
labor more productive; but the increase of ad
vantage will not abate the ardor of exertion.
Weinuft therefore look to that part of a nation
where industry is moftprevalent, for aciive
wealth, and for the best accommodations of living.
L. C. De MONTMORIN. (L. S.)
THOMAS JEFFERSON. (L.S.)
No. CIV.
In those parts ot a country, to which nature lias
been liberal, people content themselves with few
improvements of art, because they have never been
compelled by necelfiry to rife above that indolence
of character which makes men naturally prefer
an easy life to a ufefulone.
NEWSPAPERS 'AN EXTRACT.
T WAS not a little pleased, the other day, upon
A paying a visit at the house of a person of dif
tincuon in the country, to find the family aflem
bled round a large table, covered with maps, and
globes, and books, at the upper end of which fat
a young lady, like a young profeflor, reading
from the chair. In her hand llie held a newspa
per. Ilei father told me he had long accustomed
her, while reading one of those vehicles of intelli
gence, to acquaint herfelf with thefeveral towns
and countries mentioned, by turning to the names
in Salmon's Gazetteer, and then finding them
out upon the globe, or a map ; in which Ihe was
become so great a proficient, as to be at that time
in truth giving a letfture in geography to her
younger brothers and filters. It was his farther
intention he said, that from Campbell's Present
State of Europe, Hie should acquirc a iufficient
knowledge of the history of the kingdoms around
us, as well as our own, to form an idea of their
importance and interests refpeiftively, and the
relation each bears to the reft. Verily, thought
I to myfelf, this is reading a newspaper to some
purpose.
Childnen, very early in life, are eager for the
fight of the newspaper. By being called upon
in a free and easy way, for some little account of
what is in it, they may gradually be brought to
read with attention, and to fix upon those articles
which are mod worthy of notice ; as alfe to re
member what they have read, from one day to
anot her, and put tilings together.
VV hile we are in the world we must converse
with the world ; and the conversation, in part,
will turn on the news of the day. It is the firll
fubjecfl we begin upon, as a general introduction
to every thing else. All mankind, indeed, are
our brethren, and we are intei efted, or ought to
be interested, in their pleasures and their pains,
their fufferings, or their deliverances, throughout
the world. Accounts of these (hould produce in
us suitable emotions which would tend to the ex
ercise of different virtues, and the improvement
of our tempers. We (hould accustom ourselves
hereby to rejoice with those who rejoice, and sym
pathize with those who mourn.
European Intelligence.
BRUSSELS, January 8.
AN adtion, a few days ago, was fought in the
Ardens, between the Patriotic and Imperial
troops, the former amounting to 16000 men, un
der the command of General Vander Merfch, the
latter to but 2000, commanded by either General
Dalton, or by General Bender. Yet, as another
proof, how inefficacious undisciplined valour is in
the present improved state of tadiics, General
Vander Merfch was routed, with the loss of 1 joo
men, and, as report fays, obliged to retire to
wards Nainur ; 5000 men were immediately sent
from hence to join him at Arlon, and as they
were all of them deserters from the Imperial ar
my, weil disciplined, and good soldiers, thegreat
efl: expectations are formed of their success.
LONDON, Feb. 6.
The Viceroy of Mexico has transmitted home
a packet to Spain, containing several letters, and
other papers, which had been taken out of some
English, Portuguese, and Ruffian veflels, to the
number of 36 fail, by a Spanish frigate, which
had met the said fleet in S. lat. 40 degrees, going
as is foppofed to found a colony. The Captain
of the Spanish frigate had also taken the Com
mander of the fleet.
Extratt of a letter from Ghent, of the $th January,
1790, to a gentleman in Liverpool.
"We are well advanced, and hope soon to ai
;ive at the liberty which you enjoy. Our mo
narch has done many thingslcoritrary to his oath to
the llates of the low Countries at his inauguration,
which has been proved in a proclamation made
yesterday, from a theatre ere<fted for the pur
pose in the great market place, where there met
about jo,ooo people, whose cries were all for the
states and liberty, so that we look on all to be con
cluded, and think that your court and that of
Berlin, with Holland, will interfereif neceflary."
Contrary to that idea, which gives consequence
to inoft European States, the Americans pique
themselves upon having no (landing army or hea
vy navy. They rely on their own internal
llrength for protection in cafe of war, and are,
in the mean time freed from the burthens of
permanent taxes.
They are at present employed in a great nati
onal undertaking, that of cutting through an ex
tent of 40 or 50 miles across the country, to one
of their great lakes, which will unite several
large rivers, and communicate with the Ohio, a
circumstance that will be highly favourable to
navigation and commerce.
415
NEW-YORK, APRIL 10.
A correspondent observes that as revenue is not
a fubjecft of Rhetoric—but of Arithmetic he lias
been puzzled at the long declamations' which
have been made on the bulinels in acertain house
The principles laid down by the Secretary of
the Treasury in the introductory part of his re
port, being admitted, as they have been ahn«ft
universally—the business of finance rcfolves it.
lelfinto calculation-, this being the cafe, it is
hardly possible that any eflential errors Ihould be
committed ; if any Ihould take place they mult be
voluntary.
The government of the United States being
now organized—the several executive depart
ments tilled, the influence of the laws, bein<r
felt—and their salutary effects generally real
ized, universal content pervades the union and
the profpecfi is, that our country will enjoy a
long continuance of peace.—lf the public tran
quility is secured, it is hardly pofhble to conceive
how rapidly our resources will encreafe, and
with what facility our debts will be discharged
when they lhallonce be funded ; from that 'mo
ment, the real weight of the burden will begin
to diminifti ; and there can be no doubt on the
mind of any unprejudiced person, that tho a pub
lic debt, is in itfelf, not eligible, yet in the pre
sent circumstances of our country, a circulation
of property will be the consequence of funding
that will give a universal spring to industry ; & a
circulation that would not be induced from a'nv
other cause whatever ; a circulation, which will
facilitate every mechanical, agricultural and
commercial operation ; a circulation, the want
of which, is the source of every embarraffinenc
under which the above important interests at pre
sent labor.
A correspondent observes that the most stri
king diflinttion without a difference, is that made
between the Continental and State Debts.
The Hon. John Wauir. Esq. is appointed a Senator of
the United States, in the toon* of the Hon. Col. William Gray Ton
deceased. 7
Married, on Sunday* the 28th ult. Mr. Robert Cornell,
late of Flushing, to the amiable and accomplished Miss Ann
Lyons, daughter of the Reverend Mr. James Lyons, of Brook
haven, Suffolk County ; a young lady of fortune, and poffefle dos
every qualification necessary to render the marriage union happy*
ADVERTISEMENT.
THIS number completes the tirst volume or the
gazette OF TH« united itateSi An Index is preparing
and will be publilhed as soon as poflible : Those Subscribers who
intend to have their numbers bound, may be accommodated, by
fending them to the Editor.
This Gazette will be continued upon its original plan, vij>.
Be publiflied, Wednesdays and Saturday!, at defeat of the
Federal Government—contain Sketches of Debates in the National House
vf Representatives—and the result of the deliberations <jf Congress -
THE LAWS OF THE UNITED STATES-Efays and Paragraphs
on Politics, Finance, Government, Education, Arts, Agriculture, Com.
meree, and Manujaflures—Domejlic and Foreign Intelligence, tic.
TERMS OF SUBIC Rl PTION,
Three dollars per annum, exclusive of portage : Payments to be
Six Months in advance.
The Editor acknowledges, with gratitude, the favorable re
ception which the Gaz ett e has received from a generous public.
His interefl muftpowerfully impel tofuch exertions as may ensure
a continuance of general approbation. The favors of his corres
pondents he hopes will be continued : Some new sources of sup
ply he e)tpefts will be opened—every hint for the improvement
of the publication will be attended to—that it mayfubferve the in
terefh of Virtue, Science, Freedom and Government.
Subfcribet-s may be furniftjed with papers to complete their
sets, as far as the files of the Editor can supply them gratis.
Saturday, April to, 1790.
ARRIVALS SINCE OUR LAST. NEW YORK.
Brig, Novel, Noble, London, 46 days.
Schooner, New-York, Packet, Barnard, Boston, 10 days
James F. Sebor, and Co.
Have removed from No. 59, to No. 187, Water-Street, near the
Fly-Market,
WHERE they negociate all kinds ofPUBLICK
SECURITIES—BILLS OF EXCHANGE. &c. as usual.
April 8, 1790. t. f.
To be SOLD,
For CERTIFICATES, Or txekangid for LAND,
TWENTY-Two acres of ground in the Cily of New-York #
fronting Great George-Street, Bowry-Lane, and Greenwich-
Lane. On the premises is a brick dwelling house containing ten
rooms; a smaller brick house with four rooms; a house with a
brick front with two rooms : In each house is a Kitchen, and un
der the whole four cellars; a never failing spring is near one of
the kitchens; a frame stable and a coach-house with (tables.
From the dwelling house both the North and the East rivers are
plain to the view. Additional improvements have been made
this Spring, the ground has been laid out for pleasure as well as
for utility ; it is provided with variety of orchard and other fruit;
part of the land has also been sown with timothy and clover.
To be fold for certificates of the national debt, which will be re
ceived at the nominal value, Dollar! at Bs. Or for good upland,
even it covered with wood, provided it is situated on the follow
ing rivers,or on crecks as far as navigable,communicating with the
fame, vi?. At the Potowmac above Alexandria,at James River a
bove Richmond, in South-Carolina, about one hundred miles from
the sea fliore, on Santec Edifto or Ponpon river, or on Savannah
river. If not fold at piivate sale before the 15th of May, it will
then on the above terms be disposed of by Public Vendue at the
merchants Coffee-Houfe.—For further particulars enquire of Mr.
Post LNiTt an the premises. A T <wYirk April 10, 179©.ELEGY
ON THE DEATH OP
MISS CAROLINE CAMPBELL,
DAUGHTER OF THE
RIGHT HON. LORD WILLIAM CAMPBELL
(By General Conway.) '
SINCE 'tis the will of all disposing Heaven,
To fcize the boon its kinder hand had given ;
Whether thy friendly fpiritrove,
'Midst the once happy partners of thy love;
(Scenes where thy virtues reign'd, thy talents (hone>
And fond affection made each heart thy own)
Or, bounding fwift, has wing'd its airy flight
To the pure regions of eternal light;
Look down, fair Saint, and Oh, with pity fee,
Where fad remembrance lifts each thought to thee ft
Accept the heaving.sigh, the trickling tear,
The last best offerings of a heart sincere.
What though no costly hccatombs (hould
Nor lengthen'd train in fable pomp succeed ;
Yet (hall the Tweeted flowers thy grave adorn,
Waih'd by the kindliest tears of dewy morn.
There (hall each friend they heav'nly virtues made,
With picus dirge invoke thy gentle (hade ;
Like fragrant incense the (oft breath (hall rife,
And smooth thy passage to thy kindred (kies.
Severely kind, Oh, why did adverse fate
Grant such Yaft bounties with (o scant a date !
Give such sweet fragrance to this (hort liv'd flower,
The virtues of an age, to last an hoflT !
It gave her wit might grace a Mufc't tongue,
The charm of numbers, and the power of song :
Th' angelic touch toftrike the trembling firing)
And tune such notes'as its own seraphs sing.
But Oh ! o'er bounteous, with that sacred art
It gave each nicer movement to the heart;
And her foftbreaft, with strong sensation fir'd,
Felt the keen impulse which those arts infpir'd.
Too great a portion of celestial flame
Strain'd the frail texture of her weaker frame j
The subtle fire too pow'rful fore'd its way
Thro'the foft yielding mould of mortal clay;
As the clear air in chryftal prison pent,
Ok bursts its fair but brittle tenement;
While in the dust the glittering fragments lie*
The purer ether gains its native Iky.
Ere the stern fitters cut the vital thread,
1 saw, and kifs'd heron the fatal bed,
Just as her gentle spirit took its flight,
And her faint eyelids clos'd in endless night:
No strong convulsions shook her parting breath;
No tremors mark'd the cold approach of death :
Her heart still heav'd, with vital spirit warm,
And each foft feature wore its wonted charm
Ah me! in this perplexing maze of fate,
This doubtful, erring, varying reftlcfs state ;
Tho guilt with swelling fail elate (hall (leer,
With pomp and pleasure crown'd, its full career ;
Tho worth like thine no pitying power fhallfave
From sickness, pain, and an untimely grave ;
Yet (lay, rath mortal, nor presume to scan
By thy impcrfc£l rule th' Almighty's plan.
Oh censure not his fovercign, high bcheit,
But proftratc own, Whatever is, is belt.
Judgment's the part of Heaven ; fubmiiHon, thine;
We may lament, but we mull not repine.
Each has his lot, (for so does Heaven ordain)
His dated share of happiness and pain;
And mortals belt its just commands fulfil,
When they enjoy the good, and patient bear the ill.
PREACHING AN EXTRACT.
THE French are certainly ourmafters in pul
pit eloquence ; and I think the obfervatians
of the Biftiop of Cambray, with respect to the
ftrudlure of sermons, are to be preferred to those
of the celebrated Blair. The former objedls a-'
gainst the pradlice of formally laying down a
number of heads, with their attendant subdivi
sions ; the latter is an advocate for it, and com
pares the heads in a sermon to the milepoftsona
journey ; " these," fays, he, " give as much ease
tothe hearer as those to the traveller." This must
i'uppofe the whole discourse painful and laborious
to the hearers,and that therefore, they rejoice
at the little retting places. Can this be compa
tible with true eloquence, which never fatigues
the hearer, and therefore requires no relling
place for him to blow, pant, or get-Jiis breath at"?
Sermons thus fabricated and laid down, accord
ing to Mr. Blair's plan, with seven heads a;fd tcu
horns, will never cease to be ftifF, cold, tedious,
and phlegmatic. It ismuch better for the preach
er to reserve than apprise the audience of the
lieads of his discourse ; for, when once they are
lurnifhed with them,'they begin to. anticipate
•what is to be said upon the fubjedt, and then take
anap tothemfelvcs ; but,where we are not iit once
presented with a chart or draught of the sermon,
the pleasure of novelty, which isconftantly break
ing in upon us, commands attention.
(Trun the rg?a Cr.zett:. )
FURTHER
European Intelligence,
By the kfi Arrivals.
THE trial of Warren Hastings, Esq. has
re-conimenced in VVeftminfter-HalK
The Diflenters, lo called, areabont petitioning
Parliament for a repeal of the Tell Laws—and
are forming " Provincial Meetings," to ad; more
unitedly. It is ihrewdly fufpedted, that other
grievances will l>e discovered, when they once
begin their operations. Conventions, Commit
tees of Correl'pondence, &c. are searching expe
dients. The Hon. Charles Fox, appears the
advocatc of the pretentions of this formidable
body.
Intelligence of the Emperor's death was receiv
ed at Carlton-Houfe the 14th teb. Ihe Kingol
Prussia, it is said, looks up to this exalted station.
One of the Electors, the Duke of Bavaria, being
dead, there are only eight to determine the fuc
ceflion. A treaty is said to be formed between
the King of Prulfia, and the Grand Siegnior.
The King of France in Feb. last, went to the
National Allembly, and addrefled them in a most
masterly speech—in which he deplores the
troubles of the kingdom—and in the most
unequivocal manner lamtions the proceedings
of the aflembly, and the great principles of the
Conttitution, so far as it is compleated.
General D'Alton is removed from his com
mand, and is to be tried for fuffering the revolt in
*he low countries.
An alliance between PruffiaandPoland has,been
announced to the Court of Vienna.
The Patriots have gained the advantage in se
veral adlions with the Iniperialilts.
A deputation from the National Aflembly, with
the Prelident at their head, had waited on the
King and Queen, and were received with great
expi elfions of affection and confidence.
The Turks are preparing to prosecute the war
with vigor. The Sultan is to inarch out with the
prophetic standard.
The conferences for a peace at Jaffy are broken
SPEECH of M. de la FAYETTE.
The following is a translation of the Speech of
M. de la Fayette, to ja certain illustrious cha
racfter.
MY Lor.l),
" Public report accuses you of aspiring to the
.lirotie * You no longer fear the King—perhaps
because you fee that he is almost destitute of pow
er. You may pollibly imagine, after the scene of
Monday (the 9th of Odiober,) when the soldiers,
deaf to the voice of their commanders, united
with an hireling mob, rn order to force me to
head them to Versailles, that I am no longer an
objetfl to be dreaded. I however forwarn you,
that you will find in me your greatest adversary.
No perfotr has flruggled with greater courage
than I have against arbitrary power ; 110 perlon
has bestowed more applause than I have on the
wile attempts of the National Aflembly to efface it,
even to its last vestige-—but as much as I have ex
erted myfelf in the deftrudion of despotism, so
much will 1 still exert myfelf for the preservati
on to the king-os the lawful power which he has
received from the hands of the nation, the secu
rity of which is necessary to him for the mainte
nance of the laws and public tranquility. You
deceive yourfelf if you believe that a flare of ac
tual anarchy will be favorable to your views. I
defy you to derive any advantage, either by usurp
ing the public force, or by dividing and render
ing it useless. The moment that you declare
yourfelf to a mob at hand, all the citizens and
soldiers will flock to my llandard, because the
natives of France will have fortlieir chief a King,
and not an Usurper.
" Without pretending to predidt the catastro
phe of this event, I dare to inform you, that the
iituation of affairs is such, that it can only termi
nate three ways—either I lliall lose my head, or
you will lose yours, or you muit quit the king
dom."
The of , afloniflied, only spoke
tliefe words, " How would you have me adt I"
M. la Fayette said, " Sir, I will tell you. If you
remain, you know my forces and my sentiments.
/amyour enemy, because you are the enemy of
the State. Yon have thought, and you may per
haps still think it in your power to put me to
death—You will then be the King of the mob
for three days, and on the fourth yourdeath will
revenge mine. I therefore think you would a<ft
with mofl prudence in quitting the kingdom."
* The of , was about to inter
rupt him, but M. de la Fayette imposed silence
ANNIVERSARY Of THE FALL OF MAN.
THIS has been celebrated a few days since, by
a denomination of religionists, who as a new
holiday, were the firft who pretended to a dis
covery of the anniversary of the Creation. They
reft the merits of both upon an improvement in
•chronology, have a service adapted to each day,
and fignificantly wear mourning upon the latter'
(From a London Paper.)
416-
NOT E.
HINT TO ELECTORS.
WHEN ancicnt Rome flourifhed, it was ditto
mary, upon the eleiftion of any public offi
cers, for the persons preferring themfclves to be
chosen by the people, to be clad in a white lobe
or garment, denoting the purity of their morals,
whence from the Latin word Candidus (Dihite)vit
derive the word Candidate. Would it not be
better if this matter was a little more attended
to ? And though the Candidate does not wear the
white robe externally, yet for the Electors to hold
it indispensably neceilary that he should have the
inward purity alluded to ?
(From the Concord Herald.)
OF JAMES JI.
JAMES the lid. when he was Duke of York,
made a visit to Milton. In the couife of*
their converfation,tlie Duke alked Milton, "VV he.
" ther he did not think the loss of his fight wa»
<< a judgment upon him for what he had written
" against his father, Charles the lft. Our
immortal Bard made the following reply—" If
" your Highness thinks that the calamities which
" befal us here, are indications of the wrath of
" Heaven, in what manner are we to account
" for the fate of the King, your father ? The
" displeasure of Heaven mult, upon this fuppo
" fition, have been much greater against him
" than me ; for I have only loft my eyes; but
" he has loft his head."
MONTEGO-BAY, (Jamaica,) Dec. 19.
Of the immense quantities of French Cotton
which our neighbours find a vent for in this co
lony, the reader may form foine estimate, when
acquainted, that there is now landing at Mr.
Lindo's wharf, at Kingston, a cargo, which com
pletes the number of 96, confignedto that gentle
man within the present year. Averaging these,
as we may fafely do, at 20001. each, the produce
of that cotton only, will be 192,000!.
NEW BERN, March it.
Yesterday, the Custom-House of the United States in this town
was opened, John Daves, Esq. having received from the Prefidcnt
of the United States a commiflion of colleftot - of this diftrift, and
having been qualified according to law.
.i. - - —
By a gentleman from Hifpaniola, we are in
'ormed that the inhabitants of Cape-Francois
lave declared themselves independent from the
ting and National Afl'embly of France—raifedan
irmed force under the name of " The Patriots
of Cape-Francois"—eltabliflied a House of Legi
slature and appointed a Governor. The firft opera
tion of the new administration has been to declare
their port open to thevefl'els of every nation and
to permit the importatiort of all forts of commodi
ties.
NEW-YORK, APRIL 6.
The Circuit Court of the-United States was yes
terday opened in this city by the hon. John Jay,
Efq ; Chief Justice of the United States—the hon.
William Cushing, Esq. ; aflociate justice, and
the Hon. James Duane, Efq; Judge of the Fe
deral Court for the diftri«si of New-York.
The late mutiny on board the brig Morning-
Star, Capt. Kermit, being cognizable before this
Court, notice was taken of the fame ; and a grand
jury and petit jury ordered to be summoned for
attendance on Monday next, to which day the
Court stands adjourned.
Capt. Taylor, of the brig Atalanta, from Vir
ginia to Lisbon, which arrived at this port on
Sunday last, was unfortunately loft overboard Ii
days after said veflel failed from the Capes on the
outward voyage.
A particular account ps Britilh encroachments on the Ease™
frontiers of the State of Maflachufetts has appeared in the Bfliw®
papers —The British Sheriff from St. Andrews, a fettleinent ontht
Eastern fide of St. Croix River, has served a precept oil a Mr.
Tuttle an inhabitant of Moose Island, near the Weftcrn Shore.
PHILADELPHIA, April I.
This day was landed, from the ship Amsterdam
Packet, a large quantity ofdollarsw The balance
of trade, formerly so much against us, appeara
now to be in our favor. Instead of European ves
sels entering our ports loaded, and returning
with the specie of our country, we now find them
coming to us for lading, and bringing specie to
pay for it.
From the Federal Gazette.
Mr. Brown,
On reading in your paper of Thurdlay an ac "
count of the J hundred guineas wager, between
Col. Tarlton and the Duke of Queenlbury, I
no finall fatisfacflion in drawing a parallel be
tween our illustrious citizens and the great men in
England. While many of these squander their
time and money in cock-fights, jockey-feats, ri
ding on the backs of each other, and buiM>' ; £
dog-kennels for 10,000 pounds, our American
worthies are planning conflitutions for the >/&»
world.
May heaven pveferve us from that corruption,
which mutt: neceflarily spring from too great in
equality in the conditions of men, from g« u V
brainless lords, from droves of hungry begg ars >
from pampered prelates, India nabobs, a"
fvvarms of genteel proft.it ates.
END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.
1