E V E N I N G AD V E R T I S E R.
[NTo. 9 6 of Vol. V.] Thursday, April 3, ! 7S>4 . [Whole No. 5.55.]
f
r
For Sale or Charter,
. r: - , r --v The Shi?
w $ ANDROMACHE,
¥%'.; V . (A:. American bottom)
l4C<r. J ib" Moore, Majkr.
IS 3 ft.'w vdff.'!, about two years old,
burthen ton*, hasunly made three vov
»ge«, and may be <ent to sea at a f'mall ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-fti eet wharf,
iud the terms made known by application to
WHARTON isf LEWIS.
March 2i. dtf
For Norfolk & Fredericks burgb,
SALLY,
John Earl, Master.
A Haunch good veflel, will fail in a few
days. For freight or p flage, apply to the
mailer on board at Chefnut itrpet wharf, ot
tio
JOSEPH ANTHO NT & SON.
March 31.
For Amsterdam,
The new fact-failing, copper*
' JOWL'S bottomed SHIP ,
B ADR'IANA,
mm. K. Fitzpairick, Master.
BUI-uT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will tail with
ajl convenient ipeeu. Ivjr freight or palfoge,
having excellent accommodations, apply pn
board it V/alnutilreet wharf, or to
THOS. "d JOHN KETLJND.
N. B. Pafl*engers will be luded in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794. d{f
ADVERTISEMENT.
To the diftrefled inhabitants of St. Do
mingo nbw in Philadelphia.
The difti buiiou of the money allotted to
them will be made en Wedne day next", at the
i fourVTFcSrcoi hcrt»t "WaTnutandW ater ifreeu
~ iVoin nine o'clock 'till noon, and from thretf'
tr> five afternoon.
Aux Habitants de St- Domingue d-e nues
de toute a Philadelphia.
La Diiliibution dt la iomnie actordec fe fer*
jWecredi pmchaiii, au Coin d'!a Rue lud oucli
oe 1' Eau & De la Rue de Walnut, cntre ticuf
heuicsA. imd j & tie trois &Cinque apres paidi.
The Printers ot Philadelphia, are rc
quettcd to repub-ith the above.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
From Amlierdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz;
GIN in pipes,
A fc<w bales Holland Ducky
Ditto Oznabiags,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glajs ITgre, viz. Tumblers and Murs, •va
riouslfiKa.
Sheathing fop*,
Swedes Iron, square and fiat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakurti, &c. CSV.
rem sale by
THOMAS KETLAND, jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sate—
Aoidd appi\,:atum be matle within a few days j
Wherwift Jhe 'will tuie freight for Amjler
dam.
March t, 1794. d-^tf
TO BEIToIU, ~
AgreeiKy t»the last Will of DEBORJh
MORRIS, deceased,
IhcHoufe N°. 245,
AND
Lot of Ground
On which it Hands, wherein James Bipole
now lives, on the north Tide of Market
ftreet. near Sixth-street.
I™ Home being ig fret 10 inches in
,t, t.f ml and the Lot
■ A** ■*«!>• The whole will be fold Cub
innnm' gr °u d rent Pounds per
p r ? P a y ab ' c '° the contributors to the
JSST 211(1 tb£h
iO*ever. For terms apply to
; _. Samuel Coates,
Jonathan Jones,
Anthonv Morris,
v-am-übl Pa\m L Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
u,„i . Deborah Morris, dee'd.
iVlJlCjl J- 1704, #
' /V 4, €Op 3MT
J
'* ;
The Admirers of Sacred Music
arc rcfpo&fu.ly informed, tbat One or more
Performances from the nvoft approved
Parts of Handel's Works-,
■ ('particularly Irom the Meiruh) will be given
in the week preceding Easter Sunday, (tora
r mon y called Pafßon week)
A every ability in the Instrumental and
Vo«l Line will be called forth on this utcafi
on, there i* no doubt, but that a Libera.l Ugb
, lie will take the present undertaking under
their protection.
N. B- Part of the Profits will be appropri
ated tn the ufi: of" a puhlic cl>ariiy. ,
A particular description of the Place, iq
leftiori,&c. will be given as faon as the necel
farv arrangements can be fettled.
March 29. rftf
IMPORTED "
In the Brig George arid Harriot, .from
Haw re de Grace,
AXD FO» SAL!} BY
Louis Ofrnonty
A »ERPECT
Assortment of Hanging Paper,
high eolourtid and plain.
White fik Stocking*, high drtjfnd aud pot
lip gnglilh fafliion.
The handfpmefl jjijfcial Flowers and Fea
thers.
Some Looking Glass Plates to be fold by the
t "#afe.
A few hampers of Chf»mpaign= wine fix
years old.
ALSO,
Ar\ elegant parcel of
Bearikin Muffs,
And very beautiful Silk Cloaks, wfych on
account of the season will be fold low, and at
a loug cicdii-
LIfC&mSE
42 pipes Madeira wine,
and a few calks,of Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days, " ,
He'will have for fate,
A CINWAP ASSORTMENT pF
Wljjte and Black Laces,
Leg^orolifts, fans and cajnbriclts, claret in
cales, a quantity of window glass well foi Jt
ed of a)] lize , and a few pair of remaikabje
Loo/c/iigGlalles framed, ail arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
! March ?2- drf
J Excellent CLARET,
J In hogfceads and in caies of 50 bottles each.
ALSO)
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hegftieads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. Nt, South Front itreet.
Jan. 8, drf
the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
tbe Neutrality of tie United States.
All commissions or authorization* tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to, the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventpfe 16th, second jjear of
the French Republic, one and indivifihle
(March 6 th, 1 yw, x>. ,s.)
Tlje Minister Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. jh. FAUCHET.
The Editors of ne\frfpapers within the
United States, afe requelted to republilh the
foregoing notice. d
TO BE SOLD,
And entered upon thc fii.ft.oi May>
The noted Eft ate, called
yobnjon Hall:
Tying in the Moba wk country, stale of New
Yo'k, formerly thefeat of Sir William John
fan, coniaining about -seven hundred acres of
land, which is of the very best quality ; tpge
iher with the (lock, and farming uienfcls. The
buiklings ate large and convenient, and lit fnr
a gentleman's feat. The .payments will be
easy, on good (ocurily. For fuithsr particulars
| enquire of George Meicalf, .Esq. Qn the pre'mif
fs, of $il ? » Talbot, Effl. at Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Brothers, in New York, or
of the fubrcriber in Providence.
Jabez Boiuen.
Philad. March t>6 fnw&lim
; The following Certifi
eaie of the funded three per Cent Stock of the
Doipifttc Debt of the United States ftandi-ag-o*
i books.ot the Treasury of tbr faj<i tiojud
» i States, in the names of Donna Id ans BurioA of
- I.ondop, merchants, and signed by Joleph
Nourfe, Register of said Treasury, tp wit
\ No. 4476, daied 24 , h August ifg* (or 20.50
► j cents was tranfrailted from Len
» Pelpr > PiulHvffey, i^r,
bourKi for New Y or k } and has been loft.—
Ihe feubfenber intending to apply t 0 the Trea
sury of the United States to-have the fame re-
defue* ail per fogs who are ioterefced in
the (aid certificate, to make tb?ir ©bie&aaus
thereto, ;f any they have.
Francis Macy,
Philad. March tj.
NORRIS. COURT,
Rack Qi the New Lijrvy, between Ctofout
and Waliu i,Streets.
George Rutter,
TD ESPEC PFULLYi nfornis his friends and
**• the pifyltc in general, that he continues
carrying 0 n tlie business of .
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL &TES,
tor doors or wi„dow-(hutters,dont in tie most
mi ? naer » with dispatch.
re«iv!d S cou " t,; y VHI t>e th^fuUy
recet ved, and duly attended to.
December 3p. dtf
Writing ~
Done in the moil elegant manner, and after
the firft matters ; likewise,
Fire Buckets
Pajatsd and finifted at tji* ftgftfft notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norm's Court, back of the New Library,
bet we< * Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth
March 4. . '
(its
FOR SALE,
BY MATiiEW CAREY, No. 118 ,
Mai Atft'Sjreet,
An Jjfiay on Slavery*
to in a new poi„ t 0 f „i, v
Us effifis on n „,at s , indufi and (he ' V
Joe,cl,. So«,eiaft, calculation, ar/effcred
1° P iT !l V ai P"""> «be much more
01 Jim, ■ thM wwlf i
I Ch, powerful and haf.py, m prd p 01llon as lllc
shoring people enjoy the lru.it,, of their own
1 i and the concluf.on, that
, (lavery is impolitic as well as urtjujl.
fVflSjCmi.
rebriiary i - dt f
For Sale b) the Subscribers,
Muscovado sugar in i&ds.&btksi.
Hyfcji »d Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wiues, of Ijiperjftr quality, jij pi-p^s
q 3n i? l l ai ? r cafts
opanilh Indigo.
80/ ton Beef, in laurels.
And a fmafl invoice of Muslins.
NALBRO' & JOHN FRA2HJR,
No. 164, South Fropt-llreet.
March 8. fmw4W
The Profits wifivg from the fallai/jing pubH
cation are for the benefit of the Poor.
Just publiftied, printed by R. AMcen and
Son, and fold by J.Crnkfhank, W. Young
i . Dobfon, aod cthe otiier Boo^fellers,
MINUTES
P,F TJJE
Proceedings of tlx Committee,
Appointed on flte 14th by
the Citizens oi Philadelphia,
Liberties, andthe Diitrifl of Sootbwark,
to attend to and alleviate the fufferings of
the aiflifted with the Maligtrant Fever,pre
vsletit, in tlie City and its vicinity.
WITH an appendix,
CONTAINING
A lift of persons admitted into tbe Hofpi
tai at Bulh'hill, fliewing the times of their
admission, jdeathaoddifcharge.
Number of Hou{ct ; U«{»tJis, &c. in tte
refprfUw ftreetn,. alley*, court;, in the
City of Philadelphia, Northern Liberties, and
Diftrift of Sootbwark.
A' Ivft of the Intements in <4ie Burial
Ktnunits ju tiie city of J»hiladelplija, Northern
Liberties, and I)■ li'■ ict of Sa.y^h, wiih a
meteorologicalaccon.nl of the weather.
A fumniary of donations in ca(h and provi
("mm;, received from sundry persons and pli
:o«, for the uf;of t'he poor und afflicted.
AptilJ.
♦ ■ L ' 1 ■ ■ -■ ■ mm
\ CONGRESS.
[. '
IN SEN J TE,
Friday, March 21 ft, 1794,
The bill sent from tfce Houfp of Rcprf
fen thrives for concurrence, entitled " a;i
ad to provide for the erecting and repair
ing of arsenals and magazines and for o
the'r purposes," was lead the third time.
Refolwd, That this bill pass with a
mendrrtents.
Ordered, That the Secretary, define the
concurrence of the House of lleprefenta
tives in the amendments to this bill.
Mr. \ ining reported from the commit
tee on enrolled bills, that they had this
day, laid before the Prefidept of the Uni
te 4 States for his approbation—The bill
entitled " an ast making appropriations
for the support of the military eftabii/h.
ment of the United States, for the year
one th'pufand seven hundred and ninety
four"—The bill entitled " an ast to prohi
bit the carrying on the slave from
the United States to any foreign plate
pr eountry,'' and the bill entitled " aij
ast to provide 3 naval armament."
Mr. Llvermprc from the committee to
whom was referred the bill to authorize
the 1 resident or the United States in cer
tain cases, to alter the for holding a
f?ffion of Congress, reported amendments.
Ordered, That the amendments be
printed for the iafe of the Senate.
The report of tie committee to whoit)
was referred the bill, entitled, " an ast li
miting the tityie for presenting claims for
destroyed certificates of certain descrip
tions," >vas read.
Ordered, That the fconfideration there
of be ppftponed until Monday next.
The Senate resumed the confideratioq
of the motion made on the 18th instant,
that it be
" Refo|ved, That a committee be ap
pointed t<? examine into and report on thj?
parafticability of obtaining statements of
the principles on which the accounts pjf
I the' individual States with the United
States have been fettled,, and a statement
of the several credits allowed in the said
settlement,"
On motion,
To'adopt thfs resolution—
It palfcd in the negative. Yeas—£
Nays—ls.
The yeas and nays being required hy(>ne
fifth of the Senators preient—
Those who voted in the affirmative, are,
MefTrs. Edwards, Hawkins, Martin, Mon
roe, Potts a,nd T?yJ or.
Thoie who voted in the negative, are*
MefTrs. Bradford, Bradley, Brown, Ca
bot, Ellfworth, Foster, Frelinghuyfen,
Q,unn, Jackson, Izard, Langdon, Li
ve rmore, Mitchell, Morris, Rofcinfun and
. Strong.
A meflage from the House of Repre
by Mr, their clerk :
" Mr. President—The House of Re.
preff.ntat.lveß have pafled the bill sent from
the Senate for cpacurrence, entitled*
Ap ast allowjug to Major general L&
FayfU.e hi? pay and emoluments, while
in the feivice of the United §tates."
" TJie Houfc of Representatives have'
pasTed a bill, entitled, "an fer the re
lief of Stephen Pajanqye," in whieji they
desire the concurrence of the .Senate. And
he withdrew.
The bill last mentioned wag read tlv?
firll time.
Ordered, That this Jjil] pass to the fe
cppd wading. 1
On motion,
" That a committee be appointed to
coqfider and report in what plainer the du
ties of .the office of a diftrift judge (hall
be dificharged, during the inability of the
judge ef a diftrift"—
Ordered, That the .motion he referred
to Mr. Ellfworth, Mr. Strong and Mr.
Langdon, to consider and report thereon
to the Senate.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock,
on Monday morning-.Monday, March 24.
Kenfey Johns, Esq. appeared and pro
duced credentials of an ajSpoirftment by
the Governor of the state of Delaware as
a Senator for the United States, which
were read.
Whereupon
It was moved, that they be referred to
the consideration of the committee of elec
tions, before the said Kenfey Johns (hould
be permitted to qualify, who are directed
to report thereofl ; and it pafled in the
affirmative—Yeas 13 —Nays 12.
The yeas and nays being required by
one-fifth of the Senators present—
Those who voted in the affirmative, are
Meflrs. Bradley, Brown, Burr, Edwards,
Gunn, Hawkins, Jackson, Langdon, Li
vermore, Martin, Monroe, Robinson and
Taylor.
Those who voted in the negative, are,
Meflrs. Bradford, Cabot, Ellfworth, Fos
ter, Frelinghuyfen, Izard, Mitchell, Mor
ris, Potts, Rutherford, Strong and Vi
ning.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Lambert, in absence of
Mr. Beckley, detained by sickness.
" Mr. President—The House of Re
presentatives have pafled a bill, entitled,
" an ast to provide for placing buoys on
certain rocks oft' the harbor of New-Lon
don, and in Providence river," in which
they desire the concurrence of the Senate.
" The President of the United States
hath notified the House of Representa
tives, that he did on the 21ft instant ap
prove and sign th? act, entitled, " an ast
making appropriations for the support of
the military establishment of the United
States, for the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-four ; and on the 22&
instant, the ast, entitled, " an ast to pro
hibit the cairying on the slave trade from
the United States to any foreign place or
country." And he withdrew.
The memoi ial of a number of citizens
of the state of South-Carolina was present
ed and read, Complaining of the system
continued and puriued in the capture, de
tention and condemnation in Britifli ports,
of a number of vessels with their cargoes,
the property of the citizens of the United
States.
Ordered, That this memorial lie for
consideration.
The Vice-President laid before the Se
nate the report of the Attorney-General,
on the memorial of the French inhabitanti
if Galliopolis, and it was read.
Ordered, That this report and the pa
pers referred to be committed to Mr. Burr,
Mr. Taylor, and Mr. Ellfworth, to con
sider and report thereon to the Senate.
The Senate resumed the second reading
of the bill to authorize the President of
the United States in certain cases to alter
the place for holding a session of Congress.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the
third reading.
Mr. Jackson gave notice that he should
to morrow, move for leave to bring in a
bill to make provilion for the widow and
orphan children of Robert Forfyth, who
was killed in the service of the United
States. v
The bill sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled "an
a£l for the relief of Stephen Paranque,"
was read the second time.
Ordered, That this bill be referred to
Mr. Cabot, Mr. Ellfworth, and Mr. Mor
ris, to conlider and report thereon to the
Senate
The bill sent from the House of Repre
sentatives for concurrence, entitled " an
ast for placing buoys on certain rocks off
the harbor of New-Londoo, and in Pro
vidence river, was read the firft time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
The Senate adjourned until 11 o'clock
to morrow morning.
Tuesday, March 25th; 1794.
Mr. Vining reported from the commit
tee on enrolled bills, that they had exam
ined the bill, entitled "an ast allow
ing to Major-General La Fayette his
pay and emoluments while in the service
of the United States," and that it was
duly enrolled.
The bill to authorize the President of
the United States in certain cases, to al
ter the place for holding a session of Con
gress, was read the third time and being
amended,
Resolved, That this bill pass, that it
be engrossed, and that the title thereof
be, an ast to authorize the President of
the United States in certain cases to alter
the place for holding a feJlon of Con
gress."
Ordered, That the Secretary desire the
concurrence of the House of Represen
tatives iti this bill. .>
The bill lent from, the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled " nil
ast to provide tot placing buoys on cer
tain rocks off the harbor of New-London,
and in Providence river," was read the
second time.
Ordered, That this bill be referred to
Mr. Jackson, Mr. Langdon, and Mr.
Foster, to consider and report tlmreon to
the Senate.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Lambert. 1
" Mr. President—The Speaker of the
House of Repreientatives having signed
an enrolled bill, i am directed to bring it
to the Senate, for the figuature of the
Vice-Prefident.
" The House of Representatives disa
gree to the firft amendment of the Senate
to the bill, entitled " an ast to provide
for the erecting and repairing of arsenals
and magazines, and for other purposes—
a(k a conference on the subject matter of
all the amendments to the said bill, and
have appointed managers at the said con
ference on their part."—And he with
drew.
The Vice-President signed the enrolled
bill, entitled " an ast allowing to Major
General La Fayette his pay and emolu
ments, while in the service of the United
States," and it was delivered to the com
mittee on enrolled bills, to be laid before
the President of the United States," for
his approbation.
The Senate proceeded to consider the
resolution of the House of Representa
tives, disagreeing to the firft amendment
of the Senate to the bill, entitled " an ast
to provide for the erecting and repairing
of arsenals and magazines, and for other
purposes," and a (king a conference on the
lubjeft mattei of all the said amendments
—Wherenpon,
Resolved, That the Senate agree to the
proposed conference, and that Mr.- Gunn,
Mr. Bradley, and Mr. Ellfworth be ma
nagers at the fame, on the part of the
Senate.
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the Houfc of Representatives therewith.
The following written meflage was re
ceived from the President of*the United
States, by Mr. Dandridge, his Secretary.
United States, 25th Match, 1794.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
of the House of Representatives.
The two letters, which I now forward
to Congress, were written by a consul of
the United States ; and contain informa
tion, which will probably be thought to
require some pecuniary provision.
G. WASHINGTON.
The mefiage and papers therein referred
to were read.
Ordered, That they lie for considera
tion.
The consideration of the leport of the
committee on the bill, sent from the House
of Representatives for concurrence, enti
tled, " an ast limiting the time for pre
senting claims for destroyed certificates of
certain descriptions," was resumed, and it
wa« agreed that the bill be amended ac
cordingly.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the third
reading.
(To be continued. J
Congress of the United States.
Houje of Representatives
March 28.
Proceedings of Congress, relative to the
Embargo.
A meflage from the President of the U-
nited States.
United States, 28th March, 1794
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of the
House of Representatives.
In the execution of the Reiblution of
Congress, bearing date the 26th of March
1794, and imposing an embargo I have
requested the governors of several states
to call forth the force of their militia, if
it should be ncceflary for the detention of
veflels. This power is conceived to be in.
cidental to an embargo.
It also deserves the attention of Con
gress how far the clearances from one dif
trift to another, under the law as it now
(lands, may give rife to evafidn of the em
bargo. As one security, the eollcch>r„
have been inftrufted to refufe to reeeiv
the surrender of coasting licences for th
purpose of taking out registers, and to
require bonds from rcgiftered veflels>
bound from one diftrift to another, for
the delivery of the cargo within the Unit
ed States. ;
It is not understood, that the resoluti
on applies to coafling vessels, although
their occupations lie generally in parts
beyond the United States. But without
further reltrictions, there is an opportuni
ty of their privileges being uled as means
of eluding the embargo.
All armed veifels poffefling public com
millions from any foreign power (letters of
marque excepted) are considered as not li
able to the embargo.
fhefe circumstances are transmitted to
Congress for their consideration.
Go: WASHINGTON.
The said menage and papers were read,
&c'ommitted to Mr. Dexter, Mr. Murray,
and Mr. Goodhue.
Mr. Dexter from the committee to
whom was referred the above message of
the Prelident of the United States, the
next day reported the following resolution,
which was agreed to by the House.
Resolved by the senate and house of
representatives of the United States of
America in congress assembled, that dur
ing the continuance of the present embar
go, no registered veflel, having on board
goods, wares and merchandize, shall be
allowed to depai t from one part of the U
nitcd States, to any other port within the
fame, unless the mafic;-, owner, consignee
or factor, shall fiilt give bond, with one
or more sureties, to the collector of the
diftrift from which she is about to depart,
in a sum of double the value of the veflel
and cargo, that the said goods, wares or
merchandize, shall be relanded in some
port of the United. Stales, which bond,
and also a certificate from tlie collector of
thediftrift where the fame may be relanded,
shall, by the colleitoi s refpedtively, be
transmitted to tfcr secretary of the treafu||
ry.—That the several collectors be prohi
bited from granting a clearance to any fo
reign fliip or vessel, in any cafe whatever,
during the continuance of the present em
bargo ; and all armfd veflels, poffefiinf
public commifTions from any foreign pow
er (lettersof marque excepted,) are to be
considered as not liable to the embargo.
A message from the senate by Mr. Otis
their fesretary, informed the house, that
the senate have agreed to a resolution,
to carry into morej;omplete effect, the re
solution directing an embargo,~to VvTiTcK
they desire the concurrence of this honfe.
The said resolution was conlidered and
disagreed to.
Another message from the senate,. by
Mr. Otis was received, which announced
that the senate have agreed to the resoluti
on of the house, to carry into more com
plete effetl the resolutions directing an em
bargo.
Foreign Intelligence.
RECEIVED BY THE
BRITISH JANUARY PACKET.
(con'tinued.)
PARIS, December 31.
On the 19th instant the Count and Count
ess of Affcld and her daughter, a child nine
yeareold, entered the Abbey a prison, in or
der to be detained there as hostages fo>- the
French prisoners, who are in the power of
the Aultrians; on the 21ft, Mr. Schneider,
public accuser to the Revolutionary Tribu
nal at Strafljurgh, was conducted into the
fame prison.
On the 25th. Dreflay, Cordier, Bonneiul,
the Widow Gravaud, Germain, Belkvau,
and Dufour entered the prison of the COll
-
The Revolutionary tribnnal has condem
ned to death La Folic, for fraudulent actions
committed in the furnilhitig of cloaths des
tined for the armies ; Morin, valet decham
bre to Madame du Barry, for, having carried
on a correspondence with the enemies of the
Republic ; La Bondie, commiflary of the
n«vy, and the Widow Gravaud, native of
Berlin, for the fame reason.
COURTRAY, Dec. 31.
The report of the evacuation of Toulon
by the Allies was received here two or three
days ago. We are here at present very
quiet. It docs not appear that there are any
troops on the French frontiers between Ypre»
and Tournay. On the other parts of the
Frontier they do not exceed 6000 ; nor does
it appear that even Lille contains many at
present. It is supposed that they are all drawn
off to the fide of Normandy.
From Mons down to Nieuport, we have
a strong cordon of excellent troops.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
Btcmhr, 1(1.
A letter from Carriere, Representative of
the people, dated Nantz, December 14, con
firmed the details of the letter from Savegnay;
and added, that a single Rebel would not
have escaped, if General Maulin had not
given paflpor,ts to some of them. This Ge
neral is plit under arreit.
The Officer who was the bearer of this
letter, kid, that before he left Nan-z, the
country people had brought in 500 Rebels,
who had thrown away their arms and implor
ed pardon. This was refufed, and they were
all put to death. On the road frotn,Nantz
to Ancenis, he met many ~
volunteers and country people, who were
leading along Rebels they had taken in thS
forefts. At Ancenis, the Adminillrative Bo
dies, told him, that more than 600 had been
brought in there the fame day; 800 were
brought to Angers ; and a great number to
Saumur, of whom the Reprefcntatives of the
the people would rid the earth by ordering
them to be thrown into the Loire. The num
ber of the killed and taken in the late actions,
amounts to 30,c00.
Barrere, in the name of the Committees of
Public Welfare and General Safety, made- a
report on the mode of deciding expeditioufly
on the charges against persons under arrefl,
The Conven ion ordered it to be printed, and
repealed the Decree which direifled that a
Commission chosen of the Committees of
Public Welfare and General Safety lhould
decide on such charges.
December 31.
The Public Functionaries in the depart
ment of Correre, had been the chief authors
and promoters of the infurredticn in that
quarter. They have over-run the whole coun
try, to preach a counter revolutionary cru
sade, and, under pretence of the liberty of
religious worship, to infligate all the inhabi
tants to take up arms, and to aflemble at the
found of the tocsin, in order to fall upon the
great conimunes, and exterminate the Pro
teliants, who, they fold, intended to take
from them, with their Priests, their sacred
peflels and their holy religion. These mifcre
ints have now expiated their crimes.
Representative ot the People, Lancr, wrote
Tom Maymas, that they had all been guillo
:ined.
" The Tribunal," he added, " fulfils its
luty with dignity; other conspirators are
low on their trial, and will be judged with
>ut delay; none of them fiial] escape our
efearches ; every day throws new light on a
lark and vast plot, projedleJ by Priests. I
lave just learnt that many of them, difgu'fed
is poor people, over-run the country, in order
o light up the torch of fanaticifm, and to
nnounce an impending famine, as a vifita
ion of God. lam going to carry the torch
>f truth into those regions, and to chace from
heir haunts and caverns, all those wonder
fj-pr. s of
Ladozere an< _
refuge there." Referred to the Committee of
Public Welfare.
Maiitte informed the Convention of the
gallant behaviour of a farmer in La Vendee.
This brave Republican fell into the hands of
the rebels, who endeavored to cut down the
Tree of Liberty. " No, (said he) I have
myfelf planted this Tree ; it is dearer to me
than my existence, I will rather die than do
it the Icaftharm." At these words he was
killed by the banditti, but his last words were,
Vive la Liberie, and his last sigh, a wish of
fuccei's and prosperity to the Republic. In
ferticn into the annals of Civifm.
VIENNA, Dec. 16.
In the firft audience granted on Tues
day last by the Emperor to the Marquis
Luchefini ; this mimfter declared, on the
part of the King of Prufiia, that his ma
jesty would continue, with redoubled zeal,
to support the operations of the coalesced
powers again ft the common enemy. The
minister then demanded, and immediately
obtained, a free pafiage through Bohemia,
■for some Pruflian regiments which were to
join the army on the Rhine.
According to the last advices from Sem
len, the commandant of that frontier em
ployed all his attention to flop the progress
and the communication of an epidemic dis
order which prevailed in Servia, and chief
ly at Belgrade, where five persons are al
ready dead 'of the plague.
In the famous church of St. Dennys,
the commifiioners of the National Conven
tion discovered a hundred veflels of agate,
three score services for the altar, all of
pure gold, enriched with diamonds, sap
phire, emeralds, and other precious stones
of confiderahi'e value; exclusive of which
they discovered an Unicorn's horn of an
immense value, with fourteen unpoliftied
peai is, and a cardinal's cap, valued at a
bundled thousand livres, be (ides mapy o
ther ornaments, and ecclesiastical appenda
ges of inferior estimation,
LONDON,. Jannarv 4.
By letters from the rnofl
pei funs at Manchester, we understand that
the Eioufe of Taylor, & Co. in that town,
is in want of a thousand more weavers
than it can procure—a convincing proof
that the war has not a?Fe&ed the tnnnu
fafhires of this country in the manner that
the Jacobins wvuld wish tp represent.
♦w
The enemies of government seem now
to content themselves with general reflecti
ons against war, thereby wishing to excite
a discontent against the present—bat the
people of this country are not now. to be
told, that the war in which we are at pre*
sent engaged differs in its principle from
every other that we were ever embarked
in : It is a war for the preservation of our
lives, and liberties, our property, and our
religion ; and upon the issue will depend
the future permanent happiness or misery
of this country.
• According to Mr. May's calculation,
founded on authentic documents, the
■whole number of Indians in North Ame
rica, amount to little more than 60,000.
After mentioning thjt NappEr lal 0
Ireland, and Mr. Cooper of Mauchefter,
were in Philadelphia ; a Jacobin print thus
ex. laims, « This is one of the blessed effedH
of perfecting political opinions ! ihe
verv f.ime remark, with similar jultice,holds
rood in refpeft to George Barrington and D'
Arcy Wentworth. They are virttms of jtif
tice, for atTerting the rights of man in op
position to the letter and l'pirit of the law.
One of the charges brought against Le
Brun, the late minister for foreign affairs
in F.ance, was for having christened one
of >>is daughters, in the beginning of last
year, by the name of ViSoire Dumourier
[emappe. From this circumstance, a
proof of his intimacy and conspiracy with
Dumourier was deduced.
He exhibited great presence of mind
on his trial ; and when sentence was pro
no J need against liim, he exclaimed, " I
have supported the Republic ; I now die
for the republic.''
The account of the Brest fleet being
out, appears very queftionablo. It luch
had been the cale, we mufthavs heard of
it through many different channels; and
the report rests upon the aecount given by
one vessel onlv.
Tne Turkiffi Arnbaflador has taken an
house in the Adelphi, from Doctor Tur
ton, for one year, from the ill of janua
ary, at 2001. a year. On Saturday even
ing he signed the leases ; he writes a re
markabiy elegant Italian hand, and signs
bis name
Hyfuf, Adgiah
Effcndi, Anjbafs, de la Sublime Porte,
His Bankers are John and Peter Robin
son, Throgmorton-ftreet, who are bound
for every thing in his money dealings.
< £kis highness has 70001. a year from the
Porte, besides an immense private fortune
of his own.—He has ordered a coach and
a vis-a-vis.
The Turkey Company are to give a
grand dinner, at the London Tavern, on
Wednesday next, in honor of the arrival
of the Ottoman Ambassador.
Last week the Dutchefsof York took
t'nc divcrfion of Stag hunting, with the
king's hounds, accompanied by the Prince
of Wales, who held the loading rein of
her Royal Highnefs's hunter during the
cliafe.
January 6.
Extract of a letter from Madrid, December
19th.
" The auxilliarv corps of Portugufe troops
landed the 10th inft. at Rosas, to the number
of 5500 men, and have cantoned themselves
in the environs of that place ; we do not yet
know, however, whether they will all join
the Spanilh army, or part of them go to
■ Toulon. A reinforcement of Spanilh troops
w alio expe&ed here from Malaga, from
whence they were tofet off the 28th of OA.
Gen. Ricardos, having failed in his attempt
cn Perpignan, has been unable to maintain
himfclf in Roufillon, and has with his army
fallen back towards our frontiers, and has
abandoned all the places which he was master
of, except the fortrefs of Bellegarde. Both
armies are now entrenching themselves. This
campaign has colt the Spaniards, it is fuppo
/ed, 1000 men, besides 10.000 who are ill in
the hospitals. The French have also fuffered
greatly, elpecially by desertion."
s
EAS7 INDIES.
From the Oriental Star, Printed at Calcutta.
The Phoenix, Captain Moore, just return
ed from the N. W. Coast of America, brings
the firftfubftantiated accounts which we have
heard of the loss of the Lark, Capt. Peters,
which veffej was fitted out from this port
some years ago, at the commencement of
those enterprizing expeditions to Nootka
Sound, which have since experienced such
various fhccefs, and caused so serious an-al
tercation between England& Spain. The Lark
was loft on Beerings Illand, off Kamfchatka
and several of the crew got on (hore: but
owing to the hard (hips they underwent from
the inclemency of the climate, and want of
necellaries, only four survived, who were re
lieved by a Ruffian vessel which carried them
to Siberia, where they have met with the
moll humane and attentive treatment from
the Ruffians. They are two Portuguese and
two Lascars, and are still residing at Irkufk,
in Siberia.
The Phoenix found in Beals harbor a Por
tuguefs Snow, commanded by Capt. Viana,
oi Macoa, which had wintered on the N. .
Coalt. The former Captain had been killed
by the natives at Port Mulgrave, who had
attempted to board the vessel.
An American Ihip had left a man to learn
the language and trade with the natives.
Captain Moore humanely supplied him with
such ne:effaries as he could spare.
In a Bay near the Green Islands, a Ruffian
Captain Beramhoff, who commanded a fqita
dron of boats, came on board the Phoenix,
and informed Captain Moore, that he came
from Kodiac, and was cruizing along the
Coast in quest of the natives, for the purpose
of civilizing them, according to orders from
the Emprel's. He had also received orders
to treat the Englilh with the utmost civility :
in consequence of which, he oifered Captain
Moore every afliftance in his power to afford.
The Ruffians were erecting some works in
Cook's River. The commander mentioned
that there had been no trade between Russia
and China for fix years, and that they got
all their tea from England: that article fold
in Siberia so high as nine roubles per pound.
FALMOUTH, January 5.
The Portland, from Halifax, arrived late
last night in 15 days passage. She has not
been at New York, as they had intelligence
at Halifax, it would be unfafe, from the
cruizers laying off the Hook, for the express
purpose of intercept ng the packet from Eng
land ; of course Ihe has brought no -mail
j from New-York.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 3.
Spirited ipeafures were pursued last week
by the citizens of Baltimore to carry the
embargo into prompt and full effccft.
The Baltimore Intelligencer of Monday
last, fays, "It is with much pleafm e we
learn, that the Executive of the United
States, determined to submit no longer to
the cruel persecutions of our citizens sow
detained in the Britilh islands, have forward
ed to the governor of Jamaica, a spirited de
mand of Captain Barney and others, and
that a pilot-boat tiled from ijiis port very
early yesterday morning for that purpose.'*
To the Senate and House of Ueprelentattves
oi the General Assembly of the Common
wealth of Pennlylvania.
XJentlemtn,
IT is proper to inform you, that on the
m;til Of February last, I issued a warrant in
favor of the Prelident and Directors of the
Bank of Pennsylvania for .seventy thousand
dollars, and that this day I hive issued ano
ther warrant in their favor, for the film of
fifty-one thousand two hundred and forty
five dollars ; which sums complete the pay
ment of the loan borrowed from the Bank to
discharge the amount of the State fubferip
tion to the capital ftoci of that institution.
THOMAS MIFFLIN.
Philad. 13th March 1794.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 1.
Capt. Cummins, arrived here yesterday,
failed from St. George's, Grenada, the
9th March : He informs us, that accounts
had been receeivea there on the 7th, by
the Lady Hammond, from Martinique
that the Britilh Batteries were to open cn
Fort Bourbon on the morning of the Bth:
That a series of heavy rains had retarded
their operations, and that about fifty of
the Britilh troops had beer, killed in the
lines by Ihells from the Fort—but that it
was completely in veiled.
Capt. Cummins also informs us, that
the port of Grenada is open until the id of
May, for every article that can be admitted
in Britilh bottoms from the United States
with permiflion to enter for exportation,
any thing they may have inadmissible, and
carry it away with them.
Capt. Cummins, has favored us with
Grenada newspapers, to the 7th of March,
from which we have copied the following
und«r the Grenada head :
St.GEORGE'S (Gre.) March 7.
The Ihip Mary, Capt. Molyneux, arri
ved here from Martinique on Monday
morning. When the Mary failed, which
was on Saturday, every thing was quiet
at St. Pierre, and the mod perfeit order
and regularity eftablilhed among the inha
bitants, who under the protection of the
Britilh arms, and the equitable command
of Col. Myers, enjoyed a state of security,
to which they had long been strangers. —
The arms of the inhabitants were demand
ed, and delivered up to the Englilh, who
deposited them 'in a magazine appropria
ted for that purpose. The batteries, which
had been carried 011 with great expedition
considering the immense labour they re
quired, were completed and mounted with
upwards ot an hurtoied heavy cannon ana
mortars, to act against Fort Bourbon ;
but their fire had not commenced, not
a lingle (hot or (hell having been thrown
into the Fort. Sunday night, was the
time appointed for the cannonade to be
gin, and it was the general opinion, that
the place could not hold out more than 48
hours. In the whole of the arduous and
fatiguing fetvice of erccting the batteries
and carrying the guns from the store-ships,
for a considerable distance thro' a very
difficult country, impeded by the enemy's
fire from the Fort, thefpirit of emulation
pervaded every different corps of the Bri
tish forces, and the mod perfect good uo
derftanding and harmony reigned among
the whole. The Midshipmen who com
manded the Gun Boats, have all been pro
moted to the rank of Lieutenants by the
Admiral, in conlideration of their good
conduit.
A confirmation of the above account I
was received by the sloop Speedwell, that
failed from Martinique on Sunday after
noon, with the additional circumftauce,
that Belgarde had lurrendered with two
hundred and fifty of his people, on condi
on u? his being sent to America ; having
been repulsed in ah attempt he made on a
party of the English who were landing
(lores for the siege, his retreat to his form
er pod wag cut off, by a (kilful evolution,
and the gates of Fort Bourbon were shut
agnrnll him. In this fituatipn several of
his party escaped to the woods, a number
were killed, and the remainder laid down
their arm*, Capt. Drew of the 45th par
ticularly diftinguilhed himfelf on the occa
fnm.
Accounts are' received of the arrival of his
royal highness Prince Edward at Barbadoes,
and of his proceeding immediately trom
thence to join the army at Martinique.
Gapt. Neil, of the ship Diligence, arrived
yesterday from St. Euftatia, hai alio favored
us with the St. Euftatius Ga2ette, of the 7th
March; the following under the Basseterre
head, is the only article of intelligence we
find in it.
BASSETERRE, Feb. 18.
Extract of a letter from Montl'errat, Febru
ary 2j, 1794.
" The Lovely Mary left Roseau on Sunday
lift, the Sea Flower cutter arrived that morn
ing and brings accounts that St. Pierre was
taken by storm the 1 oth irilt. with the lot's Of
Britifli troops. The Patriots had 570
men put to the bayonet; they have embarked
fur Africa 2000 People of colour, and 700
whites for St. Maioes. The Marleiiles priva- ,
teer of 28 guns and 80 fail of Americans were
captured there. The French made a sortie
from Fort Bourbon with 400 men and not a
man of them returned. Coioriel CVmpbell
is dead of his wounds; it is supposed they
will hold out about 20 days longer."
Extract frem the Log Book of the Brig
Nancy, aarived here yesterday from Gr
nada.
March 13. Was spoke by a Brit'fh pri
vateer sloop, which fuffered us to proceed
without examination.
14th Parted through St. Euftatia Roads,
and law a number of veflels there. At 11
A. M. on the fame day was boarded by
the British privateer schooner Nancy, of
Tortola,' Newmau Atwater, mailer, and
permitted to proceed—met with very
ltrong northerly winds and bad weather,
which induced me to bear away for Sail
Rock Paiiage, which I pafled the 16th
at 11 P. M.
18th. Came up with and spoke the
schooner Polly, of Portland, from St.
Thomas's, bound to Bolton, out three
days.
20th. In lat. 26,41, long. 70,.36, at
mid-night, was brought to and boarded
by the privateer sloop Dove, of Bermuda,
Jofiah Bafden, master, who behaved with
much civility and permitted me to pro
ceed. ,
27th. In lat. 38, 15, long. 72, o, spoke
the Eliza, from New-York to Jamaica,
out three days.
BOURDEAUX, Jan. 6.
" There is news from Toulon, informing
us, that fmce the qapture of that place, there
has gone into that port by mistake ; one'Eng
lilh 74, and between 60 and 70 fail ot, Eng
lish and Spanilh merchantmen with provi
sions, arms, &c. which are made prizes of."
BALTIMORE.
By Captain M'Lauchlan, commander of a
brig arrived here in 55 days from Gibraltar,
we learn that between the ift and T4th cf
February last., 19 Algerine cruiztrs pafled
the Straits into the Atlantic ocean.
PORT OF PHIL AD ELI HI A.
ARRIVED.
Brig Florida, Ferreday, returned
Sloop B-tfey, Floyd, ' Virginia
CLEARED
Ship Apolla, Keown, Chailefton & Savan
nah
Sloop Nancy, Bowen, Showbill
The fallowing lift of American, vessels ly
ing in St. George's, Grenada, March
9> 1794, Was given for publication by
Captuiri Cummins, of the brig Nancy ; ' '
Brig Hope, of York-to*n, Geo. Mickle
Nancy of Portland, * Paul Huffey
Neptune, of New-Yoik, Jas. Jacobs
P«ggy, of Alexandria, Jas. M'Ktnzie
Naocy, ofPartf. N. H. Jos. Brown
Peace, of Richmond, V. Wm. Colley
Dolphin, of Kennebec, Geo. Fish
Sclir. Betsey, of Portsmouth, Jes. Drifcci
Abigail, of Boilon, Brrnaby Smith
Sukey, of Salem, Robei t Se'don
Sloop Sukey, of Gloucester, Jos. Lulkin
Polly, of Boston, Geo- Stetson
George, of Port f. V. Robert Elliot
RoJannah, of N. Caf. Mas. J. Gttddard
We h ear a large number of American
vefTcls , had taken refuge under the guns
of Fort Bourbon, on the Englilh entering
the bay.
j A refo'ution was moved in the House
of Representatives yelterday, by Mr. Clark
| —the purport of which is, to interdict all
j commercial intercourse between the Uni
ted States and Great Britain, until repa
ration and fatisfaclion be made to the Ci-.
tizens of the United States, for the losses
occaiioned by the depredations and spolia
tions of Britilh cruizers on the commerce
of this country—and until the Western
Posts shall be delivered, up. The lefolu
tion to take effect from the day of
—laid on the tablet
1.1 "'I
EPIGRAM.
On a late naval tranfattion.
WHEN mighty Caesar triumphs o'erhis foes,
Three words concise, his gallant ails dilclofe ;
But Howe, more brief, comprises his in one,
And, nidi, tells us all that he has done.
Baltimore, 28th March, 1794. R.
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROIV EVENING,
, April 4.
Will be performed,
A COMIC OPERA, never performed
here, caHed the
Highland Reel.
f Written by the Author of the Poor
Soldier.)
Laird of Col, Mr. Green
Laird of Raafay, Mr. Warrell
Mr. Gilpin, Mr. Finch
Sandy, . Mr. Marshall
Charley, Mr. Francis
Shilty, Mr. Bates
Croudy, Mr. Harwood
Captain Daft, Mr. Moretcn
Serjeant Jack, Mr. Darley
Apie, Mr. Biiflett
B.nin, Mailer Warrcll
Maggy,; Mrs. Marftail
Jenny, Mrs. Warrell
Highland Lads and Lafies, Mefli-s. Darley,'
jun. De Moulin, Lee,
Bason, Mrs. Cleve
land, Mrs. De Marquj
Mrs. Bates "Mrs.Finch
Mist. Willems, Miss
Rowfon, &c.
To conclude with a New REEL, (Compo
sed by Mr. Francis,) by the Characters.
To which will be added,
A Farce, in two Adts, called v
The Lying Y r alet.
Sharp, Mr. Bates
Gaylefs, Mr. Green
Justice Guttle, Mr. Francis
Beati Trippet, Mr. Cleveland
Drunken Cook, Mr. Bliflet
Mcfiflk, Mrs. Francis
Mrs. Gadabout, Mrs. Bates
Mrs. Trippetj Ml 9. Cleveland
Kitty Pry, (firjl time) Mrs. Rowfon
No places can be let in the fide boxes for a
less number than tight, nor any places
tained after the firlt adl. ,
The Doors will he operted at 5 o'clock,
and the performances begin at 6 o'clock pre
cisely.
*J* As inconveniences to the public Jiave
a rift 11 from the Box book being c pen cn the
days of perfo-mance only, in future attend
ance Wil be given at the office in the J heat re
every day from ten 'tillone, and on the days
of performance from ten till three o'clock in
the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, it is
refpedtfully requested, may he addressed, t<»
Mr. Franklin, at the Box Office.
'
The COMIC OPERA,
The Highland Reel,
Sold by E. Story, South 4th flreet.The Public are cautioned to
ktvjare of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
tie Bank of the United States, mid Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North Amerha,
feri'eitd of •Hihub have appeared in circulation
•within a fezu days pajl; the] art a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bill], but may
be diftmgwjbei by the fofotuiße
M A ft S.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Pap«r is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is finaller
than theM- and other Irtrers ot' that word,
l'o that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the tap of the M would extend con
siderably above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow- I
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
• The i and fin the word promilat ace not 1
parallel, the yinclioing much more forward
tjhan the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the strokes
of all the Letters are ftr6fcgtr and the device
in the margin particularly ismuch coar(er and
f appears darker thai) in the true bills. Some
o| the counterfeits bear daie in l-gi—Where
as the Bank was nbt ill Operation till Decem
ber, and no five dollar bills were jflued in
tfaat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appealed have the letter
#. (or rheir alphabetical inark>
■ They are printed on a paper pcarfy fiitiilar
to that ot the counterfeit Five Dollar Notes
described ; the is beitei exe
cuted, and thiy approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
• The fine ruled lines through the word Ttuen
-0) in the biidy of ;ihe bill, are 111 number thir
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The wnidTompany is much tilfce the fame
word in the Five Dollar B lis as described a
bove, the o being less than them, and others
following.
Thqre is 110 stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at tbe bottom, do noi come down to
the line, but are so cut a£ to give an ii regular
appearance to the word, the Pa s:id they go
ilig below thein.
Tbe Signature J Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamp black and
oily and differs from the other inks nfed in
pr.nting the bills and the cafliier's lignature.
It is foppofed thelc lor get its were commuted
in fonie ot the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits that have appeared, have cone from
tnence, and two persons have been apprehend
ed .'ill Virginia, on Ijafpicion ot being tbe Authors
of 1 hem.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Pertpn or Persons who lhall
' and prolecute tocohvi'Sion the several
oliencifrs of ihe following defer tptions or -any
of them, viz.
1 he person or ptrfons, who manufaflured
the paper on which the Bills are primed.
The perfen or peitons, who engraved the
plat's.
The printer or printers, si the bills.
* vei j pcH"n who has afled as a pr.ncipal in
?n> o. iei way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the /aid
THOMAS WILUNG, Piefident
of the B nk. United States*
JOHN NIXON, President of thr
'Bank, ot North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
ptftive Boards.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794. dtf.
Just Publiftied,
In one tundfome volume, i2mo. Price 5s
AND FOR S A!f£ BY
' JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 4 1, Second
Stre-l,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and 011 the
Dutits which it imposes.
Jo which a MEDAL war adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
CorreSed and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN
D. D.
Profefl,<jr of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
ol Nature, and of Eccleliaftical Hifloiy •
and Minister of the Enjlifc Church at ul
trecht.
Aliquid semper ad communem utilitatem af
ferendum. _ Ciciro.
The Firjl American Edition.
grand principle of Equality, if right
, Aly understood, is the only bafi's on which
univerfafjufUce, sacred order, and perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly!Tecured. The view of It exhibited in this
eflay, at the fame time that it rrpreffes the
uifolence of office, the tyranny ofpride, and
tbe outrages of oppression ; confirms, i n (he
most forcible manner, the necessity of subor
dination, and the just demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate
every natural and every civil diftinrtion,
* more closely every fo v ial tie, unites in
one harmonious and justly proportioned iyf
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of hutrtan na
tnre, of reciprocal _obli tt ation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. eodiwtu&ftf
* 1
Samuel Coates,
At bis Store, Ne. Bz, fvuth Front Jlrer,
HATH FOR SALE,
94 Barrels
New England Beef,
29 barrels liver o»i,
25 barrels Cider
92 boxes of Candles,
pair qf n en'h leaiher (hoes
642 bushels of Barley
A quantity of Tow Linen
Ditto, of New-England Soal leather
40 bags of excellent Cotton
4 boxes of Chocolate
3000 wt. of Alfpice
too cases of ih. belt Holland gin.
April 1. *eoH2w
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, fron
St. Petersburg in Rufiia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz
■
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN'S DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-street.
4,1794. diw/jtavftf
JUST PTTBfISHED,
AND .FOR 2>A 1 & BY
M. Carey, No. 118>Higb-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sitings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the hejl fetife in the world,
THIS little book IS written in a ftrle altogether
novel, and is adopted to all capacities as
well as to all claffcs of people, mcrchans, mc.
chauics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
work acquued, that it has passed thro three im
pressions in .he eastern states, and many houfc
holders deem it so ufelul as to purchafr a copv
for every adult in their families .Pr ice s«
February 4. drf
Lately Publilhed.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
TWo. 41, South Second-Street:
HE History of N t w-Hampfhite, from the
> I P' f °° V "y ° f ,lu R "" P'fcataqua-by Je
-1 Bel „ap, D. D. 3 Vols. Prtcc Board,,
■ I 4 1 2 Dollars. '
, | The forrtftcr, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Ctoihicr
• I Pr «> 75 Cents.
I Dilcourfe, intended to commemorate the
I ot America by Chnftophir Culum-
I bus; delivered at the -rcqttift ol it* Htlforical
I Society tn Maffachufeets, Ofiober B ,J, ~Q 2
I being the complet.on of the Thnd Crn." '
I . " nieroorable event. To which are
I i i i' u"' D,fferla "°n», connected with the
I x» y the imc author Puce, «o Ccn;s
- ■u;&f.r» '
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 2s, Dock■
I Street:—
I A few Bales ot Ruffij Sheetings,
I 4 , Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
bale of low-pnced Cotto,, Handkerchiefs,
I A £ u aniity of Si uchong Tra, Hyson and
I Tonkay, ditto.
I Holland tin in Cases,
I A Quamuy of Brimltonr,
Wuh a Variety of other Goods.
I Feb. ao. ' r
I 1 —.
JAMES LEACH,
I R t^ PEC ur informs his friends and
IV the public, That from the encouragement
I he has received, from feveratrcfpeftable Gentle.
"aPER m ° re .'oeblbat* i„ , ht "
1 r.K r y N£_a °d offe. hi. feivi, c , to
I all thole Geiiticmen, who cin place confine
I in him; and he assures thdfe who employ htm
that thetr confidence (hail no, be
but .t fhal! be hi, constant endeavor, to pay ' lh
llrichfl attention to their best tnterefl, h ,"
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber
w over Mr. Davrd Tovnfend, W,
TiVs e of a2 p >;~r Vh " c
I T , tS ' ° l aN kinds, are bought and (old • and
Bufitiefs of all kinds, will be
VESSEIi on .. r " fona^ le 'cms. HOUSES and
; c onftantiy exposed for faie, on
; P' ov 'dence, and
I v N 'v ß 'i V in Phihdeitkia nr
I ' ew - °' k l has Hvftrrefs to Iran faff J Holten
in Paper Xegowttons, he will be hafiM to bt ,m
ployed en cmwj/ion. PP) f" 1 "
1 - . Boft on,_Jan. 24, i 79 4. mw&f.f
TO BE^OLD;
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
I 3n ■ e ' , ® ible f rtuation,_airo a Country Siat
1 wtth.n 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
Honre° r 42 acres ,and and meadtj he
House is not exceeded by minv in
of* the rit-v ;« r ,n VlCiiilty
01 the city, tn [ lze or convenience. 7
For terms apply to the printer.
2 3- m4th _ tf
WAITED
AN" APPRENTICE
OW t>rintiflSßufifti6 ' Entire at this
WHEREAS an alia* fubpotna has issued.
out of the Supreme Court of this Com
mon wc<> Ith, at ihe suit of \I a rcaaet Evans,
f 9 up >u a petition preferred by th* said Marc*,
ret } praying for a Divorce from the bonds of
Matrimony, entered into with Robert Evans-
This is to give notice to th<. fmd Rob t rt, thai
he be and appear a the said Supreme Court, to
be held at the City of Philadelphia on Monday
the seventh day of April next, at the State-Houlc
in the said City, to answer the matters alieaged
in the laid petition.
Wm. chapman,
Sheriff ot Bucks County.
Match 5, 1794. *i aw
To Robert tvanq.
JuJl Imported,
From London, Dublin, and Glasgow,
And now opening tor Tale,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No, 118, Marlet-Jlrutt,
1 A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION ©r BOOKS,
Among which are the tallowing :
NEW Annual Register for 1 792
European Magazine for the firlt fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of thi Manchester focicty, 3 v °ls-
Priestly on matter and Ipitit
on christianity
Difney'j lite of Dr. Jortin
D'Anvilie's ancient geography
Memoirs of Guy Joli
Variety,a collection of allays
King of prussia's wo>-ks
■falm oljfervei —by Mackintolh
Ruliell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutaich
Elegant extracts, fnperbly gWt
Elegant extracts of naturalhiftory
SaugniL*r and BrilTon's voyage
'Rochon's voyage to
Town fend's travels in Spain
TaiTo's Jerusalem cieliverjd
Smell.'e's tranllation of BufTou
B-i wick's hilloiy of quadrupeds
( Buffon abridged '
tiiftony 6f birds
Philips'* history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols,
Cur unities of literature,' 3 vo^.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoflan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature. - 1
I inlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudfon'-s Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on ph_vfio:*ROiuv, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Jqft'nfbn
Nicker on executive power
Kifles of Secundum
Gallery of portraits *
Vomey's ruin,s of empires
— — Travels
Vaillaint's travels, with fupert> engravings
j Downaian's infancy
I Adair's history of American Indians
I B*ningron on materialism and immareriaJfftii
I Berchold's advice to travellers
_ J Builder's magazine
I Complete fatmer
I Chandon's Jjfe of Voltaire
j De Non Vtrevete
I Franklin's life and works
J Grozjer's description of China
I Murphy's tranllation of Tacitus
j Godwin on pojitical juflice
I Gazetteer of Frai.cc, 3 vols.
j Helvetim on mau
I Kaimes's iketches of the history ot man
j Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benjgnus
I Mawc's gardener's di&ipna»y
I Noble's memoirs of tiie Cromwell family
I Playhouse dictionary
I Reveries of folitnde
I Smith's theory of moral fentinKnts
, I Stacklioufe's hiftoi v of the b»b:e
; WatfonN life of Philip lid. & illd.
I Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
I VVanley's wonders of the little world, called
[ man
I Wail-s on the prevention of diseases
I Mojre's journal in Fiance
I !x° x ', s trave * s mtopenmar^Rufl^Polanc^&rc.
I Cox's travels into Switzerland
I history of the French revolution
I Life of Lord Chatham
j -Mallet's northern antiquities
I Mothei by's medical dictionary
Griggs advice to fwnaJes
Hamilton's outlines of the pradlice of mid
wifery
I Manning's practice of physic
I Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
I Innes on the muscles
I Pott's works -
I Fourcroy's chemistry
| Aunftrong on of children
I Jliiincy's d fpenfatory
I Edinburgh di/peniatory
I Lewis's dilpenlato y
I Ryan 011 the afthnia
I Robertfon's treatile on fever,
j Lee's botany,
I Leake on the viTee»*a
I Leake on difeaies of women
I Nicholfon's chemistry
I Gardiner <hi the animal economy
I Lewis's Materia Medica
j Fordyce 011 digestion
I VVithering on ilie fox glove
Lind an the diseases ot li«»t
Monro 00 difeaies of Anuic>
ttaller's phyfioJogy
SpaJAiizane's diff.rtXiorts
London pr.-rftire of ptivfic
Bell's fiirgery ]
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fonithand Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Eptfcopal bnrynig
ground,
TAKES this opportunity cf returning hiT
grateful tluuts to his former employer;,
and requeuing their future favors, as well as
those of the public fu general.
He continues to make and repair at the
Ihwteft notice, all Itintk of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, pbKTtms n-.rh and
without crane necks, co-ac!iees Icliaifes,kitte
reens, wiiidfor fulkeyi-i tl ehan s, and liarnefs
of evary description, io the neatest and neueft
Jttffiioh now prevailing in the United States.
And is he lias a quantity of the best feaftned
wood by him, ard capital wo-kmcn, he has
not the least doubt but lie will be able to give
fatisfaSion to those who pleale to enip.loT mm
He has for faie, several carriages aimofl
finilhed, foch as coachees, au Italian Windsor
chair, hung on steel a light for
one or two horses, aud a (iilfcey with a falli-vr
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
_Phijidt-lpli:a, Jan. 6, i 794 tf&YfcJiu
IjNFORM A T I O N ~
is Requested
By the Edi or, of a Ms. William Kil'on, a
Brick Layer, who went tiom New-Englard
and was at Philadelphia rft Aujuit, .-fti
since which time nothing has been heard of
hun—Great relief s\ in be afforded to.fcis aged
pareuts aud fiiends, by any u; reliance con
cerning him—as they are leai ul ib&t he Ims
fallen in the late general calaiuitv.
March 22.
Henry Rape State of Mar_vi.u.cl. **
. v ' /'High Court <'i Chanceiv.
> Maid. sth. i 7g4
I and V
I Basil Ga.ther -f
Hie Complainant states
I in 111] b II that the Weli-mlaaitj l;< pjnmiD Gai-
I ther and Basil G.ii.her were feizcd in fee as
I. tenants in common gj a n- a ft oi j an j p re _
derick Count*, called Haintoond's Strife
I that fc- ng so feiled, Basil executed a pouer
' . i *. u,r, *. v to Beirjnmm aurboi-izirg bun to
I tell bis, the said Bsfii's uitcnell in the fad
land, that aftcwaids the (aid Henjamin fold
I the laid iand toa certain William Gaithcr for
I thc conn.isration of lix hundred pounds whith
I fiuce paid, that the said William
hath afligned to rhe Complainant Heurv Kane
I r ' Ki J:,ti cx ecutid by the said Bei iao'iin for
I the conveyance ot tie fa d lantf : The Oom-
I I" 1 " further ilaies (a.jj so appears
I °f ' v an f c l«or) that the defetiaauts are
non-rcficfeuts of the (fate of Maryland, and
J he. sfore out of the reach of the procels of
I tfm court.
I the Coiup aiuant procure a copv of this or
de, to be iuferted ln the uewfpa'pe. of
I and Sal 1 van, and in the-UniretfState;;
atleaft three weeks fuccelJively, before (he
twt-.t. tli day of May o< *t ;to the intent
dwc the Defendants and ell others who r , av
" es' mlvV " reiV " i " teU ' fte " the MfW*
es, may have notice to appear in this court
on or before the third Tucftfey i„ Sepu.nhe?
| next, tv flww o au , fi wl K tefore a i. t , w^,oui(l
not pafsfu, theComplßinanr^c^.
I piete legal title to the land aforefaid.
I l'eft,
I SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD
I March ,8. ReS ' CUI ' Con '
I — tuth£r»3w
Stock Brokers Office
I TUIES bf' ,n " ftrect > New-York. '
t t^vTußc^v; himfe,f
STOCKS orv CO h SALE or
f-r his ferviccsts hi!ij lc " e lo of
lineola Stock Broker "Thore 11 " 8 ''" ' he
to favor him With their ™° r % who "»y p'cafe
upon having iV tranfafi h 1 m3y dc P e " d
lity and dispatch W " h ' he U,moft fide
o.h?; d ;": r Xunt^ p,m ' Bofton '
I atiendiad to. LEONARD BLEECKEr'^
Fridav the ntkday of April next
° f Jtbn Th °" lfon > in Perth:
The Proprietary House
and lot of land,
THBHqP t IN that CITY.
H i-ot contains elcvtn acres, on which is
an orchard-os gwfled apple fees, a well of
excellent water, a large Hone cistern, and a veiy
commodious liable and coach-house, and a great
Quantity of tire bcft building ft o ics in the walls
or Uie house, which was formerly built for the
nrfidenoe of the Governors of New-Jersey. The
Situation x)f this Lot is so well known for it?
healthiness and beautiful profpeft of the Rariton
"vec to the weft ol the bay, and Sandy-Hoojc to
the e<ift, thai a further delcription is unnecessary
The conditions of sale will be, one third of the
purchase money (o be paid on the firlt day of
May next, when a good and Cufficient Deed will
be given to the puiehafer, by Walter Ru.
t««rpurd, Esq. President of the Board of
Proprietors ot the Eafteirn Division of New.
Jetfey, ana the remaimog two thirds fcti,f»ao
- faeured i/i equal annual payments.
Ey .order ol the Board,
Penh A k J AMES P ARKER, Rcgifler.
rtrth-Amby, February, .^c^.
PHILADELPHIA :
p «y JOHN filnno, n 0 4,
I South Fourtk-Street.