d tbe lltiito
EVE
[No. 65 of Vol. V.]
A RECOMPENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hen by off< red by the President apd Diiec
lors of the Bank of the United Sta;es, to any
j»rrfon who (halt, on or belorc the full day of
May nrxt, pionnce to them such n (.lan and eve*
la!ion of a Banking H"ufe, at (hall be appiovrd
of by them.—A plain, vef handsome Iront is
drfircd : The whole building is to be jfublfantia)
and commodious with as much space around it,
as thr size of the gmnnd w>il aHmit.
The Lot on which the building is to be eitft
ed t is fi : uated on the wcfl fid: ol Third-street,
between CheOuit and \V"alnnt-ftrceis in Phila
delphia ; and its dimension* arr no feet on
Thiid-Rreet, and abo'u> too fret westward.
THOMAS WILLING, Prefidcnt.
c..p3>*.
Scheme of a Lottery,
To rtiifc 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, Jrdueling\ 15 per Cent, from
the Priz.es-—this Loiter 1 confijls 1f
38,000 Tic ids, in yihic}> there are
1 4'539 P r,MS a "d 2 3'+ < 5 i Rlar.ls,
being alout one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Directors of 'he Society for eftahliftrog
fyfrf.ul .Manufactures, having rcfolyed to
rrcQ LOTTERIES lor la'.finf <>N EHp ndreii
Thousand Doll ars, agu-eahly to an Ad ol
the I.< R fl wire o» thf St tc ol New-Jersey, hbvc
appointed the following pcifons to fupc intend
O'Tfrt t !»«• <1' HWH»£ ol ihc f« illi". \ 11, Xidio
!.'? Lou'. Wni«s K'hg, Li- R- y. J ijpes
\Vatt'nri, Ru;»utd H<"n(nn, Abtjih 1 iaip,
and Co' iu liijs < f the cuy o l N.v."V o' k
Thomas Willing. |o fjih I>jli. MjUlkw M'Con
nr! an 1 Andrew H-yard, oi the ci«v ot Phu-»-
dc!pbij—His ExcrPcney Reh.-ud Hnwill. Klo.
M wl'noi, (Icnct2! 1,1 ;is Davtrn. Jom s
Pa»krr, John B'vard, P-.it'"" I. v> ii
Samuel XV. Stock'on, lofl»n» M. Wnll i< e. J !fh
Bloomfi;'id, *nd Jr.l'ftm Ho-ir'nift, o{ X w- J
fey, who otfer the S M a Lot
tery, and pledge ihrmt'lvs ui il e pnbbe, mat
fh'rv %v'il t»k> r»fi V .'fTir-tiiCr nncl pit c.m u>;i in
ihrrr power ioh<vetu» Moni.-s nu d by 'h»
MaracP's, fron* to ts'n'*, •>< 'cefved, into
toe Canks at Nfw-Yoikintl PlrUriflphta, to
itinain for ihc mn pole ol iuvi>)e; P('7. s, which
flial'i br i*>n?"iediae!v by a clunk
upon one of 1 H" Bank*.
SCHEME:
i Prize of ?0,000 Doliais is 9C,^00
1 Pri
3
5
10
>0
ito
3 co
ICOO
10,000
5-000
9,000
1 ,GCO
5 00
100
5°
eo
'5
12
10
aooo
JfOOO
Bjoo
JPli7.es. 262,000
93.461 Blanks. F»rfl r*»»wn mimhrr, 2,000
drawn number, 2,000
38.CC0 Tirkcts at 7 Dollar* each i
. The drawing wil! commence, unrW th-° m
fpefti mofa Ci>m mttce o! ' he S;.pc
at T«»on »s the Tickets a«e foui,ol wluc'u nmcly
norce *k-:!l beg vrn.
The SuoerintrnrJants have nppoin'i-d JoSn N.
Curominp, of Nt'waik. Jaooo R. Iww,
of k, and Jonathan of
Trentorf, as iwinv diair V<wi.ign s iVk-01, v ho
hsvr 9 r npl' > frcutiiy for d'fcharguig die
liurt rrpofird in them.
|pT In order 10 fecore the pimflu '1 foment
of th'- Piizcs, theSupertntendantsof the Loftrry
havr diredt-d ihat the Managers Hi ill eijeh ci'ucr
into bonds in 4C,o«»o<soT!ais, with four fuukient
Iccuriii s, to peiform their inftruftions, the sub
stance of which it
I. That wheocver eilftcr of the Managers
shall rrCrivethe futrt of Three Hundred Dol!;:*«,
he fba'l irttwdiatrly place the fame in one of the
Banks of N r cw-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedii ol the Governor of the Society» and such
of the Superintends: s as l>vc in the city where
the monies arc plated, lo remain there un't! ihc
Lottery is drawn, for the payment of the Prizes.
If. The M.!na»;c»* lo take fufficient frctiriiy
foi any Ticket* they may trufl, othersife to be
refponiiblr for them.
111. To keep ic<ular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid in»o tlie B-tnJc, ab
fl'aOsot which fb. l !! be firnt, monthly, to the
Govrinoi of Ibe Society.
Paterfon, January i, 1794.
On application ro either of the abo»e penile,
men, information will be given where tickets
tu'v be had.
February tf
C 3* This Gazette Jhall h enlarged > as it
receives encouragement —The Subscription
encreafes daily—jfdvertifing Favors are
foliated —These conjiitute an ejfential Item
in dtmini/btng the DeLii Jide of the Account.
N I N G A D V E
Wednesday, February 26, 1794.
Wanted to Charter,
&L A VESSEL
Of iooo Barrels burthen.
Enquire of
JOHN CRAIG.
Feb. 24, 1794. dtf
for Sale or Charter,
rin The Ship
ANDROMACHE,
<( an American bottom )
J ohn Moorej Mb Her ;
Is a flout good veflel, dboiit two years old,
burthen 232 tons, has only made three voy
ages, and may be font to Tea at a fmail ex
pence. She may be fcch at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
JVharton & Lewis,
dtf
Feb. 22, 1794
M Lewis,
lias for Sale ai h:s Store, No. 25, Dock-
A few Bales ot RuiTu SHrctin^s,
liaiu! k n citu is in Boxes,
A 11! f tjw-p> •> c C'oUom H mdkeichiefj,
A O'iaiiiuy i>! S iii i.si i; T,a, Kyfuu and
Ho!!ai.d.G;n in Cafp?,
A Ou ■ (111«y >-f titiinft-
With .s Vancry o* other Goods.
,3 au 6w
Feb. 20.
infty Dollars Reward.
ON i!it 3,lft of Ull the r ad
.dnllcd a letter 10 MifTs. Thomas Pearjall
WOW, fneichah-s in N.w-Yoik, and iiictofed
therein a bank n>te, No. 445, for twenty dol
lars ; one ditto, No. 151, tor thirty dollars;
and one ditto, N«. 3»k66, for twenty dollars.
—He also addiclTod a letter to Mr. Gilbert
Sahonjittil, merchant in New-York, a
bank bill, No. 148, for fifty dollars, indoifed
on ibe back theu of in ihefr words— *'Pa) the
within to Mr. Gilbert Saltonjld//—Eben. Hunting
ten.''—lie also addrcflcd a letter to MefTrs. White
& H'jrieU, merchants in New-Yo'k, and inclo
sed a bank bill for en dollars, and a draft in fa
vor ol said White & War dell, which letters were
put in the Poll-Office on fa id 31ft January, to
be forwarded to New-York ; But by letters re
ceived from the Gentlemen to whom they w re
severally addrelTVd, th money was robbed
from each letter before delivery.
The Public are uquefled 10 endeavor a de
letion of the V Mains who committed the above
inbberv. The bill i'nd >i fed. I think was a York
bank bill, and some others, one or more was
of the Uni;cd States bank) remitted at Philadel
phia. Any person discovering the Thief, and
return ; ng the Money, (hall be entitled to fifty
dollars reward.
10,000
io,occ
10,000
14. cco
20,000
50,000
36.000
81.000
KEEN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich. 14'h F, h. j 794. $\vy-9w
•(] 6.000
Philosophical Lectures,
By J. M. R A Y.
FROM Edinburgh, lately from Paris,
teacher of Hebrew, &rc. languages, au
thor ofConiprehenfive View of piiilofophical,
Political, and Theological Systems, from the
creation of the world to the prcfent time, &c.
He will begin this second course of Lectures
Febru ry 27th, at 6 o'clock in the evening, in
the Friends' grammar school room, 4tb street,
and will finifl) it in a month.—The idea of it
wksTtigoeftid by fonie Ladies for the improve
ment of the sex—but it is calculated for both
k-xes (of any age above childhood) whereby
they will discover a new world in nature,
concealed from others as a fine country is
from travellers in the night, and as the light,
and the appearance of ikature is from the
blind; this will be a new scene of enjoyment
and dettuht, as that of feeing is to one born
blind, and will teach them to acquire the pro
per use ot their faculties, as a child does that
of his limbs by learning to walk :—this will
elevate them to a Plvlofophical region of sub-
I me enjoyments and rational pleasures, as
much superior to the pleasures anrl amuse
ments of others as a man is to a chifd in fea
ture, and which will endure the shock of ad
versity, and not fmfwk* them like others, in
afHiftion and old age ; as the nfe and end of
all real knowledge is practice and happiness,
this course will tend ro promote personal hap
piness, and fit for the duties of focirty, one
pnrt of it will be on the preservation of health
of body and serenity of mind, without which
riches can afford no enjoyment : those whoob
ferved the author's regimen,efcaped theFcfli
lential d feafe in the house were others died
of it. To begin with an introftnftory Lec
ture on the great benefits of to
3*-
tawif.
Feb. 19.
AND
Street :—
1 'TkQy» f'i;to.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths & Jewellers,
No. 42,
sTduth second-street,
H AVE FOK SALE,
An elegant AJfortment of
Silver y plated ware,
JEWELLERY <sf /« CUTLERY,
V/!iich they will difpole of on the raoft rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
fctt, and every thing in the gold ar.d fiiver
wnv, done as usual
December 24,
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Porrrierly Keeper of the City Tavern > and
of the Merchant's Cojfee-Houfe of this
vtyj-
RLSPECH rUI.LY informs hi# Fiiends and
the Public i\> general, lhat he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shif>pen-Strret, be
tween Third and frourt h-iitrerts, at the House
formerly occupicd by Mr. Tinimons, which
his lately been greaily in.proved, and is now
very commodious ; when he ha* turnifhed him
felt with <he beti of LIQUORS, and will fqr
nifh a TAULK for Parties, with the bed provi.
fions the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
(hortrft notice. From his long experience in
this line of bufinels, he flatters himfelf he Ihall
be able to give fatisiaftion to all who may plcafe
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29,1794.
George Brhxghurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In.Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying-
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thank* to his former employers,
and requefhng the» r future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
fhort'eft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
fuel) a* coaches, chariot', phaetons with and
without crane neck*, coachees, chai/es, kitre
reens, windsor fulkeysand chaits, and harness
of "every description, in the neatest and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him. and capital workmen, he has
not the lead doutVt but he will be able to give
fat is faction to those who pleas? to employ him.
He has for sale, several carriages almost
finiflied, such as coachee?, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
Philadelphia, Jan.-6, 1794 mget^m
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
PARIS, December 2
Yesterday the Convention received ad
vice that the Republicans had obtained a
victory over the Piedmontefe troops, and
that they had taken their Camp at Mag
dalena, and also of a fruitlefs attack of
the Prussians on Bitche, from whom they
took 250 prisoners.
BRUSSELS, December 5.
Lad Saturday the French again made
a general attack on the Imperial frontier
polls, and they had the good fortune to
penetrate as far as Menin, from which
place the cannon placed on the ramparts
played on them, which made them retreat,
after having fifty men taken prisoners:
and we understand that in the diftrift of
Stunvoorden, the enemy are collecting in
great numbers; from which we judge,
that their design is once more to wrefl
from us Weft Flanders.
FRANKFORT, Nov. 26.
The plan of taking Bitche by furprifc,
or rather the Citadel, which would have
been a great acquiCtion, at it commands
the defiles, was attempted in the night of
the iGth, and miscarried. The town was
talily taken, and the Prussians even pene
trated in the zig-zag to the last gate to
wards the Citadel, vrfiere the French, with
balls, timber, stones, and boiling water,
forced the aflailants to retreat with the loss
of fcveral hundred men.
R T I S E R.
[Whole No. 525.]
December 5,
The intelligence that lieutenant-colonel
Kitfchfeldt, adjutant-general to the duke
of Brunfwick had been killed, is without
foundation. He had a stone thrown at his
head near Bitche, which wounded him ' T
he is alive at Worms, whither he went to
wait his recovery.
GRAVENHAGEN, Dec. 12.
letters from BrufTels, of the sth inft.
advise, that several Bloody (kiimiflies had
taken place near Hallum and Werwick,
where ijomenof Laudon's free corp»
were taken prisoners ; the firft inft. the
French had advanced to Ypres and Me
nin, nothing, liowever, took place, but
/light fliirmilhes, which were viewed as
the forerunner of a serious attack soon
taking place by the French; as they had
already retaken the post of Poperingen,
and that their army daily received consi
derable reinforcements.
niwi-fif
By letters from Genoa, we learn, that
last week a great number of barrels, filled
with gunpowder, were found in Porto-
Franco, probably hidden there with the
wicked intention of blowing tip the great
magazines. On account of this manoeu
vre, an extraordinary Council was held,
the result of which was, an order for all
the foreigners to quit immediately the ci
ty and harbor of Genoa. This morn
ing, several ships, full of foreigners, ex
pelled from Genoa, arrived here.
The citizens of Marseilles have been
forced to enrol themselves in Cartaux's ar
my, being threatened with the guillotine
in cafe of refufal. No fooncr are the un
fortunate people put to guard the out
posts, than they take the opportunity to
desert hither. They affr.re us, that Car
teaux has not more than yeco effective
men, the greater part of whom are forced
volunteers. They ai e dreadfully circum
ftat •ed for want of provisions, and are o
bliged to live upon the fruits of the cli
mate.
Very few of them have tents to sleep
under.
Six thousand Portuguese are daily ex
pected.
PORTSMOUTH, Nov. 22.
By a Danifli brig which arrived here
this evening from Brest, we have the fol
lowing particulars :
The Thames frigate, Captain Cotes,
previous to being taken, had an aftiou
with a French 64 gun ship, arme en Jlute,
which struck ; but the Caramagnole fri
gate, of 44 guns, immediately coming up
a mod severe engagement took place, and
after having 44 men killed, a milch great
er number wounded, the Thames dismast
ed, and rendered totaHy unmanageable,
Capt. Cotes was under the necelTity of
striking his colours. Captain Cotes and
his officers are closely confined.
During the time the Dane lay at Brell,
the Thames was completely refitted, man
ned, and ready for sea. A (loop of war
had likewise brought in 5 English coalt
ers with good cargoes, one of them be
longing to Liverpool. The day this brig
failed from Brest, a fleet confiding of nine
fail of the line and 3 frigates put to sea
but their deftiuation was not known.
There were besides in Brest water, entire
ly ready for sea, 14 fail of the line, two
of them three deckers, and ten large fri
gates, that were expected to join the a
bove fleet.
FALMOUTH, Nov. 30.
This afternoon about j o'clock, arriv
ed here a French frigate called La Blonde
mounting 28 guns. The Blonde was cap
turedby his Majesty's frigate, the Phartcn
commanded by Sir A. S. Douglas. It is
reported that the Photon fired one broad
side only into La Blonde, whereupon
the Sans Culottes immediately struck.
The Blonde had been out from L'Ori
eot three da vs.
LEGHORN, Nov. 12
TOULON, Nov. 1For the Gazrtje vf the L/mfko
TO THE EDITOR,
SIR,
Though at a difiance from the great
world, and not in my power to pay the tribute
of congratulation on our beloved President's
BiRTK -Da y—-yet the Muse prejgnts her httm-
blc offerings confciotu tba. the fooutans&ts
verjt is net equal to the fitbjeft- —but as it is
dictated by a grateful and jincett hearts I Hope
it iv ill not be unacceptdble to Jome of your
readers, if you think proper to give it a place
in Jome corner of your pap?r.
I am, Sir, your Friend.
Ftt. j i/7, i ;»4
AN O D E
ON THE
Prejidenf s Birth-Day!
F AIR rife the morn that gave our hero birth,
And with it peacc descend to bless the earth,
Fiy diicord tar iro.n these cnlijjhtcn'd fhorc:
Let not fell Ate with defti unlive powers,
Shed one malignant ray.
But let the loves and all the graecs come—
Let Nature smiling ftied a rich perfume,
And antedate the Spring.
With myrtles crown'd fair Freedom lia.il the
morn,
On which your friend, our much lov'd Chief
was born,
And all ye Muses sing.
Let venal bard 9 a despot's brow adorn-
In every wreath they find the rugged tham—
And praise, a fittire proves :
But our bright liieme will make the garland
shine—
To sweetest flowers his virtues we combine,
And add to those—our loves.
What noble qualities enrich his inind —
His ardent zeal his policy refin'd—
His watcbfulnefs and care—
Where'er his Country needs a faithful guard*
No dire event can find him unprepar'd,
For arls of peace or war.
When savage herds invade our fertile plains,
And undiftinguilh'd scalp the peaceful swains,
His energy is seen.
Colle&s the warriors from their rural home,
Their long negle&ed helmets they affane,
And peace is heard again.
When ancient nations past their zenith, drive
To that fix'd point, at which they mujl arrive,
And? all their glory cloud —
Contending armies croud the enfangui iiM field,
Their glittering arms are seen—the sword,
shield
And garments roll'd in blood.
Or. Nature's theatre, almost alone,
Columbia fitting on a peaceful throne,
Reclines her beauteous form
Upon the boibm of her favorite Son —
Sets him compleat the work which he begun,
And tarn the impending fiorm.
Long m .y this bright aufpiciai;s dar sp ;?ar
And gild with lucid rays our hcmifpbere,
Reflecting on his bread—
That confc'ions pi ace, that ever must arise
From t'oodnefs, ufefulnefsand greatemprize,
Bv which his Country's blefs'd.
And when the Arbiter of life and death,
ShaHTend his Angefto demand his breath,
And speed his heavenly flight—
May 1 wimble hope and sacred joy iraparty
Streams of ccleil al pleasure to his heart,
Incommunicably bright.
\JThe Editor regrets that the foregoing was
not received in feaftm for an earlier publica
tion —but its merits preclude the necejjity of
an apology f r its appearance at any tiine.'l
LAW OF THE UNION.
THIRD CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES,
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun aod field at the city of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennfvlvania, on Monday
thefecond of December,one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-three.
An ACT for the relief of Thomas Jenkins
and Sons.
BE it cnafled by the Senate and Iloufe of
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress assembled, That it
shall and may be l nvful for the collector for
(he diftr <3 oi New-York,to remit to Thomas
Jenlcir.s and Sons, owners of the fbip Ame
rican Hero, the duties and imposts of ton
nage, which may be incurred" in confluence
of th« incompetent or invalid register of the
said fliip : Provided, Tliev (hall obtain, with
in onr hundred and twenty days, a new regis
ter for the said (hip, in the manner prescribed
bv law.
Frederick Augustus MuHf.ENBERC,
Speaker of the House of
Representatives.
John Adams', Vice-President of the
United States and Pretident
of the Senate.
Approved February the 1
nineteenth, 1794- J
G°. Washington, PrcGdeat of the
United States.
By the President of toe Untied Siates of
ylrmrrtLii'
A Proclamation.
W HER FAS by information given
upon oath, it appears that in the
night time of the tweaty second day of
November, a number ot armed men hav
ing fheir faces blackened and being other
wise dlfguifed, violently broke open and
entered the dwelling bouse of Benjamin
Weils colle&orof the revenue arilingfrcm
spirits difulled witliin the United States,
in and for tire counties of Weftmoreland
and Fayette in the ai ft riot of Pennsylva
nia, and by aifaulting the laid collector
and putting him in fear and danger of his
life, in his dwelling house aforefaid, in the
said county of Fayette did compel him to
deliver up to them his commiflion for col
lecting the said revenue, together with
the books kept by him in the execution
>f his said duty, and did threaten to do
further violence to the said colle&or, if he
did not (hortly thereafter publicly renounce
the further execution of hit? laid office i
And whereas fcveral of the perpetra
tors of the said offeirce are flill unknown,
and the fafety and good order of society
reqnfre that filch daring offenders should
be discovered and brought to juflice so
that inflations of the law may be prevent
ed, obedience to them secured, and officers
protettedin the due execution of the trusts
reposed in them, thertfen I hare thought
proper to offer and hereby do offer a re
ward of TWO HUNDRED DOL
LARS for each of the said offenders that
{hall be dilcovered and brought to juflice
for the said offence, to he paid to the pet-
son or perfor.s who {hall fir ft discover and
give information of the laid offenders to
any judge, jultiee of the peare, or other
maiTiftrate.
And 1 do hereby ftridily charge and
enjoin all officers and miniftqrs of juflice
according as their refpeftive duties may
require, to life their be-(I endeavors to
cause the said offenders to be discovered
apprehended and secured, so that they
may be speedily brought to trial for the
offence aforefaid.
In Testimony vhep.eof I have
/ \caufed the seal of the United
y• J States of America to he affixed
to thef.: prcfents, and signed the
fame with my hand. Done at
the city of Philadelphia the 24th
dav of February one thousand
seven hundred and ninety four,
and of the Independence of the
United States of America, the
eighteenth.
Go. WASHINGTON.
By the Prffulent
Edm : Randolph.
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Ff.n-no,
Whilst I pay my tribute of applause to
Critos' happy choice of a fubjedfc of ani
madverfiea i.i your Gazette of Thursday,
I am captivated with his much admired
' taste and fentirtient,' and feel something
irrefiftable to participate his sober ideal,
as well as to join him in the lift of those
doughty Champions of Virtue, denomina
ted Reformers of the Age: But when I
look round and view the rapid strides of
of Sin—nay, witness even the Wicked
ness of many, who under the malic of a
Samaritan, cover the measure of their
own iniquities, and uncharitably attribute
to others the causes of lue obje£t of their
vehemence—the prof gacy of the times. I
fay, when I thus view such a picture of
human hypocrisy, I cannot withstand
an lioneft indignation, that such men
there are, who from the shrines of their
devotion yell again ft vice and immorality,
and from the irrafcibility of their style,
defeat their own virtuous purposes. Such
Sir, are the means now purfwed to disturb
the tranquility of Society, and to cast an
odium on those, who cannot confeien
tiou.Oy participate another man's opinion.
To revert more particularly to the fub
jeft in question, that of Theatric Exhi
bitions ; and though not a regular fre
quenter of what Crito terms ' those mad
scenes of pleasure,' I confefs, I should
prefer an amusement, where Vice and Vir
tue are so feelingly contra (led, to the Mad
Ravings of a Pulpit Orator. To render
Virtue amiable, is to {hew Vice in its
moil odious colours.
Ckito \vould do well, firft. to appease
the irrmiibility of hia feelings, before he
attempts to work his miracles—and (hould
boi-fiiiutious how he criticises those, whom
he niggardly presumes, " knows but little
of the \vovW or of human nature." Be
lize me Sir, I have witnefled 4< The
" Wrath of HrafexJ* ar.d have seen
u thole mournful scenes" Crito so
tragically depicts.—Peace be to the manes
of our deeeafed Brethren—persuaded we
all feel an equal sorrow for departed worth
so valuable while living. Contrary to
Crito, I animadvert not on words, keep
ing in mind, " that ten censure wrong, for
one who writes amiss."
Crito, lias thrown the gauntlet —it is
taken up—recommending however, more
moderation in his ciitical attacks on the
style of his purile opponents, as he should
be aware that the trifling of phrases and
perverting their original meaning to Jinifler
purposes, render his arguments futile, till in
the end, they recoil on his ozvn flighty ima-
gi nation.
For the Gazette of the United States
A. B's Farewell to Gracchus,
GRACCHUS is so accufcomed, per
haps, to a pack, that he can hardly de
tach the idea of a literal patteboard-card
from the figurative application of that
word, to a certain species of writing.—
With people of common science and morals
his pun is ioft.
A. B. is glad to perceive that Gracchus
has " feelings" though they be of a " ple
beian" or coarse description. It is a
symptom that he is nbt quite so callous,.-.3
unprincipled minds usually are: Yet it
would seem by the Jlyle and complexion of
his billet that he has attained to a conside
rable degree of impenetrability.
He afierts falfeliuod with as much cafe,
as if be had been bred to its profeffional
exercise ; and with an impudence peculiar
to himfeif, has Hated that A. B. has re
traced, what Gracchus calls, the error of
his firfl: publication. A single proof of
this, would have been worth a dozen of
aflertions ; the one, however, cost no la
bor, the other would have been a Hercu-
lean tailc.
He also very morlrftly declares, that there
is now, no difference of opinion between
himfrlf and A. B. who, if he means any
thing, mnfl mean- I coincidence in fentr
ment with him. One can easily fee that
he has been tifed to his trade, and hopes
by bold-faced impertinence to impose up
on the Jury, that is to decide upon the
point in difpnte.
I
fft the learned explanations which Grac
hus condescended to give, in his firft re
jly to A. B. upon the article fovereigntv,
we find the following aflertion ; "as the
people delegate a PO RTION of their fo
ver- igr.ty, that body which has the legj/lative
power is the sovereign for them" When
ever he will be so good as to shed a little
of his light upon this sentence, and ex
plain " what part of the sovereign for the
people the legislature is," it, will greatly
assist A. B. in the solution of a question
which Gracchus proposed.
In the mean time as Gracchus lias tak
en his leave, perhaps to accompany his
Client, as A. B. advised, he is recuefted
to present the compliments, of the fiiends
of order and good government in Amcri
sa, to the influential leaders in the Na
tional Convention, with thanks for the
happy riddance which this country'lias ob
tained through their INSTRUMEN
TALITY, of two very troublesome in
mates.
ExtraH from the id. Vol• of the Secret
Hijlory of the Green Rooms in the three
Theatres Royal—London.
" Mr..Fennell" (of the New Theatre
in this city.)
" This gentleman is among the few
who have descended from genteel prof
pefts to the Stage, purely from inclinati
on—without the ftimulusof neceflity, and
in danger of offending very refpeftnble re
lations, he was impelled as it were by in
ftinft, to attempt the Bufl<in and made ap
plication to the Managers, without the
forms of introduction or the impediment
of fear.
" Mr. Fennell can bcaft of more ref
pettable connexions than the generality of
the sons of Thefpis. He was born if we
miftakc not, in Wales where his relations
now arc, who gave him a liberal educati
on and intended him for the Bar. He
came to London for accompliihment in
the law, but attention was diverted
from that pursuit by a predilection for th-
Drama. Anxious to try how tar nature
had quali6ed him for a profeffion for which
he felt such fondnefs, and at the farr.e
time anxious to conceal his passion from
his friends, he judged in so remote a place
as Edinburgh his attempt, if untiiccefsful,
would be buried in oblivion.—-He betray
ed his errand by fpcuting in his apart
ment—but communed with none ot the
eorps : Mr. Jackson (the manager) was
ped'onally applied to, and our hero per
formed Jaffier, Othello, See. under the as
sumed name of Cambray—The flattering
reception he met v.ith here induced him
to hope for general approbation in Lon
don—He waited on Mr. Harris about the
opening of Covent Garden Theatre in 87,
without any introduction, and coming to
the point at once, he repeated two or three
fpeeehes so much to the fatisfaClion of hi*
auditor, that a night was instantly fettled
for him to make his debut.—Either from
a desire to conceal his countenance, or a
partiality for the part, he felefted Othello
for his entiee, and the encouragement
given to his fivft efforts, emboldened him
to drop the fable maflc and come forward
as Jaffier, Alexander the Great, &c. but
ftiil under the fictitious name of Csmbray.
In all those characters he was kindly re
ceived, and looked on as a very promising
theatrical candidate. But as his talents
did not create the admiration he widled
and expected, he thought it advifeable to
praftife in the country until his powers
were nearer maturity. The favor with
which his exertions hid been honored in
Edinburgh, pointed ont that city as the
moll genial school for his inftrucb'on ; but
he had scarcely renewed his former e{£i
mation before he was driven from that
stage ill the mod arbitrary, unjust, and
ungenerous manner.
DRACO.
The audience in Edinburgh think them
selves the moil feledt and judicious in the
world. The audience in London they
call an undifcriminating mob—such being
their sentiments, they instantly caughf fire
at the idea of an Englt/h Checld fur palling
their am clever col hint; and after calling a
numerous meeting they went to the thea
tre in a bod)', resolved to vent their indig
nation on Mr. Fennell. Whenever he ap
peared he was saluted with lulling, called
on to answer how he dared to take Jaffier *
from Mr. Wood, and loaded with the
most opprobrious fnve&iyes. He endea
vored to explain, but on hearing a zealot
stigmatise him in the nioft odious language,
his feelings as a man, were so put to the
quick, that he replied, " The person who
fays so is a villain !" This afle.tion not
being generally undcrftood, gave general
offence ; and he was called on to make
fubmiflion, more humiliating if pcffible,
than that formerly requested of Mr. Jas.
Aickin which he refufed complying
with, and in consequence was forced to
quit the Hage.
Though the arbitrary and ilhbetal body
of lawyers became his bitter enemies ; vet
the unprejudiced inhabitants of Edinburgh
thought him ffiamefiilly injured—The {lo
ry spread not only through Scotland, but
England and Ireland—it was unive'fally
talked of and the irascible Caledonians
were universally execrated. Every one
felt for Mr. Fennell, and wished to fee his
wrongs redrefled. Finding so many
friends, and finding jufticc so much on his
fide, he brought an aflion against the ring,
leaders for depriving him of his livelihood,
but here he found himfelf in an aukwatd
predicament To the eternal disgrace
of that country not one advocate could be
found to plead his cause, though it wns
well known to be a good one—until Mr.
Charles Hope and another gentleman ftriod
forth his champions, rather than not res
cue Scotland from the ignominy of being
destitute of advocates to plead the cause of
an opprefTed individual.—But as Sir Hai
ry Wildair fays, " it is hard to contend
with a man in his own profeffion," for lif
ter profccuting the oonfpirators with all
pofable rigor near 12 months, he found
himfelf as distant from redress as when I c
firft began.
" He afterwards performed a few night?
in York, and obtained an engagement ft
Covent Garden last season, when lie peU
formed very feldonii
" In. his person lie is the tailed on t'ic
stage ; he is handsome!)- formed i his faiv,
too, is well adapted for the Diama, and
his voiee is powerful r.nd melodious, and
his eloquence lofty, and fouorous."
*' Mr. Fennell alway: pr:f. rred th? r ''n
raOer of Pierre—but c.vld fioi oliain it,PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 26.
From the American Star of ytjlerday.
Extra £k of the Gazette Nationale, ou
Monitcur Univerfel, No. 276.
facotin Society.
Coupe de Loife in the Chain.
October 1793.
The Republican Society of Charleston
in Carolina, one of the United State's of
America, demand of the Jacobin Club its
adoption.
Hauthier. " We have spilt our blood
tortlie eftablKhment of American liberty-'—
I think that the Americans ought to do
the fame for us, before we grant them
adoption.
A Citizen. " Before engaging them to
intermeddle with our war, it is neceflary
to underlland one another, to come to an
agreement with them. Ido not fee then,
a more efficacious way for the previous
re-nni.on, than an adoption of their foeiety.
Coilot D'Herbois. " Dispatches are
received by the committee of Public Safety,
informing it, that America has permitted
French veiTels to fell in their ports all
English prizes which they might make.
On a close examination of these dispatches
it appears, that although they carry official
marks, they are not from the American
o-overnment; bnt merely from a consul of
one of the Anglo-American cities, who
being nothing but a commercial agent,
and not a political one, may very likely
have written them from interested motives,
rather than authentic authorization. Ne
vertheless, we Ihould not neglect the ad
vantages which may arise from this ad
vance. I conclude, that we agree to this
adoption." RefolrccL
FRENCH INDIA MAX.
This cargo is valued at the lowed efli
mation at seven millions worth of mer-
chandize,
Deductions to l>e mad:
Commiflion of the chief agent
in the sale at 5 per cent.
Commifiion of the auctioneer at
one per cent.
Porterage of the gooes to the
place of sale.
Expences of unloading the vefiU,
Without including in this calculation
all the fnbcommiflions of under agent s, of
ail the auxiliaries that were engaged in it,
and who must have the eoir.miUions of
brokerage. Such a number of persons
were interested in this business, that it is
not astonishing that theie was as much
cabal for assuming the direction of it, as
there was formerly in the Conclave of
Rome for the nomination of a Pope.
The General Advert ifer of this morn
ing fays, It is reported that the commu
nications. from our Minister at London,
arc far from bearing a pacific afpeft.
A Society wr-.s lately formed in Lon
don, called the Bible Socisty, thcde
fign of which is to create a fund for the
benevolent purpose of furnifhing a large
number of Bibles, to be distributed gratis
among the poor people of Franee.
The ship Edward, from Ruflia, yefter
dav morning, ran foul'of the brig Katy,
of'Bofton, near Fort Mifflin, by which
the latter was so much injured that (he
funk immediately, the grcateft part of her
cargo, (flour) howt\er, was foved. A
brig outward bound, at the fame time,
got aground on the Jerfcy fliore, and the
fiMjw Henry and Charles, was damaged in
her stern by rtfnning foul of another ve*!«:i.
In the fitting of the National Conven
tion of France, on the November,
tbe following letter from a Priest. was read:
" Citizens! Lcgiflators!
u Yon now hear the voice of a Friefi,
wfio has'lived forty years by his trade,
but, be now renounces it with pleasure.
LrgiftaSor* 5 I nm now going to make
nvy public cotifrflion, and to declare my
irpcTitstnee: Why (Kould 1 ft ill cherilh
yttjn&ctt ? I bcKeve then, that Religion
its 00 CttWfitfVf ts founded on 1 ruth. 1
Lclie*e they are sH the offspring of pride
ami ignorance—that mtereft has rendered
them &cred, and that rulers, have every
where employed them to eliablifh their
power—{hat foperftition, has always been
the work of Pttcfts, and that they them
frfcrs, are erery where, cither, wicked or
■fed upon liv fa'ifehood or tyranny'.
I bcliuve above all, That Jultice is True
Rtligion—and that no other wuilhip is
nec»flary on the earth, but the practice
of Trite Virtue. I believe also, that Hea
ven is nothing else, than the happy iccol-
TeAion of having been virtuous. I ren
der this solemn homage to Truth—Fana-
ticifm will not hear me, but I brave its
anathemas. Legislators ! A man mull
accustom himfclf to tliis truth, in order to
i>e converted to teaf»n ; and I hope that
:he Priests of all Religions will compre-
lend, to the triumph of I'hilofophy and
tlie l.iberty of Nations, that there is still
a difference between a Priest and an Ha-
nest Man. As for me, I have made my
choice, and I resign to the State a pen
sion of 1500 livres ; but as I am 60 years
old, and without any fortune, I demand
from the nation the means of having ii>
my retreat, bread and milk.
(Signed)
"PAUL ROLAND, ci-devant
" Cure of Villos de Luchon."
Atrafl from a work now in the press
of John Parker of Philadelphia, en
titled " A Vieiv of the United States
ef America."
" The following will be found to be
fume of the principal articles of expor
tation from the United States, daring
the year ending in September 1795.
3,145,255 bulhels of grain and pulse,
(principally wheat, Indian
corn, rye, beans and peas.)
44,752 horses, horned cattle, mules,
,459,723 barrels of flour, and other
meal, bufcuit and rice, re
ducing eafi<s of various Czes
to the proportion of flour
146,909 barrels of tar, pitch, tur
pentine and rosin.
116,803 barrels of beef, pork, bacon,
mutton, sausages, oylters,
tripe, &c. reducing calks of
various fr/.es to the propor
tion of beef and pork bar
rels.
350,000
70,000
231,776 barrels of dried and pickled
fi(h, reducing them to bar
rels of the fame size.
948,115 gallons of spirits distilled in
the United States.
3,300
6,600
Livres 429,900
7,823 tons, I2cwt. and 4 lb. of
pot-a(hes and pearl-a(hes.
112,428 hhds. of tobacco.
60,646,861 feet of boards, plank and
scantling.
19>39 1 tons tirn ber.
18,374 pieces of timber.
t,OBO cedar and oak (hip knees.
71,603,863 (hingles.
31,760,702 (laves anil hoops.
19 f frames of houses.
73,318 oars, rafters for oars & hand-
48,860 fliouk or knock-down calks.
52,381 lihds. of flaxfeed.
sJrporr.'TMEHTs Br AL'THORITT
Die 10—Walter Stewart, Infpeftor
of the Revenue for the Port of Philadel
phia.
Walter Stewart, Surveyor for the Dif
tri<ft of Do.
Daniel Lionel Huger, Marshal of S.
Carolina Pi(tri£h
Jan. 27th —Ray Greene, Attorney of
Rhode Island Diltrift.
—John Driver, Infpe&or & Sur
vevor for Virginia, vice Samuel Redick
re'iigned.
John Boyd of Pennsylvania, lnfpe&or
of Survey, No. z, vice James Collins re
signed.
Feb. 17 —Edward St. Loe Livtrrmore,
Attorney of New Hampfliire, vice J. S.
Sherburne, juu. refignsd.
Recognitions dated 12&. Feb. have been
grantedto Citizen La Forelt, Consul Ge
neral of France, and to Citizen Petry,
Consul for the Port of Philadelphia.
By this Day's Mail.
By the arrival of Captain Browo, from
Guernsey, which phce he left the Bth of
Jar.uerv, we have positive accounts of the
hogs and (heep.
barrels.
spikes.
NEW-YORK, February 24.
RECAPTURE OF TCULOK by -.he
French. Captain Brown does noi ;ecol
left the cxatt' time ot Toulon's being tak
en, but informs, that the report was pre
valent terv days previous to his failing—
When the news firll arrived, it was not
credited ; but before his departure, there
was not the least doubt of its being true,
as confirmations, from various quarters,
had been received at Guernsey. The Eng
liih on their leaving the harbor, set fire to
several fail of French veflcla, not being
able to take them off.
He likewise confirms the account of
General O'Hara, with the men under his
command, having been taken, some days
before the Recapture of Toulon.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in
Newport,
" A young man, by the name of Dani
el Allen, jun. who failed for the Indies 3
years ago, with capt. Jacob Smith, was
drowned at the city of Canton, Oct. 19,
1792. The effects contained in his chest
are lodged at Mr. John Brown's store in
Providence, where his friends may obtain
them by making application. It is defjr
able that this information should bepublifli
ed in the public papers, as it is not cer
tainly known where his parents reside. It
is faidbv one, they belonged to Albany,
by another to Springfield, and by a third
that his fether kept a public house near
the springs of Saratoga."
On Wednesday the 19th inft. departed
this life, Lawiance Korthright, Esquire,
an eminent merchant of this citv.
ARRIVED,
Brig Rebecca, Brown,
Geotge and Harriot, Boston
Schr. Eagle, Brown Tortuga, Hifpaniola
Sloop Succcfs, Swaine,
Extradt of a letter from New-York, dated
February 23
" Capt. Benjamin Paddock has this
day arrived here from Guernsey, in the
brig Rebecca, Capt. Brown—after a pas
sage of 43 days—He informs, that the
city of Toulon is evacuated by the com
bined armies, which account may be de
pended on—Capt. Paddock saw it in the
English papers—and saw fcveral prisoners
who had come from France, all confirming
the said account.
Another letter fays, the Englilh burnt
seven fail of the line in the upper harbor,
which they could not bring away—and
that they quitted the place in fitch haile
as to leave great part of their stores behind.
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING, Feb. 26,
Will be performed,
A Comic OpKra, called
Love in a Village.
Sir William Meadows, Mr. Morris.
Justice Woodcock, Mr. Bates.
Hawthorn, Mr. Darley.
Young Meadows, Mr. Marshall.
Eustace, Mr. Darley,jun.
Hodge, Mr. Francis.
Deborah Woodcock, Mis. Shaw.
Lucinda, Mrs. Warrell.
Rofetta, Mrs. Marshall.
Madge, (firft time) Miss Willems.
In Afl a STATUE SCENE and
DANCE by the CharaSerr.
Servants at the Statue—Mr. Warrell,
Mr. Bliflet, Mr. Rowfon,Mrs. Rowfon,
Mrs. Bates, and Mrs. De Marque, &c.
After tht Opera, the
CALEDONIAN FROLIC.
To which will be added, a Comedy, in two
ASSy written by the late David Carricky
CALLED
The Guardian.
Mr. Hartley, Mr. Whitlock.
Sir Charles Clackit,. Mr. Morris.
Young Clackit* Mr. Finch.
Servant, Matter W arrell.
Lucv, Mrs. Rowfon.
Harriet,. Mrs. Marshall.
Before the overture to the Opera, the Pre
sident's March will be performed, and previ
ous to the Comedy a mifcellaneousfvmphony,
composed of favocite airs—the reft of the
music being feltdcd for the evening, it is re
fpeftfully hoped that no call on the orchestra
will be made, as it cannot be complied with.
* * As inconveniencies to the public have
arisen frrm the Box-took being opened on the
days of performance only, in future attend
ance will be given at the office in the Theatre
every day from ten till one, and on the days
of performance frcm ten till three o'clock in
the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, it is
refpedlfully requeued, may be addreflcU to
i Mr. Franklin, at the Bos OSce..
CONGRESS
House of Rrprcfintatives.
Tuesday Ftbiuary zy.
" An ast in alteration of the ast (of
establishing a Mint" received from the'
Senate, was read the third time, and pas
sed the Houfc this day without amend
ment.
'J.'he House then took into confedera
tion a memorial of Arthur St. Clair, pray
ing a settlement of an old account of
services and expences as a Commifiioner,
for holding a treaty with certain Indian l
Tribes—The difcuflion of this memorial
took up the time till the adjournment,
without a final decision's taking place.,
Wedncfday, Feb. 26.
Several petitions were read and refer
red
Mr. S. Smith called up a moiion which
he laid on the table a few days since, the
object of which ie r that a committee (hou!<S
be appointed to conlider and report on the
propriety of remitting the Duty on Im
ported Bar-Iron, in certain cases. This
motion was agreed to, and a committee
of three, appointed.
Mr. Ward called up for confideraticnr
and decision thereon, the report of the
Secretary of War, on the petition of
Abraham Watson. The report was read
-it is in faVor of the petitioner, but ftatcs
that the circumstances are limiW to those
attending the cafe of Cel. Ely, in whose
favor two bills had puffed the House, tho'
they were afterwards negatived by the Se
nate.
It was moved that the report be accept
ed, and that a committee be appointed ley
bring in a bilf conformably to the Secre
tary's report, so far As refpefts the certifi
cate therein mentioned—To this motion
some opposition being made, it was at
length agreed, that it ftiould lie on the
table for the present.
Guernsey
jcrcmie
A representation was rend from the
pilots of Ocracock Bar—and referred to
the Secretary of the Treafnry.
M. Fitzlimons moved that that part of
the President's message which relates to
the arms and military stores cf the United
States, be referred to a committee with
inftrudions, to report whether any, and
what additions are necessary to be made
to any part of the fame—with the pro
bable cxpence of such addition*.
Mr. Baldwin brought forward A motion
which was read and agreed to, that the
committee appointed to enquire into the
tranfa&ions of the treasury department be
authorised to fend for persons, papers and
records.
Mr. Carnes offered a resolution, the
purport of which is, that the Prefideirt of
the United States be requested to lay be-
fore the House a statement of the amount
of the monies that have been expended in
making preferits to the Creek Indians since
the treaty held at New-York j alfothe a
mount ol'expencee attending the formation
of that treaty —after a few reifiarks it was
agreed that this motion fcould lie en the
table till to-morrow.
In committee of the whole on the bill
For the relieff>f Lucy Clark—Mr. Bourn
in the chair.
This bill provides for granting a sum of
money which was due to her late husband
Thomas Clark deceased, for public fcrvi
ces and for the hire of a negro slave, for
whose time in the public service a bond
had been recovered against the petitioner.
The bill was opposed, as contravening
the ast of limitation, and as opening, a
door to innumerable other claims now bar
red by law—if taken up, it ought to be
done on a general principle.
It was supported as providing for a
cafe Handing on its own merits, attended
with peculiarly unfortunate circumstances
that bore extremely hard on the petitioner
and these were principally imputable to
the officer who had neglie&ed to make the
proper returns in season.
The committee on motion, at length
rose, and were discharged from any fur
ther proceedings thereon.'
It was then moved that the bill (hould
be re-committed to a special committee.
This motion did not obtain.
It being moved by Mr. Nicholas, to
take into consideration the confidential
communications of the President of the
United States, for the p::rpofe of deter
mining whether they {hall be made pub
lic—The galleries were cleared.
A Correspondent observes, that where
a question can poflibly arise, whether a
thing submitted in confidence ought to be
made public or not, it is instead of a tuou
fand arguments in favor of secrecy.JAMES LEACH,
Rh SPr CTH'LI Y infoims In* Im-ncs ■'"»!
the [Mih't , T;>jj 'torn ■hr < nout c 1; t
h« h3B »CiCiv>d, hoir tevrrAi rel|x ttahh (Jmtlc
hum. he '> induced uncr more. »o ' >rb«irk sn ih»-
PAPhK l.lNE—viid wcmldoil" ln« <civw . s 10
«dl • ht.l'r Cicnflctmn, who r,.n place confidence
in him; «i nd h-' a (To»<** rh'i'r vhn employ, him,
lii 1' ih 11 cor.fidcnce Hull n*»t he n.i'ji.ari
Imt it shall br his constant rnd'-avor, to pay the
ArII attention tn their belt fnteicft, in all hr
jfocra'i<xrs whatev>r. lie I'm* iWkni tW CharhHer,
in Siatc-Slrect, over Mi. David f'owrtjeni, Watch
Make.'i Shop. Where PUBLIC SI-XL'Rl
"t*ihS, ol a!l kind 9, are and fold; and
Whfre Coinmiilion Bt'finefs of ill kii-"!«, will he
tranfaflcd on iralonahle tTms. 11 OL'Sh*» <;rtd
VfcSSKLS will be constantly exposed lor lale, on
com million.
* # * Cacti paid for Salem, Providence, and
Portfmouih UIL! S.
N. B. If d''v Gtif'.tm ?n in Philj'dc'pf-i-t. or
Ncu-A'oik, Ids u!.\ liu/ihff\ in t>,irl>i,i at Hr.jhn,
in Puitrt ' ioo*n, he z*. til be It t; c»i-
ployed on conmi/fion.
Barton, Jan. 24, 179.4.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nthday of April next,
at the lioufe of John Tbomfon, in Pei'th-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY,
THE Lot contains el<;v.u «cus, on which is
an oichara of Rafted apple t'ifis, a well of
c*cfcll< si» vl-atcr, a largr ft'>ne c. stern, and a very
commodious fiable an'd coach-houf<, and a great
q.nnniy of thr- b«ft building ftoncs in the wal s
of the houif) wiiich was formerly built lor
re (fid tiidc of the Governors of N'ew-Jrrfty. The
flotation of this Lot is f<» well known tof its
liealtbmefs and beautiful profpefl of (he R-iri on
river to the weft of the bav, and Sandy-Ho ;k to
the east, that a furfher defc.iption isunn c. ffj'ry.
Th(f conditions of fair will be, one third of the
put chafe mortcy fti he paid on tlir fit ft day of
May next, when il goOci and lufficiult Deed will
be given to thv puichafer* by Walt** Ru-
The Rfu R-D| Eul. Prrfjdent of the Board of
PropnMovs ot tne taifern DiviGin of Ncw-
Jersey, sod the remaining two rhi-ds fatikfd£lo
iily secured m « qua I annual pat mints.
B\ order of the iioaul.
JAMF.S PARKER, Rcgifler.
Perth-Amboy, rWt'uiry 5,1794. 2aw2ni
War Department.
L
January 30th 1794.
INFORMATION is. heu -\ given to all the
military invalids of the United States,that the
funis' to vJhirh ihey aree*ttiiled for fix months
of their annua') pention, frofn the fotjnh day of
Seoinnbet i ind which w ill become due
011 nc 5 b d•% of 17041 will be paid on
the said day by the Cowmtfumitif of rhe Loans
wr.bin theftates refpefctivrly, ander the usual re-
filiations.
A ;»T>licaiions of cxccu ors an>J adminiftraiors
mult be »cc6mp*n'fd with evidence of
t!u it rcfp< o?ve offi. es, and alio <sf the'rime thi
invalids d<cd, whof* p?ufi<>n thry nuy-claim.
By com ma no of th Prcfid nt
of the United S 9'rs,
H. KNOX,
Sea clary oj IVar.
The*prin'fT* in the ielf><fhve stats* arc
Kqacftcd u> cubiilh (he abjvc *ti their
p*rs 'or tt»r spice ot iwo mnn lis.
jjiunry 30
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE" BY
M. Carey,No. 11 K^High-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Comment art on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the lejl sense in the world.
r T" , HIS little book is written in a stile altogether
JL novel, and is adapted to all capacities, a*
well as to ail claflTes ol peopl< , merchant, mc
thaui s ?nd■ farmers. Sfcf'h a reputation this
work acquired, that it h-s paifrd ih o th'iec im
pTeflions in the earteriv Hates, and many houlc
holdersdeem it so ufeful as to p'uT chafe a copy
lor every adult in theii families. Pk i c k 2s.
Fel'tinrv 4. dtt
Notice is hereby given,
r pHAT the fjib'fcriber lus been duly ap-
X painted Ad'miniftratrix on the eftafe of
M'.< Excelleury John Hancock, Esq. late bf
Bottom, in the county of Suffolk, Jeceafed, and
has taken upon hertejf that trust, by giving J
bonds"os the law dirc&s—and all persons ir
terefttd, are defirtd to take notice accord, i
i.igly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Noticc.
ALL perfotrs who have arty demand* airainft
ihe Eftatc of his l.,te Excellency JOHN
HANCO'-IK, E f "q. deccnfcd, are requested to
exhibit the finite to the Subscriber, Attorney
to the Adminiftirntrix of said Elhrte : And all
persons who (land indebted to fald Estate, are
r--Qiteded to fettle with him immediately; as the
A# of Limitation of Actions, which is to take
place on the firft ii yof December next, wiJJ
otherwise render if ffre/fary for him to com
mence suits aga ntt them-
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, Nor. 13, 1793.
N- B The Prinre-s rhroufjbout this Com
monwealth, are reqiirfteri to insert ehi<c in tbeir
refpeftive newspapers, and forward their ac
counts for the fame, ta J. M.
N O R R I S-COU R T,
Back of the New Library, betweeH Ciiefuut
and Walnut-Street
George Rutter,
Respectfully inferos hu Frftncis ami
t!if public in general, that he continues
(4iiy ng <»n the iMifinrft of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
jLikcwife, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
fir door? or wiodovv-fliottersjdcnfc in tJie mofl
jelcjgant mannei, and with dilpatch.
O ders from the country will be thankfully
received; And <!lily a t tinned fb.
December 30, dtf
Juit Imported,
Fivm Londok, Dublin and Glasgow,
And now opening for 'ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Marht Jlreety
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF feOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NfeV Annual ftegiftfcV for 1 792
European Magazine foi the firft fix
ths of 1 793
Gibbons decline and fail of t lifeßomanEmpire
Memoirs of t lie Manchefler Jociety, 3 vulj.
Priestly on matter and ipi rit
On fchriltianiiy
Disney's life of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Auoirs of Guv Jolt
Memtv.a collection of eflays
Varieof PrufTia's works
Cahn observer—by Mackintosh
Kullell's ancient and modern Europe
Laughonie's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly fjrTt
Hlegant extracts of natural history
S tugnier and Bt iffon'S voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagifcar
Town (end's travels in Spain
TaflVs Jerufalenj delivered
Stnllie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's hiftoty of quadrupeds
Bntfon abridged
History of b i ds
Piiilips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
Hiftoty of France, in 3 vols.
Curi'dfities o'f literature, 3 vols'.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 voli.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Tmlay's deferiptidn of Kentucky
Prefenlf nate of IJJova-Scoria
Present state of Hudson's fiily
Prelton 011 maf»nry
Lavater on abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Ne-cker on executive power
Kilfes of Secundum
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vailfaint's travels, with fiiperb engravings
Downman's infancy '
Adair's history of Anierican Indians
Beniijgton on materialism and immaterialifm
Bercllold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life 3r.d works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's transition of Tacitns
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's /ketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion?, or the history of BenigrtuJ
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse di&ionary
Reveries of fohtnde
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackboufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. &r Hid.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
clsm
man
Wall s on the prevention of dileafe's
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travelsintoDenmark.RnflTa,Poland,&c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mi'let'S northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's practice of pliyfic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca*
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of cliildrerf'
Onincy's dfpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Rvan on the aftlinn
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordvce on digeftibn
Wirherinw on rhe fox glrtve
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armio4
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's dissertations
London pra&ice of phytic
Bell's fnrgerv
Chajitai's chemistry.
FOR SALE,
By MATHF.W CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street,
An Essay on Slavery:
Deligned to exhibit in a new point of view,
its efftcii oh moiafs, indujlry, and the pence of
oeiety. Some lafls and calculation* ate offered
so prove the labor of freemen to be much mote
produflive than that of Jlavcs ; that countries ate
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy tbe fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the uicefLiy conclusion, that
flavfry is impolitic as well as unjufi.
Price 25 Cents,
February 15
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, W«ll-ftreet, New-York
THE Subscriber intending »«> confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
SHOCKS on COMMISSION, bfgs ledve to of
si r his fcrv ices to his friends and others* in the
line o( a Stock Broker. Thole who may plcafe
to faVor him with thrir hufinefs, may depend
upon having it tranfa&cd with the uimoft fide
lity and difpaich.
Orders f row P 11 3 cf elpli *a | Bo fton j or ony
other part of the United States, will he ftriflly
auended to. LEONARD BI.EECKER.
PHI L AH F L n-i i A . 1- l-mary 13, 1 794.
PROPOSALS
Foi piiutiitg by Subscription,
A W-'»k,io he <• titlee 1 ,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Pennsylvania State Trials.
THE v\ant of fufficient information of the
state trials of Gieai-Bri'ain in the early
pi nods of that government is now lamented :
Hi Herto there hath been but one trial in the
state of Pennsylvania on impediment :—ar.d
hcrealfo it is to be regretted, that, being nrg
ledied at the time, the public arc now left with
out fufftciefit information on the fukjc£t of that
trial, it it however in this work drfigned toref
cue'what can be colle&cd thereof from fouices
of indifputaple authority, f„ ,hat the fame ftiall
be preserved from obhvion.
Another impeachment ard the second is now
depending. An officer is charged by the late
Hotifc of Reprcfentat.vcj, who ha'h for many
years been largely confided in by this Kite, and
hath long b< en at the head of the financial de
partment of the fame, arid it imports the citi
zens to know his conduß, and the circumstance*
which ma\ be brought forward on his trial.
In this work the Editor will be cartful to
state the fails, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers before
the public.— With this view—
The folio-wing Terms are rrfpeflfully
fulmitted to the Public :
I. The Work ihall be orintcd in .oflavo, with a
good type, on fine paper, and delivered to
fubferibers at the refpe&ive places where the
subscriptions are taken in, as soon as the work
fiiall be complrated.
IT. As no conje£lure can well be made, as to
the length ©f the prtfent trial, the size of the
volume cannot be afcertaincd at this time
Btrt the {jrice (hall not exceed that of feme of
the latest publications in this city.
111. It will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental circiimftanccs that may occur during
the trial of John Nicholfon, Efquite, Comp°-
troller-GencraJ of this commonwealth, wuh
thcarguments ofcounfc! on boih fides, together
with the articles of impeachment, and thfr
pleas and replications at large, the si veral re
solutions of the two branches of the state Lr
giflature, refpetfing this impeachment", and
the final decision of the SENATE lefpe&ing
that officer.
To which will be prefixed, as much as can be
collc&ed from authentic documents, of the im
neachment, tiial. and aequital of «Ke late Francis
Hopkinfon. Esquire, Judge of the Court ol
Admiralty for the state of Pcnnfvlvariii, during
the late war, never before pnbliftied.
No money will be required before the deli
very of the book.
Subscriptions will be received by Francis
Bailey, No. 116, High-street; Wriglev and Ber
riman, No. 149, Chefnut-tired, and by the dif
ferent booklellers in this city; Jacob Bailey,
Lancaftcr ; Yundt and PaitonJ Baltimore, and
by the Editor.
EDMUND HOGAN T .
N. B. The price will be enhanced to non
(Vbfcnbers. Feb. 18. taw f
City Commissioners Office,
January 30, 1794.
JN pursuance of a Refolvi ot the C'ommflrt
Council, dated the 20th day of January,
1794, for dividing the City into five Diftrifta,
by lines drawn East and Weft, whereof cach ol
the City Commissioners is tn take the fuperin
tendance of one of the said Ditth&s, and to be
accountable for the cleansing, good older and
regularity of (he fame.
The Commiflioners have accordingly made
the following arrang* ment for the prefect:
Dijltift the \JI. N*ihan Boyi, to have the
charge of that part of the ftrrcts, lanes and alleys
from C<dar-ftrect, to the north fidd of Spiuce
fticet.
Dijitifl the 2d. Hugh Roberts, from the north
fide of Spruce-Greet to the north fide of Walnut
street.
DifiriSl the g</. JoTrph Cla'ypoole, from the
north fiat of Walnut to the south tide of Hiyh
ftreet.
Dijlrifl the 4M. William Moulder, from the
north fide of High, to the north fide of Mulberry
street.
Dijlritt the §th. Nicholas Hicks, from the
north fide of Muiberiy, to the north fide of Vine
street.
Fxt' nR from the Minvf'S,
JOHN MEASE, Clerk.
N B. The carriage way in Market-street, is
under thecharge of the Commiflioneis generally,
for the present, the foot-ways on the north and
south fides thereof, are conm&ed with the ad
joining DiftT)ditefpe€lively.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogf*cads and in cases of 50 bottlrs each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, and quarto cadis,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Frouta.ltcfcC,
lin. 2, 1794,
TO BE SQLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —also a Country Seat
within 6 milt sol' the City, with 9 acres of
fond, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PIiIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twentv Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
AMAICA,
■dn Aa for giving validity in this Island t„
Probates to be taken, by certain Officers
hi the United States of America, of D-eds
to be there executed, and afo to Exempli
fications of IVills there proved,
WHEREAS,fince the separation from the
crown of Great-Britain of the late co
lonies, now calied the Un'ted States of Ame
rica) g r cat inconveniences have arisen to many
of his Majesty's fubjefls occasionally refidiiig
in those States, for want of a legal provifioii
refpe&ing the probates and acknowledgments
of deeds executed in the said States, and in
tended to operate in this island : For remedv
whereof, we, your Majesty's dutiful and loyal
fubjefts, the Lieutenant-Governor, Council,
and AU'embly of this your Majesty's island of
Jamaica, huinlly beseech your Majesty that
it may be enaiied ; Be it therefore enaaed,
and it is hereby etiacfled and ordained bv the
authority of the fame, That, from and im
mediately after the palling of this afl, any
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed
whatsoever, which fliall be hereafter executed
in any of the United States of America, and
fhaJl be proved by a fubferibing witness, or
acknowledged by the party or parties, before
any of his Majesty's Consuls or Vice-Consuls
refidir.g in any of those State*, or before the
Chief justice of any of the said States, or be
fore the Chief Justice or am- of the Judges of
the Supreme Court cf the said United States,
and certified under the seal of any of the said
States, or the seal of the said United States,
ihall be, and the fame is hereby declared to
be, as good and effectual in the law as if such
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed,
had been refpediively proved or acknowledged
before a Judge of any court of record in this
island ; any law, custom, or usage, to the con
trary notwithlianding : —Provided always,
That in all cases wherein the right or property
of any woman under coverture is intended
to be conveyed, she shall be examined separate
and apart from her husband, by the Judge
who attests the probate, and the said examina
tion (hall be certified in like manner as is prac
tised in Great-Britain or in this Island.
11. And be it further enacted by the autho
rity aforefaid, That the probate'of any la(f
will and testament, taken before any officer
authorized so take probates of wills in anv of
the said States, and exemplified under the
seal of the State where such probate /hall have
been taken, (hall be, and the fame is hereby
declared to be, as good and effectual in the
law, as if such probate had beetr taken before
the ordinary of this island ; any law, cuftein,
or usage, to the contrary in any wife notwith
standing.
PaJJed the AJJimbly this 11th day of Novem
ber, 1793.
WILLIAM BLAKE, Speaker.
J afled the Council, this 14th November, 1701.
G.ATKINSO--., CI, Council.
I consent, this bth December, 1793.
ADAM WILLIAMSON.
Vera copia extur. G. Atkinson, Sec.
*** The American Printers are requested
to publish this a<ft in their several new (paper?.
C 5" Proposals having been publifhcd Injl
autumn, for continuing the Gazette of the
United States as an half weekly paper, in
conjundion with a daily paper, frequent ap
plications (poflage unpaid) are made by per
fans at a dijlance for the former —but as the
terms proposed on that occafwn were not com
plied with, the plan an half weekly paper
is relinjui/hed.
Cj~ As the Editor has repeatedly been
fubjecled to postage cn the Letters of persons,
who have in that way applied to purchase
the Fount of Long Primer which he hat
forfait —those who wijb to buy those types,
are informed that the price is twer.ty cents
per pound, ca/b —to be paid at their delive
ry—the fount weighs about 250 ft,.
PHILADELPHIA :
Prixttd by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
m<Sc th—!-ti*