f >
EVENING A D V E R T I S E R.
----- - - ' f
[No. 124 of Vol. V.] Wednesday, May 7, 1794- [Whole No. 520.]
For Amflerdam,
The new ftft-failing;, copper
% bottomed 9HIP
mk ADR!AN A,
K. Fifzpa trick, Master.
BUILT of live oak aid cedar and was in
tended fcr a Liverpool Trader, will Sail with
a!! cpnveuicnt speed. For freight or pafiige,
having ejtctllent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
fij. B, Ptfli-njjers will" be landed in Eilg
lancHf raqnired.
March 6, Cll> '
For Sale or Charter,
' : *^lfijyandromJCME,
American Lotuxn)
John Moore y Mqjitr•
iv» a. (bout gpod veifci, about tAv-t* years o«d,
bnrrhon 252 ton*,, has only made three voy-
and'thay be Tent to Tea at a final J ex
pence. Sne maybe seen at Vlne-ibeet wharf,
*j»d'the teritts marie known bv application tfo
WHARTON LEWIS.
March 2t.
For Nerfotk & Fredericksburgh?
LITTLE SALLY,
£7 John Earl, Master.
jx tuuiui; good veflH, will fail in a few
days. For freight or p flagc, apply to the
master ooi?ard at Chefmitftreet wharf, or
fa
JOSEPH ANTHONY iff 50?/.
Mar-it 1 31. - dtf
For Baltimore,
BJLTTmore,
fiKuY ijEtfSONi Madier.
Bin en about 140- o is, is intended to fail
6)6- as her- '.liward ca go is dij- barged, un
hrf3 *r- fewr d- t*et»-♦*»- <» e-t-HiT- "----|
r -r i'. ight .ipply. to the Captain 01 board
« riall ilt ills wharf, or to
SAWTEL MIERS' FISH-ER,
IVho htrvtr for Sale,
A PEW PIPES
Cargo TenerirFe wine
And a !ewpipes Sweet Do.
ilxcelient S'aerry Wine in quarter calks
London P >r.rer in 42 gallon calks
White an(l Red Lead and Spamfh Brown
Tin plates in boxes
An aiT»itment of East India Fans, Nan
ke ns an 1 S lies
With a general aflortment of Merchandize
as it'trad \
a h Mo. i, 1794 dtf
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Dutk,
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland Shectbfg,
"Juniper Berncs,
GlassWare, oil. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious sizes.
Sheathing Paper,
i win's Iron, square and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c.&c.
FOR SALE BT
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
fcculd application be made within a few days ;
otherwise Jhe will take freight for Amster
dam.
March 1, 1794. d—tf
The following Certifr
caic of the funded three per Cent Siock of the
Prtm ftic Debt of the -United States (landing on
Ihe books of the Treefu'v of the said United
Stafrj, in tl>e names of 'Donnald and Burton of
London, merrhants, and signed by Joseph
Nouffe, RegifteF of said Treatury, to wit
No. £g/6i, dated 2sih August 1792 for
and 53 ccn t*> wa S' ttanlmiued from Lon
don in the (hip Peter, Paul Hoffey, pi after,
hound for New York, and has been loft.—
The Subfcnber intending to apply to the Trca
fuiyof the. United Slates have the fame re
newed, defines all petfons who are inteiefted fyi
the W\6 certificate, to make their obje&tons
if any they have.
Francis Macy.
PhiUd. March 37. dSw
Wharton and Greeves,
lUtve removed their Counting Hpule from
Ware' ftrett, to Morton's what/,
IVhere tiny bf¥P e f cr Sale,
Madeira and sherry Wine,
fit for immediate tife
Gin in citfes,
Souchong Tea,
Slack Pepper,
RuJJia Mutts,
Cdrks,
Jesuits Bark,
Co fee, and
Eighty Hhds.prirne Tobacco.
ftkiy j. d —_
City of VV>afliington.
THh Subl'cnbsrs to the Article* of Agree
ment of the u ColtTmbian Society" arq ie
qn«fVed to meet at Mr. det's 1 avem
rn th« crty of Phrladefphia, on Monday the
26til day of the prefect nvonth, at v 2 o ci«»<Jc
in order 10 ehoofe a boarti of Managers, &c«
in conformity with the 9th article of their a
greement.
Ja.mes Greenleaf.
, N. B. Dinner will b. o dertd on t»e Table
at 3 o'clock for such of tfie Suhfcribers as
may ehoofr to pass' a fecial bour affer the
of the day is ftnifhed.
May .5 d<-9.6M.
Advertrfemeiit.
The Editor of the American Star propos
ing to publilfi his paper DALLY, without any
augmentatiirn of the prefeVtp iee, is obliged
r<>"ftifpend the publication of if until ilie i sfh
iwlK on account of some arrangements.
May 5- » 3 { .
Excellent CLARET,
In hogsheads a»d m casts of 50 boiilcs each.
also, v ,
A few cases Champaigiie Wiiie ;
MADEIRA
In pipes,.hoaibeads and charier casks,-
FOR SALE BT
. . JAHM VA.IIfIHA.M.
No. in, South Fioiu ttiee:.
lan. 2, 1794.
JUST PUBXJSHED,
AND TO BE' SO t-D BV
THOMAS DOBSON,
No. 4.1, south Second ftreei,
Extract of a letter from a gen
tleman in America to a triend in England, on
( the Subject of Emigratioti—prite i-Bxh of at
, dollar.
Ecclefiaflical EflMifhmenls detrimental to
a State.
Price I 8 of a Dollar.
Ap'il 22. niw&Pyy
J ust Imported,
in the Ship Edward, Capt. Cra/idon, front
St. Petersburg in Riilfia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG'S BRISTLES.
AND FOR SAT.E BY*
John Donnaldfon,
No. 21, Walnnt-ilreeU
March 4,1794. d "iw.itawtf
The annual election
FOR
Directors and a Treasurer
OF TWE
Library Company, of Philadelphia,.
, WILL he held at the Library, in Kiftn
street, 011 Monday the fifth of May next, at;
three e'clock 111 the afternoon,when the trea
f'uret will attend td receive the annual pay
ments-.
As there are fevera! fbares on which fines
are due, the owners of them, or tUeir rep'e-,
fentative;, are hereby notified, that they will
I>3 forfeited, agreeably to the Uws of the
Company, unless the ftid arrears are paid off
on.the fifth day of May, or within ten days
, after.
By Order of the Directors.
BENJAMIN IV. MQ.RGAN,
Secretary
April 7. m&wtsth May.
IIME office Df the President mid Directors
ef the Insurance Compa,ny of North
AMtRICA, is removed to JJo. 107, South
Front street, being-the south east corner of
From ai d Walnutftreets.
M»y 1. t&f i in.
—■—'
I FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Maiket-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery,
l)ehgned to extribit in a new point of view
it* etfetts on morals, indujlry, and the peace oj
society. Somd fa£U and calculations are offered
c<> prove the labor of freemen to b t much more
produflive than that of jlaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
tabor ; and hence the n p ce(Tary conclusion, thai
flavfcrty is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 35 Cents. dtf
February 15.
r FO RSA L E,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
fiiperior quality in pipes, imported ill the Ihip
Wil nington.
OID SHERRY WINE of the firft quality
in quarter caflts, imported 1 in the brig Nancy
capt. Gwin. from Cadix
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RAISINS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIfFfi WINES,in pipes
Uli'ifc. and quarter calks, imported in the OWp
Thomas, capt. Skinner.
A few quarter calks of old particular bill ,
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who has alio, just arrived and ior fade
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lijbon Salt.
A quantity of empty BAGS for sale.
April $. w&sim.
"" (NO. 60 )
Dijlrid of Pennsylvania, to iuit :
Be it remembered that
on the twelfth day of ApWlin the eighteenth
year of the Independence of the (Jiiited'Stdtes
, of America, Benjairiin Davies of the said diA
t rift bath deposited in this office the title of a
map, the right whereof he claims as propri
ttpr, in the words following, to wit ;
a A Ground PJan of the 1 City atid Sub
{ " urbi of Philadelphia, tafaeh frbnl actual
" »—- —• - ; ittiiirr if
" of all the squares, streets and alleys in
" the City and liberties ; of the situation
" of all the principal public buildings ; of
" the rivulets, and as much of the 1 Canal
•' as lies within the compass of the "draft,
" by H- P. Folic : publilhed by the PropH
" etor, Benjamin Davies."
In conformity to the ast of the Congress of
tht United States, etititledan aift fbr the en
couragement of learning, by securing the co
pies of maps, charts'and books to the authors
and proprietors of Rich copies, during the
times therein mentioned.
- SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Dlftril/lof Pehnfylvania.
April 9. vScS2W
TO BE SOLD,
And entered upon the fit ft of May,
The noted EJlate, called
JohnJon Hall:
Lying in the Moba w'< country, state of New
York, forpierly the feat of Sir William John
fori, containing about seven hoadred acres of
. laftd, which is of the very best quality ; toge
ther with the stock, and farming utenftls. The
buildings are large and convenient, and fit for
; a gentleman's f&t. The payments will be made'
easy, on good security. For further particulars
mqtfire of George Metcalf, Esq. onthe premis
es, of Silas Talbot, Esq. at Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Brothers, in New York, or
of the fubfetiber in*-Providence.
Jabez Bowen.
persons who
undertake to cut timber or wood ot any kind
whatever, from any lands of the real estate of
the late Richard Stockton Esq. deceased, in
the western prccinft of the county of Somerset
in the state of New Jersey, under a pretence of
a right to cut oh lands atfjacetit, are requeftedto
defilt ffonrfo doing, or they will be proceed
,d against in such manner as may prove trou
blesome and expensive to themselves.
' April 16. »w&sgw
Philad. April 22, 1794.
* * Notice, agreeably, to charter, is here
c. g-Tven to the members of the Corporation
■ for the Relief of Poor and DiJlreffedPrefby
tteriart Ministers, ctnd oj tbi Poor and Dif
tre/fed Widows and children of Prejbyterian
Mlnifters, that a meeting of said corporation
is to take place, on the 2id day of May next,
in the second Presbyterian church in the city
of Philadelphia, at 4 o'clock P. Mv for the
rlifpatch of all such bufirrefs as may then be
br<st»eWt before the board.
ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary of tbe Corporation.
tuth&s6t 1
Philadelphia.
Tranjlaicdfrom the Ley den Gazette, March
1th —From Manheim Feb. 26.
Thtfe following are the most exact ideas
which we have of the petitions of the French
troops—The army of the Rhiney command
ed by General Michault, since the departure
of General Pichegrue, is divided into three
bodies—The firft which forms the left wing
has its head quarters in tRe valley of Neu-
Jtadt, and fends its patroles to Furckheim —
It now extends from Neivjladt to Franken-
Jiein, Tripjiadt, and Kay/erjlautem —The se
cond, of which the head quarters are at Schif
ferjladt occupies the borders of Rehbach. —
General Defaife has the cofnmand of the ad
vance giiard, the fame, who surprized, some
time since the' poll of Oggerjheim ; froih
whence he fends off from time to time de
tachments against Mundenheim ; polls which
are still occupied bp the German troops.—
The third body which is the principal,
and which is commanded by General Mich-
Milt iA p'erfon cbvefsStTie Rhine to the envi
rons of Spires and Germerjheim—His head
quarters which were the convent of Horil
■ bach, are transferred to Kircbe-veder due
league from Neuftadt. The French at Spires
and Germerjheim, are commanded by Gen.
Delmas—All these corps belong to the army
of tfi'i Rhine, since it is certain the ariAy (?f
the Mafe'Ne has quitted the environs of Deiii-
Ponts. The garrison of this city is : C6rit{sS
fed of ten thoufend troops, Bavarian Pala
tines ; one thousand grenadiers, 400 huflars,
and 300 Austrian artillery. General Count
Browne, returned the 16th of this month
from Moytnce, where he conferred wish the
Marechal Mollendarjf,, who takes,the dky af
ter fo-morfctW the chief command of the
Austrian army —which had been under GoUiit
Wallis, in confeq»ence of his being the oldest
General, and not the Prince of Wald*ck. —
Weare afliired that the Prince will immedi
ately quit this army to replace in Italy, 6en*
Fins, who retires on account of his age, or
perhaps some other cause.
I'TVnt w ■' i /L frfc .ucr.7ir-. f__
Kingston, March 28.
Extract of a letter from L'Arcahaye,
dated 21ft March;
" Yesterday all the vessels at Port au-
Prince, mads their escape from ther.ce,
but were prevented going further thaa
this by Captain Rowley and captain Per
kins. The cause of this sudden bufmtfs,
was owing to the parties there falling out;
-»-thecotifequcnce was dreadful: they put
all the better fort they could lay hold of
to death, which amounted to 600.
" From this tranfaftlon we may short
ly expert to be in poffeflion of it, but am ,
1 mUch afraid they Will set fire to the town
- before we get in ; they have destroyed the
plain close by it a few days ago. The
Brigands came within fix miles of this
town a few nights ago, and destroyed one
of the fineft buildings in St. Domingo,
and cut off the head of one unfortunate
fellow they found there.''
Foreign Intelligeitcc.
———.
LONWtf.
HOUSE OF COMMONS.
February 17.'
The American lntercourfe BiH was
read a third time and passed.
The Land Tax Bijl piaffed the Com
mittee of. the whole House, and p.erfons
profeffiag the Catholic Religion, wefe re
lieved from the customary charge of dou
ble Land Tax. They are to pay only
four shillings in the pound in future, like
other fubje&s.
The Malt Bill also passed a Coasiftit
tee of the whole House.
Mr. Wilberforce said that there had
been some npprehenfion by many that his
motion wottld go to the total abolition ps
the slave trade. His iaeason that fnbj«?6t,
went to that length some time ago, and he
had altered his sentiments upon that sub.
je£t, but the motion with which he fhoulj
conclude, was confined to the preventio n
of any supply by us to any of the foreignfeTrltories with slaves from the Coast. of ,
of Africa That was a part of.tKte trade
vVhich in fact could hardly how be laid to
exist, and the main object of his motion
was that it (hould not be Yevived; and
therefore it was unnecefiary for him to Ar
gue the point at length, he (hould wait to
hear what Was to be urged agaiiift his mo
tion, rather than labor to establish the pro
priety of it, as the fiibjeft had been amply
dilcuffed and the argument long ago ex
hauited. He therefore moved that leave
be given to bring in a Bill for preventing
the supply of Foreign territories with
slaves froal the Coast of Africa, and that
this motion be referred to a Committee of
the whole House.
This motion was opposed.
Mr. Wilberforce replied to all the ar
guments against his motion.
The House divided, for the motion -63
Againlt it -40
The bill was then Ordered to be brought
in.
* "
Congress of the United States.
IN SENATE-,
Thursday, April 24.
The honorable James Rofs from the
state of Pennylvania attended and tookhis
feat in the Senate.
The oath was by the Vice-President
administered to Mr. Rofs as the law pro
' vides.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" an ast providing for railing and organi
zing a corps of artillerists and engineers,"
• was read the second time.
Ordered, That this bill be referred to
Mr. Gunn, Mr. Taylor, Mr. Bradley,
. Mr. King and Mr. Langdon, to consider
and report thereon to the Senate.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
pr'efentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" an ast directing a detachment from the
'militia of the United States," was read
the second time.
Ordered, That this bill also be referred
to the committee last named, to consider
and report thereon to the Senate.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr, Beckley their clerk :
* Mr. President—The House of Re
presentatives agree to the proposed confer-
on the disagreeing votes of the two
on n ■■■■ ■— 1 —; *— r >VrC -5* fc '*
*}ite, to the bill, entitled, " an ast to es
tablish the poll-office and post-roads with
•hi the United States ; and have appointed
managers at the said conference on their
part"—And he withdrew.
The Senate resumed the consideration
of the letter yeflerday laid before the Se
nate,, from the committee of public fafety
" cf the French Republic.
A motion wis made that it be
" Ordered, That the letter of the com
mittee of public fafety, of the French Re
public, addrtffed to Congress, be trans
mitted to the President, and that he be
requested to cause the fame to be answer
ed, on behalf of the United States, in such
manner as (hall manifeft their sincere friend
fhip and gotfd will for the French Repub
lic." ,
On which it was moved that this mo
tion be referred to a committee, to consi
der and report thereon ; and
It passed in the negative—Yeas 13 —
Nays J*. gfc-
The yeas and nays being requited by
one-fifth of the Senators present.
Those who voted in the affirmative, are,
Mcffrs. Bradley, Brown, Buit, Butler, Ed
wards, Gunn, Hawkins, Jackson, Lang
don, Martin, Monroe, Robinson and Tay
lor.
Those who voted in the negative, are,
Mefirs. Bradford, Cabot, Ellfworth, Fos
ter, Frelinghuyfen, Henry, Izard, King,
Livermore, Morris, Potts, Rofs, Ruther
ford, Strong, and Vining.
A motion was made by Mr. Martin to
poftpvine the consideration of the motion
before the Seriate for the purpose of con
fideri rig the following motion :
" Resolved, by the Senate and Honfe
of Reprefrntativrs in Congress assembled ;
that the letter of the committee of public
fafety of the French Republic, addreflcd
to Congress, be tranfmittetfto the Prefi-'
dent, and' that he be requested to cause
the fame to be answered hi behalf of the
United States, in such manner as (ball
manifeft their friendfhip and good will for
the French nation, with their sincere tvifh
es for the prosperity of that Republic"—
On mot-ion,
It was agreed to amend the original
1
. motion by inserting thtfe words; " Senate
of the j" before the word " United."
On rriotirtn,
To amend the motion by adding these
words* after the \Vord " States."
(l Congratulating thtm upon the late
brilliant iuccefies ot the arms of the Re
public, and the ertabhftiment of liberty
and order, and the progress of industry
It puffed in the negative.
On the quedioli to agree to the motion
amended as follows :
" Ordered, That the letter of the com
-1 tnittee of public fafety of the French Re
public, addrefied to Congress, be trans
mitted to the Piefidetrt, and that he be
requested to cause the fame to be answered
on behalf of the Senate of the United
States, in such manner as (hall manifeft
their sincere friend(hip and good will for
the French Republic."
1 It pasTed in the affirmative—Yeas 28;
The yeas and nays being required by
one-fifth of the Senators present.
Those who voted in the affirmative, are,
MefTrs. Bradford, Bradley, Brown, Burr,
Butler, Cabot, Edwards, Ellfworth, Fos
ter, Frelinghuyfen, Gunn, Hawkins,
Henry, jackson, Izard, King, Langdon,
Livermore, Martin, Monroe, Mot 1 is, Potts,
. Robinson, Rofs, Rutherfmd, Strong,
. Taylor and Virting.
Ordered, That the Secretary lay a co
• py of this vote of Senate befoie the Pre
sident of the United States.
Mr. Ellfworth from the committee to
whom was referred the bill, entitled, "an
( ast to encourage the recruiting service,"
reported amendments.
' Ordered, That the amendments be
printed for the use of the Senate.
, On motion,
t Ordered, That Robert Connelly have
r leave to withdraw his petition.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
; Friday, April 25th, 1794.
; The Vice-President laid before the Se-
J nate a report from the Secretary for the
department of War, refpefting invalid
J pensioners, which was read.
r Ordered, That this rqiort be referred
to Mt.Taylor, Mr. Ellfworth, Mr.Brown,
Mr. Jackson, and Mr. Livermore, to
consider and report thereon to the Se
nate.
The amendments reported by the com
-3 mittee to the bill, entitled, "An ast to
_ ' vEvre
•_ considered, adopted and the bill amend
ed accordingly.
[1 On motion,
r It was agieed that the rule be so far
dispensed with, as that this bill be now
u read the third time.
Resolved, That this bill pass with a -
y mendments.
Ordered, That the Secretary desire the
concurrence of the House of Reprefen
i_ tatives in the amendments to this bill.
A meflage from the House of Repre
[_ fentatives by Mr. Beckley their Cletk :
e " Mr. President—The House of Re
■. prefentativtfs agree to the amendment of
1, the Senate to the bill, entitled, "An ast
[. allowing Lieutenant-Colonel Toufard, an
equivalent for his pension for life." They
have pa (Ted a bill, entitled, " An act. to
- suspend the importation of certain goods,
_ wares and merchandize," in which they
desire the concurrence of the Senate."
And he withdiew.
The bill last mentioned was read the
y firft time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
t cond reading.
|. Tlie Senate adjourned until 11 o'clock
on Monday morning.
House of Representatives.
Ways and means under confide) ation.
On Friday last in committee, Mr.
Dexter observed, that very few of the ob
> jeftions were confined to the question.
1 Some were arguments against all excises ;
some against all public contributions;
some against the nature and administration
! of our government ; and some against all
; goyernment. The statement of the gen
: tleman from Maryland, (Mr. Smith) that
1 the duty would make three times the ca
pital neceflary, he said could not be accu
: rate. He had reckoned the cost of the
■ raw material employed ; if this be true,
I as he dates tobacco nt 4 cents per
r and fnuff is worth 30 cents per pound, it
• follows that the manufacturer makes 750
•I per cent, net profit. Tl* cannot be
true ; the principal capital must be em
ployed in preparatory works and labor of
nttfiiifa&uiing. He added that our hav
ing formerly protected the manufacture,
is no reason againlt now taxing it. It
wctuld rather be a reafon,for calling on it
to contribute to the pußlic burthens. He
said the fame gentleman asked, why there
is no.excise on beer manufactured in New-
England, as well as im foilthern whilky ?
I anfwet, beer is not manufactured there
in any considerable quantity *, if it were,
it ought not t6 be taxed. New-England
rum is taxed enbrmoufly. The duty on
this and whi(ky, are protecting duties to
good morals. The life of fnuff and to
bacco is certainly a mere luxury* or ra
ther folly, and all who use and of course
pay the duty, are volunteers. A land
tax, which is named as a substitute for
this and every thing else, is 3 tax very un
equal, and laid on all the neceflaries of
lite, and opprefiive to the laborious poor,
it looks like governmental rapacity,
which is so deprecated by the gentleman
from Pennsylvania, (Mr. Smilie.) He
has more than once told us that insensible
taxation is daangerous; and that we
should make the people feel the taxes they
pay. The way to make them feel taxes,
is to lay those which will be most inconve
nient ; the argument then is that the most
inconvenient tax is the belt. The very
faCt stated to reason from is the ftrongelt
reason in favor of indireCt taxation, viz.
the burthen is so small that the people do
not feel it. What the gentleman's meaning
is, unlets it be that measures ought to be
taken, which may make the people diffa
tisfied with the government, is difficult to
fay. The fame gentleman has said, that
&U excises are against the spirit of a repub
lican government like ours- It is strange,
said Mr. Dexter, that the spirit and let
ter of our government should be so con
tradictory ; for by the cor.ftitution, ex
cises are expressly provided. The man
who buys his food and clothing in imall
quantities, as he "can obtain the means,
does it much more easily than he could
purchase a flock for a year at one time ;
and he who buys dutied articles, and re
gulates his confnmption by the price,
pays his tax in small portions, with ease,
when he would be diftrefi'ed by being cal
led to pay the whole sum in gross arir.nal
ly.—Mr. D. proceeded to fay, that as to
the fears of the gentleman abovemehtion
ed from Pennsylvania, and also of the
jrcntleman from
he had heard them too often to be alarmed
at them : They seemed like a sale coat,
made for any fubjeCt. He said that a faCt
fatisfied his mihd on the fubjeCt. Con
necticut.is a land of equality beyond any
on earth. Scarcely a man among them is
rich enough to keep a coach, and" scarcely
one so poor as not to keep a hoi fe ; learn
ing is more equally diffufed there than in
any part of America ; their morals are so
pure that crimes hardly have names; yet
this happy race of equal republicans never
since the lnflitution of olir government,
have sent one member here to whine or
thunder about the ariftbcracy of our con
stitution. He said he would not compare
this slate with others in the union ; one
man was not there disposed of at the will
of another. As to the fear of the gen
tleman from Virginia, that excises would
destroy American liberty, Mr. D. said
there was no danger of it. The charac
ters of individuals form the character of the
government. * A people are never enslav
ed until they need a matter. The Ame
rican habits exclude all danger. That ex
cises and slavery exilt together in some
part, of Europe is true ; but it remains
to be priced that ole is the cause of the
other. It we havj the benefits of go
vernment we must pay for them. There
was a time, said Mr.' D. when laboring
under the debility of disunion and thedif
trefles of anarchy, we rejoited that the
people had inftitutedthis government. It
is now represented not as the guardian of
liberty and innocence ; but as the afTaffin
of both. What has happened to change
our opinion? Under its auspices we have
encreafed in strength and riches ; we are
now free and happy when the world is
in confufion. The gentleman from Vir
ginia seems to despise our prd'ent happi
ness, unlcfs it can be eternal. Whv fir
should we expeCt th!i? Nations,'' like
men, come to maturity, they grow old
and perish. The furi must go out in dark
ness : -the earth m.rfl be burnt up ; nature
m»lt expire m agonies. What right have
we to claim to be an exception from gene
ral rules . AU.nature is in perpetual revo
lution ; Wf are a part, and must revolve
wit . the Tvhole. The fyfiem fuffers, and
Probably requires conflar.t renovation. ]
Suceefliori appears to be a law of naturals
univcrlal as her works, and as immutable
as her author.
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 7.
Extrall of a letter from Edinburgh, receiv
ed by the late arrival at Neiv-Torl—
dated 22d Jan. 1794.
" The state of my dear native country
appears to me more dark and gloomy than
1 ever knew it. In the rtfbellion of 1745.
the country in general was warmly attach
ed to the revolution fetrlement, and look
ed with horror on a change of govern
ment. If France had invaded us in the
time t>f the American war, those who
most disapproved the measures against A
merica, would have been as zealous as
those who approved them, in repelling an
invasion. But though I believe a great
majority in Britain wish the preserving
our present happy conflitution, I am a
fraid there are many in fume parts, espe
cially of those employed in manufactures,
who, if there was a landing of our ene
mies, from the hope of levelling all ranks
and fortunes, would be tempted to join
them, and who have so fat shaken off the
principles of religion and jultice, that
they would fciuple no ast of violence or
cruelty by which they might better their
circumstances. There are, indeed, men
of fortune and virtue, who, from real
principle, wish a reform in our constitu
tion, and have countenanced societies for
endeavouring to procure it—but many of 1
the meetings of Societies for Reform, or
Friends of the People, consist of persons
of broken fortunes, who never had any
character to lose; nor is it improbable,
that those of them who would spurn with
abhorrence, the idea of pra&ifing fitch
cruelties as take place in France, by join?
ing with those furious men, might learn
their ways. I cannot but approve your
found policy in America, in endeavoring
to keep clear of the war. I-t would" have
been wife in our administration also, if
they were not forced intt> tne measure by
discoveries of ferret negociations between
France and people at home who wiftied to
overturn our conftitulipw : The pacific cor
dudt of Mr. Pitt, hi other mftance#,
KU r-cel ivr tliiftimftiing the ttß-
tional debt makfts this the more probable,
though he might have good reasons for
not disclosing the extent of his informa
tion, nor the channel through which it
was-conveyed."
Letter from Barcelona February 15, 1794.
Lord sTood failed from the Tflaiids of
Hieres with chief part of his fqtiadron the 13
January, leaving fir Hyde Pa.'Uer to keep
the ffation from Marfe'lles to Nice. His
lordlhip went diredfly over to Corsica, and
was e!cfe in with Caliz, hut a violent gale of
wind came 011 ana prevented any landing
bein;; made there ; the dry before they ran
in io dole the Lc*ia chalc-d aw 1 engaged a
large 40 gun frigate, which by dint of fail
ing and boats that came out escaped into
Cafe, where the and another frigate were
seen the next day.
The I.eda loftten men °:n the engagement,
ana was very rrui h cut up in her rigging.
Lord Hood arrived at Prat Ferrzro on Elba
the 28th January, and there is reason to fnp
pofe he failed again with the greater pari of
tlie Squadron about the sth of this month
for Corsica. While they were at Elbe an
officer from General Paoli joined I hem, and
he reprelented that nearly allthe inhabitants
of the ill a; id were anxiously waiting for the
Engliih as their deliverers, hut were under
the greatefl terror that the French -might
push over the reinforcement with-which ihey
threatened the Island. It was known in re
ality that the French since the reduction of
Toulon, had prepared 7000 men at Nice to
watch the firil opportunity of being able to
flip over to Corsica ; and .the frigates seen at
Caii? had been cruiiing to favor the paflage. ,
We are anxious of course to hear news f*'< m
that quarter. The L'Aigle did not go into
Toulon, as it was feared /he might hive
done ; but the Amphitrite was 101 l on a reef
of rocks near Leghorn, the crew were all
saved, the purser came to Port Ferraro with
the account the 29th January.
Before the.squadron left the Bay of Hieres,
the tßth January, seven men who escaped
from Marseilles in a Genoese boat came on
board the Vitflory; they came out of Mar
seilles in the night of the 17th. The account
they gave refpefting that place, Toulon and
Lyons, was extremely fhockirg—lnftead cf
4cc people havim* been put to death at Tou
lon, they aflejted that upwards of 5000 had
been lhot. That all the priefls without ex
ception were destroyed, every where j and
every person related in the moil diflant man
ner to any of the wretched fugitives, vrere
htinted cut, arrefed, and gene-ally put to
death. At Marseilles net a davpaficd wita
* tout si ve or fix people being executed in form
ajid the aiTaffinations in the streets and hou
fes were numberless. The prisons were al
crammed full, and it was expe&ed they weii
loon to be cleared by a general maflacre, for
provisions were become so scarce that with
out a very great reduction of the number of
mouths the people mud soon be reduced to
eat each other. At Lyons rhat was said to
be already the c;ife —and as'the army had
secured what little provisions there was, the
miserable inhabitants have risen en masse and
fought defperattly with knives, flicks, and
any other weapons they could meet with,
that in (hort, no description could equal the
1, errors that reigned thro' all the south of
France ; and nothing prevented an immedi
ate general counter-revolution, but the abl'o
lute want of arms with' every description of
people, except the soldiers, who feenied de
termined to make an end of every body and
every thing that does not dire<SUy luit their
present purpose.
House of Representatives, U. S.
This day the committee of the whole
house, having finiflied the discussion of the
Report on the Ways and Means, the fame
was reported tothehonle with sundry amend
ments. The amendments were immediate
ly taken up by t'.Se house.
The debate continued until the adjournment.
Married on Saturday evening last by the
Rev. Mr. Keating, Mr. Joseph Wiseman,
Merchant, to Miss Catherine Dough
erty, both of this city.
By this Day's Mail.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
LEGHORN, Feb. 14.
We have had accounts from Madrid,
that the Spanifli court, upon receiving ac
counts that Toulon was evacuated by the
allies, and that the French aiiny which lay
before that place was sent against the Span
:(h forces ur.der Don Ricaidos, in Roufil
lon, which would give "the French a ma
nifelt superiority of numbers, had order
ed their General to evacuate ajl the places
they had taken, after carrying off the ar
tillery, and deftrfiying the fortifications:
In the mean time, several new corps were*
railing to reinforce the Spanilh army in
Roufillon.
VIEJSNA,. Feb. 22,
Alinoft all the letters received from the
frontiers of Turkey within these ten or
twelvii days, announce in a pafitive man
r.rr an .tp'proschiftg beUvefn..Ruf
iia juijt the Porte 5 »hoi< irom. ConlUnti
nopie are to the f;imc efß'Ct. What ren
tiers this news the more worthy of credit
is, that all, the Pachas who command
towards the Danube, and the.Dneifter,
• have received orders to eflablilh maga
zines; and the fortreltes of Brailow, If.
mailow, Bentler and Choczim, ate to bei
pnivifioncd, without delay F3r one year,
B.\USoELS, i>' :T_h Ir.
Lau n;ght major general Haddick arrived
- ; ?m Vienna,with important difpatehee rela
tive to the conduct of the Campaign, and
the inauguration of the Emperor. The in
auguration is to take- place in the course of
this month, and the Arch Duke Charles to
- ail as proxy f or the after which
»t is supposed that Gen. Haddirk has brought
jum the Emperor's leave tf> join the army-
In the mean time, hi, field equipage is kept'
in coaftant readiness. 1 t
The duke of York's are ?t
ourtiay. On Sunday the 9til be advanced
with about: 3000 of the combined troops and
took poffe/Tion of Mcnm, Koubue, IJaliuin
and Roulhcque, from whjfch the French re
treated in s uc h haste as to leave some field
p.«ees behind them. The troops were so
elated, that they offered to attack the flrong
pest before Billed ; but hjs R,>va! Highoels
Mfralned their ardour, affirt-Tng them that
n/i'-f i ave fu^icient opportunities
of d, ip l a^„lg their valourt Q f peasants
who marched on this expedition, fifven re
ed the gold medals,as the reward of their
zem and bravery.
,' Scvc r n t}loufa nd Pioneers are to be employ
ed in forming entrenchments between Lan-
J Urcom - Th e number of troops
• along tie frontier, from Orchies to Nieuport,
is computed at 45,000, commanded by the
duke pt York a,d General Clairfait. 7
jy.i! tr '' ea "hfeu, whose head-quarters are
SaMS? ~. a S/ e m to the P n-e of Saxe
; reinforcements, to enable him
5 thp'*s- nf ttCmpts of the Fre nch Armv
the Mozelli on that part of the frontier
The Prince of Saxe Cobourg has his head
, V Valenciennes, General Mack is
ar- K ''. , / report * S that the French
are to be attacked without delay, that they
may be obliged to fight before they can corn
fefey« ,h "«-»
CGNSTANTWOPLE, Feb. 7.
cur A < rn) le^ 5 j at ° n °f R;!^c Mottapha,
onr Ambafiador at the court of Peterf
&As not u> lmvr -' tab,T vsry
1> The iii!tructions given to tliis miniitcr, I
related to two very principal objects. The J
■ e firft-was, that the Ruffians should in frt- j
,r Jure fubrnit to the new duties eftabfifhcd , ,
[. in all the Turkiflj dominions, and the le
>f cond was, to in fill upon thp liberation of ■
o all the Turks who are prisoners in the
0 Ruffian territories.
e These two demands have suspended
1 the negoeiation ; but it is hoped, that the
i new Ruffian Minister, M. Codlabey, will
? renew them, although the Grand Signior
- appears determined, notwithstanding the
f interposition of the courts of Vienna and
London, to abide by his demands.
f The Divan have ordered the neceflary
. preparations to be made. The Captain
1 Pacha has visited all the sea-ports, arid
r given directions for fitting out the (liips
with the utmost speed. At his return to
Constantinople, he had a long conference
with the Grand Signior. Preparations
. equally active are making by land, and the
; commandant of Bender and Annaps have'
. I received orders to spare no expence in put
i ting these important fortreffes into a res
• : peftable (late of defence. A war with
J Ruffiafeems to be inevitable. Diftrafted,
. however,, by internal commotions, the
• Porte is not now in a condition to oppose
with any probability of fuaeefs, the migh
ty monarch of the North. °
Mahmud Pacha's probations of fide
lity were only made for the purpufe of
blinding the Divan to the immense prepa
rations which he is making All that
pait of his army which had .gone over to
the Seralkier of Rotr.eba, is returned to',
his service. Aii Pacha of Janima has also
declared in his favor, and has, in Conse
quence, refufed to pay any tax to the
Porte.
Roused, at length, from its lethargy,,"
the Turkilh government has resolved to
check the operations of the insurgents,
and for that purpose has ordered an army
of 120,000 men, under the command of
the* Captain Pacha, to march from Na
volm against them.
PARIS, March Tl.
Thomas Paine, in his prison here, is
determined not to remain, idle. A proj
du£tion- of his has just made its appear
ance in English, and bears the followfrJ
title; " The Age of Reason ; aq
I'lvtftfgation of True and Fabuiwis The";
oWv. By Thomas Paine, Citizen and
CuWvatdr, of the United States of Ame-j
tica." See. &c.
1 he inhabitants of this Metropolis, and
its environs, to the distance of feyerar
leagues, are all extremely discontented :■ j
the poor cannot,obtain the common nej
ctfTancs of life, and provisions are ex
tremely scarce and exorbitantly dear.'
The Convention is publicly vilified in
hand-bills difbibuted and (luck'up through
out Paris, and a division even fubfifb be
tween the mod hot-headed Patriots.
In the fitting of the Cordeliers on the
29th, Vincent demanded the puirifhment
of the remainder of the Briffo tines who"
are in confinement; and denounced'* new
faction, pointing out Philippeaux, Bour
don, and Camille Defmoulins, as its
chiefs, who wished to destroy liberty and
those deputies have since been expelled
from that society.
general of the army of the
North, died in the Conciergerie, the e
vening before he was to have been con
duced to the guillotine.
The quantity of fait-petre colMed in
the levfral fetftions of Paris, during the
fii It decade of this month, was reported
to be 13,256 pounds.
.The Pandour and L,e Courageux pri
vateers are arrived at Dunkirk : they took
19 prize* in the Northern Seas, many of
which are fafs in port.
A great number of Emigrants are now
aid to be in this metropolis, as
liackney-coaciimen, barrow-driverc, and
carmen.
The Revolutionary Committee of Lisle has
tound out an excellent way to flop kankrupt
cics, by refufing certificates of civifm to all
thoie who have not honorably paid tkeir
debts.
Amongst the persons who have been lately
guillotined, are the Count de L'Aigle, Mare
chal de Camp, and Louisa de la Rochefou
cault. Ninety-one prieltshave beeh conduct
ed from Rouen to Rochefort, condemned to
[ betranfported to the coast of Africa.
The number of falfe aflignats which now
circulate m France is so very great, that Jjo
body can diftingmlh them from t(ie o-ood
committee of afiignat? fu S
pub.iifced mftru&ions on this fubje<sl.
A great number of troops file, off to the!
right towards Givet, and to the left timaVda
Dunkirk, which (hews that the army of (he-"
j North is oil the point of making feme great
I attempt.
j The quarrel between the Cordeliers, and
the Ja-o'nins was made up by Collot d'Her
j boisj and one Lojrs announced that th» Ge-
I noeit- had font to Marfeiiies 8000 loads of
wheat.
FRANCE.
'NATIONAL CONVENTION,
February 27.
Le Carpeitfier writes from St. Maloes,
that by the means of Revolutionary pur
gatives, he has delivered the country thro'
which he passed of all the Royalists and
Federalills which in felled it. 'Latterly,
a refra&ory Prieit had been laid hold of
and delivered up to justice, as well as the
old deyotee who concealed him.
The widow of the Exminifter, Le
Brun, appeared at the bar, with her fix
children, and fulicited the National Bene
volence, as file was at the eve of perifhinp*
j for want of food.—Referred to the Com-
I mittee of Succours.
The Popular Society of Dreux, presen
ted a cavalier, armed at its expence, and
chosen from among the most vigorous Sans ,
Culottes, who compose it. " The Priests,"
said this focietv, "in our diftfidl are full
of remorse for having preached imposture:
falt-petre is the order of the day, which
is taken from the earth to make room for
tyrants; will deihoy the thrones of despots,
and the irons of slaves."—Honorable men
tion.
After hearing the report of the Com
mittee of Finances, the Convention autho
red the Comptroller of the Treasury to
draw out of the chest of the Three Keys
the ium of 18 j millions for tbe expences of
1792 and 93 in arrear, and those of the
month Nivofe, and the deficit of which
was only 41 millions.
LONDON, March, 19.
Letters from Leghorn, state, that Ge
neral Paoli, having heard of the surren
der of St. I'lorence, marched against Baf
tin, at the bead of 6000 Corhcan royal
ists. Being arrived at a proper placed he
gave a signal to the Britiih fiquadron,
, u . hich , was '''en off the Island. The Bri
tish ships of war immediately approach
ed, and landed the troops within fight of"
Baftia, and at the distance of four Itali
an milts from it. Immediately after,
Ballia was blockaded by the combined
Britifli and Corfitan troops, who eredled
different batteries, and intimated to the
Republicans, by a fumijions, that they
must surrender the fortrefs in
hours. Tlk master of the above vefl'el
adds, that 3t, his departure he heard a
' '* ,VV
. Tfle'-Captairi of a Tartane which arri
ved at Leghorn from Porto Ferraro, de
posed, that he heard a cannonade, w'hich
Med all day long 011 the 25th, and fegm
ed to proceed from Baftia.
Yeflerday Field-Marshal Freytag arri
ved in town from Valenciennes.
Letters from Vienna, dated the 26th
ult. Hate, that Dumourier has sent to the
1 Court of Vienna, several plans for the
prosecution of the war in the present cam
paign.
Generals Pichegru and Fenand have
had a long conference at.Cambray, with
refpeft to the operations of the ensuing
campaign, and the plans of the commit
fee of public fafety. A,s soon as this
conference was concluded, a mefTenger
was sent to Paris, and the two Generals
immediately set off to take the command
11 of their refpedtive armies of the North
and the Ardennes.
POUT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED,
f Sch'r. Polly, Motley, Portland
Sloop Mercury, Weeks, ditto
The Brig Thomas, Capt. Bunker, is ar
'' nved at Fort Mifflin ,in 40 days from Dublin. J
1 POST OFFICE,
Philad. May 3d, 1994.
Letters for England will be received at
this office until Thursday the Bth ,M a y> a '
f i o'clock noon.
N. B, The inland postage to STew-York
must be paid.
Ad vertifemcnt.
M. CARPENTIER, an inhab'tanf* of Si.
DoiningOy Roirig to Baltimore in tNe ftagr,!ofg
on his loutr the sth inft. a POCKET BOOK
containing several and papers, parti
cularly a draft for livces or one thr.ufand
dollar, in favot'rff NjeflVs Zaehaiie Coup
man and Co. o,t B£ltimt>r«-
Whoever thai! return the pocket Inok ancj
papW< to M. fca'rptntier at Baltimore, or to
rhe Jrcompenfed for
tneir trouhjr. v.
"« <* •' j
/X' {
'I NOTICE.
i I THE Subscriber acquaints the gentlemen and
lades, Retailers of Dry Goods, that
t On Monday the 12 th inji.
At 9 o'tjock jn the morning, he wjll have rea
dy -for sale, at his Wholcfalc AVarehoufe,No.
ii 7, north Sccond street, opposite to Mef
lis. J. W. anil Win. Gibb-,
A N£AT PARCEL
: DRY GOODS,
Ju/l imported in thejhip iVtllium Perm, from
Lcndotit
i Confiding of an atlortment of
Sattins, modes & perfl-
MiS) narrow corded Dimities, and
£ some India Mufl'ns.
Louis Ofmoht,
Who has alfofor sale,
, T ■ A quantity of
Looking Glasses, Framed,
Chre.t in ci!l"s of superior qu~.«jty,
Champaigne Wine, and a few
B«.xes Spersqaceti Candles.
May 7. dtt -
Treasury Department.
May Vh> ' 794 -
iNUliciL. is hereby .given* . tfai Piopofals
Will oe received at % Office ?! the Commif
(iOßex ef tie Revenue, for Ship Timber of
t';e.followwg kinds, Suitable (ot the building
of the Prigate,s authorized by Law. A par
ticular detail of the sizes and pu>poitioijs will '
be communicated, 011 application at tire fold
Urate. ,
White Oak Timter and Plank.
98 Pieces ol various Dimensions, inclad
ing Keels,, Floor and Rifmg Timbers,
&c. tor a Vellel of 14.0 or 150 feec
Keel
2 7,ood Feet of PlanK« Scantling, \V«le
aj pjeces, Bilge Streak :, Clamps, &c.
to 200 Logs, for. various uses.
£ Pltch pine.
_ 25,000 Feet of P ank for Decks,
ov 210 Beams, fr m 42 to 28 feet long, and
w from 10 by 12 to 15 by 18 inches thro'.
£ $0,00:5 Locust Treenails, 18, 2(4 and go
inches long.
5,000 Feet ol Inch ancl balf-inqji Cedar
Boards.
30,000 Feet of Yellow Pine & >ards and
i - Scantling.
Perfo.n? willing to supply any,part of tfye
above Tiniber tor one Ship, or in propofiyja
U )r whole ilx, will wake their Piopofals.
accotdiigly.
tuScf^w.
Diftri&of Pennfyh ~ania
t 0 w 1 t :
(L~S.) BE iirnenibered, that on the
W twenty fourth day of March, in
tne eighteenth yejr ot" the independence of the
U litedSrares of America, EBlNEitil HaE/j*i>
of the Paid riifUirt, iiasdepofited in {his office,
[j tlu' title of a book,the right whereof heclaiins
as author, in the words following, to \frit:
" Historical C elections; consisting of state
papers, and other authentic.doctments ; in
tended as materials for an history of the U
nited States of America.
, By EBENEZER HAZARD, A.M.
, Member of the American Philological So
> e'ety, held at Philadelpha, lor promoting
ufeful knowledge; Fellow of she American
academy of Arts and Sciences; and corres
pondent member of the Maffcchufetts H fto
rical Society.
VOLUME IT.
Ingenium, Pietas, Artes, acbelliea virtus,
Huu profugae venient, et Regna ilMftria
condent,
Et Domini hie Virtus eri t, et fortuna mi
niltra."
In conformity to the atf of tlie Congrcfs of
the United Stater, entitled " An ast for the
eucouragement of learning, by fecoring the
copies of maps, chi-fs and book?, to the au
thors and proprietors of fnrh copies, dining
ihe times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the D jlr 'id of Pennfylvtiniti.
Ma V ' ew4'v
NEW THEATRE.
By Particular Desire.
THIS EVENING,
May 7.
WHI be performed,
A COMEDY, called the
ProvoJid Hujband; /
0 R '
A Journey to London.
To which will be .added, a new serious PAS 4 '
1 OMIML, ffiglnaily performed at cte
Theatre in Paris, called
La Foret Noire;
o R,
The Natural Son.
Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarter*
oi a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.. PinMelpKa, "Uarcl-i, .794-
jussr £u6lis&fd, ,t
j MATiitW CAiUiY, < t
Jtfo. jfiß> Mjiriet firctt, t
2A£ FXASX VOLUJVLE. ~OF A NEW
STSTE'M 6F ,
Modern Geography: ;
O*, A I
Geographical, HiJiorical, and j
Commercial Grammar;
And preferrt state of the several
NAT-lOHS OF 'THE iVQRLB.
COfi T & i*i I N.C,
I. Th* figures, nipuons, and distances of
the planets, according to die .Newtonian fyf
tein and the latest observations
- • 2. A renera! vie* of the earth, coofidered
with fever&l nfeiul geographical
dcfiiiitioris and problems.
3. The grand divifious of the globe into
land *"d water, continents and islands.
• 4. The Ctuition and extent of empires,
kiugouiiu, states, provinces aud colonies.
f. Their climates, air, (oil, vegetables,
prcdu&ions, metah, mineral?, natural curi
osities, seas, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
aud lake*.. *
6. The birds- and be ast 5 peculiar to each
country.
7. Observations on the changes that have
been any where observed upon the face ol na
ture fmce the moll *ai|y periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations; the 11
forms of government, religion., reve
nues, taxes, naval and military strength.
9 The genius, manners, culloms, and ha
bits of the people.
10. Their language,learning,arts,faiences,
Ujanafaftures, and commerce.
it. The chief cities, ftruftures, ruins,and
curiosities
12. The longitude, latitpd?, bearings, and
diftance3 of principal places from Philadelphia.
Ti which arcad4ed t
1. A OEostt AfHicAL Index, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Table of the Coins of all nations, and
their valde indollars and cents.
3- Table of retnarkable
events, from the creation to the present time.
Bj WILL lAM GUTHRIE, E/q.
The Aftrunomical Part corrected by
Dr. RITTSNKOUSE.
To which have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr.'HtmcHELi.,
and otlier eminent Astronomers.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITIOJJ,
Corrected, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
' The firft volume contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, be.'ides two Aitronomical Plates,
* I°. Map of the world, 2. Chart of the world.
•3. Europe. 4. Alja. J. Africa. 6- South
America. 7- Cook's discoveries. 8. Coun
tries round the north Pole. 9- Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway. ;0. Seven United Pro*
vinces. it Anttrran, French and Dutch Ne
therlands, 1,2, Germany. 13 Spt of wat
in France. i - France divided intodepaitr
ments. 1;. Switzerland. 16. Italy, Sicily,
«iid Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
48. Tu'key tp Eur ipe and Hungary. 19 Ire
•Ja'rid. 20. Weft-indies- 2i. Vermont 12. Ar
millar.y fpbere. 23. Capern.cao system.
With the lecond voluin.', which is now 10
the press, will be given tue following Maps :
1. fyudia in Europe and Alia.
2 Scot'und.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
j. China..
6. Hindoftan.
7. United States.
8. British America.
o. Siate of New-Hamplhire.
,0. State of Massachusetts.
It. State of Conne&icpt.
State of Tthode Island.
,3. State of New-York.
14. State of New-Jersey.
15. State of Pennsylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
j 7., State of Maryland. ,y
' 18. State of Virginia. < E
19. State of Kentucky.
2p State of North-Carolina.
21. "fenneifce Government.
22. ?f South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia.
TER-MS.
1. This woric will be conif>rifed in two vo
-1 times.
2. Sijbfcriliers pay for the present volume on
■VlfYfy, ft* dbflars. and the nrife of bind- j
ing, (56 cents for boards.)
3. They may .receive thp succeeding
in twenty-four weekly numbers, At a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finilhed, at
the fame price as the firft,
4. The fubfeription will be raifid on the firft
day ol June »794, to fourteen dollars, ex
clulive of binding.
3. Should any copies re|hain for sale after the
completion ot the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding,
fl. The names of the fuffic'ytSrs will pub
lifhi'l as patrons of American literature,
sciences.
It is wr-.illy unuecsSary to expatiate on the
adv a 1, o American readers, that thisedi
t : i"lr:Te , ever every imported edition .of
r err? of Geography extent-. The addit
», V feveralflace , procured a
a ■ _'t.■ rr at exprnle, and from the best ma.
t; i. at are attamable, ipeaks fiich fulj
co'Vy ctj on <lns fubjrc% ihit i* w»bld be
dif"-;"i'.;c\to the reader's understanding t<>
suppose -'u to enter I'lto a detail of
ar; umeots to prove its Fuperiority. In 110
:jcb Biapi bacnever totro-
The «sflsett4itio'* add'tions'wliich are
made in tWis wi*rk,a r e
page. piiiilic uv<; referred t;
the preface for a flight (kttfch of a few ot
tiiem.
The p«Wilher takes the prefert opportu
nity of returning uis mod sincere thanks to
those refprftable chara<ste r s who hive favored
him with documents for improving the maps
of several of the (tales. He requests a conti
nuaiice qf tbeii Vuidaefs; andhopesthat fucfc
public spirited citiicns, as are possessed of fi
qiikir will favor. |ii|B with then
afliflance in ptfrfefting his undertaking.
Tiie extraordinary encouragement with
which he has been favored, has excited
in liis breall ihe warraeft lenriments of grati
tude— feiitinipnts which rime will not efface.
He pledges' huufejf to the citizens of the
United to spare neither pains uor ex
p'infe torendertlie prcfenteditionofGuthne s
Geography improved, deserving of their pa
tronage. ™aftt
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Reffrrfc/ita ives,
December 2x^,1793.
WHEBLEAS the Comnufli of public
Accounts, have reported, that they can
nut proceed tp the ot the Treasury
'Accounts, refpefting special Indents, without
knowing the outttauding amount thereof in cir
culation Therefore,
? ftcfofatdi That aji holders of special Indents
be directed, and require, 011 or before the firft
day of November 11 xt,'o deJivei the special In
dents in their poffefiion 10 one or other of the
Commifliouers of t,he Trcatury, who are to give
receipts lor the lame, ?»>d i<? report to ttaeCom
miflioners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
, lher»<refpeifcively received, and also 10 the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next.
1 and that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
I of November next, shall be, and the fame are
heieby barred.
RcJolv<d, That public notice of tjiiji
5 be given in the several Gazettes hi this State,
once three weeks, until the fiift day of
j November next. And th-at ihe Delegates of thia
Statfi in jhe Coogrefs of the United Slates, be re
p quelled to cause this rclolution to be pubLUbfi
in one or more papers in the cities ot Philadel
phia arid New-York, and th? r .grovifion will be
made' for the expences attending Inch publica
tion.
Orderly That t,he resolution be sent to the
Senate for their concurrence.
By order of the House.
JOHN SAN FORD DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
I)EG EMBER 21ft,1793.
Refolded, That this Houic do concur with the a
House of Reprefe ritatives in the foi cgomg refo- (
lutions. ]
Ordered, That the rcfolulions be lent to the
Ho-ile ui Reprefeutatives. j
by order of the Srnat.r,
FtLIX WARLEY, Cletk.
ewtNov.
JUST PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOpSON,
liookfeller, at the Stone Hau/e inSecondJlreet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPiEDM,
OS. A
DiQionary of Arts, Sciences y aud MifcA
laneous Literature,
ON a plan enti.tly new ; by which the dit*
ferent sciences and ai*.ts are digested into the
form of dtftinft treatises or fyiiem*. This
volume, contains the articles, medals, medi
cine, metallurgy, metajyiyficsj metbodifts,
Mexico, microscope, rnidwifry, and a great
variety of biographical and mifcellaneo*i*-ar
licles, iHuftrated with nineteen copperplates.
(jCf" The tables of logarithms, &c. which
were deficient in the tenth volume, ars sub
jofned to this.
Eleven vo'umes of this-work are now pub
lifoed, and tUe"XiLth is.in fame forwardnefs.
On the firft of September, 1792, the price
of, fubfeription was iucreafed TEN dollars on
all Cp.t ts not taken before tjiat time. The fub
feription is still open on theft? terms, aind if
any copies remain by the firft of July next, the
price will be railed TEN dollars more, on
any copies which may be fubferibed for after
that period.
*,* As many of the fubferibers have taken
only two, three or four, See. volumes, they are
eaVneftly requ&fted to take up and- pay for the
remaining volumes, as it becomes d fficult to |
complete the felts, and tlie pubiifhev does not
hold himtelf bouud to make up any setts after
the firft day of July next.
April 22. m&:th6 y.
NANKEENS.
Nankeem tf Superior Quality,
FOR SALE AT |
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April at. mw&t'tf
Concluding Sales.
THE Sublcriber Ivaving entered into Co •
partnerlhip with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the btkdnpfs of Sugar Refining, will dispose
ef the
Remaining Stock on hand
CONSISTING OF
Silver, Plated, & japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saldle
Furniture, &c.
Sj Wbdefaie at Prime Coji for Cajh.
John Dor fey,
Ne. $2, North 3d itreet.
April 12, tuth&s6\v '
The Public are cautioned to
b-waf* if counterfeited Five Dollar Rills of
the Sank if the United States, and. Twenty
Dollar MU if .the Bank of Worth America,
fevtral of watch ha<ve appeared in circulation
, within a few days pafl; ifyy are a good ge
-1 nered imitation of the genuine Bills, but Jitay
s be diflinguifhed by the following
MARKS.
Fm>e Dollar Bills of tke !Bank of (he
< United State*.
ALL that have appeared havjthe letter F.
for their Alphabetical TVlarJc.
The Texture of the is thkker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than I
the genuine paper. j
The O- in the 'W>rd Compear? isfmaller:
than the M- and othfr letters of thit word,
j so that a line extended from the tqp of iheO;
to touch the top of the M. would extend con
(jdtrably above the range M the whole word.
in the word IJnited the letters are narrow,
erand closer together .than the reft of tbtbill
I parallel, the f incliniog much more for.WjrJ
[ than the f.
I The engraving"is-badly executed,»be strokes
I of all the Letters are stronger and tfie devi e
I in particularly ismncji c«ar(er and
I appears darker in the true bills. Some
I of the counterfeits bear date in Where-
I ?s the Bank was not in'operation till Decern
I ber, and oo five dollar bills were ifitiea in
I ihat year.
I Twenty Dollar Bills of tbe Book tf North
America-
ALL that have appeared have the letter
J B. for their alphabetical mark.
I They are printed on a paper nearly'fimitar
I to that of the couuterfait Five ©ottar Wntes
I above daftribed j the engraving is biitet eite-
I ucted, and they approach nearer to thp a|>-
I pearance of the genuine bills.
'The ftne rnled lines through the word Twev-
I ty, in the body of the bill, are in number th r-
I teen in the genuine bilk, »njtl but twelve in
I the counterfeits.
The word Cokpany is much like the faflie
I word in the Five Dollar B'.lJs as defer ibed a
-1 bove, the o being lets than them, and others
1 following. ~ ,
I There is no ftrok<? to the tin the wotfl Airtlt
I whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
I defined.
I The letters ft'in the word Twenty, to tre
I left hand at the bottom, do mot Bome dov+w to
I the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
I appearance to the word., the Tai and they go-
I ing below them.
The ligoature 1 Nixon, has the appear -
• I ance ot being written with l.i«»b-bla<k and
\ I orl, and differs from other inks used in
1 Sprinting the bills and the' ca'(bier's flgnature.
I It is supposed thc(e forgeries were commuted
I in Tome of the Southern Staves, as all tbe co«ui-
I terfeits that have appeared, have come from |
I thence, and.tw*v persons have been apptehcn.d-
I ed in Virginia, on fafpicrion of be rug the aafhor
{ oi them.
1 The reward o< O&l THOUSAMQ DOLLARS
I will be paid to any Person or Perfpo* who (hall
I discover and prosecute to cohvi&iqn the fevetal
I offenders of the following descriptions or any
I of/bem, viz.
I The person or who manUM«ureo
J the paper on which the Bills are printed.
I The person or peifons, who engraved the
I plates.
I The primer or printers, «f the bills.
I Every peifon whp has a&ed as a principal in
I any other way, in the coi|nte«leMaog and uuer-
I ing the said bills.
I Philadelphia, March &8 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
I of-the Bank of the United States hare appeared
I in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
1 LARSj'and the alphabetical mark is tl e let
I ter IS.
I They may be dift'mguithei from the genu-
I ine by the following I\4AI«K-S •"
I The paper of the conntevfeits is of a mor<
I tender texture and gluiTey furface than the
I genuine, and there is no water mark in them.
I The letter, (i. in the word Caftfier, in tbe •
I true bills is ftrtoogly marked, wheieas in the
I counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
I ftt;oke, evidentlyjn ap unfiniflied ftafe. The
I letter a in the w.urd demand, js badly formed
I and the whole word ill done, and there is no
I comma at the* end of it, as there is in the
I genuine bills. '
I The marginal device, is ippeh darker in
I the sals?, than in the genuine bills owing to
1 the ftiade strokes being coarser, much nearer
I togetlier, and etwfequeirtly much more nu-
I merous. This ilie eye at'ftfft
I view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, wilt be p'jid for apj>i ehendin; T ,
profeeutiivg to convicWon the leveral above
defer ibed Offenders in refpedt to this, as to.
the latiiefcrihed biUs.
THOMAS WILLING, President
of the, fij»nk. United States.
JOHN NIXON, Prefidentof die
Bank ot North America.
By order oi ibe Goiumutees of the Ref
-1 pfAive Boards.
TO BE SOLD"
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible fituatiofi, —alio a Country Seat
whin 6 tnUcs of the City, with 9 acres ot]
ftin J, or 43 acres of land- and meadow, the
House is not exceeded bvmniiy in tbe.vicmity
of the city, in lis?, or convenience..
For particulars jipf] j to the printer.
nififtitf
Just Imported,
is tbefilp Abigail, Captain Hertvn, from St
Peterjburgh it} Ritfiia, and no<w landing at
RujJATs wharf,
HEMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINOS,
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And for sale at of <l*e{ublc/iljef an.
Walnut ftreel, N". a«-
"John DonnalAfoti.
April id 1 w *&<tf
— *
Treasury Department,
Revenue Office, Apt 11 19, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposal
will be received at the office of the Commif"
fioner of the Revenue until the li*rh of "Mav
next inclusively, for the supply of all K -
tions, which maybe required during the cur
rent year, at the city of PhiJadeiphia, for
; the recruiting ferrice.
11 The w*ti«ns to be foraifked are to confill
of >thefoUowitig articles, viz
t One pound of bread or flnnr;
; One pound of beef, or 3 4 of a pound pordc
\ Half a gill of rum, branny ®r wbijky
» One quart ot fait,
Two quarts vinegar (
1 , r > Per iO3 rations
Two pounds soap f
t One pound candles J
Aprrj 21. mw&slw
'j 1 ■ — • •*•
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-iireet, New-York
THE Subfcriker intending <© con-fine hrmfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE 8c SALE of
STQCKS on CQIMMISSION, leave to of
fer-his fewicesto his friends and others, in the
line ol a Stock. BrokA. Those who may pJeafe
to favor h»m with their bofvneJs, may depend
upon -having ii trar.fa&ed with themmoll Ade
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United' States, will b*. ftrt&ly
attended to. LEONARD BL££CfC£R.
tn&rht*
Just Publiffied,
AND TO BE SO LP By
THOMAS DOB SON,
At the Sto'ue house, Ma.4l, S >uth Second
Street,
Historical Collections;
CONSISTING OP
STATE PAPERS,
And other authentic Document , intend d as
materials for<uv Hillory of die United State*
o( America.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A. M.
In two large.quarto volumes, price ten dol
lars in boa nth. «
SuWcribet's will be fa»ni!hed with <the its. 1
vol unit <mi paying three dollars and a quarter
—having paid five dollars and a quarter an
receiving the firft.
This (econd volume comprehendi, amory*
other interesting a complete co
py of the Recordsof tlieU«it>d Colonies of
M. England, iij whfch the tfoorfijStoftfc'e com
mifSojiers receding the ge«eral coneteras ff
the colonies —the neighbouring Indians—and
the Butch at Minhmidt (now New Yotk) Is
, particularly detailed.
*#* Materials are collected fufficient to
form a "THIRD VOLO'ME, The time of
pub'ilhinp will dep-nd on the encouragement
to be,derived f»om fubferiptimrs which wiil.be
reeeired by Thomas Doblim, Philadelphia ;
; Jere. Libhey, Portsmouth, New Ha-mpflvrt ;
Titomai & Andrews, & Dwv. Weft,Bofton; tl-
aia Thomas, Worceftcr; Uaac Brers, New-
Haven; Timothy<3*een, New London; Jao»b
Rjchardfon, Newport; Jnhn C.artrr, Provi
dence ; Hugh Game, Thomas Alien, p atid
Samuel Campbell, New Yori; Fred rick
Craig, Wilmington, Delawaie; James Rice,
Baltimore; Mr. l.indley, Norlolfcj David
e HenJerfon, Fredericksburg; John Grammar
PeterCburg ; Augustine Davis, Richmond; F
X.Martin, Newbern, N.'C, John Bradley,
Wilmington; and William Price Young,Chai
' left on.
April 4. inwfcfjjw
Treasury Department,
Re-venue Office, April lit I,
Communications by post or
otherwtfe. will be- recpived by v. ay
matjon at the Office of the CommiJlion. r of
the Revenue from persons wiling * 0 fttpply iron
Ca.unon, Cannon Ball, and 'Shells, for, the for
tiftcatioos a«d Shjps of War. The fitntfO of
( the metalfor cajmot?, and the capaeityof the
founders ifi. fmcJiing, in preparing art? mx
' »ng the metal, and in caftinp aud the
caiinon (which are to be caflt foliAly) >vill re
quire to be p<ir Jcularly stated.
S unilar communicati(>7is will also fce-receW
td from any persons willing to fop ply live
oak and red cedar timber for the
of of war. Different plans of puo
cur-ing and ftipplyirg the fame may he propos
ed. The convenience of the fitoa-ioh in *e
gatd to a«d the state of tSe timber
whether. »lre*dv fallen or-hereafter to be cur,
will- require *o be not-iced.
All the neceiTary particulars regatd to
the fever,al arvicUs which are will be
fpecified in comrafts intendedto be grounded
in part on the iofitfnutioo, which is hereby
t fought.
i; 'Aprti, 17.
3 PHILADELPHIA:
Pkihted bv JOHN FENNO, No 3
| South Fourth-Strist.