r
0
E
VENING ADVERTISE
|_No. 25 of Vol. V.]
CASTELLI,
Italian Stay and Habit-Maker,
ENCOURAGED by several Ladies of Phi.
ladelphia, now in New-York. ha< lemov
ed from ihence to this city, in Cooper'i On it,
No. 35 north fide of Molbery ft-reet, between
Front and Second ; where all kinds of Stays
are made—as Italian (hape r French corset,
English, Silk turn. Riding, Suckling flays, &c.
Also, Ladis' Habits, Surtouts, Gown?, and all
kuids of dreiles for balls, completed in the
newest and most elegant faftjion.
Any ladies in New-York and Charleston,
who may wifli to employ him, and will be
plea'ed ro fend their measures (hall have their
work finifhed with the utmost neatness and
difpattb.
N. B. Said Caftelli has an affertment of
ready made flays to felL
Jan. 7. Sf-
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglbeads and in cafcs of 50 bottles cach.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
Io pipca, Hogsheads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE EY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111* Sooth Froiu-ftreei
J«n. 2, 1794.
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1 794-
XTOTICE is hereby given, that there will
INi be paid at the Bank, after the fix tee nth
Trtftanf, to tfce Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty cents for each ftiare, being the dividend
declared for the last fix months.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN,
Galhier.
NOTICE.
BEING desirous of closing various commer
cial conrf ins, and that all powers hereto
fore granted relative to the fame fbould be re
voked. and public notice of it given, to prevent
nr»y possible mistake ; I, the fubfenber, do here
by make known to all whom it may concern,
that all powers end letters of attorney, of every
nature and extent, granted by me to any person
or persons, prior to the lft day of July last, to
for me or in my name in America, are re
voked and made void.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
Xew-York, Jan. 1, 1794. diw
NO RRIS-COURT,
Back of the New Library, between Cheftiut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
currying on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-(hutters,done in the most
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December go, dtf
MONEY borrowed or loaned, accounts Ga
ted or coUe&cd, employers suited with
domestics, house rooms, boarding and lodging
sented, Ift or procured — soldier's, mariner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims on the
public ; ihares in the banks in the canals, and
the turnpike road : certificates granted by the
public, and «he old and late paper monies ;
notes of hand, bills, bonds and morgages, wirh
or without depofns— Bought, fold, or nego
tiated at No. 8, in fouih Sixth-street, below
Market-ftrert by FRANCIS WHITE,
Who tranfafts business in the public offices for
eountry people and others, by virtue of a pow
•r of attorney, or by personal application.
December 11. d
E. Oswald,
No. 156, Market-Street, South,
AT the request of a number of friend*,
proposes publilhing The Independent
Gazetteer, twice a week, viz. Wednefdavs
and Saturdays—tocommence in January next,
if fufficient encoeragement offers
It will be publiflied on Paper and Type*
equal to its present appearance. The fub
fcriptl#n 3J dollars per ann,
Ailvertiliineilts not exceeding a fqaare,
will be inserted 4 times for r dollar—every
ceeding a square, in the fame proportion.
CO" Gentlemen, in pojeffion of Subscription
■papers far this Gaiette, are requejkd to
tranfwat tiem H the Editor*t Office.
oa>t!tr of tbe llllifff) JJfaff 0
Frorto London, Dublin atui Glasgow)
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Regiiter for 179.2
European Magazine for the firft si*
months of 1 793
Gibbons decline and fall of tlie Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Prieftlv on matter and spirit
on ehriftianity
Disney's. life of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memt.y, a collection of eflays-
Varieof Prulfia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
Rufleli's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extra&s, fnperbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Sangnier and Bi iilbn's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerusalem rieJivered
SmelHe's tranflkfion of Buffon
Berwick's hiftoi y of quadrupeds'
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiofitic; orf literature, £ vols;
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's di&ionary. 2 vol*.
Dow's history of Ilindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to poJite literature.
ImJay's dsfcription of Kentucky
Present state of
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater 011 phyflognomy, a'oridjed
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Nccker on executive power
KiiTts of Secundus-
Gallery of portraits
Vokiey's ruins ofempirer
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engraving;!
Dnwnman's infancy
Adatr's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immaferialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine;
Complete farmer
Cliandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitup
Godwin on political juftiee
Gazetteer of France, J vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's sketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoule's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. Sc 11 Id.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols-
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallit on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels intoDenm» r k,ltuffia,Poland,&c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical rfi&ionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid-
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of pbyfic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mu/cles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise oai fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
HalJer's physiology
Spalanzane's diflertations
London practice of phytic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's ckemiftry.
Friday, January 10, 1794.
Just. Imported,
And now opening. for sale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market jlrett,
A Large and Valuable
AND
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying-
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers*
and requesting their future favors, as we'll as
those of the public in general*
He continues to make and repair at the
Hiot test notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaerons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chairs* and barnefs
ofevery description, in the neatest and newest
falhion now prevailing in the United Stares.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaltion to those whopleafe to employ him
He has for sale, several carriages almost
finifhed, such as coachee-, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel fprkigs, a light phseton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794. raSf tjro
From the Columbian CentyieL
The Thespian corps are in con ((ant ex
ercise for the approaching campaign
From them much is expetted ; and from
their profeffional abilities and attention,
expectation will be realized.
The tragedy of Gustavus Vasa, the
gallant and patriotic Swede, is to be hon
oured as the introdu£tory exhibition.
The entertainment, as we understand,
will be that of " Modern Antiques, or
the Merry Mourners." A luxuriant feall
for the difciplesof Thalia,
The censors have decided on the
introdu&ory Prologue. It i 9 in the hands
of our favorite Pewell; and from his
hands, it will come forward with sdditi
tional merit, ft i 6 said to be a specimen
of American genius highly honorary to
our country ; from the fame hand, we
conjecture, who has so often delighted the
public,with his beautiful numbers, in the
Centinel, where, in due time, it (hall be
deposited.
The propofalof Mr. Welt, to publilh
weekly the plays performed, is well de
serving public patronage, and the Ameri
can public seldom withold that patronage
from merit.
(From the American Minerva.)
The contents of an Old Marts Mtmcran-
dum Book.
Negligence sometimes fuffers a child to
grow up left-handed. But why are we all
to be only right-handed ? The right hand
was made stronger and more convenient
by habit, not by our Creator. The wisest
of God'a creatures fuffer habit, when they
have two arms, to confine them almost to
tally to the use of one. Let us copy the
ikilful fencing mailer, and teach our chil
dren the use of both arms indifcnminately.
Cases may be put, in which the left arm,
which now fetrat to be fixed to the body
only for the fake of uniformity, may save
the wearer's life.
Every man in the moment of deep
thought is addicted to some particular ac
tion. Swift used to roll up a flip of paper
with his flnger and thumb. Many people
have eontra&ed habits of this fort which
are ungraceful, some, even habits of inde-
cency.
Is your child a daughter ? Do not chris
ten her from novels and romances. Louii'a
and Clementina may betray ber into situa
tions which Elizabeth and Maiy never
dreamt of. Shenftone thank'd God hisname
was liable to no pun. Let an old man be
thankful he did not give his daughter a
name which sentimental writers would pre
fer to weave into a novel, or to " hitch in
a yhyme."
[Whole No. 485.]
For the Gazßtte of the United Status,
AS the public mind has been for some
time past considerably agitated re fp edging
Theatrical exhibitions, and at these writers
in favor of fprrls Item to avail themselves
of the authority of a few Clergymen, who
refufed to sign the address and petition
lately presented the Senate' and lioufe of
Representatives of the (late of Pennsylva
nia, relative to the pafilng of a Law a gain ft
vice and immorality ; you are particularly
requeftedto republifli in your Paper' from
a correa copy the said petition, with the
considerations subjoined in favor of the
fame. This rcqueft you certainly will not
refufe, as the fubferibing Clergymen have
been moil: wantonly abul'cd, in some of the
Philadelphia Newspapers, by a set of ano
nymous writers, who substitute railing for
reafotiihg ; these Clergymen, to their ho
nor be it spoken, though " reviled, revile
not again; though they fufFer, they threat
en not; but commit themselves to Hliri
that judgeth righteously" how fer the
non-fulfcribers have patterned after the
great founder of our holy religion, who
" left us an example, that we should fol
low his steps" mutt be left not with the
irreligious and prtfave, but with the men of
true piety to determine.
4 Profejfor of Chrifiianity*
Jan. 9, 1794.
To the Senate and House bf Representatives
of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
THE clergy of various denominations,
in the city of Philadelphia, whose names
are underwritten, observing, with much
pleasure, that an existing law of this iiutc
for the fupprefiion of vice and immorali
ty, is by the recommendation of the exe-*
cutive, to become the fubjeft g£ legiflativc
revision ; and imprefied with a sense of
duty, which we conceive is incumbent on
us, both as ministers of the gospel, and as
members of civil society, refpe£fully re
quest the attention of the legislature to
the following rcprefentation and petr
tion.
We represent, that the legislative in
terposition is, in ourapprehenfion, peculi
arly necelTary to make some irlTtci ual prO
viiion for the orderly and religious obser
vance of the Lord's day ; for the preven
tion and punishment of the profanation
of the name of God, and every species
of impious imprecation ; for regulating
and leflening the number of houses where
intoxicating liquors are fold and used, for
the fuppreflion of all places of gaming aad
lewd resort; and for the enacting of %
law to prevent theatrical exhibitions of e
very fort. We do accordingly, mod ear*
neftly petition and request, that in fram
ing an ast against vice and immorality ,vcti
would regard, with peculiar attention,
these important objects, ft) as to prevent
the numerous injuries to which our citi
7.ens are thereby exposed, in their morals,
their health, their property, and their
general happineis.
We conceive that the solemn Intima
tions of divine Providence, in the late dif
tre fling calamity which has been experien
ced in this city, urge upon (is, in the mcft
forcible manner, the duty of reforming
every thing which may be offenfive to the
Supreme Governor of the univerle, and
of doing every thing which may impress
on the public mind, a regard to his go
vernment, his providence, his kvvj, end his
ordinances.
The fubje&s to which we have request
ed the attention of the legiflaturc aie cf
confefled importance; they arc, moreover
fubjefts which are not I'o liable to contro
versy, orcollifion of opinion, as to render
U9 deiirou9 of entering into any detail <.f
argument in support of our petition ; ex
cepting only the part which relates to the
atrical exhibitions.
On th«i w; arc aware that a difference
of fentimcnt cxifts. Some coiilidcrat'or.j
are, therefore, fuhjoined, relative to this
fubjict, to which the candid sttertion of
the legiilature is refpe&fully lolicited.
R.lii reliance on this, we cheerfully sub
mit our petition to your w.idato, which,
Fi :! J lOi.
fv. ,
1; i
■Jvl, l\uiA anv wtiici:
ru'e'phia. Dec. i 9, 1793
Sufcribed bv
Annan,
j:u). Du'kws,
Aflibel Green,
Freeborn Garrettfon,
Hcmy Helmuth,
William Marshall,
J ihn Mode.',
Jos. Pilmore,
Wm. Smith,
1 rederick Schmidt,
John F». Smith,
Wm. Rogers,
j jieph Turner,
Thomas Uitick,
Vii: : \.
THE unfriendly influence of theatric?.!
exhibitions or* the morals and facial hap
p.ncis of a community ariles, partly from
the nature oi dramatic compofuion, but
principally tvom the circumftanc.es with
which a public theatre mult always be ac
companied. L.etui» consider tach of these.
J. The nature of dramatic coinpohtion
as it actually exilts in the Englilh language.!
It is not averted here, that uo lefFon of
virtue can be conveyed in a dramatic form,
or that the taflc has not fora&imcs been
executed in fa&. I\y cOnficJering the fnb
je£t in abitraft ioeculations, and by point
ing to a few inifctn&es of innocence or ex
cellence ir dramatic perfonnane. s, the
advocates of the ih -aire uiuall
io iuppuit lilt;:' ta.iie, the ?.»•
ir.euts with which religion and morality
a-Ta!l it. But this is unfair in argument,
and inconchrfive for pra&ice. There are
in fcie.jce a thousand lpenlatiorr. which
haw all the Icmblance of plaufibilitv and
ufer'alnefs, which can never be realized in
experiment, or which the attempt to rea
lize discovers to be worthleis or pernicious.
It is the part of wisdom and found policy"
to discern not only what is pofiible, but
what is practicable; not merely what may
be ccvceived, but what, from thr? actual
ilate of thing* must be expected, or is
known t» take place. Guided by this
rule, and making,as in all reafoli we ought
the great rnafs of dramatic composition
now in the Engli/h tongue, the fubjecl of
decision, it is afierted, that the very na
ture of that composition is unfavourable
to virtue. Let tragedy and comedy be
hefe diitinctly considered.
(To be Continued.)
CONGRESS
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES,
Thursday Jan. 9th. 1794.
( Concluded from our hji.)
The Hoiife then took into consideration
th:' amendments of the committee of the
Whole, to the loft certificate bill.
Mr. Lee proposed a long amendment to
the second lection, which provides for a
different process in the whole bufmefs—
this was in fnbftance, to direst that all
claims on account of destroyed certificates
should be registered in the Treasury, and
alhtement exhibited to the house of Re
presentatives, &c.
This motion met with considerable op-
position,
Mr. Lee at length moved that the bill
with the amendments {hould be recommit
ted to a special committee ; this motion
was agreed to.
In committee of the whole or. the esti
mate of appropriations for tiie year 1794,
Mr. Tnirobuli in the chair.
The and explanatory part
of the rllirmt-' was read by the clerk,and
then a rcfoluticn prepared by Mr. Boudi
not, in couife, that a sum amounting to
be appropriated for the
civil lift and the current services of go-
Ycr:'irc::t for the year 1794.
This refohitloii being read, it was mo
ved tiiat the committee (hould rife ; this
motion was negatived ; the chairman then
read from the eft imate, the items connec
ted with the above refolutiou. The a
mo'jnt of the eftiffate for the above pur
pcfesis, 397,201 collars and 6 cents.
Tlie refolu'iion v/v; agreed to ; the com
mittee then rose and reported progress.
The lioufe tn.k into consideration a
further report of the committee of elefti
t)!is—this report referred to an informali
ty in the certi.u-ate of the returning offi
cer, refpeclir.g the election c.f Mr. Orr,
of Kentucky, also in that of Mr. WJnf
ton of North Carolina.
A motion was made that a resolution
should pass, tin Mr. Orr iiiould keep his
1 jat, and that in the mean time he procure
a new certificate.
'e are able to de-
A motion to recommit the report was
next matir, bat a decision was precluded by
another to adjourn, which took place.
( »o>-
PHILADELPHIA,
Lateß: Foreign Advices.
By the Jhip Eliza, Copt. Hur
rifon, arrived at hew-York
on U r ednefday lajl from Liver
pool, jEnglijh papers are re
ceived to the yijl of OSlober,
1793, from which the fol
io-wing intercjling particulars
are copied
The Prince de Hohenlohe's corps ex
tended on the ift OA. from Limbeig to
Bitche. T!ic French weretr.able to pre
lcrve their poiitions oil this liae the Sarrc.
The PruffiauJ continue to maintain their
polls in the environs of Bitche. Their
patroles go into the hamlets, without any
oppofitio.i being made by the garrison of
the eaitle.
Gen. Summer, who commanded a di
vifionof the army of Italy, is put under
arrest.
leaver
Guiman, a Spaniard, who had found
meansto introduce himfelf into the revo
lutionary committee of May 31, isarref
ted.
The squadron of the Republic, lately
ftationcd under Be'lifle,is returned to Brest
where the commissioners are disembarking
thefick, and imprisoning the fufpe&ed.
The reft are allowed to have no commu
nication with the people on shore.
The camp at St. Vcnant is broke up,
and the troops put into quarters in Brest
and its neighborhood.
Two gunners, Mifvedi, a member of
the felf-ele&ed popular tribunal and a bom
bardier, were lately executed; 400
chants are imprisoned ; the pofi is sur
rounded and all ships ftridlly searched.
* Le Gard is risen to deliver Perpignan,
and complete the deftru&ion of the Spa
nish bands. All the departments are do
ing the fame, and making the rocks re
sound with the clamour of their arms.
Ardecks already fees 4 battalions ad
vancing against Tonlon.
Our lail letters from Vienna are dated
the 2d Oct. They confirm the report of
the traitorous conduct of the Prime Mi
niiler Cobenzi, and inform us, that ano
ther person of rank has been detested in
a treasonable correspondence with the
French. The Count de Cobenzi was car
ried in irons to the fortrefsof Kuflrein
and the latter nobleman is also in confine
ment ; 14 other persons have been taken
up. Tiie prison of Speilberg has been
ordered to be prepared for the reception
of many prisoners, which seems to indi
cate that the number implicated in the
treason of the Prime Miniiler is not small.
The Emperor and Empress leave Vien
na on the 14th init. in order to avoid the
petitions of the family of Cobenzi. The
trial of the miniiler is to commence imme
diately. The fcizure of Semonville's pa
persled to the dil'covery of this treasonable
project.
From Hombourgh we have bsen in
formed, that the bombardment of Saar
Louis, on the lear, commenced on the
2d. inft.
The Auftnans have obtained the poflef
fion of the little fortrefs of Siei k upon the
frontiers of Lorraine, and have made a
movement towards Thionvil'e.
The advanced posts of the Prussians ex
tend almost to the gate of Bitche.
Gen. Kalreuth's detachment is station
ed on this fide Saaibruck, and the French
are poftcd on the othei fide. A continu
al bombardment has taken place Cnce the
29th ult. but the French lliil maintain
their ground, and their entrenchments on
the mountain.
NUARY 10.
DEUX-PONTS, Oa. 5,
PARIS, O&. 13.
MARSEILLES, O&. 1
COLOGNE, Oft. 10.
They cjr.not be attacked in front with-
out great rilk,
On thisaccount Gen. Ingelfdorf is en
deavouring to cross the valley of Keller,
for the purpose of attacking them in the
rear.
The account of an attack meditated on
the lines of Weifiembourg by the Duke
of Brunfwick has been confirmed. The
profiled of iuccefs is not very great, for
the lines are almoit impenetrable.
They are defended in front by strong
abattis, behind these runs the river Lau
ter. On the other fide of the river runs a
ditch with douhle pallifades. behind which
are lines with baiftions. In the rear of the
bastions is an entrenched camp, on the
right of which is Lauterbourg, and on
the left Weiffembourg.
The lines are defended by 170 pieces
of cannon, from 16 to 24. pounders.
TRIAL AND EXECUTION OF
THE QUEEN OF FRANCE.
PARIS, October 16,
Yeileniay morning the once all-power
ful and beautiful Marie Antoniette,
consort of the unfortunate Louis, King
of France, the daughter, fifUr and aunt,
of Emperors, was brought like the mean
est malefa&or from the prison of the Con
eiergerie, and placed at the criminal bar
of the Revolutionary Tribunal.
The act of accusation, as prepared bv
the public accuser, was to the following
purport:
Marie Antoniette Hands charged—ill,
With having dilapidated and lavished the
finances of the nation, in concert with
the execrable Calonne, by earning to be
transmitted to the Emperor several mil
lions, which still serve to carry on the war
againlt France.—2diy, With having, in
imitation of Brunehaud, and De Medi
cis, who also called themselves Queens of
France, consulted against the Liberty of
the French Nation.—jdly, With having
fought to starve the people in 1789. —
4thly, With having excited the murders,
of O&ober 5 and 6.—sthly, With hav
ing in concert with Bailly and La Fay
ette, caused the patriots to be butchered in
the Champ de Mars.—6thly,With having
prevailed upon the Swiss to fire on the
people on the 10th of August 7thly,
Witii having like another Agrippina, for
gotten (he was a mother, in order to com
mit incest with her son.
Shocked, as this unhappy Queen must
have been at feme of the articles of her
accusation, and particularly at the last,
which seems to have been designed to load
her memory with infamy, {he heard them
with magnanimous fortitude and cornpo
fure, and replied without confufion, and
with dignity to the interrogatory, which
began as follows :
President—" What is your name?"—
Queen —" Marie Antoniette, of Lorrain
and Austria."
Prrfident—" Your Quality r"—Queen
—" I am the widow of Louis Capet,
King of the French."
[Here the witnesses were called in.]
Laurent Lecointrc, the firft witness
formerly Chief of a Division of the Na
tional Guard of Versailles, and at present
a Member of the National Convention,
related the historical occurrences of the
sth, and 6th of October ; and from his
relation it appeared, that the ci-devant
Gardes de Corps or Life Guards, were
the fiift aggrefl'ors.
Lecointre spoke also, though not as an
occular witness, of the nocturnal riot
which was oecafioned October ift, at Ver
sailles, by the late King's Life Guards in
the hall of the Opera. " Maria Anto
niette, said he, repaired to that banquet;
(he applauded the condudt of the Guards;
(lie alio vifitedthe regiment of Nafiau and
the Chauffeurs of Trois Eveches, who
were quartered in the Orangerie of the
Gardens of Versailles."
Queen —" I repaired, 1 mull own,
wit'n my huftand and his children to the
Hail ot the Opera House ; but I did not
fee that the national cockade was trode
under foot. It is falfe that I evct spoke
to the soldiers of the Regiment of Nas
sau, or the Chalfeurs of Trois Eveches."
Pref.dent—" What did you lay to the
Life Guards when you appeared at that
orgie—Oueen—" I applauded that ban
quet, becaule it was to have produced the
union of the life guards with the national
guards."
Public Accuser—« Have you not licld
secret councils at the house of the ci-devant
Duchess of Polignac. Councils at which
the ci-devant French Prince; assisted and
in which, after having discussed the fate of
the empire, you gave yourfelf up to the
infamous pleasures of debauchery !"
Queen —" All the state affairs were dif
cuiied in council, and no where else. I
have no knowledge of the reft of this as-
fertion."
Public Accuser—" Are not Thouret,
Barentin, and De Efprcmenil, tlie autliors
of the articles of the declaration of June
23d ?" Queen —" The ministers in place
alone computed the council at that time."
Judge—" Did not your husband com
municate his defignsto you, when he in
vested the Hall of the Representatives of
the people with troops ?" Queen —" My
hufoand repcfed his confidence in me ; lie
communicated to me tlie speech which he
was to have made on that occasion. He
had, in other refpefts, no bad intentions."
Judge—" Why did troops of the line
invest Paris and Vcrfailles i" Oueen—
• For the fake of general fafety."
Judge—" What life have you made of
the immense sums which you have been
entrurted with !" Queen —" No enormous
sum has been entrusted to me ; the ac
compts of my household will provte what
use has been made of all I have received."
Judge—" How did the family of the
Polignacs, who was so poor at iirit, grow
so rich !" Queen —" That family held of
fices at court which were verv lucrative."
The Queen was then questioned ref
pe&ing the flight to Varennes. She ac
knowledged that (lie opened the door and
led the way from the Thuillerics, and that
though they saw M. La Fayette as they
eroded the square of the Carousel, he knew
nothing of their flight.
Hebert substitute of the Commons,
then gave evidence with a view of fubftau
tiating the infamous charge of ir.eeft : and
stated that it was founded upon the con
fefficn of the young Louis himlelf.
When the Tribunal put the question on
this charge. The Queen indignantly re
plied as follows :
" 1 remain, Sir, silent on that fubjeft,
because nature holds all such crimes in ab
horrence," and then turning with an ani
mated air to the people, {he exclaimed,
" I a ppeal to all mothers who aie piefeut
in this auditory—is such a crime possible ?'
After the examination had ciofcd, the
Queen was soon condemned, " its guilty
of having been acceflary to, and having
co-operated :n different manaeuvres against
the liberty of France ; of having enter
tained a correspondence with the enemies
of the Republic; of having participated
in a plot tending to kindle civil war in the
interior of the Republic, by arming citi
zens againit each other."
When the sentence was read, the Queen
cast down her eyes, and did not raise them
again. " Have you nothing to reply up
on the determination of the law ? said the
President to her, " Nothing," she replied.
He then addreiTed himfelf to her pleaders,
" and you officious defenders." Our mis
sion is fulfilled with refpeft to the Widow
Capet," said they.
This morning (the 16th) this unhappy
vi&im of democratic fury was iguominiouf
ly carried to the place of execution in a
common cart. The whole armed force of
Paris was on foot from the Palace of Jus
tice to the Place de la Revolution. The
streets were lined by two very close rows
of armed citizens. The Queen was in a
white loose dress—but they had tied her
arms behind her. As she pafled along, the,
multitude frequently cried out " bravo."
At the place of execution (he looked firm
ly round her on all fides. She was accom
panied by the ci-devant curate of St. Lan
dry, a constitutional priest, and on the
fcaffold prcferved her natural dignity of
mind.
After the execution three young per
fonsdippedtheir handkerchiefs inherblood,
They were immediately arretted.
Fronfon de Condray and Chaveau de la
Garde the pleaders for Marie Antoniette,
had been put in a state of arrest before her
execution, by order of the Committee of
General Safety. The order fays, that this
is a meafurc ef General Safety, that the
arrest (hall last twenty-four honrs, and that
every attention (hall be paid to these pri
soners.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
October 12.
Barrcre read a letter from Chateauneuf
Randon, dated Hestfd Quarters, at Lyons
Oct. 9, which ran as follows :
4< Citizens Colleagues,
" The actions of the 25th and 29th of
have been closely followed by pro?
digics of valor, and to night the troops
of the Republic entered Lyons. Thechiefs of the rebels, 2000 in number have
made an attempt to save themselves by
flight, but they are pursued on all fides,
and cannot pofiibly escape, not only the
ardor of our troops, but also that of the
people of Lyons, enraged at tbeir having
been deceived by them. I previously in
formed my colleagues of our entrance in
to Lyons. Gen. Doppet is going by an
extraordinary courier to fend a detailed
report of his military operations. Cou
thon, Mdignet, Laporte, Dubois, Cranee
and BafTel, who we had joined at St. Fox
are on the point of repairing hither, and
will be eager to inform you of all our o
perations. My Colleagues wish to keep
me here ; I the orders of the Na
tional Convention.
Chateauneuf R. an do v.
Signed,
P. S. " I have detained the courier to
inform you that the rebels have been pur
sued and cut to pieces on ail fides : their
train of artillery and the treasure which
they carried off are taken."
Barrere. The committee has deter
mined that not one criminal ought to es
cape ; they htve ordered the fugitives to
be pursued, and the tocsin to be founded
all over the country, in order that the peo
ple may be raj fed to exterminate them.
The traitors mull be taken, their pun
ithment mult be speedy : it is propel that
the inhabitants of Lyons Ihould be dil
armed, and their arms confided to the
youth of the South, who will employ them
agiiuft the (laves of Spain. But will you
allow a city Jo exist, which by its rebellion
has caused so much blood of the Patriots
to be Ihed? Who lhall dare to demand
your indulgence for this rebellious city ?
What ought you to refpeft in your ven
geance ! The houle of the indigent per
lecuted by the rich, those manufacturers
of which the barbarous English so eager
ly deli re the deltru&ion. What ought
you to refpeft ! The asylum of humanity,
the edifice consecrated to public instruc
tion. The plough ought to pats over the
reft. When the Pruflians last year inva
ded the territory of the Republic, the
Sgu.h affected courage and republicanism.
At present all is changed, the North now
defends Liberty, and the South makes war
upon it. In this fituition a great exam
ple is necefiWy, I propose the following
decree :
Art. I. u There lliall be named by the
National Convention, upon the presenta
tion of the committee of public fafety, an
extraordinary com million composed of five
members, in order to punilh the Revolu
tionills of Lyons according to military
law, and without delay.
11. ' All the inhabitants of Lyons (hall
be disarmed ; their arms (hall be immedi
ately distributed among the defenders of
the Republic. A part (hall be reftoied to
the Patriots of Lyons, who have been op
pressed by the rich and the counter-revo
lutionists.
111. " The city of Lyons (hall bede
ftroyed. Whatever was inhabited by a
rich man, (hall be demolished. The poor
houfe the dwellings of (laughtered and
proscribed patriots, the edifices specially
employed to iuduftry, and the monuments
consecrated humanity and public instruc
tions, (hall alone remain.
IV. " The name of Lyons (hall be ef
faced from the lift of the towns of the
Republic. The re-union pre
served (hall henceforth bear the name of
Ville Artranchie.-
V. " A column (hall be raised upon the
ruins of Lyons, to attest to posterity the
crimes and the punishment of the Royal
ills of that city, with this inscription,
" Lyons warred againjl Libertx—
" I.roNS—ii no more.'—
" The eighteenth Day of the JirJl Month,
" Second Tear of the Repullic,
" One and Indivijille."
VI. " The Representatives of the peo
ple shall immediately nominate commissi
oners to make a lilt of all the property
which belonged to the rich and counter,
revolutionists of Lyons, that the refoluti.
ons of the Convention may be immedi
ately carried into execution."—Decreed.
LONDON.
Fromthe London Gazette Extraordinary.
Whitehall, Odoler 11,
Lajl tiigbt the Right Hen. Lord George
Cor.ivay arrived at the office of the Right
Hon. Lord Grenville, hit majefly's princi
pal Secretary of State for Fortign Affairs,
with a dispatch from the Earl of Tar mouth,
cf •which the following is an extract.
Waffemhcurg, 08. I 4» 1 7 93 ■
Stujir'wn Head Quarters.
Teller day morning at three € clod, Ge
neral IVurmfur nuule his prv.eQed attack
j upon the fines of the Lauvre, upon Various
points at the fame time. I have thefatisfic
tion to fay thai he is in poffejf on of every
part of them. Lauterbourg surrendered,
without any conditions, between three and
four in the evening, after* being evacuated
by the enemy, who, from the prodigious
number of redoubts oj which they were in
poj-effion, and the natural jlrengih of the
position, might have held out a siege of se
veral days.
This town rcfijhd some time longer. It
is surrounded by a large ditch', and <was de
fended by redoubts, from which the French
cannonaded the Auflrians for federal hours.
It is also connected with the Gielfberg, a
mountain which so entirely commands the
place, that if the French had determined on
deriving every advantage from their filia
tion, the Aujlricns could not have entered
into poffejjwn of it, without further successes
is the mountains. A part of the town was
burnt :n the course of the flruggle ; and the
French, before they retreated, set fire to
their magazines, both here and at AJfladt.
In other parts of this very complicated ope
ration, in which fix different columns had
dijlinfi plans to great success attend
ed the Auflrians. They fuccejfively carried
by ajfault all the different redoubts which
had been covflrufied in the front of the
French camps, of which the principal one
fell into tnto their hands, with all their
tents funding, several c affords, nine Jland
ards, and twenty fix canuons of very great
( calibre.
As these different anions are but jujl
overj and the Auflrian corps are very re
mote from each other, it is impojfible for me
to transmit to your Lortifhip, any account of
the killed, wounded or taken on either fide.
The army has been fourteen hours under
arms y almojl continually engaged in a very
aSlve pursuit, and often exposed to a inofl
tremendous Jire.
V/t have as yet no dflir.3 account of the
operations of the Duke of Brunfwick's ar
my yefler da] in the mountain, but a very great
cannonade was heard on that fide during the
•whole day.
Right Hen. Lord Grenville.
IVhkehall, Oflober 2 2
A letterfrom Sir James Murray, adju
tant General to the forces under the command
of his Royal Highness the Duke of Tork y
was received this evening by the Right Hon.
Henry Dundas t his majefly i s principal Se
cretary of State for the Home Department,
of which the following is a copy.
Engcl Fontaine, 0&. 18, 1793
Sir,
I had. the honor of informing you, in
my lad dispatch, that his Royal Highness,
at the earned request of the Prince of
Cobourg, had marched with a part of the
troops under his command, for this place.
They arrived here upon the 16th. The
prince, being acquainted with his Roval
Highnefs's intention, had been enabled to
withdraw from thence fodr battalions to
strengthen his other ports : a fifth batta
lion followed those upon his Royal High
nefs's arrival.
The eaemy, having collected in extra
ordinal y numbers, attacked the coips un
der the command of Gen. Clairfayt, which
was ported with its right near Berlemont,
and its left near the village of Wattigwie*,
upon the 15th and 16th. Upon the for
mer day the left wing of the enemy was
entirely defeated. Having advanced into
the plain which lay upon that fide between
the two armies, they were charged by the
Imperial cavalry, and driven back, with
great (laughter and the loss of twelve pie
ce« of cannon. The attack which they
made upon the left of the Auftrians was
more obstinately supported j they were,
however, finally repulsed.
Upon the 16th the enemy having drawn
the greatest part of their force to the right,
again attacked the left of Gen. Clairfayt's
corps, and the village of Wattigwies.
They could upon this fide approach
within cannon Ihot of the Auftrians, un
der cover of an immense wood, called the
Have d'Avefnes ; which, when they were
repulsed, secured their retreat; they bro't
a great quantity of heavy artillery to the
edge of the wood, under the protection of
which they attacked the village. The ut
most firmnefs and bravery were displayed
by the Austrian troops upon this occasion.
The enemy were several times repulsed
with great loss; they were repeatedly dri
ven from the village after they had earned
it; but being enabled, by great superio
rity of numbers, to bring continually frclh
troops to the point of attack, they at lail
succeeded in maintaining the poflcfiios (■{
that post.
The communication between General
Clairfayt's corps and that of General la
Tour, which observed the entrenched cam])
near Maubeurg, being by this means cut
off, it was judged necefikry by the Prince
ofCobourg to abandon thepoiitioli which
had been taken for the pnrpofe of in veil
ing Maubeuge, the army pafied the Sam
bre in the night without the smallest lois.
Lieutenant General Benzowllcy, who
commanded a detached corps upon the left
of the army, defeated a corps which was
opposed to him, killed a great number of
the enemy, took four hundred prisoners,
and eleven pieces of cannon. Count I lad
dick, who was detached by Gen. I-a Tour,
likewise gained a coniiderabie advantage,
penetrated to Sorbe Chateau, and took
three pieces of cannon.
In the two engagements, the Auftrians
took twentv-four pieces of cannon and two
howitzers, without the loss of one on their
part. They have had about two thousand
men killed and wounded. There can be
no doubt that the loss of the enemy has
beet much more confideiable. The Auf
trians now occupy the left bank of the
No cota'n accounts have betn
yet received of the further morons of the
enemy. I am, &c.
Sambre
JAMES MURRAY,
(.•ngntil)
October 24
We have just received a letter frcm Of
tend, dated the 22d 111 ft. at one o'clock,
P. M. which contains the following in
terelling paragraph :
" An express has this moment arrived
from the army of the Prince of Cobourg,
informing us, thnt after having re-croiTcd
the Sambre on the night of the 17th inft.
and expecting an attack from the enemy,
he sent Gen. Clairfait with 30,000
a circuitous route to lie in wait for them,
and retreated with the main army. As he
expe&ed, the enemy fell 011 him in great
numbers, but by this judicious measure,
they were attacked front and rear at the
fame period, and 15,000 men killed and
taken, with several pieces of cannon. Trie
Britifli troops had not arrived to (hare in
the glory oi the day."
Lord Howe failed with the fleet under
his command fix m Torbay, on Sunday
morning; but in consequence of diipatch
es sent from London, and forwarded to
hit lordihip by a fwift failing cutter, he
returned again to port, after being but a
few hours at sea !
Upon the probability that Brest and
Bourdeaux are ready to imitate the exam
ple of Toulon, Lord Hood is said to have
permitted four French /hips of the line to
leave the latter place, under flags of truce,
for those ports —Extraordinary as f'tch a
circumstance may appear, this, peilups,
is the bed method of making the experi
ment, whether the loyal patty has, or has
not, the ascendency at them.
PORTSMOUTH, Ottoler 24.
Particulars of a late action,
This morning came into harbour the Cres
cent frigate, Capt. Saunmrex, w'-th Le
Reunion, a French man of war, of 36
guns, commanded by Alonfieur Detune,
which she captured on Sunday morning, off
Cherbonrg, after an aSion of two hours
and 25 minutes.
The aSian began about ten o'cloii in the
morning, within pijlolJhot, ahuut four miles
wejl of Cherbourg. At firjl there was, a
light breeze of wind, which soon died away
to a perfect calm.—Karly in the aclion the
Crescent endeavoured to rale the Reunion but
the Frenchman avoided it ly luffing up i the
Lead fails, however, being at length Jhot
away, Capt. Saumarrz got upon the enemy's
quarter, rilled her fore and ast, thereby
sweeping the main-deel, and in twenty jive
minutes after twelve M. Denone Jlrucl his
colours.
The Reunion had 33 men Idled, and
48 fevtrely wounded; mid it is a circum
fiance that can hardly be credited, though
firiflly true, the Crescent had only one man
materially hurt ivhofe leg was hurt by a
carriage wheel, and three others Jlightly.
SHIP NEWS.
Arrived at New-York.
Ship Eliza, Harrifon, Liverpool, 9 weeks.
Sloop Cyntliia, Winfee, St. Martins.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, January 9, 1794
6 per cents, 18f
<0/ to iof\
"/
3 ditto,
Deferred,
tJ. S. Bai.k,
N. A. ditt J,
Pcnafylva'.iia do.
Ijj per cent, advance.
20 ditto ditto.
. - ditto ditt«.
Extract of a letter from Nantz, dated
O&ober 16th, 1793, to Captain Mo-
I nary, Philadelphia,
I cannot lend you any news mote a
greeable or more glorious than, that the
Republic is saved notwithstanding the in
famous treasons that daily coine to light.
Cuftine fnffercd last month and many ge
nerals, who where of his plot, have itiarcd
his fate, but no matter, all is well, cairn.
England has loft 10 thousand tnen be
fore Dunkirk, and Spain has 101 l her three
camps near Perpigwan. We are in-Cata
lonia. The king of Savoy has lott all Ins
dominions, except Piedmont, where he •»
loclofely hemmed in, that he cannot ef-
cape : his treasure, cannon, and ammu
nition have ail fallen into our hands. Ly
ons is reduced to allies : 10 thousand emi
grants were there put to the sword, after
having sustained a (lege of two months#
Ail that remains to be iubdued is the de
voted town of Toulon, which has been
betrayed to the Englifn, and which we
are now dofely beficging with an army of
72 thousand men. Aa tor the lawleis bau-
Hitti of this country, who were io iniigm
ficant when you kft this, they are become
an objcffc of serious concern. In Jn- c
If ft, two hundred thoijCn;d of t-licm at
tacked us at all the points in the city, l>nt
were repulfcd with coufulcrable loss : iluy
two months, 180 thousand men of the
republican troops have been in puiiuit of
these insurgents. V
Not n day paftcs but they attack them,
and it is probable that before the end of
this month they will be utterly deftroyc.l.
All the navy, and all the merchantmen
are called into actual service. Preparati
ons are making for a descent on England,
and it is thought, that the troops hew,
consisting of ISO thousand men, are in
tended for that expedition. Naples ai: 1
the Duke of Tufcany have just deciaud
vvaragainftus. No matter; we are driv
ing all before us. The Auilrians, PruCi
ans, Hcffians and Dutch can hold out na
longer.
A frefh levy of 450 thousand men lira
lately been completed, uil well anned and
equiped; a part of them are ahead} 0:1
:he frontiers, and the reft arc loon tc
low. Another levy is now rsifiiig of the
like number, 40 thousand cavalry are al
ready enrolled, and on tlieir march for the
frontiers,
The firlt levy was composed of men of
every rank without diftindtion, from the
age of 18 to 2j, and the other levy whiih
is almost completed, is to be ccmpofed of
men from the age of 25 to j?. Every
young man and widower without children,
is obliged to march. All uteptils of ioa
and hells are carried to the national fenri
deries. Our calender is reformed. Men
of improved underiiandinrs have introduc
ed more order into it, and made it
worthy of a free people. We 1-ve expel
led from it all the flints, all the monu
ments of ignorance and fanaticifiri vvh'i h
have done so much milchief, a id which
are the causes of oar prefer.t fuffering*.
Inltead of those vile miscreants who owe
their canonization to their ilugg:lh li e
and their imbecility, we have fub'.tituwd
the names of those heroes who have done
honor to human nature in ancient times,
and who arc now our models. The months
are of 30 days, the wee!:s <-f 10, and at
the end of each week, a day is confec: at-d
to repose, and to the celebration of the
epoch of our immortal revolution. Four
hundred merchants and stockjobbers have
been executed at Maifcilles. This exam
ple has made that town and Bourdcux re
turn to the principles of our revolution.
Commercial ariltocracy attempt d to suc
ceed the arift cracy of tiir nobles and the
priesthood, but this the interior aepan
ments did not relish. We (hall be free,
and we (hall leave to posterity either a
dreadful caiaflrophe to bewail, or grand
examples for imitation.
ADVERTISEMENT,
I'irgtnia, Kottfi»tnkftt*nd(o**t*. D«c. «8, 1793-
FOR SALE,
A Valuable Tract of LAND,
in thu county, containing about eight
hundred acre*, one founh of which is low
grounds, of cxcdlcn# quality; Ihe other three
fourths is high l.ir.d, well coveted with oak,
hickory and chcfnut.
TltC fuuaflon is plrafant and Wealthy, on Yro
comico river, about three mill* from the Puio
mack. There is on it • two ilory brick dwri?
ling-house, with four rooms and a prfTtgc on
each floor, cxcluiive of closets ; a i;ood k'tchcr,
and othei nec<ff.««y ont-l.oufcs It l»*s oicha»da
of apple and p ach tre«>, and •* w»ll *»;r»cd
bv many drligh'ful fpiingk. The ' e
kn <wn on aupbration to the Honorable JOHN
HfcATH, tn Philadelphia, or to the liblcni'ff,
livmj* on iht p»rimfc*.
JOHN GOt-
J«l». 10
:\>r t!ui-TO THE PUBLIC.
r appo»n*Pc* hy
1 TH SOCIETY for ihc INSTITU
TION * n SI PPOttT «•» FIRST-DAY r,r
SVVDaY SCrtOOli! in city ol Pl<ilat 4 cl-
d'.e, >rtr (i:unCf "t «S'.»u'bwark rtic
" uj loitcit lunhn fu'-fc.in-
Ni"i;;cu: 1.
'c»es,
tions fll »hr fu;-.port o' the frhools which liit
fatd society haVe eflabliftted, take the liberty to
rrpirf'iK to ihcir citizens—
Thai, although the f< hcolf were fnf,>endrd
ii• pcll >d <:f ill l- iau a-t 1 1• i i■l.iin :> \
v*. i* ii I-,,; it our cit v and fubmlis hccnal
f •d,• ; n y ,h\- now opfiini or the free
«-dif -it->r> <•? poor cfithlKtl.
f ii.ii, the neofli'v and reasons for th.- rftob
ttflimcn; of tliefe schools are mcie.-f d, Com the
cncumflance of the Lie diUnfs having lift a
nnmher of Orphans di Uutite of all the means
ol •due**ion, fate what the hand of benevolence
ina\ admuiiflc
That, former « xperirnce has, mod pleasingly,
vrrifi d «hc fond (I hopes of ihe friends of this
inftimnon, with ic>;ard to thf piogrefs an 1 ad
vancentent of the children, who have heretofore
been under i.s caie, in the ufeful branches of
education wfii. nit has ast >rd« d. Referring to
this fafl', and to the nddxTs to the publ-c, on
tlvs fubjrfl, publ'fhed in the nrwfpapers of this
ci;y 'n the thud ra >nth last, when about eight
hundred and twenty children of both fixes hid
partaken of the benefits afforded by the society,
and about three hundr d ond twenty more were
th-n a&uaiiy receiving inftrn&ioti in their
fehools, it now only icmains to be ohferved,
that th'* funds of the foriety are greatly infuffi
ricnt to cany on their benevolent deftgns, and
that the commuter formerly appointed to folictt
fu'ofcription*, concaved it necessary to decline
inrir applications to their fellow-citirens for
'heir afliftance in f»vor of thefr fehools, in otder
that thcie might he no intetTup'ion from them
to thr foliciteiions riien made tn hehalf'of their
un/oMuuatc brethren from Fr*nrois.
Thr public aid is now there'oje earncftly So
licited to fyoport a chat <r?ble cftablilhmrnt, cal
eulated upon 'he princinl s of public and pri
vate good. The annual fubfrriptioti for mcm
bct is hut One J) >31ar ; and it is pre fumed iha:
so fm«»l! a f\!in p<r anuum cannot be bxitcr dif
pofrd of, by those who can afford it, than by
beftou ingit as the pricc of the difF .ifion of ufclu!
knowledge the poor and frirndlefl.
Subfcnpiipn* and donnt'ons will be gratefully
rfrcv<,d by the undernamed committoe on be
half of the fociet v :
Peter Thornpfon,
Thomas P. Cope,
Joseph P'iec-,
V.dwaid P.ile,
J;irnrs H
Will.am Inn is.
F.betiei:r» I » T £e,
] ir*»i» Canffman,
J m<*s Todxl,
| «fenb J inn's,
] mathai. Pi nrofc,
Choi Mi a«!c,
} -iui Prior,
Say,
Nd.haniel Falconer,
Francis Bailey,
1 rfl> Sharplef*,
Samuel ScoUen,
Pet< r Barker.
J'»hn M'Crfc,
Robert Jt lift on,
Thomas Annat,
Gfoigc William.*,
Jan. i
ADVERTISEMENT.
FOR. the benefit of those w!w maybe con
cerned it may not b? improper to notice,
that the United States, by their Ast of the 12th
of February 1793, ordered that all Claims of
the defcriptinn therein mentioned, and which
originated previous To the 4th of March 1789:
be profented nt the Treasury on or before the
firft day of May 1794, otherwi e they will
" forever thereafter, be bar ed, and exclu
-44 ded from Settlement or allowance." And
as there may be several Creditors of the Uni
ted States, holding Certificates 01 other Se
curities, which form a part of the Domestic
D.'bt, and who wish to fubferibe to the Loan,
they are reminded that the term fur receiving
fublcriptions at the Treasury, is by the Ast of
the United States, passed thefecond of March
last, extended to the last day of June, 1794.
The following is an extaft from the Ast of
Limitation above referred to :
Sfctton I. i( 3r it ensAed by the Senate
and House of Reprefentatires of the United
St ires of America, in Congress aftembled—
Thar all claims upon the United States, for
Services or Supplier, or for other caufc, mat
ter or thing, furnifhed or done, previous to
the 4th day of March l 7&9, whether founded
upon Certificates, or other written documents
from Public Officers or otherwise. which have
not already been barred by any A& of Limi
tation, and which shall rot be presented at
the Treasury before the firft day of May 1794,
shall for ever after be barred and prescribed
from fettlenient or allowance : Provided
th.it nothing herein contained, shall l>e con!
ft ued to affett Lonn-Office Certificates, Cer
tificates of Final Settlements, Indents of In
terest, Balances entered in the books of the
register of the treasury commonly called regif
tered certificate*,loans of monies obtained in
foreign countries, or certificates ifTued pursu
ant to the Ast, intitled " An Ast, making pro
vision for the Debt of the United States.
To be Sold,
AT P si If AT E S A L F,
A Valuable Lot of 16
Aciea of I.AND, lying on the great read lead
ing from Pi inccion to Trenton, , J miles from
P.inceton ; will, a tan-yard, b.rk-houfe, beam.
..We and currying-diop, a never failing ft,earn
of wa.fr running through the fame ; , „„ ed
dw,l„n,-hour<-, with an eiury and , wo r ° omi
•ft lliHowrr flncr, and three on lhe upper fl„ or .
a kitchcn adjoining, wnh a crllar under
and a well of waier at ihe door r also
170 -armg apple-trees, and two or three afr~
c w.te rd me,dow. There will be an indif.
P l '.: kiltie given- Any pe.lon inclining
putehile, may know the term, of (ale by an
plying toihe Sulifcribrr on ihe premifea
MATTHEWCLARRF,
September 14, 1793- (e ri wj ,
Encyclopedia,
JUST PUBLISHED,
Uy THOMAS DOBSON,
ar the Stone Hmile, in Second
ft reel Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionary
Of A ts, Sciences, and Miscellaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
Br WHICH
The Different Science* and Arts,
are d'grjied into the form of
Diltintt Treaties or Sylienis :
TIIIS volume contains principles of Levels,
Liberty, Dxfti ine of Lighr, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
d"n, Longirude, Luther, Lvdia> Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetifni, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with 2 great variety of Biographical and
Mi fee! la neon* articles, illulkrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number of families are still in the
country, and it if not generally known who
"Streretuvned. T. D>bfon, solicits the favor
°i the fubfcrbers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poflible.
The tskth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an imperfect state, fume ac
count of the reason of that imperfection should
be :iven. On the 8:h of September last, the
Pub'ifhsr had the misfortune of haviog his
Printing O/fice burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,.
and amo-jg other articles, the tigubes, with
which he was printing the tables of lo
garithms, be'onging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As afupply of these could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the necessity of pub
lifting the volume without the'e tables; but
hopes he fiiall be able to publish them with the
next volume which is now in considerable for-
wardnefs.
The Publi flier embraces this opportunity of
exprefTing his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking lias been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to such of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necefGty of
punctuality, both in taking up the volumes as
early as poffib e after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the fub
feribers having got only one, two, three, &c.
volumes, and several volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these triftes unpaid lays the Publiflier under
very serious embarrafTmeot,and depr.iveshim
of the use of many Thoufandsof Dollars which
at this time would be of very eflential service.
For tbefe reasons the Pttblifher finds himfelf
under the ncceflity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those who
take and pay to the time of publication.
Dccembcr 10.
ADVERTISEMENT.
New-Jersey, ) t)Y virtue of a Writ to me
Sussex County.fr. $ U-direftrd, ifTued out of
the High Court of Chancery of New-Jerfev, at
thefuit ot William Shipley against John Ming
and Oliver?; I shall expose to sale at Public Ven
due, on the sixth day of Fcbrua.y next, between
the hours of Twelve and Five in the Afternoon
o 'ame day, on the Premises, the following
described Tract of Land, with its appurtenances,
firuate in the Township of Oxford and County
of Suffix, beginning at a Chefnut Oak Tree, cor.
ner of Daniel Cox's land, and Handing j n the
line of a former futvey made to Thomas Stevcn
fon, bring maiked with the letter B. and thonee
extending along Coxc's line (Rift) (oulh fitly de
grees wefl fifty.five chains and feventy-five links
toa Black Oak Treecoiner of Jofcph Shippen's
land (Cecond) Couth nine degrees and fifteen mi.
nutes, weft ninety chains and Cutty fi»e links to
a forked White Oak Tree, marked with the let.
lets P and B another ol thr said Shrppen's cor.
n.rs (thud) ihence norlh eighty degrees, east one
frond red and forty-five chains, lo a post on the
southerly fide of Paquaoltc.R iver, being alfoa
corner of John Reading's land (lourth) thence
north thirty-nine degrees weft, on( . hundred
and thirty.two chains to the place of beg.nning
•obtaining nine hundred and thirty acres with
the usual allowance for roads and high ways-
Tfie fame Premises are within eight miles of ihe
River Delaware, and there is thereon a conveni
ent Grift Mill with two pair of Stone* a Saw
Mill in good repair, with >fufl-.cient ft rc ,m of
water for their use—a Dwelling House Store
House, and several fmali hurdinp.
MARK THOMPSON,Sheriff,
Dated 22d day of July, 1793.
notice
TS hereby gi ren , to the Mtmn! of the
JL insurance Company of NortmAm£*ica
1 hat the third Instalment, being Two Dollars
on each share of the Stock, is to be paid a.
greeably to the Conftitnrion, on the second
Monday [the 13th day] of January ne*t: And
a Ctttrjl Kittling of the Stockholders is to 1*
held nn the Succeeding day, for the ptirpofe of
chooUilg Fiji ten Dirtflirs, examining into the
Situation of the Company's Affairs, and ma
king such additional Rules and Regulations
as they shall judge neceflsry.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Secratary
D « C - t6 - IllW&f tj. ,j
Vol. X,
A New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
R. AITKEN,
No. 22, Marketft reel,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philad;lplii>, for promoting Ufefu]
Knowledge, Vol. 3. P,ice zof in hards
The fubrcribers are requested to call
as above for the Jjd vol. where may
he lmd, complete setts. uniformly printed.
i. An cfljyon those enquiries in Natural Phi.
lofophy, which at present aremoft benefici
al to the United States of North America.
Dr. Nichtlaj Collin,
3. Conjecture? concerning the formation of
the earth, Jcc. Dr. B. Franklin.
3. A new and curious theory of Light and
Heat. Dr. B. Franklin.
4- Defcripton of the process to be observed
in making large ftierts of paper in the Chi
nese manner, with one smooth furface.
. Dr. B. Franklin.
;. Queries and conjectures relative to Mag
netism, and the theory of the Earth.
. Dr. B. Franklin.
o. Explanation of a lingular phenomenon, firft
obftrved by Dr Franklin, and not fatisfac
torily accounted for. Mr. It. Pattirjnn.
7. An account of an Earthy Subftanco found
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls ; together with
some remarks on the Falls.
Jtokn M'CatJb, M. D.
8. Observations on the probabilities of the
duration of Human Life, and the progress
of population, in tile United States of Am®.
I ' ca * tl'i/ham Barton, TJq.
9. A letter containing nbfervations made at
Lake Erie, on that Angular phenomenon,
by seamen termed looming.
Andrew F.Hiiot
10. An Account nf (he Sugar Maple-Tree
of the United States, and of the methods
ot obtaining Sugar from it, together with,
observations upon the advantages both pub.
lie and private of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rujk, M D
it. Memoir on the use of the Thermometer
in discovering Banks, Soundings, &r.
fomthan Ffa.
-.2. An Account of the mod elfiftual means
of preventing tlie'deleterious consequences
of the bite of the Crotalus Horridm, or R, t .
tie Snake. Benjamin Smith Bar/or, M D
.3. Magnetic Observations, ma( j e at the
verfity of Cambridge, (Maflachufetts.)
Dr. S. Wm'a.ns.
14. Accurate determination of the right as
cension and declination of Bootes, and the
Pole Star. Andrew LUicott, £/i.
IJ. Account of several Houses in Philadelphia
struck with Lightning, on June ;th, , 789'
, . . „ I)av " i RtUinhotfe, If*.
16. An Account of the effects of a stroke of
Lightning on a Houle furniffied. ,rith two
Conductors. fIW Rmexk.ufc, and Fr.ncis
lUphrfen, F.fqrs.
17- Experiments and Observations on EvaDo
ration in cold Air. C. H'Jlar, M J)
1& Postscript to Mr. Barton's Letter m
Dr. Rittenhoufe, of the , 7, of March
19. New Notation of Music. '
sawtl J.
Mr. R. Pdth rfon
20. Observations on tfie Theory of Water
Waring
19. Agronomical Observations.
David Ritletihmft.
20. A letter relative to a method of findtnc
the film of the several powers of the. Sines
&c ' Dami Rimnhoufc, Eft '
21. Index Florae Lancaftrienfis.
Hmruo Muhhnbtrg, D. T>
21. Inveuigation of the power ofjjr. Bar
ker's Mill, as improved by James ftumfey
with a defcnptioii of the mill. IV. H'arirjr
2J. A Thermom.trical Journal of the tem
perature of the Atmofphcre and Sea, on a
voyage to and from Oporto, with explana
tory observations thereon.
jenathu, William, Ffq
34• First memoir of observations on the plants
denominated Cryptogamick.
'As. Dt Beauvfiif.
25. A letter, containing observations on the
ancient works of Art, the- Native Inhabi.
tants, &c. of the Wettern Country.
M "J«r )ontthan Hitrt.
264 An account of some of the principal dies
employed by the North American Indians.
Extracted by the late Mr. H* g h Mtrliv.
17. An account of the beneficial effects of the
Calfia Chaniaecrifta in recruiting worn-out
land*, and in enriching such as are natural
ly poor ; together with a botanical descrip
tion of the plant.
J"*ti Granivay of Virginia.
Ib. An account of a hill on the borders of
North Carolina, fnppofed to have been a
in a letter from a Continental of
ficrr, to Dr. J. Grcewuoy, Virginia.
29. An Accountof apoifanous plant, grow
ing spontaneously in the southern part of
Virginia. Extracted. from a paper by
. Dr - Jams Cremway, V„gjnia.
30. Description of a Machine for mealurine a
(hip's way. Francis Hqkivfm Ffi,
31. An Inquiry into the question, whcHirrthe
Apis Mellifica, or true Honey-Bee, is „ na .
tive of America. Benjami, Smith
32. An Account of a Comet.
Drntd Rittenhcufcy F.Jj.
33. Cadmus or a Treatifeon the Elements of
Written Language, illustrating, by 3 Philo
sophical division of Speech, the power „(
each character, thereby mutually fixing t|, e
Orthography and Orthoepy, with an Effav I
00 the mode of teaching the Dea.', or SuJ I
And to be fold by
Contents of Vol. 3 </.
and consequently ,Dmnb to fpeal<, byWm,
Thornton, M. D. Honored with the Ma-
Rellanic Gold Medal, by the Fhilofuphictil
Society, in December, 1792. . N. B.
Cadmtt 11 printed in a fine 8. vol. and fold
by the Publisher hereof.
J4- Obftrratio.i* on the Thoory of Water-
M'Hs. W. Hiring.
35- An Improvement on Metalic Conductors
or Lightning rods-. Mr. Robert r*tterJon.
Honored with Ihe Magellanic Premium, by
an Award of the Society in December i *92.
36. Aneafy and expeditious method of dis
sipating the noxious Vapour commonly
found in Wells and other fubterraneom
P' ace '- F.bcriczcr Robirfon t Ifq.
37* A method of draining Ponds in level
r grounds. JeJJe Wiggins.
38. Observations on the severity of the win-
* er > 1 779, 1782. Ret'' Matthew WHJtfn.
39- A Description of a new Standard for
Weights and Measures; io a letter front
Mr. John Cooke r of Tipperary in Ireland.
40, Description of a SpiUNc-Block, designed
to aifift a Velfal in failing. Pravcis Hopkin-
Jon, Lfq. Honored *ith the Magellanic
Gold Medal, by an Award of the Society
in December 1790.
December 20.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South SecondJlreet 9
Seconddoor bdow the corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and
A large and general AJJbrtment of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be disposed of on the lowest terms.
Dec. 23. raw&ftf
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths & Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREIT,
HAVE FOR SALE,
ytn eleranf AJJartment of
SILVER is? PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY &Jfc CUTLERY,
Which they, will dispose of on the most r»a
fonable terms- Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and jilver
way, done as ulual.
December 24.
ALL persons having any demand again#
the Estate and EfFects of Mrs. MARY
SINDREY, widow, late of Frankford, Ox
iord township, in the State of Pennsylvania,
deceased; are desired to produce their a'c
counts to Jacob Leshe* and Willi am Creed,
(in Frankford, atorefaid,) Executors and Ad
ministrators of the above in oider for settle
ment. And whoever is indebted to said Kf
tate, &c. are requeued to make payment toi
Administrators, on or before the
16th of March, 1794, or they will be dealt
with according to law.
Frankford, Dec. 16.
.Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-ltrect, Nsw-Yohk.
THE Subfcribtr intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHAS£ & SALE of
! STOC.KS.on COMMISSION, b.gi leare to of.
. trr hit ferviecaro his friends and other*, in the
line ol a Stock Broker. Those who may pleafr
to favor him with their buftnefa, may depend
upon having it tranfafied with tbe utin,' ft fide.
. lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or »„y
other part of the United Stales, will he flriAiY
attended to. LEONARD BI.EECKER.
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening- for Sale,
By M. CARE Y,
No. 118, MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuablecolle&ion ofBOOKS,
imported from London in the Mohawk.
Dee. 19.
Seat of War.
For Sale, at M. CAREY's Store,
No. 118, Market-street,
A Sheet Map of the
French, Austrian and Dutch Netherlands in
which the progress of tlie prefer.t War may
be traced Price three r , g htki of a d,IUr.
And a Map of the Three WorthemDiftriAs
of France, divided into Departments
Puce $ of a dollar.
Maps of the United
VW Any puUic r P iri « f d gentlemen, pos
sessed of material, for correcting and impror
ing the Maps ot the several State*, will lay
M. Carey under very particular obligations,
by communicating rticni. He win immediate
want of fume tor New.jerfij, and Delaware;
of waich States he u now preparing Maps.
Guthrie's Geography:
The fubfeription for this wo k will be con
timied open, at the present rate of twelve
dollar, till ,he «rfl day of November next;
after which, it wiU be raised to fourteen dol
lars.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No, 3 ,
SouUi Fourth-Strett.
eodaw.
mw&ftf
t&ftf.