EVENING AD V E R T I S E R.
[No. 61 of Vol. V.]
Pliilofophical Lectures,
By J. M; RAY.
ROM Edinburgh, lately front Paris,
A- tcacher of Hebrew, &c. languages, au
thor of Coraprehenfive View of Philolophical,
Political# and Theological SYstems, from the
creation of the world to the present time, &c.
He will begin this second course of Le&ures
1-frbru.try 27th, at 6 o'clock in the evening, in
the Friends' grammar school 4tU street,
and will finifh it in a month The idea of it
was by fom« Ladie* for the improve
ment of the sex—hut it is calculated for both
sexes (of any age above childhood) whereby
they will discover a new world hi nature,
concealed fioiji other* as a fine Country is
from travellers in tttc night, and as the light,
*nd she appearance of natuie is from the
blind; this will be a new f'cene of enjoyment
and delight, as that of 'eeing is to one born
blind, and will reach them tdacquire the pro
per use of fheir fatO'tie*, hs a child does that
of his limbs by learning to walk :—this wtfl
elevate them to a Philosophical region of fub
-1 me enjoyments and rat onal pUafures, as
much superior to the pleasures and> amufe
oients of others as a man is to a chi'M in sta
ture, and which will endure the shock of ad
versity, and not forfake them like others, in
affl.&ion and old age ; as the use and erd of
stll real knowledge is pvatfice and happiness,
this course will tend to promote personal hap
piness, and fit for the duties of foci< ty, one
pa«'t of it will be on the preservation of In akh
of body and feremty of mind, without wbrth
riches can afford noenjoyinent ; those who ob
(crvi'd the author's regimen,efcaped the Pefti-
Icntial d feafe in the honfe were others died
©f it. 'To begin with an introductory.lec
ture on the great benefits of Philosophy to
human life.
Feb. 19.
FOR SALE,
By MATHFW CAREY, No. 418,
Market-Street,
An Efl~ay on Slavery:
to exhibit in a new poi«u «l view,
its HFcdU on mro/s, imlujiry, and the firace of
ofie/y. Some fa£H and calculation# sit oftered
<*> prf*ve ihe labor of Jretmcn to be much more
productive than that ot Jlavts ; that countries are
rich, powerful nnd happy, in propnjtion as ihe
laboring prople enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the n< c<ffaiv contlufion, that
flsvary is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cents.
■February 1
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Coffee-Huufe of this
City :—
Rfc&PfcCTFJJJLLY informs his Friends and
ihc Public Mi general, (hat he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippcn-Strect, be
tween 'i'bird and Fourth-Stress, ai ib«* House
formerly occupied by Mr. T mmonj, which
has lately been greatly improved, and is now
tery commodious ; where he has turpifhed him.
I< It with t he heft ol LIQUORS, and will fur
nifh a TABl.li l»r Parties, with the bell provi.
fiont ihc Markets afford, ai any hour, on the
(Hon eft noticc. Ftom his long experience in
this line of bufinefi, he flatters himfelf he (liall
be able to give fatis'a&ion to all who may plcafe
to iavor him with their company.*
Philadelphia, Jar.narv 29,1794.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegantHoufe,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —a!fo a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of Jand and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicijjJty
of the city, in or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23-
03* As the Editor has repeatedly been
fvbjecled to poflage on the Letters of persons,
who have in that way applied to purchase
the Fount of Long Primer which he has
for file —those who wijh to buy those types,
are informed that the priee is twenty cents
per pound, cajh—to be paid at their delive
ry—the fount weighs about 250 ft}.
Proposals having been pabli/hed lafi
autumn, for continuing the Gazette cf the
United States as an half weekly paper, in
conjunction with a daily paper, frequent ap
plications (poflage unpaid) are made by per
sons at a dtjfance for the former —but as the
terms proposed on that oceafton were not com
ptiai with, the plan qf an half weekly paper
is reTtnquifhed.
of tie fftirifei) & fate
Stock Brokers Office^
*6, Wall-llrtet, Niw-Vomt.
TULSubfcribci minuting to confine himfeH
eim rely 10 the PURCHASE fe SALE at
stocks on commission, i..g»ic«»ci« 0 f
l< r his lervi<mo his friends and other*,- in chf
line of i Stock Broker. Tbofe ho may please
to favw him with their huftnclt, may depend
«pn» having it tr»nla£tcd will) the uiinoft ftdv
t'iy at,d diCpatch.
Orders liom Phttadelphia, BoAon, or ally
othrr part of the United States, will he ftriftly
alivnded in. LtONAKD BLh.ECKKK.
For piuuing by Suofcription,
A Work, to be entitled,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Pennsylvania State Trials,
THE want of llitfvnni information of the
state tiials of Gieai-Bntain ig ihe early
otriod.s of that government is now lamented :
Hi her 10 there hath been but one trial in the
ft<oe of Penqfylvania on impeachment ar.d
hne also it is to be icgrcttcd, that, being ncg
le&ed at the time, the public are now left wits*
out lufeciciit information on the fobjHEfc of that
tnal, 11 if however in this work deflgned to reft
rue what c?|» be collc&ed thereof frotiV fouicci
ol mdifputaple authority ( 0 ?hat the fame (hall
be pfeferved from oblivion.
Another impeachment andthe fccrtud is now
depending. An officer is charged by Ihe lale
Honfeof Reprcfrmatives, who hath for many
years been largely confided in by this fl»te, and
hath long b' en at the head of the financial de
partment ot the farfir, and it imports the citi
zens to know his conduct, and thecircumftances
which may be brrughx ioiward OB his trial.
Ih ihil work the Editor will becarrtul to
Hale the fails, as they may be-btnught forward,
and to l?y all the evidence and papers before
llir "iibltc.—With this view—
T6r following ferms are refpeSfuflf
fulmitltd to the Pnllic :
I. The Work lhall be primed in oclavo, with a
good type, on 6ne paper, and delivered to
fubfcrlbcra at tfic refjie£live places wheie the
subscriptions aic taken in, as loon as the work
sHall be compleated,
11. As no tonj.fluie caa well U made, as M
the length*of the present trnriy the fire ol the
volume cannot he ascertained al this ftmt
But the pi ice (Hall not eyreed lhat of fomcof
tlie lareft publications ;u this city.
111. Ii will contain all the preliminaries and in
cident circumflances that may occur during
the trial ot John ;Nicholfoit, Esquire, Cump
iroller-General of this commonwealth, with
the arguments ofcounlel on both fidel, together
wiih (I* articles of impeachment, and the
pleas and replications at large, the fereral re
fc.lutiqna of the two branches of the stale Le
giftdturc, refprfling ihis impeachment, and
Ihe final decision of the SENATE tefpefliug
that officer.
To which will be prefixed , as much Mean be
cnlle&ed from authentic documents, of the im
peachment, trial, ami acquital of rhe late Francis
fiopkinfon, E(quire, Judge nf the Court ol
Admiralty for the state of lK<nnMvania, during
the la\e war, never before pnhlifhed.
No money will be lequrred before the deli,
very ol the book.
Subfi nptioirs will be received by Francis
B..r!ey, No. 116, High-ftrtei; Wrigley and Ber
rrftan, No. 149, Chefnur-Ureet, and by the dl(.
ferent bookltUcrs in this city; Jacob Bailey,'
Lancaster ; Yundt and Pattonj Baltimore, and
by the Hdilor.
EDMUND HOGAN.
N. B. The price will be enhanced 10 non
fnhfcribrrs. Feb. 18. taw f
City Commissioners Office,
January jo, 1794.
TN purfuancc of a Refoivi. ot the Common
Jt Council, dated the 20th day of January,
1794, tor dividing the City into five Diftri&s,
by lines drawn East and tyeft, whereof each of
the City Commiflioners u to take the fuperin
tcndance of one of the said Diftri&s, and to be
accountable for the clcanfing, good order and
> eguiarity of the fame.
The Commiflioners have accordingly made
the following arrangement for the prefect :
Diftttd the ift. Nathan Boy*, to have the
chaige of that part of the llreets, lanes and alley*
from Ccdar<ftreet, to the uorcft fide of Spruce
ttiert.
ni&th— tf
Dijiriil the id. Hugh Roberts, from the north
fide ot Spruce-street to the north fide of Walnut
«reel.
DiJlrifl the o</. Joseph Claypooie, from the
fioc of Walnut to the south ildc of High,
street.
DiJiiiß the 4th. William Moulder, from the
north fide of High, to the noith fide of Mulberry
street
Dijlrid the $th. Nicholas Hicks, from the
north fide ot Mulbeny, to the north fide of Vine
street.
N B. The carnage way in Mark< ufircct, is
under the charge ol the Commiflioners generally,
for the prcfrnt, ihe foot-way* on the north and
south fides thereof, arc connc&ed with the ad
joining Di(tn6U rtfpcdtivcly.
Friday, February 21, 1794.
Phi t AvK l phi . Ffhmary io, i **04
PROPOSALS
Ext'aft from the Mivutrs,
JOHN MEASE, CM.
A N D
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fen no,
In all discussions where the paflions are
those who anxieufiy seek a par
ticular and favorite object, are too ready
to atfcrib'e to their opponents motives lcfif
virtuous than those by which they are
themfekes itiftilcnced. And yet, little
>efle<fti'6n is requifitC to convince us of
the folly of fu'ch condufft- Each party
berng fixed irf a certain opinion, it is as
much the right of one fide to retort the
suspicion, as it is that of the other toffu r
gelt it. Sutfh mutual recrittiinations nei-
jjhjr convince nor throw light on the fub
jeft in cunt eft. It leaved the question where
We found it. If Peter thmks we are hound
to support France in the present war, and
Robert thinks otherwise, does it follow
that Peter is bribed by the French Mint
fter, and Robert by the Britilh ? And
will such a charge, made by the one and'
retorted by ttoe other* fettle the question ?
Peter fhoi ild make good his opinion by
reasonings, which if they do not convert
Robert, would at least convince the pub
lic, that he was right, and Robert wrong :
Robert h»s ths fame right to support his
opinion and to adduce the arguments
which he desms calculated to produce
that efTeft. If they do not produce the
effect on each other, they at any rate ena
ble the publi*. to form a proper opinion.
If one citizen of a free country believes
that his nation has been insulted by a fo
reign nation ; that if is neceflary to wage
war against that nation to vindicate the
honor of his country, and that there is a
ccrtainty of fucceft: Is it not permitted
to another citizen, without being fubjeft
to the charge of furtugn influence, to
(hew that the insult has not been received,
that if it had been received, negociatioir
ftfould fifft be attempted ; that even if ne
gociation has failed, it may be more ex
i pedient for the present to endure it, than
to hazard the calamities of war. If any
citizen entertains these sentiments, is he
not bound in duty, as well as juftified, in
declaring them ? If he considers war as
the greatest of misfortunes to his country,
atod that with a littfe prudence and mode
ration, it may be avoided—would he act
the part of a good citizen, were to fuf.
fer the fear of unpopularity to swerve him
from his duty ? If those who are eager
for war, should overrate the Itrength of
this countiy, and underate that of the
enemy, is it criminal to (hew, that tho'
stronger in some refpe6ts, we are weaker
in others, that » eonteft even if fuccefsful
mull be injurious, and that the object de
sired is moie likely to be attained by peace
than war ? When Britain, in the days of
her pride, attempted to subjugate the co
lonies, thole patriots who flood forth and
exclaimed against the folly of the attempt,
who urged the strength of America for
feltdefence, and the irapotency of the
British arms and navy against us, Burke,,
Barre, Shelburne, Fox and Chatham,
were stigmatised by the war party, as ene
mies to the British glory ; we however
considered them as Britain's truest friends ;
and yet they extolled the resources of this
country, and depreciated those of their
own,
Had their counsel been purfued,Britain
'tis-probable would not haveloftwhat was
called the brightest jewel in the British
crown. But the advocates for war, by
inflaming the paflions, pride, and preju
dices of the people,, bore down all the
oppolition which was made by the virtu
ous patriots of those days, and plunged
their country into calamities, which bro't
upon the ministry the execration of that
nation.
Thus, tho' we are strong for felkde
firnce, yet if we should eitibaik in the pre-
Cent war, expose our commerce to the
fleets and cruisers which cover the ocean
—and ourfea-ports to be laid in-afhes
our revenues to be annihilated—and our
credit destroyed, or supported with diffi
culty by recourse to a land tax. The ca
[Whole No. si<Jj]
lamitJes which vCill inevitably follow,
excite the just indignation of the people
igainlt the ihrthort of them, While tfiofe
who, even at the expence isf ear pride
and national vanity,- tinavailingly endea
voured itt stem the torrenty will be. re
garded as the genuine patriots anil true
friends of fheir country.
"1 hefe ftntiments have bien drawil from
meby aperufal of the repeated abuft in one
of your city papers against those who are
advocates for peace and whom I call my
country's btft friends. I have fuffered e
nough fav or* war ; I am flow jots getting
my farm in ort{er,. and I am not disposed
to fee, m my old agey my family beggared.
A FARMER.
BOSTON, February 8.
At a meeting of the Maffacbufetti Confti-
tutional Soriety, hclcf at Boffon, on
Thurfdaythe 6th Feb.- 1794.
The fteiofutionS of (he Democratic So
ciety of Philadelphia, under the date of
the 9th of January, 1794, were read,)and'
deliberately considered, whereupon-^
Resolved uhanimoufly, That thiis So
ciety highly the fentimeat* ani
principles therein contained.
A true copy—Atteff,
Samuel He<wct,- Rec, Sec.
ALBASF?, Feb. rov
Saturday last #as i very noble day of
t ra _de in this city; on a moderate ellimatc,
it is presumed, the purchafea and faff# of
produce and merchandize exceeded 53,000
dollars. Of the article of Wheat,befweeiv
25 and 30*000 buihels were brouglVf to
tin's market—a quantity far exceeding the
receipts of any one day since the fettie
ment of this country. The price of
wheat rose durwig the <ky, from 7s. ?d.
7 s - to Bsi or the highefl: price betw«ferr
this and iff March. This last mode of
purchase i* truly novel, and must be con
vincing to the former that the merchants
of this city are too independent to form
combinations.
The proffwtt of abundance of MAPLE
SUGAR being made the present season,
is faidto be very flattering. In the wes
tern countits, this article is already be
coming oiK of their principal remittances.
In several of which it is brought to very
great perfection, particularly in Otfego,
where it receives that degree of patronage
which is due to so important a' branch of
our manufactures.
We are aflilred, that upwards of foo
hear! of cattle have been disposed of fhc
last season, by the citizens of Otfegt*
county, and driven to different markets ;
besides the beef put up for their own eon
fuiApMßs.
Forei
Foreign Intelligence.
BRUSSELS, Dec. 10.
Prince Cobourg arrived here on Satiir.-
day last, went to court in an hour after
his arrival, and in tlie evening {hewed
himfelf at the theatre, when the whole
house resounded his name in bursts- of ip
plaufe. The arch duke Charles, who was
present, was highly affected by these marks
of love for the General, and loudly joined
in the general voice.—"Phis prince, on Ri»
part, moved even to tears, rose, made 3
low bow to the arch duke, then
to the audience, exdaimed, " Long Live
the Emperor! Long live the archduke!"
The performance was delayed half an hour
by th< general joy,
The next ifeorning Re received
nial visits from the government and the
states. He exhorted the latter »t> ast with 1
all possible zeal, that the formidable ar
mies on' the frontiers might, during the
winter, be well fcpplied* He conjured"
them, in the name of the general welfare*
so jntt an end to aS difeonf with the exe
cutive and mast solemnly as
sured them, that then the Netherlands
would be perfe&ly secure from the foe.
A grand Council of War was held vet
terday, at which the Arch-Duke, tWold minister, Martha! Bender, and two o
ther generals were present ; and in the ev
ening various messengers were dispatched
to Vienna, Berlin, Ghjint, and N inpur.
This morning the Council fits again, and
the departure of Prince Cobourg for head
quarters, at Mons, is fixed for this even
ing ; his pretence being more nccefijtry
there than here.
The young Count Buckhoby, a Prufli
an officer, arrived here theday before vef
ttrdey, bringing the important news oi
the victories gained by the duke of Biunf
wiefc over the French, for three fuccelfue
da's, n-'inely, the 28th 29th and 30th.
The battle of the 30th was the mot! bloo
dy. About live in the morning, the
French, i 6,000 strong, attacked near lir
lenbach, the right wing of the Duke,
which con 11 lied of four battalions of S.ix
oiia, the Pruflian regiments of Hohenlohe
and Bmnfwick, and some Saxon cavalry,
with unextmplid fury; so that, after a
combat of four hours, and having fuffcred
great loss, the Saxons retired in disorder.
Informed of this, the duke sent General
Kalkreutb, with eight battalions of foot,
and iix fquadion of horse, to their aid.
The regiment of Hohenlohe began the
attack with the bayonet, and bovh par
ties fought furioufly till fix o'clock in the
evening. At length the left wing of the
enemy w:.ft not only repulsed, but totally
defeated by Gen. Kalkreutb, and forced,
towards midnight, to fly five leagues be
fore Lantern : 7,000 of the French re
nu»neddea4 on the field; 2,000 prisoners,
1 5 cannon, and 75 caiflons were taken.
Tlm's victory, though signal, was dearly
purchased by the allies. More than jooo
men were slaughtered ; the Saxons fuffered
greatly ; the regiments of Hohenlohe and
Brunftvick alone, had 1240 men killed ;
and a battalion of Saxons was entirely cut
to pieces: Gen. Kaikreuth was mortally
wounded, and 53 officers were killed, a
mong whom was the brave Adjutant Ge-
Ti. of the duke of Brunfwick, Major
Hirciincldi who feliby a cannon ball while
receiving orders.
Next o':y the duke attacked the French
in turn, between Lautern and Landftuhl,
and after a dreadful carnage, the French
again retired wi(h the loss of 3000 killed,
and as many wounded and taken. Among
the former, whert the two French Gener-
I'iaheru and Horft. The loss of the
Pi.ulw.it, who puriued with 16 squadron
of boric, as far as Saarbruck, amounted
to 18co lulled, 2000 K'ounded, anAfome
hundreds mifling or taken.
I havejoft received a letter ftom Hague
naci, dated the 3d instant, containing an
account of the dreadful and unexampled
carnage, which- has taken place iince the
2&lli, on She Rhine. The French it is
afii roed, have loft ir> the different actions,
nearly IS,0:0 men killed, as many wound
ed, and 4000 taken prisoners. The loss
of the combined troops was little less, and
m v e rtainiy b« said to amount to 16,000
m< ii killed, and wi undid. Among the
former 15S officers, Saxon, Prussian, and
Imperial, and 2\l wpunded, three of
whom vvu e generals. It further affirms,
that 011 tin- iirft of this month the French
attacked s'l the Au'irian ports,from Wan
gcntui to Hngiienau, Brumpt and Hoch
iclden ; that the Impciialifts had vigorouf
lv rcpulfed them ; that they returned to
the attack next day, hut that after a most
bloot:y aftiou, they were again driven al
inoft under the walls of Skrafbourgh. The
A uitrian General count Keglevitch, by
birth a Hungarian, and 13 other officers
were killed. Our loss in these two acti
ons amounts to 1500 men killed, and a
bout a» many wounded. The loss of the
F. encli is eftimatedby Gen. Wurmfer, at
5000 killed wounded and taken.
Prince Cobourg, on reading the ac
count of these (laughters, said to his roy
al highnefi, " our victories are- deatly
purchaicd, my Lord, but these battles
were inevitable to preserve the positions
necefi'ary for the combined army during
the winter."
Tlu* 2 5;OCO men arrived ill Francoiiia,
that wive to have joined the army of the
Netherlands, have received orders to join
that of the Rhine, which cannot but be
dreadfully (hattered ; 16,c0e Pruflians al
t) have within these few days marched
from Wefel to Treves, in order to rein,
foicethc duke of Brunfwick. The duke
de Bourbon, who commanded the corps
of emigrants in the a&ion of the 2d near
Hnguenau, was wounded in the arm, and
Geu. Wurn fes exposed himfelffo far,that
lie was a'n-oft surrounded by a fqiwdron
of theei emy, but was afterwards rt-litv.
Ed by the hussars of Erdody.
Yesterday after dinner, Prince Cobourg
visited the hospitals of Brulfels, and was
not only diflatisfied, but so very angry,
that he put Captain Schoenfeld, who hau
the dirc&ion of one in which was 1800
of the wounded, uudcr arrest, with three
other officers. He lntlaiitly ordered the
Surgeon Majors to present him a plan
within £4 hours, for the better treatment
of these poor vittims, and exhorted the
flati s to pay attention to the dreadful mi
sery of these brave defenders of their
count!y. The negligence in the hospitals
is so great, that it (hocks humanity ; 50
or lixtv die daily for want of proper care
—the wounded are Icarcely drelied once
a week. They lie in garrets and in the
paflages, on a little straw, covered with
rags. In a word, their iituation is dread
ful.
Ycftercl.lv a convoy of French prison
ers all wounded, arrived here, and were
thi& morning transported to Louvain.—
The)- were followed by another of thirty
five waggon load of wounded Auftrian6,
coming from before Givet, where the gar
rison of that fortrefs, 2000 ttrong, made
a faily on the 3d, and attacked the right
wing of Gen. Beaulieu, but after an ac
tion of 4 hours, were driven with consi
derable loss under the walis of the fort
refi.
The Wurmfer huffart and the Carne
ville legion performed wonders here, and
bro't off sixty prisoners. We had sixty
killed, and 120 wounded, all light troops.
I am this moment told that the depar
ture of Prince Cobourg is deferred, in
order to wait for thfc arrival of his royal
highnefsthe duke of York, and General
Beaulieu, who are expected to-morrow,to
be present at a third conference relative to
operations which they are to undertake
during the winter.
Imperial Head-Quarters at Haguenau,
December 1.
This day the French gave us a moll fu
rious battle ; and the attacks were every
where most vigorously conductrd.
The conflict lalted from day-break till
late at night, when the enemy were ulti
mately turned and repulsed.
Dec. 2—B o'clock in the evening.
Yesterday and this day, bloody actions
havebeen fought. The patriots did all
they could to break through, but they
were obliged to retreat with the loss of 7
pieces of cannon. General Count Kegle
vich was caiTied off by a cannon ball, and
the duke of Bourbon received a wound in
his hand with the stroke of a sabre.
VIENNA, Nov. 23,
The report which prevailed, that the
Prussians were going to take up their
winter-quarters in the countries of Anf
pach and Bareuth, is void of foundation,
as they will, 011 the contrary, remain with
our army on the Rhine, which will now
confill of 54,000 men.
The famous Dr. Mefmer has been ar
retted, and his papers sealed tip ; it is fup
pofcd he held a ccrrefpondence with the
Jacobins.
MANHEIM, Nov. 28.
All the Dutchy of Deux-Ponts is clear
ed of the French.
PARIS, November 28,
It was generally imagined that Madame
du Barry was arretted for the purpose of
making her give an account of her fortune,
but some papers are said to be found in
her pofleffion relative to a plot to destroy
the Republic, together with letters from
a number of emigrants whom (he sup
ports. These papers have been sent to
the revolutionary tribunal, and (lie will
(hortly be tried.
December 11
The number of the prisoners who are
now confined in the Luxembourg, is much
greater than the public Journals have hi
therto announced.
l The Duchess of Orleans occupies an
apartment close to that in which Bazire
and Chabot are (hut up. Among the
reft of the prisoners have been remarked
Laborde the Financier, Nicola, the Play
er, Prince Charles of Hesse, La Ferte,
Levy Mirepoix, a great number of Gene
rals, and the old Marlhal de Mouchy and
his wife.
Bazire and Chabot are alone in one
aparment; the reft of the rooms contain
ten or twelve prisoners each. Every pri
soner has his hammock or fling-bed, and
a small mattrafs, in comparison no bigger
than a puf&d pan-cake !
The Rich take cire of the poor ; they
all fraternize ; but every prisoner (hunt
and flies from him who was called under
the ancient government, His Serene High
ness Prince Charles of Hefle.
Letters from Angers mention, that
L'Efcure, one of the chiefs of the Roy
alists, died at Fougeres of his wounds.
His body has been embalmed, and is drawn
by (lately horses, richly caparisoned, after
the Royal Catholic Army.
LONDON, Dec. 14.
We have received a letter from an of
ficer serving in the expedition under the
Earl of Morai, from Guernsey, dated
the gth inft. as follows:
" The Royalists are on the coast. We
(hall depart immediately to join them. I
have not time to give you further parti-
culars.
We have received certain information,
that since the battles between the Duke
of Brunfwick and the French in Deux
Ponts, Gen. Wurmfer has defeated the
Republican troops in three fuccefiive en
gagements, and has put the whole French
army in Alsace to the rout.
The last accounts from Paris are parti
larly interelling. In the fittings of the
Jacobin Club of the 28th of November,
Barrere, the very organ of the commit
tee of public fafety, was denounced by
Balhedasas a man in whom no dependence
could be placed He represented him as
a man who only had his own interest at
heart; he had purchased property to the
amount of 600,000 livres. This is sus
picious. He was a friend of BrilTot, but
now appears among the supporters of the
Mountain ; for his maxim is always to be
of the flrongeft party. When he had
finifhed, Roberfpierre attempted the de
fence of Barrere, but found the current
of the opinions of the Club too ftrorig
against his friend, and very wifely (to es
cape a similar disgrace) declared he would
desist from defending Barrere, and defend
no one, left he should be involved in their
fate. The Club determined that Bar
rere's conduit should some future day be
taken into consideration.
Roberfpierre, in the course of the fit
ting, read a letter to BrifTot from one of
his illuttrious friends in London, in which
he laments his being arrested, and threa
tens Danton, Roberfpierre, and others,
in ca/e they persecute BrifTot, that he
will write to the bankers of Genoa and
Amsterdam, and flop the promised loan
of 17 millions which he had obtained for
them. Roberfpierre also read another let
ter from the French Princes to himfelf,
exprefiing their approbation of his con
duct, and their knowledge of his opinion
refpedling the restoration of Monarchy,
and requesting him to hold himfelf in rea
diness to deliver the city of Paris to the
Prince de Cobourg when he should reach
the vicinity of that place. However, Ro
berfpierre, assured the club, that these
letters were wrote in Paris by the enemies
of the Republic, and that he would take
the greateil care to unravel the plot, and
bring the guilty to justice.
The wife of Rabaud St. Etienne, late
ly arretted, in a fit of despair threw her
felf into a well and was drowned.
A letter from Prefburg, dated Nov. 7,
fays, " The Turkish AmbafTador sent by
the Grand Signior to the Court of Lon
don is ah-eady armed at Hermanftadt in
Transylvania."
On Monday last arrived at Plymouth,
in the Severn (hip of war, Major-Gene
ral Clarke, Lieutenant-Governor of Que
bec.
Extract of a letter from Plymouth-Dock,
December 9.
" Came in the Rattler Cutter, Lieute
nant Winn, tender to Lord Howe's fleet;
but can give no account of the fleet, as
(he parted them ten days Cnce.
" 11 th. Arrived the Cleopatra of Phi
ladelphia, from Hambro' with hemp and
bale goods, taken by a French man-of
war of 80 guns, and re-taken yellerday
about 20 leagues fouth-wcfl of Scilly, by
the Culloden, Sir Thomas Rich, Bart.
Commander, as (he was fleering for Brest.
The Culloden has gone in quell of the
French man-of-war. There is something
mysterious in the French capturing this
{hip, as she was bound to Philadelphia.—
They mult be in want of these goods—or
that (he is a French-American—or that
they have made war against the whole
world, and have now boldly come forth
to declare it."
At length something in the (hape of a
regular communication from Lord Howe
ha»b«ii received. The Orestes floopof war
it arrived at Plymouth, which lift the
Grand Elect off Scilly on the 6th instant.
by this (hip we learn, that the French
tieet, seen by Lord Howe on the 18th
ult. escaped during that night, ar.d has
not been lince seen by his Lordlhip.
Letters received from Nantz, dated the
27th of O&ober, confirm the taking of
the iflandof Noirmontier (near the mouth
of the Loire) by the rovahltsof La Ven
dee. Thus they hope to receive succours
from Englaud.
The lame letters mention, that the co
lumn of Royalilts, which palled the Loire
at Varade, carried off its artillery, ammu
nition, and baggage, without the imallelt
loss, and that they intended to go lrom
Laval towards Lower Bretagne and St.
Malo, where a formidable party waits on
ly for their appearance to declare them
selves.
Twelve thonfand republicans, coming
from La Vandee, have palled the bridges
for Nantz on their way to Rennes, to give
the royaKfts battle.
The earl of Yarmouth, in luslaft dil
patch, informs us, that on the 25th ult,
the left wing of the French were com
pletely routed ; and that the next day but
one the Auitrians were attacked on every
fide.
If the Immediate consequence of com
pletely routing the French be a general at
tack on 1 victorious army, it would be
much w policy to leave them alone.
November 30.
By It -rs from an officer at Toulon
we learn, ha' Gen. O'Hara carried with
him froir. Gil 'tar, one thousand troojia.
The force at ,'oulon was eighteen thou
sand men on the ill inft. and great rein
forcements were d i]y expected from the
different allied powers.
Lord Mulgrave, before lie was super
seded in the chief command at Toulon,
sent a flag of truce to Gen. La Poype,
refpefting the exchange or a Britifli offi
cer that had been taken prisoner. The
officer who went was blindfolded at the
distance of four miles from the French
head-quarters. Having reached them he
was conducted into a house, and to'id that
he would soon fee the General. Shortly
after he was conducted to Ger.. La Poype,
who behaved to him with great politencis;
but there were present fix Commifiioncrs
from the National Convention, who were
ill-looking, vulgar, and rude in their man
ners. The General very politely made
tea in the evening for the Britifli officer ;
but the Commissioners would not leave
Them alone for one moment, doubtful of
the principles of their General, because he
displayed the courtesy of a gentleman.
When the officer came away, La Poype
mounted him on one of hrs belt horses ;
and he was escorted back to the French
advanced posts blindfolded as before.
ExtraA of a letter from Deux-Ponts,
November 17,
" For some days pall a movement has
been remarkedamong the Pruflians,which
made lis fufpe&fome fcciet expedition.—
A great number of scaling-ladders, ropts
iron levers, hatchets and axes, &c. were
bro't to this city and its environs. Lad
night the secret was unravelled : we were
awakened by a dreadful cannonade, which
lasted from one o'clock till Rear fix in the
morning. About 9it was reported that
the Pruflians had carried Bitfche by al
fault. The cannonade recommenccd to
wards noon, increased constantly, and
seemed to draw nearer. We then began
to doubt the truth of the report, especi
ally when we saw a great number of pro
pie arrive at the fame time, who nad fled
from the environs of the river Blies. At
lad we were informed, that the Prufliaiis
had certainly attempted to take Bitfche
by storm, but that they had not succeed
ed. This roused the courage of the
French, who immediately attacked the
corps of Pruflians near Bliefcalllc ; but,
by a movement of the duke of Brunfwick
they are in danger of being entirely cut
off."
Extract of a letter from Paris Nov. 20.
" To the heads of the ai cufation agaiuft
Manuel, before mentioned, the following
may be added :
" That he plotted the fatal bufinefo of
the 2d and 3d of September with Petion;
that he encouraged the assassins ; that with
Petion he projected the robbery of the
jewel office ; that he wiflurd for a copy of
the resolutions relative to the late king,
and his confinement in the Temple, for
the sole purpose of transmitting the fame to
the king of Prussia whiift he was in Cham
pagne, that he endeavored to obtain for the
President of the Convention (whiift Petion
wan in the chair) the Cattle of theThmlleries for his residence, a guard of honor
to attend him, and the title of President
of France given him ; that when Capet
was condemned he quitted the Convention
that he might not be prelent at the tranf
ailion ; and' that he always treated the
Mountain as if they were villains and A
rarehilte, and in eonfequence resigned his
feat in the Convention,
" In the feilions of the Convention of
the 21 ft inft. it was decreed, that a ilone
Ihould be placed at the entrance of every
burying groand, with this infeription,
" Here it the Abode of Peace aad Eternal
Sleep.".
PHILADELPHIA,
FfiERtJARY 2 1.-
This morning anchored at Gloucester
point, seven fail of inward bound veflels,
among which, ire two fr.ips.
ExtraS of a letter from Providence, Fe-
Iruary 10, J 794.
" At this distance from the great head
of the nation, we can only enquire what
Congress are about ? W hat news do they
believe—York is taken by this time we
prcfume. Congress so believed it, that
"they coulu_ not kee_p in their fitting."
What fay the wit 3 > '1 hose wicked wit?of
Connecticut—they may laugh—but really
'tis no laughing matter. However, Con
gress are not camels yet, nor is the floor
too hot for them, whatever it may be—
Warm words we may fairly expbft—the
views of parties appear to be so direftfy
opposite, and not feeing all grounded on a
love of peace, or an enquiry after what is
best, we may not expect to fee them Ta
tisued -vith a decision.
" At this diftanee the main object en
one fide seems to Be to get us into a hobble,
and then unhorse the present adminiltra
tion and jump in thcmfelves.
" We hear daily complaints that Con
gress art a great body of wife men, aflcm
bled to get money and do nothing. The
people at large here have no conception
that they can.spend two months in talking
without coming to a vote. The general
assembly of this state, never fit more than
8 week at a session—and if they had the
affairs of the universe to regulate, they
would dp it in tliat time. If right, well-—
if not, they can alter it next time. With
this habit of dispatch, it can hardly be ex
pected that we (hould wait quietly two
months to hear that Conjrrefs had begun.
They have made one aft—-but even this
is found fault with. It is said we are like
the Frenchman, who in a scrabble swore
he would have another hem to his ruffle,
and in the very fcrabbTe loft his ftiivt.—
When the Algerines, and others who ast
like them, have got our veliels, to comfort
us, we are told we (hall hereafter wear two
more stripes upon them. The distress of
parents and others (and there are many of
them here) who have friends in reach of
the Algerines, is not to be described. I
{hall only fay they are very impatient for
spirited and effectual meafuresr
" The body of the people think the
wheels move (lowly. They are not fully
fenlible of the weight they carry—and
they have but little to talk about. Have
you no spare tubs to th ow out, to keep
our fpeciilative politicians at bay : Can't
you propose to alter the Constitution :—
Suppose an amendment was to be made
relating to the poor—thatCongrefs Ihould
have power to make a general law of fet
tlenu nts. It Would set us all a talking,
and probably would be agreed to—lt cer
tainly would be right.
" We want Congress (hould foretell
enaftly the day when, the wars in Europe
will end—Whether we (hall be hurt by
them, or not—What fort of a govern
ment Fiance will establish—When Great-
Britain will ftcp payment, and the king
flee to America for fafety—What fort of
treaties the United States will form with
all the world—and when their glory will
so dazzle the benighted inhabitants of the
eastern hemifpheie, that they will look to
them for light in the political world, as
they 00 to the meridian fun for light in
the natural world ?"
SENATE of the Commonmahh of Perm
' ' ' _ 17 t
- - t J - '•/
fjkcnin.—February 19th 1794.
The trial of John Nicholfon, Esq.
Comptroller General of the (late, came
on this day ih the Senate Chamber, and
was podponed until the 26th instant, con
fbrm.-thly to the request of the Attor
ney General, and of Mr. Lewis, one of
tltt council for Mr. Nicholfon..
THEATRICALS.
Wednefijaj evening the Tragedy of
ISABELLA, wit!) the Opera of RO
SINA, were afiec' t the Ne-j) Theatre
with universal applaiife—and ass. rd'ed ano
ther occasion of pair the warn' .ll enco
miums on the judgment and zeal displayed
by the Manager during his transatlantic
It is proper to commend, dnly
when merit is difplaved; and we hazard
nothing in awarding the tribute of praise
on the perform ant t: of this evening.
Do we fay too much, by suggesting
that the Manner himfelf is improved in
his theatric career ? Mrs. Whitlock in Isa
bella, was the prototype of Mrs. Siddons
—thejufteft ideas of tragic powers were
realized in the part affigncd to Mrs.
IVhitlocl. We saw with pleasure Mr.
IVh'ulock in the chara&ev of Count Bald
win—his merits as an actor have been so
long eitablilhed, that no other praise need
be added, than the fatisfa&ion felt on his
re-appearance as a volunteer of the sock
and bilfk iit. Mr. Fennell has long been
known to fame—he (lands unrivalled in
his cad of tragic characters—when feea
in Othello, which we hope will be ere long,
he will (hew what the author meant.—
Mr. Mor<ton is a native of this country—
we view with fitisfaftion so promifmg- a
bud of liflng merit in the new world.
We have already spoken of the other
charafters—occaficnally we (hall hazard a
hint. ' not meaning to offend."
The frequent hallooing of the gentle
men who inhabit that part y'clept the
Paradife—(hews not mirth, but betrays
folly—be charitable good fentlemen —
they only are deaf who cannot hear.
OBSERVER—No. I.
MR. FENNO,
I have been an attentive observer at the
New Theatre, and, as an American, I can
not withhold an honest exprefiionof thanks
to the Managers for their exertions nndtajle,
in giving us a Theatre, equal, in point of
accommodation and elegance, to mod, and
i fecund, to very few in Europe.
The Orchestra, when compared with
those that are trans-atlantic, will not fufFer
by the comparison in any respect, and in
accuracy of lime, may be said to Hand un
rivalled. . - . . o
Every American of science and tafle,
mult do violence to the better feelings of
his heart, in fupprefling his applause for
each person who has yet appeared on the
stage. _
Americans have not been witnefles of
Tragedy, until Mrs. Whitlock peifonified
Tragedy itfelf, in the character of Isa
bella : —Tor, as to the performers, we
have heretofore seen in this country, it
may be laid—
A fubftituie ftiines hiigh*K' as a King,
'• Until <i Kmg he ihen his ft.'te
" Empties lifeU, a$ rimh an inland brook
u lato ihe mam <>t waters."
The performance of the Epithalamium
in the ?d ast of the Tragedy, was a spe
cimen of great judgment in the disposi
tion of the parts, and the execution was
prodigious.—We fecmed to drop " d'u
" muddy •oeflure of decay" and hear the
nuific of the Spheres—
" Wl'ich in ihcii motions likt the Angels sung,
• 4 Stiil quiring to the young ey'd Cherubim*."
Mr. Darly'j musical powers, are allo
nifliingly great.
Mr. Fennell in Tragedy, MelTis. IVig
nell, Francis and Green, Mrs. IVarrel and
Mrs. Brondhurjl, in Comic and Musical
parts, deserve particular encomiums.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in
Bolton, to his friend in this city, dated
■January 25th, 1794.
" There has lately been erected in this
place, a Club which calls itfelf the " Con-
Ititutional and are denominated
by others, the " Jacobin Club." They
hare publiihed their Articles, which are
in (hort hand, a declaration of their right
and their intention, to infpeft the condu£fc
of the Federal Government, and kick as
much dull in its eyes as possible. It is
composed of members united by no other
bond than dilcontent, and are pricked on
the right fide, by the (harp spur of po
verty, or on the left, by the crooked spur
of ambition. It is a great political Brothel
where hacknied Bawds corrupt ignorant
virtue, and young fir.ners are con firmed by
hardened offenders. The unavoidable dis
tempers of the place are as yet confined
to its noAurnal visitants, but let " this
fire in the blood" once become universal,
and its contagion will become more dan
gcrous than tlic Philadelphia fever, anrf
occasion more Phlebotomy, a million drops
for one, than if every inhabitant ef that
city had been a patient of Dr. Rush. Not
a man of note, or of chara&cr, his, I be
lieve joined it as yet, except one or two
hair-brained politicians, to whom this is
the dernier resort for fame. They have
prevailed on William Cooper, an old ho
nest whig of '75, the nioft refpe&able
member of their body, to sign as President
pro tem; but the well meaning whig is
antiquated. The faculty for opposition
is the only power that has not quitted
him ; and this he has so long domesticated,
that he will turn it out of doors, but with
his dying breath. Indeed this dcfcription
may serve as a general chaiadleriftic of all
these associates. The dupes of the Society
are much more numerous than its villains.
Whatever temporary trouble it may occa
sion the Federalists, I think it can do but
little hurt. The people of America are
too enlightened to be misled, and too
wary to be surprized. They realize too
strongly the perfection of their present
freedom ; and their sagacity will be as
secure a guard against the craft, as theii
resolution was against the foree of its ene
mies. lam told there is a similar inttitu
tion in Philadelphia—Give us its outlines.
Are you a member ? &c. &c.
Two French gentlemen arrived in town
this day, from Baltimore—one of whom,
we hear, is Mr. Fauchet, the new Mi
nister. They waited on the Secretary
of State about one o'clock.
The contested election of Mr. Gallatin
was under consideration in the Senate of
the United States yesterday and this day.
Further proceeding in the business was
postponed till to-morrow.
We hear that a vessel loaded by the
French government with 300 pipes of
brandy is arrived at New-York.
A correspondent enquires whether the
losses sustained by the depredations of the
Algerines and piratical privateers, will a
mount to so much as that our Merchants
are exposed to in consequence of the em
bargo on 150 fail of Ameriean vessels in
the ports of France ?
CONGRESS-
House of Reprefentativei.
Thursday, Feb. 20.
In committee of the whole on the ffate
of the Union—Mr. Trumbull in the
chair.
The Naval Armament of the United
States, being under consideration, a mo
tion was made by Mr. Murray, to strike
out " Salt " and the duty intended to be
laid on it,- as one of the items reported
by the feleft committee as an object for
taxation to complete the armament.
Whereupon a debate commenced, which
continued nearly to the hour of adjourn
ment —when the question was put, and
63 members rose in support of the mo
tion.
The committee proceeded thro' the
discussion of the report —they then rose
and reported sundry amendments to the
house—which were laid on the table.
Adjourned.
Friday, Feb. 21, 1794,
Several petitions were read and referred
—among which was a petition from sun
dry persons holders of the bills called
New Emiflion money—praying that those
bills maybe provided for on (imilar princi
ples with the other evidences of the pub
lic debt already funded—Referred to the
Secretary of the Treasury.
The house then took into confederation
the report of the committee of the whole
relative to the naval armament.
The firft resolution being read, which
states the naval force neceflary for the pro
tection of the commerce of the United
States against the Algerine cruizers ; On
thequeftion for agreeing to this part of
the report, the ayes and noes were called
and ate as follows:
AYES.
Meflrs. Ames, Armstrong, Beatty,
Boudinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourn, Cadwal
lader, Cobb, Coffin, Coit, Dent, Dexter,
Dayton, FitzfimonSjFofter, Gilbert, Glen,
Goodhue, Gordon, Griffin, Hartley, Hill
houfe, Hindman, Holten, Kittera, Lati
mer, Lee, Malbone, Murray, Scott, Sedg
wick, S. Smith, W. Smith, Sprigg,
Swift, Talbot, Thatcher, Tracy, Trum
bull, Van Alen,Ward,,Watts, Winn—43.
NOES.
Mr firs'. Bally, Baldwin, Blount, Came*/
Christie, Claiborne, Coles, Dawfon, Dear
born, Findley, Giles, Gillefpie, Oilman,
Greenup, Gregg,Grove,
Hunter, Locke, Lyihan, Macon, Madi
son, M'Dowell, Mebane, Montgomery,
Moore, Niles, Nevil, New, Page, Pickens,
Preston, Rutherford, Sherbourne, Smilie,
Triad well, Venable, Walker, Wingate,
Winfton— 4l.
The other resolutions providing the
ways and means, were severally read and
agreed to, and the lej ort was then r»fer
red to the original committee to prepare
and bring in a bill.
A report from the Secretary of war
was read, relative to the operation of the
law refpefting invalid pensioners.
In committee of the whole on the ap
propriation bill, —Mr. Trumbull in the
chair.
The fe&ion whii R authorizes the Pre
sident of the United States to anticipate
the revenue to the amount of by
loan was read.
This fc&ion after some debate was ne
gatived.
The committee finiihed the difcuflion
of the residue of the bill—which was re
ported to the House—the amendments:
were agreed to, and the bill ordered to be
engrailed for a third reading on Monday
next.
A committee was then appointed to en
quire into the state of the treasury, and to"
report on the expediency of a loan.
Adjourned till Monday.
NEW THEATRE,
THIS EVENING, Feß. 21,
Will be performed, a Comedy, called
The Dramatic
Or, STOP HIM WHO CAN.
Lord Scratch, Mr. Bates.
Neville, Mr. Cleveland.
Floriville, Mr. Morcton.
Willoughby, Mr. Green.
Ennui, Mr. Finch.
Peter, Mr. Francis.
Vapid (with the Epilogue) Mr. Chalmers
Miss Courtney, Mrs. Francis.'
Lady Waitfart, Mrs. Shaw.
Letty, Mrs. Rowfon.
Marianne, Mrs. Marfljall.
End of the Comedy a DANCE, coiled the
HIGHLAND FROLIC.
To which will be added, a Comic Opsjla?
called the
Flitch of Bacon,
OR, DUNMOW PRIORY.
Justice Bembow, Mr. Warrell
Major Bembow, Mr. Harwood.
Capt. Greville, Mr. Marshall.
Capt. Wilson, Mr. Darley.
Tipple, Mr. Francis.
Eliza y Miss Broadburft-
Places in the Boxes to be taken at ?fie Box-*
Office of the Theatre, at any hour from nine
in the morning till three o'clock in the after
noon, on the day of performance. Tickets
to be had at the office near the Theatre, at
the corner of Sixth-fcreet, and at Carr & Co's
Musical Repository, No. 122, Market-street.
The Doors will be opened at 5 o'clock,
and the performances begin at 6 o'clock pre
cisely.
Box hs, oncdotlar—PlT7, three quarters
of a dollar —and Gallery, half a dollar.
No places can be let in the fide boxes for a
less number than eight, nor any places re
tained after the firft a&.
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON the 31ft of lift monih, the fubferiber ad
drrffed a letter to Mclfrs. Thomas Pcarjall
££ Son, merchants in New-York, and mclofed
therein a bank note, No. 445, for twenty dol
lars ; one ditto, No. 151, lor thirty dollars (
and one ditto, N©. 3,866, for tweiuy dollars.
—He also add re fled a letter to Mr. G iHert
Saltonjlall, merchant in New-Yor'<, inclosing a
bank bill, No. 148, for fifty dollars, indorsed
on the back thereof in thefr words*—" Pa) the
within to Mr. Gilbert SeltovJlatt—Ebcn. Hunting
ton.''—He also addrcffccL a letter to Mc.Tcs. H hilt
& War del I, merchants in New-York, and inclo
sed a bank bill for ted dollars, and a draft in fa
vor of said White & Wardell, which letters were
put in the Poll-Office on said 31ft January, to
be forwarded to New-Yoik : But by letters re
ceived fVom the Gentlemen to whom they were
severally addrelfed, the money was robbed
from each letter before delivery.
The Public are requeued to endeavor a de
te&ion of the Villains who committed the above
tobbery. The bill indor/ed, I\hink was a York
bank bill, and some others, one or more was
of the Uniied States bank, remitted at Philadel
phia. Any person discovering the Thief, and
returning ihc Money, shall be entitled to fifty
dollars reward.
EBEN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, 14th Feb. 3w3ttwr
Vlvat Rtfpublica.JAMES LEACH,
Respectfully inform* hi* friends »nd
(He public, That from the encouragement
he ha» received, from fevcral tefpe&able Gentle*
irten, he is induced once more, to embark in ihe
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his feiviees to
all 'hose Gentlemen, who rsn place confidence
in him } and be aflures thole who employ him,
thai their confidence ftiall not he mitplaccd »
but it shall he his couftant endeavor, to pay the
ftnlMl attention to their heft intercft, in all ne
gociations whatever. He has taken 'he Chamber,
in State-Street, over Mr. David 7 own fend, Watch
M-ke.'s Shop. Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of all kinds, are boupht and fold ; and
wheie Com mi (lion Bufinefc of all kinds, will be
tranf-i&ed on reafonablc terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be conftamly expofod lor Ule, on
confmiffion.
* # * Cash paid for Salem, Piovidence, and
Portlinouih BILIS.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New- York, has any Pvfinefs to trail faff at Bojlov,
in Paper Negotiations, he ufill be happy t» be em
ployed on commi/fion.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nth day of April next,
at the house of John Thomson, in Perth-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY,
THE Lotconiains eleven acrcs, on which is
an oichard of giaftrd apple trees, a well of
excellen« water, a large ftnnc c ftcrn, and a very
commodious liable and coach-house, and a great
quantity of the boft building ftoncs in the walls
of the house, which was formerly built for the
fefidence of the Governors of New-Jirfcy. The
fituition of this Lot is so well known *or its
healthiness and beautiful profpeCl of the Ramon
river to the wetl of the bav, 4nd Sandy-Hook to
the eiift, that a further description isunneccffiry.
The conditions of sale will be, one third of the
purchase money to be paid on the fit ft day of
May next, when a good and fufficient Deed will
be piven to the puichafer, by Waltir Ru
therfurd, Esq. Picfident of the Hoard of
Proprietors of the Eastern Divifioii of N'w-
Jeifcv, anfl the remaining two thirds fatisfado*
rily fccuied in equal annual pavmcnis.
By order of (he Boaifl,
JAMES PARKER, Rafter.
Perth'Amboy, February 5, 1794. 2.iw2in
War Department.
January 30th 1794.
INFORMATION is. hereby given to ell the
military invalids of the United Staler,that the
fu-ms to which they are entitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
On Ihe ,sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the CoinmifTioneis of the Loans
within the dates refpe&ivcly, under the usual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and adininiflretors
mud be accompanied with legal evidence of
their rcfp*£Uve offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pension thev may claim.
By conunano of the Prcfid-.nt
of the Un ; ted $»ate*,
H. KNOX,
Secretary oj IVar.
The printers in the refpe&ive ftatc* are
requcfted t o pubHfh the above in their newfpa<
perstor the space ot two months.
January 30
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. RICE, No. 50, Market-street,
also, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Market-fteeei,
(Price, bound, 6/5 2 )
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story.
TO frHICH IS ADDED,
The Indian Cottage
From the French of M. dt St. Pierre.
14 IHt above Stories have been lately pub
liftied, amorigfl the works of a very different
nature, by M. de St. Pierre, who resided in the
country which it describes, and was well ac
quainted with the piiucipal faffs. Its orna
ments are the Landscape—the Climate—and
the natural history of the Torrid Zone, obser
ved with the eye of Taftc, and delineated with
(he eye of Philosophical knowledge. It is a
Paftora', of which the fable and the machine
iy may be said to be eqnally real. To these are
ad«ied, the pure vein of Moral Inftrudfion, and
the Sublime Ideas of M. deSt. Pierre."
Feb. 1
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SAL S BY
M. Carey, No. i x B,High-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common SAnnas and
Subjects, -which art full of Common
Sense, tlx hejl ftnfe in the world.
THIS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well asio all clafles of people, merchants, me.
chaiitcs and farmer*. Such a > epilation has this
wmk acquired, that it has paflcd thro three im
prcflions in ihe eastern dates, and many houle
holders deem it so ufeful as tn pur chafe a copy
for every adult io ihcii families.——Pr ic ■ as.
February 4. «Ui
NORRIS-COURT,
Back of the New Library, between Cbefnat
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
taiiying on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
for doors or window-ftiutters,dont in the most
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
Jult Imported,
From London, Dublin and Glasgqit,
And now opening for iale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jlrccty
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following:
NEW Annual Register for 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester focicty, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Difney*s lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty,a collection of elTays
Varieof Pvuffia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
Ruflell's ancient and modern Europe
T-angbomt's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extra&s of natural history
Saugnier and Bt iflon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels ill Spain
TafTo's Jerusalem delivered
Sinellte's translation of Button
Berwick's hiftoi y of quadrupeds
Bnffon abridged
History of birds
Philips'* history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in £ vols.
Curiosities of literature, $ vote.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of tire Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
linlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on inal»nry
Lavater on physiognomy. abridged
Zimmerman's Purvey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kisses of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Travels
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adatr's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immaterialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitas
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vo^St
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's (ketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Beniguus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of fofitude
Smith's theory of moral (entimentf
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. & Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
dam
man
Wallit on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark, Ruflia,Poland, &rc.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes ou the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatifc on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the vjfeera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digeftibn
Withering on the so* glove
Lind on the diseases of heaft
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's diflertations
London pra«slice of physic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
Pe ale's Museum,
HAS Lately received a number of article* j
among which are the following : That
remarkable bird called the Cut-water, or fcif
ars-bill; The Avofctte, commonly called the
Shoe-maker, because ot its bill resembling a
crooked awl—The Long-leg?, commonly call
ed the Black-bet, having perhaps the longed legs,
in proportion to the fire of the bird, of any of
(he feathered tribe—The Storm-finch, common
ly called mother Cary's chicken—The Sea
fwallow, and various Gulls ; besides a variety
oi Cranes, Curlews, Snipes, Scc.
The scull of a Whale and one of its Vertebres.
An Indian hatchct made of chrylial : It is
curious that those uninformed wild people, hav
ing very little knowledge of the arts, and being
ignorant even ol the existence of iron and steel,
should be able to form such hard fubftauces in
to fanciful forms as this, and othir Indian ma
nuta&ure* now in the Museum.
A lignified Quince : The specimen (hews
what a remarkable effect a dry warm situation
has on fruit. It is now about 8 years since it
was gathered ; and it was a real quince, now be
come wood, at least in appearance.
Presented by Mrs. Manfon of Charleftown,
S. C.—a tool used by the Oiaheitans in making
their bark cloth, by pounding the bark on this
instrument of wood, »t produces the ribs which
resemble threads : the perfectly straight and
equal lines made in this extreme hard wood, by
men without the use of iron,are curious & won
derful.
Alio, a rope made of grass, part of the rigg
ing of a veflTel of Kamfkatka.
Presented by Dr. Hall, of Lewis-town, a Squib
in fpiriu : when this fifh was found, a number
of Hones were appended to firings or ligaments
that projected from the front of its head,which
occasioned a conjecture, as it is not furnilhed
with fufificient fins to rcfift the violence of the
tide and currents, that it fattened with these li
gaments on whatever it found at the bottom ; so
that the (tones answered the purpofeof anchors
and the ligaments of a glutinous sticky nature,
that of cables. Some of the ltones arc in the
fame phial.
A collection of Minerals and other Foflils
a*x now difplayc-d in drawers covered with glass
and in a mode which will fceure them from de
rangement. To each fpecimcn are affixed refe
rences to a book of c>efcviptions. This manage
ment of specimens of the Foflil kingdom,- ren
ders this part of the Mufcum very convenient
and fatisfa£tory,and great attention will be paid
to the fvflcmatical order of them, and in mak
ing the neceflary eflays of each : Alio in giving
in a concise manner, the various uses they are
applied to ; thereby rendering them the more
intercftiug to the public.
A Living Elk, of 2 years old, is just receiv
ed. By the account which monf. Button gives
of the Elk, it appears that he was not acquaint"
ed with this American animal; he particularly
omits all notice of the curious apertures adjoin
ing the eyes of this Elk.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying,
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
Ihorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeysand chaiis, and liarnefs
of every description, in the neatest and newest
fufhion now prevailing »n the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best fe a Toned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion to those who please to employ him.
He has for sale, several carriages almost
finifhed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794. m&t3m
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the fubferiber has been duly ap
pointed Administratrix on the estate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon Herfelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law diredts—and all persons in.
terefted, are defirtd to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the Estate of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subfcriher, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who stand indebted to said Estate, are
requested to fettle with him immediately; as the
Ast of Limitation of Actions, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
otherwise render it necefTary for him 10 com
mence suits against them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requested to insert this in their
refpeftive newspapers, and forward their ac
counts for the fame, to J. M
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfUcMU and in c»fc* of 50 bottle* each.
ALIO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipea, hogsheads and quarter cafk.t,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 11a, South Front lirect.
Jan. a, 1794.
THE Trufleesof an Academy,
or any individual withing to engage a
per.on to fwperintend the Education of youth,
in the course of studies usually adopted iu
Academies, or any branch of business requir
ing fnniiar qualifications, may open a com
munication with a person willing to be em
ployed a few years (for a generous compenra
tion) by writing (letters to be poll paid) to
Mr. John Fenno, Philadelphia.
(£3T Printers to the Southward would pojfibtj
oblige some oj' theirfriends, by wjeuxng the foregoing
« few tines tn their papers. '
February 8. 4\w
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
Jamaica,^
An Aa for giving validity in this IJland it
Prolates to be taken, by certain Officers
in the United States of America, of D.teds
to be there executed, and also to Exempli
fications of Wills there proved.
WHEKEAS, since the reparation from the
crown of'Great-Britain of the late co
lonies, now called the United States of Ame
rica, great inconveniences have arisen to many
of his Majesty's fubje&s occasionally residing
in those States, for want of a legal provHion
refpefling the probates and acknowledgments
of deeds executed in the laid States, and in
tended to operate in this island: For remedy
whereof, we, your Majesty's dutiful and loyal
fubjedls, the Lieutenant-Governor, Council,
and Aflembly of this your Majesty's island of
Jamaica, humbly beseech your Majelly that
l't may be enafled ; Be it therefore enafled,
and it is hereby enaiSed and ordained by the
authority ot the fame, That, from and im
mediately after the pafling of this ast, any
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed
whatsoever, which lhall be hereafter executed
in any of the United States of America, and
shall be proved by a fubferibing witness, or
acknowledged by the party or parties, before
any of his Majesty's Consuls or Vice-Consuls
residing in any of those States, or before the
Chief Justice of any of the said States, or be
fore the Chief Justice or any of the Judges of
the Supreme Court of the said United States,
and certified under the seal of anv of the laid
States, or the seal of the said United States,
lhall be, and the fame is hereby declarod to
e » as good and eJFe&ual in the law as if such
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed,
had been refpedlively proved or acknowledged
before a Judge of any court of record in this
island: any law, custom, or uiage, to th< con
trary notwithstanding :—Provided always,
That in all cases wherein the right or property
of any woman under coverture is intended
to be conveyed, Ihe shall be examined separate
and apart from her hulband, by the Judge
who attests the probate, and the said examina
tion lhall be certified in like manner as is prac
tised in Great-Britain or in this Island.
11. And be it further enafled by the autho
rity aforefaid, That the probate of any Lift
will and testament, taken before any officer
authorized to take probates of wills in any of
the said States, and exemplified under 'the
seal of the State where such probate ffiall have
been taken, (hall be, and the fame is hereby
declared to be, as good and efleftual in the
law, as if such probate had been taken before
the ordinary of this island; any law, custom,
or usage, to the contrary in any wife notwith
standing.
Pajed the AJfembl} thii ia tb day of Novem
ber, 1793.
WILLIAM BLAKE, Speaker.
Fajfed the Council, this nth November, lia-t.
G.ATKINSON, CI. Council.
I consent, this hth December, 1793.
ADAM WILLIAMSON.
Vera copia extur. G. Atkinson, Sec.
*#* The American Printers are requeued
to publish this a<ft in their several newspapers.
C 5" Term! of Subscription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of perfora
who reftde at a diflance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advertfementi of r-nefyuare, or less, in
frrtedfour times for One Dollar—once, for
I' ifty Cents—ar.dcontinuations at X wenty
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line, ami Subscrip
tions, mill be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourth fir ret, jive doors north of the
Indian Z^tteen
PHILADELPHIA •
Primtid by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.