'
EVENING AD V E R T I S E R.
[No. 149 of Voi. V.] , Thursday, June 5, 1794. [Whole No. 545.]
HH
F° r Charter,
To the Wejl India IJlaadt,
The new (loop
A B B Y,
Samuel Eamts, Matter.
SHE is a Itauich good vdffel, in cnmpteat
order, ar.d will carry about 900 barrel-.. For
terms apply to thec3p ain on board at Chef
nm street wharf, oeio
JOSEPH ANTHONT & SO
June 2 N.
For Sale or Charter,
Bui-then 1000 barrels.
SHE s a Haunch ft ft Tailing new vtfffd,wfelf
found, sn«l ready for any Voyage, either to
E ir«>pe, o the Well Indies. For terms ap
p y 10
DEBLOIS iff BRECK.
At their store, b tween Walnut and Ciiefnut
street wharves;
May 23 d
Lady Walterftorff,
E,l)ward Eroock, Master.
BURTHEN 1700 barrejs; fails and is
in compleai order to take in a caig'> immedi
ately.
Also for Sale or Charter,
Two New SHI PS of the burthen of 240 tons
each, for terms appv to
JOSEPH SIMS,
Who-hat far sale,
Madeira and Sherry Wines,
of the fi-ft' quaiitj, Brandy, Red and Pale'
. Jsmits Ba»k, &c. See.
June 2 d -
John VANkf. MAN) Maftr.
TO Jail with all convenient speed, having
flnee fourths of her cargo already engaged.
For freight or paflage apply to the master on
board, or
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
J"9 e 3' '
Wanted for Europe,
A Jlout and fajifailing
AND
For Cape Niehola Mole,
A Good faji failing Schooner or Brig about
ninety Tons,
B Y
LOUIS OSMONT,
No. Ix 7, north Setondftreet.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
A few Invoices of
Artificial Flowers, Feathers,.
Fans, Handfyme Looking Glafles framed.
Window Glass of every size,
Received by the brig Amiable Sophia, Capt.
Loivther, via New Tori.
'' Sprrmaceti Candies, Claret and Burgundy in
cases, Champaign* Wibe, all to be fold by
Invoice,
Also jujl Received,
A few Barrels
, Fresh Superfine Flour.
; Do. Ship Bread, and a parcel of Prime Rice.
1 J""e 3.
| Excellent CLARET,
In hogftieads and in cafcs of tp boltles each.
1 also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
' MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogfheeds and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUtJHAN,
'No. 1 ii, Sout'h FrOnt ltreet.
Jan. 3. i 7q4 . j tf
Treasury of the United States.
ALL Persons who are inclined to dispose of
either of the different species of the Stocks of
the United Slates, are hereby notified, that
PropoPals will be received at the Trcafurer's
office No. ji Ch'efnut street, at any time un
til Friday the 13th instant at 12 o'clock 1 .
SAMUEL MEREDITH
Agent for the Trpftees for
the reduction of the Public
Debt. 1
. June 4th. 1795. d. t. 12.
APPOINTMENTS.
LIST of the Captains, Lieutenants, Surgeon & Surgeon's Mates for
the Corps of Artillerists and Engineers, appointed 2d June, 1794.'
Captains.
f. Griffith I. M'Ree. - - North-Carolina.
2. Richard .Scott Blackburn - Virginia.
3. James Bruff . . J Maryland.
4. Alexander Thompson - - New-York.
5. WiMm Morris - - Ditto.
6. Decius Wadfworth - , Connecticut.
7. Timothy'Pitkin jun. - Ditto.
ft George Taylor - . . Pennfylvaiii*.
9. James Gamble - . jj)i tto .
10. William Littlefield - - Rhode-Island.
u. Frederick Fiye - . Massachusetts.
12. Beiijaiftin Williamfon - - New-Jersey.
L4'"ll ' . . •
Lieutenants.
1. Jofejjh R. Yates - - New-York.
2. John M'Clellind ... Ditto.
3- Silas Dlrifmoie - . - New-Hampshire.
4. John Pavker Hales - . Ditto.
5. Simon Geddes - - . Delaware.
6. Nehemiah Freeman - - - Massachusetts.
7. NalhafiielDrinkwater - - Ditto.
8. Thomas Hutchins - - Pennsylvania.
9. James Sterrit. . . Di,tto.
10. William Buchanan Smith - - Maryland.
11. Benjamin Wall - . Georgia.
12. George Izard - - - South-Carolina.
13. Noel Bartholomew Monvel - North Western Territory."
14. William Cox - - - promoted from Ensign.
15. Charles Harrifon - . Ditto.
16. William Sniallwood Grayfon Ditto.
17* Henry I'-■ Coleman - - Virginia.
18. Carey'M. Caiter - .' Ditto.'
19. William Barton, jun. . . Rhode-Island.
20. James Habet'fham, j(m. - - Georgia.
21. John Philips Ripley - . New-Hampshire.
22. Robert Rowan ... North-Carolina.
23. Jonathan Rbßertfon - - Ditto.
24. Henry Muhlenberg - Pennsylvania.
Surgeon.
Q/irlej Brown.
' SurgeUti's Mates.
i. Nathaniel Gorham Coffin - - Mdffachufetti.
i. John R. Lynch - - . New-York.
3. Francis G., Brcwfler - - New-Jersey.
4* Richard Griffith - - - Delaware.
Lftt of officers in the Battalion of Artillery.
Names. Rani. Date of kanL
Btfrbeck - - Major Commandant - 4th November, 1791*
Mahton Ford - - Captain - . 4th March, 1791.
Johft- Pierce - - - ditto - - . !sthOaober.
Mofts Porter - - ditto - - . - 4th November.
George Ingerfoll y . ditto - - 2 d April, 1793.
Abimael Youngs Nicoll - Lieutenant - - 4th March, 1791.
Staats Morris - -- ditto - . . 26th July, 1791.
George Demlar - - ditto - - - sth March, 179 i.
Joseph Elliott ... ditto - - ditto.
Piercy 1 Pope - - ditto - - - ditto.
Ebenezer Maffey - - ditto - - ditto.
Peter Van Alen - - ditto - - 6th September.
Frederick Dalcho • - ditto - - - 12th May, (794.
«. . ■ , ' -I)
Just Published,- A PLAIN COOK.
Bookjtorc, No. 147, Market Jlreet, the bef/'ivages <wiU be given.
Apply t the Printer.
The Life of Dr. Franklin, . Ma> 3 ' \
with a ftrikiffg Hketiefs, executed in a mailer- « MVITTt''N.TC
ly ihahner by Thackara and Vallance, price AINjVJi.Ji,JNo.
five iiiiiiingi. Nankeens of Superior duality.
The Readv Reckoner, or Trader's Sure
Guide, * J/9 SALE AT
The Young Book keeper's Assistant, 6/3 No. 4O} north Fifth Street. ,
The Christian, a poem, by Charles Craw 1 April ai. raw&ftf
ford, 2/4 r*-l J" t -
Efop's Fables, 4JB lo D€Let,
Swan's Britifli Architect, 37/6 jr. _ '
Fame's ditto 30/ For Merchants Costing Houses ir Public
Town and toiin'trV Builder's Assistant. 22/6 4
In the prejs, and willbe published in ct fe<w IWO brick 3 story floufes,
days, and fold as above, HAyjNG £.ir>nnjs io each, wiih fireplaces T
Reflections and Maxims, by'
Williarti Penn, with Ms advice to his cbil. ftreeis. fcft^uirCo'f
d,e ". 4/8. , BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
6 mo. 2, 1794. rn&wim April 17. tmh&4t( 'CONGRESS.
IN SENATE,
Friday, May 23.
Mr. Ellfworth from the committee ap
pointed yesterday, for the purpose, re- 1
ported the three following bills: a bill, to
continue in force the ad for the relief of
persons imprisoned for debt : a bill, fur
ther -extending the time for receiving 011
loan the domellic debt of the United
States : and a bill, authorizing a fettle
raent of certairt exper/es of the Commiffi- •
oners of Loans ; which bills were fcveral
ly, read the firft time.
Ordeied, That these bills federally pass
to the second reading.
The engrolfed bill for extending the be
nefit of a drawback and terms of credit in
certain cases, and for other purposeS, was
read the third time.
On motion,
Ordered, That this bill lie for further
confederation.
Mr. Jnckfon from the committee to
whom was referred the bill to authorize
the Preiiderit of the United States, during
the reccfs of the present Congress, if he
shall think the fame rieceflary, to cause to
be built or purchased, vessels to be equip
ped as gallics in the service of the United
States, reported amendments, which were
read.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" An ast to alter the time for the next an
nual rrfeeting of Cbngrefs," was read the
third time.
Rciolved, That this bill pass.
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the House of Rcprefentatives with the
concurrence of the Senate in this bill.
The amendments reported to the bill,
to authonle the President of the United
States djiriug the recess of the present
Congress to cause to be purchased or built
a number of vessels to be equipped as gal
lies in the service of the United States,
were resumed.
On motion to adopt the firft fe&ion,
amended as follows :
Be it ena&ed by the Senate and Honfe
of Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress assembled, that the
President of the United States be and he
is hereby authorized, during the recess of
the present Congress, if the fame shall ap
pear to him necessary, for the protection
of the United States, to cause a number
of vessels to be built or purchased, and to
be fitted out, manned, armed and equip
ped as gallics in the service of the United
States, the officers and men to be on the
fame pay and to receive the fame subsist
ence as officers of the fame rank and men
are entitled to, in the navy of the United
States.
It pa/Ted in the affirmative—Yeas 10
Nays 9.
The yeas and nays being required by
one-rifth of the Senators present.
1 hoie who voted in the affirmative, are,
Messrs. Cabot,Frelinghuyfen.Gunn, Hen
< Iy, Jackion, Izard, Monroe, Morris, Potts"
and Rntherfurd.
>/n" Us n Uh ,°, VOted in the negative, are,
Mcffns. Bradford, Brown, EHfworth, Fos
ter, Hawkins, Livermore, Martin, Ro
binson; .and Rofs.
On motion to adopt the following ad
ditional clanfe to the bill :
"And be it further enacted, that there
be appropriated for the purpose aforefaid,"
the Him of one hundred and fifty thousand
dollars to be paid out of theproceeds of any
revenue of the United States, which now
are, or hereafter during the prefeni session
lhall be provided, not being otherwiieappro
priated. And that the President of the
Unrted States be authorised, to take on
loan of the Bank of the United States, t»r
ot any other body politic or corporate,
perfonor per [on s , the said s um of one
hundred and hfty thousand dollars, to be
fcimWicd principal and interest, out of
the find proceeds,appropriated as aforefaid,
!l°u or contracts,
Messrs' O"h ? p OU r l^e affirmative, are,
Messrs. Cabot,Frehnghuyfen, Gunn, Hen-
RKi' ard ' Monr<)e . Morris, Potts
Rob.nfon, and Rutherfurd '
Thoft. W h o vote(J iVthe
Folfer Ha Br ° Wn '
Rofs. ' ' ermore > Martin, and
And after agreeing to further amend
ments,
Orderix!, Thst this bill be engrossed
tor a third reading.
(To be cmil'inued.)
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
TOUR NAY, Mich 30
" The combined army feenis no# on the
point of important blow. The
head quarters of the [ rirtce of CSbotirg have
been transferred to Eiigle-Fontaine. Gene
, fa I Cfeirfait has left us, and all the troops
under his orders, as well as a considerable
corps of Britilh and Hanoyerian troops are
advancing in the environs of Valenciennes.
For thele last 5 days a very considerable train
of English and H noverian artillery has pas
sed through 6ur town, and taken the road to
8k A ma ad.
" Wejearn, that the Prince of Hohen
lohe and Gen. Count Kollowrath are, in a
few days,, to leave the Imperial army in the
Netherlands, and join that on the Rhine.
PARIS March 31.
Adjutant-General lola, in a letter dated
Guataignerale the 7th inft. to General-'
Bard, states, that on the preceding even
inghe had, with i6ochaffeurs,defeated and
cut in pieces a numerous body of rebels,
who had assembled at Reaumuz. He had
been equally fuscefsful at St. Mcfmin, in de
feating 800 of the insurgents who had
come to the afiiftance of their brethern,
and had entered that place on all his fours,
in spite of a very heavy fire, His cavalry
feemcd for a moment to give up all for loft,
but he had addressed them, and secured
the victory. Upwards of 400 rebels had
been killed in kfs than a hour.
RATISBOJH, March 31.
The Elector of Mentz has made a pro
position in the Diet, importing that, in
confequeoce of the delays and difficulties
which have arisen on the fubjeft of the
respective contingents, the troops of his
Prufiian majesty have been taken Into the
pay of the empire, to complete the armies
of the circles. For this purpose a loan
had been made, under guarantee of the
empire, and on the balls of the future in
demnities which may ariltj from con
' quells.
«_
HAGUE, April 2.
A (hocking in dance of brutality was
exhibited in a foldierof the 14th regiment,
on. the night of Saturday lalt : he, with
two of his comrades, went to a peasant's
house in Wallaing with an intent of plun
dering it; but, on the peasant's remon-
Inating, and declaring he would complain
to the commander in chief, he drew a pis
tol and (hot him through the shoulder, of
winch wound he langui/hed till Monday
morning, when he diejl. His royal hi?h
nels, the commander in chief, on being
informed of the circumstance, offered a
reward of 30 guineas and a free pardon,
with his chlcharge, to either of the men
who were his accomplices, or the money
to any one who could discover the offend
er. One of them immediately turned
king s evidence, and a general court mar
tral is ordered to fit to-morrow, when
there is not a doubt remaining but that he
will meet with his deserts.
PARIS, April 3. 1
♦l, u S u ft' n Maupon, the son cf
thechaucdlor of that name, has been ar
retted m his house at Thui, near Andelys,
m the department of Lower Seine, and
they found 11,000,000 of livres i„ his
portmanteau He has been fafely lodged
in the pnfon de la Force.
~ln ' he , si, r tin S of the Municipality on
the 3'ft ult. fereral epicures were denoun
ced for having purchased veal at 4 c livres '
per pound! f*
.national convention
Sitting of March 29. .
It was announced, that a -report would be
Z' pTir d ,t y ,„V %
lie pall age tolls, mills and other eftabllfli
mentj. It was also proposed to establish four
great communications, by means of ;«t
canals, between the OceanTnd the MediteT
ranean sea, ahd between the Rhone and .he"
<hine, To as to facilitate the of tv"
proposed tljat other c-mali fK u *v was
communication between at th* ° P / n 3
Ocean, and thus J*
>
of Bourdeaux, by which agriculture would
save millions of acres. It v.&uld be
proved that Paris could be rendered a mari
time port by altering the direction of the
Seine.
A deputation of Jacobins preftnted three
ripened cars of corn, transmitted by the So
ciety of Nifines. " Let th£ tyrants tremble,"
exclaimed the t)epbties; "we have iron
and faltpetre—atid early Nature announces
to us an abundant harveit?'
Gen. Balland annonnced, that the differ
ent corpi of his division had made a facri
fice of their meat in favor of the Republic.
Their Example had been followed by fevcral
other corps of the Northern Army. —Ho-
norable mention.
Sitting of March 30.
Legendre denounced several pretended In
fpeclors of the Police, who had noised abroad,
that they had jull discovered fadls againit
Marat and Chalier, whose busts they order
ed the citizens to break or conceal. He con
ceived that this outrage belonged to the con
fpiracv which had been defeated, aiid which,
not being able to conlnmrfiate the designs it
had meditated, wished, in return, to tarnish
the memory of the principal martyrs of li
berty, and thus drive the people to despair,
by iifiprefling them with an idea, that we
could no where repose any confidence.—Ap
plauded.
Carrier demanded, that the Citizens fho'uld
be entreated to keep a watch on those who
may broach such docTincs, and cause them
to be brought before the Constituted Autho
rities.
Jean de Brie observed, that the Hew max
imum on linens and cambricks had reduced
to three millions of livres, in the Depart
ments of I'Aifne, la Somme, and of the
A'oith, the trade in these articles which used
to amount to 15 millions. An address from
the inhabitants of St. Quentia 011 this fub
jedl whs referred to a committee.
Declaration of the King of PruJJia, to the
German Empire, on his fecejfwnfrom the
present Continental Confederacy.
1 Ihe period being arrived 111 which li-'s
s Pruflian Majesty is forced to discontinue
taking that active part in the present war,
which hitherto has been the effect of his
generosity and pure patriotism ; on ac
count, and in consideration of what, is
owing by Ins Majesty, to the preferva
tron of his own eltates, and to the welfare
of his fubjefts, his Majesty thinks it par
ticularly his duty to lay-before their High
nesses the Co-States of the German Em
pire, tht real caules and'true motives by
which he was induced to take such a re
, solution.
, At the time when the French nation,
in the unfortunate delusion of imaginary
liberty, had not only diffolvcd every tie
of civic ovder amongst themselves, but
also meditated the subversion of the re
pole and welfare of other nations, by tilt
introduction of their Anarchic Horrors
and in fact, had already fallen in an hos
tile manner on such territories of his Im
perial Majesty, and of the German Em
pire, as were nearest to them, his majes
ty thought proper to unite his just arms
with those of his Imperial Majesty, and
afterwards with those of the whole Ger
man Empire, and those of his other al
lies, in order to set bounds to the deftn.c
ti.ve enterprizes of a delirious nation, and
to restore peace and happiness to those as
guiltlels as highly endangered dates,—
object was ever the guide of the
aims of his Majesty down to this present
moment, and more impreflive on his
mind; m proportion as the maduefs of the
trench augmented, and the danger of all
Germany hecame more imminent. The
effort* of Jus Majesty to set a boundary
againit this mighty toirent of iU-forrune
on the German Territories, were, it is
true, at firft but proportioned to the dan
ger, but soon exceeded the utmost of his
ability Jhe war was not a war with a
nation, and well difeiplincd ar
mies, bat a war with a delirious and nav.r
diminifhing swarm. of men, with a h.nhlv
populous nation, provided with every re-
?i°O atk them - a fct
Who did not fight merely for victory, but
who fought, by fire, f-.vord, and the poi
f t ,1, 7?' n r" n,S doctrines, to fub
[ the ' whole social edifice of Germa-
To oppose this almost unconquerable
Intolh si u S ' °" h,S part ' bro "S ht
.into the hdd 70 , 000 men , an d those his
cho lceft , . w;th , !irfe has
■ com bated, even until this third cam
paign, uuder ev.ry imaginable oblkcle,
fa. from the Pruflian Dominions, amidst
ready e xha , lft d lands> J"
mSvT thc ' r ° J un P aral,e e7orts, His
eZ/Jr; c : 0,1,e CoTrm '" m
■ P°®We facnfice which the National
v., ' , .
strength of Prussia would permit. »
has-he hesitated to expose even ] *Zt
every danger by which the
fafety of Geimany could be co,,n Ufl .
from the Enemy. Foe this -
has so much P.uffm,, blood bee,
for th.s, such immcnle treasures Z.C
from his dominions. Such a w *
neceflanlv have more exhaled his "
lources than those of powers whose do'
min.ons lay more contiguous to the fc, i;c
of hostility ; and thus his Majeftv Ml
to an abiolute impossibility of t ' k , '
ny longer that active par, f rom his f *
means, without utterly ruining his *
dominions, and entirely exhausting th
property of his Subje&s. h c
His Majesty, however, Ml temafned
deeply impressed with a patriotic hoj* J
being able ft,ll to lend help and *
eft,on, and that with ii.creased force to
he German Empire; and to be enabled
to do this, he entered into a ne^ociat,
with the Confederate Powers,"
certain arrangement to them, the D ,„f
cipal points of which were, beUs tf,
Sr?h '°c h,m > a
of tV P £ &encc of the par:
the Pruflian army Ihould be provided
for by the Empire ,n general; and, that
rht / hoUl[! bt co "cluded to
bis effect, that the bix /.Interior Circlet of
ff m P>re, who Jay mojt to danrcr
and -who reaped immediately Benefrt f rm
the defence, Ihould be charged p,m,iui la l.
ly with the furmftimg of the fame; 3 . i
it was also declared to the Diet of ,W
! Empire, and the Circles above mention,
ed, that in cafe these frank and free pro
pofals were not acceded to by the £,W
ror, his Ma,efty would be compelled to
withdraw the greatest part of J,is troo. ■
and to leave the empire to its Fate. '
Several States have made Declaration,
fiiitable to the pre/ Ting circumltaDces in
which they, and the whole Empire „ cx
placed ; ,n particular his EMora! High
ness of Mentz, full of exalted and patrio.
tic lentiments towards the Empire, cpm .
plied w,th every requisition relative (o t t,e
uibfiftence of the Pn:fiian Troops which
dependw upon him, and iumMnpedin im
mediate Congress of the Six Circles.
His Majesty entertained a just txpefta-
Hon, that Jimilar good conferences
would every where have flowed from h : s
Patriotic intention and his hard .earned
merits in his iormer defence of the whole 1 ■
Empire. Every retrofpeft 'fefemed to
confirm these hopes; op one fide, thepaft
afforded the admonifhingpiftufe of the
dreadful torrent of an all subverting ene
my ; on the other, the noble and heroic
stand of the Pruflian army, and the im
merife facrifices of the blood of his war
riors, aud the tfcafurtes of Ms domin'oris,
made by the magnanimity of his Pruflian
t ajeity. Even then that army was
(landing on the banks of the Rhine, the
Bulwark of the whole empire, and to
which the enemy did not dare to pene-
Irate ; but the subsistence of that anny t
undertaken by the whole Empire, was
the sole condition under which it long
er cou'd be effective, and which the phy
sical impofliUility of Pruflia alone bearing
the burthen, did abfoliTtely oblige Prufiia
to infill upon. Was it acceded to, so as
the future afforded the consolatory prof
peft of his Majesty acting with that
known alacrity-»-rhat well proved fidelity,
in the defence of the Empire, and the
protection of its Conflitution, to the ut
most of his power ? But every Impartial
Obfe
n-er might have easily anticipated jh£-
confcquences of the refufal rtf the requit
ed subsistence, and the return of the Prus
sian troops into his Majesty's own Hates.
I hen might the over-powerful and dcliii
ous enemy ravage, u controlled, through
out the Empire, and with plundering ar.d
murderous hands, unbridled and unlimit
ed, bear down the Germans, their huf
banjry, all law, order and propeitv, fhb
vert with anarchic abominations, the con
stitutions of more Imperial (tates, anni
hilate Pi inccs and Nobles, erase the Tem
ples of religion, and drive from the nearli
of Germans their natural love of virtue
order, by the aids of the feducHve
allurements of licentiousness, and the pre
cepts of an unfeeling immorality.
All these and limilar observations, so
simple and so obvious as they were, did,
nevertheless not fuccttd in bringing the ar
rangement for the fjibftftrnce of the army
to a just couchiiion. This proposal was,
besides this, fufficiently connected with
anoiher arrangement, which his Majeity
had clefigned to offer the confederate pow
ers, but which it did notfeem good to his
- frImperial Majesty to comply with, and
witch other States did alio not approve.
Moreover, this proposal gave rite to an
crceptiorc, which, after so many and me
ritorious actions, such unparalleled facri
ficcs, which his M.ijelty had already made,
be, in troth, had no rt-fon to expert,
and on which his Majeliy, not without
much sorrow, finds it his duty to make
lome remarks.
The inmmoning of the fix circles, by
theeleftorof Mcntz, has been represent
ed as irregular, though in fa ft it is ftriftly
ccnftitutional. Measures there were pro
moted 1 precifeljr contrad'.&ory to the nego
ciations for the fubftifence, and the uni
itrM arming of the peafahts was resolved
on, though it is plain, that such a mea
fuve is as inefficient as dangerous, and
compfeatly adverse to the objett proposed
—inefficient against ati enemy who prefl'es
forward in a mass with an insanity of
Fury, approved Tafticks, and a numerous
Artillery—Dangerous, tecaufe, when the
Peafaatis armed, and brought away from
h ; 4 ordinary mode of life, the enemy may
easily become his moll dangerous seducer,
and finally adverse to the object proposed,
becaule fuck an armament is wholly incorn- I
patibfewith the fwbfiftence
of diiciplined armies. These reasons,
which flowed from the molt sincere con-
Tiftion of uis Majesty, have been represent
ed in the molt odious colors ; and the molt
falfe and scandalous motives have been at
tributed to him, for his diflcijt. to this
meafnre ; —and, in order to prevent the
arrangement of the subsistence, ptojefts
of extending his Dominions, of feculari
zrng eccleliallica! territories, and of op
pi effing the emp-i e, have beed rumoured
to have been by him iii contemplation ;
«.r:d of which his Majeftv's known Patri
ot ism, and acknowledged virtues, will
form the be Li contradiction.
After what :» past, every hope of the
Subiiflencc being acceded to, being tioiV
vamfhed, " His Majesty does now re
" mince the fame, and also every Refn
" lution of the Empire and of the Cir
" cles relative thereto. His Majesty has,
" therefore, taken the Resolution no lon
■" ger to grant his Protection to the Ger
" man Empire :•—But, to order his Ar
" my, (excepting twenty thousand Aux
" illaries, according to different treaties)
" instantly so return to his own domin
" ions."
At the fenae tmt that his Majesty finds
himfelf f,impelled to withdraw a portion
of his Troops from the defence of those
f States, for which they have already com
bited with so much glory, he exprefies
the most earned wilhes, that those con
ferences he lias above alluded to may not
take place, but that the exertions of his
Imperial Majesty, and of the Empire,
may eventually insure to both a full indem
nity, and a general and honorable Peace.
To his Majesty remains the i'ti(f confuta
tion, and permanent glory of having on j
Ids part made such facrilices to the de- j
fence and fafety of the Emperor in the
present awful crisis, as certainly few
States in Europe, or Members of the
t 'eraianic Body, could, without much
hefi'ation, have reiolved upon.
Berlin, March 13, 1794.
PHILADELPHIA,
JUNE 5/
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Schr. Trial, Davis, c«. r.t,.,,
fr 1 h \s! P hn fiu,ke, y> a Portuguele ship
and a Da nidi ihip, besides a
ino^r an:ived ,n the Dekwa -'™
Arrived at New-Tori the yl in ft.
lonJon. mbUS ' Carma "' « da > B
1 he Nancy, Butler, is arrived at Falmouth.
Extradl of a letter from Baltimore, June 1.
ftonu'?® u hat the tran q uil 'tv of your city
friritn 7 bee " disturbed - P«ieularlyby
i■;. L 0 an °ther {late—such conduct is
highly unwarrantable, and never will mee t
g ° od P e °P ,e ' wh ° '°ve
Ki? ord 7'/ nH «
have m r red '^ S ° f the in j"™s they
foot • hln? similar was on'
ZneTt'nJ, ° ng,nate from the
SfSLxSTS
employ, andfomt that had loft their velTels ;
4
I j so that I believe nbt & firfgle ve/Tel lias been
| ileiained ia confeaueilce of that affoci&tion—
j an !it v. ili doabt'ef;, fooh die awav\ Atrat
) tory £df of vslTels have c! ared for the ll
i lan s lince the embargo was ciT—others
that loaded before, and went down to Nor
| folh and Hampton may make the number,
fift,;-. —Many others wait for more favorable
intelligence before they go out. Last even
ings polk brought accounts from your city of
the King of Prafiia having withdrawn Ins
forces from the allies, and that Spain was
about negotiating with France. I liiicerely
hope this intelligence may prove to be true,
as it may be a means of procuring peace to
Europe, and of course security to the com
merce of .this country.—For terrible would
b the firoke to us, to be plunged in war at
t' is time—«nd I join with you in opinion
tl at ti'ofc who wifli it cannot be real friends
t' the United States. —Air. Jay I hope may
be fuccefsful, and as Cougrefs will loon rife,
yo« will not expect any obftruftions to his
| negotiations by those ia opposition to the
, pacific party, many of whom doubtless were
I ends to peace, altho' they differed refpec
tmg the means of obtaining it."
THEATRE.
OBSERVER No. XXI.
Mr. Fenno,
THE Theatre, at Mrs. Marshall's benefit,
last ttetiirtg, was more thoroughly; filled,
than it ever has been, since it was opened,
Mrs. Marshall in Juliet, and Mr. i ennel
in Romeo, did great justice to their parts. —
1' Ir. Chalmers, rather over acted Mercntio;
to cxprels the spirit and.fire in that charac
ter is extremely difficult. Mr. Chalmers's
tuition has heretofore so well accorded with
the Qbfe'rv r's taste and opinion, that he
;nore freely hazards the above remark.
t he Obfervcr- has hitherto gratified the
feelings of his own heart, in noticing the
beauties of performances - and performers,
rather than their faults : he has been happy
tp fee many inaccuracies corrected. Some
actors, who might have been reprehended at
firft, how deserve commendation .and ap
plause, and all are improved since the 'New
Theatre was opened.- -'.those performers
who have not been mentioned by the Ob
server, will umlerfta*<i, as »,gcneral rule, the
;il?nce, is meant as an admonition, this is
how ver true, with some exceptions, which
'hall be detailed, in future numbers.-—The
txrfocmafMse of Rcmeo and Juliet, last even
ing, was not, when taken in all its parts
jood; many scenes Were lir'elefs, especially,
that when Juliet is discovered in her bed,
A'llh the appearanee of death.
Tlie Funeral procefiion, and Dirge in sth
Jpcnt the highlit applause; nothing of
the kind, has exceeded it.—The vocal per
fgnpers in the Dirge, all did well, but Miss
Braa:!hurft, excelled—the iijie of her part,
was happily accommodated to the unrivalled
excellency of her voice, and method of per
forming.
Mr. Finch was justly forgiven, for want
of recolleiStion last evening ; it is to be pre
! Sc . "Ot faon want the exercik of
aifimilar indulgence.
. Tlie well known plays of <£ Every one has
his fault " and "No fqng no fuppe*," are
to be up on Friday evening, for Mr. Dar
!ey s benefit ; his deserts are too much rivit--
ted in the minds of all who have heard him,
to need a comment—The plays and enter
taii ments, are of the firft description, for
the lovers of Dramatic excellence,
■ —Mrs. Whif&ck, Mrs. Morris, Messrs.
1 ennel, Chalmers, Moreton and Whitlock ;
are the pnn '?al performers in the Comedy',
and Mr. Bates, in a different call of charac
ter, from that which has generally delighted
his audience. After naming this group of
performers, the Observer cannot add an in
<du':emetit, to attend on Friday evening.
June sth.
' '
By this Day's Mail.
NA TIO N AL CON PENT 10 N.
Monday Match 31.
Decree of accusation againji Danton.
.1-.EGENDRE. "I our of our cblleagoes were
arretted last night by order of your commit-
The celebrated Danton is one of themj
I know not the names of the other three. If
they arc guilty, I will be the firft to call for
their pumlhment j but you ought to hear
them. I am pure, and believe Danton to be
as pure as myfelf."
He was interrupted by noise—A member
called to the President to keep order. The
President laid he would not fuffer freedom of
speech to be infringed ; that this day would
. b - glomus to liberty ; and that the people
and poftenty would judge the Representa
tives of the people.
IfCgendre resumed. He feared that private
animosities were going to facrifice men, who
nad rendered great services to the resolution.
He spoke of his own connections with Dan
lo" ' °f what Danton had done in 1792
| when rainifter of justice ; andcon eluded with
moving that the deputies arrested last niirht
ftopld be heard at the bar. This motion was
heard with some applauses.
Fa yam thought there ought to be no ex
cepts to general rules : and that the laws
ought to be the famfe to Danton as to elhc-r
persons. Men were to be tried by the whole
of tjieir conduct, not by their conduct at par
n utaf periods. T»-e committees were fcwrfH
to report the cautes of arreit within tv jnty
t four .'.ours, arid .h. rti'ore Ik ir ov.ed thai Jic
partus Brreftcil (ho>_fd n'ot-oe Jieaid
i Roberfjjierrt—" From these diAurban
- ces, for a long time unknown to the as
; fembly, it is evident that a grand inter
_ eft is in question, viz. Whether certain
men (hall be more powerful than their
j country ? Why else is this motion, which
; was rejected when made by Dauton in fa
vor of Chabot and Bazire, now applauded
■ by some individuals ? I repeat it, the ques
tion is, Whether or not certain ambitious
men- shall be stronger than Liberty ? What
then ! shall we have made so many facrifi
ocj only to fall under the yoke of intrigues?
.Little do I regard the eulogies which peo
ple beltow oh themselves and their friends.
No more; do we alk what a man has done
at this or that period; we aflc what has
been his conduct during the whole of his
political career. Legendre pretends not
to know the names of the deputies arrett
ed. Knows he not that Lacroix his Friend,
is of the number ? He affedts ignorance,
becatife he kapwji he cannot express the
name of Lacroix but with shame. He
chufes rather to fpeakof Danton, the in
timaie friend of Lacroix, because the
name of Dauton is less offenfive. We
lhall now fee whether or not the Conven
tion can break in pieces an idol. Could
not all that was said of Danton be said of
BufTot, Hebert and Chabot ? They were
at certain periods, the defenders of Li
berty : Why then fliould Danton be al
lowed a privilege which was denied to his
companion Fabre d'Eglantine ?
" Attempts are Made to alarm you on
the abtife of power : What have you done
which you have not done freely, which
has not contributed to the salvation of
your country, which has not drawn down
upon you the blefiings of the people ? It
is feared that individuals may be facritked.
Do you then dittruft that justice which
constitutes the people's hope ? I do de
clare that whosoever trembles at this cri
sis, is.guilty.
_ " Me too they have tried to intimidate.
The friends of Danton have ivrjtten, that
if Danton be overthrown, I mull perish
under the stroke of the aristocrats. They
have imagined that connexions might in
duce me to divert the course of justice.
What fignified to me the dangers that
might threaten ? My life is my country's,
my heart is free from reproach, and above
all fear. .
" I was also the friend of Petion, of
Roland, of BrifTot; they betrayed their
country, and I declared against them.
Danton wiflies to take their place; Dan
ton, in my eyes, is only the enemy of his
country—The guilty are not so numerous
as they would have us believe—the molt
criminal are those who would raifc up idols
and domineerers. To propose a course
with some members, not allowed in behalf
of others, is an insult to liberty. The
cajufeof the guilty can be pleaded only by
their accomplices. 1 move the previous
question on Legendre's motion,
Barrere represented the necessity of
having only one measure for the punifti
ment of traitors. If the deputies arrett
ed were to be heard at the bar, the Con
vention vrill be only an aristocratic senate.
Such Verfallity of principle would be a
direct censure of all their former proceed
ings. _
The previous question was put and car
ried.
Report of the Committee of Public Welfare.
St. Just —" The Republic is not in
Men, but in 1 hings. There was a fac
tion in 1790, which had for its tendency
to put the Crown on the head of Orleans
—"-there was another, to preserve it on the
heads of Bourbons—there was a third, to
beltow the Crown upon the House of
Brunfwick—there was a fourth faction
that bade defiance to all, which now wan
ted money, then power, and'conduced
the Revolution as theatrical intrigue.-
Fabre was at the head of this fa&ion ;
he' (ported with feelings; he ltudied men,
and spoke every man in his own language.
Each faction had its creatures, and their
general with was the difTolution of the
Convention, and all gtfod patriots were
cast off. This fly faction waited to pro
nounce between viitue and crime, till the
[ victory should have been decided. Chau
mette . sent at firll 30,000 livresto his fa
ther, arid told him to purchaie neither any
national property, nor any other effects
to hide, his money, and nothing with it
There has been a faction winch wanted to
i untio the national reprefen tatioti,eithJ! by
' » I
i renewing or difioking it. What! Sin
- Eu rope does not doubt that Danton and
Lacroix have stipulated sos liberty, should
we difl'olve it ? iJanton, thou hail conspi
red witli Mirabeau, Lameth and Dumou
rier: After the death of Mirabeau, tliou
only artpearedft in the mafTacre of
the Champ deMars: Thouback
edft the petition of Laclos; the zealous
patriots opposed it, and thou helpedft to
digest it. Fabre, thou faidft, compound
with the court; and he who could be guil
ty of such a crime, could be no Republi
can : thou didst aflbciate with Lacroix,
who, for this long time pall, has been
known as a corrupted man—-he never
spoke once the truth within these walls..
Sure, Danton thou hail praised Du
mourier ; thou halt taken his part in this
Tribunal; thou would ft listen to any par
ty ; thou ga'veft advifce to undo liberty.—
1 hou didst fay that thy heart could not
bear hatred ; ait thou not guilty of not
hating the enemies of liberty? Haft thou
Hot sent an Ambaflador to Petion and
Buzot in Calvados ?
Letters addrefled by the Spanilh Ambafla
dor to the Duke of Alcudia bear, that thou
waft fufpeifted of having had conversations
m the Temple with wife and the daugh
j ter of Louis Capet; the foreigners learned
their interest. The fame Ambaflador wrote
at another time, " The renewal of the com
| mittee is a plague to us." It has been said,
that the Revolution, like Saturn, devoured
all its children—No, it lhall only devour its
enemies ; it ihall not facrifice a single Patri
ot—it <'iall only immolate conspiracies. Those
men already accused us of wilhing to dis
solve the national representation. Did they
deem it a crime, for having prosecuted and
immolated the BriiTots and Chabots ? Be'
therefore inflexible j prosecute severally all
those whom I denounce: they have never
j Been patriots—they were aristocrats, and
more artful than those of Cohjerltz; you
W1 teach people to be modefl, and to hate
vain ce&brity. Frenchmen j be happy and
free: hate the enemies of the Republic, but
be in peace among yourfelyes. You will,
learn by this example, not to run after re
nown ; be like the Supreme Being which
.harmonizes the world without shewing it
felf! The public welfare is all; those whom
I denounced, never had a country—they
grew rich by crimes.
By vote of the two Houfel, pruTsd this
day, the adjournment of Congress is further
postponed, till Monday next.
«.Wi ' ———MMW
NEW THEATRE;
Mr. Barley's Night.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
June 6.
Will be presented,
A COMEDY, called
Every One has his Fault.
Lord Norland, Mr. Whitlock
Sir Robert Ramble,- Mr. Chalmers
Mr. Solus, Mr. Morris
Mr. Harmony, ' Mr. Bates
Captain Irwin, Mr. Fennell
Mr. Placid, Mr. Moreton
Hamn#ohd, Mr. Green
Porter, Mr. Warrell
Edward, (find time) Mailer Warrell
Lady Eleanor Irwin, Mrs. Whirfoci
Mrs. Placid, M'g. Shaw
Mils Spinlter, Mrs. Bates
Miss Wooburn, Mrs. Morris
End of the third acl a humourous vocal Pa
rody, on Shakeipeare's Seven Ages—will
be sung by Mr. Bates.
End of the Play, a chamfteriftic Pat.tomi
rnical Dance, called
The Sailor's' Landlady ;
Or, JACK-IN DISTRESS.
1 o conclude $ath a double hornpipe by Mr.
Francis and Mrs. De Marque.
To which will be Added,
For the time at this Theatre, a COMIC
OPERA, called
No Song no Supper.
Frederick, Mr. Ma,-lhall'
S<>P. Mr. Darley
J; Mr. Harwood
; ; ' Mr. Bates
William, (with the ballid of Black
Eyed Suian) Mr. J. Darley
Sailors, Mcflrs. Warrell, Bliifet, Lee, r "
Bason, Dc Moulin, &ic
Dorothy, Mrs. Shaw
Louisa, Mlfs'iJroidlmrft
Margaretta, Mrs.Oldrr.on
Nelly., Mils WiHems
Tickets to be had of Mr. Darley, No. 68, -
north Eighth ftrtn.
At the uiual places, and of Air. Fv.inklin
at the Theatre, where places may be taken. '
On Monday next, an HuftoricaTpiay, cal- *
led The BATTLE OF HEXHAM ; Or
OLD, with The DEUCE IS
INHiM, for the benefit of Mrs. MORRIS
,Mr,WHITLO C K's Night will be or»
We unelday next.A New NoveL
* )?i J u
To the LADi;.i> of .Philadelphia.
This Day is Publtpi'd 6y
UAWtW C'AKEY*
XIB, Market street,'
bound, five-ei. hili; ot a dollar,' sewed
in'n-arbie paper, half a dollar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,-
fN TWO VOLUMES.
By Mis. ROW SON, of frifc New Theatre,
Pliladelphia, A&ibnr of Victoria, the Tn
quilito:-, the FjJle de Chamlji e,' &C-
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given
the following tharafler. «
IT nVay be a Tale of' Truth, tor it is not
onnaturai,' afnefitis a tale of rfeal diltrefs. —
Charlotte,by theartifice ofa teacher, recom
m&idecf tV a- Tcftuoi, *Tr^in bumani-ty rather
than a cohV'&ion of her integrity, or the re
gularity of her farmer conduct, is enticed
from hrr govej*nef», and accompanies a young
•officer to America.—The marriage ceremo
ny! if nrt forgotten, is postponed, and Char
lotte d>es a martyr to the incooftancy of the
ovqr r and treachery ot his friettd —The situ
fions aT« m tlef? and'affecting—the d*fcrip
arions natural and patlietit ;• we should fe
or Charlotte ff fnch a person ever existed,
who for one error fcarceljr, perhaps, deserved
fn-fevere a punishment. If it is a fiction,
poetii joftice h not, we think, properly dif
t> iiHited
Said Carey has jits! pub/i/hed,
A 2 {heet map of Kentucky
compiled &y'Elihu Barker, price or.e dollar
a: d.two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Germany, Spain,ltaly,the United
the Netherlands, and the Weft Indies, Price
tw &■ dollars.
MafJ of New Jersey-—Hals a dollar.
%fops of Vermont, Conne&itut, Delaware,
G;<*rgia Price three eighths of a dollar
each.
April 29. tuth&sgw
Four Reward.
A NEGRO 1 MAN, hiimed L'Elperance, a
bout 25 years of age, of the Ctingo natfon, 5
feet 6 inch'-s high j speaks Very liitle English
ibu'awav from his mailer the r>7th inftanc.—
He Hole and parried away With him orie new
greeniirdad cloth crfat, arid niHrty articles of
houfeHwrnituie. Whoever Jh'alT take up and
fee tire the above negro'in so that
he maybe brought to Justice ftiali receive the
4bsve reward. Enquire 6f the Printer.
May <p mw&f4t
JUST PUBLISHED,
B V
THOMAS DOBSON,
Bcoifeller r At the Stone Honfe in Second Jlreet,
Pkiladelphiai
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA,
OR A
Dictionary of Arts> Sciences, aud Mifccl
lan tons Literature,
ON a pian entirely new ; by whioii the dif
ferent feienefcs and arts are digested into the
form of diftin'd treatises or systems. This
volume contains the articles, medals, medi
cine, metallurgy, ffietaphytics, methodists,
Mexico, microscope, hii&wifry, and fa-great
variety of biographical and mifcellaoepus ar
ticles, rll ultra ted With nineteen coppej plates.
£T The tables of logarithms, fee. which
were deficient in the teuth volume, are sub
joined to this.
Eleven volumes of this work are now pub
lifiied ,-and the Xllth is in some fotwardnefs.
Oh the firft of September, 1792, the price
of fubfcrijrtion was increased TEN do|lars on
all setts nod taken before that time. The fub
fcriptiorr isftill open on these terms, and if
any-cftpies remain by the firft of July next,the
price will be railed TEN dollars more, on
any coptes whi<hmay bt fubferibed for after
that period. - v <■
*»* As many of the fubferibers have taken
only two, three or four, &e. volumes, they are
earnestly requtfftett to take up and pay for the
remaining volumes, as it becomes difficult to
•amplete the fe£CS, and the pnblifber does imt
hold himfelf bouud to make up iny setts after
Jf'ie firft day of July next.
April 22. m&th6w .
JUST PUBLISHED, >
MATHEW CAREY,
: 118, Markets reel,
Price 18 cents,
THE
Catechism of Man ;
Pointing out from found principles, and ac
knowdedged lasts the Rights and Duties of
everyTtational Being.
Am I therefore become your enemy because I
till you the truth'! Gal. iv. 16
Now all the'fc things happened unto them for
examples, and they are written for our
adnionitioiy upon wheni the ends of the
<arth are come. i Gor. xii.
. May it>' ■ ■ tuth&szw
Advertisement.
THE lel'stions of Mr ThomasCurtrs.for
merly of Eiricoti's Upper Mills r and lately of
the City of Wafhingtou, deceased, are desir
ed to apply and have his affairs feitled.
City of 'Walhiftgtoß, April '22, 1764.
ail(th4w
I
Scheme of a Lottery^
To ra'tfe 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars i deducting 15 per Cent, from
the Prizes—this Lottery conjijls of
38,000 Ticket's, in which there are
1 4,539 Prizes and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
1 Prize;
Directors of the Society for establishing
X liJTeful Manufactures, having refoived to
ereCt LOTTEKI tS tor raifrng Ok e Hundred
Thousa nd 60 l t a rs, agreeably iq«an Ast of
ihe Log\ftiture of th< StJte ot have
appointed the tollowmg per ions to foper intend
rfnd dired\ the dra wing ot th'e lame, vifr. Nicho
las Low, Rut us King, Herihan Le Roy, James
Watson, Richard Harriton, Abijah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city ot New-York—
Thomas Willing, Joleph Ball, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew .bayard, ot the city of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
Elral boudinot, General lilies Dayton, James
Parfecri John Bayard, Doctor Lewis Donham,
Samuel W, Stocktoo, Joftiua M. Wallace, JosepH
Bloomfteld, and Elitha Boudmot, of New- Jer
sey, who offer the Scheme of a Lot
tery, and pledge themselves to the public, that
they will take every aflurance and precaution in
their power to h?ve the Monies paid by the
Managers, from time to time, as received, into
the Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain fo¥ the purpofeof paying Prizes, which
(hall be immediately discharged by a Check
npon one of the Banks.
5 C H E: M E:
x Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 20,000
t 10,000 10,000
2 5»ooo 10,000
5 2jooo 10,000
10 i;coo 10,000
ao 500 ip,ooo
IGO 100 f 10,000
3°° 5° 1 5> 000
too® ao 20,000
15 30,000
300 a 1 % 36,000
8100 10 81,000
14,539 P r 'z es - 262,000
23,461 blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Laftdrawn number, 2,000
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
The drarVing Will commence, uhder the in
fpettion of a Committee ot the Supcrintendants,
a& loon as the Tickets are fold,ot which timefy
notice will be given.
The .Superintendents have appointed John N.
Cutnming, of Newark, J»acob R. Harder»berg<
ot New-brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample security for discharging the
trust refjofed i#i them.
In order to feturethe punftaal payment
of the Prizes, the Superintend ants of the Lottery
have dire£led that the Managers lhall each enter
into bonds in with four fufficient
fccuritits, to perform tkeir infttu&ions, the fub
lianee of which is
, L That whenever either of the Managers
lhall receive the sum of Three tfripdrrd Dollars,
he lhall immdiately place thefame in one of the
banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit of the Governor of the Society, and such
of the Superintendents as live in the city where
the monies are placed, to remain there nntil the
Lottery drawn, for the paymn'tof the Prizes.
If. The Managers to take fufficient security
for any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
rcfponnb.lc for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid inl6 the Bank, ab
ftra&s.of which (hall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January i, 17^4.
On application to either of the above gentle
men, "information will tbe given wh : CTe tickets
may ht had.
February « 4 . tu&ftf.
Pennsylvania
t 0 IV I T:
(iTs ) BE it remefinbered, that on the
* twenty day of March,, in
(he eighteenth year of the independence of the
UmtedSratfis of America. Ebenezer Haz*rl
ot the laid dillriiSf, hasdepofited in this office,
the title of a book, the right whereofheclaims
as author, in the words following, to wit:
' Colje^ions; (late
papeis, and other authentic documents ; in
tended as materials for an history of the U:
nited States of America.
By EBgjSlEZm HAZARD, A. M.
Member of thy American Philofophica] So
,lleld , at , Philadelphia, for promoting
ufefirl ; teilow of the American
academy ot Acts ind Sciences; and corref
pondent member of the Maflaehufetts llifto.
ncal Society.
VOI.U,!VJ^jI.
Plet^ s > Ar tes, ac bellica virtus,
venient, et Regna illuftria
condent,
Et JXomina hie Virtms erit, et Fortuna mi.
niHra.' 1
,d n iT° n /7f hy tothe of
the United States, entitled « An ast for the
eucoitragement of learning, by securing the
copies ot maps, charts and books, to the au
thorjand proprietors tof such copies, durinp
'he times therein mentioned^"
QALDWEI.I.,
Cleri of the Diflria of Pennfyhwia.
a y J ew4w
SHOES.
°f ft°ut well made Men's Uze
SHOES, adapted for the Southern markef,f or
laie at 7
No. 36, North Third Jlreet.
May 6 BHvSiflOt
.
. The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bartk of North America,
federal of <wbich have appeared in circulation
kuithin a fe<w days pajl; thej Ore a good ge
neral imitation of tjje genuine Bills, but may \
be dijlinguijhei by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank <jf the
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and" it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in ihe word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters of that word,
i"o that a line extended from the top of the O,
■ to touch llie top of the iCI. would extend con
siderably above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
; erand closer together than the reft oF the bill
The i and fin the word proniife are not
•parallel, the/inclining much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly execuied,the strokes
of all the Letters are ft longer and the device
in themargin particularly ismuch coarser and
appears darker thin in the true bills. Sonje
ot the counterfeits bear date in ijgi—Wheie
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no, Ave dollar bills were ifl'ued in
, ihat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
Anterica.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
18. for their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described; the engraving is bcitei exe
ucted, and they approach neaier to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the body of ihc bill, are m number thir
teen in the genuine bills, and but iwejve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as defer ibed a
bove, the o being less than them, and others
following.
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters tnt in the word Twenty, to the
jleft hand at the bottom, do riot couie down to
the line, but are to cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tut and go
ing below theiri.
The lignature Nixon, has the appear
ance ol being written with lamb-black and
oil, and dlfie/s Irom other inks ulcd in
printing the bills and the cafliiei's lignatuie.
It is iuppol'ed toigeries were committed
ill some of the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits that have appeared, have come from
thence, and two perlons have been appichend
ed in Virginia, on suspicion of being the author
of them.
> The reward of ON£ THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Person or Pfcrfons who thai I
difcovei and prosecute to conviction the feveial
offenders ot the following descriptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or pcyfpns, who manufactured
the paper on which the Bills are printed.
The person or petfons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer Urprinters, of the bills.
Every person who has acted as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
Philadelphia, Match sB, 17 g 4
A t" l 22 > 1794.
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
ter B. ■ 1
1 They may be. diflinguiihed from the genu
ine by the following MARK§ :
The paper of the counterfeits it of a more
tender texture and glifley furface than the
® e ~^ ne ' a " d e ' sno water mark in them.
1 'n tter t " ln theworrf Cashier, in the
true bills is ft. ongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the wlroie letter it a fine hair
troke, evidently in an unfinifhed state. The
3"" '«'he vyqrddemand, is badly formed
and the whole word ill done, and there is tlo
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
l " a '.- e ' n . a '. de ylfle, is much.datker in
n! H' n" ln genuine .bills owing to
°, being coarse,, much nearer
meroiiT™" '""f' l more "U
---view difference ft, tJie eye atUirft
nr>r h r Id"!. 6 rcw * rd of ONE THQI/SAND
urnt ' W '" be paid ihr apprehending &
Li conviftiou the feveial above
THOMAS WILLING, Preftdent
of the Bank united State#.
JOHN NIXON, Prt fident of the
Bank ps North America.
By order ot the Committees of the Rcf.
pe&ivc Boards.
to.be sold, '
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
TNan eligible fituation,—alio aConntry Seat
within 6 Wiles of the tjfty, with 9 acres, of
lat)d, or 42 acres ot land and meadow, the
House >s not exceeded by many in the v.icinity
oi the city, in lize, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer,
fcttf
-pHEoftceof the President and Dkeft or . i
± »t the Insurance Company of N ort J *
America, is removed to No. ,07 c„ ,
Front ftretft, being the south east co'rne. o^
From and Walnutftreets.
To the Ele&ors of the city and
county of Philadelphia.
Gentleman,
This being the last year of the pr c <W
Sheriff's tin* in office. I take the liber
ty to offer niylelf a Candidate, and solicit
vour votes and interests in my favor, to p| are
me on the return at the next general EletLn
as bis fucceflor for raid office; in doing which'
you will confer a 0 obligation that *W|l be'
gratefully, remembered, by
Vour most obedient,'
and bumble servant,
3. JOHN
Stock Brokers Office
No. 16, Wall-street, New-Yokk *
THE Subfcriher intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALH or
srocks on COMMISSION, b,g s | ca ,e to ot '
ftr his fervicesto |;is iriends and others in ,h.
line oi a Stock Broker. Thole who mayW«
to favor htm with thfir bufmeft, may depend
upon having it tranfafled with ihe (iW.oft.fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boflon, or anv
other part of the United State;, will be ftriftlv
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
— m&ihtt
Just Publilhed,
a one handsome volume, nmo. Price 5 s
and for sale by
JOHN ORMROD,
At, Franklin's Head, No. 41, Chefuut
Stre;t,
AN ESSAY ON THIs
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it inipofes,
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
■Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Cor re tied and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENtj BROWN,
JO. D.
ProfelTor of Moral Fh'.iofophy, and the La»
of Nature, atrd of Ecclefialtical Hiftorj •
and of the Englifli Chinch at U
trecht,
Ahquid Temper ad communem utilititem as.
ferrndum
The Firjl American Edition.
principle of Equality, if right-
X ly. underftoori, , s the only basis 011 wiiich
umverlal sacred orclei, am: perfect
treerioin, can be firmly built, and pei;mare„t
ly lecured. The view of it exhibited iu this
eiiay, at the farfie timethat it reprell'es the
insolence of office, the tvrai.nv nJ'vride, a '
the outrages .oTbpßreffioii ; con til IE?, 11
.most forcible manner, the ncceffity - f '
dination, and the just demands ol
thority. So far indeed, from ,3 i
of society, that it maintain !nvi,', :e r
every natural and every civil ei v ncuort,
draws more clofel.y every fbcial tie, unite; ill
oije harmopioujs and juflly propot'tioned lyf-
and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of hmnan na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mpn relation to the community.
March 18. tntf
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA^
In the House of Rtprtjentati<vei,
W December 2ilt, 1793.
HEREAS the Commiffioneßs of public
Accounts, have reported, that they can
not proceed to the in.eftigatiop oi theTreafury
Accounts, refpe&ing special Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof io cir
culation Therefore,
Refolved t That all holders of special Indent*,
be dirtfted, and requircdj on or before the fitft
day of November next, to deliver the special In
dents in their pofleflion to one or other of the
Commissioners of the Treafucy> who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to report to theCom
miffioners on public Accounts, on or before the
tcrjth day of November next, the amount by
theiw refpeftively received, and also to the Le
gislature, at their, meeting in November nexu
and that all special Indents not rendeted into
th<| Treasury as above, on or before,the firft day
of November next, /hall the fame are
hereby barret}.
Rcjo/ved, That public notice of this reflation
be given in the (everal Gazettes in tjiis State,
or»ce every three weeks» until the firft day ot
November next. And that the Delegates us this
Sta*e in the Congress of the United States, be re-
to caufc this resolution t<> be published
m one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia ftn<J New-York, and that provision .will he
made For the expeuccs attending such publica*
tiop.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
•Senate for tbeir concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SANIORD DART, C.H.H.
In the, SENsITEy
Dbckmbek 21(1,1793.
Resolved, That tb's House do concur with the
Hople of Repre(rruanves in the foregoing refo
luttoiis.
Ordered,, Thap tbc.-refoliitioos be lent, to the
Houie of Reprcfciitai ives.
by order of the Senate,,
WARLLY, Clc:k.
ewtNov*
' ■» ' —■—■■
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 3,
South Fuursh-Stxeet.
t