EVENING AD VERTISER.
[No. 117 of Vol. V.] Tuesday, April 29, 1794- [Whole No. 515.]
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. üB.
Mai icet-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery,
Pefjgned to exhibit in a new point ot view
l's effetts ou Motility indujiry, and the pto-ct of
focnty.. S<»me fads and calculations are otlered ;
Co proee (he labor of fjtcmcH to be much more
productive than that ot jl<xvcs ; that countries arc
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits ot their own
labor ; and hence thq n-cc IT" y cAnclufipn, that
slavery is as well ts vnjujl.
I'lt :ck Cents. dtf
February 15, I
. . Excellent CLARET,
In liOftii'* ads and in cafcs ot 50 bottles each,
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,,
In pipes, hopjhrads and quarter eaflcs,
fOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111, South Fconc. Urect.
Jan. 2, 1794. dtf
PIRACY!
THE febooner DELIGHT, the pro
perty of Mj»u \ Antonio Martin, of t-ie If
land of Bona Vifla, vras on the 18th of Oc
tober lalt, while l vngr at anchor t he load Q.f
tha< Island, forcibly entered and carried otf
, bv JOHV DUNHAM, JOHN MURR W, a
man by t'ie name of DODG£, and one other
person, nain.s unknown.—This veiTel fold
to IVf. A. Marjin, by William M'Netfl, who
«nme to B Hia Vitta in her, from.Madeira.—
She was built in the County of Matthews,
lfate of V'« f.inia. and was regifteredat New-
Y >rk, the 16th Aprils*793:—Her name was
p-inted on her Oe-n—Her dinienfions as sol- !
lows: go feet 6 inc'ies keej, 16 feet 6 inches j
beam, ho d 6 feet 2 inches, her burthen 54
tOIM.
At the time °f 'heir entering the vessel,
there was a nlack man op board by the name
*>f J5& Wneer, n'hom they carried Avith thrm.
J>U 1 Bun'ia a was mate of the velfel ui>der
Ca.pi* MWeill, prior to tht sale of her, and
the other persons were mariners. Dunham
js a married man, and has a family at Nan
tucket.
The cargo of the veiTel con lifted of the fol
lowing article -—2 caf< s containing 74 pieces
.Linen; cafe Wi ne-Glaflfes; 1 bale containing
% y pieces Broadcloth; 1 do. 9 do. 79 pieces
Cotton, (needle worked) —33 do. do inferior,
2 m yt ot Sal:; (he had (eve;, small arms and
some pistols.
If any person cart give any information of
4lv» veifel, or any part of the property, so that
it can 'be recovered, or the offenders brought
04 justice, they are reqneftcd to inform Mefrs.
Joseph Anthony a:id Son, Philadelphia ;
Mu k r ay and Mumfoud, New-York; Clark
apd Nio+iti no \le, Providence; or Head
and Amorv, Lofton.
March 17. dt\v,
essence
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold by Dr. Lbs, Gulden-
Square-, London.
pub ic 15 off-red one of the most
eScacious aiid medicines, th;it ever ap
peared, lor that most excruciating pain, the
Tooth-Ache—the numerous instances of its
happy effects, in relieving the afflicted, have
now brought it into u liverfal eftlmation ; it
110tc.lv relieves the tooth ache, but is of the
iitmoft service m curing the SCURVY in the
ms, in preventing the disagreeable finell
t iat is produced horn unbound teeth, & will
occalion a sweet breath j it likewise prevents
ti.e teeth from decaying, and will be found
a general preferverof the Teeth and Gums
Sold !n Philadelphia only at
Poynteirs Stationary Store,
No. 2i, Second llreet.
April 24. tuth&s 3W
The following Certifi
cate ol the funded three per Cent Stock of the
D.>m ft'c Debt of the United States Handing on
•he books of the Treasury of (he laid United
States, hi the names of Donnald and Burton of
London, merchants, and signed by Joseph
Nourfe, Rtg.fter of said Treasury, to wit
dated b August 1792 for 29,59
do>Ur„ and 53 cents waa tranimiued from Lon
don tn the Ihip Peter, Paul Buffey, matter,
bound f.„ New York, and has been loft.—
The Subfcr.ber unending 10 apply to the Trea.
fury of the United Slates 10 have the fame re
newed, dcfiies all persons who are interested in
the fa id certificate, to make their obie'aions
fheieto, ;f any they have.
Francis Macy.
Philitl. March 17.
For Sale or Charter,
iMBST ANDROMACHE.
(An American bottom)
JSKSm. John Moorty Majl. r*
IS a (tour g«io<l vefDi, about two years old,
burrhen 232 tons, has only made three v<ty-
and may be ,"ent to.feji at a fmal e-<
per.ee. She may b? Teen at Vi k- Ibect wharf,
a»»<i the terms m:ide kno'vn bv appl citi ui.to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
March 21. dtf
For Amsterdam,
The new faft-failiug, oopper-
AE't bottomed SHIP
gffl ADRIANA,
l&MHESittf. K. Fitzpatfick, Master.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or pai&ge,
having excellent accommodations, apply oh
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. fcf JOAN KETLAND.
N. B. PafTengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794 dtf
For Norfolk Iff Fredericksburgh,
John Earl, Master.
A flaunch good veffcl, will fail in a few
days. For freight or p flage, apply to the
raaiter on board at Chefnut street wharf, «r
to
JOSEPH ANTHONT & SON.
March 31. dtf
J ust Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fit;zpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz,
GIN infixes, - _
A few Sales Holland Dud,
Ditto Oxnaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Jltniper Berries,
Gla/s Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious fixes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4. «
Dutcn Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c. &c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
thouldapplication be made within a few days :
oiherwije she will take freight for Amjler
dam.
March 1, 1794. d—tf
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Hay/is or Public
Offices,
Two brick 3 rtory Houses,
HAVING 6 loom-, in each, wuh fire places
belide garreis, fnuaje k on the Couth weilerlyfide
of Dock Itr el, between Pear and Walnut
ftrrets. Enqti''f of *
BENJAMIN IV. MORRIS.
A P nl 17- tuih&.tf
The Profits arifingfrom the following publi
cation are for the benefit of the Poor.
Jult published, printed by R. Aitken and
Son, and fold by J. Crukfhank, W. Young
T. Dobfon, and the other Bookl'ellers,
MINUTES
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed 011 tne 14th September 1793 by
the Citizens of Philadelphia, the Northern
Liberties, and the Diftrift of Southwark
to attend to andalleviate. the fufferings of
the aflli&ec! with the Malignant Fever pre
valent, in the City and its vicinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
A lift of persons admitted into the Hospi
tal at Bulh hill, (hewing the times of their
admimon, death and discharge.
Number of Houses, Deaths, &c. in the
refpeftive streets, alleys, and courts in the
of , Philadelphia, NorthcrnLiberties, and
Diilrift of Southwark.
A lift ot Ihe Interments in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia. Northern
Luerties, and Diftrift of Souihwark, with a
meteorological account of the weather.
A lumunry of donations in cafli andprovi
hons, received from f'undry persons and pea
ces, for the uO of the poor and affli&ed
April 2. d3 w
ADVERTISEMENT.
SJLES at NEW-YORK, by A.L.
BLEECKER iff SONS,
' On T-liurfday the 15th May next at Twelve
o'clpck at the Tontine Coffee House,
THE FOLLOWING
< Tra£ls of Land,
In Watkins and Flint's purchase, in the coun
' j ty of Tioga, state ol New York.
The containing acres
Southwefl: quar. of Townllup No. 2, 9,424
- . Noitiweft do. ilo. 4, 5,647
No theaft do. do. S6, 10,525
.Southwell do. do. 7, 9000
Soy tli we ft do do. iS, 3,943
Nothweft do. do. 8, 6,250
Suulheaft do. do. 9, 6,250
Siiutheaft do, do. 1-, 9,000
North weft do. do. 10, 16,475
70,521
t Thefelandsare rapidlyencreafingin.vaiu.,
( Jarge rett!4mentt_aie already made in fevei.al
of the townfliips; the goodness of foil, 4nd
tlie advantages in point of situation Being so
well k 'own, render any lartlier description
unneciirary. A ill pof the traits and co idi
tions of sale ;nay be feed at No. 10, Queen
street, N w-Tort.
A|,rjl 10. tuthfes tl 4M
—NO.
Second Jireet, between Market and Che/nut
Jlreets, Philadelphia.
POYNT ELL'S
AMERICAN MANUFACTORY Ot
PAPER HANGINGS,
WHERE he keeps up a con Rant Itock of i
ten thqufand pieces lor tale, comprising every j
variety crt colours, in ground"; and figures, of
the most modern and tasty patterns, for eve
ry part ol a house. The periV&ion attained
in this in pee.u'iar neatneis r>f
workma ship, durability of colours, variety
in design?, and good quality oi the paper, will
be fourd to exceed any European papers at
tii* fame ntode ate price*.
!; Aw elegant Variety «»f rich fancy feftoon &:
u trrow borders, and of stucco and other co
loured panne! paper*.
Plain grounds made to any colour or &ade.
Wholesale orders for any quantity,-from
the cou..tFy or for e*jko taticwi, executed on
a Ihort notice, on advantageous te ms, on
usual credit.
In addition to the abvve affbrtmert, he has
a beautiful variety of
French paper hangings
of very superior quality, (IVis maiiufjaory)
with a variety of Rich.Bordei*.
.Aprils tnth&sgw
Lately Published.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
THE Hiftoty of N w-Hampfhire, frorfi the
Difcovt-ry of the River Pifcataqua-nby Ji
rcmuh Belknap, D. p. 3 Vols. ,Price yi Hoards,
4 1 2 thjU-rs.
The Forrcfter, an American Fab} 4, being a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Giothier.
75,C«:nts.
A Dilcouife, intended to commemorate the
Discovery ot America by Chriltopher Colum
bus; delivered at the request of she Hiftoncal
Society in Ma flachu felts* October agd, 1792,
being the completion 6f the Thud Geiuury,
uoce that memorable event. To which are
adejed, FuUr D'lTcrtatioiis, conueded wiih the
fubjfft —By the fame author. Prici, 50 Crn.'S.
March 17. tu Sci X"
(NO. 60 )
DiJIAS of PennfylnatUa, 10 wit :
Be it remembered that
on -the twelfth day of April in the eighteenth
j year of the Independence of the United States
| of America, E»enjafrtin"Davi6s of the said djf-
I trift hath deposited in this office the title of a
map, the right whereof he claims as propri
\ etor, in the words following, to wit.;
4< A Ground Plan of the City and Sub
i( urbs of Philadelphia, taken from a&ual
44 survey 5 Containing an eXa<st description
" of all the squares, streets and alleys in
" the City and Liberties ; of the situation
" of all the principal pullic buildings ; of
u the rivulets, and as rtuch' of the Canal
u as lies witMn the coos the draft,
ii by H. ,P. Folic.: puMifced by the
" etor, Benjamin Davies."
In conformity to the of the Congress of
the United States, entitled an ast for the en
couragement of learning, by feci)ring*th£ co
pies of limps, eharts and books to the authors
and proprietors of such copies, during the
times therein mentioned.
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the DiftFuft'of Peuofylvwma.
April 9- w&s2\v
Copied from a London paper »f the %th of
DREADFUL ACCIDENT.
Monday night the Royal family went to
the little Hay Market Theatre for the firft
time this season. A most afflicting scene oc
curred at the opening of the doors. The
expectation of their Majesties' presence drew
the atfual crowd, and on opening the doors,
the torrent broke in with impetueffity. At
the ejitry of the theatre there is an ill con
trived delcendmg fta'ir, to the pitt; on. which
some of the foremoft of the multitude loft
their feet and fell; the crowd prefled over
them with that thoughtleTs fury. which 'in
such a moment no companion can touch, ri6
eloquence foften. Out readers will hear it
with horror! in shis way, seventeen human
beings ZLx'rr troddeti ■to death !ex el "olive of
thoie, who being recovered from the effeil*
of fuffocation, are scarcely expected to sur
vive the bruises which they ftfftained tinder
■ *he preflure of the eagsr, unthinking crowd,
whose sympathy was extinguished in their
curiolity. The .ronfufipn lasted for h,alf 29
hour, and for all that time no possible aid
could be given to the victims. As soon as
possible the bodies were carried to the ad
joining houses j seven of tfiern to Mr. Win
ches* the druggist, two or three of them to
Meflrs. Longman and Broderip's, and thfe
Tell to other houses in the neighbourhood,
where all the means recommended by the
Humane Society were tried to restore anima
tion in vain. But one person out of all the
vidtims were recovered. Several of them
were immediately recognized as hsving lived
in the neighbourhood, and nine were taken
to St. Martin's work house, where four of
them were owned ; five still remain there
whole names are unknown.
The accident did not interrupt the per
formance ; the hoilfe was quite crowded with
the Beau Mon ,'e, and the pieces went off
with great laughte; and apphirfe. It was
ftid the (hocking event was not made.known
to their Majesties till next rttorning.
The following is a lift of the dead, as ac
curate as we can at present produce :
Mr. and Mrs. Braddfn, of Size-lane.
Mrs. Hartwell, Bridge-Stest.
A Nephew of Mrs. 3radden.'
Mrs. Edgar and daughter,,of Pall-Mill.
Mrs. Spencer,of St. James' 'Market.
Mr. Robinson, of Clerkenw tfl.
Mrs. Fisher and two LidieS, natii.es un
known, of Norris-ftreet.
Mr. Brooke, of the Jleiald's-dffici.
Mr. Pigan of ditto.
Captain Garbut, 6f the Merchantman
Three Sifters, of Whitby.
There wer some others, whose names a<e
not known, but who Were taken by their
friends from St. Martin's worfchtjufc. One
remained there last night un-owned.
Mr. Bradden was so much hurt, that fiiK
georw despair of his recovery.
Congress of the United States.
IN SENATE,
Wednesday, April 16, 1754.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
prefeiitativei for cancurrence, entitled,
A.n ast to authorize Ephraim Kimberiy
to locate the land warrant iiTued to him
for ftfrvices in the late American army/'
was read the third time.
Rcfolved, That this bill pass.
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the House of Repr'eferitatives with the
concurrence of the Senate in this bill.
Mr. Brown from the committee to
whom Was referred the bill, entitled, "an
ast to establish the poll office and pad
roads within the United States," repott
ed amendments, Which weri read and a
dopted, and it wasf agreed to amend the
bill accordingly.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the third
reading.
Mr. Foster from the committee on en
rolled bills, reported that they had exa
mined the bill, entitled, " an ast to an
thorife Ephraim Kirtfcerly to locate the
land warrant issued to him for ferviccs in
the late American army," andthat.it was
duly enrolled.
After the consideration of the execu
tive bufinef#.
The Senate axfjourned 1 to li (/.cloik
to-morrow mot-ning.
Thursday, April 17th, I 794.
Mr. Vining reported from the commit-tce on enrolled bills, that tLey had cxami- , -
ned the bill, entitled " an. act for tf.c re- j *
iiet of JLfffcn I.efferts and others, and
that it wasdu'y enrolled , • t
A meifage tVom the HouTe of Repfe- r
fentativ-s by Mr. Beckley their Clerk : t
tl Mr. Prefident —The Speaker of the
House of Representatives haying ligned , <
two enrolled bills, I am directed to briflff I J
thi.ni to the Senate for the fignatiire of (
the Vice-President" —And he withdrew.
The Vice-President signed the enrolled
bill, entitled, " an ast to authorise E
phiaiin I\ i ftibeilv to locate the land war
rant ill ned to him for fbrvices in the late
American army," And the enrolled bill,
entitled, " an ac\ for the relief of Ltffert
Lefferts and others," and they were de
livered to the committee on enrolled bills
to be laid before the Pi;efideiit of the
.United States for his approbation.
, Mr. Vinirig reported from the commit
tee that they had this day laid the last
mentioned enrolled bills before the Presi
dent tlf the United States, and also the
enrolled bill, entitled, " an ast limiting
the time for presenting claims for deftroy
,ed certificates of certain deforiptions."
After the confidtration of the executive
business
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Friday, April. 18.
The petitipn of Ebenezer Parsons and
•others, was presented and read, praying
that certain vefTels mentioned in the peti
tion on account of the peridiable nature of
their cargoes, may be exempted from the
embargo.
Ordered, That this petition lie on the
■table.
Two memorials, from Spencer Man, and
Frantz jieob Foltr, were presented and
severally read, praying allowance of the
, drawback on a quantity of exported cof
fee-and brandy, the petitioners being una
voidably prevented from compliance with
"the legal formalities requisite to entitle
them thereto.
Ordered, That these petitions severally
lie on the table.
(To le continued.)
ExtraA from the Executive Records of the
Senate ps the United States.
United States.of America.
In Senate, April' i6rh 1794-
The following written message was received
from the President of the United States
by Mr. Dandridge his secretary :
United States, 16th April 1794-
Gentleman of the Senate,
The communications which I have made
to you during your present fefiion, from the
dispatches or our Minister in London, con
tain a serious aspect of our affairs with
Great Britain. But as peice ought to be
pursued with unremitted zeal, before the
1 . lift resource, which has so often been the
scourge of nations, and cannot fail to check
the advanced prolperity ot the United States,
is contemplated, I have thought proper to
nominate, and do hereby nominate JOHN
JAY, as nvoy extraordinary of the United
States, to his Britannic majesty.
My confidence in our Minister Plenipoten
tiary in London continues uhdirtiiniflied. But
a million like this f while it corresponds with
the folemnjty of the occasion, will announce
to the world a solicitude for a friendly ad
justment of our complaints, and a reludlance
to hostility. Going immediately from the
United States, such an envoy will carry with
him a full knowledge of the existing temper
' and sensibility of our country ; and will thus
be taught to vindicate our rights with firm
nefs and to cultivate peace with sincerity..
Go. Washington.
■ The message was read,
Ordered, that it lie for consideration.
Thursday, April 17th 1794.
The Senate took into consideration the
nomination of John Jay to be envoy extra
ordinary to the court of London, made in
the meflage of the President of the United
States of the iAth inft. v
And on motl&u to poftpona the nomina
tion for the purpose of taking into consider
ation the following:
" Ordered, that the Secretary of State lay
before Senate, a copy of Mr. Jay's report of
the 17th of- October 1786, oppn a lefter of
Mr. Adams then' minister at the court of
Great Britain, of the 4th of March of the
fame year,"
It palled in the negative.
■ On motion,
" That previous'to going intp the confi
' deration of the nomination of a special en
voy to the court of Great Britain, the Presi
dent of the United States be requested to in
form Senate of the whole bus.ness with which
the proposed envoy is to be charged."
* It palled in the negative.
And .after debate
The Senate adjourned.
Friday, April 78th 1794.
The Senate resumed the consideration of
tis nomination of John Jay, to be envoy
i istraorJinary to the court of London.
On motiun, •
v It was agreed to postpone the consideration
thereof for the purfofe'-of cortfldering the
resolution refpeil:ng ine continuance of the
embargo.
On motion, further to postpone the confi
\ deration of the nomination ot Mr. Jay as
eivoy extraordinary to Jiis liritannic majel
ty, for the purpose ot paflinj on the bill
eftiblilhmg the poll ojfice and post roads.
It palled in the negative.
On motion, to postpone the further consi
deration thereof until Monday next.
It pafled in the negative.
On motion,
Refolded, that the President of the United
States be requested to can!e to be laid before
the Senate the reports of John Jay to Con
gress, while secretary of foreign affairs ; arid
in cafe the books in tfhich the fame are re
cordtd are tranfmitte.d to the Senate, that
the fame be returned bv the secretary of the
Senate, to the office of the secretary of State.
Saturday, April 19.
The Vice-Prcfident laid before the Se
nate a letter from the Secretary for the
Department of State, accompanying the
reports of John Jay while secretary of fo
reign affairs ; in purfua#ice of the resolu
tion of the 18th instant, requesting the
President of the United States to that
purpose, which was read.
The Senate resumed the consideration
of the meflage from the President of the
United States of the 16th inft. containing
the nomination of John Jay, to be envoy
extraordinary of the United States to his
Britannic Majesty.
On motion, to postpone the considera
tion of the nomination for the purpose of
eonfidering the following motion :
" Refolded, That any communications /
to be made to the Court of Great Britain
I may be made through our minilter now
at that court, with equal facility, and tf
feft, and at much less expense, than by
an envoy extraordinary; and that such. an
, appointment is at present inexpediept and
unneceflary.
"That to permit Judges of the Su
. preme Court to hold at the fame time any
other office or employment emanating
from, and holden at the pkafure of the
executive, is sontrary to the spirit of the
coriftitutiori, ancl, as tending to expose
them to the influence of th? executive, is
mischievous and impolitic." ■ ■ i~
It paflfed in the nJY*a» 10—
Nays 17.
:d The yeas and nays being required by
;s one-fifth of the Senators present. '
Tliofe who votedin the affirmative, are,
Meflrs. Brown, Burr, Butler, Edwards, •
Gunn, Hawkins, Martin, Monroe, Ro
binson, and Taylor.
Those who voted in the negative, are,.
Meflrs. Bradford, Bradley, Cabot, Ellf
worth, Fofttr, Frelinghuyfen, Henry,
Jackfoji, Jzard, King, Langdon, Lii>er
more, Morris, Potts, Rutherfurd, Strong,
and Vining.
On motion to agree to the nomination.
It pafled in the affirmative—Yeas 18-.—
Nays 8.
The yeas and nays being required by
ojie-fifth of the Senators present—-
Those who voted iu the affirmative, are,.:
Meflrs. Bradford, Bradley, Cabot,.EUf
worth, Folter, Frelinghuyfen,Gunn, Hen
ry, Jackson, Izard, King, Langdon, Li
vermore,Morris, Potts, Rutherfurd,Strong
and Vining.
Those who voted in the negative, aie,
Messrs. Brown, Burr, Butler, Edwards,
Hawkins, Martin, Monroe, and Taylor.
So it was
Resolved, That the Senate do advise
and consent to the appointment of John
Jay as envoy extraordinary of the.United
States to his Britannic Majelty, -agreeable
to the nomination.
Ordered, That the secretary lay this 1 re
solution before the President of the United
States.
A motion was made as follows :
" Refolded, That upon all executive
business, the minority on any quefijion,
may enter their reasons on the journals."
Ordered, that the motion lie for consi
deration.
Monday, April 21. 1
The Senate resumed the consideration
of the motion made the 19th instant, that
it be
" Rejoined, That upon all executive
bufinels the minority, on any question,
may enter their reasons."
And on the question to agree to this re
solution it passed in the negative.
Extract from the executive records.
Attest, v
Samuel A. Otis, Secretary.
, - f -i -- ■ ■■■ ■ t:
Foreign Intelligence. c
M V F-AklS, Feb. 27.
Irl.Jthe markets of the 25th and 26th, j
there was an entire want of several of the t
indispensable articles of life. Some of 1
the feftions Viade a proclamation by the 1
found of the trumpet, inviting the citi- i
zens to leave the butcher's meat for the
sick, women in child-bed, and wet-nurses.
Under the old regimen, more than half
the kingdom was supported by fill' du
ring Lent, according to the rites of the
ci-devant religion. Now, when an at
tempt is made to introduce a conformity
to this regulation, it is found to be im
-1 poflible, because the peasants, from the
very commencement of the resolution,
[ having been allowed to cut through the
| banks of the ponds and lakes, these have
no longer been kept up, and the fifh, that
abundant source of fupply> is confequent
[ ly deltroyed. This deficiency must be
1 supplied by meat, and this becomes one of
the many causes of the present scarcity.
In an address presented to the Com
munes the Section of Indivisibility has
made the following statement refpefting
the situation of the prisons :
" The prisons are 110 other than so ma
ny pleasurable residences. Choice enter
tainments, the moil exquisite food, deli
cious wines, music, concerts, plays, pro
menades, suspicious aflemjilages, unlawful
conversations—such are the enjoyments
and amusements of the prisoners. 1 hey
have even contrived to convey into the
jails, cattle, game, tame fowls, &c. It
is for them alone, that the nourishing ani
mal sheds his blood, while the Sans Cu
lottes, who, with their own blood have
cemented the basis of our Holy Liberty,
can obtain these articles of support at no
price whatever, or if they do procure
them now and then, it is not until the
trader, as counter revolutionary as our o
pen enemies, has insolently complained of
the maximum. To these good people the
butcher's lhops are (hut. The pork-fel
ler has no longer any meat to dispose of;
the grocers have neither oil nor sugar;
nor do the cows, as heretofore, supply
milk for use, or for the making of buU
ter; the hens have ceased to lay their
eggs ; and, finally, the earth no longer
yields up her fruits and her productions."
The Administration of Police is accu
sed of (haring in, and tolerating these a
buses. t
The Section of Indivisibility followed v
■ up its address by a refolnticn to demand t
• of thi Convention, the transportation <:
out of Paris of those imprisoned on sus
picion ; the sequestration of their effects
till two years after peace; and a prohibi
tion against any one entering the houses . r
in which they are to be confined in the ,
provinces, or corresponding with them. {
After the fequeftra,tion of their goods and
Revenues, the Section proposed that they
ihould have three livres a day for their ]
support, and ihould have but one com- (
man lodging with the indigent persons t
who might be confined in the fame hou
ses.
The Section also proposed, that the
Municipality or Administrators of Sup
ply lhall furnifh the cattle and other ani
mals to the butchers, poulterers, &c. wjio
(hall be allowed to fell no more than half i
a pound of flefh daily to each citizen, who ]
for that effect is to be provided by the
committees with a certificate, as in the
cafe of bread, &c.
Tin's business being ended, a long dif-
I cuffion arose during which it was obser
ved, that for upwards of four months
the Police had not granted permiflion to
any one to visit those who are imprisoned
I on suspicion ; and that for several days,
not one ounce of meat had been carried
to the prisons, unless for the sick.
March 3.
The scarcity of meat, butter, vegeta
) bles, &c. is (till the fame at Paris ; a
calf's caul fells for 20 livres, and a capon,
on the 27th of last month, fold for 47
livres ; a great quantity of rotten poul
try has again been thrown into the river.
1 A letter was received from one of the
1 Administrators of Rochelle, dated the
19th of February, stating that the 11a
e tional forces in La Vendee were difper
'» fed, and that some pieces of artillery had
fallen into the power of the rebels.
s We learn from Dunkirk, that the talk
of a descent on England prevails in every
part of the Weft Coast, where they pant
to atack proud Albion, and revenge the
crimes of Pitt. From L'Otient our ad
vices state, that the most eameft prepara- '
tions aie making For a deferr.t on Erg'knc!.
On. the 27th, the guillotine struck off
sixteen heads. The viftiir.s were men ana
women of the lower ranks.
The ci-devant Cardinal de Biienne,
Archbishop of Sens, one of the Fathers
of the Constitutional Church, diljinguiihed
by his intrigues, & t»y his connection with
the pretended philofophcrs wliofe harangues
have contributed so much to the deftruc
tioii of France, hasjuft anticipated the pun
lfhment of the guillotine f>y dying in his
bed.
Addresses, out of all number, are daily
handed to the convention, praying it not
to lilten to terms of pet.ee, till all the ty
rants of the earth have bit the dust. The
moll remarkable is that from Rochelhr,
which contains the following paflage:
« Let us place Kings in the lb.te we
are in—let us ftippofe them to have been -
favoured by victory ; we aik the Univerft,
would those despots have thought to have^
ever fned blood enough to alfuage their
rage ? NoT- Maries, death jnalfacre fire
coveting all France. Irons! Irons! the
Republic dettroyed!—let us tremble at
those images. No—no truce with the ty
rants of nations. Let 100,000 Sans Cu.
lottes go.over and deal their blows k Ensr.
land. Yes 1 London must become a Car
thage for us—and let tiumphant Liberty
inferibe in her records the united names of
England and France. "
Roufin denounced a new faction in the
Convention,' which, he said, was worse
i than the Briflotine party ; and denounced
Philippeaux asan oppreftbr of the Patriots.
The Cordeliers then took the resolution
to appoint Commiflioners to collect the
different charges against the new faction,
and to read their names in its iittings.
The grand rotal oFprifonets in tile dif
ferent goals of Paris, amounts to ?866.
LEYCEN, March j.
The news from the Empire does not
contain any fact or article worth mention
ing.
Various are the conje&ures on the ar
rival of the Commiflioners from France,
refpefting their errand ; bnt nv>re at the
kind, reception they met yvith at Maycnce
and at Frankfoit, at which latter place
the Prussian general Kalkroith behaves to
two of them in a most diftiijguifhed man,
ner. «*'■ R
It appears the French army on the
Rhine* under general Michaud, is pelted
to ast purely on the detenfive, owing to
the great detachments drawn from hirti,
which have joined Pichfgru, to ast against
the (Combined Armies in a in Flan
ders.
COURT RAY, February 30.
Previous to the French army of the
north taking the field, General Pichegru
wrote the following to the Prince de Co
bourg :
"General,
'• I futpmon you, in the nair.e of the
French Republic, to give up immediately,
Quefnoy, Valenciennes, and Conde, 0-
therwife I shall attack and vanquish yon.
PICHEGRU."
WARSAW, Ft bri ary 15.'
The Ruffian troops of the Ukraine and 1
Podolia are in motion, as also those who
are quartered in Tartary ; they are mak
ing dispositions which seem to announce a
speedy war with the' Turks; and unfortu
nately our advices from Conftantniople
give us room to believe peace will soon be
at an end between those two powers-
LONDON, March 6—14.
Letters from Genoa of the Bth ult. slate
the arrival of a British meffen«r'r in tMt
harbour, with orders from the court of Lon
don to Admiral Lord Hood, to raise the
blockade, which has been done accordingly.
Letters from Paris which have eftaped
the vigilance of the committees, tlate, that
the difficulty of procuring provifion-'in th; t,
metropolis has given rife to much uneafineft.
The people demand a king and bread ; and
the deputies dare no longer (hew themfelvcs
in public, unless in repairing to the Conven
tion, where they daily hear very unpleaafant
complaints. The two commiflioners who
were represented as sick at Angers, were_
taken and killed by the Royalists in the ac
tion of St. Fulgent. These letters farther
Hate, that General Moulin did not, as h's
party have represented, kill himfelf a
ftauneh republican, but was dispatched with
a pistol by La Roche Jaquelin ; and that
the infeflion v.-hich broke out at Nantz, by
the putred exhalation of the dcid bodies of
9900 of the royalists of La Vendue, who had
: been either guillotined or ihijt there, has oc
■ rjafiened in that city an epidemic disorder
which carries otf a greatt number of the in- |
habitants.The French have their new plan sos the
prefe'nt campaign, as well as the combined
priiiC-S of Europe. They are to declare
all Austrian Flanders, Brabant, Liege, &c.
mie partie irjegrantt de la s & it
is pofli.jlethat.this decree has already paflcd
as a preliminary to the attack on the ar
mies, that all the friends of France in
those countries may be roused to join
them.
But, what of more eonfequence to
their cause, they have succeeded in procu
ring an aimed neutrality. Switzerland,
Denmark, Sweden, and Venice, have
entered into a negociation for maintain
ing the rights of nations; and to this
confederacy they, have invited America,
Floieuce, Genoa, and all other Itates who
have been threatened, a3 well as those
now at war, wbo have been forced to
join the allied powers.
Commodore Elphinjton, who was ap
pointed cpmmandant a't Toulon, on its
being firfl poffefled by the Engliih, is on
his way to England, with two very fine
fiiips of the line, taken in that poit—
one of them is the Commerce. de Mar
ieilles, of 120 guns.
There are French papers in this town
of the 27th. By these it appears, that
the Royalists have, since the former ac
counts 111 the convention, gained some con
siderable advantages over the forces ot the
ar.archifts. There is reason to believe,
that dilcontent and despair are the general
{enfations of the people of Paris.
In-fait, the R yalifts in Brittany, who
have been so often extirpated by the nati
onal convention tits, and have as often risen
from the dead, are at this moment in as
great force as they were at any period of
the lad year; and it now appears, that the
chiefs of that party have been actively,
tab' with fxrecy, employed all the win
ter mo uhs, to collect a very formidable
force against the opening of the campaign ;
and such as will induce our government to
lend them fuccoura. The Royalists are
now attempting to gain some port, vVhere
our troops miy land with faiety; and
Lord Moira is arrived at Jerfev, in order
to be on the spot to receive the speediest
intelligence from them. Government has,
there is reason to believe, the mod certain
information, of the ftrtngth of their force,
which promises the moil important advan
tages. The whole country of the Bas
Limofin is in aims against the convention;
and by private letters we know, that M
4e Precy, who commanded the Royalists
at Lyons, and.- retired to RovCrgue after
the evacuation of thff£ city, is now in the
Bas L'moun country, at the head of 6000
men, an.! is making the best of his way to J
join the Royalists of Brittanny*
We letrii by the Dutch mil, that the
States of Holland and Weft-Frieflaud
tavepablilhed a placart to the fame pur
port as the bill brought into our parli 1-
me it relative to Bills of Exchange drawn
hy and in favor of persons relident in
France lince the ill of January, 1794.
Several Engliih men of. war entered the
Gulph as St. Florenzo ; and af:er having
directed their fire upon some adjacent
heights, they effedled a landing of the
troops, whorn they brought with them,
at a place called Parailo, at the diitarice
of four Italian miles from Fort Morafella.
This latter fort being immediately attack
ed by land and sea, surrendered, after a
re'iftance of two days. . Soon after," the
Britiib troops joined by some of the Cor
ficaus, went to attack another fort, called
Fornali, the iflue of which expedition has
not yet transpired. At the fame time a
moil violent cannonade was heard at Capo
Coi'fo.
On Sunday night, about midnight, his
royal hlghiief* the Duke of York set off
from York-Hpufe, to join the enemy in
Flanders. His royal Highness was at
tended by general Huife, colonels Hew
gill and Calvert, and Captain Murray.
Yeftenfay general Fox set off from the
War-Office to join the army on the conti
nent.
A terrible plot to deliver the import
fortrefles of Luxemburg to the French,
is laid to have lately been difcovcred, just
in time to prevent its execution.—Part of
lite fortifications were to be blown up, in
order to facilitate the entry of the French.
General Schroeder, the Governor, was
the principal in the conspiracy. On its
detedlion lit blewouthis brains, according
to some : according to others, he has es
caped into France, with several officers
and cannoniers.—All strangers ate sent
out of the towi\ of Luxemburg, and fe
vcwtl arieilations have been made.
1 The government of Florence have pub-
lifted an edict ordering all French men,
of what defcript' -v fwrvfty wltt.sapVJt
prove the* retici ice n that Dutch)',
ever since January 15, 1 793' q. uit
Tuscan territofie» in thfripacc ot a mjnth
rrom the publication of the edict. _
The grand Fleet rem V.rw at Spithead
almolt daily . enforced by frejh (hips, Wilh
Ealt and Weft-Indiamey and all
forts of veTels for convoy.—Sparge and
noble a colk&ion of (hipping was never
scarcely in the collect';'l together,
•is are now at St. Helens, Spithead,
Cowes, Portfmonth harbor, and South
ampton river.-—No talk at prefeut of-fail
ing.
The la fed accounts From BriiiKis itate
that a general movement is obferwd among
the French troops from Thionviils as far
as Dunkirk. The garrison of Lisle con
fills of 15,000 men—that of Douay of
i between 12 and 14,000.
I General Van Damme is in the camp
| before Dunkirk, 'with a confidcrable body
j of troops, threatening to invade maritime
Flanders.
1 A letter dated Mans, Feb. 22, states,
1 that the Royal Chriltian army ftiii march
es in three columns ; and that all young
people have received orders t.o take up
: arms, and to march and repulse them.
Those youths who married to avoid being
out in requilition, are not exempted.
A letter from Rouen, of the fame date,
i states that there is an aflemblage of dif
i contented persons in the environs of Di
' eppe, who may probably a<St in favor of
the Royalists. .
Yesterday arrived several letters and pa
pers trom the Continent, of aveiy leceiic
date. Outf Pans Gazettes reach down to
the »7th ulf but, excepting the universal
cry for provisions, the extreme want of
which is publickly declared in the Conven
tion and in the clubs, there is no particu
lar news.
The desertions from the \Frcneb North
ern army are more numerous every day ;
and all deserters agree in one point, that
tnis army is very delhtute ot Provilions.
Intelligence was received yelterday
morning in the city, that the valuable
French fleet of St. Domingo men had
got fal'e into the ports of France, under
,Uie convoy of two 74 gun (hips. Oracle.-
The markets at iiriltol are at preferit
higher, taking all articles of food upon
an average, than can be remembered.
The prices are, beef and mutton, from
4s. 4d. to ss. 4d. and from ss. 4d. to 6s.
per ltoue ; lueking pigs, from Wales, are
advanced from 2S. 6d. to 3d. yd. each :
and all kinds of poultry are dearer in a like
proportion, lalmon lelis at 4d. per lb.
A Dutch Mail arrived this morning ;
according to this, nothing new has occul
ted upon the Rhine.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 29.
Pajengers in the William Penn from
London.
Mr. Richards, Mr. Maulby, Mr. Hatfield,
Mr. M'Lawes, Mrs. M'La'wes, % chiiUieu,
Mrs. JBouuiie, Mr. Toierouri.
From the General Aduertifer.
The General Advertiser has been compar
ed to the Brulfel's gazette, by a demoa atic
paper 111 this city, .Jid forlcoththecom ari
lcii is very pertinent. The Bruflel's gazette
is the humble panegyrist cf monarchy and
ariltocracy, audio is the General Advertis
er ! tt.e Jjrulfel's gazette is tile enemy to li
berty, and lb is trie General Aavertiler ! tne
Brull'cl's gazette is the creature of a court, &
10 is the General Advertiser ! the Brufiel'i
gazette strives to give the people the rank of
twine, and so does the General Advertiser.
How apt then the comparison. But what
charaft v is to be given to the paper that
contains this eulogium ? The gazette of the
United States is the paragon of excellence—
Is a philippic upon the lwinilh multitude de
lireable, it may be found in that gazette, is
it requiliie to picture the horrors ol the reign
1 of liberty, appiy to that gazette. Do you
| Willi to fee an abject devotion to knightt of a
iuntiing lyftem, fearchfor it m the gazette
I of the United States. Do you wilh to fee
Great Britain Vindicated, take a peep into
that gaz -ete. Do you wilh to fee republican
ism upon the rack, behold the instrument of
torture in the Gazette of the United States.
The ietfton m left with the Pub ic.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 28.
Friday evening in a violent fquaU, a boat
overftt in the North river, and 3 French of
ficers belonging to the Partridge, the mate
✓
the furge-n, and the boatswain, were nit- l
fori.unaielVdn.wned.
The Jvng of Great Britain, by procl:-
mitjon.ot February 12th, reinoved the ijoa
ra»t'iie laid Oil-air American vcflels, on ac
count of the iate fever in Philadelphia.
ARRIVED.
Ship Union, Whitlock, Liverpool
Cleopaira, Keefe, Isle of France'
Sally, Ferres, Dem rant
Belvedere, De Peyller, London
Brig Fjien llhip, Haff, Boneira
Union, Keaquick, Antigua
Molly, Morgan, New-Orleans
Schrs. Hope, Higby, Cape Francois
Swallow, Pease, Charleston
Sloop Ranger, Gates, Philadelphia
Eliza, Brown, Charleston
Fair Play, Williams, Edenton
The Schooner H,ope, from Cape Francpis,
is loft from New-Providence, cleared by the
British, and they have released all American
velTels at New-Providence.
The.brig Prosper, Tyler, from Curracoa,
to Boneira, is dil'mafted and put into Curra
coa.
The (hips Mercury and Jay, and Brigan
tine Enterprize, are arrived at Cork.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
PARIS, February y£>.
Madame Elizabeth, and the children of
the late King, are in good health at the
Temple, and are allowed a greater degree of
liberty than formerly.
Very vigorous exertions are making for
the purpose of preventing the Royalilts from
becoming again formidable. Troops are sent
'from Paris daily, with orders to march at the
rate of fourteen leagues a day.
The Society of the Commune of Basque
hare made an offering to the Convention
of 2 000 livers, as a reward to the lirll
Republican who shall land in England.
The works in the harbors of the Re
public are carried on with the greatest or
der and alacrity, and considerable fleets
will soon be ready for sea.
February 23.
On the 13th init. seven rebels were
guillotined, and 28 (hot at Lyons. Def
premenil is said to have been arretted at
Havre, and removed to the prison at Pa
ris.
A great scarcity of proviiions still pre
vails at Paris. The lection of Qumze-
Vingt has lately denounced to the com
monality, that they had imprisoned a num
ber of butchers, who had, out of 180 iheep,
killed 150 which were with ewe, and de
sired that the culprits might be puoifhed
with death. The Council mean to sup
ply to the Convention on the i'ubjeft.
Thomas Paine has wrote to the Society
of Cordeliers, from his prison, to requeit
their interference, but the only answer he
received, was the speech he made in favor
of the King.
A new president was elcfted in the
evening of the 19th, and St. Just, out of
138 votes, had 120; he was in conse
quence proclaimed president.
NATIONAL CONVENTION, Feb. ij.
Arrival of French Eaji Indiamen.
' Jean Bon Saint Andre read a letter from
the commander at l'Qrient. —He writes, that
the frigate Atalanta, coming from the Isle de
Fraqce, having informed him tjiat he had
failed in company with the frigate the Faith
ful, within ten leagues of that port; and
the last mentioned frigate having under her
convoy ten large Kait-India Ihips, had been
separated by a thick fog, the commander im
mediately lent out a number of vefieis t/J fall
in with the said fliips; and that, the nexf
day, the Ihips the Fawni the Felicite, the
Lucile, the Ganges, the Juste ; the Constance,
the Baile de Suffrein,the Indicii,the Argilette,
and the Reciproque, anchored in that port.
In cqnfequence of a report of Stw Andre,
the Convention palled the following Decree:
• 1. The Maritime Flag decreed by the Na
tional Constituent AJTembly is fupprefled.
2. The National Flag shall henceforth be
formed of the three National Colours,
disposed in three equal band?, pat in a
vertical direction, in such a manner
that the Blue be affixed to the Staff of
the Flag, the white in the middle, and
the Red floating in the air.
3. The Flag called the Jack, and the
Flag on the stern of the fliips, fliall be
disposed in the fame manner, obfervmg
the ufnal proportion of size.
4. The" 111 earners fliall likewise be formed
of three coloui'S; of which one fifth
shall be blue, one fifth white, and
three-fifths red.
5. The new National Flag, fliall be hoist
ed in all the (hips of the Republic on
the 20th of May ; and the Minitter id
Marine fliall give the iiecefiary orders
for that puifpofe.
LONDON, March 1.
From Peterfburgh there is intelligence)
A
that the celebrated Count Oftcrmann,
Prime Mwifter of the Empress of Ruf
lia, has refigncd the helm of State Af
fairs. He will be succeeded by the Privy
Cduncellor, Markow, but the latter is not
to bear the title of Vice-Chancellor.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
_____ /
ARRIVED.
Ship Prosperity, Watts, Tqrk's-lfland
Brig Mary & Elizabeth, Latimer, Jamaica
Hope, Anderfibn, 1 Antigua
' Betsey, Kean, St. Euftatia
Sch'r. Polly, Perfliey, Virginia
Illinois, Robfon, St. Euftatia
Winfield Packet, M'Mcran, Virginia
Sloop Betsey, Laeey, ditto
Polly & Sally, Dickey ditto
Sally, Coffin, ditto
Eliza, Smith, St. John's
Peggy, Benth.le, Charleston
Captain Latimer of the Brig Mary &
Elizabeth arrived here in 32 days from
Jamaica —he informs that on his paflage
from this port to Jeremie hevvas captured
and sent into Jamaica, where his Cargo
was fold, and the Brig liberated on con
dition of giving security for her full value j
as also about 60 fail or other American
velTels; he further informs that they still
continue fending in American veflels not
withstanding the late inftruftioik.
These inftruftions had not reached Ja«
maica, when Capt. Latimer iailed. I
PASSAGE POUR ST.DOMINGUE.
Tousles Franpois qui fe font prefente
ou V u&totit fe presenter pour avoir une
prompts paflage pour St. DoAiingue, font iti-
It a m men t p :■-.is de %'lfcr leurs 110 ms anjoui
d'nui ou demain, dans le comptoir de James
Mc. Curach &. Co. No. 42 ND<>ck street, qui
fe propofent d'envoyer Ton batiment le Same
di prochain 3de Mai: le batiment elfc lout
p»et p9ur fa Ire a la voile avec des bonnes ac
commodations ponr prendre paffagers a bord.
April 29. 3 .
A New Novel. .
To the LADIES of Philadelphia.
This Day is Publijhcd by
MATHEW CAREY,
118, Market street,
Price, bound, five-eighihs of a dollar, sewed
in marble paper, ha\t a,dollar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
In two volumes.
By Mrs. ROWSON, of the New Theatre,
Phlade phia, Author of Victoria, the In«
quifitor, the Fille de Chambre, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given
' the following character.
IT ma) be a Tale ol' Ttuth, for it is not
unnatural, ana it is a talc of real diltrefs.—
Charlotte, by the artifice o£a teacher, recom
mended to a school, from hnmanity rather
than a eonviflion of her integrity, or the re
gularity of her former conduct, is enticed
from her gover. efs,and accompanies a young
officer to America.—The marriage ceremo
ny, if not forgotten, is postponed, and (Char
lotte dies a martyr to the inconstancy of her '
lover, and treachery of his friend —The situ
ations are artless and affe&ing—the descrip
tions natural and pathetic; we should feel
for Charlotte is.such a person ever existed,
who for one error scarcely, perhaps, deserved
so severe a punifhinent. If it is a fiction,
poetic justice is not, we think, properly dis
tributed.
Said Carey has jujl publijhed,
A 2 flieet map of Kentucky
compiled by Etihu Barker, price one dollar
and rwo thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Germany, Spam,ltaly, the United Provinces,
the* Netherlands, and the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars.
Map of New Jersey—Hals a dollar.
Maps of Vermont, ConneSicut, Delaware,
Georgia—Price three eighths of a dollar
each.
j April 29. tuth&s3w
NEW THEATRE.
■ •
TO-MORROW EVENING,
April 30.
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, called the
Highland Reel\
To which will be added,
A New feriou: Pantomime,
called
La Foret Noire,
OR THE
NATURAL SON.
With New Music by Mr. Heinagle, and
New Scenery by Mr. Milburn.
The PuntO'nime under the chrecH'jn of Mr.
Francis.eeh elite of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, an 266,000
Dollars, dcduclirtv 15 per Cent, front
the Prizes—this Lottery eonfijls of*
Tickets, in which there are
14.539 Prizes antl 43,461 Blanks,
fang about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THi. Dncdon of rhe Society for eftabiilhing
Ufetul Mdnuiadturcs, having resolved tcj
trtct I.OTTXR I£S for One HutoDßed
Thousand Dol ar s, agreeably to an A& of
the Lf (l iurc of the State of New-lei fey, have
appointed the following persons to fupsrintmd
«'io dirvel the drawing of the f.one, vi». Nicho
las Low, Rufus King, H«**nian Lie Roy, James
Wat Too, Richard ffartifon, Abijah Hammond, I
and Cornelius Ray, ofihe city ot New.York—
Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew liayard, of the city of Phila
delphia—His Ljfccel.eticy Richard Howell, £fq.
<Elia« Boudinot, General Elias Dayton, Ja'mes
Parker, Jtfchn Bayard, Do£tof Lewis Donham,
"Samuel W.Siockton, Joshua M. Wallace, Joseph
■Bloomfield. and Elifhd Boudmot, oC New-Jer
sey, who offer the following Scheme of a Lot
tery, and pledge theipMvcs to the public, that
"they will takr-every afTurnnce and precaution in
khetr power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from tinae tnrtime, as received, into
£he Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for the purpofcof paving Prix s, which
fliall be immediately discharged by a check
rtpon one of »he 8a ks.
S V HEME:
j "-Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 20,c00
1 10,000 io,oco
2 5',000 10,090
s 2,000 .10,000
io I,COO ic,ooo
• 20 500 , 10,000
ICO 100 10, coo
S c ° ' 69
1000 20 20,000
too o 15 30*000
3000 12 36,000
8100 .10 81,000.
14,539 P r, zes. 262, qco
23,461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
La itdrawn nuinucr, 2,000.
£8 ; 000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
'The draw rug will commence, undc* the ju
•*fpe&iDfl of a Committee of the Jjupermtendanis, j
affcon as the Tickets are fold, ot which timely
nonce wiii. be given.
The Superintendents have appointed John N.
CUmtijmg, c\r Joc<>»j R. Hardtnbeig,
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, o!
Trenton, as immediate' Managers thereof, who
havo-given ample feciwity far Bifchaigiiig the
trust repp fed in them.
(£3T In order to secure the
of thq Prices, the Sjjperinteiidan&sof the Lottery
have d netted that the \JanageisJhall each enter
jinto bonds in 4c<Qj>9 dollars, w itb hjjir fufficient
fecuritus, to perform their inftiunions, t'he ful>-
ftanoe ot wfcvich is - f
(. That -whenever either -of il*e Managers
shall receive the turn of Twee Hiundrrd Dollars, I
, "he ftiall irn•«t di arteiy frlace the lame in oue of the
. Hanks i»l New.* York, or Pjujadetphia, ro the
credit as 'he Governor of the Society, and such
ot the Supenntendantsxis live in the city whvrre
rneimOYites are piaced, to remain (here nntiljhc
Lottery is d ri.wn, for the paytnnt of the Prizes.
U. The Managers \A take lufficiem IfccUnty
• /or any Tickets they jm®y trust, othyrwife 10 be
refponuble foj them.
111. To regular books of Tickets fold,
Monks received and paid in 0 tiic Bank, ab
flratts 0/ which Gwlibe sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January 1, 1794.
t On application to either of the above gentle
men, information will be given where tickets
tua'y be had.
„ jV.bruary 24 trt&ftf.
juit Published,
AND TO BE SOLD BY"
Thomas dob son,
At the Stone houie, No. South Second
Street,
Historical Collections •
CONSISTING OF
STATE PAPERS,
Antl oihsr authentic Document., inrended as
materials foran-Hiftory ofthe .United States
oif America.
Br EBENEZER HAZARD, a. m.
In twin large quarto volumes, price ten dol
. lam m boards.
Subscribers \yitt be furnitoe-d-w+th the id.
volume on paying three dollars and a quarter
—'.having pa id five dollars and a quarter on
.. rtceiviug the firfl.
This second volume comprehends, among
other iniereftiag pai tic*lars, <a complete co.
py of the Records of the Umtrd Colonies of
N- England, in which the conduct of the com
nnfljoners velpeftlog tlie general concerns of
trie colonies—the neighbouring Indians—and
the Dutch at Manhattans New York) is
particularly detailed.
, * Materials are collected fufficient to
foim a THIRD -VOLUME, The time of
pubnfhing will dep.-nd on tile encouragement
to from fubferiptions whidi will be
received by Thomas Dobfon, Philadelphia ;
Jere. Libbsy, POrtfmoutU, New Hamp/hia;
Thom.is& Andrews, & Dav. ffelt,Bo(lo >; If
aia Thomas, Wortefter ; Isaac Brers, New-
Haven; Timothy Green, N«v I.ondon ; Jacob
Richardson, Newport; John Carter, Provi
dence; Hugh Game, Thomas Allen,and
Samuel Campbell, New York-; Fred rick
( raig, Wilm ngron, Delaware; J«nies Rice,
Haltimore; Mr. Litidfey, Norfolk; David
Henderfon, Fr d-rickslm., ; John Grammar
Peterfbnrg; Auguftme Davis, Richmond ; F
X-Martin, Newbern, N. C. John Bradley,
Wilmington; and Wilxani Price YouugXhar
Jetton. .
JUST PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOBSON,
JmkfiUer, at tie Stone Hovfe in Secondfireet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA,
OR A
Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, and Mifcel
laneotis Literature,
ON a plan enti ely new ; by which the dif
ferent (ciences q,nd an s are digcfted into the
form of diftinft treaties or system*. This
volume contains the aitichs. medals, medi
cine, metallurgy, ■ metaphysics, methodic,
Vl"xic>j iniciol'cop:', mt iwifry, and a great
variety "t biographical and rnilcellaneous ar
ticles, iHuftrated with nineteen copperplates,.
$3" The rabies of' oic. which
were d ficient in the tenth volume, are Tub
joined to this.
Eleven volumes of this work are now pub
lished, and the Xllth is in Tome so. waidnefs.
On the firlt of September 1792, the price
offubfeription was lncrcafed Th.N dollars on
all lefts not taken before that t'roe. The fub
fc rip Hon isftiil open 0:1 these terms, and if
arty copues remain by the firft of July next,the
price will be raifrd TEN dollars more, on
any copies which may be fubfci jbed for after
that period.
%* As many of the fubferibers have taken
only two, three or four, See. volumes, they are
eameftly requested to take up and pay for the
remaining volumes, as it becomes difficult to
complete the sett*, and the publiflur » not
hold h ; :ntel 'bniud to make up any ferts after
the firft: day of July next.
Ap il 22. 6 v
Tuesday the 29th inltant
11 o'clock in the Forenoon, will be
fold by public vendue, at Mr. 80-wen's
"Exhibition Room, No. 9, nortb Eighth
fired,
A COLLECTION OF
Capital Figures,
By the molt approved Freorli, Italian, and
Flemish Mallei <, coll' fted I>y a gentleman of
talle in Europe, and luperior to any that have
ever been offered for iale in Anierica.
Tfafe Pictures inav be viewed at any time
previous to the day of faie at the Exlnb tion
Room, where catalogues may be had, Sud at
the Subferibers Auction Robm.
LIKEWISE,
A ColleElion of Books,
in language ••, fucn as Ruljian, Polish, I
and a few maps in rhe said Languages. I
FOOTMAN cJ° CO. Auctioneers, I
April 22. I
Concluding Sales.
THE. Sub ciiber having eht-ttfl 'into Co |
partnerftup with Mr. Jrhn fe*rfholo*iew in J
the of Sugar Refining, wi]J dtfpofe (
of the
Remaining St pet on hand I
consisting of |
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By Whotefale at Prime Cojl for Cajh. I
John Dorfey,
No. 28, North 3d itreet. I
Ap'f 12- tirth&s6w I
TO BE SOLD;
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible iituation, —alio a Counti v Seat I
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow,
House is-not exceeded by many in the vicinity I
of the city, in size, or convenience. I
t For particulars apply tothe printer.
> mfcthtf I
TO BE SOLD,
And entered upon the firft oi May,
J Thf noted Ejlate, called I
JohnJon Hall:
Lying in the Mohawk country, ftateofNew I
York, formerly the feat of Sir William John
son, containing about (even hundred acres tfl I
■ land, which is of the very brfl quality ; 1o?c - '
1 ther with the stock, and larmicg uienliljj The I
buildings are large and convenient, and it for |
; a gentleman's feat. The payments will biAaade
easy, on good fecurit-y. For fu.ther pariSulars
- enquire of George Mnealf, Esq. on the p*mif
es, of Silas Xalbot, Efq, lt Philadelphia, of
• Samuel Ward and Brothers, .in New Yoik or I '
of the fubferiber in Piovidence. ' I
Jabez Bo wen. | >
Treasury Department,
Rtvenue Office, April 19, 17 g 4 . !
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofalj 1
will be received at the office of the Comm.fr e
fioner of the Revenue .until the iixth of Mav i
next mclufively, for the f up p| y of a| , R f. (
tions, which may lie required during the cur- n
rf •" -
"• - — £
One pound of bread or flour
Hilf £° U 1? °c bCef '°T 3 4 °' f a P ound Pork o,
Half "a gill of rum, brandy or whilky t<
One quart of s a lt,
Two quarts vinegar ( 1
Two pounds soap r Per 100 rations I H
One pound candlis J I m
A P ,!I 2s " miv&sjw I
Just Imported,
In thejhip Abigail, Captain Hortc v, from St
Peterjburgb in Rufta, and new landing at
'' Riifftll's wharf,
HEMP,
«AK IRON,!
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA PUCK,
j And for sale at theiloresof the fubferiber in
Walnut street, Ni>. 22.
r John Donnaldfon.
Aocil 4. dm- w&.tt
s - Pbilad. April 33, 1794.
*** Notifce, agreeably to charter, is here
, y given to the members of the Corporation
t for the Relief of Poor and Dijlreffed Presby
terian Minijlers, and of the Poor and JDtf
j* trejfed llidows and (bildren of Prejbyterian
Minijlers, that a meeting of said corporation
is to take place, on the 33d day of May next,
in the second Presbyterian church in the city
of Philadelphia, at 4 o'clock P. M. for the
dispatch of all fuch.bnfmefs as may. then be
" brought before the board.
ASHBEL GREEN,
t 1 Secretary of the Corporation.
; tuth&s6t
; Treasury Department,
Revenue Office, April i(ith, 1794.
Communications by post of
; otherwise. will bi received by v,.y (if jnfor
> mation at the Office of the Commiflioner 0 f
C theßeveuuefrom perfoos willing t 0 lupply iron
Caii„on, Cannon Ball, and Shells, for the for
tifications and Ships of War. the fiinefs 0 f
the metal for cannon, and the capacity of ih c
• founders in ftnelting, in preparing and mix
ing (he metal, and in carting aud boring th c
cannon (which are to be cast fondly) will re
quire to be particularly stated.
S jni'ar communications \vii.l a lso be receiv
ed fiom any persons willing to lupply live
oak and red cedar limber for the confirmation
of thefhips of war. Difiereiji plans of pio
curing and supplying the fame may be propos
ed. J tie convenience of the fi.uation in te
gaid to navigation, and the state of the timber
whciher aiready fallen or hereafter lobe cut.
will require to'be noticed.
All the necessary particulars in regard to
theffe-vcial articles which are wanted, will be
lpecified it contrails intended to be grounded
in part on the information, which is hereby
fought.
April 17. tu>th&s2W.
The Ground Plan
OF THE
City and Suburbs
OF
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM ACTUAL S-IfRVET*
IT is with plea All e that the punlifher has to
inform hiifubferibersaajd the public in gene-
Tal, that the plate s now under the hands of
the engraver, and in greater forwardnefs than
was at fitft contemp.atjed. At thcfaiue time
he oeigs leave to r mind them, th t fublcrip
t.on papers areftill open at moftof the noted
book-fto.es in the city j and that he hopes
the whole of them to be enabled to so.in
such a refpeftable ca.aJogue of names, as will
dn a ciedit to the work, a s well as afford a
re :o,iab(e encouragement to the undertike-r
Thole who are dciirousof further infuima
tV9 areittjuejled to call on
Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, Market iireet.
A P ril '* mfcthtf
Just Published,
In one handsome volume, umo. Price 5s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Second
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
■Duties which it impales.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
1 eylerian Society at Haarlem.
Corrected and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LA WHENCE BROWN,
Profeffor of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
a 'fl 1 and Ecclesiastical History :
trech?' the EnglMh Chuidi at V.
A fe. l e'n,Uun Per ad COmmU ° em utiMtaten > af
rr-snJ 1 * A ™*"<>n Edililn!™'
. I HE grand principle of Equality, if right-
'r " °" >y baf ' S °" w * th
.■ justice, la<;ied order, and perfe<?t
Iw'n/r 1 ' b f iU ' and P e,n ' a "cnt
effav arr'h T ° f » I ** l »'WtQd in this
ellay, at the fame time that it reprelles the
nfolence of office, the tyranny of pride id
nioVforT,' ° °PP reffio "5 confirms, in
oft forcible manner the necessity of fnhor
ZTy"' t,,e l ust s o/.rl^;
bands of society Hmit IT, ~ 0 0,? " i »g the
every n atlir;l i ' j maintains mviolate,
draw's m^:rctfe,TeryTociL!L dlfti ': a ' Un -
SOT oui and
tu&ftf
1
The Public are cautioned, to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills ef
■ the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of tue Bunk of Nopth -America,
federal of which have appeared in circulation
'within a few days past ; they are a good ge
neral imitation of ihe genuine bills, hut may
be distinguished .by the following
mark S.
Five Dollar Bills of the Batik of the
United States.
ALL that have «ppearfcd have the letter F
for their Alphabetical Mark. ' t
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter anfl it take-, the ink more freely than
' the genuine papep.
The O. in the word Company j s ftiaHef
than the M. and other letters of that word
so that a line extended from the top of ihe'o'
to touch the tap of the M. would extend cor.'
fiderably above the range of the whole word"
In the word United the letters are narrow*
erand closer together than the reft of the bill"
The i and /in the word promise are not
parallel, the f inclining much more iorwaiJ
than the
engraving is badly cxecuted,the ftrokrs
ot all the 1 Letters are stronger and the devi c
in Hiemargin particularly isroucii coarser ii, d >
appears darker than in the true [jills. Som
at the counterfeits bear date in j-gi Whe■
as the Bank was not in operation till Dece^
oer, and no five dollar bills were issued
ihat year. '
twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
IS- >or their alphabetical mark.
They are printed o t a paper nearly fi m i| ar
to that of tlie couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above d.-fenbed; the engraving is beUei exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ao
pe;u ance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through llle word Twcn
t\, 111 Cue body ot the bill, are in number thir
teen in the genuine b Us, and but twelve in
the counterfeit s.
The word Company is'much like the fame
void in the Five Dollar B lls as defer ibed a
bove, the o being lefsihau the m, and ..then
ioilovyirtg.
There in no stroke to the t inilifc word North
wheels in tha genuine bills the flroke is well
defined.
The letters cut in the word Tmcnh, to the
letMiand at tie bottom, do no: come down to
the line, hut are so cut to give an irregular
ar,pearwi.ee to the word, the and the* go.
tng below them.
The figadturc J Nixon, ha t * the appear
ance ol b(i"K written win lawb-black' a.,d
o. , ana differs trom o:her inks ufetl in
printing the bills and the caihier's figuature.
It is fuppoft-d thrfc forgeries were' commuted
■11 loineof ihe Southern States, as all the cou.u
terleUS thai have appeared, have come from
thence, and two jiWous have been apr.ehend- 1
e ', ,n Virginia,on suspicion ot being the auiW '
of hem.
' rcward °- ONE ■ THOUSAND DO I. LARS
■ *y' be P a,d to Pe»fon or P,-rfon- who (ha.l
f d^ co " r and P'ofccutc 10 conviction the several
1 ofThem'V tlie following defcripnons or any
The perlon or persons, who manufactured
I th %P a P er °P w Wch the Bills Jie p, i„, e d.
; plated P "° r P Cl ' ons > who engraved tlx
The or primers, ®f the bills.
anv other" "'T as 3 P rloc! f"l in
,e a " d —
Philadelphia, March 28, 17
April 22, 1 794 ,
Other counterfeit bills
"n drc^lat l io°i!. the U " iledState,: have appeared
I J R h f d '™ mi 'iation is of TWENTY DOL
terß alphabetical mark is the let-
dift ' ngl " a ' ed ir °™ the genu
ine by the following MAUKS :
renH '\ f,aper of the counte, feits is of a more
TenuiL T, 3nd furface tlra »
tZ 131 6 ' Sn - water mark in fieii.
true bin ette A e ' the Word Cafllier > »>
counterii'r K° ng y ™ Tke(, > whe '" s inthe
(Iroke P ■?' I 6 whfl,e tetter ' s 3 fine hair
troke, evidently an uofinilhed state. The
and t-lw. w '" d demand, is bartly formed
T r ,e WOrd jli done . and there is no
genuine biiflT M there is the
the t'afr " 13 ' dev ' ce j -is much daiker in
the 111 id» r l4 '! th f § enui " e bills owing to
being coarser, much nearer J
nierouf nfeqUent, ' V ««-
view ' 1 erence ft'"ikesiheeyeatfiift
nnT h T fiTc® reward of ON E THOUSAND
Droferiii-I ' W,il be Paid for apprehending, &
" '"j;*; 0 conviction the several ab.,ve
S.l^sthis, as to
the last described bills.
TidOiVlAS WILLING, Pwfident
of the Bunk United States.
JOH'N NIXON, President of the
Bank of North America. '
By order of the Committees of the IJef
pcftive Boards.
CC/" This Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement—The Subscription
encreafes daily—-Ad-uertifing Favors are (
Jo tcitecl—TU/e ccmjlitute an efferttial hem
in aitmoi/Hug the Debit fide of the Account.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 3
South Fourth-Street. V