ji ' . » .. ' . . ...
It is Requcfted,
THAT no person will supply any articles
for [he life of the New Them re, without an
order in writinp, tigneri bv ourselves, or Sam
uel Anderfon, for us.
WIGNiLL &. REINAGLE.
May 30. d T f.
All pcrfons who have any de
manfls upon the New Theatre, are request
ed to lend in t:ieir accounts to No. 804, in
Arclirtrett, near fiighth ftieet, as soon ai
convenient.
WIGNELL & REimGLE.
_ May 3". dtf.
To-Morrow Morning,
will be landed near Walnut ftieet whaif,from
011 boaid ti)e schooner Madison, Jas. Par
roik, naftcr, trom MALAGA.
Sweet Mountain WINE,
111 quarter casks
Spit fhel]ed Almonds in iacks
Muscatel Railins, in jars and
Bk)om Do, in quarter barrels,
A few 7 inch gafs Gardes __ '
AND FOR SALE BY
PETER KUHN.
J"-'g 2 . d6t
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY and FRENCH
BURR STONES,
FOR SALE BY
Gurney and Smith.
May 14. d
JAMAICA RUM,
LANOiNtj at Hamilton's wharf, above
the Drawbridge, out of the ftiip Bacchus
Ccpt. Vanneman, from Jamaica,
FOR SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT.
May 16. d
CcngreJ's o£ the United States,
vVOF?It' Tucf t ay M °y l Z' h > '794-
Of h'r kl i' Manal
ber nixt, lhew cause to the Senate, why To
much ot the grants of land to them the said
RutuS Putnam, ManafTah Cutler, Robert
Oliver and Griffin Green, pursuant to an A&
eutitlfd u An adl authorizing the grant and
conveyance of certain lands to the Ohio Com
pany of aifociates," shall not be declared
void, as may interfere with and be fpfficient
to fatisfy the claims of" the French settlers
at Galliopolis.
Oroered, that the delivery of a copy of
the above order to Ruf'us Putnam, Manaffah
, Culler, Robert Oliver, or Griffin Gfeen, and
the publication of the fame, one iiiofirh, in
one of ihe Gazettes printed in this City, shall
bt deemed (ufiicienl notice thereof.
Extract from the journals of Senate.
Attest,
SAM. A. OTIS, secretary.
May 14. lltl .
Guthrie's Geography improved.
THE fubferiptiftn so; this work on the ori
ginal terms, of twelve dollars and the bind
ing, will be ( £lofed this day—and on Monday
the luofcription will open at fourteen dollars,
excluftve of the price of binding.
The new maps added to this edition are
twenty one ; anions which are those of Nfw-
Hampfliire, Massachusetts, Connecticut,
llliode-Ifland, Vermont, New York, New
Jerfcy, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
\ uginia, Kentucky, North Carolina, the
Gene flic e Government, South Carolina, and
Georgia. Thele maps have never been given
in any former fy.ftem of Geography, and, it
is hoped, would alone be fufficient to entitle
this work to a preference to any other edition
of Guthrie.
N. B. The map of the United States,
winch is compiling by Mr. S niuel Lewis,from
the refpeftive state maps; will be far more
complete than any one yet publiilied, and be
printed on two large sheets of paper, nearly
the fiz'. 1 of the late Mr. Murray's map.
May 31 d
" FOR SALE,
BY MAThEW CAREY, No. 118.
Mai ket-Street,
An LlTay on Slavery,
Dcfigtfed to exhibit in a new point of view
"setters on motals, indu/ry, and the beau of
Jociety. Some tads and calculations are oflercd
1° j r< n- C l^. e la^or °fjreehffn- to be much more
produclwc than that ot Jlavcs ; that countries aie
»ic , powerful and happy, i n proportion as the
abonng people enjoy the fruits of their own
n >r ' 311 the n<ciflaiy conclusion, that
kavery is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
xebruary f
1 Lady WalterftonT,
EdwArd Broock, Master.
BURTHEN 170,0 barrelsj fiails'faft, and is
in corapleat order to take in a cargo immedi
ately.
Also for Sale or Charter,
Two New SHI PS of the burthen of 240 tons
1 each. For terms apply to
JOSEPH SIMS,
Who has for /ale,
Madeira and Sherry Wines,
of the firft quality. Brandy, Red and Pale
Jesuits Bark, & c . &c.
' June 2 d
For
John Vanneman, Master.
TO fai| with all convenient speed, having
n{" her cargo already engaged.
For freight or paliage apply to the master
board, or
THOMAS iff jtHN KETLAND.
June 3. d
For Charter,
0 India IJlands,
The new sloop
A B B Y,
Samuel Eames, Master.
SHE is a staUnch good vdffel, in compleat
order, ar,d will carry about 900 barrels. For
terms apply to thecapain on board at Chef
nut street wharf, or to
JOSEPH ANTHONT & SON.
June 2 cl6t
Wanted for Europe,
iSfev. Ut f'"^' tl s
Of about 150 tons.
AN D'
A Coodfaji failing Schooner or Brig about
ninety Tons,
B Y
LOUIS OSMONT,
No. 117, north Secondfirett.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
A few Invoices of
Artificial Flowers, Feathers,
Fans, Handsome Looking Glasses framed.
Window Glass of every size,
Received by tbe brig Amiable Sophia, Capt.
Lozvther, via New York.
Spermaceti Candles, Claret and Burgundy in
cases, Champaignt Wine, all to be fold by
Invoice,
Also jujl Received,
A few Barrels
Frelh Superfine Flour.
Do. Ship Bread, and a parcel of Prime Rice.
June 3. d.
Treasury of the United States.
ALL Persons who are inclined to difpo(e of
either of the different species of the Stocks ot
the United States, are hereby notified, that
Propolals will be received at the Treasurer's
office No. 71 Chefnut street, at any time un
til Friday the 13th instant at 12 o'clock,
SAMUEL MEREDITH
Agent for the Trustees for
the reduction of the Public
Debt.
June 4th. i 79- d. t. 12.
Just Published,
By Bf.njamin Johnson, and fold at his
Bookflore, No. 147, Market flreet,
The Life of Dr. Franklin,
with a linking likeness, executed in a master
ly m"nner by Thackara and .Vallancc, price
five (hillings.
The Keady Reckoner, or Tiadds' Sure
Guide, 3/9
The Young Book keeper's AlTiftant,
The Chridian, a poem, by Charles Craw
ford,. 2f4
Efop*s Fables, 4JB
Swan's British Architect, 37/6
Fame's ditto 30/
Town and Country Builder's Afliftant. 22/6
In the press, and iuill bepublijtxd in a fe<w
days, and fold as above,
Reed; ions and Maxims, by
William Penn, with llis advice to his chil
dren, 4JB.
6 m#. 2, 1794. 111 &w 113?
A PLAIN COOK. %
WAN 1 fcD a middle aged single Womanj
who un.ieritai dsplain Cooking; to lucb a one
the befi wages will be given.
Apply t the Printer^
Ma) 3jl l ot
Medical Books.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon, at the Stone House,
No .41, south Seco d Jlre et,
VOL. 11.
Medical Inquiries
OBSER V AT lONS.
By BENJAMIN RUSH, M. D.
ProTestor of <helnftitutcs of Medicine, and
of ClinicAl Practice in the Univer
sity of Pennsylvania.
containing
1. An inquiry into the influence of physical
c*u<e* npoft the moral faculty.
2. An inquiry iuio the effefti of fpiritoils li
quors upon the human body, and their in
fluence upon the happiness of i'ocipty.
3. Ad inquiry into the causes and cure of the
puimonaiy consumption.
4. Obfctvafit.ns on the fyraptums and cure of
dropsies.
5. An Inquiry into the causes and the cure of
internal dropsy of the brain.
6. An account of the measles, as they ap
peared in Philadelphia, in the year 1789.
7. An account of the influenza, as it appeal
ed in Philadelphia in the years 17^9,1790,
and j 791.
8. An inquiry into the causes of the increase
of bilious and remitting feveis, in Penn
sylvania.
9. An inquiry into the causes and cure of fore
1 gs.
10. An.account ttf the state of the body and
m»nd in did with observations upon
its dtfeafes and their remedies.
Pi ice one dollar and a quarter unbound, or
one dollar and a half neatly bound.
Xi-LCTUJLCctI 1 i dIi±dCUOTI3
OF THE
College of Phylicians of Philadelphia.
V O L. I—P A R T 1.
Puce 01.e d«Jlar in boards.
A Treatise on the Diseases of
Children.
With general d;re6tions for the management
ot Infants from the birth, adapted for
theujeof ai,d priv, te families.
By Michael Underwood, M. D.
Liccuti ate of Mmwilcry in the Royal Col
lege of Phy (icians in 1 o ydon, and
Physician of the Biitilh
L^iug-in-Hofpiial.
Price one Dqflar«
This is acknowledged to bq ihe best book
which has been published on the and
is cakulaied for the use of parefl s, nurses,
and private lamilies, as well as for physicians
—.The two volumes handsomely punted in
one, and iht price only about one thiid of
what ihe imported copies fell for.
The Edinburgh New Dispensatory, two
dollars.
, Syftt'm of Surgery, extrafled from tbe
works of Benjamin Bell, by Dr. Wateis, 2
dols. 50 cents.
SyJtem. of Anatomy, cx'rafttd from the
Encyclopaedia, with 12 copperplates, 2 dols.
Syftcin of CJicmiftry, extracted from the
Encyclopaedia, exh:bitioga view ot tbe pio
grefs of ih- fcienc.e, and the different systems
which hjve bee 11 published, 2 dols.'so cents.
Bipwn's Elcmeuts of Medicine, 2 dols.
67 ceAts.
T. Dobfon has in the Prefs 9
An edition of ihe Medical and Philo.fophi
cal Commentaries of Edinburgh. Twov »|_
umes are printed in one at 2 dollars and 50
cents per volume; he has nearly finUhed tiie
fi'v' fir ft volumes, which contain the firft ten
volumes c-f the European (dition, which fell
for two dolbrs each. Nine volumes will in
clude eighteen European volumes, which
w ill briog the publtcaiion up to the present
time.
Li.'eezifije for fate a confiderabte number of
Medical Books, viz.
Cullen'a Pratt (ct, Materia Medica, Phyfiy
ology, and Synopsis. Bell's Surgery, 6 vols,
or 4 vols, da. on Ulcers, Buchan's Dotpeftic
Medicine, Surgery, Chefeiden's A
nctomy, Hunter on the Venereal, Swedeea
ver on do. Rollo on Well India Difeafrs ;
Rigby on Uterine Hem'nhage, Ham 1 o.i'»
outlines of the theory and pra&ice of Mid
wifery, with or without plates; do. on the
management of Femali complaints. Mease
on Hydrophobia,
March 5.
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglhcads and in cases of £0 bottles cach.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine j
MADEIRA, '
• In pipes, hoglhcads arid quarter calVs,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front ltreet.
Jan. 2,1794. dtf
MADEIRA, I
SHERRY, I
PORT, I WINES of the firft quality
LISBON, & | 17
TENERIFFE J
Old Jamaica Spirit, Antigua and Weft India
Rum.
Coniac, French Peach Brandies
Claret and Port Wine of a superior quality
in cases.
Wins Cyder and Vinegar, in pipes and hhds.
Corks in Bales, t Havaiiual> Segais in Boxes.
Philadelphia Porter, in Calks and Bottles.
London do. in clo. do.
Philadelphia Ale and Beer in do. do.
London do. in do. do. and
Cyder :n barrels and bottles, preparedfor ex
portation or immediate use,
FOR SALE BY
Benjamin \y. Morris,
The corner of Dock and Pear Jireets,
Where he has provided luitablc itores and
vaults, for the reception of
WINE S, &c.
, Which he proposes to store or dispose of on
commission
Capcainsof veiTels and others fuppliedwith
any of the aboveLIOUORS bottled, and lea
Itores ill gene al put up.
May 9 . tu&f2ni
UNITED STATES.
AUGUSTA, (Geotgia) May 10.
" James Seagrove, Esq. fuperintend
partment of the United States, arrived
here on the 3d instant, accompanied with
several Creek chiefs—he has been five
months in their nation on the million of
peace."
In the fame paper is contained, a talk
from the Crsek nation to the governor of
New-Orleans—a talk from the whole of
the chiefs of the Upper and Lower Creek
nation affemblcd at tint Cuffetah, on the
18th of April, 1794, a talk from the
white lieutenant of Oakfufkee, Mad dog
of Tuckabatchies and Alexander Cornell,
who were anthorifed by the Creek
to fend the fame to William Panton*
Merchant, in Penfacola.
By these talks, it appears* that there
was a general meeting of the chiefs of the
•Creek nation, about the middle of March
last, at which Mr. Seagrove, and thirty
fjeven tifihp prmcajjaLt-ln'ofc of the Chcio- -—
kees, attended, for the purpose of fettling
all the disputes and mifutidet (landings bev
tween their nations and -the Americans.
That they are well pleased with the talk de
livered to them by Mr. Seagrove, and are
determined to live in peace and friendfhip
with the United States—that they rejefit
the talk sent them by the Spanifli govern- '
ors, inviting them to join in a war against
the Frenchmen and Americans, who may
be coming down the Miffilippi to attack
the Spanifli territories, and do not wifli
to hear any such talks in future, as they
diftraft their people and dilturb their
peace and hunting.
They inform Mr. Panton that they have
always been injurious to their peace and
true interests, and that they are determi
ned to have no more of this wicked ad
vice—they also advise him to mind his
trade, and not trouble himfelf with their
public concerns.
Nineteen Cherokee chiefs arrived here
yelterday from the Cherokee country by
the way of Columbia. They were cho
sen by the free fuffrages of the nation
affcmbled, and are delegated by it, to
conclude a lalling peaee with the United
States; for which purpose they will fail
in a few days for Philadelphia, to treat
with the Prelident of the United States
on that important million.
\CONGRESS.
■JIOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
The Speech of Mr. Smith, fS. C.) on
the motion to finite out the Jixth fedim cf
the bill, For the ftunijlmcnt of certain
crimes againfl the United States, which
foot! as follows, to.
" And be it further cnadled. That it
(hall not be lawful to fell, within the U
nitcd States, any veflel or goods captnrcfl
from 1 prince or state, or from the sub
je£ts or citizens of a prince or state, with
whom the United States are at peace,
which veflel or goods (hall hare been cap
tured by any other foreign prince or state,
or by the fubjefts oi citizens of such
prince or state ; unless such veflel and
goods (hall have been firft carried into a
port or place within the territory of the
prince or state to which the captors be
long, but such veflels and goods (hall be
carried out of the United States, by those
who (hall have brought them' in. And
the sale of any veflel or goods prohibited
as aforefaid, (hall be utterl/ void.".
This question ought to be considered
under two points Of view, I ft. As to the
right of France derived from the treaty ;
2d. As to the expediency of admitting the
pra£tiee, independently of any existing
right. I ft. As to the right. This must
result either from th<; words of the treaty,
or from such strong implication as cannot
be refilled. It is evident that the right
of France to fell prizes in our ports is
not given by the terms of the treaty.—
The only -articles from which it can be
pretended to be derived-are the 17th and
22(1. The 17th art. is in these words,
" It (hall be lawful for the (hips of war
of either party, and privateers, freely to
carry whitherfover they please the (hips
and goods taken frpm their enemies, &c.
they may hoist fail at any time, and de
part and carry their prizes to the places ex
prefTed in their commiflions, which the
commanders of such (hips of war (hall be
obliged to (hew, &c." The true con
ftrudlion of this articleis the very reyerfeof
the right contended for ; it is a permif
lion to conduct whitherfover they please,
the (hips and gooijs laken from the ene
my, without paying any dyty : It is evi
fTOt
on the contrary, a departure to some other
place, always to be exprelTed in their com
mission, where their validity is to be fi
nally adjudged. And this conftrudlion is
given to the article by Mr. Jefferfon, the
Secretary of State, in his correspondence
with Mr. Morris our Minister in France,
and with Mr Genet, page 63, 67. where
he fays, The article does not give the
right at all," and again, " The admission
lo fell here the prizes made by France on
her enemies is unJUpulated in our treaties
and unfounded in her own pratlfe or in I
that of other nations, as we believe."
* No right can be deduced from the 22d
article but by conftru&ion and implica
tion ; the terms of that are, It (hall
not be lawful for any foreign privateers,
&c. to fit their (hips, &c. to fell what
thty have, taken, nr jn any other manner
whatsoever to exchange their (hips, mer
chandize or any other lading, See."
From this negative ftipiuation as to the
enemies of France, an affirmative right is
attempted to be inferred in favor of
Fiance herfelf; but the inference is a
falfe one. Here I again recur to the
authority of the former Secretary of State,
whose reasoning with refpett to the right
of fitting out privateers applies to this
cafe, the right to fell prizes under this arti
cle (landing precisely on the fame foot
ing as the right to Jit out privateers. In
page 60 of the printed cyrrefpondence,
Mr. Jefferfon fays, after quoting the
v word*, of the article, « translate this from
the general terms in which it here stands
into the special cafe produced by the pre
fcnt war," privateers not belonging to
I ranee or the United States, and having
commiflions from the enemies of one of
them, " are, in the present state of things,
Bntifli, Dutch and Spanish privateers
substituting these then for the equivalent
term, it will (land thus,"" It (hall not
b--lawful for Britilh, Dutch or Spamfh
privateers to fit their (hips in the ports of
th- United States."
Is this an express permifiio'n to France
to do it ? Does the negative to the ene
mies of France, and silence as to France
herfelf, imply an affirmative to France ?
Certainly not; it leaves the question, as
to France, open and free to be decided
according to circumstances, and if the par- ai
i ties> had meant an affirmative itipularibn, oi
they would have provided for ft exprefsiy ; vv
they would never have left lo important a ti
point to be inferred from mere lilence or
implication. Suppose they bad delired to v
llipulate a refulal to their enemies, btft u
noticing to themselves, what form of ex- v
prefiion would they have used ? Certainly t
the one they have used, an express ftipu- b
lation as to their enemies, and (ilence as" 1
to themselves. And such an intention cor- It
responds not Only with the words but the t
cireumttances oi the times. It was of va- 1
lue to fiach pttrty to exclude its enemies i
from arming in the ports of the other, and (
could in no cafe embarrass them. They 1
therefore stipulated so far mutually ; but c
each might hp embarrassed by permitting t
the other to arm in its ports •, they there- t
fore would not stipulate to permit that." i
This reasoning proved so conclijfively the <
non-existence of the right to fit out priva- :
teers in our ports, that the French go- ]
vernment withdrew their claim, inftrudled :
their new minister to express their appro- i
bation of the steps pursued by our execu
tive, and ordered him to recall all the,
commifiions of privateers illegally fitted
out. Now there is not an argument againil 1
the to fit out privateers which does
not apply with equal force against that of
felling prizes ; the fame words are used in
the article for both cases, and no inferehce
can be drawn in favor of the one which
may not equally be drawn in favor of the
other. The right to fit out privateers
haying been altogether abandoned by
France, it would be not a little furpnjMng
that the right to fell prizes should now find
advocates in our councils.
Admitting, that, by a forced construc
tion of either of the two above mentioned
articles of the treaty, an implication might
arise favorable to the right, yet if the itep
ping beyond the line of ftritt obligation in
favot of one belligerent power, be deemed
a departure from the line of neutrality, it
may well be asked, (hall we hazard the
blessings of peace and fubjeft ourselves to
the calamities of war by inference, impli
cation or confti uction ?
But let it be conceded that either or
both the articles import in. the' cleared
manner the right contended for, I am rea
dy to prove that the treaty quo ad that
grant, would be void and of no effefi. .
nited States was founded on principles of
perfect reciprocity; we are not bound by
any itipulation, which was intended to be
mutual, if France was not equally bound
by it ; but France at the time of entering
into this treaty, was restrained by antece
dent and exijling treaties from granting to
the United States the right of felling their
prizes in the ports of France; the United
States would therefore be absolved from
the ilipulation, supposing it to exist.
These several points can be clearly esta
blished.
The preamble to the treaty in question
has these llrong expreflions—" His most
chriitian majesty and the United States
have judged, that the said end could not
be better obtained than by taking for the
basis of their agreement, the mnjlper/eft
equality-and reciprocity,, and by carefully
avoiding all these burdensome preferences
which are usually sources of debate, em
barrafTment and discontent, by leaving alio
each party to make, refpedting commerce
and navigation, those interior regulations
which it shall find most convenient to it
felf, and by founding the advantage of
commerce folcly upon reciprocal utility."
It is laid down by Vattel, page 302,
that 'a sovereign already bound by a treaty
cannot make others contrary to the firft ;
the things about which he has entered in
to engagements are no longer at his dis
posal; if it happens that a pojlerior treaty
is found, in foncie point, to contradi<sl one
that is more ancient, the new treaty is null
■with refpea to that point, as disposing of a
thing that is no longer in the power of
him who appears to dispose of it."
Ihe treaty of Utrecht, between France
and England in the year 1713, Itipulated
in the 15th art. that, "it (hall not be
lawful tor any foreign privateers, &c. who
have commissions from any prince or state
in enmity with either nation, to fit their
fhips.n the ports of one or the other of
' T » P r rtl "' "-T'" what 'h
taken, &c » In the event then of a war
between the United States and Great Bri
tain, France being neutral, we fliould have
from r nr a,nCd thC treat y of Utrecht,
, from felling our prizes in the ports of
recprocity, which is the ba
| thc trea 'y» is done away, and vre
ire now called upon for 3 performance on
) U r part, df a mutual stipulation, from
sfjiich the other contracting power is by
treaty and the law of nations absolved.
If it be said that the treaty of Utrecht
was, on account of Intervening wars, not
in force at the time our treaty with France
was entered into. I will remark in reply
that the treaty of Utrecht was recognized
by France, and revived by" the treaty ot
Paris in 1763, and that it is an acknow
ledged maxim of the law of nations that
the revival at a peace of at treaty which
has been suspended by a state of war, re
llores the contra&ing parties to the
(ame rights as if the treaty had never
been suspended. Moreover, in the treaty
of Paris in 1763 it rs said, " that the
treaty of Utrecht ill all serve as a basis to
that treaty, and is renewed and confirmed
in the bed form, as if it were there insert
ed word for word, so that it is to be ex
a£Uy observed in future, &c. and the said
parties declared that they will not fuffer
any privilege, favor or indulgence to fub
fiit, contrary to the above treaty, See."
But what is itill more conclusive the
veiy treaty between Franceand the United
States refers to the treaty of Utrecht as
being in full force at that time ; in the
1 oth article, the United States are ref
ftrained from disturbing the right of fiftie
ry, belonging to France "on that part
of the coast of Newfoundland which is
designated by the treaty oj Utrecht,
npr in the rights, relative, to all and cach
of thi ides which belong to his most Chris
tian Majesty, the whole conformable to
the true sense of the treaties of Utrecht and
Paris.'" France was at peace with Eng
land in Feb. 1778, when our treaty was
made, the treaty of Utrecht was confe
qnently at that time in full force. But -
. France was likewise restrained from grant
ing us this right by the terms of the Fa
mily compaEt wit.h Spain, which was uri
queftionably in full force at the time of
our treaty.
The remarks of Mr. JefFerfon on the
fubjeft of fitting out privateers, are so
applicable and pointed, that I (hall again
quote him ; page 60, he fays, " Let us
go back to the state of things in France
when this treaty was made, and we lhall
find feveial cases, wherein France could
not have permitted us to arm in her ports
frWe might have ad(}ed. gr ojir
Spain. We know that by the treaties be
tween France and Spain, the former could
not permit the enemies of the latter to
arm in her ports. It was honest in her
therefore not to deceive us by such a sti
pulation. Suppose a war between these
states and Great Britain. By the trea
ties between France and Great Britain,
in force at the Jignature of ours, we could
not have been permitted to arm, in the
ports of France. She could not then
have meant m this article, to give us such
a, right. She has manifefted the fanje
sense of it again, in her subsequent treaty
with England,.made eight years after our's,
flipulating in the 16th Art. of it as in
our 22d that foreign privateers, not being
fubjeits 'oj either crown, should not arm
against either in the ports of the other.
It this had amounted to an affirmative fti
pulatiou, that the fubj--&s~of the other
crown might arm in her ports againjl us,
it would have been in diredl contradiction
to her 22d article with us. So that to
give to these negative stipulations an affir
mative effect, is to render them inconfilt
ent with each other, and with goodfaiih ;
to give them only their negative & natural'
effeift is to reconcile thera to one another,
and to good faith, and is clearly to adopt
the fenle in which France herfelf has ex
pounded them. We may justly conclude
then, that the article only obliges us to
refufe this right in the present cafe, to
Great Britain and the other enemie« of
r ranee , it does not go on to give it to
France, either exprcf,ly, 0 r by implicati
on ; we may then reful'a it."
(To be continued.)
From the' European Magazine for March
1794-
Two Letters from General IVaJhington to
Lord Buchan.
LETTER I.
Philadelphia, May i, 1792.
My Lord, *
I lhould have had the honor of acknow
ledging sooner the receipt of your letter jSth
ot June last, had I not concluded to defer do
ing it till I could announce to you the tranf-
P° rtri ' it > whicl > has been just
by Mr. Robinson (of New-York,)
Who has also undertaken to forward it. The
manner of the execution ef it does no dif
credit, I am told, to the artist; of waofi
fliill favorable mention had been mad? to
me. I was further induced to entnift the
execution to Mr. Robinson, from his having
informed me that he had drawn others for
your Lord (hip, and knew the size which
would best suit yonr collfedtion.
I accept with feniibility and with
tion the tignificant present of the box* which
accompanied your Lordlhip s letter.
Jn yielding the tribute due from every
lover of mankind to the patriotic and heroic
virtues of which it is commemorativb, t ul
timate as I ought the additional value whidi
it derives from the hand that sent it, and
my obligation for the fentimenis that induced
that transfer.
I will, however, a(k that you will exempt
me from compliance with the request rela
ting to its eventual destination.
In an attempt to excite your wish in this
particular, I (hould feel embarr aliment from
a just comparison of relative pretentions, and
(hould fear to risk injustice by so marked a
preference. With fentimenis of the truest
esteem and consideration, I remain your
Lordlhip's most obedient servant,
G'. WASHINGTON.
Earl of Buchan.
L E T T E R 11.
Philadelphia, April 1793.
My Lord,
The favorable wi(hes which your Lord
lhip has exprefled for the prosperity of this
young and rising country, cannot but be
gratefully reci»ived by all its citizens, and
every lover of it; one mean to the contri
bution of which, and its happiness, is, very
judiciously pourtrayed in the following.words
of your letter, " to be little heard or in the
great word of politics." These words, I
can allure your Lordlhip, are exprellive of
my L-ntiments on this head; and I believe
it is the lincere wilh of United America, to
have nothing to do with the political in
trigues or the squabbles of European nations;
but on the contrary, to exchange commodi
ties, ahd live in peace and amity with all the
inhabitants of the earth : and this I am per
suaded they will-do, if rightfully it can be
done. To administer juflicelo, and receive
it from every power they are connected with,
will, I hope, be always found the most pro
minent feature m the administration of this
country; and I flatter myfelf that nothing
(hort bf imperious neceflity can occation a
breach with any of them. Under l'uch a
system, if we are allowed to pursue it, the
agriculture and mechanical arts —the wealth
and population of these states will increase
with that degree of rapidity as to baffle all
calculation, and mutt :aa.]dea your
Lordlhip can, hitherto, have eiUerfJnwtrw*
the occalion. To evince that oui , "l ~
tfceTincuy- ol' fending you the plan of a new
city, situated about the centre of the union
of these states, which is defined for the
permanent feat of the government: and we
are at this moment deeply engaged, and far
advanced in extending the inland navigation
of the river ) on whieh it stands,
and the branches thereof, through a tract of
as rich country for hundreds of miles as any
in the world. Nor is this a folkary instance
of attempts of this kind, although it is the
only one which is near completion and in
partial ule. Several other very important
ones are commenced, and little doubt is en
tertained that in ten years, if left undilUirb
ed, we (hall open a communication by water
with all the lakes northward and weltwaid
of us, with which we have territorial con
nexions: and an inland, in a few years more,
from Rhode-Ifiand to Georgia incluiively,
partly by cuts between the great bays,and
founds, and partly between the islands and
fand-bmks, and the main, from Albemarle
Sound to the River St. Mary's. To these
may also be added, the erection of bridges
over considerable rivers, and the commence
ment of turnpike-roads, as further indicati
ons of the improvement in hand.
* A box made of the oak that afforded
fhglter to Wallace after the battle of Falkirk.
Foreign Intelligence.
BRUSSELS, April 8.
" Since the arrival of the Courier from
Vienna, on the 2d instant, we know for
certain that the King of Prtiflia with
draws his troops from the army of the
Rhine, that is to fay, the 25,000 men
mainthined by him during the la ft cam
paign, besides the contingent which the
ot Ratifbon promised to pay
monthly—a promise never kept, now dis
puted, and in the late fittings of the Diet
referred for consideration till peace (hall be'
restored The King .of Prussia, there
tore, will furinfh only his contingent as
elector of Brandenburg for the pefent
campaign ; and it is yet uncertain whether
or not he will gi ve the 15,000 men with
which he is engaged to aid Great Britain,
& the; tales General in certain cases beimr
very id defiged in the treaty of alliance.
" 1 his unexpected falling off has fo
dilconcerted the intended plans that nil
open,n ons have buen for feme time at *« Great pains wefe taken by the count
de Srrdrouin, timing his refukiice in Lon
don, toperfuade Engird to lake Pruflian
iroopsinto British pay, but without suc
cess. Couriers are constantly palling be
tween the Cabinets of Berlin, Vienna and
London : and the alljes are (training every
nerve to prevent the " enemy from availing
themselves of the crisis.
« A letter ha! been lately circulated
from the Kingiof Prussia to the Prince of
Saxe Cubourg, informing him that his
troops will be withdrawn gradually from
the banks of the Rhine, that the French
nlay not take advantage of their retreat.
Some of our politicians who are ignorant
of the late conferences and the debates of
the Diet, imagine that this was only a
feint to draw the French into a snare. it
is, however, but too certain that the
Priiuian troops ex'pe&ed to reinforce the
combined army in the Netherlands, have
aftnally receivedorders to march for Cleves
and Weltphalin. / ■
" On the sth infiarif,' Count Met
ternich communicated to the States of
Brabant the intentions of the Emperor
whh relpeiS to his inauguration, which is
to take place in the course of this month.
He is expected here; with the Arch-Duke
Joseph, to-morrow afternoon ; and in a
few days will set out to take the command
of the army.
" The Count de Trautmanfdorf is ex
petted this evening ; and great fears are
entertained tfiat they; will be reinstated in
the minillry. >
" The return of Maria Christiana to the
government, whom the bulk of the people
conlider as the cause of all their misfor
tunes, is even dreaded. She is said to
have written letters fiom Bonn t.Q princess
De Gave re and the countess De Maldig
hera, alluring them that {he lhall soon
have the pleasure of feeing them at Bruf
l'els.
" On the sth, in the morning, a courier
arrived with the news that the English
have entirely cleared the environs of St.
Amand of the Republicans.
" The Dutch towards Namur, have
met witli some checks. It is even said
that on the 2d, they* loft part of their can
non. Js'.
" Ourlofs on th? 29th ult. near Cateau,
notwithstanding the official account, was
f>oo aria The battalion
of Br«chain*Bfe
tyouucled, among Whom Were (even offi
< . .
♦ " From the quantitieqof Artil
lery and ammunitk»tf |)a(srig to thc vilay,
one would imagine ft intended tij||pttege
to all the French fbrtfeflcs at
" In the action near Werwick, the day
Wore yelterd#y," between the English and
French, about 120 men were killed on
both fides without any advantage, except
that the British chafleurs distinguished
themselves by their valour.
"P. S. This morning a grand deputa
tion from the States of Brabant set out to
receive the empeior, who will deep to
night at Havre ; to-morrow at four in the
afternoon he will make his folemu entry as
emperor and king. At the gate of Loii
vain, were an amphitheatre and triumphal
arch is erected, he will be revived by the
magiftratei; repair -to the church of St.
Giudule, where Te Dt'um will be sung ;
and thence to the palace to receive the usu
al compliments.
i wenty-four fqtiadrons of Austrian
cavalry, an J four battalions of Hungari
ans, ate under arms in the city to maintain
order.
' i Lad night, the committee of vigi
lance fe.it away 300 French emigrants,
and other foreigners, most of whom took
the road for England."
UNITED STa
NEW.YORK, June 4.
We have this day received a letter from
London, dated April nth, from which we
make the following extra#.
Ihe last advices from New-York have ex
cited some alarm in our minds, least the pub
lic peace of the two countries Ihould be in
terrupted. The order of Council here of the
6th November last, and the conduct of the
" Wler * we P rrfurae have
elnlr , ground of y° ur present un
f.n"th,j X? ? ° cd & r<sl " tds for fu PP°"
V l g T n,ment wJII make ample
vourvtfrT 1 r P ohations committed upon
your vetTe sunder that order, for it was very
W h aT that measure
here tin ™ot the Se "etar v of State
t "' lnju y to your citizens should
ikn« " ' * effeil of these conciliating
P • we are very anxious to learn from
government. I'erhaps Europe never
law a more affli&ing period than thfe prefen't,
and what farther judgments the governor of
the universe may fee neceflary for our cor
redlion, time only can discover ; we lincerely
hope a speedy reformation among all clafles
of citizens may avert the present calamities.
PHILADELPHIA,
This day a joint committee of both houses
of Congress waited on the President of the
United States, and informed him, that on
Monday next, the public bufmefs would be
finifhed—and that they thou Id then adjourn
tAihe firft Monday in November—pursuant
joint Resolution of the two Houses.
Doiior Priestley arrived at Ne\v York
the 4th instant, in the ihip Sanfom.
Yesterday Mr. Thomas Claxton was
chosen Door keeper of the House of Reprefeii
tatives of the United Sates—and this day Mr.
Thomas dunn, was chosen afliftant Door
keeper.
Married on Thursday last, by the Rev.
J. B. Smith, Mr. George Bellows, to
Mil's. Peggy M'Bride, both of this City <
By Day's Mail.
BALTIMORE, June 5.
Yesterday arrived here, the ship Charles,
Capt. Langford, of Kinglton, Jamaica, a
prize to the French privateer Liberty. She
was captured off Cape Henry, on her pas
sage from Norfolk to Kingston, is laden
with flour, beef, pork, &c. and mounts 10
iron guns.
A schooner called the Delight, from Nor
folk, bound to the Weft-Indies, was also
captured by the Liberty, and may be hourly
expedled.
NOTICE TO MJRINERS.
A Buoy is placed on Smith's Point Shoals,
at the mouth of Patomac, in the Chesapeake
Bay.
Directions.
The Buoy lies'in 5 fathoms water; said
point bears from the' Buoy, W. by N. five
miles—Point Look-Out, N. W. 1-1 N. 7
leagues —Great Wicomico, S. W. 8 miles ;
no danger in being to the east of the Buoy,
and dole to it, is 7 fathoms water.
NORFOLK, May 31.
Capt. Colley arrived here in 46 days froip
by the privateer sloop Britannia, Captain
Seymour, belonging to Bermuda, who treat
ed Capt. Colley with every politeness.—Spoke
also, a veflel from Lilbon, who confirmed
the account of a declaration of war by the
Portuguese against the Algerines. There
had been a number of American velTels
which had undergone their trials at London,
and were acquitted, with the recovery of all
damages.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
MANHEIM, March 27.
Prussia is to fumifh 25,000 rhen to
England as fnbfidiary troops.
UPPER RHINE, March 29.
We are this day informed, that the
Anftrians have retaken Perl from the
French, and that they are beginning to
fortify it.
COBLENTZ, March 29.
We are now this moment informed
that the Prussian* have received or
ders to halt, probably to return to their
former position, or to go iip the Mozelle,
as the French are advancing in considera
ble force in the environs of Treves, as
well as towards Manheim, which latter
city it is said they intend to bombard.
NEUWIED, March 31.
There are every day passing on the left
bank of the Rhine corps of Prufiians, who
are retreating to Cologne. Thus it appears
if they have had counter orders they have
not been general.
BERLIN, March 22.
This morning all the regiments in garrifou
here received orders to set out for the army
of the Rhine. We are allured that the King
is about to aiTcmble an army of 50,000 men
in Westphalia.
PARIS, May 29.
Our letters from Fort-Berreau state, that
the troops of the Republic are still in pofl"-f
---fiori of la Maurienne, the Tarentaife, and
the fort of Mount Cenis, on the summit of
which the Piedmontefe have thrown up a
considerable number of entrenchments, as
well as on Mount St. Bernard. The dispo
sitions of the campaign on our fide seemed
entirely aimed to drive the fubjesfls of the
King of the Monkies from these two import
ant polls ; and with this view, r»ads have
beeu cut and redoubts railed.
'ES.
JUNE J.
LONDON, April- 5. —io.
\
The coaimana of the troops of. the
Germanic Empire has been given to ]Duke
Albert of SaxeTefchen.
Those who, since the commencement
or the French rcvolurion, have attended
to the views,the conduct, and the charac
ter of men in power; of the men who by
the dint of blood and crimes have raised
themselves from the very scum of the peo
ple to the hlgheft offices—thofe, we fay,
who have paid this attention, have fore
feen and predi&ed that these very men,
so soon as they (hould think themselves
secure in the obtainment of the supreme
authority, would enter into a mutual ri
valfhip, despising and contemning each
other, until each party (hould declare an
.open war againlt the other ; which, after
having produced the molt alflidting scenes
of misery, would impress the people with
such horror, as to bring about the re-ef
tablilhment of laws» and a legitimate au
thority.
. The firft contentions were between the
Conilitutionaliftsand Girondilts; and ter
minated by the overthrow and mafiacre
of the authors of the celebrated Consti
tution. The'Girondilts were next sub
dued by the intrigues of the Anafchifts,
and experienced in their turn thfe fate they
had themselves awarded to the Conftitu
tionaliits.
A division soon found its way among
the Anarchists of the mountain ; and Ro
berfpierre the chief of the Septemberizers,
has got rid of Hebert and the old accom
plices of his crimes.
Danton himlelf, the terrible Danton,
has jult been caught in the trap of the
di&ator, whole friendlhip he appears to
have fought, merely to (tab him in secret,
with the greater fafety. In the fall of the
Cordeliers are also implicated Defmoulins,
whom Robeifpicrre once Iheltered from
their attacks; and Phillipeaux, who had
drawn down their vengeance on him, in
consequence of having denounced the
Genet als of the revolutionary army, wh.o
were allied to them.
In die midst of all these contradidtory
fadts, it is some consolation to observe, for
the firft time since the commencement of
the revolution, the molt sanguinary party
falling a facrifice to the one that recom
mends the mare moderate rncafurea.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
SHIP NEWS.
The Mate of a Portuguese {hip ar
rived here yesterday, informs, that they
were boarded on the 12th of April about
300 leagues weft of Madeira, by 2 French
frigates, the Defcill and the Fabrica, be
longing to Nantz, which failed from Brest
the 20th March, and the 21ft they took
the brig Fortitude of Dyfart in Scotland,
Capt. Dobbie ; out of which they took
the crew and afterwards set fire to the
brig;—the 4th of April they captured the
(hip Kitty of Liverpool, Capt. Herbett,
bound to Jamaica ; the 6ih May they
captured the (hip Fame of Briltol, Capt.
Mages, tq Jamaica, about 2 leagues to
the windward of Madeira; and on the
Bth they captured the brig Prince, of
Cork, to the Welt-Indies, 4 leagues N.
of Madeira.'
May 26,, in lat. 38, 14, long. 70, the
Portuguese spoke the (hip Adventure of
Bolton, Capt. Chapman, from Bengal,
out 5 months, which supplied the Portu
guese (hip with provisions, and took from
her 6 Engli(h prisoners, which were sent
from on board the French frigates in order
to carry them to Philadelphia. The Mate
further informs, that they received the
utmost politelefs from the officers of the
French frigates.
The following inward bound velTels lay
at Bombav-Hook yesterday morning, viz.
Ship riarmony, Ofmon, Bordeaux, Pal
lasy Crawford, St. Andrews, Four Friends,
Glenn, Bilboa, the French (loop of war
the Lafca.
A brig from New-York was seen below
New Castle yesterday, inward bound; and
a privateer fqhooner of 10 guns (hewing
Dutch colours, came too last-night at the
Fort.
* Several Post Mailers, at different
* b:
times have forwarded Specie per F oft, to
the Editor of this Gazette—lt is requested
that remittances may be made in Bank bills
in future, or the Specie sent by private con
veyance —The Postage on Specie amounts
to nearly the Sum sent.
. Arrived at New-Tori.
Ship Grace, Armour, Amfterdarn
Jenny, Schermerhorn, Savannah
Capt. Coit, of the ship America, faffed,
through the Downs 31ft March, and put his
letters ashore at Dover.
ADVERTISEMENT.
LETTERS on the fubje&ofthe Waih
ington Lottery, being by mistake repeat
edly addressed to the Commiflioners for the
City of Waihington.
Persons concerned are bereby informed,
that all such (hould be addressed either to
W. Deakinsjun. of Waihington, or to the
Subscriber, The commissioners never hav
ing contemplated any further concern ire
this business, than in their aflent to receive
the"bonds and approve the names of the
managers. The prizes have been paid and
are paying, on demand by W. Deakins,
Waihington, Peter Oilman, Bolton, and
by the Subscriber.
For the Lottery No. 2, the securities al
ready given will be retained by the com
miflioners, or transferred by them at their
option to the bank of Columbia ; and the
commiflionSrs wil}, be consulted refpedting
a judicious and equitable disposition of the
houses to be built thereby ; their treasury
or the bank of Columbia will receive the
money intended for the National Univer
sity, and they will be consulted in the no
mination of the 14 managers ; but all the
refponfibihty rel'peffing the general dispo
sition of the tickets, and payment of pri
zes, will reft as in the Hotel Lottery, on
the persons whose names are and may be
hereafter publilhed as assistants to forward
this business with
S. BLODGET.
N. B. Mr. Blodget will be particularly
obliged if those persons who pofiefs prizes
yet unpaid, will apply for their money as
early as possible.
June 7th. d.
NEW THEATRE.
i Mrs. Morris's Night.
On MONDAY EVENING,
' June 9.
Will be pjefented (with permission of the
' author, George Colman jun. Esq.) an
historical Play, interspersed with songs,
r called
r The Battle of Hexham :
f OR,
DATS of OLD.
Montague, Mr. Green
Warwick, Mr. Cicrehmd
Somerset, Mr. Warretl
La Varenrie, Mr. Moreton
Corporal, Mr. Harwood
Drummer, Mr. Francis
Fifer, Mr.Bliflet
Fool, Mr. Wignell
Barton, Mr. Whitlock
ift Soldier, Mr. De Moulin
cid Soldier, Mr. J. Darley
Ift Villager, Mr. Finch
1 id' Villager, Mr. Morris
Gondibert, Mr. Fennell
ift Robber, Mr. Darley
2d Robber, , Mr. Marshall
3d Robber, Mr. Lee
4th Robber, Mr. Bason
Gregory Gubbins, Mr. Bates
Prince Edward, Matter T Warrell
Margaret of Anjou, Mrs. Whitlock
Adeline, Mrs. Marshall
Singing Villagers, Mrs. Warrell, Mrs.
Oldmixon, Miss Broad
hurft,Mifs Willems,Mrs.
Rowfon, Mrs. Bates, Mrs
Cleveland, Mrs. Finch,
Miss Rowlon, Madame
Gardie, &c.
With the original Overture and Accompa
niments.
To which will be added,
A COMEDYf in two adls, called
The True-born Irishman;
oR, .
The Irijh Fine Lady.
Murrough O'Dogherty, Mr. Whitlock
Count Muflirooni, Mr. Chalmers
Counsellor Hamilton, Mr. Green
Major Gamble, Mr. Morris
John, Mr. Bliffet
William, Mr, J. Darley
James, Mr. De Moulin
Mr. Diggerty, Mrs. Morris *
Lady Kinhegad, Mr 9. Bates •
Lady Bab Frightful, Mrs'. Rowfon
Mrs. Gazette, Cleveland
Kitty Farrell, Miss Willems
Lickets tote had of Mrs. Morris, at Mr.
Berthault's, Third near Chefnut street.
At the usual places, and of Mr'. Franklin
at the Theatre, where places may be taken.
Mrs. WHITLOCKV Night will be on
Wednesday next.
The Tragedy of The MOURNING
BRIDE, with Three IVeeks after lllnrriage
Mr. FINCH's Night will be on Friday.
Places in the Boxes to betaken at she Box-
Office of the Theatre, at any hour from n>ne
in the morning till three o'clock in the after
noon, on the day of performance. Tickets
to Be had at the office near the Theatre, a*
the corner of Sixth-flreet,and at Carr & Co's
Musical fitdry, No. 142, Market-streetA *
• Totlje L of Philadelphia. .
This Day is PuMifhnl by
MATHEW CAREY,
118, Market street,
Pricc, bound, hve eighths of a dollar, sewed
in irarble paper, halt a dollar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
• IN TWO VOLUMES.
By Mrs. ROWSON, of the New Theatre,
Phladelplua, Author of Victoria, the In
qtntitor, the Fille deChambre, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given
the following character.
IT may be a Tale of Truth, for it is not
unnatural, and it is a talc of real cliltrefs.—
Charlotte, by the artifice of a teachei, recom
mended to a school, from humanity rather
thari a convi&ion of her integrity, or the re
gularity of her former conduQ, is enticed
from her governed, and accompanies a young
officer to America.—The marriage ceremo
ny, if not forgotten, is postponed, and Char
lotte dies a martyr to the inconstancy of the
ov.er, and treachery ot his friend —The situ
tions are ai'tlefs and affe&ing—the defcr ip
ations natural and pathetic ; we fliould fe
or Charlotte if such a person fever existed,
who for one error scarcely, perhaps, d.eferved
so Tevere a punifhmept. If it is a fi&iorj,
poetic justice is not, we think, properly dii
tribute <t '
Said Carey has jujl publifljed>
A 2 ftieet map of Kentucky
compiled by Elihu Barker, price or.e dollar
ai d two third?.
War Atla'?, containing maps of FraVice,
Germany, Spa n,lt>lv, the Unitdd Provinces,
the Netherlands, and the Weil Indies. Price
two dollars.
Map of New Jersey—Hals a dollar.
Map. of Vermont, Comiefticnr, Delaware,
Georgia 'Price three eighths of a dollar
each.
ApVil 29 ttith&sfjw
Four Dollars Reward.
A NEGRO MAN, named L'Efperance.a
b"Ut 2j yearj of age, of the Congo nation, 5
feet 6 inches high ; I peaks very liuJc Englilh
tan away from his matter the a7th inftanc —
He ftofe and cat ricd away with hiriA one new
green broad cloth coat, and many articles of
lioufe furnituie. Whoever shall take op and
secure the above negro in any goal, so .that
he maybe broughtto Jtiftice shall receive the
abqve reward. Enquire of the Printer.
May 30 • >nw&f4t
JUST PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOBSON,
dcckfsller, at the Stone Houfc tri ScconJJtrrtr/,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA,
OR A
Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, aud Mifcel
laneolls Literature,
ON a plan entirely new ; by which the dif
ferent sciences and arts are digested into the
form of di'ftinft treatises or systems. This
volume contains the articles, medals, medi
cine, metallurgy, metaphysics, methodists,
Mexico, mjcrofcope, midwifry, and a great
variety of biographical and miscellaneous ar
ticles, illyftrated with nineteen copperplates.
gd?' The rabies of logarithms, &c. which
were deficient in the tenth volume, are sub
• joined to this.
Eleven volumes of this work are now pub
lifiied ,and the Xllth is in some forwardnefs.
On the fir ft of September, 1792, the price
of fubfeription was incrcafed TEN dollars on
all setts not taken before that time. The fub-'
fcription isftill open on these terms, and if
any copies remain by the firft of July next, the
. price will be railed TEN dollars more, on
any copies which may be fubferibed for after
tba.t period.
%* As many of the fubieribers have taken
only two, three or four, &c. volumes, they are
requested to take up and pay for the,
remaining volumes, as ft becomes difficult to
complete the setts, and the publiflier does not
hold himfelf bouud to make up any setts after
» the firft day-os July next.
April 22. m&th6w.
JUST PUBLISHED,
MATHEW Y CAREY,
118, MarketJlreet,
Price 18 cents,
T H E
Catechism of Man ;
Pointing out from found principles, and ac
knowledged fa&s the' Rights and Duties of
every Rational Being.
Am I therefore become your enemy beqaufe I
tell you the truth ? Gal. iv. 16
Now all these things happened unto them for
examples, and they are written for our
admonition, upon whom the ends of the
*arth are come. i Cor. xii.
Mav 10 tuth&s2.w
Advertisement.
THE relations of Mr Thomas Curtis,for
merly of EHicott's Upper Mills, and lately ol
the City of Walhirigton, de tea fed, are defir
ed to apply and have his affairs fettled.
City of WaihingLon, April 22, 1764.
M. 5 m&th4\r
W* ■ %• *
, ' Ir*-. U -
of* a lottery, t
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000 f
Dollars, dedifßing 15 per Cent, from j
the Prizes—this Lottery conjtjfs of J
38,000 *'Tickets, in •which there are <;
14,539 Pri-z.es and 23,461 Blanks, *
being about one and an halj Blanks to a
Prize. i
THE Direflorj of the Society for eftablilhing
Uictul Manufa&ures, having resolved to
erect LOTTERIES for raising On* Hundred
Thousand Dollars, agreeably loan Act of
the Legiftaturc ol the State ot New-Jersey, have
appointed the following persons to superintend
and direst the drawing ot the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rufus King, .Hciman Le Roy, James
Watfda, Richard Harrifon, Abijah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city ot New-York—
Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew Bayard, ot tl»e city of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
Elias Boudinot, General El as Dayton, James
Parker, John Bayard, Doflor Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton, JolKua M.Wallace, Joseph
Bloomfield, and Ell fha Boudinot, of Ncw-Jer
f ey, who offer the following Scheme cf a Lot
tery, and pledge themselves to the public, that
they will take every affur-nce and precaution in
their power to have the Monies paid by th'e
Managers, from time to time, as received, into
the Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for thepurpofeof paying Prizes, which
(hall be immediately difchirged by a check
npon one of t}ie Banks.
SCHEME:
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 20,000
1 10,000 10,000
2 5,000 10,000
5 2,000 10,000
10 , i,,c00 10,000
20 £00 IP,OOO
j GO 100 10,000
306 * 50 I s}° oo
1000 20 20,000
2000 1.5 30,000
£000 1 2 36,000
Bioo 10 81,000
14,539 P r ' ze *« 262,000
23,461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Laftdrawn number, 2,000
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
The drawing will commence, under the in
fpe&ion of a Committee of the Supenntendants,
as soon as the Tickets are fold,ol which timely
notice will be given.
The Supernjtendants have appointed John N.
Cumming, of Newark, Jacob R. Hardenberge
of New-Bi unfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample security for difcljarging the
trust reposed in them.
|£3T In order to fecurethepunftual payment
of the Prizes, the Superintendents of the Lottery
have directed that the Managers shall each enter
into bdndsin 40,000 dollars, with four fufficient
securities. to infttu6tion», the sub- _
itance of which is
- I. That whenever either of the Managers
1 receivethe sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he (hall immdiately place thefame in ohe of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit ot the Governor of the Society, and such
ot the Superintendents as live is the city where
the monies are placed, to remain there nntil the
Lottery is drawn, for the paymntof the Prizes.
11. The Managers to take fufficient security
for any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
refponnble for them.
111. To keep regular books .of Tickcts fold,
Monies received and paid into Hhe Bank, ab
ftra&s of which (hall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Patcrfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle
men, information will be given where tickets
may be had.
February 24. tu&ftf.
Diftridtof P.ennfylvania
TO IV J T :
(£~s > BE it remembered, that on the
, twenty fourth day of March, in
the eighteenth year of the independence of the
UuitedStates of America,EbeneS!6K. Haxard
of the said diftrift, hasdepofited in this office,
the title of a book,the right whereof heclaims
as author, in the words following, to wit :
Historical Collections ; consisting of (late
papers, and other authentic documents ; in
tended as materials for an history of the Li
nked States of "America.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A. M.
Memherof the American Philosophical So.
ciety, held at Philadelphia, for promoting
ufeful knowledge; Fellow of the American
academy of Aits and Sciences; and corref
pondent member of the MafTachufetts Histo
rical Society.
' VOLUME 11.
Ingenium, Pietas, Artes, acbellica virtus,
Hue profugoe venient, et Regna illuftria
condent,
Et Domina hie Virtus erit, et Fortuna mi
i-iiftra.''
' In conformity to the ast of the C-ongrefs of
the United Stater, entitled " An ast frr the
eucouragement of learning, by securing the
I copies of maps, charts and books, to the au
thors and proprietors of such copies, during
r the times therein mentioned."
r SAMUEL CALDWELL,
e Clerk of the Dijlrid of Pennsylvania.
May 7 ew4w
.. w s' H O E S.
)f A quantity of (tout well made Men's fiae
SHOES, adapted for tile Southern market,for
sale at '
No. 36, North Third Jtreet.
May 6
%
t *
Tl\'e r Pubfic' are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five. Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
several us which have appeared in circulation
nvilhin "few days pajl; they area good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be dtjlmguijhed by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared havs the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark. # ,
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in ihe word Company is
than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M, would extend con
siderably above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
The i and /in the word promise are not
parallel, the/inclining much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the strokes
of all the Letters are ftronfger and the devke
111 the margin particulariy is much coarser and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
ot the counterfeits bear date in 17gx—Where
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were iflued in
that year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
They are printed 011 a paper nearly similar
to that of the counterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described; the engraving is bettei exe
ucted, nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, are in numbfcr thir
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfeits. "
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as described a
bove, the 0 being less than them, and others
following.
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come do\vrt to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and go
ing below them.
The signature J. Nixon, has the appear
ance ot being written with lamb-black and
oil, and differs other inks used in
printing the bills and the calhier's (ignatute.
It is supposed thefe-forgenes were committed
ill some of the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come Irom
i hfncjt —.»«>riVtng h ?u p frppn appiehend
ed in Virginia, oq iutpicion ot Dcing uie auihor
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Person or Persons who shall
discover and prosecute to convi&ion the several
offenders of the following descriptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufactured
the paper on which the Bills are printed.
The perforl or peifons, who engraved the
plates.
The primer w printers, of the bills.
Every person who has a&ed as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794 *
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the. Bank of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
ter B.
They may be diftmwuiftied irom. the genu
ine by the following MARKS :
The paper of tire counterfeits is of a more
tender texture and glofiey furface than the
genuine, and there is no water mark in them.
The letr»r C. in the word Cashier, in the
true bills tsftrongfy marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
stroke, evidently in an unfinifhed state. The
letter a in the word demand, is badly formed
and the whole word ill done, and there is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine biHs.
The marginal device, is much darker in
1 un * n t^lc £ e " u »tie bills owing to
tne shade strokes being coarser, much nearer
together, and conlequently much more nu
merous. Ihis difference strikes the eye at firft
view. >
J^ e me reward of ONE THOUSAND
» DOLLARS, will be paid for apprehending, &
prolecuting to convi&ion the i'everal above
C i r Anders m refpetf: to this, as to
- the last described bills.
f THOMAS WILLING, Piefident
of the B-rnk (Jmted States.
e JOHN NIXON, Prefideotaf the
Bank of North America.
~ By order of the Committees of the Res-
S peftive Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
TN an eligible situation,—also a Country Seat
te within 6 milesof the Citv, \vitlr9 acres of
lr land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded bymany in the vicinity
01 the city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
&ttf
1
THE office of the Preftdent and DireA
•f the Insurance Company of No,?
America, is removed to No. .107 South
Front street, being the south east corner f
Front and Walnut Greets.
To the Ele&ors of the city and
county of Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
This being the Iafl; year of the prrfenf
Sheriff's time in office. I take the liber
ty to offer mvl'elf a Candidate, and lblj c jf
vour votes and interests in my favor, to plare
me on the return at the next generalEleftion
as his successor for said office; in doing which'
you will confer an obligation that "will be
gratefully remembered, by
* Your moll obedient,
and humble iervant,
john baker.
3- estf.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
The Subscriber intending to confine h'rmfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE &SALEof
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b(gs leave to ot
fer his fervicesto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock. Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their bufmefs, may depend
Upon having it t ran failed with the utmcft fide.
1 ity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United State:,, will be ft r jg|y
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
ro&thtf
Just Pub'ifhed,
A one handsome volume, iamo. Price jg
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN OR II ROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Ckefuut
Stre-t,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Corrected and Enlarged,
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
Profeflor of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
of Nature, and of Ecclesiastical Hiftoryj
and Minister of the English ChuichatU
trecht.
Aliquid Temper ad commuium utilitatem as*
ferendum. CICtRO.
The Firjl American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality,if right
ly understood, is the only basis on which
universal justice, factcd order, and perfed
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent*
lv secured. The
" "eTlay, at "the* la me" tunc that it rcpre/Tfis the
insolence of office, the tyranny of pi itfe, and,
the outrages of oppreflion ; confirms, in thp
most forcible manner, the neceflity of fubcw
dination, and the just demands of lawful au-*,
thority. So far "indeed, from loosening the
bands bf society, that it maintains inviolate, j
every natural and every civil diftin&ion,
draws rhdre closely every locial tie, unites in
one harmonious and juflly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the eve*
ground of the inherent rights of humau na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of 4 com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. tuts
'STATE OF SOUTH-CAROLINA
In the House of Representatives,
December 21ft, 1793-
WHEREAS the CornnuiDoners of public
Accounts, have reported, that they can
not proceed to the investigation of the Treasury
Accounts, refpe&ing special Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation : —Therefore,
Rcfolvcdy Thfci-ali holders of special Indents
be directed, and required, on or before the firtl
day of November nrxt, to deliver the special In
dents in their pofleflion to one or other of the
C°nrmiflioneys of the Treasury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to report totheCom
miflioners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
theiw rcfpeftively received, and also* 10 the Le
-1 giflature, at their meeting in November nex».
► and that ail special Indents not rendered inio
' the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, shall be, and the fame arc
1 hereby barred.
) R'cjohed, That public notice of this resolution
r be given in the several Gazettes in this S'ate t
. once every three weeks, until the fiift day of
t November next. And <hat the Delegates ot this
State in the Congress of the Uintod States, be re
) quested to cause this resolution to be published
c in one ortnnre papers in the cities of phiiadtU
e phia and New-York, and that provifton will be
made for the expences attending such publica
tion.
t Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
their concurrence.
e By order of the House,
JOHN £AN FORD DART, C.tt.R*
In the SENATE,
December 21ft,»793-
Refofved, That this House do concur with the
House oJ Representatives in the foregoing reso
lutions.
Ordered, That the resolutions be sent to the J
> House ot Reprefentanves.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
J. ewtNov.
e — —
y PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, N0.,f0
.South Foujth-Street. § It