o<i>rttr of t!,r Unite) States
EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 56 of Vol. V.]
Notice is hereby given,
r the fubferiher has been duly ap-
X pointed Adruiniftrafifix on the estate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, ilecealed, and
has taken upon herfelf that trust, by giving
bondi the law dire&s—and all persons in
terested, are desired to take notice accord
inglj.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
ALL perfunswho have anydemands against
the Estate of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subscriber, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who stand indebted to said Estate, are
rrouefted to fettle with him immediately ; as the
Ast of Limitation of Actions, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
©therwife render it neeelfary for him 10 com
mence suits aga nft them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
tn the A'imir.iftrat l ix.
Boston.Nov. 1
N. B. The Printer... throughout this Com
monwealth, are requested to insert this in their
refpeftive newspapers ? and forward their ac
counts for the fame, to J. M.
ADVERTISEMENT.
Virginia, Morthumber/anU ( Dec. 28. 1793*
FOR SALE,
A Valuable Trad of LAND,
in this county, containing about eight
hundred aeres, one iourth of Ohich is low
grounds, of excellent quality; the other three
fourths is high land, well covered with oak,
hickory and chefnut.
The fuuation is pleasant and healthy, on Yeo
eotnieo river, about three miles from the Poio
mack. There is on it a two story brick dwel
ling-house, with four rooms and a palTage on
each floor, exelufive of closets ; a good kilchcn,
•nd other necessary out-houfes. It has orchards
of apple and piach trees, and is well watered
by many delightful springs. The terms may be
known on application to the Honorable JOHN
HEATH, in Philadelphia, or to the fublcriber,
living on the premtfes.
JOHN GORDON
Jan. 10.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Sccond-Jlreetj
Seconddoor below the corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A hirge and general Ajfortment of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be disposed of on the lowest terms.
Dec. 23. mw&ftf
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1794-
NOTICE is hereby given, that there will
be paid at the Bai-k, after the fifteenth
instant, to the Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty cents for each (hare, being t!»e dividend
declared for the last fix months.
Bv Order,
JOHN KEAN, Caftiier.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths Jewellers,
No. 42,
JOUtH SECOND-STMIT,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elfgant AJortmtnt of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY WCUTLERY,
Which they will difpoie of on the most rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, done as n'uai.
December 24.
7 his day is pubhfhed,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. üB,MaRKIT4TREIT,
(Price a quarter dollar)
A (hort account of ALGIERS,
Containing a description ol the cltmatc of that
country—of the manners and customs of the in
habitants, and of their leveral wars against Spain,
France, England, Holland, Venice, and other
powers of Europe, from the usurpation of Bar
barofTa and the invasion of the Emperor Charles
V. to the present time ; with a eoncife view of
the origin of the rupturr between ALGIERS
and the UNITED STATES.
J«o. 9.
CO" Gentleman, in poffejjion of Subfcriptwn
tapers for this Gazette, are requefled to
tranfmt them to the Editor 'j Office.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfocitds and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
la pipea, hogfhrr.ds and quarter daflcs,
TOR SALE BY
No. in, Sooth Front-llreei,
J>n. », 1794.
ALL persons having any de
mands agauift the estate ot GiORGE
WIBLE, Uie ol the city of Philadelphia, baker,
are rt-qucfttd 10 bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated ; and those who ait indebted, are
desired to make immediate payment.
HENRY RELS, Aimniftr*tor.
2awjw.
January 13.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by
Thomas Dobfon,
Price three eighths of a Dollar,
" An Enquiry into the principles
and tendency of certain public
measures."
January 16.
NORRI S-COUR T,
Back of the New Library, between Chelnut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs hrt friends and
the public in peneral, that he continues
carrying on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window«ftiutters,done in the most
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
This day is pubttjhed,
United States Register,
For the Year 1794.
Printed by Sfewart and Cochran, No. 34,
South Second-Arret, and John M'Culioch, No. j,
North Third-street, wd 10 be (old by them and
the book fellers.
Jan. 18. cUf
Treasury Department,
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will
be received at the Office of the Secretary
of the Treasury, until the 6 h cf February next
inclusive, tor the supply of all Rations which
may be required during the preKnt year, at the
several places of rendezvous hereafter mention
ed, lor the Recruiting Service, viz.
At NCw-Brunfwick, in New-Jerfcy ;
At Philadelphia, j)
At Lancaster, V in PennfyWania.
At Reading, )
The rations 10 be furnifficd are to consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or £ of a pound of poik,
Half ajill of rum, brandy or whiflty,
One qirait of fait }
Two quarts of vineearf
, ir > per too rations,
Two pounds ol soap C r
One pound of candles)
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
By M. C A R E Y,
No. itß, MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuable colleftioD ofBOOKS,
imported from London in the Mohawk.
Dee. 19.
mwjrftf
£> Terms of Subfcriptwn for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of persons
<who reftde at a d'tflance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advertifementß of one square, or less, in
fer tedfour times for One Dollar-—once y for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line f and Subscrip
tions , ivill be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourtbflrectyfivc doors north of the
Indian Queen.
AND
Thursday, January 25, 17^4.
JOHN VAUGHAN,
dtw
THE
tawi6F.
The Young LADIES'
Drawing Academy,
Under the Dtrcflion of
S. F O L WEL L,
mil, in a feiv days, be reftimed.
HE feels a gratitude to those parents
and guardians of the young ladies,
who have entrusted to him their tuition—
and as most of them are to return, he will
have an opportunity, by his endeavors for
their further improvement, to acquit him
felf of a debt, which he esteems it an honor
to have incurred.
One or two large Rooms,
la a central situation, faitable tp accom
modate his pupils, are wanted. Apply to
him, at No. 2, Lxtitia Court—where he
will be thankful to receive commands for
Miniature Painting or Hair Work, and all
kind of Drawing on Ivory, Sattin or
Paper.
January 13, 1794
Pennsylvania Hospital ijt Mo. 15.
THE Contributors are requested to
meet at the Hospital on 3d day the 28th
inft. at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, to ex
amine a ground plan, with several esti
mates of the buildings, wliich are propo
sed to be extended to accommodate a
greater number of Lunatic Patients, and
for other uses. Also to determine the
propriety of building the ensuing season.
By order of a board of Managers.
SAMUEL COATES, Clerk.
N. B. The Printers of the News-Pa
pers in this City, will oblige the Contribu
tors, by inserting the above Advertisement.
CONTINUATION OF
Foreign Intelligence,
Received by theJh'tp Hunter, arrived at
New-Tork from London,
LONDON, Nov
Thirteen persons, accused of having
been in corrsfpondence with Gen. Van
Damme, when he besieged Nieuport, and
who endeavored, by their influence a
mong the inhabitants of that place, to fa
cilitate the surrender of it, have been ar
retted at Ghent.
The indictment against BrifTot, and the
other arretted deputies, was drawn up on
the 2 jth ult.
The infamous Egalite, in obedience to
the decree of the National Convention, is
arrived at Paris, in order to take his trial
with Briffot, and the other arretted depu
ties.
Mr. Elliot, minister plenipotentiary
from the King of Great Britain, in deli
vering to the States-General of Holland,
the declaration relative to the affairs of
France, accompanied it with a memorial,
in which he said, " That his Britannic
Majesty doubted not but that the senti
ments contained in this declaration, were
perfectly conformable to those of the other
powers of Europe.
The States General, in reply, thanked
Mr. Elliot for the above communication,
and prayed to him to make it known to
the Miniftryof his Britannic Majesty,—
" That, as the causes of the present war
have been the fame with his Britannic Ma
jesty as with their High Mightineffes,who
are united by the bonds of ft rift alliance ;
so the end which the States General have
propofedto themselves in continuing it,
have never been other than that expressed
in the said Declaration ; to wit. To rc
pulfe an unjust aggrelfion ; to co-operate
in the defence of their allies j and to ob
tain an honorable and solid peace, as well
asajuft indemnification for the immense
expences occasioned to the Republic and
its allies, by the violence of their common
enemies. In consequence, the States Ge
neral fully partake ofthe sentiments of his
Britannic Majesty, and will enjoy the ut
most fatisfaftion, when the French nati
on, restored to itfelf, and united under a
government which refpe£h the sacred
bonds of civil society and the rights of o-
[Whole No. 494.]
ther nations, (hall be able to renew its re
lations ot peace and union with other
states; and enforce the maintenance of
them."
From the LONDON GAZETTE'
WHITEHALL, Nov. 6.
The following dispatch was received
this morning from Sir James Murray, &c.
&c. by the Rt. Hon. Henry Dund'as, his
majesty's principal Secretary of State for
the Home Department.
Champhin, OA. 30, 1793-
Sir,
" I have the honor to inform you of
the success of an attack upon Marchiennes,
which, by order of his Royal Highness,
took place last night.
" Eight battalions were put under the
command of Major General Krav, for
this enterprize. They marched at mic'-
night from Orchies in three columns, each
column headed by two officers and 60
volunteers, fupporfed by 300 men. These
were not permitted to load. The reft of
the troops of the different columns, with
their cannon, followed at fomc diftancc.
A detachment from the corps of Major
Gen. Otto, ported by Denain, marched
about the fame time, formed iu 4 columns,
in similar order that the town might be
attacked at once Upon all fides. The lat
ter troops were discovered by the enemy's
out posts, and prevented from penetrating
by the opposition which they met with.
Those under Gen. Kray, one column of
which advanced upon the high road from
Grchies, and the two others npon the left
of it, got, about 2 o'clock in the morning
within a ftiort distance of the town before
they were perceived.
dl w
" The volunteers at the head of the
column which was upon the road, fell in
with a picquet about 100 yards from th*
gate, which they surprised, killed the
greater part of it, and pursued the reft l.»
closely, that they entered the place 1-
long with them. The troops in the town
made little resistance. After being- driv
en from the market plate, where they
had assembled, they retreated to a con
vent near it. They there proposed
terms of capitulation, which Gen. Kray
consented to, as they surrendered prison
ers of war, with the folc condition of the
officers being permitted to wear their
swords.
" There are 1629 prisoners, officers
included, most of them troops of the
line. There arelikewife 12 piecesof can
non and 22 or 23 tumbrils taken. There
arc supposed to be about 300 of the ene
my killed. The lofsofmajor gpn". Krav's
corps is between 70 and 80 tilled and
wounded. Thefofs upon major gen. Ot
to's fide is unknown,, hut it is not imagj
uedtobe conflderable.
I have the honor to be,
with the greatest refpeft, Sir,
your most obedt. humble ferv.
Rt. lion. Henry Dumks, &c.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION
Sitting of October 22.
Report from Toulon,
OSober it.
" At Toulon, the force of our enemie*
in (hips, is 25 frigates, or armed (hips:
200 cannoneres have Bern sent on Ihore
from the (hips, for the protection of the
forts. There are 2000 Englilh soldiers,
2000 Spanish, ijoo Savoyards, 5000
Neapolitans, 2000 Slavonians - r in all, a
bont 10,700 men.
" The repert is common at Toulon,
that a large convoy is daily expected there
with 6000 Portuguese, 6000 Spaniard*,
and 2000 more English.
" The 14,000 whom they expect, ad
ded to the 10,700 already at Toulon, will
form an army of from 24 to 25,000 men j
and as soon as these corps are joined, the
plan is, to make a sortie in force, in order
to march to Aix, where they mean to re.
JAMES MURRAY.efel<li(li the old parliament. It muR ne.
wrthelefs be observed, that oi'.t of thcfc
24 or 25,000 men, they mult gari'foo all
the forts, and that, in confcqiKnce, more
than 1 4 or ij,gco cannot make the for-
" Le Commerce de Bourdeaux, and le
Commerce de Marseilles, are ready to' set
oat for Naples, to take on board the Cdunt
d'Artois, Monsieur, and the Billiop of
Toulon.
" A quantity of Patriots have been em
barked for the mines of Spa;ii; tbe num
ber reported (certainly exaggerated) is
6000, including those who are daily im
prifoued, which Lami has seen with his
own e\es. The Revolution mult not be
mentioned at Toulon, iince the Gentle
men and the Englilh govern, and all
French citizens are disarmed.—They no
lo: get w;!h for the conillaitlon of 1789,
as at the firft epoch of their wickeducfc,
but they a&\ially delire the a::cient regi
men, with all its attributes. When Car
teaux arrived at Marseilles, the forts of
Toulon were almoll naked, and were not
fuvnifhed till some time afterward.
" The rope yard of the ariena! is pre
pared for I GOO Spamfli borfes which they
cxjm_&, above which the troops are to be
lodged. When the last convoy which they
e> ( Ct fl.dli be arrived, the plan is, to at
tach the army of Carteaux rather than of
Italy; bccrule, fay they, wj frill immo
late the army of Carte- x, which is com
posed only of banditti, and without troops
of the line, under the walls of Toulon.
" Fortydtrar.fports to provision the ci
ty are dispatched under the efcoi t of some
(hips of the line.
"At Toulon they have taken the
names of proprietors of houses which had
afiiy;nnts, 'With a promise to reimburse
them half, after the loan that is going to
be opened at Genoa, at the fame time
that this Republic will be required to de
clare itlelf.
" Horfcs are wanting at Toulon, as
they have not been able to find more than
fifty, to mount fume Frenlh deserters,- of
whum M. A nan d' Aix is to be comman
der. Afiignats do not pass there, except
for bread, which is the only article at a
price ; and, in spite of the publications,
the bakers take them only because they
are farced to do so ; their provisions are
bacon and fait ir.eat. The burghers of
the town have no fort of command.
" A number of emigrants flock in dai
ly ; but no Frenchmen are employed for
the military service, but as it is absolutely
necessary. The ariltocratt are mostly em
ployed in the General Committees of the
Sections and other superior offices.
[Several names are here inserted as
maiked obje&s of vengeance. They are
thofs vrho are principally employed in the
Se&ions.]
" The people employed in th« arsenal
are those who were foimerly penfionedby
the ancient Tyrant, and fold to despo
tism. Our fai'lors are daily imprisoned ;
and it will be difficult to let the English
squadron on lire, because the (hips lie so
much asunder.
" The redoubt of Port Paron is guard
ed by 4CO English and Spaniards. They
are daily strengthening this redoubt.
" The tree of Liberty has been chan
ged into a gibbet for the patriots, and the
reft of it has been burnt.
" Louis XVIIth has been proclaimed
King.
" The address of the National Conven
tion again(t Toulon, has been (luck up in
the moll conspicuous parts of the town,
but in a different sense from the original;
and the Toulonefe are made to believe,
that fevenil adjoining towns have afiumed
the White Cockade—that thete is no lon
ger a Convention—and that the army of
Vendee is at Paris."
Here the reporter developed all the
misfortunes which the Republic has fuf
biined. He imputes them to the cowar
dice and corruption of the commanders
—the egotism and bad disposition of a
great number of citizens—and the impu
nity of *he towns of Longwy and Ver
dun, which, said he, have occasioned the
infamous red lift ion of Conde, Valen
ciennes, and La Qiiefnoy. Barrere pro
posed, and the Afilmbly pafled the fol
lowing decrees :
I(I Decree—" The Convention does
not in the lead degree derogate from the
decree of the Legislative Aflembly, which
orders the dtflruttion of any place that
shall fttrrender without having stood an
aflault.
2d Decree—" When a city (hall have
been declared in a (late of rebellion, there
fnali no longer be any public eftablilh
ment, foundery, or arsenal in that city."
3d Decree—" The laws already enact
ed for the fcqVieiiration, adminillration,
&c. of the effects of the Lyonefe rebels,
lhall apply to the effecls of the Toulon
clc.
OCTOSSS 26.
A letter was read from General Car
te;l u, commanding the aimy before Tou
lon, dated October 17.
The General announces, that the mo
ment when the Republican army was re
joicing at the taking of Lyons, the ene
my presented themfelvcs in five columns,
to the number of about 5000 men, to
cut oft' the army in two points at once ;
but that they had been repulsed with
such vigor tliat they were obliged to fly
fefter than they firlt advanced, with the
loss of about 300 men either killed or
wounded; our loss coniiils of 26 men
(lightly wounded, and fix killed.
The Butt try of the Sans Culottes at
Notre Dame de Brega, cuts off mails at
times, and damages the enemy's frigates ;
four of their {hips are under repair.
October 27,
A deputation from the inKabitants of
the department of La Vendee, returned
thanks to the Ci>nventi6n for having re
stored them to Liberty, by the defeat and
difperlion of the horde of rebellious roy
aliits, who for three years had convulsed
the department, and desolated the country
with fire and sword.
LONDON, Oa. 17,
The republic of Genoa have ap
pointed the Marquis of Spinola to be their
Minister Plenipotentiary and Envoy Ex
traordinary at the Court of London. M.
de Spinola is well known to England by
his talents, and mult be acceptable to his
Majesty by his political principles. He
was Minister in France, and has resided
in London ever I: nee the revolution of the
loth of August 1792.
The republic of Genoa is r.s much
pressed as ail the other states by the allies,
and chiefly by England, to put an end to
its neutrality,and to declare againll France
—Nothing can bemore impoliticthau this
measure, and nothing more unjust. The
Genoese have so much property in
France, that to depart from their neutra
lity would be ruin to all their principal ci
tizens, and yet this consideration did not
operate on them to lean towards the
French, even at the time when they were
every where triumphant, and when they
made all Italy tremble. Even, at that
moment, they denied a paflage to the
French troops, to attack their own natu
ral enemy, the King of Sardinia. For
getful of this fact, however, they are
now to be bullied into the war, and of
course to be made partakers in the cala
mity, which it brings on all who are en
gaged in it.
The new Doge of Genoa is Joseph
Doria, the nephew of M. de Spinola,who
has reluctantly taken upon him the digni
ty. He is one of the inoft conliderable
men in the Republic, by his talents as
well as hereditary diftin&ion, and his be
ing forced to accept the office, is a proof
how much they are pressed by the allied
powers.
A letter from Marseilles, dated Sept.
ig, fays, that the French before Toulon
have got polTeffionof the fort of Ardenne,
cut off a stream of fre(h water that sup
plied the tows, and were preparing to at
tack the Pharon.
TheDeyof Algiers'has declared war
againfl the French, but in the mod vo
luntary and disinterested manner. What
ever rumour may fay to the contrary, he
has neither been bullied nor fubfiaized by
the British ministry.
On the 14th of July last, a convention
confiding of five articles, was signed at
the camp before Mayence, by the Earl of
Yarmouth and the Marquis de Lucchefmi
on the part of their Britannic and Prussi
an Majesties, to the following effeil.
" As the object of the war is to bring
about such a form ofgovernment in France
as (hall ensure security and tranquillity to
Europe, the contracting parties bind
themselves not to lay down their arms but
ky common consent ; and not until resti
tution is obtained for any depredation
which France may have made upon either
of the said parties, or on their friends or
allies, and not to permit the importation
of any military or naval (lores,corn,grain,
or fait meat,or provisions ; and to employ
all their means to injure the commerce of
France ; and also to prevent any neutral
fta'c from giving any proteftion,direftly,
or indirectly, to the French."
From the London Gazette.
WHITEHALL, Nov. 2.
By intelligence received frpm the Earl
of Yarmouth, dated Brumpt, Austrian
Head Quarters, 0&. 24, it appears that
on the morning of the 17th, Gen.Wurm
fer having received information that Ha
guenau had surrendered to the advanced
corps under Gen. Mageroes, he immedi
ately put the bulk of his army into moti
on, and arrived the're that night, a few
hours before it had been evacuated by the
enemy, who had made so precipitate a
retreat, as to neglect breaking down the
wooden bridges over which the artillery
was to pass. That on the 18th, the
French encamped 011 the rightbank of the
Zorn, a small river which rails through
Brumpt; but on perceiving some inter
val between Gen. Mageroe'sadvanced corps
consisting of about 6000 men, and the
other columns of the army, they crossed
the river, and attacked him with their
whole force, in the evident expeftationof
turning his flank, and cutting him oft from
the reft of the army. The action lasted 7
hours, but upon perceiving the reft of
the Austrian army move forward, the
French recrofTed the river, and evacuated
the heights and town of Brumpt,of,which
the Auftrians took pofleffion. The loss
on the part of the French, is eflimated
at 8.00 men, and that of the Auftrians,
nearly half the number, in killed and
wounded. That the Prince of Waldeck
had advauced with his troops from Soltk,
and marched along the banks of the Rhine
—That he had compelled the furrendcr
of Drugenheim, and after having driven
the garrison of fort Louis, with some loss
had invested the place. That in the
course of the night, the French had a
bandoned their former position on the
Zorn, and retreated under the cannon of
Strafburg. That Gen. Wurmfer was at
the distance of nine English miles from
that place.
In addition to the nccountsnlready puh
liihed.of the forcing of the lines of Weif
fembourg and Lauterbourg, it appears,
that the Austrian army had between feten
and eight hundred men killed and wound
ed, and that the loss of the French con
fided of between 3 and 4000 killed .from
j to 600 prisoners, and 26 pieces of can
non, with their ammunition waggons and
horses. The retreat of the French on
this occasion was greatly favored by a
thick fog.
November 4.
Bulletin of the Combined Armies, at the
Head Quarters at Bavay, Oft. 21
The enemy have attacked the polls of
Maucron, Romain, Orchies, Marchien
nes, and Denain, and marched in strong
columns and with a numerous artillery,
towards all these places, but they were e
very where repull'ed, except at Marchien
nes, where through their great superiori
ty they succeeded in repulsing the battali
on. of Kaunitz who defended this poll
Our loss in these affairs is very trifling.—
That of the enemy must be considerable,
since near Denain alone they have loft a
bove6oo men. Prisoners made are acap
tain, J lieutenants, and 55 soldiers.
The enemy were 10,000 strong ; they
have carried along with them 800 wound
ed. Our loss is very immaterial.
Our whole loss near Maubeuge, a
mounts in killed to 8 officers, 12 non
commissioned officers, 389 soldiers, 143
horses. Miffing and prisoners, 2 officers,
3 non-commiflioned officers, 267 privates,
25 horses.
Besides the adjutant Of lieutenant co
lonel Count Tavenfien, firft lieutenant
Baron Dornftein, has been killed by a
cannon ball, by the fide of field marshal
Cobourg.
The loss of the enemy, according to
all reports, mult amount to 8000 men :
near 300 men have been made prisoners.
We hate loft neither cannon, ammuniti
on, waggons, or baggage.
On the 22d the enemy made a very
bride attack near Menin and Orchies ; a
corps of the enemy of 6000 men, with 20
pieces of cannon, attacked our right
wing, near Cifoing, which fell back to
Templeneuve, in order to draw the ene
my into the plain : Major-General Boros,
who was at this latter post, made the best
dispositions to receive the enemy ; Col.
Count Kollovrath attacked them with the
infantry, fupportcd by artillery, aiid
broke their ranks.
Major Wofna, of Efterhazy huflars,
attacked at the fame time in front and in
Karaczy's light herfe chargcd
rear.
likewise ; and the remainder of our
troops, as well as a detachment of Eng
liih and Hanoverian cavalry, having ad
vanced in the interim, the enemy were
compleatly routed, with the loss of 400
killed on the field of battle and 100 pri
soners.
Our loss is of no confequencc, b it we
have to regret the brave captain Fabien,
killed with a cannon ball.
November 5,
A letter of which the following is an
extract, was last night received from Sir
James Murray, A. D. to the forces un
der the command of his royal highness
the Duke of York, dated Camphm, No
vember 1.
" Some of the light troops made yes
terday an attack on the French post at
Ors, and Catilion-fur-Sambre, in which
with very little loss, they killed near 400
of the enemy, took about 100 prisoners,
and two pieces of cannon."
CONGRESS.
House of Representatives.
January 17.
In committee of the whole, on the report of
the Secretary of State, relative to the com
mercial intercourse of this country, with so-
reign nations.
Mr. Findley next rose
He suggested a diffidence in riftng on
the fubjeft, as it required a knowledge of
circumftancea and fatts which seldom came
under his consideration ; but having exa
mined the cafe with fufficient attention to
determine his vote, as no member claimed
the floor, he would offer some of those rea
sons which were convincing to himfelf.
He took notice of the member lalt up,
who aflerted that the additional duties pro
pof:d were not intended for prote&ing
manufacturer, nor as additional revenues,
but as bounties to the nations with which
we have commercial treaties. That no o
ther nation could furnifh us with fufficien
cy of goods, and who then aficed in what
manner we will raifc our revenues ?
To which he answered ; th:it the poll*
t'cal intention of the lefolution was to se
cure our independence as a commercial na
tion, and to make it the intcreft of certain
European nations to enter into commerci
al treaties with us ; they have refufed to
treat because they enjoy more advantages
without treaties than they could expe£t a
ny treaties could feeure to them. He iil
ledged it was not properly a commercial
war, or a principle of revenge or retaliati
on that was intended by the resolutions.
Revenge for supposed insults offered to the
crown, may be the principle of the duel
ling wars undertaken by European des
pots, but fuc'n principles arc inadmiflihle
in republican politics. The design of the
proposed measure is to procure a recipro
city of advantages in commerce without
war ; it is calculated to procure justice, to
secure the practical enjoyment of that in
dependence, which though we have esta
blished after an arduous contest, we have
not reaped the advantages which ought to
have resulted from it, nor put ourselves in a
capacity to protest it.
The firft attempt to revise the confe
deration was expressly within the design of
verting Congrefi with fufficient powers for
rendering our commerce more independ
ent. When the revision of the government
did take place, this was a principal object
both in the enlargement of the powers, and
regulating the forms of the government.
The gentleman from Virginia, (Mr.
M.) has explained the reasons why filch
measures were not more early adopted, and
has properly suggested that those reasons
no longer exist.
The proposed reflrl&ions are necefTary
torail'e a competition in European markets,
and gave an option to our merchants in dif
ferent nations. Though the afTortment
for some time might not be so genera! in
other countries as Britain, yet certainly
much of the neceflary supplies, such as li
nens and woolens have been got on as good
terms in France as in England, and have
been in quantity more than equal to the
demand. By depending on one nation for
our whole supplies, fubjetts us too much
to the caprice and the fate of that nation.
Suppcfing that nation to be at war with
ourfeives or our allies, we must be much
embarrassed in our supplies, and will find it
difficult to find goods from nations who
had not provided for our demands. Sup
posing a state of bankruotcy or infurreftion
to take j,lace in the nation on which wedepend for supplies, we will (hare in their
diilreffcs.
The gentleman from South Carolina
(Mr. Smith and others) considered the
credit to which our merchants are admit
ted in Britain as more than equivalent to
the reftri&ioits we are fubjedted to by tliat
nation. It is urged that the exteniive use
we are admitted to make of Britilh capi
tal ought to have great weight in our cf
timatesof the comparative adv.mtageof our
commerce with Britain. Mr. Fincjley
begged Inave totally to differ with thole
gentlemen in opinion ; he considered the
extensive use made by our merchants of
Britilh credit as a very gieat political evil,
he said it promoted an unfavorable balance
of trade, and enables our merchants to im
port goods in greater abundance than we
need, consequently our induftrv, especially
in domestic manufactures is discouraged,
and luxury is promoted; it is an old obser
vation that the borrower is a servant to the
lender.
The consequence of the British credit
so much boaited of is, that our merchants
are many millions in debt to the manu
facturers or merchants of Britain, our
storekeepers are in proportion indebted to
tiie merchant, and country people are ;n
debt to the storekeepers for Inch manufac
tures as they could have lived Well with
out, and which many of them were not
able to pav for. Thus credit while it en
riches a few individuals occasions a ruinous
fvftem of debts and bankruptcies to per
vade our countrv from the cities to the
most remote boundaries.
But a greater evil presents itfelf to our
consideration. This credit promotes a
fyllem of British influence dangerous to
our political security. The merchant who
depends upon Britilh crcdit is necessarily
under the influence of the hand that feeds
him, the storekeeper is in debt to the
merchant and fubjecl to his influence.
And such storekeepers abounding not on
ly in all the finall towns, But in every
place of public resort, consequently this
extensive Britilh credit is a source of Bri
tish influence spread through the whole
United States.
He said, that since Congress met he had
been industrious to procure information
oil this fubjeft. He knew that before the
country people expeited such regulations
with anxiety, and he now knew that the
merchants who were able to carry on fcufi
nefs without the aid of the Britilh credit
were very generally in favour of commer
cial reftriftions. And that those who
were not in that fitmtion were generally
against them, these different principles na
turally arose from their refpettive iituati-
He exprefled some surprize that the
gentleman from Maryland (Mr. S.) spoke
of the French treaty with so little can
dour ; why did he not mention the gua
rantee of the Weft-Indies as a part of the
commercial treaty as well as the admitting
the French privateers and prizes into our
ports ? The truth is neither the one nor
the other were of the commercial parts of
the treaty. The gentleman knew that the
exertions of that nation in our behalf by
their arms and their money were the parts
of the treaty relative to the opening our
ports to their privateers, prizes, See.
He faidthe Britifhrcftri&ionsto which
we were fubjeffced, the encouragements
given to the hostile Indians, that was no
longer a secret. The letting loose the
Algerines on our commerce, a fa ft which
he trusted no member would now deny.
The refufing to fulfil the definitive treaty
or to enter into a commercial one ; all
tended to prove that this was the proper
time to aflert our own commercial rights,
not for revenge but felf-defence. The
present embarrafled state of Europe ren
dered such a measure neceflary, and en
couraged the profpeA of its being effec
tual. (To be Continued.)
NEW-TORK, January 21
ExtraS of a Letter from a refpeflable Mer-
cantile House, dated London 19th 03.
" From the measures taken by your Rul
ers to secure that neutrality which hat been
fomelimeprofeffed and which ly the latejl ad
vices you now seem seriously disposed to pre
serve, the various fecurit'us of your Continent
have, in this market, fnce my lajl, conjiderably
advanced. Six per Crnt Stock is now at 66,
threes 55, deferred 60, and U. S. Bank
104 a 105. They are however an article
so Ruble to flußuation that no certain depend
ence can be placed on their flability ; for
were a few clouds to darken the horizon a
little, they would tumble again with equal
rapidity."
LAW OF THE UNION.
THIRD CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES,
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennfylvapia, on Monday
the second of December, one thousand
seven hundred and niaity-three.
Aji ACT making art alteration in the Flag
of th: Ur. i:cr! States.
BE itena&edby
of Rep refer. 1
States of America, in Coa^r.'
That from and after the firft .1
Anno Domini, one ihoufind J even hun
dred and ninety-five, the* 'F'ag of the U
nited States, be fifteen stripes, alternate
red and white. That the Union be fif
teen liars, white, in a blue field.
Frederick Augustus Muhlenberg,
Speaker of the House of
Representatives.
k' Ssnste ar.d Houfc
irivts of the , United
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United States and President
of the Senate.
Approved January the thir
teenth, 1794.
G°. Washington, Prdidcnt of the
United States.
Depofite'd among the Rolls in the Office
of the Secretary of State,
Edm. Randolph,
Secretary of State.
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 23.
If the substance of the Letters com
municated by the Prefidtnt of the United
States yesterday to Congress—as dated
in yesterday's proceedings of the House
of Reprefe»tatives, and publiflied this
day,is justly ftatcd-the representation of the
contents ot those Letters as published in
the Philadelphia Gazette of last evening,
is grossly erroneous.
Extratt of a letter dated Havre-de-Grace
Ift Nov. 1793, to a Merchant here.
" You will receive intelligence of the
misfortunes of France, when we (hall be
no more ; the most cruel war abroad as
well as inward is making among us the
horideft ravages; the most tremendous
famine is our profpett, God knows whe
ther we shall avoid it. In this state of
affairs none can mind his friends interefls,
I shall do for yours what the fear of Guil
lotine constantly over our heads may per
mit, your indigoes and coffee are in my
warehouse, 1 wish them in yours still. Our
friend H. at Rouen is arrested, and con
fined without known cause, the shipper of
your goods from Bourdeaux is hid away,
the velfel (tho' American, tho' (he brought
a large cargo of provisions,) is detained
and at ancho • in the Geronda, what will
become of the shipper, (hip and cargo
God only knows ; you are unlucky in
your speculations, God grant that we may
jive for each other."
" Write me without reflections on the
prefcnt circumstances, I dare only to add
that Genet is rc-called. I fear as bad a
one may be appointed without so much
abilities."
At a stated meeting of " The Society
for the institution and support of First day
or Sunday Schools in the city of Phila
delphia, and the diiiricl of Southwark
and the Northern Liberties," held at
Sharplefs's Academy, January 14, 1794,
the following persons were ele&ed officers
for the year 1794, vk.
William White, President.
Benjamin Say, Vice-President,
Charles Marshall, Treasurer.
and Peter Thomson, Secretary.
At the fame time James Todd, Willi
am Sanfom and George Williams were
chosen visitors, in the room of James
Hardie, John Perot and Jacob Shoemaker,
whose times in that service were expired :
so that the present visitors of the Schools
are
Peter Barker,
Tlios. Say Bartram,.
Joseph Sharplefs,
James Todd,
William Sanfom,
George Williams.
Thomas Howard,
Ellis Yarnall,
Jefle Sharpkfs,
Benjamin Say,
Joseph Budd,
Samuel Scotten,
PRICE of STOCKS.
6 per cents, 18/2 to 18/3
10/2
3 ditto,
Deferred, 11/2
U. S. Bank, 13 per cent, advance.
N. A. ditto, 20 ditto ditto.
Pennsylvania do. 7 ditto ditto.
Congress of tbe United Stales
House of Refrefeutativct,
Wednesday, January 22.
A letter was received from the Secre
tary of ilate refpetting the cliafm in the
printed correspondence between the exe
cutive 6f the United States and the Britilh
Miniver, informing the house that a letter
from Jefferfon to Mr. Hammond, Jiad
been omitted by mifhke—and encfofing a
copy of said letter—Thic, it was ordered
ihould be printed.
A communication was received, and
read, from the war-office, relative to pro
posals on the part of the Creek Indians,
for peace.
of May,
The military establishment-bill was ta
ken up for a third reading—but some in
accuracy in the phraseology being pointed
out, it was referred to a fele£t committee
ior correction,
A bill for establishing a uniform fvftem
of bankruptcy throughout the United
States, was read the fiHt and second time,
and referred to the committee of the whole
on Monday next Ordered, that 150 co
pies be printed.
Mr. Murray moved that the House
{hould take up, for a decision thereon, the
report of the lelect committee on the me
morial of the inhabitants of Baltimore.
Mr. Giles urged the superior claim to
attention of - the business relative to the
commercial regulations proposed by the
resolutions which have been under consi
deration. Some further remarks were of
fered on the motion—and then tjie ques
tion being put, it passed in the negative.
The house then resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole on the resolutions
proposed by Mr. Madison. Mr. Trum
bull in the chair.
The debate was renewed, and conti
nued till near the adjournment—when the
committee rose and reported progress.
A meflage was received from the Presi
dent of the United States, communicating
sundry extracts of letters received from the
American Minister at London. These
extracts were read—they announce in ge
neral terms, that the government and peo
ple of Great Britain discover a friendly
disposition towards the United States;
but that from their regulations in regard
to neutral veflels, our trade is very much
exposed—matters were however in a train
to ascertain facts, and obtain redress of in
juries. The letters also contain extracts
from the Britilh Admiralty regulations, in
regard to neutral veflels—and information
that Tufcany has been compelled to aban
don its neutrality in the war—that a de
mand has been made by a squadron of
Britifn and Spanish ships, that Genoa
(hould do the fame'—that a French frigate
and another veflel had been taken in the
port of that Republic—that the American
veflels from Philadelphia, Delaware and
Jersey, were obliged to ride quarantine for
14 days. The last letter was dated No
vember the nth.
The felefl committee, to whom was re
committed the military eflabliflimeiit bill,
brought in a report of several verbal
amendments—which were read and agreed
to, and the bill pafled to be engrossed.
A memorial was read from the dealers
in painters oyl and colours, praying that
an enhanced duty may be laid on similar
articles imported—laid on the table.
A report was read from the committee
to whom was referred the cafe of sundry
French veflels which took refuge in the
harbors of the United States the summer
past. This report, after reciting the va
rious circumftanccs of the cafe, propofts a
remission of the foreign tonnage duty.
No decision was had on this report,
when the house adjourned.
Tnurfday, Jan. 23
The bill for compleating and better
supporting the Military Eftablilhment of
the United States, was brought in engrof
fcd—the blanks therein filled up—and
pa(Ted.
The petition of T. Titccmb, praying
compensation for services performed du
ring the late war, was read—and on mo
tion of Mr. Goodhue, referred to the Se
cretary of War, with the accompanying
papers.
The petition of Jacob Johnson was pre
fentcd by Mr. Heiiter praying compensa
tion for public services—read, and on
motion of that gentleman, referred to a
fele£t committee of three members.—viz.
Mr. Heifler, Mr. P. Wadfworth, and Mr.
Niles.
In committee of the whole, on Mr.
Madison's Refutations.—Mr. Trumbull
in the chair.
The dtlwt* was continued till three
o'clock, when the committee rele, re
ported progress, and the houle adjourned*
* # * Our readers will correS an error
in fating the report of the committee appoint
ed to report the ways and means for defraying
the expences of theprojected navtd armament
f—TheJiatement ought to have defigtiatedthis
committee, as being specially appointed Jor this
particular object.
A Tetter from Baltimore to a gentleman
in this city, contains the following intelli
gence—That a Portuguese frigate arrived
at Gibraltar, brought accounts, that the
Algcrine fleet /had returned from their
cruise with u fail of American vtffela
prizes—Viz. four ships, five brigs and
two schooners—the names of them were
not then known, except that one was the
Preiident, of Baltimore, and the Thomas
of Boston—they have also taken three
Genoese polacres.
The American captains who are cap
tured have Tent dispatches, to be forwar
ded by the Portuguese si igate, to Meflrs.
John Bulkeley and Sons.
The Algerines were preparing for a fe
condcruile, in which they will appear in
greater force than in the firft.
FRENCH LOAN.
Nno-Tort, yon. I.
AN obliging Corretpondent ha; tur*
nifhed the public with the following state
ment of the debts due from the United
States to France, with the periods when
the refpeftive inftalmcnts become due.
o/" the French Loan from September
3> 1 793. Kfward.
Interest.
3. 8?,315,J0
5. 29,629,56
'• 55.555.5°
1793 Sept,
Nov
1794 Jan,
69,444.4°
Sept.
Nov.
22,222,20
1795 Jan
55.555.5°
55-555.5°
14.814.73
55.555.5°
41,666,60
7.4 0 7.36
55.555-5°
27.777.7°
46,296,27
13,888,80
Sept.
Nov
1796 Jan,
Sept.
Nov
1797 Jan,
Sept,
1798 Jan.
Sept,
Sept.
1799 Jan.
1800 Jan.
37.037.3
27.777.7 o
18,518,46
9,259,23
1801 Jan
1802 Jan.
CTJ" Complaints having been tr.ade that
the Southern fubferibers for this Gazette
do not receive it, till the intelligence has
been anticipated by papers previously re
ceived by other persons; they are inform
ed that the regulations at the Poll Office
in this city require that Printers (hould
depolit their papers there, the dav prece
ding the departure of the mail; this cir
cumstance gives opportunity to fonvardby
Franking, Tuesday, Thursday, and Satur
day Evenings' papers, and the papers of
Monday, Wednesday and Saturday morn
ings, on post days.
I'erfons at a distance who wish to re
ceive this Gazette, are ir.formcd that the
terms of subscription cannot be dispensed
with.—One half of the fubfeription ir.u
nev, for the half-weekly paper lately print
ed and circulated by the Editor to all psits
of the Union, is vet doe, either from tne
fubferiberj, or collectors—and an the ptlc
lication of a daily paper is attended with a
heavy expense—however solicitous the
Printer may be to difltminate ir.tclligeru.-e,
it will appear, that pel filling ill his foir. -'t
plan of fending his Gazette to every prr
fon who writes for it, without set tiling
the fubicriptiona will prove ruinous in the
extreme.
The Editor most earneftlr requcSs ihofe
who are indebted for his late publication,
to make immediate payment —particularly
those who have received the arrearages
from fubfcribcrs.—Some will recollect that
repeated aHurancea on this point, have uot
been realized.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot
IN an e ifliole fituat : o ■—: T c. Count' y Seat
within 6 miles of iw City, with9?ces ot"
land, or 42 acres of I a ret aid ire.ulow, the
Hoi Yc »s not exceeded by many in the vic.nlty
rc©.
January 23,
Principal.
2 77>777>7°
185,185,17
277.777.7°
185,185^7
2 77>777.7°
185.185,50
*77.777.73"
185,1 Sj," 7
185,185,17
2 77>777>7' J
185,185,17
22 7.777>7°
185,185,17
185,185,17
185,185,17
185,185,17
rn&th—tt'fuft Imported,
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
And now opening for lale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Marltt Jlrcct,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following
Nc.:V Annual Remitter for 1792
European Magazine for the fir ft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and fpir.lt
on chriOianity
Disney's life of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Mc-inty, a collection of efTays
Varieof Pruflia's works
Calm obfei vei—by Mackintosh
Ruil'-ll's ancient and mode n Europe
Langhome's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extract* of natural history
Sauguicr and Briflon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflo'j Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's tranflatior of BufFon
Berwick's hiiioty of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips** history of inland navigation
Hooper's Rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whit.iker's dtfence of queen Mary
Sheridan'* di&ionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kilfes of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's trajr&ls, with superb engravings
Downman infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on mat,erialifni and immarerialifm
Berchold's patriotic travellers
Builder's majrp^ine
Complete farmer
Oratidorr's life of Voltaire
De Nou's travels
Frankl'n's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's tranflarion of Tacitus
Godwin on pol tical justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vol*.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's (ketches of the history of man
Lib rat opinion?, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's Hardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of fotitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiment*
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. & Hid.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wan ley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wall s on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruffia,Poland,&c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of toe French revolution
Xife of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's oatlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of phytic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mufcies
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfbn's treatise on fevers
Lees botany, k
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
VichoWbn's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordvce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Hnller's physiology
Spalanzane'a dillertations
London pra&ice of phytic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
MONEY borrowed or leaned, accounts Ra
ted or collected, employers suited with
domestics, houfc rooms, boarding and lodging
•emed, let or procured-foldier's, manner's
or militia men'j pay, lands and claims on the
public ; (harea in the hanks, in ihecanals, and
•he turnpike road ; certificates granted by the
public, and the old and late paper monies •
notes of hand, hills, bonds and morgages, with
»r without depofiti—Bought, fold, 0 r cem
ented al No. 8, in fouih Si>th-ftreet, below
Market-ft.cn by FRANCIS WHITE,
Whotranfaft. business in tha public offi.ea for
country people and others, by virtue of a pow
•r n» attorney, or by perfonil application.
December 11 d
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying,
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
shortest notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coathees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chaits, and hurnefs
of evary description, in the neatcft and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best foa Poned
wood by hiin, and capital workmen, he has
not the least dou'»t but he will be able to give
fathfa&ion to tbofe whopleale to employ him
He has for sale, several carriages alinoft
finifhed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission,
Philadelphia, |an. 6, 1794. m&*3m
ALL per funs having any demand against
the Ellate and Eftetts of Mrs. MARY
SINDREY, widow, late of Frankford, Ox
ford township, in the State of Pennsylvania,
deceased; are desired to produce their ac
counts to Jacob Lesher and William Creed,
(in Frankford, uforefaid,) Executors and Ad
ministrators oi the above in order for settle
ment. And whoever is indebted to said Es
tate, Sec. are requested to make payment to
the aforefaid Administrators, on or before the
16 th of March, 1794, or they will be dealt
with according to law.
Frankford, Dec. 16,
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subfcribar intending to eonfinr hitnfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b<gs l« V e to of
frr his ferviccsto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may plcife
to favor hiro with their business, may deprnd
upon having it tranfafted with the utmost fido
lity and dispatch.
Orders Iroin Philadelphia, Bolton, or any
other part of the United States, will be ftrifliy
attended to. LEONARD BLKECKER
Encyclopedia, Vol. X,
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookseller, at the Stone House, in Second
ftreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionary
Of A ts, Sciences, and Miscellaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
Br iraiCH
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are digrjled into the form of
Diftinft Treaties-or Systems :
volume contains principles ofLeveli
. , Literty, Doftdne of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
don Longitude, Luther, Lrdia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage,. Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nic', with a great variety of Biographical and
Milcellaneous articles, illullrated with T»a,-
tv two Copperplates.
As a number o» families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. Dobfon, (elicits the favor
o« the fubfenbers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poihble. J
The tenth tolumi of the Eiievdlooedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an impcrfeft state, some ac
count ot the reason of that imperfection fliould
be jiren. On the Bth of September last, tlie
Pubhlher had the misfortune of having his
Printing-Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed
and among other articles, the Ftouiis, with
which he was printing the ta»lu or lo
oaritkmi, belonging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, lie was under the neceflity of pi ,b
liming the volume without the e tajlei; but
hopes he (hall be able to publilh them with tin
next volume which is now io conliderable for
wardnefs.
The Publilher embraces this opportunity of
exprefling hit grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa _
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing ,o fiich of the subscribers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necefllty of
pnnftuality, both in taking up ,he volume, as
ejrly as poflible after publication, and of pay
mg for them wj.en taken. Many of the full
fcribers having got only one, two, three, 1-c.
volumes, and several volumes remain unpaid
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
trom the comnicn«ein«nt; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles iwmd lays the Publilher under
very ftrious «mbarraflme>rt, and deprives him
of the nfe of many Thousands of Dollars which
at (hit time would be of very eflential ferrice
For these reasons the Publilher finds himfelf
under the neceflity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and ia future no vo
lumes will be delivered but »nlv to thsfe who
take and pay to the time of publication.
C««lKr .1. ~W UJ
A New Publication
JUST PUBLISHED,
Aud to be fold by
R. A IT KEN,
No. 22, MarketJlrcet,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philadelphia, for promoting Ufirful
Knowledge, Vol. 3. Pi ice tof in boards
The fubferibers are requeued to call
as above directed for the 3d vol. where may
be had, complete setts uniformly printed.
Contents of Vol. 3d.
1. An essay on those enquiries in Natural Phi
losophy, which at prelent are mod benefici
al to the United States of North America.
Dr. Nicholas Collin,
2. Conjeiftures concerning the formation of
the earth, &c. Dr. B. Franklin.
3. A new and curious theory of Light and
Heat. Dr. B. Franklin.
4- Description of the process to be obfirrved
in making large (heetsof paper in the Chi
nese manner, with one smooth furface.
Br. B. Franklin.
5. Queries and conjectures relative to Mag
netism, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
6. Explanation of a lingular phenomenon, firft
observed by Dr Franklin, and not fatisfac
torily accounted for. Mr. R. Fatterjon.
7. An account of an Earthy Substance found
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls; together with
some remarks on the Falls.
Robert M k CauJiny M. D.
8. Observations on the probabilities yf the
duration of Human Life, and the progress
of population,in-the United Sratesof Ame
rica. Hi 11 tan Barton, Eft.
9* A letter containing observations made at
Lake Erie, on that lingular phenomenon,
by seamen termed looming.
And rem Ellicot Eft.
10. An Account of the Sugar Maple-Tree
of the United States, and of the methods
of obtaining Sugar from it, together with
observations upon the ad vantages both pub
lic and private of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rush y M.D.
11. Memoir on the use of the Thermometer
in difeovering Banks, Soundings,
Jonathan Willigms, Esq.
12. An Account of the most effectual means
of preventing the deleterious confcquences
of the bite of the Crotalus Horridus, or Rat
tle Snake. fie„ja)nin Smith Barton, M. D.
»3- Magnetic Observations, made at the Uni
versity of Cambridge, (MafTachufetts.)
Dr. S. H'lllia.fgs.
14. Accurate determination of the right af
eenfion and declination of Bootes, and tho
Pole Star. Andrew Ellkott, Eft.
15- Account of several Houses in Philadelphia,
struck with Lightning, on June 7 th, 1789.
David Rittetihouf,>, Eft.
16. An Account of the effe&t of a stroke of
Lightning on a Houle furnilhed with two
Conductors. David Rittenhoiifc, and Francis
Hopkinfon, Eftrs.
t&ftf.
17. Experiments and Observations on Evapo
ration in cold Air. C. Wijiaxy M.
18. Postscript to Mr. Barton's Letter 'to
Dr. Rittenhnufe, of the 17, of March, i 7 91.
19. New Notation of Music.
ASr. /?. Patterfon.
20. Obfervationt on the Theory of Water
Mill*, &rc. W. Waring.
19. Agronomical Obfervationr.
David Rittcnhcvfc,
2D. A letter relative to a method of finding
the sum of the several powers of the Sines,
c * David Rittcnhoufcy Esq.
21. Index Florae Lancaftrieufis.
Henrko Muhitnlcrg, D. D.
22. Investigation of the power of X)r. Bar
ker's Mill, as improved by James Rumfey,
with a description of the mill. W. baring.
23. A Thermometrical Journal of the tem
perature of the Atmosphere and Sea, on a
voyage to and from Oporto, with explana
tory observations thereon.
Jonathan Williams, Eftj.
24. First memoir oftjofervations on the plants
denominated Cryptogamick.
M. Dc Beauvois.
25. A letter, containing observations on the
ancient works of Art, the Native Inhabu
tants, &c. of the Western Country.
Major Jonathan Htart.
26. An account of fonie of the principal dies
employed by the North American Indians.
Extracted by the late Mr. Hugh Martin.
27. An account of" the beneficial etfe&s of the
C.aflia Chamzcrifta in recruiting worn-out
lands, and in enriching fnch as are natural,
ly poor ; together with a botanical descrip
tion of the plant.
Javtel Grcentvay tf Virginia.
18. An account of a hill on the borders of
North Carolina, supposed to have been a
volcano, in a letter from a Continental of
ficer, to Dr. J. Greeitway, Virginia.
29. An Accouotof a poilonnus plant, grow
ing spontaneously in the southern part of
Virginia. Extracted from a paper by
. / )r - 7am, Grrnwav, Virginia,
30. Description ol a Machine for meafiinna a
fiiip's way. Fr.nci, H,pk,nJon, ffq.
3 t. An Inquiry into the question, whether (he
Apis Meliifica, or true Honev-Bee, is a na
five of America. Benjamin M J)/iton,M.l).
33. An Account of a o>mer.
David Rittcnhnfi, Ift.
33. Cadmus or a Treatifeon the Elements of
Written Language, illustrating, by a Philo
fophica! divi/ion of Speech, rhe power of
each character, thereby mutually fixing the
Orthography and Orthoepy. With an EfTay
«n the mode »f teacliin S the Deaf, or Spid 1
and coi&qnently >Dumb to fpesk, by \v.-„
Thornton, M. D. Honored with the Ma
gellanic Gold Medal, by the Philolophicul
Society, in December, 1792 N, j>
Cadmu is printed in a fiitg 8. vol. and fold
by the Publilher hereof.
34- Obfervatiom on the Theory of Water
Mills. ly '
35- An ImproTem'iit on Metalic ConduftorT
or Lightning-rods. Mr. Ktht: Vau,rj,r
Honored with the Magellanic Premium by
an Award of the Society in December i ;'o2.
36. and expeditious method rf'dif
fipating the noxious Vapour commonlT
found in Well, and other fubterraneons
P ,ac "- Ucneztr Roiinfon, tfy.
37- A method of draining Ponds in level
grounds. J e jj r
38. Observations on the severity of the win
®er» >779. 1780. Rev. AUti/iew WHJor.t
39- A . Description of a new Standard for
Weight! and Measures; io a letter from
Mr. John Cooke, of Tippet ary in Ireland
43, Defcripiion of a Sprino-Block, designed
to aflift a VeJTel in failing, friven Hopkin.
fan, EJtj. Honored with the Magellanic
Gold Medal, by an Award of the Societv
in December 1790.
Dcamber 21.
ADVERTISEMENT
the benefit of those who maybe con-
X cerned it may not be improper to notice,
that the United States, bytheirAft ofthe l»tb
of February 1793, ordered that all Claims of
the description therein mentioned, and which
originated previous to the 4th of March 1789:
be profented at the Treasury on or before the
tint day of May 1794, otherwise they will
for ever thereafter, be barred, and exclu
ded from settlement or allowance." And
as there may be several Creditors ofthe Uni
ted States, holding Certificates or other Se
curities, which form » part of the Domeftie
Debt, and who wifti to fubferibe to the Loan
they are reminded that the term for receiving
fubferiptions at the Treasury, is by the Ast of
the United States, pal Ted thefecond of March
lair, extended to the last day of June, 1794.
The following is an extaft from the Ast of
Limitation above referred to :
Section I. "Be it enacted by the Senate
and House of Representatives of the United
Mates of America, in Congress a/Tembled—
That all claims upon the United States, for
Services or Supplier, or for t*fher cause, mat
ter or thing, furnifhed or done, previous to
the 4th day of March 1789, whether founded
upon Certificates, or other written document*
from Public Officers or otherwise, which have
not already been barred by any Ast of Limi
tation, and which ihall not be presented at
Treasury before the firft day of May 1794
lhall for ever after be barred and prescribed
from settlement or allowance : Provided
that nothing herein contained, shall be con!
ft rued to sffeft Loan-Office Certificates, Cer
tificates of Final Settlements, Indents of Ip
tercft, Balances entered in the books of the
register of the treasury commonly called regis
tered certificates,loans of monies obtained in
foreign countries, or certificates ifTued pursu
ant to the Ast, intitled u An Ast, making pro
vision for the Debt of the United States.
advertisement.
?Jr i VI R virtue of a Writ to tmt
Suflex Couuty. (T. 5 Ddirefted, iJTucd out of
the Court of Chancery ol New- Icrfcv, at
the suit of William Shipley against John Mina
and otbeis; I (hall expofc to Meat hi bin Ven
due, on the sixth day of February next, between
the hours of Twelve and Five in the Afternoon
ol .he lame day, on the Pr.mtfe.,th« followin.
defer,bed Traflof Land, with it. appurtenance,
situate m the Townlhip of Oxford and County
o. SulTex, beginning at a Cbefnut Oak Tree, cor
ncr ot Darnel Cox's land, and ft.mding in the
line of a foimer survey made to Thomas Steven,
foo, being marked with the letter B. and thenre
extending along C»xe's line (firft) lomh filty de
grees weg fifry.fi,e chain, and (evenly.five link»
to a Black Oak Tre.corner ol Joseph Shippen"*
land (Tccond) south nine degrees and fifteen mi
nutes, weft ninety chains and sixty fi,e links to
a forked Whitt Oak Tree, marked with the let
ters R and K another of the said Sbippen'i cor
ner. (third) thence north eighty degrees call one
hundred and forty.fiv; chains, t. , po st on , he
southerly fide of Paqoaolte-River, being also «
corner of John Reading's land (lourth) thence
north thirty-nine degrees weft, one hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place of beginning
containing nine hundred and thirty acres wit"
the usual allowance for roads and'hiTl, wl ~,_
The fame Prcmifes are within eight miles of the
River Delaware, and there is thereon a convem.
ent Grift Mill wuh two pair or Stones—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fufceient ftrtam of
water for thei, use—a Dwelling House. Store
House, and several small buildings.
MARK THOMPSON,Sheriff.
Dated »jd day of July, i 7
E. Oswald,
No. 156, Market-Street, South,
A T the reqoert of a number of friends,
•«. x proposes publilhing The Independent
Gazetteer, twice a week, viz Wednefdavs
and Saturdays—tocomtnence in January next
ifuimcienc encouragement offers '
It will be publiiiied on Paper and Types
equal to its p,tit-.,t appearance. The fsb>
ferlptioii 3,5 dollars per ann.
Advertilements not exceeding a fquai'e
will be inl'erted 4 times for i dollar—ever*
continuance oiie fifth of a dollar. Those u.
ceeding a fq.iary, in the fame proportion.
PHILADELPHIA ,
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Foiirtfa-Strcst.
eod2w,