evening advertiser.
[No. 56 of Vol. V.]
price CURRENT. bu,. as. diu. as.
*«* ttfANTiTT.-Dollars too Ctrms each. Oil» pltt» pr cafe 5 o
Sweet, best, in flafks,pr.box 10 5
PHILADELPHIA, Feb. i 5, 1794. Dmo balket., 14 bottle. ,0
—"—Spermaceti pr. gall. 48
"3'rain per barrel 10 ci
Dili. Its. DUt.Ch. Whale s ,
MCHORS pr.lh. 7 10 _ „ 4 33
Allum, Englilh, pr.cwt. 43,3 Porter pr. cask i 33
D.tto, Roch pr. lb. .. Undon, pr.doz. ■So
Ashes, pot, perton, no —American diuo bot.ibel. ,8,
-Pearl, .34 140 7 £" c . h - P'- bbl - «73 «
Arrack pr. Mil. 131 116 Pork > Burlington, per barrel, lg
Brandy, common, ioo ,ao Lower c<w«y „
—Comae .30 .40 p ~~ C Vu u n. , 10
Braziteuo,pr. ton. JO P«s, Albany pr. bulhel ,
Brick,, pr. M. 4 7 p fpF> "' pr " Ib " 4°
Bread, ftlip, pr.cwt. 2 67 P "" n,n •«
Ditto, pilot 5 Raisins, brft, pr. keg 7
Ditto, small wafer, per keg 36 40 Ditto pr.jar 2
Beer, American, in bottles, Ditto pr. box 33
pr.doz. bottles included, 1 74 R«ce pr.cwt. 2 20
Ditto pr. barrel, 6 Rosin pr. i»arre! 278
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 90 Rum, Jamaica,pr. gallon jl6
'N'ew England to 14 Antigua l
—Oak 14 16 Windward *
— Merchantable pine 20 24 Barbjdocs g
■ ■ Sap, do. 1067 Country, N. E. 4 6c
Mahogany, perfoot 10 Salt petre, pr. cwt. x a 4
The aboveare the shallop prices, Saffafras pr. ton 6 8
for the yard pricc, add 1 dol- Shot ditto , .0 aai
' ar 33 cents per 1000. Steel, German pr, lb. £
Brjmftone in rolls, pr.cwt. 2 Engl *h,bliftered, pr. cwt. to
Beef, Boston, per barrel 10 11 Ametican pr. ton *13
- Country ditto 9 10 7 Crowley's pr. faggot 10 67
"Frefb, per cwt. 333 467 na ke root pr. lb. 10 40
Butter pr.lb. 25 S° a p, Brown per Jb. 6
in kegs 15 18 White 8
Candles, Sperm, pr.lb. 48 Castile XJ
Wax 43 56 St *rch 7
■ -Myrtle Wa.x , , 8 pr. doz. hot. 4 5 60
Mould, tallow 16 Spermaceti, refined, pr.lb. 48
—- Dipped 14 Sailcloth,Englifh,No.i,pr. yard, 40
Cheese, Engti/h, pr. lb. 25 Boston, No. I. ditto 06
Country 10 i?_ No. 11. or
Chocolate 16 18 Sugar Lump, pr.Jb i"j
Cinnamon ? 4° 2 6 7 Loaf, fmgle refined 22
Cloves 1 33 Ditto, double do. 00
Cocoa pr.cwt. 10 11 Havannah, white 12 ,4
Coffee pr.lb. '6 Ditto, browft, j® ~
Coal pr, bushel 24 33 -Muscovado. pr. cwt. 9 S 2
Copperas pr.cwt. 1 67 SpiritsTurpentine-pr.gallon
Cordage, American, per cwt. 9 10 37 Salt, Allum pr. buftiel 8c
Cotton pr.lb. 27 12 Liverpool lC c
Currants Cadiz 8c
Duck,Ru(Tia, pr. picee 14 Lisbon g c
.. »
feathers pr. lb. 5° Ditto red cedar, per foot 97 4 c
'lax ditto tt 12 Shingles, 18 inch, per M. o qq 2 67
Flaxfeed pr. bulh. 80 9° Ditto 2 feet. 6 50 6
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel 6 6 33 Ditto 3 feet, drefled, 13
■Common, 567 6 Staves, Pipe pr. 1000
—Bur middlings, bell 5 33 White Oak hogshead, 20 jjq
Meal, Indian 2 5 2 Red Oak do.
• ditto Rye, 267 Leogan 21 „o
Shtp-ftuff pr. cwt. 1 40 1 67 Barrel jg
Fustic pr. ton, 20 Heading
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 4 66 skin «» Otter, best pr. piece 467
Do. pr. gall. 90 -Minks 20
Glue, pr.cwt. 20 11 33 * ox, gray '40 80
Ginger, white race, per lb. 12 Ditto red , 2 o
Ditto, common 8 Martins 24 t
Ditto, ground pr. lb. 10 ' Fifhcrs 67
Ginseng, 20 24 Bears
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.caflc, 3 73 4 Racoonr 27 go ,
Ditto, fine glazed 4 Mnfk-rats 11 20 I
Grain, Wheat pr. bulh 100 110 Beaver, pr. lb. 67 133
Rye 70 —Deei, in hair 20 30
Oats 35 Tar,N.Jerfey, 24gal.p.bbl. 1
Indian corn 56 Carolina, 32 gall. 2 1
"Barley 1 1 10 Turpentine pr. bW. 2 f
Bed fhelledpr. lb. 7 Tobacco,. J. River, best 10010. 4 33 (
Buckwheat, per bulh. 40 inferior 333 j
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, i 6« 150 old 467 -
American, pr. lb. 5 7 Rappahannock 3 33
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 Coloured Maryland, 5 33 8
Hides, raw pr.lb. 9 Dark, 2 4 ©
Hops 13 Long-leaf 2 40 J
Hogshead hoops, pr. M. 15 Eastern-shore 2 2 ?3
. , , . Carolina,new 27 9
Indigo, French per lb. 1 67 , . ' 1
f arolina * '80 Tea.Hvfon pr. lb. 93 ? J
I*.n. fad pr. ton, .3333 H yson (k,n, ?! 60 "•
Iron C.a.ngs pr. e«t. 3 4 Souchong, $ q° h
Bar pr. ton, » i 66 r „ 4 Ha „
Pig g ' 43 50
cl Bohea, ofi
v c .« l , Tallow, refined, per lb. q
7— Na,lrod ' 100 33 Tin. pr. box, P I 2„ „6? -
J.nk pr.cwt 4 5 Verdigreafe Jr. lb. 333 360
Lard, hog. pr. lb , 2 vermiilion, do. ,67
Lead,in pig, pr. cwt. t33 567 Varnin , pcrga „on 33 37
5 . Wax, Bee. pr.lb. 2 3 f \l
white 10 10 67 1 w 1 1. 0 7 ,
rcd 640 g6; Whale-bone, long pr.lb. ,3 3 o }
Leather, foal, pr.lb. 17 20 Wine, Madeira,pr. pipe, 176 226
Lignum vita: pr.ton, 7 — Lisbon 120 126
Logwood 30 Tcneriffe,pr. gallon 63
Mace pr. lb. 9 Fayal
Mackarel, bell pr.bbl. 9 Port pr. pipe **3 33 D
' .second quality 4 Ditto in bottles,pr.doz. 4
Madder, bed pr. lb. 16 20 Claret 46^
Marble, wrought,pr. foot, 133 267 Sherry jpr.gall. 90 12c
Mast spars ditto 33 Malaga 77 80
Molafles pr.gall. 33 41 COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Mustard per. lb. 87 On London, at 30 days, per £.ioofterl. 466 f ni
—flour, in bottles, pr.doz. 1 20 a ' 60 days 463 $ f 1(
Nails, Brf. iod. izd. and iod. pr.lb. 10 at 90 aays 4 6i j
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 8 Amsterdam, 60 days, pr.gtiilder t 4s t^(
Oil, Linfccd, pr. gall. 55 90 day*, 4 p b(
— Olive 87 Government bills, drawn at 10 day* tQ
fight, at 42c per guilder.
lUfecffe of tlje IfJmfell
Saturday, February 15, 1794.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfkeads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter caflcs,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. lit, South Front llreet.
Jan. 2, 1794.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths & Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
Jin elegant AJfortment of
SILVER y PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY isffine CUTLERY,
Which they will dispose of on the most rea
sonable terns. Devices in hair, Miniatures
' * nd «very thing in the gold and lilvei
way, done as nfual.
December 24.
THE 1 rufteesof an Academy,
or any individual wifliing to engage a
per on to superintend the Education of youth,
111 the course of studies usually adopted iu
Academies, or any branch of business requir
ing Umilar qualifications, may open a com
munication with a perlon willing to be em
ployed a few years (for a generous compenfji
tion) by writing (letters to be port paid) to
Mr. John Fijwo, Philadelphia.
Printers to the Southward would possibly
oblige some oj their friends, oy injtrting theforegoing
a Jew times in their papers.
February 8. j. „
City Commissioners Office,
January 30, 1794.
JN pursuance of a Refolvc of the Common
Council, dated the »oth.d*y of January,
1794. for dividing the City into five DiftVifts,
by lines drawn East and Weft, whereof each of
the City Commissioners is to take the fuperin
tendanee of one of the said Diftr.fts, and to be
accountable tor the cleaning, good order and
regularity of the fame.
The Commissioners have accordingly made
the following arrangement for the prefer.!:
Dijlrifl the \Ji. Nathan Boys, to have the
charge of that part of the streets, lanes and alley,
from Cedar-street, to the north fide of Spruce
ftreet. 1
DiJlriEi the id. Hugh Roberts, from the north
fide of Spruce-street to the north fide of Walnut
ftrert.
J°^ C Claypoole, from the
north fioe of Walnut to the south lide of
street. 6
Diflrift the 4tk. William Moulder, from the
north fide of High, to the north fide of Mulberry
street 7
DiJlrtß the S th. Nicholas Hicks, from the
north iide ot Mulberry, to the nor:h fide of Vine
street.
Ext* aflfrom the Minutes,
JOHN MEASE, Clerk.
N B. The carriage way in Market-street, is
under the charge of the Commissioners generally,
for the present, the foot-ways on the north and
south fides thereof, are connected with the ad
joining Diftridls refpedively.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegantHoufe,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of Jand and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Coffee-Houfe of this
City :—
RfcSPECTFULLY informs his Friend* and
the Public i" general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippen-Strcet, be
tween Third and Fourth-Streets, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timpionj, which
has lately been greatly improved, and is now
very commodious ; where he has furnilhed him
felf with the best of LIQUORS, and will fur
nilh a TABLE for Parties, with the best provi
sions the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
Ihorteft notice. From his long experience in
this line of business, h<?flatters himfelf he (hall
be able to give fattsfa&ion to all who may pleafr
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 291*794.
[Whole No. 514.]
PROCEEDINGS
IN THE
LEGISLATURE of SOUTH-CAROLINA,
AT THEIR LAST SESSION*
Mr. E. Rutledge reported from the
committee on privileges and ele£ion9, to
whom was referred the confederation of
thepropriety of Dr. Jacob Robert Brown'®
retaining his feat in this house, as a mem
ber thereof, which was read and ordered
to be taken into immediate consideration,
which being read through, is as follows,
viz.
Report, that m obediencfc to the or
ders of this house, the committee fat as
soon as this house adjourned, and having
required the attendance of the said Dr.
Brown, they informed him " that a com-
mittee to whom was referred the business
of examining into, and ascertaining the
truth of a report, that an armed force was
levying within this state, by persons under
a foreign authority, without the permis
sion, and contrary to the express prohibi
tion of the government of the United
States, and of this state had reported,
that they had- enquiry ref
pefting the truth of the said report, and
that they were perfectly fatisfied from
the information on oath, of divers cre
dible persons, that he, Dr. Brown, had
received and accepted a military com
miflion from Genet, minister plenipotenti
ary from the republic of France, autho
lizing him, among others, to raise and
organize troops, within the states of A
merica.
mw&ftf
Your committee further informed the
said Dr. Brown, that by the 2iftfe&ion
of the lit article of the conftitutron, it
was declared, " that any member of the
legislature, who (hould accept of any
place of profit or trust, under a foreign
power, ihould thereby vacate his feat."
To this information, Dr. Brown an
swered, " that he had not accepted of
any commiflion, either civil or military,
or any place of profit or trull, under any
foreign power."
That he had sworn to support the con
stitution, and knew as a member of the
house, that the acceptance of a commif.
fion under a foreign power, would vacate
his feat. That true it was, a foreign
commission had been proposed to him,
and a paper stating the pay, rations, pro
portion of spoil, numbers of men to be
raised, and battalions, divilions of land,
and other particulars, had been put into
his hands for his consideration, which
paper he kept for some time, and on the
day on which he was to give his answer,
he declined accepting the commission, and
refufed to have any thing to do in the
bufincfs.
That moreover, to fatisfy his wife,who
was much averse to his being engaged in
that affair, and who pressed him to burn
the paper above mentioned, he threw the
fame into the fire, where it was consumed
in her presence, and in that of another
person who had come to receive his final
answer. Your committee are therefore
of opinion that the said Jacob Robert»
Brown, be admitted to his feat. The re
port being read chrongh, a motion wa»
made and seconded, that the report be re
committed for further inveftigation,which
was agreed to.
m&th—tf
Mr. E. Rutlcdge reported ftom the
committee on privileges and elections, to
whom the report on the cafe of Doctor
Brown Vas recommitted, for the purpose
of ascertaining the length of time of
which he was poflefTed of the paper men
tioned in the report, and also to ascertain
the day on which he burnt the fai'd pa
per.
The report stated, that they had Dr.
Brown before them ; that lie said, « the
day on which he burnt the paper, was on
Friday or Saturday previous to the day to
which the legislature flood adjourned; hut
with refpeet to the length of time which
he was poflefTed of the said paper, he de
clared his reluctance to mention, as hewas under the obligation of honor, and ap
c iih o\ kcrccy, which be might. be led
to violate." hut «n a reprefentatiori from
tiie committee, by their chairman, Dr.
Drown declared he was puflcfled of the
i iid paper for about one month.
Your committee therefore recommend,
tl»at the report be amended according
ly. The report being amended, the qtlei
tion was put to agree to tlie lame. It was
refolvcd in the aiiirmative.
J'or the G.iZi-Tff of the UmTKD Sj -iTr.S,
Mr. Fenko,
Among the many astonishing concomi
tants of the French Revolution, it is cer
tainly not the leatt, that though all en
lightened perlons unite in pronouncing it,
the hfblinwlt effort of human wisdom and
virtue, yet we do not find, among; tlie
characters which have been engaged in it,
any one, to whom we can attach alafting
elteem. Numbers it is true, have had
their day, and each in histurn, has been the
fugitive theifie newspaper panegyric :
but h'g t H has ftcvef been marked with
Z.iy fymptonw of regret or commiseration.
Thirt Fayette, Mirabeau,. Luckner, Du
mourier, retion, Morvtefquicu* KUler
r.an, Bnffot, Condoicet, jigalite, Pclle
tier, Marat, Santerre, Byron, Culline &
Hoi,chard, have successively figured as Pa
triots and-Heroes; and yet, we consign
tliem to t'verr fate, (whether ♦merited or
not) with as little remorse, as, in the
p'lrafe of FJitafl, u we drown blind pup
pies fifteen o' the litter."
Tiiis fngular phenomenon, however it
maybe milcunftrued by the (hort sighted,
is appreciated by the discerning, as the
fliongcll poflible pr6of et tlie purity of
the prevailing principles, Cac'e the judg
ment is in no danger of being daziled by
(lie virtues and impof/rig qualities of iHui
triouJ ehara&era ; ancj it a?lo evinces the
propriety of the new idea, of toasting sen
timents instead of men, in our civic enter
tainments. It exhibits a!fo. one striking
diutKncebetween the Aineriean& French
Revolution. For as, in the dlie, the names
of Waftington, Montgomery, arid others,
threw a lull re upon a cause, which at that
comparatively dark period, was generally
Called a Rebc/jon, so in the upiverfnlly
acknowledged sroodnefs of the latter cause,
we find an ample reiource for any deficien
cies that may he found in th?aftor3, and
detedl the fall r.cy of that old, ivorm-eaten
maxim, of there being " no public with
out private virtue," /-
In other countries without doubt, some
patiiotifm ir.sy be found in the breads of
individual, but the patriotism of France,
appears to be a pure, etherial, fiibtile
principle, too volatile so be fiifceptible of
long appropriation, and'fo liltie attached
to persons, as to be in no danger oftiying
with them. Like joint tenancy, (" tic
ertferit fuperjlilitmtit accrues to the
fnrvivor; and exterminate as many patriots
as you please, the principle only revives
with additional vigor in the successor.—
A"d hcnce O dillce Nome* Libertatis f
Thy reigning advocates are always right,
and though the King himfelf Was once a
patriot, and Fayette, .~nd Petion and Ro
land and Bri(Tot and Condorcet, &c. &c.
yet Roberfpferre is now the belt patriot
of them all, and whether he (hall continue
to be the belt in France, fecms really to
depend more upon the operations of the
Guillotine, th-an upon any other principle,
moral or phyfscal, chat is yet discovera
ble.
CONGRESS
House of Rcprefcntati-des,
Janua.y 25.
In committee of the whole on Mr. Ma J fin's
refdutions.
Mr. Hili.house's speech concluded.
The Indian \v,?r is also charged upon
Great-Britain, and that is urged as a rea
son for adopting these refolutionp—has
any member produced any evidence, are
we p,,flWTed of any proof to support this
charge ? It is an hnportant principle of a
free government, that no man (hall be
condemned imhtvrd ; i 7 we admit this
principle in regard to an individual, why
not allow it to a nation ? Have we ever
chargcd Great-Britain as being the initi
ator of those injuries we have experienc
ed from the depredations committed on the
inhabitants of our Western frontiers bvthe
savages ? It has been supposed by some,
that a part at least v.as chargeable upon
our own inhabit anti on the frontiers ; (hall
we without having remondrated, wage
war with Great-Britain ? surely we ought
to demand fatisfaftkni, before we attempt
to retaliate, or make reptilals.
The Algerint war he laid, was another
ground of complaint against Greit-Bri
ta.n, it ij said to have been brought about
by her .ices; he was aware he said,
it would be unpopular to divert the resent
ment that had been excited on this ac
count ; but his ftluatiou made it his duty
to examine the lubject, which he had done,
and could discover nothing in the condutf
of Great-Britain in this buiinefs, which
was inconliitant with the law of nations—-
and altho" the United States may feel a
present smart, yet we ought not to let our
momentary feelings lead us to a decilion
which may be attended with ftridus con
sequences ? Great-Britain is, and for a
long time has been in close alliance' and
friendOnp with Portugal and Holland ;
they are in some meafme dependant on
her, they are now combined rn one com
mon cause again (I Fiance—Great-Britain
therefore in making a truce with the Al
gerincs, £>r Portugal and Holland, has
done no more than to let her allies free
front the depredations of pirates, in order
that the whole force of thofejaations might
be in a better Ik uation to be called into
action, if necefiary against their common
enemy—were either of t'nefe nations un
der Any obligation to block up the Al
gcrines fur us ; it is true,, we fuffer by it,
,but have we any right to complain ? there
is no evidence that Great-Britain was in
fluenced by motives hostile to us; other
reasons can be afligned for her conduct—
and (hall we without pretty strong evi
dence, adopt r.ieafurcs- by way of retali
ation ? and that too, before we have called
on Great-Britain for air explanation of her
conduA.—When the representatives of
the people ef the United States, are
called upon to decide a question of such
importance to the peace and happiness of
this country, they ought to divest them
selves of all refentful feelings ; and even
supposing Great-Britain has violated the
treaty, and done us all the injuries com
plained of, ought we not to exercise mo
deration, and begin by remonstrating ?—
then if flie would not do us justice, and
redress our wrongs, he would be as ready
as any member to vindicate the honor of
his country, bYrt was not for precipitating
meafurcs in such' a manner, as would be
condemned by the impartial world.
Another complaint hac been Hated, ref
pefting the depredations committed on
our commerce by British privateers : It is
doubtlefe true, that those excesses Ikul
been carried to great lengths; it was also
in evidence, that some of the British fcourts
of law, had offered redress, and given am
ple damages : perlKips other instances may
be attended with like fuceefs—But on
this head, as well as the former items of
complaint, there had beeh no proper de
mand made by the Executive of the United
States, and there had not yet been time
for us reasonably to expect either an an
swer or fatisfaftion—Privateering he laid,
was a fort of piracy, and he wished it was
abolished iu all wars, among civilized na
tions ; but as long as it is permitted, neu
tral powers mud expect to fuffer more or
less inconvenience and injury—there have
been depredations committed by the fub
jefts of every nation, on particular occa
sions, that could not be juftified, and which
it was not m their power to restrain
France, as well as Great-Britain, may be
charged with like injuries ; and the United
States would not be exempted from such
a charge—our privateers frequently did
the fame thing, when we were in a ft'at'e
of war—indeed we have found it difficult
in all instances, to restrain even our fron
tier inhabitants from committing depreda
tions upon the Indians ; and yet we have
not been disposed to have those excesses
charged upon the United States.
Our flour trade to France is also inter
rupted, this he said he believed to be in
violation of the law of nations—but what
csn we do when so many of the powers of
Europe are combined in this measure if
we (hould Judge it prudent to seek redress,
ought we not to follow the example set us
more than a century ago by Denmark and
Sweden,, quoted for our imitation by the
gentleman from Virginia, (Mr. Giles)
which was, as will be found in the firft
article of their convention, to fend a spi
rited remanftrance, and if that did not a*-
fwer the purpol'e, then it would be time
enough to take other meafttres to do our
felresjuftice—he ttcpreffed it as his decid
ed opinion, that titter meaturrs migfet
be adopted for obtaining redress than were
contained in the resolutions on the table.
We will now consider whst is to be the
operation of these proposed measures, and
if there is not a great degree of probabili
ty, and indeed almtill a ccrtainty that
they will produce the effect that is intend
ed, they ought not to be adopted—it is
fuppofrd they will operate in three ways
upon Great Britain—firft by leflening our
imports from Great Britain, and by that
means throwing her manufacturers out of
employ—secondly, by withholding our
exports, and thereby starving her into a
compliance, and thirdly, by injuring her
navigation.
As to the firft, this above all others,
was the moll improper time for attempt
ing a thing of the kind. Properly tim
ing public measures, was of great impor
tance towards ensuring success. It was
not from the manufacturers but the mer
chants that we received our supplies in the
firft instance—it was a thing of no im
portance to the manufacturer whether the
manufactures were imported into this
country, or whether'they were buried in
the ocean, or whether they were sent to
other nations
As to our obtaining supplies from
France, there was no probability of that,
they have prohibited the exportation of
their woolen cloths to enable them to sup
ply their domel'lic wants during the present
war. All we could cxpeci from them is
silks, ribbons, &c. which are by no means
neceflary the United States. It is
therefore altogether likely the British ma
manufactures would {till find their way
into this country, by a circuitous rout ;
but should this not be the cafe, would not
the British merchants be able to find other
markets at this time, equal to our con
sumption ?
The present convulsed ftatc of France,
and war in Europe, has taken off a mul
titude of hands from every occupation,
and has destroyed many flourifhing manu
factories, which will for the present open
a door for the manufactures of Great Bri
tain. And even France, will not hesitate
to use such as they want, if they cannot
otherwise get a supply—as the people of
the United States did during their revo
lution, who went so far in some instances
as to smuggle them in, in violation of the,
law—and there were some instances, in
which they were obtained for the use of
the army from within the British lines at
New-York, under the sanction of the go
vernment.
Germany, Spain, Holland, and other
powers at war, will also afford a market
for Biitifii goods, so that they will not
be at a loss for a market nor will their
manufacturers be either starved or mat e
rially injured—and would have no other
effect than to turn their trade into ano
ther channel. If the resolutions are to
have their intended effect in this way,
they muff much lelfen if not wholly pre
vent the importation of British manufac
tures ; it would therefore be much prefera
ble at once to adopt a non-importation
agreement.—Here he a/lced if it v,-as in
the power of the government to carry
such measures into execution ?
The experience of 1774 ought to pre
vent our hastily adopting measures that
might for a time Magnate if not wholly
interrupt our trrde. When our grain
could not be exported the consequence
would be, it would bear a very low price,
and the farmers would be left a prey to
domed ic speculation of those who might
expect such measures could not last long,
if we were to commence the conflict
which the adoption of thele Resolutions
would moll probobly bring on-—he was
apprehensive we should fall in the conflict,
and it would end to our difad vantage.
It is said our exports are the necefia
ries of life, and our imports are the fu
perfluities, and therefore we can dictate
our own terms, and Great Britain will be
forced into a compliance. One gentle
man from Virginia, (Mr. Moore) ground
ed his whole argument on fhis supposi
tion, which he finds to be fallacious
The opinion Mr. H. has of the candor
of that gentleman, induced him to hope
he would give a different vote. With re
gard to our exports being so neceffarv to
the existence of Great Britain, he obser
ved, that file exported flour, salted provi
sions, and almost every other article of
food that we did ; and it wiD not be pre
tended that tobacco was a neceffarv of
life—he had never found it so—never ha
ving made any use of it, he viewed it a
luxury. n
Our timber and naval-stores, are carri
ed to Great Britain under protecting du
ties :—Thcfe articles could be supplied
from Sw'eden and Ruflia. Oar rice was
used as a luxury—our pot and pearl-afixs
would also be had from other market:
In (hort, there did not appear to be one
article of our exports, that appeared to
be so much of a neceflary of life to them,
as their manufacture:*, especially th<*ir
coarser woollens, were to us in our cold
climate—to the northward, tho were ab
solutely a neceflary of lite. We were in
as much danger of perifliing with cold as
with hunger, and we can do as well with
out food as without raiment. We ma
nufactured all our wool, but that fell very
(hort of affording a supply.
, He would not admit that the Weil In
dia pofieflions of Great Britain were who
ly dependant on us for a supply of flour;
if we withheld that article they will get a
supply from some other quarter, they did
get a supply during our war, and if our
flour should become neceflary for their ex
illence, it would find its way tlierc bv a
circuitous rout ; we should be obliged ty
fell to some other nation, to whom ihey
could go for it, and it would not be in our
power to prevent it.
It is said we can injure the navigation
of Great Britain—-is it not more effectu
ally in her power to injure ours ! Suppose
(he was to* do no more than we already
have, that is to put a greater tonnage on
our vessels entering her ports than (he does
upon her own, (hould we not be the fnf
ferers ; our exports being Valllv more bul
ky than V.<- imports : confequendy much
more (hipp-.r.g is neceiliiry to carry them
to market,
The fa£t is, we derive mutual advan
tages from the intei'couVfe, and it would
be impolitic to do any thing that ihcmld
cut off,or suddenly m any great change
in the course of trade betweeh the two
countries— great changes in our laws or
commercial systems ought,not to be adopt
ed, but i »afes of apparent and very ur
gent neceiilty.
The friendly disposition which the
French nationhave manifcfted towards the
United States, and their offer to enter in
to a more intimate and close connexion,
and to put our trade upon a more benefi
cial footing has been urged as a reason why
we (hould: adopt resolutions that will fa
vour the commerce and trade of Franie.
On this account he felt himfelf impelled
however painful might bt. the talk, to take!
some notice of the political situation and
proceedings of that nation—he had ad
mired the fervor of the French nation,
they had engaged in a glorious csufe, the
cause of Liberty, a catjf? to- which he be
came an early votary ; a cause in which lie
had rilked his-life, and would- molt cheer
fully do it again if necessary ; he most sin
cerely wiihed France might succeed in e
ftabKfiiing a free and happy government,
but he could not approve of some of -the
meafarcs they were pursuing to obtain this
end.
Jurtice,humanity, forbid that we (houli
approve of their leading to the block in
some inllances, and in others difgracinir
fomeof their be£f men,who stood foremoft
in the moll perilous times; not for taking
up arms againil their country, not for a
breach of duty, or betravimr the catife in
which they had embarked, but merely
for differing In opinion from others, as to
the means of accomplijhing the fame ob~
jest ; an op.nion which their duty to
their country and constituents, required
them to advance and support. Are we to
juftify that conduct, which h?,s brought
to an ignominious death thofepatriots who
have drawn their swords in defence of Li
berty, and have upon the high places of
the field fuccefsfully fo>ught hey battles ?—
Surely not. Many other exceptionable
measures might be pointed out,' but he
would proceed no farther—he equally dis
approved he said, of the combined pow
ers interfering in the internal affairs of
France.
Is it a proper time when things are in
fiich an unnatural con vu T £ed (late,to think
of fitting down and forming commercial
treaties or regulations with' t!iis nation?
he disapproved of the idea of forming a
closer alliance, than already exilted, with
a people who had so far tranfgrefifed the
bounds of humanity, and more specially
with those who had the power, and took
the lead in tijofe measures—this of all ci
thers is not the time in which we oup'ht
to vvifii to alter either our commercial or
political connexion with France, or indeed
with any of the European nations—for
this reason it was equally imprudent and
impolitic to embark in a commercial con
flict with Ore-it Britain ; our situation
being detached from the European nationswe ought to avoid as muc}> as polfitle all
•onneition with their poii ics or wars ;—
our own country ought to be the peculiar
objeftof ourattention, anrihis opposition
to the rcfolutions on tile tabic, Was groun
ded entirely on the regard which he had
for what he supposed and believed to be
the true intcre't of his country.
(Debet: to h; cintinjfd.)
UNITED STATES.
PORTSMOUTH, (N. II.) Feh :
The brig George and Harriot,
Barnard, arrived here, from Havre-de-
Grace, in 95 days; spoke on his pafk.i'e
the following Veffe's, viz.—Jan. 10, lit.
40. long. 64. W. the sloop , Abia
ham Cop.land, belonging to Jom. Davis
& Sons, Kennebeck, troiir St. Bar:holo
iriew's, 47 da) 5 out ; had been on the
toast, an! by b'd weather blown 01T, with
damage, and was bearing away for th«
firft port he con d make, in the Islands ;
fame day, spoke brig George, Capr. Da
v;c* Harding, i.-om l.iv rptxi], out 67 days,
bound to New-York, all well. Also, spoke
another bring from Ijiverpool, bound to
New-London, but could not obtain the
names ox either the vefleloy Captain.
NEW-YORK, February 12.
On the 9th in ft.- being the dry ap
pointed for their public dinner, by the ci
tizens of Savannah, Georgia, in testimony
of their approbation of the wisdom, p-i
---triotifm, and good conduct of the Presi
dent of the United States, in the present
critical situation of public affairs, about
one hundred gentleman fat down to an ex
cellent dinner, ut three' o'clock. Captain
Robertfon, ar.d his company of artillery,
honoured the citizens, by firing 15 gun»
to the firft, and three to each of the fuc
cceding toasts ; and on rejoining the com
pany, received their thanks, through their
prelident, for their poiitenefs.
The toasts were—
1. The President of the United Stages.
Long may he live an example to mankind,
1 and- a blessing to his country.
2. The French Republic. May they
support their independence and enjoy ra
tional liberty-. >
?. May the people of America never
be diverted from their true intcreft, by the
influence of foreigners.
4. The Senators, and Rcprcfentat'ives
of the United States, in Congrcfs.
5. The Marquis de la Fayette—Long
may he live in the grateful reccU -ftion of
Americans.
6. Peace, justice, and happineic to all
nations.
7. May the pfcople of Ameiica be ever
distinguished for the performance of their
public and private engagements.
8. Prosperity to the riling State of
Georgia.
9. The memory of those brave heroes
who have fallen iti defence of American
libe ty.
10. General Wayne, and the Ameri-
can armv.
11. The exports of America—May her
enemies be the firft.
12. The agriculture and commerce of
the United States.
13. Out AmbafTadors at foreign courts.
May prudcnce and republican virtue cha
rafteiize their measures.
14. The American fair.
15. May ve preserve a ftrift neutrality
and lifting peace with the belligerent pow
ers of Europe.
T'p- entert-.iiiment warcondtifted and
with the greatest order, harmony
and leftivity.
Monday morning last departed this life,
:n Ins fixty-fifth rear, Aaron LococK,
£{qu;r», late of Charleft'own, South-Ca
rolina, originally from Knarelborough in
Yorkshire.—He had long been afflicted
with a complication of disorders, which
Jie fuppprted himfelf under with a firmnefs
peculiar to the man, who adheres perfe
veringlv to a life of .conscientious moral
rectitude.
In him the poor have loft a liberal be
refadtor ; his relatives a generous friend—
and his acquaintance the placid,- serene
Companion, ever ready to promote inno
cent amusements, and equally as attentive
to check the irregular sallies of immorality
and vice.
His remains were attended lafl evening,
by a number of rrfpeftable citizens, and
deposited in a family vault in- Trinity
Church-Yard.
phi lad nr.
rEflltUA n'
By art express whit
e r jc::':ng, the Ccr'iu.t of
tern "Territory zi
the foil unving Inhrjhng sir/tele is ta
il en 4
" Arrived at this puce on Wednefiiay
hit, a head quarters, who
informs us, that a detachment under the
command of Capt. Eato.i, who were de
tached, to reconnoitre th£ ground, from
which' Capt. Collins was repulsed, have re
turned. They found three of our men
dead, and seven Indians, and thence fol
lowed the trail of those who had off,
and Game on them at about the distance
of miles by furprizc, and took a cor.,
fiderable quantity of furrs and peltry.
We are also informed, that a few
days ago, three chiefs, and an interpreter
of the hofcile Indians, came in to Head-
Quarters to make proportions for a trea-
Jafiah
ty."
In addition to the foregoing accounts,
private letteFS fay, that the three chiefs
who came into camp informed General
Wayne, that if negotiations for fet
tling a peace'could be admitted,they would
bring in thirty of the chief warriors im
mediately to treat.
The party under the command of cart.
Collins, above mentioned, coniiltcd of 12
men only
We learn' tb at information has been re
ceived at the War-Office, from Major
General Wayne, of his having pollened
the field of battle of the 4th November,
1791, by a detachment undttr the com
mand of Major Burbeck, who eftabli&ed
a redoubt on tin/ spot, which he named
Foit Recovery—having recovered the
cannon loft there—and collected all the
b >nes of the slain, which were interred
under the" discharge of three times three
rounds from the cannon which had been
lelt on the ground.-
Major John Mills of the second Sub
Legion, is appointed to do the Duty of
Adjutant General, to the Army under
the Command of Major General Wayne.
ExtralJ of a letter from Bcjiun, dated Ja-
nuary, 1794.
" Events, and communications, since
the meeting of Congress, have nearly si
lenced the wretched few, who have for
some time pad, clamoured against the mea
sures of the Federal Government. The
Prcfident's speech, and the answer of the
two Houses of Congress, have been a
clincher.
Notwithftaoding forr.e c'louds in our po
litical horizon, I trust we (hall continue a
neutral nation ; for altho' we receive in
justice from all the warring nations, yet
war, would outweigh all those evils ; and
as republicans, we must calculate upon the
scale of iiilerej}. Kings, will go to .vtr
from ambitious views, hut we must ast on
more-enlightened and solid principles. It
is happy for us we have men at heim who
have extnifive andjuft views of national
interest. I cannot help entertaining a hope,
that the crooked and narrow-minded men,
may ast with more candor and patriotilm,
this session, than heretofore."
Every art is tried to fever this country
from France. It is now said, in order to
excite us to a deteftat'ibn of the last revo
lutionary movement in France, and of the
present rulers of that Republic, that
those opposed to them, were executed, be
cause they were of opinion that a federal
governrhen;, was best ; insinuating, that
confcquently our general government must
be abhorred by the men at the head of af
fairs there.
The fa<St is, that those men were rot
executed for holding this opinion, but for
endeavouring to maintain it against thi
will of a vast majority, by open force
We have fnre'v net forgotten the attempts
of Wimpfen, of Buzot and otherst and
the departmental forces that were laifed to
march against the convention. We have
not forgotten the refinance of Lyons, the
treachery of Toulon, 2 links of the infa-
mous plot'
But to return, it may be with ;uftiro
observed, that though a federal govern
ment in this conhtrjr, may be bed calcu
lated for tlie happiness of the whole yet
the fame cftabliflimeilt in France, at the
present time, would have been the death
of republicanlfm :AD the friend: of ari
lUrci'acy and royalifm, conld have thrown,
tliemlelves into one or more of the feder
ative irpublics, j ■) consequence of which
the country would have been dismembered,
and unable to refill the vail combination
of tyrants, againlt its liberty.
n town fafl
/ /-/•
from ivt.iu'f)
How much are we indebted, fays a cor
respondent, for the condefcenlion and ex
treme good will of his Britannic Majesty
rn fending a fleet on our coafl for the pro
tection of the American and Britilh trade !
This will serve to swell the lilt of his boun
ties# and will make a splendid figure by
the fide of the p,ote£l : on which he has
afforded by the means of the Indians on
our frontiers, & the Algerints & Britilh
Corsairs on bur trade—lt is to be hoped
that certain gentlemen who so anxioully
conjure up evrry thing that will serve the
cause of Britain, will not fail to avail
themselves of this- againll the resolutions
proposed by Mr. Madison. It is an ar
gument as much in point as molt of those
they have used, and it will elucidate their
real and Bnt'ijh feelings, equal to any thing
that they have fiiggelled.
An Afivertlfement of the present Century
" This is to inform my friends and
cuftomcrs, on Saturday next, this
newspaper will be fold for a penny, and be
continued at that price; but advertife
rnents wili be ta. jn in gratis as formerly.
The reason of my rrifing it to a penny is y
b. cauie the number I print is too prodi
gious £**eat zo be given away any longer ;
and I hope none of my customers will
think! ft dc'ar for a penny, since they al
ways have the v best intelligence, besides
other diversion.
Henry GrolsCrove,
Printer of the Norwich Newspaper, 7th
Dec. 1709." •
From Correspondents«
To build up, enlarge, strengthen, sup
port and defend the government of the
people, is surely the work of patriotism
in every country, and in every age—but
the reverse of all these is the test of repub
licanism with some who are not afhamcd
to dub themselves friends of " the rights
of man."
To be faithfully served by those vrfio
are freely elected by the people, is the di
rect way to incur the malevolence and a
buse of men, who never gave any other
evidence of their patriotism than their
own declaration! Surely there is more
glory in remaining firm at the poftof duty
when the arrows of detraction aH.il the
fliield of public virtue, than in braving
death amklft a ihower of the leaden nitffcu
gers of fate.
Oil this account, America is perhaps
more indebted, for h<?r happiness and free
government to her present rulers, than for
all their exertions in the field—fince the
prefervat'wn of liberty,' peace, and fafety,
is a much arduous talk than their acqn'ifi-
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, Feb. 14.
We are informed by a letter from Al
bany, dated the 9th inft. that Major de
Zcng is arrived in that city, Vn'th a num
ber of Chiefs, from the Oneida, Ononda
go and Cayuga nations of Indians, having
been sent for by the Legislature of this
State to meet our great State-Council.
ARRIVED.
Ship Rofina, Clark, Liverpool, 88 day?
Brig Experiment, Na(h, Cliarlefton
Sloop Polly, St'oughton, Gaudalonpe
CHARLESTON, Jan. 29.
Sunday last, a subscription was opin
ed in this city, for raising a fund to de
fray the expense of building and equip
ping a Frigate, to be presented to Con
gress for the purpose of afllfting in the
protection of the American trade. A
confiderahle sum was immediately sub
scribed which, it is hoped, will be fol
lowed by ftich liberal subscriptions as
wiil effectually accomplish a measure so
iinfoitant and efientral to the interests of
the American commerce. Subscriptions
are received by Mr. Thomas Martin, at
the corncr of Bay and Tradid-fttreets.
Y.'KAT though beneath a humble roof,
I live—and o.e—unknown to fame !
From fpircs and cities far aloof;
And great ones ne'er pronounce my name
Though soon beside some lonely heath,
I m lodged 'mong undistinguished dead,
With not a friend to veep my death,
Nor placc a maible at my head !
Virtue, they fhalt make me bfefl—
i hy hand (hall lead, thy arm l'uftain;
And life, with thee, (hall lack no reft,
And death, with thee (hall give no pain i
Gen. Adv
Tni George—fliould compliments be paid,
pj* he s numbered with the dead,
Th' insult never could be borne,
By those who live to public fcern.
N<- ; —let us pelt hini while he lives,
T is the reward the just receives,
For all his toils in war and peace.
Till nature's worn-out wheels Giall cease—
Envy, no contr ft can surprize,
When Virtue seeks her native skies.
Gen. Ad'vcrtxfer.
6 per cents,
3 <^"0,
Deferred,
U. S. Bank, 12 p» r cent. adv.
Pennsylvania do. 8 ditto ditto.
NEW THEATRE.
On MONDAY, February 17th, will be
performed (viih permission of the patentee
of Co vent Garden Theatre)
4 COMIC OPERA,
Written by the author of the Poor Soldier,
called the
Cqftle of Andalujia,
With the orl/mal overture and accompa
niments, fele&ed and compcfed by Dr.
Arnold, and additional airs by Shield.
J TO WHICH WILL Bfc ADDED,
A COMEDY, i- tioa Ads, called
Who's the Dupe.
Previous to the Opera, an occaHonar
Boxes, one c : iar—Pitt, tk -ee quarters
of a del,ar -and Ga LLERV, half a dollar.
The Dorrs will fy, opened at c o'clock,
and the performances begin at 6 o'clock nre
cifely. r
Ladies and Centlemen are recuefled to
fend their servants to keep places, at half an
hour part 4 o'clock, r.-.d to order tli*m to
w thdraw, as soon .:s the romp; ny'arcfeated,
ast Ley cannot on . ny accrtlnt be permitted
to remain in the boxes, nor any places k.»nt
after the firft a<3.
N. B. No money or tickets to be atumed,-
nor any perfen a-'mitted on any ..ccourit
whatever belli,id the scenes.
ALL persons holding (hares by trans
fer, are requeiUd to give notice to
the Managers at the Theatre, on or before
Monday morning the ryth inft. at 10
o'clock, in order that Subscribers Tickets
may be provided, p e [,_
THIS DAT fS PUBLISHED,
Thomas dob son,
At the StoneHi.ufc, No 4i,SoiuhSe.oi,o.ft lec t,
(Price three-eighths of a dollar J
THE
Speeches of Mr. Smith,.
Of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
Ddivered in ihc H ilTe of Rep.efent.tive. of
the United Sulc, in Jinuary, ,794. nmhe fub
ytt of certain Commehcial k ic u lat ions,-
p'opd'ed by Mr. N adisOn, 111 iiir committee
«' the whole, on the icpoit ot the of
State.
"To which is annexed,
A TABLE, exhibiting the Com pa-
RATiVR footing ot Ih' C'l : m v rce i>i the
I niltd S'ltrs, willl lhe Dominions of
ind Grt-jl-ft-itain, pnodoitie pending Kevo
lu' on ot Fi■n-e.
dtf
February i/j,
By MATHFW CAREY, No. 118,
All EfFay on Slavery:
D< tinned to exhibit in k nrw po.n* of vcw
its on morels, indujlyy, ,na the fx act of
focitty. S.»me fads and ca'rulatinna are oftritd
to move the labor of Jiermtn to hp much more
prciudive than that 01 Jlaves ; that coun.rir* arc
"ch, powerful and happy, m proportion at the
laboiing people/pi.joy the fru «» of th-ir enrn
labor ; and hence the n-cfffriy cnnc!ufii»n, tha
flivery \i impolitic at well as ur.jujl.
Prick 25 Cent*.
February 15. <J;f
FROM TliS E.~!CLE,
IMPROMPTU.
PRICE of STOCKS.
iSfz
io/I
11/ I
Address b<? spoken,
I'ivat Refrublica.
New Theatre.
AND TO BE SOLD BY
FOR SALE,
Market-Street,
MYRA.JAMES LEACH,
RF'.nPI - *. 1.l II Y i l'cnrs hts tcicnrts ind
tbr ru'ci', I'dji from "lie < noun aermeut
hr n >« 1 v> '
d, Irom feycral ufprctabU Gentle
men. 1> • is moncrd once mnrr, io< mbark in iht*
PAJM'*R I INK—and would offer his fe<vires to
all 1 iiofe Geiu < itv'ii, who can piace confidence
In him ; and h alTures those who employ hirr,
thai ill ii co liiicnce shall not he milplace>:
but it (hall ho his mnOant endeavor, to pay the
iiiift (i attention iqtheir heft interest, in all ne
gonaiinns whan ver. He has taken the Chamber,
in Siatr-S.tr (t, ov er Mr. David Tvxunftrtdi Waich
Make S Shop. Where PUBLIC SKCURI
- IS, of all k iios, avi bought and fold; and
whcif Com million liufinefs ol all kiwis, will he
t>ai»r fled on leafonaMe terms. HOUSKS and
VfcSSEI.S will be constantly expoftd lorfalc,on
com •• {)i >n
* # * Cacti paid for Salem, Providence, and
Ponimovuh BIL! S.
N B. // any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
Wen-York has an\ Hujinefs lo trait jail at H often,
m Paper Nej>ociaijnns. he uii/l be happy to be em
p!o\ed o-< com miff ion.
liullou, Jan. 24, 1794.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the iithday of April next,
at the houfc of John Thorn/on, in Perth-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY
Tl-'h Lot cnniii'i - i'o-'H nn v.hich is
.. •! o h'u J i! o apple ' c- $. a wcli of
tx\l! ii 'a i, ;i !«t c > n, .'"d avc y
coin-rod >us ftdhlc and coach.houi', ai 'ureal
qtirinniy -«»♦ rhe belV fton-s in the wal's
0 the houfc, which was formally built tor the
reli enee <■' Govern. of New-J<.rft:v. The
fitUJi ion of this I i is fn well kivwn for i*«
hi a 'mii' s and* beam iful profpc&XH'he Rsriion
live to ;hc v« fit of the hav, and Sar.dy-Hork to
the c It, that •a t v«r. her ucfchprion i> unu. cr fl*j -y.
1 tit rc>n<l is"lifts of (ale will br, ->ne third of the
ptirchafc money ohe paid on the firft oay of
M v next, when a good and fuffirirn*. Deed will
be given to (he pniehafer, l*v Walter Ru
tiiekfukd, I'.fq. Prefidrut of 'he Koaid of
Protint' st- 1 the Ealiern ot Ncw-
J,'ifev fc an'A thejemain-ng two thiids faiistafto
lily secured in equal annual p?* menu.
By ordfr ol the' Board
JAM PS PA R \ER, Register.
Perth-Amho\, February 5, 1794. aaw2in
War Department.
"J January 30th 1794.
INFORMATION is hcieby given to all the
military invalids of >he United States,that the
lums to which they a»e entitled lor fix months
of i he ; f-annua! pension, fiom the jourth day of
5.-. '.-her 179J» *' l d which will become due
on the S'h davos March 1794, will he paid on
he aid day by the Conim'flionc'S of rhe Loans
v it bin the Hates rcfpc£lively, under the usual re
ginat i«>ns.
Applications ol execu'ors and admin-ftrators
mnft he accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpefKve offire.*, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pension thev may claim.
By command «>f ihe Prrfid nt
of the U»> ; 'ed S»-a»e«,
H. KNOX,
Secretary oj War.
The or-nters in 'He »elp*.£hve Ifa;cs arc
rcqoelk-d 10 publish 'he «*b »ve m their newf-a
pei* 'or the iwo rooirhs.
January 30,
JUST PUBLISH K D,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. RICE, No. 50, Market-(lreet,
alio, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Market-fteeet,
(Price, bou::rf, 6[6' 2 )
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story.
TO WHICH IS JIDDKD,
The Indian Cottage
From the French of M, dt St. Pierre.
44 THE al ove"Stone* have be< n latelv pub
-I»fhc. , mongft the works ot a very different
nature, by M. de S'. Pierre, who rcfided ih the
country which it describes, and was well ac
quainted with the piiitcipal fa£ls. Its orna
ment* are the Landscape—the Climate—and
the natural history of the Torrid Zone, ob(cr
ved with the eye ot TaOe, and delineated with
the eye cf Philosophical knowledge. It is a
P» floral, of which the fable and the machine
ry may he said to be equally real. To these are
added, the pure vein of Moral I fbu£lion, and
the Sublime Ideas of M. dc St. Pierre."
Feb. 1
JUST PUBLISHED,
M. Carey,No. 118,H~igh-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Comment art on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the world.
THIS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all cUflfi ol people, merchants, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
wo i lc acquired, th«» it has pa (Ted th«o three im
preflions in the raftern dates, and many house
holders derm it so ufclul as to purchase a copy
for every adult in ibcii families. --Pk xc b 2s.
February 4. Wtf
NORRIS- C O U R T,
Back ot the New Library, between Chefnut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RFISPECThTJLLY informs his friends and
thr public in general, that he continues
y-ng on the hnfinefs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
for cioors or window-fhutters,doni in the mod
elegant raannet, and with dil'parch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received. and duly attended to.
December jo,
Just Imported,
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
A 'd now opening for ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market J} reefy
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are tl\e following
NE'!V Annual flegilter for I 792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of I 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Mancliefter society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and ipirit
on christianity
DiGiey's life of Dr. Jorrin
Kingville's ancient geography
D' Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty. a collection of e flays
Varieof PruiHa's works
Calm observer—by Mackintofli
RufTell's ancient and mode n Europe
Lan;' ,o» ne's P'utarcb
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
fctagant frxtr-iCts of natural tiiltory
Saugnier and Brifion's voyage
Roclioiv's voyage to Madugafcar
T>'}\y. 'end's travels in Spain
Taifo's jeruValem cieiivered
•Sinellie's translation ot Buffon
Berwick's hiltoi y of quadrupeds
Bnffon abridged
Hiitory. of birds
PI . j*s.'s history of inland navigation
floopei's rational recreations
H : :° try of France, in 3 vols.
CurioJities of literature, 3 vol*.
Whi taker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's di&ionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
linlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of'Nova-Scotia
Pie Pent ft ate of Hud Ton's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridgod
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. John (on
Necker on executive power
KifTes of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materiaiifm and immaterialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non*s travels
Franklin's life and works
G ozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on pol'tical juftic%
Gazetteer of France, 3 v °l**
Helvetius on man
TCaimes's (ketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's di&ionary
Moby's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhoufir dictionary
Reveries of fotitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiment*
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Warfon's life of Philip Hd. & Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.^
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
d2m
man
Wall is on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Rufiia,Poland,&c.
Cox's (ravels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of* Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&ice of mid
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mufc>es
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qtiiricy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Rvan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatifo on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on difetifesof women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's dissertation*
London pra&ice of physic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
Peale's Museum,
HAS Lately received a number of article?;
among which are the following ; That
r ina-kablr bird called the Cut-water, or fcif
ars-bill; The Avofette, commonly called the
Shoe-maker, because ol its bill refcmbling a
crooked awl—The Long-legs, commonly call
ed the Black-bet, having perhaps the longcft legs,
in proportion to the fire of the bird, ol any of
the feathered tribe—The Storm-finch, common
ly called mother Cary's chicken—The Sea
'fwallow, and various Gulls ; bcfidcs a variety
ol C'anes, Curlews, Snipes, &c.
The scull of a Whale and one of its Vertebres.
An Indian hatchet made of chrvftal : It is
curious that those uninformed wild people, hav
ing very little knowledge of the aits, and being
ignorant even ol the extftence of iron and steel,
(hould be able to form such hard substances in
to fanciful forms as this, and other Indian ma
nufa&uies now in the Museum.
A lignified Quince : The specimen shews
whit a remarkable effefta dry warm situation
has on fruit. It is now about 8 years since it
was gathered ; and it was a real quince, now be
come wood, at lead in appearance.
Presented bv Mrs. Manfon of Charleftown,
S. C.—a tool used by the O.aheitans in making
their baik cloth, by pounding the bark on this
inttrument of wood, it produces the ribs which
resemble threads : the perfe&ly straight and
equal lines made in this extreme hard wood, by
men without the ufc of iron,are cutious Sc won
derful.
Also, a rope made of grass, part of the rigg
ng of a veflel of Kamfkatka.
Picfrnied by Dr. Hall, of Lewis-town, a Squib
in spirits : when this fi(h was found, a number
of stones were append<d io string* or ligaments
that projected from the front of its head,which
occafioncd a conjc&uie, as it is not furnilbed
with fulficient 'fins to resist the violence of the
tide and currents, that it fattened wi h these li
gaments on whatever it found ai the bottom ; so
that the stones answered the purpofeof anchors
and the ligaments of a glut inous dicky nature,
that of cables. Some of the stones are in the
fame phial.
A colli ftion of Minerals and other Foflils-
a r e now dilplaycd in diawers covered with glass
and in a mode which will feeut e them from de
rangement. To each specimen are affixed refe
rences to a book of descriptions. This manage
ment of specimens of the Foflil kingdom, ren
ders this part of the Museum very convenien'
and fatistaftorv,and gieat attention will be paid
to the fvftcmatical order of rhem, and in mak
ing the nec« flarv eftays of each : Also tn giving
in a concise manner, the various u'es they are
applied to; thereby rendering them the more
interesting to the public.
A Living Elk, of 2 years old. is jtift receiv
ed. Hy thi account which monf. Button gives
of the Elk, it appears that he was not acquaint
ed with this American animal; he particularly
omits all notice of the curious apertures adjoin
ing the eyes of this Elk.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Street 1 ?, adjoining the Episcopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
thole of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
shortest notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coache;, chariots, phaetons with and
without Crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chairs, and harness
of every description, in the neatest and newest
Pa Hi ion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion to those who please to employ him.
He has for fate, several carriages almost
finished, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaeton for
One or two horses, and a lulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commifiion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794. m&tjm
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the fubferiber has been duly ap
pointed Administratrix on the estate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herfelf that trnft, by giving
bonds as the law dire&s—and all persons in.
terefted, are defircd to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
A LL pcrfons who have any demands aga'nft
l\. the Estate of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are iequcfted to
exhibit the fame to the Subfcribcr, Attorney
to the Adminiftratiix ol said Eftarc : And all
persons who Hand indebted to said Estate, are
rcouerted to fettle with h m iwmeJfaich ; as t!;e
A<st of Limiration of Afttons, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
otherwise render it necefTary for him to com
mence fuitsagainft them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Adminiftratiix.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793-
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requrfted to insert this in their
refpeftive newspapers, and forward ti*t' ac
count! for the fame, to J. M
Bank of the United State*
January 6th, 17^4.
NOTICE is hereby given, that there will
be paid at the Bank, after the sixteenth
instant, to the Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty cents for each (hare, being the dividend
declared for the last fix months.
Bv Order,
JOHN KEAN, Caftiier.
ALL persons having any de
mand* against the eitate or GiORGE
WIBLE, late ot the ciiy ot Philadelphia, bakc.i,
arc rrqueftrd to bring in their accounts, properiv
authenticated ; and those who are indebted, arc
desired to make immediate payment.
HENRY REES, Aminiftrator.
January 13,
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookseller, at the Stone House, in Second
ftreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionary
Of A' ts, Sciences, and Miscellaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
Br WHICH
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are digejled into the form of
Diftinft Treaties or Syflems :
THIS volume contains principles of Levels,
Liberty, Do&rine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
don, Longirude. Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, Hit
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biograph cnl and
Miscellaneous articles, illuitrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
A«s a number ot families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the subscribers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poilible.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance In an imperfect state, some ac
count of the reason of that imperfe&ion ftiould
be iven. On the Bth of September last, the
Publisher had the misfortune of having his
Printing-Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the figures, with
which he was printing the tables of lo
garithms, belonging to the prefeut volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the neceflity of pub
lilhing the volume without the e taples; but
hopes he (hall be able to publilh them with the
next volume wfcifihis now in conlidcrable for-
wardnefs.
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
exprefling his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of rrprefenting to such of the subscribers
at are in arrears, the indifpenfible necefCty of
punctuality, both in takin* up ;he volumes as
early as possible after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the sub
scribers having got only one, two, three, &c.
volumes, and I'everal volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the commencement j and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpaid Tays the Publisher under
very serious embarraflmenr,and deprives him
of the use of many Thousands of Dollars which
at this time would be of very eflentialTer vice.
For these reasons the Publisher finds himfelf
under the neceflity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered bur only to those who
take and pay to the time of publication.
December 10.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-ftrcet, Niw-Yokk.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfclf
entirely to the PURCHASE &rSALF©r
STOCKS on COMMISSION, bigg leave to of
f. r his Cervices to his friends and other*, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may plcafe
to favor him with their bufineU. may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with then racll fide
lity ar.d dispatch.
Orders lioin Philadelphia, Bollo*. or any
other parrot the United St?te.', will l>< (trifll.
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKhR.
(Tj* Terms of SubfcriptioH far this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—4o be
■paid half-yearly. Subfcripticns of perfont
<tvbo rcjide at a dijlancc from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Acbuertif menu of onef/uare, or Irfi, in
fertedfour times for One Dollar—once, far
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—thofc of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line, and Si bfcrip
tions, will be gratefully received at fix Office
in South Fourthfli set, five doors n.rt'o o/tkr
Indian Qiuen 4
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 5,
South Fourth-Street.
2awgw,
aawtl J.