EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 55 of Vol. V.]
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public, That from ihe encouragement
he has from several refpe£tahle Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in ihe
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his feivices to
all 'hose Gentlemen, who can place confidcncc
in him ; and h;- afTurcs those who employ hiin,
that ih«*ii confidence shall not be misplaced;—■
but it (hall be his tonflant endeavor, to pay the
ftrt&eft attention to their befl interest, in all ne
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber,
in State-Street, ovf T Mr. David I own/end, Watch
Make.'s Shop. Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of all kinds, are bouj>ht and fold; and
whcie Commiflion Business of all kinds, will be
tranfaOcd on reasonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be conftamly exposed lor sale, on
commiflion.
%* Cash paid for Salem, Providence, and
Portsmouth BILI S.
N. B. If an\ Gentleman in P/ii/adclp/iia. or
New-York, has any Pufmefs to travfafl at Boffon,
in Paper Negocrations, he will be happy to be em
ployed on commission.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nthday of April next,
at the house of John Thomson, in Perth-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
THE Lot coutaifjs clevm actcy, on which is
an oichard of grafted apple tieos, a well of
excellent water, a laige {lone c stern, and a very
commodious ftablc and coacb-houfe, and a great
quantity of the best building stones in the walls
of the house, which was formerly built for the
residence of the Governors of N'c w-Jnfiy. The
situation of this Lot 1» so weli known <or its
heaithinefs and beautiful prof pert of ihe Rmijou
river to the weft of ibe bav, and to
the e«ift, that a further defc.iption i> unnrc?ffny.
The conditions of sals will be, one thud of the
purchase money 10 be paid on the fi'ft day of
May nextj when a good and fufnci< n! Deed will
be given to the puichafcr, by Waitir Ru«
Therturd, Esq. President of the Board of
Proprietors of the E-jftcrn Division of New-
Jrifev» ««»d tbe remaining two thuds fatufa&o
rUy secured io rqual annual payments.
By order of the Boar<),
JAMES PARKER, Regißer.
Perth- February 5, 1 794. 2awam
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible foliation, —also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of Jand and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size or convenience,
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23-
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Coffee-Houfe of this
City :—
RLSPECTFUI LY informs his Friends and
the Public i" general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippcn-Strcet, be
tween Third and Fourth-Streets, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Tnnmons, which
has lately been greatly improved, and ;s now
very coinmod ous ; where he has furnifhed hini
felf with 'he bell of LIQUORS, and will fur
ni(h a TABLE for Parties, with the heft provi
sions the Markets afford, ai any hour, 011 the
ihortt ft notice. F'om his long experience in
this line of business, he flatters himfclf he ftiall
be able to give fatisfa£hon to all who may please
bo favor him with iheir company 4
Philadelphia, January 29,1794.
War Department.
January 3 Oth 1794-
IN FORMATION is heieby given 10 all the
military invalids of the United States,that the
fiims to which they are entitled for fix mouths
of their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, .»nd which will become due
on 'he 51b day of March 1794, will be paid on
the (aid day by the Commiflionei» of ihe Loans
within the ftatcs refp< ttively, under the usual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
must be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpettive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prefidt nt
of* the United S<ate«,
Secretary oj IVar.
The printers in (be refprftive dates are
requcfted to publifti the above in their
pers for the fpacc of 1* 0 raouihs.
January go.
Excellent CLARET,
In and in calc-t of 50 ooulcs each,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
In pipes, hogsheads and quaiier calks,
FOR SALE BY
Jan. 2, 1794.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths Jewellers,
No. 42,
SILVER PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY & fine CUTLERY,
Which they will dispose of on the most rea--
fonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and filvei
way, done as iffual.
December 24.
Trufteesof an Academy,
Oi an; individual wishing to engage a
per on to fiiperi: ter d thr Education of youth,
in the couiie of ftuJies ufnally adopted io
Academies, or any bianch of bulinefs requir
ing fnnilar qualifications, may open a com
munication with a pcrfon willing to be em
ployed a few years (for a generous compensa
tion) by writing (letters to be post paid) to
M. John Ff.n.vo, Philadelphia.
•j3' Printers to the Southward would pojfibly
oblige fame oj their friends, by injcriing the foregoing
a few twii S in their papers.
February 8.
City Commissioners Office,
January 30, 1794.
IN purfusnee of a Refo'vc of the Common
Council, dated the 20th day of .Januaty,
1794, lor dividing the City into five- Dtftri&a,
by lines drawn East and Wist, whereof each of
the City Commtflioncrs is to take the fuperin
trndance of one of the ("aid Diftti&s, and to be
accountable for the cleansing, good order and
regularity of the fame.
The CommifTioncrs have accordingly made
the 1011-wing arrangement for the prefer.t :
DijiriSt the lijl. Nathan Boys, to have the
charge of that part of the llreets, lanes and alleys
from Ccdar-ffrcet, to the north fide of Spruce
ft'eet.
Dijlritt the zd. Hugh Roberts, from thr north
fide of Spruct-ftreei to the north fide of Walnut
street.
Dijlrifl the 3d. Joleph Claypoole, from the
north fioe of Walnut to the south tide of High-
street,
m&th— tf
Dtjlrifl the 4th. William Moulder, from the
north fide of High, to the north fide of Mulberry
street
DiJiriß the sth. Nicholas Hicks, from the
north lide of Mulberry, to the north fide of Vine
street.
N B. The carriage way in Mark> t-ftreet, is
underthecharge ol the Commi&wcrs generally,
for the present, the foot-ways on the north and
south fides thereof, are connc£led with the ad
joining Diftrifts r fpettively.
I have, in my preceding remarks, ex
hibited a moral view of this question in
the atftraft. A single and summary ar
gument decides it in a few words, The
perfeSion of government is to render as
perfeS as poflible the moral system. States
or Sovereignties are artificial or corporate
persons, and as such, capable of moral
right and wrong. To render any system
of morals complete, every person, whether
natural or artificial {hould have, equal rights,
equal remedy for injuries, and an equal pow
er of rcfjhng injury or demanding right.—
If there is an individual in society, a na
tural person, who is not as fubjeft to all
the laws of the society, as every other in
dividual, his situation is raised above that
of his fellow-citizens, and he has the pow
er of exercising over them some acla of
tyranny. If. there is one person who
is not compellable to answer the demands
of his neighbors, he is or may be a ty
rant over them; for when men depend
H. KNOX,
d«m
Friday, February 14, 1794.
ALSO,
MADEIRA,
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111, South Front llreet
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortment of
Extrafl from the Mivutrs,
JOHN MEASE, Clerk.
From the American Minerva.
SUABILITY OF STATES.
AND
on the discretion or integrity of another
for justice, they depend on his mere will
and pleafnre ; and this is precisely the de
pendence of Jla-ves on a maftcr —the de
pendence of a Turk on the Grand Sultan.
It matters not whether this person, who
is exempt from the ordinary compulsion
of law, is a natural person, an individual
of the society, or an artificial person, a
corporate body. It matters not whether
this person i> a city, a fubordinatc cor
poration, or the sovereign body politic.—
The argument is conclusive in either cafe.
Wherever there are two persons capable
of having rights and duties; capable of
controlling with each other; to render
their facial, moral and political state per
fect, they must be on equal terms, quod
hoc; that is, so far as the contrast ex-
tends.
Now if one of the contrasting parties
is compellable to fulfil his stipulations, and
the other is not; in the name of reason
and common sense, let me ask, where is
the equality of their rights ? The oppo
fers of the inability of states are challenged
to answer this question.
mw&rftf
If then in our republican governments,
there is any power, either natural or arti
ficial which claims and enjoys the preroga
tive of doing justice to others, or not, at
its fo-vereign will and pleasure, that power
is so far despotism ; and the persons over
whom that power does or may exercise its
prerogative, are so far Jla-ves.
The reason is not pointed to the single
question as it refpefts the several states of
America ; it is applicable to the United
States so far as they form a Sovereignty ;
and to all sovereign states on earth. And
I am perfectly fatisfied that it is a perfection
of republicantfra, reserved for a more en
lightened period of the world, that free
sovereign states Ihall, in all contra£ts or
stipulations, with individual citizens, whe
ther natives or foreigners, place themselves,
with refpeft to the administration of jus
tice, on a footing with individuals, render
themselves suable in courts of justice, and
make provision for carrying into effect pro
cess and execution against themselves. It
is pride, a haughty and domineering prin
ciple of the old world, that would contend
for the right of states to exercise an uncon
trolled discretion, which is often mere arbi
trary will and power, in the distribution
of justice towards private citizens.
Nor can I pass over the refle&ions call
on the judges of the supreme court of the
United States, for their decision on this
question. The clear explicit phraseology
of the constitution, one would think, might
save them from the sneers of certain gen
tlemen, in high stations, who, in deriiion,
pronounce them learned.—But when we
consider the republican fin of the decision,
we may be aftonilhed at the blittdnefs of
opposition. Never did the judges of that
court deliver an opinion so perfectly re
publican, so perfefily recognizing the equal
rights of man, so perfectly hostile to the
proud domineering spirit of arbitrary will
and pleasure, as when they pronounced
the states to be compellable to answer the
demands of individuals. This decision a
lone might refute the charge of aristocra
cy, so liberally bestowed on those gentle
men. It is not republicanism but monar
chy and aristocracy that contend for the
dangerous power of doing as they please,
with individuals. Republicanism descends
from the throne of arbitrary will and plea
sure, and offers herfelf, on a footing with
her citizens, a defendant as well as plain
tiff, in the tribunals of justice.
What a strange absurdity do men in
dulge, when they zealously contend for
an arbitrary poivrr in many hands, which
they tremble at, in the hands of one man !
Is power the left to be dreaded, becaufeit
has changed hands ? If I have any idea
of despotism, it is mojl dreadful in the
hands of a large body of men. Legislative
powers in the hands of many, lose their
danger in the interejl which legislators have
in the laws—They themselves are fubjeft
to the laws which they ena& for the pub
lic. Here is an ark of fafety. But in de-
[Whole No. 5 13.]
cifions of the state between individuals
and itfelf, where is the principle that can
control the narrow, partial, felfilh, pre
judiced views of man ? Will universal in
tegrity ensure justice ? Will reputation,
where no man can be accused, guarantee
a uniform, impartial adrniniflration of jus
tice ? Will honor always triumph over pri
vate paflions, secret prejudice and motives
of interest ? Let any man lay his hand
upon his bread, while he reasons on this
fubjeft, and while he reviews the proceed
ings of our legislatures towards individual
suitors for justice ; and fay, if he can,that
a man's rights are fafe in the hands of dis
cretionary fovercign power.
Objections to be answered in a future
paper.
Mr. Fenno,
THE enclosed animadversions on a
publication underthe Signature of Grac
chus, which appeared in the General Ad
vcrtifer on Monday the 10th inlt. were
sent to the Editor of that paper yesterday
for publication—He has since returned
the manofcript—with a declaration that
the reflections on the French Minister,
are inadmissible ! !—lt is in vain thrft Mr.
Bache should pretend, that it is proper to
avoid refle&ions on a person, who, he
fays, is not accountable to the American
people; for if that person intrudes him
felf into American politics, and by him
felf, or his creatures attempts to impose
on the public mind in the Newspapers,
no good reason can be assigned why hit
conduct (hould escape ccnfure.
Philad. Feb. 11
For the General Advertiser.
Mr. Bache,
" THERE are Hypocrites in Politics
as well as Religion i" Men who, under
a made of profeffion, conceal principle*
most opposite to it. Such a canting hy
pocrite I take your correspondent Grac
chus to be. He pretends an attachment
to Liberty and Republican principles—
nay, which is more impudent Hill, he
pretends to understand them ; yet like a
true son of Ambition, grasps at controul
ing, singly, the opinion of almost four
millions of freemen. Disguised as a de
mocrat, and united with a junto of simi
lar complexion, he would no doubt gladly
obtain the direction of the public mea
sures for himfelf and his creaturei. With
this view they continually attempt to vili
fy the officers of our government, the
worthy objects of republican confidence
&aprobation;&obtrudetheirimpertinence
upon the public eye, under a pretext of
being the friends of the people ; of that
very people who would scarcely, perhaps,
chufe them for Constables, much less the
Watchful Centinels of their moll precious
interests.
The envious Philippic of Gracchus,
who mistakes the impudence of feftion for
republican freedom, it directed against the
muit dignified and unexceptionable public
character which ever conduced the admi
nistration of any government. He at
tempts, almofl sacrilegiously attempts, to
rob our beloved President of as well-earn
ed laurels, as ever adorned a human brow.
From the particular charges exhibited
by that malevolent incendiary, one would
suppose his performance to be the despe
rate effort of a disappointed man, or some
of his satellites of mifchief, fufficiently
known in America.
By such ii.lk'.iotis methods, lie hopes,
to {hake the public confidence in their
Chief Magistrate, But let him, whoever
he 1 be, know ; let him hear it from a plain
citizen and as ftauch a republican as he
pretends to be ; that the Prelident of the
United States is the choice of American
Citizens ; that they have viewed his civil
administration with the fame admiration
and delight, which filled their hearts when
he became the instrumental Saviour of
their country at the head of its embattled
youths ; that lie lives in their hearts ; and
that a ltroke Impinging against him, tb e
A. B.puUic R 'nvtfr.r.t.V've. vibrates tliro* t'le
>i every leal America* citizen
in the remote!t corrvr oS the United
States, who fe.lVliimfeh perfoiittlly insulted
thereby. Let Grncchut:, let his abetters
know, that tjjouiands and ten thouiands
in this extensive country, cherifhthe name
(it Washing Ast, as The* vital blood which
animates their hearts. Let these men
know that the envenomed fhafts of envy
which thjy aim at this unsullied character,
will like arrows (hot agsfinlt the fun,
with vengeful force upon their own heads.
L-Jt them know that the people of Ame
rica, are men of principle, of iteady cha
racter and the molt solid judgment ; that
they do not change their opinions, men
and manrters with every moon ; and that
t hey liibjctl bcUlkt the heads of their de
fj. ving CitiZens to the bloody Guillotine
6? France, nor their fame to the unceaflng
guillotine of malicious pens.
Having yield:d tinis far to the emoti
ons of a.i iiidigiiHal, hunpft heart, rouged
bv its attachment to liberty, which has
b.'en wounded in the character of her fiill
born Son, I can proceed the more pati
ently to consider the production of Grac
chus, in some detail, and offer a few Uric-
tuv* u;5(-n it
His <.'_>T.C7Til in the beginning
arc; true in thviafelves, but without an ob
ject at this day. They are certainly in
applicable to the cafe, with which he con
nects theni. He fecms, either not to un
deritand, or not to dillinguifn between an
"implicit reliance upon influential men ;
and a gearrrus c& hdepce in those servants
of the public, whose fidelity has been se
verely t«!red on many important occasions,
& proved incorn ptiblc. Unequivocal proofs
of the moll: inviolable integrity direified
t;ie choice of Ana ica to the President of
tiie United States ; and continued expert
eiwc cOi.-5..-ms their opinion of his merit.
His emiuetit capacity for executing im
portant trulls chid his unparalleled fidelity
have united all generous, judicious, noble
lpirits in his favor
This has called him repeated])' and una
ii:rn >ufly to that conlpicuous pollin which
he lo worthily represents the sovereignty
of theAmeriean States.
He is the people collectively ; foi he is
cliafcn by their fuiiragc ; to speak in their
name ; to ad with their power ; and to
m?.;iagc with Angular IcfjXHiiibilitycertain
fpecfiitd a;.d important concerns of the
government, on their belialf. He is thus
a lovereign not of the people, but for the
people, to trail fact our bujinefs with so-
reign lovereigntie6, and to cany into exe
cution the public will, lawfully exprefTed.
This kind of fupremacv he has obtained
hv the only legitimate title, the OPINI
ON, the KNO WLEDGE, the CHOICE
of the people. And will Gracchus dare
to fay, #ciat the opinion, the will of the
peup'e thus largely colleded, ought not
to prevail ? VV ill he avow a feutiment
and yet, with unblushing front, pretend
to repuhlicanifm ? Will he impertinently
fuppoft for a moment, that we ought to
submit our opinion to his, and withdraw
our confidence from the man of our hearts,
to place it—upon whom ? E. lightened
fellow citizens 1 upon whom ? upon some
disguised foe to our liberty, happinefs,and
peace ; some dark affafiin, whose best fe
ctiriry is—his unknown name ! ! To men
tion this monstrous phenomenon, as a pof
frble event, even in our rcra of political
wonders, is to expose it to the most ex
prefiive contempt.
The sllufions to Tufcany and Rome are
the wildest imaginable. Can ignorance
itfclf fitppofe,or is prejudice hardy enough
tft suggest a parallel between George
Washington, the firft of men, and the
artful Cofmo, the bloody and terrific Syl
la, or the ambitious Caesar ? between pow
er committed in trust by frequent, unbias
sed choice, and, power afyimcd and inde
finitely exercised, thro' the insidious arts,
or the r" Ltary force devoted to the ambi
tious will of those despots ? between an
enlightened and comparatively virtuous
nation, in the youth of freedom ; and
people e> ervated by luxury and ready to
submit their servile necks to the firft mat
ter w hit was bold enough to command
them or richenoughto purchase their pros
tration, by fumiftiing unbounded enter
tm'nmentJ and expensive raree-lhews ?
As Giucchus has tired egregioufly in
the application of ancient facts to the prc
fent filiiation of America, so he is not
lifs mistaken hi his interpretation of the
recent governmental atls of the PreHdent,
which he has fpecified, and which he af
firms to have heen " incompatible with the
spirit of a free government.'"
The difaifilon of Du Plaine from Jiis
consular luuttioiw tor a daring outrage up
on the-authority of this country, a fatt
authenticated by the clearest evidence, was
an ;>.ct the molt salutary in itfelf, the most
neceflary from its citomittances, and per
formed in a conltitutional manner by tfye
Pidident, who in ail such public traufae
tions, is the only organ to expreis the Na
tional will. To talk of a trial by jury in
a cafe of that fort, is a weak attempt to
r,-.:(lezd by the fuund of words ; and is
just as ridiculous "s to expect that the In
dians should- be tried by a jury before Gen.
Wayne fhali treat them as enemies ; or
Great Britain, before Congrcfs had dis
cussed Mr. Madison's Resolutions. Yet
Gracchus asserts that this necelfarv severi
ty was ' an outrage upon the trial by ju
ry,' which in f.ift, as has been (hewn,
was not applicable to a circumstance of
that nature ; and that ' the Consul's con
duA was fnl jud'ice, when the proclama
tion declared his guilt ,' nav further, he
inhnuates, that a jury of uur country ac
quitted him in the very instance wherein
the proclamation pa(fcdfcv.ence upon him.
Is this fact ? Or is it not a gross mifre-
calculated to deceive the un
wary > If Du Plaine was. tried by a jury
lat all; was it not with regard to a ques
tion of property or damages ; altogether
diltiuiX from the public breach of the
peace, for which his exequatur was revok
ed Does this writer ignorantly or insidi
ously thus confound these two different ob
jedta ?
The fame ignorance or insidious design,
has induced Gracchus, to separate, as
Mr. Genet also usually does, the people
of America, from their government.—
This he has attempted in his statement of
Henfield's cafe, as well as that of Du
Plaine. But, as well might the body be
diltinguiflied from its form, or matter from
its colour and shape, ae under our cotiftitu
tiou, the people and their government be
separated. How long time will these un
fledged republicans require, to learn, that
our government is the appointment of the
people themselves, their ostensible repre
fentativc ; and the organ whereby they
expreis their will! Surely the general
voice of counties, cities and towns, in va
rious parts of America, in favour of the
President's official conduit, is a decided
proof that there is no repullion between
the people and their owh constituted au
thority ; as falfefly asserted by Gracchus
from the proceedings of one or two un
informed juries: and the tremendous re
solves of a county or two in Virginia,burr
ed in ignorance of what passes in the poli
tical world,except what they receive thro'
the partial medium of a disappointed par
ty !*
The firmnefs and wisdom with which
the President bafßed the repeated attempts
of Genet to disturb our happiness and
peace, have been decidedly and honora
bly appiovcd by Congress. The • dignity'
and candor of that Minister is fnfficiently
obvious to all, who compare his unquali
fied declarations on his firit arrival in A
merica, with his succeeding and avowed
attempts to involve us in war ; and those
public inftru&ions which he afterwards
pulled out of ' his pocket' as the French
interpretation of the treaty. His factious
and intemperate conduct, and his ' undis
guised' impertinence, not so much to the
President as an individual, or to the deli
cate sensibilities of some imaginary court,
as to the • Sovereign and independent Re
public of America,' in her Representative
or Chief Magistrate, has involved him in
just suspicion, and degraded him into an
object of just contempt. Finally the af
fair of the Southern Sicarii, who have re
ceived coinmiffions from him to commit
the peace of their country with Spain, and
liis wretched explanation of that dark bu
siness has finifhed his career, and rendered
him an odious object of abhorrence. The
palliative complaints therefore of Grac
chus upon the fubjeft of this, almost, ex
minifter of France, and his coarse reflec
tions upon the worthiest Magistrate in all
the world ; are nothing but the effufions
of a fretted and cankered heart, and de
serve nothing but indignant reproach,
from every honell man.
To conclude, though I dislike and re-
* Amelia county, the refoves of which
•were pubtifhed ; I believe itlfo, re-publijhed
in our new/papers ; and which speak so lof
tily about Citizen Genet, and so pointedly
againjl Mr. Hamilton, is the native place,
and the usual residence of Mr. G—s. Albe
marle, ivhich pcffejJimilar refolvet, contains
Mr. J n'sfeat.
probate the language and the (Jcfign of
Gracchus, I am neither • a (lave nor a ty
rant.' I have not tamenefs for the one,
nor power and influence, nor congeniality
enough with Gracchus, Genet or hollow
democrats of any party, for the other. I
have no more connexion with the Presi
dent or the officers of government, than
the most remote or obfeure of our fellow
citizens in the wilderness. I never attend
ed a levee, becaule no business called me
there ; and have never seen Mr. Hamilton
or Gen. Knox, fmce their residence in this
city. My feelings as a free citizen, on
reading the (lander of Gracchus, have
been my sole prompters upon the present
occasion. Urged by these, I have attack
ed the slanderer in the stile he deserved,
and leave him to his fate with the public.
CONGRESS
House of Reprefentat'fves.
January 25.
In committee of ihe whole on Mr. MadiforC s
rcfolutions
Mr. Clark observed that having made a
calculation of the time which had alreSdy
been expended in the difcuflion of this bu
siness, he found it amounted to seven days
—-He believed no legislative body ever be
fore consumed so much time in delibera
ting on one fubjeft—he hoped therefore,
the committee would come to a vote im
mediately—any furthei expence of time
he said would be to no purpose, and would
be difgraceful to the legillature.
Mr. Hillhoufe in replying to Mr. Clark
said that it was the right of every gentle
man to aflign the reasons for his public con
duct if he saw proper, for his part he did
not wi(h to consume much of the time of
the committee—he was not in the habit
of making long speeches—and tho' he
could not charge the member last up with
exhausting the patience of the house, yet
he never failed of exercising a right wliich
he now appeared to wilh to deprive others
of—but notwithstanding the remarks of
the gentleman, Mr. Hillhoufe laid he
thought it his duty Rot to give a Clent
vote on a fubjedl of fueh magnitude—he
had heard with pleasure, and had been
much inftru&ed by the observations that
had been made, and wilhed to hear what
further might be said on a fubjeft that
might $ffe£t the most important interests
of his country —For some time pad he
had, from his own observation, from the
high price which our produce had borne,
and the great demand there had been for
it in the markets, from the pressing de
mand for seamen, and from the concurrent
testimony of merchants, and people of
every occupation, been lead to believe,
that the commcrce of the United States
was in a most prosperous train—he had no
,reason to ful'peCt his opinion till those re
folutious were brought forward—They
him the more, as coming from
a quarter of the country, from which he
left txpefted any thing of the kind—and
from which, only two fetlions since oppo
sition was made to measures which had
the fame object in view, so far as refpefts
the encouragement of navigation and ma
nufa&ures, beCause it was said, that such
encouragement, tho' it operated to the
advantage of the eastern, was a direct tax
on the southern states—this made him lcfs
solicitous at that time, to urge mealures
that might have an unequal operation on
the different parts of the union.—What
great event has turned up fmce, to work
this extraordinary change ? He supposed
the gentjeman must have difcovcred some
great hnpofitions and embarralTments on
our trade, which had escaped his atten
tion, he had therefore listened with gicat
attention, to hear them pointed out—as
to tbcorict, he thought they ought not to
be attempted, but in extreme cases, unlcfs
the obje£t was important, and its attain
ment certain ; he had enquired into the
reftriftions laid by Great-Britain, on the
commerce of the United States, and from
that enquiry, as well as from the report
of the Secretary of State, he found that
the fame reftri&ions are laid on other na
tions, that there is no marked diftin&ion
against us, but that the United States en
joyed many, and great advantages over
other nations—He thought it unnecessary
to go into a particular detail of those ad
vantages, as the other gentleman had al
ready done it. He therefore was of opi
nion, that to adopt the measure now un
der consideration, would be hazarding
those advantages for the uncertain chance
of obtaining something which was only
in profpeft. A gentleman from Virgi
nia, (Mr. Giles) had mentioned the dif
criminating favoritism of Britain, to other
neutral powers, viz. Denmark and Swe
den, which was the only instance that
even the ingenuity of that gentleman, ia
gacious in finding out difficulties, could
point tout in the navigation laws, or com
mercial regulations of Great-Britain, in
which any discrimination was made to the
disadvantage of the Ui.ited States—and
even that is not one of which we can
complain ; it was a regulation adopted iu
coni'equence of her present fitUatiuii, 8,
being in a ltate of war, and not for com
mercial purposes—the article complained
oi, is in theie words: " That it lhall be
lawful for the commanders of his Majcfty's
fliips of war, and privateers, that have,
or may have, letters of marque agairill
France, to seize all ships, whatever be
their cargoes, that (hall be found attempt
ing to enter any blffekaded port, and to
fend the fame tor condemnation, together
with their cargoes, except the Ihips of
Denmark and Sweden, which (hall only
be prevented from entering 011 the firft at
tempt, but on the second, shall be sent in
for condemnation likewise"—This article
needs no other comment, or jnllification,
than to read the remark of the Secretary
of State, in his letter to the Britilh Mini
ller on this fubjeft—" We had conjectur
ed, but did not before certainly know, that
the diftin&ion which the injlr nations makes
between Denmark and Sweden on the
one hand, and the United States 011 the
other, in the cases of velfels bound to ports
blockaded, was on the principle explained
by you, that it was yielded to those coun
tries by treaty, it is not unfriendly to re
fufe to us, lecaufe, not yielded to us by trea
ty. I shall not contest the right of the
principle, as a right to its reciprocity nc
eeflarily results to us." And it is upoa
this ground, that our conduit in admitting
French privateers and prizes into our ports,
& excluding those of Great-Britain, isjuf
tifiable ; if then, the advocates for the ic
folutions, cannot find out any inltance in
which Great-Britain has made difcrimina
tiuns to our advantage, and many inltan
ces are Ihewn, in which we enjoy advan
tages beyond the moll favored nations;
can we complain ?
A. B.
The United States have not a fuffici
ent number of (hips to become the carriers
of her own produce, and he much doubted
whether the time was come when it would
be for the advantage of the United Stater
to extend their navigation so far as to an
iwtr that jjurpofe ; and should an impru
dent adoption of these resolutions deprive
us of Britilh veflels, our produce would
perish on our hands. Since we have not
{hipping equal to the carriage of our whole
exports, we- can surely find fufficient em
ployment for those we have, independent
of the trade to the British Weft-India
islands; and tho' it would be a defnable
thing to be admitted into that trade, yet
is that an objedl of so much importance,
that we could be juftified in hazarding the
moll importaut ir.tereils of our country to
obtain it ? If the advancement of our na
vigation and manufaftmes is the rial ob
ject, t.-hy adopt the difcrimi.iating qua
lity ? Is it not putting us in the power of
other nations, ar.d giving them great ad
vantages without an equivalent ?
Since it is admitted that we do not en
joy any special advantage from any com
mercial treaty we now have—it is my o
pinion, that if any regulations are adopt
ed they ought to be general—if any na
tion wifhcs for an exemption and will give
us an equivalent we can secure rt to them
by treaty—if we secure to them the ex
emption by law, they will be under no
inducement to grant it as an equivalent
France whose interest is intended to be
advanced has never come forward and ie
quefted such a discrimination. Why then
should we do it unsolicited ? Ought we to
return the late generous and friendly con
duct of Portugal, by extending the dis
crimination to that nation ? The gentle
man who brought forward the resolution*
seemed to lie l'enfible of the impropriety
of such a measure, and therefore, propo
sed to draw a line which should exclude
that kingdom ; this would point the re
fjlutions so directly again It Great Bri
tain, that it would be much better to
come out in an open and manly way and
call her by name, than to do it in this
indirect mede. He closed fiis remarks
on this part of his argument, by faying
that it was a question that admitted of
some doubt, whether the commerce of
the United States was not at present in as
piofperous a situation as was for the in•'
tereft of the country ; and, whether it
would be for the genera] welfare to giveit a greater stimulus than it now had, so
as to divert the young men and farmers,
sons from other occupations and elpeciai
ly that of agriculture, and by that means
under the pretence of encouraging na\i
gation, to do a real injury to America ?
He said he would now bellow a few
observations on the political considerations
which are urged to induce the adoption of
these resolutions ; and a gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. Giles) has told us that
three quarters of his arguments and in
ducements for adopting them are deri
ved from that quarter. Say the gentle
men, the treaty of peace has never been
complied with on the part of Great Bri
tain : Thev excited a savage war on cur
frontiers, and Algerine depredations on
our commerce.
These are iejious evils that readily ad
dress themfelvcs to our paflions, and any
attempts to palliate or lelfen their influ
ence, could not, he was sensible, meet
with a very favourable reception. When
we are,, however, called upon to delibe
rate upon great national concerns, which
involve both the honor and most impor
tant interests of our country, we ought
to examine with the cool deliberate eye
of a judge, and not under the influence
of passion. That Great Britain has vi
olated the treaty, does not admit a doubt,
and that (he was also the firll to violate ;
but if we lock at home, {hall we not have
the candor to own, that we,havea!fo vio
lated that treaty ? Do not foine of the
public officers admit that we have ? There
are mutual complaints—and the Execu
tive have put that in a train of negotia
tion—and as the various ads of the State
Legislatures, the adoption of this govern
ment, which has opened the Federal
Courts in an honorable manner to the
claims of British fubje&s, has removed
the principal ground of complaint against
the United States. And the able and
mailer!y manner in which the Secretary
of State has arranged and brought up
the matter, he flattered himfolf would fa
tisfy the court of Great Britain, and in
duce a full compliance with the treaty on
their part, he thought the matter was.re
duced to such a fituatton that (he could
not withhold her compliance. A letter
has been lent to the British Court thro'
her -Min+fter on the fubj£&, to which 110
anfvver has yet been received—and one
gentieman has gone so far as to call the
delay a firjh injult.
He thought that candor lequired that
we (hould admit tliat the reason they had
given for this delay had some wait.—
Have not we ourselves confidercd Great
Britain as being in a very critical lituation ?
Has not that in fact been the cafe ? Have
they not conlidered the government it
fclf as being in danger ? If a man's house
was on fire, was it to be supposed that his
attention could be engaged in regulating
the mere unimportant concerns of his fa
mily ? Surely 110 candid man will fay that
the government of Great Britain are ve
ry criminal for having delayed an anfvvcr
to those representations, which have been
forwarded from this country. It could
not be expe&cd that they would instantly
lay aside all their great national concerns,
to decide upon them—it docs not seem to
have been expected by the executive.
He. noticed in the President's inftruc
tiows to Mr. Pinckncy—he was directed
not to commit himfelf by ill timed or too
ardent demands; he was to urge an an
swer as much as pofiible, without commit
ment, and on the firlt day of December,
to give information of the (late in which
the matter was. The time in which we
might expect an answer, is not yet arri
ved. We ought to wait a reasonable time
—if the answer (hould be unfavorable,
and all hopes of success from negotiation
should fail, and there (hould be 110 prof
peft of a compliance with the treaty on
the part of Great Britain, it will then
be time enough to bring the fubjcCt un
der confederation. He wished to have it
fairly brought up unconnected with any
other natter, and fucli meafurcs adopted
as (hould be judged best upon mature
deliberation, and after deeply weighing
evtry ciicmnftar.ce. At present the fub
jcCt appeared to him to be prematurely
brought forward.
(To le concluded in our next.)
New Theatre.
ALL persons holding shares by trans
fer, are requefled to give notice to
the Managers at the Theatre, on or before
Monday morning the 17th inli. at 10
o'clock, in order that Subfcribcrs Tickets
may be provided. Feb. 14.
PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 14
CONGRESS
House of RcprefentaU vt
Friday, Feb. 14
A message from the Senafe by Mr.
Ofcis their secretary, informed the house that
the Senate have pafled' the bill for the re
lief of Thomas Jenkins and Sons.
The house then proceeded in the consi
deration of the report on the Delaware e-
leclion.
The qucftion for agreeing to the clause
which fhtcs that John Patton is not duly
ele&ed to fcrve as a member being put,
was carried in the affirmative, nearly una-
nimous.
The clause of the report which states
that Henry Latimer is duly ele£te<J, be
ing put, a debate ensued—
The qudtion was at length determined
by yeas and uavs, 57 in favor of agreeing
to the clause and 31 against it—Mr. La
timer was accordingly qualified, and took
his feat in the house.
The Governor of New-jersey has, by
proclamation, dated the l.oth iiiftant, ap
pointed the 20th of next month, to be held
throughout the State, as a day of Thanks
giving and Praite.
A correspondent hopes, that the pre
sent republican Congrcis will, among other
republican acts, bear a teltimony against
every practice, the offspring of monarchy.
Birth-day celebrations are inconsonant
with republicar.ifm, and as such ought to
be proscribed by every man who willies to
preserve the purity of the principle—lt is
to be hoped, that the representatives of
the American nation, will not fuffer a sus
pension of their funftion6, by an adjourn
ment, to ast the part of courtiers. If la
dies and beaux take a pleasure in keeping
up this farce, that they may have an op
portunity to !hew their fine cloaths, and
display a pretty form,foot, ■ hand, or face,
it cannot be supposed that the American
Legislators are under the influence of such
frippery. Gen. Ad.
The chairman of the feleft committee
on the poft-office law, yellerday commu
nicated to the house when in committee of
the whole, a letter from the Post-Master-
General, received since the report was
drawn up, of which an extract follows :
The abuses practised by means of prin
ters' newspapers, and the great and, for
the moll part useless burthen of them in
the mails,. induce me to suggest for consi
deration whether it will not be expedient to
charge them with the fame pojlage as those
of their fubferibers ? In this cafe we should
rid the mail of much lumber and make
room for something of value. The Print
ers in the few great sea-ports receive large
packets of newspapers by every poll, many
of which they do not unfold. One of the
Baltimore printers lately informed me that
he makes no other ufeof mcft of them than
to furnifh the neighboring' (hops with
waste paper. Hardly any one printer
would theu take more than fix or eight
newspapers: now they receive from 30 to
50 or 60. Two years ago about 600 were
received weekly at the Philadelphia Post-
Olfice, for the printers of that city alone.
If they are now charged with pcftage,
the printers in half a dozen of the largcft
towns may, perhaps, agree on mutual ex
changes, to the number of fix or eight.
The printers in other towns would proba
bly content thcmfelves with the best pa
pers printed in their own capital, and a
couple from the feat of the general go
vernment.
Formerly Printers used to publish the
lifts of dead letters gratis : now they de
mand and receive pay ; and in the large
offices this expense is considerable. In
Philadelphia it amounts to a hundred dol
lars a year ; though done at rates below
the usual advertising prices. This cir
cumftancc at leaf! lejfens their title to the
favor of receiving their papers free. If
by means of the proposed reftriftion the
Printers' newspapers were reduced (as
they would be) four-fifths in number, it
would be more pra£tieable to expedite the
conveyance of them ; and expedition would
much more than counter-balencc the ex-
pencc.
Extrafl of a letter from Georgia, Jan. 17.
" You will receive by General Gunn,
an account of the melancholy and untime
ly death of our mutual friend Major For
fyth. That vile hypocrite Beverly Allen,
of South-Carolina, the pretended Mctho-
Jwt Clergvihxn, whom you will recolletl
when you arc told it ii the one who de
bauched the daughter of his neighbor,
(one ct his -brethren) and that almost in
the presence of bis wife, was the monfler
who added this to the lift of his other a
bominable deeds. Forfyth was serving a
civil process upon him in favor of a citi
zen of this state, when without the least
caution or threat, he discharged a pillol
at him, by which he died in 2 hours.—
Allen immediately (hut himfelf up, but it
was with extreme difficulty that the ma
giltrates qoulcl prevent the people of the
town from tearing him to pieces—He was
got to jail, where he i 6 now in irons, and
awaits his deserved fate. You know the
fituaticHi of the worthy family of our
friend, who depended entirely on him for
their support, and are now entirely desti
tute ; as he was in the service of the Uni
ted States, in an office which afforded but
trifling emoluments, and had long and a
bly served the public in the late war,would
it not be poifible to obtain some compen
sation to his diitreffed family for so irrepa
rable a loss !"
By this Day's Mail.
BOSTON, February 5,
The Theatre in this town was open
ed on Monday evening-—The truly Re
publican Tragedy of Gustavus Vasa,
the deliverer of his conntrv, .was honoured
as the introductory performance The"
House, as was to be expected, was filled,
" from the lowest note to the top of the
compass and the decorum observed was
charafteriftic of enlightened freemen.—
The ladits in the boxes, confirmed the ob
servation of the Poet, that " beauty needs
not the aid of ornament, but is when una
dorned, adorned the moflThe request of
the Matter of Ceremonies, was universally
complied with, and much benefit derived
therefrom to the auditory.
NEW-YORK, Feb. 13
Extract of a letter from a merchant in Li
verpool, to the friend in this city, dated
November l j —receivedyefterday per the
Jhip Lydia.
"■We have accounts this day, that the
Trench have orders, and do capture, and
fehd into port all neutral vejjels, either
bound to from the ports of their enemies ;
for this purpose they have nowfeven large
*.igates' cruising between Cape-Finifter
and the Lezaro. American (hips are now
greater rifques than British vessels, as no
American {hip coming home, can be ap
prised of this Order of the Conven
tion. They have capturcd several Danes
and Swedes, the only two nations they
were not at war with."
Extract of a Tetter from Capt. Cheefcman,
• who failed from Bolton for Philadelphia,
the 27th of November, dated Charles-
ton (6. C.) Jan. 13.
" I arrived here after a passage of 46
days, with no provisions of any kmd, hav
ing been on (hort allowance for 10 days,
till we were reduced to half a pint of wa
ter a man, land half a bifquit between four.
" Seven days after I left Boston, got
foundings off the Capes of Delaware, in
15 fathom water, but unfortunately it
came on to blow a heavy gale from N. E.
and by E. which obliged me to get off
immediately into deeper water.—But it
continued to blow so severe, that I hove
her too under a balanced reefed forefail,
to range off—this was 8 o'clock in the
morning. A heavy sea going, and it
blowing terribly, I (hipped a sea, which
entirely cleared the deck, wafting over
board myfelf mate and boy ; but by the
blefling of God, 1 got on board again,
and put the helm up, before my people
got the mate aboard, who was 15 feet
from the vefftl, but fortunately caught
hold of the cable, and so was laved : But
the boy we never saw after ; his name is
Joseph WiUcut- My passengers below re
ceived no material injury except being
thrown from one fide of the cabin to the
other, notwithstanding {he lay with her
forefail in the water, half way to the gaff,
for four minutes. The fore-fail split, and
then £he righted. In five days after, we
got fight of the Capes again, and was a
gain blown off. This gale blew all my
fails to pieces. I have experienced tight
of the molt severe gales I ever knew, and
was glad to arrive at any port. Having
been ptcferved most miraculously from (hip
wreck. It may be proper to mention that
we (houlcj all have ptriflwd after the firll
gale, had wc not spoke a vessel from Mar
bfehead, the Captain of which generoofly
and humanely supplied u» with 40 gallon*
of water;"
Extract of a letter from Savannah, Janu
ary 29.
" Our harbor at present wears a more
lively afpedl than it has for fix months
past ; we have here two copper-bottomed
merchant (hips from Liverpool, armed for
their defence as letters of marque, and X
32 gun Britilh frigate, called the Hufiar,
commanded by Rupert George, from a
cruise, but lalt from Halifax.
" No doubt you have heard of the at
tempt made by the Negroes in some part
of this (late to rife, it was in Augulli
and its vicinity, on the 25th of Dec. and
there was not a Negro to be found in the
town, they having all aflembled privately
at some house in the suburbs, all armed ;
but something of it being fufpefled, Gov.
Matthews ordered out the militia, and he
at their head difperfcd the Negroes, and
patrolled the town a whole night; by
which precaution nothing was effected.
Departed tins life the 6th init. aged 23
years, William Heylegar, Efa. late of St.
Croix—a gentleman of a most refpeftable
family, and whose personal qualities and
amiable disposition, endeared him to all
his acquaintance, ,'uid whose death they
most sincerely lament.
ARRIVED.
Ship Wilmington, Magee,
Alexander, Carpenter,
Lydia, Draymond,
Brig Merciuy, King,
Nancy, Harris,
Schr. Experiment, Bruce,
Union, Lovett,
Atalanta, Skinner,
Eliza, Fanning, Charleftori
Sloop Industry, Allen, Frederickfburgh
Hannah, Conklin, Turks-Island
Jamaica,^
An Ast for giving validity in this IJland to
Probates to be taken, by certain Officers
in the United States of America, of D'.eds
to be there executed, and atfo to Exempli
fications of Wills there proved.
WHEREAS, since the reparation from the
crown of Great-Britain of the late co
lonies, now called the United States of Ame
rica, great inconveniences have arisen to many
of his Majesty's fubjefls occasionally res ijng
in tliofe States, for want of a legal provnion
relpeiHng the probates and acknowledgments
of deeds executed in the said States, and in
tended to operate in this island: For remedy
whereof, we, your Majesty's dutiful and loyal
fuhjcils, the Lieutenant-Governor, Council,
and AfTembly of this your Majesty's island of
Jamaica, humbly beseech your Majesty that
it rray be enaded ; Be it therefore ena&ed,
and it is hereby enadled and ordained bv the
authority of the fame, That, from and im
mediately after the palling of this a<3, any
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed
whatsoever, which (hall be hereafter executed
in any of the United States of America, and
(hall be proved by a fubferibing witness, or
acknowledged by the party or parties, before
any of his Majesty's Consuls or Viee-Confuls
residing in any of those States, or before the
Chief Justice of any ef the said States, or be
fore the Chief Justice or any of the Judges of
the Supreme Court of the said United States,
and certified under the seal of any of the said
States, or the seal of the said United States,
(hall be, and the fame is hereby declared to
be, as good and effeilual in the law as if such
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed,
had been refpeiftively proved or acknowledged
before a Judge of any court of record in this
island; any law, custom, or usage, to the con
trary notwithstanding : —Provided always,
That in all cases wherein the right cr property
of any woman under coverture is intended
to be conveyed, (he (hall be examined separate
and apart from her husband, by the Judge
who attests the probate, and the said examina
tion (hall be certified in like manner as is prac
tised in Great-Britain or in this Island.
n. And be it further mailed by the autho
rity aforefaid, That the probate of any Lalt
will and tcftament, taken before any officer
authorized to take probates of wills in anv of
the said State 9, and exemplified under the
seal of the State where such probate fhr.ll have
been taken, shall be, and the fame is hereby
declared to be, as good and efiedtual in the
law, as ifiuch probate had been taken before
tlie ordinary of this ifiand ; any law, cuftcm,
or usage, to the contrary in any wile nctwith
flanding.
Pfijfed the AJfembly this nth day of Xmem
'her, 179.?.
WILLIAM BLAIvE, speaker.
7 njfed the Council, this \\th November, *793.
G. ATKINSON, CI. Council.
I coxfenf, this 6th December, 1793. *
ADAM WILLIAMSON.
Vera copia extur. G. Atkinson, Sec.
*„* The American Printers are reqtiefted
to publish this in their f'cveral ntwfpspers.
Cadiz
Savannah
Liverpool
Jamaica
Lifboa
Kingston
Petersburg
BermudaThis day is pubTiJbed,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Makkit-stieet,
( Price a quarter dollar)
A short account of ALGIERS,
Containing a description of the climate of th*t
count(v —of the maimers and customs of ihe in
hahuanrs, and of thr«r fevrral wars »£atnfl Srai*:,
France, England, Holland, Venice, and cher
powers of Europe, ? lorn the ulurpat.on of Bar
baroflj and the invafioo «>f the En»';>eror Charles
V. i«» the orrfcni lime; with a eoncife view «»f
the ongin of the ruotuie between ALGIERS
and he UNITED STATES.
Jan. 9.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. RICE, No. 50, Market-street,
alio, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Market-fteeet,
(Price, bourd, 6/6 )
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story
TO WHICH IS ADDED,
The Indian Cottage
From the French of M. de St. Pif.r*
" THfc above Stories have be« n lately pub
l:iheti, rfmoi'gft the works of a very different
na>urc, by M. de S*.. Pierre, who rtfided im the
country which tc dcfciibe*, and was well ac
quainted with the principal fa&s. Its orna
ments aie the Lanrifcaoc—the Climate—*nd
the natural history ot the, Torrid Zone, ebler
•rd with the eye of Taftr, and delineated wiih
the eye of Philof»phical knowledge. It is a
Pjftoral, of which the fabie and the machine
ry may be said to be equally real. To these are
added, the oure vrin of Moral Inftru&ion, and
the Sublime Ideas of M. de St. Pierre."
Feb. i
Insurance Company.
PhUadtiphi*, January 6, ;794-
TVTOTICE is hereby g.ven to the members
l\ of tbe Insurance Company of North-
America, that the Dire&ors-have declared a
divdeud (for the last fix months) of iix ft R
Cent, on the amount of the firft and fecoud
instalments ; and of one per cent per month
on the sums paid in anticipation of the third
instalment, calculating from the firft day of
the month following that, in wh ci> th fe pay
meHts were made. The dividend will be paid
to tbe Stockholders, or their reprelentatives,
at the company's office, No. 119 south Front
ftreet, at any time after the 13th instant.
the Directors,
EBtNEZER HAZARD, Secretary.
Jan. g. w&f im.
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In tbe Houfc of Representatives,
Declmb&R 31(1,1793.
WHEREAS the Comrnillioners of public
Accounts, h-ive reported, that they can
no" * occed to the in clination of the Treasury
Accounts, refp-ftmg special lodents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation Therefore,
Refolnd; Thai all holders of special Indents
be dtrr&cd, and rrquir.d, ou or befoie the firft
day of N»vrmber n xt, to deliver the fptcial In
dents in their possession to one or other of the
CommiQioncrs of the Treasury, who are to give
rcecipcs lor the fame, and to rep <it to theCom
m'(Goner* on public accounts, on or before the
trnth day of November next, the amount by
Ihent refpe&ivrly received, and also to the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next.
And that all special Indent* not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, (hall be, and the fame are
herebv hatred.
Rejoived. That publie notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And that the Delegates of this
State in the Congress of the United States, be re
queited to cause this rclolution to be publiflied
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York., and that provision will be
made for the expences attending such publica
tion.
That the resolution be sent to the
seuate for their concurrence.
Bv order of the House,
JOHN SAN>ORD DART, C.H.R.
In tk SENATE,
Diciubik 21(1.1793.
flefolvd, Tha? tbt* House do concur with the
Houie of Repiefenutives in the foregoing icfo
lutions.
Ordered, That the resolutions be lent to the
House of Rcprefentatives.
By order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND rot lALI BY
M.Carey, No. 118 ,Higb-Jlrcct,
The PROMPTER;
Commsstjry on Common Satikgs and
Subjects, svbicb are full of Common
Saxsa, the bejl sense in the worldl
TH IS little book is written in a flilc altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well afto all ciatTrs of people, merchants, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
woik %cqui»ed, tha! it has patted ih o three im
preflions in >he rafter n (lairs, and many hoole
holdcis deem it so ufetul as to purchale a copy
lor every aduk in then families. Psict n.
February 4. dil
NORRIS-COURT,
Back of the New L brary, between Chefnut
and Walnut-Street:
George Rutter,
REISPECT FULLY informs his friends and
ti»e public in genera!, that he continues
carrying on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or \vii)do\»-lhutters,dont in the moll
elegant manner, and with diipatch-
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30,
.)ufl Imported,
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
A'-d now nDc
ig for 'ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
sit No. 118, Market jireet,
A Large a-'d Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which bre the following
NEW Annual Regilter for 1792
European Magazine for the £rfl fix
months of I 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester locicty, 3 vols.
Prieftlv on matter and spirit
on christianity
Difney*s lite of Dr. Jortin
KingviUe's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty,a collection of essays
V'arieof Prussia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintolh
Rufleli's ancient and modern Europe
Langborne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extra&s of natural history
Saugnier and Briflon's voyage
Rocbon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerofalem delivered
Sme'lie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's hiftoty of quadrupeds
BufFon abridged
History of birds
PhiJips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.,
Curi«fities of literature, 7, vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Pielent state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudfoo's Bay
Preston on mafcnry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
KifTes of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immaterialifra
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of V oltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's (ketches of the history of raai
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's di&ionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. &: Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
WaJlis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruflia,Poland,&:c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of th« French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to female*
Hamilton's oatlines of the pra&fce of mid
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mufc!es
Pott's works
Fourrroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qnincv's dfpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases qf women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordvce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's pbyfiology
Spalanzane's diffcrtations
London practice of physic
Bell's forgery
Oaptal's cuemiftry.
Peale's Museum*
HAS Lately received a number of article;;
!m ng which are the following ; That
remarkable bird called the Cut-water, or fcif
ars-bill; The Avofette, commonly called the
Shoe-maker, because of its bill resembling a
crooked awl—The Long-leg.*, commonly call
eJ the Black-bet, having perhaps the longed legs,
in proportion to the fire of the bird, of any of
i he feathered tribe—The Storm-finch, coromoo-
W failed mother Cary's chicken—The Sea
fwallow, and various Gulh ; betides a variety
ol Cranes, Curlews, Snipes, See.
The scull of a Whale and one of its Vertebres.
An Indian hatchct made of chiyßal : It is
curious that those uninformed wild people, hav
ing very little knowledge of the arts, and being
ignorant even of the existence of iron and steel,
ftiould be able to form such hard fubftan«es in
to fanciful forms as this, and othir Indian ma
nufactures now in the Museum.
A lignified Quince : The specimen (hews
what a rcmaikable effect a dry warm (ituation
has on fruit. It is now about 8 years Gnce it
was gathered ; and 1 1 was a real quince, now be
come wood, at lead in appearance.
Presented by Mrs. Manfon of Charleftown,
S. C.—a tool used by the O'.aheitans in making
their bark cloth, by pounding the bark on this
instrument of wood, it produces the ribs which
resemble threads : the perfc&ly straight and
equal lines made in this extreme hard wood, by
men without the use of iron,are curious & won
derful.
Also, a rope made of grass, part of> the rigg
ing of a vessel of Kamfkatka.
Presented by Dr. Hall, of Lewis-town, a Squib
in spirits : when this fifh was found, a number
of ftoncs were appended to firings or ligaments
that proved from the front of its head,which
occasioned a conje&ure, as it is not furniftied
with fufficient fins to refill the violence of the
tide and currents, that it fattened with these li
gaments on whatever it found at the bottom ; so
that the stones answered the purpofeof anchors
and the ligamentsof a glutinous sticky nature,
that of cablet. Some of the (tones are in the
fame phial.
A coiledion of Minerals and other Fossils-
» r e now displayed in drawers covered with glass
and in a mode which will feeure them from de
raugement. To each fpccimen are affixed refe
rences to a book of descriptions. This manage
ment of specimens of the Fossil kingdom, ren
ders this part of the Museum very convenient
and fatisfa3ory,and great attention will be paid
to the systematical order of them, and in mak
ing the necefTary essays of each : Also in giving
in a concise manner, the various uses they are
applied to ; thereby rendering them the more
interesting to the public.
A Living Elk, of ztycm old, is just receiv
ed. By the account which monf. Buffon gives
of the Elk, it appears that he was not acquaint
ed with this American animal; he particularly
omits all notice of the curious apertures adjoin
ing the eyes of this Elk.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks*to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
tbofe of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
(horteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phztons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chairs, and barnefs
of e vory description, in the neatest and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the lead doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion to those whopleafe to employ him.
He has for fate, several carriages altnoft
finifhed, such as coacbee*, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phzton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6,1794- m&t3m
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the fubferiber has been duly ap
pointed Administratrix on the estate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herfelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law diretts—and all persons in.
terefted, are defircd to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
A LL perfoi\s who have any demands against
ix. the Estate of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subscriber, Attorney
to tbe Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who stand indebted to said Estate, are
req netted to (ettle with him immediately ; as tbe
Aet of Limitation of Actions, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
otberwife render it neceflary for him to com
mence suits againit them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793-
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requeued to insert this in their
refpeftive new (papers, and forward their ac
counts tor the fame, to J. M
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given, that there will
be paid at the Bank, after the sixteenth
mftant, to the Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty cents for each (hare, being the dividend
declared for the lait fix months.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN. Cashier.
ALL persons having any de
mauds agamil the cllate of GhORGE
WIBLE, late ol the city ol Philadelphia, bake*,
are rcqurfted to bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated ; and those who are iodebted, are
desired to make immediate payment.
HENRY REES, Aminiftrator.
2aw3w.
January 13.
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookseller, at the Stone House, in Second
ftreet Philadelphia.
X. OF
VOLUME
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionary
Of Arts, Sciences, and MifceUaneou*
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
sr WHICH
The Different Sciences and Arts.
are digejled into the form of
Distinct Treaties or Systems :
THIS volume contains principles of Levels,
Liberty, Doctrine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
don, Longitude. Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illullrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number oi families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. Dobfon, foJicits the favor
of the fubfcrsbers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poilible.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public; but as it makes
its appearance in an impcrfeft state, some ac
count of the reason of that iraperfe&ion fliould
be given. On the Bth of September last, the
Publisher had the misfortune of having his
Printing-Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the figukes, with
which he was printing the tables or lo
garithms, belonging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, be was under the necessity of pub
lilhing the volume without these taeles; but
hopes ic (hall be able to publish them with the
next volume which is now in considerable for-
wardnefs.
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
exprefling bis grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to fucb of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible neccflity of
punctuality, both in taking up the volumes a*
early as possible after publication, and of pay.
ing for them when taken. Many of the fub
feribers having got only one, two, three, L'c.
volumes, and several volumes remain vnp aid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different ftagei
from the commencement; and though rbe im
portance of a* few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles ukpmd lays the Pobliflier under
very serious embarrailment, and deprives him
of the use of many Thousands of Dollars which
at this time would be of very eflential service.
For tbefe reasons the Publiiher finds him felt
under the necessity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those who
take and pay to the time of publication.
December 10.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York
THE Subscriber intending 10 confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE &SALI or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b.gs leave to of
frr his fervicesto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their hufioefs, may drpeud
upon having it tranfa&ed with the u moil fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boftna, or any
other part of the United State.*, will he ftriftly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
cy Terms of Subscription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Subscript 'iom of perfont
•who reside at a <Tiflance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advertisements of onefyuare, or left, tn
fertedfour timet for One Dollar—once, for
Fifty Ceuts—<ind continuations at Twenty
Cents each—these of greater length ir. pro
portion. Favors in this line, arid Subscrip
tions, -will be gratrfully received at the Office
in South Fourth-Jlrret,fn>e doers north of the
Indian Queen
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No.
South Fourth-Strret.
*awti J.