00&ttU of fl)e Ijtttifei) Jf^filtt'o
EVE
[No. 81 of Vol. V.]
yf The American Brig
r I to n,
BURTHEN 700 barrels, with her tack^ e
and apparel as (he came from sea, She is a
(launch vessel, not two years old, and may be
put to sea immediately. For terms apply
to
GARDINER fcf OLDEN,
Arch Street wharf,
Who have for falc>
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
a quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and a few
calks Timothy Seed—also
Pig and Bar Iron, and Iron cast
ings, in any form executed on the
shortest notice.
March 14.
For Bojlon,
DOLPHIN,
William Nichols, Matter
WILL Sail in about eight days; for freight
or passage apply to the Captain on board at
Hodge's Wtof, betwen Arch and IlH:-
S RUMFORD & ABIJAH DAWES
3d Mon. 14, *794* diw.
ForTAmfterdam,
The new fact-Ailing, copper
r bottomed SHIP
gggl ADRIAN A,
K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight orpaflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. iff JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengcrs will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794. dtf
For Charlejion,
(South Carolina.)
Andrew Gwin, Majier.
TO fail on Tuefdaythe 18 th inft. has good
accommodations for palTengers. For freight
er pafiage, apply to the Mailer on board at
Walnut street wharf, or to
GEORGE MEADE.
d.?t.
March 14.
For sale by Public Vendue,
On TUESDAY Evening,
The 18th Inft. at 7 o'clock, at the
MERCHANT'S COFFEE HOUSE,
y^S^JNDROMACHE,
AS she came from sea, now lying at Vine
street wharf. She is a strong well buik vef
fe 1,23 a tons burthen,has made but three voy
ages, and may be sent to sea at a small ex
pence ; inventory to be seen on board, and at
the place of sale.
FOOTMAN & CO. Auctioneers.
March 15. d3U
For Sale, or Charter,
To the Wcjl-Indies, or any Port 'within
the United States ;
Darius Woodworth, Master.
"Will carry about 500 barrels, and now lies
at Wharton and Graves wharf. For terms
apply to Capt. Woodworth on board, or to
EMANUEL WALKER.
If not Sold or Charted by Tknrfday, Ihe will
then take Freight for A ! o*jolk % Peterfourgh, anil
Richmond (Virgina); and Sail on the Sunday
folowing.
Mi-ch T5
A Good Compositor &
Preffrnan <will meet nvitb conflant employ for
fix monthsy and one quarter dollar per token
and tboufand.
•Apply at No. 6j, Joutb Second Jireet.
March 15- d+t.
NING ADVERTISER.
Loft at the Theatre,
Last Wednesday evening,
A Miniature PiElure
Of a Gentleman, set in gold. Whoever
will deliver the fame at No. 112. Spruce street
fhail receive a generous reward.
March 14- 4t
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commissions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agenu of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivilible
(March6th, 1794, o<s.)
The Mimller Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of newspapers witlun the
United States, are rf quelled to repubtiih the
*diot
foregoing notice.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b gs leave to of
f< r his fcrvicesto hit friends and others, in the
line of a S'ock. Broker. Those who may please
to favor Him with theit bulinefs, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the umaofl fide
lity arid dispatch.
Qrders hoin Philadelphia, Boflon, or any
other part of the United, States, will be ftrittly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&chtf
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible lituation,-—alfo a Country Seat
•within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the viciaJt-y
of the city, in size or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying-
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
ftiorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
fiich as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeyt and chaits, and harness
of every description, in the neatest and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capita] workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaftion to those who please to employ him.
He has for sale, several carriages aim oft
finilhed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6,1794. m&t3m
To be Sold at Public Vinane,
On Friday the nth day of April next,
at the house of John Thomson, in Perth-
Amb oy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
THE Lot contains eleven acres, on which is
an orchard of grafted apple trees, a well of
excellent water, a large (lone c (tern, and a very
commodious (table and coach-hoofe, and a great
quantity of the bed building (tones in the walls
of the house, which was formerly built for the
residence of the Governors of New-Jersey. The
fuuation of this Lot is so well known for its
healtbinefs and beautiful profpe& of the Rariton
river to the weft of the bay, and Sandy-Hook to
that a further description 11 unntxellarjr.
The conditions of sale will be, one third of the
purchase money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, when a good and fufficient Deed w<II
be given to the puichafer, by Walt** Ru
therfurd, Esq. President of the Board of
Proprietors ot the Eafiern Division of New-
Jersey, and the remaining two thirds fatisfa&o
rily fccured in equal annual payments.
By order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Regiftcr.
Perth-Ambty, February 5,1794. saw am
4tfmw&f
AND
Monday, March 17, 1794.
m&th—tf
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJTortment of
SILVER E? PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY & fine CUTLERY,
Which they will difpoi'e of on the inoft rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, done as usual,
December 24,
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glass viz. Tumblers and Mags, va
rious ji-z.es i
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Jutik and Oakum, &e. (Sfe.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS ZETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
Ihouldapprieation be made 'within a few days ;
otherwise Jhe tuill take freight for Amjler
dvm.
March I, T794.
Phi l ad e l phi a,, February 13, 1 794.
PROPOSALS
Fpr pointing by Subscription,
A Work, 10 be entitle^
" THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Penttfylvania State 'Trials.
THE want of fufficicnt information of the
ftdte trials of Gieai-Britain in the early
periods of that government is now lamented :
Hi'herto there ha h been but one trial in the
state of Pennlylvania on impeachment :—and
here also it is 10 be <egietted, that, being neg.
Ictted at the time, the public are now left with
out lufficient information on the fuhjeft of that
trial, it is however in this work designed lo res
cue whai can be colleftcd thereof from sources
of ind.fputaple authority, f 0 that the fame (hall
be preserved from oblivion.
Another impeachment and the second is now
depending. An officer is charged by the late
Honfe of Representatives, who hath for many
years been largely confided in by this state, and
hath long be en at the head of the financial de
partment of the fame, and it imports the citi
zens to know hisconduft, and the circumstances
which may be brought fotward on hit trial.
In this work the Editor will be careful to
state the facts, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers before
the public.—With this view—
The following Terms are refpeflfully
submitted to the Public :
I. The Work (hall be printed in o&avo, with a
good type, on fine paper, and delivered to
fubferibers at the refpe&ive places where the
fubferiptions are taken in, as soon as the work
shall be compleated.
11. As no conjecture can well be made, as to
the length of the prcfent trial, the fire of the
volume cannot be afcertaiued at this time
But the price (hall not exceed that ofTome of
the laieft publication# in this city.
111. It will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental circumftanccs that may occur during
the trial of John Nicholfon, Esquire, Comp
troller-General of this commonwealth, with
the arguments ofcounfel oa boih fides, together
with the articles of impeachmenr, and the
pleas and replications at large, the several rc
folutions of the two branches of the state Le
gislature, refpefting this impeachment, and
the final decision of the SENATE icfpe&ing
that officer.
To which will be prefixed, as much at can be
collected from authentic documents, of the im
peachment, trial, and aequital of the laie Francis
Hopkinfon, Esquire, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty for the state of Pcnnfylvania, during
the late war, never before pnblifhcd.
No money will be required before the deli,
very of the book.
Suhfcriptions will be received by Francis
Bai!ey, No. 116, High-street ; Wriglry and Ber
riman, No. 149, Chefnut-ftreet, and by the dif
ferent booksellers in this city; Jacob Bailey,
Lancaster ; Yundt and Pattonj Baltimore, and
by the Editor.
EDMUND HOGAN.
N. B. The price will be enhanced to non
fabfenbers. Feb. it. m&wlf
[Whole No. 539.]
From the American Minerva.
The following genuine Letter from a parti
cular friend ot the Editor, now in Pans is
juil arrived.
" The affairs of the war are still in the
whirlwind of uncertainty as to its duration,
but I think there can be no doubt of its termi
nating in the eftablifliment of the French Re
public. There never has been a moment
when the nation was so powerful as at the
present, both as to its military force and as to
the efficacy of its system of finance. The
coalesced powers begin to perceive this, and
it will be really strange if they lhould continue
their mad fchcme of deftru&ion for another
campaign. A new AmbaiTador is now fet
ing out for America. I hope he will be well
received, for the government here is perfefl
ly well disposed towards us, and uncommon
ly anxious to preserve our friendlhip. ,>
mw&ftf
AMERICA,
KINGSTON, (Jamaica,) January ig.
The Freneh confined in the Bath prison
thought proper a few evenings ago, not
only to attempt breaking their durance,
but to refill the introduction of the custo
mary guard. To secure subordination
the soldiers were compelled to fire, and
one or two men were wounded, but not
dangerously.
February t.
If the complexion of Sir John Jervis'g
business in the Weil-Indies may be gues
sed at, from the firft blush, retrograde
Frenchmen have little to hope pour leur
accommodation. On hij arrival at Bar
badoes, we understand, he found near 400
republican fubjefits chiefly captured at
I obago, to whom handfoine lemu were
offered provided they wonld embark.on
the intended expedition, but resolutely
refufing, a transport was provided with
proper sea (lores and a guard, the whole
of the republicans put on board, and
towed by a frigate to a certain latitude,
where they were left to their own specula
tion.
d—-tf
The force which defended Tiburon is
estimated at 600; those who escaped from
the fire of our troops, we learn, are sup
posed to have gone to Aux Cayes. The
men of war after the redu&ion of the
place proceeded to Cape Nichola Mole.
Philadelphia.
A correspondent observes that the regula
tion of the corporation which enjo;n< that
Oyflers shall be fold by the hundred is very
impolitic.
When Oysters were formerly fold by the
bulhel, theintereftof the feller induced him
to obtain the large Blue Point Oyflers—of
these 120 to Ijo would make a buftel. Few
of this kind are now brought to market, and
as much is now paid per hundred for a fmal]
species, of -which it will require 250 to 300
to make a buHiel, a 6 was formerly paid for a
buihelof the largest size. Of course .v l-pay
twice as much for Oyllers as we formerly did
and that in consequence of the above regula
tion.
A writer in the General Advertiser of
the 15th.inft. urges in forcible terms the
importance of raising by fubfeription, a
refpeftable sum of money, and setting all
hands to work to finifh th# Canal which
is to bring us water from the Schuylkill,
" As almost the only alternative to pre
serve the health of the Citizens—with
out this, all your preachers have said and
physicians have written, will Hand for no
thing ; but by means of this, the health
of your City be in future preserved.
The Canal is the principal thing—let it
if poflible, be bro't thro' the highest part
of the City in a large gliding and
let the water run from it thro' those pla
ces which may the most require it, into
the Delaware."
" Paris, Nov. ai, 1793.
February 7.CONGRESS
House of ReprtfinJalivet.
Friday, March 14.
In ccMnuttic of tlx whole cm Mr. MaJifon"
'V reflations.
[continued.]
Mr. Hartley firft rose a .id spoke.
I am exceedingly sorry that this refo-
Itition has been pressed upon us at this
time—as I hold it would be improper now
to adopt it. It we iiave a war, which is
highly probable, the trade will be cut uii
between thele Hates and Great Britain—
and no regulations will be necelTary—l
am Aire that no one will lay that this r-fo
luiion i.i cafe of war would be a uletul or
necelTary ingredient for our defence.
The aggi effions have been so far totally
ou the part of Great Britain.
As a nation we may have a light to
pass the resolution, but as its consequen
ces arc uncertain, and as this may be coa
fHered as an ait tending to meet Great
Britain in hollility, lam not sot puffing
it at prefect.
The enormities of the Britilh lately
upon the high seas, in seizing the veflels
and citizens of America amount to piracy
and robbery, and are agais.t the law of
nations. Th;y would juftify an immedi
ate declaration of war. Prudence may
liMWi'ver iorbid it for the moment.
We {hould go cn with our preparations
for war, fall upon effectual meafurcs for
our protection—these ought to draw our
attention
There is still a poflibility of preserving
p.acc : we (hould adhere to a neutrality
until war is inevitable—let the cailfes of
war arifefrom Great Britain—let us do no
act which will throw an imputation upon
us.
If the aggreflions on the part of Great
Britain Ihould be continued, or fatisfac
tion not be made for the past—we may be
necefferily involved in war, and we ought
to be thinking of the mod effectual means
to carry it on.
The French republic exprefles herfelf
fricndlr to the United States—we Ihould
notbe backward in making returns for any
of her good offices towards us, provided
our acts dct net infringe the principles of
neutrality—l believe it to be the desire of
this country, to preserve the neutrality,
and so far as I can learn even the French
republic docs not wilh us to be involved in
war.
We have been infultcd and injured by
Great Britain in almost every part of the
glebe generolls minds; would be willing to
forget former injuries, but the late con
duct of that nation will force us to hate
her.
I still would with to avoid a war, but
if we are forced into one, and Ihould be
unanimous, Great Britain may find us
in a better iituation than she at present
imagines.
To the ea ft ward there is an armed mili
tia of 170,600, and ill geneial through
out the states men will be found to act
against a common enemy.
Nay if we are unanimous (from our
lituation) we have little to fear from Eu
ropean combinations.
This resolution, if past by a small ma
jority, would (hew a diviiion in this coun
try. Whereas, in measures at this time,
we ought to be as unanimous as pofiible.
There is no necessity for the resolution.
My vote by some may be considered as
unpopular ; but I (hall do my duty, and
am well convinced that ray immediate
condituents will approve of my condu£t.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) next rose. He
had felt as keenly, he said, the injuries
which Great Britain had inflitted on us,
as any one on the floor of congress ; but
had hitherto been Glent, as the minds both
in and out doors, were fufficiently inflam
ed, and required rather to be allayed than
further irritated. When the committee
were last on the fubjeft of these resoluti
ons, the country, he observed, was in a
very different situation from what it is
now ; the commercial relation of the two
nations did not call for them; he then
and Hill held the opinon that commercial
and political grievances (hould not be con
founded ; on that occasion, therefore he
had avoided adverting to the political con
duit of the Britilh, he considered only
their conduct in a commercial point of
view, and in this light judged the propo
sitions by no means advifeab'.e. As opera
tive on our commercial intereourfe with
that country in time of peace, they wilj
only be an injury to ourselves, and wfl.
a(Fe& matei .ally thofc Rateswhcramanufac
tures '.;crve not m ide any great progress,
and who have tire more balky articles for
exports. This was his opinion of their
tendency, when th.y were fir Ik brought
forward, and it had not changed lince.
Viewing the subject in a political point
ot lijht, the resolutions are by no means
futfieiently energetic ; both as a peace
mealure or as a war meaiure they are e
qually improper.
When the resolutions were firft before
the committee, he had entertained hopes
t.iat negoeiations with Great Britain, or
the events of the European war, would
have worked some changv in the political
condutt of that country, whicli would
enable us to prefei ve aU; ict neutrality and
avert the horrors of war from our peaceful
(liores. For war is a great evil, the peo
ple, from one end of the continent to the
other (hewed that they prized neutrality,
and the unanimous approbation of the
pacific measures, adopted by the Presi
dent (hewed that peace was the wish of
the reprcfentatives of the nation. As
long, therefore, as a gleam of hope cxiit
ed, of our being able by means of nego
ciation to keep up a good understanding
with Great Britain, so long he was op
pofsd to every measure which might tend
to interrupt the tranquility. But he was
sorry to find th-.t far from receiving the
expected {atisfaftion, aggressions have
been heaped on us with tenfold aggravati
on. We Ihould then reflect 071 measures
proper to guai d us against them ; —the
resolutions before the committee are not
calculated, he conceived, to produce this
effect; other much more efficient means
can certainly be devised, the legislature
should turn their attention to measures of
greater energy.
The legifiature should attend to the
immediate defence of the sea coast, the
organization of troops, and the means of
procuring a revenue to nerve the sinews
of war. At present our commerce yields
almolt all the revenue that flows into our
public coffers; if that commerce is inter,
rupted by a war we should devise a fub
flitute. And a lar.d tax or stamps must be
recurred to, a revenue from some source
other than commerce must be secured.
It was his vv.lh to forbear entering in
to any measures that had an hostile ap
pearance until the country is placed in a
state of defence and the means of revenue
are so organized as to put as out of ganger.
When the lubjeft of the resolutions
were firft before the house he forbore, he
said, miking any mention of the detention
of our pods, the depredations on our com
merce in the European fcas and the pira
cies of the Algerines, because negociations
were then pending of which he hoped a
favorable issue, but he owned he was dis
appointed in his anticipations. With rcf
peft however, to the Algerines, though
the annoyance we fuffer from that quar
ter is an effe£t of the unfriendly difpolition
of the British towards us, yet their con
duit in that cannot be conllrued into di
rsft hostility and we Ihould therefore con
tent ourselves with prote&ing our com
merce against those pirates by a naval ar
mament or purchase a peace.
The resolutions before the committee,
considering the critical (late of affaire, are
not only too inefficient but too tardy in
their operation- They cannot be intend
ed to operate on this spring's importation
nor indeed upon the importations of the
fall, for before this time orders are given,
and they cannot be meant to operate so
early, because they would have an ex poji
fa£to tendency. They are then to operate
upon the importations this time twelve
months. So feeble and remote an opera
tion cannot answer any good purpose.
Why proceed in regnlating our commerce,
he aflced, when the commerce is to be sav
ed from annihilation ? He was sorry the
house did not think proper to go firft into
the qucrftion of embargo. No doubt this
was a question of primary importance, but
he believed it would not produce that
(hock to the commercial interest that some
gentlemen feared, as the question was not
to lay an embargo but to empower the
President to adopt such a measure when
he thought the exigency of affaii-s required
it.
He took a view of the operation of the
resolutions as manufactures are concerned,
and endeavored to (hew that either we,
but especially the southern dates, mull do
without many articles of necessity, we are
accuflomed to receive from Great Britain,
or pay an exorbitantly encreafed price.
He wished to know what rate of increase
oa the present duties was contemplated,
by the Friends of the resolutions, and whe
ther it was intemJjd to encreafe the du
ties laid the other day, when on the sub
ject of ways and meags, on certain articles
Jtill higher. The mover of these propo
sitions, he observed, when he firft brought
them forward, openly declared, that he
did not wilh the duties very high at lirlt,
but to raise them gradually. He was de
iirous of knowing whether the gentleman
was of the faftie mind still, or whether he
now contemplated prohibitory duties.
Some gentlemen thought they had dis
covered an inconsistency in the arguments
of those opposed to the refolulions ; be
cause they maintained, that they might
accelerate war and at the fame time are
not fuiKeiently energetic. The observa
tions he believed just. The resolutions will
have an irritating and therefore holt lie
tendency and yet they are perfectly im
potent in effect in cafe of hostility. We
have reason to contemplate a state of war,
we fliould therefore exert all our means to
prepare for such a llate, we fliould fortify
our harbours, raise a revenue, organize
troops, and put ourselves in complete rea
diness, yet at the fame time we fliould Dot
hold irritating language; let us hold out
that we wilh peace as long as peace can be
prefcrved, and when war is unavoidable
not meet the event unprepared. He hoped
the resolution would be negatived as a
measure inefficient in the present critical
situation of affairs and only tending to ir
ritate unnecessarily.
Mr. Giles conceived that gentlemen
built their opinions on an idea, that if we
adopt this refutation it is to prevent other
measures from being taken. These reso
lutions he considered as powerful auxil
liaiies to any other measure which it might
be thought prudent to pursue. He pro
ceeded to point out that the resolutions
contemplated mull have a ufeful tendency
in the event of a war. If a war takes place
a termination to it mull be expected;
then this fyllem will form the best ground
of negociation. Great Britain in a ne
gociation for peace would certainly be
willing to give an equivalent for any re
laxation of the regulations meant to be
eftablilhed by the resolutions. In this
finglc point of view they undoubtedly are
a very important engine. The executive
are by the constitution empowered to
make treaties, but the legislature should
put the nation in the best possible state to
negociate them on advantageous terms. If
we are to have war, the resolutions can,
at any rate, do no harm, and at its termi
nation must produce a great good. If we
remain in a state of peace, he believed the
firft operation of the resolutions would be
to encreafe the revenue : by degrees only
the importation would be difcouragedand
then a spur would be given to our manu
factures. He enlarged on this idea and
dwelt further upon the peace operation of
the resolutions. Here we (hall not at
tempt to follow the gentleman, because it
would involve a repetition of ideas expres
sed in former debates on these resolutions.
He believed there is as as yet no defici
ency in the revenue of the United States.
If a deficiency should take place, he (hould
be ready to make it up. If our importa
tions and consequently our impost revenue,
(hould decrease, our ability to pay taxes
in another (hape, will encreafe in the fame
proportion.
He next began to animadvert upon ob
servations which fell some days since, from
Mr. Lee, who, he said, had aliened ge
nerally, that there appeared within the
walls of Congress, a disposition in some,
to violate the rights of a certain kind of
property. He wished the gentleman to be
more explicit as to the pevfons he alluded
to,and the expressions that warranted the
belief he had exprefled. Mr. Giles was
interrupted, and declared to be out of or-i
der.
Mr. Dexter then rose. The lefj love
or hatred we bear to foreign nations, the
less fear of them will a&uate our councils.
We should legislate only for our own coun
try. He made this observation, he said,
to introduce his principal objection to the
resolutions, viz. That they difcrimate
between foreign countries, because we hate
the one, and love the other, and tax our
citizens to gratify those paflions. This
was his principal objection to the proposi
tions; an objection that no alteration of
circumstances could do away, an objection
which rells on the immutable interest of
this country, to be detached from foreign
politics as much aa possible.
It is true that though these resolutions
were adopted, we (hould be rble to adopt
any other energetic measure; but he object-
Ed to wafting time on this, when more
serious concerns call for our attei.tion. If
we were attacked by an assassin, (hou'.d
we, he aflced, spend our time in fixing
our sword knot or feather, should we not
rather think only of defending ourselves.
Should we now spend time in difcuiHug
commercial theories ?
The gentleman last up said these resolu
tions would be important at the termina
tion of a war, then furcly there is time e
nough to consider the ground we wish our
commerce to Hand on at the end of a war
which is not yet declared. If we are en
gaged in a war, our commerce will not re
quire to be regulated, and the palling thele
resolutions, will be an obstacle to peace
rather than tend to secure to us advanta
ges for their relaxation. Another consi
deration had weight on his mind : Why
(hould we discriminate ? Because one na
tion is hoftileandtheother friendly. Strong
as our partiality may be, where is the Eu
ropean nation that sonfers acts of kindnefj
on us at the prefetit time t He saw none
that merited a return of good offices.
If we are involved in a war with Great
Britain we {hall not remain at peace with
Spain, as it is the drift of the resolutions
to encourage the commerce of foreign na
tions and Spain among others, at the ex
pence of that of Great Britain; then at
the close of the war the weight which a
relaxation of those regulations may have,
as Great Britain is concerned, will have a
sontrary and proportional effeA as Spain
is interelted ; for every diminution of the
restraint on the British commerce will be a
diminution of the encouragement granted
by law to the Spanish.
Nature intended that we fholild be out
of the reach of the politics of Europe,
our interelt is loud again# the connexion ;
if the resolutions are paflfed, a basis will be
laid for a permanent fyftcm of commerce
with them, a link he never' >vithed to fee
eftabiifhed. If we meddle with European
pol tics, we may catch the contagion which
so unfortunateijpdcfolates one fine countr),
but which is perhaps there a necefThry,"or
at leall unavoidable evil. He feared the
efFect of dilfentions fcmong us; a reign of
anarchy would lead to despotism. This
he dreaded more than the efte&s of exter
nal aggrefiions. He wished all thoughts
were at present turned to felf-defence, to
devising and organizing the means.
It was faidthat the resolutions had not
a tendency to provoke war. If it is the
intention of the nation against which they
are meant to operate to make war, it is
immaterial in this refpeA,whether they do
or do not pass. But to spend time on
them is trifling at this critical jun&ure.
They may have an injurious tendency,he
believed. We had been told that the ma*
nufa&urers and merchants of Great Bri
tain would not fuffcr the government to
go to war with us. By patTmg the refo
lntions the friends of which fay are tr
perate against those very classes of people
we fhrll destroy that check and render a
war with us a popular measure. We have
much (hipping in the ports of our a&ual
tho' not yet declared enemies, will any
irritating measures tend to the security of
that property ? Will they not diminish
the chance of their being released ? By
pafling the resolutions we should {hew our
temper without retaliating, and we should
unjustly epprefs the mercantile interest.
It is fufficient to {hew that the resolutions
are inefficient to prove that they ought
not to pass. If there is no reason why
they should pass that is reason fufficient
against them.
He believed if the rcfolutions had not
been brought forward before this day, no
member would have thought this a time
fit to introduce them, then why now insist
upon a decision on them ? They are rob
bed of the object on which they were in
tended to operate. They cannot be
oufly intended to repel aggressions, tht-y
are only a shew of resentment without o
peration. This is not the time for such
feeble ireafures ; our commerce, our ve
ry exigence as an independent nation is
threatened. The present war is a war of
political principles; we mud secure our
fclves against attack, and avoid all con
nexion, as much as pofiible with Euro
pean politics. Let the ocean be a gulph
of partition between us and the eastern
hemilphere, at least till the present con
vulsions are at an end.
(To he conliuveJ.)
WANTED
AN APPRENTICE
To the Printing B ifinefs, Enquire at
o£cc.For Tar Gazette of tub Vsitlo States
Mr. Fenno,
A WRITER in your paper of Saturday
evening opposes the new dudes projetfled hy
Ctmgrel* on Brittlh manufactures on the
principle that they will eventually fall on the
conftrmers ; and he asks with an air of tri
umph, whether every man that builds a
house or wants a coat, fliould pay high prices
for hinges and cloths to compenlate the mer
chant ? I answer clearly yes —the merchants
are part of the community, and if they are
exposed to fuffer grievous oppreflions, with
«ut the power of retaliating by the forbear
ance of government, the whole community
are bound to bear their (hare of this loss as
well as the merchants. Pray, Sir, why fliould
not (hopkeepers feel a little what is going as
well as their brethren who are carried Haves
into Algiers, or plundered of their all in the
Weft Indies.
I believe if your friend the Iron Monger
had been accustomed to deal in British irons
of anoiher kind, as some of our unfortunate
countrymen have been, he would not write
with quite as much coolness as he does on this
occasion, but would be very ayt to become
a little of a busy politician himfelf, and join
the little gentleman in endeavouring to in
spire very tall gentleman with a with at least
by commercial regulations to repel the tin
merited ami unprovoked insults daily sustain
ed by our Commerce and
NAVIGATION.
Foreign Intelligence.
LONDON Dec. 17,
Barnnve, latrly executed at Paris, was one of
the handforrefland mofl eloquent men of the
: hr was an advocate bv profeflion, and until
lire flight of the unfortunate L<>us to Virennes
a tetolutionift ; he had been several times Prefi
d-nt of the National Aflembly, and was one of
the deputies chosen to conduit the King to Pa
ris ; he was moved by Wis fuffeiings, and became
a profelvte to the cause when it was too late.
An epidemical fickncfshas broken out among
th* Portuguese troop? that were intended to ast
in concert with the Spaniards. Meeting withcon
trary winds, and being a long time at sea, is f3id
lo 1 uve caufrd this calamity.
The Pandora French frigate, and a cutter pri
vateer, have taken ten and four Dutch
ilirps, and sent most of them to Fiance.
1 he Americans have ordered thirty friga'es to
be built, in confequr nee of the declaration of
"war agamft that country by the Algetines.
All the Imall ports in the East Indies, which
were in pofFcflion of the Fiench, have either lur
rendered to, or been taken by our forces, of
%iuch Nahic and Chandernagore arc the chief-
SHREWSBURY 23.
About a forinighr ago, a beautiful cffilated
floor was d :fcovertd 011 the farm of Mr. Werier,
at IHe Lea, between Hanwoocl and Pont'(bury.
It is a „d 14 f cc t square, confiding of
small teffela- of red B>ick, whitilh marble, and
brown, bltfck, and grey ftone;and appears to
have belonged co some elegent Roman villa, mor
tar floors having been Inund near it, thrae feet
fflow its level, with ihe foundation* of such
nrirk pillars as usually supported the floor of the
iudatoiy : numerous fragments of square flues or
lunnc Is of ij| f) furied within with smoke, are al
io found : with some pieces of leaden pipe, char-
Ted wood, pottery of bhekifti earth, and a chan
nel or gutter, to carry off water, corresponding
"with the dclcentof the ground.
UNITED STATES.
SAVANN AH, February 8.
IVe hear from St. Augftine, that the Spani
ards have broken up and tfeflroyed all the Set
tlements on the rivers St. John and St. Maty :
they gave the American fettiers the option of
retiring, with their effects, to St. Augvjline,
in eight days; or of returning to the United
States,in three days : Many chose the former,
and about forty families adopted the latter al
ternative. Several Americans were appre
hended, and committed to close confinement, on
fnfpicion of harbouring againfl the peace
of the province*
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 17.
ExtraS of a letter from New-Tori, dated
I $tb March.
" This moment we have account by a
gentleman from St. Euftatia, that all the A
inerican veflels had their colours hoisted, in
consequence of orders received from England
for restoration of their veflels and cargoes."
The prefcnt 1.-; a critical period with the
United States—How to fleer our political ship
so as to arrive at the desired port, will require
the concentered wisdom and firmnefs of A
merica—Congress and the President form
that centre,if we have not confidence in their
deciSom, all is lojl—Thefhipmuftbe under
their command or she will be wrecked.
Paflion and Resentment fays a Correspon
dent, are the <u>orJl because they are the most
un<u>tf 1-giflators—They are not only unwise
but feeble counsellors—with good adv'cc fays
Solomon, make war. May the decisions of
our civil fathers at this important crisis, prove
that tuifdom as well as freedom have found
an asylum in the United States.
MR. Fenvo,
It is fmcerely to !>e wilhed that the meeting
at the State House to morrow evening may
be numerous and refpe&able—for it fliould be
considered, that this is not meant as a partial
meeting of i/eno me-rhants, tut to comprise
every class of citizens, every friend to Ame
rica, who conceives himfeli interested in her
welfare at this political juncture, this impor
tant crilis of public affairs.
Citizens of Philadelphia ! be ftedfaft in the
preservation of your rights.—Remember the
patriotism of 7;, and the causes which cal
led it into a&ioii. Remember the insults and
injuries so recently received from the ma.her
country—compare the latter with the former;
and while you retain the comparison in ybur
breads, you will be enabled to judge of the
neceflity of maintaining the dignity of free
men- JU NIO.
Mr. Smith of Maryland, after inform
ing the House that h« had some proposi
tions to make, which he lhouid wilh to
introduce when the doors were closed—
moved that the galleries lhouid 'c cleared
—He observed that when the proportions
were before the House, it might then be
determined whether they fliould be pub
licly difcufled or not—lt was voted that
the galleries (hould be cleared—which ac
cordingly took placc at about one o'clock.
FIRE IN FAYETTE VJLI.fc,
On the mvfit of thursday the *jth. February at a
very late hour, the large for e at the foot of th:
bridge, belonging to Mr. Cochran was dfcovered to
be on fire, and had communicated the fames to Dr.
Sibley's New commodious dwelling house, Printing
and I'o/l Office—the fa e had takenfuik pofjeffion of
these houjes, that all at tempt Ao extinguijh it proved
ineffectual ; in a vet) short time they were burnt to
the growd s vifh all the valuable out h'oufes. and lea.
ther manujadouy adjoining. Fortunately the night
was calm, which, aided to the exertionj of the citizens,
and the fre company in particular, the fames were
prevented J rem doing Jar the r and immenfc injury.
Doflor Sit ley ana Jamil \ hadbutjuf tm e to efcape y
he has five d v ry lithe oj his furniture or other prop
erty, ythe whole ofhn printing apparatus is los, and
munywftnc papers oft' 1 < Pof office, with all hh hand-
Jome ajsortment of Dr*gs and medicne. This unfor
tunate affair is ef,mated to b e a dear los of tight
tkoufand dollarj t to Mr. Cochran, Dr. bib.ey% and
M'Auflan and Howat.
By this Day's Mail.
STEW-YORK, March 15.
Extract of a Utter from the Captain of
the Ship Amsterdam Packet, of this
port, bound to Havre de Grace—dated
Liverpool, Dec. 13th, 1703.
" On the 34th day of our departure
from New-Yoak, about the entrance of
the Englilh Channel, we were captured
by a Liverpool cutter privateer and escor
ted in here, where in all probability my
veflfel will be gutted : (he is on the loiig
lift of poor kidnap'd Americans. While
this war continues, what with Algerir.es
and Englilh pickaroons, it is a folly for
us to venture on the European coalts
I have undergone a long lift of interroga
tories refpedting my vefTel and cargo by
commissioners appointed for the purpose,
tokuow whether it is American property
or not,one of which was, willjyou venture
to /wear that you belie-ue (though you
may not poflibly Inow) part of the cargo
is French property !—What a modest
question."
Capt. Wait, of the schooner Maria,
arrived here this day, and who left St.
Vincent's 20 days ago, where his veiTel
and cargo was condemned*, inform#, that
he saw an English paper, which he thinks
was the London Evening Post, and was
cf the 4th January, in which he read the
following acconnt refpe&ing the naval ar
mament at Toulon, viz : " That the
French had re-taken from the Englilh in
the harbor of Toulon, 15 fail of the line
of their battle (hips, one of which was
burnt by accident; and also, that they
had taken 5 fail of the line and J frigates
of the English fleet; and that the Combi
ned Forces loft twenty thousand men at
Toulon. This, the printer fays is the
French account, and it is hoped not to be'
true, but the circumstance of its being ve
ry boisterous weather, and the wind blow
ing direfMy into the port on the 18th and
19th of December, leave but too much
room to apprehend there is something in
the account.
At St. Vincent, Capt. Wait saw Capt.
Scott, who arrived at that iiland from
London, the 20th of Feb. who informed
Capt. Wait, that previouflv to bis failing
from London, the house of lord Hood was
pulled down to the ground,and he burned
in effigy. Capt. Wait also informs, thr*t
the British fleet in the Weft Indies made
an unfuccefsful attack on St. Picric, Mar
tinico, the I 7th of February, and retired
with great damage ; and that on Tuesday
tiie ißih, at night, they re.iewed the
tick, bvapproaching' tlie to>vn by lair_l c
us buck, and carrie 1 it '.>y fljrm, vrim t:
iofsof B.igadier General Campbell, o:ie
major, and two captains, one of whom
was named Bailey, who, with his whole
party, confiftingof 160 meti, were cut off
in the attack. The Britiih 101 l a conlider
able number of subalterns and privates—
how many was not known. All the men
in the town of St. Pierre were put to the
sword.
* For being concerned in a traffic deemed
contraband in a time of peace, as appears by
the decree of the Court of Vice-Admiraly.
Extrail of a letter from Bermuda, dated
February 21
" Almost all the privateers are in at
present, and a great many of tliem are
laid up. Of late, they have been very
umuccefsful. I widi sincerely the bulimia
was over, and peace once more eltablilhcd."
St. VINCENTS.
In the court of Vice-Admiralty.
Jones, vs. Schooner Maria.
FROM better information and re-con
sideration of this cafe, I am induced to
change the opinion exprefied in the inter
locutory sentence. In the cafe of Berens,
vs. Ruckss, ill Sir William Blacllone's
Reports, the doctrine laid down by Lord
Mansfield is clear and conclusive "If a
neutral (hip trades to a French colonv,
with all the privileges of a French Ihip,
and is thus adopted and naturalized, it
must be looked upon as a French /hip, and
is liable to be taken."
The point too agreeable to Magens,
page 458, strongly infilled on bvthe at
torney general, " That ever)' kind of traf
fic between a neutral and belligerent pow
er, which was not alywcd in time of
peace betwixt such ftatts is illicit," ap.
pears to be well founded ; although my
fentimer.ts at firll were otherwise. The
constant practice during the war of 1756,
is fufficient eaufe for me to alter my opi
nion. All neutral velfels in that war car
rying 011 trade which they were not allow
ed to do in time of peace, if takeu were
constantly condemned.
It appears in evidence that the expor
tation of sugars from the French ifiands
in neutral bottoms was not allowed in time
of peace ; of course filch exportation must
be now illicit, agreeable to the latter max
im and the pradtice of the war 1756. A
nentral state, which either through parti
ality or an indirect view of profit, will
make uncommon and ftr.-:nioi:s exertions
to supply the wants or rric-r the trade of
a power at war, will ever in some degree
participate in the hard/hips and difficulties
of war.
Upon the whole regarding this veflel,
in either point of view, ihe has carried cn
an illicit trade, or she has enjoyed the pri
vileges of a French (hip, and has been
adopted and naturalized as such. 1 can
not therefore on this grounds hesitate to
pronounce her guilty ; and to decree that
(he is a legal prize.and delivered with her
cargo, boat, apparel and furniture, to the
captors, and be iold by the marshal of the
court.
GEO. LOWMAN,
Judge Surrogate,
Court of Vice Admiralty.
February 17, 1794.
A True Copy,
WALTER WATERS,
D. Reg. Court of Vice Admiralty.
SHIP NEWS.
Arrived
Brig Jerky, Gardner, Cadiz
Schooner Polly, Gilbert, Cape-Francois
Apollo, Hempftead, Bermuda
Sloop Betty, Burnham, Port-au-Prince
Clearances.
Sloop Mary, Sands, Wt (Undies
Induflty, Blake, Norfolk
Capt. Gilbert lift in Cape Francois,
Snow Eliza, Loyell, of New-York
Brig Columbia, Bernard, do.
Schooner Hope, Higbee, do.
All waiting for the payment of their
cargoes.
•Hie (hip Chafe, Captain Talman, is
arrived at Boston, from the Isle of France.
Brig Salem,of Philadelphia, Hugh War
ner, Commander, arrived at Cape-Fran
cois 12th Feb.
Sloop New-York Pricket, Hubbard,
Wilmington and Nantucket, through the
Sound—put into Nantucket in distress,
having loft all her fails, &c.
TffF. On$FRrFK> andfrueral other
arcicl.-s are unaaoidably pojljxmcd till fTi9
morrow.
NLW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
March 17,
Will be performed,
A Tragedy, called
ISABELLA,
O R,
The Fatal Marriage.
Count Baldwin, Mr. Wiiitiock
Biron, Mr. Feimell
Carlos, Mr. Green
Villeroy, Mr. WVncil
Sampson, M . i'a.cj
Belford,
Pedro,
Officer,
IfaMla,
Nurl'c,
Mr. VVa r ,i
Mis. Wbitlocli
Mrs.
To which will be added,
A FARCE in two ails, callrd
Saint Patrick's Day,
OR J
The Scheming Lieutenant.
Written by the Author of the Sc-jjol for
Scandal.
Lieut. O'Conner,
Justice Credulous,
Doctor Rosy,
Seijeant Trounce,
Corporal Flint,
Soldiers,
Mr. G«,i
Mr. Hmvood
Mellrs. Finch, De
Moulin, DarLy, jun.
and Cleveland.
Blacksmith,
Countrymen,
Mr. Moreton
MeflVs- Warreil,
BlilTet and Winu-ll
Servant, Mailer J. Wan J1
Bridget, M rß . R 0
'.vloa
Laura, Mrs. Francis
With a new occasional overture com
pofcd hy Mr. Reiiiagle.
Books of the Songs to he had at the
Theatre,
Tlie Scenes deligned and executed by
Mr. Miibourne.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requcfted to
fend their fervantt to keep places, at in It an
hour past 4 o'clock, and to order them .0
withdraw, as fbon as the company arc fcate ,
as they cannot 011 ny account be pcriaicccd
to remain in the boxes, nor any places Jtcot
after the firft a<sl.
No places can be let in the fide boxes to; a
left number than eight, nor any places le
tiined after the firft a<sl.
N. B. No money or tickets to be returned,
nor any person admitted on any account
whatever behind the l'tenes.
*** As inconveniences to the public have
arisen from the Box-book being opened on the
days of performance only, in future attend
ance will be given at the office in theTheat.e
every day si oin ten till one, aud on the da ,1
of performance from ten till three o'clock n
the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, it is
refpe&fully requeued, may be adiLciltd to
Mr. Franklin, at the Box-Office.
For 80/ ion,
& Harriott,
, Jofiah Bernard, Mujltr.
\V ILL lail the 25 h inft. Has good arc* inm >-
da ions. For freight or palfe;;*', apply 10 1 e
C p am on board ot Mr Smis's wharf. <•» -n
JOSEPH ANTHONY ij SON.
M'rch 17. d.25
At a Meeting of the Merchants
and Traders held at Philadelphia at the H.v >
and Grown Tavern, onTuefday the
infant,
It <waj UnanimouJlj RtfolvrJ,
Th it the meeting be adjourned, to meet
at the State House on Tuesday next at fiv_-
o'clock P. M.and that the Citizens in gene -.1
of the City and County be invited to attend.
March 17. d Jt
Lately Published.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Seconu-Steeet:
r T*HK Hiftoty ul N w Hampshire, fro.n (he
1 D fcnveiy of il»r R vrr Pifcaiaqm—b*
rcmra/i Rtlk**p, D. D 3 Vols. Price i.» B , auf , #
4 Dollars.
The Fo«rrft.T, an American F'ble, bein > a
Sequel to 1 he Hilloi y oi J .hn Bull the Cioihicc.
Pro , 75 Cents.
A Uifcourfr, iri'endt-ri »o the
Difcovrry of Amenta bv Clirilloplnr» C'»lnni.
bus; delivered at the reqoeft ot the HHfttt -I
Society in Mair*chulctis October cjj t i 7 q.,
being the on ol the Th»i i C« ,1 1, ,
fmce thai memor?ble event. To vhirl,
added, F<»ur I>:fTt nations, connected wiih u.c
fiibjeft— By the tame author. Puce, $XjCen ».
March 17. iwiiu
Mr. C! ..
Mr. i" r ., ■. -i
Mr. Whitlock
Mr. Bcites
Mr. I'VanciiFor Sale by tbe Subscribers,
MUSCOVADO Sugar in hhds.&bbsl.
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherrv Wines, of superior quality, in pipes
ami quarter calks,
Spanilh Indigo.
B'ifton Beef, in barrels.
And a small invoice of Muslins.
NALBRO' & JOHN IRAZIER,
No. 164, South Front-ftrcct.
March 8,
Loft at the Theatre,
IN Chcfnut Street, a handsome Shawl, com
monly called Camels Hair ; worked with co
lours. Whoever will ietum it to the Printer,
Hial) recfceive a handsome reward.
March 12, 1794- 3'*
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, JAPANN'D
PLATES,
Done in the most elegant manner, and after
the firll mailers ; likewise,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finifhed at the Ihorteft notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth streets.
March 4<
Treasury of Pennsylvania,
/ February I4> 1794*
PUBLIC Notice is hereby given to all persons
indebted to the Commonwealth, for monies
borrowed of the Trustees of the Loan Office,
cUab'ifhed per ast of the 4th of April, 1785,
that the time is expired when the last payment
should have been made, and every juftifiable
indulgence having been granted, That unless
they come forward and pay off their refpettive
balances on or before the firft day of April next,
precepts w»ll issue against all delinquents with
out regard to persons or All
former and ex:fting Iheriffs, who have money
in their hands belonging to said Office, are re
queftcd to br.ng it to me on or before the above
period, otherwile I fh :ll be under the disagree
able neccflity of prolecuting them without dif
tin&ion.
CHRISTIAN FEBIGER
P S. The Printers throughout the State are
requcfted to iniert the above in their papers for
flumfoi mation of their fellow-citizens. d
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased,
TheHoufe N°. 245,
AND
Lot of Ground
On which it stands, wherein Jamls Biddle
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
street, near Sixth-street.
""["•HE House being 18 feet 10 inches in
A Front on Market-street, and the Lot
H7 feet deep. The whole will be Ibid fub
je<£t to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, pavable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their successors
forever. For terms apply to
Samuel Coates,
Jonathan Jonfs,
Anthony W. Morris,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, dee'd.
*eop 3W
March 1, 1794-
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at bis Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street :—
A few Bales of Russia Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Tookay, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Brimstone,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. 10. 3"w6w
WHEREAS an alias fubpocna has issued
out of the Supreme Court of this Com
monwealth, at the suit of Marc a ret Ev ans,
upon a petition preferred by the said Marga-
r et, praying tor a Divorce from the bonds of
Matrimony,entered into with Robert Evans*
This is tog«vc notice to the said Robert, that
he be and appear at the said Supreme Court, to
beheld at the City of Philadelphia on Monday
the seventh day of April next, at the State-House
in the said City, to answer the matters alledged
Wm. CHAPMAN,
Sheriff of Bucks County,
March 5, 1794-
To Robert Evans.
A Slitter of Iron
WANTED.
A MAN well (killed in rolling and
flitting Iron into Sheets, may have
good encouragement by calling on the
Printer. Feb. 27. eop4t
(£j- This Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement—The Subscription
encreafes daily—Adverting Favors are
folicited —These conjlitute an ejfential Item
n diminijhing the Debit Jide of the Account.
NO RRIS-COU RT,
Back of the New Library, between Cheinut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL. A.TES,
for doors or window-fhutters,donfc in the most
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to. 1
December 30, dtf
fmw4W
Excellent CLARET,
in hogP»eads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
No. ill, South Front ltreet.
Jan. 2, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
M.Carey,No. 118,High-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, 'which are full of Common
Sense, the lejl sense in the world.
THIS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all claffcs of people, merchants, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
work acquired, that it has patted thro three im
preflions in the eastern dates, and many houfe
holdeis deem it so ufeful as to purchase a copy
for every adult in their families. Price 2s.
February 4. dtl
Just Imported,
[n the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Petersburg in Ruflia,
And now landing South-street Wharf, viz,
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-street.
diw3tawtf
March 4,1794-
War Department.
January 30 th 1794.
INFORMATION is hereby given to «»ll the
military invalids of the United States,that the
sums to which they are entitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on the sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Commissioners of the Loans
within the dates refpeftively, under the usual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
must be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpc&ive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prefid-.nt
of the United S'ates,
Sectetary oj IVar.
The printers in the refpe&ive states are
requcftcd to publilh the above in their newspa
pers for the space of two months.
January 30
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representatives,
December 21(1,1793.
WHEREAS the Commiflioners of public
Accounts, have reported, that they can
not proceed to the investigation of the Treasury
Accounts, refpefting special Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation -.—Therefore,
Rcfolvcd % That all holders of special Indents
be directed, and required, on or before the firft
day of November ru xt, to deliver the special In
dents in their polTeflion to one or other of the
Commifliontrs of the Treasury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to report to tfeeCom
miflioncrs on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
them refpe&ively received, and also to the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next,
and that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, lhall be, and the fame are
heieby barred.
Rejolved, That public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And that the Delegates of this
State in the Congress of the United States, be re
queued to cause this resolution to be publifocd
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for the expeoces attending such publica
tion.
*iaw4W
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
Senate for their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SAN FORD DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
Dkcsmbik 21(1,1793.
Resolved, That this House do concur with the
Houle of Representatives in the foregoing refo-
lutions.
Ordered, That the resolutions be lent to the
House of Representatives.
By order of the Srnafe,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov.
JOHN VAUGHAN,
AND FOR SALE BY
H. KNOX,
d2m
JuJi Imported,
From London, Dublin, and Glasgow,
And now opening tor Tale,
By MAT HEW CAREY,
No. 118, Markei-Jlreet,
A L:n'ge and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Regilterfor 1792
European Magazine for the fir ft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Mauchefter society, 3 vols *
Priestly on matrer and spirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoii s of Guy Jolt
Memty,a collection of elTays
Varieof Prussia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
RulTell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and BrifTon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Tow 11 (end's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerusalem delivered
SmelHe's translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
1 Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
KifTes of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immateriahlm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's (ketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Benignns
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Wat fan's life of Philip I Id. &r Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Walts on the prevention ofdifeafes
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark, Ruflla, Poland,&c.
Cox's ravels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life ofLor<) Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's diflertations
London practice of physic
Bell's furgety
Chaptal's chemistry. d
FOR SALE,
By MATHFW CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery
Designed to exhibit in a new point of view,
its effects on morals, indujlry, and the peace of
ociety. Some tacts and calculations are offered
to prove the labor of freemen to be much more
produQive than that ot Jlaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the n ceflaiy conclusion, that
flavcry is impolitic as well -s unjujl.
Price *5 Ccutti
Februlry ts.
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs bis friends and
the public, That from the encouragement
he has received, from several refpcdable Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his leivices to
all thoCe Gentlemen, who can place confidence
in him ; and he allures those who employ him,'
that their confidence (hall not be miiplaced
but it (hall be his constant endeavor, to pay the
ftri&eft attention to their best interest, in all ne
gociations whatever. He has taken the
in State-Street, over Mr. David Tuwnjend, Watch
Makei's Shop. Where PUBLIC ShCURI
TIES, of all kinds, are bought and fold ; and
where Commiflion Bufitiefs of all kinds, will be
tranfa&ed on reasonable terms. HOUSES nnd
VESSELS will bt conftanily exposed iorfale, ori
commiflion. ,
*1* Carti paid for Salem, Providence, and
Portsmouth BILLS.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York, has anj Bufine/s to tranfad at BojUv,
in Paper Negociations, he will be happy to be em
ployed on commijjion.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794,
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON the 31ft of last month, the fubfcrib< r ad
drcfTcd a letter to Miffrs. Thomas PearJaU
£# Son, meichants in New-York, and irtcloied
therein a bank note, No. 445, for twenty dol
lars ; one ditto, No. 1,51, tor thirty dollars;
and one ditto, No. 3,866', for twenty dollars.
—He also addrc(Ted a letter to Mr. Gilbert
Saltonjialf, merchant in New-York, incloiing a
bank bill, No. 148, for fif:y dollars, indorlfd
on ihe back thereof in these words—" Pa) the
within to Mr. Gilbert SaltonJlall-—f.ben. hunting
ton."—He also addrcfled a letter to MeflTrs. White
& Wardel/, merchant* in New-Yotk, and inclo
sed a bank bill for ten dollars, and a draft in fa
vor of said White & Wardel!, which letters were
put in the Port-Office on said 31ft January, to
be foiwarded to New-Yoik : But by letters re
ceived from the Gentlemen to whom they were
severally addressed, the money was robbed
from each letter before delivery.
The Public are requeued to endeavor a de"
teftion of the V'llains who committed the above
lobbery. The bill indorsed, I think was a York
bank bill, and some others, one or more was
of the United Sta'.cs bank, remitted at Philadel
phia. Any person discovering the Thief, and
returning the Money, (ball be entitled to fifty
dollars reward.
EBEN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, 14th F'b. 1794. 3w3taw
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from a&ual survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS P.an will be engraved on a plate 26
inches square ; and it will contain an ex
alt defcr.ipiion of all ihe squares, Arrets and
alleys in ihe City and Liberties. The fiiuaiion
of the fevcral public buildings, such as ihe State-
House, City-Hall, Scat of Congress, Churches,
Meeting- Hospital, Library and Semina
ries of Learning— of the several Banks, and of
the Federal and State Offices, will be afcortained.
The pans which are built on will be diftingmfil
ed from those that are not. The courses of the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended to connect the
navigation of these two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a
view of the Ibipping in the harbor, and an ele
vation of Congress-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In short, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and desirable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power :
and it (ball be compleated with ( thc greatest
poflible dispatch, as soon as the generous encou
ragement of fubferibeis dial I insure to the author
such a sum as will be fufficicnt to defray ex-
pcncrs.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the Subscribers names, and information con
cerning the police, population and prcfent (late
of the city.
The price to fubferibets will be Two DolUrt
and one third, to be paid at the time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Subfcrtptions will be gratefully received at
the principal Booksellers iu this city—and the
original Draft may be seen at B. Davies',
No. 68, Markrt-ftreet, at any time until it (hall
be put into the hands of the Engraver.
Feb. 28.
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY, '
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchants Coffee-Houfe of this
City :—
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippcn-Street, be
tweeif Third and Fourth-Streets, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly improved, and is now
very commodious ; where he has turnilhed him
rdi with the bed of LIQUORS, ami will fur.
nifh a TABLE for Parties, with the best provi
sions the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
lhorteft notice. From his long experience in
this line of business, he flatters himfelf he shall
be able to give fatisfa&ion t6 all who may pleafc
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29, 1794.
PHILADELPHIA:
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. j.
South Fourtk-Strcet.
uiw&ftf
m&thtf