E V E N I N G A D V E R T I S E' R.
[No. ni of Vol. V.J Saturday, May 5, 1794- [Whole No. 517.]
For Norfolk & Fredericksburgh,
little is ally, \
John Earl, j
A ttaonch food veflHj fail in a few I
darf. For freight or p fiage, apply to the -
ntsfter on board at Chefnut ftrcet wharf, or I
10 JOSEPH ANVHOXr & SOX.
March 31. A 1
For Amsterdam, J
The new faft-faiiing, copper- t
bottomed SHIP
ADRIAN A,
Itai K. Fitzpatrlck, Mister. .
BUI' ,Tof lryecaksa-leeflar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient fpeect. For freight or pufiage,
hiving- excellent accotpmodatiQUa, apply cn
board at Walnut fireet wharf, or to
Tins. JO".\■ KETL4ND. <
N. B. PafTengers will be landed in Eng- '
land if required. ,
March 6, 1794 d"
For Sale or Charter,
INDROMACHE,
(An American bottom)
—r~ John Moore, Majler.
li a stout good veffl l, about two years old,
burthen 232 ton r , has cv>ly mad' three voy-
and'iiiy bj e t to sea at 3 imaH ex
pence. She may be fe j u at Vine-fti'eet \fharfj
sji<4 the terms made k io,wn hv appl ration to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
March 31 ■ dt *
J ast Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatvick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut street wharfs viz.
'iV, IN in pipes,
VJ? A f lO bales Holland Duck,
v Ihrto Q: ,v>lw~ss, f£ .1
Holland Sheelt^g,
J-Mifper Berries,
Giu/s H/'are, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious J'*e>.
Sheathing Paper,
S-Orafss Iron, fqiiare and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Jlink and Oakum, Of. 'S c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jua.
JThe atave-menlioned Ship is for Sale—
ihould application be made within a few days ;
other wife she will take freight for Amjler
dam.
Match I, 1794. d—tf
To be Let,
IFor Merchants Comptirg Houses or Public
Ojjfceii
Two. brick 3 story Houses,
HAVING in each, wuh fire places
bdide garrets, fnoaie on the south westerly fid
ol Dock ftrctt, between Pear and Walnue
streets. Enquire of t
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
April 1 17. f f lutb&stf
Excellent CLARET,
In hngfheads and 111 cases of 50 bodies each.
A 'L SO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogiheads and quarter caflcs,
FOR SALE BY
' JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front llreet.
Jan. 2, 1704. dtf
Lately Publilhed.
SOLD BY
TBftmas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
TH£ Hjttory of New-Hamplhire, % from the
Discovery of the River Pifc«ttaqua—by Je
remiah Belknap, D. D. 3 Vols. Price in Boards,
4 I-2 Dollars.
The Forreftcr, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Clothier.*
Prce, 75 Cents.
A Dilcourfe, intended to commemorate the
Discovery ot America by Chrtliopher Colum
bus; delivered at the requeft'of the Hillorical
Society in MaiTachufetts, O&ober 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Thiid Centu»y»
nnce that memorable event. To which are
added, Four Diifertations, Couriered witlj the
fnbjeft—By the fame author. Price, po Cents.
March 17. * tuui&fgw
The following Certifi
eaic ot the funded three per Ctnt Slock ot ihe
D im flic Debt of the United Stales on
the books of the Tieafury of the laid United *
States, in ihe names of Donnald and Burton ot
London, merchants, arid figncd by Joleph
Nou.fe, Register of laid Trci.futy, to wit
No. 5476, dated 24th Augufl 1792 for
dollars and 5? cenis was tranlmitted from Lon
don in <he ih Ip. Peter, Paul Hiiffey, mailer,
bound for New York, and lias been loft. J
The Subfciiber intending 10 apply to the Txea.
fury of the Uniied-S'taies 'io have the fame re
newed, dclites all pcrfuns who are tntereiled in f
the said oerf'Hcate, to make their objections j
theieto, if any they have. ■
Frqncis Macy. <.
PhiUd. March 27. d6w 1
FOR SALE, \
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Mai ket-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery, ]
Designed to exhibvi in a new point ol view 1
its efFe&s on morals, indufiry, and the peace of
society. Some tads ancl calculations are offered <
to prove the labor of Jreemen to be much more i
productive than that ot [laves ; that countries arc I
rich, powerful and happy,'in proportion a* the ;
la'ooring people enjoy the fruits ot their v wn j
labor ; ami heiicc the n ceffdry poficlufion, that
slavery is impolitic as well <s unjufi.
Pxict 25 Cent«. dtf
February I^. '
"Fo R SALE,
BY THE SU&SCRIBER, «
Old Lisbon Wine of a !
■fupt riorquajity in pipes, imported 111 the llup
Wil nintton.
OLD SHERRY WINE of the fird quality
in quarter calks, imported in the brig- Nancy
capt. Gwin. from Cadiz
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RAISINS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIFFE WINES,in pipes
hlids. and quarier cask', imported in the ship
Thomas, capt- Skinner.
A few quarter calk.-' of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE. . :M
_3_J&Ziade*- — ..
Who ha? also, just arrived and for l'ale 1
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lijbon Salt.
A quantity, of empty BAGS for sale.
April 5. w&.sim.
Treasury Department,
Revenue Office, Aptil- 19, 1794*
NOTK E is hereby given, that proposals
will be received at the office of the Cominif
fioner of the Revenue until the sixth of May
next inclusively, for the supply of all R
tions, which may be required during the cur
rent year, at the city of Philadelphia, for
the recruiting service.
The rations to be furniftied are to consist
of the following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or 3 4 of a pound pork
Half a gill of brandy or whisky
One quart of fait,
Two quarts vinegar £ pfir 100 rations
Two pounds soap (
One pound candles J
April 21. mw&s2w
ADVERTISEMENT.
OF the money roubed from the mail near
Baltimore, by Dodlor Gant, 110 dollars were
afterwards sent by an unknown hand, to the
Poflmaftei' at Baltimore, who transmitted
the fame to the General Post Office. The fuf
ferers by that robbery are defn ed to state the
amount of their lofTes respectively, and trans
mit the fame, with the original letters of their
correfpopdents ('where recoversd) or other
evidence thereof to the General Poff Office,
before the firfl day of June next, immediate
ly after which a dividend will be made among
the claimants
TIMOTHT PICKERING,
Pojl Majler General.
Gen. Post Office, April 4, 1794 taw6w
Concluding Sales.
THE Sublcriber having entered tnto Co
partnership with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the bufin*fs of Sugar Refining, will dispose
of the
Remaining Stock on hand
CONSISTING OF
Silver, Plated, s & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By Whole/ale at Prime Cofl for Cajh.
John Dorfey,
No. 22, North 3d street.
April 12. tutb&s6w
JUST PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOBSON,
Uookftllcr, at the Stone Hou/e in Second Jireet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA,
OR A
Dictionary of Arts> Sciences, aud Mijcel
laneous Literature,
ON a plan entirely new ; by which the .dif
ferent fcences and arts are digested into the
form of diftindt treatises or systems. This
volume contains the articlrs, medals, medi
cine, metallurgy, metaphylics, methodists,
Mexjccr, microlcope, midwifry, and a great
variety oi' biographical and ar
ticles, ilfuftrated with oiueteen copperplates.
The tables of logarithms, &c. which
were deficient in the tenth volume, are sub
joined to this.
Eleven volumes of this work are now pub
liihed, and the Xllth is in fame forwardnel's.
On the firft of September, 1792, the price
of (übfeript ion wa« incrt-afed TtN dollars on
all 'etts not taken before that time. The fub
fcrijAion isftill ojien on the IV terms, and it
any copies remain by the firft of July nexr y the
price wHI bet vailed TEN dollars more, on
any copies which may be fubfer ibed for after
that period.
■ *As many of the fubferibers have taken
only two, three or four, &c. volumes, they are
eameftly requested to take up and pay for the
remaining volumes, as-it becomes difficult to
complete the setts, and the publiftier does not
hold"himfelf bouud to make up any setts after
firft day of July next.
April 22. m&th6w
The annual election
for
Directors and a Treasurer
OF THE
Library Company of Philadelphia,
WILL be held at the Library, in Fit'tj)
street, on Monday the fifth of May next, at
mice o'clock in the afternoon, when the trea
. J-??'-- ■--'■'■"si" 11 rn- nroiy-al nay*.
raents.
As there are several ihares on which fines
are due, the owners of them, or tfaeir repie
fentatives, are hereby notified, that they will
be forfeited, agreeably to the laws of the
Company, unless the said arrears are paid off
on the fifth day of TVlay, or within ten days
alter.
By Or<Jer of the Directors.
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN,
Secretary
April 7. m&w tsth May.
LAW OF THE UNION.
THIRD CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES,
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Monday
thefecond of December,one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-three.
An ACT limiting the time for prefentirtg
claims for deHroyed certificates of cer
tain descriptions.
Sect. 1. |)£ it enacted by the Senate and
' -I J Hxnife of Reprejintatives of the U
nited States of America, in Congress ajfemkled,
That all claims for the renewal of certificates
of the unfubferibed debt of the United States,
of the defcriptioiis , commonly called "Loan
Office Certificates," Or "Final Sestlements,"
[ which may have been accidentally destroyed,
(hall be forever barred and precluded frorjifct
tlement or allowance, unless the fame Ihall
be prcfented at the treasury, on or before, .the
firft day of June, in the year one thousand se
ven hundred and ninety-fivf.
Sect. 2. And be it further enacted That
no claim Ihall be allowed for the renewal of
loan office certificates destroyed before the
fourth day of March, one thousand seven hun
-1 dred and eighty nine, unless the deftru&ion
' of the fame was advertised, according to the
resolution of Congress, of the tenth day of
May, one thousand seven hundred and eighty;
or before that time was ftotififcd to the office
, from which the fame was issued, nor ihall
claims be allowed for the renewal of loan of
fice certificates destroyed on or after- the said
fourth day of March, one thousand feveti
hundred and eighty-nine, nor. of final settle
ment certificates destroyed at any time, un
less thft dellruftion of the fame was so far
made public, as to be known to at least two
credible witnefles, fooa after it happened, ans
Iha'l have been before the presentation of the
of the claiim, as herein alter provided, adver
tired for at least fix weeks fucceflively, in
some one of the newspapers of the ttate in
which the deitrudUon happened; and also,
in i'ojne one of the newspapers of the state in y
which the certificate ilTued, if that was ano
ther fiate ; the advertiftment or advertife
mcn|k in such cafe, exprefling with as much
precinon as pofiible, the number, date and
amount of the certificate alledged to have been
destroyed, and the name of the person to
whom the fame was issued, together with the
time when, the place where, and the means
by which the fame was destroyed.
Se<st. 3. And be it further enaftedf That
all claims for the renewal of dellroyed certi
ficates, of either of the descriptions aforefaid,
not precluded by this a<ft, shall be receivable,
with the evidence in support of the fame, by
the Auditor of the Treasury, until the firlt
day of June, one thousand feVfn hundred
and ninety-five, and fljall, by the accounting
officers of the Treasury be duly examined, and
if fatisfa&orily supported, the claimants fljall
be entitled to receive certificates of registered
debt, equal to the specie value of the loan of
fice or final settlement certificates so proved
to have been: destroyed.'
Frederick AugustusMuhlenbeilcs
Speaker of the House of
Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United States, and President
of the Senate.
Approved—April the twenty-firft 1794,
G°. WashingtonV
President of the United States.
Philadelphia.
ExtraS of a Letter from New-Jersey,
dated April 28, 1794.
1 have just returned from my Eastern
Tour where I arranged my business with
my friend. L to our mutual fatiffac
tion, arid tefl night had the pleasure of your
favor of the 27th. " The political ho
rizon has indeed cleared up," and the
storm which seemed to gather so fa ft a
round is happly dispelled. I partake in
the general fatiffaftion which the firm and
temperate conduct of the Executive has
given. With the exception of one or two t
grumblers—l found the appointment of a
special Envoy universally agreeable. It
breathes the cool determination which the
best interests of our country require, and
which is very much in unison with the
temper of the people I have just left.—
The appointment offo eminent a chara&er
as Mr. Jay, whose talents are so well
known and refpeftcd in Europe, is conG
dered as giving energy to the measure,
and will impress the British Cotirt with
the necessity of paying immediate atten
tion toademand so folrtinly made. A sin
cere desire to avoid the horrible mifchrefs
of war, and a determination to insist ort
and enforce every important right, is really
the true line of eondu& for every Govern,
ment. This seems the prevailing disposi
tion where I have been ; and that cool and
manly republicanism which lately I have
met with, forms a fine contrast to that
frothy patriotifrrl which evaporates : in rioife
and declamation and which is too common
among some «f our friends.
lam glad to find that the refohe-mania
begins to abate in Congress. Our mem
bers appear to be as deeply infe&ed with
it as uhy. To b ! e the author of a resolution
has of latebeen avery prevailing ambition,
which has given birth to such a variety of
motions—amendments—postponements—
&c. tliat one is pUzzled to comprehend
them. We hear of Mr. B's motion, Mr.
C's motion, Mr. D's motion, aud (0 on
through half the alphabet: and yet so un
lick'd have these things been, that they
may well be compared to " half formed in
fe&s on the banks of the Nile." This rapid
production and changeable variety of mo
tions, may, however I ftippofe be more
justly ascribed to that warm refeptment,
which every American felt on the news
of the Brftifh spoliations ; but public coun
cils are not the places for resentment, un
tempered by prudence.
1 * /O
CONGRESS.
liaujc of RjprcfenUitivct April 2J.
Tuelday, April 29;
Afttr re-'Sirg Pime private petitions,
tbe hoyfe refurned the confideiation of
.tlic report fibin the committee upon the
contested Cic£tio. 1 of Mr. Francis Preston,
■from" theftate of Virginia.
Mr. Tiigge, and Mr. Preston spoke
«aches them for some time to the merits
of the cafe.
Mr. Scott then rose—he declared that
of all the qneftions which had ever come
before that holife, the present was to him
the moil wonderful. To tell us, that an
elfftion had been overruled by a party of
soldiers, was indeed extraordinary. Up
on such an outrage, it was inoil astonish
ing that the whole country did not rife as
One mail to resent and punifl) it. But for
his own part he favy the business in an op
posite point of view—he could not for his
ioul difeover the smallest pretence to set
aside the election of Mr. Piefton; nor
could he comprehend or conceive upon
what ground so strange a notion had
been darted. As for Captain Prcfton,
brother to the fitting member, whose con
dudt had been so loudly excepted against,
Mr. Scott said that his behavior at the
election was that of a sage. Instead of
the fire of youth, he had discovered all
the moderation that could have been ex
. peftedfrotn the charafler of a philefopher 1 .
As to the introdu&ion of soldiers at the
• . election, he saw no harm in it. They
had a right to be there, for they weie
, equally entitled with other American ci
tizens to give their votes in the choice of
a representative. The quarrel that suc
ceeded was accidental; and did not aflfedt
the question before the House. Mr. Scott
was ready, and had long been so, to give
his voice for dismissing the petition of Mr,
Trigge. He had not the smallest (hadow
of doubt upon the matter.
Mr. Macon was of the fame opinion.
It had been asserted that in this cafe, the
laws of Virginia had been violated. He
would be glad to know what law.
Mr. W. Smith considered it as a very
clear point that the election was not a fair
one; because it was evident that the peti
tioner had not enjoyed an equally fair
chance, as the fitting nitmbpf. Tt .was
true that some fa£ts in the petition had
not been completely substantiated, but ma
ny had. The House had been told that
hearsay testimony was unworthy of atten
tion, but he wished to remind them, that
they were not like.a court of law, reftrift
' ed to proceed upon a regular proof, and
not to go beyond the letter of it—They
were entitled to hear and weigh every thing
advanced, and to form their opinion from
the general convidkion arising upon the
whole of the circumttances. Some fads
of the most unwarrantable kind had come
out. Three of Captain Preston's soldiers
guarded the dooT of the court-house, where
the election was held. When a person,
since examined as an evidence, wanted to
- go in, they flopped him with this questi
on, " are you to vote for Trigge ?" Up
on answering yes, they replied—" By
Jesus then you (hall notand though he
was fifty-eight years of age, two of them
laid holdof him and cast him to the ground:
when he got up again he went off. Mr.
Smith said that there was a clear collusion
between Captain Preston and the soldiery.
Here Mr. Preston interrupted him by de
claring that there was no such thing in the
evidence—Mr. Smith affirmed that there
was.
The was then dire&ed to read
part of the examination of the witnesses
the particulars above stated appeared in
the proof, and Mr. Smith infifte<} that
they contained a demoilftration of colfu
five measures between the fitting member,
his brother Captain Preston and the mili.
tary. It was objected to Mr. Smith, on
the part of the soldiers, that they had on
ly said they could, not that they would
knock down Mr. Trigge's voter. But
Mr. Smith considered this critical distinc
tion as minute and trifling f rom the lips of
a soldier in liquor. He did not unde r stand
Jts accuracy, and he imagined that his own
nerves must have been as much affeded by
the could as by. the mould. Many of the
country people Had expressed much difla
tisfa£hon with the soldiers. It was prov
ed when the fray began, Captain
jetton had wished to have twenty of his
loldiers there, and this hint was no sooner
given, than a person ran off and immedi
atcly returned with a party of them
i Mr. Shcrbourne was for supporting the
fitting member. He wijhea that tn£ time
of the House might not be fquaridercd in
ait uftlefs display of elorjuence ; it was, to
be fiire, very agreeable to speaker him
felf, bat at the fame time very fuperfluous
in regard to his audience.
The clerk was again ordered to read
some passages in the proof, as far as they
rdpeftet! the behavior of Capt. Preftdn.
Mr. W. Smith then rose a second time.
As a member of the committee that had
been ehofen upon this buiinefs, he was
1 entitled to vindicate their report, of which
Ihe read some extratis very unfavorable 4o
the behavior oi the soldiers. Mr. Smith
observed that Mr. Fretton, in his defence
1 had been extremely profufe of his censure
on the committee, for doing what they
couftdered to be their duty. Mr. Smith,
referring to the observations of Mr. Sher
bourne, said that he was perfectly in order
1 for defending the report of the committee,
because it was juftified by the facts. Tho'
the quarrel between the soldiers and the
1 country people did not happen till after
the poll, yet Hill it arose from bad blood
before,the poll began, and tlterefore a re
ference to it was firiftly in order. Mr.
Smith said that it wa9 no part of his in
-1 tention to injure the character of Captain
Preston, who, when the tumult began,
took off ljis sword, and gave it to some
person to held. For this moderation,
Capt. Preston deserved credit. But still
Mr. Smith considered himfelf as juftified
in oppoling the election, since it was not
conducted with that firmnefs, that regula
rity, and that equality of chances, requi
site upon republican principles.
He read a quotation from Blackftone,
as to elections, "Violent interposition"
fays that writer " what is it, but to cut
government up by the roots,and poison the
fountain of public security?" He dwelt,
at some length, on this idea, and on the
peculiar impropriety of military interposi
tion, he said that upon the whole, Mr,
Preston had only a majority of ten votes,
and when the circumstance of fixfy or se
venty soldiers driving off the voters of Mr.
Ttigge was opposed to such a narrow ma- '
jori/y, could any body call this tranfaftion
legal? (At the words ten "votes, Mr. Smith
was twice interrupted, firft by Mr. Mac on,
and next by Mr. Smith of Maryland, but
he perfillcd in his assertion.) He had flat
_ ~prnm»l»n - » »■ » - —
Shall the Houft fuffer an officer, the bro
ther of a candidate, to seize the door of
a court-house, and turn away the voters
of his brother ? It had been said that it
was customary, in that part of the coun
try for a candidate to collect his friends,
and block up doors, but surely it was a
very improper cullom. The fitting mem
ber had said that if his brother made any
wrong step, he should have been prosecut
ed in a court of law. Mr. Smith did not
mean to fay that Captain Preston had com
mitted any offence worthy of that, he did
not perhaps imagine that he was doing any
wrong at all. It had been asked, was it
poflible that sixty or seventy unarmed sol
diers could overawe two or three hundred
people ? He thought it possible.
Mr. S. Smith of Maryland defended
Mr. Preston. He said that in foinung
an impartial judgment npon this question,
various circumstances mud be taken into
consideration, besides the facts in evidence
before the house. In Elections of East
ern States, the citizens met in small bodies;
and they conducted the business with that
order-and decency which became the true
Republican chara&er. But it was the
miffortune of Southern States, that their
citizens assembled in large bodies the
ele&ors of a county meet all together
before the fheriff, and give their votes
at the fame time. Hence it appears, as
the matter was described by Mr. S. Smith
that an election in the Southeru States is
often productive of very great mif
-5 , He , fald that was somewhat
Vi?o • hear,n g another member (Mr
W. Smith) express so much refentmtnt
at an eleSwn not. The gentleman had
access to the history of a certain eUaion,
where the very chancellor of a court of
jnllice, bred a riot in his own court, for
the express purpose of serving his party.
Much had been said about the enormity
ot knocking down a juftice«f the peace :
and m the report the affair was stated as
«f the magistrate had been at the court
„°e -„ V" J"® °® c,al opacity » Now
Sir, said Mr. Smith, «in this part of
>t the report is not fair. The justice
„° f P eace " as ""t there in his official ca
« WaS there drunk Sir, and ,
he gave the firft blow Sit, to the man
; " who knocked him down." Mr. Smith
had by the firft accounts of this election,
been very much prejudiced against the
ele&ion of the fitting member. But
when' lie came to examine closely into
the bulinefs, he declared that he had nev
er known an election in the southern states
where there was so little mifchief. He
was sorry, for the honor of his part of
the country, to give this account of it to
the eastern members, but in point of com
[ mon justice to Mr. Preston, they ought
i be informed that a southern election
i was quite a different fort of tranfa&ion
from one of theirs. In the evidehce be
i fore the house, it had been ftatcd that
one person had been seen at the court
: house with a club under his coat. " But
" fir," said Mr. Smith, " 1 have known
"Jive hundred voters aflembled, to have
" clubs under their coats. So that if
" such a circumllance is to set aside an
" eledtion, the committee may begin by
" dissolving mirre. If the committee are
" to break up every ele&ion, where per
" sons were seen drunk, they will have a
" great deal of work upon hand Sir."—
In what way were elections for southern
members carried on ? A man of influence
came to the place of election at the head
of two or three hundred of his friends ;
and to be sure they would not, if they
I could help it, fuffer any body on the o
ther fide to give a vote, as long as they
were there. It was certainly a very bad
cuflom, and must veiy much surprise an
eastern member, but it was the custom,
and perfe&ly known to be so, and there
fore it was very injurious to hold up the
conduct of Captain Preston, as a pretence
for dissolving the elcftion. The beha
viour of that young gentleman, when in
sulted, bad been exemplary. in the
midst of a riotous mob, he gave away
his sword, that he might do no mifchief
in that way. This was a great instance
of moderation and presence of mind.
The aspersions cast upon the chara&er
of this officer, Mi-. Smith regarded as
highly unjust and they might if not pro
perly taken notice of, be extremely inju
rious to his hopes of advancing in the
service. Captain Preston had gone to
the court-house as a private citizen, and
he had a rig-lit to be there. A? to the
menace of the soldiers that they could
knock down one of Col. Trigge's voters,
■tKift wss vtfn yc" IJT.llin fiuiif tii'fi-ft l °g tliat
they would do it. Were a man to have
come up to Mr. Smith in the street and
, fay, " I will knock you down fir," Mr. I
Smith would be for striking that man ;
but were he only to fay, " I can knock
" you down fir," the expression would be
quite different. But as to the affray that
fell out, after the election was over, Mr.
Smith asserted, that if the soldiers had
killed all the country people, or the coun
try people had killed all the soldiers, this
had nothing to do with the merits of the
election itfelf. And as to tins quariel,
few young men had the temper of this
officer (Capt. Preston) in ordering off
his soldiers ; so that instead of the cen
sure of that house, he deserved their
praise. At his age, Mr. Smith would
not have ordered his men off; and as to
the censure on the military inserted in the
report, he did not agree with it. It
would be a very fine reason to be sure, to
vacate a feat in that house, because one
of the electors had been seen with a club
*under his coat! Mr. Smith was sorry to 1
gire such a dtfeription to the Eastern
members, of the manners of his country;
but he did so, that he might hinder them
from being hurt, at the facts brought for
ward in the evidence. He concluded by
reminding those members, that it would
be ridiculous to measure one thing by a
nother which was perfedly opposite ; or to
judge of a Southern by the enftoms of
an Eastern ele&ion. *
Mr. Clark said that three days had now
been spent upon this business. Lorn
Jpceches did not alter the way in which
members were to give their -votes, and they
were therefore nothing but a loss of time
—he wished for the question.
Mr Macon said that there was no law
to hinder the militia from attending elec
tion as well as any body else.
member fwor " « on
M r.day) spoke for a few minutes. He
aw no reason why another member (Mr.
hurt b™tK °r - C i
R inr p f C,rcUmftance °f a n Election
S S ?r' g l ° the f P«ch of Mr.
S. Smith he observed that there was a riot
at the gentleman's own election and in his
worfe - th - Riot
Slll 4 Church—the-not was raised by
I
/
i a magiilratc, who with hi's own hand
, dragged one of the oppolite party cut 0 c
e the Church. " And if you want ev!
t dence of all th.s, faiO Mr. Gillon, I
J myfelf, was present, and, can be aZ ,
- « nets." Mr Gillon- fcw
s - reason Why there (hould be Aich a no ;r°
} Ut thl ' 3 el^' on Particular, when o!
f thers were jult as bad or a rrcat
5 7, rfe - member (Mr. P r f ftun)
• duly qualified to bold his feat, and M
t Gillon hoped that he would holdTt
1 ————
™ From the General MvcrtiCer.
t CIVIC FESTIVAL.
j aasasvr'K'sgfc
Ilrael, about three miles from town i > j"
; £" heui:ru ~ fcrf, ~"»Sbt
» deprived the general meeting „f anuXrof
-
= about 800 citizens, among whom the°Gover^
- or and leveral olucers of the and Fede-
I 8° v u e ™ ments attend «», alibied to St
; brate thole events which have in .
r conducetd to consolidate French liberTvS
. guarantee our independence. The MiV./f
r and other officers of the French
I the citizens with their company
The flags of the filter rep.blx, Lrled
' and ornamented the feat of festivity, At two
, the company partook of a plain yet pl tßtifu ,
repast, after wVich the following toasts were
. drank, accompanied by universal marks of
, I approbation.
L I h , e Re P llbllc of one and indi
visible—May her triumphs multiply until
every day in the year be rendered a festi
val in the calender of Liberty, and a .'aft In
I the calender of courts.
11. The people of the United States—May
each revolving year increale their detec
tion of every species of tyranny and th»:r
I vigilance to secure the glorious inheritance
acquired by their Revolution.
111. The Alliance between the filler Repub-
I lies of the United States and France— May
I their un;on be as incorporate as light and
I heat and their friendlhip as lasting as t ; me.
IV. The Mountain—May tyranny be chaia-
I ed at its foot, and may the light of Libtr
t) - rem its fuinmit cheer aud illuminate
I the whole world.
IV. The Republic of Genca—May eveA
j nation that values its
I like tier tiie ft "citations andfefift tlie
er of tyrants combined for the deilrueiie.n
I of freedom and equality.
VI. The great family of Mankind -Mav
I the diftiniStion of nation and of langua' e
I ■be loft in the afTociation of freedom and
of friendlhip, till the inhabitants of the
I various fedhons of the globe lhail be dif
diftmguilhed only by their virtues and their
talents.
j VII. The Constitution of the United States
—May its form and spirit be the ipvaria-
I ble guide of all who administer it—may
its authority never be proflituted for tin
purposes of party nor its departments ille
gally blended for the purposes of intrigue.
V , The men of th e People—the mmo
j rity the Senate—and the majority of
the House of Representatives of the Uni
ted States—May they on future, as on
I past occasions, have wisdom to dtfeover
and fortitude to refill every attack upon
, I Constitution and rights of their.poun
try, while they enjoy for their service*
the patriot's true reward, the love and
i I confidence of their fellow citizens.
IX. A Revolutionary Tribunal in Great
Britain May it give lesions of Liberty to
, I her King, examples of justice to her Mi
ni ftry, and Honeiiy to her corrupt Legit*
I lature.
X. The Armies of the French Republic-
May they be invincible and unihaken till
j by their glorious efforts Liberty and Peace,
I exalted in the lame Triumphal Car, ihall
I be drawn to the temple of Janus by the
humbled tyrants who have dared to molest
I them.
I XI. The extin<s\ion of Monarchy—May
j the next generation know kings only by
I the page of history, and wonder that fuct
I monsters were ever permitted to exist.
I XII. Reason, May it lucccfsfully countera<ft
I the effe<hs of executive influence,
I expose the insidious arts of judicial so-
I phiftrV, and preserve inviolate the purity
I of legiflati<3n.
I XIII. Know ledge—May every citizen be
I so learned as to know his rights, and lo
I brave as to aflert them.
I XIV. The fair daughters of America and
I France'—May they ever poflijfs virtue to
j attradl merit and sense to reward it.
I 1 he Democratic and Republican
cieties of the United States—May they
I preserve and difleminate tfceir principles,
undaunted by the frowns of power —un-
I contaminated by the luxury of arillocracy,
I Rights of Man fliall become the
I law of every land, and their se
parate fraternities be absorbed in one great
I democratic society comprehending the hu
man race. ' |
'• ' ivatUNTEER-f?.
May every free nation corifidcr a p»blic
eebt is a pubiir ctirje, and may the man who
voulu aC'ert a contrary opinion be caßLiidcrea
a» ai> enemy to his country.
11. The unfortunate vidtinls of Britilh ty
ranny—the members of the Popular Con men
tion of Scotland—May their fate recoil upon
their persecutors, and may ■ those who hive
L ught an afvlu r n in this country find in eve
ry Ana?'lean a bfother and a friend.
i, t. The dispersed friends of Liberty
throjghout the u o' ld —May France be <ne
rallying wht -e they may colled} their
fc.ittered forees, arid wfi'enec jhey may sally
forth to the ilcflruelioh of all the tyrants of
the earth.
By the Minister of the French Republic.
May the principles Oi reason be universal
as tlu y are eternal.
By the Governor of Pennsylvania,
Pe ace on the'f own terms to the French
Republic.
Tne Prefidems an 1 Vice Presidents of the
filler i'ocieties prelifiei at the feaft, the pre
parations for which do the honor to
the managers. »
After dinner the citizens formed a double
line in a lane which led to the place cf enter
tafnnsenf, and the Prelidtnt of the Demo
cratic Society gave tlie fraternal embrace to
the minifier of the French Republic, amid
tbfc acclamations and most animated joy of
all the company.
The citizens then, fomtf time being spent
in the eftyfions of mirth, frifndfhip, and
good humonr, accompanied the Minister to
town, in a regular order of mar;h,headed by
music and the colours of the Republics and
sccompanied by one of the companies of vo
lunteer infantry of tbis city.
1 They partook of some refrefhments pro
vided in the Minister's garden and preserving
the.- line of march thro' part of the city,dil
p- -r:d with perfedl good humour and tran
quility before the State House.
"I he pro visions which remained after the
repast were diftrabuted, agreeably to order,
'asa jug the prisoners conlined in the goal of
t'lit city.
Foreign Intelligence.
MADRID, January 25.
The cares of government being no long
er divided between Toulon and the Py
renees, the operations in the latter will be
puifued With vigor, for which purpose the
army will be re-inforced with 7000 infan
try and JOOO cavalry.
\ BRUSSELS, February 28.
Among tlie reports of the day it isfaid,
that therear* accounts from France, dating
that the column <jf republicans which was
sent polt from Greville to Brest, was ftop
pe.J«n their way, by a paity aflembled in j
Eritk Hiy, and cut to p'eces. The fame
letters slate Paris to be in an alarming fer
ment, that the people, tired with the per
petual 'a! IV accounts of the destruction of
La Vendee, cry Treason, and insult the
members of the Convention 111 the Itreets.
FLORENCE, February 1.
The Italians begin to be apprehensive
that the French may pay them a viiit, and
the Grand Duke of Tufcany, who was
induced by us to the measure of fending
away their Minister, seems now pretty
firmly determined not to give the French
asy farther reason to complain of him.
A small, fleet of transports arrived a few
days ago at Leghorn, from England,
with troops aboard, that had been intend
ed, for Toulon and, among them were
about 1 oohorfes. The hoi fes had fuffer
ed much from a long voyage, and it was
abfdutely neceflary to get them on (here,
forwh;cb purpose application was made to
this government, but a positive refufa! was
given to their being landed, and fourteen,
I understand, are dead f.nce they have
been in the harbor of Leghorn.
1 •>
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Thursday, February ij.
The convention were informed that 38
millions of aflignats would be burnt this da'v 3
ROYALISTS.—REPUBLICANS'. i
The following letter was read from the
representative. of the people with the army
of the Weft to the co remittee of public fafety
" Saumur 21 Pluvoife, 9th February.
"We did not fuppcfe, citizens colleagues,
that we Ihould have been obliged to write to
you concerning the execrable La Vendee.
We had conceived that the victorious army
traversing for the second time this unhappy
country, would have been only reduced to
the neceflity of immolating to the manes of
our brethren some vagabond hordes, and that
the country would have been afterwards
wholly 111 the power of the republic.
" Things, however, have changed their
appearance, without, however, wearing a
menacing afpedl. Some of our columns have
IV| becn defeated by the royalists, w ho are about
4000 strong. We hasten to inform you of
thii c'rrumftance, because fre are fjre that
the diikffeifted will endeavor to alarra the
public mind, by magnifying t'he danger.
ViSory, however, will soon attend Us, and
our biave republicans will iaflidt a lign_l
vengeance on these rebellious royalists."
March 7.
n A great number of rebels have been ar
e rested at Havre-de-Giace, and conducted
to Dieppe. Among those lately taken
up at Paris, are, the famous Chapelier,
[ exconllituent; St. Georgd, colonel of a
regiment of Creoles ; M'adame de la Rey
, mere 4 Madame de Choifenl; the wife of
Monaco ; Francois arid Charles de Lo
menil, and 13 priests from Chantilly.
The total number of prifonersis 9100.
I The military commission at Bourdeaux,
has sentenced to the guillotine the two ex
advosates, Buroeip aud Bondin, and the
two ex counfcllors of the parliament;
1 D'Ofeighac and D'Anglade.
We learn from Perpignan, the Colonel
of the regiment of Noailles has been guil
-1 lotined in the mldft of the camp, because
in his box were found croflfes of St. Louis,
cockades, and a flag with thefieur.de-lys :
' in dying, he cried out, vtve le Rot! Ge
, neial La Fitte has died in prison ; Gene
ral Refniel, commandant of the place is
dea 1; General Latcvrade has been carried
off frorh the army, and that the Spaniards
aflemble from all parts.
A lettsr from L'ifle de France, dated
October IJ, (fates, that fifteen privateers
I belonging to that island make prizes con
. tinually, among which are a Dutch Cor
vette, a Dutch Eaft-Indiaman, pierced
for 50 guns, with ingots of gold, coffee,
groceries, See. valued at fix millions; an
Englifli ship of 24guns, having on board
59 sacks of silver, iequins and ingots, a
chelt of diamonds, a sack of jewels, &c.
that the forces of the Englilh in that
quarter conn ft in only one frigate and two
lhips of the company.
LONDON, March 4.
Allied Force expeSed to take the field, in
the Spring, againjl Franct.
England to furnilh )
by sea and land, 3 100,000
Spain, ditto. 50,000
Hanover, ditto. 25,000
Empire and German princes, 120,000
Pruflia, 100,000
Emperor, Ho,ooo
20,000
Kuflia, sea and land, 60,000
Armed peasants, 150,000
Royalists, ready when )
opportunity offers, 3 150,000
Dutch, sea and land, 30,000
Portuguese, ditto. 30j000
Neapolitans and king >
of Sai dinia, 5 40,000
Total, 1,000,000
HOUSE of COMMONS.
Friday, February 21.
Mr. Grey said, that, as he meant Ihortly
to bring forward a motion relative to the
conduct of government towards neutral pow
ers, he wished to know whether the right
honorable gentleman opposite, would have
any objeaion to the produflicn of fueh pa
pers as related to those powers. He (hould
move for all the papers that palled between
our ministers and the governments of Flo
rence, Cjenoa,Denmark, Sweden and Ame
rica i and for copies of the orders given to
the commanders of veflels to seize on the
Ihips belonging to those powers.
Mr. Pitt said, he would have no objedlion
to lay the last mentioned papers before the '
house ; but as to the others, he Ihould firft
take time to consider of them.
PORTSMOUTH, February 19. !
1 his evening arrived a frigate from the
Downs with 300 fail of lhips and Veflels un- ]
der her convoy, among which are 11 fail of
outward bound Eaft-Indiamen.
This morning failed rear-admiral Mac- j
bridge, with the following (hips under his t
command, on a cruise off Cherbourg, &c
Ships. Guns. Commanders.
invincible, 74 C Rear admiral M'Bride \
o, r C Hon. T. Parkinfon. ,
Sheernefs, 44 Captain Fairfax.
rei ent, 36 SiF J. Saumarez. t
Arethufa, 36 SirE.Pellew.
l l T' Sir J.B.Warren.
U l n Halkett - f
With two other sloops of war.
ARMED JUDGES. 1
To tie Printer of the St. James's Chronicle. ]
oIK, t
IN your paper you inform us, that I
every Judge in the Revolutionary Tribu
nal ot 1- ranee is armed on the Bench with r
a brace o loaded pistols in his girdle, and a
a hanger byh.si.de. I take leave to ob- b
IWfh V i was 3 time when the a
Lnghft, j ud g tho ht k neccff
protest themselves in the fame manner
S.r John W.ddon, one of the Judges in a
Queen Mary the First's reign, who is re- «
membered for being the firft who rode to
Weft'minftejvHaU on htrjfebaet (mules on
[ ly being used previous to that period) and
I his fellow juitiees; were aimed, and the
; counsel pleaded at the bar of the Courts
of justice in Armour, on account of Wy
att's rebellion and infurreftion ; nor did
the Lord Chief Justice Jeffries think him
i felf fafe without the fame precaution,
, when he went in to the Weft of England
for the trial of those who joined the un
fortunate Duke of Monmouth, in the
■ days of King James the Second.4-The
French we know, despise precedent? but
some of their friends here may be pleased
with, the above ; which is much at their
, service to make the best use of they can-
I am, Sir, your's Set.
R. J.
[ UNITED STATES.
SALEM, April 7.'
The town of Salem lias authorised its
Selectmen to execute a quit claim deed, in
favor of the United States, of the old
fort, and fnch other land as
shaM be neceflary in erefiing fortifications
for the defence of the port.
'We hear, that the Lieut. Col. Com
mandant of the Salem regiment has en
joined on the officers to admit of no excuse
whatever from the soldiers for a deficiency
in the articles of equipment, and to 6b
ferve a ftriit discipline in every refpeft
the piefent alarming period requiring that
the militia should be prepared for any
emergency.
BOSTON, April 24.
The Chamber of Commerce at their
annual meeting for the choice of officers,
elected the following gentlemen for the
year ensuing:
rfon. Thomas RufTell, Esq. President.
Stephen Higginfon, Esq. fi'rft Vice-
Ptefident.
John Coffin Jones, Esq. Vice-Piefident.
Mr. Henry Prentifs, Secretary.
their standing committee for
the month of April, were eledted
Samuel Salisbury, David Greene, Joseph
RufTell, jun. Theodore Lyman, JefTe Put
nam.
We hear that a duel was fought yester
day, in or near this town, between Mr.
J. Murray, of Newbury-Port, and Mr.
N. Frazier of this town, in which the for
mer was wounded in the thigh, and the
latter in the breast.
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 3.
The following extraH contains a more intelli
gibh account 6J the position of the Allied
Armies in Flanders, than has appeared.—
From the Levden Gazett£, of March 7
ExtraS of a Utter from Brujfels, dated
March 3.
THE Conventional army, commanded
by general Pichegru, has made a general
movement in advance, wich leads us to
suppose that the enemy will commence the
campaign, by attacking us in our polls.
The towns of weft Flanders,
contibue Rot only to be menaced by Gene
ral Van Damme, who has under his com
mand, a body of 14 or 15 thousand men,
but they also fear an attack by sea, at the
fame time that they are on the land fide.
We learn that they are diligently occupied
at Dunkirk in equipping an armament of
small veflels, such as gun boats, floating bat
teries &c. destined for this enterprize—the
works are carried on with great diligence at
Fumes and Nieuport, to put those places in
such a pasture of defence as to defeat the
project of the French. In prosecuting what
they have for a long time had in view,
they daily renew their incursions into the
province of Luxembourg, horn whence they
carry off all the cattle and provisions which
fall into their hands. The 13d of last month
they surrounded and took pofieffion of an
Austrian port of 20 men, in the village of
Frifanges, which they afterwards pillaged.
The 26th, they entered in great numbers
the valley of Virion, from whence they took
a great number of waggons loaded with
grain and other commodities.
Col. Mack after having made a gene
ral survey of all the posts occupied by the
allied troops, from the sea to Luxem
bourg, returned to Valenciennes, where
after his arrival, there was another coun
cil of war held between the Generals.
The following is the position of the
armies which cover the frontiers—The
center of the grand Austrian army com-
/// >
manded by Prince Saxe Cobourg covers
Valenciennes, Conde and §>uefnoy. The
tight under the orders of Count Clairfayt
covers Tournny, Orchies and Marchiennes
—while the left under Prince Hohenlohr,
covers Mons tint] Chorltroi. A cordon of
troops commanded by Generals Latour
and Beaulieu, extends from the borders of
the Meufe to Luxembourg.
In Weft Flanders, the Englifli army
occupies Courtray, Wevelghem and Menin,
and the Hanoverians, Fumes and Nieuport
A corps of ten thousand men is beyond
this divifian, in cantonments at the ex
tremes of the frontiers.
The government is at this moment en
gaged in. making arrangements with each
of the Belgic provinces to raise a body of
ten thousand men, intended to com
pleat the Walloon regiments—The inlift
ments we hear are to be only during the
war—Brabant is to furnirti three thousand
—Flanders four thousand, and the other
three thousand will be raised by the Pro
vinces, in proportion to their population
—The hereditary prince of Orange, and
the princess his wife, arrived here the day
before yesterday—The fame day a body
of Dutch troops arrived here.
The celebrated Dr. Priestly is about to re
move to this country. His opinions have
given offence to the friends of monarchy in
England.
Extra# of a letter from England, dated Feb.
*7j i 794 j received by the George Barclay.
We afliired England has no concern in
the Algerine business, and is mull sincerely
disposed to cultivate the frieridihip of Ame
rica."
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Snow Baltimore, Banfon, Liverpool
Brig Yorick, M'Allifter, Antigua
Sch r Swift, 1 lromas, Virginia
Sally, Skinner, New-London
Sloop Harmony, Elwood, Virginia
CLEARED.
Brig Floriday, Farrada, Savannah
Schr. Rebecca,. Hill, Snowhill
Fowler, , Camden
Sloop Balloon, Marshall New-York
Dolphin, Tunnel!
Nancy, Denike, Alexandria
Polly, Chapman,' Boftoij
Rebecca, Snowhill
Union, Sackett, New-York
The snow Baltimore failed from Liver
| pool the 7th of March, with the ftiip Po
mona, Buchanan, and Sarah,
for Philadelphia. Left at Liverpool, fliip
Atlantic, Swaine, for Philadelphia, and
> Clements, for Bolton, to fail in 3
days.
A Ship, Snow, and Brig, were seen
yesterday morning, about half way tip tjje
i bay.
POST OFFICE,
_ Phrlad. May 3d, 1994.
I Letters for England will be received at
this office until Thursday the Bth May, at
12 o'clock noon.
N. B. The inland postage to New-York
I must be paid.
To the Ele&Ors of the city and
county of Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
This being the last year of the prtfcrft
Stierilf's time in office. I take the l ber
ty to offer myfclf a Candidate, and solicit
your votes and interests in my favor, to plare
me on the return at the next general Election
as his successor for said office; in doin K which'
you will confer an obligation that will be'
gratefully remembered, by
Your moll obedient,
and luimble servant,
jOHN BAKER.
M *y 3- estfc
NEW THEATRE,
BY DESIRE.
THIS EVENING,
May 3.
Will be performed,,
A COMEDY, called
The Dramatist,
O R,
Stop him who Can!
To which will be added, ,
A COMIC OPERA, written by the Author
of the Poor Soldier, called
Peeping Tom of Coventry.
To conclude with the Federal March.
Boxes, one dollar—PlTt, three quarters
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.*,
The emendations and additions v/Mcb are
made in work,are inntfnieiable,and occu.i
in every page, 'J'iie public are referred to '
the pieface lor a flight iketch of a lew of
tueuk.
Tire publsfher takes the present opportu- fa
nity of' returning his mOst fricere ihaoks to
tho'e reflet iblc characters who hayfc favored nt
□int. with documents for improving the maps A*
of leyeVal of the Itatcs* He requests a donti
nuance.as theix kindness; and hope r > that such
pubjie l'piritcd citizens, as are pofTeiiVd ol ii
in lardoturrteiits, wrii favor him with their
iiliftance in perfecting his undertaking.
The .ejtt aordmary encouragement wit! f<j
which she has beert favored, has excited
in hFs breast the warrilelt fentimenuof grati- \y
rude—Tcotiments which time will not etface. t j,
Me pledges himfeit to the citizens of the
United tofpnre neither pains nor e:c t |.
penfc to reiuter the prrfeiit edition of Guthrie's ft
Geogra hy improved, deserving of their pa- f f
f waftf si,
A New Novel.
To the LADIEiS of Philadelphia. £.
This Day is Published by
MATxIEW CAREY,
118, Market flreet* ,f
"Price, bound, of a dollar, sewed a i
in n arble paper, halt a dollar, Bl
Charlotte, a tale of Truth, a b '
, IN TWO VOLUMES.
By Mrs. RO vV'iON, ol' the New Theatre, <j
Phladelphia, Author ol Victoria, the In
quifitui, the Fille de Chambre, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given B
* the following charaHer.
IT may be a Tale ol' Truth, lor it is not ''
unnatural, ami if it a talc ol' real diltrefs.— 3
Charlotte, by the artifice of a ttachei, recom u
mended to a fichool, from humanity rather V>
than a conviQion of her integrity, or the re.
gularity of her former condufl, » enticed
from her goven ef, and accompanies a voung (
officer to America—l he marfuge ceremo
ny, if not forgotten, is postponed, ai d (Jhar-
lotte dies a martyr to the inconstancy of her
over, and treachery ot his fr'tnd —The situ-
tions are artl<eis and atfefting—i'.e defcrip
ations natural and pathetic; »e ihntild fee)
tor Charlotte if fu< li a penon e.ver t-Jtifted,
who for one er or'fcarc.ly, pe haps, deferved
fo feve e a punilh.nent. If it is a fiction,
poetic j.uftice is not, we think, pi operly dil t '
tributed
Said Carey has jujl published, I
A 2 sheet map of Kentucky
compiled by Etihu B-irker, price oi:e dollar 11
and t .vo thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France, !
Germany, Spa n,ltaly, the Onited Provinces,
the Netherlands, and the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars
Map Ne'vv Jersey—Hals a dollar.
Map of' Vtrmont, Connecticut, Delaware,
Georgia Price three eighths of s> dollar
each. *
April 39. tuth&s3*v
Just Irtiported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Craudon, from
St. Petersburg in RulTia, 1
And now landing at South-flreet Wharf, viz.
Hemp,;'
bar iron,
RUSSIA SHEETING, i
RAVEN'S DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. li', Walrmt-flreet.
March 4,1794- diw^tawtf
Just Published,
I n one handsome volume, iimo. Price 5s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Second
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE .y
Natural Equality of Men y
On the Rights that refi(lt tj"om it, and, on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Corrected and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
£>. D.
ProfelTor of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
ol Nature, and of Ecclesiastical Hiftoi y ;
andMinifter of the Englilh Cliutch at U
trechti
Aliquirt lemper ad communem utilitatem af
fercoduni. CICsRO. I
The Firjl American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality, if right
ly understood, is the only Uafij.on which
universal justice, facrcd order, and perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The view of it exhibited in this
elfay, at the fame time that it repreilVs tbs
insolence of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrage* of oppreflion ; confirms, in the
most forcible manner, the necelfify of subor
dination, and the just demands of lavHul au
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every c'vil diftinftion,
draws more closely every Ibcial tie, unites in
one harmonious and justly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the even 1
ground of the inherent rights of human na- ]
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com- ,
mon relation to the coramuuity.
March 18. tu&ftf
The Public are cautioned to i ;
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty %
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
federal of which have appeared in circulation <
'within a few days pafl ; they are a good ge- i
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may I
be diftmguijhed by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL thai have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes Ihe ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to the top of the M, would extend con
(uiterajjiy above &be range of the whole, word.
In the word United the letters ire narrow
erand clofei* together than the reft of the bill
The i and fin the word promise are not
parallel, the yinclining much more forward
than the i.
The eng/aving is badly executed,the strokes
of all the l etters are stronger and the devi e
in the margin particularly is much coarser
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
ot the counterfeits bear date in 1791—Where
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
her, and no five dollar bills were issued in
year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. tor their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar '
to that of the counterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described ; the engraving is bettei exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The £11? ruled linesthrough the word Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, are in number thir
teen irl the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfoils. \
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar B lis as defer ibed a
bove, the 0 beii?g lets than the m, ethers
following.
There is no stroke to the / in the word North
whereas in ihe genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The .letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, out are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and the>> go
ing below them.
The -signature | ftixon, has the appear
ance of oeing written with lamb-black and
01, and differs from other inks used in
printing the bills and the caftiier's signature.
It'is supposed 1 these forgeries were committed
in fomeofthc Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, from
1 hence, and two pet fens have been appTFhcirel—-<
ed-in Virginia,on fbfpicion'of being the author
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be-paid to any or Persons who shall
di fcover and prosecute to convi&ion the several
offenders of ihe following defci iplious or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufa&ured
the paper on which the Bills are primed.
The person or pqrfons, who engraved the
plates. \
The printer or printer*, ©f the bills.
Every person who has a&ed as a principal in
any ofiber way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said Uilis.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
ter B.
They may be distinguished from the genu
ine tyv the following MARKS :
The paper of the counterfeits is of a more
tender texture and glofley furface than the
genuine, aiid there is no water mark in them.
The letter C. in the word Cafliier, in the
true bills is strongly marked, whereas' in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
stroke, evidently in an unfinifhed state. The
letter * in the Word demand, is badly formed
and the who.'e word ill done, and there is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuinfe bill*.
The margitfal device, is much darker in
the falfe, than in the genuine bills owintr to
the shade (frokes being coarser, much nearer
together, and consequently much more nu-,
merous. This difference strikes the eye at firft
view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will be paid for apprehending, &
profeciiting to conviction the several above
deferred Offenders in refpeft to this, as to
the lait defenbed bills-
THOMAS WILLING, President
of the B.mk United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
pt&ive Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of (be City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
is riot exceeded bymany in the vicinity
of tlu- city, in fizi,-or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer, v
in&thtf
«
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, Nsw-Yu*k
THE Subicribci intending io conlim himfclf V
entirely to the PURCHASE & SAI.E oK
STOCKS on COMMISSION, bigs leave 10 of
fer his Cervices to his iriends and others, in the
line ola Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their buftnels, may (Upend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the utmost fide
lity and dilpatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Bolton, or any
other part of the United States, will be (Irittly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
ro&thtf
B" Ph'tlad. April h.l, 1794.
Notice, agreeably to charter, is here
y given to the members of the Corporation
for the Relief of Poor and Dijlrejed Presby
terian Ministers, and of the Poor and DiJ
trejfed Widows and children tf Prefbyter'mn
Ministers, that a meeting of said corporatioa
is to take place, on the aid day of May next,
in the second Presbyterian church in the city
of Philadelphia, at 4 o'clock P. M. for the
dispatch of all such bufmefs as may then be
brought before the board.'
AS! 18-EL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
tuth&s6t
Just Puhlifhed,
AND TO BE-SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone house, No. 41, South Second
Street,
Historical ColTe&ions •
, CONSISTING .OF
STATE PAPERS,
And other authentic Documents, intended, as
materials forau Hlftory of the United States
of America. ' -
BY EBENEZER HAZARD, A. M.
In two large quarto volumes, price ten dol
lars in boards.
Subscribers will be furnifhed with the 2d;
volume on paying three dollars and a quarter'
—having paid five dollars and a quarter 00
receiving the firft.
This lecond volume comprehends, among
othpr ihierefting particulai s, a complete c
py of the Records of the United Colonies of
N. England, in which the conduct of the coili
mifiioners relpefting the general concern of
the colonies—the neighbouring lidians-—and
the Dutch at Manhattans, (now New York) 11
particularly detailed.
* t * Materials are coHefted fufficicnt to
form a THIRD VOLUME, The time a
pubiilhing will depsnd on the encouragement
to be derived fiom fublci iptions which will he
received by Thomas Dobfon, Philadelphia ;
Jcre. Libbeyj New Hampmircj
Thomas &Andiew s, & Dav. Weft,Borton; It
aia Thomas, Woi Qefter ; I lifers, New-
Haver; Timothy Green, New 1• • (V lii; Jacob
R'chardfon, Newport; John Carter, Pravi- .
deuce; Hugh Gaine, Thomas Allen, and (
Samuel Campbell, New York ; Eietl ricij
Craig, Wilmington, Delaware; James Rice,
Baltimore; Mr. Lindfef, Norfolk; Dav 3
Henderfon, Fi edericlcsbu. s ; John Grammar
Peterlbuig ; Davis, Richmond ; F
X. Martin, Newbern, N. C. John Bradley,
Wilmington ; and William Price Young,C:iar
-Ift ft on«
April 4 mwifcfjw
Treasury Department,
Revenue Office, April 16th, 1794.
Communications by post or
otherwif-. will be-received by way of infor
mation at the Office of the Commiilionrr of
the Revenue from persons willing to fuoply iron
Cannon, Cannon Ball, and Shells, for the for
tifications and Ships of War. Tfce fii.r»efs of
the metal for cannon,'and the capacity of cb<s
founders in farieK-ing, in preparing and mix
ing the metal, and tn calling anA boring the
cannon (which are to be cast folvdly) will re*
quire to be parcicularly stated.
Similar communications will also he receiv
ed from any persons willing to fnppjy live
oak and red cedar timber for. the conferu&ioh
of thefhips of wa r - Different plans of pio
curing and supplying the fame may be propCf
ed. The convenience of the lii nation in re
gard to navigation, and theftate of the timber
whether already fallen or hereafter to be cut,
will iequire to he noticed.
All the necelTary particulars in regard to
the.'several articles which are wanted, will be
fpecified ir. contra&sjntended to be grounded
in part on the information, which is hereby
fought.
PASSAGE POUR ST. DOMINGUE.
Tousles Francois qui fc font prefetrre
ou vyudKoiit fe presenter pour avoir' ure
promote pour St. Domingue, font irir
ftamme»t pries de laiflVr leurs noms aujout
d'hui 011 demain, dans le comptair de James
Mc. Curach & Co/ No 42 Dock ftreer, qui
fe prbpofent d'envoyer son batiment le Same.
di prochain 3 de Mai : le batiment elt lout
pret pour faire a la vtfile avec des bonnes ac
commodations pour prendre paflagers a bord.
. April 29- 3 r -
NANKEENS."
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
FOR SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April 41. mw&ftf
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 3
South Fourth-Sueet. \