1
EVENING AD V E R T I S E R.
[No. 109 of Vol. V.] Saturday, April 19, 1794. [Whole No. 568.]
For Amsterdam,
—I The new fsft-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
|gg| ADRIAN A,
K. Fitepatrick, Master.
BUII.T of live oak and cedar was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
• all (Convenient speed. For freight or passage,
having excellent'accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut ftreet-wharf, or to
7'HOS. W JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Pallengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March A, dtf
For Norfolk & Fredericks burgh,
LITTLE SALLY,
John Earl, Master.
A Haunch good velTel, will fail in a few
days. For freight or p flage, to the
matter en bosrd at Chefaut street wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONY & SON.
March 31. dtf
£or Sale or Charter,
jjj Andromache,
(An American bottom)
«rfossgJohn Moore, Master.
IS a flout good vessel, about two years oM,
burthen 232 rous, has only made three voy
ages, and inay be sent to sea at a small ex
]>ence. She maybe Teen at Vine-street
and the terms made knriwn bv application to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
March 21. dtf
The Profits artfmgfromtr following fht/ti
catiar. arc far tlx benefit, of the Poor.
Just published, printed by R. Aitkeri and
iiua, and fold bv J. Cruifcank, W. Young
T. Dobfon< anci the other Booksellers,
MINU T E S
Of the
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed on the 14th September 1793 by
the Citizens of Philadelphia, the Nvii thern
Liberties, and the D (trie* of Southwark,
to atteird to and alleviate the fiifferings of
the afSificri with the Malignant Fe^erjpre
valent. ii] the City and its vicinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
A lift of persons admitted into the Ilofpi
tal at Bu(h hill, Ihewing the times of their
admiilion, death and dil'charge.
Number of Houit-s, Deaths, &c. in the.
refpe&ive streets, alleys, and courts hi the
c tyol Philidelphia, Northern Liberties, and
Diftnft of Sonrhwark.
A lift of the Interments in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia, Northern
Lioerties, and D»ftr»& of Southwark, with a
meteorological account if the weather.
A fuinaia' y ct donations in cash and provi
"ttons, received from sundry peribns and pla
ces, for the us * of the poor and affii&ed.
April 2. dgw
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,'
from and now landing
on WalnuUftreet wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Oznafoirgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, liz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious sites.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, J\uare and flat bars.
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakttm, tfe. &c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-rhentioned Ship is for Sale—
thoii'dapplication be made •within a few days ;
other-wife Jhe -will take freight for Amjler
dam.
March 1, 1794. d t f
to be~solsT"-
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
INan eligible lituatioj,—alfo a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 44 acres ot Jand and ineado v, the
Houle is not exceeded bymany in the vicioit)
®f the city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
January 23 m&th—tf
7 '
*
To be fold by Public Vendue,
The laflant,
At the Cqfkf.e House,
At Seven o'clock in the Evening,
By order of the Rector, Church Wardens and
Veftryof the United Episcopal Churehes
of Christ Church at d St. Peter's
l Philadelphia, the T ufrees of the Univeifi
, ty, and the Managers of the Peunfylvania
l Flo'pial,
The House and Lot bequeathed
by tlie iaft Will and Tcftamein of
Stoops deceafedjiri equal proportions to the
a ove institutions, being
The House, No. 20,
Whe ein J >Htph spencer now iiveswellfitu
ated for t)uliixefs, on the weft fide of Third
? ltreet, about midway between Market tfnd
Aich street. It is 17 feetfront upon Thud
T street, and the lot is 132 feet deep
The purchaser payiug half the purchase mo
* ney 011 delivery df the deed, may have twelve
months credit for ttte remiiihfier, on
good fecuritv and paying in.erect.
THOMAS CUiMPSTON,
JOHN WII COCKS,
Committee for the Reftor,Church Wardens
and Veftrv appointed to fell.
EDWARD FOX,
Committee for the Um vefPity.
► JOSEPH PASCHALI,
SAMUEL COATES,
BARTHOLOMEW WISTAR,
Committee for tke Peimfyivauia Hofpiwl.
Apiii i - dts
The following Certifi
ca«e of the iui/ded three pc r Cent Stock <ii ine
Dotmft c Dc.utii ihe U<«Mied S.iatcs ft.'ndirv. on
the booki ot ihe Tifca|u>\ of th United
Siatts, in ihe names ot Donnala and Bu<tun ot
London, meichants, and ftgned by Joffcph
Register of said Tt alury, to vvii :—
N°. 5476, dated 24 h August J 792 f«»r 2955
dollar «nd ceil(!> wa s tranimitim from Lou
dun in the ihip Prtei, Pau; Huffey, malio,
boUnd for Niw York, and has been lo
The Suhfenber intending to apply to the Irta
furyof ihe United States to have the fame "re
newed, defius all persons who are mteiefted in
the said certificaie, to make tKeir objetlions
thereto, if any they have.
Francis Macy.
Philad. March 27. ■ dow
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVXRY Frenehmm is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commissions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
i'hilailelphia, Ventofei6th, fecondyear of
the French Republic, one and in&Vifible
'(March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
The Mimfter Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
"I he Editors of newspapers within the
United Sta: ;s, are requested to republic the
oregoing notice. J
Concluding Sales.
THE Subscriber having entertd into Co
partnership with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the bufm-fs of Sugar Refi.iing. will dispose
of ihe
Remaining Stock on hand
CONSISTING OF
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By WheUfale at Prime Cojl for Cajh.
John Dorfey,
'No. 2S, North 3<l ilreet.
Apnl ' 2 - Hlth&s6«r
Samuel Coates,
At his Store, No. 82, south Front Jlreet
hath for sale,
94 Barrels
Ne*v England Beef,
29 barrels liver oil,
25 barrels Cider,
9* boxc » of Candles,
M°°JT of men's leather (hoes
642 bulhels of Barley
A quahtity of Tow Linen
D.tio, of New-tnglaud Soal leather
4° bags of excellent corton
4 boxes of Clfocolatc
3000 wt. ot Alfpice
too cases of the btft Holland gin.
A P nl '• *eod2<»
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Fine Dollar Bills of
the Bank of "the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America >
fenjtral of which ha*ve appeared in circulation
within a few days pajl; they art a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be dijlinguijhed by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
. - United States.
ALL thai have appeared have the letter F.
for tlieir Alphabetical Mark.
"I he Tekture of tie Paper is thicker and
whiter it takes tlie ink more freely than
tliegifnuine paper.
i Ti>e O. ijf (i, e word Company is smaller
than the M. and oth<r Ittrers of that word,
so that a line extended from ihe topr.f the O,
to touch the t..p of the M would t-xtend con
lulmaoty rl>e range of the whole word.
In the woid Un ted the letters are narrow
erai dclofer together than tht-refl ol the bill
Ihe rind fin the word promile are not
paral el, the niuch jiiore forward
than the 1.
1 lie eflgi aviug is badly eXecmed, he ftiokts
of all the Leriers-aie ftrongei and the devi e
111 the margin particularly is much coa.irr ai d
appears darker than in the true bili:. Some
the couniei fcits'bear daie in Jygi Wfitre
astl>»£aak was not in operatiou lili Delem
ber, and no five dollar bills were jlTued in
that year. (
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared ha'te the letter '
B alphabetical mark.
1 Key are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of tiie couuterfeit Five Doilai Notes
ab >ve defenbed ; the engraving is bi tei exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine i uled lines through the word Tatrt
h, in the hody of ihe bill, ate in numbei th*r
teen in the genuine b lis, a».d but iwclve in
the counterfeits*
The word Company is n.uch like the f?me '
word in the Five Doliu/ B Us as defer ibed. a
bove,' tlie 0 being ieis than the «, and others
feilowmg.
rbert- is no stroke to the t in the word North
when efts ill the genuine bills the ili oke is web
defined.
The ent in the word Twenty) to the
left liawd at the battmi, do noi come down to
the line, but are so.cut as to gue an n
appearance to the word, the Tw and go
ing below them'.
The Signature J Nixon, has the appear
ance ot being written wit.i lamp-black and
oil, and differs from the otlaer inks uled in
printing the bills and the cafhiei's iignatuie
It is luppoied these were coinmnieo
in It-me ot the Southern $t«iio, a> all the couu
leileits that have appeared, have come fr«»m
thence, and two perfoiis have been appteheod
ed in Virginia,on suspicion of being the authors
ot them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid 10 any Perlon 01 Fci f»)in> w l»o ihai 1
d fcovei and profccute to convi&iori the levejal
otfi-nders ot. the tollow ing defci ipuons or any
ot them, viz,
T ne person or p rfons, who manuf«»^ urc d
the paper on which the BiUi are primed.
The person or pcilons, who engiaved the
plate?.
The printer or printers, of the bU's.
\ very perf.,„ w ho has a&ed as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
log the iai<i bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Ptcfcdent
of the B,tnk Unitrd Staitis.
JOHX NIXON, Picfidtnt of the
Bank ot North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
pc£t;ve Boaids.
Fhiladelpnia, Match 28. 1794. dtf.
Excellent CLARET,
In LoglVcad* ai.d in casts of 50 bottles each.
also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine j
MADEIRA,,
In pipes, hop,(heads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. x 11, South Front Uree't.
Jan. 2, 1794. 1 dtf
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. Ijß,
Maiket-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery,
Dphgned to exnibit in a new ppint ot v.iew
its eft'e&s on marals, ijiduflry, and the peace ej
focicty. Some fa£U and calculations are offered
to prove tfie labor of freemen to be much more
pr*iu*ii\>c than .that ot jiaves ; that countm s are
rictvpowerful and happy, in piopoiuon ai the
laboring p ople enjoy ihe fruits' of theij own
labor ; and hence the n< cefT«»'v concluGot), that
lUvery ts impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cents.
'Februarv 15.
I
3 For the Gazette of the United Srjfss
y Mr. Fenno,
(j Tile excellence of a free jpwernment is
n that the citizens stand on a lair footing of
». equality. A writer in Mr. Bacbe's papa- of
Vv'edntfday, vindicates the eftabhfliment of
clubs, and fairly avows that they will have
influence and ought to have it. This is bold,
but is it discreet, gentlemen clubbifts ?
You meet then to guin influence —What
becomes of other men not members of your
club ! You have influence which they have
d not—of courie your influence is againil equal
n r 'pit. —You are aristocrats—a privileged tor
dcr, not by law, or by the free consent of
r others, but by your own usurpation and in
, trigue—You are conspirators again!} the equal
rights of your fellow citizens.
,! Two hundred men by clubbing together,
]. can set at nought the vote of a citizen who
rainds his own buiinefs and joins no dark
1 meetings—They fan over-rule the votes of
, t two hundred dispersed citizens, who, not
j concerting together, how they lhall vote, in
• fad) lose their fuffrages.
s Thev-are thus dislranchifed by the rlub—
e Is this right ?Is the bluster of the club about
d liberty aid equality confident with either ?
e On the contrary' is it not the furnrmt of ipa
■- pudonoe thus to copipre against libertv and
' equality, and at the fame time to anWV a
n zeal in the cause of both —The people of
, America are not so base and ignorant as, to
J he duped by this (hallow asd imf lident-Hy
t pocrify. "L. E.
UNITED STATES.
!s -
CHARLESTON, A'pril i.
Extract of a litter from Savannah dated
March, 2(j.
n Yesterday afternoon the Industry Cgpt.
Carvatft, arrived in she river with a Span
e ilh prifce, having about 4000 doubloons,
some cocoa, Malaga wine aa4 dry goods,
with $0 £>panilh soldiers, The prize
/, proves to be a brig from Catthagena to t!he
li Havanpah, a King's packet, mounting 8
nine pounders. The 1 nduft 1 y bas also tftk
" en an English (hip, called the Lord Mid
dletpn, bound to.Ntir-Yu.it, with
hogsheads of nim, which v.as ransomed ;
also, t*fo ol- three other Spani/b and Eug
j lifh vefiels.
, The following is an Climate of the car
go of the Spanish prize sent into Savan
-1 nah, received by a gentleman jult. ariv'ed
~ from thence ;
dollars
s 3,400 doubloons 5 i,qs>o
3,000 dollars 3,q00
1 8 bars of gold, valued at 30,900
1 Cocoa valued at 29^000
1 1 in -
1 CONGRESS.
IN SENATE,
Monday, March 31.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
prefeHtatives for concurrence, entitled, «;a»
tact transferring for a limited tiir.e, the ju
rifdiftion of suits and offences, from the
diftrift to the circuit court of New-Martifi
(h!re, and afligning certain duties, in rcf
peft to invalid pensions, to the attorney
. of the faid-diftrift," was read the third
time.
Resolved, That this bill pais.
Ordered, That the Secretary, acquaint
. the House of Reprefentatiies with the
concurrence of the Senate in this I)ill,
The bill, sent from the Hou e of Re
presentatives for concurrcnce, entitled,
" an ast to provide for placing buoys on
certain rocks off the harbor of New-Lon
don, 2nd in Providence river," was read
the third time.
Refolvrd, That this bill pass with a
mendmcnts.
Ordered, That the Secretary Stfire the
concurrence of the House of Representa
tives in the amendments to this bill.
Mr. Burr from the committee, to
, whom was referred the mbflagfe from the
President of the United States, of the
' 28th instant, reported a lcfolutron tocar
-1 ry into more compleat effect, the resoluti
on direftin* an embargo; which waa
read— ' .Resolved, That this tefolution pass.
Ordered, That the Secretary desire the
of the House of R'eprefenta
ivcs in this icluluiioii.
A meiiagfe from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Lambert in the absence
of Mr. Beckley their clerk detained by
(icknefs.
" Mr. Prelident—The House of Re
prefentttivee do not concur in the resolu
tion sent from the Senate, to carry into
tnore complete effect the resolution direel
ing an embargo.
" They have pasTed " A resolution to
carry in'.o more complete effect the reso
lution dire&ing; an embargo ; in which
they desire the concurrence of the Senate."
And he withdrew.
The Senate proceeded to the consider
ation of the last mentioned resolution,
sent from the House of Representatives
for concurrence.
Resolved, That the Senate concur there-
in. .
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the House of Representatives with the
concurrence of the Senate in this resolu
tion.
The bill to make provision for the wi
dow and orphan children of Robert For
fyth, who was killed in the service of the
United States, was read the third time.
On motion.
It was agreed to amend the bill by in
ferring " two thousand" in lieu of " one
thousand dollars."
On the question, (hall this bill pass ?
Itpafledin the affirmative—Yeas 13 —
Nays 8.
The yeas and nays being required by
One-fifth of the Senators present.
Those who voted in the affirmative, are
Messrs. Bradford, Bun, Butler, Cabot,
Gunn, Hawkins, Jackson, Izard, King,
Martin, Monroe, Morris and Taylor.
Those who voted in the negative, are,
Messrs. Bradley, Brown, Ellfworth, Fre
linghuyfen, Langdon, Livermore, Ro
binson and Strong.
So it was
Resolved, That this bill pass, that it be
engrossed, and that the title thereof be,
" An a£t to make provision for the wi
dow and orphan children of Robert For
fyth who was killed in the service of the
United States."
Ordered, That the Secretary desire the
concurrence of the House of Representa
tives in this bill.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning*
Congress of the United States.
lioufe of ReprefentativN
Thnrfday, April 14.
Mr.Swift's obfervationsupon tlierefolution
introduced by Mr. Clark, to prohibit
the importation of the manufactures
of Great Britain and Ireland, till fatis
fadtion should be made for the fpolia-.
tions on our commerce—for the ne
groes carried away contrary to the trea"
ty of peace—and till the western posts
be given up.
[concluded.]
Mr. SWIFT observed, that while he
considered negociation to be attended to
by all nations—he had particular reasons
to wish that it might be adopted by the U
nited States—He wished that this Repub
lic might establish and ast upon a princi
ple which was calculated to bring national
disputes to an amicable accommodation
and prevent the calamities of war.
Mr. S. then remrrked upon some parti
cular objections to the resolutions—He
said that the surrender of the western posts
and payment for negroes carried away
contrary to the treaty of peace was a sub
jeCt of controversy that had no connec
tion with and ought not to be connect
ed with the spoliations committed on our
commerce ; and was calculated not only
to prevent the obtaining of that compensa
tion to which our merchants were entiqcd
but to cut off forever all commeicial in
tercourse with Great Britain. It is a
well known faCt, that Great Britain has
charged the United States with being guil
ty of the firft infra£tion of the treaty and
that the United States have retorted the
charge. While they seriously believed,
that we were the firft violators of the
treaty —what would they fay to an ast of
the legislature which renounced all con
neCtion with them, unless they would ful
fil the terms of a treaty which they con
sidered themselves to be discharged from,
by our firft violation ? Could it be expect
ed, that they would comply with terms so
haughty and insolent ? Could any person
fuppofs that the proud nation of Great
Britain, would humble themselves before
us in this manner ? Would they not con
sider their national honor to be affe&ed,
and abandon all connexion with us before
they would fubrriit to terms so humilia
ting and degrading ?
Mr. S. remarked, that he did not mean
to fay, that the United States firft in
fringed the treaty—for the purpose of his
argument, it was fufficient to f fay,—
that Great Britain thought so, and such
being her impreilion the fame consequen
ces would follow as if such was the fact
—Arid the dispute refpefting the weltern
polls, wliiih Could be of but little impor
tance to this country, might forever inter
rupt a commerce which was of the great
est importance. He did not think that
the vveftern polls were worth so great a
facrifice.
If this resolution be adopted, we can
not recede in honor unless there be a com
pliance with every article. It may then
happen that a dispute refpefting some tri
fling fubjefts may prevent a restoration
of that commerce which will be of great
and important value : But if we do not in
the firft instance give them our ultimatum
we may discover the terms on which they
will negociate, and then it will be in our
power without any tmbarraffment from an
antecedent law to conlider what is bell to
be done, and make any concession that
our interest requires and which is compa
tible with honor.
If Great Britain should be disposed to
negotiate and comply with the conditions
we offer, such is the nature, variety and
extent of our disputes, that the difculfion
and adjustment of them would require so
great a length of time, that the loss ari
ling from the interruption of our com
merce during that period, would be of
greater confequenee than the objects of
dispute—For if this measure be adopted
we mult expect a total interruption of all
commerce with all parts of the British
dominions, as relative to exports as well
as imports, for tho' the resolution only
contemplated the prohibition of manufac
tures from Great Britain and Ireland—
yet, we might be fatisfied, that Great
Britain would not give us a trade that was
profitable only to ourselves.
Mr. S. observed that we ought to con
sider that if this proportion should be a
dopted what great alterations would take
place in the value of property ; foreign
articles would rife, and domeftic—fall.
An immense profit would accrue to the
owners on the spring goods which might
arrive before it was intended that the ast
should commence its operation. There
could be no doubt but that in a short
time a variation in the value of property
contrary to the interest of this country
would take place to a far greater amount
than all the spoliations which had been
committed on our commerce. Merchants
who had large quantities of goods on
hand, would profit by the measure, and
the agricultural part of the community
would be obliged to sustain the loss.
It had been suggested that the people
were anxious for the measure. It was
probable, 'that some, who had a particular
interest to serve, by the interruption of
trade, were in favor of it; but the moll
considerate part of the community, were
by no means of that sentiment. But let
the popular opinion be what it would, too
much had been said about it. We are
not to be influenced by such considera
tions, but are only to regard the public
welfare. That we ought to guard against
all popular influence as being of the most
dangerous tendency That there was
no danger to be apprehended from the
government—that it had not the power,
and had never shewn any disposition to
encroach upon or oppress the people
that the only danger that exists is from
the encroachmjft't.of the people on the
government, and if the government ever i
does fall, it wfll be owing to the too great
prevalence of a local popular influence,
which does not speak the general sense of
all the community.
But if this resolution should be reject.
Ed and a negociation pursued, it will be
accompanied with an implied declaration
that if it fails, the United States will
take proper steps to obtain redress which
will havr all the influence to enforce and
facilitate a negociation that can be deri
ved from this measure, unembarrafied with
any of the inconveniencies. If the ne
gociation (hould,fail we can have recourse
to this measure with the fame efficacy
then, as now, and it will produce the ef
fects—for our commerce must be as im
portant to Great Britain at the end of fix
I months as now.
It had been faggefted that the oppo
fers of the resolution were under British
influence and interest. Mr. Swift did not
intimate that any gentleman of the com
mittee had thrown out that idea, but he
said it was a popular opinion, and very pre
valent. He remarked that the charge
was itnjuft, cruel and unfounded—that
for himfelf, he felt no influence—he flood
on American ground, and was influenced
only by American feelings. He did not
advocate any commercial connection with
Great Britain from any regard to that
nation, but merely from a regard to his
own country, whose interest he conceived
to be promoted by that connexion. He
remarked, that fom'e, who were considered
as British agents, had boasted of their in
fluence in the legislature. He declared
that no such influence existed—and that
he molt heartily despised those persons,
who had the effrontery to pretend that it
did exist.
Mr. Swift remarked, that a popular o
piriion in some parts of the Union had
been prevailing, that many of the Repre
sentatives in Congress were under such an
influence arising from the funding system,
that they dared not adopt measures neces
sary for the public defence for fear the in
terest of the national debt Ihould remain
unpaid. He said that a molt unreasona
ble and unfounded jealousy refpefting the
funding system existed among ihe people ;
that he was fatisfied, during the time he
had held his present office, that no mea
sure had been influenced by an exclusive
regard to the public debt; that he had
never owned a farthing in the public funds
—but he considered that let vfhatever e
vents take place, the national debt mull
be paid ; that if it were neceflary he would
vote for a land tax for that purpose, for he
considered the faith of the government
pledged for the payment of that debt, and
he would never violate the national faith ;
such being the security of the debt, none of
the holders had any reason to apprehend a
failure of payment, and therefore none of
the committee could be influenced by an
apprehension of the failure of payment.
Mr. Swift said that we ought to consi
der the tendency of this meafuie to a war.
Many of the friends of it had denied this,
and declated that they considered it to be
a peaceful measure—but will all fay this ?
A gentleman from New-Jersey (Mr.
Dayton) has said that he is in favor of it
—because he considers it to be a Itepping
stone to the threlhold of sequestration. Mr.
Swift said that he refpefted the virtues
and the talents of that gentleman ; he be
lieved his integrity to be unimpeachable,
and that he acted from the purest motives
—that he did not wish to wound his feel
ings, but that he was bound in duty to
express his sentiments refpedting any pro
position he Ihould make ; he considered
the proposition of sequestration as conned
ed with' this measure by what the gentle
man himfelf had said, and from thence he
derived an argument against it: He had
said that this resolution was the stepping
stone of sequestration ; if that be true,
Mr. Swift said lie Ihould step on this stone
with horror and indignation ; he Ihould
consider it to be the step stone to the tem
ple of infamy, wretchedness and ruin ; he
considered that it woulcj not only involve
his country in disgrace, but in all the ca
lamities of a war.
He said that gentlemen ought to unfold
the whole system of their measures with
their object and design, and not deceive
people into measures which they would
reprobate if they knew the consequen
ces ; that he believed while there were
gentlemen who had nothing but peace
in view, that there were many who
intended to defeat a negociation, to dis
solve our commercial connexion with
Great Britain forever, and who were wil
ling to plunge us into a war wjth that na
tion. If gentlemen had not that design,
let them come forword and declare it; but
while there was reason to fufpeft such a
defigp, the gentlemen who, were in favor
of the resolution under confederation, but
intended nothing more, ought to be cauti
ous how they adopted a measure that would
lead to the molt mischievous consequen
ces.
On a full consideration of the fnbjeft,
Mr. Swift said that he was convinced that
this measure would lead to a war; but if
a fair negociat ion (hould be attempted, he
had 110 doubt but that all controversies
might be fettled, ample fatisfaftion ob
tained, commerce restored, and that our
country would contiuue t« flourifh and
prosper.
April 17.
A resolution proposed some days since
for the continuation of the embargo, was
taken up in committee of the whole, Mr.
Sherburne in the chair.
Mr. Lee made a motion for excepting
foreign bottoms from the operation of the
embargo.
I his motion was supported chieflv upon
the grounds; that the agricultural interest
fuffers by a general embargo ; that the
chief intention of the embargo is to keep
American navigation from the grasp of ra
pacity, and this end will be as fully answer
ed under the operation of the amendment.
Againlt it, it wes urged, that the dif
tinftion will excite a jealousy in the bread
of our citizens—will tend to deprive us of
our seamen, who will engage, for the want
of domestic employment, on board of for
eign veflels, and also strip us of some por
tion of our veflels, by rendering foreign
bottoms much more valuable than Amer
ican. It was also said, that one object of
the embargo will be frullrated by the a
mendment—the fading of the British If
. lands. Such a discrimination, will render
an embargo instead of an ast calculated to
repel an agggrefiion and prevent future in
ury, an erfcouragement to insult, by encou
raging foreign trade in preference to Ame
rican. The amendment was loft.
Another amendment was proposed to
enable merchants, under certain restric
tions, to fend dispatch boats to the Welt In
dies, in order to comply with the forms re
quisite to lodge, within the limited time,
appeals from the Admiralty courts of the
British islands. Several attempts were
made to guard the provision so that it
ftiould not be a means of evading the-em
bargo. This appeared, finally, not to
have been done to the fatiffaftion of a ma
jority, and upon its being fuggeftcd that
the renewal of the general embargo resolu
tion was a measure that did not admit of
delay, and that the provision proposed
might be considered at another time lepar
ately—The queftipu was taken and the a
mendmcnt loft.
The original resolution was agreed to
by a very large majority, and reported to
the house, where it was immediately taken
up.
It was fcggefted, thpt Sweden by trea
ty is positively exempted fom the opera
tion of embargoes, and that if this be the
cafe, France, Holland, &c. who have by
treaty theprivileges of the mod favored na
tions, are also exempt, and they should be
, positively exempted in the resolution.
It was answered, that treaties are the
supreme law of the land ; and cannot clash
with a resolution of Congress. However,
it was conceived, that the provision in the
Swedish treaty is not altogether clear, and
at any rate can only entitle them to carry
away their veflels, but not to export our
produce again ft our will—for in that cafe
our every attempt to lay an embargo
might be baffled by those foreign nations
A proviso, however, was adopted, ex
pressly excepting from the operation of
the embargo nations exempted by treaty.
Another proviso was then adopted, to
enable merchants to fend difpatch-boatsto
any of the Weft-India islands, for the pur
pose stated above. The resolution was
then carried—the 25th May being the
term limited for the operation of the em
bargo. t:
The committee of ways and means re
ported, and after some further bulinefs
the house adjourn-ed.
April 18.
The report of the committee of tlie who'e
on Mr. Clark's resolution for a non-impor
tation of British goods was called up.
After much debate the question on taking
the report up was put, and the yeas and -nays
being called for were as follows:
AYES.
Meflrs. Armstrong, Bailey, Bale'win, Bat
ty, Blount, Carnes, Christie, CUibcurnc,
Clark, Coles, Dayton, Dearborn, Dent,
Findley, Giles, Gillel'pie, Greenup, Gregg,
Griffin, Grove, Hancock, Harrifon, Heath,
Hunter, Irwin, Locke, Lyman, Macon, Ma
dison, M'Dowell, Mebane, Montgomery,
Moore, P. Muhlenberg, Nevi), New, Ni
cholas, Orr, Page, Parker, Pickens, Preston,
Rutherford, Scott, Sherbourne, V.Cortland,
Ven*ble, Walker, Williams, Winn, Win
ftok, Smilie, J. Smith, I. Smith, S. Smith,
Sprigg, Tread well, —57.
NOES.
MefTrs. Ames, Boudinot, S. Bourne, B.
Bourne, Cadwallader, Cobb, Coffin, Coit,
Dexter, Fitzfimons, * orreft, Foftcr, Gilbert,
Gilman, Gler., Goodhue, Gordon, Hartley,
Heifter, Hiilhoufe, Hindman, Holten, Kit
tera, Learned, Lee, Malbone, Murray, Njles,
Sedgwick, W. Smith, Swift, Talbot,Thatch
er, Traey, Trumbull, Van AHen, Van Gaaf'Beck, P. Wadfworth, J. Wadfworth, Ward,
Watt?, Wingate— 42.
Mr. Beatty then proposed an amendment
to the resolution as reported, which modifies
it so as to provide that the iritercourfe ihall
be restored when the treaty is fulfilled and
reparation for the injuries fuffered by our
navigation is made to the fatisfaclion of the
executive.
This, after some debate, was withdrawn
to give way to an amendment from Mi.
difon which will make the proposition read
in substance as follows:
« Whereas the injuries fuffered and likely
to be'fuffered by the United States, from a
violation of our neutral rights and commer
cial interests on the part of Great Britain,
and also from a failure in the execution ot
the 7th article of the treaty of peace make
it expedient that oOr commercial mtercou- le
with that nation Ihould not remain as exten
sive as it now is, therefore resolved, that from
the day of next our commercial
imercourfe with that nation be fufpentled.
The chief difference between this propo
sition and the original resolution is, that m
this it is not fpecified on what conditions the
intcrcourfe (hall be restored ; leaving, there
fore, to a future legislature, when th«y are
latisfied with the reparation which negocia
tion may procure from Great Britain, to re
new our commercial relations with that coun-
try.
The oppofers of the original resolution
asked for time to consider the amendment,
and it was ordered to be printed.
The Senate agreed to the resolution conti
nuing the embargo, after striking out the
provisos. The house concurred in this and
the resolution which authorises the continua
tion of the embargo till the 25th of May,
under the regulations now in force, which
was signed by the speaker.
Adjourned till Monday.
Foreign Intelligence.
PARIS, January 7.
A letter from Brest of the ift mft. gives
the following description of the Naval Force
in that Harbor:—Never was there, under the
Ancient Government, in the Road of Brest,
so well disposed and impoling a Squadron ;
police and subordination prevail among the
faitors ; the officers display energy and firm
nefs ; and all burn with desire of making the
English dance tht .Carmagnole ; they all burn
with a desire of washing away, in the blood
of Pitt, the affront gives to the Arms of the
Free Frenchmen at Toulon. Twenty five
Republican (hips wait the signal, to go to
strike down the FOES of LIBERTY, even
on the BANKS of the THAMES.
- AMERICA.
St. JOHN'S, (Antigua) March 17.
For want of room we have not been able
to lay before the Public this day, the debate
in Parliament, but such of them as may not
be in the mean time published, will appear in
our next, and we are happy to find that the
Address to his majesty for his moll gracious
fprech from the throne, was carried by 97
against 12 in the house of lords, and 277
against 59 in the house of commons. This
decided majority it is most likely will prevail
during the present session, whioh will enable
the minilter to carry into effect with little
difficulty, such measures as he may think
most for the honor benefit and advantage of
his majesty and his dominions.
UNITED STATES.
PITTSBURG, April 12.
Accounts from Cincinati, of the 15th of
March, inform us, that on the 4th, about 9
miles on this fide Fort Hamilton, 2 waggons
one of them loaded with merchandize, be
longing to Meflrs. Smith and Findley, the
other with quarter-mailer stores, were at
tacked by a party of Indians, the waggon
ers were both killed, the teams captured,
the waggons set on fire, and together with
their loading, entirely consumed. Mr.Tra
verse, owner of the waggons, was most in
humanly butchered.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 19.
The Senate of the United States, this day
concurred in the President's nomination of
John Jay as envoy extraordinary
to the Court of Great Britain. Ayes 18—
Noes B—which8 —which we hear were as follow:
Those who voted in the affirmative, Meflrs.
Langdon, Livermore, Strong, Cabot, Brad
ford, Folter, Ellfworth, Bradley, King, Ru
therfurd, Freliiihuyfen, Morris, Vining, Hen
ry, Pott?, Izird, Gunn, Jackfon —18.
Those who voted in the negative, Meflrs.
Burr, Taylor, Monroe, Edwards, Brown,
Hawkins, Martin, Butler—B.
By Bollon dapers it appears probable that
Mr. S. Adams, the present Lieut, of Gov.
of that state, will be eledled Governor for
the current year, by nearly two thirds of the
Votes of the people.
LedyarcPs Tra-vels, lo much enquired as
ter, are (peedily toiflueirqmtheprefs—Mr.
Philip I ; reniau the alitor and printer.
" Greenfield Hill" a poem by the Rev.
Dr. D-uiight, will speedily be published.—
The wtitar is well known, and the primary
intention of this work is to engage the rea
ders' attention to several of the most impor
tant interests of mankind, and especially to
tKe state of society in the United States.
Extract of a letter from New York dated
April 18.
« You have no doubt heard of the arrival
of Gen. Rochambeau Et Rhode Ifiand. He
capitulated on condition he {hould be sent to
America. He came in an Irilh transport
from Martinique, with several French offi
cers, convoyed by the Vesuvius bomb ftiip.
S.IR,
WE have the pleasure to inclose you a
draft for nine hundred forty one dolls, being
the profit of one night's performance at our
Theatre, the 24th March last, in aid of the
fund for the relief of citizcns of Philadel
phia in captivity at Algiers.
A further subscription by the individual
members of the company is on foot, and
when compleated will be forwarded to you.
We have the honor to be
with the greatest refpedt Sir,
your obedient humble servants.
WIGNELL & REINAGLE.
Phila. 9th April, 1794-
John Barclay, Esq.
The sum of two hundred and fifty fix
pounds two shillings and sixpence sterling,
was the amount of the benefit night at the
Theatre in Charleston, (S. C.) for the Ame
rican Captives in Algiers, which sum was
deposited by Meflrs. West and Bign.il,
in the Treasury of that state.
Was married on Thursday evening last,
by the Reverend Dotftor Green, Mr. Robert
M'Kean, merchant, to Mils Ann Smith,
daughter of William Smith, Esq. all of this
city.
An Ordinance for the making comperfation
for the services of the Mayor of the city
of Philadelphia.
WHEREAS the office of Mayor of
the city of Philadelphia has become of
great importance to the welfare of the
city, in preserving the peace and good or
der of the fame, as well as in superintend
ing the due execution of the several de
partments neceflary in the various regulati
ons of the said qity, whereby the duties
of said office aie so increased that in the
diligent and ufeful discharge of the said
appointment, the time and attention of
the said magistrate is fully engrossed.
And whereas the fees of the said office of
Mayor vary very materially in different
years, yet at the highest rate are in no
manner competent, but are wholly inade
quate to the laborious and extraordinary
services required in the execution of the
said office ; and it is but just & reasonable
that compensation should be made for
such services, not resting in the uncertain
ty of perquisites.
Be it ordained and enabled by the Mayor,
Aldermen, and Citizens of Philadelphia in
common council ajfembled, That from and
ifter the 15th day of April in this pre
sent year, it shall and may be lawful for
:he Mayor of the city, for the time be
ng, at four quarterly periods in each
fear, to present to the Treasurer of this,
.•orporation a certificate under his hand,
pecifying and declaring the amount of
ill the fees of every description and kind,
which he (hall have received as Mayor of
:he city of Philadelphia, in the quarter
lext proceeding, such certificates being
presented, and the Treasurer is hereby
authorized and required upon receiving
from the Mayor a certifisate as above def
:ribed, to pay into his hands, for his use,
is much money as when added to the sum
which may be mentioned in such certifi
:atc, will amount to the sum of one hun
dred and fifty ponnds : and the treasurer
s dire&ed to take from the Mayor, re
:eipts for such sums as he (hall pay him
mder this ast: and he (hall be allowed
or the fame in his accounts with this cor
poration ; which allowance (hall be in full
rompenfation of the personal services of
he Mayor, and all other charges and ex-
Knees incident to the said office.
Be it further enafled and ordained by the
authority aforefaid, That this ordinance
Tiall continue in force during the term of
hree years, from and after the 15th day
of April inllant, and no longer.
Enafled into an ordinance at Phi
ladelphia, on Thursday the tenth
l. s. day of April, Anno Domini
one thousand seven hundred and
ninety four.
MATTH: CLARKSON, Mayor.
Robert Henry Dunkin,
Clerk of the Corporation.
By this Day's Mail.
, , NEW-YORK, April 20.
SURRENDER of FORT BOURBON.
By a geiulema 1 this moment arrived from
Newport, (R. I.) we hear that Gen. Roch
ambeau and Jiis suite have adlually arrived at
that place in the Vesuvius and Britannia. —
Fort Bourbon surrendered on the. 23d of
March, having been diftrefied for water af
ter the taking of Fort Louis on the % ill, by
the breaking of the water conduits. The
garrison consisting of about 1000 fpldiers are
sent to Europe. We apprehend this news to
be authentic.
Extract of a letter from Newport (R. I.)
to a merchant in this city, dated April
16th.
, f .Lail evening arrived hew a British
Sloop of War and a Transport, yvhich
brought General ROCHAMBEAU and
his Suite from Martinico, jvhich was .giv
en Hp the 23d March. When the {hips
left. Martinico, the British troops were
embarking for Gaudalonpe."
By the Captain who came in the above
(loop of war as a pilot, we are informed
that there were about 50 American vefiels
in the-harbor ; the men belonging thereto,
were, agreeably to aflurances of Sir John
Jervis, to have been liberated on his get
ting pofleflion ; but wereprifoners on board
of a prison-ship when the (loop of war fail
ed. And that the mails and rigging of
the American veffe's lying there were en
tirely cut down. [This information is
given by the Captain from Newport, who
heard it from the one above mentioned.}
Extract of a letter from Newport, dated
April 15, 1794.,
" Two (hips carrying the ensigns of sla
very from Martinique, with General Ro
charnbeau and his family on board, who
gave up Fort Bourbon on 13d March, 011
condition that himfelf and family (hould
be sent to this port, and the remainder of
the garrison sent to France, which was so
small that five (hips carried them all. We
are told by the captain of one of the (hips,
that General Rochambeau held the garri
son as long as his powder laded."
The President of the United States
has appointed Jofiah Tattnall, Esq. fede
ral mar/hal for the diltridt of Georgia, in
the room of Roht. Forfyth,Efq. deceyfcd.
City and County of New-York, sT.
BEFORE me Richard Varick, Esq.
Mayor of the city of New-Yerk, person
ally appeared James Tracy, late matter of
the brig Falmouth, from New-London,
being duly sworn, depofeth and faith, that
he was captured at sea on the loth Feb.
last, bound from Point-Petre to New-
London, by the three malted schooner cal
led the Experiment of Bermuda, Daniel
Morgan, master, mounting ioguns, was
carried into Montferat, and on the sixth
day of March was condemned, veflel and
caTgo; the whole being American pro
perty. That the following was in sub
stance the conversation that pafled on that
occasion between the deponant, and Tho
mas Harcum, the judge: This deponant
alked the judge upon what principle he
condemned the said veflel and cargo, as it
was proved to be wholly American pro
perty ? The judge answered it was on that
very principle of its being American pro
perty, and that he expected every day to
hear of a formal declaration of war by G.
B. against America, and that his estate
was all planted with Cafada for bread, as
he expected no more flour from America.
This deponent further faith, that he
produced the inftrudtions of the Bth Janu
ary, upon which the judge declared that
he had private inftruftions under which he
adted. And that he adted as an honest
man in obeying his orders punctually in
condemning the veflels as they came to
trial, and that the other judges would
condemn the American veflels although
they at present delayed the judgment,
fearing the threatening vengeance of the
This deponent further faith, that on
his paffageto St. Euftatia, he saw a ship
standing in for St. Kitts, with the Ame
rican flag reversed, aud the English co
lors over them. That this deponent was
threatened with confinement, for his spi
rited conduct before the judge, but the at
torney observed he was a prisoner of war,
and ought to be liberated, upon which
the judge gave this deponent a severe re
primand, and told him, he (hould be ta
ken up for High Treason if he made use
.mericanß.
of exprgffions insulting his wajcfty's judge,
and furtuer this deponent faith not.
JAMES TRACY.
Sworn this 17th day of April, 1794,
before Richard Varick, Mayor.
• BALTIMORE, April 17.
Yesterday afternoon arrived here,- the
fchooncr Sincerity, Simon White, matter, in
17 days frpm-St. Eullatius; with whom came
passengers, FulivartSfeipwith, Esq. late coni'ul
to the French windward Iflande, some other
gentlemen, and a number of matters of ves
sels who had heed captu red by the British.
It is with concern we inform the public,
that Gen. Rochambeau, after an heroic de
fence of Fort de la Convention, for 5 weeks,
was obliged to furrcndcr that important for
trefs, about the_ 23d of lafl month, to a force
so vastly superior, as entitles him to ihe high
est encomiums for his gallant refinance.
Important Intelligence.
A Handbill publilhed this afternoon by
the Editor of the Genera! Advertiser, informs
that the French Sloop of War l'Eveillee,
arrived at Norfolk the 1 ;th inft. which left
Rochfort the latter end of February,' and
brings intelligence of the retaking ps Valen
ciennes, & Fort Louis—the Austrian & Pruf
lian garrisons prisoners of war—also that
Conde had surrendered—that the French
were within a few miles of Mentz.
That the French Republic have 55 ih'ps of
the line ready for sea, from 74 to 130 guns—
that it was reported a suspension of hoftilitics
between France and Spain had taken placa
for 3 months—and that the rebellion of
Vendee was finally quelled.
When the hand-bill went to press the' Mi*
nifter of France had not received his dif-
patches.
~\y
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
A R R I V E D.
Ship India, AlTimead, Calcutta, 3 months
7 days
Brig Fair American, Angus, Antigua, 21
Molly, Lillibridge, Barbadoes, 25
Sloop Morning Star, Wharton, Virginia, 7
By the India, Captain afhmeaJ from
Calcutta, papers are received, which in
form, that Bencoolen was taken by the
French—and that the (h:j>Canton of this
port, was captured by a French privateer,
called the Dumourier, and ca.-ritd intp
the Isle of France, on fjfpicion of having
Englifti. property on boai d.
We hear a sloop is. arrived at Fort Mif
flin, from Antigun, being another cf the
vellels lately releal'ed'-hrre.
Gj* The Address to Miss ,is too
iucornS for publication.
C 3* The Addrcfs to " The Olferver,'
was prepared for this day's Gazette, but
unvoidably emitted for want of room. .
A FEW POUNDS
O F
VANILLA,
FOR.SALE By
Louis Ofmont.
April 19. - d3t.
(NO. 60 )
DiftriS of Pennsylvania, to <wit :
Be it remembered that
on the twelfth day of April in the eighteenth
year of the Independence of the United Stores
of America, Benjamin Davies of the said di£
tridl hath deposited in this office the title of a
map, the right whereof he claims &s propri
etor, in the words following, to wit;
4< A Ground plan of the City and Sub
il urbs of Philadelphia, taken from a&ual
" survey ; conra ; ning ah ex ast description
44 ot all the squares, streets and alleys in
" the City and Liberties j of the fituatioi
" of all ihe principal public buildings ; ot
" the rivulets, ai d as much of the Cana.
•' as lies within the cotnpafs of the draft,
11 by H. P. Folic : published by the Propri
" etor, Benjamin Davies."
In conformity to tlie ast of the Congress of
tiii- United States, entitled an ast for the en
couragement of learning, by fecurir.g the co
pies of maps, (harts and books to the author*
i d proprietors of fnch during th<
lines therein mentioned.
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Diltrn'tof i'ennfylvaoia.
April 9 w&se-w
NEW THEATRE.
ON MONDAY EVENING,
April 2 I.
Will be performed,
AnHiltorical TRAGEDY, written by
Shakel'peare, called
King Richard Ilk
To which will be added, " \
A COMIC OPERA
called
. The Son-in-Law.
J
- <,-'t/
Those pcrfons who
undertake tocuttimbei 01 wood of any kind
whatever, from any lauds of the teal (Hate of
the late Richard Stockton Esq. deceased, ii/
the v*cftemprecm& of the county of Somcifc)
inuhe ftatc of Jci fey, under a pretence ol
a right to cut a a lauds adj JCCnt, ate ivqueftcdr<
dtfift l»om so doing, or they will be proeeed
ed againil such mmuei as in*y prove tiou
bl !o;m- and expeulivc to (iumuivo.
April -A *w£:s2v
SJLES atKEH'-rORK, by A.L.
3LEF.CKER 'd SONS,
f\ ri-
On Thurfdiy the I «th May nrxt at Twelve
o'clock at the Tontine Coffee House,
T«E FOLLOWING
oj Land,
In \VJtkiru and Flint's onrchafe, «i» the coun
*tyx){ Tioga, state ot New York.
The containing acre s
Sonthweft quar. of No. 2, 9»4 2 4
No thwcft do. do. 4, 5-^47
N'ntheaft do. do. 6, 10,525
do. do. 7>
5 vthweft do do. 8, 3.95^
N* ;»r th we ft do. do. 8, 6,if?
s<>utheaft d;>. do. 9> 6,25:
: out.eaft do do. I" 1 , 9>- 53 '
<ort!i*eft do. do. 10, i" 5 ?47„'
70,52
val»
7°>s 21
Tbefelands are rapidly encreafing in valu ,
targe ft t elements. a»e already r»adc- in several
o r the town'fhip. j the gooclnel's of foil, and
the advantages in point of fit nation l»eing so
wH known-, render any further defci iption
uonecelfa r nip of the tratts and condi
tions of (ale may be seen at No. vo, Queen
street, New' York*
AqriJ iq
Just Imported,
In 'the Jhip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peter/burgh its RuJ/ia, and lltrw landing at
Ritffell's wharf,
HEMP,
BAR IRON,
RS'SMA SHKETINGS,
R \VtNS l>t'CK,
■ RUSSIA ttUCK,
And lor falc at the (t-rcsof the fubferiber in
Walput fticct, N 92.
John Donnaldfon.
Aor'l 4- di w w&>t*
The annual election
FOR
Dire&ors and a Treasurer
OF THE
:Library Company of Philadelphia,
, WlLLt,ehe»a at tin Library, in Fifth
on Monday the fifth .'of May jicxt, at
threeo clock in'the w.hen the trea
surer will attend to-receive the annual pay
ments. „
As there arefevera 1 fharcs on which fines
are N due, the owners of them, or their rep e
fentatives, are hereby notified, that rhey will
\>e forfeited, agreeably to ihe laws of the
;CoaT}pa})>, onlcfs the said arrears are paid off
on the fifth day of May ? or withiu ten days
a. te r.
By Older of the Directors.
BENJAMIN K. MORGAN,
Secretary
Ap'U 7 re& v 4 5th TVljv.
r " F OR SALE,
>1 7-
BY THE SUE^JRIBtR,
Old-Lisbon Wine of a
fuper'ior quality in p.ip .5, imported in the Ihip
"Wil Yiington.
•OI.D >.HERRY WINE of the firft quality
in quarte- caflc*, imported in the brig Nancy
fiwJny f> m Cadiz
ALJVIONDS and a few kegs of
R.AISINS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIFFE WINES,in pipes
hhdi. aid quarter cjik c , imported in the Ihip
Tndfmas, capt. Ski;»ner.
A few quarter caiks of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Wlio bai also, jnft arrived and tor sale
A SMALL.CARGO OF
v Lijbon Salt.
A quantity of empty BAGS for sale.
Apnl j. diw w&sim.
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends'and
the public, That from the encouragement
he has received, from several refpe&able Gentle,
men, he is iudiiccd once more, to embark in the
PAPER LINE —and would offer his feivi. es to
alt those Gentlemen, who can place confidenc
in him ;an c allures those who employ him,
that th. ir confidence shall not be mifpteced
but it (hall be his conllant endeavor, to pay the
ftrift/ft attention to then best interest, inall ne
gociations whoever. He has taken the Chamber
in Slate-Strret, over Mr. David Toncnjci.d, Watch
Makei's Shop.—-—Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES," of aW kinds, are bought and fold ; and
•where Com million Bufiucfp ot all kinds, will be
tranf.&ed on leafonabte terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be conftamly cxpofcd tor faie, on
eommiflion.
• Cash paid for Salem, Providence,
Portfmouih BILLS
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
Una-York. has any Bujinefs to tr/to fa ft at Bojlen,
in Paper tfegociaiions-, he will be happy to be em
ployed, on comm>]jion. •
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794.
IMPORTER
From Londj.i, D.iblin, and GlaljVow,
And ihjw tor lale,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, M.irket-Jireet,
A La ge a ill Vamabje
COLLECTION «>- BOOKS,
Among whitii are the following:
NEW Annual Remitter for 1792
European Magazine for the firft f»J
months of l 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the RomanEmpin
Alem >irs of the Ma-iciriter focietj, 3 vois.
Prieitly on matrer aud ,pirit
on Christianity
DiOiey's life of Dr. Jon in
D'Anville's ancle. t .geography
Vltiu 'ics of Guy J>>ji
Variety,a collection of e'lTuy,
King of PruiliVs *orks
Calm observer—by Mackintcfh
Kuifell's ancient and mode si Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly <;i!t
h ! gant extracts of natural hi lory
and 8» iir»n's voyage
Rov Inn's voyage to D^ada^iiftt^
To vnfend's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerusalem cielvered
Sinell e's translation of Button
Berwick's hiftoiy of quadrupeds
Btrffon abridged
History 0/birds
Piiill ps's history of inland navigation
Hoo ;>er's rational recreations
Hift>ry of France, in 3 vols.
Curi'-Hties of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Daw's history of Hiiuloftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to oolite literature.
Imlny's description of Kentucky
Pi efent "date o. Nova-Scoria
Preient ltate t>f Hudson's Bay '
Preftoii on masonry
Lavater on phvfiu ,nomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Mur,>!iy's lile of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
vi.fais of Secui dus
Gallery of portraits
volney's ruins of empires
-Tiavels
Vaillaint's trav«ls, with luperb engravings
D<>wnmart's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benin rfou on mater ialifin and ininia'erialifni
Be -child's advice to patriotic travelk?rf
Bu'lder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandan's hfe of Voltaic©
D • N 1 i's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grazier') description of China
Murphy's tr an flat on of Tacitus
Godwin on pol ticaljuftice
.Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helverius on man
K.iimes's (ketches of the history ol man
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Benignus
Vlawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse d»<stionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watfoi's ljfe of Philip-1 Id. & lild.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
"Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
1.
mail
kVa i a on tlie prevention of diseases
Via )-e'»j »ur- il in France
pax's travelsinto Denmark,Ruflia,Poland,&rc
Cox's (ravels into Switzerland
Rabant's bffltory of rhe French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Ma let's northern antiquities
jVI itderby's medical dictionary v
Grog's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pr4ltice of mid
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of phytic
Clegboru's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mufcies
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
A on dileafes of children
Qnincy's d fpenfatory
A: _ I I- -I: /■- .
;tli Mjv.
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan oil the aftlima
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Metfica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind oil the difeales of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Halter's pbyfiology
Spalanzane's dilTertations
London practice of physic
Bell's Airgery
Chautal's chemistry.
Just Imported,
la the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Ptterlhurg in Ruffe,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
UAVEN's PUCK,
KUSSIA BUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AMD FOR SALE BY
March 4,1794,
mwicftf
v.r ' )
V" *
•> V
;>■ . . j
OR SALfc t,
fobti Domtaldfon,
No. 22, Waluut-ftreet.
di\V3tawtf
TO BE SOLD,
And entered up«o the fir ft o May,
The noted EJlate, called
JobnJon Hall:
Lynw id the Ivioha wk country, state oF New
foik, formerly the (eat ol Sir William John
un, containing about seven hundred acres f>i
and, which is ot the very best quality ; togc
hcr with the stock, and terming utensils. The
are large and convenient, and fit for
gentleman's feat. The payments will be made
tafy, on good (ccurity. Forfuither particulars
uquire of George Metcalf, Esq. on the prcmif
of Silas Talbot, Esq. at Philadelphia, of
Samuel and Brothers, in New York, or
of the lublcnber in Providence.
Jabez Bo wen.
Philad. March 2j6, mw&fim
11 Je Ground Plan
V
City and Suburbs
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKBN FROM ACTUAL StTßrer.
IT is with pieafure thai the publilher has to
inform his fubfcribersand the public in gene
ral, that the plate >s now under the bands of
the engraver, and in greater forwardnefs than
was at fuft contemplated At the fame time
lie begs leave to r mind them, that fubferip
tion papers areftill open at most of the noted
book-stores in the city * and that he hopes
fcoin the whole of them to,be enabled t;o so m
luch a relpeftable catalogue cf iian.es, as will
do a credit to the work, as well as afford a
re tfonab'e encouragement to the under' ker.
* Thole who a edelirousof further info ina
tiJU are requeued to call on
Benjamin Davies
No. 68 y Market llreet.
Ap>i' 14. m&tn.tF
STATE 6F SOUTH-CAROLINA:
In the House of Representatives,
December 21 ft s 1793.
WHLREAS the Lomm.flioncrs of pu.ottc
Accounts, have reported, that they can
not vroceed to the in -cfligation of the'Treafury
A counts, rei'pe&ing special Indents, without
kriowiiigahe ouiftanding amount thereof inx:ii-
CuUtion -.—Therefore,
Refolded, That all holder* of special Indents
be dtrefcVd, and required, on or before ihc firfl
day of November next, to deliver the special In
dents in their 'pofTef&on to one or other of t!ie
Commiffi >ners ol the Tr< afuty, who are to give
receiots for the fame, and to report to (he Com
imlTi >jK-.rs on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
the w relpe&rvely rtceived, and ajfo to the Le
g nature, at their meeting in November next,
md thai.afpecial Indents not rendered into
the Treasury r aiiaye,.Qn or before the fitll day .
o* November next, faall behind theTajrte are
he 1 by barred.
Stfolvtd, That public notice of this refol ition
be given .n the k-Veial Gazettes in thi-s State,
once every three weeks, un il the fir ft day of
November next. And 'hat the DelefjStes of this
State in the Congress of t he United be re
queued to ca«fe thjs rcfolution to be. publrfhed
in one or moie papers in the cities of PhiladeK
phi a and New-York, and that provision will be
made lor the expences attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
•Seudte for their concirrenre.
By order of the House,
JOHN SANhORD DART, C.H.R.
■ In the SENATE*,
December 2 rft , 1793.
I Rtfolved, That this, House do concur wnh the
I Houle of Representatives in the foregoing refo-
I luhon<.
Ordered, That tfee resolutions be sent to the
Hoafe of Representatives.
'>*■ : -V
v I
by Order. of ihe Senate,
FELIX WARL'EY, Clerk
, » -
+wVNnv
Lately Published.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
THli Hiitory of Nrw-Hamplhirr, from ihe
Dtfcovery of the River Pifcataqua—by 7 t
r*i<A to/knap, D. D. 3 Vol.. Price in Boards
4 I 1 Dollars.
The Forrcftcr, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Cioihier.
Pice, 75 Cents.
A Dilcourfe, intended to commemorate the
Discovery ot America by Chiiftophcr Colum
bus ; delivered at the request of the Hiltorical
society 111 MaiTaehufetts, Oflober 23d, i 7q2
being the couplet on of the Thud Cemoiy'
(nice that memorable event. To which are
r d i dc i' F " Ur comiefltd with the
lubjtfl— By the fame author. Puce, 50 Cmis
' M,rch '?• t'u.flgMw
':
St. Domingo Sufferers.
THOSE perfous who undertook to collect
the sub cription made for the relief of the a.
bove unto tunate persons, are reqirelted to
complete! their returns, where thev have, not
aheadydoae it, and to deliver the fame with
they ma, b»M, in to the funds of
tile I rcofurer, who w.ll re. eve. any fabferip
tion which remains uncollected, or any f.efh
donation. It is hoped instant attention WiS
bepaid to tjm notice, to enable the commit
tee of difti, but, on to close tbeir accounts and
gmofiirther relief to a „uml>e, of thole per.
Z,*s£ZT 8 he,e - r — »
By order of the committee of diftribntion,
Robert Smith, Treasurer.
P. s. It is requeued the diflkrent P,inters
; will lar a few <l»vs, publWk th* above.
OF THE
OF
A FEW BAK( i'.LS OF
POTATOES,
Well picked, out of a very large quauutv—•
AND A FEW
Tierces of Rice,
/ »
FOR SALE BY
Louis Ofmorttp
No, 117, north Seeoad street.
April 17. dtf
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Houses or Public
Officts,
Two brick 3 story Houses,
H AVING 6 100 ms m C4ch, with fact places
betide garrers, iituaie on the fouih wtllerJy fide
ot Dock ttrcet, between Pear and Walnut
ftre'eu. JEnquiieof
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
tutb&stf
April 1 7
Treasury Department.
Revalue Office, April lbth, 1754. '
Communications by pest or
otherwise. will b rcCeiveci by v-av of i n j or
marion ai the Office oi the CominiflJ oner of
the Revenue fiom per funs .willing t Q supply ;l on
Cannon, Cannon galj, and Shells, f or ift e for
nficaiions and Snips of War. The „f
the metal for cannon, and ihe capaci-l of ifi C
founders in fineltjiig, in pit-paring an g , nix C
mg the metal, aud 11, c-iftlna a ur i bonm, tfic
cannon (which a,e to be c„(t JUidi)) will , c .
.quire to be par .iculaily stated.
Similar c mmunUati »ns will also be retir
ed ftQin any per funs willing, to kippiy |, V J
oak and red ce.iar limber for the conftrtift on
of ihe Ihipsff" war. D Herent p| ans D |
curing and supplying the fame may be propos
ed. The con v. i.k ice of the fi:ua ion i n re
ga.d to navigation, and the (late of the timber
whether already fallen or hereafter 10 be cut
will require to be noticed.
All the necefiary particulars in reg»cd to •
the.feveral^r;iCi's which are wanted, will be
fpecified ir. c< nti atftsjimr-nded to be grounded
in part on the infornu tion. which is hereby#
fou<r
April ij.
Louis Ofmont,
Has removed from N.'. 40, north Thud fttcci,
to No. 117, r onh Second street, l»tiwec«
Arch and Htci streets, in those ftorrt latrly
occupied by Mr. Starman, oppeft c 10 Mcfi'rs
J. W. and \V. w her he keeps his
Wholesale W rcheufe, lo> the 'ale-cf ail
(oris ot GOODS» v and the tranfatiion of all
commifiio.. Bufim f*. and
Has_ now far 5a!.", m
White silk stockings,
High dir-IT-d Jkngiiih fafhion
A box of Fiench pomatum
Hanging Paper oi'the bv.ll patterns and co- 1
lours
A few pieces ofLong Ljwds
An invoice of Saimi Cloaks, which on ac
count of the feafou wij) be fold low and at a
long rfdit
Champaign Wmr 6 years old
A few pipes Liib >n Wine
Do. do. P »rt Wme
Do. do. Madeira
Some Calcavrlla Wine
Burgundy \ylnc aud Claret.
ApnJ 17.
PIRACY!
fcr THE fchnooer DELIGHT, the pro
peitywf Minn 1 Antonio Martin, of the- If
la id of Bona Vilta, was on the 18th of Oc
tober laft.wJiift IvUijj at anchor in the ;ond o#
thai I/land, fi»icibiv entered and carrier! <ff
by JOHN DUNHAM, JOHN MURRAY, a
man by the name of DODGE, and one othtr
person, name unknown—This vcll'ei was fold
to M. A. Martin, bv William M'Neill,- »bo
came to B<ma Villa in her, from Madeira.—
She was built in the countv of Matthews,
ft.ue of Vifgi iia, and was regtftered at New-
York, the 16th April, 1793 —Her name was
p in ed on her Hern—Her dimerfnn- a fnl
lows: $6 feet 6 inches keel, 46 feet 6 1 icl es
bean, hold 6 feet a inches, her burthen 54
tons.
At the time of iheir entering tie vefiel,
there was a black man 011 board by ihe name
of Balthazer, whom, they carried oft with thrm.
•John Dunham was mate of the vefll-I under
Capt. M'Nei-11, prior to the sale of her, and
tie other persons were Dunham
is a married man, and fias a family at Nan
tucket.
The cargo of the veiTc] canftfted of the fol
-1 jwing arucles.—2 cafe's containing 74 pieces
Linen; cafe Wi, ,e-GlafTe< ; 1 bale com Siting
g pieces liroadcjoth ; 1 do. 9 d». 79 pieces
Cotton, (needie worked) 1 -—33 do. do inferior,
2 nr>ys of Sak • (he had seven final! arias and
lb me piifcols.
it any peifwii can give any iihtoigns-tjon of
thu veflel, or any part of that
i< e?n be recovered, or
°4 julite, they are rcqfcfled to iof.-rm'McttVs.
JOSEITI ANT HOOT and §. IMj « Phi!ad?'phia ;
Mur-h ay aiid«TuM*o*D, Niw.'Y rrk ; Cl./rifK
a'jd fJio.HTi NGALt, Providence ; or Hiau
*nd A mok-y, Boston.
Mar oil 17,
PHILADELPHIA:
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 3,
South Fourtk-Street.
■V
t"t &S2W.
<diw