. •• ' -"... - - Ml
'EVENING AD V E R T I S E R.
[No. 158 of Vol. V.] Friday, May 25, 1794. [Whole No. 554-J
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
bay MAHQGANY ami WjLH
BURR stonl^
for sale by
G.urney and Smith.
May i -
•—~JAMAICA RUM,
r ,vmNG at Hamilton's »hart, above
ot 7 the BAfCHtf : s
...A, l""" 1 Jamaica,
cpt. SM J Br
PETER BLIGHT.
, d
May '»
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Ma> ket-Strect,
An EfTay on Slavery,
Ocliencrt to cxmhit in a new-point ot view
; M 611 mi,Of, inlujlry, and the pcaci el
teatS. "if »atts and calculations are oitocd
(o'oKve tlif labor nfj'umen to be modi mote
firod-jfwe. than that oi Jlaves ; that coumtigt are
neb, powerful and happy, inproDpytioii as the
people enjoy WTTVutt' of tffefr own
ltljor ; and bc>c< toe nctflaty conclulion, that
finer v.* ivpM"" as wrl -' s «v»/-
25 Cents. dt*
f4>rfil'V
Dr. Moore's Journal in France,
1 volume %d.
This Day is publijhed,
Price 6 . Hitched, >d 7/6 nea'lv bound, by
H. & P. RICE,
Bookfel'ers, No. 50, Market Jireet,
A Journal during a reftdc'iiee in Fiance,
from the begin ing <>f Augull to the middle ot
December 1792 ; To which is added, an ac
count of 111- 110 ft rerankable events that
happened a- Paris, tVotn that tnne 10 the death
of the laic King of France.
By JOHN MOORE, M. D.
May 17
City of Washington.
THt Su'jfcribers to the Articlesof Agree
\ nent of "the Columbian Society" are re
qucfted to meet at Mr. Richardet's Tavern
in the city of Phr'a 'elpVa, on Monday *h e
26th day of the present month, at 12 o'clock
in order o choose a board of Managers, &c.
in cons with the 9th article of their a
greement.
James Greenleaf
N. B. Dinner w I b ordered on the Table
at 3 o'clock for fuel) of the Sii'lijVH&ers as
rtiav coo lie to pals a facial hour after the
Bufmefj of the day is finifhed.
May 5
Ccngrefs of the United States,
"in Senate, Tuefilay May \yh, 1794.
OTIDE>I£I)t that Rtffu* Putnam, Ma.iai
fah Cutler, Robert Oliver and Griffin
Green, do, upon the third Monday of Decem
ber next, lhe\v cause to the Senate, why so
much of tbj grants of land to them tbe said
Rat'us Putnam, Manaffah Cutler, Robert
Olivei and Griffin Gieen, pursuant to an Ast
eniitUd "An act authorizing the grant and
conveyance ofc-i tain lands to the Ohio Com
pany'of a^^ociates,' , (hall not he declared
void, as may interfere with and be fufficient
to fatisfy the claims of the French settlers
at G.nlliopolis.
Ordered, that the delivery of a copv of
the above order to Ru us Putnam, Mafia (Tali
Cutler, Roocrt Oliver, or Griffin Creen, and
the publication of the fame, one month, in
one of the Gazettes printed in this City, lhall
be deem d fufficient notice theieof.
Extract from the Journals of Senate.
Attest,
SANt. A. OTIS, secretary.
May 14. 1 111 •
* REMAINING
OF THE
Ship India's Cargo,
FROM
BENGAL.
A small aflortment of
BALE GOODS,
253 bags COTTON of good quality, which
would probably make an excellent remit
tance to Europe, and a
Quantity of PEPPER
For Sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Who has also to dispose of
Barcelora Hand'fs. in boxes,
Holland Gin in cases,
Souchong, Hyson, and Tonkay Tea,
A quantity of Brimstone, Sec.
May jo d3 w
For LONDON,
WILLIAM PENN,
NOW lying at Jefle and Robert Wain's
•wharf, to Sail -»vith all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage, apply to
JOHN FIELD <3 SON,
Or,
JESSE & ROBERT WALN.
May 13. cjcf
For St. Croix,
INDUSTRY,
L.~osa Wharton, Mailer.
SHE is intended to fail with the firft vefTcls
and can accommodate a few pafTcngers very
well. For terms apply to the CarTtain, or
WHARTON & GREEVES.
May 19. d6t
For Fredericklburgh and Fal
mouth, Virginia,
Schooner
Mr. FRIENDSHIP,
Capt. (M'Namara.
Will fa i .in WtiJNiCiiOA K next. For fieiglit
or apply .0 ihe Maiter on bi aid, at
JOHN WALN'i Wharf, or
EMANUEL WALKEJL,
WHO HAS FOR SAI.E
The Cargo offaid V-cjftl —Conjijling of
VIRGINIA WHI-.ATi
FLOUts,
DE .11 MCINS, tcc.
GINSENG
May 17 d 4*.
For Sale or Charter,
2 ANDROMACHE,
(An American bottom )
*tt~ John Maare, MaJler.
IS a it jut, g.i.xl veu'. , aouut iwo yeai s old,
bui wii;., 232 too , hat only made, thiee. voy
ages, nl.iy be eit to fta at a (in»l ex
(jcoce. Sue maybe leen at Vme-ltieet wharfi
and the terms made k fowii by apj>l»c.itt 11 to
WHARTON d LEWIS.
March ti. dti
Diitrict of Pennsylvania
TO IV I T
that o» the
' twe »ty fourcn day ;t March, in
t'ie eighteenth yea- of the ixiep. udence ot the
U :itcdStares ot Ame« ica, EBENtZbR Hazard
of "the aid dMtr»£t', »asdepoiiced in t iis <»ince,
the tit e M'a. ojok,th«i i ght wnereirt declaims
as aut 10 , in t ie word ; toilowfng/tq \tfit :
44 Hilt.', cal C • ledlions ; conlittmgof state
papers, and ocner autne.itic documents; in
tended as materials for an history ot the U
nited states of Am rica.
By KBENEZER HAZARD, A.M.
Member of the American Phiiofophical So
ciety, held at Philadelphia, tor promoting
ufeful knowledge; Fellow ot* the American
academy of A"ts and Sciences; and corref
pondent member of the Maffachuletts Histo
rical Society.
VOLUME 11.
Ingenium, Pietas, Artes, ac bellica virtus,
Hue profugse venient, et Regna illullria
condent,
Et Doiniua nic Virtus erit, et Fortuna mi
niftra/'•
In conformity to the ast of the Congress of
the United State*, entitled " An a<st tor the
eucouragement of learning, by securing tne
copies of maps, charts and books, to the au
thors and proprietors of I'uch copies, during
ihe times thereto mentioned "
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the D'tflrift of Pennsylvania.
Ma, 7 _ ew i'"l_
To the Electors of the city and
county of Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
THIS being the lad year of the prcfent
Sheriff's time in office. I take the liber
tv to offer myfelf a Candidate, and solicit
vour votes and interests in my favor, to plane
me on the return at the next general Ele&.on,
as his fucceifor for said office; in doing which,
1 you will confer an obligation that will be
- gratefully remembered, by
Your most obedient,
and humble servant,
JOHN BAKER.
May 3. estf.
NOTICE.
THE OFFICE of the Secretary of State is
removed from H;gh Street, to the New Build
ings, ihe comer of Sixth & Mulberry streets.
May 15 '»
Excellent CLARET,
In brfjHhcaos and in cases of 50 bottles each.
a l so,
A few cases Ghampaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,,
In pipes, and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. til, South Front ltreec.
Jan. 2, 1794.
Scheme of a Lottery,
To rajfe 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, deducting 15 per Cent. from
the Prizes—this Lottery conjijls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
14,539 Prices and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE DiVe&ors of the Society for eflabiifhing
Uicfifl Manufa&urcs, having relolved to
ere & LOTTEK lES for railing One Hundred
Thousand Doll ar s, agreeably to an A& of
the Lr;;.'fi ure of the St. te ot New-je?fcy, h-ve
anpoin;ed the following persons to fbpemrtend
a«4 direct 'he drawing ot the fame. viz. Nicho
las Low, Rufus K'ng, Herman L Roy, James
Wat lon, Richard Harrifun, Abtjah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of thfe city ol New-Y<>tk~
Thomas Willing, joseph Ball, Matthew M'Con
ne; and Andrew bayard, of the tiry of Phila
delphia— Hts Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
Elias Bondinof, General El as Davton, Jam s
John Bayard, Do&rr Lewis Donham,
Samn. f W. S"v»ckton, Jolhua M. WalLce. Joseph
Bloomficld, and Elifha Boudmot, of N w- Jpjj.
fey, who oifei the following Scheme of a Lot
tery, and pledge thetnfelvcs to the public, that
they will nke every aflfurance and precaution in
t'lcir power lo have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from time to time, as received, into
the Hanks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for the purpofcof paying Ptiz s, which
(hall be immediately discharged by a chcck
npot) one of lb- Bj"'ks.
S C H E M E:
x Prise of 20,000 Dol.ars is 20,000
i 10,000 10, coo
5> 000 10,000
5 2,000 10,000
1J 1 ;COO IC,OOC
20 #oq i<*,ooo
1 GO 100 IO,OCO
300 50 15*000
1000 20 20,000
eooo 15 30,000
3000 1 36,000
8100 10 81,000
1 4,539 Prizes. 262,000
23,461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Last drawn number, 2,000
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is. 266.000
The drawing will commence, under the m
fpc£tion of a Committee of the Superintendents,
as loon as rhe Tickets arc fold,ot which ttmeiy
nonce will be given.
The Supcrintendants have appointed John N.
Camming, of Newark, Jacob R. H*rdenbcig*
of New-Biunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, o
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample fecuiity lor discharging the
trust rcpoftd in them.
(£3** In order to fecurethe pun&ual payment
of the Prizes, the Supcrintendantsof the. Lottery
have dire£ted that trie Managers Iriall each enier
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four lufhcient
fecuritit s, to perform their inftruftions, the fub
ila nee of which is
I. That whenever cither of the Managers
lhall receive the sum of Three Hundred Doiuyj,
f he fhail imnidiately place thefame in one <>f the
. Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit of the Governor of the Society, and luch
ul the Superin:endai»ts as live ih the city where
r the monies air placed, to remain there Until the
' Lottery is drawn, for the paymnt of the Prizes.
11. The Managers to take fufficient iecuiity
for any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
relponiible for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
i~ Monies received and paid in'O the Bank, ab
rifts of which (hail be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of,the Society.
Paterfoh, January 1, 1794.
. On application to either of the above gentle
men, information-will ibe given where tickets
" may he had.
February 24. tu&ftf.
> Just Imported,
hi tht jb'tp Abigail, Captain Horton, from S
Peter/burgh in Rufia, and now landing a
RltfiirJ avba'rf,
HEMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And (or fa!e ai the (lores of the fubfetiber i
\ 5 Wainui lticcr, N<>. 22.
John Donnaldfon.
April 4. w&>tf
AMERICA.
NASSAU, (N. P.) April i.
If we art to form any judgment of the
c mdu£t that will be adopted bv the Ame
rican Congress, from the language used
very generally in the southern Hates, it
wWd appear that a Tupture between
England and America is alrnoft certain.
Should such an event really take place
—and that it may not, mull be the wilh
of every real friend to either nation
we may '.'xpedt to fee the manners of the
French Republicans ftriftly copied in A
merica ; and revolutionary tribunals, guil
lotines, with all the other paraphernalia
of French liberty, become as common in
the one country, as they are now in the
other.
It is said that an expedition is aftnally
undertaking againtt New-Oileans from
Kentuckey, and that 6000 men are em
ployed on it.
It is also surmised, that some of the
French frigates which lately arrived in
the Chesapeake are to co operate in thii
enterprise, and may daily be expefted'to
make their appearance at the mouth of the
Miffifippi.
April 4.
Notwithstanding the extreme violence
of many people in the Southern states, and
the attachment they avow for the French
Republic— it is with difficulty that
a cool dispassionate obfervercan bring him
felf to regard war bet ween England and
America, as an event within the fcope.of
probability, 1
Cut bone ? What good can possibly re
sult to America from such a situation ?
None—but on the contrary, every ill tliat
ought to be guarded against by a nation
whose people are chiefly employed iii agri
culture, the filheries, and commerce.
On the part of there is evk'en'.y
a dilpofition to cultivate a good undtrftaud
j ing with America. The revocation oJ the
inuruftions of November 6th, is a frelh
proof of it; and it is more than probable
that this was done in coufeqnence of repre
sentations from the American minilter at
our court.
A true politician fuffers no resentments to
enter into his system—with him the invaria
ble object of puri'uit is what can belt advailce
the intereftß of his constituents ; and war, as
being uniformly unprofitable, he never has
recourse to, when it can be avoided wkti any
appearance of attention to national dignity.
One of the advantages, which the original
proje&ors of the reparation of the British
colonics from the mo.iier country promised
to themfeives, was the being thereby pre
cluded from all hazard of bjing involved in
the wars of the Emopean powers ; and th(is,
alcof from, and un on erned in the politic*
and intrigues of the old world, enabled to
cultivate tne arts of peace in perfedt fecurily,
and to afford an asylum to the opprefied and
dift effed-of every other nation.
But all this profpecft of human felicitv, so
flattering to the mind of the philan.hrophlit,
must at once be done aw ay,fhould America
be drawn into the pr;f,.nt war between France
and her powerful enemies. And in return
' for this iacrifice, what can France give ?
UNITED STATES.
WILMINGTON, May 14.
| We are favored by the copy of a letter
E from a refpeftible young gentk'man, in
St. Vincents, to his father in this town,
dated April 9, wherein he mentions his
s " visit to the Botanical Garden, and in
glowing colours describes the he
felt on beholding the bread-fruit-tree of
Otaheite, paiticularly dcfcribed by the
late Capt. Cook, likewise the apple-tree,
offaid Island, in full bloom. Inafcout 18
months,the bread-fruit-treCwill bear ; and
all the hopes that were entertained by that
once famed circi mnaviator,of the great
use and comforts of life that might be de
rived from its introduction to th,fe climes,
will be realized.— All the return we can
n make to his menjery, is the greatful tri
bute of a tear.
" The trees whose bark yields both
kinds of cinnamm>, are alio heic; they <f
leaves of which are fuffiriently strong to
»nfvr<r every purpose of cookery. The
eamphire tree, and the ftitub that produc
es tha clove, are herewin perfection ; but.
It range to tell, the nutmeg will not thrive.
" The sago-tree is also in high cultiva
tion, and many produ&ions of the East,
are nurtured here in abundauce.
" The attention that has beeri paid to
tranfpla it in thefe> countries, the luxuries
of the f/i't, has even extended to the tri
fling nutter of a particular flower, with
which the women of Otaheite decorate
themfelvcs a: dances; which Jemon({rates
that the Wettern Hemisphere is as conge
nial to the production, of luxury,- as any
itland in the Eaftetn ocean."
From the Baltimore Daily Advertifcr»
To the Citizens of the United States
of America.
Fellow Giruztrsj
THE mailer's arid mates of vefTe'.s, be
longing to the port of Baltimore, having
fublcribed a resolution not to proceed to lea,
until they can do so without apprehenftons
of insult aud robbery ; anJ having appoint
ed us a committee to prepare a circular letter
for their juflifkatidn in the eyes of their
fallow citiien , We beg leave 10 call your at
tention to the following remark*, which we
flatter oufelves will not only rescue us from
the imputation of being ralh and intemper
ate, but will secure to us the approbation
and esteem of those who have a feeling for
the honor of their -country and sympathy
sol- the fufferirigs of its citizens.
To feafaring men it must be unneceflary
to describe the difference between our fitua
tioti and that of the other citizens of Ameri
ca, but as we are desirous of approbation and
support from those who have not had equal
opportunities of alcertaining this difference,
we intreat them to consider that we exerjife
Our profeflion upon an ocean not the pro
perty of an individual,or of one nation, but of
all the inhabitants of the globe; that conse
quently, those laws of all governments,
which proteil their citizens from a<£ls of vi
olence and injustice, extend not to us. We
cannot be aided or protected in any other
manner than by the laws, which nations have
agreed lhall be considered as rules lor their
condufi, and by the attention of our own
government, to observe that tbfefc rules are
never deviated from to the prejudice of its
citizeD9, with impunity. When governments
tefufe or neglect this protection, fnarjjiers
mull change their profeflion, or in the pur
suit of it, must submit to. : indignities, which
would render ther,'l unworthy the appellation
of men, much less that of Americans—We
consider ourftlves as placed, in this situation,
and we Dial] be believed, when we declare
that we have seen the American FLg treated
with every indignity that it was potlible for
the imaginations of men, regardlefa of honor
or hui ianity to devile ; l'ome of us have fern,
and all of us believe that the Flag of our
country, has repeatedly been reversed oh
board of American veflels, by the com
manders not only of British privateers, but
of British (hips of war. We have seen our
comrades of the sea deprived in different
parts of the British dominions, of their all,
and in some inftancts obliged to beg, even
of thole who robbed them, for support. It
is known to our government, that many va
luable citizens have been loft to their coun
try by the captures of the Algerines ; and
it appears to be believed by all, that the fame
nation which insults us in the Weft-Indies,
has been instrumental in Jetting loose those
barbarians.
We (hall not be acctifed of proceeding
without taking time to deliberate when it is
known that our fufferings commenced above
H year past, and that they have increased with
a regularity, and have been submitted to with
tamenefs ; which occasions us to be appre
hensive, that our government considers their
seamen as a class of citizetis unworthy of
their protection. We are not conscious of
having merited such a character, on the con
trary, we will not fuffer it to be said, and we
trust it will not even be believed by those
who know us, that we are exceeded in pa
triotism by any of our countrymen. We
feel all that enthusiastic affection for our
country and reverence for its laws, which
cliaraclerifes the American—we are willing
to make facrifices for the promotion of its
welfare, rnd we are ready with our lives to
aid in repelling those ads of rapine and in
juft.ee, which ltrike deep at its reputation as
a natlr.ll.
Altho* an embargo effectually prevent,
seamen from theexercife of their profeffion.
yet we with the jnoft sincere fatisfaction
Taw the raeafure adopted by our govern-
\\ e know that the injury of being
so long unemgloyed, would to men of our
moderate fortunes be serious indeed, but we
th " ;t „was our duty to submit to
a partial fefinfife for the attainment of those
advantages, which we should derive, from
having our rights ascertained, and from be
ing permitted to pursue with fafety, the only
business of which we had an v knowledge.
Calculating therefore that America would
hav: latisfa&ion for the insults (he had re
ceived, before she wonld relax in the tnea
•T tt T >D ted iwe have learned
with an aftonifument, not to be described
that the embargo is to expire on the 25th
and tfiat i{ is <xpe£ie& of us that we
are to proceed to sea unarrtied, exposed to
the malice of Britifli privateers arid frigates
armed, and commanded by niifcrearits, whose
only rule of ripJt is the extent of their pow
er.
We flatter ourselves that we fliall evr
ready tt> step forth in -defence of the honor
and interefta of our conn try, but we dare
not face dangers where neither the one nor
the Other is concerned, and wliers y:-e risk
not only our personal fafety, but the leaving
destitute of protestors, our wives and fami
lies—lf we are to be plurigcd into a hopeless
captivity at Algiers—or deprived of our
property and liberty, Contrary to the laws of
nations, by the Britift, and do not receive
the aid of our government, we f&rely will
not be cerifured in declaring, that we consi
der ourselves as wholly thrown from its pro
tection j and that therefore we dare not ven
ture to lea in unarmed vcfftls, having no
other protection than papers of the United
States, until fame favorable alteration make
it prudent for us so to do; or uijtil we are
driven by dire necessity to stake even our
liberty in the attempt, however doubtful,
the success of providing for our families—
• Having thus Hated the reafoiw for our zfio
ciation, which we hope will receive the ap
probation of our countrymen, it only re
mains for us to add that its continuance will
depend on circumstances, at preient doubt
ful in their iflue—we (hall tlot consider our
selves liable to censure if when those cir
cumstances are known, a majority of those
who have aflociated, ftio.uld deem it proper
that this agreement should no longer be in
force.
THE COMMITTEE.
For the Gazette of the Unitep St.itcs.
Mr. Fen-no,
The Bruflels Gazette is very inquisitive
or a proper chara&er to fill the place of
Second Envoy Extra Extraordinary to
Dreat Britain. Where is the puzzle ?
Let the Demo Club fend an Apoltle.—
Viany advantages besides clubbing that
country would t ufue : They- could {how
hat we are in very sober eatneft. For
Vlr. Jay reprcfsnts only the corrupt gang
)f the Funding Knights. Being a la'.r
-fer he is entangled in chicane. It would
lot be hard to find one of the Club who
s free from all ties, and of course would
with both hands at liberty. Thus the
Englishmen would have a plea taken out
ijf their mouths, viz. That Mr. Jay is
not to be minded inasmuch as the Club
have resolved again ft his going, they
would otherwise pretend that no mortal
can tell who has the upper hand here, the
R.eprefentative Government or the Cfub.
Send two men, one from each, you put
an end to that fort of prattle. You may
take them in by fending an Englilhman,
one that knows all their tricks—such a
one as they know from former experience
to be notorionfly worthy of trnfl and
confidence. You may have indeed your
pick and choose between two at lead of
undoubted charader. Further, you may
let them draw lots for the place—for fend
the one or the other, every body knows
that it is not in the power of Britain to
corrupt the principles of either. Send
the one or the othei, we may fay, Courts
we defy you to throw a spot on their pi i„.
ciples, or to change our estimation of
them.
The public fcrvice will not fuffer by
the absence of one of them, as the other
will be Sufficient to fee every thing made
ready for the people to rife in a mass as
fll - aU bc tl,ou S ht P ro per by
the Club to give orders for that purpofij.
theatre.
OBSERVER No. XVI.
Mr. Fenno,
TJc Obfmer ret,,™, his unfeigned
urn! j'• P S who some tim <" fmce,
publilhed m your Gazette some obfe.va
tions refpetting him ; he will always be
happy to attract their notice ; if they ap.
plaud, noreafon for hi, pleadable fen.
lat.ons need be g, ven ,if they condem
ne will attempt to profit by it. A hint
to the writer of some Theatrical obferva
nefda'laft! GC " eral AdVCrtifer of Wed-
C ° 1 r En , i n. g ' V ' n " the of
Calais an Enghfh dress, i s thought by
many good judges to have improved the
ong.nal in general, more particularly the
pa« e xhl b,ted by the cLafter of £a
Glotre ; and the person who trauflateH Za
H?. ,h « S3
•tlttr will probably rnift h» oblratb',
and carefully read the two origin als before
he cruelly condemns.
The Observer was much obliged by
Mr. Chalmers's exertions on Wednelday
evening ; they were such as were expeited
from an accomplished Theatric eLa rafter;
and the expectations of the audience tho'
great, weie in his performances gratified;
much however cannot be said in favor of
the exhibition of (he Well-Indian ift ere
neral, part was omitted, and Mfs IVillems
had not fufficiently committed her part to
memory. The part of Louifu in that ex
cellent play, is so important that too much
attention could not be paid to it ; Miss
Wilknfs is too much a favorite with the Ob
server to induce his silence on this occasi
on ; (he mufl be mistress of her part, or it
Is impossible to please.
Several clafles or descriptions of people
attend the Theatre : Oue class, are good
judges of the author's meaning, and altho'
they perfectly undedland what the a£tion
ought to be, yet are not the most difficult
to please j their approbation however is
highly to be prized: another class is so
vastly refined, that their nerves would be
in danger from propriety of attion, or
speaking, as it would contain too much
coarseness and vulgarity ; ten to one but
such people are not pleased, or if they
you ought to be afhamcd of it: Another
class are fatisfied with nothing but rough
scenes, this is owing to want of educati
on ; but rely upon it when they are pleas
ed, the a£lor has done his part tolerably
well to fay no more of it j a fourth divisi
on are determined not to be much pleased,
" though it may befofofor an American
exhibition, yet when compared to Euro,
pean, why you know it would not be ex
pe&ed, &c. &c." A fifth description are
honed American Republicans, and deter
mined to like every thing; if this class are
not the belt critics, they form much the
happiest part of the audience : a lixth fort,
have no opinion, but follow the fafhion or
what they suppose to be so; if a man or
woman who has been in Europe fays good
or bad, Ihrugs the fiioulders, or smiles,
they ast accordingly : You Players have a
talk to please all these—and yet you must
do it—if you can.
May 23.
JuSn
CONGRESS.
IN SENATE,
Monday, May 12th, 1794.
( Concluded. J
A meflage in writing, was received
from the President of the United States,
by Mr. Dandridge his Secretary.
United States, May 12th, 1794.
Gentlemen of 'the Senate, and of the
House of Representatives.
AS the letter, which I forwarded to
Congress on the 15th day of April last,
from the Minister Plenipotentiary of his
Britannic Majesty, to the Secretary of
State, ltT answer to a memorial of our
Minister in Xjondon, related to a very in
teresting fubjeift, I thought it proper not
to delay its communication. But, since
that time, the memorial itfelf, has been
■received in a letter from our Minister,
and a reply has been made to that an-
Uver by the Secretary of State. Copies
of them are, therefore, now transmitted.
I also fend the copy of a letter from
the Governor of Rhode-Island, enclofino
an Ast of the Legislature of that State',
impowering the United States to hold
lands within the fame for the purpose of
eredhng fortiheations ; and certain papers
concerning patents for the donation lands
to the ancient settlers of Vincennes upor
the Wabaih. y
CL
*■
The message and papers therein refer
red to were read.
Ordered, That they lie for coniidera
tion.
«, gro< [ e r ln addl ' tion to the
t.M fo i: mak 'ng further and more effec
tual provision for the protedion of the
.rstir u ™ ,eds -r""** d
effectual provision for the protection nf
the frontiers of the United States."
Ordered, That the Secretary deiire the
concurrence of the House o/rc J
tatnes in this bill.
natTS C len C % Pres s r nt laid before tlle Se
"e a « tter I'gned Jacob Morgan, Chair
'° f C °"S>-<fs, endofing « Resolution"
G. WASHINGT6N.
' of a meeting of number of the Manufac
turers of the City of Philadelphia, re
-fpeding a further revenue by an excifc
upon certain domiftic manufactures, as
contemplated by the House of Rrprefen
tatives of Congress."
On motion, That these' Rcfolutions be
read. >
It pafled in the affirmative—Yea* 14.
—Nays 10.
'i lie yeas and nays being required by
one firth of the Senators prefen?. 7
who voted in the affirmative, "
arc, *
MeflVs. Brown, Burr, Edwards, Fof.
?' ? Unn *T - ' nS ' H «"7. Jackson,
Langdon, Mai tin, Monroe, Potts, Ro
biniari, and Rofs.
J1 hose who voted in the'negative, are,
MeflVs. Brautord, Butler,. Cabot, Ellf
worth, Prelinghuyfen, I/.ard, Kin<r, Li
veimoie, Morns, and Rutherfurd.
On th? refoluti-on being read, a motion
was made as follows :
" A paper iigned Jacob Morgan, Chair,
man, having been read, and the fame ap.
pea ring to be difrefpectful to the Senate
ordered, that the fame be difmifl'ed '
On which the previous queftioii was
moved for, to wit,
Shall the main question be now put >
and
It pafled in the affirmative—Yens 1 c_
Nays 5.
I'f s" eas "ays being required by
one fifth of the Senators present j
Those wfefl voted in tlu affinitive, are,
MefTrs. Bradford, Brown, Ewier, Cabot,
L.lnvorth, Foster, Frclmghuyfen, Gunn,
Henry, Izard, King, Live&ipre, Morris,
Potts, and Rutherfurd*
Thofe'who voted in Hiefcegaitivc, are
MeflVs. Butler, Edwards, Hawkins, Jack.
lon, Langdon, Martin, Monroe, Robin
ion, and Rofs.
On motion to agree to the main quef
tioii »
li pafled in the affirmative— Yeas Je_
Nays 9. J
The yeas and nays being requested by
one fifth of the Senators present;
Those who voted in the affirmative, are,
Mefirs. Bradford, Butler, Cabot, Ellf
warth, Foster, Frelinghuyfen,Gunn, Haw.
kins, Henry, Izard, King, Livermore,
Morris, Potts, and Rutherford.
Those who voted in the negative, are,
MeflVs. Brown, Burr, Edwards, Jackson,
Langdon, Martin, Monroe, kobinion,
and Rofs.
So it was,
Ordered, That a paper signed Jacob
Morgan, Chairman, having been read, and
the fame appearing difrefpcdful to the
Senate, that the fame be difmifTed.
Mr. Foster reported from the commit
tee on enrolled bills that they had this
day, laid before the President of the Unit
ed States, the bill, entitled, " All ad to
erect a light-house on the head land of
Cape Hatteras, and a lighted beacon on
Shell-Castle Island in the haibor of Occa
cock in the state of North-Carolina.
On motion,
r Plnt « ,» * (• 1 » T\' 1
That the memorial of Mr. Pincknq
;he answer of Mr. Hammond, and the
letter of the Secretary of State of the ift
of May to Mr. Hammond retativs to the
britifli inftruftions of the Bth Jaile last,
be printed for the life of the Senate.
After the consideration of the executive
biifmefs,
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
UNITED STATES.
BALTIMORE May 20.
1 ExtraS of a Letter from a gentleman in
\ Cork to his correfpmdent in this town.
Cork, February 6, 1794.
I came here two d.iy« ago on account
of an American brig, the Hannah, of Ken
nebeck, William Springer, master, from
Bourdeaux to Philadelphia, with 280
pipes of brandy, beingfeized here by the
lieutenant-governor, under prtence ofinfor
mation being given him, that the cargo
was (hipped by, and is the property of the
National Convention. I have wri'.en to
Thomas Pinckney, Esq. Envoy at Lon
don, on this matter, in order that he may
apply to the mini (try; and 1 requeftthat
thou wilt be so kind as to communicate it
to the Piefident or his Secretary, as I have
reafoo to think the brandy is for Congress.
It is consigned to Thomas Lee of Phila
delphia, and marked T. L. and there fail
ed with the Hannah, two large fhipa and
a brig for Philadelpl lid.
The Hannah having sprung a leak, putintpthwbsAortwoWeek!i ago,aadan %-
liftman, named Thomas Cux, who escaped
on board the Hannah from Bourdeaux,
by parting as the Captain's Steward,on his
arrival here, gave the Governor informa
tion as above. has since gone to Dub
lin and pretends that the Convention de
prived him of confiderabie property in
Bourdeaux, and that he expects to recover
it out of this brandy.
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 2J.
Ycfterday afternoon about 6 o'clock, soon
after the commencement of a (hower from
'a cloud in the Koitl.weft, the wind then
louthweft, suddenly Ihif'ted to the northeast
when a heavy ihower of hal 1 united with the
rain, descended with great clattering and
violence. The (tones were generally round
and of extraordinary size, measuring 3- 4 ths
of an inch in Diameter, and from 1-4 to 1-3
an inch thick ; the ihape various, many co
nical. Much injut-y must have been sustain
ed in the country ; in the city a great many
panes of glals were broke. This morning
the hail was remaining in large quantities,
in places from which the fun is excluded.
Mr Blount's motion for inteidifling all
commercial intercourse with the Well-In
dia I Hands, laid on the table of the House
of Representatives, some days since, was
this day called up by that gentleman.—
Mr. Sedgwick moved the previous quefti-.
on—viz. (hall the vote be now taken ?—
which paiTed in the negative—-4.6 to 24..
It is reported that the Britilh Minister
here has received notice from our govern
ment that General Wayne should have or
ders to oppose any armed force, of what
ever nation, which he might fall in with
Jn his expedition. Tiiefe orders, it is
/aid, are to be given, in confidence of the
truth of the account that Governor Sim
coe has marched three companies into our
territory, 'fhis warning is a piece of
courtesy which might well be omitted, at
lealt towards a nation whose orders to
plunder tu were ftudioudy kept a secret.
Gen. Adv.
The Britiih policy we reprobate,
_ For arts ihfidious juflly blast theii fame;
t Vet an tiu-decal (dribblers, bawl and prate,
Because we do not praStfe, what we
blame.
T.vo logues they lay, will make one honest
man,
Hence all their schemes of rogu'ry and
deceit,
But should we practice on their fay'rite
plan,
Perdition soon would overwhelm the
State.
Compound, and decompound rogues as
you will,
Then in a morter with a p.cftle bray
them,
Kogues they go in, and rogues continue
(till,
Their dialcft will constantly betray
them.
HIS Britannic Majeily's Conftil Gene
ral for the middle and southern States of
America, gives notice, That he has re
ceived advices from his Majefly's Lieute
nant-Governor of Jamaica, that the ports
of that Jfland will be open for the im
portation of all kinds of piovifions, in
neutralveflils,until the 20th day of CX n ober
next; at the expiration of which time
four month's further notice will be given ;
and for the encouragement of meichants
trading to the ports in the Island of St.
Domingo, in the poffeflion of his Majef
ty'sforces,aflurancesare hereby given,that
all veflels carrying provisions thither, will,
for the present, be allowed to bring a .vay
produce to the amount of their cargoes.
May 21 ft, 1794.
By this Day's Mail.
BOSTON, May 17.
From Ltjbon.
Captain Abrahams, arrived here yester
day, from Lisbon, communicated to the
Edito-, the following particulars of the
celebration of the birth-day of the Presi
dent of the United States, on the 22d
February last—viz.
Feb. 22, 1794.
1 his being the natal day of the Presi
dent of the United States, the fame was
celebrated at the house of the Miniitcr of
mtc d States of America :—After 1
! *nerthe following toatts were given:—
'The President of the United States.
""Long Lite, health and h ippinefs to hiin
» 2 * Ihe Queen and Royal Family oj
3 Portugal, and prosperity to the land w c
live in.
3. All the powers in alliance and friend
fhip with the United States of America 7 .
1 4. The Congrefa of the United States
of America.
5. The different branches of '.he Ex
ecutive of the United States of America.
6. The Judicial of the United ' States
of America.
7. Prosperity to the individuals of the
United States of America, one an j in
divisible forever.
8. The morals and political virtu- s of
the people of the United States of Ame
rica.
9. Induflry and enterprise of the peo
ple of the United States.
10. A speedy and glorious termination
to the Indian war.
_ "■ As much rational liberty to man
kind as they are capable of enjoying.
12. Effectird protection to American
citizens by lea aud land.
13. Eternal gratitude and glory to the
officers and seamen who (hall lirf't render
the name of the United States as terrible
to their Enemies on the ocean, as their
cause is just in itfelf.
14. Our fellovv-citizens in captivity at
Algiers—and a speedy releal'e to them.
If. The fair Daughters of Columbia.
While the company were at table, they
received the following polite note from an
English Nobleman, who had company di.
ning with him at his hotel in the fame
street—" The Earl of Altamont and
and his Company, have tjie honor of
drinking General WASHINGTON'S
Health, with earned wilhes, that the
World may long continue benefited by
his and Virtues." This produ
ced on the part of the American compa
ny an expreifion of lenfibility, the polite
ness of perpetual friendjhip and good offices
bet-ween Great Britain, and the United
States of America. During the enter
tainment, the arms of the United States
had been fixed to remain over the door
of the Mimiter's houfc, which circum
llance occasioned a volunteer, by Mr.
Church, Consul of the United States :
May the foes of Columbia, soon be
come a prey to the Columbian Eagle.
Volunteer by Mr. Cutting,
The Great Family of Mankind.
Volunteer by Capt. Downs,
May the Woild soon court the Smiles
of Columbia.
To crown the feaft of reason with more
than the barren sentiments of philanthropy,
or the fruitlefs tear of lenfibility ; a fubferip
tioo, opened some time before among the
humane and charitable of all defcripiions,
was compleated to the amount of 1000 dol
lars, for the use and comfort of the citizens
of the United States, in captivity at Algiers.
The money has a&ually been forwarded to
its defoliation. And the Americans in Lijbon,
said unto their fellow citizens of the United
States, go ye arid do likewise.
Arrived—This day the brig Either, Ro
bert Wills, matter from Bristol, who failed
in company with (hip Severant, of New-
York, Farley matter ; also brig Sally, Balch,
of Newbury, bound for this port. Left in
Bristol, (hip Roebuck, of and bound for Phi
ladelphia ; brig Nancy, Donning, of Kenne
beck, bound for Philadelphia. On the 46th
April, spoke schooner Thetis of Antigua,
George Potter, matter, bound to Whiteha
ven ; nth May, spoke the Briti(h (hip Sabey
of zo guns, from Str Kitts, bound to Hali
fax, faded from St. Kitts 31ft March : the
Capt. of which informed, that the Britilh
had taken Martinique, Guadaloupe, St. Lu
cia, and in (hort, all the French W. Illands
in the Weft-Indies; the La Blanche of 40
guns failed in company with the Sabey, but
parted off Cape Henry, to cruise for the
French frigate off Virginia.
Arrived—Schooner Ceres, Capt. Joseph
Abrahams, from Li(bon, from whence he
failed the 27th March last, with a number of
American vessels, under convoy of a frigate,
and % (loops of war.
PORTSMOUTH May 13.
Yesterday a number of honejl Jack Tars,
marched through the streets of this town,
with Drums beating and Colours flying, and
after recreating themselves in this manner
during the greater part of the day, they
called at the Oracle Office, and requested
the Editor to publish the following—in do
ing which the public will excuse his desire
to gratify his fea/aring Brethren.
To the Gentlemen Merchants and others,
•who are <wijhing to promote Induflry.
AS the Embargo is now laid on and like
ly to continue, which puts all feafaring men
out of Employ, as they have no other means
for getting their daily bread, for supply for
themselves and children, therefore they are
willing to be employed in any fcrvice that
s. ft,ill h? MCdftry, until they «Sm be employe,
l. w kuw ioyrner service which is the eari,;(
,f wiffi at all
■c TRUE HEARTED TARS.
[_ pi-^ a , rr , ie ? ~^ r " Thomas Passmore, ci
uiadolphid, to die agreeable IvJifs Eli^
A l iaCE.
8 *
PITTSBURGH, May 17.
- Abo.lt two weeks Jince, a Munfee In
• dian was killed at Fort Franklin by A.
s , vubertfon, jun. It appears that this un
fortunate affair was accidental.
- Extra# of a letter from Gen. Wilkins,
asted Fort-Franklin, nthof May.
: vr" ? iie coun ?>7 of jhe Six Nations and
. Munlees that were here, refpe&ing voun?
Kobertfon, ciofed this day. The Indians
- are perfectly fatisfied with what was of
crcd to fatisfy the relations of the dead
, 1 They are to receive the wampum
| brought by Mr. Nicholfon, and fifty dol
. | iars worth of goods, all of which are to
! fe ™ m ? tlle hands of the commanding
; °* ncei ' of ttl!s place, until the relations
' C " me U > reeeiv e it, and Robe.tfon is to
i rCi ' f ! i ; "" '"/""nneme'it here iintil that time.
I x left the troops that came with me
f spirits, in the neighborhood of Le
| Bceuf, to which place I expect to return
; in a few days."
The Indians have lately been trouble
inaie on the Ohio ; a man going down in
a boat of the contractors, was killed, and
a tami.y of four persons were killed a ihort
diltance below Mufldngum, about three
weeks ago.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Ship Wilson, Harry, Liverpool
B"g Nymph, Webb, Fort Dauphin , 5
Sloop \onpare.l, Guthrie, Alexandria to
V irjrima, Sigourney, Virginia
Captain oigourney informs, that on
Friday lad the Britiih frigate £>edalus,
winch lay theie a considerable time past
and another Engli/h frigate which late
ly arrived there, and is said to have come
to her afiiftance—got under way and both
proceeded to sea, Ihortly after they pal Ted
the Concord, as she lay in the way She
weighed anchor and proceeded to sea after
them.
The la (I mentioned English frigate was
■the Fox of 38 guns.
Capt. Harry failed from Liverpool the
rl d fi'tH rn < he 4th spoke a ship from
Charleilon, bound to Amsterdam, out 16
days, and on the i 7 th the Ihip Aurora from
London bound to New York, out ;i days.
The Clip Wilson is the fame that was chafed
by the t lying I ifh privateer on Tuesday last;
lias a letter of marque, and carries io fix
pounders.
t ANECDOTE.
A Quaker who was examined before
their honors the governors of the Excise
Office, touching some certain duties, that
it was supposed had not been properly
J paid, was rather mote primitive in his
language than they liked ; and not choof.
ing to use any otbei; titles than thee, thou,
, and. friend, one of them with a very stern
. countenance, allced him,—" Pray Mr.
• > do you know for what we fit here
1 " Yea," replied Nathan, Ido : some of
' yau for five hundred, others for a thou
sand, and I have been told, others for
two thousand pounds a year."
Morris Academy.
THIS inftiimion is now open for the recep
tionof ftmlents under the immediate care of
Mr. Caleb Rufflell, whose abilities as an m
ftruftor, ant| attachment to the business have
long been known and approved. He has un
der him the bell afliftants in the different
branches—The scholars are taught the En
glith, French, Laiin, and Greek languages,
Public-Speaking, Writing, Arithmetic, Geo
graphy, Astronomy, and the various branch
es of the Mathematics. The heahhy situa
tion of this place is such as to recommend it
to those, who Willi 10 have their children in
the Boat ding, washing, mending,
&c. will he provided in good families, and
the morals of the scholars carefully attended
to.
The pi ice including tuition, firewood, See.
(exclusive of the Frehch language) will not
exceed thirty pounds proclamation money per
annum) an addition of three dollars per quar
ter will be made to such scholars wbo are
teught the French language. The Dirc&ors
ar edet-rmined to pay such attention to this
institution, a-: will render It reTpe&able and
ufcful.
GABRTEL H. FORD, ~)
TIMOTHY JOHNS, jun. C Direft'j.
NATHAN FORD, 5
Moi riflown, May 15, 179+
diw.—w»m.
a I • f ; man received by the late ar
!; j HamLurgh— under the Frankfort
J h<ad of March 18th, fay, that Robelnicrre
Hid .-not appeared in the Convention for a
number of days—one reason assigned for hit
I u u°f r'' th " he was —another, that
i he had been dispatched by the committee
Rr Tl'W P n , vate em ba(Ty.—Under the
tW °- L arch IJth ' is a rc P° rt '
that the campaign had openM by an attack
* 1 drccy d cam Ps the French at Lau
■ ' al
| Fo jJ a » e Charter,
I Burthen iooo barrels.
I she, ,s „ nau. clr f«ft failing new velT I,well
I found, and ready tor any vopg--, either to
I Earope, or the Well Indies. For terms ao-
I ply 10 r
L u „ DE3LOIS (3* BRECK.
I At their llore, between Walnut and Cheliiut
ftrest wharves.
May 23 d
THEATRE."
Mr. Bates's Night.
THIS EVENING,
May 23.
Will be performed,
A COMIC OPERA, called
the DUENNA;
O R,
The Double Elopement.
Don Jerome, Mr. p inch
Don terdinaud, Mr. MarfhaU
A«o»:o, Mr. Francis
Carlos, Mr. Darley, Sun.
fT Z 'r, , Mr. Bliffet
Father Paul, Mr. Darley
Father Francis, Mr.VVarrell
Starved Friar, Mr. De Moulin
Isaac Mendoza, Mr. Bate.
I Clara, Miss Broad hurst
Louisa, Mrs. Warrell
I Flora, Mrs. Cleveland
Margaret, (the Duenna) Mrs. Shaw
I In the course of the Opera, Mr. Bates will
j (for that night only) introduce a vocal
I squeaking grunting rhiming Rhapsody,
The Learned PI? ?
I o R, !
I The Fortune-Teller an All Fours.
Preceding the Entertain,nen., a Whimsical
Pantomimical PROLOGUE, fnppofed to
be written by Sone-Body, addressed to
I Any-Bod:, to be heard by Enj ry-BoJy, and
I to be delivered in the character of NO-
I BODY, by Mr. Bates.
I At the conclusion of which, he will (for
I that night only)
I Leap thro' a Grand Transparent Star,
I Eight feet high, illuminated with
I Fire Works.
I To which will be added,
J In two parts , for the firft time at this The
atre, the Panto mime of
Robinjon Crujbe ;
HARLEQUIN FRIDAY.
I With the original Music, Scenery, Machi-
J nery, Drefles, &c.
I The Scenery designed and painted by Mr.
Melbourne.
I The Pantomime produced under the direc-
I tion of Mr. Bates.
Robin fonCrufoe, Mr.Whitlock
I Pierot, - Mr. Darley jun.
Spauiard, Mr. Cleveland
Pantaloon, Mr. De Moulin
Clown, Mr. BliiTet
Capt.of Ship, (withafong) Mr. Darley
Harlequin Friday, (for that night
I only) by Mr. Bates
Columbine, Miss Willems
In AS the Firjl,
A Dance of Indian Savages.
At the conclusion of theEnt rtainmcnt,
Mr. Quefnet, from the Optra House in Paris
w II dance
Une Entrie Pajlorale.
I Being his firft appearance in this country.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Bates, at the cor-
Carr's Mulical Repository, Market street. ■
The Office of the Theatre, and of Mr.
Franklin, where places may be taken. t
On Monday, a Comedy, ( never perform
ed here) called, SHE WOULD and SHE
WOULD NOT, or the KIND IMPOS
TER. With entertainments for the benefit
of Mr. Morris.
Mr. WHITLOCK's NIGHT on Wed
nesday the 28th.
A Tragedy, never performed in Ame
rica, called JULIA, or the Italian Lo
ver.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to
fend their servants to keep places, at half an
j hour past 5 o'clock, and to order them to
withdraw, as soon as the company are seated
as they caunot.on any account be permitted
to remain in the boxes, n«r any places kept
after the firft a<ft.ESS£N C E J*
F.: the Tooth-Ache, gj
prepared and fold by Dr. LM, Golden- T£
Square, London. OW
THR" pub ic i; nifci-ed one of the tno *
effii '.ci iu» aid fafe meilicines, tin t evei ap- Co"
Beared, tw that mod e*cruc<«ri*S •<* U»
Tooth-Ache —the nomeriju* irftarfert ot its i
happv effects, to relieving-the "affllfted, have Wi
riW't i-'to u •h. V eft maro.. 8 it Co.
noto .lv relieve, the tooth -cbc, tat ol the Pin
utm 'ft fei vue ifl c«.»0& the SC.I &VY ... *e Lo
Gu"is, 11» p-ev;,:., the dilagreeablc I fie 1 Plr
th t ; >ro I need from unum -& tee It, & wit L'
S".ld in .Phil acle !ph a only ; t p
Poynteli's Stationary Store,
N'o. 21, SwC Mid ftrcet.
_ tu-h^a^
.Ad-vcrtifement.
I liK ~ I i-h-i. oi Mr Thomas Curtis,for- v
meriy of ETcot '».Up.!*' Milb, and «,
the C ty of Waftvng'.oo. deceafrd, are desir
ed to i ply r d -have his afT.* rs felt c . ai
G'.tv ot" Wflftiingioii, April 22,' 1 7 '-L It
M " 5 iTitxt.fr4 w
JUST PUBLISHED,
MATHEW CAREY, p
118, Market JlreU, ,
Price 18 cents,
THE
Xatechifm of Man ; ;
Pointing <-ut from found prim Pe") > a ' ° ac '
knowled .e<l tarts the Rights and Dut.es ot
ev^ry'Rational Be nig.
Am 1 therefore became your enemy beraufe I
telty m.the truth ? ©aUAV...6= •
Now all tjipfe happened unto thein tor
e .ample', they arc written for our
admonition, upon « hom the en 's 1
garth a ncome. \ SPJ
_Vt v ,o tuthfewv
'T.jj Ground Plan
OF THE
City and Suburbs
' OF
PHILADELPHIA. |
7AKF.N FROM sIZTVJI. SURPETf
IT is with pleaftire that the publisher has to
info in 'iis fubfcriber.s and the public in genr.
ral that the plate «? now Under the hands ot
tile-engrave , and in greater so. ward fs than
was at fii ft contemplated At tf-r fa-'-e time
be begs leave to r mind them, th t loWfrnp*
tion pipers are {till open at most of tne noted
book-itores in the city ; and that he hones
from the whole of them to h enabled to t" m
such a refpe(Stable catalogue of na.resj as will
. do a credit to the work, as well as a.iord a
reasonable encouragement to the uadeit ke-r
Tbofe who are dctirquj of farther informa.
tion are reqnefted to call on,
Benjamin Davies,
N No.-68, Market Iti eet.
April 14- m&thtf
ADVERTISEMENT.
OF th.- ni/nsy ,w>bed fr-m The mail near
Bahimou, y Do<stoi Gam, lio dollars we»e
afterwards Tent by an unknown han<ji t0 th'
Pofenalter at Bail - ore, .who tranfniitted
the fame to the General Post Otßce. The f\it
ferers bj that robbery arc cefii cd to the
amtjuntof their loff-s refpedt*. vciy, d tranl
niit the fame, with the originalVtttirs of their
correfpondfnts (where recovered) or other
evidence thereof to the General Post Office,
before the firft day of June next, immediate
ly after which a dividend toill be made among
the claimant*.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Pojl Majlir General,
Gen. Post Office, Apr»] 4, 1794 iaw6\v
freafury Department. !
Revenue-Office, May 7th 9 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given, thai PropofaU
' will be received at the Office ot the Commif-
TiDner of the Revenue, for Ship Timber of
the following kind's, suitable for the building
of the Frigates authorized by Law. A par
ticular detail of the sizes and proportions will
be communicated, on application at the said
Office.
White Oak Timber and Plank,
f9B Piece of various Dimensions, nrlud- .
ing Keels, Floor and Rvfing T'tnbeil 1
&c. for a Veirel of 140 or 150 feet 1 j
Keel.
f 27,000 Feet of Plank, Scantling, WaU
0 piece* - , Bilge St eak , Champs, See. See
rt 200 for various u es.
X Pitch Pine.
1 25,000 Feet of Plank for Decks.
■§ 210 Beams, from 42 to 28 feet long, and
S from 10 by 12 to 15 by 18 Inches tln o'.
£ 53,000 Locust Treenails, 18, 24 and 30
inches long.
5.000 Feet of Inch and half-inch Cedar
Boards.
30,000 Feet of Yellow Pine Boards and
Scantling.
Peffons willing to supply any part of tqe
above Timber for one Ship, or in proportiou
for the whole fcx, will make their Propofels
accordingly. tiigctyv.
iADKIRA, "J
ORT, lV ' i WINES'of thefirft quality j
ISBON, & j
Ant s ' U aand Weft India J
Hunt- „ j ■
oiiiac, French and Peach Brand «
;Uret ai'd Port Wine ot a superior qnal y
"[yder and Vinegar in
:„rk S in Bale ■, HavannAh Sega!» ■£&**?'
'I.ihdelphia Porter, in Calks and Butt e .
,ondoii do. in 'dot ait. . . ,
'Iviladelplita Ale and Beer ... do. do.
L,ondim do in d' l - no am ' irn _ v
'yder :. barrel and bottle", preparedfor ex
' P ' mat,OR RmIALE e BY
Benjamin Vv • Moris,
The corner of D >ck and Pearjlreets,
w ere he ira, ; rov, ed feilttt* "<; res and
v.iuitS, f«r 'the reception ot
wly F- .5, & c -
Which he prnpofes. to ft.tr* y< d.pofc cf on
comnliffio.i . ,
CaptainsofvtdTels ar.d o >hers(%luawi™
anv ot t eal,ovcLtq.UOßSt.ott!., , and Tea
ftorc'S ill ge, <-• *1 put up. r
Mav 9 —
Concluding. Sales. !
cr*l>y* twxving-eri^rt^'4rito Co
p;l.t!>e7flipvvthMr. J-l. in
the b.ifm-rs of Sugar Rentuni;, w«ll d.fpofe
of the . .
Remaining Stock on hand
cvvs.-;Ti of
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c, &c.
By IVholejuie at Prime Cojl for Cajh.
John D-orfey,
' No ?2, Nai ti 3' 1 It■ eet.
April I ■ ■'" , ' fr 6w
A New Novel.
Tothe LADFSof Philadelphia.
This Day is Publijhtd by
MATHEW CAREY,
118, Market street,
Pric, bound, ti<e ot a dollar, sewed
in' a ble paper, halt z dol'rr,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
IN TWO VOLUMES.
By Mrs. ROWSON, of the New The,.tre, ,
Puladelphia, Author of Victoria, thp In
cutilltor, the Fille cle Chamb' e, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given
the following character.
IT mav be a Tale of Truth, for it .s n#t
unnatural, and it is a talr ot real diitrels.—
Charlotte, by the artifice of a teachei, recom
mended to a febool, irem humanity rather
than a ponviftion ot her integ' itv, or the re.
gular'ity of her former comJutt, is enticed
from her govevrcf , v d accompanies a young
)lficer toAnv 'ica.—The n. irrir ge ceremo
ny, if not forgotten, is postponed, and ( har
lotte dies a martyr to the inconstancy (-1 the
ovv , and treachery ot his fritnd —-1 he fitu
tions are artleis and affe&ing—the defciip
ations natural and pathetic; we flvuld fee
for Charlotte if fueh a person ever cxifted,
who for one er-or scarcely, perhaps, deserved
To severe a jnimfhinerit. it is a fiction,
poetic juflice is not, we think, properly d'.l
tributcd
Said Carey has jujl publjfloed,
A 2 sheet map of Kentucl'.y
compiled by Elihu Barker, price one dona,
and two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France:
Germany, Spa n,ltaly, the United Provinces,
the Netherlands, and the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars.
Map of New Jersey—Hals a dollar.
M ips of Vermont, Conne&icur, Delaware,
Georgia Price three eighths of a dollai
each.
April 29. tuth&sjw
Books by au&ion.
On Wednesday, Thursday, and Saturday
next, at four o'clock in the afternoon, at
J. Connelly's Au&ion Store,
No. 78, ftulh Front Jlreet,
Will be continued the sale of a valuable
Collection of BOOKS,
Mostly new or in good condition, beginning
at No. 157 in the catalogue.
They may be seen any day prior to the
sale from 10 till 2 o'clock, at No. 26, Spruce
street, where catalogues may be had and com
missions received from any persons who can
not attend the fate.
May 19 dts
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandan, from
St. Petersburg in RutT.a,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
KAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
; No. 22) Walnut-street.
March 4,1794. diwjtawtf
I The Public are cautioned to I J
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of |
the Batik of the United States, and Twenty I
ftfor Bills of the Bank of North America,
feneral of which have appeared in circulation I
within a few days pajl ; they are a goodge
nera! imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be diflinguifhed by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the *
United States. „ I .
I AI-L thV* have appeared have letter . .
I sot their AlphabeticaLMark. , I
The Texture of thl Paper is thick r
whiter and u uk.es the ink more f>ee y I
I (ban lW M- and oil" l«tt"« 01 ""V;
. I r 0 that a line extended from ihe top ft > I
to touch the top oft lie M. would extend con
siderably above the range of the whole word.
1,1 the word United Hie letters are " ar "™-
erand closer together than the reft of the bill 1
I The j and fin the word promil'e are not I
,n parallel, the /inclining much more forward
I than the t. I
I, I The engraving executed,the Hi okes 1
, a of all the Letters are stronger and the devi e I
' in theinargVn particularly Ismuch coaifcr and 1
I appeal's dai ker than in ihe true bills. Some
- 0! the counterfeits bear daie irr 1 -c,i—Whe Te
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were iflued in
jfe I Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North I
I America.
I ALL that have appeared have the letter
I B lor their alphabetical mark.
They are printedoll a paper nearly similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described; the engraving is be.te. exe
ucted, and they approach neaier to the ap
pearance of t»e geijuine bills.
The fine rifliji 1>«4» through the word I veri
ty in ti-ebodv of die bill, are '.11 number th 1-
Uen in the genuine b.lls, and but twelve in
the counterfeits'. ,
The word Somfuny is much like the tome
*ord in tne Five Dollar Bills as described a
bove, the « being lets than the m, and otheis
Ho stroke to the t inilie word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is we .
' letters cnl in the word Twenty, to tfe
left ;iaud at the bottom, do 1101 come down to
i I the line, but are so cut as to give ail irregular
a pearauCfc to the word, the Tw and '-he_y go
iiijr oelow' them.
The li -naiui e J, Nixon, has the appear
ance ol titing written with U " >^ blaC f^'" 1 '
. o l and differs Irom other inks ulcd
- printing the bills aiid the cafliier's ligrtature.
I It is supposed theie forgeries weie cominuud
I 1 in fomeot tfte Southern stale.-, as ail ihe cuun
lertc.is thai have appeared, have come Irom
thenar, and two peilom have been apprehend
-1 ed in Virginia,on suspicion of being the author
' °' The'reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
1 will be paid to any Peilon or Persons who mall
s difcovci and piolecutt to conviction the levt ral
d offeudeis of u.e folio wing de'rnpuons or any
S of them, viz.
>" The peilon or pifons, who manutaUured
r " the paper on which Uk Bills ai.e piinted.
The pei•on or perlons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, ol the bills.
Every pei lon who has acted as a principal in
any other wav> in the counterfeiting and utter
ing ihe laid b:lb.
Philadelphia, Maich 28, i/94
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank ol the United States nave appeal c<
111 circulation. u
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL c
LARS,and the alphabetical maik is the iet- I
t*r B. • S
They may be diftiftguiflied from the genu- r
ine by the following MAIIKS : 1
The paper of the counterfeits is of a more |
tender texture and glofley furface than the '
genu'ne, and the;e is no water mfcrkinthem. '
The letter C. in the word Cashier, in ihe
true bills isftrongiy marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
stroke, evidently in an unfinifhed state. The
letters in the word demand, is badly lormcd
and the whole word ill done, and there is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine hills.
The marginal device, is much daiker in
I the falfe, than in the genuine bills owing to
the lhade ttfokes being coai fe>, much rearei
together, and consequently much more nu
merous. This difference ftnkes the eye at firit
view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, wij| be paid for appi ehending, &r
prosecuting to convi<stion the feveval above
described Offenders in refpedt to this, as to
the last described bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Piefident
ol the Bank United States.
JOHN NiXON, P.didentof the
faank ol North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
peftive Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible lituation, —alio a Country Seat
Wi hif»6miles of the City, with 9 acres ol
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
cf th? ci y, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
mScthtf
Beef, Pork, and Butter.
BEEF, prime ap<t cargo of good quality
POMC, prime and cargo of do.
BUKLING lON I'ORK
BUTTER, in firkini
ALSO,
A CARGO OF
MAHOGANY",
Landing at John Weft's Lumber Vard, near
Pool's Brfilg , from on board the F a j, Ameri
can, fiom the Bav of Honduras, and
3000 bushels of Good Wheat,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SKY.RIN,
No. 35, No. Water Street.
May 15. di*s
Just Published,
,1 one handsome volume, nmo. Price 5s
and for. sale by
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin s Head, No. 4 1, Chefuul
Sue it >
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On tfie Rights that, n lult from it, and on the
Duties wh'icn i£ imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Tevlerian Society at Haarlem.
Corrected and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
i>. D.
Profeflor of Moral Phil.ofophy, and the Law
oi.Nature t and pi'Ecclefiallital Hiflory ;
and'Minifter of the Evgliih Chuichat'U
tre<lit.
Aliquid (imper ad commurxm utilitatem al'-
ferrndum Ctctno.
The Fir/2 American Edition.
THEgrand principle Qi EquadJTVjjjf cjght
ly nndetftood, is the only basis on which..
, universal justice, sacred older, ami petfeft
freedom, can be firmly built, ai d permanent
; l.y secured. The view of it exhibitedirt this
eilay, at the fame time that it rrprefles the
s insolence of office, the tyranny «f p. de, ai il
the eutrages of oppreflion.; confirms, 'n the
h mod forcible-manner, the-nect flity of fubor
li donation, and the jnit demands ot'law lul au
thority. So far indeed, Vrpm loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftinftion,
draw-*more clofely'evety social tie, unite's in
one harmonious and jultlv proportioned I'yf
tem, and brings men together on tie even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
tur«, of reciprocal obli ation, and of a com
trioii relation to the community.
March 18. tntf
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the Houje of Reprefentatrves,
Dt c h m l y. n 21 il. 1 t
WHI'ftEAS ihe Com n»> (lionets ol public t
Accounts, h*vc reported, chat they can
not proceed ro the ittve&igation oi ihe Treasury
Accounts, refp&ing fpicial Indents,, without
known# the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation Thercfr re, 1
Refoktd,♦ That all holders of special Ind<nfs
be dir< £ted, and requiri 0, on or before the fiift
day of Nov< inber n xt,to deliver the facial In
dents in their pofiVffion to one or other of rfie
Commiflionefs of the I*r;aluTv, whoaretogive
receipts for the fai\ie,~ and to report totbeCoin
miflioncrs on public accounts,on or belore the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
therm i clpc6lively received, and also 10 t he Le-
at their meeting in Novmber next.
and that all special Indentsnot rco<tei«<\ into
the Treasury as above, on or before the
of November next, Ihall be, and the fame are
heieby barred.
Rejo/ved, That public notice of this icU.non
be given in the several Gazettes ,n this Statf^
once every three Weeks, on »l the fi'ft day r ;
November next- And 'hat the De!rgatf?oh is
State in the Congress ol the United Sfatcf, ne "*
cjut fted 10 cause this resolution to be puMy
io one or more papers in the cities of Jt "
"Hia and New-York, and that proviftbrt *" "
ade for the expences attending fochpu 'c..
>n. .
Ordered, That the refolmion be lent w tne
nate for their concurrence.
By order of the Hnuf%
JOHN SAN'OIU) DART, C.H.*.
In the SENA'TEi
i>ECE iSBL*
RcfohrA, That this Hoofe do coocut w" hl «
ouie ol Representatives ta ibt lorego;n 8 teio
itions. l-
Ordered, That tfcc refolationt be lent to
louse of Keprefeotatives.
bv order of the Senatr,
FELIX WARLEY.CIrtI.
ewtNov# '
Stock Brokers Office,
No. i 6, W.U-fti'ett, \£«-Vo«k_
iniendi.ie'^co^oeh'm
X entirely to the PCKCHASK &SALIC
STOCKS on COMMISSION, h gi> <»" 100
f r his f«vice«to his <itei>d« awd otwe*s ,n
line o( a Stock Broker. Tb..^
to favor with their buft«e'*« rosy
upon having it with ti»Co*® ll
Itty and dispatch. f
Orders from PfailadeJyb^*
other partot the United
•trended to. LEONARD BUfW*-
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, i
South Fourth-Street. %