- • '■* i ' -' • * ' , - •; * ' • ' .• "*•'
EVENING AD VERTISER.
[No. 112 of Vol. V.] Wednesday, April 23, 1794. [Whole No. 508.] '
For Sale or Charter,
ANDROMACHE,
( An American bottom)
aSiaS John Moore, Majler.
IS a (lout good veltel, about two years old,
burthen 232 tons, has only mad 1 three voy
»jes, and iriay be lent to sea at a frnall ex
pence. She maybe Teen at Vi'ie-ftieet whbrt,
and the terms made known bv appl cation to
' WHARTON &' LEIVIS.
March 21., dtf
For Amsterdam,
-j The new fact-failing, copper
(CT&iuT bottomed SHIP
§§§ ADRIAN A,
tfliii u T K. Fitzpatrick, Mattel - .
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in-
for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or paflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. id JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Passengers will be landed in Eng
, land if required.
March 6, 1794 dtf
For Norfolk & Fredericksburgh,
Brig ■
SALLY,
John Earl, Matter.
A iiaunch y*jod veiTel, will fail in a few
days." for freight or p ITage, apply to the
mailer on board at Chefnut street wharf, or
/ JOSEPH ANTHONY &f SON.
March 31. dtf
~~ A FEJ? BARRELS OF
POTATOES,
Well picked, a very large quantity—
i AND A FEW
Tierces of Rice,
FOR S A ITS' "BY
Louis Ofmont,
No. 117, north Second street.
April 17. dtf
The Profits drijing from the following publi
cation are for- the benefit of the Poor,
Just publilhed, printed by R. Aitkeh and
Son, and fold by J. Crukftank, W. Young
T. Doblon, and the other Booksellers,
mi NUT £ ( S
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed 011 t.ie 14th September 1793, by
the Citizens of P liUdelphia, the Northern
■ Liberties, and-the D'.itrift of S,i#tbw»rk,
to attend to and alleviate the Culferings of
the afflirterf with the Malignant Fever,pre
valent, in the City and it- vicinity!
• 'WITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
A lift of perfoirs adm.treu into the Hospi
tal at Bush hill, Ihewing the times of their
admift-m, death and difchargr.
Number of Houfcs, Deaths, &c. in the
refpedfive streets, alleys, and courts in the
c>ty of Philadelphia, Noith rm Liberties, and
Diftri<st of Southwa'k.
A lift of ihe Interments in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia, Northern
Liberties, and D ftricl of Souihwa'k, with a
Inetcorological account of the weather.
A fuinmary of donations in calh and provi
fioiis, received from sundry persons and pla
ces, for tne ufj of the poor and
April 2. <13 w
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipe Si
A few bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
1 Gldfs Ware, ■viz. Tumblers and Mugs, -va
rious fuses.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, fnuare and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &t. tfc.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale
fhouldapplication be made •within a fetvdays ;
etherwife fbe will take freight for Amster
dam.
March 1, 1794. d t f
>
The following Certifi
cute of the iunued three per Srock of tbe
Dounilic Debt ot the United Suites ftandmgon
vhe books ot the Treasury ot the id United
States, in ihe names ot Donnald and \J3urion of
London, merchants, and signed by Joseph
Nouife, Register of laid Tic-iury, to wit
No. 5476) dated 241b Auguit 1792 fok 29,59
<:iollai-> 53 cents v vvas tianlYmtied fron\ Lou
don in the (hip Peter, Hutfey, nailer,
» uound for New York, and has been I<|>ll.—
Tiii-Sublci ibcr intending 10 apply to the Trea
mry ol the United Stales 10 have the fame re
newed, dcfiirs all furious who are inteiefted in
the laid certificate, to make their ohjetf'ioiis
itieceio, ;f any ihey have.
Francis Macy.
Philad. Martfh 27. clow
Louis Oimont,
Hjs removed irom No. 40, cjojitiil ,iid fticel,
'" Wo. 117, norln jSecoud iti'ci, between
1 A.ch and Ract itreets, id thcl'e flirts lately
» occupied by Mr. Stanuan, oppofne 10 Mcffrs
1 J- W' and \V. whir he .ktepe his
Wloltfule Warcheuffii loi the laic ef all
for s of GOODS, and the t ran fa tit on of all
coin»»flio finfiii fs, <iiid
Has now for Sa\e,
White silk stockings,
> High Jtngfiin fafhiou
A box ol French pomatum
Hauging Paper oi the be ft patterns and co
-1 lours
A lew pieces of Long Ljwiis
An invoice of Satiin Ctoaks, which on ac
count of thefeafon will be lold losv and at a
long crcdit f
Champaign Wine 6 years old
A few pipes Lisbon Wine
i Do. do. Port Wine
Do. do. Madeira
* Som e PalCavelia Wine
Burg or, dy Wine aud Claret,
Annl 17- dtf
~P I Li A C Y!
{f3* THE ichooner DELIGHI", the pro
peuv ttf Mjnu« lAn nui.i M 4a ,<. us th- 11-
(•nu (.1 Bona ViHa, was on the 18th of Oc
tober laft,while lying at ancnor in the load of
thai Island, forcibly enrimd and cairied'ofF
by JOH N DUNHAM, J OWN MURRAY, a
man by tue naoic of DODGE, and one other
parson, name unknown.—This veilel wiiS fold
t M A- Martin, by SV'iiliara MiNeill, who
[ «aine to Bma Villa in her, trom Madeira
S'ie was LSuilt in the county of Mauhews,
ttate oF'Vuginia, and was registered at New-
York, the 16th April, 1793 —Her natns was
piinicd 01 her (lem—Her diraenfions at fol
lows : 56 leet 6 inches keel, >6 sees 6 inches
beam, hold 6 feet 2 inlhes, her burthen 54
tons.
At the time of their enteting the veflel,
, theie was a black man on board by 'he name
«f Balthaler, whom they carried off with them.
John Dunham was mate of the veflel under
Capt. M.'Neill, prior to the faje of her, and
the other persons were mariners. Dunham
is a married man, and has a faiiilly at Nan
tucket.
The cargo of the ve(f;l confided of tfie fol
lowing articles.—2 cafis containing 74 pieces
Linen; cale Wii.e-Glailes; 1 bale containing
g pieces Broadcloth j 1 do. q d». 79 piece?
Cotton, (oeedie worked) —33 do. do inferior,
2 m»ys of Salt; (he had seven small arms and
some pistols.
I If any person can give any Information of
( this veilel, or any part of the property, so that
it can be recovered, or the offenders brought '
oj jultice, tney are rtquefted to iirturm Miffrr.
Joseph Anthony and Son, Philadelphia;
Mu « k *r and Mumford, New.York ; Claxk
and Nightingale, Providence; or Heao
and AiMosy, Boston.
March 17. d iw .
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
superior qujlity in pipes, imported in the Ihip
Wil Tiington.
OLD SHERRY WINE of the firft quality
in quarter calks, imp orted in the brig Nancy
cafit. Gwirt. fr. m Cadii.
SHSLLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RAISiNS, imported in dltio.
Particular TENERIFFE WINES,in Jjipes
hhds. and qnarier calk*, imported iu the Ihip
Thomas, capt. Skinner. '
A ie.w quarter tfaifc of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who ha? also, just arrived' and for sale
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lijbon Salt.
A qnantity of empty BAGS for sale.
Apt" 5. w&sim.
A FEW POUNDS
V A NILLA,
FOR SALE BY
Louis Ofmont.
April 19.- d 3 t.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogftigads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hoglheads and quarter casks,
FOR. SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, So«h Front ftrtet. N
Jan. a, 1-194. dtf
FOR SALE,
CAREY, No. üB,
Maiket-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery,
to exhibit in a new point'pt view
itsetiedU on hoials\ ladujiry, and the peace oj
fotfety. Some ta£ls and calculations are offered
to prove the labor of jreemen to be much more
prodnl foe than that oi Jlaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful und happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the n ctffuv conclusion, that
slavery is impolitic as well s ttojujl.
Pr Ice 25 Cents. dtf
February 13.
B O 0 K S.
A CHOICE COLLECTION,
Lately imported, and for sale at
No. 26, Spruce, opposite Dock
Street,
AT LOW PRICES,
■dmong <which are the folloiving :
FOLIO.
Cbanthei lain's Hillary of London with plates
PaiiaJ.as At clmedturcy 2 vols, in one bo ft edi
tiofc
Tillotfon's Works, 3 vols, best edition
Rapines History of England with Tindal's
C ontinuation, 3 vols.
Shaw's Travels thro' Bgrbary and the Levant
Poftlethwait's Dittionajy of Trade and Com
merce, 2 vols.
QU A R T 0.
Bruce's Trave's, 5 vols, fine plates
Robertfon's History of* America, 2 vols.
Maclaurin's Account ofNewtoaisPhilofophy,
M'Kniglit's Harmony of the Golpels
Lowman on the Revelations
Ledtvick's Antiquities of Ireland
Locke on the Epistles
Glafj's account of the Canary Islands
Bell's Travels through Aiia, 2 vols.
Touinefort's voyage to the L-vant, 2 vols.
OCTAVO.
The annual Regiftet, 34 vols, from its com.
mencitnent
Niebuhi's voyage to Arabia, 2 vols.
Hume's History of England, with Smplletts
coniißu'atfon, 14 vols.
Crevier's Lives of the Roman Emperor's, lo
vols.
Pennant's Account of London
Ree\ es's frftoty of the Eng! fh Law, 4 vols.
Blickftone's Commentaries, 4 vols.
Rayrial's history oi the East a+id Weft Indies,
7 vo|s.
Bell's beautiful edition of the Britift) Poets,
109 vols.
LIVRES FRANCOIS.
L'Antiquiie expliquee avec Figures par Mont
lauf >n torn. foi.
Les Auriquues dc I'Egypte par Norden foi. a
vec D«. fcri ption
Dictioiinaire H ftorique 9 torn oft.
Theatre dc Voltaire elegt. relie 9 torn.
Hift.iire Romam par Roll in 16 torn.
Lc Temple dis Mufcs avec des beaux Tableaux.
CEirvres dc Boileau, Moliere, Helvetius&c.
With many others cquallv good,
ALSO,
An Excellent Quadrant,
warranted perfect; a tew acfomatic Pocket
perfp. Give Glafles ; a fine toned German Flute
6 keys and addi'tiou2l joints ; and a few ele
gant Coloured Piints.
Apnl 21. "*mwf&m
Penrifyivariia H-ofpital,
4th Month, jch ! 794. .
The Contributors are desired
tf. attend the Election) to be he]J at the
Hospital on rhr sth day of the sth Month
nextj-.tt 3 o'clock in the afternoon; to choose
twelv- Managlrs and a Treasurer, for
the enitifng year:
By o/'dtr of a board of Managers.
Samuel' Coates, clerk.
From the Virginia Gazette.
Publilhed at Richmond.
Mr. Davis,
TO you is presented for publication,
the enclosed extiaft of a letter, of the 4th
instant, from a Philadelphia citizen, whose
life in the late war, when real objects were
at flake, exhibits incontrovertable testimo
nials of his love of country, his obedience
to the obligations of morality, and his per
' fonal military exertions in the cause of rea
son and of liberty.—l have introduced
this detail of the writer's chara&er, be
cause the inchoate palLonate proceeding®
of one branch of an august body, detailed
by the public papers, and heightened by
private correspondence, which every mail
circulates through this state, manifeits un
equivocally that the spirit of internal dif
c6t d and foreign war, is affectionately es
timated by some deputies of a people, who
hold the peaceable occupations of the har
row and the plough to be the certain paths
to national weight and to individual happi
ness, and who did fuppbfethat ourconfti
tution general, and conflitutions particu
lar, afforded a positive warrantee of peace
and its blessings to them, which never
could be interrupted by the egotism and
passion of men, clothed with public au
thority, aided by the desperation of their
seconds, whose noise is become as disgust
ing, as is their courage to fight and pow
er to pay those who have courage to fight*
Whether we are to be deprived of the a
bundant blessings we poflefs, will depend
on those to whom our public concerns arc
entrusted. May the God of Nature en
due our Congress with wisdom, and by
his lpecial interposition, save our nation
from the menaced deep calamity, by in
spiring the Houfc of.Reprefentatives with
a recollection, that they are the trufteei
of a people who love religion, obey the
truths of morality, and lijle our Blefled
Saviour, believe peace among mankind to
be the highest grade of felicity allowed
to the human race.
the extract.
"OUR worthy friend, I ought to fay
father, from his gootlnefs to us, has lived
too long : A second war opens to hii
view, and catches him like the past in
enterppfing commercial adventures I
wish his situation now was correfporident
to his situation then—but alas! injured
by the capture of his vefTels, and injured
by the paper payments received from
his country, he was reduced low *
—When he recommenced on the return
of peace the business to which he bad
been bred, again his honesty flourifhed,
and he had again fair profpeas from the
flow but certain gains of frugality and in
dustry.—Hi& numerous family urged him
into an extension of his foreign business,
and pending his second adventure on hig
enlarged plan, war appears !—war unne
cessary and apparently courted !—but so
it is—for could you hear the debates of
the Congress, you would think that our
| country's happiness is at an end Re
venge governs our politicians— or perhaps
ir m its garb, personal interests, personal a
nimosity, and base ambition—Our Le
gislators are too highly paid—They be
come proud and mighty of spirit, and
think that as they are well off so long as
they can hold their places, which they
.count certain so long as the passions and
not the judgment of their constituents can
be rcforted to, and therefore hold cheap
the pnblic welfare,—Virginia ought to
set the good example of mixing honor
with coin, in return for the services of
Congress. lam told your own State Se
nators and State delegates have but twelve
shillings per day in money, and the ba
lance in honor; and they are generally
speaking, superior to the United States'*
„ Ho'ufe of Representatives.
An experiment in Congress in this
way would be fair in this period of theory
—if it produced refpedt to refra&ion andcontempt for declamation, the bkffings of
ear political courtitutipns would probably
-Continue from generation to generation.
Unlets foirie change takes place soon, mea
fureß will be pulhed from session to ses
sion, until those who think they can better
us, fuccecd Britain commonly, Algiers
sometimes, and mal-adminillratiori of the
Federal Gevernment always, together with
the weight of obligation to France occali
oualiy,compofe the text, and yon would be
aftoniihed at the capacity of the expositors,
for although eloquence is rare among them,
found argument confined to one (your ami
able, theoretic country-man,) they all pil
fers parliamentary courage, and they all
use their right of franking letters liberal
ly, and of coiirfe make much buttle in the
Honfe and out of the Houle.—They will
I in/about a war, if Great-Britain is not
itaiiviveablv averse to it—unless the good
sense of the landed interest of the United
States interferes in time.—To be moder
ate begins to be criminal—and to address
the judgment of those entrusted with the
awful right of changing us from peace to
war, is conlidered as treason.—Urge on
war ! is the tone amonj; men who are am
p}y paid and greatly trusted by a people
not frefc from the debt of a war founded
on morality, the nativity of independence,
and giving to their extensive country the
full bleflings of true liberty, with the mod
flattering profpecls that their dear children
\fhould enjoy the boon pofleffed, without
\he tax of the calamity to whiih their .fa
thers were exposed in procuring it.—l ue
disgraceful appellnt'on of Monarchist and
Aristocrat, is affixed to those who depre
cate war, by the impudent and unprinci
pled abetters of anarchy, who debase the
liberty they enjoy, by denying to their
fellow-citizens one of its mod precious at
tributes, the freedom of opinion.—Tell
ine whether the late proceedings of your
towns, bespeak. truly the sense of the
towns ?—And, whether if this be the
cafe, your country people unite with the
towns r—When I lived in Virginia, the
and holders ruled, and they ought always
o rule, if they mean to be happy."
;tte of the United States.
For the Gaz
Mr. Fenno,
OUR di (organizing party fay, leave the
work of govtrnm'en to our management.
We will let matters into a wonderfully fine
train—We will continue embargo afer em
bargo, for the benefit of trade. The Engliih
will not let us traffic in the Weft Indies, and
we will cut off at a stroke of our guillotine
all trade with England—We will break ail
the bones that we find whole in the Ikins of
Our poOr briiifed' merchants. We will pre
vent negotiation in order to prevent war—
We will fequeiler debts, prohibit all com
merce and'do our worst to scare the Engliih
men out of their wits, left we ihould be dis
pleased with them. In the mean time we
will go cm and reftri# trade very much at
leisure, we (hall have nothing else to do.
Thus for the love we bear our dear mer
chants, we will have no commerce. Our
zeal for peace is (hewn just as sensibly. We
lay (tumbling blocks in the way of negoci
ation. We scorn to treat when we have
taufe of war with England. When we have
a<3ual war with Algiers we scorn to do any
' thing but treat, In the firft cafe, treating is
plaving the fool, in the second, arming is
not better. To get ready for war, we talk
fiercely. We stab the revenue to the vitak,
forbid the importations which yield it, and
th*n llrong in poverty we defy all foes.
Without the (inews of war, we will provoke
It. Let us alone, and the national govern
ment (hall be dieted on ratsbane. No medi
cine of your federal quacks gives fych a tone
to the fibres.
Foreign Intelligence.
Continued from the London
received by Cafit. TruxTon.-
MANHEIM, January to. .
Field-Marshal Count Moellendorf, who re
places the Duke of Brunfwick in the com
mand of the Prussian Army, is expected in
a few days.
The French have set fire to the Palace of
Worms.
The French column that evacuated Krentz
nach on the 9th infiant, retreated beyond
Birkenfeldt, every where railing contribu
tions, and carrying ofFHoftages. It is thought
that that column will soon retreat beyond
the river Queich.
The Inhabitants are evefy where riling
on the Banks of the Rhine, and it is thought
thatfeveral Circles of the Empire will ihortly
furnifli an army of 100,000 men.
January 21.
Yefterdaythe Prufiiansattacked the French
befvWen Worms and Rhine-Durkhelm. The
cannonade lasted several. hours, but the issue
of the engagement has not transpired.
111 the afternoon t>f the 19th intelligence
was received at Oppenheim, that the French
were on the point of evacuating Worms, and
from the large volumes of fmofce which rose
from that quarter, there is reason to suppose
that that city has been set bn fire. We ex
peift the farther particulars,.
The Duke of Briinfwick is at Merttz,and
General Knobelfdorf has reached O]
heim.
The Republicans have upwards of iooo
waggons with them, which came from Lor
rain and Alsace, for the purpose of carrying
oft" the immense booty which they take in
this country.
The French were driven from the Village
of Marlheim on the 13th inft. with great
loss, the best part of their cavalry and in
fantry was killed. The reft made a preci
pitate retreat to Kirchheim, favored by a
thick fog. One of their advanced polls of
1100 men, Rationed in the wood, was en
tirely cut in pieces. The Prussians also took
on this occasion three officers, 48 privates
and upwards of 20 borfes.
We are this moment informed, that the
smoke seen in the environs of Worms, was
owing to the conflagration of the Palace, and
of all the buildings belonging to the Nobi
lity and Gentry.
CONSTANTINOPLE, Dec. 12.
Giafar Han, Sovereign of the. Chtrasf
one of the molt powerful Princes of Per
sia, has lately been dethroned by his 'bro
ther, Mahomft Han, who entefed into
the possession of his dominions—This new
Periian usurper is now threatening the
Turkish dominions with a powerful rtva
fion. i
A far more formidable enemy has late
ly riien in Arabia, who menaces the Sub
lime Porte with no less than a total fub
verlion of the Mahometan Religion and
ddtrudtion to the reign of the Succefiors
of the Caliphs.
This enemy'is a Schcich Hujabi, who
is at the head of a numerous Arabian
Tribe, encamped between Mecca and Baf
fora. He profcfles to deny the Divine
Million of Mahomet, the Sandtity of the
Alcoran, and all the Religious Ceremo
nies of Mahometanifm. He and his Tiibe
are continually adoring the Divinity in
the open field, defpiiing the institution of
Mosques or Temples. The Father of
this Arabian Chief, an old man of eigh
ty, is the Founder, and Principal Priest
of this new feit. The Rights and Laws,
he has > composed himfelf, and collated
in a book. It is much apprehended, that
he fuft acts of hostility of these New
Se£taries will be directed againlt Mecca
aod Medina, in order to render themfelvcs
masters of the immense treasures of the
Ottoman Empire contained in these two
towns.
Our Government seem in a sea of un
certainty, respecting the powerful Iman,
of Mafcaty of whom it is yet unknown,
which party he will embrace.
Camille Defmoulins lias been arretted
and conducted to the prison-house, lately
belonging to the Carmelites.
The famous Abbe Robert has been ta
ken up at Befancon, and the Chevalier
Fitlier has been arretted at Lille.
Charles Alexander Defcliarraes, natu
ral son of Brulard Sillery, and formerly
Aid-de-Camp to Dampierre, has been
ordered to be put in irons for forging a
paflport. Some others have been order
ed to be executed for iwcivifm. The trials
are ordered to be carried on with increased
speed, 'for the prisons are not fuffkiently
large to hold their vittims.
A letter from Mans, dated nth inft.
announces, that the royal and christian
army, on the left bank of the river Loire,
is daily increasing.
A great number of vessels and (hips of
different sizes are daily launched at C'hcr-
CONSISTENC Y.
Papers
bourg ; and the piepaiations for a descent
upon England are continued at Brest,
Havre, St. Maloes, Cherbourg, and in
• all the ports in the Channel, with the ut
most activity.
On the motion of Couthon, the Jaco
bins have appointed four commissioners,
charged to present an ast of accusation
again 11 all king?, to prefer their crimes
both in public and private character.—
This ast of accusation is to be sent by
the Jacobins and laid before the Revolu
tionary Tribunal for the public opinion.
Letters from Lyons mention, that the
executions continue without intermission.
The following letter was read in the fit
tings of the Commons on the 22d i
" We are in no want of Employment j
besides our other occupation?, wc-have to
watch great.number of traitors, and dif
PARIS, January 26.
caver their cbnfpirades. It is even be
come requisite to watch our own trpops,
who have (hewn foihe signs of incivifm.
" The demolitions advanci. The Po
pular Society would soon be cashiered, if
an armed force did not protect it. In
struction is the order of the day, for it is
in vain to discuss the great intereil of the
Republic, while the people are so unin
formed.
(Signed) " PELLETIER,
" Representative of the People."
The notary Brichard and his head clerk,
hatfe been arretted,and taken to the Concier
gerie, by order of the committee of general
fafety, for having negociated a loan, in 1790
fer the Prince of Wales. An interpreter
has been arretted on the fame account.
The Swiss have, according to4ptters from
Bade, made a present to the republic of sixty
thousand pair of shoes, a part of them have
been already sent to Huninguen. We are
aflured, that the Senate of Basle, received
with the moit'lively fatisfadtion, the officer
dispatched by the French General, to com
municate the late brilliant fuccelTes of the
republic.
NATfONAL CONVENTION,
January 12.
A letter from Tureau Bourbottc, re
presentatives at the Isle of Noirmoutier,
which they have called the Isle of the
Mountain, stated that they had taken all
the necessary precautions to guard this is
land, which might be called one of the
keys of France. They had established a
fuificient garrison, appointed an able en
gineer, a Sans Culotte c«mmander,' and
a revolutionary tribunal of a good ilamp.
—On the morning alter victory, the com
miffi mers, thinking that a number of roy
alills mi-;ht be concealed in the woods,
and among the rocks, ordered a general
hunt of them in the fame manner as of ra
bits : and this search brought forth an im
mense crowd of priests, of the wives of
emigrants, and others who hadconftantly
eluded the pursuit of the Republicans.
A military commission was lffued to try
tljefe people, and from General Delbec
downwards they had fuffered death.
•'You will.fee," fays the letter, "by
the copy of the interrogatory of Delbec,
that the isle of Noirmontier became the
retreat of these chiefs, only because they
were led v to eXpect these succors from Pitt,
to whom they, only fifteen days before,
had sent the Chevalier du
present to the English court a Have of the
forces, the resources and the wants of the
royaliitsin this part of France, agreeable
to the desire of the British cabinet, and
they found provisions for 20,000 men for
fix months.
Thursday, January 23.
The representative of the people, Le
quinio, writes from Rochefort, that the
ex-deputy, Dechezeaux, hasjuft paid the
forfeit of his crimes with his head. The
-republican ship, the Jemappe, of 74 guns,
has been launched, and will soon be fol
lowed by several others. The public
spirit of revolution is at its acme in these
parts.
The criminal code is not fufficiently se
vere ; or rather, it takes no notice of per
jury in criminal causes. This day the
National Convention decreed, " That a
falfe witness (hall incur the fame punilh
ment which would have been incurred by
the person against whom his falihood was
directed."
On the' proposition of Thuriot, the
question, whether perjury in civil caules
ought not to be punished with death ? is
referred to the committee of legislation.
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVEN TNG,
April 23.
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, called the
School for Scandal.
To which will be added,
A COMIC OPERA, written by the author
of the Poor Soldier, never performed here
called
Peeping Tom of Coventry.
Peeping Tom, Mr. Bates
Mayor of Coventry, Mr. Finch
Harold, Mr. Marihall
Crazy, Mr. Francis
Earl of Mercia, Mr. Green
Count Lewis, Mr. Cleveland
Maud, Mrs. Marihall
Emma, Miss Broadhurft
Lady Godiva, Mrs. Cleveland
Mayoress, M%. Shaw
Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarters
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a doliar.
The Public are cautioned tc.
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills 0 J
the Bank of the United States, and Twcnij
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
fevered of wbie'h have appeared in circulation
within a fe<w days past ; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but mxj
he dijlinguifhed by the following
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States. >
ALL that have appeared havz the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark. v
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in' the word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M. would extend con
siderably above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
The i and fin the word promise are not
parallel, the yinclining much more torwarj
than the i.
The engraving is badly cxecuted.the ftrolces
of all the Letters are stronger and the device
in the margin particularly is much coarser and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
»t the counterfeits bear date in I;gi Where
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
er, and no five dollar bills were iffiied in
"ihat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.,
? jK" '
•V-
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the-counterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described ; the engrav.ing is bettet exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine biJis.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, are in number thir
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar - Bills as*defer ibed a
bove, the o being Jess than the », and others
following.
There is no stroke to the / in the word Nortfc
Whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined. ♦
The lexers cnt in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do nor come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an trregufiU*
appearance to the word, the 7wand they go
ing below them.
The Signature J Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamp-black and
oil, and differs from the other inksufedin
printing the bills and the calhier's iignature.
It is supposed these forgeries were committed
in some of the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have, appeared, have come from
then«e, and tw6 j/erfons have been appiehencl
eti in V»rgmta,o«»4«{pTcto«i-of being the
of ihem.
The reward of QNE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any/Person or Persons who ihall
d'f-over and prosecute to convi&ion the feveial
offenders of the following descriptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or perfoos, who manufactured
the piper on which the Bill& are printed.
The person or pcilons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, ©f the bills.
Every person who has acted as a principal in
an / othe i» way, in the counterfeiting and utter.
mg the fa d bills.
March 28, 1794.
A P ril 22 » 1794.
Other counterfeit biJls
of the Bank of the United States liave appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS, and the alphabetical mark is the let
er B.
They may be diftingwftied from the genu*
n-jH. the following MARKS :
The pa ie oi ihccountrrfvits is of a niori
tender texture and gloiTey furt'ace than the
genuine, and there is no water mark in them.
The letter C. in the word Caftier, in the
true bills is strongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
ltroke, evdently in an unfinifhed Hate. The
letter si„ the word demand, is badly lonncd
and the whole word ill done, and there is no
comma at tJ>e end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills. 1
, *J 1 ?_ mar ginal device, is much* daiker ir*
e a e, than in the genuine bills owing to
the 'hade strokes being coarser, much nearer
ogetqer f and consequently much more nu
merous. This difference ftnkes ihe eye at firft
view.
nnr h T fame reward of ON E THOUSAND
ULLARS, will be paid for apprehending, &c
pro erutiksg to convi&ion several above
Offenders in ref peft to this, as to
the laftdefcribed bills.
p- Those persons who
undertake to cut limber or wood of any kind
whatever, from any lands of the teal cftate of
the laie Richard Stockton Esq. deceased, ia
the western precinct of the county of Soimerfet
in the Hate of New Jersey-, under a pietenceof
a right to cut on lands adjacent, are rcquelted to
desist sum so doing, will be proceed
i d against in such manner as may prqve trou
ble'» ne and exper,five to ihemfelves. V
April i 6. *w&S2W
MARKS.
THOMAS WILLING, President
of the United Slates,
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
peftive Boards.
{,*
PHILADELPHIA, -
APRIL 23. ,
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 22.
Capt. Kemp of the Ohio, arrived yrjierday
frotn London, has faifored us with Lon
don prints to the I $th February, from
which we have copied the following ;■—
N. Y. Daily Adv.
LONDON, February 7.
morning the arrival of the
Swallow Packet at Torbay, with the Most
Noble Max-quis Cornu-allis, and part of his
fuiti on board,was announced at the India-
House.
The Swallow left Madras on the ioth of
oflober.
When the Swallow left India, all the Pre
sidencies and poireffior.s bf the Company
■were in an unexampled state of prosperity ;
five lacks of Pagodas had been fen't to Ben
gal from Madras, and there were still five
lacks remaining in the Treasury of Fort St.
George.
Tippoo Saib had made all liis payments ;
aad what is still better given the mod ample
and decided opinion against the conduit of
the French, pledging himfelf to have no
concern or alliance with, the Convention.
The Nabob of Arcot and Rajah of Tan
jote bad also used the molt ardent and spirit
ed exertions in supplying our i orces with
provi(ion9,&c. on their march to
Lord Ilood having seen it arfeited in the
French Gazette, that a great ntynber of vef
fe!s had entered the Pott of Toulon, being
ignorant of its recapttTre, has unequivocally
contradicted this afiertion in his lait diipatch
es ; and'baa, moreover, written word —that
since Toulon was evacuated, only one Ihip of
any (lefcript!':n has entered that Port. From
this we mav judge what degree of credit is
due to the i eports of the French Convention.
According to the last dii'patches from In
dia, we are haipy to announce the fafe arri
val of Lord Macartney at Pekin. His Lord
fliip writes from thence, that he has been re
ceived by the Emperor of China with the
utmost civility ; and there is every profpeil
of the object of his embassy being obtained.
The Omnium was yesterday done at the
Stock Exchange, at the very low price of 1
half per cent, premium.
Two very conti adiclory reports concern*
ing Robespierre, have been in circulation for
these last few days. One states, that the
rifcn in favor cf Chabot r.nd Bazire,
nave afiemiiled round the houses of Robef
pierte and Danton with very alarming de
monstrations of difconte.it, and were Hill be
sieging thoi'e two famous Anarchists, when
the Courier who brought this intelligence
came away. The other on the contrary,
fays, that a plan is in agitation of declaring
Robefpiirre the Dictator of France.
We are not able to state the origin and
foundation of the firft of these rumours ;
but the lafter probably originates from the
following event:
Mr. de Bompere, Commander of a di
•vifion of the French Northern Army, re
ceived lately an expreis from Paris, which
informed him, that there existed at Paris
a very strong party in favor of Louis
XVII. Whose designs it were impoflible
to fruftrate by any other means, but that
of railing Robespierre to the dignity of
a Didlator ; and that he (Bompere) ought
to found the sentiment of the Army on
this fubjeft.
As Bompere seeming to express some
afloniftiment at this piece of information,
the emissary told him, that he must imme
diately acquaint him with what he meant
to do, and that his life was at stake
Upon which Bompere promised to com
ply with the request, but seized the firft
opportunity of effe&ing his escape into
Austrian Flanders. Count Kinflcy, an
Austrian General, to whom in judica
tion of his desertion, Bompere related
this tranfa&ion, caused his relation to be
printed, and a great number of them to
be distributed among the advanced posts
of the French Army.
A few copies have reached London,
»nd the above is the substance of the
contents.
Letters were received yesterday morn
ing from Flanders, which give art account
of preparations making at Dunkirk, now
called Dunes Fibres. They have already
21 gun-boats, and are arming fix others.
They are also preparing furnaces for heat
ing balls.
Letters from Turin, dated Jan. 11,
states, that the French, owing to the bad
weathei, were obliged precipitately to a -
bandon their posts, with the loss of bag
' g a g c . artillery, ammunition and men.
The report of Jourdain's disgrace and
arrest, which originated at Brufels is no
longer believed there.
Ascording to the accounts from the
Weft Indies, a great number of Ameri
can ships had been taken and feht into our
ports under the ordet of Nov. 6th. This
order* issued by our Minillers on no prin
ciple of justice or found policy, but in
the intoxication of imaginary success, and
as puiillanimoufly retracted as it wa9 incon
liderately issued, will thus be adted upon
for fevcral weeks, and the public will have
to pay all the expences incurred by the de
tention of the ships taken only to be res
tored. The effects of it in America will
be to convince every man that the Stated
ace not to depend for the security of their
commerce as a neutral nation, on the mo
deration of the Britifli Cabinet, but on
their own power to afford it prote&ion.
The Swiss Cantons have returned an
Answer to the Memorial presented by
Lord Fitzgerald, the Britifli Minister
This Answer, which has been given ever
fmce the 30th of November last, implies,
that it is the un alterable resolution of the
Cantons, regardless of the lcenes of hor
ror which France, paralized by anarchy,
.exhibits,to adhere to a molt inviolable fyf»
tem of Neutrality, it being a precept and
maxim transmitted to the Swil's by their
ancestors, never to meddle in Foreign
broils.
The extraordinary expences have arisen
in France to such a height, that in the
montli of November only, they amounted
to 227 millions of livres, which is more
than half of the yearly expence before the
Revolution.
We cannot expect any material news
from Flanders for some time. We have
feeji gentlemen who have returned from
Flanidert so late a> Friday evening. The
r«ads are impaffible'for the tratifportation
of cannon, which alone would prevent any
offenfive operatiory, were either party dis
posed to begin them..
A letter from Vienna* dated January
20, contains the following news r
" The objedl of the negociation of the
marquis Luchrefini has at last transpired.
The court of Berlin refufed to take any
part in another campaign, unless subsidies'
were paid to his Prussian majesty by the
EJmperor and the German Empire. These
have been granted. The yearly sum to be
paid by the Emperor and the Empire a
mountsto ten millions of florins; and his
Prussian majesty has bound himfclf, besides
his contingent to fnmifh an army of 40,000
men at the opening of the enl'uing cam
paign. v ; .
" His Imperial majesty has at length
given his consent to a War-Tax being im
posed on his fubje&s; but in order to
ease their burthens, he has at the fame i
time lefolved to fend a set of gold plate to
the mint, which was made under the reign
of Francis I. and colt above a million of
florins. x With the fame view he has also
leflened the expences of his court.
PARIS, February I.
All the Journals .own, the troops
of the Republic, evacuated Worms agree
able to the plan of their Generals, and not
owini to the valor of the Prussians.
A Letter from Cambray of the 30th
ult. states that a great number of Austrian
Huffarsjoin the Standard of the Republic,
and that desertion seems to be quite a con
tagion among them.
They write from the Port of the Moun
tain(Toulon), that eight fail of line are
nearly iCady for sea ; that our losses are
not so great as Were represented ; that the
Neapolitans left behind them 12 brass
cannon, and several suits of regimentals ;
and the Spaniards 4,000 bombs, besides
mufquets, &c. The English fleet conti
nues cruizng off the harbour.
By a letter from Rotterdam, dated Janu
ary 3'» J 794-
We are informed that the English,
had captured and carried into Jerfev,
Two American vessels; Captain Maley,
from Philadelphia, and Captain Bar-"
ret from Bollon, both of them bound
to Amsterdam : and also that the French
had captured an American vessel from Bal
timore, bound to Amsterdam, among
52 Englifti vessels.
Extradl of a Letter from London, dated
* February 12.
" The merchants have applied for a
convoy to be extended to American as
well as British {hips to and from Ameri
ca ; Ministry are grant it, but
require time to consider the propriety of
the e*tcnfion to yoar flag without an ar
rangement with your government; anc
Mr. Pinckney will probably be applied t<
on the fiibjeft
Capt. Burr of of the schooner George, Sr
rlved here yesterday, in 26 days from St.
Croix, informs us, that previous to his de
picture, Mr. John Dunlap, a resident of St.
Croix, had arrived from MafSaique, and
informed, that ]*ort Bourbon was stormed
and car.ied by the British on Sunday, the
13d of March, and that he was in the fort
on the Monday following.. Capt. Burr eould
not furnllh Any further particulars.
Philadelphia.
i A- Letter from an eminent merchant in
Newport to a gentleman in this City, in
forms that General Rochambeau is arriv
ed there from Martinique.
Yesterday the Legislature of this Com
monwealth, without day.
Last evening Capt Preston arrived in town
with dispatches from Major General Wayne
to the Secretary of War.
From Mr. Pitt, theßritifli Ministers speech
at opening the Budget or estimates of sup
plies of men and money for the service of
the current year —it appears, that out of
85,000 •Teamen voted for the second year of
the war, 75,000 of that number have been .
raised and muttered. The augmentation of
the land forces amounts to 30,000 men—
30,000 more are to be raised—the total vpte
makes the troops of that country, including
fencibles and militia to amount to 140,000
men—the ,'oreign troops in the Britilh ser
vice amount to between 30 and 4dthoufand.
The whole force by land and lea, to be em
ployed in the prosecution of the war amounts
to 250,000 men—here follow the estimates.
N A V t.
General service of-the navy,
Ordinaries,
Extraordinaries,
Tottl amount of the navy, / 5,535,900
ARMY.
General service,
Foreign troops,
Extraordinaries for 1793,
Total amount of the army estimate 6,339,000
ORDNANCE. -
Ordinaries, 324,000
Extiaordinaries, 377,000
Debt incurred last year, & unfunded 643,000
Total of the Ordnance,
Tetal amount of Navy, Army, and N
Ordnance, 13,409,000
Miscellaneous Services 206,000
Deficiencies in Grants 474,000
Ditto in Land and Malt tax 350,000
, Additional sum to the commiflioners
for discharging the National debt 100,000
Exchequer bills 5,500,000
Total amount to be provided fbr 19,939,000
WAYS AND MEANS.
Malt tax 3,750,000
Exchequer bills 3,500,000
Growing produce of taxes, after
answering charges of confoli
da: ed fund
From the Eift India Company
Loan
I 9>947>°°°
The produce of the taxes for the year,
ending the sth January, 1794, amounts to
13,941,0001. this is something less thai} the
produce of the year 1792, which was a year
of extraordinary prdfperity, and after a con
tinuance of peace for nine years. But, for
his calculation for the present year, Mr./Pitt
takes as upon a form'er occasion, an average
of four years, by which it appears that the
amount of the taxes for the next year, or the
growing produce of
The Sinking Fund, amounts to 13,914,000
Charges on funded debt 11,391,000
, Interest and charges, on the loan
for Spanish armament 250,000
Taxes which were laid on account
of this armament, and will soon
expire 156,000
Tet. charge on consolidated fund 11,797,000
Which left the growing produce,
from sth April 1793, to sth
April 1794 1,197,000
Hethen proceeds to state the extraordinary
expences of the prelent year above the peace
eltablilhment:
Excess in the navy 3,520,000
Ditto army 4,592,000
Ditto ordnance j? 170,000
Ditto mifcellarties 970,000
Extraordinaries a, 000,000
i ~ 11,252,000
A correspondent recommends to the con
" fideration of the advocates for Demo
cratic Clubs, the following judicious
observations of a writer in a late Bal
timore paper, the Maryland Journal.
Perhaps the writer of a piece signed
" A Democrat," may imbibe some
, *
4)420,000
555,000
54 7 >ocx>
4,362,000
1,169,000
808,000
m
1,345,000
2,i97>000
500,000
11,000,000
ideas from tlie perusal, that have hi-'
thdrto been a stranger to his mind.
" In a republic where men are alter
nately citizens and fovcrrigns, there is no
thing more easy than to lead them into
disorder, and nothing so uncommon as to
fee them, for any length of time, confine
themselves to the cxercife of their conjli
tutionalrights. Upon the leasE encourage*
ment they are ready to overleap these pre
scribed bounds, and call themselves into
clubs, fhat they may exercise a kind of
fovt'reignty over the sovereignty of their
country. When a people fuffer themselves
to drink out of this intoxicating cup,- the
duty of obedience soon becomes a grievous
burden, and the best of governments an
intolerable evil: 1 con fitter the institution
of political clubs, therefore, by whatever
name they may be called, as the firft stage
of a revolution, and the revolution as com
pleted in fad, though it may hot in form,
whenever the resolves of clubs ihall control
the resolutions of government* or their ft
cret combinations dirsft the choice of repre
fentatiiies. From that moment the repub
lic has changed its nature andceafed to be
free• But if clubs are the harbingers of
anarchy in a good government, they are
no less the forerunners of reform in a bad
one: In both- cafcs they ast by dejlroying,
and are as much to be dreadrti in the one
as encouraged in the other.
UNITED STATES.
STAUNTON, (Virg.) April 5.
Extratt of a letter from a "geatleman In
Frederick.(liuig-, to his friend in this'
town, dated 31ft uTt. gives us the fol
lowing information.
" Congress has laid an embargo on all
vessels in our ports, which has reduced the
price -of produce to mere nothing; no
man, willfcarcely buy any thing at present.
Goods in Philadelphia per yesterday's post,
has advanced $0 per cent, and none to be
got unless for ready money ; this you may
reft allured to be fact. War is the whole
topic at this time—and 15,000 men are
to be railed in 15 days to guard our fta
ports. Bad times indeed! produce on
hand and none to purcliafe—and goods
twice their Value—what will be the event
God only knows."
SHIP NEIVS.
Arrived at New-York.
Ship Ohio, Kemp, London
Brig Fox, Milienry," Philadelphia
Sch'r. George, Burr, . St. Croix
Sloop Friend (hip, Peterfon, Philadelphia
Rebecca, Swan, Bermuda
Philad. Packet, Bavley, Philadelphia
Richmond, Harding, Wilmington
Capt. Kemp informs us, that the Bel
videre, Depeyfter, and the American He
ro, Macey, left London between the lit
and Bth January, but did not leave the
Channel till early in February ; the Belvi
dere was obliged to cut her cable, and
was drove into the Isle of Wight. The
Ohio, Ellice, and Fadtor left the Downs
the 18th February, in company with near
200 fail of vessels, several of which were
destined for different ports in America;
among whom were the Delaware, Tfux
ton, for Philadelphia ; Major Pineknevj
Grice, for Charleston.
Th« Mary, Haley, had landed her let
ters at Falmouth early in January, but had
not arrived at London on the 13th Feb.
it was supposed (he was carried into
France, as lix frigates.wexe known
at that time to be cruising in the channel,
had taken several American vessels and a
large number of English vessels, particu
larly the Cork fleet. Lord Howe was
making great preparations for another
crutft.
The Columbus, Carman, from New-
York, is arrived at London.
The George of Boston; from Virginia
to London, was totally loft in the Downs,
vessel and cargo, crew saved.
Capt. Swan, on his paiTage from Bermuda,
spoke the brig Polly, Capt. Wheeler, from
Baltimore, bound to Antigua, out j days,
had been struck with lightning, considerably
damaged, and was f-tering for Bermuda.
The brig Columbia, Barnard, of Hudson
in this slate, was carried into Bermuda about
12 days before Capt. Swan failed,and libelled.
The schooner Mercury, Hoyt, from Bal
timore, (loop Commerce, Macey, from Phi
ladelphia, and a number of other American
vessels were'lying in Bermuda for trial.
The Sanfom, Smith, arrived in the Downs
the 18th February.
The January Packet from Halifax, arrived
at Falmouth in 14 days.
Cj* In yesterday's paper, In the Ship
News, after the word " Antigua," tile
words -were rcleafedi should have b?en in
serted.
ia* # 'Philadelphia, Marchi, <794. 1
JUST PUBLISHED,
v B/ MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market Jlrect,
IHE FIRST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography:
OR, A
Geographical, Hijlorical, and
Commercial Grammar;
And present state of the several
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CONT AIMING,
1. The figures, motions, and distances of
,the planets, accoiding to the Newtonian sys
tem and the latest observations.
2. A general view of the earth, conlidered
as a planet; with several ufefut geographical
definitions and problems.
3 The grand divisions of the globe into
land and water, continents and islands.
4» The iituation and extent of empires,
kingdoms, states, provinces and colonies.
5 Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, metals, minerals, natural cui i
ies, seas, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
aud lakes.
6. The birds and beads peculiar to each
country.
7. Observations on the changes that have
been any where observed upon the face of na
ture since the molt earjy periods of hiflory.
8. The history and origin of nations; tlieit
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
nues, faxes, naval and militay strength.'
9. The genius, manners, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
10. Their language, learning,arts,fciences,
manufa&ures, and commerce. »
11. The chief cities, fttuftures, ruins, and
artificial curiosities
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
distances of principal places from Philadelphia.
' /V tuLidi a!! added,
1. A Geographical Indek, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Tabl« of the Coins of all nations, and
their value in dollars and cents.
3. AChronoiogical TABLEofremarkable
events, from the creation to the present time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, E/q.
1 The Astronomical Part corretted by
Di . RittenHouse.
To whi<;h have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herschell,
aud other eminent Astronomers.
The First american edition,
Corrcfted, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
j The firft volume contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, beiides two Agronomical Plates,
VIZ.
i. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world.
3- Europe. 4. Asia. 5. Africa. 6. South
America. 7. Cook's discoveries. 8. Cofln
tries round the riorth Pole. 9. Sweden, Den.
ftiark, and Nurway. iO. Seven United Pro
vinces. 11 Austrian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. j2. Germany. 13 Seat of war
in France. 14. France divided into depart
ments. >5- SwitKrlaod. 16. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
18. Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire-
Hand. 23. Weft-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22. Ar
millarv 'sphere. 23. Copernican system.
With the lecond volume, which is now in
the press, will be giyen the following Maps :
1. Rullia in Europe and Alia.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
5.' China.
i, Hindoftan.
7, United States.
8- Britilh America.
9. State of New-Hamplhire.
jtS. State? of MairachuTetts.
ji< State of Connecticut,
j2. State of Rhode Island.
' j3- State of New-York.
:4- State of New-Jersey.
15- State of Pennsylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
j7- State of Maryland.
jB. State of Virginia.
19. State nf Kentucky.
20, State 6f Noith-Carolisa.
>)■ TennelTee (government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia.
TERMS.
j. This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the priee of bind
'"6i cents for boards.}
3. They may receive the fucreeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finilhed, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The rubfcription will be raised on the firft
day of Ju-ie 1794, to fourteen dollars, ex
clusive of binding.
5. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of bindiqg.
i. The names of the fublcribers will be pub
lilhed as patrons of American literature,
arts, and sciences.
It is wholly unneceflary to expatiate on the
advantage, to American readers, that this edi
tion poffefles, over every imported editioo of
any system of Geography extant. The addit
tion of maps of the several ft ate , procured a.
* very great expense, and from the best ma
terials that are attaiuabley ipcaks fncli ful
conviction on this fubjeft, that it would be
disrespeCt to the reader's nnderftanding to
fnppoft it requisite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its fuperioritjr. In no
fitnilar work have fucb maps bscoever intro
duced.
The emeudittons and Additions which are
made in this work,are innumerable, and qccuj
;H) eve«;y The public are referred to
t'.ie pieface for a flight (ketch of a few of
them.
The publisher takes the present opportu
nity of returuing hi iincere thanks to
tliofe iefpe<staUlc characters who have favored
him with documents for improving the maps
of several of the states. Hs requests a conti
nuance of their kindness; and hopes that such
public spirited citizens, as are poflefTed of fi
inilar documents, will favor him with their
I afliftance irt pferfeAing his undertaking.
The extrnordinary encouragement with
which he has been favored, has excited
| in his bread the warmest fehtiments of grati
tude—fentimcnts which time will not efface.
He pledges himfelf 16 the citizens of the
United States, to spare neither pains nor ex
pense to render the present edition ofGuthrie's
Geography improved, defcrvlng of their pa
tronage. wpftf
TO~BE~SOLD~
And entered upon thefirit ot May,
The noted Eflate, called
yohnjon Hall:
in the Mona wk country, state of New
Yotk, formerly the feat of Sir William John
son, containing about seven hundred acres of
land, which is of the very best quality ; toge
ther with theftock, and farmifcg utehfils. The
buildings are large and convenient, and fit for
a gentleman's feat. The payments Will be madfe
easy, on good For further particulars
enquire ot George Meicalf, Esq. oil the premis
es, of Silas lalbot, Esq. at Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Brothers, in New Yotk, or
of the lubfcribcr in Providence.
Jabez Bowen.
PViilad. March 26 mw&lim
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA?
In the Houje of Representatives,
DtCLMISER 2 1 it, 1 793*
WHEREAS ihe Commiiiioners of public
Accounts, have reported, that they can
not proceed io the investigation of the Tt**a-kr*y.
Accounts, rei petting special without
knowing the outstanding amount therfcof in cir
culation r—;-Therefore, ,
Rtfolvcd, That all holders of special Indents
be dire tied, and required, on or before the firft
day of November n xt, to deliver the special In
dents in their poflVilion to one or oilier of the
Commissioners of the Treasury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and lo rep >rt to ibeCom
miifioners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
there refpe&ively received, and alt, io the Le.
giflature, at their meeting in November next,
and that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury .as above, oo of before the firil day
of November next, ihall .be, and the fame are
heieby barred.
Rejolved r , That public notice of this resolution
be given <n the ievcral Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, urntl the fiitt day ot
Ntavember next. And that the Delegates ©f#his
State in theCongrefs of the United Sia'tes, be re
qurfted to cause this rtlolunon to be publtfhed
in one or mote papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and thai provision will be
made for the expeuces attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
.Senate for their concurrencr.
By order of the House,
JOHN SANfORD DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
i a 11 ft, 1 ygj.
Resolved, That this Hobfe (so concur wun the
Houlc ol RcprefrotativSi itt-the foregoing refo
fottons. "
Ordered, That the resolutions be lent to the
House of ReprefeiUatives.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov
Treasury Department,
Revenue Office, Apul 19, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals
will be received at the office of the ConrttiiH
lioner of the Revenue until the fljeth of May
next inclusively, for the fnpply of all Ra
tions, which may be required during the cur
rent year, at the city of Philadelphia, for
the recruiting lervice.
The rations to be furnifhedare to consist
of the following aitfcle<, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or 3 4 of a pound pork
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whiiky
One quart of fait,
Two quarts vinegar ( „
Two pounds soap Per .00 rations
One pound candles 3
April 22. mw&s2w
L
■k
Concluding Sales.
THE Subscriber having entcrtd into Co
partnerfitip with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the bulin'ft of Sugar Refining, wiildifpofe
of the
Remaining Stock on band
CONSISTING OF
ilver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By Wholesale at Prime Cost for Cajh.
John Dorfey,
No. 22, North 3d
ttith&s6w
ApriJ it.
(Cs* This Gazette Jhallbe enlarged, us it
receives encouragement —The Sulfcription
encreafes daily—Advertising Favors are
/elicited- —These conjlitute an ejjenttal Item
in diminishing the Deb it Jlde of the Accotutt.
The annual election
FOR
Directors and a Treasurer
OF THE
Library Company of Philadelphia,
WILL be held at the Library, in Fifth
street, on Monday the fifth of May nest, at
ih eeo'clock in the afternoon, when the trea
surer will attend to receive the aniiual pay
ments'
As there are several Ihares on which fines
are due, the owners of them, or their rep e
fentatives, are hereby notified, that they will
be forfeited, agreeably to the laws of the
Company, unlels the f»id arrears are paid off
on'the fifch day of May, or within ten days
after.
B)> Order of the Directors.
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN,
Secretary
m&vv tjth May.
April 7.
Just Imported,
In theJhip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peterjburgb in RuJJia, and now landing at
RuJJilfs wharf,
HEMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
"And for sale at the (lores of the fubfciiber in
Walnut fticet, No. 22.
John Donnaldfon.
April 4.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Ed-ward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Peteriburg in Russia,
And now landing at South-itreet Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRIS TLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 21, Walnut-street.
March 4,1794.
Lately Published.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, S.outh Second-Street:
HPHL Hiitory of Ncw-Hanipfhire, tiom the
X Difcovciy oi the River Pifcataqua—by J m
rcmiak Belknap, D. D. 3 Vols. Price in Boards,
4 I 2 Dollars.
Tne forrclter, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the Hiitory of John Bull the Cioihier.
Prcc, 75 Cents.
A DUcourfe, intended to commemorate the
Diicovery oi Amcrica by Chnilopher
bus,; delivered ai the rcqueil of the Hiitorucal
Society in JVlailachuleUs, O&ober 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Thiid Centui\,
fijnee that memorable event. To which are
added, Four DiHertations, conneded with the
fubjed—By the fame author. Price, 50 Cents.
March 17. luth&fow
To be Let,
For Merchants Co,noting Houses or Public
Offices,
I Two brick 3 Itory Houses,
H/IVING 61001ns in eat.l], with fire places
beside garrets, fuuate on the fouih wclterly (iue
of Dock, ilieet, between Pear and Walnut
ftreeu. Enquire of
BENJAMIN IV. MORRIS.
April 17.
Just Published,
In onehandfome volume, umo. Price 55
and for. sale by
JOHN ORMROD,
Sit Franklin's Head, No. 41, Second
Strert,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
.Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teyleriah Society at Haarlem.
Cor re Bed and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
Proleflor of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
ol Nature, and of Eccleliallica! History ;
and Miniller of theEngliih Chuicli at U
trecht.
Aliquid semper ad eornmun«*Ti utilitatem af
ferenilum Cicero.
Tlx Fir/2 American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality,*!' right
ly under Hood, is tile unjji basis on which
Umverfal justice, sacred order, and perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The vewof it exhibited in this
elTay, at the Tame tune that it rejrrelfes the
inl'olence of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages of oppieffion j confirm#, i n the
most iorcible manner, the necessity of subor
dination, and the just demands of law ful au
thority. So (ar indeed, from loosening the
bands of Jbciety, that it maintains'iiiviolate,
every natural and every civil dittinctiou,
draws more cloCely every (ocial tie, unites in
one harmonious and justly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, o< reciprocal obligation, and of -a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. tu&ftf I
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and fifth
Streets, adjoining the Epilcopal
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requeuing their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
ihorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaifes,kitle
reens, windsor fulkeys ard chaiis, and iiarneft
of every description, in the neatelt and ueweit
faftiion now prevailing *n the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best fe a foiled
wood by him, and capital workmen, he 'has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaAion so those wbopleafe to employ him.
He has for sale, leveral carriages alinoft;
fiuifhed, such as coachees, an Italian wind for
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaeton for
ene or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794 m&thjm
TcTbe~sold,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
' .is
IN aH eligible situation, —alio a Country Seat
within 6 miles of City, with 9 atioS< i*
land, or 42 acres of Jand and meadow, the
Houl'e is not exceeded bynruiy in the vicinity
of the city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
January 23
■ For f/ iuting by Suh/cription,
An Original Novel,
In Four Volumes, duodecimo.
Dedicated, by Pcrmiffion, to Mrs. Bingham,
Trials of the Human Heart.
By Mrs. IiOWSON,
Of the New Theatre, Philadelphia, Aatfcor
of Vi&oria, Inguilitor, Charlotte, Fiiie
da Charnbre, &c. &c.
u ' If t'le.e'sa posj'r above us,
<4 (And Mat there is, all Nature cries aloud
44 Thro'all her works) heinuft delight in
diw;jtawtf
4: virtue,
" Ami that which lie delights in, must be
" happy."
»*««»**• • •
" The foul, (ecur'ri in her exigence,
" At the- drawn danger, & defies its point"
I. The work to be printed with a neat tfpc
on good paper. »
11, Prjce to fubfcrihers four dollar* bound,,
tine half to.lic paidat the time of iubfcribing
111. The subscribers' names will bt prefixed
as patrons of the undertaking.
*.* Subl'ci iptioni are received by the Au
thor, the corner of Seventh anil Chefnut
streets, Messrs. Carey, Rice, and Dobtoi.,
Philade'phia— Mr. Gieen, Annapolis—Me'-
frs. Allen, Berry, and S. Campbell, Neve,
York—MeflVs. W tit, Thomas and Andrew
Blake, and L.irkin, Boftoi—Mi. Haiwtl,
Vermont—MeflVs. Rice, and Edwards,
t more—Mr. \V. P. young, Charleston.
April niu-At^ws
Just Publiftied,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMA S DOB SON,
At the Stone houie, No. South Second
Street,
Historical Colle&ions :
CONSISTTNO OF
STATE PAPERS,
Audpther authentic Documents, inteiidt-J at
materials for an History of the United Statis
ot America.
BY EBiNFZER HAZARD, A. M.
• tuth&sit
In two large quarto V»lu,His, price ten dol
tars in boards.
Sublcribers will be furniflied with the 2d
volume on paying three dol la, s and a quarter
—having paid five dollars and a quarter on
receiving the firft.
This second volume comprehends, among
other mtereiHsg pa, titulars, a compile co r
py of the Records of the United Colonies „f
N. England, in which the comfa&ef
mifljoners ielpe<stmg the general concerns of
the colonies—the neighbouring Indian*—and
tile Dutch at Manhattans (now New Yoik) is
particularly detailed.
I *„* Materials are collected fufficienf to
''rm a THIRD VOLUME, The time of
will depend <>n the encouragement
to be derived from i'ubfrriptioiis which will be
received by Thomas Dobfon, Philadelphia ;
Jere. Libbry, Portsmouth, New Hampfhiu;
Tuomas & Andrews, & Dav. Weft, Bolton; I -
ata Thouia, Wmxeiter ; Ifaae New-
Haven; Timothy Giceoj New London; Jacob
Richardson, Newport; John Carter, Provi
dence; Hugh Gaine, Thomas Allen,,, and
Samuel Campbell, New York; Fred rick
Craig, Wihniogtun, Delaware; James Rice,
Mr. Liudfe), Norlolk ; Dav d
Henderfoo, Fredericksburg ; John Grammar
P terfburg; Alfguftine Davis, Richmond; F
X. Marti", New be rn, C. John Bradley,'
Wilmington; and William Price Young Char
fcftofU
ApriJ 4.
PHILADELPHIA:
PjustrED by JOHN FENNO, No •
C-...LU .1
m&th—tf
OPOSALS
ENTITLE .D,
CONDITIONS.
mwfcfgur