9
E V ENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 115 of Vol. V
PIRACY!
£3"* THE schooner DELIGHT, the pro
perty ©f Manual Aiwonio Martin, of the If
lanriof Bona Vista, was on the 18th of Oc
tober last, while lying at anchor in the road of
that I (land, forcibly entered and carried off
bv TOHY DUNHAM, JOHN MURRAY, a
man by the nftme of DODGE, and one other
feerfon, name urtknown. —This vessel xvZs fold
. , m. A. Martin; by William M'Neili, who
c ame to Bona Vista in her, from Madeira.—•
S'ie was btsiit in the county of Matthews,
Oate of Virginia, and was registered at New-
York, the 16th April, 1793— Her name was
pTMi'ed on her Oern—Her dimensions as ioU
Jowl: 56 feet 6 inches keel, 16 feet 6 inches
Heapi, hold 6 l'eet 2 inches, her burthen 54
t™ S * er
At the time of their entering the vessel,
.there was a black man on board by the name
of Balthazer, whom they carried off with them.
J t!in Dunham was mate of the- velfel under
Capr. M'NeiM, prior to the sale of her, and
the other perfcms were mariners. Dunham
is_a married man, and has a family at Nan
tucket.
Tilfc cargo of the vessel consisted of the sol
' lowing articles.-—2 caP s containing 74 pieces
Linen; cafe Wnie-Glatfr' ; 1 bale containing
q pieces Broadcloth; 1 do. 9 do. 79 piece*
Cotton, (needle worked) —,33 do. do inferior,
2 m -ys of Salt; Hie had (even small arms and
some pistols.
If any person can give any information
this veil Tel, or any part of the property, fothat
it can be recovered, or the offenders* brought
oj juft'.ce, they are rrqietted to inform Mefirs.
Joseph Anthony and Son, Philadelphia ;
Mu it k ay and Mumford, New-York ; Clark
and NrGHTfKGALe, Providence; or Head
and Ampry, Boston.
March 17.
FOR SALE,
■ ■ ,£Y THE SUBSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
superior quality in pipes, imported in the thip
"Wil nington.
OLD SHERRY WINE of the firft quality
in quarter casks, impot ted in the brig Nancy
, capt. Gwjn f fr nj Cad'z.
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RMSfNS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIFFE WINES,in pipes
hhds. and quarter calk';, imported in the fhlp
Tnomas, capt- Skinner.
A few quirter calk 1 ; of old particular bill
of exchange IVJADEIRA WINE*
George Meade,
Who has also, just arrived and for sale
' A SMALL CARGO OF
Lijbon Salt.
A quantity of empty BAGS for sale.
April 5. w&sim.
The following Certifi
catc of the funded three per Cent Stock of the
Domestic Debt of the United States (landing on
the bookk of the Treasury of the said United
States, in the names of Donnald and Burton of
London, ineichants, and signed by Joseph
Nouife, Register of said Treasury, to wit
No. 5476, dated 2.fh August 1792 for 29/59
dollars and 53 cc nts was tranlmitted from Lon
don in the fh'rp Peter, Paul HuflTey, master,
bound for New Yoik, and-has been loft.—
The Subscriber intending to apply to the Trea
sury of the United States to have the fame re
newed, desires all persons who are intecefted in
the said certificate, to make their objections
thereto, ;f any they have.
Francis Macy.
Philad. March 27. d6w
FOR SYLET '
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Mai ket-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery,
Designed to exhibit in a new point of view
its effetts on morals, induflry, and the peace of
Jociety. Some facts and calculations are offered
<0 prove the labor offreemen to be much more
produflive than that ot Jlaves ; th2t countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of rheir own
labor ; and hence the n ctffjiy conclusion, that
flavcry is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February 15.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogsheads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
* V, ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter casks,
FOR. SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front Urcet.
J»n. a, 1794. dtf
of ft)t IfJmfei |p
For Norfolk & Fredericks burgh,
JTTLF.*SALLY.
John Earl, Master.
A staunch good .vefltl, will fail in a few
days. For freight or pflage, apply to the
master on board at Chefnut ftreat wharf, or
to
JOSEPH JNTHO NT 1$ SON.
March 31. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
JCK ANDROMACHE.
(An American bottom)
iS a stout good veflVl, about two years old,
burthen 232 tons, has only made three voy
ages, and may be r eni to Tea at a small etf
pence. Slie may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
.and the terms made known bv application to
WHARTON C5 3 L EIViS.
dtf
March 2t,
For Amsterdam,
. The new fall-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
g|g§ ADRIAN A,
K. Fitzpatrick, Master.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or passage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. PalTengers will be lauded in Eng
land if required. '
March 6, 1794 dtf
di w.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Duck,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, -viz. Tumblers and Mugs, "va
rious Jizes
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and fiat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c. &c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale
Ihouldapplication be made within a few days ;
othernuife Jhe <will take freight for Amjler
dam.
March 1, 1794.
The Profits arising from the follo-.ving publi
cation are for the benefit of the Poor.
Just published, printed by R. Aitken and
Son, and fold by J. Cruklhank, W. Young
T. Dobfon, and the other Booksellers,
MINUTES
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed on the 14th September 1793, by
the Citizens of Philadelphia, the Northern
Libarties, and theDiftrift of Southwark,
to attend to and alleviaie the fufferings of
the affli&ec! with the Malignant Fever,pre
valent, in the City and its vicinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
A lift of persons admitted into the Hospi
tal at Bush-hill, (hewing the times of their
admiflion, death and discharge.
dumber of Houfcs, Deaths, &c. in the
refpe&ive streets, alleys, and courts in the
C Philadelphia, Northern Liberties, and
Diftrift of Southwark.
A lift of the Interments in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia, Northern
Liberties, and Diftritft of Southwark, with a
meteorological account of the weather.
A summary of donations in calh and provi
fions, received from sundry persons and pla
ces, for the us.- of the poor and afflicted
A P ril 2 ; d 3 w
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Houfej or Public
Office Si
Two brick 3 story Houses,
HAVING 6100 ms in each, with fireplaces
beside garrets, fituatej on the Tooth westerly fide
of Dock ftrrct, between Pear and Walnut
streets. Enquire of
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
A P nl '7-
' ' _ 4
« " *
AND
Saturday, April 26, 1794*
d—tf
CONTAINING
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
No. 41, joutb Second Jireet,
Extract of a letter from a gen
tleman in America to a friend in England, on
tlieSubjeft of Emigration—price 1 Bth of a
dollar.
Ecclefta/lical EJlabhJhments detrimental to
a State.
Price I 3 at a Dollar.
April 22.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Peterlburg in Rufiia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG'S BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-ilreet.
diw.itawtf
l«4*-*79*-
La J\
sojLd by
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 4.1, South Second-Str£et :
THE History of New-Hampshire, fiom the
Difcovcry of the River Pifc2taqua—by ft
rcmiah Belknap, D. D. 3 Vols. Price in Boards,
4 I -2 Dollars.
The Forreftcr, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Clothier.
Prce,.7£ Cents.
A Discourse, intended to commemorate the
Discovery of America by Christopher Colum
bus; delivered at the rcqueft of the Hillorical
Society in Massachusetts, O£lober 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Thud Century,
since that memorable event. To which are
added, Four DilTertations, connected with the
fubjeft—By the fame author. Price, 50 Cents.
M fch 17. . ' fhttTAEfow
Lately
O
the Tame author.
TO BE SOLD*
A large elegant House,
> •'
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation,—also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of Jand and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
January 23 ni&th—tf
TO BE SOLD,
And entered upon the fit ft ot May,
The noted EJlate> called
Johnson Hall: *
Lying in the Mohawk country, Rate of New
York, formerly the feat of Sir William John
son, containing about seven hundred acres of
land, wtych is of the very bed quality ; toge
ther wfth the flock, and farming urcnfiU.
buildings are large and convenient, and fit for
a gentleman's feat. The payments will be made
easy, on good security. For further particulars
enquire of George Metcalf, Esq. on the premis
es, of Silas Talbot, Esq. at Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Brothers, in New Yoik, or
of the fubferiber in Providence.
Jabez Bow en.
Philad. March 26 mw&lim
ADVERTISEMENT.
OF the money robbed from the mail near
Baltimore, by Doftof Gant, no dollars were
afterwards Tent by'jn unknown hand, to the
Poftinafter at Baltimore, who transmitted
the fame to the General Post Office; The fuf
ferers by that robbery are desired to state the
amount of their lofles refpeQively, and trans
mit the fame, with the original letters of their
correspondents where recovered) or other
evidence thereof to the General Post Office,
before the firft day of June next, immediate
ly afier which a dividend will be made among
the claimants.
TIMOTHr PICKERING,
Post MaJler Genera!.
Gen. Pnft Office, April 4, 1794 taw6w
£r Those persons who
undertake to cut limber or wood of any kind
whatever, from any lands M the real estate of
the late Richard Stockton £fq. deceased, in
the western precinct of the county of Somtfrfet
in the state of New Jersey, under a pretence of
a right to cut on lands adjacent, are requefte<J to
desist from so doing, or they will be proceed'
ed againlt in such manner as inay pi*>ve troil
blcfome an<? expensive to themfeives.
April 16. *vv <3csfcvr
tales •
[Whole No. 511.]
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE..
GENOA, Jan. 10.
The following picture will give those
who are desirous of obtaining a just idea of
the affairs of Genoa, which continue to
be greatly embarrafted some information
on that fubjeft. The members of gov
ernment, that is, the whole nobility are
of course all ariflocrats, some young men
excepted. It would have been easy, es
pecially after the capture of Toulon, ■to
have induced the Republic to declare in
favor of the combined powers. Govern
ment would have found no opposition
fiom the class which you call commoners,
nor from the people, for fay what we
will, the general interell of Genoa is to
preserve its tradfe : that of guarding its
property veiled in the funds "of France,
is but a secondary motive ; but, in con
sequence of the extreme violence of the
English, the pro'penfity of the second
class who are rich and of the people who
are not without energy, is entirely chao
ged. This injultice has at length produ
duced a spirit of independence. The
recovery of Toulon, which would render
an invalion of Genoa on the part of France
more practicable, added to the just con
dudt of the French with respect to the
Republic, has confirmed this change of
sentiment, and neutrality at all events is
to be maintained. As the government
has no power except when it has the ge
neral voice in its favor, a revolution might
be expected, were it to adopt a different
conduct. Hence, the'refufal of treating
with Sir Gilbert Elliot at La Spezzia.—
The government dares not fuffer the Ge
norfe and the French to imagine it is in
clined to abandon its neutrality. This,
like wife, accounts, for the effedts which
have been produced bj the artful negoti
ations of Mr. Drake and Lord Hood.
MADRID. Jan. 20.
It should seem that the court of Spain
interefled in the re-eftabji(hment of the
House of Bourbon ought to have .found
no difficulty in acknowledging Monsieur
Regent of France. Such, however,is the
wtaknefs of this court, and its want of
confidence in its allies, that it dares not
venture on this conduct. The title of Re
gent had been given to Monsieur in the
court almanac; but the edition was Sudden
ly withdrawn, and the sheet in which the
title flood reprinted.
A part of the army of Roufillon is
gone into cantonments; it is reduced to
18,000 men fit for service. Epidemical
fevers ftiU continue, and the number of
sick and wounded is effimated at 16,000
The Spaniards being in possession of the
town of Collioure, and the forts of St.
Elme, and the Bellgarde, hope ro main
tain themfelve6 in Roufill on, by flrength
ening their army with 20,000 recruits,
raised as it is said, by government. But
tho' they feel the necefiity of quickening
the flow motion of the Spaniards, if they
would refill the impetuosity of the FrcncTi,
and though conncils have often been held *
at Madrid, to which the bed informed mi
litary men have been called there is every
reason to fear,the French will soon assault
Perpignan in mass, and that the Spaniards
will be reduced to endeavor to flop their
progress in the defiles of Catalonia.
It is affirmed, that the Vice Admiral
Borgia who commands tha division of
Cadiz, will go to Carthagena, and (Com
mand the squadron which is to remain in
in the Mediteraneart. Jit is prefumeel that
Langara will go to Cadiz, and perhaps
ast iu concert with English on'the ocean,
COWES, Eng. January 30.
The Heflian cavalry, 900 in number,
are all landed, and the flores of Mr. Al
derman Macaulay and other proprietors
converted into stabling for their accom
modation.
The horse& begin visibly to recover their
wonted flrength and animation, and will,
we have no doubt, in a (hort time make a
rtfp«stable appearance.
mw&fsw
(hed.£
The infantryV in number 2000, r<?main
jn board the transport& which are moored
to the quays, but *i fern bark daily Ui air
and e^ercife.
General Hunter's brigade, ConGftu.g of
S4 tl '» 57th, and 59th regiments of
British troops, is to continue at this place
—the 78th Highland reginu'nt marched
yesterday for Newport, to be quartered
there for the winter.
Lord Moira occupies the house built by
the late Mr. Mark Gregory, and receives
daily, at a splendid table, the English and
foreign officers of diftindtion- —they princi
pally compose his ftaff.
In the harbor are, upwards of 100 fail
transports and vessels of different nati
ons.
LONDON, Jan. 18.
THE twelve royalists, arrived at Jer
sey, are said to come from Anciene,
v hence they have reached the coast of
Biitanny, and effected their escape on
board a vessel they found near the coast.
These gentlemen, no doubt, belong to
the corps of general Biron which accord
ing to the reports read in the Convention,
waß on the 22d of December, defeated
and dispersed near Avernay. I his corps
confuted of no more than 4000 men.
The accounts of those fugitives cannot,
therefore, inform us of the situation of
the corps of royalists on the right bank of
the Loire, and still less of those on the
left banks of this river, under the orders
of the Chevalier Charette.
But however this may be, certain it is,
that Lord Moira is continuing his prepa
rations for the intended descent. Some
people are apt to find fault with the slow
ness of its execution, because it enables
the Republicans to encreafe their means
of defence. But the wisdom of our go
vernment, and the prudence of the gene
ral to whom this important expedition is
entrusted, entitled to suppose, that all the
obftaclfs able to oppose its success have
been forefeen, and the most effe&unl mea
sures taken to counteract them so as to
ensure success.
A rumour has been spread, that the Em
• peror now refines the troops promised for the
above expedition. But we are convinced
that this report is groundless, and that his
imperial majesty, instead of withdrawing
his assistance in the execution of this enter
prize, would readily encreafe it if required.
The revenue of the customs for the last,
quarter,ending the sth January, 1794, ex
ceeds the fame quarter of the former year,
in the sum of 486,5791. 16s id. This
branch of the publis revenue has certainly
not felt any mateiial deficiency by the
war.
Account! from Alexandria state, that
the caravan, which goes every year from
Mecca to Grartd Cairo with all forts of
the molt precious merchandize has been
attacked and totally pillaged by a nume
rous horde ot Arabian banditti..
February 12.
The-Editor of the Leyden Gazette,
the fri*nd of truth and liberty as far
as the circumstances under which his pa-
per is published will permit, introduces
the Speech of Mr. Washington, on open
ing the Congress in December, with the
' fallowing preface:
" While Europe, towards the close of
the eighteenth century, presents an afpeft
the most doleful to philanthropy, deeply
afflitted by the, inconsiderate zeal with
which men rush into opposite extremes,
equally averse to public happiness; it seems
to havp been reserved for the New-World
to furni(h the consolation of this melan-
choly period,&, perhaps an asylum forthe
friends of freedom, the basis of permanent
tranquility. The U'ited States of Ame
rica, afford the example of a government
truly just and moderate. For this, next
to the public spirit and a national charac
ter of equity and wisdom, they are in
debted to some great men ; among whom
none will dispute the firft place with the
illustrious Washington. It is impossible to
read, but with real pleasure the successive,
produdtions of his pen, either as a states
man or a soldier."
SUPPLY.
The following are literal Copies of Mr.
Pitt's Resolutions.
iod per gallon on single brandy imported'
2od on brandy above proof im-
ported
8d on rum from the British
Colonies
l6d
• «d
l«d
---l
on ditto above proof
- on warehoused rum
on over-proof ditto
on single spirits imported
20 d — on over-proof ditto
To be paid by the Importers.
id per gallon for Wash for extracting
Spirits for home confnmptioii
id per gallon for Cyder and Perry, or any
. other wash for ditto
2d per gallon for wash made from refufed
wine, 01" foreign cyder
28 8d for every' 96 gallons of wash made
by Bifliop of Maidftone »
To be paid by the makers ordiftillers.
half-penny per gallon for spirits made
in Scotland and imported
Also an additional duty in proportion to
the over proof
To be paid by the importers. f
2od per iooo on bricks
lßd ditto on plain tiUs
4s 6d per 1000 on pan tiles not exceed
ing to inches square '
26 2d ditto addition exceeding ten inches
is iod per 1000 for tiles other than the
above t|
To be paid by the makers.
And a drawback to be allowed on expor
tation.
ll 3s 4d per cwt upon books imported
is 6d for every 1000 bricks imported
is iod per 1000 plain tiles imported
49 iod per 1000 for pan or ridge tiles
imported
is iod per 1000 for ditto above ten in
ches
is iod per 1000 for all other tiles imported
los per ton npon dates carried coastwise
2s 6d ditto upon (tones, gurnet and mar
ble »
That the duties of excise on papers, paste
board, mill boards, scale boards, and
glazed paper, do cease, and that there
be charged in lieu thereof.
No I. 2d half-penny per lb excise duty
upon paper for Writing, drawing and
printing
No 11. id per lb upon coloured and whit
ed brown, except elephant and cartridge.
No 111. Half-penny per lb for writing
paper
No IV. 2d half-penny per lb upon all
other papers, except (heathingand but-
ton,paper.
No V. ios6dpercwt upon pasteboard,
milboard, fcaleboard and glazed papers
A drawback to be allowed 011 exporta
tion.
That the duties of Customs of the above do
cease, and there be taken in lieu thereof,
iof! per lb. on.No. I. imported
2d per lb. on No. 11. imported
6d per lb. on paper hangings imported
iod per lb. on all other papers imported
2s per cwt. upon pasteboards, &c. imported
jos 8 3-4 on flint glass imported
3 farthings on materials used in mak
ing window glass
A drawback of 8d 3 farthings on every foot
of Plate glass imported
14s 6d per cwt. on flint glass exported
9s 1 id per ditto, on crown ditto, exported
id 3 farthings per foot on French plate ditto
exported
14s on French Plate ditto, imported
9s lid on French Window ditto, imported
14s per cwt. on other glass imported '
10s 8d three farthings per cwt. on plates of
glass not less than 1485 square inches,
made in Great Britain
A stamp duty of iool. upon contrails of
perfor.s serving a 9 clerk to attorniss
iool. admittance for every attorney
501. for contrails of clerks to Attornies'in
courts of confidence
501. for admittance of attornies in the Welsh
courts
That the additional duties upon foreign spi
rits imported, granted and continued by
Adts of 31 Geo. III» be made perpetual.
Also upon sugar by A£i 31 Geo. 111. be made
perpetual
Also a drawback on sugar, allowed by the
fa'id a£l, to be made perpetual
That the said duties be carried to the conso
lidated surd.
HOUSE OF COMMONS.
Februa.y 6.
The LOAN and TAXES.
Mr. Hobart brought up the report of
the different resolutions moved yesterday
by the Chancellor of the Exchequer in
the committee of ways and means, for
raising money by loan, and creating a fund
rising out of new taxes for paying inter
est for the fame.
The Clerk, according to the usual
form, read the resolutions twice—on the
second reading.
Mr. Fox rose, not for the purpose of
giving any opposition to the resolutions,
but simply of afkng for some information
on a fubjeft, which did not appear to him
very clear. He observed, that the Chan
cellor of the Exchequer, in the course of
his speech yesterday, had drawn a compa
rison between the produce of the perma
nent taxes of two different years, on which
he grounded his opinion of the probable
future produce that might be expe£ted
from them. The account of the last year
ending the sth of O&ober, 1793, from
which it appeared fliat the total produce
of all the taxes for that period amounted
to 14.800,000!. but then from the sum
mil ft be deducted the pr6duce_ of t axes
that were not permanent, and which could
not of course be takes as part of a per
manent fund. It was stated in that ac
count that no less a sum than 700,0001.
was deducted from the above sum, be
cause such was the amount of temporary
taxes, if then this statement was correct,
it would follow that the' Right Honora
ble gentleman had greatly overrated the
fund, which might be considered as per
manent ; and consequently he would next
year have occasion to apply for aid to
make good a deficiency in a fund which
he considered ycfterday as productive to
the amount at which he had taken it.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer said,
that he had proceeded upon the most au
thentic accounts that he could procure,
and he believed, they were perfectly ac
curate. He had firft estimated the gross
produce of the taxes, forming the aggre
gate fund at 15,400,000!. and from this
sum he had tJedufted what had been paid
into it out of the produce of temporary
taxes, and afterward made allowance for
the defalcation that would be occasion
ed by taxes already repealed, or about to
be repealed, which, together amounted to
io,oool. so that the sum which he
might return as permanent, would be
15,290,0001. The printed account of
the three fitft quarters of the year 1793,
quoted by the Hon. gentleman, was very
authentic and correct; the difference be
tween it and that on which he himftlf had
argued might arise from the different way
of making up accounts in the different
departments of the revenue. In the cus
toms, for instance, was generally given
the gross receipt, without mentioning
how much was to be paid out of it under
the head of drawbacks 01 bounties; —
wljilfl the accounts made up at the Exche
quer stated the films actually paid in
there ; so that on the firft view of the to
tals of the two accounts, it would seem
as if there was some very capital mistake
in one of them, though in reality there
was none.
After some little farther conversation,
from which it appeared that Mr. Fox was
fatisfied with the explanation givea by
Mr* Pitt, the Speaker put the question
on each resolution separately, whieh paf--
fed witheA any observation, except that
when the resolution for laying an addi
tional tax on bricks, slates, titles, &c.
> *
Col. Bastard said, thati in the Weft of
England the principal manure of the
country was marie ; lie hoped therefore,
that care would be taken in the framing
of the bill which should be brought in on
this lubjeft, that marie so used should rot
be lubjeft to the tax.
No one spoke in consequence of this
observation, so that the refutation passed
without further remark.'
And then the quest-ion was put on the
last resolution, for iubjefting every person
to be admitted in future to ast as an at
torney to the payment of I 001.
The resolutions having been all confirm
ed by the house, it was ordered that Mr.
Hobart, Lord Mocnington, Mr. Rose, &c.
should prepare and bring in bills founded
on the fame.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Sunday February a
On account of the great influx of business
prefling on the committee of General Safety,
the care to watch over the fabrication of
falfe Aflignats was transferred to the Com
mittee of Aflignats and Money, this Com
mittee empowered to ifiue mandates of arrefl.
General Laroque, on trial before the Re
volutionary Tribunal, desired that the whole
army in which he served, might be examined
as witnefies. The Convention considering
this as an artifice to evade justice, ordered
that the Tiibanal ihould pay no attention
to it.
Ordered that the Council of Health pre
pare a report, on a plan discovered by Guiton
Morvauxj for purifying the air of hospitals
at a fmatl expence.
The Committee of Vigilance of the de
partment of Paris denounced a woman who
had fold her daughter to prostitution. Re
ferred to the Committee of General Safety.
The Committee of Public Safety propo
sed a decree on the Marine, which was adopt
ed. The fame Committee proposed,, that the
Capt. and officers of any ship of the line that
should flrike to less than double her own
force, (hould be punilhed with death, as trai-
tors to their country ; and that the mar nun
who should take a ship one third Itroii-er
than their own, should be rewarded and «>-
moted.
The Committee of General Safety propo
sed to releaje Generals Roufin and Vincent
no charge had been preferred!
Leonard Boudon said, the Committee of
had heavy charges against the m
both.
Danton said, there was reason to fear that
these.charges, made by Pbilippeaux, were
the offspring of malice; that the indiscre
tions of Roufin and Vincent were the effe£l
of patriotism too ardent to be prudent—and
the Convention decreed their releaft.
Monday, February 3.
The National agent writes from Chateig
neraye that the National Guards of the free
Communes of that diftrift are employd
night and day in hunting the Rebels like
beasts of prey. They had just brought in
an ex-noble of the name of Marai, late pre
sident of the Revolutionary Committee at
Bretigny. He owned that he had lived for
fix weeks in the woods. He had a quantity
of affignats upon him.
From the American Minerva.
I TO THE AMERICAN PUBLIC.
THE answer of the Swiss Canton' 3 to
the Declaration of Lord Fitzgerald, pub
lished in the Minerva of yesterday, furnifh
es a most brilliant lesson for all good pa
triots in America. These Cantons enjoy
almost exclusively the little portion of
freedom left under the old governments
of Europe, as the United States do the
freedom of the New World. The allied
powers have been inceflantly importuning
the Cantons to take pait in the waragaifl
France, as certain Jacobin EmifTaries and
incendiaries have been plotting to drag
America jnto the war in favor of France.
But the parallel goes farther. The Swiss
Republicans fuffered most attrocious in
sults and indignities from a fait ion in
France, and nearly one thousand of their
brave soldiers were mafiacred on the 10th
of August 1792, without a crimt. Jnft
so the United States have been robbed
and plundered by the Britilh cruisers of
an immense amount of property', and their
seamen and flag grossly insulted. As the
allied powers made use of the massacre of
the Swiss guards to inflame the resent
ment of the Republics, and made them
take part in the war ; so the incendiaries
of France and America have made use of
the injuries done to our trade to hurry us
into a long' "desolating war.—There is
something very interesting in this compa
rison.
But mark the words of the Cantons
in their note to Lord Fitzgerald—Listen,
ye incendiaries, ye fire-fide heroes, ye ene
mies of your country, listen, and leam
wisdom from the brave and venerable Re
publicans of Switzerland—They £av
" However afflicting the remembrance
of those terrible'evcnts in France (which
your excellency has brought to our recol
lection) and the fad fate of our brethren
who fuffered so unfortunately may yet
our grief must nevertheless yield to the
principles of our constitution : these prin
ciples have relied for several centuries on
the relations of peace, amity, and good
neighborhood with all the surrounding
powers.
" Tile operation of these principles hes
never been interrupted by foreign wars.—
A rigid and exact neutrality was the inva
riable maxim of our ancestors, and having
received it as a sacred inheritance, we have
conceived it to be our duty to abide by it
in the present was. And this conduct has
produced a salutary influence, not only on
our external fafcty, but on our internal
peace."
Mark the last sentence—it is full of
good sense and found political reason.
They procced to declare that accustomed
to observe scrupulously all engagements,
they will not wanderfrom their neutrality
—and they will unite their foice to repel
even the flighted attempts to disturb their
repose.
In this resolution of the Helvetic body,
there is found morality, and true national
policy united with the dignity of a free
government. Revenge is laid ojit or the
question—the unprovoked Haughier of
nearly a thousand of their btethren, com
mands their grief, but does not change
their policy—They will not rife ten thou
sand lives to revenge the loss of one, thou
sand ; nor plunge millions in distress to
gratify a favagc p'a/jfen. How heroic this
conduct, and how a:niab'ca.s well zspatri
otic the principle from which it springs!
Reflect on the Swiss Cantons, ye falfe pa
triots, who would cxpofe thousands of
lives, and thirty, perhaps forty millions of
(
.
1inoify to punilli Great Britain, and re
venue the loss of a million or two of pro
perly. View the example of the brave
Reyublicaps of Switzerland, and learn
trash and wisdom.
UNITED STATES.
r BOSTON, April 11.
To :h- Trustees of the Humane Society in
Boston. ,
Eu/l Wind/or, (Con.) 1794-
H - who saves the life of another is a bene
factor Co mankind. The following cafe of
one laved from drowning, whole condition
appeared helpless, is mentioned with an ear-
Belt wifa that any who may providentially be
in a Similar dreadful fifUation, may experi
tnjetne happy t ffefls of the experiment.
Several years ago, Mr. John BjJTell who
kept a ferry in this town, and with whom 1
was acquainted piloted a footman and his
wife over the river on the ice, a small lnow
had fallen the night preceding, and hidden
the path, and rendered it unfafe for ftrangei s
to pals without a guide, on account of the
openings or breathing places frequent in fro
zen rivers.
A lad about 11 years of age, who lived
W ;th Mr. Biilel followed his mailer. There
was a hole cut through the ice, near the Ihore
for the eonveniency of cattle to drink. The
lad went .*> the hole, and while amusing
himfelf with piliing the snow into the wa
ter, his feet flipped and he immediately dis
appeared. The water was of considerable
depth.
Mr. BifTel, with a pretence of mind un
common in fucli sudden furprtfe, ran to the
Ihore and seizing a large billet of woo ', yid
being long acquainted with the course and
rapidity, of the stream ran about five rods
below the place, and exerting all his strength,
by repeated hard blows, broke the ice, then r
pulhing away the broken pieces, laid down
upon the ice, his face touching the water,
and eagerly looking for the lad s coming
down. He had hot been many seconds in
situation, when he saw him coming
towards him, his head about a foot below the
ice. He plunged in his arm, and seizing
the lad drew liim out, motionljis, and to ap
pearance dead. But by the application of
warming things, he was providentially res
tored to his usual health, in two or three
hours. He had been under the ice fix or-
DAVID M'CLURE.
eight minutes.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 26.
Yesterday about n o'clock, the President
accompanied by the Governor, the Secretary
of State, the Secretary of War, and a num
ber of rcfpedlable citizens, went down the
river in one of the New Castle Packets, to
view Fort Mifflin and other places on the
banks of the Delaware.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 25.
BY the FANNY OF GREENOCIC.
Yesterday arrived here from Greenock;
the ship Fanny, Captain Braine, after
a passage of 35 days. By this arrival
we have received London papers as
late as the ift, and Glasgow papers
to the 7th March—The papers do not
contain any thing very important—they
are mostly filled with Parliamentary
(ketches—of which we shall continue
to puhlifh ex.tratts. The following,
however, appearing the mod important,
claim our earliest attention.
BRUSSELS, Feb. 20.
The head quarters of the Auftrians
will be this evening at Valenciennes.—
Mj deClairfayt will command 20,000 men
at Toornay: The Prince de Cobourg
40,000 at Solefmes, between Cateay and
Oambray; and the Prince of Hohenlohe
20,000 on the banks of the Sambre.
There will be also 9000 men between
Beaumons, Maubeuge,'and Philippeville;
19,000 Dutch troops, and 12,000 Auf
trians, will protest Namur; and M. de
Beaulieu will have 9000 at Arion. Such
are our dispositions. The 15,000 Auf
trians that are at Treves will be charged to
cover the Electorate. The English, Hes
sians, and Hanoverians alone, arc charged
with the defence of Weft-Flanders from
Menin to the sea.
LONDON, February 14.
M. Perigord, B;ftiop of Antun, is going
to Philadelphia with Madame de flannalt,
-whose h. I (band was guillotined at St. Omers.
They will be accompanied by Beaumets, an
Ex-conflituent, and the Ex-minister Nar
"bonne.—-The Ex-constituents d'Andre, La
meth, d'Aiguillon, and Luagnan, will fooo
follow them to America.
"February, Is.
It is generally undei flood that our govern
ment will Hop all American lh.ps now in the
river, bound to France, 'i he urgency of af
fairs requires every vigilance on our part to
prevent any supplies being lent to that coun
try, which is so very hard prefied at this
moment for articles of the firft nece.Tity for
carrying on the war.
Great quantities of pot-ash have been late
ly exported from this kingdom to France in
neutral (hips j the French having, it is said,
discovered a method of using this fait instead
of falt-petre, in the composition of gunpow
der.
When Meflrs. Muir, Palmer, Skirving,
and Margarot, were conduced on board the
hulks at Woolwich, their baggage was not
received, and they th'emfelves were obliged
to put on the common convi<fls jacket, and
submit to have their heads (haved.
February 18.
Yesterday accounts were received from
America, brought to this country by two
ships frorri New-York, with letters as late as
the 14th of January. By these we learn,
that Congress had received intelligence of the
proclamation of our Privy Council of the
6th of November last, for seizing American
(hips under certain circumstances ; as well
as of the capture of several American (hips
in the Weft-Indies. Congress however, had
wifely determined on preserving a ftrifl neu
trality with all nations. American stocks
have risen in consequence.
February 20.
A gentleman who came passenger in the
schooner Success, Captain Leech, from
Norfolk to Liverpool, informs, that two
days previous to his departure from thence,
a letter was received from Mr. Parker, a
Member of Congress, from Virginia,
which dated, that the United States were
on the eve of a war—that Cougrefs had
pafled a resolution to fortify all the towns
on the sea coast—that upwards of 50 pie
ces of cannon were to be mounted tor the
defence of Charleston, and that orders
had been ilTued for buying up, on account
of the American Government, all the
arms and ammunition which could be pro
cured.
The Duke of York, in the ensuing
campaign, is to ast under the direflion of
Col. Maek, and the combined armies are
not to waste their time by flopping on the
way to attack or besiege any of the strong
ly fortified towns on the frontiers, but to
proceed in a mass to Paris.—Star.
Government yesterday received advice
from Portsmouth, that the cutter which
was dispatched from thence on Thursday
evening to look into the ports of " France,
from whence the expected invasion was said
to be projected, is returned, after running
so close ort Ihore as narrowly to have es
caped a red-hot ball from a battery ; and
reports that there>are no troops embarked,
nor shipping so numerous, or preparations
in any state of forwardnefs l'uch as had
been conjectured.
The French, having made great additions
to their strength, along all the frontiers
from Lisle to Dunkirk, threaten another
inroad upon Weft Flanders, and already
some severe fkirmilhes have taken place, at
the allied out posts. Gun-boats are said to
have failed from Dunkirk, for the purpose
of attacking Oftend by sea, to which place
theit troops, in great numbers, are endea
vouring to press forward by land. In the
mtan time, it is fatisfadlory to know, that
Oftend has been, for some time, in a condi
tion to make a vigorous defence.
The Juno Frigate, Captain Hood, com
ing from Gibraltar, entered the road of
Tqulon, not knowing of the recapture of
that place, anchored off the Caserns; —
when a boat with a French officer came
to announce to the Captain, that he was
prisoner of war. Capt. Hood requested
the Frenchman to take some refreshment
in his cabin, and profited by this interval
to cut his cables, and then bore away un
der a briflc gale. The French batteries
feeing the' Juno (heerjoff, direded a vio
lent discharge upon her, two of which
went completely through her without kil
ling a man.
Febuuory 21.
Official news has been'received by one
of the Foreign Ministers from his court
of Perpignan having surrendered to the
Spaniards. The particulars are not Hated.
February 22.
Our letters from Bruflels, dated the
18th inlt. state, tjiat the movement of
the French, which we had notice of in
our last letters, was not a falfe atarm.
The French had a&Oally began their ope
rations, and that in a mod formidable way.
They advanced on the fide ps Maubeuge,
and on the 1 jth a violent cannonade com
menced on the Austrian out-pofts. AH
the Englith troops have moved from their
cantonment, and the Auftrians have ad
vanced from Mons to the frontiers
The Prince of Cobourg had been for
two days at Bavar, and it was thought
that he would remove his head-quarters to
Valenciennes ; as for the present at least
they nmft continue on the defenfive ; —
70,000 French are already aflfembled be
fore that place, but it appears that Pich
egru yet waits the arrival of the cavalry.
Ten fail of French Ealt-India men
have reached Port l'Orient, an event
which has caused much joy among the uri
der-writers: at Lloyd's Coffee-honfe, where
some of them were deeply insured. This
arrival is to be the more regretted by this
country, as the French have thereby re
ceived a large fupplyof falt-petre, an arti
cle of which they were very much in want.
The brig Union, of Boston, Captain
Snow, lately put into Galway in distress,
bound from Virginia to Dublin, laden
with tobacco, was wrecked on the coast
of Wales, on her pafiage frpm Galway,
and two of her crew unfortunately perish
ed. The George,Simms,(an American)
from Maryland to Bremen, is taken and
carried into Moirlaix, & ordered to Brest.
The great number of French collected
about Longwi and Thionville, seem to
threaten the Provinc.e of Luxembourg
with an invasion. The Ailfttian generals
have put that fortrefs, which, after Gi
braltar, is the ftrongeff in Europe, in a
most refpedlable state of defence.
On the iotliand iithinft. feveralbloo
dy fkirtnifhes were fought about Orchies,
in which the Austrian hulfars took a great
number of prisoners.
Letters from Leghorn, dated January
31, state the fafe arrival of the Juno fri
gate, Capt. Alexander Hood, in that port.
He brought with him the Republican of
ficer and 10 seamen whom he had made
prisoners at Toulon.
March I.
Last night Mr. Sparrow, the meflenger,
arrived at the Secretary of State's office,with
dispatches from our army in Flanders. A
general movement has taken , lace, and the
British forces had all drawn towards the
neighbourhood of Courtray expecting an at
jack. Their Head quarters are now at Haer
libeke.
As the armies are now in general motion,
the campaign may be expected immediately
to commence. The prince of Cobourg ar
rived at Valenciennes on the 19th, where he
has taken up his head-quarters. He was re
ceived with the most lively demonstrations
of joy, and the city was illuminated on the
occalion.
Yesterday accounts were received in town
by the Minerva from Bengal, for Oltend.;
that the r rincefs Royal, East Indiaman out
ward bound, on the 27th of September last,
near the Sunda Ifiands, fell in with three
French frigates, and engaged them for up
wards of one hour, when (he was obliged to
strike to their superior force. The carpenter
was killed ; the sixth mate, and two seamen
wounded.
The dreadful fire which broke out at
Gottenbourgh, on the 4th mflant, began
juftoppofite the town-house, which had a
narrow escape ; the flames and heat reach
ed it from the other fide of the canal, and
nothing but the most strenuous exertions
could have saved it. It is computed that
from 100 to 120 houses have been con
sumed, and upwards of 2000 people loft
their all in the space of ten hours; fortu
nately none of the British have fuffered.
Friday died his Grace the Duke of
New-ca£Lle-
NEW-YORK.
We rejoice to find accounts from various
Islands of the rtleafe of American flapping.
It looks like a return of friendly intercourse
with the islands in due time ; but when the
best face is put upon the whole business, eve
ry man must pronounce it a molt infamous
series of abusive treatment.
The (hip Holland, Capt. Franklin arrived
at the Texel 2 2d, January last, after having
been taken and carried into Cowes by the
Englilh Cutter Swan ; who after examining
the papers released him immediately.
The Holland was laden with sugar and
coffee, the produce of the French Wek-India
islands. 1
ExtraS of a letter from a merchant in
London, dated February 10, 1794, to his
Correspondent in New-Tork.
"I hjve effected Insurance on the freight
of your strip at fix guineas per lent. When
is is considered that for some time past French
cruisers have flopped almost every American
veflel they have met with, and sent them to
France, of the fate of whose cargoes and al
so of their freights, we are ignorant, I am
led to hope the owners of the ship will think
she was done on very moderate terms. A
monglt those vessels supposed to be in France,
is thf Mary, Capt, Haley ; as since her ar-'
rival off Falmouth the 4th,ult, there has
be?n no account of her.
THE French paper from which
we copied the paragraph of Mceftricht
and Breda having been taken by the
French, as mentioned in vefterdrry's Gaz
ette, jvas handed us amongst late papers;
but on examination, find it to be an old
paper of Feb. 1793.
Extract-os a letter from London, dated
February loth, 1794.
" It is with pleasure I mention, that
appearances are very flattering of that
good understanding which exists between
this country and yours, not being at pre
sent interrupted—the American commit
tee, whereof I a member, a few days a
go presented a memorial to the Admiral
ty, requesting a convoy to fail from Fal
mouth or Plymouth early next month, to'
take under their prote&ion veflels bound
to the United States, which thay hare
promised to grant." -
■arrived.
Ship Elfice, Harvey, London
Fanny, Braine, Greenock
Mary, Puller, Gibraltar
. Sfventy-five paiTengers came in the Fanny,
from Grtriock, mat|y of whom were cabbin
paiTengers.
The ship James, Howard, arrived at Do
ver, 15th February.
The ship Atlas, Bunker, arrived at Lon
donderry, after a short paflage.
The ship Providence, Martin, from this
port, is arrived at I.eith.
CONGRESS;
House of Reprefentat 'ivN April 2s:
On motion by Mr. Smith 6f South-Ca
rolina, amended by Mr. Parker,
Resolved uhanimoujly, That the letter
of the Committee of Public Safety of the
French Republic, addrelfed to Congress,
be transmitted to the President of the U-<
nited States, and that he be requested to
cause the fame to be anfwercd, oii behalf
of this House, in terms exprefiive of their
fenfibilityj for the friendly and affection
ate manner in which they have addrefled
the Congress of the United States, with
an unequivocal afiurance that the Repre
sentatives of the People of the United
States, have much interest in the happi
ness and prosperity of the French Repub
lic.
Orc'ered, That Mr. William Smith and
Mr. Parker, be a committee to wait on
the President with the foregoing resolution.
*** The St. Domingo fufferers will re
ceive a further jtffiftance from the fund ad
vanced by Congress, by applying at the cor
ner of Water and Walnut-Street, on Mon
day, from 9t012A. M. and to SP. M.
A small sum is reserved to aflVft tliofe in
distress, who have an opportunity of quitting
the United States.
The Printers are requested to insert the
above. April 26th, 1794.
NEW TH
THfS EVENING,
April 26.
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, called
The Rivals.
To which will be added,
A New serious Pantomime, never perform
ed here, called
La Foret Noire,
OR. TPE
NATURAL SON.
With New Music by Mr. Reinagle, and
New Scenery by Mr. Milburn.
The Pantomime.under the direction of Mr.
Francis.
Geronte, father of Lucille Mr. Greeif
Lanzedan, Lucille's lover Mr. Moreton
Adolphe, the natural son, Master T.Warrelt
Pince, a finical Abbe, Mr. Francis
Lubin, apeafant, Mr. Warrell
Fronte & Pafquin, ferva*ts to Geronte,Mef
frs. Warrell & Darlcy jun.
Lucille,(Daughter to Geronte) Madame
Gardie, from the Theatre a- Paris
being her firit appearance on this
flage.
Marton,Lucille's maid, Miss Rowfon
BANDITTI.
Le Terreuir, captain of the banditti, Mr.
Marfnatl
Sans Quartier, the lieutenant Mr. Cleveland
Robbers, Messrs. BlilTet, De Mou
lin, Lee, Bason, &c.
Books, descriptive of the Pantomime, to
be had at the Theatre.
Places in the Soxes to be taken at the Box-
Office of the Theatre,at any hour from nine,
in the morning till three o'clock in the after
noon, cn the day of performance. Tickets
to be had at the office near the Theatre, -at
the corner of Sixth-ftreet,and at Carr & Go's
MuficalUepofitory, No. ij z, Market-flreet
fa, Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarter*
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.JUST PUBLISHED,
H y DiSi'tß nf Ptnrtfylvania, to wit :
THOMAS DOBSON, |$ e remembered that
doofylLr, at tbeSt'.->H«uj r ,>! Scce:;JJ?r*:t, ,| ie l(V , fth ,j t> . April'i.i the eighteenth
t'biladclpbia, car : |g independence of tlie United Stales
iOI-iUM-E -X.l OF o j' lienjaniin-Davies of the said ciil-
T ( ' VT f V /"* I *ria liiith depofit'ed in this office she title ofa
1 JL-.LJii Xj mil>) the right whereof he claims as propri
or A ctoi, in the words following, to wit;
Dictionary of Arts, ScicHca, aud Miful- " A Ground Plan of tfte City a»d Sub.
r - ; u u; bs oi i'luiadclphin, taken irom jctuai
' anrouJ n survey; containing an exact defcriptiot
f
4
&& a piu «nti .ejy 4^'
fcr& %,&4*.l&t»
tf**** a%*
imdifc ""jf?*
•feH'V' mttoilmvi, -. twiatWpfe*. nwtl»od^
A 4«, coboerpl*"*-
' < (£J* The tablet of tagJri«W»*( &c. ■Wet'
««r» <l ftcvcat in ilwuiirt rolqiae. are fi»b
t'ltfjill IT" J**"
WET««I theXJlrh is feftpfc
price
TfcN <JoTtar».or
*!"?*• Tb«lW»
"*W» wmk »*i t
Htc £rA of Juljrßi^t+i'
• xdrowwe# Ti£Nljillf f o"~ «
w.y <*fcictiinaY be
•■ 1 '"• J - T ! "'" 1■ ' ""
',' Ajypa . -vr W «to fafefcrfbtrrteva irifcrt
•iily »' the/ are
„ c»rnedly t«>taka up iui fltyfiv Ud
remaining as it bceam»&4«ficuit ti
$ompl«t« *jpi d*» no
Itold himteif bWoi to ih»Mebp'*iiy fctli tffte
. Itie ftrft 4»y ofJuly«e*fc
Just Publiflied,
AND TO EE HOLD ?Y
THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone house, Nu. 4 1 * South becond
Street,
Historical Colje&ions :
CONSISTING OF
STATE PAPER S,
And other authentic Documents, intended as
materials for an History of she United States
of Ame- ica.
EY EBfcNEZER HAZARD, A. M.
% In two large quarto volumes, price ten dol
lars in boards.
Subscribers will be furniflicd with the 2d.
volume on paying three dollars and a quarter
—having paid five dollars and a quarter on
icceivtng the fir ft.
This fecund volume, comprehends, among
other interesting \ fculars, a complete co
py of the Records of the United Colonies ot
N. England, in which the conduct of the com
iniflioners relpefoing the general concerns of
the colonies*—the neighbouring Indians—and
the. Dutch ,at Manhattan* (now New Yolk) is
particularly detailed.
%* Materials are collected fufficient to
form a THIRD VOLUME, The time of
publHhing will depsnd on the encouragement
to be derived from fubferiptions which will be
received by Thomas Dobfon, Philadelphia;
Jere. Libbey, Portsmouth, New Hampfhirr;
Thomas & Andrews, $c Dav. Weft,Boiton; ll
aia Thomas, Worceiter ; Isaac Beers, New-
Haven; Timothy. Gteen, New London ; Jacob
Richaidfon, Newport; J,ohn Carter, Provi
dence ; Hugh Gaine, Thomas Allen, and
Samu&l Campbell, New York ; Frederick
Craig, Wilmington, Delaware; James Rice,
Baltimore; Mr. Liudfey, Norfolk ; David
Henderfon* Fredericksburg; John Grammar
Peter (burg ; Augustine Davis, Richmond ; F
JC. Martin, Newbem, N. C. John Bradley,
Wilmin&ipfl; and William Price Young, Char
left on.
Aon) 4
v r, rt 1 iojmvi£NT.
SALES at NEVy'-TORK, by A. L.
BLEECKER fc? SOA'3,
On Thursday the 15 th May next at Twelve
o'clock at the Tontine Coffee House,
The following
< Trass of Land\
In Watkins and Flint's purfhafe, in the coun
ty of Tioga, state of New York.
The containing acres
Southwell quar. of Townlhip No. 2, 9,424
Northwest do. do. 4, 5,647
Northeast do. do. 6, 10,525
Sonthweft do. do. 7, 9000
Southwest do do.' 8, 3,950
No thwefl: do. do. 8, 6,^50
Southeast do. do. 9, 6,250
Southeast do. do. IP, 9,000
Northwest dcv do. 10, 10,475
70)521
Thefelands are rapidlyencreafingin value,
large settlements are already made in ieveral
of the townfliips; the goqdnefs of foil, and
the advantages in point of situation being so
well known, render any further description
unneceflary. 'A mip of the trails and condi
tions of sale nray be seen at No. ia, Queen
street, New-York.
April iQ. tuthfes tX4M
Pennsylvania Hospital,
. 4th Month, sth 1794.
The Contributors are desired
to attend the Ejection, to be held at the
Hospital on the jth day of the gth Month
next, at 3 o'clock in the afternoon ;to choose
twolve Managers and a Treasure*, for
the ensuing year:
By order of a board of Managers.
Samuel Coates, clerk.
y ; v. B _..
ot all the iquares, {treets and alleys in
u the City and Liberties ; of the fitu-tion
** of all the principal public buhidings ; of
" the rivulets, and as much ot the Canal
u asJies within the compass oi the draft,
4t by H. P. Foiie : ptibliftieij by the Propri
** eror, Benjamin Davies."
In conformity to the a<st of the Congress of
the United States, entitled an adt for the en
couragement of learmug, by feeuring the co
pies of i]iaps > charts and books to the authors
aid proprietors of such copies, during the
times therein mentioned.
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
CL'i kof the Diftri&of Pennsylvania.
Aprii 9. ,w&S2*r
Treasury Department,
Revenue Office, i/lptil 19, 1794*
NOTICE is nereby given, that proposals
will be received at the office ol the Comiiuf
fioner of the Revenue i|»itil the sixth of May
next inclulively, for the supply of all Ra
tions, which may be required during the cur
rent year, at the city of Philadelphia, for
the reormting service.
The ratiqns to be furnifiied are to consist
of the following articles, vi?.
One pound of bi ead or flour,
One pound of beef, or 3 4 of a pound pork
Half a gill of rum, brandy or wliifky
One quart of fait, ,
Two quart, vinegar / pef IOQ rations
1 wo pounds soap (
One pound candles J
Apri. 2a.
rli&ttt6w
The annual ele£ti
Directors and a Treasurer
OF THE
Library Company of Philadelphia,
WILL be held at the Library, in Fif
street, on Monday the fifth of May next, at
three o clock in the afternoon, when the trea
surer will attend to receive the annual pay
ments.
As there are several {hares on which fines
are due, the owners of them, or tUeir rep e
(entatives, are hereby notified, will
be forfeited, agreeably to the laws of the
Company, unless the laid arrears are paid off
on the fife4iday of May, or within ten days
after.
By Order of the Directors.
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN,
Secretary
m&w tsth May.
Scary Rape State of Maryland.
v. Court of Chancei y,
Benjamin Gaither > March sth. 1794-
and n
Basil C.aither
The Complainant states
in his bill that the defendants Benjamin Gai
ther and Basil Gaither were seized in fee as
tenants in common of a tradt ot land in Fre
derick County, called Hammond's Strife ; —
that being so seised, Basil executed a power
of attorney to Benjamin authorizisg him to
fe-ll his, the said Balii's intereil in the fa cl
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin fold:
the said land to a certain William Gaither tor
the consideration of fix hundred pounds which;
hath been fmce paid, that the said William
hath afllgned to the Complainant Henry Raj>e
the bond executed by the said Benjamin fort
the conveyabce of tae said land : The Com
pl. inant now further states (and so appears
to the Chancellor) that the defendants are
non-residents of the itate of Marylaud, and
herefore out of the reach of the process of
this court.
It is therefore adjudged hnd ordered, that
the Complainant procure a copy of this or
der to be inserted in the newspaper of Angeli
and Sul ivan, and in the United States Gazette
at least three weeks fucceflively, before the
twentieth day of May next ; to the intenl
that the Defendants and all others, who maj
conceive themselves interested in the premil
es, may have notice to appear in this court,
on or before the third Tupfday in Septembei
next, to ftiew caul'e wherefore a decree ftiouh
not pass for vetting in the Complainant a com
plete legal title to the land aforefaid.
Test, .
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD
Keg. Cur. Con
April 7.
jmwS.'fgwr
March »8
Concluding Sales.
THE Subscriber having entertd into Co
partnerihip with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the bufni'fj of Sugar Refining, will dispose
of (he
Remaining Stock on hand
CONSISTING OF
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By Wuolefale at Prime CoJI for Cq/h.
John Dorfey,
No. aa, North 3d ltreet.
tath&s6w
Apiil ia.
mv
for
tulh&sjw
Just Imported,
In theJh:p Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peti-rjburgh in Russia, and now landing at
•JLuffdF s wharf,
hemp,
i.Ak IRON,
RI SSI A SHEETINGS,
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And for fule at the (lores of the fubfciibef ii
Walnut flreet, Ni>. 22.
'John Donnaldfon.
diw W&>tf
April 4.
Philad. April 21, 1794-
*J* Notice, agreeably to charter, is here
y given to the members of the Corporation
for the Relief of Poor and DiJlreJJed Presby
terian Minijlers, and of the Poor and Dis
tressed Widows and children of Presbyterian
Miniflerst that a meeting of said corporation
is to take place, on the 22d day of May next,
in the second Presbyterian church in the city
of Philadelphia, at 4 o'clock P. M. for the
dispatch of all such bulinefs as may then be
brought before the board.
ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
tuth&s6t
Treasury Department,
Re-venue Office, April 16th, 1794.
Communications by post or
otherwise. will b<* received by way of infor
mation at the Office of the Commi/lioner of
the Revenue fro«i persons willing to supply iron
Caiiuon, Cannon Bali, and Shells, for the for
tifications and Ships of War. The fitnefs of
the/netal for cannon, and the capacity of the
founders-,n framing, in preparing and mix
ing the metal, and in casting aud boring the
cannon (which are to be cast solidly) will re
quire to be particularly dated. %
Similar communications will also be receiv
ed from any persons willing to supply live
oak /md red cedar timber for the conftru&ion
of thefhips of war. Different plans of pro
curing and fupplyiog *he fame may be propos
ed. The convenience of the fiiuation in re
gard to navigation, nnd the state of the timber
whether already fallen or hereafter to be cut,
will require to be no.iced.
All the neceflary particulars in regard to
the|feve r al afiicles which are wanted, will be
fpecified ir. contra&s intended.to be grounded
in part on the information, which is hereby
fought.
April 17.
T'he Ground Plan
OF THE
City and Suburbs
OF
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM ACTUAL SVRyST.
IT is with pleasure that the puplilher has to
inform htsfubferibersand the public in gene
ral, that the plate is now under the hands of
the engraver, and in g.cater forwardnefs than
was at fit ft contemplated. At the fame time
he begs leave to remind them, that fublcrip
tjon papers are still open at molt of the noted
book-stores in the city ■ and that he hopes
from the whole of them to be enabled to foim
such a relpeftable catatogue of names, as will
do a credit to the work, as well as afford a
real'onable encouragement to the undertake-r
ThoJe who are delirous of further informa.
tion are requested to call on
Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, Market ilreet.
.April 14.
Just Publiflied,
In one handsome volume, umo. Price 5s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN OR M ROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Second
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that refuli fronj it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by<the-
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
CorreSed and Enlarged-
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
£>. D.
ProfefTor of Moral Philol'ophy, and the Law
ot Nature, and of Ecclesiastical History ;
and Minister of the Engliih Chuicli at ul
trecht.
Aliquid temper ad communem utilitatem af
ferendum. Cicero.
The Firjl American Edition.
grand principle of Equality, if right
urtderftood, is the only balls on which
univerfai justice, faced order, and perfect
reedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The viewiof it exhibited in this
e«ay, at the fame time that it reprefles the
uilolence of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages of oppression ; confirms, in the
most forcible manner, the neceflity of subor
dination, and the just demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate
every natural and every civil dlftindtion!
draws more closely every fecial tie, unites in
one harmonious and ju/lly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together oil the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, oi reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18.
The Public are cautioned
beware of counterfeited Fine Dollui
the Bank of the United Suitts, and \
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North *4mi
federal of which heme appearedin circuUi.
ivithin a f'w days pajl ; they tire a gooi > _ Ji
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but Muj
be dijlingui/hed by the following
marks.
Five Dollar Bills of the BanJt of the
United States.
ALL thai have appeared have the letter v
lor their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker ami
whiter and it takes the ink more freely thaa
the genuine paper. y "
The O. in the word Company is fmilW
thanitheM. and oth e r letters of that w®«L
so that a line extended from the top of th. O
r^ tO M 'if top U,the M would rxtf-ndcot,!
fiderably above the rartge of ,1* whole ~o j. .s i _
erfnrt Mnr the ,ette " *'e narrow.
The C, : fe ; *°. fiether tl,an thc ""ft of the bii!
th//" T | 6 - WOrd pr ° mife arc uat
thanthe', /,n £n,Bth " ,ore
" ba n y extcule< '>lhe stroke,
in thl t L f Hers are stronger ">d the devke
in the margin particularly i s much coarferand
appears darker than in the true bZ
al **= counterfeits bear date in .- QI _ W W
«t e Bank yras not in operation' till Decent"
Twenty Dollar Bills # tif
slmerica.
ALL. that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
to JhLV 71 Pr " I,ed a > na P er "early si m ila r
tothat °t the couuterfeit Five Dollar Note;
above defenbed; the engraving is bete, exe
u e ' and they approach nearer to tl, e an
pearance of the genuine bills. P '
The fine ruled lines through the wotd Ttutm
ty, in the body o< the bill, are in mumbei thir
teen in the genuine b ib, and but twelve i„
the counterieits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar B lis *s defer ibed a.
bove, the a being left than the®, a „d others
following.
There is no ftrofce lo the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down tu
the line, hut are sb cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the 7a, and thei go
ing below them. a
tuth&szw.
The signature J. Nixon, has the "appear
ance of being written with lamb-black aud
oil, and differs from other inks used in
printing the bills and th« carter's fignatme.
It is supposed thefc forgeries were committed
in (ome of the Southern States, as alt the coun
terfeits that have appeared, have come from
thence, and two per tons have been apprehend
ed in Virginia,on fufptcion of beiug the author
of ttiem.
The reward of CNE TUOUiAK'D DOLLARS
will.be paid toany Pe.fon or Persons whoflull
difcovcr and pfofecute to conviction tlie
offenders >of ihe following delciiptioos or any
of them, viz.
The ptrfao «* pcrftn!, who nnnuf»9urcd
'the paper on which t Heft, Il s are prfoted.
Tlw pwfon or-, pcrfanfj who tagnved che
plat«.
The primer or primers, «f ,hc billi.
Every person who has aHed as a principal i.
any other way, in the counterfeiting and otter,
ing the Caid bills.
Philadelphia, Match 28, ty
April 22, 1794 ,
Other counterfeit bills
in circuM o °n. th£ ° ni ' edStates "reappeared
1 denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the jet
ter rs. »
m&thtf
from the
ine by the following MARKS :
The paper of (he counterfeit? is of a more
tender texture and gloffey lurface than tbe
genuine, and there is no water mark in them.
The letter C. in the word Caihier, in ,he
true bills tsflrong'y marked, whereas in the
unterfens, the whole letter is a fine hair
irofce, evidently i„ a „ unfinilhed ttate. The
Lrdrlt" 1 , Wd,dde 'nand, is badlv formed
and the whole word ill done, and there « .10
comma at the end nf «.i_ • • i
genuine Wills. '35 the '' C " the
.l. i- if "'"B'npl device, is much daiker in
n j' . a " ln 'he genuine bills owing,to
t-naei-h 6 be ' n g coarler, much nearer
H C^ &<iUeUt,y m,,ch '"°' e nu "
merous. This difference ft, ikes .he eye at frrft
view.
DOLLARS nT ° f ° NE THOUSAND
W paid ,or apprehending, &
®Pnvidion tl.e f ?V eial abo»e
til derS in ,el "l ieft this, a S t„
the Jaftdefcribed bills.
THOMAS WILLING, President
of the Rank Umtrd Stares.
NIXON, Pnfidcnt of the
Bank ot North America.
By order ot the Committees of the Ref
pe&ive Boards.
This Gazette J] jail be as it
receives encouragement—The Sulfcription
encreafes daily—Advert ifing Favors are
foliated—The£e cwijlitute an ejentlal Item
tn diminjjhing the Debit fide of the Account.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 3
tu&ftf
South Fourth-Street
—J