fe VEN IN G A N D VERTI SE R.
' ' " ' ' »' VrSiwl • liiir-i *1 r mr jjpy* yj - ■ -|i", lii» *|» ■tf'ir *" "jlaT*"'
[No. 95 of Vol. V.] Wednesday, April 2, 1794. [Whole No. 554.]
vru-E GAZETTE of THE IGNITED STATED.
.S , .
TQ JESTRINJ.
TO Ace Iftrina, empress of my "heart
Ere far fromJience my wandering footfteps part ;
Uepreft by fortune, ttnt with bitttntft woe,
v The (ast, said, accents of my fqrrow flow.
Tho' now, nor life, tranquility or joy,
. My words can ask for, or my lines destroy; .
Yet, as to the*, thalrall oh earth more dejr, i
They befr the farewell of a heart fmcere,
Not with a Jiceift vihare ne«diftra<slion strays
My fpirittlMltttei or nly hand obeys.
Tor all the warm affefftions of my -heart,
Witfc--yau .appear, -and «s you go depart j
tends ae ch fenfacion of my foul,
Trut.asthe needle trembles tothe.poie.
Ttn'tiifaes an hour my thoughts review die dafa
'Which gave your beauties to ray eajrer.gaze:
A* oft the impre(Tion<t- which delighted .fame
Mtute on myheart, nnited «witfc your -name,
Ere firft, reveal'd, youbleft my-Favtth'd eyes,
feloitie to-Hiy-foat, -zfidtn my ment«>yj»ife.
I call tQ mind what ilwect fen&tions .thrill'd
Thro'all my frame, what joy my bpfom fiil'd.
Mid fire drrii room, where hufh'd each whifperirtglWrfe
3 d th)q Toft, Tweet, accents of your voice.
■Oft J review-.the lacwrs, in thought beguiled
With you employ'd when all creation smiled;
The social evenings whose too fwift career
Cenverie andJionks comhin'd to render dear,
The pltal'ant walks, '-. hen fpringawoke-the day,
When beanty'triumph'd, and the world was gay.
O then, array*d'iii heavenly beauty bright,
1 Y«u toak'd sdl lovely totny raptured fight,
Viftons of night, and images of day,
Bide o'er my foul yonr loved idea stray,
Ami ev#ry iiour that fancy rcrade you mine
Was taught with some resplendent bliis to.fliine.
Deceitful views ! that still Awake the sigh
twnun Wirti tears she melancholy tye.
With pale and livid aguesjhake my frame
And fiteTny-bcflbm with the "fevers flame. 1
WiHhould have lived she happiest pair on earth,
for eaoh iwlier nature gave us birth;
■And-mimis, and •manners, taste, and fortune drove,
* AlUce in daah, ,to Varm wall -mutual love.
What joys, wtat rapLUiCo, what trsuriporting hours, ~9
Bkft in our kxvfs, Eftrina»had "been ours !
T-i* rolling fun had run his annual court,
And fen, return'd their undkrtiniQi'd force j
MoWth after month had lightly ,past away,
Not known one instant unrejoicing.'ftray.;
tes inlucceflicn -hud -delighted vreW'd,
With love unceasing, all our joys renew'd?
And every hotfrwith feathery foot that hies,
And winged moment that so fwiftly flies,
I-adcn wifhblifs and extacy IracT moved,
And to the admiring -world our wond'xous pafiien proved.
But nowtfark ctouds these profpe&s ovcrcaft,
Their beauties (hrink from sorrows blighting blast,
With lion rage deftrtnftion treads the grpelj,
And -defoUtion.hovers o'tr the fesne.
That bright succession of supernal joys,
One dire mi-fortune,inftaatly destroys,
And, fco«n the heighth of beatific%lifs,
Hnfls me;to Sorrow's terrible abyfc.
_ I fondly thought domestic joys-to prove,
'I he fleets of filial, and connubial love.;
Andfohcy oprrn'd on "my raviih'd view
Atfairy land of pleafnres -ever new.
But with -torn .eye, artti tteftHating hantl,
Fell difappoi«t»ient*»wisiier frigidtwrtd,
Before its pewer.Hiy;promis:d joys decay, 1
And expe&ation s transports flit away ; i
I fee thee coldly unrelenting led,
Drawn.like a vittim, to the maraiage bed
to trtjmnftiir nature ne'er Hefigri'd, \
Or-genaroos passion, thou flrouidft e'er be joiri'd, :
To.tbee nnlSie, who-'fetls ttogehralheat
Djlateihk haart-alidiin Jiis pulses :b*at;
hose foul alike unmov'd by joys or woe«, J
unvarying tsmper, only knoU«s,;
Ana whom, nortafte, .norgenius, jave in tbefs, !
And in mechanic arts have delign'd to hiefs;
ColHly'he tskes thft tt) his lanquid arms j
With face phlegmatic gazes on thy chartns ;
Who all im-foul with 'frantic paflion fill ;
Whose charms my broail *rith joy tumultuous thrill.; . i
Whose save to haaven might.teach my hopes to afph-e, I
Warm d with the influence of seraphic fire. > j
O call, to ntind thole energies of ipeeeh ' j
Which4iv«ly_paflion tought my voice to reach ;
The fchange of feature, gesture, and of air,
By hope supported, or depreft by care ; t
And call-to mind, that dire, that fatal day : f
X\ hidi rent my hopes of liappinefs away,
« lien your, cob! manner, and your face sedate T
, o fearching eyes-proclaim'd my fate, r,
Andfora time, (-both Ipeech and motion fled)
J,t£ " image of the dead ; f
all then to mind —and let your memory trace, V
With care minute, the history of his face, v
His words, and actions, whose more happy lot (
G.ve S h.m your love mypaffon, trutfc forgot,— A
And own, nsdbong emotion hare yoru feeh, r
No ua»fitnt : glow-of passion intervene,
Inuant of joy, or -molneatajy grief,
To.give the'rtemal'fanrenefs fome-rdrrf ;
But in Aeir place, one •frxM, unchanging 'look,
lias from the firfthis features .ne'er fbrfcok,
Sa*e far some tend unrnraning burst of (ninth,
Shertas the trifling e<mfe which .gave it .birth.
flis are the .honours of a name
Which chance, not njerit, has wak'.d to-f«iie j
A taller person, a mare .perfect ;
"Productive bufmefs, and profuler wealth.
Are these. O woman ! these (he glorious fires,
' And these tke altars, where <at -once .expires
Each/great emotion, ejtery thought refined
The.giow of femm, energy of juind,
And wond'rous.powers, which wing'd thy feul to rife
And mix, in kindred fervor, with the Ikies ?
! Miift.every nobler passion of the heart
Perish, uprooted by degenerate art ?
And lone, the hta.ven-born fire,
At Mammon's JhriiKa.fac.-ifice expiiie'?
Go - - - - in the dull, and tasteless, round of life,
You'll lead with him who soon flrall call you wife,
In empty Ihow, a folaqe seek to -prove,
Far the loft raptures of a genuine lbve.
-When oe>ra« flie -day, as sure thfc daiymuft come, '
For life, that-takes you fiaom your prtfent home ;
When, to aiu>(band j; -uaraliftedciaim,
You yield .the honours of -your viijgin name
You lhall.be .led, .with an autrembling hand,
TO where yourfriends, and jjrielt-uniting, itand ;
From lips which *iever,gtow'd, a cold, feint, kiss,
Shall .be your welcome .to cqnaubial bliss ;
The.pomp.of servants, carriages, arid show,
The charms, and fcjjperies-that from felhion 'flow
Thqfe fliallhe your';,, and *11 the blifis.thttlies
In place,, in riches, or from stank can rife.
But fey, Eftrina, .lovely.woman fay,
Where do the hours of fond endearment Jtray ?
Where are .the .days de-«oted to your .will ?
The timesfliour convede, youths alone, can fill ?
I Seasons, with you, employed so search the lore
Of ancient sages, and the timaj of yree ?
Seasons with you -diredled to the cafe
A smiling offspring happily to rear,
To form their.manners, and their minds improve
In all the modes of science, and of love;
You know them-not-:—-arftaidjpun&iliolis form
A itridl attention, ne'.er with feeling warm,
Solicitude, which, temdernefs forgot,
In deeds appears, not occupies the.thought ;
Aad low fubmiiTiua, where noneafe, itor gracr,
Nor manly dignity, retains place ;
An empty cqnverft, -where -nafcicqce fliines,
No wit enchants, or elegance refines;
These are the precious substitutes you gain
; For faith.fincer-e and love's delightsome reign.
, Nor look for confidence—-that heart, so coM,
Afecrst never to another itold;
Of frieiidlhip-iie'er conceived, fsrfelf itfcols,
And to itfelf, alone, its-thoughts reveals.
3 had.raceivirtl you wi¥h tsranfporting joy,
Ot g»i«f our days had witnefs'd no alloy.;
Onecourfe alone had seen the miputes -move
Of fond ondearment, confidence and love.
Where do I run ? ah ! whither am I borne ?
That love you own not, nay, yqu laugh toicorn.
" hich can with extacy the breaift difteitd
Or with diftraaing woe the -bosom rend, * *
Blest with fticcefs, which bids the man excel;
Uiibteft transfixes with the pams of.hdl ;
Or leaves condemn'da life of woe to boar,
Loft to the world tire victims of despair.
Wrttoh.th4tl.aUß'! ah ! who do I addnefs ?
One that difdams my endless truth to bless:
Who diftdietos that truth tlfat love contemns ;
W«h cold unfeeling heart, asftign'd, condemns
Pierced as Lam, and hopetef's as a cure,
The vary sorrows I for her endure.
InTenfete woman ! is her Abfom flone ?
All virtue, passion, all ftnfttion, gone ?
Ffeels-not tor heart. ? or.feeKng brinks with shame
That Jove.to acknowledge, which it'dares difciaim >
Ofay, Eftrina, -whete has nature-fled ?
Or dar it thou-ftffle maturcm-thy heart ?
Root out the:beftoJfe<ftions of the .foul,,
For wealth to flaunt and influenoe to controul ?
And with unblufting impudence deny
Love s power and-being, -with an inipioUs Jie,
Which mad -for licies feigns"^ lo vtrspstt !
Each, way prefßnts to my dHlradted brain
A dark enigma .which -I eanit oaplain,
Can there tojfoch a.saw, so foir, be join'd
A mind ?
A Facv which looks so deftitutt of art:
\a 'r c ? nceal a dark '. 'nfidious, heart ?
And Judas-like, the lips with kindnrfs glow,
T ""l-meditatesthe feartt bldw ?
Is this Efhrma ? this the poerlefs.maid,
Whose love my bosom fir'd iaybolbm !
O let me bless the fortunate'decree
Which fct my spirit from her bondV free ;
Yes, let her §o, and "glorying in her lhame,"
Of love connubial gain the idle name ;
And of the idol of her heart poflefi,
Revel in wealth and fancy (he is bleli,
I A whjle the vain delusions to enjoy,
Which trtithj(hell chjtfe, -pcrffcffion fhalW.tflroy.
I AstheMght fnlftj!,-which 4im'the«torning Iky,
I Before fhe'fup fly ;
So fl»ll-tbey pass, and no defired«eturn
,1 Banife.the JjoVies they (hall leave to maurn.
I Deceitful paflion, which my foul ensnares,
'WhieH Wafts my bores, ,my wry life, impairs,
J Bear;me tojwhere thy frenzy wills to bear,
I But fhiejd .fifojn-woe, frqln pah'EftrinaXpare !
j Fortho' lift ; his-arm,
I hie, *nd4ierbeauti«s ckarrfi,
I I vicw4wr forpi, I gpse upon'her sacs,'
il 3'woh, wmue, honour, beauty, there J tlace ;
charm? atound-her move;
j fr-tejuda, country, glory, what are ycui to Love !
J Cowmen Ijhou .dark, and damned -fiend despair \
.1 With all my bofomtear,
J O bid the -tears of ajgony to roll,
1 And wi{Ji ifaftncidic anguifli rack the foul!
j C«une with tj>y frantic, 'furious, demon train,
] 'Bear tne to,fome ordarkfomeglen
•I "Where rAvens croak, tghofts-yell, andierpents hiss,
I And'hfrU.fetfms topen'd in dread ahyfr:
| ®here, joiflid witfi tjiee, ibrjev.er let.nje dwell,
I £qd wait -that passion which I cannot tjuell ;
( l jintily Eftrii®, nor wi<h ruffian force,
I Pxefuijke .to touch 'her bofotn Wttii retnqrfe !
j O.beanteous woman! who while life fliall Uft,
I .(So.in.the J&ttuee as in al! flje.pafi)
J fJnchahg d fha.lt tflew-irty-conftant'loveremain
J *Fai-cweN—and endlefcipleefiirefe'fliy gain.
J ll° * rom from comfort hurlM,
I To plunge the in (jie dar-k, teinpeftuous woiiW;
I Sadly.to -miftgle -with .the.motly thcong,
I Bocnewildlyby the eddying waves along,
I By-Totrpo/s, woes, and agonies, diftreft
I With to places I detest ;
j With fore*d foliiitude >be gain to Woo,
■I My-heart cdiitehjna, tny-fnte eommand»purfue.
1 1 'le»»e'that •happy mean -thatpeaceful -way,
| Whsseon Ihro'fife my-feet <Weuld wi<h to fftray,
I 'forgotten in the drear retreat
I Whsreilaak, "eliili, poverty has her feat.j
j Qr eji'e to;rife, With wealth oppreit and c'loy'd,
" j Wealth -tafteiels,- empty, hateS
I Yes ynenjCy'd, IJntse, without you, no ray
jOf cheating'joy, fhall-gihi my.gloomy 'day.
J But be -yeru happy, ,fpiy ytwhtrfband prove
<1 More 6h*njy»arhji>pe,iric.re worxhf-of -your love.
J Q*nay-yptjr children, rich in every.grace,
,j Catch the bright features of their mother'sftce,
J And-Jive aflorn'd Iwfth all that can engage,
I Jby of youryctqth aid'fofetfe #-yx)ur age.
| While 1 fhali snk umrnify to (be grave,
I Ifoieyetoyity, out«ftretch'd arm-to five;
"I Loft wenhatrimg prftifcs of the good
I iNor injmyoifeiTriijgiiappily rrnew'd
J in,life-afflicted, dtflolate,unprized;
j Jn Death.unknown, negle««d and defpiled.
1 February., 4^93.
I M/R gji'L£,
BY MATTHEW GA'REY, No. riß,
1 Ma«k<!t-Stteet,
An "KfTay on Slavery:
| Drfipiied tojeUiibii in a View fcoitit qf view,
it-s.efteiUon ratals, indylry, and (he .peace of
'I St»me tafi« and calculations are offered
I 10 P*OVe the labor Uffreiutn to be murfi moVe
I fteduMut i-hanithit oi JUves.-,. councils arc
I ricb,,pawettul and h«ppy, >n proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own '
Übdr; and Hence-the tii er-tfary conclufio#, tlijt
I ft*vefy xrtrmpnlkic is tirjuft.
r !P R I c t CentA.
is. ' dtf
Tiic following Certifi
cale °T ihef<» three per Cepl Sioek of the
'DbOltWc'Debt of the Uniied States standing on
the books ofnlte Tfeifury of she laid Urfued
■States, in,the names of Donmatd and Burton of
, i-ondon, merchants, and figoed by Joseph
NourfiL Register of (aid Tr. afuty, to wit : '
oltdd "94' th Auebli 1702 for aqcq
- 4eit<s-was tranlFniitied f fV6m L^ri
don in the fliip Peter, Paul-Hufiey, master,
bound far New Yorfc, and has been loft —.
The Subscriber intend to apply to the Tiea
' Tuiyol the Unitrd States to have the fame re
newed, defites «ll pei Tons who are inlerefted in
•the (aid certificate, to make tlietr -objections
thereto, ;f aiiy they hjtve.
Francis Macy.
Phijad- March fj, ( 16w
NORR 1 8-COO R T,
Back as flic New Lijri-y, b-Jtweeu Chefnut
Htul Walnt .-Streets-
GeOrge Rutter,
RF.S '] FULLYi liformshis friends and
tlieiptftilic ttVgeneral, that he continues
g»;*yiflg on thebufinePiof
Sign ami Fire-Bucket Pairrtiltg,
I.ikswifc, JAPANNED i»LATETS,
for do*riorWlnaow-Jhutters,dorrti ihtlfe nio'H
elrgaot Biiiooerj and with dispatch.
Orders from the-tounfry will be thankfully
received, sn'd'dSly attrrltled to.
i December dtf' ■*"' ■ ■" ' ' "V t ■■
Congress of the United States-
Howje of Reprejenidtivcs
March 10.
Mr. Giles's Speech Concluded,
All this machinery leflens the number
of the productive* and increases the num
ber of unproductive hands of the nation
in Great Britain. The operation "has
been extended so far, that the poor rates
alone, probably afforded a greater tax per
capita than the whole taxes paid fn the
United States. He was altonifhed with
these fatal examples before our eyes, that
there should be any gentlemen, who would
wish to enter into this falhionable system
of politics. He said the United States
had already progressed full far enough in
to this system.
For-executively of the ordinary expence
of the civil lift a debt had been funded
upon principles of duration. An army
had been raised at an immense expense,
and now there was a proportion for a na
vy. He obfjrved that for several years
pjft the appropriations for the support of
the military establishment, had exceeded
a million of dollars per annum, from o.ne
million to one million and a half annually.
He believed that if the expenca had been
foremen, there would have been more ac
tive efforts to have avoided it. It was a
policy at this day very generally condemn
ed : yet we are now to exhibit a counter
pait of this policy upon the ocean, with
this aggravation: that it will commence
with greater certain expence, and with a
more uncertain obje£t. The system of
governing by debts he conceived the most
l-effned iyitem of tyranny. It seems to
have been a contrivance devised by politi
cians, to succeed the old system of feudal
tenures, both systems were tyrannical, but
• the objects of their tyranny were different.
The system of feuds operated upon the
perfQti ot the individual—the system of
debts operates upon the pockets of
the individual. In the feudal lyftem th*
tenant often received some indulgence and
lenity from the martial generosity which
generally characterized the Lord. The
Lord was gratified with the acknowledg
ment of the tehant, that he was a slave,
and the rendition of a pepper corn, as
an evidence of it ; the product of theten
ant'slabor,wasleftforhis awn support. The
fyftemof debtsaffords no such indtilgencies;
its true policy is to devise objudts of ex
pence, and to draw the great,Jl pofftllefum
frorp the people in the leqfi mode.—
It boalts not of ceconomifmg in calls upon
the people for contributions.—lt boasts
not of ceconomifmg in the objects of ex
penditure.—lt consults the obedience and
not the happiness of the people. There
is no device which facilitates the system of
expence and debts so much as a navy ; and
he declared from that conlideration, he
should value his liberty at a lower price
than he now did, if the policy of a per
manent naval establishment, should obtain
in the United States.
He saw another strong objection to the
establishment of a navy. He deemed it a
hoftageto its full value, for our good be
haviour, to the great naval powers, until
it should be able to contend with* them
for the ocean. It will encreafe rather
than lefTen our dependance upon them.
With refpeft to the other confidertitions,
their utility in affording an additional se
curity for the collection of the revenue, he
should make but one observation ; When
revenue is laid, the expence of the ma
chinery employed irt the collection, is the
primary consideration. These vessels may
therefore be considered as aquatic Jberiffs ;
but of the most expertfive order, they will
be an additional cost of at least 20 per cen
tum upon the whole revenue colk&ed ; the
expence incurred therefore will exceed the
security afforded, and of course ought not
to be incurred.
Upon the whole if these considerations
were not fufficient to induce the house to
negative the bill, he conceived the impres
sions produced upon his own mind by them,
would furnifh a juftffication for his opposi
tion. He said if thebillfhouldpafs,he should
however find a consolation in a consciousness
of his own fallibility, and a rdpeft for the
opinions of the majority who advocated it;
but imprefTedas he was with the fubjedt,
he felt it a duty, as far as he could,, to
give a veto to the measure.
"A CARD.
Mr. S. finding the ritizeh entkely mis-
taken in some of the ideas lie has taken
up in perufiug the last note- Mr. S. had
ttic honor to addref3 him, he is induced
o'ude more to eildeavtV ta set him right,
on the puiutin yiiich he thinks him at \a
rience with the flatetrent; the Adtive was
not carrying -p.ovifions to France when
taken into Falmouth—{hewas loaden from
Philadelphia with sugar and coffee, war
ranted as was be'Syre ltated, to he Ameri
can property —ihe has now however been
6 or 8 months lying in England, her char
ges and lots of time considerable, and her
final fate totally uncertain—depending
perhaps on the doubtful conftrudion of
what the meaning may be of adjudication
in a British admiralty court—The Mercu
ry was as unwarrantably seized and carried
into Jamaica, and it was lucky for Mr. S.
she escaped before the adjudicatory decree
had found its way thither—or perhaps
the valuable returns the citizen speaks of
had never been made—hut as it is, there
was a long detention sustained, and many
expences incurred for which the brig was
acquitted, no compensation was made.—
With refpedt to the John, her cafe was
peculiarly hard—she was cleared out with
a cargo of American wheat from Falmouth
to St. Maloes, befoie any war or ail of
parliament or proclamation of ,the British
king had rendered the doing so
yet she was flopped on putting into Guern
sey for a pilot—the 'cargo was taken on
account of the British government at the
price the French were to pay for it, but
the cargo deliverable at the Island of Jer
sey ; on going thither a British sloop of
war appointed'to convoy the brig, sent a
boat on board of her and tot>k the com
mand from tire Captain and crew, and pro
ceeding on the voyage, stupidly rtin the
brig on the rocks, wherfe she was io com
pleatly wrecked, that it colt near 9001.
flerling to repair her, and near 8 months
detention, for all which.the British court
refufed to make any compensation—with
what justice the citizen will judge.
I After all, it is but a sorry way of rec
| koning, to set off the wrongs we sustain
from one nation, in defiance of all law and
reason, by throwing into the scale tempo
rary inconveniences fuffered in the course
of an arduous revolution from another—
yet the French depredations have been
few in number, and not that Mr. S. knows
of, sustained without suitable reparation
being made when demanded: whether this
can be said with juflice of Britain, a few
months will enable all of us fully to decide
—Mr. S. has certainly not so far done with
them, but to have fmcerely the wish, that
they may speedily discover—how vain are
their projedts of starving or conquering
the French ; and consequently how much
more beneficial it would be even for them
selves, politically considered, tq fuffer our
commerce to proceed on without inter
ruption, since its riches at'laft, however
circuitoufly, center in the recompence of
their own artizans and induftrioiis rtianu
facturers.
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
Difeuffions on public men and meafuret
while conducted with decency and pursued
with candor, merit attention, as the pub
lic have a right to be vigilant arid inform
ed as to the condudfc of their servants—but
how far Mr. Fenno your cofrefpondent
Honeftus comes under this description, the
public will judge, since he has ventured in
disguised allusions to arraign the character
of one, who, though he is pleased to stile
him an orator lately sprung up among us
—he hath probably better, or at least as
well founded claims of public ufefulnefs as
moil of his age—ln 1776, from the early
period of the life of the Orator, it was
certainly not in his power to take an ac
tive part in the field with his American
brethren, but his taking the oath of alle
giance to the government in 1777, was cer
tainly fufficiently indicative of his disposi
tion to prove serviceable when he could to
the cause of American independence and
freedom : In 1781, he was appointed re
ceiver of taxes for Pennsylvania, and trea
surer to the departmentof finance,in which
Actions of great importance at that day,
he was happy to have a power of lending
an aiding hand ia the trsnfadtions which
led to the peace of 1783. —Ever since em
ployed in adtive and extensive scenes of
commerce, beneficial at once to the coun
try and himfelf, he has never concerned
himfelf with politics, further than to as
sist and support men and measures, he
thought calculated for public ufefulnefs on
the plan of 1776, & in this independent
, I
carccr," neither the renom of private malic
nor the rage of public factions flia
interrupt him—no, nor even the polit
iiifißiiations of good Mr. Honellus.
Z.
Foreign Intelligence.
RECEIVED BY THE
BRITISH JANUARY PACKET.
COPENHAGEN, December 34.
THE ministers of the powers adhiallv al
war with the French Convention, having
ften a Note appear, printed and addrefled tc
those engaged in commerce in the north,
signed Ph. Grouvelle, who therein calls
hintfelf Minister Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic, were not less furprizjd at it than
was the public in general.
Whatever may be the pol cy »f the Danilh
government, of which the form is so abso
lute, in permitting the French milJionaries to
propagate here, under pretewt of negocia
tions of commerce, their fyltem, whole end
is to separate the people from their govern
ment, they thought it their dufy not to fee
with indifference a step so bold and remark
able. In confcqucnce thereof, they presented,
in a body, a Note, to be informed wh ther
the said Grouvelle had really been acknow
ledged as ft:rh by his Danilh Majesty : which
note the minister, Count de Bernftorft', an
swered by a formal difavowa!.—The public
will wife to fee the official notes which pas
sed on the occasion.
STATE PAPERS.
Note of thi Foreign Minijiers to M. Rernjlorff.
" The ministers of the powers at present
at war with France, at the Court of His Da
nilh majesty, having been made acquainted
with a paper, printed and addrefied to the
Danilh merchants, signed by Grouvelle, sty
ling himfelf minister plenipotentiary of the
foi d'tfant French Republic, have the honour
to transmit a copy of it to his excellency the
Count de Bernftorft', praying him to be pleat
ed to inform them, whether the paper is au
thentic and authorized, and if, in reality, the
said Grouvelle is authorized by his Danilh
majesty in that charafler, at this public ast
makes them presume,
(Signed) "J. Fagtl, D. Hailes,
" Goi/xj Breiirtncr,
" Kmrdentr'. Mufquin.
" Coptn/Mgen, Dec. 13, 1793."
Anfiver of the Dani/h Mini/lcr, Count de
Bernjlorjf.
" Having given an account to the King,
my milter, of the note transmitted to me ou
the xjth instant, by the ministers of the pow
ers at war with Prance,hi'3 majesty has or
dered me to anfiver, that lie had seen in l the
note, with pain, a proof of that diftruit for
which he was certain he had given no occa
sion ; that, if it was notorious that the Na
tional Convention had appointed Grouvelle
minister plenipotentiary in Denmark, it was
equally known, that he had neither been re
ceived nor acknowledged in Denmark in that
quality; and such an acknowledgment, which,
by its nature, is a public a<3, could net but
be generally known. His .majesty, always
faithful to his declarations, cannot and ought
not to be fufpe&ed of having any intention
of failing in them. I ought to make one re
mark—no truth is more evident, nor more
universally acknowledged, than this, that no
body can be answerable for the actions of an
other ; and still more, when it relates to a
step unforefeen, unknown, and-with which it
\vas impofiible to have any toncirn.
(Signed) "Brums torff.
" Copenhagen, Dec. 18, 179 J."
Reply of the Britifb Mini/far to the answer of
Mr. Heniflorjf*
" The Note of Count de Bernftorff, in
answer to that from the Ministers of the pow
ers actually at War with France at ike Court
of his Danilh Majesty, in fatisfying the En
voy extraordinary of' his Britannic Majesty,
individually, as to the objtifl which had oc
calicned, about eighty years ago, their Note, ,
which only contained a simple qucllion on
the real or supposed cxiftenee of a fs<£t, im
plies, in the terms used in it, db accusation
against which he prctefts for himfelf ( « hile
those with whom he had the honor to a<st
may make their reprrfentations on it either
verbally or in writing) with the fame emo
tion with which he felt how little it was me
rited. If it could have been believed for a
moment that feis Danilh Majesty could forget
his declarations, the novelty of the fa<st, thch
a* the uliirpation of an aftivc and public cha
ratfter, left unpunilhed by the Gowrnment,
was a very just and natural motivtffqr their
common Note. The under signed Minister
is ready to avow, that he had not «<juallv
Itrong for i'uppofmg, that it was possible for
the King of Denmark to receive, as Plenipo
tentiary to his august and sacred person, him
who undertook the office of reading to bis
unhappy and innocent Sovereign the sentence
which brought him to the Scaffold,
(Signed) D. HAILES."
PARIS, December 31.
On this day was ceh.lo~ated the grand Fete
in hoijor of the fucccfiet of the Republican
1 he following gciieiai ot-Jer \i'ai i£.
liied.
: " By a decree of the Council General oft
[1 the commons, the adjutants and others are-'
e forbidden to seize upon the arms placed up
on the coffins of their late brothers in arms,
under pain.of prosecution. The Rcpubi;cans
are forbidden to take off their hats, or to
; forbid any others to do so. Every man is
to do as he pleases.
(Signed) " Henriot."
Toui of the jirifoners,
LEWES, January 6.
On Saturday last the earl of Egremont's
Christmas bounty, consisting of ten'fat oxen,
and ?,000 gallon loaves, was dillributed a
mongst 2-o poor families, at Petworth, and
in the adjacent pari/hes.
Two fine oxen were lately slaughtered and
diftributcd to the poor of Battel, by order of
Sir G. Webster, bart.
The Rev. Mr. Fearon, at Cuckfield, gave
a good dinner to all the fcldiers quartered in
that town, about 40 in number, on Christmas
day last.
The inhabitants of Brighton, at a vestry
held at the JJew ship, on Friday last, deci.
ded against a general iqotulation in that town
CONGRESS.
IN SENATE,
Wednesday, March 19th, 1794.
The bill sent from the House of Repre
: fentatives for concurrence, entitled, " an
ast to provide a naval armament," was
read the third time.
Resolved, That this bill piss with a
mendments.
Ordered, That the Secretary desire
the concurrence of the Hoiife of Rcpre
fentatives in the amendments to this fciJJ.
The report of the committee to whom
j was referred the petition, of Jabez Roger#,
junr. was read.
On motion,
Ordered, That it he adopted and that
the committee be inftrufted to bring in a
bill for the purpofej therein exprefled.
Mr. Bradley from the committee last
mCDtione J, reported a bill for the remif
(ion of the duties on diflilled spirits de
stroyed by lire, which was read the firft
time.
Oi derrd, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
The bill sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled "an
ast to prohibit the carrying 011 the (lave
trade from the United States to any fo
reign place or country," was read the
- tlint* tiimr. —— ————- -—
Resolved, That this bill pass.
Ordered, That the Secretary notify
the House of Representatives of the con
currence of the Senate in this bill.
The bill sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled " an
an making appropriations for the fnpport
of the military cftabTifhment of the Uni
nited States, for the year, one tboufand
seven hundred and ninety four," was read
the third time.
Resolved, That this till pr.f3.
Ordered, That the Secretary notify the
House of Representatives of the concur
rence of the Senate in this bill.
. The bill sent from the House of Repre
sentatives for concuncnWe, entitled "an
ast t«> provide for the erecting and Repair
ing of arsenals and magazines and for o
thcr piu^ofc3," was read the second time.
Ordered, i hat this bill be referred to
Mr. Gunn, Mr. King and Mr. Bradley,
to conikler and report thereon to the Se
nate.
On motion,
Ordered, That leave be given to bring
in a bill to uutKoriic the Preiident of the
United States in certain cafe», to alter
the place for holding a iefiion of Con
gress.
The bill was accordingly laid on the
table and read the firjt time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their Clerk :
" Mr. Prefidcnt—The House of Re
presentatives agree to the amendments of
the Senate, to the bill entitled " an ast to
provide a naval armament."—And be
withdrew.
Mr. Vining repotted from the commit
tee on enrolled bilk, that they had exami
ned the enrolled " Refaction authorizing
the Prefidcnt of the United State* to em
ploy as dispatch boats, focfi of the reve
nue ciittcrs as the public exigencies may
require," and that k was duly enrolled.
A mcfiage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Ecckky tL*ar Cleik:
'■ Mr. Prefulent—Xiie Speaker of tk
House ol Reprelvrttaiives baring" figwfHi
an enrolled retiution, I am <l»re£ei Ut
4bring it to the Senate for the figr.ature of
the Vice-Prefident.—And lie-withdrew.
The Vice-President signed the lad men
tioned enrolled resolution, and it was de
livered to the committee on enrolled bills
to be laid before the President of the Uni
ted States for his approbation.
The Senate adjourned until U o'clock
to morrow morning.
Thursday, IVLirch 20th, 1794.
The bill to authorize the President of
the United States its certain cats, to al
ter the place for holding a fefiion of Coij
gTrfs, was read the fecona time.
Ordered, That this bill be referred to
Mr. Livermore, Mr. Gunn and Mr. Ellf
vorth to consider and report thereon to
the Senate.
T'nc bill for the remifiiun of the duties
on ceitaiii distilled (pirits destroyed by
fire, nas read the second time.
Ordered, That the rule be dispensed
with, and that this bill be now read the
third time.
Resolved, That this bill pass, that it
be engrossed, and that the title thereof
he, " j»n ast for the rcmiffian of the du
ties on certain distilled spirits destroyed by
fire."
Ordered, That the Secretary desire the
recurrence of the Ho life of Reprefenta
tivis in this bill.
Mr- Cabot from the committee to whom
was- referred the bill, entitled " an ast li
miting the time for presenting claims for
i&flioyed certificates of certain defcrip
tieos," reported amendments.
Ordered, That they be printed for the
of the Senate.
Mr. Vining reported from the commit
tee on enrolled bills, that they did yefler
day, lay the en oiled " Resolution autho
rizing the President of the United States
la employ as difyatch boats, such of the
sssrage cutters as the public exigencies
require," before the President of the
United States for his approbation-—Also,
tliat they had examined the following en
re'fcd bilTs to wit: The bill entitled "an
ast making appropriations for the.support
- cf the military eftabJifhrnent of the Uni
ted States, for the year one thonfand fe
int hundred-and ninety four"—The bill -
entitled "-air ast so prohibit the ciriying
c i the (Tave trade from the United States,
to any foreign place or country," And
the MI entitled., " an. act to provide a na
armament," and that they were duly
enrol! ed.
A message from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Bcckley their Cleric :
"Mr. Piefk'ent—The President, of the
Unified Stages hath notified the House of
Rqjre&ntatives, that he this day approv
al and signed, the following acts—to
wit t "An ast making further provision
fcir the expetiees attending the interconrfe
rf the United States with foreign nati
ons j and further to continue in force the
entitled, "An ast providing the
ttearor of intercburfe between the United
Stattes and foreign nations"—■" An ast
awhor'fmg a loan of one million of dol
ors"—" An'aft to provide for the defence
ef certain ports and harbours in the Unit
ed' States'' and" The Resolution autho
rawg: the President of the United States
Reemploy asdiipntch boats, fi>ch of the
„ Tcvermrr cotters as the public exigencies
tnay require."
" Tire Speaker of the House of Re
prefeflativos having signed three enrolled
tills,. I am directed to bring them to the
P-.lifte for the signature of the Vice Pre
fdent." And he withdrew.
" Vice-President signed the enrol
led bill, entitled " an ast making appro
pr ations for the support of the military
e.TaßMment of the United States, for
tfi« year one thonfand seven hundred and
ninety four"—The enrolled bill entitled
" atr ast to prohibit the canying on the
ffew trade from the United States, to any
foreign place or country"—And the en
rolfctl bill, entitled, «an ast to provide
* naval armament" and they were deliver
rd »r> tfcr committee, to be larid before the
PrdWent of the United States for his
spprobation.
Sir. Cunn from the committee to whom
rrferred the bill entitled " an ast to
groritfe for erecting and repairing of ar
ma S azines > a "d for other pur
reported amendments, which were
adopted.
OWeretf, That this bill pass to the third
The to 11 o'clock to
Kicrrow morning.
S& TX* Eajfern mail is not arr\cked+
AMERICA.
• CHRISTIAtfST.ED, (in St. Crewl,}.
March 8.
A gentleman who left Dominique on
WeJnefday forenoon lalt, and arrived here
011 Thursday everting, informs us that the
English had not opened their batteries on
Fort Bourbon, until the 4th instant, du
ring which time, there was a very confiant
and briflc cannonade, whicl> he could dif-
at Roseau.
The loss of a sloop, loaded with war
like stores, from Dominique, was the
cause of this delay. Ttie greateftpart of
the ltores was saved.
This gentleman also informs us that 68
American vefiels have been lately condemn
ed in that Ifljnd by a Court of Admiralty,
UNITED STATES.
CHARLESTON, March 19.
MONDAY night a riot took plae at the
Theatre, which had nearly produced some
very serious conlequencts. Two or three
Frenchmen, belonging to the privateers or
their nation now in the harbor, having treat
ed some ladies in the boxes with much rude
ness and indecency, were very properly and
deicrvcdly turned out of the house. la cou
fequence of this measure, they went down
to tiie bay, where they reported that one of
their countrymen had been murdered. They
(hortly after returned with a considerable
number of sailors, headed by the Captain of
the Lafcarzas, and accompanied by a well
known refiient ox this city. They were all
armed with cutlafles and other offenlivS wea
pons. The evening's entertainment being
juit over at this time, they indiscriminately
attacked the persons who were coming out
of the Theatre, several of whom were . •ound- I
ed. Not content with thfcfe heroic feats, they
proceeded to demolilh some carriage*,, cutting
the traces, and wounding the horses. The
alarm bell being rung, a great many of the
inhabitants, who had retired to reft, left their
beds, and repaired to the lceue of action.
Parties from the several military corps were
out, and with some' difTicuity the no: was
quelled. Fourteen of the ringleaders were
fecared, and lodged in the guard-hotife, some
of them being much hart before they sub
mitted, and tfcrce others were paroled.
They remained under a strong guard.
Among the prisoners is the lieutenant of
the Lafcarzas, who iV laid to be wounded.
The captain was paroled, and a guard ap
pointed to escort him to his lodging to
prevent any injury being offered to his per
j son. ft*
The police will now give the inhabitants
an opportunity of jud-iag whether they <
are to expect protection to their persons
or whether they are to be irtfulted.abufed,
and their lives endangered \vith impunity.
It may be some consolation to reflect,
that the violent outrage above related, did
not originate with any of our fellow-citi
2ens. Au the fame time, hawser, it is
a mortifying confederation, ,that a want of
energy in the execution of our I.tws, or an
unjuftiliable partiality to any particular de
scription of peopre, "should fiibjeft. the
peaceable inhabitants of this city to the
insults of ruffians, who are permitted to
parade the llreets at pleasure, armed ajid
ready for mifchief.
Yesterday a Special Court of Wardens
was held in the City-Hall, for the trial of
the Rioters. There were fifteen- in all
After examining a number* of witnefTes, the
coilrt sentenced ten of them to a fine of
twenty fhillinga each, for being on the'
shore at an improper time j.three are to re
main in custody till they can give bail for
their appearance at the next Court of Ge
neral Sessions, to take their trial for a
Riot, art)J two were accquitted.
The Csjjtain and Lieutenant of the
Lafcarzas, together with one Therie, said
to be a resident in Charleston, gave bail,
and-are to be tried next gehera? teflions ar
leaders in the riot.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 2.
JExtra?} of a letter frofn Lijbon, 3d Feb?*u£ry.
" All the American vefTels, pow here, will
soon be failing under the protection of a con
voy, which is to be granted by government.
Our squadron, it is believed, wi& again take
their station in the Streights, as the truce will
not be ratified."
The writer of this letter speaks favorably
with regard to the success of the French ar
mies in every quarter.
Extrati of a letter dated St. EuJlatia, March
nth, 1794.
" We expect (hortly to be on a certainty
here with refpeit to the trade carried on- by
neutral vefiels, as late inftruftionMo ships of
• » . ' ' .
fwar and privateer*, are much in favor of OAI • j
tral property'"
AT a meeting of the "fruflfecs appoint
ed tofuptrintend the eoHe&ion, nwiiagc
tnent and distribution oi the Fund contem
plated to relieve and redeem those unfortu
nate citizens who, failing cm board of ves
sels belonging to the Poit of Philadelphia,
have been captured ind enslaved.by the Al
gerine or any otucr Piratical State; held
at the City-Hall the 29th irift. The fol
lowing Letter from David Ritteniioufe,
inaniwer to a letter advising him of hisap
j pointmentastreafurer of the fund,was laid
ncfore the Board ; it was ordered that the
thanks of tlie Board be presented to David
Ri:tenhou(e, Esq. and that his letter be
publiihed.
To Mr. R Bert ftl'Jfean, Secretary to
the Board of Trutltes.
SIR,
" Please to return my thanks to the
" Vruftees for the honor they have done
= " me, in appointing me Trealurer of the
" Fund for relieving our fellew-citizeru
' " who are prisoners at Algiers. I (hould
" not think my felf jnftiiiable in declin
. " ing to accept that Tiuft, was it not for
1 - " the ve. y bad ilate of my health. But
" on that account I mufl beg the Trustees
1 "to appoint some other pcrfcn in my
' " Head, and likewifc to accept of ope hun
" pred dollars, which I will cause to be
f " paid to that Charitable Fund, when
[ "■ ever called upon.
[ I am Sir, moll refpe&fully,
Your humble servant,
David Rittenhouse. "
On motion to appoint a Treasurer of
the Fund, David Rittenhoufe, Esq. thus,
declining to serve,
John Barclay, Esq. wasunani
moufly. appointed—Whereupon,
Ordered, That the several Commit
tee for Colledlion be- refpeftfullv re
quested to pay into his hands the several
collections and donations they may re
ceive, as early as convenient after their
reception of them. >
By order of the board,
ROBERT M'KEAN, See'ry,
EXPORTS of PENNSYLVANIA.
Dollars.
Eor one year, ending on the
30th Sept. 1792, 3,820,646
For o.ne year, ending on the
30th Sept. 1793, 6,958,796
Foronequarterof ayear,from")
the ift of Oft. 1793, to,the L 1,740,689
311'tDec. 1793, inclusively J
By the foregoing statement it is efta-
Jifhcd, that during and finer the term of
the malignant fever which was imported
into Philadelphia in the !a(t year, that
port and the state of Pefllfvlvaniaenjoyed
an unprecedentedcommercial and agricultu
ral prosperity.
CONGRESS.
House of Reprcfeniativct.
Tuesday, April 1.
A number of private petitions- were read
and committed.
Two petitions againfl the excise law were
read—one from sundry persons in the Wes
tern part of Pennfylvama— the other from
persons in the state of Maryland.
A bill was received from the Senate For
concurrence, entitled an " Ait granting re
lief to the widow and orphan children of
Robert Forfyth," late Marlhal of the l)if T
tricl of Georgia.
The House then took into consideration
the refolutionc with' the amendments of the
committee 0/ 1 he whole, for placing the force
of the Unit' dSiates.in a more efficient ftate —
and agreed to the fame after Itriking out the
provilo in the last, viz. " Provided, That no
nich m;aiures be taken by the executive un
til war (hall be a(stually commenced between
the United-States and some foreign' European
power."
A committee was then appointed to bring
hi a bill or bills, pursuant to the resolutions,
for which, fee Gazette of Saturday last.
In committee of the whole on the Post-
Office bill—sundry amendments were agreed
to —which were reported to the House, and
laid on the table till to-morrow.
Adjourned.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Ship Aurora, Strong, Charleston
Sloop Sally, Hcfs, Bermuda
ExtraQ of a letter, from Captain Norton,
of the fcbootier Andrew, of Philadelphia 4
to his owner itt this City, dated at Cape-
Nichola-Mole, 12 th March.
I have been cajstur«d by the British fiv
1 ,- ~ * '
gate, Ae Alligator, an J feru m here—
they have raken from me, J<#2 dollars,
and 180 Crowns. I had not iixpence
worth of I reach property when *-f was
Optured.— [am ordered ta Jamaica, in
company with 4 othfif Atnftntan Schoon
"*•
, -ft? iTl«e vcfTels yelterday's
Gazette, as. arrivals, ftioiUd have been
noted as Clearances
The poll office bill pal Ted the House
® da t to be engrossed for a third read
'"B- i
. - The Gentlemen who ha-i*t her. appointed
to procure Subscriptions for the Alge'rine
Juiid, are rcquejled to meet at M'Sham's
Jav£r:iy at*] o clock to-trior row evenhi^.
April 2. >. .a . (
PROPOSALS
.. For Printing by Subscription,
An Original Novel,
In Pour J olumcs, duodecimo,
Dedicated, by Permiflion, to Mrs. Bingham,
1 . £ » T IT L E D,
Trials of the Human Heart.
By Mrs. ROWSON,
Of the New Theatre, Philadelphia, Author
of V.L&oria. Charlotte. Fille
d? Chambre, ice. Sec.
" there ' s a p® w ' r «s,
« ™ , ?, C , ro "> a !' Na ture cries aloud
Thro'all her WorksJ. he mult delight in
" virtue,
" And that wjifch lie delights in. must be
" happy."
The foul, I'ecn£"(l i„ her exiflence-fmiles'
At the drawn dagger, & defies its poirftf
CONDITIONS.
J. The work to be printed with a neat type
on good paper.
U ' P' ice-tofubfcribers four doll,rs.bound,
one half to be paid at the time of fubfedbi. si
111. The fublcribers'names *-ill be prefixed
15 patrons of tlie undertaking.
*.* Subscriptions are received by the Au
thor, the cornpr of Seventh and Ch.fiiut
,1 Carey, Rica, and Dobfon,
Philadelphia— Mr. Green, Annapolis—Mes
srs. Allen, Berry, and. S. Campbell, New
York-M.-flVs. Weft, Thoma-.and A ,drew,
Blake, and Larkin, Boston—Mr. Hafwell.
Vermont—Meflrs. Rjce, and Edwards, Ball
timore—Mr. W. P. Youflg, Charleston.
AP rU . 2 - ; mw&f 3 w
The Profits arising from the following publi
cation are fir the benefit of the Poor. «
Jutt published* printed by R. Aitken aftrf
Son, and fold by,J. Crukfhank, W. Young-
T. Dobfon, and the other Booksellers,
MINU T £ S
• , OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed 011 tl>e 14th September 1793., by
the Citizens of Philadelphia, the Northern
Liberties, and the D.ftrift of Soutbwark
to attend to and alleviare the fnfTerirgs of
the afflicted -with the Malignant Fevei,pre
valent, in tlfe City and its vicinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
• * CONTAINING
A lift of perlons adm tted into the Hofpl
tal at Bu(h hill, flrewing the times of tlieir
admiflion, death and discharge.
Number of Houses, Deaths, &c. in she
refpe&ive streets, alleys, and courts, in the '
city of Philadelphia, Noithern Liberties, ahd
0 ftrift of Southwark*
A l:ft of the Inte ments in the Bur a
grounds is the city of Philadelphia, Northern
Liberties, and Dlftrift of Southwark, with a
meteorological account of the weather.
A fumniary of donations in calh and provi
sions, received from sundry persons and pla
ces, for the us: of the poor and afflicted.
A P ril 2 - . d3w
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
April 2.
Will be performed,
A TRAGEDY, called the
Grecian Daughter.
IVith new Scenes drfigned and executed by
Mr. MiUj'jurne.
To which will be added, ' »
A COMIC OPERA, in two acH, never
performed hers, ca!Ted tfi4
Son in Law.
Written by the author of the Poor SoMfef,
Cranky, | Mr. Fmrh
Bowkitt,' Mr. Francis
Houquei, Mr. Moreton
Vinegar, Mr. Bates
Idle, Mr. H-lrwood
Orator Mum# Mr. BliflTett
Landlord, Mi'. Wairell
John, , . Darley, jim.
Signior Arionelb, (the ltaliun C'pr/z Singer)
[Mr. Marftall
Cecilia, Mrs. Warreit
Dolce, Mist WiUem®
■ 1 ;■ *
For Amsterdam,
The new fall-failing, cppper
ffSbStSfc, bottomed- SHI?
Mm ADRIAN A,
mms&OiL K. Fitzpatrick, MaSer.
BUILT of five oak apd cedar an(l was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
ill csnvenient speed. For freight or pafTage,
having excellent accommodations, apply »n
board at Walnut ftrect wharf, or to
TUOS. tsf JOHN ZETLAND.
N. B. PafTeiigers will be landed in Mos
- land if required.
March 6, 1794. dtf
x For Sale or Charter,
1 *S£3S-~- The S«r*
(An American bottom )
John Moore, Mqftdr.
IS a stout good ve(6l, about tw« years ol<(,
burthen 232 tons, bu only m»de three voy
ages, and may be Cent to sea at a small e*-
penee. She may be f#et» at Vlne-ftr € et wharj;
and the ternjs made knownjb-y application to
WHARTON fa" IeWIS.
Mareh it, v dtf
For Norfolk Fredericksburgb, ,
The Br'tg
.SALLY,
Johm JUrj.. Matter.
A staunch good vefljbl, will tail in a few l
days. For freight or pafTage, apply to the
rqaiter onboard at Chefnut ftreefwhitf', or
; to
JOSEPH ANTHONr &. SON.
March 31. dtf
The American Brig
BURTHEN 7QP barrel?, wfc h*r tackle
ana apparel as lhe came from sea, She is -a
Haunch vefTul, not two ywsoid, and maybe
put to sea immediately. For terms apply
to
GAR&JNER & OLDEM x
Arch Street wharf,
Who have for fait.
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
a quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and a few
cafe* Toothy S#etL-^alft>
fig and Bar Iron, and Jrop cast
ings, in any form executed on the
(horteft notice.
March 14. *<bet
Just Imported,
In the 6hip Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
, from AmiterdajM, and now landing
on Wainut-ftreet wharf, viz.
GW in pipes,
Afow bajes Holland Duck,
Ditto Oametburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Jipufitr Uerfkf,
Oiajs Ware, viz,. Tumblers and Mugs, war
rtous Jitfs.
' Sheathing Pdpcr,
Swedes Iron, /quart andflat hers,
hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch (Jreal Coats;,
A quantity of JunK And Oakum, £9*-. (Sfc.
FO"R SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jtin, ,
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
ihouidapplication be mads within a few days;
Other.wi/eJke mill ttikc freight, for Amjler
etam.
March i, ty94. d— tf
vvaSTEO
AN APPRENTICE
To the PsinUog Bufiaefe, Enquire at this
Oilise.
advertisement.
To th« dmiefTed inhabitants of St. Do
mingo now in Philadelphia.
The Ul.i JUl:ou ot the money allotted to
them Will Dc made on Wednesday next, at the
iouth. Welt cOrner ft recti
fruiu nine o'clock 'tillnoo., and from three
to five afternoon.
Aux Habitants de St- Domingue de nue»
de toute faculte a Phiiaddphic.
La Diitubution de ia lomine actume*: le fcra
Micn-dj procliaiu, au Com d 4* Rue lud outtt
de 1' £.«ju & Dc Rue tie Walnut, enue ncuf
hearesit u>»di &dc uois &Cmquc apres midi.
The Ptuuerft ot fuihdtipbia, are to
qucfted to repu&itih tlie above.
In the Name of the French
Republic.
VERY Frenchiiian is forbid to violate
XL the Neutrality of the United States.
All commiifions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents oi the French
Republ IC. J
-flniauclphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
(March 6th, 17914, o. s.)
The Munlkr -rtenipou-ntiary of the French
Republic. - JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of newlpapefs within the
United States, are requelted to repubiifh ihe
foregoing notice. 4
. ■ . 1 *
IMPORTED
r In the Brig George and Harriot, from
< Havre 4t Grace,
AND FOR SALE BY
Louis Ofmont,
, ~ A PERFECT
Aftortment of Hanging Paper,
high coloured and plain.
White silk Stockings, high dressed and .put
up Euglilb fjfli'ffirt.
The handsomest artificial Flowertawd Fca-
I tiers.
Some Looking Gljifs Plates to be Aid by jths
cafe.
A few hampers of Champaigne wine fix
years old.
ALSO,
An elegant pare*! of
Bearikin Muffs,
And ¥*ry baamtftil SiWt Cloaks, which on
account of tJie feafnn wiHbe fold !■%, and at
a long credit.
LtK£WISE
42 pipesMadeirawine,
aud a few calks of Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
He will have for fair,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn b^ts f fans aivd chirrt in
Caie<; t » quantity of wuxjovr gl-afs \v«H Tint
ed of ail /ize , and a Jeu> pair of remarkable
Looking Glasses fraflied, all arrived a* Nor
folk, now coming round.
Mfcr?Jr 3?.* d/f
JUST PUBLISHED,,
AND FOR tAfcl RY
M.Carey, No. 11 %,ffigh-J\rect,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common S/tri/nas and
Svtynct s, which are full of Common
Sun he, the lejlfwfe m the world.
' I ''HIS wtl« b®ok is wimeii iualtuc 4iog«ther
X imvel, and is adapted to »U tifwemes, as
well <uto aJI tUflts ol people, gnetch«>:s, 111c
chatties aud fanners. Such a reputation has this
work acquired, that it has pa (fed tfvo three ioT
preffuMU 111 the tatleni itatcs, and many houte
hnlctert deem it To ttfH-wi -as to fmrrhalc 4 a Ctopy
for every adult in thei» itmifHw. '■■■" -P*. <t e *s
4. di I
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, JAPANN'B
PL A TEH, &c
Done in the omit elegant manner, and after
the firlt maftci s ; "ttkewne, -
l ire Buckets
Painted and finifhed at the fnorteit not to:, 1 y
GEORGE RUfTER,
In Noma's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chetnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth streets.
I March 4. dtf
j TO JiE SOW,
! And enterod upon the hill 01 May,
The noted Efiate, called
JobnJm Hall:
Lyn. o iuXhe ls»oiia.tiik country, IfcueofNew
Voik, tocmcily the feat of Sir William John
son, containing about tevtfu hundred acics ot
land, which is ot the vei y belt quality ; toge
ther with the Hock, and Urinn.jj uieotih. The
buildings are large aud convenient, and fit tor
a Kfntlcman'i feat. The payments will be tnade
easy, on goodlecunty. Fur Inither particulars
enquire ot George Metcalt, Esq. on {tie prefliil
es, ot Sil« Taltwt, iilq. at fmUdelfthia, ot
Samuel Ward and liroiheis, in New York, or
ot the lubfciiber in Kiovidence.
Jabez hawtn.
PhiUd. March g6 mw &«1 ;u
' Ph-Uiielphla, Marctu, J794,
JITST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market Jlreet,
I HE FJUiST VatuMii OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography:
or, A
Geographical, Hiftarical\ and
Commercial Grammarj
Andjfl-ql'ent flute or die k vecfc 1
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
so>ttiin««,
1. The figures, matisus» and distances of.
the pLiii'ts, accoiding.to ,tbj Nuwrouian fyf
teni and the lattft oblei'vauoi>s
а. A general view <jf tlje earth, coafidered
is a plauetj with fiweral ufe)'ijl jjeographical
defiuitioiii aud problems.
3. The grand dtvliions of the globe into
land and water, Continents and ifl^nds.
4. The iituation and extent of empires,
tinj;doms 1 1hit« 1 provinces atfd colonies.
5- Their climates, air, foil, vegetable,
irnductkins, metals, mine rah, natural enri
>fities, seas, rivers, bays,cape;, promontories,
j ud lake ;.
б. The birds and beasts peculiar to each
country.
J. Ot>ferv»ti«v» on tile change; thattewe
lean any where obferrod upon the face at cm.
:ure Cncc the molt eai|v yg.-jods of history.
»
v-
8. The htftory and origjn ofnatiom;
ms of government, relifeien, laws, r
nuw, tajtev naval andmilita.y ftrengtL
. genius, maimers, cuftoras, and ha
l>i t« of tbe J>e«jrle. 7
''^"^'^rning, ambience,
manufactures, and commerce.
11. The chief cities, ftru&ures. ruin?
arttfici*) ' " *'
> ' 2 -I he latitude, bearing,, an <
dift»«ees of place, from Pmfadelphi-i
t To cuhicil are added,
i. A Geographical Ixm*, with the name
. and place s alphabetically arranged.
9. A Table of the Coin, of all uations.ant
; their value in dollars andcfrnts.
g. A Chronologic* i T*«LEof remarkabh
events, froin the creation to the jxwfent time
fy WILLIAM GUTHRIE, E/q.
Tue Aftronoinical Part corrected by
D . KirrENHOuSE.
To which have been added,
The late DtsCovEß&s of Dr. Hersckell,
and other eminent Ast*o»o,\iers.
The KIR.ST AMERICAN ECU HON,
corrected, Improved, and greatly Enlarge^.
The firft volume Conraihs twenty-one Mijii
and Charts, beiides two Aftronoinical Plattfs,
viz.
i . Map of the world. 2. Chart of the wortrf,
?. Europe. 4. Asia. j. Africa. 6. &„ a rh
Amenta. 7. Conk's difcove'ies. 8. Conn
tries rotpid the nor.tb J»ole. 9. Sn-eden,' Den.
mark, and Norway. «o. Seven United P<»-
vi :ces. u Au.'ti ian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. 13, Seat of war
in Ft aiice. 14. France divitiec! intodepait
ments. tj. Switzerland. :6 Italy, Siciiy,
and Sardinia. 17. Spain a:id Portugal.
18 Turkey in Europe a-.d Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 20. Weft-indies. 2). Vermont. 22. Ar
nrilUtrv I'fyere. 23. fiopern can system.
With tlw fecpnd volume, which is i>ow in
the press, will be given the following Maps :
1. Russia in Euiope and Alia.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
. 4. Poland.
j. China.
6. Hindoftan.
; 7' United State*.
8- JS'itift America.
9 Srate o*' N'e-.V IlampflHie.
13. Sfate of Maflachufet ts.
11. State of Connecticut.
*i Slate of Rhode Iflanri.
>3 State <« New-Yoik.
'i State of New-Jerfcy.
1 S- State of Peaiitylfjiiiij.
■o- Nrate of Delaware.
17- fit--e us Marylapd.
'B. Stale of Virginia.
19. State,of Kentucky.
2i3 State'<if Narth-Carollna,
ij. Tenneflee Government.
22. sfirtt of South-Carolina.
2J- state of'<setn-<>is.
TERMS.
1. This work wHI be eompri&d in two vo-
._j, ; — **— 1 — - —■
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (.56 cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the succeeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when fiuifhed, at
the frme price as the firft.
A. The fiibfcription will be railed on the firft
day as June 1794, to fourteen dollars, ex
clwhye of bidding.
S- Shpuld ifiiy copies remain for faie after the
completion of the work, they will 1* fold at
fixtceh dollars, and the price of binding.
6. The mimes of the fubflribers will be pub-
Jifhed as patrons of American literature,
arts, and fcienoes.
It is wholly .unneceflary to expatiate on the
advantage, to American readers, that this edi
tion ppflfffes, over every imported edition of
any system of Geogi aphy extant. The addit
( tion of maps of eh'. I'everal state-, procured a
a very great expense, and ftom the best ma
teriaJs that are attainable, speaks such full
chivj CI ion on this fubjea, tljat it would be
difrefpeft ro the reader's understanding to
fiippafc it requ'rfite to entcr lnto a detail of
Vguuients to prove its superiority. In 110
fiSnilai \»»rk have such maps beenever intro
duced.
The emendations and additions wHieh are
in this|Work v are innumerable,and occua
in eirery page. The public are referred to
the preface for a flight fltetch of a few of
t(i2nj.
publilher takes the prafint opportu
"ity of returning his m ill fiocere thanks to
thole refpr&able characters who have favored
him with doouinents for improving the maps
of rtsveral of tlie ftatts. He requests a conti
usance of thsir kindn»ft; .itodliopeiehat such
p*bfic spirited citizens, as are possessed of li
• m(ilai- documents, will favor him (.with their
a (finance in perfecting his undertaking.
Ths extraordinary encouiage'ment with
which he ha« been favored, (fas excited,
in his breast the warmest (entitneati of grati
tude—sentiments which time will'not efface.
He pledges himfelf to the citizens of the
Uhhe<4 Stater, to fpwe neither nor ex
-pe»n;'e to render the prefeiited tioa.otGuihrie's
Giusraphy improved, deferviiWof their pa
trpnagc. f . waftf
CCS" This Gazette Jballbe enijrgcd, at k
receives encouragement—The Subfrriptioa
tatreafes daily—Advertising Favor/ are
/elicited-?—Thefe. eon/Utute an ejfential Item
in Jirrtinijhing the Debit fide of the Atcount.
PHILADELPHIA t
PaiNTSD by JOHN 3TENNO, No 4,
• 1 South Fouith^Strcet.