of tfje Ifltttffi)
EVE
[No. 47 of Vol. V.]
To be het on Freight or Charter,
or for Sale,
The Ship
mi& HERcu LE s?
Samuel Chauncy^hlader,
i.x.»tc.ea to be ready in a few days to rcceive
a Carg;o on board, at Hampton Roari, in Virginia ;
is an American bottom, burthen 500 tons, picrccd
tor 20 guns, quite new and wtll fitted.
Apply to
WHARTON & LEWIS,
Philadelphia, February 4, 1794
JUST PUBLISHED,
M. Carey, No. 118, High-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the world.
IS little book is writTen in a stile altogether
X novel, arid is adapted to all capacities, as
well ;>i to all claflVs of people, merchants, me
chanics ?nd farmers. Such a reputation lias this
work acquired, that it has pafled thto three im
pfeflians in the eastern dates,' and many houle
holders deem it so ufeful 35 to purchase ( a copy
loi every adult in theii families.- Price 2s.
February 4. dtt
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public, That from the encouragement
he has received, from several refpe&able Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his fcivices to
all Ihe fa Gentlemen, who can p}ace confidence
in him ; and h* aflures'thofe M'ho employ him,
thai ih< lr confidence shall not be mifplaccd
but it (hall be his constant endeavor, to pay the
ftri£V ft attention to their best interest, in all ne
gotiations whatever. He has the Chamber,
in State-Street, over Mr. David Townfcnd, Watch
Make I's Shop. Where PUBLIC SECURI-
TlhS, ot all kinds, are bought and fold; and
when- Coin million Bunuels of all kinds, will be
t»Hnf>fteti on «eafonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be constantly exposed lor sale, on
commission.
%* Ca(h paid for Salem, Providencc, and
Porifmoinh BILLS.
N. B. If any Gent!rman in Philadelphia, or
any Bujinefs to tranjafl at BoJl»n y
in Paper Negociations, he xvill be happy t« be em
ployed on commijjion.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. RICE, No. 50, Marlcet-ftreet,
alio, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Market-fteeet,
f Price, bound, 6/6 2 J
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story.
TO WHICH IS ADDED,
The Indian Cottage.
From the French of M. de St, Pierre.
*' THK above Storits have been lately pub
lilhed, amongst the works of a very different
nature, by M. de St. Pierre, who resided !w the
country which it deferibes, and was well ac
quainted with the principal facts. Its orna
ments are the Landscape— the Climate—and
the natural history of the Torrid Zone, obser
ved with the eye of Taste, and delineated with
the eye of Phtlofophical knowledge. It is a
Pa flora I, of which the fable and the machine
ry may be {aid to be equally real. To these are
added, the pure vein of Moral Inflru£lion, and
the Sublime Ideas of M. de St. Pierre."
S^t
Feb. 1
War Department.
January 30th 1794.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military invalids of the United State.s,that the
sums to which they are entitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on the sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the CommiiTioncrs of the Loans
within the dates refpe&tvcly, under the ulual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
mull be accompanicd with legal evidence of
their refpf&ive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pen (ion they may claim.
By command of the Prcfid< nt
of the United S'ate.*,
H. KNOX,
Secretary of War.
(£3* The printers in the refpedive states are
Tcqucficd topublifh the above >n their newfpa
pcra for the lpace of two monihc.
January 30.
N I N G AD V E
Wednesday, February 5, 1794
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible fituatioo, —also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acre l ? of land and meadow, the
Honfe is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
°f the city, in size or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer,
January 23.
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern and
of the Merchant's Cofjee-Houfe if this
City :—
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippen-Street, be
tween Third_ and Fourth-Street*, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly improved, and is now
very commodious ; where he has lurnifhed him
felf with the best of LIQUORS, and will fur
nifh a TABLE for Parties, with the best provi
sions the Markets afford, at any hour, 011 the
Ihorteft notice. From his long experience in
this line of business, he flatters himfelf he Ihall
be able to give fattsfaftion to all who may plcal'e
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29, 1794.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths & Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortment of
SILVER fcf PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY £jf fne CUTLERY,
Which they will dispose of on the molt rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and lilver
way, done as usual.
December 24.
This day is publijhed,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 1 1 8, Ma R KET-ST R F. ET,
( Price a quarter dollar)
A short account of ALGIERS,
Containing a description otthe climate of that
country — of the manners and customs of the in
habitants, and of their several wars against Spain,
France, England, Holland, Venice, and other
powers of Europe, from the usurpation of Bar
baroffa and the invasion of the Emperor Charles
V. to the present time; with a eoncife view of
the origin of »he ruptuie between ALGIERS
dtf.
Jan. 9.
Insurance Company.
Philadelphia, January 6, 5 794-
NOTICE is hereby given to the members
of the Insurance Company of North-
America, that the Diredlors have declared a
dividend (for the last lix months) of six per
Cent, on the amount of the firit and second
inllalmcnts ; and of one per cent per month
on the sums paid in anticipation of the third
instalment, calculating from the firft day of
the mdnth following that, in xvhich those pay
ments were made. The dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders, or their representatives,
at the company's office, Nq. 119 south Front
ftrect, at any time after the 13th instant.
By order of the Directors.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Secretary.
Jan. 9. w&f.ini.
Excellent CLARET,
In bogheads and in cases of 50 bottles cach.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipea, hogsheads and quarter caflcs,
t FOR SALE BY
No. in, South Front»itrect.
dtf
Jan. 2, 1794
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, W«ll-ftreet, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending 10 confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b(gs leave to of
ftr his fervicesto his friends and others, in the
line ol a Stock Broker. Those who may pleaTe
to favor htm with their business, may dcp>nd
upon having it tranfa&ed wi;h the utraoft fide
lity and drfpatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United State?, will be ftri6Ry
attended to. LEONARD BLbLCKER.
ctem
AND
m&th—tf
mw&ftf
JOHN VAUGHAN,
From the United States Chronicle.
Mr. Wheeler,
Please to insert the following observations
in the Chronicle, and oblige the friends
of justice and humanity.
IT appears by information from Suri
nam, that the brigantine Nancy, of this
port, commanded by Joseph B. Cook, had
arrived at that place, with a cargo of
/laves from the coast of Africa ; and that
during the pairage, they made an attempt
to recover that liberty with which they
were endowed by the common Parent of
the Universe, and of which they could
not have been deprived without the molt
outrageous violation of every principle of
Religion, Jullice, and Humility ; but in
consequence of this laudable attempt to as
sert their natural and unalienable right,
several of their number were destroyed by
the Captain and crew of tire brig. It may
perhaps be alledged, in extenuation of the
crime, that the white people only a£ed in
felf-defence but the reply is obvious.
Who were the aggrefTors ? Who forced
the wretched Africans from their native
country—from all the tender and endear
ing attachments of husband, parent and
child ? Who crowded them into the hold
of the Vefiel, or as Mr. Wilberforce em
phatically stiles it—" The floating Jhop for
the sale of human flejh." who by such base
and barbarous means, provoked them to
a natural and jull rcfiftance.
Should we condemn a number of Ame
cans for rising on the crew of an Alge
rine cruizer ? Should we not rather ap
plaud and wiffi them success. May not
the barbarians of Algiers retort on our
African slave traders, the severe rebuke of
an infpiredapoftle, "Thou that fayeft a
man fliould not steal, dost thou steal ?"■—
Can they who are concerned in the detes
table slave trade, and are thus accessory
to theimurder, and the misery of so ma
ny of their fello* creatures, can they en
joy the profits resulting from the ' blood
stained traffic! Can they reflect on the
tears, the groans, and the agony of the
wretches whom they have reduced ro such
complicated fufferings, and not feel their
fouls harrowed with the most painful re
morse ; but by whatever arts they may
now sooth orfupprefs the upbraidings of
conscience, the time is afluredly approach
rng when they will forrowfully realize
this sacred declaration, " Verily there is a
GOD who judgeth in the earth, who
will render to every man according to his
works ;" and as He hath been pleased to
ordain civil government " for a terror to
evil doers," surely it is incumbent on the
ftrongarm of the National Legiflatureto
exert itfelf in the prevention of Crimes
more abhorrent than those which the In
dians on our frontiers frequently perpe
tratd on the defencelefs inhabitants
those savages with refpeft to Divine rev
elation " fit in darkness," while we are
indulged with the meridian splendor of
gospel light ; we boast the most accurate
knowledge of the rights of man, and ex
ult in having been the fuccefsful defend
ers of those rights ; —they in many in
stances only avenge the wrongs they have
fuffered, while our Slave-Traders fend
to a distant country, seize on the inno
cent and unoffending natives, and com
pel them to a state of the most cruel
slavery—but this abominable traffic in
our own species is not only repugnant to
the di&ates of that Revelation which in
forms us, that " GOD hath made of one
blood all nations" but the feelings of hu
manity are shocked at the fad recital of
the attrocious crimes which are insepa
rably ccmnefted with the odious practice ;
and philosophy, by the elegant pen of a
Raynal, reprobates it in language too
pointed to be omitted in this animad
version. " The Highwayman (fays the
" Abbe) attacks you, and takes your mo
ney, the Slave-Trader carries olf even
your person the one invades the
rights of society—the other those of
nature; —this ceitainly it the truth, and
RTI S E
[Whole No. 505, j
if there exiiled a religion which authori
zed only by its iilence such horrors ; it it
did not. continually denounce vengcance
againfi the authors, and the instruments
of this tyranny —if fucb a religion exit
ed, the minister and the altar ought to Lc
crushed in one common ruin."
Il it should be thought that the fevcri
ty of censure contained in this publica
tion requires an apology, the writer would
borrow one from Mr. Pitt's admirable
speech in the British House of Commons
—after describing, in terms of the most
pathetic eloquence, the matchless horrors
of this nefarious trade—he adds—" I
know, Sir, 1 slate this fubjeft with
warmth ! I feel it is impofiiblc for me
not to do so—or, if it were I should c?c
teft myfelf for the exercise of moderation.
I cannot without fufiering every feeling,
and every pafiiori that ought to rife in the
Cause of Humanity, to deep within me,
speak coolly upon such* a fubjeft. There
is no excuse for vs, feeing this infernal
traffic as we do, it is the very death of
Justice to utter a fyliable in support of
it."
In committee of the 'whole on Air, Madison's
Mr. Giles commenced his remarks by
observing that if an apology had been
deemed neceflarv from the nature of the
fubjeft, and the vote he proposed to give
upon it, it was rendered more so from the
eloquence displayed by the gentleman who
had just preceded him. (Mr. Dexter of
Maflachufetis.) The gentleman ■. s done
ample justice to one fide of the fubjeft,
and he was sensible the opposite fide in
his hands, would fuffer by the companion.
He proposed under his present impres
sions to vote for the general proportion,
and such of the resolutions in detail as
would can y the general principle into full
efFeft.
These measures contemplate eonfidera
ble innovations in the existing (late of the
commerce of the United States. He had
anticipated the 'gentleman last up, in the
refle&ion that extensive innovations into
existing fyftems,ought to be ad6pted with
caution. Calculations upan which they
are founded, (hould be adjusted to the
magnitude of the ejcpechd objedl ; and
the probable efficacy of the means propos
ed to be used for its attainment.
Hence he readily admitted, that flrong
reasons in favor of the proposed rfiea
fures ought to be expected before their
adoption; and any possible hazard of
their results, ought to be amply cornpen
fated for the importance of the end to
be attained.
He observed there was another circum
stance which juftilied an apology. The
mercantile interest of the United States
will be the moll immediately affeifled in
their occupations by the proposed mea
sures and the gentlemen of this bouse
from this scene of business, fcem moll to
doubt their expediency.
We have been told, with emphasis, tjf
the intelligence arid patriotism of the mer
chants of America, and it is admitted that
the truth has not been exceeded. The
merchants deserve great crecit for their
conduit since the exiftencc of the prefect
government ; and their opinions upon this
iubjeft ought to produce additional cau
tion.
It Ihould be remarked, however, that
merchants, like all other descriptions of
men, are influenced in some degree 'oy ex
isting connexions, formed habits, m l con
sequent prejudices—they recoil from ..iv
poflible interruption in the usual court:
of theu - bufinefts.
R.
HUMANITAS.
CONGRESS
House of Representatives.
January 23
resolutions.They magnify every hazard aiifing
from a change in the direition of their
employment, into certain and politive
lets. Although, therefore, their opinions
ought to have weight and pioduce cau
tion ; yet, they ought no" to command a
decision from others unattended with con
viction. For if those of the committee,
not of this description, be compelled to
decide upon the present queition, f.om
extraneous mercantile indications, with
out requiting conviction# from their rea
sonings ; there are indications t>f the mer
cantile scene 011 the other fide the Atlan
tic, operating in commendation of the
proportions, with as much force, as those
on this fide the atlantic, in oppolition to
them. It is remarkable that this whole
description of men are actively opposed
to the p iflage of the proposed measures :
Their sensations upon this fubjeii have
been evidenced by their anxious attendance
upon the progress of the buiincfs. If
the proportions should eventuate in a na
tional commercial conflict, the inference
in general might be made, that what it
is their intereit to prevent it is our interell
to *».?<?. The British court are equally
fenGtive upon this subject. They have
at several periods manififtcd their alarms.
It may be concluded that thele sensations
hive arisen from the opinion, that the ef
fects of the proportions will be such as
are calculated upon by the favorers of
them. He was unwilling, however, to
hazard a vote upon any extraneou9 eir
cumftances and should look into the me
rits of the queflion.
He felt that some apology was due to
the state and diftriit whofc immediate re
presentative he was. Virginia is an ex
porting ilate, without vessels, and with
out a mercantile capital, equal to the
employment afforded to capital. The
town of Petersburg exports much in va
lue and much in bulk; the surrounding
country grows liiefe articles •, vessels and
capital are wanting for the exportation of
this produce. Hence the proposed mea
sures will be particularly felt for some
time by this part of the United States.
He relied however With confidence on
the virtue and patriotism of the people,
and fhoulJ ast from a belief,, that they
would even rejoice in a temporary incon
venience with a view to pcrmamcnt good;
and that their joy would not be diminish
ed by the recolle£tion, that the tempora
ry ill which they may sustain, would pro
duce a temporary advantage to their eas
tern brethren, without excluding them
from a full participation in the permanent
good to be expedted.
He remarked, that he felt the more
diffidence upon this fubjeft: since he
frankly acknowledged, that he did not
po.Tefs an accurate knowledge of the de
tails of commerce, and (lid not propose to
make any material addition to the Hock
of mercantile information, now before the
committee. He proposed to use the fails
furnilhcd by other gentlemen, and acknow
ledged an obligation, for the information
they contain. He proposed to consider
the fubjeft, in the various shapes it had
a (Turned since the commencement of the
discussion ; and to state the results, which
had been formed, in his own mind.—ln
making the attempt, general principles
will be resorted to, and minute arithmetical
calculations as much as possible, avoided.
The gentleman, who firft favored the
committee with his remarks (Mr. Smith
of S. C.) admonilhed them of the propri
ety of separating political, from commer
cial confideration# in the course of discus
sion. If this rule had been rigidly enforc
ed, he remarked that perhaps, three fourths
of the impressions made upon his mind fa
vorable to the propositions, wculd have
been lopped off without consideration. He
could not conceive, for what cause, the
political (hould be separated from the com
mercial part of the fubjedt. The propo
sitions may eventuate in a change in the
direction of the business of one whole oc
cupation in society—a change of the dis
position of the nation, in so important a
point, mull have a very interesting politi
cal afpeft, as it relates to government
internally : the present fubjeft exhibits an
important political feature, as it relates to
the external connections of the govern
ment, with foreign nations. If therefore,
it should be observed as a rule, to pass up
on this fubjeft, by excluding from view,
all the political considerations connected
with it, the rule woirfd include an effen
tijl omission of duty. The gentleman
himfelf, however, in the next sentence,
furnifhed an example of the violation of
the precept he had just prcfcribed, by
calling the attention of the contmittee to
the political fituatiofi of the United States,
at this dtlicate crisis, and urging this cir
cumtlance, as one reason againlt the adop
tion of the proportions. The gentleman
then proceeded to present the fubjeft in
two points of view. The one, the rela
tive conduct of Franyc, and Great-Bri
tain, towards the United States: the
other, the conduit of Great-Britain to
wards the United States, comparatively
with other foreign nations. To present
the fubjeft in the firft point of view, the
gentleman furnirtied an anonymous table,
calculated to a date anterior to the com
mencement of the late revolution in France.
As the only history of this table, with
which the committee have been favored,
was, that it was the compilation of a gen
tleman of considerable mercantile informa
tion, it is presumed the gentleman will
not be surprised, if it should be deemed to
be of doubtful authority ; the rather as it
was the ground of a severe and unmerited
crimination of the gentleman, whose re
port is now under consideration, and who,
it is believed, would not fufferin a compa
rison, in point of intelligence, accuracy,
or pa;riotifm, either with the laborious
compiler of the table, or with the gentle
man, who has been judiciously fele&ed,
for its interpreter.
He remarked, that the table bore upon
the face of it, evident marks of partiality,
and inflead of having them effaced, they
were aggravated by the commentator.
One irrefiftable evidence of the partia
lity of the table confide, in aflcrting that
American flour is free, to the British Weft
Indies, and'excluding from view, the abfo
lutc monopoly of the carriage, and the
monopoly of contrasts for returns.
It is presumed that the gentleman at
lead cannot except to this criticism on
the table, because one of his chief cen
sures against the gentleman whose report
is before the committee, which was even
carried so far as to infer improper motives,
arose from a suggested omifiion in the re
port, which will be found upon examina
tion to be wholly immaterial. An evi
dent partiality is cbfervable in the inter
preter of the table in an earnest attempt
to eftabliih this principle—That prohibi
tory duties on flour in Great-Britain af
forded an equal encouragement of the ar
ticle by commercial regulations, with a
free importation into France, or at least
with a duty admitted by the gentleman to
be too trifling to be counted. The com
mercial arrangements of France in this
particular, leave this article upon the true
ground of competition in the growth of
the article—this ground of competition
is destroyed in Great-Britain by commer
cial rellriaionti. In the one cafe, compe
tition in the market is all that could be
reasonably expe&ed, and that is granted—
in the other cafe competition would be
alike desirable, anil there it is provifion
arily excluded.
Another evidence of the partiality of
the interpreter of the table consists in the
zealous attempt to establish it as a princi
ple, that is. 3d. sterling duty upon to
bacco per lb. is no discouragement to the
growth of that article this idea was
grounded upon the suggestion, that the
consumption is not thereby lessened, no
substitute being afforded for it in Great Bri
tain—Tobacco does not average to the ex
porter 2 pence sterling per pound: The
duty is at lead seven times as great as the
prime cost of the article ; —the great con
sumption of this article is by the poorer
order of the people—the Hate of society
is fuck in Britain at present, that hard la-,
bor during a whole year will hardly afford
a scanty fubfiftance to the laborer, hence
necessity compels this description of per
sons to economize in the use of the article,
or to avoid the use of it altogother—of
course the consumption is materially les
sened, and the growth of the article is dis
couraged from the operation of the duty.
The gentleman founded his fierce attack
againll the gentleman whose report is now
uuder consideration, for omitting to insert
in his report, that there was a higher du
ty imposed by Great Britain upon all o
ther foreign tobacco than that of the U
nited States, and hence infeiTed a friendly
disposition from Great Britain to the U
nited States. The insertion of the fact
would have added to the bulk of the re
port, but could convey no additional ufe
ful information.
It is known that the high duties impos
ed upon all foreign tobaccoes, took its rife
during the colonial exittence of these dates;
it is known that it has not been altered
since their independence ; it is known that
the tobaccoes of the United States are
furnilhed at so much cheaper rates, than
those of any other country, that there
would be no danger of competition if the
duties in Britain were the fame on each.
It is likewise known that the United
States furnilhed a fufficient, a redundant
fupplyforthe consumption of all Europe';
hence Great Britain has not thought pro
per lince the revolution to destroy this re
list of colonial regulations, not because
(he wilhed to favor lis, but because (he
would not theriby have benefited herfelf;
hence too, the omillion of this information
could not be material, and the insertion of
it would only liave served to contradict
the inference endeavored to be established,
of the favorable disposition of Great Bri
tain towards the United States.
There is one manifeft impropriety in
confining our enquiries to the date pre
ferred by the gentleman for this table: it
would involve the absurd consequence of
adjulling our laws to a retrofpeftive, in
stead of a progreflive state of things. It
would be as ridiculous as an attempt by
law to prefcribc rules for the proper de
portment of the ghosts of our forefathers.
It is to be hoped that the date could not
have been fixed upon from a wi(h that the
United States (hould indirectly furnifh a
countenance for the restoration of despot
ism ; and it was matter of regret that the
gentleman (hould openly avow a distrust of
the permanency of the French revolution
as one motive for the conduct.
Mr. G. remarked, that he hoped the
permanency of the revolution of France
was as much greater than the permanency
of the ancient despotism of France—as the
great fabric of nature, than the petty plas
tic productions of art.
Here Mr. S. rose to explain—he said
he had pursued a principle, adopted by
Mr. Jefferfon in his report : he read a
paflage from the report, from which it
appeared, that the report had been calcu
lated to the summer of 1792.
Mr. G. replied, that the principle was
just reversed, the one had reference to a
state of things posterior to the revolution;
the other, anterior to the commencement
of it during the existence of the ancient
despotism.
If the table were to have any influence,
it mull arise from stating, the real relative
dispositions of France, and Great Britain
towards the United Stales ; but if the e
poch to which it relates is to govern, it
will exclude some of the strongest testimo
nies of the inimical temper of Great Bri
tain,and of the friendly temper of France.
Are these confideraticns to have less
weight, or to be wholly excluded from
the view, because they are more recent ?
Is it because we are now laboring under
these aggreflions, and from some late dis
patches likely to continue so, that a reme
dy is to be with-held ? He thought not ;
and therefore (hould proceed to (late some
of the evidences of the dispositions of the
two nations, displayed since the epoch al
luded to.
Great Britain has fubje&ed our vefTels
upon the high sea, to seizure and search,
and exempted those of Sweden and Den
mark. He wiihed to press this fadl, up
on the gentleman who preceded him, be
cause he had denied that Great Britain,
had made any discriminations amongst fo
reign nations, injurious to the United
States.
Great Britain has invaded our velfels
on the high seas, and refufed them the
protection of French property—This is
an acknowledged violation of the laws of
nations ; at lead of the last convention of
nations upon the fuhjeft.
Great Britain has prevented our veflels
from conveying to our friend and ally,
goods not contiaband,and compelled then*
to make sales to btrfelf, or some of her al
lies.
Great Britain has compelled our vefiels
to deviate their courses, and to their great
hazard and loss, detained them for trial
upon frivolous pretences.
Our vefTels have been fubjefted in her
courts, to the danger of subornation ; to
precarious and uncertain testimony.
Great Britain has been the inftrumrnt
of letting loose the pirates of the Barbary
slates, upon our commerce. This fact
however doubted upon the firft report, is
placed beyond doubt, by the late conduct
of Portugal, towards our vessels in her
ports.
Are these fa&s denied ? If not, dft
they not operate directly and fpecifically
upon our commerce. Is it not astonish
ing, after all these fadts are known, and
often repeated, that gentlemen should be
heard to enquire, what injuries have we
received from Great Brit;l:n ? And to in
fer that the United State i are equally fa
voured with othef nations. In addition
to these things, Great Britain has observ
ed the most rigid silence upon the fubjeft
of friendly commercial arrangements. —
The gentleman who preceded him,doubt
ed her indilpo'fition for a treaty ; silence
is a refufal to ast ; a refufil to ast is a
denial. The late dispatches do not fiir
nifh the most distant hope, of a change of
disposition in this refpeft.
France on the other hand has o ITered a
renewal of the existing commercial treaty
upon the moll liberal policy.
(To be continued.)
LEGISLATURE of NEW-YORK.
HOUSE oj ASSEMBLY.
SatmJay, J.in. 18, 1794.
A resolution of the houle, " That in
all suits in which this Hate is a parry, it i»
the duty of the attorney-general, ex of.
ficio, to defend the rights and interelt of
this state," —paflcd in consequence of a
letter fiom the attorney-general, request
ing inlltudtions telative to the suit
brought against this Hate, in ti»e Su
preme Federal Court, by Eleazcr Os
wald—having been non-concurred by the
Senate ; the following resolution trans
mitted by the Twnate foi concurrence,
was taken up, and is in the words fol
lowing—" Resolved, if the hem. the
AfTembly concur, therein, that the at
torney-general appear for this state, in
the Supreme Court of the United States,
to the iuit brought by Eleazer Oswald,
admiftrator of the goods, chatties and
credits of John Holt, deceased, and that
he make the belt defence therein the na
ture of the cafe will admit."—And af
ter some time spent thereon, the houle
divided on the question for concurrence,
ayes 1 2—noes 44.
The house adopted the following re
solution—
" Resolved, as the sense of this house,
that it is e duty of the attorney-gene
lal, ex officio, in all controvetfies in
which this ftara is, or may be a party to
appear and defend the inteteft of this
state."
Friday, Jan. 24, 1794.
Mr. Havens froin the committee ap
pointed on the part of this house—to
meet a committee appointed on the pait
of the Senate, to take into consideration
that part of the Governor's Speech,
which relates to the communications re
ceived from the Hates of Maflachufetts
and Virginia, relative to the suability of
a state, and, also relative to a suit brought
against this state : Reported, That the
committee had met the committee ap
pointed on the part of the Senate, and
that they had concurred in'a resolution
which he was direSed to report to this
house.—He read the resolution in his
place and" delivered the fame in at the
table, where it was again read, and is in
the words following, viz. Resolved, That
the power of compelling a state to be made
defendant in any couit of the United
States, at the suit of an individual or in
dividuals is in the opinion of thi? Legis
lature unneceflary and inexpedient—and
in its exercise may be dangerous to the
peace —the fafety and independence of
the several states. Therefore resolved,
that the senators representing this state
in the Senate_of the United States, be
and they are hereby inftrti&ed, and the
Representatives requested to adopt the
mod speedy and effeflual raeaftircs in
their power to obtain such amendments
in the Constitution of the United States,
as will remove any clause op article of
the said Constitution, which can be con
strued to imply or juftify a decision that
a state is compelable to anfiver to any
suit by an individual or individuals in a
ny court of the United States—and the
Governor is heteby requtfted to com
municate the foregoing resolution to the
fuprenie executive of the several states,
to be f.ibmitted to their refpeftive legis
latures.
Ordered, That the said resolution be
committed, to a committee of the whole
house,
NEW-YORK, Feb. 3.
We hear from Albany, that th<- Ne
gro man and Wenches, who weie to
have been executed there on Friday the
14th inft. have beep granted a iefpite for
fix weeks.FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONTENTION.
Sitting of the gth day of the 3d decadt ,of
the 2 d year of the Republic.
The Miniller at War sent the follow
ing letter from General Doppet:
" On our arrival, our firlt care was the
appointment of a military tribunal or
commission ; and several chiefs have been
fliot. You write to me to take proper
precautions to prevent the rebels from
making their escape. They are all
cither destroyed or imprisoned : This ope
ration has wonderfully succeeded.
(S'gned)
" DOPPET."
The Citizens and Citifles of Tartas,
in the Department of Landes, have sent
to the adminillration of that department,
to be diftribnted to their brethren in arms
on the frontiers of the Pyrennees—{hirts,
spatterdashes, fume linen, 33 pairs of
ftoekings, some handkerchiefs, and 28
pail's of (hoes. Honorable mention.
Sevtsal popular societies have written
to the Convention, congratulating them
on their decree tvhith tats the price on
all commodities of firft neceflity, and in
viting them to continue at their pcft.
The popular society of Provenee, re
turn their thanks to the Mountain, for
having procured them an entire Liberty;
they express their gratitude to the brave
Parisians who have destroyed the triple
aristocracy of the rich, nobles, and priests.
The commune of Graulhet sent to the
National Convention a resolution which
they took, by which they look upon the
Mountain as the Saviour of Liberty and
£ quality.
UNITED STATES.
BOSTON, Jan. 27."
Authentic news from Franre.
Extradl of two letters from a gentleman
of undoubted veracity, vvhofe informa
tion may be depended upon, now in
France, to his friend in this Town,
dated
Paris, 03. 2t>, 1793
" The (late of France is much altered
within a few weeks for the better. Liber
ty mud triumph, and I thank God there
is such a nation as the French to defend
her cause—some di ft relies mull happen—-
some wrongs mull be committed ; —but
the principle is eternal, and mull finally
prevail."
" I cannot help fending you this, in
hopes it will reach you by the fame velTel
that I wrote my last. The affairs of France
are much altered within a few days, and
every appearance juihfies the moll san
guine expectations in favour of their final
success. Nothing could have placed them
on so good a footing as the total destruc
tion of all their internal enemies, or ra
ther civil wars : but they have not only
done that, but appear in a fair way to re
pel all the combined armies. They have
been beaten upon the Rhine, a complete
surprise was effe&ed; but in every other
part they have the advantage, should Tou
lon be re-taken which is quite probable,
(as thi French have driven the Spaniards
English quite into the town) 1 think
the dance will be up. I cannot but be
lieve, that in cafe France falls, America
will follow."
It is presumed fays a correfpondcnt,
that the two branches of the Legislature
will be exceeding careful about answering
the speech of the Lieutenant-Governor,
least they should give offence —this Gentle
man was for many years a member of the
Senate, and was always of opinion that
it was improper for Speeches to be made
from the Chair, and he uniformly and
pointedly opposed answering them ; this
circumstance is well known—how-then is
it to be accounted for, that the more we
aim at the principles of " Liberty and
Equality," the ftrongerwe feel attach
ed to MONARCHICAL FORMS
AND CEREMONIES.
We are told that the New Theatre will
be open on the 3d of February.
BALTIMORE, Jan. 31.
From Martinieo, Dec. 17th.
We learn, that on the 12th Dec. a
Britilh squadron of 8 fail of the line, and
frigates and transports to the number of 50
fail arrived at Barbadoes. That General
Rochambeau has but a fma'.i regular force
of whites and artillery, but had seven
thousand armed mulattoes and i.- jrocs, 111
whom he inltilled the idea, 11 ■. (hould
the British conquer Maitinico, they would
be fold to slavery. It is therefore expec
ted that they will light witli great brav
ery.
The preservation of the m. arts of know
ledge, among the /cur/? ranks, is of more
importance to the Public, than all the
PROPERTY of all the RICH MEN
in the COUNTRY. It is even of more
consequence to the rich themselves, and
to their prjhrity. The only question is,
Whether it is a public emolument ? And
if it is, the rich ought undoubtedly to
contribute in the fame pi oportion as to all
other public burdens, i. e. in proportion
to their wealth which is secured by pub
lic expences. But none of the means of
information are more sacred, or have been
cheri(hed with more tenderness and cart,
by the" settlers of America, than the
PRESS. Care has been taken that the
Art of Printing (hould be encouraged,
and that it (hould lie easy and cheap, and
fafe for any person to communicata his
thoughts to the public.
For the Gazette of the United States,
COMMERCE.
From calm, commercial sage debates,
Held in th' A {Terribly of the States,
We find our commerce underftpod—
By merchants ? No—by men of wood—
Men who from inland regions came—
Where commerce scarce is known byname!
Alas—what ignorance prevails,
Where commerce fpreadsher broadest fails!
Ye hardy sons of northern climes,
Howchar.g'd from gooioldfi/hion'</times;
Once to your Interest, Heady, true,
That Interest ye no more pursue :
But fend to patch your navigation,
The greatell botchers in the nation—
When Patriots from the old dominion,
Quite twilled round from old opinion,
With Resolutions ready made,
To help your artists and your trade,
To raise your commerce, sadly smitten,
By the haughty power of Britain—
To keep vour money in your hands,
To purchase boundless trails of lands;
To pay old debts—aye this is true,
So long to Brxtifh merchants due—
To keep y our wives and ekeyouv daughters,
From buying baubles, gauze and garters,
Or which is better—bid defiance,
To Europe's Despots in alliance ;
And brave the storms which rage afar,
By bringing home the sweets of War—
Of this you cannot fee the Glory,
But turn to ridicule, the story—
Nor patriots from the Allegany,
(Sans doute as candid too as any )
Nor all the powers of eloquence,
Can force you to be men of sense ;
Nor make you cease to apprehend, ~j
That all these projefls really tend, >
To bring our commerce to an end. J
" oSober 25
PHILADELPHIA,
Extradt of a letter from the Captain of
one of the American vefTels to his owner
in this city, dated Bourdeaux, 4th No
vember, 1793.
" We have been loaded since the 4th
Sept. failed on our voyage, (bound to
Philad.) but were ftdpped at the mouth
of the river by a guard (hip, and ordered up
to Paulack, where we were obliged to lay
until the 18th October; then all the load
ed (hips were forced back to Bourdeairx,
where we now lay, and cannot tell when
we (hall be permitted to depart."
It can no longer be a doubt, fays a
correspondent, that the tendency of certain
measures is to (hake the public credit of
this country to the foundation—to reduce
the value of our exports more than one
have—by destroying all competition in
our market for the produce of our coun
try —to dimimjh., in lieu of encreajing our
commerce —to deprive us of what every
other nation has always considered as an
advantage—our neutrality ; to arrest our
progress in the Scale of Nations, and to
blast all cur profpe&s of happiness under
the auspices of peace, freedom, and a
government of laws—and to plunge us in
to all the horrors of foreign, if not domes
tic war.
If any one can doubt x>f the foregoing,
EX T K
FEBRUARY 5.
let him read, let him hear those remarks,
which denounce as enemies to their coun-
try, all the enemies of war, all the friends
of peace, all thole who, ur.liie John Hull,
would think before they run their head in
to the tire—may we be preserved from an
cient or modern European politics—Nature
has placed this happy country at a goodly
dittance from them—may we be so wife as
to lee, think and ast for ourselves—this
will (hew that we are in fa 3, and that we
deserve to be independent.
Egbert Bknson, Esq. is appointed
one of the Judges of the Supreme Court
of the state of New-York.
At an election held on Monday last, the
following gentlemen were chosen Di
rectors of the Bank of Pennsylvania, for
the ensuing year, viz.
John Barclay, Samuel Howell, Charles
Pettit, Philip Nicklin, William Sanfom,
Robert Ralltor., William Montgomery,
John Rofs, John Leamy, Godfrey Haga,
James Crawford, Jdhn Fry, George Pen
nock, Matthew Eawler, S. Forde, P. J.
Norris, J. Wilcocks, J. A(h, J. Vanux
em, S. M. Fox, W. Miller, K. Whar
ton, C. Biddle, J. Morgan, J. Swan
wick.
Mr. Fenno,
As the following contains as cogcst argu
ments for the United States going to
War with all the world, as any I have
heard of, you will please to republifh it.
FROM THE BOSTON GAZETTE.
Mejfrs. Edes iff Son,
HAD the United States of America
discovered their Jlrengtb and prowess, by
breaking off all commercial connection
with Great-Britain and her Colonies,
when flie declared war against our allies
the French ; had we even declared war
againjl her, we should have shown to the
world that we deserve to be ranked among
the nations of the earth, and we should
not have been impeached with the fin of
ingratitude. Belipve me, my country
men, that our character as a nation, his
fuffered more by the pufdlanimity with
which we have borne the insults and in
dignities from thd creatures of Great-Bri
tain on the high seas, and from the crea
tures of that creature residing among us,
to our injury and ruin, than if we had dis
covered a boldness and freedom of spirit to
(land by those who once saved us from de
ftruftion. Believe me, that the powers
of Europe will continue their opinion of
us as an ignorant, timid and a stupid peo
ple ; nay, from our conduct towards our
only friend, they will have cause to difpuie
our bravery. But I hope in God the
time is near at hand, when our enemies
the Britijh will be again convinced of our
understanding, integrity, refuurres and
COURAGE. The PEOPLE at this mo
ment have a good will to {how their cou
rage, notwithstanding they are told by de
famcrs of Liberty, that we have no resour
ces, and are in no condition for war. But
such, and such only, you will find are in
the Funding who lurk and Jhulh in
an Infvrance-Ojjice —or such as afifume the
character of a rich Priest, the fly one of a
Bank Scrivener, or the dirty, infamous,
abandoned ope of an Informer, who are
all the creatures of that system of tyranny
—the FUNDING SYSTEM.
From the General Aavertifer.
A correspondent thinks this the time
to distinguish the patriot from the enemy
of his country, to diiiinguifh between the
man who has private, and the one who has
public good for his object. That man
who seeks to cast the United States at the
feet of Great Britain is any'thing hut a
patriot, is any thing but a republican ; —
and he whocan fee no injuries that the U
nited States have fuftained v from Great
Britain, he who is unconfeious of the
wrongs which have been done us by that
nation,who can fee nothing but a conduct
which can be juflified or at lead extenuated
is that man. If to have a public debt is
to produce the blessing of the influence
and injlrumentality of Britiih policy, to
little purpose has America contended ; to
little purpose have her patriots dyed the
foil with their blood. Where a public
debt can enter into competition with the
general interest and rights of a nation# it
certainly cannot be denied that that na
tion and her creditors have separate and
diffinft interests, and that the preponde
rance of credit to those general interests
and rights, must be subversive of public
liberty.
After reading and referring a run'.bcr
of private petitions—the order of the day
011 Mr. Madison's refutations being called
for—Mr. Lyman moved that their fur
ther consideration Ihould be postponed to
the firlt Monday in March—this motion
was seconded by Mr. Sherbourne, and
occasioned some debate—the motion wa»
grounded on an ailertion made yeftcrday,
that the mercantile interest was oppoled to
the regulations propofed—scd that rime
might be given to receive the result of cer
tain European negociations refpetling (he
spoliations on the commerce and navy of
the United States, now pending—this
motion was carried in the affirmative—
Ayes 51 —Noes 47, as follow :
Ayes—MeflVs. Baily, Baldwin, Blount,
Gaines, Chriliie, Clark, Coles, Dearborn,
Dent, Findlcy, Giles, Gillcfpie, Oilman,
Greenup, Gregg, Grove, Hancock, Har
rifon, Heath, Heifter, Hunter, Irvine,
Locke, Lvman, Macon, Madison, Me*
bane, Montgomery, Moore, Muhlenberg,
Nevill, New, Nicholas, Niles, Orr, Par
ker, Patton, Pickens, Prefion, Ruther
ford, Scott, Sherbcrne, Smiley, I. Smith,
Sprigg, Treadwell, Van Cortlandt, Vena
ble, Winfton, Walker, Williams, 51.
Noes—Mefirs. Arties, Armftr cng.Beat
ty, Boudinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourn, Cad
wallader, Claibourne, Cobb, Coffin, Coit,
Dayton, Dexter, Fitzfimons, Forrejl,
Fclter, Gilbert, Glen, Goodhue, Gordon,
Griffin, Hartley, Hillhoufe, Hindman,
Holten, Kittera, Learned, Lee, Malbone,
M'Dowell, Murray, J. Smith, S. Smith,
W. Smith, Swift, Talbot, Thatcher, Tra
cy, Trumbull, Van Alen, Van Gaafbeck,
J. Wadfworth, P. Wadfworth, Ward,
Watts, Wingate. Winn, 47.
Mr. Tracy of the committee appointed
to consider and report whether any and
what alterations are neceflary to be made
in the law for establishing the post office,
brought in a report which was twice read,
and refer:'cd to a committee of the whole
house on Monday next.
A report was read from the Secretary
of theTreafury, made pnrfuant to an or
der of the House, of the 30th Jan. last.
This report exhibits a statement of the
money in the treasury, an estimate of tlie
amount which may be expected to be paid
in by the firft of April, and a statement
of the domeltic loam,with the fuir.s which
have been paid on account of the said loans
to the Committee of the
whole on the appropriation bill.
" All me, Mr. Printer ! if my neigh
bour Cornelius I'/aterfpout, or my trufiy
friend Sloptup, were at the helm of affairs,
we would have other guess work on't—
But no odds, some of them are determined
to offer their service. Mr. Printer—the
nation of Great-Britain—found it, Sir, —
Is it more harmonious than the nation of
the United States ? The Jleet of Great-Bri
tain—compare it—is it more numerous
or more powerful, than the Jleet of the
United States ? And as to our armies, ex
perience proves what vafl bodies of valiant
heroes we can muster. And now, Sir, alt
true Patriots cry war, War with Britain.
AMERICA.
City Commissioners Office,
-January 30, 1794.
JN purfnance of a Kefolvc ot ihc Common
Council, dated the 20th day of January,
1754, for dividing the City inu» five Diftritts,
by nnc» drawn East artd Weft, whereof each of
the Citv Commiflioners is to take the fuperin
trndance of one of the faiil Diitn&s, and to be
accountable tor the cleaning, good order and
regularity of the fame.
The Commiffibners have accordingly made
the following airangrment tor the prcirr.t :
Dijlrifl the \fi. Naihan Boys, to have the
charge of that part ot the ftter t.s, lanes and alte\ t
from jC<dar-ftieet, to the north Tide of Spruce--
tiieet.
DiJliiEl the 2d. Hugh Roberts, from ihr north
fide of Sprucc-ftrtct to the north fide t»l Waliut
street.
Dffirrß, the 3d. Jofcph Clavpoole, from the
north Tide of Walnut 10 the loath Tide ot Hi^h-
ftrcet.
Dijiiitl the \th. William Mn»|der t from the
north tide ot High, to the north tide of Muibert y
ftrcct
Difirifl (he $fh. Nicholas Hicks, from the
north fide ot Iviulbcny, to the nonh fide ot Vine
ttreet.
Ext' rH frqw the Mrnut'S.
JOHN MEASE, CM.
V. B. The Carriage way 111 Markruftrter, is
under the charge ot the Commiflxonrrs grm raltv,
for the present,< >hc foot-ways on the norili ami
south fides thereof, are conne&ed witt* ibe ad
joining D.ftnitk rftpeflivelyK
CONGRESS.
Itoufe of ReprcftntativN•
WedneJday» February 5,
Adjourned.
E X T R A C r.Peale's Museum,
HAS l ately received a number of
among whieb are ihc lollowing : That
ema*kkble biid called the Cutwater, 01 fcil
irs-bill; The Avofette, ccrtnmonlv called the
ihoe-m.tk r, beraufe oi its bill rcfcmbling a
:rooked awl—The Long-b gs, commonly call
ed the Black-bc, having perhaps tin longed legs,
in proportion to the size of the bud, any of
he feathered tube—Thf Storm finch, common
ly ca!l<d mother Caty's chick'n —I-he Sea
wallow, and various Gulls ; elides a variety
ol Cranes, Curlew *, Snipes, &.£.
Th full «f a Whale and one of its Vcrtc bres.
An India* haichet made of chi\lia
rurious hst those uninformed wild pwplr, hav
ing very of the aits, and being
igno;ant even ot the ex ilencc of iron and lUel,
H.ouid be able to form fuc'.i haid fubftancts in
to fanciful forms as this, and o(h r Indian ma
nutaCtu'es now in the Muleum.
A lignified Quincc : The fpccimcn (hews
wha; a icmaikablc effift a dry waim ft uatioif
has on fruit. Ii is now about 8 years fincc it
was gathered ; and it was a real quince, now be
come wood, at leall in appealance.
Pcefented bv Mrs. Manion ol Charleltown,
S. C. aiooiufed by the O ahei'ans in making
their bark cloth, by pounding the bark on this
inlUument of wood, it produce* the ribs which
resemble threads : the perfectly Ibaight and
equal lines made in tbis extreme haid wood, by
men without the use of iron,are curous & won
derful.
Alio, a rope made of grafj
ing of a ve'ffel of Kamfkatka.
Pielen'ed by I)r.Hall, o! Lewis-town, 3 Squib
in spirits : when this fi!h was lound, a number
ot Hones were append d to firings or ligaments
that projiGetl from the front of its head,which
occasioned a conjetfuic, ;js it iv not turnilbed
w ii,h fufficient fins to resist the violence of thG
tide and currents, that it fattened wt.h thcfc li
gaments on whatever it Sound at the bottom ; so
tiiat ilie Hones answered the purpofeof anchors
and the ot a glutinous'fttcky nature,
that o! cable#. Some of the (tones are in the
Jjine ph'al.
A co.K 6fion of Minerals and other Foflils
a'f now dtfplayed in drawers covered with glass
and in a mode which willfceuie them from de-
rangement. To each specimen are affixed rcfe
ren cs to a book of ccfcripiion*. This manage
ment of specimens of Hie Foflil kingdom, ren
ders this part of the Museum veiv convenient
and fatista6fdry,and great attention will be paid
to the fvftematicbl order of them, and in mak
ing the nect iTary clfn'S of each : Alio in giving
in a concifi maimer, trie various uses they are
applied to; thereby tendering them the more
interfiling to the public.
A Living Elk, of 2 years old. is just receiv
ed. Bv the account which moftl. Button gives
ot thf Elk, it appears that he was not acquaint
ed with titis American animal; he particularly
emits all notice of the curious apertures adjoin-
ing the eves of this Elk
War Atlas.
This Day is Published,
( Price 7 iuo Dollars)
By MAT HEW- CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Jlreet,
A Collection of Maps,
Including the whole of the various Sca:s of
the prcfent War in Europe and the Welt-
Ind-cs. viz.
i."\ /T A P of the United Provinces of Holland,
IVJL Fiirfland, Groniengen, Overyflel, Gcl
drrs, Utrecht, and Zealand.
2. Map of the French, Dutch, and Austrian
Netherlands.
3. Map of Fiance divided into circles and
departments.
4- Map of Spain and Portugal.
5. Map of Germany and Switzerland,
6. Map o! Italy.
7. Map of ihe Weft-Indies.
N. B. Any of the above Maps may be had
separate.
Said Carey has lately pubhfhed
Account of Algiers—wtm a Map—i/io|.
Account of the Malignant Fever, 4th edition—
3/9— Dr. Naff) 's Trcatife on d6.—l/1 o£.
Jan. 25,
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fist
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying-
ground,
'HOAXES this opportunity of returning his
JL grateful thanks to his former employers,
and tequeftingtheir future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repaiir at the
(horteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
fnch as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, wind/or fulkeysand chairs, and ha me fs
of every description, in the neatest and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the heft seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmrn, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaftion to those who plenfe to employ him.
He has for fafe, several carriages almost
finifhed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel Ppiings, a light phaeton ibr
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794* m&t^m
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given, that there will
be paid at the Eank, after the sixteenth
instant, to the Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty cent* for each (hare, being the dividend
declared for the last fx months.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
United States Register,
Containing,
\ CALENDAR, w>m the necefTaiy tables
ft.ted loi the Latitude cf the principal towns
in the Untied Slate*; fuuation, extern, population
and GOVERNMENT U.S.
Supreme Executive,
I.KCIM.ATURI,
Judiciary,
Lift of Counsellors admitted t© pra&ife in
the Supreme Court.
Do. of Auoinirs, Do.
ExfCUTtvß Branches,
Department of Stats,
Mmillers and Confu'.s ot the United States
in foreign nations.
Do. of foreign nations resident in the
United States.
Department of th» Treasury,
Principals and Clerks of the refpeftive of
fices,
Commiflioners of Loans,
Officcis ofthr Customs, with their rcfpcc
tive diftri&s and ports,
Officers of the Excise, with their rtfpeftivc
di(l< ids and survey»,
Lift of dutiable articles, &c.
Abftra# from the revenue laws,
Statement of the public debt,
of Light-houses,
of appropriation for the support
, ot Government.
part of the rigg-
Department of War,
Secretary's office,
Accountant's,
Monthly pay, See. of the army
Mint Establishment,
Officers.
AbHraft from the laws relating to coinage,
Post Office Establishment,
Office**,
Abftrafl from the law establishing the office
Lift of pod towns, with their refpe6tive
di ftanc.es as eftabliihed by the Polt-Maf
ter General.
Latitude and Longitude of the prin
cipal towns in the United States and their
vicinity.
Banks,
United States,
North Ameiica,
State banks with their capitals.
Literary Institutions.
American Philosophical Society, See.
American Academy .of Arts and Sciences.
National Manufactory at Paieifon
N. j.
Sessions of the Courts of the United
Western Territory
State Governments.
Abftrafl from the constitution of each state
Principal officers, executive, legislative and
judiciary.
Militia,
Officers of the Banks, capitals, dates of in
corporation, periods of limitation, ex
tent of property, &c.
Untverfities, Colleges and Academies,
Societies, (cientific, humane, political
Exhibiting in as general and comprehensive a
view as pollible the internal police, the stale
of litetature, arts, commerce, and focuty,in
the several states.
Price 50 cents.
Printed by Stewart and Cochran, No. 34,
South Sccond (beet, and John M'Culloch, No.
1, norrh Third ftrect, and fold by them and
the booksellers. Jan. 27. d6t
Notice is hereby given,
the fubferiber has been duly ap-
X pointed Administratrix on the estate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Efq- late of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herfelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law diredts—and all persons in
terested, are defirtd to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793-
ALL persons who have any demands against
the Estate of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subscriber, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who stand indebted to said Estate, are
reauefted to fettle with him immediately; as the
Ast of Limitation of Actions, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
otherwise render it neccffary for him to com
mence suits against them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793*
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requested to insert this in their
refpeftive newspapers, and forward their ac
counts for the fame, to J. M
Tveafury Department,
NOTICE is hereby give-n, that proposals will
be received at the Office of the Secretary
of the Treasury, until the 6:h of February next
inclusive, for the supply of all Rations which
may be required during the prcfent year, *1 the
fcveral places of rendeivous hereafter mention
ed, for the Recruiting Service, viz.
At New-Brunfwick, in Ncw-Jerfcy;
Ai Philadelphia, ")
At Lancaster, in Pennsylvania,
At Reading, )
The rations to be furniflied arc to consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or \ of a potind of pork,
Half ajili of lum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait
Two quarts of vinegars
... n j r r > per too rations
Iwo pouods ot loap ( r
On- pound of candles)
JhJI publlfljedi
THE
For the Year 1794.
States.
Take Notice.
fuft Imported,
From London> Dublin and Glasgow,
And now opening for (ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jlreet,
A I-arge and Valuable
COLLECTION of BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Regilter for 1792
European Magazine for tlwe firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman tmpire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Difiey's life of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Aitoirs of Guy Joli
Memty,a collection of eflays
Varieof Prussia's works
Calm obfervei—by Mackintofti
RufTell's ancient and modern Europe
I-anghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extra&s of natural history
Saugnier and Briflon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's didtronary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
I inlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kilfos of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
VaiHaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Bcnington on materialism and immaterialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's sketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's di&ionaiy
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse di&ionary
Heveries of fotttude
Smith's theory of moral sentiment«
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. &: Hid.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark, Ruflia, Poland,&c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's oatlincs of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's dfpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertlon's treatise on fevers
Lees botaYiy,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armias
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's diflertations
London pradlice of physic
'Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
MONEY botrowed or leaned, accounts fta
tcd or colletted, employers suited with
domestics, houfeYooms, boarding and lodging
Rented, let or procured—foldicr's, mariner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims on the
public ; (hares in the banks, in the canals, and
the turnpike road ; ceitificates granted by die
public, and the old and late paper monies ;
notes of hand, bills, bonds and tnorgages, -with
or without depolits—Bought, fold, or r.cgo
ciated at No. 8, in south Sixth-street, below
by FRANCIS WHITE,
Whotranfadh business in tho public offites for
country people and others, by virtue of a pow
er of attorney, or by pcrfonal application.
December 11.
tawl6F.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Secvnd-jlreetj
Seconddoor below the cornerofCheinut-flreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general AJfortment of
New Books ,an J Stationary,
Which will be difpoi'ed of on the foweft terms.
Dec. 23. mwjjftf
ALL persons having any de
mand* agauiit the cilate ul Gt.ORGE
VVIHLE, late ot the city ol Philadelphia, baker,
are rrqueftrd to bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated; and those who are indebted, aic
defircd to make immediate payment.
HENRY REES, Aminiftrator.
January 13.
Encyclopedia,
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookseller, at the Stone Houfc, in Second
llreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionary
Of Arts, Sciences, and Miscellaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
BY WHICH
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are d'tgejled Into the form of
Diftindl Treaties or Systems :
THIS volume contains principles of Levels
Liberty, Doctrine of Light, Lightning,
Lock*, Logarithms, Logic, History ol Lon-
don, Longitude. Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetifai, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illuilrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number oft families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the fubfcr bers to calf or fend for their vo
lume*;, that they may be supplied as early as
poflible.
The tf.nth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an imperfect state, some ac
count of the reason of that imperfedlion should
be given. On the Bth of September last, the*
Publifker had the misfortune of having his
Printing-Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among o flier articles, the figures, with
which he was printing the tables of lo
garithms, belonging to the present volume,
were melfcd down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the neceflity of pub
Hilling the volume without these tables; but
hopes he (hall be able to publifli them with the
next volume which is now in conliderable for-
wardnefs.
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
expressing his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of reprefen ting to l'uch of the subscribers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necessity of
punctuality, both in taking up ihe volumes as
early as possible after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the sub
scribers having got only one, two, thiee, &:c.
volumes, and several volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpmd lays the Publisher under
very serious embarraflment,and deprives him
of the ufeof many Thoufonds of Dollars which
at this time would be of very eflential fervioe.
For tbefe reasons the Publisher finds himfelf
under the necessity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, 3nd in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those who
take and pay to the time of publication.
Dcccmbtfr 10.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pound s#
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
Cj~ Terms of Subscription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annnm—to be
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of perfotis
who refule at a diflance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advertifement 8 of otufquare, or less, in
fertedfour times for One Dollar—once, for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
ptrlion. Favors in this line, and Subscrip
tions, ivill be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourthflreet,Jive doors north of the
Indian Queen
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed bv JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
2av>'3"'
Vol. X,
2awti J.