Cfeefte of fbe Iflttifri) UMate
EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 66 of Vol. V.]
Wanted to Charter,
SSL A VESSEL
fcgffi£Sß| Of iooo Barrels burthen.
Enquire of
JOHN CRAIG.
Feb. 24, 1794
For Sale or Charter,
mL ANDROMACHE,
( an American bottom)
yohv Moore, Master ;
Is a ttout good vefiVl, about two years old,
burthen 23a tons, has only made three voy
ages, and may be sent to sea at a small ex
pence. She may be Teen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
Wharton Ss° Lewis.
F< b. 12, 1794. ' dtf
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street :—
A few Bales of Riiflia Sheetings.
Barcelona, Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A l>alr of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Syucbong T< a, Hyson and
Tonkav, ditto.
Holland Cm in Cases,
A Quantity of Hriir.ftonr,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. ao,
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON the 31ft of last month. the fubf'.iib r ad
dr> ffcO » letter to Mefffj, Tiionui P tar fall
£# San, merchants in New-York, and \ndofed
therein a bank note, No. 445, for twenty dol
lars ; ont ditto, No. 151, i<»t thirty dollars;
and one ditto, No. 3<&66, for twenty dollars.
—He also addrcflVd -\ letter to Mr. Gilbert
S«.ti»jlali, nureliant in New-Yo»k T inclofwg a
bank bill, No. 148, lor filry dollars, indoiftd
on ihe bark thereof in thefc words—" P») ihe
within to Mr. Gilbert Saltoiffla//—~Eben. Hunting
ton—He also addreflVd a letter to Meffis. White
<* Wardell, merchants in New-York, and inctp
feda bank bill sot ten dollars, and a draft in fa
vor ot laid White £3 War dell, which letters were
put in the Pott-Office on fatd 31 ft J a "uary, to
be fuiwaidcd to New-York ; But by letters re
ceived from the Gentlemen to whom they wire
fcverally addrcflVd, the money was robbed
from each letter before delivery.
The Public are rcqut ftcd io endeavor a de
tr£hon ol the Villains who committed the above
robbery. The hill indorsed, I think was a Yoik
bank bill, and some others, one or more was
of ibe Untied Stales hank, remitted at Philadel
phia. Any person difcovenng the Thief, and
returning the Money, (hall be entitled to fii'ty
dttliats rewaid.
EBEN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, 141b F'h. 1794. gw-aw
Philosophical Lectures,
By J. M. RAY.
FROM Edinburgh, lately ftotn Paris,
teacher of Hebrew, &c. language-, au
thor of Comprehensive View of Philosophical,
Political, and Theological Syfleins, frotn the
creation of the world to the present time, &c.
He will begin this second comTe t)T Lectures
Fcbru ry 27th, at 6 o'clock in the evening, in
the Friends' grammar school room, 4tl» street,
and will finifh it in a month.—The idea of it
•wasfuggefted by for.ie Ladies for the improve
ment of the (ex—but it is calculated for both
lexes (of any age above childhood) whereby
they will discover a new world in nature,
concealed from others as a fine country is
from travellers in the night, and as the light,
a«»d the appearancc of natuie is from the
blind; this will be a new fceneof enjoyment
and delight, as that of feeing is to one born
blind, and will teach thein to acquire the pro
per ule of their faculties, as a child does that
of his limbs by learning to walk : —this will
elevate thein to a Philosophical region of sub
lime enjoyments and rational pleasures, as
much superior to the pleasures and amuse.
inents of others as a man is to a child in sta
ture, and which will endure the (hock of ad
versity, and not for fake them like others, in
affli&ion and old age ; as the use and end of
ail real knowledge is practice and happiness,
this course will tend to promote personal hap
piness, and fit for the duties of society, one
part of it will be on the preservation of health
of body and serenity of mind, without which
riches can aflord no enjoyment : those whoob
fcrved Hie author's regimen,escaped the Pesti
lential d>leafe in the houfc were others died
of it. To begin with an introductory Lec
ture on the benefits of PbUofopby to
human life.
Feb. >9.
A RECOM OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby off;red by the President and Diiec
tois of the Bank of the United States, to any
person who on or before the firft day of
May ocxt, produce to them such a plan and eve
laiion of a Banking House, as (hall be approved
of bythern.—A plain, yet h'andfome from i-s
dtfired ! The whole building is to be fubllantial
and commodious with as much space around it,
as the size of the ground'wiM admit.
The Lot on which tbf building is to be rrcft
ed, is iituated on the well (ids of Third-ftrcet,
between Chefnut and Walnut-ftrcets in Phila
delphia ; and its dimrnfion* are 110 feci on
Tbird-llreet, and about 100 feet westward.
THOMAS WILLING, President
cop 3 W -
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39*900 Dollars, cn 266,000
Dollars, deducting 15 P er Cent, from
the Prizes—this Lottery conjtjls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
14,539 Prizes and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
r Dire&orsof the Society for eflablifliing
X Ufeflil Manufafturcs, having resolved to
erefif LOTTERIES for raising One Hundred
Tho«s a nd Dol la ft. s, agreeably 10 an A£t of
(he Lcgifl turc of the Suite of New-Jeifey, hive
appointed the following perfoni to fuperintrnd
arid dire£l the drawing of the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rufus King, Herman Le Roy, James
Watson, Richard Harrifon, Abijah Hammond,
and Cornelitif Ray, of the city of New-York—
Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew B?yarri, of the city of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
Elias Bondinot, Geneial Elias Dayton, Jamis
Parker, tohn Bayard, Do&or Lewis Dunham,
Samuel W. Stpckton, JolViua M. Wallace, Joseph
Bloomlield, and Elifli . Boudinot, of New-Jer
sey, who offer the following Scheme of a Loi
ter v, and pledge ihemfcives to the public, that
iKey will take every aifurancc and precaution in
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from titve to time, as received, into
the BaViks at New-Yoik aiVft Philadelphia, to'
remain for ihepurpofeof paying Pries, which
shall be immediately difchargcd by a check
upon one of the Banks.
3'aw6w
SCHEME:
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 20,000
O L, «
1 Prize of
l
2
5
io
20
ICO
3 co
1 GOO
2000
3000
8100
14,,539 Prizes. 262,000
23.461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Lafldrawn number, 2,000
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
The drawing will commence, under the m
fpc&ion of a Committee of the Superintendants,
as soon as the Tickets are fold,ot whtch timely
notice will be given.
The .Superintendants have appointed John N.
Cumroing, of Newark, Jacob R. Hardenbeig,
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Trcnion, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample security for d'feharging the
trutt rcpofed in them.
(£3T In order to fecurethe purt&u.tl payment
of the Prizes, the Superintendants of the Lottery
have di retted that the Managers (ball each enter
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four fuflicient
Securities, to perform their inftiu£lious, the fub
ftancc of which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
shall receive the sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
be (ball immdiately place the fame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit of the Governor of the Society, and such
of the Superintendants as live in the city where
the monies are placed, to remain there until the
Lottery is drawn, for the payment of the Prizes.
11. The Managers to take Sufficient (ecurity
for any Tickets they may trull, o'.herwife to be
refponnble for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
(frafts of which (ball be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to cither of-the above gentle
men, information will be given where tickets
may be had.
February 24.
C 3* 7bis Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement —The Subscription
encreafes daily—Advertising Favors are
fo!icited —Theje conjlitute an ejjfential Item
in diminijbing the Debit fide of the Account.
AND
Thursday, February 27, 1794.
10,000
10,000
10,000
5,000
2,000
10,000
10,000
I.COO
500
j 00
5°
20
'5
12
10,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
30,000
36,000
8 i.ooo
tawtf.
By the President of the United States of
America.
A Proclamation.
WHEREAS by information given
upon oath, it appears that in the
night time of the twenty second day of
November, a number of armed men hav
ing their faces blackened and being other
wise disguised, violently broke open and
entered the dwelling house of Benjamin
Wells collector of the revenue arising from
spirits dillilled within the United States,
in and for the counties of Wcftmoreland
and Fayette in the diflritt of Pennfylva
n la, and by assaulting the said colledtor
and putting him in fear and danger of his
life, in his dwelling house aforefaid, in the
said county of Fayette did compel him to
deliver up to them his commifiion for col
lecting the said revenue, together with
the books kept by him in the execution
of his said duty, and did threaten to do
further violence to the said collector, if he
did not shortly thereafter publicly renounce
the further execution of his said office :
And whereas several of the perpetra
tors of the said offence are still unknown,
and the fafety and good order of society
require that such daring offenders should
be discovered and brought to justice so
that infraction l ! of the law may be prevent
ed, obedience to them secured, and officers
protected in the due execution of the trusts
reposed in them, therefore I have thought
proper to offer and hereby do offer a re
ward of TWO HUNDRED DOL-
L A RS for each of the said offenders that
shall be discovered and brought to justice
for the said offence, to be paid to the per
son or persons who (hall firft discover and
give information of the said offenders to
any judge, justice of the peare, or other
magistrate.
And I do hereby ftri&ly charge and
enjoin all officers and ministers of justice
according as their refpe&ive duties may
require, to use their bell endeavors to
cause the said offenders to be discovered
apprehended and secured, so that they
may be speedily brought to trial for the
offence aforefaid.
In Testimony whereof I have
( . Ncaufed the seal of the United
■ of America to be affixed
to these presents, and signed the
fame with my hand. Done at
the city of Philadelphia the 24th
day of February one thousand
seven hundred and ninety four,
and of the Independence of the
United States of America, the
eighteenth.
Go. WASHINGTON.
By the Prcjident
Edm : Randolph,
CONGRESS.
Houfi of Representatives.
January aB.
In committee of the whole on Mr. Madison's
refolutiont.
SPEECH of MR. MURRAY.
Mr. Murray said he should feel himfelf
admonished by the lateness of this period
of the debate, and call of the question
from his colleague, to shorten the remarks
which he intended to offer against the re
solutions, nor would he now presume on
the indulgence of the committee, after so
much had been said, did he not hold it to
be the duty of a representative to use eve
ry exertion, either to obtain good, or to
avert an evil. He would endeavor to avoid
tiring the committee with a repetition of
what had been so ably stated by those with
whom he thought, and would leave the
clear and comprehensive statement of the
relative situation of our trade towards G.
Britain, France, and other powers, to
that good sense in the committee, which
would find ample consolation in the com
.parifon. As his own prejudices, which
he confeffed were heretofore foftered by a
defect of commercial knowledge,had yield
ed to the lights which his own examiiia
[Whole No. 524-]
tion and that of others had thrown on
this question j he entertained a hope that
others similarly situated, would candidly
and impartially view a fubjeft, which de
manded a difmiflion of prejudice and pas
sion, and which ought to be tried npon a
commercial principle, which was a com
puting and a comparing one.
He had early, and for a long time taken
up ideas without much examination, that
the American commerce faffered from illi
beral reftriftions, and declared, that when
the gentleman from Virginia, firft suggest
ed his intentions, the outlines, which he sb
ably drew, met his strongest prepofieffions.
—If any thing from that gentleman then
gave an inauspicious air to the measure he
proposed, it was the eagerness with which
he urged for an early and hasty discussion
of those resolutions, which no member
could look at, after all that had been said,
without perceiving that they related to the
bed and largest intereftsof this country —
intereftswhich required diligence and much
refle&ion to comprehend, and which all
the palTions, and all the feelings could by
no means do justice to in the estimate.—
They were interests that required great
coolness to discern, and to measure pro
perly.—They had resulted from pra&ice
and the nature of our situation, and they
ought to be treated with refpeft, and in
novated on with caution. The reftriftions
contemplated a great change of commerci
al arrangements, bottomed both on pre
sumed commercial injuries sustained under
its present regulations, and on political
views, which long {landing, and recent
evils had brought into notice.
He could not agree, that the commercial
arrangements at present existing, were the
belt that could possibly exist—nor was he
insensible to the political evils we had en
dured, but he doubted how far these reso
lutions were formed to remedy the firft,
or to remove the last.
He believed the commercial situation
of this country relatively considered, to
wards the powers of Europe, was now
pretty well underllood to be indebted
more to interest than to partiality in any
of the powers.
That it was (lourilhing when confidercd
independently of the present war from
which nothing certain could be concluded,
he had no doubt.
With refpeft to the comparative efti
matc of the reltriftions and privileges im
posed or granted by those powers, or by
the United States, he fliould tiuft the ef
ficacy of the information on that part of
the question, to the recollettion of the
committee, and would confine himfelf to
a few points which he believed had been
but lightly touched on by others. He
would endeavor to offer some remarks
that he thought palliated some of the evils
complained of as grounds of change ; and
confine his views to a few heads of com
plaint. It was said our commerce was
(hackled by the Britiih, and by the influ
ence of habit; that our tonnage was un
equal to oar exports—that arrangement*
might be made with other nations, who
would give us a greater latitude and more
liberal terms. He denied that the com
merce of the United States was (hackled
or confined, or that it was reftri&ed unna
turally by old colonial habits. The re
port of the adlual tonnage of the United
States (hewed us a foreign commerce, em
ploying 289,294 tons. Any man who
was acquainted with the real date of this
fubjeft would naturally have concluded,
from the declarations of gentlemen, that,
so inveterately were our old colonial ha
bits formed, and so miserably was our
commerce confined, this large amount of
tonnage must have been concentered Ln the
ports of Britain or her colonies.
The reverse was the truth, and in sup
port of this idea he would refer to the re
port. —This report shews that oni (hips
visit every part of the world—that there
is no place to which American enterprises
does not convey our various products. It
is a chart of our maritime genius, extreme-ly exhilerating to our pride k afli
It argument the a.Terlion.
It goes beyond controversy ; it is a con-
v: which can be underltood by any
man who can read. There is no refilling
its force, when adduced to prove, that so
far is our commerce from being confined,
that the most dift.int ports and oceans in
RuiTii and China, and t ie Pacific, are its
o.ily boundaries. It completely il!u!tr?.tes
t ie practical as well as theoretical indepen
dnceof AfriSfican commerce ; for of the
whole amount of the tonnage employed
a'tiroid, but lixty-two }hou(and,fome odd
hundreds, go to Britain and its dependen
ces—-there jirs two hundred and uventy
r<(feri thousand tons of this-,total, employ
ed among other nations and Britain,
which formerly monopolized indeed our
confciwrcc, bun now a little trtore than one
fifth of the navigation of the United States
ii! her pons. It is true that 3-4 th» of
the imports are from thence and that our
export :c her is not equal to this import;
but that deficiency is paid circuitoufiy and
to advantage, by bills, for as the trade is
fr*e to leave her, as the merchants, actu
ated by interest, would buy as cheap as
p 'ii')!-, we are fairly to conclude, that
they fell fume of our raw materials and
produCts to more advantage in other ports
than h;rs,but yetpurchafe in her's cheap
er j so the commerce mnft be a beneficial
one, or they would naturally forfake it.
Tfut our exports are greater to Portugal,
Spain, and the United Provinces, than
our imports from thence, is a proof that
they give good prices for our products ;
but from want of adornments, or from
their manufactures not being as saleable
litre, or as cheap as those from Britain,
our merchants make upby bills from those
places on London, to supply the defici
ency of the export to that port. With
respect to predilection for Britain, intro
duced as a ground of consumption.he did
no: believe it exi(ted ; certain he was, he
i-'lt it not h; mL"!f. He could fee nothing
in the mere exercise of taste, in the con
f-.lnsptuiii of manufactures, or preference
of what was well man faCturid and cheap
that was connected with the theory of po
litical sentiment. In this country, no
such predilection for that nation exiited j
0:1 the contrary, he believed the most sub
- nit^'a! in t.'relii a£ commerce were now at
brssud, from the very prejudices which
were iifed by gentlemen fometiines to
prove the very reverse. As to the perfeCt
freedom or trade, and that unrverfal trea
ty, of which the gentleman from Virginia
(Mr. Giles) gave us a hint, but no outline,
the other clay, he qucftioned much if the
accidental variance among nations, on
whicu substantial differences had been
moulded by habits, rendered the thing
poflible, and were it poflible, whether all
yung countries that were not on even
terms of manufacture, and ready for a
competition of ingenuity, would not fiif
fer extremely by the institution ; he was
sure this would. The idea was a benevo
lent one, but it was not one that could
bear practice. On all questions ill which
great and complicated ioterefts were under
speculation, when habit, and modes of
life and taste, and an immemorial course
of things were to be considered, he al
ways wi.'ned to fee much rrfpeCt paid to
theyalt as well as the existing order of I
such tluVgn, as long as the result of the
whole feezed to be a great and certain
(hare of national prosperity. It was, Mr.
Murrey obfer-ved, a difficult and hazard
ous tiling to attempt to define with preci
sion the particular caufc of prosperity; it
led to political quackery. know how
ever with certainty,that never did a coun
try so rapidly move forward to perfection
as do the United States. That our na
vigation has encreafed since the adoption
of this government, iu proportion to o
tlirr branches of trade, and that our com
merce is both uftful and ornamental, and
tue inftrumcat of a revenue edential to
the payment of a debt that we must dif
cha rye. »
He said the complaint of gentlemen
who supported the resolutions that our ton
""Z* inatierjuate to our exports, was in
his mind an inconsiderate and fallacious
species of regret. It might be a desirable
thing were our tonnage equal to,our ex
ports, 1.-ut even this would be a good or
an evil, a« it might be connected or not
with objects over which we had no certain
control;!. He would remark, that such
a state of navigation at prcfent a (fumed
twj things as its balis—a great and mani
feft disproportion between all the branches
of industry dependant on fhip-huilding and
navigation, and the other trades ; and our
o.ds the
power of becoming carriers for other na
tions, which would not be the cafe if ma
ritime powers acted with their aecuftomcd
vigilance.—Unless the latt employment
were provided for by the regulations of
foreign powers in fav'or of our (hips, the
firft would be a terious evil. He thought
it a (ate propofuion to which nothing but
wild and crude speculation could be op-
P'-jied ; to fay—that, as long as our right
to be the curriers of other nations was not
submitted to ly them, the power to export all
the raw materials of this country and its
products would be an evil. This regret of
gentlemen he believed to be founded on a
companion of this branch of trade here
and in other maritime countries, as Hol
land, England, and some others. A lit
tle reflection would, he believed, afford
consolation by (hewing that their compari
tive superiority in the carrying business
resulted from a solid difference in thefitu
ation of these countries, and of the Unit
ed States;—nay, that this very superiori
ty is the result of neceflity more than
choice—a neceflity which the free and
happy citizens of this rich and abundant
country did not feel, and which they
would not feel for ages. The canying
trade of this country will never be equal to
its exports till the population of America
bears a nearer proportion to the lands and
the raw materials; till each branch of in
dustry is proportionably supplied with la
bor j or the foreign powers admit our car
rying trade to a fair competition with
their own. It is true that we abound in
articles of iminenfe importance to the Eu
ropean artist, but they are so extremely
bulky and heavy, that it is clear our ex
ports require more than double the quan
tity of tonnage that the imports demand.
The exports are tobacco, rice, grain, of all
forts, lumber, pot and pearl-a(h, and such
heavy and bulky products; whereas the
imports are manufactures, small in bulk,
high finiflied, light, portable and of great
value for the space and tonnage they re
quire in tranfportatiou, The proportion
between them both is of value, and not of
size. The firft and great tendency of all
things here is towards agriculture and the
rougher arts, as lumber getting, which
belongs to agriculture—the other arts aud
pursuits are but auxiliary to thislmainbody
of the national calling. This predispositi
on and tendency will be for ever keeping
up the ability to furnifh the raw and bulky
article of export, while it irrefiftably dis
furni(hes the (hip-yard and its dependant
arts, of that industry which would be ne
cessary to complete the power of affording
domestic tonnage equal to the export;
that is, we can afford more labor in the
procuring of the export, than we can spare
to the arts of (hip-building and navigation.
—these pursuits that belong to agriculture
and a fettled life, art more congenial with
our country, where freedom and plenty
invite to marriage, the rearing of families,
and the acquisition of lands. At present
he believed the fcamen engaged in the fo
reign American tannage, to fay nothing
of the coasting trade and fifheries, which
doubled the amount, were more than in
proportion to the citizens employed in the
mechanic and manufacture trade, making
the relative proportions between them ih
England the standard to judge by.
The tonnage rapidly increased every
year j and, ht took it for granted, would
observe a due proportion under its present
great encouragement, which amounted
just to an easy protection to stimulate in
dustry and secure cheap imports, without
giving a rash monopoly to that branch of
business—and here he would remark, that
under the existing legulation, the very
best consequence flowed in on the consu
mer. By the additional duty of ten per
cent, on goods imported in foreign bot
toms, and the addition of forty-four cents
per ton we secured the importation of fo
reign goods to American tonnage, and by
this means bought cheap ; and by leaving
your ports free to foreign vessels under an
easy tonnage duty, there is a competition
kept up in the domestic market for those
exports, for which the foreign tonnage
comes into your harbor. Thus already we
buy cheap and fell dear at home. The com
petition that arises in our markets, in con
sequence of foreign (hips becoming carri
ers of the surplus over that to which our
own tonnage is equal, certainly raised the
price of all things exportable; and a sud
den and violent check in this order of
things would vitally affect the agricultu
ral, the lumber, the tobacco and all the
more bulky objects of exportation.
It appeared then to him that the anti
cipation of cffeCts from the resolutions,
on the point of disproportion between our
exports and tonnage, was calculated on a
growth of navigation forced unnatural and
pernicious—a growth that would call off
from other employments the labor which
19 better bellowed as it now is, in iucrea
iing our ability to furnifh, by enlarging
the powers of agriculture.
A fuddeu alteration which would, for
a considerable time, check that competi
tion between the foreign carrier and our
own, for our produds, would surely do
mifchief; nor could he fee into what line
of employment, except the mere carrying
of our exports, would so immense an addi
tion to our navigation be led ; for unless
foreign powers permit its participation in
that branch of trade which from local con
iideration has eyer been deemed so precious
to them, the tonnage that conveys the ex
ports, over and above that quantity of it
neceflary to the imports, mult return in
ballast : That is,if ithe export requires fix
hundred thousand tons, and the imports
but three hundred thousand, there will be
the half of our tonnage employed abroad,
either in voyages that will but little bene
fit our country which wants internal labor
more than foreign enterprize, at least of
so useless a kind, or it will return in bal
lad.
But even admitting its policy he had
no evidence of the only thing, which,
combined with the idea of a nary, could
render the object attainable, he meant
the relaxation of the great naviga
tion fydems in Europe which secured to
their own (hips, advantages, in which par
ticipation was contemplated—ln the two
great scenes, France and Great Britain,
to which American habits and course of
business would mod probably lead, and
from whence the manufactures were to
be imported, the American carrier would
find himfelf after unlading his export un
der reftriftions which would force him
to feck distant and circuitous trading
voyages, or return home in ballad. In
both these countries, he would find his
enterprise checked by their respective
navigation acts:—For Monsieur Barrere
has reported a navigation aft—it has been
adopted by the convention—and as far as
it refpefts the carrying trade precludes us
except merely for our own pj-oduftions.
The artificial progrefsof things in France
in manufactures, her political rivalries,
and her colonial relations one would have
supposed would long since have pointed
out such an imitation of the Englilh
aft—The Englilh ast seemed dictated by
necessity arising from causes, which, feme
what resembling those of France find lit
tle analogy in the present circumstances of
this country.
When imitation is pointed out to us as
a piece of policy, it is a duty to »iew our
a (Sua! situation to discover similitude of
principle and causes ; and to estimate the
importance of differences between nation,
al qualities here and in countries of whose
practice and fyftemsan imitation is propos
ed. If the situations, times and causes
are similar, there will be plausible ground:
If other causes of national prosperity,
more eligible than those of other countries
present themselves to our view, we ought
to be cautious,certain and flow to decide.
Very remarkable differences are palpable
here from the circumstances that seemed
to him to have forced the carrying powers
of Europe to be such. It was important
to view them, for political contentment
would result from a comparison in which
we found our difference.
(Speech to be continued.)
Foreign Intelligence.
BRUSSELS, December 3.
The grand army, under Prince Co
bourg, has lately made a retrograde move
ment ; it ij in great part cantoned near
Mons, and the head quarteri are removed
from Bavay to that city. The right wing,
■which is continually harrafled by the
French, is covered by Conde, and ex
tends through Marchk nnt's, a s far as
Courtray. The center has an excellent
position before Mons, between Bavay,
Valenciennes and Quefnoy, and protetts
our 15,000 labourers, who are diligently
working to repair the fortifications of the
two lad towns. The left which extends
through Beaumont and Chimai, to Na
mur, where the corps under General Beau
lieu is polled, is Ms secure, and exposed
to the frequent Tallies which, for this week
past, have been made by the garrison of
Maubeuge. To prevent this in future,
Prince Cobourg has just feat a reinforce
ment of 4000 men, who after having
driven the French from the neighborhood
of Beaumont, have taken post round that
small town ; so that our grand army is
now secure againfl surprize, considering
that the frontiers from Furnes to Namur,
Huy and Liege, are fufficiently provided
with troops to repel any second tnvafion.
We are chiefly indebted for thele good
positions, which have entirely counteracted
the plans formed by the Committee of
War and General Jourdan, at Paris, to
the highly important information commu
nicated by the French Ajutant General
to the Army of the North to Prince Co
bourg. This General deserted on the 21ft
of last month, has been well received by
the Mmiftry, and had a long conference
with the Arch Duke Charles. After hav
ing betrayed all the plans of attack, he
yesterday departed for Mons.
" By accounts received this morning
f rom _ army of the Rhine, it appears
that in the different a&ions, from the 21 (I
to the 26th ult. the Auftrians have had
3.090 men killed and wounded, among
whom are many brave officers. Col. de
Priefs, Baron de Badder, Count de Clenau,
Banfy, Tianconet, and Engelfheim, all
offi cer« commandant, besides 16 of inferior
rank are killed. Among the wounded are
Colonels Scharda, Kruzi, Ktianz, Lee,
Mafur, and others. The loss of the Prus
sians is more considerable, amounting to
6000 men, killed and wounded. Among
the wounded are Prince Loin's of Prufiia,
who received a musket snot in his arm.
" The loss of the French is doubtiefa
much greater. It is computed at 10,000
killed and wounded; but they were almost
every where viaorioiis ; for they attacked
all the Auftnan and Prufiian posts at once,
with 48,000 men, of whom General
Wurmfer alonehad to fight against 25,000.
" The coßfequence is, that Wurmfer
has been compelled to retreat and take
poll behind Haguenau, here he can hard
ly maintain himfelf for eight days. The
Duke of Brunfwick was less fortunate.
He was pursued as far as Nieufladt, in the
Palatinate, within three leagues of Lan
dau, where he arrived with his troops in
the moll deplorable condition, and almolt
entirely defeated. The Prussian General
Kalkreiith, who fufftred less, is potted
with the troops under his command, at
Keyferj Lautern, to oppose some cheek
to the rapid advance of the French column
from Deux Ponts.
" The ravages committed by the French,
an all the country evacuated by the Pruf
liani, more efpccially in the Dutchy of
Deux Pouts, are dreadful. Whatever they
could not carry off they committed to the
■flames. All the fine houses of the capita!
are burnt.
" Surprising or ridiculous as it may
seem, the official details published here th.'s
day by authority of government speak on
ly of fuccefles, victories, and the total de
feat of the French army. But it is only
neceflary to compare fadts with confequn
ces, to fee that the above accounts which
come from persons of undoubted veraeity,
and means of knowledge, are but two well
founded.
" A part of the Emperor's horses and
ba g!? a g e arrived yesterday from Vienna ;
but if the French should penetrate farther
into Treves, where they are now in force,
his majesty's journey may be retarded."
December 6.-
Dampierre late Adjutant General to
General Jourdan, is returned from Morn,
accompanied by another French General
officer. What is fuprifmg it, that these
two officers appear every where, even at
the theatre, in the Republican uTriform.
Dampierre is very well received, particu
larly by the minister Count Metternich.
He is very affable, prepoffefling, and, as is
(aid, a very able officer. It is generally be
lieved that the failure of the French plan
of attack, is solely owing to the accuracy
with which he communicated it to the
Prmce of Saxe Cobourg, two days before
it was intended to be made.
The number of Tick and wounded in the
five military Hospitals of this city, on the
30th of November, -was 11,400. From
the 15th to the 30th, the deaths were
1 759> including the French, who are min
gled with the Auftrfans in the Hospitals.
The grand Maifon de Force at Vilvoorde,
will soon be readyjto receive 4000 of these
miserable wretches, one third of whom
are now lying on Uraw in the corridors of
the Hospitals.
HAGENAU, (in Alsace) Nov. 10.
Extrtft of a private letter. " When
the Combined army, marched through ourtown, it was a truly affecting fight to fee
old and venerable officers, gentlemen droop
ing with years, Knights of St. Louis, ci
tizens, women, in Ihort every description
of the serious and orderly inhabitants,
surrounding the horse which the Prince of
Conde rode, eager to touch his cloaths to
kiss his hands, and mix their tears ot joy
with those of the followers of the Prince
in his misfortunes. It was to this exalted
character, a fpeftacle of the most affecting
sensibility. The momentary silence which
was occasioned by this hallowed language
of nature, was inilantly interrupted by the
universal acclamations of " Vive la Roi
XVII. Vive Condi."
" If the taking of Weifiembourg
had been delayed, only 24 hour?, a corifi
derablenumberofdecent-inhabitants, which
this town contains, were to be l-ranfported
into the heart of France, and imprisoned
■with so many thousands who groan now
in iruiu, or who daily bleed on the fcaffold.
LONDON, Dec. jo.
Roland, the late miniiler of the Interi
or ia Fiance, who died, by want in afo
relt, in which he was obliged to conceal
himfelf, was about 62 years of age, of a
tall, but not robust figure, of unaffe&ed
manners, and of much simplicity in his
appearance, his grey hairs being constant
ly permitted to flow over his (houlders.
His literary powers it is unnece.Tary to
notice.
The fortrefs of Biche, which the Pruf
fions unfuccefsfully attempted to take by
a coup de main, appears like an Eagle's
reft, perch'd oil the fumniit of a rock :
the ratnparts are cut out in the middle of
a rock ; the embrasures of the artillery,
the magazines, and a very deep well, are
equally so ; so that it is one of those ex
traordinary places which can be only tak
en by famine. It communicates bv an
high road wth Wert and Haguenau, and
by a more difficult one with Leitemberg
and Bufiwdlet. It is thus in the power
of the French troops to molest General
Wurmfcr.
The Revolutionary Tribunal has con
demned to death Diipont Dutertre, Ex
Minister of Justice, and Barnave, an Ex.
Member.
DUKE OF ORLEANS.
The trial of this man occupied only
four hoili-s. When the ast of accusation
was read, he said, " that the day of his
trial " would be the happitft of his life."
He was sentenced to die at 2 o'clock in
the afternoon of the 6th inft. and at four
o'clock he was conveyed in a cart to the
place of execution.
7he of the people were attentive
ly fixed upon him. He discovered aftate
of Itiipefaftion, which by some was tho't
vompofure. The cart flopped by some
accident upcn the Place de la Egalite, be
fore his palace—He furveved it with
milch attention, and turned' his head to
look at it as long as he could. To the
exclamations of indignation and curses
bellowed upon him by the people he made
no reply, nor did he appear much affected
by them. When the cart arrived at the
fcaffold, he jumped upon it firft, and im
mediately laid down his head to undergo
that puiiifhment to which he was sen
tenced.
UNITED STATES.
NORFOLK, Feb. ig.
Saturday Tact arrived here from L.'fW
Me (bow Resolution, Captain Guftavus
Keltenies, in 79 days. On the sth of
December, l at . 35, 2 , long: 13, W. he
JeJ m with an Enghlh armed brig, who
hailed him, and after learning his defla
tion, fired 8 shot into him, one of which
(truck him between wind aod <vater, ano-
VCr V"*** ' IIS r 'Sß' n F> an< ' several went
through his long-boat. Thoy then board
ta him, and took from him a cask of wine,
ome of his clothes, his watch, and a great
quantity of provifioßg. Spoke, in lat. 36,
46. long, rl, 42, tfte brig Hope, Capt.
l-ole, from Baltimore, botind'to Cadiz.
Uptain Reftenies informed Capt. Cole
that lie had seen two frigates the day be
fore, which appeared to him to be'Aljre
ar.d advised Capt. Cole to [Jut into
i-.'ibon, as the fafeft method he could
P p r j *"'*;• 34. ,5m long. 68, on the
2oth Jan. fp«ke the schooner Salfr, from
ounnain, bound to Botton, out 32 days,
>n want of water.
On Su;,day arrived here the Hoop Regu-
Cat. Brown, from Guadaioupe.
we learn that the brig Julia,
P" • B,ane s r > boucd from London to this
port, had sprung a leak, an<J put into
Point Petre to refit, about the aoth of
January. At the time Capt. Brown left
therfc (the 26th January) no intelligence
was received of the arrival of any Engliih
fleet in the Weft-Indies.
On Monday lad arrived in Hampton
Roads, the (hip Anthony-Mangin, Capt.
Stafford, of and bound to Baltimore, from
Li/bon, in 62 days. Capt. Stafford has
fumiflied us with the following correct lift
of American veflels captured by the Al
gerines :
Ship Minerva, John M'Shane, Phila
delphia, owned by Wm. Bell, J 7 men.
Ship President, Wm. Penrofe, Philadel
phia, owned by John and James Craig,
11 men and a paflenger. Ship Hope,
John Burnhr.m, New-York, igiinen. Ship
Thomas, T. Newman, Bolton, owned by
Thomas Adams. Brig Jarre,'Mofes Moss,
Newburyportj owned by himfelf, 8 men.
Bfig Poilv, Michael Smith, Newburyport,
owned by Bailey and Royce, 9 men. Brig
Olive Branch, Wm. Furnace, Portsmouth,
owned by Col. Hamilton, 7 men. Brig
George, James Tay lor, Newport, owned
by Gibbs and ChSnhing, 8 meu. Schoo-
ner Dispatch, Wm. Wallace, Richmond,
owned by Gillies and Freeland, 7 men.
Schooner Jay, Sam. Calder, Gloucefkr,
owned by E. Parsons. AndCapt. Jack
son, from Malaga to America, with fruit;
all captured in O(Sober last, between
Cape St. Vincent's and the Rock of Lis
bon. The brig Marianne, Capt. Rofcut,
from New-York, very narrowly escaped
being taken, is arrived at Carthagena.
Ship Maria, Capt. Stephens, from Phi
ladelphia, and brig Morning Star, Capt.
Ncal, from New-York, are both fafe arri-
ved at Carthagena
This information was received at Lifbori
the 29th November, 1793, f rom Algiers,
under date of the 13th November, and
from Alicant, the 19th of the fame month.
The number of American captives in
Algiers, the 13th November, 1793, were
115 officers and seamen.
Capt. Stafford left at Lisbon, 011 the
10th of December, the following Ameri
can vefiels: Ships Eliza, Lewis, Provi
dence ; Governor Bowdoin, Downs, BoC.
ton ; Fame, Blunt, Newburyport; Hope,
Sheldon, Providence; Glasgow, Williams,
Philadelphia. Brigs Suktyy Perry, Pro
vidence ; Elizabeth, Bunbury,
Port i Esther and Mary, Drifcol, Balti
more j Martha, Hoyt, Poitfmouth ;
Neptune, Griffiths,Newbury-Port; Patty,
Campbell, New-York ; Walhington, De
kay, ditto ; Clinton, Alger, ditto.
Sam. Harrifon, Deputy-Consul.
Li[bon,Dec. 10, 1793.
Extraa of a letter from IJJhto, t 0 a gen
tleman in this town, dated Bee. 14.
« The risque of being captured by the
Algennes is more dangerous than at any
time hitherto, there being, by the last ac
counts from Cadiz, a;,d Gibraltar, 18 faff
of Algennes without the Straits. There
are ten .ail of Americans lying at Lifoon,
and three at St. Übes, waiting for the an
wer to our consul's application for a con-
v °y. she reason the answer has not been
[ git™, i», they are waiting the return of
a frigate they sent to Algiers. It is car
rently reported thnt the Dey of Algiers
has broken some of the articles of the
truce between him and the Portuguese.
Should this be the cale, they will keep
them within the Straits again.
" Capt. George Haynes, of the schoo
ner Patty, is fafe arrived at Cadiz, after
a paflage of 34 days from Norfolk."
Yesterday arrived in the harbor the
prize Scorpion East-India packet, captu
red by the papillon French armed brig
on the 12th of January, in lat. 27. *7
long 42. 42. in fight of the French fleet.
She failed from Madras, bound to Eng
land, and had been out four months.
NtW-YORK, Feb. 22 .
William Cooper, Esq. firil Judge of t&e
County of Otfego, who was charged of
having been guilty of mal and corrupt con
duit in the execution of his office, has, af
ter a fh-ift examination by the Legislature
of this State, been acquitted; and tht
petitions and memorials presented to the
Legislature at their last fitting, tending to
criminate the said Wm.Cooper, have been
' tiifmiffed as frivolous and vexatious.'
Arrived at Baltimore, Feb. 21.
Brig Regherflieg, Cornel,',, Hamburg;.
Sloop Industry, Homes, Schooner Rovo-,
Button, and Sloop Katv, Taber, Nor
folk ; Schooner Polly, Lunt, Port-Re
publican ; Ship Union, Johnfton, Havre
dc-Gracc.
PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 2j.
THEATRICALS.
OBSERVER* No. IV.
The Observer, being convinced, ef the
tendency of Theatric exhibitions, to mend,
and not to injure the human heart; and
having been long conrerfant with the pre
judices of feme good, and more bad men,
who are opposed to the Stage, as produc
tive of many evils to society and morals ;
—has taken, and shall continue to take,
a humble stand in the New Theatre, and
as for as he is capable, to notice the whole,
and occasionally publish his remarks. The
Observer, has not the pleasure of a per
sonal acquaintance, with either managers
or performers, and barely knows their fa
ccs by feeing them on the ftagc ; he feels
himfelf, in consequence, unprejudiced.
From the disposition of the managers,
which appears in their exertions to oblige
and gratify the public ; the observer pre
sumes, he shall not ast an ungrateful part
part to them, by observations, meant only
as hints, and proposed for the execrife of
their, and the performers judgments.
With some knowledge in raufic, fomC
acquaintance, and more affe&ion for the
Drama, he promises to notice with can
dor, as he certainly listens with delight;
and if ever he wounds, it will be, with
the purest intentions, to cure.
• The Observer is fully sensible, tliat
fomc imperfections, may occur, in effeftmg
a business so extensive and complicated as
the oversight of a Theatre, which can on-
Iy be mended, by trial, and experiments j
he IS happy to fee a number of reforma
tions have already taken place, dictated
by the good sense of the managers, and
presumes they will continue to improve as
experience shall dictate.
Ihe Observer, cannot withhold a re
mark in favor of the instrumental accom
paniments, to the vocal music last even
ing ; he thinks they have never exhibited
more accurate judgment; the relative foft
n™, ftrenglh, which true taste re
quires alternately to be adopted, on fiich
an occasion, is frequently either omitted,
or the (hades run into each other, so as to
confound*
Mrs. Warrel's voice, both a 3 finger,
and speaker, may be daffed among the
et: one ari( f articulates with
gr M pro^aetT
-rs*. Mardiall appears to poflefs, almost
aI we wish in an aftreft: But an elevation
or voice, and a more diftindt articulation,
would certainly add to her (hare of merit,
which 19 already great.—*
Perhaps Mrs. MarfhalTs voice will on
repetition, adapt itfelf better to the space.
The observer hints to her, to speak a lit
tle flower.
Meflrs. Bates and Darley, and Mrs.
Ohferver, noticed with much
latisfattion, did not, last evening, derogate
°FL t ' leir former portion of applause.
Mr. Marlhall is certainly one of the
mod gentlemanly men, that has been seen
on a Stage.
At a meeting of upwards of 120 gentle
men at Grant's Tavern, Baltimore, the
22d. inft. the anniversary of the Birth
Day of President of the United States,
William Paca, Ef<juirc, President—
the following traly republican and
patriotic TOASTS were drank :
1. George Washington, the early,
the uniform, the steady, and un/haken
friend of his country !
2. Theproclamation of neutrality which
offends, only the enemies of the peace,
and the disturbers of the prosperity of the
United States.
3- The People of the United States—
may they never in the exercise of their
rights as ment violate their duties as cili
zens.
4- The People of France—May their
arduous struggle terminate in a free repub
lican government.
5- To all nations at war, peacc, and to
ail nations at peace, prosperity.
6. May the people of every country
be permitted to enjoy that government
which they think feed adapted to produce
their Jiappinefa.
7- May the United States soon have a
refpeaable naty, and its harbours well for
tified. ,
8. A navigation Ast in due time with
out injurious and invidious diftinfiions.
9. The agriculture, tomm'cl'ce and maJ
nufaftures of the United States.
io. May those persona who have eii
crcafed the means for extending trade,agri
culture and manufactures, by reflating pub
lic credit, long be witness to the prosperity
they have produced.
''• The general May
the spirit which established it watch over
its fafety.
12. Congrefi. More v.-ifdcm or more
patriotism to those whose measureS would
unfettl: every thing ar.d fettle nothing.,
13. The State Governments. May
their citizens ever bear in mind that the
tviflom and patriotism of the Senate of lit
United States depend wholly 011 the men
they may choose to their several legifia
tures.
14. May the hleflingj of peace be con
tinued to the people of the United States.
IJ. May the man we celebrate, lung
pilot the veflel of State.
CONGRESS.
House of Reprefcntatives.
Thursday, Feb. 27.
In committee of the whole on the re
port of the Secretary of War on the peti
tion of Wm. M' 11 at ton—l his is
in favor of the petitioner, who prays to
be placed on the pension lift, and return
his commutation money.
After a variety of observations, the
committee rose without coming to a vote,
and the report wasrcferrcd to a feleft com
mittee, with inftruftions to report whe
ther any, snd what alterations ought to
take place in the pension law.
In committee of the whole on the bill
for the remiflien of certain duties paid by
Eliphalet Ladd, on Goods damaged on
board the (hip Columbia, wrecked near
Plymouth, Mafiachufetts Mr. Bourne
in the chair.
After some discussion of this bill, the
committee rose, and were discharged from
any further proceeding on the fame.
On motion of Mr. Fitzfimons, it was
voted that there should be a call of the
House to-morrow at 12 o'clock.
(To le Continued. J
A vefiel is arrived at New-York in 43
days from Cadiz—A letter to the owner
in this City, confirms the account of the
Evacuation of Toulon, by the Combined
Forces.
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROW EVENING, Feb. -:S,
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, cailed the
JEALOUS WIFE.
Oakly, Mr. Fenrieß.
Major Oakly, Mr. Whidock.
Charles, Mr. Moreton.
Ruffett, Mr, Wignell.
Sir Harry Beagle, Mr. Chalmers.
Lord Trinket, Mr. Finch,
Captain O'Cully, Mr. Bates.
William, Mr. Darley, jun.
John, Mr. Warrcll.
Tom, Mr. Francis.
Lady Freelove's Servant, Matter Wan-eft
Mrs. Oakly, Mrs. Whitleck.
Lady Freelove, Mrs. Shaw.
Harriet, Mrs. Francis.
To,let > Mrs. Row.W
Chambermaid, Miss Wilirma.
At the end of the Comedy, a new Comic
DANCE, composed bv Mr. Francis,
called
The Scheming Clown,
Or, the Sportsman Deceived.
By Mr. Francis, Mr. Darley, jun. and
Mrs. De Marque.
After which, a COMEDY, in 2 Afls,
called
The L Y A R.
Old Wilding,- Mr. Wln'tlock.
Young Wilding Mr. Cha! mers.
Sir James Elliot Mr; Cleveland.
Papillion Mr. Finch.
Mils Grantham, Mrs. Francis.
Mils Godfrey, (firil time) Mra. Cleveland.
K-ltty, Mrs. Rowfon.
Boxes, one doUor-I>, TT) three
of a dollar—and Gallery, halt a dollar,
j P~'vat litjfullua.
A Slitter of Iron
WANTED.
A MAN well fldflcd in rnKng ami
J- JL. flitting iron into Sheets, may have
good encouiagemcnt by calling 011 tl.s
1 i inter. Feb. i"JAMES LEACH,
Rh >Pi-CTH'LLY informs hit frienos and
Ihe I'uhlif, That from 'he encouragement
he ha* »rrti\ (d, from several refpe&ablr Gentle
men, he is litd'tccd nnre more, toembark in ihe
PAPhK I.INF.— and would offer his le>vires to
all thofc Gemlemen, who can place conHdrncc
in him ; and b aftnre* thole who employ him,
that th'M confide nce (hall not be mi-iplarert;—
hut i* (hall be his lonitant endeavor, to pay the
ftnft'ft a-trnron to their befl mterefl, in all ne
goeiation* whatever. He has taken tb< Cnamber,
in Si'ite-Strrrt, ov C r Mr. David 1 own fen J, Watch
Make-'s Shop. Where PUBLIC ShCURI-
Tll.S, of all kmnj, are bought and fold ; and
wher Commiifion Bufniefs of all kinds, will be
franfaAed on reasonable terms. H OUSIvS and
VKSSKI.S will be constantly expoftd lor fair, on
Coinm lit 'ii
* # * Cash paid foe Salem, Piovidence, and
Portfmouih 131 LI S.
N B If anv Gen finnan in Philadelphia, or
Ken-York. has any 11*/ineft to tranjarl at Hnjlen,
in Putter he will be happy to b: em
ploy e-J on comtniffion.
Bo.lon, Jan. 24, 1794.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the i ithday of April nexi,
at the house of John "Thomson, in Perth-
Am boy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
TH fc Lot contains elevt u acre*, on which is
an oirhiini of grafted apple trees, a well of
excellent water, a large stone c stern, and a very
commodious liable and coacb-houCe, and a great
quantity of the b#ft building stones in the walls
of tiic houie, which was formerly built for the
refiHence of 'he Governors of New-ftrfcy. The
situation of this Lot is so well known lor its
heaiihinefs and beautiful profpeft of ihc Rirnon
river to the weft of the bav, and Sandy-Hook ro
the e-ft, that a lur:her <lcfcription is urin ciffiry.
The conditions of fair will be, one third of the
purchafc money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, when a guoo and fuHicicnt Dved will
be given to th puichafcr, by Waltii Ru
th er fur D, Ffq. Prrfident of the Board of
Proprietor* ot the E.iftcrn Divifmn of New-
Jrrrfry, and the remaining two ihtrds fatitla&o
rily (ccurcJ in equal annual payments.
liy oid< r (.1 tlir U.>ard.
JAMES PARKER, RegJfter.
P:rth- Ambo\, February 5,1794. 2aw?m
War Department.
January 30th 1794,
INFORMATION >s hereby given to ;i the
military invalids of the United State*.,that the
fuins to which thev arc entitled for fix months
of their annual petition, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will hecoim due
on r,e s'h day of March 1794, w:II be paid on
the saul day by the CommifTioneis of the Loans
within the itates refpc&tvfly, under the ulual re
gulations.
t\ ot cxicu;oriand adinin'ftrators
inuU in- act with leg,*) cvidxice of
tiinr itS ff, and Jifo ol the nme the
invalids dxd, whose pension ihev may claim,
by command of ihr Prefid nt
of the Un'trd S'atrs,
H. KNOX,
Sect etary oj IVar.
The printers in the »efpe£tive fta»es are
tcqu. ftcd tn publilh ihe above in their newfpa
jk is *or the fpatc ol two mouths.
jannaiy 30
JUST PUBLISHED,
M.Carey,No. 118, Higb-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
SfNSKf the bejlfenfe in the world,
THIS little book ib written in a (tile altogether
novel, and it adapted to all capacities, at
well at to all claflcs of people, merchans, me
chanics ?nd farmers. Such a reputation has this
wo>k acquired, that it hat patted thro (hrec im
preffcoas in the raftcni (talcs, and many houie
holders deem it so ufctul at to purchase a copy j
♦or every adult in theii faailict. -Ptici 2*.
fV tUHV 4.
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the fubferiber has been duly ap
pointed AdminiAratrix on the estate of
his Excellency Johk Hancock, Esq. late of
Boft »n, in the county of Suffolk, decealed, and
has taken upon herlelf that tiuft, by giving
bonds as the law dire&t—and all persons in.
terefted, are defirtd to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK
Bolton, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
ALL persons who have any demand* against
the Eftutt of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, E r q. deceased, are requeflcd to
exhibit the fame to the Sobfcriber, Attornev
to the Adminiitratrix of said Estate : And all
perfom who ftaod indebted to laid Estate, arc
requeued to fettle with hull immediately- as the
Ast of Limitation of Actions, which is to take
place on the firft day of December neat, will l
otherwise render it neceflary for him to com- I
mcnce suits agnnft them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Adininiftratrix.
Bofton,No*. 13, 1793.
N. B The Printers throughout this Com.
monwcalth, are requrfted to insert this in their
refpeftive newspapers, and forward their ac
eounU for the fame, to J. m
NORRIS-COURT,
B»ck of the New Library, between Chefnui
and Walnut-Streets
George Rutter,
jD ESPECT FULLY informs his friends and
Iv the public in general, that he continues
car tying on the business of
and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likcwife, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
f>r doorsor window-fliutters,don« in the nioft
tlegant Ulanqei, and with difpttcb.
Order* from the onuntry will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December Jo,
|uft Imported,
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
And now opening for ale, hy
MATHEW CAREY,
AO. 118, Market Jireet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
Annua] Regilter for I 792
! European Magazine lor the firft fix
nionths of 1 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester lociet)*, 3 vol«.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on chriftianitv
; Disney's fife of Dr. Jortin
| Kittgville'j ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
"VTemty,a colleelion of eflays
Varieof Prullia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
Ruflell's ancient and modern Europe
I-anghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and BrifTon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taffo's Jerufalein delivered
SmeMie's translation of BufFon
Berwick's hiftoiy of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
Hiftery of birds
Philips'; history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindollan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Prefenr state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on mafunry
Ljvater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. fohnfon
Necker on executive power
KiflVs of Secundtts
Gallery of portraits
Volney's rnins ofempires
1 ravels
Vmllaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downinan's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington 011 materialifin and immaterialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travflleri
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murohy's translation of Tacitas
Godwin on politicaljnftice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's sketches of the history ©f man
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's di&ionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhonfe dictionary
Reveries of foKtude
Smith's theory of moral fentinients
Stackboufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. & Hid.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wunity'a wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
M,oore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruffia,Poland,See.
Cox's iraveJs into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolutiou
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherbv's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
CleghorrS diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
A r mstrong on diseases of children
Onincy'i dfpenfiatory
Edinburgh difpenlatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise oa fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicjwflbn's clieniiftry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armiet
Haller's phvfiology
Spalanzane's diflertations
London pra&ice of phytic
Bell's furgerv
Chaptal's chemistry.
dim
FOR SALE,
B r MATHF.W CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery:
Dclignrd to exhibit in a new point of view,
iis effrfts on motu!s % mdujiry, and the peace of
ociety. Some ta&s and calculations are offered
to piovr the labor of freemen to be much more
proaudrve than that ot Jlaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the n ccffriy conclufxon, that
flavcry is impolitic as well as unjufl.
Price a 5 Cents.
February <jtf
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
Si Ot KS on COMMISSION, brgs leave to of
frr his fcrviccsto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may pleafr
to favor him with their bufinefa, may depend
upon having it tranfafted with the uimoft fide
lity and difpaich.
Orders fiom Philadelphia, Bolton, or any
other part of the United Stater, will be ftriftly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
Philadelphia, Feb?nary m. i~Q4
PROPOSALS
For printing by Subscription,
A Work, 10 be entitled,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Penvfylvania State Trials.
THE want of fuffii-ient information of the
state trials of Giea-Britatn in the early
periods of that government is now lamented :
"Hi herto there hath been but one trial in the
ftaie of Pennsylvania on impeachment and
l Alj ir ° 11 " be re ß ,rtlcd » that . be.ng neg
letted at the time, the public are now left with
out fufficient information on the fubjefl of that
inaj, it is however in ths work designed to res
cue what can be collected thrreof from sources
of indifputaple authority, f c that the fame (hall
be preserved from oblivion.
Another impeachment and the second is now
depending. An officer is charged by the late
Honfeof Reprefeiitatives, who ha-h for many
years been largely confided in by this state.and
,on g b en « »he head of the financial de
partment of the fame, and it imports the citi
zens to know hisconduft, and thecircumftantes
which may be brought forward on his trial.
In this work the Editor will be cartful to
flute the facts, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers before
the public.—With this wiew
The following Terms are refpcttfully
fuimitied to the Public :
1* The W jrk (hall be primed in o&avo, with a
good type, on fine paper, and delivered to
fiibfenber, at the refpeSive place, where the
mblcriptiom are taken in, as loon at the work
shall be compleated.
11. As no eonjeflure can well be made, at to
the length el the present trial, the fiae of the
volume cannot be ascertained at this time-
But the price lhall nni eitceed that of fomeof
the laieft publications in this city.
111. It will contain all the preliminaries and in.
oriental circumstances that may occur durii. K
the trial of John Nicholfon, Elquire, Com p.
trailer-General of this commonwealth, with
' arguments of counfe lon boih fides, together
with the articles of impeachment, and the
pleas and replications at large, the several re
lolunons of the two branches of the Bate Le.
giflatti.e, refpe&ing this impeachment, and
the final decision of the SENATE refpedtinir
that officer. 6
T" which will be prefixed, „ muc h at can be
colltdlrd f,om authentic document*, of the im
peachmrm, trial, and aequital of .he late Franci.
Hopkinf<,n. Etquire, Judge of the Court ot
Admtialty for the state of FrnnMvania, during
the laic war, never before pnblifred.
No money will be required before the deli,
very ol the hook.
Subfcnpnon. will be received by Franci.
Bat.cy, No. 116, High-street; Wrigley and Ber.
riman, No. 149, Chefnut-flreet, and by the dif
ferent bookleller, in tbi, City; Jacob Batlev,
Lane after ; \ undt and Patton, Biltimote, and
by the Editor.
„ _ EDMUND HOGAN.
rl7 l pr,ce W1 " be «h»nccd to non.
lnSfcnbers. Feb. 18. (aw f
City Commissioners Office,
Tv t January 30, 1794.
IN puifuance of a Kefo, Vl ot the Common
1 Council, dated the 10th day of |anuar V ,
1794, tor dividing the City into five Dillna.
tiv line, drawn East and Weft, whereof each ol
(he City Commiflioner. is to take the fuperin
t. ndance ot one ot the laid Dillr.fli, and to be
accountable for the cleaning, good order and
regularity of the fame.
The Commiflioners have •ccordingly made
the following arrangement for the prcfcr.l:
Dijiiift the ijl. Nathan Boys, to have the
charge of that part of the Greet., lanes and alleya
from Ccdar-ftreet, to the north fide of Spruce
ftiect. r
Dijlrifl the td. Hugh Roberts, from the north
fide of Spruce-street to the north fide et Walnut
ftrect.
3&- Joftph Claypoole, from the
north tide of Walnut to the south tide of Hi Kh
ttreet. 6
Dl/riO the 4tk. William Moulder, from the
north fide of High, to the noith fide of Mulberry
ft reel 7
DiJlriQ the s th. Nicholas Hicks, from the
north fide of Mulberry, to the north fide of Vine
street.
£Xt' *8 from the Minut'i,
JOHN MEASE, CM.
N B. The carnage way in Markel-ftreet, i«
voder the charge of the Commiflioners generally,
sos the prcfent, the foouwavs on the north and
south fides thereof, arc connefird with the ad
joining Dittrifts rcfpcdivcly.
Excellent CLARET,
In iiogfVcad* and in cafc* of 50 bottle* each.
ALSO,
-A few cases Champaigne Wine;
madeira,
Io pipes, hoglhcadi and qiuricr cafli!,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, Souch Front-Ureel.
I'n. a, 1794. • M
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible fitoation,—alfo a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
hind, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of lliecity, in (ize or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23.
TO BE SOLD, ~
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
Jamaica,^
An Aa for giving validity in this IJland H
Probates to be taken, by certain Officers
in the United St,ites of America, rf Duds
to be there executed, and dlfo to Exempli.
Jications of Wills there proved.
\\T H£REAS ' since the frparation from the
v y crown of Great-Britain of the late co
lonies, now called the United States of'Ame
"r t'®» eit .' nConven ' cnccs ' live "fen to many
of his Majesty's fubjefls occasionally refidin"
in those States, for want of a legal provision
respecting the probates and acknowledgments
of deeds executed in the said States, and in
tended to operate in this island : For remedy
whereof, we, your Majesty's dutiful and loyal
U j a , ' e LlcutenJll t-Governor, Council,
and Afiembly of this your Majesty's island of
Jamaica, humbly beseech your Majesty that
it may be enacted; Beit therefore enacted,
and it is hereby enabled and ordained by the
authority of the fame, That, from and im
mediately after the parting of this adt, any
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed
whatsoever, which (hall be hereafter executed
in any of the United States of America, and
(hall be proved by a fubferibing witnefi, or
acknowledged by the party or parties, before
any of his Majesty s Consuls or Vice-ConfuU
" fld '"o those States, or before the
Chief Justice of any of the said States, or br
fore the Chief Justice or any of the Judges of
the Supreme Court of the said United States,
and certified under the seal of any of the said
States, or the seal of the laid United States,
(hall be, and the fame is hereby declared to
be, as good and effcflual in the law as if such
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed,
had been refpedively proved oracknowledsed
before a Judge of any court of record in this
island j any law, custom, or usage, to the con
trary notwithstanding Provided always,
That in all cases wherein the right or property
of any woman under coverture is intended
to be conveyed, (he (hall be examined separate
and apart from her hu(band, by the Judi:e
who attests the probate, and the said examina
tion (hall be certified in like manner as is prac
tised in Great-Britain or in this Island.
11. And be it further enafled by the autho
rity aforefaid, That the probate of any last
will and testament, taken before any officer
authorized to take probates of wills in am of
the said States, and exemplified under the
seal of the State where such probate (hall have
been taken, (hall be, and the fame is hereby
declared to be, at good and effectual in -he
law, as if such probate had been taken before
the ordinary of this island ; any law, custom,
or usage, to the contrary in any wife notwi'h
(landing.
PaJJed the AJfemblj this Ij tb daj of Novem
ber, 179j.
WILLIAM BLAKE, Speaker,
ajjid the Council, this 14th November, 1-31
G.ATKINSON, CI. Council.
I consent, this 6t/' December, 1703.
ADAM WILLIAMSON.
Vera cofm extur. G. Athinsok, See.
*#* The American Printers are requeftcd
to publifli this ast in their several newspapers.
Proposals having been pMifhed la/}
autumn, for continuing the Gazette of the
United States as an half weekly paper, in
conjunaion with a daily paper, frequent ap
plications (poflage unpaid) arc made brp.'r
fons at a dtflance for the former —but as the
terms proposed on that occajion were not com
plied with, the plan if an half weekly paher
is rclinqu 'tfhed.
p" At the Editor hat repeatedly been
fubjeßed to ptflagt on tie Lettert ofperfont,
whe have in that way applied to purchase
the Fount of Long Primer which he hat
for/.lie —those ctiho wish to buy tbofe types,
are informed that the price it twenty emit
per pound, ca/b —to be paid at their delive
ry—the fount weight about 250 ft,.
PHILADELPHIA ;
Pointed BY JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
nt&th—tf