evening ad v e
[No. 29 of Vol. V.]
The Young LADIES'
Drawing Academy,
Under the D'ircftbn of
S. F O L WE L L,
, in ast to days, be rcfumed.
HE feels a gratitude to tnofc parents
and guardians of the young ladies,
who have entrusted to him their tuition—
and as mod of thfcm are to return, he will
have an opportunity, by his endeavors for
their further improvement, to acquit him
felf of a debt, which he cfteems it an honor
to have incurred.
One or two large Rooms,
In a central situation, suitable to accom
modate his pupils, arc Wanted. Apply to
him, at No. 2, I.ietitia Court—where he
will h:" thankful to receive commands for
Miniature Painting or Hair Work, and all
kind of Drawing on Ivory, Sattin or
Paper.
January ij, 1794.
A D V ERTISEMEN T,
Virginia. Xortliumhci'jnd ( ounl.. Dec 28, 1793
FOR SALE,
A Valuable Tract of LAND,
in itn» county, containing about
Hundred acrc>, one lounh of which is low
grounds, ot excellent quality: ihr other three
fourths \b h:gli land, well cuvi-rcd with oak,
hickory and chcfnui.
T»»e filiation is plraOnt and healthy, on Yeo
ormco river, aoout three mi!« s from the Poto
insck There »soh i. a two ilory brick dwtl-
Itaghoufe, with four rooms and a paiTage on
«»ch fl .01, i'xihdive of rlolets ; a good kitchen,
and ofhei nerrtfary ont-houft s It has orchards
Of adp If bod c» ach Irers, and is well watered
by niaiiy d< iicsh tul fprings-. < The tei-m® maybe
kttpwn on apuli'-anon to rlie Honorable JOHN
HEATH, in Ptnlar). iyhia, or to the fjb.tcriber,
living en the premies.
Jan. to.
JOH V GORDON
ALL persons having any de
m,and.« dgamit the • itjie %,{ G: OiIGE
WIBLE, late o» the city ol P lilade phia, baker,
ate rrqttcilf dto bring in their accounts, properly
au'henttcatfd ; and those who are indebted, are
drfired to immediate payment.
HENRY REES, 'Adorn.ftrator.
2awsw
January 13.
Insurance Company.
Pkiladc i fiiu f January 6, .794.
NOTICE is hereby given 1.0 the members
of the Insurance Company of North
America, that the Director* have declared a
dividend (for the last fix months) of six per
CiNT,on the amount of the firlt and second
instalments ; and of* one prr cent per month
on the sums paid in anticipation of'the third
inftalmcnt, calculating from the firft day of
the mouth foPdwiug that, in \vh ch thole pay
ments were mad<.\ The dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders, or their r< prefent;»t ; ves
at the company'* officr, No. 119 south Front
ftreet, at any time after the 13th instant.
Rv otder of the Diti clots.
EBtXEZER HAZARD, Secretary.
J an - 9* w&r.im.
Treasury Department,
NOTICE is hereby given, that pTopofals will
be received at the Office of the Secretary
ol the Treasury, until the 6ih of February nex:
iHclufive, for the supply of ali Rations which
may he required during the present year, at the
ft veral puces of rendezvous hereafter mention
ed, lor the Recruirng Service, viz.
At X ? ew-Biijufwiok, in New-Jeifcy;
Ar Philadelphia, }
At Lancaftei, > in Pcnnfylvania.
At Reading, )
The rations to be furnifhed arc to confifl of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of biead or flour,
One pound of beef, or J of • pound of pork,
Halt a jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait }
Two quarts of vinegars
Two pouudl nt f,./p >P" 100
One pound of candles}
Q'
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET)
HAVE FOR SALE,
/In elegant AJfortment of
SILVER tsf PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY Jine CUTLERY,
Which they will difpoie of on the molt rea
sonable te r ms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and erery thing in the gold aud silver
way, done as ulual.
Deceiuber 24,
Sfttftfte of tit UtiifeJi
BM N'G dtlirons r.f clnling various commer
cial concerns, and rtiat all powos hereto
tore grimed relative to the lame Ihould b<- re
voked, and pui'iic nonce of it given, to pievrnt
any p> flihle miftakc ■ I, the furfciiber, do here
by indke known to all whom it may concern,
ihit all powers and iettera of attorney, ol every
"'jure and extent, granted bv me to any person
»r pirlonl, prior to the tl) day n! July last, to
■ft lor me or in my name in A«iik», are u
voked and made void.
JAMES GREKNLKAF.
NVw-Yn.k. |an. 1. 1 7q 4 . diw
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. J 18 MAR KS T-ST K F ET,
(Price a quarter dollar)
A fliort account of ALGIERS,
Crn:a>ning a dcfcnption o! the climate of ih-i
county - nt Ihe manners and etiftoms of the in.
habitant*, and ol their fcveral wars against Spam,
France, England, Holland, Vtn o:, ai:dothtr
powets of Europe, (torn the ufuruation of Bar
haroffa and the invasion of the Enipetor Ch.ir!e>
V. to the present time; with a eoncife view of
•he otigin of the rupture between ALGIERS
and .he UNITED STATES.
diw
!»i. 0.
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglVcads and in cafc-t of 50 bottles each,
A L «S O,
A few cases Champaignc Wine ;
Madeira,
In pipe*, hoofhv-ads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
J»". 1794.
N ORRIS - COURT,
Back of the New Library, between Cbefnut
George Rutter,
T3 ESPEC.TFULLY informs his friend* and
V the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the business of
Sign and Eire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-lhutters, done in the most
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country wilJ be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
NEW EOOKS.
By M. C A R E Y,
No. 118, MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuable collection of BOOKS,
imported from London in the Mohawk.
Dee. 19.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Sectnd-Jlreet,
Second door below the corner of Chefnut-flreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain artd Ireland,
A large and general AJforlment of
New Bocks and Stationary,
Which will be disposed of on the lowed terms.
"«-■ *3 niw&rftf
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, I 794.
NOTICE i< hereby given, that tlieie will
k- paid nt the 8.11 k, after the fifteenth
instant, to lie Stockholders or their reprefen
tarives, duly auihorized fi;teen dollars .»nd
fifty cent:, for each ilia re, being the dividend
declared for the last lix-months.
Cj* Terms of Subscription for this
Gaiette, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly, Subscriptions of persons
who refuie at a d'flance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advertisements of onefquare, or left, In
ferred four timet for One Dollar—once, for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line, and Subscrip
tions, veil! be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourthffrett, five doors north of the
Indian Queen.
'»w»6F.
C 5" Gentlemen, in poffi/Jion of Subscription
papers for this Gazette, are requeued to
tranfwiit them to the Editor's Office.
mwfcftf
Wednesday, January 1,5, 1794.
NOTICE.
7 his da v is puhh/hed\
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, Suntli Froui-Urct'i.
and Walnut-Streets,
Now opening for Sale,
By Older,
JOHN KEAN, Cafh-er.
AN D
For the G.izette of the Ui;ited Stj-ti s.
Altho' it is believed that there is but
little danger to be apprehended from the
declining influence of the Democratic So
ciety in this City, we can be at no loss
to discover from the conduit of thcprefent
atii-vc members, the motives by which they
were governed in bringing about its elta
blifliment.
With a view of imprefiing on the minds
of our unfufpectiiig citizens, the evils which
naturally arise out of such political iiill i
tutions, 1 mult beg you to rtpubhjk the
following excellent letter from a viper of
lalt Summer
Virginia, 27th July, 1793.
A 1 a meeting of Citizens, Hanover
County, Virginia, the Principles, Articles,
Regulations and Circular JLetter of the
Democratic Society, at Philadelphia, hav
ing been read and considered—
Refoh'cd unanimously, That the follow
ing letter be addrefied to David Ri 1 TEN
house, Esq. and others, member) of that
Society
Fellow Citizens,
sHE principles recognized by your
fjciety being among those on which our
free and happy Conditution is founded,
no true Republican will helitate to sub
scribe to them. We join you also moil
cordially in opinion, that at this criiis it is
more particularly the duty of every indi
vidual to use his utmoil efforts to remove
the prejudices and conciliate the affections
of all other fellow citizens; and that, to
obtain these most deiirabie obje£ts, it be
hoves all to cultivate on all occaiicns peace,
order, harmony arid attachment to the Con-
Jlitution; and, having the general welfare
only in view, fedulouily to avoid even the
appearance of party diltinftions. But we
cannot refrain, fellow citizetis, from ex
pressing our apprehensions that political
focietiee, branched out and assuming pow
ers to tne extent you recommend, may,
however pure and well liitentioned in their
commencement, be perverted into clubs of
faction, as has been too often experienced,
and terminate at length in Courts of Inqui
sition. We apprehend that a dread at least
of such confequer.ces will at any rate ex
cite heart-turnings and diffentions —fatal
precursors of Anarchy, and its invariable
follower—Defpotifm.
We are happy in the conviction that
the citizens of the United States, who of
their own free choice have adopted the
Con flit ut ion under which we enjoy Pence,
l.ilerty, and Independence, are fully com
petent, by the modes prescribed by that
Constitution, to correct the abules which
may and will, from time to time, creep in
to this and all other human injlitutians. We
arc happy also in the conviction, that the
citizens of our free independent Republic
can, without being driven to the necefilty
of forming themselves into societies or par
ties (proper at certain times for fuhjetts of
monarchical and despotic governments, where
the correction of abuses orcliaage of pub
lic men cannot otherwise be brought a
bout) approve and aid those whole valor,
virtue and patriot ism, contributed to pro
cure and continue to preserve to lis the
blefllngs of Peace, Liberty &Independence,
and cau by conjlitutional modes too, dis
countenance or punish their public servants
of a contrary description, and change the
whole system of government, when they
judge it proper to do so.
We are more particularly averse at this
time to the appearance of party diftindti
011s, which too often end in civil difien
tions, being deeply affeded by the horrid
massacres and devailations recently expe
rienced by our insular friends, with whom
we sincerely sympathize on the melancho
ly occalion. We deprecate the like dread
ful calamities, which will inevitably deluge
our common country, (hould party differ
ences fever the fraternal band and dissolve
the Union—that barrier which alone can
save us from the miseries of civil discord,
and its certain confequence—foreign do
mination, It is Union alone that can con-
R T I S E R.
[Whole No.. 4 8 ~.j
tinue to us l!'.e p arc and honovt of an !ti
d.per.drnt, and thehappmefs (fa ReptdlLan
' Government.
We are, with threat respect,
Ycur Fellow Citizens.
s
' CONGRESS.
In SENATE.
j •
i '"WSthiefday, J lunary 8.
(Con : fined.)
- I he following motion was made and fe
f conded:
Ordered, That the Secretary cf the
lYeafury do 1 ly before this Hcule trie fol
lowing Ratements, to w'.t.
i'nit. A Statement of the domcß.'c
debt of the United Stales, as due on the
i R day of January 1794, fpeeif/ing under
dißinft heads—
iR. liie funded debt, dißinguilhirg
the fix per ccnts, three per cents, and de
ferred stock, and in each kind of Rock,
itdtirig separately, the amoui.t created by
the affumptlon of the Itate debts.
2d. The regiltered debt.
3d. f'he debt iubienbctble to the lonil
of the United States, but which not be
ing funded ur regiflered at the Treasury,
is not entitled to a dividend.
4th. 1 he balances due to creditor Hates
and already funded (ir there be any fuc'li)
being the exccfs of the funis sefpe&iveiy
by law aiTumed, for such Rates, above the
films actually fubienbed 111 the debts of
thefaid itates.
sth. '[ he domeflic loans f r ca(h con
tratted since the commencement cf the
present government, Rating the refpeftive
times when borrowed 5c when beconiu; ir
due, together with the rate of ir.tereli. °
6th. Ail other kinds of dumeilic debts
not ipec'.aily ine-tded under the hvepre
ceding heads, for the payment of wbiiit
no appropriations have been made.
Second. \A Statement c; tlie domeilic
debt redeemed fine* the comniencenu :it of
the present government to the fii R day of
January 1794, dillinguiihing the different
ipecies debt, and fpeciiMoj" the mede
ot ledeinption, and, when redeemed it r
money, the amount of monies expended
in pureha&jg the fame.
J. hird. A genera! ftatemerit of the fo
reign debt of the United States, as c!, e
011 the ift day of January 1794, ilati i '
separately the French debt, the othet
debts contracted before the conjntetice
inent of the present government, and the
loan* contracted finee that time ; and fpe
cifying in each debt 01 loan the or. • 1
amount, the.time from wl,,i.h the iineielt
commenced, the payments alr.ariy mjde,
with the dates of the fame, and t|u pla
ces where paid, the amount yet due, ;:,.J
the refpcctive units .vhen tlie fame thail
become due.
fourth. A fpecific account of the ap
plication of the monies obtained r.pon io
reign loans contracted since the com
mencement of the present government,
to the ill day of January 1794, Rating
the amount of the monies drawn over to
America and . of thole applied in Europe,
together with the dates of such applicati
oes or drafts.
Filth. A summary Ratement of the
actual receipts and expenditures frorp the
commencement of the present Govern
ment to the lart day of December 1
including all monies received 0,1 account
of the United States, such pans of tee
foreign loans as have not beei ( !■ a-.\ r over
to America only excepted i .
the rronics'received mtder ,-nch br.;n.-h of
the ieVehueand therri us expended rce •
each appropriation, andßatil%trieb in<, s
of each fcrrfnch cf the revere remaining *
unexpended on the 31ft , .;y of Dee,:,-! -r
f 9 o j fpecifym;. fv.rh
as were 011 that day i.i th. Fix.,! 1 t »J
such as were uncolleaffl « r in the LV/ 3
of any banks, ctfcers, or cfiiir perioi
Sixth. Similar and fej...-. . e •Wtonn.rj
for the years 1791', 1-, ', {UI .J lr . ,
pcdively, fpecitying fep,.a t Jy i;,"^.,
i-
!l
!ftatewtent under each branch of the reve
nue, the monies received on account of
the revenue of that year and those receiv
ed 011 account of the Revenue ot each pre
ct !:ng year, and dating, so far as the
fame is now prafticablj, the amount of
ali monies, bonds or securities on hand on
the lit day of January 1794, with the
times of payment of such bonds or fecuri-
Ordered, That this motion lie for
ccdidenitlon.
A melfagc from the House of Repre
ienlativcs by Mr. Beckley their Clerk :
" Mr. Prelident, the House of Repre
frutatives have palled the hill sent from
the Senate for concurrence, entitled, • An
ait making an alteration in the Hag of the
United States."
" They have appointed a joint com
mittee for enrolled bills on the paitof the
House and deiire the concurrence of the
Senate in the appointment of a joint com
mittee, on tkeir part." And he with-
drew
The Senate proceeded to the considera
tion 0/ the order of the House of Repre
fentativet last mentioned, for the appoint
ment of a joint committee—and
Ordered, That Mr. Vining be the'
committee on the part of the Senate.
Ordeted, That the Secretary notify
the House of Representatives of the
concurrence of the Senate in this order.
After the consideration of the exccu-
tive buirriefs,
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Thurlday, January 9.
Mr. Vining reported from the commit
tee for enrolled bills, That they had ex
amined the bill, entitled, " An a& mak
ing an alteration in the flag of the United
States," and that it was duly enrolled.
Mr. Beckley the clerk of the House of
Representatives brought up the laft-rren
tloned enrolled bill, signed by the Speak
er. And he withdrew.
The Vice-President signed the said en
rolled bill, and it was delivered to the com
mittee to be laid before the President of
the United States for his approbation.
Mr. Vining from the committee lad
mentioned, reported, that they had this
day 1 lid the laid enrolled bill before the
Preiident of the United States.
Agreeable to the order of the day the
Senate took into tonflderation the re
port of the committee oji the petition of
Conrad Laub and others, respecting the
appointment of the Honor&ble Albert
Gallatin a Senator of the United States.
On motion
Ordered, That the further considera
tion of the " report be postponed until to
morrow.
A motion whs made
" That the following amendment be
recommended to thelegiflaturtsof tlie ref
ju .ti\e states, a 9 part of the constitution
of the United States, two-third* of both
Houses agreeing thereto.
" The powers of the government of the
United States (hall not extend to curtail
or abridge the limits of the United States,
as defined in the treaty of peace between
Great Britais and the said States, dated
at Paris the 3d day of September 1783,
nor (hall the ft3te rights of pre-emption
to Indian hunting grounds, within the rcf
pective limits after a fair treaty and falc,
Ordered, That this motion lie on the
table.
After the consideration of the executive
business
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow mcrmng.
From the Connecticut Cour ant.
THERE is at all times among our
people a curiofityto know the state of po
litics, a id especially the temper of Coti
jrrefs. This curiosity is peculiarly season
able in the present critical and alarming
state of American affairs. Much wifdoin
firmncfs and pcrfcverance have been dif
plaved bv our government during the last
lix months to keep our politics from run
ning into co.ifuSon and ruin: But these
would not have been fufficient to extricate
them t'roin the fnaies that French emifia
riet, reinforced by an autifederal facXion,
had spread for our ptaee, had not good
conduift been afßfted and crowned by pe
culiar gov>d fortune. The enthusiasm for
the French in Philadelphia, and in some
otherfea ports, waa blind and violent e
noiyb tohavjhurricd our country into the
war, if those who undertook to make a
h»ck of our foil) had not over driven it.—
T. ty hurried even tliole who fcemed to
be willing to run head foremolt into the
Tf. r, quite out of breath. Had he bufi
ntisol' privateering been conducted with
m i.e f!c:il and address, our people would
have been engaged,in very great numbers
in imfciug a piratical war upon England,
an J our country would have been involv
ed in it the power of retreating.
L lckiiy however, the French cmiflartes
made a mistake in fuppcling our people
more crazy than they really were, and in
co ifequeiice they came to their senses.—
The whole country fried out againlt pri
vateering—rhePrefident found a solid sup
port, and the hopes of the war-party i'eem
ed to be destroyed.
The eyes of the nation have been turn
ed to Congress; the unanimous appro
bation of both houses of tilt proclama-
tion, and other mcafures of the President
to preserve a fair and impaitial neutrality,
has lulled to deep the jealousy that watch
ed over America's peace, as if war being
voted out of Congrefc it was now impos
sible to engage it. The danger is not
over. Our citizens are not to be led into
the pit with their eyes open : nevertheless
tluy may be led into it. New schemes
are to be tried ; the projedl is now to trick
the co.i.itiv into the war.
It was certainly natural for our citizens
to fed good wifheu in favor of the French
I (lioutd almost disown an Ame
rican for a fellow-countrymen if he did
not earnestly desire that liberty and good
government may be enjoyed by every na
tion of the earth.—lt will certainly be
\ery great good hick if we make fhift to
keep out of the war, and one very wife
and falutaiy measure to that end is the so
lemn declaration of the President, announ
cing to the world that our neutrality (hall
be fair and impartial. It concerns the
good faith, the truth and honor of our
country, that we adhere to the spirit of
this pacific aifurance, as well as that we
abftniu from privateering and all other
acts of hostility. We have a right to en
joy our own private sentiments and to ex
press them freely ; but without contesting
the right of any persons to be as ra(h and
illiberal as they think proper, is it pru
dent, manly or even honeit, after the de
claration of an impartial neutrality on our
part, to fill every newspaper and every
circle of company with enthusiastic pro
fciTions of attachment, and even devoted
nefe, to the French cause, accompanied
with the most provoking expressions of
scorn and hatred of the English ? There
is as much true dignity for a neutral na
tion to forbear taking a fide as to inter
meddle with the quarrels of others. It
is below the American character to wrap
ourselves up in the cloak of neutrality to
(hew our scorn, hatred and 01 will to
wards those nations with whom we are at
peace. What is this but to (hew that
vrs are neutral enemies—that although our
government abstains from war the spirit
of our people is hostile : Yet such has
been the complexion of several of our
newspapers, which are not only a disgrace
to our country, but contribute all they
can to involve it in the war. That such
is their tendency, and to a degree that is
dangerous, will be manifeft to any one
who will take the trouble to reflect on the
alarming and unparalleled state of our af
fairs. Almost every European nation is
in a frenzy of desperation and rage.—
Their passions have mounted to a height
unknown in former wars. In such a
state, it is but a word and a blow. In
the bosom of America we have a faction,
the unrelenting enemies of the national
government, and now the devoted tools
of French emiflarics, who after having
vented all the abuse and insult possible on
the combined powers, are eagerly impa
tient to proceed from words to blows. Is
this a time for a nation, whose exifter.ee
would be hazarded by a war, to irritate
and insult those powers of whom it calls
itfelf the impartial friend ? It is the ally
of Holland,and Spain was its early bene
factor in a season of distress. Initead of
gratitude, that (talking horse of the
French war-faflion, fnall we go on to re
turn evil for good, and to whet all their
refentmcnt to an edge ? We may thus ac
complilh the end our difaffe&ed party
have been long eagerly purfi ing, to make
almost all Europe our enemies. When
nations by mutual scorn and insult are thus
made to hate ea«h other very heartily, the
ftionger will find it no hard matter to make
a pretence for a war upon the weaker
Our difaffe&ed ha«e done all they can to
furnifh them both the pretext and the in
clination. The public should mark it
nation,
well that tfte French emiflaries immediate
ly joined the party difaffe&ed to our own
government —filled the newspapers with
abuse of our own officers, and even dared
to attack our firft magistrate, spared no
means to vent insults on the British, and
to give it the (hew of being the- sense of
America, courted flattery for themselves
and the ruling faction in France from eve
ry quarter—a&ually engaged American
citizens to wage war on the British trade,
and tampered with justice itfelf to get ju
ries to clear the offenders. They have
even dared to threaten us with the resent
ment of France, because we did not use
the force we have not got to repel the En
glish from searching our vessels, at the
very moment when the French themselves
in the face of their own treaty with Ame
rica are using us ten times worse—and to
make the insult to this country as morti
fying as our very Jacobins can bear, they
tell us if we cannot protest our own flag,
if we have not the spirit becoming an in
dependent government, to let them know
it and they will do it for us. The French
and those known to be in connection with
them, are the loudest in their clamours a
gainst the Englifli. If we are not to go
to war, why excite those resentments
which will render it difficult to restrain our
citizens ? They demand, are we to bear
every thing and to bear it always ? It is
answered.are we to quarrel with every na
tion that gives us any occasion ? France
has certainly offended us more cruelly than
a nation with whom we have no treaty, by
setting aside the only article of her treaty,
that is worth a farthing to America. Shall
we go to war with France ? O no, by no
means—they offer for her many excuses
and palliations ; and why ftiould not we
palliate the wrongs offered us by other na
tions, fmce we are not prepared nor dis
posed to go to war ? England alledges the
law of nations as a juftification for her ob
ftrufting our trade to France. Doubtless
if we chufe to have a war on our hands
we may have one without delay, and we
have fuffered wrongs, or at least can pre ■
tend we have fuffered enough from every
one of the powers now engaged to take
our choice whom we (hall quarrel with—
observing however, that if we single out
an adversary we must expe£t the whole
gang of his associates to fall upon us.
Judge therefore, of the difficulty of
keeping America from catching fire and
turning as Europe now does. We have
a, faction always preparing tinder and
watching an opportunity to strike fire.—
There has long been a clamor against the
commercial regulations of England.—
The Algerine business has enflamed the
rcfentments of many pcrfons, and the war
party fee that the opportunity is favorable
to set fire to the train they have been so
long preparing. It is proposed to forbid
all intercourse with Britain, or to impose
heavy {hackles on the intercourse with
that country. Is any one so (hallow as
qot to fee the consequence i Our language
has long been partial, if we proceed to
make our conduct partial also, it will be
war inevitably. The success of this pro
ject is to be dreaded, but I hope if we
are to have war, we fha'l chufe it, inllead
of being thus cheated into it.
UNITED STATES.
BOSTON, January 4.
A letter from Mr. Brown, of Oporto,
to Mr. Church, at Lisbon, dated October
15th, 1793, has the following particulars:
" Last week entered this port, an English
letter of Marque, named the Oporto.
Capt. Hamilton from Liverpool, who
captured on his pafiage here an American
veflel named the Birmingham, William
Foster, master, bound from Baltimore to
Amsterdam, on suspicion of his being des
tined to some port in France—Her cargo
confilling as per note inclosed, and by
which you will please to observe, that the
three black sailors therein mentioned are
free Americans born, and notwithstanding,
they are forced to remain 011 board against
their will.
Contents of the cargo of the Americau
veflel, the Birmingham, William Foster,
matter, taken on her pafiage from Balti
more to Amsterdam, by the Englilh ves
sel the Oporto, Capt. Hamilton, who sent
her to Liverpool, viz.
2go Hogiheads of Tobacco. 145 Bar
rels, 17 Hogiheads, 13 Tierces, 490 Bags
Coffee. 90 Bags, 10 Barrels Cocoa, j8
Hog (heads Sugar. 23 Bales, 3 Punche
ons, Skins. 49 Bundles, 2 Cales, 7000
Staves, Sarfaparella.
The Captain and 3 men were conveyed
to Liverpool; the Mate, on Sailor and 3
Negroes brought to Oporto ; the two
former are already gone to America, and
the I Jegroes on board the Oporto.
The French National Convention have
ifTued a new silver coin, {ince the decapita
tion of Louis XVl.—One of which, of
Six Livrcs value, a correspondent has sent
to the Editor. It bears on one fide, the
Genius of Liberty, in an angelic form,
inferibing on a tablet " The Constitution."
Behind her are Fasces, surmounted by the
Cap of Liberty, and in her front a " Cock"
the emblem of vigilance—The words iu
clofing the device, are—" 1793 —Regm
de la hi." On the reverse is a wreath of
Oak-leaves, inciicling the words, " Six
Livres"—with a motto, " L' An, 11. Re
pullique Francoife."
c<^^2>°e@>>«£^c©eoo)oc^)oc<o>>e^s)ceo)e^yo«<ss»
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 15.
In my last of the Bth ult. I informed
you of the general rising to crufli the ef
forts of despotism at a blow, I now have
to inform you of some of the effects of
those vigorous measures. Hie Duke of
York is made prisoner, and has been con
ducted to Lisle. It has been proposed in
the Convention to expose him in Paris to
public view in an iron cage, in return for
the treatment which one of our deputies
at Toulon experienced from the Engliih,
and for the enormities committed in that
city.
One hundred and thirty deputies have
been arretted, several have been guillotined,
and others are under trial.
Valenciennes, Quefnoy, and Conde,
are evacuated. Furnes, Nieuport and
Malines are taken. Oflend is bombard
ed, and the port of this city is to be fdled
up when taken.
Our 44,000 municipalities are equip
ping each a horseman completely accou
tred. All our young men from 18 to 2y
years of age are marching towards the
frontier.
It is the intention of the National Con
vention to make all the defpote their ene
mies beg pardon, and humbly sue for peace.
The rebels in Vendee are exterminated ;
their leaders are taken. The army in that
quarter march to Toulon, which mutt soon
be retaken.
Lyons is taken, and is now called the
Freed City.
1 believe that overtures are to be made
for a offennfive and defenfive treaty with
the United States of America. I hope
they will not be found backward in this
business. Their existence as a republic
depends on our success. Gen. Adv.
A PROCLAMATION,
By the QUEEN of PORTUGAL.
Her mojl Faithful Majejly wijhing to
mamfejl on every occcjion jujlice and clemen
cy, and to give a proof of the good faith
which aduates this court in all its a3s, has
been pleased to ord'r in consequence of the ex
posed Jituationy under which the American
navigation labours, from the cruisers of Al
giers in the ocean, to give a convoy to all
the American vejfels belonging to the United
States of A merica t which may be in her dif
ferent portSy and to be so proteQed to a propor
tionate di/lance. And moreover, has direct
ed the necejfary guarda cojtas to be sent out
for theproteQion of those vejfels expected, and
for this purpose tlye Algerine privateers that
may be met with, are to be apprifcd cf this
resolution, in order that they may not make
pri%es of such American vejfels which Jhe pro
tects y as being bound to the ports of this king
dom.
HENRY.
A Correspondent observes, that if the
United States (hould prohibit foreign ves
sels from taking off their produce, one
evident consequence mult result, and that
is, all competition in the market will be
cut off—Whether this will not for evsr
operate to the injury of the agricultural
interest, must be left to the wife men of
Gotham to determine.
A Correspondent would enquire, whe
ther the (hipping of the United States, is
not rapidly encreafing—-Whether this in
crease must not neceflarily continue—and
whether this increase must not in a few
years and in the bett poftibk* way give us
that ascendancy, which to fay best,
we run the risque of poftponingtc a more
distant day, by attempting to grasp it bv
projects and experiments.
Havre, Nov. 2Continuation of Foreign In
telligence, by the Waihing
ton, from Cork.
PORTSMOUTH, Oa. 29,
Vice-Admiral Sir John Jams' flag con
tinues in the Boyne, it is therefore pro
bible that he is to convoy the trade to the
iWeft-Ilidies ; but the idea of carrying an
armament there is certainly given up for
the prefer.?.
The transports with the troops intend
ed for the Weft-Indies, failed yesterday
morning at fix o'clock with a very favora
ble gale, and mult nearly reach Oitend
this evening.
DOVER, Oft. 29.
This morning pafled by to the Downs,
about 18 fail of transports, with 7000
troops on board, under convoy of two
frigates, bound from Portsmouth to Of
tend.
The gun-boats, which have remained
here fjnee the siege of Dunkirk, left this
harbor yeflerdav mjrning for Nieuport.
LONDON, October 30.
Jnft as this paper was going to ptefs,
we received addition to the intelligence
brought by our private letters from Of
teud, an account of the raising of the
siege of Maubeuge, which it is said, was
occasioned b)' the defeat of General Clair
fait, who w?s forced to cross the Sambre
in great precipitation. This defeat of the
Aiiftrian Genera! is alluded to in other
Oftend letters.
Although the account of the raising of
the siege was transmitted to us from moil
rrfpe&able authority, the want of time
has not enabled us yet to make such an
enquiry as would induce us to pledge our
fclves to the truth of the account.
It is determined, that 140 independent
companres are to be regimented, ten eom
pinies to a regiment. The field-officers
are to be taken from old regiments, Cap
tains to majors, m:\jors to be Lieute
nant Colonels, 4c. without purchases, and
their former commissions to be fold, the
produce of which is to be applied towards
the recroiting service.
Rai/ing of the Siege of Mauleuge
This intelligence was received from
Lord Elgin's brother, the Hon. Mr.Bruce
who is at Bmffels.
The French for several days past, had
made sallies from their entrenched campat
Maubeuge. As in many of those they
had been fuccefsful,it was resolved to make
a general attack on the division undergen.
Ckirfait.
The attack was conduced with such
force and perseverance, that Gen. Clair
fait was under the neceflity of dispatch
ing an aid-de-camp to the Prince of Saxe
Cobourg, him to advance im
mediately to his afliftance
The Prince of Saxe Cobourg accord
ingly crofTed the Sambre with his whole
army.
The afliftance which the Prince furnifh
ed to Gen. Clairfait, was not so efficaci
ous asto refill the torrent which the French
poirred upon the Allied army. It was
onlyiufficient to prevent Gen. Ciairfait's
army from being cut to pieces.
After a vigorous endeavour to drive the
French back to their entrenched camp,the
allied army found it neceflary to retreat,
and recrofs the Sambre.
The railing of the siege was the neces
sary and immediate consequence of this de
feat.
The Prince of Saxe Cobourg had two
horses killed under him.
The bad news, which was transmitted
to us yesterday, by an express that left
Oftend a day after the mail; but which
we did not think proper to publifli, left
we (hould give groundless alarm, was, that
the Duke of York had been obliged to
throw hirafelf, with his whole detachment
that was to reinforce the Prince of Co
bourg, into Valenciennes, where he was
said to be surrounded by the French—
One part of this we now find to be un
doubtedly true ; the other part, it is to
be hoped will not be confirmed, by the
letters which we impatiently expect from
the Continent, by the Flanders mail now
due.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
October 16.
The Commtffioners aixl Secretary of
the diftricl of Louviere> for discovering
non-juring priests, wrote to the National
Convention, as follows :
" The genius of Liberty conduAed us
in the middle of the darkest night, to the
retreat of a non-juring priest, more than
sour-score years old, on whom we found
Jo pieces of gold of 24 livres, 65 piieces of
filvcr, of 6 livrss, stamped with the old
•mould, which formed the treasury of this
refractory obflinate man, with a gold watch
and a Manheim fnuff box, &c."
Second announced that he had found
out the means to direa balloons at plea
sure, and from tliis discovery he thinks the
enemy will receive great injury.—Refer
red to the Committee of Public instruc
tion, where Second will exhibit his disco
very.
Lacuro.be St. Michel, Commiflioner in
Coriica, wrote from Calvi, under date of
October i, that the Englilh, after having
cut off all communication by sea, had fum
moncd Baftia, and St. Florent, and were
determined to attack the latter place in
concert with Paoli, who directed the at
taek by land: but a violent storm obliged
the English to retire.—Paoli has been re
pulsed, and the Corficans have not been
more fuccefsful.
Saint Just made a report oh the law
against the English. The English, said
he, have violated towards us the Law of
Nations in an atrocious manner, and the
Decree against them is only a consequence
of that distrust with which the English
Government has justly inspired us. It is
wished that the law should extend to all fo
reigners. It is not evident that the more
numerous these whom we endeavor to in
timidate, the fewer we {hall in reality in
timidate ? We have not palled a law against
the English people, but against their go
vernment. Let England awake. We will
aflift her as friends to rid herfelf of Kings.
Since the English have maflacred the Re
presentatives of the People, at Toulon,
the House of Commons ought to tremble
for itfelf: the blow inflicted upon us strikes
against it. Thofc who wish that the law
(hould extend to other foreigners, do not
perceive that the other Powerß have not
the fame exclulive system with the English.
We ought to be in a state of revolution,
of force and of energy, against a people
who are in a state of treachery. It is by
force that we (hall conquer. Briflot de
ceived the Convention by philosophy. In
the present moment, they with to deceive
you by politics. The following is the
plan of the decree proposed by the com
mittee of public fafety.
Art. I. Foreigners bom fubjefts of the
powers, with whom the Republic is at
war, (hall be confined till the peace.
2. They (hall be treated with care.
3. Women married to foreigners, pre
vious to the law, are not included in the
decree, provided they are not fufpefted,
or married to fufpefted persons.
Chabot demanded that the conduct of
foreigners (hould be examined into, before
they were' confined, as there might be
found among them, persons of integrity,
and that a tribunal (hould be created for
that purpose. He ackuowledged that he
had espoused a foreigner, but that he was
not influenced by this consideration, and
that he was ready to facrifice nature to his
country.
Roberfpiere replied, that all foreigners
are fufpefted persons, that the most patri
otic are the most dangerous; that they
are the concealed agents of Austria, which
still keeps up a considerable faction in the
bosom of the Republic.—The 3 ift of May
was fatal to the Anglo-Prussian faction.
The law against foreigners will be fatal to
the Austrian faction. This law is rigorous;
it will without doubt involve some valua
ble philosophers, but these are few and
besides the law is so magnanimous, that it
will find apologists even in those who are
affected by it.
Barrere.—" We {hall then have a per
fect Revolutionary law, namely, a law
without any exception. The Engli(h have
committed the most attrocious offence, by
maffacreing a Representative of the People,
and the infamy of that trar.faftion can only
be expunged by the ruin of England."- -
( Loud applause.)
Several exceptions were presented to
the preeeeding law; they were rejefled,
and the plan of the decree adopted. The
exceptions were referred to the Commit
tee of Public Safety.
A Savannah paper of the 18 th ult.fays —
Information it said to have been received in
town, that the Creek Indians have commen
ced If futilities upon the Spauj/h Settlements
in Florida.
fROlt A CORRF.SPO\'D rA' f
He who is more noisy than liis neigh
bors about his religion, will soon be let
down for a man that has none. It is a
lure mark of a defiguing hypocrite, who
wortld let up tlie (hew for the reality, and
make his market of the (hew. The lame
remark is applicable, and (hould be inva
riably applied to the political hypocrites—
thole posture mailers, and makers of gri
mace, who would have the world rate the
merit of principles by the bluster of thole
who pronounce them. It is no hard mat
ter for a dozen frothy ranters to get to
gether, and, in effect to bully the still sen
sible, honelt people as much as they may
chufe. A Democratic club to make it's
resolves refpefted, Ihonld come forth—
Who arc these men that would govern us
from their dark hoi • , Are they superior
in light and information, in virtue, or cha
racter to other men ? if not, why do .they
take it upon them to di&ate as a body ?
A freeman may petition after having
elected rulers—the pie Is is free. There
is no need of combinations and clubs. Let
us know who they are, that we may judge
what they are. It looks very like aristo
cracy, for persons of relllefs fiery spirits,
to cabal together, in order that their knot
may have more power and influence than
equal laws give to as many citizens who
quietly mind their business. Marius was
president of a Democratic club in ancient
Rome, afterwards Cataline and C'odius,
were members.
SHIP NEWS,
Arrived at New-York, January 13.
Ships, Ann, Walker, Briitol ; Wa(h
ington, Silvelter, Ireland ; America,
Bright, Lisbon ; Enterprise, Nowlen,
Oftend ar.d Guernsey.
Brigs, Julia, Riley, Turks Ifiand ;
Ann, Byrne, Jamaica ; Nancy, Harrifon,
Dublin ; Charlotte, Saler, Gaudaloupe ;
Abigail, Tripe, Portfmouth,(N.H.) Eli
za, Stevenson, Dominique.
Sloop Eliza, Johnilon, New Provi-
dence.
Schooners, Aim, MolTcrat, Curacoa \
Molly, Leonard, Martinique.
Capt. Bright of the (hip America, left
Lisbon the sth November, in company
with the following American vefiels, un
der convoy of two 74 gun-ihips, two fri
gates of 36, and two brigs of 20 guns;
granted by her mod Faithful Majesty, the
Queen of Portugal, as protection against
the Algerines.
Ships, Lark, Munro, Providence ;
Wilmingron, M'Gee, Wilmington ; jo
seph, M'Cannon, Portland; Nancy, Good
ridge, Newbury-Port.
Barque Henry, Roberteau, Newbury.
Port.
Brigs, Leopard, Goudnage, Beverly ;
Nancy,Harris,Philadelphia ; Lively, May
hew, Newbury-Port ; Recovery, Hazard,
New-London; Union, Keaquick, Ncu-
York; John, Barret, Norfolk, (Virgin.)
Schooner Elfy, Wells, Boston.
Capt. Bright left at Iji/lon, the Jot/owing
Vejelt
Ship Harden, Williams, Philadelphia.'
Brigs, Sukey, Ch. R. Perry, R. Kland j
Elizabeth, M. Bombery, Portsmouth,
New-Hamplhire ; , Hoyt, Newbury
Port; St. Maria, , Baltimore.
A Britilh frigate arrived at Lilbon,
2jd O&ober. One of the officers in
formed Capt. Bright, that they had fpok;
the Ihip President, Capt. Rofs, belonging
to Philadelphia, off Cape St. Vincent,
then in pofleffion of the Algerines.
Capt. Leonard, spoke the Commiflion
(hip, N?ncy of Liverpool, Capt. Moly
lieux, of 22 guns, who boarded him
After examining his papers with polite at
tention, permitted him to proceed. He
spoke in the Mona Stratis, a fleet of Spa
nilh men-of-war, consisting of 7 fail of the
line, viz. one of 90, three of 84, two of
74, and one of 64 guns ; together with
two frigates from Porto Cabello, bound to
Cape Nichola-Mole, as he was informed
by the Commodore. Capt. Leonard fup
plicd them with sundry necefiaries for
which they paid him a generous price, and
treated him with great politeness.
To the Creditors of the French Republic.
C? SUCH persons as are Creditors of
the Republic of France, for supplies fold
to their commissioners in the Weft-India
islands, are requested to meet at the City-
Tavern, on Thursday evening the 16th
inft. to consider of the best means of mak
ing application for payment of their re
fptflivc debts.
Congress of the United States
House of Reprcfentatbves.
Wednesday, Jan. i.
After reading and referring several pe
titions—a motion was made to go into
committee of the whole, on the report of
the Secretary of State, ref'pefting the fo
reign commerce of the United States—
This motion was succeeded by another, to
suspend the consideration of this fubjeft*
till the correspondence of the Executive
with the British Minister should be printed
and in the hands of the members—this
motion was negatived—and the Hoiile
went into committee—Mr. Trumbull in
the chair.
The Debate was continued till near
three o'clock—when the committee rose,
and reported progress.
A meflage was received from the Presi
dent ofthe United States, c< mmunicating 1
a letter fromM. Genet, Minister Plenipo
tentiary of the Republic of France to the
United States, dated the 2cth December
1 793 — a, -d a copy of the proceedings of
the Legislature of South-Carolina. The
letter was read—it llat'es that the minister
had not authorized the enrolling, arming
and tipping of any force in any
part o. the territory of the United State?,
but that pursuant to authority and induc
tions from the Executive Council of uie
Fiench Republic he had delivered com
mifiions to sundry republican citizens in
the state of South-Carolina who had de
termined to expatriate themftlves—thefe
persons were to go to join the people cal
led Savages, to fight under the orders of
the French Republic against their enemies,
the Englilh and Spaniards.
A further communica*. ion on the fubjeft
is mentioned in this letter. *
1 he proceedings of the Legislature of
6outh Carolina relative to this business
were then read—by which it appeals that
a number of persons in that state had ac
cepted commissions and inftru&ions frbm
Mr. Genet—that they had proceeded to
enlist, equip and arm sundry persons pur
suant thereto ; —thefe,—-when embodied,
were to rendezvous in Georgia, and to
a& on the Spanish fettlemei:',s or tlte
Frontiers,orutherwife in conjunction with
a French fleet, in cafe such fleet fnouki
appear on the Southern coast.
{To be continued.)
NEWS.
WHEN men are in a gaping humor,
What may not be th' effc& of rumo, !
A host of learned legislators,
Sedate, commercial con:mevtjtersi
By rumor taken hy the ears,
Prove restive like a colt in geers ;
And in a buzz of agitation.
Adjourn-—the bufinel's of the nation !
Kj" Tb: continuation of Mr. Smith's
Speech to-morrow.
STATE or SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Reprefentafi ues,
Dicimber i ft, i 703.
TXTHF.REAS the Comnuflionefs ol public
▼ V Accounts, hove reported, that they can
not proceed to the investigation of the Trrafury
Accounts, res pelting lp.cia 1 Indents, without
knowing the outstanding ; mount thcieof in cir
culation :—Therefore,
Resolved, That all holder* of special Indrms
be duelled, and requireo, on or before the firit
day of November next, to deliver the special In
dents in their poffeflion lo one or other of the
Commifliom*'* of the Treifury, who arc to give
rcceiots for the fame, and 10 report to theCom
miffioncrk on public accounts, on or before the
tcntk day of November next, thr amount l»v
thcn» refpeftively received, and also to the Le
gifl<«ture, at thpir meeting m November next.
And thrft all special Indents nor rendered into
the Treasury as above 4 on or before rhe fit ft c!ay
of November next, shall be, and the fame *r C
hereby barred.
Revived, Thai public notice of this icfoUtioc
in the fevrral Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And that the Delegate* of this
State in the Congress of the United States, b* re
quested to cause this nfolution to be published
iu one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
n:ade for the expences attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to tho
s«nate for thrir concurrence.
Bv order of the House,
JOHN SANFORD DART, C. If. B.
In thi SENATE,
Dec i MB en ,1793.
Fefalvrd, That this House do concur w:ih the
Houie of Representatives in the forego ; ng reso
lutions.
Ordered, That the refoluiions be lent to the
House of Representatives.
By order of the Senate.
FF.LIX WARLEY, Cl-ik
cwtNov.Tn(t Imported,
From London, Dublin and Gl isgoif,
A d n
prninrr t"
MATHEW CAREY,
4t No. 118, Alar lid Jlreet,
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
A.II.»I»«4 .vlltcli ,»vc I t' :
\TK'i' A' HI Rt* ")!,.'! t'.f i '9-
E'i"«»pcai« M to; the tit ft t'»x
onths of I 793
G i'umi . .Lu ' .!i; aril tall of rl-c K>:mn
Mon ii, . of -Mr M:inr'u f f
Priestly <>n matter and spiri t
n c'^rlftian
Difnev's ile »f Dr. Jortin
Kt'igvill. s ancient geography
D' A '.oiis of Guy Joli
M .'.'ii v, a co'lcft on of efluys
Varieof Prussia's works
Cal n > verver—by Mackintoth
Rule! \ ancient and mode n Europe
I.augho ne's Plutarch
E!eg;t r exrra&s, superbly gift
KL-.M -t extracts of natural hiitofy
Suu-iit ,r and BrilJbn's Vorage
R->rh-»ri's voyage to Madagascar
To .'n/end's rravels in Spain
T lii'-'s Jeru«a!e:n «ie!. ; vered
S noilie'j rr.i ilariot' of BufFoh
Berwick's h'rtoj y of quadrupeds
E'i f i'i ..bridged '
Hflory of birds
F iiHps's inltui y of inland navigation
y »f i ll -nd r. <»ii
Honker's rational recieatiom
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curi«>fit:e; of literutu e, }
Whitaker's defence of que: n Mary
-i V, I volfi*
D »w's hifto * of Hindoitun
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key ro polite literature.
Imlav's di-fcr ; |>non of Kentucky
Pi efeot Ifrate of Nova-Scotia
Pre fir at (hue of Hutlfun's Bay
l'refton on masonry
Laviter on ;>i:yfi-»!
.nomy, abridged
Zimmerman's Purvey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnfbn
Necker on executive power
Ki fii of' Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volncy'i ruins of empires
Va 1 1 a .r sri v i-, with Superb engravings
Do
nail's in.*;n:cv
foiftory of American lnd^nn
Be urto'i on material'if-i and imnia crialifin
Bcc'iold*s adv ice to patriotic travellers
Builde- 's magazine
Complete farmer
Cli rudon's life of" Voltaire
Da Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Groz«er's description of" China
Murahy's tranfl.it on of Tacitus
Godwin on pol tjcal jnltice
of France, 3 vois-.
H.'ire f on inan
K linies's sketches of the history of man
LtH'ral opinion*, or the history of Beuignus
Ma'.re's gardener'r, dift'onary
N 'Me'.s memoirs of the Cromwell family
P'ayhoufe dictionary
R-rertes of fofitude
Smith's theory of moral fentrmeufi*
Stackhoule's biftory of the bible
life of Philip lid. &: Hid.
Wonder's of nature and art, 6 vols.
WmlYs wonders of the little world, called
man
Wall s on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark, Rudia, Poland, &c.
Cox'? travels into Switzerland
Rnbant's history of the French revolution
Lite of Lord Chatham
M diet's northern antiquities
Mothe rby's medical di&ionary
Or j>w's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines ot* the practice of mid-
wifery
Maoning's practice of phyflc
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mufcics
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevftrs
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Wirher : n» on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases oi armies
Hallei's phyfiologv
Spalanzane's d'ffertations
London pra&ice of physic
Boil's ftifgery
Chaptal's cWemiftry.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, accounts fta
ieri or colle&ed, employers fuitrd with
domestics, house rooms, boarding and lodging
fcenied, let or procured— foldterS, mariner's
or militia men's pay, lands and claims on the
public ; fWes in the banks, in the canals, and
thr turnpike toad : certificates granted by the
public, nd the old and late paper monies;
notes of hand, bills, bonds and-mrgages, with
or without <1 < poll*—Bought, fold, or nego
tiated at No. 8, in foutn Sixth-llicet, below
Ma'ket-ftrcft by FRAN'CIS WHITE,
Whu tranfa&< bulinefs in ih® public offiacs for
country peop'e and others, by virtue of a pow
er of attorney, Or by perlonal application.
December It. d
George Bringhurft,
COACH-M/tKKR,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fouith and Fifth
Strtet*;, adjoining the Epilcopal burying-
r tliis opportunity of returning hi:
X grateful thanks jo his former employe is,
and requeuing their future favors', as well a:
rhofe of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
fhoi telfc notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages^
uch as coachc--, c
>ari<>ts, p aetoas wuh ai.t
ithout crane neck?, coachee t chailes, kitre
sciif, UMnd.or fulkeysand cln.iis, and harnef;
.be:A), 3 v,l ' s -
o f V\ -jvv «le ;c i(»i. 7 i i t!ic nc-atcll. .mid new el
t";:ih:'»■: r.:iw p: e vaii in,; mi rh? United Stares.
And as he has a quantity of the belt fsafoned
wood by him, capital workinen, he has
not the lea(i dou'>t but he will be able to give
fat is fa ft ion to tho'.'e whopleafe to employ him.
Fie has for sale, several carriages almost
finilhed, fach as toa< hee<, an Italian windsor
chaii, hung on steel fprifigs, a ligi t phaeton for
one or two horles, am - '. lkey with a falling
Carriages fold on Commifßon,
P i.i « >lphia, Jan. 6, 1794
A 1 '
SINDREY, widow, late of Frankford, Ox
t > : townlhip, in the "State of Pennsylvania,
are dcfiretl to produce their a»-
counts t • Jacob LesHer a:?d Willi am Creed,
(in Fj at»kii>id, «lo;-c>uid,) Executors and Ad
mi'iiltrators ot the above in aider for fettle
in<. lit,
.tate, &c. arc reqtfefted to make payment to
the al ore! aid Adminiltracors, on or before the
i6"h ot March, I 794, or they will be dealt
with accoiding to law.
Frankford, Dec. 16.
Stock Brokers Office
No. 16, Wall-ftieet, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending 10 confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE &: SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, beg. leave to of
fer his fcrvircsto his friends and others, in the
line of a Broker. Those who may please
10 favor h>m with their hufinefs, may dc pend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the uimoft fide
lity aiid dilpatch.
Orders fioin Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United Stale.'-, will he flriftly
attended t». LEONARD BLEECKER.
Encyclopedia, Vol. X,
JUST PUB LIS HE D,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Book Teller, at the Stone'Harule, in Sccond
(treet Philadelphia.
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Ot A ts, Sciences, and Miscellaneous
Literature, o i a Plan «.ntirely new •
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are Jigejletf into the form if
Diitinft Treaties or Systems :
HPHIS volume contains principles of Levels,
X Liberty, Doctrine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, Hiitory of Lon-
L ' ,J, o icudc ? Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Mi-i, Muriate, Mary, Maryland,
Malonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
vlilcellaneous articles, illultrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
a number of families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the subscribers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
po/fible.
The tsnth volume o! the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
it) appearance in an iinperfcft ftatc, some ac
count ot the real'on of that imperfection Ihould
a the September last, the
rublijher had the misfortune of having his
Printing-office burnt down by a fire which
btoke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity «>f his printing materials deftroved
and among other articlos, the riounES, with
which he was printing the tables or lo
garithms, belonging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately
ebtained, he was under the neceflity of pub
' n g the volume without the:e tables; but
hopes he (hall be ahle to publilh them with the
next volume which is now in considerable for
wardnefs.
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
exprelling his grateful acknowltdgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame rime he takes the li
berty of representing to f'uch of the fubfci ibers
[ as are in arrears, the indifpenfible neceflity of
punctuality, both in takinj up ihe volumes as
early as pofHble after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the fub
(bribers having got only one, two, three, &:c.
volumes, and several volumes remain unpaid
Thus the work hangs in all its different ltages
from the commtmemunt; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpaid lays the Publilher under
very serious emharraflment, and deprives him
of the ule of many Thonfands of Dollars which
at this time would be of verv eflential service
For these reasons the Publilher finds himfelf
under the neceflity of recurring to the original
terms of nublication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those who
take and pay to the time ot publication.
December u.
ni&rt^ni
inand againil
•c .. J <>i' Mm. MARY
A'id u-'i^tvrr
indebted to laid Ef
VOLUME X. OF
BY WHICH
tawtij.
A New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be iold by
R. AITKEN,
No, 22, Market Jireet,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philad 'lphu, for promoting Uses
Knowledge, Vol. 3. Pi ice zcfin boards
r The subscribers are reqviefted to ca]
as above directed for the 3d vol. where ma;
be had, complete setts uniformly printed.
Contents of Vol. 3d.
1. An e/Tay on those enquiries in Natural Phi
losophy, which at prelent areinoft bcnefici
al to the United States of North America.
Dr. Nicholas Collin t
2. Conje&ures concerning the formation of
the earth, &c. Dr. B. Franklin.
3. A new and curious theory of Light and
Heat. Dr. B. Franklin.
4. Defcript'on of the process to be observed
in making large iheetsof paper in the Chi
nele manner, with one smooth furface.
Dr. B. Franklin.
5. Queries and conjectures relative to Mag
netifin, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
6. Explanation of a Angular phenomenon, firft
observed by Dr Franklin, and not fatisfac-
torily accounted for. Mr. R. fatterjon.
7. An account of an Earthy Subftaoce found
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls; together with
some remarks on the Falls.
Robert MXaufin, M. D.
8. Obfervatons on the probabilities of the
duration of Human Life, and the progress
of population, in the United States of. Ame
rica. William Barton, Esq.
9. A letter containing observations made at
Lake Erie, on that lingular phenomenon,
by seamen termed looming.
t&ftf
Andrea Ellicot lj{.
10. An Account of the Sugar Maple-Tree
of the United States, and of the methods
of obtaining Sugar from it, together with
observations upon the advantagesboth pub
lic and private of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rush, M.D.
11. Memoir on the use of the Thermometer
in difcoveiing Banks, Soundings, &C.
Jmathan Williams, Esq.
12. An Account of the most effeflual m'ans
of preventing the deleterious confluences
ol the bite of the Crotalus Horridiu, or Rat
tle Snake. Renjamin Smith Barton, M. D.
■3. Magnetic Observations, made at the Uni
versity of Cambridge, (Muflachuretts.J
Dr. S. Woit.m.
14. Accurate determination of the ri»ht ar
cenfipn anddeclination of Bootes, and the
Pole Star. Andrew EUicolt, Efq
IJ. Account of several Houfesin Philadelphia
struck with Lightning, on June ?t h, , 7 g '
David Rtltenhoufe, Efq
16. An Account of the effects of a (troke of
Lightning on a Houle furnilhed with two
Conductors. DaM Rittenh.nfe, ,„i Francis
liopkxnfon, Ejqrs.
■7- Experiments and Observations on Evapo
ration in cold Air. C. M j)
18. Postscript to Mr. Barton's Letter to
D-. Rittenho u re,of the 1 7l of March, i'-g,
19. New Netation of Music.
„„„ . . Mr - R - Patter/*.
*0. Observations 011 the Theory D f Water
Mi !i*> &c " IV. H'arin,
19. Agronomical Observations.
D «vti Rittcnhoufc.
23- A letter relative to a method of finding
the sum of the several powers of the Sines
&c " Rittenhou fe, [f,
ii. Index Florae Lancaltrienfis.
Henrico Mvhltnhcrr 1). J).
22. Inveftijration of the power of Dr. Bar
ker's Mill, as improved by James Kumfey
with a description of the mill. H\ Waring.
23. A Thennometrical Journal of the tem
perature of the Atmosphere and Sea, on a
voyage to and from Oporto, with e*plana
tory observations thereon.
Jonathan Williams, FJf.
24. Fi'ft memoir ofobfervations oiithe plants
denominated Cryptogainick.
M.De Beauxnis.
25. A letter, containing observations on the
ancient works of Art, the Native luhabi
tants, &c. of the Western Country.
Major Jonathan Heart.
26. An account of some of the principal dies
employed by the N'orth American Indians.
Extracted by the late Kir. Hush Martin.
27. An account of the beneficial effects of the
C.afTia ChaniSecrifta in recruiting worn-out
lands, and in enriching such as are natural
ly poor ; together with a botanical delcrip
tion of the plant.
Jamel Creenuay of Virginia.
2 o. An account of a hill on the borders of
North Carolina, supposed to have been a
volcano, in a letter from a Continental of
ficer, to Dr. J. Greenway, Virginia.
29. An Accountof a poisonous plant, grow
ing spontaneously in the southern part of
Virginia. Extracted from a paper by
r - 3<rmcs OrctHuuY, Virpir.u.
30. Defcriptton of a Machine for meaiuring a
(hip's way. F,,mu Hopkinfm. fr q .
jl. An Inquiry into the qneftion, whether the
Apis Mellifit a, or true Honev-Bee, is a na
tive of America. Btnjkmi* Smith
32. An Account of a Comet.
David Rittcnhovfci Ija.
33. Cadmus er a Treatise on the Elements of
Written Language, illuftratinp:, by a Philo
sophical division of Speech, the power of
each character, thereby mutually fi.t.rg the
Orthography and Orthoepy, with an Eflar
on the node »f teachinj the Deaf, or Suid
tad consequently ,Dumb to speak, by Wm.
Thornton. IVI- D. Honored with the Ma
gellanic Gold Medal, by the Philofophicul
Society, in December, 1792 N. B.
Cadmu* is printed in a fine 8. vol. and fold
by the Publisher hereof.
34 Observations on the Theory of Water.
Mills. iy. Waring.
35* An Improvement on Metalic Conductors
01 Lightning-rods. Mr'. Robert Pattcrjim
Honored with the Magellanic Premium, by
an Awaid ol'the Society in December 179?.
36. An easy and expeditious method of dis
sipating the noxious Vapour commonly
found ill Wells and other fubtenaneous
Peaces. Lbtncur Robinson, Ffq.
37- A method of draining Ponds in level
grounds. Jsjft Higgins.
38. Observations on the severity of the win-
ter, i 779» 1780. Rtv. Matthew WiJ'gn.
39- A Description of a nc\r Standard for
Weights and Meaiures; io a letter from
Mr. John Cooke, of Tipperary in Ireland.
Description of a Spring-Block, designed
to alfift a Veflel ill failing, fravcts Hop kin
fony Esq. Honored with the Magellanic
Gold Medal, by an Awaid of the Society
in December 1790,
December 20.
ADVERTISEMENT
FOR the benefit of thole who maybe con
cerned it may not be improper to notice,
that the United States, by their Act of the i 2 i/»
of February 1793, ordered that all Claims of
the description therein mentioned, and which
originated previous to the 4th of March 1789:
be profented at the Treasury on or before the
flrft day of May 1794, otherwiie they will
44 tor ever thereafter, be barred, and exclu
" ded lVom fettiement or allowance." And
as there may be several Creditors of the Uni
ted States, holding Certificates or other Se
curities, which to m a part of the Domcitic
Debt, and who wish to fubfcrjbe to the Loan,
they are reminded that the term for receiving
fubferiptions at the Treasury, is by the Ast of
the United States, pafled thefecond of March
Jaftyextendtd to the last day of June, 1794.
The following is an extaft from the Ast of
Limitation above referred to :
Section I. ii Be it enacted by the Senate
and House of Reprefentatires of the United
States of America, in Congress aiiembied—-
That all claims upon the United States, for
Services or Supplier, or for other cau l, mat
ter or thing, furniflied or done, previous t®
the 4th day of March 1789- whether founded
upon Certificate's, or other written ducumf ntt
from Public Officers or otherwise, wTiich have
not already been baned by any Ast of Limi
tation, and which (hall not be patented at
the Treasury before the fir ft day of May 1 794,
fliall for ever after be barred and prescribed
f'om fettiement or allowance : Provided,
that nothing herein contained, shall be con.
ftrued to affect Loan-Office Certificates* Cer
tificates of Final Settlements, Indents of In
terefV, Balances entered in the books of the
register of the treasury commonly called regis
tered certificates,loans of monies obtained ur
foreign countries, or certificates iiTned pu u
aut to the Ast, intitled u An Ast, making pro
vision for the Debt of the United States.
ADVERTISEMENT
New-Jjksey, ) r>Y virm-ofa Will to me
Suffe* County, ir. J -Ddircfted, iTued cut of
the High Court ol Chancery of New. | rfe\, at
the luit of William Shipley againlt j',,,,,,
and other?; I (lull expose to file at Publi.- Ven
due,on the sixth day ot February next, bctwe.u
the houit of Twelve and Five in the Afiemoon
of the lame day, on the Premilea, the following
defended Trafl of I and, with Its appurtenances
fitiiate in the Townlhip ol Oxford and County
of SufTex, beginning at a ChefnutOak Tree, cor.
ner of Daniel Cox's land, and lauding in the
line of a lot rntr fumy made to Thomas Steven,
son, being marked with the letter B. and then e
extending along Coxc's line (fiiflj louth fitly de
grees well fifty-fi.e chains and feventy.five links
toa Black Oak Trcicoracr ol joseph Shippeu'a
land (second) south nine degrees and fifteen mi
nutes, well ninety chains and sixty five links to
a forked White Oak Tree, marked wiih the let
ters H and B another of the said Shipper!' cor.
ners (ihird) thence north eighty degrees, east one
hundred and forty-five chains, to a poll on the
fouthcrly fide of Paquaofte-River, bring alio a
corner ol John Reading', laud (lourth) ihen.e
north thirty-nine degrees well, one hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place ol b' griming,
containing nine hundred and thirty acies with
the usual allowance for roads and high ways —
The fame Premises are within eight miles ol the
River Delaware, and there is thereon a conveni
ent Grift Mill with two pair of Stones I Saw
Mill in good repair, with afuS-.cietit ftrcam of
water for their use—a Dwelling House. Stoic
House, and fcveral tmall buildings.
MARK THOMPSON, Sheriff.
Dated 2»d day of July, 1793.
E. Oswald,
No. 1 j6, Market-Street, South,
A T tl e rrqueft of a number of friend*.
t x propoles pubiilhing The Ikdevm.de «t
Gazetteer, twice a week, viz Wedneldavt
and Saturdays—to commence in January next,
it turncient eocoeragement offers
It will be puWiflicd on Paper atid Type*
cqna! to its prefcnt appea»ance. The ftib
icnption dollars per ami.
Advertisement. not exc«-din r a fq.are.
.Will I* inserted 4 times for 1 dollar—every
continuance one filth of a dollar. Tho e tx.
ce?dng » square, i„ the fame proportion.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed «v JOHN FENNO, No. 3 ,
South F»urti-Stfert.
erxte'.r.