Cpißtltr of tbt&nitfi) States
EVENING ADVERTIS E R.
[No. 89 of Vol. V.]
For Sale or Charter,
The Ship
m^m^ANDROMJCHE,
( An American bottom)
y o bn Moore, Majkr.
IS a ft out good veflel, about two years old,
burthen 132 tons, has only made three voy
ages and maybefent to iea at a small ex
pence. She may be Teen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by appl' cation to
WHARTON y LEIVJS.
dtf
Narcb »>,
For Amsterdam,
The new fall-failing, eopper
bottomed SHIP
|g|g ADRIAN A,
daaal— K. Fitzpatrick, Mailer.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will foil with
all convenient speed. For freight or pafiage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
hoard at Walnut llreet wharf, or to
THOS. y JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, «794j
The American Brig
BURTHEN 700 barrels, with her tackle
and apparel as lhe came from sea, She is a
staunch veflel, not two years old, and njjy be
put to .sea immediately. For terms apply
GARDINER & OLDEN,
Arch Street wharf,
Who have for falc,
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
a quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and a few
calks Timothy Seed —also
Pig and Bar Iron, and Iron cart
ings, in any form executed on the
« Qwteft notice.
March 14.
Department of state,
March ti, 1794-
HAyjNG.receive.d an inftruftion ftom the
President oT the United States, to prepare,
ia pursuance of my letter to him of the 2d
of Match 1794, ttatements and reprefenta
tions on the several cases of vexation and fpo
ltation of our commerce ; I must r'queft all
perfani interested, to whom it may be conve
nient, to call upon me in the city ot Philadel
phia ; in order that I may arrange with them
the proofs and papers necessary on the occa
sion. Tbofe to whom it may be inconvenient
from the distance of their residence to call
upon me will receive thro' the mail, informa
tion of such things, as may be deficient in
their refpeftivc claims.
Edmond Randolph.
The Printers in the several states are de
sired topublilh the foregoing notice,
March 24.
Treasury of PENNsnrANiA,
February 14> 1794-
PUBLIC Notice is hereby given to all persons
indebted to the Commonwealth, tor monies
borrowed of the Trustees of the Loan Office,
caablitbed per ast of the 4th of April, 1785,
that the time is expired when the last payment
should have been made, and every juftifiable
indulgence having been granted. That unless
they come forward and pay off their refpeftive
balances on or before the firfl day of April next,
precepta will issue against all delinquents with,
out regard to persons or circumftancea. All
former and existing Iheriffs, who have money
in their hands belonging to said Office, are re
quested to bring it to me on or before the above
period, otherwise I (ball be under the disagree
able necessity of prosecuting them without dt r -
CHRISTIAN FEBIGER
P. S. The Printers throughout the State are
requeftcd to in'.ert the above in their paperi for
the information of their fellow-citi«n». d
WHERfcAS an alias subpoena has issued
out of the Supreme Court of this Com
monwealth, at the suit of Margaret Evans,
upon a petition preferred by the faici Marc a.
ret, praying for a Divorce from the bonds o-
Matrimony,entered into with Robert EvANsf
This it to gtve notice to the said Robirt, that
he be and appear at the said Supreme Court, to
Virld at the City of Philadelphia on Monday
»he seventh day of April next, at the State- House
in the said City, to answer the matters alledged
Wm. chapman,
Sherrffof Buck* County.
Mirch J, V 79- *JJW4W
' 7» fau.
Wednesday, March 26, 1794*
Just Imported,
111 the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Gla/s Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious Jizes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, Iffc.Ljc*
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
fhouldapplication be made within a few days ;
otherwise Jhe will take freight for Amjler
dam.
March I, 1794.
IMPORTED
In the Brig George and Harriot, from
Havre 4e Grace,
AND FOR SALE BY
Louis Ofmont,
A PERFECT
Afiortment of Hanging Paper,
high coloured and plain.
White ft Ik. Stockings, high drefTed and put
up Eoglilh fdfhion.
The handsomest artificial Flowers and Fea
thers.
Some Looking Glass Plates to be fold by xlie
cafe.
A few hampers of Champaigne wiie, fik
years old.
An elegant parcel of
Bearikin Muifs,
And very beautiful Silk Cloaks, which on
account of the season will be fold low, and at
a long credit-
LIKEWISE
42 pipes Madeira wine,
•diot
and a few casks of Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
He will have for Jale,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn hats, fans and camhricks, claret in
cases, a quantity of window glass well fort
cd of all fize<, and a few pair of remarkable
Looking Glaires framed, all arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
March a®.
WANTED
AN APPRENTICE
To the Printing Bulinefs, Enquire at this
Office.
JUST PUBLISHED,
Bf MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market Jireet,
iHE FIRST VOLUME OF A NEW ,
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography :
Geographical, Hijlorical, ana
Commercial Grammar;
And present flare of rhc fevcal
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
I. The figures, motions, and distances of
the planets, according to the Newtonian sys
tem and the latest observations.
2. A general view of the earth, considered
las a planet; with several ufeful geographical
definitions and problems.
3. The grand divisions of the globe into
land and water, continents and islands.
4. The situation and extent of empires,
kingdoms, dates, provinces and colonies.
5. Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, metals, minerals, natural curi
osities, seas, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
audi lakes.
6. The birds and beasts peculiar to each
country.
7. Observations on the changes that have
been any where observed upon the face of na
ture since the most earjy periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations; their
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
nues, taxes, naval and military strength.
9. The genius, manners, cuftomsj and ha
bits of the people.
AND
d—tf
ALSO,
Philadelphia, M-i "chi, *794-
OR, A
CON T A I N 1 -N
to. Their language, learning, art^fciences,
manufactures, and commerce.
11. The chief cities, ftruftures, ruins, and
artificial- curiosities
12. The. longitude, latitude, bearing-., and
distances of principal places ♦ roniPhiiadelphi;'
To uihich art added,
1. A Geographical Ineek, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Table of the Coins of all nations, and
their value in dollars and cents.
3. A Chronological Table of remarkable
eveiits, from the creation to the present time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Astronomical Part correded by
Dr. Rittenhouse.
To which have been added,
The late Discoveries of Isr. Herschell,
and other eminent Astronomers.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrcfted, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firft volume contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, besides two Agronomical Plates,
viz.
i. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world
3. Europe. 4- Asia. 5- Alrica. 6. South-
America 7. Cook's discoveries. 8. -Conn
tries round the north Pole. 9. Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway. 10. Seven United Pro
vinces. 1t Anftrian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. 13 Seat of war
in France. 14. France divided intodepatt
menf. 15. Switzerland. 16. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. 17- s P ain a " d
18. Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19 [re
land. 20. Weft-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22. Ar
miliary (phere. 23. CopernicanTyftem.
With the second volume, which is now in
the press, will be given the following Maps :
j. Russia in Europe and Asia.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
j. China.
6- Hindoftan.
7. United States.
8. British Amenta.
9. Siateof New.Hampthire.
iff. State of Massachusetts.
11. State of Conne&icut.
,2. State of Rhode liland.
,3, Sfate of New-York,
,4. State of New-Jersey.
—' ~i j. State of Peonfylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
20 State of North-Carolina.
21. TenneiTee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
22. State of Georgia.
TERMS.
i. This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
1. Subfcribcrs pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of b Tid
ing, (56 cents for boards.)
3. They iftay receive the fticc ceding volu'me
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finilhed, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The <übfcription will be raised on the firft
day of June 1794, to fourteen dollars* ex
clusive of binding.
j. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
6. The names of the fublcriberswill be pub
liflied as patrons of -American literature,
arts, and'fcierrces.
It is wholly unnecelTary to expatiate on the
advantase.to American readers, that this edi
tion poffelTe;, over every imported edition of
any system of Geog aphy extant. Tin- addit
tion of maps of'he fcveral ft ate , procured a
a very creat expend, and irom the belt mal
terials that are attainable, speaks such ful
conviction on this fubjsdt, that it would be
difrerpet to the reader's understanding to
suppose it requisite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
similar work have such maps beenever intro
duced.
The emendations and additions which are
made in this work,are innumerable,and otcur
in every page. The public are referred to
the preface for a flight sketch of a few of
them.
The publisher takes the present opportu
nity of returning his mod sincere thanks to
tliofe refp.ft.iblc characters who have favored
him with documents for improving the maps
of several of the ftatrs. He requests a conti
nuance of their kindness; and hopes that such
public spirited citizrns, as are pofieffed of si
milar documents will faror him with their
alGftance in perfecting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he has been favored, has excited
in his bread the warmest sentiments of grati
tujo which time will not efface.
He pledjes himfelf to the citizens of the
United State', to spare neither pains nor ex
penfc to render the present edition ofGuthrie's
Geography improved, deferViog of their pa
tronage.
[Whole No. 548.]
UNITED STATES.
NEW-YORK, March 2Z.
£jxtra£t of a letter from Albany,
March 14.
" I informed you some time since, that
the Senate has patted a bill for fortifying
New-York, with money out of our Irea
fury, in full confidence that Congrefj
would repay us. After much time i'pent
thereon, the bill was rejected by the As
sembly on the principle, that it was the
duty of the United States, aiid that it was
unconllitutional for us to take up this bu-
finefs.
" On a fuggeflion that the United
States would fortify our port, but that
their means were inadequate ; Mr. North
next morning brought in a bill for loaning
nioney to the United States, for the pur
pose of fecurirtgand fortifying New-York.
It is probable it will pass in the Alfembly,
and there is good hopes it will succeed ir\
the Senate.
" The bill for providing field artillery,
arms, accoutrements and ammunition, for
the life of the militia of this state, bro't
in some days since, by the fame gentleman
was after much debate, passed yesterday
by the alfembly. and 7 J, 000 dollars ap
propriated for these objects. Mr. Mat
thewr- Clarkfon, James Watson, and Ben
jamin Walker, aie appointed commission
ers for making purchales, disposing, &c.
under the direction of the Governor.—
The artillery, arms, &c. are to be I'epo
fited in the four great diilri£ts, and left
fubjeft to the orders of the commander
in chief, Until further legislative provision
(hall be made.
" This bill is of such confluence to
the state that there is no doubt of its paf
iiug the Senate; perhaps they may not be
sb liberal, and perhaps thiy may try to
put in other commiffionera, not because
those already nominated, art not perfedt
ly good and proper, but because they are
not of the right party,
or j
" The Legislature have an immensity
of business yet before them> and if they
remain here until the public objects only
are gone through, they will not rife till
the middle of April."
We find by accounts from Europe and
the Weft Indies that the present war is as
suming a most ferocious afpeft. The in
veterate hatred that subsists between the
belligerent nations is calling forth every
malignant passion, and barbarism marks
the progress of the contest. The unparal
leled depredations on commerce by the
British nation, has provoked univerlal in
dignation : and the mysterious detention
of neutral vessels in the French ports, and
the violent seizure and sale of their cargoes
at half the firft'eoft, by the comeniffioners,
is a proceeding, not to be accounted for
on any principle of pol'cy. One woulc'j
think that the nations at war are deter
mined, in venting their fury at each other,
to commence pirates and plunder all na
tions. Indeed what is thrir conduit but
universal piracy ! It seems as though they
were treading back the ftepscf civilization
and haltening to the savage state of the
9th and 10th ctnturies, wlien the feawas
covered with roving coifairs from Norway
and the Baltic. .
Philadelphia.
Lift week failed from this port the (hip
La Ville de l'Orient, of twenty four nine
pounders, and Monday Le Republican, of
eighteen fix pounders. These (hips have on
board upwards of 7000 barrels of flour, and
are to join the fleet in Chcfaptak.
A correspondent informs, (fays the Ame
rican Daily Advertiser) that about 18 days
ago, the cargo of a prize to the Sans Pareil,
was publicly fold in Charleston. The prize
was freighted at New-Providence, by the
Britilh Governor, and bound to Augustine.
Her cargo consisted of paint, blankets, gorg
ets, bracelets, and other ornaments, for In
dians. Addid to these, was a very consider
able quantity of scalping knives, mulkets,
and tomahawks!CONGRESS
H use of Representatives.
Wednesday, Jartuary 29,
The S PbECH of Mr. Smith, of South'
Carolina, in reply to Mr. M dison, on
the inject tf the Ccto n.rci.il Regulations.
/ [comtinued]
To depreciate the difciimination in our
favor in the Briti/h I (lands by the exclufi
-011 qf the produce of other nations, the
gentleman had laid the exclulion was only
a matter of form and a remnant t>[ the
old colony f\ ft em.
* 'r. 61111 th said this was no answer to
la* 'tw;s a remnant of the colony fy.
stun ' —I hat fyltem aimed at peculiar
privilege* to the national Dominions ; as
far as we, leing foreigners, iliil partake
ol u.olc privileges, 'tis to our advantage;
funpofc under that old fvftem we had
co ntinued to enjoy the right of navigating
to the lfl.uds, wouid it have been a dispa
ragement of the right that it was only a
remnant of the old colony system ? Neither
was it true that.it wasonlv matter of form
auJ of no confluence: though we can
in general (upply the islands better than
othvr nations, it does not,follow that o
thefs could not fujiply at all: The French
coionies could not get flour on as good
teirns as we can furnifh them ; yet that
article was prohibited, and in general
the Britifli colonies could not be supplied
equally well as from us, yet in the years
oi lcarcity in this country, and of plenty
ehewhere, a competition might injure us:
W.iy could not lice in particular be sup
plied from the Porttijuefe dominions in
cc with our's ?
Much reliance had been placed by the
gentleman on the disproportion of Ame
ric.rri and Britiih tonnage employed in the
commerce between the two countries } he
hal dated that in 1790 the British ton
n; was 211,000 the American only
4-• »COC : But Mr. Smith observed the
cc:np»rifon was not accurate: the rule
p:.; fired by the gentleman was entry, not
real tonnage : and as we have no direst
tonnage with the Britidi Welt-Indies,
from which entries, are frequent, the Bri
(''■ '• tonnage is swelled by that frequency
of entries, as happened in the cafe of the
Anerican tonnage employed between the
B; tithand French dominions. The house
hiving no materials before them, it was
in;poffible to pronounce how far this eir
ci:',flthnce varied the true proportion, but
it was easy to fee that it mud do it greatly!
Arguments had been-likewife drawn
from the greater pi oportion of onr tort
nage employed in our trade with Spain,
Portugal, &c.-
Mr. Smith thought the principle of
co.r.'pariion was a proof of nothing, ex-
that Britain was a more navigatrng
poxier than the nations in general with
whom we have commerce : It Was no teji
ot the fyitem of either. Tin's was evi
dent when we compared the proportion
of our tonnage with Britain, and with
Spain and Portugal, for as the latter e
qually Vith Biita'n excluded us from their
colonies, their !y (terns were eflentially the
farre : But Britain has extensive means of
navigation, Spain and Portugal slender
ntcaiis, so that while our bottoms were the
principal carriers between those countries
and us, Britain maintained a competition
wi'rtrus in the trade between her domini
on ■ and us. But^could it be proved that
this was either avoidable in the present
clrcumdances of the country, or that we
oifght to attempt to avoid it by violent or
farced expedients. The navigating dates,
in the European trade between the Britiih
dominions and the United States, prepon
derate greatly in the article of tonnage ;
Great Britain may have the advantage in
the rton-naWgating dates ; this arises, in
a great degree, from a cause which navi.
gation laws cannot enre—the fujpeiiority
of capital. The merchants of Britain
can supply on long credits, what those of our
navigating dates cannot; they have more
mam to purehafe' and export the commo
dii ie» of the south ; from both causes they
carry on a confldera'ole part of "the south
ern trade, and they make their own (hip.
ping the indrutnent of it. No means cal
culated to multiply our vefTels, can under
exidirrg circumllances, obviate this course
of things. But the remedy of violent
and forced expedients would be pernicious,
if if could be fuccefsful : It would divert
our cap'tal, in too great a degree, from
better to worse bufinefa, from agriculture,
commerce and mauuf.fturcs, to mere na-
ligation. The true conrfe, he thought,
was to fofter our navigation by gradual
and moderate encouragements, and to ex
pert from time and the increase qf refour—
<•«, the advantages, of which w<s were so
licitous. In the mean time, and till our
l-efources could b= better matured, it
would be difficult to demonstrate that it
was not a convenience to us'to have the
aid of foreign menns. Mr. Smith, to
strengthen his argument on this point,
quoted a paflage from Mr. JefFerfon's Ut
tfcr to Mr. MOl sis* theminiifer in France,
in the printed con efpondence, page 63,
in these words. " Were the merchant
vessels coming for our produce forbidden
to have any arms for their defence, every
ad v enturer who has a boat, or money e
nough to buy one, would make her a pri
vateer, our co ait would swarm with them,
foreign vessels must cease to come, our com
merce mujl be suppressed, our produce remain
on our hands, or at lea It that great portion
of it, which <we have not vessels to carry a
•way, our ploughs mujl be laid aside, and a
griculture fvfpended : This is a facrifice, no
treaty could ever contemplate, and which
we arc not disposed to make out of mere
complaisance to a falfe definition of the
term privateer."
He begged the committee to remark
that this related to a British (hip, and that
they were the principal foreign carriers of
our produce ; yet the tendency of the
gcr.tl, man\s propositions went to exclude
them from our ports.
(Speech to he continued.)
IN senate,
Friday, March 14.
The Vice-President communicated the
report froiii the Secretary for the depart
ment of war on the petition of Robert
Connelly, which was read.'
Ordered, That it lie on the table.
Mr. King from the committee appoint
ed to consider the bill, sent from the House
of Representatives for concurrence, enti
tled, " Ar. act to provide for the defence
of certain ports and harbors in the United
States," reported amendments) which be
ing adopted—
Ordered, That this bill pass to the third
reading.
The bill sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" an ast authorizing a loan of one milli
on of. dollai'6," was read the third time.
Whereupon,
Resolved, That this bill pass.
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the House of Representatives with the
concurrence of the Senate in this bits.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
prefeotatives for concurrence, entitled " an
ast making further provision for the ex
pences attending the jnterconrfe of the
United States with foreign nations ; and
further to continue in force tht ast, cnti
tied, " an ast providing the means of in
tercotirfe between the United States and
foreign nations," Was read the fccond
am-.
Ordered, That this bill be referred to
Mr. King, Mr. Mortis, and Mr. Strong,
to confidei and report thereon to the Se-
nate,
Mr. King from the committee appoint
ed on this bill reported an amendment,
which being adopted.
Ordered, That this biH pass to a third
reading.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" an ast making appropriations for the
support of the military e(tabli(hment of
the United States, for the year one thou
sand feveu hundred and ninety-four," was
read the second time.
Ordered, That this bill be referred to
Mr. King, Mr. Vining and Mr. Gunn,
to consider and report thereon to the Se-
nate.
Mr. Vining reported from the commit
tee on enrolled bills, that they had exa
mined the bill, entitted, " an adi authori
zing a loan of one million of dollars"—-and
that it was duly enrolled.
The Senate adjourned Until 11 o'clock
on Monday morning.
Monday, Mai-tfh 17,
The Vice-Ptefident laid before the Se
nate 'the report of the Secretary for the'
department of war on the petitions of
Theodore Chartier and others; which was
Ordered, That it lie on the table.
Mr,-Bradley reported from the com
mittee-appointed t6 consider the petition
of Jabez Rogers, jun. that the prayer of
the petition be granted.
The bill sent frcrr. the Hcufe of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" an ast to -provide for the defence of cer
tain ports and harbors in the United
States," was read the-third time.
Relolved, That this bill pass with a
mendmcnts.
Ordered, That the Secretary delire the
concurrent of the House of Representa
tives. in the amendments of this bill.,
A message from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk :
" Mr. President—The House of Re
presentatives agree to the amendments of
the Senate to the bill, entitled, " an ast
to provide for the detence.o£ certain ports
and harbors in the United States."
" The President of the United States
hath notified the Houfeof Representatives,
that he did on the 14th instant, approve
and sign " an ast making appropriations
for the support of government, for the
year one thousand seven hundred and nine
ty-four"—.
" The Speaker of the House of Repre
sentatives having signed an enrolled bill, I
am directed to bring it to the Senate for
the signature of the Vice-President"
And he withdrew.
The Vice-President signed the enrolled
bill, entitled, " an ast authorizing a loan
of one million of dollars," and it was de
livered to the committee on enrolled bills,
to be laid before the President of the Unit
ed States for his approbation.'
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled "an
ast to provide a naval armament"'
read the second time.
On motion,
Ordered, That this bill be referred to
Mefirs. Lang-don, Morris, Butler, Tay
lor, and Cabot, to connder and report
thereon to the Senate.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled, "an
ast making further provision for the ex
pences attending the intercourse of the
United States with foreign nations ; and
further to continue in force the ast, enti
tled, " art ast providing the means of in
tercourse between the United States and
foreign nations," was read the third time.
Ordered, That
amendment.
this bill pass with an
Ordered, That the' Secretary desire the
concurrence of the House of Representa
tives in the amendment to this bill.
The Senate resumed the fecpn'd reading
of the bill, sent from the House of Repre
sentatives for concurrence, entitled, "an
ast to prohibit the carrying on the Have
trade from the United States to any fo
reign place or country."
On motion to postpone the bill to the
next session of Congrefs—lt passed in the
negative.
Ordered, That the further considera
tion of this bill be postponed.
Tlie Senate adjourned until 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
UNITED STATES.
NEW-YORK, March n,
MefTrs. Childs and Swaine,
Please to insert the following extrafl of a
lcttir from a gentleman in Halifax, (N.S.)
to his friend in this city, dated l'ebruary
28, 1-94.
'• Business here is very dull, and I fee no
profpeii of an increase. I Ihould suppose
there mutt be a stagnation of business your
way, owing to tile embarraflinents your* go
vernment is thrown into by" the European
powers—What efFea this will finally have
we are at a loss here to conjecture ; your po
litical situation is undoubtedly a critical one ;
I hope you will be enabled to steer clear of
the miseries of war, and at the fame time
preserve an honorable appearance.
" There appears to me to be a very pow
erful combination against the liberties of mart
kind ; and it is not at all surprising that the
system of American government Ihould be
an objefl of general did ike to the enemies of
France* The found of repubhcinifm is fuf
ficient to rouse the resentment of the Euro
pean powers; it threatens the very foiinda
tion of aristocracy ; it is their greatest dread ;
their power is built upon aristocracy, and de
rives its greatest force therefrotn ; and what
ever has a tendency in afty measure to leflen
that fort of power, mult materially be an ob
e6l of their hatred. At the fame time man
kind arc of such a restless disposition, they
cannot use moderation, the unbounded vio
lence of the people is such that .while we
View the oppreflion of the great with indig
nation, at the fame time we dread the fury
of an enraged multitude—it will be a great
blclfing if Divine Providence has so ordered
it, that you may still enjoy a continuation of
peace and good order—this is what earthly
happineli chiefly depends an*"
BALTIMORE, March 12
Last night between the hours of 8 and
9 o'cjock a fire broke out in the llore oc
cupied by Mr..Benjamin Lewis, in Market
street, between Tripolet's alley and Gay
ftreet which in a very Ihort time, commun
icated to the adjoining houfesofMr. My
ers, Mr. Bull, Mr. Sweeny, and Mr. Diff
enderffer, which with the geateft part of
their valuable contents were totally cofum
ed—the rapidity and violence with which
the flames spread, had at firft a very threat
eningappearance, but by the spirited exer
tions of the inhabitants it was extinguifli
ed in about three hours.
The damage fuftaincd is very confkJerable
at the lowed computation, is upwards of
10,000 pounds. " '
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 26.
From the Knoxville Gazette, Feb. 27.
On, Wednesday the 4th inft. James
Ruflell, Robert Shannon, and William
Cox, on their way from Nafhvilc to this
place, were ambuscaded on the Cumber
land mountain, 18 miles from South Weft
Point, by a party of Indians, confuting
of about twenty five, who fired on them,
and wounded Ruflell through the arm.—
RufTell and Shannon were coming from
Gen. Robertfon to Governor Blount with
public ditpatches. That these men were
not killed. mny be counted among mira
cles. The fails refpe&ing this transac
tion are as follow :
—was
As these men pafled Obid's river, the
preceding day, they discovered a fire,
which induced them to pu/h forward a
bout fourteen miles, when they turned
off the road, and laid all night without
fire, judging they would be followed by
Indians.
TJ»e next morning they kept the woods
four miles before they (truck the road,
and finding 110 ftgn of Indians, they piii 1 -
sued their rout in confidence that they
had not been discovered ; but they had
not proceeded above half a mile,' when
they found therrifelves in a well chosen
spot for an ambuscade, surrounded by. In
dians, the mofl distant of whom was. with*
in thirty feet—they all fired, "'and many
of them threw their tomahawks, without
doing any injury, except to
ball which struck him was turned in its
direflion-by. a large nietal button, or it
would have pafled through the moil vital
part of his body. Mr. Ruflell is now at
the block house at South Weft Point, un
der the care of a fyrgeon, and it is hoped
the wound will not prove mortal.
On the night of the-tpth inft. William
Robertfon was shot as he was fitting in
his house in Holfton, about 30 miles a
bove this place. Robertfon had fume
months past given information against a
set of counterfeiters and thieves in North
Carolina ; arid it is believed that some one
of this gang has added the murder of Ro
bertfon to their other attrocious crimes.
From the Kentucky Gazette of Feb. 22.
Extract of a letter from his Excellency
Major-General Anthony Wayne, to
his Excellency Majoi-Generaf Charles
Seott! dated Head-Quarters, Greene
vitte, Feb. roth,* 1794.
" The hostile Indians sent in a flag
some time 6 nee, proposing a ceflation of
arms, and requesting me to appoint the
time and place for holding a general trea
ty—
" 1 agreed to a ceflation for 30 days,
and then to appoint the time and place
for holding a general treaty, on condi
tion, that they would surrender up all
and every of the American prisoners in
their poifeflion, to the officer command
ing at Fort Recovery, on or before the
I Ith instant.
" Whether the enemy were influenced
by a ferioua wish for peace—Or whether
this dverture was an' infidyous manoeuvre,
to gain time to procure their provision,
and to remove their women and children
to a place of more security, time will soon
determine.
" For my own part, I think it rather
problematical, from certain circumstances.
attending this extraordinary embafly.
" I have the honor to be with fineere
esteem and rega d,
" Your most obedient
" Humble servant,
" ANTHONY WAYNE.
" The Honorable
" Maj. Gen. Charlej Scott."The pretftte&ion for foreign eonrr&ions,
lo finkin 9 iy apparent in the politics of some
persons, is perfe&ly in unison with the opi
nion, that the United States owe their inde
pendence to the interpolation of an European
power.
It is however to be presumed that this fen
titnem was not in existence when the Britilh
irmv piled their muikcts on the plains of Sa
ratoga.
It 5$ worthy of remark, and a cilrious one
it is, that fomc persons are against any mode
ration of langnage or conduit in. order to
preserve peace, and equally averse from any
tncrcafe of our efficient strength for War.—
If a jwciftc fentimcnt is urged, they cry Bri
tilh a^trit: If the fame pen'on fays, prepare
a folic i'orce, a fclid revenue, they exclaim,
ariftccrat, enemytyf liberty. It is children's
pay to vent our refentmems without reilraint
and without forecaft.
To give cffeA to our. demand for repara
tion of the wrongs done to our trade, we
lLould manifeft a desire for peace, eft'e&ual
preparation for war, a language of com
plaint temperately firm, and an impartial
treatment of all nations. Whoever has done
us .wrong should be to do us right.
I'.-anrr laould explain herfelf as well as Eng-
it iil'e property detained from
—i. ottght to be diigorged.
US. L.)'
A letter from Mon'terat of the 4th Feb.
f?. =. The BritifK racket arrived hereon the
ju i! an f 1 .ir news of a Rebellion in
; i~t never such a difaiter was
Scptiau
a'i 1 The brave French
. ill b-'fo-e'thejii.
k.
arr. ; j.-.v
American Captains it Baurdeanx,
awlck's letter ft olijhed lajl cuen-
R -ty of
to M,
Bourdeaux, January, 1794.
Mr. Joseph Fenwick,
Confifl of the United States.
IATI GIF. I) by the misfortunes of our
situation, we have felt all the diftreis incident
to fu:;h a situation, and we had fufpc-iSed,
that a want of positive demand and frequent
application on your part, caused our being so
long kept iu the dark. —We had therefore
thought fit to address you, in ordet to obtain
a speedy anfwer—Vou have done what we
rtiji:: f we have seen your repeated apr
plic. u 0 the. Representatives of the peo
j: 1 ,"U Ave done we think every thing in
v: a; relative to raising the embargo,
therefore to conyince you that we poli'efs
that libe: a'ity tt> applaud merit where found,
as we would blame an opposite conduit, we
your countrymen return you Our sincere
tii-h'.s for your exertions; they have con
ceited you to us in a manner that cannot be
forjotecn.
We are Sir, veryrefpeftfully
Your friends and countrymen,
, For the Captains in Bourdeaux.
Signed, James Worlley,
Heilry Johnson, R. Bennet Forbes.
Peter Whitefide, G. Miller,
Jqjin Ofroon, . Enoch Preble,
Thomas Garter, ,J. W. Billofjp.
The drawing qf the Hotel Lottery is
compleated —and the following are the for
tunate numbers which have drawn the l'even
highefi Prizes, viz.
No. 37,5: 1 drew the 50,009 dollar prize,
and is tl e joint property of Messrs. Budd,
Prior, Wiih-tiis and Beckley, all of Philadel
phia.
No. X-,349 drew the 15,000 dollar prize,
she prof ert; of Mr. Wm. Richards Hair-
Dresser of Alexandria, Virginia.
No. 11,536 drew the io,odo dollar prize,
the proper y of Mrs. Vanbibber of Baltimore.
No. 48 884 drew the 10,000 dollar prize,
the proptrty of 2 7 gentlemen of Maryland
and Virgirr-a, who held a large number of
tickets.
No ( .14,088 drew the 15,000 dollar prize,
owned by C?es. Lee of Maryland, in a part
nership with 9 other gentlemen, who held
500 in common.
No. 46,843 drew the 5000 dollar prize,
was fold by Mr. Gideon Dennifon in South-
Carolina, no return <jf the name of the present
pofleflor.
No. 49,756 wasfold to Mr. William Da
vis of Ntw-York prize 5000.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, March 24.
From the Diary.
Reply of his Excellency Lord Dorchester
to the Indians of the Seven Villages of
Lower Canada,' as Deputies from all
the Nations who were at the General
Council, held at the Miami, in the
year 1793 ; except the ChawaUous,
Miamis and Loups.
Children,
I HAVE well considered your words,
and am now prepared to reply.
Yon ha* informed me that you are
deputed by the Beven Villages of Lower
Canada, and by all the Nations of the
Upper Country which sent Deputies to
the Generai£ouncil held at the Miamis,
except the Chawauous, Miaous, and .
Loups.
Children,
Yoh remind me of what pafied at the
Council Fire held at Quebec just before
my last departure for England, when I
promised to represent their and
wishes to the King their Father and ex*
pre fled xny hope that all the grievances
they complained of, on the part of the
United States, would soon be done away,
by a just and Jailing peace.
. Children,
I remember all very well; I remember
that they pointed out to me the line of re
paration which they wished for between
them and the United States, and with
which they would be fatisfied and make
peace. •/ ,
Children,
I was in expectation of hearing from
the People of the United States what was
required by them: I hoped I (honld have
been able to bring you together, and make
you friends. .
Children,
1 have waited long, and liltened with
great attention ; but I have not heard one'
word from them.
Children,
I flattered myfelf with the hope that
the line, proposed. in the year Eighty-
Three, to separate us, from the United
States, which • was .immediately broken
by themselves as soon as the peace was
signed, would have been minded,, or a
new one drawn in an amicable manner—
here also I have been disappointed.
Children, .
Since my return, I find no appearance
of a line remains; and from the manner
in which the people..of the United States
push on, and ast and talk on this fide, and
from what I learn of theirconduft towards
the sea, I (hall not be surprised if we are at
war with them in the course of the pre
sent year ; and if we are, ,a line mult then
be drawn by the warriors.
Children,
You aik for a pafTport to go to New-
York ; a paflport is useless in peace; it
appears therefore that you expedt we lhall
be at war with the States before you re
turn—you (hall hay; a palfport, that whe
ther peace or war you (hall be well receiv
ed by the King's warriors.
Children,
They have destroyed their right of pre
emption; therefore all their approaches
towards us since that time, and all the
purchases made by them, I consider as an
infringement on the King's rights, and
when a line is drawn between us, be it
peace, or war, they mud lose all their im
provements and houses on our fide of it;
the people mull all be gone, who do not
obtain leave to become the King's fub
je£ts ; what belongs to the Indians will
of course be confirmed and secured to
them. -
Children,
What further can I fat so yo<i—You
are our witneflfes that on our part we have
acted ip the mod peaceable manner, and
bome the language of „tl)p United States
with patience ; and I our patience
is almo|t exhausted.
Given under ray hand at the Cattle
of St. Lewis, in the city of Que
bec, on the tenth day of February,
fn the ytar of our Lord 1794.
(Signed) DORCHESTER.
By his Excellency's cortimand,
(Signed) Heman Witsius Rvland,
Secretary.
Fort Dauphin, Feb. 13, 179(4
Mr. Isaac Clafon.
SIR,
I HAVE to inform you of my lituation.
After a paflage of fifteen days from New-
York, I was captured by four Spanilh priva
teers, three or four leagues to the north-weft
of Cape-Francois j they took out three of my
men, and put on board seven armed men,
and took charge of my brig. The next day
I was boarded by an Engliih frigate from the
Mole.l demanded of the officer that came on
board to know the reason why I was sent in
to port, as my papers were so clear, and I
had nothing on board but American proper
ty. His reply was, that he did not know the
reason : that it remained with. the Captain
on board ; but that the Spaniih and Engliih
fend all American velTels into port; the rea
son why we know not at present. There are
eleven fail of us under the fame predicament.
Some fay they have taken'their cargoes with
out coming to a trial. This is our fituatisn
at present, and what will be done next God
only knows; but from the feiz ; ng of cargoes,
and long detention of veflels, we may think
that H-U has broke loose on American pro
perty; which is very mortifying to your
moil obedient
imble servant,
isd J JNO. MORRIS.
I N. B. THE public arc informed, that the
property alluded to by Tapt. Morn* In hj6
letter to me, wis bona Jul Am' ican, and
thai 1 had the whole lwt no by myfelf aiid
clerk bex'ore John Keefe, No ary Public, pr>
vious to the departure oi tLt ve icl, and ooth
the Efiglifti and French Consul's leals annex
ed ; beiides, my poiitive inltru&ions to Capt.
Morrig, was to go immediately tr. • the ) »ort
of Jcremie, a id to no other port on any con
iidcrations whatever.
ISAAC CLASON.
New-York, 24th March, 1794*
By letters from the Isle of France, of 10th
Dec. We learn, that the Ihip Hcpe, Captain
Page, belonging to Meflrs. Brown and Fran
cis ; the brig , Captain Jenka, be longing
to Meifrs. Pe'cer and Z. Allen, of Rhode-If
fcind, and the (hip Eliza* Capt. Stewart, be
longing to Nicholas Cruger, of New-York,
after being Embargoed tor fix months, du
ring which time they had their bottoms eat
out Uy the worms, were condemned by a
survey as not feeing Sea-worthy, of cowrie
were fold for the benefit of the underwriters.
ALBANY 1 ; March 17.
On Friday were executed here, Bet
and Dean, two negro girls, convicted of
having in conjnnftion with Pomp, a black
fellow, set fire, to the ltablc of Leonard
Ganfevoort, Esq. on the 17th of Novem
ber last. Pomp-isfurther respited till the
2d Friday of April next.
BENNINGTON, Match 14.
The , Rev. Dost.' Samuel Peters for
merly of Hebron Connecticut is elected
Birtiop of Vermont, in lieu.of the Rev.
Dost. Bass, who does not accept. ..
The Convention of the 1 .pilcopal church
met at Manchelter the 26th ult. when the
abow measure was adopted. .. .
Dost. Mountain, the Biihop of Cana
da, and his Chaplain (his arrived
in Quebec the firft of November last.
The Rev. Mr. Mountain a Clergyman,
and brother to the Bilhop is also in Qae
bec.
CONGRESS.
House (if Reprefentattves.
Wednesday, March 19.
Mr. New, from the joint committee for
enrolled bills, reported the following en
rolled bills, to wit "■ An ast authoriz
ing a loan of one million of dollars. " —
" All ast to provide for the defene*
of certain potts and harbours in the Unit
ed States" an ast making further
provision for the expences attending the
intefcourfe of the United States with fo
reign nations ; and further, to continue in
force the ast, |entitled, an ast " providing
the means of intercourse between the Uni
ted States and foreign nations." arid an"
enrolled resolve, authorizing the President
of the United States, to employ as dis
patch boats, such of the revenue cutters
of the United States, as the public exi
gencies may require. (
A committee was appointed to enquire,
whether any, and what alterations, are ne
cessary to be made in the ast entitled " An
ad to enable the officers and soldiers of the
Virginia lTrie on the continental eftablith
ment, to obtain.titles to certain lands, ly
ing North-Weft of the river Ohio, between
the little Miami and Sciota.
This committee consists of Mr. Heath,
Mr. Neville, and Mr. Orr.
A meflage from the Senate, by Mr.
Otis, their Secretary, inforirfed the hdufe
that the Senate have pafled a bill entitled
"An ast, making for the
support of the military eftabliftiment of
the United States"—also, the bill entitled
" An ast to prohibit the carrying on the
slave-trade from the United States to any
foreign place or country" also the bill en
titled " An ast to provide 4 naval arma
ment," with several amendments, to which
they desire the concurrence of the house.
The amendments were agreed tp. The
House then went into committee of the
whole House. on the state of
when the Gallery was (hut. *'
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
CLEARED.
Ship Le Republican, Sautel,
Sedgely, M'Dougal, Ba-badoes
Fame, Halbrook, Amlierdam
Camilla, Spiphera, Spain
Henrietta, Houston, St. Bartholomews
Morning Star, Campbell, St. Croix
Brig Nancy, Gwiu, Hamburgh
Isabella and Ann, Hanipton, St. Eufiatia
Commerce, Shurtliff, Cape Nicola Mole
Snow La Camilla, Martin, France
Schr. Sally and Rebecca, Hill, Snow-Hill
Elizabeth, Phillip*, St. Croix
Lovely Lali, Hiendry, Sailelbury
Sloop Nancy, Floyd, Cherry-Stone
Polly, Butler', Norfolk
Thomas and Sally, Mitchcl, Alexandria
The Senate of the United States have con
curred i i tfce Resolution of the HooJe, for
Ityi. g an Embargo—a®d the joint Refolu
tiofi hag bee i laid before the PrksidhhT.
In the Houfeof Rcprefentatiues of the
' United States. • '
Wednesday, , 261b March, 1794.
Rrfolvedt That a committee con filling
of fifteen members, be appointed to en
quire, whether any or what further or o
ther revenues are fieceffary for the sup
port of public credit, and if further reve
nues art neceflary to report the ways and
means : And a committee wa6 appointed
of Mr. William- Smithy Mr. Benjamin
Bourne, Mr. Grove, Mr. Oit, Mr. Madi
son, Mr.Carnes, Mr. Christie, Mr. Fitzii
moas,- Mr.' Boudinot, Mr.- Watts, Mr;
Tracy, Mr. Smith, Mr. Ames, Mr.
Gilman and Mr. Latimer.
ExtraEl from the Journal.
JOHN BECKLEY, Clerk.
Extract- of a letter from Captain Jdmet
Hodge, of the {loop Polly, of this port,
dated Port Dauphin, February 20.
" The following veflels are here as pri-
Brigs Betsey, Cozing,
A,mor», Sage,
Dolphin, Morris,
Nymph, Webh,
Schooners 'Dove, Gennen,
Lively, Sloan,
Fairplay, ,
Sloops Jacob, Phillips,
Demand, Breck,
The cloud appears to thicken over our
heads—and- if poflible, it &ems that the
United States will be involved in a war
Ten years of peace have rolled 4Vvay, while
we have been advancing in the scale of
pfofperity and happiness beyond all former
example—but alas—how uncertain are the
faireft profpe&s and enjoyments ! Aipbi
tion and avarice, the eurfe of nations, as
of individuals, more than threaten to un
dermine -the ielt foundation that ever wa»
laid for human felicity.
If the sword mult be unsheathed, let
Union reign in our Councils—& Energy
mark ourconduft—this will appal our ene
mies, and again crown with glory the
American Character.
TO BE SOLD,
And entered upon the fit ft o f May,
The noted EJlate, called
yohnfon Hall:
Lvmginthe Moha w'< country. (late of New
Yo;fc, lor too I y the feat of Sir Milium John
son, containing about (even hundred acfrca of
land, which \y of the very best Quality ; toge
ther with the (lock, and farming utcnfils. The
buildings are large and convenient* and fit for
a gentleman's feat. the payments irill be made
easy, on good (ccurity. For further particular
enquire of George Metcalf, Eft). on ihe prcm.f
es, of Silas Talbot, F.IVj at Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Brother®, in New York cr
of the ftibferiber in Providence.
Philip March 2 6
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
March 26,
Will be performed,
A TRAGEDY, Called
'The Fair Penitent.
Sciolto Mr. Whitlock
Altamont Mr. Green
Horatio Mr. Fennel!
Loth ario Mr. Moretoa
Bopano Mr. Francis
Caiifia Mrs.. Whitlock
Lavinia, Mrs. Francis
Lucilia Mrs. Rowfon
End of the Tragedy, \ churafleriftic
Pantomimical DANCE, called—
She Sailors LancLi.ly,
OR,
Jack in Distress.
To which will be added,
A FARCE, called
France
Catharine & Petruchio,
OR
The Taming of the Shrew.
Petruchio Mr. Chalmera
Babtifti Mr. Warrell
Hortcnflo Mr. Cleveland
Gruinio Mr. Mom*
Music Mafler v. Mr. Franeia
Biondello Sfe. HVrwood
R*dri*
Tayior 9
Catharine
B.anca
Curtis
New-Port 1
ditto
New-Yorjc
Philadelphia
Portsmouth
Providence
Boltoa
Hartford
Unknowa
Jabez Bowcn,
itiw&fi m
w+ ii« W«V
Mr. Bli£ett
Mr*. Morrii
Teh . Cleveland
Mb. Bate*FOR SALE,
B/ MATHF.W CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery:
Deiigned to exhibit in a new point of view,
its effc&s on morals, indujtry, and the peace of
focicty. Some facts and calculation* are offered
to prove the labor of freemen to be much more
productive than that ot slaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people eAjoy the fruits of their own
labor ) and hence the n<ce(Taiy conclusion, that
(lavery is impolitic as well « unjuji.
dtf
Price 25 Cents.
February 15,
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, JAPANN'D
PLATES, &c.
Done in the most elegant manner,* and after
the firft mailers ; likewise,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finifhed at the fliorteft notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth streets.
dtf
Stock Brokers Office,
March 4.
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b<gs leave to of
fef nift fervicesto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock. Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
upon having it tranfafted with the uimoll fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will be ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&thtf
NORRIS. COURT,
Back of the New Library, betweeH Chefnut
and Walni
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY i nforms his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting*
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-ihutters,dou& in the mod
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commifiions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
(March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
The Mimfter Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET,
The Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are requested to republifh the
foregoing notice. d
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
-i. X V_>- # JL f
OF THE
City Philadelphia',
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from adlual survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS Plan will be engraved on a plate 26
inches square ; and it will contain an ex
alt description of all the squares, ilrcets and
alleys in the City and Liberties. The fituaiion
of the several public buildings, such as the State-
House, City.Hall, Seat of Congrcfs, Churches,
Meeting-Houses, Hospital, Library and Semina
ries of Learning—of the several Banks, and of
the Federal and State Offices, will be ascertained.
The pans which are built on will be diflinguiih
ed from those that are not. The courses of the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
a& much of the Canal, intended to connett the
navigation of these two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a
view of thr (hipping in harbor, and an ele
vation of O »grefs-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In (hort, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and desirable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power :
and it (hall be compleated with the greatest
poflible dispatch, as soon as the generous encou
ragement of fubfcnbeis (hall insure to the author
ftch a sum as will be fufficicnt to defray ex
pences.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the Subfcribera names, and information con
cerning the police, population and present state
of the city.
The price to fubferibrrs will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at thfc time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Subscriptions will be gratefully received at
the principal Booksellers iu this city—and the
original Draft may be seen at B. Qaviis'
No. 68, Maikrt-ftreet, at any time until it (fg|J
be put inio the hands ot the Engraver.
Feb. 28.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Petersburg in Rufiia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 21, Walnut-street.
diw3tawtf
March 4,1794-
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE RY
M.Carey,No. 118,High-jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, 'which are full of Common
Sense, the bejl fen fa in the world.
THIS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all clafles of people, merchants, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
work acquired, that it has pa fled thro three im
preflions in the eastern Hates, and many houle
holders deem it so ufeful as to purchase a copy
for every adult in their families.——Pr i c e 2s.
February 4. dtl
War Department.
January 30th 1794.
INFORMATION is hereby given to <*11 the
military invalids of the United Slates,that the
sums to which they are entitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, ancTwhich will become due
on ine sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the CommifTioners of the Loans
within the states refpeftively, under the usual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
mull be accompanird with legal evidence of
their refpeftive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prefidrnt
of the United States,
H. KNOX,
Sectetary oj IVar.
The printers in the »efpe&ive states are
requested topublifh the above in their newspa
pers for the space of two months.
January 30,
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
fliorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaifes,kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chairs, and liarnefs
of every description, in the neatest and newcft
fofhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the bell seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion to those who please to employ him
He has for sale, several carriages almost
finiflied, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phseton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794
Just Published,
In one handsome volume, 12010. Price 5s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Second
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Corrected and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
ProfelTor of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
of Nature, and of Ecclesiastical History ;
and Minister of the Englilh Church at U
trecht.
Aliquid temper ad communem utilitatem af
ferent! nm. Cicero.
The Firjl American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality, if right
ly nnderftood, is the only basis on which
universal justice, sacred order, and perfedfc
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The view of it exhibited in this
efTay, at the fame time that it reprefles the
insolence of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages of oppreflion ; confirms, in the
most forcible manner, the necessity of subor
dination, and the just demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftinftion,
draws more closely every social tie, unites in
one harmonious and justly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. eodiwtu&ftf
m&thif
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby offered by the Ptefident and Direc
tors of the Bank of the United States, to any
person who (hall, on or before the firft day of
May next, produce to them such a plan and ele
vation of a Banking HoulV, as (hall be approved
of by them.—A plain, yet handsome front is
desired : The whole building is to be fubttantial
and commodious with as much space around it,
as the size of the giound will admit.
on chriftjanity
Disney's life of Dr. JoVtin
D'Anville's ancient geography
Memoirs of Guy Joli
Variety,a collection of e flays
King of Prussia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
Russell's ancient and modern Europe
I-anghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extratts, superbly gilt
Elegant extratts of natural history
Saugnier and Bi iflon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflb's Jerusalem delivered
Sruellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiefities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of
Preston on masonry-
Lavater on phyfiognoiny, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Nccker on executive power
Kitties of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
dam
m&t3m
Street,
A RECOMPENCE OF
The Lot on which the building is to be erett
ed, is fitnated on the Third street,
between Chefnut and, Walnut ft,eetsin Philadel
phia ; and its deinenfions are 110 feet on Third
street, and about 100 feet westward.
THOMAS WILLING, President.
JuJl Imported,
From London, Dublin, and Glasgow,
And now opening for Tale,
By MAT HEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Jlreety
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION 0F BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Regiiter for I 792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons depline and fall ps the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
▼ UUJCJT 5 I UIIIS "»
T ravels
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's hillory of American Indians
Benington on materialism and iinmarerialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chanden's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description ot China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's sketches of the history oi man
Liberal opinion?, or the history ot Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell tamily
Playhouse dictionary
R.everies of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. &: Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's \yonders of the little world, called
man
Wallis on the prevention oi diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruflia,Poland,&c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's pra<stice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's ehemiftry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qnincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's ehemiftry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diteafes ot armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's ditrertations
I London practice of* phytic M
Bell'« fnrgery
ductal's ehemiftry.
fc. ■
For Sale by the Subscribers,
MUSCOVADO Sugar ill hhds. & hb«l.
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, in pipes
and quarter casts.
Spanish Indigo.
Boston Beef, in barrels.
And a small invoice of Muslins,
NALBRO' & JOHN FRAZIER,
No. 164, South Front-street.
fmw4w
March 8.
Lately Published.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
The Hiitory of New-Hamplhirc, from ihc
Discovery of the River Pifcataqua—by Jc
rcmiah Belknap, D. D. 3 Vols. Price in Boards,
4 12 Dollars.
The Forrefter, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Clothier.
Pice, 75 Cents.
A Discourse, intended to commemorate the
Discovery ot America by Chnftopher Colum
bus; delivered at the request of the Hiitoncal
Society in Maflachufetts, Oflober 23d, *792,
being the completion of the Thud Ccniury,
since that memorable event. To which are
added, Four J)i(Tertations, couriered with the
fubjett—By the fame author. Price, 50 Cents.
Marchi7. tuth&^vy*
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nthday of April next,
at the house of John Thomson, in Perth-
Amb oy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
r I I hE Lot contains eleven acres, on which is
.1 an orchard of grafted apple t»ets, a well of
excellent water, a large (tone c fterti, and a veiy
commodious ftablc and coach-houfc, and a great
quantity ot the best building (tones in the walls
of the house, which was formerly built for the
residence of the Governors of New-Jersey. The
iituation of this Lot is so well known for it«
healthmefs and beautiful profpeft of the Rariion
river to the weft of the bav, and Sandy-Hook to
the e«ift, that a further description is unneceJTary.
The conditions of sale will be, one third of the
purcbafe money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, when a good and fuflficirn'. Deed will
be given to the purcbafer, by Waltkr Ru
th er FUR d, Esq. President of the Board of
Proprietors of the Eastern Division of New-
Jersey, and the remaining two thirds fatisfa&o
rily secured in equal annual payments.
Bv order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Rcgifter.
Perth-Ambox. February 1794. 2*w2m
Excellent CLARET,
In ho»f!.eads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine j
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogfhcads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front itreet.
Jan. s, 1794.
dtr
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street:—
A few Bales of Rudia Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity o! Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Brimstone,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. 20. 31aw6w
Advertisement.
WI LL be exposed to public Tale, on Se
venth cay the 29th of this instant, at the late
dwelling house ol Richard Cheyney, deceas
ed, a plantation,firuate in the Township of
Thornbury in the county of Delaware, and
lying on Chester creek, containing 80 acres,
15 ot which are good watered meadow, and
more may be made at a (mall expence, about
25 acres of wood land, and the remainder is
good fertile land well supplied with water.—
.There are on the premifes,a good stone,
dwelling House and kitchen, an excellent
garden, an orchard ot 25 good bearing trees
a good barn cellar'd under, a few-mill, and
an excellent feat for a grift ©r merchant mill
with a fuffictency of water.
Likewise a tract of wood land ajoinirg the
above—lmmediate poiTeifion will b« given to
the purchaser—-The sale to begin at 2 o'clock
on said day. where attendance will be given,
and conditions made known by
JOHN CHEYNEY, ?
WILLIAM CHEYNEY, S CCUt ° rs *
March, 19
. d4t.
I NFORMATION
Is Requested
By the Ediior, of a Mr. William Kilton, a
Brick Layer, who went from New-England
and was at Philadelphia Ift Augult, 1793,
fmce which time nothing has been heard of
him—Great relief will be afforded to his aged
parents and friends, by any intelligence con
cerning him—as they are fearful that he has
fallen in the late general calamity.
March 22.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENJIO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street
d4t.