d thr lltuMt
A N D
EVE
[No. 2 i of Vol. ,V.]
Excellent CLARET,
In hogsheads and tn cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipca, hotheads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111, South Front-llreet
Jan. 2, 1794
NOTICE.
BEI N T G desirous of closing various commer
cial concerns, and that all powers hereto
fore granted relative to the fame should be re
voked,'and public notice of it given, to prevent
any polfible miftakc ; I, the fubferiber, do here
by make known to all whom it may concern,
that all powers and letters of attorney, ot every
nature and extent, granted by ine to any person
or persons, prior to the ift day of July lad, to
a£l tor me or in my name ia America, aie re
voked and made void.
JAMES GREEXLEAF.
d i w
New-York, Jan. 1, 1794
NOR RIS-OOU RT,
Back of the New Librarv, between Chefnut
and Walnut-Street-
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the hufmefs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-mutters, done in the mod
elegant manner, and with diipatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
Just published,
Aod to be fold by Stewart & Cochran,
No. 34, South Second-street,
THE
United States Register,
For the Year 1794;
Containing, betides accurate and complete
iirtfs of al) the Officers in the general, and the
principal Officers in the particular govern
ments', a variety of Information, ufelul for all
clafles. tf
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Second-Jlrce!,
Seconddoor below the corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general AJforlment of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be disposed of on the lowed term?.
Dec. 23. mw&ftf
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths & Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortment ef
SILVER y PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY fine CUTLERY,
Which they tr«H dispose of on the in oft rea
sonable terms. Deviccs in haiT, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and silver
v. ay, done as u'.nal,
December 24.
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
By M. CARE Y,
No. 118, MARKET-STREET ;
A large and valuable colle&ion of BOOKS,
imported from London in the Mohawk.
Dec. 19.
E. Oswald,
No. 156, Market-Street, South,
\ T the request of a number of friend*,
±\. proposes publvftring The Ikdependemt
Gazetteer, twice a week, viz. Wednefdavs
and Saturdays—tocommence in January next,
if fufiicient encoeragement offers
It will be publiflietl on Paper and Types
equal to its present appearance. The lub-
will be inlerted 4 times for i dollar—every
contir.uancc one filth of a dollar. Those ex
ceeding a square, in the fame proportion.
N I N G A
TO THE PUBLIC.
''PHE undernamed committee, appointed Lv
1 " THE SOCIETY for the INSTITU
TION and SUPPORT ot FIRST-DAY or
SUNDAY SCHOOLS in the city of Philadel
phia and the diitiift of Southwaik and the
Northern Libtrties," to solicit fuuher fubferip
tions lor the support of the schools which the
(aid society have cftabiithed, take the liberty to
rcprefent to their fellow citizen*—
That, although the fehool? were fufperided
during the period of the late avrlul calamity
with which our city and fubtiibs have been af
flifled, they aie now again opened ior the lice
admillion and education of poor children.
That, the necilfity and rcaTons for the eflab
lifhment of thefc schools arc htcre;ifed, from ibe
Circumftauce of the late distress having left a
number of Orphans deilitute of all the means
of education, favc what the hand of bcnevolencc
may adminiiler.
7'hat, former < xoerience has, mod pleafmglv,
verified the fondeft hopes ot the friends of this
inilitution, with regard to the piogrefs and ad
vancement of the children, who hav« heretofore
been under its care, in the ufeful branches of
education which it has afforded. Referring to
this fa£t, and to the address to the public, on
this fubjeft, publilhed in the newspapers of this
city in the third month lall, when about eight
hundred and twenty children of both sexes had
partaken of the benefits afforded by the society,
and about three hundred and twenty more were
th-n a&ually receiving inftiufliou in their
schools, it now onlv icmains to be observed,
that the funds of the society are greatly infufli
cient to carry on their benevolent drfigns, and
that the committee formerly appointed to solicit
fubferiptions, conceived it necelTary to decline
their applications to their fellow-citizens for
their assistance in favor of thefc fchdbls, in order
that thtic might be co inierrupiic/n from rhem
to the folicitatioDs then made in hehalf ol their
unfortunate brethren from Cape-Francois.
The public aid is now therefore earncflly fo
liated to support a charitable eftablilhment, cal
culated upon the principles of public and pri
vate good. The annual fubfeription for a mem
ber is but One Dollar ; and it is presumed that
so fnidll a sum per annum cannot be better dik
posed of, by those who can afloid it, than by
belfoWfng it as the price of the diffufion of ufctitl
knowledge among the pbor and lriendlcfs.
Subfcnptiptfs and donations will be gratefully
received by the undernamed com mil toe ou be
half of the society:
Peter Tbompfcn,
Thoa>ai'&«P. Cope,
]«fcph' Pi ice,
Edward Pols,
James Hard-c,
V/illia#) lii'ii >s,
Benjamin Say,
Nathaniel Falconer,
Francis Bailey,
Jcfl<i Sh'arpkfs,
Samuel Scottcn,
Peter B^iker,
Philadelphia, Nov. 21, 1793.
The Stockholdersof the
BANK of the UNITED STATES, are hereby
informed, that according to the ftaiuteof incor
poration, a General Elc&ion for Twenty-five
Direflors, will be held at the Bank of the Uni
ted States, in the City of Philadelphia, on Mon
day the 6th of January next/ at ten o'clock in
the forenoon.
And puifnant to the eleventh fcftinn of the
bye-laws, the Stockholders of the said Bank, are
hereby notified,to affcmble in general meeting,
at the fame place, on Tucfday the 7th day of
January next, at five o'clock in the evening.
B) Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cafiiier.
SECOND Fundamental Article—Not more
than three.fourths ol the Diiettors in office, ex
clusive of the picfident, {hall be eligible lor the
next succeeding year : But the Dire&or, who
fhali be Prcfident at the time ol an cle&ion, may
alw ays be rc-cle£led.
mw&rftf
Ai a meeting ot the Direfctors ot the lufurancc
Company of North America, Nov. 25, 1793,
RcfolvcA,
THAT no transfer of stock be made 011 the
books ot this office between the 15th day
ot June and the firft Monday in July, and be
tween the 15'h day of December and the firft
Monday ®f January followiug, in cach year.
Extaft from the minutes,
Fbene7.fr Hazard, Secrciary
Cj" Terms of Subscription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—to le
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of perfoni
■who refde at a distance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advertisements of onefquare, or left, in
fertedfour timet for One Dollar—oner, for
Fist v Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line, and Subscrip
tions, mill be gratefully received at the Office
in South Yourth-Jlreet, five doors north of the
Indian Sh'Cfn.
D V E
Monday, January 6, i 794.
Fbcmzei l arge,
JjCoh CaufTman,
Janu s Todd,'
Jofcph James,
Jonathan Fcnrofc,
Gtorge Meade,
John Perot,
John M'Crcc,
Rohci t Kiilllon,
Thomas Armat,
George William?,
J-"- -
mw&f »o 6 Jan.
INSTRUCTIONS
From the Conflituted Authorities of France,
To CITIZEN GENET,
Minijler of the French Republic ,to the United
States of North-America,
[concluded.]
Extract from a supplement to the infli
given to citizen Genet, minijlcr plenipoten
tiary of the French republic to the United
States of America.
THE Executive Council wilh that a
new treaty, founded upon a baiis more li
beral and more fraternal than that of 1778,
may be concluded as soon as poliib'e. As,
however, they cannot conceal that iu the
actual state of Europe a negociation of
this kind may be subject to many impedi
ments, whether brought about by secret
manoeuvres of the English minister and hii
partizans at Philadelphia, by the timidity
cf certain members of the federal govern
ment, who notwithstanding their own pa
triotism have always (hewn the Itrongeft
aversion to every measure which might be
uilpleafing to England, they think it right,
for the present, that citizen Genet (hould
draw every advantage which the provilions
of the fubhlling treaty fepure to the re
public, until a new compact has more clear
ly and fully defined and enlarged them.
In this view, which exiiling circum
stances render particularly important, Ci
tizen Genet is exprefslv enjoined to make
himfelf thoroughly miifterof the sense cf
the treaty of 1778, and to be watchful
in the execution of the articles which are
favorable to the commerce and navigation
of the French republic, and he will en
deavor to fatisfy the Americans, that the
engagements which may appear burthen
fome to them are the just price of that In
dependence which the French nation con
tributed to acquire for them.
In the probable cafe of a maritime war
Citizen, Genet will employ all the means
in Ills power to procure a-itligious obfer—
vancc of the 17th, 21ft, and 22d aiti
des of the treaty of commerce, by which
the contra&ing parties engage Freely to ad
mit the prizes made by either oF the par-
ties from its enemies, and have renounced
the right of permitting their citizens to
serve under the flag of a foreigner against
theveflels of theirrefpeftivenations,or even
to admit into their ports the prizes of fo
reigners, or permit the arming or fapply
ing foreign privateers.
These articles are the more important
in the now situation, as the great dillauce
of the English privateers from their ports,
and the difficulty of supplying them, will
render their cruizers the more expensive,
and the return and sale of their prizes the
more precarious ; while our vefiels, avail
ing themselves of their right, will have at
their disposal all the ports of the United
States and the provisions with which they
abound. It would be moreover to be
feared that the fitting out in American
ports English armaments, or such as were
pretended to be so, would induce a num
ber of individuals of the northern states,
remarkable for theii boldness and activity,
to accept of English commissions and dis
tress and injure our commerce. Without
doubt neither the Congress or the Execu
tive powerof the United States would ap
prove a conduct so little conformable to
the ties of friendfhip and good understand
ing which fubfills between the two nati
ons ; but the great extent of the Englilh
commerce in America now become free,
the prodigious number of its factors and
of the emiflaries of George the 111. the
means of corruption, which their situation
and their local acquaintance give them,
would render these expeditions the more
j frequent as it would be so easy to deceive
the vigilance of government by concealed
equipments. Citizen Genet is therefore
particularly enjoined to watch, by the
consuls and commercial agents, the con
duct of the Englilh in the different ports,
to insist rigorously upon the execution of
the 17th, 21 ft, and 2id articles of the
treaty of 1778, and to prevent in the A-
RTI S E
[Whole No. 479.]
merican ports all equipments, unless upon
account of the French nation and the ad
mission of any prize except those which
Ml have been made by the veflels of the
republic. He will take to explain himfelf
npon this object with the dignity and e
nergy of the representative of a great peo
ple, who in faithfully fulfilling their en
gagements know how to make their rights
F.ions
refpe&ed
As focm as circumstances permit effica
cious negociations concerning a new trea
ty of commerce, Citizen Genet will not
lose fight of llipulating pofitivelv and
without refefve for a reciprocal exemption
from the duty on tonnage, avoided, under
different pretences, for many years pad by
the American government, tho' expressly
granted by the 6th article of the present
treaty
The mutual naturalization of French
and American citizens in commercial ref
pe£ts, proposed by Mr. Jefferfon and ap
proved of by the Executive Council, will
render this exemption from the duty on
tonnage less offenlive for the powers claim
ing a participation of the fame favor by
virtue of their treaties, for the cafus fe
deris will be entirely changed with refpeft
to them,
The reciprocal guarantee of the two na
tions stipulated in the i ith article of the
treaty of 1778. can be eftablilhed upon
generous principles which have been al
ready pointed out, and shall equally be an
elfential clause in the new treaty which
will be proposed. The Executive Coun
cil in confequcncc recommendefpecially to
citizenGenettofound early the disposition
of the American government&to make it a
condition, J; Hi qua nou, of their free com
merce with the Weft-Indies so elfential to
the United States. It nearly concerns
the peace and prosperity of the French na
tion, that a people, whose resources en
creafe beyond all calculation and whom
nature hath placed so near our rich colo
nies, should become interested, by their 4
own engagements, in the preservation of
these islands. Citizen Genet will find the
less difficulty in making this proposition
reiilhec in the United States, as the great
trade which will be the reward of it will
indemnify them ultimately for the facrifices
which they may iiiake at the cr.tfet, and
the Americans cannot be ignorant of the
great (iilproportion between their resour
ces andthofe of the French republic, and
that for S very long period the guaran
tee allied of them will be little else than
nominal for them, while that on our part
will be real and we (hall immediately put
ourlelves in a state to fulfil it, in fending to
the American ports a fufficicnt force to put
them beyond insult and to facilitate their
communication with the islands and with
France. Fully to insure the success of
these negotiations and to render nugatory
in the United States those scandalous inli
nuatior.s so clrj-.deftinely spread through
Europe by the enemies of the republic,
the Executive Council specially direct Ci
tizen Genet to adhere to the forms estab
lished for official communications with the
United States, between the government
and foreign agents, and not to permit
himfclf to take any step, or make any
overture, which can give umbrage to the
Americans in regard to the constitution
which they have chosen, and which differs
in many ponits from the principles eftab
lilhed in France.
The emissaries and partizans of George
111, the emigrants, and the Hilpaniola re
fugees, who are found in great numbers
in the principal cities of the United
States, ar.d who have already infe&ed
them with their falfehonds, will not fail to
watch the minister of the republic and to
give all his measures the molt malicious
conftruftion. An open and patriotic con
duct can alone put him beyond the reach
of calumny and mifconftru&ion. The
Executive Council relies in this respect
with an entire confidence upon the pru
dence and known ifioderatLn of Citizen
Genet.
R.In order that nothing may Jelay the
conclusion of the negociations of citizen
Genet with tile Americans, and that he
may have in his own power all the meanß
which can aflift the pains he will take in
thecaufeof liberty, the Executive Coun
iil has given him the full power? annexed.
The muiiiter of the marine department
will trairtrrat to him a certain number of
blank letters of marque, which he will de
liver to fucli French or American owners
as (hail apply for the fame.
The miaifter at war (hall likewise deli
ver to citizen Genet officers' commissions
in blank for several grades in the army.
Done and agreed upon in Executive
Council the Seventeenth day of January,
of the year 1793, and of the French Re
public the fecund.
(Signed)
MONGE, President,
LE BRUN, Minister for Foreign Affairs,
Copy of a letter from the mint/ler of the
marine to citizen Genet, nun 'jler of the
French republic to the United States.
February Bth, 1793
\ou will find enclosed, citizen, 500
letters of marque, which you will distribute
to the Americans who may fit out and try
their chance apainft the English, Dutch,
Ruffians, Prufiians, and Auftrians.
I he means taken in France to register
them in the office of clafies, will be fup
plicd by that of regillering them in the
chancery office of the consulates of France,
lituate in the ports where the armed ves
sels may be fitted out, or in the nearest
ports to them. You will take care to
number and sign these, to keep an exact
register, and to give me an account of the
diipofal of them by every veflel bound
from the ports of the United States to
those of the republic.
I add to this enclosure twenty copics of
each of the laws of the 3 ill January and
2d of February last.
-The laws relative to the encouragements
granted to prizes and to their distribution
will be soon pafled for France, I shall
transmit them to you as soon as I receive
them.
Foreign built Tt flcls, the entry of which
had been prohibited in 1791, may for the
preient be armed in France and partake of
all the advantages granted to those built in
the docks of the republic.
This regulation is of too much moment
not to hasten you in communicating it to
all those, who knowing the law of 13th
May 1791, may think themselves depriv
ed of thepower of introducing their ves
sels into Irancc.
You will doubtless think it right to re
gulate your measures and your conduit by
the prudence and diferetion which your
chani&er requires in the existing circnm
ftances, to contribute as much as in your
power to the good of the republic, the suc
cess of itsarmamens, and the deftru&ion
of its enemies'commerce.
Signed,
Copy of a second letter from the Minister
of the Navy to Citizen Genet, Am
baiTador of the French Republic to the
United States of America.
Paris, May 28, 1793 ;
2 d Tear of the French Republic.
You will find hereunto annexed, Citi
zen, commissions for the conductors of
prices, which you will continue to diftri
luite to the captains, with the letters of
marque according to the numbers of cap
tares thcv (hailfhink they may be able to
make at sea ; yon will inferibe them under
the fame number as the letters of marque,
and mark the fame number on each of the
eommifiione delivered to each captain ; it
ha« been thought neceflary to adopt this
uniform method in all the maritime dif
tri&s, and give eotice of it to the different
ordonnateurs.
(Signed) DALBARADE.
Copy of the Credentials given to Citizen
Genet.
In the name of the French Republic, by
virtue of the law of the 19th Augull
!aft, which confers on the Executive
Council provisionally, all the functions
of the Executive power, and of the de
cree of the National Convention of the
2111 September following, which conti
nues the public authorities in force at
the la/l period:
We the citizens forming the provisional
Executive Council, to the republic of the
United States of North America.
Vrry dear, girat friends and allies,
Having rtfolved to appoint a fuccef
for to citizen Ternant, mtiufter plenipo
tentiary of the French republic, residing
with you, we have chosen citizen Genet,
adjutant-general and colonel in the service
oi the republic, to replace him in the fame
character. The proofs of zeal and patri
otism which he has hitherto given, per
suade us, that he will conduct himfclf in
a manner to render his person agreeable.
We pray you very dear, great friends
and allies to give full credit to all he (hall
be charged to fay to you 011 the part of
the republic, especially when he aflures
you of our disposition to promote the in
terests and prosperity of the United States.
We do not doubt he will give all his at
tention to convince you of the desire of
the French nation to bind more and more
the tics of friendfhip and fraternity which
ought to unite two free people formed
mutually to esteem each other, and to es
tablish between them the moll perfect har
mony.
Written at Paris the 30th December,
1792 ; the firft year of the Republic.
The citizens forming the provisional
Executive Council of the French republic.
LE BRUN, ROLAND,
CLAVIERE, PACHE,
GARAT, MONGE.
By the provilional Executive Council,
GROUVELLE, Secretary ol
the Council.
Mr. Fenno,
As the following cxtraft from a Connecti
cut paper contains the essence of the ar
guments which have been advanced in
support of (he opinion, that the liber
ties of the United States, will stand or
fall with the success or failure of the pre
sent Revolution of France, you are re
quested to republifh it.
ARE NOT OUR LIBERTIES
AT STAKE? Did not the British Mi
nister publicly declare, that it was not
the French nation, but the REPUBLI
CAN PRINCIPLES which they had
adopted that he withed to exterminate,
and to effect this he waged war? Has he
then waged war against the French nation
only ? Is it not likevvife against us ? Are
not their principles our principles, conse
quently their cause is ourcaufe, which we
trust is the cause of right reason ; which
ought to be the cause of all men ; and
which is the cause of God, against which
the kings and princes of Europe Gog and
Magog are gathered together. Is it not
then our immediate inteieft that this cause
should be supported ? And if so, is it not
our immediate and indifpenfible duty to
make use of the means that God has put
in our hands to effed it. Although Ame
rica is yet in a state of infancy, and her
resources fmaU when compared to those of
the nations at war, yet in a good cause
(he can do much, and even without enter
ing into a war, (he can withhold her com
merce, which enables Britain to carry on
the war against us. For I take it for
granted that thewar is dire&ly against us;
and that in a most pointed and dangerous
manner, although we seem not to be sen
sible of it. For it is against those PRINCI
PLES without which we cease to be a
nation. And if France should be conquer
ed, we have no reason to believe we should
not be attacked. For the present wai is
a war of despotism against freedom, and
as these two principles are diametrically
opposite to each other, no peace can be
expe&ed, until one or the other is exter
minated. But perhaps you fay, we fear
that withholding our commerce will be
the means of a war ; and you dread the
consequences of it. So do I, but I dread j
what may likely be the consequence of re
maining neuter worse, for I dread slavery;
but I cannot believe that withholding our
commerce will be the means of plunging
us in a war. If it should, JUSTICE will
be on onr fide, for we should be doing as
we ought to do in a national way, and to
do otherwifc, would be a national evil;
and is it not common for national fins to
be puniflied with national calamities ? And
is war, think you, the only calamity a na
tion has to fear ? It may be that the devot
ed inhabitants of Philadelphia thought the
fame ; but how were they deceived ?
There was a time when the Israelites were
opprefled by their enemies ; it was God's
will that they should be relieved by means
of war ; and the people were called upon
to go against their enemies, and as it was
a common cause, they ought all to have
been willing to go. But the inhabitants
of Meroz, probably fearing the calamities
of a war, went not; and although those
that went obtained a victory, and deliver
ed Israel, yet the inhabitants of Meroz,
MONGE.
for their sluggish neutrality, were cursed
with a bitter curse.
For the Gazette of tlx United States.
GRATITUDE to FRANCE. This
has been the text for the Bolton Chronicle
writers and other incendiarics to preach
against the proclamation of neutrality and
the writers who appeared to vindicate it
Our Legislative and corporate bodies have
truly exprefTed the feme of the people on
this fubjedt, by approving the conduct of
the Preiident. The war party, however,
would not allow the merit of the noble
firtnnefs of the chief magistrate in keeping
our country clear from the war. Citizen
Genet has published his instructions to
clear himfelf, and thereby leaves his tools
in the lurch. Those inftrudiions, page 2d,
tell us that the conduct of the old govern
ment of France towards America, was the
proper hibject of indignation not gratitude.
The fame inftrudlions inform us of the
proper measure of thanks due to the nezu
government for the very kind intentions
they entertain towards the United States.
Citizen Genet, rejeSing the myjlerious
secrecy of courts, and full of candor and
franinefs (fee his letter to Mr. Jefferfon
of 20th December 1793) on his firft arri
val at Philadelphia, gave public assurances
of his being a minister of peace : he did
not expect the United States would take
part in the war—it was not defiredkby
France, that they fliould behold citizen
candor and franinefs, with peace in his
mouth, and the war inftru&ions in his
pocket.
He had in his pocket, three hundred
commiflions to dijlribute to the Americans,
to try their chance againjl (that is to rob)
the English, Dutch, RuJJians, Prujfians and
Aujlriam—See page 7th —We were to
make common cause with the French—to
punijh the invading powers, and to be pro
tected by a fujjicicnt force, to put our ports
beyond insult.
Benefits in trade were also to be held
out as a lure to join France—A (hare of
the Weft India trade, which at present is
not worth a pin to herfelf, was to be 011
the condition fine qua non that the United
States would now aiTure and guarantee
the Islands to France, (fee page 6) Regu
lations of trade are also recommended It
is plain to the most careless observer, why
they are timed as they are—and what is
their tendency ? It is a truck trade that is
proposed: a bubble in their Weft India
commerce at a future day, to engage us
in war and ruin now. When they had any
thing to give us, they denied it, now they
have it not, they would barter it for war.
As long as it was pofTible, and longer
than it was decent, our faition juftified
Genet—At lalt they gave him up, when
they found he hung heavy on their cause,
but could not help it. Then their cant
was—the man is ralh and imprudent: those
who sent him are wife, jutl and friendly.
We renounce the minister—we cling with
ten fold fondnefs to his masters—Behold
his inftruftions—They tell us, and so does
the proverb, like man—like matter.
Congress of the United States.
In SENATE.
Monday, Dec. 30, 1793.
The bill making an alteration in the flag
of the United States was read the third
time.
Resolved, That this bill pass, that the
title thereof be, " An ast making an al
teration in the flag of the United States,"
that it be engrofled, and that the secreta
ry desire the concurrence of the house of
representatives therein.
The petition of James and William
Smith of the state of Georgia, for them
felres, and in behalf of the heirs of James
Smith, was presented and read, praying
for remedy and afliftance in refpeft to cer
tain losses sustained by the Creek Indians.
On motion,
Ordered, That this petition together
with the communications from the Secre
tary for the department of War, respec
ting Indian affairs, be referred to Mr.
Jackson, Mr. Strong, Mr. Burr, Mr.
13utler and Mr. Langdon t to consider and
ieport thereon.
After the consideration of the execu
tive business.
Adjourned.
Tuesday, December 3 1
The following written messages were re
ceived from the President of the United
States, by Mr. Dandridge his fecrctary.
United Stales, Dec. 30,
Gentlemen of the Senate and of the
House of Reprefentativjs,
I lay before you for your confideratio ft
a letter from the Secretary of State, in.
forming me of certain impediments,which
have arisen to the coinage of the precious
metals at the mint.
As also a letter from the fame officer
relative to certain advances of money,
which have been made on public account.
Should you think proper to fanftion what
has been done, or be of opinion that any
thing more (hall be done in the fame vt-av,
you will judge whether there are not cir
cumstances which would render secrecy ex
pedient.
United States, Dei. 1793.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of the
House of Representatives,
I communicate to you the tranflatjoa
of a letter received from the Representa
tives of Spain here, in reply to that of the
Secretary of State to them, of the 21ft
instant, which had before been communi
cated to you.
The messages & papers therein referred
to were severally read.
Ordered, That they lie for consideration.
Mr. Rutherfurd reported from the com
mittee to whom was referred the petition
of Conrad Laub and others, stating that
the Honorable Albert Gallatin, at the
time he was eledted a Senator of the Uni
ted States, had not been nine years a citi
zen of the said United States, as is requir
ed by the conltitmion ; which report wa»
read.
Ordered, That it lie for consideration,
The Senate proceeded to the considera
tion of the executive business before thsm
—after which, Adjourned.
Wednesday, Jan. ift. 1794.
The Senate proceeded to the conside
ration of the report of the committee to
whom was referred the petition of Con
rad Laub and others
On motion,
To postpone the consideration of the
report until to-morrow.
It was agreed to amend this motion by
fti iking out the woeds to morrow, and to
insert in lieu thereof, Thursday the gth in-
Jlant.
The following written mefTage was re
ceived from the President of the United
States, by Mr. Dandridge his fecretanr.
United Staks, Dec. 3 y?. 1793.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of the
House of Representatives,
I now lay before you a letter from the
Secretary of State, with his account of
the expenditure of the monies appropriat
ed for our intercourse with foreign nations
from the lft of July 1792 to the lit of
July 1793, and otherpapers relating there
to.
The meflage and papers therein referred
to were severally read.
Ordered, That they lie for considera
tion.
C. D.
The Senate proceeded to the considera
tion of the executive business before them,
after which—Adjourned.
Thursday, Jan. 2.
The petition of James Mathers, door
keeper to the Senate was presented and
read, stating the enhanced price of the ne
ceflarie? of life, and praying further com
pensation for his services.
Ordered, Thatthis petition lie on the
table.
The following (notion was made and fe
condcd.
Refplved by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress aflembled, two thirds
of both Houses concurring, that the fol
lowing article be proposed to the Legisla
tures of the several States, as an amend
ment to the Constitution of the United
States ; which when ratified by three
fourths of the said legislatures, fliall be
valid as part of the said Constitution. viz.
" The Judicial power of the United
States fliall not be construed to extend to
any suit in law or equity, commenced or
prosecuted against one of the United
States by citizens of another State, or bv
citizens or fubjefts of any foreign State."
on which
A motion was made as follows,
Resolved, That the consideration of
trus mot ' nn be postponed, and that the Se
nate will on the ioth instant, take in!,»
consideration the fnbjeft of amcndcienu
to the coal'itutioa."
G. WASHINGTON.
G. WASHINGTON.
G. WASHINGTON.WHertUpbti,
It wa» agTeed to divide the motioii so
amendment, and the firft clause was adop
ted, to wit.
" That the consideration of the origi
nal motion be postponed" and the latter
clause of the motion for postponement be
ing amended, it was
Resolved, That the Senate will on the
13th instant, take into consideration the
fubjeft of amendments to the canftitution.
After the consideration of the execu
tive bulmefs—Adjourned.
NEW-YORK, Jan. 4.
Lxtra£t of a letter from a gentle
man in Nova-Scotia, to his
friend in this city, dated No
vember 27.
" We flatter ourselves that
iomething important will take
place in the Weft-Indies. Twenty
regiments and a strong fleet are,
on their pafiage there. NO
MORE English Packets go to
New-York. The October Packet
arriveda few days past at Halifax,
and will return direct from
thence."
Extract of a letter from Newbu
ry-Port, to a gentleman in this
city, dated Dec. 23d.
" By an arrival yesterday at
Salem, we are informed, that 3
of our eastern vessels, bound to
some of the English Weft-India
Islands have been captured by a
French Privateer—carried into
St. Lucia, and condemned—ves
sels and cargo confifcated ; and
one of the Captains has come
passenger in the above vessel.—
We are very much alarmed here
in consequence of this and other
like news."
CHARLESTON, Dec. 12
Capt Newton, from the Havanna, in
forms us, that a French fleet, coniiftirg
of two 74's and 9 frigates, were lately
seen cruizing off Tobago, by the British
sloop of war Rattlesnake, which was cha
fed by them. This is supposed to be the
fleet which failed from New-York in Oc
tober last, under the command of Admi
ral Sercy.
Captain Newton left at the Havanna,
the brig five Sifters, Capt. Peck, of New-
Haven, and the brig , capt, Mitch
ell, of Virginia. Three other American
veflels were also in that port, which had
put in there from Jamaica, in distress.—
The American veflels were not fuffered to
fell any part of their cargo at the Havan
na, not even as mueh as would pay for
their repairs.
SOUTH-CAROLINA
ExtraS. from l/ie Proceedings of the Hovfe
of Reprefentat'rves,
Thnrfday, December 5, 1793.
COL. Anderfon, as chairman of the
committee to whom was referred
the business of examining and ascertain
ing the truth of a report, that an armed
force is now levying within this (late, by
persons under foreign authority, without
the pcrmifiion and authority, contrary to
the exprels prohibition of the govern
ment of the United Statee, and of this
state, informed the honfe that the com
mittee were ready to report, but prior to
which moved that the house might be
cleared of (hangers. The houle being
accordingly cleared.
On motion, ordeied.that the drifted
and mod inviolate secrecy be, and isfrere
by imposed on each and every of the
members of this house, on the fubjeft nf
the report now about 10 be made. The
members present having pledged them
selves accordingly, col. Anderfon report
ed from the committee, which he read in
his place, and afterwards delivered it in
at the clerk's table, where it was again
read for information.
Ordered, that it be taken into conside
ration to morrow.
Friday, Decembei 6.
Agreeable to the order of the day, the
house took i«to consideration the report
of the committee' to whom was referred
the bulinefs of examining into and ascer
taining the truth of a report, that an arm
edfotfe is how levying within this (late
by persons under a foreign authority,
without the pevmifiion and contrary to
the exprefj prohibition of the govern
ment of the United States, and of this
(late, which being read through, was
Hnanimoufiy agreed to. It would be here
infeited, but it i» of a private natuic,
On motion, ordered, that a meflage be
prepaied and sent to the frnate, to in
form that this house have fouie coinmuni
cationsof great importance to make them;
and as they are at piffcnt of a private na
ture, the house requilt thatthcv would
appoint a committee to receive such com
xunications immediately. A mefiage
was accordingly prepared and sent to the
lenate.
The State of South Carolina,
By biscxctlleny William Moultrie,
govtrnor and commander in chits in
and over the state aforefaid.
APROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS information hath
been given to me, that an armed
force is now levying within this, (late by
persons under a foreign authority, with
out the permilfion, and contrary to the
express prohibition, of the goverment,
of the United States, and of this (late ;
and whereas measures of this fort, if
permitted by government, mud tend
to disturb the internal tranquility
of the United States, and involve them
in hostilities with nations with whom they
are now at peace, which found policy re
quires (hoiild be preserved ; and as many
of the citizens of this state may be induc
ed, by the insidious arts of the persons act
ing under the foreign authority as afore
faid, in violation of every law, as well of
the United States, as that of nations to
enlist themselves, and engage in a scheme
so replete with injury to this country ; I
do therefore, inorder to put an immediate
(lop to such unlawful and pernicious prac
tices, ifTue this my proclamation, hereby
(Irifily forbidding any person to enrol
any of the citizens of this state, and pio
hibiting the citizens thereof from. emitt
ing tinder any officer, or other person, for
any purpose not previously fan&ioned by
the government of the United States, 'or
of this (late. And I do positively forbid
all aflemblages of troops, nnauthorifed by
government, under pain of fnffering the
penalties declared by law for such offen
ces.
Given under my hand, and the seal
of the (late, in the town of Co
lumbia, this 9th day of Decem
ber, in the year of our Lord one
thotifand seven hundred and nine
ty-three, & of the Independence
of the United States of America
the eighteenth.
WILLIAM MOULTRIE,
By the governor's command.
Peter Freneau, Secretary.
■©"©"©"©>©>'©>©>©'>©>«©><@;<<g»
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 6.
A letter from Baltimore informs that
the gallant Capt. Barney, on his paflage
from Port-au-Prince with a very valuable
cargo has been captured by a British fri
gate. Particulars in our next.
This morning about 8 o'clock, a fire
brok« out in lome back buildings on the
South fide of Saflafras, near Second-street.
By the usual, alert and spirited exertions
of the Citizens, the progress of the flames
was arretted, but not till some confidcrable
damage was sustained.
From the General Advertiser of this
morning—lt is not to be wondered at, a
correspondent observes ; that Mr. Jeffer
fon Ihould resign. The nature of the of
fice he filled required of him to lend his
name to mcafurei which militated against
his well known principles. As Secretary
of State he was chargcd with certain ccr
refpondences founded oh principles firft
fettled in the Executive's council, where
his influence was but trifling. To a man
of his way of thinking and turn of mind
it must have been a disagreeable taflc to
give the fan&ion of his name to fentimcnts
which his heart must difapprovc.
In moil of the European countries
there are certain focicties who stroll about"
from town to town, and wherever they can
pick up a dray child they educate him to
their own principle?, and add him to the
company. A similar institution we hear
has lately been attempted to be formed in
America.—The lad place where these
American Gjrjjfiei were feefl, was Cliatle'
town.:—Rut luckily for the worthy inha
bitants of that town, we uuderiianj that
none Of their children were kidnapped by
the wandering crew : & we recommend to
the inhabitants of the other towns to be
upon their guard, and to keep their chil
dren out of the way of the American
Strolling Gypsies.
Boston Mercury
From the Courier Politique, of Jan. 4.
Ihe paflengers who gave us the news
of the capture of the Cape, being neither
engineers nor mariners, are not able to in
form us particularly of the manoeuvres
which the Spaniacds made to effect their
conquest. But they report that the be
figed made but a feeble refiltancc—that
the American veiTels which went out be
fore the squadron entered the harbor, are
returned thither since, excepting that
which has brought the news. Without
doubt the firft arrivals from St. Domingo
will bring the details more circumstantial
ly
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at NEW-YORK
Brig American Hero, Seton, Kingston
Schr. Polly, Meech, Cape Nichole Mole
Tfie brig Glasgow, Hand, from New-
Providence to New-York, is put into
Gardner's Bay.
Captain Seton, of the brig American
Hero,who arrived here yeftcrday,informs,
that on the 2 ill December he fell in with
the brig Sophia, Capt. Price, belonging
to Philadelphia, who hailed Capt. Seton,
and informed him that the Sophia was
then finking. Capt. Seton immediately
hove too, and not without difficulty laved
the crew and passengers—it then blowing 1
a gale : the Sophia went down (hortly af
ter. He further adds, that when he left
Ivingfton, the town was in a very sickly
dale, a fever something similar to that
which lately raged in Philadelphia, carry
ing off numbers, and supposed to have
been brought there by some veiTel from
Philadelphia, during the sickness.
Yelterday arrived here from Cape-Ni
chola-Mole, Captain Meech in the schoo
ner Polly, which place he left the ioth of
Dec. who informs, that all the French
Well-India Islands, except Cape-Francois,
and Aux-Caycs, were in jpoffeffion of the
English. He likewise informs, that some
time before he failed, a report prevailed at
Cape-Nichola-Mole, that Aux-Cayes had
been laid in ashes.
PRICE of STOCKS.
Philadelphia, January 6, 1794
6 per cents, 18/
3 ditto, icf to lofi.
Deferred, 1 if
U. S. Bank, 11 per cent, advance.
N. A. ditto, 20 ditto ditto.
Pennsylvania do. 7 ditto ditto.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fomtb and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Ejjifcopal
ground,
TAKES thU opportunity of returning tiU
graceful thanks to his former employers,
and requ.-ftiiig their future favors, as well as
thole of the puhiic 111 general.
He. com in ties to niak- and repair at the
(Horteft not;ce, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
Inch as coaches, chariots, pi. actons with and
without ci ane necks, cuaclleej, chuifes, kittc
reens, windsor fulkeys and chau s, and harness
of every defcriprion, in the nc-ateft and nev. eft
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he lias a quantity of" the bell seasoned
wood by him, ai»d capital workmen, he has
not the fcaft doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaclion to thole who please to employ him
He has for fa!e, several carriages alinoft
finifhed, such as Coachee?, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel a ligl t phaeton for
one or two horfer, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6,1794. m&tgm
Bank of the United States.
J inuaiy 6th, 1794.
NOTICE i« hereby g ven, that the e will
be paid at the Bank, offer she fixteenfh
inftarit, to the Srockho'ders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty cents for each (hare, b.*ing the d vidend
declared for the last fix month?-.
JOHN KEA}I,
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES,
Monday, Jan. 6,
Mr. Gifiefpie, a member from North Ca
rolina appeared and took hie feat this day.
After reading fcveral petitions, the
hou'.c: refolded itfelf into a committee of
the whole, Mr. Trumbull, chairman, and
took into cnnfideration the bill for com
pleating and better supporting themilitarr
eftablifliment of the United States. Thi»
bill provides for the addition of one dollar
per month to the pay of the folders from
the time of the puffing the a£l.
Mr. Irvine observed that he had heard
it laid that thepropofed addition of one
dollar nras intended to raise the wages of
the fuidiers to beai some proportion to the
price of labor—
I*le said the addition of one dollar would
not anfrtrer that ptirpofc, it would not
raise the soldiers' wages fd as to induce
good men to enter into the ferrice he
moved therefore to ftrikeoutone dollar
for the purpose of inserting two—This
motion alter some debate, was negatived
—Mr. Clark then moved that there fliould
be an addition of four ounces of bread or
flour and four ounces of meat to each ra
tion.—This motion occasioned further de
bate and was at length withdrawn by the
mover 'Mr. Irvine then m oved the
following amendment to the bill, in fub
llance, that there [hall be allowed one
hundred acres of land to each folder at the
end of three years, or when discharged
and a preemption for one hundred acres,
provided they reside one year in the vicini
ty of some one of the military posts efta
bhihed, or which may be established.
This motion after some debate was ne-i
gatived, 47 to 35-/
Mr. J. Wadfworth moved in amend
ment providing for years half pay
to the widows and orphans of such officers
and soldiers as ihall die in the service, be
longing to the present eftablilhment ; this
amendment was agreed to without debate
39 to 34.
The committee having gone thro' with
the difcuftion of ths bill, rose and report
ed it with one amendment.
The bill with the amendment was then
laid on the table.
A motion was then made by Mr. Wadf
woith, that a committee be appointed to
enquire and report whether any and what
alterations ought to fee made in the rations
allowed to the troops in the service of thi
United States. This was agreed to, an(i
a committee appointed accordingly.-
, r - Parker hid a motion on the table,
in substance as- follows: that the commit
tee on the Algerine business, should bo
mftrufted to report an eflimate of the pro
bable expence of fortify ing the harbors and
sea ports of the United States; and also
what addition ought to be made to supply
the arsenals and magazines with arms and
military flolcs.
On motion of Mr. S. Sitiith, the house
took into eonfideration the Report of the
Select Committee on the memorial of An
di evv G. Frauncis—the report was read by
the Clerk. It was thbn observed, that as
feme confidential papers had been men
tioned ss neceltary to be read, to enable
the bouse tojndge of the propriety of the
report, it was proper to clear the galle
ries—these papers being read it may be
determined whether the report fhoulj le
publickly diicuffed or not.
The gallciies Were then cleared,.
BALTIMORE, Jan. i;
On Sunday last, arrived in Patapfeo-ri
teri the Brig Henrietta, Capt. Hunt, in
73 days from Havre-de-Grace, and 6$
from Torbay* Capt; Hunt informs that
at the time of his arrival at Havre, afiig
nats were at discOunt of from eight to ten
for one ; but that, before he failed, they
had risen to three i and that the people
there enjoyed uninterrupted tranquility
that previous to his leaving Torbay, the
Biittih grand fleet had failed, with 16,000
land forees on boardj among which were
lo regiments of dragoons ; deftinatioit
unknown.
To the Stockholders of the Bank
of the United States*
G«*nflrm« n,
FN DING it inconvenient to continue any
longer to the Direction, I irqueft you 10
l.'V.or liimr other pcrfon with your choice »t
tie i niiimg Klrfiion, i*ihc room of
Yui'f most obed'tnt Sctvinf
„ r WILLIAM SMITH.
Chtfnu'-flfect, Jan. 4th. 1794.
By o'd^ r ,
Caflver.
CongressON£Y botrowfd or leaned, accounts fta
,td >•[ collr&ed, employers suited with
/meftics, hoofe rooms, hoarding and lodging
rated, let or procured— foldici's, maimer's,
or militia men's pay, l*Mds and claims on the
public ; (hares in the batiks* in thecanals, and
the turnpike road i ceitificates granted by the
public, and the old and late paper monies ;
notes of hand, bills, bonds and morgages, with
ur without depoliis—Bought, lo)d, or sego
ciaied at No. 8, in south S,xth J lr /^^^J|
M 1
d.
Market-ibeet by FRANCIS WHITE,
Who traofafts bufioefs in the public offwes for
country peop'e and others, by virtue of a pow
er ot attorney, or by pcifonal application.
December 11. d
Just Imported,
From Dublin andGlasgoif,
And now opening for lale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
Stt No. 118, Market Jlreet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Regilter for I 79 2
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and i'pirit
on christianity
Difiiey's lite of Dr. Jortin
D'Anville's ancient geography
Memoirs of Guy Joli
Variety, a collection of eflays
King of Prussia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
RulTeU's ancient and modem Europe
L.at)ghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Satignier and BriiTon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taffo's Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of Bufton
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vo ' s-
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
linlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state ol Hudfon'sßay
Preston 011 masonry
Lavater on phvfiognomy, abridge
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kiltes of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engrivingj
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immaterial.lm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation ot Tacitus
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's (ketches of the history of man
Liberal opinions, or the history ot Benignus
Mewe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of I'olitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoule's history oi the bible
Wat lon's life of Philip lid. &: Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanlay's wonders of the little world, calico
man
Wall s on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark, Ruflia, Poland, &c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's praClice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the niufc!es
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qnincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's differ tat ion 1;
London praCtice of physic
Bell's surgery
Cbaptal's chemistry.
A New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A - ul to be fold by
R. AIT KEN,
jVo. 22, MarketJlreet,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME-
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philadelphia, for promoting Ufeful
Knowledge, Vol. 3. P? ice 20/ in boards
£3" The subscribers are requested to call
as above directed for the 3d vol. where may
bo had, complete setts uniformly printed.
Contents of Vol. 3d.
j. An efliy on those enquiries in Natural Phi
losophy, which at present aremoft benefici
al to the Unitttd Statcj of North America.
Dr. Nicholas Collin,
2. Conje&ures concerning the formation of
the earth, &c. Dr. B. Frank/in.
A new and curious theory of Light and
Heat. Dr. B. Franklin.
4. Defcript on of the process to be obfervetl
in making large sheets ot paper in the Chi
nese manner, with one fijiooth furtace.
Dr. B. Franklin.
5. Queries and conjectures relative to Mag
netism, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
6. Explanation of a singular phenomenon, firft
observed by Dr Franklin, and not fatisfac
torily accounted tor. Mr. R. Patterjon.
7. An account of an Earthy Subftacce tound
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls; together with
some remarks on the Falls.
Robert M'CauJfin y M. D.
8. Observations on the probabilities ot the
duration of Human Life, and the progress
of population, in the United States ol Ame
rica. William Barton, Esq.
9. A letter containing observations made at
Lake Erie, on that singular phenomenon,
by seamen termed looming.
Andrew E/hcot EJq.
10. An Account of the Sugar Maple-Tree
of the United States, and of the methods
of obtaining Sugar from if, together with
observations upon the advantages both pub
lie and private of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rujh, M.D.
11. Memoir on the use of the Thermometer
in difcoveiing Banks, Soundings, &c.
Jonathan Williams, Esq.
1 2. An Account of the most effectual means
of preventing the deleterious confeqnences
of the bite of the Crotalus Horridns, or Rat
tle Snake. Benjamin Sm'th Bart«n y M. D.
13. Magnetic Observations, made at the Uni
versity of Cambridge, (Massachusetts.}
Dr. S. Willia.ms.
14. Accurate determination of the right as
cension and declination of Bootes, and the
Pole Star. Andrew Eliicott, Esq.
15. Account of several Houses in Philadelphia,
struck with Lightning, on June 7th, 1789.
David Riltenhovfey EJq.
16. An Account of the effe&s of a stroke of
Lightning on a House furniflied with two
Condu&ors. David Rittenhoufe > and Francis
Hopkinfon, Efqrs.
17. Experiments and Observations on Evapo
ration in cold Air. C. Wiflar, As. D.
18. Postscript to Mr. Barton's Letter, to
Dr. Rittenhoufe, of the 17, of March, 1791.
19. New Notation of Music.
Mr. R. PaUi'fon.
20. Observations on the Thewrv of Water
Mills, &c. W. Waring.
19. Agronomical Observations.
David Rittenhoufe.
20. A letter relative to a method of finding
the sum of the several powers of the Sines,
&c. David Rittenhoufe, Esq.
21. Index Florae Lancaftrienfis.
Henrico Muhlenberg, D. D.
22. Invefligation of the power of Dr. Bar
ker's Mill, as improved by James Rumfey,
with a description of the mill. W. Waring.
23. A Thermometrical Journal of the tem
perature of the Atmosphere and Sea, on a
voyage to and from Oporto, with explana
tory observations thereon.
Jonathan Williams, Esq.
24. Fit ft memoir of observations on the plants
denominated Cryptogamick.
M. De Beauvois.
25. A letter, containing observations 011 the
ancient works of Art, the Native Inhabi
tants, &c. of the Wellern Country.
Major Jonathan Heart.
26. An account of some of the principal dies
employed by the North American Indians.
Extracted by the late Mr. Hugh Martin.
tj. An account of the beneficial effeCts of the
Caflia Chamaecrifta in recruiting worn-out
lands, and in enriching such as are natural
ly poor ; together with a botanical descrip
tion of the plant.
James Greenway oj Virginia.
28. An account of a hill on the borders of
North Carolina, supposed to have been a
volcano, in a letter from a Continental of
ficer, to Dr. 7* Greenway, Virginia.
29. An Account of a poisonous plant, grow
ing spontaneously in the southern part of
Virginia. Extracted from a paper by
Dr. Jamei Greenway, Virginia.
30. Description of a Machine for mealhring a
Ibip's way. Francis Htpkinfcn, Eftj.
31. An Inquiry into the question, whether the
Apis Mellifica, or true Honey-Eee, is a na
tive of America. Benjamin Smith Barton t M.D.
32. An Account of a Comet.
David Rittenhoufe, EJq.
33. Cadmus or a Treatise on the Elements of
Written Language, illuftratinf, by a Philo
sophical division of Speech, the power of
each character, thereby mutually fixing the
Orthography and Orthoepy. With an EfTay
on the mode of teaching the Deaf, or Swd
and coi.fiquently Dumb, to speak, by Wn>.
Thornton, M. D. Honored with the Ma
gellanic Gold Medal, by the PBilofopliica!
Society, in December, 1792. N.
Cadmus is printed in a fine 8. vol. and fold
by the Publilher hereof.
24. Obfervatioiifc on the Theory oi Water-
Mills. W - faring.
35. An Improvement on MetalicConductors
or Lightning rods. Mr. Robert Fatterjott.
Honored with the Magellanic Premium, by
an Award of the Society in December 1792.
36. An easy and expeditions method < 1 clil
fipating the noxious Vapour commonly
found in Wells and other subterraneous
places. Lbtncicr Rtbirtfln, Bfq.
37. A method of draining Ponds in level
grounds. 34' "'£g""-
38. Oblervations on the Cevcrity o) the win
ter, 1779,1782. Kev. Matthew WUfan.
39. A Description of a new Standard lor
Weights and Mealures; io a l-".tci from
Mr. John Cooke, ofTipperary in Ireland.
40. Description of a Spring-Block, designed
to allift a VelTel in failing, franai lhphn
/»», Iso- Honored with the Magellanic
Cold Medal, by an Award ot the Society
in December 179°'
December 20.
ALL persons having any demand against
the Estate and Effects of Mri. MARY
SINDKEY, widow, late of Frankford, Ox.
ford township, in the State of Pennsylvania,
deceased j are deiired to produce tlieir ac
counts to Jacob Lesher and William Creed,
(in Franklord, aforelaid,) Executors and Ad
ministrators ot the above in oider for settle
ment. And whoever is indebted to said Es
tate, &c. ave requested to make payment to
the aforefaid Administrators, on or before the
16th of Mai-ch, 1794, or they will be dealt
with according to law,
Frankford, Dec. 16.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
The Subfcribttr intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, begs leave to of
fer his fervicesto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Thole who may please
to favor him with their bufwefs, may depend
upon having it tranfafted with the utmost fide
lity and dispatch,
Orders from Philadelphia, Bolton, or any
Other part of the United States, will be flri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
NOTICE
IS hereby given, to the Members of the
Insurance Company of North-America,
That the third Instalment, being Two Dollars
on each (hare of the Stock, is to be paid, a
greeabjy to the Conftitntion, on the second
Monday [the 13th day] of January next: And
a Central Meeting of the Stockholders is to be
beld on the succeeding day, for the purpose of
chooling Fijteen Directors, examining into the
Situation of the Company's Affairs, and ma
king such additional Rules and Regulations
as they shall judge necefiary.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Secratary.
Dec. 16. lnw&ftjj. ij
ADVERTISEMENT
New-Jersey, >T> Y virtue of a Wnt to me
Suffcx County, ff. ) -D diretted, issued out of
the High Court ot Chancery of New-Jcrfey, at
the suit of William Shipley against John Ming
and others; I (hall expose to sale at Public Ven
due, on the sixth day of February next, between
the hours of Twelve and Five in the Afternoon
of the fame day, on the Premifcs, the following
defcribcd Tract of Land, with its appurtenances,
situate in the Townihip of Oxford and County
of Suflex, beginning at a Chefnut Oak Tree, cor
ner of Daniel Cox's land, and Handing in the
line of a foimer fuivey made to Thomas Steven
fon # being marked with the letter B. and thence
extending along Coxe's line (firft) louth fifty de
grees wett fifty-five chains and feventy-five links
to a Black Oak Treecorncr ot Joseph Shipper's
land (feccnd) south nine degrees and fifteen mi
nutes, weft ninety chains and sixty five links to
a forked White Oak Tree, marked with the let
ters P and B another of the said Shippen's cor
ners (third) thence north eighty degrees, east one
hundred and forty-five chains, to a post on the
foatherly fide of Paquaofte-River, being also a
corner of John Reading's land (fourth) thence
north thirty-nine degrees weft, one hundred
and thirty-two chains to place of beginning,
containing nine hundred and thirty acies with
the usual allowance for roads and high ways —
The fame Premises arc within eight miles of the
River Delaware, and there is thereon a conveni
ent Grill Mill with two pair of Stones—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fuftcient ftrcam of
water for their use—a Dwelling House. Store
House, and several small buildings.
MARK THOMPSON, Sheriff.
Dated 2»d day of July, 1793.
To be Sold,
A T P J> IV A T E SALE,
A Valuable Lot of 16
Acres of LAN'D, lying on the great road lead
ing from Princeion to Trenton, 1 5 miles from
Princeton ; with a tan-yard, bark-houle, beam
houfe and currying-fhop, a never (ailing (beam
of water running through the fame ; a good
d with an entry and two room*
on the lower floor, and three an the upper floor;
a kitchcn adjoining, wuh a cellar nnd«r the
whole, <nd a well of water at the door ; also,
170 beaming apple-trees, and two orthiee arrrs
ol wate'ed meadow. There will be an indis
putable title given- Any petlon inclining to
puicliafe, may know the terms of laic by ap
plying to the Subfcribcr on the prennl> s.
MATTHEW CLARKE,
September 14, 1793.
Encyclopedia,
JUS? PUBLIC
By THOMAS DOBSON,
B >okfeller, at the Stone House, in Second"
street Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionary
Of A ts, Sciences, and MUceiiancous
on a Plan entirely new ;
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are digejled into the form of
Diftindl Treaties or Syfteins :
THIS volume contains principles of Leve l';,
Liberty, D.r&rine of Ligftc, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
don, Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetjfui, Males, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nic, with :* great variety of Biographical and
MifceManeous articles, iilhitrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number of families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. solicits the favor
ot* the fubfer'bers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poflible.
The tenth volum kof the Encyclopedia is
now presented to Ihe public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an imperfect state, some ac
count of the reason of that imperfediou fliouid
be >iven. On the Bth of September last, the
Publiiher had the misfortune of having his
Printing-office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials deflroyed,
and among other articles, the figures, with
which he was printing the tables of lo
garithms, belonging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence ot the tire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the neceflity of pub
lifhing the volume without these tables; but
hopes he shall be able to publish them with the
next volume which is now in considerable for-
end2\v.
t&frf.
wardnefs.
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
expressing his grateful acknowledgments t#
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to such ol the
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necelTity of
punctuality, both in taking up the volumes as
early a? poflible after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the lub
fcribers having got only one, two, three,
volumes, and i'everal volumes remain unpaid-
Thus the work hangs in all its different ft age t
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpaid lays the Publiftier under
very serious efihbarraffluent,and deprives him
of the use of many Thousands of Dollars whiefc
at this time would be of very eflential service.
For tlaefe reasons the Publilher finds himfelt
under the neceflitjr of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lpmes will be delivered but only to those who
take and pay to the time ot publication.
December 10. saw 11 J.
ADVERTISEMENT.
FOR the benefit of those who maybe con
cerned it may not be improper to notice,
lhat the United Stater, by their Ast of the 12th
of February 1793, ordered that all Claims of
the description therein mentioned, and which
originated previous to the 4th of March 1789 r
be profented at the Treasury on or before the
firft day of Mav 1794> oilier wife they will
<c for ever thereafter, be barred, and exclu
-44 dert from settlement or allowance.'' And
as there may be several Creditors of the Uni
ted States, holding Certificates or other Se
curities, which form a part of the Domestic
Debt, and who with to fubferihe to the Loaiv
they are reminded that the term for receiving
fubferiptions at the Treasury, is by the Act of
the United States, pafled the second of March
last, extended to the last day of June, 1794-
The following is an extaft from the Ast of
Limitation above referred to :
Section I. üße it enacted by the Senate
and House of Reprefentatites of the United
States of America, in Congress afTembled —
That all claims upon the United States, for
Services or Supplies, or for other cause, mat
ter or thing, furniflied or done, previous to
the 4th day of March 1789, whether founded
upon Certificates, or other written documents
from Public Officers or otherwise, which have
not already been barred by any Ast of Limi
tation, and which fliall not be prefentcd at
the Treasury before the firft day of May 1794»
shall for ever alter be barred and prefcribc-d
from settlement or allowance : Provided,
that nothing herein contained, fliall be con
strued to atfeft Loan-Office Certificates, Cer
tificates of Final Settlements, Indents of 111-
tereft, Balances entered in the books of the
register of the treasury commonly called regis
tered certificates,loans of monies obtained iu
foreign countries, or certificatesiflfued purfn
ant to rhe Ast, intitled u An Ast, making pro
vision for the Debt of the United States.
(£> Gentlemen, in pojfejfwn of Swfcription
papers for this Gazette, flff requefled to
tranfnit them to the Editor's Office.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printid by JOHN T'ENNO, No. 3,
(cr4»)
Vol. X.
ED,
BV WHICH
>outli Fourth-Street.