EVENING ADVE
[No. 19 of Vol. V.]
N O R R I S-C OU RT,
Bsck of the New Library, between Clielhut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY Worms hts friend's and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the hu/itfefV of s
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
_ Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or done in the moll
elegant manner, and with ctifparch.
Orders from tl»e country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
Just published,
And to be fold by Stewart & Cochran,
No. 34, South Second-street,
THE
United States Register,
For the Year 1794;
Containing, besides accurate and complete
lifts of all the Officers in the general, and the
principal Officers in the particular £i»v em
inent*, a' variety of information, ufeftiTf'or all
*U4&s. tf
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Stcond-Jlreet,
Seconddooc b?low the corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
»7 the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general AJforiment of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be disposed of on the lowed terms.
Dec. 23. mwW tf
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
By M. C A R E
No. 118,
A large and valuable collection oiBOOKS,
imported from London in the Mohawk.
Dec. 19.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths isf Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
yfn elegant AJfortment of
SILVER fcf PLATED WJRE,
JEWELLERY fineCUTLERY,
Which they will dispose of on the most reu
fonable terms- Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the jold and lilver
way, done as usual.
December 24.
NOTICE
IS hereby given, to the Members of the
Insurance Company of North-America,
That the third Inftalnient, being Two Dollars
on each (hare of the Stock, is to be paid, a
greeably to the Constitution, on the second
Monday [the 13th day] of January next: And
a Central Xiccftng of the Stockholders i* tube
Ueld on the succeeding day, for the purpose of
choosing Fifteen Qirtflorsy examining into the
Situation of the Company's Affairs, and ma
king such additional Rules and Regulations
as they (hall judge neceflary.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Secratary.
Dec. 16. niw&;>3. ij
MONEY borrowed 01 loaned, accounts da
ted or colle&cd, employers fuiied with
domestics, house rooms, boarding and lodging
rented, let or procured— soldier's, mariner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims on the
public ; (hares in the banks, in the canals, and
the turnpike road : certificates granted by the
public, and the old and late paper monies ;
notes of hand, bills, bonds and morgages, with
or without depofut—Bought, fold, or rego
ciated at No. 8, in south Sixth-street, below
Market-ftrect by FRANCIS WHITE,
What ranfa£t* business in th© public offices for
country people and others, by virtue ot a pow
er of attorney, or by perforral application.
December It. d
E. Oswald,
No. 156, Market-Street, South,
\ T the request of a number of friend',
Jl\. proposes publifliing The Independent
Gazetteer, twice a week, viz. %Veilnel'da>s
and Saturdays—to commence in January next,
if fufficient encoeragement offers
It will be publiflied 011 Paper and Types
equal to its present appearaflce. The sub
scription dollars per ann.
Advertisements not exceeding a square,
will be iulerted 4 times for 1 dollar-—every
continuance one fifth of a dollar. Those ex
ceeding a square, in the fame proportion.
Excellent CLARET,
111 fiogihcads and in ctfci of 50 boulct ach.
a l s a,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
BK TNG defiroua of cloGtig various commer-,
ciai coneerns, and tl*nt Ml powers hereto
fore granted relative to the f«)tnf should be n
voked,|and public no'ictf of it givenj. to prevent
any p<jfliLle mifUiktr ; I, the fubfcribrr, do hei<-
by m/ke known t6 all whom it may concern,
that -jil uowera and letters 0/ attorney, of evtfry
nature and extent. granted t>y me to any pfrf/n
ft persons, prior to the ast day .of July I a ft, to
for me or in my iumc in Am t. k 1 ca, are re
voked and made void#
r pHE undernamed commntee-, appointed bv
1 " THE SOCIETY for the INSTITU
TION and SUPPORT of FIRST-DAY or
SUNDAY SCHOOLS in the city of Philadel
phia and the dillt'& of South wark and the
Northern Lib'tties," to solicit further fubferip
tions for the support of the schools which the
said lociety have iftiblilhed, take the liberty to
re pre fen t to their fellow citizens—-
That, although the school« were suspended
during ihe penod of the late avrful calamity
with which our city and suburbs have been af
filed, they are now again opened lor the free
adm.fTiOn and education of poor children.
That, the nec< Ifiiy and rrafons fortheeftab
h foment of these schools are increased, from the
ctrcumftance of the latediftrtfs having left a
number of Orphans dcllitute of all the means
of education, save what the hand of benevolence
may administer.
Y,
That, Former experience has, mod pleafinglv,
verified the fondeit hopes of the friends of this
inftiiution, with regard to the progref* and ad
vancement of the children, who have heretofore
been under its care, in the ufelul branch** of
education which it has afforded. Referring to
this fact, and to the addtefs to the pubi c, on
this fubjeft, publifhcd in the nrwfpapers of this
city «n the third month last, when about eight
hundred and twenty children of both fexts had
partaken of the benefits afforded by the society,
and about three hundr d and twenty more were
th?o a&ually receiving inflruftion in their
schools, it now only remains to be observed,
that ihe funds of the society are grea'ly ineffi
cient to carry on their benevolent designs, and
that the committee formerly appointed to solicit
fubferiptions, conceived it needfary to decline
their applications to their fellow.citi7.erls for
ihcir afhllance iu favor of these schools, in order
that there might be no interruption from them
to the felicitations then made in behalf ot their
unfortunate brethren from Cape-Francois.
rntfr&rftf
The public aid is now therefore earneitly so
licited to support a cha»it-blr establishment, cal
culated upon (he principles of public and pu
vate good. The annual fubfeription for a mem
ber is but One Dollar; and icit prelumcd that
so finall a furo per annum cannot be bcLler dis
posed of, by those who can aftord it, than by
bellowing it as the price of the difFafiori of nfeful
knowledge among the poor and friendlef»,
Subfcnptipns and donations will be gratefully
received by the undernamed committoc on be
half of the society:
Friday, January 5, t 794.
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hoglheads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, Sftuih Front-ltrcet.
g dtf
Jin. 2, »794
NOTICE.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
New-Yoik, J/n. 1,1794. i!iw
TO THE PUBLIC.
F.benezer Large,
Jacob Cauffman,
Todd,
Peter Thompson,
Thomas P. Cope,
Jofcph Price,
Edward Pole,
James Hardie,
William Innis,
Benjamin Say,
Nathaniel Falconer,
Francis Bailey,
JelTe Sharplefs,
Samuel Scot ten,
Peter Barker.
Joseph James,
Jonathan Penrofe,
George Meade,
John Peiot,
John M'Cree,
Robert Ralfton,
Thomas Armat,
George William*,
Jan. 1
0 B SE R VAT lONS
ON THE
RIVER POTOMACK,
Trr Country Adjacent, and the
CITY OF WASHINGTON.
f Continued from our Itrjl.)
Upon examining the ground within the
above described limits, and taking into
consideration all circumstances, the Presi
dent fixed upon the spot upon which the
city has since been lafd out, as the moll
proper for ere&ing the public buildings
which areauthorifed to be prepared by the
foregoing act.
But the eastern branch being made one
of the boundaries, within which the diftridt
of ten miles square was to be laid out, an
AND
amendment to the preceding ast was
tl.iM ght neceffiuy, so as to include acon
«iii it part of. the said branch, and the
land on the narth-eaitern hue of it, within
the said diftrift of ten mile# square. A
formal ast for that purpose was according
ly paired on the 3d day of March, 179 1.
---By this means the Commissioners were
enabled so to lay off the diitrift of ten
miles square, that the center thereof is
made the center of the spot on which the
city is laid out, as nearly as the nature
and form of the ground of the city will
permit. The diftrift of ten miles square
thereby includes the river Potomack for
five miles above and the like distance below
the middle cf the city; and extends in the
"tate of Virginia about three miles over the
The whole area of the city consists of
upwards of four thousand acres.—The
ground, on an average, is about forty
feet above the water of the river. Although
the whole, when taken together, appears
to be nearly a leva! spot, yet it is found to
consist of what may be called wavy land;
and is fuffieiently uneven to give many verk
extensive and beautiful views from various
parts of it, as well as to effectually answer
every purpose of clcanfing and draiping the
city.
Two creeks enter the city, one from
the eastern branch, the other from the Po
tomack, and take i'uch directions as to be
made to communicate with each other by a
(hort canal.—By this means a water trans
portation, for heavy articles, is opened in
to (he heart of the city.
No place has greater advantage of wa
ter, either for the supply of the City or
for cleanllng the streets, than this ground.
The most obvious lource is from the head
waters of a creek which separates the city
from George-Town.—This creek takes
its 'rife in ground higher than the City,
arid can readily be conveyed to every part of
it.—But the grand objedt for this purpose,
which has been contemplated by those belt
acquainted with {lie country hereabouts,
and the circumstances attending it, and
which has been examined with an eye to
this purpose, by good judges, is the Poto
mack. The water of this river above the
Great-Falls, 14 miles from the city, is one
hundred and eight feet higher than the
tide-water. A small branch, called Watt's-
Branch, just above the falls, goes in a di
rection towards the city. From this branch
to the city a canal may be made (and the
ground admits of it very well) into which
the river, or any part of it, may be turned
and carried through the city.—By this
means the water may not only be carried
over the highest ground in the city—but
if necessary over the tops of the houfe6.
This operation appears so far from being
chimerical, that it is pronounced by good
judges, who have examined the ground
through, and over which it must pass, that
it may be eft'e&ed for perhaps less money
than it has and will coll the Potomack
company, to make the river navigable at
the Great and Little Falls, and to clear
the bed of the river between them..
Should this be effe&ed, the produce of
the country will naturally be broughtthro'
it ; and the situation afforded thereby for
mills and manufactories of every kind.that
require the aid of water, will be most ex
cellent, and comraenfurate with any ob
ject.
The public buildings for the accommo
dation of the Congress and the President
of the United States, are begun, and pro
gress with much spirit. They are on a
scale equal to the magnitudeof the objefta
for which they are preparing ; and will,
agreeable to the plans which have been a -
dopted, be executed in n style of archi
tecture, chaste, magnificent and beautiful.
They will be built with beautiful white
(lone ; which is pronounced certainly e
qual, if not superior, to the bell Port
land stone, by persons who have been long
experienced in working the firft quality of
Portland stone. The quantity of thi«
stone is fully equal to any demand that can
arifc from it. That ufcd for the public
fate
R T I S E R.
[Whole No. 477.]
buildings is from an illand about 40 miles
below the city, which has been purchased
by tlie CotrimilTioners, and from which,
and a tract or land tymg oil ilie nvcr in
the lieighborliood of it (the right of get
ting Hone from which, for 23 yvars, has
alio been purchaled by the eommifiionets,)
it is supposed that enough of this (tone
may be obtained to aiifv.vr every demand,
however great.
Besides the buildings for the t.L\on:mo
datiori of the government of the United
States, a very superb hotel is ere&ing, the
expence of which is defrayed by a lotte
ry, the hotel being the higheii prize.—
This building, with its accommodations
and dependencies, will perhaps be equal to
any of the kind in Europe. n
The original proprietors of the land on
which the city is laid out, in confederation
of the great benefits which they expect
ed to derive from the location of the city,
conveyed, in trust, to the Commifiioncrs.
for the ufeof the public, and far the piir
pofe of establishing the city, th« whole of
their refpe&ive lands which are included
within the lines of the city, upon condition,
that, after retaining for the public the
ground of the ftrects, and any number of
squares that the Prfcfident inay think pro
per for public improvements or other pub
lic uses, the lots (hall be fairly and equal
ly divided between the public and the
refpe&ive proprietors.
By this means the public "had a pollef-
Con of more than 10,000 lots, from which
funds are to be raised, to defray the ex
pence of the public buildings, (in addi
tion to f 52,000 dollars* given by the
Hates of Virginia and Maryland for that
purpose) and to efieft such other things
as it may be incumbent npon the public to
do in the eity.
Between three and four thousand lots
have been fold by the commissioners, and
the average price at their public sale* have
exceeded two hundred and forty dollars a
lot. The price of lots has already risen
very much, and a great increase of price
is (till expe&ed, at ths objett comes to be
more inveiligated, and belter understood.
After fui nifhing very ample funds for
the accompli(hment of every objedl in thi»
city, on the part of the public, a large
furplug of lots will remain the property
of the city, which hereafter may, and un
doubtedly will be lo applied,as to defray the
annual expences incident to the city ; and
the citizens, and their property', will he
forever free from a heavy tax, which is
unavoidable in other large citiee.
Among the many advantages which
will be derived to this city over almost all
other large cities, from the circumllance of
its being originally designed for the capi
tal of a great nation, may be ranked, as
the foremofl ; the width of the streets,
(none of which are less than ninety feet,
and from that to one hundred and sixty,)
and the attention which will be paid to le
velling or regulating the ltreets upon a
general principle, in the firft inilance, in
such a manner as to avoid any future in
convenience to such buildings as may be e
rected in the early establishment of the city,
and to give that declivity to them, in the
several parts of the city, whieh will readi
ly and effe&ually carry off all filth in the
common sewers. These circumftancej are
of the highest importance, as they affect
the health and the lives of the inhabi
tants.
Besides the advantage which the citv
of Washington will have, from its bcinrf
the feat of government of theUnitedStatcs,
from its being within a few miles of the
center of the territory of the United States,
from north to south, and ne?.vly the center
of population, and from the immediate
commerce of the Potomack, it will receive
an immefe benefit from its intercourse
with the coufifry Weft of the Allegany
mountains, through the Potomack, which
offers itfelf as the molt natural, and the
* Virginia 120,000, and Maryland
72,000.Beared 'channel of commercial intercoure
with that extensive and rich country.
At present, the land-carriage between
the navigable waters of the Monongahtla
{a fork of the Ohio) and; the navigable
waters of the is less tba.-1.4d
miles; and a good waggon rciad is open
between the fwei water:-.. Men of judg
ment on the iubjeel of inland navigation,
h?.ve examined the ground between the
branches of the Potoins-k,, and
those of the Ohio, and have been decidedly
of opinio!:, that the iar.d-cafiijige between
the two places where bouts nmv come to
each, can be red weed to fifteen n;.i!es; and
they have fcur.d nothing to convince thejn,
tl.at these v.-aters may not, hereafter, be
made to commnnunte with each other.
The lettlers on' t'fif Ohio and Mdlfippi,
«s ill of coflrfe carry their heavy produce to
a market down those rivers; but their re
turns wiil be mast natural through the Po
tomiack, for they cannot ascend the VVet
t -rn Water?, without great or
nuch loisof time ; the current there being
so rapid, that a (harp boat with fix oars
can fcarcdy ascend firteen miles a day.
[to bs continued.]
To the Editor of the General Advertiser.
Sir,
I have observed in some of your late
pipers certain ftrifturca on a fpcech of one
of the Mernbers of Congrcfs from Mas
sachusetts, which I consider both harsh
and immetitted, and, tending to prevent
that freedom of debate which has been so
wifely provided for
The writer's opinion and inferences are
by no means worthy of notice, otherwise
than as they fnew a difpolition to pervert
the truth, and abuse the liberty of the
press. That Member's chaia£ler as a
friend to genuine liberty and good go
vernment, is too well eftabliihed to be af
fected by such miftatements and scurrility,
as is contained in the paper of "Monday ;
neither is such a mode of writing calcu
lated to make a favorable impriifion on
the minds of many of your readers.
Paris of a sentence, or even of a fpscch,
may be fg stated by designing partisans as
to appear very exceptionable, and this is
believed to have been the cafe in the pre
sent instance ; because, independent of the
known principles of the member, some
people of chara&er who "were prefcnt,
declare they heard no expreflions that
would bear the ccnftruCtion which has
been attempted.
Gracchus fays 'f he would be unfaith
ful to his country, to let such sentiments
pass unnoticed in thi3 he claims some
merit to himfelf, while he pays but a poor
compliment to his friends in Congress,
who let such expreflions as he has stated,
pass without reprehension ; and to be a
ufefal watchman, he ought to pay more
attention to his recitals.
Per the Gazkttr of the United Statu.
Mr. Fenno,
According to the " opinion" of a wri
ter in the General Advert ifer, " on the
condudt that America ought to adopt in
future"—it appears that the wisdom of
this country would be evidenced in the
firft place, by throwing every thing into
confufion among ouifelves, and in the se
cond, by immediately plunging into a
war with all the world—our agents at home
and abroad are to be dismissed—and all
the measures which have given prosperity
to our country, and secured that prospe
rity by peace and domestic tranquility, are
to be subverted and overturned, if this
is the way to preserve our name in exist
ence as a nation, if this is the way to ena
ble us to help our friends, preserve our
peace, our liberties, and our independence
—then the modern do&rines of volunteer
quacks in politics which run counter to the
experience of man in all pad ages, ought
to prevail—ln vain have the people of A
merica fought for freedom, deliberated on
the best measures to secure the inestimable
jewel, and established a just, wife and com
petent government as the only mean con
ducive to that object—if, the nature of
our species is inverted, and confufion and
every evil work is the only preparative to
peace liberty and fafety—the politics of
maniacifm will not prevail, for the parti
zans of diforganifatum are not like Samp
son, willing to be crushed themselves in
the ruins they contemplate with so much
pleasure—Our Councils will not be influen
ced by hairbrained politicians who, rcfleft
ing 011 the fortunes which have been accu
mulated in the convulsions of Europe, are
anxiously demons of trying their hand in
tjiia happy retreat of freedom and peace.
Y. Z.
From the Columbian Gazetteer.
OBSERVATIONS.
The coldelt day iu December, 1789, in
this city, was the 20th of the month—
the Thermometer was 21 degrees. Fri
day miming hft being 10 1-2 degrees
colder. In Jan. 1790, the coldest day was
20 degrees—in February 9 degrees —in
March 6 degrees. By this the coldeit day
in the winter of 1790, wa» 41-2 degrees
colder than Friday morning last.
The coldest day in Philadelphia, in Jan.
1789, was 18 degrees—in February do. 7
degrees—in Jan. 1790, 12 degrees —in
Feb. do. 6 degrees—in March do. 3 deg.
in Dec. do. 6 degrees.
In Philadelphia, in Jan. 1791, 8 d<*g.|
in Feb. do. 5 deg.—in March do. 2 deg»
From the above remarks, being all I
could cofleft, we may not expecl to expe
rience but very little colder weather in the
' course of this winter, than was experien
ced the lail week.
On the zsd&24th ult. was held theexa
miuation of the several schools in the Tren
ton Academy. The scholars who had been
iludying Reading, Writing, Arithmetic
and Book-keeping, exhibited such proofs
of attention ar.d improvement, as were very
fatisfaftory to the trustees and visitors.
The Grammar school, under the care of
Mr. Whitefide, was examined in presence
of the Governor of the State, the Hon.
Isaac Smith, the Rev. Mr. Armftrongand
Samuel W. Stockton, Esq. who expreiTed
their approbation at the proficiency of the
students, several of whom diftinguilhed
themselves for their progress in the ma
thematics and natural pliilofophy.
A number of the (indents of this aca
demy have been fitted, from time to time,
to enter the junior chls in Princeton col
lege, with credit to themselves and their
tutors. Others have been qualified for
the mercantile and mechanical branches of
business, which arc here particularly at
tended to —and all, whofc morals are un
impeached, and who have made fufficient
proficiency, are entitled to a certificate,
under the fcal of the corporation, setting
forth the branches of literature which they
have fuccefsfufly studied.
Such is the healthfulnefs of the city of
Trenton, that not an in (lance of mortality
has happened since the firft establishment
of this academy, among the many scho
lars who have ccme hither to pursue therr
studies. This circumflance, added to the
eligibility of it? iituation, being on the post
and stage road from Philadelphia to New-
York, and the cheapncfs of boarding, ren
ders it' a desirable place for persons at a
distance to fend their children for the ru
diments of their education.
An Observer
There arc at present about eighty scho
lars in the several fchoolj: the house is in
complete repaii, and would accommodate
a much larger number with convenience.
As the schools arc under good regula
tions. and will be carefully attended to by
the trustees and visitors, it is hoped those
who may think proper to fend their chil
dren to this seminary will not be disap
pointed in their expectations.
For the G.iZETTf. of the United Sr.iTts.
To the SIEUR GENET, Minister
WHENCE it it, fir, that you alone,
among the diplomatic characters in America,,
have been felecled as the notorious object of
public animadversion ? Intercfting to vour
felf, as it is to Americans, this question
Mr; Genet, demands your attention.
G. BAKER.
New-York, 28th Dec. 1793.
TRENTON ACADEMY.
of France
In answer to this question, will you, in
the spirit of calumny and felf-admiration,
prefumc to fay, that the American press,
devoted to the cause of despotism, perse
cutes you as the martyr of liberty ? Inftcad
of thus yielding to the fedu&ions of pas
sion, rather, fir, for once, render homage
to the simplicity of truth, and refle6t whe
ther a more correct answer may not be
given ! Shall I mention one for your con
sideration ? Yet deem it not Angular, that
a person unpraftifed in the infidioufncls
of Courts, unversed in the sophistry of St.
Omers, and unambitious of rivaling you in
artincf, (hould give an answer very differ
ent from yourfelf, an answer which is plain,
simple, palpable. Tou alone, among the
diplomatic characters in America, ha-vc noto
ripujly offended agaittjl diplomatic propriety.
Delegated, as French miffipnary, to the
constituted government of the American
Republic, your mifTion, as relative to this
'government, was either a million of peace,
or a million of perfidy. What then has
been your conduit, as relative to the Ame
rican government Have not your pro
ceedings, instead of evincing a Minister 01
peace, branded you as the Apoltle of dif- .
cord ? And was such the purpose of the
nation whom you claim to represent ? No !
fir, however zealous you may be to ca
lumniate the French nation by confound
ing them with vourfelf, we acquit them of
the charge : Never can we believe that
the republicans of France would appro
bate a million of perfidy. To do juitice
to the French people, we mull then be
careful to discriminate between them, and
yourfelf. And, making this discrimina
tion, we are conflrained to regard lome of
your proceedings, fir, as meriting no flight
reprehension.
Could we totally abltratt your diplo
matic character from your proceedings,
while you hold and abuse that character,
»'e might regard your language aa but the
intemperate effufions of a felf-adminng
fciolill: And, in this abftrafted view, the
combination of fatuity and vanity, being
regarded a? innocuous, might afford mat
ter of transient mirth. But when, i« abu
sing your diplomatic trust, you claim t,hat
your language (hould be refpefted as t'ue
voiee of France, the fubjeft inllantly ai
fumes a very different afpeft ; and your
publilhcd declarations, whether refuiting
from ignorar.ee, vanity, fanaticifm, or per
fidy, become seriously interesting ty the
friends of true republicanism : For, whe
ther you betray the republican cause, from
ignorance, vanity, fanaticifm, or perfidy,
whether you betray it from want of wis
dom, or from want of honelty, Hill, fir,
you injure the cause which you ought to
benefit, and which, notwithstanding its be
ing profaned by your profeflions of devo
tion, is precious and facredto Americans.
" That you are not destitute of talent,"
ha 3 been already conceded in the address
which 1 presented to you, through the
Gazette, in consequence of the letter, of
the 13th of August, which you wrote tor
the press, and sent to the President. My
generosity, as one of the people, having made
you this concefiion while there appeared
some room for hoping that you would
listen to the voice of inltruftion and reform,
although your own own conduct has since
reduced you, in point of ehara£ter, to be
but a mcndicant penfiotier on the charity
of, public opinion, yet, while I scorn to
despoil the beggar, I scorn to revoke my
generous conceflion. But left, from your
pronenefs to eulogize yourfelf, you should
abuse this concefiion to your own injury,
let me remind you, that, in kind, as well
as In degree, talents are various. And, as
" you are not destitute of talent," so nei
ther was an ancient noted incendiary, one
trait of whose chara&er seems not altoge
ther inapplicable to yoUrfelf" Satis lo
qucnti#, fapientitc parum
Considering that a person in your station
ought not to be so ignorant of clallic lite
rature as you profefs to he of some of the
moil celebrated works on national law, al
though I do not question your profefled
ignorance, I now credit you as having the
ability to underiland a (hoi t sentence from
: I, accordingly, omit giving you
a version of this which I have just cited.
And, leaving it to your own moments of
temperate refle&ion, if ever you have any,
I observe, that the chara&er at large may
be worth your attention. You may find
it delineated by Salluft, in his hillory of
the Catalinarian -war. And, while you
are meditating on this fubjeft, let me urge
you to reflett, that, however much or
however long you may have abused our
patience, yet the incendiary, who makes
profefiions of virtue in the cause of vice,
and boaits of patriotism for the purposes
of sedition, will not eventually find more
support in America than your prototype
found in Rome.
The injtdioufnefs of your profejjions, the
illegitimacy of your doctrines, the audacity of
yourpretenfions, have conspired to provoke
and juftify typographical ftri&ures. Ap
pearing before the American public in the
novel' and amphibious character of typo
graphical Minister, your claims to public
animadversion are various, urgent, and un
rivalled. Whether we contemplate you as
the foi-difant oracle of national law, as the
expositor of the American Constitution, as
the exotic guardian of the sovereign people
of the United States, as the public accuser
of their constituted authorities ; or whe
ther wc contemplate you. as a diplomatic
Proteus transforming yourfelf inte a mul
tiplicity of shapes, and adopting -such V -
rious forms as you may think adapted t<>
aid your machinations —whetheryou adopt
the form of epiltolary correspondence, di
plomatic communication, consular protes
tation, circular address to American com
mittees of beneficence, circular inftru&ions
to French consuls, or any other form which
anarchial zeal may fuggelt; still, fir, we
find no cause to deny you tne character of
which you seem so ambitious, the charac
ter of an Apostle of Discord.
You may aft'eit a tremulons concern for
the Prcfideiit, and, with the modesty pe
culiar to yourfelf, profefs to the public,
as in your letter to Governor Moultrie,
your "grief at feeing General Washington,
that celebrated hero oj liberty, accessible to
men whose scheme: could only darken his glo
ry" But in vain may you expect that
such arts will delude the informed Ameri
caus. The weeping of the insidious cro
cadide deludes none but the ignorant.
If he has become the obje&of your pi
ty, General Washington is fallen indeed.
Are you so vain, Sir, as to imagine, that
his, or his country's glory depends on you?
Learn then to know thyfelf; and be af
furcd, that it is not the breath of Genet,
but the energy of truth, which fvvell# the
trumpet of fame.
After considering, that, in your letter
of the 2 7th of October to the Secretary of
State, you have charged President Wash
ington with usurping power which the
ennftitution does not allow him ; when we
further observe, that, through your sub
altern Dannery yon profefs, to the Exe
cutive of MafTachufctts, an anxious sensi
bility left holSlities ftiould interrupt " the
ever-dear fraternity v between " two nati
ons yet JiJlers," and that -you also at the
j fame time exhibit a manifcitcJ again ft our
National Executive ; the language of such
communications excites, in the American
mind, at once, contempt and indignation.
Ate we to b«* duped, or terrified, from the
maintenance of our own internal fovereigu
ty, by the insidious profeflions, or mena
ces of a diplomatic or consular di&ator ?
Will you, fir, fay, that there is danger
of hostilities between France and America?
If so, whence does this danger arise ?-—
Whence, but from functionaries who, in
trusted with affairs of France, abuse the
confidence of an high-spirited people ?—
Whence, but from such persons 33 your
felf?
Mr. Genet! will you, while Miaifter
of France, pretend to be ignorant, that
your Mailers have rcprefentedfederalifm at
the evil genius of anarchy of rebellion ot
royalifm, as a monfttr threatening dellruc
tion to the unity and indivisibility of the
Republic ? Did yon tlien, in ordering
Dannery to denounce the PreCdent, pur
pose to excite in America the very spirit
which has been excited at Marseilles, at
Lyons, at Toulon? Speak, Sir! what
was vour purpose in that infidious'denunci
ation ?—What, but to divide and command
the American People ? Accordingly, the
moment of our national difmiflion, would
have been the moment of your congratu
lating yourfelfas Di&ator over America.
Not to particularise ail the insidious
communications which you have been ea
ger to publish, and without now remark
ing on the illegality of the doctrines which
they contain, the publications alieady no
ticed, especially those relating to the affair
of Duplaine, fufficiently brand you as the
Apostle of Discord. And, on reviewing
the conduct of our public functionaries, and
considering your various insinuations and
direst charges again ft them, the mind is
impressed with one concluding sentiment.
To be the first of warriors, and
yet to be accused for being the friend of
peace, is the peculiar honor of Waftiing
ton ; an honor worthy the first func-
TIONARY OF THE FIRST REPUBLIC IN
the universe. Formanifefting himfelf
to be the vigilant friend of peace, as well
as the firm affertor of our national sover
eignty, he is honored by the approving
voice of his country, and has shared, with
other officers of our government, in your
calumnies, and in your honorable hatred.
ALFRED.
AMERICA.
JAMAICA, Nov. 9.
Uindecided Engagement.
Extract of a letter written on board the
privateer brig Eagle, Captain Ogie
dated at Cape Nichola Mole, October
28.
" Lad Thn' fciay noon, while in com
pany with the (loop Sufon, Capt. Young.we saw a vessel to windward, which qfter
a short time appeared to be a ship, & was
thought by Capt. Young, who was din
ing on board us to be the King, Grey. He
accordingly went on board h.s own vefTel,
and hoisted the private signal for that ship
but shortly afterwards hailed our captain,
and told him she was a merchant vessel,
and we consequently kept for her till with
in mufquet shot, tile Susan on her bow,
and we on her broadside.
" Capt. Young having fired a gun at
her, and hoisted English colours, the ship
hoisted National colours, —we then hoist
ed ours and gave her a broadside, which
was warmly returned, when a very heavy
cannonade ensued, -and continued about an
hour and an half, at the end of which the
Susan bore away. 4
" About ten minutes afterwards, we
also, finding her too heavv, bore away,
and the ship went in pursuit of the Susan,
a very dull sailor, with whom file soon
came up, and pouring a very heavy shower
of fliot, obliged her to strike.
" Two boats were dispatched on board
of Captain Young, and the (hip made af
ter us, and was coming up very faft,when
» shoal obliged her to haul up, and Jp.ve
ns tjme advantage ; (lie was however, a-
Loutdtilk wichin mulket (hot of up, and
fired 40 or JO Lulls at us, wliich did con
siderable damage, but the darkticfs en
creafing, (he fortunately loft fight of 11s.
" We now got fixed upon a rock, and
remained there, it blowing hard all the
time, and in momentary expectation of
being dashed to pieces, till half past 11,
when we got off, and immediately pro
ceeded" to this place to refit.
" Our fails, rigging, See. were great
ly damaged, and we received several shot
in the hull, two or three between wind gnd
water ; one ball in particular went direct
ly thro' the magazine, and shattered a
barrel of powder to pieces, but providen
tially did us no other injury.
" The ship had 18 long 12 and nine
pounders, and 200 men. We loft but 1
man in the adiion."
NEW-YORK, January !.■
Bermuda, Nov- 29.
WE, the Matters of American vefTcis
captured by the different Bermudian pri
vateers on our paflagc from the Weft In
dies, request it as a favor of you to pub
lish this our situation, as the molt speedy
method we have to make it known to our
owners and fellow-citizens, in cafe any of
our letters (hare the fame fate of all others
that fall into the privateers hands, viz.
I, Ship Robert, Weft, veiTel and car
go condemned.
2. Schooner Fair Lady, of Philadel
phia, Lillibridge, tlie cargo condemned
011 the Oath of a bov.
3. Brig Phoebe of Philadelphia, Wil
liams, the cargo condemaed.
4. Schooner York, of New Yferk, O'
Brien, libelled.
5. Schooner Betsey, of Ipfwich,Kir;:
man, ditto.
6. Brig Sukey, of Chavlefton, Earl,
do.
7. Sloop Crisis, of New-Haven, Bill,
do.
8. Slcop Amelia, of Philadelphia,Wil
liamfon, having come in dismasted, and a
pass on board from a British port, on con
ditions of Cgning an indemnifying bond
to the owners of a privateer, and repair
ing all damages himfelf.
9. Sloop Polly, of Philadelphia, Smith
libelled.
10. Schooner Atalanta, of New-Lon
don, Skinner, do.
11. Schooner Willing Maid, Wallace,
Note. When we arrive at the Bermu
das, and after anchoring in the stream a
short time, are boarded by a crew of Ber
mudiaris from the shore.
1 ft. Where there are pafTengers on board
they order the baggage on deck, and open
all trunks, cases, or any package or bun
dle, beds, &c. that they do find on board
said vessel, and take therefrom all books,
papers, money, watches, trinkets, pkte,
and cloathing in part, &c.
2d. They then proceed to feaich them
personally, without discrimination of age
or sex.
3d. Then turn them on fhorc to the
CommiHary of war, and proceed to haul
the vet Tel to the wharf: they then com
mence unloading her, at their own discre
tion, starting, boring, breaking, and de
stroying many things before them, at the
lame time turning the crew on fiiore, and
enlisting them on board their privateers.
Thcv will not permit the mailer, nor
any person belonging to the vefltl, to re
mind them of the deftmdtior) of the said
vefTel or her cargo ; but threaten destruc
tiOn to the mailer, which some have felt
the e.Tcfts of on this island. Nay thev
demand the maftei's money, difpofl'efs him
of his vessel, and no provision made for
him. All this is done by the owners of
the privateers, not under the infpeftiou
of the Marshal, and before any condem
nation takes place.
Therefore" we pray you will not neglect
to give this a speedy publication in your
papers ; in doing which you will oblige,
Dear Sirs,
In behalf of the whole,
Your very humble servants,
ROBERT LILLIBRIDGE,
JOHN EARLE,
Wm. WILLIAMSON,
JOHN SMITH,
M. MARTINEAU, Supercargo
of tJic schooner Fair Lady.
Signed in New York, 2 Bth Dec. 1793.
THOMAS O'BRYAN.
It appears bv Mr. Rittenhoufe's obser
vations in Philadelphia, that, the fuir.mer
pall, the Thermometer v.-as at and above
80 deg. 26 days 111 August and 9 in Sep
tember ; which makes 35 days in thofc
two months only. I have not seen any
cbfer.Ti.ious for May, June arid July last;
but probably the' heat was at and above
80 deg. eighty or ninety days in tlje
whole fcafon : an instance without prece
dent in America.
Extra ft from the Quebec Gazette of the
12th December
Friday morning died the Hon. William
Smith, Efq; one of his ntajfly's executive
council, fpeaher of the hgifiative council,
and chief of the province of Lower
Canada.
Mr, Smith was eminently dflinguiflted loth
for theJir.engl.l of his mental faculties and the
extent of his acquired talents, and was a cha
racter of which there are few examples, pq/fef
ed of a tenacious memory, quick conception
end found judgment, great classical, hiflori
cal and legal learning, and unwearied in his
application and attention to bufnefs, he was
in the executive government, in thefenate, and
in his judicial capacity, a nan of the firfl a
bilities, a public fpeaher of the firfl rank, and
undeniably the greatefl law character that //-
\ nuriea has produced.
To what he was in public he was equal in
private life, where the excellence of his under
flanding appeared in the brilliancy of his con
versation and writings, and the goodness of
his heart in every injlance of his conduli to
wards his family, hisfriends and focie.'y—he
died revered by those who had the pleasure of
his acquaintance, regretted by all, as a public
and irreparable loss —His remains were in
terred on Sunday, and were attended to the
gmveby his royal highness Prince Edward
the htn. the members of the Legijlative ar.d
Executive C uncils, and of the House of As
sembly, the officers of Government civil and
military, the officers of the garrison, and the
tr.cjl refpeftable and numerous concourse of ci
tizens ever wilnejfed on a similar occajion.
PITTSBURGH, Dec. 28.
Extratt of a letter from Fort Washington
dated Nov. 14., 1793, to a gentleman
in this town.
" I received a letter a few days ago
from the Falls, informing me that an ex-
pedition is there preparing against Louifi
ana,under the command of the well known
Gen. Clarke, who (fays my informant)
is appointed a major-general in the armies
of France, and commander in chief of
the French Revolutionary Legion on the
Mififiippi, &c. That a paymaster is actu
ally arrived with cash, and also some
French artillery officers, —40 odd boats on
a new conftruftion are to be built at that
place, as soon as possible—that blank com
miflions are sent to the General to be fil
led at his pleasure—that the Legion is to
be 011 a life eftablilhment, the fame a« in
France—that public plunder is to be re
linquished to the troops, and they are to
receive lands in the conquered country con
sonant to grade, and that after the war
they {hall not be liable to be called out of
the country, but are to garrison it.
BOSTON, Dec. 25.
The profpeft of peace, wa6 the report
of yesterday. Although we could not
trace it to any source to be relied on, we
(hall nevertheless give it as we heard it.—
It is, that the British packet had arrived
at Halifax, from England, and that letters
had been received at Halifax, by the pac
kefc, from Brook Watson, Esq. Paymas
ter-General of the Duke of York's army,
in the Netherlands, informing that the
National Convention of France had named
Commiflioners to treat with the Combi
ned Powers as to the object of the com
bination and invasion of France, and what
might be the preliminaries on which a
treaty of peace might be concluded ; that,
in confequenee of the answer given, Mr.
Watson was of opinion that a peac would
take place in the spring. Something
about the surrender of Brest was also re
ported ; but treated as idle.
There was also a report that Commis
sioners had left Brest, and had arrived in
England, for the purpose of agieeing on
the (uiTender of that port 0:1 the fame
conditions with that of T°u'on.
The packet is said to have left England
the 16th October.
December 26,
The vefiel which arrived at New-York
from Cadiz, we are informed, was sent by
Mr. Humphreys, our rrm.iller at Portu
gal. She was insured at 30 per ceat, vcf
fel, cargo, and crew; and a dollar was
paid for every letter (he brought.
Mr. Humphreys, we likewise are in
formed, was on his way, at the date of his
to Mequitttz., in the empire of Mo
inxx:-.is«*»4irr to effect if possible, a peace
■with the Algerines.
NEW-LONDON, Dec. 26.
IN every point of view, the present
crisis is highly interesting; it is devoutly
to bf -wj/hed, and the public voice is for
honorable Peacc with all the IVarid.
" The ear is pain'd,
The foul is sick with every day's report,
Of wrong and outrage with which this
earth is fill'd.
There is no flefh in man's obdurate heart,
It does not feel for man
Lands interfered by a narrow frith,
Abhor each other. Mountains interposed,
Make enemies of nations who had else
Like kindred drops been mingled into one."
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 3.
APPOINTME NT.
Edmund Randolph, to be Secretary of
State, in the room of Thomas Jefferion,
resigned the 31ft. ult.
Extract of a letter from Baltimore,
"An American vessel is just arrived
from Havre de Grace. Nothing has as yet
been published. It is however reported,
that every thing in France is in the heft
situation ; It is even said that Great Bri
tain and Prussia have been detached from
the Combination of Powers, and that wa
gers have been laid refpe&ing a peace."
The firft day of January was, 2mong
the Romans, consecrated to Janus, by an
offering of a cake made with new meal,
and new fait, with new frankincenfc and
new wine. On this day, a beginning was
made of every intended work ; the con
suls took poflfeffion of their office, and
with the flamens [priests] offered facrifi
ces and prayers for the prosperity of the
empire. All animosities were suspended,
and friends gave and received New-Year's
Gift. This practice of making presents
is flill continued; though the bejl part of
the Roman customs, the fufpenfwn of all
animo/ities, fcems to have fallen into disuse.
Am. Minerva.
A lift of all the arrivals at the port of
Philadelphia, for the year 1793.
163 Ships, 288 Snows and Brigs, 599
Schooners and Sloops.
Clearances for the fame period.
143 Ships, 258 Snows and Brigs, 690
Schooners and Sloops.
Married at Trenton, Mr. George Ro
zell, to Mif< Sally AxFOßD,.both of
that place.
At Brunfwick, N.J. Ellsha
Ayres, attorney at law of Morriftown,to
Miss Hannah Dennis, daughter of John
Dennis, Esq. of Brunfwick.
—; At New-York, Mr. John
Smith, merchant, to Mrs. Agness Wet
zell, eldest daughter of General William
Malcom, both of that city.
Died, at Baltimore, Mrs. Henrietta
Williamson, the amiable consort of
Mr. David Williamfon of that town, mer
chant.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES
Friday Jan. 3, ,1.794.
The petition of Thoma* Claxton, As-
Cftant Door-Keeper, wa3 Vead a second
time—and provision ordered pursuant to
the prayer thereof, to be paid out of the
fund appropriated to defray tin; contingent
expenses of the house.
Some other petitions were read refer
red.
The house then refojved itftjf into a
committee of the whole, Mr. Trumbull
in the chair, and took into consideration
the Report of tha Secrctarv of St:ne, re
lative to Foreign Commerce.
Mr. Madison, aftei fame iiitroduflary
observations on the State of tJjc Com
merce of the United States previous to
the adoption of the conllition, and subse
quent to that period—read a number of
isolations, the substance of which are
contained ri the Secretary's report: Their
principal ofr 1 ft is to provide, for an en
hancement of the Duties of Impost on
sundry goods, imported from couutries,
with which the United States have no
Commercial Treaty ; also, on the Ton-
iiSge of veftels of those Countries.—These
resolutions being read the committee rule
& reported progrefs-aud after considerable
debate on the qucftionfor an early, or dis
tant day to be affigncd for their difcuflion,
the house determined on next Mondav
week.
Mr. W. Smith moved the following re
solution, viz. That the Secretary of the
treasury, be directed to report to this
house, a comparative view of the foreign
tonnage employed in the commerce of the
United States, in the years 179 c, 1791,
and 1792.
2d. That he report the actual ft ate of
the American tonnage employed in the
commerce of the United States, with fo
reign nations, for one year.—These reso
lutions were agreecf to.
On motion, it was resolved, that the re
solutions brought forward by Mr. Madison,
(hould be printed.
Mr. Fitzfimons, laid a motion on the
table, for the appointment of a committee,
to report a bill providing for the regula
tion of pilots, and the prefc-rvation of light
hoiifes, &c. in the bay of Delaware.
In committee of tie whole, on the bill
providing for the renewal of loft certifi
cates of a certain description—Mr. Trum
bull in the cliair.
The bill was read by the clerk—and
considered by paragraphs.—The fir ft pro
vides for the renewal of loan office certi
ficates and final certificates, which have
been destroyed by accident—after foma
objections to the principle of tlx; bill, it
was moved that this paragraph fliould be
struck out—This motion was negatived-!— 1
The committee then rose and reported
progress and the house adjourned.
FROM A (.URKt D£A7'
In confirmation of the aiTertion tiiat
Great Britain made thetruce between the
Algerines and Portugal, it has been al
leged, that Great Britain is the guaran
tee of that truce. But it is known tiiaf
the latter fad comes from the famefourcc
as the former, a source which is not only
queftionable,but which'dei ived its informa
tion from doubtful authority; whereas the
intelligence of a contradictory nature is not
only more recent but comes from higher au
thority,& denies the agency of that nation
or the guarantee. The refufal of a convoy
is part of the fame story with the former,
and depends upon the fame authority. A
nother letter in town declares, that the
improper manner in which it was aflced was
the sole cause of any difficulty ; fee a let
ter published in this paper on Wednesday
last.
There are not wanting those who wifti
to plunge this country into a war with
Great Britain. Exaggerations and mis
representations will be ufeful weapons in
their hands; but the calm and the candid
require facts well authenticated before
they form opinions.
PRICE of. STOCKS.
Philadelphia, January 2, 1794.
6 per cents, 17/9 to 10a.
3 ditto, 9/10 to l of.
Deferred, 10/9 to 10d.
U. S. Bank, 10 per cent, advance.
N. A. ditto, 20 ditto ditto.
Pennsylvania do. 5 ditto ditto.
CCS" A meeting of the Stockholders of
the Bank of the United States, redding in
this city, is to be held, by adjournment,
at the City Tavern, this Evening, at fix
o'clock. January 3.Just Imported,
From Loudon, Dublin and GL.isaorr,
A d n>w opening for 'ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No* 118, Mnrkdt Jii'crt,
A la- t»e a«ul Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Amo.'ij; which are the following :
NEW AiKiual (legilter for 1792
European Magazine for the fiift fix
months of I 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Rinpire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Difnev's life of D r - Jortin
D'An vice's ancient geography
Tvlcmoirs rf Guy Joli
Vurlety, a co!le&i<m of eflays
King of PrclHa's works
Calin obierver—by Mackintosh
Ruflell's ancient and modern Europe
I-anghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, fuperblv gilt
Elegauu extracts of natural history
oaugmer and BriiTon's voyage
Kochon's voyage to Madagaic-F
T'ownfend's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerusalem delivered
S nellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Bnrfon abridged
History of birds
Pfiilips's history o r :nlaud navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, 111 3 vols.
Cnriofities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen IVlary
Sheridan's di&iorary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's dtfcription of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudlou's Bay
Preston 011 inafonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kifies of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Travels
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immarerialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chan don's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier'i defCriptioil of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on pol tical justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's /ketches of the history of mun
Liberal opinion;, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoule's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip ll'd. &: II!d.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruffia,Poland,&c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Kabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the' practice of mid-
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qnincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
NScholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia/Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Mallei's physiology
Spalanzane's diflertations
London pra&ice of physic
Bell's ftirgery
CHaptal's chemistry.
CC5* Terms of Subscription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid, half-yearly. Sulfcriptions of persons
who reside at a dijlance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advertifemrnt% of one square, or less, in
sertedfour times for One Dollar—once, for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line, and Subscrip
tions, will be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourth-Jlreet, Jive doors north of the
I/idian S>ueen.
A New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by
R. AIT KEN,
No. 22, MarketJlreet,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME-
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philadelphia, for promoting Ufeful
Knowledge, Vol. 3- Price zofinieards
(£3" The subscribers are requested to call
as above directed for the 3d vol. where may
be had, complete setts uniformly printed.
Contents of Vol. 3d.
I. An efTayon those enquiries in Natural Phi.
tofophy, which at prefeut are moll lienefici
al 16 the United States of North America.
Dr. Nicholas Collin,
3. Conje&ures concerning the forjjMtiou of
the earth, icc. Dr. IS. Franklin.
3. A new and curious theorf of Light and
Heat. Dr. B. Franklin.
4- Defcripton of the process to be oblerved
in niak'-'; large sheets of paper in the Chi
nrft manner, with one I'mooth furface.
Dr. B. Franklin.
5. Queries and conje&ures relative to Mag
natifm, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
0. Explanation of a lingular phenomenon, firft
oblerved by Dr Franklin, and not fatisfac
toi ily accounted for. Mr. K Fatterjon.
7. An account of an Earthy Substance found
near the r»f Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls ; together with
some remarks on the Falls.
Robert M'CauJJin, M. D.
8. Observations on the probabilities of the
duration of Human Life, and the progress
of population, in the United States of Ame
rica. William Barton, Esq.
9. A letter containing observations made at
Lake Erie, on that lingular phenomenon,
by feainen termed looming.
Andrew Ellicot EJq.
10. An Account of the Sugar Maple-Tree
of the United States, and of the methods
of obtaining Sugar from it, together with
observations upon the advantages both pul>
lic and private of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rujh, M.D.
11. Memoir on the use of the Thermometer
in difcoveting Banks, Soundings, &c.
Jonathan Pl'i/liams, EJq.
12. An Account of the moll efle&ual means
of preventing the deleterious consequences
ot the bite of the Crotalus Horridus, or Rat
tle Snake. Benjamin Smith Barton, M. D.
13. Magnetic Observations, made at the Uni
versity of Cambridge, (MufTachufetts.)
Dr. S. Willia.ns.
14. Accurate determination of the right af
cen.lon and declination of Bootes, ajid the
Pole Star. Andrew ElhcoU, Esq.
ij. Account of several Houses in Philadelphia,
ft ruck with Lightning, on June 7 th, 1789
David RittenhoU/t, Esq.
16. An Account of the eflefts of a (troke of
Lightning on a Houle furniflied with two
Conductors. David Rittenhtmfc, and Francis
Hupkinfon, Efqrs.
\-J. Experiments and Observations on Evapo
ration in cold Air. Q. Wijlar x M D.
18. Postscript to Mr. Barton's Letter, to
Dr. Rittcnhoufe, of the 17, of March, X7 o t .
19. New Notation of Music.
Mr. R. Patte'fan.
20. Observations on the Theory of Water
Mill*, &c. H\ Waring,
19. Aftroiiomical Observations.
David Rittcnhoufe,
20. A letter.relative to a method of finding
the sum of the several powers of the Sines,
&- c ' David Rittenlmufg l Efq,
21. Index Florae Lancaftrienfis.
Henrico Muhlenberg, D. /).
22. Jnveftigation of the power of Dr. Bar
ker s Mill, as improved by James Rum fey,
with a description of the mill. IV. Waring.
23. A Thermometrical Journal of the tem
perature of the Atmofpbere and Sea, on a
voyage to and from Oporto, withexplana
tory observations thereon.
Jonathan Williams, £Jf.
24. First memoir of observations on the plants
denominated Cryptogamick.
M. De Beauvois.
25. A letter, containing observations on the
ancient works of Art, the Native Inhabi
tants, &c. of the Western Country.
Major Jonathan Hurt.
26. An account of some of the principal dies
employed by ttie North American Indians.
Extracted by the late Mr. Hugh Martin.
27. An account of the beneficial effects of the
Cafiia Cbamsecrifta in recruiting worn-out
lands, and in enriching such as are natural
ly poor; together with a botanical descrip
tion of the plant.
James Green way of Virginia.
28. An account of a hill on the borders of
North Carolina, supposed to have been a
volcano, in a letter from a Continental of
ficer, to Dr. J. Greemvay, Virginia.
29. An Account of apoironou* plant, grow
ing spontaneously in the southern part of
Virginia. Extracted from a paper by
Dr. James Green wax, Virginia.
30. Description of a Machine for measuring a
ship's way. Francis lUpkinfon, EJq.
31. An Inquiry into the question, whether the
Apis Mellifica, or true Honey-Bee, is a na
tive of America. Benjamin Smith Barton,M.D.
32. An Account of a Comet.
David Rittenhovfe, EJq.
33- Cadmus or a Treatise on the Elements of
Written Language, illustrating, by a Philo
fopliical division of Speech, the power of
each character, thereby mutually fixing the
Orthography and Orthoepy. With an Eflav
011 the mode of teaching; the Deaf, or Suxd
and coi.fcquently Dumb, to fpeslr, by Wirt.
Thornton, M. D. Honored with tht* Ma
gellanic Gold Medal, by the Philosophical
Society, in December, 1792 N. B.
Cadmus is printed in a fine 8. vol. and fold
by the Publisher hereof.
34* Observations on the Theory, of Water-
Mills. H-'. Waring.
35. An Improvement on Metalic Conductors
or Lightning rods. Mr. Robert Patltrjon.
Honored with the Magellanic Premium, by
an Award of the Society in December 1792.
36. An easy and expeditious method of dis
sipating the noxious Vapour commonly
found in Wells and other subterraneous
places. tbenezer Robinson, Esq.
37* A method of draining Ponds in level
grounds. Jcj[c Higgins.
38. Observations on the severity of the win-
ter, 1779, ,780. Rev. Matthew Wilfoa.
39. A Description of a new Standard for
Weights and Meal'ures; io a letter from
Mr. John Cooke, of Tipperary in Ireland.
40, Description of a Sprino-BloCk, cleligned
to a (Tift a Vefiel in failing* Francis Hopkin
forty Esq. Honored with the Magellanic
Gold Medal, by an Award of the Society
in December 1790.
December 20.
ACOLLECTiON OF
Valuable BOOKS,
In sundry Language*, and on various Subjects,
Cotriifting chiefly of the mod recent,
correct, and elegant
LONDON EDITIONS,
Neatly bound and lettered,
Also, a variety of
Stationary,
FOR S > L E BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklio's Head, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet.
December 13- 3 C
ALL persons having any demand against
the Estate and Effe&s of Mrs. MARY
SINDR.EY, widow, late of Frankford, Ox
ford townftiip, in the State of Pennsylvania,
deceased; are desired to produce their ac
counts to Jacob Lekhek and Willi am Creed,
(in Frankford, aforefaid,) Excputors and Ad
ministrators of the above hi order for feitle
ment. And whoever is indebted to said Es
tate, See. are requested to make payment to
the aforefaid Adminiitratorsj on or before the
16th of March, 1794? or they will be dealt
with according to law.
Frankford, Dec. 16.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subferib«r intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b<gs leave to of
fer his Cervices to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
upon having it tranfafted with the uirnofll fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders frotn Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will he llriftlv
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
ADVERTISEMENT,
New-Jersey, )T> Y virtue of a Writ to me
Suilex County, if. J XJ diretted, ifluert out of
the High Court ot Chancery of New-Jersey, at
the suit of William Shipley againit John M:ng
andotliers; I (hall cxpofe to sale at Public Ven
due, on the sixth day of February next, between
the hours of Twelve and Five in the Aiteracon
of the fame day, on the Premifts, the followiug
described Tratt of Land, with its appurtenances,
fifuate in the Township of Oxford and County
of Sufiicx, beginning at a Chefnut Oak Tree, cor
ner of Daniel Cox's land, and Handing in the
line of a former fuivey made to Thomas Steven
son/ being marked with the Utter B. and thence
extending along Coxe's line (firftj south fifty de
giees weft fifty-five chains and feventy-five links
to a Black Oak Treecorner of Joseph Shippen's
land (second) south nine degrees and fifteen mi
nutes, weft ninety chains and sixty five links to
a forked White Oak Tree, marked with the let
ters H and B another of the~faid Shippen's cor
ners (third) tbence north eighty degrees, east one
hundred and forty-five chains, to a post on the
southerly fide of Paquaofte-Rtver, being aifo a
corner of John Reading's land (lourtb) thence
north thirty-nine degiees weft, owe hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place of beginning,
containing nine hundred and thirty acres with
the usual allowance for roads and high ways—
The fame Premises are within eight miles of the
River Delaware, and there is thereon a conveni
ent Grift Mill with two pair of Stones a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fuff.cient ftrcam of
inter for thetr use—a Dwelling House", Store
Houfr, and several final I buildings.
MARK THOMPSON, Sheriff.
Dated 22d day of July, 1793.
To be Sold,
AT P si IV A T £ SALF.,
A Valuable Lot of 16
Acres of LAND, lying on the great toad lead
ing fioin Princeton to Trenton, i j, miles from
Princeton; with a tan-yard, birk-boufe, beam
houfe and currying-ihop, a never failing ft.eam
of water running through the fame ; a good
dwelling-house, with an entry and two rooms
011 the lowerfloor, and three on the upper floor;
a kitchcn adjoining, with a cellar under the
whole, and a well of water at the door j also,
170 bearing apple-trees, and two or three acrei
ol wateted meadow. There will be in indif
putabletitle given- Any petlon inclining to
puichafe, may know the terms of lale by ap
plying to the Subscriber on the piemift-s.
MATTHEW CLARKK,
Srp'einber 1793. (ep4*j
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOB3ON,
Bookfrller, at the Stone Houle, in Second
' llreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionary
Of A"ts, Sciences, and Miscellaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are Jigejlcd into the form of
Diitinft Treaties or Syitems :
THIS volume contains principles ofLevels,
Liberty, Doflrine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, Hiflory of Lon
don, Longitude, Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illuilrated with Twen
ty two Copper plates*
As a number of families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
areretuined. T. Dobfon, Iblicits the favor
of the fubferibers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poilible.
eod2w.
The tenth rotuMi of the
now presented te the public; but as it makes
its appearance in an impcrfelt state, some ac
count of tbe reason of that imperfeflion Ihould
be given. On the Bth of September last, the
Publiflier had the misfortune of having hit
Printing-office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the nouns, with
which he was printing the tables or Lo-
Qarithms, belonging to the present
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not b® immediately
obtained, lie was under the neceflity of pub
lilhing the volume without the'is tablis; but
hopes he (hall be able to publifli them with the
next volume, which is now in considerable for-
wardnefs.
The Publiflier embraces this opportunity of
expressing his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time takes the li
berty of representing to fnch of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necessity of
punctuality, both in (akin;; up ihe volumes at
early as poilible after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the sub
scribers having got only one, two, three, Irt.
volumes, and fevers I volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in ail its different stager
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpaid lays the Publiflier under
very serious tiuhariaflinent, and deprives him
of the nfe of many Thoufands"f Dollars which
at this time would be of very essential fervlce.
For these reasons the Publiflier finds liimfelf
under the necessity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those wh«
take and pay to the time of publication.
t&ftf.
December 10.
Philadelphia, Nov. 21, 1703.
The Stockholders ofthc
BANK of the UNITED STATES, are hereby
informed, that according to the ftatuteof incor
poration, a General Election for Twenty-five
Directors, will be held at the Bank of the Uni
ted States, in the City of Philadelphia, on Mon
day the 6ih of January next, at ten o'clock in
the forenoon.
And pursuant to ihe eleventh fcftion of the
bye-laws, the Stockholders of the laid B?nk, are
hereby notilicd,to assemble in general meeting,
at the fame place, 011 Tuefilay the 7th day ot
January next, at five o'clock in the tveniog.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
SECOND Fundamental Aiticle—Not more
than 1 hret-fourths of the Direflors in office, ex
clufivc of the President, shall be eligible for the
next lucceeding year : But the Dire&or, who
fhaJi be President at the time of an election, may
alw ayt be re-ele&ed.
At a mtfttog of the D:reflors of the Infurancc
Company ol North Atactica, Not. 95, 1793.
Refilled,
THAT no transfer of (lock be made on the
books of this office between the 15th day
of June and (he firft Monday in July, and be
tween the 15th day of December and the fiitt
Monday of January foilowiug, in each year.
Extaft Irom the minutes,
Ebenezer Hazard, Sccreiary.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on.which th,c Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds,
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
December 16.
Cr Gentlemen, in poflefficn of Suifcription
papers for this Gazette, are requejied to
transmit them to the Editor's Office.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed »r JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South F;>urtk-Street.
Br nuiCH
sau'tij.
mw&Cto 6 Jan.
Enquire of the Editor.