-- » £2 ' -k -« J* „ * f A
*". . - *
'" *k ". ' ' ' " , ■'" 1 « * > * * '
EVENING A D VERT I S E R.
[No. ti6 of Vol. V.] Monday, April 28, 1794. [Whole No. 512.]
The following Certifi
es of the funded tW F ' Cent Slock <hC
Dom.tlic Dcbl otitic Unued Suits Uanding on
thebooksol ihr Tieafuiv of ih l»i<* United
Sutes, in the names of Donnald and Burton o
london, merchants, and signed by Joleph
'Nouife. Rcgifteirof f«id Trralury, to wit
N». 5476, dat - d s 4 h Augult 1792 tor 29,59
dollar, and 53 cenlS waß «ranfinitt cd from Lon
don 10 the (hip Peter, Paul Huffcy, m«fer,
bmirfd for New York, and has been left. —
The Subfcr\ber intending to apply to the 1 rca.
furyot the United States 10 have the fame re
newed, defiles all p 'rfons who are interested in
the fatd certtfieaie, to make their objections
thereto, if any they liavr.
Francis Macy.
Philid. March 27. o6w
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Maiket-Street,
An May on Slavery,
to exhibit in a new point of view
its rffefts on mof&h, aud the peace of
foctetSame fa£fcs and calculations 4'e pffrrtO
*ro prove the labor ol(jriemcn to "be much more
ffTodutlivi than th'at ot slaves ; that countries are
trcb, powerfol and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
Jjtfmr ; and hence tne n celery conclusion, that
(lavcry 15 irapoht'C as well *s unjust.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February 15.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfhtads -md in cases of 50 bottles each.
A L S O,
A few cases Charapaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA
in pipps, hogsheads and qtuuer casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front Ureet.
JlO. 2, 1794.
PIRACY!
{ p" THE schooner DELIGHi", the px -
** pertv «f Manu l Antonio Martin, of the It
land of Bona Vista, was on the 18th of Oc >
t»ber laft,while at anchor in the road of
tha< Itl&ndy forcibly entered and carried of
by JOHN DUNHAM, JOHN MURRAY, r.
roan by t e name of DODGE, and one other
name unknown.— This yeflei was fold
|oM. A. Mar;in, by ty'i.liam M'Neill, who
came to B"na Vista in her, from Madeira.—
She was built in the County of Matthews,
state of Virginia, and was registered at New-
York, the 16ft* April, 1793—'Her name wj
p in'ed.on her Item—Her dimenfians as sot -
Inxr-.: feet 6 inches keel, 16 fe-1 6 inch
be ,m, hold 6 feet 2 inches, lier burthen 54
tors.
At the time of their enteiing the vessel,
there was a black man on board by the name
of B.>lthazer,wh'om t*hey carried off
John Dunham was mate of the vetfe] undei"
Capt. MfN-iw, prior to the sale of her, a'ncj
the oflier persons were mariners. Dunham
is a married man, and has a family at Nan
tucker.
'The of the vessel confided of the sol
lowing article.^.—2 cases containing 74 pieces
; caf? Wi ne-Glalfes ; 1 bale containing
p pieces 3*oadch)th; j do. 9 d». 79 pieces
Cotton, (need.e worked)-—33 <10. do inferior,
2 of Sal 1; fae had feveii small arms and
some pifVf>ls.
If any person can give any information of
this ve'TeljOr any part of the property,To that
it Can be recovered, or t he offenders brought
04 jyOice, they are requested to inform Messrs.
Anthony and Son, Philadelphia ;
Mjr r ay and MuiMFORD, New-York ; Clark
and Nightingale, Providence; or Head
and Amort, Bolton.
March 17. dtw.
ESSENCE
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold ly Dr. Lee, Golden-
Square, London.
THE pub'ic is offered one of the mofl
efficacious and fafe medicines that ever ap
pealed, for that most excruciating pain, the
Tooth-Ache—the numerous itiftui;c«s of its
happy effe&s, in relieving the affli&ed, have
now brought it i®to u liverfal estimation ; it
not only relieves the tooth-ache, but is of the
vitmoft service in curing the SCURVY in the
Gums, in preventi ig the disagreeable fmel]
that is produced from unsound teeth, & wili
occasion a Jweet breath ; it I kewife prevent:
the teeth from decaying, and will be found
a general preserver of the Tbctk and Gum-,
Sold in Philadelphia only at
PeynteWs Stationary Store,
No. 2i, Second ftrtet.
Apnl 24. tutli&s 3W
.*' • *
For Amsterdam,
T_. The new fact-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
iH ADRIAN A,
mm—SZ. K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, wiH fall with
all convenient speed. For freight or passage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN ZETLAND-
N. B. will b<f landed in. Eijg
land if requiredj
March 6, 1794 riff
For Norfolk y Fredericks burgh,
John Earl, Master.
A llauiich good vefftl, will fail in a few
days. Fer freight or p ffage, apply to the
master on board at Chefnut street wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONY & SON.
March 31. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
J^^^jndromjghe,
John Moore y Master,
IS a stout good veflel, about two years o)d,
burthen 232 ton?, has only made thfee voy
and may be sent to sea at a finall ex
pence. Sh? tpay be seen at Vine-ftieet wharf,
aud the terms made known bv appl cation t
WHARTON r d LEWIS.
March 2i. dtt
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Hou/ej or Public
Offices,
Two brick 3 story Houses,
H AVING 6io ui m ea win fireplaces
beside garrets, si uate{ on the sou h wellcrly
ot Dock fttvet, between Pear and Walnu
lireets. Enquire of
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
April 17. tuth&stf
The Projits arising from t e following publi
cation are for the benefit of the Poor. '
Just pubHlhed, printed by R. Aitken anc:
Son, and fold by J. Crukfhank, VV. Young
T. Dobfon, and tjbe other Bool^fellers,
M I NUT E S
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed 011 tue i4tli September 1793, by
the Citizens of Philadelphia, the'Northen
L be. ties, and the Di<lrift of Southwark,
to attend to and alleviate the Cufferings oj
the afflictccJ with the Majignant Fever,pre
valent, in the City and its vicinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
A lift of persons admitted into the Hospi
tal at BuHi hill, (hewing the limes of theii
admilHon, death and difchai'ge.
Number of Houft s, Deaths, &c. in the
refpettive streets, alleys, and courts- in the
cty of Philadelphia, NOl them Liberties, and
Dill rift of Southwa>k.
A lift of the Interments in the Buria!
ground? in the city of Philadelphia, Northen:
Liberties, and D.ftrift of Souihwark, with a
meteorological account of the weather.
A Turn nn y of donations in cash andprov i
(ions, received from sundry persons and pla
ces, f(jr the us of the poor and affltfted.
April 2. d£w
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-ftieet wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
Afe<w bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Oznpburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
GlaJ's Ware, vi:z. Tumblers and Mugs, -va
rious Jtv.es.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c.
FOR SALE BY
! ' THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale
Ihouldapplication be made within a fetvdays ;
otherwise Jhe will take freight for Amjler
dam.
March 1, 1794. d—tf
I
—NO. 2t —
Second Jlreet, between Market and Chefnut
streets, Philadelphia.
POYNTELL'S
AMERICAN OF '
PAPER HANGINGS, !
WHERE he keeps up a constant stock of i
ten thousand pieces for sale, coniprifing eveiy (
variety of colours, in grounds and figures, oV ,
the moll modern tally patterns, tor eve
ry part of a house. The perfrftion attained
in this manufactory, jn peculiar neatnels of 1
wujkmanfhip, durability of colours, variety '
in designs, and good quality ot the paper, will i
be found to exceed any European papers at (
t ie fame moderate prices.
An alegant variety of rich fancy feftoon &
narrow burdei s, and of ltucco and other co
loured pannel papers.
Plain g ounds made to any colour or (hade. j
Wholesale orders for any quantity, from j
'he country or for exportation, executed on
. Ihort notice, on advantageous terms, on '
iifual oedit. 1
Ip addition to the above alfortment, he has :
beautiful variety of ,
French paper hangings
f very fu,)erior quality, (Paris manufactory)
vith a variety ps Hich Borders.
April 25 tuth&ssw 1
just" published,
AND T • 6E -SO.i p BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
No. 41, south Second street,
Extract of a letter from a gen
lein in A,merica.to a friend in England, on J
c Subject of Emigration—price j Bth of -i
■ dolia;.
Ecclefiq/lici l Eflab jjuments detrimental to
a State.
Price I 8 ot a Dollar.
A ril 2. m &f3w
Pennsylvania Hospital,
4th Mo:>th, J''i >794.
The Contributors are desired
f 1 attend the Election, to be held at ih
Hospital on the stu day of .the s'h Month
xt,at 3 o'clock in the afternoon ;to choose •>
velve Managsrs and a Triasvrer, for
the enfumg year:
' By order of a board of Managers.
Samuel Coates, clerk.
CONGRESS.
House of Reprefentatroes.
Thursday, April 24.
In committee of the whole house on the
bill to suspend the importation of certain
goods, wares, and merchandize; after
some difcufiion, Mr. Parker the Chairman
repotted, that the committee had, had the
billundercjnfideration, andmadeanam nd
mcnt thereto, which was twice read, and
agreed to by the house.
The biil was then further amended, and
on the queltion, that thefaid bill, togU i- '
er with the amendments, be engioffed and
read a third tim«.
It was resolved in the affirmative—
Yeas j7 —Nays 34.
Those who voted in tht affirmative, are
Meflrs. Armilrong, Bailey, Baldwin,
Beatty, Blount, Cadwalader, Carnes,
Chr'ftie, Claiborne, Clark, Coles, Dear
born, Dent, Findley, Giles, Gillefpie, Cil
man, Gregg, Griffin, Grove, Hancock,
Harrilon, Hartley, Heath, Hunter, Ir
vine, Locke, Lyman, Macon, Madison,
M' Dowell, Mebane, Montgomery, Moore,
P. Muhlenberg, Murray, Neville, New.
Nicholas, O r,Page,Parker, Pickens, Pres
ton, Ruthertord, Scott, Sherburne, Smi
lie, Israel Smith, Samuel Smith, Sprigg,
TreadweU, Venable, Walker, Williams,
Winn, and Wutfton.
Those who voted in the negative, ate,
Messrs- Ames, Shearjafhub Bourne, Ben
jamin Bourne, Cobb, Coffin, Coit, Dex
ter, Forrell, Foster, Gilbert, Gle. n, Gor
don, Hcifter, Hillhoufe, Hjndman, Kit
tera, Latimer, Learned, Lte, M ilbone,
Sedgwick, J. Smith, W. Smith, Swift,
Talbot, Thatcher, Tracy, Trumbull,
Van Alien, P. Wadfworth, J. Wadfworth,
Ward, Watts, aud Wingate.
[BY REQUEST.]
From the General Advertiser.
Mr. Bache,
I take the liberty of requesting you to
publish the following reply to a cruel and
calumniating charge against me, which
appeared in Mr. Oswalds paper of the 23d
instant, and which may be equally appli
cable to the authors of twoljmilar pieces,
whjch have been published in your gazette.
I will not descend to answer in detail, the
illiberal infinuatipns contained in them,
not doubting tljat the extract given, will
fully refute the felfe and ungenerous
charge. J. A.
Mr. Oswald,
The unfounded and illiberal attack
made upon me in your paper of the 23d
instant by an anonymous corrtfpondent,
who signs himfelf "one of the laity,"
obliges me from a regard to truth, as .well
as from a sincere desire to preserve the
character of an inoffenfive citizen, to con
tradict his assertions with refpeft to my
sermon preached on Easter day. This I
■cannot more effectually do, than by trans
cribing that part of it which he alludes to,
and which he call "an unprovoked attack
upon a great and magnanimous people,
not warrantable on the score of policy,or
even of common civility."
I afTure you upon my honor, that the
f illowing extract contains the -whole of
ti)e only pait of the sermon, which it can
poflibly be supposed the layman refers to,
and is verbatim as I delivered it from the
pulpit. The occasion naturally led me
to insist upon the great chriitian doctrines
of the reftirreCtion and a future itate of
existence, which having endeavored to e
lucidate, 1 enforced with this recommen
dation :
" Let then the expectation of this eter
nal life, excite our daily preparations for
it. Let the employments of our future
jlate be the principal iubjeCt of our con
templation in the prefentr; and whether
prosperity or Sdverfity be our lot in
life, let us run with patience the race -which
it set before us ; locking unto Jesus, the au
thor and finijher of our faith who hath de
livered us from the dread of annihilation,
and given us the assurance of an everlast
ing existence.
" Let us put on the whole armour of
God, and resolutely (land as christian sol
diers, in the breach which the insolence of
Deism, and the iniVious delusions of a falfe
philosophy, have lately made in the walls
of the sanCtuary ; let usv'g Inntly guardja
gainft the introduction of that {hocking
tenet, which is jiow, alas ! the fafliionable
though fatal doCtrine in a nation, who
once gloried in the name of christians, scut
who having extinguished the light of the
blefied gospel, in mercy given to "conduCt
them to ever lasting bliss, now grope in
the dark, and madly conceive that the ac
tions of the present life, shall at its dose,
be forgotten in an everl i.Hng fle-p.
"To be no more—fad cure! For who
would lpfe
This intellectual Being,
Those thoughtß which wander thro' eter
nity,
To pe ifh rather, swallowed up and loft
In the wide womb of uncreated night,
Devoid of sense and motion ?—
Milton's P. L. B- 2. L. 146.
Dreadful delusion 1 which that we may a
void, let us eagerly avail ourselves of all
those means of grace, which the benevo
lence of Providence hath granted us, to
Hrengthen and confirm our faith, and
thereby to conduit us into the kingdom
of Heaven."
How far the charge against me is
founded on the above extraCt, I leave the
candid to deteimine.
" This son of the cassock, fays the au
thor, told us, that the French had re
nounced their allegiance to the Supreme
Ruler of the Universe—that Satan had
, ercCted his standard in that country —and
that the whole nation I>s4 Cnlifted under
tiis banner."\
To praft'ee meakr.efs, forbearance
id charity, fays the Layman, istHtf duty
•f-all uankind, and particularly belongs
to those persons, who call therrffelves the
servants of God, and the successors of the
Apostles."
This is certainly true, and it is also
true, that it is the duty of a Christian
Minister, to warn the people whom he
addresses, against the introduction of all
such principles, as would inevitably sub
vert not only their temporal, but Eter
nal happiness.
JAMES ABERCROMBIE.
1 have signed my name to the above,
because the attack was so pointed, that the
reader could not mistake its application.
Cong reft of the United States.
IN SENATE,
Wcdnefday, April 9.
The hon. John Henry from the state
of Maryland attended.
A message from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk :
" Mr. Prefideiit—The House of Re
prefentativea have passed the following
bills, to which severally, they desire the
concurrence of the Senate—a bill, enti
tled, " an ast allowing Lieutenant Colo
nel Toufard an equivalent for his pension
for life," A bill, entitled, " an ast for
the relief of Leffert Lefferts and others"
a bill, entitled, " an ast to authorise
Ephraim Ivimbevly to locate the land war
rant issued to him for services in the late
American army," and a bill, entitled, "an
ast for erecting a light-house on the island
of Seguin, in the diftrift of Maine"—
" The Pjefident of the United States |
hath notified the House of Representatives,
that he did on the Jth instant, approve
and sign, " an ast to provide for placing
buoys on certain rocks off the harbor of
New-London, and in Providence river,
and other places."—And he withdrew.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
prsfentatives for concurrence, entitled,
"an ast allowing Lieutenant Colonel
TouCird an equivalent for his pension for
life," was read the firft time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" an ast for the relief of Leffert Lefferts
and others," was re?d the firft time.
Ordered, That this hill pass to the se
cond reading.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" an ast to authßrife Ephraim Kimberly
to locate the land warrant issued to him for
services in the late American army," was
read the firft time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the fe-
cond reading.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
V an ast for erecting a light-houfc on the
iiland ofSeguin,in the diftrift of Maine,"
waaread the firft time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the fe
cond readed.
' 1 ... . »^«<
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
norrow morning.
Thursday, April 10.
A message from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk :
" Mr. President—The House of Re
presentatives agree to the amendments of
the Senate to the bill, entitled, " an ast
limiting the time for presenting claims for
deitroyed certificates of certain descrip
tions."—And he withdrew.
Mr. Vining reported from the commit
tee on enrolled bills, that they had exa
mined the bill, entitled, " an ast limiting
the time for presenting claims for destroy
ed certificates of certain descriptions," and
that it was duly enrolled.
A message from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk :
" Mr. President—The Speaker of the
House of Representatives having signed
an enrolled bill, I am directed to bring it
to the senate for the signature of the Vice-
President."—And he withdrew.
The Vic£-Prefident signed the enrolled
bill, entitled, "an ast limiting the time
for presenting claims for destroyed certifi
cates of certain descriptions," and it was
delivered to the committee to be laid be
fore the President of the United States
for his approbation.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" an ast allov i.ig Lieutenant Colonel Tou
fatd an eqaivalenffor his pension for life,"
was read the <econd tim«.
Ordered, That this bill be referred to
'Mr. Taylqr, Mr. Br&dley, anil Mr. EUf-.
worth, to consider and report thereon to
the Senate.
The bill, lent from the House of Re
irefentativcs for concurrence, entitled,
• an ast for the relief of Leffert LefFerts
ind others,'' was read the second time.
Ordered, That this bill pals to the third
reading.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" an ast for erecting a light house on the
island of Seguin, in the diitridt of Maine,"
was read the second time.
On motion to add the following clause
as an amendment to the bill to wit:
" And also to provide by con t raft for
building a light-house on the island of
Cumberland at the entrance of the river
St. Mary's in the state of Georgia"—
Ordered, That the bill together with
the amendment proposed thereto, be re
ferred to Mr. Cabot, Mr. Jackson and
Mr. Rutherfurd, to coniider and report
thereon to the Senate.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives foi concurrence, entitled,
" an ast to authorise Ephraim Kimberly
to locate the land warrant iflued to him
for services in the late American army,"
was read the second time.
Otdered, That this bill be referred to
Mr. Mitchell, Mr. Brown, and Mr. Mon
roe, to cehfider and report thereon to the
Senate.
The Senate, adjourned to 11 o'clock
to-morrow mprning.
Friday,' April 11.
The Senate affembltd, and the several
committees not having perfected their re
ports —
On motion,
' J
Tlie Senate adjourned until Moaday
next at 11 o'clock in the morning.
Monday, April 14.
The Vice-President laid beiore the Se
nate a letter from the Secretary for the
department of Treasury with a general
(latement of exports from the United
States for one year, ending 011 tRe 30th
day of September 1793 ; which were read.
Ordered, That they lie for considera
tion.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled " an
ast for the relief of Leffert Lefterts and
others," was read the tßtrd time.
Resolved, That this bill pass—
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the House of Representatives with the
concurrence of the Senate in this bill.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Tuesday, April IJ, 1794.
Mr. Mitchell from the committee to
whom was referred the bill, entitled, " An
ast to authorize Ephraim Kimberly to lo
cate the land warrant lfiued to him for
services in the late American army," re
ported that it pass without amencjment,
and the report being adopted.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the
third reading.
The following written meflage was re
ceived from the President of the Unitei
States by Mr. Dandridge his Secretary.
United States, April 15, 1794.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of
the Houfeof Rcprefentatives,
I lay before you a letter from the Mi
lifter plenipotentiary of his Britannic Ma
jesty to the Secretary of slate ; a letter
from the Secretary of the territory south
of the river Ohio, enclosing an ordinance
and proclamation of the Governor there
of j the translation of so much of a peti
tion of the inhabitants of Poll Vincennes,
addressed to the President, as relates to
Congress ; and certain dispatches lately
received from ourCommiffioners
—-These dispatches from Madrid being a
part of a bulinefs, which has been hither
to deemed confident, thty are forwarded
under that view.
G. WASHINGTON.
The mefiage and papers therein referred
to were read.
Ordered, That they lie for considera
tion.
After the consideration of the execu
tive business,
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
Foreign Intelligence
BRITISH QUARTERS IN FLAN
DERS.
Wevilgaam, Jannary 20. ,
WE took this poiition'a few days since,
in consequence of some movements made
,by the enen»y, to attack Menin and
Contrary. —This village is situated be
tween thdfe towfis nearly an equal dill a ace
from each ; .and we can instantly assist ei
ther in Cafe of an attack, an event we
hourly look for. Four regiments of ca
valry from Ghent are stationed here, with
some infantry of the 14th; the 34th' And
53d" are to take this duty next Month.
Notwitftnnding the proximity of this
place with the French Frontiers and that
the inhabitants have been twice plundered
the are engaged with as much
zeal in their agricultural avocations as the
' hufbandmeri in England who sow with the
conviction of reaping also. The village
is charmingly lituated, and the adjacent
country richly cultivated.
A. few days ago, an Austrian piquet of
20 men, with two or three Britilh light
dragoons, which had advanced too far into
French Flanders, without leaving centi
nels behind them, were surrounded by a
party of the Carmagnols ; a smart action
ensued, but terminated in favour of the
enemy ; some were killed, and the Survi
vors were made prisoners.
WORMS, February 8.
The French are again advancing in great
force, and already in poffeflion of Oggerf
heim ; a great number of fugitives are
therefore again daily passing the Rhine to
escape from the rage of those republicans.
TREVES, February 6.
A person who arrived here from Lux
emburg this day informs us that ihe inha
bitants have received orders to proviiion
themselves f«>r three months, and that all
ft rangers had been ordered to quit the city
in 24 hours.
Fifteen thousand French threaten Mer
zig, and another column of 40,000 men
is on its march from Thionville against
Luxembourg.'
FRANKENTHAL, Feb. ro.
The hostages whom the French carried
from hence to Landau, returned hither
the day before yesterday to the great fatis
faftion of our citizens. The cordon form
ed by the German troops on the left bank
of the Rhine extends at present from
Mentz to Mundenheim where 400 Aullri
ans took pod yesterday. It is said that
the French at present intend to entrench
themselves along Spirebach, from Spires to
Newftadt, and that they have a design to
unite the grand Bailliwick of Germer
lheim to the French Republic.
LONDON, March I.
HAUT TON.
On Saturday morning, in consequence
of the necessary official documents from
the Right Reverend Father in God, the
Bishop of London, to the Dean of the
Arches, a suit was instituted in Doctors
Commons, at the instance of the King.
This suit is to set aside a marriage
which has for some months occupied much
of the female conversation in the upper
circles. It is that of Prince Augustus
Frederick with a Lady Elizabeth M y,
which about ten months ago, took place
in Italy. It is also rumoured, that this
curious affair will be followed by another
equally novel, in which a young gentle
man nearly allied to his Royal Highness
is implicated.
The proceedings are founded on the
ast which was pafled subsequent to the
marriage of the Dukes of Gloucester and
Cumberland, for the purpose of prevent
ing in future the Blood Royal from be
ing prophaned by mingling with that of
the Swinish Multitude.
Lady E. M y came from Leghorn,
we hear, in one of the lalt veflels from
thence. On the arrival of the (hijt on the
coafl of England, {he wrote to Lord
Grenville, stating her marriage, and re
queuing to be extmpt from the usual form
of quarantine, being far advanced in her
pregnancy. Her request being instantly
complied with, her Ladyftiip hastened to
town, and was a second time condu&ed
to the Altar, where the sacred ccremony
was a second time performed.
The Duke of Montrofe bantering Mr.
Pitt, on his intended tax on carriages and
horses, at Lord Chancellor's late feaft,
observed, " Do what you will, Pitt, his
Majelty and myfelf will drive more car T
riagcs and horses free of expence, than
any other two persons in England,"—
" Aye," replied the Heaven-born Minis
ter, (looking at the Duke of Portland and
Mr. Powis) " that; you might do, but 1
will take care to drive more ajfes I"
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 28.
A eonefpondtnt fays, the letter from
t}ie American Captains at Bourdeaux, to
their deputies at Paris, exhibits an affect
ing recital of the diftrefles of a large num
ber of American Citizens—he queries
whether the humanity and justice of this
country are not pledged to make immedi
ate provision to enable those unfortunate
men to return to their own country, should
the embargo, which has plunged them in
to their present destitute situation be ta
ken off ?
Are the Clergy to be browbeaten and
calumniated for pointing out the dange
rous tendency of Atheism in a foreign
coantry ? Is it not their duty to guard
against the corruption of morals and the
prostration of all religious principles, by
exhorting their congregations to prefevere
in the ways of truth and virtue ? The
Clergy may err, it is admitted.—lt may
j be that what France is doing, is to encou
rage religious faith, and the practice of
virtue—But they mult preach as they be
lieve, unless like the Paragraphift in the
General Advertiser, they make the truth
a matter of indifference as.many exam
ples, and one recent one, have (hewn.—
Go on, Gentlemen of the Clergy, you
have the refpeft of a Public, not yet as
deeply corrupted as your Calumniators.
On Saturday morning expired, from the
wounds receive i by a light waggon's run
ning over it on Thnrfday laft,a child of Mr.
Brown in south Fourth ilrest, about three
years old.
As the Tragedy of Hamlet is "e> be repeat
ed, an Obferi er would suggest the correc
tion of several small oversights; errors which
appear trifling at firft, are often of great
confequtnce. "Was not the character oi Po
lonius particularly defective ? Mr. Morris
is in general an excellent performer, yet here
he certainly over a<fied his part: Polonii.s
alth'o' a very conceited, pragmatical, opinion
ated old man, Ihould never excite the laugh
ter which wps occasioned, more particularly
when he s killed.
In the firft a<3, the centinels were not per
fect in their parts—The cock did not crow,
on (he disappearing of the Gholt; the Glioft
did not in time, on the proposal of the »
oath —The elegant soliloquy of the VlinyW
was omitted, and the larger part of the
Player King's fpeech—Ofrick's dress was
too finical, and his part over a (fled. Mr.
F{nnel did not perhaps express fufficient
surprize, on learning Ophelia's death, and
the bowls of wine and the rapiers would
have been more properly arranged on a table,
These things if corrected, will render the
exhibition much - more pleasing: But when
we set th'.m aside, and consider the perform
ance of Mr. Fennel and Mrs. Marlhall, v.';
mult pronounce it superior to any thing yet
exhibited.
Mrs. Marshall had exhibited before, so
well, that all further 'improvement was sup
posed to be precluded,.but her appearance in
Ophelia beggars all praise.
A Cerrefpondent Sayj,
Whether it is incumbent on the officers
the police of this city, to take some ef
fc&nal measures to guard the lives ana limbs
of the citizens, old and ycung, from the
dangers and accidents to which they are
exposed, and from which they very fre
quently fuffer, thro' the carelelmefs of dray
men, carmen, waggoners, coachmen and
others, who drive carriages thro* our streets
in an unlawful manner, the fad experience
of many leaves no room to doubt. Two or
three very melancholy instances have occured
jn the course of the lait week, of children
being run over, and lhockingly bruised—
some have been so 1 adly injured, that their
lives are almost despaired of. A perlon can
scarcely walk the streets without witnessing
the most wanton deportment on the part of
i'ervants and others, who gallop thro' the
streets and turn corners with such rapidity as
to hazard the lives of foot paflengers, who
cannot be apprized of their danger, till mif
chief overtakes them; surely these things
ought not to be.
At a stated meeting of the American
Philosophical Society, held on Friday last,
the following gentlemen were duly elefled
Members of that Society, viz.
Thomas Mann Randolph, of Martictllo
in Virginia.
James Anderfon, L. L. D. of Cotfkld,
Scotland.
The Earl of Buchan, P. S. S. A. of Scot
land.
Dr. James Greenway, of Dinwiddie coun
ty, Virginia.
Edward Stevens, M. D. F. R. S. of Edin
burgh, &c. ef St. Croix.
John Nancarrow, of Philadelphia.
Eberhard Augustus William Zimmerman,
ProfelTor cf Mathematics, Natural Philofo
4-
spil - •-"» fSy, ini Natural HI {lory, in the Caroline
College of Brurifwick.
LxtraA from tlie M'nutes,
R. Patterson, Secretary.
April 21.
Capt. Erwin, of the brig Hope, in 23
days from Grenada, informs that he left
there about 12 fail of American veflels.
He further informs that the.y have giv
en up every idea of committing any furth
er depredations on the American com
merce, and it was generally believed that
restitution would be made
The Courier Francois of this morning
contains an account said to be conveyed by
a letter, dated, under fail, in fight of Cape
Henry, 17th inft. That an Ame ican ves
sel from Gibraltar, brings a report and
affirmation, that the Spaniards have de
manded a suspension oi arms —that they
have declared in favor of France againit
England, and have already made prepara
tions to btliege Gibraltar.
Accounts, printed and verbal, receiv
ed by the fiii'p William Finn are, That
in France immense exertions weie making
to prosecute the war agamit the combined
powers—that innumerable multitudes were
marching from all quarteis to reinforce
their armies on the f.ontiers—that Valen
eiewieß was-befieged by the French, and
that it had'been lummoned to surrender,
in peremptory terms —that general tran
quility prevailed in France, except in La
Veirdee, where the iufurgents were again
in motion—that the agriculture of the
country was in a fiojurifhing state—that in
England, and on the Continent the great
est preparations were made to prosecute
the war against France —that the duke of
York had from England, and had
arrived at Courtray, where he had fixed
his Head-Quarters —that the ensuing cam
paign was expected to be the mod vigor
ous on all udes fmcy the commencement
of the war.
The British ministerial inftrudtions of
the 6th November were universally repro
bated in Great Britain—Accounts of the
depredations on the American commerce
bad reached England, and excited the
greatefl alarm among the Merchants.
It wis very generally said, that com
pensation would be made by the British
government for the lofTes the United States
had so unjustly fufbiined by the plunder
v f the British cruisers. Aftimtg other re
ports it is said, that the King of Eng
land has relapsed into a state of infailit)
—what 'gave rife to this conjecture is
his being frequently canitil to the Thea
tre of iate.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 26.
The following is tranjlated from a French
paper of the 17 th February, for the Ne<w-
Tni k Daily Gazette.
Proclamation of the Citizen Piehegru,
General, Commander in Chief of the
Army of the North, to his Fellow-
Soldiers.
Comrades !
IN accepting the command of the Ar
my I iely lets on my own talents than on
your courage and the fpuit of Liberty
which presides over our arms. We have
purged the fun of republicanism of thole
spots with which its fuvface was polluted
1 by the united bands of titled villains.—
Our brave republicans have seen their ene
mies fly, before them, and . there remains
but a f.natl portion 0} our territory taint
ed by their machinations, but by the ex
ertion of our united efforts we must loon
accomplish their total ruin. We fight for
freedom, and I flatter myfelf we will not
fight in vain. - Yet a mutual confidence is
necessary to infuieour success—a volunta
ry union of talents and inclination. E
very man must redouble his efforts to aug
ment our means. You, brave veterans
who have been lignalized in battle, give
to our young foldieis all necessary inltruc
tion, that they may soon follow you to
the field of glory ! Let the recital of
your anions inftiil in their minds to an ea
ger delirc toimitateyourcondufl. Ailume
no superiority but that to which dangers
have entitled you, and which dangers
tney are willing to divide.
And you, young citizens, who aie cal
led upon to defend your country, show
youilelves zealous of laudable inftru£b*on,
that you may be enabled to fulfil your
glorious task. Be all friends of order and
necessary subordination, without which
'tis impofiible to succeed. What talents
1 possess shall be devoted to your service ;
but I am a frank Republican, if you do
not proceed well I will tell you iof and
recall you to order. If I should happen
to devidie from the line 1 eaineftly invite
you to copy my example. I (hall always
regard your councils as teftirfionieff of
friendfhip, and you will discover the pu
rity of my intentions by my ctonftant afii
duity. Let us all pursue the fame path
and we must lucceed.—Five la Repubhque.
PICHEGRU.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
GHENT, February 18.
There are various reports relative to our
plan of cperations, but that " which carries
with it tnoft probability is, that the Britilh,
Dutch, and Hanoverians, with 12 or 14,000
Auftrians, under the command of the Duke
of York, will, guard the frontiers of W-ft
Flanders; while the Imperial army, under
Prince Cobourg, will recommence its opera
tions against Bouchain, where it is under
llood the principal army of the enemy is
polted.
PARIS, February 16.
The Revolutionary Tribunal has condem
ned to transportation for life, seven Nuns,
for having concealed in their houses some
non-juring Priests, and refufed themselves
to take the oath to liberty.
The French have entirely evacuated the
Duchy of Deux Fonts, and have dtfifted
roni eroding batteries at Pirmafens: they
it every point indicate a disposition to retreat.
By the Corunna mails, two of which have
arrived together, Intelligence is said to have
been brought, that diredtly contradicts a late
itatem-nt published in France, of a victory
having been obtained by the Conventional
troops 011 ;he fide of the Pyreilnees ; we do
not, however, learn, that Perpigr.an i 3 takeu
by the Spaniards, as lately reported in the
Italian prints.
A great number of Very promising young
officers, have lacely fold out of the army—
This bespeaks an approaching campaign of
danger!
In the course of the present war, from
February I, 1793, till February 1, 1794, a
writer, who we believe is accurate, stales the
captures from the French by the Britilh, ac
cording to Lloyd's books, to be 253 j of
which feventy-five were private ?rs, four fri
gates, and three Hoop?. To these mult be
added fifty-two more taken under pretended
neutral colourc, having French property on
board i and forty-five superior Ihips »f war
taken or destroyed at Toulon, totai 319, of
which one hundred and twcnty-il-ven were
fhiys of war ; and 202 trailing vessels. On
the other fide, the captures by the French
from the Britilh have amounted to -5^2. —
Of these, ten were privateers, a.id two tri
gates; so that the balance of ips of war,
amounts to the vait number of 115 n favor
of Great Britain. That the balance of mer
chant Ihips taken should be against us to the
number of 118, ought not "to lurprize us,
when we consider the great and universal
extent of the commerce of Great Britain,
compared with that of France, according to
which proportion only can a fair estimate be
made.
A letter from Leghorn, dated January 30,
fays, ' On the 15th inft. a desperate action
took place off the height of Porto Vecchio,
between three Sardinian vessels and two Bar
bary zebecks. The Sardinians grappled and
took one of 18 guns and 100 men, and also
grappled and boarded the other of 12 guns
and 96 men ; but some of the crew, rather
than yield, set fire to her, and she blew up,
but happily not before the Sardinian vessels
had disengaged th 'mfelves, and picked up
the people who had been blown up, among
whom were some Sardinians. The crews of
the Sardin an vessels were so enraged, that
they dispatched all the Turks and Algerines
whom they had taken, consisting of 92.
] The loss of the Sardinians was seven men
killed, 75 wounded.'
PLYMOUTH-DOCK, Feb. 27.
Admiral Macbride and his squadron are
ft ill in Torbay.
Lad night arrived in Cawfatvd-bay, his
Majejty's (hip Adamant ofso guns, Capt.
Lentinck, who has been cruiiing these
fix weeks in the Bay, but has not taken
any thing.
| 1
For the Gazette of the United States.
MH- Fknno,
It is a long time lince there has been any
Norfolk news, the fine fancies that have
amused the public for several months seem
to have grown dull of late. The roads
are very good, and surely a man might be
sent on to tell the gaping world, that there
is news, which will follow him in a few
days, which indeed is on the way, but he
oat travell d it.—lt is no less strange than
true that the messenger flies further than
the news, generally the intelligence has
been so pat, so nicely timed, that it could
not have done better if it had been be
fpr.iie and made for a customer : and yet
LONDON, February 24.
it is ten to one, that it is news made for
sale.—Fort Bourbon might be recovered
back again, with a dafli of the pen) a
fleet might be taken with an hundred mil
lions of hard dollars; there lies the Deda
lus, a paragraph would make prize of her,
ten victories on the Rhine, would not colt
ten lines. The town could be cannona- -
dedby a B'ritilh {hip, without any noise.
1 starve in short for news. I hunger and
thirst /or meat and drink, to recruit my
patriotic rage.
Congress already lowers its tone; so
that-without some new {timulus it will re
turn into a cursed cold reasonable tem
per that already makes me lose my own.
Let Norfolk provide the treat. One
Printer jn this City will serve it up.
CHAMELEON.
For the Gazette of tht United States.
MR. Fennos
Six Dollars for about Three boars attend
ance per day, is good wages, even in Phila
delphia ; and the worst of it is, that high
salaries fometlmes protradt business.
Query, whether a certain great body that
(hall be nameless, is not going to follow the
example of a foreign connexion : that is, to
make war,and wait to fee that it is properly
conduced. It is expe&ed however, that in
that cafe the patriots would find themselves.
Things at a distance are often appreciated
to their full value, and imported- faihions are
beioitching.
For the Gazette of the United States.
Addrefledto Miss ofthe New-
Theatre.
Let other Bards attune their lays
And sing whom they efteetn,
A W claims my Muse's praise,
A W is my theme.
Assist ye Nine, whilil I disclose
The beauties of her face,'
Where blends the Lily with the Rose
To heighten every grace.
Her coral lips her azure eye,
Ten thousand charms impart,
And while they draw from each a %h,
They ileal from each a heart,
But let the Nymph whose beauties may
Uflnum'ber d prailes gain,
Remember when it fades away,
Her virtues will remairt.
A meflage from the Senate by Mr. Otis
their Secretary, was this day received by the
Koufe of Kepi efiatatives, which informed
the Hotrfe that the Senate had had under
consideration the bill entitled an Ast to sus
pend the importation of certain goods, wares,
and merchandize, and have resolved that
the said bill do not pass.
Sirtce writing the above <we have been fa
vored with the following :
The Senate have this day negatived the
billfufpending commercial intercourse with
preat Britain, which parted the House of
Representatives lad week.
On the queltion to agree to the firft
paragraph, which contains the Prohibi
tion, the yeas and nays were—
Yeas—Meflrs. Brown, Burr, Butler,
Edwards, Gunn, Hawkins, Langdon,
Martin, Monroe, Robinson and Tay
lor—ii.
Nays—Meflrs. Bradford, Cabot, Ellf
wgrth, Foster, Frelinghuyfen, Henry,
Izard, King, Morris, Potts, Rofs, Rti
therfurd, Strong and Vining— 14.
Meflrs. Jackson, Bradley, Livermore,
and Mitchell, were not present when the
vote was taken.
The other fe&ions of the bill fell of
course ; on the queflion whether the bill
thus disagreed to, should pass to a third
reading—the Senate being equally divided
it pasTed in the negative by the voice of
thfc Vice President.
The Port-Office bill was palled this day.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Ship Peter Holker, Dodge, Turk's Island
Dispatch, Hathaway, Amsterdam
William Penn, Dale, London
Snow Conception, Silva, Lilbon
Harmony, Ellfworth, Bilboa
Brig Hcpe, Erwin, Grenada
Aflive, Welsh, Chailefton
Hiram, Childs, do.
Superbe, Munn, Cape Nic. Mole
Schr. Fatigue, Arnold, Providence
Linnet,' Cronin, Savannah
Swallow, Connell, Charleston
Guftavus, M'Connell, N. Carolina
D iiry-Maid, Hammell, Havannah
William, Fully, North Carolina
Sloop Sally,, Tracy, Nantucket
Nancy, Fortune, N. London I
Sarah Ann, Gladding, R. Iflard '
Ranger, Dunn, . N. York
.The Revenue Schooner, Capt. Mont
gomery, returned from Charleften yester
day morning.
Capt. Connell from Charleston informs
that a French privateer of li Guns, had
sent into that place, a Spanilh privateer
of 14 Guns, and a Bermudian of 8 tl-uns.
Capt. iHathaway failed in company
from Amsterdam with the (hip Cleopatra,
Smith, of Philadelphia he left at' Amster
dam about 15 fail of veflels.
Capt. Dale left London, the firft of
March, and Falmouth the 20th. The
ship George Barclay was to fail the 7th
and the Pigou the 21ft March.
In the William Penn came 31 cabbin
and about 2o ftierage paflengers.
Captain Welsh of the Brig A<ftive, in 7
dfys from Charleston", informs, that on Wed
rtelday last, in lat. 36, Off Cape Hatteras, he
saw a.ship at a distance, which he supposed
to be the Charleston, Capt. Garman.
To Correspondents.
. *** There are several objeilions to » A
Bystander."
The piece.signed " An UnMckJed Ame
rican" requires feme explanation—an inter
view with the writer is requested.
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
TOR SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
•April 2i. mw&ftf
A FARMER.
NEW THEATRE.
Will be performed,
A TRAGEDY, called
HA M L E %
PRINCE of DENMARK;
Camlet, Mr. Fennell
Mr. Green
G "rt> Mr. Whitlock
Horatio, Mr. Maflhall
Laertes, Mr. Moreton
Polonius, Mr. Morris
Rofencrausj Mr. Francis
Guildenftern, Mr. Cleveland
Player King, Mr. De Moulin
i Francisco, Mr. Darley juril ,
Marcellus, Mr. Haywood
I Bernardo, Mrr'WarreO .
Oftric, Mr. Finch
Officer. Mr. Bliflet
, Grave-diggers, Mr. Bates & Mr. Wignell
Queen, Mrs. Shaw
Ophelia, Mrs. Marfliall
Player Queen, Mrs. Rowfon
To which will l;e added,
: A New serious Pantomime, once perform
i ed heTe, called
f La Foret Noire,
t OR THE
NATURAL SON.
With New Music by Mr. Re : nagle, and
, New Scenery by Mr.Milburn.
, The Panto mime under the direQion of Mr*
Francis.
Geronte, father of Lucille Mr. Greeh
Lanzedan, Lucille's lover Mr. Moreton
Adolphe, the natural son, Mailer T.Warrell
Pince, a finical Abbe, Mr. Francis
Lubin, apeafant, Mr. Warrell
Fronte & Pafquin, ferva*ts to Geronte',Mef
frs. Warrell & Darley jun.
Lucille,(Daughter to Geronte) Madame
Gardie, from the Theatre at Paris
being her firft appearance on this
stage.
Marton,Lucille's maid, Miss Rowfon
BANDITTI.
Le Terreuir, captain of the banditti, Mr.
Marfliall
Sans Quartier, the lieutenant Mr. Cleveland
Robbers, Meflrs. Bliflet, De Mou
lin, Lee, Bason, &c.
Books, descriptive of the Pantomime, to
be had at the Theatre.
*** As incon\ eniences to the public have
vifen from the Box uook u. njg r.pen cn the
days of performance onlv, n future . t end
ance will be given at the office 1 n the Th t a re
every day from ten 'tiii one, and on the days
of performance from ten till three o'clock izr
the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, it it
refpe&fully requested, may be addreflcd, to
Mr. Franklin, at the Box-Office.
Ladies and Gentlemen are reqirefied t<r
fend their servants to keep places, at half an
hour past 4 o'clock, and to order them t<y
withdraw, as soon as the company are seated
as-they cannot on any account be permitted
to remain in the boxes, nor any places kept
after the firft act. , ' *
Places in the Boxes to be taken at the Box-
Office of the Theatre,at any hour from nine,
in the morning till three o'clock in the ast r-"'
noon, rjl the day of perform Mice. Tickets.
to be had at the office near the Theatre, ae j
the corner of Sixth-ftreet,and.at Carr & Co's *
Muficalßepofitory, No. «.»,• Market-street
NANKEENS.
THIS EVENING,
April 28.
- •
-•'%ci
M
.-lefday ths 29th instant
t 11 o'clock in the Forenoon, -will be
i.id by public veiuiue, at Air. Bowcn'i
•inhibition Room, No. 9, north Eigitft
Qrect,
A COLLECTION OF
Capital Pißures,
By t'ic 1110 ft approved French, Italian, and
flemifti MaifcetsJ coll ny a gentleman of
aiie in Europe, and superior to any that have
!ver bec« offered for sale in America.
Thtfe Pictures may be viewed at any time
previous to the day ot'lale at the Exhibition
floSm, where catalogues may be had, and at
the Stibicribers Aurtion Room.
LIKEWISE,
A Collection of Books 0
in foreig i languages, such aV llu!]ia:i, Polifti.
and a few map's in tire {aid Languages.
FIOTMAN it CO. AttSliomcs.
April 2. tuthfcst29
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16,' Wall-street, New-York
THtC SuWcViber intending to confinr hinvfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE &r SALE op
STOCKS on COMMISSION, bfgs leave to of
for n-.s fViends and other*, irt the
lineo(a Stock.Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their bufineCs, may depend
upon' having it tranfa&cd with the utmost fide
lity and difpataK.
Orders from Philadelphia, Bolton, or any
other the United State*, will be- ftridUy
attended to._ ' LEONARD BLEFCKER.
m&rhtf
nroinrs.
"A CHOICE COLLECTION,
. Lately intporlrd, and for sale at
No. 26, Spruce:, opposite Dock
Street,
AT LO>V PRICES,
Among drt the folio-wing :
. FOLIO.
Hiilorv of* I ondon with plates
PajAfrtt Aichue&ure, 2 vols. in ©ne best edi
tU* M
Tillotfon's Works, g vols, best edition
Rapin's H.itory of England with Ticdal's
C'ontinuatioi , 3 vols-
Shaw's Travels thro' Barbary and the Levant
PoiHethwait'-v Di&ionary o{' Trade and Com
merce, 2yi )s.
QU A R TO.
i <
E*'
Trav'ei;, 5 vols, fine p'ates
Robe "tinn's Hi l ory ps America, a vols.
.Mael»nrin's Account ot'NewtojisPHilofopb;
M'Knight's Harmony of the Gospels ■
Lwmui on the Re veil ions
Ledw.ck'i Antiquities of Ireland
Locke ot> the Epistles
Glad's account of the Canary Islands
Eell'i Travels through Asia, 2 vols.
Toumefort's v*>vage 10 the Let "it, 2 tfols.
0 C T A V 0.
The annual & e vols, trom its com
mencemetn
Niebuhr's voyage to Arabia, 2 vols.
Hume's Hist >ry < * England, with SmoHetts
continuation* 14 vols.
Crevier's Lives of the Roman Emperor's, io
vofc.
OPennant's Account of London
Reeves's history qf the EngliOi La\v, 4 vols.
Commentaries, 4 vols.
Raynal'S hift.ify of the Ealt aiid Weft Indies,
7 vols.
Be ll's beautiful edition of the British Poets,
169 voh.
LIFRES FRJNCOIS.
L -\ntiqui e explicjuee avec Ftgtiitl par Morit
fs»uy»n 15 torn. fp!.
Lc A 't'quite de I'Egypte par Norden sol. a
ecD fcription
Di6l onnairc Hillorique 9 torn. oft.
Thea r C de Voltaire refie 9 ;om.
Hilt >nc Romaiu par Roll in idiom.
Lc Ti m -le des Muses avec des beaux Tableaux
CEuvrcs de Boileau, Molierfc, Helvetius&c.
With many others equallv good,
ALSO,
Jin Excellent Quadrant,
warranted perfed; a tew acromatic Pocket
perfpr&iv.e Glalfes ; a fine toned German Flute
6 keys and additiou2l joints ; and a few ele
gant Coloured P«int<.
TO BE SOLD,
And entered upon the fiifl; of May,
The noted Efiate, edited
yohnjon Hall:
Lying in the Mohawk country, state of New
Voik, formerly the feat of Sir William John
son, containing about seven hundred acres of
land, which is of the very best quality j toge
ther with the ft-iek, and farming utensils. The
buildings are large and convenient, and fit for
a gentleman's feat. The payments will be made
easy, on good security. For further particulars
enquire of George Meicalf, Esq. on the premif
rs, of Silas Talbot, Kfq. at Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Broshers, in New York, or
of the luhfctiber in Providtoce.
yabez Bowen.
TO BE sold;
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible lituntion,—alfo a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of* land and the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
(no. 60 y
Dyhict vj renijyL LLinta, to ivit :
Be it remembered that
on the tweiJtn day of April in the eighteenth
year ot the independence of the United States
of America, lie■ jamm D:.v;es of the said dif
tri& hath debited in tins office the title oi a
map, the right Whereof he claims as prop) *
-tor, in the words following, to wit;
u A Giound Pljin of the City and Sub
u urbs of Philadelphia, taken from a&ual
u Purvey; containing; an exa& description
il ot all tlie squares, streets and alleys in
u the City and Liberties ; of the fit-nation
44 of all Ihe prin ipal pu lie buildings • oi'
u the rivulets, and as mgch of the Canal
•< as lies within the compass of the draft,
" by H. P. Folic : pubjiihed by the Propri
-11 etar, Benjamin Daviesi"
In Conformity to the a& of the Congress of
the United Suites, entitled an ast for the en
couragement of learning, by i'ecuring the co
pies of I&p'S} charts and books to the authors
2nd proprietors of fueh copies, during the
times therein mentioned.
SAMU-EL CALDWELL,
CI rkof the D ftri&of P*eunf)lvania.
April 9.
OF THE
Library Company of Philadelphia,
WILL oe held at the Library, in Filth
street, on Monday the fifth ot May next, at
three o'clock in the afternoon, when the trea
surer wilt attend to receive the annual pay
men t&>
As there are fevera! {hares on which fines
are due, the owners of or their rep e
fentatives, ire hereby notified, that they will
be- forfeited, agreeably to the IjWs of the
Company, uniefs the said arrears are paid off
on the fifth day of May, or within ten days
after.
By Order of the Directors.
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN,
Secretary
April 7. m&w tjth May.
Henry Rape State of Maryland.
f. J High Couit of Chancci y,
BenjaminGaithei > March sth. 1794.
and \ "
Basil Oaither
The Complainant dates
in his bill that the detciidants Benjamin Gui
ther and Basil Gaither were leizcci in fee as
tenants in common of a trait of land in Fre
derick County, called Hammond's Strife
that being so l'eifed, Baiil executed a power
of attorney to Benjamin authorizing him to
fell his, the said Baiil's interelt in the fa d
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin folcj
the laid land to a Gatther for
the corifideration of fix hundred pounds which
hath been since paid, that the laid Wiljiam
hath afligued to the Complainant HenryJlape
the bond executed by the said Benjamin for
the conveyance of tne said land : The Com
plainant now further states (and so appfears
to the Chancellor) that the defendants are
u6n-reiidents of theltate of Maryland, and
herefore out of the reach of the process of
this court.
R T 0.
adjudged a. od, ~a
lie Complainant procure a copy of this or
ler to be inferred in the newspaper of Angel
And Sul {van, and in the United States Gazitit
at least three weeks successively, before the
twentieth day of May next ; to the intent
that the Defendants and all others, who may
conceive themselves interested in the pitmil
es, may have notice to appear in this court,
on or before the third Tuesday in September
next, to ftiew cause wherefol e a decree fliould
not pass for vesting in the Complainant acom
plete legal titJe to the land aforefaid.
Test,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. Con.
tuth&s3w
THE Subfcribrr having cntertd into Co
partnership with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the bufinofs of Sugar Refining, will dispose
of the
Remaining Stock on band
Consisting of
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By Whole/ale at Prime Coji for Cajh.
John Dorfey,
No. i 2, North 3d (Ireet.
Trealury Department,
Revenue Office, Aptil 19, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby that proposals
will be leceived at the oiiice of' theCominif
fioher of the Revenue until tlie sixth of May
next inciufively, for the fnpplji of all Ra
tions, whicbmay be required daring the cur
rent year, at the city of Philadelphia, for
the recruiting fer»ice.
The rations to be furniihed are to consist
of the following Articles, vi
One of bread or flour /
One pound of beef, or 3 4 of a pound pork
Half a gill of rum, brandy or whisky
One quart ot fait, ~S
Two quarts vinegar f n .
Two pounds soap S Per >00 rat.ons
One pound candles J
April 2a. mw&slw
The annua] election
FOR-
Directors and a Treasurer
March 18.
Concluding Sales.
April is.
Just Imported,
In thefhij> Abigail, Captain.Hartan, from St
Pctcrjburgb in Rujjia, and new Ihnding a
Rujjtil's wharf,
HEMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
RAVELS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And (or fak 41 ihe (lores of the fubfciiber ii
Vi nui ftreei, No. 22.
John Donnaldfon.
April 4. (iiw wic t
Phllad. April 22, 1794.
* * Notice, agreeably to charter, is here
y given to the members of the Corporation
for the Relief of Poor and D jlrejjid Pre/by
terian Mini/lets, and of the Poor and Dis
tressed Widows and Children of Presbyterian
Miniflers, that a meeting of said corporation
is to take place, on the 22ti day of May next,
in the second Presbyterian church in the city
of Philadelphia, at 4 o'clock P. M. for the
dispatch of all fiich bnfinefs as may then be
brought before the board.
GREEN,
Treasury Department,
Revenue Office, JSpril l(itb, 1794.
Communications by post or
otherwise. will be received by v.ay of infor
mation at the Office of the Commiilioner of
theßevenue from per fans willing to supply iron
Cannon, Cannon Ball, and Shells, for the for
tifications and Ships of W-r. The fi'nefs of
the metal for cannon, and the capacity of the
founders }n fmeUing, in preparing and mi*.
the metal, and in calling and boring the
cannon (which are to be cast folldly) will re
quire to be par:icularly stated.
S milar communications will also be receiv
ed fioin any perf'ons willing to lupply live
oak and red cedar limber for live Conftrti&ion
of thefhips of war. Different plans of pro
curing a-nd fUppJying the fame may be propos
ed. The convenience of the fiiuauon i n re
gaid to navigation, ai*d the state of the timber
whether artady fallen or hereafter v to be cut,
will require to be noticed.
All the neceflary particulars in regard to
theffevcral articles which aie wanted, will be
fpecified ir. contrails intended to be 1 grounded
in part on the information, which is hereby
fought.
April 17.
Ground Plan
City and Suburbs
OF
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM AQI-VAL SURVEY*
IT is with pleaftjie ihat.tHe pubfi/her has to
info'm his t'ul>lcriber6 and tile p-übiic in gene
ral, that the plate .s now under the hands of
the engiaver, and in g. eater forWardnefs than
was at frft contemplated. At the fame time
he begs leave to r mind them, th t i'uW i ip
tujn papers are ftili open at inoft of the noted
book-ftoies in the city ; , n d that he hopes
trom the whole of them to be enabled to foim
inch a refpecftable caialogue of names, as will
do a credit to the work, a s we ]| as af f old a
re iTonable encouragement to the undertake.r
Thole who are-delirous of further informa.
tion are requested to call on
Benjamin Davles,
No. 68, Market ilieet.
A P ril '4- m&rthtf
Just Published,
In onehandfome volume, umo. Price 5s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
Prdtihl'ifi j Head) No. 4 > Second
Stre?t,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it impo!.-*.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
"I eylerian Society at Haarlem.
CoireSed and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D - D -
ProfefTor of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
ol Nature, and of Ecclefhftical HiiWy •
and Mmifter of the Engtifc Chuich at V
trechr.
Aliquid semper ad communem utilitatem as
feremW
The Firjl American Edition.
grand principle of Equality, if right
. understood, is the only basis on which
un.verfal juilice, (acred o.der, and perfetf
reedom, ca.ihe firmly built,and permanent
!y fccured. The v.ew of it exhibited in th,
elray, at the fame time that it reprefies the
insolence ot office, the tyranny of p, ide, and
the outrages o( oppression ; confirm,, ,n the
moll forcible manner, the necefiity of fnbor
tiination, and the just demands of lawful au
thomy So far indeed, from loosening th.
oancis of society, that it maintains in violate,
every natmal and every civil djftinftim
draws more clolely every (ocial tie, unites i,
tein a r nd°f n '- OUS a " d ■' Ui " V P ro P ort| o |l ed fyf
' fjrrrg, men together on the eve'
ZT f! rights of h uman , la
ure, „f reciprocal oblation, and of acorn
mon relation to the community.
Marc " ,8 - tu&ftf
lnthi:s6w
/ Secretary of the Corporation.
tuth&s6t
tuth&S2W.
OF THE
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Fife Dollar Hills ~f
the Bank of the United States x and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Batik of North Auienca,
Jcverul of which have appeared in drcuiat'iMi
within a few days pajl; they are a good
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, out may
be diflinguifhtd by the following
marks.
Fine Dollar Bill of the Bat,Je of the
United States.
.1 1 .!
ALL tlut have appeared liav? the fetter p
for their Alphabetical Mark.
Ihe Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is fma!!er
than the M. and other lefters of that wori
fa that a line extended from the top of the t >
to touch the top of the M. would extendcon!
fideiably above the range of the whole word!
In the word Un ted the letters are nan<> w "
erard closer together than the reft of the bill"
The i and/in the word prom,fe are
parallel, the/inclining much mo're forwar *
than the i.
Tire engraving is badly executed,! he
of all the Letters are stronger and the devi e
in them arg in particularly ismuch coarkr and
appeal s darker ihan in the true bills. Soin
el the counrerfi its bear daie in i 7 j t \v\ K ' r ~
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
tier, and no hve dollar bills were iiluerf T*
ihatyiar. * '
Twenty Dollar Bills of tlx Bwii of AV/i.
America.
ALT. that have appeared have the letter
B for their alphabetical mark.
They are primed on a paper nearly Hmi'ar
to that of the counterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above defer.bed ; the engraving is better CRe .
ucted, and they approach nearer to the au
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the (void Tuck
tyy iii the body of ihr bill, are in nunibei th r
teen in the genuine bills, and but iwilve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company i 5 much lik6 the fame
word in the Five Dollar B Us is defer ibed a
bove, the o being less than them, and othes
following".
There is no stroke to th* t inlhe word Air.'i
whereas in the genuine bills the Hoke is \tell
defined.
The Infers enl in the word Tumty, to the
left hand at the 1 lot torn, do no,- come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an "irregular
appearance tu the word, the Tw and :lie> go
ing below them.
The lignature J Nixon, the appe»r
a ice of fxin s written wiih lamb-tlack >itd
01, and differs from other inks ijfcd ia
pi 'nting the bills and the culkiei's fig latwc.
It is supposed these frygeiies were cuumiiite*!
in lotm of thi Southern Stales, as all the com.
re, ierts thai have appeared, h->ve come from
ih nee, and two person's have been aj-prrhene- .
ed m Virginia, on fufptcion of being 1 ! c author 4m
of them. /
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
w !1 be paid toany ferfoii or p .-rf us wfi , ilull
difco-er and prosecute !o convi£i»on the iicveral
offenders of the follownrg defcripuons o an/
of them, viz.
The per fori or prrfons, who manuf ftured
the] p:r oq which the Biili are primed.
The person or pc.foos, who engraved ihc
plates.
Tlk nicr or primers, raf the bills.
v ( ry t'e-rf.tn why has as a pri c ; t>al in
" ny ® th " J"?'. 'O. 'he couuterleuing a; d utic
■ ng (he fa J bills.
Philadelphia, Mafdi 28. 17
~ , A r'< l 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
ni&thtf
IZ! , I d -" n n omination isof TWENTY DOL
teffl. alphabejical mark is the let
in Jh he^, m y, bt ' diain ? ui^d f-om ,h e krntt
me by the following MARKS •
of « of a mnre
tend r texture and gloffey f ur | a « than (he
r 'V'" W: ' te '' mark irttbera.
truTb U :; C " tfle WOrd CalW ". «"
true b,ll, , s ftu.ngly marked, W |, frt „ j„ the
ZITT-1' *i whu,e <*'
t" - V En state. T «
fr«SSlr*JSafs!i
devue ' is much datker -in
the "1 h' rt "i '" e genuine bijU owing to
toLttl , b r ngcoarre '' much
,5 'kJ' cnn 'eqiieiitlv much nxne nu
meroun. rh.s d&rence ft. ikes ihc eye at si.st
„?! f a '" e rc «"ird of ONE THOUSAMO
JULAKS, mi)] |,e paid so- apprehending, k
A r k Ut j" S i° c «P'iftion the I'everaJ ab ve
i„ refpeft to this, as to
tbe lalt defcribod bills. -
THOMAS WILLING, P.efide.t
of the 8 nk ttWjfrd Sutei.
JOHN NIXON, Pre fid cut ol lYe
Bank, ol North Ameiica.
By otorr of the Committees of the Ref
peiftive Boards.
. P*?" fhis Gavzette be enlarged-, as it
receives encouragement—The Suhfcriptim
encreqfes daily—A/fi>crlifmg Favors ate
* eon ji' ltaie ** iffiatisl I tent
the Debit Jide of the j4count.
PHILADELPHIA:
Printed by JOHN I'ENNO, No 3
tu&ftf
South Fourtk-Street.
*-