of ffee o>t&t£%>
EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 51 of Vol. V.]
To be Let on Freight or Charter,
or for Sale,
&.HERCULES,
Samuel Chuuncy, Mader,
i.\, vt ta 10 he ready «>» * ff"w days t<> receive
a Cargo 011 board, at Hampton R >ad, in Virginia ;
is an Americah bottom, burthen 500 tons, piei ccd
for «o guns, quite new and well fitted.
Apply so
WHARTON & LEWIS.
Philadelphia, Febiuarv 4, 1794
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR KALI BY
M. Carey, No. 118, High-fired,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the world.
THIS lillle book is written in a stile altogeth* r
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all clafteS of people, njerchan s, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation ha* .this
work acquired, thai it has pafTcd thio three iiri
prcflions in the eaftein states, and many houle
holders deem it so ufelul as to purchase a cooy
lor ever v adult in then families ——Pk t c e •_>*.
.February 4. dtl
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs hi« friends and
the public, TM from 'he encouragement
he has receiv<d, Iroin fcveral icfpe&ablc Gemlq
men, he is induced once more, to cmbar.k in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his fcvices 10
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidmce
in him ; and he thole who employ him,
that tjieir confidence shall not be misplaced;—
but it (hall be his (.ouitant endeavor, to pay the
ftrifirft attention to then best interest, in all ne
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber,
in State-Strretj over Mr. David Tvxvnjend, Watch
Make's Shop. Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of all kinds, a'e bought and f«>!d ; and
"wheie Cotnmiflion Bufiuefs of all kinds, will be
tranf-'fled on reafon*ble terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be conllanily exposed tor lale, on
commiflioii.
* # * Cash paid For Salem, Providence, and
Poriiinouih BILT S.
N. B. Ij any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York has any tiujinefs lo tranlaci at 80/lon,
in Paper Neg oc'at ions, he will he nappy to he em
ptoxeJ on cojnmiJ/ion.
Boston, J«m. 24, 1794-
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —alio a Country Seat
within 6 miles «»f the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acrps of larxl and meadow, the
HouCe is not exceeded by many »»» the v\cin)ty
of the ritr, *n fire or convenience,
For terms apply to t!ic printer.
January 23
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortment of
SILVER y PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY y fnt CUTLERY,
Which they will difpole of on the most rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and lilver
way, done a* tiiual.
December 24.
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Cojfce-Houfe of this
City
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Skippen-Street % be
tween Third and Fourth-Streets, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Tiromom, which
has lately bern greaily improved, and is now
«ery com mod out; wherr he has turnilhed hi in
fer) I with the bell ot LIQUORS, and will fur
nilh a TABLK lor Parties, with the best provi
(ions the Markets aQord, at any hour, on the
ihorteft notice. From his long experience in
thislio< of business, he flatters himfelf he (hail
be able to give fatisfa&ion to all who may plcafe
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January <9,1794.
THE Trustees of an Academy,
or any individual wilhing to engage a
pr on to r!\jtend the Education of"youth,
in the c<»ui le of* ftudles usually bdopted iu
Academies, or any branch of bufinels requir
ing similar qualifications, naay open a com
monication with a pcrfon willing to be em
ployed a few year-; (for a generous compenfa
tinn) by wvting (fetters to be post paid) to
Mr. John' Fenvo, Philadelphia.
(Ct Pri nrrrs to the Southward would pojfibly
oblige some of theirfriends > by injerixng the foregoing
a few times in their papers.
February 8. d\v»
Excellent CLARET,
In hogl!«eads and in.caft&of 50 bottles each.
also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter casks,
No. ij i, Suuth Front ILieei
Jan. s, 1.794.
City Commissioners Office,
January 30, 1794.
IN pursuance of a Resolve of the Common
Council, dated the 20th day of January,
1 794* f° r dividing tlie City into five Diltnds,
by lines drawn Enfl and Weft, whcre®f each of
the City Coinmiflioners is to take the fuperin
teadance of one of the said Diiln&s, and to be
•ccunia.blc for the cleansing, good prder and
1 ecu;:i:: i n', ,j u. |jmc,
7he Comrht>moners have accordingly made
*hc so, lowing airangement lor the prcfent :
Dijirict the xji. Nathan Boys, to have the
chaigc of that part of the streets, lanes and alleys
from C.dar-if 1 cet, to the noith fide of Sprucc
ftieet.
Dijhifl the 2d. Hugh Roberts, from the nrtrth
fide of Spruce-street to the north fide of Walnut
Ure» t.
Di/trifl the 3J. jofeph Claypoole, from the
north fide ol Walnut 10 the' «>uth lide of High
ftuer. 6
Dijltul the \{k. William Moulder, from the
north fide ol to the north fide ps Mulberry
Up. et.
Dijlria the sth. Nicholas Hicks, from the
north lade ol \iulbtny,to the north lide of Vine
ftrcet.
JZxtraflfrom the Minutcs t
N B. The carriage way in Markeuftreet, is
nndn the charge ol the Commiflioneis generally,
for the present, the foot- ways on the north and
Touth fides thereof, are connected with the ad
joining Diftri&s rrCprftively.
NO RRIS-COURT,
Back of tlic New Library, between Chefnut
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in generaj, that he continues
carrying on the Vmfinefs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
JLikenife, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or wjndow-fhutters,donft in the mod
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received. and duly attended to.
December go, dtf
in&th-—tf
War Department.
January 3oth 1704.
TNFORMATION is heieby given todll the
1 military invalids of the United the
lums to which they are entitled for fix months
of tbc't annual penGon, from the fourth day of
September 1 793, and which will bccome due
ori the ,sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Commiflioners of the Loans
within the states refpe&ively, under the usual re
gulations.
mw&ftf
Applications of executors and adminiftratora
must be accpmpanifd with legal evidence of
their icfpc-ftive offices, of the time the
invalids died, whose pension they may claiui.
By command of the President
of the United State.*,
Secretary oj War,
The printer# in the refpedive ftatet are
requeued topublilh the above in their newfpa
pes (or the space of two months.
Januaiy 30.
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby giyen, that there will
be paid at the Bank, after the fifteenth
instant, to the Stockholder!or their repiefen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty cents for each Ihare, being the dividend
declared for the la ft fix months.
3" JOHN KEAN, Cafliicr.
AND
Monday, February 10, 1794.
FOR SALE BY
JOHN i VAUGHAN,
JOHN MEASE, CM.
and Walnut-Streets.
H. KNOX,
d«m
By Order,
From the American Minerva.
SUABILITY OF STATES.
I HAVE {Lid that foreign states arc
moral pcrfons, capable of right and -wrong.
They are so, not only in relation to one
another, but in relation to the iudividuals
of which each (late is composed. There
are legal and moral duties which sovereign
states owe to every member of the com
munity ; and if a state erer refufes to dis
charge its duties, the individual should
have a power, as well as an equitable right,
to enforce an observance of them. To
fay the contrary is to maintain a contra
diction. To fay that a state owes moral,
legal or political duties to its citizens,
which it is not under obligations to fulfill,
is an absurdity; and if there is an obliga
tion on a state to perform certain duties
to its citizens, there ought to be some tri
bunal to which every man mar refoy, and
demandjtJHce. It is not fufficient t6 fa
tisfy the mind, to fay that individuals have
the privilege of petitioning for their rights
Petitioning (hould be limited to unli
quidated claims, indefinite rights or mat
ters of opinion or favor. Matters of con
traß, fpecific rights, stand on a different
foundation. They always entitle to de
mand; and cotfne&ed with the right of
demanding is the right of process to pursue
and carry into effefit.—States clearly have
a power to contract; and they pra&ife the
right of compelling the party who con
tracts with them, to fulfil his engagements.
Why should states, composed of a multi
tude of individuals, enjoy this lingular ex
emption from laws that bind the opposite
party. Is it riot the nature of a contract
that it be founded on free a/sent and on
consideration or equivalents ? Is it a con
tract reciprocally beneficial which one party
oflly is compellable to fulfil ? Is there not
a prejudice, a deception in the opinions
of men on this subjeCt ? Is not the opinion
that sovereign states are not fuaHe, a mo
narchical idea, derived to us from the
haughty sovereignties of Europe.
Is it not merely the effect of that impe
rious pride which princes feel in indepen
dant stations ? Is not this the language of
it ? " It is our royal will and pleasure that
every man in our dominions (hall submit to
our tribunals, and be compelled to render
us justice—But we princes will not be com
pelled. We will not fnbmit to have claims
demanded of us—Our fubjefts, however
just their claims, (hall only approach our
majesty with prayers and humble supplicati
ons ; and it (hall reft with our gracious
wills, whether to hear them or not. Com
pul/ion even in a course of law, is degrad
ing to princes." Such is the language of
the opinion which is now so popular in A
merica.
It is indeed a singular fadt that the cla
mor against fuabtlity of Jlatcs arises from
violent democrats: tho' the opinion that
states ought not to be compellable to an
fsver to the suits of individuals, is, in the
highest degree, artflocralkal or monarchi
cal. It is to give to the legislatures of
such states the mofl unbounded despotic
powers againil individuals ; powers that
extend to enable them to do rightor refufe
it at pleasure and with impunity ; powers
that are as dangerous to liberty, as the
will of theTurkilh Sultan; powers, that
even in this country, have been exercised
to the extreme opprejjion of good citizens.
BOSTON.
Atih particular requrfl of the Histori
cal Society, the following Letter and
V'jte are inserted.
Bojton, Dec. 31, 1793.
Sir,
IN cre&ing the center building of the
Crescent, it was our intention to accommo
date the Hiltorical Society with a conve
nient room. We now request you to
communicate to the Society, at their next
meeting, our offer of the upper apartment,
[Whole No. 509.]
in its present date; with the addition 01
stairs and windows
If our offer is accepted we wish you to
furnifh us \v;th a proper form of convey
aince, which shall be executed immediately-
W. SCOLLAY,
CHARLES BULFINCH,
CHARLES VAUGHAN,
Hon. James Sull(van, Esq.
Pfcjtdent of the Htjlor 'ical Society,
AT a special meetirfg of the Historical
Society, held at the Prcfident's house, on
Friday the ioth of January, 1794.
A Letter from Messrs. Scoilay, Bui*
finch and Vaughan, offering an apartment
in the Crescent, for the use of the Histo
rical Society, was read.
Whereupon voted, That the offer be
accepted ; and that the thanks of the So
ciety be presented by the President, to
MefTrs. Scoilay, Bulfinch and Vaughan,
for their generou* donatkm.
ExtraH from the Records,
JAMES FREEMAN, Rec. Sec'ry.
Bojlon, January 11, 1794.
Gentlemen,
YOUR obliging letter of the 31ft of
Dec. last, offering to the Maflachufett»
Historical Society, a room in the center
building of the Crescent, I have commu
nicated to the Society. That affociatiorf
had its origin in a sincere wish to promote
the honor and happiness of United Ame
rica, and the labor of its member# hat
been, and now is, employed with unremit
ting zeal and industry, in colle&ing and
preserving those materials, which will give
a foundation to a political, as well as a
natural history of the country. Our fel*
low-citizens recognizing the utility of oar
plan, have been very liberal and afliduous,
in yielding us afliftance and support; by
these means we have a staffed a great num
ber of books, printed productions, ancient
manuscripts, and natural curiosities.
The government of this commonwealth
has dire&ed the secretary to deliver us co
pies of public proceedings ; and we hope
that the general, and other governments
will afford us aid and countenance in the"
lame manner.
Thn« situated, and with these profpefts
nothing could be more congenial to our
w i(hes, or acceptable to our interest, than
the generous offer you have made. We
derive no small degree of pleasure from the
consideration, that the donation is made
by gentlemen, whofc feelings for the pub
lic interest, and talle for arc hit eft ure, have
ornamented the capital with buildings so
exceedingly elegant as the Crescent.
1 am directed by the Society, of which
1 have the honor of being President, to
present to you their most cordial thanks
for this mark of refpeft to theiVinftituti
tion, and to assure you, that a grateful
sense of your generosity and goodness,
(hall be preserved until the Society ihall
cease to exist.
I have tlve honor to be,
Gent'emea
with sentiments of refpeft,
your most obedient
and humble servant,
JAMES SULLIVAN.
William Sco Clay, f
Charles Bulfinch, ( Efq'rs.
Charles Vaughan. J
The abovementioned apartment ia forty
feet in length, and twenty seven feet in
breadth. A committee it appointed to
superintend the finifhing of the work at
the expense of the Society ; and it will be
completed as soon as possible.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
(Copy.)CONGRESS
Hcufe of Rrprtfenkitivtt*
January 24.
In committee of the whole on Mr. MaJjfon**
njulut'ion.
.
that many gentlemen,
It is oble
when they 11ie upon laLjcCt, apolo
gise, tor want of a clear comprcheniion
o»' it; and the indefinite fitnition of the
prcjiofition now before the ccc'iniltee,
;..id indefinite reasoning upon it, have I ac
knowledge afforded one It rang ground of
argument, in mv mind, agair.ft the lcfo
lution. I think the maxim deferable,
tiiat no rcfolution, until its principles arc
clearly defined and its consequences well
linderltood, (hould be adopted by a legif
-1 uiv# body, especially on a commercial
fubjeft, since it is a given point, that
commerce has generally bid deriance to
! giflative intelligence, and in event,' tri
i mphed over Jegiflative reftriftions.
The difcuftiou of this fubjecf, has af
firmed an appearance, which must be fur
j ifin>( to a ft'rtngcr, and painful in the
extreme to outfelve*.
The Supreme Legislature of the Uni
ted States is' ferioully dclibt-i atinjj, not
upon the welfaVe of our citizens, but up
«,n the relative circumstances of two Eu
ropean nations, and this deliberation, has
not for its object, the relative benefits of
their markets', to us, but which form of
»<ivei iimei.t is bett, and moll like cur oVn,
which people feel the greateit affection for
US) a'i.(! what measures we can adopt,
which will bell hun.ble one, and exalt the
other
The primary motive of thfcfe resolu
tions, as acknowledged by the defenders
of them, was not the increase of our a-
j; "icultiir#, manufactures, or navigation,
but to humble Great Britain, and to build
i, * France: And although it is fa id our
ma.iufatturcs and liavii atioi', may receive
Uiivautagb, it is only mentioned, a* a iub
ftiti'.te in cafe of failure as to tie great
ob V&, of humbling Great -Britain.
The diftufiitai in iavbr of these regu
laticns, has hreathed nothing but hottili
tT ard revenge again!! the English j and
\< a t the*' thi' o;> Ok' r
d re«. lor
wavs
I
certainly be
V I'.Cll 'JIC GO '..MC'.Tl.'K!'
fct about it with tempe'rnnc
but in tliij ck-batewe
1 o'.ci ol ilr incxecu
tc • v.v.: ;:i. :,i,,uiis of a
haughty people ; that through the agen
cy <-i Great Ivritain, the savages arc up-
tun ot a tonne
en us on one fide, and the Algevinet on
the other ; the fr.iud is roirfed by such a
group of evils, ahd then called upen to
emiider a ftatcment of duties on goods
in;por:ed from foieign nations. If the
fubi: ct is commercial, why n'ottreat it up
ou the basis e;f a cotnthircial fubjeft, and
with coolnels attend to it ? If it is a ques
tion ot political hollility or war, a firm
er tone might be adopted. When a na-.
tion is opprcfTed on ail fides, by injuries
which cali loudly to be avenged, there is
an impel ioufneft i.i their cireuriiflai.ces,
which often precludes delibeilition, and
fomctimcs, at lead denies its propriety j
piemplitude of action, in the fiiil foim
that pvefents itfclf, is frequently a virtue.
But when all this national preiiuit, is to
obt lin redress, from laying a duty on a
few articles of commerce, one would hard
lv think the violent introduction, mucil
less an impkfTioned mode of debate, could
ft rik.e any man with propriety. I think
this mode of treating the fubjett tends to
confute, and contains in it no aptitude to
devclope either principle? or consequences.
After making these observations, permit
ms, fir, to consider the question before
the committee merely as a commercial
one. and for a moment lay aside Indians,
Algerines, and all such initating objects.
] engage it (hail be for a moment, they
certainly shall have a full confideratien, in
a fu' i tie part of my argument. To per
form this tafic, with propriety, the state
of our commerce, naturally prcfents lt
felf as the firft object of enquiry. In
this 1 arr anticipated by the gentleman
from MaiTachufetts, (Mr. Dexter,) and
by a number of inconteftible fails, con
tained in the official document before the
in", ami i>ur navigation rapidly incrca
fing.
com!" it t -r.
I, fir, wat bred a farmer, I liv; a
mcng farmers, , much further removed
from a view of commerce, than any of
my colleagues, and when these resolu
tions wire brought forward, 1 expe&ed
the painful detail, that our commerce was
languilhing and our tonnage decreasing,
and that oili mercantile intereit was ear
neltly calling for the aid and prote&ion of
government. But in this expectation I
a.u agreeably disappointed ; no merchant
is complaining, nor any fact existing, to
juftiff ' :ch complaints. It is worthy of
remark, and mult induce serious enquiry,
if our trade is deranged and (hackled to
the degree pretended, why the merchants
in this home (hould t:e totally ignorant of
it i And why, to a man, they (hould be
opposed to these regulations which put
on the specious appearance, of affording
diteft relief to them ? This circumstance
alone, would go far in my mind, towards
negativing the proportions, much farther
than the clofrt (peculations of a phifo
pher in their favor, which nine times in
ten, cannot be reduced to pra&ice.
And here, Sir, I feel a confidence in
repeating, that upon a fubjeft of forcing
fade from one nation to another, which
i;. of necefiity so complicated in principle,
so various and invifiblc in consequences ;
the committee will never ad, but with
the ufmoft caution, and will constantly
keep in view, that trade will seek its own
markets, d its own level and regulate
itfelf much better than we can do ; and
although we may embarrass it, and injure
our own citizens and even other nations
for a while, it will eventually rife above
all the regulations we can make.
The gentleman who introduced these
resolves, aware of our tlourifhing (late of
commerce, has adknowleged thatby their
adoption, certain evils will be incurred.—
What are these evils ? If we allow full o
peration to his positions, without an im
mediate overture in Great Britain, there
will he a ifagnation of trade, a damp to
agi :culture, its labourers thrown out of
employment ; the present surplus ps pro
duce, rauft perish on the hands of tK'
farmer, &c. &c. But these evils, he
fays, ought to be che arfullv borne, to ob
tain, in event, a much £pLter good:—
Thispofition is a found one, to bear pre
sent small evils, to e(Teft future great be
nefits : But to make the reasoning com
plete, (hould not the gentleman (hew, that
the promised gaoj, is not only great e
nough to juftify a trial of the present e
vil, but that it is certain ?
ice of
I.tgiflatures, al
ptinsf to force
els and habits,
iiarly cautious
Are the benefits promised by these re
gulations, in any mcafure certain, or even
probable ? The great benefits promised,
are a treaty with Great Britain, a repeal
of her navigation aift, as it refpedis the
United States,and in fatt a univerfalfree
dom of trade, and if t'nefe fail, an increase
of our manufactures, and a conrfe of trade
with France, free, as they please to give
:nds, to
ci coolntfa;
I know Indians, &c. are talked of, but
I mean, these arc the promised benefits,
of a commercial kind. Are those events
so probable that we (hall be jullified, in
trying an experiment at the certain ex
pence of our prefeat tranquility anil hap
p.'nefs ? Itisfaid, our citizens are virtu
ous, this I have the pleasure to believe,
but to convince the whole mass of the
people, that a system of fclf-denial, of
any great extent in its operation, is to be
borne by them, for a future benefit, you
must hold up that benefit, in a more strik
ing and certain point of view, than can
be pretended in this cafe. They will be
(low in underltanding, that trade is to be
made free, by imposing more and greater
(hackles upon it. But if "our commercc
is flourilhing, fay the gentlemen, why
should it not be more so ? If Great Bri
tain imposes pointed restraints upon our
trade, and is exprefiing her jealousy and
hatred to us an every practicable occasion,
why not free ourselves ? What has Great
Britain done, Sir ? Has (he made a single
law, reft ricling the commerce of Inde
pendent America ! All her reftiiftions
that now a Rett us, were in exiflence while
we were her colonies, and are part of her
colonial cftabb'lhment.
Her navigation ast, is as old as 1660,
and upon ft rift examination, the United
States are more favored in her Enropean,
East and Well India ports, than any o
ther nation. It is said our trade was at
firft forced there, (jut this re Its merely on
alfertion, it is not in proof bef6re the com-
mittee.
The markets of Great Britain being
the belt, our article! of commerce and
hers being reciprocally ufeful, and, a si
milarity of languag: ajd religion, with
many other natural causes, have carried
our trade to her ports, and will keep it
there, until better markets offer, or it is
forced away. It is said the credit given
by Britilh merchants is an evil, and that
the people of Virginia owe an immense
sum in Great Britain.
When a complaint is madd in direst
terms of reftri&ions'on ourtrade,one would
not readily imagine that another complaint
would be coupled with it, that the trade
was so free as to become an injury : Be
sides credit given to an industrious provi
dent man never can be an injury ; will it
place us in a f.tuation of fear ? If we may
argue from a great state, Virginia, to the
Union, this is not true, for although that
state owes immense debts, her representa
tives come forward with great spirit, to
bring Great Britain to her feet. This
circumstance of giving credit, is entirely
a municipal regulation wholly out of reach
of Congress.
The people at the Eastward, do not
owe the English mei chants, and are very
generally opposed to these regulations.—
These facts mult convince us, that the
credits given us by the trade of Great Bri
tain, do not operate a fear and a depen
dence, which can be alarming to govern
ment.
If the municipal regulations of Virginia,
or any other state, will place the whole of
each man's property, within the reach of
his creditor, and allow the creditor legal
cocrcion for payment of debts, when vo
luntary payment is denied, there will be no
danger from foreign or domestic credit.
The (lothful and idle, as well as the fpend
thrift and wicked, will readily attribute
to faults of omiflion and commission in go
vernment, those evils, necessarily connected
with their own imprudence.
It is said by a gentleman from Pcnnfyl
vania, (Mr. Findley) that the merchants in
this city, who poifefs capitals of their
own, wi(h these reftriftione on Britifli
trade, and that the poorer fort, who are
in want of credit, and must do business by
obtaining it, are opposed to them.
If this be a fact, which is yet 'to be as
certained, it affords another argument
a'rain ft the resolutions. If capitalists,
Nabobs in trade, would wish to (hut out
of competition, men who have not capi
tals, whose induflry, and knowledge of
bufinef6, if they can at firft obtain credit,
would promise them a living, and ufeful
nefs to community, whence i 6 this wi(h de
rived ? From nothing but a desire to ef
fc£t a monopoly of trade to thtmfelres,
the confequcnce of which would be a pro
fit of 25 or 50 per cent, and those men
who have not capitals, must serve them as
clerks or quit the country.
Liberty aud equality is not the fore
moll feature in this desire of our rich mer
chants, if the desire exists; and such a doc
trine favors more of Aristocracy and less of
Republicantfm than I expected to hear from
that honorable member.
(To be Continued.)
Congress of the United States.
IN SENATE,
Friday, January 31.
The Senate resumed the second reading
of the bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" An ast for completing and better sup
porting the military eftabliihment of the
United States"—ancf after debate
Resolved, That this bill do not pass.
Ordered, That the Secretary notify
the House of Reprefentaties that the Se
nate do not concur in this bill.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock on
Monday morning.
Monday, February 3
The Senate took into consideration the
meflage of the President of the United
States of the 30th of December last, ref
petting certain impediments in the coinage
of the precious metals, together with the
report of the Secretary for the department
of State thereon.
On motion,
Ordered, That Mr. Cabot, Mr. Izard
and Mr. EUfworth, be a committee to
take into conlideration and report, on that
part of the meffageofthe President of the
United States of the 30th of December
last, which refpe&s certain impediments
to the coinage of the precious metals, to
gether with the report'of the Secretary
for the department of Hate thereon.
The Senate proceeded to the considera
tion of the lad paragraph of the said mes
sage and the papers to which it refers, and
On taotiuji,
Ordered, Tint they be committed tu
the committee last mentioned, to consider
and report thereon to the Senate.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Tuesday, February 4.
A raeflfage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk—
" Mr. President—The House of Re
piefentatives have palled a bill, entitled,
" Ail act providing for the relief of such
of the inhabitants of Saint Domingo, re
sident within the United States, as may
be found in want of support," in which
they delired the concurrence of the Senate.
And he withdrew.
The bill was read the firft time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Wednesday, February 5.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" An ast providing for the relief of such
of the inhabitants of Saint Domingo, re
sident within the United States, a« may
be found in want of support"—was read
the second time, and after debate, the
further coufideration thereof was postpon
ed until to-morrow.
Mr. Cabot reported from the commit
tee appointed to take into consideration
the last clause of the meflage of the Presi
dent of the United States of the 30th of
December, which report was read, and
after debate,
Ordered, That it lie on the table.
Agreeable to the order of the dav, the
Senate resumed the consideration of the
motion made the 16th January last, th't
the doors of the Senate remain open wl.ile
the Senate (hall be fitting in a legislative
and judirial capacity.
On motion,
Ordered, That the consideration there
of be postponed to this day fortnight.
The Senate adjourned to i j o'clock,
to-morrow morning
Thursday, February 6.
The hon. Mr. Potts from the state of
Maryland attended.
The petition of Jonathan Helton, late
a lieutenant in the militia of New-Hampj
(hire, was presented and read, dating that
he was wounded in the brittle of Benning
ton, and disabled from labor, and pravius*
to be re-instated in the lift of invalid pen
sioners.
Ordered, That this petition be referred
to the Secretary fcr the department of
war to consider and report thereon to the
Senate.
The Senate resumed the second reading
of the bill, lent from the House of Re
prefencatives for concurrence, entitled,
" An ast providing for the relief of such
of the inhabitants of Saint Domingo, re
lident within the United States as may be
found in want of support."
On morion,
That it be re-committcd for the pur
pole of further enquiry—
It pa fled in th e negative.
And after agreeing to an amendment,
Ordered, That this bill pais to the third
reading.
Agreeable to the order of the day, the
Senate proceeded to the consideration of
the report of the committee on the lalt
clause, of the meflage of the President of
the United States, of the 30th of De
cember.
On motion,
To re-commit the report, and that the
committee be inlltuftcd to bring in a bill
for the purposes therein mentioned.
It passed in the negative.
On motion,
It was agreed that the report of the
committee be adopted.
Whereupon,
A resolution pasTed, as is entered at
large, on the Executive records of this
date.
Ordered, That the Secretary desire the
concurrence of the lioufe of Representa
tives in this resolution.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
PRICE of STOCKS.:
PHILADELPHIA.
6 per cents, i g\ji>
3 ditto, 10/3
Deferred, 11/4.
U. S. Bank, 13 per cent. adr.
N. A. ditto, 20 ditto ditto.
Pennsylvania do. 7 ditto ditta.From the American St a k
A Frcnch paper, publifii d in this city
Present Jlate of Poland.
Since the divisions made at Grodno,
the size of Poland is 4,41 1 half square
miles, and contains 762 towns, 11,260
villages, 626,248 houses, 3,468,808. in
habitants, 36,08 1 soldiers, and produces a
revenue of 17,711,604 Polilh florins.
The part subdued by Rulfia is 4, 15 7
half square miles large, :.nd contains 390
towns, 8,783 villages, 574,654 lmufes,
3,055,590 inhabitants, 24,660 soldiers,
and its reyeoue is 13,619,946 Polish flo-
rins.
The part invaded by Prussia is of I lie
size of 1,061 square miles, and contains
262 towns,B,2 4 villages, 195,0 16houfes,
j,136„3J9 inhabitants, and its revenue is
6,870,486 Poliill
The former divjiion of Poland", added
an increase of population to Russia of
2,100,000 inhabitants; the part of the
king of Prussia contains 650,000 ; the
part of Austria, including .vhat was taken
from the Turks, contains a population of
2,800,000 inhabitants.
ExtraSfrom tie Courier of London, A 0. 39.
" The Convention approves of the de
crees made by the department o: Kerauk
(Montpe'.'ierj ordering all fathers, mo
thers, and citizens, to inform and declare
the places where their children, who have
been summoned, are hid ; forbidding all
citizens from harboring them ; and oblig
ing the mnnicfpalities to search every
house twice a week. O sacred and charm
ing Liberty, which forces a mother to be
come the informer of her child !"
M fe.—The fame paper mentions, that
it has been proposed in the'cTub of female
Jacobins, to guillotine all women wl>o are
either barren or old, as being useless per;
lons in this land ofliberty."
If this anecdote is not an a'riftocratical
joke of the London editor, it is a confir
mation of the ancient rancour that young
women always had against old ones—it is
a quarrel as old as the wcfld, and which
perhaps the guillotine may for a while put
a stop to, but can pever entirely eradicate;
bccaufe there will always be old women
of a crabbed disposition, and young ones
very although amiable in every
other r fp;
44 F> 'j<n the mcjl powerful of Gods I re
il c/ivribmy birik ;
44 Jam corjid'nt of it from the f>Wif">r I
44 have in vengeance."— Crebillon.
From the Middlesex (Con.J Gazette,
A Dialogue let-wi'.-n Willy Frank and
Faithful Columbus, tiuo Farmers.
Willy. MY dear Sir, I have come a
long journey, to have a conference with
vju with refpefi to the management of
the Fanr.Vef which we have the care.
Faithful'. Sir, I thank you, any advice
you can give me and my Family in the
management of ours (hall be gratefully
received, and improved in the bed manner
we are capable : And you may atTure your
felf of my reciprocal advice for the bene
fit o r yours.
Willy. 1 thank you, brother Farmer.
I expected nothing less from so good a
friend, and his good Family : And though
I am personally a perfect (hanger, yet
confider-ng our Family Connexions, and
the kindnefies your family in time past
have received from mine, I am confident
of fjitallc returns. And now, fir, with a
freedom and franknefs without difgmfe, I
will ln'orm you what those returns are
You must manage your Fann just as we
manage ours ;oras we ftia 1 1 judge most
for our benefit, so that the Fruit of your
Labor, and the Produce of your Fields,
and all your family improvements upon
your Farm, may be turned by us to the
advantage of our Farm. And if your
connections and engagements with any of
your neighboring farmers, or any other
farmers, far or near, interfere with this,
you have only to break them off all at
once, and immediately to conform to us ;
and then we Ihall go 011 lovingly and swim-
rningly.
Faithful. The love and frier,dfhip of
our family for yours is most sincere, and
for any obligations you may have laid us
under, you may allure yourfelvcs of all
leafonable and proper returns. But that
our Farm (hall be managed ns you are
pleased to manage yours, and the interest
of it appropriated to answer your views.
Jolely, is what our moral and political du
ties, and our true ioterelt, and give me
leave to add, your duties and interest too,
will not admit. The inftru&ions we have
received in our family and the principles
in which we are educated, teach us, that
the ir.tereft of all other Farmers is as dear
to them as ours is to us, and that we are
under sacred obligations to deal justly and
equitably with all with whom we have any
connection or commerce. To those from
whom we receive kindnefles, we feel our
selves under peculiar obligations, and en
deavor to make suitable Returns. We in
terfere, unaiked, in the intern: 1 affairs of
none, and take no part in their domestic
family Disputes and Quarrels. And while
by your dciire, we are ready to give you
our best advice, and every afiiftance that
propriety dictates to improve your own
ajfairt, you must give us leave to take care
of our own, without your too officious
interference, and to be humane and just
to other Farmers as well as to you.
Willy. Have I come io far then in all
the warmth of zeal and flames of enthusi
asm to meet with such a cold reception ?
to have no encomiums laviftied upon me
and mine, for our late improvements, and
for our profeCed skill and delign to teach
all other farmers-how to improve. Know
then, fir, I came not hither, to be inftrudl
ed, but to inftruil you and yours ; and,
if necessary, and if poiTible, by force to
ob'igc you to confirm to our-fentiments
and pra&ices as you value our fnendfhip
with which your hnppinefs, and very ex
igence is so clofelv connected, and not ob
ly yours but that of toute le Monde.
Faithful. Be calm, my friend, I fear
all your sentiments are not just ; and that
your zeal and warmth carry you too far,
and even to such lengths, as would not be
conlidcred by the moil intelligent and ju
dicious part of your own family, to be for
their benefit. Our family always consult
together in such cafcs, and after calmly
giving and receiving all neceflary infor
mation, with deliberation and harmony
proceed according to the opinion of the
majority, and as is thought to be for the
beil good of the whole,
b'Uly. Then, Sir, I infill that you call
your family, immediately together, and take
their fentimcr.ts : for, from my own feel
ings, and designs, and from converting
with foine of them, I am confident that
they will be of my opinion rather than
yours.
Faithful. You mull give me leave to
differ from yon in sentiment. The family
have been well bro't up : They have form
ed fte*dy habits: They have their dated
times of meeting to consult upon family
affairs : One of these times is now near
approaching : They are now busily em
ployed in their own more private concerns ;
a present interruption to them. I am per
suaded would be disagreeable to them,
and be, by them as it i» by me, (such ia
the mutual affection and confidence fub
filting in the family) looked upon impro
per and unreasonable.
Besides, I am free to tell you, that if
we (hould comply with your motions, 1
think we should give just occasion for um
brage and complaint to some very sub
stantial Farmers, with whom we have con
nections, and would wiih to maintain, a
friendly intercom fe.
Willy. Humph ! I fee you have a re
gard to old ych:> Bull, and Don Philip,
and fan Mynheer, and are unwilling to
facrifice your fooliih expectations from
them.
Faithful. Moral obligations are indeed
sacred with us : They support our politi
cal engagements, & may not be dispensed
with. If others stain their charadtar by
infringing them, we would not stain ours
by atting like them. We will pursue just
and laudable measures in seeking redress
for injuries, and such measures, with the
blessing of Heaven, we are confident will
always be e(Fe£lual.
Pray, Sir, be calm and reason, and your
own good sense will incline you to the
fame opinion, and you will reft fatisfied
with our conduit and proceedings.
Willy. Be calm and reafen ! My blood
and Gizzard! How I feel! and what
fools arc all they who do not feel as I do !
Be calm and reason, forfooth ! mind mo
ra! principles ! Ay, perhaps religion too,
and the religion of the Bible, that anti
quated, exploded book, a book that re
quires us to regard a divine Providence
and power ! What deity is there but Li
berty? And what tsLiherty,but todo as I
pleaie, arid to have all mankind to con
form to my plcafure, and do as I would
have them ? I acknowledge no other Dei
ty : I worship no other God.
Faithful. But 1 have always acknow
ledged the one only living and true God:
The whole Family have been taught to
do so. We regard his Providence and
word. Hi. divine help we have experi
enced in remarkable instances. Our no
tions of liberty are different from your's.
In the management of our affairs we de
pend upon his divine direction and bles
sing, and in this dependence, while we
endeavour to do our duty, we have no
thing anxiously to fear.
Should we conform to your notions we
mud deviate from this course : Therefore
you ought not, and mutt not expect it.
Willy. Look you then fir, if this be
your determination, and I cannot excite
an opposition in your own family, too
strong for you, which I (hall fitft attempt
—I will cover myfelf with my frize coat,
and with (hrtigging (houlders and a ghast
ly grin—wish you all to the Devil.
NEW-YORK, Feb. 8.
From the London Gazelle, of the 23 d.
November.
Whitehall, Nov. 20.
The dispatches, of which the following
is a copy (which had not been received
when the '. ft accounts were published)
were yesterday received at the office of
the Right Hon. Henry Dundas, his
Majesty's principal secretary of state,
for the home department.
La Malgne, Oct. 16.
My Lord,
I have the honor to inform your Lord
ship, that in consequence of the enemy's
having repeatedly appeared on the impor
tant hill of Cape Bran, which oveilooks
this fort, and commands a great part of
the harbour, I ordered 100 men of Huif
teins, or battalion of Royal Louis, to be
polled there, and on the 14th, repaired
there with the engineers, to prepare for
its defence ; and after they had marked
out the situation of an intended work, I
sent a reinforcement of 100 of the regt.
of Royal Louis. On the 15th, before
day, the report of mufquetry was heard,
which increased with the light, and in
duced me to order 100 of the 30th. rcgt.
100 Neapolitans, 50 Spaniards, and the
remainder of the Royal Louis, to follow
me there. By the time I got to the bot
tom of the hill the fire was become very
briik, and i had some difficulty to get up
by the road. The troops from La Mal
gne were nearly up, by a (hort road thro'
vineyards. I detached Capt. Torriano of
the 30th to go round left of the hill, and
take the enemy on their right flank ; this
had the dcfired effect, and they gave
way
On the top of the hill, I found the
iloyal Louis defending thcmfelves gallant
ly, although hard pressed, but the out
pods beingdriven in and the men in want of
cartridges. I advanced with the frefh
troops, and recovered our out posts, after
an obstinate resistance, and placed Capt.
Tomlinfon, of the 30th regiment, in the
advance, the Neapolitan regiment in the
center, Capt. Torriano on the left, with
Royal Louis and the Spanilh troops on
the right: and it was near an hour before
the enemy retired. They were supported
by cannon—we had none. I had previ
ously sent an aid-de-camp to La Malgne
for cartridges,and toToulon for a support
of troops. The enemy, notwithstanding
they were greater in force than I expected,
did not seem disposed to renew the attack ;
insomuch, that 1 ordered the workmen to
begin the redoubt, visited the posts, and
then returned to the fort for the purpose
of hurrying up guns, ammunition, provi
sions, &c. and repeating my request of
men from Toulon. In half an hour after
I had left Cape Brun, the whole army of
the enemy had advanced under cover of
woods, and supported by artillery, attack
ed the port on all fides, and carried it in
consequence of numbers, notwithstanding
a most diflinguifhed resistance. lam fqr
ry to inform, that in both affairs, many
officers and brave men fell. In the person
of Captain Torriano his majtfty loft one
of the most refpe&able officers in Europe.
Were I to enter upon the condufl of the
officers and men, I should fail in doing jus
tice to their merit. The 30th .regiment
did all that men could do; and the bat
talion of Royal Louis, although only a
few davs formed, fought with determined
valor. The fortunate recovery ot the post
was so immediately under your Lordlhip's
eye, that it is unneceflary for me to add
more, than that I have the honor to be,
See.
George K. Etyblnjlone.
Right Hon. Lord Hood.
Return of the killed, wounded and mifn
ing, O&ober 13, 1793, on Cape Bran.
Britifh—3oth regt. 2 captains killed, I
lieut, 9 rank and file wounded, I lieut.
4 rank and file miffing.
Spanilh—Marines, 4 rank and file wound
ed.
Regt. of Majorca, 1 rank and file wound
ed.
Neapolitans—Regt. of Burgoyne,6 rank
and file wounued, 4 rank and file mil
fing.
Regt. of Royal Louis, 1 capt. 1 lieut. 9
rank and file killed, 1 capt. 1 lieut. 15
rank and file wounded, 1 lieut. 11 rank
and file miffing.
Total of killed, wounded and milling, 3
capts. 5 lieuts. aud 63 rank and file.
PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 10.
HOTEL LOTTERr, Feb. 5.
No. 37,531— drawn Tuesday the 4th
February—The HOTEL.
Said to be the property of 4 persons ill
this City.
The wheel has gained 50,000 dollars,
and the high prizes are yet in—Say
25,000 —20,000 —15,000—2 of 5000 —
and 3 of 1000.
About 16,000 Tickcts undrawn, not
more than one blank to a prize.
CONGRESS.
Hcufe of Representatives.
Monday, Feb. 10.
A report was read from the committee
of elections on the contested eledtion of
the member from the (late of Delaware—
this report wa6 against the eleflion of the
fitting member, Mr. Patton, and m favor
of the petitioner, Mr. Latimer.
Referred to the committee of thewhole
for Thursday next.
The House took into consideration the
report of a committee on the cafe of sun
dry vefiels which tock refuge in the ports
of the United States the last summer—in
this report it is recommended that the fo
reign tonnage duty, should be remitted—
after some debate, the report was agreed
to, and a committee appointed to prepare
and bring in a bill-
In committee of the whole on the Al
gerine business after further debate
progref»' was reported—without a deti
fion.
Died, at Calcutta, Capt. Jacob Sarley,
of New-York.
SHIP NEWS.
Arrived at New-York.
Ship Courageaux, Swaine, B. Del&go
Brig Friendlhip, Gardner, Curraco*
lfabella & Ann, Hampton, St.Kitts
Lift of Veflels Arrived.
Nov. 14, at Lisbon, ship Patty, Campbell
from New-York.
Nov. 2, at Corunna, 2 brigs from Boston.
Nov. 5. Brig Dolphin, Capt. Dalton,
from New-York.
o£l. 31. Industry, William Perry, from
Philadelphia.
Odt. 28. Sailed for Hamburg, schooner
Dispatch, William Wallace.
To fail under Spanish Convoy, 23 Ame
rican veflels.
At Cura, after a narrow escape of a Cor
sair, the brig Susan and Patty, from New-
York to Carthagena—at Gibraltar, in like
manner chafed by an Algerine, the Dcbo
naire, Captain Gooch, from Malaga—at
Gibraltar, the brig Rover, Capt. Smith, from
Baltimore —at Bilboa, the brig i.agle, of
Boston.
The schooner Goddess of Liberty* Thos.
Sanders, master, was i'afe arrived at Mala
ga the 9th of November.
To the MtWt'tti Officers of Pennsylvania.
r T _I HE Officers of the First Divifiot\
X of the Militia of the State of Penn
sylvania, are requefied to meet at the Philo
sophical Hall, on Wtdncfday Evening, the
12th instant—To receive and take into con
federation the Report of their Committee on
thefuh*e<sl of the State Law, as it now Hands.
Such other Officers of the Mititia of Pem ~
fylvania, as may be in town, arc requtlkrt
to attend laid Meeting; and should any of
them be at the trouble of committing- their
thoughts on this very important fubjedl to
writing, they will be gladly received and
dulv considered.
These observations are intended to be laid
before a Committee of the Alterably, who
appear to have every disposition to bring for
ward as perfecl a Syitem, as the Exiiling
Law of the United States will poilibly ac
mlt.
WALTER STEWART,
Major-General ift Division.
djt.
Feb. ic.eale's Museum,
P
HAS I atcly rrc' 'ved a number of article* ;
i-m iijj which arc the following ; That
rem • kahlc bud exiled the Cu-waicr, or feif
ars-hili; The Aviileiir, commonly eaiitd ihr
Shoe-m.ik- ', bceaufe c»t its bill releiiil)•••»<>
cii/iikul hw| —1 h< Long-leg-., commonly call
ed (hi black.l rt, havmg perhaps the lr«ng< ft legs,
Hi piopoiiiou to tli' ft*t- nl ihe bird, oi any of
thefcMh. red iiinc—-Tin- Slot m finch, common-
Jy called mother Cnf'i chuk<n—l he Sea
fwaln-w, and varrous Gulls; 'elides a vaneiy
ol C»aii< s, .Curlews, Snipts, &c.
Thi hull of a Whale iiid one ol its Vertebras.
An Indian haicmt made of clnvAal: It is
curious ' h*t thofc unintoimed wild peoplr, hav
ing very little knowledge of the ait.», and firing
ignorant ol the exilleaceot iron ar.d ftec-l,
fhnuid be able to form such hard fuhOanots in
to sam iful farms a* this, oih r Indian ma
iiu'-flir v.« now in ihe Mufcum.
A I'guifiril Quince : Ihe specimen Chews
what a remarkable etfeft a dry warm fuuation
ba« on 'ruit. It is now about 8 years fmce it
w.isgathered ; and it was a real quince, now bc-
Come wood, at leall in appearance.
Prelentcd hv Mis. Manfon ol Charleftown,
S. C.—atoolufrd by the O aheitans in making
their baik clod;, by pounding the baik on this
ittllii inciH of wood, it produces the libs which
. rrlrmbh- threads : the peifrflly flraight and
.eoiijt I vs made in 'his extreme hard wood, by
tv.en without ihe use of irou,aie curious &c won
dv 11 ul.
rtMo, a rope made of grals, part of the tigg
ing of a vclffl of K&mtkaika.
Pie(en!«d by Di .H'U, of Lewis-town, a Squib
in Spirits : when thii tilh was tound, a number
of (fonts were append'd to filings or ligaments
that pioj.&ed from the front ot its head,which
occasioned a conje&uie, as it not fuinifhrd
with fuflicicnt fins to refill the violence of the
tide and currents, that it fattened wi.h thcfc li
gaments On whatever it found ai the bottom ; so
that the Hones answered the purpofeof anchors
and the ligaments of a gluiinous tlicky nature,
that ot tables. Some ot the Clones are in the
fame phial.
A colb ftion of Minerals and other Foffils
a«e now dilplayed in drawers covered with glass
and in a modewhich willfeeure them from de
rangement. To each specimen are affixed refc
rciv e$ 10 a book of descriptions. 1 his manage
ment ol'fpecinuus of the Foifil kingdom, ren
ders this part of the Museum very convenient
and. fatisioOor\ ,and gtcat attention will be paid
jo re fvftemaneal order of tVictTv, and in mak
ing ihe noci ffarv essays of each : AI so in giving I
in at ouitfc m liner, the various itles tfiev are
applied, to, thereby rendering them the cuorc
huereflutg to the public.
A Living E!K, of 2 years o'd, k itift receiv
ed. Ky ihe account winch nnmt. H.ifFon gives
ol the Elk, it appears that he whs not acquaint
ed with this American animal; he pamcularly
•milts all notice of the curious apeitures adjoin
ir.g the eyes of this Elk.
George Bringhurll,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Street:-, dj>:ning the Epilcopal burying
gi ound,
' | N AftES this opportunity of returning his
1 grateful thank l ; to his former employers,
and i equalling their future favors, as well as
tho l e ot t'ie putiiic in geneval.
lie continues to make and repair at the
fh .'i tell notice, all kinds of pleasure carriage*,
, such a~. coache-, chariot*, phaetons with and
without crane necks, toachees, chaises, kitte
reens, wii.dlor ftilkeys and chaits, and harness
of evwv deTcription, in the neatest and new eft
fa (hi ou now prevailing »n the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the bed feafimed
wood bv him, and capital workmen, he ha"
not the least dou'>t but he will be able to give
fatistation to those who please to employ him
He has for sale, several carriages almolt
finirtted, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fuikey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commifiion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794. m&t3m
Notice is hereby given,
r PHAT the fubferiber has been duly ap
i. pointed Adminittrati ix on the f
His Excellency John Hancock, Efq
Boil nt f in the county of Suffolk, dec. , anu
has taken upon herfelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law dire&s—and all perfonsin
" terefted, are deftred to take notice accord-
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
B oft on, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
ALL per funs who have anvdemands against
-he Eflatr of his late Excellency JOHN
H ACOCK, E r q. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subscriber, AVjornev
to the Adminiflratrix of said Etlate : ail
perfous who Cland indebted to said Estate, are
reqocdcd to fettle with hint immediately ; as the
A x f of Limitation of Anions, which is to take
place on the fr fl day of December next, will
otherwise render it him to com
mence suits aga'nff thein.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Adminillratrix.
E'flon.Nov. 13. 1793.
N B The Pi inters throughout ?h?n Com
nionw<M'th, aie reqiufted to insert this rn their
'nfycctwc new 1 papers, and forwa:d their ac
counts for the fame, to J. M
This day is pubViJhed
By MATHEW CAREY,
Na 1 1 8, M A R KET-ST R EET,
f Price a quarter dollar)
A short account of ALGIERS,
Containing a dclci ipuon ot the climate of that
country — of the manners and cuflomi of the in.
habitants, and ol their L veral wars against Spain,
France, England, Holland, Venice, and other
powers ot Europe, hom the uiurpacon of Bar
baroila and the invasion ot trie Emperor Charles
V. to ihe present time; with a eoncife view of
iheoiigin of the ruptuie hetwcca ALGIERS
and the UNITED STATES.
.!*"• »■
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. RICE, No. 50, Market-street,
alio, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Market-street,
( Price, bound, 6/T) 2 )
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story
TO IFHICH IS .IDDF.Df
The Indian Cottage
From the French of M. de St. Pierre.
" THE above Sioi ks have been lately pub
lifheH, amongst the works ot a very different
nature, by M. de St. Pierre, who rcfided in the
country which it describes, and was well ac
quainted wi(h the principal fatts. Its orna
ments are the Landfcapc—the Climate—and
the natural history of the Torrid Zone, ebfer
ved with the eye of Tafle, and delineated with
the eye of Philosophical knowledge. It is a
Pa flora I, of which the fable and the machine
ry may be said to be cqnally real. To the to are
added, ihe pure vein of Moral Inflruftion, and
Pierre."
d^t
Feb. i
Insurance Company.
January 6, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given to the members
of the Insurance Company of North-
America, that the Dire&ors have declared a
dividend (for the last fix months) of six Per
Cent, on the amount of the fir it and second
inllalments ; and of one per cent per month
on the funis paid in anticipation of the third
instalment, c alculating from the firft day of
the month following that, in which those pay
ments were made. The dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders, nr their representatives,
at the company's office,' No.' j 19 south Front
ftreet, at any time after the 13th instant.
By order of the Directors.
EBkNEZER HAZARD, Secretary.
J an - 9- w&f.im.
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representatives f
December axft, 1793.
WHEREAS the CommiflTiontrs of public
Accounts, hdve reported, that they can
not proceed to the invefttgation of the Treasury
Accounts, refpeding special Indents, without
knowing the ouiftanding amount thereof in cir
culation :—Therefore,
Aefolvcd, That all holders of special Indents
be direded, and rrquir«o t on or before the firft
day of November n- xi, to deliver the special In
dents in their poflVflion to one or other of the
Commiflioncrs of .the Treasury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to report to the Com
midtoners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
them relpe&ively received, and also to the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next.
And that all fpccial Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on ®r before the firft day
of November next, shall be, and the fame arc
hereby barred.
Rcjolved, That public notice of this fefolution
be in the leveral Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the fiift day of
November next . And that the Delegates of this
State in the CongielS of the United States, be re
quested to cause this resolution to be publifVied
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for the expences attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
•Senate for their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SANFORD DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
Pecember Sift, 1793.
Refolvrd, That this House do concur with the
Houie of Reprefcntatives in the foregoing ref
lations. ,
Ordered, That the resolutions be lent to the
House of Representatives.
By order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
cwtNov.
Treasury Department,
XTOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will
IN be received at the Office of the Secretary
of the Treasury, until the 6th of February next
inclutipe, for the supply of all Rations which
may be required during the present year, at the
feveraf places of rendezvous hereafter mention
ed, lor the Recruiting Service, viz.
At New-Bi unfwick, in New-Jerfcy;
At Philadelphia,
At Laocafter, > in Pennsylvania.
At Reading, )
The rations to be furnifhed are to consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or £ of a pound of pork,
Half a j»ll of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quti t of ult
Two quarts of vinegars
lwo pounds o< soap > IOC rat,ons -
On< pound of candlcs)
MONEY borrowed or leaned, accounts IW
ted or colle&ed, employer* [uiied with
domcltics, houfc rooms, boarding and lodging
tented, let or procured—soldier's, mariner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims 00 the
public ; (hares in the banks, in the canals, and
the turnpike road ; certificates granted by the
public, and the old and late paper monies;
notes of hand, bills, bonds a«id morgages, with
or without depofus—Bought, fold, or cego
ciated at No. 8, ia fouih Sixth-ftrret, below
Market-firect by FRANCIS WHITE,
Who tranfa£U business in tho public offices for
country people and others, by virtue of a pow
er of attorney, or by personal application.
Decern 41/r 11
fuft Imported,
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
And now opening for iale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
■At No. 118, Market Jlreet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Regilter for I 792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty, a collection of eflays
Varieof Prussia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
Ruflell's ancient and modern Europe
I-anghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Briffon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kilfrs of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy f
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immaterial ism
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Volfraire
De Kon's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer ot'France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's (ketches of the history of men
Liberal opinion;, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse di<stionary
Reveries offofitude
Smith's theory of moral lentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. & Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wftnley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark, Ruflia, Poland, ire.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grrigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid-
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of childre»
Qiiincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on feveri
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's difTertations
London practice of physic
Bell's surgery
Cbaptal's chemistry.
itwUiF.
ALL persons having any de
mands agauift the eltate ot GIORGE
WIbLE, late of the city ot Philadelphia, baker,
are nquefted to bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated ; and those who are indebted, are
deflred to make immediate payment.
HENRY REES, Aminiflrator.
January 13.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Secend-Jlreci,
Seconddoor below the corner ofChefnut-ftrcet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general AJJortmcnt of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be disposed ot on the Jowelt rerins.
P*c- *3- mw&ftt
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookfcller, at the Stone Hiiufe, in Second
ftreevPhiladt*lphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Of Arts, Sciences, and Miscellaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new j
sr WHICH
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are digefied into the form of
Diftinft Treaties or Svftems:
THIS volume contains principles of Levels,
Liberty, Doctrine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, Hittory of Lon
don, Longirude, Luther, Lydia, Macerlon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, Hil
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical *nd
Miscellaneous articles, illullrated with Twln
ty Two Copperplates.
As a number ol families *re still in the
country, and it is rot generally known who
areieturned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the subscribers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
polTible.
The TENTH VOLUME of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public; but at it makes
its appearance in an imperfect state, loine ac
count of the reason of thatimpeifeaion (huuld
be [>iven. On the Bth of September lafl, the
Publiftier had the misfortune of having his
Printing Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of hi? printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the riau»ES, with
which he was printing the tablss or ka
garithms, belonging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence ol" the tire.
As a supply of thel'c conld not be immediately
obtained, he was under the necessity of pub
lilhing the volume without thele tables; but
hopes he (hall (>e able to puhlifh them with the
next volume which is now in confidcrablc fur-
wardnefs.
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
exprefling his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very literal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to such of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necessity of
punctuality, both in taking up ihe volumes as
early as poflible after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the fub
feribers having got only one, two, three, &rc.
volumes, and several volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to tne individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpaid lays the Publisher under
very serious embarraifmetit, and deprives hiui
of the use of many Thousands of Dollars whicfc
at this time would be of very eifcntial fervictr.
For tliefe reasons the Publisher finds himfejf
under the necessity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those who
take and pay to the time of publication.
December io.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. i6> Wtll-ftreet, Niw-YokK.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the. PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b<g« leave to of
fcr his Cervices to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, tnay tl< p< »d
upon having it tranfa&cd with the uiraoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
•ther part of the United State?, will be flri&ly
attended to. • LEOMARD BLEECKER.
Terms of Subscription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Suhfcriptions of perfous
who reside at a dijlance from the city, to he
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advertifemcnt% of onefquareor lefs 9 in
fer tedfour times for One Dollar—once., for
Fifty Cents—nnd continuations at Twenty-
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line, and Suhfcrip
tions > will be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourth-flreet, Jive doors north of the
Indian Queen
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. J,
South Fourth-Street.
zawtl J.