EVENING AD V E R T I S E R.
[JKTo. 18 of Vol. V.]
Parry and Mufgr?^,
No. 42,
SOUTH StCdNti-sfSEtT,
H AVE fO-ft SALK,
An e/egMt Affnrtmint of
SILVER iff PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY &ft* CUTLERY,
Wbichf they wil] «11/pote of on the woft rea
sonable terms. Devices in haify Miniatures
ifcrt, *rtd every tfrrng in the gold arid lilver
way, «ior>e as uiirai.
December 24.
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening fjr Sale,
By M. C A R E Y,
. No. 113,
A large and valuable collection ofBOOKS t
imported from London in the Mohawk.
Dec. J 9. . .
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, Saulh Secend'Jlrect,
Second door Iwlnw th*r cornerofChelnut-ftretf,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain ar.ct Ireland,
A large fund general AJfortmenl of
New Books and Stationary,
"\V4iich will be difj>oi*ed ot'oa the loveft terms.
Die. 23. mw&ftf
NOW IN THE PRESS,
And Wt/1 fpltdiiy is futblyheJ,
T*t
United States Register,
For the Year i 794.;
Containing, befictes accurate and complete
lifts of all the Officer* if» the general, and the
principal Officers in the particular govern
inents, a variety of information, uiefiit Tor all
tf
AtttfftfS,
IN 0 i< jx. 1>
B,ct of the-New Library, between Cheiiiut
and Walnut Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the puMic in general, that he continues
cai ry'mg on the buhnefs of
Si°"n and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
fur dooriov wiliflovv-lhutti.-rijdone in the moll
elezant manner, and with dispatch.
order? from the country will be thanklully
received. anfl duly attended to.
December 30.
NOTICE
IS he re I', y giver, to the IVltMßEfts of the
INURANCE CoMTANY of NoRT H-AMF.RI C A,
That the third Inftalmeiit, being Two Dollars
on each Orate of the Stock, is to be paid, a
fcrevahlv to ihe Cof.ftitntion, 011 the lecond
Monday [the 13th day] of January nest : And
a Central i-leding of the Stockholders is to be
held on the succeeding day, tor the purpose ol
choosing FiJ'teen Dirtßors, examining into the
Situarieft of the Company's Affairs, and ma
king fucli additional Rules and R.egulatians
as thev lhall judge necell.irv.
EBENE7.ER HAZARD, Secratary.
Dec. 16. mw&ft 3 . 1J
MONEY borrowed or loaned, accounts flu
ted er collcftcd, employers fuired with
domeftic<, house rooms, boarding and lodging
rented, let or procured—soldier's, mariner's,
or militia men's p»Y, lands ami claims on the
public ; lhares in the hanks, in the canals, »nd
the turnpike road ; ceitifieates granted by the
t>nb!ie, a'fld the old and hie paper monies ;
-notes of hand, bills, bonds and morgaget, with
m without depo'-its—Bought, fold, or t>eg<>-
riated at No. 8, in south Sixth-ftrect, below
"\larket-llreet by FRANCIS WHITE,
Whotranfafts bufincfs m th« public offices tor
country peop'e and others, by vtrtueof a pow
er of attorney, or by per iorval aplication.
• Docc-mber Ix. "
E. OSWALD,
No. 156, Market-Sfeet, South,
\ T the reqneft <rf a number of friends,
A. proposes publifliing The IkdWendent
Gazetteer, twice a week, viz YVednefdavJ
and Saturdays—to commence 111 January next,
if fitfficient encoeragement offers
It will be publiflu'd on Paper and Types
equal to its prefeot appearance. Tl.t fub
icription V; dollars per ann.
Advertisements not exceeding a Jqwarc,
«| be iu'erted 4 times for t dollar—eveiy
continuance rtne fifth of a dollar. Iho e e*-
ceeding a fquarr, in the fame proportion.
For the QstxUits of the Uitirsu Sr. trs.
Tbt folkrwing ai-reont-immt t>f afi the-im
of a ytjrr—4bewittg on what day of the l
week tkey federally fall, has txen found'
vtvy convenient in accompting houfcs
and tradefrnen's shops, and is a ready
Almanac to all ciafles of citizens, wlx» I
wife a reference to any particular dun, \
kack, forward, or the present.
niwt'ftf
January
February
March
April
Mav
June
July -
August -
September
Odlober -
November
Thursday, January 2, f/94.
s £ 2 3 d ? 2=
I. f 5, a. s !•' =
•3 S* 8- g 2 •? |
*■ •« al*. 4i
1 ' . . i
i
0001234
5 6 7 8 (J IO I !
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 *1 22 23 24 25
26 27 29 30 3 1 I
2345678
9 td II 12 13 14,15
'16 17 i 3 19 20 2122
13 24 2c 26 27 i 8 1
2345678
9 IO II 12 13 14 J5
16 r7 18 19 20 si 22
23 24 25 26 27 28 29
3° 3 1 1 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 11
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 13 24 25 26
27 28 29 30 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
18 19 20 21 52 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
i 2 3 4 5 '6 7
8 9 IO It 13 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27-28
29 30 1 2
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
iS 1 i - ii
27 26 19 30 31 1 2
3456789
10 11 12 13 I 4 15 1®
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 z' 3 26 27 28 29 30
31123456
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 23 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 i 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 ij 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23- 24 25
«. ?.6 27 28 29 30 31 1
2345678
9 10 11 12 13 14 15
16 17 18 19 20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27 »8 29
-3012 3 4 5 6
December
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31 0.0 o
TO THE PUBLIC.
1-r-iHE undernamed committee, appointed by
JL '■ THE SOCIETY for the INSTITU
TION and SUPPORT of FIRST-DAY or
SUNDAY SCHOOLS in the city of Philadel
phia and the dillriA of Souihwark and the
Northern Liberties," to solicit further fubfenp
lions lor the fupfort of the schools which the
said lociety have'eftablifhed, take the liberty to
rcprefent to their lellow citizens
Thai, although the school? were suspended
during the period of the late avrlul calamity
with which oor city and suburbs have been al
fl fled, they are now again opened lor the free
admiflion and education of poor children.
That, the flectffny and rtafons tor the eftab
| lilhmcnt of thele schools are increased, fiom the
crcunift.mce ol the late distress having left a ]
number ol Orphans dettitute of all the means
of education, favc what the hand ol benevolence
may administer.
That* former experience has, molt pleaimgly,
verified the fundi ft hopes ot the friends ol this
inllit'ution, with regard to the piogiefs and ad
vancement of the children, who have heretofore
been under its care, in the ufeful branche. ot
education which it has affordid. Referring to
this fa-ft, and to the address to the public. on
tins fuhjcfl, puhlifhed in the nr wfpaper* ot this
citv hi "the third month I ast, when about eight
hundred and twenty children ol both fexrs had
partaken ol the benefits aflended by the lociety,
and about three hundred and twfftly rami were
aflnallv teceiving inlliufliort in 1 ' ~r' r
fchtfols, it now only rttmains to he oldeived,
A N D
that r ■: c funds of the foeirty are greatly infuffi-
CU &&PS*I*V their benevolent ihd
ily rr miutnoe formerly appointed 10 i.rli, t
U<coucctved it r.tceflaiy to. d/rlini
' 'r .'nt>iiraii«M»a to their fellow-cu-zens for
then afßftance in Uvor of tbefe schools, in order
that ihcie might be i\o intci rupiioti f rom tbcro
to ihe foliciiatiows then made in behalf of ihtir
Unfortunate Srethrrn from Cape-Francois.
Ihe pul»l*c aid is now therefore earncftly £>-
Ucifrd to fnopoi t a cliai ruble eilablifhmen', cal
culated upon the piiuciphs of public and pri
vate good. The annual fubferipuon tor a nu-in.
her is t>ut One Dollar ; and it is presumed that
so faiall a Cum per annum cannot he better dif
poC-d of, by thole who can afford it, than bv
as ibe price of the d iffufinn of ufdui
knowledge zmaiig the poor and Iriendlefv
Subfcnptiposand donations wtfl be gratefully
rcceivtd by the undernamed commute** ou be
half ol the society :
Pcfrr. Thomp(on,
Thomas P. Cope,
Joseph Price,
Edward Pole,
J runes Hardic,
William lunu,
Kenjamin Sav,
Nai4>atml Falconer,
Kancis Bailey,
J Me
Samuel Sciitttiij
Peter Barker.
OBS E R V A 7 lON S
RIVER POTOMACK,
THK CovKwr Jldjmcmut, AND THK
CITY OF WASHINGTON.
(Continued from our hi/l.)
THE number of inhabitants living in
the several counties of Virginia and Ma
ryland, bordering upon the Potomack or
its branches, amount to upwards of three
hundred thousand, according to the cen
sus taken by order of the gerteral govern
ment, in the year 1791, They art all,
or so nearly so, that not one fiftieth part
can_be excepted, cultivators of the foil.—
easy to conceive, that they
to the (hipping ports on IM" nWJ. t>jrr,
ft ill so eKtenfive is the country thro' which
3 4 5
the Potomack and its branches pass, that
it is yet but thinly fettled ; its inhabitants
are, however, very rapidly multiplying,
as well by emigration as by the natural
course of population.
The productions of the country consist
of wheat, tobacco, Indian corn or maize,
rye, oats, potatoes, beans, peas, and in
Ihort, of every ai tide that the licll farm
ing lands are capable of producing. Hemp
rid flax are cultivated here, and yield large
quantities. '1 he land is rich in pailuragc
molt parts of it admirably adapted to
sheep ; and a heavy growth of timber, fit
for (hip-building, as" well as every other
purpose, is found here. There i 3, near
Cumberland, and within 10 or ?2 miles
of the river, a tract of country that a
bounds with very large white pine trees,
suitable for mills of (hips ; fomfe of thele
trees are from 5 to 6 feet in diameter, and
run up 100 feet without a branch.
Slate, marble, frec-ftone of the red and
grey Portland kind,and iron oie,are found
in abundance on the banks of the river.
Several large iron works are already esta
blished, which furnifh bar-iron and cafl
ings of an excellent quality. I/tmeftone
abounds every where. Of coal too, there
is an inexhaustible quantity, near Cumbei
land, laying on the banks of the river, &
in other parts at no great distance from it;
from whence in future, not only all the
towns and manufactories on the river may
be supplied, bat it may become a capital
article of exportation.
There is in the river a great plenty of
very fine filh. Large quantities of shad
and herrings are annnally taken here and
expoi ted to the Weft Indies-
From the preceding observations, it is
eafv to conceive that the commerce of
this river cannot be inconfiderabk : And
a iingle view of the frtuation upon which
the city of Wafliington is laid out, points
out that spot as the moll eligible on the
river, for a large commercial town.
The city of Washington lays in latitude
53'. —It is situated on the east fide
of* the Potomack, about four miles below
Kbenrzet h*rae t
J#»cob Canfftnan,
James Todd,
joieph Jonics,
Jntmhan Pcmofo,
Ceo' Meads',
John Pel of,
John M 4 Cree,
koWe>t u oifti>o,
TJiontas Annai,
George Williams,
Jan. i
ON THE
fates
[Whole No. 476.]
the Head of tide'w ater, and extends dtxy n
the river nearly four miles, to an angle,
wlncfi it formed bv the junction of th.
eastern branch with the Potomac!; ; li
then runs along the eastern branch for
more tban two milrt.—lts gcficra!" width
is about otie mile and three quarters.
f"he eastern branch affords one i>f the
fiirfit harbor* imaginable for ftips. It is
more than a mile wide at its tnouth, and
holds nearly the fame width fh- almost the
whole distance to which the city extends
upon it; it then narrows gradually to its
head, which is about ten miles from its
conflux with the Potumack.
nel of this branch lays cn the fide next the
city ; it has in al} parts of it, as far as the
c;ty extends, from twenty to twenty-five
feet of water. Above the city, it is only
navigable for small craft. The channel is
generally so near the city, that a whaif,
extended forty, or fifty feet from the bank,
will have water f*norigh for the largcfl fhijis
to come up and discharge or receivc their
cargoes. The hud on each fide o r die
branch is fufficiently high to secure (hip
ping from any wind tiiat blows ; and one
very important advantage which this
branch has, as a harbor, overall extensive
rivers which freeze and are liable to be
broken up fudd-rnly by frcfhfs or land
floods, is, that on account of the fliort
dillance to which it extends into the land,
no rapidity of current is ever occafionec!
by frefhes ; and, ye!THj in the main
river, if they {huuld happen to be caught
there by the ice, pre liable to receive great
injury, and are forhetifces totally loft by
it, those in the branch lay in perfciS fe
curity.—lt has also the advantage of being
open some days later in the winter r.nd
earlier in the spring than the main river at
Oeorge-Town, and the upper parts of
the city. The river generally (huts upa
bput Cbrrflmas. ai:d is open arain t!.e /
Imntjr? • ixjnigttfuvT. — 5 J .
interruptions by ice through the winte\
and sometimes it happens that it is nc®
closed so as to prevent the navigation: dur- <
tig the winter—this \n: th; cafe last win
:er.
The nmn channel of tue Potomack op
posite the city, running near the Virginia
shore, that part of the city which lavs up
on the Potomack has only a ftnall channel,
carrying from eight to twelve feet of wa
ter, until you come within about three
quarters of a mile of George-Town, when
the channel turning between Mafon's-Ifland'
and the city, gives a depth of water fromt *
twenty to thirty feet close in with the
shore of the city. This renders the water
lots within that small space very valuable ;
for any (hips that come up the river may
here lay within twenty yards of the city,
and the boasts which bring t'n« produce of
the country down the river, may at all
times come her*, deep loaded as they corns
down ; whereas they could not go, thus
loaded, down to the ealtern branch, unlefi
in very smooth weather.
Before a particular defcriptiop. of the
spot, &c. on which the city of Wafliing
ton is laid out, be given, it may not be
improper to note the conftiti-.tiorial and
legal Ground upon which the location of
the city is made.
The conttitution of the United States-,
grants to Congrefe the power " to extfrcife
exclusive legislation in all cases whitla
tver, over such dilb'ifit (not exceeding ten
miles square) as inay, by cefTtun of parti
cular States, and the acceptance of Con
gress, become rbe feat of the governrat~*
of the United States."
In conformity with this OTisftitutiprial
power, the following Ast was palled on
the 16th of July, 179 c.
" sfu Ail fur eflaklifhlng lb: Temporary and
Permanent Stat oj Goverimient vj the
Vtitled States.
" Section 1 ft.—BE it eiiafted by the
Senate and House of Representatives of
the United States of America m Catigreis
assembled, That a thrift of
not exceeding ten miles hjuarc, to be In
*
The chan-eated, *s hereafter directed, on tie river
Potomack, at fonie place between the
mouths of the eaftem branch and Cono
gocheque, be, and the fame is hereby ac
cepted for tiie permanent feat of the go
vernment us the United States: Provided
nevertVielefs, That the operations of the
law? of the states, within fach diftrift,
(hall not be affected by this acceptance,
until the time fixed for the removal of the
government thereto, and until Congress
(hall otherwise by law provide.
« —And be it further enacted,
*fhjt the President of the United States
%e authorized to appoint, and by supply
ing happening frefn refiifal to
ast, or other causes, to keep in appoint
ment, as long as may be neceflary, three
commissioners, who, or any two of whom,
fhallj under the direction of the President,
survey, and by proper metes and bounds,
define ahd liniit a diftrift of territory, un
der the limitations above-mentioned; and
the diftrift, fovdefined, limited and located,
(hall be deemed the- ■ diftrift accepted by
this ast for the permanent feat of the go
vernment of the United States.
" Sect. 3d And be it enacted, That
tlie said commiffionerß, of any two of them,
ftiali have power to purchase or, accept
such quantity of land, on the eaftem fide
of the said river, within the laid diftrift,
as the President (hall deem proper for the
use of the United States, and according to
such plans as the President (hall approve,
the said Commiflionersy or any two of
theiq, prior to-the firft Monday in
December, in the year.one thousand eight
hundred, provide fuitajjle buildings for the
accommodation of Congress, and of the
President, and for the Public Offices of the
Government of the United States.
Seftl 4th. And be it enacted, That for
defraying the expenee of such purchases
and buildings, the President of the Unit
ed States be authorised and requcfted to
accept grants of money.
" Sect. 5 th.—And be it enacted, That
prior to the firft Monday in December
next, all offices attached to the feat of the-
Government of the United States (hall be
removed to, and until the (aid firft Monday
in December, one thousand eight hundred,
shall remain at the city of Philadelphia, in
the state of Pennsylvania, at which place
the feflion of Congress next ensuing the
present (hall be held.
. . e^g^^e'd^e
Seat of the Government of the United
States (hall, by virtue of this a£t, be trant
ierred to the diftrifk and place aforefaid.
And all offices, attached to the, Seat of
Government, (hall accordingly be removed
thereto by their refpeftive holders, and
/hall, after the said day, cease to be exer
cised elsewhere; and that the necefTary
expencc of such removal (hall be defrayed
out of the duties on import; and tonnage,
of which a fufficient sum is hereby appro
priated."
£to be continued.]
.Legislature of Pennsylvania# '
Htufe of Representatives.
Tuesday, December 31.
Mil- Forreft. brought Jn a report on the
fubjeft of tliat part of the Governor's
communication, which relates to the o
pening roads in the diftridl of Southwark,
of Meyamenfing Towrifhip, with a reso
lution that a bill (hould be pailed.
Mr. Morgan reported' a bill from the
committee on the fubjedt of enlarging the
Jibrary of the commonwealth, which was
read the firft time and ordered that it be
taken up for a zd reading this day week.
Mr. Evans reported 011 the fubjeft of
intestate Eftgtes. •
Whereas by the Gxifting laws of this
commonwealth for fettling intestate's es
tates, the diftrihution thereof is unequal
and unjust, and made upon principles in
compatible with the spirit of the constitu
tion of this ftate—therefore
Refolyed, That a committee be appoint
ed to bring in a bill for amending the laws
of thia state relative to the fettling and
making distribution of intestate's estates,
so that the estate of any person within
this commonwealth, dying intestate, leav
ing lawful iflue, shall be equally divided a
mong such issue ; reserving to the widow
her full right of dower, according, to the
existing laws of this commonwealth. And
that the real estate of any person who is
arrived at the age of twenty-one years, and
(hall die intestate, üßmarried and without
issue, (hall be equally divided between the
surviving brothers »nd filters, or their re
preventatives. And that the personal ef
tate of afty perlon of, the Utter dekriptl
on, who leaves no. parents, ftallbe equally
divided between the fyrviving bp-others and
fitters, or their reprefcntatives
The report of a committee made yes
terday refpe&ing amendments to the con
stitution of the United States, was read a
2d time and made the order for next
Thursday week.
Mr. M organ called up" the petition of
a chamber contiguous to the Statt-Houfe
for a law library, it was read and ordered
to lie on-the table.
The house next proceeded to the order
<f[ the day, viz. the report of a cofrirtni
tee on the petition of Archibald Magrcvv,
praying that he may be enabled to fell the
estate of Thomas Bracken deceased, said
Magrew being the only fhrviving executor.
The report of the committee was in favor
of the petition, and recommends a law
may be pafled agreeably thereto.
The question being Hated by the Speak
er, " will the house agree to the report ?"
a debate ensued, and Mr. Kelly moved to
commit it to a special committee of three
members, to prepare and report a bill, pro
vided they (hall, upon due enquiry, judge
it necefiary.
It is stated by the petitioner, that he
is surviving executor of the last will and
testament of Thomas Bracken, late of the
county of York, deceased, who died pos
sessed of a tract of land of 130 acres, situ
ate in Manallen toWnship, in the said coun
ty, and by his said will devised the lame tof
his widow during the term of her natural
life ; and after his decease, authorises his
executors to fell and convey the said tract
of land, and to apply the monies arising
therefrom, to the uses in the said will ex
prelied ; and Hating, that one of the ex
ecutors in the said will named, is ftnee
deceased, and doubts having arisen- whe
ther, the petitioner is enabled in law to
make a good title to the purchases, -with
out the aid of the legislature ; therefaVe
praying that an ast may be pafled to ena
ble the petitioner to fell.
Mr. Swanwick moved a pollponment of
Mr. Kelly's motion for the purpose of
considering a substitute which he proposed,
viz. that a committee of three be appojjttv
ed to confuk with the attorney-general,
and provided he judges it proper and eflen
tial that the legislature ihould pass a law
in J&jwr Ql the petitioner, theo.-lte.gJy.
This motion was opposed by Mr. Kellr,
who did not think it confident with thfc
dig n 'ty of the houfc that they (houtd en
tirely depend upon the opinion of any one*
person, without exercising their own judg
ments. He stated some items of the will, j
of sums being left to sundry persons, which
were to be paid out of the faleof the lands,
but that the surviving executor was pre
vented from paying those.legacies until the
said lands could be fold, and that therefore
a law might be pafiedto enable him to fell,
not vvithftanding the general objection, that
all the executors of a will mull iojn in a
sale, &c.
_ Mr. Evans was in favor of Mr. Swan
wiek's motion. Mr. Morgan propoftd a
nother fubftitutc which came nearly up to
the idea of that offered by Mr.
This was to add two members to the com
mittee, who would be appointed to pre
pare a bill, and that they (hould be in
ftru&ed to consult the attorney-general,
( not to be altogether tied down to his opi
nion) and to report the bill if they judge
it proper.
Mr. Stokely quoted a law which autho
rizes a jury to explain the intention of a
testator in cases of difficulty, without trou
bling the legislature.
Mr. M'Lene seconded Mr. Morgan's
motion, which was adopted, and a com
mittee appointed.
From the London Morning Chronicle of
September 3,
fEAN P. BRISSOT, A SES COM-
METTANS, &q. Bvo. P. P. 128.
BRTSSOT to hi, CONSTITUENTS;
&c.
I PUBLIC curiosity must be in no small
degree interested about a pamphlet which
Mr. Burke has declared to be " one of
the mod able and rascally produ&ions
that ever appeared." There are only two
copies of it in England, and having pro
cured a reading of ope, we fubjom such
extra&s a* the Ihort time allowed for a
hasty perusal would permit us to make. It
appeared on the 23d of May, eight days
before the final defeat of the Giroadift
party of whom it may be <<oafidered as ths
concluding inaiiifctlo. it is writt«%wt!i
great fofrce of reason and eloquence. Its
ohjeft is to prove,that all the misfortunes
of the Republic are to be aicribed to the
anarchic faction at Paris.
He begin* with an avowal of some im
portance to the future historians of the re
volution.
" The whole truth, fays he, has ne
ver been spoken at any time since the com
mencement of the revolution ; we were
afraid by expressing it of injuring and dis
honouring the caule of liberty, of discou
raging the people, and of impeding the
progress of public bufmefi. This circum
fpedtion is right and £ven necessary. when
nations are to be saved by individuals or
bodies of men ; but it is deftruftive when
the nation alone can save herfelf. To dis
semble her situation, is to prolong her le
thargy, no great popular efforts can be
produced or well directed without inform*
ing the people of their situation Such
is our position, and such are the motives
which induce me to tear asunder the veil
that hides from us the source of our mif
fortunes."
He proceeds to establish three pofitiotis.
" i it. That the party of anarchists has
governed and does govern all the delibera
tions of the Convention, and all the ope
rations of the Executive Council.
" 2d. That that party has been and is
Hill the sole cause of all the evils, internal
and external, which afflict France.
" 3d. That the Republic cannot be
saved, without a rigorous measure which
shall refcuethe representatives of the peo
ple from the despotism of the faction."
He afterwards presents us with a des
cription of anarchy, contrasted with the
creed of the genuine republicans.
" I believe, fays he, that the people
will now regret the lethargic tranquillity
of its ancient servitude, if we do'not pro
cure it a republican tranquillity ; because
the people desire to be happy ; because
they mud desire it Hill more after such
great and continued facrifices ; becaule
their happiness doe* not consist in the eter
nal repetition of violent convulfiohs ; be
cause if ruffians live by sedition, the peo
ple live by repose. I believe that the ef
tablilhment of order is a truly revolution
ary measure ; because it strengthens the
revolution within ; because it furnilhes re
sources against our enemies without; and
rope. I believe this do&rine as salutary
to the non-proprietor as the proprietor, be
cause he can only subsist by constant labor
and there can be no cpnftaat labour for
the poor where there is no constant feeuri
ty for the lives and properties of the rich.
I believe that this doctrine of eternal in-
furred ion, #ill produce pillage and maf
kcre, which must difgull & fatigue the na
tion a* to a republican form of government
•—Such are the opinions of thofc coura
geous patriots, who have been devoted to
ignominy, and to the daggers of aflaflins, ~
by the names of Girondins, Rplandins,
Briflotins, &c." '
The majority of the Convention, are,
according to him, pure and uncorrupt, but
feeble and domineered over by a handful
-of an archills, who rule by terror. If they
unanimously agree to protest their inde
pendence by a departmental guard, if they
decree the punirtiment of death against the
instigators of murder, if they hear accu
sations against Roberfpierre, and order tlie
prosecution of the aflaflins of September,
they are speedily forced by the clamou-s
and the menaces of anarchists to revoke
all these salutary meafurea. Barrere, Le
and Danton, had all privately
declared their opinion for the appeal to
the people, in the cafe of the King. Dan
ton had repeatedly said.that theimprifon
ment of Louis was the only measure dic
tated by justice and policy ; and these very
men now direst the vengeance of the po
pulace against the Girondists for fupport
fng what they themselves had contended
fpr.
The following confeflion it so remarka
ble that we must recommend it to the no
tice of our readers :
• One word composes the greater part
of the history of the three afTemblies, and
that word is fear !'
A very able account follow* of the ad
drefa with which the anarchists governed
the neutral and independent party in the
Convention, sometimes by the terror of
their mobs, and sometimes by inspiring
them with jealousy of the Girondists. To
those who refufed to petition for the ex
pulsion of that party, the commune of
Pans refufed certificates of patriotism,
w hicti in the then- cifcutnAani.es, wev* <
fafCgudrds of life, By such means -was
prepared that revolution i)f the 31ft of
May, which Brftfot fecms clearly to have
forefsen, and which he justly compare* to
Col. Pride's Purge.
" A dreadful picture is prefenttfd of the
revolutionary tribunal, in which'a body of •
men, whom in defiance of common feofc
they called a jury (though it be perma
nent, and the accused has no right to chal
lenge,) deliver their fufFrages openly, un
der the. menaces of galleries filled with
hired ruffians.
" A tribunal, adapted indeed to make
us regret monarchy and her baftiles. A
tribunal in which two directors of the iflaC
{acres of the 2d of September, fit as judg
es J !_The triumphal acquittal of Marat,
does it not -prove that the Convention and
the tribunals are the instruments of afFafc
fins. That wretch, whose foul is made up
of filth and gore,
" Hamulus ex crutrt etlutO JiSus. v CrCi
" The Opprobrium ef the Revolution .
and of humanity." Two (Jays before his <
trial, RoufiUon one of his jurors, (aid in
the club of the Cordeliers,'" Fear nothing
for his head! They speak »f arreting hinr- r
1 invite you to poignard the man who
should dare to lay his sacrilegious hands
on the friend of the people to arrest hittL
Let the people fend us the Girondists, you
will fee who will preserve their heads on
theirfhoulders." •
The defpotifro ©f this anarchic fa&ion
was not less conspicuous over the Miniflero
than over the Convention- It appeared
in the horrible perfection of the virtuous
Roland ; it appeared in the tame and pu
sillanimous submission of Garat to men
whom he must detest ; 'it appeared in the
impunity with which Pache plundered the
treafureg and disorganized the armies, with
no other protection than his Jacobinism;
it appeared in the prote&ion given by the
fame faction to Monge* coavi&ed of the
moll scandalous incapacity and negligence
in the adminiftratign of the marine.
To the fame execrable faction ought in -
some raeSfure to be ascribed the defedion
of Dumourier. :
" I know," fays BrifTot, " his ambi*
.tion, his immorality, and his indifference
for liberty. Hq never ftneerely wished: a
Republic. He desired a mofrarchy-tem.
pered by democratic forms. That form
of srQvernment. hut .suits men whn join
great talents to violent pafifons. But I
will venture to fay that the calumny which
pursued cvei) the triumphs of Dumourier,
has precipitated his treachery, and by con
sequence our misfortunes."
The fame finftion has exercised it« des
potism over the departments by those exe
crable commissaries with which they have
deluged France.
: " Leonard Bourdon, one of them, pro
duces a tumult at Orleans, which until hit
arrival had, during the whole revolution,
been tranquil.
" He fills the prifom of that unfortu
nate city with his vi£Hmt, and when the
wives and children of the prisoners come to
him to expostulate, he compel* them at
the point of the bayonet, to dance and
drink, as if displaying lavage triumph, at
the miseries of their huftmnds and fetberx
A few are provoked to give this Bourdon
a drubbing. This if called the affaffins
tion of a deputy, and they have expiated
their offence on the fcaffold."
To the fame faction he ascribes the war
with Spain, England and Holland.
" Hofliiities with Austria were inevi
table; insult and injury had been too long
and too tamely endured from that power.
She meditated attack, and only waited a
favorable moment. It was the policy of
France not to permit her to chufe her own
time of attack, and France declared war.
" But the war with the maritime pow
ers may be ascribed to three causes : The
decree of fraternity of the 19th of Nov.
extorted from the Convention by the cla
mours of the anarchists ; the ufclefs and;
impolitic death of Louis, which afforded
to the. mi'uiftcr» cf. thqfe cyuutriei the
means of fanaticizing the people against
Fi-ance •, and the general horror against
the unpunished massacres of September.
" Of the lafi,Thomas Paine, in a work
about to be published, speaks thus ; " I
was in England at the massacres of Sep
tember. Before that fatal event the prin
ciples of the French Revolution had made
rapid progress; scarce had the news of
those massacres arrived, when a general
cnangc took place in the public mind
all the friends of France mourned ; ther
lhunned each other ; they dreaded the
melancholy of each other's afpeft; theyJhrurik from the' iafolent triumph o£ their
enemies, and from the exultation of arif
tocrgcy, difgiljfed by a maik of lamenta
tion and horror. Thus did all the princi
ples and'all the friends of the revolution
fuffei: from the wickedness of a' few indi
viduals. In vain was it fald that those
who fiiffered were guilty ;—it was an
fwertd that a prison was as sacred as an
altar, and that he who could violate a pri
son, is capable of betraying his country."
Thus far Thomas Paine.'
It was not enough for them, however,
thus to second the views of Pitt, and to
furjlifh him with the rrteans of alarming
and maddening the people of England .in
to a war. They mud do the fame service
to the Stadtholdtr, and to the aristocracy
of .iiollatird.
!' Cambon said to Abbem, (the Dutch
banker* a patriotic refugee at Paris) "You
have no church laiifk to c'onfifeate in Hol
land las w'e found in Flinders —when we
get to" Afflfterdam we must make a revo
lution of Portfolios!" Mull not such
language teach Holland, and was it not
wotth the Stadtholder an army ?
jThe war which their abfurditics and
crim«s provoked his is it 3 conchiift beer,
every- where p«tkied by their incapacity,
and the diftraftions which they have crra
ted.'
P A defencclefs frontier and a ■dilcon
tented people seemed to invite the inv.inon
of Spain ; her opulent and unarmed co
lonies prefented-an easy prey to our marine
—to Lo.iifiana which had been fold to the
SpaoKb eemrr-ivc ieemed tw ow conquest
as a- repartition ; -the Dutch colonies in In -
dia might-have been enabled to* throw off
the yoke of Holland; and on the Conti
nent, a powerful Prince, the MithridatCs
of India, vanquifted but not destroyed,
animatcdwith an implacable animosity to
the English name, needed only the ap
pearance of a French force, again to take
up'arms against the objects of his heredi
tary detestation.
" In Europe too there are circumstan
ces, of which statesmen of a daring and
comprchenfive genius might have improv
ed. The obstinate ignorance of jacobinism,
ruined against the rock of Sardinia, that
fleet under Truguet, which, if it had
appeared in tlie Archipelago, would have
emboldened the Porte again to arm against
Ruflia; to support Poland; to attempt
the re-c*ptare of the Crimea ; and would
thus have lighted a flame in the east of
Europe which all the efforts of our ene
mies would have been, scarce able to extin-
guifh.
" The Weft-India colonies of our ene
mies Would have been fnfficiently annoyed
by an improvement in the internal regimen
of our own islands."
This alludes, we presume, to the scheme
for emancipating and arrfling their (laves,
which wis-agitated about nine months ago.
" Sometime ago Bueot proposed a law,
that every deputy should give an account
of his fortune, and of the additions which
he had made to it during the constituent
Affe-mbly, the Legislative AfTembly, and
the Convention. Had such a law been
pafied, when it came to my turn I mud
have anfwe're^ —nothing. It is thus that
I would refute'the calumniator who called
me the ally of Pift.—An incorruptible
character, evidenced by this honorable po
verty?, is the only patrimony I (hall be
queath to my children. This proposition
of Buzot yas, however, evaded by the
Anarchils ; and indeed, such an enquiry
would have proved embarrafiing to them.
Fibre A'Eglantine, in tlie lowest state of
indigence before the maflacres of Septem
ber, how came he to acquire a larded es
tate of 12/300 livres a year, and how does
he support his hotel, his carriage and his
fervanta are the sudden for
tunes of Panis, of Sergent, and of so many
others of the afiafiinating commune of Pa
ris ? How (hall we account for the large
estates lately purchased in the name of the
father-ii.-law of Danton ?"
He concludes in these words,
« Anarchlfts, robbers, you may now
strike—l have done my duty, I have spok
en truths ufeful to my country, and they
will survive me!"
From the General' Admertipr.
WE in our last made mention of the
return of General Galbaud from Canada
to Nevt-York: He called upon the French
ConfuV in'that city for a parage to France,
and was ordered accordingly on board t!>e
Perdrix a'(loop of war about' to fail, mount
ing 20 guns. This he refufed under the
pretext that (he was leaky. The public
> 1 .. A*» ...
has feci One J»art of ths , coVrefpondence
between Gatbaud and HaUterive on .this
fubjeft, and aifo a letter from the former
to the Minifte'r here ; we, are enabled to .
lay before our readers the whole corres
pondence, which follows.
First mftoelr of the Cpnfcl to
Galbaud 13th December.
Sir,
1 will, this moment give you an ordf]
ior going on boaid the Perdrix,. Where th(
Republic will furnjlh you even' thing.ne
cefi'ury for your fuhfiftence. t\s to your
pafl'age, I will conjidcr on the me..'l 3of
Sending you tu-Fraocc in the manner rail
eonfonant to the weifareof liie Republic.
Sccond answer, 23d-DecetiiLei'. ■
The Confiil of the Republic requires
Galhauil to g>6 ahd f.t ior the
order of the civil authority, ai>ci 10 rid th£
confukte Motifs ct the outrageous pofle
with- '.vhieu he is attended*.
Thi ! answer New-York 2jth Dcccflaber
. i"O3, the 2d year of the-Frcncb - Re
public one ana indiv!f:b'e.
Hauterive to
Pußlifti your letter ~d diejuftifieation
of your rr.enacng viti* vim thitik , pro
per. Fublitlt all";).: "i r-'tctate to you
the order o£ ern : 'iori jii board the
Perdrix v.-Ksre t'u ,blic a(Tnres you
a subsistence yr ; itt /u jroaching depar
ture of the ver . .-hut' o» to carry you to
France,
c-'.on;
lie takes no on motives
as those you imput.' to me, nor
does be change hii determinations, thro'
SK3 dpty is to (end y#u to
Jfanoc, and ygurs to pay deference to the
direction or the authority .which tlje.Re
public has placed here.. Had,you always
followed this principle I ftiould not have
the trouble of a-.ifwering your infultiog
requifitiou.
caprice,
A copy.
Philadelphia 24th, Dec. 1793.
The 2d year of the French Republic.
The Miniftcr of the French Republic to.
Gilbnud.
Since the Englifhhave dilHained iq you,
a; in Duraouricr, ycur frknd aud patron,
the traitors wfaofe trcafan has leen oF lo
great advantage to them, the cotaful of
the Republic will appoint you a veijel on
board of which' you wJJI -be recelvwj and
condu&cd to France where yon wouW
have long fioce arrived, but for .your ab
fnrd reb«lion : , terminated by jrAu; dijlard
Philadelphia, 24th Dec. 1793.
The Minister to Conscience.
The Consul of the Republic will ap
point yon a vefiel, on board of which vovl
will be received as a acferter and carried
to Francei '
All the papers which you demand of
me, you will find in the hands of your
judges.
[7'be Letters of Guile ud, have already
appeared.'],
For the Gjzmtts of the United States,
Mr. Fenno,
Be pleased t6' republifh the following
very fmgular paragraph taken from your
paper of the 31ft of December, 1793,
with the accompanying remarks.
" A letter published in a morning pa
per from a member of Congrcfs, to some
merchant in Peterfburgh, Virginia, men
tions the agency of Great Britain in mak
ing the truce between Portugal and Al
giers. It is but justice to declare, that
fubfequeut information has been received
from higher authority than the one alluded
to, declaring that the truce was made
without the intervention of that nation,
&by the agency of a person who has had no
initru&ions from that power for a consider
able period, and whose appointment has
long been fuperceded."
The origin, design and tendency of this
qprnmunication being too obvious to i>o
miftahen, the writer of the letter feels
himfelf conltrained to observe, tlv? it
would It more than jiifticf to Great Britain',
and lefrlban jvftke to the United States,
to declare, thai subsequent information •' has
been received from higher authority, than
the one alluded to, declaring that the truce
I was made without the intervention cfthat
hation, and by HU -agency 6? a person,
who had no inftruftio.-is from that power
for a confi4erab}e-time> arid wfiofe appoint
ment lists long since been fuperceded."
Because he conceives fucli a declaration
'would bfc palpably untrue. T*he fubjequent
infarpiation, that is, the iirfdrmation bf the
latest dates, from the riioft authentic and
iliredV channel, confirifrs the -intelligenct
given in the letter to the merchants of
Peterftmrgh, and suggests further-, that
Qreat Britalh is the gukrantee for the due
perfortnaace of the truce, and had exerted
herfelf in Portugal to prevent that nation
from furnilhing a convoy to the defcnce
lass Apt'tican vefiels in her ports.
ft is iiicomprehenfible, that Great Bri
taia (hould- guarantee the tnice, without
foa* agency in making it, or at le'all with-,
out having an agent oh the spot to an
twcrfor the guarantee.
This Day the new.built Episcopal
Church entitled, CHRIST's CHURCH,
in Anri-ftreet, will be opened for the So
lemn Worihip of Almighty God: Pfay
ers to begin at ten o'clock.
:baud.
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 2.
Yesterday being New Year's Day-—
Members of both Houses of Gongrefr—
lipids of DepaiTftlfnts—Foreign Misif
ters—Members of the Society of the
Cincinnati—Officers of the Militia, Bcc.
waited on The President of the United
States, to offer him the Compliments of
the Season.
■~f. of Repub-
HAUTERIVE-
giTnet.
GENET.
Jan. 2d. i 794.
NEW-YORK, January i
We hear that nearly fifty fail of mer
chantmen, belonging to this city and the
Southward, which ought to ' have ar
rived from France in the qourfe of the hit
Autumn are yet absent; the eonje&ureis
that they are detained by an embargo.
There can ke Kttte doubt an the mind
ofiny unprejudiced citizen, taking into
consideration recent communications, bat
dot the United States would at this mo
ment, have been experiencing all the hor
rors of war, had not the Proclamation o{
neutrality been issued at the crisis at
it " v
'■ 4&f k Jt onde * t con i ratv^ate, i t ) ie no < ) ~
figmiif.{£»-£i>, upon their late acquisition of
Jhp*'nt the articles of liberty, republicanism,
fcjence and mbrals. He would rejoice too, in
the powerful, ittflacncial, anJpufiingfriends,
which their neutrality has acquired, if it were
_ not upon retard, " that thefriettdfhip of the
■zvo' Jdis nimilyagainjl Cod. He is, moreover,
-iipare, that the old flerj may be recollcSed
. upin the present ecatfon and appl'\.l to their
dfadvantage, that the fame daj Herod and
Pilate are mad; friends, when virtue was
to It crujhed in their nominal" master, who
probably, never saw a theatre in his lijt , tho's
he was- often in the temple and habitually en
gaged .in his miniflcrial duties.
With rif peel to the comparative morala
anjrejpefla(iifity of those clergy, who have
fgntd the petition againfl vice and immoral
ity, or those who have noti he has only to re
marl ; thai " much may befaid on both fides."
He w'tjhes, however, to abferve to Euri
pides, and some other puffing cvrrefpondents ;
thai upon a certain occajion during the war,
when some 'important quejlion divided the
northern ami southern members of Congress,
Dpt tf the loiter, exultingly observed to the
prcfent Judge P—rs, then e Delagate from
Pennsylvania, that after dinner * they would
" count noses" with their antagonifls ; on
which Mr. P— very readily answered, I
fuppnfe so, my friend ; but I e.xpeß you mean
red noses. At D- A.
J *.
* This was in days of yore, when Con
greft fat tarly and late ; held fffi ons the
afternoon and did lufmefs for nothing.
. _ .
$y~'The Stockholders in the Bank of
the iTnited States, residing in the'city of
Philadelphia, and its neighbourhood, are
requefled to meet at -the City-Tavern,
this evening, at 6 o'clock, on business re
lative to'tjie ensiling election for Directors.
January 2.
. PRICE OF STOCKS.
Ph iLAftEi,PHiA, 2, 1794-
6 per cSntfi, 1 ~ifg to I,o</.-
5 ditto, . 9/jo to 1 of.
Deferred, 10/9 to 101!.
U. S. Bank, ' . 10 per cent, advance'.
N. A. ditto, 20 ditto ditto.
Pennsylvania do. 5 ditto ditto.
f v.
sewn fcstfr tiarolma t -#■* a#
lifiei. fetftttek titcir fsMW /
; $e*eri|l peufSon> Wetr read Snd rt&fred.'
Mn Chdi, aftA" fw.e iirtto<i»t£toiy ob*
ftfnsttipa*, Irtovrd tb« tW «wte foic dcf
rng tb« doors bf the gafler«S 'duri«fr4(u-
futiim difcufTion of the A%er»iife btmhefe
' fhquld bt; jepvufidered.
IV Spfl*k<>< e bferv<dj tM a&efcjr*
;ta.«W nd» tim jte%.
fhajM be defeated wftH the Aaow ®K"
,"Wl?rettpbd, the galjery wag *
Two Hundred ArWmifertienti that
Atlas could not carry 011 his back !—Why
this is as bad iSTriy Uncle, Trim, \vh j ha»
two hundred pair of (hoes, while pilgarljc
is alrtiofl StMi Soulier's.
Died at St. Kitts, of the yellow fever,
Mr. John Wilcocks, fan Of Alexandsi
Wileocka, Efq; of this Cityj
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at NEW-YORK.
Sehr. Betsey, Bartlet, Ncwburu N. C.
Sloop Hebe, Ricker, Jeremii
Randolph, Baldwin, Richmond
From the Nciv-'London Marine Lift.
Armed, Sloop Mate/, F. King, froiiti
Ait* Gayes, last from 3 1 days
paffagc ; left, at Jamaiea, Sdioorier Flora
of Philadelphia, which V.aS carried into
Jamaica, veflcl and cargo condemned
Brig Sophia, Price, efcrgo (ondemned ; —
Sloop Farmer; Wimlenhall. oT Wilming
ton, N. Carolina, CaJjt. Runnels, of do.
cargoes condemned-Brig Pow
ers, N. York}' Brig———; Cbace, Sloop
■ , EHiot, ' Philadelphia ; brig Echo,
Nicols; Rachd, Sayefy New±York, car
goes libelled.—The foilowiiYg is a lift of
the Americans, who fold to the Commifll-
I anew hi Aux-Cay* aud are rret a'Se to
obtain thflr pay ; —Capt. Wright j' oT Vii -
gir»ia;. fold property to' tht ataonnt of
2,300 collars, has not receiving one far
thing, hot )ias te any profpeft of it;
Capt. Ivwy of ; , Phih*cte?piiia 1 .f0i4 pLjbc
amount dollars, ft ill dne, 375b
dollars, 4nd- demurSgc to about Boco li
vre» he cannot receive; Capt. Elliot fold
to the amount of 3000 dollars, has received
1500 arid has noianyprefpeft of receiv ing
arty more -, Capt. Simferi, of Salem,- fold
to' the arfiount of 3750 dollars, there is
still due to him 3600 dollars which he ne
ver expects to receive ; Capt. Sliaph' fold (
his cargo to the eornmiffioners and is in the
larae situation:
Capt.' K'ng left at Aux Cayes, Capt.
Eli (ha Hiuman, of this place, hearty and
well. All American v«fieb now jn Jamai
ca, wWch are not already condemned,' must
wait until next March' for trial;
Arrived, brig Catherine, J. Star, in 44
days from jerfcmie; left fit Jeremie, sloop
' ' , Biker, of New-York, to fai'l in 12
days; sloop -, Dolby of Philadelphia j
do. sloop Farmer, J. WiUiarr.S v 19 days
paifaga from St/Euilatia ; left at St. Eu
(iatia, Capt. Ala Benton, do; White,
of New-Haverr.
Schoonet J6lin, Thos. Dingley, master
from Demarara, bound to Boston, detains,
ed by she fiiip FaVorite of Dominica, on'
fu'fpicion of having French property, on
bcia'rd ; the fdroonier sent to Bt. Euftatia,
the captain, pecj'Je passengers, on
board the (hip, among whom is Captain
Davidfon of Bollon, Dec. 5.
Excellent CLARET,
lf\ hrgfWcadi and, in cafe* Of 50 boitlci bfght
I * 9, ; . •. '•> ;\ •
A few cases .Ghampaigiie Wine f
MADEIRA)
Jrn pipc», bOgltujads and cask?, -
fO"R SALF. BY
k _ JOJ&I
No.' in, Suutfc'From-iiffcti
aEWffi-
N Q'% J CEi
BEING Mvr<rt% doling virions ommer-
Cid l cOn'ccro'.. . us tlwi. ..lV'poWtf rs liefejo
loiC grac ed iel-j:ivc i.> :f\ fame ihould be le-Z
v<sk*d, affd pub lid Tto'.ice'of it g vert',' to prevent
my p u>le ; I, the futiici iber, <ioL£ic
by make known to «il whocrl it ir>«y
that all powcui ami !rtf.ejr*ot aviornev, o( <fvery •
natUic and c&en».' granted by- uic toYny' p?rfon .
or pWfoiis,' , pri<V to I'Kc lU'day <o! to
for trie or in my name in Amer r c a', arc rev
yoked and made vo d.
J AM EST CREFNI.ftAF.
aiw
Ncw-Yoik, Jan. r, 1794'.
t
VJust Imported,
Frcm London, Dublin antlGiksaoir',
A> <1 now opening for <a|p, by
MATHEW CAREY,
sil A r o. 118, Market Jlrect,
A Ln roe and' Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Remitter for j 79a
European Magazine tor the fir ft fix
months of I 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the RomanFrffipire
Memoirs of the Mancbelter society, 3 vois.
PriePdy on matter and spirit
on christianity
Difhey's lite of Dr. Jortin
D Anville's ancient geography
Memoirs of Guy Jfcli
Variety, a collection of e flays
King of Prulfiff's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
ftuffelt'i aiTcient and mode, n Europe
T-anghorne's Plutarch
Elejant extract's, gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Brifljn's voyage
Ruction's voyage to Madagafc&r
Townfend's travels in Spain
Tajfifo's Jerusalem delivered
Sinellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
H'ftory of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations *
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
V/hitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan'* dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
linlay's d&fcription of Kentucky
Pre fen t state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on phyfiognoiiiy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
JVTurphy's li/e of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kisses of Secundum
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Travels*
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Beningfon on materialifrfi arid immaterialifni
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on pol ticaljuftice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's /ketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playboufe dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoule's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. & IHd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
WanJey's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wall*! on the prevention ofdifeafes
Moore's journal in France
tJox's travels into Denmark, Ruflia, Poland, &:c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pradlice of mid
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innqs on the mufcies
Pott'is works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the aftlima
Kobertfon's treatise on fevers
L?es botany,
Leake on the viscera
"Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewises Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering; on rhe fox glove
Limt on the diseases of heat
JVTonro on diseases of armies
Halier's physiology
Spalanzine's diflertations
London pra&ice of physic
'Bill's fnrgery
Cfjaytal's chemistry.
GC/* 'Terms of Subfcr'tption for this
Gsv.ette, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of persons
ivho reftde at a diflance from the city, to be
twelve tiionths in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Ad c j:ertifements ofnne fqnare, or less, in
fer ted four times for One Dollar—once,for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty-
Cents each- —ihofe cf greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line y and Subscrip
tions, will be grai fully received at the Office
in South Four ihjl rest-, five doors north of the
Indian Queen.
A New Publication.
—«
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be Ibid by
R. A IT KEN,
iVo. 22, Market Jlreet,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME"
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philad?lphia, for promoting Ufcful
Knowledge, Vol. 3- Pike %of in boards
(J~?T The subscribers are requested to call
as above dire&ed for the 3d vol. where may
be had, complete setts uniformly printed.
Contents of VoL 3</.
1. An eiTayon tliofe enquiries in Natural Wii
lofophy, which at present aremoft benefici
al to the United States of North America.
Dr. Nicholas Collin,
2. Conjectures concerning the formation of
the earth, &c. Dr. B. Franklin.
3. Anew and curious theory of Light and
Heat. Dr. B. Franklin.
4- Defcript'on of the process to be observed
in making large fheetsof paper in the Clii
nefe manner, with one smooth furface.
Dr. B. Frank I ih.
5. Queries and conjectures relative to Mag
netism, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
6. Explanation of a fmgular phenomenon, firft
observed by Dr. Franklin, and not fatisfac-
tori]y accounted for. Mr. R. Pattcrjon.
7. An account of an Earthy Substance found
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls ; together with
some remarks on the Falls.
Robert M'CavJin, M. D.
8. Observations on the probabilities of the
duration of Human Lift, and the progrcls
of population, in the United States of Ame
rica. Willi*9 flarton, T.fq.
9- A letter containing observations made at
Lake Erie, on that Angular phenomenon,
by (camen termed looming.
Andrew E/licot EJt).
10. An Account of the Sugar Maple-Tree
of the United States, and of the methods
of obtaining Sugar from it, together with
obfertations upon the advantages both pub
lic and private of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rii/h, M.D.
it. Memoir on the use of the Thermometer
in difcoveiing Banks, Soundings, &c.
Jonathan William, Esq.
12. An Aceotfrft of the most effectual means
of preventing the deleterious coufequences
of the bite of the Crotalus Horridtis, or Rat
tle Snake. Benjamin Smith B*rten i 'M. 1).
13. Magnetic Observations, made at the Uni
versity of Cambridge, (Maflachufetts.J
Dr. S. Willia.ms.
14. Accurate determination of the right as
cension and declination of Bootes, a/id the
Pole Star. Andrea.- EVUott, Iff
1 J. Account of several Houfesin Philadelphia,
struck with Lightnir»», on June 7th, 1789.
Du\j>d Rutenhoufe, EJq.
16. An Account of the effects of a Itroke of
Lightning on a Houle furni/hed with two
Conductors. David Rittenhovf;, and Francis
Hopkinfon, Efqrs.
17- Experiments and Observations on Evapo
ration in cold Air. C. Wijlar, M. D.
18. Postscript to Mr. Barton's Letter, to
Dr. Rittenhoufe, of the 17, ofMarch, i ? 9t.
>9. New Notation of Music.
Alr. R. PatU'fon.
20. Observations on the Theery of Wate»r
Mills uc. W. Waring.
19. Agronomical Observations.
David Rittenhonfe.
20. A letter relative to a method of finding
the sum of the leveraj powers «f the Sines,
& c * David Rittenhoufc, tfa.
21. Index Florae Lancaftrienfis.
Henrico Muh/enterg, A. />.
22.- Investigation of the power of Dr. Bar
ker s Mill, as improved by James R'u'Aifey,
with a description of the mill. W. Waring.
23. A Thermometrical Journal of the tem
perature of the Atmosphere and Sea, on a
voyage to and from Oporto, with explana
tory observations thereon.
Jonathan Williams, Eftj.
24. Fi r st memoir of observations on the plants
denominated Cryptogamick.
A/. De Beauvois.
25. A letter, containing observations on she
ancient works of Art, the Native Inhabi
tants, See. of the Western Country.
Major Jonathan Heart.
26. An account of some of the principal dies
employed by the North American Indians.
Extra&ed by the late Mr. Hugh Martin.
27. An account of the beneficial effe&s of the
Cassia Chamaecrifta in recruiting worn-out
lands, and in enriching such as are natural
ly poor; together with a botanical descrip
tion of the plant.
jf.imei Green way of Virginia.
28. An account of a hill on the borders of
North Carolina, fnppofed to haye been a
volcano, in a letter from a Continental of-
ficer, to Dr. J. Grcenway y Virginia.
29. An Account of a poisonous plant, grbw
ing spontaneously in the southern part of
Virginia. Extra&ed from a paper by
Dr. "James Grccmva\ y Virginia.
30. Defcriptiou of a Machine for measuring a
ship's way. Francis Hophinfvn, Ffq.
31. An Inquiry into the question, whether the
Apis Mellifica, or true Honey-Bee, is a na
tive of America- Benjamin Smith Barton^M.D.
32. An Account of a Comer.
David Rittcnhtufe,
33* Cadmus or a Treatifeon the Elements of
Written Language, ilhiftratinp, by a Pbilo
fophical division o{ Speech, the power of
each chara<ster, thereby mutually fixing; the
Orthography and Orthoepy. With an Rlfay
on the mode of teaching the Deaf, or Surd
anil.cnnfgqueutty fruiyb, to fpealc, by Wrri.
Thornton, M. D. Honored with the M'«*-
gelhwic Gold Medal* by rhe Philosophical
hi December, 1792 —N. B.
Cadmus is printed in a fine 8. vol. and Cold
by the Publilher hereof.
34. Obffervations on the Theory of Watei 4 -
Mills. W. Wtritig.
3J- An Improvement on Metalic Conductors
or Lightning rods. Mr, Robert Patterpn.
Honored with the Magellanic Premium, by
an Award of the Society in December 1792.
36. An easy and expeditious method of dis
sipating the noxious Vapour commonly
found in Well* and other subterraneous
places. Ebcncztr Robinfon y Bfej.
37* A method of draining Ponds in level
J# Higiins
-38. Observations on the fcverity of the win
grounds.
ter, 1779, 1780. Rev* Matthew Wiljon.
39. A Description of a new Standard for
Weights and Measures; »o a letter from
Mr. John Cooke, of Tipperary in Ireland.
40, Description of a Spring-Block, designed
to a/fill a VefTel in failing* Fravcis Hopkm-
Jon, Esq. Honored with the Magellanic
Gold Medal, by an Award of the Society
in December 1790,
December 20.
ACOLLECTION OF
Valuable BOOKS,
In sundry Languages, and on various Subjects,
Consisting chiefly of the mod receut,
correct, and elegant
LONDON EDITIONS,
Neatly bound and lettered.
Alio, a variety of
Stationary,
FOR S X-* * Y
JOHN ORxt RO D,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet.
December 13. 3t
ALL persons having any demand agaii.ft
the Estate and Effcfts of Mrs. M ARY
SINDIIEY, widow, late of Frankford, Ox
ford townlhip, in the State of
deceased; are desired to produce their ac
counts to Jacob Lesher and "William Creed,
(in Frankford, aforefaid,) Executors and Ad
ministrators of the above in order for feitle
ment. And whoever is indebted to laid Imi
tate, &c. are requested to make payment to
the aforefaid Administrator?, on or before the
16th of March, 1794, or they will be dealt
with according to l»*r.
Frankford, Dec. 16.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE op
STOCKS on COMMISSION, brgs | e a*e lo D f_
frr hvs ferviccslo his friends and others, 111 the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may drprnd
upon having it tranfa&ed with the uimoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
father part of the United Stare*., -will be flri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEfcCKKR.
ADVERTISEMENT
New-Jersey, >T> Y virtu? of aWiitto mr
Sussex County, if. J -D dire&ed, issued out «f
the High Court of Chancery of New-Jcrfev, at
the suit of William Shipley againlt John Ming
and others; I shall expose to sale at Public Ven
due, on the sixth day of February next, bit ween
the hours of Twelve and Five in the Afternoon
of the fame day, on the Premises, the following
described Tra& of Land, with its appurtenances,
situate in the Township of Oxford and County
of Sussex, beginning at a Chcfnnt Oak Tree, cor
ner of Danul Cox's land, and Handing in the
line of a former fuivey made to Thomns Stcven
fon, Wring marked with the letter B. and then: e
extending along Coxe's line (firft) louth fifty de
grees weft fifty-fit# chairs and feventy-five links
to a Black Oak Treecorner of Joseph Shippers
land (second) south nine degrees and fifteen mi
nutes, weft ninety chains and sixty five links
a foiked White Oak. Tier, marked with the let
ters R and B another of the said Shippen's cor
ners (third) thence north eighty degrees, east one
hundred and forty-five chains, to a port on the
southerly fide of Paquaoftc-Ktver, being alf© a
corner of John Reading's land (fourth) thence
north thirty-nine degrees weft, one hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place of beginning,
containing nine hundred and thirty acres witfi
the usual allowance for roads and high ways—
The fame Premises are within eight miles of the
River Delaware, and there is thereon a conveni
ent Grift Mill with two pair of Stone*—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fuffceient ftrcam of
water for then ufc—a Dwelling Hotife, Store
House, and fcveral small buildings.
MARK THOMPSON, Sheriff.
Dated 22d day of July, 1793.
To be Sold,
AT P B IV AT E SALE,
A Valuable Lot of 16
Acres of I.AND, lying on the grc.it roati lead
ing from Princeton to Tienton, i £ miles from
Princeton; with a tail-yard, bark-houfc, beam,
house and currying-fhop, a never failing ftieim
of water running through the fatre ; a good
dwelltng-boufe, with an entry ai»d two monij
on the lower floor, and three on the upper floor;
a kitchcn adjoining, with a cellar under the
whole, and a well of water at tile door ; also,
170 bearing apple-trees, and two or three atrrei
of wan ted meadow. There will be*a« inriif
putahle title given- Any peifon inclining to
putchafc, rnav know the terms of lale by ap
plying to the Subscriber on the prcmifes.
MATTHEW GLAXKF,
September 14, 1793. («l'4^j
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHES,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookseller, ?.t the Stooe House, in Stcand
ftreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Ot A ts, Sciences, and Mifcellaneons
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
Br WHICH
The Different Sciences and Art?,
are digejled into the form of
DiftintS Treaties or Sjftems :
THIS volume contains principles of Level?;
Liberty, Doctrine of Light, Lightnjnj.;,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
don, Longitude, Luther, Lydla, Macedoti,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, Hil
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Shadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, lllilllrated with Twi»-
tv two Copperpiatis.
As a number of families are still in t&e
country, and it it not generally known who
arereturned. T. D.jbfon, solicits tlie ikvur
of the subscribers to call or lend for thpir vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as tarty as
poffiMe.
eod2w.
The rtMTH TOLUK* of the Encyclopedia'.ii
now prefentfcd to the public; but as it makes
its appearance in an imperfect state, some ac
count of the reason of that iinperfe&ion should
be given. On the Bth of September last, tlie
Publi(her had the misfortune of having his
Printing-office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the figuiej, with
which he was printing the Ta»lis or lo
garithms, belonging to the present volume,
were melted down by th# violence nf Hi* firr.
As a supply of these could uot be immediately
obtained, he was under tlie necefllty of pub
lifliing the volume without tlie'e TAsits; but
Itopes he ftiall Ik able to publish them with the
next volume which is n»w in conirrterable for
wardnel's.
The Pithlifher embraces this opportunity of
exprefiing his grateful acknowledgments to
th® generous public, lor the very liberal pa
rronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to foch of the fubfci iben
as are in arrears, the indiipenfiblf neceffi-y of
punctuality, both in taking up tl,g \olumes as
early as pollible after publicatibn, aiid of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the ftth
fcribers having got only one, two, th; ee, &c.
volumes, and leveral volumes remainvKPnip.
Thus the work hangs in all its different ftagc*
from the commencement; and though the im
portance nf a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles vwmd lays th« Publiflier ttndet
very serious finbarrafimeor, «hd deprives bint
of the ule of many ThoKlandsof Dollars which
at this time would be of very efleotial service.
For these realoiis the Publllhtr finds hitnfetf
under the necessity of recurring to the or! jitial
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will he delivered but onlv to those wit*
take and pay to the time of publication,
Dcrember u.
t&rtf
Philadelphia, Nov. si, 1793.
The Stockholders of the
BANK of .he UNITED STATES, are fccitby
informed, that according to the (Utuieol incor
poration, a General Eie3ion for Twenty-five
Direflors, will be held at the Bank of the Uni
ted Siates, in the Citv of Philadelphia, on Mon
day the 6th of January iient, ut ten o'clock in
the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh ft&ion of the
hye-laws, the Stockholders of the fa 1 d B*nk, aie
hereby notified, to aHTeta-hlc in general meeting,
at the fame place, on Tuefrlay the 7th day of
January next, at five o'clock in th<; evening.
By Order,
SECOND Fundamenta) Aiticlc—Not more
than three-fourths of the pireftors 111 oHlcr, ex
clusive of ine Picfidcnt, rfull be eligible for the
next fucceeduig year : Hut the Divettor, who
fhal/ be Prtfidcnt at thjc time of an eletiion, may
alw a>s be rc-elefted.
At a meeting of the Dircftors of the Infurence
Company of Norih America, Nov. 25, 1793.
Rcfohcd %
THAT no transfer of dork be made on the
_booki«l this office between the is'h day
of June and the (irft Monday in Ju!y, arrd be
tween the th day of December arid Ihe firft
Monday ©f January followiug, in each year.
Exutt from the minutes,
Ebrnfzkr Hazard, Secretary.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was laiely printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
December 16.
Oj" Gentlemen, in p'.fjeffion of Sulfcription
papers for this Gazette, are requefkd to
trar.fmit them to the Editor's Office.
TT7
PIIN.
PRIXTFI? I V J(
UN FENNO, No. j,
■Sotnii Fourth-Street.
■2S\vtlJ
JOHN' KEAN, Caftrier.
mw&f to 6 jan.
Enquire of the EDtTOP.
lELPHIA