df tfjt IfittiteD
EVENING ADVE
[No. 42 of Vol. V.]
Jufi piibl'tflu'dt
THR
United States Register,
For the Year 1794.
Containing *
A CALENDAR, with iI»P necefTarv tables
■«fjL fvted tor the U:uudeof the principal towns
in the Untied States; fnuanon, extent, population
•od GOVERNMENT U.S.
Supreme Executive,
LEGISLATURE,
]VD 1CIA RY,
Lift of Councilors admitted to pra£life in
• heSooreme Court.
!>•> of A"omies, Do.
Jxecctive Branches,
Dipaktmint of ST ATI,
Mmfters »nd Consuls of the United States
i»i foreran nations.
D«>. of foreign nations resident in ibe
(Tutted Stale*.
Department or the Treasury,
Piinc and Clerks of the rifpettive of
fices,
C*»mmiflioners of Loans,
©tficeis of the Culkoms, with their refpec
tivediftricls and ports,
Officers ot the Excifc, with their refpe£tive
diUndsand survey.-,
Lift ol dutiable articles, See.
Abftraft from the revenue laws,
Statement of the public debt,
— —»■ —of L'ght-houfes,
of appropriations for the support
ot Government.
DstAItTIIEMT Or W.\ R ,
Secretary's oflice,
Accountant's,
Monthly pay, &c. of the army.
Mint Establishment,
Officers,
Abftraft from the laws relating to coinage.
fOST OfFlCft EiTABLISHMINT,
Officers,
Abftr»a fsorrt the law cllnbliftiing the officr
Lift of post towns, with ihnr refpcflive
dift«mtc» as rftablifhed by the Poli-Mdf
ttr General.
L4.titd.bk and Lokgitudi of the prin
cipal (own* in the United Siatc» And their
vicinity.
Bakes,
Uorted States,
North America,
State banks with their capitals. >
Literary Institutions.
American Philosophical So:iety, See.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
National Manufactory at Paterfon,
N.J.
SrssioNi of the Courts of the United
States.
WISTBfcN TtRHTORY,
Stats Gov&rnmehis.
Abftraft from the conflitution of each {Vote
Puucipal officer** executive, legislative and
judiciary.
Militia,
Officers of the Banks, capitals, dates of in
corporation, periods ot limitation, ex
tent of properly, &c.
Universities, Colleges and Academies,
Societies, (ciennfic, humane, political &c
Exhibiting in as general and comprchenfive a
view as poflible the internal police, the (late
of literature, arts, commerce, and fociuy,in
the feveial ft?rrs.
Price 50 cents.
Printed by Stewart and Cochran, No. 34,
South Second flrcet, and John M'Culloch, No.
1, norrh Third ftreei, and fold by them and
the bookfcllcrs. Jan. 27. d6i
Sixty Cents Reward.
RAN AWAY from oil board the Biig Polly,
laying at Marcus-Hook Piers, on Sunday
the 19th inft. an Apprentice Lad, named JOHN
COLI.INGS ; 14 years ol age, about 4 feet to
inches high, a little pitted with the small-pox,
had on vvhen he went away, a red round-about
j.icket, blue trowfers, a round fur hat, black
handkerchief, new (hoes with square plated
buckles. Whoever apprehends the said I.ad, so
that his matter may get him again, (hall be en
titled 10 the above rcwa-d.
Captain WILLIAM PAUL,
Northern Liberties.
20. B. AllMaftrriof veffrls are forbid carry
ing him off, or any person harboring laid hoy,
11 they may exped to be dealt with according to
law.
Jan. 55.
NO R R I S-C OU RT,
Back flf the New Library, between Ckefnut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the biifinefs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
for doors or window-(hutters,doni n the moll
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders front the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
Thursday, January 30, 1794.
LONDON, Nov. 14.
As a consolation for the opening profpctfl
of another campaign, the last nieflTengcr is said
to brfng aflurances of the full co-operation of
the Empress of Ruflia by sea and land.
To tbofe who judge of the future from the
P3ft, these aiTuiances will furnifli but little
consolation. The fleets of Ruflla were c«r
tainlv not neceflTary to the campaign offubju
gation which the Empress with so much honor
to her (elf, has waged 11 Poland* and yet their
efforts were direftcd only to a summer cruize
in fiie Baltic.
O > iq-Vi 1 de Gourges, who offered to dffcrd
the King o: Fiance «>n his trial, W*S caliednpok'
not many mouths after,to dfj'nd htrjrlf % which u
is said 01- d-d in a manner that aft-inihed eve
ry one that hca'd her.
The Corunna mail which arr*v«don Wednes
day has brought intelligence of the m< II d< • d
ttil nature from the p oviuce « f Roufiilon: the
convention in order to stop the progrefj of the
Spaniards in the neighbourhood of Perpignan,
ord red that the tremendous Guillotine ihon.d
be carricd to every tity,bor<>u h and village of
the ount' yto an immense extent. T.hi French
co npeiled 'very inhabitant from th age of 14
to 60, under pain ofdr th, to join th' R< pub
lican array ; killing luch as tfefu/Vd to fci ve,
and, horrible to t« 1 , 500 heads of families, rc
fufing to bear aims, were put to death at Per.
pignan !!! The Spaniards apprehending thos
most dreadful consequences from foch bai bari J'
ans, were qbhg'd to u treat; and when the
Uft advices came away, they were at only four
leagues distance from their own frontiers.
FRANCE.
National Convention, Now. 4*
Barrere laid,that the committee of public wel
fare was pieparing a report relative to what
eofued after the sfh «»fO<sfrober near Laval, on
the representatives of the people, on the gener
als, and on the fulpictous patnotifm of the in
habitants of that town, which was become the
centre t( a new Vendee.
St Just and la Bass write from the army of
the Rhine, that they are busy in clearing the
corps of officers of improper per ions ; that the
number of patriots among them is very incon
siderable; and that a previous measure of this
nature would iiave sAved the lines of Weifiem
bourg. They further obfefve, that they have
received a trumpet from the enemy, by which
they sent the f ;)lowing answer: " The French
Republic receives nothing fiom its enemies;
nor fends them any thing but lead bullets."
Barrere read two letters from Strasbourg,
from St. Ju(t arid La Uafr, requiring the Con
vention to approve different resolutions which
they have taken, and from which they expert
the happiest effects.
The iubltance of these letters is, that St. Just
and La Bass have resolved.
1 That every military man who (hould be
found hid in any part of that town, (hall be
iuftantly shot.
* That the municipality of Stralbourg (hall
(upply a certain quantify ol (hoes lor the de
fenders of their country, and such of the in
habitants as will not aflift in this particular,
{hall be considered as bad citizens, and be fi
ned.
3. That a loan of two millions (hall be cal
led for from the rich, to supply the wants of
the poor, and to repair their fortifications.
4- That there (hall be instituted a commilfi
on tor the better fupp lying the city with pro-
visions.
5. That Adminiftratnrt not obeying the re
quififidns made by the agents of government,
fhallbe impnfoned 'till the end of the war.
The Convention confirmed these resolutions.
On the motion of Catnille Definouftus, the
Convention decreed, " that the late law con
cerning foreigners, (hall not extend to Phyfi-
cians.
AnaWfis of a report of Barrere, refpe&ing a
defceat upon England, appointment of ge
nerals, &rc. &:c.
Barrere —Doppet is to have the chief com
mand o( the army of the Eastern Pyrennees;
Cartaux, that of the Alps ; Duconner with the
army in Italy, is principally charged with the
siege of Toulon. The nine Representatives
with the Armies of the Rhine and Mo
selle, are reduced to four ; tbefe two armies!
are forthwith to be united to execute the com
bined movement.
The Commiflioners in the Department of
Lower Seine,have taken excellent resolutions
to supply with combustibles, the troops who
have already begun the neceflary movements,
for an Expedition against England : but they
complain of the want of meaut of securing to
themselves, supplies of provisions. I propose
that you pass to the order of the day, groun
ded upon the law which grants them unlimited
powers, with regard to }he right of requisiti
on and the seizure of piovillous.
Sunday, 0&. 27.
The discussion on some of the articles of the
civil code, which had been adjourned, was re
sumed. One of them, which gave women a
right to manage, in common with their hul
bands, their common property, was fuppoi ied
by Lecointre Puyraveaux, and decreed, to the
great fatisfo&ion of ttye female citizens in the
galleries.
AND
Read in the House of Reprcfentatiiu cj the
United States the IJth infant
United States, January 15, 1794.
Gentlemen of the Semite,
and of the House of Representatives,
I lay before you, as being conne&ed with
the correspOndence, already in your
pofleffion, between the Secretary of
State, and t lie Minijler Plenipotentiary
of the French Republic, the copy of a
letter from that Mini Iter, of the 25th
December, 1793 ; and a copy of the
proceedings of the Lcgiflature of South
Carolina.
THE Committee, to whom was re
ferred the bufisefs of examining into
and ascertaining the 'ruth of a report,
that an armed force is now levying with
in this State, by persons under foreign
authority, without the permiffiort and
Contiary to the expiefs prohibition of the
Government of the United States, and
of this State—
REPORT—That they have made di
ligent inquiry refpe&ing the truth of this
report, and have collcflcd such evidence
relating thereto, as was immediately
within their reach :—
That your committee are perfeSly fa
tisfied, from the information they have
received, that William Tate, Jacob R.
Brown, William Uiby, Robert Tate,
Richard Speke, citizens of this Hate,
and other persona unknown to your com
mittee, also citizens of this state, have
received and accepted military commifii
ons from Mr. Genet, Miniftef Plenipo
tentiary from the Republic of France,to
the United States of America, authori
sing them, and inftruitions requiring
them, to raise, organize, train and con
duit troops within the United States of
America.
That the avowed purpose for which
these troops are now raising, is to ren
dezvous in the State of Georgia, and
from thence ta proceeed into the Spanilh
dominions, with a view to conquefl, or
plunder, as their strength might enable,
and opportunity tempt them :
That in the event of a French fleet
approaching the Southern States, a junc
tion and co operation with if, is contem
plated by the persons above named
but, that although this was the avowed
object of these troops and their leaders,
among themselves.the injun£lion to con
ceal the whole fyltem, from persons not
initiated, and the subordination establish
ed to Mr. Genet, the author of the
plan and the fciurce of authority to the
officers; it is probable, that the corps,
when raised, mull yield to any change of
deftinatron, which the judgment or in
clination of Mr. Genet may point out to
them :
That several of the persons above na
med, ieeeived together with their com
miflions, inllruftionb, by which they
were to regulate their enrollments of
men, the pay, rations, cloathing, plun
der, and diviiion of conquered land to
be allotted the officers and men, who
ftiould enter into this fervice,and marking
the proportion of acquisitions to be re
served to the Republic of France :
That the persons above named, in pur
fuanccof the poweis veiled in them by
the said com millions, and in obedience
to the inftruftionsrof Mr. Genet, and
his Agents, particularly Mr. Mangourit,
the consul of France,refiding in Chailcf
ton, who signed some of the papers,
have proceeded by themfelvcs a<id by
their agents, without any authority frutn
the United States, or this Hate, to en
roll numbers of the citizens of this (late,
whom they deluded with the hopes of
plunder, and the acquisition of tichts,
in the fetviceof th? Republic of Fiance,
to be fubjeft to the orders of Mr. Ge
net, the Minister Plenipotentiary of
France t
That Stephen Drayton and John
Hamilton, aifo citizens of this Itatc,
RTI S E
G. Washington
[Whole No. 500.^
have made applications to the good citi
zens of this state »o engage fn the scheme
of raiting men in this llate, for the fefvicd
of France, to under the orders of Ms.
Genet, and to commit a&s of hoftilii.y
again ft nations ai peace with the United
States of Ame i ica, and have avowed,*
that they ast by the authority of Mr.
Genet the Minilfer Plenipotentiary of the
Republic of France :
1 hat upon the whole of the informa
tion which your committee are able to
obtain, this is a faring and dangerotis
attempt by a foreign Alirniter, to inter
meddle in theaff«irs of the United States,
to ufiirp the powers of government, and
to levy troops in the bosom of the Union,
without the authority and contrary to the
express sense of the government of the
United States, and in violation of the
laws of nations
I hat the direct tendency of tfrefe mea
sures of the foreign Miniiier, is to ditf urb
the internal tranquility of the United
States, to involve them in hostilities with
nations with whom they are now at peace,
which found policy and good faith requite
fiiould .be prefer ved :
i hat in the opinion of your committee,
this attempt is the mor£ alarming, as ma
ny citizens of the United States have been
thereby fed Deed from their duty, by in
fidiousarts pra&ifed on their kindred af
fection for the French Republic, and
have been drawn into a fchemt, in the
execution of which they have ufurpea
the mn&ions of government, and exer
cile the power of the sword, whidi the
wisdom of the Conftitun'ou hf.rh exclu
fjvely vtfted in the Congufsaod President
of the United States :—
1 hat this committee therefore recom
mend that the Governot of this ft ast cr be
rcqtiefted to iffne his Proclamation, for
bidding all pcifons frofti enrolling any of
the citizens of this state, and prohibiting
the citizens from cnlifting" under any of
ficer, or for any purpofts not previously
fan&ioned by the government of the U
nited States, or of Chia state and also for
bidding all unlawful aflemblagtp of troops
unauthorised by government ; and that
the governor be requeued to txert the
whole public force to the utmost extentj
it necessary, to ensure obcdience to hi)#
Proclamation:—
That in the opinion of this committee
the o»id Wm. Tate, J. R. Brown, Ro.
Bert Tate, Stephen Drayton, John Ham
ilton, Richard Speke, and WHliani Ui
by, have been guilty of high crimes and
misdemeanors, and they recommend that
the Attorney and Solicitor General- be
directed to inflitute, and cause to be in.
(lituted and coodu&ed, prosecutions in
the proper courts of law, againll the a
bovenientiodcd persons', for accepting or
engaging to accept cammifiions front a
foreign power to raise troops within the
United States, and for going about
within this (tare levying or attempting to
levy troops, and for fedocing and at
tempting to seduce the citizens of this
state to enroll themselves in foreign ser
vice to commit ails of holtiiity againlt
nations with whom tire United States are
at peace, without the permifiion of tie
government, and contrary to the Procla
mation of tlic Prefideiu of the United
States, declaring these IHres to be in a
(late of neutrality ami peace :—
That copies of the evidence collected
by this committee,together with the pro.'
ceeditigs of thishoufe thereon,beforwa:d
ed immediately to the PrcGdent of the
United States, and ro the executives of
Georgia and North Carolina.
Houfc of Reprrfentatives Columbia, 9.
On motion, refolvrd unartimonflv,
That thishoufe do agree to the furcgoiijr
report. Ordered, That the report ai d
Tcfolntion be fetil to the Senate.
J. S. DART, Clerk
SEN/ITE, Dtccmßer 10, 1703
Ori motion, refolded uriariinxu.fly,
That thin liuitfc conctii with iht Huuic
R.of Rrpte&otativei in the foiegoing re
port and rcfolutioni.
F. WARLEY, Cleik
A Trut Copy, and zubiclt / Attijl,
J. $. Dart, C. H. R.
[Herefollowi a number of Affidavits .J
Philadelphia, 2j?h December, 1793;
2d year of the French Republic,
one and indivisible.
The Citizen Genet, ATtniJler Plenipotentia
ry from the Republic of Fr.tnee to the
On'ted States, to Air. 'JeJferfon, Sec reia
ry of State of the United Stales.
Sir,
I LEAfi.N by the reports of theCon
ful of the Republic, at Charleflon, and
by the public papers, that the legislature
of South-Carolina, had caused to be ar
reted, different persons, accused of hav
ing received from me commiflions for the
jmrpolc of levying an armed force in that
.State, for che service of the Republic.—
Conceiving that such conduit, if it were
true, would offend the sovereignty of the
American people, 1 haflen to atHim, to
you, fir, that 1 have not autliorized in
any manner, the recruiting, the forma
tion or the collecting of an armed force,
or of any corps in the territory of tie Uni
trl States; but at the fame time, lam t.OO
trank to difgtlife from you, that, authori
zed by the French natiim, to deliver com
miflion® to those of your fellow-citizens,
who (hould feel themlelves animated with
a desire of serving the best of causes, I
h->vf granted them to several republicans
ot South-Carolina, whose intention ap
peared to me to be to expatriate them
selves, and to go among the independent
Indian tribes, ancient friends and allies of
France, in order to retaliate, if they could,
in concert with tis, on the Spaniards and
Engliflt, the injury which the government
of these two nations had the baseness, for
fjme time to commit on your fellow-citi
>cns, under she mme of these favnges, in
like manner, as f» lately done tinder that
of the Alcxrines.
T •
I notify you, fir, that I (hall publifn
this declaration, in order to calm inquie
tudes, and to difilpate the doubts to which
the denunciation made in the legislature
of Carolina, might »rve rife.
Accept mv refoedt,
. GENET.
CONGRESS
Hcife of Rcprefentalivts.
January 20.
In committee of the whole on Mr. Madtfon's
rfjjlui'ior.s.
Mr. Lee's speech continued.
Mr. Chairman, while I agree with my
colleague, that tiie 6rft eflays from which
our conftitutiou arose had relation only to
i.>ur trade; he «ill, lam lure, acknow
ledge that this was not the only object for
which the grand Convention met, he will
acknowledge that this is not the principal
ob -.el contemplate! by the constitution :
The power ot regulating commerce is an
inferior power veiled with much more im
portant powers in the Congress of the U
nittd States. Bat, fir, I need not make
a companion between the various powers
of Congress. What does this fovercign ast
of the people declare to be ■ their intenti
on f I need only-repeat their words—
" We the People of the United States, in
order to form a more perftd Union, ejlab.
TJb juflice, insure dsmeflic tranquility,
provide for the common defence, promote
the general welfare, and secure the blef
fmgs of liberty to ourselves and our pnjie
rity, do ordain and ejlahlijb this Constitu
tion for tin United Siates of America."
In these words we fee the sovereignty
of the people exercised on one of those oc
casions which I have before stated in form
ing a government, and we hear the pur
port for which they formed it. It does
not fay that it was formed to regulate our
commerce. The people had more impor
tant objects in view. I do not think there
fore that so much ftrefa ought to be laid
on this idea, as gentlemen have been in
clirved to bellow on it.
But, having been induced, to go back
fa the period which give birth to our coa
ftitution I Ihall be excused, if befoerl re
turn to the prcfent fubjeA, I-tafct* mriew
of the then exifiing circwafta*cc*«f the
United States. We had thea a anctn
ment contemned abroad, and ddpi&d at
home, incapable of commanding the ref
pefl of. foreign nations or the obedience
of oar oWn cititvns. Its credit m fe«nt
abroad and athonie. Debts were accti
mulating in Europe and in America. Our
commerce was alinolt annihilated, our a
gricuhure languilhed, paper tenders ex
iited in loine (lates, the tics of confidence
between man and man, and confcquentlv
the ties of morality were broken asunder ;
nay, inimicities between the dates began
to prevail instead of fraternal concord.
Slich was the lituation of the United States
and to remedy tbcfe evils was the conftitu
tio:> made. Has it not produced the in
tended effects? That it has, I need only
appeal to the feelings of every fellow citi
zen who hears me. I (hould therefore un
necaflki ily take up the time of the com
mittee in enumerating the various blessings
which it has (liowrrcd on our country : I
will only mention the stimulus which our
agriculture has received. In travelling
through the various parts of the United
States, I find fields, a few years ago waste
and uncultivated, filled with inhabitants,
and covered with harvests; new habitati
ons reared, contentment in every face,
plenty on every board, confidence is res
tored, and every man is fafe under his own
vine and his own fig tree, and. there is
none to make him afraid. To produce
this effett, was the intention of the con
stitution, and not solely to regulate our
trade, and it has fncceeded. But I feel
mytelf wandering from the fubjeft.
The committee will readily perceive
that I have been led into my last observa
tions, because, gentlemen have afligned as
an important teafon in support of the re
solutions, that the constitution had been
principally framed with a view to this ob
ject. I think I have (hewn that too much
importance has been given to this idea.
I think my colleague also observed,
that if the measures he had now proposed
were not adopted at this time, after a new
election, and a full representation of our
fellow citizens, he would despair of ever
feeing them succeed ; and I think he as
signed this reason, and it gave me pain
when he uttered it, that the fubjefts of
Britain, in confequenre of the interest they
had in our trade, and in our pecuniaiy in
stitutions, would acquire a predominant
influence over our public councils. This
idea was more fully dilated upon by a gen
tleman from Pennsylvania (Mr. Findlcy).
The danger of this influence seemed to be
the principal reason, why he wiflted to
lessen our commercial intereourfe with Bri
tain. The gentlemen perhaps did not per
ceive the full extent of this observation.
It wounds deeply, in my opinion, the re
publican principle, and I am sure neither
of them intended to do this. It goes to
deny the competency of the people to go
vern themselves. It goes to assert that we
are better judges of the future exigencies
of the society, than those who will live
after us. The people on former occasions
have been found possessed of virtue and
knowledge equal to the preservation of
their liberties and interests ; what right
have we to fay, that hereafter they will
be less wife and less virtuous ? Let me a
gain recur to former expetience. At the
commencement of our struggle with Bri
tain, they certainly had all the commerci
al influence over us, which the monopoly
of our trade could give; what did it a
mount to, it neither damped our courage
nor checked our unanimity, and why sup
pose less virtue in our citizens, now that
we have become free, and enjoy the fruits
of order and good government, than when
we existed in the colonial dependence.
The fame gentleman from Pennsylvania
and another of my colleagues (Mr. Ni
cholas) expatiated largely on the mifchiefs
of credit. My colleagne, however, very
jullly and frankly acknowledged, that it
was questionable how far government had
a right to interfere in the pecuniary con
cerns of individuals.
But whatever may be the mifchiefs of
credit, I do not think they will be pre
vented, by sumptuary laws, or la wi which
may be calculated to operate that way,and
I doubt the consistency of such laws with
civil liberty. There is only one remedy
which occurs to me, it is a proper ad mi
ni (bat ion of jullice between man and man
—Establish this; compel every individu
al to pay his debts j when this is done the
society will have no reason to limit his cx
pences, or to apprehend rvil from his ex
ample ; but this important part of social
police belongs peculiarly to the Hate go
vernments ; they have the only effectual
means of preventing the mifchiefs of cre
dit and preferring the purity of morals.
Congress have rot the power of changing
the municipal regulations or the juridical
eflablilhmentsof the refpeclive dates.
It has not been afiertecf that our trea
tie* of commerce have produced us any
advantages as yet. Our principal and
mod beneficial intercourfc, it has been
proved, is with those nations with which
we have no treaties. Our treaty with
France, has in the course of the laftyear
operated to our injury in a twofold de
gree.
The asylum given to French privateers
in our ports, has covered our coails with
them,and has therefore prevented the (hips
belonging to nations which are moll ac
customed to trade with us, and buying
our surplus produce, notwithstanding the
prodigious demand for part of it in Eu
rope. I believe that in the state of Vir
ginia, this perhaps combined with other
causes, has produced an iftonilhing de
pression of the price of our tobacco and
grain. In Europe, the only advantage
which we had in return for these injuries,
we have been deprived of ; the treaty has
there been violated by France, but every
American will readily acknowledge, very
properly violated, when he considers the
necefiity and imperious circ.imftances of
the cafe.
Gentlemen have said we ought to pass
these resolutions to express our gratitude
f<?r services formerly rendered to us by
the French nation ; as to the virtues of
generofitv and gratitude, they are God
like attributes, they belong I believe,more
to Heaven than to earth, they are rarely
seen among, individual men, and more
rarely felt by nations, and it has been ac
knowledged, I think in the National con
vention ltfelf, that the afliftance we receiv
ed was rendered, not so much for our
fakes, as to weaken a dangerous and pow
erful rival.
But gentlemen have said, tho'we may
not have derived any peculiar commercial
advantages as yet from our intercourse
with France, that we have every reason to
expect the greatest advantages hereafter,
from the fraternal regardexprefied bv ( their
present government to us, and the simili
tude of its principles to ours.
If theFiench nation feels this friendly
disposition towards us,and 1 verily believe
they do, because they fay they do, our
constitution has provided the means, by
veiling adequate powers in the President
and Senate, of meeting them on the
ground of a new treaty, and I rely with
fullconfidence on this fubjeft, on the wis
dom and patriotism of the constitutional
authority.
< But, Sir, Ido not think tlie gentlemen
spoke accurately, when they mentioned
the similitude of the principles of the pre
fer. t French conftitutian to ours. But sup-
I posing the resemblance existed, which I
I shall presently (hew does not, have we anv
■ reason to conclude from the past history
' of nations, that such a resemblance ne
cefTarily begets friendfhip and cordialitv :
history exhibits the fact differently :
Witness the wars between Carthage
and Rome, the jealousies and wars be
tween the different republics of Greece ;
witness our own experience, the inimici
ties which began to arise between the states
previous to the adoption of the present go
vernment, and the difficulty of produc
ing that adoption. The truth is, nations
in their intcrcourfe with one another, re-
gard nothing but their interest ; hence
the alliance so frequent between common-
wealths and monarchies, more frequent
than between commonwealths themselves.
But as peculiar emphasis is laid on the
similitude of the principles of the French
government to the principles of ours, I
will take the liberty of applying the prin
cipal traits of their government to our si
tuation.
Their republic is one and indivifible,our
republic confiftj of sovereign states having
extensive and important local jurifdiftions
and a diversity of laws and interests
Does our republic then referable that of
France in this leading feature. Consoli
dation these states have ever deemed fatal
to their liberties and happiness, and he
would be deemed a traitor to his countrv,
who (hoidd propose to render our republic
one and indivisible.
So jealous aie the dates on this head,
that they have generally demanded an al
teration in that part of the constitution
which fubjefts them to suits in the courts
of the United States, and the senate has
already sent forour consideration an a
mendment to that effeil; the French ex
ecutive is plural, their leg-illative is single.
This idea is counter to the practice of al
most all the states ; and to the division of
powers in our constitution: Will any gen
tleman fay that such a form of govern-
meat ij fuitedto our ideas and our circutn
llances ?
Ircvery part of the United States in a
(ltuation to extend the idea of equality as
far is it has been carried in France : I be
lieve no gentleman will fay it the con
flagrations, the desolations, and the bloo
dy scenes of St. Domingo, might also
then be exhibited on our peaceful and hap
py plains.
(To be Continued.)
Foreign Intelligence.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
November 7.
NATIONAL DOMAINS.
Chochan, in the name of the Commit
tees of War and Domains, procured the
adoption of the following Decrees on the
mode of payment to be made, according
to the nature of the provisions, by the
farmers of the National Domains :—
I. From the day of the publication of
the present "decree, no leases of national
property, producing wheat,rye, hay.straw,
or any kind of vegetables, shall be renew
ed without the insertion of a clause, pro
viding for the payment in provisions.
11. If the property confifo of wine,
oil, liquors, &c. the payments fha'l be
made partly in money, and partly in pro
visions, which are mentioned in the firft
article.
i 11. The preceding article! are appli
cable to farmers, the price of whose lea
ses, previously to the present law, (hall
have been ftipnkted to be payable in mo-
IV. That this decree m?.y be more rea
dily carried into execution, every farmer
of national property, lhall declare, with
in ten days from the publication of this
decree, the nature of the property he
rents, to the diftr:& within which he
lives.
V. In cafe of omitting- to make such
declaration or of a fraudulent one being
made, the property to be confifcated.
VI. AH provisions deposited in the na
tional warehouses, (hall be at the difpafal
of the Minders at War, who are to ac
count to the Convention for the manner
in which they (hall be disposed of.
[A great number of other articles sol-
low.}
Gregorie read a speech relative ta the
eftablifnment of honfes of rural cenomy,
for the inftruftion of agriculturists and the
promotion of agriculture ; the discussion
of which was adjourned, and the speech
ordered to be printed.
A deputation of the public funfticna
ries of the diftri£t of Belle)', in the de
partment of Ain, were admitted to the
bar. They represented, that on account
of having supported the interests of the
Republic, they were exposed to the ri
gours of a resolution entered into at Dole,
distant 45 leagues from Bcllev, by the re
presentative Proft, relative to the denun
ciation of persons discovered to be con
cerned in the different robberies which had
been committed in the diftricft during
the sale of the effects of the emigrants. '
Merlin—lt is my duty to inform the
Convention, that the greater part of the
facts dated at the bar by the petitioners,
is ftrittly true; no perfon6 are better
qualiticd to give a just account than Amar
and myfelf, for, during the period of our
million to this liiTtrict, we discovered the
infamous manner in which the sales of the
effects of the emigrants were carried on.
At that zra we could only discover one
guilty person, Vetard Piot, the Procurer
Syndic who has been mentioned. We
put him in arrest, and ordered him to be
carried before the criminal tribunal of his
department. This was done. In the
drawing up of the indictment against him,
other criminal persons were discovered,
and fevcral measures were confeqnently a
dopted. The guilty person immediately
fled to Dole,to deceive our colleagueProft.
They deceived him, I am certain, for
they induced him to grant an at reft which
ordered all those persons wl>o had been of
fer vice in this important bulinefs, to be re
moved from the functions and to be arrett
ed—l can aflure the Convention that se
veral of rhefe persons are the mod warm
Patriots of the Diibidl, particularly l y tr~
fit and Lcbatje.—lt is proper that Virtue
and Patriotism (hou:d triumph in all
of the Republic :
" I therefore move, that the Conven
tion fhourd decree, suspend the exe- *cotton of the arret iflued by our collczgue,
feftore the arrested persons to their func
tion, and further fend the petition to the
Committee of General Safety." Decreed.
Gauthier moved, " That all persons im
jprifoned by order of the Revolotionary
Committee, newly organized at Bclley,
should be liberated, except Nobles and per
forms cotorioufly fufpedtcd." Decreed,
unarrmoully.
The Popular Society of Mennecy, in
the Diftridt of Corbenil, offered all the
Ornaments of their Church, and declared
that they did not want any Curate. They
wished that the Parsonage-house fhoilld
be Sold, and that the Church (hould be
converted into a placc of Aflembly for
the Popular Society, in which the busts
of Marat and Lepelletier should be fublti
tuted for the statues of Si. Peter and St.
Dennis. The Convention pasTed to the
order of the day on this report.
A deputation from the Popular Socie
ties of Versailles, was admitted to the bar
—The members compoling this deputa
tion, were drefled in pontifical robes.—
They informed the Convention that the
Bishop of the Department of Seine and
Oife, was dead. " Will you Legislators,
fuffer his Bishopric to be filled ? Will you
who have dellroyed a Throne, preserve the
Canopy—will you cherish thecrozier? The
Citizen and theLegiflator, fhonld acknow
ledge no other Worship, but of Liberty
—.-no other Altars but those of the Re
public—no other Pritfts but Magiilr&tes.
—Legislators ! imitate the Jews—-defend
from the mountain, break the golden calL
to pieces, and let the Ark of the Consti
tution be the only Idol of the French."—
Ordered to be inserted in the Bulletin.
Situation of Nantes.
Members of the Commune of Nantes,
presented the following address to the
Convention :
" We would fain be the MeflTengers of
good news—but perfidious Admiftrators
have done every thing to dellroy Liberty
and the People, in these diftri<?.3. The
successors of these Administrators, found '
neither grain nor any provisions to nourish
the laborious and indigent class of citizens.
" Several persons sent to procure pro
visions could not obtain any, on account
of the large supplies sent to the armies.—
Without doubt, the armies must be fup
plicd, but the poor of Nantes ought also
to be prevent**! from starving.
" We throw ourselves upon your pa
ternal juttice, which will not fuffer you to
forfake your children."
• The petition was sent to the committee
of fubiiftence, which was ordered to pre
sent an immediate report on the fubjeft. t
November 8.
Fouche, of Nantes wrote
Nevers, Nov. 3.
" I had nothing but pleasure to gather
for you in the department of La Nievre.
—You have imposed on me more painful
labors at Ville Affranchie, (Lyons) but
1 accept this million with courage, con
scious that if I have no longer the fame
bodily ilrength, my heart at lead retains
all its fornaer energies.
" The offerings on the altar of the
country still continue to abound at Nerves.
I fonvard to you a fourth collection of
gold and silver, amounting to several mil
lions.—The contempt for fuperfluities_ is
such here, that those who poflefs them,
consider themselves as worthy of reproba
tion.
" The admiration of republican customs,
and austere habits,has penetrated every foul
since the people are no longer corrupted by
the priests: some of these impostors are still
desirous of playing their religious farces,
tut the Sans Culottes watch them, over
throw all their stage tricks, and erect on
their ruins the immortal tree of liberty.
(Signed)
" FOUCHE."
LONDON.
CORRESPONDENCE
BETWEEN THE
PRINCE OF SAXE COBOURG AND
GKNERAL JOURDAN.
Letterfrom General Jourdan, Genetal in Chief of
the army of the A'orth and Ardennes t to Genu a!
Cobourg, dated OBobet 30.
**■ 1 am full/ informed, that it has been re
ported in the Army which you command, that
all the French who may fall into the hands of
your S >ldiers are to be inaffacied. lal o know
that t lis a<ft nf barbarity and cruelty, of which
History fumi flies no example, has been com
mitted upon lome dilmounted Chaireurs, who
were made prisoners in the rencontrne —
which lately took place in the village ofMon
tigny.—l write for an explanation ot' the
manner in which yon mean to carry on the
War. Until the present momon', we have ie
lpej&ed tl»e on fortunate who have fallen into
our hands; we Have given them meat and
drink when they had occasion for them ; they
have even been fumifhed with money to pro
cure rhemfelves f'uch thmgs as were neieilary
for them. This cotduft on our part ought
to make us hope for the lame from you > how
ever, we are convinced of the contrary To
complete our horror, our pi ifoners are obliged
toferveiu the Legion ot the Emigrants, in
those paracidal Troop# whose very name tills
us with horror, I will add no more, Gener
al ;and wait with impatience your answer,
that limy regu'ate my future conduit by it-
ANSWER.
He/J Quarte'f, Frida\ y A'ov> t, '703.
u Although you fay, that you are pert'e&ly
informed of that which you have ndvanced in
your Letter, there is not the lead foundation
for the imputation. So far from ordering the
massacre of all the French whom the chance
of War, has made fall into our hands, there is
a ftand.ng order to treat ihem with humanity
and kind-iefs from the moment th«*y were pri
soners. However r:*.(h and unbecoming may
be your manner of judging of our
and of acquainting us of it, we have not wait
ed for your remonstrance, far less for your
example to learn what we owe t < prifomrs.
and the unfortunate. In ipite of the 1 igid and
positive orders which have been given to our
soldiers on this head, it is polT:ble, that in the
heat of battle, they may have given place to
those sentiments of revenge and indignation
which the lajl atuocities conrritted /.• brar.ee have
produced in their minds—However, a very
recent example proves, that y« ur imputation,
affirmed so positive ly, is entirely void of foun
dation. The day before yelterday, we took
2000 Prifor.ers at Marchiennes. They are. al|
alive, and under the sacred p«"otedtion of the
Laws of War and our Loyalty.
44 We have, in all about 25,000 French Pri
soners in our ; they aie paid, not in
paper, which would not produce the half of
th cir pay, but ill lilver ; they are well fed ; we
w'll give them up when exchanged. We have
not kept them near a year after the term in
whieh, by the mod solemn Cartels and agree
ments, they were to have been exchanped.—»
We do not oblige them to serve in the Emi
grant Legions; if they are admitted into them,
it is by a voluntary enlistment, in which we
use no influence, as we have before us a strik
ing and odious examp'e ot* the injufticc and
danger of preding Soldiers into the fervice.^—
44 Above all, Sir, learn to know us, and par
ticularly how you ought to write to a generous
enemy, bravery of the General of an
Army ought not to conllft in the terms of a let
ter. However, lam too much above such pro
ceedings, and such language, to be offended at
44 I wrote, some time ago, to the Command
er in Chief of the French Army, to request him
to inform me, if the Lieutenant Colonel, of
the Regiment of Cobourg's Dragoons, who
was wounded and taken prisoner on the i6ih
< f O&ober, was yet alive, wbe r e he was, or if
he was dead of Ins wounds. Such information
is never refuted •' in all limilar cases, I have
given and received it ; but on this occafioh,
I could get no answer. I agam repeaUoyau,
Sir, the fame demand.
(Signed) " PRINCE COBOURG."
UNITED STATES.
BOSTON, January 18th, 1794-
The Treasurer's report on the fubjeft
of the debt of the Commonwealth, refer
red to him at the June Session, was read
in the house of Reprcfentatives, at the
close of this day, and committed. The
report was lengthy, and we are not able
to furni(h such an abflraft of it, as we
could wi(h. It appears that the debt of
the Commonwealth, unprovided for, with
the arrears of interest, to the ift of July
next, will amount to I. 6.
The report contemplates a loan to be
opened at 5 per cent interest, to be paid
half yearly. The annual interest on the
balances due from the United States, the
annual dividend from the subscription to the
Union Bank, and the annual interest on
money loaned to the United States, will
amount to £.22,251. 8. 3. leaving only
£. 12,236. 11. 9. to be raised by an ex
cise or a tax on polls and eftafes to pay
the interest on the propol'ed loan ; the
money due for the eastern and western
lands which have been fold, and the inter
est of the debt, which may be from time
to time redeemed, it is proposed to vest in
the hands of commissioners for the pur
chase of the debt. Supposing the debt
to be purchased at 18/. on the pound, so
much will be redeemed by the year 1801,
that the interest annually due from the
United States, and the Commonwealth's
dividend in the flock of the Union Bank
will then without the aid of a tax, pay the
interest on the residue of the debt and
leave a surplus of jf.3369. 2. o. annually.
We congratulate the public upon this
pleasing exhibition of our finances, which
appears to be well founded ; and when it
is considered, that a tax of two (hillings
on the poll will at this time raifethe dtficit
236. 11. 9. stated above, and
also raise a sum fuflicient to defray the an
nual expences of Government,the creditors
of the Commonwealth, we trust, may now
promise themselves that jullice will be ren
dered to their claims.
ALBANY, Jan. 9.
The inhabitants of ScheneCiady (fays
a correspondent) are at length riiiug into
a spirit of enterprise, by beginning to fee
and feel the advantages of their command
ing and pleasant lituation. Witness
within a few weeks, they have eltablifhed
a museum or more properly a chamber
for social intercourse, where they propose
to receive the public papers from every
part of the union—this will tend to wear
off the rough edge cf that unsociability
which has thus farchara£teri/.ed Schenec
tady ; Besides which they are about throw
ing a bridge over the Mohawk opposite
the town—and they have also appointed
a committee to confer with the leading
characters in this placc on the fubjeft of
eftabhlhing by law two diflinck roads be
tween the two places, each one to be de
fignatcd for all persons travelling the fame
way.—Within a few months at the fame
place they have eftabliflied a poll office
and a daily (tage which plies regularly to
this city.
NEW-BRUNSWICK, Jan. 16.
On Sunday last Capt. Sedam marched
from this place for Albany, with a party
of recruits. Enfitrn Voorhees remains at
the Barracks in this place for the purpole
of recruiting.
NEW-YORK, Jan. 28.
In the Log Book of the Hunter, Capt
Hackcr, we find under the head of Nov,
18th, the following :
At day break we saw to the eastward a
French fleet which soon gave us chafe,
came near us, and sent a tender on board,
and examined our papers ; at which time,
the Enghfh fleet hove in fight at leeward ;
they were superior in number to the
French. Whether an engagement took
place or not, they were not able to tell—
but Capt. Hacker informs, that he since
heard that some of the English {hips (those
which were the best failcrs) pursued the
French, and came up with them, when an
engagement ensued, which terminated in
favor of the English The French had
an Engli{h brig in poficfiion which they
had captured.
For the Gazette of the United States,
WHEREAS ttie Government of the
U. S. from which the people were led to
expect great and manifold blcffings, hath
now been nearly five years in operation—
and whereas the public expectation hath
been entirely disappointed and defeated in
respect to said government—by the conti
nuance of anarchy, confufion and discord,
among the people—by the prostration of
the public credit, and the decline and con
tra&ion of commerce—the discouragement
of agriculture, the depression of mechanic
arts—the reduction of the value of {hips,
houses, lands, cattle, lumber, grain and
other produce of the farming interefl—by
the stagnation of domestic intercourse,
particularly the embarraflments on the
coasting trade—by the deftru&ion of mu
tual confidence between man and man—
by the apathy and indifference which hath
seized on all the enterprizing faculties of
our citizens, manifefted in a total derelic
tion of all plans for the improvement of
our roadi, and facilitating by bridges and
canals, internal communications—by ' the
total defection of all the tried patriots of
the U. S. from those principles which ac
tuated them " in the times that tried mens*
' fouls"—by placing the administration of
public affairs in the hands of men, who,
tho' they have braved death in every form
to secure the liberties and independence
of the U. S. are now loft to every feufe of
the blessings they fought and conquered
to obtain : and from being patriots, are
transformed to parricides. • Therefore, for
remedy of all these, i>id many other evils
seen, felt and groanrd under from Geor
gia to New-Hampshire—be it known, that
one general and universal change ought to
take placc—revolution is the word—Re
volve, revolve and revolve,till all the pleas
ing, comforting, heart-confolingand exhi
lerating delights of capsizing, topfy-turvv
ing, undermining, disjointing and over
throwing all the fyftims, principles and
practices of this wretched country, are
fully realized and enjoyed—Until
Those who are in,
No longer (hall grin ;
And those who are out,
No longer (hall pout.
PHILADELPHIA,
From 4 Corkbspokdfkt.
We fliall fee how much the principles
of liberty and equality are really prized,
by one w 110 has prattled a great deal about
them—and who no sooner landed in our
country, than he enlisted a rabble of half
witted and less than half principled incen
diaries, to blow the sparks of war into a
flame. The chaiafter of this country h;.s
not been spared by the virtuous band of
scribblers, who advocated privateering and
foreign influence. It has bocu represented
at no longer free. The head of this pa
triotic fraternity, surely will not flay in
a land that is not free. How will it suit
his fancy to go home to that happy regrbn
oflibeity and equality, where it does not
depend upon law or constitution, whether
a man lhall have his head on his own
(houlders or on a pole ? He will shew the
lincerity of his attachment to that fort of
liberty, by afhially going heme to enjoy
it. Let him take with him his club, and
all thole purified and fublirnated fouls, who
hate this corrupted government and it's
fordid Caves. Their own exalted standard
of morals and political principles, ex id al
ready in France. They would be at home
there. It will be a lo::g time before we
(hall order these matters as well as they do
: in that country.
Died, in this City, a few d.'.ys since,
Mrs. Hannah Hawkes, consort of Captain
Hawkes.
In the Weft-Indies, after a (hort
illness, Mrs. Abigail Prrfct, in the 19th
year of her age—wife of Capt. Benjamin
Prefcot, and daughter of the late Pierce
Long, Esq. Her death happened on the
fame day with that of her filler's (the wife
of Tobias Lear, Esq.) who died in this
city, the 27th July.
(Jj* The petition presented by Mr,
Murray, as mentioned in the proceedings
of the Koufe of Representatives of the
28th inft. was from two French citizens,
Mefirs. Gaurain & Lewis Dubourgin
behalf of their unfortunate countrymen n
lone—the object of the prayer is eacprefsly
confined to women and childreH.
Good Hope, Sharnock, N. Prov. lo
Schr. Dairy Maid, Hommel!,Ciirracoa, 60
Weymouth. L'Hcmmedieu, N. Y. 14
Dolphin, Watson, ditto.
Sloop Tiger, Pearce, N. London,
The Qlipt Peggy, Captain Elliott, and
Liberty, Miller, outward bound, being
injured by the ice, are come up to refit.
Friday last arrived here, the brig Fair
Hebe, Captain Brown, in 73 days from
Cadiz.—Beiides the following American
vessels, Capt. Brown failed out of Cadiz
Bay with a Spanish 74, a frigate and a
small convoy for the Havanna.
Ship Creetiway, Cnpt. Amos Oakmarf;
Nancy, John Smith ; Rookfby, Nathaniel
Jones ; Commerce, Joseph Loring ; la
duftvy, Perry of Philadelphia.
Biig Cruger, John Alibon ; Dolphin,
Live Stutfi.n; Aurora, Thompson j Polly,
M'Kain, of Philadelphia; Goat, Elifh
Huntington.
Schr. Dispatch, William Wallace.
Sioop Ditto. Pray.
Several of these were to be protested
by Spanish ships of War.
Exlraß from tie Log-Book, of Jloop Stork,
Isaac Chirk, majier, from Guadalovpc,
to Boflon.
November ao. Lat. 28, 30. long. 68.
was brought too by the pmsteer fchcober
Louisa, of Bermuda, Opt. Allboy, who
sent his boat with the Lieutenant to ex
amine Capt. Clark's papers ; after care
fully examining, and being falisfied no
French property was on board, he wiflied
Capt. Claik a good palfage to Bolton.
Capt. Clark, was then sick, and confined
to his ftate-rootn, and C?pt. Allboy, sent
his boat along fide, the Stork, tSe fecend
time, with all the Fowls he had on bc-rd,
and half a dozen bottles of wine, vhich
he begged Capt. Clark to accept. Capt.
Clark, received them with thanks, and the
Fowls in particular were very acceptable.
CO* The Subscriptions for this Paper art
rapidly rncrtafing. Upwards of Five Hun
dred are Jtruei iff daily.
jidvcrtifun fa vors from tht friends and
patrons of toe PubUoatior., are. ref^ilfulij
IRON reus.-
folicittJ,
JANUARY 30.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED.
Dav*.ADVERTISEMENT;
I'ir iaiu, horthumficiUna Counts, Lcc 28; 1793
FOR SALE,
A Valuable Trad of LAND,
in thi> county, containing at><>o. eight
iKiiiti'ed acres, one fourth of which is low
grounds, of quality; the oilics thrci
fourths is high land, well coveted with oak,
hickory and chef nut.
The fituaiioA is pleafantand healthy, on Yen.
comico river, aoout three miles from the Poto
mack There is on it a two story brick riwel
linghoulc, with four roouu and a ptttfa.e on
each floor, exdufive of clefett; a good kitchcn,
;no othe» neceflary out-houfiS- It hes ntchaids
of apple and p ach trees, and is well watered
hy many delightful springs. The icrn.s n-.iv t >e
kn >wn on application to the Honorable JOHN
HEATH, tn Philadelphia, or to the fjblcribcr,
living on the piemifes.
JOHN GORP^V
J in. to. drf
Excellent CLARET,
In hogP«:ads anu in cafcadf 50 ooitlcs eacb.
ALSO,
A few cases C.hampaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipe.', ; and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
iii, sv>ut h front- in •' t
1 -qu
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN at) e"a 1 1 e (ituatioi*, —alio a Country Seat
witbio 6 miles of the City, «ith 9 acres of
l*nd, or 42 acre"; of 'a-d and meadow, the
Houle is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
23.
Parry and Mufgraye,
Goldsmiths y Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
Jin elegant AJTortment of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY tet Jim CUTLERY,
Which they will diij>.>se ot on the most rea
sonable tc his. Devices in hair, Miniatures
iett, and every thing in the gold and silver
way. dure 'i' ulual.
D<?ccmlx* r 24
Insurance Company.
I'kHadc phi , January 6, i 794-
NOTICE IS hereby g.veit 10 the members
of the Infutance Company <»f North-
America, that the D re&ovs have declared a
d v rief d (to the last fix months) of six reR
Cent, on t ie amount ot the firit a d second
inflalments; and of 01 e per cent per month
on rhe Turns paid in anticipation of the third
iuftalment, calculating from the fii ft day of
the month following that, in which thole pay
ments were made. Tiie dividend will be paid
to the or their representatives,
at t.ie company's office, No. 119 south Front
ftreet, at any time after the 13th i'lftant.
By o-dcr of" the Di'«ftors.
EBENEZER lIAZAKD, Secretary.
Jan. 9. v.&f.mi.
Treasury Department,
NOTICE is hrreby given, that piopolah win
be teeeived at tlie Office of the Secietary
ot the Trealurv, uutii the 6 h ol February nex:
iiirlufive, tor the supply of all Rtious which
may be required during the prefrni year, at th<
icvtial piaccs of rendezvous hereafter mention
ed, lor the Reeruirng Service, Viz.
At New-Biunfwiek, in New-Jirfcy;
At Philadelphia,
At Lancaster, > io Pcnnfy tvania.
At Reading, )
The rations 10 be fumifhed are to confiftof the
following, articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One p' uun of beel, or f of a pound of pork,
Half ■* jill of rum, brandy or wlulky,
One quart of la 1 1
Tv quans of loorllions .
"1 wo p.'»uiKiH ot k>ap t
On pound of candles)
Jan. o,
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1794.
XTOTICE is hereby given, that tbeie will
1\ be paid at the Bank, after the fixteentb
instant, to the Stockholders or their reprefen
t»tives. duly authorized fi'teen dollars and
fifty rents for each (hare, being the dividend
declatedfor the last fix months.
Bv O'der,
JOHN ICE AN, Cacti cr.
\ 3^_
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Sctsndjlreet,
Seconddoor b.-low the corner of Chefmit-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general AJfortment of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be disposed of on the lowed terms.
Dec. 23. iuw&f tf
ALL persons having any de
•.pane;? agamft the fltaif ot G' ORGE
WIBLF., late ol the city of Philadelphia, baker,
are r<qu< flrd to bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated ; and those who are indebted, arc
,4rf>r«d to make immWiatc payment.
HENRY RtfcS, AniiiiLlraror.
January 13.
This day is pullifhed,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. itß, Maikit-itrut,
(Price a quarter dollar)
A short account of ALGIERS,
Containing a description of the climate of that
country —of the manners and customs of ihe in
haSitaots, and of their Ceveial warsagainft Spain,
Fiance, England, Holland, Venice, and other
powers of Europe j fiom the usurpation of Bar
baroffa and the of the Emperor Charles
V. to tbe prefcnt time; with a concise view of
the orig n of the ruotute between ALGIERS
and the UNITED STATES.
an. q
The Young LADIES'
Drawing Academy,
Under the Direction of
S. FOLWELL,
Will, in a few dtiys, be resumed.
HE feels a gratitude to those parents
and guardians of the young ladies,
who have entrulled to him their tuition—
ajid as mod of them are to return, he will
have an opportunity, bv his endeavors for
their further improvement, to acquit him
felf of a debt, which he esteems it an honor
to have incurred.
One or two large Rooms,
In a central fituition, suitable to accom
modate bis pupils, are wanted. Apply to
liim, at No. 2, L?etitia Court —where he
will be thankful to receive commands for
Miniature Painting or Hair Work, and all
kind of Drawing on Ivory, Sattin or
Paper
January 13, I 794
War Atlas.
ni&tl-
This Day is Published,
(Price T<ivo Dollars)
By MA THE W CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Jlreet,
A Colle&ion of Maps,
Including the whole of the vaiious Scats of
the present War in Euiope and the Weft.
I "die*, via.
i X T s .Po' the United Provinces of Holland,
Fifc/fand, OveryflTei, Gfl
dtrs, L'trcchi, and Zealand.
2. Map of the French, Dutch, and Austrian
Netherlands.
3. Map of France divided into cireles and
depart went#.
rruvS-'f'-f
4. Map of Spain and Portugal,
/j. Map of Germany and Switzerland,
6. Map of Italy.
7. Map of the Weft-Indies.
N. B. Any of the above Maps may be had
feperate.
Said Carey has lately puuiifoed
Account of Algii rs — with a Map—\J\Og.
Account of the Malignant Fever, 4th edition—
Sjg—Dr. Naffy'a Treatile on do.— ifio£.
Jan. 25 4'- 2JW.
MONfcY borrowed 01 leaned, accounts fta
•ed or colle&ed, employers suited with
domestics, houfc rooms, boarding and lodging
tented, let or procured—foldiei's, mariner's,
or militia men's f»ay, lands and claims on the
public ; (hares in the banks, in the canals, and
the turnpike road ; certificates granted by the
pnblic, and the old and Ute paper mome«;
notes of hand, bills, bond* and morgages, with
or without deposits—Bought, fold, or nego
ciaicd at No. 8, >11 south Sixth ttreet, belr»w
Markct-ftrert bv FRANCIS WHITE,
Who tranfa&s bufinef* in the public offines for
country peop'e and others, by virtue of a pow
er ot attorney, or by peifonal application.
Deccmbrr 11
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the fubferiber has been duly ap
pointed Administratrix on the estate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Efq- late of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herlelf that trust, by giving
bond l ; as the law dire<sts—and all persons in
terested, arc defirtd to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793-
fawi6F.
ALL perflms who have anydemands agalnft
«heEftat' of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Eq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the .Subscriber, Attorney
to the Administratrix o' said Estate : And all
persons who (land indebten to said Estate, are
requested to fetrle with h m immediately; as the
a 4 of Limitation of AAtons, which is to take
place on the fir It day A* December next, will
otherwise render it necelfary for bim 10 com
mence suits again ft them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Nov. 13, 179^-
N B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requ> fted to mfert this in their
refpe&ive itewfpaperv aud forward their ac
counts for the fame, to J. M
JUST PUBLISHED,
jind to be fold by
Thomas Dobfou,
Price three eighths of a Dollar,
" An Enquiry into tjje principles
and tendency of certain public
measures."
January 16.
2aw3w.
diw
stake Notice.
dtw
Just: Imported,
From Loudon, Dublin and Glasgow,
And now opening for 'ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jlrtet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NE?V Annua] Regifterfor 1792
European Magazine for the fir ft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Jo]i
Memty, a colle&ion of essays
Varieof Pruflia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
Ruflell's ancient and modern Europe
L.inghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extra&s, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Briflon's vorage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Tado's Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips'* history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftao
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's defcriprion of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preftoo on masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kifles of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on maleria'ifm and immaferialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of V oltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacituc
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's fketcbes of the history of man
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhoufc dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's the.ory of moral sentiment*
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. &: Illd.
Wonders of nature aud art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wall son the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,RufCa,Poland,&c.
Cox's travel* into Switzerland
Rabant's history of th« French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motlierby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mufcies
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Ouincy's dfpenfarory
Edinburgh difpenfafory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armiec
Haller's physiology
Spalanxane's difl'ertations
London practice of physic
Bell's lurgerv
Chantai's chemistry.
zy Terms of Siibfcription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—to it
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of persons
u-ho reftde at a diflante from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
AdvertisementS of onefquare, or less, in
frrtedfovr times for One Dollar— <mce, for
Fifty Cents-—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this fine, and Subfcrip
lions, <wtU be gratefully received -at the Office
in South Fourtbflrtet,jive doors north if the
Indian £>ut!n
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States wa6 lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor,
Stock Brokers Office*
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THESubfcnber intending 10 confine himfeK
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE Of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b.gs leave to of
fir his Cervices to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their bufmefs, may depend
upon having it tranla&cd with theuiracft fide
lity and difpaich.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United State*, will be ftriftly
attended to. LEONARD BLbECKEK.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
!n Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying-
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
thole of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
ftiorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chaiis, and harness
of every delcription, in the neatcft and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he ha? a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, ard capital workmen, he has
not the lealt doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion to those who please to employ him.
He has for fate, several carriages almost
friifhed, such as coachees, an Italian windi'or
chair, hung on steel fpi ing<s, a ligl t phaeton far
one or two horses, and a lulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jar. 6, 1794 ni&t3m
Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookleller, at the Stone Honll*, in Second
ftreet FliilaMeiphm.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia ; or Dictiouart
Of A ts, Sciences, and Milcellaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
BT WHICH
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are d'lgcjlcd into the form of
Diltintt Treaties or Systems :
THIS volume contains principles of Levels,
Liberty, Doctrine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, Hiftorv of Lon
don, Longitude. Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetifir, Malts, Hil
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Mafonrv, Materia. Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illullrated with TwxN'
ty two Copperplates.
As a number ot families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the subscribers to cali or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poiTible.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an impetfed ltate, some ac
count of the reason of that imperfb&ion ihouid
be c,iven. On the Bth of September last, the
Publilher had the misfortune of having his
Printing-Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the figures, with
which he was printing the tables of lo
garithms, belonging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately,
obtained, he was under the necessity of pub
lifhing the volume without the e tasles; but
hopes he (hall be able to publi(h them with the
next volume which is now in considerable for
wardnefs.
The Publiftier embraces this opportunity of
exprefling his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for {he very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to fucb of the fubfer ibert
as are in a-rears, the indifpeniible necessity of
pun&uality, both in taking up the volumes as
early as pollible after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the sub
scribers having got only one, two, three, &:c.
volumes, and several volumes remain vkpamn
Thus the work hangs in all it« different stages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpmD lays the Publilher under
very serious emharraffinent, and deprives him
of the use of many Thousands of Dollars which
at this time would be of very essential service.
For tbefe rcafons the Publilher finds himlelf
under the necefiity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but »nlv to those who
take and pay to the time of publication.
Decrmbrr so
PHILADELPHIA
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. j,
South Fourtk-Strcct.
saw 11 J.