of ?l,c (Dnitcfi
EVENING ADVE
[No. 78 of Vol. V.]
For Sale or Charter,
Jgjt ANDROMACHE,,
(an American bottom )
John Moore, Master ;
Is a stout good reflel, about two yfcars old,
burthen 234 tons, has olliy made three voy
ages, and may be ferit to sea at a small ex
pence. She may be seen it Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
Wharton Lewis.
dtf
Feb. 22, 1794-
For Frederick Qmrgh and
Falmouth,
(Rappahannock River, Virginia)
THE SCHOONER
Friend/hip,
,-Henry Macnam&ra,M£ftcr
Will fail on Saturday next. For freight or
p&lTJige arfjify to the Captain on board, at
John Willi's Whdi 4 ?, or to
Efhanuel Walker.
WHO PAS FOR SALE,
VIRGINIA
Tobacco, flour,
WHEAT, and GINSENG
March 5
For Amsterdam,
£~TL-l The neir faft-faifing, copper
bottomed SHIP
ffgg ADUIANA
K. Fitipzttficß, Master.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and w&s in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient fpecd. For freight or paflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengers will be lafided in Eng
land if required.
March 6> 1794. dtf
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, JAPANN'D
PLATES, &e.
X)orie in the most elegant manner, and after
the firft matters ; likewise,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finilhed at the (horteft notice, by
GEQRGE RUTTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walntft,
Fourth and Fifth streets.
March 4.
WHEREAS an alias fubpeena has iflTued
out of the Supreme Court of this Com
monwealth, at the suit of Marcaret Evans,
upon a petition preferred by the said Marga
ret, praying for a Divorce from the bonds of
Matrimony, entered in to with Robert £v a ns.
This is to give notice to the said Robert, that
he be and appear at the said Supreme Court, to
be held at the Citv ps Philadelphia on Monday
the seventh day of April next, at the State-House
iri the said City, to answer the matters alledged
in the said petition.
Wm. chapman,
Sheriff of Bucks County.
March 5, 1794.
To Robert fy&ns.
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased,
The'Houfe N°
AND
Lot of Ground
On which itftands, wherein James Biddle
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
street, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet 10 inches iri
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold tub
je<ft to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their fucceffort
forever. For tenns apply to
SamuElCoates,
Jonathan Jones,
Anthony W. Morris,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, dec'd.
*eop 3W
March i, 1794*
Jaft Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland. Sheeting,
'Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious Jtzes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c.&c,
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun,
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
should application be made'within a few days ;
other wife Jhe will take freight for Amfler
dvm.
March I, 1794.
Treasury of 'Pennsylvania-,
February I4> *79
PUBLIC Notice is heieby givi n to all pci ions
indebted to the Commonwealth, tor monies
borrowed of the Trustees 6t the Loan Office,
ellablifhed per of the 4th ot April, 1785,
that the time is expired when the latl payment
should have been made, and every juftifiable
indulgence having been granted, That unltfs
they come forward and pay off their rcfpe&ive
balances on or before the firft day ot April next,
precepts will issue againtk atl{ delinquents with
out regard to persons or circumllances. All
former and existing fKei iffs, who have money
in hands belonging to fdid Officc, are re
quested to bring it to me on or before the above
period, otherwise I fh 11 be under the difagrce
able neceflity of prosecuting them without aif
tnnftion.
3twf|f
P S. The Printers throughout t,hc State are
requested to inlert rhe above in their papers for
the information of their fcllow-citizens. d
A Journeyman Bookbinder
WANTED,
Who can be recommended for his industry
ind sobriety—He hear of employ by
applyingto Mr.HENRyKAMMERER, N0.24,
North Third-street.
March 8.
A Slitter of Iron
WANTED.
A MAN well flailed, in rolling and
flitting Iron into Sheets, may have
good encouragement by calling on the
Printer. Feb. 27. eop4t
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglltcads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogfhtads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
No. 111, South Front*i\reet,
Jan. 2, 1794.
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commiflions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked', and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
* 1 a w 4. w
Philadelphia, Ventofeifith, fecoridyear of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
(March 6th, 1794, 0. s.)
The Minister Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHF.T.
• 2 45'
The Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are requested to republifh the
foregoing notice. J
A RECOMMENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby offered by the Ptefident and Direc
tors of the Bank of the United States, to any
person who lhall, on or before the full day of
May next, produce to them such a plan and ele
vation ot a Banking House, as fhali be approved
of by them.—A plain, yet handlome Iront is
desired : The whole building is to be substantial
and commodious with «s much space around it,
as th* size of the ground will admit.
The Lot on which the building'is to be ere&-
ed, is fiiuated on the weft fid? of ThiVd-ftreet,
between Chefnut and Walnut-streets in Phila
delphia ; and its dimenfion> are no feet on
Thifd-ftreet, and about too feet well ward.
THOMAS WILLING, Prcfident
cop gtv.
AND
Thursday, iV
d—tf
CHRISTIAN FEBIGER
*d s t
JOHN VAUGHAN,
arch 15, 1794.
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Storey No. 25, Dock-
Street :■—
A few Balis of Kuftid Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale ot low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Btimftone,
With a Variety of other Goods,
feb. 20. 3taw6w
Stock Brokers Office,
No. i 6, Wall-street, NeaV-York.
THE Subfcnber intending ro confine himfelf
eutirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, bigs leave 10 of
I r his tervicesto his friends and others, in the
line oi a Stock Broker. Those Who may please
to tavor him wuh their bufinels, may depend
upon having it iranladcd with theuimoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Oidurt Iroin Philadelphia, Boflon, or any
other part of the United Slates, will i>e ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&thlf
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegantHoufe,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible iituation, —also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres ot Jand and meadow, the
Houle is rtot exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size or convenience,
For terms appiy to the printer.
January 23,
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fouith and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Epilicopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as,
tbQ.fe gj the public iu general.
He continues to make and repair at the
shortest notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
luch as cfoaclies, chariots, phaetons with and
without crai*e necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor chairs, and harness
ofevory delcriprion, in the neatest and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United Stares.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion to thole whopleafe to employ him.
He has for sale, several carriages almost
finifhed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phrto.n for
one or two horses, and a lulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission,
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794. xn&t£m
'To be Sold at Public Venatte,
On Friday the nthday of April next,
at the house of John Thowfon, in Perth-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
THE Lot contains eleven aci.es, on which is
an orchard of grafted apple trees, a well of
excellent water, a large (lone ciftcrn, and a veiy
commodious stable and coach-house, and a great
quantity ot the best building tyones in the walls
of the house, which was formerly built for the
residence of the Governors of New-Jersey. The
fuuation of this Lot is so well known for us
healthiness and beautiful profpefl of the Rari'oo
river to the weft of the bay, and Sandy-Hook to
the east, that a further description is unnecessary.
The conditions of sale will be, one third of the
purchase money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, when a gooo and fuHicirnt Deed will
be given to the purchaler, by Waltir Ru
thrrfurd, Esq. President of the Boaid of
Proprietors ot the Eastern Division of New-
Jeifey, and the remaining two thirds fatisfafto
rily (ecured in equal annual payments.
By order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Rafter.
Pcrth.Amboy, February 5, 1794. aaw2m
For the Gazette of the United States.
The conduct of the powers at war is such
that an American cannot but feel for the ho
nor and fafety of his country. The report of
the Secretary of State, as well as other note,
rious proof, (hews that we fuffer wronpand
encroachment both from the French and the
Englifli. The feifure and Condemnation of
our vessels in the Weft Indies by the inglifli,
is yet but imperfectly explained to,us, but e
nough is known to convince us that the afpeft
of things is very alarming to our peace. To
loft our (hips and cargoes or to go to war to
R T I S E R.
[Whole No. 556.)
p rote <51 them, is a dreadful alternative. Peace
ought to be the aim of our politics as long as
it can be maintained. Two things are .now
proper—To lay alkie party disputes, and to in
dulge no intemperate passions. Parties now
owe it to their country to (hew their zeal for
the common welf are. Something must be done
but is it doing any thing worthy of* the Crilis,
worthy ot the firm aud confiderata chai after of
our nation, worthy of the neutral station we
have publicly taken, to celebrate French tri
umphs. Is peace our ol jest ? It"it really is*
let ns keep peace—Let u behave like neutrals
and not like p3rtir sin the quarrel. If the dis
asters of the English arms ihould make them
less unjust, or left arrogant, than we think they
are, and if in consequence our chance for'pre
ferving peace should be the more favorable,
every patriot will rejoice in the event. The
f Ifure of our veffeU in the Weft Indies, on the
prerence ot rheir being forfeited by the laws
ot Louis 7 the if it has realty happeued, as
we have the molt alarming ground-: to fear it
has,is a fcttndalous breach of the L*ws of Jus
tice and of Neutrality, which merits our in
diguatiou. Even on that supposition, it is our
policy and our iutercft to iake our meafurel
coolly and cautiously. We must not take coun
fcl of our palfionv—let ua (hew the impartial
world, that We have courted peace in the love
of peace—that they are the aggrefT«>rs and
th t all men ought to wish to fee them hum
bled. What nuidnefs is it therefore, at this
critical moment, for the citizens of New York
to shew their paitizanfhip iji the war. Why
should they ring their bells ? What docs it fay
to the woi Id but that America is an enemy
under a niafk, prose/sing neutrality,yet shew
ing the most ardent paitiality. Is this a
proper time to give a pretext to the Eng
liih who feein to be ready enough even with
out one to violate our rights ? Is it our pru
dence to put into their mouths charges a
gainst our sincerity ? They will not fail to
fay, you are enemies who dare riot to de
clare war and yet fnppofe yourselves entitled
to indulge the passions of enemies—you allow
tin French to fell their priz<sin your ports.
—You refufe the like privilege 10 us—your
newspapers, your public meetings, your toasts
and even y«ur tegiflative bodies, avow your
hatred of us. The ce lebrat ion of French tri
umphs, is done by public order, and at public
charge. This is not neutrality-—it is hostili
ty, and, therefore, we make reprifais. If
we would avoid war, let our prudence refufe
any act of merfling with its events or paflioiu.
Every individual may freely indulge his feel
ings—but, a public parade of them, is peed
lefs —is rash—is iufulting. SEN EX.
m&th—tf*
The following was prepared for yefter-
Hay's Papei, but was omitted for want of
room.
Extras of a letter from Captain IVilliam
Bell of the brig Union of Philadelphia,
dated Crooks Haven, River Elbe, No
vember 1, 1793.
" I have the pleasure to inform you of
my fafe arrival here the 29th ult. and am
at present under quarantine on account of
the sickness which prevailed in Philadel
phia, and my having loft one man who
died the second day after I got to sea. On
my passage I was boarded by a French,
frigate called the Flora, they made me
hoilt both my boats out, firft one and
then the other, which stove along fide j
otherwise they behaved well. When near
the Channel, was boarded by a cutter
which I think was from Gurnfey, and be
cause I could not hoist my boat out, they
being told of the reason, they fired two
(hot through my mainsail, one in a dircct
line over my head within two feet of me ;
they at last took pofTeffion of me, fending
an officer and ten men on board, who sent
me on board the cutter where I was de
tained sixteen hours a prisoner ; they
would not even fuffet me to go on deck by
myfelf: the prize-matter on board my vcflcl
ft ruck the Mate, and turned him forward,
that night he broke all the letters open,
and it was with great difficulty the Mate
kept him from deitroyingthem, they drank
my best liquors— rummaged all the chests
and bedding, carried off several valuable
articles of my own, fortunately I had se
cured my money a few days before, 2600
dollars would have been an excellent booty
for them—ln getting from on board the
Cutter, a heavy sea running, I was obliged
to jump a great height, and cut my left
leg moll (hockingly to the bond, carrying
away great pieces of my flefh, and I fear
it will be a long time before 1 git the
better of it."
PHILADELPHIA.CONGRESS.
Houfz of Rcp'i tfcntafivcs.
January 30.
In commit'.: t - uj -;<•
rcj<J*utiuru
SjKicb of Air, Madijon.
[ .'ONTINUED.]
4t'jfy. T.i* prjpofcd rcfolutions would
favor an advantageous competition and
dntribution ot our trade, among the ma
nufactqri ng nations of Europe. At pre
f nt, it may he said to be monopolized by
one ; To great is tire di'proporlion of its
m inufadtures which come to our market.
I nat this is an evil, has been admitted,
*;id cinnot be doubted. It exposes us to
the greateit and molt sudden cmbarrafl*-
tn« nts from th£ capiiee, the paiTuns, the
mistaken calculations of mterelt, the bank
-1 nptc.es, and the wars of *a Jingle foreign
country. Miny of embarrafTmcnts
are felt at the present moment. If it were
poflible to liquidate them into a pecuniary
ltatement, it would be found that, in a
permanent view of our interest, there would
be economy in making very considerable
temporary facritices, for the purp9fe of
dividing our custom among a number of
competitors. It was not true, that Great
Britain alone can fupplvthe manufactures
we want. Fiance, the United Netherlands,
and fevcral other nat\>ns, are capable of
Supplying us with a variety of articles, as
well as the nation from which they now
come; and, if invited to our markets
V prudent encouragements in the firft
mlUuce, will soon lcain to faPnion their
manufactures to the wants ar,d tailes of
this country. The policy of favoring* par
ticular branches of ftracje, even at some ex
pence, in order to guard againlt the evil
of depending on a single one, was exemp
lified by the condu6t of Great Britain her
iv lt. A •though he viewed her difci.imina
tions generally, refpeaing, us, in .the light
he had explained ; yet, he thought it pof
fibie, that in the iiutance of naval stores
a-.vl it might be her intention
to fofler a ri/afeh:p ,n a dillant quar
ter, in order to provide against a casual
pi tvation of the lupplics of a nearer quar
ter. 1 nefe artieies are central to the ma
rine of Great Britain ; her marine is
eiTcntial to her greatuefs Were (he to
have no reiource but in the Baliic, a war
wfth the Baitfc powers might be fatal to
h r. .It may be wife in her, therefore, to
iteep ooen t.e American resource, even at
tle p?ice of a tax on hei fe:r. In this' cafe
(he mult' quarrel with both the Baltic
powers and the United States at the fame
time, be for? thefupplres will be cut off.
A member from Maflachufetts, (Mr.
D&ter) had not, Mr. M. said, been very
eo.uiltent in his i eafoning on this fubjedt.
rich id contended againit all attempts to
Excite .a beneficial competition, on the
idea tli t no competition could be benefi
ci 1 .vhich would not spring up of itfelf;
and yet he had warned us against the dan
ger, that Area's Britain, by exciting a
competition agair.ft the United States, in
tiiofe parts of Europe, which mod refera
ble the infant situation of our country,
might eftablilh new sources from which
supplies would afterwards fpontaiieciufly
flow tu her, without being «ver again
w anted from the United States. The fame
remaik was applicable to the leafoningof
the other gentlemen who had represented
the danger of exciting a permanent rival
(hip for the Weft-India market, in favour
of Canada and Nofk Scotia.
Fifthly. The plan of the resolutions
tended to conciliate nation! in treaty, or
disposed to be in treat)' with lis, into ar :
rangemen:B still more favourable to our
commerce-. This argument had peculiar
weight in relation to France. It had been
said that Great Britain was our belt cus
tomer. The fa£l, he said, was that we
were her bell cullomer: but that France
w;',6 our best customer. We consume more
of British manufactures than any other
nation in the world consumes. France
consumes more of oiir productions, than
any other nation confurr.e3. He referred
to the statement* he had before offered for
proof of this. Her consumption was also
of the most valuable kind ; and under fa
vourable regulations would be a very grow
ing one. It confiltcd of wheat and flour,
kit provisions, and firh; articles which
were not admitted by Great Britain ; and
which without the market of France,
would glut every other.
Of ourfilh (he consumed si ve eighths of
the whole exportation. Her use of our
live animals was another important cohfi
deration. It amounted, in the lilt of our
exports, to 352,795 dollars, for the year
1791. In the fame the Britilh de
mand amounted to no more than 62,4.15
dollars. The superior proportion of na
vigation we enjoyed in the French chan
nels of intercourfc had already been {hewn.
In examining the policy of cultivating
and securing the Fiench markets, he said
it ought not to be forgotten, that the pro
fits and the revenue ariling from the rum
diltilleries, depended on an article obtain
ed almoit, if not from thifc
French dominions alone ; and which was
the only raw material of any confequcnce
imported into the United States. It was
paid for also, as had been much urged on
otiiei occalionsby members on the oppo
site lide, in the worll fifli, which could
find a vent in no other part of the world.
The MolafTes imported into the United
Statcsin one year, amounted to upwards
oi leven millions of gallons, more than
one half of- which went into the state
of MalTachufetts. He took notice also
of the article of sugar, as rendered of
great importance by our habits and our
finances; and of which more than one
half was fuppliedby the French Weft-In
dies. Out of 17,142,723 dollars impor
-9,32 dollars were received
from that source. The residue came from
the Danifti, Dutch, and British domini
ons, in the following proportions, to
wit. Danish, 2,833,010 dollars, Dutch
*»7°7» 2 3 J dollars. Britilh 2,280,647
dollars. This ltatement was taken from
the imports of 1790, the only year he
had been able to examine on this point.
It had been said, why grant privileges
before a mutual grant should be secured
by positive stipulation ? Why throw away
by a legal regulation, wtoat ought to be
the price of treaty ? He answered, that
the legal regulation threw nothing away*
as i; was always recoverable : That in the
p: „fer.t iiiftance, it was only meeting the
legal regulations of which France had set
the example : that inltead of being a bar
to treaty, such a courie of proceeding,
more than any other, would smooth the
way to it, by explaining the objects, and
eftabli/hing. a confidence, on both fides—
that it be happy, if in all cases,
where treaties are in view, this open and
cone ilia t orjr -process. could take the place
of that relerve and mysterious r
on, with which the parties approach each
Other. Were Great Britain deiirous of
forming amicable arrangements by treaty,
he affced what readier or more prudent
step could file have taken for the purpose,
thap to have followed "the example set her,
by holding out in her laws, the spirit in
which Hie was willing to meet us in nego
ciation ?
on Mr, M.iitjoiis
Having gone through these explanati
ons, Mr. M. entered into a view of the
principal obje&ior.s to the " resolutions
proposed.
I. It was said they would diminish the
revenue, and endanger the funds.
With refped to the public debt, his
general ideas had been exprefled by several
who had spoken before him. He acknow
ledged that he had disliked and opposed
the modification given to it; but after it
had received the fanchon of law, he bad
entertained no other with on the fubjea,
than th.it the debt might be honorably
difeharged, as fact as the circumstances of
ttye country would permit. This he was
r well frtisfied was the prevailing sentiment
of the great body of the people, lie did
not believe, that there was a fingfe state
in the Union, or any considerable part of
a single state, that did not acquiesce (where
they did not approve) in the provisions
vyhich had been made in behalf of the pub
lic creditors. At the fame time he was
equally sure, that it never was either meant
-by Congress, or understood by the' public,
that in mortgaging the import for their
security, it was to be an hostage to foreign
countries for our unqualified acquiescence
in their unequal laws, and to be worrte,
as long as the debt (hould continue, as a
badge of national humiliation. The nature
of the obligation could certainly import no
more in favor of the creditors, than that
the fund appropriated (hould be applied,
as far as requisite, to their nfe ; unless e
quivalent funds (hould be substituted ; nor
more against the public, than that all de
ficienrfiei in the fund (hould be made up,
whether arising without, or in consequence
of, a change in the laws. If it (hould
happen,- then, that in consequence of any
mcafure, dictated by the general good,
the impofi: (hould become inadequate to
its obje£t, all that could be exacted by the
public creditors, would be some other
provision that woiJd supply the defalca
tion ; and it ought not to be doubted,
that the people at large, whose good was
purfaed, would readily support whatever
other provision might become indifpenfi
ble. He had made these remarks, how
ever, with reference to an event, which
he did not by any means admit to be pro
bable. The more he had revolved the fub
jedl, the more clearly it appeared to him,
that a very operative addition might be
made to the duties on the enumerated arti
-cles, without endangering the Aggregate
product of the importations. Ai.d he en
tirely concurred in opinion with those,
who had observed, that the greatest injury
which' could be done to the class of citi
zens holding the public paper, was to re
present their interests as more to be re
garded, than any national considerations
whatever; and to oppose to the latter,
even the most imaginary contingencies to
the former.
(Speech to be continued.)
March 11
Sundry petitions were presented and
referred.
The House went into committee of the
whole on the bill to provide, for the de
fence of certain ports, See. and, after
some time spent in the business, the bill was
reported with amendments and pafled to
a third reading.
A bill came down fra&tlie Senate pro
viding for building 3, light-house on Cape-
Hatteras, and one near Occacock Island ;
twice read in the House.
A bill was reported, providing for
building a light-House on Seguin in the
Diet rift of Maine—twice read.
These two bills were incorporated to
form one.
The amendments of the committee of
the whole to the bill providing for the ex
pense attending foreign intercourse were
agreed to, and the bill pasTed to a third
reading.
Adjourned.
Wedrlefday, March 12
The bill providing for the defence of
certain ports and harbors was read the
third time and passed.
The bill making appropriations for the
fopport of the military eftabliihment of
the United States for the year 1794. was
brought in engrofled—in filling up the
blanks, the estimate of expences which
will attend the fortifying certain ports and
harbors was incorporated— the bill was
then pafTed.
The foreign intercoarfe bill was also
palled this day.
Mr. Sedgwick, after some prefatory
remarks, read agreeable to notice on Mon
day lad the following resolutions :
Resolved, That there be raised, armed
and equipped, fifteen regiments of auxi
liary troops, toconfiftof iooo men rank
and file each, with the proper officer*.
Resolved, Fhat the commiflioned *flp
cers thereof be appointed as other officers
of the United States, and that the non
commissioned officers and privates be in
lifted for the term of two years ; and with
this condition, that if war should break
out within that time, between the United
States and any foreign European power,
they (hall be bound to serve for the term
of three years, after the commencement
of the war, if the fame (hall so long con
tinue.
Resolved, That in the cafe of such
war, the officers of the said regiments
shall be entitled to the like pay and sub
sistence, and to equal rank and command
with the officers of the present military
eflablifhment of the United States ; but
except in such cafe (hall be entitled to pay,
only for the time they (hall actually attend
on the days of training and excrcife here
after mentioned.
Resolved, That each non-commiflioned
officer and private (hall, by virtue of his
lnlittment, be entitled to a bounty, con
filling of a suit of clothes per annum, of
the value of twelve dollars, and (hall also
be entitled to a compensation of half a
dollar per, day, for each day he (hall as
semble for the purpose of training or
exercising ; which except in cafe of war,
with some foreign European power, (hall
not exeei d twenty-four days in one year ;
& in th-t cafe each noncommissioned offi
cer & private (hall be entitled to the fame
pay and rations, and (hall be fubjeft to
the fame rules ami regulations, as the o
ther troops of the United States.
Resolved, That the said regiments (hall
be furmihed witharms and accoutrements
at the expense of the United States to be
returned at the expiration of their ferm
of services
Resolved, That revenues by taxes br
duties, competent to the purpose of de
fraying the expense of raising and paying
the said troops, be provided.
Resolved, That within two years and
Gx months after the time, which (hall be
prescribed by law, for beginning to enKtt
the, said troops, if no war (hall in the
mean time break out with any foreign
European power, the regiments aforefaid
(tfallbe abolilhed andceafei
Resolved, That the President of the
United States be authorised, if in hia
judgment the fafety or welfare of the
United States (hall require it, to lay an
embargo generally or particularly, upon
(hips in the ports or harbors of the Unit
ed States,, fpr a term, not exceeding at
any one time, forty days, and also to pro
hibit for a like term, generally or particu
larly, the exportation of commodities
from the United States, and such embar
go or prohibition to continue from time t6
time, until the expiration of fourteen
days after the commencement of the fat
(ion of Congress next ensuing the present.
These resolutions were read- twice and
committed, and ordered to be printed for
the use of the members.
A (ketch of the remarks which accom
panied the above resolutions (hall be givetf
to-morrow.
A mefiage was received from the Pre
sident of the United States, communicat
ing sundry representations from the offi
cers of the Spanish Legation—these were
read with closed galleries.
Foreign Intelligence.
LEGHORN, Nov. 27.
Yesterday we witnessed one of the mod
dreadful catastrophes. Le Scipion, a
French fliip "(If 74 guns, carrying
600 men whicß was lying at anchor
in this port withthe Britifli lquadron un
der the command of Admiral Cofby, be
came a prey to the flames. At three
o clock in the afternoon, large columns of
black imoke, riling from all parts of the
(hip, were the fore r unners of the flames,
which began to break forth a few mo
ments after. The crew, who were almolt
all on board of her,& had not the fmalieft
luipicion of any accident, finding they
could not withstand the rage of the fire
mostly flung themselves thro' the flames
into the sea, every one driving to es
cape with his life. Mean while a great
number of the jolly-boats belonging to the
Bntilh, Swedilh, and Neapolitan men <
war, picked up many of the unfortun
lufferers, and a great number of dead 1 -
dies were afterwards taken up, fuffocatei
or.drowned.
The reft, being invalids, or Ivifhinir to
ratingmlh the flames, which Wan to
spread in every part, fell victims.
About 4 o'clock, all -the and
malts were seen on fire ; the port-holes of
the cannon resembled ft, maty furnaces if.
fmng a fiery lava. The guns, loaded ei
ther with grape (hot or balk, we „t olf,
and threatened to set fire to the reft of
the ihipping.
Rear-Admiral Colby, finding the squa
dron of his Britannic Majesty too near
the French (hip, and exposed' to the moil
imminent danger immediately failed from
the harbour. Shortly after, the French
Ihip bore away from her anchors all on
hre ; fortunately a strong gale from the
kind, had preferred the (hipping i„ the
harbor from definition,while Le Scipion
pal Ted along, and that prevented great
misfortunes.
About eight o'clock in the evening.
-Le ocipton was four Italian miles from"
the port, when the great explosion took
place in the store-room, containing 300
barrels of gun-powder. The column of
fire, rose to the height of near 300 fa
thoms ; a large smoke ensued, which ap
peared interfered with flames, and du
ring several minutes the whole horizon
leemed to be on fire.
The explosion was so great, that it rr
lembled the effect of the mod dreadful
(hock of an earthquake, and an immense
number of window panes in this city
burst. After the explosion of the flore
room, the water rushed into the body
of the hulk, which began to fink.
About two o'clock in the morning no
further fignt of fire appeared on the fur
race of the sea.
t ' >e morr| ing, a piece of the ship wis
14,11 fecn out of the water, full of coali,
and covered with b«dies.It is (hocking to remark,that by a fire
which lulled only a few hours, a ship was
blown up, reckoned to be worth one mil
lion of piasters, besides 200 men of the
crew, including M. de Goy, the Cap
tian who would not quit her.
This dreadful accident is said to have
been occasioned by a barrel of brandy be
ing set on fire by a light which wa3 burn
ing near it.
. To the above loss we mufl add, that of
a great quantity of live ltock, and all
kind* of proviGon, destined for Toulon.
VIENNA, Dec. 6.
We learn, that the Empress of RutTia,
under the guarantee oi Great Britain aitd
Awftria, has obtained froin the Porte the
Jpng wifocd for conlent, to pass the Dar
danelles with a Ruiiian fleet,and thereup
on pronjifed to take a more deci'ive part
in the war agiiiul France.
FRANKFORT, Dec. 8.
A fubfeription has been opened to fur
mfh the combined army between Stras
bourg and Frankfort,'with pruvifions, and
fnch things as it may want ; and Frank
fort alone has offered to do it, out of gra
titude, and to let an example to others.
In Alsace, Wuraifur has been entreat
ed to permit the pcafants to arm them
feltes, which had not hitherto been grant
ed ; and a cordon will be formed albrig
the Rhine, and between the Eledtoral
Coui t and Landgrave of Hefie Caffel,
who is Colonel of the Upper P.hine.
•At Strasbourg' all wtlo will not agree
to the new irreligious principles arc per
fected ; and it is affirmed that Baron'
Abepkirch, who refilled to conform to
the new Faith was murdered !
General Kalkreuth is in a state of con
▼alefcence at Neuftadt.
A violent cannonade was heard ycfter
day and to day, which it is believed came
from the environs of ijtndau, or from
Bergzabern, where the Prince of liuheii
lohe is.
December 11
Since the late decisive engagement in
the Duchy of Deux Pants,' in which
the Duke of Brunt wick himftlf was slight
ly wounded* nothing particular has hap
pened in that quarter. The Camiaqncls,
however, take such mrafitres ne;ir Saar
and BJi, fs, as may enable them to r epeat
ere long, their attempts to break into
Germany.
Letters from Italy (late, t
county of Nice, the campaign is ended
for this year. General Stafoldo, who for
the betterprotection of the valley of Sture,
had advanced into the French territory,
has, by the great quantity of fnovv; been
compelled to fall back, and to fend his
troops into wintei quarters.
Before the commencement of the ac
t:on of the his Serene Highne{j the
Duke of Brunfwick addrefled his army to
the following effect:—" This is the mo
ment to convince the Universe, that the
Prufiian troops are worthy of the glory'
which they formerly acquired. The ftle
of Germany is in your hands, and
upon the event of this battle, I proffiife
you not to quit the field while one soldier
ft:.;! remain ; and, as it becomes me, you
thall ever find me in the poll of danger at
your head-"
Tht. whole army, fired by this address,
(truck the ground with their firelocks, and
the Duke was personally engaged in every
attack.
PARIS, December 13
The living, despoiled of their property
andweahh, and no longer*offering tempta
tion and spoils to the pubKS depredators, the
latter have discovered a new mine of wealth,
by digging up the graves and robbing the
dead. With this view, the Mini.ler of War
has proposed tli'at all the churches, and bury
ing places (houfcl tfe iearched for leaden cof
fins.
Madame du Barre was executed on the 9th
inft. in the evening, on the Place de la Re
volution. Her behaviour was by no means
firm. The executioner was under the ne
cessity of supporting her in his arms during
the whole way. Being arrived at the foot of
the fcafTold, the two aiTiftants of the execuj*
tioner were obliged to lift her upon it.
When they were at the point of fattening
her on the plank, she exerted all her strength
and ran to the other fide of the fcafTold. She
was soon brought back and tied. Her head
was immediately struck off.
LONDON, Dec. 18.
Copy of a Letter from his Royal Hlghnefs
the Duke of York, to the Lord Provost of
Edinburgh.
" Tournay, Dec. 3, 1793.
" My Lord,
" I tike the earliest opportunity in ~.y
power of acknowledging the receipt of your
Lordship's letter of the Bth of Nov. and of
returning my sincere thanks, as well as tfcofe
ot the troops I have the honor to command,
for your very liberal prcfent of 5000 flannel
waistcoats, and a bale of socks. The infor
mation of this, as well as the several other
fuhferiptions let on foot in Great Britain for
the relief and comfort of the soldiers, has
been received by them with eve.-y sentiment
of gratitude.
" They have conducted themfclves, in all
the trials of the campaign, with patience and
with courage ; and I flatter myfelf, they will
never prove unworthy of the gv.-nerolity of
their countrymen.
44 i am, my Lord, yours,
FREDERICK."
To the rig 'it bon the Lord Provoji
of C5*V.
December 26.
Saturday, Lord Howe attended the board
of admiralty ; and it was yelterday confi
dently reported, that his Lordftiip had relign
ed the command of the Channel fleet.
By the American fbip Sarah, Capt. Jack
fen, jult arrived from India, we learn, in ad
dition to the India news received over-land,
that Marquis Cornwallis had taken poflefiion
or Chandernagore, as well as of five French
ih osin the river, fomeof which had nearly
eiiccted their lading for Eu-ope.
Tlieir names are Le Deux Amis, La St.
Dominique, Chundernagore schooner, and
Le Const ance and Nestor foows.
When the last packet left Oftend, the Hef
fiau troops were embarking\here to join the
Earl Ox Moira at Guernfev.
UNITED STATES.
NEW-YORK, March 10.
A letter from Niagaia, dated Jan. 29,
fays—Since writing the above, an Ex
press arrived from Detroit, brings the fol
lowing accounts, viz.—That the Indians
and American Army had engaged each
other; and, that the former loft 1500,
and the latter 800 men ; but the former
has fuffered a TOTAL DEFEAT.
' Col. England, of the 24th Regiment,
has sent down to know whether he is to
oppose the American Army or not, and
prevent them from building a Fort on the
River Detroit, as it stems they have
marched with that intention.' ,
A. B. Capt. Raton <wbo is arrived here,
left Hedii-£>uarters January 22.
Communication,
A correfpordent recommends to his
countrymen tiie perufd of thecorrrefpond
encies between our Executive and the
Enghlh and French Minifterßj lately
li'Vd by order of the House of Represen
tatives, and fold by Francis Childs, & Co.
Theie pamphlets contain, not only a state
ment of fadis and claims, in the contro
verts between the refpeftive nations, but
a fund-of diplomatic knowledge, very ufe
ful to Americans, who arc young in ne
gociation. Mr. Jeflerfon's letter on the
lubjeft of Mr., Genet's recall, has been
universally admired. Not lei's to be ad-
answer to• Mr.. Hammond's
ftatetnrnts, arguments
anl!wj • , the American Secreta
ry has an infinite advantage over his An
tagonilts. . , - • •. :<
n the
By this Day's Mail.
A'. W YORK March 12th.
By Captain Brooks who arrived here
on Monday from St. Croix, we learn,
that the Judge of Admiralty at St. Kitts
has declared explicitly that he will not
condemn American veffels,,under the new
inftruftions from the British ministry,
which wi re publilhed in yelierday's paper,
as he held them not binding upon him for
that purpose. This accotint confirms that'
from Mr. Clafon's Captain publilhed a few
days fin.ee ; and from the chara&er of
Captain Brooks and his supercargo, who
gives the fame account, we venture to pro
nounce the intelligence authentic.
At the fame time, we were aflurcd that
at Montferat, all American veflels arc
condemned, if they have on board any
coffee, sugar or cotton from the French
lflands y the judge being, as it is suppos
ed, concerned in the privateers that cap
ture them.
MORE OF TOULON.
REMARKS, after the abandonment
Amid the diverse pofikions of the fleet
during this night, either to be less exposed
to the fire of the enemy, or to facilitate
the embarkation of many families, who
came by droves, in boats, compaflion and
pity seized the hardest heart ; the most
;t(humane could not endure tlie cries of
many without yielding to their felicitati
ons. On this oceafion fathers called for
their children 5 husbands for their wives ;
and each one for. relations and friends.
Several plunged themselves into the sea,
to overtake the veflels which were getting
uuder way, a gieat number of whom
were drowned—some of them in despair,
seized their wives from their lying in beds,
to five them from the vengeful Infc of
their enemy.
This afpeft forced compassion even be
fore the hour of the horrid conflagration
had arrived ; all conduced with great se
crecy, not one of thofc fuccourt, which
could he procured for these unfortunates,
failed. They were all received on board ;
and there they had the consolation of fee
ing the rights of humanity fulfilled in their
refpeft.
To fee Toulon is to fee Troy; and the
comparison which such an afpeft causes
cannot be mitigated except by refledting,
that it is a punishment of God, fully me
rited by the henioufnefs of their crimes.
In fine, Toulon is loft—but it has not
been delivered to the enemy ! Nor' will
they find it more, nor the forts on the fea
(hores, which heretofore guarded the Me
diterranean coasts, and environs—and this
anfwars the fame purpose as if wc still held
possession. Madrid Gaz.
t NEW-LONDON, March 6.
Extras of a letter from Capi. T. Stillman,
J - J . M .
dated Moutferat, January 20.
5 " The most of the privateers of th
Engliih Islands have refortcd to this place
and made their Agent here, to bring in
qeutral vessels and Condemn them, because
they will not do it on the other Islands.
i find by examination that this is a law of
Montferat, and no where else. Veflels
coming- from England upon hearing of
this, directly come to this place, and feeing
thele Agents (whose names are Breeds)
tfcey immediately make them theirs also,
and then fail for Americans. Two such
have lately gone out, and have sent in
fcveral Americans who are condemned,
others are cruizing off Guadaloupe and
Martinique, and- may take the moll of
thf vefiels in those places, which we are
informed arc ail hundred In each of those
Iftands, unlas something is immediately
done.
" I would inform you that Capt. Let
ter of Norwich (whose fioop had been
taken and libelled) was on the morning
after his veflel was taken off by his mate
pitt into a most dismal jail among French
prifoher* snd negroes, but was by the pe
tition •>{ the Americans, liberated in three
day*i He is to wait for his trial till March
or April, and in. the mean time is without
friends, money or cloaths.
" This may give you some feint idea
of cur situation, and of our reception in
this place."
THEATRE.
OBSERVER No. X.
Mr. Fenno,
Last evening, the Player's at the New-
Theatre gave us the tragedy called Dougla/s,
and a comic opera called The Farmer.
The Observer noticed with great fatisfac
tion, the decorum and good behavior of the
persons in the Gallery; such gentlemanly de
partment does them much honor, is a credit
to their caiSitry, and such (hould be the con
ducSt of j yyil and free people.
The entertainment was, taking it together
good, The Observer asks the players a ques
tion, Is it impoffihle to speak louder, and to
articulate better > Mr. Whitlock, Mrs. Whit
lo'ck, and Mr. Fennel excepted, the a&ors in
the tragedy were not heard, so well as could
bewilhed. *
Mr. Moreton will do well to correct a ra
pidity in speech, which is a fault, peculiarly
so in him, as the Observer is led to believe he
can corredl it with cafe.
One word to the ladies apd gentlemen in
the boxes, who poflefs such extreme sensibili
ty, that in the middle of a tender and affec
ting'fentence or gesture, they are forced to
clap their hands like boy» in a mob. My
friends, your sensibility has an unnatural
mode of exhibition ; delicate sensibility, and
it would be infolentto suppose you pofTefled
sensibility without delicacy ; yes delicate {en
fibility, excited by grief, is rarely exprefTed,
by clapping hands.
The future numbers of the Observer, (hall
take up each acftor, and incident of the ref
peftive entertainments ; and in a few words
detail merit and demerit, notwitjithe cruel
ty of a critic or enemy, but with a kcred re
gard to truth.
**'■ Erratum'—in the poetry in yeftep
day's. paper, ioth line from the bottom tor
read move.
Mr. Madison's i clMutions wir; this day
takea up in th.- House of Reprefentativei
—the Houie in Committee of the whole
—A motion was made by Mr. Nicholas
to amend the second resolution, by stri
king out the words " Europe a nation*
having no commercial treaty with the U
ni'ted States," for the purpose of insert
ing " Gr.-.dt Britain." , The discussion
of this motion, took up the principal
part of the time, and was at length de
termined in the affirmative. No question
was taken on the resolution as amended.
By the latest arrival at New-York from
the Island of Jamaica, we are informed
that the inhabitants of Leogane have
signed a capitulatiop limilar to that acced
ed to by the inhabitants of jeremie. The
Britilh force at present there, is one com
pany of the royal artillery, commanded
by captain Smith, and a battalion compa
ny of th< 13th Regiment, by Captain
Bradlhaw.
The latest accounts from Jeremie,
which was in a state of perfect quiet, men.
tion that the Baron Montalambert had, in
the neighbourhood of Tiburon, given the
freebooters a severe beating, and driven
in their advanced posts.
SHIP NEWS,
The following is a hit of the American
vessels taken by the privateers belonging
to the Island of Aatigua, and carried in
there, all within ten days previous to the
16th of February, on which day Captain
Butler, who communicated this informa
tion, left that Island in the (hip Henrietta,
Capt. Houston.
Brig Governor Jphnfton, Andrews.
Brig Swan, MQleken, from Portland,
Cafco Bay. Schooner Ranger, Harrifoa,
from Edenton, N. Carolina. Sloop New-
York Packet, Shaw, from Charleston,
S. Carolina. .Schooner Whim, Orne, from
Matinique, bouud to Salem.
Schooner Essex, Lee, from Bilboa.
Scooner , Hodflcifs, from Balti
more. Sloop Nancy, Hill, froip Rh&de-
Island. Schooner Hawk, Dunham, from
Charleston, S. C. Schooner President,
Bull, Charleston. Schooner Bet icy,
Williams, fro/n New-York. Brig Nan
cy, Ilfington, from Wilmington, N. C.
owned in Portland, Cafco-Bay. Schoon
er Lydia, Wefton, y from Plymouth.
Schooner William Lindfay, Williams,
irom Norfolk. Schooner Success, Soame»
from Boston. Schooner Molly, Dilland,
from Guadaloupe, bound to Wilmington.
NEW THEATRE.*
TO-MORROW EVENING,
March 14,
Will be performed,
A COMIC OPERA—Called
ROBIN HOOD,
Or SHERWOOD FOREST.
RefeJents in the Forejl,
Robin Hood, Mr. Darley.
Little John, Mr. Wigncil.
Scarlet, Mr. Francis.
Bowman, Mr. Wan-ell.
Archers, Meflrs. Bliffett, Warrel.jn De
Moulins, Lxe, Bason, &c. &c.
Allen-a-Dale, Mr. Darley,jr.
Stella, Miss Willems.
Shepherdesses, Mrs. Bates, Mrs. Cleve
land, Mrs. Rowfon, Mrs. De Marque,
Mrs. Finch, and Miss Rowfon.
Visit ors of the Forest.
Rutteken, Mr. Bates.
Friar Tuck, Mr. Whitlock.
Edwin, Mr. MarshalL
Clorinda, Mr 9. WarrelL
Annette, Mrs. Francis.
Angelina, Miss Broadhurft.
With the Original Overture, by Baumgar
ten. The reji of the Mujic and Ac-
companiments composed by Shield ; with
additional Airs, by Mr. Reinagle.
With New Scenery, Dred'es and
Decorations.
The Scents, defignrd and executed by Mr.
Milbourn.
Books of the Songs to be had it the Theatre.
To which Will added—A Comedy, called
The LIAR.
Old Wilding,
Young Wilding,
Sir James Elliot,
Papillion,
Miss Grantham,
Miss Godfrey,
Kitty,
Mr. Whitlock.
Mr. Chalmers.
Mr. Cleveland.
Mr. Finch.
Mrs. Francis.
Mr«. Cleveland.
Mrs, Row Too.Philadelphia, March i, 17^4-
JUST PUBLISHED,
y MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market Jlreet,
1 HE FIRST VOLU ME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography :
OR, A
Hiflorical, ana
Commercial Grammar;
Aiul state of the several
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAINING,
!. The figures, motions, and distances of
the planets, according to the Newtonian sys
tem and the late ft observations.
2. A general view of the earth, considered
as a planet; with several ufeful geographical
definitions and problem';.
3, The grand divisions of the globe into
land and water, continents and islands.
4. T'.ic firuation and extent of empires,
kingdoms, state*, provinces and colonies.
5- Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, metals, minerals, natural curi
osities, seas, risers, bays,capes, promontories,
aud lakes.
6. The birds and beasts peculiar to each
CO»n»rv.
7. Qbfervations on tbe changes that have
been any where observed upon the face of na
ture since the mnft ear|y periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations ; their
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
nues, taxes, naval and military strength.
9. The genius, inanneis, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
10. language, learning, arts r fciences,
manufactures, and commerce.
m. The chief c'ties, (Iruftures, ruins, and
artificial curiolities.
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
diitances of principal places from Philadelphia
To which are added.
1. A OeoqrapHi cal Index, with the names
and places a)p. abetically arranged.
2. A Table of the Coins of all nations, and
their value in dollars- and cents.
3. A Chronological Table of remarkable
events, from the creation to theprefent time.
fly WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Astronomical Part corre&ed. by
D Rittenhousk.
To which have been added,
The 'ate Discoveries of Dr. Herschell,
other eminent Astronomers
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION*
Corrected, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The fir A volume contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, befldes two Agronomical Plates,
Viz.
t. Map of the world. 2: Chart of the world.
3. Europe. 4. AHa. 5. AtVica. 6. South-
America- -7. Cook's difcove' ies. 8i Coun
tries round the north Pole. 9. Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway. 10. Seven United Pro
vinces. x» Auft' ian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. 13. Seat of war
in France. 14. France divided into depart
ments. iS- Switzerland. 16. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
18. Tm key in Europe and Hungary. 19. Ire
land. 20 Weft-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22. Ar
millary sphere. 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
the press, \wll be given the following M»ps :
1, Ruflia in Europe and
2. Scotland.
3» England and Wales.
4. Poland.
5. China.
6. Hindoftar*.
j. United, States.
g. Britilh America.
q. S'ate of New-Hampshire.
,0. State of Maflfachufetts.
ji. State of Conne&icut.
,2. State of Rhode Island.
,3. State of New-York.
,4. State of New-Jersey.
State of Pennsylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19* State of Kentucky.
20. State of North-Carolina.
21. Tenneflee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia.
TERMS.
t\ This work will be coraprifed in two vo
lumes.
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (56 cents for boards )
3. They may receive the fucreeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finifhed, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The fubfeription will be raised on the firft
day of June 1794, to fourteert dollars, ex
clusive of binding.
5. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
6. The names of the fubferibers will be pub
liflied as patrons of American literature,
arts, and sciences.
It it wholly unnecefifary to expatiate on the
advantage.to American readers, that this edi
tion poflefles, over every imported edition of
any fvftem of Geography extant. The addi
tion of maps of the several state , procured at
a very great expense, and from the best ma
terials that are attainable, fpenks such full
conviction on this fubjedt, that it would be
difrefpeft to the reader's understanding to
fnppofe it requisite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
similar work have such maps, been ever intro
duced.
The emendations and additions which are
made in this work,v'e innumerable,and occur
in every page. The public are referred to
the preface for a (light (ketch of a few of
them.
The publisher takes the present oppoi tu
nity of returning his nioft sincere thanks to
those refpc&able characters who have favored
him with documents for improving the maps
of several of the ftatcs. He reqnefts a conti
nuance of their kindness; and hopes that luch
public spirited citizens, as are poflelTcd of li
miUr documents, will favor bim with their
afliftance in perfecting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he has been favored, has excited
in his bread the warmed sentiments of grati
tude—sentiments which time will not efface.
He pledges himfelf to the citizens of the
United States, to spare neith r pains nor ex
pense to'-ender the present edition o! Guthrie's
Geography improved, deserving of their pa
tronage. waftf
NORRIS-COURT,
Back of the New Library, between Chefnut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the business
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-Hunters,done, in tlie moll
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR »A 1. E BV
M.Carey,No. 118,Higb-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Saying * and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the world.
THIS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all cladcs of people, merchants, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
woik acquired, that it has palled thro three im
prcflions in the eastern dates, and many houle
holders deem it so ufeful as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theii families. Pr ice 23.
February 4. Dll
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Peterlburg in Rufiia,
And .now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-street.
diw^tawtf
j Martlt4, 1794.
War Department.
January 39th 1794.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military invalidsof the United State&,that the
| sums to which they are entitled for fix months
of their annua] pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on the sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Commiffiouers of the Loans
I within the dates refpc&ively, uuderthe usual re-
gulations.
Applications of executors and adminiflrators
must be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpfftive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prefidcnt
of the United State*,
Sectetary oj IVtir.
03" The printers in the refpe&ivc dates are
requested to publilh the above in their newspa
pers for the space of two months.
[anuary 30.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortment of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY &Jine CUTLERY,
Which they will dilpole of on the most rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, done as usual.
December 24.
AVIS.
LE habitans in fortunes dc la ColonieFranpife
de St. Domingue qui' dans I'inccndic du
Cap font venus chercher un afilc dans les Etats
Unis font tnforrnes que la R6publique leur ac
cord* un paflage pour France. lis font invites
en consequence a fe presenter a cet effet d'ici a
huit jours chez les Consuls & agens de la Re
publique dans les different* Ports des Etats Unis.
A Philadelfhie, fe xo Ventos—l'an ad dc
la Republique une & indivisible.
(28 Fevrier, 1794. rreuxfiile)
— .... _I. U R6p , .
-•»-» Z7 "X"
Lc Mmiftre Plcmpoteiuiare dela K
Fraiifa rfe.
JH. FAUCHET.
The editors of naufpafers in the United States are
requejled to insert the above notice in their paper. 8t
JuJl Imported,
From London, Diiblin, and Glasgow,
By MAT HEW CAREY,
No. 118, Marlet-Jlreet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Regiiterfor 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and Tall of the RomanEmpirfe
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vo ' s *
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty,a collection of essays
Varieof Pruflia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
Ruflell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Briffon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travete in Spain
Taflo's Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of BnfFon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's-dfcfoription of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston 011 masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kisses of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engraving'
Downmah's infsmcy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immareriahfm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of V oltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grower's delcription of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godxrin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's lketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. &: Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallieon the prevention ofdifeafes
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Rulfia,Poland,&c.
• Cox's travels into Switzerland
, Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advic* to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid-
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases oft Minorca
Innes on the mufcks
Pottos works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's dissertations
London practice of physic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
H. KNOX,
dam
m.w&ftf
By MATHF.W CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery:
Designed to exhibit in a new point of view,
its effe&s on morals, indujlry, and the peace of
ocicty. Some fa&s and calculations are offered
to prove the labor of freemen to be much more
produflive than that ot flares ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in propottion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor; and hence the Dfctfily conclusion, that
slavery is impolitic as well as unjufi.
dtf
publtque
February 15.
And now opening for sale,
FOR SALE,
Pric* a$ Cents.
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends anci
the public, That from the encouragement
he has received, from feverai refpeftable Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in ihr*
PAPER LINE —and would offer his fetvicea t«>
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidence
in him ; and he assures those who employ him,
that their confidence (hall not be misplaced;—
but it shall be his conUant endeavor, to pay the
ftri&eft attention to their best interest, in aline
gociations whatever. He hiS taken the Chamber,
in State-Street, over Mr. David Town/end, Watch
Maker's Shop.— —Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of all kinds, are bought and fold ; and
where Commiflion Bufiuefs of all kinds, will he
tranfa&ed on reasonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be constantly exposed for sale, on
comrnillion.
* # * Cash paid for Salem, Providence, and
Portsmouth BILLS.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York, has any Bujinefs to tranjafl at Boflon,
in Paper Negotiations, he will be huppy to be em
ployed on commijfion.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794.
Fifty Dollars Reward;
ON the 31ft of last month, the fubfcribrr ad
drfifed a letter to MiflVs. Thomas Pearjall
££ Son, merchants in New-York, and irtclofed
therein a bank note, No. 445, for, twenty dbUr
lars ; one ditto, No. 151, lor thirty dollars 9
and one ditto, No. 3,866, for twenty dollars.
—He also add re (Ted a letter to Mr. Gilbert
Saltonjiall, merchant in New-York, inclosing »
bank bill, No. 148, for fifty dollars, indoifed
on the back thereof in theft words—"Pa) the
within to Mr. Gilbert Saltonjiall——Eben. Hunting
ton.''—He also addressed a letter to Messrs. Whiti
& Wardell, merchants in New-York, and inclo-'
fed a bank bill for ten dollars, and a draft in fa
vor of said White & Wardell, which letters were
put in the Poll-Office on said 31ft January, to
be forwarded to New-York : But by letters re*
ceived from the Gentlemen to whom they were
severally addressed, the money was robbed
from each letter before delivery.
The Public are requested to endeavor a de*
teftion of the Vlllains who committed the above
jobbery. The bill indorsed, I think was a York,
bank bill, and some others, one or more waft
of the United States bank, remitted at Philadel
phia. Any person discovering the Thief, and
returning the Money, ftiall be entitled to fift/
dollars reward.
EBEN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, 14th Feb. 1794. 3w3taw
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENFIRONS:
Taken from altual survey, by A. P. Folis?
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS Plan will be engraved on a plate 26
inches square ; and it vrill contain an ex
act description of all the squares, ftr< ets and
alleys in the City and Liberties. The situation
of the several public buildings, such as the State-
H®ufe, CUy-Hall, Scat of Congress, Churches, 1
Meeting-Houses, Hospital, Library and Semina
ries of Learning—of the several Banks, and of
the Federal and State Offices, will be afccrtained.
The parts which are built on will be diftinguilh
ed from those that are not. The courses of
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended to connetf the
navigation of these two waters, as lies within'
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a*
view of the shipping in the harbor, and an ele
vation of Congress-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In (hon, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and desirable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power :
and it shall be compleated with the greatest
possible dispatch, as soon as the generous encou
ragement of fubfenbers shall infyre to the author
such a sum as will be to defray ex-
pences.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the Subscribers names, and information con
cerning the polic#, population and present ftitc
of the city.
The price to fubferibers will be Two Dollar*
and one third, to be paid at the time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Subscriptions will be gratefully received at
the principal Booksellers »u this city—and the
original Draft may be seen at B.'Da vies'.
No* 68, Matkr t-ftreet, at any time udtfl it shall
be put into the hands of the Engraver.
Feb. 28,
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Coffee-Houfe of this
City :—
RB.SPECTFUI.LY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippen-Strect, be
tween Third and Fourth-Streets, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly improved, and is now
very commodious ; where he hasturmfhed him*,
fell with ihe beQ of LIQUORS, and will fur.
ni(h a TABLE for Parties, with the bed provi
sions the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
(horteft notice. From his long experience in
this line of business, he flatters himfelf he (halt
be able to give fat<sfa£tion to all who may plea(e
to favor him with their company.^
Philadelphia, January «9»i794-
PHILADELPHJA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
ui w&Of
mSrthif