evening a dvertiser.
[No. 28 of VoJ. V.]
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Sunday, Odtober 13.
Barrere presented, and ihc Convention
adopted tbe following Addrrfs :
Adddrefs to the Army of the Weft,
" Republicans, rebellious Lyons is
subdued. The army of the republicans
has entered there in triumph. At this
moment it is cutting in pieces all the trai
tors. It will not spare one of these vile
and cruel satellites of despotism. And
you, likewise, brave soldiers, you will
gain a viflory. La Vendee has already
too long harraffed the icpublic; march,
(hike, finifh.
" All ourenemies ought to fall at once,
every army marches to conquer. Will
you be the lart to -eap the palms of vic
tory ? Merit the glory of having exter
minated the rebels and saved your coun
tiy. Treason has no time to ast before
the impetuosity of courage. Rulh upon
these insensate and ferocious bands, break
them in pieces, let each of you fay ' "To
day I annihilate la Vendee," and La
Vendee will be ftibducd."
Address to the army of the North,
Peronne,
" The atmy of the Republic has en
tered in triumph into Lyons. Tfee trai
tors and the rebels are cut in pieces. The
standard of liberty is displayed ou its
walls, and purifies them—sure presage of
victory.
" Victory belongs to courage, it is
yomsj strike exterminate the fatelites
of tyiants. Base cowards! they have
never known what it is to conquer by
force and by valour ; they have purchas
ed their conquests by treason ; they are
covered with your blood, and particular
ly with that of your wives and children.
Strike, let none efeape your just ven
geance i the country has its eye upon
you i the Convention seconds your ge
nerous ardour ; in the couife of some
•days, tyrants will be no more, and the
.Republic will owe to you its happiness
aud glory." Vive la Republic.
A deputation from the popular Soci
ety of St. Vincent of Nantes, exprefled
their sorrow for the removal of General
Aubert-Dabayet and Canclaux, at the
inomentthey wereobtaining vi&oiiesover
the rebels. The Convention decieed,
that the petition (hall be referred to the
Committee of Public Safeiy 1 that the
commiflioners are auihorifed to make the
neceflaryrequifitions for fupplyingNantes
with provisions; that the tequeft of the
petitioners to be present at the inquiry
into the conduct of the two generals shall
be granted.
Letter from Dubois Craßce, and Gau"
thicr, Representatives of the People
with the army of the Alps.
Lyons, October 9.
" The army of the republic this day
entered into Lyons without any oiforder,
and crowned its glory by acts of humani
tv. No person had reafoa to complain
of an injury ; and, notwithttanding their
fatigue and their necessities, the soldiers
stared their bread with the unfortunate
victims of aristocracy. The rebels escaped,
as 1 forefaw, on the mod favourable
quarter, by Vaizes, to the number of
about four thousand men, with the artil
lery and the caiflons richly loaded. They
were surrounded ; our troops puifued
them, and killed Ijoo; 60 or 80 were
taken prisoners, among whom was the
Marquis de Virien, Ex Constituent .•
their artillery was also taken, of which
one caiflon was filled with gold. The
remainder of the rebels escaped, but they
are pursued and not one will reach the
frontiers. We are informed that the
Convention icealls us; we hasten to
obey. Our conduct is to undergo an
examination ; this we solicit as a favour ;
•it will prove that we have never deviated
from the principles of good republicans,
and that we have never capitulated with
ibe rebels."
Duboii-Crance dates in hit dispatch,
€><wttr of (VBiiitrt J^faleg
that he knew the quarter most favourable
for the retreat of the rebels. Why then
said the Secretary, who read it, did he
march the troops to a different quarter. I
demand that the letter be referred to the
committee of public fafety.—Adopted.
Letter from General Verdelin, comman"
aer of the troops in the territory of
Fauchigny, dated from Salanches, Oc-
tober.
"Having re.ceived information that the
enemy were fortifying themselves at tile
bridge of St. Martin, and had already
surrounded the post of Mirebelle with en.
tienchments, 1 immediately marched in
three columns; after an obstinate engage
ment the enemy is disconcerted, and dri
ven from their entreuchmets, were com
pletely routed, and being unable to rally
tliey retreated in the greatest disorder by
tl>e pass of Bonhomme, leaving behind
them a great number of their men, who
had gone astray in the mountains.
" Our loss has been very trifling ; a
mong the killed there is one officer. The
loss of the enemy has been very conside
rable. All (he heights of Mirebelle are
Itained with their blood and strewed with
their dead. We have made two officers
and fifty Piedmontefe, regulars, prison
ers of war.exclusive of a great number of
Rebels, who having been taken in arms,
were ftiot according to law. The regu
lars were received with fraternity, by the
soldiers of the Republic. One three
pounder, three other guns of smaller ca
libre, several tumbrels and 2Q,000 car
tridges have fallen into our hands. We
have this inliant discovered, after a care
ful search, the four pieces of cannon that
the enemy had buried near Notre Dame
de la Glofge, and which the quickness
of the pursuit did not leave them at liber
ty to carry off with them by the pass of
Bonhomme."
Letter from Andre Demont, Reprefent
ativeof the People, in the Department
of Le Somme, and the vicinity.
Peronne, Oft. 11.
" I refervedthiscity as a bonnebouche.
I relied upon finding patriotism in Pe
ronne, but what was my astonish
ment to find here a new Coblentz. The
Marquis of Robecourt was mayor. The
city was under the influence of that Mar
quis. The other magistrates were no
better. I aflembled the people, nobody
offered to denounce the difaffefted. The
mufcadins alone raised their voice. I de
clared with the poignard in one hand &
the torch in the other, that I was going
to proclaim the city in a Hate of rebel
lion. I aflembled the people a second
time ; in order to (Irike the blow I had
the patriots around me, but iu a small
number. I repaired to the municipality,
where they denounced to me the trai
tors ; the people cried, Vive la Repub
liqiie, Vive la Montagne. The traitors
are arretted. The Marquis de Robe
court, and all those who resembled him,
are removed. 1 have nominated good
Sans-Culottesin their ttead.
" An aid-de-camp, aged eighteen,
has been lurprifed writing to the emi
grants. He told us, that his dear mam
ma had advised him to this step. The
dear son, and the dear mamma have been
arretted."
1 lie Member) composing the com
mission of monuments, wrote from St.
Dennis, that if the tombs of the Kings
had not yet disappeared in the church of
St. Dennis, it was on account of the
necessity for saving the public finances;
that they thought proper to make out an
eflimate of the mod indispensable expen
ces for preserving the works of art which
these tombs contain; that all the tools
had arrived at St. Denis, and that to
morrow the hammsr would destroy the
remains of royalty.
Deputies from the twenty-eight fec
tionsof Bourdeaux declared their adher
ence to the events of May 31, and June
2 ; they invited the Convention to re
main on their poll, and to deliver up to
AND
Tuesday, January 14, 1794.
the sword of the law all traitbrs and con
spirators ; they added, that all the men
and money of Bourdeaux Wert at the fer
rice of the Republic, and that a tingle
order would be fufficient for all the men
in arms to fly to the frontiers.
A letter from the commissioners with
the artny on the coast of Rochellej in
formed the convention, that the armies
of Niort and Saumur had had a most
bloody battle with the repels, who had
been completely routed on the 9th. Their
force, amounted to about io.doo men,
had been difpei fed over an extent of coun
try of more than 30 miles. A party of
Wefiermahn's detachment had entered
Charillon, and liberated tbo prisoners.
The opposition of the rebels, the Com
miliioners affirm, was at an end. In the
battle several Republicans were killed, a
mong the rell the biave General Cham
bon.
The committee of Public Safety pre
sented a short report, which contained
only these words—* 1 Thirty millions arc
necelfary for a secret and mod important
expedition."
The National Convention, without a
ny debate, parted a decree, ordering the
sura required to be delivered to the com
mittee.
LevafFeur, commissioner at Beauvats,
announced, that tranquillity was rcftortd
there.
Barrere read a letter from General
Dagobert, who informed the conven
tion, that the army under his command
had entered Spain* and taken the town
of Campredon.—During the period
granted to the Alcalde Major of the city
to reply to the filmmons to surrender, the
Spanish troops fired upon the meflenger
who carried the summons, and contin
ued also their fire upon the troops of the
republic.—lt was therefore resolved to
storm the city, which was effc£ed with
success. The inhabitants fled with pre
cipitation, and were pursued to a great
distance. It was not possible to lay the
city under contribution, for the houses
were entirely destitute of inhabitants.
The commissioners of the Convention
wrote from Bagnols, dated O&ober Bih,
that the vi6tory of Argelles had pro
duced an immense booty. The garrison
of Callihoure it encamped on the heights.
The Spaniards sent the flower of their
cavalry to attack them, but in vain.
They loft 300 men, and 15 taken prifoi*-
ers, of.whom two are colonels.—The
French had 60 men killed or wounded.
They found at St. Genies an bofpital for
800 sick. The SpaniHi at my is in the
moil dismal situation, afraid even of at
temptinga retreat.
Prifux and Hentz, being returned
from La Vendee, repoited that the mea
fures taken by the committee of public
fafety were the only ones proper to be a
dopted. General L/Echelle was arrived,
and had taken upon him his command —
The fame commiflioners a flu red the Con
vention, that it was right to have cashier
ed the Generals fufpe&ed of incivifm,
who paralyzed the army, and obtained
fuccefies by halves, in order to mask the it
treachery.
Monday, Oflober 14.
Romme, in commifiion with David,
forcollefting all the articles that may be
ufeful to the arts and to public iutlruc
tion, announced that they had discove
red, in a private house, 42 volumes of the
correspondence of marshall de Bclleifle,
containing valuable details on the ma
rine and the art of war ; from theft it
will appear, said Romme, that the Mar
shall de Bclleifle had long since forefcen
all that Montalembert had since found
out. The commitee of Public instruc
tion were charged to remove tliefe vol
umes into the bureaux.
A letter was read from General Gal
bos, which confirms the intelligence an
nounced yelterday of the viAory gained
in La Vendee.
Tuesday, Oflober ij,
Barrerc read a letter from Couthon
[Whole No. 486".]
and Maigfteli, dated Ljront, O&oher I f.
They announces that they re-eftablifherf the
patriotic municipalities in their fun&ionsj
the popular society is reinilated J a mili
tary commiflion has entered upon its of
fice, and it consecrates its firlt time to
the trial of four aid-de-camps, who are to
be efcecuttd on the nth. The difaim
•nf» began, and a committee of vigilance
has been created. The rebels being
piirfued, & are icdilced to 306, who fled
into the wood, arour.d which the tocsin
has reurlited 6000 men, who will do juf
ticeto them. It is laid that fevcra'l ct
the chiefb, conscious of tbe impoltibility
of their bfing saved, have (hot them
selves J and it is thought that £rcffy is
of the number*
RIOTS AT BIRMINGHAM.
BIRMINGHAM, October 2
It being within one week of the tirfie
when the present Constables go out of
office, and there remaining between fix and
leven hundred pounds uncolle£ied of the
firft payment towards the damage done h<f
the rioters in July 1791, on Monday af
ternoon, Mr. Barrs, one of the Conftablesj
went, with proper afliftanCe, to distrain,
at the house of one Wood, in Litchficld
ftreet. Wood refufed to pay the sum he
had been afTefTed, and behaved very impro
perly ; a considerable concourse of people
instantly appeared at the door, and became
so disorderly, that the officers Were obliged
to delict ind retire.
Before fix o'clock many hundreds wertf
afTembled, palled through many of the
principal streets, and became so turbulent
that the (hops in the High-street were all
(hut up; from thence they proceeded to
the New Churcb Yard, where, counte
nanced by a number of idle fpeftators,
they prcfently demolifiied the windows of
Mr. Barrs the Conltablc.
. The magistrates appeared and read tlie
riot-a<3, and a party of the d regiment
of dragoons were ordered oiit from the
barracks, and directed to disperse the mul
titude; they l'nftantly rulhed amonfft them
with their drawn swords, wounded five or
fix, took twenty-four into custody, aiid
fafely lodged them in the dungeon.
The riot-aft was read three times in the
course of the evening, and the troops pa
raded the streets all night.
Encouraged again by the idle and the
curieus, to whose presence all the mifchief
of a riot is generally owing, early vefterday
morning, the rabble threatened to refirtfe'
those in the dungeon, but had not then
the hardiness to attack a military guard.
At nine o'clock in the morning tbe ri-'
ot ast was read at the Welch Croft ; and
about one in the afternoon, the prifoncs
escorted by a party of horse, were bro't
before the magistrates, when ten weft d'.[-
charged, and fourteen remained for fur
ther examination. A military guard con
tinued on duty in the streets during the
whole of yesterday, and in the evening a
nother party of the fame regiment arriv
ed in town from Wolverhampton.
After a very turbulent day, in which
crowdi of people were continually fraver
fing the streets, and all business in a great
measure iufpended, at ten o'clock iaft night
an attack was made on the dungeon, to
refcoe tbe prisoners, when the goaler found
it neceflary twice to dilcharge a blunder
buss, by which three were wounded, ami
the crowd mllantly dispersed. T*vo of the
wounded were taken to the hospital, or.f
of whom is said to be in so dtfperate a
state, that is either dead of dving
the recovery of the other is vety uacer
tain.
One of tbe men wounded on Mnru'nv
night, had yesterday a piece of l>is fiuill
removed, which was fraffcurrd hy a ftrojtc
with a sword.
Half past one o'clock in the afternoon.
—All is now tranquil; afiother party of
soldiers are coming from Kiderrm'nher,
and 12 or 14 of the prisoners are lull ta
teu before the Magilliaies.C.ONGRESS
In SENATE,
Friday, January 3
A motion wit made and seconded, that
the Secietf'V of the Treafjty lay before
the S.-ndTeth-e following returns, to v. it:
A fhtemcnt of the goods, wares ar.d
meivlftjulife, exported from the fevtral
from the ift of July, 1792, to the
ift'ufjuly 1793. fpecifying the quanti
ties and value of each kind, and tlii fevcr
ru countries to which the fame ha»e res
piclivelv been exported.
A ftitemeot of the goods, wares and
ntrchandife, imported into the Several
States for the fame period, fpecifying the
quantities, and the prime cost, and dutied
value of each kind, and the several coun
tries fiom which the fame have rcfpeilive
1\ I lv.i inir.il ltd.
A statement of the tonnage of foreign
vtil'els entered into the several States dur
ing the fame period, fpecifying the several
countries to which the said reifcls reipedt
i.J; 1 . I."'
A !l .t.Mnnit of the ton.iaye 1 the Uni
ted States' vessels, entered into the fevers!
States during the fame period, diilinguifli
ing those employed iu the filhcries, in the
coailing and in the foreign trade, and fpe
cifving the fevcral countries from which
the Said Vcflfels employed in said trade
tamo.
Op.dered, That this motion lie for
Consideration.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock on
--Monday morning.
Monday, January 6.
The Senate met agreeable to adjourn
ment> and on motion,
Adjourned to 11 o'clock to-morrow
morning.
Tuefdav, January 7
The following written messages were
received from the Prelident of the United
by Mr. Dandridge his Secretary.
United Stales, Jtnuary 7, 1793
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
of the Hot.fe of Rrprefentanves,
Experience has (hewn that it would be
ufeful to have an officcr particularly churg
ed, under the dire&ion ff the Depart
ment of War,with the duties of receiving,
fofe-keeping, and distributing the public
fiipplits, in all cases in which the laws and
the course of service do not devolve them
upon other officers; and also with that of
fuperinteneing in all cases the iflues in de
tail of supplies, with power, for that pur
pose, to bring to account all persons en
trulted to make such ilfues, in relation
thereto.
An cftablifhmcnt of this nature, by se
c uting a regular and pur&ual accountabi
lity for the ifiues of public supplies, would
be a grtat guard against abuse, would
tend to ensure their due application, and
to give public fatisfaftiou on that point.
1 therefore recommend to the confider
ption of Congress, the expediency of an
c.lablifhment of this nature, under such
repxlatioos as (hall appear to them advife
sble.
G. WASHINGTON.
United States, "January 7, 1794.
Genii'mm of the S:nal <*, nnd
of tlx House of Rrprefcntatives,
I lay before you an official (latcment of
the' expenditure to the end of the year
1793, from the sum of ten thousand dol
lar, granted to defray the contingent ex
pences of government, by an act palled
on the 26th of Maixh, 1790.
G. WASHINGTON.
The messages and paper referred to in
the last recited mefTage, were severally
read.
Ordered, That they lie for considera
tion.
confidcration of the executive
hufinefs.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow mcrning.
Wednesday, January 8,
On' motion,
O*DEtED, That the. message of the
President of the United States of the 7th
instant, refpeiting \he ufefulnefc of an of
fcer particularly charged with the duties
. receiving, fafe-kieping and diftobuting
1 < .-üblic lnpplie* in certain cases, be re
' to Mr- EUfworth, Mr. Taylor and
* 'dley, to consider and report there-
Scuale.
Co 'igrejs of ike United Shiles.
Ifolj'e of ReprefcntJt'wa
Monday, Jan. 13.
A report was received from the Secre-
tary of 'the Treasury, containing a ftate
inent of the actual ton-age employed be-
tweei) the United States and foreign coun-
tries, for one year ending Sept. 30, '793
Mr. Shei bourne called up the petition
of Thomas Manning, prefentcd lait week
—he observed that the fotts set forth ia
the petition were ellablilhed by documents
which accompanied it. That the petiti-
on originated in a contract made by the
petitioner with an agent of the French go
vernment in Martinique ; that altho' that
government had recognized the powers of
their agent, and the performance of the
services which were the groundof the con
trail, they had refufed to fulfill it, but by
a payment of affignats, instead of specie,
which had been particularly fpecified.—
He obferred, had the contrail been made
with an individual, a process in a judicial
court would have procured an indemnity,
but it was with a nation, over which ju
dicial courts had no controul ; the petiti-
oner therefore could derive no redress
but from tile juflice of his country, which
was bound to protect the rights of its ci
tizens in ail cases, and when it could not
prevent an injury, it ought to repair the
damage. That this in the present cafe,
might be done with a moral afturance of a
rcimburfement, as it would be a just arti
cle of charge in the account of the Uni
ted States against France, to which jus
tice mull chearfully give its fan&ion, and
which in happier times, that government
will undoubtedly allow. That as the jus
tice of the demand was confelfed, indem
nifying the petitioner would be advancing
a payment for France, for which her cre
dit and honor were pledged, but which the
present situation of that country would
not at present allow her to make ; but, Mr
Sherboume observed, that as the cafe was
of the firft impression, and he wiihfd there
be a thorough investigation of prin
ciples as well as facts. He moved that
the petition with the documents accom
panying it, might be referred to the Se
cretary of State—This motion obtained.
The report on the petition of Henry
Hill, in behalf of himfelf and others, was
read and taken into consideration, and af
ter fomc debate wa3 laid on the table.
The house then, agreeably to the or
der of the dav, went into committee of
the whole, Mr. Trumbull in the chair, on
the report of the Secretary of State, re
lative to the situation of our commercial
1 elations with foreign countries.
The refplutions proposed by Mr. Madi
son fume days since, founded on this re
port, were read by the clerk.
Mr. Smith S. C. rose. He hopedthat
it would be in order to take into view the
general scope and cenor of the \vhol« body
of resolutions before the committee.
Amongst the variops duties of the iegi
ilature under the constitution, none ap
peared to him more important than those
which had for object the regulation cf
commerce, as they must involve th» consi
deration of a great variety of interells.
These interells open a copious field for
discussion, as they affe& the agriculture,
navigation and manufactures of this coun
try—this being considered, the committee
he hoped would, viewing the importance
of the fubjeft in the fame light he saw it,
excuse him if he took much of their time
in adverting to a variety of fadts connec
ted with it.
As the committee were on the report of
the Secretary of State on a commercial
fubje£t he ihould not go into political con
siderations which might by some be consi
dered as in a degree connected ; he hoped
other members would lee the propriety of
pursuing the feme plan. It would argue
a diltrult of the strength of the ground on
which the resolutions proposed, Hand, if
the advocates forthofe resolutions permit
ted themselves to recur to politics to sup
port them. He imagined it would be
right to dismiss the consideration of all
questions' relative to Indian?, Algerines
and Western pcfts at the present time.—
There will be a time, and perhaps not far
distant, when these questions will coir.e
under consideration, when this happened,
he said, he fhodd be prepared to give his
opinion, with firmnefs and according to
what he conceived the true interefti of the
country : but these fubiefls he conceived,
not properly connected with the prelent,
which gives of itfelf fufficient scope for
argument, he (hould not therefore mix
The present is a delicate crisis; this coun
try, since the'fcvoliition has probably never
been in «b critical a situation : the fubjefl
ought then to be weighed with calm reflec
tion and deliberation, passions should not
'be fubllituted for reason, and the decision
oughtnot to be founded on narrow or pre-
jud'eed views.
Tlie report of the Secretaey of State
is before the committee, it gives a compa-
rative view of our commercial regulations
with other countries and invites us to reta-
liatiou. The moll striking contrail there en
deavoured to be established is between the
fyllepis of France and Great Britain ; he
(hould proceed he said, to lay before the
committee an accurate statement of cer-
tain facts with which that reportbeing com-
pared it would be seen whether there is
lolid ground for the inferences endeavour-
Ed to be eftablilhedin it.
To view the fubjeft clearly it will be ne
ceflary to advert to the situation of affairs
before the revolution of France, the coin-
mercial regulations of that country since
that period having been produced by mo
mentary intereils, Tome of which are not
to be mistaken, are not therefore such facts
as the legislature (hould proceed upon.
He produced a table, made he said, by
a gentleman of commercial knowledge,
comprehending a comparative view of our
commerce with Great Britain and France
before the French revolution. With a view
to conciseness the scope of this table has
been confined to those articles which are of
consequence in our trade. We are accus
tomed to hear continually the generosity
and liberality of the French towards us
greatly extolled, and the conduct of Great
Britain as severely reprobated; it might
therefore be expected that this table
would contain instances of advantages al-
lowed on the one hand and reftrirtions
laid on the other; but the reverse of this
expectation, he said, will be realized. It
will be found that in France and the
French Weft-Indies, we are not more fa
voured in refpeft to our exporis than in
the British dominions except in the not
very important article of fifh oil; this Mr.
Smith, requested the committee particu
larly to notice; and that Great Britain and
her islands hold out to us leveral advanta-
ges, in refpett to our exports, not enjoyed
by other nations, that are of very great im
portance. Mr. Smith (S. C.) was pro
ceeding to read the table when Mr. Ma
dison rose to aflc what period it relates
lo.j Mr. Smith informed him that it was
built upon the state of things before the
French revolution.
Mr. Smith then read hi 6 table, through
which it will be fuflicient to follow him,
when he commented on it. Having men
tioned the authentic documents, on which
it is founded, such as proclamations of the
King of Great Britain and statutes of
their Parliament on the one hand, and ar
rets of the French Government on the
other, he proceeded to make some obfer
\ations on the principal exports from this
country.
FLOUR the article of firft importance
among our exports, is more farorcd by
Great Britain than France. France laid
a duty of one-eighth per cent, on it, and
no more on that imported from other na
tions. Great Britain lays a duty of 24/3
per quarter, until British flour rises to 50/",
when ours pays a duty not above 6i.—
The fame system as to grain prevails ge
nerally in Great-Britain. Both these
countries are good flour markets only in
times of fcarcrtv, when, the British mar
kets are high and the duties low and the
French not able to supply enough for
their own consumption, for when they are,
our flour will not pay freight and chatrges,
this will appear by attending to the price
of that commodity. The average price
in France, in abundant ye:rs, is 5 dollars
and 2-3 per bar. of Penn. It ought to
be fix and a third in France to bear expor
tation from Pennsylvania.,
France will generally produce enough
for her own consumption, wljile Great Bri
tain, it appears by a report of a commit
tee of the privy council is likely to be
incompetent to her own l'upply, which
may render her market Ik real's er better
1 for that article. '
France lays no duties of any confe
rence on our flour, because they have no
fear of our importations rivalling the sale
of their own.
In the Weft Indies, matters wear a dif
ferenta fpett. France prohibited the im
portation of onv flour there by apetmanent
law. To be sure the colonial governments
had the power to enaa temporary fufpen-
Aoiii of this law, bat thefc were oa!y ex-
ceptionsto the general rule and are not to
bo. calculated upon. He believed the Se
cretary of State mistaken in his aflertion,
that latterly the prohibition had been ta
ken off, unless he applies his observation
to a period subsequent to that to which
his report extends. There was, he wsb
told, an arret in 1789 directing a suspension
for some parts of the islands but it was
soon after repealed, in France, as he has
been informed.
In the Britifli islands this article stands
upon quite a different footing. Our flour
may be imported free of all duties, and
other foreign flour cannot be imported
there, even in Britifli bottoms.
He proceeded to give a view of the
operations of these different lyitems 111
1786, and 1788.
In '86 we exported to France 21 bar
rels only ;to her colonies 1808. In the
fame year, to Great Britain none ; but to
her colonies 45,1 18 barrels.
[11 '88, to Fiance, 2375 ; her colonies,
235. 111 the fame year to Great Brirain,
828, to her islands, 59,938.
Here then is a prodigious difference in
favor of the system of Great Britain, in
the article of flour. It is true that in
1791, '92 and '93, there were very large
exportations of this article to France and
her islands ; but as this was the effect of
the convulsed situation of that country,
it is no criterion to build upon. The Se
cretary of State is of thii opinion ; he
does not think it right to found calcula
tions upon any other than the former fet
tled state of things.
(Speech to be continued.)
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 14.
ExtraS of a letter from John Bulkelry and
Son, of Lijbon, to a mercantile house in
this city, dated Lijbon, 28/1b OS. 1793.
" We have the pleasure to fay, we do
not find the Algerines have captured a
single American, numbers having arrived
here, at Oporto, Cadiz, Bilboa, &c. and
it is with infinite pleasure we acquaint you,
that the truce in question was mere the
result of an unexpected event, than any
studied plan of this cabinet, who, so far
from approving of the consequences, have
taken measures to protest your trade, and
have actually dispatched a frigate to their
squadron in the bay of Gibraltar, with or
ders to examine at sea every prize, and all
that (hall be found bound to the ports of this
kingdom are to be set free, and the Alge
rines not to molcft any of them in future
at sea; and this government has appointed
a convoy to protest the fifteen American
{hips now here, to a certain latitude,
whencc they will proceed home free from
the Algeriiies. So that the apprehen
sions we were under, in the firft instance,
are now nearly removed, as there is little
or no rifle to any of your vessels coming to
this port, on which we heartily congrstu
late you."
ExtraS of a letter from Hugh Goadan and
Co.of Lijbon, dated 31/Of!. 1793.
" Since writing this day, we have it by
a public edict on 'change, that the court
of Portugal have finally determined to pro
test all American Ihipsdeftined (with pro
per customhouse clearances) from your
ports to any ports in this kingdom, and
have ordered a small fleet on the coast to
protest the fame ; and we alio leam by
the arrival of the Andromache frigate from
Cadiz, that the President, of Baltimore,
from Philadelphia to Cadiz, is said to b«
taken by an Algerine gun-boat of fix guns
the 26th inft.
ExtraS of a letter from Lijbon, oSober 3 I/?.
" This goes bv the American vessels
that fail with convoy granted by this court,
who have finally determined to protest all
American vessels destined with clearances
from your to any port in
Portugal, and have ordered a fleet on the
coast to protest the fame."
Bank of North-America, 13 t'n Jan. 1794-
At an annual eleftionheld this day for
twelve Directors, the following gentlemen
were chosen :
John Nixon, Jofiah Hewes, Mordecai
Lewis,. TJiomas Fitzfimons, Benj. FulleT,
Wm. Smith, George Latirrur, Joseph
Swift, Robert Wain, Miers Fiiher, John
Morton, Richard Rnr.dir.
To the Crcdn rs oj tbe Vrcnch Krpublic.
(t> SUCH perions as are Creditors of
the Republic of France, for fupplieb fold
to their commifiioners in the Weft-India
i (lands, are requested to meet at the City-
Tavern, on Thursday evening the 16th
inft. to consider of the belt means of mak
ing application for payment of their r»>
fpeclive debts.By the Ship Wafbington, Capt.
Sylvejler, arrived at New-
York from Cork, Irijh papers
are received to the /\th Nov.
from -which the following
extracts are taken :
WEISSEMBOURG.
Report from the Head-Quarters,
14th Oft. at 1 o'clock in the,
morning.
The enemy are defeated : the lines both
at Lauterberg and Weiflembourg, are
.aken by aflault. We have taken three
redoubts, belids coloujs, small arms, &c.
13 pieces of cannon, .with their horses,
.[id 700 prisoners ; witfl streak of day we
ire going to pursue the enemy farther.
BRUSSELS, October 22.
The great and bloody battle which
tiould have crowned all the former vidto
rics of the campaign, and from which we
expe&ed such brilliant fiiccefs, was fought
on the 15th and 16th init. unfortunately
to the disadvantage of the combined ar
mies.
You will have seen what the government
h?8 thought fit to tell the public, in the'
official bulletins. But the fatts you may
be aflured, are such as I have stated.
The loss of our army is 5000 men kil
led and wounded, among whom are 115
officers. The prince of Anhalt-Kauthen,
who commanded the dragoons of Cobourg,
on the left, was struck down by a {hot,
and it is not known whether he fell dead
or alive into the hands of the enemy.
It is now certain that the defeat of the
left wing of prince Cobourg's army, com
manded by Tertzi, and Hohenloe, was
the principal cause of the loss of the battle,
which obliged the generals to retreat in
the night, to avoid being precipitated into
the Sambre.—The retreat was effected in
good order, and the army, is now encamp
ed along the other fide of theViver, partly
under cover of the' furtreffes of-Quefnoy,
and Valenciennes.
The regiments of Brechianville, Stein,
Knunitz infantry, ICavanaugh, Cobourg,
Barco, Royal Allamande cavalry, (a
French regiment that came over with Du
mourier) have fuffered the moil. That
of Kavanaugh had 213 men killed, and
180 wounded. The loss of the other re
giments was in the fame proportion.
The French attacked us in all points at
once, with from 70,000 to Bo,oco men,
commanded by General Jourdan; Gen.
Dupont commanded their right. Le
vafleur ar.d Bentahole, the two Represen
tatives of' the people, appeared sword in
hand at the head of their combatants,
whom they animated with loud cries of ex
hortation to advance, and as loudly me
naced, when they seemed to hesitate.
Behind their firft. line, an immense number
of women, without fear or disorder, sup
plied the foldiere with ammunition, diftri
bnted brandy among them, and cairied off
the wounded: such were the means by
which they obtained a victory over our
brave and veteran tioops.
The cor.duA of the Dutch troops in
tins action is strongly talked of. It is very
confidently affirmed, that Byland's dra
goons fled outright, and left one of the
flanks of the main body, which they were
Rationed to cover, quite exposed ; and that
three whole companies went over to the e
nemy.
The Englifli, who came up juil as the
battle was beginning, were not in a condi
tion to display their accustomed valour and
intrepidity. They were exhausted by the
fatigues of a forced march of nine leagues.
Their cavalry were so out of order, that
they were unable to act.
The day before yesterday 400 French
prisoners, and 39 waggon loads of the
wounded arrived here. The night after
came a convoy of 52 waggons, v ith the
wounded of the regiments of Cobourg
and Kaunitz : and yesterday morning 68
vaggons, with the wounded of several o
'ier regiments. Where to lay these un
jrtunate victims of war we know not.—
All the hospitals and all the convents are
already full. Lint, bandages, and atten
dants on thcfick, are advertised for. On
Saturday last the general return of the
Auftrians wounded in the Pays Bis, was
The Prince of Saxe Cobourg writes in
strong terms of the danger to which A itf
trian Flanders is now exposed ; thatwith
out a reinforcement of jo,ooo men at least
He cannot answer for maintaining his pre
- "t position ; that he expects to he attac
ked in a few days ; and that the Frcnch
have augmented their army of the north,
to 170,000 men. He complains of the
Dutch, and even of the English. The
inflant that troops arrive here they are-sent
to join the army; as are all the (lores and
ammunition, which arrive in quantities al
most incredible, from Holland.
On Saturday morning an officer arrived
here with the important intelligence that
Gen. Wurmfer, on the 13th,attacked the
lines of Weiflembourg, with the Aultri
ans and Heflians ; that after an action of
11 hours, the lines were forced, and the
French camp behind them attacked by as
sault ; that the Duke of Brunfwiek hav
ing turned their army attacked them at
the fame time in the rear ; that the car
nage was dreadful, more than 14,000 of
the French and Auftrians having fallen;
that Gen. Wurmfer took poflefiion of
Weiflembourg and Lauterbourg, and pnr
fued the French to the gates of Straftnirg
—that 168 pieces of heavy cannon, all
their baggage and ammunition, with 2900
prisoners were taken from the enemy. The
Auftrians had 3 joo men killed. The
number of wounded is not yet ascertained.
We are assured that Landau has offered
terms of capitulation, which the Pruflian
General, who commands the siege, has re
fufed ; and that Stralburg will surrender
on the firft appearance of an army before
NIEUPORT, October 23
The attack which the Carmagnqls com"
menced yesterday upon our town, and
which continued to-day, would certainly
have reduced the place, but for the inun
dation, which though very unpromising at
firft, about five o'clock in the afternoon,
began to succeed so well, that at fix the
whole flat country around the town was
overflowed about two feet high, and we
saw the Carmagnole with a great deal of
difficulty wading through the encircling
flood. As the next tide, which comes in
to-morrow morning about four, will raise
it at least two feet higher, we are pretty
sure that the Sans Culottes will move off
during the night, as quiet as poflible; and
we are in hopes that they will not be able
to save their artillery, which, as far as we
already know, consists of four twelve
pounders, and four howitzers.
This attack was, no doubt a part of an
an extensive plan, concerted by the com
mittee of public fafcty, to fall at one and
the fame time upon our whole chain of
positions from Nieuport to Maubeuge ;
and if pofiible, to strike a grand and de
cisive blow before the end of the present
campaign. As far as it concerns Furnes
and Nieuport, it was executed in the fol
lowing manner:
The Carmagnols advanced yesterday
morniug in two columns against Fumes,
the one from Hondfchote on the cause
way, the other from Dunkirk, along the
canal, which goes from this place to
Fumes; each column consisted of obout
300 men. Our corps polled at Furnes
was about 1 zco men strong, but strange
to tell, had not one single cannon. Four
companies of the Legion de la Cha.rte,
who formed our advanced guard near Bul
lerlkamp, fought with the greatest gal
lantry, and out of eight officers, five were
wounded. The great superiority of the
enemy in number and artillery obliged our
troops about two o'clock to fall back.—
They retreated in good order to Schar
, (hoot. Our garrison was by this retro
gade movement encreafed to about 1000
men, but we had on our ramparts not
one heavy cannon, and our whole artille
confifted of a few fix pounders and field
pieces.
The Sans Culottes made their appear
' ancc before our town yesterday evening,
and began to treft a battery near the Pe
lican, and situated on the right fide of the
canal, about half a mile from Nieuport.
; We fired a few (hot against the battery,
' but without efFeft. This morning at half
part nine o'clock, a French tnimpeter ar
rived with the usual fuir.mons, wherein
the commanding General of the Carmag
nols allowed our Commandant, the Hessian
Colonel Wurmb, a quarter of an hour to
consider on his proposals to surrender.-—
The answer was, that the garrison were
determined to defend themselves to the
last extremity.
At twelve the cannonade began upon
the town, and unfortunately the very firft
(hell thrown into the place, fell into a bay
loft near a diltillery and set it in flames,
which threw all the inhabitants into the
utmost conftcrnation. We returned the
enemy's fife 2: well as we Could, but, hav
ing no heavy cannon, and feting no pof-
Ability of laving the town by: any other
means, but -that of inundating the sur
rounding country, the neceflity of our
situation forced us to adopt it.
A little after three o'clock the firlt
sluice was opened, but with so little effect,
that, despairing of success, our Command
ant gave orders, that whillt the cannoneers
and a part of the garrison continued firing
upon the enemy, the rcit lhould begin to
file off towards Oftend.
A great part of the garrison had alrea
dy left the town, when, about four o'clock
the opening of the second sluice having
been effc&ed, the inundation aofwered
onr moll sanguine expectation. The troops,
which were on their march to Oftend,
thcu received orders to return, and an of
ficer was fenr to General Ainflie, with the
important i; « s of our unexpe&ed relief;
whiltt from our ramparts we enjoyed to
fee the corifternation and fright us the dif
appointcd Carmagnole banditti,, wading,
to and fro through the encircling
like so many ducks, without knowing on
which fide to turn to effect.their escape.
The fnbjoined copy of the summons,
sent us by the Gciu-ral of the Cnrmr.gnols
is taken from the original, and is highly
worthy of the perlon who penned it:
To the Inhabitants of Nieuport,
" The 2d day of the Ift decade of the
2d month of the 2d year of the French
Republic, one and indivisible.
(This is October 23.)
" I summon you to surrender your
selves immediately to the victorious arms
of the Frcnch Republic, before wh ch e
very thing mult yield : and that fix citi
zens repair to my camp ; —in failure of
which, surrounded and attacked as you
are both by sea and land, your town lhall
be laid waste, and I will enter it over the
fmoaking allies of your houfe3, and .the
palpitating remains of your members.
" Let the example of Furnesbe a warn
ing to you not to rely on those who call
themselves your defenders; and who ca
lumniate us, becjufe we beat them.
(Signed) " The General commanding
the advanced guard of the
F i ench troop 3 before Nieu-
port.*'
TOULON.
From the camp under Oilioules, Oft. 8,
Th.e enemy this night surprised one of
our redoubts under favor of the treachery
of some Marfeillois, who deserted to them,
and gave them the watch-word. The
corporal of the poll having advanced in or
der to receive the rallying word, was kil
led ; and the guard, who were alleep, have
been mr.ffacred. Some companies of Mar
feillois charged their fulils, which tendec
only to cncreafe the disorder and butch cry
by firing on the guard of our battery fron
some mills, which they took for the ene
my;
The intrepid ChafTcurs of Burgundy
immediately advanced, on an afiurance
being given them that the poll was retaken.
They were aflailedby a ihowerof mufque
try, which they answered with courage ;
but were obliged to yield to numbers, after
leaving 16 killed and wounded upon the
spot. In the number of the latter is the
brave Malathie, a Captain, who, urged by
his courage, has been taken prisoner.-—
Several of our Marfeillois fled to St. Na
aire.
This defeat is principally to be attribut
ed to the cowardly grenadiers of Mont
Blanc, who fled firft.
The enemy .feeing that it would be dan
gerous to remain much longer matters of
the redoubt, which they had surprised,
spiked our cannon and mortars, the moun
tings of which they burnt, and retired.
Bruflels Gazette, Oft. 30.
ANDERNACH, Oa. 19,
An officer has this moment palled here,
charged with dlfpatc'nes to the Prince de
Cobourg, containing an account of the
surrender of Landau. He faid,that when
he set out, Strafburg was entering into a
capitulation. We are a (lured that the
French have retiredto theeuvirons of Col
mar.
LONDON, October 30.
Parliament is further prorogued to the
loth of December next.
The Flanders mail arrived this morning,
and has done away all the reports that had
been circulated of Oftend feeing in the
hands of French. '
f Mr. Mason, one of the king'* meAcn
gers is am red with dispatches frcm the
Earl of Yarmouth, which cor.tair.slhc in*-
rcYidered to the tombtoed tmiei, ai&l thslt
deputits fVdm tlic nttuiicipslitT at St
burgh were then at Head quarters Uipii
lating the conditions on which that jh.ee
(hould be also delivered up. The tvooit
of this courier adds, that in this qi.artcr
the armies were proceeding frofti victory
to victory, and they expe&ed to be in im
mediate poflliSon of -all Alfaee : The ar -
mies were divided into four bodies', ur.dcr
four different Generals, to make th? attack
on Fort Lours, and every other important
fortrefs, at one and the fame time.
The news from the interior of Frp.rce
is of a more unpleasant nature. The R«- \ -
alifts-*in La Vendee have been again rout
ed, and Chollet, and another place in the
vicinity, taken by the Republicans.
Mr. Drafting, the meffeoger, arrived a£
so this morning, with dispatches from i re
Duke of York, by which we learn \\r.-X
the invasion of Flanders by the French :s
happily and seasonably checked. His Roy
al Highness made a rapid march to the ie
lief of the potts, and has encamped near
Tournay. Bodies of tro6ps arc also cA
their march from the Piinccof Cobor. :,
whose head-quarters arj now at Bavav.
We may therefore with '•or.fidence nfl 're
our readeis, that Austrian Flander, isf.
Mr. Mason came from the Head Quar
ters of his Royal Highness the Duke of
York, which he left on Saturday. Thcfe
were then at Tournay. The Head Quar
ters of tlie Prince of SaxeCobouvg at Ba-
No general a&ion had then taken place.
There had been fume (kirmiftiing between
the advanced partiesof the two armi< s. It
was fnppofed to be the intention of ii'.i
Royal Highness to march to the relief of
Oftend and Nieuport.
The French were Hill before Nieuport
on Sunday, and the place had been cn fire
in several places ; but there was no doubt
Entertained of its being able to hold out
till a reinforcement could be mad-' to the
garrison,
There is a letter 111 town from Nev-
York, which Cays that, by a late arrival t
that place, intelligence is received, that
Toulon is retaken, and a number of s
01 the line capturcd by the French—tlvt
the Duke of York and h:s army are takeii
prisoners, &c. aid that great coinuhosi
prevails iu England, &c.
Capt. Culver in a flbop belonging to
this p.i:t, is arrived at Reedy Island, in a
(hort passage f.-om Havre de Grace, with
dispatches for Government.
CONGRESS
The coniideration of the important
business before the committee of the v. hole
house yellcrday, was relumed this dy.—
Mr. Madison replied to ivlr.W. Smith , —
his fpeeeh continued till the time of ad-
journment
SHIP NEWS.
PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
CLEARED.
Ship Juliana, Ingraham,
Clermont, Stewart,
Brig Ranger, Dryburgh,
Salenie, Waflon,
Mary, Cufhing,
Schr. Nancy, Stilwcll,
Sloop Polly, Bartlett,
Sally, Griffin,
Yesterday morning arrived here the
brig Mollv, Capt. Rafer, in 14. days from
New-Providence, haviug been carried 111
there bv a privateer. The (hip Olive-
Branch, of New-York, which had been
likewise taken and fentin there, trfasaftei
wards, bv the negligence of the priv -leer's
crew, materially damaged i:i her i-r", in
consequence of which the Captain deli
vered her up to the captors.
The picce Jigmd " Homo'* i+r.
pulfi/bed immcduitziy afar it uuis rrceiiuL
PRICE of STOCKS.
Philadelphia, January 14, 17V-V-
18 r
6 per centa,
lof to ic/l
I if
U. S. Bank, I 2 p?r rent, idvance.
N. A. ditto, 1- ditto d.rtr.
Pennfv'nania do. J ditto qiU>>.
u:
Charlcfton
Do.
St. Domingo
Do.
Havannah
« Hilpaniola
Charlcfti.n
N. YorkADVERTISEMENT.
Firjtnia, hot tkumbeiLndi §uri\ % Dec 28, *793-
FOR SALE,
V Valuable 'i ratt of LAND,
I V irt r .his coi.nl), containing about eight
bun r. aerr>, one touith ol which is low
giorindf, of excellent quality; ih» other three
t rjrrhs •$ high land, well coveted with o:»k,
hickory anu chc fnui.
•T fit nation i« pleasant and heal'hy, on Yco
eomic'" river, about three nuha from the Poto
rr.ark There «s on it a iwu (lory hrtck dwel
ling house wish tour roonn and a p«(T->gc on
crl' Pi »o», exi lufivc of closets ; a ®oorl kitchcn,
.nd othei nccrfTny out-hoi|f # Ic ha»oichards
or apole and p ;ich tiees, and it weil walcied
,hy many dHi.jh'ful springs. The trrtnj may be
known on application to the Honorable JOHN
JItATH, in i'ntladclphia, or 10 the fjblcriber,
hvmgon the prcmifes.
;o. "Aif IQHX r.ORDOV.
This day is pubhjhed %
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 11 8, MA RKfcT-*T R FIT,
(Price a quarter dollar)
A short account of ALGIERS,
C"n inii'id it dcicription of the rlunaic of that
ro? ihc manner* tnd cuftorm of tnr in.
e, arid of ihcr levrral wars aga-nft Spain,
'. Hi*!...:;., Holland, Venice, and other
iOoc, mm the ufuruation of Bar-
c 'un;: y -
habitant:
Franc*',
b»ro{T« and ihe iß.vafion of the Emperor Charles
V. to he orelent time; with a eoncife view of
theotigi'i of the iruptuie beiwt-cn ALGIERS
and ihr UNITED STATES.
J*" Q-
Insurance Company,
Philadelphia, January 6, a 794.
XTOTICE is hereby p.ven io the members
1\ o r the Insurance Company of North
America, that the have declared a
di v de-.d (for the last fix mo iths) of six PtR
c&nt, on the amount of the firft and fecoixl
lriOalments ; and of one per cent per month
on the sums paid in anticipation of the third
instalment, calculating from the si ft day of
the month following rhat, in which th<>fe pay
ments were mad-*. The dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders, or their representatives,
at the company's office. No. 119 south Front
ftreet, at any tiitie after the 13th instant.
By order of the D rr&ors.
EBKNEZER HAZARD, Secretary.
J an - 9- w&f.im.
Treasury Department,
NOTICE is hereby giv< n, that proposals will
be received at the Office of the Secretary
of ;he Treasury, until the 6h of February ncx*.
iiwlufive, for the fupplv of all Rations which
mav be required during the prefi m \c»r, at the
fcvrral places of rendezvous hereafter mention
ed, tor the Recruiting Service, viz.
At New-Brunfwick, in New-Jerfcy;
At Philadelphia,
At Lancaster, v in Pennf) lvania.
At Reading, )
The rations to be furnifhed are loconfiftof the
following articles, viz.
One Dound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or £ of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rutn, brandy or whiflty,
One quart of fait
Two quarts of vinegar(
Two p ,und, of fo,p (P" 100 ritlon '
One pound of candles )
Jan. q,
CASTELLI,
Italian Stay and Habit-Maker,
ENCOURAGED by several Ladies of Phi.
ladelphia, now in New-York, has remov
ed from thence to this city, in Cooper's Court,
No. 35 nortU fid'e of Mulbery street, between
Front and Second ; where all kinds of Stays
are made-—as Italian shape, French corset,
English, Silk turn, Rid>ng, Suckling stays, Sec.
A'lo ? Lad's' Habits, Surtouts, Gowns, and all
kinds of dreiTes for balls, completed in the
oeweft and mod elegant fafhion.
Any ladies in New-York and Charleston,
who may wiih to employ him, and will be
pleaded to fend their measures (hall have their
work finifhed with the utmost neatness and
dispatch.
N. B. Sa'd Caflelli has an apartment of
ready made stays to felL
3t *
Jan. 7,
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldfmitbs Jewellers,
No. 42,
IOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortment of
SILVER y PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY Ss"Jine CUTLERY,
Which they will difpole of on the most rta
fonahl* terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
fetr, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, dor>« usual.
December 24.
NOTICE.
BF.ING defirou, of doling various commer
cial concerns, and Ihil all powen hereto,
lore grimed relaiive to the fame fliould be re."
vokrd, and public notice of it given, 10 prevent
anv P"Bible m.stake ; I, the fubfenber, do here,
by make known 10 all whom it mav conccrn
that all powers and letters of attorney, ot every
natuie and exicnt, granted by me 10 any person
or persona, prior to the ill day of July latt, to
afl for me or in my name in Atsiaica, arc re
voked and made void.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
New-York, Jan. i, 1794. dlw
Excellent CLARET,
In hog(Vcads and in cafc* of 50 bottles catli.
ALIO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipea, hoglhcads and quarter ca(ks,
FOR SALE BY
No. »m, South Froni-iireei,
dtf
N O R R I S-C OU RT,
Back of tlic New Library, between CUefnut
Jan. », 1794.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the bufinrft of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-(hutters, done in the most
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, drf
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
M. C A R E Y,
By
No. 118, MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuable colle&ion o(BOOKS,
imported from London in the Mohawk.
Dec. 19.
Robert Campbell,
No. J4, South Sectnd-jlreet,
Secondduor below the corner of Che fnut-ft reft,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the l»te arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general AJJbrtment of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be difpo/ed of on the lowest terms.
mw&f tf
D;c. 23.
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given, that there will
be paid at the Bank, alter the sixteenth
instant, to the Stockholders or their reprefen
tarives, duly amhorized filteen dollars and
fifty cents for each (hare, being the dividend
declared for the last fix months.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at th«
fborteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chaiis, and harness
ofevery description, in the neatest and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
fa wifiF.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaftion to those who please to employ him.
He has for Tale, several carriages almost
finished, such as eoachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phzton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
Carriages fold on Commifiion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794. mfrt3m
MONEY borrowed or i«aned, accounts sta
ted or collefled, employers suited with
domestic!, houle rooms, boarding and lodging
irnted, Ut or procured—soldier's, mariner's
or miluia men's pay, land, anal claim, on the
public ; (hares in the banks, in iheciqalt, md
the turnpike road ; certificates granted by the
public, and the old and late paper monies;
notes of hand, bills, bonds and morgages, with
or without deposits—Bought, fold, or cero
ctated at No. S, in south Sixth-street, below
Marker-ftrert by FRANCIS WHITE,
Whotranfaas business in the public offi.es for
country people and others, by virtue of a pow
er of attorney, or by perfoaal application.
December 11. j
ALL persons having any demand again#
the Estate and EfFe&s of Mrs. MARY
SINDREY, widow, late of Frankford, Ox
ford township, in the State of Pennsylvania,
deceai'ed; are desired to produce their a*!
counts to Jacob Leshir and William Ckud,
(in Frankford, aforefaid,) Executors and Ad
min iftrators of the above in order far feitle
ment. And whoever is indebted to said Es
tate, &c. are requeued to make payment to
the aforefaid Administrators, on or before the
i*th of March, 1794, or they will be dealt
with according to law.
mwjrftf
Frankford, Dec. 16.
Stock Brokers Office
No. 16, Wall-Qrett, Niw-Yokk. '
THESubfcnh.r intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, beg. leave ,0 of!
frr his ferv.ee,to h„ friends and others, in t he
line ol a Stock Broker. Thnfe who may please
to favor him with their business, osay depend
upon having „ tranfaficd with the uimoft fide.
lity and difpaich.
Order, from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
«her partof the United State,, win be Rriftl,
attended to. LEONARD BLSECKER
JOHN VAUGHAN,
and Walnut-Streets.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cashier,
t&ftf.
Just Imported,
Frtm London, Dublin and Glasgow ■,
And now opening for Jale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jlrut,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following
NE':V Annual Regiiter for 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester focicty, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter aud spirit
on christianity
Disney's life #f Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty, a colle&ion of essays
Varieof Pruflia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintoih
Ruflell's ancient and modern Europe
I-anghorne's Plutarch
Eleganr extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extra&s of natural history
Saugnier and Briflbn's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadruped!
Button abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in, 3 vols.
Curiouties of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Profent state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kifles of Secundus
Gallery of portrait;
Volney's ruins of empires
Travels
Vaillaint's travels, with superb tngravings
Dmvnman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immaterialifm
BerchoJd's advice to patriotic, travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Veltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's defcript-ion of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on politicaliuft'cc
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's fetches of the history of maa
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignui
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs ol'the Cromwell famiFy
Playhouse di&ionary
Reveries of fofftnde
Smith's theory of mora} fentimenta
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Pbilip lid. & lIId.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called I
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruflla,Poland, &c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&ice of mid
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
Cleghorn'i diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mufclfs
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qnincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh difpenfatoty
Lewis's difpenfatpry
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's dissertations
London practice of phytic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
(O" Terms of Subscription for tht.
Gaxette, art Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of perfont
who reside at a diflance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place ofpublication.
Mvertifementi of onefquare, or left, in
fertedfour times for One Dollar—once, for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Centi each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line, and Subscrip
tions, will be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourth-Jlrtet ,five doers f wrth of the
Indian
E. Oswald,
No. 15$, Market-Sfceet, South,
A T the requefc of a number of friends,
proposes publishing The Independent
Gazetteer, twice a week, vix. Wednefdavs
and Saturdays— to commence in January next,
it fufficient encoeragement offers
It will be published on Paper and Types
equal to its present appearance. The sub
scription dollars per ann.
Advertii'ements not exceeding a fc]aare,
will be inierted 4 times for I dollar—every
continuance one fifth of* a dollar. Those »x*>
ceeding a square, in the fame proportion.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE undernamed committee, appointed bv
" THE SOCIETY for the INSTITU.
TION and SUPPORT of FIRST-DAY or
SUNDAY SCHOOLS in the city of Philadel
phia and ihe diftrift of Southwark and the
Northern Liberties," to solicit further fubfenp
tiona for the support of the fchooli which the
'° c "'y cftijyhfhed, take the liberty to
represent to their fellow citiaeos—
Tfcat, although the fchooW were suspended
during the period of the late awful calamity
with which our «ity and suburbs have been af
flifled, they are now again opened for the free
ad million and education of poor children.
That, the neceflity and rtafona for the eflab
lifhment *f these school* are increafrd, from the
circumstance of the late distress having left a
number of Orphans deUitut* of all the means
of education, save what the hand of benevolence
may administer.
That, former experience has, mod pleasingly,
verified the fondeft hopes of the friends of this
institution, with regard to the progrefa and ad
vancement of the children, who hav* heretofore
been under its care, in the ufeful branches of
education which it has afforded. Referring to
this fact, and to the address to the public, on
this fubjr&, pubhfhed in the newspapers of thia
city >n the third month last, when about eight
hundred and twenty children of both sexes h*d
partaken of the benefits afforded by the society,
and about three hundred and twenty mora were
then actually receiving inftru&ion in their
schools, it now only remains to be observed,
that the funds of the society are greatly infuffi.
cicnt to carry on their benevolent designs, and
that the committee formerly appointed to solicit
fubferiptionf, conceived it neciflWy to decline
k- r a PP'' ca^®n * lo iheir fellow-citir.ens for
their afliftance in favor of these schools, in order
that theie might be no interruption from them
to the solicitations then made in behalf of their
iflifortunate brethren from Cape-Francois.
The public aid_is now therefore e.arneftly so
licited to eftablifhmenr, cal
culated upon thf^rfheipleiof public and pri
vate good. TUV annual fubjficription for a mem.
her is but Otje Dollar; ajid it is prefumcd thai
so small a sum per annum cannot be better di£
posed of, by those who can afford it, than by
bestowing it as the price of the diffufion of ufeful
knowledge among the p«or and friendlefs.
Subfcnptipni and donations will be gratefully
received by the undernamed committee on be
half of the society:
Pet er Thorn pfon, Ebenecer Large,
Thomas P. Cope, Jacob Cauftnim,
Joseph Price, James Todd,
£f)ward Pule, Jofcp.h Janscs,
James Hardie, Jonathan Peorofe,
William fnnia, George Meade,
Benjamin Say, John Perot,
Nathaniel falconer, Jqhn M'Gree,
Francis Bailey, Robert Ralfton,
Jcffe Sharpleft, } Thoroaa Armw,
Samuel Scotten, Gc.rge Williams
Peter Barker. Jan. 1,
ADVERTISEMENT^
P*OR the benefit of those nrho maybe con
cerned it may not be improper to (jotice,
that the United States, by their Art of the lath
of February 1793, ordered t(iat all Clai ms ot*
the description therein mentioned, and which
originated previous to the 4th of March 1789:
be profented at the trealury on or before the
firft day of May 1794, otherwise they will
" for eyer thereafter, be barred, and exclo
" derf from settlement or allowance." And
as there may be several Creditors of the Uni
ted States, holding Certificates or other Se
curities, which form a part of tbe Domeftit
Debt, and who wifli tq fu'ofcribe to the Loan,
they are reminded that the term for receiving
fublcriptions at the Treasury, is by tbe Art of
the United States, pafied the ffecond of March
last, extended to the last day of fnne, 1794*
The following is an extaft front the Art of
Limitation above referred to :
Sictjqn I. "Be it enarted by the Semite
and House of Representatives of the UniteJ
States of America, in Congress alfcmbled
That all claims upon the United States, for
Services or Supplier, or for other cause, mat
ter or thing, turnifhed or done, previous t*
the 4th day of March I 789, whether founded
upon Certificates, or other written documents
from Public Officers or otherwise, which have
not already been barred by anv Art of Limi
tation, and which ftail not be presented at
the Treasury before the firft day of May 1 794,
(hall forever after be barred and preferred
from settlement or allowance : Provided
that nothing herein contained, ftiall be con!
ftrued to assert Loan-Office Certificates, Cer
tificates ot Final Settlements, Indents of lts
tereft, Balances entered in the books of tbe
register ot the treasury commonly called regis
tered certificates,loans oi monies obtained in
foreign countries, or certificates issued purfg
ant to the Art, intitled u An Art, making pre
vision for the Debt of the United States.
PHILADELPHIA :
P*i»tkd iy JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
Suulh Fourth-Street.