evening advertiser.
[No. 55 of Vol. V.]
Vo the Militia Officers of Pennsylvania.
HTM IE Officers of the First Division
of the Militia of the State of Penn,-
fylvania, are requeued to meet at thePhilo
fophical Hall, on Wednesday Evening, the
lath instant—To receive and take into con
sideration the Report of their Committee on
thefuhie<£fc of the State Law, as it now stands.
Such other Officers of the Mititia of Penn
sylvania, as may be in town, are. requested
to attend said Meeting; and should any of
them be at the trouble of committing their
thoughts on this very important fubjedt to
writing, they will be gladly received and
duly considered.
These obfervatinne are intended to be laid
before a Committee of the Aflemblv, who
appear to have every disposition to bring for
ward as perfetfl a System, as the Existing
Law of the United States will poflibly ad
mit.
WALTER STEWART,
Major-General ifl DiviHon
d3t,
Feb. ro.
To be Let on Freight or Charter,
or for Sale,
The Ship
J|& HERCULES,
-c 7 Samuel Chauncy, Matter,
ii*"cclcu to be ready in a few days rr> receive
• Cargo on board, at Hampton Road, in Virginia;
is an American bottom, burthen 500 tons,pieiccd
for 20 guns, quite new and wcU fitted.
Apply to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
Philadelphia, February 4, 1794. dtf
THE Trufteesof an Academy,
or any individual wiihing to engage a
perlon to superintend the Education of youth,
in the comfe of studies usually adopted iu
Academics, or any biflnch of business requir
ing similar qualifications, may open a com*
municarion with a person willing to be em
ployed a few years (for a generous compensa
tion) by writing (letters to be post paid) to
Mr. John Fjenno, Philadelphia.
(£3T Printers to the Southward would pofjibly
tbfigc font of theirfriends, by injcriing the foregoing
* few times in their papers.
dxzt
Frhrtiary 8
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfVeads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Chatnpaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
dtf
No. ui, South Front l^reet
frn. a, x 79 4 ■
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —alio a Country Seat
within 6 miles of* the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size or convenience/
f'<v terms apply to the printer,
January 2\
City Commissioners Office,
January 30, 1794.
JN pursuance of a Kelo v«. ot the Common
Council, dated the 201 h day of January,
*794» r dividing the City into five Diflrifts,
bv lines dihwi) East and Weft, whereof each of
the City Commiflkwiers is to take the fuperin
tendance of one of the laid DiUr&s, and to be
accountable tor the cleaniiug, good order and
regularity of the fame.
The Commiflioners have accordingly made
the following arrangement for the prefect :
Dijlrift the iji. Nathan Boys, to have the
chaige of that part of the Arrets, lanes and alleys
from Ctdar-ftrcet, to the north fide of Spruce
lb ert.
Dijlrid the 2d. Hugh Roberts, from the north
fide of Spruce-ftreei to the north fide of Walnut
ftreel.
Dijlrift the %d. Joseph Claypoole, from the
north fiae of Walnut to the loath iidc of
ftrcet.
Dijliifl the \th. William Moulder, from the
north fide ol High, to the nofth fide of Mulberry
Arret
Dijlrid the sth. Nicholas Hicks, from the
north lide of Mulberry, to the north fide of Vine
ftrcet
F.xt' afl from the Mirtufss,
JOHN MEASE, Clerk.
N B. The carnage way in Market-street, is
under the charge ol the Commiflioners generally,
for the prefent,the foot-ways on the north and
south fides thereof, are conne&ed with the ad
joining Diihidl* rvfpedlively.
d tije knifed Ipfati^
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City and
oj thf Merchant*s Coffee-Houfe of this
City :—
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he ha» THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippin-Street, be
tween Third and FOurth-Bireeis, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly improved* and is now
very commodious; where he has fut nifhed him
fclt with the best of LIQUORS, an.! will fur
nifh a TABLE for Panics, with the bell provi.
fions ihe Markets afford, at any hour, on the
Ihorti ft notice. Fro|ii his long experience in
thislin. ot bufVnefs, he flatters h'tmfelf he (hall
be able to give fat)s(a&inn to all who may pledfe
to favor him with their; c ompany.
Philadclp'n a, January 29, i 794.
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
Ihe public, f-hat Irom the cncouragcment
he has received, fromfevcral refpe&able Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his feivices to
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidence
in him ; and he allures those who employ him,
that thrir confidence (hall not be miiplaced ;
but it {hall be his constant endeavor, to pay the
ftri&eft attent'on to their belt interest, in all ne
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber,
in $tat€istrect % over Mr. David Toxunjendy Watch
Makei's Shop.- Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of all kinds, are bought and fold; and
where Commillion Business of all kinds, will be
tranfafled on leafonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be constantly exposed for sale, on
commiflion.
*»* Cash paid for Salem, Providence, and
Portsmouth BILLS.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York, has any Bujinefs to tranfafl. at BoJUen,
in Paper Negocuitions, he will be happy tt be em
ployed on commijjion.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794,
War Department.
January 30th 17.94.
INFORMATION is heieby to all the
mil itaty invalids of the United States,that the
sums to which they are entitled for fix months'
of their annual petition, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and. which wtl) become due
on the sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Com mi (Trailers of the Loans
within the states refpe£lively, under the usual re
gulations. '
Applications of executors and administrators
mull be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpr&ive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose penfron they may claim.
By command of the President
of the United Spates,
The printers in the refpe&ive dates are
requtfted topublifh the above Jn their newfpa
pcis for the Cpace ol two months.
January 30.
NATIONAL CONVENTION
REPORT upon the NAVIGATION
ACT, made in the name of the Com
mittee of Public Safety, by B. Barrere.
iTranfmttted by the President of the Uni
ted States to the House of Representa
tives, on the 16th January, 1794.
ni&th— tf
\_ConcludedJrom our Paper of ith infl."]
TH£ maritime transportation of our ex«
change with the Europeans, the Levant, the
Barbary states, and the Anglo Americans,
eftima ing a mean year, freni 1787 101789,
inclusive, has employed in the whole, 16,225 :
veflels, measuring 1,134,170 tons, which,
taking one with another, at 36 livres the ton,
Wculd produce 42,630.120 livres of freight.
There have been employed in this transpor
tation, during the fame period, only 3 763
French veflels, measuring, in the whole,
295>*51 t' ns, making, at the fame rate,
10,808,316 livres of freight.
That is to fay, the French flag has appeared
to come 111 for only a little more than two
tenths, whilst the English flag has participated
therein to nearly the amount ol four tenths
and that of other nations in the remaining
four tenths.
In the firfl fix months of 1792, in near
6,000 veflels, meafuiing 500,000 tons, which
hflve been, in like manner, employed in our
commercial imports, and exports, to and from
the fame peopie, the French had but three
tenths »f the total mass, whilfl the veflels of
England and Holland, and the Hanfeatic
towns had four tenths, and the veflels of other
nations the remaining three tenths.
If we view this navigation under another
afpeft, that oi eur dired relations with each
of the European states, of the Levant,-Bar
bary, and North-America, it will be seen,
that during the fame time (taking the mean
Wednesday, February 12, 1794.
Daily's Hotel.
H. KNOX,
Sectetary oj War.
AND
year of 1788 and 1789 inclusively) there have
been mixed is the maritime transportation of
our exchanges ; with Spain, 190 vessels other
than French or Spanilh, dedodion being made
of the foreign vessels who might have intermed
dled in this carrying trade, under either of the
two flags. With Sardinia, 269 veffels,alfo in
termedial. With the Republic of Genoa, 261,
similar vessels. With Holland, 253, similar
vessels. In a word, with all the slates of which
I have spoken, 2368 vessels, employed in indi
rect commerce, and whose tonnage amounts to
230,00© tons; which valued at 36 per ton of
freight one with another amount to 8,303 600
livres carried off wich impunity, in one year,
from our carrying trade, merely from the want
of a navigation ad in France, without counting
upon the confidence advantages which would
otherwise result from it, for her industry and
commerce, for ship building in her ports, and
for the employment of the whole or even
half ofthefe 2368 intermediate vessels.
It mull then appear plainly to the convi&i«n
of every person, that nothing would contribute
more to the prosperity of our navigation, and
consequently to every branch of our commerce
and industry, than the adoption of an a<st,
which,by severely excluding all foreigners who
hitherto have forcibly taken from our fellow
citizens the richest portion, if I may so express
myfelf, of their patrimony, would in the fame
proportion increase the amount of their direct
relations with foreign nations.
I.et us hasten then citizens, to restore to our
conntry all her rights, by adopting in this ref
pc<st:, a grand system, worthy of all that we
have done for liberty.
It, at the epoch at which I now speak, our
navigation is proportionally more languilhing
than that of England was, when the genius of
Cromwell gave her that so renowned a6l, let us
hope that by consecrating it in our maritime le
gislation, ournavigation will in a'Jhort timeacj
quire the fame degree of splendor, as that of
our rivals. With more than 250 leagues of
coast on the ocean, and the channel, and more
than 100 on the Mediterranean, with ports as
38 e *tenfiv« and commodious, with an
infinite number of havens, of dock yards, of
manufactures of every kind, with an immen
lity of people,as enterprizing,as iriduftriouswith
incalculable territorial riches, & a mass of colo
nial commodities, superior to that of all the pow
ers of Europe united,& above all, with a tree &
Republican Constitution, let us hope that France
freed from the yoke of the feudal system, and
mat of the fifcal. iafeparahiy_ counted with
it ; delivered from her kings, her nobles, her
prieds, raised to the happy condition of depend
ing on those laws only, which are made by her
felf, and Hot obliged to receive them from any
power upon earth ; let us hope, I lay, that, in
Inch a state of things, France, with an ad of
navigation, would behold the rapid cnvelope
ment of all the feeds of public and private
prosperity which ihe contains in her besom.
Let usalfo hope that the decreeyou are about to
pafs,will prove more efficacious for obtaining
a peace with the belligerent maritime powers
than if they were to lose 100 of choir best ves
sels ; and as to those, who at this moment pre
fer ve circumfpfcdt neutrality towards vou be
purfuatfed that! the inevitable effedt of your'na
vigation a&, will be the attaching of them te
you by indifloluble ties. All will be eager to
seek an alliance with that European power
from whom thty will <Jerive most benefit, by
the fuppreflion of indirect flavigation, and the
lmmenuty of its confumcrs. Every one, from
the moment of the promulgation of your de
cree, will pray, and perhaps make use of iecret
efforts to procure you an advantageous peace
which doubtless at present, they have some in
terest in preventing ; and besides your inde
pendence, your political liberty, the eflablifti
nient of your republican constitution, will be
to them as much as to yourselves—a fubjedt of
triumph and general vidory.
The navigation a<ft, as 1 have already said,
is the basis of the commercial constitution of
the Republic ; or rather, it is in this refpedt a
true constitutional zA. All the other laws
upon maritime Havigati®n, should only be view
ed as corollaries of this adt, provisions as to the
manner of its execution in a word, merely re- j
gulatinglaws.
d2m
The latter may be fuceeffively prelented to
you by your committees. The moll imerefting
of these are relative to the tonnage of veflels,
upon the means of multiplying (hip building,'
and of bringing them to more perfe&ion ; up'
on the forms of fimulees and pafiports ; upon
the means of discovering and preventing frawci
fatioas, &c. and above all, upon a bet
ter tariff of rates of navigation, without which
the conttitutional ad, in this refpe&, cannot
produce all the effe£t which we have a right
to expe& from it.
Your committee will now confine itfelf to
laying before you the £roje<a of that a<9. By
prohibiting all intermediate navigation be
tween you and each foreign nation, it extends
this prohibition not only to the transportation
of the commodities, nwrchandifes, or produc
tions imported, of their growth, produflion or
manufaflure, but also to the tnnfportation of
those imported from the ordirary ports of sale,
and ot the firft exportation. If is neceflary that
&cb a prohibition (hould be as extensive as it
ifould be made, without which a navigation a<9
would become a mere illusory measure. The
Engliih from vvhem wr borrow this fjftem,
[Whole No. 51 i.J
have given It that extension ; and indeed they
are to be applauded for it.
T heneceflity of determining the requisite qua
lities for enjoying the privilege" of a French
veflel, that is to fay, for theexclufive admiflion
to carry on our dire# navigation, in concur
rence with the veflelsof the people, from whom
we receive our articles o.f supply ; this neceflify
I fay, was an immediate confluence of the
prohibition of all indireiSfc navigation. The
project of the a (SI regulates these qualities ; it
also determines the only evidence by which
we could know the veflels of the nation with
whom we may trade : and it is easily perceived
that if we did not impose in this refped, those
conditions which are mod conformable to our
interest, everyday cr.mds of intermediate vef
. wou 'd borrow the flag of filch na'ion ;
and we should have employed hut half the
means for abolishing indiredl navigation. Be
sides th«fe conditions have a tendency ta favor
th« direfl navigation and commerce of such
nation. By 'hem it is put in the happv necef
*7- «f multiplying by every means, its (liip
building, nautics, and maritime population ;
and if, ih the meanwhile, its own veflel, and'
marines are infufficignr for the exportation of
its commodities and merchandises, then it be
longs to us alone to supply that deficiency, and
oflr navigation would then receive a further in
crease from this source, and our, commerce an
additional degree of prosperity.
Thas every thing concurs, citizens, to induce
you to adopt the projedt of the navigation ait,
which lam inftru&ed to present to vou. It is a
national right you are about to proclaim*after
having feh mnly recognized the faciW rights of
man and of citizen, and founded the freed
constitution under the globe.
If all nations ought to recognize the equali
ty, the liberty of nature and the fafety of foci
tty in the exposition of the dodlrines of that
immortal declaration, all the maritime nations
ought to recognize the rights of property in
the dispositions of our navigation acft. Would
to heaven that a'l had the courage or the wis
dom to follow our example. Then there would
be no exclusive privilege between one nation
and another ; and were the ad of navigation
adopted by a 1 the maritime powers of the
globe, it would in some degree realize that in
definite commercial liberty, which without
doubt is the firfl element of commerce but
which ar present in particular, is not suitable to
the interefls of any commer ial nation
"With so many powerful inducements to de
cree an a<a of ns-riV.'. ion, you doubtlefi will
not in the exifling circumstances, be withheld
by the appretienfion fhat such a difpofitinn
would injure the obtaining of supplies fur the
republic which they are obliged to draw forth
from foreigners. It is an acknowledged prin
ciplewiih the English themselves, and constant
ly pfadhfed among them, that in time of w Jr
neutral vefTels are excepted, of right, Irom the
dispositions of the navigation a<S. This adt
therefore will n«t add to those rertriflions
which the maritime at present imposes on
the maritime transportation of our exchanges
or of our supplies : and neutral veflels will
continueto bring us every thing which we dare
not confide to our own
Veirher will 'you be deterred by an appre
hension of injuring the personal intei'efts of
some hundreds of cosmopolite capitalilh, of
felfilh cnnimidloners for whom the want of a
navigation ast in France, has been theprinci
pal, the molt fruitful source of the r celoflal
fortunes. The general interest of the country,
that of her labourers, of her manufacturers, of
her artifls, of herfeam n, her merchants and
ah her fans cu'ottes, to whctm yon will alTure
employment and bread : These reasons (hould
determineyou : These reasons fhoulj influence
you eiclufively in your deliberations. All wiil
bless you ; all will look upon the ast of navi
gation, as one of the most precious gifts you
could bePow on your countrymen, next to the
conflituu'onal charter which you have iu(l ,]i.
gefted. When Oliver Cromwell had, through
the medium of his parliament, established a
navigation act. all the ports of England mani
telted, by illuminations, the joy which that
memorable ast gave them; and the Eng'ifh
people forgot for a moment, that they received
this gift from the hand of a tyrant. How
great then ought the transports of our fellow
citizens to be, when they receive your decree
from the fame hands, which gave them that de
claration of rigUts, and the French constitu
tion.
May France be enabled, in the end, there,
fore, to boatt of hiving a navigation atft; may
it henceforward be the basis oT her policy as
it is about being that of hercommercc. May
flw soon become more rich, more flouri/hino
more happy, tha» (he has been under the most
bri liant reigns of her despots, and never treat
wirh foreijjn powers, without her con(lituri,m
in one hand, and hernavigation in the other •
and ai. onifhed Europe will doubtlefi Itc her
merchants become one day, her only ambafTa
dors, like those of London and Amflerdam for
merly, negotiating at foreign courts, the mod
important inrcrelts of their country, and alter
having weighed the deflinie. of the two words
and secured the prosperity and glory of their
country, reaffuming the peaceable pursuits of
commerce.
[The Ast of Navigation which fol
lows,has already appearedinthisGazette.]CONGRESS
Houfc of Representatives*
January 24.
In < ommittce of the •u , bolc on Air. Madfjn's
refulu lions
[Mr. Tracy's Observations concluded.]
IF thepropofed duties are low, Great
Britain certainly will not fuffer. If they
are high, what will be the confeqnences ?
It docs not admit of argument, that; the
people of this country mult import many
articles, from some foreign country ; we
certainly cannot at once, manufa&ure a
futficiency for our own consumption. It
is equally certain, that at present, no
country tn earth can fupplv us but Great
Britan : Tl»e consequence will be, that
British goods will get here, and the duties
beinjj high, will pnoduce smuggling.—
Our merchants are uow proverbial, tor a
combination not to defraud the revenue ;
but let your duties be high, and the prac
tice of all ptner countries will be adopted,
there w.Il be afTociations to cheat your re
venue ; aud this country by its numerous
and fafe "harbours a'fords a'n unlimited op
portunity to defraud the revenue, with
impunity. A tribute of praise, is due to
our merchants, for their exertions in the
ellablilhment and support of this govern
ment, and among their virtues, the punc
tual payment of duties, is not the lead,
but-1 feel the impolicy of draining them
too hard ; an alienation from the govern
ment, and holtility to the revenue, iwill
be the probable consequence,
Our (hipping, it is laid, will be increas
ed ; this can happen only, by a failure of
reducing Great Britain to terms ; this is
worthy of notice, Great Britain has gain
ed in quantity of (hipping, by her navi
gation act, and of course, fay the gen
tlemen, it is proper for the United States
to have a nav'jation act. Great Britain
is an island, filled with inhabitants, and
if not decreasing, has certainly not in-
creased in numbers for rr.a-iy years.
The United Slates have a great extent
of fertile territory, wholly unoccupied,
an;! an increasing hardy yeomanry, to cul
tivate it to the bed advantage ; our (hip
ping Km rapidly increased, and has gain
ed that point of equality and proportion
with our agriculture, which a jnft equili
brium of things demands ; tins is proved
by the advanced price of our seamen's wa
ges. And hefides there is no more capi
tal to fpart for navigation. Our farmers
feel the benefit of a competition in the
carrying trade, and it is at least queftion
ak.!' whether it is yet politic, to force fo
reigners out of this competition. We
have already, by our discrimination of
tonnage, in favor of our own vessels, and
by the addition of ten per cent, on the
cargoes of foreign vefTels, nearly deft toy
ed the competition, except to ports,where
it is difficult, if not impoflible, for our
»eflels to go.
With this view of the fubjeft, I con
fefs it is very doubtful in my mind, whe
ther an attempt to force an increase either
of our (hipping or manufa&ures, would
be politic. At present, Sir, I fee no
ground for revenging on Great Britain,
and if there were, I can discern no pro
bability of injuring her as much as our
fclves, by the attempt, and a treaty has
no flattering appearanceto me. One thing
had escaped my attention ; our treaties
are by the constitution, the supreme law
of the land ; this ties us unequally in cafe
of treaty, as no nation is under equal ob
ligations to'fulfil a treaty.
But the gentlemen fay, the Indian war
docs exist, the Algerines are abroad on the
sea, committing piracy on our trade,
&c. &c.
I promised to consider these matterß, as
in my mind they are very serious fubjefts,
and one gentleman (Mr. Giles) has said,
if these were removed out of fight, three
quarters of his argnment must be loft.
Is the treaty of peace, as it refpefts
the western post, unexecuted ?
Is the Indian war itiftigated and suppli
ed by the Britifti nation, and are the Al
gerines, through the agency of the fame
nation, deftroving our trade and enslaving
our citiznp ? These are serious charges,
if true, they deserve the atteution of all
men, and particularly of this Commit
tee. '
For the purposes of the present argu
ment, 1 wiil suppose, that all those char
ges lre fpecificallr and directly proved,
and by proof here, will be underilood,
that the fa&s are fo-far within our know
ledge, that candor cannot helitate in a
conclusion.
If I thought the resolutions under
eonfideration, were certain in the produc
tion of evil to ourselves, and very uncer
tain, as it refpe&ed either our own future
benefit?, or injury tGreat Brritain, what
can 1 think of them, as a remedy appli
cable to so much injury ? When consider
ing the question in this point of view, I
am led to ask the gentlemen, if they can
be serious in supposing these resolutions
are a proper confident and adequate re
medy, for evils of the nature and mag
nitude jull recited ? I acknowledge my
own feelings are very different. It thele
itatements are founded in fa6t, I cannot
juftify myfelf to my constituents, or my
conscience, in faying the adoption of the
regulations of commerce, a navigation
a&, or the whole parade of (hutting
ports, and freeing trade of its shackles,
is in any degree calculated to meet, or
remedy the evil.
Although T deprccate war, as the worst
of calamities for my country, yet I would
enquire ferioully whether we had fulfilled
the treaty on our part, with Great Bri
tain ; do compleat justice to them firft :
I would negotiate as long and as far as
patience ought to go, and if I found an
obstinate denial of justice, I would then
lay the hand of force upon the western
potts, and teach the world, that the Uni
ted States were no lels prompt in com
manding justice to be done them, than
they had been patient and industrious in
attempting to obtain it, by fair and pea
ceable means. In this view of the fub
jeft, I thould be led to fay, away with
your milk-and-water regulations, they are
too trifling to affect objetts of such im
portance. Are the Algerines to be
frightened with paper resolves, or the In
dians to be subdued, or the western polls
t:iken, by commercial regulations ? When
we consider the subject merely as a com
mercial one, it goes too far, and attempts
too much ; but when considered, as a war
eftablidiment, it falls infinitely (hortofthe
mark and does too little.
Mr. Boudinot lamented the want of
practical commercial kuowledge, when
called upon to give an opinion on fubjefts
of so great magnitude and eflential impor
tance to this country : But it was with
pleasure he took an opportunity of ac
knowledging the obligation he was under,
to the gentlemen who had gone before
him, for their collection of facts, their cal
culations and strong reasoning on the sub
ject, by which his misfortune was greatly
alleviated. The calm and difpaflionate
discussion of so great and interesting a
question, must be productive of great pub
lic advantage, as well as do great honor
to this committee. It was with the great
est attention that he had heard the various
reasonings throughout this long debate.
Ha had examined the facts ; he had com
pared and applied the calculations; he
had weighed every argument, and had
endeavoured to draw some final conclusions,
to direst his judgment. That which had
made the molt forcible impreflion on his
mind, and was equally deducible from the
arguments used by either fide of the house,
was, " That every wife nation under the
consideration of all circumstances, endea
voured to make their own individual in
terest, the pole-star, by which to direst
their conduct, whether of a political or
ccmmercial nature."
He observed, that it appeared to him
as clear as any mathematical proposition,
that in all the commercial regulations of
the nations of Europe, this one object in
fluenced every action. This was plainly
seen in all the favourable circumftanccs,
attending the arrets of France in our fa
vour. This, and this alone, had penned
every commercial reftriftion against us, by
Great-Baitain.
From the whole then of the debate,
without going into comparison of one na
tion and her conduct towards us, with an
other, which sometimes led into invidious
diftinftions. Mr. Boudinot said, he had
drawn this obvious and determinate coa
clufion, from the acknowledged attention
of old and wife nations to their own par
ticular interests, and which he (hould make
the rule of his conduct, on this great ques
tion, " to go and dolikewife."
But before he proceeded to the resolu
tions on the table, he thought proper to
premise, the propriety of laying out of the
debate, the charge of the enmity of Great
Britain and the friendlhip of France, as
far as either refpefted the former govern
ment. Politicians and Legislators (hould
riot indulge paflion ; the circumstances of
the present government were those that
demanded their attention, and by going
so far back, they would be exposed to
greater mistakes. He said he had already
found it very easy to mistake or misappre
hend facts of an important nature, when
relative to fubjefts that engage the pas
sions as well as the judgment.
Mr. Boudinot said he was not desirous
of becoming the panegyrist of Great-Bri
tain ; he had known too much ; he had
felt too much, to execute such an office
with propriety. He lhould not overvalue
the friendfliip of France, in the aid we
had received from her, because he knew
that it was not from the nation but the
monarch, that the whole of it was brought
about. He knew that his sole motive
was the bed interests of his crown, and
that when he fought with us fide by fide,
he had fought his owu battles in our coun
try, instead of our own. It was interest
that led America to aik, it was interest
that led him to comply.
But notwithstanding circumstances of
this nature, he was desirous that the whole
truth ihould prevail. He did not approve
of half truths, he wilhed the whole to be
known. Great Britain had been repeat
edly charged with originating the Indian
war.
She had been (it was said) always a
verse to entering into a commercial treaty
with us. These facts, Mr. Boudinot dis
puted, nay he did not believe them. Gentle
men had founded many itrong arguments
upon them, but it would have been best,
firft to have produced the evidence, to
prove their exigence.
As to the originating the Indian war,
so far from its being originated by Great-
Britain, that he knew that it had origina
ted in the falfe policy of Congrcfs, in 1783.
This was no new idea ; he had then fore
feen it; he had then foretold it, with its
consequences j he did not deny that the
officeis and agents of Great-Britain had
lince encouraged and encreafcd it : That
they had not dene what rhey ought to
have done, to prevent it. They had claim
ed the right of aiding the Indians, by pre
sents., We alio as a nation, had claimed
the right of aiding the French Republic,
in every way consistent with our neutrality.
As to her being always averse to a
commercial treaty; this also Ihould be
taken with some reftriftion. The facts
(hould be truly stated. 111 September,
1779, Congress thought it prudent to au
thorise and inftruft their Commissioners to
enter into a commercial treaty, with Great-
Britain, in cafe of a peace. In July, 1781,
when a negociation for peace was likely
to take place, Congress on the principle
that our true commercial advantages were
not well understood, thought it be ft, to
avoid all uuneceffary European connec
tions : and therefore, in the month of July,
1781, repealed the Commissioners' autho
rity, to enter into a commercial treaty and
withdrew their inftruftions. At this cri
tical moment, when Great-Britain had ac
ceded to our independence, and was im
pressed with, the danger of losing our
commerce, (he came forward, and (if his
information was right) proposed a com
mercial treaty, on rational and generous
terms, which for want of authority, was
refufed by our Commissioners. To this
source, was the proclamation of the King
of Great-Britain, owing, by which we
were cut off from the Well-India trade.
Before this mistake could be rectified, oar
disunion as to commercial regulations, and
weakness as to national objects, were ful
ly known to Great-Britain ; since which
he believed, (he had wholly omitted to en
ter into further treaty with us.
He said he had carefully examined the
journals of Congress, as to the granting
and repeal of the power of the commis
sioners, but as to the offering and refu
ting the commercial treaty, he depended
on a confidential letter he had received
in 1783, and which was read in Congress
the Ift of O(Sober of that year ; and as
he would not vouch for the authenticity
of those fact«, but chose that the com
mittee (hould have all the evidence he
had—he would trouble them with read
ing the substance of it.
Mr. Boudinot then read some parts of
a letter dated Sept. 28, 1783, which in
fubltance was, " 1 left Paris the 15th of
June, the day before which, Mr. Hart-
Icy had communicated to the American
Plenipotentiary and to me, a dispatch
which he had received from Mr. Secreta
ly Fox, authorifmg Mr. Hartley to agree
to a treaty of commerce, allowing a free
tiade to the Weft-Indies, to the veffeltand
fubjefts of the United States, under the
single rellriftion of not carrying the pro
duce of those i(lands to Great Britain
That Congress would bell know the rca
fons that induced the commiflioners to
object to that reftriftion, and which had
eventually fruftrated the expectation of a
commercial treaty with Great Britain ;
and yoa will undoubtedly have seen the
proclamation, which in consequence there
of had been ifl'ucd by his Britannic Ma
jesty, whereby the veffcls of the United
States, are in effect precluded from all
access to the British Weil Indies. But
as the ultimate intentions of the British
minister on that fubjeft, appeared doubt
ful and as it seemed highly important that
they should be known to Congress as soon
as pofiible, and as I had occasion on
Friday the Bih of August, to fee my
lord North, refpefting a matter of private
property, I availed myfelf of that oppor
tunity of conversing thereon with his
lordship, who with great apparent candor
told me, that the proclamation and thtf
principles of it, would undoubtedly be
adhered to during the continuance of the
ast of Parliament; that Parliament must
then determine, refpefting future mea
sures; that the navigation ast had been
the source and support of the British na
val power and must not be infringed with«-
out urgent necessity; that he was desi
rous of promoting a good understanding
with the United States, by all mean 3
compatible with the interest of Great Bri
tain, but that the Americans after ma
king themfelvcs independent, were unrea
sonable, desiring privileges which never
had been granted to any independent peo
ple, especially as they appeared to have
neither the inclination nor the ability to
give any adequate advantages to Great
Britain in return, I intimated the pro
bability, that the United Staees would
retaliate and prevent their produce being
carried to the Weft Indies in British ves
sels : To which his lordship replied, (hat
the United States had doubtless the right
to adopt such a measure, but in so doing
they would necessarily deprive themfelvcs
of the belt and indeeed the only fufficient
market for their produce, obltruft the
growth, agriculture and profperitv of their
own country and injure themselves much
more than they could possibly injure
Great Britain. That in war Great Bri
tain exposed to much expence and diffi
culty in defending her Weft India colo
nies and all times giving them exclusively
the benefit of her market, depriving her
felf in their favor, of the advantage of
purcliafing tile fugai s, &c. of other coun
tries and thereby enabling British Weft
India planters to obtain higher prices for
their produce than the planters of any
other nation, and that unless Great" Bri
tain in return for these favors could exclu
sively enjoy the benefits of their naviga-c
tion, it would in his private opinion, be
much better to let them become independ
ent like the United States. His Lord
ship did not request and I presume tie did
not expect, I would keep this conversa
tion a secret, and you are at liberty to
communicate it to Congress, though as I
do not wilh to be cited on political fubjefts,
I beg it may be confined to that honor
able body. I indeed thought it excell
ent before I left London, to write an -ac
count of it to the American Plenipoten
i tiary in Paris, &c. &c."
Mr. B. then proceeded,and said " that
these facts had convinced him that the
charge was too general; efpccially as by
the late communications we are informed
that a negociation was now again in train
on the fame fubjeft. That in his opinion
Great Britain had enough to answer for
that was jultly chargeable to her account
without relying on bare suggestions with
out proof. Her breach of the treaty by
carrying away our negroes contrary to the
express words, and withholding the polls
without a ihadow of excuse, are iufficient
evidence of her want of public faith ; but
let us not found our acts 011 those facts,
which if enquired into we cannot support
—Mr. B. oblerved that he had made these
observations to remind gentlemen that tlio'
this nation had at times done us wrong,yet
that we had not been without fault.—
Therefore he added, let lis dispassionately
consider the resolution on the table, on the
principle of our present situation among
the nations or as it has been finceour pre
sent government. It cannot be denied,
that our trade has been in a flouriftiing con
dition ever since the year 1790. Let any
gentleman who doubts this, cad his eye
on the reports from the treasury office forfcveral years past. It is fall pressing to
perfection.
Mr. B. was in opinion with the gentle
man who had gone before him, that it was
possible to carry our navigation too far,
when considered in proportion to our agri-
Cultural interest, but that point was yet
to come. He acknowledged that since
the late war in Europe, we had been the
fufierers. That our Ihips had been pirati
cally despoiled (if he might be allowed
the expreflion) by the privateers of En
gland, Spain and France. That our citi
zens julllv looked up to their government
for protection and recompence. The u
sual established mode among civilized na
tions, was in the firft instance remwiftrance
and negociation ; this was not the duty of
the representatives of the people but be
longed to another department ; we were
officially informed that this was done, a
negociation was on foot and our executive
officer had fixed the Ift day of Dec. last,
when our miniller at the court of London
was to give a positive and decided account
of the state of the negociation. Would
it then be prudent for the committee, un
til the ifiue of that negociation is known,
to interfere or perhaps run counter to our
executive ; the departments of govern
ment fhoidd be kept separate, and not one
counteract the other.
f7 o Be concluded in our next.J
PennA'Lvania Legislature.
HOUSE of REPRESENTAT IVES.
Saturday, February 4.
After reading a few petitions, the house
resumed the consideration of the bill for
the defence of the river Delaware, and
the western frontiers of this common-
wealth.
The preamble implies, that the declar
ed neutrality of the United States renders
it expedient to provide for more effectual
ly feeuring the trade, peace, and fafety
of the port of Philadelphia, during the
continuance of the war in Europe, and
that the necessity of co-operating with the
general government in the defence of the
western frontiers, requires the passing a
law, See.
The firft feflion will empower the go
vernor to raise by voluntary enlistments,
from the militia of the commonwealth, 3
infantry companies, of experienced rifle
men, and one company of artillery, t#
serve under his inftru&ions, for eight
months, from the ift of April next—and
this fe&ion will also fix the pay, &c.
The second fe&ion will provide for sta
tioning the artillery at Foit-Mifflin. One
company of infantry on the frontiers of
Weftmoreland ; another in Walhington,
and the third company in Alleghany.
The third feition will empower the go
vernor to draft some of the artillery, &c.
and to station them at Prefque-Ifle, on
Lake-Erie.
The fourth fe&ion will appropriate a
sum of money for the purposes aforefaid,
and to pay off the expence9 already incur
red by the prote&ion of Mud-Island. The
sum agreed to by the house, on motion of
Mr. Nevil, is 50,000 dollars.—The pay
of captains per month, 40 dollars, lieute
nants 26, enfign6 20, sergeants 8, corpo
rals 7, drummers, fifers, and buglers 7,
and privates 6, 67-100.
The bill was gone through, and order
ed to be tranferibed for a third reading.
The clerk of the senate brought down
a mefiage with a bill to prevent receiving
any more applications, or ifTuing any more
warrants for lands ill this commonwealth
a 'ter a certain period. Read and ordered
to lie on the table.
Mr. Morgan called for a second read
ing of the report of a committee on the
memorial from the city and county com
missioners. This report recommends, that
a committee be appointed to prepare and
bring in a bill authorizing the governor's
drawing a waiTant for a sum of money e
fjuivalent to the purposes of paying off the
sums advanced by the commissioners over
the money already appropriated, also for
Completing the improvements in the conn
tv court house, now occupied by Con
gress—viz. to erect galleries &c. On
motion of Mr Torrence the further con
sideration of this fubjeft was postponed ;
in order to give time for a joint commit
tee of the Legislature to infpeft the build
ings, and report on the state of the ex
penditures already made. A committee
of five were accordingly appointed, viz.
Mr. Morgan, Mr. Lilley, Mr. M'Lene,
Mr. Wynkoop, and Mr. Torrence.
The order of the day, viz. b i for re
gulating the filheries and removing ob
itrutlions in the rivers Delaware and .Le
high. Mr. Wynkoop mu\cd for a post
ponement till this day two weeks, agreed.
Mr. Morgan presented a petition which
was read the firft time, from the Phila
delphia Society for proinuting agriculture,
praying to be incorporated.
For the Gaizelie of the United States.
A Statement of what is believed to be the
private views and politics of the party
that is for adopting measures that would
probably lead to a War.
ON the must mature deliberation, after
observing the conduit of the party for a'
course. of years, the wiiter of this is de
cidedly of the .opinion, that the whole of
the uneasiness proceeds from a spirit of op
polition to the government. It is the
fame party that has been uniformly op
posed, in the firft instance, to the Consti
tution, and since that to fitch measures as
have been adopted by itsfiiends, and ge
nerally to the views of the Prefidcnt, and
thole who wi(h to support the laws.
One great object of the leaders, is
power; that is, to bring about a change
of men, and to get the government into
their own hands. They however know'
the attachments of the people, and that
they have no chance of iucceeding in their
views, but by misleading, in some way or
other, the public mind. It has been long
their practice to endeavor by every possible
means, to excite a prejudice againjl men
and measures, in order to influence elec
tions, so as to be able to carry, matters in
their own way ; and among other
things to oblige such officers as are
not in their politics, to relinquish either
their principles or their places
They avail themselves of every circum
stance that occurs in the course of events
that C3n be made to operate in their favor,
even for a day; and French politics are
made subservient, in an especial manner,
to accomplish certain purposes.
It is well known by these men, that
the resentments andpaffions of the people,
are alive to the injuries done to us by
Great Britain in the way of trade, and
that they entertain a sense of gratitude to
the French nation and wifli them success
in tlie cause of • Liberty.—While these
feelings excite in a strong degree, the par
ty endeavor to make the mod of them,
and therefore would freely hazard a rup
ture with England by adopting irritating
measures in opposition to the views of the
government, in hopes of finding support,
and to profit by confufion—get rid of
their opponents in politics, and gain an
ascendancy in the direction of the affairs
of the Union.
I much mistake however, if Mr. M.
and his colleagues have not overshot them
selves, and given the alarm ; for however
well disposed the peaceable citizens of the
United States would be to resent, on a
proper occasion, the insults of foreign na
tions, and notwithstanding they love the
cause of France, they are aware that Great
Britain has no disposition to go to war
with us, and therefore will not readily a
gree to be dragged, into such a dilemma
umieceiTavily, or by indirect means, with
out jult and fufficient cause.
The people will soon underfland that
the whole bufmefs of the resolutions ref
pefting commerce, and the outer)' against
Great Britain, and in favor of France,
proceeds entirely from party spirit, and
not from motives of patriotism or a zeal
for liberty. Enmity to Great Britain—
the honor, dignity, and independence of
the United States, and friendfhip to
France, are the ostensible reasons for their
conduct, but not the true ones.
These men who appear willing to pro
ceed step by step in concert with foreign
agents towards inviting a war, call them
selves Republicans: anjj yet we fee from
the late debates, that when moderation is
recommended in oppolitiou to violent
measures, they discover a spirit that is by
110 means charafterifticof what they profefs.
It is evident to the world, that the af
fairs of the United States are ii*the molt
prosperous situation of any country per
haps on the globe. Their revenues which
arise chiefly from trade, are abundantly
equal to every demand, and their indus
trious citizens enjoy tlie greatest (hare of
happiness. >
How then could Congress juftify them
selves to their constituents, should they
uncxpeSedly adopt measures that would cer
tainty turn the whole trade of the country
into new channels, destroy their revenue
when it might be moil wanted, and oblige
them to have recourse to new sources of
taxation—and too likely be one cause u
mong others, of involving us in a war
with England, and of courfc with all the
combined powers of Europe ? Nothing
but the force of party-spirit can produce
such extreme folly, and it is presumed,
it is not the firft time that some of these
very men have milled their calculations
with regard to the wishes and sentiments
of the great body of their fellow-citizens.
A Fximnd to Peace.
adjourned.
UNITED STATES.
PETERSBURG, February 4.
Return of Goods, Waresand Merchandize,
exported from the District of Bermuda-
Hundred or City-Point, commencing
Ift October, and ending the 31ft De
cember, 1793.
To France— 337 hlids. tobacco,
To Spam—lo buftiels beans, 396 bar
rels fuperfine flour, 2,391 ditto, fine, 30ft
bees-wax.
To Ireland—37oft deer-Ik ins, 36,500
staves, I,276hhds. tobacco, 3,2sobu(hels
wheat.
To Er.gland— 20,000 bricks, 2000 ft
ginseng, 1,70 c ft. horns, 3000 ft. indigo,
53 tons pig iron, 186 ft. deer-flcins,
133,100 staves, 96 hand-l'pikes, 4,176
hhds. tobacco, iocft bee's-wax.
To Scotland—26,9oo staves, 1,235
hhds. tobacco.
To Spanish IV. Indies—6 barrels apples,
4 ditto bacon, 8 kegs butter, 70cft.
cheese, 402 barrelsfwperfine flour, 1,0564
do. fine do. 1 box hats, 1 bundle leather,
400 bunches onions, 20 barrels pork, 18
bufliels pease, 1 bag shoes, 2,000 staves,
7 hogsheads tobacco.
Nett amount of exports, 295,324 dol
lars, 70 cents.
Nett value of every species of Merchan
dize, imported into this Diftrift within
the fame period, : 9 : 05 fterl.
equal to 372,086-dollars.
WINCHESTER (Virg.) Jan. 27
By the last poll fiom Kentucky, the
Editor received a printed address from the
Democratic Society of that State, to the
inhabitants of the United States weft of
the Allegany and Apalachian mountains,
requesting them to unite in a petition to
Congress, to obtain the free navigation of
the river Miffifippi; also, a printed peti
tion, but no signers to it, addressed to the
President and Congress of the United
States, stating the hardships the inhabitants
of t,he western country labor under, by be
ing debarred the navigation of that river,
and soliciting them to procure it to be
opened ; adding, that if the General Go
vernment refufes, they will not hold them
selves answerable for any consequences
that may result from their own procure
ment of it.
It was lately represented in a letter from
Cincinnati, territory of the United States
north-weft of the river Ohio, and which
was publilhed in the Maryland Journal,
that Gen. Clarke, who had received a
French commission, was raising a body of
troops in Kentucky, to go on an expedi
tion down the Miffifippi—our doubts re
fpefting the truth of this information, was
the reason we did not notice it before—
we now find, by a gentleman recently from
Kentucky, that Gen. Clarke is poflefled
of the commission in question—our infor
mant fays he has seen it—but that he had
begun to raise troops, in virtue thereof,
was void of foundation*
By this Day's Mail.
The Quebec, a new fix and thirty gun
frigate, with 18 pounders, commanded
by Capt. Jofiah Rogers, wa6, with others,
ordered on the Nrw-York station, for the
prote&ion of the American and British
trade ; and when Vice-Admiral Jerris can
spare that (hip, (he will repair to her cruiz
ing ground, off Sandy-Hook.
An account is received in town, that
his royal highness prince Edward, 4th
son of his majesty the king of Great Bri
tain, lately embarked from an eastern port
to join the army under fir Charles Grey,
commander, which is at this time suppos
ed to have attacked the island of Gauda
loupe. Prince Edward travelled from Que
bec through the woods to the place of
embarkation.
February 3
NEW-YORK, February 11.
PHILADELPHIA,
tEBRUARY 12.
We hear that on account of the peti
tioner's counsel, not being able to attend,
the consideration of the report on the
contested tleftion of Mr. Gallatin, align
ed for this day, has been peftponed in the
Senate of the United States, till Monday
next.
CONGRESS.
Houfi of Reprcfdntativcs.
Wednesday, Feb. 12.
The bill for the relief of Thomas Jen-»
kins & Son, was read the third time and
pafled. This bill provides for the remis
sion of duties on goods loft in veflel
bound up the North-River.
Mr. Giles of the committee on the pe
tition of ——, refpeifting an ex
tensive plan of Insurance of Property,
brought in a report. The committee are
of opinion that the plan cannot be adopt
ed by Congress at the prcfent time. A
motion for printing it did not prevail.
On motion of Mr. Murray, the report
on the petition of S. Smith of Maryland,
was read a second time, and after some
conversation postponed, to give time for
further information.
A meflage from the President of the
United States, by Mr. Dandridge, inform
ed the House that the ast providing for
the relief of such inhabitants of St. Do
mingo, resident within the United' States,
as are in want of support—had received
the President's approbation and signature.
The bill providing for the remission of
the foreign tonnage duty onfundry French
veflels, which took refuge in the ports of
the United States, the lafl Summer, was
recommitted.
The House then resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole—Mr. B. Bourn
in the chair—and took into consideration
the report on the Poft-Office Law.
After 3 o'clock the committee rose and
reported progress, & the House adjourned.
SHIP NEWS.
Arrived at Netv-TorL,
Ship Peggy, Henlhaw,
The Eliza, Capt. Bright, left Cadiz
27th Nov. in company with the brig Ze
phyr, Capt. Pote, bound to Portland,but
loft fight of him at night, not thinking it
prudent to run in for Cape St. Vincents,
but stood oft W. They were the only
American veflels that kftCadizfince those
that failed under prcteftion of the Havan
nah convoy.
It was reported at Cadiz when Captain
Bright failed, that the Algerines had all
returned to the Straights, and that one of
their Zebecks of 2 2 guns had been call
athore between Gibraltar and Malaga,and
evert foul loft.
Left in Cadiz the following American
veflels,
Ship Commerce, Loving,
Greenway, Oakman,
Rockfley, Jones,
Industry, Perry,
Louisa, Codman
Brig Crugar, Ablin,
rr -
Eliza, Hall,
Dolphin, Stutfon,
Dolphin, Dutton,
Aurora, Smith,
William, Foster
George, Black,
Sloop Honor, Pollard, Norwich
Brig Almv, M. Cutter, New-York ;
Fanny, Colley, Virginia ; Hull Packet,
Lawrence, New-York ; Hope, Field Vir
ginia ; Jane, Stone, Portland.
Sloop Fliza, Coffin, Baltimore.
Were all lately arrived and ordered to
ride quarantine on account of the pestilen
tial disorder raging at Philadelphia.
The schooner Goddess of Liberty, of
and from New-York, had fafely arrived
at Malaga.
And the brig Mary Ann, Capt. Rof.
fetter, of and from do. had arrived at Car
thagena, on the 15th Nov. she had a nar
row escape, having come into that port
half an hour after an Algerme had.
The brig Neptune, Captain Griffiths,
from Amsterdam to Cadi/., put into Uf
bon nth Nov. having been informed of
the Algerinc9 being out.
Left at Madeira 27th, December.
•Sfiip Mary, M'Kvers, for New-York
Washington, Webb, for India from Salem
F-übv, Atkins, for ChaiLftt.,l
Brig Union, Webster, New-York
Sloop Dolphin, Richardson, do.
Amfterdara
of Boston
do.
do.
Philad.
Virginia
N. York
do.
Boflorf
Boftorf
Petcrfburg
Virginia
do.
do.This day is f>ubli/bed 9
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. j i 8 Ma KK t T-ST k ffc t ,
( Price a quarter dollar)
A short account of ALGIERS,
Centamme a drfcrtytion ol i hr climate of thai
coun: ry —of the manners af»d cuiloms of »h«- in
anis. and of their fevrral wars against Spain.
F anc~, England, H'>ii*nH, Venice, and other
powers of Eurdpe, from the usurpation of Bar-
K»»rofTn and the invasion of the Emperor Ch.irlei
V. to the present time; with a eoncifr view #>•
the ni gin of the ruotuie between ALGIERS
•r.d he UNITED STATES.
Jan. 9.
JUST PUBLISH h D,
AND SOLD BY
H. Sc P. RIQE, No. 50, Market-flreet,
alio, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Market-fteeet,
(Price, bou \
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story.
TO WHICH IS JDDKDf
The Indian Cottage
From the French of M. dt St. Pierre.
14 I'HE above Siorus have be< n lately pub
lished, the uorksot a very different
naiurt, l>y M. dc S . Pwrrr, who resided in the
counivy wbicK it-delcribes, and was well ac
quainted w»(h the piincipal fa£Vs. Its orna
ments arc the I.annfeape — the Climate—and
the natural history of the Tonid Z->ne, oi»(er
ved with th'-eyeof and debneated with
the eye of Philofoph'ical knowledge. It is a
P Ib-ra', of which the fable and the machine,
ry m<y be (aid to be equally real. To these are
ad 'd, ihc pure vein of Moral I; (fyuffion, and
d4t
Feb. 1
Insurance Company
Philadelphia, January 6, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby $ ven to the members
o f the Insurance Company of Nortii-
Ainerica, • l»at the Dirc&ors have dec la red a
d vidend (for the last fix month 1 ?) of six PER
Cent, on rhe amount of the full and ft-cond
iYittaiments ; and of* ore per cent per month
on the turns paid in ant cipation of rhe third
instalment, calculating fVnri the si ft day of
the month following that", in \vh ch th fe pay
ments were mad \ The .dividend'will be paid
to the Stockholders, or their rtpiefei tatives,
at t>e company's oificr. No. 119 f<»t 11 Front
ftreet, at any time afte< the 13th instant.
Bv o- d<
>f the p ; ff,<stot'S.
EBENEZEH HAZARD, Secretary
Jan- 9
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of R cprefentaii ves,
D t c l M B fc R 2 1 ft, 1 793.
WHEREAS the CommiflTnners of public
Aicoums, h v«. reported, that they can.
rot proceed 10 the in efiij>ation of the Trealury
Accounts, refpefting fp-cial Indent*, without
knowing the omftanding amount thereof in. cir
culation Therefore,
Rcfolvtd, That all holders of special Indents
be divtdtd, and require, on or before the firft
day of NwVi mber n xt, to deliver the fp cial In
den s in their posT ffion 10 one or other of the
Conimiflioiifis of the Treasury, who are to give
receipts lor the f.me, and to rep rt to ttaeCom
tirflionm on public accounts, on or before the
t n'.h day of November next, the amount by
then* relpeit'vcly received, and also 10 the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next.
And that ail special Indents not rendered into
the Treafuiy as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, lhall be, t.r»d the fame are
hereby barred.
RefolveJ, That public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, un:il the firft day o
November next. And 'hat the Delegate* ©f this
Slate in the Congress of the United Siate.«, he re
queued to cause this rdolution to be published
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that proyifion will be
n;ade for the cxpeuces attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
Senate tor their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SANFORD DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
December 21(1.1793.
Befolvrd. That this House do concur with the
House of Repiefentatives in the foregoing reso
lutions.
Ordered. That the resolutions be (ent to the
House of Representatives.
By order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE RY
M. Carey, No. 118, High-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the world.
Trf IS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all class. s of people, merchants, me
chanics and far men. Such a reputation has this
woik acquired, that it has pa fled th o th»ee im
preflions in the eastern Hates, and many h°ule
holders deem it so ufeiul as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theit families.™ "Price 2s.
February 4. dti
N O R R I S-COUR T,
Back of' the New Library, between Chefnut
and Walnut Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
< ■ 1 ying on t!ie bufinrfs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likcwife, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-(hutters,don& in the mod
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
O'dei s from the conntry will be thankfully
received, and du.y attended
December $o % dtf
|ult Imported,
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
A'-d now. <»•>■
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jlreety
A Lai{*e and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following:
NE*V Annual Register for 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs nf the Manchefler society, 3
Pi'ieftlv 011 matter and i'pirit
on chritlianity
Disney's life of Dr. Jortin
Kmgville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Meinty, a collection of efTays
Varieof PrufTia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
Ruflell's ancient ancl mode, n Europe
L mghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, fupe'bly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural h story
Saugnier and Briflbn's voyage
Rocjio/i's voyage to Madagascar
Fownfend's travels in Spain
Tafia's jerufalein delivered
Stnellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's hiftoiy of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of bids
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's raponal recreations
History of F' ance, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of litei ature, 3 vols.
\Vhit*ke r 's defe nee of queen Mary
Sheridan'< dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key ro polite literature.
I inlay's d.-icription of Kentucky
P'efent state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
P r eston on masonry
L ivater 011 abridged
Z tnmei man's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Net ker on executive power
Killtfs of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins ofempires
w&f 1 111
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immarerialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Noil's travels
Franklin's life and works
G ozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's fkerches of the history of man
Liberal opinion.*, or the history of Benignus
MaWe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. & Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wall 3 on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruflia,Poland,&c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid-
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Inues on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
A r mstrong on diseases of children
Qnincy'sd fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's dissertations
London prasice of physic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
HAS Lately received a number of article.*;
among which are the following; That
r markable bud called the Cut-water, or fcif
ars-bill; The Avofette, commonly called the
Shoe-maker, because of its bill resembling a
crooked awl—The Long-legs, commonly call
ed the Black-bet, having perhaps the longed legs,
iri proportion to the fi7e of the bird, of any of
• he feathered tribe—The Storm-finch, common
ly called mother Cary's chickcr.—The Sea
fwallow, and various Gulls ; besides a variety
ol Cranes, Curlews, Snipes, &c.
An Indian hatchet made of : It is
curious that those uninformed wild people, hav
ing very little knowledge of the aits, and being
ignorant even of the existence of iron and steel,
should be able to form such hard substances in
to fanciful forms as this, and other Indian ma
nufactures now in the Museum.
ng for ale, by
A lignified Quince : The specimen thews
what a remaikable effect a dry warm fnuation
has on fruit. It is now about 8 years since it
was gathered ; and it was a real quince, now be
come wood, at leafl in appearance.
Presented by Mrs. Manfon of Charleflown,
S. C.—a tool used by the O aheitans in making
their bark cloth, by pounding the bark on this
instrument of wood, it produces the ribs which
lefemble threads : the perfr&ly straight and
«qual lines made in this extreme hard wood, by
men without the use of iion,are curious Sc won
derful.
Alio, imoemiJe of grass, part of the rigg
ing of a vefTel of Kamfkatka.
Prelented by Dr. Hall, of Lewis-town, a Squib
in spirits : whtii this fiih w) , found, a number
I"! <lo »« were append dlO firings or ligaments
that pmje£led from the front of itt head,which
occasioned a conjrflure, as it is not lurnilhed
with fufficient fjns to refill the violenre of the
tide and currents, that it faftened with thcfc li
gaments on whatever it found at the bottom ; so
that the flnnes answered the purpofeof anchors
and the jijjamemSos a glutinous flicky nature,
that of cablet. Some of the ftonei are in the
lame phial..
A co'l. &ion of Minerals and other Foflils
a'e now difplayi d in drawers covered with glass
and in a mode which willfeeure them from de
rangement. To each specimen are affixed refe
ren es to a book of defer iptions. This manage
ment of specimens of the Foflil kingdom, ren
ders this part of the Museum very convenicn'
and fatisfa£forv,and great attention will he paid
to the fvftemancal order of them, and in mak
ing the nec« flary essays of each : Also in giving
in a concise manner, the various ufet they are
applied to; thereby rendering them the more
interefling to the public.
A Living Elk, of 2 years old, is just receiv
ed. By the account which monf. Button gives
of the Elk, it appears that he was not acquaint
ed with this American animal; he particularly
omits all notice of the curious apertures adjoin
ing the eyes of this Elk.
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their (uture favors, as well as
those oi'the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
(horteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
fucli as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chaiis, and liarnefs
of every description, in the neateil and newest
fafhion now prevailing In the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the bed seasoned
wood by him, ard capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatist'acftion to thole whopleafe to employ him.
He has for fate, several carriages almost
finilhed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, bung on steel springs, a ligl t phston for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6,1794. m&t3m
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the subscriber has been duly ap
pointed Administratrix on the estate o!
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, ill the county of Sutfolk, decealed, and
has taken upon herielf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law directs—and all persons in.
terefted, are defircd to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
ALL persons who have anvdemands against
the Eftatr of his late Excellency JOHN
HAVCOC'K, Eq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subfcriher, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who stand indebted to said Estate, are
rcouelted tofetile with h-m immeJialeh; as the
Ast of Limitation of Actions, which is to take
place on the firfl [Uy of December next, ill
otherwise rer.de' it neceflary for him 10 c >m
mence suits against them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Adminifiratrix.
Bofton,Nov. 13, 1793.
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requested to insert this in their
refpeftive newspapers, and forward their ac
count! for the fame, tu J. M
Pcale's Museum,
The scull of 3 Whale and one of its Vertebres.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
Take Notice.
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given, that there will
be paid at the Bank, after the sixteenth
instant, to the Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty cents for each (hare, being the dividend
declared for the last fix months.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cafliier.
3<r
ALL persons having any de
mands against the eitate ot GhOßGfc
WIBLE, late ot the ciiy of Philadelphia, baker,
arc rcqucftcd to bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated ; and thole who are indebted, are
desired to make immediate payment.
HENRY REhS, Aminiflrator.
2aw3w,
January 13.
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHED,
Bv THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookl'eßer, at the Stone House, in Second-
itreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Of A ts, Sciences, and Mifcellaneouj
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
Br WHICH
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are digejled into the form of
Diftinft Treaties or Systems :
THIS volume contains principles#!'Levels,
Liberty, DuJlrine of Light-, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, Hiftorv of Lon
don, Longitude, Luther, Lvdia, Macedon,
Madagalcar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Ma", Marriage, Marv, Maryland,
Mafonrv, Materia Medica, Meadmv, Mecha
nics, with a great vaiiety of Bingiaph cal and
Miscellaneous articles, illultraud with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number of families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known wh«
areretuined. T. D<tbfon, solicits the favor
of the subscribers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be Supplied as early as
poilible.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public; but as it makes
its appearance in an imperfetf state, some ac
conni of the reason of that impel feftion (hould
be > iven. On the Bth of September lad, the
Publiflser had-the misfoitune of having his
Printing Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, aftd a great
quantity of his printing materials deflroyrd,
and among other articles, the figures, with
which he was printing the tables of lo
garithms, be'onging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence of the tire.
As a Supply oi these could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the neceflity of pub
lifliing the volume without the e tables; but
hopes he (hall be able to publish them with the
next volume which is now in considerable for-
wa-cinefs.
The Publiflier embraces this opportunity of
expreflmg his grateful acknowltdpments to
the generous public, for the very libei al pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes th» li
berty of representing to fiich of the fubfcnbcrt
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible neceffiry cf
punctuality, both in takjn R up .he volumes a*
early as pofltble after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the sub.
(bribers having got only one, two, three, kc.
volumes, and leveral volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different flages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpmd lays the Publisher under
very serious embarraffinent, and deprives him
of the ufeof many Thoufandsnf Dollars which
at this time would be of very eflential service.
For these reasons the Publisher finds himfclt
under the neceflity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those wh»
take and pay to the time of publication.
Derrmher u. 2awtlJ.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, W.ll-ftreet, New-York
THE Subfcnber intending to confinr h'mfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b,gs leave t„ „f
hr his fervicesto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may plrafe
to favor him with their business, may d. p- lui
upon having it tranfafled with the uimoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or anr
other part of the United State-, will be flnair
attended to. LEONARD BI.KECKL'R
Cj* Terms of Sulfcription for this
Gazette, are Six Delias per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Sulfcriptions of perfont
•who rejide at a diflance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of pullication.
Advertifemcnts of r.nefquare, or left, m
fertedfour timet for Onq Dollar—or.ee, for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Tiveutr
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line, and Snlfcripr
tions, will be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourth-Jlrret,Jive doors north of lie
Indian Queen
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.