E
VENING ADVE
[No. 57 of Vol, V.]
Jamaica,^
An Ast for giving validity in this Island to
Probates to be taken 9 by certain Officers
in the United States of America, of D'.edf
to be there executed, and also to Exempli-
fications of Wills there proved*
WHEREAS, since the reparation from the
crown of Great-Britain of the late co
lonies, now called the United States of Ame
rica, great inconveniences have arisen to many
of his Majelty's fubjeefcs occafronally residing
in those States, for want of a legal provision
refpe&ing the probates and acknowledgments
of deeds executed in the said States, and in
tended to operate in this island : For remedy
whereof, we, your Majesty's dutiful and loyal
fubjertsj tire Lieutenant-Governor, Council,
and AfTembly of this your Majcfty's island of
Jamaica, humbly beseech your Majefly that
it may be ena&cd ; Be it therefore erased,
and it is her :by ena&cd and ordained by the
authority of the fame, That, from and im
mediately after the palling of this ad\, any
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed
vhatfoever, which shall be hereafter executed
in any of the United States of America, and
lh.aU be .proved by a fubferibing witness, or
acknowledged by the party or parties, before
.any cf his Majcfty's Consuls or Vice-Consuls
reftdmg in any of those States, or before the
Chief Jufik eof any of the said States, or be
fore the Chief Jnftice or any of the Judges of
the Supreme Court of the said United States,
and certified underthe seal of any of the Jaid
Slates, or the seal of the said United States,
shall be, and the fame is hereby declared to
be, as good and efte<Shial in the law as if such
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed,
had been refpedlively proved or acknowledged
"before a Judge ©f ar.y court of record in this
island ; any law, custom, or usage, to the con
trary notwithstanding : —Prowled .always,
That in all cases wherein the right or property
of any woman under coverture is intended
to be conveyed, she shall be examined separate
and apavt from her liufband, by the Judge
who att< fts the probate, and the said examina
tion (hal! be certified in like manner as is prac
tiled in Great-Britain or in this Island.
11. And he it further ena<sied by the autho
rity aforcfaid, That the probate of any last
will and tc ftament, tiiken before any officer
authorized to take probates of wills in any of
t} e iaid States, and exemplified un>}er the
ft.:l of the State where such probate lhall have
been t;:ken, (hall be, and the fame is hereby
declared to be, as good and effe<stual in the
law, as if luch probate had been taken before
the oi diuaiy of this island ; any law, custom,
or usage, to the contrary in any wife nqtwith
ftanding.
PajfcJ the AJfemoly thus 12 tb day of No-vem
ber, 179.;.
WILLIAM BLAKE, Speaker.
Taffed the Council, this 14tb November, 1793.
G.ATKINSON, CI. Council.
I consent, this 6ti December, 1793.
ADAM WILLIAMSON.
Vera copia extur. G. Atkinson, Sec.
* * Tb e A merica n Printers are requested
to publish this a& in their several newspapers.
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Mritr H'miCc.'No. a\, South Semnrtiftreet,
f Price three-eighths of a dollar)
THE
Speeches of Mr. Smith,
OF SOUTH-CAROLINA.
Dcliwtfrd in the House of Representatives of
the United State*, in January, 1794, on the fuh
j< 6t ol crriain Commercial Regulations,
proposed by M». Madison, in ihc committee
ol the whole, on the report of the Secretary of
State.
To which is annexed,
A TABLE,' exhibiting the Compa
* aTivi footing im ihr Commerce of the
Uniieri S;a 'wiih the Dominions of France
and Great-Britain, prior to the pending Rcvo
liil <> of Ft ncc.
dlf
Febrn#r\ t 5,
FOR SALE.
By MATHFW CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street J
An EfTay on Slavery:
to exhibit in a new point oi view.
i's (Hitts on indujiry, and the peace of
Jixtety. Some fadts and calculation* are offered
to prove the labor of freemen to be much more
produfJive than thai ot Jlaves ; thai countrus are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion a.< the
Üboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
4 <bm ; and hence the D-ofT'ty conclusion, that
flivary is inpelilk as wrll *s unjuji.
d;f
Prick Cent*.
February 15.
io£ tfje Iftnifcd Jp>
City Commissioners Office,
... r , January 30,1794.
I i\ punuance of a Reloivc ot the Common
A Council, dated the 2C|h dav of January,
1794, for dividing ihe Citv into five Diftrifts,
by lines drawn Eall and Wffl, whereof each 01
the City Commissioners is to take ihe fu per in
tends* nee of one of the said Dillnfts, and to be
accountable lor the cleansing, good order and
rcgwlarii
TI-p Oomniiflionrrs havr accordingly made
ihr hnlow-n<! ninn loi the picket :
/Hjinii the iji. Nail un Roys. to have the
cbaif.. of I hof p.irtot tin Itim*, Umrsand allrya
from C< dar.ftrcct, to ill- no»th ol Spiacc
ft»ert ¥
Dijiut7 the 2d. Hugh Roberts, from the north
fide of Sprtici-flreet to the north fide ot Walnut
street.
Dijirifl the id Joseph Clavponle, from the
nor/h fiac ol Walnut to the louth iidf of High
ttreef.
Dijlrifl the 4th. William from the
north tide ot High, to the noith fide cf Mulberry
flrcet
Dijlritl the s th. Nicholas Hicks, ftom ihe
north tide of Mulbcuy,to nor*h.Tide of Vine
ftrcet.
N T B. The carriage way in Matk i-ftrcet, is
jinder the charge of the Qommifli .i.cis general!v,
for the present, the foOUways on the north and
south fi(*r> »hf >eof, are netted with the ad
joining D< (iritis r. fpcfttvcly.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogi.cais and in cjfts.of 50 bottles each.
A L. a 0.,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipts, h'ojjth. ads-and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
Jan. a, 1794.
Parry and JVlufgrave,
Goldfmitbs Sff "Jcw&llersy
No. 42,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant Assortment of
SILVER iff PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY &CUTLERY,
Which they will difpwTe of on the moll rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, done as u'ual.
December 24.
A large elegant Ho use,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
law, or 42 acres of Jand and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of tiie city, in size or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23.
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Coffee-Houfe of this
City :—
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shij>pcn-strtet fbt
tween Third and Fourth-Streets, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timfnons, which
has lately been greatly improved, «nd is now
very commod'ous ; where he has turnifhed him
fcll wiih the best of LIQUORS, and will fur
nifh a TABLE for Parties, with the best provi
ftons the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
Uiorteft notice. From his long experience in
this line of business, he flatters himfelf be (hall
be able to give fatisfa&ion to all who may pleafc
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 2911794.
THE Trufteesof an Academy,
or any individual wilhing to engage a
per.on to superintend the Education of"youth,
in the course of studies usually adopted iu
Academies, or any branch of bu fine Is requir
ing fimilnr qualification*, may ofen a com
munication with a person willing to he em
ployed a few years (for a generous compehfa
rion) by writing (letters to be polt paid) to
Mr. John Fenno, Philadelphia.
Printers to the Southward ivculd f>o]Jibly
obhge fame of theirjrie*)d% t by wjenwig thejortgoing
ajrtv t/m,« in their popen.
FiiiuuT\ 8. diit
Monday, February 17, 1794.
of t he fjme,
Zxt'-'P fro>>? the S'.ivt. t r.
JOHN MEASE, CM.
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front It/eet,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
mw&rftf
TO BE SOLD,
m&th— tf
AND
Congress of the United States.
IN SENATE,
Friday, February 7.
The following written meflage was re
ceived from the President of the United
States by Mr. Dandridge his Secretary.
United States, February 7, 1794.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of
the House of Representatives.
I transmit to you an ast and three or
dinances, paffedby the government of the
territory of the United States fowth of
the river Ohio, on the 13th and 21ft of
March, and 7th of May 1793. —And al
so certain letters from the Minister Pleni
potentiary of the French Republic to the
Secretary of State, enclosing dispatches
from the general and extraordinary com
mifilon of Gaudaloupe.
G. WASHINGTON.
The menage and papers therein referred
to w'qie read.
Ordered, That the ast and three ordi
nances mentioned in the mefTage be refer
red to th? committee appointed the 2111
of January lalt, to whom were referred
the passed in the territory north-welt
of the Ohio, to coniider and report there
on to the Senate.
Ordered,. That the other papers refer
red to in the meflage, lie for consideration,
The Senate proceeded to the third read
ing of the hill, feut from the House of
Representatives for concurrence, entitled,
" an ast providing for the relief of such
of the inhabitants of S. Domingo, resident
within the United States, as may be found
in want of fupportwhereupon,
Resolved, That this bill pass as amend
ed-
Ordered, That the Secretary desire the
concurrence of the House of Reprefenta
tivea in the amendment to this bill.
On motion,
Resolved, That the resolution pafled
yesterday, on the report of the committee
appointed to consider the last paragraph
of the mefiage of the President of the
United States, of the 30th of December
last, be re-considered.
Ordered, That Mr. Burr, Mr, Ellf
worth and Mr. King, be a committee to
take into consideration the meflage from
the President of the United States of the
30th December, and that the committee
be directed to report a bill to cany the
fame into execution.
The Vice President laid before the Se
nate a letter from the Treafurerof the U
nited States with his war department ac
count, which were read.
Ordered, That they lie on the table.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock on
Monday morning.
Monday, Feb. 10, 1794.
The Vice President laid before the Se
nate, a letter from the Secretary for the
department of the Treasury. in reference
to the orders of Senate of the 13th of
January last, for a return of fnndry state
ments from that department, which letter
was read.
Mr. Bradley reported from the commit
tee, to whom was referred the petition of
Conrad Laub and others, refpe&ing the
appointment of Mr, Gallatin a Senator of
the United States, and the report was
read.
On motion,
Ordered, That Wednesday next be as
signed to take this report into confidera
ti on, and that in the mean time it be prin
ted for the use of the Senate.
On motion,
That the Senate adopt the following
resolution—
Resolved, That the doors of the Senate
be opened and continue *>pen, during the
difcuflion upon the contested election of
Albert Gallatin.
Ordered, That this motion lie on the
table until to-morrow.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Lambert, their clerk
being detained by ficknefe.
iclti'o
R T I S E R.
[Whole No. 515.J
" Mr. President, The House of Re?
prefentatives concur in the amendment of
the Senate to the bill, entitled, " An a&
providing for the relief of such of the ill
habitants of Saint Domingo, resident with
in the United States, as may be found
in want of support,"—and he withdrew.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Mr. Strong from the committee ap
pointed the 24th of December last, to
consider that part of the speech of the Pre
sident of the United States, which recom
mends further provision againlt offences,
reported a bill, which was read the firft
time.
Ordered, That this bill pafa to the se
cond reading.
A motion was made,
That the petition of Conrad Laub and
others, citizens of Pennsylvania, stating
that Albert Galiatm had not been more
than eight years a citizen of the United
States, at the time of his ele&ion as a
Senator, is fufficient, as well in refpeft to
the competency of the petitioners, as in
refpeft to the matter alledged in the peti
tion, to authorize the Senate to enquire
and decide, whether the said Albert Gal
latin had been a citizen of the United
States, the term of years required by the
constitution, as a qualification to be a Se
nator of the United States.
Ordered, That this motion lie until
to-morrow.
Oon motion,
Ordered, That the letter of the Secre
tary for the department of the Treasury,
communicated yeftcrday, be referred to
Mr. Gallatin, Mr. EllfwOrth and Mr.
Taylor, to consider and report thereon to
the Senate.
Mr. Vining from the joint committee
on enrolled bills reported, that they had
examined the bill, entitled, "An a& pro
viding for the relief of such of the inha
bitants of St. Domingo, resident within
the United States, as may be found in
want of support," and that it was duly
enrolled.
A mcflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Lambert, their clerk
being detained by sickness.
" Mr. President, The Speaker of the
House of Representatives having signed
an enrolled bill, I am dire&ed to briin
it to the Senate, for the fignaturc of the
Vice President." And he withdrew.
The Vice-President signed the last men
tioned enrolled bill, and it was delivered
to the committee on enrolled bills, to be
laid before the President of the United
States, for his approbation.
On motion,
That the Secretary for the department
of the Treasury be desired to report to
the Senate on the petition of Arthur
Hughes, referred to him during the last
session.
It was agreed that the motion lie on
the table until to-morrow.
Agreeable to the order of the day, the
Senate took into consideration the motion
made yesterday, that the doors of the Se
nate be opened during' the difcuflion of the
contested election of Mr. Gallatin.
Whereupon
Resolved, That the doors of the Se
nate he opened, and continue open, du
ring the discussion upon the conteftcd
eleition of Albert Gaiiatin.
Mr. Bradley reported from the com
mittee, to whom v.as referred the ast and
three ordinances, mentioned in themeff g-e
of the Prelident of the United States of
the 7th inflant, enacted and ordained by
the Governor and Judges of the territory
south of the river Ohio, " that Congrefj
do not disapprove the fame"—and the re
port was agreed to.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Tuesday, February 11CONGRESS.
lieuft of R > f/ila-'iw'
Jauuary 2'i
fit ioMmtUce cf the n boU on Mr, ftfiulifons
rtjtAutions.
Mr. A m es (poke ax follows
Tiie qucftion lies within this eompafi,
Is there any mejfure proper to be adoptid
by Cungrtls, which will have the effect to
put our trade and navigation on a better
footing ? If there is, it is our undoubted
right to adopt it; if by right is »nder
ltood the power of felf-governrr.ent which
every independent nation pofleffet, and our
own as completely as any other. It is
our duty alio, for we are the depolitories
and the guardians of the intereils of our
confJtucnts, which on every confidera
tiori ought to be dear to us. I make no
<t they are so, and that there is adif-
fufficicntly ardent exiiting in this
body to co-operate in any meaiures for
for the advancement of the common good.
Indeed io fai a; I can judge fiom any know
ledge I have of human nature or ol the
prevailing spirit of public tranlaftions,
that fort of patriotism, which makes us
w!(h the general profptrity when our pri
vate inurjft dees not happen to (land la the
way, is no uncommon sentiment.- In
tiu'.h, it is very like felf-love and net
leis mucli prevalent. There is little occa
sion to excite and inflame it. It is like
lt!f-love, more apt to want intelligence
than zeal. The danger is always that it
will refh blindly into embarrafiments,
which a pnrdent spirit of enquiry might
have prevented, but from which it will
icarcely find means to extricate us. While
therefore, the right, the duty, and the
inclination to advance the trade and navi
gation of the United States, are acknow
ledged and felt by us all—the choice of
the proper means to that end, is a matter
requiring the molt ciYcv.mfpeit enquiry,
and the rnoft dilpallicnate judgment.
After a debate has continued a long
time, the fubjeit very frequently becomes
tirefeme befoie it is exhauftid. Argu
ments, however solid, urged by different
speakers can scarcely fail to render the
clifcuflion both cothpiex and diffufive—
without pretending to give to rr.y r.rgu
ments any other merit, I frail aim at
fimplioity.
We hear it declared, that the design of
the refutations is to place our trade and
navjgation on a better footing. Bv a
better footing, we are to understand a
more profitable one. Profit is a plain
v ortl that cannot be mifrepreftnted.—
We have, to speak in round numbers)
twenty millions dollars of exports annual
ly. To have the trade ]of export on a
good footing, meant nothing more than
to fell them dear—and conlcquently the
trade of impoit on a good footing, is to
buy cheap. To put them both on a bet
ter footing, is to fell dearer and to buy
cheaper than we do at present. If the
effect of the resolutions will be tt> cause
our exports to be fold cheaper, and our
imports to be bought dearer, our trade
v. ill fuffer an injury.
It is hard to compute how great the
injury would prove : for the firft loss of
value in the buying dear, and felling cheap,
is only the symptom and beginning of
the evil, but by no means the measure of
it—lt will withdraw a great part of the
nouriflnnent that now supplies the wonder
fnl growth of our industry and opulence.
The difference may not amount to a great
proportion of the pi ice of the articles, but
it may reach the greater part of the pro
fit of the producer—lt may have efte£ts
ill this way which will be of the word
kind, by difcoui aging the produfls of our
land and industry. It is to this test I
propose to bring the resolutions on the
table, and if it (liall clearly appear that
they tend to canfe our exports to be fold
cheaper, and our imports to be bought
dearer, they cannot escape condemnation.
V\ hatever specious shew of advantage may
be given them, they deserve to be called
aggravation* of any real or supposed evils
in our commercial system, and not reme
dies.
I have framed this flatement of the
qiieftion so as to comprehend the whole
fubjeet of debate, and at the fame time, I
confcfs it was my design to exclude from
conlideration, a number of topics which
•ppcar to me totally irrelative to it.
The best answer to many aflerti
on» we have heard, is to admit them
without proof. We are exhorted to ifiert
our uatural rights, to put trade on a rcfpec
tjole iUt'.i.igi to dictate rtiirw of trade to
uther nations, to in a contctt of
feli'-den.sl, and by that, and by Ihiitiiig
our commerce from one country to ano
ther, to make our enemies feel the extent
of our power. This language, as it ref
ptct» the proper fubjett of dilcullion, means
nothtng, or wiiat is worse. If our trade ig
already on a profitable footing, it is on a
respectable one. Unlcfs war he our object,
it is ufelels to enquire, what are the dil
politions of any government, with whose
lubjeds our merchants deal to the bell ad
vantage ! While they will smoke our to
bacco, and eat our proviiioi.s, it is very
immaterial, both to the consumer and the
producer, what are the politics of the two
countries, excepting so far as their quar
rels may dillraft the benefits of their mu
tual intercourse.
So far therefore as commerce is concern
ed, the enquiry is, have we a good market ?
The good or bad state of our etSual
market is the quellion. The a&ual mar
ket is every where more or less a reftrifted
one, and the natural order of things is
chlMaced by the artificial—Moll nations
so / rcafons of which they alone are the
rightful judges, have regulated and ref
t ricked tlieir intercotirfe, accoiding to their
views of fafety and profit. We claim for
ourlelves the fame right, as the acts in
our (latutc book, and the refolutione on
the table evince, without holding ourselves
accountable to any other nation whatever.
The right which we properly claim, and
which we properly exercise when we do
it prudently and ulefujly for our nation,
is as well ellablilhed, and has been longer
in life in the countries of which wc com
plain, than in our own. If their right is
as good as that of Congress, to regulate
and rcftric*, why do we talk of a strenuous
exertion of our force, and by dictating
terms to nations, who are fancied to be
phyfrcally dependenton America, tochange
the policy of nations ? It may be very
true, that their policy is very wife and
good for themselves, but not as favorable
for us as we could make it, if we could
Legislate for both fides of the Atlantic.
The extravagant despotism of this lan
guage accords very ill with our power to
give it c'ietl, or with the affectation of
zeal for an unlimited freedom of com
merce. Such a (late of absolute freedom
of commerce never did exist, and it is very
much to be doubted whether it ever will.
Were I inverted with the trust to legislate
for mankind, it is very probable the firft
ast of my authority would be to throw all
the reftriftive and prohibitory lawsof trade
into the fire—the resolutions on the table
would not be spared. But if 1 were to
do so, it is probable I (hould have a quar
rel on my hands with everv civilized na
tion. The Dutch would claim the mono
poly of the spice trade, for which their
ancestors pasTed their whole lives in war
fare. The Spaniards and Portuguese
would be no less obilinate. If we calcu
late what colony monopolies have colt in
wealth, in fufFering, and in crimes, we
frail fay they were dearly purchased
The Englilh would plead for their navi
gation ast, not as a source of gain, but as
an eflential mean of securing their inde
pendence. So many interests would be
disturbed, and so many loft, by a violent
change from the existing, to an unknown
order of things, and the mutual relations
of nations, in refpeft to their power and
wealth, would fuffer such a (hock, that
the idea must be allowed to be perfectly
Utopian and wild. But for this country
to form the project of changing the policy
of nations, and to begin the abolition of
rellriftions by reftriftions of its own, is
equally ridiculous and inconsistent.
Let every nation, that is really disposed
to extend the liberty of commerce, beware
of rash and hasty schemes of prohibition.
In the affairs of trade, as in moll others,
we make too many laws. We follow ex
perience too little, and the visions of theo-
great deal too much. Instead of
listening to discourses on what the market
ought to be, and what the fchemet,which
always proinife much on paper, pretend
to make it, let us fee what it the actual
market for our exports and imports. This
will bring vague affertiont and sanguine o
piniom to the test of experience. That
rage for theory and fyllem, which would
entangleVven practical truth in the web
of the brain, it the poison of public dif
cuffioo—One fad is better than two sys
tems.
The terms on which our exports are re
ceived in the Britifli market, have been
accurately examined by a gentleman from
South Carolina (Mr. Wm. Smith) Be
fore Iks ilutemunt ot facts was made to
the committee, it was urged, and with
no little warmth, that the system of Eng
land indicated her invetcracy towards this
country, while that of France, springing
from diiinterefted affection, cojiftituted a
claim for gratitude and felf-denying mea
sures of retribution.
Since that statement, however, that ro
mantic (lyle, which is so ill adapted to
the fubjedt, has been changed. We
hear it insinuated, that the comparison of
the footing of our exports, in the mar
kets of France and England, is of no im
portance ; that it is chiefly our object to
fee how we may assist and extend our com
merce. This evaiion of the force of the
statement, or rather this indirect admiffi
-011 of its authority, eftablilhes it. It will
not be pretended that it has been fliaken
during the debate.
It has been made appear, beyond con
tradiction, that the Briti(h market fur our
exports, taken in the aggregate, is a good
one, that it is better than the French,and
better than any we have, and for many
of our products the only one.
The whole amount of our exports to
the British dominions in the year ending
the 30th September 1790, was nine mil
lions two hundred and forty fix thousand
fix hundred and fix dollars.
But it will be more simple and fatisfac
tory to confine the enquiry to the articles
following—
Bread-ftuff, tobacco, rice, wood, the
produce of the fifheries, fi(h oil, pot and
pearl ash, salted meats, indigo, live ani
mals, flaxfeed, naval stores, and iron.
The amount of the before mentioned
articles exported in that fame year, to the
British dominions, was 8,457,173 dol
lars.
Mr. Ames went into a consideration of
the footing on which they are received.—
He then said, we have heard so much of
reftri&ion* of inimical and jealous pro
hibitions to cramp our trade, it is natu
ral to scrutinize the Britilh system with
the expe&ation of finding little besides the
effects of her felfifh and angry policy.
Yet of the great sum of nearly eight
millions and an half, the amount of the
products before mentioned fold in her mar
kets, two articles only are dutied by way
of reftri&ion. Bread ftuff is dutied so
high in the market of Great Britain, as
in times of plenty, to exclude it, and this
is done from the desire to favor her own
farmers. The mover of the resolutions
juftified the exclusion of our bread ftuff
from the French Weft Indies by their
permanent regulations, because he said
they were bound to prefer their own pro
ducts to those even of the United States.
It would seem that the fame apology would
do for England, in her home market.
But what will do for the vindication of one
nation becomes invedtive against another.
The criminal nation however ieceives our
bread ftuff in the Weft-Indies free, and
excludes other foreign—fo as to give our
producers the monopoly of the supply.
This is no merit in the judgment of the
mover of the resolutions, because it is a
fragment of her old colony system. Not
withstanding the nature of the duties on
bread ftuff in Great Britain, it has been
clearly Ihewn that she is a better customer
for that article, in Europe, than her neigh
bor France. The latter, in ordinary times,
is a poor customer for bread ftuff, for the
fame reason that our own country is, be
cause she produces it herfelf, and there
fore France permits it to be imported
and the United States do the like Great
Britain often wants the article, and then
she receives it—no country can be expect
ed to buy what it does not want. The
bread-ftuff fold in the European dominions
of Great Britain in the year 1790, amount
ed to 1,087,840 dollars.
Whale-oil pays the heavy duty of eigh
teen pounds three shillings sterling per
ton ; yet spermaceti-oil found a market
there to the value of 81,048 dollars.
Thus it appears that, of eight milli
ons and an half fold to Great Britain and
her dominions, only the value of one mil
lion one hundred and sixty-eight thousand
dollars was under duty of a reftriftive na
ture. The bread-duff it certainly to be
considered as within the description yet
to give the argument its full force, what
is it—about one-eighth part is reftriaed
—To proceed with the residue :
Indigo to the amount of
Live animals to the W. Indies
Flax-Seed to Great Britain
Total 756,169
Tbefe articles are received, duty free,
which is a good foot to.the trade. Yet
we find, good as it is, the bulk of our ex
ports is received on even better terms :
Flour to the British W. Indies
Grain - - - 273,505
Free—while other foreign flour and grain
is prohibited.
Tobacco to G. Britain 2,754,493
Ditto to the W* Indies 22,816
One (hilling and three pence fterlmg, du
ty —three (hillings and fix-pence on o
ther foreign tobacco.
In the Weft-Indies other foreign to
bacco is prohibited.
Rice to G. Britain 773*852
7s 4d. per Cwt. duty; Bs. iod. on other
foreign rice.
To Weft-Indies
Other foreign rice prohibiten
Wood to Great Britain
Free—higher duties on other foreign.
To Weft-Indies - - 382,4s
Free—other foreign prohibited.
Pot and peail-aflies - 747,078
Free—2s. 3d. on other foreign, equal to
10 dollars per ton.
Naval stores to Great Britain 190,670
Higher duties on other foreign.
To Welt-Indies
Free—other foreign prohibited,
Iron to Great Britain
Free—duties on other foreign
Dollars 6,510,92 6
Thus it appears, that nearly seven
eighths of the exports to the Britifli do*
minions are received on terms of pofitiwe
favor. Foreigners, our rivals in the sale
of these articles, are either abfolutelv
(hut out of their market by prohibitions,
or discouraged in their competition with
us by higher duties. There is some
reftridtion, it is admitted, but there is,
to balance it, a large amount received du
ty free. The above surplus of fix mil
lions and an half, goes to the account of
privilege and favor. This is better than
she treats any other foreign nation it it
better, indeed, than she treats her own
fubjedls, because they are by this means,
deprived of a free and open market it
is better than our footing with any na
tion, with whom we have treaties. It
has been demonstratively (hewn, that it is
better than the footing on which France
receives either the like articles, or the ag
gregate of our produdts—the best proof
in the world is, that they are not sent to
France—the merchants will find out the
best market sooner than we {hall.
The footing of our exports, under the
Britifti system, is better than that of their
exports to the United States, under our sys
tem. Nay it is better than the freedom f
commerce, which is one of the visions for
which our solid prosperity is to be hazardtd
—For fuppofew.-could batter down lier sys
tem of prohibitions and reftrifKons, it would
be gaining a loss—one-eighth is reftridted, and
more than fix-eights has reftrii£tions in its fa
vor. It is as plain as figures can make it, that
if a state of freedom for our exports is par,
the present system raii'es them, in point of
privilege, above par. To suppose that vc
can terrify them, by these resolutions, to
abolish their reltriilions, and at the fame
time to maintain in our favor their duties, to
exclude other foreigners from their market,
is too absurd to be refuted.
We have heard that the market of France
is the great centre of our inter ells—we are
to look to her, and not to England, for ad
vantages—Being, as the style of theory i„
our bell cuflomer and bell friend, ihewino- to
our trade particular favor and privilege,
while England manir'efts in her fvftem such
narrow and felfilh views ; it is 11 range to re
mark such a pointed refutation of aflertjons
and opinions by facts. The amount sent ro
France herfelf is very trivial; either our mer
chants are ignorant of the belt markets, or
those which they prefer are the bell—and if
the Englilh markets, in spite of the illcdgeJ
ill-usage, are Hill preferred to the French, it
is a proof of the superior advantages of tli ■
former over the latter. The arguments T
have adverted to, oblige those who urge them
to make a greater difference in favor of the
Englilh than the true state of fad's " ill war
rant. Indeed, if they persist in their argu
ments, they are bound to deny their own
conclusions. They are bound to admit this
pofition—lf France receives little of such of
our produdls as Great Britain takes on term.,
of privilege and favor, because of that favor
it " Hows the value of that favored footing.
If France takes little of our articles, becauli
she does not want them, it (hews the nbfur
dity of looking to her as the befl ciiiamtr.
It may be fsid, and truly, lhat Great Bri
tain regards only her ov.x l interest in tfcefir
arrangements—So much the better. If it
is her interest to rfford to our commerce
more etumuragraeat than France fives, if
Ihe does tins whoi Hit is inveterate again#
us, as it is alletlgcd, and vrheoL ive arc in
Dollars.
473.830
62,415
219,924
180,087
240,174
6,t62
81,012dufging an aroused hatred towards her and
partiality towards France, it shews that we
have very solid ground to rely on. Her inte
rell is, according to this itatement, stronger
than our paifions, stronger than her own,
and is the more to be depended on as it can
not be put to any more trying experiment in
future. The good will and friendlhip of na
tions are hollow foundations to build our sys
tems upon. Mutu;»l interest is a bottom of
rock. The fervor of transient sentiments is
not better than straw or Hubble. Some gen
tlemen have lamented this distrust of any
relation between nations except an inter eft ed
one. But the substitution of any other prin
ciple could produce little else than the hypo
enfy of sentiment, and an inltability of af
fairs. It would be relying on what is not
liable, instead of what is It would in
troduce into politics the jargon of romance
—It is in this sense and this only, that the
word favor is used. A state of things so
arranged as to produce our profit and advan
tage, though intended by Great-Britain
merely for her own. The disposition of a
nation is immaterial, the fad that we pro
fit by their fyitem cannot be so to this dif
cufiion.
The next point is to consider whether our
imports are on a good footing, or in other
words, whether we are in a situation to buy
what we have occasion for at a cheap rate,
in this view, the systems of the commercial
nations are not to be complained of, as all
are desirous of felling the produtfts of their
labour. Great Brifam is not censured in
this refpe<fl. The obje<slion is rather of th,e
opposite kind that we buy too c&eap anjj
therefore eonfume too much,arid that we take
not only as much as we can pay for, but to
the extent of our credit aUo. There is lets
freedom of importation, however, from the
Weft Indies —in this refpeel, France is more
reftri&ive than England —for the .former al
lows the exportation to us of only rum and
molaflfes, while England admits that,of su
gar, coffee, and other principal Weft India
produ<sls. Yet, even here, when the pre
ference seems to be decidedly due to the Bri
tilh system, occasion is taken to extol that of
the French. We are tolcl that they fell us
the chief part of the mobiles j which is con -
fumed, or manufactured into rum—and that
a great and truly important branch, the dil
tHlery, is kept up by their liberality in fiir
nifhing the raw material. There is,, ?t every
ft'ep, matter to confirm the remar#, that
nations have framed their regulations to fu|J:
their own interests, not ours—France is a
great brandy manufacturer. She will not ad
mit rum therefor,e.eveu fromher own islands,
because it would supplant the consumption
of brandy* The molalfes was for that reaf n
some years ago of no value in her islands, and
was not even saved in calks. But the de
mand from America soon raised its value.
The policy of England has been equally fel
fifh. moiafies is distilled in her
because lhe has no manufacture of brandy
to fuffer bv its sale.
(Speech To be continued.)
UNITED STATES.
AUGUSTA, Jan, 18.
On Saturday last, Major Robrrt For
syth, Marshal lor the State [Diftrift]
of Georgia, was killed in the execution
of his office, at the house of Mrs. Dixon
in this place, by Beverly Allen of South-
Carolina. A (ketch of the particulars
is as follows : Major Forfyth being about
to serve the aforefaid Allen with a writ :
From a principle of delicacy, aflced him
out of the room, where there were several
gentlemen present, upon business in which
the fa id Allen was interested ; —he aflTent
ed, and perhaps added these words " with
pleasure —but instead of following, he
aflced some one apart, " is not that Ma
jor Forfyth ?"—being answered in the
affirmative, he inquired about the key of
the room opposite, and having obtained
it, he retired thither; —in the interim the
Major had made service of a writ on
William Allen, brother to the said Bever
ly, and had granted him some period of
indulgence—this, was spent in the room
to which his brother had retired, and af
ter being elapsed, the Major going up
flairs reminded William that his time was
expired, (MefTrs. Richards and Randolph,
a&ing as Deputy Marshals, were now at
the room door and prevented its being
entirely (hut, which was the object of ex
ertion within) and Major Forfyth ad
vancing towards the door, was told by
Beverly Allen, " if he came further, (or
words to that effed) he would blow his
brains out," which, said Allen, it is as
serted by diiinterelled and refpe&able
persons present, at the' fame instant dis
charged a pistol through the opening of
the door, and verified his fatal threat by
killing the Marshal on the spot.
Thus fell, a facrifice to his delicacy, by
tiie hand of a wretch, to fill up the mea
sure of whose iniquities, it feem'd only to
want an a& of such atrocity, a man whose
cbara&er is highly revered by all who had
the pleasure of his acquaintance, whose
a&ive, social, chearful and benevolent turn
of mind rendered him an ufeful and plca
fant member of society, and whose remo
val from this scene of things, affords a
molk striking and inftru&ivc lesson of mor-
tality.
He was Interred in the Church-yard
here on Monday with every vefpedt which
could be paid him, in a public or private
capacity : Being, at the time of his de
cease, Deputy-Grand-Master of the State,
as well as Pa It-Mailer of the Lodge-Co
lumLia, a numerous proceflion of the bre
thren accompanied his remains, and depo
sited them in the houj'e appointed far all
living.
SAVANNAH, Jan. 18,
The fchponer Eonita, of Baltimore,
Win, Montgomery, mailer, left the Ha
vannah the sth inlfc. and arrived here the
13th. The/hips Europa, of Philadelphia
ar.d fJe\y York Packet, both arrived at
the Havmnah, tlie sth; next Jay the
6th, off the Mataflzas, capt. Montgome
ry spoke the brig Sally, of Newport,
Ward, maflet, with flatca...For the Ha
vannah, who would arrive the fame day.
American veflels left at the Havannah,
the lliip Jones, and the brigs
Hannibal, Copyingham, and -Hol
land, all of Philadelphia.
BALTIMORE, February 12.
From a London Paper. *
. The Danes have erp&cd a most confpt
puous light-huufe, on the iilaikl of Aiir
halt ; it is of. a cylindrical form, 50 Dan
ish ells in heighth, &32 in circumference ;
on the summit is placed a furnacje or grate,
two feet nine inches in height, and five
Feet in diameter ; so that the flame being
stronger, and more than double the former
Altitude, will be observed at a much greater
dillanee. The edifice is 2,500 Dauifli
ells to the weft ward of the old building:
it Js 3,10p ells from the cast point of the"
island, and 36 ells above the furfacc of
th _• waier. The Danilh ell is two feet
Engfliih nearly.
On Sunday la ft arrived in this port the
(hip Charles Prince of Hefle, Jas. Lam
fing, master, from Plymouth, England.
Capt. Lamfing, on the 27th ultimo,fpoke
therfrfp Success, Capt. Alexander Bird,
ail well.
NORFOLK Fcbtuary 5.
On TKurfday last inived If re thc'Ship Juna,
Capiaiu iirice, Iroin Havr<, after a of
70 riays. EfU fht-rr the following vcflfcli :
Ships Commit de, Egerv, Kennebecklnduflry, Ha-
Ivens, Portsmouth N. H. Potomac Planter, Patfkr, A
lexindria ; Harriet, ,George Town ; Laurehs,
White, Chd'l'jton ; Thereja, Aiktufon, Philudelphia\
Grand Turk, Ingraham, Bjtflon/f tom. India) Lathe,
tine, Coffin, Bojton ; Barque Robert, Clark, Balti
more ; Snita Pacific, Dunbar, BoJlor.; Brigs Nan
cy, la Bujket, BtJ/on ; Endeavor, Prince, Bojton ;
Dolphin, . Providence, Schooner Alert,
Boflon ; Aurora, Chamtnex, Netm-York-
Enterprise, American Eajl Indiaman, (dpt.
St. Barfoj oj WiJcaJjet,jrom China bound to Ojlend.
She felt in with an EngliJb Frigate,whogjve her the
fi'fi news of a war between the French and other Ma
ritime powers ; Jhe afterwards /poke a neutral veffcl,
who confirmed the account. ani added that a rupture
was about to take place between America and Great
Britain ; and it was expelled that Holland would
tj/te a part—ln consequence oj the above, the Captain
thought it mojl p'udent to put into Havre, where her
(aroo cerjijhng oj Sugar & Nankeens, was Jeized on
as being butch proper ty, andJeals put u pon all her
papers.
On the 16th. January, in fat. ,35,,29- fang.6Bs.
foohe the brig Cumberland, Capt. Peter Sigourney,
Jrom Bojlon, bound to Philadelphia, having been
blown ojf the coajl — been out 38 days, had
sprung a leak y .loJt her foremajl, and had 3 feet wa
ter in her hold. They were in great dijlrefs for the
want of bread and water, not having a biscuit 01
board, (apt. Brice towed the Brig Jor 6 o hours,
with a view ojjuving us much of the cargo as he pof
jfbly could ; but the Jea running jo that it tie'
came dangerous to keep her in tow any longer, they
cut he r after taking Capt. Sigourney and Crew
Jrom on board, with ajmall part of the cargo, con-
JiJling of candles, chocolate, betj andJhoei.
On the 3\ji. Dec. in lat. 34,,20. long.—Jpoke the
Danish jhip Providentia, oj Dram, in Norway,Jrom
Falmouth, bound to Baltimore, out 39 days.
PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 15.
The contested election of Mr. Gallatin
was the fubjeft before the Senate of the
United States this day—the doors of the
Senate Chrmber were opened on the occa
sion.
At one o'clock, on motion, the further
consideration of the business was postpon
ed till Wednesday next.
A Boston paper fays, " Mr. Madison's
Resolutions are too moderate" for some
people—" they would apply a guillotine
to our commerce, as well as to our necks,
and do every thing at a Jlro c."
Fhom Cozrfspondsnts.
Sometimes our incendiary fait ion pre
tend to be on tlie fide of the people, and
they rail with no little felf-fufficiency at
the creatures of the court. In their jargon
the people are on one fide, the court 011
the opposite. These boneft gentlemen have
found their do&rine overthrown and dis
graced by the people themselves. The
whole country took part with the Presi
dent, and this wonderful unanimity ought
to Hop their mouths. The people howe
ver, are treated as insolently as their ma
gistrates. l'or the faction allure us, that
the addreflers on the fubjeft of the Pro
clamation of Neutrality are stock-jobbers,
paper-mon, and British-agents. Fadts
(hew how little these wretches, refpeft
the people, or are supported by them.
The fame wranglers who dread the cor
rupting influence of birth-day celebrations,
behave as if they could not toait and cele
brate Genet enough. The meaning Is
plain in both inltances—they wiih to bring
one man within the reach of contempt,
and to raise the other above it—hie labor,
hoc opus eft, which is, they are knaves
'for their pains.
One of the toads of the 6th of Februa
ry, fays something about truth and inno
c.'iice. Was it not harsh and even cruel,
when Citizen Candor and Frankness was
present ? Personal insults 011 men in
public character are very unbecoming.
Question to the Demo Society if a
man is bound as a good and true Mobo
crat to hate and undermine the Republi
can Government of, his own country, how
happens it that you oblige him to swear
to be faithful and true to an anarchy,
nicknamed republican, beyond seas ? If
it be because it is anarchy, (hall we not be
forced when it (hall have ripened into a
governmsnt ro hate it for that very reason
as much as we do our own ? Being a cafe
of conscience you are requeftcd to publilh
a resolution expressly on the point.
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
I observed in Mr. Bache's paper of Sa
turday, a publication, in which the wri
ter boldly asserts that the Farmers of Ma
ryland are generally in favor of Mr. Madi
son's resolutions; how he can have obtain
ed this information to speak with the cer
tainty he has, is to me astonishing. I
have heard the sentiments of feveraljudici
ous and refpeftable farmers of that state,
and a great many citizens of other vocati
ons, which have been pointedly opposed
to the adoptien of them. 1 rather suppose
that not a twentieth part of the Maryland
Farmers have ever heard of Mr. Madison's
Resolutions, much less have given their
opinion upon them.
A Friend and Customer,
SHIP NEWS,
Arrived at Reedy-Island a few days
since, the (hip Richmod, Capt. Lee, from
Bourdeaux—which he left the 9th De
cember. Capt. Lee informs, that on the
14th December, he fpokea British priva
teer brig, from London, on a cruize—
About the jth ult, spoke the sloop Dol
phin, of Salem, from Madeira, bound to
New-York, Ihort of provisions—The 25th
ult. spoke the brig ;Sea Nymph, Peddin
of Philadelphia, 5 days from Baltimore,
bound to Falmouth, all well. Capt. Lec
also informs, that the (hip Adriana, Capt.
Robertfon, from Bilboa, arrived the 1 jth
inft. at Newcastle, Delaware, also the (hip
Apollo, Fitzpatrick, from Amsterdam, &
a brig from Chefapeake—Capt. Lee fays,
he left about 100 fail of American vessels
at Bourdeaux, under an embargo.
There are letters in town, from Balti
more, dated the 13th inft. which fey, that
a frigate had arrived at Annapolis, from
from France, on the morning of that
day—one of these letters informs, that it
was reported, the above frigate brought
an account that Toulon wai retaken again,
and Oftend evacuated.
A letter from New-York fays, that a
veflel is arrived there, in jo days from
Amsterdam—the Capt. of which informs,
that a report prevailed in Amsterdam pre
vious to his departure, that Toulon was
retaken on the 25th O&ober.
Another letter fays,the above ftiip from
Amsterdam, is the Favorite, Capt. Story j
that (he left; Amsterdam, the 7th Decem-
Ler—the Mate of which reports, that it
was generally believed at that place, that
Toulon was retaken.—-
Another letter (ays, that the Favorite
left Amflerdam the 27th. December, that
the by her are such as to leave no
doubt of the reeaptirre of Toulon, and
that the French loft 20 thousand men, in
the afiault.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in Char
leiton, to hit friend in this city, dated January
»3ih. 1794,
Permit me to address you at ehis critical moment,
and t* tnferm you that our Navigation is very muck
opprejfed in coujequence oj the Barbary ( ruijers let
out into the Atlantic, 1 will venture tdJay the extra
Premium required, to injure the American proberfy
now at risk, will amount to more than wnuld hejojji
cient to equipJhips enough to protecl our trade.
Indeed we cannot at this moment ejfeft Injur ance
on European voyages, at any premium mat trade wi.l
Jupport, and Europeans who have protedions, can
not be our camera at present, of courje the Mevenue
and the Met chants (its Jupporters) mujl be deranged.
1 amjenjibie the Lurop>an poiit.es Jrom whence
all the mijchiej flowt, mujl be perplexing even to the
collected wisdom of the United Spates, but pray let m:
beg your war mefl influence, either to have a peace
purchajed, or as many jhips equip t, as will confine,
thoje worse than pirates, at ieaj tcithin the Mediter
ranean : a vejfel has this day arrived from Cadiz, and
therefeems not a doubt from this ' formation, but
they will continue out occ ilionally all t4e winter ; some
of their Jleet were at Gibraltar watering, and by the
Month oj April it is expecled they will have Shipt in
the Britijh channel and the Wejl Indies, They have
an idea that we have not any J,hips that carry guns,
and that it will take at leajl 12 months be)ore we can
build ar.d equip any to go againjl them.
A Jew ships that are n. win the United States, if
equipt mjlantamovjlyj and pujhedfor the Streights t
m-ght perhaps d'flt oy a great part of their Jhips that
might be out, a s they cruije Jingle ; at all events, J
we can get the command of the Streights, it will pre *
pure them for a peace. I make no doubt Capt.
and others have given every neceJJary in fruition re
setting the number ojcru jers *3c. but u hether every
proper injor motion has been obtained, I cannot fay,
but something mujl be done, or we Jhallbe ruined.
N. B. My brother has been more than 12 Months
up the Streights, and has written me Jrom time to
time on thejubjeft of the Algerines ; his information
ts good : ho urged the neccjfity oj a peace beit.g con
cluded the Jummer pajl, ana that Jor many reajons it
would be the mojl proper time : prejent appearances
are in favor oj our having a plentj oj AmericanJhip
ping to carry ojf our Crop, but the principal part of
our Captains wjli to leave their vejfels rather than
go to Europe,
20th "January. Our Cap/. has this diy
arrived from Gibraltar and brings the mojl d'Jlr ( Jftng
account; it was almojl a miracle that he escaped :
' 5 f ai Jof American vejfels f have been taken and car
rted irto Algiers. Lapt. thinks that three
frigates or jour at mo]l y mould be fufficient to take
every vejjel they have «ur t which conjtjl oj one old 40
gun [hipi thru of 32, three of 20 t-ni a number of
J mall cruifcr*; we have a I >as oj Bread sent us as
a/ample oj what our friends who are prifeners, have
but a scanty allowance oj ; 1 wiltfend it to you if an
opportunity offers. —what mote can / fay ?
I terily believe a peace might have been concluded.
1/hallpafs over Mr. Lamb's Embajfy, as every A
merican ought to do in filc-ncc. Jh pe our ftcond
has not Sampson like lojl his Jhength. lam jo muck
distressed in writing on this &\litcV[\QgJubjctt that
I Jhallforbear mentioning particulars, Juch as each
prisoner having a large iron on the leg, i3c- &c,
I dp not think a peace can now he purchifed; the
wijdom o/Congrrfs mujl devije some meam for the
rele fe of our un/ortunate countrymen, apackct ha*
gone to Lijbon jrom Ihem, /or America.
ISCARIOT.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per cents, 18/2
3 ditto, iofi
Deferred, 11/1
U. S. Bank, 12 per cent. adv.
Pennsylvania do. 10 ditto ditto.
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING
Will be performed (with permiflion of the
patentee of Covent Garden Theatre)
A COMIC OPERA,
Written by the author of the Poor SoldUr,
called the
Cajile of Andalusia,
With the original overture and accompa
niments, fele&ed and composed by Dr.
Arnold, and additional airs by Shield.
A COMEDI y in two Ads t called
Who's the Dupe.
Previous to the Opera, an occasional
Address will be spoken.
Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarters
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.
The Doors will he opened at 5 o'clock,
and the performances begin at 6 o'clock pre
cisely.
Ladies and "Gentlen:en are requefled to
fend their lervants to keep places, at half an
hour past 4 o'clock, ana to order them 10
withdraw, as soon as the company arc seated,
as they cannot on any account be permitted
to remain in the boxes, nor any places kept
after the firft a&.
N. B. No money or tickets to be returned,
nor any pcrfon admitted on any account
whatever behind the scenes.
Ticket* to be had £iid places to be taken
at the Box-Cffice m the front of the
Theatre.
TO WHICH WILL BE ADDED,
Vivat Rfb>ub!ica.JAMES LEACH,
RKSPECTVULLY inlorms hu friends and
the public, 1 o«t irom the encouragement
he ha« trciivd, I mm foveral refpe&abh Gentle
men, he it induced «>nce more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNK—and would offei hi# feiviees to
ail those CentTipro, who can place-c-nfidmce
in him , Mid h alTurcs those who employ mm,
thai ih ii co. fvdence (Viali not be milplaccl
bni it lhall be hi* couilant endeavor, ro p«jy On
(| 1 i£~t \\ aiteniu»n »o th»*ir lieit intrrrft, in all nr.
|ociai ion* whi'evrr. He has taken Iht ChmiLci,
in StjJtC'Streei« «> v 'er Mr. David Totprftnd. Wa»cli
Sl,op. WKrre PUBLIC Sl'Cl'Kl
M-ki
Til !*, ;;!i K in.s. a»<" and fold; .mri
vhc «■ C< >nun lifion HnfiurU of all kll ids, * 1!. no
flo! on • i-afoimblc l> rm» HOl'ShS-mo
VhSM'l s will be conildfiii\ expoUu tor Idlc, oi»
coiniM'lh ->•.
Cacti paid for Salrm, Piovulence, and
Port I moui t» BILI S.
,N. B. If awv Gmflrman irt or
SttV'Yttrk. has any Httfnfft to trarlafl at Pofian,
in Pafiir Negocr-'t'ons. he will he mippy t» bt em
ployed Of comm'ffion.
Button, Jan. 24, 1794.
To he Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday tiie iithJay of April next,
at thehoul'eof John Thomson, in Perth-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
r I ,4E Lot CynMnis ricv. 11 ace?, on which is
jl an oirhaio oi grafted npplenres, a well of
excellent water, a iarg»* itorc c ttern, and a very
commodtous liable ;*nd coach-uoufc, and a great
qbaniuy of the bell building i\«nps in the walls
of the houle, which was formerly built for the
rffideuce of Ohe;Governors of N?w-,Jt f (ipy. The
filiation of this Lot f<> vvni known 'or »**
b-aWoncfs and bcairiful piofj.» t\ of the Rariion
river to the weft of ibe bay, and Sandy-Hook to
the e.ift, that a further description i.- urni- celTuy.
I*he conditions of falc will be, one third of the
p'urcbafe money to be paid on the fi:ft dfjy of
May next, when a good and (uffkv n« Died w.ll
be given to th> puichafrr, by Wmtm Ru-
THmruKn, Esq. Puftdent of ' Boa id of
Proprietors ot the Extern Division of Ncw
anrt the remaining two thuds faiisra£to
rily fecur.d ip 'qual annual payments.
By orri* t <d ihc ('
J AMES PARKER, Rvgifter.
l'tr/!i-A'nr>o\. Fe or 5. 171)4-
Department.
'January 30th 1794.
War
I\'FOKMATK»v „, v r.\ ;<>.'ii Ihe
in-: •vi y invalids >f the U ""-H S>ut">,ih*t the
h.mt to whirh the*, a:ee-Vit'ed lor fix months
of < h«*i» annii 1 pmhon. li' »nt ihr 'nr:h d.iy of
vh' I. w.ll due
n.i he srh5 r h iv ol M ■• c h 1 will h<- j-a-d on
t}*<* ' i'*i da'• Wy th:* ("■-'ViTvi{i'>nCts o( flu- 1.0-ur
r hui the iV-ips r* l\i fiivcly, under the usual re-
£•>: .«> <om
of fxn Htoi s »od ad min'i-ftriiocc
,i;t be with ffgnl < vide nee of
their refpvftive ofli<e«, £tfd tiHo of the time the
invalids died, who To penfi'ta hev claim.
By cofTiinaiid 'he Prefid nt
of the l T >'trd Statr«,
Sect etary oj War.
(The printers in the rclpefttve ftatoe are
requeftcd topubhfl* the above in their newfpa
pcrs for the of iwo mon.hs,
January 30
JUST PUBLISH!: D,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. RICE, No. 50, Market-ftveet,
also, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Market-fteeet,
(Price, bound, 6f6\)
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story.
TO IVHICH IS ADDED,
The Indian Cottage
From the French of de St. Pierre.
" IH-E above Stories have been lately pub
lifticd, -mongft the works of a very different
nature, by M. de St. Picrie, who rtfided in the
country which it deferibes, and was well ac
quainted with the principal fass. Its orna
ments are the Landscape — the Climate—and
ihe natural history of the Torrid Z«>ne, obler
vrd with the eye of Taste, and delineated with
the eye of Phtlofophical knowledge. It is a
P.iftoral, of which the table and the machine
ry may be said to be eqnally real. To these are
added, the pure vein of Moral I iftrudlion, aftd
the Sublime Ideas of M. de St. Pierre."
Feb. i
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE BY
M.Carey,No. 118,FTigh-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commrhtary on Common SITINGS and
Si'KjFCTs, which are full of Common
Suksb, tlx befl sense in the world.
THIS little hook is written in a ft.:lc altogether
novel, »nd is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all clafles of people, merchants, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
wmk acquned, that it pafled th o three im
prrlfions in the eattern stales, and «nany houlc
bi>itiers deem it so ufeiul as to purch#fe a copy
for every adult in iheii families.—— Pr ic k 2s.
Febiuary 4. tilt
NORRI S.COU R T,
Back of the New Library, between Chefnut
Respectfully informs his friend* and
the publ.c in general, that he continues
c«t- tying on the bufmefs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likcwiie, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-ftiutters,doni in the nioft
tlegant manner, and with dii'patch.
Order* from the country will be thankfully
re re 1 ved. and tiuiy attended to.
Drccwhvr 30, dtf
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEV Annual Regifterfor 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and faH of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Mancheiter lociet), 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and J'pirit
on christianity
Disney's life of Dr. Jortin
Ki.ngville's ancient geography
D' Anpiri of Guy joli
Memty.a collection of efiays
Varieof Prussia's works
Calm obferver«f—by Mackintofti
RufTell's ancient and modern Europe
I-ajighorne's P'utarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnipr and BriHon's voyage
RothoiiN voyage,to Madagascar
Townftrnd's travels \fi Spain
Tafia's Jerusalem delivered
SijgelHe's translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
1 Button abridged
History of birds
PtilipsV history of inland navigation
Hooper's rarional recreations
Hiitory of France, in 3 vols.
l)u *i<s>fities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sfiferrdan's di&fohary, 2 vols.
Dmv's history ps Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key ro polite literature.
Imlay's 'd-fcFiprion of Kentucky
Prefetir state of Nova-Scotia
Present state 'of Hudson's
Preston 011 masonry
Lavnter on phy-fiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kiir«s of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
-i j v. 2 m
Vaillaint's travels, with fupcrb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
'■Bsnington on materialism and immaterial ism
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's maghzine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on pol.tical justice
Gazettecrof France, 3 v °l s *
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's (ketches of the biftory of man
Liberal opinion*, or the history ot Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
R.everies of fotitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's iiiftory of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. &r Hid.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wall's on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
H. KNOX,
d2m
Oox's travels into Denmark,RuHia, Poland,&c.
Cqx's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary.
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid-
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's work l ;
Fourcrov's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Puincy's difpeuftltory
Edinburgh difpenfotory
Lewis's difpenlatory
Ryan on the afthina
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medic#
Fordvce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armkp
Haller's phvfiology
Spalanzane's difTertatton*
London practice of physic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
and Walnut Streets.
George Rutter,
| ait Imported,
air, by
And now opening for
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jtreet,
A Large nod Valuable
Peale's Museum,
HAS Lately received • number of article? ;
arnc.ng which are the. following : That
reinaskable bird called the Cut-water, or fcif-
ars-hill; The Avofette, commonly called the
Shoe-make*, because of its bill refetnbling a
crooked awl—The Long-legs, commonly call
ed the Black-bet, having perhaps the longed legs,
in proportion to the fire of the bird, of any of
he feathered tribi.—The Storm-finch, common-
1/ called mother Cary's chicken—The Sea
fwallow, and various Gulls ; besides
ol C«anfs, Curlews, Snipes, &c.
Tht fcuil of a Whale and one of its Vertebres.
An Indian hatchct made of chiyftal : It is
curious that those uninformed wild people, hav-
ing very little knowledge of the aits, and being
ignorant even of the existence of iron and steel,
ihould be able to form such hard fubftanccs in
to fanciful forms as this, and other Indian ma-
uif<>£tures now in the Museum,
A lignified Quince : The specimen (hews
what a rctnukable effetta dry warm situation
has on fruit. It is now about 8 years since it
was gathered ; and it was a real quince, now be
come wood, at leall in appearance.
Presented by Mn. Man foil of Charleftown,
S. C.—a tool used by the Otabeitans in making
their bark cloth, by pounding the bark on this
nftruntent of wood, it produces the ribs which
referable threads : the perfe&ly straight and
equal lines madt in (his extreme hard wood, by
men without the use of iron,are curious & won
derful.
Alio, a rope made of grass, part of the tigg
ing of a vessel of Kamfkatka.
Presented by Dr. Hall, of Lewis-town, a Squib
in fpirils : when this fi(h was toupd, a number
ot (tones were appended to firings or ligaments
that projected from the front of ita head,whtch
oicdfioiu-d a conjecture, as it is not furnifhed
with fufficient fins to resist the violence of the
tide and currents, that it faftened with these li
gaments on whatever it found at the bottom \ so
that the flones answered the purpofeof anchors
and the ligamentsof a glutinous dicky nature,
that of cables. Some of the Hones are in the
fa*ne phial.
A collision of Minerals tand other Foflils-
a r e now difplaycd in drawers covered with glass
and in a mode which willfceure them from de
rangement. To each specimen are affixed refe
ren; es to a book of description.*. This manage
ment of specimens of the Fossil kingdom, len
ders this part of the Museum very convenient
and fatisfa£fory,and great attention will be paid
to the fuftematical order of them, and in mak
ing the nect ffary t flays of each : Also in giving
in a concise manner, the various uses they are
applied to; thereby rendering them the more
interesting so the public.
A Living Elk, of 2 years old, is just receiv
ed. By the account which monf. Buffon gives
of the Elk, it. appears that he was not acquaint
ed with this American animal; he particularly
omits alt notice of the curious apertures adjoin
ing the eyes of this Elk.
George Bringhurfi:,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Epilfcopal burying-
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
shortest notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chaiis, and harness
of every description, in the neatest and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best fcafoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion to thole whopleafe to employ him.
He has for sale, several carriages almost
fiqifhed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phseton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6,1794- m&t3m
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the fubferiber has been duly ap
pointed Administratrix on -the estate of
his Excellency Johic Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herfelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law directs—and all persons in.
terefted, are desired to take notice accord-
iiigly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
'Take Notice.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the Eftatc of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subfcrjher, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who stand indebted to said Estate, are
requested to fettle with him immediately; as the
Ast of Limitation of Attious, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
otherwise render it neceflary for liim u> com
mence suits against them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, Nov. j3, 1793.
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requeued to insert this in their
refpe&ive tiewfpapers, and forward their ac
counts for the fame, to J. M
Bank of the United States
January 6th, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given, that there wiM
be paid at the Bank, alter the sixteenth
instant, to the Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty cents for each (hare, being the d.vidcnd
declared for the last fix months.
By Order,
3\r JOHN KEANt Caftiier.
ALL persons having any de
mantis against the eltate of GhORGK
WIBLE, late of the city of Philadelphia, baker,
are requtftcd to bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated ; and those who are indebted, are
defircd to make immediate payment. *
HENRY REES, Aminiftrator.
2a wjw.
January 13.
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DO3SON,
Book feller, at the Stone Houle, in Second
ftreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionart
Of A rs, Sciences, and Mifcellaneoui
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
bt which
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are digejled into the form of
DiftinCl Treaties or Sy(Veins :
THIS volume contains principles or'Lci'els,
Liberty, Doctrine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History o f Lon
don, Longitude, Luther, Lvdia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of B'»ograph : cal and
Miscellaneous articles, illuitrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number of families are frill in the
country,. and it is not genet ally known who
arereturned. T. Dubfon, lolicits the favor
of the fubfenbers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poilible.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an imperfett Itate, some ac
count of the reason of that imperfection lliould
be uiven. On the Brh of September last, the
Publifiier had the misfortune of having his
Printing-office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials deft roved,
and among other articles, the figures, wit 1«
which he was printing the tablf.i of lo
garithms, belonging to the prelent volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the necessity of pub
li(hing the volume without rhe'e tables; but
hopes he Avail be able to publish them with the
next volume which is now in confidcrable for-
wardnefs,
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
exprefling his grateful acknowledunients to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to such of the subscribers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necessity of
punctuality, both in-taking up the volumes ai
early as poflrble after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the sub
scribers having got only one, two, three,
volumes, and several volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles xjnp/id lays the Publiiher under
very serious embarraflment,and deprives him
of the ufeof many Thoufands«f Dollars which
at this time would be of very essential service.
For these reasons the Publiiher finds himfelt
under the neceflity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those who
take and pay to the time of publication.
December 10.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York
THE Subscriber intending to conftnr himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b<gs ieare to of
fer his fervicesto his friends and others, in ih«
line o( a Stock Broker. Those who mav please
to favor him wuli their huftnefs, may dro« n4
upon having it tranfaSed with the utmost fide
lity and dll patch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boftnn, or snv
other part of the United State*, will bf ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD 3I.FF.CK F K.
Terms of Subscription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of persons
who reside at a dijlance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advertfements of onefqnare, or left, in
fer tedfour times for One Dollar—once, for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—ihofe of greater length in pre
portion. Favors in this line, and Subfcrif
tionjy ww be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourth flrret. Jive doors north of the
Indian Queen
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No.
South Fourtk-Street.
2awtl J.