EVENING ADVERT!
[No. 35 of Vol. V.]
JUST PUBLISHED,
jind to be fold by
Thomas Dobfon,
Price three eighths of a Dollar,
«« An Enquiry into the principles
and tendency of certain public
measures."
January 16.
ADVERTISEMENT.
Virginia, Smhumitt kni l} ec a 8 1700
POR SALE,
A Valuable Tra& of LAND,
1U thu county, containing about eight
liurtc 1 ./«j aero, one fourth of which is low
grounds, of excellent quality; ih* other thrcr
founta is high land, well eovocd with oak,
hickory '31til ch<Tnuf.
The fiiuanon is pleasant aud healihy, on Ycn
coroico ri*cr» about tk»rc roilrs from the Poto
"Mck. There i»«>n h a fwo floty buck dwcU
Img-houfr, with fom roonu and a palldge on
eich Quoi, cxci>»five of ci«icu ; a ,joo<i kitchcu,
and other oecpflary onr-houff*. It has orchards
«f apple aod p arb trees, and u well watered
by many delightful i'priaga. The terms m*y be
known on application t«» thi Howorable ]OHN
WEATH, in Phibdclijhii, or to the tiblcribei,
Kvnigon (he prrmifei.
Fan. to.
NO'RRIS-COURT,
fcckuf the New Lhiary, between Ckeiuut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RES PEC 1 FULLY informs his friends and
th< public in general, that he continues
on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likcwiie, JAPANNED PLATES,
fur dronor wiuduw-(hntters,done in themoft
elegant manner, and with iliijxitch.
Order-;from the country will be thankfully
rece : vrd. and dniy attended to.
D -eenibsr 30, dtf
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
By M. CARE Y,
No. 118, MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuable colle&ion ofBOOKS,
imported from London in the Mohawk.
Dec. 19. '
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldfmitbs & Jewellers,
No. 42,
lOOTH SECOND-ITREIT,
HAVE FOK SALE,
An elegant AJfortmtnt of
SILVER &■ PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY & f.ne CUTLERY,
Which tfeey will dispute of*on«ttie most rea
fanable terios. Devices in hair, Miniatures
fctt, and every thing in the gold and filvcr
way, done as u'ual.
December 24.
This day is publijhcd,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 11 8, MA K KLT-STR E ET,
( Price a quarter dollar)
A short account of ALGIERS,
Containing a deicription ot the climate of lhat
•ouMry-of ike mannm and euAomi of ihe i»-
Iraimanu, and ot their levcral wari ajamft Spain,
France, England, Holland, Venice, and other
power, „f Europe, liotn the ufurpaiion of Bar
baruUa and the invasion of the Emperor Ch.ir]cs
V. lo the prefenl lime; with a eoticife view of
the origin of ihe rapture betweca ALGIERS
and die UNITED STATES.
I J " 9-
Excellent CLARET,
In hogC.cMh and in c»fc« of jo bottle* etch.
also,
A, few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA
Ib pipea, hogfhcads ind quarter caflu,
FOR SALS BT
JOHN VAUGHAN,
So. in, k«tb fraat'llreei
J**- »■ 1 794- dtf
ALL persons having any de
nianda a g aintt the rllate of GtORGE
WIBLE, law Of the C„y „f Philadelphia, b.krr,
arc rrqurftcd to brine i„ the accoonu, pr.ptrlv
authe.it.cted ; and thole who are indexed, are
•curcd to make immediate payment.
HENR\ R£ES, Administrator.
J'""')' '3- sawgw
d tie o>fsite%
Insurance Company.
Philadelphia, "January 6, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given 10 the members
ul the Insurance Company of North-
America, that the Directors have declared a
div'dend (for the last fix months) of sir rn
cint, on the amnunt ot the firtt and lecond
inlialments; and ot one per cent per month
on the sums paid in anticipation of the third
instalment, calculating from the firft day of
the month following that, in which ibofe pay
ments were made. The dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders, or their representatives,
at the company's office, No. 119 south Front
ftrect, at any time after the 13th instant.
dtw
EBENEZE3. HAZARD, Secretary
J" n -9- w&r.ini.
Robert Campbell,
No. J4, South Secfnd-Jlreet,
Seconddoor brlow the corner of Cbefiiut-Itreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the lite arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general Ajfortmcnl of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be dilpolvd of on the terms.
Dec. 23. imv&ltf
lOHN CORDON.
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1 794.
NOTICE is htri-fey given, that there will
be paid at the Bat k, after the fixteenrh
'nftant, to the Stockholders or their reprefen
tirives, duly authoi ized filteen dollars and
fifty cents for each (hare, beioj the dividend
declared for the last fix montht.
Treasury Department,
Notice is hereby given, that proposals will
he received at the Office of the Secretary
of the Treafufy, until the 6ih of February next
incltifive, for the supply of all Ration® which
•nay be required dining the present year, at the
fevcral places of rendezvous hereafter mention
ed, for the Recruiting Service, viz.
At New-Brunfwick, in New-Jerfcy ;
Al Philadelphia,
At Lancaster, > in Pennsylvania.
At Reading, )
The ration* to be furnifhed are to consist of thf
following article's, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or £ of a pound of porkj
Half j Jill of rum, brandy or whiiky.
One quart of fait }
Two quarts of vinegar (
Two pounds of soap >P" 100 ration,.
On pound of candlcs)
h n - a
Drawing Academy,
Under the Dircß'wn of
S. F O L WEL L,
mu, in a few days, be reftimed*
HE feels a gratitude to thole parents
and guardians of the young ladies,
who have entrulled to him their tuition—
and as mod of them are to return, he will
have an opportunity, by his endeavors for
their further improvement, to acquit him
felf of a debt, which he efteema it an honor
to have incurred.
mw&ftf
One or two large Rooms,
In a central situation, suitable to accom
modate his pupils, are wanted. Apply to
him, at No. 2, Lxtitia Court—wher« he
will be thankful to receive commands for
Miniature Painting or Hair Work, and all
kind of Drawing on Ivory, Sattin or
Paper.
January 13, 1794,
Pennfyhania Hospital, ift Mo. 15.
THE Contributor! are requested to
meet at the Hospital on 3d day the 28th
inft. at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, to ex
amine a ground plan, with several efti
matet of the buildingt, which are propo
sed to be extended to accommodate a
greater number of Lunatic Patients, and
for other uses. Also to determine the
propriety of building the ensuing season.
By order of a board of Managers.
SAMUEL COATES, Clerk.
N. B. The Printers of the Neius-Pa
pers in this City, -Mil! oblige the Contribu
tors, by iuferting the above Advertisement-
tCy GerJlemen, in poffejjion of Subscription
papers for this Gazette, are refuefled to
transmit them to the Editor's Offite.
Monday, January 20, 1794.
By order of the Dirtftors.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN, Calhier.
tawtoF.
THI Young LADIES'
This day is piMJhcJ,
United States Register,
For the Year 1794.
Pr-nted by Stewart and Co. ni«n,.No o 4
S<cond.ftrrei t and John M'Culloch No' ,
No.th T:.ird.|lr«t, «.d ,0 be fold b) th.'m «, d '
the book.fellers.
J "1.,,
STATE OF SOUTH-CAROLINA,
In the House of Reprefemaii-vcs f
W DlCUim, 2i(t, i-p«.
HI.RtAS ihe CoinmifTionrit oi t>liu
Accounts, h v? reported, that they can.
not p»<K,-fd to the >■.<•«, g », lo „ „f , hc Trealu.v
Accounts, iclp.-ct.o- fpi cial Indents, without
knowing ibe mullaridiitg amount thereof in iii.
cul.ition :— I'lkic<.,.c,
That all holder, of special Indents
« dlrrtl.-rf, and rrqui. - cl, on or befciie the fi.U
d»y ot November n- xi, 10 deliver the fixcial In
drills 1,, their poir.-fliun to ~„c or other ot the
Cnmmiflionerj of the Trrafury, w |,o arc „;, e
receipts lor the fame, and to re.-. , 0 iheCon:.
miHtoners on public accounts, on or belorc the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
them relpeftivcly received, and alio to the Lc
g itLre, at their meeting in November next.
And that all Ipecial Indents not rendered into
tile I rcafury as above, on «r before the fiill day
ol November next, fball be, and tho fame are
hereby barred.
Rcjotui, That public notice of this resolution
be K iven in the several Gazettes in this State,
ew.ee every three weeks, un'il the fir ft day of
November next. And that the Delegates aftkis
Slate in the Congress of tlie United Siaiei, be re
(Jueffed to cause this rclolutiou to be published
in one or more papeis in the cities of Philadtl.
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for ibe expences alicudinr fnch vubbca
tlon.
Ordered, Tbat the resolution be Lot to the
£«u<itc for thrii-cnnmi fcncr.
b', «mier of ihe Hmifr,
JOHN' IANfORD DART, C.H.fi.
In the SENATE,
Df-CKMMkk ?I ft . i 1 <}£.
Refolv.d. That this Howie do concur with the
Houie oi Rcprefcntativej m the fQicgo-na refo
lulions.
Ordered, Thar the resolution* be lent to the
House ot Reprelrmative*.
By oitler of thf Sen»»e,
cwtNov.
Congress of the United States,
In SENATE,
Friday, January loth, 1794.
Th« Senate resumed the consideration
of the report of the cpmmittec, on the pe
tition of Conrad Laub and others, ref
pe£hng the appointment of the Honora
ble Albert Gallatin, a Senator of the Uni
ted States ; which report is as follows ;
" The committee to whom was refer
red, the petition of Conrad Laub and
others, dating, that the Honorable Albert
Gallatin, at the time he was elected a Se
nator of the United States, had not been
nine years a citizen of the said United
States, as is required by the conltitution;
" Report,
That the committee have conferred
with Mr. Michael Smyfer, agent for the
petitioners, and with Mr. Gallatin; that
Mr. Smyfer has declared, that the pe
titioners are ready to adduce proofs in
support of the petition at such time as the
Senate may think proper to appoint, that
Mr. Gallatin states no objection to the
trial's commencing at an early day.
u The committee therefore recommend, ;
that the Senate adopt the following refo- I
lution :
diw
" Resolved, That be afligned for
Hearing the petition of Conrad Laub and
othera, refperting Mr. Gallatin's right to
a feat in the Senate, and that melTrs. Gal
latin and Smvfer, be furmihed with a copy
of this resolution."
On motion,
It was agreed to postpone the report of
the committee, and to take into conside
ration the following resolution.
Rciolved, that a committee of elections
to consist of seven be appointed to report
rules for receiving petitions and conduc
ing enquiries relative to the qualifications
of a senator—and that the petition oi*
Conrad X<aub 8c cithers be referred to the
fame committee, to state the fiiifts, and
that tlvey be authorized to fend for persons
and papers.
THE
FtLIX WARLEY, Clrik,
S E
[Whole No. i.]
On which a ftiotion wis made and U
conded to poll pone this motion, ami to
take lip tlic following,
" That lie a committee to ascer
tain and state to the Senate the fca* rek
tive to the time Whenthc honorable Albert
OaUatin became a citizen of the l),iit;d
te«, and that the said committee
power to fend for pcrfons and papeu.
Whereupon a motion was made and se
conded, to postpone the preceding, a:i<i
to take into conlideration the fufWimr
motion : °
" Resolved, That a committee of flec
tion. be appointed, and that the petition
ot Conrad Lanb, and others be referred to
It, to report their opinion on the merits
of the laid petition."
And after debate
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock on
Monday morning.
Monday, January 13,
Mr DandridgenotifiedtheSenatethatthe
President of the United States hath th'j
day approved and i'igncd a bill which ori
ginated in the Senate, entitled, " An
making an alteration in the flag of the
United States." 6
, ® r . cier^ d ' That the Secretary acquaint
the House oi Representatives therewith.
Xhe Senate resumed the conlidention
of the petit,on of Conrad Lanb and otherb,
rejecting the appointment of Mr. Galla
tin to be a Senator of the United States.
Uii motion
Ordered, That a committee of electi
ons to cons.st of seven be appointed, and
that tne petition of Conrad Laub and «-
thers be referred, without prejudice as to
any queitions which may upon the hear
'nAb"aiW h y thc "ember, as to
the futficency of the parties and (he mu
ter charged in the petition, to the fame
committee, to ftaie the fids, and that
they be authorized to fend for persons aTid
t l ha , t " r - Mr. E'lfu-orth,
Mi. Mitchd, Mr.Rufherfuid, Mr. Brown,
Mr. Liver more and Mr. Taylor be this
committee.
Agreeable to the order of the day the
Senate took into confederation the lub'ect
ot amendments to the co.jftitution of the
united States.
And,
It was agreed to confer at this time
the tollowincr motion ;
" Refplved by the Senate a:id House
of Reprefcntat.ves of the United States
of America ,n Congref, assembled, two
thirds of both House, concurring that
the following article be proposed to the
legislature» of the fevcral States as an a
miJndment to the conftit jtion of the Uni
ted States ; which when ratified by three"
fouithsof thefaid legislatures i!, a |i va
hd as part of the laid conft.'tutioii, ,i z .
" Tl ' e Judicial power of the United
States (hall not be construed to extend to
any fmt in law or eijuity, commenced or
£1 olecuted agaiult one of the United
States by citizens of another State, or by
citizens or fubjefts of any foreign State."
And after debate,
The further confijeration thereof was
postponed until to-jnwrrow.
On raption,
Ordered, That the further conficL-ratJon
of the motions ot the z 4 th Dec Ja(t, a „d
9th of Jan. inlt, oa the fnhjed of amend
mentsto the cwititutiyn, be portioned un
til to-morrow, and that the federal mo
tions on this fubjeii be printed for the
use of the Senate.
he Senate relumed the eonfideration
of the motion made the 3d jnftjitf, res
pecting certain ftaument.s from the Secre
tary of the Treasury, and, having agreed
to fundiy amendments titereou, .it wa«
adopted as follows :
Ordered, 1 hat the Secretary of
Treasury lay before the Scuate,
A statement of the goods, .vares and
merchandize, exported from the frveral
States from the 1U day of July iyu 2 ta
the 30th day of J„.,e 1~7y3, ipecify.w'the
quantities and value gf each kiud/and the
R.bvcral countries to which the fame have
refpeftively been exported.
Statements of the" good*; wares a"j
merchandize imported iitto the feve 1 *
Hates from the lit day of July 1791. t0
tlic 30th day of June, 1792, and fro«»
the lit day of July 1792, to the 30th day
of June 1793, fpecilying for each period,
separately, the quantities and the prime
coil and dutied values of eafch kind, and
the several countries from which the fame
have refpetlively been imported.
Statements of the tonnage of foreign,
teffels entered into the several dates from
the ift day of July 1791 totbe 30th day
of June.l79i, and from the id day of
July 1792 to the 30th day of June 1793,
fpecifying for each period separately, the
several countries to which the said veflels
refpe&i*ely belong.
Statements of the tonnagie of United
States Vrflels, entered into the leveval
states, frbni the Ift day of July 1791,10
the 30th'day of June 1792, and from the
ill day 6f July 1792, to the 30th d.iy vf
June 1793, diftinguilhing for each period
separately, tlrofe employed in fiilieries, in
the coafting'and in the foreign trade, and
fpecifyir.jr the several countries from which
the fai<f veflels employed in the foreign
trade, ftroc.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock Cd
tnorrow.mqrning.
Ttiefday, January 14.
Agreeable to the order of the day, the
Senate took into consideration the motion
made yeftcrdny, for an amendment to the
conftitotion of the United States, refpecft
ing the Judicial .power thereof.
On motion by Mr. Gallatin, that the
motion be- amended to read as follows :
" The Judicial Power of the United
except in cases arijing under treaties
male under the authirity of the 'Unittd
States ,' (hall not be construed to,extend to
any fult in law or equity, commenced or
profecutedagainftoneof the United States,
by citizens of another state, or by citizent
or fubje&s 'of any foreign state
It pafled in the negative.
Oirxr.otion
That the motion be amended, to read at
follows:
" "she Judicial power of the United
States extendi to all cades in law arid equi
ty in VrhicVr one of the. United States is a
party, but no suit (hall be ptofecuted a
gainst oae of the United States by citizens
of Another (late, or by citizens or subjeCts
of a foreign state, where the cause of acti
on fliill have arisen before the ratification
of this amendment"—
It jfcffed in the negative ;
And on the question to agree M the re
fohitidn as follows r *
Resolved by the Senate and House of
Repij&fentative* of the United States of
America in Congref* assembled, two thirds
of bdth Houses concurring, that the fol
lowing article be proposed to the Legisla
ture* of the several states, as an amend
ment' tO the constitution of the United
State*; which, when ratified by three
fourths of the said legislatures, (hall be va
lid as part of the said constitution, to wit:
The judicial power of the United State*
shall not. be confirmed to extend to any suit
in law or equity, commenced or prosecuted
against One of the United State*, by citi
zen* of another State, or by citizens or
fubjeft* of any foreign State.
It j>afled in the affirmative:
Yeas—23,
" Nays—2.
The yea* and nay* being required by
one fifth of the Senators present—
Those who voted in the affirmative,
are Mefirs. Bradford, Bradley, Brown,
Burr, Butler, Cabot, Ed wards, Ellfworth,
Foster, Frelinghuyfen, Hawkins, Jackson,
Izard, King, Langdon, Livermore, Mar
tin, Mitchell, Monroe, Robinson, Strong,
Taylor, and Vining.
Those who voted in the negative, arc
Messrs. Gallatin, and Rutherfurd.
Ordered, That the Secretary desire the
concurrencc of the House of Reprefenta
tivee in this refofution.
Tfct Senate proceeded to the tonfide
rktioir of die following motion, viz.
" That the constitution be amended by
adding at the end of the 9th feftion of
the 1S article the following clause:
"• Nor (hall anyperfon holding any of
fice or (lock in any inftittition in the na
ture, of a bank, for issuing or discounting
bills or notes payable to bearer or order,
under the authority of the United States,
be a member of either house, whilst he
holdi such office or stock ; but no power
»o grant any charter of incorporation or
commercial or other monopoly Audi
M her eh J" implied."
AndifteT debate,
Ordered, That the further considera
tion of this motion be postponed until to-
morrow.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Wednesday, January 15.
The following written meflagc wis re
ceived from the Prefi.ient of the United
States by Mr. Diindridge hit Secretary.
United States, 15th Jan. 1794.
Gentlemen of the Senate and
of the House of Rcprefentatives,
1 LAY before you, as being connect
ed with the correspondence already in your
pofleffion, between the Secretary of State
and the Minister Plenipotentiary of the
French Republic, the copy of a letter
from that Minilter of the 2jth of De
cember, 1793; and a copy of the Pro
ceedings of the Legislature of the State
of South.Carolina.
G. WASHINGTON.
The meflage and -papers therein refer
red to were read.
Ordered, That they lie for considera
tion.
The Senate resumed the consideration
of the motion made yesterday for an a
itiendment to the con ftj tut ion of the Uni
ted States, inhibiting the holders of any
office or ftoek in the Bank of the United
States, from a feat in either House of Con-
grefs.
On motion,
To amend the motion to be read as
follows
" Nor. (hall any person holding any of
fice in any institution in the nature of a
bank under the authority of the United
States, be a member of either House,
whilst he holds fuch.office ; but no power
to grant any charter of incorporation, or
any commercial or other monopoly (hall
be hereby implied." .
And after-debate the further considera
tion thereof wai postponed until to-mor-
row.
The Senate- adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow-morning.
Thursday, January 16.
The Senate resumed the consideration
of the motion made yesterday to amend
the motion under consideration the 14th
instant, for an amendment to the constitu
tion of the United States, Inhibiting per
sons holding arty office or stock in any ii»-
ftitution in the natureof a bank of the U
nited States from being a member of ei
ther House of Congress.,
On motion,
To amend the amendment fo-that it be
read as follows:
" Nor shall any person holding any of
fice in the bank of the United States be a
member of either house, whilst he hold*
such office; but no power to grant any
charter of incorporation or any commerci
al or other monopoly, shall be hereby im
plied."
It patted in the affirmative*
Yeas—,l3,
Nays—l 2.
The yeas and nay* being required by
one fifth of the Senator* present—
These who voted in the affirmative,
are MefTr*. Bradley, Brown, Burr, But
ler, Edwards, Gallatin, Hawkins, Jack
fon,lzard, Martin,Monroe, Rebinfon, and
Taylor.
Those who voted in the negative, are
Medrs. Bradford, Cabot, Ellfworth, Fos
ter, Frelinghuyfen, King, Langdon, Liv
ermore, Mitchel, Morris, Strong and Vi
ning.
On motion,
It wa* agreed to expunge the following
•laufe of the motion last adopted :
" But no power to grant any charter
of incorporation or any commercial or
other monopoly, shall be hereby implied.'-'
And on the question to agree to the
motion, amended as follow* :
" Nor shall any person holding any of
fice in the Bank of the United States, be
a member of either House, while he holds
such office." .
It pasTed in the negative t
Yeas— 12,
Nays—l 3.
The yeas and nays being required by
one fifth of the Senators prcfent.
Those who voted in the affirmative, are
Meffit. Bradley, Brown, Burr, Butler,
Edwards, Gallatin, Hawkins, Jackfons,
Martin, Monroe, Robinson, and Taylor.
Those who voted in the aegative, are
MefTrj. Bradford, Cabot, EUfworth, Fos
ter, Frelinghuyfen, Izard, King, Lang
don, Livenhore, Mitchtl, Morri», Strong,
and Vining.
On motion,
It wr6 agreed that the further confede
ration of amendmerits to the Constitution
of the United States, be poftpoaetl;
(To he Continued.)
CONGRESS.
Jt»ufe of Reprefcntat'svct.
January 14.
In committee of the whole, on the report of
the Secretary of State, relative to the com*
mtrcial intcrcourfe of th'u country, vj'tlh fw
reign nations.
Sketch of Mr. MadifonV obfervationi in
reply to Mr. Smith.
( Conclude J.)
Here Mr. Madison entered into a more
particular detail of the items of the pro
duce of the United States, exported into
the Trench and Britiih dominions, and of
tKe impoftt demanded by these nations re'f
pe&ively. As, to Britain, there is'a Hand
ing prohibition against the importation of
wheat and flour into that country, until
they rife to such a high price, that Britain
cannot supply herfelf any where else than
in the United States. In France, the
only duty impofed,was one eighth per cent
and that cannot be called a tax, but is on
ly meant as a custom-house regulation, to
ascertain the quantity imported. In the
French Weft Indies, wheat and flour pass
by a general law, duty free, that is, on
payment of the said one eighth percent.
Rice is admitted on the fain: terms of one
eighth per cent, into France, whilst in
Britain, it pays 7 (hillings and four pence
sterling, per cwt. and in the French Weft
Indies, only .one per cent. In tile Bri
ti(h Weft Indies, it is free. Salted fiih
is prohibited is the Britilh Weft Indies.
Indian corn pays one per cent, in the
French islands, and is free in the BritffK.
The only article that he had ever heard df
exported from the Weft Indies to this
country, which could be said to be •
tageous to the manufactures of thcUni' -
.ed States, was molafles, which we g\ t
from the French islands; andthis isalihoft
the only instance, where we have raw ma
terials from any country. He iSbferved,
that Ffance would feel the want of our
commerce, mvich less fertfibly thai) Britain
would feel it, as her internal refourcei
were infinitely greater.- ■' The difpofitioils
I of the two countries towards us, .were ex
tremely different—Britain had behaved
very coldly, and-France vify warmly.
After taking a comprehensive ranges
thro' all the various articlesof the produce
of the United States, such as felted beef
and pork, indigo, tobacco, See. he (hew
ed always the illiberal reftrifVions laid on
our trade by the Britilh policy,v.hen com
pared to the benefits allowed to us by
France, whereour (hipping may be natu
ralised. and many othe* advantages grant
ed, that are forbid by Britain ; to follow
Mr. Madison thro'the whole of his details
would be far beyond the limits of our plan
as well as that we feel much diffidence
in recording this important fpecch. We
mult therefore pass over some of the de
tails, in order to observe, than when he
came to make mention of the advantages
derived by Britain, from the fur trade, in
which the United States were in
tended to participate,but from which they
were a&ually reftrifled, by the detention
of the Western Pofti, this obliged him to
introducefomepoliticalobfervations, which
he was sorry he could not on the prcfent
occasion, refrain from doing.
He apo'ogized for introducing politics
iato thi» (jucftion, a proceed'ng which had
been so severely deprecated, by the gen
tleman who spoke yesterday. He felt it
however, impofiible to keep them altoge
ther out of view, in considering th£ ques
tion r.ow under difcufiion, and it mtift be
confeiTed, that France had conftaut'.y dis
played a difpufitionto cultivate our friend
fhip, while Britain had (heyra-thc reyerfe.
" I do not wi(h,faid he, to enter into
any irritating views. I could be content
to forget, with the member who spoke yes
terday, that the treaty of peace is not yet
executed. I pass over the Western Fofts;
the Algerines, the Indians, the violation
of neutral bottoms, the feiznre of our
(hips, in contradiction- to the law of na
tions i and their feiznre in entering har
bours which Were not besieged. All this
I an.-forget; huti-jlujt rjj
fyrget ttfe political iritereft of AnrtritS, W/
far as to with to falter the naval power of
a nation, that hat perGftcfip
Jifpcf;tionsi A power, troTn-whom-w?
hare nothing ta Lops, aiid I Iruit na/Aitg
toftar." /' -
< M Mr. Madison never could dilfcoVer upoii
what grounds Vvc could be' ftiggofed to '
dread the coiifequence of theprcfjxjfition*.
At the utmoft.thty went only taeettaKiffr
reciprocity, and in fa&, did not even {so
that length. If we are a free people, we •
have a right flowing from bur indepen
dence, to make what regulations we think
proper. If it was the design oF~ttther
powerij to drive us . iiito a quatrd, we
could'net help it, and we mult abide the
itfue, but if that was the intention of any
of the powers of Europe, they could fopn -
find a much better pretence, than any a
riling from the jpropofitions.
Hfc next noticed an old argument, that
had so frequently been advanced in regard
to the unequal operation oftorita'age laws
on the diffci*nt ftatts, but' there was no
Hate *hat would make a greater facrificr >
than Virginia, from which he had the ho
nor to be a representative. The'fouthera
states, as to domestic- mariufa&ores', were ■
hardly inferior to the northern, and Were,
rapidly advancing to an'equality. The
materials of fhip-buiiding were ipwdifced
more abundantly in the states foiith of
Pennlylvania, and they exported the most
Valnuble commodities. They had cpnfe-i
quently a greater risque on the element of
the tea, and therefore stood in heed of bc
ing prote&ed by maritime regulations.
The proportion of (hips built in Amsrica
to those in Britain 'previous to the reyolu-'
on, was as twenty thre to forsy. -Thred
fifths of these wire built ir. the eaftcro
states, snd two-fifths in the southern dates.
Here he quoted the opinions Contained
in » report of one of the officers of th?
executive of the "United States, which
mentions-, that Britain during the last hurt
. dred yeafs, hid fperit forty two of them
in war, *iid fifty eight in> peace ; the con
feqiienci of which' has been extremely in
jurious to-the mercantile ic.tereft of Ame
rica. Mr. 'Madison entered into fumefur
ther details, through which we found it,
difficult to foEoW him;.trf]>ecting±hc«nor
rhous advance of freight tipon American <
cargoes transported in Britifn bottoms,
duririg a British WSr.c.. The Jpfrjin: these
cases fell on America, jmd'froro whence he
inferred the propriety and of
tranfportir.g our produSion's intiattQms of
; our own.
When we confide* v -the imm'nfefldjmn
tage:i that mud lefult. from-t!te.reguliitiojts
propbfed by the-- refolutiuiij bsfor?". the
committee, there .cau fee.jio doubt* .but
that they will amply repay.us (<y
pence of fitting out a marine- force, and for
any other confequencesthat might attend ,
it. With regard to. the. effect that>:jnight
be expected in Europe'from these propo
sitions. he- believeA.thu they would pro
duce a' (hort inconvenience and a foiling
benefit. Perhaps they would have ail e£
fe£t to change the policy of some foreign
nations. In 1783 and 1784, it.was de
bated in the BritWh Cabinet what line of
conduit ojight to be pur.ued with regard
to America. After confidence diftulSon
it was determined,, that the government of
America was so feeble, and tha interests
of the refpe&ive ftatu so discordant, that
Britain might ast towards us as ilie thought
proper. . ....
• 111 will and jealousy hive always been
the predominant featui es of Englan l'» be
haviour towards Ame.ica, (he had been
farther encouraged by the dream of being
able to farm (li provisions for her Weft-
India islands from the remnant of hen pof
feffionaon tbe cor.t'nent of America. Ex
perience had long fin?e put an end tojuch
expectations. The only other grounds for
treating us with difrefpeft were founded
on the impotency of our governors and the
want of union among ourselves.
The decision of the lioufe on the refp
lutiom now pending would determine
whether these tvvo causes lUB exilted. A
determination against them, jpuld give
in Europe a very bad of Our
national char/i&er, had they reafbn to be
lieve that our government was feeble, or
that the interest of the different
could, npt be reconciled. He would' not
at prefeni farther intrude on the patience
qf the committee and thereforeiconcludtd
by o'.iferring, that to reject theyrapafr
tions was to rivet the fetter* if meeSiO
merce of 'America, those fetters"willct
have produced such and injuri
ous ccniequeoces to the <^uotr^<UNITED STATES.
BALTIMORE, Jan. t 5 .
Yeflerdayajjived at thia port the (hip
Sally, Capt. Griffith, from Amsterdam,
which place (he left the Bt,h qf Nov. lall.
By this vefTel we learn, that tlie French
tedoxnpclled the jDuke of York to raise
flie siege of Dunkirk a second time—that
they had likewise forced hi» to evacuate
Qftend.in a-very precipiUMMpuner,where
they found a large quantity Wcannon,am
munition, &<n together with the Dyke's
military chfft —'that the Duke embarked
for England—that, the French had again
entered the A«ftr}an Netherlands, pene
trated as far as Monj, and were rapidly
•rerrunning that country.
Capt. Griffith, in lat. 24, 30, lon. 29,
•spoke the (hip Joseph of Portland, Mafla
chufTets, from JJfbpn, bound to Charles
ton. Thf Jofcph, he was informed by
the captain, was <jnepf.,a fleet of 40 fail
which had-been convoyed as far as lat. 4.0,
by a squadron of Partuguefe .(hips of war
The captain also informed him that the
(hip President t>f Philadelp!ua,%vas captur
ed by ths; Algerine«, oft Cape St. Vi»-
eents. .. ;
IaEYDEN,- •Offc* .ii„
The bulletins we have received from |)\e
Auftrian-arrtiy on the frontiers of.the Ne
therlands, go as saras tlie 23d inft. when
head quarters were at Berrocrain. They
contain details of different anions agaiaft
the French. In that of the 21ft, Baron,
Domfteir; aid-de-catnp to.lieut. colonel
Comte Tarien/.ier, who. was with the Im
perial array, as repreftntative of the king
of Prussia, 'Was killed by a cannon ball,.at
the fide of "field marshal Prince Cobourg.,
" Adhitant General Sir James Murray
reports to his court, on the igthpfO&o
ber, that in the two actions of the ijth
and 16th, which preceded the railing of
the siege of Maubeuge, the Aullrians had
loft 200(5 men killed and wounded, but no
caanon, and took 24 pieces of cannon and
two howitiors. The loss of the French,
po doubt, he writes, was more confidera-.
ble. The Aullrians then ( the 19th) oc
cupied the left banks«f tbe Sambre. Of
the movements of tbe enemy there was no
certain account."
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 20.
Natioxai. Contentiok, October.
7he tictiemal Convention charges its Com
rrutth of Pub Tic Safety, to make report,
•within three days, on theft three qae/fionst
I. Is it not expedient to demand an ac
count fbom all those tutii have adminijlcrcd
the public man tes , Jmce the dcceffion of Littis
he Guillotined to the ci-devant thro nc of
France ?
11. Would it not be expedient to put all
the officers of the army, on the fame pay with
all their brothers in arms, on the condition of
giving to them, at the end of the war, a capi
tal proportionate to their rani ?
111. IVcu/d it not be neeeffary that the
Committee of Public Safety, Jbould give or
ders to the Generals, to effcß the raifi'ig
of fuck a particularfiege, to take such parti
cular place in a certain limited time, on pain
of death, and to eaufe them to be executed by
martial latte, in cafe of their having fulfilled
the intentions of the Committee, in the time
limited ?
Barren, concludes his report upon the a3
of rw ? gation ( which report ism willfoon
give to our readers,)with the following fen
tentes.
Carthage mufi be dejfroyed! This was the
Couclufton of all Gato's fpeiches in the Senate
of Rome; —
Let England be ruined and annihilated!
Such ought to be the concluding article of
every'revolutionary decree of the National
Convention. _
Mi. Fenno,
By publishing the following in four paper,
it may be serviceable to owii'rs of Fur
naces, ~ Your'» E.I.
The following melancholy accident hap
pened in the townlhip of Little Egg-
Harbour, the evening of the Bth inft.
at Martha Furnace.
AS the founder and three others were
at work in the furnace, (he suddenly blew
the hot metal from the temp, or belly ; it
lew in almost every direction, set fire in
flantly to the building, and conlumed the
whole, with two of the men in the flames,
and burnt the other two men to such a de
gree, that they died in a few day*.
The aforefrid. -c- 'C.
filling in the fv r. <: v
wstqoal, and ,
(which got i:, ;
hot metal (as k.T
differ.
Little Egg-H-.rb >«*.
Jan. 15, ; .
By this" D'Sj
NEW-YORK, January iS.
iLutcji News, from Europe*
. .Captain Dod;;e in the (hip Aftrea, ar
rived here 011 Wednesday from Oftend,
which place he left the ißth of November,
by whom, and by Mr. Dixon, a paflenger
In the Attica, .we learn, that since the re
treat of the Prince of Cobourg from before
Maubeuge, no adlion of importance had
taken place.
That on the 4th of November the
."Tench army raised the siege of Nieuport.
That on the 14th of November the Bri
ti(h troops, in number about 4000, which
had lately arrived at Oftend, embarked
and failed for the Weft-Indies.
That the British army under the Duke
of York were going into Winter quarters,
put at Oftend, part'at. and feme
other place, and that the Austrian army
were to keep the field during the winter.
We further lcarn,from Mr.'Dixon,thathe
was in London on the sth'of November,
that in London, by the latest accounts
they had had ifrom Lord Hood, they were
informed that Toulon was besieged by a
bout 16,000 men; and that the army
which defended it was fup'pofed to be a*
• bout 7,000—a force which was thought
fufficient to defend the place till further
succour (hould arrive to them.
It was (aid at Qfterid that '30,060 men
had becn dispatched from the French nor
thern army to assist at the siege of Tou
lon.'
From the American Minerva.
The c crrefpondence between the exe
cutive officers of the national government
and the French minister, Mr. Genet, to
gether with Mr. Genet' 6 inftru&ions, are
new published at length- By the
tions of the French minister to Mr. Ge
net it is ascertained, that tlie French mi
nistry expe&edthe government of the U
hited §tates would make a commcn cause
with France in the present war,, and that
Mr. Genet was ftirnilhed with 300 .blank
commissions for fudi Americans a 9 might
wilh to cruise againll the yefieis .of Eng
land, Holland, Auflria, .Spain and Rus
sia. These facts explain Mr. Genet's con
diltt, and account for his constant efforts
to make.the Americans coipmit buftilities
again ft .those powers.
From this correspondence it appears al
so that the President, and the heads of
departments have been uncommonly vigi
lent in restraining all acts of hostilities and
punilhirg aggreflbre. In {hort these letters
afford the ttrongeft proof of the integrity,
wisdom and firmnefs of of our President
and all the higher officers of our govern
ment. 7
SHIP NEWS.
Bojton, Jan. 11. Entered, Brig Pere
grine, Hallet, Ofteod; (loop Hannah,
Bartlet, Guadeloupe ; schooner Godfrey,
Lovctt, St. Johns.
Cleared, Ship Thomas and Sarah, Ni
cholas, Corunna ; Franklin, Lane, Am
sterdam ; brig Harriot, Story, Cowes ;
schooner Hester, Bailey, Weft-Indies;
schooner Elizabeth, Tower, St. Euftatia;
Two Friends,.Lincoln, Weil-Indies; sloop
Dolphin, Calder, do.
On Thursday arrived here from Cape-
Nichola-Mole, Capt. Mecch in the schoo
ner Polly, which place he left the i oth of
Dec. who informs That all the French
part of Hifpaniola, except Cape-Francois
and Aux-Cayes, were in the poffeffipn of
the British—that some time before he fail
ed from Cape Nichola-Mole, a report pre
vailed, that Aux-Cayc» had been laid in
alhes.
PRICE of STOCKS.
Philadelphia, January 16, 1794.
6 per cents, 18/1
3 ditto, l of l
Deferred, I l/l
U. S. Bank, 12 per cent, advance.
N. A. ditto, 20 ditto ditto.
PennfyWani* do. 7 ditto ditto.
it happened by
si frtizcH ore »no
-in over charge,
nd fell into (lie
j krtd cauft'd the
Houfc of RtprefrnttUwtu
Monday January to.
A memorial was read from the people
tailed Quakers, the prayer of which i», that
Congrels would pals a ]<nw, which Ihall
prevent the citizens of the United State*
from trtinfportiiig flavcs from the eoalt of
Africa, to the Weft-India islands—laid on
the table.
The committee of ways and means, ap
pointed purfnant to the refolutiom
of the House, on the communications
from the President of th= United
States, relative to Algiers, brought iu a
report, which wa« twice read, aiid referred'
to the committee of thji wlvole houfe,:on
the (late of the U niott. Ordered that 150
copies of the report bcT printed for the-ufe
of the members.
Thrt report • states that the naval force
for the protection of the trade of the
United States, (hall consist of four (hips
of fcrty four guns each, 18 and 9 •pound
ers, and two of twenty guns each—The
aggregate sum wanted for this purpose,. is
estimated at 660 thoufond' dollars--—.to
raise which, one per ccnt additional duty
is proposed to be laid on irr.porhri- goods
now paying 7 1-2 p« cent—Five per
cent additional, on Jioru, marble, fie. and
on all Jlonc and earthen ware—three cents
additional on fait, per bushel—Six cents
additional per ton, on all veflels of the
United States, employed in foreign trade
and twenty five cents additional per
ton'on all other' veflels.
On motion of Mr. Fitzfimons, an ad
dition was made, to the committee of ways
and means, so that it now con fills of a
member from every state, who are to mak<
another report refpeeting the fortifying
the ports and harbors of the United States.
Mr. Coffin presented the petition ot
Tristram Coffin, praying compensation for
lofles sustained 011 public account—rtad&
referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. W. Smith, after remarking, that
in the difcudion of the resolutions respec
ting commercial affairs, much stress had
been laid on the suggestion, that Great
Britain had not discovered any disposition
to enter into a commercial treaty with the
United States, informed the house that in
the Correspondence between the Executive
of the United States and the Miniftef
of 1 Great Britain as printed by order of
thfc house, it appears that t{iere is a chasm
■ oocafioned by the otniffion of a letter
frorii the fecrttary of state, to that minis
ter.which letter is referred in a fubfequcut
.i Mail.
letter.
He therefore proposed a resolution, the
purport of which is, that the President of
the fUrtited Stales be applied to for infor
mation oh the fubjeft, and rcquefted to lay
before the House the omiteS letter, or
such parts of it , as he may think-proper—
this motion was agreed to—and a com
mittee of two appointed.
The memorial of Martha Dow u-as read
and referred to the' Secretary of War.
A Message was receivecHrom the Presi
dent of the United States, on the subject
of the recal of the Miniller of the Fiench
Republic. This meifage states, that the
conduit of the minister has met with the
most decided and unequivocal difapproha
tion, and the government of France pro
mises.that his recal (hall be expedited with
out delay.
In committee of the whole on the bill
for compleating and betterfupporting the
Military Eftablilhment of the United
States.'—Mr. Trumbull in the chair.
- The bill was difcufled by paragraphs.
The second feftion proposes in fubfcai.ee
. that Uiofe who continue in service to the
expiration of their enlistment fliall. receive
thirty dollars in addition to their pay—to
be paid to them personally, in proportion
to the time they have been in fervicc.——
This feftion, after some debate was struck
out.
A motion was made to strike out the
last feftion which provides that the widowi
and orphans of officers who die or are kil
led in the service, stall be entitled to 3
years half pay—this motion after conside
rable debate was carried
A fe&ion was then propofrd which pro
vides for a donation of 20c acres of land
to every non-commiflioned officer, muGci
an, and private of the army =t the end
of the fervice,provided they fettle on the
fame. This motion after ftveral amend
ments was agreed to.
The committee then rose and reported
the bill with amendments.
CONGRESS.
Adjourned,
of 3 letter a -riit'.-n."!. !'«
l'aj eUevilie, y.C.da«4 C>U» ijnL.iu
eveuifi^.
" Two gentlemen juftaniW hercfiooj-
Chailetton (S. C.) report, *hst r. Fr-ncll
to gun lhip,& an Kngliih 18 gun f'-ijiale,
had had a favcri artion near the harbour j
that the Engliih (hip was taken and bro't
into Clrutlton, in conletjueocc of w|,'-**,
a riot took place between the freacli «ii I
English on fho.re —that.the C:sy
was killed in fupprelling.the fraais."
FMM A CORKISPtINDLS'T
The wonderful » crity with winch fa
bricated news are circulated in order 10
niifinform the public of the real stare of.
things in Europe, is no lmall evidence ot
the designs of their authors. But the oj
ueiis of the United States cannot c«t;iia~
ly be disposed to .thankthofe who Src per
petually* deceiving^them. When great .e
---vents take pkee, t'uey will be known here
by the usual and frequer.t channels of com
munications ; the anticipation of events
frequently lead to difappointmcnts, and
does more injury than good to that
on the fide of which they are anticipetcc.
They can answer so other purpose than
to give a temporary aid; when they are
afterwards found to be falfe and fabri
cated with improper views, they produce
a permanent evil.
The great news of last Taefday, which
the public were amused with, and- which
Mr. Genet tells us prevented the Congrefj
from Jlaying in their fitting, turn out to be
without foundation, notwithstanding the
Extraordinary Gazette of SurnLiy, which
indeed defeats itfelf.
If the intelligence was calculated to
have any influence on certain ir.cafurcs de
pending, the folly of fucb a projtft is ob
vious, for the speedy contradiction must
convince the reflecting, how dangerous it
is to fuffer the {hifting and varying hazards
of war in Europe ty weigh in tlae decision
of great national a£ts.
An independent nation (hould pursue
it's own policy, and no? fuller the m«a.
fures on which it's prosperity depends to
Jkake in tie fro.every breath of ru
mour. Miserably dependent indeed Ihould
, we be on European-polities, il the gain of
the loss of a battle' is ta be the ftandatd of
merit ai>d the rule of dCe'ijtm in great. quc/r
tions of government.-' . .
The events of war are fluctuating: in ; a
war, like that in Europe a great victory
on one day is counterbalanced by a, great
defeat on another—the capture of a town
in one quarter is an offset againll.that of
another in another quarter, and it may be
years before the ultimate tjcfjjtcn of ths
contest will be seen. ~
In the mean time, what ever private sen
timents. may prompt,pvbTic mcafures fhouid
Readily follow lip the true national interejft,
of the United States without a deviation,
occasioned by this yi&ory, or that de
feat. Thus, .while the great powers ,of
the world, are weakening themCelves by
war, this happy country will be ftrengt!.-
ening itfelf by peace.—XJnlefs this guard
ed and steady policy be pursued, we (hall,
by entangling ourselves with hazardoys
connexions, blatt all our prcfpeCts of peace
and put ourselves back where wc were in.
1782.
NORTHAMPTON* (Mas.) Jan. 8.
The following is a lilt of X)eaths and
Baptism*, within this town, from jaguar*
ift, 1786, to January ift, 1794. '-'iz :
Years. Deaths. * Baptffcs.
1786 31 4»
1787 26 31
1788 »3 36
1789 9 34
"1790 13 49
179 1 17 34
1792 17 5>
*79 J
141. JJ3
The above mentioned Dent lis, were
within the fevers] periodt following :
■t!z. fponj the birth to 2 year* co
from 2 to to I
jo to 20
20 to 30
30 to 4.0
40 to 50
50 to 60
6o to 70
60 to 80
80 to 90 8
90 to 100 IJust Imported,
tram London, Dublin andGL.itaoir,
And now opening for lale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
*4t No. I sB, Marhei
\ L ■ m and Vaiu.« !>l c
COLLECTION OF
Among which are the following
V Annu.il Regilter for I 792
European Magazine for the fii ft fix
month-, of i 793
Gibbons jieclitie and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of Mi* Manchester society, 3 \oi-s.
Pricftlv on matter and I'pirit
on christianity
Difnty's life of Dr. Jortin
Kiugville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli .
Mcmty, a collection of eflays
Varitof Pruflia's win ks
Calm oSferver—-by Mackintoft*
Roflel(*s ancient and mode n Europe /
I-anghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly &ilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnicr and Button's voyage
Kochon's voya ;e to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taffo's Jerusalem delivered
SmeMte's tranfl.itiov of Buffon
Berwick's hiitoiv of quadrupcik
Bnifou abridged
Hiltory of birds
PhilipVj hiftorv of Inland navigAti»n
Hoiiper'i ration*! recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curjofities of literature, 3 vol*.
Whitaker's d -fence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
linlay's dt-Gcription of Kentucky
Present Hate of Nova-Scotia
Pre lint state of Hudlon's Bay
Preston on mafoni y
Lavater on abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. John ion
Necker on executive power
Kilfes of Seetfndus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillainr's trav-fi. with lupefb engravings
Dw.unau's infancy
hf Afftencari TmfljatJS
Benington on materinli'hi and irhma erjalifm
rte-chold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of V oltaii e
De Non's travels
Franklin's life And works
Grozier's defcriptiori of China
Murphy's tranflai on of Taiitui
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vo^
Helverius on man
Kaimev's (ketches of the history of man
Lib ral opinion*, or the history of Benignu«
Mawf'j gardener'* di<?fc'ona>y
Nohic's memoirs of the Croihwfcll family
P'ayboafe dictionary
Reveries of fofitnde
Smith'* theory of moral sentiment*
Srackhoufe's history of the bible
War foil's life of Philip lid. &: II Id.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vol*.
Wanley's wonders of the little sVorld, called
man
Wails on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,lluffia,Potahd,&c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rahant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical di&ionary
Gngg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&ice of mid
wifery
Manning's practice of phytic
C leghorn's diseases of Minorca
limes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on d'foafe* of childrei i
Qiiincy't d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Mate-ia Medica
Foi dyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Mailer's physiology
Spalanzane's d'ffertations
London pra&ice of phytic
Bill's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, accounts Ra
ted or collrded, rmployers fuiied with
domellic*, houTe rooms, hoarding and lodging
icntrH, let or procured-—foldicr's, mirinrt'i,
or militia m«'i pay, lands and claims on the
pubhr ; |b„es in the bank;, in the canals, and
'He rimnpike road : centrales granted by the
pablic, and the old and late paper monies ;
note* of hand, hills, bonds and morgages, with
•r without depofiis—Bought, fold, or :ego
eialed at No. I, in south Sixtb-flreel, belcw
Vlarket.ftreet h» FRANCIS WHITE,
Who iranfafts business ia (ha public offiacs for
country peop'e and othera, by virtue of a pow
•r of attorney, or by pcrfonal application.
December it. d
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying
ground,
this opportunity of returning his
A grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requcftng their <liture favors, as well as
th'ole of the public in general.
BOOKS,
He continues to make and repair at tht
fhwrteft notice, all kiirtts of pleasure carriages,
luth as coaches, chariots, pl.setons with and
wirhiHit cr*iihj neck*, coac'hees, chaises, kitte
recus, windior luikevs anjd chaits, and hurnefs
of every Be«'cnptior, in the neatest and ne\n*ft
f-tfhinn now prevailing in the United Stales.
And as he his a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the Icaft dou';t bur he will be able to give
futi taction to tlio e who please to employ him.
He has for sale, fevera) carriages afnioft
finifhed, such as ccachee-, an Italian wind!or
chair, hung on steel fprirtgs, a light phaston for
one or two hori'es, and a lulkey with a falling
Carriages fold on Commifllon,
Pliil.nlelpln.-i, Jan. 6, 1794 m&rtjn
ALL peWoits having mj demand jßainfl
the Eilare and Eifefts of Mrs. MART
SINDRKY, widow, late of Furikt'i-fd, Ox
ford tovyndiip, in the State of Pennsylvania,
'lecenfed; are dented to produce their ac
counts to jicbg Leißx« arid WilliamCutto,
[in Frankford, aforefitid,) Executors and Ad
nin-llratots ot the aboee in order for fe'tle
m?nr. And whoever i, indebted to raid Bf.
late, iScc. a r e reverted to make pavinent to
the aforefard Adnvniftratoi *, on or before the
1 6tl.March, X 794, orth;j will be dealt
with according to law.
Frank ford, Dec. 16.
Stock Brokers Office,
N'o. 16, WtlUftrert, New-York
rH£ Sn:>fcribei intending to confine himfelf
rntuciy to thr PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, leave to of.
! r ho. Irrvicrs to his friendj and others, in tlte
tine us i S'.ock Broker. Those who may plcafe
iu [.Ivor htm with thrir bufineU, n» 3 y 'depend
upon having it tranfafted with the utrooft lide
luy gnd dilpaich.
Orders Iroin Philadelphia, Boflin, or any
othci pjrtof the Uuired Stales, will tv ilriAly
itunded to. LEONARD BLRECKER.
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
B iok.'eller, at the Stone Hotife, in Second
ilreet Philadelphia.
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionary
Of A ts, Science*, and MilctfJJanfous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
nr which
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are digfjted into tht form 6f
DHtinft Treaties or Svftfcms :
HTMIS volume contains principles ofLeveN,
1 Liberty, Dottrine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
don, Longuudc. Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Ma!), Mirriage, Mary, Maryland*
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, M«cha>
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illuikrated with Twen-
TY TWO COPPEEPLATES.
As a number of families ire still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the subscribers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be fupplicd as early as
poiuble,
The tbwth roivMx of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to tiie public ; but as it makes
it* appearance in an imperfect state, some ac
count of the reafort of that impetfe&ion ftiould
be given. On the Bth of September last, the
Piibliflier had the misfortune of having his
Printing-office butnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the fiouees, with
which he was printing the tables or lo
oaßitkms, belonging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As afupply of these could not be immediatefy
obtained, he was under the neceflity of pub
lifting the volume without these tables; but
hopts he? (hall be able to pubiifli tb«m with the
ne*t volume which is now in considerable for
wardnfefs.
The Publi flier embraces this opportunity Of
exprefllng his grateful acknowledgments fa
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to fucb of the subscribers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfiMe neceflity of
punctuality, both in taking up (he volumes as
early as pofGble after publication, and of pay
in; for them when taken. Many of the sub
scribers having got only one, two, three, fee.
volumes, aud several volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different ft ages
from the 'commencement; and though lift im
portance of a fe\¥ dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles V*fp*lD lays the Publiflier under
very serious embarraffinent, and deprives him
of the use of many Thousands of Dollars which
at this time would be of very efienttnl service.
For these reasons the Publisher finds himfelf
under the neceflity ofrecurfing to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to thole who
take and pay-to the time of publication,
December 10. MwtiJ.
tfcftf.
VOLUME X. OF
A New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by
R. A IT KEN,
No, 22, Marketfireety
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME-
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philadelphia, for promoting Ufeful
Knowledge, Vol. 3* Price *of in boards
(fj'" The fubfetibers atn reqHefted to call
as above directed for the g<3 vol. where nisty
be had, complete fetfs uniformly printed.
Cottit/nts of Vol. 3d.
1. An efTay on those inquiries in Natural Phi.
lofophy, which at present aremoft benefiei
al to the United States of Nojth America.
Dr. Nicholas Csllin y
2. Conjtf&ures concerning the formation of
the earth, &:c. Dr. B. Franklin.
3. A new and curious theory of Light and
Heat. Dr. B. Franklin.
4- Description of the process to be observed
in making large (beets of paper in the Chi
nese manner, with one smooth furface.
Dr. B. Franklin.
5. Queries and conjectures relative to M*g
netifm, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
6. Explanation of a singular phenomenon, firft
observed by Dr Franklin, and not fatisfac
torily accounted for. Mr. R. Hatterjan.
7• An account of an Eaftliy Substance found
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls; together with
foine remarks on the Falls.
Robert Al i €rvjtn, M. D.
8. Observations on the probabilities of the
duration of Human Life, and the prog-re fs
of population, in the United States of Ame
rica. William Barton, hfq.
9. A letter containing obfervatiuus made at
Lake Erie, on that singular phenomenon,
by Teamen termed looming.
Andrew Ellieot FJq.
10. An Account of the Sugar Maple-Tree
0? the United States, and of the methods
of obtaining Sugar from it, together with
obfenrations upon the ad vantages both pub
lic and private of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rujk> M.D.
it. Memoir on the use of the Thermometer
in discovering Banks, Soundings, See.
Jonathan Williaxks, EJtf.
•2. An Account of the most efieclual means
of preventing the deleterious conlequences
of the bite ofthe Crotalus Horridus, or Rat
tle Snake. BenjatiiA Sfnitfl B&rtph, M. D. j
13 Magnetic Observations, made at the Ufti*
verfity of Cambridge, (Maifachufetts.)
Dt. S. Wi'tia.Dif.
14- Accurate determination of the right as
cension and declination of Bootes, and the
Pole Star. Andrew EllicoU, Ef<j. j
15 Account of several Houses in Philadelphia,
ftrack with Lightning, on June 7th, 1789.
Datid Ritttnhoufe, EJ'q.
16. All Account of the effects of a stroke of
Lightning on a House furnifhed with Two
Conducts, ptvid Ritttnkiuft, and Fronds
Efjri.
17- Experiments and Observations on Evape
ration in cold Air. t. Wifiar y M. D.
18. Postscript to Mr. Ba< ton>s Letter, to
Dr. Rittenbonfe, of the 17, of March,
New Notation of Mu/ic.
ttn R. P-tttttfn.
la. Obrervationt on the Theory ol' Water
Mills, fee. fy, Warini.
•9- Agronomical Obferrations.
Dot id Rittcnfgmfc.
2b A letter relative to a method of finding
the sum of the several powers of the Sines,
£>«vid Ritttnhaufc< Ify.
2i. Index Florae Lancaltrieft/is/
Htvrico MukUnbcig, D. 7).
22. Investigation t»f the power of Dr. Bar
Iter's Mill, as improved by James RuniJey,
with a defeription of the b;ilj. H\ Waring.
23. A Thermometrical Journal of the tem
perature of the Athtofplwre and So*, bn a
voyage to and from Oporto, with explana
tory observations thereon.
Jowlkah fVitfiitts, EJif.
24. Fit ft memoir of observations on the plants
denominated Crypt^gamick.
M. De Bcauvtis.
2s. A letter, containing observations on the
ancient works of Art, the Native Inhabi
tants, &c. of the Wefiern Country.
Mnjo* Ji>naTfi£M Kutrt.
26. An account of some of the principal dirs
employed by the North American Indians.
Extra died by the late Mr. Hugh Martin.
27. An account of the beneficial effects of the
Cassia Chamsecrifta fn recruiting worn-out
lands, and in enriching such as are natural
ly poor; togethrcr with a botanical descrip
tion of the plant.
Jentl CritML tyvf Virgimit.
18. An account of • hill on the borders of
North -Carolina, supposed to hav-e been *
volcano, ii, a letter from a Continental of
ficer, to Dr. 7- Gr«nnwy, Virginia.
J 9 A" Acconntof apoifonous plant, grow
ing fpontaaeouily in the southern part of
Virginia. Extracted from a paper by
_ Dr - limits Crettlaw, VitginU.
30. Description of a Machine for meafitring a
ship's way. Francis if..
Jl. An Inquiry into the qneftion, whether the
Apis Mellifica, or true Houev-Bee, is a na
tive of America. tmjtain Smith Btutn,U.l>.
32. Au Account of a Comet.
David Rittcnhoufa
33- Cadmus »r a Treatifeon the Elements of
Written Language, illustrating, by a Philo
sophical -division of Speech, tlie power 0!
each character, thereby mutually fi*, r , g the
Orthographyand Orthoepy. With an Efla*
•« tUe mode of teaching the Deaf, or Si t<J
in<3 cdr.ftqoently ,Dumifro fywk, by
Thornton, M. D. Honored witli the Mi
gellantc Cold Medal, by the PhitofopVucal
Society, in December, : 792 N. B
Cddnm is printed in a line 8. voK and fold
by the PuMiltier hereof.
34- Obfcrvatio.nl on the Theory of Water
«' H,rn,g.
iS- An Improvement on Metalic Conductors
or Lightmue rodn. It?'. Kaitrt Pattrrh*.
Honored witli the Magellanic Premium, by
an Award of the Society in December 1 -ifi.
36. An ealy ar.d expeditious method of ujfr
lipating the noxious Vapour
found in Wells and other fubterraueot*
places. Ibcnucr Robin/or, fyj.
it. A method of draining Ponds in level
grounds. Jifc Higgle
38. Observations on fbe lercfityof tht wia»
ter, .782. fin. Wiijon.
39. A Del'sription of a new StaiWard for
Weights and Measure*. ; ie * letter from
Mr. John Cooke, of Tipperary in Ireland
40, Description of a Sprinc-BIoCK, defined
to assist a VefTel in failing, fttreis Hofkin-
Jt», E/f. Honored >vith the Magellanic
Gold Medal, by an Award of the Society
in December 1793.
Decfwbtr 21.
ADVERTISEMENT
FOR the benefit of thole who maybe con
cerned it may not be improper to notice
that the United States, by theirAft oft Tie Itth
of February 1793, ordered that all Claims of
the description therein mentioned, and which
originated previous to the 4HI cf March 1789:
be profented at the Treasury on or before the
flrft day of May 1794, otherwise tbev win
" for ever thereafter, be barred, and exdu.
"ded from fettiement or allowance." And
as there may be fereral Creditors of the Uni
ted States, holding Certificates or other Se.
curities, which f,>rm a part of the DonTeftic
Debt, and \fho wi(h to fubferibe to the Loan,
they are reminded that the term for receiving
fubferiptions at the Treasury, is by the Ast of
the United States, pafled thefecon'd of Maicfr
lalt, extended to the last day of June, 179.,.
The following is an extaft from the Act ef
Limitation above referred to :
Sictiom f. 1 ' Be it enacted by the Senate
and House of Representatives of the United
States "f America, in Congrels affcmbled—
That all claims upon the United States, for
Services or Supplier or (or other cauie, mat
ter or thing, furnifhed or done, previous t®
the 4th day of March 1789, whether founded
upon Certificates, or other writ ten documents
from Public Officers or otherwise, which have
not already been barbed' by any Ast of Liu; 1 ,
ration, and wbirh (hall not be presented at
the Treasury before the firft day of May 1794,
(hall forerer after be barred and prescribed
from fettiement or allowance : Provided
that nothing herein contained, (hall be con.
ftrued to affect Loan-Office Certificates, Cer
tificates of Final Settlements, Indents of In
terest, Balances entered in the books of the
regifterof tlie treasury commonly tailed regis
tered certificates,loans of monies obtained in
foreign countries, or certificates iffned pnrtn
ant to the Ast, intitied " An Ast, making pro
vision for the BeVt of the United Slates,
ADVERTISEMENT.
Niw-J*k«iy, )n Y vii!ucof»Wnt(oi»r
aufTcx County, ff. 5 U durfltd, ltlued ovt nt
the High Court of Chancery of New.Jcifej, a «
the suit of William Shipley against Jum, M,n»
«ndoiher«; 1 shall expose 10 (ale at Publu Veil,
due, on the sixth day of February next, between
the hour, of Twelve * v d Five >„ tire Afttrnoo.
i.f the fame day, on the Piemifri, itie following
defciibcd 1 rail of Land, with ira appurtenances,
situate mtbe Townflup of Oxford and County
of SufTex, beginning at a Chel'not Oak Tree, cor.
of Daniel C'»x's land, and ft. nding in the
line of a foimer I'uivry madt to ThomiiSieven
fo»,being marked with il»e Inter B. and than.*
ex<eodiu g stengCoau'a lint (gift; Wtb filiy .10.
grees well fifty-five chains and fevent y-five linka
to a Black Oak Trcacomer ol Joseph Shipped'*
land {CetOfrti) fouih tune degree!, and fifteen mi
nutes. wefl n«mv-chains ami fixiy five linka to
a fotkeai Whur Oak Tree, marked with IHe Irt
<eta f and ii another of the said Shipper's cor
nars (third) thence northeighty degtces, eafl one
hundred and forty-fire chaint, ta a poll on {he
southerly fide of Paquaolie-River, being alio*
comer of jolvu Jtadi« { 'a la*d (lourlb) ihrnc.
north thirty-nine dejiees wef), one handed
and thirty-two chains to the place of beginning
•omauiing nine hundred and thirty aciei wuij
the usual allowance for roadl and high ways—
The fame Prrmifts are within eight mile, „j ,| lc
River Delaware, and there ii thereon a conveni.
tm CTill Mill wiih two pair of Stone-—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fufccieirt ftwam of
*ater lor their use—a Dwelling Houfr. Store
Howie, and ievrral small buildings.
MARK THOMPSON', Sheriff
Dated lid day of Joly, 179^.
E. Oswald,
No. ij6, Mxrket-Stieet, Sooth,
A " r the rtqneft of a number of friends,
* i- propose, pubHJbing The Jndehmxskt
<>A«TTE£«, twice a weak, viz Wadwi'daw
"® Sat urdays—to commence m January next,
(t tumcient encoeragement offers
It will I* publiOied on piper *r.d Ttivs
equal to its prefcnt .appearance. The fvli
fcnption ijf dollars per ann.
Advertisement! not txcecdiqg a Square,
will be inlerted 4 times for i dollar—Uriv
continuance one fifth of a dollar. Tho* tx.
i square, in tlwfame proportion.
PHILADELPHIA:
Printid bv JOHN FENNO, No. j.
South Fourth-Street.
eodjw.