EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 11 8 of Vol. V.]
Excellent CLARET,
v T*i hogiheads and in cafcs of 50 bottles each.
also,
A few cafe Champaigns Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, bog (he ads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front tyreet
Jan. 2, 1794.
The following Certifi
cat- o the funded three per Cent Slock of the
Dct>t of the l/niied States (landing on
the of the Tieafurv of thr fyd United
S*a*es, in the names of Donnald and Burton of
JL«*ndon, merchants, and flirted by JrtfVph,
Nourfe, Register of said Tr -afury, to wit :—
5476, dated 24'h August 1792 for *9,59
d-oH«r> and cents was ifanfnuticd from Lon
don m vhc- (hip Peter, Paul Huffev, matter,
bsmnd for New Y >rk, and has been loft.—
The Subfcribcr intending to apply trt the Trea
fwry of the United States to have the fame re
*rvred', dcfire« all perfoo* wh »are inlerrfl-d in
the hid cctvficac, to make their, oojeftions
lh«»cto, :! any they hav-. *•
Francis Macy.
P'nila'l. March 27. d6w
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118
Mai ket-Street,
All Essay on Slavery,
Detuned 10 exhibit in a new point of view
its efte&s on morals, indujlry, and the peace of
Jotitty. S''me ra&s anrf calculations are offered
rt> owe the labor of freemen to be much more
frodmclyje than that ot (laves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and" hence the n-ctfTjiy conclusion, that
flavcry is impolitic as well as unjuji.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February 1 ij.
FOR SALE,
BY THE Sl/BSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
quality in impovted in the ihjp
Wil nington.
OLD SHERRY WINE of the firft quality
in quarrc calk':, imported in the brig Nancv
capr. G>»in. ft. m Cadiz.
ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RAISINS, importer! , n ditto.
Particular TENERIFFE pipes
hhdt. and qu;\r;er calks, imported in the (hip
Thi/ma*, capt. Skinner.
A few qnd 1 ter cnfk • of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who has also, just arrived and for sale
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lisbon Salt.
A quantity of empty BAGS for sale.
Apt'l . w&stm
Just Imported,
In tie Ship Edivard, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Peterlburg in Rnflia,
And now landing at Soutli-ftreet Wharf, tfiz
Hemp,
bar iron,
"RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN'S DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 23, Walnut-street.
diw.-jtawtf
March 4,1794.
The Ground Plan
OF THE
City and Suburbs
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM ACTUAL SURVEY*
. IT is with pieafure that the publisher has to
i'i!orm his fublcribers and the public in genr.
:«!, that the p ate s now under the hjnds of
».ie erv; aver, and in greater forwardnefs than
J*a» n» si ft contemplated. At tin fame time
Kn 5 leave to rem.nd them, th t fubferip
t'on papers are'ftil! open at most of the noted
ljpok-fto.es in the city ; an d that he hopes
from the whole of them (o be enabled to form
fuel) a refpeftable catalogue of n„„es, as will
do a credit to the work, a s well is afFo d a
reasonable encouragement to the nodemke-r
Thole who are drlirousof further informa
tion areiequefted to call on
Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, Market street.
*f a J*
of ffje
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
FOR SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
-April 21. mw&flf
No. 41, south Second Jlreet>
Extrad of a letter from a gen
tleman in America to a friend i" England, on
the Subject of Emigration—price 1 Bth of a
dollar.
Ecclejiajlical EJbibhJhments detrimental to
a State.
April 22.
The annual ele&ion
FOR
Dire&ors and a Treasurer
Library Company of Philadelphia,
WILL be held at the Library, in Fifth
ftreety on Monday the fifth of May next, at
threeo clock in the afternoon, when the trea
/urer will attend to receive the annual pay-
ments.
As there art fevera! (hares on which fines
are due, the owners of them, or their rep e-
are hereby notified, that they will
be forfeited, agreeably to the laws of the
Company, uniefs the fa id a-rears are paid off
on the fifth day of May, or within ten days
after.
By Order of the Directors.
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN,
Secretary
m&w 15th May.
April 7.
(NO. 60 )
Difiricl of Pennfylvanta, to wit :
Be it remembered that
on the twelfth day of April in the eighteenth
i year of the Independence of the United States
of America, Be jamin Davies of the said dif
tri<st hath depofitcd in this office the title of a
map, the right whereof he claims as propri
etor, in the words following, to wit;
" A Ground Plan of the City and Sub
u urbs of Philadelphia, taken fiom actual
'■ survey; containing an exadl defcrlptioti
ot all the tquares, streets and alleys in
" the City and Liberties ; of the litmtion
u of all the principal pu >lic buildings ; of
" tiie rivulets, and as much of the Canal
u as lies within the compass of the draft,
i( by H. P. Folic : publilhed by the Propri
" etor, Benjamin Davies.*'
In conformity to the a<st of the Congress of
the United Stares, ent; led an ast for the .en
couragement of learning, by securing the co
pies of eharts and books to the authors
and proprietors of such copies, during the
times therein mentioned.
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Diftritlof Pennsylvania.
A P HI 9- W&SSW
Jult Imported,
In thejhip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peterjburgh in RuJJia, and now landinst at
Rujfell's wharf,
bAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And lor sale at the stores of the subscriber in
Walnut street, No. 2a.
John Donnaldfon.
d'w w& tf
April 4.
Treasury D^partmentT
Revenue Office, April i(,tb, i 79 4.
Communications by post or
otherwise. will be received by HV „f
rr atth ; office r ° f (he *
the Revenue from perfpns w,l| i n - to f , ;
Cannon, Cannon Ball, and Shells, f or for .
he mTIV PS ° f Wdr " The filncfs of
the metal for cannon, and the capacity of the
founders fmelt.n,, in preparing a „d rW.
cannnn !1 ? et ! l ' t , a " d C3ftln « autl horing the
cannon (which are to be ca& solidly) will rc
<)u;re to be par;icularly dated.
S ,nnl ar communica'iions w,!| also be rectiv
,°™ a "y Persons willing to supply Ji V e
" theft !imh " f ° r tkC rfWfi
ot thefhip, tf war. Different plans of nro
c«nns and Applying the fame may be proof
ed. she convenience of the fittiat.on i„ re
fa/ h nav *nd the state of the timber
whether already fallen or hereafter to be cut
will require to be noticed. '
All the necessary particulars in regard to
r "(i j articles which are wanted, will be
ri:; d o :r" ,r ; as imtndcd to be
fought. ""ormanon, which is hereby
m&thtf
Wednesday, April 50, 1794.
NANKEENS.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SO I. P BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
Price 1 8 of a Dollar.
OF THE
HEMP,
AND
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Wajnut-ftreet wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Ducky
Ditto Oznabu.gs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, -viz. Tumblers and Mugs, -va
rious flzes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dntch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c. &Jf.
FOR SALE By
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale
fhouldapplic.ition be made within a few days ;
otherwise she -will tale freight for Amjler
dam.
mw&fgw
March 1, 1794.
To be Let,
For Merchants Costing Houses or Public
Offices,
Two brick 3 story Houses,
HAVING 6 rooms in : c»ch, wiih fireplaces
betide garrets, fuuate, oil the fomh wettcrlyfide
ot Dock street, between Pear and Walnut
streets. Enquire of
April 17
The Profits arifingfrom the following publi
cation are for the benefit of the Poor.
Just published, printed by R. Aitßen and
Son, and fold by J. Crukfhank, W. Young
T. Dobfon, and the other Booksellers,
MINUTES
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed on t.ie 14th September 1793 by
the Citizens of Philadelphia, the Northern
Liberties, and theDsftrifl of Southwark,
to attend to and alleviate the lurferings ol
the affliAet! with tlie Malignant Fevei,pre
valent, in the City and its vicinity.
IVITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
A lift of persons admitted into the Hofpi.
tal at Bulh hill, (h wing the times of their
admiilion, death and discharge.
Number of Houses, Deaths, Sec. in the
refpefclive Greets, alleys, and courts in the
c.ty ol Philadelphia, North;rn Liberties, and
Diftrift of Southwaik,
A lift of" (he Interments in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia, Northern
Liberties, and Diftrift of Southwark, with a
meteorological account of the weather.
A luminary ot donations in calh and provi
sions, received from sundry perfoqs and pla
ces, for the us' of the poor and afflicted,
April 2. H3w
For Sale or Charter,
K ANDROMACHE,
(An American bottom)
»««».ror John Moore, Majier.
IS a stout good vefci, about two years old,
burthen 232 tons, has onl£ made three voy-
and may be lent to lea at a small ex
pence. She may be Teen at Vine-str e et whart; :
and the terms made known bv application to
WHARTON Stf' LEWIS.
March, 2i
For Amsterdam,
The new fact-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
mm ADRIAN A,
* K. Fitzpatrick, Master.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight orpafiage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March, 6, 1794 dtf
For Norfolk £3* Fredericksburgh,
J^fe^LITTLE^SALLY,
John Earl, Maftcr.
A Jlaunch good veflel, will fail in a few
days. For freight or p flage, apply to the
master on board at Chefiiut llreet wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONY & SON.
March 31. dtf
d—tf
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
tuth'gfstf
[Whole No. 514.]
From the LONDON GAZETTE.
Whitehall, MarcH ii.
IT appears by dispatches which were re
ceived yesterday by the Right Hon, Henry
JJundas, his Majeily's principal Secretary of
Mate for the home department, from Vice-
Admiral Lord Hood and Lieutenant-General
iJavid Duftdas, dated St. Florenzo in the
Island of Corsica, the 21ft and 22d of Feb.
1 794> that the tdwer and garrison of Mor
telja surrendered on the 10th of that month;
that the strong redoubt and batteries of the
Convention were ta:keri by storm on the 17th,
l /- a T . e cann onading of two days, that
the lame night the enemy abandoned the
tower of Forneli and two considerable sea
batteries dependant upon it; that on the
19th they retreated from St. Florenzo -to
iialtia ; that previous to their retreat one of
theirfrigates was funk, and another burnt hi
the Gulph ; and that the town, forts and
port were taken poflVffion of the fame day
by his Majesty's land and sea forces.
The loss of the British consists of 13 killed
and 39 wounded, besides fix sailors of the
fortitude killed ayd 56 wounded, frqm the
fire of th£ fort Mortella.
Congress of the United States.
IN SENATE,
Friday, April 18, 1794.
(Continued,)
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk :
" Mr. President—The Houfc of Re
presentatives have patted » a reiolution to
continue the present embargo on ships or
vessels in the ports of the United States,
bound to any foreign port or place," in
which they desire the concurrence of the
Senate"—And he withdrew.
1 he refutation was read.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr! Beckley their clerk :
" Mr. President—The President of the
United States hath notified the House of
Reprcfentatives, that he this day, appro
ved and signed the following acts—'* au
ast to authorise Ephraim Kimberly to To-'
cate the land warrant ifl'ued to him for
feiviees in the late American army," and
" an ast for the relief of Leffert Leffert?
and others"—And he withdrew.
Mr. Bradley reported from the com
mittee to whom was leferred the confide
, ration of the laws patted in the Territo
ry of the United States north-weft of the
river Ohio, from July to Ijecember
inclusive, that they be referred to the next
fefiion of Congress ; and the report was
adopted.
The Senate took into confederation,
" 1 he resolution to continue the present
embargo on (hips or vessels in the ports
of the United States, bound to any foreign
port or place."
On motion,
It was agreed to amend the refolntion
by striking out all the provisos, as follow.
" Provided that nothing, in this resolu
tion, be construed as intended to contra
vene any rights or privileges arising out of
treaty or treaties between any fore ign na
tion and the United States : And provi
ded also, that the President of the Unit
ed States be authorized to permit the fail
ing of any veflel for the sole purpose of
lodging in the courts of vice Admiralty
in any of the Weft India Islands, appeals
from sentences or decrees of the said
courts, whereby veflels or cargoes claim
ed by American citizen or citizens, have
[ been condemned ; Provided, that bond
with fufficient security be previously giv
en, that filch veflel ftiall not dire&ly or
indire&ly carry on any commerce whatso
ever during the voyage."
On the question to concur in the reso
lution as amended.
It pafled in the affirmative Yeas 17
—Nays 10.
The yeas and nays being required by
one fifth of the Senators present—
Those who voted in the affirmative,
are, ,
Messrs. Brown, Burr, Butler, Edwards,
Frelinghuyfen, Gunn, Hawkins, Henry,
Jackson, Izard, King, Langdon, Martin,VI jnroe, Potts, Rutherford, and Taylor.
' Those who voted in the negative, ajt,
Messrs. 8.-adford, Bra3l£y, C?bt)t, Ellf
worth, Foster, Livermbrej Morris, Ro
birifon,. Strong-and Vlnlngl
Ordered, That the Secretstfj* desire
the concurrence of the House of Repre
sentatives irftSe amendment t6 this relolur
tion.
A me'ffage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. B;ckley their clerk :
<< Mr. President—The House of Re
presentatives agree to the amendment of
the Senate to " The refutation to conti
nue the present embargo on (hips or vessels
in the ports of the United States, bound
to any foreign port or place"—And he
withdrew.
Tiie bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" an act to establish the poll-office and
poaft-roads within the United States,
was 111 part read the third time.
Ordered, That the further considera
tion of the bill at this time be poltponed.
Mr. Foster reported from the commit
tee on enrolled bills that tliry had exa
mined " The resolution to continue the
present embargo on (hips-qr veflels in the
United States, bound to any foreign port
or place," and that it was duly enrolled.
A mefii'ge From the Ho life of Repre
fentates by Mr. Beckley their clerk.:
" Mr. President—The Speaker of the
House of Representatives having signed
an enrolled I am dire&ed to
bring it to the Senate for the signature of
the ViCe-Prelident"—And he withdrew.
The Vice-President signed " The refo
luticm to continue the present embargojon
ships or veflels in the ports of the United
States bound to any foreign port or place,"
and it was delivered to the committee to
be laid before the President of the United
States for his approbation.
After the consideration of the executive
business,
The Senate adjourned td i 1 o'clock to
morrow morning.
From the General Advertiser.
Mr.BACHE,
A writer in your paper of Thursday,
who communicates to' the public, two re
solutions relative to Mr. Jay's appoint
ment as "Envoy to England, observes, that
he had been informed that a majority of
the Senate appeared to be of opinion, that
it was not compatible with the character
of Judge, to accept the office of an Envoy,
*but that/ the friends of Mr. Jay secured
his appointment,- " by Urging, that his de
licacy and sense of .propriety, would cer
tainly induce him to resign his office of
Chief justice, when he (hould accept the
' " A Correspondent who
pofTelles accurate inforrflation of what pas
sed in the Senate on this occasion, denies
the allegation that the friends of Mr. Jay,
declared it to be their opinion that he
would, or ought to, resign his office .of
; Chief Justice.
A Senator from an Eastern State, is
said to have observed, that Mr. Jay's being
Chef Jufti6e. constituted no objection to
his appointment to another office ; fop in
cafe of incompatibility, the former would
be resigned, adding that probably he
would resign the office of Judge if appoint
ed Envoy.
This unpremeditated conjecture, was
exprefiitd by no other Senator, nor is it
believed that it had any influence in Mr.
Jay's appointment.
It is a just principle that offices, the
duties of which interfere with each other,
ftiould not be conferred upon one man ;
but the difficult fituatisn of public affairs,
the peculiar nature of thebufmefs, and the
acknowledged fitnefs of a particular cha
racter, will juftify an occasional, and tem
porary departure from this general rule.
A Judge of the Supreme Court is an as
sociate officer ; an Envoy Extraordinary,
is a character employed for a (hort time,
and upon an urgent occasion : The judi
ciary department will proceed* (hould one
of their corps be engaged a few months as
an Envoy Extraordinary and the precedent
will not prove injurious.
Those know little of Mr.- Jay's private
character, who insinuate that avarice ii a
passion, that harbours in his bosom ; his
friends will have no cccafion to regret his
want of delicacy, in respect to what some
may have deemed an object, the pecuniary
emoluments of this appointment. Mr.
Jay is neither " alieni appetens, nec fui
profufus, " plain republican manners, and
oeconemy, distinguish his public, as well as
private life.
From the AtHtricaa Minerva.
The TIMES, No. VI.
New-England people turned ariftocratal
fay the southern gentlemen. This is v<ly
Let lis exarfjine the fa£l,and cpm
pare New-England ariltocracy with
ther.ii democracy An eaftera aristocrat
is a New-England farmed Nine oCit of
ten of all these people are men of fftiall
landed consisting of from 50 to,
200 acres of land, and worth from 1000
to 3000 dollars. There is not one in
twenty of theiri that ever owned a (lave ;
and those who hstve them are getting rid
of them as fail as they can, without in
jury to the slaves. The farmer himfelf,
his wife, his sons and daughters all labor
in pcrfom, oh the farm or at the spinning
wheel. A farmer in New-England who
does got labor in person, is no more to be
found than.a planter in Virginia or Caro
lina who does. If they have occasion to
hire men, they aflociate with
them, arid eat..at the fame table. In a
whole village there is little or no distinc
tion of rank—the and mechanics,
the justice of peace and thd blacksmith
all aflociate on equal terms. There is nb
such. thing a3 a farmer's commanding his
workmen—he treats them all as his equals.
These people are generally very civil and
obliging—they make bovfrs to each'other,
and teach their children to do the feme.
This is New-England aristocracy. r
Virginia democracy is a very different thing
—A democrat in the southern states is. a
planter, or other perfion, who owns a
large number of slaves; who is above.la
bor himfelf, and _not only so, but is above
the diudgery of oyerfeeing his own busi
ness. He commits it to a steward and a
negro driver. He eitabliflies all the ranks
of the feudal system in his own family.
The planter is king, or tord paramount
—his children are nobles—-the tutor, the
{teward and clerk are the commons' —and
the laboring people and blacks are the
vaflals. Yet this planter is a mighty de
mocrat —a warm (tickler-for the rights of
men—for liberty—and what is more, e
' quality. This little domestic monarch
writes and spouts inceflantly about the
funding system and the danger of power.—
He will not labor—not he—-.that is the
business of slaves.—He will not aflociate
with laboring people—he will not eat at
the fame table. His sons must not labor,
this would difgracc them—"they are seen
at a tavern from morning to night, saw
ing on a fiddle, and playing at billiards.
A New-England artflocrat, on Sunday
puts saddle and pillion on his team-horse,
takes his wife behind him, and his child
on a pillow before him, and rides to
church, and when he gets home, he reads
a sermon, or a chapter in the Bible, and
teaches h(s children some catechism.
The fouthem democrat on Sunday gets
into his coach, if he has it, or can borrow
one, and accompanied with two or three
dirty, ragged* half naked slaves, rides to
/ some friends, or to some amnfement. It is
idle to deny these things—thousands of eye
witnefles can attest them. Let the truth then
be acknowledged. Let the charge of ari/lo
oracy fall where it ought. The northern
people are the mod democratical in the uni
verfe —equality reigns among them in reali
ty —but they refpeft law and order, and when
they have a government, they wish to keep it.
Foreign Intelligence.
COPENHAGEN, March I.
About four o'clock last Wednesday
evening, an alarm of fire was given from
the palace. It firll appeared in tfye upper
{lory of the south corner of the fiont fide,
which'is to the westward ; and, although
every endeavor was used to extinguish the
flames, they soon began to spread to the
northward. About half past fix the Royal
family were told that little or no hopes of
favtng the palace were left: they retired
to another quarter of the town.
The flames were affilted by a frefh gale
of wind from the fouth-ealt, and about
half past eight the spire was burnt down*
At ten o'clock, the whole boc!y of this
immense building was in a blaze, which
at once exhibited a very grand but awful
scene In Ihort, the whole palace of
Chriltianburgh was reduced to the b; r;
walls, in the course of fix hours. Both
th; wings were also 011 fire, and the north
one reduced ; but, by the great exertions
of the burghers, the south wing, although
burnt down, was prevented from commu
nicating to the Chancery and Museum
Had the fire caught either the one or tl e
pther, jt would have beeH impoflible to
have saved the bank or magazines.
The houses on the Strand were also
much endangered, as the wind blew di
rectly upon them ; and large pieces of
burning wood were flying about in the
streets. The conflagration mult have been
seen all over the island, I suppose, such a
fccne was never beheld in the world ; —fo
great a pile of building dellroyed in so
(hort a space of time. It rs said, that ma
ny of the people.have been burnt, but as
yet there are no particular accofunts of the
number. Very little of the furniture or
effects were saved. The King's private
library was destroyed, as were moll of the
papers and books in the high court. The
damages will amount to many millions.
* ' V
The royal family are universally pitied,
and much praise is due to the prince royal,
who was all the night walking about, with
out any attendants, to prevent disorders
—This (hewed his confidence in the peo
ple.
FRA.NKFORT, Feb. *8.
The names of the French commiflaries,
which arrived here on the 15th inft. are O
chet,Paris and Fitterman ; they were escort
ed by a body of Prussian hufiars, and rode in
a ccfach, on each corner of which was a red
cap, and before the tri-colour flag.
Just before they got to the White Swan
Inn, at which they alighted, a foreigner tore
down the latter, but he was immediately seiz
ed, and ca-iried to the Guard House. The
populace appeared in tumultous' numbers,
but the guards prevented their insulting the
Comm flaries, and a Prufiian Sentinel does
duty at the door of the White Swan Inn,
whilst they remain here.
\ • v ; r^'
BERLIN, March 1.
No extraordinary preparations are yet
making in any of our arsenals of a warlike
appearance, and every thing remains at pre
sent in a state of suspense.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Fepruary 15.
Barrere communicated the following arti-
cles relative to the armies
ROYALISTS DEFEATED.
General Duquefnoy thus writes from
Pont de Noyers, the 2 2d, of Pluviofe
(ioth February.)
* " At last 1 have met the famous army
of Charette, a quarter of a league from
Pont de Noyers 011 the great road to Nantes.
My light troops on the left, engaged in a
briik fire with their advanced guard. At
two o'clock in the afternoon, I repaired
to the field of battle ; as fact as my 'batta
liogs arrived, 1 drew them up, and the
fire was very hot on both fides. In the
onset these vagabonds not only refilled,
but advanced upon us—when seven of my
battalions were ranged, the charge was
beat. The enemy, on their fide, produ
ced three new battalions that had been
concealed in a wood. The combat lasted
an hour, and was very hot. Our' troops
at length - repulsed the Rebels, in every
part, the gveateft part of whom threw a
way their arms and fled into the wood ;
about eight hundred bit the dust. I
have, in the -whole, almolt one hundred
.men killed and wounded. My Aid-de
camp L'Anglojs had his horse killed un
der him. We know not whither the Re
bels are fled."
Gen. Tureau writes from Saumur, the
2Jth, and confirms this news. He adds,
" we arefeid to have been beaten at Cho
let, whereas we have gained-there a com
plete victory. 1 was at Angers the 33d,
and they said here yelterday, that Pont
de Ce was taken 011 the 23d, &c. Gen.
Cordelier, who has beaten the enemy at
Cholet, has orders to pursue them with
out intermission.
" He tells rae, that Laroche Jaquelin
is killed, and buried at Trementrin.
Thirtyreports have been made of that
event, and they all agree. It is however,
certain, that he was not present at the
battle of Cholet, and that it was his ar
my which attacked that town, command
ed by Stofflett. 1 have ordered General
Cordelier to cause the body of Laroche
Jaquelin to be disinterred, and to try to
gain a certain proof of his death.
A SKIRMISH.
General Pichegru writes from head
quarters at; Reunion fur Oife, that he has
visited many of the cantonments, and
finds the foldieiy in the highest lpirits.
He fends a letter of Brigadier-Geueral
Moreau, dated from CafTel, which an
nounces, that on the 13th (Feb. 1) 700
men who set out from Ypres, attacked the
poll of Botfjhequefie, defended by no more
than 350 of our Chafleiirs. The enemy
entered the village ; our troops retreated
into the Church, from the tower of r.hich
they kept up such a fire on the Slaves,
that they were obliged to retiie, leaving
thirteen killed in the burial place, befidc*
eight found afterwards near the road to
Veftrade, —we took also nine prifojiers
and twenty one fufils.
ATTEMPT of the ENGLISH on''
CORSICA. v
LacombeSt. Michel, Representative of
the people, at Batia, in Corsica, writes,
uuder date of the 2d Pluviofe, that an
English squadron menacfd these coalts.
On the preceeding evening three large vcf
fels approached Nouza, in the Gulph of
St. Florefit, and attempted to land tome
troops to burn the mills ; but.some (loops
with grenadiers, and an armed felucca put
off, and the English retired.
The frigate Melpomene, being becalm
ed, was attacked by two English frigates,
two leagues from Calvi. The English, as- -
ter three hours fight, left the French (hip.
It appears that the principal delign cf
the English at this moment, is to take
from us those towns in Corsica that re
main faithful to the Convention, but
chance has not favored their efforts.—
Grain comes in to us from many parts.
February 28.
Two recent advantages have been gain;-
ed over the enemies of the Republic.—
-The fii-ft took place on the 14th of Feb.
near Beken, Brigadier General,Dnmon
ceau, and Col. Wattiil commanding at
Poßt a Bruck, at the? head of a detach
ment of the 10th regiment of Calvados,
and another of the. chafTeurs of the 13th
forming-in all a coips of 100 men, met,
in patroling, a body of the enemy, in
number Ht least fix times greater, cornpo
fed of English cavalry and Austrian in
fantry. They made the attack, with Re
publican courage, and the event was'not
doubtful, they made at ler.ft fifty of
the enemy bite the dnft, took
number of and 28 horses. We
loft only a lingfc.man, a quarter-matter,
who is regretted'by the whole corps.
11 \ '
LONDON, Feb. 27.
ARMY OF THE WEST.
This army is receiving daily reinforce
ments. A large detachment has been
sent off to qurll the dilhubances which
have been occasioned by a body of royal
ifls.
A French frigate has sent into Brest,
a Spanifti veftcl laden with 78,800 pias
tres. Within the (pace of one mouth,
x Bo British (hips have been sent into this
harbor. The fauadron commanded hy
Keranguen, and which was sent to con
voy the expedition to America to a cer
tain latitude, returned the 10th instant,
without having met witli any interrupt
. tion from the fleet of the enemy. The
squadron brought 16 prizes laden with
corn, and destined for Spain.
The army of the North, tho'
the Committee of Public Safe
ty, has fixed its increase at
180,000 will be augmented Men.
to - ' - - 220,000
The united armies of the Rhine
and the Moselle, to
The army of the Alps, to
The army of the Eailern Pyren
nees, to
The army of the South, to
The army of the Weil, to
This augmentation will be produced,
without having recouife to the men of
the fccond requifilion.
At Vienna every coffee-houfe and ta
vern-keeper is obliged to give up one of
the waiters ; the fame is done by every
publican. All are obliged to enter into
military service, and their places are to be
supplied with women.
Cairiere, in a late fitting of the Jaco
bins, acknowledged that there might Itill
be 20,000 rebels in La Vendee, though
scattered over 40 Jquare leagues of ground.
This fhtt, he said, gave him no uneasi
ness, because he knew that the Conventi
on had 40,000 men in'the country, who
would fojn put the orders of the commit
tee of Public Safety in execution, as his
Colleague, Garau and Hentz, were full
of Zealand activity. But, added he,
long as there is one robber in La Vendee,
the cor.fpiiators will talk of a Catholic ar
my !
OnTucfday fe'night five Roman Ca
tholic Clergymen .were admitted to De
grees in the Univeriity 'of Dubun bung
Brest, Feb.
280,000
6ojOoo
80,000
do,ooo
80,000
780,cc0
Total
March It.the fit ft Gehtleman, avowedly of that re
ligious persuasion ever admitted.
Mr. Warburton, late one of the Ex
ons belonging to his Mijetty's Yeomen of
the Guard at -St. James's, is among the
few English, who were- guillptiued ror
' {edition by the National Convention Com
mittee at L.yons, in December la(t.
Accounts were received yesterday from
Portsmouth, that four of the French fri
gates which wer«j at the mouth of the
Channel, popped a Poltuguefe veflel and
sent each a boat on board. After exa
mining the (hips papers, they fuffered her
to proceed on her voyage, declaring to
the Captain that the French Republic
considered Portugal as a neutral power. —
Indeed the recent conduit of that King
cN n seems to attach some weight to this
declaration !
The Admiralty has received certain
intelligence 'that 30 French provision
{hips, under thfe convoy of the Ambus
cade, have arrived in fafety at Brest from
America.
UNITED STATES.
BALTIMORE, April 26.
On the 30th of December last, the revol
utionary tribunal of Lyons ordered the ktiigs
of Great Biitain, Spain, Prussia, and Sardi
nia, the Emperor, the Pope, and Mr. Pitt,
to be executed in the great square of that
city. They v, ere accordingly, in effigy, sur
rendered to the executioner and guillotined.
To heighten the impression produced by this
national farce, Tculon wr.s exhibited under
the form of a woman, wearing on her breali
the words, " I have betrayed my country:"
On the other—" lam the w of Kings."
This figure was afterwards burnt amidst the
louden acclamations of the people, who were
fiaging and dancing around the funeral pile.
ANNAPOLIS, April 24.
To the Printerj 0} the Maryland Gazette.
Gentlemen,
KIS Excellency the Governor laving re
ceived from John Francis Mercer,Efauire,
the cnclbled letter of resignation, has thought
it proper that the reaion afiigned by that
gentleman for resigning his trust, and the
lcr.timcnts of gratitude and attachment he
cxpreffes towards his conltiruents, should be
made public, and has therefore directed that
the aid letter be publilhed in your next Ga
zette.
I am, Gentlemen,
Your obedient servant,
JOHN KILTY, Clerk of
the council.
April aifti J794.*
Marlborough % April i jtf>, 1794.
SIR,
EXTREME indisposition in my family
delayfcd my attendance in Congrcfs until a
late period in the prelent feflion—an increas
ed iiinefs recalled me suddenly, and will pre
vent mv return in any reasonable time—ln
the present crisis of public affairs, my confli
tuents ought not to remain unrepresented,
and whillt I feel that no motive regarding
myfelf personally could prevent my discharg
ing the trust they have confided to me, yet
this b :ing of a nature to preclude all heiita
tion, I deem't my next duty to place it as
early as pofiible in the power of the consti
tuent body to replace me by one whom more
propitious cireumftances may enable to at
tend—l therefore resign my feat in Congress,
as reprefehtative of the third diftricfl of Ma
ryland.—Permit me at the fame time, thro'
you, to return my thanks to my friends of
that diftridt—their diiinterelted and generous '
support so repeatedly experienaed, are deeply
engraven on my memory, and will only be
eraled by the hand of time with the mind
on which tVy are imprefled—To you, Sir !
I effer my personal ref'peii and attachment,
and have the honour to be,
Tour moil obedient humble servant,
JOHN F. MERCER.
His excellency the Governor of Maryland.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 30.
The New York papers of yesterday in
form that Mr. Jay will fail from that port in
a few days for London.
From Correspondents.
The jargon of our anarchists isworthey
of being remembered, in order to mark
its contradictions. Sometimes an excise,
or frigates, or regiments, mu!l not be a -
greed to, because our government is found
ed on the confidence of the people. At
other times a measure is cppofed, because
a republican Confutation iubfifts by the
yalpufy of the people. Thus our Repub
lic relts on two foundations, jeafoufy and
ocnfidence—the proverb fays Tomethiog a
bout two llools.
The manner of supporting and admi
ntflenng government is not unlike this
theory. They would have us believe no
body is so jealous of its fafety : Yet a so
reign agent acting here in a mariner to
outrage and subvert it, has all their sup
port. That foreign agent (said they)
mull be refpeited, feaited, and carelfed,
liecaufe he was the representative of the
Republic. The firft magiilrate of this
country was treated with unexempled out
rage, for pursuing a system of wife neu
trality. Yet these are the men. who pre
tend to be eyes and mouths for the people,
and who dread above all things, foreign
influence. Lately the fame faction has
opposed preparation for war and negotia
tion to prevent it. They were moving
heaven and earth againit an envoy being
sent, against frigates being eqiuped, taxes
levied, and troops : Yet they afteit to be
the champions for our trade, which they
nurse and pamper by knocking it on the
head with a prohibition. Then very sen
sibly and confidently they go to work to
pile up tax upon tax on trade. The his
tory of our faction would amuse and unde
ceive the people.
The (hamelefs profligacy of some who
call themselves Republiear.s ; their total
want of principle, public and private,
would form a whimlieal and (hocking con
trait with the puritanism of their political
cant. We have several Catalines—if we
had as many Sallufts to write»their lives,
the good citizens would have no more to
fear from their intrigues.
Mr. Goodhue this day, in the House of
Reprsferitatives of the United States laid on
the table, the following resolution ; previous
to which he observed, {hat as the session was
drawing towards a close, it behoved Congress
to take' the fubjeft of the spoliations made
on our commerce into consideration, and
quiet the mercantile interest of this country
by aflurauces, that indemnification should be
made for the immense lofles they had sustain
ed by British spoliation, to which upon every
principle of justice as well <»s pol'cy, they
were intitled ; he had fpecified no fund from
which the indemnification should be made,
as he conceived we should be better prepared
to do-that when the result of the intended
negociation. was knoynj than we were at
present.
Whereas, it is a primary object in the es
tablishment of civil government, to pro
tect tlie persons and property of its ci
. tizens from the violence of nations as
w«ll as individuals : And whereas ma- ;
nj ot* the citizens of the United States
have fuffcrecl great lofles, by spoliation
made on their commerce under the au
. thority of Great Britain, in violation
of the law nations ancl the rights of
neutrality.
Resolved, by the Senate and House of
Riprefentativcs of the United States of A
mcrica in Ctngrefs nffembled, That the U
nited States will guarantee an indemnifi
cation to all such Citizens of the United
States, whose property may have been
captured and confiscated under the autho
rity of Great Britain, in violation of the
law of nations and the rights of neutral
ity.
ExtraS of a letter from Klng/lon, Jamaica,
dated March 24.
" By direction of the governor and coun
cil, our ports are opened from this day to the
ioth October next, for the importation of
every species of provifionsand lumber, both
in Br;ti(h and other bottoms in amity with
his Majefly, accompanied with a proviso
that fix months notice will be given previous
to their being closed."
Mr. Milbourne of the New Theatre de
serves the tribute of applause for the produc
tions of his pencil during the present thea
trical campaign. The talents which the
scenery of the New Theatre evinces is only
equalled by the indefatigable induflry of the
painter, who produces at almoli every per
formance an addition to the great variety of
scenes already finifhed.
St. Luufc, a letter of the 7th inft. from
Statu fays, is positively taken by the Britilh,
after some refiflance.
w '^r' rt ' r * onc P a^en S ers arr ' v ed here in the
William Penn, and a greater number in the
Ohio at .New York, chief of whom were of
the Scotch Convention, forced to fly from
perfecUtion.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 29.
THE Belvidere left Plymouth on the
Btii of March, and brought London pa
pers up to the 4th. Previous to her leav
ing Plymouth, accounts were received
from Ireland, that about 2000 men had
afUmbled 111 arms; the troops were sent
to suppress them ; one of the principal
ringleaders was taken ; it was the general
opinion, it would be of but short durati
on. The greatest exertions were making,
by all the different powers, for a vigorous
campaign, which was thought woulti be:i
very early and bloody one. Lord
Ravvdon, with a body of British a.:J
Heflian troops, was at the isle of Wight,
and its vicinity. Transports had Liled
from Oftend, to bring i*er an additional
number of foreign troops, to compleat
the army" under his command, 'to about
iz,ooo men, who, it was said, were to
make a delcent on the cojlt of France.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, March 4.
Letter from his Serene Highness the
Duke of Brnnfwick, to the Prince
Royal of Pruilia.
Mentz, Jan. 24.
" The concern which your Royal High
ness has been pieafed to teftify on account
of my retreat from the army, inspires
,me with th« molt heartfelt 'gratitude
Nothing but a conjuncture of circumstan
ces as difaltrous as Uncommon, could have
prevailed on me to adopt a measure which
is so affecting for myfelf.
" I have been highly flattered by the
opportunities I have now and then found
to approach your Royal Highness and to
admire in you thofc talents which cannot
t'Ail to place you among the great men of
our age. Europe stands truly in need of
them, at a time, when near 400,000 com
bitants, and 80 line of battle (hips, sup
ported by an intestine war, > have in vain
endeavored to crulh that confederation of
crimes which is tyrannizing over France.
I am eminently happy to find that my
zeal in serving a good cause, has notefca
ped your Royal notice. Ve
ry unfortunately, indeed, the movements
of the army have been often paralized at
the very time when the greatest energy
and exertion were required.
" If, after the surrender of' Mentz;
,Houchard had been attacked, forced back,
and defeated, the reinforcements which
ftrcngthcned the army of the North would
not have reached it, and of course the
check near Maubeuge would have been
avoided.' Saar Louis, ill-provided with
provision, and dcflitute of all prote&ion
from bombs, would in all probability, have
been reduced within a fortnight. Alsace
might then have been turned by the Saar.
The pofleflion of Lauter would have af
forded more solid advantages; and if, by
all pollible means, the junction of the ar
mies of the Rhine and the Moselle had
been prevented, and the point of Bou
queron gained, Strafbourgh would have
been threatened, and Landau very likely
subdued.
" I beg your royal highnefs's pardon
for expreiling my regrets. Complaints
are useless, I know, but sometimes they
afford a momentary relief. Permit me on
ly to add, that if you have any influence
over iny successor, I would wish you to
prevail on him to employ all his credit to
prevent the frittering of the army into
too numerous detachments; the conse
quence of which is, that being every where
too weak to adl on an offenfive plan, our
troops are obliged to confine themselves to
defenfive measures with the enemy we have
to combat, which is a fault produdlive of
the most pernicious consequences. 1 .
" It is with the fincerelt regret I leave
an army which has inspired me with the
highest esteem, admiration, and attach
ment."
CONGRESS."
ifoufe of Reprejeuiatfuis Aprtl 25.
Monday, April 28.
Mr. Gillon, a new member from South-
Carolina, was qualified and took his ftat.
The Clerk proceeded in the reading the
evidence in' the contested election between
Mr. Francis Preston one of the fitting mem
bers from Virginia, and Mr. Trigge.
When the Clerk had finifhea the reading,
Mr. Prellon rose to enter upon a reply. He
observed that the difcufiion of this -queltion
had been so long defeired very much against
his wilhes. But as it now was two o'clock
in the afternoon, and as it would require
more than an hour for him to go through
his remarks, he ftiould, if agreeable to the
house, defer beginning thein till to-morrow.
At the fame time, if it was more agreeable
to gentlemen, he ihould eruer upon the fub
je£t now.
Ater a few words from Mr. W. Smith,
and Mr. Trigge, it was determined to defer
the business till to-morrow.
The house then went into a committee on
■ the report refpefling the better regulation of
the courts of justice ia some of the southern
ftatea. ■ ' ■
Mr. S. Smith (Maryland) stated the in
convcniencies that arose trom the present ar
i angement of the courts in the state for which
he was a repreientative. It was at one period
of a cause requilite to travel to the eallera\
iliore of the Chefapeak, and hire an attorney
for going to that difiance. In another stage
of the question, the whole business was trans
ferred to an opposite fide of rhe bay. This
was in the trial of criminal cases, attended
with many inconveniancies. The member
mentioned an instance of a captain of a veflel
who had been apprehended for smuggling ;
but while they were conducting him across
the bay to his trial, he seized a proper oppor
tunity, jumped out of the boat, swam alhoVe,
away he went, and was never heard of.
Mr. Macon, Mr. W. Smith, Mr. Nicho
las, Mr. Fitzfimons, and ftveral other mem
bers, spoke to the question. Numerous in
cohveniencies were stated, as ar'.fing from
the present arrangement of courts of law.
One particular circumstance may serve as a
specimen. In some places of the southern.
ftafe, a person may, for a cause of twenty
dollars, be put to the trouble and expence of
travelling backwards and forwards, to the
extent altogether of nine hundred miles, bo
fore he can be fare of obtaining a deciiion.
It was admitted that considerable grievances
of this kind exist.d, but to point out an ef
fectual remedy seemed very difficult.
Mr. Fitzfimons was of opinion that the
house (hould endeavour to expedite this af
fair if possible, as they had many other fub
jecfts on hand, and if they did not quicken
their progress, he forefaw that, at the end of
the session, a great part of the public busi
ness would remain undone ; he therefore re
commended dispatch.
At three o'clock the committee rofc, the
chairman reported progress, and the house
adjourned.
April 29.
This day the House proceeded in the
coniideration of the contested election of
Mr. Piellon—That gentleman addrefTed
the House on the occasion, i(i a speech.
about one hour long—some cbfervations
were made by several members—and on
the question to agree to the report of the
committee, which was agaiuft the ele&ion,
as irregular—it pafied in the negative—
by which vote Mr. Predion retains his feat.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Ship Thomas Chalkky, Butler, Norfolk
Brig Conflant, Miles, Washington
Scirs. Favourite, Folger, Virginia
Jolly, Robbin Price, George-Town
CLEARED.
Brig Noah's Ark, Skinner,
Norfolk, Art,
Schrs. Favourite, Arnold,
Prefidcnt, Tupman,
Slooop Virginia, Segurn;',
r - o" _
Nancy, Bowen,
Swallow, Campbell,
Dispatch, Johnson, Baltimon
The ship George Barclay, Capt. Collett,
from London, is arrived in the Delaware,
Capt. Collett left Gravefend the 15 th of
March ; in the George Barclay came a num
ber of paiTengers, report fays 80.
The Powerful, an Englifo 74 gun (hip was
call ashore in Jamaica, where her bottom
was greatly damaged, in which state ftie lay,
when Capt. Latimer left that place.
Captain Watts, Apri: 20th in lat. '35
30. spoke the Schooner Waftiington Capt.
— fiom Surinam, bouutl to Bolton
out 21 days.
The following lines ought to have been in
serted immediately preceding the name, in Mr.
Abercrombie's publication in lafi Monday's
Gazette. >
In return for the Layman's pra'vers, for
the encreai'e of my charity, I offer him my
sincere wishes for the impiovement of his
memory, and his future attention to candor
and veracity.
NEW
THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
April 30.
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, called the
Highland Ree/,
To which will be added,
A New serious Pantomime,
called '
La Foret Noire,
OR THE
NATURAL SON.
With New Music by Mr. R inagle, and
New Scenery by Mr. Milburn.
Ladies and Gentlemen are rcquefted to
fend their servants to keep places, at half an
hour pall 4 o'clock, and to order them to
withdraw, as soon as the company are seated
as they cannot on any account be permitted
to remain in the boxes, nor any places kept
after the firft adl^
Wilmington
Charleiton
Richmond
% Nor.clk
do.
Snow-Hill
do.Philadelphia, Marchi, 171)4.
JUST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHEW CAREY,
No. 113, lAarktt Jlreet,
A'HE FIRST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography:
OR, A
Geographical, Hijlorical, and
Commercial Grammar;
And p'-efent state of the several
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CON TAINING,
t. figures, motions, and distances of
tbe planets, according to the Newtonian sys
tem and. the latest obfervitions
2. A general view of tbe earth, considered
as a planet; witji several ufeful geographical
definitions and problems.
3 The g< and divisions of the globe into
land and wafer, continents and islands.
4. The iituation and extent of empires,
kingdoms, llates, provinces and cojonies.
5 TUeir climate?, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, metals, minerals, natural curi.
ofities, sea., rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
aiid lakes.
6 The oirds and beads peculiar to each,
cou try. ,
7. Observation? on the changes that haVe
been any where ob erved upon the face of na
ture since the inoft earjy periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations ; theit
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
nues, taxes, naval and military strength.
9 Tiie ;ius, manners, customs, and ha
bits of the peop'.e.
id. The r language,learning,arts,fciences
manufa&ures, and commerce.
11. The chief cities, Itru&ures, ruins, am
artifi ial curiolities.
12. Trie longitude, latitude, bearings, am
diftauces of principal places 11 oiri Philadelphi?
To which arc added.
1. A Geographical Index, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
a. A Table of the Coiss of all nations, and
tbsir value in dollars and cents.
3. A Chronological Table of remarkable
events, f rom toe creation to the present time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, E/q.
The Astronomical Part corre&e'd by
Dr. Rittenhouse.
To which have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herschell,
a id other eminent Astronomers.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrected, Improved, ajjd greatly Enlarged.
The firft volume contain* twenty-one Maps
and Charts, besides two Astronomical Plates,
viz.
1. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world.
3, Europe. 4. Asia. 5. Africa. 6. South
America- 7. Cook's difcovenes. 8. Coun
tries round the north Pole. 9. Sweden, Den
mavk, and Norway. 10. Seven United Pro
vinces. 11 Austrian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. 13- Seat of war
in Fiance. 14. France divided intodepait
ments. 15. Switzerland. :6. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
18. Vurkey in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 20. Weft-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22. Ar
inillary sphere. 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
the press, wjll be given the following Maps:
1. Rufiia in Europe and Alia.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
5. China.
6. Hindoftan.
•j. United States.
g. British America.
9. S vte of New'.Hamplhire.
,0. State of Maffichufetts.
ji. State of Connecticut.
j2. State M" Rhodi Island.
,3. State of New-YOl k.
14- State of New-Jersey.
15- State of Pennsylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18- State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
23. State of North-Carolina.
it. TennelTee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23- State of Georgia.
TERMS.
j. This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
iiSt cents for boards.)
3. They .nay receive the fucreeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finilhed, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The I'nbfcription will be raised on the firft
day of June 1794? to fourteen dollars, ex
clusive of binding.
j. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
6. The names of the fubferibers will be pub
lished as patrons of American literature,
arts, and ftieiices.
It is wholly unnecefTary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American readers, that this edi
tion pofleiles, over every imported edition of
any system of Geography extent. The addit
tion of maps of the several state-, procured a
a very great expense, and from the best ma
terials that are attainable, I'peaks fuel) full
conviction on this fubjeft, that it would be
difrefpeft to the reader's understanding to
suppose it requisite to enter into a detail of
argujnents to prove its superiority. In 110
similar work have such maps beenever intro
duced.
' » f
The euiiadatims and Motions Which are
ra*de in this wjrk.are innumerable, and ocpni
i*n ever/ page. The public are referred to
llV« preface for a, flight JLetch of a few of
them- ,
.The pubJifher takes the present opportu
niry of returning his most fin cere thanks to
thole refptstable characters who have favored
him with Jocuiuents for impioving the maps
of several of the He requests a conti
nuance of their kindness; and hopes that such
public fpifrted citizens, as ire polfefled of fi
inilar documents, will favor him with their
afliflan<*e in perfecting his undertaking.
Tne extraordinary encouragement with
which he has been favored, has excited
in his breast the warmett sentiments of grati
tude—fentim mi ts which time will not efface.
He pledges himfelf to the citizens of the
United States, to fptre ncilbetr nor ex
peufe to r ender the p:\fent edition cfGu'h i-*s
Geography improved, deserving of their pa
tronage. waftf
Pennsylvania Hofpltal,
4ft) Mi ith, 5 1: 1 794.
The Contributors are desired
to attend the Election, to be hel j at th<
HosptTAL on 1 hef st.i day of the sth Month
next, at 3 o'clock in the afternoon ;to choose
twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for
the enfurng year:
By o»der of a board of Managers.
Samuel Coates, clerk.
STATE of SOUfH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Reprefe.italivcs,
DICtMBEU 2 1 It, 1 793 '
WHEREAS the Comin.fliwners of public
Accounts, h,.vc reported, that they cao
not proceed to the of the Trcafury
Accounts, relpr&iug Ipccial Indents, without
knowing the ouiftandrog amount thereof in cir
culation :—ibercfoic,
Rcfolvcd, Tnat all holders of special Inde nts
be directed, and rpqun 0, on or befoie the firft
day of November u xt, > deliver the fp.cial In
dents in their poiF llion io »ne or other os-tire
Commidioners of the Trsatury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to rep -rt to ibeCo.n
miflioners on oublic accounts,, on or befoic t ie
tenth day Of November next, the amount by
thena refpetlively received, and' also to tli Le
gHljture, at their m»- lirtg in Nov<mbei n xt.
and that all i pec 1a I Indents not rendered m >
the Tieafuty as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, .'hail be, and the fame aie
heieby barred.
Rejoined, That publi: notice of this lefolntion
be given in the leveral Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, an il the fijlt day o;
November next And <hat 'he Delegates of this
State in the Congress ol the United S ates, be re
queued to cause this rcfolution to be pubhftvd
in one or more papeis in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for the expences attending such publica
tion.
. Ordered, That the refplution be sent to the
Senate for their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SAN'ORD DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
December 21(1,1793.
Rcfolved, That this House do concur with the
House of Representatives in the foregoing refo
lution^.
Ordered, Tlrat tire resolutions be lent to the
House of Reprelentatives.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLfeY, Clerk
ewtNov.
"advertisement:
OF the money robbed from the mail near
Baltimore, by Doftoi Gant, 110 dollars were
afterwards lent by ill unknown hand, to the
Poftmaller at Baltimore, who transmitted
the fame to the General Puft Office. The fuf
ferers by that robbery are aefired to state the
amount of tbeir lofles respectively, and trauf
mit the fame, w th the original letters of their
correspondents (where recovered) or other
evidence thereof to tbe General Pofr Office,
before the fi'ft day of June next, immediate
ly alter which adivideud will be made among
the claimants.
TIMOTHT PICKERING,
Past Majler Genera!.
Gen. Post Office, April 4, 1794 iaw6w
Lately Publiflied.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
THE History of New-Hampfliire, from the
Difcovciy of the Riser Pifcataqua—by Je
remiah Belknap, t). D. 3 Vo!«. Price in Boards,
4 1-2 Dollars.
The Forrefter, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Clothier.
Prce, 75 Cents.
A Difcnurfe, intended to commemorate the
Discovery of America by Chnitopher Colum
bus; delivered at the requcft of the Historical
Society in Maffichufetts, October 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Thud Century]
(incc that memorable event. To which are
added, F«>ur Donation*, conne&ed with the
fubjc&—By the fame author. Puce, 50 Cents.
March 17. tuin&row
PASSAGE POUR ST. DO MING UE.
Tous lcs Franpois qui fe font prefeme
ou voudront fe presenter pour avoir une
prompte paiTage pour St. Domingue, font in
(lamment pries de laiffcr leurs 110 ms aujoui
d hui ou demain, dans le comptoir de James
Mc. Curach & Co. No 42 Dock street, qui
fe propofent d'envoyer son batiaient le Same,
di procliain 3 de Mai: le batiment ell lout
pret pour faire a la voiie avec des bonnes ac
commodations ponr prendre paflagers a bord
April 29. 3 ,
Treasury Department,
Revenue Office, Apt il J9, 1794-
NOTICE is hereby given, that propilal:
will be received at the office of the Coinimf
fioner of* the Revenue until the sixth of May
next inclusively, for the lupply of all Ra
tions, which may be required during the cur
rent year, at the city of Philadelphia, for
the recruiting service.
The rations to be furniftied are to consist
of the following articles, vi
One pound of bread or flour.
One p »und of beef, or 3 4 of a pound pork
Half a gill of ruin, brandy or whisky
One quart of fait, S
Two quarts vinegar C n _
rp,, > Per 100 rations
I wo pounds soap C
One pound candles J
April 2i.
Concluding Sales.
THE Subscriber having entered into Co*
partHerfliip with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the bufin®fs of Sugar Refining, will dispose
of the
Remaining Stock on hand
consisting of
Silver, Plated, & Japan "Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By Whole/ale at Prime Coji for Cajh.
John Dorfey,
No. 22, North ltreet.
tntb&jiw
April lu.
TO BE SOLD,
And entered upon the firft ot May,
The noted EJlate, called
JohnJon Hall:
Lying in the Moi. a w'< country, state qf New
Yoik, formerly the feat of Sir William John
son, seven hundred acres at
land) which is of the very heft quality ; togc-
Ther wiihtheftock, and farming utensils. The
buildings arc large and convenient, and fit for
a gentleman's feat. The payments will be made
easy, on good fecurty. For luither particulars
enquire of George Metcalf, Esq. on the premtf.
es, of Silas Talbot, fcfq. at Philadelph a, ot
Samuel Ward and Brothers, in New York, \or
of the iubfcnber in Providence.
Jabe% Bow en.
JUST PUBLISHED,
B Y
THOMAS DOBSON,
dookfeller, at the Stone Rouse in Second Jlreet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA,
OR A
Dictionary of slrts, Sciences, aud Mifcel-
laneous Literature,
ON a plan enti ely new ; by which the dif
ferent sciences and arts are digelled into the
form of diftinft treatiies or systems. This
volume contains the articfrs, medals, medi
cine, metallurgy, metaphysics, methodists,
Mexico, microscope, midwifry, and a great
variety of biographical and mifceilaneous ar
ticles, illustrated with nineteen copperplates.
The tables of logarithms, &rc. which
were deficient in the tenth volume, are sub
joined to this.
Eleven vo!umesof this work are now pub
lished, and the Xllth is in some forwardness.
On the firft of September, 1792, the price
nffubfcription was incrcafed TtN dollars on
all ferts not taken befpre that t me. The sub.
fcription isftill open on these terms, and if
any copies remain by the si (V of July nexr,the
pi ice will be tailed TEN dollars more, on
any copies which may be subscribed for after
that period.
%* As many of the fubferibers have taken
only two, three or four, See. volumes, they are
earnestly requested to take up and pay for the
remaining volumes, as it becomes difficult to
complete thefetts, and the publiftier does not
hold himfelf bouud to make uj> any setts after
the firft day of July next.
April 22,
ESS E NC E
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold ly Dr. Lis, Golden
'rt v »
Square, London.
THE public is offered one of the moi
efficacious and fafe medicines, th:it ever ap
peared, lor that molt excruciating pain, th<
Tooth-Ache—the numerous instances of it'
happy effects, in relieving the afflicted, havi
now brought it into iniverfal estimation ; i
not only relieves the tooth-ache, but is of ch,
utmost service in curing the SCURVY in thi
Gums, in preventi„g the difagieeable fine!
that is produced from unf'ound teeth, & wil
occasion a f'weet breath; it likewise prevent
the teeth from decaying, and will be founc
a general preferverof the Teeth and Gum
Sold in Philadelphia only at
Poyntell's Stationary Store.
No. 2i, Second ltreet.
April 24.
tr Those persons who
undertake to cut timber or wood of any kind
whatever, from any lands of the real cftate of
the late Richard Stockton Esq. deceased, in
the weflem precinct of the county of Smnerfet
in the Hate ot New Jcifey, under a pretencfc of
« right-to cut on lands adjacent, are u quelled to
dcMt from so doing, or they will be proceed,
ed agunft in such manner as may prove trou
blr'o ne and expenfivc to themfclves.
Ap:i! 16. *w&s2w
Tile Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Fine Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of tlx Bank of North America>
fe-veral of which ba-ve appeared in circulation
<witbin a few di.ys pajl; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be diflinguijhed by the following '
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of ihe
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of tlie Paper is thi/cker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
Tiie O. in the word Company is smaller
than the M« and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of «Se <
to touch the top of the M would extend <> *-
fiderably above the range of the whole word-
In the word the letters are narrow
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
The i and fin the word promise are not
parallel, the pipelining much more forward
than the r.
Blw&siw
The engraving is badly cxecured,the (bokes
of alJthe Letters are stronger and the devi t
in themargin particularly is much coar (fraud
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
el the counterfeits bear date in T791 —Where-
as the Bank was not in operation tijl Decern
bcr, and no five dollar bills were jiTued in
jhat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
.They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of" tl.e counterfeit Five Dojlai Notes
above defer ibed ; the en raving is pcitc; exe»
ucted, and they approach rearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, are in number rh.r
teen in the genuine b lis, and but tw< »ve in
the counterfeits.
Til e word Company is much l;k*.* the fame
word in the Five Dollar B'Ms as defer ibed a
bove, the beiug less than the m, and cthe»s
iolhr* ing.
There is no flroke to the t in the word Karfh
whereas in the genuine bilis the stroke is well
defined.
The letters cnt in the word Twenlx, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
toe line, l>ut are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and he_y go
ing belo*v tljem.
The signature J Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamb-black, and
oil, and differs from oiher inks ofed !n
printing the bills and tlie caihier's (ignature.
It is luppoCed the fe forgeries were contmiued
in some of the Southern States, as ail the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come from
thence, and two persons have been appiehend
ed in Virginia,on suspicion of being the author
of* them.
The reward o[ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
wilj be paid toanv Pbrfon or Persons who shall
discover and prosecute to convi&ion the feveial
offenders of the following descriptions or any
ot iheni, viz.
The person or prrfons, who mamifa&t>*ed
the paper on which the BitU are ' -
The pcrfoit or peifons, who engrWcdrrhe
plates. '
1 lie printer or primers, «f the bills.
Evci v person wnojias afled as a pr>ne'p»l ia
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing : he said bills.
Philadelphia, March 28 1794
7 22 > 1794.
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the UniiedStates have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS, and the alphabetical mark is the let
ter B.
"They msy be diftinguiftied from the genu
ine by the following MARKS :
The paper of the counterfeits is of a more
tend r texture and gloffey fur face than the
genuine, and there is no water mark in them.
The letter C. in the word Ofhier, in the
true bills is marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
stroke, evidently in an unfinifhed state. The
letter d in the wed demand, is badly formed
and the who.'e word if! done, and there is-no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
m&rth6w
i he marginal device, is much darker in
the falfe, than in the genuine bills owing to
the fiiade strokes being coarser, much nearer
together, and consequently much more nu
merous. This ditference ftrikesthe eye at firft
view,
The fame reward of ONE THOUSANb
DOLLARS, will be paid for
prosecuting to conyiftion the several abooe
described Offenders in lefpeft to tbis, as to
the Jaft defcribetf bills.*
THOMAS WILLING, Pie(i4ent
of the B*nk United Sulci.
JOHN NIXON,' Prefateot of the
• Bank ol Noith America* >
By order of the Commiaeel of the Rcf
peftive Boards.
tuth&s £\v
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible fituat ion,—alio a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
America•
TO BE SOLD,
ri>&tl>tf