oiistfft of dit
EVE
[X T o. 45 of Vol. V.]
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. RICE, No. yo, Market-street,
alio, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Market-fteeet,
(Price, lounJ, 6f5' 2 )
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story
TO WHICH IS AT>DEDy
The Indian Cottage.
From the French of AT, de St. Pjkrrf..
44 THh above Stori.s have bc< 11 lately pub
lifhcd, the works of a very different
nature, by M. de St. Pierre, who nfided in the
countiy which it de.fciibes, and was well ac
quainted with the p-incipal fzQs. Its orna
ments are the Lanrifcape— the Climate—and
ihc natural history of the Torrid Zone, obser
ved Willi the eye of 'falle, and delineated with
the eye -of Philosophical knowledge. It /is a
Pa floral, of which the fable and the machine
ry may be fa id to be equally leal. To th'efe ate
added, the purr vein of Moral Inftm&ioti, and
theSrblime Ideas of M. deSt. Pierre."
F< »>. 1
War Department.
January 3 qlb 1794-
INFORMATION is heifi:<y given to all the
military invalids of th- United Sia'es.thar the
furrts to wh'rh they atcc-ni'Jed for fix mofrths
of theii annual petition, from the lourih c«y of
September *793- a,K * which will brcnuic due
on the sth.Hiy ol March 1794, will be paid on
the said tfa\- by th' - Cotnmiflioncrs of (he Loins
within the (Lies refpc&ivcly, underllie lilual re-
gulations.
Applications of executors and admirtiflratois
rnuft be accompaimd with legal evidence of
their refpcfctive offices, and alio of the time the
invalid* died, whose pension thev may claim.
By conripano '>t the Prefid ni
of the Uo»'ed Sta»r<,
H. KNOX,
Sect elary oj IVsr.
(J"T* The printers in <fie lelpcfctivc Hates aie
irqnrfh d'o pnblifn the alwe in their newfpa
pr»s lor the fuacc ot two months.
1 nij.i' v
ADVERTISEMENT.
Vugin\a, Morlhumbei land County, Dec. 28. 1793-
FOR SALE,
A Valuable Tract of LAND,
in this county, containing #t><»u< eight
hundred acres, one fourth of which is low
grounds, of' excellent quality; the othc three
four: hs is high land, well covcrcd with oak,
hickory 2Tid chefnut.
The fuuatimi is pleasant and heahhy, on Yco
comico i iver, about three miles from the Poto
mack There is on it a two ftoty trick dwcl
hng-houfe, with four rooms and a on
each fioor, exchifive of clolets ; a goen kuchcn,
and other qecefTary out-hnuf s It has orchards
of apple and p' ach trees, aijd is well watereri
by many dclighilul springs. The terms may be
known on application to the Honorable JOHN
JJEATH, in Philadelphia, or to the f'jblcriber,
living on the premises.
TOHVCOF
Tan. 10. dtf*
NO R R I S-C OU R T,
Back of the New Libraty, between Chefuut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that lie continues
carrying on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likcwifc, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or wiudow-fhutters, dont in the in oft
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the com.try will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
Excellent CLARET,
In hogf'cads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipca, hogsheads and quauer casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Froni-iirce
Jan. 2. 1794.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York
TH E Subscriber intending to confiup himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE &SALEo?
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b'gl leave to of
f r his fervicesto his friends and others, in the
line o{ a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor hun with their hufmefs, may drpend
upon having it tranfafted wiih the ir.molt fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphra, Bnfton, or any
other part of the Untied State*, wiil be <tri£t!y
attended 10. LEONARD UI.I»£CKER.
NING ADVE
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Cojfee-Houfe of this
City :—
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
tb«r Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HUTI L in Shippeh-St rtet, be
tween Third and Fourth-Si reels, at the House
formerly occupied hy Mr. Timmons, whiclj
hns lately been greatly. improved, and is now
v ery commodious ; where he ha« lurnifhed him
t If with the bell of LIQUORS, and will fur
niftj a TABLE for Par; its, with the bdl provi
ftons the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
Ihortcft notice. From his long experience in
this line of bufmefs, he flatters himfelf be lhall
be able to give fatisfa&ion to all who may plcafe
to lavor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29, 1 794.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegantHoufe,
and Lot of Ground,
IN ait eligible fityation,—alio a Country Seat
wiihin 6 ijiilesof the City, with 9 acres of
land, of 42 acres of* land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size or convenience.
For terms «*pply to the printer-
Januaty 23-
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths & jfcwellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
-/in elegant Assortment of
SILVER Isf PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY & sim CUTLERY,
Which they will difpole of on the most rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
feU, and every thing i-fi the gold and iilver
way, done as nfual,
De c ember 24.
d-2m
Insurance Company.
Philadelphia, January 6, : 794.
NOTICf. is hereby given to the members
of the Infiirance Company of North-
America, that the Directors have declared a
dividend (for the lafl fix month";) of .six PER
cent, on the amount M the fir It and fecoud
instalments ; and of one per cent per month
on the funis paid in anticipation of the third
instalment, calculating from the firft day of
the month following that, in which those pay
ments were made. The dividend will be paid'
to the Stockholders, or. their repi'eferitafives,
at the company's office, x No. Front
ftrect, at any tijhe after the 13th instant.
By order of the Dite&ors,
EBfcXEZEII HAZARD, Secretary.
J an - 9- v&f.mi
This day is pulTjijed-,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-strset,
( Price a quarter dollar)
A short account of ALGIERS,*
Containing a defeription of tlie climate of that
country —of the manners and cuftomi of the in
habitants, and of their fcveral wars against Spain,
France, England, Holland, Venice, and other
powers of Europe, from the usurpation of Bar
barofla and the invasion of the Emperor Charles
V. to the present time; with a eoncife view of
the origin of the rupture between ALGIERS
and the UNITED STATES.
.! an 9-
The Young LADIES'
Drawing Academy,
Under the Direction of
S. F O L WEL L,
ma, in a few days, be rcfumcd.
HE feels a gratitude to those parents
and guardians of the young ladies,
who have entrusted to him their tuition—
and as most of them are to return, he will
have an opportunity, by his endeavors for
their further improvement, to acquit him
felf of a debt, which he esteems it an honor
to have incurred.
One or two large Rooms,
In a central fittiation, suitable to accom
modate his pupils, are wanted. Apply to
him, at No. 2, Lxtitia Court—where he
will be thankful to receive commands for
Miniature Painting or Hair Work, and all
kind of Drawing on Ivory, Sattin or
Paper.
January 13, 1794
AND
Monday, Feb
m&tli— tf
mw&rftf
dnv
ruary 3, 1 794
From the Eagle.
Jtlr. Dunh.im,
By inferring the following scrap you will
oblige a friend and coriftant reader.
ADVICE to the LADIES,
BY PETER PINDAR
A HAPPY knowledge ill :i hi orJml-
ding,
Will more delight your friends, than all
your (hidying
One cut from <ven'Jcn to the heart can
speak
Stronger than ten quotations from the
Greek ;
One fat fir loin pofTefiTcs more sublime,
Than all the airy castles built by rhimt;
One nipperkin of fungo, with a toajl.
Beats all the streams, the muse's fount
can bcaft:
Yes ! in one pint of porter, 10, my belly
can
Find ulijfes not in all the floods of Hcl-
Ikon !
LONDON, October r 4
By letters from Paris, of the jtli in(t.
we have the following important intcili-,
gence
" The Emprunt force is finally fettled.
The bankers have made conditions hv
which the confifcatioh of foreign property
in their hands, and in the public .'inds, is
not to take place. The terms of the a
greement are hiofl. ad vantageous to the Ex-,
ecutive Government. They are to give
an immediate sum of 12 per cent, on their
capitals, and they are not to be included
in the general sweep of specie. By this
sweep, which is the boldelt ast of robbery
that ever was attempted, the Executive
Government will get into their hands as a
fund for the war, and as a basis for an in
creased paper circulation, between Fifteen
and Twenty Millions Sterling in hard cajh
—such a sum as all the Combined Powers
of Europe, with England at their head,
cannot procure ; and this sum they will
obtain in the course of a month from this
date.
" The cabals carrying on in Paris are
very material. The Cordeliers are rifmg
every day into importance. They are ftvi
ving to demolish Danton and to form a
party, of which the poor Idiot, Chabot,
is to be the head, ljanton is not idle in
the mean time, and my own opinion is, he
will beat the Cordeliers. If he does, with
the enormous sum which the forced loan
will put into his hands, he will make France
invulnerable from without, and you may
be assured that there is no chance of doing
any thing by internal commotion. The
Royalifls in La VeDdee cannot by any
temptation be brought to quit their own
department, and they have fttffered so
much, that though the flame of civil war
may yet rage foi a while in that quarter,
it will not break out gensrally in the other
provinces.
" You fee that Danton dextrouflv con
verts every tiling to his purpose. Your
negociations and fedu&ions pave the way
for confifcations. He seizes on the for
tunes not only of the men you corrupt,
but of whomfocver he chufes to connect
with them ; and your ill-advised leisure
of Toulon has planted the new party,
notwithstanding all the violences thev have
committed, in the hearts of the people.
To that meEfurc you are indebted for the
forced loan, which otherwise they would
not have dared to attempt. To that too
you owe the overthrow of the BrifTot Fac
tions in the departments, for until that e
vent, they durst not take ftrcng meafurqs
against the Girondists. You have con
ducted it as weakly too as it was conceiv
ed We are told here that you are to fend
Cazales to Toulon with a commiCion.
Cazales, who in the constituent aflcmblv,
was the mo(t vehement enemy to the
llitution ! It is a farce and a mockery. It
will convince all the people of France that
you mean to break your faith pledged to
the Municipality of Toulon. Had you
RT I S
[Whole No. 505. j
made y*mr virtuous a)lv give lip M. de la
Fayette, whom he so ignomini'oufly keeps
in fetters, and sent h. : m to Toulon, you
would indeed have conciliated all the
f.iends of the coilfiittltion of 1789, and
given a pledge for your fuicerity. As a
fri-i-d to lhat constitution, I fee no hope
oi ;ts reiteration ; but I fee the day fail
approaching, when you lmift (link away
from the attempt, and leave the Republi
cans to thediforders which giddy fortune,
joined to their natural bent to mifchief
will engender, and which but for bundling
interfeiencc would have ruined them."
In committee of the c
Mr. Moore next arose, and exprefied liim
fclf, as follows :
If an apology is necessary from any
Member of this Hcuic, it is from me : I
am sure none have kfs knqv.kGfc of com-
My JMl'iC!].
to auivvcr *on>t u\ ihc ui
ir.erce
my colleague. He has let out with list
ing, th.-.t every nation hcs a right to make
luch regulations, as will promote their own
iiiterell. It is true, but does it follow,
that we are to adopt such only, as will
suit us, were we wholly uiiconnefted with
Great-Britain! It their regulations ope
rate against us, lhall we not Cowltersct
them ! And lhall we continue to fuf.'er the
injury, under the idea, that as a ration,
they have a right to pursue their interest ?
He has Hated an obfervatioii, made by
a gentleman from Virginia, that the credit
obtained in Great-Britain, might
our councils. This, hi fays, is supposing
they will have less integrity than ourselves.
Sir, our importing meichant, obtaining a
credit, his lelling on credit to the mer
chants in the country, they retailing to
the citizens on credit, may form such a
connection of dependency, as may be in
jurious. Whatever may be th« natural
integrity of men, they are imperceptibly
led to favortheir own interest. Under such
circumftanccs, I f.,ould not willingly trad
myfelf; lam not dilpofed to trust others :
But the argument was only intended to
(hew, tliEt the crcdit our merchants ob
tained in Britain, was not to our advan-
tage.
He has drawn comparlfons between
the French and liritifli, and otir coilftmi
tions : It is enough for us, that the
French coniiitution, has Libmy for its
basis. From Inch a source, we have a
right to expect jutticc and reciprocity, in
our commerce
They have already manifefted a dtfpofi
tion to tntjr into regulations, founded on
thole principles. T!.e rca foiling on this
queition, I do not well understand ? They
no doubt have their force. I am c'nii
ged, in making tip my mind, to take murt
familiar reasonings, for my {juide ; not
understanding the cemprthenflve view,
gentlemen have taken of the iubjatr. I
do not think that the companion drawn
between our, and the French conftiti tion,
or the comparison drawn between the re
iirittions and advantages, between Franre
and Britain, will warrant any conclufio i,
for or : the propofitiun. If we hve
made a commercial t.entv with France,
that is un'avorahle and oj e aics to oir
difadvar.tage. it is no reaiou. It lav: »
under no obligation to Hil.riit to r p
tions adopted bv :>.ny utii.r nation ; vhi. !i
are injurious. Having made cmnr.itT
cial treaty with Frauce, wc are bound to
observe it.
If the reafonfng, founded on IVI'-ii'.'j
•granting us equal ptivilrr 3 Ki ,! ad ,n;a
ges with France, Ihouiii piev; u ; . sfkiie
more of Britain, it would pro\ ■ t( o
much ; it would prove, tfcat vc d
nev; ; demaad aa jdvacijgeous or
E
R.
CONGRESS
I I "life of Rrprtfeniauvcs.
January 20.
>le cn Mr. Mai'f.n'i
rtfulutions.
cI.'I.CI in 1 tJ::ii/j is,aMt itraly of ccimnnrcf ; having or.ee
made an unfavorable our. That making
an unfortunate treaty, gives a clqim to all
oilier nations,
I IJkve formed my opinion on tills pre- j
sent not by comparing the .id- j
vantages and disadvantages of our trade, |
as tliey are regulated by diflert nt nations;
but by enquiring wbat is the (late of our
cummerce with particular nations. And
whether, from our commercial relation,
v. j have not a right to expect more favour
able regulations' Whether we have not a
right to expect the removal of rettricHons
to which we are fubjeft, and to obtain ad
vantages,we do not now receiver We
hive been informed that Britain is depen
di.nt on us for many of the neceflaiies of
life; they are dependant on us for those
raw materials, by which numbers of their
citizens receive employment; and that
they cannot be obtained from any other
quarter. If this is a true Hate of the
c.le, and it has not been controverted ;
and the truth of it I think, is evident,
from a view of exports to that country.
Have wc not a right to expect, a right
to claim "a removal of those unfavorable
rjftri&ionj ? If this is a true Hate of our
commerce, would not Britain, were all the
regulation# on the footing of reciprocity,
have the advantage ? Their trade with us,
ij of neceCitjr: Theirs to us may be, and
can be dispensed with. Numbe.s of them
depend on m, for their very fubliftence.
Independent of their manufactures, we
can go on, and I believe, prosper. I do
not believe, that agriculture or manufac
tures, would futtain even a check: It would
no doubt, be fomc degree of inconvenicn
ev, to the mercantile iatereft, And I can
not help oblerving, that gentlemen have
been loud on the disadvantages of the mer
chants, from the adoption of the principle
now under dlfcufTion. I must regard the
merchant only as an intermediate negocia
tor, between the planter and manufacturer,
and the foreign merchant. Ido not con
ceive the loss is fuitained by the merchant.
It is fuitain.d by every citizen, in pro
portion to his ccnfumpticn. If the in
terest of agriculture is promoted, the mer
cantile interest must participate. I consi
der the agricultural intereil, as the source ;
and cannot agree, that the mercantile
(hould either be the llril, or only object
of our attention. And suppose a tempo
rary inconvenience to arifc from the adop
tion of the i dilutions, I think they ought
to be adopted when intended ; and I think
it is evident to any pevfoH, who will con
template the degree, in which Great-Bri
tain is dependant on tiie United States,
for her exports ; that they will be pro
ductive of lifting advantages. Is there a
probability of our being relieved, other
wise than by our own exertions ? Or can
gentlemen fix the boundary beyond which
thev will not go, in their reilriitions,
should we continue to acquiesce ? I confefs,
I expect nothing fhoit of the entire pro
fits of all our labor, will fatisfy them. If
we are to judge of the future by the past,
and I do not think we have a right to
suppose a change in her motives or prin
ciples, we are to expect regulations, which
will throw into the pockets of her citizens,
all the profits of the labor of the United
States.
Gentlemen confefs her Navigation Ast
operates against us; bijt it is said she
treats lis, as (he does all other nations:
which to hie, I confefs, is no reason we
ftioiild fufler injustice; Yet not contented
with the reftriftions on our trade, we have
it in proof, (he had a principal and unso
licited agency in the late truce : Where
by our veflels are fubjefted to depreda
tions, and to being captured. I will not
fay what was their principal motive ; but
it is another means of throwing into their
hands, an additional portion of our carry
ing trader They condemn as prize, goods
Carrying to the ports of France j our vcf
fels are feizedj fearehed and detained un
neceflarily : This conduct has con drained
the French) in their own defence, to adopt
similar regulations : All of which is con
fefleclv nvjainil the law of nations: Their
forcing or enticing our seamen on board
their veffcls—zll is calculated to increase
their flipping* hv excluding ours: And
this done, whillt we were leaving trade to
regulate itfelf) whilst we were tamely
fv.bmitting to their reftriftions.
Under thi»e circumftancej, we have no
re? on to hope for a favorable change ; I
t'uiiik the mod distant hope cannot be en
tertained. No alternative remains, but an
entire acquicfcence, or availing ourselves
of the peculiarly favorable circumstances
of our commercial relation, to enforce jus
tice. This may be deemed unjust, or un
equal, airtongft nations ; 1 am sure it .. ould
not, aino'ngft individuals, lie, who in
merchandizing, is exchanging a nereilary
of lift to the person who needs, and could
not be fuppli-d from any other quarter,
for property of inferior demand, would not
submit to have the terms of exchange,
dittated to him. He would avail himfelf
of circumilances, to enforce justice, or re
fufe the exchange. Why we (hould not
as a nation, aflume a similar conduct, I
know not.
Counter regulations are apprehended.
I with he had pointed out what regulati
ons they can adopt, which will not operate
more againlt them, than us : I believe it
cannot be done. War is also apprehend
ed ; it has not before been suggested : I
believe it is not fericufly apprehended. As
an independent nation, can our doing what
Great-Britain has done before us ; can
our doing what we have a right to do, as
an independent nation give offence ? If
this (hould be made the cause of war, we
may reft afiured, it was pre-determined ;
and that nothing we could do, would pre
vent it. 1 believe the only way to cause a
war, is by tame submission, and to prevent
it, is to use our rights, uninfluenced by a
fear, either of counter regulations, or war.
(Delate to be continued.)
Cor.grcfs of tba United States.
IN SENATE,
Monday, January 27,
The Senate rcfumed the second reading
of the bill fc.it from the House of Reprc
fentatives for concurrence, entitled " An
ast for completing and better supporting
the military establishment of the United
States," and
Ordered, That it be referred to Mr.
Ellfv.-crth, Mr. Livermore, Mr. Strong,
Mr. Izard and Mr. Langdon, to consider
and report thereon to the Senate.
Afv.- the consideration of the execu
tive business,
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
Tuesday, January 28.
The memorial of Joseph Bloomfield,
President of the Convention of Delegates
from the Abolition Societies within the
United States, in behalf of said Conventi
on was presented and read, praying Con
gress to pass a law prohibiting the traffic
carried on bv citizeusof the United States
for the supply of (laves to foreign nations,
and preventing foreigners from fitting out
vefieis for the (lave trade in the ports of
the United States.
The Vice-President laid before the Se
nate a letter from the Secretaay of State,
enclosing a translation of the French ast
of navigation.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Wednesday, January 29.
Mr. Ellfworth from the committee ap
pointed to consider the bill, font from the
House of Reprefentativesfor concurrence,
entitled, " An ast for completing and bet
ter supporting the Military Ellablilhment
of the United States," reported amend
ments, which were agreed to.
Ordered, That the further considerati
on of this bill be postponed.
After conlideration of the executive bu
siness—
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Thursday, January 30.
The following written meflage was re
ceived from the President of the United
States by Mr. Dandridge his Secretary.
United States, January 30.
Gentlemen of the Senate and of
the House of Representatives,
Communications have been made to
Congress during the present session with
the intention ofaffording a full view of the
posture of affairs on the fouth-weftem fron
tiers. By the information which has late
ly been laid before Congress it appeared
that the difficulties with the Creeks had
been amicably and happily terminated.
But it will be perceived with regret by the
papers herewith transmitted, that the
tranquility has unfortunately been of short
duration, owing to the murder of several
friendly Indians, by some lawleft white
men.
The condition of things in that quarter
requires the serious and immediate confe
deration of Congress; and the adoption
of such wife and vigorous laws, as will be
competent to the preservation of the na
tional charafker and of the peace, made
under the authority of the United Stite*
with thefc ft;vera) Indian tribes—Experi
ence demonstrates that the existing legal
provilious are entirely inadequate to those
great objects,
G. WASHINGTON.
The meflage and papers referred to
were read.
Ordered, That thev lie for confidera
:ion.
Thc Senate resumed the second reading
of the bill, sent from the House of Re
prelentativcs for concurrence, entitled,
" An ast for completing and better sup
porting th? military eftablilhment of the
United States," and after debate,
Ordered, That the coniideration there
of be postponed.
After consideration of the executive bu-
finefs,
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
Foreign Intelligence.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
October 29.
A deputation of the Jacobins were ad
mitted to the bar.
Xavier Audouin, Afliftant Secretary of
War, spoke as follows: " When you
formed the Revolutionary Tribunal, the
people thought that the Tribunal, point
ing out with one hand the crime, would
strike it with the other; but forms paral
ize the efforts of the mod indefatigable
Judges; all France accuse the conspira
tors, and demand their death, but the law
cannot reach them. When we fee a dead
body, have we occasion to be alked, with
how many blows it was struck before its
death. Our cities destroyed, our citizens
butchered, famine, that hideous fpeftre,
staring every where, the belt Republicans
opprefTed, the greatelt villains protected,
France opposed to France—such are the
crimes of the conspirators do we wait
till they swim in the blood of our brothers,
before we piinifh them ; Representatives,
you have at present the maximum of opi
nion ; you owe a generous movement to
the wishes of the people, who have been
too long betrayed,; you owe it to the
tears of the fathers and families who la
ment their relations slain ; you owe it to
the necessity of avenging so many crimes.
We demand firft, that you exempt the Re
volutionary Tribunal ofthofe forms which
enchain the conscience of the judges, and
ftifle conviction ; 2dly, That the juries
may declare to the judges, that there is no
occasion for debates, when their opinion is
once formed.
Ofielin—" The firft part of the Petition
ought to be sent to the Committee of Le
gislation ; but the second seems so evi
dent, that it is unneceflary to refer it to
any other committee. I move that the
latter be instantly decreed.
" You have a great conspiracy to judge;
crimes against the State, which can nei
ther be viewed nor punished in the ordi
nary manner ; this is so certain, that you
have created a Tribunal for that purpose ;
make laws then, which may facilitate its
operations. You may in future get rid of
forms: why then debate about them to no
purpose ?
Roberfpiere made the following amend
ment to the motion: " If any Trial be
fore the Revolutionary Tribunal continues
for more than three days, the President
(hall open the following fitting, by a (king
the jury if they are fatisfied ! if they fay
No, the examinations (hall continue; but
if they reply in the affirmative, the evi
dence (hall be closed, judgment given, and
none be allowed to object to the decision
of the jury." The proposition, thus
amended, was decreed, and sent immedi
ately to the Revolutionary Tribunal.
The President of the Revolutionary
Tribunal represented by letter, the diffi
culty of the trial against the deputies,
conspirators. In five days, nine witnefies
had only been heard. The loquacity of
the gu3ty wafted much time—why have
recourse to evidence, when the nation
was attacked ? If eighty were to be heard,
there was equal reason for hearing four
hundred; the proofs were in the events
which had followed.
This letter was joined to the petition,
and sent to the committees of legidation
and public welfare, to report upon it to
morrow.
Billaud Varennes remarked, that in the
drawing up the Resolution, there had been
infertedthe Extraordinary Tribunal; —in
the tiir.s the conspirators lived among u?
said he, and commanded majorities, the/
called it the Extraordinary Tribunal, but
you ought to restore its true name, and
real institution, and enable it to judge in
a revolutionary manner.
Salluft said, that conspirators could not
be judged with too much celerity. He
demanded that it fliould henceforth be cal
led the Revolutionary Tribunal.—(De
creed. )
October 30.
Thtprocuratorof of Rhtiir.s,
sent books and parchments which where
used at the consecration of the Kings of
France ; he joined to them the oath taken
by Louis Capet at that ceremony.
Romme demanded that they (hould be
destroyed.
" I fee not (replied Burden of Gife,)
why we Ihould preserve the ornaments used
at the consecration of Kings, when we
have destroyed the seal of the (late, and e
very tiling which belonged to royalty."
He demanded that they (hould all be burnt.
—Decreed
Some citizens of Corbeil brought a gilt
silver (hrine, which inclosed an old Saint,
who had long been supposed to work mi
racles, said they, but we find that the on
ly good quality he had, was the (hrine,
which we have brought to be converted
into Republican coin.—Honorable men-
tion,
In conformity to the report of the com
mittee of general fafety, the Convention
decreed
1. That women (hall no longer be al
lowed to aflemble iu popular societies.
2. That all the fittings of the popular
focicties of men (hall be public.
The CommifTioners wrote from Lyons
((25th October,) tint 600 workmen were
employed in raising the fortifications of
that rebellious city. A colony of Repub
licans will follow d'Herboit to this city,
in order to regenerate the public spirit,
which is yet in a revolutionary ltupor.
October 3l
A deputation of the council general ot
the commons of Paris came to demand,
that a revolutionary tribunal do accompa
ny each detachment of the revolutionary
army.
A deputation of the popular societies
came to demand, that every person refi
ircnt in the country, and having a town
house, rtiall return to town in the course
of one month : —they stated, that those
persons (laid in the country on purpose to
abuse the revolution, and the law that fix
es the maximum of provifions.—Referred
to a committee of legifi~ion.
A petition of the fame deputation made
a long speech, by which he demanded that
the nfual mode of addrefiing one single
person by the polite word You, ift the plu
ral number, be converted into Thou, which
is of the lingular number, for the fake of
abolilhing all proud dillin&ions among tire
French Republicans.
Bazire demanded that this requeil be
infta-stly decreed ; but on the motion of
Philippeaux, the convention thought it
fufficient to give it insertion in their Bul
letin.
On motion of Romme, the convention
decreed :
1. That the words of Town, Burgh,
or Village, (hall forthwith be fupprefled.
and that of Commonalty substituted in
their place.
2. That the inscription to be put up
111 front of the Tennis-Court of Verfaillcs
(hall be the following : " The Common
alty of Versailles has well deferred of the
country."
UNITED STATES.
NEW-YORK, Jan. 31.
The following is a fliort retrofpeft of
the situation of France :
That though there existed a great diver
sity of opinion refpe&ing the form of go
vernment finally to be adopted in France :
yet they feerned unanimous in the refol*>
tion of fore in the Belligerent Powers to
acknowledge their right of choosing what
form of government, and what laws they
please, and of compelling their enemies
to sue for peace—to effefi this object they
have 700,000 regulars, partly in the field
and partly in garrison ; that notwitlutar.d
ing this force, they have called out the
firft class of their citizens, who have al
ready amounted to 420,000 men ; these
they aie training in their fortified towns,
that they may be ready by next spring to
take the place of their legulars, who are
then to aCt on the offeniive, by invading
the territories of their enemies—that next
spring the 2d class is to be organized, inin order so be ready to succeed the firft
class, who when properly disciplined, are
to march to the afliftance of the regulars ;
thus every class is to be called out, as
their fervicct become necefiarv, till not a
man is left in France, or they make their
enemies sue for peace. There are fifty
fail of fir ft-rate fliips of the line building
and equipping at Brest, to be ready by A
pril next, (it is believed for a descent on
England) thev have also embargoed all
the merchant vessels in the different ports,
to ast as transports ; and they have cer
tainly a revolutionary party forming in
England, to favour a descent, should the
expedition now forming be feut there.—
That the affairs of France are so far des
perate, that all their former rcfources are
exhausted ; that the mode in which they
procure the neceffhries for carrying on the
war is by fixing the price of the articles
(fuchas iron, &c.)ata certain rate, and
then taking the property of any individu
al to buy them up with ; that their de
crees are executed by force. Such is the
mode they have from neceflity adopted,
and all views of commerce are abandoned
till the close of the war.
The lad Gazette printed at Leyden,
informs that the celebrated M. Danton,
who is supposed to have long governed
Ban ere, the Monntain, and the whole
party opposed to that of the late BrilTot
ine faction, has formally requested leave to
resign his feat in the National Convention
pleading his great infirmities.
The Socifte Popu!aire of St. Malo, has
demanded of the National Convention,
that they request the United States of
America, to pay the debt due by them
to France, in VefTels of War to aid them
in the cause of Liberty.
Dubois Crance and Gautier, two of the
Commiflioners sent to the reduction of
Lyons have arrived at Paris under arrest.
The Emperor of Germany haj gone
himfelf into Hungary to fix on the sum
necefTary to be levied, and the number of
troops to be raised for the next campaign.
The. Grand Seigaor is calling out his
troops on the borders of Turkey, being
jealous of the large armaments which the
Empress of Ruflia is preparing.
A war between Ruflia and the Porte,
is hourly expected.
Extract of a letter from London, Novem-
ber 12
" The Debating Society, late of Coach
maker's Hall, has been removed about a
ir.onth, and hitherto have met with no in
terruption, although the Advocates for
Freedom have spoken pretty boldly. The
afflicting news of the dreadful calamity
now raging in your neighbouring city, has
been received—the (hip which, it is said,
carried it to the Well-Indies, is now lying
in the Thames, and has occafioncd no little
alarm amongst even the alarmifls them
selves—they fay the Government (hould
order it to be burnt.
" As to public news, up to the period
of my writing, you will no doubt fee it in
the English papers, and forming your
judgment upon, the vvhele, I think you will
not fee much cause for regret. My pre
sent opinion and prophecy is, that aotwith
(landing much treachery and many difaftcre,
this campaign will, on the whole, termi
nate in favor of the French Republic: but
I (hould not wonder if the war, notwith
standing, (hould be of fcveral years conti
nuance, as the Anjlocracy of Europe will
certainly protract it while they can pro
cure men and money.
" We have in the paper* of to-day,
Citizen Genet's letter to President Wa(h
ington, and the President's Secretary's
Jiarehed Anfrner. Will it not be a reproach
able timidity, as well as narrow policy in
the American States to fuffer any power
to deprive the French people of the IVeJI-
India JJlands ? By our Government ef
forts, I understand, arc to be made for
that purpose—it was certainly n great dis
appointment to the Court cf St. James's
that they did not succeed in their usual
mode of proceeding (viz. corruption)
to obtain possession of those valuable
I (lands.
" How this would have flattered the
vanity and gratified the avarice of JOHN
CALF, (for he is no longer worthy of
being called a Bull) and what dalhingthe
minister would have exhibited in the House
of Commons, fee what ivonilcrt J have per
formed ! To fay all in one word, I believe
every thinking man feels himfelf heartily
tired of a war which began in injustice,
and can only yield a hat veil of mikry and
difgiacc."
CHARLESTON, Dec. 21.
Letter from Citizen M. A. B. Mangoa
iit,to his Excellcucy General Moultrie,
Governor of the State cf South-Caro
lina.
Charl'Jlon, December IJ/A I 7QJ.
the id year of the French Re-
public
Sir,
I REQUEST from your Excellency,
to lay before the Honorable Legislature
of South Carolina, the demand I have
the lionor to make for the payment of the
sums of money due to my Republic, by
the State. Thii is a prefling matter. I
have translated my memorial into English,
in order to lose no time, and to serve the
zeal of a body composed of members,
none of whom are ignorant of the value
of the French Liberty to the United
States, and who are fully convinced of
its future triumph ; efpecia'ly if the tijie
friends of France enable her to develope
all her refourCes.
Sure of your Excellency's attachment
to the French cause, by your love of your
conntry. I rejoice that the claim of a
great nation is to be presented by you, as
it is in the power of no.oneto support and
enforce it better than your Excellency.
I have the honor, &c.
(Signed)
M. A. B. MANGOURIT.
MEMORIAL.
THE French Republic, to oppose the
iniquitous crusade of tyrants, having
but the profound fcntimer.t of the sacred
and eternal Rights of Man ; the great
ne4 of her caufc, and the energy of her
warriors ; Cngle, and prefTed on all fides,
but ready to I'ally out wherever the hydra
of defpotiftn fnews its head ; the French
Republic, in a contest as honorable to
herfelf, as ufeful hereafter to nations,
mitft afFemble around her all her ftre'ngth
and employ all her resources.
In this position, which is so much the
more extraordinary, as it is unexampled
in the annals of history j so much the
more sublime, as twenty-four millions of
men must fall or regenerate other nations !
Whom will the French apply to with more
confidence, than to this State; which,
through privations, defeats and victories,
(hared with the French, then enslaved,
but deftiocd to set Europe it IJberty,
came to the peaceable enjoyment of a
happy independence.
Would it not be highly injurious to
doubt, but that the State of South-Caro
lina will readily come to the aid of a na
tion who assisted her wealth and force, to
lay the foundation of a Republic, when
this very nation is contending for the bles
sings of a similar government ? The citi
zens of South-Carolina are too well known
for their generosity and gratitude ; the
faered flame of Liberty is too purely pre
served in their hearts, to harbor the least
fear of an ungenerous refufal.
The example furniftied by the Federal
Government to all the States of the Uni
on, (hall finely be followed by Carolina.
In this hope, the Consul of the French
Republic has the honor to demand of the
Honorable Legislature, the reimburse
ment of the sums of money due to his
Republic ; which sums, the preceding Le
gislature acknowledged, and towards the
discharge of which they appropriated a
part of the taxes.
France, when at peace, heartily agreed
to the delays demanded by the State of
South-Carolina ; though distressed in her
finances, {he acquicfced to the arrange
ments agreed upon to come to a fettle
mcnt. But now compelled by the most
powerful motives, to have recourse to the
loyalty of her faithful friends, she hopes
that the Legislative Body will have some
regard for her past indulgence, and ac
eomplifh a discharge, whose value will
mostly be redoubled by the urgencies of
circumstances.
The Consul of the French Republic
has the honor to request of the Honora
ble Legislature, to take the demand into
their most serious confide ration.
(Signed)
M. A. B. MANCOURIT.
NEWPORT,..January 21.
Last Wednesday failed from this port
fur India, the (hip George Walhington,
Capt. Donnilon, of Providence—on her
departure (he fired a salute, which was re
turned frcm Fort Walhington.
In the above (hip went paflenger Mr.
William Hammond, merchant, of this
town.
BALTIMORE, J*n. ly
lis: rn.it from a letter of tl.e MinMer of
Maiine, to the Commander of the Na»
val Forces of the Ficnch Republic, in
Cliefapeak Bay.
LißFnrr—Paris, \th month,
2d year—Equality (f the French
Republic—One auri lr.an'jille.
CiTIZFJi,
Invite, by all the considerations cf
public, as well perfcnal interett, the mer
chants, owners of veflels, to complete
their cargoes, in articles of provisions,
particularly in Flour and Wheat.
The pi ice will be fettled with common
content, and paid to the owners ; either
French, or Neutrals, they are excepted
from the general rules eflablifhed for the
fixed price of gwx)s. They will deal iu
that respect in France, as if they were in
a foreign couiitiy.
You will make the a&ual fitun
tion of the Republic to the French, as
well as to Foreigners, of the entire de-
Oruction of all her internal enemies, and
of her advantages gained over her exteri
or foes, her liability immoveable, the
dread, and terror of furroiinding tyrants,
who have dared to attack her.
The schooner Polly, Capt. S. Scott of
this port, belonging to Mr. Waters, was
cast away three miles to the foutliward
of Cape-Henry—the Captain, veflel and
cargo entirely loll:. By information recei
ved from the Mate and Sailors, Captain
Scett supposed himfelf to be on t! Mid
dle-Ground—it being very foggy, and a
very high Sea running, Capt. Scott came
too in three fathoms water, and parted his
cables ; alter which (he soon fettled.
Captain Scott had got on Ihore fafe, but
ventered to the wreck again to save his
trunk, during which time his boat was
stove; he then fattened his trunk with a
cord, and in attempting to swim to the
shore with it, was drowned, within forty
yards of the fame. One of the Sailors
remained on the wreck all night, though
repeated attempts were made to get him off
before, being prevented by a very high
furf.
ALBANY, Jan. 23.
At a meeting of a number of gentle
men, from the counties of Tioga, Her
kemer, Montgomery and Otfego, at Coo
perttown, on the iyth of January, 1794
—on the interesting intelligence received,
of the recal of Genet ; the ousting of the
old clerk of the afl'emby of this state, and
the choice of a virtuous conncil of ap
pointment : When after an elegant sup
per, the following toalls were drank, with
a discharge of cannon, at each.
1. The Right of Suffrage.
2. George Washington.
3. John Adams.
4. Alexander Hamilton.
5. Thomas Jeflerfon.
6. Henry Knox.
7. The federal part of the house of as
sembly of this state, and the virtuous of
the senate.
8. May the new council have the dig
nity of the state, and not ele&ioneering
motives in view, in their appointments,
in the year 1794.
9. Jofiah Ogden, — Hoffman Sc James
Kent. May their firmnefs againit the de
cision of the canvassers be held in remem-
brance.
10. Fierre Van Cortlandt, El'q. May
his integrity until the year 1 792, never
be forgotten ; and his present error buri
ed in oblivion.
11. John Jay, the rightful governor
of this state—3 cheers.
12. Virtue ; may it triumph over op
preflion.
13. The commonwealth of Pennsylva
nia—may that (late immediately exchange
its secretary, for one less equivocating.
14. The nation of France. May they
have wisdom to become free.— 3 cheers.
15. Our unfortunate brethren, captives
in Algiers.
PROVIDENCE, January 23.
" Capt. James Brown, who arrived here
last week, from Surinam, informs, that
the brig Nancy, of this port, Capt. Jo
seph B. Cooke, had arrived at that place,
from Africa, with a cargo of Slaves, who
on the pafiage rose on the white people ;
and that a number of the Negroes were
killed before they were suppressed ; the
purport of this intelligence is confirmed
by a letter from Mr. Fleming, the Mate
ot the brig to his Wife, in this town, who
writes, he had ike to have been killed."
PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 3.
This morning were exhibited to the
Houfeof Reprcfentatives of the United
States, two pair of chamber bellows, ma
nufafhired in the city of New York, by
Mcfti s. Pearfal and Pell, which are Supe
rior in quality and elegance,to any hither
to imported from Europe.
The Hoiife of Reprefeotativri of tj*s
United States in committee of the whole,
this day ajrreed to the following refutati
on, being the firft in order oi those mov
ed by Mr. Madison, viz.
Resolved, as the opinion of this Com
mittee, that the interest of the United
Slates would be promoted by further rc
ftrictions and higher dutie*, in certain ca
ses, on the manufa&ures and navigation
of foreign nations, employed in the com
merce of the United States, than those
now impoled.
Affirmatives 51 —Negatives ,;6.
The second Relolution is in the follow
ing words:
Resolved, as the opinion of this commit
tee, that an additional duty ought, to be
laid on the following articles, manufactur
ed by European nations, having no com
mercial treaty with the United States.
This being read—Mr. Fitzfimons mo
ved an amendment by striking out the
words " having no Commercial treaty zl.L'6
the United States." Without having any
debate or Tote on this motion, the com
mittee rose and reported progrcfs.
The (hip Alia, Capt. Coffin, of Nan
tucket, from the Indian Ocean, and the
(hip , Capt. Alex. Coffin, of Nev-
York, from the East Indies, are taken,
and carried into Antigua, by the J3riti(h.
A number of gentlemen in Boston, and
its vicinity, have formed thtmfelves into a
society by the name of " The Maflacl.u
fetts Society for the Information and Ad
vice of Foreigners, fettling in cur ccui>
try."
EDUCATION.
Extract from Lieut. Gov. Adams's
speech to the Legislature of Maflachu-
setts.
" Another fubjeft presents itfelf to my
mind, which I think is indeed great and
important, I mean the education cf our
children and youth. Perhaps the mines
of infants may receive impreflions, gcod
or bad, at an earlierperiod than many im
agine. It has been obfervcd, that " edu
cation has a greater influence on manners,
than human laws can have." Human
laws excite fears and apprehensions, lead
crimes committed may be detested and
puni(hed : But a virtuous education is cal
culated to reach and influence the heart,
and to prevent crimes. A very judicious
writer has quoted Plato, who in (hewing
what care for the security of dates ought
to be taken of the education of youtl,
speaks of it as almost fufficient to fupplv
the place both of legislation and adminis
tration. Such an education, which leads
the youth beyond outside (hew, will im
press their minds with a profound reve
rence of the Dcitv, universal benevolence
and a warm attachment and affe&ion to
wards their country. It will excite in
tl*m a just regard to Divine Revelation,
which informs them of the original cha
racter and dignity of man ; and it will
inspire them with a sense of true honor,
which con si ft 8 in confonniug as much as
possible, their principles, habits, and man
ners to that original chara&er. It will
enlarge their powers of mind, and prompt
them impartially to search for truth in the
consideration of every fubjeA that mar
employ their thonghts ; and amonsf other
branches of knowledge, it will inltruft
them in the (kill of political architeflure
and jurifprudenee ; and qualify them to
discover any 'error, if there (hould be
such, in the forms and adminiflration of
governments, and point out the method of
correcting them. But I nted not press
this fubjefl,' being p»:fuaded, that this
leg:flature from the inclination of their
minds, as well as in regard to tlte duty en
joined by the constitution, wife cherish
" the interest of literature, the sciences,
and all their seminaries."
(£? The Subfcriptiont for tbit Paper are
rapidly tncrenjing. Upward; of Five Hun
dred are jlruck off daily.
stdvertifing favtrt from tk? friendt rtrd
patrons of the PulEcttioit, are ft&tdfuJf
foUcUeJ. .
*Peak's Museum,
HAS v rrct' v i -d jnu n> I'■*l , J
rtri'ii'g wfi'rh .if 'li«' t«»ihi ;: 1 ii*i j
icmaikabir bud c.illcd the Cu«-*»trt, - « fcif-
n» s-! •' l»; Tin- Av.'f( to,« 11 n'' iv \ >■ '!■?*
Shoc-in-'kcUianl.' o' its I'll! n;- j /
CK.uV.cti a\*l—Th> L.ong-1 Com.r< <n:\ «•,:]-
rd?ho P.Wk-bn,N'VT;>r<-rh:in:. :'i h < : y, 1,1
in u«or»>it«o'' to ih> lize of in<- l-nd. oi •n\ «>i a "
Uir'ff-iu.-red intx— Th.Si-' m-ii.*. h, oon.ii.on
l\ call- d ?nr'h«i (a'\ 's clt .k'ii—l lu' Sa
f* dlow.!iidv?r"U< Gu-U; •-.ltdcs a valiuj
ol C-a-'. s, t'jirlc So«y Ac.
( ~,i <1 , Wla'.c 11-k "Hi' it". V. I' I'rrs.
A n ''."v'" t m.ir'c .•!>-• a : U *
CIII US : 11. <• ' i' 1 "' l( -' ll » 1 ' " " ,r d u'l' !'* 1 1 ! -
in/ \ll v ~»t i<• K now! "d.;<• o 1 »<»«:• .v' •i' c
rven ol the f\ ti'-ti'. ;- of tn»n .im! »! • ••,
Hi lui'J I C rtll'.f tO JOMTI til. h 113-'. 4 ! >'MI
U»t,-T»('ju!l«-5iillsaSlr»lS.. | tid O.i I lll.lulWinl*
liu'.j^uu 4 r.i/V. m i:si \iu •
A hgn-iiiM OUMH-'* : 'in lpi-(*'-*>rn iiuvlv
v» a u sn.»ief"'ct •' N v " 1 ' T ' H u.uiou
h.'s on i. ii :-s)-.v ..;>»•■ u' 8 \'ci- l.iiu- u
v.»s it was a if..' .y , »•••> Lc "
c- ,v; "' ''" !t >" aiM'"'-n.">"
Pielrpi-a M: s. IrOrMvn,
5 :.<o! «:f d ny i!-" O ..['fi'.'i:?. its ni.-k'n^
u.cii (i <i t k ,1-."., the bi»V. on :'.n s
11, 'li uun ll' 'A.-«•<', It I" < • i: ' ( ' "' !S
icinnnir (liiea.U : iho mt; M-d
iqua: t ins via'.\r sn ;hi.s exiiciuc w.n«d. nv
nun v. it:u»ut the ulc ol iioii,jir cut :i ui i: won
t'.~ i 111.
Alio, .o »c - 1 ' zw'tj pett jt the ng£-
in > of i v< iV 1 t. l ' k i.
Pi r|< "v i)'.. H.i". <>1 ! <• v. is-'own, 3 Sn>i ,'•»
oi iiot.rv ■■pp : 11 ' d'O OrMr.< or i'^mfirs
th.r. ' y ■ •-j Jt.M-.. liu i'-.v. t -: its !tj.. t l.wl.ieh
ccc 'si ii';' I 4 convtMu. ,'s i: i r.'h tuiui;V.< d
wi'h Is.«ih!> \ : .c \ <oW net - isc
li: t /t.v-. I IO •- 111 s, til l -i t j;i< uCil' U't !i list. !e :i
---" i'.'.i/.dn aN-uk'i 'to ;.i it.! 11 ; !t<' bortoin ;!o
I.; j• ;i-1 i i ,CS lit-- <-! '"ii ;He l urnofr ol rfili iio' »
and ?fH i; v* rricv.ti o' ■* \\ ,ky WMf,
thai u! -a.tlc;. Sonic ol t Ik- {tones ate m the
laiTie
A<o.. ction o! Mtnrr.ils ?ik' o<lht Fodi's
?• :;o v ,li .'n\iv< 1"I ' < \s it h -fs
mid :n j i.jor p w hi' i' ' i"'oi iroiv, ilc
lii'i;-. :i',.i 'I o k'u Is fu; v. 11.;. • i .it e rftH.xed H tc
r< n •uu , .,"'Nni d. Ici »;m»..n*. ')Yi> nsr.nagc
fit-ii! oi of i'., Fidi'i k ; i,. ; ci«'ii , r?n
-- ••• t.■ is oit • *v. ' i*c ?d inn vriv convK ni; ir
t r\ (.. 5" ,inr. ilO I; t« or Vv '! I h«' J'.ltd
l, • i . !•.•;, •> ! 'i 1u i c> 1 ■ r:.-m , .'i <■ m nnk
i< •, • ii- ' ii -: \ < k -\ > o 1 ii : AHo i n ng
;i ■' r .-.ic.'t m.u.t.v-r, :i".* vjr-ciis u r 'S thev titc
a | • > • ihe 1 v ' thp.ti the more
. .'I'll,? R.i t lie p.ib'.ic.
A i.i\t- i» F/.k, v<{ r. vcjrs old. is iuftrtcciv
e<i. ,iv wh'cn t;.oi\l ji.ifion <ri>cs
ot ' fu* 1',.;, o -i "p-..: rs ihu h<- wjs no 1 m -
'-i v. ■th i: i! >' A 1 11 ' r: ; a j z ii' id n1 ; he ;• ait u nln r! v
*, m it > c!l notice ol (he :i;'ioi;s ;i;)cttircs adjoin-
I •' iir f\ i v oi I i'Mj. 1 Ik
War Atlas.
This Day is Ptibliflied,
( Price 'Two Dollars )
By MATHEW CARE Y,
No. 118, Market-Jireet,
A Collection of Maps,
Including the Whole of the various Seats of
the urefent War in Europe and the Well-
Indies, viz.
1 "\/T.APo ( the United Provinces of Holland,
XVjL Fi icflaud, G• onierts»en, Overyffel, Gcl
dcrs, Utrecht, and Zealand.
2. Map o 1 the French, Dutch, and Austrian
Netherlands.
3. Map of France divided into circles and
departments.
4. Map o! Spain and Portugal.
5. Map of Germany ami Switzerland,
6. Map of Italy.
7. Map of the Weft-Ind«ei.
N. B. Any of the above Maps may be had
fcparair.
Said Carey has lately pullifhed
Account of Alfti'. is—with a Map—l/ 1 o£.
Account of the Malignant Ftvcr, 4th edition—
375— Or. Naffy's Ticatife on do.— \f\o\.
Jan. 25. 4: 23W.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying.
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
thoie <»f the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
flioi reft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crai>e necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, wind for fu'kevsand chaffs, and harness
ofevory description, in the neatest and newest
faction now prevailing in the United Stares.
And as he Las a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not t'ie Haft dou'»t but he will,be able t<» give
to tho'e who pleafcTo employ him.
He has for sale, several carriages aim oft
fioiftied, such as coachces, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on flcel springs, a light phaeton for
one or two horses, and a lulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
Philark'',.hir. t Jan. 6, 1-94 m&t3m
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1 794.
is hereby give-i, that there will
IN be paid at the Bank, after the sixteenth
instant, to the Stockholders or their represen
tative*. d«»lv fifteen dollars and
fifty cents for each (hare, being the d vidend
declared for the last fix months.
By Order,
3Mr JOHN K£AN, Cashier.
Jujl pubii/hcd,
United States Register,
For the Year 1794.
CoitiiHnit'.gi
\ (' Ai!r\l) AR. \Mili the n<-cc(Tarv tables
S\. tvi.-d im the l-nnnde ot ihe pt inc i pal towns
,1 t l> Uni.cd Sta.cs; (r.mm ion, rxteu', population
;l.d th
and GOVERNMENT U.S.
Supreme Lx»,cutive,
I.FCISLATUKI,
Judiciary,
Lift t>( Couiifellort admitted t» ptaflife in
die Supreme Court.
!").» of A' ni ni f. D'
Kskitive llk.uci-.t s,
Dbiahtment of St a-t s ,
Mmiflcrs and i'onluls of the United States
in nations,
D«>. ol fofeij
United S I'tc
Department of the Treasury,
s and Clerks of (he ri-fpc&ive of
fices,
Co;.' 111! Hi < <»• I o>ns,
0:-Ti. -is -:i i'ip Cuilohu, with their refpcc
-11 ve d i ll»>ds .fsd ,ini is,
L'.'l»-"crs ul tht. v.un their idpeftive
diftiicis and furvcys»
Lift ol d.ituble articles, See.
Abigail from the revenue laws,
Statement of the public debt,
— of Light-houTcs,
of appropriations for the support
oi Government
Department of War,
Secretary's office,
Accountant's,
Monthly pay, of the army.
Mint Establishment,
Officers.
A bilr?<sl from the laws relating to coinage.
Post Office Establishment,
Office!
A'.a 'itk from the law dlablifhing the office
Lilt of post towns, with their refpe£hve
as cftablifhcd by the Polt-Maf-
tcr General.
Latitude and L#*ngitude of the prin
cipal towns irt the United States and their
vicinity
Banks.
United States,
Noah America,
State tanks with their capitals.
Literary Institutions.
American Philosophical Society, See.
American Acadcmy ol Arts and Sciences.
National Manufactory at Paierfon,
N. J
Sessions ok the Courts of the United
St ai cs.
Western Territory
State Governments.
Abftraft from the coiiftitution of each state
principal officers,executive, legiflativeand
judicial y.
Mii-tia,
Officers of the Banks, capitals, dates of in
corporation, periods of limitation, ex
tent of property, &c.
Lfyivcrfiti* s, College* and Academies,
Sociciics, fcientifir, humane, political &c
Exhibiting in as general and compiehenfive a
view as pofiible the internal police, the state
of literature, arts, commerce, and focnty,in
uhe (eveial states.
Price 50 cents.
Printed by Stewart and Cochran, No. 34,
South Sccond ftreei, and John M'Culloch, No.
1, norrh Third street, and fold by them and
the bookfel'ers. J an - a -
Notice is hereby given,
r r**HAT the fubferiber has been duly ap-
X pointed Administratrix on the estate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late? of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has faken upon herfelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law dire&s—and all persons in
terested, are defircd to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
A LL persons who have any demands against
the Estate of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subscriber, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate.: And all
persons who (land indebted to said Estate, are
requested to fettle with him immediately; as the
Act of Limitation of Ast ions, which is to take
place on the ftrft day of December next, will
otherwise render it necefTary for him to com
mence suits agamft them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, Nov. 13* '793*
N- B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requcfted to insert this in their
refpe&ive newspapers, and forward their ac
counts for the fame, to J. M.
Treasury Department,
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofalj will
be received at the Office of the Secretary
of the Treasury, until the 6 h of February next
inclusive, for the supply of all Rations which
may be required during the present year t at the
fevcral places of rendezvous hereafter mention
ed, tor the Recruiting Service, viz.
At New-Brunfwick, in New-Jeifcy;
At Philadelphia, j)
At Lancailcr, > in Pennfvlvania.
At Reading, )
The rations to br furnifhcd arc to consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of hiead or flonr^.
One pound of brcf, or £ of a pound of pork.
Half * jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One qu«t t of fait }
Two quarts of vinegars
, , > per ioo.rations,
1 wo pounds ot loap < r
On pound of candles)
THF.
i/n n.nions icfidcnt in the
tawiGF.
Just Imported,
m London, Dublin and Glasgow,
Fron
And now opening for lale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
Jit No. 118, Market jlrcet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which arp the following :
N~"EW Annual Register for 1792
European Magazine for the fir ft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester focicty, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Difiiey's life of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty,a colle&ion of efiays
Varieof Prulfia's worlci
Calm obfervei—by Mackintosh
Ru(fell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, Aiperbly gilt
Elegant extratts of natural history
Sauguier and Briflon's voyage
Ilochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of Bnffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Bnffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whifaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on inafonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
KifTes of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vailiaint's travels, with superb engravings
Dowmnan's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and imma'eriali.m
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Koa's travels
Frank I'm'sirfe and works
Grozier*s description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
TTelvetttis on man
Karnes's Iketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse di<stionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral fentiment#
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. & Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wall is on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark, Rufiia, Poland,&c.
Cox's travels into Switze'land
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical di&ionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid-
wife i'v
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzaoe's d.lTertations
London practice of physic
Bell's fnrgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
MONEY* boirowcd or loaned, accounts sta
ted or coUefled, employers suited with
domestics, house rooms, boarding and lodging
nented, let or procured—foldicr's, mariner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims on the
public ; (bares in the banks, in thecanaK and
the turnpike road : certificates granted by the
public, and the old and late paper monies ;
notes of band, bills, bonds and morgages, with
or without depofus—Bought, fold, or nego
ciated at No. 8, in south Siklh-ftreer, below
Market-flrect by FRANCIS WHITE,
WHotranfaft* business in th® public offices for
country people and others, by virtue of a pow
er ot attorney, or by perfoaal application.
December 11.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Secend-flreei,
Seconddoor b .-low the corner ol Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general AJfortment of
New Books ani Stationary,
Which will be disposed of on the Jo we ft terms.
Dec. 23. mw&f tf
ALL persons having any de
mands agamll the ettate ol GhORGE
WIBLE, laic ol the city ot Philadelphia, baket,
arc requcftcd to bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated ; and those who are indebted, arc
desired to make immediate payment.
HENRY REES, Aminiflrator.
2 a w"3 w.
January 13.
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookseller, at the Stone House, in Second
ftreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Of A' ts, Sciences, and Mifceljaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new i
BY WHICH
The Different Sciences and Art*,
arc digejled into the form of
Diftinft Treaties or Syfteins :
THTS volume contains principles of Levels
Liberty, of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
don, Longitude. Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illullrated with Twen*
ty two Copperplates.
As a number of families are dill in the
country, and it is not generally known who
areretu'ned. T. Dobfon, folic!ts the favor
of the fubferibers to qal ! or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poflible.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now prcfented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an imperfect state, some ac
count of the reason of that impei feftion fhonld
be given. On the Brh of September last, the
Publisher had the misfortune of having his
Printing-Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out-in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the figures, with
, which he was printing the tables of lo
garithms, belonging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence of the lire.
As a supply of tbefe could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the neceflity of pub
" lifhing the volume without the r e tables; but
hopes he (hall be able to publish them with the
nfcxt volume which is now in considerable for-
wardnefs.
The Publisher embraces thi* opportunity of
exprelTing his grateful acknowledgments td
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to such of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necessity of
pundVuality, both in taking up the volumes as
early as poflible after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the fub
feribers having got only one, two, three, Zzc.
volumes, and several volumes remain unpatd.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stage*
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpaid lays the Publilher under
very serious embarrafljnent, and deprives him
of the use of many Thousands which
at this time would be of very eflentia! service.
For these reasons the Pnbliftier finds himfelf
under the neceflity of recurring to the or iginal
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those who
take and pay to the time of publication.
December 10.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor,
Cj" Terms of Subscription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of persons
•who r.fiJr at a difiance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advertisement% of cne square, or less, in
fertedfour times for One Dollar—once, for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—thcfe of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this tine, and Subscrip
tions, will be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourthflreet,five doors north of the
Indian Queen
PHILADELPHIA:
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
aawtl J.