EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. I£3 of Vol. V.]
* JAMAICA RUM,-
LANDING at vh.-irf,
ttas Druwhnrfje, out of tt><* IVaCCkcs
ieDt. V*NWMA«i t, " nl JAMAICA,
V FOR $41 E &r
peter Blight.
"Carolina Rice and-Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY zr.d FRFNCH
BUR R S TO ne S,
FOR SALE BY
Gurney and Smith.
May 14- £jL
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAP :V, No. 118,
Maikst-St'," -i;
An ElTay oil Slavery,
Orti mm: J<o < 1 • ol » ltw
i«> eftr&J «»» aw>«/*,' inak/ry. ■M-: ihe fractal
faith.- Some uS» »'i' ; • i>laii"hi art oll ( ied
ro prove the rahor olJrte»f« t" he much mure
frodvrtivt <h»n tint ot jte'f,' ,1 that countr,.» are
rich, powerful and haopv. proton,nn a- the
4.x^V.„^ TT -Trr*Kr~rr» ; (>y Own
Ijbor; and hener tne n cili'v rnnctufi mi, thai
(javcrv is impolitic ■ s well s uvjujl.
Price 25 Cents'. dtf
v t <5.
'o-Morrow Morning*
"Wijl be landed rear Wa , n»» r li cet uh:i f.from
onboard the Tchooner Madifnn, Jar. tar
rock, "naftcr, Irnm MALAGA.
Sweet Mountain WINE,
in quarter calks
Soft (helled A monds-in lacks
Vntcatel Raifini, m jai» and
Blootn Do. in quarter barrels,
A few 7 inch Bai's C:thl> s
AND FIR SALK BY
PETER KUHN.
_ June J _
'Ccngrefs of the Umied States,
In Senate, Tuefaay May lsth, ' 7 94"
ORDEdtL), that Rufui Put a. ,H
lah Cutler, Robert Olive. an> (• ilnn
Green, do, upon the third Monday <>t Deceill
bei next, (hew eauf- 1 ' Se .at-, w.>/
much of the g?aa(< «»( land to .hem the laid
Rut'us Poritaui, iVUnaliah « ur.er, Robert
Oliver ami Gr.iiin Cre.i', pu fnaM roanAtt
entitled "An ast authorising t'e " >nt and
conveyance of certain la-os to the Ohm Com
pany of affociatet," shall not e decta-ed
void, as may interfere with 3"d be fuificient
to fatisfy the claims of the French settlers
at Galliopolij.
Ordered, that t'.e delivery of a copv of
the above order to Kurvu 1 1 .1. JVlanaflah
Cutler, Roi ert O '.ver, or Cwiffirt Green. and
the publication of the fame, one .nonih, in
one of the Gazettes printed m this lhall
be deemed fufficient nofii : t c< i.
Extri<£Vfrom the Journals of Senate.
Att.fi,
SAM. A. OTIS, secretary.
X 11.
May i4>
is ftequefted,
THAT no pe r son will atty irticle*
for the ufc of the New Ihe'iuc, without an
order in writiivf, by oftrfelvis, or Sarn
ie] Amfcrrfof>, *Vn jus.
WIGKELL & REINAGLE.
dtf. •
Mav y>.
All persons u>ho have any de
hißiids upo.i thetiew TtieatV , are icqucft-
V««) to fend in their account to No." s34i ln
ijear Eighth Itrtfet, o» soon ai
„,|»p)fepijpt,
WtGNELJ. & REIN iGLE.
dlf. '
'•U l i
Guthrie's Geography improved.
THE subscription lor this work on the ori
ginal MIIIV of .welve dollars and the bind
ing, will becloled this day—and .in Monday
the subscription will open at fourteen dollars,
•xclufive of iheprice of binding.
The new maps added to this edi'On are
twentv one ; anions which are thole of w-
Hamplhire, Massachusetts, Conneflicul,
Rhode-Island, Vermont, New Yoik, New
Jerfev, Peonlylvania, Delawa.e, Maryland,
Virginia, Kentucky, North Carolina, tne
Oeneff.v Government, Souih Caioli .1, r.nd
Georgia. Tliefe maps have nev.-r been given
in any former fyftein of Gcogiapi)* a ' o» 't
is hoped, would alone be fuficient to entitle
this work to a prefer-nce to any other edition
of Guthrie. , „
N B. The map of the United States,
which is compiling by Mr. S muel Lewis, from
the refpeftive state maps, wnl be far more
completethan any one yet publilh.d, ai d be
printed on two laige (heer f of paper, nearly
the size of the '.ate Mr. Murray'! map.
May 31 6
Tuesday, June 10, 1794.
For Charter,
Brig
x • Lady Walterflorfl^
Edward Broock, Mailer.
BURTHEN 1700 ba;ieis, Cailsf-ft, kn<l is
10 complete \Kder to take in a.cargo immcdi
atelv.
Also for Sale or Charter,
Tfco New SHI PS ill the hunhfeirrf 240 tons
eacn. For terms app v">
JOSEPH SIMS,
Who has for falc,
Madeira and Sherry Wines,
of t!»e si ft quality, Brandy, Red pdle
Je'u'ts Ba«k, &rc. Sec.
June 2 d
For Hamburgh,
The new Ship
jSgHL STAR,
John Vanneman, Mast r.
TO '..ii with ri couvtftrten-t lp©*d, hfcvipg
three fourth* ot" her cargo ni-ea y engaged
Fur freight or paflage apply to the master on
b-a- , or
THOMAS (Jf JOHN KETLAND.
June 3. d
For Charter,
The Ships
J ohn Bulkeleyy
AMD
FOUR FRIENDS,
T hey vII be ready ccvn e their car
pnr. in a few rla . r.nd will carry about
aj..t>ba"el •I. F" : u-rn-npi)l to
JESSE & ROBERT PTALN.
June 9.
FOR SALE,
At the STORES of
JeflTe & Robert Wain,
PORT v.'lNi in pipi'j hhds. and quar
ter cafcs
I.ISBON d >. n quaner c'afk"
Soucnoilu <•> qu-i- '>- r
chests
A quant t. of Li(boh and Cnd'Z SALT
S.ifr (h e ;|ed ALMONDS in bales
Velv-t CORKS, in do.
Ruflia MATTS.
Jri'.e Q d
ADVERTISEMENT.
LETTERS 011 the fubjca of the Wash
ington Lottery) being by mistake repeat
edly add."effcct to the Commiittoners for the
City O' Walhingion.
Perfojis c >iice: ned are bereby miormed,
that all such fliculd be addrefled either to
W. Deakins julti of Washington, or to the
Subfcribor. The commissioners never hay
ing contemplated any further concern in
this business, tlian in their afTent to receive
the bonds and approve the names of the
managers. The prizes have been paid and
are paying on d mand by W. Deakins,
Washington, Peter Oilman, Bolton, and
by the Subscriber.
For the Lottery No. 2, the Securities al
ready given will be retained by the com
miiiioners, or transferred by them at their
option to the bank of Columbia ; and the
commHGoners will be consulted refpeciing
a judicious and equitable difpefition of the
houses to be built thereby ; their treasury
or the bank of Coluiiib;a will the
money intended for the National Univer
sity, and they wil! be consulted in the no
mination of the 24 managers ; but all the
refponfibiUty renting the general "dispo
sition of the tickcts, and payment 01 pri
zes, will reft as in the Hotel Lottery, on
the nerfons whose names are and may be
hereafter published as assistants to forward
I this business with
N. B. Mr. Blodeet will be particularly
obliged if ihofe peri'ons who pofiefs prizes
ye: unpaid, will apply for their money as
earty as possible.
June 7th. "•
Treasury of the United States.
ALL. Person* who <»ie iiicii" (I t" dif;>o*e ol
tithe. i>f the (liferent spec es of the Stocks «it
the Umtd Sia"s, a.e hereby notified, that
Proposals will be received at the Trealurer's
office No. 71 Chefnot ftrret, at any time un
til Friday the 13th instant at 12 o'clock.
1,7 SAMUEL MEREDITH
Age t for the Trustees for
the reduction of the Public
Debt.
June 4th. «794-
AND
SHOES.
A quantity of {lout well made Men's
fizeSWOEvS, adapted for t*ie Southern mar
ker, Votjalc at
No. 36, North Third Jlreet.
May 6
Some few Counterfeit Poii-Not< s of the
Ba-ik of M-Tylanrf, hav ng been la dydif o
v red in circulation, oQtr.C Og he fame
wee found to ,co«r«e tiom the bjck parts of
Virgin a, wh re ihey pfot».»b y in it liiued ; ;o
V im p< rition it is thoughi nrt eliary 10
g ve the tollow-ng defcrip ion of rhem, by
wU ch t!»«y may readily be dete&td.
Th y h c the leitei D, for the r alphabeti
cal ma.k, at the icft hand lide of ihc Nuie.
The paper on winch lh»y are printed i*
mm e full and tender, ine»liok<s of the letters,
in the eugraving are in general Wronger, and
a darker appf'T.ince than jn the bills.
Hie signature Wii'.tanj P.uteifdn, is badly
d >.»e, the flrokcs of Uie letteu, are ttiffani
i,bond, aud aopear to be painted ofer well
the i C'i. as well as the fL»unlhingof the name.
T'»e value is left blank in the engraving, to
be titled up in writing, l^e f u, n mj y be
mo e or lels at pleaiure.
No true P it Notes of the alphabetical
ma k, above a (tribed, hove been 1-tely if
lu-d, and very lew «irc now-in circulation.
lac doove reward >,t One Thouland dol
lar# wni be p»o to any pei son, or
w.n; ftuli ditcuvcr, or piolecute 10 convi£liun,
I the Itveral offenders, o any of ol the
| 101 - wing deicnp'.ion, viz.
The pcifoil Or pci lous, whj ti.e
| plate.
The printer, or printer* ol tic said bills.
fivfry pcrfoii who lias afcled as ptiocipal in
any way >n "he counterlciing and uttering
the faili bills.
WILLIAM PATTERSON. Prefidmt.
ol the Bank oi MaiyUud.
Baltimore, April 8, i? 94-
N. B. The prtnifis in me neighbouring
llaus are rcqneited to rcpubi.ih fciic above.
Morris Academy.
THIS iuftiiutioH is «4iiv open lor n.e ie-
CilJtio i of fludetm u«*lei the immediate
ca,e of Mr. Caleb RuOVll, wnofe -bnities
a , a i .nftruilor, ak! attachments the bu
siness nave long been known and approvec.
He has under him the beit afliiUnis in
the different branches—'Tne (cholars arc
t „ ug ht the EngUlh, French, L ">». and
G ek language!, publ-c-sipeaking, Win*
A...lnner.c, Geography, Aftr0.,0...y, ad
tk variou braj?cl<«> ot the Ma.liemut.es.
The hcalihy firuatiofr of tin* place is tu-h
3, lo recommend it 10 thole, who wiih to
have their ch' dren in tne country. Boaid
,„R, walhing, mend.ng, &c wi.l be pr.v.d
rd in goodfamibe ,- d the morals ot tne
Cchnlars carefully a tended 10.
The pric- including tuition, firewood,
&c. tsclu've of tne French langu ge) will
not e<c£ed thirty pounds proclalTr.ition mo
ney per annum) an addition qt three dollars
per quarter will be made to fucli I'cholars
wio are tan t the French language. The
Direfto.s a> edei Trained to pay luch atten
tion to this institution, as will render it
retpeftab e and ufetnl.
GAIiR.H L H. FORD, ~i
TIMOTHY JOHNS, jun. S- Direct s.
NATHAN FORD, J
Morriltown, May 15, 179)
j dIW. W2TTI.
TAKEN FROM ACTUAL SURyRT*
IT is with pleaiuic iliat the puoLflier has
to inform his fubfcr ; ber» and the public in
•ericrat, that the plate s now under the
h-oHs of the engraver, and in greaterk>r
ward-,6 than was a' fi'ft contemplated. At
tlufane time <e hegs leave to rmmd
them, th t subscription.paper* arefti.l o
•e i at mod of the n 'ted boolc-ftores in t.ie
city ■ and that he hipej from the who.e
of them to "beWiled to so m filch a ref
peaableca.a'ojue "« name*, as will do a
crerf.t to the work, >5 well a* atf.- d a
re .fonable encoiifagenrcnt to the urder
''•Pi .ft who are delimit* of further infor
mation are reouelted to call on
Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, Mai lt" flreet.
April* 14- mßctlltf
S. BLODGET.
■i; » i. «.»«•
One thouiaud Dollars
R E W A R D.
The Ground Plan
OF THE
City and Suburbs
PHILADELPHIA.
[Whole No. 549.]
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
TN an eligible lituation, —a!fo a Country
Seat within 6 miles of* the City, with 9
acres of laud, 01 42 acres of Jand and
meadow, the H jufe is not exceeded by ma
ny in the vicinity of the city, in size, or
convenience.
niw&*'iot
For particulars apply to the printer.
UNITED STATES.
RICHMOND, Vir. June 5.
On Friday the 33d ult. tlif Grand Jury
sworn in tile Federal Circuit Court for this
Diftridt, made the following presentment, to
wit:
" Conceiving it our eHernial duty to take
notice of every obstacle to the happiness,
liberty and prosperity of the good people of
tiie United States of America, and observing
With great concern that notwithstanding
Britain has violated l'everal important articles
, of the Treaty of Peare ; has taken, detain
■ ed and despoiled many American veflels con
trary to the rights of neutrality without
making any compcnfation therefor, and has
& -till dees discover in a variety of instances,
a difpolition hostile to the American prospe
rity, tranquility and happiness—the citizens
of America are considerably injured by the
recovery of debts due from them to Britilh
fubjeils,which were contracted prior to the
year 1774. We therefore present, as a na
tional grievance the recovery of such debts
by Britiih subjects, until that government
shall fully comply \v;th the Treaty of Peace
on their part, and also make reparation
for the spoliations they have committed
on American veflels."
COMMUNICATION?.
Complaints againit rulers are as old as
the origin of representative governments ;
and those uttered against the servants of
the public in every sphere, whether town,
dillri(3.ltat£,or uatiun»-are different it: no
thing but in the pitch they arelat at, the
lur:e r'lftng ox fulling in cxact proportion to
the itation filled. It is the common lot
of •' the rulers of the free and so long
as there (hall remain any who wish to sup
plant their neighbors in stations of hortcr
or emolument, juil so long will the world
be amused with the melodious
of these chorus-fingers:—lt is to them
that the public are indebted for the news,
I that such and such a member has loft 1, s
popularity—th.it he does not represent the
feelings and interests of his constituents,
&c. But when the real voice of the peo
ple is heard—as it most emphatically is, on
the day of election, we are then convinced
th3t the noise we have heard, was i Ife
and hollow. The truth of this rema-. k
has abundant pioofs in the election ef
Federal Reprcfeutatives. For near lix years
the tongue against them hash cert
in constant motion—the complaints have
echoed and re-echoed, until they have ti
red on the public ear—the fame charges
have been alledged—and the fame afler
tions made. However, at three fcveral
times the People have beer! called upon
to pronounce on thier fate—and they
have, as often, decided peremptorily in
their favor. Still, however, the raifers
rail on—and fiom defeats, rife in redou
bled vociferation. Were pi oof of the a
bove positions needed, it can be readily
g^ven.
The Representatives in Congress from
the truly republican (late of ConneSicut,
have been foremoft in oppofmg the mea
sures which were intended to involve the
country in war, and thus to overturn the
government, and to subvert the Constitu
tion of the U. S. and have had their
(hare of obloquy. This their conllituents
have known, and as a reward for their ser
vices, have honored them with the highest
number of votes in the nominat'.on declar
ed lalt week of candidates for members of
Conerels; and ths names of TRUM
BULL, TRACY, HILLHOUSF,
SWIFT and TREADWELL ftillcoi-
tiuue pre-eminent in the lifts of those who
have deferveti well of liieir country-.
TO BE SOLD,
tu&thtf
BOSTON, June 2.
3-3
<P
For the Gazette of the UnitedStatls.
To JOSEPH PRIESTLY, l. l.d. &c.
Sir,
A Itrmger arrived in a new country
with whose opinions, habits, and manners,
he has but that imperfett acquaintance
which is formed by literary correfpon
dtnce, v.iil be fafer by preserving a fe
fj-eclfu' distance from, than by an inti
mate union witbj any party who may step
forward ar.d endeavor by a flattering ad
driis lo prepofitfs his mind in their fa-
Vir.
Your anfwef to the address of the De
nocratic Soeiety cf New-York, is modcft
ind dec ent, it conveys ideas of peace ai;d
harmony with all the World, but diffeiing
fn m their expectations.
They hoped to find in yon the enemy of
thofc who have persecuted you—theytruf
ted tbr.t you weie like themfelve* unable
to forgive injuries or to forget wrongs
done.ii/ or to, themselves ; that becauie
you have written and preached in favor of
the Unity of the Deity, you therefore,
with liitm, were adverle to the principles
of Chriitinnity, inculcated ill the sermon
"of Jefys (brill, delivered on the Monnt
tif dives, <v herein he tells US that " Blrf
" fed are the reaej-makers for they fliall
" be called the Children of God," Matt.
v. 9. " BleiTed are ye when men (hall
" revile y;u, and persecute you, and fay
" all manner of Evil again 3: you falfely, for
my fake; Rejoice and be glad: For great
■"is your Reward in Heaven: For so
persecuted they the Prophets, which
" were before you," Matt. v. 11 and 12.
Your answer to them convinces a number
of your friends that they were and are
mistaken in their ideas of your refent
mer.ts. There are few men in America,
who will not be happy in the acquain-
tance of a person diiiinguifhed as ypu are
by your researches in philosophy and ma
thematics—and the moderation of your
enquiries into moral, natural, and revealed
religion, and you will reap in this Wes
tern World a tempoial enjoyment of a
well earned reputation, if yoit preserve
yourfelf from the spirit of party.
But, Sir, you ?.rc in danger—a party
is endeavoring to make a merit to them
selves of your weight and influence—Be-
ware, Sir,, of calling it into the fca'e on
cither fide. In the preponderant scale,
its value wiil be ijft by a sri xturc with the
majority—in the lighter scale it will kick
the beam with yonrafTociates and be found
wanting :—Preferve it then; for rhe good
of mankind, by your guarded conduct,
and let us (who have only heard from a
ditlance) fee that your virtues are truly
Chnftian, tho' you express doubts of the
Divinity of our Saviour; that you believe
in the rr.efiage, tho' you doubt the cha
• rafter attributed to the Meflenger, and
that persecuted in one City you have fled
to another, only for peace and repose.
Be afflired Sir, that there is no perfe
ction here against opinion?, and that
however different your's may be from
that of the majority, you may write, print
or preach them, without danger of per
secution of any kind ; and that while we
are inftrufted by those parts, of your doc
trines, which with freedom we imbibe, we
fhnll never be angry because we cannot
fublcribe to those which we reject, nor
fuipeft you of being displeased for the
Cxercife of our free will.
Conducting yourfelf in this way, your
private virtues, your indultry in the pur
s iit of knowledge ufeful to mankind, will
render ypur name refpefted as Franklin's
—-by a contrary conduit, by coalescing
with any' party whatever, you will cer
tainly diminish your.fame as much as the
opposite party is proportioned to that
whiohi.yxSu (hall adopt, and poflibly by
the merger of that party, fink the whole
of your well earned reputation in a long
Yours, See.
Phil. June 7th, 1794,
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
"f Mr. Sedgivicl's observations, in
House of R-prrfcn 'ativet, on the mo
o/ Mr. Gersdbuc, for an ir.dcmr.ifica
' t the fpaliatians committed on slme-
ommerce.
not been his wifli, Mr.
'-."ilorverj, tmt this, question
'■ ' "uught forward at the preient
time. As it was, however, be r ore the
House, as he approved the motiies of his
colleague, who made .the motion, and as
he perfedtly concurred with him :n opini
on on the fubjedt, he should make a few
concifc observations.
He believed he said that in a govern
ment (nth as that of this coiintry, it was
the peculiar duty of those, to whom the
administration has been committed, to ex
tend security and protection to all the in
terelb, and redress for all the injuries of
the citizens. That inexcusable and unex
ampled injuries had been perpetrated, and
an immense value in property unjufily spoil
ed, and that the honor of our country had
been insulted, without provocation, were
facts admitted by all. Those whose pro
pel ty had been the sport of wanton viola
tion, which in many inftartces had reduced
the fufferers from ease and affluence, to
want and mifsry ; come forward and de
mand redress and indemnification. That
they were entitled to such indemnification,
from the nature of our social compact he
understood to be agreed by every gentle
man. (Here Mr. S. was interrupted by
several members, and Mr. Nicholas and
Mr. Smilie declared that in their opinion, 1
there was no obligation to indemnify the
fufferers, except it were done cut of a fund
to be formed by the sequestration of Bri.
tifh debts.) Mr. S. said he was much o
bliged to the gentlemen for setting him
right; till now he had believed that the
right of the fufferers to indemnification
was denied by none. If this however was
Really a question, yet to be decided, it
Was due to the fufferers, it was due to our 1
own honor to decide it without delay.
It was asked, he said, by what means
is the government to administer- redress;
They were lirft to apply to the govern
ments which had infli&ed the injuries, to
state their nature, and extent, and to de
mand in unequivocal terms redress. This
bufincfs notwithstanding all the opposition
which had been made was happily irt a
proper train. He hoped, and believed
the application would be effedlual. It
might however fail; and in that cafe he
was free to declare, that we owed it to our
honor, and to our injured citizens, to at
tempt redress by means of the Fall, resort.
In that unhappy event, the interest of the
fufferers must be involved with the general
interests of the nation, and must abide the
result-os war.
But if fatisfaflion should not be obtain
. Ed by negociation,«and should the govern
j nient from any political confederation, not
seek redress by force in such events, the
fufferers would have a just claim on their
country for indemnification.
The question now immediately before
the House was, to fefer the motion for
indemnification to the committee of the
whole on the fubjedt of sequestration.
This was not fair, as refpe&ed that part
of the Hojife who approved the engage
ment to indemnify, and who would never
consent to sequestration. It was not fair
as refpe&ed the fufferers, because he be
lieved there was not a gentleman in the
House who supposed that the measure of
sequestration would prevail. He was asto
nished that any should believe that it
ought to be adopted. He liimfelf with
out hesitation approved of engaging to
indemnify the fufferers ; but at the fame
time with all his heart, he abhorred seques
tration and confifcation of debts as the
measures which all civilized nations had
for more than a century abandoned as im
moral and unjust.
He would not now enter into a difcufTi
on of the question of sequestration. When
ever it came directly under consideration,
he pledged himfelf ro undertake to prove
that it was againit the law of nations, that
it was immoral, unjust, and impolitic. He
had been sorry to perceive that the feelings
of the mover of that proposition (Mr.
Dayton) were wounded, by the terms in
which gentlemen had spoken of his mo
tion. He himfelf, in his conscience, be
lieved it to be immoral and unjust, and as
such he felt himfelf bound as a man of ho
nor to give it his strenuous opposition.
The gentleman surely could not reasonably
expect that independent men, would fa
crifice opinion to politeness or to friend
ship. All he could do and that he did
with pleasure, was to dcclare that he be
lieved the gentleman's motives were pure
and upright, and that he had a perse&
confidence in the correftnefs of his moral
lentiments.
SENEX.
Viewing the fubjeft in the light he had
cxprefTed, he appealed to the candor and
fairnels of gentlemen, to what tended the
combining of those irritative questions of
[ indemnification and sequestration, hut to
j wound the feelings and evade the just ap
plication of the fufferers ? f
he said, had charged his
colleage, and those who had supported his
motion, with attempting, by these means,
meanly to court popularity. To refute
this chargo would, in his opinion, be un
necessary, because no well-informed man
in America could believe it. He did not
know that the opinions, which were held
by his friends and himfelf, on this fubje<£t,
were popular. It was fufficient that they
were believed to be just. Was he, how
ever, disposed to recriminate, by disclos
ing motives which were not avowed, but
concealed, he could tell a tale, which, he
believed, would be heard with effe£k.
From the commencement of the admi
nirt;ration of this government, certain gen
tlemen, and particularly those of the eastern
states, had been charged with regulating
i their political conduct by local considerati
ons. That they had difregaided the inter
[ eft of every part of the United States, but
the particular diftri&s of the country from
I which they came. The charge was now
' reversed—those diflri&s have fuffered in
j finitely beyond their neighbors, by the ef
i fefts of those measures of which we com
! plain; and notwithstanding all this, the re
-1 prefentatives of those diftri&s all at
; once so totally changed," have become so
1 tame, so torpid, as to be regardless of the
| interests and fufferings of their immediate
I < onftitu nts. " Not," said he, is this all;
our kindfouthern brethren have, from pure
disinterested benevolencej and with a most
acute sensibility, determined to procure
for our conltituents that redress to which
we are indifferent.
It had been fair!, that the gentlemen
vho wlfe in favor of indemnification, had
tppofed every measure of energy. They
lad indeed opposed certain measures, to
which they would give a very different ap
pellation. They had not only favored, but
had been the authors of every measure of
refpe£tab!e efficiency, as well in refpeft to
force, as the means of defraying the expen
ces which our (ituation had rendered it ne
cessary fhotild be incurred. He need not
fay who had opposed those measures,
PHILADELPHIA,
JUNE 10.
From a Corrcfp^ndint.
The diforganizers of this country who
pretend to be the (launch friends of liber
ty, have long since forfeited all right to
that diflirguifhed character.
The rial friends of the equal rights of
man, while they lincerely rejoice at the
triumphs of freedom and justice in every
quarter of the globe, regret excefles which
not only tarnilh the lustre of the belt of
causes, but put to hazard the eventual es
tablishment of a fret government.
The partizans of discord on the other
hand, have uniform-y Ihouted hofannas to
the triumphing faction in France, let it
consist of whom it will, and have jultified
the measures of men who have destroyed
each other Can this be right ?
Jn the General Advertiser of Friday la ft,
there is however a paragraph which devi
ated for a moment from this hitherto uni
form line of condu&. The fate of the
celebrated Danton who has fallen tinder
the axe of the guillotine, through the pre
valence of a competitor—is there attribu
ted " to the manoeuvres of the aristocrats"
—nor is this all, the exigence of rival fac
tions is not only recognized, but it is also
con. r e[Tcd that, instigated by the aristocrats
thefc fadlions destroy each other. This
was going too far—it was a concefiion in
favor of truth and common sense, that lays
the axe to the root of the whole system of
anarchy—the next day we accordingly
find in the General Advertiser another
tune is introduced—the man who it is fug.
gelled, has fallen a vi<3im to aristocracy,
is denounced as a Traytor, an ambitious,
avaricious wretch. It is now said, " his
love of money directed his steps in the
high road to the guillotine ," that he was
"lepeatedly bribed, and in Belgia purloin
ed a large sum of money that he had
" risen from poverty to the possession of
immense fortune, which he must have ac
cumulated by malpractices —if bring
ing such a man to the guillotine is aristo
cratic, (and this is affcrted in the General
Advertiser,) what mull the people of
France think of Arillocracy ?
Extra<fl as a letter from London, dated
March 24th, 1794.
ii 1 he political horizon of Europe begins
to brightenthere are ftroneer hone,
twined of the French Republic ucinl
to detach the Pruflian from the coalition r 1
tyrants : his coffers are perfeflly draißed ,
his preoeceffor had 68,000,000 of dollars in
rial specie locked up in his palace, but thev
are flown. France we know has made him
ad\ ".ices of money T England feat last wet V
to the fame person half a million ; perhar,,'
he 11 keep both and remain inactive. Till
this negociation is terminated youare'nof to'
eXpect any conliderable attack to be mad*
by France.
The loan of the minister here of ii.ooo.cco
was applied for by lenders to the amount of
71 millions, they expe&ed to clear 8 or 10
per cent, but the omnium has nsver rea" l »d
beyond 1 i-j so that the subscribers f«I
much chagrin in their diiaopointin.'iit. Near
3000 tickets of the lottery, now drnvine
were held hy the purrhallrs of the hct'Jv
when the drawing commenced, by which on
a fair calculation they Ihould lose 100 00a
The bonus (a term made use of in Chanee
Alley) in the new loan of a lottery ticket ij
found to be nothing in (lead of 11 or 'ir
pounds, which th-y hive been wofth'in <"ormi.
er years ; they cannot vend them at more
than 10 pounds. I hope vou manage the e
things better in Philadelphia; as well as
* rancc * Gqi. Adv.
Laieji European Intelligence,
Tranfiatcd from Par'u paper by
the Jbip Harmony, Ci.pt. Qfmon.
PARIS, April 7.
For some time pall the ftrifleft Dolic» is
observed here. The committees of public
lafety continue to purine with indt'feti»aUe
zeal all the enemies of liberty under whate
ver mask they endeavor to''-j>hreaf them
selves. The atidacity of public ;,qt:*:!c3 is
seen no more ; and the p;r,ple, u hot- every
I sentiment and with eemtrs in t!:- national
convention, becomes enlightened ar.d appears
armed against the intrigues which were tiif
traeling them in every quarter.
Every day a crowd of the emiHirieii of
foreign powers is arrested, also emigrants
and intriguers who were prctefled iiy the
faiflion which lias been annihilated.
Frequent visitS are made 111 the public
places. The several theatres have been search
ed. On the sth, at ,eight in the evening,
the ci-devant Palais : Royale was furroimried,
and it is laid that several accomplices of the
last conspirators were am-lled.
April u.
From Toulon, April 2.
The Duqupfne ?.nd the Corvettee la
Fauvette arrived here yefterd j y evening,
with a fleet of 20 vefltfs from Marleilles,
lo ioed on the Repnblic's scc.iunt, with
ammunition Bcr. of all Und* for this aTfe
nal. They fell in with three enemy's vef
fe's, one of which came with si gunfliot of
the Duquefne, Kit the Republican v.ffcl
preparing tc> receive her, {he tacked about
and made off. The naval preparations
proceed with an aftivitv unknown under
the old government, Already we have fit
ted out several vessels of fyrce, which are
employed to convoy merchantmen. The
state of the vefftls in the harbor follows:
Firlt division armed and ready for sea
The Sans Culotte ot 80 guns
The Tonnant of 74
The Timoleon of 74
The Genermx of 74
The Heurenx of 74
Second division, Arming.
The Languedoe of 80
The Cenfeur of 74
The Duquefne of 74
The Conquerant of "4
The Guerrier of 74
Third division, Equipping.
The Ca Ira of 80
The Mercure of 74
The Alcide of 74
Tlie Souvermn of 74
The Barrat of 74
Makes five (hips of the line ready for
sea, five nearly ready, and rive preparing.
Add to tliefe, a vast number of frigates,
corvettes and ether light veilils.
April 12.
On the iotli 25 persons :ppeared be
fore the tribunal. The ast of accusation
mentions them as the accomplices of the
infamous Hebert, Clootz, and others,
who have already received the punishment
due to their crimes. They are accused
of conspiring againit the liberty and fa fif
ty of the French people, of wishing to
disturb the tranquility of the republic, by
a civil war, dnring which, in the mentis
of Ventofe and Germina 1 , the coirfpira
tors were to difTblve the National Conven
tion, aflafdnate some of the members a:>d
other patriots, deftrov the republican go
vernment, flize the reigns of anminiftra
tion and give a tyrant to France. Their
names follow :
P. Gafpnrt! (Anaxagoras) ChswwnfWtt
aged 3 1 ; man of letters, fx-agent of the
commune of Paris.
*.■
*
\
i
&1J. B. j\ Gobet, agefi 57 ; a deputy ol
the condiment aflembly, and ex-Lifhop ol
Paris.
Artliur Dillon, aged 43'; ex-general.
C. Chardinj aged 50 ; bookseller.
A. Pi L. Dupkffis, ■" widow of Ca
-1 mille Defineulins, aged 23.
P. Sitrton, aged 39 ; deputy to the
National Convention.
J. F. Bcereter, aged 45 ; manufactu
rer of piques.
Nourv Grammond Rofelly, 41 ; adju.
tanl-general.
A. Ndury Grammond, son, aged 19;
officer:
M. M; F. Goupel, widow of Hebert,
aged 38. ,
J. J. Lacortib, aged 33; living on
Ins incpme.
J. Montain Lambin, aged 31 5 phyfi
dan. .
J. F. Lambert; aged 31 ; turn-key
of the Luxembourg prifun.
A. Burell, aged 40; adjutant in the
Alpine army.
J. M. Lapalue, aged 29; judge of
the revolutionary commidion at Tours.
j. M. F. Bra fie, aged 31 ; lieut.
C. Dumas, aged 53 ; corporal.
M. M. A. Barras, aged 30 { ci-devant
lawyer.
S. B» Lacroix, aged 26 5 member of
the revolutionary committee of the sec
tion of Unity, &c.
L. B. Chenaux, aged 38, ei-devant
Member bf the Commune of Paris.
P. A. aged 41 ; Commis
sioner for cloathing to the armies.
J. M. Beyfer, aged 40 ; General of
Brigade;
G. N. LaiTalkj aged 24; Captain of
a merchant vefiel.
R. A. Barbe, aged 49 ; sergeant in
the revolutionary army.
j. B. Ernest Bueher, aged 44 ; living
on his income.
The trial was continued on the nth.
Several witnefies were heard on that day
and on the 12th. The 13th was spent
in debate; the jury having been three
hours confnlting, 19 of the accused were
pronounced guilty, death. Seven were
acqu tt.d, viz. Chatdin, Bertere, Mon
tain-Lambiri, Dumas, Chenaux, Prangey
& Barbe. Tliofe condemned, fuffered
death 011 the 13th, at 5 in the evening,
on the square of the Revolution.
April 13.
TRAIT OF HEROISM.
Letter from General Plchcgru to the Mi
nijier at JVar.
Reunion-fur-oifc, April I.
I have just now been informed of an
heroic action which deserves to be record
ed. On the 29th ult. Citizen Woltz,
huflar of the 3d regiment, had an arm
carried away by a cannon ball, and reti
red, faying to his comrades, who feeling
for h;s misfortune, praised his courage ;
" Don't attend to me, but avenge the re
public for having been deprived of one of
its zealous defenders." This courageous
mr,n as he puffed by the infantry, encou
raged tlv.'rt by his words, which breath
ed the moil exalted pntiiotifm, and the
wholedivifion applaudedbyfhouts of Vive
la Rcpabliyue,
The number of pi ifoners as published
by the police, is 7241.
JACOBIN SOCIETY, April i S .
Couthon gave information of the bufitlefs
traniaited in the convention this day. He
m ormed, that Barrere had communicated
intelligence of the capture of 21 veJTels be
ongmf so the enemy, all which prizes had
oeen made within two or three days, and
.• ena the fitting he had men
tioned the capture of fix more. He also gave
■mormatmn of the taking of the port of
f . e l " e principal communication that
" C , ' V '"S of monkies had with Sardinia,
('flared that the tenure of this town
f ; ' !~ 1S l'ttle tyrant in a state of arrefta
• in riedmont, and facilitates the receipt
provisions purchased in forei-jn parts.
national convention.
April 16.
Upon the report of Couthon the following
j_ v , . catl f" s of s he decree against the ci
st nobles and ex-generals were adopted.
inft re ii e ? C^ tet ' rom '' le ' aw of the 15th
vp " 3 ° rei P ner ' residing in France for 20
L:;V nd all those who having resided 6
,1 ' ,a,r f married a French woman not of
'oeex-nobility.
in the law who with
"c S i. f accord 'ng to the ideas and
erf n- W?neient government, have usurp-
L'tv /"u , t ' t ' ts . or privileges of nobi
ortltofc w t o may have afftimed falfe
v «. f rom March 54.
the Imf 111(1 a severe rencontre \riilj
the lmperialifts near to this city. At fii ft we
buTfoon Ven 1 * t,k
we / a!lied advancing in a mast
compelled the enemy to fly before us. Arlon
opehed lts gates; we entered the city, drums
C f o" rS ' 111(1 there have got
pofTefiion of g pjeces of cannon, maiiy horses
Im I °f other valuable articles have
rail en into 6ur hands.
By this Day's Mail.
1
LFW-YORK, June 9.
It is no longer dubious refpedting hof.
t 't'es having commenced between Portu
gal and the Dey of Algiers. The follow,
ing is another confirmation of the pleating
event: r 6
Captain Farmer, who arrived at Boston
the 2d mft. 62 days from Oporto, (Por
tugal) informs, that three days before he
lailed, a press of 500 men wta matte' at
"T, .' tn _ m an the fleet, to (hut up the
Algennes in the Mediterranean.
The Algerines in «j*v. second cruise,
did.not take a fn their firft they
Cagtured ten 6 Genoese
By the arrival, on Saturday of the Th,
George, Capt. Hunter, front Liver p. o.
-which port Jbe left the 2id hf April, lie
have received l*ondon neivfpiyptrs t*f tht
14tb, lsth, 16lb, I "jib, and k; 'h of A
prtl -from -wbirh we copy the follow
ing :
Revolutionary Tubvhal.
PARIS, April 3.
Danttm and tht at bet Dtputiet.
. After the reading of the ast of accusa
tion and the report of Saint-Just; Amar,
the Public Accuser requested that Gene
ral Weftermann Should be brought frpm
tbc Conciergerie, in order to be tried with
the Deputies. This request was compli
ed with.
As soon as General Weftermann arri
ved, the Revolutionary Tribunal proceed
ed to the examination of evidence against
him—Cambon, the Deputy, was exami
nated—His dcpofuion related entirely to
Fabre d' Eglantine, Delaunay d' Angers,
and Chabot—He developed the measures
adopted by the Committee of Five, to
suppress the Finance Companies and to
tftablifh the credit of Aflignats, and he
disclosed the manner in which the three
Deputies alluded to, had altered the de
cree parted by the Convention, relative to
the Eall India Compnny.
As the Tribunal were on the point of
adjourning, Danton aad Philippcaux re
queued leave to communicate freely with
their defenders——This request was acced
ed to.
April 4.
In pursuance of the rcquifition of the
public accuser, Lullier, procurer general
of the department of Paris, in consequence
of his intimate connexion with the Baron
de Batz, who has made his escape, was
ordered to be tried with the Deputies.
The Revolutionary Tribunal then proceed
ed to the examination of witnefles, but
Danton and the other deputies declared
that they would answer no questions, ex
cept in the prefencc of Roberfpierre, Bar
rere and Saint-Just.
The President of the revolutionary
tribunal, and the public accuser, attempt
ed to induce them to depart from this de
termination. Their attempts, however,
were ineffe&ual. The tribunal, in conse
quence of this event, suspended the trial,
and a report was ordered to be presented
to the Convention.
April £.
The decree patted by the Convention,
together with the letter received by the
Committee of public and general fafety,
from the adminiftratori of the Police,
where read to the deputies They pcr
filted, however, in the determination not
to answer interrogatories, unless Roberf-,
piene, Barrere, and St. Just, were sum
moned to attend. The condudl of Danw.
ton was exceedingly turbulent, and he
inveighed in very strong terms against the
judges.
In conference of the mode of conduit
adopted by the prisoners, the jury found
T\ A * '
DANTON.
Camille Defrnoulin, Lacroix, Phillipeaux,
Herault de Seychelles, and Weftermann,
guilty of a conspiracy against the Republic,
and
Chabot, Bazire, Fabre d' Eglantine, Ju
lien de Thouloufe, and Delaunay d' Angers,
guilty of corrupt practices.—D'Efpagnac,
the two Freys, Dietriche,), and Cufman,
werf aifo found gtilty, Lullier rcq.j- :te4.
At two o clock in the aftei nocr. Ji; Rtvo
lutir nary Tribunal paired feiitence of death
upon them, and ordered thera tc be execu
ted at the expiration of three hoars.
i
PLACE DE LA REVOLUTION.
Evening of the sth inft.
At five o clock the condemned persons
were conveyed in three carts from the Con
cicrgerie to the Place de la Revolution.
In the nrlt cart were, Damon, Chabot,
Lacroix, Fabre d'Eglantine, and Herault de
oechellesj In the second, Phillippeaux, De
laun.iy d* Angers, Bazire, and Camilie Def-
Ripulins. In the third Weilermann aiid the
Tv-lt.
i ney all behavtd with intrepidity, except
-acrcix. Da«ton m particular, who was
executed last, ihcwed the utmolt contempt
Of death. *
Lines
Written on the prapofed benefit 0/ Mrs.
Whitiock, in the Mourning Bride,
June nth, 1794.
1-R.OM Albion's Isle when genius take its
flight,
Its ever fjre on these b!eft coasts to light,
Whether by parly or by fancy driven, .
Here lure jt finds an ever foftring Heaven
Here firft :t breathes invigorating air
And l.arns to do whatever man ihould dare,
Hei*e among Freemen lifts its manly voice
Fearless of ill where all the world rejoice
Here Priestley finds the reft he fought in
vain,
And W hitlock meets applauding crowds
again !
In these blest ftiades no lords or despots
sway
But sons of Freedom their own law! obey,
Distress of course is to the land unknown
And guardian science marks it for her own ;
No sorrOws here obtrude upon the eye,
But such as fancy may perchance supply ;
Woes such as these that penetrate the heart
When Whitlock ftr.kes it in fond Zara's
part!
Oh long be acting such 4s hers a'low'd,
Its full effedt upon tb' admiring crowd,
To wealth and peace and plenty let it join,
What e'er can foften, meliorate, refine.
Mean while for her still may it smooth the
way,
That yet remains of variegated day.
Till filters form'd such different worlds to
pleafc,
Alike ftiall charm on either fide the seas;
Of jarring nations, form the mutual care,
And Whitlock here succeed as Siddons
there! S.
The American .Daily Advertiferof this
morning fays, " We hear from lcfpe&ahk
authority, that Col. Simcoe has returned
to Niagara."—lt is reported that Gov.
Simcoe has published a declaration to the
Indians, informing therti that there iB
peace between Great Britain and the
United States ; and advifcs them to pursue
a pacific line of conduct—Time will ai
certain the truth of these reports.
From a Bajlon paprr.
We hear that the celebrated Genet,
and the present French Minifler are now
on the moll friendly terms.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
davs
Brig Newton, Decofta, St. Croix, 20
A&ive, Welsh, Charleston, 10
Schr. L'Gonfalla, De Cruz, St. Übes, 53
Betsey, Eldridge, N. Carolina, n
Elfey, Walker, Virginia, 7
Sloop Poily, Migget, N. Carolina, 16
Sea Flower, Viana, St. Thomas, 20
Nancy, Denike, Virginia, 7
Captain WeMh from Charledon informs,
that iq French privateers were fitted out
there. He saw a fe;v days ago coming
into the Capes, from 25 to 30 fail, among
which the Brig Mercury, Capt. King
from St. Croix, which was boaidcd by
an English (hip of 16 guns.
Arrived at New.Tori.
Ship Pcwhatan, Reddick, Hull
Brig George, Prowfe Botirdeaux
Nofuingavae, —■—, Madeira
Doam Pavo, Gomez, St. Übes
Sch'r Hope, Stanwood, Wilmington
Fortitude, Jones
Hannah, Allen, George-Town
Lively, Taylor, Halifax,
(with the English April mail.
Slocp Catliarine, Coffin, St. Thomas's
Riling Sun, Nichols, Barhadocs
Planter, Carpenter, . Edenton
Brig Sally, Smith, St. Kirts
Sch'r Washington, Raymond, Antigua
Betsy, Gilbert, Jamaica
Sally, Huwland, do.
Sarah and Lucretia, White, Paulk
(land Islands
Jereinie
Sloop Friendfliip, Price,
For 3aie or Charter,
MARGARET,
(Lying a * Mufley's wharf
"ear Chefnut Itreet)
HAS made only one vnyagfe , i s , staunch
w ell fitted veiTel, a irl will carry about
barrels, or 14,010 bu(h;ls of grain—'
Apply to
wharton & Lewis.
i
yune to
For AMSTERDAM,
Gardner Hammond.
Matter.
ro fail with all convenient fp.ed, Uv-
H two thirds or her cutg , a re a dv en:aß
in 'ft " r J 6 ' 8 !' 1 or pa " a f? e a pply to raiti
S ; c ;™ f ta , d , h!
JOHN DONNALDSON.
June 10.
SCHUYLKILL^
T , V r^» c " Knox, Mailer.
■ fj at Morton's w!iarf, and to fail
a ew .lay,. She is a new veff I, ra'cu
t r ° ac ( . omino ' la ' e pdflengei s, and will
si ; °"' e For te-m, of«-hich or
pauage, apply toCnp. a i n Knox, or
WHARTON £s" GREEVSS.
June io 6f
Nicholas biehl,
Attorney at Laii> t
INFORMS his friends and the Public;
thai he has o ( fcrfed an t)FFICE for the sale
•rid P-rchifc ~f Re.i fiftates at No. f 9 ,
outh Fourth street, where he will thnnk
tuiiy receive tbrir commands. He alf»
oravi D:ed», Mortgages, and other Writ
ing«:.
June 10
NEW THEATRE.
Mrs. Whit lock's Night.
TO-MORROW evening,
June io.
Witt be Presented,
A, TRAGEDY, called the
Mounting Bride.
Manuel, Mr. Whitlock
Ofmyn, Mr. Fennell
Gonzalez, Mr, Gretn
Garcia, Mr. Wignell
Mr. Cleveland
Perez, Mr. Francis
Selim, Mr. Haiwocd
Alonzo, Mr. Warreil
Almeria, Mrs. Morris
Zara, Mrs Whit lock
Leonora, Mrs Francis
In Ast the firft,
The Triumphal Entry rf Manuel,
and Procefiion of Zara into Grenada.
End of the Play, The PASSIONS, an
Ode, by Colling will be here recited by
Mrs Whitlock.
End of the Tragedy, ,
A Scots Pqftoral Dante,
(Compof'd by Mr. •Francrg)call'd Ths
CALEDONIAN FROLIC.
In which will be introduced a Highland
R'tl-—By Mr. Francis, Mils Willems,
and Mrs De Marque.
To which will be added,.
A Comedy in two Aits, -called
Three Weeks after Marriage-
OR,
What we must all ccrce to.
Sir Charles Racket. Mr CbaJmrrj
Drugget, Mr. 2ules
Lovelace, Mr. Mo' C.on
Woodley, Mr Cleveland
Servant, Mr. F. Darky
Lady Racket, Mrs Whitlock
Mrs Drugget, Mrs RowfU
Nancy, Mrs Francis
Dimity, Mrs Shaw
Tickets to be bad of Mrs Whitlock, at'
No. i, S. Sixth Street, corner of Minor.
Street—at the tifual places, and of Mr.
Franklin at the Theatre. Where places
may be taken.
On Friday the Tragedy of JULIA :
Or, The ITALIAN LOVER—with
Entertainment*—For the Benefit of Mr.
FINCH.
Mr. and Mrs FRANCIS'S Might will
lie <>n Monday.
Places in the 3oxes to be taken at the Box-
Office of the Theatre, at any hour from nine
in the morning till three o'clock in the after
no n, on the day of performance.
Tickets to he had at the office near tbe
Theatre, at the ccrner cf Sixth street, and
at Carr & Co's Musical Repository, No. 123,
Maikef itieet.
jun.
tuthbfstf*
<3
f>nadelphla, March, i i 794-
fUST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHEW CAREY,
No. I 18, Market peet,
1 HE FIRST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography :
OR. A
Geographical, Hijlorical, ana
Commercial Grammar;
And pfefcnt Itare of the levera!
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAINING,
1. Th<" figures, motion', and diftanccs o
the planets, accoiding to the Newtonian lyf
teia and the latest obfervatisns. ,
2. A zensral view of (the earth,confidered
as a plai)et;wlth fe»eralj«Feful geographica
defi lirions and problems.
3 The gand divisions of the gobe int
land and water, continents and islands. ]
4. The situation and extent oi empires,
kingdoms,dates, provinces a"d .
5. Their climates, air, foil, vege abl ,
productions, metals, minerals, natural curi-
Ofities, teas, rivers, bays, capes, prom >ntoi its,
aud lakes. .
6. The birds and beasts peculiar to each
° 7. Observations on the changes that have
bee., anv where observed upon the face ot
nature since the most periods of nil
tory.
8. The history and origin of nations,
thei< forms tit government, religion, !aw '»
revenues,taxes,naval and nulita. y ftieugt
9 The genius, manners, customs, and
habits of the people. .
10. Their language,learning,aft;, icien
ces, manufactures, and commerce.
11. The chief ci'ies, ftruftureS, ruins,
and artificial curinfities
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings,
and distances oifprincipal places fromi'ni.a
delphia.
To u<hich are added.
1. A Geographical Index, with the
names and places alphabetically arran S ed.
2. A Table of the Coins of all nations,
and their value yi dollars and cents.
3. A Chronological Table of remarka
ble events, from the creation to the prelent
11111 jjy WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Astronomical Part corrected by
D . Rittenhouse.
To which have been added,
The late Discoveries ot'Dr. Herschell,
and other eminent Astronomers.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrected, Impioved, and greatly Enlar
ged.
The firft volume contains twenty-one
Mips end Chatts, be fides two Agronomical
Plates, viz. ,
i. TVS:-»p of the world. 2. Chart of the
worle 3- Europe* 4. Asia. 5- Africa. 6.
South America. 7- Cook'* difcoveiies.
8. C.u :iics round the north Pole. 9
Sweden, Denmark, and Norway, so. Se
ven United Provinces. 11. Austrian,
French and Dutch Netherlands. 12. Gei
many. 13. Seat of war in France. 14.
France divided into depaitments. 15.
Switzerland. :6. Italy, Sicily, and Sar
dinia. 17« Spain and Portugal. *8.
Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19- I re *
land. 20 Weft-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22.
Ar miliary sphere. 2%. Copernican system.
With the fecpnd volume, which is now
in the press, will be given the following
Maps :
1. lluflia in Europe and Asia.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
5. China.
6. Htitdoftan.
7. United States.
8. Britifli America.
9. State of New-Hampfliire.
10. State ot Massachusetts.
11. State of Connecticut.
j 2. State of Rhode Island.
13. State of New-York.
i 4« Sta*e of New-Jersey.
15. State of Pennsylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
20. State of North-Carolina.
2t. Tenneflee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23* State of Georgia.
TERMS.
1. This work will btf compriled in two
volumes.
2. Subfcribcrs pay for the present volume
. ondelivery, fix dollars, and the price of
biading, (56 cents for boards.)
.3. They may receive the fuc<eeding vo
lumein twenty-four weekly numbers, at
a quarter dollar each, or else, when fi
niihed, at the fame price as the firft.
4. The subscription wi'l be raised 011 the
firft day of June i794i to fourteen dol
lars, exclusive of binding.
5. Should any copies remain for sale after
the completion of the work, they will be
fold at sixteen dollars, and the price of
binding.
6. The names of the subscribers will be
published as patrons of American litera
ture, arts, and sciences.
It is wholly unneceiTary to expatiate on
the advantage,to American readers, that
this edirion poCefTes, over every imported
edition of any system of Geog aphy extant.
The addit tion of mapsoftht several testa ,
procured a very great exp. nfe, and from
the best materials that are attainable,
speaks fuel, full con vision on «hhfu^«
that it would be difrefpeft re quiiUe
c^s understanding to Inppofe it r^"' 1
to enter into a detail a» .rgm£,««
prove its Superiority. In no tall
have fuci maps baenever which
The emendation sand additions
are made in thl s work,are,nnume
occur in every page. The public are r
ferred to the preface tor a flig
,Jf Gror of them-
The publiftier takes the? pre fen t . g
tunity of returning his most sincere t
to those refprflable characters w I
favored hini with documents for .mpr
ng the mapiof several of the ftates_ H
requeftsa co.it! nuance of Ueu k.ndnefs,
and hope, that fuel, public fp.nted citixen
as are pofleffedoffimitov documents, wiil
favor him with theiraffiltance in perfett
incr his undertaking- ■--.•with
The extraordinary encourngeme
which he has been favored, has excited
in his breuft .he warm, ft fentmienti, ol gra
titude—sentiments which time will nQi: -
face. He pledges himleli to the citizen
of the United States, to fpaie
nor expense to -enrier the prcfer.t edition
of Guthrie's Geography improved, delev
i.ig of their patronage. wa
Joseph Clark,
ARi HlTfcX I AT ANNAPOLIS,
Proposes to publijb, by subscription,
POLYMATHY ;
O R
The American Builder.
A Work calculated equally to edify and en
tertain the Gentleman, Farmer.Sur
veyor, Builder Sc Mechanic.
THIS work will contain various opinions
of the belt writeis on Architefiurc, Arts,
and Science ; together with experiments, and
accurate notes of obfetvation, by ihe mthor;
bong thi refill! of tnir'.y years lludy and ex
penence in his proftffion.
Ii will alio contain an alphabetical account
of the quality and value of the various kinds
of materials, and numerous species of labor,
exp nded on building.
Exemplifications, toafcertain the quanti
ties of materials and labor neccffary 10 com
plete, almost, every part in a building, of
whatever dimensions.
An account and explana'ion of all the
terms and phrafts, used in ancient and mo
dern archiiefcfuie and building.
To persons inclined to build, it will aff>rd
an opportunity of regulating their plans with
in ihecompafs of their finances, and prepare
tliCtn to prevent impofit'ons Irom tricking
venders of materials, and extorMonaie work-
men—To Mechanics, who cannot, for want
of expc ience, calculate the value of their
relpe&ive labour, and materials expended in
their particular branches of building, this
work will afford an opportunity to ellimate
wnh facility and accuracy, any done or' in
tended to be done, either in tne aggregate or
the minutiae.
will contain r»any eurious and valuable |
recipes to make fine and coaHe varni(hes,fo*
prelervmg roofs ol houses, barns, palings,
troughs, pipe*, &c. Pecipes to makevati
ous glues and cements ; recipcs to make com
positions for elegant, or minute ornaments,
and enrichments for oufide or inside com
partments : recipes to make compofiuon. lor
ligures and inc» uftatiors—to endure the
wtather in any afpetl ; recipes-to make stuc
co compositions, for floors, maU-houfcs, dif
tillerics, hearths, linings for cisterns, See.
Tables to afcrrtain the scantling ol dihnent
species of timber neceirary to perform their
refpeftive fun&ions, in pioportion to their
various : Tables toafcertain the
dimensions of the various apenions introdu
ced in different edifices, and doors, windows,
chimnies, sky-lights, Itair-cafes, &c. 'n pro
tion to their different uses and intentions—
whether for beauty or utility : A concise
mode to take, and square the dimensions of
all kinds of artificer's work belonging to
buildings, and to ascertain the cubical or fu
perficial contents thereof: Obfervalions of
the doctrine of echo and found : A diflerta
tion on the philosophy, dottrine, and con
ftru&ion of chimnies, to void or emit the
smoke. Proportions and recipes to cure
smoky chimnies : Observations on the ihfta_
bility of the edifices heietofore, generally,
cre&ed in America : Suggestions of rtiod< s 10
pursue in buildings here, that will, without
additional expence, tend more to their dura
bility than rhofe heretofore, commonly, con
ftrtifted : Dcfcriptions and proportions of
the general and particular members of vari
ous orders in Architcflure, viz. the Tuscan,
Doric, lonic, Corinthian, Composite, Chi
nese, Attic, Cargatic, Arabesque, Moresque,
Grotc fque, Saracenic, Rustic, Antique, Anti
quo-Mod<rn, Gothic, and Britannic : Man.y
curious historical accounts of various won
derful buildings in different parts of the '
world : Many curious and original accounts !
and eulogiums on Free Malonry.
This work will be printed in two octavo
volumes, each tr» contain upwards of 400
pages, on fine paper of elegant letter piefs :
The price to fubfciibers, in boards, five
dollars; two and a half dollars to
be paid on the delivery of the firft, and two
and a half dollars on the delivery of the
second volume. Mr. Clark assures the public,
that he will literally perform all that lie hath
set forth in these proposals.
Gentlemen inclined to promote this woik,
by fubfcribin<r thereto, are rcquefled to write,
poll paid, to Mr. Joseph Clark, at Ann..polis v
authorising him to annex then names to the
fubfcripiion lift.
The Trintersin the Uni'fi S ater, are so
licited to give propria 13, oca li anal y,
a place in their pjpeis.
The following fe&ion
r h i aw f or , ftablilhii'g an Hcalth-Otficc,
&c . pa (Ted the last fcffionofthiLegi
„ rt.publilhcd lor the information °
COnC " M % m . ALLEN, Health-Officrr,
for the port ol Philadelphia, No- 21 >
Key's alley.
June 2, 1794-
gp C - AND be it further ena£M by the
anthority aforefaid, That every m* « b£
captain of any th.p or vessel coming tiora
vend the sea (veffeU aaually employed in th
coasting trade of the United State, excepted)
and bound to any port or pl>« 'fe hit
iurifdiaioo of Pcnnfvlvama, 'ball cau
(hip or vessel to be brought to * nchor '
oiherwife flayed in the dream ol l.« •>*«
Delaware. oppofiie to the health-
State-island KSfcH, and there to =
until he (hall have duly obtained a cert hcate
or bi'lo) health from the resident physician,
in the manner tod upon the tens heremi Be
fore dirt-fed : and ' f > p ev,<„,fly to "bta n
ing tuch certificate or bill oi hca i i> any
n-.ftw or captain (hall fuffer hi* «h.p or vessel
to approach nearer than the said healt.i-»mce
lo the city of Philadelphia, or (ball land, or
raufe or fuffer to be landed, or brought on
fhorr, at port or place within this com
monwealth, or at any other port or place,
with the intent to be conveyed into this com
monwealth, ato peifon or peif> ns, or any
goods, wares 01 fcs»fhandiz< ; or l) alter re
ceiving such certtfi ate or bill of health, he
In a |l ncglt6 or refute to deliver the lame to
the health-offirer agreeably to the direttlous
ot this ast, such maftir or captain ihd.i for
feit and pav, for each and every iucU onenee,
the lum of'five hundrrd dollars to be recover
ed and appropriated as hereinafter provided
and directed , and the captain or matter of
each and < very ship or vessel, as soon as the
fame is b ought to anchor, orotheiwiu stayed
as afosefaid, (hall fen.f a faie and commodious
boat to brin;', the resident physician "«i board
of his ship or v; (Tel, and (hall in like man
ner convey him hack to the health-office
after he h s concluded his official examina
tion; and while he is making such examina
tion,or in cafc oi any (nbfequent examination
by the health-officer and conlultmg phyfici.n,
as the caff may be, each and every part of the
(hip or vessel, and (hall piefcnt to his view
r-.ch and every peifon on boatd thereof, and
{'hall also true and fdiiffa&ory answers make
to all such questions as the resident physician
at the time of examination, or the health offi
cer at the time ot delivering the certificate, or j
bill ot health, in the city of Philadelphia, or
at the time of examination to be had by the
health-officer together, with the confuting
phyfiician (hall' (k telaiive to ih« health o' any
port or place trom which the Ihip or vessel
failed, or has since touched at, the number of
persons on board whenthf (hip or veffVl en- I
ter d on her voyage, the number ol perf >ns
that have (ince been landed or taken on
boaid, and when or where refpc&ivcly, what
persons on board,if a*iy have bien during the
voyage, or (hall at any time ol examination,
be infe&ed with any pestilential or contagi
ous dif afe, whatpeiftfn belonging to the (hip
or vessel, if any died during the voyage, and
of what disease, nd what is the present (late
and condition of the persons on board with
refpeft to their hcalih and dilcafes ; and it
any captain or mallvf of any (hip or vellel
(hdHre ulc to exoofc the fame as aforefaid to
the search and examination of the resident
physician, or of the health-officer and confnlt
ing physician, as the cafe may be ; or if, hav
ing on boaid his (hip or vifffl any such per
son or persons, he (hall conceal the fame, or
if in anv manner vvhatfoevrr he (hall knowing
ly dcceive or attempt to deceive the pioper
officers aforefaid in his answers to their offici
al enquiries, such captain or matter, for each
and every such offence, (hall forfeit and pay
the sum of five hundred dollais, to be re
covered and appropriated as hereinafter pro
vided and <!ire£tcd ; and wherever the refi
dent physician, or« confuting physician, as
the cafc may be, fl»i»ll direfct any per son o
perfons, or any goods, wares or merchandize
to be landed at the healtb-offv ', cr any fh;p
or veff, 1 to be detained op polite thereto, and
and there to be fmoaked, cleansed and puri
fied, the captain of the (hip or vessel (hall in
all rtfpe&s conform to such dire&ions,
(hall at the prop* r cost and chaige of his em
ployers carry the fame into effed within such
reasonable time as the resident physician, or
phyfi:iin, as the c.fc may be, ffii'l
allow and prcfcribe ; and if any mailer or j
captain (hall refufe or negledt*to conform to j
these f.iid oire&ions, and to cany the fwnie
into effect as aforefaid, according to the ref
pcftive objects thereo', he fhail forfeit and
pay the sum of five hundred dollars tor each
and every offence, to be lccovered and appio
priated as is hereinafter piovide d and duel
ed.
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Hovfes or Public
Offices,
Two brick 3 flory Houses,
HAVING 6 f coin s '»» efti.il, wnb fire places
beside garre's,fiiuate 011 the south wrileriy fide
of Dock street, between Pear and Walnut
ftrects. Enquire of
BENJAMIN IV. MORRIS.
April 17. luth&sil
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglhead* and in cases of 50 boulcs eacl
also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter casks.
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. m, South frout llicct.
J»n- «i >794- dtf
THE office of the President and Direfto--»
nf the Insurance Compact of Nojtk
AmsrlCa, is removed to No. 107, Soutli
Front ftreer, being the foutli eall comer of
Front and Walnut ll tee is.
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Hilts of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of Nort/x
several of which have appeared in circulation
within a few days pajl; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine bills, but may
be dijtinguijhed by the following
MARKS.
Fife Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
Untied States.
ALL that have appeared bars the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Papj?r is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is fmalier
tf.an the M* and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended f» oni the top of the (),
to touch the top of the M wirblii extend con.
fiderably above t»6 range ot ihe whole word.
In the word United the letters are n&rrow
erand closer together than th« reft o? the bill
The i and fin the word promiie are not
parallel, the f inclining much in ore forward
I than the i.
The engraving is badly cxecu<od,?be ftiokes
of all the Letters are stronger and the dev. e
in the margin particularly is much coaifcr and
appears darker tiian in the tiue bills. Some
ot the counterfeit's bear date in 1791—Where
as th® Batik was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were illued in
jhat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America,
ALL that have appeared have ihe letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the counterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above defenbed ; the engraving is bcttei £xe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap.
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled Ikies through the word Ttcen.
t\y in the body ot ihe bill, are »n number thir
teen in the geniiiue b lis, and but twelve in
the countcifeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in tire Five Dollar Btlis as delcr ibed ?>
bove, the 0 being lets than the m, and others
following.
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bibs the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent-in the word Twcnt)*, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the woul, the 7 w and 'hey go
ing below them. •
The signature ] N'xon, has thf appear
ance ot tuing written with Lmb-tlack and
oil, and jtiifers Irom other inks used in
printing the bills and tl»e c.iHiitr's signature.
Ii h supposed iii.-te forae'rw * were committed
in lomcot uv Southern ••>taics, a I cou-i
---terfeiis thai h»vr appeared, h ?\e come Imm
thence, and two perions have been apr ehend
ed in Virginia, on suspicion oi being the author
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
wili be paid to any Ferton or Prridns who lhail
discover and prosecute 10 conviction the fcveial
offenders ot the following liefrnption* or an Y
ot them. viz.
The petfon or pcrfons, who tnJftur?.auTCd
the paper on which the B'lls are prtmed.
The person or pcilons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
Every pertuii who ha* acted as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing Hie laid oilis.
Philadelphia, Match 28, a 794
April iz, 1794»
Other counterfeit bills
of the ol the United States have appeared
in ci. c ui.itn)!>.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
ter li.
They may br distinguished from the genu
ine by the to! lowing Ml AUKS :
The p&pf r of : iie counterfeits is of a move
tend > texture and giofley lurlace than the
genuine, and thc;e is no water ftoark in them*
The letter C. in the word Cashier, in »he
true bills is fti marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, 'he whole letterMs a fine hair
stroke, evidently, i. an unfinifned state. 1 lie
letter a in the wo id demand, is badly formed
and the whole word iii done, ahd there is no
comma at tie end of it, as there is in tbe
genuine bills.
The marginal device, is much daiker i»
the fa Me, than in the genuine bills owing to
the Ih.ide strokes being cr-.irfer, much nearer
together and c©nVequt?i»ti'y inuch more nu
[ mer.ou*. This difference ft < ikes'ihe eye at fir ft
view.
The fame n-iva-d of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will bs jrjid t'ui appr«rhencii"g,«
prot'eruting tu ipiiviftioii tl.e several abo»e
detcrilKfJ Oilewlr-rs in reljiect to this, 8 s IP
tile lalt tlel'crib-'tl hi I 'Ai s)
THOMAS WILLING, P.c&atyt
„l flu- li-ink Uniifd &<«»•
JOHN NIXON, Pi-.fidcntolthf
BJ'ik hi N.vtih America.
By Hitler ?;i (he C<iinnii:icc» nf '
!>• ft'vf liomts.
PHILADELPHIA:
Printed bv JOHN FENNO, No. 3»
South Fourth-Street.
:'' ' "