A
I
EVENING ~ A D V E
[No. 107 of Vol. V.]
For Amsterdam,
The new fact-failing, coppcr
.& r bottomed SHU'
Mil ADRIAN A,
n>«i "IE If. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in-'
tanded for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient fpced. For freight orpafTage,
having excellent accommodation';, apply on
board at Waliv.it street wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Passengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794. dtf
For Norfolk & Fredericksburgb,
tttle Sally..
John Earl, Matter.
A itaunci good vcfiel, will fail in a fe\v
days, for freight'or p (Tage, apply to the
mailer on board at Chefhut street wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONY SON.
March 31. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
A NDROMACUE.
IS a {tout good veffVl, about two years oJd,
burthen 232 ton«, has only roadcj three voy
ages, and ltiay be eot to Tea at a final) ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
WHARTON iff LEWIS.
• dtf
March 2i
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN ane 'Kilile/ituation, —atfo a Country Seat
wiihin 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
KT-4J inw •rf'tV.Ki "tW
Houle is not exceeded byman.y in the vicinity
of the city, in lize, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
January, aj
7bt Profits arifingfrom the foil owing publi
cation are for the benefit of the Poor.
Just published, printed by R. Aitkcn and
Son, and fold by J. Crukfhank, W. Young
T. Dobfon, and the other Booksellers,
MINUTES
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed on the 14th September 1 793. by
the Citizens of Philadelphia, the Northern
Liberties, and the.Diftrift of South war k,
to attend to and alleviate the (offerings of
tbe aiHi&ec! with the Malignant Fever, pre
valent, 'n the City and it* vicinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
A lift of perCbns adm tted into the Hospi
tal a«t Bufli hill, (hewing the times of their
admifljon, death and discharge.
Number of Honfes, Deaths, &c. in the
refpeitive ftceets, alleys, and courts in the
city of Philadelphia, Northern Liberties; and
Diftr.ift of Southwa'k.
A lift of the Interments in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia, Northern
Liberties, and D ftrift of Souihwark, with a
meteorological account of the weather.
A summary of donations in calh ajid provi
(ions, received from sundry persons and pla
ces, for the us.> of the poor and affii&ed.
April 2. d3w
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatritk,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A fc-vj baits Holland Duck,
Ditto Qznaburgi,
Holland Sheeting, ,
,"Juniper Berries,
Glass JVare, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious sizes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and fiat bars,
Hair Ribband, Ko. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c. &c.
FOR. SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
IhmildappTication be made-within a few days ;
other wife fie will take freight for Amfler
dam.
March I, 1794.
' ' * -TJ ' "
m&th—tf
** . A
*-<" iV-- •
d—tf
Wednesday, April 16, 1794.
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills df the Bank of 'North America,
federal of which hdve appeared in circulation
'within a few days pajl; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be diflirtguifhed by thi fill ending
MARK- S.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United Slates.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
fof their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters o* that word,
ft) that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M would extend con
ficlsrably above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than th« reft of the bill
The i and fin the word promile are not
parallel, the/inclining much more forward
than the t. X
The engraving is ftrokts
of all the Letters are ftrongfcr and the device
in the ftiargin particular.)f ismuch coaricr and
appears darker than in the true bills- Some
of the counterfeits bear date in i 791— Where
as the Bank was not 'iff operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were issued in
that year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. lor their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the Five Dollar Note.s
above de fen bed j the engraving is bcite< exe
ucted, and they approach neaier to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen-
in the body 6f the biH, are in number thir
teen in tHe genuine b lis, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar B lis as defer ibed a
bove, the o being less than the to, and other*
fallowing. . i„ vLI iX* J "Ji'.m
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is weli
defined.
The lettersY/i* in the word Twenty, to the
at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and they go
ing below them.
The Signature J. Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamp black and
oil, and differs from the other inks used in
s and the cafllier's fienatuie.
printing the bw— _ i»*e
It is supposed thcfe forgeries were commute*
in fomc ot the Southern States, ab all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come Irom
thence, and two persons have been apprehend
ed in Virginia, on suspicion of being the authors
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Person or Persons who lhall
discover and profccuie to conviction the several
offenders of the following deferiptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufattured
the paper on which the Bills are printed.
The person or persons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, ©f the bills.
Every person who has acted as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and'utter
tng the said bills. ;
THOMAS WILLING, PieGdeot
of the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Re
peftive Boards.
PhiladeVphia, March 28, 1794. dtf.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfccads and in cases of 50 bottles each*
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine:
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter cafics,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. tit, South Front Itreet.
Jan. 2, 1794, dtf
for sale,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. n!
Mai ket-Street,
An Essay on Slavery,
Designed to exhibit in a new point ol vietjv
its effefls on morals, Indujlry, and the peace of
society. Some iafts and calculations are offerer
to prove the labor of freemen to be much mor
produaive than that ot Jlaves ; that countries ar
rich, powerful and happy, ip proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their <i w,
labor ; and hence the ni'ceflary conclusion, Ihi
slavery is impolitic as well as unjiijh
P*ICE 25 Cents/ dtf
JVruary Is.
A N
IMPORTED
In the Brig George and Harriot, from
Havre de Grace,
and for sale bj
Louis OJmont, \
A PERFECT
AffiSrtment of Hanging Paper,
high coloured and plain.
Y/hire (ilk Stockings, high drefled and put
up K'iglifh fVlhioii.
Thjt liandfonxeft artificial Flowers and Fea
therj^
Souie Looking Glass Plates to be fold by the
cafe.
A few hampers of Champaigne wine fix
years old. .>
—#
■An elegant parcel of
Bearflcin MulTs,
A.id very beautiful Silk Cloaks, which 01
account of the season will be fold low, and at
a long credit. * '•
LIKEWISE
4 2 pipes Madeira wine,
and a few ca&s of Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns
»w> %J
In a few Days,
He twill have for sale,
-A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Laces,
.eghora hats, fans and cambricks, claret in
fafe«j a quantity of window glals well sort
ed of ali sizes, and a few pair of remarkable
Lcoking Glafles framed, all arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
March 22. dtf
In the Name of the French
Republic.
I VERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
-J the Neutrality of the United States.
All-Munmiffions or authorizations tending to
to be returned to the Agenfs of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and ind-'vifible
(March 6th, 1794, o. s.), r
The Minister Plenipotentiary of the French "
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of newspapers within the 1
United States, are requelled to republilh the I
foregoing notice. d j
Pennsylvania Hospital,
4th Month, Jth 1794-
The Contributors are desired
to attend the Election, to be held at the
HdspiTal on the sth day of* the.sth Month
nexr,at 3 o'clock in-the afternoon; to choose
twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for
he ensuing year:
By order of a board of Managers.
Samuel Coates, clerk.
• J'
FOktifGN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON.
Accounts from Corsica, mention that
gen. Paoli had given battle to the French
between Monticello, Carfifao, and Pi&ral
ba, in which Ue killed many, and took a
great number of prifonere. Having been
informed that the French treated ill those
who fell into their hands, he ordered that
ten of the French prisoners (hould be hang
ec\, but not by the hands of the conjmon
executioner, for that they (hould hang
one another, and the survivor (hould be
(Viot, which was executed at Corte on the
20th of December.
The celebrated jewels of the late Ma
dame du Barre, are, at this time, in the
fafe custody of Meflrs. Hammerfley and
Morland.
A correspondent begs leave to observe,
that if Madame du Barry left any property
in this country, it (hould be recommend
ed to the Attorney-General to enquire af
ter it ; and a<ks, might it not be applied
with equal humanity and propriety to the
relief of the French emigrants at least, if
not to the relief of the public diftrefles of
this conntry.
It has- been said, that the above lady
was a natural child of a native of Great
Britain.
R T T S E R.
ALSO
[Whole No. 566.]
UNITED STATES.
NEW-YORK, April n.
C ommunication.
It is remarked by Jasper Wilson, in his
excellent letter to Mr. Pitt,that the great
iuftrument of success of the Jacobins in
France has been the suspicion they con
stantly excited, that every friend of peace
and subordination was conne&ed with the
foreign enemies that are invading France."
In the fame manner "the friends of peace
in Great Britain, were denounced as
leagued with foreign invaders. This was
the reel secret ofMeffrs. Reeves, Burke,&
Co. for levelling the levellers, " Mr. Fox
and the oppofitiof), who attempted to keep
England from engaging in a war against
France, " The nation was panic-struck,
apprehension and credulity go hand in
hand, " and it was thus the English nation
was united against France. '
In America the fame instrument has
been employed with similar success. The
most effe&ual means employed by the late
French Minister to raise an alarm here,
and make this country engage iti a war
with I' ranee, was, a suspicion he very in
duitrioufly excited that the friends of peace
end the federal government were under
British influence.
He openly declared our executive offi
cers to be bribed with British gold. In
this he was indiscreet—the charge was too
gross—his best friends would not believe
it, and criedJhame upon him. Such afpe
cific charge required proof for support—
this therefore wafs not inlilted on—but the
general suspicion that federal men were at
tached to Great Britain, Were tones, arif
ocrats and friends to monarchy, required
10 proof; it was only to forcad it among
:ommon people who deal much in name)
imHrttlrttrprxnft j arid render all modc
ate men odious by-unmet which have no
neaning or are not underllood. The bait
•vas swallowed by a party ; and certain
:reate prejudice and hatred against the
upportets of our government. To all
such charges the belt answer is, that there
:s not one syllable of truth in these charges
igamfl federal men, and that the British
lave as little influence in the politics of
his country, as the Chinese.
NEW-LONDON, April 10.
Tuesday evening arrived here from Lis
bon, the Swedilh snow Agneta Elizabeth,
Magnus Ofell, matter, who left there tile
12th of Feb . Capt. Griffin of Chatham
fold his veflel, and chartered this snow, in
which he came pafienger. No late news had
been received at Lisbon of the tranfaaions
that were taking place between the powers
at war ; three mails were due from England;
one arrived the day this veffi.l failed, but ho
thing of its contents had transpired previous
to her departure. — Capt. Griffin corrobo
rates the intelligence which We have before
received, that the Spanish court had propp
ed to the French nation, a cessation of hos
tilities during three months, to which the
la ter refufed to agree. Orders were pub
lilhed in Lilbon for the restoration of all
French property, which had been taken pos
session of by the Portuguese, in fix days af
ter the ifliiing of the decree, about the 10th
of February; which is almost a certain au
gury that there will be no \frar between the
two countries. It was there, expt&ed, that
in consequence of the conduit of G. Britain
towards this country, the United States would
declare war against that haughty power, capt; •
Griffin fays, that at the time of his failing,
there was not provisions fufficient in Lisbon
to answer the demand for more than eight
weeks* At Cadiz flogr was at 15 dollars,
and corn 7/6 per bushel.
Capt. Furnes, of Boston, was the last vtf
fel known at Lisbon to have been carried into
Algiers; certain information had been re
ceived of 21 fail of those pirates being at sea
on a cruize, when Capt. Ofell filed ; one
of them had beert 'spoken witli as' far north
ward as Oporto.—lt was believed at Lisbon, '
that the combined powers would not be able
to continue the war against France another
campaign.
* WANTED • *
AN APPRENTICE
To the Pointing Eufinef's, Enquire at this
Office.
J.
J
\ ' 'I . - -
Cutis re ft if the TJmted States*
G J %J
House of Jsj£r*fnlatiuM
Thursday, April 10.
Mr. Clark's prjtpojitiqii for flopping the
commercial iuttrcuurfe between the Uni
ted States and Great Britain under con-,
Jideration of the Committee of the -whole
—Air. Sherburne in the chair.
Mr. SEDGWICK's SPEECH,
(concluded.)
He.said he had yefterdav taken the li
berty to suggest to the committee certain
conltuuiioiial cohfiderations. The an
fwere which had been given had by no
Cleans been fatisfactory. It was incum
bent on gentlemen who had so frequently
warned us of the dnnger of uftirping
power—who had so frequently, and in
language so animated, charged us to avoid
grasping power by implication, and con
ltruction. It was incumbent on those gen
tlemen, would they preserve consistency
of character, clearly to demonftrate'tlve
authority which they a [Turned—that it
might not be supposed that their conduc
tion of the Constitution was a conveni
ent accommodation to the existing cir
cumstances.
It was not now a question whether the
people had made a wife or prudent dilli i
bution of the powers of their govern
ment. They had declared their will, and
that will we were bound by every confide
puion of honor and duty to cxecute. In
the inllrument under which we acted, they
had declared, that the President, under
ccrtain modifications should: be their or
gan to treat exclusively with foreign pow
ers. This authority thus exclusively dele
gated, include all the terms on which a
treaty could be formed. What was the
present meallire ? Prescribing the terms of
treaty, and reftrainiug the constitutional
power from treating on any other terms.
If the Legislature could prescribe those
terms in this instance, it may then pre
scribe all the terms in every instance ; and
of course contioul in all things the exer
cise of that power.
To this reasoning two answers have
been given, the one by a gemlcman from
Pinnfylvania (Mr. Smi-lie\ that the Le
gislature might make such a law, becaule
t+ie eXfCtitivi eolild repeal it. He rcajly
not comprehend the force of the
reasoning; he was gl.id however, he could
with perfect confidence contradidl the af
feru'on, which he was sure would be a ve
ry difgulting one to the people of Ameri
ca.—There was in fad, in no instance an
authority given to the executive, to repeal
a. ouiftitutional act of the legislature.—
The other answer was that given by a gen
tinman from Virginia, (Mr. Nicholas)
that there could be no objection to the
exercise of this power if it should be assent
ed to by the President and Senate—This
was still a more extraordinary and unfatis
factory anfwei than the other—it implied
that the President aitd Senate could make
grants of power to this House, not con
tained in the constitution. Tg this he
would answer, that all the powers which
the House could legally exercise were ex
prefTed in the instrument under which we
acted—that thoft powers could be neither
enlarged nor abridged by any rpan or body
of men on earth, but in the way pointed
out by the instrument itfelf.
Mr. Sedgwick said these considerations
he had expressed, without any previous
preparation as they occured to his mind.
Should gentlemen who viewed the fubjeft
in the light he did remain silent, he would
in the further progress of thismeafnre, he
pledge 1 himfelf, with more orderly ar
rangement, and he hoped with more per
spicuity, and force, address himfelf to the
consideration of this committee, or of the
Houfe.—lt would avail little to tell him
that his opposition would be unpopular
no man more than himfelf, wished the
good opinion of his countrymen, but no
peifonal inconvenience, no loss of fame or
popular affection, should ever inducc him
to fee his country threatened with evils
incalculable in number, and duration, with
out warning her of her danger—A country
which he loved, and which he might on
this occasion be permitted to fay, he bad
long served with honest fidelity, and with
out a single instance of fihiller or mere per
sonal regard.
For the Gazette of the Uustrd States.
OBSERVATIONS.
The present Is an age;of Paradoxes; as
well as of experiment and revolution
Republicans fay, that their form of civi)
is more propitious, ; thaii all
others, to the preservation of peace on
earth, (how truly is yet to be proved*)
yet republicans are'uiing every means that
fmixiiiitr, stimulated by wrath, can devise,
to plungeTßetrcouatEy into a war, without
employing previously any prudent means
to avoid it :—while others, who arc brand
ed as ariltociats, are as zealous in prefling
the healing expedients of negotiation.
The men, who spent many days to
prove, that we were not strong enough to
risque a few broadsides with the petty pi
rates of Algiers, and, therefore, declar
ed that the arming against them wasufelefs,
can hardly afford a few days for considera
tion, before they would have us rush irtto
a war with Great Britain, the greatest
naval power in the"world ; and before we
have a single veflel ready for the lea, tit
to engage a sloop of war.
Some men complain that the powers of
the executive are dangeroully great ; and
that the public creditors have had their
patriotism debauched by dealing too large
ly in national securities : yet these men
are exerting every nerve, to destroy a state
of peace, in which alone the Executive
(if there be any need of it) may easily
be circumferibed, and the public debt ex
tinguiflied ; and urge us to engage in a
war, whereby the debt wfll not only be
increased, but the powers of the execu
tive, which have excited such alarm, ne
cessarily be enlarged.
Those, who preach that liberty and e
quality are the common rights of all men,
endeavour to confine the most valuable
right of thinking and speaking to thtm
felves, and their alTociates in opinion
and to make it criminal to publish a dif
fering sentiment.
Those, who declare the warmest friend
fhip for the people of France, and wish
them all manner of ptofperity, are inces
santly encouraging the rulers of that peo
ple to proceed, to bury tliemfelves and
their country in one common ruin, rather
than receive a conllitutiofi, which at one
time, lately, had almost umverfal appro
bation ; and thereby put a Hop to the
dreadful havoc, and delolatipn, which are
pursuing them.
Thole, who polfefs a belief in the cbrif
tian Religion, as a necilfary revelation
from Gftdj are. to their utmoH, atkttirg
sceptics and at lit i Its in their attempts to
overturn the altars of that Deity, whom
themselves adore, and in exteiminating
their fellow believers.
O! Liberty, thou art a paradox, a
composition of paradoxes.
Foreign Intelligence.
NATIONAL CONVENTION, Jan. 8.
Letter from Lacofle and Baudot, reprefenta
tivcs of the people with the army of the
Rhine and the Moselle, dated Strafburgh,
January 3.
"We have been at Spires, citizen col
leagues, as we announced in our last. The
enemy fly with luch rapidity, that it is im
pofiible to overtake them ; but if the men
escaped, their magazines remain. The can
ons of Spires have left upwards of 100,000
pitchers of wine in their cellars, and the
granary was Hocked in adequate proportion.
The bilhop's houses were full of forage, bran
dy and all kinds of eatables. The moll
speedy measures are taken to convey all those
provisions to Landau. The metals which
l'erved to decorate or to compos.- the monu
ments of the cathedral, were also carried off,
the faints dillodged, 6000 wax tapers unpack
ed, feme ciboires and other initruments of
folly melted down, and the bells broke, all
to the greatest glory of the republic.
" The public chests of the city have been
delivered up to the paymaster-general j but
they haye been vilited so often that there
hardly remains any thing in them. The cus
tom-house, full of all kinds of merchandize,
deposited, as it were, in a place of.fafety, by
the French and foreign aristocrats. This
prize, worth one million, ftiall turn to the
profit of the defenders of the country. The
rich inhabitants of the palatinate have emi
grated : we treat them like the worthless
Frenchmen, whose people they have imita
ted. Our troops have advanced as far as
Neuftadt and Frankenthal.
" We do not reckon, in the enumeration
of the prizes, the small magazines of private
persons, which add however to the great
mass. Our chief attention is now turned
to fill the magazines of the republic at the
expence of the enemy.
" The elements agree with us in extermi
nating the traitors ; the Rhine has just fwal
lewed five hundred emigrants who fled from
Weiiicmbourg, to swell the broken army of
Conde.
" The municipal officers and the com
mandant of Lauterburg dared to demand hf
us an amnesty for those inhabitants of that
city who followedtheli.fc.mouß Auftriansin
their flight. We nnfv.ered by putting them
under arccft, and their conduit will be ex
amined in Inch a mariner 35 to convince the
traitors and eowlrds that they have nothing
to expert but death from the re lublic.
" P. S. This moment, dear colleagues,
we receive news of the greatfft importance.
The famous poll of Kaisers .Lautern is in
our power. Vive la Kepubliqut \"
" The enemy abandoned, at Leimerfhent,
thirty thousand cwts. of forage ; at Germen
heim, seventy tons of flour, fix thouland
sacks of oats, and fix thousand sacks of dried
vegetables; at Markftall, twelve thousand
sacks of oat 9; at Weiffembourg, fifteen
thousand muikets, a great number of sick
and dying wounded, whom they inhumanly
deprived of the small portion of the provi
sions they had deftributed among them, to
support for a few moments their feeble ex
igence ; at Lauterbourg, all kinds of ammu
nition, a great number of muikets, an im
mense magazine of gun-powder, and thirty
thousand blankets; under the glacis of Fort
Louis,, fixly waggons, with their horses be
fore them. The number of muikets picked
up in all parts, amounts to near thirty thou
sand.
From the London Gazette.
Whitehall, January 15.
This morning fir Sydney Smith and
Major Moncrief arrived at the office of
the right hon. Henry Dundas, his ma
■ jefty's principal Secretary of State for the
Home Department, with dispatches from
Vice-Admiral lord Hood and.Major-Ge
neral David Dundas, of which the fol
iowing is a copy.
Toulon, Dec. 18, 1793.
My Lord,
Agreeably to your Lorcuhip's order, I
proceeded with the swallow Tender, three
English and three Spanish gun boats, to
the Aifenal, and immediately began ma
king the neceflary preparations tor burn
ing the French Ihips and ltores therein.—
We found the Dock Gates wek iecured
by the judicious arrangements of the Go
vernor, altho' the Dock Yard people had
already lubftituted the three coloured coc
kade tor the white one. 1 did not think
it fafe to at.empt the iecuring of them,
confidermg, that contell of any kind,
would occupy our whole attention, and
prevent us trom accomplishing our pur
pose.
The Galley Slaves, to the (lumber of
as leafl "Oco, mewea tncmiclveT^eilous"" ~
fpettators or our operations: Their dii
pofition to oppose us was evident; a..d
being uncliaincd, which was luminal, ren
dered if neceflary to keep a watchful eye
on them on board the galley, by pointing
the guns of the Swallow lender and one
of the Gun Boats on them, in iuch a
manner as to enfUade the quay on which
they mult have landed to come to us, as
suring them, at the fame time, that no
harm ihould happen to them if they re
mained quiet. The enemy kept up a cross
fire of shot and /hells 011 the spot from
Malboul'quet, and the neighbouiing hills,
which contributed to keep the Galley
Slaves in lubjeftion, and operated in every
refpeft, favorably for us,, by keeping the
Republican party in the town within their
houses, while it occasioned little interrup
tion to our work of prepariug and placing
combustible matter in the different flore
houses, and an board the Ihips; such was
the (teadinefs of the few brave seamen I
had under my command. A great mul
titude of the enemy continued to draw
down the hill towards the Dock Yard
wall, and as the night closed in, they came
near enough to pour in an irregular tho'
quick fire of mufquetty on us from the'
Boulangerie, and of cannon from the
heights which overlook it.
We kept them at bay by discharges of
grape /hot from time to time, which pre
vented their coming so near as to discover
the infufficiency of our force to repel a
closer attack. A Gun Boat was itationed
to flank the wall on the outlide, and two
field pieces within agaialt the wicket ulu
ally frequented by the workmen, of whom
we were particularly apprehensive. A
bout eight o'clock I had the fatisfaftion
of feeing Lieut. Gore towing in the Vul
can firefhip. Capt. Hare, her command
er, placed her agreeably to my directions,
in a mod masterly manner, across the Tier
of men of war, and the additional force
of her guns and men diminished my ap
prehensions of the Galley Slaves rising on '
11s, as their manner and occasional tumul
tuous debates ceased entirely 011 her ap- ;
pearaace. The only noise heard among 1
them was the hammer knocking off their ;
fetters, which humanity forbade my op. \
poling, as they might thereby be more at" 1
liberty to save themselves 011 the conflagra- f
tion taking place,among them. In tliis
, fitiiation we continued to wait moll anxi
oiidy for the hour concerted with the Go
vernor for the inflamation of the Trains.
r l'!ie moment the signal was made, we
had the fatisfadlion too fee the flames rife
i(i every quarter. Lieutenaut Tupper
\Y»s charged with the burning of the .Ge
neral Magazines, the Pitch, Tar, Tallow'
and Oil Store-houfes,-and fucceeda) most
perfe&ly ; the Hemp Magazine was in
cluded in this blaze: Its being calm was
unfortunate Jo the spreading of the flames,
but 250 barrels of Tar divided among
the Deals and other timber, insured the
rapid ignition of that quarter which L ieo
tenant Tupper had undertaken. >
The M.iit-houfe was equa l/ well set on
fire by Lieut. Middle ton, of the Britannia,
Lieut. Pater, continued in a most daring
manner to brave the flames, in order to
:ompleat the work where the fire feemef 1
I was
to have caught imperfectly
ed to call them off, left his fe. ,iuld
become impracticable: his fituatiou was
the more perilous, as the enemy's fire re
doubled as soon as the amazing blaze of
light rendered us diflindl obje&sof their
aim. Lieutenant Ironmonger, of the
Royals, remained with the Guard at the
Gate till the lad, long after the Spanish
Guard was withdrawn, and was brought
fafcly off by Captain Edge, of the-Alert,
to whom I had confided the important ser
vice of closing our retreat and bringing off
our detached parties, which were laved 10
a n\an. 1 was sorry to find myfelf depriv
ed of the fuither services of Capt. Have :
He had performed that of placing his firr
fhip to admiration, but was blown into
the water, and scorched, by the ex.
plofinn of hei priming, when in the ast cf
putting the match to it. Lieutenant
Gore was affo much burnt, and I was con
iequently deprived of him also, which I re
gretted the rhore, from the recollection.of
his bravery and a&ivity in this warm ser
vice.
The guns of the sir.'ship going off on
both fides as they heated, in the dire&ion
that was given them, towards those Quar
ters from whence we were moil apprehen
sive of the enemy forcing t,heir way in u
oon us, checked their career, Theit
bouts and Republican Songs, which we
:ould hear d flluftiy, continued till they,
rsrweTl 3?omXctves, were in a maun i tliun- '
Itriiruck by li.e cxplofion of some ti.ouf
ihd barrels of Powder on board the liis
Fiigate, lyi'g in t.ie Inner Road, witltout
is, and wh en iiad been injudiciously set
ji! I r by the Spanish Boats, in going -oft,
niie d i,::>k, as ordered. The
onci -iio ofair, ..J thefhowerof fa ling
imbtr on fire* w s such asnearly to dellroy
he whole of u:. Lietitcnant Pater,, cf
he I'ei ribli, > thhis who'e Boat's/Crew,
learly per'i■ ed ; the boat was nearly blown
io pieces, but the men were picked up a
live. The Ui iion Gun Boat, which was
leareft to the Iris, fuffered confideiablv,
Mr. Young being killed, with three men,
and the vessel (haken to picces. I hsd
given it in charge to the Spaniih officers
to fire the (hips in the Baton before the
town, but they returned, and reported
that various obllacles had prevented their
entering it. We attempted it together,
as soon as we had compleated the business
in the Arsenal, bu.t were repulsed in our
attempt to cut the boom by repeated Vol
lies of Mufquetry from the Flag ship
and wall of the Battere'y Royale. The
cannon of this battery had been spiked by
thejudicious precaution takeuby the Go
vernor, previously to the evacuation of the
Town.
The failure of our attempt on the /hips
in the Bason before the town, owing to
the infuffiviency of our forces, made me
regret that the Spauifli gun boats had been
withdrawn from me to perform other fer-
vice. The-Adjutant Don Pedro Cotiel
la, Don Francisco Riguelme, and Dun
Francisco Trufello remained with me to
the last, and I feel bound to bear teftitr.o
ny of the zeal and activity witk which
they performed the molt eflential services
during the whole of the business, as far
as the infufficiency of their force allowed
being .reduced by the retreat of the
gfun boats, to a single Felucca, and a
mortar-boit which had expended its am
munition, but contained 30 men with cut
laflts.
We now proceeded to burn the Hero
and Thcmiftocle two Seventy four gun
(hips, laying in the inner road. Our ap
proach to them had hitheito been imprac
ticable in bo3ts as the French prisoners
who had been left in the bitter fliip were
still i.n poffeflioß of her, and had shewn adetermination to reiift oar attempt to
come on board. The scene of conflagra
tion around them, heightened by the late
trem'-udous explosion, had however a
v/akened their fears for their lives. Think
ing this to be the cafe, I addre'fed
cxpreffing my readiness to land tnem in a
place of°fafety, if they would submit ;
and they thankfully accepted the otter,
{hewing themselveS to be completely inti
midated, and very grateful for our humane
intentions towards them, in rtof attempt
ing to burn them with the llv.p. It was
necefTary to proceed with precaution, as
thsv were more numerous than onrfelves.
We at lenp-th completed their disem
barkation, and then set her on fire. On
this occasion I had nearly loft myvaluable
friend asd affitlant, Lieutenant Miller of
the Windsor Castle, who had staid so long
on board to insure the fire taking, that it
gained on him suddenly, and it was not
without being very much fcorrhed, and
the rifle of being fuffbeated, that we could
approach the '.hip to take him in. Ihe
loft to the service would have been very
"-.-eat, had we not fncceeded in our en
deavours to 'save him. Mr. Knight,
Midlhipman of tlie Windsor v_aflle, who
was ir, the boat with me, Chewed much
adlivity and address on this occalion, as
well as firmnefe throughout the day.
The explofioii of a fecoiid powder vef
fei, equally unexpected, and with a (hock
everi greater than the firit, again put us
in the mod imminent dangei of perilhing;
andwhcn.it is considered that we were
within thefphere of the falling timber,it is
next to miraculous that no one piece, of
the n»>iy which made the water' foam
r iund us, happened to touch either the
Swallow or the three boats with me.
Having now set fire to every thing
within our reach, exhausted our combulti
ble preparations and our strength to such
a degree that the men absolutely chopped
on the oari, we directed our course to
join the fleet, running the gauntlet under
a few ill-directed fflot from the forts of
Balaguier and Aigiiillctte, now occupied
by the enemy ; but foitunately without
loss of'any kind, we proceeded to the
place appointed for the embarkation of -
the troops, and took off as many as we
could carry. It would be injustice to those
whom [ have omitted to name,' for their J
lirft having been fj immediately under my
eye, if 1 did not acknowledge myfelf in
debted to them all for their extraordinary
exertions in the execution of this great
national objedt. The quickness with
wnich the inflamation" took effect, on my
fignnl, its extent and duration, are the
belt evidences that every officer and mau
was ready at his poll, and fin'n under most
perilous citcumltances—l therefore sub
join a lilt of the whole who were employ
ed on this service.
We can alcertain that the fire extended
to at least ten fail of the line, how much
further we-carinot fay. The loss of the
general magazine, and of the quantity of
pitch, tar, rolin, hemp, timber, cordage
and gunpowder, muftconfiderably impede
the equipment of the few ships that re
main. lam sorry to have been obliged to
leave any, bnt I hope your Lord/hip will
be fatislied that we did as much as our cir
cumscribed means enabled us to do, in a
limited time, pressed as we were by a force
f<> much superior to us.
i have the honor to be, &c.
W. SYDNEY SMITH.
' Rt. Hon. Lord Hood.
DUBLIN, January 8.
No fubjcft can pofiibly furnift more just
matter for ridicule, than the A', ftrian re
presentation of affairs on the Rhine. By
their account, out of 40,000 who attack
ed the Puke of Brunfwick, near Landau,
ou the 25th of November, 15,000 of the
French were cut to pieces—on the id De
cember, 10,00 a were surrounded in a
wood, and fWed the fame fate—on the
19th and 20th of the fame month, 12,000
expiated, to hfe their own phrase, their
unexampled atrocities—Yet, strange to
tell, armies, ft ill moie numerous, rife
from their ashes, which continue similar
opera tions with fimibir success.
The most terrible scene perhaps tha
:ver was presented to human eyes, mi>{
lave hern the embarkation at Toulon, a
midst volumes of fire, the {hrieks of wo
men, the violence of the profligate, and
the confn!; >n of all—How many fouls
have pe*ifiled it is impoflible for conjecture
to estimate. How many ili 11 more unfor
tunate are abandoned to the French, we
fhail soon ascertain from the records of
'their fatal tribunal.
LONDON, Jr-aary 9
There will be three dating pai ties the ap
proaching kill on in jfttfiament. The Stirk
ltes or Alarariites, who will perlifi in puriu
ing the war on the Continent, lor the pur
pose of extirpating the Sans Culottes and
Carmignols; the Pittites, who will recom
mend the withdrawing our troops from, the
Frontiers,and aflift in an expedition against
the East and Weft Indies ; and the oppositi
on, who will recommend peace, as the bell
security to the happiness and well being of
the nation.
The republicans at Toulon,even in the
exultation of victory,have condescended to
ekeout the jlion'sjkin with the fox's tail.
They -have kept the Britifli and Spanifli
flags flying op the town and forts, as a
decoy to such veflels as may arrive with
men, stores or proviiions, intended for the
allies. The flratagem, if we may believe
their own accounts, has been but too fuc
cefsful.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 16,
This forenoon the Pi-efident of the United
States in a meflage to the Senate, nominated
John Jay, Envoy extraordinary to
the Court of Great Britain.
At an early hour this morning, the Gal
leries of the Hcufe of Representatives were
closed, in consequence of a motion which
after some opposition was carried in the af
firmative, to take into confideraticn the con
fidential communication from the President
-of the United States received yesterday.
le doors continued fftut, tili the adjourn-
ment.
Copy of a letter from Capt. John Cochran.
Kingjion, March 4, 1794.
Mr. Stephen Girarcl,
" I am lorry to inform you, that having
failed from Aux Cayeson the 25 th of Febru
ary, with the nett proceeds of both cargoes,
in t'ugar,, cpffee,' bar iron, &c. amounting in
value t« ,£.5645,16,5.1 was taken that day
by the lchr. Hawke, and frigate Success,
Capt. Roberts, and lent down to this port.
1 W33 fcrft boarded by the Hawke, which ves
sel belongs to Mr. Kingston, here. They
Cook pofieilion of my vellel withqut even the
formality of looking over my papers, and
mull have been convinced that tliere was no
property on board belonging to citizens of
France. Upon my arrival I underwent an
examination, and swore to my velfel and car
_n'. wl'li i);,■ -nit" mrs, nn.i 1 piuple.-—
But notwithstanding this, I apprehend the
brig and cargo will be libelled, and at it will
then be out of our power to take any Heps
for liberating the vessel, I fear the whole will
be condemned.
" A brig belonging to Mr. Pennock, of
Norfolk, and bound to this port, was bro't
in as' a prize the day I arrived ; the captain
informs me that his orders from the owner
were, in cafe of being topped here, to pro
tect against the proceedings, and return home
without attempting to lay claim,which would
occalion a fruitlefs expence."
The f J,'owing interefling detail is filrnijtei
by a gentle/nan who came pajfenger in the
Jhp Sampson, from Carton.
IN palling the Straits 6f Banco, we were
informed a large fleet of Malay prows, 150
fail, had been lying for foine time at the is
land of Lucepara, at the entrance of the
Straits ; but had a few days previous tooui
arrival there gone to the eastward in search
of another fleet of those pirates of similar
strength, with whom they were at war. Great
danger is to be apprehended from those peo
ple, uniefs the vellel has the appearance of
being well armed. An American (hip, cal
led the Fair American, commanded by Capt.
Lee, palfed through the Straits of Banco
previous to the Sampson, and was chafed by
them, but got oft' under cover of the night.
The Prows are all provided with arms, mod
of them having- a four pounder in the bow,
and small arms in abundance, they had taken
a Dutch guarde de coafti, having previously
purchased from them all their ammunition
and small arms.
The Ladrones of Cochin-China had been
in great numbers on the coaltof China, and
taken a Portuguese lhip by surprise, having
boarded h*r in the night—they also captured
a number of Junks and small boats belong
ing to the Chinese.
Lord Macartney, the Britilh Ambassador
to the Emperor of China, was expected at
Canton in a few days after the failing of the
Sampson, being then on hts return by land
| Iroin Pekin. His embafly, it was reported and
I .lelicved, had not fuece;ded in the very im
} portairt objects wished for by the Britilh Go
vernment, the chief of which was the privi
lege of their veflels to trade at some port
more northerly than Canton, to the exclusi
on of all other nations ; tfiey were also in
hopes of getting many very oppressive im
positions abolished, such as the Cumfhaw or
i resent to the Hoppoos, See. The-e it was
believed they would in part succeed, which
would be of advantage to all nations trading
to Canton. Ihe Britilh company benefited
m a small degree, it was fuppoied, by the
embafiy on their leaving Macao—(which i
place they retire to when the season for bufi
ness is pitted lid return to Canton on tie ar
rival of tliL-ir Ihips the er.fuing feafoß.)
1 hey made an offer of the cullomary
cum.'haw to the Mandarins, provided they
Would give receipts for the fame, intimating
at the fame time, that it would be forwarded
on to lerd Macartney, who was then on his
way to Pekin, which t ie Mandarins refu
fed and permitted them to pass without pay
ing. 1
It was reported also, that the presents taken
by Lord Macartney for the emperor were
refufed.* On his arrival in the yellow sea,
he was received with great splendor by Man
darins sent for that purpose by the? Empe
ror, and conducted to Pekin ; fo'me difficulty
occurred there by reason of his lordships re
fufing to comply with the usual salutation
before the Emperor, which' is to bow the
head to the ground. But on his being in
formed no audience would be granted him
imlefs this previous ceremony was complied
with,he Submitted. At the departure of the
Sampson his lordfiiip was on his way from
Pekin over land to Canton. Great prepara
tions were made at the places he ftoped at on
his journey, he was treated with great po
liteneCs and every mark of refpeil Ihewn him:
The Lyon man of war of 60 guns, Erasmus
Gore, commander, and the IndoftaYi Tndia
rnan, Capt. Mc'lntolh, had arrived previous
to the failing of the Sampson, after landing
Lord Macartney and his suite. The Lyon
was laying at the entrance of the Bocca Ti
ger with a French brig from the north weft
coast of America with .tins, which they had
fnade a prize of.
The Britilh Indiaman Princess Royal had
been captured in the Straits of Sunda by
three French privateers, after a warm action,
which continued tor an hour with great bra
very on both fides. A number of French
privateers were in the Straits of Malacca,
and had almost entirely doftroyed the ilntch
and English coasting trade in that quarter,
having taken i*ear sixty fail of veflels large
and small, and it was supposed few home
ward bound ships from Canton to Bengal
and Bombay would escape.
* Another ccconnt fays they were accepted.
CONGRESS.
House of Reprejentatives.
April ij.
A meflage was received from the Presi
dent, communicating a letter from the
Bvitifli minister here, in which the inftrnc
tions of the Bth of June are endeavored to
be shewn consonant to the law of nations ;
also sundry communications from the south
wrftrm territory, ami a letter from our
ambsflador at Madrid, communicated con
fidentially.
The non-importation resolution was tak
en up in the House: Mr. Smith (S. C.)
presented a modification of the original
motion, which was declared to be a sub
stitute, by the chair, and therefore out of
order.
>rder.
Mr. Giles moved to strike out of the
•efolution the Jine qua non condition, of
eftitution for negroes carried off.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) obje&ed to the
notion.—He feared it would appear like
in abandonment of the claim.
After some further debate on this a
mendment, Mr. Filzfimons suggested a
iubftitute for the resolution to avoid the
jmbarrafTment of a fpecification.
Mr. Giles withdrew his amendment.
Mr. Smith (S.C.) moved to ltrike out
the fpecification and insert a clause more
general.
After further conversation, Mr. Tracy
exprelfed a wish for the previous question,
under the imprefilon, that this is not a pro
per time for a final decision on the busi
ness.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) consented to with
draw his amendment until the previous
question be put.
After some debate the yeas and nays
were called on this question, viz. Shall
the main question be now taken ?
AYES. NOES
Armflrong, Ames,
Bailey, Boudinot,
Baldwin, S. Bourne,
Beatty, B. Bourn,
Blount, Cadwallader,
Carnes, Cobb,
Christie, Coffin,
Claibourne, Coit,
Clark, Dearborn,
Coles, Dexter,
Kent, Fitzfimonsi
Findley, Fotreft,
Giles, Foster,
Gilman, . • Gilbert,
Greenup, Glen,
Gregg, Goodhue,
Griffin, Gordon,
Grove, Hartley,
Hancock, Heifter,
Hillhoufe,
Hi'ndman,
Holten,
Harrifon,
Heath,
Hunter/
Irvine,
Lockc,
Lyman,
v Macon,
Madison,
M'Dowell,
Mebane,
Montgomery,
Moore,
Mahlenberer,
Nevil,
New*
Nicholas,
Orrj
Page,
Parker,
Pickens,
Preston,
Rutherford,
Scott,
Smilie,
I. Smith,
S. Smithy
S P ri gg>
T readwell,
V. Cortlandt,
Venule,
Walker,
Williams,
Winn.
Witifton,—
The House then adjourned.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YdRK, April 15.
ARRIVED.
Schr. Needman, Williams, Edenton
Sloop Fanny, Hoit, . St. Eufiatia
Lively, Reed, Baltimore
Capt. Hoit had his vefiel captured and con
demned at Dominico. The agents purchas
ed the Vefiel and gave her to the captain,with
this vefiel came 4 American matters of ves
sels, who had their vefiels and cargoes taken.
They report that the privateers continue to
take and plunder all vessels they meet, but
that 'tis reported, that condemnations will
be discontinued till further inftruflions arrive
from England, by which time they expeil
prudently to be able to form a judgment
which fide the Americans mean to take.
Reports are, that Fort Bourbon was in
pofieflion ps the French the 20th March.—
At St. Euftatia, several reports were propa-
the fort was taken, but as often
contracii&cd ; fc> that wc have reason to con
clude that the French are yet in poflefiion of
it. The English made an attempt to take a
frigate near the Fort, but were driven off
with the loss of many lives, having had
their gun boats funk.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
CLEARED.
Ship Chnrlefton, Garman, Charkfton
Aurora, Seward, Poitfmouth
Schooner Alice, Weymouth, Bermuda
Friendship, M'Namara, Virginia
Mary, Hufley, ' Boston
Sloop Polly, Graves, Richmond
Those persons who
unde'takc to cut limber or wood of any kind
whatver. from any lands of the real fftate of
the late Rrchard Stockton £fq. deceased, in
the wide*n prccinft of the County of Somerset
in the ftate.of Newjeifey, under a pretence of
a i ight to cut on lands adjacent, are itquefttd to
desist from so doing, or thry wi|l bt; proceed
ed agaihft in such manner as may prove trou
blesome and expensive to themselves.
Ap il 16. w&s2w
NEW THEAT
THIS EVENING,
April 16.
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, written by Mrs. Cowley,
called the
Belle s Stratagem.
Doricourt, Mr. Chalmers
Hardy, Mr. Morris
Sir George Touchwood, Mr. Whitlock
Flutter, Mr. Marshall
Saviile, Mr. Green
Saville's fervt.- Mr. Darley jun.
Villers, Mr. Cleveland
Courtall, Mr. Moreton
Gentleman, Mr. Harwood
Gibfon, Mr. Warrell
Dick, Mr. Francis
Letitia Hardy, Mrs. Morris
Mrs. Racket, Mrs. Shaw
Lady Frances Touchwood, firft time
Mils Oldfield.
Mils. Ogle, Mrs. Francis
Kitty Willis, Mrs. Kowfon
In a<st 4th a Grand Masquerade, with a
dance by the charadiers.
To which wiH be added,
A FARCE, in 2 adts, (Written by the
Author of the School for Scandal) called
Saint Patrick's Day ;
OR. fHf
Scheming Lieutenant.
t
Kitttera,
Latimer,
Learned,
Lee,
t Malbone,
Murray,
Niles,
Sherbauriie,
J. Smith,
W. Smith,
Swift,
Talbot
Thatcher,
Tracy,
T i unibull,
Van Alien,
Van Gaafbeek,
J. Wadfworth,
P. Wadfworth,
Ward,
Watts,
Wingate— 44,JAMES LEACH,
RLaP£CTFULkY informs hi* friends and
>he pu;bjic, Tji#t from the encouragement
he U4S teceivcd, Irom several refpe£lable Gentle
men, he is induced ouce more, to embark in the
PAffcK LlNE—and would offer his fetvi cs to
all thofc Gentlemen, w4io can place confidenc
in him i and he assures those who employ him,
that their confidence (hall not be milplaccd ; —
but it {hall be his conilant endeavor, t<*pay the
itriCtcU attention to their bett irttereft, inall nc
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber
in Stale-Street, David Town/end, Watch
Makei'i Sliop. Where PUBLIC SECURI
-7 1 ot aH kinds, are bought and foid ; and
wheit Com million Bdfiuefs of all kinds, will be
trania&ed ©n reasonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS wit! be conikantly exposed tor faie, on
comniiiiion.
* # * CaOv paid for Salem, Providence, a
Porifmouth BILLS
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-Ydtk, has any Bujinefs to tranlqH at Bojien,
in Paper iugociations, he will bk happy to be em
ployed on comtmjfion.
hoiton, Jan. 24, 1794. mw&fif
Just Publilhed,
and to be sold by
THOMAS DOBSON,
Ac the Stone house, No. 4 1 ) South Second
Street,
Historical Collections ;
CONSISTING OF
STATE PAPERS,
Aid jther uthentic Documents, intended as
mate' ials tor an Hiltory of the United States
of Amenta.
By HAZARD, A. M.
In two large quarto volumes, pi ice ten dol
lars 111 boards.
Subscribers will be furnifhed with the 2d.
volume 011 paying three dollars and a quarter
—liavi 11 g paid' five dollars and a quarter on
receiving the firft.
Th s lecond volume comprehends, among
Othur imereftUg pa t>cular<, a complete co
py x)f the Recordsof the Umt<d Colonies oi
N. England, in which the condHft of the com
lnifiioiiers relpe&ing the general concerns of
the cobnies—the neighbouring Indians—and
the Dutch at MankatUni (now New Yolk) is
pai'ticnj»rly detailed.
* * Mi r erials are colle&ed lumcient to
{on* a THIRD VOLUME, The time of
pnbiifWg will depend on the encouragement
to be d. rived from fubferiptions which will be
received by Thomas Dobfon, Philadelphia ;
Jere. Libbey, Portsmouth, New Hampfhirt;
Thomas & Andrews, & Dav. West.Boston; If
aia Thomas, Worcester ; Isaac Beers, New-
Haven; Timothy Green, New London; Jacob
Rithaidfon, Newport; John Carter, Provi
dence ; Hugh Gaine, Thomas Allen, e and
Samuel Campbell, New York; Fred rick
Craig, Wilmington, Delaware ( i,c^»
Baltimore; Mr. Lindfey, Norlolk ; David
Henderfon, Fredericksburg; John Grammar
P be' ftw r g ; Augustine Davis, Richmond ; F
X Martin, Neyberji.N. C. John Bradley,
Wilmington; and William Price Young,Char
leftoti.
April A• mw&f 3 w
PROPOSALS
For Printing by Subscription,
An Original Novel,
In Four Volumes, duodecimo,
Dedicated, by Permiflion, to Mrs. Bingham,
ENTITLED,
Trials of the Human Heart.
By Mrs. ROWSQN,
Of the New Theatre, Philadelphia, Author
of Victoria, loqu'fitor, Charlotte, Fille
dg Chambre, &c. &c.
« . If there's a pow'r above us,
«' (And that there is, a|l Nature cnes aloud
« Thro'all her works) hemuft delight in
" virtue,
" And that which lie delights in, niuft be
" happy."
<> The foul, fecur'd in her exigence,fmiles
" At the drawn dagger, & defies its point"
CONDITIONS.
f I. The work to be printed with a neat type
Oil good paper.
11, Price to fubferibers four dollars bound,
one half to be paid at the time of lubfcribing.
111. The fubferibers' names will be prefixed
as patrons of the undertaking.
*„* Subscriptions are received by the Au
thor, the corner of Seventh and Chefnut
streets, MellYs. Carey, Rice, ®nd Dobron,
Philadelphia— Mr. Green, Annapolis—Mes
srs. Allen, Berry, and S. Campbell, New,
York—MeflVs. Weft, Thomas and Andrew
Blake, and Larkin, Bflfton— Mr. Hafwel,
Vermont—MelFrs. Rice, and Edwards, Bal
timore—Mr. W. P. Young, Charleston.
April 2. mw&f3ws
TO BE SOLD,
Aud entered upon the fiift of May,
The noted EJlate y called
yohnjon Hall:
Lying m the Moha w<c country, (late of New
Yoik, formerly the-feat of Sir William John*
son, containing about seven hundred acres of
land, which is of the very bell quality ; toge
ther with theftock, and farming utensils. The
buildings are large and convenient, and fit for
a gentleman's feat. The payments will be made
cafy, on good fecunty. For further particulars
enquire of George Mete a If, Esq. on the prcmif
es, 0! Silas Talbot, Esq. at Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Brothers, in New York, or
of the fubfc.nber in Piovvdence.
Jabez Bowen.
Philad. March 26 mw&lim
The following memorial from Samue
Hopkins, was read in the House of Re*
prefentatives of tills Commonwealth,
the 19th inli.
To the Speaker and Members of the At
lembly of Pc. fylvania :
THE Subscriber apprehends he has at
great labour and expence much improved
on the common mode of manufacturing
pot and pearl alhea, for which improve
ment the United States have granted him,
an exclusive right for a term of year 9.
The advantages over the furmer is set forth
by diveis*Certificates, one of which signed
by David Rittenhoufe, Doftot Rulh and
others, hath been publiflnd- By variety
of improvements in the application of the
principle, he apprehends he lias so far fim
plffy'd it, that at small expenee it may be
conduced by women or chddren, altho'
larger the works greater the profits result
ing in proportion. In a work that maycoft
about 12 dollars to be worked by a boy of
12 or 13 years old, with attention, may
make 150 weight of pearl ashes, an j with
good house ashes at 9d per bufhtl, wood at
20s per cord ; the pearl ashes so made when
fold at the common price of 50 s P er hund
red,leaves about 40s for his week's labour.
The process is allowed to be easy and fami
liar, one of those small works is now Hand
ing at his house in Arch Street No. 43, and
is free for infpeftion to any thqt inclines
to visit it; he therefore wishes a suitable
Committee may be appointed, one 01" more
members of each County to examine the
fame, fee tome experiments performed,
and should it be thought after every neeef
fary examination, this improvement prefer
able to the former, and a general benefit
to this State, in bringing forward this ma
tt ufa&ury in which little heretofore hawe
been done, he willing to relinquish his afor
faid right,as saras relates to Pennsylvania,
for such a compensation as the merits of it
may appear reasonable todcfire.
SAMUEL HOPKINS.
2d Mo. 19, 1764.
A work that may cost about 300 dollars
when compleat with 4 large boilers worked
by 2 fires, 2 hands may make as much
pearl ashes as common black salts, perhaps
18 or 20 cwt. per week, it may require
about 7 cord of wood. The quantity
made in a certain given time, will always
depend oaths attention of the woikmeiu _
the fiee of the furnace, the quality of the
ashes, &c. &c.
The Committee appointed Feb. 25,laft,
on the memorial of Samuel Hopkins,
made report, which was lead as follows,
viz :
The Committee to whom was refered
the application of Samuel Hopkins to the
Legislature, on lhe,fubje£t of an improve
ment discovered by him in the manufac
tury of pot and bearl ashes, beg leave to
to report—That they think favourably of
the prayer of the said applicant, and aie
of opinion that it will beadvantageous'for
the State to have the mode invented by
him, rendered of general utility, by the
purchase of his exclusive privilidge in the
discovery, which they understand may be
effetted on very moderate terms; they
therefore recommend the following resolu
tion :
Rtfolved, That a Committee be ap
pointed to bring in a bill to grant the furo
of £ to Samuel Hopkins, in re
ward of his discovery, and as a compensa
tion for the surrender of his exclusive right
to said improvement, within the limits of
this commonwealth.
Ordered to lia on the table.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Ediuard, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Petersburg in Ruflia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-street.
March 4,1794. di w,?Uwtf
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b(g» leave to of
f r his ferviccsto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Thofc who raav plfatfr
to favor him with their bufwefs, may depend
upon having it tranfatted with theuimoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will be ftriflly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER. I
m&thtt
The annual ele&ion
FOR
Dire&ors and a Treasurer
OF THE
Library Company of Philadelphia,
\VILL e held at ibe Library, in Fifth
fli eet, on Monday the fifth of May next, at
i hree n dock in the afternoon, When the trea-
will attend to receive the Annual pay
ments.
As there are several (hares on which fines
are dne, the owner* of them, or their repre
sentatives, are hereby notified, that they \vHl
be forfeited, agreeably to the laws of the
Com pan y r unless the said arrears are paid off
on the fifth day of May, or within ten days
alter.
By Order of the Dire<slor*.
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN,
Secretary
April 7- m&w t sth May.
Samuel Coates,
At his Store, No. 82, south FrontJlreet,
HATH FOR SALE,
94 Barrels
New England Beef,
29 barrel? liver ail,
*5 barrels Cider,
92 boxes ot Candles,
1500 pair of men's leather shoes
642 bushels of Barley
A quantuy of Tow Lin«*n
Duto, of New-tiigland Soal leather
40 bags of excellent corton
4 boxes of Chocolate
3000 wt. of Alfpice
too cases of ihe best Holland g : n.
Apt il 1. *ppd2 w
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
sup- rior quality in pipes, imported in the ihip
Wil Tlington.
OLD CHERRY WINE of the firft quality
in quarter calks, impm red in the brig Naiicy
capr. Gwin, ft m Cadia.
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RMSINS, imported in ditro.
Particular TENEUIFFE WINES,in p pes
lihds. and qua-r'er caikr, imported in the ftiip
Thomas, capt. Skinner.
A few quarter calk. of. old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who has also, just arrived and for iale
A SMALL CARGO OF
luijbon Salt.
A qua tity of empty BAGS for sale.
„ AfrnJ 5- ' di w _w&s im,
St. Domingo Sufferers.
THOSE pe'foEs who undertook to collect
the fubfeription mad : for the relief of the a
bove unfo tunate per Cons, are requefled to
complete their returns, where tlie> have, not
already done it, and to deliver the fame with
any balarre they may hold, into the funds o.'
the Treasurer, \rho v • 'receive any fablcrip
t'lon which remains uncollected, or any frefh
donation. It is hoped instant attention will
be paid to this notice, to enable the commit,
tee of distribution th close their accounts and
give further relief to a n\fmber of thole per
sons itill remaining here, whose situation is
truly diftreflmg.
By order of the <-ommitteeof distribution,
Robert Smith, Treasurer.
Ap.il 9, ,794.
P. S. It IS lequefted the different Printers
will for a few days, publilh the above.
Henry Rape State of Maryland.
"• JHigli Couit of Chancery,
BenjaminGaither s- March Jth. 1794.
and v
Basil Gaither
The Complainant states
in his b 1! that the defendants Benjamin Gai
ther and Basil Gaither were seized in fee as
tenants in common of a tract of land in Fre
derick County, called Hammond*? Strife ; —
that being so seised, Basil executed a power
of attorney to Benjamin authorizing him to
fell his, the said Bafil'* interelt in'the fa d
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin fold
the laid land to a certain William Gaither for
the consideration of fix hundred pound* which
llath been since paid, that the said William
hath adigned to the Complainant Henry Rape
the bond executed by the laid Benjamin for
the conveyance of tie fad land: The Com
plainant now further states (ard so appears
to the Chancellor) that the defendants are
n in-refidents of the itate of Maryland, and
herefore out of the reach of the process of
this court.
It is theiefore adjudged and ordered, that
the Complainant .procure a copy of this or
der to be inserted in the newfpapcr of Angel]
and Sul ivan, and is the United States Gazet e
at least three weeks fucceflively, before the
twentieth day of .May next •, to the intent
that the Defendants and all others, who may
conceive themselves interested in the premis
es, may have notice to appear in this court,
on or before the third Tuciday in September
next, to Ihew cau'e wherefore a decree fiiould
not pal's for veftingin the Complainant aconi
plete legal title to the land aforefaid.
Test,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. Con.
March 18. tuth&s3w
*
The following Certifi
caic of the funded three per Cent Sirck of thp
Domcftic the United States (lauding en
the books oi the Trcafury of the (aid Uimed
! Sittrc, in the names of Donnald and Burton of
I London, met chants, and signed by Jofepli
Nourfe, Reg fter of f«id Trrafury, tc wtt
No. <1476, 24 h August for 8959
j dollars and 53 c,cn(s a s fiarifmitted from Lon
! don in the (hip Peter, P«jul Huflfcy, mallei,
I boOnd for Ndw York, and has been Joft.—
I The Subfcnber intending to apply to the Trca
-1 fury of the United States to have the fame re
newed, defirt s all persons who are inteifftc*d in
the said certificate, to make their objection*
thereto, if any they have-.
Francis Macy.
Philad. March 27. dow
Lately Publiftied.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street :
THE History of Ncw-Hampftiire, from the
Diftovery of the River Pifcataqiia—by Je
remiah litlkvap, D. D 3 Vols. Price in Boards,
4 12 Dollars.
The Forrdlrr, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Cfoihier.
Prce, 75 Ct-nts. *
A Dilcourfe, intended to commemorate the
Discovery ot America by Chnllopher Colum
bus; delivered at the reqw'ft of the Hittorical
Society in Maifachufetts, Oflober 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Thud Ceniuo,
since that memorable event. To which , are
added, Four DiffV rtationj., connc&ed h the
fut'jeft—By the fame author. Price, ep Cents.
March tu ' &'3w
To be fold, by Public Vendue,
The 19th liiilant,
At the Cofef.e Hoosk,
At Seven o'clock in the Evening,
By Old*! of the Reft, r, Church Warden-, and
Veftryof the Un ted Episcopal Churches
of" ChnftChU'fh and St. Piter's Church
Philadelphia, the T uftees of the Univeifi
ty, and tile Managers of the pLnnfvlvania
Ho(p ; 'al,
The lioufe and Lot bequeathed
by the last Wfiii and Teftaineut of
Srooj) 1 ; equal proportions to tbc
a ove inftitutioij5 > being
The House, No. 20,
Whe:ein Joft-ph spencernow lives well fili
ated for Mitinels, on the weft fide of 1 bird
street, about midway bttwfen Market mid
Arch street. It is 17 leer'front upon Third
street, and the lot is 132 feet deep
**Thi prr chafer paying half the purchase mo.
u - J un ue Un v tyf tlx deed} ma v have twelve ,
m inths credit for the remainder, on giiirg
good fecuritv and paying interest.
THOMAS CUIWPSI ON,
JOHN WILCOCKS,
Committee for the Keftot,Church Wardens
and Vestry appointed tc»fell.
EDWARD FOX,
Committee for the University.
JOSEPH PASCHALL,
SAMUEI. COAIES,
BARTHOLOMEW WISTAR.
Committee tor the Pennsylvania Hospital.
April 14. dts
AD VE RTISEMENT.
SALES at NEW-rORK, by A. L.
BLEECKER cj SONS,
On Thursday the 15th May next at Twelve
o'clock at the Tontine Coffee House,
THE FOLLOWING
Tra&s of Lcuid,
In Watkins and Flint's purchase, in the coun
ty of Tioga, state ot New Y<> k.
The containing acres
South weft quar of Townfhp No. 2, 9,424
No»thweft do. do. 4, 5,647
Northeast do. do. 6, 13,525
Southwell do. do. 7, 9000
Southwest do do. 8, *.
North weft do. do. 8, 6,<*50
Southeast do. do. 9, 6,250
Southeast do, do. 9,000
North weft do. do. 10, 10,475
70,521
Tliefelands are rapidly encreafing in vain ,
large settlements are already made in several
of the town {hip -; the goodness of foil, and
the advantages in point of situation being so
web known, render any further defcnpr'um
unneceilVy. Amp of the tra&s and condi
tions of sale may be seen at No. 10, Queen
street, New-York.
April io tuth&s,ti4M
Just Imported,
In theJhip Abigail, Captain Horton, from S(
Peterjhurgh in Rujfta, and now landing at
Rujfell's wharf,
HEMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And for file ai the (lores of the fubfciiber in
Walnut street, N"• 22
John Donnaldfon.
April 4. diw w&c t'
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 5,
.South Fourth-Street. \