of States
EVE
[No. 51 of Vol. V.]
advertisement.
t iTginia, Korthumbei land Count\. Da. 28. 1793
FOR SALE,
A Valuable Tradt of LAND,
in this county, containing *hout eight
hundred acres, one fourth oi wlnrh i* low
grounds, of exrcltenf qualuy; ihr other thre<-
fourths is high land, well covcied with ojk,
bickory and chcTnu?.
The fit nation rs plcafam and heal'hv, on Yeft
comico river, about three milrs from the Pofo
mack There is on it 4 two story brick dwel
ling house, with four rooms and a pafWe on,
each floor, rtclnfivc of clofcts • a kitchcn,
and othc? necessary mit-houffs It has orchards
of apolc and p ach trees, and is well watered
by many delightful springs. The terms may he
known on application to the Honorable JOHN
HEATH, in Philadelphia, or to the fjblcriber,
living on the prrmifes.
Jan. 10. riif
JOHN CORDON.
ALL persons having any de
mands ihe rlUle ,t GiORGE
WIBLE, ld»e of the city of Philadelphia, baker,
are rrtjncftrd to bring in their accounts, properly
air.heniicaud ; and thole who are indebted, arc
defued to make immediate ppvmept.
HENRY REES, Aciminiftrator.
2av'3w
January tg.
Insurance Company,
Philaac ihn y jayuecr\ 6, 1704.
NOTICE >s hereby £<v<?n ro the members
of the insurance Co*noanyof North-
America, that the Directors have declared a
d'vider.d (for the last fix months) of six PfR
Cent, on the amount of the firll and second
inrtalmrrts J and of ore per cent per month
Oil the Aims p;»id in anticipation of *he third
ii'fHitiaent, calculating f r om the firft dav of
the month following thai, in jivh rii ihoJe pay
ments were made. The dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders, or * heir representatives,
at the company's office, No. 119 forth Fi ont
flreet, at any time alter the 13th instant.
the Dirc&ors.
E3ENEZS2I HAZARD, Secretary.
Ja"- 9. w&f. im.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths cs 5 Jewellers,
No. 42,
JOUTH SECOKD-STREET, 1
HAVE FOR SALE,
.An elegant /4/fortment of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY fine CUTLERY,
Which they will dilpoie of on the most rea
sonable tei ins. Devices in hair, Miniatures
fctt, and every thing in the jjold and silver
way, done as uiual.
December 24.
Treasury Department,
NOTICE is hereby given, that prqpofals will
be received at the Office of (he Secretary
ot the Treasury, until the 6th of February nfA
inclufrre, for the supply of all Rations winch
may be required during the present year, at ihe
several places of rendezvous hrrcafter mention
ed, for the Recruiting Service, vie.
At New-Brunfwick, in New-Jcrfcy ;
At Philadelphia, ")
The rations to be furnifhed are toconfiftofth
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of tucf, or J of a pound of poik
Hall a jilt of rum, b«andy or wlulky,
One cj• tof fait
Two qmrts of ,io^MC. IQO ra ; OD!
On- pound of candles}
J 3, M^
This day is publijhed.
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, MARKIT-ST» *-£T,
f Price a quarter dollar)
A ftiort account of ALGIERS,
Containing a description of the climatc of th*t
country—of ihe manners and customs of ihr in
habitants, and of their several wars against Spain,
France, England, Holland, Venice, and other
powers of Europe, from the usurpation of Bar
barolTa and the invasion of the Emperor Ch irlea
V. to the present time; with a eoncife view of
the origin of the ruoture between ALGIERS
and the UNITED STATES.
1»" Q.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogP-cjd» and in cife« of jo bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
I* pip", hoglheads and quarter calVl,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No.' in, South Froot-ftreet.
Ji«. *, >794. d,f
N I N G A D V E
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by
Thomas Dobfon,
Price three eighths of a Dollar,
" An Enquiry into the principles
and tendency of certain public
measures."
January 16. dtw
NORRIS'-COURT,
Bock ot" the New Library, brtween Chelnut
and Walnut Street 1 ?.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the bulinf fs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-(hutter s,done :n the most
elegant manne», and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December go, dtf
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
By M. C A R E Y,
No. 118, MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuable collection of BOOKS,
imported from London in the Mohawk.
Dec. 19.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Secviidyireet)
Second door below the corner of Chefimt-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general Ajfortment of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be disposed of on the lowest terms.
Dec. 23. mw&f tf
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, I 794.
X'yOTICE is hereby given, that there will
lN be paid at the Batik, after the iixteenth
instant, to the Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
iifty cents for each share, being the d.vidend
declared for the last fix months.
ThS Young LADIES'
mw&ftf
Drawing Academy,
Under the D 'ireclion of
S. F O L W ELL,
Will, in a fiu Jays, be resumed.
HE feels a gratitude to those parents
and guardians of the young ladies,
who have entrusted to him their tuition—
and as molt of them are to return, he will
have an opportunity, by his endeavors for
their further improvement, to acquit him
felf of a debt, which he esteems it an honor
to have incurred.
One or two large Rooms,
In a central situation, suitable to accom
modate his pupils, are wanted. Apply to
him, at No. 2, Laetitia Court—where he
will be thankful to receive commands for
Miniature Painting or Hair Work, and all
kind of Drawing on Ivory, Sattin or
Paper.
• awt6F.
January 13, 1794.
From the Connecticut Courant.
To all Chrijlian People—more efpedally
those who take the Connecticut Courant.
HEAVEN blcfs the heart that loves
to give—
May it in ease and plenty live ;
May every moment bring encreaCe
Of wealth, of happiness, and peace ;
From every ill of life secure,
May no misfortune find his door,
But fafe within his blifsful cell,
Let every joy and virtue dwell.
But prayers alone, the wife ones fay,
At befl are secondary pay ;
Therefore be pleas'd to accept this sheet—
Paper, and prayers, are all you'l get,
A N JD
Friday, January 17, 1794
By Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cafihier.
divv
[by request.]
Thus Congress, whe 1 the guineas fled,
Put pap:r-money in their ftcad ;
And if it prov'd a kind of curse,
'Twas better doing so, than worse—
For tho' qurfelves were cheated sure,
It help'd usi cheat the British more.
That fhcet contains in !imple rhime,
The news I've brought from time to time,
Since lad, with cap in hand, I came
Begging, for wijt J Jure not nam.' —
Give me that fome'iing if you please,
And you may read it at your ease.
Scarce had our good old friend, the Sun,
Drefs'd out in furrs, the year begun,
When lo ! beyond the Atlantic flood,
His course was ilain'd with faultlefs bloods
Hark f where from fcencs of death afar,
Red Faction blows the trump of war—
Where milling mid the scenes of ftrife,
The Mountain whets the deathful knife,
And (talking o'er the carnag'd ground,
Stabs Freedom with a fatal wound—
Lo Louis ! from the throne of state
By villains fentene'd, meets his fate.
See! loft to every sense of good,
And recking with their sovereign's blood,
His murderers aim the deadly dart,
At fair Antouietta'e heart.
Nojuftice binds the hell-hound crew,
Their fouls companion never knew,
But screams of anguifli on their ears,
Transcend themufic of the lpheres ;
While tun'd to sweet fymphonious swell,
Sounds the loan Tocsin's awful knell.
Next, in this all eventful year,
Flies from liis pod great Dumourier ;
And now the Frenchmen fay, he's fled
With ail their guilt upon his head,
So erll the Jews, o'erftock'd with evil,
To save themselves and cheat the devil,
Bound all their fins in solemn ltate,
Upon the scape-goat's lueklefs pate ;
Then bid the staggering creature Itray,
Where e'er his nose (liould lead the way.
But Satan was not such a coot,
To fell Judea for a goat.
But now a chain of despots bring
Their troops, to avenge poor Gallia's king;
That is—since Louis' head is gone,
They tremble stoutly for their own.
Ah worthy George ! thy fighting sons,
Deal lustily in—saving bones ;
Whene'er attack'd, without delay,
They raise the liege, and run away ;
While brave Adol, to fear a ft ranger,
Boldly approaches nigh to danger,
And scorns to yield, tlio' wotinded full
Three inches down lownrils his JltulL
Behold Marat, whose gtlilty hand,
Spread ruin o'er his native laud—
WhofiTvoice with hoarse infernal yell,
Urg'd on to death his dogs of hell,
When ftretch'd the bloody streets along,
Promiscuous lay the flaughtej'd throng—-
Arretted by the stroke of death,
To female vengeance yields his breath.
See lovely Corde, whose patriot eye,
Beheld bright Peace, her country fly—
Saw Freedom into exile fled,
And jufticc bow her awful head—-
With firm, intrepid, Roman foul,
Deride the Rabble's base controul,
Afeend tintncv'd the fcafFold-throne,
And dauntless fly to worlds unknown.
And now, to attack this happy land,
Hell musters out his favorite band—
His body guard for storm and wind,
The Gog and Magog of mankind.
Abui'd by England, France and Spain,
On eveiy quarter of the main,
To make our wretchedness complete,
The Algerines fend out their fleet;
Thus what the canker worm hath bit,
The palmer worm has come to eat.
Thy cajlt Columbia, once so snug,
Thro' cither head has got a plug,
And soon, this curst barbarian troop,
Will tap it under every hoop.
To escape Abdallah'e bloody host,
We'll quit the European coast,
Improve the firft propitious gale,
And towards Columbia stretch the fail ;
Where we (hall find a noisy throng,
Chanting the antifederal song.
Last spring, the folcmn time drew nigh,
When Madam Congress ought to die,
RTI S E
[Whole No. 489.]
While the Old Lady lav in prayer)
Rack'd with the arigwui of ciefpair,
Great Mr. G—that modefl; man,
Was fafe delivered of—a plan.
Alas fond man ! thou tho't'fl hefure
Altho' thy Brat was premature,
If Hamilton woilld once retreat,
'Twould stand a chance to live, and ea:
Rut lo ! before the second rtiorn,
The wond:-ous Ballard prov'd still-born.
But hark ! what founds so !oud, and clear,
Break on Columbia's tortur'd ear ?
" G—t is come," the founds reply,
" Let songs' of triumph rend tjie iky/'
Now mix'd with yonder motley throngj
The (h;!oViy Envoy struts, along,
While mobs, &c. heart, and hand,
Welcome the demagogue to land.
See the French tindei -box take fire,
At every straggling spark of ire,
Flame round the realm in wild difmav,
And threaten all who disobey*
Hear him (O monstrOus ?)' rave, and fweafy
That France, and we, twin-sisters are,
So much alike, that Death, a dunce,
Will doubtless kill ub botfi at once,
See him (O fad !) now funk forlorn.
Beneath tfie utirioft teach cf scorn.
There let him, bid from every eye,
On fair G -'s bosom lie,
Till fitter France {hall intervene,
And wed him to Miss 6uil!otine,
But fee the clouds of death draw riigft,
And shroud Columbia's faireft (ley ;
O'er Philadelphia's fated ground,
Disease and terror stalk around,
Despair adds horror to the gloom,
And crouds the manfioiis of the tomb.
One random {hot from Fate's sure bow
I .ays Boston's mighty monarch low ;
See the fam'd Democratic race,
Prepare to {hew their sovereign grace-—
While to the wondering eye of day,
The lengthen'd cavalcades display
A pofnp, which Kings would blush to
own,
"Where Freedom finks beneath tfie throne/
Well might the patriot Adams flv
Tlie fhameful scene, with fwiairbing e
Now trouble thickens fact around*,
Duplaine comes tumbling to the ground ;
While snug within hit* consul nest,
Bold Dannery enters his protefb
Now warrft'd anew, Monsieur Genet,
Falls sou! of McfTrs. King and Jay,
Demands the retribution due him,
And feemi to hint as if he'd sue 'em,
See him from York in fwift retreat,
Tho' hungry, still afraid to cat,
Left Grcenleaf should difefofe a fate,
To make the Envoy's cheeks turn pal&r
Great child of negociation flv—
Ruin 011 thee has f?xM her eve
Thy sweetheart Moultrie soon muff {cave
thee,
Thy Charleftown soldiers cannot save
Thee,;
For faction's fake do not delay,
Congress are counting out thy pay,
Soon thou wilt hare it, n. verTe.'.r,
Made up in bilh ott Roberfpiere,
And row, met n inks forhe friarlers fay
' Before you end your tedious ,
' Afhonpft the hct'roger.cous race,
* Tom Greertterfflight to fiid a placc ;
' That Librf nn the best of Me?;,
* Was doubtJefs v r ritten by his pen ;
4 And yet, how fad tbe coward flies,
* From Retribution's avvfrl eye?.'
My heart disdains the fncakfho foul,
Who tfufli no' venture from his hole,
And ever will the wretch defpifc,
Who saves his ears by telling lies.
Hartford, Jan, ijf, 1794.
BEING desirous of cl elfin g various commer
cial concerns, and (hat oil powers hereto
fore granted relative (o the fame Ihould be re
voked, and public notice of it given, to prevent
any p"ffible mistake ; I, the Tabfci iber, do Irere
by mahe known to all whom it may concern,
that all oowers and letters of attorney, of every
natuie and eX'cnt, granted by me to any person
or per (oris, prior to the vft.day of July lift, to
ast for mcW tn nty name in America, are re
voked and made void.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
New-York, Jau. i, 1794. dtw
R.
NOTICE.CONGRESS
House of ReprefentatiViS.
Januirv 14.
In committee of the holt, on the report of
the Secretary of Stcte, mlariiie to the com
mercial intercourfc of tb'u country, 'with so-
reign mitiotu.
Sketch of Mr. Madison's observations in
reply to Mr. Smith,
Mr. Madilon said, he had hoped that
the gentleman up yellerday, would to-day
linve favored tlie commiltee with those ar
guments which the late hour yellerday,
preventedhimfrom bringing forward; how
ever, as this did not appear his intention,
he rose to make some remarks on the very
important fubjeft, now before the Legilla
ture.
The fubjeft before the committee, be
acknowledged, is of a commercial nature;
however, it will not be poliiblc, he con
ceived, to do jullice to it and to the in
tercfts of the United States without mak
ing some allusions to politics. The ques
tion as it at tirft presents itfelf is of a ge
neral nature ; the committer arc lb deter
mine how far if i«the»ntereft -of this coun
try, by commercial regulations, to vary
the Hate of commerce now cxiiting. He
declared himfelf a friend to free trade, and
give it as his Opinion, that it would be of
general advantage if, all commerce was
lice ; but to this rule there are, he con
ceived, exceptions. He inttanced the na
vigation ast of Great Britain as a proof of
the efTift of one exception on tbeprofpe
rity of national commerce. This ast, be
fore the present revolution of France, when
it produced its full efTeft, and because it
was not counter-balanced by a-y similar
acts on the part of rival nations, gave to
Great Britain eleven twelftlra of the (hip
ping employed in her tiade. The rapidity
with which it produced its effects was not
lei's remarkable, lie said, than the extent
of those effects.
The a<£t passed in 1660 ; the foreign
tonnage then employed in the British trade
v. .-.s to the British tonnage as one to four,
in 1719 it was reduced to as one to nine ;
in 1750 it was as one to twelve, and in
1774, it was reduced to less than as one
to twelve. There is another exception to
the advantages of a free trade, w here the
fraction of the country is such with ref
peft to another, that by duties on the
commodities of that other it (hall, not on
ly invigorate its own means of rivalfhip,
hat draw from that country the hands em
ployed in the production of those commo
dities. When an effect like this can be
produced it is so much clear gain, and is
confident with the general theory of nati
onal rights. What has been and ever will
be the effect of leaving our commerce alto
gether to regulate itfelf? It is to submit
it to be regulated by other nations. Sup
pofc, that this country had a commercial
intercourse with one nation only, and that
we should admit of a free trade, and that
nation procecdedon a monopolizing system,
would not that nation enjoy all the carrying
trade, and with it the maritime strength
it confers be heaped upon a rival! Then
just in the fame proportion to the freedom
we grant to the veflels of other nations
with us, and to the burdens other nations
iinpofe on ours, with them will be the
transfer of those maritime refourccs.
It had been remarked that this fubjeft
is not novel. It is as old as our nation, it
1 as been difcufied from our political birth,
and it lia« exercised the thoughts and at
tention of reflecting persons ever fmce. In
1784 the States, at the recommendation
of Congress, granted for a limited time
certain powers to Coiiorefs, for the regu
lation of our common commercial intereils;
but thii was found ineffectual. The States
then, endeavored to attain this dcfireable
objift by concurrent regulations, which
originated with Mafachufetts, but inef
fectually also Out of this experience rose
the nicafurej that terminated in the exit
ing eliablifhment, with a riew to some per
manent regulations and the vindication of
our commercial rights. This was no more
an object of the eliablifhment of the pre
sent government by the people than it was
their film belief that some regulations on
this head would be one of the firft fruits
of its operations. An attempt was one
of the firft fruits of those operations in the
Hoi.fe, but this firft experiment expired
in tie Senate, and there it fell, not from
a dillike to the principle, but because a
better • mode, it was thought, could be
devised than that proposed.
It vat alio urged, when the qucflion
wasfirft agitated, at New-York, that such
regulations then would not be well timed,
considering that the execution of the trea
ty with Great Britain was yet depending,
and that uegociations for a treaty of com
mei ce might soon be expected to be open
ed. It was thought by some, wife to wait
the event of thole ncgociations, that then
the Legillaturc might proceed on surer
ground, and ast more unanimously. We
have waited; the treaty is not executed,
and we may infer from the communications
of the executive that there is no negocia
tions depending that (houlil stop us. We
have tried to bring about such a negocia
tion, and we have failed ; we have gained
nothing from those nations with whom we
have no treaty, and if we have been favored
by one with whom we have a treaty, it is
no doubt upon the idea that the policy we
at present pursue is but of a temporary
nature. Having seen the end of what was
then pending, we are surely now free to
take such measures as a regard to our in
terest may dictate, and if we find that the
state of our commerce does, not comport
with that interest we are free, and bound
to vary it so as to make it contribute to
our welfare.
The propositions before the committee
fliould be examined as they concern our
navigation, our and the just
principles of discrimination that ought to
prevail in our policy to nations having trea
ties and not having treaties with us.
With refpeft to navigation it was con
ceded even by tile gentleman up yesterday
that our navigation is not upon the fame
footing by the regulations of the two na
tions with whom we have the greatest com
mercial intercourse. With refpeft to G.
Britain, while they carry their own, or
any other produce to any of our ports and
take our own produftious and that only to
part of her dominions ; in her Weft In
dies our velTcls are entirely excluded. The
gentleman from South Carolina, viewed
this part of the fubjeCl in a different point
of light than it struck him, he said. He
(Mr. Smith) considered it as a favour that
our produce (hould be admitted in the
British i (lands, when the fame articles of
the produce of other countries is positive
ly excluded. This exclusion, he answer
ed is merely a matter of form, it is of no
consequence as this is the only country
that can supply those articles; it is a pro
hibition that exists only upon paper but is
never called into exercise.
To exhibit at a glance the effect of the
Britiih navigation ast on our navigation
it is fufficient to compare the quantity of'
American and Britiih tonnage employed
in our intercourse with Great Britain ;
the former, in 1790, amounted to 43,000
tons while the latter was 211,000 tons. —
A change owing to a particular change of
circumstances hastaken place since that pe
riod in favor of the American ; but the
proportion in that year, as lei's influenced
by accident, may with more propriety be
taken for data. Further to shew the ef
fect of Britiih policy he compared the
proportions of the domestic tonnage em
ployed in our intercourse with other Eu
ropean nations, at that period. With
Spain the American was to the Spaniih
as sto I ; with Portugal 6, I ; Nether
lands ij, I ; Denmark 12, I ; France
5, 1 ; Great Britain I, 5. One obser
vation may be deduced from this view of
the fubjeft, that if if was the interest of
this country to extend its navigation as
far as it may be extended, by a transfer of
commercial advantages from Great Britain .
to France, it might be encreafed tenfold.
Gentlemen might wish to know the
proportion which American tonnage bears
to that of foreign nations founded on the
document of the late state of things intro
duced into the house yeilerday j he had
made a calculation on this basis and found
that, with Spain our tonnage is to the
Spanirti ns 16, I ; Portugal 17, i ; Ne
therlands 26, 1 ; Denmark 15, I ; Rus
sia 14, 1 ; France between 4 and J, 1 ;
and Great Britain 1, 3.
This exilting foliation of our commerce
is the more mortifying, when the nature;
and amount of our exports are considered.
Our exports are not only necessaries of life
or necessaries for mannfa&ures, and there
fore of life to the manufacturer, and thence
ought to command a good market where
received at all, but the bulkinefs of them
gives an advantage over the exports of e
very other country. If we chose to adopt
the principle of excluding other nations
from our foreign trade,in order to encreafe
our maritime ttrength, the nation might
secure the carriage of the whole of its ex
ports leaving to other nations the carriage
of theirs. Such a regulation would, to
be sure, be fubjeA to a very considerable
inconvenience, that of returning empty
from the markets to which we exported
our commodities, and therefore would o
perate as a considerable tax upon the in
tcrcourfe, but the leafoning does not lose
weight on this account, and if such a re
gulation was confined to Great Britain
this would be the effect, that Great Bri
tain,inftcad of employing in her commerce
with the United States 222,000 tons and
13320 seamen, oould employ only 66,000
tons and 3960 seamen, and we in our trade
with her, by the fame means, would raise
our number of tons to ij6,qoo and of
seamen to 9360,
He did nut suggest that it ever would
x neceflaryto carry matters to this length
but it was well to fliew how far we have
the right and power to extend our naviga
tion and maritime strength, which view of
tlie matter is a fufficient guarantee against
any inimical viewt which may be formed
to our disadvantage.
[Speech to be coatinued.]
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
October 6.
Letter from Lucombe Saint Michel, Re
presentative to the People in Corsica,
to the President of the Convention.
Calvi, O(Sober 1.
" Citizen President, my letter of the
16th of September, informed you of the
answer which I gave to an English flag of
truce, which I refufed to receive. After
having cut off my communication by sea
with St. Florent and Baftia some English
vefTels gave the fame fummon3 to these two
cities. I know not what was the answer
of the officers who commanded there but I
flatter myfelf that it was Republican. The
English, after having examined Calvi and
St. Florent, being of opinion that the lat
ter place was more accefiible than the
former, was resolved to attack it. The
attack was concerted with Paoli, who had
come down from Corte to Murato, where,
as usual, he prudently kept at a diflance
from the fire. For two days, two vefTels
cannonaded the battery of Fornelli, in the
gulph of St. Florent; Leoneri, Ex-Le
gislator, commanded the land forces, and
had along with him four field pieces, which
the English had given him. The fire was
brisk : we have not, as far as lam inform
ed, loft one Frenchman ; the English ac
knowledged that they loft 17 men, and
had several wounded, among whom is a
Captain of a ship, and Mafferia, a friend
of Paoli, and of rank among the English.
A great storm having arisen during the
engagement, the English re-embarked j
they left the four field pieces Jb the Cor
ficans.—During the night, the French
made a sortie from Bornelli; they attack
ed and pursued the Corficana, and took
from them four pieces of cannon. On
the fame day the Corficans attacked St.
Florent, Patrimonio, Barbagio, and Fu
riani; they were every where repulsed
with loss.
" I received the details by way of the
interior and from confidential persons,
whom I had sent into Nebio. Stfch, Ci
tizen President, are the men who sent to
the bar of the Convention a Ferrandi, a
Conftantini, to declaim against me and my
colleagues ; and to protelt, that the rebel
lious Administration and Paoli wished to
be Frenchmen. I fend to the Committee
of Public Safety a very curious publica
tion. I expect, with impatience, the ap
proach of the English, and of the faithful
fubje&s of Pitfcal, the firft to Calvi. The
enemy know, without doubt, that the ar
tillery of the place is out of order [ but I
am there, and I am every day exercising
21 o cannoneers, who will do them more
mifchief than they are aware of. (Ap
plauded. )
(Signed) " lacombe saint-michel."
The committee of public fafety present
ed a plan for lodging the young men in
requisition at Paris. Ofle|in informed the
Convention, that he had discovered in a
concealed place, twelve hundred mattraf
fes, twelve hundred coverlets and camp
equipage for almost eight thousand men.
These articles belonged to the ci-devant
Count d'Artois. Oflelin demanded that
they (hould be appropriated to the use of
the young men. [Applauded and decreed.]
October 17.
Bunard de Jointer wrote from Mombe
liard, the loth of October as follows :
" I make use of a bit of paper found in
the castle of the Duke of Wurtemberg, to
tell you, that his principality belongs now
to France. After having been informed
that the little Duke had furnifhed hit con
tingent to the allied armies, aud that his
children were in the' Emperor's it-nice, I
have this morning entered Mombeliard
with a battalion of Dole, Jo cavalry and
Tome small artillery. We took the city
without diSculty, nor was there a gun
fired.
" I have laid hold of all the ca(h. Hi
therto I have only found 18,000 livtcs,
7,000 sterling, in specie, there remains
furniture in the castle to the amount of
I J,OOO livres, (6oco sterling) which I
(hall fell. I fliall make haste to get the
corn threflied, and fend it to the army of
the Rhine.
" I (hall form a diftrift, a municipality,
and a club in this town, and sequester all
the domains of the Prince.
" Feudal signs (hall be replaced by the
Cap of Liberty, and 1 (hall try to revive
the confidence of our alfignats, which are
very much dil'credited in this country.
October 18.
Thuriot proposed to sequestrate the ef
fects of all the foreigners put in a state of
arreft.—Referred to the Committee of
Public Safety.
Letter from the Minister of War to the
President of the Convention, dated Pa
ris, October 17, 1793.
" Citizen President, our brave Repub
licans have fought with the (laves of the
despots. The General in Chief is going
to commence new operations."
Letter from Jourdan, General in Chief of
the Army of the North, dated Head
Quarters, Avejeus, October 10. \
" Citizen Miniller, the Republicans
yesterday attacked the Have's. The right
division, commanded by General Duquef
noy, has done wonders. The left division
did not anfwerwhat was expected from it.
The battle lasted from ten in the morning
till the close of night. Our republicans
cofidufted themfelvcs, and fought with a
courage worthy of free men.—The battle
will re-commence to-morrow. I am going
to set out. I hope to fend you good news
to-morrow (Appteufes:)
UNITED STATES.
GEORGE-TOWN, Jan. 9.
Slate of the Hotel Lottery this day.
Gain of the Wheel, 73,095 Dollars.
Tickets in the Wheel, 24,100.
Tickets are therefore worth 1 o Dollars
3 Cents.
Capital Prizes now in the Wheel:—
The Hotel; I of 25,000 Dollars ; los
20,000; 1 of 15,000, and 2 of 5,000.
WINCHESTER, Jan. 6.
From the Knoxville Gazette of Dec. I.
Two Cherokee Indians, a fellow and a
fquavr, taken on the Tenneflee, by Capt.
Harrifon,in a late scout, have been brought
to this place ; they inform, that the town
on the south fide of Hightower River,
where a part of General Sevier's army had
the late combat, is the principal place of
rendezvous for the Creeks and Cherokees
to affcmbk, previous to their coming in
upon the frontiers; this town is princi
pally inhabited by Creeks, and is governed
by a Creek chief, called the Buffaloe-
Horn. Since Gencral'Sevier'sexpedition,
the Indians have done but very little mif
chief on the frontiers of this diftrift ; they
have stolen a number of horses and cattle
from the out settlements, and some small
trails have been seen in different places.
On Monday lalt Nicholas Ball (palling
from Golliber's creek to Wells's station, in
Knox county) was fired on by five Indians,
and received three bullets through his
clothes. In the action which Captain
Evans had at Hightower, Mr. Ball had
two bullets (hot through his hat.
Copy of a letter from Col. James > Win
chester, to Brigadier General James
Robertfon,dated Sumnereounty,Croft's
Mill, Ncv. 9, 1793.
SIR,
" Some horse's having been stolen, and
Indians seen in this neighborhood, I or
dered our Lieut. Snoddy, with thirty men,
to scout the woods about the Caney Folk,
and, if poftible, discover their main en
campment.
" On the 4th inft. be met two, who
fled, and he pursued to a large camp near
the Rock Ifiand Ford of the Caney Fork
where he took 28 good Spanish blankets,
two matchcoats, eight new brass kettle'
one fire-lock, three new swords, SpanilhbWes, a bag of vermillion, powder and
lead, several bayonets, spears, war-hatchets,
bridles and halters. Evening coming on,
withdrew from the camp, about a mile,
to an eminence, where he halted his men,
and laid on their arms all night. About
the dawn of day they appeared advancing,
with trailed arms, and at about thirty
yards distance a firing commenced, and was
kept up, frcm three to fom rounds, when
the Indians retreated, leaving one fellow
on the ground, and were seen to bear off
several wounded. JLieuteuant Snoddv had
two men killed, and three wounded, it is
hoped not mortally. Such couduft and
bravtrv would do honor to veteran troops.
'• I have the honor to be,
" Your obedient humble servant,
" James Winchester."
Brig 1 . Gen. Robertfon,
Mero Diftrifl,
BALTIMORE, J an. 14.
We have the pleasure to inform the
public, that the New Theatre row build
ing and in great forwardnefs in this town,
will be ready to open in three weeks fiom
this date, {hould 110 disappointment or un
expected obftru&ions delay the carrying
011 said building. The citizens of Balti
more may then expect to derive the great
est improvement and mod rational enter
tainment that can flow frcm a well regu
lated Theatre. The company under the
fuperintendanceof MefTrs. Wignell and
Rkinagi e, now perform at Annapolis,
three times a week, viz. on Monday,
Wednefaay, and Friday evenings.
NEW-YORK, Jan. ij.
We are informed, that the Amboy pas
sage boat, which left this place on Christ.
mas last, was driven out to sea, and had
not been heard of until a few days pad,
when as account came, that after having
loft her bowsprit in a heavy gale, (he was
cast away on Long-Ifiand shore, and every
person, (upwards of 20) perilhed. Among
the number were several young jjerfons
whose parents live in this city.
BOSTON, January 4.
The Legislature of the State of Maryland,
has enacted a Law for ere Sing a Bank in
the diflriS of Columbia, one of the objeSs of
rbhichis to facilitate the preparations for the
permanent re/iu'ence of Congress. It is to
tonfifl of 10,000 Jhares of 100 dollars each
Jhttn, andfubfcripttons therefor are opened
at George-town, under the care of Mejfrs.
Samvel Blodget, jun. William Deakins, jun.
Uriah Forreji, John Mason, John Tern
pln.an, and eight other gentlemen mentioned
in {he aB.
IV' underfiand that fubferiptims, for the
release from captivity of our unhappy breth
ren now held in slavery and chains atAlgurs,
are opened in Philadelphia, Ntw-Terk, in
this town, and several other places. May
the God of benevolence inspire the hearts of
those ivho have ability to bjloiu, with the
inclination to forward this nojl humane and
virtuous undertaking !
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 17.
Extra £t of letter from Cadiz, dated No-
vember 6, 1793.
" We have just received advice that the
Emperor of the Eastern part of Moroc
co, Muley Solyman, has declared the coun
try from Salle to St. Crur in rebellion,
and intimated to the Consuls, that in three
months after date thereof, he will fend his
Cruizers to make prize of any velfel ivhich
they meet trading with the intermediate
towns; which let serve for your govern
ment—as that three of the Algerine Fri
gates that were this fide of the Streights
with a Brig, had already returned to the
Streights ; they had no more thaD one
prize with them, her name is not known
■—(he was loaded with flour."
ExtraA of a letter from a gentleman in
Liverpool to his friend in New-York,
dated Oflober 29.
" I have this instant received a letter
from our friend P. H. now in Toulon,
with a cargo of grain from Baltimore ;
he mentions that the Spaniards have been
completely defeated in feveial engage
ments, and are running out of France,
fafter than they came in j that the French
are every where vi&orious, and that the
National Convention sent orders to the
different armies, to be before Toulon by
the fiift of November ; that they may be
fuccefsful is my sincere wish, and that of
every true son of Liberty. That the com
bined arrives have been defeated is true,
but kept from being made pubh'c for fear
of disheartening the, troops, and of en
couraging those who are dilaffedted to the
British government.
" I must now inform you how matters
stand in this country. In several counties
the people have rose up againit govern
ment, with the cry of—No War ! The
militia have been called out, which has
exasperated the people so much, that they
have come to a resolution not to give up,
until they receive a redress of grievances
and no war ; I a fibre you, my friend, it is
really alarmuig and (hould France invade
this country as they have threatened to
do, they will find that a majority of the
people will flock to their standard ; ihould
parliament not make some very great
concessions soon to appease the people,
the event will be the downfall of monar
chy in Great Btitain. The truth of the
above, I will answer for, and you have
my leave to make it as public as possible."
I am your friend and
humble servant,
Events of the above nature may jujl as
easily be kept secret, as a great Jire in a po
pulous city.
EXTRACT.
" The Allied Powers fay, the French
have put to death their King and Queen,
and many honest men Then let them
alone—let them cut one another's throats
till thev are sick of it—by opposing them,
you irritate them, excite treason in the
midst of them, rouse jealousy and revenge
and make them ten times more cruel.
" But their principles are dangerous,
subversive of all order, religion and mo
rals. Then let them alone. Principles
were never yet fupprejfed by force ; on the
other hand, opposition always spreads them.
You provoke enquiry, investigation, curi
osity. You call the attention of all Eu
rope to principles that attack your govern
ments. You stimulate the faculties of
men—you provoke an examination into
the origin of all the corruptions of the
most corrupt fyltcms of dominion. Pam
phlets, Gazettes, private letters, emifla
ries, and even your Sans Culottes prison
ers are, by this w*r, this erufade against
opinions, carried into all parts of Europe,
into Hungary, Prussia and Rtiffia. Tom
Paine, with all the PrelTes in Europe at
his command, could not have spread Re
publican principles so extensively in twen
ty years, as this war has tlone in two.
" .A word then to the allied
Let France alone. Withdraw your ar
mies. The Jacobins \vill then quarrel
with each other, and the Guillotine will
be the fate of one half of them in less
than a year. But while your armies sur
round France, you unite that cltlb of des
perate men ; and millions who hate the Ja
cobins, will notwithstanding rally round
their standard, not to defend their leader/,
but their country Remove your armies,
and the people of France will soon remove
the Jacobins —Bcfidcs you are hastening
your own ruin. An immense debt upon
the French nation, brought about their re
volution. You are all enhancing your oivn
public debts by this foolilh crusade against
principles ; and these debts, when you can
nQ longer manage them, will tumble you
all from your thrones.
Quem Deus vult perdere,prius dcmcntat.
For the Gazettr of the Uxited Stjtis.
FABLE.
An heir just come to his estate,
Whose profpefts were imaienfely great,
Refolv'd, his wealth to realize, —
A noble wood to facrifice; —
By lusty strokes the sorest fell—
The sequel let the fable tell—
He curs'd his folly and his fate,
When fad repentance came too late.
Wife men of Gctham—hear I beg,
Nor kill the eagle for the egg ;—
Your tankingJlock some future day,
May save you from b'ing swept away.
Pcnrfyhania Hospital, I/? Mo. ij.
THE Contributors are requested to
meet at the Holpital on 3d day the 28th
inft. at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, to ex
amine a ground plan, with several esti
mates of the buildings, which are propo
sed to be extended to accommodate a
greater number of Lunatic Patients, and
for other uses. Also to determine the
propriety of building the ensuing season.
By order of a board of Manageri.
SAMUEL COATES, Clerk.
N. B. The Printers of the Newt-Pa
pers in this City, <will u Uge the Contribu
tors, by inserting the above jMvertifeme.it.
At ft general meeting of the Stockhol
ders in the Infurancc Company of North
America, duly imnmoneti, and held at
their office, on the 14th inlt.
It was ordained, that for the better re
gulation and management of the affairs of
the laid S.ockholders,twenty-fire dircdlors
be chosen at "Che present, and all future
ele&ions.
And the following gentlemen were re
turned by the Judges as duly elected Di
rectors for the prelent year, viz.
Joseph Ball Peter Blight
Samuel Blodget John Craig
Thos. FitzHmons Standifh Forde
John Fry, jun. J. Hollingfworh
John Leamy Arch. M'Call
Wm. M'Mutrie Magnus Miller
Tho. L. Moore John M. Nefbitt
Philip Nicklin Charles
Robt. Ralfton John Rofs
Robt. Smith Walter Stewart
John Swanwick Thos. Tingey
John Vaughan Francis Welt
John Wilcocks.
J- T.
The Directors met on the 15th inft.
for the purpose of rhoofing a President,
and upon examining the ballots,it appear
ed that John M. Nesbitt, Esq. was
unanimously re-ele&ed.
Extract from the Minutes,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'y.
Jan. 16th, 1794.
FROM A CORRESPONDENT.
The practice of private persons andfelf
created clubs, oflei'iiig addrefies to foreign
ministers is a very pretty one. It gives
room for a minister who abhors the mvfte
ry and foppery of courts to pradtife in
cabinets affairs—that is to fay, as the
faihion now (lands in the out of dcor-buii
nefs, the candor and franknefs he so much
admires. The dangerous damps and va
pors of intrigue are difiipated, when the
tali is held and belts and wampum exchan
ged in the open h'ght and air. Foreign
ers when they rca4«ji?- newspapers will be
confirmed in their <?d belief, that we are
half Indians—that our tribes meet under
the trees and receive presents from foreign
envoyS, and smoke with them the pipe of
peace. Several of our Jacobins promise
as much loyalty to France, as the Long-
Illand and Genefee tribes profefs to the
State of New-York.—Will they not fay,
those wild Arab* of the American woods
have no regular government, because it is
plain theynegotiatewithoutany: Eachman
appearing in his own person according to
the state of nature, to hear what an envoy
has to fay. It is aifo plain fay they, that
these Arabs are not Independent in their
government, because they are obliged to
profefs to this foreign agent, more refpeft
and affection for his government than for
their own. .
COMMUNICATION.
It seems the report, " of Citizen Genet'i
having attempted to raise an army of 5000
Americans at South-Carolina," (Hie a for
mer report) turns out to be something like
a lie ! It is, therefore, rather to be regretted,
tnat a certificate was not obtained upon the
occasion from the chief-juftice of South-Ca
rolina, -which might have been here recorded,
with a former one.
[GreenleaPs Pat. Reg.]
In the trial of the late Queen of France,
that perogative of death, which redfoning
mortals cannot be supposed to exercise, but
•with c'trcumfpcßion,folemnity and awe, ap
pears to have been attended with circumHan
ees, which Jlrihe humanity to its mo/i keen
vibration/. The prisoner at the bar, has
rights ; nor can the chains of death disfran
chife him from a claim to tenderness. That
the criminal may die—is it not enough that he
Jhould be condemned on full conviSion ?
Why then Jhould a defencelefsfemale,on whom
nature has conferred the rights of proteSion
and tenderness from mankind—be flailed at
the bar of jujlice, with an accusation of no
weight in her condemnation—Such as could
mlyjiag her with a new devised torment
such, as its bare probabiTtty would be a dif
grace to nature ; as there does not extfl in
nature a pojfibility to acknowledge.
tc otum. Ga%S\
<&" The Sulfcribert to the Ne<a> Theatre
ire rtqueftcd to meet at the City Tavern to
morrow evening the 18th injt. at 6 o'Clock,
to rueive the report of their Committee.
HENRTHILL, CHAIKMAK.
Coiivrtfs of the United Stati
'
«7* «7<M
The aiticlc in the French langii?
which accompanied tlie meflage 01 (
Prelidcut of the United States nccivn)
yesterday, is a navigation ast pafied l>y
the National Convention the 271)1 Septem
ber last.
A memorial was read From A. G.
1' rauiiciß, praying for a copy of the report
on his petiu d, &c. laid 011 the table.
After reading and rjfering fotne Qthdr
petitions, the hoiife went into committee
of tlit; whole, on the appropriation bill—
Mr. Trumbull in the chair.
The committee proceeded in the dif
cufiioif, during which, Mr. Baldwin rofi
repeatedly, for the purpose of enquiring
into the excess of »ai ious funis appropri
ated for contingencies and other purposes,
above the sums heretofore appropriated—
his object was, tiiat a committee lhouic be
appointed to make particular enquiry into
the reasons of theie excefies, and to ic
port. A motion was at length nude
and carriud, for the rising of the commit
tee. In the house Mr. Baldwin r ..1..: a
motion for the appointment of a fpccial
•ommittce, to enquire into the cause of,
and report on the expediency of these cx
ceffcs—This irhotion was agieed to, and a
committee of five appointed.
The House took. into consideration the
report of the Secretary o' the Treafurv 011
the memorial of Daniel Parker—the Ij'j
itance of the report is, that it may lie for
the interest of the United States, ty com
pound the debt due from the mcmoriaiitt,
and suggests the expediency of veiling a
power foniewhere to make the competi
tion.
It was moved that a committee flicul \
be appointed to prepare and report a bi.'l
pursuant to the report of the Secretary of
the XYeafury—fome debate ensued on tliit
motion, it was opposed on the score of
precedent—and that it might be better tor
the United States to loie the debt, than
to eflablifh a precedent which might open
a door to every delinquent debtor of the
United States.—lf the mtmorialilt is an
honest and has any property, he
will throw himfelf on the justice and hu
manity of his country. —The coudiufi of
the petitioner in withdrawing from his
country, and his consequent deportment
were reprobated.
In support of the motion, it was said,
that the only qucftion was, whether the
United States would insist on receiving the
whole oT their demand, and get noth; :/•>*«
or compromise their demand and receive?
something.
1 his it was fa id, was not establishing a
precedent ; it was simply fallowing the
custom established in all hmilar cases by in
dividuals—it was true that public bodies
adopt generally a more rigid line of ccn
du&, and perhaps with propriety in moik
cases—but in the present mftance the me
morialist is out of the country, out of the
reach of the laws ; he is able to pay
something-, but is not willing to be diver
ted of all bis propey, y and be Hill bound
to discharge a balance he never can pay*
Mr. Nicholas proposed the folkwin£
motion as a substitute for the ftril tWAtioc,
—that a committee be appointed to en
qure whether D. Parker and Co. any
equitable or other claims to a rt<littion of
the balances which appear agavirft them,
on the books of the tteafury of fh'. £' ,'u
ted States, and report fpeeially thereon
to the house.
This motk>n after some further debate
was agreed to, and a committee of three
appointed*
It was then voted thai the House pro
ceed to the coafideration of the report of
the feleft committee on the memorial of
Andrew G. Frauncis—feme convcrfstiou
epfued refpe&iftg the discussion of this re
port with open galleries, on account of a
communication of a confidential nature,
made to the feleft committee-—TThe rule
of the House, the SpeiJcer observed, re
quired that the queltion fcr closing the
galleries (hould be privately difcufled, on
which it was ordered that they (houid be
cleared.
STOLEN,
A few days ago, from No. 6, Lstitia Court.
A Silver Table-Spoon,
Marked I. C inake.'i name R. H Wh<K»ei
returns said Spoon t«theo#aer, fliai! re c -; V e
One D"H" reward, and no qucftions aftctl
N. B Sil\ erfmictn and otlrers ire reqi r&ed
to flop laid spoon, il'offeied tar Tale, and give
notice as above.
Jan. f 7«
L|lift Inrporred
1
}
• iATHICW CARKY,
it:. Mi.-t.:
V . u
A <V
COLLECTION of BOOKS,
Ai;r»;»£ wlvi.ii a:\ tnc !'<•. >>
NK'V Annual llegilier for 1 79 2
European Magazine lot the fir ft 1»
oralis «»♦' I 793
decline ami fall of tlx? Roman
sol" rh« M.incbclter ft>c*.:ty, 3 vois.
GSM
Men
Pricftly «n matter and ipirit
*s lite of D". Jortin
Kingv ille's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Jolt
Meiat)\ a collation of e flays
Varidpf Prussia's works
Cain observer—by Mackintosh
KuTelA anc e, rand mode n Europe
T- .ngho* ne's Plutarch
E'? .t exfr jcls f : i!pe»'bly fi'lt
El.i r a »t extracts <<!* ra» nral Iv.ftory
Sai ' 'ie avJ B-'lion's voyage
R u-hon'-. v j .t -,e to
T-) •• 'etna's 'ri-rtU-in Spain
T I]*'s Jerusalem ox vered
e'< ri-,i..a: > oi Btnton
Jjz\wick'- iio; v ol quadrupeth
B r>n bri.lerd
H'ftory ofhitds.
pi i!»d * h'lt'Tv of inland navigation
H > ■ ?e: 's rational recreations
II jof F'ance, i:i 3 vols.
C'irioGt e- of literalu t, vols.
W'nt.iker's d-fence of qiieen Mary
Sheridan'* dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's hifto v of Hndoftan
Sketches f rlie Hindoos
Key to vinte lirerature.
I lily's d-Hcriprion of Kentncky
Pie r enf (late of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
P on masonry
Lav*\trr on > lyfinj noiny, abridged
Zi fnrvey
Momny's .'eof D [ . Johnton
Nrcke - on executive power
KirtV- of
Galk-ry of portraits
rnins of empires
Travels
Vj Slant's t.v «- th superb c igravings
D unan's infnncy
.Adai '> of American Ind "s
Be-'in?ion or: materialifin and ; m::ia enalifm
Be - "cho!d' . dvice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Kon's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's defcriptioo o: C.bina
Mn-Dhy's translation ot Tacitus
G>d*rin on pol tical justice
Gnretteer of France, 3 vo^
H : ius on man
K .if s'" of the biftory of mat
Li ) "-a! 'pi .ion*, or the history of Benignus
M I've'- 'ardener's d-ftionary
N Ve's memoirs oft lie Cromwell family
Piayhoufr di<sHonary
Reveries of sol tude
Smith's theory of moral fentimenti
Stackh»m r e's history of the bble
Wa' f > 's life of Philip lid & Hid.
"Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wan ley's wonders of the little world, called
Wall s on the prevention of diseases
Moore's jmrnkl in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruflia,Poland,&rc.
Cox's travels in W Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Ma let's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grgg's advice to femules
Hamilton's oMtlines of the practice of mid-
wifery
Manning's pra&iee of physic
Clcghorn's diseases of Minorca
In *es on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Ouincy's d fpenfa*ory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's d benfatory
Ryan on the aftlima
Robert o i's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake o-» t ie viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nichoflon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering o o rhe fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's phyfiologv
Spalanzane's duTertations
London practice of physic
Bell's surgery
Cbaotal's chemistry.
MONEY or loaned, accounts ila
ird or 4Mllr£)<d, employers fuiied with
domcft r% houfr nv>mt, braid'ngand lodging
fceiitrd. let or procured—loft if *1, mariner's,
or mi'.itia mcn'i pay, land* and claims on the
public ; fharcj in the bank*, in ihe canali. and
the turnpike road : ccmfir;.ie» grouted by the
public, ~nd the old and lste uaper monirs;
notes of hand, hi lU. bonds and n'orjrapca, with
or withiiit drp»»'-M« —Bought, fold, or £ego
ciaird at No. 8, in Couth Sixth ftrcet, below
Market-ft.cct b / FRANCIS W HITE,
Who uaiilatU %»ufinef* in ihs public offiaes for
country pcop'c and others, by virtue of a pow
er nf attorney, or by peifonal application.
Dccctn'jer 11 d
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MA Kb li,
In Mullxirry ; Arct ) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying-
fbretit
ground,
rhis opportunity of returning his
1 grateful thank-? to his former employers,
and requ'ftibg ti»cii future favors, as well as
thole oi the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
(hoi test notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coache-, chariots, phaetons with and
without crawe necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reen<, wiudlor fulkeys and chaiis, and harness
of every defeviption, in the neatest and newest
t'afhion now prevailing *n the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, art! capital workmen, he has
not the least donbt but he will be able to give
fati«fa&ion to tho e whopleafe to employ him
He has for sale, several carriages almost
finiQied, such as coachees, an Italian wind for
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaeton for
.jd -i key with a falling
top,
rriages fold on Commiilion
* ;Ui•; c .. • i L
.r . j-v-A
t<. vtifhiji, in the State of Pennsylvania,
»Icd; are ticfirecl to
to Jacob LbsHer anil Willi am Creed,
lkYuid, al-ore- vid,) Executors and Ad
tor; »i the above in osder for fetrle
,\ d w 1 otver i ; indebted to said Ef
make payment to
Adminiftratoi *•, on or before the
cb, 1791, or they will be dealt
count
ir< i ■ (;
tatc,&
.1 ".'C .«
(••■ M
Stock
No. 16, Wall-ftrcct, New-York.
THfc Siibfcribci intending »<-confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
siofcks on COMMISSION, begs leave to of-
~i. i •• it kt,c j s and others, in the
r n ?yc:k Bi k'r, I !it,K who may p!ea(<
to favor hina with their bufincic, may dtp-nd
upon ha. ing >t trania&ed wnb the u-.rnoll fidc
li-v and d>fpa:ch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other pari of the Unitrd States, will be ftriftly
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
B »'.»k.c-;ier, at t Stouc HtniTe, in Second-
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Of A ts, See nee*, and Miscellaneous
Literatu: e, on a Plan entirely new;
Th? D *f?
dr<? chgejled into the form of
T:IIS volume contains principles of Levels,
D >strine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lou
don, Lo.igicude. Luther, Lydaa, Macedon,
Magic, Magnetiftn, Malts, His-
rprjr of M in, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha-
uics. with a great variety of Biographical and
Mifceilaneous articles, tHuftrated with Twen-
ty two Copperplates
As a number of families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. Dobfon, foKcits the favor
o* the fubferibers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poflible.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an impcrfed state, forae ac
count of the reason of that iinperfeftion ftiould
be liven. On the Bfh of September last, the
Publiftier had the misfortune of having his
Printing Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the figures, with
which he was printing the tables op lo
garithms, l>e ; »ng ng to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence of tlwfire.
As a fupiily of these could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the neceflity of pub
liihing the volume without the e ta;les; but
hoj>es he (hall be able to publish them with the
next volume which is now in coniiderable for-
w .i dnefs.
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
expressing his grateful acknowledgments t«
the generous pubi c, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of reprefenti igto such of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible neceflity of
punctuality, both in taking up he volumes as
early as poflib'e after publication, and of pay_
ing for them when taken. Many of the fub
feribers having got only one, two, three, &c.
volumes, a:»d several volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its differentftages
from the commencement; and though tw im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpaid lays the Publisher ander
very serious embarraflment, and deprives him
of the ufc of many Tlu>uf«nds»f Dollars which
at this time would be of very efTential ferrice.
For tbefe reasons the Publi(her finds hrmfelf
under the neceflity of recurrirg to the or ; gina|
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those who
take and pay to the time of publication.
December io.
mi'" 3»"
Ja 6, 1 794
...i i.ann.n
t\ , r M's. MARY
ii'kford, Ox-
w. late of
mhtce their ac-
t&ftf
>!, !>?t. 16.
Brokers Office,
LEONARD BLF.ECKER
Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
BY ITHICH
aawtl J.
A New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold b;
R. A IT KEN,
No. 22, Marketflrctti
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philadelphia, for promoting Ufeful
Knowledge, Vol. 3. Pjice 20/in boards
(tr?" The subscribers are reqoetted to call
as a')ove directed for the vol. where may
b# had, complete f'etts uniformly printed.
Contents of Vol. 3d.
1. An efTiyon those enquiries in Natural Phi.
lofaphy, which at present aremoft benefici
ai to the Uniled States of North America.
Dr. Nicholas Col * in,
2. Conje&ures concerning the formation of
the earth, &c. Dr. B. Franklin.
3. A new and curious theory of Light and
Heat. Dr. B. Franklin.
4. Dcfcript on of the process to be observed
in making large (heetsof paper in the Chi
nese manner, with one smooth furface.
Dr. B. Franklin.
5. Queries and conjectures relative to Mag
netism, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
6. Explanation of a singular phenomenon, fir ft
observed by Dr Franklin, and not fatisfac
to ily accounted for. Mr. R. Patterjon.
7. Am account of an Earthy Subftawce found
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of tbe Falls; together with
foine remarks on the Jails.
Robert M'CavJfiny M. D.
8. Obfervat'ons on the probabilities of the
duration of Hninan L fe, and the progress
of population, in the United States of Ame
rica. William Button, Esq.
9. A letter containing observations made at
Lake Erie, on that singular phenomenon,
by seamen termed looming.
Andrew Elite »t EJq.
10. An Account of the Sugar Maple-Tree
of the United States, and of the methods
of obtaining Sugar from it, together with
observations upon the advantages both pub
lie and private of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rujh, M.D.
11. Memoir on the use of the Thermometer
in discovering Banks, Soundings, &(.
Jonathan Williams, Esq.
12. An Account of the most effectual means
of preventing the deleterious consequences
of the bite of the Crotulus Horriduj, or Rat
tle Snake. Benjamin Smith Barton, M. D.
13. Magnetic Observations, made at the Uni
versity of Cambridge, (MafTachn/etts.)
Dr. S. Wxlha.ms.
14. Accurate determination of the right as
cension and declination of Bootes, and the
Pole Star. Andrew Ellicott, Esq.
15. Account of several Houses in Philadelphia,
struck with Lightning, on June 7th, 1780.
David Rittenhoufcy Esq.
16. An Account of the effects of a stroke of
Lightning on a House fumifhed with two
Conductors. David Rittenhoufe, and Francis
Hopkinfon, F.fqrs.
17. Experiments and Observations on Evapo
ration in cold Air. C. Wijlar, As. jj
18. Postscript to Mr. Barton's Letter to
Dr. Rittenhoufe, of the 1y t 0 f March, '79,
19. New Notation of Music.
Mr. /?. Patter Jon.
20. Observations on the Theory of Water
Mills, &c. ]V. Waring.
19. Astronomical Observations.
David Rittcnkoufc.
20 A lette r relative to a method of finding
the sum of the several powers of the Sines
&c. David Rittenhoufe, f ft.
21. Index Florae Lancaftricnfis.
Hcnrko Muhlenberg, D. 7).
22. Inveftieation of the power of Dr. Bar
ker's Mill, as improved by James Runiley,
with a description of the mill. W. Harm*.
23. A Thermometrical Journal of the tun
perature of the Atmosphere and Sea, on a
voyage to and from Oporto, with explana
tory observations thereon.
"Jonathan Williams, £Jf.
24. Fi ft memoir of observations on the plants
denominated Cryptogamick.
M. De Beanvois.
25. A letter, containing observations on the
ancient works of Arr, the Native Inhabi
tants, &c. of the Western Country.
Major Jonathan Heart.
26. An account of feme of the principal dies
employed by the North American Indians.
Extracted by the late Mr. Hugh Mar tin.
11 An account of the beneficial effe&s of the
Caflla Chanizcrifta in recruiting worn-out
lands, and in enriching such as are natural
ly poor ; together with a botanical defcrip
tiori of the plant.
Javri Green wa) of Virginia.
28. An account ot a hilf on the borders of
North Carolina, Miooofed to have been a
volcano, in a lerte- from a Continental of
ficer, to Dr ~f. Grecnnay % Virginia.
29 An Account of a poiforinti* plant, grow
ing fpontaneouflv in the fourhefn part of
Virginia. Ex:- a<sed fror: a paper bv
Dr. Jame> (jr&Bwju. Viigjri*.
%->. Deft ription of a Macuine » • fueaiurir.g a
(bip's way. Francis rfcph'fon FJq.
31. An I iqu'rv into fbe qoeftion, whether the
Apt* Me'Hfica, or t ne Honey D-e, is a na
tive of America. £fij*mtn th B*u*uM.D.
32. An Account of a ( net.
Dai,id Riltenk§nfc, EJq,
33. Cadmus or a Trent fc oji,th e Elements of
Wrrrte-i Language, illoftratinp, by a Philo.
fophica! (ftvifion of «Sp cch, f e power r>t
each charade 1, thereby mutually fixing the
Orthography a d Orthoepy. With an Eifci
oa the mode «f teaching the Deaf, or Said
aHd consequently ,Dumb to speak, by W'm.
Thornton, M. D. Honored with the Ma
gellanic Gold Medal * by the Philof»>phica4
Society, in December, 1792. N. B.
Cadmus is prinred in a fine 8. vok and fold
by the Publllher hereof. ,
34 Obfervatiou® on the Theory of Water-
W. Waring,
35- An Improvement on Metalic Conductors
or L : ghtnii"n* rods. Mr. Rvkcrt Patterjtm.
Mills.
Honored with the Magellanic Premium, by
an Award of the Society in December 1792.
36. An easy and expeditious method of dis
sipating tl»e noxious Vapour commonly
found in Wells and other subterraneous
places. kUnezer Robivfon, ffq.
37* A method of draining P>nds in level
grounds. JcfJe Higginr.
38. Obfervationi on the feveritv of the win
ter, 1779, 1780. Rev. Matthew WUfon.
39. A Description of a new Standard for
Weights and Mcafure*:; io a letter from
Mr. John Cooke, of Tipperary in Ireland.
43, Description of a Spring-Block, designed
to alfilt a VefTel in failing* Francis Hopkin-
fon y Ej'tr. Honored wjtU the Magellanic
Go.d Medal, by an Award of the Society
in December 1790.
December 20.
ADVERTISEMENT
FOR the benefit of thofc maybe con
cerned it may not be improper to notice,
that the United States, by their Ast ot the lath
of February 1793, ordered that all Claims of
the defcriptiou cherein mentioned, and which
originated previous to the 4th of March 1789:
be profented at the Treasury on or before the
flrft day of May 1794, otherwise they will
44 for ever thereafter, be barred, and exclu
-44 ded from settlement or allowance.'' And
as there may be several Creditors of the Uni
ted States, holding Certificates 01 other Se
curities, which form a part of the Doi??e(tic
Debt, and who wilh to fubferibe to the Loan,
they are reminded that the term for receiving
fnbfcriptions at theTrea nry, is by the Ast of
the United States, pafled thefecond of March
IaIV, extended to the last day of June, 1794*
The following is an extaft from the Act of
Limitation above referred to :
Sfction I. 44 Be if enacted by the Senate
and House of" Representatives of the United
States of America, in Congress alfembled—
Thar all claims upon the United States, for
Services or Supplier, or for other canfe, mat
ter or thing, furn'tfljed or done, previous to
the 4th day of March 1789, whether founded
upon Certificates, or other written documents
from Public Officers or otherwi e, which have
not already been barred by any Ast of Limi
tation, and which (hall not be presented at
fr'h* Trtafury before the firft day of May 1794,
{hall for ever after be barr«d and prescribed
from settlement or allowance : Provided,
that nothing herein contained, shall be coo
ft ued to affect Loan-Office Certificates, Cer
tificates of Final Settlements, Indents of In
terest, Balances entered in the books of the
register of t'ie treasury commonly called regis
tered certificates,loans of monies obtained ii»
foreign countries, or certificates iflued pu' i'B
ant to the Ast, in titled 44 An Ast, making pro
vision for the Debt of the United States.
ADVERTISEMENT.
New-Jersey, £ T)Y virtue of a Writ to me
Suflex County. $JD direficd, issued out of
the High Court of Chancery of New-Jrrfev, at
the suit of William Shipley against John Ming
and other? ; I (hall expose tofaleat Publis Ven
due, on the sixth day of February next, between
the hours of Twelve and Five in the Afternoon
of the fame day, 011 the Prcmifes, the following
defciibcd Ti ail of Land, With its appurtenances,
fnuate in the Townthip of Oxford and County
o! Suflfex, beginning at a Chefout Oak Tree, cor
ner of Daniel Cox's land, and Handing io the
line of a former fuivey made to Thomas Steven
son, being maikcd with the letter B. and thsnoe
extending aiongCexe's line (fit ft) louth fifty tle
giees well fifty-five chains and feventy-five links
to a Black Oak Treecorner of Joseph Shippen's
land (second) south nine degree* and fifteen mi
nutes, weft ninety chains and sixty five links t«
a forked White Oak Tree, maiked with the let
ters P and B another of the said Shippen's cor
ners (third) thence north eighty degrees, east one
hundred and forty-five chains, to a pofl on the
foutherlv fide of Paqnaofte-River, being alio a
corner of John Reading's land (fourth) thrnce
north thirty-nine degrees well, one hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place of beginning
containing nine hundred and thirty acres
the usual allowance for roads and high ways
The fame Premises are within eight miles of the
River Delaware, and there is thereop a conveni
ent Grift Mill with two pair of Stone?—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fuffceient ftrcam of
H-stfx for their use—a Dwelling House. Store
and several small building.
MARK THOMPSON, Sheriff.
Dared ssd day of July, 1793.
E. Oswald,
No. 156, Market-Street, South,
A T the request of a number of f-ierrt?,
V proposes pubiifting Tl»e Independent
Gazetteer, twice a week, viz WedneUiavs
and Saturdays—to commence in January next,
if fuflkcient encoei agement offers
It Tvill be publifhcd on Paper ami Types
equal to its ptefcnt appearance. *f*!ie fub
ftription X t Hollars per ann.
A dvcrti foments not exceeding a fqaare,
wiH 1-* Hilferted 1 times for 1 dollar—eveiv
continuance one fifth of a dollar. Tho r e «x
---ceedjHg a square, in th# fame proportion.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printid by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
eod2w.