evening ad v e r t I s e r.
[No. i 26 of Vol- v.] Friday, May 9, 175)4. [Whole No. 522.]
For Sale or Chaiter,
ANDROMACHE,
(An American bottom)
. John Moore, J&afler.
It a ftnut good ve(T,l, about two years old,
burthen 2$ tons, has only raa*c three- y
~es and may be fe-.t to sea at a fmil ex-
J.ence. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made knojn bv c3"«n to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
March 2t. -— j
Jf3\ For Baltimore,
BALTIMORE,
Vkkry Bex son, Matter.
Bntthen about 143 ions, is intended to (ail
ae foou as her itnvaid ca>go i* di [dialled, uu
lefs freight fhoul'd .ff«r to detain her.
For freight :*pply to the Captain 011 boa'd
at Hamilroi what «,oi to
SAMUEL Lf IvIIERS FISHER,
IVbo have for Salt,
A FEW PIPES
Cargo Teneriffe wine
And a lew pipes Sweet Do.
Excellent Sherty Wine in quarter calks
London Porter in 42 gallon calks
White 'and Red L<ad and Spantfh Brown
Tin plates in boxes
Anaff rtment of East India Fans, Nan
keens and S iks
With a general affoTtment o1 Merchandize
as ufnat c
Jx* M<>. 5, 1794 - >
For Amsterdam,
j_ The new faft-failingj copper-
Jl b attorned SHIP
MM ADRIAN A,
K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and in
tended for a I jvel'po&l 1 rider, will foil with
jlTconvenient fpeeii. I 7 or freight or paflage,
accommodations, apply on
board'at Wilnilt street wlir:.- 1 ", or to
THOS. o v JOHN KETLAN!).
N. B. PaiTengers will be lauded in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794 dtf
Far Norfolk Iff Fredericks burgh,
£ SALLY,
John Earl, Matter.
A (launch good vessel, will fail in a few
days. For freight or p (Tage, apply to the
matter cn board at Chefiiut street wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONY SON.
March •}!. dtf
Jail Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amilerdam, and now landing
on Wahi;\t-!treet wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A f'-w bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland SheetipQ,
firniper Berries,
Glass Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, -va
rious Jizes.
Sheathing Paper,
Suedes Iron, fqitare and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Oreat Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c.&c.
FOR SALF. BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
, The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
Pcoiddapplication be made within a few days ;
other'wife Jh( will take freight for Amjler
dam.
March 1, 1794. d—tf
The following Certifi
cate of the funded three per Cent Stock of the
Domcftic Debt of the Uniicd S'.atcs (landing on
the books of the Treasury of the said United
States, in the names of Donnald and Burton of
London, merchants. ami signed by Joseph
Kourfe, Register of said Treasury, to wit:—
No. 5476, dated 24 b August 1792 for 29,59
dollar- ai\d 53 cents -*aj transmitted from Lon
don in the (hip Peter, Paul Huffey, master,
bound for New York, and has been loft.—
The Subfcnber intending to apply to the Trea
sury of the United Stales to have the fame re
newed, dcfiies all prrions who are intereftcd in
the feici cemficatr, 10 make their objections
iheicto, ;f any they have.
Francis Macy.
Philad. March 17. d6w
notice.
THE SuWcriber acquaints the gentlemen and
ladies, Retailers of Dry Goods, that
On Monday the nth injl.
At 9 o'clock'in the morning, lie will have rea
dy lorfale, at his Wholesale Warehoufe,No.
117, north Second street, opposite to M£f
frs. I. \V. and Win. GibKs,
A NEAT PARCEL
DRY GOODS,
Ju/i imported in theJbip IVUUum Penn,frbm
Loud-an,
ConfHling of an alTortment of
Sattins, modes & persi
ans, narrow corded Din.ities, and
Aiine India MufJ r>s.
Louis Ofmont,
Who has also for fall,
A QUANTITY Of
Looking Glalfes, Framed,
Claret in'&les of fu;>c ior ility,
Champaigne Wine, and a test
Buxes Spermaceti Candles. .
May 7- -
Wharton and Greeves,
Have iemoved their Counting Hone frOm
Waft" street, to Morion'-, wharf,
Where they have for Sale,
Madeira and Iherry Wine,
jit for immediate use
Gin in cases,
Souchong Tea,
Black Pepper,
Russia Matts,
Corks,
Jtfuits Bark,
Coffee, a><d
Eight] Hhds.prime Tobacco.
Mays. d —fit-
City of Washington.
THE Subscribers to the Articles of Agree
ment of the u Coluinbian Society*' are re
qafffbdd to mcetnarr Mr. Ridiardet's Tavern
in the city of Philadelphia, oh Monday the
26th day of the pnelent month, at 12 o'clock
in order, to choose a board of Managers, &c.
in conformity with the 9th article of their a
greeinent.
Ja-mes Greenleaf.
N. B. Dinner will b" ordered 011 the Table
at 3 o'clock for f'uch of the Subscribers as
may choose to pafe a social hour after the
pulinels of the day is finiHied.
May 5 dc9.6M.
A«tlvertifement.
M. CARPENTIER, an inhabitant of Si.
Domingo, going to Baltimore in the ftage,loft
on bis route, the sth is ft a POCKET BOOK
containing several letters and papers, parti
cularly a draft for 8253 livres or one thouiand
dollars, in favor of MelTYs Zacharie Coup
man and Co. of Baltimore.
Whbever shall return thep ocket book and
pipsrs to M. Carpcntier at Baltimore, or to
the Printer hereof, fhal. be recompensed for
th-ir trouble.
May 7 d3t
POR sale,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. i,B.
' - Mai ket-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery,
Defjgned to exhibit in a new point of view
its effects on morals, indnjiry s and the peace of
feciety. Some rafts and calculations are offered
to prove the labor of freemen to be much more
productive than tha-t oi [laves ; that coumriesjare
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion a? the
laboring people enjuy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence £he nfceffaiy conciufion, that
flavcry is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February 15.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogsheads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
aiso,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,,
In pipei, hopftitads and calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front Ureet.
Tan- 2, 1794 . dtf
Advertisement.
«. •
The Editor of the American Star propos
ing to publifti hi's paper DAILY, without any
augmentation of the prefentpiice, is obliged
to suspend the publication et it until the 15th
inft. on account of some arrangements.
May j 3t
Treasury Department.
Revenue-Office, May 7 th, 1794-
NOTICE is hereby given, thai Pfopofals
will be received at the Office ot the Couimif
(lo »er ot* the Revenue, for/Ship Timber of
the folio* ing kinds, suitable for the building
of the Frigates authorized by Law. A par
ticular detail of the sizes and proportions will
be communicated, on application at the said
Oiiice.
White Oak c i imber and Plank.
98 Piecei of various Dimensions, includ
ing Keels, Floor and Rising Timbers,
See. for a Vessel of 140 or 150 feet
Keel.
27,0dd Feet of Plank, Scantling, Wale
ii pieces, Bilge Streaks, Clamps, &c.
~ 200 Logs, for'varioiis uses.
? Pitch Pine.
* 25,000 Feet of Plank for Decks.
*S 210 Beams, from 42 to 28 feet long, and
2 from 10 by 12 to 15 by 18 inches thro*.
53,000 Locust Treenails, 18, 24 and 30
inches long.
Feet of Inch and half-inch Cedar
Boards.
30,006 Feet of Yellow Pine Boards and
Scantling.
Persons willing to supply any part of tqe
b -ve Timber fgr one Ship, or in proportion
>0' the whole fix, will make their Proposals
accordingly.
tu&fjw.
Concluding Sales.
THE Sublcribet haying entered into Co
pai tnerfhip with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the of Sugar Refining, will dispose
of the
Remaining Stock on hand
consisting of
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By Wholesale at Prime Cojl for Cajh.
John Dorfey,
No. 22, North Jd flreet.
Apri! 1 2. tnth&rs6w
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SO LD BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
No. 41, south Second Jlreet,
Extract of a letter from a gen
tleman in America to a friend in England, on
the Subject of Emigration—price 1 -Bth of a
dollar.
Eccltfiajlical EJlalliJhments detrimental to
a State.
Price I 8 of a Dollar.
April m'*&fyv
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
TJiE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASJi SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b<gs leave to of
fer his fervicesto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
upon having it tranfa£led with the uimoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will be ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&thtf
UNITED STATES.
NEWBEDFORD, April 26.
Arrived, (hip Diana, of Dunkirk, Capt.
Timothy JLong, from Coast of Brazil
whale cruise, 1000 bbls. Whale Oil: Also,
{hip Rebecca, of this port, Capt. Kersey,
1000 bbls. Whale Oil. Dec. 25th lat. 45
S. spoke ship Hector, Thomas Brock,
150 bbls. Whale Oil, bound to the Coil
of Peru.—The above (hips bring informa
tion of the following vefTsls belonging to
Nantucket—3oth Dec. Grafton Gardner,
400 bbls.—2oth Jan. Paul Worth, 800—
Jonathan Coffin, 700 —William Fofdick,
600—Seth Folger4oo—George Pollard,
400 —Peter Myrick, 400 —Andrew Bar
nard, 600—Albert HufTey, yoo—Wiliam
Clafoy, Zoo —and Valentine Swain, 900,
all on the Coast of Brazil Ships from
England on the Coast of Peru, Daniel
Coffin, 1200 Whale and zoo Sperm—
Benjamin Swift, 1000 Whale and 4 00
Sperm.
Capt. Kersey was boarded on his home
ward paiTage by a Briti(h fiigate, but re
leased in a few minutes.
Foreign Intelligence.
BRITISH HOUSE OF COMMONS,
March 17.
LA FAYETTE.
( Continued.)
Mr. Pitt, in the view of the fubjeft in
which he saw it, and the single point which
he conceived called for the conlideration of .
the House, in order to their decilion upon
the prefcnt question, did not conceive it ne
ceflary to follow che Honorable General thro'
a variety of topics which he had so ably alid
humanely urged, but which, in his opinion,
did not lead to that conclusion which it was
neceflary for them to look to. In narrowing,
however, the view which he meant to take
of the fubjedl, he d d not mean to be suppo
sed to agree to many of the positions laid
down by the Hon. General. Ofthefe topics,
one was the character drawn of M. Fayette,
which the laudable warmth of friendfhip
had depicted so highly; but of which, as
he entertained nearly the opposite sentiments,
he wilhed to decline fayinj any thing, but
merely that he was by no means ready to
admit the redlitude of his conduit upon ma
ny of those occasions which had been the
fubjeA of praise. Another point which he
was not inclined to aflent to; that those gen
tlemen weie confined contrary to the law of
war and of nations. It was admitted that
the capture of M. Fayette was by an enemy,
wh,t> could know nothing of him but as an
enemy and one who the day before actually
commanded the hostile army which we were
opposing; but it is said, that he was taken
in a neutral country; admitting this to be
true, the violation was only towards that
power whose Sovereignty was violated, and
could not be complained of as between the
two hostile armies. But the principal Objec
tion stated by the Hon General was, the treat
ment with which these unfortunate captives
were opprefied by the King of Prussia.—
Whatever that treatment might be, it was a
measure entirely of an independent fqve
reign, in which we could not be stated to
have a«y, interference, either in its com
mencement, or its continuance; and to in
terfere with whom, in what pafled within
his own dominions, would be to depart from
the feledted and well-known rules eflablithed
betwe#n independent states, and setting our
selves up as the guardians of the consciences
of foreign states. But what were the-fpeciai
grounds upon which we were called upon to
exert this interference ? That the king of
Prussia had a flirted that those gentlemen
were to be considered as the common prison
ers of the allied powers, and that therefore
their fate must depend upon common con
tent. For his part he had already, as he now
again, denied, that this country had any hand
in this bufmefs one way or the other, npr
did he know upon what authority this decla
ration was attributed to the king of Prussia,
other than as it was stated in that Hcufe.
Admitting, however, the truth of the ex
pression having been uttered, it did not ap
pear to him that it could apply to this coun
try at all, inasmuch as at the time of the
capture, we formed no part of the alliance
alluded to, but were perfectly neutral. The
only ftther ground upon which the motion
was grounded, was the simplicity of tha
principles upon which M. Fayette was ftfp
pofed to have a<fled, and those which we
make the gronds ef our interference. Sup
pose that true, how Would the declaration
iffiied by his Majesty, to induce the French
to join our arms apply to him ? That only
promised prote&ion and support to those who
joined us as friends hereafter. But had M.
Fayette joined us at all, and could he be said,
therefore, to have come within the promises
therein contained ? Upon the simple grounds
therefore, of the impropriety of our inter
ference, and without attending- to the other
circumstances that did not apply, he found
himfelf obliged to oppose the motion.
Mr. Fox observing that the Right Hon.
gentleman who spoke last, had pwrpofely
avoided many of the arguments used by his
Hon. Friend,'he had contented himfelf with
limply urging his motion to be an improper
one. He had therefore left the arguments
of his friend unanswered, and they appear
ed to him still to stand with the fame force
and weight a 6 at firft. For his part, he would
not think of fupporfing the motion, by slat
ing auy thing personal with refp ft to the
unfortunate M. Fayette; although he had
some personal knowledge of him, but con
tent himfelf with observing, that if ever there
was one of a firm mind, temperate in times
the molt perilous, and a&ing to the last un
der the impression (rf one original and uiji-f r.-^^^BfIHjtiwRHBfeK^HBHMHfiHMnBsHMBSj^HGgi
■ ''-' v j|HH^^H|^B^^^bß^^BHHh9
.
••#)pMfl|[^^^^H^^^L3|||^M9iSi
vi&tkm
upon
who
men, jwpfjSaßEsK^W^^^^^^y^PglWMlßtA|
vore n i ijilT ympj^^^3HMWßplß^(j<wW|._
ihofc wfra
d etSrf «'to»tiS^gßßß^B^fejß^P^.
miii>>^iiiMjt^mpaa.|jESaWHMy>r|
ll^ 'y y*|*^tiwwßgSM»«Bßß£
t .
that house to consider, whether they were
11 (it catted npon to Cbuiult their own fit- j
lings, and the fucctis ottffjtcauu; which ]
she 7 pnofefltd to ftrppovt. Upon theft
grounds, tbeitfare, he declared his a'fent
to the motion of his hon. friend.
Mi- Burke, with his ufuai warmth,
commented on the affairs and misfortunes
attendant on the events of France ; the
miseries of which he principally attributed
to M Fayette, contending that we were
not called on in any manner to interfere in
his favor, aud declaring that when he
contemplated the numerous and aggravat
ed tries of rnifery that un
happy country, all compassion for the in
dividual was swallowed up in the general
calamity.
| Mr. Grey observed, that the right ho
norable gentleman who spoke la ft, had
declaimed loudly against the cruelties and
attrocities of the French. He did not
mean to argue on the irrelevancy of the
various topics which he had introduced,
but he conceived that we may draw a les
son from their cruelties, by ' abftairiing
• rom that injustice, which cruelly confined
the unfortunate Marquis la Fayette in a
loathsome dungeon. He maintained, that
as we had no right to interfere with the
internal government of France, so it was
notjuft to inflict a punishment on that un
fortunate gentleman, for whatever consti
tution he may wilh to have established.
lie trusted that the unfortunate queen, in
her dying moments, esteemed la Fayette
roi his afliduities, aud the part which he
had taken in behalf of the royal family.
He observed, that by the declaration of
Lord Hood to the Toulonefe, they were
promised the couftitution of 1789, which
was the very constitution for which the
wretched Marquis la Fayette was an ad
vocate. If therefore it were the object of
the confederates to restore the ancient Mo
narchy, in preference to the constitution
of 1789, he affirmed that Great-Britain
would be juftified in withdrawing herfelf
from the pref'ent alliance to make a fepa- i
rate peace. Principles of justice and po
licy mould induce this country, he insist
ed, to interfere for the enlargement of
threfe unfortunate gentlemen, whose chief
crime was, in supporting that constitution
which Lord Hood offered to the Toulon
efe.
Mr. Pitt said, that Lord Hood, in con-'
lecyience of previous information with t&e
l.pulonde underitood that they had -no'
objection to enter into a negociation with
the Enghfti If they made a declaration
in favor of Monarchy, (ie agreed to fun
ply them and contribute to their wants
which was accepted, and afterward they
declared in favor of the confutation of
1789.
f i^ r ' F ,f declared tllat he conceived the
ast exactly as stated, which did not alter
the crcumflance, that this country had 1
bound itfelf to what had been stated by
his hop. friend. '
Sir Robert Thornton affirmed that all
parties with whom he had conversed, ex
claimed against the confinement of la Fay
ette He conceived that jufticc and policy
fhou d induce us to interpose in his Lor,
and he was of opinion that there vvasfome
thing extremely unmanly and unmilitary
a t C T £ ° f Bcrlin ' refpefting its con
duit to that infortunate officer.
Mr William Smith said, that he was
mpelled to lay m his claim to argue again'!
our interference with the internal g(f,ern
ment of France. We were actually fall.
>ng into such error by punishing l a Fay
ette for the part which he had taken in
the revolut.on of France. It g ave himj
lanfe of si P C ° nCer " t0 si " d that in
• ° f five >' CJrs > nothing had occurred
" couU C ° U I 1 1 "7 ft , rUg S !in & &r freedom, that
could induce the nation, the mo st f ree i„
SVT ' mterfcre in its behalf. Had
that been the cafe, it were probable that
hose enmes which had been imputed to
Heco:Thi.rb7d e r4 h sir^- d
try will fnffer fJverelyTthl 'r" C ° Un "
tion were not carried. P resent
Mr. Milford spoke against the motion.
Mr. Cox adverted to what r it
in debate. He insisted th f •
low the feedfof Stft?" . W
try, which in France h-M - IS COUn "
t" n 'ty, to the deftruaion g Tev 1 e n rl°T'
pice, every comfort both in this life S
destroy" it uUimate, y
Mr. Fox declared, that from the con-
venation which he had with several persons
at Brighten, who h&d just returned from
Paris, and who were not the lead attach
ed to the Marquis La Fayette, he was
conyinced that none of those crimes could
be faitly attributed to him, with which
he was charged by those gentlemen who
opposed the motion.
Mr. Jenkinfon affirmed that he was iu
Paris at the time to which the Right
Hon. gentleman had adverted, when it
was generally acknowledged that he could,
if he plea fed, prevent many of the cir
cumstances lo much reprobated.
Mr. Martin returned thanks to the gen
tleman who had brought forwaid the mo
tion, as it gave hiia an opportunity of
demonstrating his abhorrence of the con
finement of this unfortunate gentleman.
He declared, that his'fevere punifliment
was the conversation of all parties through
out the country, and he trusted that the
House would vote for ths motion, not
lels through the motives of mercy, than
through the motives of found policy. »
Mr. Stanly declared, that he was in Pa
ris at the time adverted to by several gen- j
tie men who had spoke. He mull in jus- i
lite to the unfortunate La Fayette declare !
ie that he not only did every thing in his j
is power to prevent the circumstances that !
i- had happened, but rifqued also his own
i- personal fafety. He would therefore vote
1. tor the motion..
n Mr. Courtney infilled, that instead of
e .giving ofFence.to the King of Pruflia, he
e would be pleaied to have this country in
'• terpofe for the liberation of his prisoner.
f He had disclaimed wishing to keep in con
: finement, and did it merely to please the
• Confederates. He thought this court
e would do him a favor in removing him
- from the situation of a Royal goaler It
f was ft range logic to state, that all the
- cfimes of Roberfpierre, Marat, and Dan
■ ton, were to be attributed to La Fayette- I
i it would be equally jull to impute the ri
t ots of i 7 Bo to his Majesty's Ministers,
or Lord Amherft who was the command
er of the forces. Lord George Gordon
. . wa<! macle a prisoner by the mob,
but he never impeached the ministers for
the circumstance. Much idle declama
tion had been used with refpeft to the
atrocities committed at Paris, while not a
ungle cruelty committed by the Royal
•tiUichilts was ever mentioned. He did
mn conceive why. these Lords anointed
Ihould have a patent for fomenting anar
chy and confufion. H« thought that a
popular ferment was necelTary at times, to
rtr tt ' e P o!ltl^ 1, atmo fpl'e , e 1 ; and would
.rather fuffer all the troubles attendant on
Djmocracy, than breathe for a no
tjftT 6 peft ' ,nitial air of Re gal Defpo-
Mr. Whitbread infilled that the Royal
CorftW P f dged t0 « ive Prance e
Constitution qf 1789, and if he retreat
ed from it, or rather his Miniftcr, it
would be a violation of his promise ; and
! doin g could not escape with
honor He next took notice of thecon-
W fc' M angara and Lord Hood >
I wa highly contradictory, but he said it
was ufeiefs to call on Mr. Pitt for an a
p anation t° their curious declarations,
l A'r, " re P eat edly questioned as to
the subsidizing the king of Pruflia to the
amount of 7 00,0001. to which he thought
> to make no reply. Probably it was
- in'thTnr P ' P T tHe t i Ueflio "' till late
, . feflion, in the fame manner that he
■ did mthe introduction of the Sardinia::
lU re P''ed, that when the quefti
f Pf 111 ? 1 subsidy to the king of Pru
fia was brought forward, and was . egular
ly before the house, then he woul |^ ve
every explanation required. If it was
at a nrlV 0 Übfid j Zeany P " nce ' he would
onKjr g,veevcryinfo ™ atio!i
The question being loudly called for
-MSty S 7 ed ' 46-Noe. .53.'
LONDONT^ arch 19 .
DECLARATION
Of the King of Pruflia against a general
""" of tht of 5, m
I. "When the proportion for a general
armament of the fubjefts of ,J,„ g
was made at the aflVmbly of the DH^tl^
1™ of FruSa ,« prrf JJ
difficulties aga.nft this measure, thThl
could not have expected that the ' 7
, • th!S reason hls majesty finds C
himfelf under the neceifity of laying them
I again one* more,before the ncr-cft c'-~l
. Wh this übfervation, viz. « <$ at f*>
- fajd circle* cannot determine with them
> M*. to wididra# the (aid conclufum, Z
render ,t of none effect, he vviU be to c f
how ever contrary to his inclination, J
withdraw ing tioops, as he cannot «' £
them to the danger which mufl neceilar.ly
re full irom this measure.
HI. The reasons that his Prussia,, m _
jelty opposes to a general armament of the
inhabitants of the empire, are the follow
ing, viz,
1. By employing the peasants a K ainft
the enemy, agriculture will want hands
2. 1 hat there are not arms fufficient to
give to such a mass of people.
3- That it is impossible, in so ft o rt a
time, to teach the manual exercise to the
inhabitants.
4- It has been found, by the experi
• nee of the two laftcampaigns, that the
soldiers opposed to the French mult be oer
yT X d. to make head against them.
I' . ,vf '"dependent of the above
reasons it is infinitely dangerous, at a time
J llke , the Prffent, when the French are
watching every advantage to mRHu««
their principles, to afTcmble such a mass
| of men, whose ideas upon forms of <r O .
! vernment mud be various, and anufng
! whom consequently difTentions might arile,
disastrous in their confluences both to
the armies and to the oiiftitution of the
Empire.
For the Gazette of the UnitedStatej.
•Mr. Fenno,
A writer in the American Brujels Gazette,
• lrlfta »t, appears to be wonderfully
tickled with the number, objecl and descrip
tion of those persons who were prelent at the
Civic Feast on Saturday last. That the writer
and his companions experienced much plca
lui -j on the occasion is possible,—and if he
had remained fatisfied with giving us a def-.
cription of his feelings, without exaggerating
lome of the circumftauces upon which he
founds<his triumph.it would {lave been very
well. In order therefore to draw some fur
tfier information from this impartial biogra-
relative to the occurrences of that ever
memorable day, I stall beg leave to ast him
the following questions:
' Whether any body besides himfelf and the
Editor of the BrulTels Gazette afoiefaid, was
at the pains of ascertaining the number ot
persons who went out for the laudable put
pofes mentioned in his publication, and whe
tuer they amounted to two hunditd or
hundred ? ° '
Whether all those who walked in the pro
ceflion or followed it, are to be considered as
partakers of the fealt, or naeiriers of toe
Twin Societies ?
Whether it is customary at entertainments
given by fubfeription, and upon the mode™
principles of democracy, for ail t<;e best viands
to be placed at the head of one table only >
Whether it is true, that a member of
one of the Twin Societies was seen walk
ing in the streets with the head of a barba
cued pig in his pocket, after it had been re
solved that the fragments of the feaft should
be applied to a charitable purpose ?
Whether the toafisfaid to have been given
at the entertainment, were repeated aloud
and applauded by all the company > '
To tie Editor of the Gazette of the United
States.
Sik,
So then, fir, we are to have no more demo
cratic squibs from the Citizen Genera! j!d
■vertifer : he declares he will no more answer
the attacks on him. But what are his rea
sons ? «« Forfcotb" becanfe " his time is
pledged to his numerous patrons," and be
cause he prints nothing « <wuiout being pa i d
- r C ' t ' i . out being paid for it, Citizen !
1 hope there is no one that doubts of the
General Aduertifer's BEING PAID ' Idare
- fay the Pere du Chene himfelf (whose mdtto
: was\ bougrement democratej was never better
' P a ' d -——Vff certainly cannot doubt of the
[ citizen s having a great number of patrons ■
, he toldus the other day, with a " zounds''
at the end of it that he has eight hundred
But this word Patron, how came it to be
admittednjto the haughty democratic diction
ary ? Who would have thought that this
trumpeter of equality was so pledged to his Ma
trons, that he could not find tme to dell J
himfelf? But when a man i,™ £;fi
it, it is another thing. A patron necefiarily
implies a dependant. Nov, here is a diftinc
of r f n , cr classes, which is contrary to
every principle cf sterling Sans Culottifn, ■
and though it is mare than probable thatthe
citizen is, m a very humiliating state of de!
pendance, yet the avowal is unworthy of his
profelTed principles, and if hp
neighborhood of the Jacobin Society of Par^
this avowal might probably procure him the
honor of following his p/edecefTor CARA
creditor ; thatfl.e has a right tn * pnvJe S ed
- persons o
5 e neid, it .s i eported that the/ , «.
Citizen Zaqtrtifer is put into a jfate of-per
litar.rit rejufthn by b.s -pjtivxs.' He
is to attack the enemy in . :fji with long»
Con vention fpteches i thtyr or:r.; J tu-vjns
he is to aflault with BiuL->ixs < «/««.'» au",
if tliey are 10 obliiriate as not to surrender
at difcret»ou, he ss ta throw (howera of
" after dinner loajls" am ongit tnem by way
1 of _/?!/!* pou.
Having iuch important bufmei's upon "his
hands,- you cannot, lir, in rtaiou expect to
hear direitly from hiffifc'f • but as lam not
in a Jluit- of rsquifition, I may probably find
the time tc give you an account of nis ope
rations during the ear.ipa'grt; and it he is
not faithful to hj« truii, 1 pro.ntte to denounce
him.
I am, Sir, your s &c.
Philad. May 6th, B.
From the General AJvertifer.
Mr. Bache,
During a period of a month or more you
have pybiiiked many pieces as from corres
pondents. Ail those pieces which relate to
the fubje<3 of negociation with Great Bri
tain, Mr. Jay as envoy, the executive in
making the appointment, those members of
C'ongrefs who favored n^oc':a:ion,&lately ill
refpeiting the funding system, are intended to
makefalle impressions upon the public mind.
As lorg as such writers wili fculk behind the
iimpenetrable veil of anonymous pub lications,
a refutation may, in a measure, be evaded :
Lut if your currcipbndents will come forth,
all or any of them, by name, and avow all Or
any of the fails so induftriou!:)' Iprrad among
the people, I will pledge myfelf to the
public, that a complete refutation (hall be
given to a'V the m'aterial facts allcdgcd in
those pui)!,.rations,vouched by names; names
who (hall ft.m l uriimpearh.ed in point of ve
racity, and who never owned a farthing of
public paper nor ever held an office under tbe
govetrifc.nt of the United Sutes. And more
particularly I pledge myfelf to the public, to
give demoiiftratiou, that every assertion, of
any importtiace, of your publication this
morning, taken from a pamphlet, entitled
" a definition of parties, &c." is twftn/ded
and in molt inftanies palpably falfe. Any
statement of farts, given to the public thro'
a newspaper, Oio'ild be true, but when the
molt importint interefis of community are
aimed at by fa'f; publications, the cvlprit
who dares thus ihotildlie dfaggc/i into day- •
light.
CATO.
The TIMES, No. XII.
" Let all true pafiibts lie dlltinguifhed
by a cockade," 4y the, Virginians—Let j
W tar aftd tegtfop~<- very nu.it wWo oppefe s
it. • t- • • .
Let ys burn in effia-y every member of
Congref* who dots not think as we do,
fay the mob ofClfv'eiton.
Let us tr.ke of/ all tories, at a general
f u'tcp fays the General Advertiser.
Just so in England Scotland and Ire
land. Th.e court minions lay, away with j
all authors and printers that publish the
Rights of Man—they ate dangerous, libel
a:;d transport evefy man who speaks and
writes wiiat we d</nt like. 1
Ju!l so in France, Drown, (hoot and
guillotirte everyilderaKft—every moderate
—all the monied ariltocracy—What, one
have more money than a uother ?and with
to keep it too ! Away with such men ! A
man who thinks a Fu!ir.il Government bet
ter than an Ind:<ujfeblf Repuilic,is not fit to
live—Why, the monfier, the ruffian does
not think as we do ! so fay the Mountain.
Away with all nev.'{p?pers, all pedlars
and tinkers, fays the king or Spam—-away
with these traitors,incendiaries,thefe hawk
ers of trench books and Jacobin princi
ples Let none of these fellows disturb our
way of thinking. So also the Empress
of Russia, the King of Prussia and the
Emperor of Cermany.
Strange indeed to tell, but an incontesta
ble fact, that the democratical people in
America, the warmelt friends ofthe French
are the very men, and the only men who
commit or threaten violense for freedom
of writing and speaking. The mobs in
C harlefton and Virginia have attempted
the tyranny of George 111. or the King of
Spain, by means something different, but
equally detejlable. The burning men in ef
figy and the threats pronounced against
their perfons,the guillotine and the general
ftveep of Philadelphia ; what are these but
attempts to restrain the privilege of speak
ing and writing. ]f a printer publiflies what
taey do not like, they will threaten to pull
down his house. What is all this, but the
tyranny of George 111. or of a Ruffian
Empress, excrcifed in a more summary
and more frightful manner ! Has not a
man in America the fame right to publish
■ his sentiments, as Mr. Paine in England
Mr. Muir in Scotland ? You fay these
men are perfccuted—but is it not persecu
tion to burn a man in effigy, or threaten to
tcirdcwn his house! You fav theft men
in Great Britain wrote in faro- ef liberty.
' they did fo—arxl so do people here wl.c
write again ft mobs—Liberty rpnfilts-in a
right to do what a man pJtufts, not con
trary to the laws of the count ry and to
the legal rights of our fell jw citizens.—
Then Paine and Muir were right,andeverv
man in America, in Congrds or out, has
the fame sacred right to speak and publilh
his opinions. Any, the leaf! attempt toa
bridge that right, is defpottfm, whether by
a long expenlive trial—transportation
and impriforiment; or by tarring and
feathering men, or by threatening them
with a generalfweep. It is very remarka
ble, but true, that in foreign countries the
Court or Government attenpts to reitrain
the freedom of speaking and printing—in
this country, the friendsof our government
encourage that freedom—and certain clubs
of the people endeavor to rettrain it.—
The tables are turned—ln Europe the
Kings and the v Nobles think their rights
in danger from freedom of difcuflion ; here
the Genet begotten ekibs abuse every man
as an enemy to his country, who opposes
their arrogant afTumption of powers.—
Thefc clubs are become the tyrants of
America.
Amer. Miner.
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 9.
There never was a greater truth, fays a
Correspondent, than that published in the
Genertil Advcrtifer of th s morning, viz:—
" That a famous minority fays imlujiry a
lene, (hall pay for the protection of govern
ment"—Tji.s factious minority" have for
more than four years pall been constantly lay -
ing the fam'e thing.
This very " factious minority" have uni
formly opposed every tax on luxuries and
fupcrSuitics—on foreign manufadurcs which
interfere with our own, and every propoii
t'.'jn for the encouragement of the arts and
manufa&ures of the United States.
A retrofpeiiive view of the government
will faiitfion the foregoing. This " factious
m!nor:ty ' wifli to plunge this country into
war, or which is worse, confulion—but
while their measures tend to war, they op
pose every proportion for raising those fup
piies which are neceflary to put the country
even ip a Oate of defence !
So long as the people are wife to difeern
their true interests, performs of fucji a cast of
i «tiara<icr wit always be ifce minority in-our
government.
The moil extraordinary and patriotic
exertions are making by tlje citizens of
New-York, to expedite the fortifications,
eredting for the defence of that port.
The Citizens turn out by profeffions, and
pcifarm tours of labor on the works';
and from the notices which have appeared
in the Gazettes of that city, calling on
the various clafles and profeffions, it°may
be presumed that many thousand Dollars
arefaved to 1 lie public chest, by these pa
triotic and voluntary fcrvices.
Married, last Evening, by the Rev.
Dr. Rogers, Mr. Robert Shav, of
this City, Merchant, to Miss Maria
Graham, of Pottfgrove.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, May 7 . •
Extras of a letter from Philadelphia, dated
May 5.
" From the best information I have been
°J UU ?' by en l uiries of those who
that the°P t! 1 am of
that the Embargo will not be renewed: fe
me 0 Co "grefs have told ,
me ihat the meafmre has in their opinion been
an unfortunate one. The multiplied cap- '
tures, oi which about fix weeks since we re- '
ceived the accounts, added to the publication 1
of Lord Dorcbefter's speech to the Indian" *
produced the Embargo-the new inftnnC
revoking that of the 6th Nov. the arrival ,f
""Va ?T En ? land and 'he change of
condua in such Englift lflands as are
more coirefl in their proceedings, have so
materially altered the state of affairs as to
authorise a repeal of the Embargo-thTs how
ever „ uncertain, tho' I belifve the mer
chants and farmers both here, and in the
southern states, are heartily tired of the mea
nrt'foH'th y tl V° fe ° f the latter ' who ha d
was laid." ' r Vheat b£fol ' e ,he Erabar go
BOSTON, May 2.
A gentleman from the Well-Indies in-
Z ms Z IT- 3 Cap -- Talbott ' an Ame »-
I c,n, after being taken and carried into
New-Providence, lofmg his popertv and
brig—abused and infnlted by the British
refolvmg on being indemnified and reveng
ed, immediately proceeded toGiiadaloupe,
was naturalized, procured a commission as
a French privateer • and with foihe Amen
can tar.., './ho followed his example, anc
1 French fcfo*, had made fcva.,l
cruilts, in -vhich he had c? v t«rvd eight or
> -en ail-os Britiih vclTels, which had been
iff' ,!to fs- Tbomas's. He adds, that
t|ie Bntifli privateers of the Leward If
| e - c much of meeting with
r * iiaS bcen rece ivcd from Captain
' M" W'lfon, of the (hip Thorn, to Ids
i owners .n dni town, dated Havre-de-Ma
rat, March 10, of which the following is
i an extract—-" This day I arrived here,
- and h;.ve been m the channel f,nce the ilt
: kJI, having head winds and detained by
i Bntifh men of war. A large number of
i American velTels are here—many of them
have been here a long time."
It is proper to observe, that the (hip
1 horn cleared out at Newport for Havre
de-grace, and had on board a cargo confut
ing of cotton, coffee, oil and whalebone,
and although thus bound and laden, was
permitted to proceed on her voyage, al
though boarded by several British vessels
ot war.
Arrived this day, brig Katy, Capt Gro.
zier, from Oporto in 48 days. Was in
formed a few days after he failed, that se
veral Algerine cru.fers were in the atlantic
Alio armed this day, (hip Wifeaflet, Hol
brook, Liverpool ; sloops Bctfey, Har
dmg, Madeira; Tryal, Chafe, Tobago.
FROM CHARLESTON, (S. C.J
April 19.
Capt. Talbot, of the French privateer
Point Petre, mounting 12 guns, has iuft
orotrght into this port the (hip Grenada
1 acket of London, from Penfacola, bound
to loaded with furs, &c. said to
be a valuable cargo.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
a- LONDON, March 18.
DECLARATION of his Prussian Majesty,
delivered to the States of the Germanic
Circles, aiiembled at Frankfort.
His Majesty the King of Prussia could not
but hear with the higheit difpieafure, that
dehgns were imputed to him tending to fc
cuhrize Bishoprics and Chapters, to suppress
them, and to appropriate to himfelf certain
S- rh * £m P" e > in or(fer to indemnify
himleli for the lmmenfe expences which he
has made for near two years, to carry on the
war againlt the French, and to defend against
them the Germanic Empire and his illustri
ous allies.
His Majesty, confident that his designs are
pure, might pals in silence over such ru
mours, and eontent himfelf with the convic
tion that they would find no belief on the
part of the well-disposed States of the Em
pire : but to give an overplus of fatisfaftion,
and to confound the malevolent, who invent
(imilar stories purposely, and perhaps to ex
cite distrust, the undersigned has orders form
ally to declare, that while his Majesty makes
war upon the French, he has never any view
but the defence of the Germanic Empire,
and the maintenance of the Constitution ;
that it never was his Majesty's design to
make conquests for himfelf; and that if con
quells are made from France, the Empire
will have its share ; that he never conceived
the least idea of indemnifying himfelf at the
expence of the Empire, whafe Constitution
has always been sacred to him, and for whose
maintenance he has already made so many
faenfices, as is generally known.
The undersigned finally declares, that his
Majesty will never belie those intentions in
future, and be always ready to secure and
guarantee to the Germanic Empire its terri
tory and Constitution, and to its States in
particular, both spiritual and temporal, their
polTeffions and rights ; in a word, the invio
lable maintenance of the whole Germanic
body, provided the Empire, and above all
those fix circles which are molt exposed to
danger at the present, will co-operate as
much as the Constitution and patriotism re
quire of them.
(Signed) Baron Hochstetter.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Sitting oj March 8.
_ Laignelot, Representative of the peo
ple at Rochefort, informed the Conven
tion in a letter, that an American (hip of
200 tons, laden with provisions, had been
taken by the frigate of the Republic l'Hy
menee, which failed from Rochefort a
week ago. The American ship came from
Bilboa, and was bound to Spain Inser
tion in the Bulletin.
Citizen Dumont, Representative of the
people in the department of Somme and
Oife, informed the Convention, that those
persons who had been found guilty of fel
ling the Tree of Liberty at Brefle, had
been tried and punished in the moll formal
manner, and that the celebration of the
Sundays in Picardy had given way to the I
feftivals of the Decades.
Gregoire—" I mull acquaint you with
1 t r-fce of rcyal infamy; it is in an origi
' t'!t ," er ' wntten b T the hands of Charles
r K. king of France, and discovered by
I , admjfjiftrators of the department of
' ~T, 8 ' Thls,£tter » addrefled to the dnfec
• d Alencon, biother to that infamous mon
i iter, is expressed as follows :
- My Brother,
' For the signal fcrvice which Charles de
Louvter, Lord of Montreveil, has ren
dered to me,the bearerbeing the fame who
. alTaffinated the Moui, my enemy, I beg
, you, Brother, to tip him the ribband of
our order, having been chosen by the bro
. ther ? companions of the said order to be
received in it; and do so, that the clowns
and inhabitants of my good City of Pa
ns may grant him some reward, according
to his merit. 1 pray, brother, that God,
may take you Under his holy fafeguard.
(Signed )
TIT . Your brother Charles.
Written at Pleflis-des-Tours, on the 1
loth day of October, 1560.
I repaired," added Gregorie, " to
the national library, to ctmfult the authors
and manufenpts of that time: The wri
ting was compared, and every body could
eahly fee that the letter which I have read
is the hand-writing of Charles IX. The
authors add, that Charles IX gave guards
to Louvier, who was however killed in his
turn. I move that this letter, attesting
the villany of Kings, be inserted in the
Bulletin."—Decreed.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Yesterday evening arrived here, the ship
Net tor, Capt. Birket, in 63 days from
White-Haven. The Capt. informs that
he left there the (hip Sally of Alexandria
—the brig Nancy, , ditto, which
were both taking in cargoes, bound for
Holland. The brig Hero, of Portsmouth,
New-England, was discharging her car
go there, and the ship Fair Virginian, .
failed from White-Haven 10 days before
Capt. Birket left that place, homeward
bound.
To Correspondents.
. *V" The Editor is much obliged to the
writer whose signature is S. R. the com
munication begins a feriesof eflays, of which
a competent judgement cannot be formed
from the introductory number—The author
will therefore please to favor the Editor with
two or three numbers in succession. He
would observe however, that until the recess
oi Congress it would not be convenient, if
practicable, to commence their publication.
He would just hint that his ideas of occasion
al eflays are in favor of brevity—particularly
in refped to premisses, profeffions and intro
ductory developements.
! " Homo" is under consideration, its length
is the greatest objection.
MADEIRA 1
SHERRY, I
Sbo'n,* I WINES of the iirft quality
TENERIFFE J
Old Jamaica Spirit, Antigua and Weft India
Rum.
Coniac, French and Peach .Brandies
Claret and Port Wine of a superior quality
in cases. .
Wine Cyder and Vinegar, in pipes and hhds.
Corks in Bales, Havannah Segars in Boxes.
Philadelphia Porter, in Calks and Bottles.
London do. in do. do.
Philadelphia Ale and Beer in do. do.
London do. in do. do. and
Cyder :n barrels and bottles, prepared for ex
portation or immediate use,
FOR SALE BY
Benjamin W- Morris,
The corner of Dock and Pear Jlreeti,
Where he has provided I'uiralsle stores and
vaults, for the reception of
WINES, &c.
Which he proposes to store or dispose of on
commission.
Capcains of vefTels and others fupplicdwitk
iny Of the above LIQUORS bottled, and lea
lores in general put up.
Ma > 9 tu&fom
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
May 9.
Will be performed,
An OPERA, called
Inkle and Ifarico.
Pith the' original Overture and Accompa
niments.
To which will be added,
A FARCE, called
Lovers Quarrels;
O R/" 3
Like Master, Like Man.Ph'lad-Iphla, Marchi, »794-
JUST PUBLISHED,
J MATIJEW CAREY,
No. 118, Miu'let Jlrect,
|_-,E FIRS'!" VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography:
OR, A
Geographical, Historical, ana
Commercial Grammar;
And p relent state of the leveral
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAI NING,
j. The figures, motions, and distances of
the planets, according to the Newtonian sys
tem and the latest observations
2. A general view of the earth, considered
as a planet; with several ufeful geograpliical
definitions and problems.
3. The grand divisions of the globe into
J«nd a'd continents and iflanifs.
4. The situation and extent of empires,
luifjduins, states, provinces and colonies.
5. Their eiiinate's, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, metals, minerals, natural curi
osities, seas, rivets, bays,tapes,promontories,
aud lakes.
6. The birds and beasts peculiar to each
country.
f. (Observations on the changes that have
l>etf,i any where obserVed upon the face of na*
tuce ftnce the most earjy periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations; then
farms of government, religion, laws, reye
nu£s, naval and military strength.
9. Thegtnius, manners, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
to. Their language,learning,arts',fciences,
manufactures, and Commerce.
11. The chief cities, flruftures, ruins, and
artificial curiosities
12. Tiie longitude, latitude, bearings, and
distances of principal places from Philadelphia.
To which are addcd t
t. A GEots*APHicAL Index, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged
-2.' A Tabis o'f the Coins of all nations, and
tlieir value in dollars and cents.
j. A Chronological Ta»le of remarkable
events, from the creation to the prelent time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Astronomical Part corrected by
D . Kittenhouse.
To which have been added,
The! ate QiscoMEßiES*of Dr. Herschell, I
and other eminent AstronoMeAs.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrc&ed, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firtl volume contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, besides two Agronomical Plates,
viz
1. Map of the world. the world
3. Europe. 4* Alia. 5* Africa. 6. South
America 7. Cook's discoveries. 8. Coun
tries round the north Pole. 9- Sweden, Den
mirk, and Norway, so. Seven United Pro
vinces. u Austrian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. 13 Seat of war
in France. 14. France divided into depart
ments. 15. Switzerland. 16. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. if. Spain and Portugal.
18: Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
lartd. 20 Well-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22. Ar
miliary sphere. 23. Copernican iyftem.
With the second volume, which is now in
the pref-, will be given the following Maps :
(. Ruflia in Europe and Afi^
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland. 1
5. China.
6. Hindoftan.
•j. United States.
8- Britilh America.
Si'ate of New^iamplhire.
,0. State of MafTachufetts.
11. State of Connefticiit.
7 State of Rhode<lfland.
,3. State of New-York.
i - State of New-Jersey.
ij. State of Peniifylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18- State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
23 State of North-Carolina.
21. Tenneflee Government.
22. State ofS'outh-Carolina.
23. Staie of Georgia.
TERMS.
1. This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the prise of bind
i'*B, (56 ce nts for boards.)
3. They inay receive the succeeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
tfci dollar each, or else, when finifhed, at
the fame prite as the si ft.
4. The subscription wilt be raised on the firft
day of June 1794, to fourteen dollars, ex
cTiifive of biudlng.
5. Should any copses remain for sale after the
coirtplerioVi of flie work, they fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
6. The names of the subscribers will be pub
lilhed as patrons of American literature,
arts, and sciences.
It is wholly unneceflary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American readers, that this edi
tion pofleiFes, over every imported edition of
any of Geog aphy extant. Tbe addit.
tion of maps ofnhe several ftste , procu ed a.
a tfery great expense, and from the belt ma
terials that are attainable, speaks such full
conviction,on this fubjeft, that it would be
difrefpeft to the reader's understanding to
suppose it requilite to enter into a deta.l of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
lt.nilar work have such maps beenever intro
duced.
The emendations and additions wMcb are f
aide in tfiis work,are innumerable,and occua
, , evc-v pan,-. The public are referred to "
t,e p.'cVJelof a flight Iketch of a few oi .V
chem. , . /!.«]
The publilher takes the prelent opporto y
lity of returning his most sincere thank . to
•We refpccl.ibic eharafters who have lavoreq tu
with documents for improving the map- DC
o'Teveral of the ftat.s. He requests a conti
mance of tlieii kindness; and hopes that luch
public spirited citizens, as are pofleiled o. iy
nilar documents, will favor him with their
ill (lance in perfecting his undertaking-
The extraordinary encouragement with f„
vhich he has Wen favored, has excited
in his bread the warmest sentiments ol grati- w
rude—sentiments which time will 'not eaace. t |
,\i pledges himfelf to the citizens '>< the
United States, tp spare neither pains nor ex t |
oenfe to'ender the prifent edition ol Guihne s f (
Geography improved, deserving of their pa- t ,
tronage. '■
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from p
St. Peteriburg in Russia, t
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp, o
BAR IRON, i,
RUSSIA SHEETING, a
RAVEN's DUCK, «
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES. b
AND FOR SALE BY 1
John Donnaldfon,
No. 21, Walnut-ftrect.
March 4,1794. B
Diltri&of Pennsylvania t
T 0 IV I f: I
/ T C"c \ BE it lemembered, that on tie
1 '> twenty fourth day oi Maub, in
the eighteenth year of the independence ot the (
United States of America, Hazard j
of the said diftrift, hasdep©ii r ed ih thjs oflicti,
the title of a book, the r ght wnereot he claims 4
as author, in the words following, to trit : v
** Hiltorical Collections ; conlifting ot tlstc
papers, and other authentic document*- ; in-
1 tended as materials for an hiftoi y ot the U
nited States of America. ,
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A. M. {
Member of the American Pnilofophical So
ciety, held at Philadelphia, for promoting |
useful knowledge ; Fellow of the American ,
academy of Aits and Sciences; and corref- ,
pondent member of the Matfachuletts Hifto- :
rical Society.
VOLUME 11.
Ingenium, Pietas, Artes, acbeUita virtu.,
Hue piofugae venient, et Regna Utyftna
condent,
Et Domina hie Virtus erit, et Fortuna nii
iiiilra.'' t
In conformity to the ast of the Con.gr?fs of
the United States, entitled i 4 Ah act tot the
eucouragement of learning, by the
copies of maps, chart# and books, to the au
thors and proprietors ofWuch copies, dunng
1 he times therein mentioned.''
SAMUEL CALD\VELL,
Clerk of thfi DiJlriEt of Pennsylvania.
May 7 e\v4w
ADVERTISEMENT.
SALES at NEW-YORK, by <A. L.
BLEECKER & SONS,
L)a Thursday the 15th May next at Twelve
o'clock at the Tontine Coffee House,
THE FOLLOWING
'Traßs of Land,
In Watkins and Flint s purchase, in the coun
ty of Tioga, state of New York.
The containing'acres.
Southv/eft quar. of Townfliip i)o. 2, 8>424
Northwest do. do. 4, 5,64-
Northeast do. do. 6, 10,525
Southwest do. do. 7, 9^oo
Southwest do dq. 8, 3.950
Northwest do. do. 8, 6,250
Squtheaft do. do. 9, 6,250
Southeast do. do. 10, 9,000
Northwest do. do. 10, 10,475
70,5 21
These lands ar%rapidly encreafing in value,
large settlements are already made in feveial
of the townlhigj; the goodness of leil, and
the in point of situation being so
well known, render any lurther deffription
MiijieceiTary. Am pof the tracts and condi
tions of sale maybe seen at No. 16, Queen
street, New-York.
Aprtl iO. tuth&rs U4M
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
fuprrior quality in pipes, imported in the Ihip
Wilmington.
OLD SHERRY WINE of the firft quality
iji quarter calks, , imported in the brig Nancy
capt. Gwin. from Cadi?.
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RAISINS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIFFE WlNfcs,in pipes
hhds. and quarter calks, imported In the ihip
Thomas, capt. Skinner.
A few quarter calks of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who has also, just arrived and for sale
A SMALL C.ARGQ OF
Lijbon Salt.
A quantity of empty BAGS for file.
April 5. w&sim.
she Public are cautioned to
'ware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
be Batik of the United States, and Twenty
dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
"i<erui of which have appeared in circulation
uithin a few days pajl; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine BilLs, but may
if difiinguifhed by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
"or their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company >.s smaller
than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the toj>of the O,
to touch the top of the M. would extend con
hderdbly above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
The i and /in the word prcmife are not
parallel, the yinclrtiing much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the ftrokis
of all the Letters are stronger and the device
in themargio particularly ismuch coarfcr and
appeal's darker than in the true bills. Some
©i the counterfeits bear date in 179* —Where-
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were issued in
j at year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B tor their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described j the engraving is bette> exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearauce of the genuine bills.
The fine rulecj through the word Iwen
ty 7 in ttie body of ihe bill, are in number thir
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
4.he counterfeits.
* The word Company is much like the fame
•word in the Five Dollar Bills as delcr ibed ij
bove, the 0 being less than them, and otheis
following.
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters cnt in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do jiot come down to
the line, but«re so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and the> go
ing below them.
The fignaiure ], Nixon, has the appeal
ance of being written with lamb-black and
oil, and ditiers trom oiher inks ulcd in
printing the bills and the cafliici's lignature.
It is supposed thele forgeries were commuted
in some ot the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, hsve come from
thcnce, and two perions have been appiehend
ed in Virginia, on being the auihor
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Perlon or Persons wlio lhall
discover and piokcuie to convi&ion the several
offenders of the following defcnptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufa£tured
the paper on which ihe Bills are pnnied.
The person or peilous, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, «f the bills.
Every person who has acted as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
PhiladelpUia, March 28, 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank ol the United £>t ates have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical maik is the let
ter B.
They may be distinguished from the genu
ine by the following MARKS :
The paper of the counter tens is 0/ a more
tender texture and gloiley furface than the
genuine, ai)d there is no water mark in them.
T he letter C. in the word Caihier, iy the
true bills is strongly maiked, whereas in the
counterfeits, tjrc whole letter is a fine hair
stroke, evidently in an unfinished state. The
letters in the word demand, is badly formed
and the whole word ill done, and there is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
The marginal device, is much daiker in
the falfe, than in the genuine bills owing to
the shade strokes being coarser, much nearer
together, and consequently much more nu
merous. This difference fir ikes the eye at firft
view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will be paid for apprehending, &r
Prosecuting to conviction tjie several above
described Offenders in refpelt to this, as to
the last described bills.
THOMAS WILLING, President
of the Bonk United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
pe&ive Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded bymany in the-vicinity
cf the city, in lize, or convenience.
For particulars apply to tHe printer.
m&rthtf
V
A New Novel.
To the LADIES of Philadelphia.
Thit Day is PMifhed tj
MATH£W CAREY,
118, Market ilreet,
Price, bound, hve-eighths of a dollar, lewed
in marble paper, tuli a dollar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
IN TWO VOLUMES.
By Mi s. ROWSON, of tie New Theatre,
Phladelphia, Author of Victoria, theln
quifitor, tile Fille deCliambie, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have gives
the fdHwiving charaZler.
IT may be a Tate of Trutli, for it is not
unnatural, and it is a tale of real <sillrefs.—
Ghat lotte, by the artifice of a teacbet, recom
mended to a school, front humanity rather
than a conviSion of ber integrity, <>r the re
gularity of tier former coiiduti, it euticed
from her governed.,and accompanies a young
ifficer to America—The tnarrkge ceu-tuo
ny, if not forgotten, i» poUponed, and Char
lotte dies a martyr to the inconlHncy of her
over, and treachery ot his friend —The litu
tii)ns are artless and affe&litg—.he defcrip
ations natural and pathetic; we Arnold fee
Ipr Cha fotte if luch a person everexifted,
who for one er or fcarccly, perhaps, deferi-ed
so severe a punifliment. If it is a fifti.m,
poetic justice is not, we think, properly dis
tributed
Said Carey has jufi publijhed,
A 2 iheet map of Kentucky
compiled by Elihu Baiker, piice oi:e <l«uar
and two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Germany, Spa n,ltaly, the United Provinces,
the Netherlands, and the Well Indies. fiite
two dollars.
Map of New Jersey—Hals a dollar.
Map . of Vrrmowt, ConneSicut,Delaware,
Geo'gia Price three eighths of a dollar
each.
April 29. tuthfejw
v Lately Publilhed.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
THE Hiltory ot tyew-Hampihirc, from xhs
Discovery of the River Pifcaiaqua—by Je
remiah BeiArtflp, D. D. 3 Vols. Puce iu lioalU*,
4 1.2 Dollars.
The Foirefter, an American Fable, bein£ a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Clothier.
Prce, 75 Cents.
A Dtfcourfc, intended to commemorate the
Discovery ot America by Chriftophcr CoJum
bus; delivered at the requeli ot the
Society in MaflachufeUs, O&ober 23d, 179*1,
being the completion of the Third Ceniiiiy,
since that memorable event. To which arc
added, Fqw i o»u, with the g
fubjett—By the fame author. Price, 50 Cents. ™
March 17. tutnAf^w
—NO. 21 —
Second fired, between Market and Chjfwd
Jlreets, Philadelphia.
POYNTELL'S
AMERICAN M.-NUFACTOXY OF
PAPER HANGINGS,
WHERE he keeps up a confta/it stock of
ten thousand pieces for fafe, comprifi«£ every
variety of colours, in grounds and figures, of
the most modern and tasty patterns, far eve
ry part of a house. The perfection attained
in this manufactory, in pecuHar neatness of
workmai.ftiip, durability of colours, variety
iu design?, and good quality ot the paper, will
be found to exceed any European papers at
the fame moderate prices.
An elegant variety of rich fancy ic&oouSc
narrow rs, and of ftuccoand other co
loured pannel papers.
Plain grounds made to any colour or£hade<
Wholefa'e orders for any quantity, from
the country or for exportation, executed on
a Ihort notice, on advantageous teiuts, oa
usual ciedit.
In addition to the above afTortroect, he has
a beautiful variety of
French paper hangings
rtf vecy l'uperior quality, (Paris raariuli&oiy)
with a variety of Kich Borders.
April 2 5 tuth&s2w
ESSENCE
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold by Dr. Lee, Goldea-
Square, London.
THE pub ic is offered o ie of tl»e (haft
efficaciou* and fafe tHedicines, thuteverap
r peared, for that most excruciating pain, tlie
■ Tooth-Ache—the numerous instances of it*
1 happy effe&s, in relieving the affiifted, have
now brought it into uiiverfal eftimatior ; it
t not only relieves the tooth-ache, liutisol the
utmost service in curing the SCURVY in the
: Gums, in preventing the disagreeable fraell
that is produced from unsound teeth, & will
• occasion a sweet breath; it like-wise pit vents
the teeth from decaying, and vill be found
a general prelerverof the Teeth and Gums
\ Sold in Philadelphia only at
Poyntell's Stationary Store,
No. 2i, Second street.
April 24. tuth&s
f — "
y PHILADELPHIA:
PamTED by JOHN FENNO, No 3
South Foui-h-Street.
* t