of die Hntifefi
evening adve
[No. 50 of Vol. V.]
This day is publifbed y
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118. Maikft-itr PST,
( Price a quarter dollar )
A short account of ALGIERS,
Containing a dcfcnpiton of the rlimaietif ihrt
country —of ihe mannru and cuftotns of the in
habitants, and of iheir (cveral wars aga.nft Spain,
France, England, Holland, Venice, ana oth~r
powers of Europe, from the ttfurpation of Bar
barofTa and the invasion ol the Emperor Charles
"V. to the present time; with a eoncifr view of
the origin of the rupture between ALGIERS
and the UNITED STATES.
Jan. q.
Excellent CLARET,
Id tiogf«cadt and in cafra of 50 bottles cacb.
A L ,< O,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
la pipca, hoglh-ad* and qnaiicr cafki,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front-lireet.
Jan. a, 1794. dtf
NORRIS-COURT,
Bjck of the New L'braty, Chefout
and Walnut St reels.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY infoTri * his friends and
the public iii general, that he Continues
■carrying op the bufine*/Vof
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likcwife, JAPANNED PLATES,
for dooisor in themoft
elegant manner, and with dilpatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, c ltf
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
By M. CAR
No. 118, MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuable collection ofBOOKS,
imported from London in the Mohawk.
Dee. 19.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Sccrnd-Jlreet,
Scconddoor below the corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general AJfortmcnt of
New Books and Stationary,
"Which will be difpoled of on the I owe ft terms.
Dec. 23. niw&ftf
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given, that there will
be paid at the Bank, after the iixteenth
instant, to the Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duty authorized fifteen dollars, and
fifty cents for each (hare, being the dividend
declared for the last fix months.
By Order,
JOHN KXAN, Cafcier.
NOTICE.
BEING desirous of doling various commer
cial concerns, and that all powers hereto
fore granted relative to the fame (Kould be re
voked, and public notice of it given, to prevent
any poflible mistake ; I, the fubfenber, do here
by make known 10 all whom it may concent,
lhat all powers and letters of attorney, of every
nature and extent, granted by me to any person
or perions, pnor to the ift day of July la ft, to
att tor mc or in my name in Ame r i ca, are re-
greenleaf.
Ncw-Yo»k, Jan. t, 1794. dtw
& Terms of Subfcr'tption for this
Ga%ette, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of persons
tvho reside at a diflance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication•
Advertifementi of onefjuare, or left, in
sertedfour times' for One Dollar—once, for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—tbofe of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line, and Subscrip
tions, will te gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourth-flrcct,five doors north of the
Indian Queen.
<t?" Gentlemen, in poffefjion of Suhfcnption
papers for this Gazette, are requejled to
transmit tbem to the Editor's Office.
The Young LADIES'
Drawing Academy,
Under the D'treftion of
S. FOLWELL,
Will, ill a few days, be resumed.
HE feels a gratitude to those parents
and guardians of the young ladies,
who have entrufled to him their tuition—
and as mod of them are to return, he will
have an opportunity, by his endeavors for
their further improvement, to acquit him
felf of a debt, which he efteerhs it an honor
to have incurred.
dtf.
One or t'zvo large Rooms,
In a central fit nation, suitable to accom
modate liis pupils, are wanted. Apply to
him, at No. 2, Lselitia Court—where he
will be thankful to receive commands for
Miniature Painting or Hair Work, and all
kind of Drawing on Ivory, Sattin or
Paper.
January 13, 1794.
AD.VE RTJSEMENT.
Virginia* Sortluimber'unii ( ou»tv, Dec. 28, 1793-
FOR SALE,
A Valuable Trad of LAND,
in ihj* county, containing about eight
BCmdVed aeres, one louuh of which is low
grounds, of excellenf quality; the other three*
lourihs is high land, well covered with oak,
hn;Kory and chefnut,
The muation is pleafynt and healthy, on Yeo
comico river, about three miles from the PotOi
mack There ; son it a two ttory brick dwcl
ltng-houfc, wi(h lour rooms and a uafTige on
each floor, excjufive of clefetf ; a good
and oiHei nccellary out-houfes. h has orchards
ot apple and p ach trees, and is well watered
by many dcjtghtlul springs. The terms may be
known on application to the Honorable JOHN
HEATH, in Philadelphia* or to the fubferiber,
living on the p»rm'.fes.
fan. 10.
ALL persons having any de
mapcis.agiHntt *,be tliate of Gl ORGfc
WliiLE, late o! the city,of Philadelphia, baket»
arc r qucft. d ro bring in their accounts, property
aurht' ttratcd ; and those who are indebted, are
dcfjpd td make immediate payment.
E Y,
HENRYRKES, Administrator.
24 V 3W
January 13.
Insurance Company.
Philadelphia, January 6, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given to 'the'members
of the Insurance Company of North
America, that the Dire&orsrhave declared a
dividend (/or the last fix months) of tlx PtR
Cent, on the amount of the firltand fecoud
mftalment* ; and of one per cent per month
on the funis paid in anticipation of the third
instalment, calculating from the firft day of
the montb fbl'Gwing that, in wirch (h»»le pay
ments were made. Tb# dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders, or-their reprefentat veS,
at the company's office, No. 119 south Front
ftreet, at any time after the 13th instant.
By order of the Directors.
EBLNEZER Secretary.
Jan. 9. w&f 1 in,
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths £sf Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR. SALE,
An glegant AJTortment of
SILVER fcf PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY &fnc CUTLERY,
Which they will of on the inoft rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold aud lilver
way, done as ulual.
December 24.
Treasury Department,
NOTICfe is hereby given* thai piopofal* will
be received at the Qffice ot the_ Secretary
of the Trcafury, until the 6th of February next
inclusive, for the supply of all Rations which
may be required during the present year, at the
several places of rendezvous hereafter mention
ed, for the Recruiting Service, viz.
At New-Brunfwick, in New-Jerfipy;
Ar Philadelphia,
At Lancaster, > in Pennrylvania.
At Reading, )
The ration* to be furniftied are to consist ol the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or J of • pound of pork,
Hall it jilj of rum, brandy or whilky,
One quart of fait }
Two quarts of vineearf
Two pounds of soap (P" 100 ratlons
iOne pound of candlei)
J»0. 9.
AND
Thursday, Ja
diw
lOHtt CORDON.
nwlrftf
uwi6F.
uuary 16, ' 794-
CONGRESS
House of Reprefentdtivcs.
January 13.
In committee of the t tvhole i on the report of
tht Secretary of State, relative to the com
mercial intercourse of this country, with fo *
reign nations.
Mr .Smith's C,) Obfervaiiom concluded.
Mr. Smith proceeded to con fid el - the
comparative view of tobacco exported to
the rival nations, France and Great Bri- v
taini In France there was no duty, but
the Farmers General had a monopoly of
that article, which was a great bar to free
trade* In England there is a duty of 1/3
per pound on our tobacco, and on all o~
ther a duty of nearly tieble. This
diftindtion is not noticed by the Secretary
of State; on the contrary he takes care
to mention that that article pays a great
internal duty in Great Britain. Upon
this fubjeft he held it as an incontroverti
ble principle that the consumer pays ail
such duties, provided the country into
which they are imported does not raise the
fame or a {iibftitute for the article ; pro
vided they are not so high as to amount
to a prohibition ; and that in those duties
no discrimination is made in favor of the
like articles from other countries. The
Secretary ef State pays no regard to this
principle. If it was not a found principle
recriminations without numbers would be
heard from other countries, whose com
modities we often lubjed, here to very hea
vy internal duties.
The heavy duties of Great Britain up
on this article, tobacco, from other coun
tries but the United States, give us an ab
solute monopoly, to the disadvantage of
Portugal indeed, one of the nations with
whom Great Britain is on the most friend
ly terms. In the Weft-Indies, the French
prohibit the importation of our tobacco,
and Great Britain admits it into her co
lonies.
In this article then it mull be evident
that the system of Great Britain is much
more favorable to the interests of this
country.
Rice pays one per cent ad valorem in
Frauce, and there is no diftin£lion made
in our favour or against us. In Great
Britain the duty is more coniiderable. In
the French Well Indies one per cent is al
so paid, and in the British Ifiands it is uot
only free, but a prohibition is laid on all
other except our rice. It is doubtful at
fir ft fight which fyftcm is mod favouiable
if it does incline to the French scale, the
difference, on close infpedtion, will appetr
very trifling.
Experience has taught us,that rice rare
ly becomes an article of common food in
those countries in which it is imported,
and which raise a fufficiency of other grain,
as France and England. There rice is an
article of luxury, consumed only by the
wealthy. This observation is verified by
adverting to the state of the consumption
of this prodnftion among us. Tho' it is
so wholesome an article of food, yet in
those dates wherp it does not grow, end
wherethereisafufficiency of other grain, it
is only used as a luxury. In Great Bri
tain, then the duty cannot materially af
fect the consumption, as it bears only on
those abl? to pay it.
This duty was probably laid by Great
Britain to prevent the competition of this
article with wheat in times of scarcity. In
times of plenty such a competition is not
to be feared, and as in France, that scar
city is not probable, from the quantity of
wheat raised, they had no need of such a
protesting duty. The Britidi duty was
laid while we were colonies, it therefore
cannot be considered as a hostile measure.
In the Weft Indies rice is the common
food, there is the molt advantageous mar
ket for that commodity and there Great
Britain favours us much more than France.
In the article of Wood, Great Britain
favore us more than France. To Great
Bricain our wood is not only free, but a
R T I
[Whole No. 488.]
duty is laid upon rivals in this branch of
trade ; not some small duties as the Sec*
retary of State aflerts, but some very coiK
fiderable, which if they did not exiit, tlie
wood from the northern countries Wotild
preclude any supply from this coUntry k -«-
Our wood to France is free from dutv but
other nations are on the fame footing with
refpe& to this article.
Salted fifh is prohibited in Grerit Bri*
tam and her Weft-Indies, and fubjdSe to
a high duty in France, with high boun
ties on their own.
In the whole catalogue of exports, im*
poits and navigation, this is the only arti-'
cle in which the French really lftjd otit to
us greater advantages than to other nati
ons ; and here the difference as to faked
fiih, will appear greater upon a fuperficiat
than upon a more accurate view of the
cafe. Each country aims at a monopoly
of this article ; Great Britain is able to
supply hcrficlf and can therefore prohibit
ours: France gives a bounty on her own
and would exclude us if {he was adequate
to her own supply : but as (he is not, our
fifh get 6 into her (narkets ; this, however,
is conferring no favor oh us, for fifh from
other foreign countries is there oh the
fame footing as ours.
The fyflem of both colintric», in fact,
in this refpeft, is the fame ; the different
(ituation of the two countries create! the
difference of measures.
France, lie dated, had (hewn us nrt
friendfhip in this branch of trade ; she has
endeavored to eftablifli her fifherics on the
ruin of ours, by tempting our fifhtrtnen eo
fettle at Dunkirk. If in the prohibition
ot Great Britain of this article we fee th«
spirit of a felfifh rival, in the policy of the
French, We fee the manoeuvres of in iufidi«
ouß friend.
If the French regulations operate fotoe
what in favor of our whale oil, they are more
than counter balanced by their reftriftionS
on our fifh. To elucidate the spirit of our
commercial system in this refpedt, it was
well to mention two or three fa£ts. In '84
an arret was paflfed giving foreign fifh ad
mission into the Weft-Indies ; '85 a pre
mium was granted in favor of their fifh
imported there ; in seven days after the
palling of the arret making this regula
tion, the duty on foreign fifh was raised
from 3 to 5 livres. Another arret was
past giving exports from the United States
a right to be deposited in the dominions
of F ranee and 2 months after Jt/h was po
sitively excepted.
Pot and Fearl-Afh. The regulations
of Great Britain as to these articles are
most favorable.
Indigo. Great Britain also here fa
vors us moll.
Live Cattle. On the fame footing in
both countries.
Flax-feed, also.
Naval (lores. More favored byG.Britain
Iron, Bar and Pig. Great Bi stain
more favorable. In France there is no
diftinftion for or againfl; in Great Bri
tain there is a diltin&ion in our favov,
even to the prejudice of exportations of
this article from Ireland, which pay a
high duty. The Secretary of State, to
take away the merit of this discrimina
tion in our favor, fays, that it is of no
advantage to us, as we have no more than is
necefTary for our own consumption. Mr.
Smith remarked, w hen the dilHn&ion was
made, it was a circumstance not forc
feen, and is owing to our great encreafe
of manufactures. Iron to the ajiaunt
of between 80 and 90,000 dollars, is ex
ported to Great Britain.
From what lie said of exports it mult
appear, he conceived, that our principal
productions are more favored bv the B.ii
tifh than the French permanent fyflem
before the revolution.
He proceeded to lay before the com
mittee a comparative ftateir-nt of the va
lue of expbiU of pur principal ilapje
commodities to trance and Great Britain
and their colonic, for the year, ending
with September I 790, as follows:
S E R.
Fish OylValue of exports from the United State*
to Fiance and Great-Britain and their
colonies, in the year ending with Sep-
tember 1750.
CArtjj ft 1 n
3 * r ' S ■ , •
» ' , 2. ' .
. &
H M UJ N U
_ - NJ O H X M VO
m , 0 C\4- N» »<* 3
r» v v P"£ £- N - "ccj. o> |
R *ii?o N ° 2. 1,1 3>+ ' 1 "** S
O o*o -*4 v. O 00 CN-t. — M ig >-« •
•. • 1
1
1 »
. —i r 1
■+* .£» GO .£k --4 i- -I k*-^
?" OW+ -? ?
v 00 O o ~
>0 ~~1 4»- M-a <} S.
Q 28
- y
o*s*o
" o S 1
M o 4,
O* ONOd « O V
O O ON o\4»- -4 VO *
»-. NO *-a ON<>» 2;
Cj tA» H H 4. H \C go ,>
-f* +* O -J O C ►*>
w O 0+ *
C\"£
B^o
w N a>
WOOMsjWI •
ON ON N) M o M M QO
v-n "on Nno O
BC\ Cw NXCOCO Ho O .
won - ON v*«
The aggregate of exports in this year
he made to amount:
Dollars Dollars
Fiancc, 1,393,286 Gr. Brit. 6,651.429
Fr. 111. 3,031,050 Br. W. 111.1,805,744
Fr. tot. 4,424,336 Br. tot. 8,457,173
From this view of the subject which is
favorable to France, for in the year taken,
much flour was sent to their I (lands, tho'
prohibited in ordinary times it yet appears
that our experts to France are very littL
more than half those to the dominions of
Grrat Britain.
He next proceeded to compare the
years 1790, '91 and '92 —year ending
with
Sep.) Britain France Dif.infav.B.
'90 9,246,606 4,668,902 4,577,704
'9' 7.953.4'S 4> 2, 9>75 2 3.733> 666
•92.8,269,495 5,243,543 3,025,922
The Average of these three years' exports
in favor of Great Britain is 3,752,760.
If a judgment is to be founded on fafls
in relation to exports, it will appear that
Great Britain is a better customer than
France, under her permanent regulations,
in the ratio, of two to one.
But the Secretary of State, to do a
way the force of this undoubted (late of
facts, fays, that a great part of the com
modities, Great Britain receives from us
{he exports to other countries under the
disadvantage of charges of intermediary dc
polit and of double voyage. The Secretary
he believed, founded his aflertion upon a
statement made by Lord Sheffield, prior
to our revolution, which is, in the prc
fent Hate ef things, surely no standard-
Before the revolution, Great Britain had
almoil the monopoly of our trade j we
had but little diretk foreign commerce;
Great Britain was the intermediary : But
since our declaration of independence mat
ters have very materially changed ; Great
Britain acts no longer in that capacity to
such *n extent, and our foreign commerce
with other nations is extensive. He en
larged upon this part of the fubjeft to
(hew that Mr. Jefferfon's expectation, and
that those observations could not not ap
ply in the present state of things.
But even supposing that one third of
the articles exported to Great Britain,
from this country, were thence exported,
(and this he conceived a great proportion
indeed) even then Great Britain would
be a greater a&ual consumer than France,
by a great difference.
He offered a calculation to (hew, that
even in this cafe Great Britain was a grea
ter consumer, upon an average, in the sum
of about 2,000,000 of dollars, allowing
not a dollars' worth to be re-exported
from France.
He made another observation on the
remarks of the Secretary, relative to re
exportation It might not-be always the
interest of thi» country to carry her pro
du&ions to a favorable market if they
could not there obtain commodities in ex
change and a freight back. In such •
state of things it might be more advanta
geous to have an intermediate market, as
England, which in this relation rather
tends to extend than abridge our com
mercial advantages, and it ai ufeful alrr.oil
as if (he aftuiHy consumed that produce.
The exiilence of such a fyffem, not for
ced, is a proof that it is not injurious.
From this view of the subject there was
little weight in the assertion of the Secre
tary of State in his report, that the quan
tity of our commodities re-exported by
Great Britain is greater than comports
with our interell.
But even supposing that Great Britain
re-exjiorts one third of the whole of her
imports from this country, even then Ihe
woyld (till be a greater consumer of our
produce than France.
With refpeft to imports, the great a
mount of importations from Great Bri
tain is by some confulered as a grievance,
he conceived it only demonstrates the uti
lity of the trade. The object of the re
solutions is to diminilh it. If we did
thi» for the encouragement of manufac
tures here, an object not contemplated by
the resolutions, there might be ground for
argument in favour of them on this score;
but the object avowed is to turn the tide
of trade at present enjoyed by one nation
in favor of another, and that by subjec
ting our citizens to an inconvenience.
There are several obvious reasons why
our intercourse with Great Britain is so
great. Great Britain is thefirft manufac
turing country in the world, and is bed
able to ftipply us with an assortment of
tl.e articles we want: die also obtains a
preference by the length of credit (he al
lows. It is of great advantage, he said,
that a country wanting capital as this does
(hould be able to flourifh by aid of foreign
capital. No circumstance has so much
nourished the industry of this country as
the use of foreign capital. Our own ca
pital, we have thereby been able to apply
to the improvement of (hip building, ma
nufa&ures, and other objects.
France, the advocates for trade with
that country, afiert, can supply us on bet
ter terms than Great Britain. To do this
they must not only furni(h us with articles
of equal quality at a lower price, but
must allow us a credit ; and it is well
known that her merchants either will not
or cannot do this.
He (hould not dwell, he said, upon the
deranged date of French manufactures.—
It could not be aflerted that, though they
can fiirnifli some few articles on more ad
vantageous terms than the Britiih, they
can offer so great a number and such an
aflortment. TradV left to regulate itfelf,
will always flow in those channels where
its best interests lead.
He (hould not deny, that it is in a de
gree disadvantageous to ,a nation to depend
on one nation only, for a supply of the ar
ticles (he may Hand in need of ; this de
pendence is not to be (haken off by arti
ficial methods, and in facrificing our own
interests ; we are not to lessen the import
ation of Briti(h manufactures, by high du
ties, in order to counterbalance the dis
advantages other countries may labour
under, in their intercourse with us; that
is giving a bounty out of our own pockets
not for the encouragement of our manufac
tures, but for those of another country.
Such duties woidd have this effect, by e
nabling the importers of merchandize
from that country, to raise their price, to
the level of the price of the dutied arti
cles, and the price of Briti(h articles
would thereby only be rendered higher.
The very neceflity of laying a duty on
British manufa&uree, in order that other
manufactures (hould find a (ale among us,
is a proof that the firft can be afforded
more reafonablv or* suit us better.
The advantage of credit may be cried
down by some, who will assert that it is a
disadvantage in trade. It might as well be
said, that credit is an injury to the young
fettlrr of new land, or to the taylor who
purchases cloth, to make clothes of. It
certainly is one of those good things which
are liable to abuse j but it is an excellent
substitute for capital, and is an amazing
encouragerof trade and indultry. To the
indolent and (lothful only, it is pernici
ous.
He concluded this part of his observa
tions, by recapitulating what he had said,
to shew that Great Britain is as good a
fupplierto this country, as (he is a cus
tomer.
There was one more view of the fub
jeft, he said, as it relates to navigation.
Our trade with Great-Britain is as free
iu our own bottoms, as in theirs, for the
transportation of our produce, a few tri
fling port charges excepted, which is
not the cafe with other nations; in France
weenjoythe fame advantage* granted to the
molt favored nations, & rio more. So far the
eomparifon i» in favor of Great-Britain.
111 the Weft-Indies, it is true, a different
state of things exists j but the difference,
on a more elofe view, is not so material as
it at firft appears. Our bottoms are all
excluded from the Britilh Islands, except
Turk's Island : The French permanent
fyllem admits of all our vessels, of 60
ton 6 & upwards; but this advantage (he al
lows to all other nations. It was more
material however, he remarked, that our
trade in our own bottoms, should be free
with Great-Britain in Europe, than in her
Weft-India colonies, a« not more than 1-3
of our exports go to the last mentioned
quarter.
The effett of the difference in the regu
lations of the two rival nations, is not so
considerable as the Secretary of State re
presents it, especially as our tonnage is af
fected. The Secretary states the tonnage
we employ in our intercourse with France,
at 116,410 tons, and that employed in
our commerce with Great-Britain, at
43 >5 So tons ; this account is founded on
a mistaken calculation. The Secretary of
State i 6 guided by the actual entries of
American bottoms, from the dominions of
each country, in the year; which, owing
to our intercourse with the French Weft-
Indies, whither four voyages may be made
in the course of the year, will make our
tonnage employed in that quarter, be
counted four times, when the tonnage of
vessels trading with Europe, will appear
but twice in the fame period. Thus this
mode of calculation is deceptive, and there
fore the Secretary of the Treasury was
called upon, for an account of the actual
state of the tonnage employed in our trade
with foreign nations, for one year.
By this account of the actual tonnage,
it appears, that France employs no more
than 82,510 tons of our tonnage, and
Great-Britain 66,582 tons, leaving an ex
cess in favor of France, of not more than
15,928, infteadof 72,830, which the Se
cretary of State makes it. This (hews that
the report of that-gentleman is, not ground
ed upon that accuracy and extent of in
formation, which we might have expected.
He recapitulated, and from what he
had (hewn believed, he had a right to fay,
that the commercial system of Great-Bri
tain towards us, far from being hostile, is
friendly ; that (he makes a number of dis
criminations in our favor, and gives U6 the
preference, in many instances; and that
France, only in one solitary instance, the
article of fi(h-oil, not very important, pla
ces us in a better Gtuation than her rival
does.
If this is a true picture of the exiiling
state of things, and he could not fee where
it is deficient in truth, then, he aflced, is
it not time that the deception praftifed on
the people by the eulogills on the com
mercial system of France and revilers of
that of Great-Britain, thould be re
moved ?
If pafling from a consideration of the
state of fefts, a survey of the exiiling
motives is contemplated, he believed there
would be found as little room for cenfnre
on the one hand, as for eulogy on the
other; both nations were probably guided
by what they eonceived their interest. He
made feme obfervationi to prove this posi
tion, and concluded by a few remarks on
the propriety of avoiding, in the difcuflion
of this fubjett, every political topic, that
might be attempted to be connected with
it.
CTj* The foregoing is a very contracted
and umperfeß Jketch of the speech of Mr.
Smith—a more full and correcl account oj
•which is now preparing for the press, and
will speedily be published. Short notes of a
speech containing such a variety of important
matter and numericalJlatements, muj: neces
sarily convey hut a very imperfeS idea of
the fads and inferences.
[Debate to be continued.]
For tht Gazette of the United States.
To the Senate and House of Representa
tives of the United States, in Congress
afiembled,
The Memorial of the Live Oak and
Cedar, and other trees, situate on naviga
ble water, in the United States.
Humbly Sheweth,
That your memorialists the aticient abo
rigines of the country, have seen with pe
culiar pleasure, the prosperity and happi
ness of its citizens, and especially their
enlargement from the yoke of foreign thral
dom, by the magnanimous declaration of
1776 —that in consequence, they had flat
teied themselves, the day was at length
come, when they were to quit their old,
erect, and local positions, for the purpose
of going on their travels into foreign
parts ; and of surprizing every sea with
the celerity of their operations, and tkc
benefits they were every where intended
to confer.
But, that to their great grief, it would
seem as if the influence of some foreign
trees combined together, and known by
the name of the Wooden Walls of Great-
Britain, were to defeat the laudable aspi
rations of your memorialists, in their pro
jected race of glory ; and to impede that
destination to which God and nature have
given them the JUfteft pretensions.
For your memorialists have been redu,
ced to the necessity of feeing some of their
neighbors of the sorest, cut down, in order
to make hoops, staves, and other kind of
lumber of, and yet, your memorialists,
tho' they had so fair and natural a right,
to convey their brethren across the Ocean,
to Jamaica, and elfewheve, where life was
made of them ; yet these foreign trees
dared to invade the privileges of your me
morialists, they have taken indeed, the
staves and lumber, that they indispensably
wanted, but have denied to your memori
alists, all right oftranfporting them.
Your memorialists are indeed, sensible
of the benefits conferred on them, since the
Federal Government was established—
Having seen with delight, many noble
piles of (hips, eonftrufted from then
growth, in every part of America, who
have done great honor to the United
States, and brought them large emolu
ments ; but still they fee with pain, and
indignation, too many foreign boards, and
timbers, yet employed to the great mortifi
cation of your memorialists : and which
it only wants a little firmnefs and resolu
tion on your part, utterly to prevent.
Your memorialists therefore entreat yvu,
to take their cafe into eonfideration, fueh
of your honorable bodies, as (hall advocate
their claim ; they promise to fan with their
choicett breezes in the Summer and Spring
ensuing, and to cover with their broad
and protecting (hade—While laurels and
palms, shall adorn their names to very late
and distant posterity—as among those who
have the best merited of their country—
and for their happiness and prosperity your
memorialists as in duty bound, will alwayt
pray.
Signed by the Live Oak,
the Cedar,
the Pine,
And a variety of other valuable, independ
ent trees of the United States.
For the Gjzcttk of the United Statu.
Mr. FennO,
You are requested to publilh the following
Letter in your Gazette, and oblige
yours,
St. Lucia, October 28,1793.
MeJfrt.John Corlis& Co.
GENTLEMEN,
IT is with pain that I communicate to
you the particulars of our voyage—they
are such as not only immediately concern
yourselves, but are deeply interesting to
every American—they are these : When
I left Providence, I diretted the Captain
to proceed for Barbadoes, but falling to
the leeward, we on the 30th of September
made Martinique—the breeze then favor
ing, we hauled our wind, and stood for our
intended port. The next morning, about
7 leagues to the windward of Martinique,
which was still in fight, we fell in with an
Engli(h privateer, fitted out at Bermuda,
called the Experiment, and commanded by
a Captain Morgan; they took us as a
prize, under the pretence that we had an
intention of supplying the French with
naval (lores, and convoyed us to Barbados,
where we arrived the 3d inft. .Our papers
were laid before the Attorney-General of
that Island, who, after detaining us five
days, gave his opinion that they could have
no claim to us as a prize. Our vefiel being
again at liberty, I remained at Barbados
and fold my cargo ;on the 18th we left
Barbados, having on board about 27 JO
dollars in cash, seven puncheons of rum, a
few barrels of naval stores, and a few barrels
of beef. I intended to have touched at
Martinique, in order to have fold my
rum, Bcc. but in running down, we on the
19th, at the windward of this Island, feD
in with a French privateer fitted out at
Martinique, called La Diligent, command
ed by a Capt. Fabru ; they came on board
of us with naked poignards, and demand
ed the keys of our chest, which being de
A. C.liveredtothem, they took paffeffion of all
our papers, and went immediately to plun
dering our cloths and cabin stores ; they
then lent the captain, the mate and my
felf, on board the privateer, where we
were kept separated, and not permitted to
talk with each otb-r; if we attempted it,
we received a kick, and were called damned
Englishmen—they several times drewtheir
knives, and threatened to cut our throats.
On Sunday the 20th, they brought us
into the harbor of Callres, the chief town
of this island. On Monday the 21ft our
trial came on before the Court of Admi
ralty, before whom the captain, mate and
myfelf, weie separately exa
mined ; but not a paper was produced to
them refpe&ing the register and clearance
from Barbados j all our other papers, fay
the sea letters, portage bill, bill of lading,
invoice of our outward cargo, my orders,
the captain's orders, my account current at
Barbados, &c. &c. were secreted or de
flroyed. After I had been before the Court
of Admiralty, and was again taken on
board the privateer, I expressed myfelf
somewhat freely respecting the villainy of
the captain in destroying my papers, in
eonfequence of which he put me in irons.
On the 2id our vefTel and cargo were
condemned as a prize, and an order sent
off from the Authority, for the fix English
prisoners belonging to the schooner Alice,
captured by La Diligent, to be commit
ted to proifon. We were then taken on
store and committed td prison as Englilh
prisoners, and treated in every refpeft as
prisoners of war; in the day time we had
the liberty of a small yard, but at night
were closely confined in one-common room
with'negroes, English prisoners, & French
malefaftora. Our allowance, a small loaf
of bread with a little fait fifh, and plenty
of water. There fortunately happened
to be two American vessels at this place, to
the Captains of which we are greatly in
debted for their afliitance; through their
influence, and a petition to the Governoi,
we were yesterday, after an imprisonment
of days liberated from goal. The of
ficer j and whole crew being a set of pirates,
robbed us of every tiling, not one of us
has any clothes or a farthing of money j
one fliirt, an old great coat, and a pair of
©verballs are all the clothes I possess ; my
watch they made bold to take from me the
second night I was on board the privateer,
and before our vessel was condemned ; the
day after (he was condemned they took her
to Martinique where I suppose they im
mediately fold her.
As for the Judges, they believed or
pretended to believe all the captain of the
privateer told them; they fuffered us to
be kept- on board the privateer, where no
American was permitted to go off to fee
us, and when we were carried on shore to
be examined before the court, no Ameri
can was allowed to speak to us. Thus
you fee, we had no opportunity of gaining
friends, of employing counsel, or any
chance for a defence. The merchants and
people in general at this place, are con
vinced of the injultice of the condemnation
and profefs to be our friends, and I flatter
myfelf with the idea that the property
will be restored and damages recovered.
Restitution in some way or other must be
made : if the property of the owners of
the privateer be infufficient, the colony of
St. Lucia is liable—• —if the colony of St.
Lucia refufe to do it, the Nation at large
must be accountable. I have taken a co
py of the condemnation, and protested a
gainst it, which is all that is neceflary to
be done here. To-morrow Capt. Goold
and myfelf take passage to Martinique
where the principal proprietors of the pri
vateer live. I (hall there represent the
matter to the American Consul, to whom
I wrote very particularly on the 2jth, but
whose answer I have not yet received, and
(hall take his advice ; I do not however
expe£t to get a bill to obtain redress with
out returning to America, for copies of
those papers that have been destroyed.
Those are my adventures, those the cir
cumstances of the voyage, and such has
been our treament by our friends the
French.
I am gentlemen, with the greatest ref
peft, your most obedient and very
humble servant
JOSEPH BRIDGHAM.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editok.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
- October 19.
Billaud Varennes, in the name of the
committee of public fafety, communicat
ed the following letter:
Head-Quarters, Maubeuge, Oft. 17,
the sixth day of the third decade
of the firft month of the Republic,
one and indivitible.
" The Reprelentatives of the people
of the army of the north to the National
Convention :
" The Republican army has vanquish
ed that of the combined despots, who have
disappeared before it: and we have entered
Maubeuge in the midst of the acclamations
of the people and of the numerous garri
son delive ed by us. The battle lasted
two successive days, from the break of
day till ni^ht; we were ready to re-com
mence it this morning, when our recon
noitering parties brought word that no e
nemy were to be seen. Our troops then
took pofleflion of their camp, which was
strewed with carcases.
" Never were more formidable disposi
tions made against any place. The en
trenchments which the enemy chrew up
with the greatest activity for seventeen
days, wljould have dismayed and discoura
ged any other than French and republican
troops.
" Cobourg thought his position so un
attackable, that he said, ' I own that the
French are fierce republicans, and I (hould
become so myfelf were they to drive me
hence.' Our brave fellows being told of
this, the pod was carried an hour after
wards. The enemy having united all their
forces at this decisive moment, forced us
for a minute to evacuate it; our foldiens
drove them from it a second time ; the e
nemy again re-took it. The republicans,
indignant, at so much resistance, charged
with fixed bayonets, and came off victori
ous. The enemy fled with precipitation,
and all their artillery would probably have
fallen into our hands, if the garrison of
Maubeuge could have been informed of
what was pafling on our fide, and made
a sortie at the fame time that we attacked
the enemy in front.
" The coup-de' effai of General Jour
don, in having beaten Cobourg, is the bell,
eulogy of his talents ; his patriotism is the
theme of all his companions in arms. He
was well seconded by the generals under
his command.—You will without doubt
again declare, that the army of the North
have deserved well of their country.
" The enemy, in flying; committed the
most horrible devaluations. They burnt
almost all the villages ; they revenged their
disaster on the unhappy country people.
The law declares, that they (hall be in
demnified. This should be done as soon
as poflible, and we have provisionally pla
ced the sum of 200,000 livres, at the dis
posal of the diftridt of Avefnes, in order to
lupply the principal wants of these victims
of Cobourg's imperial and royal rage.
(Signed) " Carnot, DuciyESNoy,
and Bar."
Another letter from General Jourdon
confirmed the news of this victory :
" The enemy loft 6000 men : we had
only 200 killed, and 1200 wounded."
The National Convention decreed, that
the army of the North have a second time
deserved well of its country.
Upon Goffuin's proportion, the com
mittee of public fafety was ordered to fix
the indemnities due to the unfortunate ci
tizens of the North ruined by the enemy,
and the President was charged to write a
letter of fatisfa£lion to the army of the
North.
" The committee of public fafety,"
added Billaud d« Varennes, " has thought
the army ought not to confine itfelf to the
delivering of Maubeuge. It has written
to the Representatives of the people, and
to General Jourdon, to pursue the enemy,
and not to flop till the latter are entirely
defeated."
LONDON, Oft. 29.
The French, animated by their success
at Maubeuge, are attacking the whole
chain of polls that cover Maritime Flan
ders.
On the 22d, they entered Furnes. The
garrison confiding of 400 Hessians, under
the command of Gen. Wurms, retreated
to Nieuport, whither the French imme
diately followed.
The j3d was the only British regiment
at Nieuport, making with some Hanove
rians, and 100 of the Irish anillery,about
700 men, but unprovided with cannon to
fuitain a siege. The (luices were opentd
to inundate the country,and fuccoure were
expe&ed from Oltcnd ; but towards the
evening of the 23d, the place was evacua
ted by the allies, and soon afterwards, was
observed to be on fire.
The garrison got fafe to Oftcnd, where
the 4 regiment* lately embarked had re
landed. When the accounts camc away,
the enemy had not appeared at Oftend,but
as their force and their motions were equal
ly unknown, a considerable alarm prevail
ed.
October 28,
The hon. Temple Luttrell, whom the
Parisians honor with the appellation of bro
ther-in-law to the King of England, is
now in a very disagreeable and dangerous
predicament. A petition has been pre
sented to the Convention that he may be
inclosed in an iron cage, and that an ap
peal be made to the people of Great Bri
tain. The only crime which is imputed
to him is, that by the marriage of his lif
ter with the Duke of Cumberland, he is
related to the King.
DEAL, Oft. 28-
This morning Sir Charles Grey, Gen.
Dundas, Col. Jervis, Major Maitland,&c
arrived at the Three Kings Hotel, and af
ter partaking of a cold refrefhment, im
mediately embarked cn board the Quebec
frigate, and failed for Ofteud, withAdm-
Macbride. An express arrived here early
this morning to the Admiral, to fay, that
the troops on board the transports, and in
Plymouth and Portsmouth, viz. the 3d,
28th, 54th, and 59th regiments, bound
to the Weft Indies, &c. had (in(tead)been
ordered to proceed to Oftend immediate
ly, as that place is in hourly expeflation
of being inverted by the French troops, &
without a considerable reinforcement can
holdout but a very (hort time.
A detachment of the guatds, amount
ing to 600 men, will embark on Friday
next, under tbe command of major-ge
neral Grinfield, to join the army under
the command of his royal highness the
Duke of York.
On the 25th inft. his majesty's (hip the
Blande, in which Gen. Prefcot and Gen.
Dundas, lately failed for the Weft Indies
was chafcd into Falmouth by 3 French
frigates. The French were at one time
within (hot of the Blande, but by throw
ing part of their (tores overboard, (he out
sailed them.
The very critical fitnation, in which
Oftend was known to be on the evening of
the 23d, and the Flanders mail due yef
derday, not having yet arrived, gave birth
to a variety of reports. We (hall menti
on only that which, wifiling it to be true
we think the mod probable.
A letter is said to be received from
Commodore Murray, dated Odtober 26,
dating that having found me*ns to com
municate with Major Matthews, the
commanding officer of the fifty-third regi
ment at Nieuport, major Mathews deter
mined on making a vigorous resistance ;
and that by the aid of three guns planted
on the sands in such a fitnation as to seem
undercover of the guns of the ships, altho'
111 reality the ships were prevented by the
wind, from affording them any effectual
prote&ion, the French were checked in
their approach, and their attack repelled.
It is added, that the 53d loft 17 men and
two officers.
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 16.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in
Bristol, to his brother in this City, da-
ted October 6, 1793
" Times, Cnce I wrote last, are not al
altered in any refpeft forthebetter. Warliat
made strange alterations here, and, if the
People of your fide know what they are
about, they will do all in their power to
preserve Peace. We are informed, there
were several privateers fitted out in the
United States on account of the French;
no doubt it may be to the advantage of
some individuals, but, if it (hould in the
end bring on a war, it will be very much
to the injury of your rising empire, and
flop up the only avenue by which the dif
trefled of all Europe, can hope to flee to
better times.
" I do not wifti you to think me an ene
my to France—l consider them fmgly,
and alone, as ftniggling for their Liberty,
and the Liberty of all Europe—and, in the
end, I have not the lcaft doubt, but that
they will be fuccejlfu/. The whole «f the
force againil them this year, (and I at
not think greater exertions can be made than
•what have been,) have made scarcely r.ny
impreifions on them ; and it is my opinion,
that before next spring, things will take a
great turn in their favor.
"We have had a melancholy scene in
Bristol this week: The time for the ex
piration of the Bridge-Tax being arrived,
the people expe&ed it to be taken off.—
The Bridge Commiflioners let the Toll
again ; a riot ensued—a mob who had as
sembled on the bridge, burned the toll-gates.
The magilt rates called out the military,
and in a wanton manner, ordered them to
fire on the People ; on which, the soldiery
fired in all directions, down every Street
near the bridge, by which 70 or 80 people
were killed and wounded—l 7 are alrea
dy dead, a.d more it is expc&ed will die.
" The government is so afraid of a re
volution, that Guns and Bayonets arc ap
plied on the moll trifling occasion."
Congress of the United States.
House of Rtpref ntathvrs.
Wednesday, Jan. i,
( Concluded. J
A resolution received from the Senate,
proposing an amendment to the Conititu
tion, was read and laid on the table.—
This refers to the suability of states.
The papers accompanying the meflage
of the President of the United States, re
ceived this day, it was voted, {hould be
printed.
Mr. Boudinot of the committee appoin
ted to enquire and report on the acts that
are near expiring, reported fundryaftsin
that predicament.
A petition of Jacob Millegan, of South-
Carolina, was read—and referred to the'
Secretary of the Treasury.
A . report on the petition ofEphraim
Kimberly was read—and referred to a fe
left committee, to prepare and bring in a
bill- Adjourned.
Thursday, Jan, 16.
The resolution received from the Senate
yeftcrday, proposing an amendment to the
constitution of the United States, was rtml
the second tiime, and made the order of
the day for Monday next.
In committee of the whole, Mr. Trum
bull in the chair—The report of the Se
cretary of State, on the foreign commerce
of the United States—and the resolutions
of Mr. Madison rounded thereon—were
again under consideration—Mr. Nicholas
spoke largely on the subject in favor of the
general principle of the resolutions—some
observations were made by several other
members—the committee at length rose
and reported progress.
A meflage was received and read from
the Proficient of the United States, com
municating intelligence recently received
from Europe. This intelligence was con
tained in extraiSs of letters which origi
nated in a correspondence between our mi
nister at Paris, and the French minister
for foreign 2'fairs, relative to sundry com
mercial tranfaftionS— the detention of
American vessels in the harbour of France
—and the capture of the American fliip
Laurens, &c. There was one paper writ
ten in French, which it was directed,
ftiould be translated.
A communication was received from
the Secretary of the Trealiiry, containing
ftateraents refpefting the loan-offices
read and laid on the table.
After reading and referring several pe
titions, See.—the house adjourned.
A letter from Baltimore to a gentle
man in this city informs, that a veflel is
arrived there from Amsterdam—the cap
tain of which reports, that the French
hare taken Oftend, the army and milita
ry stores therein—that the Duke of York
accompanied by one officer, only, had
made his escape, and was arrived in En
gland—Theabove velTchvas in the Downs
abeut the middle of November, wl
Captain received this Intelligence.
PRICE of STOCKS.
Philadelphia, 1794.
6 per cents, 18/
3 ditto, \of
Deferred, I if
IT. S. Bank, ii per .cent, advance.
N. A. ditto, 20 ditto ditto.
Pennsylvania do. 7 ditte ditt*.|uft Imported,
From I.ondos, Dublin and GL.iSGOfr,
And now opening so
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jireet%
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following
NE W Annual Regiiterfor I 792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of I 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empii
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Pi ieftly on matter and spirit
on ehrfftianity
Difnev's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Jo!i
M-tnty. a collection of efTays
Varieof Pruflia'i works
Calm observer— by Mackintosh
Ruiletl's ancient and modern Europe
J.angho'n*'s Plutarch
Elegant extracts, fuperblv «ilt
Elfcgant extracts of natural history
Saug.nier and Briffon's voyage
R >chon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
TaflYs Jerufaiem delivered
Sniellie's translation of Button
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Butfon abridged
History of bird*
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiofltic* of literature, 3 vol*:.
Whi taker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan'.? dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
I inlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present ft ate of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on phyfiognoiny, abridge*
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kitfes of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's mills dfempires
Vaillaiut's travN, with superb engravings
Dnwnixiaa's infancy
Adair's fiiftary of American Indians
Benington on materialifin and immaterialifni
Bercho'd's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
D? Kon's travels
Franklin's life and works,
Grozier's description ot China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on pol ticaljuftice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetia* on man
Kaimes's (ketches of the history of ma*
Li!> rat opinion?, t>r the history of Benignus
Muwe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith*? theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watfoi/s life of Philip Hd. & Hid.
Wonders <ff nature aud art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wall's on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruffia,Poland,See.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motberby's medical dictionary
Grlgg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid-
wifery
Manning'? practice of phytic
Cleghorn'* diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mafcles
Pott's works
Fourcrov's chemistry
Armft-ong on diseases of children
Qiiincy'sd fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
"Withering on rhe fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Htller's physiology
Spalanzane'i dissertations
London practice of physic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
MONEY borrowed or inaned, accounts da
ted or collected, employers suited with
domestics, house rooms, boarding and lodging
Rented, lit or procured—soldier's, mariner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims on the
public ; (bares in the banks, in thecanals, and
the turnpike road ; certificates granted by the
public, and the old and late paper monies ;
potet of hand, bills, bonds and morgages, with
or without drpofiu—Bought, fold, or nego
tiated at No. 8, in south Sixth-street, below
Market-street by FRANCIS WHITE,
Who tranfadt bufineft in th« public oflues for
country people and others, by virtue of a pow
er of attorney, or by perfoaal application.
December It. d
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying
groutid,
r this opportunity of returning his
X grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requeuing their future favors, as well as
thole of'the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
fftoi test notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaclie.;, chariots, photons with and
withobt cvaic necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, wii dior fulkeysand Chaits, and harness
ol'every description, in the neatest and newest
fa (hi on now prevailing »u the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the belt seasoned
wuod by him, ard capital workmen, he has
not the least dou'it but he will be able to give
sari .faction to thole who pleafc lo employ him
He has for Tale, several carriages aim oft
finiflied, such as coaches, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on fleel springs, a tight phaeton for
one or two horse.*., and a fulkey with a falling
Carriages fold on Commission,
Philadelphia, Jan'. 6, 1794 m&t3m
ALL peiM'oni having any demand againfl
the Eft ate and Etfeft's of Mrs. MARY
SINDREY. widow, late of Frankford, Ox
ford town Ihip, in the State of Pennsylvania,
fleceaied; are desired to produce their ac
counts to Jacob Leshe* and Willi a m Creed,
(in Frankford, afore'aid,) Executors and Ad
ministrators of the above in oider for fettle
meot. And whoever is indebted to said Kf
tate, See. are requeued to itiake payment to
the afore laid Administrators, on or before the
16th of March, 1794, or they will be dealt
with according to law.
F r anliford, Dec. 16.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, brgs leave to of
f r his ferviccsto his friends and others, in the
line o( a Stock. Broker. Thole who may pieafe
to favor h>m with their hufineCs, may depend
upon havirtg it tranfafted with the utmost fide
lity arid dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of (he United State?, will be ftri&ly
attended m. LEON A R D BLRECKER.
Encyclopedia,
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
B »6kPelle»', at the Stone House, in Second
ftreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionary
Ol A r ts, Sciences, and Miscellaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new j
Br which
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are cUgejled into the form of
Diftinlt Treaties or Svftems :
r T" , HIS volume contains principles of Levels,
i- Liberty, Doctrine of Light; Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
don, Longitude. Luther, Lydia, Macedoii,
Madagascar, Mngic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Milcellaneous articles, illuitrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number of faotilies are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the subscribers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
podible.
The t rnth tolu m * of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the pubhc; but as it makes
its appearance in an impcrfeft state, foine ac
count of the reason of that imperfection ihould
be jiivett. On the Bth of September last, the
Publisher had the misfortune of having his
Printing Oifice burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the riquRES, with
which he was printing the tables or Ld-
Oa rithms, belonging to the prei'ent volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the neceflity of pub
lifhing the volume without 'he e tables; but
hopes he fhallbe able to publish the in with the
next volume which is now in considerable for-
wardnefs.
The Publiflier embraces this opportunity of
exprelfing his grateful acknowledgments' to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to such of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible ne'eeflity of
puntfuaiity, both in taking up the volumes as
early as jmffityle after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the fub
feribers having got only One, two, threr, &rc.
volumes, and several volumes remain ukp aid.
Thus the work hangs in all Its diflerenUtages
from the commencement j and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles iwpmd lays the Publiflier under
very serious cmbarr ailment, and deprives him
of the use of many Thoufauds of Dollars which
at this ti&e would be of very essential service.
For these reasons the Publiflier finds himfelf
under the neceflity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes wi|jbe delivered but only to tho(b \frho
take and pay to the time of publication.
December 10. aawtlj.
A New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
R. A IT KEN,
No. 22, MarketJlreet,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philadelphia, for promoting Ufeful
Knowledge* Vol. 3. Pi ice zof in boards
The ftibfcribers are requested to call
as above directed for the 3d vol. where may
b« had, complete setts uniformly printed.
Contents of Vol. $d.
1. An efTayon thole enquiries in Natural Phi
losophy, which at prefect are moll benefici
al to the United States of North America.
Dr. Nicholas Collin,
2. Conjectures concerning the formation of
the earth, Bcc. Dr. B. Franklin.
3. A new and curious theory of Light and
Heat. Dr. B. Franklin.
4. Description of the process to be observed
in making large Iheetsof paper in the Chi
nese manner, with one smooth furface.
Dr. B. Franklin.
5. Queries and conjectures relative to Mag
netism, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
6. Explanation of a singular phenomenon, firft
observed by Dr Franklin, and not fatisfac
torily accounted for. Mr. R. PatterJon.
7. An account of an Earthy Substance found
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls; together with
some remarks on the Falls.
Robert MK'aufin, M. D.
8. Observations on the probabilities of the
duration of Human Life, and the progress
of population, in the United States of Ame
rica. William Barton, Esq.
9. A letter containing observations made at
Lake Erie, on that singular phenomenon,
by seamen termed looming.
Andre to Ellicot Esq.
Id. An Account of the Sugar Maple-Tree
of the United States, and of the methods
of obtaining Sugar from it, together with
observations upon the advantages both pub
lic and private of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rujh, M.D.
xi. Memoir on the use of the Thermometer
in discovering Banks, Soundings, See.
Jonathan Williams, Esq.
12. An Account of the most effectual means
of preventing the deleterious consequences
of the bite of the Crotalus Horridus, or Rat
tle Snake. Benjamin Smith Barton, M. D.
13. Magnetic Observations, made at the Uni
versity of Cambridge, (MalTachufetts.)
Dr. S. tfiUia.us.
14. Accurate determination of the right as
cension and declination of Bootes, and the
Pole Star. Andrew Ellicott, Esq.
15. Account of several Houses in Philadelphia,
struck with Lightning, on June 7th, 1780.
David Rittenhoufe, Esq.
16. An Account of the effedts of a stroke of
Lightning on a House furnilhed with two
Conductors. David Rittenhoufe, and Francis
Hjpkinfoi 1, Efqrs.
17. Experiments and Observations on Evapo
ration jn cold Air. C. Wifiar., A/. D.
18. Postscript to Mr. Barton's Letter to
Dr. Rittenhoufe, of the 17, of March,
19. New Notation of Music.
t&ftf.
Vol. X.
Mr. /?. Pattcfjon.
13. Observations on the Theery of Water
Mills, &c. W, Waring.
19. Aftronomicai Ob/ervations.
David Rittcnhoufe.
20 A letter relative to a method of finding
the sum of the several powers of the Sines
&c. David Rittenhoufcy Ess.
21. Index riorae Lancattrienifis.
Henrko Muhlenberg, D. D.
22. J.nveftigation »f the power of Dr. Bar
ker's, Mill, as improved by James Rumfey,
with a description of the mill. W. Waring.
23. A Thermoinetrical Journal of the tem
perature of the Atmosphere and Sea, on a
; voyage to and from Oporto, with explana
tory observations thereon.
Jonathan Williams, Esq.
24. Fi ft memoir of observations on the plants
denominated Cryptogamick.
M. De Btauvn's.
25. A letter, containing observations on the
ancient works of Art, the Native Inhabi
tants, &rc. of the Western Country.
Major Jonathan Heart.
26. An account of feme of the principal d'es
employed by the North American Indians.
Extracted by the late Mr. Hv%h Martin.
27. An account of the beneficial effects of the
Caflia Chanisecrifta in recruiting worn-out
land*, and'ln enriching such as are natural
ly poor ; together with a botanical descrip
tion of the plant.
Jfamei Greenuay of Virginia.
28. An account of a hill on the borders of
North Carolina, supposed to have been a
volcano, in a letter from a Continental of
ficer, to Dr. J. Greenway, Virginia.
29. An Accoun tof a poilonous plant, grow
ing fpontaneoufl? in the southern part of
Virginia. Ext rafted from a paper by
Dr. James Greenwa\ y Virginia.
30. Description of a Machine for measuring a
(hip's way. Francis Hopkinfon, Ifq.
31. An Inquiry into the question, whether the
A pi* Mellifica, or true Honey-Bee, is a na
tive of America. Benjamin Smith B*rton,M.D.
32. An Account of a Comet.
David Rittenhoufe, F.jq.
33. C admits «r a Treatise on the Element* of
Written Language, illustrating, by a Philo
fophicat -riivifion of Speech, the power of
each cbarcaAer, tliereby mutually fixing the
Orthography and Orthoepy. With an Etfav
•u tbc mode of teaching the Deaf, or Smd
And to be fold by
and consequently ,Dumb to Tpeak, by Vm.
Thornton, M. D. Honored with the Ma
gellanic Gold Medal, by the Philosophical
Society, in December, 1792. N. B.
Cadmus is printed in a fine 8. vol. ajid ibid
by the Publiffier hereof.
34 Obfervationt on the Theory of Water-
Mi lis. W. Waring.
35. An Improvemrnt on Metalic Condu&ors
or Lightning-rods. Alr. Robtrt Patter Jon.
Honored with the Magellanic Premium, by
an Award ot'the Society in December 17^2.
36. An eafv and expeditious method of dif*
fipating the noxious Vapour conunonlf
found in Wells and other fubrerraneous
places. kbenezcr Robinjon, bjq.
37* A method of draining Ponds in level
grounds. JeJJe HiarißK
38. Observations on the severity of the win
ter, 17jy, 1780. Rev. Matthew Wiljon.
39- A Description of a new Standard for
Weights and Measures j io a letter from
Mr. John Cooke, ot'Tipperary in Ireland.
40, Description of a Spring-Block, dcfigiied
to aflift a Veflel in failing. Francis Hopkinm
son y Ess. Honored with the Magellanic
Gold Medal, by an Award of the Society
in December 1790.
December 20,
ADVERTISEMENT
FOR the benefit of those who maybe con
cerned it may not be improper to notice p
that the United States, by their Ast of the lath
of February 1793, ordered that all Claims of
the description therein mentioned, and which
originated previous to the 4th of March 1789?
be profented at the Treasury on or before the
firft day of May 1794* otherwile they will
" for ever thereafter, be barred, and exclu
" ded from fettlenient or allowance." And
as there may be several Creditors of the Uni
ted.States, holding Certificates or other Se
curities, which form a part of the Domestic
Debt, and who wilh to fwbfcribe to the Loan,
they are reminded that the term for receiving
fubferiptions at the Treasury, is by the Ast of
the United States, passed thefecond of March
last, extended to the last day of June, 1794.
The following is an extaft from the Ast of
Limitation above referred to ;
Section I. il Be it enacted by the Senate
and House of Representatives of the United
States of America, in Congress assembled—
That all claims upon the United States, for
Services or Supplies, or for other caui'c, mat
ter or thing, furniflied or done, previous t»
the 4th day of March 1789* whether founded
tipon Certificates, or other written documents
from Public Officers or othei wife, which have
not already been barred by any Ast of Limi
tation, and which (hall not be presented at
the Treasury before the fit ft day of May 1 794,
(hall forever after be barred and prescribed
from settlement or allowance :
that nothing herein contained, lhall be con
strued to affect Loan-Office Certificates, C«r»
tificates of Final Settlements, Indents of In?
tereft, Balances entered in the books of the
register of the treasury commonly called regis
tered certificates,loans of monies obtained in
foreign countries, or certificates iflued pur la
ant to the Ast, intitled u An Ast, making pro*
vision for the Debt of the United States.
ADVERTISEMENT.
New-Jersey, > T)Y virtue of a Writ to me
SuflcxCounty. fr. J J3 dwetted, iffucd out of
the High Court ot Chancery of New- Jrrfcv, at
the fujt of William Shipley against John Ming
and others; I shall cxpofe to sale at Publiz Ven
due, on the sixth day of February next, between
the hours of Twelve and Five in the Afternooa
of the lame day , on the Premises, the follow mg,
described Trait ot Land, with its appurtenances,
fiiuate in the Towr)(hip of Oxford and County
of SufTex, beginning at a Chefnut Oak Tree, cor
ner oi Daniel Cox's land, and itonding in the'
line of a former fuivey made to Thomas Steven-.
f6n, being marked wuh the letter B. and then<<«
extending along Cexe's line (firftj louth fifky de
grees weft fifty,-five chains and feventy-five link#
to a Black Oak Treecorner of Joleph Shtppen'g
land (fcccnid) louth nine degrees and fifteen mi
nutes, weft ninety chains and sixty five links to
a-foiked Whue Oak Tree, marked with the let
ters P and B another of the said Shippen'a cor
ners (third) thence north eighty degrrcs, ealt one
Kilndred and forty-five chains, to a post on the
southerly fide of Paquaofte-River, being alio a
corner of John Reading's land (tourth) thence
north thirty-nine degrees welt, one hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place of beginning,
containing nine hundied and thirty acres with
the usual allowance for roads and high ways—
The fame Premises are within eight miles of ;he
River Delaware, and there is thereon a conveni
ent Grift Mill with two pair of Stones—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fuffceiem ftrcam of
water for their ufc—a Dwelling House. Store
House, and several small buildings.
MARK THOMPSON,Sheriff.
of July, 1793.
E. Oswald,
No. 156, Market-Street, South,
AT the request of a number of friends,'
-TX proposes publishing The Independent
Gazetteer, twice a week, viz. Wednefdavi
and Saturdays—to commence in January next,
if fufficient eucoeragement offers
It will be publiflied on Paper and Types
equal to its prcfent appearance. The sub
scription 3J dollars per ami.
Adv«rtifcments not exceeding a fquari,
will be inferred 4 times for 1 dollar—every
continuance onp fifth ps a dollar. Those •k-'
ceeding a square, in the fame proportion. \
PHILADELPHIA ;
P*i*tsd BY JOHN FENNO, Na. 3.
Soutli Faurtb-Street.
eodiw.