evening advertiser.
[No. 150 of VoK v.] Friday, June 6, 1794. [Whole No. 546.]
It is Requefred., •/'
THAT no person will ftipply any articles
for the u!e of the Naw The;ur«, without an
order in writing} ligned by ourfejves, or Sam
uel Anderforr, for us.
WIGNELL & REINAGLE.
May 30. dtf.
All p erf oris who have cmy de
31)iritis upon the New Theatre, are request
ed to their accounts to No. 204, in
Arch itrefct, near Eighth ltreet, as soon as
convenient.
WIGNELL & REIN \GLE.
May 3°. dtf.
To-Morrow Mottling,
Will fee landed fl«*ar Walnut fireet *iiaif,Trom I
on board the fchoop-er Madifbn, Jas. Pat
rock, maftcr, from MALAGA,'
Sweet Mountain WINE,
in quarter calks
Soft (helled Almonds in lacks
Muscatel R'alfin/tj in jars and
Bloom D**. in quarter barrels
A few 7 inch Bass Catfles y
toND Tor s/ft£ 'BY
PETER KUHN.
2 d6t
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY and FRENCH
BURR STONES,
FOR SALE BY
Gurney and Smith.
May 14. <1
JAMAICA RUM\
LANDING at aboVe
the Drawbridge, out of the ftijp Baochvs
Cept. V annum a n , fiom Jamaica,
FOR SALE BT
PETER BLIGHT.
May \6. rl
Ccngrefs of the United States,
In Senate, Tutjhay May 1 yh, 1794.
OKDEKhU, that Kni'uc Putiiam,ManaT
iah Robert Oliver and Griiltn
ihe thiri? Monday ot Decern,
ber next, fhe>r c Ast to the Senate, why so
much of the grants of land to them the said
Ruflis Putnam. Manaffuh Cutler, Robert
Oliver and Griffin Green, purfuarilt to an Ast
"An ast authorizing the grant and
'conveyance of certain lands to the Ohio Com
pany of afTociates," lhall not be declared
void, as may interfere with and be fuffjeient
to fatisfv the claims of the French settlers
at Galliopolis.
Ordered, fcuat the delivery of a copy of
the above order to Rulus Putnam, Manaffah
Cutler, Robert Oliver, or Griffin Green, and
the publication of the fame, one .nomh, in
one of ihe Gazettes printed in this City, fha-ll
be deemed fufficient notice thereof.
Extradl from the Journals of Senate.
' _ Attest,
SAM. A. OTIS, secretary.
Guthrie's Geography improved.
THE fubfeription lor this work on the ori
ginal terms, of twelve dollars and the bind
ing, will be doled this day—and on Monday
the lubfcrjption will open at fourteen dollars,
exclufiveot the price of binding.
The new maps added to this edition are
twenty one ; among which are those of New-
Hampshire, Massachusetts, Connecticut,
' Rhode-Iflaiid, V«nno«t, New York, New
Jcrfey, Penntylvania, Delawaie, Maryland,
Vuginia, Kentucky, North Carolina, the
ueneitee Government, South Carolina, and
Georgia. Thele maps have never been given
in any former system of Geography, a ,,d, it
hoped. Would alone be fufficient to entitle
•f 'tofe a Pre ' e " nCe 10 an ? °«her edition
N. B. Thejnap of the United States
7hJ°r r A n,P n" g by Mr ' S !m,,el Lewis,from
the refpeftive state maps, will be far more
complete than any one yet publilhcd, and be
printed on two'argelheet, of „£ r ,°
the size of the late Mr. Murray's map. -
May 31 K , 1
— ; d i
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. i lB ,
Mai ket-Strect,
An Jijffay on Slavery
i, °ff^ ned ,0 "hibit in a new po.m ol v
laboring people enioV fh,' J" pr °P° rtion *' tile
labor; ind ftenccthr n <r ° f lhcir ow »
slavery U
Februiry^'" 2so — dtf
i'
I , ,
Lady WalterftorfF,
Eow-aud Broock, Matter.
BURTHEN 17.00 barrels, fails ft ft, andi*
in conipleat order to take in a cargo immedi
ately.
Also for Sale or Charter,
Two New SHI J>S of the Inrrthen of 249 tons
each. For tenos appiy to
. JOSEPH SIMS,
Who has fsr fain,
Madeira and Sherry Wines,
of the fiift quality, Brandy, Hed and Pale
Jefuiis Bark, & c . & c .
June 2 £
0r
John Vannf/man, Master.
TO lajl *w\th all eppveaiertt fpefed, havirig
three*fburths 6f h£r Ciirgo already engaged.
For tVerglit or paifogfc apply to the matter on
board, or
THOMAS & JOHN KETLAND.
. j""* .3- d
or Charter,
To the Wrjl India Iflartds,
The new sloop \
A B B Y,
Samuel Eames, Master.
SHE is a (kauiich good vdilVl, in compleat
order, ard will carry about 900 barrels. For
terms apply to thecapaih on board at Cht'f-'
mit iirreet wharf, or to
JOSEPH ANTHONY Eif SON.
June 2 d6t
Wanted for Europe,
A flout anil fajl.failing
Oi about 150 tons,
"""A D
For Cape Niehola Mole, _
A Goodfajl failing Schooner or Brig about
ninety Toils,
B Y
. LOUIS OSMONT,
No. 117, north SecondflreeU
WHO (J AS FOR SALE r
A few Invoices of
Artificial Flowers, Feathers,
Fans, Ha,idfonie Looking Glasses framed.
"Window Gla s of every size,
Received by the brig Amiable Sophia, Capt.
Lo<wtber y •via New York.
Spermaceti Candies, Glaret and Burgundy in
cases, Champaignc Wine, all to be fold by
Invoice,
Also juji Received, I
A few Barrels
Fresh Superfine Flour.
Do. Ship-Bread, and a parcel of Prime Rice.
June 3.
— 1 1 I.
Treasury of the United States.
ALL Perfoiis who are mdirrcd to tlifpofe of
either of the different species of the Stocks of
the United States, are hereby notified, that
Piopofals will be received at the Treasurer's
office No. 71 Chefnut at any time un
til Friday the 13th instant at 12 o'clock.
SAMUEL MEREDITH
Agent for the Trustees for
the reduction of the Public
Debt.
June 4th. 1794. d. t. 12.
Just Publilhed,
By Bsnjamin JoHNSoify and fUd at his
Bookjlort, No. 147, Marietflrect,
The Life of Dr. Franklin,
with a (biking likeness, executed in a master
ly manner by Tliackara and .Vailance, price
five fliillingx.
The Keadv Reckoner, or Traders' Sure
Guide, 3/9
The Young Book keeper's Assistant, 6/3
The Chriftlan, a poem, by Charles Craw
ford, 2/4
Etop's Fables, 4JB
Swan's Bi irifli Aicliiteet-, 37/6
Pame's ditto 3:J
Town and.Country Builder's Afliftant. nf6
In the press, and luill bepublifhed in a fetv
days, and fold as above,
Reflections and Maxims, by
William Penn, with his advice to his chil
dren, 4JB.
6 mo. 2, 1794. m&wim
y A PLAIN COOK.
WANTED a middle aged ftngle Woman,
who underftandsplain Cooking; to luch a one
the bi-Ji <w a ges mill be given.
Apply t the Printer.
s _ Wa > 31 lot
i
SHERRY, I
LKBON j> WINES of the firft quality
TEN'ERIFFE J
Old Jamaica Spirit, Antigua and Weft India
Rum.
• Coniac, French and Pencb-Brandies
Claret _aud J?ott Wine bf ~a superior quality
in cases.
Win: Cyder and Vinegar, in pipes and lihds.
Corks in Bales, Havannah Segars in Boxes.
Philadelphia Porter, in Casks and Bottles.
Condon do. in do. do.
Philadelphia Ale and Beer in do. do.
London do. in do. do. and (l
Gyder :n barrels and bottles, preparedfor ex*
portation or immediate u se,
FOR SALE BY
Benjamin W- Morris,
The corrier of Dock end Pear firsts,
Where he lias provided fuitabic stores and
vaults, for the reception of
VV IN E S-, &c.
Which he proposes to (lore or diCpofe of on
commiflion
Captainsof vefTels and others fuppliedwith
any of thenboveLl£u6RS'bottlcd, and lea
stores in gene a I put up.
Ma ? 9 tu&f2m
Morris Academy.
THIS institution is now open for the recep
tion of Undents under the immediate care of
Mr. Caleb RulTeN, whole abilities as an in
ftmftor, and attachment to tire trofmefs have
long been known and approved. He has un
der him the best assistants in tire different '
branches —The scholars are taught the En
glish, French, Latin, and Greek languages,
Publ c-Speaking, Writing, Arfthmeti'c, Geo
graphy, Astronomy, and the various branch
es of the Mathematics. The healthy fixa
tion of this place js fneh as to recommend it
tffthofe, Wha-wi4h to have their children in
i 6 c ° untI > Bcaiding, wofhing, mending,
&c. tvtil be provided in good families, and
the morals of the scholars carefujly attended
to;
The price including tuition, firewood, See.
eekc-ufive of the French language) will not
xceed thirty pounds proclamation money per
annum) an addrtiort of t*hree dollars per quar
ter will be made to fnch scholars who are
tßught the French language. The Directors
at edetermined to pay such attention -to this
institution, as will render it refoeftable and
ufeful.
GABRIEL H. FORD, ")
TIMOTHY JOHNS, jun. C Direft's.
NATHAN FORD, S
Morriftown, May 15, 1
diw.—w2m.
The Ground Plan
OF THE
1 City and Suburbs
' OF
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM ACTUAL SURVEY.
IT is with pleasure that the publiiher has to
inform his fubferibers and the public iri gene
ral, that the plate is now under the hands of
the engraver, and in greater forwardnfs than
was at firft contemplared. At the fame time
he begs leave to remind them, that fubferip
tion papers aVe still open at most of the noted
book-stores in the city; and that he hopes
from the whole of them to be enabled to form
such a refpeftabje catalogue of name#, as will'
do a credit to the work, as well as affo'd a
reafonabie encouragement to <he undertake r
Thole who are delirous of further informa.
tion are requested to call on
Benjamin Dairies,
No. 68, Market itreet.
Apn'l 14. m&thtf
NANKEENS.
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
FOR SALE AT
No. 40, horth Fifth Street.
April 81. mw&ftf
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Hvafes or Public
Offices,
Two brick 3 story Houfesj
HAVING 6 rooms in each, with fireplaces
beside garrets, fnuate on the I'ouih wHlerlv fitle
of Dock ftteet, between Pear and
streets. Enquire nf
BENJAMIN IK MORRIS.
April 17. tuth&istf
Foreign Intelligence.
PARIS, April 4.
A general order has been iflued to f<
left 400 m:n in each quarter of this c;
pital, to serve alternately as patroles i
the environs of the Revolutionary Tribt
At a moment when the Revolutiofcar
Tribunal pronounced sentence of deat
on Lavergne, Commandant of Longw
a Woman exclaimed, We must have
King. The Tribunal is a Tribunal c
Blood. It would be better to die a thou
land deaths than to exist in" such a cour
try of barbarity and crimes ! She prove,
to be the wife of the Commandant, an.
was seized, tried, condemnsd, and execu
ted.
It is said, that in consequence of th
evidence given on the trial of Dan ton
the Committee of Public Safety, has or
deied the arrest of Deforgue, Minife
for Foreign Affairs.
LONDON, April t.
It was yesterday confidently reported;
but on what authority we have not disco
vered, that to fill up the sum of our mis
fortunes, America, Sweden, and Den
mark have united with the French, anc
declared war against this country.
Letters from Modena of the 25th ult,
state, that two Neapolitan vessels had late
ly been carried prizes into the port of Ge
noa by a French privateer, and that the
late disturbances which happened in th<
play-house of Genoa had been occasioned
by the democratic Patricians, who do eve
ry th "ng they can in bitter to abolish noLi
hty in that Republic.
The French have procured a number
of recruits from the banks of the river
Queich, Blies, and Saar—detachments of
these young Germans are daily sent off for
their armies in the interior parts of France,
and those which are stationed on the fron
tiers of Italy.
The countess of Rufdelftadt, the firft
peifon implicated in the eonfpiracy against
the life of the duke regent of Sweden, on
the day of her arreftation, delivered to
the duke regent a written confefilon of her
crime. She would long ago have received
judgment, if it had not been for her obfti
[ nacy in not discovering her accomplices.
The total number of French pi ifoners
in England, Scotland and Ireland, by the
last. returns, amounts to. no more than
5,029.
The French have set a price on the head
of General Paoli.
A putrid fever of the mod malignant
nature has maniffted itfelf in Anterior
Austria.
An epidemic distemper has broke out
at Belgrade : the inhabitants fly thence ;
and all the trade between Belgrade and
Semlin is at a stand. *
STATE PAPER.
Presented by the.Britilh Envoy at Copen
hagen to Court Bernftorf
" After the oral i eprefentation which
Ittiade to your Excellency refpeding my
situation in Copenhagen, and upon the
danger of a public insult, to which I saw
myfelf exposed, you will not be surprized
at a second complaint from me of the fame
kind, but infinitely more serious in its na
ture and tendency— a complaint which,
I flatter myfelf will not fhil to make the
molt sensible impreflion upon your Excel
lency I have, therefore! the honor tl
transmit the printed flieet of the 2 lit num.
b l r - ?■ l rn ? r ! nifh Speaator, a paper
which is filled with the most outiageous a
buse, and in which my person is so fignifi
cantly pointed out, that the author could
not have rendered his meaning more expli
cit by mentioning my name, so infiftupon
the most signal fatiffafton for the injury 1
have received, is what I owe to the court
I serve, \j myfdf, my colleagues, and the
Danish nation—l therefore request your
ExeeUcncy to take the most effudual nwa-gres for ascertaining the person of the an
. thor or printer of the said paper, and to
take eveiy necessary step for tarrying on a
criminal process against him, as I have no
doubt but the lasv of Denmark will attord
me a prompt and exemplary fatiffaftion.
(Signed) Hailes.
To thiS-ts added in the Danilh Gazette
that Count Bernftorf haying recommended
the immediate invert igalionof this aitair to
theDntch chancery, the publiiher was sum
moned before the council of state : and
th&t the curiosity of the public was at the
highest pitch to know the issue of these
proceedings, especially as the Briti(l) Mi
nister had been supported in his demand
of fatisfaftion, by the repfefentations of
the other foreign Ministers.
Young Count Wurmbrand, long fluf
fing from the army of the Netherlands,
has lately written from Liile to his friends
at Vienßa, where he is, with four other
Imperial officers. They have liberty to
walk about the town, and receive their
remittances of money without interrupti
on. They daily attend a two hours lec
ture upon the rights of Ntan, and the
causes of the.presentwwasr f with the Pa
rilian newspapers, &c. It is added that
none of the Aulirians arc forced into the
French service.
April 8.
Yesterday captain Cook arrived at
the admiralty office with dispatches
from Lord Hood. The contents of
these dispatches, we understand to be,
that his Lordship finding the French in
Baftia too ft'rong to be attacked, with any
profpedt of success, by the force at his
disposal, and being ill supported by the
Corficans, had re-embarked tiie troops.
The King of Prussia now finds, that
the fafety of his crown, and the rSprefen
tation of the dearest interests of his peo
ple do not depend on the conquest of
France -The Empress of Russia has also
notified to the court of Vienna, that as
long as the Porte with Sweden and Den
mark, (hall continue to excite her appre
hensions, (lie cannot give her promised aid
to the Confederacy!
The Flanders MAil which arrived this
morning, brings no news of any import
ance. Two mefTt ngers came over in the
fame Packet, but nothing material had
Occurred on the Frontier.
The emperor was expected to reach
Brnflels on Wednesday last. His Inaugu
ration as Duke of Brabant, takes place
in a few days, after which it is believed
he will visit the armies.
By letters from America we learn, that
fix fail of French (hips of the line and
five frigates, apparently the squadron that
Earl Howe chafed, are faftly arrived in
the Chefapeak. They had one million
four hundred thousand pounds sterling,
in specie, on board, which they have fafe
ly lodged in the Bank of Philadelphia,
for the purpose of buying provisions and
llores.
This wealth, thus sent to America,
not enly invigorates their agriculture and
manufactures, but it tends to make them
maritime. They will themselves be the
carriers of these cargoes to France ; and
thus does the present war, through the
madness of Great Britain, advance the
United States of America half a century
in arts, commerce and wealth.
[It does one's heart good to find foreign
nations fcoMing about the prosperity of
America—and it is no mean aigument in
favor of peace and the measures of our
government.]
April 13.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer, in
his new bill refpedting the Crown lands,
purposes, among other regulations, to
grant immediate leases of 90 years to all
holderj qf Crown leases, which is confi
dired as a liberal boon to them, the ut
ir oft extent of all former leases being no
more than 40. According to the mod
moderate calculation, the crown lands, if
brought to market, and funded, would
produce an annual income of 400,000!.
The late indecision of the King of Prus
sia has produced a number of contradic
tory reports; but in contradi£lion to state.
ments in the foreign Gazettes we are as
sured that the zealous co-operation of
his Pruflian Majesty with an army of
80,000 men, is effectually secured to the
general cause.
The Dutch troops under the command
of the Hereditary Prince of Orange,
have approached Phillippevill.- so very
cltifely, that the garrison of that place
iias only paflage left free to a place where
its cavalry used to water the horses. The
French are now reduced to catch the rain
water in cisterns for that purpole.
On the 26th ult. at day-bveak, the
Republicans attempted to throw a consi
derable convoy into that besieged fortrels.
The Dutch attacked the convoy and the
escort with such vigour, that both fell in
to their hands. The French escort coh
fifted of 200 men, of whom 13 were kil
led, and three others wounded.
Yesterday we received the Paris papers
up to the sth instant. They contain no
thing of much importance, except the
perfect acquiescence of the populace in
the arrest and trial of Danton. The
powsr exercised by the Committees of
Public and General Safety is at present so
defpotie, and so formidable, that no man,
in or out of the Convention, dares to
hint a doubt of the propriety of whate
ver they choose to order.
Ihe Prince of Saxe Cobourgj as Ma
jor Maitland dated in the House of Com
mons ob Thursday, is to be superseded.
The Emperor is to take the command of
the Combined Armies in person, and to
be affilted by a Military Council, at the
head of which is General Mack. Such
is the progress of a war against the people
who, twelve months ago, were represent
ed as incapable of finding troops, arms,
ammunition, or provisions! All the great
Generals hitherto employed to subdue
them, the King of Prussia, the Duke of
Brunfwick, General Wurmfer, the Prince
of Saxe Cobourg, have either retired or
been dismissed. The Emperor, of Ger
many, a* if contending for his last (lake,
is brought from his amusements at Vien
na, to assume in appearance the command
of the army, that men of abilities, not
men of rank, may be enabled to direst
its operation.
The duke of York's plan for raising a
corps of waggoners for the army on the
Continent is like to take immediate ef
fect. Of the 600 men that it is to consist
of, 240 are already raised, 120 of whom
embarked at Gravefend the week before .
last for Oftend, and 120 more on Monday
last. Government find them in clwatlis,
boots, &c. they are to have is. 6d. per
day subsistence, with liberty of returning
to England at the expiration of one year.
Yesterday morning advice was received
at the admiralty office, that four French
privateers, which have been cruizing in
the chops of the channel for some time,
watching the motions of our ships, were
captured by his majesty's cruizers and sent
into Scilly.
A dreadful instrument of deftruftion,
contrived to throw ten bombs in a minute,
has been lately invented by a foreigner ;
a model of which has been (hewn and
proved before the prince of Wales and se
veral other persons of diftinftion. A
public fubfeription, patronized by his roy
al highness and the duke of York, is be
gun, for conftrudting one upon a scale
fufficient to throw bombs of very large
dimensions.
Accounts from Madrid, of the 17th
of February, state, that on the sth of
that month an important engagement had
taken place between the allied troops and
the French, in the vicinity of Andaie, in
Biscay. The Spanish general, Caro, hav
ing attacked the French, in order to dis
lodge them ftom an important battery they
had erected not far from Fontarabia, the
latter refitted with such vigor that the
Spaniards were forced to retreat, with the
loss of seven hundred killed, wounded and
prisoners.
The brother of Cardinal, late Abbe
Maury, has lately been put to death at
Paris by the guillotine.
April 12,
There is a rumor here, that the Em
peror of Morocco, gained over by French
money, means to attack the Spanish set
tlements on the coast of Africa. This
will be a very troublesome diversion, al
though at this moment the marine of
Spain is in good condition, and able to
repress the piracies of the Moors.
HOUSE OF COMMONS.
April 9.
The House having refalved itfelf into a
committee of ways and means, and the
accounts of the surplus of the consolidated
fund for the last quarter up to April 5,
1794, being referred to,
Mr. Pitt said, it was with the highest
fatisfaftion that he infortned the commit
tee, that the surplus submitted to their
consideration amounted to something about
231,0001. the whole quarter yielded
2 7b,0001. more than the last quarter of
the preceding year, ending the sth of A
pril, 1793, the produce of all the perma
nent taxes for the kft year ending the sth
of Apiil 1794> he said waS only about
ioo.ood. kfs than the income of 1793,
the riioft productive year the finances ot
the country ever experienced. This he
represented atf a very flourifhing account,
when it is considered that the firft yeai ot
a v«fr is always mo(t deficient, and that
commercial failures, arising from accident
al causes, dillinil from the war, had ren
dered this year particularly distressing.
He then moved, " That the ftirplus of
the consolidated fund, amounting to
232,0001. and ending on the sth of April
1794, be applied to the services of the
pfefent year"—which was agreed to, and
the refolations ordered to be reported on
Friday. •
Adjourned.
DANTON,
The influence of this distinguished cha
ra&er, now totally destroyed, has been
on the decline for some time. The me
morable fitting of the Jacobins on the 3d
of December afforded the firft public
proof of this decaying popularity.
Having made a declaration, that the
Constitution ought to sleep while the peo
ple were preparing to overwhelm their
enemies, Doupe de L'Oife reprobating
this doctrine, Danton was reduced to the
necelTity of entering into a defence cf his
condu&, and of confeffing, amidst the
murmurs of the Jacobins, that recent
events might have occasioned good Patri
ots to fufpeft him.
It was at tljat period, and immediately
after Danton had conclyded his defence,
that Roberfpiere commenced a review of
the causes that had produced such suspi
cion.—The alledged emigration of Dan
ton into Switzerland, his feigned illness,
his inordinate ambition, which seemed to
aim at the regency or diftatorfhip, his
former intimacy with Dumourier, his
want of activity in oppofingthe Brifiotine
part —all these circumllances were alluded
to. Robespierre, however, concluded
his speech, by declaring that Danton had
been calumniated.
Notwithftauding this event, no cordial
friendfhip subsisted between Roberfpierre
and Danton, for they were rivals.
To oppfe the increasing power of the
former in the Jacpbin Club, and in the
committee of public fafety, the latter at- 1
tached himfelf to the Cordeliers, whom,
by secret means, he endeavoured to £xalt
above the Jacobins.
It is fufpefted that Hebert acted under I
his direction, that he was the concealed
author of that conspiracy, which involved
the actors in ruin.
If this suspicion be well founded, it
will scarcely be deemed an extraordinary
Gircumftance, that the overthrow of the
Cordeliers foonld produce the deftru&ion
of the power of of Danton.
Cammille Defmoulins has long been
fufpefted, and so long ago as the month
of December, he was denounced, as
having been the intimate friend of Mira
beau, the Lameths and Cuftine.
Lacroix's attachment to stock-jobbing,
and some facts which were disclosed in
the evidence against the Hcbertifts, and
which tended to criminate Phillippeaux,
have produced the arrest of these two de
puties.
Danton is a mart of blunt manners, and
of a boisterous eloquence.—" His form,"
according to Dr. Moore, " is coarse and
uncommonly robust—his manner fierce
and rude—he speaks with the voice of a
Stentor, declaims on the blefiings of free
dom with the arrogance of a tyrant, and
invites to union and friendfhip'with the
frown of an enemy."
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Sitting of March 29.
The committee of legislation presented
a revised plan of the law against monopo
lizers, which was agreed. The principal
articles are—
Wholesale dealers and manufa&urcrs
(hall be bound to declare, within the de
cade following the publication of the pre
sent law, at their municipality or their lec
tion :—,
1. The quantity, quality, and nature
of the merchandize they poflefs through
out the extent of the commune of their
residence.
2. The quantity, quality, and nature
of those which belong to them in every
part of the Republic ; and they (hall point
out the magazines or store-houses where
they are placed.
All persons are considered as wholesale
dealers who buy up merchandise, or anv
commodities, and keep them in magi. '
zincs.
They (hall be bound to giv§ in the flat*
Of their magazines every month.
They fliall have written over the out
side door of their dwelling-house, as well
as over that of their store-house, a table
of the names and the nature of the mer
chandise or goods in which they deal.
And manufacturers shall, in like manner,
indicate the nature of their fabrics.
They shall be bound, when required,
to prove, by the teflimony of their muni
cipality, the sale or the employ of their
raw materials in their mannfa&ories.
The retail dealers shall not be fubjeft
to the above declarations and inferiptions,
except upon any magazines they may pos
sess over and above what is contained in
their fhopsor where they fell
• in retail.
The penalties to those who neglect to
make the declarations prescribed, are con
fifcation of their merchandise, and two
years imprisonment.
Every wliolefale dealer refufing to fell
in wholesale, and retailer refufing to fell
in retail, the goods in his pofleflion, shall
have their goods confiscated.
Those who fell their goods at a price
above the maximum, fliall be punished, /or
the firft time, by a forfeit of ten times the
value of the goods. For the second fault,
all the goods in his pofleflion of the fame
nature with that he fold above the raaxi
, mum, shall be confiTcated, and himfelf
j imprisoned for two years; and the inform
er fliall have the entire profit of theconfif
cation.
They who shall be conn&ed of letting
their commodities perish voluntarily, and
through malevolence, shall be punished
with death.
OSTEND, April 8.
" Our last intelligence from the army
states, that the day before yefterdav the
Carmagnols in pretty strong force, attaek
ed our posts of Werwick, but were driven
back with great daughter.
The Ghent Gazette of yesterday re
lates, that the army of Royaliits under
the orders of MefTrs. Roche Jaquelin,
Charette, and d'Autichamp is at present
composed of 80,000 men, all well armed
—That, according to letters from la
Flech, Anges, and Nantes, this army is
at the gates of tbt last tncntiottecHown—
that M. de Precy has made himfelf matter
of Limoges, and advances with forced
marches to effedt a junction with the above A
Generals." *
DOVER, April 10.
Arrived the Union Packet, Captain
Sutton, with the mail and meflengers,
MefTrs. Wiffen and Shaw, from Oftend:
the messengers left the army but two days
ago, when every thing was perfe&ly quiet,
and nothing material had happened.
A Swiss gentleman who came over in
the Packet, and who pasTed through
Frankfort, Coblentz, and Cologne, about
ten days ago, states, that the Pruflia ar
my is daily augmenting; that fix thousand
frefh troops marched into Coblentz the
day he pasTed that place; that eight thou
sand were expected on the following day,
and that all the military preparations Teem
ed to go on with vigor.
UNITED STATES.
HALIFAX, (N. Caro.) May 28. -
On Friday night last, owing to the ve
ry unpardonable imprudence of the gao
ler, the malefactors confined in the pna.n
of this town, effe&ed a general goal de
livery.—We have greatly to lament, that
Peter MasTer, alia' Peleg Maffey, «1.0
was committed for having pasTed counter
feit Bank Notes, was among the num-
A correTpondent obTerves, that the Se
nate could not have given a more une
quivocal proof of their sincere deuie to
preserve to the United States the precious
blessing of peace, than in the late ap
pointment of Mr. Jay, as Envoy Extra
ordinaly to the Britilh Court. And it
should he mentioned among the heroic
ads of the President's life, that regani
lefs of the insidious politics of his native
state, he did on this momentous occation,
with a degree of firmnefs worthy the
Chief Magistrate of the United States,
select a man in all respects well qualuie
for the important trull.
The President is a military man, and
cannot be afraid of war—an honcftand therefore appreciates the advantage
of peace.
In the person of Mr. Jay is concentred
the qualities which an Envoy Extraor
dinary, at this awful crisis of our affairs,
/hould poHcfs. He is indisputably a
great civilian, an able negociator, perfua
iive, though firws ill his manners, irreiifti
ble iu his eloquence, and finifhed in his
personal accomplifhrhents. Add to this
his place of residence, a circumftanfce on
common occaflons not worth mentioning,
but id the present inllance, and in the
present state of American politics, even
this is entitled to peculiar attention. Mr.
Jay is an inhabitant of New-Yo.k, a state
Jincerely .Jcjirous of preserving peace ; her
internal lecurity as well as commercial
prdfperity are at (take—(he bled at every
pore from 1775 to 1753, and will always
have more lofc and leis to gain, by war,
than any other member of the union.—
Last to be mentioned, is the weight
which his judicial character may be sup
posed to give to all his official demands.
Will it be considered in the British cabi
net a trivial business which calls the
Chief-Juftice of the United States to that
Court ? Will he appear there as a solitary
American citizen making demands which
our enemies may accede to or refufe at
pleasure, as they have done heretofore ?
Or will he be viewed as the envoy of an
injured nation, clothed with the judicial
as well as miniftenal authorities of his
country? Let good citizens unite in
their prayers that the Divine Blelfing may
attend his mission, and that war, with all
its concomitant evils, may once more be
baniflied from our coasts.
BALTIMORE, June 3
The Honorable G. Duvall, Efquirej
is ele&ed a Representative of this State,
hi the Congress of the United States, in
the room of the Honorable J. F. Mercer,
Esquire, reiigned.
NEW-YORK, June 3.
France is exerting herfelf to make effec
tual reliftance againit her enemies. And
while her armies stand,' as a firm bulwark
against all attacks, the members of the
Convention, are mowing off each others
heads, with a ipirit of jeafoufy and ven
geance,that has no parrallel in the liiitory
of faction itfelf. Danton, who for a
long time, almost governed the Conven
tion wrtk a nod, is acccufcd, with La
croix, and a large number of other mem
bers, who, a few weeks ago, were imma
culate patriots; they are now denounced
as traitors, arretted, brought before the
Revolutionary and private let
ters fay, are already guillotined. Robe
ipierre now rules the Convention, having
by the removal of Danton, got rid of
his competitors; and if we may indulge
conjectures, Robespierre, will foos be
difiator in fad and name, or he will fink
into his grave beneath the stroke of some
jealous rival.
Tho conspiracy of Hebert is suppres
sed, but has filled every man with jealou
fv and diiiruft. S'he executive council is
abohlhed, and a new one is ordained to
confifi of twelve commiflioners. Such
"as the Hate of affairs, the beginning of
April.
NEW-BRUNSWICK, June 3. .
The late dreadful storm, by accounts fron
'anous parts ot the country, has made great
lepredation ; numerous mill-dams have been
wept away by the torrent, many bridges
much damaged, and some entirely gone off.
i o attempt a difcription would be useless.
I lie river at this city was much higher than
it was ever known before by any fall of
g ' ler than fome ' of th « Pillars
ot the bridge, great quantities of timber,
rails, and a number of cattle were seen float
ing down with the ltream. A Mr. Dixon
the^nn,r tOI I v became a viaim to
the flood, and has left a numerous and help
less family to bewail his untimely death—
also a negro man at Boundbrook was drown
ftream Ptmg '° ' wim * narrow
edTo h mee e t g l? a T re ° f this state arf '"mmon
ea to meet at 1 renton on the 7 th inft.
ALBANY, May
week, patted thro' this citv m l,;.
*ay to New-York, Samuel Mattocks Efa
jn his charge iT'lpl
fate acceded j when
3s» ?* "r stefifs
withiil the boundaries of the state of Ver
mont.
PHILADELPHIA;
JUNE 6.
In tlie Brig Fame, Capt. Hunt in 8
days from Charleften, came 20 Indian
Chiefs belonging to the Cherokee nation.
1 hey are a re r peftablc deputation from
the Cherokee Nation so Congress—their
bufiriefs is to form a treaty of peace and
amity wfth the United States.
Says a Correspondent, ;
The manner qf treating Societies formed •
for the end of censuring and checking the
Government, is very different ,in different
countries. In England the members are hunt
ed down by prosecutions. In America, pub
lic opinion is.a. mjjjler and equally effeaual
antidote against their poison. A very few
adventurers, of slippery principles, are known
to take the lead in their meetings.—The
public knot's these leaders and rates them at
their current value—that is to fay, at the
rate of known rfothirtg.—But
i.ne greater number of the members are well
disposed btit nulled citizens, i iiey are let
alone, their violent*, and delusion ire re
gretted, bu,t nobody wlfhfcs to do them any
barm. The effect of this mild forbearance
already appars. The Society and their wild
resolutions are almcft forgotten. Like othe
fanatics they droop for lack of persecution
A correspondent observes, that a long la
bored attempt to vindicate the conduit of a
lately appointed officer, and to reconcile his
nconfiftency and that of his party which ap
>eared in this paper of Wednesday, niuf
ail in its object.
His apologist admits that the blending tht
Executive And the Legif.ativL■ departments is
as reprehensible as that of the Executi-ve and
Judicial, but juftifies the opposition of Mr.
M. to the appointment of Mr. J. on this
ground, that Mr. J. did not after his appoint
ment reGgn his office of Chief Justice, where
as Mr. M. resigned his feat in the Senate.
But the fallacy of this pretended diftincHon
is obvious.
How could Mr. J. resign before his ap
pointment r Mr. M. when he opposed the
appointment, did not certainly know what
Mr. J. would do after it. Mr. J. was Chief
Juflice when he was nominated; Mr. M.
was a Senator; the cases therefore are so
far parallel; what each would do, after the
appointment was uncertain and depended al
together on the voluntary aifl of the party.
As far as there was any thing wrong in the
appointment of the one, it was equally so
with regard to the other. Mr. M. opposed
the appointment ot Mr. J. bccaufe he was
Chief JuJiice when nominated ; and Mr. M.
acquiesced in his own nomination being Sena
tor ; on the principle admitted by the apolo
gist where is the difference; both were at
liberty, after the appointment to resign or
not. Mr. J. has not resigned; his appoint
ment was for a short period and the func
tions he was to execute would only occasion
an absence from one Court, the Supreme
Court in Au'juft: the law does not more re
quire the attendance of the Chief Justice
than of the AlTociate Judges, and it is well
known that at every session of the Supreme
Court, one or other of the AlTociate Judges
is absent. Where then is the mighty oflence
in doing that which is done twice a year by
some other of the Judges,without complaint i
Mr. M. it is true, resigned his feat in the
Senate ; but his appointment being perma
nent, his resignation was of course, and there
is no merit on his part, for had he failed tc
resign, the Legislature of Virginia could have
tonlidered the acceptance of the Embassy
as a virtual resignation and appointed a fuc
ceffor.
The apoligft has not attempted to fhevs
the confijiency of reprobating an Embassy tc
France, on the ground that no Minister oughl
to be sent to that country, when anothei
perl'on was appointed, and now accepting
that very office ; this was rather two difficul
to get over : Silence was therefore judicious
No censure is aimed at the Executive so:
nominating Mr. M.—There may have beei
good reasons in policy for it: but it is pro
per that the public ftiould be acquainted wit)
fncli, and that the condutt of the faction oi
this occasion should be iontrafied with theii
conduct on a recent one. It is so glaring ant
prominent that it would have been unpatri
otic not to have brought it forward to put
lie notice and animadverlion.
By this Day's Mail.
BOSTON.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTAT IVES.
Thursday, May 29.
The committee appointed for the purpose
of counting and ascertaining the votes of the
people of this Commonwealth, for Go
vernor, and Lieutenant-Governor, reported,
That
His Honor SAMUEL ADAMS, Esq.
Was elected Governor of this Common
wealth for the year ensuing, by a large ma
jority of furirages—He was in'the pretence
of the two houses immediately declared elect
ed, and was qualified agreeably to the pre
scriptions of the .Conltitution —That no
choice had been made by the People of
Lieutenant-Governor, and that the sour.per
sons having the highest number of votes werej
His Honor SAMUEL ADAMS,
Hon. MOSES GILL,
NATHANIEL GOKHAM, and
ELBRIDGE GERRY, Efq'rs. .
Whereupon the House proceeded to the
election of two of the Candidates to be ferit
up to the Hon. Senate ; and the
Hon. MOSES GILL, and
NATHANIEL GORHAM, Efq'rs,
Were elected and sent up.
Tht Senate, by mellage, informed the
House, that by an unanimous vote, they had
chosen
The Hon. MQSES GILL, Esq.
Lieutenant-Governor of this Commonwealth,
for the year enfuirtg. (His Honor has ac
cepted the trust, and will be qualified before
the two Houses, this day; at 12 o'clock.)
Friday, May 30.
The two houles met in convention in the
Representatives chamber, for the purpose of
choosing nine Councilors to advise the Go
vernor in the Executive part of government
when the committee railed for the purpose
hav.ng counted the votes, reported,the whole
to be 140 —71 making a choice, that
The hon. Azor Orne, Esq. had 136
Hon. Eleazer Brooks, Esq. 140
Hon. Thomas Durfee, Esq. 136
Hon. Oliver Wendell, Esq. 137
Hon. William Shepard,' Esq. 138
Hon. Samuel Baker, Esq. 134
Hon. Nathaniel Wells, Esq. rjz
Hon. Stephen Metcalf, Esq. 127
Hon. Tomfon J. Skinner, Esq. 73
And that they were chofon. The two Houses
then separated.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
PARIS, April 3.
We learn from Marseilles that the patri- 1
ots there are to be again armed, provided
they are members of any one of the clubs.
Saliceti, in a letter from Maifeilles,
dated the 19th inft. advises, " tjhat Baftia
(till holds out, the garrison being' deter
mined to defend themselves till the last ex
tremity. The ferocious conduit of the
Englifli at St. Florent had so exasperated
the citizens of Baftia, that even the mo
derates seemed to be determined rather to
perish than fuffer these new cannibals to
plunder their houses, ravish their wives
and daughters, and cut the throats of the
aged and infirm. In a fortic the garrison
of Baftia had driven the Paolifts from the
village aL Carhnp ; Jellied a great number
of the enemy, and burned the village.
The galley, la Moselle had reached Ballia
with troops, 11,000 sacks of meal, af
fignates, and succors of every description,
after an escape from eight or nine English
(hips by which (he had been chafed. The
(hip of the line le Duquefne, and the
frigate la Fauvette, had arrived at Toulon
with two Spani(h prizes: at the latter
place the armament was going on with the
utmost a&ivity,"
The cut-thtoat Jourdan has been de
nounced in the Cordeliers, for several a<Ss
of despotism and tyranny in his llation
of Colonel of the National Gendarmerie
of Avignon.
The military committe of Lyons is an
nulled ? and JFauche, the national repre
sentative Rationed there, is recalled. He
is to be fuccecded by Reverchen.
LONDON, April j—l3.
Our papers from Paris, received yes
terday down to the 29th ult. are so far
important, that they prove the preponder
ating influence of Robespierre and the
committees of public fatety and welfare,
who now hold the fnpreme and uncontefted
authority in France. A better proof can
not be given of their uncontrouled power,
thai? their Having so early disbanded the
whole revolutionary army, which was rais
ed under the influence of the clubs in Pa
ris, and was subservient to their will. As
this army had shewn some symptoms of
disapprobation to the late executions, and
had refufed to congratulate the Conventi
on on the discovery of the late conspiracy,
the firft ast of Robespierre's power has
A. B.
. adl ol -
jeen to diftc.nd it.
The time, fatal to Danton, is at length
arrived ; He falls with the Cordeliers, of
whom, originally, he was the firft sup
port ; and no doubt but that if Marat,
who was his agent, and directed his con
vulsive motions, were alive at this moment,
he would partake in the disgrace of his
friend. Perhaps, ih the day when Dan
ton (hall ad his lait part upon the fcaffold,
Marat will be dragged from the Pantheon,
to be trailed in the dirt, which ought to
have been his fate long iince.
It is not the least remarkahle circum-
that Barrftre fliould pronounce
the New Government to be determined to
support Reiigion and Virtue ! ! !
Momoro, who was laately guillotined
at Paris witb the Hebertilts, was lately
in London, and fcoutcd out of all the fo
cities as the vaunting butcher of the Prin
cess Lambelle He was the villain who
treated her so batbaroufiy in the lirft in
ftante, and the savage Rotondo, who has
since been hanged, finifhed the dreadful
carnage—a relation of the particulars
would (hock even brutality.
Lady Wallace is to be called in future
the Political Prophetess. The predic
tions in her pamphlets are now generally
verified ; arid the public, from what has
palled, may expert much gratification in
her speculations and admonitions on the
present state of English politics, which
have been read and aflented to in the fii ft
political circles.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
CLEARED.
Ship John, Whitwell, Amsterdam
Bacchus, George, . Hamburgh
Maria & Eliza, Clements, Boftoti
Brig Charlotte, Walfli, St. Thomas
Schr. Delight, Wallington, p. Nicola Mole
Sloop Jefferfon, Stewart, St. Marcs
Captain Davis who arrived here yesterday
in ii days from St. John's liland informs,
that a Britifli fleet of 160 fail of merchant
men, foiled from Tortola on the 12th of
May, bound to. England, convoyed by two
ships of the line. In this fleet were included
all the American veflels carried into and
condemned in the different Islands.
appointment's.
The President of the United States,
by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, has appointed the following per-,
sons Commanders of the frigates, to be
built pursuant to an ast of Congreis, viz.
JOHN BARRY,
SAMUEL NICHOLSON,
SILAS TALBOT,
JOSHUA BARNEY.
RICHARD DALE,
THOMAS TRUXTON.
NEW THEATRE.
Mr. Darlet s Night.
THIS EVENING,
June 6.
Will be presented,
A COMEDY, called
Every One has his Fault.
Lord Norland, Mr. Whitlock
Sir Robert Ramble, Mr. Chalmers
Mr. Solus, Mr. Morris
Mr. Harmony, Mr. Bates
Captain Irwin, Mr. Fennell
Mr. Placid, Mr. Moreton
Hammond, Mr. Green
Porter, Mr. Warrell
Edward, (firfttime) Master Warrell
Lady Eleanor Irwin, Mrs. Whitlock
Mrs. Placid, Mrs. Shaw
Miss Spinster, Mrs. Bates
Miss Wooburn, Mrs. Morris
End of the third a<fk a humourous vocal Pa
rody, "on Shakespeare's Seven Ages—will
be sung by Mr. Bates.
End of the Play, a characfteriftic Pantomi
mical Dance, ailed
The Sailor's Landlady ;
Or, JACK IN DISTRESS.
To conclude with a double hornpipe by Mr.
Francis and Mrs. De Marque.
To which will be added,
For the firft time at this Theatre, a COMIC
OPERA, called
No Song no Supper.
Frederick, Mr. Marshall
G r°P» Mr. Darley
Endless, Mr. Harwood
Robin, JVI r . Bates
William, (with the ballad of Black
Eyed Susan ) Mr. J. Darley
Sailors, Meflrs. Warrell, BlilTet, Lee,
Bason, De Moulin, &c
Dorothy, Mrs. Shaw
Louisa, l ,T, fsßroadhurft
Margaretta, Mrs. Oldmixon
Nell y> Miss Willems
Tickets to be had of Mr. Darley, No. 68,
north Eighth street.
At the usual places, and of Mr. Franklin
at the Theatre, where places may be taken.
On Monday next, an Historical Play, cal
led The BATTLE OF HEXHAM : Or
DAYS OF OLD, with The DEtJCE IS
IN HIM, for the benefit of Mrs. MORRrS
Mrs. WHITLOCK's Night will be on
Wednesday next.
Places in the Boxes to be taken at the Box-
Office of the Theatre, at any hour from nine
mthe morning till three o'clock in theafur
f noon, on the day of performance. Tickets
to be had at the office near the Theatre, a *
the corner of Sixth-ftreet,and at Carr & Co's
Musical Repository, No. m, M^kst-ftreet
E.A New NovcL
To the LAk)I£S of Fmladelphia.
This Day is PuWJhed ly
MA'OiEW CAREY,
ii£, Market ftrcst,
Pticr, bound, ot a dollar, lewed
in marble paper, Halt * dollar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
IN TWO VOIt(MES.
By Mrs. ROWSON, of the New Theatre,
Phladelpina,- Author of Victoria, the In
quisitor, the Fille de Chanib> e, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Rcuieivtrs have given
the following char after.
IT may be a ZTale of f° r ' s no '
unnatural, and it is a .tflle of real diltrefs.—
Charlotte, by the artificc of a teachei, recom
mended to a school, from hnmanity rather
ihan a conviction of her integrity, or the re
gularity of her former condu&, is enticed
from her governed, and accompanies a yoang
officer to America.—The marriage ceremo
ny, if not forgotten, is postponed, and Char
lotte dies a martyr to the inconstancy of the
over, and treachery ot his friend —The.situ
fions are artless and affecting—*the defcrip
ations nattfral and pathetic ; we fliould fe
or Charlotte if such a perfop ever exifled,
who for one error scarcely, perhaps, deserved
Co severe a pupifliinent. If it is a ft&ion,
poetic jpftice is not, we think, properly dif
fributed
Said Carey hys jtifl publ\Jl;ed,
A 1 iheet map of Kentucky
compiled by ElHiu Barker, price one dollar
and two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Germany, Spaio,ltalv,the United Proyinces,
the Netherlaadj, and the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars.
Map of New JerTey—-Half a dollar.
Mips of Vermont, Qonneftic,ut, Delaware,
Georgia Pricg three eighths of a dollar
each.
April 29. tutli&sgw
Four Dollars Reward.
A NEGRO MAN, nam,ed L'Efperance, a
bout 25 years of age, of the Congo nation, 5
feet 6 inches high ; ipeaks very little I£nglifh
ran away from his maUerthe 27th inft&nt —
He fto|p and carried away one new
green broad cloth coat, and articles of
house fHrnitu»e. Whoever shall take up and
secure the above negro in any goal, so that
he may be brought to Justice (hall receive the
above reward. the Prmter.
May 30 mw&f^t
JUST PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOBSON,
iteifeUer, at the Stone House in SecondJtreet)
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPAEDIA,
OR A
Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, aud Mifcei
laneous Literature,
ON a plan entirely new ; by which the dif
ferent sciences aud arts ate digested into the
form of ditlinft t'catiles or systems. This
volume the articles, medals, medi
cine, metallurgy'; metaphysics, methodists,
Mexico, microlcope, midwifry, and a great
variety ot biographical and miscellaneous ar
ticles, illustrated with nineteen copperplates.
(O" The rabies of logarithms, &c. which
were deficient in the tenth volume, are sub
joined to this.
Eleven volumes of this work are now po)>-
lilhed ,and the Xllth is in some forwardnefs.
On the firftof September, 1792, the price
«f fubfeription was incriafed TEN dollars on
all setts not taken before that time. The fub
feription isftill open on these terras, and it
any copies remain by the ijrft of July next, the
price will be railed TEN dollars more, 011
any copies which may be fubferibed for after
' that period,
*„* As many of the fubferibers have taken
only two, three or four, &c. volumes, they are
earnestly requested to take up and pay for the
remaining volumes, as it becomes difficult to
oomplete the setts, and the publilher does not
hold himfelfbouud to make up any setts after
the firft dayof July next.
A P ril 22. m&th6w .
JUST PUBLISHED,
MATHEW CAREY,
118, MarketJlreet,
Price 18 cents,
the
Catechism of Man ;
Pointing out from found principles, and ac
know [edged facts the Rights and Duties of
every Rational Being.
Am I therefore become your enemy because I
tell you the truth i Gal. iv. 16
Now all these things happened unto them for
examples, and they are written for our
admonition, upon whom the ends of the
tarth are come. i Cor. xii.
May 10 tuth&ssw
Advertisement.
THE relations ot Mr Thomas Curtis,for
merly of Ellicott's Upper Mills, and lately of
the City of Walhington, deceafrd, are defir.
Ed to apply and have his affairs lettled.
City of Walhington, April S 2, 1764.
M ' * m&th4vr
'
- - . \ .
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, deducing 15 per Gent. from,
the Prizes—this Lottery conjijls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
14,539 Prizes and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize i
THfc Directors of the Society for establishing
Ufeful Manufa&uresS having resolved to
ere& LOTTERIES for raising One Hundred
Thousand Dollar s, agreeably to ap Ast of
*the Legislature oi the State of New-Jersey, have
appointed the following persons to luperintend
and djre£l the drawing ot the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rufus Kmg, Herman Le Roy, James
Watson, Richard Harrifon, Abijah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city ot New-York—
Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew Bayard, ot the city of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, £fq.
Elias Boudinot, General EI as Dayton, James
Parker, John Bayard, Do&or Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton, Joshua M. Wallace, Joseph
Bloomfield, and Elifha Boudinot, of New-Jer
:f ey, who offer the following Scheme of a Lot
tery, and pledge themselves to the public, that
they will take every afTurance and precaution in
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from time to time, as received, iuto
the Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for the purpofeof paying Priz s, which
shall be immediately discharged by a check
npon one of the Banks.
SCHEME:
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 20,000
1 10,000 10,000
2 5,0q0 10,000
5 2, 00p 10,000
10 1,000 10,000
20 500 10,000
ico 100 io,obo
300 50 is>° 00
1000 20 20,000 !
2000 15 30,000 |
fSOQ 12 36,000 i
100 10 81,000
14,539 Prizes. 262,000
23,461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Last drawn number, 2,000
38,000 Tickets a( 7 Dollars each is 266,000
t : ii£-dra\ving will commence, under the in
fpe&ionof a Committee of the Superintendants,
as soon as the Tickets are fold,ot which timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendants have appointed John N.
Cumming, of Newark, Jacob R.
ol New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample fecuiity for discharging the
trull reposed in them.
In order to secure the pun£tual payment
of the Prizes, the Superintendantsof the Lottery
have dire&ed that the Managers lhall each enter
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four fufficient
fccuritiis, to perform their inftru6tions» the fub
llance of which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
lhall receivethe sum of Three HurttlrrtH>oH«rßj
be (hall place the fame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedii.of the Governor of the Society, and such
of the Superintendants as live in the city where
the monies are placed, to remain there nntil the
Lottery is drawn, for the paymntof the Prizes.
11. The Managers to take fufficient lecurity
for any Tickets they may trufl, otherwise to be
refponnble for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ftrafts of which shall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle,
men, information will be given where tickets
may be had.
February 24. , u&ftf>
Diflri6tof Pennsylvania
_ TQW IT;
(L~S.) BE il: remembered, that on the
twenty fourth day of March, in
'he eighteenth year of the independence of the
Uinted States of America, Ebenezer H aza r d
of the said diftrift, hasdepofited in this office,
the title of a book,the right whereof heclaims
as author, in the words following / to wit :
" Historical Collections ; consisting of state
papers, and other authentic documents; in
tended as materials for an history of the U
mted States of America.
| By EBENEZER. HAZARD, A.M.
Member ot the American Philosophical So
c'e*y ' held at Philadelphia, for promoting
ufeful knowledge; Fellow of the American
academy of Arts and Sciences; and corref
pondent member of the Massachusetts Hillo
rical Society.
VOLUME 11.
Ingemum, Pietas, Artes, ac bellica virtui,
Hue profugae venient, et Regna illuftria
condent,
Et Domina hie Virtus erit, et Fortuna mi
niftra,''
t J n lt c ° nf ° rmit y '<> ast of the Congress of
the United-States, entitled " An ast for the
encouragement of learning, by securing the
copies of maps, charts and books, to the au
■he I proprietors of such copies, during
ine times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Dijlria. of Pennsylvania.
ew4\v
SHOES.'
SHn?T Nt j ty of .^ out well made Men '» •
SHOES, adapted for the Southern market,for 1
sale at 1 I
No. 36, North Third Jlreet. '
May 6
The Public are cautioned to
' beware of counterfeited Fine Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
" Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
f Jeveral of which have appeared in circulation
e within a few days pajl; they are a good ge
, neral imitation of the genuine Bills, Cut may
j be dylmguijhed by the following
MARKS.
\ Five Dollar Jiills of the Bank erf the
a United States.
f ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
c for their Alphabetical Mark.
1 The Texture of the Paper is thiElcer and
whiter and it takes the ink. more freely than
s the genuine paper,
, & The O. in the word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a lineextended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M. would extend con.
• fiderably above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the lettwrsare narrow
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
The i and yi<ithe word promise are not
parallel, the much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the lliokes
of alt the Letters are stronger and the devii e
in themargin particularly ismuch coarser and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
ot the counterfeits hear dale in 1791 Where
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and 110 five dollar bills were iifued in
lhat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. lor their alphabetical mark.
They are printed On a paper nearly similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described ; the engraving is bettei exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, are in number thir
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as defer ibed 2-
bove, the 0 being less than the I*, and others
following.
1 There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not' come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and the_y go
ing below them.
The iignature J, Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamb-black and
oil, and differs from other inks used in
printing the bills and the cashier's lignature.
It is supposed these forgeries were commuted
in fomeof the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come from
thence, and two persons have been appiehcnd
ed in Virginia,on suspicion of being the author
of them.
Therewardof ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will he paid to any Person or Persons who lhall
discover and prosecute to conviction the feveial
offenders of the following descriptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufactured
the paper on which the Bills aie primed.
The person or persons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
livery person who has acted as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794
A P"I. 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the United States have appeared
tn circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
ter i),
■ from the genu
ine by thtt following MARKS :
The paper of the counterfeits is of a more
tender texture and gloffey f ur tace than the
genuine, and there is 110 water mark in them.
tr f n Uer „ C ' thc word Cashier, in the
true bills ,sftrongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
stroke, evidently in an unfinifhed Hate. The
anTrh ln , the w <"ddemand, is badly formed
com ml .'l'* W °' d done > and is no
ofit ' as there,s ,n the
dev ' ce > is much darker in
the fli-H* ' la " ln tht genuine bills owing to
n fi coarser, much netrer
mfrous 'tm rff qUe " tly much more nu "
view difference ft'ikes the eye at firft
dollars' re T, a u rd of ONE tho USAND
nrofer JT ' W,U be PiUd apprehending, &
described f>ff° . COnv,aion the fe «-ral above
THOMAS WILLING, P.efidem
of the B.mk United States.
JOHN NIXON, Prcfidcnt of the
Bank ot North America.
By order of the Committees of the Res- I
pe&ive Boards.
TO BE SOLDT
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
TN an eligible fitu a tion,-alfo a Country Seat
X within 6milesof the City, with 9 acre's of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
Houie is not exceeded bvmany in the vicinity
of the city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
v &Wf
America, is runoved to n No »™
Front street, be.ng the southf out h -ft'? 7 ' S °" rh
Front and Walnutftreets. corner of
To the
county of Philadelphia
Gentlemen,-
This being the lad year of m
Sheriffs time in office i t,i, , P
ty ro offer m Vfelf a Candidate »nd r
vour votes and interelh in n,y favor , ,' C,t
me on the return at the next „ p,are
as his successor for said office .^ 0 "'
you will confer an obheatin tk g wh, ch,
gratefully remembered, by " will
Your moj obedient,
and bum t ,| e servant,
May 3 . J° HN baker.
T, : estf.
bt ock Brokers Office'
T'HF'S hf' N EW -YO R K '
STOCKS on COMMISSION t, SALE or
fcr his fervicesto „i. ,r, c ™; d C,M '
Orders trom Philadelphia, Boflon or .
other part of the United States, w ,ll be ft iA,"
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKEr!
~ : ni&t h t f
Jiift Published,
fl one handsome volume, 1 2mo . Prp r ; ce
| and for sale by
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, iVo. 41, Chefuut
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men
On the Rights that result f rom it, and on the
JJuties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
•I eylenan bociety at Haarlem.
„ „ C V"Std and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN
1). D. '
ProfefTor of Moral Philosophy, and the Laiv
U . re ' a " d °<' Ecclefialtical Hiftorv
and M.n.fter of the English Chu.ch at ul
trecht.
Aliqmd semper ad communcm utilitatem af
terenoum. r r„ BBA
cyi .« CICERO.
Jhe rirji American Edition.
T'HEgrand principle of Equality, if right
s ly underflood, is the only bafi's on which
universal justice, sacred order, and perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The view of it exhibited in this
eJTay, at the fame time that it represses the
infoJeace of office, us - smJ
the outrages of oppression ; confirms, i'n the
mofl forcible manner, the necessity of fubor
di nation, and the just demands of 1
thorny. So far indeed, from loosening the 4
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil distinction,
dtaws.more closely every social tie, unites in
one harmonious and justly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. , ut f
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the Houje of Representatives,
WDICiMBER 21 it, 17Q9.
HEREAS the Comtmllioners ol public
Accounts, h ve reported, that thev can.
not oroceed to the invefligation of ihe Trealuty
Accounts, reipt fling Ipecial Indents, without
knowing the outflanding amount thereol in cir
culation Therefore,
That all holders of special Indents
be dirtaed, and requir. a, on or before the full
day of November n xt, to deliver the special In
dents in their poffeflion to one or other of the
Commissioners of the Treasury, who are to K ive
receipts lor the fame, and to report to ibeCoin
mifhoners on public accounts, on or belme the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
them refpe£lively received, and also lotheLe
® ' at " re > at their meeting in November next.
,1 c a 'l special Indents not rendered into
"J® Jreafury as above, on or before the firil day
o i ovember next, shall be, and the fame ate
neieby barred.
Rejolved, That public notice of this resolution
, e given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day ot
November next. And that the Delegattsof this
a thC Con 6 refs of lh « United S ates, be rc
quelted to cause this resolution to be published
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made ror the expences attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution 1)e sent to the
Senate for their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SANFORD DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
December 21(1,1793.
Rejolved, That this House do concur with the
Houie of Rej^rtfen talives in the foregoing icfo
lutions. 6 b
Ordered; That the resolutions be lent to the
House of Representatives.
by order of the Senate/
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov.
PHILADELPHIA
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
Smuth Fourth-Street.
\