EV E NI N G AD V E R T I S E R.
[No. 150 of VoJ. V.] Wednesday, May 14, 175)4. [Whole No. 526.]
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. I'itzpatfick,
from Amllcrdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes, x
A fe<K bales Holland Duck,
Ditto O&idhcgs,
Holland Sheetjrfg,
"lumper Berrvs,
6/a/s Ware, tTumblers And Mugs, va
rious Joes.
Sheathing Paper,
S%ve</e,' Iron, jqi'.are andJlat bars,
Hair Ribbarc!, No. 4'.
Dutch Great Ci'dts, '■ '
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, c.
FOR SALE BY .
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
!hcul4application, he made within a few days ;
tthcY'toife Jhc -will take freight for Amjler
datn. v ♦SS. ~ .. ;
March I, 1794- —tf
Excellent CLARET,
J-n hog(heads and in cases of 50 oottlcs each.
A L 4 O,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA, .
Id pipe*, hoglhcads aud quaiier catk*,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111, South Front Itr.eci.
T<»-», 1794- a * f
City of Washington.
THt Subscribers to the Articles of Agree- ;
roer»t of the tl Columbian Society'' are fe *
q.cftcd to m-.et at Mr. Richardet's TaVern
in the city of Philadelphia, on Monday the
26tbd;iyof the present month, 12 o'clock
in order lochoofea board of Managers, &rc.
§0 contonnity until the 9th article of their a
greemeut.
yams' GreenlMf.
N. B. Dinner will be ordered 011 the Table
' at j nf MlllUTll(»t'«
■iay choofe~to pass a focia? hour after the
ouftviefs of the day is finifhed.
May 5. dre6lVl.
Wharton and G reeves,
liave'removed their Counting House from
Wa'ei street, to Morton's wfiarf,
Where they have for Sale>
Madeira and Ikerry Wind,
ft for immediate use
Gin fa cafis,
Souchong Tea 9
JShcfc Peppery
Raffia Malts y
Jfititj Ea?k y
Coffee, and
Eighty Hbds, prime Tobacco.
I'-:?:-- /—M.
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. nS',
MaifeMyStrecf,
Ati EfTay 011 Slavery,
~ 1 to cxmbit mi a new [>oin; ol vieW
its effects co morals, rndujiry, and tuc peacr of
Jocrety. Sotoe fafrs and calculation* are otfered
lo prove the labor ot Jrccmen to be myqdi more
productive than 'hat ot slaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and lia'pjJy, in proportion a? tlie
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
Jaoor ; and hence-then ccltlry conclusion, that
slavery is impati/idas well as unjitjl.
Pr ice 25 jCcnts. dtf
February 15.
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
superior quality in pipes, imported in the lhip
Wilning'ton.
OLD SHERRY WINE of the firft quality
in quarter casks, imported in the brig Nancy
capt. Gw.iri. from Cadiz.
SHELLED ALMONDS and a feu* kegs of
RAISINS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIFFE WINES,in ftpe*
hhds. and quarter cj!ks, imported in the (hip
Thomas, capt. Skinner.
A few quartet calks of old particular bill
of exchange : MADEIRA WIN lE.
Gedrge Meade,
Who ha? a!fu, just arrived and for file
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lisbon Salt.
A quantity of empty BAGS for fafe.
April J- w&sim.
II
N O T I C E.
THE Subscriber leaving this city lor a short
time, has empowered Mr. Thomas Pbtier to
tranlaC't all butinefshi his absence, holding his
tranfa&ions as Valued on
Louis Ofmont.
May io d t f
NANKEENS.
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
FOR SALS AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April 4r. mv.&ftf
SHOE S.
A Quantity of stout well made Men's size
SHOES, adapted for the Southern makket 9 fv>i
laie «.t
No. 36, North Third Jlreet.
iVlay 6 mw&fiDt
REMAINING
OF THE
Ship India's Cargo,
I" FROM
BENGAL.
A small alTortmeni of
BALE GOODS,
253 &gs COTTON of good quality, which
would probably make an excellent remit
tance to Europe, and a
; Quantity of PEPPER
For Sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Who ha t alfd to dijfofe of
Barcelora'Han'd'ft. in bbxes^
Holland cases,
Souchong, Plyfon, and Tonkay Tea,
A quantity us Brimstone, &c.
■jVlay io d3w
ADVERrISEMENT\
SALES at NEW-YORK, by A. L.
BLEECKER o SONS,
1 j3n Thurfd.iv thc-isth M.iy next at Twelve
o'clock at the Tontine CcfieeTloule,
THE FOLLOWING
Tf.a£fs of Land,
111 Witkiqs and Flint's purchase, in the coun
ty of Tioga, ft'ate ot New York.
The containing acres.
i-S-tnthweft quar. of TowWftj p No. 2, 9,424
Northwest do. do. 4, 5,6.--
N'Qrtheaft <Jq. do. 6, 10,525
Southwest do. do. 7, 9:100
i Southwest do do. 8, 3,gJ3
$0 thwefti do. do. 8, 6, ?p
SOUtheast do. do. 9, 6,253
S.mcaeaft do, do. 10, 9,000
North'*eft do. do. 10, 10,475
7°,5
Theft lands rapidly encreafing in valu ,
lArge-settlements are already made in feveril
of the townships; the goodilel's of foil, and
the advantages in point of situation being so
well known, render any lurther de(cripti<ni
unnereflary. Ain.p of the t rafts and condi
tions of fsle may be seen at No. 10, Queen
fbreet, New-York.
April 10. tuth&sti4M
WANTED IMMEDIATELY,
A good Pressman,
Who v ill meet with coiiftant employ. Apply
to Sterner and Kammeror,No. 85, Racf-StT< r ct.
_Mav 13,1794- d— 3:
The Ground Plan
of the
City and Suburbs
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM ACTUAL SUREST.
IT is with pleasure that the publisher has tb
inform his fubfcr.'.yrsand the public in gene
ral, that the plate is now under the hards of*
the engraver, and in gieater torwardnfs than
was at firft contemplated. At th£ fame time
he begs leave to r< mind them, that fubferip
tion papers are ftrll open at moll of the noted
book-stores in the city ; and that he hopes
from the whole of them robe enabled,to form
such a catalogue of name?, as will
do a credit to the work, as well as afford a
reasonable encouragement to the uiideftake-r
Those who are delimits of further iofonna.
tion are requefled to"call on
Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, Market itrcet.
April 14. m§Cthtf
Philadelphia.
Extraß of a letter from Messrs. Perkins of
Bojlon, May 6.
" No arrivals of conlequerice, except a vef
-1 David Greene's, which was bound from
Aux-Cayes to Boston, with sugar, coft'ee, &c.
taken and adjudicated at New-Provii
dericej and by order of the Court dis
fcHARGED.
At a Special Meeting of tlie New-York
Chamber of Commerce, May gth, 1794.
The committee of this corporation, ap
pointed to frame rcfolutions, expressive of
their sense of the great attention and regard
evidenced by the executive of the United
States, to the mercantile interests thereof;
and particularly in the appointment of ast
envoy extraordinary, tb the Court of Great
Britain; report the following refolotions:
1 ft. Itefo'ved, That a principal excellence
of republican governments, is their fupericr
tendency to preserve peace and harmony
with all mankind.
2d. Resolved, That tliis Corporation can
discover neither policy, nor justice in com
mencing hostilities against any nation before
the means of negociation have been exerted
to prevent them.
3d. Resolved, That in the present crilis,
we consider the appointment of an envoy ex
traordinary to the court of Great Britain as
one among the most powerful of these means,
having an equal view to the Peace, Interejl,
and Dignity of the Republic.
4th. Resolved, That the tal and inte
grity of the charadter felefied for this im
portant million, have ini'pired his country
men with confidence, and will, as we be*
lieve, have a happy e fit eft in bringing to a
favorable ifiue, the object of his negociations.
sth. Resolved, That if ncverthelefs, this
embafiV (hould fail to preserve to us the bles
sings of peace, yet we persuade ourselves it
cannot fall to convince all nations of our
justice and moderation; to unite our own
sentiments and efforts, and render an appeal
to arms, more honorable to us, and more
formidable to our enemies.
By order of the Committee,
JOHN 3LAGGE, Chairman.
The preceding refoluti ns being unani
mously approved of, it was ordered that the
fame be published as the sense of this corpo
ration.
COMFORT SANDS, President.
A true extradl from the minutes,
Wm. LAIGHT, Sec'ry.
AMERICA.
KINGSTON, (Jam.) April 5.
Saturday arrived his majesty's (hip I.
phigenia, Capt. Sinclair,from the Bite of
Leogane, with four prizes in company*
names as follow, who were captured bv
her and the Mufquito on the 20th ult.
The national French brig of war l'Ac
tif, of 14 guns, and 106 i.ien, monf. Gu
bian, commander ; the ships Les Veteran
and Marihal de Levie, laden with coffee
and ftigar, and the armed brig L'Efpie
gle, of 12 guns, with some sugar and
cottou. These vessels, in company with
l'Aftif, escaped from Port-au-Prince in
the night of the 19th, and intended pufti
ing to sea. The armed brig was bound
for Port-au-Paix ; they were brought too
by -.the Iphigenia of Point Lamenton,
and carried into the road of Leogane j
they are all copper-bottomed. The Iphi
genia has 140 French prifonerson board.
On the 19th, the Iphigenia fell in with
a schooner which had on board M. Def
fburneax, Lieut. CcJ. of the regiment .d' [
Artois, and too soldiers of the regiment,
(who liad fled from Port-au-Prince) and
carried them into Archave.
The American schooner Hannah, with.
provifians and lumber, prijee to the ihip
Gipfey, taken off Bermuda, was sent in
on Saturday. §he was from Wilmington
bound to Barbadoes.
Also, the schooner Hawke, in
prize to the schooner Thomas, taken off
Tiburon. *
Arrived on Weduefday from a cruize
his Majefty.'s ship Hound Capt. Gardne.r,
with the French national brig La Liber
t6, of 14 guns, fix pounders, and 120c
Urn, taken by fii< Majesty's (hip AUi
g;:ti-r, ofl the *(?e-au-Vache. ,
;tbove hrijj had t'jiptuicd alid fnt
fcto Aiii Caytts, the ktftor of m.uque
Po!iy a:rd Jane, belonging to this port.
The American Schochef Sally, from
Gioucelter, was Cent in on Thuriday
evening, by (hip Alligator. ;
She was in company with t.ie brig
Libc'rte,-when taken.
\V ednefdav evening the (loop Mercury,
Ba',h, returned from the Grand Caymanas
which lie left at noon the 2ill instant.
Capt. Babb informs, that the veflels unfor
tunately lofl at that island are almost all
beat to pieces; the produce laved amount
to only about 50 hogsheads of sugar, 150
•puncheons of rum, 600 bags of pimento,
100 ba'iis of cotton, much damaged ; and
some tons of wood.
NASSAU,( N. P. ) April 11.
In consequence of the French privateers
being permitted to carry their prizes into
the Swedifli I (land of St. Bartholomew,
we are informed, Sir John Jarvis hinted
to the Governor, that he had heard of
such things ; and that when his business at
Martinique, St. Lucia and Guadaloupe
was accomplished, which promised to be
soon, he would pay him a viiit, and make
inquiry into the reasons his excellency had
for aconduiS so hostile to the allied powers.
Our intelligence ad Js, the hint was inllant-*
ly taken ; and, as atonement for pad error,
<tl! French privateers in port were ordered
to depart immediately, and entr'arice to
thfrn or their prizes in future forbid.
CONGRESS.
House of Rrprefntati-jJi.
In committee of the whole House when Mr.
Clark's prepefition for f'.[pending the
commercial inter course between the United
States and Great Britain was uuder con
[ideration, the following obfervationt were
s made Ij Mr. J. Wad [worth :
The path to bepurfued by this country
Mr. Chairman, is, in my opinion, a plain
' One, if -reafoftj and not paflion be our
guide. We have fuffered
rights lia-v 1 s been violated :It is our duty
to seek reparation for the former, and to
vindicate the latter. But war is a calamity
of theextremeft kind ; it ought then only
to be encountered in the lalt extremity ;
every thing poflible flioitld be attempted
to avoid it—every thing ihould be avoid
ed that vvill tend to enereafe the chance of
ite evidence.
The plainest facts demondrate that onr
raie is not out of the reach of a remedy,
by negociaqon. A revocation of the in
ftniftions of the 6th of November, and
the explanations which have been given
Concerning them, afford an aflurance that
whatever may haVe been the disposition of
the British government at cne time, war
with this country did not continue to be
its purpose..
What is the inference from such a (late
of things—why plainly this—that we
ought to make effe&ual preparations for
the word that may happen ; that we ought
to go t work in earned, and with vigor,
to pnt the country in a ftateof defence'—
in a poilure for serious War ; and in this
position, we ought to make one more ap
peal to the judice, the good sense of Great
Britain ; but if the gentlemen will not al
low me these exprefiions as applied toGreat
Britain, I will withdraw them, and fay
their interest. And if that fails, then,
and not before, we ought to meet with
decision and firmnefs, the only alternative
■^—IVar.
In the mean time fir, we ought to do
nothing that can prove an obstacle to the
success of negociation ; we (houlfl not by
any rash or intemperate measure make ac
commodation on the part of Great Britain
impoflible, without dishonor ; we (hould
not so act as to force her pride, to take
lide against her reason and her interest. If
a war is to happen, unanirtiity among our
selves will be of infinite importance ; if
ourcourfebe such, as to render it manifed
to all our citizens that we have done every
thing in otir power to avoid the evil; that
we have availed ourselves of all the chances
of preferring peace, that we have done
nothing that could destroy a fingl'c one of
them, then we (hall secure unanimity ;
then may w? rely, that every nerve of the
country will be drained, every resource
cahed forth to defend ourselves, and annoy
th« enemy r and here I trust I {hall not
be behind any -Han in exertion and perse
verance: But if out course be such as to
. leave a doubt, Whether the war might not
( hnve been with greater p. udeaec avoided ;
t a fofpicion that it ifltsy h?vt been precipi
tated by Violent and premature mcalures,
adieu to unanimity.
The arrivat of the calamity awakening
men's minds to its magnitude, and fublti
tating the operations of reason for those of
; p.iffion, will substitute censure for applause;
j coridemjiatioa for approbation ; the govern-,
ment will lose the confidence of the people
as having been rafli and inconsiderate.
Our efforts will be languid and feeble, our
, councils diflratftecl and disjointed, and the
lt.ift evil (hat can happen, will be an inglo
| rious, and di&dvantageous peace ; what worse
may be in the womb of time, God only
knows.
' I call on these who hear me to (hun this
> course. I know the temper of the people I
represent. I have every day communications
that shew me their extreme disapprobation
of any measure that can lessen the chance
for peace. I therefore with the greated con
fidence preditfl what will be their conduct
' on one, or on the other plan of procedure. I
' believe the temper of the citizens of the
neighboring dates is not materially different
i from that of the citizens of the date to which
I belong. I presume it will not be under
stood that the citizens of the date I came
from, aie willing tamely to submit to be
ruined by the ravages of Great Britain. No
fir, they love peace, and will court it with
warmth; but if war be unavoidable, they
will not be behind their neighbors, they feel,
and feel keenly the wrongs and injuries, and
» their I'efentments are strong.
1 aflc the warmed advocates for the pro
pcfed measure to form in their own minds a
jud edimate of the fubdantial value of unan
imity, of the comparative faculties of the
different parts of onr country, for military
exertions, they will not do ill to review the
example of the latft war.
For my parr 1 am refjlved whatever may
be the current of the moment, to bear my
tedimony againd all measures of a tendency
to deltrov the profpe<sl of peace.-1 consider
the one under coniiderat'on as such a mea
sure, and mean to make my opposition to it.
Let those who are bold enough to court
danger to the country, dand didinguiihed
to their fellow citizens—from those who,
tho' resolved to be prepared for war, and
to mee: it with fortitude when it is inevita
ble, at the fame time are resolved not to
precipitate so great an evil. I cheerfully
concede to the former all the glory, they
will have, all the responsibility of their en
terprize.
I have thus expressed my real sentiments
not attempting to torture any man's argu
ments, or wound their feelings ; and were-I
to indulge myfelf in railing at tlie British for
their un'pidifiable depredations on our trade,
I think fir, I could Vff traS3 otl'ici
gentlemen who have gone before me—l
Relieve it would be useless, and T f orbear.
The TIMES, No. XUI.
POLITICAL ECONOMY.
IN ancient Greece and Rome, labor
was the business of (laves exr.lufively.—
Mechanics, laborers on land, and even
clerks and physicians were (laves. Free
men were all soldiers, and the produuee
of tha foil, subsistence, and of course po
pulation depended on the number of (laves.
This induced these nations to save all pri
soners of war. The Greeks and Romans
with all their boaded virtue, and elegan
cies, were the Algerines and the (lave
traders of antiquity.
In the former times, as now in some
parts of the world, men labored because
they were (laves to others; in modern
free countries, men labor because they are
(laves to their own wants.
Wants promote indudry industry
gives food—-and food increases popula
tion. One Irish peasant will maintain a
family of 6 or 8 peifons on potatoes and
milk—but it requires the labor of a hun
dred hands to procure the furniture, the
gardens and the delicacies of one noble
man.
It is a maxim, that the strength of a
country is in proportion to its number of
inhabitants— true, if the people art all
employed. But if they are not employ
ed, they are excrescences that load and
enfeeble the body politic. Do the beg
gars of a country add to its strength ?Is
Naples a more powerful date for its
30,000 Lazarones ? The business of a
state is to find employment for its people
—procreation will need no public encou
ragement.
It is a maxim, that a man who marries
and brings up a family of children, does
a service to the state— true, if he edu
cates the children to business. But if he
trains them up in idleness, he does hurt
instead of good—he brings into the state
an additional number of hungry mouths
and unproductive hands. The bachelor
who spends £1000 in employing the
poor of his neighbourhood, does more
good than a father who fpcnds £ i 000 on
half a dozen idlers in his own family.
P. S. If a Virginia democrat lives by
the labor of 'fla»es,'and a northern *rifto
crat by the labor of his own hands,
which is the most ufeful member of soci
ety ?
NEW-YORK, May 12.
The following lift of American vessels,"
was handed us by captain 1 odd, from
fort Dauphin, which had been feut in
there by the Spanish men of war and
privateers.
Ship , Young, of Newbury-port
Brigs Betsy, Curwin, Newport
Dauphin, Morris, New-York
Aurora, Sage, Middletown
Nymph, Webb, Philadelphia
Rofanna, Baxter, Boston
Sch'r. Dove, Gawen, Portsmouth
Lively, Slocnm, Patuxent
Port-au-Prince, Jones, Baltimore
Sloops Jacob, Phillips, Hartford
Polly, Hodge, Philadelphia
Diamond, Buck, Newbury-port
Eliza, Moffat, Baltimore
, Bill, Norwich
Maich 19th, ship Phoebe, of Phila
delphia, Andrew Burk, mailer, mn on
(hore 011 the east reef of Fort-Dauphin.
It is said by persons lately from Bour
deaux in France, that provisions are ex
tremely scarce,' and many parts of the
country are in great distress—parties and
factions rage with violence —and a new
party has arisen, called the Rock, and
which openly demands' a di&ator. Men
ol observation and reading have long fore
feenthis event—it is an expedient to which
the Romans resorted in all cases of an
archy and fadion —it is now probably the
lait and only expedient to save France fiom
conqneft, and more terrible fceues of blood.
What mifcry and wretchedness mud the
Jacobins have introduced into France, to
compel a brave people to flielter
under the strong arm of dSttic power!
The addi pfs of Mr. BriffotmSis constitu
ents is nOw published, and 011 its
authenticity. This work discloses such
series of crimes, such intrigues, murders,
massacres, plunder of public and private
property, as fill every reader with horror.
The great source of the evils France now
fuffers, he ascribes veryjuftly to the tyran
ny of the Paris mob, and hired affaffim
that fllrrimr.fl inttmiVWg ttr- CcrrrvCTl
tion. This book is recommended to the
perusal of Americans ; for it cannot fail
to warn our citizens of the danger of fuf
fering legislative poroceedings to be go
verned by sudden and illegal collections of
the people.
'/ \ ■■ i\ n "■>
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 14.
A correspondent was much surprised to
hear it admitted in the House of Repre
sentatives, that out •oejfels would be as mucli
in danger of capture in tfie Weft-Indies as
ever, if the embargo should lie discontinued,
and yet aflerted at the fame time that it
ought to be discontinued, becaufs it was tu
con-venient to France. This might be a good
reason if we were colonies of France, or if
we were under the government of commis
sioners from the National Convention ; but
it may be doubted whether such a preference
to the interests of a foreign country over our
own is either honorable to ourselves or recon
tiliable with the duty of those who are not
representatives of the French but of the A
merican nation.
Extra ft of a letter from Bojlon, may 5.
In this day of delirium in Europe, our
nation should be more than commonly
calm, sober and deliberate.
The freedom and religion of the world
may (so far as men are instruments in pro
vidence) depend on the steady wisdom of
America.—l therefore more than ever,
regret the wretched inflammatory ftuff,
which is continually ifiuing fiom a number
of News-Papers in our country, they are
sources of vice and corruption—three or
four fcribblets furnifh one of these vehi
cles in this Town, with Jluff- —miserable
tools to serve each other in climbing. May
the labors and designs of hontft patriots
prosper—and may the enemies of truth
and virtue, be confounded.
It is so clearly evident from the hiftoiy
of nations and their prsfent state, that
public Credit, founded on unblemished
public faith, is the great fpiing of indus
try, private credit, wealth and power—
that men must be either extremely igno
rant, or traitors to their country, who
i
.. «
\ • IK ' H|
do not labor to Stengthen our publ,'
credit, and perfect the federal gov cri , C
ment.-*—ln cafe of war, no nation can
raise supplies to support it long, without
loans, ajjd as no nation can be assured of
perpetual .peace, this circumltance alone
is fufficient to (hew tlie folly of the little
politicians, who trifle in fitters of p,A
lie credit.
By every arrival, we hear rf
umphs of the French ; and Tna not
the hope of peace in E'-rvpe tjy, f, m
Notwithftandintr hat a frw
fcribblew writ', i a n affiled frem the
belt information, that the great dy c
the people, Ji»ough the caftan a;,d p.: rh.
ern states, an ardent forpc £ ce, th- pre
servation of the national government, and
the public credit.
From th: General Advcrtifer, of this
Morning.
A letter dated New-York the 12th,
mentions, that Mr. Jay embarked on the
cnorning of that day, under a salute from
the cannon of the place: but that the
militia had refufed parading to do honor
to the departure of our extraordinary mi
nister.
Statement, taken from Lloyd's lifts, of the
vefTels captured from the ill February,
1793, (the commencement of the war)
i ' to the 7ft February, 1794.
By the Etiglifh Ships.
French of which 75 are privateers, )
4 frigates, 3 sloops. j
Dutch, 4
Swedish, 1
Danilh, 4
Hamburg, 8
American, ij
Spanish, 1
English, havihg French property )
on board, )
By the Spanish Ships.
French of which 3 are privateers, i\
English, 3
Swedish, z
Danilh, 3
American, 8
30
By the Dutch Ships.
French, 1
By the French Ships.
Engliili of which 10 are privateers, )
and 1 frigates, )
Dutch, • 4S ,
Danzig, " 4
Danish, ?
Hamburg, 6
American, 8
Bremen, I
Spanish, 4
Portuguese, z
410
The above does not include the captures
at Toulon, which amount by our Gazette
Account, to 4J ships of all forts, burnt or
carried off.
French, 410
English, 184
Spaniards, 80
Dutch, 1 r&lb
S4
In favor of the French Republicans against
all the combined powers.
■ Re-captures are allowed for in the above
statement.
LAW Of THE UNS
THIRD CONCRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES;
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the state of Pennsylvania, pn Monday,
the second of December, one thoyfaud
seven hundred and ninety-three.
An A3 direding a Detachment from the
Militia of the United States.
Sec. I. "O.E it enabled by the Senate and
JO Hoifi of ReprefeiHatives of
the United States of America in Congress
ajfembled, That the President of th< Unit
ed States be, and he is hereby authorized
to require of the executives of the several
states, to take efFedual meafuies, as soon
as may be, to organize, arm and equip,
according to law, and hold in readiness to
march at a moment's warning, the follow
ing proportions, refpe&iyely, of eighty
thoufanO effective militia, officers included,
to wit From the state of Georgia, one
thousand three hundred and thirty-three 4
—•from the state of South-Carolina, three
thousand ftve hundred and fifty -—from
the state of North-Carolina, seven thou
land three hundreif and thirty-one from
the state of Kentuky, one'thoufand five
hundred and thirty-two lhe ft atc
r* Virginia, eleven thousand three hun
i,-edanil il-veiity-feven ; —from the state
nt M-J.ylatid, five thousand four hundred
id eighteen ; —from the state of D Ja
w-are, one thousand two hundred and fifty-,
fix ; —from the state of Pcnnfylvania, ten
thousand seven hundred and sixty-eight;—
from the (late of New-Jersey, four thou
iind three hundred and eighteen ; —from
•he state of New-York, seven thousand
ine hundred aud seventy-one ; from the
tate of Vermont, two thousand one hun
dred and thirty-nine ; —from the state of
Connecticut, five thousand eight hundred
:nd eighty-one ;—from the state of Rhode
I (land, one thousand fix hundred and nine
ty-feveq ; —from the state of Maflachu
fetts, eleven thousand eight hundred and
eighty-five; —from the state of New-
Hampshire, three thousand five hundred
and forty-four.
Sec. 2. And be it further enabled, That
the detachments of militia atorefaid (hall
be officered out of the present militia aiii
cers, or others, at the option and discreti
on of the constitutional authority in each
flatc rcfpeciivcly.
Sec. 3. And le it further evafled, That
the President may, if he judges expedient,
authorize the executives of the several
states, to accept any independent corps
of cavalry, artillery or infantry, as part
of the detachments afore laid, provided,
they (hall voluntarily engage as corps in
the fci vice.
Sec. 4. And le it further enafled, That
the said militia shall not be compelled to
serve a longer time, in any one tour, than
three months after their arrival at the
place of rendezvous : And that, during
the time of their service, beiides their pay
and other allowances, which shall be the
fame as the troops on the military efta
blilhment of the United States, they
shall receive at the rate of one dollar and
sixty cents for cloath'ng, per month.
See. 5. And be itfurther entitled, That
the President of the United States be re
qucfted to call on the executives of the se
veral dates, to take the most effectual
means, that the whole of the militia, not
omprifed within the foregoing requifiti
< , be armed and equipped according to
I 7.
Sec. 6. And le it further enafttd, That
tins ait shall continue aud be in force, for
the space of one year from the pasTing
;reo£ <md from thsaw; to the,cud 01
ittexr Kiuun of \Jongreia, anl 110 longer.
FRXDERICK AuGUSTUsMuHIiENBERa,
Speaker of the House of
Reprefentntives,
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United States, and President
of the Senate.
Approved—May the ninth 1794.
G°. Washington
President of the United States.
By this Day's Mail.
NEIVTORK, May 13.
y?"ttrrhy morning,, 9 o'clock, the Hon.
JOHN JAY, Envoy Extraordinary to the
Court of Gteat Britain, with Mr. TRUM
BDL, his Secretary, embarked for London
011 board the (hip Ohio, Capt. Kemp.
The Difinel Judge, fuchof the Judges of
the Supreme Court of this State, as were in
this City, many other Civil Officers, and an
immense coneourl'e of refpedable Citizens,
attended Mr. Jar from his house to thfcihiju
When-Ac miaiaer the
Citizens- saluted him with three cheers and
acclamations, which were repeated when the
(hip left the wharf. The citizens then pro
ceeded to the Battery, where as soon as the
Ohio arrived, Mr. Jay was saluted with a
dileharge of cannon, which was immediately
followed by three cheers from Governor's
Itland. Seldom have we seen so numerous
and refpediable a collection of Citizens ; and
such demonftrntions of a sincere desire that
the embassy may be fnccefsful.
It gives us pfeafure to add, that Mr. Jay,
on taking leave of the company, exprefled,
in a (hort address, his fenfibifity and gratitude
for their attentions, and a (lured them of his
determination to do everything in his power
to efTed the object of his million and secure
to us the bladings of peace.
Great credit is due to the citizens of New-
V ork, for the (pirit and unanimity with which
they aid at the works on Governor's Kland.
The voluntary services performed on the for
tifications amount to many thousand days
work.
The zeal of all parties in this business proves,
that howaver men may differ on speculative
points, or certain nieafures of government
of little importance, yet all men agree to put
the country in a poflureof defence. Indeed
. the difference of parties seems in reality to
be this: whether we (hall go to war before
it is necedary or not.
Agreeable to public not,;,cation, the Tam
many Socicty met at Mr. Hunter's tavern
i- ye.lerday, and, at n o'clock, \vt:!k:d in pro
:e cefticn to the Dutch church, where, to a nn
c] merous and crouded auJiente, Mr. Jo'n B.
t Johnfoil ddlivcred an animated c.-a ion, on
Union,, wherein he difpliyc-d, v'it'i greit
eioqu.'nfe and oratory, the great uenefits
n resulting from union and patriotiiin.
ARRIVED.
I- Brig Diana, Gardner, St. Cbriftophsrs
n and S. Eullatia.
J Schooner Friendship, Rale, George Town
e Charielton, Hull, Edenton
Sloop Sally, Bunker, Turks-liland
" Nancy, Stephens, Savannah
Greenwich, Townfend, York-Town
i Clarifla, Gardner, St. Christophers
e Brig Jane, Buchanan, failed from Jamaica
for this port ten days before the Sally.
Brig Sally, Darrah, is arrived at Jamaica
j from Virginia.
. BOSTON, May 8.
TOWN MEETING.
: Yesterday the inhabitants of this town,
1 aflembled in town meeting for the purpose
of chooling fnitable persons to represent
in General Court the year, when
i the following petfons were eledted.
Will am Tudor, William Euftis, Jo
t fepli Bkke, Thomas Edwards, Charles
, Jarvis, John Winthrop, Perez Morton.
[ Several fpiritedrefolutions were pafied •
i at the above meeting to prevent foreftall
ing in the public market.
GUADELOUPE.
Since our Iafl: there has been three
arrivals from Guadaloupe, which bring in
formation fiom that Idand, as'late as the
6th of April, at which time it had not
been attacked by the Bntifh, though hav
ing heard of the capture of Martinico, it
was momently expected. By some it was
supposed a feeble refinance only would be
made ; others, that it would be found dif
ficult to conquer. The fort is said to
mount 106 pieces of cannon; and the
whole Idand has plenty of provisions, at
pvefent,
We hear that the Capt. of a veflel ar
rived at Salem, in a ihort pafTage from
Guadaloupe, saw the British fleet close in
with the Idand, and during the night
heard the firing of cannon.
From Bourdeaux, Marih 18.
Yesterday arrived here the brig Diana,
Capt. Martin Pease, 4" days from Bour
dcax, where he has been detaiped several
months thc-embargo on American vel
pers brought by this vjfly, but the verbal
information of the Captain is rather gloo
my 011 the part of France. He mentions
that the French army opposed to the Soan
iards had loft ground ; that the Northern
at my remained in Jldtu quo, neither advan
cing nor retreating that the rebels were
nearly conquered ; that provisions were
very scarce at Boirrdeaux, which occa
foiled some commotions in the City ; that
for the last three weeks there was no bread
in the place. He further believed, that
this scarcity of provisions was general
throughout F/ance.
We publiflt the above intelligence, as
we received it, wliich, we conceive con
sonant to our duty. Every one will have
an opportunity of commenting on it as
he pleases. Some will be disposed to
heighten the gloomy colors on the French
fide ; and others difbeiieve it in toto.
A French gentleman, pafTenger with
Cap:.W!v P,-.| wUU a
script of his own, of which we have pro
cured a trandation. We would remind
our readers, that our informant is proba
bly unacquainted with our means of in
formation refpeding European occurren
ces.
Snbjlancc of the Manuscript.
He fays, that the Convention has been
so very busy, ever since the ift of Feb.
that it pafled none but such decrees, as
were dictated by eircumftances ; among
which was diftinguiflied that which con
demns to imprisonment, during the war
and banishment after, all such persons as
have n»-t manifeftcd their avowal of the
revolution, scc. &c.
Ihe armies of the combined powers,
whose advanced pofls, were already at St.
Quentin, were in a formidable train.
Tlie duke of Brunfwick, continues our
kind informant, had by a retrograde move
ment, the better to fecore his winter quar
tcrs, gone into Alsace, and the French
had retreated forward to Strafburg.
As to the Spaniards, they have beat
too ; they have taken Collioure, Post
V enore, &c. they a-pewprcs that is, near
ly destroyed the whole army, which was
opposed to them. Rifum ! They were
*oing to make the f.ege of Perpignan—
- the French army had been th/whole of
th* winter witho jt any provisions. *
1 he troubles of La Vendee, our intel
igencer fays, is in a formidable ilate ; they
i ha.e pofledion of th.ee-fouithj of France.
New* indeed ! The Convention was at last
very low spirited, it began to doubt of
fjccefs, and although they wanted new
levies, yet did not pre fume to demand any
thing of the nation. A very great diffi
; culty occasioned by the altonifhing want
of arms (they want arms in France, so
fiys Billy PiTt) and what they have are
i of bud quality.
The Scarcity of provisions was very great
—Frenchmen now live upon roots. Even
Paris began to feel the efFects of Famine.
Our informant, goes on to relate the
apprehensions that were entertained of a
nother mafTacre exaS/y similar to that
which took place at Paris in 1792, but
this he gives as his opinion.
Cut this opinion of his, traces a most
dreadful picture of the situation of France,
Which, he fays, " being divided between
rage and fury ; presents nothing but but
chers and vidlims."
" The Aflembly is not less divided, in
more violent disunion than that which
j waited upon 50 of its members to the
Guillotine, portending a bloody revolution
in Paiis, &c. &c."
PHILADELPHIA.
The difcufiion of the bill providing for
funding and paying the interest on the ba
lance due to the creditor Hates, agreeably
to the reports of the CommifTioners, has
engaged the attention of the House of
Reprefentatiyes for the la(t 2 or 3 days ;
this day the bill was palled to be engrofied
for a third reading.
By Capt. Keown arrived here from Char
leston, we learn that one of the men on
board hislhip who was stabbed in the affray,
(mentioned in a former paper) with fonie
Frenchmen, died the day after of the wound
he received.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Diys
Brig Aurora, Norqueft, Cadiz, 6
Sch'r. Sally, Bell, Virginia, 3
Bride, Quandrill, Jamaica, 12
Sloop Barman, Hays, S. Carolina, 15
■ f 1 — V!Ir 2' n 'a. <5
Willing l.ila, —Jm Uor
Cynthia, Watson, New-York, 6
CLEARED.
Sch'r. Humming Bird, Franklin Snowhill
Fly, Woodman, Nixonton, N. C.
Little Betsey, Toulfon, Norfolk
Captain Nprqueft informs, that on
t ie the 6th of March, the following Ame
rican veflels lay at Cadiz, waitiiig for a
convdy. ,
<Ships Greenaway, Oak man, Boston
Rookfby, Jones, Portsmouth
Wm. Henry, Bickford, Salem
Montgomery, Campbell, Philad.
Ceres, Young, Baltimore
Brigs Lady WalterftorfF, Brock, ditto
Enterprize, Hawthorn, Salem
Patty, White, Boftpn
I Sch'r. Friendship, Merchant, ditto
ditto, Barry, ditto
Raven, Plommer, ditto
Madison, Pennock, Philadelphia
Emma, Gi.rdler, Marblehead
Success, Lewis, ditto
A large {hip was seen about 2 o'clock
this day, under way this fide Chester; al
so a brig and a (loop arrived at the Fort—
names unknown.
Last night arrived in this port, the
French sloop of war, called the Lafcaffas,
Captain Brenfon from St. Mary's in
Georgia. The Lafcaflas carrys 18 dou
ble fortified 6 pounders, besides Swivels ;
and about 72 men.
Capt. Norqueit informs, That two A
merican veflels fiom Bourdeaux were ear
ned into Cadiz and condemned for having
French property. BeforcCapt. Norqueft
arrived at Cadiz he was at Algiers, where
he witnefTed the treatment of the Ameri
can captives. By the humanity of Mr.
Scheldebrand, the Swedish Confiil, two
of our brethren Were relieved, ene he
took to superintend his garden, and the
other, for whom lie paid 40 00 dollars, he
lent to Leghorn as master of a veflel.
Capt. Norqueft also speaks highly of
the attention of the Swedish Consul to
the American captives in general.
To Correspondents.
" Queries" &c. were prepared for this
days Gazette, but omitted for want of
room—they (hall appear to-morrow.
: ERRATA. < •;
In the piece signed « A Citizen of Phila
delphia" pubiifhed yellerday—firlt cgl. 2d.
P ! e > 10th l.ne from t lie bottom, for "re
venue," read reverence —second col. 3d line
f om the top, for " time" read turn —fame
col. 34th line, before the word " children's"
inl'ert or.
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY and FRENCH
BURR STONES,
FOR SALE BY
Gurney and Smith.
May 14. j
Ccngrefs of the United States,
In Senate, Tuesday May 13th, 1794
ORDER.ED, that Rutin Putnam, Manaf.
fall Cutler, Robert Oliver and Griffin
Green, Ho, upon ihe third Monday of Decern
her next, ihew cause to the Senate, why fa
much of the grants of land to them the said
Rutin -Putnam, ManafFnh Cutler, Robert
Oliver and Griffin to an Afl
entitled "An ast authorizing the grant a d
conveyance of certain lai.ds toihe Ohio Com
pany of a|fociates," lhall not he dechircd
v<?id, as may interfere with and be fufficienC
to fatisfy the, claims of the French settlers
! at Gallinpolii. .
Ordered, that the delivery of a copy of
the above order to Rufus Putnam, ManafTah
Cutler, Robert Oliver, or Griffin Creen, and
the* publication of the lame, one .nonth, in
one of the Gazettes printed 111 'his City, shall
be deemed fufficienl notice iheieof.
May 14. im.
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
May 14. \ (
Will be performed,
A COMIC OPERA, called
ROBIN HOOD,
SHERWOOD FOREST.
Rcfidencs in the Forest.
Robin Hood, Mr. Darley
Little John, Mr, Wtgnell
Scarlet, Mr.
Bowman, Mr. Warrell
Archers, Meflrs. BlifTet, Warrel juu.
De Moulin, Lee, Bason,
&c. dtc.
Allenra-Dale, ~ Mr. Darley jun.
otei,a » W ficm,
Shepherdess, Mrs. Bates, Mrs. Cleve
land, Mrs De Marque
Mrs. Finch, and Miss
Rowfon, &c. &c.
Visitors to the Forest.
Ruttekin, Mr. B-tes
Fr'arTuck, Mr Whitlock
Edwin,. Mr. MarO-.all
Angelina, Miss B oadh^rft
Annette,
Clarinda, Mrs. GUmix
on, late Miss George, from the Theatre
Royal Hay-Market, being her JirJl appear
ance in America.
With the original' overture, by Baumgarton,
the . reft of musical .accompaniments
composed and feleaed by Shield, with ad
ditional airs by A, Reinagle. With new
scenery, drcfles, and decorations.
After the Opera,
A Scots Plaftoral Dance,
Composed by Mr. Francis, called the Cale
donian Frolic.
In which will be introduced a Highland Reel
by Mr. Francis, Miss Willems and Mrs.
De Marque.
To which will be added,
A COMEDY, in two acts, called]
Who s the Dupe.
Doiley, Mr. Morris
Sandford, Mr. Moretorv
Granger,' Mr. Cleveland
G. adus. Mr. Harwood
Mils Doiley, Mrs. Frariria
Charlotte, Mrs. Mirihall
N. B. The public are refpeftfully acquaint
ted that there willbea performanceonThurf
day and Friday in this week, and that on
Monday the 19th inft. will be performed a
play and entertainment, as wW be erprellid
in future bills for the B£N£FFF of Mr.
FENNEL- _ ; _■
As inconveniences to the p.ublic have
arisen from, the Box book being open on the
days of performance only, in future attend
ance will be given at the office in the Th eatre
every day from ten 'till one, and on the days
of performance from ten till three o'clock in
the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, it is
refpe&fully reqseited, may be addrefled, to
Mr. at the Box^Office.
Places in the Boxes to be taken at the Box-
Office of the Theatre,at any hour from nine
in the morning till three o clock in the after
noon, en the diy of performance. Tickets
to be liad at the office near the Theatre, at
he corner of Sixth-ftreet,and at Carr & Co.'s
Muficalßepofitijry, No. 142, Market-street.ft
*
■ *
*
.'- - . - »St "* " :/**• *v*rt2£i
»' • - - ■
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank 6f the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of ihe Bank of North America,
fe-veral of which hai'e appeared in circulation
within a few $ay: fact ; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be dijlinguifhed by the following
MARK S.
Flue Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
Untied State's.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F
tor tlieir Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
waiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
Tlie O. in the word Company is smaller
than thelVL and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M. would extend con
siderably above the range of the whole V/ord.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand elofer together than the reft of the bill
The i and jf in the word promise are not
parallel, the /inclining much more Jorwaid
than the i.
The eVigraving is badly executed,the ftiokcs
of all the Letters are stronger and the devie
in themargin particularly is much coaifer and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
ol the Counterfeits bear date in 179! —Where-
as the Blank was not in operation till Decern
ber, at id no five dollar bills were iflued in
mac year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
1 America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly fmiilar
to that of the Five Dollar Notes
above defer ibed ; the engraving is betteretffc
; ; ucted, and they approach nearer to the up*
peai ance of ti<e genuine bills.
\ The fine ruled lines through the word -Twen
ty y in the body of the bill, are in number thir
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The wOid Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar B'lls as defer ibed a
bove, the 0 being leis than the », and others
-following.
1 There is no stroke to the I in the word North
whe, eas in the genuine bilis the stroke is well
*
The letters ni in the word Twent), to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to |
the line, but are Co cut as to give an irregular
•appearance to the word, the I v.' and the;-
iwg below them.
The signature ] Nixon, has the appear
ance ol Siing written wnn ■ _ la.ob-uiafk and
OJ, and c;Hcis Irom oihcr inks uled in
printing the t.:Us and the cafhid'c ngnature.
It is luppoied thcie torgeilis were commmcd
in iomeot it"- Souinerft Siatci, as a'l the coun
terleiu thai bavv appealed, have come irom
! innUwu peiiuns have Ikcit «rpp:efcf*»«*-<
01 1 hem.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid toaUy PcHon or Persons wiro th#U |
dH'covei and pioiccute to Conviction the leveial
oifenders ol ttie tollowing dc'-Tipnons or any
of them, viz.
The pei ion or p. 1 Tons, who manufactured
the paper on which the Bilk ate printed.
The per'on or peilons, who tngiaved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
Even per ton who has atted as a principal in
any other way,, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
Philadelphia,. Maich 28; 1/9"*
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank ol the Uuiicd Slates have appeared
in circulation.
The detfoWiiftation is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,anil the alphahet'iciil ma>k is tl.e let
ter B.
They iray be diftingqifhed from ihp gfnu
ine by the tollp^iug,MAßKS :
The paper ol" the counteifeits is of a more
tend.r texture and glofley furface thin the
aiitf th'fc. c~ iano nmr&iirrh<»to
The letter C. in the word Cafliier, in ihe
true bills is strongly marked, Whereas in the
counterfeits, ihe whole letter is a line hair
.stroke, evidently in an unfinifhed The
letters in the word demand, is badly formed
and the wholb word ill done, and there is 110
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
The marginal device, is much daiker in
the lalfe, than in the genuine- bills owing to
the (hade (Irokes being coa-ile», much nearer
together, and consequently much more nu
merous. This difference strikes the eye at si: ft
view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will be paid for apprehending, &
prosecuting to conviAiori the several above
described Oifenders in lefpetft to this, as to
the lafl: defer,bed bills
. THOMAS WILLING, Prudent
of the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, Pre fide nt of the
Bankol North America.
By ovder oi the Committees of the ReF
ptttivcf Boards.
tcTbeTsoldT*
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Oround,
TN an el.git.le a Coun trv
1 1 wuhiaft miles of the City, wifho acre.nl
land, or 42 acres ot land and ineaduw, th 4
h House is n..t exceededbymany in the vic'nity
a ot thf city, in fiae, or convenience.
For particulars apply tf the printer. 7
m&tlitl'
A Nfe\V Novel.
■ To the LADIES of Philadelphia,
This Day is Publijhed by
MATHEW CAREY,
118, Market street,
Price, bound, ftveeighths of a dollar, lin.'frd
in maible paper, hall a duliar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
In Tteo volumes.
By IVlrs. ROWSON, of the New Theatre
Pbladelphia, Author of Vi&oria, the Ih
quifitor, the Fille de Chambff, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given
the following character.
iT maj be a Tale oi' Truth, for it is not
unnatural, and it is a talc of real dilfrtffs.—-
Charlotte, by the artifice of a teache:, recom
mended to a school, from hnmanity rather
tbau a convi&ion ot her integrity, or the re
gularity of her former conduit, is enticed
from her governed, apd accompanies a young
officer to America—The marriage ceremo
ny, if not forgotten, is pottponed, and Char
lotte dies a martyr to the incor.ftar»sy of the
over, and treachery ot his friend —The fitu
tions are artless and affecting—the defcrip
ations natural and pathetic ; we ffioufd fee
lor Charlotte if fueh a person ever existed,
who for one error scarcely, perhaps* deserved
so severe a punifhmcnt. If it is a fiction^
poetic jultice is not, we think, properly d>f
tributed
Said Carey Lis just published,
A 1 iheet map of Kentucky
compiled by Elihu Barker, pi ice one dollar
and two thi»ds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Germany, Spa n,ltaly, the United Province?,
the Netherlands, and the Well ladies. Price
two dollars.
Map of New Jprfey—'Half a dollar.
Maps of Vci mont, CbnneftiCut, Delaware,
Georgia -Price three eigHths of a dollar
each. (
Apfil 29. tuth&s^w
j ~ Lately Published.
SO L D B Y
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street* :
THE Hiltory of N< w-Ham| th:n , from'ihe'
Difcoveiy of the River Piicataqua—by Jc
rcmiah Bttknap, D. D. 3 Vols. Price 111 l}bar£t
4 1-2 BolUts.
The Forrcfter, an American F.ble, being a
Sequel to the History of John tiull the Ciothier.
Prce, 75 Cents.
A Diic'ourfc, intended 10 commemorate the
Discovery ot America *y Chi-iUopher Colum.
bus; delivered at the rtqiiell ot tht Hiitdf.cal
Society in Mafflchufetts, Oftobrr 1795,
being the completion of the Thud Ccniuiy;
fluff t+r»t eveni. To which are
fubjeft—By the iame author. "'Prieei' sft OsiS""
Msirch 17. lutU&tgw
-NO. 2,-
Second Jlreet, betzueen Market and Che/nut
Jlreets, Pbdadoipbia.
POYNTE LL' S
A MtERIC ANf MANUFACTORY OF
PAPER HANGINGS,
WHERE he keeps up a conftint stock of
ten thousand pieces for fait , comprising every
variety of colours, in grounds and figures, of
the most modern and'rafty patterns. for eve
ry part of a house. The attained
in thimanufactory, i« peculiar 'of
jworkmai ship, durability of colours, variety
| In defjgn.«, and good quality ot the paper, will
I be found to exceed any European papers at
the fame moderate prices.
An elegant variety of rich fancy feftoon &
narrow borders, and of itucco and other co
loured pannel papers.
Plain grounds made to any colour orfhade.
WhMefa e orders for any quantity, f rom
the country or for expo'tatinp, executed on
a short notice, on artv tntageous terms, on
usual credit.
Its injrfatitfn to the above allot tment, he has
a beautiful variety of
French paper hangings
of very AlperioV quality, (Paris manufa<sh>ry)
with a variety of Hicn Borders.
April 25 t«th&s2W
ESSENCE
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold by Dr. Lek, Gdden-
S 2 'h,ir<, London.
THE pub'ic is ofered one of the most
efficacious and fafe medicines, tlWt ci er ap
ppsired, tor that most excruciating pain, the
Tooth-Ache—the numerous inflinces of its
happy 6ffefU, in relieving the aff!lfted, have
now brought it into mivSrfal'eit'rriation ; it
not only relieves the tooth-ache, but is of the
ntmoft service in curing the SCURVY in the
Gums, in preventing the difagregable imell'
that is produced from urilbund teeth, & wrtl
occafton a ftveet brcuth; it l ike wife prtvenTS
the teeth from and will be found
a general prefer ver of the Teeth and Goms
Sold in Philadelphia only at
Poyntell's Stationary Store,
No. 21, Second street.
April 2tuth&rs 3W
—*1
- T —
x \ PHILADELPHIA:
PrinteKßY JOHN FENNO, NO 3,
South Fourth-Street.
f ■ A