EVENING AD V E r T I 8 E
l_No. 2d of Vol. V.]
PRICE CURRENT. Dlh. its. Dlhxu.
UK quantity.—Dollars 100 Cents each OM, Di-tto pr cafe 20
Sweet, best, in flafks,pr.box 10 50
Twrr « t . D*no baskets, i2bottU» 10
PHILADELPHIA, Jan. u, .794- 5,,,, mjcot. p. g4 (l. 4 8
Tram per banel 10 51
ADlff. Cts. Dlh. (t\. "Vj'haie 25
WHOM pr.lb. 7 5 3 I
fcnjh#., pr*jrt. 4 33 ' pr.dnJ. * 1 be
D.to, Root, pr. lb. «j -American d:ilo bot.incl. ,8.
Art..., par, ?CI ton, iso- PiM> fcM
A ' k Car ' 1 Pork, Burlington, pel barrel, 15
A,r«k pr.gall. »33 1 Lower c suht> ,t
Brandy, common, 10a no $, olina ' T0
oaiac >30 »4 C peas, Albany pr. bulhel j
oraziictio.pr. ion. 5° on
o■ t v repDcr, pr. lh. 4P
Bricks., pr. M. 4 7 t ► «
w t, n. c iC
tread, (hip, pr. cwt. 2 07
Ditto, pilot 5 Raisins, be ft, pr. keg 7
Ditto, fin-ill water, per keg 36 P r •' j ar 333
Beer, American, in bottles, j 01: to pr. box 333
pr.doz. bottles included, 1 74 R ,cfr pr.cwt. 3
Ditto pr . barrel, 6 Rosin pr. band .78
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 20 Ram > Jamaica,pr.gallon 116
———Xew *& 14 " Ant:gua 1
— Ojfc 14 j(i Windward 86
—Merchantable pine 20 24 Barbadors 87
.Sap, do. 1067 Country, N. E. 6c
VJahogany, pcrfoot ic Salt petre, pr. cw t. 14 33
The. above arc the shallop prices, Saffafras pr. ton 6 8
forth.* yard price, add \ do!- Shot ditto 140 141
lat 33 ccut* per 1600. ' Steel, German pr.lb. 9
BrimJlone in rolls, pr.cwt. 2 Englifti,blillered, pr.,cwt. 10
K oft cm, pe- barrel 10 11 American pr. io.n :*3 33
Caumrv ditto 9 10 ——Crowley's pr. faggot 1067
Fnilj, wrewt. 333 467 ] njkc Toot P r - i-b. 20 42
Butter pr.lb. 25 »oap, Brown peflb. 6
in kegs ' White 8
Candle*, Sperm, pr.lb. . j8 Caftilp i,
- ""W*» 53 S b V ar F , . I 7
-—Myrtle Wax t8 ">utt pr. doz. bot. 4 5 €c
Mould* tailow it Spermaceti, refined, pr.lb. 48
—Dioped 14 Sailcloth. fli,No.i,pr. yard,
"Chtcfe, Ej»glifh, pr. lb. 25 — 1 Boston.'No. T. ditto 36
Country it) i:- Mo. 11. 35
Chtrcolate j6 18 -ingar Lump, pr.lb 21
Cinnamon 24® e 67 Loaf, single refined %2
Cloves 1 3,; Ditto, double do. 03
Cocoa pr. cwt. 10 it ——<H-avaunah['White 12 34
Col Fee pr-. lb. i(> >D it to, brown, 10 11
Coal pr. bushel 24 33' Mufcovado.-pr. cwjt. 9 12
■Copperas pr.cwt. 1 6; Sp:ritATurpciU!i»cp r -ga'l«n 57
C'">rda»e» American, per cwt. 9 10 Salt, ATtum pr. Vittnel |8o
Cotton pr.lb. 27 fa? ico
•Currants 12. -Cadir sic
Duck. RuTia, pr.pirpc *4 iifbon |8c
Rnvens 11 'h-pbuild. Yv'. O, frames p.ton. no
Do e i fail duck, 18 «o Diuo Live Oak., M
pr. lb. 550 Ditto red cedar, per fool 37
ditto it ,12 Shingles, 18 <nch. per M. 3 33 3 67
fr'laxfcec* pr. bush. So gel Ditto 2 feet, (i t>
flour, Siiperfuie pr. barrel 6 Duto 3 seer, rlrelTt d, 13
Common. 5 .67 Staves. Pipr pi. icoo 32
Sur best $ Whire o<*k liogfhead, - 20 33
Meal, Indian 2 ,52 Red Oak d-o. >9'50
■ ditto Rye, 2 67 Leogan 21 33
-Ship-fiufF pr. cwt* 440 x 67, Barrel
Fustic pr. ton, 20 Hcad-ng 25 33
Gin, Holland, pr. cafc, A 66 Ski,,i ' hc * P r - P ! «« 4 67
Do. pr. gall. 83 qo " lnks «> 4°
Clue, pr.cwt. fio 21 3j' ox, grt*y 40 .So
Ginger, white race, per ; ib. 12 lu'orrd t 2 o
Ditto, common 8 e 4 - *•
Ditto,ground pr.lb. ic rilncr? 23 67
Ginseng, 420 24 cars 3
Gunpowder,cannon, pr. q.cafk, 3 73 4 Racoons 27 60
Ditto, fine glared 4 Mulk-rabs u 20
Grain, Wheat pr. bust» 1.00 lic Beaver, pr. lb. €7 133
Rye 7 o Deei, in4iatr 20 30
al ? 35 ar >^-,Jerfey i 24gaJ.p.l)bl. 1
Indiin corn s fi -Carolina, 32 gall. 2
-&a»lev 1 i ,q Turpentine pr. bbl. 2
- Best shelled pr. Ib. j I obacco, J. River, bed ioolb. 4 3^
Buckwheat, perbufti. 40 inferior 333
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, ifjo |ro ' 4
American, pr. Ib. - Rappahannock 3 33
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 ' Coloured Maryland, 333 8
Hide-*, raw pr. lb. 9 I *>ar-k, 2 40
Hops Long-leaf 2 40
"Hog(head hoops, pr. M. ° ■ Eaftern-Iliore 2 2 23
ti , - T- 1 Carolina, new 27 q
Xbatgo, Frencli pc. lb. . 6 T . „ld, ' \ „
: 1 1 83 Tci ' H y son p'-n>- 9? . 28
Iro« (ad pr.ton, , 3J s3 Hyson Ikm, / 3 60
Iron Cill.ngj pr. cwt. 3 4 Souchong, ,0 o,
~l" P ' t0n ' 8» 66 Congo, | 3 so
2 -5 Bohca, o* '*6
rod, 173 33 TaU " W ' ,cnncrf ' .T" lb - 9
~ r ° d> 100 33 Tin pr. box, .Sfi?
J.",k, pr.cwt 4 4 \'c,digrcafc pr.lb. "60
Laid, hogs pr. lb. „ «h.. 3? 3 , 6,
Lead, mp.gipr. cwt. 553 K6 ? Varnilh, per gallon « 37
'"'T 1 . Wax, Bers pr.lb. ,5 ,y
" d "° "g 3 g 7 w hale-bonr, long pr.lb. 13 30
feather,foal, pr.lb. 17 2C Wine, Madeira,pr. pipe, 176 226
Lignum vita: pr.ton, I.ifbon 120 126
Logwood Teneriffe,pr. gallon -63
Mace pr.lb. ] Fayal £ 2
Afaefcarel, best pr.bbl, o Port pr. pipe I*3 33
- ■■ -f,-cond quality . Ditto in bottles, pr.doz. 4
Madder, bcfl pr. lb. <6 e0 Claret 4 6
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, iOO 12-67 Sherry pr.gall. a2c
•Mast spars ditto <0 Malaga 77 sic
MolavTes pr.gall. 1,1 COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Mnftard per. lb. g 7 On London, at 30 days, per £ .400 fieri. 466 2
f)our, in bottles, pr.doz. 1 c? c ~ 31 60 days 4'4
Vail*,B-i. tod. 1 id. and zoif, pi,lb. 10 7 T" at 9° aa V s 464
>J:»tmegs pr. lb. j 8 Amsterdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, 42
OU, I.infect, pr, gall. rr 90 days, 40
- Olive g- Government bills, drawn at 10 daya
figlu, at 42c per guilder.
Cfeclfe of fljeljttifel) #fates
SatupvDay, January i i, 1794.
UNITED STATES.
KNOXVILLE, Dec. 19.
Lift of prisoners, citizens of tl»e United
States, in the Creek nation, who are
treated as slaves and fold from mailer
to matter, at as high a price and in the
fame manner as negroes arc fold.
In the Covalegiee.—Mrs. Williams and
child—Alice Thompson of Naftiville—
Mrs. Carfray and child, of Nashville.
In the Hog villages.—Mr. Brown of
the district of Mero.
In the Clewvalley town.—Miss Scarlet.
In the White Grounds —Miss Wilson
of the aiiirict of Mero—and a boy and girl
whose names are not remembered.
In the Bolummies.—A boy five years
of age.
In the Big Tallaflee.—A boy 10 or 11
years of age—and a girl 7 or 8 years of
age.
In the Coofee town.—A boy ] y years
of age.
In the PocontalanafTee.—A boy J 2 or
13 years of age.
In the Oakfufka town A lad 1 c years
old.
In the Red Ground, —A man called
John,
In the Cafauders.—A boy wliofe age
and name are not known.
In Lfflic's town.—A young woman
who has been frequently threatened with
death, for refufmg to .cohabit with his
murdering rascally for>.
In towns net reeollefted. —Mi'. Crock
et, and a woman and child.
Our informant was lately a resident
among the Creeks, and fays he has heard
of many other citizens of the United States
in captivity among them, but can giye nei
ther the names nor description .of ihofe un
fortunate persons.
RICHMOND, Jan. ?
The Infpeftor of Flour in this oitv has
favored U6 with an account of all the fit:or
infpefted by him during the last year, by
which it appears that llie total amount is
24,332 barrels.
NEW-YORK, Jan. 7,
Yefterdav afternoon failed from this port,
the Ambiifcade and Normande French fri
gates, with the Carmagnole, privateer, on
a private expedition.
PHILADELPHIA DISPENSARY,
January 6, 179+.
At the annual meeting of the Contri
butprs held this day, at the Djfpenfary,
the following persons were elected Mana
gers for the present year, viz.
William White
Henry Hill
Samuel Pleafants
Lawrence Seckel
Robert Blackwell
George Meade
George Fox
John Field
Robert Smith
F. A. Muhlenberg
Robert Hare
Samuel P. Griffitts
JANUARY 9, 1794.
At a meet ing of the Managers of the
Difperfary held this day, the following
officers of the Inftitiition were appointed,
viz.
Attending Physicians and Surgeons-1—
Doctor Michael Leib
John H. Gibbons
John Porter
Philip S. Phyfick
Thomas James
James Woodhitufe.
Corrfnhing Phyftcians and Surgeons—
Doctor William Shippen, ji(n.
Adnm Knhn
Benjamin Rush
Thomas Parke.
Treasurer—John Clifford.
Apothecary—EJjenezer Hickling.
C?" Gmtlafun, in fafiejjion af'Svifcriptitn
papers for this GatuJe, are rcqatfled jo
tmnfmit -them to the E&tot'i Office.
[Whole No. 484.]
Continuation of Foreign Intel-
ligence, per tke Eliza, Ccpt.
Harrifon,frotn Liverpool.
LONDON.
October 2J-
British fubjefts in France
The hte decree of the National Conven
tion fSr the arrest of all the fubjefts of the
King cf Great Britain, and for the con
fifcation of their whole property, mult
make the public anxious to know who are
sub eft to this harsh and indifcriir.inate pu
nishment—This severe decree pafied the
Convention on the 19th day of the fit ft
month, and was dispatched to all the de
partments by extraordinary couriers, with
orders for its immediate execution all over
the Kepubiic.—Seals have been put upon
the papers of all who have been thus ar
retted.
The number of British fubje&s, who
are liable to fuffer by this decree, is efti
ir.ated r.t no ljcfs than ten or eleven thou
land, besides a vast uumber of merchants
and manufacture™, not resident in France,
who will fuller in their property !
The minister of justice has written to all
the cantoii6 of th? Republic, to have an
exact return of all the Englilh. It is to be
hoped that a little time and reflection will
induce the Convention to mitigate the fe
veritv of the decree.
TOULON, Sept. 25.
The French army that attacked Gener
al Clairfait near Maubeuge, amounted to
one hundred and thirty thousand men.
From before this army this able General
made a retreat, which had some circum
stances attending it which marked it as a
victory, as he took no less than twenty.
eight pieces of cannon,
The retreat of the Prince of Cobourg
across the Sambre was effected without
the loss of a man. The loss lay wholly
withOen. Clairfait's army.
At the village of l Waltignies, the Auf
trians were repuhed three different times
by the superior numbers of the enemy,but
they as regularly returned, and forced the
French to retire. The fourth time, how
ever, the Auftrians were obliged to give
way & retreat to a redoubt, evacuating'
at the fame time Eclaubes and Solveanirs.
In this bloody contest one Austrian regi
ment loft 700 men.
The day after the action with General
Ciairfait, 15,000 of the French army de
serted—a proof that they did npt relilh
the fer.vice into which they had been forc
ed.
LETTER
Of the Hereditary Prince of Orjncre to
the State* of Holland and Weft-FJauders.
" High ana 31 ghty L,i,rih,
" I have the hosor at pr-efcut to make
a report to your high fnightinefl<s,,that
the .enemy again attacked the
wood of Tillc.il. Soon after 4ay-ljreak
they attacked the advanced polio: s,*', in
a moment, tlie (ire became general along
the whole chain.—jßy -their great tuperio
rity, being;, according.to ,the ffgatt ps of
ficers who are prisoners, mgrc tl.au .four
thousand men ; they fucoeeded to
drive in the advanced polls,j biit loon al
ter, they were replied with jlo.fis, hy the
valour of our troous*Caloa_'l .Van Hjwke,
who commamiei! the 5. fey yjiitjbthe
wood wap -Ids immured cl i; 'ec(ly to
the la i Batl .been raifejd the
fame not halt idl
ed, and v.-;.'.'. 1 was t-'ir-dsd by a four
poui}»ler ;li ,by the feci-*'u: attack of
the enemy,"was the great
ell impetuoljfy, lie found that tl»M> gun
had he a carried off.
" I ir>\ ever, the enemy, who had alrea
dy made thcjnfelvet mailers of it, were rj
puifed a fecund time. But, :.s they were
resolved at all events tp get ppfld£jon of
the wood of TUleul, thty ma !e a third
.attack ; and, as they aivaaced time
R.w!:h ficih troops, our people much fa
t'.Hwd, with ruuch difficulty i.iltaiudd
tliefe repeated attacks. We had the
good fortune to rcjiulfc them a third time,
with charged b*yo' let seconded by the
ChafTcurs of Anfpack, and to r.main
s of the
" Nutwithftancing a ,cr<;fs fire of hea
vy artillery, with ball and grape {hot,
which the enemy made during tl.efe at
tacks, their loss was greater than ours,
which confided of 13 killed, and 19
wounded, whilit the French left more
than 60 dead on the field of battle, and
carried ofl" a great number with them.—
We have taken prisoners, a Chief of Bri
gade, a Captain, a Sub-L ley tenant,* and
twenty-four soldiers : A Lieutenant Co
lonel and Captain on their fide were
wounded.
" Colonel Van Haakc, whose conduct
'defc'rvis every pra'ie, extols much'the
vuior and perift verance of the troops who
v. cre engaged in this action, particularly
Of Lieutenant Colonel Monin de Roiig
nus, of the Walloon Grenadiers, and ot
Capt. de Harden, of the Chasseurs of
Anfpack, not knowing by name the other
officers whose bravery heebfervedon this
Occaixn.
" Head Quarters at Gentreuil, 14th
October, 1793,
(Signed)
" High and Mighty Lorils,
" I have the honor to inform your
High Mightinefies, that the French army,
t>y repoits 70 or Bc,ooo men llrong, un
der the command of general Jourdan, at
tacked yelterday, l JthO&ober, in three
columns, the Imperial Army had the ad
vantage the whole time, and pursued the
enemv into the hedges of Aveihee, behind
the villages of St. Val, St. Vaaft & Mon
clieaux ; but at the comn.enctnient of the
attfen, the ptfition of the left
•left favorable : however, even in-the even
ing, it attacked the enemy's right wing,
•which glib gained an advantage over them.
" We do not yet know 'lie!ofsoll,both
fides ; but it is certain, that the Imperial
ills have taken ten pieces of cannon, and
three hundred orifoners.
" Oa our fide, the enemy remained
quiet the whole day ; but in the evening,
they made a sortie against the Imperial
itfs, from their entrenched camp before
Maubeuge, which occasioned a brine can
nonade in that quarter; they afterwards
retired to their camp,
" Head Quarters at Gentreuil, 16th
Oftoher, 179j-
{ Signed'
From, the London Gazette.
Whitehall, Q&. 29, 1793
"7 he following
DECLARATION
ties been sent by, his Majefly's command
to the ccnmiaideri of his Meijrjfy'i
Fleets and Armies, employed
againfi Fkancf., and to his
Maje/ly's mintfttrs, re
ading at Foreign
THE eircumftances, in consequence of
which his Majesty has found himfdf en
gaged in a defenfive war against France
arc known already to aH Europe. The
objcdU which his Majesty has proposed to
J.'mfelf from the commencement of the
war are of equal notoriety. To repel an un
provoked aggreflion, to contribute to the
immediate defence of his allies, to obtain
for them and for himfelf a just indemni
fieation, and to provide as far as cir
cuwftance* will allow, for the future fe
curitv of Wis own fubje&B, and of all the
other nations of Europe ; these are the
points for which his Majesty has felt it in
cumbent on hiiu to employ all the means ( i
wliicli he derives from the resources of
h's dominions, frcm the zeal and affec- I
the unquef- |
more evident, how nu.ch the internal fi
tnation ot France obftrufts the conclufioi
and i
•nt
- *- - - 4 /' • -
an alone fulfil hw Majesty's juit and fa
utarv views, for the acccnljdiftitneiit of
hefc important objcfls, and for rcftoring
he general tranquility of Europe. His
Maicfty fees, therefore, with the utmost
fatiifaftiori, the profpeiV; which the pre
fer. rcircuniftances afford hint, os-accelera
ting the return of peace, hy making to the
well diffofed J>art us llie people o£ France,
" If'. F. Hereditary
" Prince of Orange."
SECOND LETTER.
IV. F, Hereditary
u Prince of Orange %
u Commandant General
Courts.
a more particular declaration of the prin
ciples which aniirate-him, of the objedts
to which his views are directed, add of
the conduct which it is his intention to
pursue. With refpeft to the prcfent si
tuation of affairs, the events of the war,
the confidence reposed in him by one of
the moll conlidetable cities ot Fiance,
and, above all, the wiih which is mani
fofted almoll utiiverfally in that country,
to find refuge from the tyranny, by
which it is now overwhelmed, render this
explanation on his Mujefty'a part a cel
ling and indispensable duty : —And his
Majelty feels additional latisfaction in
making such a declaration, from the hope
of finding, in other powers engaged with
him in the common canfe, sentiments and
views, perfectly conformable to his own.
From the firit period when his Moll
Cliriilian Majelly Louis the XVlth had
tailed his people around him, to join in
concerting meafurcs for their common
hnppinefa, the King has uniformly (hewn
by his condud the sincerity of his willies
fpr the success of so difficult, but, at the
fame time, so interelling an undertaking.
His Majelly was deeply afflicted with all
the misfortunes which eniued ; but par
ticularly when he perceived move and
more evidently, that measures, the con
sequences of which he could not disguise
from himfelf, mull finally compel him to
relinguilh that friendly and pacific fyllem
which he had adopted. The moment at
length arrived when his Majelly saw that
it was necessary for him not only to de
fend his own rights and those of his al
lies, not only to repel the unjull aggreflion
which he had recently experienced, but
that all the dearell interells of his people
imposed upon him a duty Hill more im
portant, that of exerting his efforts for the
preservation of civil society itfelf, as hap
pily eltablilhed among the nations of Eu
rope.
The designs which had been profefTed
of reforming the abides of the govern
ment of France, of eilablifhing personal
liberty and the rights of property on a
solid foundation, of fccuring to an exten
iive and populous country the benefit of
a wife legislation, and an equitable and
mild admiuiftration of its laws; all these
folutary views have unfortunately vanish
ed. In their place has succeeded a
system deltructive of all public order,
maintained by proscriptions exiles, and
confifcations without number, by arbitra
ry imprisonments, by mafl'acres, which
cannot be remembered without horror ;
and at length, by the execrable murder of
a just and beneficent sovereign, and of
the illustrious princess, who, with an un
(haken firmnefs, has (hared all the mis
fortunes of her royal consort, his pro- 1
trailed fgfferings, his cruel captivity, his
ignominious death. The inhabitants of
that unfortunate country, so long flatter
ed by promises of happiness, renewed at
the period of every frefti crime, have
found themselves plunged into an abyf6
of unexampled calamities; and neigh
bouring nations, instead of deriving a
new security for the maintenance of ge
neral tranquillity from the establishment of
a wife and moderate government, have
been exposed to the repeated attacks of a
ferocious anarchy, the natural and neces
sary enemy of all public order. They
have had to encounter aits of aggression
without pretext, open violations of all trea
ties, an unprovoked declaration of war ; in
word, whatever corruption, intrigue, or
violence could effect for the purpose so
openly avowed of fubvertmg all the insti
tutions of society, and of extending over
all the nations of Europe that confnfion
which has produced the misery of France.
. This state of things cannot exist in
France without involving all the surround
ing powers in one common danger, with
out giving them the right, without impos
ing it upon them as a duty, to Hop the
progress of an evil which exists only by
the fucceflive violation of all law and all
property, and which attacks the funda
mental principles by which mankind is held
in the bonds of civil society.—His majesty
by no means disputes the right of France
to reform it's daws. It never would have
been his wifti to employ the influence of
external force with refpeft to the particu
lar forms of government to be eftahlilhed
in an independent country. Neither has
he now that with, excepting so far as such
interference is become>eflential to the se
curity and repose of other powers. Under
these circumstances, he demands from
France, and he demands with justice, the
termination of a fvftem of anarchy, which
has no- force but fgr the purposes of niif-
chief, unable to discharge the p-imary du
ty of all government, to reprtfs the dif
•orders, or to punilh the crimes which are
daily iiicreafing in the interior of the coun
try, but disposing arbitrarily of the pro
perty and blood of the inhabitants of
France, in order to disturb the tranquility,
of other nations, and to render all Europe
the theatre of the fame crimes and of the
fame misfortunes. The King demands that
some legitimate and stable government
ihould be ellabliihcd, founded on the ac
knowledged principles of universal justice,
and capable of maintaining with other
powers the aceuflomed relations of union
and of peace. Mis majesty wiflies ardent
ly to be enabled to treat for the re-efta
blilhment of general tranquility with such
a government, exercising a legal and per
manent authority, animated with the wi(h
for general tranquility, and pofleffing pow
er to enforce the observance of it's engage
ments.—The King would propose none
other than equitable and moderate condi
tions, not such as the expenses, the rifques,
and the facrificesof the war might juitifv,
but such as his majesty thinks himfelf un
der the indifpenfible neceflity of requiring,
with a view to these confederations, and
still more to that of his own security, and
of the future tranquility of Europe.
His majesty desires nothing more sin
cerely than thus to terminate a war which
he in vain endeavoured to avoid, and all
the calamities of which, as now experienc
ed by France, are to be attributed only
to the ambition, the perfidy, and the vio
lence of those, whose crimes have ill voir ed
their own country in misery, and disgrac
ed all civilized nations. ft
As his majesty has hitherto been com
pelled to carry on war againit the people
of France co'Jeftively, to treat as enemies
all those who fuffer their property and
blood to be lavilhed in support of an un
just aggression, his majesty would fee with
infinite fatlsfa&ion the opportunity of
making exceptions in favor of the well
difpofed inhabitants of other parts of
France, as he has already done with res
pect to those of Toulon.
The King promises, on his part, the
suspension of holtilities, friendfhip, and (as
for as of events will allow, of
which the will of man cannot dispose) fe
curity and protection to all those who, by
declaring for,a monarcliical government,
(hall (hake off the yoke of a sanguinary
anarchy, of that anarchy which has broken
all the molt sacred bonds of society, dis
solved all the relations of civil life, violat
ed every right, confounded every duty ;
which uses the name of liberty to exer
cifc the most cruel tyranny, to annihilate
all property, to seize on all poffeflions,
which fpunds its power on the pretended
consent of the people, and itfelf carries fire
and sword through extensive provinces for
having demanded their laws, their religion,
and their lawful Sovereign.
It is then in order to deliver therofelves
from this unheard of opprefiion s to put.
an end to a fyltem of unparalleled crimes,
and to r?ftore, at length tranquility to
France, and security to all Europe, that
his majesty invites the co-operation of the
people of France.
It is for theft objects that he calls upon
them to join the standard of an hereditary
monarchy not for the purpose of deciding,
in this moment of dilorder, calamity, and
public danger, o„n all the modifications of
which this form of government may here
after be susceptible, but in order to unite
themselVes once more under the empire of
law, of morality and of religion ; a,nd to
secure at length to their own county, ex
ternal peace, domestic tranquility, a real
and genuine liberty, a wife, moderate, and
beneficent government, and the uninter
rupted enjoyment of all the advantages
which can contribute to the happiness and
prosperity of a great and powerful nation.
Coj/grefs of the United States.
Nonfi of ReprefenlatVues.
Friday, January 10.
Mr. Smilie presented the petition of
Ann- Ladley, praying compensation for
the services of her late husband, during
the late war—trad and referred to the Se
cretary of the Treaiury.
Mr. Madison presented the petition of
George Taylor, jun. chief clerk in the of
fice of the Department of State, praying,
for sundry reasons therein stated, an aug
mentation of hi» compensation—read and
referred to a special committee, confiding
of Mr. Madison, Mr. Foftcr and Mr.
Griffin.
Mr. Lyman moved that all the petiffons
on the fame fubjeft, be referred to the
fame committee. —Agreed
Mr. Dexter presented the petition of
Sarah Parker, widow of Lieut. Col. Par-
ker, who was wounded at the battle of
Bunker"s-Hill, and died in Boston Goal,
praying that the pension allowed to the
widows ttnd orphans of other deceased of
ficers roav be extended to her—laid on the
table.
The petition of James and William
Smith presented by Mr. Baldwin, was
read, and with the accompanying docu
ments, referred to a feleft committee.
Some other petitions were read and re
ferred.
It being moved to go into a committee
of the whole on the eltimate-of appropri
ations.
Mr. Giles after suggesting several rea
sons in favor of separating the items in the
estimate appropriated for the support of
the civil lilt, and clifcharging the current
expenses of government, from the articles
delignated for other purposes, moved that
the House (hould now take up the rrfolu-
tipn agreed to by the committee of the
whole yellerday, and make that the sub-
je£t of a bill by itfelf.
Mr. Nicholas supported this motion—
he urged several conlidcrations arifhig
from the situation of the members— : ?.n.i
the embarraflment which would attend the
deliberations of the House from blending
so many dill! net obje&s in urn kill.
It; being remarked that the next article
in the estimate was so conneifted with the
preceding, that it was necessary it Ihouid
be included in the fame bill.
Mr. Nicholas withdrew his fsccind to
the motion—and the 'House went into
committee of the whole—Mr. Trumbull
in the chair.
Mr. Boudinot moved a refblution co
vering the next article in the eilimate-—
The Item, providing for the salaries of
clerks to the Loan-Office, being objected
to —it was paflid over for the present.
This part of the eftinlate being gone
through with, Mr, Giles moved that the
committee flipuld rife—this motion Was
leconded by Mr. Nicholas, and supported
by Mr. Madison.
The resolution moved by Mr. Boudmot
providing that the ftim of t0*,693 dollars
and 43 cents, be appropriated for sundry
purposes was agreed to.
The committee then rose, and the House
took into consideration the two rifoluti
ons, and adopted the fame. '
Mr. Giles then moved that a conWmttee
ihouid be appointed to prepare and bring
in a bill agreeable to the two resolutions ;
this motion was agteed to and a conuWttee
appointed accordingly.
Mr. Boudinot then moved a tefolution,
the obiect of which is to direst the Secre
tary of the Treasury to lay before the
House further information refpe&irig the
Loan-Office s; this was agreed to,
Mr. Nicholas of the committee appoint
ed to examine and report, on the.comiden
tial communications of the.Preiident of
the United States, relative to Algiers,
brought in a report, which was laid on the
table.
Mr. S. Smith of the committee on the
memorial of the Relief-Committee of Bal-
timore, presented a report which was read
—he moved that it (hoidd be read a second
time, and referred to the committee of
the whole.
Mr. Smith gave a fuccinft account of
the situation of the refugees from Cape-
Francois, and the great burthen thrown
on the citizens of Baltimore, in conse
quence of the deilitute and didreffed con
dition of these refugees—burthens so great,
as he presumej 1 , loudly called for the inter
position of government —Mr. Smith de
tailed the progress of the benevolent exer
tions of the citizens of Baltimore on this
a Retting appeal to their humanity, from
which it appears hat the unfortunate peo
ple had been relieved by the rnoft extrnor
dinary ads of benevolence and compassion
—that the inhabitants of that town had
for more than fix months supported this
numerous body of people, and fumiflied
them with money, cloaths and the necessa
ries of life ; it is hardly poflible to do jus
tice to the affecting narative of Mr. Smith
—fuffice it to fay, that a greater scene
of misery and distress was hardly ever be
fore witnessed, nor a more noble and
prompt display of the fined feelings of the
human heart exhibited than in the relief
afforded by the citizens of Baltimore.
It was then voted that the pe'ition be
again read, a* referred to a fommittee
of the whole.A motion was made to go into commit
tee of the whole iimmediately.
Mr. Forreit fujSported the motion.
Mr. Parker observed that he was not
ready to enter into a consideration of the
lubjeft ; he house that there
are joo of the refugees in and about Nor
folk ; the people there had made very ge
nerous contributions for their relief. The
legislature of Virginia had also granted
them aid ; he thought the fiibjedk ought
to be taken up on genera! principles, and
if any thing is to be done by government
tlie circumllanccs of these person s when
ever they are, if aillreffed, ought to be
taken into consideration.
Mr. Murray replied to Mr. Parker, by
obferytng that if there were as many per
sons of the defeription under confidtra
tiort in Norfolk, as the gentleman stated,
and the legislature of Virginia has grant
ed them relief, the preemption was, that
that relief was fufficient—no application
is received from that place for the intcrpo
filion of government. But the prelent
cafe is different, an immediate application
is made ; the unfortunate perlons must be
reduced to extreme misery if no provision
is made ; that provided by the legislature
of Baltimore extends only to next month.
Some conftil utibnal objections were
made to entering into the bulinefs—thefe
were replied to by some general remarks
oa the fupsriority of the claims of huma
nity to all precedents whatever.
Kir. Madison remarked that he prefnm
ed no arguments, no efforts of oratory
were necelTary to excite emotions of be
nevolence in the mind of any member of
the house towards these unfortunate fugi
tives. He had no doubt that the feelings
of every man were alive to a sympathy for
their situation, but he remarked that the
government of the United States is a de
finite government, confined to fpecified
objefis—it is not like the state governments
whole powers are more general. Charity
is no part of the • legislative duty of the
government ; it would pu/zle him to lay
his finger -on any part of the constitution
which would authorise the government to
interpose in this business ; the report of
. the. committee he observed, involved this
coDllitutional question—Whether the mo
ney of our constituents can be appropriat
ed to any other than fpecific purposes.
He concluded his remarks by feying,
that tho' he was of opinion that the relief
, contemplated could not be granted in the
Vvv.y proposed ; yet he supposed a mode
might be adopted which would answer the
purpose wiihout infringing the constituti
on. He adverted ta the measures which
had taken place uude'r the dir ettion of the
executive.
Mr. Nicholas concurred in fenUment
with Mr. Madison. He considered the
constitution as defining the duty of the le
gislature so expressly, as that it left them
no option in the present cafe. *
Mr. Murray observed that as the states
individually cannot prevent persons from
landing on their (hores ; as the regulations
of tonnage, commerce, and foreign inter
course with nations are exclusively vetted
in the general government,he inferred that
it must inevitably follow, that the govern
ment can with perfect confiftencyaffordre
lief to those who may come in circum
flances of unavoidable necessity and dis
tress. This he considered as firm and
constitutional ground.
Mr. Boudinot supported the question
on constitutional grounds, he in (lanced
several cases which had occurred and might
occur, in which relief must be neceffariiy
granted, and that without occasioning any
doubt of the constitutionality of the bufi
ne& ; fueh as granting pensions, afford
ing relief to Indians, supporting prito n
ers, &c. He alluded to the circumstance
of the alliance between the United States
;<«d France, the connexion between the
citizens of the United States and that
country, &c.
Mr. Dexter stated sundry obje&ions
from the constitution. It willnot be pre
tended, he supposed, that the grant of mo
nies, on this occasion, was for the general
welfare, it is merely a private charity, he
was in favour of going into a committee
on the fubjeft, but wished a short delay,
that he might revolve the question more
fully in his own mind.
Mr. Giles enlarged on the unconftituti
onality of the power proposed to be ex
ercised by the legislature, The scope of
his argument turned on the force of an a
mendment to the constitution, which pre
cludes Congress from the exercise of pow
ers not expressly delegated. He hoped
feme expedient would be fallen upon, in
the coe.-fe of the difcuflion, withont in
volving a constitutional question as to its
legality.
His wifti wai to postpone the business.
iudden impiilfes, he remarked, often led
to aflumptions of power, which were un
warranted, and which afterwards acquired
a force extremely detrimental to the pub
lip welfare.
Mr. Murray observed that the genera]
welfare was involved in relieving any part
of the community burthened by an una
voidable neceflity. An imperious neces
sity has imposed a great burthen on the
Hate of Man-land ; any other part of the
community might have been exposed to
the fame call of humanity, and a similar
burthen thrown on them. As part of the
great whole, the general welfare is moll
undoubtedly promoted by dividing the
burthen.
Mr. S. Smith stated as a cafe in point,
the relief granted and sent to the people
of St. Domingo, on the firft infnrreftion
of the negroes.
Mr. MaJifon, in reply to Mr. Boudi
lot who had Hated several cases as in point
qbferved that thoft cases came within the
law of nations of which this government
has express cognizance, the support of
prisoners, in a cafe provided for by the
law of nations, but the present question,
he remarked, could not be considered ia
any such point of view.
The motion for going into a committee
of the whole immediately, was at length
withdrawn, and the report laid on the ta
ble.
A mefiage from the President of the li
nked States, refpedling the appointment
of a fuperintendant of the ifl'ues of sup
plies was taken into coufideration, and re
ferred to a special committee to report on
the expediency of the appointment of fuc'n
an officer.
Aiijourned till Monday.
C? It should have been noticcd in the
minute of WednefdSy's proceedings, that
Mr. Giles moved to ge into committee of
the whole, on the enquiry into the tranf
a&ions of the Treasury Department—
this motion was fupei ceded by the preflure
of other bulinefs.
For the Gazsttt of the United States.
Rrfo'.utions of the Democratic Society, Con-
tinued.
Ap.ticuE 1.
Resolved, That the experience both of
France and America, has evinced the ab
surdity of governments within govern
ments ; as. they are calculated merely to
crate an encreafing aristocracy by multi
plying titles, places, and pensioners, who
prey like leaches, upon the vital blrtod of
the body politic, and by the numbers and
a daily increasing strength threaten every
where a total deftru&ion of the principles
of liberty and equality. That the misfor
tunes of ancient Greecc and of France,
may soon be experienced, if parts of the
grand union are allowed in future, to en
a& laws hostile to the views of freely
constituted Supreme Law-givers of the
general government of the Republic of
America—Therefore resolved, that this
society do recommend to their brethren,
throughout the uuion, to consult on a
mode by which, to abolish the ridiculous
diftinftion of States within States, with
all their absurd trappings and appendages,
saving only such as may be conducive to
the Grand Union of a free government —
One and indivisible.
Article 11.
Resolved, That as a war between Re
publican states, will cause great triumph to
the monarchical league—Therefore, a peace
Ihould be concluded between this republic
and that of Algiers, ct all events.
Article LII,
That this society, do recommcnd in the
moil ardent and pressing terms, the speedy
abolition of (lavery, throughout the union ;
a principle so difgraceful, and so dangerous
to. all existing liberty and equality, ought
by no means, to be fuffered to exist for a
moment, in any free country.
ExtraS from the minutes of the Society.
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 11.
Abftraft of further intelligence by the
late arrival at New-York. The Combi
ned forces at Toulon for the security of
the outer haijbor have b«en obliged to
erect a fort on\n out post.
By - the proceedings of the National
Convention, it appears that a bloody bat
tle was fought between -the Patriots and
Insurgents on the 9th October, in which
the latter were totally defeated, and their
Army of Twcnly-Tboufanrt Men, disper
sed over an extent of Country of 30
Leagues "circumference —That the 28 sec
tions of Bourdeaux, had lent a deputa
tion to the Convention informing them at
their approbation of the Revolutions of
the 31ft May and 2d June —and advi
sing them to Hand firm at their poll.
That the army of the Republic entered
Lyons without dii'order, and crowned its
glory bv ails of humanity—No person
had reason to complain of any injury—
General Dagobert at the head of a re
publican army has entered Spain—and
taken the town of Campredon.—The Spa
ni(h Army is in the moll dismal fitua
ti6r:, afraid even of attempting a retreat.
The patriotic municipalities are re-clta
blil'ned in Lyons—the Popular Society
re-instated—the disarming began, and a
committee of vigilance appointed—the re
bels reduced to 300, who are enclosed in a
wood by 6000—a military commission has
entered on its office—and four aids-de
camp ordered for execution—several cf the
chiefs of the Cou'nter-Revolutionifts have
destroyed themselves.
LONDON.
London Gazftti Extraordinary.
WHITEHALL, Oaober 23,
The dispatches of which the following
are extracts and copies, were received on
Sunday lalt, at the olEce of the Right
Honorable Henry Dundas his Majelty's
principal Secretary of State for the home
department.
Toulon, September 27; 1793.
Sir,
Since I closed my dispatch to you this
day, the firft division of Neapolitan troops
came into the harbor, confuting of two
thousand men, all in perfect health, con
veyed by two (hips of seventy-sour guns
each, two frigates and two sloops :—they
have been eleven days on their pajTir>«.
Two thousand more treops w_ rt to fail in
three days after that of t [ ie ; r departure,
and a third 'iTviutni alio of 2000 men were
feu in twenty days from the day on
which the firft division failed. After the
confident manner in which I have ventured
to aiTure you that no impreffiou was like
ly to be made on our potts, inadequately
garrifonedas they were by our original
small body, I need hardly express the com
fortable l'ecurity I feel with our last rein.-
foi cements.
I have the honor to be, See.
MULGRAVE.
The squadron under Adm. Gell have
been delayed by contrary winds, I have
the opportunity of informing you, in ad
dition to my last dispatches, that on the
28th inft. the firft division of the Neapo
litan troops dilembarked under the ccm
mand of Brigadier-General Pignatelli.—
The troops are in perfect health, and are a
very fine body of men, and well appoint
ed.
The detachment of the King of Sar
dinia's troops consists entirely of grena
diers and chafleurs, and are of the best of
his Sardinian majefty*s troops. I have great
confidence in the zeal and willingness ex
prefTcd, both by the officers and soldiers
of this corps.
It is with extreme concern that I have
to inform you of the loss which the fei vicc
has sustained by the death of lieut. Newn
ham of the navy; to whose private and
piofeflional merits, the sincere and marked
regret of the Spanish as well as Eoglifh
officers, who were witnesses of his able &
aflive conduct, bears the moil honoura
ble testimony. His wound, which was
not at firft judged to be dangerous, took
an unfavourable turn, which proved fatal
in a very (hort period.
I have the honour to be, &c.
MULGRAVE,
Right, hon. Henry Dundas, &c. &c.
PRICE or STOCKS.
Philadelphia, January ii, 1794.
6 per cents, 18f
3 ditto, los to io/l.
Deferred, 11f
U. S. Bank, I 2 per cent, advance.
N. A. ditto, 20 ditto ditto.
Pennfrlvaoia do. 7 ditto ditt».
M.iuja AN rONir 1 rK,
The fate of this woman, like that of her
hulband, mult excite no small degree of re
gret and indignation in the furrtfunding
nations; especially in Germany, where her
relations have power and influence. If
any thing can allay this re" -t or "suppress
the sympathy of honrlt liear.s, it is the
charaiter of Maria, who, it is said, indulg
ed herfelf in base and lcandalous crimes—
In these ferocious times, what may not be
cxpe£ted in France,' where government is
prottrated, and the demon of jealousy,
with an iron red in one hand, and the
Guillotine in the other, stalks uncontioled,
and thins the population of that dillraded
country! Amer. Minerva-
The American Schooner Britania, Bar
nam, from Bollon to Bourdeaux, is taken
and carried into Weymouth, by the Achil
lis privateer.
The Betley, a new (hip from Philadel
phia, bound to Cape Francois, is taken by
a Spanilh packet and carried into Corunna.
By a lift of the names and cures of the
patients in the Pennsylvania Hospital, it
appears that there have been admitted
within the year ending the 27th of the
fourth month 1793. two. hundred and thir
teen difeaftd persons, amongst whom were
seventy-one lunatics, or such as are disor
dered in their understandings, and dis
charged as under.
88 ' I
Irregular behaviour, 4 I
Died, t6 A
Rcmairu 4th month 27th,
1793. Si
Cured,
Relieved,
Taken by their friends,
Incurable,
Eloped,
of whom 15 poor, & 38 on pay
American Philosophical Society.
JANUARY 3, 1794.
At the annual ele&ion of Officers, the
following persons were duly appointed,
Prcjident—Dr. David Rittenhoufe,
Vice-Prcfdcnls —Mr. Thomas
Dr. John Ewing, Dr. William Smith.
StcreUr:-:—• (Nicnolas (-own, (u.
WiiiissH Barton, Dr. Sairuit>Magav)r,Mr.
Robert Patterfon.
Tretsfurcr —Mr. John Vaughan.
Curators—Dr. Benj. S- Barton, Mr.
Char'es W. Peale, Dr. Casper Wiitar.
Ceunfellors fur three years—Dr. John
Andrews, Mr. James Davidfon, Mr. An
drew Ellicot, Dr. S. P. OriiHtts, Mr. Jo
nathan Williams.
Married it Providence, Mr. William
F. Macee, merchant, to Miss Susan
nah Nichtincale.—Mr. Jaykel Da
na, to Miss Kksjah Warnkr.
at Coventry, Mr. Benjamin
D. Greenr, to Miss Esther Bucklin.
To the Creditors of the French Republic.
ff?" SUCH persons as are Creditors of
the Republic of France, forfupplies fold
to their cummiifioners in the Weft-India
i(lands, are requested to meet at the City-
Tavern, on Thurfdav evening the i6t(i
inft. to consider of the best means of mak
ing application for payment of their rs
fpeftive debts.
SHIP NEWS.
The following vejfels are adv-rtifed for dif
ferent ports in the United Slates, in Cure'.
Liverpool Advertiser of OS. 31,1793
For New-York, the American brig Eli
za, David Harding, matter; the (hip Pal
las, Lulhington Goodwin, matter, to fail
in ten days; the American (hip Sifters,
William Provooft, matter, will tail on the
loth November.
For Norfolk. Virg. the Amerlc;':i snow
Venus, Alexander M'Connel, matter, to
fail in iodav*.
Want! a New-York, Cliar'ef
ton, BaldnjMHHffiiladelphia, the Ame
rican brig Batton, (naftiir,
mult fail Ift of November,
Capt. HaDowel), in the (hip Eetfev, ar
rived at Providence, (R. L) from Mar
tinico. He that the brig Tri
ton,Capt. Ridgaway, of Phihdelphia, hii
been captured by the Rqchaiipbcatk-privt
tett, aud carried ia iberej t'.e
Captain-had rai.foined bee for one bitna^i
213h
Company
r
NJOTICE ii I Tel V jjiv'eiV lu clue
■>' i'»c li-'ti-iuce C'itfttPT \ <t'
A
«ora i>a\-e i c
c
ii I'.c r
init r-' rif ; -,1-' '■» t ;■> rc . , j. i
P"-' ! ; ' C V : >
. i'»v, f ■ < i
i ft I'n
r'ic {'>'!" . i £•- u.t, •,w . < .«■
ri? »' < w cv. ra'td . r 1 ( w <) ■■ I'i
r ri? S' oi/k'i' !«i •>, "i 1!k c c i-- '• v v
;.t t i. 11l '.i
... ,n » i .«> •-11 ; •
=, iMUi.t-
itrccr, at an.' time niter t' e
e .) o .n«.
F.8.-A'LV'.EH H.-r/. .Hi).
la■«.
Department,
f reafury
To ; i c>; o lu-r. i.v £'.v , . lut « t .. n ; <,!.iv. >.i
i \ b »"i M h.' (/•■'"Ut M -'.c
fi[ ific Ti \u ' •.. i- M ; i 6 i'. "i F> v t.rx:
ii! 1 II.C, ; t.| iU- iopi-iv <i* .11! Krtt nk
limv l c ,i -'m l !!.' '!) ;>-cf -i
f v. T> ' O <
■ i;n h> i• 'te. iin ni; n
C , lor 1 1 ' ]•' c - u.. nb tv i
i). Iw ic':, -n Nrw-Jv'ifcy ;
Iphia,' ")
r, > in Pcnnfylvdn
At \* :>
A' Ph 'a •
At L in
A. !l<-a i-
*! hj i jti !i.-. hr fr.v >! aic to c _r>f)ft of t' c
following iirt vi/.
On - pound ot bread >i flour,
O-ie pound of beef, 01 -J of a pound of poik,
H H «j»< ruirn, brandy 01 uhifity,
One (jii.i't of fall }
Two q<Mru »>f A-inrwrf
, , , ° > uer too rations,
Cn pcHuin W candles )
) '•!. q
This day is pubhfhscU
By MATHEW CAREY,
f Price a quarter doilnr)
A ;Vri ac-;6u;it of ALCmT.JIS,
i i 8 Y'-- !-: • t s
C n.l■ i' .1 ri( I r j'Kni ni ti:
eel 'i ■ _rv • h<- ma • • * ,?i <.! C' ft iri' ■ ! ('i.- in
nrtr!:hiii 'r vr» j I i* •< :• S jut,
f : i inc , l-.mrldM-l, H ill.'iifl. V'l.u-i*, ant" < th<r
pO vt*r jrfti;so ht' i ■ >nt i m i«i [ h,n o! liar,
ha ■ ■ ir.<! i .ic in>. Ii i :ic I - .:?) :.c" Ch .r) < j
V. I'h • fir' TtH it: >r ; a r-n ».>c>v -f
ihc oi -•( the n> :vj>- h'-wi'cn ALGIERS
an I ilt.' iINIHO > f A ft*.
ADVERTISEMENT.
Virginia \drifi-mktrhn o. >7> .*i)cc :8. 17^3.
for .• /. /;,
A Valuable Tract of LAND,
in this couniv. • nntW'niir- »b<>..l c>cbj
hunci red aer s, one (
;.h o; v.-r.icii Ts "rS&s*.
*•/,»! other three-
I t ,v. with oak,
hu S'-'y Iru'
T J ;
; i"t: till a<:rf HritVliy. °n Yc°-
Ct/1.'.C0 T'iVi I . .i!)D(K 'hrC'.' Uiii i'roin liif P'Vt).
Tin r is "U M « two ilO:y I'iuU
rnrk
.vt'h four rc-'M'- ? p.fT-'uc
tl '\t Irl'ivr of cl'iffs ; a k»trb<"n,
.'•lid 'ue- iiMifi.HV om.hoi.f > It h-u urrha-ris
op '''cs, -nu! is w II wa»'-»c3
bv m.iiiv it 4'v r '-l tprin■• <. T'v u -ins "-ay he
kn wn on "n to 'he H 'jmt.ihk- |OHN
HK VIH, tn Pi".:l 'tUI hid, or 10 the fjbfcnber,
I" on lb;.- prt in Ic>.
!OH>! r>o v
)in. to
George Bringhurfts
COJCH-MJKF.R,
In Mulberry ( Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the EjSilcopal burying-
£rno"d,
r T~ , AKES thir opportunity of returning his
1 grateful thank's to his former employer's,
aiuj rfcquefting t' eir future favors, as well as
thole of the pußU'c to "general.
He continues to make and repair at tlie
(hojteft notice, all kinds of plea r nre carriages,
fnch as coaches chariot', phaetons with aiid
without crane neck*, coachees, chnifes. kitte
reens, wind for fuHCeys and chain, artd harness
of every cfefcriptloi, in the seated and neucft
iafhion now prevailing in the United States*
And an he has a quantity of the belt feafor.ed
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the !edoubt but he \vifi he able to give
fatitfa-Tion To tfio c who pleyTe to employ him
He has for sale, several carriages alnnift
finiflied. 'uch as coachees, an Iralin windibr
chair, hung on steel "firings, a Hgl.t phaeton tlir
»mc or two liorfes, and a l'ulkey with a liillifig
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, r794 ra&t3m
Excellent 'CLARET,-
In and »n cases of 50 bottles each.
A L S O,
A few cases Champagne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In prpe'j, fto£fYi cad's and quar'er calks,
FOR SALE TJT
111, S<
Jin. 2, i 794,
Bank of the
r nited States.
VfOTIOF, »« herein* given, that the«e will
i.N be t!\p Bark, after the sixteenth
irft-.tnt, tolV'C Stockholder* or their rcprefcn
l,rivCi, duly au iiorized f> rfen dollars and
f.fty cents f>*eirh C; «re, being the dividend
declared for tie haft lix months. «
Bv Order,
JCiIN K£AN ?
Cathier.
CASTE L L I,
hit Han Stay and Habit-Maker,
L' KClO^ftAG£D by several L dies ot Phi
-Lj iaaSipbia, now in New-York, lias emov*
ed tVoni .hence to this city, in Co6per'» Ourt>
N j. 35 nortli lick- of Mulber) ftveer, between
Front and Second; where all kinds ot'Stay's
are inuoe—as Italian shape, FreuCh corlc;,
Ei\gli/h, Silk run , Riding, Suckling (lays, &c.
, t 1 :i
c *- >'
i;»<■ n:■* v <
AJ'rt, Ladis Habits; Surtouts, Gowns, urtd ail
kuxfc v 4 diefles tor ball', c<>mj>l. ted in thfe
ler ixiy
Mtweft and liioit f. flnon
Any ladies in New-York and Charleston,
who wish to emplov liirn, ai d will be
plea ed to fend rfieTr mea'urefc fl*all have their
uo k rinifhed with the utmolt neatr.cfs and
>eoet.uy
(iiipui tii
N. £>. Si! i! Curt'!: has an &f]«rtnictit of
t'.id « sn.\ic f*x i tci fclL
Jun. 7
DIMNGte".',! v i;inns corniner.
1.3 Cia. c -ii r.i, :ip.d that .i! n,ii kii;.i.
f "(■ ;rci>'C(.] ic.'jlivr Ii 111 C I.UPC ihonid be rf-
voked, nd public noticc of 11 g vcn, to prevent
pny pofliMr miitake ; I, the fubfenber, do here
by nj«ke known to all fevjrojii it may concern,
that all powers and letters of attorney, ot every
niluie and extent, granted by the to any per(bd
or jjerfons, prior to thfc ill day of July last, to
a£t for me or iu my name in Amekica, art re-
vjkid and made vo-ri
New-Yo'k, Jan. x, 179
NORRIS-COURT,
Back of the Nov. 'L bravy;'b:tvi'ccn Che/hut
F.
ESHfcCTFULLY infornu his friends and
AV the public ill general, that he ei.miuues
t rvying on the hufinef* of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewifc, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or wiudo\v-ftuirter<;,ilone in the molt
elegant mannei, with dispatch.
■tnaic c>l that
Orders from the coftntry will be thankfully
rtre' veil, and dujjr. attended to.
»?cembsr 3-., fltf
MONEY *boi rowed Ibsifi-d, recounts (to
•ed or colleeKd, employees fuiic«4 with
doir.efticS, tyoufc roon:b< -jf (i ing am i lodging
wn'.eo, left or procured — fold in 's, manner's,
».•: ' iTir»a men's way, lands anA'claims on rlic
'-he turn
f ilificfetfcl gr.>n'cii by the
public, and in" '■» ,c p»pf» monies ;
noics of hand, bill*. >'Hlf „-d m.>, W rs, vith
<>r witi).»uJ cupofis—iiv.ugSi, frv<.
at No. 8, In fouih SfXTh ftiett-,
Markct-ftrrct bv FRANCIS WHITE*
Who uanla&s bufincfs in th« public; offives(or
country people and others, by virtue of-a pow
er of attorney,*oi by peitonal application.
December 11
\ T the request of a number -of friends,
jTx. piopofes publilning The Independent
(STreETTfifiit, twice a week, viz, WedneldaJs
and Saturdays— tocomfuer.ce in January next,
if fufficient encoerageir.ent offers
It will be publiflied on Paper and Typdfe
equal to its present apjVeatantfe. The lub
fcription dollars per ann.
Advertisements npt exceeding a fqHars,
will be inserted 4 times for I dollar—every
continuance one fifth of a dollar. Th'o'e itf
ceeding a fqiiare, in the fame proportion.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths Ss? Jewellers,
No. 42,
HAVE Ff)R SALE,
An tie faint Mforimeht of
SILVER 10 PLAtED WARE,
JEWELLERY y fine CUTLERY,
Which thev will dispose of on the ino'l rea
sonable te jms. Deviccs in han, Miniatures
fetl, and every tiling iu fctie gold and filvfcr
ALL persons having kny demand aeainfl
the Estate and EffeiSs ol" Mrs. WARY
■SINDKEY, widow, late of FroHlcford, Ox
ford township, in the State of Peimfylvania,
deceased; are defrred to produce their ao
counts to Jacob Leshe* and Willi am Creed,
(in Frankford, afnrelaid,) Executors and Ad
miliiTlfator'i of the above in oider forTettle
nielrt. And -whoever is indebted to (aid Ef
lau, &c. arc requeued to make paVhient to
the aforefaid Adminiftratoi's, on or'before the
16th of March, 1794, or they will be dealt
with acc
VAUGttAN,
j-ftrte:
Stack Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-ftrcet, New-York.
THE SubfciiW infnding 10 confine himlklf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE cp
STOCKS on COMMISSION, h<gs leave to ol
! r his fcivlctMo his triemU m,4 others, in (he
line ol a S-tiek Broker. Thole who may
lo favor hun with their bufmefs, m„y d'pti.d
upon having it rranfafted with ibe uinicft fide
lity ar.d dtfpatch.
Orders from PSihJelphia, HKTIor* or any
olbjrpattof the I'mtrd Stale", ■will h. ((riffly
attended to. LEON ARD BLEtCKER.
NOTICE
JAMES GREENLEAF.
and Walnut Streets.
George Rutter,
the in (fit canal?, and
E. Oswald,
No. 156, M irlcct-Sti eer, South,
STTUTfc SfeCOND-STRK'ET,
[11ft Imported,
From I.ONDOH, Dublin andGusaorr,
A-id now opening for tale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market ftrcet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
N£ V Annual Regilterfor 1792
Euro,xean Magazine lor the firft fix
months of I 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manthelter lociety, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and I'pirit
on ohriftianit.y
Difnev's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient gedgraphy
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty, a collection of efiays
Varieof Prussia's works
Calm obfervet—byMackintofh
Ruuell's ancient and modern Europe
I-anghbrne's Plutarch
Elegant extra&s, fnperbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Brian's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend > s travels in Spain
TaflVs Jerusalem Slivered
SmeUie's tranflatidn of BufFon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's hlftory of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in g vols.
Coriofiiies of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Do\y's history of Hlrid'cutitl
Sketches of tftfe Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's dsffcription of Kentucky
Pi efent state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Iludfon's Bay
Preston 011 masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Nec,ker on executive power
KiflVs of Secundus
G&1 l&fr/ '6fp'oft raits
Volney's ruins of empires
dlw
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downjuaa's iiifancy
Adair's history of American Incians
BSnington onmateriallfm fend
advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
"Chanson's-life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
riptien of China
Mtirpjhy's translation of 1 acitus
on p'ol ticaljnftice
Gazetteer of France, 3 3,
Helvetiws on man
Kaimes's (ketches of the history of man
Liberal opini<s£% or the history of Benignas
Mawe's £5 Nonary
'Noble's memoirs "bf the GiotoweH famHy
f-'la.yhovjfi? dictionary
flereriqs of fol'itude
or ::e£ol
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
SVa'clc ho life's history of the bibi"
Wat foil's 1 fie of* Philip I Id. Sc Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
"\Va! lis on the prevention ofdifeafes
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels rntoDenfnark,R.uilia y Poland,&c.
Cox's iravels intoStvitzeiKind
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Mo'tlferby's medical dictionary
Grigs'iadvicc to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&rce of mid-
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
Cleghorn*s difcafes of Minorca
Times on the muscles
Pdtt's worlcs
Fourcroy's chtmiftry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quince's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewi's drtpenfatory
Kv'an on the afthba
Robert lon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
-Leake on the viscera
Leake on difeates of women
IST: chftl fbn 's-cliemtft ry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the difeaTes of litfa't
Monro ondlftafes of afmifes
HailCr's phyfiblogy
Spalanzane's d»fiertations
London pradtice of physic
Befl's forgery
SCKa*»f{s'* ckfcmiftry.
mw&ftf
(CT Terms of SuSfcription for this
Gazette, aj-e Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of per fans
who rffide at a d'flttrtce from the city, id he
twelve -months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteid at thrplace of puhlticttion.
tf/IK
j4d<uerti/en)eitt& of citc.fi/uare, or left, in
fertedfour times fir One Dollar—once, for
1' ifty Cents—and continuations ul 'Twenty
Cents each—ihofe of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this fine, and Subfrip
tiens, will be gratefully received at the Ojice
in South Fourtjirjlrectyji'oc. doors north ef'ti'e
Indian
NEW BOOKS.
Now openiag for Sale,
By M. C A
No. 118, MARKET-STREET;
A lafgc and valuable coUeftion of BOOKS,
imported from Londc;: :n the Mohawk.
Dec. 19,
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Second-Jireci,
Secooildoor below the corner of Chefiiut-ftreet,
MAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general Ajfortment of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be dtfjJUled of on the lowest terms.
Dec. 23. mw&i tf
TO THE PUBLIC.
r undernamed cominitiee, appointed by
1 " THt SOCIfTV for the INSTITU
TION and SUPPORT of FIRST-DAY or
SUNDAY SCHOOLS in the city of Philadel
phia and the d:iiri& of Southwark and the
Northern Liberties," to solicit further fubfcrip.
lions for the support o! the schools which the
said iociety have eftabltlhed, take ibe liberty to
rcprcfent to their fellow citizens—
That, although the schools were fufpehded
during the period of the laie avtt'ul calamity
with which our city and suburbs have been af
fi 6ted, they are now again opened lor the frep
ad million and education of poor children.
TftVt, the neccfTuy ahd reasons for the eftab*
lifttmtni of the lie (chwois are incieafrd, from the
ctrcumftance of the 4ate diftrifs having left a
number of Orphans drliitute of all the mean*
of education, fa've what the hand of benevolence
may adininilVer.
1 hat, former < xorfience has, mod plcafingly,
verified the fonddt hopes of the friends t>f this
in'Aitution, with regard 10 the progress and ad
vancement of the children, who heretofore
been under its car*, in the ufelul branches -of
education which it has afforded. Referring to
th:s faaft, and to the addrels to the public, on
this publifbed in the nVwfppers of this
cay'n the third month lalf, When about eight
hundred atnS twenty children ol both fexei hafd
partaken of the bencftts nffordedby the fovitfty,
■and about three hundr.d and twenty more were
th-n actually receiving inflruttion in their
schools, it now only remains to be ob!er\fd r
that the funds of rhe society art greatly infutfi
cicnt to cat ry on their benevolent deftgns, and
that.the committeeiotmeily appointed to foticit
fubferiptioru, concrived it ntceflVry to decline
their applteatiims to their fellow-citizens ft>r
ihdr affilhiice in favor of theft schools, in order
that thete might be no interruption from tr.cn>
to the folicuatinns then made in behaif of their
tf»tforfuna!e breint cn from {'ape-Francois.
The public aid -is now therefore carneftly fo
licitcd to fuaport a chaiitaWt ettabiifhineui, cal
culated upon the principles of public and pii
vate good. The annual fubfciiption lor a mem
ber is but One Dollar ; and it is prefumcd that
so small a sum per annum cannot be better dis
posed of, by those who can afford it, than by
bellowing it as the price of the diffufion of ufeiul
•knowledge among the p»»or and lriendlefs.
Subfcnptipns donations will be gratefully
rece vtd by the underlined eontmiuoc on be
half of the society :
Thnmpfon,
Thomai-J*. Cope,
Joseph PrrCtV__
Edward Pole,
1 antes Hardie,
William Innis,
Benjamin Say,
Naibaniel Falconer,
Francis Bailey,
Jrffe SharpJefs,
Samuel Stoiten,
Pe-ier Barker.
Ebrnezer Larrge,
)»cob Caoffman,
j.mes Todd,
Joftph James,
Jonathan Pcnrofp,
GrOtfge Mvade,
J->Uo -Perot,
John M'Cree,
Robert Ralfton,
Thomas Armat,
George William?,
Jan. i
ADVERTISEMENT.
FOR the benefit of those who maybe con•
■cenied it may not be improper to
that the United States, by theirAft of the lath
of February » ?93» ordered that all Claims of
the description therein mentionra, and which
originatcd,pr;eviom't'o the 4th of March 17^9:
be profented ?*t the I'reafury-on or before the
firft ckiy of Ma> 1'794> othtfi-wiJe they will
u for ever thereafter, be bar ed, and extlu
u ded from settlement or allowance.'' And
as there may be fe-veral Creditors of the Uni
ted Stete*,, holding Certificates or other Se
curities, which forin a part of the Domed ic
Debt, and who with to sub fori be to the Loan*
they are reminded that the te*ui for receiving
fubfci iption* at the Treasury, is by the Ast of
the United States, palled thefecord of March
last, extended to the last day of June, 1794.
The-following is an extaft from the Ast of
-Limitation above referred to :
Section I. üße it enacted by the Senate
and Hou'e of Xleprefeptatives of the United
States of Atnfericb, in CniWgrefs ailbmbled —
That all clsfiins upon the United States, for
Service? or-Supplie-, other cr.ufe, mat
ter or thin/p, turniftjed or previous to
the 4th dav of Mitrcb I 759. whether founded
upon CeVt*fic'.it>«, or other written dpCiiments
fVotti Iftitffir Ottktrs'or otherwise, which hav«
nor already lieen bnrntfd by any Ast of JUimi
tatir»n, an*l wltk-ii (liail not l»e presented at
the Treasury before the fiiil day ol"May 1794*
ftiafl forever after be barred and prescribed
from fettlfcin<»nr or allowance : Provided,
h-rcin contained, (hail becon
ftmdd to ertf-ft Loan-Ol3ce Certificates, Cer
tificates of Final Settlements, Indents of In
tereft,'Bnlanicer, entered in the books of the
rfcgWWf of tV *rea?::rycßmnjonW called regif
rered certificates,loans of momct obtained in
i arcign countrfr?,- or certificates ifiyedptKlu
ant to thy'fc v , in rifled •* An Act. makiujpro
viiibn fov tbe i)ei>Co^tlie Uuited States.
R E Y,