EVENING AD VERTISER.
[No. 145 of Vol. V.] Thurssday, May 29, 175)4. [Whole No. 555,.]
JAMAICA RUM,
LANDING at Hamilton'*! vhaiT, aHovt
the D avbn<l»e, out of t';e flip 'Bacchus
Cent. Van® I " iN ' f ,n, n Jamaica,
FOR SALF. BT
PETER BLIGHT.
May 16 d
Carolina Rice and Indi "o,
BAY MAHOGANY amt FRENCH
BURR STONES,
FOR S.iLfc 'BV
Gurney and Smith.
May 14. d
Agreeably to notice, a
metu»?of Subfcribcrs' to t • Art Irs n
Agreement o« tin- Olomb' tiety, was
this day-held at Mr. Rid for the pin
pol>. of chiding Mar vv ten the ol
io* ill" persons v." cc •' :
Robert Morris, Pn/.Jent.
MANAGERS. ,
'James Greertkaf
Trljlram Dalton,
Jcbii Nicholjbn
Caleb ,Lo*unes,
tboma FkzfiKions.
Jg.;ir>.j F/ilfon,
F. A. Muhlenberg,
Walter Stenva-1,
John Hall,
K i hhrt! "Soierjlro m,
NuihariiA IV. Applcton.
.T R.BASURE-R. •
Garrett Cott ringer.
Mav 27, rllw
Advert ifement.
THt relations ()' jMr ThomasCurtis,for
merly of E'licof Upper Mill ~ and fate!yo('
the City of Wafti-ngtou. deceafVd, desir
ed to apply and have his affa r* fettled.-
City of Waftiington, April 22, 1764.
Mu $
CongreJ's. of the United States,
hi Senate, Tuefaay May I yh, 1794.
ORDERXiVrtIiWt Putrnui), Maoa 1 -
lah Cutler, Robert Oliver and Griffin 4
Green, do, upon the third Monday of Decern- 1
"her ne*t, (hew cause to the Senate, why so' 1
much of the grants of land to (hem r'ae laid
Jlnfus Putnam. Manaffoh Cutler, Robert 5
Oliver and Gritfip Green, pu< fuar.t to an A&
entitled "An ast authorizing the grant and {
conveyance of certain lands to the Ohio Com
pany of aflociates," fhalt not he He'clared
void, as may interfere with and be fufficlent '
to.fatisfy the claims of the French fetllers 1
at Galliopolis.
that the delivery of a copy of 1
the above order to Rufus Putnam, Manaflah 1
Cutler, Robert Oliver, or Griffin
the publication of the fame, one ,nonth, in
one of the Gazettes printed in this City, fliall
be deem, d fuffinent notice therepf.
Extract from the Journals of Senate.
Attest,
SAM. A. OTIS, secretary.
May j4. tm .
REMAINING '<
OF THE 1
Ship India's Cargo,
FROM
BENGAL.
A final! afTortment of
BALE GOODS,
2jo bags CO T TON of good quality, which
would probably make an excellent remit
tance to Etuope, and a
'Quantity of PEPPER
For Sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
tVbo has also to dispose of
Barcelo a Hand'ts. in boxes,
Holland Qin in cases,
Souchong, Myfop, and Tonkay Tea,
A quantity of Brimstone, &c.
for sale,
By MATHEW CAREY, No. 118 "
Mai ket-Street,
An KfTay on Slavery 1
Defigncd to exhibit in anew point of view
it« etfefls »n merdi, mdujiry, ai>d the
Jociety. Some rafts and calculation are offered
° P ,T the ' jl ™ r °- f Jfrtemtn to be much more
f Z a ' V ' ,h , 3 " ,h " ? couillric, are
rich, powerfu and happy, j„ proportion a> ,| le
abo ,„g people enjoy ,he fruit," „f oln
lab 9 r ; and hence (he n. ceffa.y eonclulion, that
flavcry is impohtK as well .is urtm/l W
» Pric E 2 5 Cems. dlf
February a
For Sale or Charter,
; The Schooner
" M v |f%P O.LL Y,
jfclKgr Burthen loco barrel.
'i ,• .; f-ft failing new vefT-^well
fomid, and eady Jor any Voyage, eirlur to
of t/i YVe't Indies, For terms ap
ply lo
DEBLOTS y BHECK.
At their store, between JJjijnut a;xi Clieliiut
llreet. wharves.
3 , d
• ••" r —H — :
For Sale or Charter,
(An American bottom)
John Moore, Mafler.
IS a ftSlit good vpiTjt, about two years old,
hurt hen 232 tons, har only mack throe voy
t^es t a d rn-iy b- e«>t to Tea at a (mall ex- *
jCnce. S.ie rrtuy b<? seen at Vi"e-ftreet wharf,
and the term-i made known hv application to ;
WHARTON 1$ tUH r IS. j
March 2. . <Vrt' !
INDUSTRY,
Luoyj Wharton, Matter.
SHE is intended to fail' with the firlt veilels
and can accommodate a few- paiFengcrs very
well. For terms apply to the Captain,' or
WHARTON & G REEVES.
May 19.
Morris Academy.
Til IS .institution is uow open for 1 ).© lecsp
tion of ftuuents under jhe fmmediate care of
?4t*. Cideb » RuIIHJ, whole abilities, as an in
.iti-uclor, riiid U> £he,bufinef:» friyt
Jong bee;i wua*yl*and approved. He h2s ull
der Uiiri t ie '.eit alfiftaius in the > r ,
biancnes—-.The fcho'ars arc tHe ,Z
gltfh, Frvich, Latin, and G ck language*, 1
Wriui 3,. Arithmetic, I
grapiiy, Aftrouo.ny, ai«d the various branco
es.of roe The heal-by firoa
tion of tHis.pl.»ce ?s fu h as 10 v ocorauiis-.ua 1'
1•> cb d' i
the cou.itry. Boa'ding, wjfliitig,
foe* wiil be in good families, a- d
the morals bf'ihc Itholars carefully attendee
10.
The price including tyfrion, firewood, &
eexcfulive of the French.lan u ge) will
xceed thirt) pounds proclamation money pe*
annum) an addition ol three dollars per qua -
,ter. will be macevtu 'Uch' itholais w4u» <11
teught the French language. The* D ? <fto
ai edefc' rmined to pay fucn attention' to ti.
initiiution, as will render it refpcttable anc
ufefu).
GABItTEL H. FORD, }
TI MOTH* JOHNS, just. C D.teft'i
NATHAN FORD, S
Moiriitown, May 15, 1794
. diw.—v/2m.
Midwifery,
Dr. Price, Fellow of the Anti
'quar an Soctety, and of fefus Coll g i„ toe
Univprfity ol Oxford, &c. &c. formerly lec
tuier on Midwifery in l.ondon, wil] com-'
mence tar]y in the Autumn, a compete
Course of Ledtures,
on the
Theory & pradtice of Midwifery
( the latejl Improvements J
And 0.1 the vari us O.ieafes incident to Wcf
menaiid Chi'diea; oi which tim-lv no:ict;
will be given.
3t
Excellent CLARET,
In hog (heads and in cases of ,50 bqtUc, each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine •
MADEIRA,
In pipes, lioglheads and casts,
For sale by
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. Hi, Suuth f, ,nt itreel
Ja "- 2 ' '794-_ d,t
Just Imported,
htheJhip Abigail, CaMain lhrton, from St \
tXSzf**""" I ***'!
HtMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
RIVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
wSSif N'":« ft ° rCSOf i"
A rj| John Donnaldfon.
1 o»w w& tt"
Cincinnati of Pennsylvania
May 28, 1794.
A STATED ineetine -it" the (landing Com
mil tee ws;. i»o h d on Monday evening
a /o c oclc hc tlie Oncltogue waggon. A'~
| a'ipe:i»f«irs for thc4th Ju'y bcinjg need r> ;o
, be 10 iHed, the members are requeiled puuo
tu II y t j attend.
JOSEPH HOWELL,
'' 4 r Secretary pro Tcm.
ADVERTISEMENT.
a 1
LETTERS on the fubjeft of the Wa/h
---ington LotteVy, be'ihg by mistake repeaudly
addreHed fothe Commiflioners for the City
of YVailiington,
erfons concerned are hereby informed,
that all such /hould bp addrefled either to XV.
peakmsjun. pf VVafhington, or to the Sub—
icribei 4 . The comiTiifiioncrrs never having
, coatei/jplated any further concern in this
business, than in their alien: to Receive the
bonus and approve the names of he rnana
gei 3. Fhe pr;zes have been paid and are
paying on demand by W. JDeakins,
ington, Peter Oilman, Boftoji, and by the
Subscriber.
I'cr the Lottery A T o. 2, the securities al
ready given Will be retained by the comm if
fioners, or transferred by thtnfl at' their
option to the Bank of Columbia; and the
Com mi Hi oners will' be consulted refpefling
a judicious and equitable difpoptioo of the
ho tiles to be built thereby 5 ..theft* treasury or
the Bank of Columbia will receive the mo
ney i itended for the National University,
and they will beconlu'ted in the nominaiion !
ol the 24 managers; but all the reiponiibihty !
refpc£ing.the general dilpofition of the tic- !
kets, and payment of prizes, will reft as j
in the Hotel Lottery, *n the persons whose i
j names are and maybe hereafter publiihed as :
a.iiitan;s to forward this business with
B.LODGET.
Philad. May 28, d— ?t.
J UST Pll BLISH ED,
THOMAS I)OBSON a
ckfellery at the Stone HuUfe in SecondJirecty
l J hiludulphia,
fOI.UME XI OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA,
OR A -
Din 'ionary of Jlrts, Sciences, aud Mijccl
laneous Literature,
ON a plan entueiy, new ; b.y which the.dif
etent fcic.u-e*and arts are into the
unn .»( d.rtinft-tieatifes'or iyltem . This'
11 unK CO tains the articl> •'»/ riiedafs, n.etfi
«i"e, methodilh,
vl-x co, niicroicope, mid;wif n.y, .and* grent.
va.utydt biographical and ar
iJiuftrated with nineteen copperplates,
iti* The tables of logarithms, &c. « hich
were deficient in the tenth volume, are fuV
J nned'o this
E . ven v.i'U'nesof this worjc are now pub
lilh.'d, and tae Xllth is in fame foi uardnefs.
On tic'tiritof St'ptcmlie<, 1792, the price
'P £ »°» was incir. afed ThN dollars on '
a ile ts not taken before that t me. The sub- I
cription i-.aiu op CJ , on c liel> terms, and it I
any copies remain by the firft of July j
price will be railed TEN dollars mare, on \
any Copies which may be rtibftribed for after
thar period. .
*«*Asmanyof the/übferibers have taken j
only two, three or four, &c. volumes, they are
earnestly requeftcd to take up and pay fur the
remaining volumes, as it becomes difficult to
c nnplete tirefetts, and the publiflier dries not
nuid :iimfe:f bound to make up any setts after
.
- A ' 22 ' - m.?:t!Y^
JUST PUBLISHED,
MATHEW* CAREY,
118, Market Jlreet,
Price 18 ' cents,
T H E
Catechism of Man ;
Pointing out f 'i>n found principles, and ac
, taAs the Rights and Duties of
every Rauoij.it Being.
Am J therefore become yourenemy because I
tell yon the truth ? Gal. iv. 16
Now all thefr things happened unto them for
examples, and they are written for our
admonition, upon whom the ends of the
earth.are cipine. j Cor. x i.
Mly i 3 tuth&s2vv
"P ] E office of the President and Director
A the Insurance Company of North
America, is removed to No. 107, South
' u "tftr&:r, being the south eail corner of
From and Walnut Jlreets.
• t&fj 01
i, UNITED STATES.
t NEW-YORK, May 24
At a general meeting of the owners,
a mailers and configees of American vcf
- le.s, who have had their property seized
at ot. Pierre, Martinique, for the pur
poles of coining the different cirCum-
Itances attending this illegal procedure,
10 kri ert L ° f ° rm 3 (tatcme »t of fads, and
publish them on our arrival in Americ ,
" j,i of our countryinc ,
o Late the following eircumttances: vu.
hat having failed from America be
tween the month of November and March ,
' . 'alt palt, arrived within the above periods
. ' at this place ; that we were tranfeaW
; our business as we were accustomed to do!
i "Z imported nothing contraband, or
! in any refpta violated the laws of nei »
tralily.
That on or about the third day of Fc-
bruary, the Britifli fleet and army appear
ed off this island, and commcnced the
e £ c °f't J that they landed their troops
on or about the fifth day of February,
<it t nmty, and on or about the seven
teenth of the fame rhonth, appeared of,
landed, and took pofferilon of the town
—the following day officers were sent on
board our refpeclive vefTels, our fails were
unbent, our colours torn down, ourselves
with oi(r mates and seamen "were taken
I out of our vefTels without being permitted
j to take a Tingle change of clothes, fecuie
| our cabins or trunks, and were carried 011
j board afhipof war; and after undergo
ing a contemptuous examination', were
coWviyed on board a prison-ship ; hei'ewe
were crouded together to the number of
two hundred and fifty persons, in a fmail'
iliip with afr.igle deck, without any kind
of provisions except what we received
from our friends on ifjore., and even that
with great difficulty, as they forbid' any
boat coming along fide the fiiip. "We re
mamed in this situation three days ; dur
ing which time we made applications to
the commodore, Capt. Nugent, of the
ship of war called the Veteran, and beg
ged he would supply us with provisions,
or at leali let iis go on shore to provide it
for ourselves, and we received this laconic
reply—7 hat he should give us nothing
"that we were a set of damn'd rascals, and
might ftarvfc and be damn'd. That at
length, a commissary was appointed to Tup
pi)* the seamen with provisions, and we
were permitted to go on shore and live at
our own expense; some of us w.:re per
mitted to go on board our vefTels, to look
after our trunks, bedding, clothes, &c.
and found that our cabins had been fhame
fully plundered, our trunks and chests
broke open and robbed of every thing of
value, our papers, that were of
to any person but ourselves, torn and des
troyed ; and, in fact, a line of depreda
tions exhibited that could have been only
produced through the effects of malici
ous revenge and th* frenzy of intoxica
tion.
Our vessels were moored together so
close, that in fifteen days many of them
chaffed through and funk; some drifted
to sea and never returned; others drove 011
shore and bilged; our unfortunate seamen
who were unable to live on shore, or their
captains to support them, died daily on
board the prtfon fliip; some were seized
and put on board the (hips of war. That
after more than a month's fufpence, we
were informed a court of vice-admiralty
was eflabliihed to try us (or rather to
condemn us) and we were monitioned to
appear and anfwe.- to the libel; almost as
soon as we heard the court appointed,
when our preparatory examinations ought
to have preceeded its issuing, which con
vinced us that as the judge had commenc- '
ed illegally, we could cxpeft nojufticc from
him : that another month had almost elap
sed when we were told that we mult give
security to prosecute our claim, for what
he called double costs, to the amount of 60
johannes, to be certainly forfeited should
we be condemned : this wc unanitnoiiflywncrivc. : t>e fcbtme to extract
from our friends more than .seven thciufand
pounds, our veffcls having been fold by or
der of the judge, and we unanitfioufly de
clined adding this sum to what they had
already deprived us of—and the event pro
ved as we expeftcd, as the judge denied us
the benefit of an argument through our
attorney, and condemned us all under 6ne
utidiftingttifhcd sentence ; —As bad men,
supplying bad men in a bad cause, and were
and might to be considered as enemies to
Great-Britain, thereforewe were good and
lawful prjzes to his majesty's fleet and ar
triy, and as such he condemned us.
Signtd by forty Captains.
Far the Gazette of the United States
SNUFF and SUGAR TAX.
It is itbfuid to fay that home manufac
tures are improper fubjedts of taxation ;
such a dodtrine would, under certain cir
cumstances, destroy all revenue, and leave
the government destitute of any resource
but land tax, which ofjtfelf operates in
a great degree as a tax on home manu
factures.
If the revenues (>f a country be chiefly
-derived' from import, and the effect of
;hat impoll be, by protedting duties, to
fubrtitute domestic for foreign manufac
tures, the revenue is loft on the articles not
imported, and mult be supplied, either
by a laud-tax or by a tax on the home
made article. For instance, imported loaf
sugar and fnujf, were dutied so high as to
micouiage the home manufacture of those
articles ; they are now no longer import
ed but in small quantities, the revenue
once derived from them is consequently
Igil ; but that revenue being pledged foi
the iupport of government, and the pub
lic credit, a fubrtitute mult be refbrted
to ; now what better fubrtitute can there
be than those very articles furnifhed by a
domestic manufacture, foftered and teared
to maturity by the very duties which their
pcrtedion has annihilated. If this be
not done, those articles will altogether
escape taxation, and surely there are none
more fit for it. Shall fait be t»xcd, and
has sugar and fmjf go free > The one a
species of luxury, the other not only a
luxury, but an idle fuperfluity ! If ever
there were two articles proper for revenue,
these are the two, and the mode adopfed,
is the only one whereby the articles are
ccmeatnble.
All the noise then made on this fubjedt
resolves itfelf into this, that fnuff and
loaf sugar ought to pay no tax.
Infant mnnufadtures ought certainly to
be protested, and no government has
done more for them than that of the Uni
ted States. The manufactures of fnuff
and sugar have experienced the benefits
of that protection, and have grown to
such importance, that they not only sup
ply all the United States, but furnifli a
fu, plus for exportation. Of fnuff a con
siderable quantity is exported. Shall the
opulent manufacturers be exempt from
their fhate of the public burdens, while
the merchant and shopkeeper groan un
der the prefTureof continually increasing
duties > Ought they not to furnifh their
mite to the support of a government un
derwhich they have grown wealthy?
Will the sugar-baker begrudg# a trifle
from his immense earnings to sweeten the
sorrows of his wretched fellow-citizens
at Algiers ? Will the fnuff-manufadurer
suppose the defence of our country not
worth a finch of fnujf>
Fie on such opposition ; if these gen
tlemen are composed of such fymtathhing
materials, let them sympathize with their
miserable fellow-men at Algiers, and not
deprive Congress of the means of deliver
ing them, or rob the consumers ef War
ana fnuff of the gratification of contribu
ting to tKeir relief.
Where is the truly patriot-citizen who
will not find his sugar the more palatable
when he refiedh that it tends to sweeten
the poor captives' woes ? Or who will not
more enjoy hi, pinch of f„ u ff, f or beine
ri"ht3 R > mean " ° f maintainin S ourjull
WARREN.
Foreign Intelligence.
BY THK
LATE ARRIVAL AT NEW-TORK.
PARIS, March ij.
We learn from Brest, that all the ship,
of the me of the two divisions, have
been obliged to return to port, on account ;
of bad weather. The frigates alone are
I able to remain at sea. Jambon-Saint-An
dreis animating the woikmen at Bred by
his presence.
1 The committee of public welfare have
ordered that the Theatre ci-dcvant Fran
> cais, being a National edifice; Ihould be
r opened without delay, and that it ihould
■ be invariably set apart for reprefentaliorts
, to be given by and for the people, at cer
; tain periods in each month.
3 . Amongit Oe persons who have been
1 lately guillotined, arc the Count de
L'Aigle, Matechal de Camp, and Loui
sa Rosalie de la Rochefoucault ; ninety
one Priests havebeencondufted from Rou
en to Rochefort, condemned to be trans
ported to the coast of Africa.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY,
25 Ventofe—March 15.
i St. Just communicated the following
letter addrefled to the Committee of pub
: lie fafety by the Public Accuser of the
; Revolutionary Tribunal:
1 u In consequence of the information
received at the Revolutionary Tribunal,
in execution of the decrees of the Nati
onal Convention, which order the Public
Accuser to inform againfl the authors and
1 accomplices of the confpiracv formed a
gainst jhc liberty and security of the peo
ple, I hasten to announce to you, that
the refiilt of my enquiries permitted me
not to defer any longer the arrest of Rou
fin, Vincent, Hcbert, Momoro, Ducro-,
quet, and Gen. Laumur. A Dutdi
banker, of' the name of Koc.q, is also
ordered to be arretted, at the moment 1
am writing. The enquiries and informa
tions are going on ; I hope soon to ob
tain new intelligence. I prom:fe you
that the tribusul will negledl nothing to
find out all the culpable."
Jlobefpierre—" The execrable faction
who v»oiild enslave us, and whose plots
have been discovered, has assembled at
i aris, bands of emigrants, and of despe
rate men of all deicriptions. With the
aid of these monsters, crimes have been
planned, the idea aloue of which makes
one shudder, and of which the annals of
'.he world afford no example. All the
tyrants ot Europe were well acquainted
with the exa£t time at which this incredi
ble tragedy was to have commenced. To
force the prisons, to cut the throat of a
part of the prisoners, to arm the reft, to
fall on the National Reorefentation and
murder them, to do. the fame by the
Constituted authorities, and all the firmed
fujiporters of the Republic; to obtain by
this means, the poffeflion of all the pow
eia, and, upon the fmoaking ruins of the
Temple of Liberty to re-establish Royal
ty : I his was the horrible fate that await
ed us, and which lias been planned by men
who had contrived to insinuate themselves
into the confidence of the people. With
regard to the proofs of these accumulated
ci imes, we have them in abundance.
These proofs {hall be laid before you.
But, before all things, I adjure the peo
ple to employ themselves to discover their
enemies; I adjure them to defend the sa
cred cause of Liberty with their accustom
ed energy: 1 adjure them to second and
support their R'epreientatives, who will
always condud themselves with the fidelity
proportioned to the confidence reposed in
them. I entreat the people to go through
the Sections, to pull off the malic from
the accomplices of the criminals whom
we have already in our poffeflion, and to
confound the traitors who are salaried bv
the Tyrants."
CONSTANTINOPLE, Feb. io.
1 he infurreaion in Arabia (till conti
nues. The rebellious fed are called the
Vehabi, and have nothing lefj in view than
l »? P ,' ng the wllole foundation of
the Mahometan Religion, which they are
taught to look upon as tiie groffcil Ido-
The discontents among the people here
are ft,ll very high. Divisions alft> exist a
mong the troops, and a {hort time since the
cannoneers and the Janissaries had an en- I
gagement, in which many were killed on
both fides. And notwithstanding this
U'mult was appealed, a new explosion is
terrible l" Cannot fail to be
FRIBOURG, in the 3RISGAU
March 6,
The communication with Basle and
witzerland is still interrupted. All tranf
pickaxes, & c . which the Swiss drew fiom
this country to fend to France, are car"
fully flopped. A single focietv at Bade
has accepted a delivery of 100,000 pair of
shoes for the Sans-Cu'uttes.—Cloth fuffi
cient to habit 20,000 men have been al
ready seized.
VALENCIENNES, March 16.
A few days ago the French, to the
number of 3000, with four pieces of can
non, arrived at the village of Youi, on the
causeway between Bouchain and Carabray,
which they immediately began to pillage.
The whole village would have been sacked,
but for a detachment of about So Auftn
an hussars, who making their appearance
before the village, led the Carmagnols to
fnppofe that a strong corps was appi oach
ing to dislodge them, and Caused them to
retreat, carrying with them 50 -waggons,
loaded with their spoils. The day before
yelterday the republicans returned, 6000
men strong, and accompliihed the ruin of
that ill-fated viilaj^.
The head-qnarters of the Prince of Co
bourg are still here, and nofNvithftanding
<he contrary reports, which have been in
circulation these last days, it is not likely
that any great movement will happen in
our army before the 25th of this month.
FRANKFORT, March 6.
The difference between the courts of
Vienna and Berlin, with respect to the
most proper means for the defence of the
I Empire, against the invasion of French
1 troops, is of such a natui e as is likely to
produce a great change either in the future
conduit of the war, or perhaps in the ge
neral position of affairs with refpeft to
France. The probability of this becomes
greater, not only from the arrival of French
comtnifiioners in this city, and from the
manner in which they are received by the
Prussian general, the count de Kalkreuth,
but from their continuing to reside here,
and from the pacific tone which is affumid
by all those who belong to the court of
Berlin, and the writers in their intetelL
MANHEIM, March 11.
Deserters just arrived from NenhorfF,
acquaint us, that the republicans arricon
ilrudting a number of boats at Spires.
1 hat city is totally ruined, and the in
habitants robbed of every thing they pof
fefTed.
1 he night before last a great body of
French cavalry appeared before- Rhcrn
gemheim, and forced the Austrian advan
ced poll, after a day's bloody skirmish. *
The Carmagnols however did not succeed
in their object to plunder the country, but
were obliged to fend back their waggons
empty, which they had brought with than
to carry off the spoils.
Last night the French, in very conside
r j f° rce > l attempted to carry off the ports
of Mundenheim, Oggerfheim, and Friez
heim. Ihe post of Oggerfheim was taken,
the other poll fell back, as did two more,
to the fort of the Rhine ; the French pur
sued as far as within reach of the cannon
of the son. The reserve of the garrison
ot Manheim were ordered to mar t i. to the
fort of the Rhine, which movement they
effe&ed with much celerity ; at 11 o'clock
a part of these re-entered the city, and
every thing was quiet. ,
BRUSSELS, March 18.
n r French made a Thursday
last from Maubeuge, with 2500 men, of
whom half were cavalry—the ad ion was
bloody; they left 80 dead and wounded,
and 116 prifonersin the hands of the Au
ftrians, who had only two lieutenants
of Starrey and 23 men killed, and 10
wounded.
1 he 1 r;nce of Cobourg has ifTued a pro
clamation which has been placarded every
where, that all French Emigrants without
exception, and within three days, depart
from Valehciennes, Mons, Le Quefnoy,
Conde, Courtray, Tournay, Ypres, .Fumes
and Nreuport; and even those who had re
ceived letters of admiflion and residence from
induded in Severe
/r i t O / Mce is said to b e occasi
oned by the discovery of a plot at Tournay,
in which it appeared that many French imi
der the t tie of Emigrants had engaged.
Last week the French made a dreadful in-
On fV" 10 I Prmci P alit y of Chimay—
On Friday, they entered the town, cut to
pieces a fmail body of troops that attempted
fet°W e t tt, em, ! Pllllged a " the houfcs > and
set fire to the place in . four different parts
In retreating with their booty, they pillaged ;
relt a nTr ytra ' Vl,lages ' Vi- ,
tw.nf g 7 - Slxt y-«ght Auftrians and
twenty-one peasants were killed. At Leniruv
seven Frenchmen, who staid behind the reft :
Ito plunder, were taken by the Austrian huf :
fars, and put to the sword. t
' h*"'f W^°^e quarters are 2
at Arlon ' has sent to the Prince of Saxe- tl
1 ..
Cobourg for reinforcement to enable hint
to oppole the attempts of the French army
Of the Mozelle on- that part of the frontier.
LONDON, March 18.
Opening of the New Drury-Lane Theptrci
The firft performance in this magnift.
cent ftru&ure commauded, as might have
been cxpe&ed, a numerous aad brilliant
audience. The general appearance of the
house, combining solidity with lightness
and elegance with fimplietty, is, in every
refpeft honorable to the taste and fkili of
the archited. We mult add also, though
it may be deemed an inferior praise, that
the entrances are moll happily disposed
for the cjlftribution of the audience, and
are at the fame time of such amplitude,
that no poflible croud can give iirth to
danger or even to in'convgn/'ence.
It opened with a grand selection from
the works of Handel. The ttage was
formed on this occasion, to represent the
inside of a Gothic Cathedral ; and the
coup d'oeil was such, on the riling of
the curtain, as to draw forth the appro
bation of the audience, exprefled not in
the customary manner, but in loud huz
zas 1
The merits of the performers, and the
force and corredtnefs of the basd, were
worthy of the splendor of the fcenc, and
auipicious of the future management. -
1 he performance opened with the Coro
nation Anthem, which wan loudly ap
plauded.
Mirch 26.
Letters from Frankfort of the 9 th men
tion, that the Prufliuis are in motion, and
making preparations to re-croft the Rhine.
1 he numbers in that neighborhood are about
11,000 strong.
In corroboration of what is dated in
the letter from Frankfort, dated March 6,
With refpeft to the disposition of the court
or Berlin, we extract the following articles
from a Prussian paper:—
" Notwithftnnding the extraordinary
preparations which are making, in all quar
ters tor the opening's third campaign, we
have received particular intelligence, which
gives us reason still to entertain fomehope
of an accomodation tak ng place, or at lead
of a ceflfation of holtilitics being agreed
upon between the contending parties."
A corps of 5969 Hanoverians, under
the command of major general Wangen
heim, marchcd fiwn Hanover on the 1 ft.
instant, to join the combined Brjtifh and !
Hanoverian army, under fbe command of
his royal highnefs'the duke of York. f
General Aberci omby narrowly escaped
being made a prifuner at Werwick, a fevr
days since. A itrong detachment of the
enemy attacked and carried the village, at
which general Abereromby arrived while
it was in theie pofleflion, ignorant of what
had happened j being near-sighted, he ap
proached within a very short distance, be
fore he discovered his error, and was then
indebted for his fafety to the fieetnefs of
his horse.
1 he empress of RufTla has recommend'
ed,that is, ordered, a coufiderable redu&ioa
of the troops of Poland, and offers very
advantageous terms to the difbauded offi
cers and soldiers, who choose to enter inlo
her service. This is a very compendious
Way to get rid of an army that might yet
give her trouble, and to add the greater
part of it to her own forces.
1 he fats of Poland, even amidst the ge
neral diltrefs of Europe, cannot fail of
claiming a sigh of pity, or awakening an
emotion of indignation, in every generous
bread. A further partition of that unfor
tunate country seems meditated by the em
preis, merely that (hi may fecitre the neu*
trality• of Auflria during the execution of
her ambitious views upon the Porte.
.Letters from Nice, of the 17th ult.
announce that the city is full of republican
troops, who are to ast at the opening ofthe
campaign. Sixty pieces of ordnance had
also arrived at Nice front Toulon. The
commissioner Salicetti, was expected shortly
to airive at Nice, after which, 10,000
men,abundantly supplied with ammunition
and provilions, were to embark on some
ccret expedito. The greatest zeal prevails
at JNiee, in building ships and vessels of all
iizes.
A number of troops are about to be em
barked on board the Revel division of the
vuliion fleet, which, after being joined by
alquadron from Arch-angel, is to proceed
on a secret expedition.
1 he sickness among the troops at South
ampton and the Me of Wight is truly
alarming, and demands the molt serious at'
tention of government.—The disorder
l"T g ' Lem 1138I 138 bafflcd the Mll ofone °f / 4
he firft phylicjau generals, and fotne of the
1m
best surgeons and pljyfical gentlemen that
ever attended an army.—"-Tliree regiments
are said to have been thus rendered unser
viceable.
The Prince of Saxe-Cobourg has his
head-quartets at Valenciennes. General
Maek is with him ; and the report is that
the French are to be attacked without de
lay, that they may be obliged to fight be
fore they can complete the works of their
entrenched camp near Cambray. i
The merchants* bankets, notaries and
persons in easy oircumftances, have follow
ed the clergy, the nobles, and the milita
ry, as victims of the French Rebellion.
The land-owners and farmers are now the
order of the day, and are about to un
dergo the fame perfections. In one of
■ the last fittings of the Cordeliers, Hebert
attributed the present scarcity to the ava
rice of the land-holders. " Why, (said
he) (hould the country people refufe us
provisions. Ought not every thing to be
common to all?" This exprefiion was
loudly applauded ; and we have no doubt,
but we shall immediately fee the Revoluti
onary army preceeded by the Guillotine,
make the inhabitants of the country feel
all the influence of a rebellion, which they
haw been so often told tohavebeen brought
about fole'.y for their advantage.
The French have experienced very
great distress, from the difappointnk'nt
of their not receiving the cargoes of wheat
which have been /hipped from the ports
of Denmark for their supply. There is
reason to think, that very few of these
(hips hive escaped ourciuifers.
RAMSGATE, March 13.
IJiis eiorning was brought into this har
bour, a krge Swodifh hoy, having on board
ten thoufiind stand of arms, and a considera
ble quantity of gunpowder. This vefiel was
taken by the ThetU frigate, very near Diep
pe. She lad made the signal for a pilot, and
was lying too until there (hould be a fufficient
depth of water for her to enter the harbour.
When the Thetis's boat boarded, the crew
of the hoy had emptied ail their water calks,
and they pretended that they were waiting
pft' Dieppe for a frefh fupplV of that article.
Also, was brought in this morning, an
American brig from Havre, bound to Ham
burgh : ftie has a considerable sum of specie
on board, which, it appears, is to purchase
corn at Hamburgh, to be delivered at Havre,
,at which place this veiTel has already carried
three targot's of that article, ,ir.d was mak
ing the foiicth t'.'jp spy th« tame purpose,
•when (he fell in with the Thetis frigate;
and it has been thought proper to detain her.
THEATRE.
.OBSERVER No. XVIII,
Mr. FennOj
.LAST evening, 'fane Shore, and Garriek's
Mon Tea were performed at the New Thea
tre, for the benefit of Mr. Whitlock ; the
Jiouie was tolerably filled; which confider
i.ng the badnels of weather, was evincive
■of the expectations formed of leeing Mrs.
Whitlock again, and of the approbation,
which Mr. Whitlock has very deserVedly
obtained of the public. Both Mr. and
Mrs. Whitlock, are aCtors of high reputati
on, but the Obf-rver cannot fupprels the plea
sure he feels, in being able to announce them
to the public, as characters calculated, for al
most any rank in Society.—lt affords a high
compliment to the virtuous discernment and
Taite of the Ladies in Philadelphia, that
such a character as Mrs. Whitlock attracted
thro' the storm more than two hundred of
them, lift evening to the Theatre.—May
you, my fair friends, pass thro' the Jlorms
of life without Shrinking, and reach that gcal,
v here virtu?, like Mrs. Whitlock's, meets
its eternal reward.
Mr. Green has improved so much, and
exhibits such talents as an aCtor, that it would
be injustice, jiot to give him, a tribute of ap
plause, he certainly deserves much for his
last evening's performance.
The Observer would hint, with cantion,
to the managers, that so good an opinion is
formed et Mr. Harwood, as an aCtor, that
the public would be gratified, in feeing him,
more frequently, on the stage.
Mr. Bates, as usual for him, received great
lpplaufe.
Mr. Wignel, never filled a part, wit!
nore propriety and dignity, than that
—d Halting* "*• ' 1 —
" * th.
Lore* He has been generally p
plauded for l. exhibition of Darby, Littlt
John &c.—but his performance last evening
ought -to refeqe him from all imputations, oi
a&ing well, only in the lower grade of cha
rafters ; all who saw him last evening muf
be convinced of the juftjee of this remark.
May 29.
For the Gjzsttk of the United States
Mr. Fenno,
Pleale to insert the within, in your paper of
this day—Jf the General Advertiser fails
us, we rauft have resort to your paper,
which will help its credit; this I think
wili be a fufncicnt rriotive for you to pub
lifli.
May 29th.
To the Editor of the ERrnat
YOUR paper of this morning contains
not a word, accusing the Executive* Senate
or House of Representatives of the United
States, of treason against the people^—rNor
is there any expreffien calculated to keep up
distrust, in the people, of tlie Federal Govern
ment, so necefiary, for the of main
taining, our Democratic Societies. Are you
not sensible, Mr. Editor, that We are ruined,
unless we lay about us with unremitting at
tention ? The people, feeling as they do, tne
blessings of the General Government, will
soon become perfedlly quiet under it ; and
then, fir, our Societies are at an end.—lf all
your correfponuents failed, could not you
have added some little apt ftreke, like, we
hear, news is received by the Executive,
indicative of very hostile feelings in the Bri
tish Court, which is kept secret from the
people, &c.
PleiTe, fir, to pay better attention ; your
paper is now our last re/ort, if you fail us,
you are sensible we are in a fad situation in-
deed.
May 29.
PHILADELPHIA,
, By this Day's Mail.
BRUSSELS, March 16.
The French, it is positively aflerted, have
agreed to give a large sum of money to the
King of P , part of which has airea--y'
pa(Ted their frontier, in confldrration where
of, his P- 11 Majeity, who, it is ("aid,
does not consider himfelf immediately inter
red in the war, signs with them a treaty of
peace and alliance.
The two French commi.Tioners at Frayk
fort are to put a finishing hand to this buii
neft.
The demand made by his Pnlffian Maicfty
for bread and forage, to so large an amount,
is estimated at 20 millions of florins. The
Emperor has offered tii pay the half, which
has been refufed, because he owes the King
of Prussia already jo millions, fiirnnbed him
duryag theprelent war, the payment of which
is now required, The King of PruiTia, in
stead of diminifliing his demand upon the
Circles, in consequence of the difficulties it
has met with lias augmented it. He now
demands, that they (hall ailCo make good to
him 260 German florins for e vV'ly mad. that
■Slav be killed during l .') - war.
There is another report equat.'fy iippor
tant, and which, if equally true, tiVvelopes
the views of the King of Prussia. is Jaid
that his troops having been admitted rnto
that part of Silesia flill remaining to Au
stria.have seised several posts of importance
and particularly the paflages in the Car
pathian mountains, which separate that
country from the vther Hates of the house
of Austria. ,
In short, some believe that bis design is
to poflefs himfelf of the remainder of Si
lesia, which formerly belonged to his fa
mily, as an indemnity, for the money lent
the Emperor.
OSTEND, April i.
No action of consequence has yet happen
ed, tho' there is much lkirmifhing towards
Bouchainand I.e,Careauj; and from present
circumstances, k appears probable, that a
general engagement, in that neighbourhood
will soon take place. The head quarters of
the Britilh army are removed to St. Amand.
Tournay is almost wholly evacuated, the
troops being moved, & formed to cover the
Auftrians upon the frontiers. The Commis
sary General's station is now at Antwerp,
whither all the (lores are now removing.
The defection of the King of Prulliafrom
the alliance is now generally believed j tho'
the Gerrnas papers in general afiecfk to dis
credit it—the following avowal has appeared
in the Gazette de Cologne, under the date
of Mayence, March 13.
" His Majesty the Kiug of Prussia hav
ing ordered that none of his troops Ihould re
main with the army of the Upper Rhine,be
yond his subsidiary corps of 20,000 men, the
Pruflians begin to leave us. This day, pas
sed through this city, the regiments of Kleill
and Crobelfdarff, as well as the battalion of
Legat, dire&ing their march towards Co
logne. They are to be immediately follow
ed by the regiment of Saxe Weimar Horse.
LONDON, April i.
Letter from the King of Prufia totbcEclec
tor of Mentt—Berlin, Jan. 21, 1794.
" The extraordinary urgency of the
present circumstances, induces me to writ;
this letter to your Highness, in full a flu
ranee of your Highsefs's perfect know
ledge of the iituation of Germany, 0111*
country. The dangerous crisis in which
this country is thrown, by a war without
example, with a formidable, furious and
deftruCLve enemy, who already menaccs
A Democrat.
A DEMOCRAT.
MAY 29.
th<i Six Frontier Circles to enter them
with fire and sword ; such a crisis is too
well known to your Excellent*-, not to
fee the necefliiy of concurring with me,
and vfi'.h eyery State animated with a pa
triotic zeal in the mull proper mcafures
to ward off the danger.
Among all the measures which the
Empire can employ, there is, none which
appears to me mure inefficacious against
an enemy, whose numbers diunnifti not,
and who oppose a frantic fury in battle,
to the resources of tactics, and a nume
rous artillery ; nothing, I fay, is more
insufficient than the general armament of
the inhabitanta'of the Circles, which has
been proposed. This meaftire, "so dan
gerous, and so Angularly delitate in it
felf," is (till more inadmiflible, because
il can in no wife accord with the defence
of the empire by my trot>ps, and their re
treat mud infallably be the confequente.
A$ it is impoifible for me to continue
a war so far diilant from the frontieis of
my ettatesj and which is so expensive, 1
have* foijie months iince, frankly opened
myf-if on this head to the principal pow
ers who take part m the war, and 1 have
entered on negotiations with them, which
cannot yet be terminated.
It ,is for this reason now 1 find myfclf
obligrd to demand of the Empire, to
charge itfelf with the provisioning of my
army,
In.reality, the necefiaiy mtafuiga on this
fujajeft have beeh lately made at.the Diet,
but jmj'r Highness will consider, that it is
impoflible to wat its decision r so that the
orJ-y thing which remains to be done fat
the Si? Frontier Circles, who have moil
■»eed of defence,is to assemble immediately
for the purpose of furnifhilig the said pro
visions provifionaHy, until, the Diet has
made its concluficin. >
In conference, I beg of your High
ness, iq the moll pressing manner that your
Highness, in virtue of your quality of
Arch-Chancellor and Director of the Cir
cles would immediately convoka the said
Six Circles.
The speedy convocation of the Six Cir
cles and their furnirfiing my army with
provisions, is the only means of saving Ger
many at the grand crisis. Without this,
it will be .impoflible for me to make my
troops maintain the field any longer againit
the enemy. I (hall not fail, though with
regret, to order them back into my dates,
for their own defence, and to abandon the
Empire to itfelf and to its fate.
It Is in the hands, therefore, of your
Highness that I put the fafety of the Em
pire ; and confident of your wisdom. and
patriotism, I expedl you will employ the
.means which the laws of the Empire give
y,.)-u in such a manner, that nfiy views, di
reist£"l to the good of the country, may be
fulfilled, and that, by ray troops being fup
pfied. witfr provisions, I may be able to as
sure the EVnpire of the most efficacious pro
tection and defence#
Letterfrom the £kßor of Mentz—Feb. 11.
" Your highnek will fee, by the copy
of the letter 1 herewith fend, the manner
of thinking of his the King of
-Prufiia, in thp Angularly dangerous cir
cumstances of the prefenf war, the de
mand he makes of the Empire and of the
fix Froiiiier Circles provificmally. His
Majelty having solicited me, for this pur
pose to proceed to a speedy convocation of
the directors of the said circles, I cannot
fail to pray to your Serene Highness, in
conjun&ioa with the other Prince Direc
tors of the Circles of the Empire, to in
form the High dates of those Circles of
this matter as soon as pofllble, and at the
fame time to fend, by the firft of March
to Franckfort on the main, the Codirec
torial Deputies, with full powers to deli
berate, resolve, and decide, upon what
may be judged convenient, with the minis
ters appointed by his Prufiian Majesty."
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
z , ■' •>
ARRIVED.
Days.
Ship Jean* M'Pherfon, 'Hamburgh 56
Sloop Abby, Eames, Bolton 11
CLEARED.
Brig Mary Etizrbetli, Latimer, St.
Bartholomes
Newbern, N. C.
Schr. Bell, Butts,
Nancy, Kellam, Folly-Landing
Mercury, Weeks, Bolton
Captain M'Cullum in days from Opor
to, informs, that on the 26th of April,
in lat. 36, 26, long. 20, 45, he was
boarded by a Spanish 74 gun ship, on a
cruize from Cadiz, 40 days out, the Capt.
of which, informed Captain M'Cullutn,
that he saw no Algerine during
his cruize on the coaita.
An Inward-bound brigj was seen com
ing into the Delaware Cases, on Mondajf
last—name unknown.
' ■ -
The bill imposing a tax on pleasure car
riages, palled the House this day—also a bill
authoriling and empowering the Prcfidentof
the United States, to lay an Embargo, in the
recess of Congress, if in his judgment, the
public exigencies should render it neceflary—
was palled to be engrofied. A mbtion to add
a fettion providing for the laying an Embar
go from and after the loth of June next,
was almoll unanimoufty negatived.
ERR ATU M.
in the Observer, firft page of yelterday'i
paper, 17th line, for " notified"—read nu
ticedi
A special meeting of the Americin Philo
fophicai society will be he'd at their Hall, oil
Friday evening it seven o'clock ; in order to
ctmfiderand determine onpropofa's made by
Mr. IVale to rent part of the Hall, for the
purpose of accommodating his Museum.
A full meeting of the members is requested;
By order of the President.
R. PATTERSON, Sec'y.
May 49;
HORSES.
Anthony Wechter, living in Third street
near Callowhjli street, at the figri of the
Pennfylvauia Arms No. 214,
HAS FOR SALE,
One Pair
Bright Bay Hories,
6 years old, upwards of 15 hands high—»
and one pair Chefruit Brown with blazes, 4."
y.ars old, about 15 hands high. The terms
will be made known, by applying to Mr,
Wechter. 5t
NEW THEATRE.
Mr. Marshall's Night.
70-MQRROW EVENING,
May 30.
Will be prefentedj
A COMEDY, called
As You like It!
(Written by Shakeipearc.)
Orlando, Mr. Morctcn
Adam, Mr. WhitlocJt
Duke Senior, Mr. Green
Duke Frederic, Mr. Warrell
Amiens, (withfongs) Mr. Marshall
Jaques, Mr. Ci:almcr«
Le Beu, - - —
[ Oliver
, i»lr.
aques de Boic, Mr. Darlty jun
Dennis, Mailer J, Warrell
Jharles, Mr Rowfoi*
Touchstone, Mr. Bates
Conn, Mr. De Moulin
Sylvius, Mr. Cleveland
William, Mr. Francis
Rosalind, (with the Cuckoo fong^
Mrs Marihall
Cel l, Mrs. Francis
Phcebe, Mrs. Cleveland
Audrey, Mrs. Shaw-
End of a<St I, DIBDIN's favorite ballad,
called POOR TOM ; or, the SAILOR's
EPITAPH, by Mr. Darley.
End of the; Play, a comic diflertation on
HOBBY HORSES will be delivered by
Mr. Marihall, in the charaitcr of a Joi-'
key'—descriptive of—The Soldier's Hob
by—The Lawyer's Hobby—The Beau*
H«bby—The Ladies Hobby—The Mana
ger's Hobby—Mrs. Warrell's Hobby—
and Me Own Hobby.
To which will be added,
An OPERATIC FARCE, never perform
ed here, called
Hartford Bridge;
Or the
SKIRTS OF A CAMP.
Sir Gregory Forreller, Mr. Bates
Peregrine Forreller, Mr. Moreton
Captain Fieldair, Mr. Marihall
Captain Forreller, Mr. Cleveland
Cartridge, Mr. Francis
Peter, Mr. Bliflet
Waiter,
Clara,
Sul'an,
Bar Maid,
Soldiers,
Mr. Finch
Mrs. MarlhaH
Miss Wiilemr
Mrs. Rowfon
Meflrs. Warrell, Darlev
jun. T. Warrelf,
Lee, Bason, &c.
Soldier's Lades, Mrs. Cleveland, Mr*.
Finch, Mrs. Bates
Miss Rowfon, fc-.
Tickets to be had of Mr, Marshall, N< .
66, north Eighth street. At Carr and C
Music fliop, and of Mr. Franklin at the
Theatre, where places may be taken.
Mrs. WARRELL's Benefit will be ofi
Monday next.
The Comic Opefa of LIONEL- a>>i*
CLARISSA, with a farce ayil »eterror--
menu.
Mr. Finch
Mr. Harwoodt March, 1 179^-
JUST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Marlct Jlrul,
iJ-E, FIItSTVOLtfIS*E OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography:
OR, A
Geographical, Hiftarical, ana
Commercial Grammar;
And present flute of the leveral
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAIN INC,
1. Tli* figures, motions, and distances of
the planets, according to the Newtonian fyf
' tem and the latest oofervations.
2. A geiierat view of tlie e&rth, confide red
» an a planet; with fevera! ufeful geographical
definitions and problems.
3 The g and (livifinns of the into
land and water, continents and islands.
4. The iituatiou and extent of empires,
kingdoms, Hates, provinces and colonies.
5- Their climates, air, fort, vegetable?,
produftloni, metals, minerals, natural ctiri*
ofi:ies, Teas, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
aud lakes.
* s 6. Tne birds" and beads. peculiar to each
country.
7. Observations on the changes that have
been any where observed upon the face of na
ture since the niiVft earjy periods of history.
8. The and origin of nations ; theii
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
nues, taxes, naval and military strength.
9. The genius, manners, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
10. Their language,learning,arts,faiences,
niauufaftu:es, and commerce.
11. Tiie cnicfcities, ftruttures, ruins, and
artificial ctriofi'ties
12 The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
distances of principal places from Philadelphia.
To wkisk arc added.
1. A Geogr \ phi c a.l Index, with the names
ami places alphabetical))' arranged.
2. A Tablk '«>> the Coins of all nations, and
their value tndpllafs and cents.
3. A Chronologic a l Table of remarkable
events, from the creation to the pre fan t time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, JSJq.
The Piart corrected by
D . Hittenhouse.
To wnich have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herschei-L,
and other eminent Astronomers.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrc&ed, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firft volume contains twenty~one-iVlap?
and Charts, besides two Agronomical Plates,
viz.
1. Map of tiie worlds 2. Chart of the world.
3. Europe. 4 Alia. 5. Africa. 6. South
America. ,7. Cook's difcove ies. 8. Coun
tries roumUthenorth Pole. 9. Sweden, Den
mark, a'nd'Norway. i 3. Seven United. Pro
vinces. 11 Au&rian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Genanny. 13. Seat ot war
inFraice. 14. France divided into depart
ments. iS- Switzerland. :6. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. 17, Spain and Portugal.
• 18. Turkey in Europe And Hungary. 19 Ire
land. Weft-Indies. 2i. Vermont. 22. Ar
millary sphere. 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, winch is now in
the press, will be given the following Maps :
i. Russia iil Eur ope and Alia.
2 Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Polandi
5. China.
6 Hindottan.
7. United States.
8- Briti/h America.
9. State of New-Hampshire.
jO. State of Massachusetts.
11- State of Connecticut.
12. State of Rhode Island.
i - State of New-York.
i 4* State of New-Je . fey.
15. State of Pennfylvariia.
16. State of Delaware.
17- State of Maryland.
18- State-os Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
2o State of North-Carolina.
21. Tfinneffee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia.
TERMS."
1. This work will be computed in two vo-
I utTies.
4. Subscribers pay forr the present volume on
del.very, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (56 cents for boards.)
3. They ma* receive the succeeding volume 1
in tweiny.-four weekly numbers, at a quar
t<fi dollar each, or else, when finifhed, at
the fame pnee as the firft.
4- The fubfeription wiil be raised on the firft
day of June.l 794, to fourteen dollars, ex
clusive of binding.
J. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion ot the work, thev will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding
6. The names of the fubf'tribers will be pub
li(hed as patrons of American literature
arts,and faiences. f
It i. wholly unneceflary to expatiate „ n the
advantage, to American readers, that thisedi
tion possesses, over every imported edition of
any system of Geography extsnt. The add it
tion of maps of the several (Ute , procured a
» very great expense, and from the best ma
terials that.are att#i«abl s , (peaks such fijll
conviftionon thi.sfubjeft, that it would be
difrefpeft to the reader's uoJerftandins to
fupp >fe it requisite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
wo;k have luch maps beenever intro- ,
Th* and additions wVtch ar
,coade 911 this work.,are innumerable, a"d occuj
in every page. The public are referred to
the prefacel*or a flight iketch of a few of
them.
The publjfher takes the present opportu
nity of returning his most thanks to
tiiofe characters who have favored
turn with documents for improving the maps
of faveral of the states. He requefrs a conti
nuance of their fcinduefs $ and hopes that such
public fpirired .citizens, as are poflelTed of li
ni'lar docurn/nts, will favor- him with their
perferting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he has been favored, has excited
in his bread ihe warmest fentuuenti of grati
tude—fen tiin-Nits which time will not iefface.
Hi' pledges to the citizens of the
United States, tofpare neither pains nor ex
penfe to render the present edition of Guthrie's
Geography improved, deserving of their pa
tronage. waftf
NOT I G ET
THE OFFICE >f the S_creta r \ of State is
removed from High Street, to »he New Build
ings, the corner of Sixth 4 Mui erry ftieets
May 15 !w
SHOES.
A quantity of stout well made Men's size
SHOES, adapted-tor the Southern market, fbi
sale at
No. 36, North Third Jlreet.
May 6 irtw&fiot
NANKEENS.
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
FOR SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April 21. mw&ftf
ESSENCE
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold by Dr. Lee, Golden-
Square, London.
THE public is offj ed ole of the most
efficacious and fafe medicines, thut ever ap
peared, for that most excruciating pair, the
Toorli-Ache—the numerous inftaHces of its
happy effects,'in reliev nr the affli&ed, have
now brought t into u iij erfal efi iln at ion ; it
noto ;lv relieves the toot 1 ) ache, but is of the
"urmoft service in curing the SCURVY in the
Gums, in preventing the difagnceable smell
that is produced from unfou'id tse h, & wi-JJ
occasion a sweet hrpath j it I kcsvife prevents
the teeth from decaying, and will b - found
a general prefervei of the leeth and Gums
S 'ld (itily at
PoynteWs Stationary Store,
No. 2i, Second street.
April 24. tuth&s 3W
Ground Plan
OF THE
City and Suburbs
OF
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM ACTUAL SURyET.
IT is with pleasure that the publisher has to
info: m his fubferiberiand the public in penr
ral, that the plate ,s now under the hands o<
the en j raver, and in greater forwardnfs than
was at si ft contemplated. - At the fame fimc
lie begs leave to r mind them, rh.'t subs. lip
t'on papers are still open at most of the noted
book-stores 111 the city ; and that he hopes
from the whole of them to be en.ibled to so m
such a refpeftable ca'alogue of names, as wi l !
do a creiht to the work, as well as afford a
reasonable encouragement ty the undertske.i
Thole who are delirous of further informa.
tion are requested to tall no
Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, Market (Iree t.
A P ril '4- m&thtf
freafury Department.
XT May n ' th ' 1 794-
NUIICE is hereby given, ths* Pi ouofals
will be revived at the Office ot the Comm-f
---fioner of the Revenue, for Ship Timbei of
the following kinds, suitable lor the building
of the Frigates authorized by Law. A par
ticular detail of the sizes and proportions will
Offic™' nUniC * ted ' 0 " a PP lication at the said
White Oak Timber and Plank.
98 Pieces of various Dimeofions, inelud
""B Floor and Riling Timbers,
&c. for a VefTel 01*140 or 150 feet
Keel.
. 2 7,000 Feet of Plank, Scantlinf, Wal
£ P'eces, Bilge St . eak , Clamps, &c. &e .
Si 200 various uies.
Pitch Pine.
25,000 Feet of Plank lor Decks.
0 2>o Beams,from 42 to 28 feet long, and
* from .0 by 12 to ,5 by 18 inches thro'.
50,000 Locust 1 reeoails, 18, 24 and qo
inches long. J
j 000 Feet of Inch and half-inch Cedar
Boards.
33,000 Feet of Yellow Pine Boards and
Scantling.
=i^ err T"- s r illine to fu i'P'y an y P art ° f tue
101 "the- "I tor ° I,e Sh 'P) or in proportion
W , ° e f,X ' wiU raake their Pro, ofals
ccordmgly. tt 4 3 u-
/
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
several of which have appeared in circulation
within a few days pajl; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, hut may
he dj/lihgui/hcd by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of tb; Batik of the
United. States*
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is smaller
than the M* and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of th£ M. would extend con
(iderably above the range of whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than th# reft of the bill
The i and fin the word promise are not
parallel, the yinclining much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the (hokes
ot all the Letters are stronger and the devi e
in themargin particularly ismuch coarfcr and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
of the counterfeits bear date in 1791 —Where-
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were ifTued in
ihat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank ofjNorth
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B tor their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above dcfcribed ; the engraving is bettei exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine hills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Ttccn
t\ 9 in the body of ihe bill, are lnnumhei th r
teen in the genuine b<lis, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar B Hs as defer ibed a
bove, the 0 being lels than the m t and others
folio wing.
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is, well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Tuienty y to the
left hand at the bottom, do not.Come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Ttu and go
ing below them.
The lignature J Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamb-black and
01, and ditiers h:mi a»her inks uCtrO in
printing the bills and the oalhicr's' iiguature.
It is fuppoied these forge;ics were committed
in some of ths Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come from
theocc, and two persons have been apprehend
ed in Virgima ( cyi suspicion of being ihe author
of them.
The reward CTTF. THOUSAND trait, /tKS
will be paid to any Peifon or P< «sons who {haN
difeover and prdfecute to convidt oir the several
offenders of the following defniptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or pcrfons, who manufa&ured
the paper on which the Bills are printed.
The person or persons, who -engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills,
fcvciy person who has a&ed as a principal in
any othci way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
Philadelphia, Match 28, 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the United States have appeared
ill circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical maik is the let
ter B.
1 hey may be diflinguiftied from the genu
ine by the following MARKS :
The paper of ihe counterfeit? is of a more
tender texture at«j gloil'ey fmface than the
genuine, and. there is no water mark in them.
Tlie letter C. in the word Caihier, in the
true bills is strongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, ihe whole letter is a fine hair
itroke, evidently in an uiifinifhed state. The
letter a in the word demand, is badly formed
and tiie whole -word ill dohe, and there is no
comma at the end of it, as there is~in the
genuine bills.
, 'marginal device, is much darker in
1e „ » t ' ,an " le genuine bills owing to
t e fliade flrokes being coarser, much nearer
ogether, and conlequently much morp nu
merous. This difference strikes the eye at firft
view. J
nnr h r I 3 rcward of ONE THOUSAND
LARS, will be paid for apprehending, ic
profecucing to convi&ion the several above
►w' ( ? ffcnders i" 'efpeft to this, as to
the laftdefcribed bills.
THOMAS WILLING, P.efident
ol the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, Prcfidcnt of the
Bank ot North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
peftive Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
TN an eligible fituation,—-alio a Country Seat
i- within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
iand, or 42 acfes of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded bymany in the vicinity
ol the city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
m&ttf
3 Beef, Porkj and Butter* |
J BEE?, prime and cargo ot good quality
y POKK, prime and cargo of liol
2 > BURLING!O-N TORK
BUTTER, in firkin's
f " ' ALSO,
V A CARGO OF
MAHOGANY,, .
Landing at John Weft's Lumber Yarn, near
Pool's Bridg., from on board the Fail Ameri
can, from the Bav of Honduras, and
f. 3000 bushels of Good Wheat
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SKTRIN,
No. 35, No. Water St reet.
:r May 15. d , 2J
Just Piibliflied,
A one handsome volume, nmo, Pries 5s
i. AMD FOR SALE BY
>• JOHN ORMROD,
, t 4t Franklin's Head, No. 41, Cbefuut
J Stre't,
AN ESSAY ON THE
I Natural Equality of Men
d On the Rights that result from it) and on the
e Duties which it impbfes.
To MEDAL wis adjudged, by the
1 Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Corrected and Enlarged.
h By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN
D. D. '
, f Proleflbr of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
oi Nature, and of Ecclcfiaftical Hiftorj ;
r and Minister of tiie Engiifh Chu.ch at IL
s trecht.
Aliquid semper ad communtm utilitatem af
ferendum Ctcero.
T/m Firjt American Edition.
. '"pHEgrand principle of Equality, if rjght
i. iy understood, is the only basis 011 which
11 U'liverlal juilice, sacred o-der, and perfect
freedom, can bediintly bYii'.t,aijd permanent
2 ty secured. The view of ,t exhibited in this
clfay, at the fame time that it reprefles the
infoletice of office, the tyranny ofjinde, and
the outrages of opprefli.m ; confirms, ... the
nioft forcible nianner, the necelfity of fubor- '
dination, and the just deruands of la*ful au
thority. So tar indeed, frpm Ipofeni. g the
-bands ol fyciety, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftinftion,
draws more clo'ely every social tit, unites in
one harmonious and juflly proportioned fyf
teni, and brings men together pn tfce even
ground of the inherent vights of human »a- , «
ture, of reciprocal obli ation, and of a com
mon relation to the<(dhiaunity.
March 18. ' t,,tf
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the Houfe^ojßepresentatives,
1) E C fc. MR E K 2 1 it. 1 793.
TT/HEREAS the Commiflioni rs of public
- —V V _j&££QliJ3is,.iJ..A.v ihai they can
not proceed 10 the in ligation of tW Tieafury
Accounts, refp-fting fprcia! Indents, without
k'nowmg the.ou:Handing amount thereof in cir- s
culation:—Therefore, m
Hefolved, That ail holders of special lirdrnt®
be dire&ed, and rtquirvo, on or before ihc firft
day of Novorubc ri xf, to deliver the fprtcial In
dents in their ppflVfljon to orre or othet of the
ConmuiTioiit's of Trcafgry, who are to give
receipts for the 1 :mc, and to'rep >ix to the Com
miiiioriers on public accounts, on or befoie the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
them refpe&iveJy received, and also to the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next,
and that alj special Indents not rendered into
the Tieafury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, lhall bt, and the fame are
heieby barred.
Rejolved, 1 hat public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this Slate,
once every three weeks, umil the firft day of
November next. And that the Delegaics of this
State in the Congrels of the United Slates, be re
queued to cause this ri folutioh to be publiftied
in on< or roo« e papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made lor the expences attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
•folate tor their concurrence.
Bv order of the House,
JOHN DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
December 21#, 1793.
Resolved, That this House do concur with the
Houle of Repiefcntatives in the foregoing reso
lution s.
Ordered, That, the refirhitions be sent to the
House ol Reprefentarives.
by order of the Senate.
FELIX WARLtY, Clerk.
ewtNov.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-ftrect, New-York.
THE Subfciiber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, h<gs leave to of
trr his fervicesto his friends and others, in the
line o( a Slock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depmd
upon having it tranfa&ed with the urmoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders hom Philadelphia, Boflon ? or any
other part of the United States, \si»ll bf ftriftly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKLR.
m&ihtt
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN TTENNO, No 3
South Fourth-Street.