EVENING A D Y E R T I S E R.
[No. 147 of Vol. V-] Tuesday, June 3, i 79 4.. [Whole No. 54^/
.JAMAICA RUM,
LANDING at Hamilton's wharf, above
■Ah? Drawbnd*e, out ot' f e (hip Bacchus
Cent- Vakbemas, fiom Jamaica,
tv:i SALE BY.
PETER BLIGHT.
16. ' d
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY and FRENCH
BURR STONES,
FOR SALE BY
Gurney and Smith.
May 14. d
Agreeably to notice, a
meet irig of the Subscribers to ilre Articles of
Agreement of the C >lumbian Society, was
thi< day !»eld at Mr. Richa»detV, for the pur
pofc "f chufing Managers, &c. when the fol
loiving perf>nc were chosen :
Robert Morris, Preft dent.
MANAGERS* " "
James Greenleaf
\TriJlram D alt on,
John Nich'olfon
CaUb Lamines,
Thomas Fitzjtmons.
James Wilfoti,
F. A. Muhlenberg,
V/alter Ste*wa't,
John Hall,
Richard SocUrftrom,
Nathaniel W. Applet on.
Treasurer.
Garreti Coit ringer.
Congress of the United States,
In Senate, Tuefaay May I yh, 1794.
ORDERED, that Rufus Putnam, Mana.-
fah Cutler, Robert Oliver and Griffin
Green, do, upon the third Monday of Decem
ber next, ihevr cause to tfie Senate, why so
much of th' grants of land to them the said
Rufus Putnam, Man a (Tab Cutler, Robert
% Oliver and Grilfin Green, pursuant to an Afr
eu-utltxL" An' acl authorizing the J5 r ar»t ard
)|>sny of aVociate",' 1, (hail not he declared
void, as may interfere with and be fufficient
w to fatisfy the claims of the French settlers
at Galliopolis.
Orrieied, that the delivery of a copy of
the above u*drr to Rufus Putnam, Manaffab
Cutler, Ro: ert Oliver, or GrifH.i Green, and
the publication of the fame, one .nonih, in
one of the Gazettes printed in this City, Shali
be licensed fujiicicnl • otice'tfeteof.
Extra# from the Journals of Senate.
Attell,
SAM. A. OTIS, secretary.
May 14. "»■'
REMAI N I N G
S OF THE
Ship India's Cargo,
FROM
BENGAL.
A small alFortment of
BALE GOODS,
250 bags COTTON of good quality, which
would probably make an excellent remit
tance to Europe, and a
Quantity of PEPPER
For Sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Who has also to dispose of
Barcelona Hand'fs. in boxes,
Holland Gin in caff,
SoUchong, WyCiUi, and Tonkay Tea,
A quantity of B» imltone, &c.
May iO d3w
Guthrie's Geography improved.
THE fubferjption lor this work on the ori
ginal terms, of twelve dollars and the bind
ing, wil: be doled this day—and on Monday
the fubferipuon will open at fourteen dollars,
exclusive of t ie price of bit ding.
The new maps added to, this edition are
twenty ooe ; anions; »hich are those of {i rw .
Hamplh.re, Maflachufetts, Connecticut
Rliode-Hland, Vermont, N'cw York, New
Jer fey, PennfyKania, Deiawaie, Maryland
Virginia, Kentucky, Notth Carolina, the
eneffee Government, South Carolina, and
Georgia. These maps have never been given
in any former system of Geography, and, it
is liopcd, wou'd alone be fufficient to entitle
this work to a preference to any other edition
of Guthrie.
N. B. The map of the United States
w'lich is Compiling by Mr. S riiuel Lewi!,from
the refpeftive state maps, will be far more
complete than any one yet published, and be
printed on two large Sheets of paper, nearly
the Size of the late Mr. Murray's man.
May 3 « d
For Sale or Charter,
The Schooner
o l l y,
Burthen loto barrels.
SHii a (launch fact failing new ve(P I,welT
founi, and ready £or any voyage, feithcr to
Europe, or th.-Weft Indies. For terms ap
ply to
DEBLOIS BRECK.
At their Store, between Walnut and Chefnut
(Ircet wharves.
May 23 d
For Charter,
To the Weft India J'/lands,
The new Sloop
A B B Y,
Samuel Eamfs, Master.
SHE is a staunch gf>od in compleat
order, and will carry about 900 barrels. For
terms apply to thecapt ain on i»oaid at Chcl
|UK ft eet wharf, or to
JOSEPH ANT HO NT fe? SON.
June 2 Iw
Lady Walterftorff,
Edward Broock, Master.
BURTHEN i7OO baire'S, lalJsf.ft, and it
in complcat order to take in a caigo iuinnd .
atelv.
Also for Sale or Charter,
Two New SHI PS of the but then of 240 tons
each. For terms applv o
JOSEPH SIMS,
IVho has for /ale,
Madeira and Sherry Wines,
ot tiie si if qua it , Brandy, Red and Pale
Jeiu ts Ba:k, &c. See.
June 2 ' d
To-Morrow Morning,
Will he lanoed near Walnut llieet * iia f.from
. the fcho;>wer Mad.fnn l-,c 'p„ _
Sweet Mountain WINE t
% * m quarter caiks
Soft (helled A monds in {acks
Mu feat el Raisins, in jars and
B'o )in Do. in quarter barrels^
A few 7 inch $a s CabJes
ANIS FOR SALE BY
peter kuiin.
June 2 d6t
FEATHERS and FLOWERS
Fans, Black Lace, Window Glass, and
R I 'C E,
FOR SALE BY
Louis Ofmont.
No. 117, north SecondJlreet.
May 31 dtf
Excellent CLARET,
In hogsheads and in cases oi 50 bottles cach.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111, South Front ltreet.
Jan. 2, 1794. dtf
HORSES.
Anthony Wechtef, living in Third street
near Callowhill street, at the sign of the
Pcnnfylvania Arms No. 214,
HAS FOR SALE,
One Pair
Bright Bay Horses,
6 years old, upwards of 15 hands high—
and one pair Chefnut Brown with blazes, 4
years old, about 15 hands high. The terms
will be made known, by applying to Mr.
Wechter. "
ADVERTISEMENT.
OF the money robbed from the mail near
Baltimore, by Do<stor Gant, iio dollars were
afterwards sent by an unknown hand, to the
Poltmafter at Baltimore, who transmitted
the fame to the General Post Office. The fuf
terers by that robbery are desired to state the
amount of their lofles respectively, and trauf
mit the fame, with the originaltetters of their
correspondents 'ecovergd) or other
evidence thereof to the General Post Office
before the firft day of June next, immediate,
ly after which a dividend will be made among
the Claimants.
TIMOTHT PICKERING,
Pojl Majler General.
Gen. Post Office, April 4, *794 iaw6w
It is Requested,
THAJ no person wi.j fupplv any articles
the " re «» f t"e New Theatre, without an
Older m writing, iign;d byoutfelves, or Sam
uel Anderfon, for us.
WIGNELL & REINAGLE.
Ma.v dt .;
yiil perfo?is who have any de
matKls upou the New Tneatr,, are , equert
eg* * «"d tn t'teir accounts to No. 204, in
Arc I (Irett, near Eighth street, as foou as
couvenit »t.
WIGNELL & REIN \GLE.
dtf.
A PLAIN COOK.
WANIED a middle aged f.ngle Woman,
W - underitaWsplain Cooking; to Such a one
the bejt -wages civil I be given.
A.> ( »ly t the Printer.
M -'> 3' ' , or
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Mai ket-Strect,
An Jjllay on Slavery,
Deigned to exinbit in a new point ol view
us ~!<«, on mvijis, inJ u J!ry, and the trace of
! . c '' Some tatls and calculations are otiereri
to prove the labor oijreemen .0 be much more
pronnoivc than that ot JUvcs ; that counirirs are
i.e., and happy, m prgpottion as the
.aboru,g people enjoy the Iruits of their own
lat.o. ; and hence the n ceffaty eondufion, that
Mavcry is impolitic hs well as unjujl.
Pr ics 25 Cents. dtf
February 15. ,
W A N L E D,
A Journeyman Printer,
Enquire at No. rf, uorth Fiith ftiect,
May 3 1
Fvl .AiJLidrt, T ~~ "
j
POil 1 , WINES of the firft quality
Llb2ON, & I J J
TENEKIFFEJ
OI J Jamaica Spirit, Antigua and Weft India
iiTuQi-
Claret ar.u rort WlilC 0! d lupuuwi .
in cases.
Win: CVder and Vinegar, in pipes and hhds.
•Jorks in Bates, Havannaii Segai s in Boxes.
Philadelphia Porter, in Calks and Bottles.
London do. in do. do.
Puiiadwlphia Ale and Beer in do. do.
London do. in do. do and
■Jyder :n barrels and bottles, preparedforex
portation or immediate use,
FO.R. SALE BY
Benjamin W* Moris,
7Vjj corner of Hock and Pear Jl'reets,
Wlijre he lias provided Suitable itores and
vaults, for the reception of
WINES, &c.
Which he propoies to llore or dijpofe of on
commlfllon
Gaptainsof vefTels and others fupplicdwith
rvny ot the aboveLIQUORS bottled, and lea
stores in gene al put up.
May 9 tu&f2m
freafury Department.
Revenue-Office, May ~jth, 1794.
NOTICE is he.eby given, that
will lie received at the Office of the Commif-
Sioner of the Revenue, for Ship Timber of
the following kinds, suitable for the building
ol the Frigates authorized by Law. A par
ticular detail oS the ftzes and proportions will
b oc immunicated, on application at the laid
Offic;.
White Oak Timber and Plank.
98 Pieces of various Dimensions, includ
ing Keels, Fluor and Riling Timbers,
&c. for a Vcirel of 140 or 150 feet
Keel.
27,003 Feet of Plank, Scantling, Wal
<u pieces, Bilge St eakr, Clamps, &c. &e
200 Logs, for various ules.
C Pitch Pine.
* 25,000 Feet of P ank for Decks,
u 210 Beams, from 4a to 28 feet long, and
£ from iO by 12 to 15 by 18 inches thro'.
W ——
Locust Treeilail?, 18, 24 and 30
inches long.
5,00g Feet of Inch and half-inch Cedat
Board*.
30,000 Feet of Yellow Pine Boards and
Scantling.
Perform willing to I'upply any part of tqc
above Timber for one Ship, or in proportion
fj» the w iole fit, will make their Proposals
accordingly. tth&3 w
NANKEEN S.
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
FOR. SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
Foreign Intelligence.
es _____
LONDON, April 3.
The John ;ind James, Johnson from Vir
ginia to Falmouth, and from thence to a
market, is carried into Brest.
Yesterday Field Marshal Freyta? had a
r. ham a houfer VICW " ***•
in [ quadr ° n . at To ' ba y confifU
18 tKri ( f PS a the Une > tw ° hoipital-dnps,
four c!I« nme fr 'S ates » flvc flocps,
tour cutters, and two! advice boats for ex-
J>refs purposes.
1 he intelligence communicated by us, a
few days Cnce, that the Brest fleet/ to 1 e
* S 1 . 01 1# ™of the line, are at sea, in
iffss&ysr*"*
, been captured by four French lh.ps of tl e
line, and sent into Brell.
Q r akC '' T kh '^ lei '' boun d from Cc I
Brest W !" L ch , Wds carried a Fize in o
• , ) ' had barrel-beef and pork 011 board to
the amount oi 10,000.
1 he execution of Hebert and the reft at
Pans only took up eighteen minutes.
A body of troops has been sent from Par s
VendeT° re '° extirpate the Rebels of La
April 7.
We yesterday received the Paris Gazetts
fearn b w"
learn, that fcvcral perlons of rank in the
armies haye been arrested, on suspicion < f
beeing in correlpondence with the cenfpira
tors lately executed in Paris.
We have letters -from Oftend dated the
evening of the 4 th, v,h.ch simply mention
?n Vth n> "7 h <W ened in
since tue lali: advices given in our paper of
Saturday, but there are certain aS in
Kelf'it. ?° yahfi has a g ain
Uelf m great force, and is a&ually in po f.
fcriou of the Fauxbourgs of Nam -s.
expedition agairUt the Vrtiicll. -LUJ'll JUMl'l '
and Lord Cathcart are also in town, and it
is said, that some grand and general attack
is in agitation.
Letters from Jersey, dated the ift inft.
state that all is quiet there.
We have great reason to doubt the truth
of the report of the French fleet being at
fca; as none of our cruizers have seen or
heard of any furh circumstances.
The whole fofce of the opposition writers
is now'dircilcd to separate the King of Prus
sia from the Combined Powers, and make
hiin a friend to that Convention which has
avowed it will never lay down its amis until
it tears the crown from his head,and unmo
narchs all his dominions. If the feceilioit of
the King of Prufliabe, therefore, a fact, ei
ther his Maiefiy must be a , or the
French Convention liars.
The repo.t which Hated the death of
the Emperor Francis, created a general,
alarm, the more so, probably, from the
general belief that the Grand Duke of
Tufcany is not so averse to the Frencli
j principles as his present majesty.
The difaffe&ed prints, idly afiert that
f the peuple of America, are afixiuus for a
• rupture with this country, to obtain re
] dress for the injury they have sustained bv
1 their vefiels, &c. In the present state of
America; a war would be the way, of all
others leall calculated to renumerate their
lofles.
It is remarkable, that no Gentleman
has as yet nndertaken to giye the world
a parrallel between the measures which
: took place in the reigns of. the two
Charles's and James's, of glorious memo
ry, and those which have lately occurred :
3 Perhaps the reason may be, that it is fuf
ficient to open the volumes of Hiilorians
who have written an account of the house
2 of Stuart; and every reader mu'l percieve
an exadt cvrrefpondence between those e
vents and the present. However we trust
d the catastrophe will be different.
Mr. Hamilton Rowan is lodged in so
foul and unhealthy a dungeon in Dub
lin, that we are cor.cemcd to hear, that
5 the health of this good and humane man,
is on the decline. Were he to survive big
confinement, there is no doubt but th t he
would be returned the representative for
the Metropolis in the room of Mr. Giit
tan. It lhould be recolle&ed, that She-G! flare}, the apothecary, & paragraph ;
♦ titer to every Adminillration, has tins
unfoitui.ate Gentleman in cultody.^
At an elegant entertainment given at
the London tavern by the American mer
e-Urns to Mi Pinckney, tl>e American
Minilter, the fcoJipany Was numetbus and
rcfpefoble-, about 200 gentlemen lat
down to dinner. The chair was taken
by Philip Sanfom, Esq. and }he day pal
led with a degree of order, harmony, and.
conviviality, exceeding every thing of
the kind we have before witnelfed. Ihe
Ring, Prince of Wales, Qileen and Roy
al Family, with many other loyal and con
ititutional toalts were drank : and among
others suited to the occation —the PreJi
dgnt of the United States, was given by
the Chairman, who introduced it by an
elegant and juit compliment to. the cha
racter of Gerural IVaJbiiigton, which was
highly approved and applauded. -This
was, followed by another toad from the
Chairman, "prosperity to the commerce of
Great Britain and America, and perpetu
al f: iendihip between the two Countries",
which wasreceived with a burst its applanfe,
expieflive of the unanimity and friendlhip
of all the company present.
His Majesty's Ministers were invited &
would have been present, had they not
been obliged to attend their duty in both
Houses of Parliament.
The new American invention of the Sea
Letter seems a pretty fair earnest of what,
may be. expected from tlioie ftatei>, if they
have but the prudence to abftftm from in
volving themselves ip tlie disputes of Europe
» till the/ have acquired a navy and a popula
tion fuffitient to tnabie them to enter the
lias wiiu etlecti
E/.traß of a letter from Milan, March 11.
<< We have just received the pleasing in
telligence, that the whole of the liland of
Corlica is now in poffelEon of the Englifli ;
an'd that the Briuth and white flags are Hy
ing at Baltia, Calvi, &c. None of the par
ticulars have transpired."
FEMALE FASHION.
Spring has brought a variety of wantoft
fafhions in her train \—The robes moil worn,
are alternately the Ottoman, and Veltae la
Graecq. The turban cap still remains with
rrnrinl dliiim rn' 'irfr* • ''""f jirr.
low arc moil prevalent.—The hair, confined
to no fixed mode, U tolled about in all pos
sible directions, according to the whim of
the wearer.
Their looks no more the golden fillet binds,
But fly diforder'd with the wanton winds !
Curricle Veils, of immense depth, are
worn by every class of female whips, in the
act of charioteer ng through the streets. The
undress small bonnets, with green fattin rib
bands, cut to imitate graft, are uhiverfally
worn: The clocks to lilk Itockings, in the
haut ton, are invariably the fame colour as
the ribband to the head-dress—the petticoats
are fliortened about fix inches of late, for the
difptay of this happy unison of colour.— Boot
shoes are still worn—but caprice is introdu
cing a kind of sandal {hoe, laced with rib
band, which will probably supplant the form
er.
Stays are totally thrown afidewhere
the Grecian zone is sported so prcpofterouflv
' rUe fltuat . ion > various devices are
praclifed so as to give an apparent protube
rance, both above and below, where nature
is thought to have been rather niggardly in .
her dispensations—The Manchdfer people,
it stems, have fortunately a briflc trade in the
• manufacture of thele cotton counterfeits !
ekgant undress has been hit off, be
-22? r? ! W ° yell ß above-mentioned, which
totally difclanmngthe artificial wares of Man
chester, gives the fulled display ps the neck
to the enamoured graces—By this class of
unceremonious Belles, the exhibition of na
hkiv l ' P f,' nte f as wcll natural, i,
likewile generally adopted.
Kedrieiday, a bullock, was killed—He
T „ JS ft eet 4 lnch es high —20 feet long, fat
diriarv D be7 gUC *° P° Undi " Thi * extraor
-1 COURT OF COMMON PLEAS
guildhall. '
V. PAGE AUD OTHERS.
The following intending cause to the
public was tried before Sir J ameß Eyre'
Knight, and a fpecal Jury. The ast ion
was brought by Mr. Pallifer, againlhPajje
!kM fflu Wh J °T are the P ro P r 'etors of
the Sheffield and LaedsMail Coach, tore
cover iatisfaction in da«nam»« £** : •
done to the Plaintiff's Wife, than,gl,"neg
ligence of tlieDnver and the Guard leav
ing M.s..Pa lifer , n the coach while they
ktVu ? Pub!:c h<,ufc
-Sheifr ldand Leeds, there being no other
p eugtrs, or a,l y person to take caie of
the liures, v-hich took fright, by which
accident Mr. Palhler had her leg broke,
aftd 'in all probability vvilt be %/ripple du
ring hei life. ,
T'.ie Judge gave a very, humane and
learned charge to the Jury, who, to the
fatisfadlion of a veiy crowded Court,
found a Verdia for the Plaintiff—Dama
ges, 5601. ,
COPENHAGEN, March 4.
It W.IS at firft thought that the catastrophe
of the conflagrailm of the castle of Chrifti
anibourg, would have interrupted the prQ
grefs of our naval armament lor the protec
tion of our commerce;..hut this very m.s
fortune has fo-mach roused the spirit and
■ patriotifin. of the inhabitants, that they are
railing a subscription tending to ftiengthen
the king's treasure, and to carry .on those
preparations with dill greater I
The number bf persons who pefifhed in
the conflagration of the royal palace amdunt
to one hundred and thirty.
LEYDEN, March 17.
A Prufiian journal contains the following
P a ragraph:
" N'otwithftanding the great preparations
making every where for the opemug of tkc
next campaign, private intelligence has been
received, which holds forth some hopes of
a reconciliation, or at least, of a truce."
■ PARIS, March 3 I.
THe' conspirators who wtre executed on
the in the morning, displayed each of
them a different character. Hebert evinced
much weakness and imbecility; Momoro
was firm ; Ronfm insolent; Ancard impe
tuous ; and Vincent calm and refighed. Tht-y
denounced Pache, thtj ci-devant Mayor;
Henriot, the Commandant General ; and
Chaumette, the Procurator Syndic. Lullier,
the Procurator-General of the Department,
is said not to have been implicated in the
plot, but to have been put under arrest mere
ly 011 account of having inserted in the
lilt of. the jurors 'for criminal causes, the
name# of several fufpedted persons.
Six officers belonging to the garrison of
Maubeuge have just been brought before the
Revolutionary Tribunal, cn a charge of hav
ing refufed to march agaioft the enemy.
Nineteen others have been iiuprifoncd 011
the fame charge.
On the 29th infb'nt, the Revolutionary
Tribunal pafled sentence of death on Fran
cois,,Poiret, Serjeant at Arms of the Conven
tion, for having communicated the plans of
the government to the Englilh ; on Courtin,
merchant and Agent to Count de 1' Aigle ;
and on Colignen a printer of Metz; con
victed of having printed counter-revolution
ary writings.
Vaffan, Mayor of Seden ; Lambert, prin
cipal commiflary of the army of the Arden
nes, and several others, are on their way to
the capital, m suspicion of their being im
plicated in -tne late conspiracy.
For the Gazette of tht United States.
Mr. Fenno,
There is a propensity in our nature that
I inclines every man, even the molt profli
gate, to wish his neighbor to think
ast as he does himfelf; and it would be a
great happiness for mankind if those who
maintain the bell doctrines or tenets, were
the moll industrious in endeavoring to pro
pagate them. The contrary however is
too often the cafe.
To apply these truths tp the present
politics of the United States; we find at
the molt critical juncture of our public
affairs, when felf preservation calls aloud
foi temper, union, and the whole force
and power of the nation, a number of de
ligning men who are the grand movers of"
a certain party, and some of them receiv
ing either a salary or daily pay from the Na
tional or State Treasuries, empkiying a
large portion of their time in wriHng pam
phlets, addrefies for focietios, letters and
pieces for the papers, all calculated to
mislead the public mind, subvert the ne
ceflary measures of government; and if
polhble, deftroythe confidence of the peo
ple, even in a Wajhington.
The objedt these men have in view is
to bring about a revolution of men or mea .
Jurei, or both—getthemfelves and friends
completely into power, and polTefs the
reigns ot government. It matters not to
them which they accomplish firil, because
they believe their ends would be answered
in ether cafe. This being the leading con .
hderat.on in all their politics, etery circum
stance that occurs in the course of events
is attempted in some way or other to be
made subservient to that end ; and it is
sincerely believed they would freely involve
this happy country in all the calamities of
war, or even put the very exillence of the
conlhtution and government to the utmost
hazard, rather than fail in their defies
and ni hopes t>f by a scheme I
of anarchy and coufuUon. • in-'
Thole very, men or their predeceilors
have been conilantly employed in endea
voting to Itir up a spirit of discontent and
uneafiiiefs, but the wisdom an.d prudence
of the government aided by the wbergoed
sense of the people, has in a great mealure
baffled their designs ; and had it not been
for the wait between France and England
and its consequent evils, they would long
since have been at a loss for fubje&s of a
nimadversion or materials to. with.
It waS found ifcat an oppofitwn to the
coiillitutipn would be np longer lillened to,
that the fiibjedls of the bank, funding ly*-
tem, and exciffc were become raihei ilale,
at least that they would not Jo hngly tr
alone to inflame the pailions; hence Frcr.ch
politics were laid hold of \yith cabernets
by all hands, and a bold attempt madt,
under, as I may fay, the administration
of Mr. Genet in the course of kit summer,
to drag us immediately into a war wit'u
England, either by an aggreflion on the
part of bur'citizens, or to provoke one
from her; contrary to the sense of the
President and every sober man in the Uni
on, and wlien there was neither any jufl
cause or obligation whatever . exiting.
How far their proceedings may have in
fluehced the late conduct of the British
court, it is impossible to fay, but we know
certainly that their politics have been in
jurious to this country.
Unfortunately the Bty'tiTh are foolifh
and wicked enough to do the very thing
these people wish, and they are only un.
easy at present, leuit the business of war
(hfluld be impeded by negotiation or a re
turning good difjiofition on the part of
Britain. These are the patriots who op
pose their politics to, and endeavor to per
suade u3 to distrust the man that fconduft
ed us with fafety through the tempeits of a
revolution and l'even years war ; when fume
of the champions and of the pre
fect day were either indulging in youthful
pleasures, or paying homage to a British
governor, and v.'ho in cafe of real danger
would probably be found only in a place
of fafety.
A prejudice with regard to ancient
forms of government, heightened by the
aTpfflTßr 'altgfijl - ■
tions, has led some of. us to think too
lightly of the real ules of religion and gc- „
vcrnment to society. Like men in a (late
of intoxication, we are displeased with
those who retain and cxercife 'kfi' reason,
and call them by the rf
peciuity if the% are public officers. This (late
of the public mind, the artful antfdffign. ,
ing politician takes advantage of to pro
mote his views of ambition and revenge ;
and it may be relied upon as a fadl, that
disturbing the peace of a nation, or the
deftrudtion of a government, are but small
obflacles in the way of such partisans:
therefore the people will make their elec
tion.
It seems to be the wish of the party to
engage in a war with the combined pow
ers without any kind of prepaiation to
carry it on, and to take chance for railing
ways and means afterwards bv laws to be
adapted to the occasion and circuniftan- ;
ces, according to modern usage.
AN AMERICAN 7 .
For the Gazkt tr of the United St At ex.
Ma. Fenno,
Please to publi/h thi inclof-.1, a: lam too
impatient to ivait a moment, the expnf
fton gf my applause, for the publication,
•which occajions this.
A DEMOCRAT.
2d June, I 794.
To the Editor of the General Advertiser,
Sir,
our paper of this morning, deserves
honorable mention—and by all true Demo
cratic Societies (hall have it. Your Cor
respondents have hitherto been actuated
by a little too much timidity in their at
tacks upon the President, and have rather
attributed his bad conduct too evil coun
sellors ; but this morning, the attack is
bravely, and without disguise, aimed at
the President; and, in addition to this,
it is infinitely well-timed, they know the
iubjedt of a bill, defining certain crimes
andpuni/hments, was to come before Con
giefs this day. I like to fee such virtu
ous exertions so popped in upon the fac
tion ; it will confound them and help our
iide, in Congress, to arguments.
Another happy mode they have adopted, .
that js, denominating the majority of Con.
grefs « fiiflion, now that dcferves more
honorable n,ci;;.on than any thing they
have done before, no rr.aitti how nume
rous they are, so long as they difagrec
with our Society—, them *..faflion
If- all Congrcf; unite—call them a fac
tion. It our precious ones in
Congress are few; but is not a gteat fac
tion Worfc than a little one, or a nufae
rous faction worll of all ? I once thought
our Editor had become temifs, and had
forgotten 0411 declining cause—but this
morning, he lias" not only atoned for pafl;
neglcft, but laid up in [lore a rich fund
of lupcrerogation. I Ihall move a resolve
in his favor, the next meeting of our so
ciety, What, fuffci' CojigreJs and the
Prehdent to go on con flit u'ionally, to
make laws, whether we like thein or not >
No, no, gird up your loins, and do not
let us fail,, as the patriotic Captains and
1 Mates did, vVho unitedly agreed one even
■ng not to go to lea, and feparats'.y die
next day, actually went.
From the Baltimore Daily inleUigtnur.
The REMEMBRANCER—iVo. I.
Of late it has become fafhionable, in
certain companies, to throw out the giof
felt abide agaiiil'c Cotigtefs, and to consider
that body as having fubmiited but too
patiently to very flagrant injuflfcs.
In trying this charge we ihall take it
for granted, that Great Britain has en
couraged and aided the forages to destroy
our frontier inhabitants ; set the Al
gerines upon 11s ; and ipade Algeiines of
her own ittbjefts in tfie Weft Indies, to
annoy, uul; il poilible, aiiiiiliilate our
ttadc : And, further, that her'ministry
have only waited for. a good pretext, that
might Unite her own people againli this
country,. to' commence open and actual
war. W will allo iuppofe, that the de
predations commuted by Great Britain,
on our trad and territory, would jullify
the United States 111 recurring to arms.
The United States being thus threat
ened with wat by Great Britain, we as
sert that it was a duty of CohgrtiJ to en
ter upon preparations to meet it.
What, :n this ''- nation of things, have
n ... diiicu' Have they heinuuatri- ,
maus to pr..mSfc'ac.-.jan• .. ; r*ssfS3fot
has there beeu a uniform, fvftematic, and
; powerful opppfition in that body agamit
warlike preparations ?
Tt is well known that there ci'ft twj
parties in Congress ; it is nefeflary, there
fore, to a proper fohition of the! ques
tions, to be well informed of the con
dun i>f each party refpeft.velv, in orilfir
that, if blame has beert incurred by ei
ther, we may know to which it belongs.
We have taken it for granted, that the
cu rid Lift of Great Britain has been, for a
long trme pa It, so hostile to the CJnited
States, as to inalx preparations for war
indifpenfibfc.
One party proposed to threaten an<}
frighten with a tianfer of our
trade to France, a fequeiiiation of the
debts owing bv our citizens to her mer
chants and manufacturers, a llon-impor
, tation adt, and with ftaiving her Weil In
dia Islands by embargo; which meafares
were to compel Grewr Britain to drt the
United States justice, and d op her hos
tile intentions tewards them ; after which
trade wa/ to return in its old chann l.
The other party opposed these plans
as c.rfuaiuiiig no principle of refillance,
in cafe of war; as bein j equally injuri
ous in their operation to the trade and in
terests of the United States as to Great
Britain ; and as aiFoftiing the Britifli
court what it was said they wanted —
matter to render war with the United
States popular, or a pretext for commen
cing actual holfilities. They called up
on the party for threattnfng andfright
ening, (if they believed what they atTert
ed refpefting the designs of Great Bri
tain ) to join with them in placing the 11-
nite.l States in a situation to meet war by
defenfive preparations. They proposed,
therefore, to equip a finall fleet, fortify
our harbors, raise a provisional anny, and,
in the mean time, try the cifeit of nego
tiation.
The party for threatening and fright
ening England, opposed the equipment
of snips, fortifying uu." harbors, and a
provisional army.
After a long struggle, the party for
negoeiatioii and defenfive nuafures pre
vailed. Jliftiee is to be demanded irnm
Great Biitain. and reilitutioa or war be-. >Haw have the two barties a&ed Cuce
putting the matter on tnis ifluc ■
As ptepa rations for wai cannot, be
made without wney,. tl.c paity for nego
ciatiotf- and defenfive meal'urcs, proposed
a number of taxes upon luxuries, which
would have Veen paid chiefly by the rich,
and a tax upon fait, which would have
fallen equally upon every Older of citi-
Zcns * * .
. The party for threatning opposed molt
of these taxes, and iwfccd seemed willing
to agree to almolt none. According to
them, cocichfcs tind chariots ought not to
be taxed, which are, used chiefly by the
rit h ; nor loat-fugar, which is,chiefly con
fiiined by the wealthy, or tiiofe in good
circumftanct'Sjwho aic best.able to pay tax
es. I" (hort, as if to cast a ridicule up
on tht whole business, they propofdd a
land-tax, for which about thirteen vyted }
anu ;i tax upon cyder, for which 1 do not
lear;i that any voted j and, to crown the"
whole, an" additional duty upon importAl
goods, when evci y oue knows, that the
reason for having recpuife tQ internal ob
jects of taxation, is because, dining war,
little revenue can be expected from impor-
»
tations-
Suth has been nearly the conduct of
the two parties in while a for
midable power has been thiehtCuing the
UmtedStates with all the horrors of war.
The one struggling for mil tary prepirati.
011s to ward cm or meet that event: the
other llruggliug to prevent them : The
one, to nle a borrowed language, holding
out to England the Olive-Branch and
the fwotd ; the other, a nettle aud an
empty scabbard.
To which party {hall we coniigfi the
palm of wisdom, forelight and magnani
mity ; ;o the gentlemen of the olive
branch and sword, <il thoi'e of the nettle
and empty fcabbaid?
Without undertaking to dccide, or as
sign motives to either party, other than a
love of country and the public good, it
may be permitted to mention-, with np
plaufe, those representatives fiom this
state, as well as from other ilates, who,
though sometimes feurid with one fide,
and fometiines with the other, Were al
ways Found on the fide of vigorous mea
sures for defence. C.
„ Baltimore, ;ssay z£u 179a'. -
n UNITED STATES.
BALTIMORE, May 29.
A writer in a Eotlon paper of the 17th
inllant, speaking of the Marquis de la
Fayette, fays— " Pruflia, in which this
early friend to America is confined, is in
treaty with the O'uited States, Would it
be derogatory to the honor of Cohgrefs
to do what the Bi itirti Parliament have
rcfufed ? We trust it rrould not."
PHILADELPHIA,
JUNE 3.
Mrs. Alar shall, whose superior powers
are ever exerted to please, has from the com
mer.cement of her appearance in the New
Theatre, been received with uninterrupted
applause. The anticipated gratification of
feeing her in two inch contralled chara&ers
as thoie of Juliet and the Romp, will un
doubtedly attraa a croudcd house, and leave
her no cause to regret her exertions to obtain
American patronage.
Copy of a letter from Genera/ Willi, ts, to
Colour/ C. Bui die, dated Piti [burgh, 2id
May, 1794.
" I t'us moment received vours of the
i?th mil. I arrived about fifteen minutes
ago from I.e Roenf, and left the detachment
there well covered, and in good f'pirits. Thev
have built, under mv directions, two fmal'l
block-houses picketed in, which I think will
render them fufficiently strong until the rein
forcement goes und< r Capt. Denny.
"' The Indians I have converted with still
continue of the opinion that the Britifti will
make an opposition to the eftabliihment at
efque There arrived at Cuffawago,
while I was there, an Indian from Sandufky,
where-he had been left by the Senecas la'ft
rail sick ; —he fays the I'.ieutenant Governor
of Upper Car -a, M'Kee, and Elliot, the
-ndian agent, (the two last refugees from
tins country) were visiting all the Indian
towns in that quarter, and exciting them
there to continue their opposition io the
Americans, and alluring them of support
from their Father, the Britifti monarch. He
further adds, that they were prepared for
lighting Gen. Wayne the moment he mov
ed ; and that the Britifti were erecting gar
risons at the Miami river. He confirms the
accounts oi the other Indians, thaT thev were
to oppose the eftabliihment at
Ilk."
Extra 51 cf a lttier dated Londcn, Ma^h
. A. i ii »
3<th, 1 roi<ghf by the Pifjo'u.
" TTie tfimiliry have informed the Ameri
can m TchairtS'tliat thiy may hive a convoy
for outward bound vessels when thjry please.
This is intended to prevent the Algerines
from capturing' American vessels. Should
you not! hear this from other quarters, you
may depend it is v £a(sh"
Extras of a letter from Cadiz,to a merchant
in this city, dated April 8.
« 3y'a letter of the 3d instant, from Gi
braltar, I have advice that the Algerians hive
objected to the terms propafed to.,them by
the' Portuguese for continuing the truce, and
have again declated war agaiaft them* in,
confequenpe of which the Portuguese lqua
dron then in Gibraltar consisting of one line
of battle (hip, 3 frigates, rnd i brigs, were
preparing for a cruize, which will keep tbefe
rovers at least within the ftreights, In their
late cruize they did not take oae veflel, tho'
they were 17 in number."
By this Day's MaiL
PETERSBURG, Miy 27.
We hear that the Grand Jury of the Fe
deral Court, now fitting in Richmond, have
presented the recovery of Britiih debts, and
the lat& conduct of the government of Great
Britain towards this country, as a national
grievance.
DUMFRIES, May 29.
- It is with pleaftire we announce the fafe
arrival of the hon. John Heath, Esq. one of
our worthy reprefeiitatives in Con?re& —- It
will be remembered with that
during this loijg and important ieilion ,b.is con
stant attendance, and his Vote was irivauiblv
and decidedly in ' favour of the honour and
dignity of our common country.
NEW-YOliK, June i.
ARRIVED.
Ship Sanfom,* Smith,
James, Howard,
Polly, Campbell,
Brig Crugcr, Ablin,
* This fliip has not yet cbme up. She
is the one in which Dr. Priestly, is expected.
' thuaTßE^
OBSERVER No. 3Gt
Mr. Fenno-,
The people who attended the Theatre
last evening, were highly gratified, by the
jjerforrnance, especially by that of Mra.
Warrell, whose benefit it was. This ac
tress, always perfed, in her part, clialle
and propei in action, has experienced the
approbation of the public, in a full house;
a circumstance which must give pleaflire
to every benevolent mi'iiL
Mr. Whitlock in the character of Sir
John Flowerdale in I.ioncl and Clarifia,
defeives particular notice; he has always
filled his part, with much propriety ; but
was truly great in it last evening. Upon
the discovering his daughter's affections
for Lionel, he exceeded all expectation.
In the muiical parts, Mrs. Warrell and
Mrs. Oldmixon, were fuccefsrul, in au
fwering.if not exceeding,tjtie high expecta
tions which were formed, from a know
ledge of their muiical talents.
The Observer, feels a juftification, for
a short address to a generous public, in
favor of Mrs. Marshall.
An aCtress, who has made so manv ex
ertions to please, and who has so well
succeeded, will not, perhaps, be in want
of any afiiftance, from the feeble efforts
of the Observer—But (hould he fail of
success, his attempt is derived from bene
volence :
The parts of Juliet, and the Romp,
alfigncd to this actress for Wednelday
evening, are such, as the public may pio
mife themselves, from her talents, a high
entertainment—and when they know that
Mrs. Marlhall'e benefit, will much depend
on their attendance in the firft instance,
as well as their approbation in the second:
The Observer cannot but anticipate a full
house, and is confident the audience will
| be richly entertained. '
No aftrefs has ever clone more, to obtain
die approbation of the friends of the Dra
ma, than Mis. Marshall; and it would
be painful, if ftie should be neglected, at
her benefit.
June 3d, 1794.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Biig Twins, Yard, Havannah 22
John, Dewar, St. Andrews 5 1
Schr. Thomas, Livingfton, Norfolk 8
CLEARED.
Brig Flora, Caflin, Piavannah
Schr. Commerce Foulk Fort Dauphin
Jvancy, \ eir, Virginia
Sloop Salem, Elkins, New-York
Captain Dcwar, of the brig John, id
51 days tiorti St. Andrews, informs that
l.e left there the strip Palias, Capt Craw
foul, to fail in-8 Jays after him, for this
port. The (hip Four Friends, Captain
Gkni), was To iail for Philadelphia,
about ! f days after. Captain Dewar
from Bilbo*, on the 17th tilt, in lat 41,
20, long, ji, spoke tKe snow Nancy,
Captain Chamberlain from Lisbon, bound
to Buiton, out 38 days all well.
■ 'IV biig Union, Capt. Bell from
is arrived in the Delaware.
Captain Odlin, of the brig Sally, in
70 days from Liverpool informs that on
the 7th May, in lat. 40, o, long. 53, 35,
at A. M. saw a large fleet to the wind
ward, confilting of about 150 fail, which
appeared to be a French fleet, Handing
an E. S. E. Sourfe. The above he fup
poit-s to be the French fleet from Norfolk.
Capt. Parrock of the schooner Madi
son, trom Malaga, and last from Cadiz,
informs tuat he failed from Malaga under
convoy of a Dutch frigate, called the
Nymph. On the paflage to Cadiz, the
sth February in Lat, 36, 30. they spoke
an A'gerine Zcbec which the Captain of
lae frigate immediately ordered out of the
fleet. x
Left Cadiz the 2d April, under convoy
of two Dutch frigates, the Maakzaarry
hied, Capt. S. W. Van Hand, Commo
doie, and the frigate Nymph, in compa
ny with 16 fail, among which were three
Americans—the fleet was hound to Lis
bon, Holland, See. H„* left at Cadiz, a
hout 12 vessels wailing f or a
convoy. He further informs, that 2 Spa
nish fleets Icrt Cadiz for Savannah, and
I E.iglifh fleet homeward bound, which
rerufed to grant the Americans a protec
tion, ill cortfequence of the orders received
.here, from the British Admiral at Gi
braltar, not to admit any Americans in
the fleet. The last accounts at Cadiz
mentioned, that 16 fail of the Algeriues
wore out cruizing, and that 2 American
brigs were lately captured—their names
unknown. Trie further fays, that on the
18th of May, in Lat. 30, he was board
ed by a lprig which ihewed Spanish colors.
Same time spoke the snow Del-Carmen
from Philadelphia, out 11 days bound to
Havannah, "which was also brought too
by the privateer brig. •
London
.do
; Liflion
Amsterdam
From a late Engl]Jh paper.
Tlie anxiety "of the public on the late
rumours, with refpeA to the king of Prus
sia and the Emperor, has naturally given
rife to a variety of ftorits j the truth or
faitliood of which it is not easy to afcer
taiu. It is said, however, and with pro
bability, as the cause of the; journey both
of the arch-duke to Vienna, and of lord
Elgin to England ; that the Pruflian mi
"ilter at BrulTels had presented an official
note to prince Charles, of so intereiling a
kind as to induce his highness to repair to
the head-quarter 3 to hold a consultation
with the prince of Cobourg and the other
chiefs, at which the Imperial and British
minilters assisted. The result of this coun
cil, hsld at Arth, the arch-duke thought
proper himfelf to var to Vienna, and
lord Elgin to England. The fubilance
of the communV ation is said to be an of
fer made to Piuffia by the French, so
wife, moderate, and political, as to in
duce him to entertain it cordially, and to
submit it seriously to the other combined
powers.
The King of Prussia cannot be purchased
for a million, and if he is to go to the highest
bidder, there cin be little doubt as to the re
s Lit.—The Frtudi Republic has, at this mo
ment, by the lowest computation, not less
than 40 millions sterling in its Exchequer.
The committee of Public Safety polTefiing
so large a stock, with so precarious an inter
est in it, will not be eaiily out-bidden, what
ever be the competition!
ANECDOTE.
One day the Arcbbilhop of Canterbury
said to Betterton, the player, " Pray inform
me, Mr. Betterton, what is the reason you
adtors, ou the flage, can afFeit your audieii
• ces, with fpcaking of tilings imagi ary, as
if they uere real; while we, in the church,
i'peak of ihings real, which our congregations
receive, as if they were only imaginary ?"
" Why, my Lord, replied Betterton, the
reason is plan: We aiflors, on the llage,
speak of tilings imaginury, as if they were
real; and you, in the pulpit, speak of things
real, as if they wefv onty imaginary."
' Congrcfs, purluatit to joint vote of the
two Houfrs were to have closed the fefii
-011 this day, to meet again in November,
but several important Lills being on tlieir
-n!ie' lime of adjournment wu
this day poitponeii tril Thur'day next.
Stfmeintereftiuj* communications were
yellerday received from the President
of tfie United States ; relative to frefh
diftmbances with the Cieek Indians, and
the frontier inhabitants .of Georgia.
John Vanneman, Malltr.
. TO/rail with all cAavffnicht Jpeed, having*
thcee fourths o> her cargo already engaged.
For lrcight apply-to rhe ma Iter, tm
board,, or
THOMAS ci" JOHN ZETLAND.
June 3. d
Wanted for Europe,
-d Jlout and fajl failing'
and
For Cape Nichola Mole,
A Goodfiji Jailing Schooner or Brig about
uinetv Tons,
B Y
LOUIS OSMONT,
No. 111, north SecondJlreet.
UJWO HAS F-OR SALE,
A few Invoices of
Artificial Flowers, Feathers,
Fans, Handfo.iie Looking Glaifes framed.
Windpw Gla so' ever* fiz**,
Received by the brig Amiable Sophia, Capt.
Louulher, via Ne-w Tirk.
Sp-rnnace'i Cand.es, Claret and Burgundy in
cases, Cliainpaig. <. wine, all to befold by
Invoir e,
dlfo jujl Received,
A few Barrels
Fresh Superfine Flour.
Do Ship Bread, and a parcel of.Prime, Rice.
J u,,e 3' , d.
NEW THEATRE.
Mrs. Marshall's Night,
to-morrow evening,
June 4.
Will be presented,
A TRAGEDY, called
Romeo and Juliet.
Romeo, Mi-. Fenneil
Efcalus, ' Mr. Finch
Paris,
Montague,
Capulet,
Mtfcutio.
Bcnvolio,
Tybalt,
Friar Lawrence,
Friar John,
Balthazar,
Apothecary,
Peter,
Page,
Juliet,
Mr. Moretoa
Mr. De Moulin
Mr. Green
Mr. Chalmers
Mr. Cleveland
Mr. Harwood
Mr Whitlock
Ms. Warrell
Mr. J. Dariey
Mr. Francis
Mr. Bliflet
Matter T. Warrell
■ Mrs. Marshall
being her firft appearance in that character)
Lady C.apulet, Mrs.Rowion
Nurse. Mrs. Shaw
!n act i. A MASQUERADE, with a dance
by the charadlers.
In a<sl s, The Funeral Proceflion and So.
lemn Dirge.
The Voca! Parts, by Meilrs. Marshall, Dar
ley, jun. Leo, Bason, J.^Warrell, T. War
rell, Mi s. OMmixon, Mrs. Warrell, Mils
Broadhurft, Mil's Willems, Mrs. Bates,
Mrs. Finch, Mrs. Cleveland, Mils Row
fon, Mrs. De Marque, Madame Gardie,
See.
End of the Play, (for the firft time) will be
prel'ented a New Comic Pallor ai DANCE
called
La Roie et le Bouton.
By Moil!. Bcllona, MelTrs.Darley, jun. Blif
fett, and Madame Gardie.
To which will be added,
A Muiical FARCE, called
The ROMP.
Wattey Cockney, Mr. Francis
nnp L Mr. Finch
Old Cockney, Mr. De Moulin
Captam Sightly, Mr. Marshall
rriicilia 1 omboy, Mrs. Marshall
Penelope, Miss WiUems
Madame Le Blond, Mrs. Cleveland
Quafiieba, Miss Rowfon.
Chorus, Meflrs. Darley jun. Warrell,
Lee, Bason, &c.
1 ickets to be had of Mrs. Marshall, No
66, north Eighth fireet. At the usual pla
ces, and of Mr. Franklin at the Theatre
where places may be taken.
,he new Comedy of EVE
RY ONLHAS His FAULT, With the co
mic Opera of NO SONG NO SUPPER,
for the benefit of Mr. DARLEY.
Mrs. MORRIS's night will be on Mon
dav nSxt.
Places in tile Boxes to betaken at the fcox-
Omce oi the lheaire, ai any hour fr :.i nii e
m the morning till three o'clock in the after
noor, rn the day of performance. Tickets
to be had at the near the Theatre, a
the corner of Si A street.and at Carr & Co't
Muficat Repository, Nv.iaj, Mirkei^-e.
* ') " w■ A New Novel.
To the LADITS of Philadelphia.
L Thi, fiay is Publt/hee! by
MATHEW CAREY,
118, Market street,
tier, bound, ot j dollar, sewed
ill -"atbie paper, halt a <l'.l|ar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
IK TWO VOLUMES.
By Mrs. ROWSON, of t«e New Theatre,
Phladelphin, Ai»tbor of Victoria, the In-,
qurtftor, the F'iWy de Chambie, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers hate given
the following char after
IT mav be a . a,e M' Troth, for it is not
unnatural)' and it is a talc of ieal diitrefs.
Charlotte, ..>y the artificc of a teachei, recom
mended to a ("drool, from hnirianity rather
than a*conviction ot her integ' ity, or the re
gularity of her former conduct, is enticed
from her goven ef>, and accompan »es a young
olScer to America—The marriage ceremo
ny, if not forgotten, is poltponed, and Char
lotte die"? d martyr to the inco«»ftancy of the
over, and treachery of his friend —The lit u
tions are artless and afFe&ing—•-the defciip
at tons natural and pat hetic ; we fnould fe
01 Charlotte if such a pctTon ever existed,
who fir one er- or Tea rely, perhaps, deserved
so (eve e a punishment- If 't is a fiftjonj
poetic justice is not, we thiiik, properly dif-
Said Carey has jujl f>til!i/Jjea,
A 2 sheet map of Kentucky
conipiteti by Kiilfu bA.kei, p'ice oi:e do.lar
a d two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Germany, Spa n, Italy, the tJjiited Province*,
the Netherlands, and the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars.
Map of Netv Jerfey—iHalf a dollar.
Map-, of Vermont, Connecticut, Delaware,
6..orgia -Price three eighths of a dollar
each.
April 29. tuth&sjw
Four Dollars Reward.
A NEGRG MAN, named L'Efper»iice, a
but 25 years of age, of the Congo nation, 5
feet 6'*inches high ; Ipeaks very little Engliih
t»n nwav tVoin his matter the a7tb intlanc.—
He ftoje : V carried away with him one new
fiie.-n brj) id,cloth Coat, and many articles of
house fiifnitW. W 1 >ever (hall take up and
secure the a'.'ove regro in any goal, to that
lie may be hr' u'g'JC to justice lhall receive the
above reward. Enquire of ihe Printer.
May 30 _ mw&fjt
JUST PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOBSON,
See,if Her, at the Stone House in Secondflreet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA,
x OR A
Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, aud Mifcel
latieous Literature,
ON a plan entirely new ; by whicfc the dif
ferent sciences anct arts are digeffed into the
farm 'of dillinft treatises or fyfteim. This
volume co taints th< articVs, nieda", medi
cine,-m-tairhigv, ntetaphvfics, methodiftojj
Mexic v , micolcope, lnidw i y, and a'g-eat
vanity of biographical aid m\i eel la neo us ar
ticles, iiluftrated with nineteen copperplates.
$3" The rabies of logarithms. &c. which
were deficient in the tenth volume, are sub
joined to this.
Eleven Volume-os this work are now pub
lifiied .and the XHth is in fo.ac fyrwardnefs.
On . tlis firft of September, 1792, the price
of fubfeription was inertafed T£N dollars on
all s etts not taken before ti at t me. The fub
feription isftill open 611 these. terms, and if
any copies remain by the firft of July nexr,tbe
price will be raised TF.N dollars more, on
any copies which may be fubfci ibed for after
that period.
As many of the fnbfcribers have taken
only two, three or four, &c. volumes, they are
earnestly requested to take up and pay for the
remaining volumes, as it b- comes difficult to
Complete the setts, and the publisher does not
liold htmfelf bouud to make up any setts after
tbe firft day of July next.
April 22. m&rth6w .
JUST PUBLISHED,
MATHEW* CAREY,
118, MarketJlreet,
Price 18 cents,
THE
Catechism of Man ;
Pointing out from found principles, and ac
knowledged fa&s tbe Rights and Duties of
evdry Rational Being.
Am I therefore become your enemy because I
tell you the truth ? GaJ. iv. 16
Now all these things happened unto them for
examples, and they are written for our
admonition, upon whom the ends' of the
earth are come. i Cor. xii.
May 10 tuth&s2w-
Advertisement.
THE relations of Mr Thomas Curtis,for
merly of EUicoti*s Upper Mills, and lately of
the City of Washington, deceased, are d-'fir
cd to apply and have his affurs fettled,
it y of Walhington, April 22, 1764.
M. 5 m&tl»4w
|^nn|KfljgwMH|^nn|nKßK^«
-■' ." -_ --- ■■ * ;*-. si ■ ?_, .•_ -t ; V
« #
The Public are cautioned to
Wware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills oj ,
>he Sank of the United States,, and Twenty i
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America, J
Qveral of which Lave appeared in circulation .
within a few dnys past ; they are " good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be di/lingui/hed by the following .
marks.
five Dollar Bills of the Bank of tlx
United. States.
ALL that have appeared have the lettef F.
for tljeir Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the fa per is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is smaller
than theM. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from ihe top of the O,
to touch the top of the M. would extend con
siderably above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
The i and Jin the word promise are not
parallel, the J 'inclining much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,tfie fti okes
of all the Letters are stronger and the device
in the margin particularly is much coarser and
appears darker than in the Hue bills. Some
ot the counterfeits bear date in 1791—Where
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were issued in
jhat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America«
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar *Notes
above described; the engraving is bettei exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the kfody of the bill, are in number thr*
teen in the genuine b.lls, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like tie fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as defer ibed a
bove, the 0 being less than the w, and others
following.
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined. '
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and shejr go
ing below them-
The signature J. Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamb-black and
oil, and differs from other inks used in
priming the bills and the cashier's iigndture.
It is fuppoied ihefe forgeries were committed
in (ome of the Southern btates, as all the coun
terfeits fctayr apj* eaj _ have_ come troifi
thence, and two persons have been apprehend
ed m Virginia, on suspicion of being the author
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will.be paid toany Person or Peifon's who fhail
discover and profecutc to convi&ion the feveial
offenders of the following or any
of them, viz.
The person err pci/ops, who raanufa&urcd
the paper on which the Bills aie printed.
The person or persons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
Every person who has acted as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
ot tile Bank of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
ter B.
They may be diflinguifhed from the genu
ine by the following MARKS :
The paper ot the counterfeits is of a more
tend-r texture and gJofley furface than the
genuine, ami there is 110 water mark in them.
The letter C. in the word Cashier, in the
true bills is strongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
stroke, evidently in an unfinifhed state. The
letter a in the word demand, is badly formed
and the who.'e word ill done, and there is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
i le Marginal device, is much daiker in
u t ' la " " le genuine bills owing to
the (hade strokes being coarser, much nearer
together, and consequently much more nu
merous. This difference ftrifces the eye at firft
view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will be paid for apprehending, &
prosecuting to convi&ion the several above
delcribed Offenders in refpeifl to this, as to
the last defcVibed bills.
THOMAS WILLING, President
ol the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bank of Noah Ameiicn.
By order ol the Committees of the Ref
peftive Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible fituatioh, —also a Country Seat
within 6 milcsof the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42acies of huul and meadow, the
House is not exceeded bvniatiy in the vicinity
of the city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
m&ttf
THE officer the Piefident and Direfterj
nt tie Company of North
America, is removed to No. ,07, South '
Front flreet, being the south eall cor„e r of
Front and Walnut streets.
To the Ele&ors of the city and
county of Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
THIS being the last year of the prefer, t
Si eri.f's time in office. I take the liber
ty to otier mylelf a Candidate, and folidti
vour votes and interests in my favor, to plate
me on the return at the ne«t general Elect on,
as his fucceilbr for said office; in doing which'
you will collier an obligation that will be*
gratefully remembered, by
Your nioft obedient,
and humble fervantj
JOHN Ii'AKEU.
M ~ y 3- estf.
Stock Brokers Office^
No. 16, Wall-ftrcct, New-York.
The Subl'criber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SAI Eop
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b.gs (oive toof '
ftr his lejviccsto his liicnds and others, in the
line ol a Slock Broker. Thole who may pleaie *
to favor him with their buftnefs, may drpeiid
upon hav ing it tranfafled with the uimcft fide
lity arid difpatth.
Orders lioin Philadelphia, Boflnn, or any
other partot the United States, will lie flriflly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
tTi&thtl
Just Published,
A one handsome volume, nrno. Price 5s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin'j Head, No. 41, Chefuut
Stre'l,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties-which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Corrected and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
Profeflor of Moral Philosophy, and the
oi Nature, and of* Ecclefiaftfcal History;
and Minilter of the English Chu»ch at U
trecht/
Aliquid Jemper ad communem utilitateirt af
ferendum Cicero.
The Firjl American Edition.
HPHEgrancl principle of Equality, if right-
X ly understood, is the only basis.on which
universal justice, sacred Order, and perf'e&
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly fe cu red. The v7ex* 7SF \f vxtirbiled m Tl\u
eflay, at the fame time that it repreJSes the
infojence of office, the tyranny of p:idej ard
the outrages of opgrefiion ; confirms, it) the
most forcible manner, the neceflity of subor
dination, and the jult demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loofeuing the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil dftin&ion,
draws more closely every social tie, unite* in
one harmonious and justly proportioned lyf
tem, and brings men together On the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. tuts
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representatives,
DECEMRE II 2 1 (t, 1 793-
WHEREAS the Commiflioncr* ol publie
Accounts, h.;ve reported, that they can
not proceed to the efligation of the Tic a fury
Accounts, refpe6ling fpeciul Indents, without
knowing the outlfanding amount thereof in cir
culation :—Therefore,
Rejolvcd, That all holders of special Indents
be d
nrfted, and require., on or belore ihc full
d<jy of November ri- xt, to deliver the fpccial In
dents in their pofleflion to one or other of the
Commiflioneis of the Trcafury, who are to give
receipts for the fjme, and to report to theCom
miflioner}, on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount hy
theiw refpedlively received, and also to the Le
gislature, «t their meeting in November next,
and that all special Indents not tendered mho
the Treasury as above, on or before the fitft day
of November next, lhall be, and the fame are
heirby barred.
flejo/ved, That public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, un il the fir ft day of
November next. And tWt the Delegates of this
State in the Congress of the United Siates, be re
qucfted to cause this rcfolution to be published
in one or papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for the expences attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the refoluiion be feot to the
Senate for their concurrence.
Bv order of the House,
JOHN SANfORD DART, C.U.R.
In the SENATE,
December ft, 1793*
Rejolved, That this House do concur with the
Houle of Repi efentatives ifi the Foiegoing reso
lutions.
Ordered, That the resolutions be lent to the
House of Rcprefcniativts.
by order of the Senate,
FLLIX WARLEY, Cleik.
fwtNov,
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 3>
South Fourth-Street. 1