E V ENING ADVERTI S E R.
No. 125'0f Vol. V.]
For Sale or Charter,
Z^NDROMACtig,
(An American bottom )
y o h„ Moors, Mafler.
IS a ft out good vittl-l, about two years oW,
bnvrhep 232 tons, has only made three voy
' *Xe*~, arid uny lei tto sea at a filial! ex
pence. She may be seen at V'me-ftreet wharf,
and the ternts made know*) by application to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
March 2i. dtf
For Norfolk & Frcdericksburgh,
::^LITTL E"sA LLY S
John Earl, Mailer.
A iiauncli good vefiel, will fail in a few
days. For freight or p fijge, apply to the
matter on board at Chefaut street wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONY & SON.
March 31. dtf
For Amsterdam,
""J--, The new fall-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
f§|| ADRIAN A,
r "■' " K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or paflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply 011
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. PafTengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794? dtf
To be Let,
Por Merchants Compting Houses or Public
Ofjices,
Two brick 3 story Ploufes,
HAVING 6 1 ooin> 10 each, wi;h'fire
i>efi.lc garrets, fiiuate 011 the foul h wriierly fide
oT Dock Prar and Walnut
street s. Enq <»"c of
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
A P nl '7- ruch&rstf
Excellent CLARET^
In hogsheads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
A L S-O,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter casks,
for sale by t
JOHN VAUGHAN,
N« til. South Front Ureet.
Jaa. a, 1794.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitz pat rick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz. I
GIN in pipes y
A fezu bales Holland Duck,
Ditto OznaburgSy
Holland Sheetings
Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, -viz. Tumblers and. Mugt, va
rious ftx.es.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and flat bars,
Hair Ribbctnd, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, 13c. &c.
FOR SALF. BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale
ftouldapphcation be made <,within a few dap ;
other wife fie will take freight for Amfltr-
March 1, i 7Q4 . d __ tf
-Lately Fublifhed.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street :
H '" or y ? f , New -Hampfliire, from the
A Difcqvery of the River P:fca(aqua—bv 71
TcmmtMhap, D. D. 3 Vols. Price in Board.,
4 1-2 Dollars. '
The Forreftcr an American Fable, being'",
Sequel to the Hrfloryof John Bull the Clothier
rrce, 75 Cents.
A D ltrfurfe, intended to commemorate Ihe
D.fcovery ot A,none, by Chriltopher Colum
bus; delivered at the of the Historical
Society in Maffachufettj, Oaober 3 ,d t 7Qe
being the completion of the Thud CentuTv'
fmce that Memorable event. To which are
aoded, F.,ur Diflertatlon.v, connected with th,-
fuMeR-By the /ame iutbor. 50 c
March 17. t..MW 3 w
»
■»9HHMP9l>«»S«ra>' ■* - "*•* » ..»» : S;-»f -.- \ '■ ----si*-'- " • -p> '• *.T< - ; -.- »..;■ .i^-..' :m. '"-"
-
Tuesday, May 6, 1794.
! The following Certifi-
of the funded three per Cent Stock of the
| Dome(lie Debt of the United States Handing on
the books ot the TreafuYy of the laid United
States, in the name* ol Dvmnald and Barton of
London, merchants, and signed by Jofcph
Nourfe, Register of said Treasury, to wit :—
No. 5476, dated 24'h August 1792 for 29.59
dollars and 5-3 cents was transmitted from Lon
don in the lhip Peter, Paul Hll Hey, mailer,
•wund for New York, and has been loft.—
Tltc Subfciiber intending to apply to the Trea
fu/y of the United States 10 have the fame re
newed, dc fires all per Cons who arc iritereffed in
the said certificate, to make their objections
thtreto, if any they have.
Francis Macy.
Philad. March iy. d6w
Philad. April 11, 1794.
*** Notice, agreeably to charter, is here
of given to the members of the Corporation
for the Relief, of Poor and bijlrejed Prefby
■ tenon Mir.ijlen, and of the Poor and Dif-,
trejjed Widows and children of Prejbyterian
Mmifters, that a meeting of said corporation
is to take place, 011 the 2jd day of May nejft,
in the lecond Preibyterian church in the city
of Philadelphia, at 4 o'clock P. M. for the
ui.patch or all such bufinels as may then be
brought before the board.
ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
tuth&s6t
A New Novel.
To the LADIES of Philadelphia.
This Day is Publijhed by
MATHEW CARET,
118, Market street,
p.icr, bound, fn/e-eighjn of a dollar, sewed
in 11 arble paper, hall a dollar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
IN TWO VOLUMES.
fly Mis. ROWSON, of the New Theatre,
Phladelphia, Author of Victoria, the In
qmfitor, the Fille de Chambre, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given
the following char alter.
IT may be a i'ale oi Truth, for it is not
unnatural, and it is a tale of real diltrels.—
Charlotte, by the artifice of a teacher, recom
mended to a fcliool, fropi linmanity rather
than a convi&ion ol her integrity, or the re
gularity of her former conduit, it enticed
from her governed, and accompanies a young
cer to Amenta— The marriage ceremo
ny, if not forgotten, is postponed, and Char
lotte dies a martyr to the inconstancy of her
'jver, and treachery ol his friend.—The fitu
tioits are artlels and aflTefting—the defenp.
anons naturil and pathetic; we Ihotfld feel
to.- Charlotte if such a person ever existed,
who for one error scarcely, perhaps, deserved
lo revere a puoiihrnent. If it is a fiction,
poeticjuftice is not, we think, dhjperly dil
tributed
Said Carey has jujl published,
A 2 sheet map of Kentucky
compiled by Elihu Barker, price one dollar
and two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Go. many, Spain,ltaly, the United Provinces,
the Netherlands, and the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars.
mp of New jersey—Hals a dollar.
Maps of Vermont, Connecticut, Delaware,
Georgia -Price three eighths of a dollar
Ejch.
Apr'! 29. tqth&sjw
—NO. 21—
Second Jlreet, between Market and Chefnut
Jlreets, Philadelphia.
POYNTELL' S
AMERICAN MANUFACTORY OF
PAPER HANGINGS,
WHERE he keeps up a constant stock of
ten thousand pieces for sale, comprising every
variety of colours, in grounds and figures, of
the most modern and tasty patterns, for eve
ry part of a house. Thfc perfection attained
in this manufactory, in peculiar neamefs of '
workman/hip, durability of colours, variety
l'n'aefigns, and good quality oi the paper, will
be fotnid to exceed any European papers at ■
the Q»me moderate prices.
: Ao-elegant variety of rich fancy feftoon &• 1
narrow borders, and of ftuccoand other co- '
loured pannel papers. i
Plain grounds made to any colour orfliade. ;
Wtiolefile orders for any quantity, from ,
the country or for exportation, executed on
a Ihort notice, on advantageous terms, on '
ulual credit. :
In addition to the above afTortment, hehas 1
aTieautifal variety of
French paper hangings ' 1
if very fuperinr quality, (Paris inanafiCtoiy) '
with a variety of Rich "Borders. '
April Jj tuth&saw i
Whole No. 519/
Far th'e Gazktta of the United Status
Mr. Fenno,
IT must be very real friends
of genuine modern democracy, that the de
mand for many articles of the growth and in
vcrttion of European nations is rapidly de
clining. This cireumHance, although in
lotne cases the result of a diminilhed con
lumption; is rather to be attributed to the
mdultry 'and indefatigable zeal of several of
our own citizens. The fabrication of news
tormftaHce, may be adduced as an example
M, P ° mt -r> I tle BrUfrels London
Morning Port, with many others of less note
slave hitherto claimed the exclusive rioht of
deftroymg .private charatfers, and palmihs
upon the,public thesnoft prepufterous, impu
dent and improbable falfehoods for truth!—
ihis monopoly, however, is now happily
done away by the spirited exertions of the
writers m the American BruJJih Gazette,
whose talents for Scandal and the Marvellous
are beyond all praise. Great merit is a rfo
due to the several manufacturing Societies
lately established throughout the Union, afld
more especially at Norfolk, where intelli
gence of the mod important nature is
fabricated, packed up, and forwarded by ex
press to the Editor of said Gazette, who aAs
as their agent in this city. The profits re
lulting to the agent from this fmgular retail
trade are not yet fully known—the general
opinion however is, that they are not equal
to the expence that will accrue in profecut
mg the business.
Foreign Intelligence.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
January 7.
General Weftermann appeared at the
bar, and said, " Citizens Reprefentatites,
a wound which prevents me from all exer
cise on horseback, is the motive of my
journey to Paris. I corne to present to
the Convention some remains of the sacer
dotal spoils of the bishop of Agra.jfo fam
ous for the part which he aded in the late
Catholic and royal army_l come alf® to
anure you, upon my head, that of that ar
my, which was still 90,000 men ftrong
while in the diftrift of Mans, not a furgfe
combatant has remained Chiefs, officers,
soldiers, bishops, countefTes, princeflesj
& marchionefles, all perished by the sword,
by the flames, by the waves.
This dreadful example is unprecedented in
the annals of history; and Europe, aftonilh
ed, will fee that a Republic, which, like the
Everlasting Father, dicftates its laws from the
iummit of a sacred mountain, will be able
to maintain ltfelf, and to reduce, like La Ven
dee, every country which shall be foolilh
enough to form a plan of reftoratiirg Royal
ty to France." '
The President answered Weftermann, and
invited him to the honors ps the fitting a
mong the Representatives of the people? a
midll the loudest plaudits.
A Spanijb Regijler Ship was captured left
Summer by a Frertch privateer, and after- '
wards taken by the Ertgljfb. The sol.
towing article relative to the trial of ihis
capture, appears to be interefling.
LONDON, Dec. it.
DOCTOR'S COMMONS.
High Court of Admiralty.
Yesterday, after a reply and rejoirtder
rom the learned Civilians on both fides
>ir James Marriott, the Judge Advocate'
ironounced judgment upon the cafe of the
hip S. Jago.
The learned Judge said that the cafe be
org the Court was pferfeftfy novel, and
herefore a novel decree mull be pronoun
ed, The numerous cases that had beer*
titrodueed in the course of the different
rguments proved the learning arid itidufc
17 of the Advocates, but had no appfrca
ion to the The novelty of the cafe
rose from the Angularity of the present
oltilities, which so much agitated the
wblic mind. -The learned Judge said
e was not bound by any jfrecedent that
ad been cited, or by tli»» authaiity of any
nctent authors, who had Seah in learned
nd abttwfc upon the
v>,"- 1nations, and the municipal law of this or
any other country* It was that excellent
principle of common sense, that did, or
should govern all mankind, that ought to
decide the present cafe. Old books in
Greek, Latin, and English; taken from
the dusty fh elves on which thty had repot
ed for centuries, had been pressed into the
service of thi's cause; nay, Pagan; Maho
metan, Jewish, Dutch, and almost every
other writer in the world, had been quot
ed ; but their fpcculations applied just as
much to one fide of the question as the
other. Sir James, with admirable wit,
exposed to ridicule the abflruf* specula
tions of these ancient writers, and pointed
out their inapplicability to the present
cause.
Soriie of them, he said, put him in
mind of the 39 articles, which had b«en
made to apply to a great variety of dif
ferent do6liir.es. Grotius had been in
troduced, -and often quoted as the Bible
of the Civilians; but it was high time to
have done with him. A gieat deal had
been said refpefting the law of nations,
but after all it was floating law. If
would have been a desirable circumftaace,
if it had occurred to the British Minis
ters, or to our Allies, to have provided
for the cafe of a recapture, like the pre
sent ; but no such provision had been as
yet made. Perhaps, before the present
cause reached its last tribunal, some new
ast or regulation might take place. In
the present cafe, the King of Spain, as
the claimant, comes and prays that the
ship might be restored, and submits to
• salvage, and to the decree of the English
Court of Admiralty ; he had pledged his
Royal honor to abide by the decinon ; —
this was very flattering to the? Judge, and
ought to be considered as a good fecu
ritv.
A decree therefore ought to be made
that was consonant with good sense, with
politeness, and might tend to cement the
harmony subsisting between the courts of
England and Spain. It had been laid by
the Counsel that the law knew of no po-,
litenefs, but looked only at justice. Law
yers, it was true, were not polite, but
politeness in this cafe was good sense. Law
had been called the perfection of reason ;
but the perfection of reason was what the
law ought to be. The learned Judge,
after many observations upon the law of
nations, municip;J laws, the nature of
treaties, and policy of states, said he
(hould pronounce a provifionary decree,
which he trusted would give fatisfaftion to
both parties. He therefore decreed, that
the ship and cargo fliould be restored to
his Catholic Majesty and his subjects the
claimants, agreeable to their prayer, and
that one eighth of the value (after deduc
ting the expences on both fides) be paid
for salvage ; provided that, within fix
months, it shall be declared by his Ca
tholic Majesty, by' some public ast, that
all ships and cargoes that are, or shall be
captured by the King of Spain, together
with private ships to be fitted out, be
longing to the King of England, be re
stored upon the fame terms to his Britan
nic Majesty; otfierwife the said ship St.
Jago is to be confidcred as good and law»
ful prize to the captors.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
March 3.
Just, in the name of the Commit
tee of Public Safety moved, and the Con
vention adopted the subsequent decree.
Art. 1. All the Communes of the Re
public shall make out an account of the
patriots contained in each commune, to
gether with their names, places of abode,
their situation, and the lofTcs which they
have fuflained.
2. The dire<Slors of each diftrift shall
fend these accounts to the committee of
Public Safety, who shall make a report in
which (hall be pointed out the means of
indemnifying the unfortunate patriots out
of the property of persons detained as
fufpefted.
Danton wjfhcd that the division of
the little country property should be ad
ded to this measure ; and that the patri
ots who have fuflained losses should be al
lowed to cultivate it, even to the walls of
Paris. He moved that the Committee of
Public Safety, should take this suggestion
into confideiation. Agreed to.
A letter from Florent Guyot. inform
ed the Convention, that Fiancis d'Ecoflc
So years of age, had been kept in the
prison of Lisle, in irons, for forty-five "
years.
His family, who resided at Stockholm,
had formerly allowed him an annual sum
of 300 livres, which had bsen withdrawal
for ttyree years.
This unhappy fnan had been taken by
a Lettre de Cachet after having served
with credit in the French army.
Tlie Convention decreed, that a peri
fion of 2000 livres should be granted to
him, and that enquiry should be institu
ted into the reason of this man's impri
sonment having bfcen kept from the know
ledge of the government fhice the revolu
tion.
Congress of the United States.
IN SENATE,
Saturday, April 19, 1794.
Air. Folter reported from the .commit
tee foi enrolled bills that they did ye Iter r
day lay before the Prefiderit of the Unit
ed States, the enrolled " Resolution, to
continue the present embargo on ships or
vefTels ii? the ports of the United States,
bound to any foreign port oi' place." _
On motion,
That the petition of Ebenester Paribus
and others, praying for an exemption
from the embargo, be referred to a speci
al committee,
It passed irt the negative.
On motion,
Ordered, That Ebenezer Parsons and'
others, have leave to withdraw their peti
tion.
After the consideration of the execu
tive business, The Senate adjourned until
11 o'clock on Monday morning.
Monday, April 21, 1794.
The bill, sent from the House of Re-
for concurrence entitled "An
ast to eftaUifh the Poft-office and poll
roads within the United States, was read
the third time, and further amendments
being agreed to,
Resolved, That this bill pass as a
mended.
On motion,
To reconsider the resolution that this
bill pass, for the puipofe of further a
mendment-—
It paired in the negative.
Ordered, That the Secretary commu
nicate this resolution to the House of Re
presentatives, and requell their concur
rence in the amendments.
A message from the House of. Repre
fentativesby Mr. Beckley their clprk :
" Mr. Prclident—The President of
the United States hath notified the House
of Representative?, that he did on the
18th instant, approve and sign " The re
solution continuing the present embargo,
until the twenty fifth day of May next
and that he this day, approved and signed
the ast, entitled, "An ast limiting the
time for prefenjing claims for dellroyed
certificates of certain descriptions And
he withdrew.
The petition of MefTrs. Stewart and
Plunket was presented and read, praying
reimburfeqjent of the duties on a quantity
of coffee,' said to be destroyed by fire '
Oidered, 1 hat this petition be refer
red to Mr. Potts, Mr. Cabot and Mr.
Edwards, to consider and report thereon.
The petition of Henry Merchant dif
trift judge for Rhode Island, praying an
augmentation of his salary, was presented
and read.
Ordered, That this petition lie on the
table.
A motion was made as follows :
" That the Journals of the Senate, and
reports from the heads of departments prin
ted by the order of the Senate shall be in
octavo.
" That if the House of Representatives
concur, three hundred copies of Ae jour
nals of both Houses finae the commence
ment of the present government be printed
for the use of Congress."
Ordered That this motion lie for consi
deration. •
After the consideration of the executive
business.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
to morrow morning.
Tuesday April 22d. 1794.
The Vice President laid before the
Senate a letter from Monfr. Olive with
the plan of a forty gun ship.
Ordered, that they lie on the table. , '
Mr. Taylor from the committee to
whom was referred the bill entitled,'" An
ast allowing Lieutenant Colonel Toufard
an equivalent for his pension for life"
reported an amendment.
Ordered, That this report lie until to
morrow for consideration,
, ,J he r P?j tion ° f Ste P htn Parsons in be
half of William Parsons, was presented
i and read, praying corhpcnfation for mili
tary services to the said William, who has
been hitlfifrto prevented from applyi.ig,
by his absence from the coilatry.
Or3ered, That this peJtiOn lie on the
table.
The Senate resumed the consideration
bf the motion made yesterday, relative to
the mode of printing the jonrnal?, bills
I ahd reports from the heads of depart
ments, and having amended the fame,
' " Resolved,. That after the present ses
sion, the bills, the journals, and all re
ports from the heads of departments, and
Sil official communications which may be
printed by order of the Senate, shall be
in oftavd."
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Wednesday, April 23.
The Senate resumed the consideration
of the report of the committee on the bill,
entitled, " an ast allowing Lieutenant
Colonel Tonfarcj an equivalent for his peri
fion for li&, and having adopted the
fame, and amended the bill accordingly.
Resolved, That the rhle be dispensed
with, and that this bill be now read the
third time. >
Resolved, That this bill pass with an
amendment.
Ordered, That the Secretary desire the
concurrence of the House of Representa
tives in the amendment to this bill.
The petition of James Shaw was pre
sented and read, praying compensation
for military fervice9 and supplies.
On motion,
That the petition be referred to a spe
cial committee—
It palfed in the negative.
On motion,
Ordered, That the petitioner have leave
to withdraw his petition.
A message from the house of Representa
tives by Mr. Beckley their clerk :
Mr. President—The house of Reprefenta
ti4es disagree to some and agree to other
amendments of the Senate to the bill, enti
tled, " An a<sl to eilabliih the poll-office and
poll-roads within the United States."
" The House of Representatives have
palled the bill, entitled, " an ast directing a'
detachment from the militia of the United
States," and the bill, entitled, " an ast
providing for raising and organizing a
corps of artillerists and engineers," in which
al bills they desire the concurrence of
the Senate." And he withdrew.
The Vice-President laid before the Se
nate a letter from the Secretary for the
Department of State, enclosing the trans
lation of a letter from the members of the
committee of public fafety in France, the
original of which was aildieffed to Con
gress.
On motion,
That it be referred to a committee to
take the fame into consideration and report
the draught of an answer.
It was agreed that the consideration
thereof be postponed until to-morrow.
The Senate proceeded to consider the
resolution of the House of Reprefeutatives,
disagreeing to sundry amendments of the
Senate to the bill, entitled, " an ast to
eftabliih the poll-office and poll-roads with
in the United States"—
On motion,
Resolved, That they infill on their
tenth amendment to the firft feftion, and
to their amendment for adding a fiewfec
tion to follow the twenty-seventh feftibn ;
and that a conference with the House of
Representatives be requelled 011 the fub
jeft of difagieement, and that Mr. King,
Mr. Burr, and Mr. Jackson, be mana
gers at the fame en the part of the Se
nate. »
On the qneftion, that the Senate re
cede from their amendment for llriking
out the twenty.firft "feftion—as follows,:
Sec. 21. And be it further enalted, That
every printer of newspapers may fend one
paper to each and every other printer of
newspapers within the United States, free
of pollage, under such regulations, as the
Poll-mailer-General shall piovide.
It pal Ted in the affirmative—Yeas 17
Nays 9.
The yeas and nays being required by
one-fifth of the Senators present
Those who voted in the affirmative, are
Mefirs. Bradford, Bradley, Brown,
Burr, Butler, Edwards, Folter, Freling
huyfen, Gunn, Henry, Jackson, Lang
don, Livermore, Martin, Monroe, Ro
bin son and Taylor.
Those who voted in the negative, L ,re
MeiTrs. Cabot, Ellfworth, Hawkins, I
zara. King, Morris, Potts, Rutherfurd,
and Strong.
Ordered, That the Secretary commu
nicate these resolutions to the House
Repiefcntatives.
The bil), feht from the House of R e _
prefentatives for concurrence, entitled
" an a£t direfling a detachment from the
militia of the United States," was
the firft time.
Ordered, That this'bill pass to a fecund
reading.
The bill, sent from the House of R e .
prefenftitives for concurrence, entitled
" an ast providing for raising and organi!
zmg ( a corps of artillerifU and engineers,"
was read the hr.il time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the fe.
cond reading.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'ckick to
morrow morning.
The TIMES, No. X.
TA K£ heed to yourfewes, Tories, or you
may soon fufier a general hueep, the n'ea
e has been proposed already more than
once, fays the General Adverser in Phii,.
delphia. If I understand this threat, it means
that there may be soon a general MaTacr'
One wo,lid flunk by reading the lan*,u«
o the incendiaries of America, that we liv
ed under the dominion of a pope, a Snanifh
lnqUilttioii, or the dey of Algiers. The'at
tempts made to frighten their opnofers,- and
controul their opinions, rank tho Democrats
of the southern states among the molt fan
gmnafy persecutors, the popes rnd the Ne
roes of ancient times. It. is ilrange, hut true,
thatmen are always the fame proud, blood
thinly, perfecting tyrants. In all countries,
in all governments, give men power, and
they become tyrants. Opinions arc never
dangerous, to pejfecute them is always deffio
tifm. Jhe constitution and laws of America,
have no where ;aid a man (hall not believe
in the Pope, the Turkish Sultan, in Mahomet
or George 111. There is no law in America
to punilh a man for thinking a monarchy the
bcjl form of government. So long as o' ini-'
ons do not produce overt-acts against the go
vernment, the opinions are Itgtil, thev are
not crimes, they are not punishable. A'man
is under no legal or moral obligation to think
our republican government.« betlrr form,
tnan the government of the Six Nations or
the Chinefc. Crinus consist only in cbert
a3s : and when crimes are committed, the
lci<ws will puniili them, not men. A man
has the fame right to be a toy, an arif.ucrut
or a monarchy man, in the United States? as
has to be an antifedercU <5r oppofer of the
exjfti.'ijj government.—The opinions of each
of these descriptions of men are equally op
posed to the general sense of America, and
equally hostile to our republican conftitotton.
It is no more a erirrre to bciievcrrrmarcby a m
good government, than it is to believe our
federal constitution a bad~one. So far ascri
m nality is concerned, the tories and ariilo
crats, if there are any who wilh our govern
ment changed to monarchy or ariiiocracy,
and the autifederals, who wish to render it
more deniocratical, are preeifely on the lame
footing. Their opinions differ from the ge
neral will. But the truth is. there no
crimes in either cafe, while opinions reft in
theory and argument. —Our government
guarantees to every man a full right to speak
his ramd freely on'all fubjt<<ls ; jnd to be in
heart a tory, an aristocrat, a Mahometan, a
Jew, a Pagan, a Jacobin or an ant federal.
Our government is a government of tniver
fal toleration. The freedom of America, its
greatefi blefim;>£ feenrts to every citizen the
right of thinking, of speaking, of worihip
ping and adting as he pleases, provided he
does not violate the laws. The onlvpeoole
in America who have dared o violate this
freedom, are tlie.dcmocratical
who have proceeded to threaten violence to
tories, and arijlccrats and federal republicans;
that to people not of their paity. Every
threat of this kind is an ail of tyranny ; an
attempt to abridge the rights of a fellow
citizen. If a man is persecuted for his opi
nions, it is wholly immaterial whether the
perfection springs from cne man or from a ,
society of the people. When men are dis
posed to persecute, power is always right:
weakness always wrong. Power is always
info lent and despotic ; whether exercised in
throwing its oppolers into a baftile ; burning
them at the flake ; torturing them on a rack;
beheading them with a guillotine ; or taking
them off, as at the massacre of St. Bartholo
mew, at a general Jkueep: Power is the fame
in 1 urkev as in America. When the will of
men is raifcd above /aw, it is always tyranny,
and despotism, whether it is the will of a
balhaw or of bastard patriots.
Amer. Miner.
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 6.
The faction that used to clamour for un
funded paper money now fee a legion of de
vils in a system of funded paper. The
problem may be ealily solved. Paper to
cheat with is a glorious machine. It-is a fort
jf hocus pot:us that Vnakes the lender the fer
•am of the borrower. The debtor cliahs
liis cPsditor, crying, I tender you this gold
ind filvejr, the printed com. If you refufe
t. you are an er.emy of your country.-—
This honejl paper iufiuence seems to be to!era«<
%!e enough—but paper that is once funded
that is not a tender for debt, that is the evi
dence of a just debt is full of all mifchiet'—
it is a corrupt influence. The whole mifchief
would vanish if the pledged faith of the pub
lic were broken, then our funded paper
would do for a lawful tender to pay debts. —
In a word a debt that is honestly due, and ho
nestly paid, is the spring head of corruption.
We- h?.ir that the President of the United
States will honor the Theatre with his pre
sence To-morrow evening. *
The late arrivals fromßourdeauJt, though
they might have bro't accounts to the middle
of March, do not appear to fnrnilh .my I'a
tisfaiftory, or authentic intelligence. One
French paper publi.hed in this city, gives the
mod dcplorabie account of the executions
which are flill continued there, and of the
great fearcity which prevails—while another
French paper fays that Bourdeaux is tranquil
—that the scarcity has not been felt as has
been published.
There are reports in circulation that
the embinjo in France was owing to the
American vefTels having fold their cargoes
of provifioiiSt in England and other ports,
and then repairing to Bourdeaux with
calh and credit only, to load for the Uiu- |
ted States ; and that the veflels whicli ar- \
rived here, were particularly released, be- ,
cause they had.carricd provisions dire&ly
to France. . ,
At an Election held yesterday afternoon,
at the Library, for ten Directors aid a Trea-
Jurer of the Library Company of Philadel
phia, for the ensuing year, the following
gentlemen were duly chol'en, -viz..
DIRECTORS.
WILLIAM RAWLE,
THOMAS PARKE,
SAMUEL MiCKLE FOX,
JAMES READ,
JOHN KAIGHN,
JO'IAH HE\V r ;8,
RICHARD WELLS,
MORDECAI LEWIS, '
JOSEPH PASCHALL,
RICHARD WIST AR.
TREASURER.
JOSEPH PARKER NORRIS.
Vhjs evening the lovers of music are
promised another feaft at the Pnofcffional
and Am iteur concert. Tin's City could
never hoaft of poflefiing an equal number
of performers of equal talents. The pie
res for this evenmg's entertainment are
judiciuufly chotuV Tl. • hattlf of
Prague alone, which has never been per
formed here in full band, will no doubt
attradl many amateurs.
Yesterday, in the House of Represen
tatives of the United States, a reiolution
was palled which exempts from the embar
go, a!l (hips or veffela" in the forts of the
United States that are now loaded and
bound to China, or the East-Indies.
Fx!ral! of a Letter from Baltimore dated
ijl May, 1794.
" This day a Certain Captain R—:—,
commanding a brig owned by Mr. Dela
port, of this town, was imprudent enough
to reverse the colours of the United S,tates
and hoi 11 the Britilh above. The People
of the Point, enraged thereat, called him
to account—but, instead of attempting to
vindicate himfelf,he abufedthe Americans,
their measures, government, &c. in the
molt opprobious language— upon which
he was tarred and ftathcred, brought to
town, and led through all the streets, ac
companied by a great concourse oPpeo
p'e, huzzaing at every corner. R ,
is an American.
" I have alio to inform you, that two
B.fnfh brigs(privateerß) belonging to that
scoundrel Emery, of St. Kitts, have ar
rived at Norfolk. The Captains attempted
to evade being difovered, fecretedtheirguns
!» the holds of the veflels, where they were
buried in fait, and went under pretence of
procuring provisions. It being discovered
who they were, the inhabitants of the town
aflembled, fn'zed the vessels, and carted the
the two captains, clothed with tar and
feathers, through the principal .streets of
Norfolk. I had this information from
Pitt the Pilot, who fay 6 he was an eye-wit
nei'sto the scene the day before yesterday."
* The preceeding extra 3 is copied from
the American Daily Advenifer of this mom
">S- 1
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, May 5.
A .V^ ter l / rom Falmomh (England) ,
dated March 19, to a gentleman in this 1
1 city, dates—That the Saturday prints
fay, our cruizers arc ordered to bring in
all Danish veflels. The Turkish Am
bafT «or has left St. Pcterfburgh—and
Robelpierre has abfeonded from Paris.—»
The Packet goes to Halifax with two
mails.
•By a gentleman who came paflenger in
the (Tiip Draper from Dublin* we are in
form that 1300 men had been sent to Bel
faft by government, for the puipofe of
preventing an inlurrefkion, which, appa
rently, would have taken place, had it
not been for the troops.
Yesterday arrived ship Severn, in 45
days from Bristol—-and brig Orange,
Carbery fn 42 days from Dublin.
By the above arrivals we have received
London papers to the 18th March. The
paragraphs which follow, are copied there
from. Other extracts to-morrow.
LONDON, March 18.
It is said, that an examination of a ve
ry serious ai'pect to the parties concerned
h.i; been some time in hand at the Admi
ralty, relative to the loss of poor Capt.
: Cook, and his boat's crew.
i A letter from the Hague, dated March
: 'the 6tn, fays—" The current report here
since yesterday, is, that RulSa has decla
red war the Porte."
The ISOO men sent by the King of
Naples to join the army in Piedmont,
will be commanded by the Austrian Ge
' neral, Zeuthner.
The Duke of Modena is to give
200,p00 ducats to defray the expences
of the war ; and it is hoped that with
this aid, and that of the other states of
Italy, the army in Piedment can be raised'
to 120,000 men. The Croats who arc
to form a part of it are now on their
march through Carinthia.
The Senate of Venice,, pressed by the
ministers of the coalesced powers, has, it
is said, returned for anfvver, that it should
regulate its conduct by that of the Otto
man Porte; and that should the Porte
be forced into a war, the Senate of Ve
nice will determine 011 an armed neutrali
ty—
The emigrant corps in the frrvice of the
Dutch, lately discharged for mutinous
behavior, in can fide ration of their past
services, have had their arms restored, and
are again admitted to the honors of the fer
vicc.
The equipment of some ships of the
line, which was to have begun on the 24th
ult. in the Daniih ports, has been put off,
on account of the late fire at Qhiittiaiif.
burgh.
The Dutch squadron at anchor in the
port of Leghorn has no other object than
to ftrengilien the good underilanding
which fnbfifts between the States-General
and the Regency of Algiers, and hascon
fiderable presents on board for that pur
pole. This squadron, however, may al
io clear the Mediterranean of the French
corsairs which infect it.
A letter from Dieppe, dated the 27th
of February, and brought by a fifhing
boat, contains the following interesting
details refpefting the army of the Royal
ilts:
Their army augments daily ; it at this
time conlifts of above 60,000 men, arm
ed, and divided into troops, exclusive of
a number of brave royalists who have re
tired tor a time, and who begin to rejoin it.
The Limoufin, is in a full ttate of in
furreftion, and they hope will be able to
join the royalists of Lavendee.
In Lower Normandy 7000 men have
taken up arms under a brave commander.
Aflemblies are also taking place at Di
againft whom the Convention have
sent troops ; but they desert, or refute to
march. In faift, every thing promiies a
general infurreftion.
Intelligence is received, that the French
have for the present changed their inten
tions of visiting Gi-eat Britain, fir ft i u .
tending the conqueftof the ifiand of Jer
sey. The force is col!e6Ld at' St. Maloes;
the number announced is 10,000. The
force at Jerfey, CO nfifts of J)4oo> 4COO us
which is militia.
It is rumoured that an order is given to
our ships of war and cruisers to make
prize of all Danish veflels, and to refufe
payment of the dues oil passing the Sound.;
and that this is done to force the court of
Denma'k to declare war against Fiance,
i he Danes are fitting out twelve fail of
r r£ "- e ' V P rotc< their neutrality.
1 here is reason, however, to apprehend
hat the court of Denmark, is fecrctly in
clined to favor the French Revolution,'and
to render it assistance.
, - ■* •' 1 - - "I
Several of the American veflels which
had been taken or detained, as having
pot-nfh as part of their caigoes, and bound
to Holland and other parts, have been
prrmited to depart, but without any pay
ment of demurrage. There are and have
been Ihips of this description in almost e
very port in the channel.
Perpignan remains in jtoffeffion of the
Frenchi
Intelligence has been received from Ita
ly, that 6000 AuftrianS have polfeffed
themselves of>the important poll of Von
timigin, by which it is rendered impofii
ble fur riie French to penetrate into Italy
by the Genoese territory.
No less than eighty-seven Britiih manu
factuiers, allperlons of property, embark
ed in the river last week for America ; a
mong them, are several baizemakers from
Suffolk, where the woollen manufactory,
it seems, is totally at a (land.
AMSTERDAM, March 10.
We learn from Petei (burgh, that the
Turkifli Ambaflador left that place on the
loth of last month, after having delivered
to the Imperial Minister a-memorial refpec
tiug certain objects which the two Coiirts
cannot bring to an amicable termination.
General Balbaroake, who received this
Ambaflador when he arrived on' the fron
tier, is ordered to accompany him thither
0/1 his return, and to be present then at the
exchange of the two refpe&ive Ambassa
dors ; tar M. Kuturoff, who waited only
for the arrival of a fuccefior at Constanti
nople, will depart immediately.
From a London paper of March 17, re
ceived by the Severn', from Briitol.
Two hundred letters which were on
board the Boston Packet, some time since
taken by the French, were on Saturday
received at the general. poll-office, from
Jersey, where the Boston Packet is arriv
ed, having been given up by the French ;
remittances to a very large amount arc said
to be contained in these letters.
Letters brought by Capt. Sa/age of the
Camilla, who failed from Virginia the 18th
of February, state, that on the day on
which he failed, two French men of war
of 74 guns, two frigates of 40 guns, and
two of 18 and 16 guns were turned into"
Hampton Road; the Ambuscade and two
other French frigates were already there,
in- consequence of this intelligence insur
ance to America has arisen from five to
eight guineas per cent. ,
BALTIMORE, May 3.
Yesterday afternoon, another infamous
character, with a label in large letters, de
noting him to be an " American P/rate"
was exhibited through the street?, with
all the honors and insignia, attendant up
on a coat of " Tar and Feathers
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
[days.
Ship Caroline, Gerrifh, Jamaica 26
Sehr. Hope, Town, Charleston 11
Freedom, Burnet, Virginia, 12
Sloop Enterprise, Bradford, N. York. 6
Harmony, M'Coimick, Savannah 9
Samuel, Smith, do. 10
Dolphin, Kentee, do 14
CLEARED.
Brig Hiram, Childs, Warren
Sch'r Jolly Robbin, Price, Falmouth
Columbia,Tupman, Frederickfburgh
Sally, Skinner, Hartford
Slo'op Eliza, Davis, C. N. Mole
Captain Gerrilh, 26 days from Kings
ton, Jamaica, informs, that Captain Bar
ney, in the (hip Sampson, was to have
(ailed for Baltimore in 12 days, having
obtained feeurity for the value of his ship.
Several vefiels were liberated in like man
ner, but the cargoes of all were detained.
A number were sent in shortly before
Captain Gerrilh failed.—Flour at 8 dol- ,
lars, and beef 10. All the ports of the ;
island were juil opened for provisions in
American bottoms, aqd such supplies ex
pected that the flour in store was felling
□ff at auction.
Arrived at New-York, May 5.
Ship Active, Seaman, .Liverpool
Draper, Collins, Dublin
Severn, , Bristol ,
Orange, Carberry, Dublin '
Sloop Nabby, Beebee, St. Bartholomew's
The Swift, Steele, arrived at Belfalt in
16 days from this port.
Boston, April 16.
Arrived (hip Fame, Capt. Davisj from Li
verpool, 64 days. By papers and-letters bro't
in her, we learn the particulars that follow :
The lhip Delight, of this port, Capt. Isaac
Bridges, is fafe arrived at Amsterdam.
On Saturday, Jan. 25th, the lhip George,
of Bolton, Silas JDogget, mailer, from Nor
iolk, was 101 l on the Oaredge, off the Isle of
Shappy. The people all got fafe on lhore,
at Margate, in the boat.
On the 22(1 Jan. the brig Columbus, Ger
rard, from Copenhagen for Boston, was fpok
tn with by Capt. Birtie, in lat. 34, J7) out
114 days, in want of provisions, but the wea
ther being bad, could not be supplied.
The news of the spoliation on the Ameri
can commeroe, in the Weft-Indies, arrived
in England, the beginning of February.
The following velfels were up for Boston,
at Liv rpool, Feb. 13. Ship Sally, Tew;
brig Sally, Johnson ; and (hip Townfend,
Winch—besides one for Norfolk, four for
Baltimore, two for Philadelphia, and two
for New-York.
Sailed from Liverpool, Feb. 6th, lhip Wif
caffet, Holbrook, for Massachusetts.
Letters from Capt. Dowse, of this town,
dated Antigua, March »?, mention, that or
ders had been received there for the release
of American vessels, and that he with his
vessel and cargo, expected to fail from that
liland the next day.
Ninety fail of American vessels passed the
Sound, in 1793* —Of all nations the number
was 9931.
Extract of a letter from London, March 18.
" The merchants have applied for a. con
voy for a fleet to New-York, which has been
granted by government; it is to be a 74"and
a frigate.
C/" The Letter from and
other favors Jhall be pullfhed to-morrow.
Far Baltimore,
BALTIMORE,
PiRkY Benson, Master.
Burthen about 140 cons, is intended to fail
ae fiJOL. as her inward caigo is difVharged, un.
It ft freight fhoulc! offer to detain her. *
For freight apply to the Captain on board
at Hamilton's wljarf, 01 to
&AMUEL & MIERS FISHER,
IVho have fnr Sale,
A FEW PIPES
Cargo TeneriiFe wine
And a lew pipes sweet Do.
Excellent She: ry Wine in quarter casks
London Porter in 42 casks
Whfte and Red Lead and Spamfh Brown
Tin plates in boxc?
An aff.rtment of East India Fans, Nan
keens and Silks
With a>general assortment of Merchandize
as ufiia 1 .
SthMo. 5, 1794 dtf
SHOES.
A quantity of stout well made Men's size
SHOES, adapted ior the Southern market, for
sale at
No. 36, North Third Jlreet.
May 6 mw&fioc
NEW THEATRE.
By Particular
TO-MORROW EVENING,
May 7.
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, called the
Provoked Hujband:
O R,
. A Journey to London.
Lord Townly, Mr. Fennell
Manly, Mr. Green
Sir Francis Wronghead, Mr. Morris
Count Basset, Mr. Finch
Squire Richard, Mr. Bliffet
John Moody, Mr. Bates
Poundage, Mr. De Mouliu
Conftaßle, Mr. WarreU
James, Master WarreU
Lord Townly's servant, Mr. Darley, jun.
Lady Townly, Mrs. Morris
Lady Grace, Mrs. Francis
Lady Wronghead, Mrs. Shaw
Mils Jenny, Miss Broadhurll
Myrtilla, Mrs. Cleveland
Trusty, Miss Willems
Mrs. Motherly, Mrs. Bates
To which will be added, a new serious PAN
TOMIME, originally performed at the
Theatre in Paris, cailed
La Foret Noire ;
O R,
The Natural Son.
Places in the Boxes to be taken at the Box-
Office of the Theatre,at any hour from nine
in the morning till three o'clock in the after
noon, on the day of performance. Tickets
to be had at the office near the Theatre,, at
he corner of Sixth-ftreet,and atCarr & Co's
Muficalßepofitory, No. 121, Market-street
Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarters
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.Philadelphia, Marchi, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
y MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market Jlrcrt,
IWE FIRST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography:
OR, A
Geographical, Hijlorical, and.
Commercial Grammar;
And present state of the feveval
NATIONS OF THE WORLD. ■
CONTAI NlhC,
I. The figures, motions, and distances of
the planets, according to the Newtonian sys
tem and the latest obfervrftions. .
t. A general view of the earth, considered
as a planet; with several ufeful geographical
definitions and problems.
3. The grand divisions of the gfobe into
land and watery continents and islands.
4. The filiation and extent of empires,
kingdoms, Hates, provinces and colonies.
J- Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
.produ&ions, metals; minerals, natual curi
osities, seas, rivers, bays, capes, promontories,
and lakes.
6. The birds and beasts peculiar to each
country.
7. Observations on the changes that have
been any where observed upon the face of na
ture since the molt eaqy periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations; then
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
nues, ta*ss, naval and military strength.
9 The genius, manners, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
10. Their language,learning,arts,fcieuces,
manufactures, and commerce.
IT. The chief cities, ftru&ures, ruins, and
"artificial curiosities
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
distances of prii cipal places from Philadelphia.
To which art added,
1. A Geographical Index, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Table ot the Coins of all nations, and
their value in dollars and cents.
3. A Chr )no logic A l Table of remarkable
events, from the creation to the present time.
By WIL LI AM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Agronomical Part corrected by
Dr. Kittenhouse.
To which have been added,
The late of Dr. Herschell,
and other eminent Astronomers.
Th- FIRST EDITION,
Co rcfted, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firli volume contains twenty-one Maps
a id Charts, besides two Agronomical Plates,
v L
t. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world
3. Europe. 4. Alia. j. Africa. 6. South
America. 7. Cook's difcovc ies. 8. Coun
tries round the north Pole. 9. Sweden, Den
mark, artd Norway, so. Seven United Pro
v.nces. 11 * Austrian, French and Dutch Ne
tbe-larids. 12. Germany. 13 Seat ot war
i iFra ice. 14. France divided into depart-;
ments. IS- Switzerland. 16. Italy, Sicily,
-and Sardinia. 17. Spain aid Portugal.
18 Tu key in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
la d. 23. Weft-Indies. it. Vermont. 22. Ar
m'llary sphere. 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
"the press, will be given the following Maps :
• 1. Ruifla in Europe and Asia.
2 Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
j. China.
6. Hindoltan.
j. United States.
8. Britilh America.
9. Siate of New-Hampftiire.
16. State of Maflaehufetts.
11., State of Connecticut.
ja. State of Rhode lflartd.
j3- State of New-York.
l - State of New-Jersey.
tj. State of Pennsylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
•-17. Staite of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19- State of Kentucky.
23. State of North-Carolina.
Zt. Tennell'-e Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia,
TERMS.
t. This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
J. Subfcriberj pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (56 cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the fucteeding volume
in twenty-four weekly number*, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finiOied, at
the fame price at the firft.
4- The fubtcription will be.raised on the firft
day of June 1791, to fourteen dollars, ex
Clufive of binding.
5. Should any fcopies remain for sale after the
"■ completion ot the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
& The names of the fubferibers will be pub-
I idled as patrons of American literature,
arts,and sciences.
It iawholfy unnecefTary to expatiate on the
advantage.to American readers, that this edi
tion possesses, over every imported edition of
any system of Geography extant. The addit
tion of maps of the several state-, procured a
- a very great expense, and from the best ma
terials that are attainable, speaks such full
conviction on this Aibjeft, that it would be
difrefpeft to the reader's understanding to
suppose it rfiquifite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
similar work have ftith (naps bcenever intro
dsjeed.
The emendations and additions which are
made in thiswork,are innumerable,and oicuj
in every page. The public are referred to
the preface for a flight (ketch of a few of
them.
The piibliftier takes the present opportu
nity of returning his raoll fintere thanks to
those refp stable characters who have favored
him with documents for improving the maps
of several of the dates. He reqnefts a co"n t i
nuance of their kindness; and hopes that such
public spirited citizens, as are poflefTed of si
milar documents, will favor him with their
assistance in perfecting his undertaking. "
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he has been favored, has excitcd
in hisbreaft the warmest sentiments of grati
tude-"—sentiments which time will not efface.
He pledges himfelf to the citizens of the
United States, to Ipare neither pains nor ex
pense to render the prrfent edition ofGuihrie's
Geography improved, deserving of their pa
tronage. waftf
Just Published,
In one handsome volume, iimo. Price 5s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN OR M ROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Chifuut
Strc't,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Cor reded and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
ProfefTor of Moral Philofnphy, and Hie Law
oi Nature, and of Ecclesiastical- History ;
and Minister of the Euglifti Chuich at U
trecht.
Aliquid Temper ad communtm utilitatem af
ferendum. Cicero.
The Firjl % American Edition,
THE grand principle of Equality, if Hght
ly understood, is the only basis on which
universal justice, sacred order, and perfetf
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The view of it exhibited in this
essay, at the fame time that it reprefTes the
insolence of office, the tyranny of pr ide, anc!
the outrages of opprefilon ; confirms, in the
most forcible manner, the neceflity of subor
dination, and the just demands of lawful au-
So far indeed, froip loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate
every natural and every civil diftin&ior
draws more closely every social tie, unite*or
one harmonious and justly proportioned fyf
tern, and brings men together on the eve;
ground of the inherent rights of human n-a
ture, of reciprocal obli2ation, and of a com
min relation to the community.
March 18. tuts
ESSENCE
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared aid fold by Dr. Les, Golden.
Square, Lond n.
THE pub ic i; o Tered on? of the most
efficacious and l'afe medicine , thutnerap
p^ared,-for that most excriiciatinj; pain, the
Tooth-Ache—<-tbe numerous instances of its
bapiy effects, in relieving the afflicted, hav
npw b'ought it into uaiverfal eftimafon; it
notonlv relieves the tOQth-ache, but s of the
utmost service in curing the SCURVY in the
Gums, in preventing the disagreeable fniell
that is produced from unsound teeth, & will
occaftou a sweet breath; it likewise prevent
the teeth from decaying, and will bf found
a general preserver of the Teeth and Gums
Sold in Philadelphia only at
Poynjell's Stationary Store,
No. 2i, Second street.
April 24. tuthfes 3W
JUST PUBLISHED,
A!<JD TO BE SO LD EY
THOMAS DOBSON,
No. 41, south Secondftreet,
Extract of a letter from a gen
tleman in America to a friend in England, on
the Subject of Emigrition—price i-Bth of a
dollar.
Ecclejiajlical EJlabliJhments detrimental to 1
a State. I
Price I 8 of a Dollar.
April g2. mw&fgw
The Ground Plan
OF THE
City and Suburbs
OF 1
PHILADELPHIA. !
TAKEN FROM ACTUAL SURVET*
IT is with pleasure that the publisher has to
inform his fubferibers and the public in gene
ral, that the plate is now under the hands of
the engraver, and in greater forwardnefs than
was at firft contemplated. At the fame time
he begs leave to r mind them, that fubferip
tion papers are still opeo at most of the noted
book-stores in the city ; and that he hopes
from the whole ot them to be enabled to form .
ruch a refpeftable catalogue of names, as will
do a credit to the work, a 5 well as afford a
reafonab'e encouragement to the undert.ke.,
Thole who are delirous of f urt her informa.
tion are lequeftedto call on i
Benjamin Davies,
N0.'68, Market street.
A P tl! *4-
! The Public are cautioned to
, beware of counterfeited Fi-ve Dollar Bills of
(- t'be Bank of the United States, and Twent}
Dollar Bills of lie Bcink of North Jlinerica,
several. of which have appeared in circulation
> ■within a few days past ; they are a good ge-
I net al imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be dijlinguijhid by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
1 for their Alphabetical Mark.
' The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the gentiihe paper.
The O. in the word Company is fmalter
than the M. and other letters of that word,
* so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M would extend con
siderably above the range of the whole word.
In the wojd United the letters ire narrow
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
The i and fin the word promise are not
parallel, the f inclining much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,* he strokes
ff all the Letters are stronger and the devi e
in the margin particularly is much coarfcr and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
of the counterfeits bear date in 1791—-Where
as tfi© Bank was not in Operation till Decern
ber, artd no five dollar bills were iiiued in
that year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America,
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B tor their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly fimtfar
to that of the couutetfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described; the engraving is bettei exe
ncted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, are in mini ber thir
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as described a
bove, the 9 being less than the to, and others
following.
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the J'w and 'hey go
ing below them.
The signature J Nixon, has the appear
Jnce of being written with lamb-black and
oil, and differs from other inks used in
printing the bills and the calhier's signature.
It is supposed these forgeries were committed
111 some of the Southern States, a.s all the coun
terfeits that have appeared, have come from
1 hence, and two persons have been apprehend
ed in Virginia,on suspicion of being the author
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
«vil| be paid to any Person or Persons who lhal
discover and prosecute to convi&ion the several
offenders of the following def«*riptions or any
of them, v'iz.
The peifon or persons, who manufactured
the paper on which the Bills are printed.
The person or persons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, ©f the bills.
Every person who has a&ed as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the fa id bills.
Philadelphia, March 28,1794
Jlpril 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
ter B.
They may be distinguished from the genu
ine by the following MA'ftKS :
The paper of the counterfeits is of a jgjbri
tender texture and glofley farface than the
genuine, and there is no water mark in them
The letter C. in the word Cashier, in the
true bills is strongly nvarked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the wfihle tester is a fine hair
stroke, evidently in an unfinifhed state. The
etter a in the wo*d deinand, is badly formed
an the whole word ill done, and there is 110
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
, marginal device, is much daikfcr in
' e J in the gehtrihe bills owing to
e »ia e strokes being coarser, much nearer
oget er,> and consequently much more nu
merous. This difference strikes the eye at firft
view. J
nnrt IT* rf<Ward of °NE THOUSAND
UULLARS, will be paid for apprehertdiiHr, &
prosecuting r° convi&ion the several above
tLT in fefpeft to this, as to
the laftdefcriW bills. •
THOMAS WILLING, P.tfidcnt
of the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
pcftive Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
T N an eligible situation, —also a Country Seat
whin 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
nd, r42 acres ofJahd and tneadftw, the
1 oufe »s not exceeded by many in the vicinity
the in size, or convenience.
Fof particulars apply to the printer.
m&thtf
> Just Imported,
In tbejhip Abigail, Captain Horton, fnms &
Pet~r/turgb in RuJJia, and now iw-Jim at
' RuJpH's wharf,
' hemp,
BAH IRON,
f RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And for file at the (lores of the fubfcriSet in
Walnut iifeet, N<>■ 82.
"John Donnaldfm.
jtu w wiott
i ; ' __
Treasury Department,
r Revenue Office, Slptil 19, 1
( NOTICE is hereby given, that .projjoftJ
; will be received 'at the office of the CoMiiaif
fianer of the Revenue until the fi-cth of May
iiext inclusively, for the supply «f a IJ R«.
tions, which may be required during the cnr.
rent year, at the city of Philadelphia, lor
t the recruiting service.
I The rations to be furnifhed are to coufift
of the following articles, viz
s One pound of bread or flour,
. One pound of beef, or 34„f a pound pork
| Half a gill of run), brand) or whilky
> One quart of fait,
Two quarts vinegar ( _
Two pounds soap T Per 100 ,a,,0,,,
1 Oiie pound candles J
April '2s. lUW&S2I*
Stock Brokers Office"
No. 16, Wall-llreet, Nfw-Yo* k
THE Subscriber intending to confiac hitnfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE ScSALEop
STOCKSon COMMISSION, h.g« | c „ e , aof
fir his fervicesto his friends and others, i n tiie
line of a Stock Bruker. Those who may I,'. A,-
to f«vor him with ttuir bufinels, may drp't*i
upon having it tr jnfatlcd with theu.molt fide
lity arid dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boftnn, or any
other part of the United Stale?, will be ftrieiy
attended ijt. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&rhtl*
Just Published,
AND TO BE SO LD BY
THOMAS DOB SON,
At the Stone house, No. 41, South 6econtl
Street,
Historical Collections •
V CONSISTING OF
STATE PAPERS,
And other authentic Documents, intended as
materials foran History of the United States
of America.
By EBfcNEZER HAZARD, a. M.
In two large quarto volumes, price ten dol
lars in boards.
SubtcribeTs-TWTtI be fqrni<k>d wirii- -
volume paying three dollars and a quarter
—having paid five dollars and a quarter On
receiving the fir ft.
This second volume comprehends, among
other imerefling particulars, a complete co
py of the Records of the Urn* d of
N- England, in which the conduit ofth6 com
missioners reipe&irtg the gential tomerns of
the colonies—the neighbouring Indians—and
the Dutch at Manhattans (rtow New j is
particularly detailed.
Materials are coHe&ed fuffirfent to
form a THIRD VOLUME, The time of
pobfvfliing will dep-nd on the encouragement
to he derived from iubferiptions whirji will be
reeeived by Thomas pobfon, Philadelphia ;
Jere. Libbey, Portfmoutk, New Ha~npfliirij
Thomas & Andrews, & Dav. We'(l,Bofton; If
aia Thomas, Worcester ; Isaac Beers, New-
Haven; Timothy-Green, New London; Jic*b
Richardson, Newport; John Carter, Provi
dence ; Hugh Gaine, Thomas A!len, e and
Samuel Campbell, New York ; Fred rick
Craig, Wilm ngion, Delaware; fames Rice,
Baltimore; Mr. Lindfey, Nor!oik ; David
Henderfon, Fredericksburg; JohnGramUiar
Petersburg ; Augustine Davis, Richmond; ?
X.Martin, Newbern, N. C. John Bradley,
Wilmington; and William Price Young,Cha<-
tefton.
April 4. nivP&fyr
Treasury Department,
Re-venue Office, April i6rh, 1794.
Communications by post or
other Wife, will be'received bv of infor
mation at the Office of »he Commiflion r of
the R ev en Ue from pCrfons willing 16' fur.ply iron
Cannon, Cannon Ball, and SheUs, for the fan
tificaiions and Ships of War. The fimefe of
the metal for cannon, and the capacity of rbe
founders in fbiehing-, in preparing and mix
ing the nietal, and in calling aud boring the
cannon (which are to be cast fofidly) will re
qn're to be particularly stated.
S imflar communications will also be receiv
ed from ahy perlbns willing to supply live
oak and r£d cedar timber for the conftrn&j<*n
of thefhips of wa*". Different. plans of-'pro
curing and supplying the fa*me may be propos
ed. The convenience of the (it nation in re
gard to navigation, and theftateof the timber
Whether already fallen or hereafter 10 be cot,
will require to he noticed.
All the necessary particulars in regard-to
thefevcral articles \vh?ch are wanted, will be
fpecified tr. com rafts intended to be grounded
in on the Information, which is hereby
fought.
April 17. tnth&scw.
PHILADELPHIA :
PRiwTEt) BY JOHN FENNO, "NO 3
South Fourth-Street.
I