EVENING AD V E R T I S E R.
[No. iii of Vol. V.] Tuesday, April 22, 179 4- [Whole No. 50 7. j
Tor Norfolk & Frcdericksburgh,
good veftel, will fail in a few
dzys. tor freight or p :flkge, apply to the
inafter on board at Chefnut street wharf, or
,l> JOSEPH ANT HO NT & SON.
March ji.
"for Sale or -Charter,
A NDKOMACHE,
IS i tfont good veflkl, about two years old,
foSFThen tcyu% has only made thice voy
and may be-ient to lea at a finali ex
-■pena* She may be 1 fee n at Vi ; >e-{treet Mfhari,
a«d tUe terms made looavd by application to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
March 2i. 4** _
For Amsterdam,
The new fall-failing, copper
%. bottomed SHIP
figgl ADRIAN A,
K. Fitzpatrick, Miller.
BUILT of live oik and cedar and was in
tender: for a fjvtrpobl Trader, will fail with
30 -o'.l'Knient speed. l"or freight or paflage,
ksvittg excellent accommodations, apply on
ttrtswdir Walnut street wharf, or to
™ TflOS. & JOHN ZETLAND.
ST. B. PaffTcngers will be landed in Eng
fafid'if required.
Rfcrck by 1794-
Just Imported,
8* {Tie Sfirp. Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
few Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN 'in pipes,
A fino bales Holland buck,
K ■ :Mit»Oznabargs, '
■ Holland Sheelir.g,
ywiiper Berries,
(fhijs '/Fare, w4. Tumblers and Mugs, Dfl
rio:is Jizes. t .
fb/atMrig. Paper,
Swedes .['on, fqnare and fiat bars,
Hair liibbmm, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A~.ty of 'Junk anil Oakum, Ljc. Of.
FOR SALI! BY
THOMAS IvETLAND, Jun.
T/y.i ahove-mnilianed Ship is for Sale—-
etfar&ifi jie will take freight for Amjltr-
Aim*.
March t, 1794- d—tf
fix Profits arising front the foilwing publi
cation are for the benefit of- the Poor.
tuft publiffied, printed- by R. AithW and
Son, and fold' by J. Crjikihank, \V. Young
f . Dobfon, and the other Bookfeliers,
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed on the 1-4tfc September 1 793, by
the Citiisns of Pailadelphia, -the Northern
liberties, and the Dftrift of Southwark,
to atie'd to and alleviate the .fufleriugj of
rlie aHfifted.with the Malignant Fever,pie
tfal'ent, in ttli City and its vtcinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
CON T A !N G
A lift of persons adnv; ted into the Hofpi
ral at liufti hi.l, Slewing the times of their
admifEoo, usathauddifchaxge.
l&imuer of Iluui'i s, Deaths, &c. in the
refpetHve alleys, and couits in the
(Sty ot Philadelphia, Nmthern Liberties, and
MMfS «t S'Jiithwark.
A lift of the Interments in the Burial
ground's in-tlie eity.of Philadelphia, Northern
liberties, and Diftridt of Southwark, with a
AfeteWbtogiCal account of the weather.
A luminary of donations in cash and provl
Ifonf, received from sundry persons and pU
e&f, 1 for fie uf:<jf the poor and afflicted.
: d i^_
A PEW BARRELS OF
POTATOES,
Well [£eked, out of a very large quantity—
and a few
Tierces of Rice,
• FOR SALE BY
Louis Ofmont,
No. 117, north Second street.
*?• dtf
Louis Ofmont,
Ha* removed from No. 40, noith Third street,
to No. j»7, north Second ltreet, between
Aich and Race streets, in thole stores lately
occupied by Mr. Starman, opposite to MciTu
] W. and \Vi Gibhs, w.fieh: he keeps his
Wholesale Wareheul'e, tor the falc cl all
ions of GOODS, and the traafaaion pi all
commifiion Eufiucfs, and
Has now for Sa\e, o
White silk stockings,
High du-flcd Engirfti fafhion
A box of French pomatum
Hanging Paper of (he b'eft patterns and co
lours
A few pieces of Long Lawns
An invoice ot Sattm C'oaks, which on ac
count o I trie fealbn will be Ibid low and at a
long credit
Champaign Wine 6 years old
A few pipesLilbon Wine
£)<i. do. PoitWl'ie
do. Madeira
Som e Ca'lcavelU Wme
Bur^ u "dy Wine aud Cl»ret. V^
April l - ,
The following Certifi
«„teo» the funded three pi r Con Suick ot the:
Do.mftic Debtol the Un.ea Su.cs on
the books of the T-reaiury qt the Ui£ United
States, in the names ol
London, merchant,, and figocd by Jo'cph
Nouile, Rc'g'ftcr of f.id Tu.lury, to wit .—
N , <476, dated H h Aoguft .792 tor *959
dollar j and 3 3 cents «M tranlrolltea
don ill the thip Peter, Paul Hulfey, iwOer,
bound for New York, and ha, been loU.—
The Subscriber intending to apply to the rea
fury of the United States to have the l,»>e re
nted, defue. allpe.fons who a,e intend.,,,
the said certilicaie, to make their objections
thereto, if any they have.
Francis Macy.
Philad. March 27-' d6w
"^TYXTcYT - "
(PJ- THE fchoouur DELIGHT, the pro
per iy of M«nu.l Antonio Martin, ol the 11-
l.ttio of BjjiJ y.IU, was or, tbe 18th of Oc
tobei tait,wlii« l>' m S at anchor in the io<ul Hp
»iUt Ifliud, toicibly entered and earned ult
by JOHN D'JNHAM, JOHN MWW a
nun by the nanro of DODGu:, and .one other ;
pari'on, name unknown. —vellel was ioid j
to.VI A. Martin, by William iWNeill, who,
came to Bona-VitUin her, I ton Madura.— J
Sue was built in the c'junty ol Matthews,
Ifate of Virginia, and was regifter-tfefat New-
York, the 16th Aprd, .793—Her irame was
printed on her Iterit— Her
laws : a 6 leet 6 tnehes kee., lbfeet 6 inches ■
bcdiu, no.d 6 feet 2 inches, lier.burthen 54
tuns - <r 1
At the time of iheir eii.enng the vellel,
there was a black man on board by-the name
of BaKbaaqr, whom they carried oil withthui). |
the other perions wefe mariuets. DuAhum
is a married man, and hus a family at Nan
g pieces Broad Jo^li; 1 do. 9 do. '79 pieces
Cotton, (needle, woiked)—33 do. do inferior,
s moys of Salt j file had lev.en foall arms and
:°,m P' ftols - . .
If any person can give any information of
this vellel, or any part of the property, fotliat
it can be recovered, or the oitenders brought
oj ju'l'ce, tbey are requeued to inform MeflVs. |
JoscSH Anthony and Sow, Philadelphia ;
Muit nay and Mumfojd, New-Yoik ; Laark
and Nightingale, Providence; or Heau
and Ajiory, Boftoii.
March i). diw.
■- ■ ■
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate I
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commissions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents'of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, feeond year of
the French Republic, one and iadivifible
(March 6th, 1794, 0.5.)
The Minister Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are requested to republith the
foregoing notice. d
CC/" This Gazette Jhallle enlarged, as It
receives enafuragement—Tbe Subscription
encreafes daily—Advertising Favors art
folicited —Tbefe eonjiitute an ejfential Item
in diminishing the Debit fide of tht Account.
A FEW POUNDS
V A NIL L A,
FOR SALE BY 1
Louis Ofmont.
April 19. ' djt.
Excellent CLARET,
111 hogP*cd>i& and in cases of 50 bottles cacb?
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111, South Front ilfccet.
Jan. a;, 1794. dtf
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Maiket-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery,
10 vxoibM in anew point .ot v.iew
it &etftds on morals, hidujiry, and the peace of
Jociety. Some tatU and calculations ai e otlered
(o prove the labor ii'if itcmen to be much more
pwdufiw than that oi Jlavet ; thai countries are
1 Acjh, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring pe&pie enjoy th'e triads of tlieii own
labor ; and hence the m ciffai y concl'ufioo, that
llavery is impolitic as well js unjujt.
Pjri ck 25 Cents. dtf
February 15.
Lately Published.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street :
Hillary of N< w.Humplhttc, horn the
rDVftovt-ry of the River Pitcirtaqua—by Je
remiah Belknap, D. D. 3 Veils. Prioc m Boards,
4.1 DolUis.
The Forrcftcr, an American Fable, being a
S'qucl to the Hillory ot John Bull the Cioihier.
Pice, 75 Gents.
A l.Mcouife, intended to commemorate the
Discovery ot Anienca by Chrii\opher Colum
delivered at the rcqucft of the Hiitoricai
Society in Maifuchufctts, Odober 23d, 1792,
bemg ibe completion of the Third Ctntury,
lince 1 hat memorable event. To which arc
added, Four Diirertations, connected with the
fubjtff—By the fame author. Price, £0 Cents.
MHl*C|ti7. tutf&l^w
Just Published,
In one handsome volume, nmo. Price $s
AND FOR SAL'S BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 4 1, Second
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Carretted- and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
ProfeiTor of Moral Philosophy, ahd the Law
• oi' Nature, and of EcclelialHcal History ;
ahd Mlriillfer of the Englilh Chili ch at U
treclir.
Aliquid semper ad communenl utilitatem af
ferent! uin.
The Firjl American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality, if right
ly underflood, is the only basis 011 wlud>
uiiiverfai juftlce, sacred order, and perfect
freedom, can be firnrty built, and permanent
ly Itcurcl. The view of it exhibited ill tbis
eflay, at thd fame time that it reprfcijes the
mfolence of office, the tyranny of pride, and
! the outrages of oppieffion ; confirms, in $he
\ niolt'forcible manner, the nfceeffity ol fubur
j dination, and the just demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loofenirig'the j
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftinftion,
draws niori cTo' ely every social tie, unites in
one harmonious and jultly proportioned lyf
tem, and brings: men together 011 the even
ground or the inherent rights ps human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
Match 18. ~ ■ ' tu&ftf
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Houses or Public
Offices,
Two brick 3 story Houses,
HAVIN-G 6 1001ns in each, wiih fire places
befidc garreis, Gtuate on the south westerly fide
of Dock ftrtct, between fear and Walnut
ftrccu. Eriqoireof
3EXJAMIN IV. MORRIS.
April 11. tuth&stf
UNITED STATES.
BOSTON, April 12.
HUMANE SOCIETY.
At a late meeting of the TrusteeS o
the Humane Society, information of the
following event given to them, and
fully authenticated.
On the 26th ps March last, about I
o'clock, P.M. as Mr. Stephen Twiftand
Mr. Hopeftill Bradlee, both furthers of
the GarriCon at the Castle, were fiihing in
a small c#noe, between I.ong-Ifland head
and the east point of Speftatle-Iflatid,
they Were fuddtnly overtaken with a hea
vy squall of wind, which induced them
to attempt gaining the shore \<?ith all pof
ilble speed. While they were endeavor
ing to accompli fh this, against an high
sea and a severe fret of wind, they descri
ed something at the distance of two or
three hundied yards from them, which
they soon concluded to be the head of a
man. They instantly determined to go
to his relief, hazardous as the attempt
was ; and tacking about soon came near
him. Here they paused for a moment,
and with great presence of mind required
from the man an absolute and sacred prfl
mife, that he would not attempt to toufch
their canoe except in the manner which
they fllould prefcri'oe—as seizing it iiji
prudf ntly might destroy them as well V.3
himielf.
This prctr.ife he made them—and wfytn
they nrae to him he defiit'd them to saVe
his little son, of about fix years i;ld,whora
he was holding 111 his arms. Him they
took in at the head of the canoe. Mv.
Twist then turning it round.and dii'eqt
fng Bradlee with the child to lie down in
the head, he drew the man gently into the
canoe, at the stern, and then for the
shore of Speftacle-lfland, wliicn, nctwith
ftanding tfie violence of the wind, they
reached in fafety. Here they were re
ceived by the people of the I(land with
the utmost "kindness and hospitality, and
after di'.ers applicatlpns the child, who
appeared perfeft'y dead when brought on ,
shore, was restored to animation.
The persons saved, were Mr. Thomas
Barnes of this town, and. his son. Mr.
Barnes relates, that the boat in wliich he
and his ftsn with Mr. Wiliam Brown and
Mr. John Dailey (both alfo.of this town)
were, was funk at the firft coming up of
the squall; that he caught his son as the
boat was finking,,and providentially fe;zed
the top of the mad, (which was two feet
under water) with one hand—by this he
held fact, while he clasped his child to his
bosom with the other. In this fituatiou
he remained more than half an hour, be
fore the canoe came to his relief. The
two men, Mr. Brown and Mr. Daily, at
tempted to swim to Long-Island, but fail
ed in the attempt, and were both drown
ed.—
TheTruftees gave to Mr.Twi(l> (who
was principally active in the bufijiefs) a
reward of ten dollars; and to Ms:,
lee a reward of five dollars—lor their
lial exertions on this occafior. —ani direct
ed this account to be published to their
honor, to induce others to imitate'the-hu
manity, enterprise, and prudence cf these
worthy men.
SHIP NEWS.
Capt. Afhmead left Calcutta the 24th
Dec. and Madrafs the 9th January—he
failed from Calcutta in company with the
ship Adventure, Chapman, Boston, home
ward bound. The ship Dispatch of Bos
ton, Newell, failed from Calcutta 15 days
before him. The 6th inft. in lat. 26; 52,
long. 62, 44., heTpoke the brig Polly.
: Capt. Campbel,from Philadelphia, botftta
to St. Euilatia, Out 18 days.
On the 10th do. in lat. 30$ 6, long.
67, 40, was chafed for several hours, by
2 Bermndian Privateers, one cal'ed the
Experiment, of 14 guns, and the other
the Enterprize of 12 do. but findiity
him to-be from an English port, and houjid
to a neutval one, they gave him no fuf ihtr
trouble(
Foreign Intelligence*
Continued from the London Papers
received, ly Capt. Truxtox.
BASLE, Jan. 24.
Previous to the famous affair of Ger
(lieim, the utmost discontent prevailed a
mongst the armies. The Auftrians ac
eufed the Pruflians of hanging back, and
leaving them foremoft to the fire of the
enemy. The Piuflians retorted the
charge. The Saxons quarrelled with the
Bavaiiaus, and the Heflians accused the
Palatines of cowardice. In this state of
things, the French continually harrafling
them, and a dearth of liquor taking place
(a gill of spirits fold for twelve sols) the
Auftrians were benumbed with cold, and
saw she French soldier enjoying his bottle
with every comfort that the season requi
red. A general discouragement and num
berless desertions were the consequence.
At length, the French stormed the
batteries at Gerfheim, the molt formida
ble that have been ever known ; three
tiers of artillery, the guns placed "en \
Cremaillitrc," so as to produce a triple
line of crossed fire, and the whole well
manned ; but what cannot bravery do !
The line broke, the French fell upon the
Combined Troops with the bayonet.
For fix hours the French never ceased
killing with the bayonet, without firing a
fi.ot; fatigue obliged them to halt; the
defer tcrg arrived in hundreds.
The French, fi:ill pursuing arrived at
the lines of Weiffembourg, where in ad
dition to the immense capture of baggage
ti:ey found all the artillery they had iolt (
at this place, together with an enormous
magazine of powder, destined for the
siege of Landau ; a part of the allies re- I
serve artillery was also abandoned at Lau
terbonrg. The Auftrians had the barba
rity to place a lighted fueee to blow up
the magazine, though they had left near
1500 of their wonnded in the town, and
near tooo prisoners; the French arrived
time enough to prevent the explosion;
the Auftrians crofted the Rhine to Man
nheim, and the Pruflians retreated to
Worms.
STOCKHOLM, Jan, 26.
The trial of the confpirat.j s of Stock
holm is suspended : It is thought that the
arrival of Baron D'Armfeldt, who is to
be conduced as a prisoner frgm Italy in
to Sweden, is deemed neceflary to throw
greater light upon this affair; mean while ,
a secret ferment prevails; the officer 011 ]
guard near the Couiitcfs of Rudenfkold,
who has' been transferred to the prison
for Criminals, was threatened with death,
on the 14th instant in the street, by some
unknown persons masked, if fye we're not
set at liberty in the course of four day?.
In consequence, the patroles which parade
Stockholm night and day have been in
creased, and the guards doubled. A re
ward of a thcufand dollai-s has been pro,
mifed to those who fhal! give information
of the individuals in masks, who threaten
ed the officer.
FRANKFORT, January 21.
ricld Marshal Moeflendorf, appointed
to the chief command of the Prufiian ar
my on the resignation of the Duke of
Brunfwick, arrived here last night, and
immediately set out for Mentz.
The French have fallen back towards
the mass of their forces ; their head quar
ters are at Newfladt. Worms, and
irankenthal, after having been plundered
of every necessary, are at length evacu
ated.
Colonel de Maek is arrived to regene
rate the disorganized army of the unhap
py Wurmfer: that object being accom
phlhed, he returns to the army of Co
bourg, of which he is appointed quarter
master general, a pod occupied hereto
fore by Prrnee Hohenlohe. The latter is
to have a drftrnct corps under his immedi,
ateor der,, which will probably be employ
ed between the armies in the Netherlands
Lorraine" °" nc > to °P cratc against
' _ PARIS, January 26.
Letters from Lyons mention that the
executions continue without intermiflion •
that in spur days there were persons
guillotined at Lyons and 339 ftot.
Marfefflesig declared to be in a state of
siege. General La poype commands
th efred the '"habitants on
General DugontWr, who lately com
mand at Toulon, is appointed to command
ths'army of the Eaitern Pyrennees.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
January 26.
A deputation of Americans" was ad
mitted to the bar, and the orator demand
ed the pardon of Thomas Paine, that
apostle of Liberty, and whose arrest was
a species of triumph to all the tyrants on
earth. His papers had been examined,
and far from finding any dangerous pro
poiitions, the committee had traced only
the chara&ers of that burning zeal for
liberty—of that eloquence of nature and
philosophy—and of those principles of
public morality, v which had through life
procured him the hatred of despots and
the love of his fellow citizens. They de
manded, therefore, with confidence, that
Thomas Paine ihould be restored to the
fraternal embrace of his fellow-citizens,
and they offered themselves sureties for his
conduct during the (hort time that he
Ihould remain in France.
The President, after a high compliment
to the American people, (aid, " You de
mand from us Thomas Paine—you are an
xious to re-condu6t to your own fide the
afTertor of the Rights of Man—We mult
applaud this geneious devotion—Thomas
Paine was born in England—that was
enough to fubjeft him to the decree in the
firft instance, which our own iafety de
manded by the revolutionary laws. The
Convention will take into consideration
yaur demand."
January 27.
Letters from Sans nom, (Marfeillcs)
19th January.
The Revolutionary Tribunal of this
j city is Hill actively employed, and the
I heads of several conspirators fall daily.
I The Representatives of the people are em
ployed in regenerating the public spirit,
and in terrifying those' who might be
tempted to partake in new conspiracies.
I They have resolved, that henceforth the
I name of Marseilles, which this criminal
commune still bears, /hall be changed,
and that the National Convention (hall be'
I intreated to bestow on it another. In the
I mean time it (hall remain Sans-nom, (with
! out name) and (hall bear that denomijia-
I tion. The buildings in which the aflem-
I bjies of the feftions and -of the general
committee were held, (hall be razed, and
I a gallows, which (hall perpetuate the re
membrance of their revolt, be ere&ed on
j the ground they occupied. An exa£i in
' ventoj-y (hall be taken of the fnrniture,
' &c - in them. The furniture (hall
j February 1.
Republicans from Dunkirk, admitted
I at the bar, deposited on the altar of the
Republic the spoils of the churches.
I rliey added to them feme patriotic dona-'
I tions, among which were jewels worth
1000 livres, 968 marks of gold and sil
ver, 9>4°° I'vres in specie, 13,300 livres
in alTignats, 2,300 Hurts, &c. The vo
luntary loan consists in 110,000 livres,
I
I "It is thus," faidthe spokesman, "we
proye our inviolable attachment to the re
public one and indivisible. Placed on the
remotest, in the most dangerous pott, we
will defend it to the last extremity. Woe
be to the dastardly Britons, if they dare
to appear on our coast. We present you
a tent taken from that rogue the Duke of
fcflk °? n hC J e r Y day °" which he wa * -
so (hamefully Chafed-back from before the
walls of Dunkirk : as the word Dunkirk
ugnifies the church of the Dunes we re
qiieft that that city may be called Dune
-Libre. He concluded by requesting the
Convention to remain at their potts. "Ho
norable mention, and insertion in the bul
■ letin.
■ " Our land forces, said Barren, one of
the committee of public fafety, have made
a glorious campaign : and our naval forces
p P rcc , ure "s an honorable peace.
toidTi r talked of; y° u have b <*»
! hat y° u mcan to fubjetf the Entrlifh
tTtJnf 0 « that y° u
to transport Paris to London. Whv will
you lavish so much French blood 1 the con
federate powers sue for peace. You wi(h
to dethrone all kings— do you wHh it for
at least' 16 ," Rdo ' n S the revolution, or,
at leatt. , n order to retard its bencficial
frequences? This i s the common la"
guage of the moderates. The committee
prepare a terrible 'war, with the only view
peac°e -X"! * n - peaCe - You desir e
s«^J^s^ k T d d r' , ' r, ° tb "•
, P rlce ! A diplomatic aeent
w a neutral country said the other day,
" the confederate powers arc willing pro
-1 vifionaliy to acknowledge the French Re
public" [btirfts of laiurhterj well, let us
provisionally destroy aH tyrannical govern
ments. [Applauded. J Do you know
what the coaielced kings are proposing to
you ? A cefTation of hoflilities for two
years. [No cefTation of hostilities ! was
the general cry.J They offer you a two
years armistice, for the purpose of efta
bli/hing among you new Vendees, in order
to recover their exhausted strength, to car
ry off your merchandize, to infett the
popular societies by their agents, to stir up
new conspiracies among you; perfidioufly
to take from you your arms, your provisi
ons, and to give you at last some royal
scoundrel for a master. This is the cefTa
tion of hostilities which is offered you ; at
■the term of its expiration, they will grant
you peace, they fay; and this peace is to
be ratified by the French people. Can it
be forgotten, that a faction, whose inten
tion it was to destroy liberty by this means,
made a similar proposal ? The French
people desire peace ; but an honourable
peace, a peace such as we shall be ready
to sign.
The tyrants offer you peacc, because
they have neither money nor foldicrs. A
| negotiator said lately in Switzerland/
" But suppose it was intended to talk of
peace, to whom in France should fen ap
plication of that kind be addressed ?"
"To whom? This is not difficult to be
determined," answered the national agent;
" we have one hundred thousand .negotia
tors at the army of the Rhine ; a hundred
thousand in the south; as many at the
northern army," (Bursts of applause,)
i Why should the French people not att as
j Rome did > Why fliould we not surround
all kings with thefamous circlcof Popilius >
If the British people wiih for peace why
do they not detach theinl'elves from their
infernal and despotic government ? Let
them cease to behave like slaves, and we
will grant them peace.—The kings, we
are told, demand peace—but what have
these despots hitherto done to Obtain it i
, —Havtf they ceased to provoke the neu.
; tral governments against us, and to direct
. their perfidious mancevres against a free
. people ?. Arms and gunpowder must alone
procure us peace.
The city which struck off the head of
the Tyrant must also, furnifh the arms
and powcW which is to save Liberty. E
very day you hear the fire-arms *ried,
which near your walls are made with un
exampled activity !
But it has been necessary to surmount
great obstacles ; inflruments were to be
made, and workmen to be taught; patri
otism wanted the alliftancr of art ; atfirfl
we had no more than 2J artificers able to
make good muflcets, and who all came
from Maiib'euge ; at present their number
is lincreafed to 500. Six hundred and
eighty muskets are now made in a dav
| and 6800111 a decade. We have 15 foun-'
denes, which.monthy produce 00 pie
ces of ordnance." He next ftaftd what
had been done for the fabrication of fklt
petre. " There cxifts," said he " a new
r way of accelerating its extra&fon ; the
. chymifts have with their" art assisted the
qaufe of Liberty, and this discovery a l Olle
would save us. We want, for the next
campaign, 24,000,00cft of powder— |
They are ready- But our enemies may
employ against ns new perfidies, buni
some magazines, and make others furren
, cr - We must be prepared for every e
vent ; and for this reason your commit
tee is to propose to you new means.
Jambon Saint An'dre said, he had new
fuccefles to announce. Breard and him
felf had ordered a squadron of three ships
of the line and some frigates to cruize off
the coast of Ireland. They hadj-eturn
ed to Brest on the 23d of January after
f having made 15 prizes', of which 12 were
; already come into port, viz.
1 A Jersey corsair, carrying 10 guns, ta
ken by the Jean Bart.
La Mifiere, a Damfh brig, 120 tons,
from Amflerdam for Madrid, loaded with
grain, taken by !a Felicite.
Ihe Rural Maid, an English vessel of
three maft6, 300 tons, taken by the
Thames, an English frigate, now French.
The Mermaid, an Enghfh brig of 50
ton?, from Oporto, with wine and oran
ges, taken by the Infurgentc.
The Guftavus, a Swedi/h brig, 200
tons, from Stockholm, with grain, &c.
for Leghorn, taken by the Northumber
land.
The Concord, an American vessel, 300
tons, and three mails, from Philadelphia,
with sugar, coffee, and cotton, for Eng.
land', by la Felicite.
The Suites, a Danish brig of 250 tons
from Amsterdam for Madrid, with giaiii
taken by the Infurgente.
The John, Sayer an American veffd
400 tons, from Virginia for England, with
tobacco, by the Infurgente.
The Daennates, a Danish brig, 200
tons, from Amsterdam for Leghoir.
with grain, by the Thames.
The Commerce of Bolton, an A men.
can brig 150 tons, from Boston, with
sugar, coffee, and cotton, for England, b'v
the Infurgente.
1 The Grenville, an English vessel, of
three marts and 300 tons, with coals, ta
ken by the Achillt.
• The Bonny, , an Englilh brig,
200 tons, with fait, taken by the Infur
gente.
The three other prizes arc expedled e.
very hour.
COPENHAGEN, Jan. 21.
Four members of the commission, 0 f
which Grouville, the French AmbaiTador
is the chief, the citizens Aubray, Ho.
nore, Caftera, arid De La Mare, sent to
about 150 persons of this capital invitation
cards couched as follows,:
" Libert)', Equality, Fraternity !
Sir, You are invited by jhe French citi
zens, Aubray, Honore, Caftera, and I)e
La Mare, to be present at a ball and sup
per, which is to take place on Friday next
at the house of Rouch, in order to cele
brate the recapture of Toulon. The ball
begins at 6 o'clock."
Some pcrfons acccptcd the invitatior,
others declined it ; but when the govern
ment were informed of those
it thought proper to prevent a Mival
which might be attended with the moil
diiagreeable conftquences. The Intend
ant of the Police sent orders to the tavfm
keeper, Rouch, not to fuffer it to' be 51'v
en in Ins house— consequently it did nyt
take place, and the French commiiTaries
[ who had prepared it applied to the ma
gi/lrate for passports to quit our capital •
though they were immediately given to'
them, they are still in Copenhagen,
LONDON, J an.
» - Admiral Macbride is to have the com
mand of a fleet at the Nore, and will hon. \
ly horfl his flag there.
Yesterday the attorney and solicitors <ve -
neral and governors, and deputy govern
or < f the Bank of England had an inter
view with the miniftcr, at his house in
■Downing street, on t!ic new bill for put.
ting all French money into what the Jaco
bins call, a itate of arreftation.
. King ps Spain has published, in
imitation of his Britannic majeftv, a ma
niferto, or public declaration, explanatory
of his femimcnts towards the French na
tion.
1 he prince of Cofcourg is about to sur
render the command of the grand army
in Flanders, to the duke of Brunfwick.
Captain Curtis ftaod twelve hours »t
the helm, in the Swallow, on board of
which was the marquis Cornwallis i„
coming through the Channel,, in cor.'e
quence of their being chafed by a French
privateer.
( Pr ' ncc Efterhazy paTed Frankfort on
the 22d uli. and was supposed to proceed
to England. Tlie prince isfaid to be sent
on a private buhnti'3 from the Emperor.
Envoys from the other allied powers are
expected to affemtle in London'in order
to concert meafiires with our miuiftry con
cerning the present circumltanccs of the
war.
An article from Magdebourg favs, the
reason why M. la Fayette, Lamet'h, and
the other French officers are removed from
here to Glatz and Sileha, is, the expefVed
arrival of a number of their countrymen
prisoners of war. M. Lameth has enjoy
ed but a poor state of health ever lince lie
came; but by the king of Pruflia't leave,
his mother has attended him. All thofe
prifoners are said to have had the liberty
of reading, and to have been well flip plied
with books from perlons poffefiing libra
ries.
February 10.
Saturday the Duke of York paid avifit
to the King Queen and Princefles, at
Windfoi Lodge, when a very affectionate
interview took place. The Duke llayed
about two hours, and afretwards returned
to Oatlands.
The Duke and Duchess of York dined
with their Majesties at the Queens Ledge.
The object of the Duke of York sjour
ney to England at present is principally ta .1
' 0s
cancert with Government on th? ift?afures
cf the ensuing campaign. j
On Saturday Capt. G. P. Ricketts
was appointed Govertioc General and
Commander in chief of Barbadoes.
The Englifil prifonersat Havreamount
ed to about 400, and were on the point
of being removed to Rouen, where 3000
were confined.
We have no authority to believe the re
port of General Jourdain's arreit. It may
be so, but the Paris Gazettes down to the
23d are silent on this fubjeft,and the cir
cum'iaiices are unknown to any of the
gentlemen who came with the duke of
York to England.
General Pichegru has quitted the com
mand of the French army of the Rhine to
re-place Gen. Jourdain at the army of the
North : The former is re-placed by Gen.
Hoche, who is now at the head of the
two armies of the Rhine and the Mozclle.
The Spaniards are said to have evacua
ted Co'.lioijre; the place, however, is com
manded by the cannon of the fort of St.
Elmr, which was (till in their pofleffion. !
—A loan of twenty millions of piastres is !
opened in Spain for the support of the !
war.
The rea(bn of appointing the duke of
Br;nfwick to command the combined ar- '
mies in Handers, is supposed to be the !
probability of their being obliged to re- 1
treat, a branch of the art of war in which j
his fereHe highness has lately had great op
portunities of improving.
For the Gazette of t'n United States.
Mr. Fskno,
< A correspondent in the General AJver
tlfc.i of Thursday afVs, what means public
credit ? It may be answered that it means a
ch;rafter for honor and probity, which en
able* a country to avail itfelf on any emer
gency, of the wealth of its own citizens or
of that of a foreign country. In a free coun •
try it conftitates a J'afd capacity for borrow
ing—without which liberty may be put in
jeopardy at any moment a defpntic power
may fee proper to attack it—Nor is it con
ceivable how this capacity can in'a free
country be " the means of ca»f:ng a diftinil
ir.trrclt from that of the whole community."
The ability cf a community to discharge
its engagements depends on the general pros
perity of the qvholc people; hence it be-
Oi~*rs moil ohviouilv, the interest df the
ptK.iic Creditors to do every thing in their
power to p-omote this general prosperity—
Neither is public credit a yoke for posterity—
for no man in his senses would prefer loan
ing his property to a community which should
leave to another generation to discharge the
obligations of the present; it is therefore a
d-ftate of the soundest policy to provide for
the ear'ies payment of every public debt.
It may b? doubted whether " public credit
has been the source of innumerable misfor- i
timet to Europe"—On the other hand, it is
demonPrahlc that the wars of that quarter
of the globe nave occafiov-d th- accumula
tion of their debts; the pub!.: creditors have
most cbviouily an interest direilly opposed
to war; tmlefs it can be made to appear
that the depre-oon of the funds is promotive
Of their im< reft. There is a truer cause cf
war to be afligned than ft at of ditninifhing
the capacity of a cfcnnrry to discharge its ex
i Img obligations—Wience coihe wars and
fightings, favs. aq, old fashioned book—
" Cpme they not hence even of your iufts >"
Until mankind, or at leall th- majority,
shall cease to bo actuated by resentment,
rage, and ambition it is utepiaa, to expeil
that wars (hill cease.
The United States are at this moment
most critically situated—it is in the opinion
cf many, )io longer optional with us, whe
ther we ihal) be committed in the war or
not. '1 hole who are for an i:nmediate deci
sion on the part of the government to en
gage in hostilities with Great Britain-—ad
vocate at the fame mom nt the annihilation
of public credit. Those who are for fup
poi ting the peace of the United States, urge
the most ettVctua l preparation for national
defence and security, and as a mean indis
pensable to this object, are solicitous to pre-
Jerve the public credit—the present positive
state of fails, absolutely contradicts the as
sertion that public credit is the parent of
■war —for lb: friends of peace, are branded
as the enemies of their country, for wishing
to support public credit—while those who
decry public credit, are clamorous for mea
sures which must inevitably cncreafe the pub
lic debt—unlcfs in the modern revolution of i
principles, war should be converted into a
blessing infUad of a curse. Would the people
®f tbe United States " vjijh for an encreaj*
tf the debt?" let them adopt the politics of
those who clamor for war—Would we di*-
Wiinifh the debt, let us if poff.Me ne ? ocmte
instead of sighting—should negociation suc
ceed, the preparation for war urged by the
friends of peace, will not amount to one
hundredth part of the expence of War with
out negociation—fhould negociation fail, we
lhall then be in a situation to meet our ene
mies on some terms of equality— at present,
who fay that we are ? '
' 11 .ii >»»■iMummmm
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 22.
Letter te a gentleman in this city, received
by this day's mail, dated New-York,
April jr.
" The £hip Ohio of this port, has arrived
at the Hook, after a passage of 43 days from
London—(he is now coming up, and (hould
lhe reach the town before the mail closes,
we wil| communicate the information that
may be received by her.
u It is said that lhe failed in company
with upwards of 300 veflels, from the chan
nel, bound to d.fferent ports in America,
under convoy of some British fliips of war."
Yesterday the following resolution pas
sed the House of Representatives of The
United States—Yeas fiftjA eight—Nays
thiity eight, viz.
WHEREAS, the injuries whieh have
been fullered and may be fuffered by the
United States, from violations committed
by Great Britain cn their neutral rights
j and commercial interelts, as well as from
I her failure to execute the seventh article
j of the treaty ol peace, render it expedient
' for the interests of the United States, that
j the commercial intercourse between the
i two countries (hould not continue to be
; carried on in the extent at present allowed:
j RESOLVED, That from and after
i the firft day of November next, all com
mercial intercourse between the citizens of
the United States, and the fubjefts of the
king of Great Britain, or the citizens or
fuHjeCts of any other nation, so far as the
fame refpedts articles of the growth or ma
nufacture of Great Britain or Ireland,
lhall be prohibited.
A committee was then appointed to
prepare and bring in a bill purluant to the
above resolution.
From the Leyden Gazette of 2 "jlh Dec.
M. C. A. M. Vattel, officer in the
Swiss Guards, has written the following
letter witli a request that the Editor would
in fen it in his paper.
"In the supplement to No. 102 of
your Gazette, in the ridiculous letter of
Genet, Minister of France in America, to
Mr. JefFerfon the Secretary of State, I
find the following sentence—" Ido not
" remember what the worm-eaten volumes
"of GrotiUs, Pujfendorf and Vaticl fay
"on this fubjeft. I thank God, I have
" forgotten what thohireling 'writers on
" junfprudence wrote on the law of na
• " tions while they were in chains." I
have a sovereign contempt for Citizen
Genet; but 1 owe it »to the memory ps
Mr. Vattel, my father, to hinder those
flat calumnies from deceiving honest peo
ple. My father, when he wrote on the
law of nations, was in the pay of nobody,
nor was he in chains, ifor he was a mem
ber of one of the Swiss Cantons (Neuf
chatel.) where the most happy freedom
reigns. As to his works being eaten by
"•oi ms, they will perhaps remain longer
than the French Republic."
)
A correspondent observes with real plea
fiire, the encreafing military disposition of
the inhabitants of this city, at this very cri
tical period, 4nd adds that it mult give fm- S
cere iatisfaiition to every friend to his country
to learn that in addition to the several volun
teer companies already established, there is a
new troop of light dragoons now organizing,
which in point of refpedlability, numbers and
equipment, will be equal to aay on the con
tinent.
_We hear that the Preiident of the United !
States has appointed Nathaniel Cabot Hig
ginfen, 1 gal cemmiffioner for the United I
States, oil a million to the Wtft-Indies to
fupermtend the entering of appeals from the
decrecs of condemnation ; to invefligate the
grounds on which they have been made and
to do other things relative to American vef- 1
fels and cargoes which have been condemned j
in the Vice Admiralty courts of the several t
Hands, and also to afford relief to our sea- ■'
men now there. j
Philad. Gazette. i
Earl Stanhope on th- 33d Jan.'in the, Bri- c
j tifn House of Lords, made a motion for ac- c
knowledging the French Republic, in the b
iouowing words: i
i hat an humble Addrsfs be presented
" to his Majesty, advising his Majeltv
to diicontinue hofhlittes, as it appear- H
" ed from an article of the French
ccinftitution, that her Government
" d.d not mean to interfere in chang- u
" Government, nor fuffer anv I v
Power to alter that which fne had 11
" *° r . med - Paying, That his Majesty, I 1
feeing the deftrudtive nature of the "
w ' a \.' an d the delusive hope held out j
of success, would order his Mini- ei
iters immediately to acknowledge th£ b
" Frsnch Republic."
Lst usdo tii!s, said his Lardfli'p ; let u'c be
jiift & honeit ( for I am not without some re
ligion ;) let us do our duty to one another;
at least, let us erfdcavour to do justice, and
leave the reft to God.
This motion was introduced with a long
speech, in which the power progress and re
sources of the French nation were exhibited
in the most animating point of view—the
motion was put and negatived.
A hint to the Managers of the New
Theatre.
Jack in Distress, having so frequently
been the iubjeft of interlude, we may with
certainty announce to the public, that in
a few nights more, (hould Jack in Distress
beperformed, they will be entertained with
the additional interlude of The -whole Play
Htufe in Dijlrefs, never before acted in
the New Theatre. <
1 ■■" —
. By this Day's MaiL
NEW-YORK, April 21.
. The ißthinftant, being Good Friday,'
in contempt of Judas the traitor, the sea
men on board a Portuguese brig, laying
at Jones's wharf, hanged his effigy to the
yard-arm, where it liung till the next day;
when, on the firing of several guns, and
much noisy vociferation, it was lowed into
tha water and soundly ducked, then tak
en up, dragged through the streets, and
beat with clubs as it pafled, to the no small
diversion of the boys and other fpedlators.
Extract of letter from Mr. Parsons, of
Grenada, to Mr. D. Smith merchant of
New-York, via New-London dated
March 22.
" Americans are not allowed to trade
with the French I (lands besieged ; but all
the Englilh are open, except for beef,
pork, &c. The Mauds, when captured,
will be open. Many Americans are con
demned, and 100 ready to be given up.
Government will make good all dama
ages. "
St. JOHNS, (Antigua) Feb. xo.
Archibald Gloleter, Esq. arrived here
this day from the island of Montferat,
where he has been for some weeks pall, ex
erting himfelfin the admiralty as advocate
to the unfortunate Americans who had
been captured and carried into that port;
but neither his eloquence, or well known
legal ability could avail.
Feb. 18. The late order for seizing all
American veflels bound to or froma French
island, was, we believe, generally difap- 1
proved of in this island ; but an order to
restore such veflels as have been already
taken, and to prevent similar captures in
future, ,ve are informed, may be houily
expected.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
CLEARED. 1
Schr. Weymouth, Stevens, New-York 1
Pink, Bell, Newburypoft
Sloop Elizabeth, Webb, CharltHon [
Hope, Hufley, Nantucket i
Sak™, Elkins, New-York c
William, Taylor, Virginia '
On Friday morning arrived here the brig c
Fair American Capt. Angus, in 21 days
ftom Antigua—he informs that all the '
American veflels at Antigua, except those
with naval stores or bound to a blockaded
port. He left at Guadoloupe the 9th
of March about i6failof American veflels.
the 9th of April in lat. 34, 58,10ng. 73 he
spoke the ship Flying Dove, Capt ,
said to be from Virginia, bound to St.
Thomas's out 4 days.
Philad. April 22, 1794.
*** Notice, agreeably to charter, is here
by given to the members of the Corporation
for the Relief of Poor and DiJlreJJid Prefby
tertan Minijlen, and of the Poor and Dif ■ 1
trfJTi-d II iaO'iUj and children of Prejbyterian
Mimjlers, that a meeting of said corporation
is to take place, on the aid day of May next,
in the second Prelbyterian chnrch in the city
of Philadelphia, at 4 o'clock P. M. for the
dispatch of all such business as may then be
brought before the board.
ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
tuth&s6t
Those persons who
undeitake to cut timber or wood of any kind
whatever, from any lands of the real estate of
the late Ruha-d S.ockton Esq. deceased, in
the wefterri prectnft of the county of Sonierfet
in the state ot New Jerfcy, under a pretence of
a right to cut o» lands adjacent, are t cqueUen to
defiflT ftom so doing, or they will be proceed
ed against m such manner as may prove trou
blesome and expenfivc 19 thcmfelvls.
April 16. *w&32\r
/ '
The two military bills before the House
of Representatives, were this day pa(Ted to
be engrofled /or a third reading to-mor
row—one rcfpefts the arming and equip
ping of 80,000 militia—the other pro
vides for railing an additional regiment of
aitillerifts and engineers. .
The amendments of the Senate to the
pod-office bill, were taken into considera
tion, some conqurred in, others disagreed
to.
On Tuesday the 29th instant
at 11 o'clock in the Forenoon, will be
fold by public vendue, at Mr. Bowen's
Exhibitibn Room, No; 9, north Eighth
street,
A COLLECTION OF
Capital Pictures,
By the.most approved French, Italian, and
Flemish Mafte.s, collrfted by a gentleman of
taste in Europe, and luptrlor to any that have
ever been offered for sale in America.
Theie Pictures maybe viewed at any titlie
previous to the day of sale at the Exhibition
Room, where catalogues may be had, and at
the Subscribers Auction Room.
LIKEWISE,
A Collection of Books,
in foreign languages, such as Ruffian, Polift,
and a few maps in the said Languages
FOOTMAN & CO. Auabver's.
April 22. tuth&stzqi
JUST PUBLISHED,
and to be sold by
THOMAS DOBSON,
No. 41, Jbnth Second Jlreet,
Extract of a letter from a gen
tleman in America to a trierid in England, 011
the Subject of Emigration—price 1 Bth of 1
dollar.
EccltfiajlicalEJlabli/bments detrimental to
a hate.
Price I • 8 of a Dollar.
Ap*il22. mw&fgw
JUST PUBLISHED,
j
I Bookjeller, at the Stone Houje in SecondJlreety
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPAEDIA,
I OR A
Diaienary of Arts, Sciences, aud Mijcel-
I laneous Literature,
I ON a plan enti, «ly new ;by which the dif
ferent sciences and arts are digested into the
I form of diftinft treaties or lyftems. This
I volume contains the articles, meda's, medi-
I cine, metallurgy, metaphvfics, methodists,
I Mexico, miciofcope, midwifry, and a g:eat
variety of biographical and miscellaneous ar-
I tides, illustrated with nineteen copperplaies.
1 (i~t Ihe rabies of logarithm*, See. which
were deficient in the tenth volume, aiefub-
I joined to this.
I Eleven volumes of this work are now pub
li/hed, and the Xllth is in fame forwardr.efs.
On the firftof September, 1792, the prfce
offubfeription was incrcafed TJLN dollars on
I all setts not taken before that time. Thefub-
I fcription isftill open on rhefe ternis, and it
any copies remain by the firft of Julv next,the
price will be railed TEN dollars more, on
I any «npies which may be fubferibed for after
that period.
*,* As many of the fubferibers have taken
only two, three or four, &c. volumes, they are
I eai neftly requeued to take up and pav for the
remaining volumes, as it becomes d il/cult to
complete thefetts, and thepubi:flier dpe» not
I hoi d himfelf bouud to make up any setts ati or
the fii ft day of July next.
April 22. m&th.6w
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
April 23.
Will be.performed,
A COMEDY, called the
j School for Scandal.
To which will be added,
A COMIC OPERA, written by the author
of the Poor Soldier, never performed here
I . called
Peeping Tom of Coventry.
Places in the Boxes to be taken at the Box-
I Office of the Theatre,at any hour from|nine,
in the morning till three o'clock in the after
noon, on the day of performance. Tickets
j to be had at the office near the Theatre, at
j the coiner of Sixth-ftreet,and at Carr & Co's
Muficalßepofitory, No. 122, Market-street
I Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarters
I of a dollar —and Gallery, half a dollar.
I * # * As inconveniences to the public have
arisen from the Box book being open on the
j days of performance only, in future attends
j ance will be giv nat the office m the Theatre ,
I every day from ten 'till one, and on the daVs
j of performance from ten till three o'clock'is
I the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, iti»
j refpe&fully requelted, may be addressed, t»
j Mr. Franklin, at the Box Office.
. 4IMPORTED
From London, Dublin, and Glasgow,
now for sale,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market facet «
A Large and Valuable I
COLLECTION of BOOKS, ;
Among which are the following:
Annual flatter for 1792
European' Magazine tor the firft fix
> W hs of 1793.
Gfmisin tfecline and fafi of Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Minchefter focicty, 3 vols.
FneftW mi iwmti 9W fpftt
on chriftwmity
Difnfiy's !;le of Dr. Joftjn
anient geography
Meni"tr< of Guy jolt
cotte&ioil ofeffjys
King of Pj-tiifivts
Caim observer—by Mackintosh
Rh {fell's ancient and modern Europe
L* i-gUo ne's Pmtaich
Elegant extra&s, "ups rbljr gilt
, «.*t exti-i&s * sna ! oral hillory
and BrilToii's voyage
ftoc&jh's voyage iVladagalfcar
"TVnvifend.'s gravels in-Spain
Talk's Jerusalem deliverer!
Siiieii e'» trauijiation ps Buflfon
Ber wick*'; "hiiioi y of quadrupeds
'ButFiiti abridged
HUtory of b.vds
Pluiipv's history of inlind navigation
IXooper's rational recreations
fcftory of France, in 3 voh.
Curi*fities of literature, 3 vols.
Whir defence of queen Mary
§!ierida:»'s dfidVtonary, 2 v ols.
Dow's hisfy»ry H.mdoftan
Sketches bf the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay'tj idt f rrtj>tio!» of-K«ntucky
Present fyAte i»f Mova-Scotia ,
Frelent Itate of Hudson's Bay
Preffon on maiohry m
Lavater on physio ;nomy, abridged
i\it me r f fta 1 \*'s Ai rvcy
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnfofl
Neckjer on executive power
Kftfes of'Secundus
GaUcry of portraits
Volney's Yuin4 as empires
— —t Travels • ' ;
Va4la-w»t's-fcr*v*U, with iuperu engjaying*
Downaiaii's infancy
Ada«r'i A'yerican Fmlians
B on lalifm aiid immatertahfm,
BerchoW's advice to patriotic travelers
JBttilder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life' f Voltaire
De Non's travels
Fr;n kjin's life and works
G< ozier'sdefcription of China
ohy's translation oi Tacitus
"Godwin on political j-nlltaffe
Gazetteer of.Prance, 3 vo^*
-Keiv etius on man
KjTunes's (ketches of the bjftory ot man
literal opthioira, or Mv? loftory ot beuignus
Mawe's jrardeuer's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Pljiyhmife dj&ionary.
Reveries of folithde
S n'tfhfa theory of'moral Sentiments
S-.aekhoufe'i hiftoiy of the bible
\Vatfan\s life of Philip IX<V- & M^.
Wonders of rat lire and art, 6 vol?.
Wfanlev's wonders of the little world, callec»
man
\?ajl 3 on Hie prevention oi diseases
;Mo>.e's j'uuroaMn France
-Gox's fiaveisiintoDenmark, |luffia,Polaqd | uc^
Ci)x's 1 ravels into Switzerland
Rabant's biflttry of the French revolution
B'fe- of Loi<i Cftatftfafn
Ma3Jet's northern a»tioui-fcips
Motherby's mtdical dictionary
GfigS's advice to feinalbs _ * . ,
Hamiilttm's outlines of the of mid
wifery
Manning's of
Clef horms diseases of Mi no re*
Innes on the mufcies
Pott's works
Pourerigri's chemistry
.Jkrmftrong on diseases. of children
Qi lincy's il'fpenfatory
Ed inbipg l l V ;fpe n fV. toiy
Lewises ailpenfatory
Ryan on the aftlmia
Robertftm's treatrfc oa fevers
botany,
Leake 011 tl\e vifceVa
Leake on <k#afes of women
Nicholfon-schemiilry -
on the animal economy
Lewis's Matejia* MeSica
Fovdyce
Witheror. the fox glove
Lind tM rliteales of*
Monro of araw«i
Hiller's physiology
SpaJanzawe'i rlations
London practice of phjrfiit
y
CJiapta'N A
EMENi".
OF the irnqeyTOisiiej from tbc inai! near
Baltimore, iir Gaist, !t jdolT*!-! »er«
aftera arrfi fetit few matoowiJ hand, to die
Piftm after st Bjlomoie, wi» ; raofrai iMtd
the fame to tte G.-neral f'cfi OKce. Xte /uf
ferer< bf tint toUiery atr e,t&red to G«te ate
a men at of their eeijkeriiimeiy, ami traof
• m» tne-itn -, »itrt the teroo i s of sieir
corrtip«Mleatt j'srtne tt ,otl*r
; e*»dki»ce tte««f t» Scmerak Post Olficc,
Jwewt, uune<'Hte
ft;a£er. aditriiejaS wi3 he ottAeasnoog
.'the caimiz>'.<-
:Z-. 2CZE2JMC,
Affi S&Jkr&ierrtl.
Gro-. rod Ofer r iptti 4ft ?84' aia i
T A 1
Treasury Department,
Hevensn Ojftce, Jpril iCtb, 1794- *
Communications by post or j
otxiertrjfe. wiil be received by vvgy of inior
n><ttoo -at the Office of the Commifiioncr of
thtßeveaue from perfoiis willing to fypply »ton.
Ciui«oo, Cannon Bell, and Shelly for ihe for
tifications *nd Ships of War. The fitnef*
the metal for caonoo, and ihs capacity of the
founder* in fmelrmg, in. preparing and imx
*ns the jiietal, and m calling au<i horing the
cannon (which are to be cast foiidly) will re
quire to be. par ipularly dated.
Simitar coninju*icaiioj.s willMfo be receiv
ed from any fperfoiis willing. 19 fapply l| vC
oak. and red cedar timber jor the conftru<siion
of ihcfliipsof wa». plans of pro
curing and fkpplying the Panic ni-y be pj;opof
ed. The convenience of the fiiajion in re
gat dto navigation, and the ftatc oi the timber
whether already fallen or hereafter to be cut,
will iequirctobe noticed.
All the neceflary particulars in regard to
the several articles which are wanted, will be
fpecifjed in contra<f\s|intended to be grounded
impart on the information, which is hereby
fought.
April 17. tutty*<ew.
ADVERTISEMENT.
SJLES tit NEW-YORK, by A.L.
BLEECKER & SONS,
On Thursday the 15 th May nejtt at "TVelve
o'clock at the Tontine Coffee House,
THE FOLLOWING
T'raßs of Land,
In Watkin* and Flint's purehafe, in thecoun
fty of Tioga, state of New York.
The QBtal fining acres
South Weft quar. of Townfli'p No. 2, 9,424
North weft do* do. 4, 5^47
do, do. 6, 10,525
Southwest do. do. 7> 9 oOD
Southwest do do. 8, 3*95° »
Northweit do. do. &, 6,2 5°
Sf»utheaft do. do. 9> 6,250
Southeast do, do. 9,'dbo
Northwest do. do. 10, ■
Thefelands aire rapidly encreafuig in valut,
large settlements are a'heady made in several
of the townfliipsj- the goodnels of foil-,- and
the advantages io point of situation being To
well kniiwr, render any father deft nation
unneceflat }. Amppf the tra&s and condi
tinrti'of fait may be seen at No. io, Queen
iftieet, New-York.
16- t«>th&M:i4M
(NO, 60)
DifitiQ of Pennsylvania, to Wit:
Be it remembered that
on the twelfth day of in the eighteenth
year of .the Independence of the Omrcd Slates
of America, Bet.jamin D.» vies of the faiddil
trift hath deputed in this office the title ot a
map, the rigtotjwhereof he claims as 'propri-
in the words following, to wit ; ;
u A Ground Plan of the City and Sub
" urbs of.Philadelphia, Ujtfn from actual
8 survey; containing an'exaft defcripf jqii
" of dll the fquaves, and alleys in
" the City and Liberties ; of the si Hi at ion
iL os-all ihe pit freHmiWrngs ;of
u the rivulets, and as much of, thejCanal
* at lies within the com pad of the draft,
" by H. P. Folip : pubhihed by the Propri
" etor, Reijamin Da vies."
In conformity to the aA of the Congrefs'of
the Uiiited States, entitled an for the en
couragement of secy ring the.cp
p»es of in*ps, charts and books to
and proprietors of such copies, duii/ig the
times tlierein irtcnt ot>ed.
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Q 'rkof the Diltrittof ,Penofylv»nja. I
Si. Domingo Sufferers.
THOSE pe'fivus who undei toot to cnliea
the fufarcription made/in- the relief ol' the a
buve UDio tuoate perfonsj are ruquelled to
complete thsirreturin, where the, have, not
already done it, aiid to deliver thetanw with,
any balance <!hey may hold, into the fund-, of
the Xrofurer, who will deceive any fflb.'crip
tioawhict!remains uiicollefted, or any frelh
donitiou. Itris hoped jnlianC attention wjll:
b'i paid to thib notice, t veoahle the conimK
tee ofdiflriiution t j cK'k. fhelr accounts and
give further relict" to a number of those per
f»ns flill remaining here, whose Ctu2tJon is
tnriy aiftreiHng.
iiyordor (ft' the roinrnkfe of diflributiin
Robert Smifh, Trsa/urer.
P. S. It iSreriuefted the different Printers
•will'tbr a f?w d»>s pnhlilh the abOTe.
Samuel CoatesT"
At in Store, No. 82, south FfmtJlrect,
HATH FOR RALE,
|P 94 Betrrcit
New England Beef,
£-9 barrel* liver ml^
35 barreU Cnlcr,
.boxes iVf Candle*,
pan of tnen : s leather flaocs
Barley
A quantity of Tow Ltnea
Ditto, of Kc Soal i either
4c
4b»KCMt)f
■qOdo wt. ,ot AJfpicc
to c* fee «if tbe zZoJiaad g ui.
Afjii a- *oodiw i
.
pwsrsipEi^-i
. i * •> .-•- :'''■>.: .■ -••
i 'ft.
Concluding Sales.
THE Subfcribcr having entered lata Co
partnership with' Mr. Jcim Birtliotnmrw i n
the buiiiWs of Sugar Refining; wis) dtfpofe
of the
Rema'uung Siaclt on hand
consisting <>r
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By Wbolefale at Prime Cost for Ciijh.
John Doriey,
No. s2, North 3^
April 12- tuth&'tw
Henry Rape _ State of Maryland.
• v. J High Court, of Chancery,
3enjaminGaithei V March jtfc. 1^94.
and S
Bad Caither
The Complainant states
in his bill that the defendants Bf'njaftlio Gai
ther and Basil Gairher »vere fcized in fee a 4
tenants in common nl' a trai% of t»>id hi pre.
dm ick County, called Hammond's Strifi *—
that being To foiled, Eafil cxecutcd a paver
of attorney to Benjamin authorising hiit to
fall his, the laid Batil's interefl in tlje fa il
land, that aftei wards the taid f-'cirjamiir fold
the laid land toa certain William Gaulicr tor
the consideration of fix hnnjdred |)<.u"dt»tiich
hath been fnice paid, that the (;ii<t William
hath atfigned to the Com'pfaiiioiitljenry Rare
the bond execuud Lv ilic (aid Co for
the Conveyance or t «t said iarc : Tfc* Cow- I
plainant now further itatps (a"d fa appeal*
to the Chancellor} tl.at i,hc- di.lieii(ijMil» are
non-residents of the itate of. Jtlaryl
herefore out of the reach of the procefj of
this coot t.
It is therefore adjudged and ordered, ti>»t
the Complainant procure a copy of tbit or
dei to be inserted in toe newfpapei of Angell
and Sul ivan, and in the United State {J,.j4,tie
at lealt three weeks fticteffively, l«-ior( ihe
twentieth day .of May next ;u> tie intent
that the Defendants and all otliers, u ho nuv
conceive them'elves tnterefled in the (ntiiiif
es, may have notice t» appear in t|>i> tfruit,
on or before the thiid Tocfday'm fceptcmbrt
next, tofhew cauie twi< iciorc adecrcc ftiouid
not pal'sfor vcftingin the CoDU'latiiiior tc tji.
plete legal title.to the land ifctxfaid.
Test,
SAMUEL HARVEV HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. Coo.
March 18 tui'h&ajw
Just Imported,
Inthejinp Abigail, Captain Hsrtm, frem &t
Petirjiurgh in Riijia, and ufw ianMag at
Ruffi'H'j wbarfy
HEMP," Mm
HAR IRON', "
IU'SSIA SHhETIN'GS,
RAVINS UUCK,
RUSSIA DICK,
And !o; fdle at the Hurts of the fubfc&rt io
Wa.aat iireet, Nr>. 22.
John Donnaldfon.
April 4. (ijw
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSC*J£fR,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
•firj' rior quality in pip-i, imported <l> tbc ft?
Wilnington.
OLD aHERRY WINE of tl* Cf fl quality
-in quarter caiks, imp u ted in tie bf ig Natty
capt. Gwiu. fr, m Cadis-
SHELLED ALMOINDS and a £evf kets of
-RAISINS, imparted in dltio# T
particular TEVERirFII iViVE*, ; »fi|V.i
hhds. pnd quar er caiV.s, time fl»f
Tiioma% capt. Skinner.
A fi-w q«»'ter cafc .of okl partkli'jr b;!!
of exthange MADEIRA WJ.VF..
GcQ):g£ Meade,
Who has alfi"), fnfl arrived and fut
A SMALL CAftCO (OF
Lijbon Salt-
A quantity of empty BAGS {•jr^Ag.
April j. irtpnat;
Pennfjlvajtiia
<(th iloitti', sft
The Contributois are ddsred
to attend the Jo tee t>e2,d »t ilfc
Hosnt al on• Ihe 51! i day of th?
next,at .3 o'clock io the afternoon; Iwilfofrfe
twelve Miinwslrj and a tw
the e»luing yrar
fiy older »if a board of M.an?^er^
Samuel Qwxt?s, dirk.
TO BE SOLD.
A large elegant Hoofcj
aiul Lot of Groan*!,
IN an eligii>lefituation,—alto a Uoui*r«&*g
within 6milr!of the City, wtiHfipj&flbt-if
land, or 42 acres of land and ttite
1 House is not exceeded bwjan.y in tthe (w&wtojr
of the city, in. ttz.', or converuei.'Ce..
I For parcffculai s apply to tbe pn-nfef-
January 23 jaACii—
—
PHILADELPHIA
Fainted *BY JOHN FENNOj lie it
; fk.itL Fou.tli-Stx.ect. .
K