-
evening advertiser.
[No. 119 of Vol. V.}
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No- »»•
, Mai ket-Street,
An TJfay on Slavery,
. fifefigntd'to exhibit m a jo.m
its rffetls on mord/i, indujiry, and f J
Zw S.w f«a. •«> clcolat.on. .re ofcred
to prove the labor of/>■«*#» <° bc much mDr
£££-«.i™ .h« of co Z7»VZ
Yich, pSl'eJr,,! and happy, in prop. .. on «s the
laboring people enjoy .he frait. of their own
labor ; and hencr the n c ffa.v eoncluftcm, thai
slavery ti impolitic as wt}H >*■#•}&■
Price 25 Cents. dtr
February 1.5.
The following Certifi
„e of the f««ded thr« per Cert'S.ocfc tf
Join. ftie D'M °* 'he V"««t <**««&•»
he books of the Ttofury of tl ?e Olid United
>utrs,, in the names ot Donn»ldand rto fJl;
Loudon, mcicttants, »nd 'ftgwed >y jolrpti
Nourfe, RcjiftCT-of f»id TrfrrtwyV wU : ~*~
(j.j, 4476, d«te4 .24'h Auftijft J^9i for J&59
doU&» »»wL«J.e«nU ««• &«W*
don in the (flip Petet, Paul PlulTey, piafte',
borttid fw Nr« Y<n*?; *n<J h»« <^ rP "
'o*** lfoa
4wr *f dNf »»» <** J w "
uivr*, «Jw W '»^' ( !5 d "
rt»rfn3 eeKtScfcf, «» make their pfcjearo««
thereto, if any they b" • • '
•V ' Francis Maty.
Philad. March 27.
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglbcads and in cafcs of 50 boiilcs each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA, •
In pipes, hoglbcads and f|uartcr calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUCHAN,
1 No. in, South Front ltrcei.
J»n. 1794. dlf
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, From
St. Peterlburg in Russia,
Ami now ianding- at South-ftrett Wharfj viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG'i BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-street.
March 4,1794- d 1 w.-jtawt
c The Ground Plan
OF THE
City and Suburbs
OF
PHILADELPHIA.
KF.N FROM ACTUAL SO-RPRT*
IT H witYi pleafureihat the pnblHher has to
inform liisfubfcnber*-art<Hhe public in gene
ral,. that the plate .s np\y she hands ot
the engraver, and in greater forwai duefs than
was at si ll contemplated. At thi fame time
be begs leave to r< mind thenr, th t fubfcrip
t»or» papers arefttll open at most of the noted
book-store* in the city and that he hopes
from the whole of them to bt enabled to form
such a refpeftable caiatogue of names, as will
do a credit to the work, as well £s afford a
reasonable encouragement to the undertdke-r
IMfc who are delirous of further infonna. |
tioo are requeued to call on
Benjamin Davies y
No- 68, lyiarket (tteet.
April J4-_ m&thtf ,
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCR I BF.R,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
fopcrior quality in pipt&? imported in the Ihip
W»l uinfcton.
OLD SHERRY WINE of the £rft quality
in quarter cafk.%. imported in the brig Na-rtcy
capt. Gwin. fr m Cadiz.
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RAISINS, imported io. dJtio.
Particular TENERIFFE WINES,in pipes
l.rtds. and quarter casks, imported in the fliip
Thomas, capt. Skinner.
A few quarter calk- of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who has alio, jtift arrived and for sale
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lijbon Salt.
Aqnantity of empty BAGS for sale.
Ap.- w&stm.
»'is- r."
-iffi'V» \ ivt V ;
». »Vi
P.bi «,
'1 ' AN D . ;
To be Let,
For Merchants Conipting Haufcs or Public
Offices, . ,
Two brick 3 story Houses,
HAVING 6!oom> in each, wi h fireplaces
belide garrets, [iiuate. on the foulh wrfterlv UJe
of Dock street, between Pear and Walrfut
streets. Enquire of
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
tuth&stf
April
just Imported,
In the Ship ApollQ, Capt. FitzpatriclC,
from Amllerdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Duct,
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
"Juniper Berries, •
Glufs IVare, -viz. Tumblers arut Mags, ■va
rious jizss.
Sheathing Paper,
THOMAS KETLAND, Jan.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
fhouldapplication be made within a few days ;
otherivfc Jhe will take freight for Amjlei
dam.
d6w
March r, 1794. J—tf
The Profits arifmgfrom the folhnving publi
cation are for the benefit of the Poor.
Just publrfhed, printed by R- Aitkeri and
Son, and fold by J- Crukfhank, W.Young
T. Dobfon, and the other Booksellers,
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed oil t»e 14th. September ! 793 by
'the Citizens of Philadelphia, the Northern
Libe ries, and the Diftrift of Southwark,
to attend to and alleviate the fufferings of
the affliftei! with the Malignant F<?ver,pre
valent, in the City and it* vicinity.
iiITH AN APPENDIX?
CONTAINING
A lift of psrfons adm tted into the Hospi
tal at fiuih hill, fliewing the times of their
admiflim, death and difchargc.
Number of Houses, Deaths, &c. in the
streets, alleys, and courts in the
c ty oi Philadelplyia, Northern and
Diftrift of Southwark.
A flit of the Interments in the Burial.
1 p'Onnds in the city of Philadelphia, NottHern
Liberties, and Diftrift of Southwark, with a
meteorofogical account of the weather.
A summary of donacivns in cash and provi
sion , received froirl sundry persons and pla
ces,' for the us; of the poor and afflicted.
April i. djw
.r. tr
The. new £aik-lkiling, copper
(nvmfib[ bottomed SHIP >
f§gg, ADRIANA, ■
rin 1 " K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of livi oak arid cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight orpafTage,
having excellent accommodates, apply on
board at Walnut ftreetwhu •' '
aat Walnn: 111 .... rf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B.'Paflengers will be landed in Enj
land if required.
March 6, 1794 dtf
For Norfolk & Fredericksburgl
'saely
John Earl, Mailer.
A staunch good veflel, will fail in a feu
day 3. For freight or p fl"ap.e, apply to. the
mailer on board at Chcfnut llreet wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONT SON.
March 31. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
ANDROMACHE.
(An American bottom )
IS a itout good veflel, about two years old,
burthen 232 tons, has only made three voy
ages, and may be Tent to iea at a finall ex
pence. She may be l'een at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
WRAkrON CS 1 LEWIS.
Mareh 2t. dtf
Thursday, May 1, 1794*
Siuedet Iron, IjOTfy .■■ ?,
. t .. ;......... ,
Dutch Greet . ' '
A ="*• 1
• '' *&«.' S4LJ W"*' " " !
MINUTES
For Amsterdam,
For the Gazette of the United States'
M*. Fenno,
The following article, lately appeared in
a Baltimore paper—it contains obfer
valions pertinent to the present poiture
of affairs in the United States. Ob
servations which in my opiniou, are
more worthy of attention, than the
contents of a. thouUnd columns of Eu
ropean intelligence—we reprobate trans
atlantic connections, politics and man
ners in appearance—but what is the
fact ? If we could receive an uninter
rupted supply of European Newspa
pers, it may be doubted whether it
would appear from the American pvb
lications, that the people of the Unit
ed States, exiftcd as a nation ; or had
a government, or any independent in
terests of its own. C.
from the Maryland Journal
Tj|TE (hall take the conversation of to»day
VV froth the work of a celebrated modern
autrtar, varying only in a few particulars from
the original.
The young Lyjis had li-ftened to the declama
tions of the fophiits against public meafurcs and
the raoft virtuous members of the Republic, tijl
he conceivcd himfelf qualified to manage its af
fairs.
My son, said Apollodore, I learn that you burn
with a desire to reform the laws and change the
adminiftratiou. I wifli n, replied Lyiis, he&a
tingly. It is a beautiful projeil, said his father,
to give to the republic better laws than it enjoys
at pcefent,. and more virtuous men to conduct
its affairs than those who have served it with to
much celebrity in its molt disastrous periods,
and so much prudence and wisdom fmce being
veiled with Civil authorities. If it succeeds yeu
will be enabled to be ufeful to yout relations, to
your friends and to your country. The Repub-'
lie will no longer confiderSo/an as the wisest. ie
gifldtor, noi Arijlides as the juiteft citizen.
At these words theyoung roan trembled with
joy. To accomplith that ooji 61, continued A
poilodore, will it not be nectary to carry i»to
the General Assembly a great variety ot infor
mation, and to have rendered eminent services
to the republic, in order to obtain ibe confrdt nee
of the people ? Without doubt, said Lyfx\ What
services then, replied his fatter, have you ever
rendered the people, that they fhouJd withdraw
their confidence from those wbo nave served it,-
to repose it in you, who have not ?■ Lyfir was si
lent to prepare au anlwer. After waiting .tonic
moments his father continued, you do noi raqk
among your ufeful information, wtiat you have
collected trom the declamations ot the fophilfs,
nor the facility with wnich you can repeat tin i
infiriuat-ions. If you believe whit ther fay,, you;
must be in pafleflion ot the proofs upon whiqh
they fu port it. Lysis seemed disconcerted he
had never heard of the pfoofs. But waving this
point, said Apollodor*?, if the matter was t© piV
mote the welfare of a mercantile houle,
would fir ft think how you could fupflifh it Wjth
a capital, and establish its credit : In like, man
ner, you would think of serving the state by Tn
creafingits wealth, ana establi sh ng its credit,
such is my idea, said Lysis. Tell me then the
amount ot the revenue of the repnblic ; upon
what obje&s this jevenue is raised ; whether it
fervesto encourage ifiduftry ; whether some oh
: jefls are not too highly MXt'd {Whether diners:
might not be rendered more productive ; or
whciher ir would not be to the advantage of the|
repub'ic to derive the whole revenue from othej
•ol»j*6b than those which at present produte it ?
-You have no doubt* fully considered thefepoirits.
No, my father, I have never thought of them,
Thcfe things have not occupied the
You know at lead o pnrpofesthe revenue
is£J>plied, and certainly your intentiqn is tci
dimmish alt Improper expenditores. I canrtoj
i fay that I have clearer $deas upon this acticlet
The sophists tell )ou, said Apollodore, that the
public debt consumes a. great part of the revenue
1 and think- that those tef'whom the Republic gavs
its bond% ought to hrfve received the money due
upon them, and not the persons to whom they
have been aftigrjed. You uuderftand tfiis pit*
tin&ion no doubt. Clearly said Lysis. Yoti
can resolve me the pubiic would
have been less taxed by paying the one in-pre
ference to the oth<_r. Lysis was again silent.
Since, Lysis, jyou know so little concerning
the receipts or el penfes of government, Jet us
renourtce, for tjhe the d'efigtl of procu
ringnew wealth to ttle rtptiblic by entreating
th« one 01 dMniniOiing the othel. But, my-fa
thei t woujd it not be possible to cnci*afe thfc
Wealth of t'le rcpul'lic by going to war ? That
would depend on the advantages gairted over
the enemy/, and the richriefs ot the countries
> you niighu conquer compared with the wealth
which thic republic must expend in
" t'hefe s ; hot to obtain them, and be
j fore detf Vinininc on War, is it' not neceiTaty t<j
? calculate the force which you can employ a -
epemy, afcertaia the fo«cp which
he caf.i oppofc to yours.
; ; 4 ' -'' j
fafe
<■
[Whole No. 515.5
Ycuare sight, said Lysis. Tell me then what
is the state of our army and marine, whether ic
ought to be increased, and how in time of war
the money is t* be raised to maintain it. You
will inform me also of the troops and vejels of the
enemy. I cannot recipe to you the whoJe at
once, faidLyiis. Perhabs you have it in writing,
I ftouM be vefy glad to fee it. No I have not.
I presume then that you have not yet
time to apply you! fell to Inch calculations had
the fit uaiion of our frontiers has without doubt
attra&t d your attention : you know the number
of foldieis we maintain in the different posts;
You know also that certain points arc not fuffi
ciently defended, and that there are others afe
folutcly without defence ; you will of confe
rence urge in the General Aflembly the necef
«ty to augment this garrison and reform that,
replied Lysis, I (hall fay that the whoie
ought to be disbanded ; they have not difchar-
their duty. And how are you fare that our
defifes arc badly guarded ? Have you been
upon the ground ? No, but I conjecture it. Ic
is propei then to re-consider this matter, and in
place of conjctture to have certainty.
You have heard that the commerce of the Re
public by the pillars of Hercules, is gteatly in
terrupted by pirates. Do you think that the
ft»te ought to fit out some gallies to protefl it in
thole few? I think, said that it will be
much better to refirain it. But as the republic
lias no gold and silver mine* to refori to,—.
you are aware that the only legal way in which
it can obtain money to supply its wants or pro
mote internal mduilry is by trade ; In these mo*
dern times the power and prosperity of a ftaie
depenas greatlyon its wealth, and that wealth
uporiitt commerce. If you rcttrift the latter
you unavoidably leflen the former.
Alas ! my father, one would never be a politi
cian if it is necessary to attend to all these details.
1$ there a head of * house, replied Apollodore,
who does not watch inceflantly over the wants
of his family and the means to fupplythem ? Byt
if all these frighten you, fup'pofe in place of un
dertaking the care of BtfD,ooo families (the a
mount of those of the Republic), you were to try
whether you can put in order your uncle's, house,
whole affairs you know are in very bad condi
tion. I could bring it about immediately if m y
uncle would follow my advice. And can you
sincerely believe, Lyfi , that all the Athenians t
your uncle included, would be more easy to be
persuaded ? Beware, beware my son, left a vain
love of being distinguished by the capricious
multitude fl-oujd make you gather Jhame instead
of laurels. Are you not conscious how impru
dent and dangerous it would be to undertake tbe
great interests of a state without undc rftanding
them ; and how mueh you would have been ri
diculed had any other oerfon but a fa' her been a
witness .0 your folly ? Numerous examples will
teach ycru, that io offices the most injpoj d ijt,
admiration and efleem are the fiuit of knowledge arid
wi/dfim, blame and contcmpt of ignorance and pre
emption. ,
Lysis took leave of his father, and rejoined the
declaimers, who excited the multiude to difor*
and difQbedience, the fliortcft road tqpo
pularity and aJhare in the adrninijlrahon.
1 fhutahook vyh'ch I, never open without re
ceKrhg inftfu&jota, to feik amusement in tjie
convf rfa:K>n of my fellow-citizens. I listened,
and he*rdtn all companies, complaints on tVie
depredations on our trade, by the fubje&s of
powers who woyld have the United $tafa to con
fiderthem as Jriendh-, but among iht various
modes of Felief, which were eiery whece fi|g
gefted, none of them seemed to me capable of
oi>taining^ij/2*cror affording prQlcttion. *
The: prcfcot is rartainlv a critical moment to
thiscpuntry, and the afpqfl aflvmed by Qrcat
llritain well calculated to lead to hostilities.
Admitting, hoWever*, the Spoliations of her ft*b
: je&s to have been authorised by 'heir coart, still
by prudence* and£rwK(/i, and solid, preparations,
we may compel and a«ert wa< ? b>ut
to procure the one and prevent the other,, it v_ill
be absolutely necessary to combine and employ
thfrwholeefficacy of these several agents. Our
tyi'l leatj us pot to a(k too much ; our
fiimnefs not to relax from what is right ;afid
Qur preparations to enforce our demands.
The general is no dpybt cpnne&ed
with the preservation of peace ; nothing there
fore, fhduld be which may coWdice
to Hw end ; nor any thing attempted which
might rashly disturb it ; but a$ fubftanti-al pre
parations to repel hoftiliiies and obtain juflice,
have always becrf found one of tho rpoft eitefiu
al means which a nation can employ tb
war, it becomes therefore the general intertft,
that provisional military preparations ftiould be
entered into with a spirit and Vigour propor
tioned to the cafe.
But in filch a situation of things,, may we not
fafely Vejpdfc jri the tneafures which
may adopt, and upon the wiCdom .of our exe
cutive, to tfrpnf
latod to -avert the storm, or direst it against jhofe
on whom it ought to lall. In the mean while
are W-e Aot fctiund citizens, to conrfuft
ogrfelve* ifjjdiyiiduilly, according to .the firift
rules of nftfrfllttjli UH fab tiW* a?
declare us no longer at peace ; for unless
haviour of corr'efprihd s w'ifH Vha't of
government, all attempts ot the latter ro pre
vent war must become abortive. ; V. U'
£aliimy <t Mfrfh 14, 1794- f -*
'■' • . vv. '>';q -•** >> > jV-.v*
4 ■&.
/
£ /
/
ft*
For the Gazette of the United $tjtss-
Mr. Fenno,
As the reasoning in the House of Repre
sentatives against. Mr. Clark's motion
for prohibiting British commerce has
not appeared in the public papers, you
_ are requested to give a place in your
paper to the following, which con
( tains the fubflance of Mr. Dexter's
arguments against it:
Mr. Dexter introduced his observations
by remarking that he had never risen with
' so great reluctance on any former occasi
on. At so late an hour when patience
seemed exhausted, when reasoning had
given place to inventive, when to oppose
• the relolution was but soliciting reproach
es, when the friends of it, confident of a
majority, were from all fides of the House
impatiently calling for the question, when
the mover of it heard arguments against it
only that he might treat them with con-
tempt, and their authors with insult, he
said it was in vain to a(k for an attentive
hearing. He should not have risen but
for a remark jufl fallen from a gentleman
from New-Jersey (Mr. Dayton) which had
forbidden him to be silent. That gentle
man, said Mr. Dexter, has told us that
the present measure is a flepping-ftone to
fequeflration of British debts. Viewing
it therefore as the beginning of a fyflem
of holtility, which is to be so conducted
as to facrifice not only our interefl and
peace, but our national honor, the duty
to refill it becomes indispensable. Whate
ver may be thought of making laws to an
nihilate the ties of honor and personal con
fidence, and to diflolve the moral obliga
tion of contrasts Whatever may be
thought of the modern usage of nations,
which probably fromgeneralconfenthasbe
come a law, which cannot now be violat
ed without perfidy—whatever may be
thought of the odium it irfight bring on
our national character, and the complete
definition to our credit at a moment
when we shall probably need the utmost
extent of it; we have not taken those pre
vious fleps for pacific
which the cuflom of nations and all wri
ters of authority hold to be firfl in order
and indispensable. We have not made
that demand for a recompence, which
onght to precede eveiy species of reprisal.
—After the observations fir, which I made
in the beginning of the debate, it will not
-be thought strange that I fuffer on the
present occasion an unusual conflict of rea-
foning and of feeling. 1 then stated with
the franknefs which 1 felt, and with the
zeal which the hazardous crilis of our
country infpircd, the reasons and pafiions
which kept my mind in a state of vibra
tion. Struggling with indignation at the
injustice and folly of Britain, I said we
have fuffered until confidence is folly—un
til patience is a crime. Believing that
■ the resolution invoked a principle, which
might be ufeful both for obtaining jullice
and preserving peace; but that the pre
sent shape rendered it not only useless but
injurious ; believing too that it is impro
per for this branch of our government to
begin a negociation with a foreign nation
and preremptorily di&ate the terms of it, 1
, proposed an amendment, which left the
principle in all its force, and avoided some
of the obje&ions. We have heretofore
heard much of a spirit of accommodation;
but the friends of this resolution have not
discovered it. After wearying themselves
in hunting for a reason againlt the amend
mant, it was negatived without any. They
will agree with ua, but it must be precise
ly on their own terms. This is the lan
guage of accommodation—hear and be
lieve whatever we teach—(loop down and
bear whatever we impose. Vi&ory is in
our own power—a triumph is better than
pease. If fir, it be connected with dif
' cord and public calamity, the laurel is too
withered to excitc my envy.—lf amid the
fire which rages, we have not forgotten
the cause which produced it, we must re
member that the condemnations of our
veflels in the Weft-Indies in consequence
of the orders of the Britiih government of
the sixth of November, are the great and
immediate cause of complaint. Have we
fir demanded a recompence for this injury,
and, waited a reasonable time for an an
swer? So far is this from fa&, that we
have not taken one Hep towards this, nor
have we even heard from Britain since it
was known there that any condemnations
Fiave taken place. ' ->6 ? u r
Our last dispatches si om our miniftcr at
London tell-to,' tWt de
cided that he presumed no condemnations
would take jf>!ace ig consequence of those
orders—The words themielves certainly
do not juftify any.
Have we any right to fay that a de
mand of recompcnce would be fruitlefs,
when the injuries we complain of, are thiis
exprefly dilavowed by the minister ? Did
we know that a demand would be fruitlefs,
Hill we ought to make it in conformity
to the usage of nations, from a decent re
fpeft to their-opinion, and to convince
them in cafe of a war that our enemies
are altogether the aggressors, and that we
have been just and circumipeft. We ,are
judging in our own cauie, and we ought
not to trust ourselves to deviate frotji es
tablished principles, left prejudice should
mislead us. Bnt it is said, that we have
negociated in vain, refpetting the breach
es of the treaty of peace, and that the
delays here, are fufficient to juftify imme
diate war. Do we not know fir, that
there are two fides to that negociation ?
Have not they made demands on us for
breaches of the fame treaty ? The nego
ciation is (till pending in the ordinary
train. We have never given them our
ultimatum on the fubjedts of it. It is
now under the diredlion o'f the Execu
tive, which is the constitutional authori
ty. It is not proper for us to assume to
put an end to it by an ast of legislation.
Who, fir, that calls himfelf an Ameri
can, would dare to pursue a measure
which may tarnilh our national honor ?
If any one would take even a doubtful
step, " Shame ought to burn his cheek
"to cinder." To prevent, being misun
derstood or mifreprefeiited, perhaps I
ought to fay here, that I by no means
deny our right to regulate or prohibit A
merican commerce. I only mean that if
the present controversy should end in wai",
we cannot juftify engaging in it without
firft demanding justice, and if we make
this demand with circumltances which
forbid success, we do not comply with
the spirit of this role, but evade it. Ta
king the measure now proposed, would
forbid Britain to treat with us on the fub
jedt. We know that We should refufe in
similar circumstances. Are we more
proud than Britain ? Did any nation ever
begin negociation with threats ? The ex
ternal forms of regard on such occasions
are so excessive, that nothing but custom
prevents this appearing ridiculous. Hu
manity as well as usage requires .that every
peaceful method should be tried, and that
too in the form best calculated tobe fuc
cefsful. Faithfulnefs to our conftitu&nts,
requires this. Their interest and their
wishes are against courting war. But fir,
we are told that negociation is pusillani
mous. Passion is called American feel
ing. We hear much about energy, and
some seem to think that the occasion calls
for infuit. Sir, noise and declamation,
are very diftindt from fortitude and pa
triotism. 1 The bravest men do not bluster
and threaten. Why should it be thought
too tame a measure to state the injury, and
with manly firmnefs demand a teco/n
---pence ? The pride, the petulance of
Kings, has ways submitted to this, bjit
L ■ ; ' 'of a Republic forbids it.
More proud than Kings—more insolent
yrants -we despise this law of hu
-1 a " ct ipadt of mankind
here it the i ipot, the ermincd mon
ft r, who dare, to spread desolation and
, havoc, without d- landing firft his right ?
And where fir, is the difference between
not demanding at all, and demanding
such a way as to insure a refufal K - !
How much inllice there- is in the charge
of pul imity, .trhich )as been so often
and liberally us. ; I will not undertake
to determine lieri,:-ips he who purfties
with decent firmne ~ the ii p S) which pro,'
pnety, humanity atidgem lconfeiuhave
provided, and whil.'.he feels the strongest
indignation, is too psotid to throw dirt or
threaten, but places? himfelf in the best
posture of defence, left war fliould fol
low unfuccefsful negtic ion, is as truly
magnanimous, as he v*h;> ta ii„ i oud)y
revenge 1 , avows p. Was his principle, 1
calls hard names to pro.iuet corfciliation
and gives blows to keep p«ace, who at the
fame time does ever tin','. • to p.ovoke
war, arid opposes eve su re to Dre
pareTor it. Left tW difficulties of tbo
present crisis, and the attach on the pt 11c
of Britain, by prefacing our c-'irmand witH
a threat, should not be fufficient to pre!
vent a I'ecompence & provoke tc war o!<:
causes of conttoverfy arc addul. The
breaches of the treaty of peace* by de
taining the posts and negroes, art bid fub
jedts of complaint.' *
Why they are bronght for war... now,
made an indifpenfitle preliminajy ol
aty, when Britain is aided by a pow
ful confederacy, and the world is like
rider, is difficult to conceive, unlcfs we
vifh to kindle here the flame of war.—
Further fir, this throws luch an unequal
burthen on our Merchants* as amounts to
sppreffion. They have already fuffered
extremely from British and other depreda
tions. They beai the principal burthens
in raifmg our Revenue. Is it right to
add to all this, and forbid many of them
to exercise that business, by which they
get their bread, until Britain (hall not on
ly make compensation for their recent in
i uries ; but also fettle all the old matters
of difference precisely on our own terms ?
We are connecting matters which our in
terest requires (hould be separate. Bri
tain, following our own example here,
will fay that by the treaty, all Britifti
debts were to be paid ; but the State laws
and the Courts of Virginia have prevent
ed this. They will offej- to set off these
again ft the injuries fuffered by our mer
chants, and perhaps the ballance will be
against us. Will this be prote&ion to the
ludefers p Yet if we conned these claims
together we cannot obje& to their doing
the fame. It is throwing on the mer
chants all the political evils and burthens
of America. Yet we who oppose this
measure, have been charged with wanting
feeling for their fuffering. Provoking an
unnecessary war will facrifice all their pro
perty now abroad, and deprive them of
all hope of reeompence, for that which
has been already condemned. Going to
war is surely no way to induce Britain to
make compensation ; and it is as certain,
that this Country will be under no obliga
tion to do so, if war (hall be the issue.
This Country is bound to indemnify them
only when we refufe to obtain fntisfaction
from Britain, or to avenge their wrongs.
What inconvenience Pnould we experience
from the delay occalioned by the usual
forms of seeking redress ? Can Britain
run away, like a private malefactor, so
that we cannot catch her to punifli her ?
We (hould at least, be better prepared for
war. If the reasons for it are strong,
they will not fuffer by our taking time to
examine them. Are we afraid that pafii
on will cool, which we hear avowed as the
principle which governs, and ought to
govern our counsels ? Or are we appre
hensive that passion on this occasion is po
pular ? I fufpeft this last idea, has no
small influence. We ought to judge that
nothing will be popular which ,is not right.
I have more refpecl for my constituents
than to believe thaj they will run mad, and
then become so myfelf to please them.
That 1 (hould continue in this feat, is of
very small importance to me, and of none
to the public ; But it is of infinite mo
ment to preserve our peace and national
honor. The path of redfitude is the way
to honor. The man who walks in it with
out deviating, will generally meet the
public approbation. But if h* (hould
fail in this, his own fellings will reward
, him.
(To be Continue J.):
Foreign Intelligence.
ST. PETERSBUUGH, Feb. r.
Our ambaflador at the Porte, has not yet
received any preciie answer to the several ve
ry interesting points presented to th« Divan.
Ihe 1 urks exprei's. great uneasiness respect
ing the preparations making on the frontiers
of Ruflia, where we on our fide are eftabhfh
ing immerife magazines. In the ports of Se
baftopol, Oczakow, and Cherfon, there are
ie\eral Jhips of the line and frigates ready
to fail. It is thought tilt Empress meditates
another expedition on the Dniefler, to de
prive Poland 1 of" all communication with
Turkey. It is probable that the Divan itfelf
has given birth to'this object by the ambi
guity with v»fcich it answered our demands
on ,the last partition of Poland'. Probably
our court also itfelf perceived that the Porte
would endeavour to establish a league with
feme other powers, which might easily be
come prejudicial to the repose of the North;
NANTES, - February 15.
\ telaris has been (hot at Noirmontiers,
the guillotine jominues to be occupied, and
the Commifiion ad hof dispatches by 400
ajid 500 at a time ihe -wretched banditti
which they firing us from all parts ; they
moot or drown them, and bury- them 40 anil
50 111 a grave, which occaCons such a fler.ch
t'iat we fear some contagious dilorder break*
ing out ; froth graves are digging, and the
otters covering with earth ; this will purify
ie air, but the vitftims are still very fttime-
P articulai "!y Towards the quarters of
" . RASU2, February 5.
The coutriEutious aad provisions which
the Trench have coileited in the Palatinate
areluppcfed to "fee more than neceiTar)- for
the support of the army of the Rhine for .>n e
yeai. 13ut profiting from pall experience,
tbey have lent them all into the interior of
France, to def.-at the purpcfe, as 'Ley fay, of
any futuri treasons.'
The Piedmontefe, a/tor a Jitftldi cam
paign, haw retired from the Col de Tende,
and have dispersed their troops in the neigh
bouring quarters. The king of .Sardinia has
begun and ended his campaign at Saorgio !
PARIS, February 27.
THE'enquiry after Atb/illence is inva
riably the order of the day, and the c.niie
of our diilrefs begins to'be very clenily
seen through by those who are capable of
reflection. Formerly weconfumed 400,000
weight of llock fifli; an imtnenfe quanti
ty of rice was brought us from the Levant,
and our herring Hfhery went a coniideva
ble way towards our nourishment. At
this time we are absolutely deprived of all
these articles, which mtift be replaced by
productions of our own growth ; and the
quantity of these alio has been lefTencd in
a degree on which it is impoflible to cal
culate. The game and tame fowls, \Vhich
heretofore formed an important part of
onr support, are almost entirely annihila
ted- Last ycar.it was found neceflaiy to
thresh the corn in the month of Sep
tember inttead of December, infomucli
that there has been an anticipation of no
less than tjiree months in the corn destined
for the present year's nouiiftiment.
1 here can, therefore, be no longer any
surprise refpeiling the difficulties of pro
curing subsistence.
On the other hand, those who deal in
the moll neees*ry articles of consumpti
on, refufe to conform to the law against
monopolists, notwithflanding the punish
ment of death annexed to it. The law
of the maximum is very generally infring
ed ; and in the Fauxbourg, St. Autoine,
the populace lately ttopped a waggon la
den with butter, cheese, and eggs,
brought'from the Jiftance of 18 leagues.
Tis true the Constituted Authorities had
these ai tides valued and distributed among
the crowd, but this was done amidlt the
repeated exclamations of the women—
" a la lanternc."
Heretofore all thedepartments of France
have been Sacrificed to Paris, and their
piovifions withdrawn from them to feed
that focus of the Rebellion. But now
thai every resource and every supply is ex
hausted, Paris begins to feel, in common
with the reft of the nation, all the hor
rors of a Scarcity. The want of butchers
meat, at this time, occasions the greatc'l
dillrefs. C'haumette andHebert vainly
endeavored to lay to the account of the
arilloctats, and the criminal plans of Mr.
Pitt, the famine which now prevails in Pa
ris. The people saw through these idle
declamations, and it became neceflary to
search the evil in its source.
We learn from Colmer, that forty of the
richest Jews resident in that city have been
all of them guillotined.
Gen. Pichegru writes, that he waits with
impatience for mulkets for the troops of the
firft requisition, who are without arras.
NATIONAL CONVENTION'
February 8.
The people of colour resident at Paris,
appared at the bar to congratulate the con
vention on the abolition of flaverr in the
French Weft-India I (lands.
" This decree," exclaimed the Orator of
the deputation, " has restored to liberty, and
consequently to happiness, one million of the
human race, who have hitherto groaned un
der the chains cf flavcry. You have made
us forget the wrongs cf two centuries! We
mean not to return you thanks—Republicans
acknowledge no rfrremonies of tb;jt kicd.We
flia'l only declare that you have defervcd
well of your country, and of the whole
world."
The people of colour were received fiTfh
the loudest ipplaufe. In a fecorid petition,
they declared that they.meaitf to devote them
selves to the care of the wounded soldiers.
Jean-Baptifte-Belle, a black, Deputy from
St. Domingo, entered into a long detail of
the cruelties which the people of colour hid
fuffered #t St. Domingo, and reqirefted the
arrest of the chiefs of the Colonial Afiembly,
which was the only method, he said, of Cav
ing the Colonies.—Referred to the Commit
tees of Public and General Safety.
DEPARTMENT OF PARIS.
30th Pluviofe.—Feb. 18.
We are in the utmofl astonishment at the
news which we frequently find in the Eng
lish newspapers, in the pay of government.
Simon who iiad been employed in the cjr<- of
y°TLTi.r Capet, amused the municipality the
other day, by reading an account to tlit'm of
Lis arrival in London, though in fa£t be hasnot beefl out of Paris, and is it this prefer.t
moment in a state of requisition, to make
Ihoes for the soldiers.
«
GENERAL PICHEGRU,
Commander in ChieJ of the Army of the
North, to the
SOCIETY OF THE JACOBINS.
Brethren and friends, as soon as 1 liad re
ceived my appointment to the command of
the northern army, I resolved, to come among
you for the purpose of repeating the oath
which i 9 engraved on my heart, and of ai
furing you that I will defend to the last
drop of my blood, Liberty and Equality and
the unity and indivisibility of the Republic.
Orders, however, which have been tranf
irtitted to me and which command me to set
off initamly for the army, deprive me of the
pleasure which I had proposed to myfelf.
" I fly to my brethren in arms, determined
nevr to separate from them till we have
bowed to its b?fe the column of despotic
power.—l glory in the fucceiTes of the army
of the Rhine, and I am convinced that the
soldiers o£ the army of the North have equal
courage and eqml patriotism. A French Re
publican fighting for liberty must be invin
cible.
" Founded on the rights of man continue
to propagate the love of the Republic, while
we are fighting in defence of it.
" I fo'emniy swear that the arms of the
Republic (hall be triumphant, and that either
the tyrants (hall be exterminated, or. I will
my life in the ccnteft. My last words
(hall be Viye la liepubliquc !—Vive la Mon
tugnc !
(oigned) . « Pichegru,
Commander in Chief of the army of the
North. . '.
' February ix.
\ Barrefe raids a report on La Vendee, not
Hot to alarm the Convention, not to speak of
MfurnetSionof X-3 Vender, a refurre<£\ien
i'iipoffiMe, though much desired by bad citi
zens and the partizans of the. foreign pow
ers, Some midak.es h? # been co nmitted in
1/3 Vendee, which had given freflj hopes to
the remnant of the banditti; feme bodies of
them had collected, but the troops of the re
public had alrca4y dispersed them in fereral
place*. He prppofed several measures which
were adored, and-a monument ordered-to
be ere£led*o. the memory of young General
Moulin, who killed himlelf to prevent his
felling into the hands of the royalifls.
The convention decreed, that the tnemory
rtf General Moqlin behig dear to the repub
lic, a monument ihould be ereifted over his
grave with this mfenption—" Republicans 1
he destroyed .himfelf that he might not fall
Irving into the hands of the ruffians!"
The Representatives of the People with the
army at the Weltern Pyrennees to the
Convention. ,
" Lan S fa" the republic !—Chawvins-dra-
ganj, Pluvioje 17 (Feb. $.)
" This morning we were attacked by five
colunns of Spanish troops, cornpofed of about
15,000 men. Their intention was to fire the
barracks of the Sans-Culnttes, and to pene
trate into the interior; but we have van
quiihed, and forced the Spanish General tc
retreat, after having loft about- 1200 men
Our Iof? cor,lifts in 60 killed, and 150 wound
ed. The battle iafled eight hours. This i
one of the moll glorious days of the repub
lie. The French, attacked on all points
nave triumphed every where."
February J9.
Barrere, in the name of the committee of
public welfare, made a report refpe<fting
lome frefli viiflories gained over the remains
of thp royalists of La Vendee. " I hope," ,
said jlarrere, " this will be the last time that
1 lhall speak to you of that difgraceful part of
the Ktvuulic." He firft read a letter from
the Ri-prelentatives of Saumur, dated Feb.
i.Uh, announcing, that the royalists were re
duced to 7000 men at moll, who were not
even all armed—that the division ofCharette
conliited of not above 4300 men, and that
of Laroche Jaquelin of 3000.
Genera! Haxo wrote' from Nantz, Feb.
15th, that General Cordelier, after the vic
tory of Chollet, purfuetl and overtook the
banditti near Montrevaux j the combat last
ed two days ; the banditti were completely
put to the rout; 1500 remained dead on the
held, and ijoo drowned themselves in a '
neighbouring river. A young woman, who
leemed to command the rebels, has also been
killed. This vi&ory has been obtained o«r
the remains of the army of La Roche Jac
quehn. J
Fepruary 15.
Letter of the Representatives of the Peo
ple at B reft, dated Feb. 10.
The sword of the law begins to strike
the guilty heads. The Revolutionary
i ribunal has just condemned to deatth
three naval officers of the faction of the
infamous Larivicre, who delivered up our
/hips to the enemy in the Leeward If-
Jandi. They were convided of having
ho-.fted the white flag, and of having
brought to the fcaffold the patriots of
those countries. In confequenre, Mont
eclair, Robert Rougemont, and Kercou
all three ex-noblea, have been dispatched'
here, amidtt the shouts of Vive la Repub
liqiif.
" The fleet is excellently difpofcd : it :
applauds the.cond& of the Convention, ill
having rejected all terms with the despots.
The commonalty of Brest some time ago
contained men, who wanted to lacerate
their country with the daggers of federal
ifm, but now it only contains men worthy
of liberty ; and I, can allure you that will
for ever belong to the Republic.
" P S. I forgot to inform you, that
we hold here in the castle, converted into
an house of arrest, the ex-deputy Giroud,
of the departmyit of Eure and Loire.
He difappearedirf the convention on the
15th of June lilt. ; he probably overrun
the: rebellious Departments. We found
upon him falfe passports, and he hovered
about among the miners of Poullaoien,
some liftle mutinies among those miners
are certainly his work. We write to the
committee of Public Welfare, to know if
he has not been out {awed. "
Insertion in Bulletin,
Oudot, in the name of the committees
ofGeneral Safety and Legiflaion, madehis
report relpeding Chaud-it, the Notary,
under fentencr of death. He read several
pieces which served to convifl Chaudot,
and analized the defence made cf vhis
public fuftionary. He allured the Con
vention, that they had been milled refpect
i»g his affairs. He urged that Chaudot
had received sentence, not for having figrv
ed, as a secondary .agent, the loan opened
for the Prince of Wales, but becaute he
had been convicted by a Jury of being
an accomplice in the plot which exilted to
favor the foreign enemies of the Republic,
by {applying them with specie. He con
cluded by moving, that the decree by
which the execntion of Chaudot was sus
pended, be revoked.
CufFroy, member of the committee of
General Safety, demanded that the sen
tence of the Revolutionary Tribunal be
annulled— and quoted many instances
to prove the patriotism of Chatidot.
The Convention decreed, that the re
spite of the sentence of Chaudot be re
voked, and himfelf left for execution.
Jeanbon Saint Andre presented a re
port in the name of committee of Public
Welfare, refpefting the claim of a priva
teer who had taken an American prize
bound to England ; the privateer who car
ried his prize into Havre-de-Graee, was
there fined for having brought in that
capture- The Reporter demanded, that
the claims of the privateer be disregarded.
—Dec reed.
UNITED STATES.
NEW-YORK, April 29.
By recent intelligence from Canada, we
can aflure the public, that they in that quar
ter are not making the leafl preparation for
war.
The following Copy of a Protest entered
on the Minutes of the Council of Appoint
ment, has bsen communicated for p'ablica
tion, by
A Correspondent.
DiSCOVERING soon after the appoint
ment of the present council, that a majority
of its members entertained ideas of their ■
powers repugnant in my opinion to the con
llitution, I took an early opportunity of ex
plaining to them my conitru&ion of their
constitutional powers, as fanftioned by the
uniform practice of the preceding councils.
They notwithftar.ding proceeded to en-'
crease the number of Civil Magistrates
in several Counties, and without a hear
ing or any adequate cause assigned, to dif
p.ace many officers. After cxpreffing my
disapprobation to them of such proceedings,
I was at firft content that it Ihould only be in
forced by others from my omitting to fub
knbe the minutes in every cafe in which I
deemed the a&s of the council exceptionable
but as I co»ceive it my duty to bear testimo
ny in the moll explicit and unrefer'ved man
ner against every departure frem constituti
onal principles, I now deliver in writing, my
reafonsfordiflentinrfrom the measure pur
fuedbyUe councl, left my silence on the
fubjcdt Ihould be construed to fantfion a pre
cedent detracting from the powers of the
executive, and injurious to the intercft of the
Jl Miut . ion vests « the governor, the
supreme executive power and authority, and
Sfnll t0 f T that tbe laws are
faithfully executed to the belt of his ability •
also auchomes him, by and with the confjni
?L«thT nC l' f ° if>point 3,1 officers > o^er
n , H 1 redil ' e<Sed t0 be
no manner ' but neither exprelsly
nor impliedly, empowers the council to in
crease or uiminifh the number; on the con
toatrhe 3 Go e CXeCUti °" . of the is confided
to the Governor, his capacity of Supreme
Executive, and as in the exercise of Tat
very elTential and important trust, a propor
,onal degree of refponfibiHty is
is to be forcibly inferred, that in every ih
afceruineri b l ' hC ° f ofßcers is
aicerUined by law, the power of determin-
ing what number is neeeflary, was intended
by the constitution to be lodged in him. For
it this conftruition is not admitted,the coun
cil has it in its power to weaken and perhaps
prevent the interposition of the executive in
enforcing the laws, either in a direfl way by
refufing to appoint such officers as are requi
site for their effectual execution, or in an in
dued! manner by appointing more than is
neeeflary, and thus degrading the reVpeitabi
ty, and diminilhing the energy of the maeif
tracy. The constitution declares that all of
fices, the duration of which is not particu
larly afcertaincd, ihall be held during the
pleasure of the council. By the pleasure of
the ConncH is intended in my opinion not a
capricious, arbitrary pleasure, but a found
rational difcretioft to be exercised for the pro
motion of the public good ; a contrary doc
trine renders the constitution unfafe, and its
admimftration unliable, arid whenever par
tie? exist, may tend to deprive men of their
office, because they have too much indepen
dence of spirit, to support measures which
they suppose injurious to the community and
may induce others from an undue attachment
to office, to facrifice their integrity to impro
per confederations.
(Signed)
GEO. CLINTON.
In Council of Appointment, Albany,
27th March, 1794.
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY I.
Extra&of aLetterfrom Cowes,(England)
dated 18th February, 1794. I' ma y
be depended on as authentic.
" 1 have now to inform you that Govern
ment has iflued an order to their collectors
of the cultoms, to stop all Ihips having on
board pot or pearl allies, and to prevent
their departure till further orders ; in con
sequence of this the Iris, from Boston, ar
rived here on Sunday, is ftopt for the pres
ent, as her cargo consists in part of the a
bove articles."
In the debates in the Britilh Parlia
ment, the conduct of the government of
the United States has been brought for
ward with diftinguiftied marks of approba
tion, as well by members of the adminis
tration as by those in the opposition : The
following pafiage, occurs in a speech made
by the Marquifs of Lanfdowne in the
House of Lords against the war:
" The conduit of the Republic of A
merica was worthy the emulation of every
other power. The Americans could not
brook the insult offered by England, and
while the spirit of the people was willing
to meet the misfoi tunes of war, the wii
dom of that great, that good and wife
man, his Majesty ( I mean General Wash
ington) called them back, and they una
nimously agreed to accede to his recom
mendation to preserve their neutrality. If
it were argued that they were in want of
money, he would alk what was the fitua-
tion of Holland? Its credit was so low,
that it could not borrow money at five per
cent, and her debt had accumulated so
much, that (he could not borrow money
in future, at the most exorbitant interest.
The king of Prussia was in a worse state,
and the Emperor was reduced to the expe
dient of encouraging private donations,
which did not promise by any means to
replenish his coffers. The noble marquis
intreated his majafty's miniiters to beware
how they incurred a war with America :
there were various reasons why the mea
sure should be most cautiously avoided ;
and at the present it was well known to ■
miniiters, that Jamaica was obliged to
open her ports, to receive heavy timber,
and other important articles from Ameri
ca. There was a tima when the Weft-
India islands were valuable to this country,
but that period, in a great measure, had
pasTed away. The French had given free
dom to the blacks, and the spirit of liber
ty was not only diffufing itfelf in St. Do
mingo, but throughout all the Weft-ludia
islands. The Weft-Indies will become so
many money traps ; and though the mo
nopoly may be advantageous to them, it
cannot longer be an advantage to this coun
try. If ministers were of a different opi
nion, why not conciliate America, as the
belt and most \ifeful ally in that quarter."
Lord Grenville in his speech in support
of the war—has the following remarks :
" As to America, which the noble lord
had said was disposed to go to war with
us, his lordship said that he had reason to
be ot a different opinion; on the contrary,
he was persuaded, that if she departed
from her neutrality, it would be on the
fide of her allies.
" He declared that he wished well to
America—was desirous that the utmost
harmony ftould subsist between the two
. • ■ t ■ , ■' » ,
countries, and earnestly wiflied to obliter
ate an 3 wipe away, by every act of good
will and friendly intercoufe, that animosi
ty, which the unhappy contest with this
country had last upon the minds of the
people."
His Lordship here said, that there was
one thing which had fallen from the noble
Lord, refpeaing America, which afto
ni(hed him beyond measure, and gave
him the utmost concern, namely, that it
had been the policy of the British gov
ernment to excite the savages of Ameri
ca to commit h'oftilities against the Ame
ricans. This was a charge of so detesta
ble a nature, and so unwarrantable an as
sertion, that he thought it his duty to
declare it was a gross falfehood : so far
from ftiniulating them to war with the
Americans, the Britifti officers and the
governors of Upper and Lower Canada
had interfered and negociated, and done
the utmolt they could to fettle their dif
ferences, and to bring about a lasting
peace between them.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 30.
arrived.
Snip American Hero, Macey, London
Capt. Macey, of the He o, spoke, in
lat. 32, the ship Active, of this port, and
parted with her off the Banks of New
fonndland. The A&ive is full of paflen
gers, many of whom have the small-pox j
a young lady, passenger, died on board
the Active, and her body was commited
to the deep.
BALTIMORE, April 29.
A gentleman who arrived here from
Norfolk on Sunday last, informs us, that
a Danish sloop attempted to fail from
that port—that Captain Blaney, in a
schooner manned with volunteers, imme
diately pursued and overtook her—and
that on their return they saluted the
French frigate, when a swivel burfted and
killed one of the volunteers. Our infor
mant adds, that on the schooner's arrival
at Norfolk, a person (being made acquaint
ted with the melancholy accident) expres
sing a wish that every one who affiled in
saluting the frigate, might (hare the fame
fate, was tarred and feathered, and led
throngh the principal streets.
foreign intelligence.
PARIS, February 13.
. the 3 1 ft °f January the whole di
vision of Maubeuge was almost barefooted,
and without Hackings or boots.
■A. letter from Morlaix, dated January
32, states that three French Frigates, in.
eluding the Carmagnol, had carried into
that port 30 vefiels bound to England.
The head-quarters of general Hochc
are now at Saarlouis, where the army of
the Mozelle has collected in great force.
It is said that it will Ihortly attack Treves
in three columns. There is also a consi
derable army colleding about Thionville,
The House of Representatives of the Unit
ed States has been principally engaged for
ltveral days in discussing the report of the
committee on the ways and means
The (hip George Barclay come up to the
city this day.
THEATRE.
NEW
'■/■■■l
TO-MORROW EVENING„
May 2.
Will be performed,
A TRAGEDY, called
OTHELLO,
The MOOR of VENICE.
Duke.of Venice, Mr. WigneH
Brabantio, Mr. Green
Grationo, Mr, Warreil
Lodovico, Mr. Cleveland
OtheUo, / Mr. Fennell
Caffio » Mr, Moreton
iago,
Roderigo,
Montano,
Senators,
Mr. Chalmen
Mr. Bates
Mr. Harwcod
Meflrs. De Moulin, Blif
fet, &c. &c.
Jefdemona, Mrs. Morris
Mrs. Shaw
i o which will be added,
& COMIC OPERA, written by the Author
of the Poor Soldier, called
Peeping lorn of Coventry.
Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarters
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.advertisement.
SALES at Nitf'-rt)RK, by A. L.
BLEECKER t3* SOA r S,
#11 Thursday the 15th May rtext at Twelve
o'clock at the TontinCCoffrt House,
THE FOLLOWING
'Tra&s of Land,
In Witkins and Flint's purchase, i" the coun
ty of Tibga, state oi flew Yock.
.The containing acre 1 !
Southwell qua,r. of Tow'nih.p No. i, 9'f
No'tVwetf do. do. 4, 5,6-17
NArth<?aft do. do. 6, 10,^25
South-weft rio. do. 7, 9000
Southwest do do. 8, 3-95^
Northwest do. do. 8, 6,450
Southeast do. do. 9, 0,259
Soutlieaft do, do. I", 9t 000
J*orthwe£t do. do. 10, 10,475
s
-7°>5 21
Thefelapds are rapidly encreaftngin valu. - ,
large fettlcments arc already made in fever,al
of the townfh'tjftj' the gobdne;* of foil, and
ttte advantages i i point f)f situation being so
well known, render any further defci iption
( nv>ece(l'<ity. Am p of the tracts and condi
tions of sale may be seen at No. 10, Queen
{tree, New York.
April io." tuth&s ti4M
" —NO. 2t—
Second ffreet, between Market and Ghefnut
flreetj. Philadelphia.. ..
POYNTELL'S
AMERICAN M MI'FACTORY OF
PAPER HANGINGS,
WIiERE he keeps up a constant stock of
t*n thoufind pieces tor tale, coijipi ifnig every
variety of colours, in grounds and figures, of
the moftSnodern and tasty patterns, for eve
try, part oj a house. The pet fe&lon attained
in t|iis nianufa&ory, in pecuiar neatness of
workma >(hip, durability of colours, variety■
ftrleAgni,ai'd'gowd quality ot the paper, will
be fou'.id to exceed any European papers at
tlie fame moderate Tprtccs.
An ekgafit variety of rich fancy feftoon &
parrow burdei s, and of ftocco and other co
lonrcd pjniiel paperi.
. Flain grounds made to any colour or (hade.
orders for any quantity, t>om
the country or for exportation) executed on
a (hurt notice, on advantageous teims, on
usual credit.
In addition to the above afTortment, he has
i beautiful variety ot
French paper hangings
of very superior quality, (Paris manufactory)
with a variety of Rich Borders.
April 25 tuth&saw
A New Novel.
To the LAQIIiS of Philadelphia.
This Day is Publijhed by
MATHEW CAREY,
118, Market street ;
Price, boond, five-eighth*-ot" a dollar, sewed
\\\ arble paper, hall a dollar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
IN TWO VOLUM ES.
By Mr*. ROWSON, of the New Theatre,
Philadelphia, Author of Viisloria, the In
quisitor, the Fille de Chambre, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given
the following character.
IT may be a Tale of Truth, for it is not
unnatural, and it is a tale of teal diltrefs.—
Charlotte, by the artifice of a teacher, recom
>nend»d to a fchoo'i from humanity rather
tban a conviction of her integrity, or the re
gularity of her former . conduct, is enticed
•f torn'her governed, and accompanies a young
nfficer to America. —The marriage ceremo
ny, if not forgotten, is postponed, and Char
lotte dies a martyr to the inconstancy of her
over, and n'enchery of his friend —The fitu
ationi are artless and affecting—'the defcTip
t tons natural and pathetic ; »t Ihould feel
foi- Charlotte if such a' person ever existed,
wbo for one er or fcarccly, perhaps, diferved
so severe a punilhment. If it is a fiftlon,
poetic justice is not, we think, properly dii
tributed
Said Carey has jujl pullifhed,
A 2 sheet map of Kentucky
compled by Elihu Barker, price one 1 dollar
and two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Germany, Spain,ltaly, the United Provinces,
the Netherlands, and the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars.
Map of New Jersey—Hals a dollar.
Maps of Vermont, Conneflieur, Delaware,
Georgia Price tjirec eighths of a dollar
B9Ch.
April 29.
Concluding Sales.
M' J.
THE Sijbjcrvber having entered into Co
partnership with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the of Sugar Refining, will dispose
of the
Remaining Stock on hand
CONSISTING OF
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By Wholcfale at Prime Coji for Cash.
John Dorfey,
Nb. North 3d street.
tntb&s6w
April is.
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, aid Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
'fewcrul ef w 'ich have appeared in circulation
within a few days fufi i they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but way
be dijlifigujhed by the following
marks:
n<ve Dollar Bill of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the ietter F«
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture- of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and if 'nkes the ink more freely than
the genuine pap^r.
The O. in the word Company is fmalier
than the M. and other Utters ot that word,
so that a line extended fntm the top of ihe O,
to touch the top of the M. would extend con
fideTtbly above the range of the whole word.
In the wold Unired the letters are narrow
erand cloler together than the reft of the bill
The i and fin the word pi omiTe ate not
parallel, tlte yinclining much mote torwarJ
than the i.
The eugraving is badly executed.the strokes
of all the Letters are stronger and the device
in themargii. particularly is much coarf, r and
appears, darker than in the tiue bills. Some
ot the counterfeits bear date in 1791—Where
as the Eank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were iflued in
ihat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank ps North
America.
ALL that have appeared letter
B. for tlieir alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to thi.t of the couuterfeit Dollar Notes
above difcubed ; the engraving is better exe
octed, aiid they appro, ch nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines tlrroogh ihe word Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, are in number th r»
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfeit?.
The \vo\d Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar B Us «s defer ibed a
bnve, the o being less ihan tlie w, and others
following.
There is no stroke to the t ir he word North
whereas in the-genuine bi11.9 the stroke is well
defined
The letter* cnf in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come dawn to
the line, but are so ttrf a$ to give an irregular
appearance Jo the word, the ft* and go
ing below them.
The signature ] Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamb-black and
oil, and differs trom other inks used in
printing the bills and the calhier's signature.
It is fuppoled these forgeries were committed
in forne of the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come from
thence, and two perfous have been apprehend
ed in Virginia, on fufpicton of being the author
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
| will be paid to any Person or Persons who ftiail
discover and prosecute to cpnvi£fcion the fevetal
offenders of the following defcriptioOS or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufactured
the paper on which the Bills are printed.
The person or persons, who engraved the
plates.
T-l
The printer or printers, of the bills.
Every p'erfon who has acted as a principal in
any other w*v, in the counterfeiting aftd utter
ing the (aid bills.
Philadelphia, March 2.8, 1794
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
ter B.
They may be diftinguilhed from, the genu
ine by the following MARKS :
The paper of rhe counterfeits is of a more j
tender texture and glofley furface than the I
genuine,, and there is no water mark in them.
Tfae letter G. in the word Caihier, in the
true bills is strongly whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine "hair
(fcroke, evidently in an uhfinifhed slate. Thfe
letter a in the word demand, is badly formed
and tl»e whole word ill done, and there is no
■omnia at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
The marginal device, is much darker in
he faJfe, than in the genuine bills owing to
the (hade strokes being coarser, much nearer
logether, and consequently. much more nu
merous. This difference strikes the eye at firft
*ew.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
iDOLLARS, will be paid for apprebendinj?, &
orofeeuting to conviction the several above
lefcribed Offenders in refpeft to this, as to
he last described bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Picfident
of the United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of"the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
peftive Boards.
view.
tuth&s3w
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation,—also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of J and and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
April 22, 1794,
TO BE SOLD,
just Publifoed,
In one hantjfome volume, umo. PrICC si
and for sale s?
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Seem J
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which' it impoles.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society, at Haarlem.
Correßed aiut Enlarge»■
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D. ,
profeflor of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
oi Nature, and of Ecclesiastical Hiftoiy ,
andMinifterof the Enghfh Church at U
trecht. ..
Aliquid Temper ad communcra utilitatem at
' ferendum Ciciro.
The First American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality, il right
ly understood, is the only basis on which
universal ju'ftice, sacred order, Mid perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
!y lecured. The view of it exhibited in tins
eiT#y, at the fame time that it reprelles the
iniolence of office, the tyranny of pi ide, and
tile outrages of oppression ; confirms, in the
most forcible manner, the necefiitv of subor
dination, and the" just demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loofenn.g the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftir^i° n ,
draws more clofeiy every social tie, unites in
one harmonious and ju(Hy proportioned tyt
teni, and brings men together on the even
ground of ihe inherent rights of tuman na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and oi a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18.
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, deducing 15 per Cent, from
the Prizes —this Lottery conjifls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
1 4>539 Prices and 23,461 Blanks,
bein" about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Directors of the Socicty for eftab'iilhing
■Ufttul Manufactures, having resolved ro
ere 11 L'O TTER JES for raising One Hundred
Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Ast of
the LcgifKure ot the Slate of New-Jerley, have
appointed the following persons to luperintend
and direfl the drawing of the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rulus King, Herman Le Roy, James
Wat lon, Richard Hariifon, Abijah Hauimoud,
and Cornelius Ray, of the New-York—
Thomas Willing, J6feph Ball, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew Bayard* ot the city of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
Elias Boudinot, General Elias Dayton, James
Parker, John Bayard, Doctor Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton, Jolhua M. Wallace, Joseph
Bloomfield, and Elifha Boudinot, ofNcw-Jer
{ey, who offer the tallowing Scheme of a Lot
tery, and pledge themfilvts to thf public, that
they willtake evety affurarrce and prec-aution in
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from tiose to time, as icceived, into
the Bauks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for ihepurpofeot paying Piiz s, which
(hall be immediately difcliarged by a check
npon one of the Bapks.
SCHEME:
10,000 , io,poo
1
.*
5
lift-
to*
.iiflofl-:
»oo<>
3000
8100
'4.539 ?"«»• 262,000
23,461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Laitdiawn number, 2,000
38 000 Tickets-at. 7 Dollars each is 266.000
The drawing will under the in
fpe&ion ps a Committee of the Superintendents,
as foo,n as the Tickets are fold,ot which iimely
notice will be given.
The Superintendents have appointed John N.
of Newark, Jacob R. Hardenberg,
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample" fecuriiy for drlchaiging the
trust rcpnfed imtrern.
fldr" In order to fscure the pun&ual paytnent
of Prizes,the Superintqndants,of th" Lottery
have di{e£ted that the Managers (ball each enter
into bonds in 40,900 dollars, with fout fumc'ient
fccurities, to perform their inftiunion's, tlie fub
itance ol which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
(hall receive the sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he (hall immdiatety'"place the lame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia,, to the
ciedit of the Governor of the Society l , such
ol the Superintendants as live in the city where
the monies are placed, to remain there nntil the
Lottery is drawn, for Jlhe.paymni of the Pr zes.
IT. The Managers to take fufftciem
For any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
responsible for them.
111. To keep'regufar books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ftrafts of which shall be font-,' monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon,. January-», 1794.
N On application to either of the abore gentle
men, information will be given where tickets
m f 4V be had.
February 24.
m&t
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-ftrect, New-Yo*k.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfclf
entirely 10 the PURCHASE & SALE of
I s f<)CKS 011 CO.VI MISSION t beg - leave to of
| t r his lervicesto his friends and others, in the
line ol a Stock Broker. Thnfc who may please
to favor htm with their bufinels, may d p-iid
upon having it tranfafted with thevtmoft fide
lity and difpatch'.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will be ftiiftly
attended to. LEONARD BLfcECKER.
rYi&i ht I
Pbilad. April Z2, 1794.
Notice, agreeably to charter, is here
' y given to the members of the Corporation
for the Relief of Poor and I)ijlrejpd Prefiy
terian Minijlers, and of the Poor and Dis
tressed Widows and children of P rejbyterian
Minijlers, that a meeting of said corporation
is to take place, on the aad day of May next,
in the second Prelbyterian church in the city
of Philadelphia, at 4 o'clock P. M. for the
dispatch of all such bufmefs as may then be
brought before the board.
ASHBEL GREEN,
Secretai y of the Corporation.
t*th&s6t
t'u&ftf'
* 10,000
10, poo
*0)000
k f
.;: »cy,6oc
r N r
•,f qiOoo
. . . ' '^OiOQP
' 3s>°P C
81.000
3,0 po
2,000
1,000
•500
100
3°
ao :
'12
tu&f
SV--'*'
Just Publifhcd,
AND TO SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone house, No. 41, South iecond
Street,
Hiftoricai Collections •
CONSISTING OF
STATE PAPERS,
And other authentic Documents, intended as
materials for an Hiltory of the United Stat<s
of America.
BY EBtNEZER HAZARD, A. M.
In two large quarto volomrs, price ten dol
lars in boards.
Subscribers will be fumilhed with the 2d.
Volume 011 paving th'.e dolfars and a quarter
—having paid five dollars and a quarter on
receiving the firft.
This second volume comprehends, among
other interefti"g particulars, a complete co.
py of the Recordsof the United Colonies of
N. England, in which the conduct of thecom
miffioners relpe&ing tlie general concerns of
the colonies—the neighbouring Indians—'and
th« Dutch at Manhattans (now New York) is
psyticnlarly detailed.
'*„* Materials are collected fyfficient to
form a THIRD VOLUME, The time at
pub',idling will depend on the encouragement
to bi derived from fubferiptions which willbs
received by Thomas Dobfon, Philadelphia;
Jere. Libbey, Portsmouth, New Ilampfliinj
Thomas & Andiews, &( Dav. Weft, Button;
aia Thomas, Worcester ; Isaac Beers, New-
Haven; Timothy G' een, New London ; Jacob
Richardson, Newport; John Carter, Provi
dence ; Hugh Gaine, Thomas Allen, and
Samuel Campbell, New York ; Fred rick
Craig, Wilmington, Delaware; James Rice,
Baltimore; Mr. Lhidley, Norfolk ; David'
Henderfon, Fredericksburg; John-Grammar
p terfburg ; Augustine Davis, Richmond ; F
X- Martin, Newbern, N. C. John Bradley,
Wilmington ; and William: Pnte Y9ung,Cliai"-
lefton.
April 4-
Treasury Department,
Re-venue Office, April ikth, 1794.
Communications by post or
otherwise. will be.jcceived by way of infor
mat ion at the office of the Commiffiooer of
the Revenue from perfous willing to supply iroit
Cannon, Cannon Ball, and Shells, for the for
tifications and Ships of War. The. fitnefs o£
the metal for cannon, and the capacity >* f th<;
founders in smelting, in preparing and mix>
ing the metal, and in calling and boring the
cannon (which are to be cast foiidly) will re
quire to be par:icnl&rly stated.
S -milar communications will also he
ed from any persons willing to supply live
oak and red cedar timber for the const? u&ion
of the(hips of war. Different plans of pro*
curing and fupplving the fame may be propok
ed. The con veniencc of the fit nation in re
gard to navigation, and the state of the timber
whether already fallc.n or hereafter to be cut t
will require to be noticed.
All the necessary particulars in regard to
the,feveral articles which are wanted, will be
> fpecified ir. contrasts intended to be grounded
in part on the information, which is hereby
fought.
PASSAGE POUR ST.DQMINGUE.
Tousles Francois qui fe font prelentc
ou voudront fe printer pour avoir urie
prompte paflaA;e.pour St. Domingue, font «n
---ftampient laillcr leurs noms aujoui
d'hui ou demain, dans le comptoir de James
Mc. Curach & Co. No' 42 Dock street, qui
fe propofeul d'envoyer foil batiment le Same
-31 prochain 3 de Mai: le batiment elt iout
pr£t pour la tfoile avec des bonnes ac
commodations ponr prendre paffagers » bord.
April 29, 3 f -
NANKEENS.
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
FOR SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April li. iTiw&ftf
PHILADELPHIA:
Pttw-TEir BY'JOHN FENNO; No 3
Soulli. Fauith-Stieet.
«
■)
m wftfjw