4?
evening advertiser.
[No. 1 10 of Vol. V.]
For Sale or Charter,
ANDROMACHE,
(^ n American bottom)
is a stout good vessel, about two years old,
burthen 232 rom, has only made three voy
uk and may be Cent to sea at a ftn.ll ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
WHARTON i 3 LEWIS.
dtf
March 2i
For Amsterdam,
t The new fact-failing, copper-
JkjjjjfSir bottomed SHIP
MM ADRIANA,
■Si g K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight orpaffage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. PalTengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794. dtf
For Norfolk & Frederieksburgh,
r SALLY,
fsjp' John Earl, Matter.
A staunch good veflel, will fail in a few
days. For freight or p flage, apply to the
master on hoard at Chefnut street wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONY & SON.
March 31. dtf
A FEW BARRELS OF
POTATOES,
Well picked, out of a very large quantity—
AND A FEW
Tierces of Rice,
Lwr &fmo r
No. 117, north Second street,
April iy. ' dtf
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A fe-iu bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Oeiraburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
llajs IVare, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, •va
rious JIZI'S.
• •... _ r. _ .
rious fv.tes.
Sheathing Paper,
Sweats Iron, square and fiat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Gnat Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, cfc. &c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale
(hauld application be made "within a few days ;
etherwifs Jbe loiu take freight for Amjler
dam.
March I, 1794.
The Profits arising from the folloiuing~publi
cation are for the benefit «f the Poor.
Just publilhed, printed by R. Aitk.cn and
Son, and fold by J. Crukfhanlc, W. Young
T. Dobfon, and the pther Bookfcllers,
MINUTES
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed on tne 14th September 1793, by
the Citizens of Philadelphia, the Northern
Liberties, and the Diftrift of Southwark,
to attend to and alleviate the fufferings of
the afflicted with the Malignant Fever,pre
valent, in the City and its vicinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
A lift of persons admitted into the Hospi
tal at Bulh hill, (hewing the times of their
admission, death and difchargc.
Number of Houses, Deaths, Sec. in the
refpe£live streets, alleys, and courts in the
ctyof Philadelphia, Northern Liberties, and
Diftrift of Sovthwa'k.
A lift of the Interments in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia, Northern
Liberties, and Diftri& of Southwark, with a
meteorological accoont of the weather.
A summary of donations in cash and provi
(ions, received from sundry persons and pla
ces, for the ufiof the poor and afßifted.
April 2. d£w
The following Certifi
cateof the funded three per Cent Stock ol the
Domtftic Debt ol the United Slates Handing on
the books of the Treatury of the laid United
States, in the names of Donuald and Burton of
London, meichants, and signed by Joseph
Nouife, Register of said frealury, to wit :—
No. 5476, dated 24th August 1792 for 29,59
dollar* and £3 cents wa s tianlmittcd from Lon
don in the ship Peter, Paul HufTey, mallei;,
bound for New York, and ha* been toft.—
The Subfcnbcr intending to apply to the Tiea
fury of the United States to have the fame re-
Itewed, dcfurs all perfoiis who are interested in
the said certificate, to make their obje&ions
thereto, if any they havf*.
Francis Macy.
*
Philad. Manch 27. d6w
H« removed from No. 40, north Thud street,
to No. 117, north Second llieet, between
Arch and Race in thofc stores lately
occupied by Mr. Sxarman, oppoffte to MelTrs
J W. and \V. Gibbs, where he keeps his
Wholesale Warehtufe* to' the iale ef all
f or ts of GOODS, and <he transaCtion of all
com«n«&on Bufincfs, and
Has no<w for Sale,
White silk stockings,
High dieffed Engliih falhiou
A box ot French pomatum
Hanging Paper ol the bed patterns and co-
lours
A ftw pieces of Long Lawns
An in«oice of Satun Cloaks, which 00 ac
count ot the feafou wiii be fuld at a
long credit
Champaign Wine 6 years old
A few pipes Lisbon Wine
Do. do. Port Wine , t
Do. do. Madeira
Som c Calcavflla Wine
Burgundy Wine aud Claret.
April 17. dtf
PIRACY!
THE schooner DELIGHT, the pro -
petty 4>f Manuel Antonio Martin, ot the
land of Bona Vista, was on the 18th ot Oc
tober laH,wlineTyi"ii arandwr-in the road ot
that lfland, forcibly entered and cained off
by JOHN DUNHAM, JOHN MURRAY, h
man by trie name of DODGE, and one other
pcrioi), name unknown.—This veilel was fold
to M. A., Martin, by William M'Neill, who
came to BonaViltain her, from Madeira—
She was built in the county ot Matthews,
Mate of Virginia, and was registered at New-
York, the 16th April, ,793—Her name was ;
i ptimed on her stern—Her dimensions as fol
lows : 56 feet 6 inches keel, 16 feet 6 inches
j beam, hold 6 feet 2 inches, her burthen 54
I tons. _
I At the time of their entering the velTel,
1 there was a black man on board by the name
I of BaHbazer, whom they carried off with iheiq.
John Dunham was mate of the veflbl under
Capt. M'Neill, prior to the sale oi her, and
the other perions were mariners. Dunham
is a married man, and has a family at Nan
tucket.
The cargo of the vessel confided of the fol
lowing articles.—2 cases containing 74 pieces
Linen ; cafe Wine-GlafTes; 1 bale containing
9 pieces Broadcloth; 1 do. 9 do. 79 pieces
Cotton, (needle worked) —33 do. do inferior,
2 m'oys of Salt; Ihe had seven small arms and
some pistols.
bars,
r
It* any person can give any information oi
this velfel, or auy part of the property, lb that
it can be recovered, or the offenders brought
o; just ice, they are requested to inform Mellrs.
Joseph Anthony and Son, Philadelphia;
Mu r r ay and Mumford, New-York ; Clari
and Nightingale, Providence; or H*aj
and Amory, Bolton.
March 17.
<I—tf
In the Name of the French
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
U1 commiflions or authorizations tending to
o be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
he French Republic, one and indivisible
March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
The Miniller Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are requefled to republilh the
oregoing notice. t d
Cs* This Gazette Jhallbe enlarged, as it
receives encouragement—The Subscription
encreajes Favors are
folicited —These conjlitute an ejfential Item
in diminishing the Debit fide of the Account.
Monday, April 21, 1794.
Louis Ofmont,
Republic.
ttifeb States
AND
Excellent, CLARET,
In hogiVcads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,,
In pipes, hogftieads and quaiicc casks,
FOR SALE BY
No. ill. South Fxoot iluct
'*"• gt 1794-
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Maiket-Street,
An KfTay on Slavery,
Dcfigned to exhibit in a new point ot view
its eftc&s on morals, indvjlrx, and the peace of
society. Some rads and calculations aie offered
to prove the labor of'Jreemen to be much more
puduftiXK than that ot Jlaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the inceffary cottclufion, that
ftavery is impolitic as well as unjufl.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
*5-
F^bruai
St. Domingo Sufferers.
THOSE perfoHS who limit rtook to colled
the fu'ofcription made for the relief of the a -
bo e unfoitunate perform, are r»queiled to
complete their returns, where they have, not
already done it, and to deliver the fame with
any balance they may hold, into the funds of
the Trcafiirer, who will receive any l'abfcrip
tion which remains uncollected, or any frelh
donation. It is hoped instant attention will
be paid to this notice, to enable the commit
tee ofdiftribution to close their accounts and
give further relief to a number of those per
fo»s still remaining here, whose situation is
truly diftrc fling.
By order of the committee of diAribution,
Robert Smith, Treasurer.
P-S. tt is requelled the different Printers
will for a few days, publilh the above.
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the Houfc of Reprefentativts,
December 21(1,1793.
WHEREAS the Commiflioncrs of public
Accounts, have reported, that they cao
noi pioceed to the investigation of the Treasury
Accounts, refpefting fpeciai Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation Therefore,
Refolvcd % That ail holders of special Indents
be duelled, and requireO, on or before the firft
day of November next j to deliver the special In
dents in their pofTeflion to one or other of the
Commifiiofiers of the Treasury, who are to give
rece:ots for the fame, and to report to theCom
njilfiouers on public accounts, on or before the
lenth day of November next, the amount by
theim Tefpeftively received, and also to the Le
giAature, at their meeting in November next,
and that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, Hull be, and the fame are
heft by barred.
Rcjvivcdy That public notice of this resolution
be given iu the several Gazettes in this State,,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And that the Delegates of this
State in theCongrefs of the United States, be re
queued to cause this rclolution to be publithed
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel.
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for the expences attending such publica
tion.
That the resolution be sent to the
seuate tor their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SANFORD DART, C. H. R.
In the SENATE,
Decembir 21(1,1793.
Refobed, That this House do concur wuh the
Houte of Reprefentativcs in the foregoing reso
lutions.
Ordered, That the resolutions be lent to the
House of Representatives.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
diw.
rvtX<»
Lately Published.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
THE Hiitory of New-Hampshire, from the
Discovery of the River Je»
rcmiak falAnap, D. D. 3 Vols. Price in Boards,
4 1-2 Dollars.
The "Forrcfter, an American Fable, being a
Srquel to the History of John Bull the Clothier.
Prce, 75 Cents.
A Dilcourfe, intended to commemorate the
)ifcovery o! America by CbTiftopber Colum
>us; delivered at the reqtieft of the Historical
Society in Maflachufctts, October 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Thiid Ceniuty,
fincc that memorable event. To which are
added,l Four Dt(Tertation&, connc&ed with the
fubjett—By the fame author. Price, 50 Cents.
March 17. tuthJcf3vr
JOHN VAUGHAN,
[Whole No. 569.]
For the Gazette of the United Status.
Mr. Fenno,
You are requested to fublilh the following
in your paper.
A HINT.
Certain young Students of Law with their
aflociates, who have of late frequented a
neighbourhood in this city, and been guilty
of condudt which reflects credit neither on
themselves nor their (Connections, are cau
tioned to beware of a repetition of such con
dudl ; for independent of the chailifement
which will be the consequence, they may ex
pedl to fee their names publiihed in the ncwf
papers.
TO THE OBSERVER.
I HAVE read with much fatisfa&ion,
your occasional remarks, on the merits and
demerits of the Theatric Corps—to the
former, you have rendered juitice—the lat
ter you have treated with tenderaefs—fair
ly avowing no partiality, to influence the
public mind. A man who thus steps for
ward, with principles so independent, is
secure in his own conscience, of having,
with the best intentions done his duty, and
sure of the fuffrages of the public, who,
while they approve, will second his en
deavours. Upon thffe grounds, I con
tribute my mite, and only regret, that I
am unwillingly conftrgined to think, that
you, Mr. Obferver,have somewhat relaxed
in those duties, to the fulfilment of which,
you engaged yourfelf. lam however,
far from supposing, that you will not re
sume your pen, or that you have quitted
the service you volunteered in, before the
campaign is finifhed ; —Perfuaded, that
your jult criticisms mult rather flatter than
offend, and that every, -individual, under
the Banners of the Sock & Buflcin, feel
themlelves under obligations to the Ob
server, they have shewn their gratitude,
by amending that, which he has humbly
recommended.
Pursuing my obje<St thus far—l would
now wi(h to hint to you Mr. Obferrer,
whose prying eye, may not fee all things,
that you would notice, that want of de>-
meanor exhibited by fame, employed in
the concerns of the Theatre :—Surely the
ears of the audienceought not to be dinned
by the clattering of a Bamboo against the
fides of one of the Boxes, during the
performance of Miss Oldfield, in the cha
ra&er of Lady Frances Touchwood ?
It is arrogating in a servant of the public,
and offenfive to all who admire order and
decency :—Surely it is not come to this,
that we are incapable of judging of ex
cellences !—rwe can condemn, and we can
applaud, but premature applause, always
defeats the interested purpose it intends.
Miss Oldfield made her Debut at Annapo
lis, in the character of Defdcmona, and
was deservedly admired as a young Can
didate for public favor. Her firft appear
ance here, was last night, and allowing
for her natural timidity, great indulgence
was (hewn her, and often much applaud
ed. With a fine figure like hers, Ihe is
capable of great improvement—but re
commend her to study a little more of the
" Suavitcr in Modo" giaceful a&ion, and
graceful attitudes, compose more than
half the difficulties of the stage.
I fay nothing of the other performers,
fatisfying myfelf, that in your next paper,
you will do them justice individually, and
remain Mr. Observer,
THE BYSTANDER.
Thursday, April 17.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, January 21.
It is known to Government, that tie
French have coined five hundred thovjfand
guineas, so exactly resembling the Engliih
guinea, that the counterfeit was not dj&o
vered at the mint till after two minute exa
minations. The defeA is in a simple letter
only. What the motives may be of our
enemies for taking this measure, cannot, per
haps, at this moment be explained; but that
it is sinister and ungenerous, cannot be
doubted.A private letter stats the loss of the Al
lies, on the borders of the Rhine! within the
last month, to amount to 35,090 men !—The
lot ot the French, which cannot be so cor
recftlv ascertained, is rated at 40,000.
Th? king's fycech for continuing the w4r,
had a very evident effeiS on our funds. Con
sols fell'to 68 ;-Bihs.
PLYMOUTH DOCK, Jan. 16.
In consequence of an express arrived yes
terday from his Majesty's ship Pegasus, of
z8 guns, Capt. Barlowe, of their having seen
five French frigates; ahd a cutter, to theeaft
ward off the Start, which had taken fcveral
transports with provisions from Cork, the
following ships gdt under way last night,
and proceeded immediately to sea in search
of thdm;
Powerful,
BHliquex,
Dilator,
Pearl,
Foreign Intelligence.
From th London' Morning Chroni
cle, received by Capt. Truxton.
STOCKHOLM, Dec. p.
Our Capital, amidlt an externa! calm,
exhibit s U1 the symptoms of the mcft inter
na! fermentation and public distrust ; double
patroies traverse the (beets, the former or
ders again it going out in the night with
out lanthorns are renewed with great rig
our, and the inhabitants have been direct
ed, uni'.-r the most fev. re penalties, to (hut
themselves up in tbtir houses, the moment
government (hall tl.ink fit to give the fig
n<rt, by firing five guns from the Citadel,
and ringing the great alarm bell. Fortu
nately this has not been found neceflary,
the number of the conspirators being pro
bably much less than was at firft appre
hended.
It cannot, however, be diflembled, that
the spirit of civil discord has arisen to an
alarming height, and that even the citi
zens of divided into fac
tions, inspired with the most bitter animo
sity one against. another. This division
was lately manifeibd on the dismission of
Nordfn, from the office of Intendant of
the Police, and the appointment of Ull
holm by the Regent, to succeed him.
The of Nordin, gave him a
public dinner, as a marlt of their esteem,
upon which their opponents conferred the
fame honor on Uliholm—happily they
• confined themselves to good eating and
drinking, without attempting to disturb
one another, or the public peace.
Uilholm and one Bratt are said to have
difcoverea the firll traces of the conspira
cy, which was afterwards confirmed by
the opening of the Countess of Ruden
flciold's letter to General Baron d'Arm
felt in Italy. This lady, on the exami
nation, denied all knowledge of a conspi
racy; but afterwards, when informed
that government was in pofleflion of par
ticulars, in consequence of which Lieut.
Co!. Sandols was apprehended, (lie made
some confeflions respecting her own part
in it.
. She, however, and all the other persons
in custody, resolutely perliil in refuting to
give up their accomplices. D'Ehren
ftrom, formerly Secretary to the late
King, Is coniidered as one 6f the princi
pals of the conspiracy. Among his pa
pers, have been found proofs of the ut
most importance. The Commis, Seigu
eul, who is also apprehended, was to as
sassinate the "gent in one of those walks
which he often takes, either alone, or
with very few attendants. Mineur, va
let-de-chambre of Baron d' Armfeldt,
whose apprehension was highly intereftintr
is also taken.
On the firft rumour of the conspiracy be
ing discovered, he fled, as is supposed, to re,
pair to his master; but, although he had for
ty eight hours start of his purfuers,they came
up with him. A courier and an oflicer were
diipatched to Italy, with proper inftrucUons
for apprehending d'Armfeldt wherever they
should find him. It was known that he was
at Naples in November, but as his million
was only nominal, it is supposed that he has
since come nearer Sweden, to watch thepro
grefs of a plot which if it had succeeded,
would have put him at the head of the kine
dom. jjg 6
Such are the public rumours, which are to
be'received with caution; because, in all
civil diflentions, it is the practice of each
party to paint the other in the most odious
colours.
PARIS, January 16.
The Representatives Chabot, Bazire, and
Delaunay, are accused of corruption and have
undergone an interrogatory.. Fabre d'Eglan
line has been put under arrest as one of their
accomplices.
74 Capt. Wm. Otway
64 James Brine
64 Edmund Dod
32 Hon. M. D. Courcy
The number of apprehended at
Paris, lulpfciled of the accomplices of
I-ibre d'Eglantine, is very considerable.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
January 22.
Barrere read the following letters ,
" Fort,Vauban, Jan. 18, the second
year of the Freneh Republic
Democratic, one and indivisible.
Michaud, General in Chief of the army
of the Rhine to the Miniilcr of War.
" Citizen Mimjier,
" I date my letter from Fort Vauban.
At the moment when we were actively
preparing to fubjedt it by force, the cne
my abandoned it for fear ; this happened
last night. We have witnefied the explo
sions occasioned by the numerous mines
which cowardice and lafcality dug under
this fort. Devoting tljemfelves to death,
our Republicans rushed forward to snatch
away the matches, which had not yet pro
duced their effect. I aided in person with
the brave Representative Lernann, and
we had the fatisfaftion to find that the
evil was not considerable. We shall soon
have repaired this important post, into
which I immediately sent a fufficient num
ber of troops. Inform the National Con
vention of this delirium of the hirelings of
de pots. The brave army of the Rhine,
no longer beholds slaves occupying the
territories confided to its defence; the
glory of crushing tyrants is reserved for
the brave Sans-Culotes. Vive la Repub
lic !
(Signed)
" Fort Vaifban, Jan. 18, the second
year of the French Republic, De
mocratic, one and indivisible.
The Representative of the people* with
the armies of the Rhine and the Mo
zede, to the Members of the Commit
tee of Public Safety, and the National
Convention.
" Dear Friends,
" Prosperity to the Republic! Fort
Vauban is, evacuated without having cijft
us a man or a (hot. We write to the Na
tional Convention, and citizen Hondelet,
Adjutant-General, a man of uncommon
ment, will tell you the reft. We promis
ed rewards to all who (hould seize the
matches which were every where strewed
tor the purpose of more explosions. The
bridges «re in part burnt, and we are this
instant throwing others over those arms of
the Rhine, which secure ourpolition with
the Isles of Halnud, Stalmatt, and others.
We take similar precautions in iimilar cas
es ; rrnr will we willingly rifle the Jives of
our brothers, though the enemy has fled,
for the fire is scattered too widely not to
make us ttand in fear of new disasters.
Pichegru is gone, and has an excel
lent fuccetfor in Michaud, his friend, my
friend, and the Friend of the Republic. I
" We yelterjjay saw Hoche at th« ren
dezvous at Weiflembourg. We have ta r
ken provilionary measures, which have
been concerted between the two Generals
in chief. Of these the bearer of this let
ter will give you an account. Send us
your orders: The evacuation of Fort
Vauban will doubtless occasion a change
of plan. Write to me by the return of.
the said Adjutant-General: Once more,
prosperity to the Republic ! I embrace
you mod cordially—and remain, everlaft
lng'y> your friend.
(Signed)
From the Paris papers of the 19th, loth,
2 IA) 22d, and 24th.
BREST, Jan. 13.
The day before yesterday, we celebra
ted the Festival of Reason—The statues
of St. Louis and Charlemagne, were ta
ken from the church of the ci-devant St.
Louis, and burnt.
Not a day paflTes without some prize
taken from the enemy being brought in.
Yesterday there arrived, one loaded with
canvas, another with flour, and the third
with provisions. Government bouo-ht
all the commodities at the regulated price,
and they are retailed at the fame price to
the people.
Preparations are incessantly making,
EngLr™
Port of the Mountain, (Toulon) Jan. 13 .
The executions still continue. All the men
haVC P aid thc of their
crimes. The turn oi the wo™ comes next,
Army of the Rh 'tne.
Haguenau, Jan. 18.
The army of the Rhine, with all its ar
tillery, is returned to Haguenau, and has
been replaced in the Palatinate by the ar
my of the Mozelle. The rumor of an in
cursion into the Brifgau continues to pre
vail,
Pichcgru goes to replace General Jour
dain, with the army of the North, bear
ing with him our regret and our esteem.
PARIS, January 2 1.
All the armed fe&ions of Paris, are at
this moment afTembled at the Place de la
Revolution, there where the last King.of
the French died on the fcaffold, to vow
the deftrilftion of tyrants, renew their
oath to live free or die, and exhibit the
facied cause of liberty and equality tri
umphant. Were those who (till cherish
the frantic and culpable hope of reviving
tyranny, but to witness this sublime spec
tacle ; were they bat to behokl the heroic
enthullafm which animates all France,
they would no longer dare the combat,
would no more endeavor to rivet their own
fetters ; they would then be Convinced cf
the utter impossibility of subduing such a
people.
"Michaud."
Ihe number of p. ifoners in Paris on
the 23d, was 5,202.
BRUSSELS, January 20.
" Among the reinforcements received by
General Jourdain's army last week, besides
18,000 troops of the line, are four regiments
oi ChafTeurs, and fix bati a r ion.s raised by re
"quifition in Picardy,-confifting of 800 men
each. Of the men brought from the depart
ment of Calvados, 180 deierted, and arrived
here on Saturday last: they were formerly
perlbns of diftin£tion, and tock arms o-ily
for the purpole of making their escape from
France. 1 hey fay that twenty-four battalions
of 800 men each, were railed by requisition
in Picardy; that they are in general badly
disciplined and badly clothed, but well paid
and well fed j that they chooft all their own
officers by a majority of vote?; that Jour
dain's army is to be augmented to 150,000
men by the middle of February; and that
the invasion of the Aultrian Netherlands is
to be attempted.
" .The action, which took place on Wed
nesday Jail seems to have been liery bloody.
On Saturday 350 French, wounded and pri
soners arrived here, and twenty-eight wag
gon- loads of Aiiibaans wounded.
" On the 16th, a body of 8000 men of
Prince Cobourg's army pafied the Sambre
near Marolles, and attacked the French in
their entrenchments, which were carried by
allault. Ihe enemy had 700 men killed and
500 taken prisoners. They loft seven pieces
of cannon, and were puriued to Landrecy.
The Auftrians had 700 men killedandwound
ed. This victory is attributed to the skill of
Colonel Maeck, who is again returned to the
army.
" Lernann."
" The French, in their turn, attacked our
posts near Templeuve, but were repuiled—
with great loss, however, cn cur fide.
" Field Marihal Lacey is expe<fted here
next week.
" On Saturday a corps of 400 Hulans,
confiftmg of English and Germans, raised
for the service of his Britannic Majesty,
pafied through this city for Tournay.
" It is expeifted here, that Genera! Worm
fer is removed command, and order
ed to Vienna to answer for his condua be
fore the council of war.
January 24.
" The arrival of Colonel Maeck at the
army, aria the vi&ory'of the 16th, would
have quieted our alarms with refpetf to an
ipvafion; but unfortunately the movements
of the Prince of S?x-Cobourg have revived
our fears. The heavy artillery has been ftnt
from the frontiers towards Holland. Itp a f.
fed through the city in carriages covered with
hay. The artillery of the Hanoverians, with
150 waggon, loaded with bullets and bombs
took the fame road. A deserter from Paris'
confirms the reports of former defeners, th«
General Jourdain waits only for reinforce
mews of cavalry from La Vendee and the"
TX n th i. to attack all the po£
of the Combined Army at once He i
that a corps of 6000 men, confifling of fogil
who certainly contributed much to deliver
ing lip Toulon to the Ejighlh.
Yeltei'day fifteen w< re ihot, and we are
allured, thai; two hundred will undergo the
fame punilhment .
The fqOadron of the enemy seem at length
to have abandoned our caaft. Only five Eng
lilh (hips remain at anchor in the Bay of
Hieres, where they have ..landed the lick: as
soon as these lhall have been a little recover
ed, they will fail.
Januaiy 15.
We are here actively at work, caulking
and arming those vefiels which remain in the
port. The Representatives of the People
have just put all the carpenters and caulkers
in a Hate of requilition, and a great number
are now at work. Five veflels are ready for
sea, and we lhall soon have a squadron in the
Mediterranean, fufficient to sweep that sea
of all the enemy's lhips, which may there
remain.
tives from Holland, Liege and the Amlria
Netherlands had joined JourdainV army,
'and demanded to lead the column that is to
march to Bruifels."
LONDON, January 23.
By a letter from BrufTtls, we find that
last week Joutdan's army received a rein
forcement of 28,000 troops of the line
from Vendee—that 12,000 moie with an
immense train of artillery, were to join
him in the coifrfe of the week, and that
he was evidently preparing for the attack
of Cobourg en majfe.
January 31.
It is said that the Duke of Northumber
land charged at the head of the Portuguese
army in the late victory obtained over the
French. He luffered however from the pride
of Aristocracy; for he could not be inverted
with the chief command, for want of blood
Royal in his veins.
Yesterday MeflVs. Wiffin, Sylvester, and
Hunter, three mcflengers arrived at the
Secretary of State's of Office, with let
ters from the Duke of York, at Ghent.
By our French papers down to the 24th
in(t. our readers will fee that there are no
important accounts from the Continent.
The arities on the frontier are daily re
ceiving reinforcements, and threaten a for
midable attack on the prince of Cobourg,
but the plan of the attack is not yet io
clearly developed as to enable us to speak
with certainty 6t their operations.
The evacuation of Fort Louis is the
natural result of the former fucceflesrof the
French, and (hew? the utter breaking up
of the combined armies <?f the Rhine.
By a letter frenn Dover, dated yesterday
morning, we are infofmed that General
O'Hara and two other British officers,! ac
companied by a M. Dupre, had landed
there, and had immediately proceeded to
London. We know nothingof the truth
of this fadt; it is communicated to us by
a person resident at Dover, but who is Hot
our regular correspondent.
* Conjiilerations on the Loaii.
It is well known that the French are
preparing to attack the extensive line of
posts ®i Coboung en majfe, as they lately
did those of Brunfwick and Wurmfer ; if
they wait until the greatest part of the
troops from La Vendee, joiajourdain by
regular marches ; the attack may begin
about the loth of February ; but if these
troops are conveyed by port, (as has fre
quently been done,) or if they do not
wait for them, the attack may begin ear
lier. It is £(id that this attack will be
made by the combined armies of Hoche
and jourdain, assisted by all the troops of
the firft requisition, within one hundred
miles of the frontier ; the attack will ex
tend from the Rhine along the Mozelle to
1 reves, and from thence along the Austri
an frontier to Nieuport, a distance of at
least 300 miles. Cobourg has not at this
time more effefiive men to defend this ve
ry extensive line, than Brunfwick and
Wurmfrr had in the beginning of Novem
ber, to defend a line of only thirty miles
111 length, whilst Cobourg will be attacked
by .orces three times as numerous as those
that defeated Buinfwick and Wurmfer
If the French fho'uld be foiled in this at
tempt, they may lose twenty or thirty
thousand men or more, they will retire '
again behind their fortress, were Co
bourg cannot attack them, until he ha,
taken all those fortreffes, which will re
™']V >'f ars of uninterrupted success;
( Marlborough had not completely opened
'the frontiers in ten years) luch an event
w.fl therefore tend to prolong the war,
and Ihould rather depress our funds below,
than ra.fe them above, their present price!
iiut it is not easy to conceive how Co
bourg can prevent such numerous force,,
animated by their late fucccfTes, from pe
netrating into some part of so extenfnc a
liwe, and if any important port is taken,
the adjacerr. pe st s mult immediately fail
back, left their retreat be cut off
and at the Emperor Joseph destroyed all
the fortreffes in the Netherlands, 'except
Luxembourg and the Citadel of Antwerp,
inshighJy probable, that before the mid
die of March, Cobourg may be forced to
abandon the Auftnan Netherlands, and to '
Retire for fafety behind the Dutch fortref
* r , 1S dl ® cu,t to conceive the effect
that such a disaster would have on our
ed n Sth at t a vT/- When the market is
ed w.jh at least fiventun millions of Scrip
concentred in a few hands, many of them
una e to make a second payment, and all
of t,cm eager to fell. Should the Bank
krin *( Cf , refufc t0 lend moile y on the
i,.?' ie v° nce did the last war)
thedepveffion of the funds would be great
indeed! and if the Bank lead their $£the holders of fciip, they must in
the fame proportion withdraw it fiom our
diftrefled commerce. I" hich a situation
there will be only one confutation leit :
Cobourf's army having retired behind the
Dutch fortreffes for fafety, may contri
bute to the defence of that country ; this
will give us time to refleit; the eyes of
this nation may at tail be opened, they
•will then perceive the danger into which
they hav ¥ been led by his Majesty's minis
ters, and compel them to relinquilh a litu
ation for which they have proved them
selves so totally unfit. Peace may then be
made, for peace only can raise our funds,
or revive our drooping commerce. Peace
only caii save this country from ruin.
UNITED STATES.
NEWBEDFORD, April 7,
Thiirfdav, March 27 —Arrived, ship
Maria, of Nantucket, Captain Hill man,
from a whale voyage on thecoaftof Peru
820 hhls.— 730 sperm, 90 whale oil.
26th Dec. Captain Hillman left at the
Faukland Ides, the brig Caliqpc, Capt.
Shell, belonging to New-Yotk, with
17,000 feallkiiis— Nancy, John
Barnard, of Hudson, with 12,000 skins
—all'o Captdin Green, of New-York, in
a brig, filled with skins, and in readiness
to fail for Kamtfchatfkai, and from thence
to the Eaftindies.
In lat. 44, 29 —Coafl of Brazil, spoke
<h!p Diana, Capt. T. Long, gave in
formation of Captain Kerfev, in the (hip
Rebecca, of this place, on the coast of
Brazil, having obtained 900 bbls. oil.
Lat. 6. S.—On the coast of Peru,
spoke Capt, Judd Fitch of Nantucket,
in the -llritifh Tarr, of London, 1000
bbls.—all well—-Alio, Capt. Benjamin
Baxter, in a Ship from London, with
1000 bbls. sperm o I—and saw Captain
Daniel Coffin, in the {hip Venus, of Lon
don, with 1400 bbls. sperm oil.
PHILADELPHIA,.
APRIL 21.
The Delaware, Captain Truxton ar
rived yeiterday in the river from London,
which he left on the last of January and
Deal ten dnys after. By this arrival we
collett the following particulars:
Important dispatches are received from
Mr. Pinckney tp our government
French affairs, appear to be in a most
prosperous train. The Duke of Brunf
wick has resigned,. the Duke of York re
turned to England. A pafl'enger onboard
the Delaware, aflures us that he had a
conversion with Colonel Fox, three days
befoii his departure, who had just arriv
ed from the camp of the allies, and gave
it as his opinion, thatCobourg could not
maintain his ground against the fuoerior
forces commanded by Jourdan.
Serious fears were entertained in Eng
land of an invasion of the Carmagnoles,
who were, under the direction of d'Ar
con covidru&ing a fleet of gun boats, in
tended to fire hot-fiiot only and so built
as, by the m;a.is of hides, to protest the
imadere from tlie effect of mufquetry.
Admiral M'Bride was yet in the chan
ce! waiting for a wind.
I-ord Cornwallis had arrived from India.
A body of Heflian Troops have land
ed ;n England. The supply bill provides,
that 85,000 f.-amen be granted for the
yeai 1794, including 12,115 marines.
Thirteen millions are also voted for the
ferviccs-of the current year A bill was
brought into parliament January 28,
' for continuing the law now in force, for
regulating the trade, between England &
the United States. Mr. Wrlbertorce has
again- brought forward his motion for abo-
Kfiuog the Slave trade.
ASS J RACT of European Intelli-
G&AC&i from the London Morning Chro
of the 29th, 30tk, 3 1ft J a .
maty lajl.
In tiie French National Convention,
Jmiary 17, it was decreed that the linen
sf the fappreflcd Churches, should be ap
flfisci to. the use of the military Hospitals.
» fetter was read in Convention, the 18th
£om Cherburgh, which informed that sis.
tjf tmx fail of prizes ; all richly laden,
thief arrived irfthc road, a Convoy cap
nimf from the Englifh—ln the fame fit
ting* ten million lures was voted for the
firewwof the families of the National Sol
tfiwsv
Bamrs on the 2ill Jan. announced to j
the Conventioa that Fort Louis, now na
rsed.Fort Vauban was in the hands of the
Republicans. He concluded his speech
on that bccafion wjth the following words:
" Let our popular societies seize every
means of developing the crimes of the
British Government, and of proving that
its Minilter has familiarized national des
potism, and in a pompous manner has
fubllantiated the Royal Tyranny—lt is
the form of this "government, that you
ought to dellroy !"
According to the India papers, re
ceived by Captain Afhmead, the French
Cruizers in the Indian Seas, have been ve
ry fuccefsful—they have taken a Dutch
Eafl lndiaman, worth 100,000 pounds
sterling ; also a valuable Dutch Brig—an
English ship, the Recovery, Captain
Greenway, lanfomed for 30,000 dollais,
and the. Canton, a ship belonging to this
port, some of the crew, haying informed
the Captain of one of the Privateers,
that there was a large quantity of English
property on board.—lt is supposed some
of theie prizes were carried to the Mau
rititius, which the India papers fay, js
the only spot held by the French in Asia.
The brig Fair American, Capt. Angus,
left Antigua on the 24th ult. and informs,
that immediately on the arrival of the se
cond orders from England, a stop was put
to the condemning of American vefiels and
their cargoesthat the said orders arrived
there on the 1 jtli March, and at the moment
they arrived the schooner William Lindfay,
of Norfolk, — Williams, master, was
on trya!, and that the Judge was then mak
ing up his mind, when the orders came into
court and were read. He then adjourned the
court, and the schooner was afterwafds clear
ed, with several others that had been libelled,
amongst which was the brig Yorick, Capt.
M'Allifter, of this port. That the schooner
Eliza, privateer, was hauled up and fold,
with some others laying in the harbour of
St. John's. That the brig Nancy, William
Ilfly, master, was condemned after the se
cond orders arrived, for having naval stores
on board, and that the schooner La Fayette,
Jol'eph Wyatt, master, of Wilmington, N. C.
it was thought, would (hare the lame fate,
being in the fame predicament with the
Nancy.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 20.
From a Correfpondeni.
A gentleman just arrived from New
port, Rhode-Ifland-informs, tbat on Tues
day evening arrived there from Marti
nique,an Englilh tranfport,having on board
general the {count Rochambeau, with his
Suite, consisting of 8 officers. The trans
port was convoyed by the Vesuvius bomb
(hip, which left Newport the next morn
ing. By the Captaiu of the transport we
learn, that Fort Royal, Martinique, was
attacked and carried on the 2ill. and that
Fort Bourbon capitulated 0:1 the 23d of
March. In the Fort were 150 regular
troops, and about 800 mulattoes. It was
stipulated that the General and his Suite
should be sent to America, and the troops
to France.
The above Captain fays, that Fort Bour
bon iurrendered in consequence of the
English having discovered and destroyed
the pipes by which they received their wa
ter in the {jarrifon.
It was reported before the above vessels
failed that a French fleet and troops had
arrived somewhere in theWeft-Indies
and that the English were at present ill
manned, owing to their having garrisoned
the forts tVey had taken with the sailors.
By the vefTel arrived from Shelburne a
bout two days ago- we learn that the Fe
bruary mail from England was arrived at
Halifax : the letters brought by her may
be daily expetted.
The Comte de Rochambeau is expect
ed in this City on his way toPhiladelphia.
1 he Vesuvius (loop of war, we are told, is
returned to the Weft-Indies, end the Bri
tania transport which brought his Suite
from Martinico, is still at Newport Gen.
Grey's army is gone against the island of
Gaudaloupe.
Extract of a letter from an officer on board
the Ambuscade, dated Chefapeak Bay,
April 5, 2d year of the French Repub
lie, one and indiyifible.
" We have made twocruifes, but with
ittle fuccris, having taken only 3 prizes
2 of them English and tie other Spanish;
we expect with impatience the New-
York convoy,and have orders to hold our
selves in readiness to fail immediately on
their arrival.
• "We have found many friends in the
brave Americans of NtwlYork. Those
9C Norfolk and Hampton, have llicwn us
an attention no less flattering. We can
not quit the American shore without foine
regret, but Ihall have the pleasing fatisfac
tion on our arrival in France, of inform
ing our countrymen of the friendly con
duct of the Americans towards us.
" The late Triumphs of Liberty, how
ever, will make our return doubly aggre
able.
" The Frigate La Concorde, and a
Corvette, remain on this station."
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno» •*
YOljR correspondent of Saturday, L. E.
in language of triumph and abuse, stigma
tises Democratic Societies, as conspirators
against equality, because they are defigued to
acquire influence. , ,
The disguise is too thin, to conceal a cloven
foot. The influence he opposes, is the influ
ence 6f reason, and the equality he contends
for, is an equality in ig orance.' The human
mind, in proportion as it excludes this species
of influence, is fitted to bear the frauds, as
the body is to bear the burthens, of those
privileged orders, who teach ignorance, and
who yet extort for their tuition, an extrava
gant compensation.
L. E, allows to a citizen, the occasional
equality of a solitary vote, but if three citi
zens assemble to confer upon public affairs,
he exclaims in all the rage of ariftocratical
PK.de —" You are a club of conspirators—
mmd your own business"—Shoemaker to jour
This doctrine proposes a crusade in favor
of a political papacy, for the extermination
of ail writings and opinions, violating the
jure divino pretensions of the powers that be.
It may be thus epitomised.
" Several citizens must not confer and
deliberate upon public affairs, left their de
liberations Ihould influence one citizen. With
out conferences public affairs cannot be un
derstood, and 'f fe-veral citizens cannot pub
lish their political opinions, without being
chargeable with the insolent intention of in
fluencing others, a portion, a fmgle citizen
cannot do it. It would evince a monarchical
delign in the one, as it is a proof of aristo
cracy in the many. All men have minds,
but all men are not equally informed; and
any attempt of those informed (the well
born or paper men always excepted) to in
ftruift the uninformed, is, an insolent claim
of luperiority." Therefore the right of think
ing, and the right of voting, are all the
rights which equally allows, in the opinion
of this ariftocratical champion. According
to him, the art of printing, and the law to
secure to authors their own works, are em
blems of slavery, becaul'e they imply, that
one human being may impudently attempt
to inform others.
Indeed Mr. Fenno, the reservoir of arifto
cntical deception is, almost exhaufted,for this
last potion, appears so evidently to be inter
mingled with the lees, that the good taste
of the people of America (tho'it is unjufily
insinuated that they are somewhat base and
ignorant) will at once perceive its poisonous
quality. A DEMOCRAT.
A letter trom Havre of the 24th Jan.
to a gentleman in this city, informs, that
the National Convention has decreed the
release of the American shipping—but
whether they will be permitted to depart,
oaded, or not, the letter does not fay.
A paper of the I oth February, received
by Capt. Truxton, contains the British
Minister's budget and fpeech—from which
it appears that the war against France is
to be prosecuted with all the resources of
Great Britain. The Minister fays they
fight pro aris et focis —for their Altars
and Fire Sides.
From several refpedtable quarters we are
informed that the dispatches from the Ame
rican Minister at the Court of London just
received, do not as has been publi&ed, (hew
that the British adminiltration are unfavor
ably inclined to the United States.
The Minister plenipotentiary of the
French Republic, has not received any
official account of the recapture of Va
lenciennes. A report of that event was
brought by the veflel arrived at Norfolk,
from Rochfort—the printed accounts from
Fiance, by this veflel, are to the I ith of
February, at which time, General Jour
dan was preparing to make an aflault on
Prince Saxe Cobourg, with an army of
150,000 me .
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Ship Delaware, Truxton,
Schooner Experiment, Israel,
Endeavor, Smith,
Sloop Nancy, Barker*
Ann, Waite,
Brig Molly, Fennel, Barbadocg
Schooner Harriet, Roberts, Baltimore
B 0,0 K
A CHOICE COLLECTION,
Lately imported, and for sale at
No. 26, Spruce, oppoiite Dock
AT LOW PRICES,
Among which are the follomim :
FOLIO.
Chamberlain's History of London with plates
Paliadios Architecture, 2 vols, in one bift edi-
tion •
Tillotfon's Works, 3 vols, best edition
Rapin's History of England with Tindal's
Continuation, 3 vols.
Shaw's Travels thro' Barbary and the Levant
Poftlethwait's Oidionary of Trade and Com-
merce, 2 vols. 4-to.
Bruce's Travels, 5 vols, iine plates
Robertfon's History of America, 2 vols.
Account of Newtons Pliilofophy,
2 vols.
M'Knigbt's Harmony of the Gospels
Lowman on the Revelations
Led wick's Antiquities of Ireland
Locke on the Epistles
Glass's account of the Canary I (lands
Bell's Travels through Alia, 2 vols.
Tournefort's voyage to the Levant, 2 Vols
OCTAVO.
The annual Regiftcr, 34 vols, from its com-
mencement
Niebuhi's voyage to Arabia, 2 vols.
Hume's History ps Englaud, with Smplletts
continuation, 14 vols.
Crevier's Lives of the Roman Emperor's, 16
vols.
Pennant's Account of London
Reeves''; hft>ry of* the English Law, 4vols.
Blackftone's Commentaries, 4 vols.
Raynal's history of the Eaifc and Weft Indies,
7 vols.
?ll's beautiful edition of the Britifti Poets,
109 vols.
LIVRES FRANCOIS.
L'Ant.iqune expliquee avec Figures pat Mont-'
tauf>n 15 om. sol.
Les Ai'tiqunes de I'Egypte par Norden sol. a
vec D< fenption
Di&ionnaire H ftorique 9 torn o£V.
Theatre dc Voliaire elegt. relie 9 torn.
Hiftoire Romain par Rollini6tom.
Le Temple des Muses avec des beaux Tableaux.
CEuvrcs de Boilcau, Molicre, Helvetius&c.
With many others t quailv good,
AL s O,
An Excellent Quadrant,
warranted perlrd; a tew aciom,uc Pocket
perfpo&ive GlafTts ; a fine tuned Ge ( man Flute
6 keys and additioual joints ; and a few ele
gant Coloured Piinis.
April ai.
Treasury Department,
Revenue Office, Apt il 19, 1794.
NOTi.E is 1. eby giver, that prupofals,
will be received at tiieolfic of the Commit
fioner of tlie Revenue until the sixth of May
next inclusively, for the supply 0 f all Ra
tions, which may be r ed during the cur
rent year, at the city of Philadelphia, for
the reci uiting fe/vice.
The rations to !-e furniflied are to consist
o( the following ait tele., viz.
One poind of bead or flour,
Ow p una of l ee), 01 3 4 of a pound pork
H':li a 5111 of ruoiy brandy or wliiflcy
One quart of (ait, ")
Two quarts vinegar ( „
Two pound* /bap >P" 100 rat.ons
One pound candles J
April 2a-
NEW THEATRE.
Will be performed,
in Historical TRAGEDY, written by
Shakespeare, called
King Richard 111.
£ing Henry VI. Mr. Whitiock
Prince Edward, Mailer Warr-lt
Duke of York, Mailer T. VVai. .11
Duke of Glofter, Mr. Chalmers
Duke of Buckingham, Mr. Wignell ■
Earl of Richmond, Mr. Fennel
Duke of Norfolk, Mr. Moreton
Ratcliff. Mr. Frincis
Mr. Cleveland
> Mr. Mar/hall
'j Mr. Bliflett
.nantof the Tower, Mr. Finch
Stanley, Mr. Greer
i Mayor, Mr. Bate.'
rell, Air. De Moulii
"nt, Mr. Wane
/ueen Elizabeth, Mrs. Morr:'
Anne, Mils Oldfiel
Duchess of York, Mrs. Shai
With new Scenery, designed and execute*
atclift,
2ateiby,
f refiell,
Dxford,
Lieutenant of the Tower,
Lord Stanley,
Lord Mayor,
Tyrell,
Blunt,
Queen Elizabeth,
Lady Anne,
Duchess of York,
With new Scenery, designed
by Mr. Milborne.
End of the Tragedy,
A Pantomimical Dance, caSec
The Sailor s Landlady
Jack in Distress.
To which will be added,
A COMIC OPERA
The Son-in-Law.
London
St. Crbix
Newbern
Nantucket
St. Euftatia
•CLEARED.
S.
Street,
*mw f -&ni
mw& S 2\»
THIS EVENING
April 21.<
George Brmghurft,
COACH-MAKER,
j Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and fifth
Streets, adjoining the •Episcopal bur)iug
ground, 1 .
Takes this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
4jd requ?ft'ng their fut arc favors, as well as
tho'e'm the* public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
foorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons' with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windl'or fulkeyi ird chaits, and liurnefs
of every description, in the neatest and neiveft
falhioa now prevailing >0 the United States.
And as he has a quantity ofthe best seasoned
wood by him, ai'd capital workmen, he .has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaftion to thole who please to employ h>"V
He has for sale, several carriages almoA
finiflied, fttfh as coachees, an Italian windlor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phseton (or
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a tailing
top.
*0*
fold on Commiflion.
Carriages
Philadelphia) Jsfß* 6, *794
Just Published,
AND TO BE. SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone house, No. South Second
Street, J
Historical Collections ;
COtpISTItMJ OF
STATE PAPERS,
And oth?r authentic Documents, intended as
mater ials for an HiTtory or the United States '
of America.
BY EBtNEZER HAZARD, A. M.
In two large quarto volumes, price ten dol-
Ursin bqardij. a - , -
Subscribers will be furnimed with the 2d.
volume on.payi»v» three.dollars and a quarter
—-having paid five dollars and a quarter on
receiving the firft.
This (econd volume comprehends, among
Otter intereltiag particulars, a complete co
pv of the Records of the United Colonies ot
N. "England, in which the conduct of the com
miflioners relpeaing the general concerns ot
the colonies—the neighbouring Indians —and
the Dutch at Manhattans (now New Yolk) is
jarticulirly detailed.
» ' Materials are colle&ed fnfficient to
Wro a THIRD VOLUME, The time of
jobbing will dep-'nd on the encouragement
to be derived from fubferiptions which will be
received by Thomas Dob foil, Philadelphia ;
fere. Libbcy, Portfmftutb, New Hampihir.;
rhonias & Andiews, & Dav. Weft.Bollon; It
,ia Thomas, Worcefttr ; Isaac Beers, New-
Haven; Tisnoriiy Giecn, New London ; Jacob
R.'cha>d!bn, Newport; John Carter, Provi
isp.ee ; Hugh Gaine, Thomas Allen,; hud
Samuel Campbell, New York ; Fred ritk
'raigj-Wilrningion, Delawaie; (aii.es Rict,
Baltimore; Mr. Lindfey, Norlolk ; David
-iendcrfon, Ftxderickibui't} John Gramma'
'rterfburg ; Augustine Davi', Richmond ; 1
C Martin, Newbern, N. C. John Bradley
Vilmington ; and William Price Young,Cha
eflton. . t ,
April'*
PROPOSALS
For Printing by Subscription,
An Original Novel,
In Four Volumes, duodecimo,
Dedicated, by Permission, to Mrs. Bingham,
ENTITLED,
Trials of the Human Heart.
By Mrs. ROWSON,
Of the New Theatre, Philadelphia, Author
of Victoria, Inquisitor, Charlotte, Fille
At Chambre, &e. &c.
u If there's a pow'r above us,
« (And ttiat there is, all Nature cries aloud
il Thro' all her works) he mull delight in
'• virtue,
ii And that which he delights in, must be
" happy."
41 The<oul, fecur'd in her exi(lence,fmiles
<i At tlie drawn dagger, & defies its point"
CONDITIONS.
J. The work to be printed with a ne»t type
en good paper.
JI, Priie to subscribers four dollars bound,
one half to be paid at the time of subscribing.
111. The subscribers' names will be prefixed
as patrons of the undertaking.
»,* Subscriptions are received by the Au
thor, the corner of Seventh and Chefnnt
streets, Meflrs. Carey, Rice, and Dobfon,
Philadelphia— Mr. Green, Annapolis—Mes
srs. Allen, Berry, and S. Campbell, New,
York—MeiTrs. Weft, Thomas and Andrew
Blake, and Lark in, Boston— Mr. Hafvel,
Vermont—MefTrs. Rice, and Edwards, Bal
timore—Mr. W. P. Young, Charleston.
April i.. . mw&f3ws
Just Imported,
In tte Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Petersburg in Ruflia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
' RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTJLES.
AND'FOR SALE By
John t)onnaldfon,
No. 12, Waliiut-ftreet.
March 4,1794. drwjuwtf
The Ground Plan
OF THE
City and Suburbs
OF
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM AQII/AL SVR'/ET.
IT is with pleafurs that £M publiiher has to
inform his fubfcfibersand the public iii £ en '"
ral, that the plate s now under the hands ol
the engraver, and in greater forwardness than
was at firft contemplated. At the fame time
he begs leave to rtinu.d theni, th<>t fublcrip
tion papers are still open at moftof the noted
book-ftmes in the city and that he hopes
from the whole of them tobc enabled to fo,nn
such S fifpeftable catalogu-- 6f naini*, as wilt
do a credit to the -work f as well as afford a
reafooable encouragement to the undertilccr.
Those who a e delirousof further informa
tion are requested to call on
Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, Mai k i i reet.
tn&t! tf
April 14.
scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, oh 266,000
Dollars, deducing IJ per Cent, from
the Prices—this Lottery consist of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
14,539 Prizes And 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Directors of the Society for cftablilhing
Ufcful Maniifafluris, having resolved to
erect LOTTERIES lor raiting On e. He n d k iD
Thousand Dol 1. a ks, agreeably loan Aa of
the Legilhture of the State ol New-Jersey, have
appointed the following persons to luperintend
and diretk the drawing ot the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rntus King, Herman Le Roy, James
Watson, Richard Harrll'on, Abijah Hammond,
>nd Corneliui Ray, of the city ot New-York—
Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthew M;Con*
iel and Andrew Bayard, of the city of Phila-
Jelphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
flias Bo'udinot, General Elias Dayton, Jamts
Parker, John Bayard, Do&or Lewis Donnam,
Jamuel W. Stockton, Jolhua M. Wallace, Joseph
Sloomfield, and Elitba Boudinot, of
ey, who offer the following Scheme of a Lot
ery, »rtd pledge themfclv.es to the public, thai
hey will take every assurance and precauiion in
heir power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from tirae to time, as received, into
he Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
emain for the purpofeo! paving Priz s, which
hall be immediately difchargcd by » check
ipon one of the Banks.
SCHEME:
1 Piizeof 20,000 Dollars is 20,000
\ 10,000 * 10,000
mStthjtn
'•vi -
ICO
goo
!?<*>
2000
3600
8100
14,539 P"" 1 - 462,000
23,461 Blanks, tirll drawn number, 2,000
Laftdrawn number, 2,000
mvv
38.000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
The drawing will commence, under the in
fpeftiin of a Committee of the Superintendants,
as soon as the Tickets are sold 9 oi which timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendantshave appointed John N.
Camming, of Newark, Jacob R. Hardenberg,
!of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea* of
Tienton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample (ecurity for discharging the
trust reposed in then).
In order to fecurethe pun&ual payment
of the "Prizes, the Superintendants of tiie Lottery
have dire&ed that the Managers shall each enter
into bonds i"n 40,000 dollars, with four fufficietot
fccuritics, t'o perfortn their inftruftions, the sub
stance of which is
I. That whenever cither of the Managers
shall receive the sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he (hall imnidiately place the fame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit ot the Governor of the Society, and suCh
of the Superintendants as live in the city where
the monies are placed, to remain there lintil she
Lottery is drawn, for the payment of the Prizes.
11. The Managers to take fufficient fecunty
for any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
refponublje for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Vlonies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ftra£b of which (hall be feat, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Patejfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle
men, information will be given where tickets
may be had.
February 24. , tn&ftf.
TO BE SOLD,
An<J entered upon the firft ot May,
Johnson Hall:
Lying in the Mohawk, country, (lateof New
Voik, Formerly the feat of Sir William John
son, containing about seven hundred acres of
land, which js of the very best quality ; toge
ther with theftock, and farming utenftis. The
buildings are large ami convenient, and fit for
a gentleman** feat. The payments will be made
easy, on good fccunty. For further particulars
enquire of George Metcalf, Esq. on the premis
es, of Silas Talbot, Esq. at Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Brothers, in New York, or
of the iubferiber in Providence.
PhtUd. March 26
5,006
2,000
\jCOO
5 00
100
5®
-.•Q '
' '?*»
The noted EJlate, called
Jabcz Bowen.
mw&lim
Stock Brokers Office,
No. ,6, Wtll-Urcct, New-York.
t r ln« lerviciti Thole Who m»y pl" f s
,o"t v Tr bun wiih their bufuieU, may dc P cnd
i.^dwuhchemnioftfidc-
Ht b^ lf .io, C n h Vhihd C l P hi 3 , Boston or »y
heU^S^K y
Philadelphia, Marchi, »794-
fUST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market Jlreet,
iHE FIKST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography :
Geographical, Hijlorical, and
Commercial Grammar;
And urefeht Hate of the several
NATIONS of the world.
CONTAIN 1 NC, I
I Th* figures, motions, and distances of
the planets, *cco,dii»< to the Newtonian sys
tem and the latest observations.
2. A general view of the earth, considered
a, a planet; with several ufeful geographical
definitions and problems.
3 The grand divffirtKS of the globe into
lind and water t continents and islands.
4. The situation and extent of empires,
kingdoms, states, provinces and
5 Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, metals, minerals, nitural cori
ofities, feSs, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
atid lakes. .
6. The birds and beasts peculiar to each
7. Observations on the changes that have
been any where obferred upon the face ot na
ture since the most ear|? periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations J then
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
nue*, taxes, naval and military strength.
9. The genius, m3nneis, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
10. Their language,learning,aits,fciences,
manufactures, and commerce.
11. iThe chief cities, ft'rufturts, ruins, and
artificial curiosities
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
distances of principal places ♦ romPfiiladetphia.
To which are adiltd^
1. A Geographical Index, wish the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Tabli ot the Coins of all nations, and
tlieir value in dollars and cents.
3. A Chronological Table of remarkable
events, from the creation to-the present time.
10,6-
IO.OCX
to,o<jq
i#»,ooo
10,000
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Efq-
The Astronomical Part corre&ed by
Dr. RittXnHouse.
To which have been added,
The late Discoveries ofDr. HekscHELL,
and other eminent Astronomers.
15, boo
20,000
JOjOOO
36,000
81,000
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrected, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
Tlie firft volume contain? twenty-one
and Charts, besides two Astronomical. Plates,
viz.
t. Map tif the world. 2. Chart of the world.
3* Europe. 4* Asia. 5* Africa. 6. South-
America. 7. Cook's difcoveriet. 8. Coun
tries round the north Pole. 9* Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway. 10. Seven limited Pro
vinces. »». Austrian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. i 2. Germany. *3* Seat of war
in France. i*4- France divided intodepait
meiits. 15. Switzerland. 16. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
18. Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 20. Weft-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22. Ar
miltiry Iphere. 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
the prers, will be given the following Maps :
1. Russia in Europe and Asia.
S. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
"4. Poland.
5. China.
6. Hindoftan.
7. United States.
8. British America.
9. Scate of NVv-H unpfhirc.
10. State of MafTachuletts.
j it. State of Connecticut.
j 2. State of Rhode-Island.
13- State of New-Yofk.
14- State of New-Jersey.
ij. State of Pennsylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
t7- State 'of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19. State of Ken tucky.
2b. State of North-Carolina.
21. Tennelfee Government.
22. State ofSouth'Carolina.
23. Stale of Georgia.
TERMS.
1. This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume on
dfclivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
'"S> cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the succeeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, ara quar
ter dollar cach, or else, when finiftied,- at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The fublcrlptlon will be raised on the firft
day of June i794i to fourteen dollars, ex
cluhve of binding.
5. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be foWat
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
6. The names of the fubferibers will be pub-
-•
TrtlmTo* uZh**
difrefotat to the re»4er?» undetttanwnil t
to»W ,
"rhi'emendations and additions which are
made in this work,are innumerable,and oexui
in eve'y page. The public are refer" ed to
the preface lor a flight Iketch of a few of
111 The publilher takes the present opportu
nity of returning his mod fmcere thanks to
those refpeftable characters who have favored
him with documents for improving the maps
of several of the states. He requerts a conti
nuance of their kindi.efl; and hopes that such
public spirited citizens, as are poffepd of h
milar documents, will favor him with their
affidance in perfecting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement witn
which he has been favored, has pelted
in his bread the warmed fentimentt ot grat -
tude —sentiments which time will not efface.
He pledges himfelf to the citizens of the
United States, to I'pare neither pains nor ex
pense to render the prtftnt edition oi Guthrie s
Geography improved, deferviig of their pa
tronage.
Just Published,
n one handsome volume, unio. Priae $t
AND FOR. SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franillh's Head, No. 41, Second
Strut,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and onthfc
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Kaarlem.
Corrected and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
ProfeflTor of Moral Philosophy, and the Lav/
ol Nature, and of Ecclefiaftica! HiftoiJ ;
and Minister of the Englilh Chuich at U
trecht.
Aliquid semper ad communtm utilitatem as-
CICE&O.
The Firfl Arrterican Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality, if right
ly understood, is the only basis 011 which
universal justice, lacred order, and perfect
freedom, can be firijily built, and permanent
ly secured. The view of it exhibited in th;s
essay, at the fame time that it reprefles tlie
insolence of office, the tvrSnny of pi ide, and
the outrages of oppression ; confirms, 'n the
moll forcible manner, the necessity of'fnbor
dinatiOn, and the just demands of law ful an
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftin&ion,
draws more closely every tocial tie, unites in
one harmonious and jufily proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. tufcftf
Henry Rape _ State of Maryland.
v. ) High Court of Chancery,
BenjaminGaither > March sth. 1794.
and X v
Basil Gaither
The Complainant dates
in his bill that the defendants Benjamin Gai
ther and Basil Gait her were seized in fee as
tenants in common of a tract of land In Fre
derick County, called Hammond's Strife
that be.ng so seised, Basil executed a power
of attorney to Benjamin authorizing him to
feJl his, the said Basil's interest in the fa : d
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin fold
the said land to a certain William Gait her for
the consideration of fix hundred poundswhich
hath been finee paid, that the said William
hath afligned to the Complainant Henry Rape
the bond executed by the said Benjamin for
the conveyance of t.ie said land : The Com
plainant now further dates (and so appears
to the Chancellor) that the defendants are
nan-residents of the llate of Maryland, and«
herefoie out of tfyc reach of the process of
this court.
It is therefore adjudged and ordered, that
the Complainant procure a copy of this or
der to be inserted in the newspaper of Angell
and SulJvan, and >n the United States Gazette
at lead three weeks successively, before the
twenti. rh day of May next ; to the intent
that the Defendants and all others, who may
conceive themselves interested in the piefmf
es, may have notice to appear in this courf,
1 on or before the-third T-uefday in September
next, to lhew cause wherefore a decree should
not pa(f for vefting-irr the Complainanr aconj
pete'lejal title to the land aforefaid.
Test
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. Con.
tuth&«3'.r
•March >8
A FEW POUNDS
O F
VANILLA,
FOfc SALE BY
Louis Ofmont.
April 19.
djt.