j? Y E N I N G AD V E R T I S E R.
[No. 10; of Vol. V.] Monday, April 14, 1794. [Whole No. 564.]
For Amsterdam,
The new feft-f«ting, copper
■k jKiL bottooiejl SHl**
•gft ADRIAN A,
aSSi'USt JC. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tend for a Liverpool Trader, will fad with
all convenient speed. For freight or paiTage,
having excellent accommodations, apply ° n
board at Walnut itreet wharf, or to
THOS. W JOHN KETLAA D.
N. B. PaUeagers will be landed in Eng
land if requireJ. , .
March 6, 1794- -
For Ncrfelk £2° Fredericks burgh,
LITTLE SALLY,
Jp HN E arl ' Matter.
A staunch gQo<l yefTel, will fail in a fe\y
diys. For freight or p Cage, apply to the
maimer on byjrd at CJl(t;fnut ftrect wharf, or
t0 JOSEPH JXTHOXT & SON.
March 31.
"For Salc^or^C liarter,
IS a stout good veff-'l, about two years qid,
ljurthen 2-jJ tpn«, hat only made three voy
ages, and may l?e feiit to I'ea at a Imall ex- |
pence. She may be fee 11 at Vine-street Wharf,
and the terms nnrle known Hv application to
JWHARTON © LEWIS.
March Hi.
Just Imported,
Id the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amllerdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
t Afew bales Holland.JJuci,
* Ditto Oanqb:irgs>
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, -viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious Jites •
Steatbing Paper,
Swedes Iran, square and fiat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Duttfh Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, bc.&c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
Zhou!J application be made within a few days ;
othtrwife Jhe will taie freight for Amster
dam.
March r, 1794. d—tf
to BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation,—also a Country Seat
within 6 milesof tlie City, with 9 acres of
laod, or 42 acres of Jand and meadow, the
IJoufe 1; not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in lize, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
January 23 m&th—tf
The Profits arifwg from the following publi
cation art for the benefit of the Poor.
Just published, printed by R. Aitken and
Son, and fold by J. Crukfhank, W. Young
T. Dobibn, and the other Bqokfellers,
MINUTES
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed on the 14th September 1793, by
the Citizens of Philadelphia, the NOl thert»
liberties, and the Diftrift of Southwark,
to atrend to and alleviate the fufferings of
the affliftt'd with the Malignant Fever,pie
valent. in the City and its vicinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
A lift of persons admitted into the Hospi
tal at Bu(h-Kil|, (hewing the times of their
admission, death and discharge.
Number of Houses, Deaths, &c. in the
* • refpeftive streets, alleys, and courts in the
city of Philadelphia, Northern Liberties,
Diftrift of Southwatk.
A lift of the Interments in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia. Northern
Liberties, and Diftrift of Souihwark, with a
meteorological accouut of the weather.
A fuinmary of donations in cafli and provi
fious, received from sundry pprfons and pla
ces, for the ufjof the poor and afflifteH.
April 2. d3w
advertisement.
OF the money robbed from the mail near
Bal imorr, by Doctor Gant, I Jo dollars wei®
afterwards sent by an unknown baud) to the
Postmaster at Baltimore, who tranfinitted
the fame to the General Post Oifice. The fuf
ierers by that robbery are delired to state the
amount of their losses refpeclively, and trans
mit the fame, with the origiual letters of their
correspondents /'where recovered) or other
evidence thereof to the General Post Oifice,
before the firft day of June next, immediate
ly after which a dividend will be made among
the claimants.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Poji Majler General.
Gen. Pod Office, ApriJ 4, 1794 iaw6w
*
Loft last Night,
]3et\yecn Second and Seventh streets, a
Red Morrocco Pocket Book,
Gataini g a few private letters and a bill
of exchange, dated Charleiton, - —»
drawn by John Minnick on Pnilip Care, in ia
vor of Sims White, which can be of no u r e
to any one but the owner, whoever has found
the fame, and will deliver it at Israel Israel s
Inn, (hall be hand.'omely rewarded.
April 9 .
FOR'SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
fuptrior quality in pipes, imported in the ihip
\Vil -nington.
OLD SHERRY WINE of the firft quality
in quarter ca(kt, imported in the brig Nancy
capt. Gwin. f'r. m Cadiz.
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs ol
RAISINS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIFFE WINES,in pipfs
hhds. and quarrer cslk', imported in the Ihip
Thomas, capt. Skinner.
A i'eiy quarter caPrC; of old particular bill
of exchange IyiADIEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who has also, just arrived and tor sale
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lijbon Salt.
A quantity of empty BAGS for sale.
April J. diw xv&rsim.
.■■■ 1 ■ -
IMPORTED
In the Brig George and Harriot, from
Havre de Grace,
AND FOR SALE BY
Louis Ofmont,
A PERFECT
Assortment of Hanging Paper,
high coloured and ; lain.
White (ilk Stocking*, high dressed and put
up English fafhion.
The handsomest artificial Flowers and Fea
thers.
Sume Looking Glass Plates to be fold by the
cafe.
Afjw hampers of Champaigne wine fix
years old.
ALSO,
An elegant parcel of
Bearikin Muffs,
And very beautiful Silk Cloaks, which on
account of the season will be fold low, and $4|
a long credit.
LIKEWISE
42 pipes Madeira wine,
aud a few casks of Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
He will have for sale,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn hats, fans and cambricks, claret in
cases, a quantity of window glass well sort
ed of all iize r , and a few paii" of remarkably
LookingGlafTes framed, ail arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
March 22. drf
, Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street :—
A few Bales ot Ruflia Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale ot low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchong "I*, a, Hyson and
Tonkay, diito.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Brimstone,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. 20. 3taw6w
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank, of the United States, ctnd Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of Aorth America,
several of which have appeared in circulation
within a few days pcift ; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, hut may
be dtftingui/hed by the■following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
j tbe genuine paper.
Toe O. m the word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters oi that word,
Co that a line extended from the top of the (),
to touch the top of the M would extend con
siderably above the range oi the whole word.
In the word United the letters-are nariow
era.id closer together than the reft of the bill
The i and yin the word promise are not
parallel, the f inclining riiucl) more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the strokes
of all. the Letters are stronger and the devi.e
in the margin isn>uch coarser and
appeal s darker than in the true bi!l% Some
©I the counterfeits bear date in 179i"-Where
as the? Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were iftued in
that year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America•
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. tor their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of-the counterfeit Five Doila> Note?
above deferibed ; the engraving is bcite' exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the wovd7affl
/v, in the bo<Jy of the bill, are in number thir
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
Thf word Company is much like the farjie
word in the Five Dollar B Hs is defer ibed a
bove, th£ c being less chart them, and ©thers j
fallowing.
There is no stroke to the / in the word Worth
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Twenty., to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and the go
ing below them.
The Signature J Nixon, has the appear
ance of Mng written with lamp-black and
oil, and differs from the other inksufedin
prnting the bills and the earner's iignattire.
It is tuppofcd these forgeries were commuted
in ferae ot the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have cowie from
thence, and two, persons have been apprehend
ed in Virginia, on suspicion ot being the authors
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to arty Person Or Persons who shall
difcover'and prosecute to conviction the fevrral
offenders of the following defciiptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufactured |
the paper on which the' Bills Jfre printed:
The person or persons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
fcvery person who has acted as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and-utter-,
ing the said bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Prefiden*
of the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, Prdident of the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
peftive Boards.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794.
Excellent CLARET,
In hog (!* cads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA
In pipes, hoglheads and quarter cafits,
FOll SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. til, South Front Ureet.
Jan. 2, »794- dtf
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Maiket-Street,
An KiTay on Slavery,
DcGgned to exhibit in a new point ot view
iis etfefts on morals, induflry, and the peace of
society. Soijjte fa£U and calculations are ottered
to prove the labor of he'emen to be much more
produflivc than that ot flavcs ; t'bat countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the n ct ffdiy concltiflon, thai
ilavery is imfrolitic as* well *s unjajl.
Price 25 Gents. dtf
February 15.
The following memorial fiom Samuel
Hopkins, was read in the House of Re
presentatives of this Commonwealth,
the 19th inft.
To the Speaker and Members of the Af
iembly of Penfylvania : ,
THE Subscriber apprehends he has at
great labour and expence much improved
on the common mode of mannfa&uring
pot and pearl allies, for which improve
ment the United States have granted him,
an exclusive right for a term of years.
The advantages over the former is set forth
by divers Certificates, one of which figncd
by David Rittenhoufe, Doctor Rush and
otheis,hath been published. By a Tarietyot
improvements in the application of the
principle, he apprehends he has so far Am
plify'd it, that at small expence it may be
conduced by women or children, altho'
larger the works greater the profits retak
ing in proportion. In a work that maycoft
about 12 dollars to be worked by a boy of
12, or 13 years old, with attention, may
make 150 weight of pearl allies, and with
good house ashes at gd per bulhel, wood at
20s per cord ; the pearl a(hes so made when
fold at the common price of 50s per hund
red,leaves about 40s for his week's labour.
The process is allowed to be easy and fami
liar, one of those small works is now -Sand
ing at his house in Arch Street No.43,and '
is fiee for infpe&ion to any that inclines
to visit it; he therefore wilhes a fuitabje
Committee may be appointed, one or more
members of each County to examine the •
fame, fee some experiments performed,
and should it be thought after every neces
sary examination, this improvement prefer
able to tlie former, and a geheral benefit
to this State, in bringing foiward this ma
• 9 o
nufacttiry in which little heretofore have
been done, he willing to relinquish his afor
faid right,as far as relates to Pennsylvania,
for such a compensation as the merits of it
may appear reasonable todefire.
SAMUEL' HOPKINS.
2d Mo. 19, 1764.
A work that may cost about 300 dollars
when compleat with 4 large boilers worked
by 2 fires, 2 hands may make as much
pearl ashes as common black salts, perhaps
18 or 20 cwt. per week, it may require
about 7 cord of wood. The quantity
made in a certain given time, will always
depend on the attention of the workmen,
the size of the furnace, the quality of the
ashes, See. See.
The Committee appointed Feb. 25,laft,
| on the memorial of Samuel Hopkins,
made report, which was read as follows,
viz :
The Committee to whom was vefered
the application of Samuel Hopkins to the
Legislature, on the fubje& of an improve
ment discovered by him in the manufac
tury of pot and bearl ashes, beg leave to
to report —That they think favourably of
the prayer of the said applicant, and aie
of opinion that it will beadvantageous for
the State to have the mode invented by
him, rendered of general utility, by the
purchase of his exclusive privilidge in the
discovery, which they understand may be
effe&ed on very moderate terms; they
therefore reco|Timend the following resolu
tion :
Rtfolved, That a Committee be ap- ,
pointed to bring in a bill to grant the sum
of £ to Samuel Hopkins, in re
ward of his discovery, and as a compensa
tion for the surrender of his exclusive ri
to said improvement, within the limits of
this commonwealth.
Ordered to He on the table.
Congress of the United States.
Houje of ReprefentafivK
Mr. Giles's reply to Mr. W. Smith's ob
servations on the passing of the naval
armament bill.
( Continued. J
Mr. Giles proceeded to observe, that
having fiiewn the right of reprisal to be
' conformable to the lavrs of nations, an-iilearly jutlyVet! by the ex rllisg of
things between the United States and
Great Britain, he would now -submit a
few remarks upon the policy of exereifing
the right at this time. Under the exist
ing circumstances of the United States,
he thought the policy of the measure, was
recommended by the clearest and most ob
vious principles. The relation of things
between the United States and Great Bri
tain, is filth, as to demand a final and
unequivocal explanation 5 whether the pro
posed measure be adopted or not. In all
parts of this committee, in all parts of the
United States, a definitive explanation is
called for. The present Rate of things
between the two nations, cannot long ex
ist.
It is to be hoped, that the tone of lan
guage to be used by the United States,
Will be adjulted to the nature of the inju
ries tliay have sustained. Acquiescence
and fu'omiflion, are no longer recsommend
ed. Hence matters are already reduced
to extremities, and all the irritations alrea
, dy exist, which can grow out of an ex
treme state of things. The proposed mea
sure can add nothing to these irritations.
The question therefore appears to be re
duced to this, Whether in demanding an
explanation and attempting negociation,
we (hall use all the means in our power, to
compel t favorable iflue ? Or whether we
(hall uiijoly supplicate for jmlice ; and
ftiffer the most effedlual means of compul
sion to elude our grasp ? He did not mean
here, to recapitulate the conduct of Great
Britain towards us, he hoped it was fuffi
ciently imprefied upon the mind of every
gentleman in the committee, but after the
recent experience of her conduct, it would
be madness, it would be folly, to address
our complaints to her justice or modera
tion.
He thought it would be wife to lay hold
of every thing in our power, and hold it
as a pledge for her good behavior. This
measure would put us in the belt possible
iituation for negociation. It would au
thorise an appeal to her ir.tereft, which Hie
cou'.d not rdift. He begged the commit
. tee to reflect upon,the argument which
had been used here, to prevent a late mea
sure which had been adopted, and which
had been renewed on the present resolution,
that a great value in property, belonging
to the citizens of the United States, was
in the power of the Britift, and that any
counteracting measures would place it in
extreme hazard. This feeined to him, to
have been the most prevailing argument
which had been urged, and for some time
was irrefiftable. If then the argument
{hall hrtve been applied with so much force
here, with h6w much more force will it
be applied in Great Britain, when they
find that the property of the individuals of
that nation is placed in jeopardy here, and
that it greatly exceeds in value the whole
of the property which they have infaniouf
iy detained and condemned. Belides, if
in the e\ent of aywar, it {hould be a war
of property, as is every where contempla-
V'd, Great Britain will find, that the war
will be commenced upon very unequal
ternis. Viewing this measure therefore,
as to its probable tendency to peace or
war, he thought the probability greatly
111 favor of its producing peace. When
Great Britain {hall find that (he is enter
ing into a contest upon unequal terms,
when fhc (hall find that it may terminate
in a permanent loss of the advantages of
her cotnmerce with the United States,
when {he (hall fee before her a precipice,
into which if {he (hould once enter, (he
never can return ; she would pause before
(he adted ; {he would take time to count
the probable loss and gain ; and peace
would be the infallible consequence of
ftich deliberate calculations. This mea
sure will convince Great Britain, that the
United States pofTefs a knowledge of their
rights, aconfidencc in their ability, and a
determination in their difpolition, to af
i rt and support them.
A gentleman (Mr. Smith, S. C.) ob
served yesterday, that a pacific fyltem,
would'probably attach the people of Great
Britain to the United States, and detach
them from their own government. The
gentleman ought to recolkft, that a puli
lanimous conduct, will not. It is with
nations as it is with individuals, to beref
pected by others, they {hould refpeft
themselves. The fame gentleman remark
ed, that a change of ministry might be
expe&ed, and advised waiting for the e
vent. The idea is as undignified, as it is
chimerical.
(To le continued. J
Foreign Intelligence.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Saturday, Dec. 21.
The following letter was read from Le
quinio, Representative of the People at
Rochfort:
« Dec. 14th, 1793.
" 1 have just given orders, which the
Moderates will perhaps think barbarous.
I ought to give you an account of them.
Between 4 and 500 banditti taken prison
ers, cram theprifonsof Fontenay le Peu
ple. I just laarn by an extraordinary cou
rier whom the Administrators difpatehed,
that a part of the army of Charette, con
fiding of between 10 and 12,000 men,
and which forced some of our advanced
pods, was advancing against this canton,
and that they (the Adminiltrators) were
afraid left the rebels (hould make a second
attack upon their town. I gave orders
that all the banditti pi ifoners be (hot with
out any form of trial, as soon as the ene
my (hall make their appearance.
" I have founded this sanguinary or
der upon the following grounds : On the
20th inltant I was in the bosom of a
meeting of the Deputies of the adjacent
Popular Societies at Fontenav le Peuple,
who came hither to propagate Republican
principles, and to develops the patiiotic
fire necessary when the people indulged
mirth and fraternity. Those prisoners
were like? to have strangled the other per
sons who inhabited the prisons. The mu
nicipality informed me of the danger. I
hajtened to the spot, and went firit down
to the dungtons, where I blew out the
brains of the molt audacious: two others
fliall pay with their lives the alarm they
have occasioned—the reft of the order
behaved again quietly.
" I organized immediately a Military
Committee to judge all those ruffians,
much more expeditious than the Criminal
Tribunal, which in despite of itfeif, is
embarraficd by a thousand formalities :—
Because I thought it neceflary, in cafe of
an outward attack, to deltroy at the very
lift moment,' and without mercy, that
focus of iniurre&ion which was rendered
ltill more audacions and infinitely dange
rous by the vicinity of the army, especial
ly in tiiis city, where fanaticiim and aris
tocracy are fai from being annihilated.—
Tacte are the motives of my conduct: If
you blame it—do justice, at leak, to my
intention.
" 1 mult, in other projects, inform yon,
that unlcls you adopt such measures, you
Will never terminate the war of La Ven
dee ; it is the abominable moderatiim of 1
the Administrations which formed La
Vendee—and the moderatiim of the Ad
ministrators and the Generals, loiter it.—
I wrote every where to take no more pri
soners ; and if 1 may be allowed to speak,
1 Ihould with the fame measures to be a
dopted in all ihe armies. As our ene
mies would then \iie reprilalt, it would
then be impoiuble tor us to have any cow
ards. Such a decree would, I believe,
effect the salvation of France. I leave
you to judge if I am in the wiong.
" With regard to La Vendee, this
measure is indispensable, if you mean to
make an end of this war. Eveiy perlon
is chilled in that country, as all the Ad
ministrators are to be renewed : But you
ought ta fend Republicans thither; tor
there are none but Honest men to be
found, and those gentlemen advance like
a tortoise. Meanwhile, the people here
are what they are elsewhere, efl'entially just
and good; and since my lhort tour, I
have been able to discover that they are
willing to receive all the Republican im
prefiions, if they be inculcated by frank
nefs and true civifm.
(Signed) « LEQUINIO."
Reicired to the Committee of Public
Welfare.
From Charleston Papers to the Third
tnjlant.
MANHEIM, January 6.
Yesterday evening, after a brisk cannonad
ing, which took place between Irankcrua,
and Borbernheim, the Pruflians retired be
yond Worms. In consequence, the French
entered that place to day. It is believed that
the Duke of Bruniwick will pass the Rhine
at Oppcn-heim, in order to take the polition
on that fide of the river, and join the army
of General Wurmfer, which extends from
that city to the Brifgau.
January 7. Hj
We learn that the lrench haTe entered
Worms. Their advanced posts extend to
Orthofen, Werthoferi and Berthem. The
prince' of Hohenlohe is at Gunterblum, and
the Duke of Brtmfwick is at Oppenheim.
A part of his array has just recrofled "the
Rhine.
The French the day before yesterday en
tered Kiichtlm Bolentler, where they hnpo
fed a contribution of 90,0000 florins.—The
grand bailiwick of Neuftadt is to pay 400,000
livres. The beiutiful chateau of the elector
was yesterday entirely pillaged and laid waite.
At Frankental the French have exacted the
'following articles : 150 sacks of oats every
day; 3 waggons of hay, and jooo lbs. of
bread, besides a contribution of 150,000 li
vres. As this small town cannot comply with
so exorbitant a demand, it is probable that
it will be pillaged. At Oggerfheim the re
publicans made a general plunder of -every
thing they could lay their hands upon. They
have taken post at Mundenheim and Frifen
heim, where they have begun to entrench
themselves, but the Auftrians are ere<fting on
their fide formidable entrenchments in the
entrance of these pades, and it will be very
difficult for the enemy to support themselves
in this position.
BRUSSELS, January 7.
Letters from Germany confirm the total
defeat of the combined ai m es. General
Wurmfer had fixed his head quarters at
Schwefingen, four leagues from Manheini.
He has loft ,3 8 pieces of heavy cannon, and
an immense quantity of baireaee anil stores
About 7000 men fell or were made prisoners
in the last day of attack. His right and
centre were utterly broken. He tried in vain
to rally with his left, but they refufid to
obey him. Brunfwick's army in some de
gree covered the retreat of the Austrian
centre, and then retired with himfelf by
Oppeflheim to Mayence and Frankfort.
The defeat is ascribed to the error of Ge
neral Wurmfer, as the duke of Brunfwick
avers, that on the 25th he advif-d.the junc
tion of the t,wo armies, which Wurmfer re
fufed, and reposed with confidence on the
gallantry of his troops; the result of the
fatal 26th is we'l known.
The armies of Flanders are to be united,
and Cou tray is to be the head-quarters.
Every thing indicates alarm.
DUBLIN, January 23.
W; have altonifli ng success in the war.
We be it the French into Toulon—sixty miles
into Ger.nany, and into part of Italv. Bv
the last packet it appears, that we have re
cently succeeded in obliging them to accept
of Waterfqrd veiTels with provisions, and five
with linen from Belfaft. If we continue to
succeed in this manner, we shall certainly be
ruined by our good fortune.
There -i» n» - mwJnfiftmty whatever m
the speech from the throne. It alludes to
our fucce.s in running away.
LONDON, January 17.
Wcdnefday morning, two o'clock, fir Sid
ney Smyth arrived in town with difpatchts
from Lord Hood and fir Gilbert Eli.ot, da
ted Dec. *25, off che island of Hieres, not far
distant from Toulon. We lea. 11 the fallow
ing particulars: f.
1 lie republican party rer/iair.ing in Tou
lon, finding that lien e unl yineu.ad made
very near advances, and we e jojt to ltorm
tiic city, tc-ik advantage oi wiut was going
forward and declared themselves ior a coun
j ter revolution. This was on uie i;th. On
trie iiiiti, le.d Hood was informed, while at
b eaktaft, that some o. the ini&b.taiu* uad
b-guu to fire on our iroo;_/S, and were :n a
d t Ciar<.d ltate of iafurre-no.i. Orders wre
immediately given i. a t tiic town inouia be
evacuated by tlie atio lav., o. ihe loyal
inhabitants as che-le to embark oh' boarc ,-ur
ticet, should be carried off. '1 'i.e wnoie d»y
of the 18th, was employed in car.-yir.g tins
intention into effedl. What the number of
inhabitants is, who efesped, we do not ex
actly know ; but it may be iupf>oied to be
coiuiderable, when we ltate, that on beard of
the Robult man of war only, there are three
thouland pet pic,
It may ealily be supposed there was much
confulion in such a numerous ana ludd.n
embarkation j eipechlly as the inhabitants
hied on the allies as they attempted to get
away; but fewer accidents occurred than
could be reasonably expe<stcd, owing to the
very great exertions of our officers and fea
mcii, in affording every poiliblc afl'iltance;
nor would io many perlons have eifcaped, if
lir Sidney Smith, and other officers, had not
pointed cannon at the end of different flreets
to keep the republicans in awe; bv which
means the embarkation was made with much
greater fafety, less interruption. Strong
lymptorhs of treachery had been diicovered
in these people some days previous to the 18th
of December.
Of the 31 fail found within the harbour
of Toulon, the following is the abridged
summary, viz.
Burnt 15
Eicaped the flames g
Brought oft by lord Hood 3
Burnt at Leghorn, Le Scipion I
Sent to Brcit with refractory seamen 4
. ... 3*
Previous to the allies quitting Toulcn har
bour, they ipiked most of the guns on the
batteries, and let the arsenal and other public
buildings on fire. This was done on the 19th}
and although the French accounts aflert that
the fire in the arsenal was extinguifbed be
fore all the stores .jvere burnt, it is believed
that this is untrue, and that the building is
wholly confumcd, as it was set fire to in fc
veral places, and burnt for several hours with
incredible fury. The other public edifices
were l»t fire to in the fame manner.
Sir Sidney Smith was the officer who
commanded the gun-boats, and the firing
of the enemy s ships, and it wasMn a great
measure owing to his exertions that so
many of them were burnt.
The fleet met with a violent storm on
the 19th of December, but weathered it
remarkably well; and none of the (hips re
ceived any material damage, except a Tar
tane, which funk during the gale.
We do not precisely know the loss of
our army ; but we believe that no officer
was killed above the rank of a Lieutenant.
January, 18.
By accounts from Weft.Flanders, dated
the 1 ith instant, we learn, that on the
10th the military hofpitalat Lisle was con
sumed by fire, in which there were 1,800
sick, of whom the greatest part perished !
Prom the intelligence received from the
Flanders mail of this morning, jt appears,
that the French are still in such force on
the northern frontier, that the Germans
have as yet been able to prefentno effectual
check to their progress. Different fkir
milhes have taken place, and Manheim,
Coblentz, and other places in the vicinity
are preparing to fultain a siege, should the
French approach.
Yelkrday died, Edward Gibbon, Esq.
so much diftinguilhed by his elegant writ-
I '"gs.
The horrible maflacres which are
daily multiplied at Lyons, do not abate
the rage ofthofe to whom that unfortunate
town has been given up. Couthon has
propufed to the Jacobins to tranlport all
the L vonefe to another foil, where nourish
ed by a better cultivated land, they may
produce the sweet fruits of Liberty. D'
Orfeuille, in announcing to the Conven
tion the execution of 140 Lyonefe, pro
posed to difputch 500 at a'fmgleblow,
and to celabrate the day of execution as a
National fete. The Conventipii directed
the inferiion of it in the Bulletin.
" We have to combat two great evils,
the want of materials to manufa&ure dif
ferent articles of clonthing, and a scarcity
of corn. The want of shoes is particu
larly felt by the armies. The deer":
vember 14, which orde ed all the (hoe
makers of the Republic to furnifh five pairs
per week, remains unexecuted ; but this
negligence is now made up, by a decree
which requires, from Dec. 21, to March
10, all fhoemakersto be employed exclu
sively in making shoes for the military in
actual fervlee. As it is feared that the
fo'.diers may fell them for bread, they must
be squared at the end, and all but soldiers
aie forbidden to wear shoes of this form,
under pain of punishment, as being consi
dered to have bought them from the de
fender of the Republic."
To the Pennfylvanla S .ciety, for promoting
the abolition of Jlavery t i*fc.
(circular.)
IT is with peculiar pleasure we inform
you, that the Convention of Delegates,
from most of the Abolition Societies
formed in the United States, met in this
city, have, with much unanimity, gone
through the bulinefs whieh came before
them. The advantages to be derived
from this meeting are so evident, that we
have agreed earnestly to recommend to
you, that a similar meeting be annually
convened, until the great object of our
aflfociation—the liberty of oul' fellow
men—(hall be fully and unequivocally ef
tablilhed.
To obtain this important end, we con
ceive that it is proper, constantly to have
in view the nc-ceflity of using our utmost
and unremitting endeavours to abolilh
ilavery, and to protest and meliorate the
condition of the enslaved, and of the e
mancipated. The irresistible, though fi-.
lent progrcfs of the principles of true phi
lofophr, will do much for us ; but, pla
ced in a situation well adapted to promote
these principles, it surely becomes us to
improve every occasion of forwarding the
great designs of cur inftttutions. For
this purpose, we think it proper to ie
queft you to unite with us, in the most
ftren lions exertions, to effe£l a compli
ance with the laws in favour of emancipa
tion ; and, where these are deficient, ref
peflful applications to the ilate-lcgilla
tures fiiould not be discontinued, however
unfuccefsl'ul they may prove—-Let us
remember, for our consolation and en
couragement in these cases, that, zlthouA*, ■
intereil and prejudice may oppole, yet
the fundamental principles of our govern
meut, ns weft as the prc»gref!iv< and rapid
influence of reason and religion, are in
our favour,& let us never be dilcouraged
by a fear of-the event, from performiug
any task of duty, when clearly pointed
put j for it i? an undoubted truth—that
06 ;rood effort carl ever be entirely loft-
While contemplating the great princi
ples of our associations, we cannot re
frain from recommending to your atten
tion thepi'opriety of uJing your endeavours
to form, as circumftnnces may require,
Abolition Societies in your own, and in
the neighbouring dates; as, for want of
the concurrence of others, the good in
tentions and efforts of many an honest
and zealous individual, are ofteu defeated.
But,while we wish to diaw your atten
tion to these objects, there is another
■which we cannot pass over. We are all
too much accustomed to the reproaches of
the enemies of our cause, on the iubject
of the ignorance & crimes of the Blacks,
not to wish that they were ill-founded.
And though, to us, it is fufHciently ap
parent, that this ignorance, and these
crimes, arrowinglo the degrading state
of slavery; yet, may we not, with con
fidence, attempt to do away t,he reproach ?
—Let us ofe our endeavours to have the
children of the emancipated, and even of
the enfiaved Africans, inftru&ed in. com
mon literature —in the principles of virtue
and religion, and in those mechanic arts
which will keep them moll contlantly em
ployed, of eourfe, will lels fubjeft'
them to idienefs and debauchery ; and
thus, prepare them for becoming good ci
tizens of the United States: a privilege
and elevation to which we look forward
with pleasure, and which we believe can
be bed merited by habits of industry and
virtue.
We 'hall transmit you an cxaft copy of
our proceedings, with the different me
morials and addresses which to us have ap
peared recefTary at this time ; and would
recommend to you the propriety of giv
ing full powers to the Delegates who are
to meet in the year 1795 ; believing, that
the business of that Convention will be'
rendered more ealy arid more extenlively
ufeful, if you fend, by your Represen
tatives, certified copies cf the constitu
tion and laws of your Spciety, and of all
the laws existing in your state concerning
slavery, with such facts relative to this
buiiiioH, as may ascertain the refpedtive
fitustion of slavery, and of the Blacks in
general.
By order of the Convention,
Joseph Bloomfield, Prudent.
John M'Cree, Secretary.
Philadelphia "Jth 'Jan. ! 794.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 14.
•
Th;s forenoon, a large body of seamen,
paraded and marched through-the principal
ft rests of the city, with colours fiving.—
What their object was, we have not been in
formed.
Says a Correfpontlen!,
I find the principal men of the party
that is for engaging in the war along with
France, provided it can be effected with
out a formal declaration ; endeavor to per
suade us that in cafe of such an event, the
British and their Allies would not attempt
to invade this country by land, or to life
their own words not attempt to land any
troops in the United States. Upon what
reasonable grounds they found such a sup
position, I am at a loss to determine.
It may perhaps be said, it would be mad
ness and folly in the extreme, to attempt
that a second time, in which they had fail
ed on a former occasion. True, but if
we will take a view of the condutft of
the British Government in the present
scene, and many former ones, what is it,
they are not foollfh and wicked enough to
attempt ?
I would ask these gentlemen however,
if it is not probable, that the enemy would
at least endeavor to pofTefs themselves of
one or two of our harbors,, for their [hip
ping ; annoy us from Canada and the
Floridas, and aid the savages in commit
ing depredations on our frontiers, with
fury ?
According to the ideas of these gentle
men, taking the whole of their plans toge
ther, and making what we can of t?lem,
we are to lay aside all negociation ;—put
an almost entire flop to commerce, and,
\" % «
thervbv deilrcy our only feurfe of reve
nue without providing a fubllitute. 1 o
annihilate all public and private confidence,
and e&nvince the Britijh that we can be as
wicked as themfeives ; commit a kind of
facnlege, by a fequeftratiou of debts.
Without providing a military force, or
means to pay our just debts in order to
save us from bankruptcy at home and
broad ; fold our arms in security, and car
ry on war against the combined powers of
Europe, with a frt of refolutioas that
would throw us into an internal fever, and
weaken, if not dcilroy eyery nerve of the
body politic.
As a preparative to a declaration of war,
it is very obviously proposed in the relbluti
ons of the Democratic Clubi to annihilate
the public credit of the United States, for
they fay " that the w hole of the cre
dit WHICH THE RESOURCES OF THIS
COUNTRY MAY COMMAND, is not to be put
in competition the if ait of our rights as
a free and independent nation" —As i; can
not be supposed fhat any man, or body of
men, are lb infatuated as to believe, that the
rights of this, or of any other country
can be supported without means —and the
only adequate means, are credit, what is
the inevitable result of the above declaration
but that the property reqmfite to carry on
the war,(hall be railed by a force loan, a !a
mode de Paris, or by a depenuance on foreign
credit.
This day the following resolution in
substance, pafied the House of llepre
fentatives in committee us the whole —
61 in the affirmative—and was reported
to the House, and laid on the table.
Resolved, that until the Rritifh go
vernment (hall make compensation to the
citizens of the United States for spolia
tions on their commerce, for the negroes
carried away contrary to the treaty of
peace, and until the wellern pods (hall be
delivered' up—all commercial intercourse
(hall cease between the fubjefts of Great-
Britain or the fubjefts of any other na
tion and the citizens of the United States,
so far as the fame (hall relate to articles of
the growth or manufactures o?~ Great-
Britain or Irelandpiovided, the fame (hall
not take place before the day
. of
A letter from a gentleman in Liibon, to his
brother in this city, dated Feb. 11, 1794,
received by the southern mail—contains
the following information.
" That the Algerines are out to the num
ber of sixteen fail, part of them cruifino- be
tween Cape St. Vincents, and Cape Fnu.V-rre
—and fix fail on the coast of France—That
the Barbary states have remonstrated to the
Court of Portugal, against the Convoys which
had been granted to the American (hipping—
in cpnfequence of which, no more were to
be sent out —and that fifteen fail of American
veflel? were hauled up in I.ilbon—a great
scarcity of grain there, and prices conse
quently enormously high.
By this Day's Mail.
BOSTON, April 7.
Friday arrived, schooner America, from
Dominque, Phineas Smith, Matter, 23
days paflage, where he had been carried
in, and his veflel apd cargo condemned
and fold : The veflel he purchased for a
bout 70 dollars, and came home empty.
He informs, that veflels uncondemed were
given up.—That the last Britidi instruc
tions were received at Dominique four
days before he failed, and that all process
on American vefTels immediately ceased.
That of about 60 veflels carried in there,
31 had not been condemned, and the go
vernor had advil'ed the agents of the priva
teers, who had brought in those which
were not condemned, to make the best
terms they could with American captains,
as relHtution must be made : That a veflel
had been sent to Martinique, to obtain
the inftruftions of Admiral Jervis, as to
future proceedings refpefting American
veflels. That when he cleared out he was
charged at the office, the fees, &c. of
clearance. I o this he objected, observ
ing that it was hard to condemn all a man's
property, and then make him pay for
coming oft: that the governor replied,
that he might make himfelf easy, as he
would have it all returned. Capt. Smith
enquired of whom the restitution was to
be made, for if he was to depend on King
George, he (hould get nothing, as he was
already 3 bankrupt ; and was answered by
the governor cavalierly, that the French
I(lands would pay for it.
NEW-YORK, April 11.
From some hints suggested by a French
gentleman. CoJ. Stevens of this city lias caus
ed to be Wide a model of a cannon, mount
ed or. a carriage of .a new conftruilion. The
jfun is placed on a carriage nearly of the ufu
a! form, which Aides on a second carriage or
platform, which is moveable ; the end be
low the muzzle turning on a pivot, while.the
other end may move throtigh an arch at
least 90 degrees., The machinery is simple,
and managed with less strength than
cannon mounted in the ufaal manner. This
manner of mounting guns, has two remarka
ble advantages; it elevates them above the
breastwork, so as to fire over, and save the
neteflity of embrazures, which always weak
en a fortification ; at the fame time it gives
to the direction of. the fire a sweep of ninety
degrees, initeadof about J.?, usually allow
ed to embrazures; an immense r.dvantage,
when moving bodies are to be attacked. a
This model has been exhibited to the com
mifiioners of fortifications in this city, and
received their app obatiori.
\ - „ Minerva.
THEATRE.
OBSERVER No. XIV.
Mr. Fenno,
The Tragedy of Macbeth has been
twice acted at the New Theatre.—Mrs.
Whitlock and Mr. Fennell, have, in the
parts of Lady Macbeth, and Macbeth de
veloped and exhibited in its gigantic form,
the genius of the immortal Bard, Shakes
peare. - . j
The Observer cannot suppress a ve\y
pointed delire, that the Othello, Hamlet, '
Lear, &ci of the fame Bard, /nay be per
formed by this company ; he is confident
that the lovers of the Drama must experi
ence the highest gratification from Shakes
peare's exalted ideas, made familiar by the
inimitable expression and action of a Mrs.
Whitlock, Mr. Fennell, &c.
The Obfeiver is particularly gratified
I*ll the choice of plays lately exhibited ;
the Gameller and Guardian were happily
choftrn for the fame evening; the play and
after piece are in perfect unison to our
feelings ; the moral of each is excellent,
and the sentiments and language of the
best kind.
The Managers will rarely hazard any
thing by exhibiting Mr. Garrick's pieces ;
the G ardian (lands among the producti
ons of his tnallerly pen.
Mrs. Mar/hall in the parts {he has per
formed has never failed to ast unexcepti
onally : it would lead the Observer into
a detail too lengthy, in this hint, to mark
her excellencies, they {hall be rcferved
for an entire paper and probably the
next.
The Observer is impelled by bis feelings
to giva his mite of applause, to Airs.
iVhit lock and Mr.Fennell,'tat their exhibi
tion in the Gamfter &. Macbeth ; he has
always been delighted by their Theatric
performances, but never more so, than in
these two last.
A hint to those who attend the Thea
rre.
If an accident {hould happen,during the
play, that (hould render it necessary
to leave the houfe,plcafe to fit a minute or
two: believe me my friends, your con
venience and probably many lives, may
depend upon such a precaution.
Should the alarm be real, from fire or
almost . any other cause, you must wait to
know what it is, and where, or by at
tempting to avoid the danger, you may run
into its way. Should the Gallery or up
per Boxes break down, which event is
nearly impofiible, your fate must be de
termined immediately, and if you find
the house or any part of it fallen, and you
are not injured, by pressing all at once to
the door, some of you must be inevitably
hurt if not killed. But the principal dan
ger to be avoided, is the result of a falfe
alarm, such as happened the evening of
last Monday : and uulefs you fee positive
danger, the presumption is, that the
alarm is falle ; in such a cafe youe lives
depend on fitting still, at least till a certain
ty can be In Europe, many
people have been killed attempting to
hurry from public buildings in alarms, and
history hardly affords an instance of death,
in a tlieatie or other public building, 'by
any other cause, than attempting to rulh
out all at once. It is sincerely to be hop
ed the Ladies will provide themselves with
sal volatile, to prevent fainting in cafe of
an alarm.
The Managers {hould so contrive their
doors, as that they can open out of the
House; thiscircumftance will be a relief
to our feelings, as well as a real security,
in facilitating a paflage.
* If the extradl of a letter from Win
chester is genuine, the person who sent it is
requelted to make himfelf known to the Edi
tor.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA
ARRIVED.
.
Brig Two Sifters, Sigourney Boston, 11
, N days
Union, Martin, New-York, 8 days
Sloop Eleanor, Carrol, Charleston, 11
days
Nancy Steelman, New-Y:>rk, 4dayg
Hope Hufley, Nantucket, 6 days
Elizebeth Webb, Charleston, 7 days
Schooner Industry, Poole, St. Eulhtius
18 days
Saturday arrived here the Lhoonei 3et
fy, Capt. Betterton in 19 days from New-
Orleans. He informs lie left there the
following vefTels :
Brig Gayofa, Graifberj-y, Philadelphia
Georgia Packet, Stevenson, do.
Molly, Morgan, do.
Sloop Wheeler, do.
Belides 8 more American veflels—moft
ly belonginging to New-York—names un
known.
% P°Ji Office, April 8.
% Letters td go by the opportunity ex
peifted for Halifax, in the course of next
week,, in or(ler to be conveyed by the Britiih
Packet from t hat place to England,will be
received at this offlee until Tuesday the 15th
>n!t. at 11 o'clock, noon.
N. B. The inland portage to New York
must be paid. „ ....
To be fold by Public Veiidue,
The 19th Inltant,
At the Cofeee House,
At Seven o'clock in the Evening,
By order of the Rector, Church Wardens and
Vestry ot the United Episcopal Churthes
of Cbnft Church and St. Peter's Church in
the T uftees of the Ufrfwfl
ty, and the Managers of the Pennlylvania
. Hofpi.al,
The House and Lot bequeathed
l.y the lait Will and Teftanicut ot jaiiics
Stoops tleeeafedj-n equal po,jortions to tue
a ove being
The House, No. 20 *
Wi'e ein J >frj j ncer.now livesw^i! Situ
ated for bulinels, on the ' weft ikie of Th >d
i\ eet, abou, midway betv-en Ma ker mid
Arc 1 ftrcet It is 17 feet fro r lyot, TVrd
ltrc.-:, and th. lo'isl3afe.* deep
J h purchaser payi hau t l >e purchase mo
ney ou .iejivei v ot may have twelve
months credit fir ti.e remainder, on giving
good fec.uity and paying in erect.
ThOMAi GtIMPSTON,
JOHN WJtLCOC&S,
Committee for the keiftor,Church Wardens
aud Vettry appointed tniefl.
EDWARD FOX,
Comini. t«*e io. tlx University.
JOSEPH MSCHALL,
SAMUEL < OriTi>.,
B VRTHOLOMS/ft WISTAR,
Comm;ttee for the l*enufylvaiiia Ho pital.
Ap'il 14. ' dt«
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
April 14.
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, called
The Road to Ruin.
Dornton. Mr. Whitlock
Harry Dornton* Mr. Green
Sulky, Mr. Finch
S''ky, Mr. Bates
Goldfinch, Mr. Chalmers
Milford, Mr. Cleveland
Smith, Mr. Moretoa
Holier, Mr. Harwood
Tradesmen, MefTrs. Francis, De Mou
lin, Lee, Bason, &c. &o.
SherifTs Officer, Mr. Warr'tll
Jacob, Mr. BliiJett
Marker, Matter Warrell
Poftiliion, "'Mailer T. Warrell
Mrs. Warren, Mrs. Shaw
Sophia, Mrs. Marfoall
Jenny, Mrs. Francis
Mrs. Ledger, Mrs. Bates
End of the Comdy,
A Pantomimical Dance, called
The Sailor s Landlady,
OR
Jack ih Distress.
To which will be added,
A COMIC O ERA, in 2 ;ic:s, Written
by the Author of the Poor Soldier) called
the
Agreeable Surprize.
* As inconveniences to the public have
arisen from the Box book being rptn 6n ihe
days of performance only, ifi future atiende
ance will be givtn at the office m the Theatre
every day from ten 'till one, and on the days
of performance from ten till three o'clock in
the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, iti»
refpe&tidly requested, may be addrefled, to
Mr. Franklin, at the Box Office.
Boxes, one dollar —Pitt, three quarters
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.Just Imported,
In the/hip Abigail, Captain Httrtorr, from St
Pejtrfturgh in Raffia, and nvtu landing at
Rifffeir s <wharf,
HtMf,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA IH'CK, .
And tor sale at the (tore. of the fuMcnber in
Walnut llieet, 51". 22-
"John Donnalafcn,
April 4.
St. Domingo Snferers.
pe'foH! who undertook to col'eft
the l'ub!cn prion m.<d ■ for the relief of H>- a-
Uove unfo tuiate,p*rfonSj «f« r«quefted to
com:>l to tji«rretuni% where they have not
already done it, and to deliver the. fame, with
any ba'an e they may ho'd, into the 'lands o(
the Treafuur, who will receive any Inscrip
tion Which remains uncollefted, or any frelh
donatio.,. It is hoped instant attention wtll
be piid to tfiis notice, to enable the commit
tee >fdift'ibutioal» close their accounts and
give fi>rt»tr relief to a number of those per
sons ft'll remaining here, whose fituaCion is
tlTllydiftreffihg.
By order of the d'Hrib'itton,
Robert Smith, Trea/urer.
April 9, «794*
P. S. It is requested the different Pi inters
\frilHor a few days, publilh the above.
Pennfylvaiiia Hofpitai,
4th Month, jthlW-
The Contributors are desired
to attend,the Eiection, to b held at the
Hospital oj ih.- SCII day of the sth Month
nex r ,at 3 o"elodt in the afternoon; to choole
twelve and a TXt aSURER, ior
the ensuing year:
By ofder of a board of Managers.
Samuel Ceates, clerk.
Stock Brokers Office,
No/16, Wall-street, New-York
THh. luolcriber intending to confine hrrofelf
e „m.-iv to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, brgs leave to of
i r ht* ierveccsto hi# irie<K>s »ntj others, in t-ne
line ol a S»t*k BrokSrr. Thtfft-*lio nwy pl«fe
to fjvor him with their Wwef», may d "P'" d
upon having it .tran'.aAed with the u.moß fide
lity *i.<l difpaich.
,'Oiders liom Philadelphia, Bolton, or .any
other partot the United States, will be llriftty
luended to. LEONARD BLLECKER.
m&'ntr
'1' PROPOSALS
For 'Printing by Slib/crlption,
An Original Nov el,
In Pour Volumes., duodecimo,
Dedicated, by Perrtiiffibn, to Mra. Bingham,
fe N T I T L S D,
Trials of the Human Heart.
By Mrs. 'KOW6 W,
Of the New Theatre, finil.\delpbia, Author
of Victoria, Ijiqu'fi'Or, Charlotte, Fille
<W Ch.imbre, ta.Ac.
11 if there's a pnw'r above us,
<< (And that there is, all Nature cries aloud
" Thro'all her works) he mull delight in
" virtue, _
14 Anithat which he delights in, must be
44 happy."
" The foul, fecurtl in her e*iftence,fmiles
1 1 the dravvb & defies its point"
CONDIT,if)NS.
"1. "The work ro be pritrted with'a tiest type
«n good piper.
U, Price to ful.fcribers ji>ur dollars hound,
One half to be paid at the time of fubferibipg.
111. The fubferibers' names will be prefixed
as patfonsM the undertaking.
« i > Subscriptions are received by the Au
thor, the corner of Seventh atid Chcfnut
streets, MelTrs. Carey, Rice, and Dobtoo,
Philadelphia— Mr. Gicen, Annapolis—Mes
srs. Allen, Barry, and S. Calnpbell, New,
York VteflVs. Weft, Thomas and Andrew
Blake, and Lirkin, Boffon— Mr. Hafwel,
Vermont —MelT s.Rice, and Edwards, Bal
timore —Mr. W. P. Young, Cbarlefton.
April 2. inw&fjwj
In the Name of the French
Republic.
I? VERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
j the Neutrality of the United States.
All commissions or authqrizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
( March 6th, 1 7<mJ o. s. )
The Minister Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of newspapers -within the
United States, are requested to republifh the
for .g' ing notice. d
<X 3" This Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement —The S'ubfcription
cncreafes daily—Advertijing Favors are
faHcited —These conjlitute an ejfential Item
in diminijbing the Debit Jide of the Account.
~ : WANTED ! ~
• r AN APPRENTICE
To the Printing Business, Enquire at this
Office.
. - - ' ••••■■ ■■ -- ■ - '
„. *■». *■.j 'x,''
For Sale by the Subfcribtrs,
Muscovado sugar in Mids.&^bni.
Ilyfon and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, in pipes
and quarter calks.
! Spaiiifh Iri.ugo.
Ho [ton Beet, in barrels.
And a small invoice of Muslins.
NALBRO'&JOiiN FRAZIER,
No. 164, South Front-street.
March 8. fmw4w
The following Certifi
cate of the funded three pel Cent Slock of the
Duincftic Debt ot the Unut'd Staiet (landing on
the books of the Treasury of (aid United
Slates, in the names o( Donnald and Burton 01
Loudon, meichanls, and signed by J«(eph
Nouife, Register ot said Trtafury, to wit :
No. 5476, dated 24ih Augult 1792 for 5959
dollars and S3 c*nts was ttanlmitied lion Lou
don in the (hip Peler, Paul Hulley, inaftei,
Ix.urid for New York, and has been (olt.—
The Subscriber intending 10 apply to the Tica
fury of the United States 10 have the fame re
newed , defnrs all perfous who are uitcieftcd in
the said cerufkaie, tp make their obje&ions
thereto, if any they have.
Francis Macy.
Philsd. March 27. d 6w
* TO BE SOLD,
And entered upon tVic fiift ot May,
The noted EJlate, called
yobnfon Hall:
Lying in the Mohawk country, state of New
Yoik, formerly thereat of Sir William John
son, containing about seven hundred acres ot
land, is of the very bed .quality ; toge
ther with the (lock, and (armir.g uicnfils. The
buildings are large and convenient, and fit for
a gentleman's feai. The payments will be made
ejfy, ongood (ccurity. for further particulars
enquire ot George Metcalf, E(g. on the premif
cs, of Silas Talbot, Esq. at Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Brothers, in New York, or
of the fubferiber in Providence.
Jabez Bowen.
Pliilad. March 26 mw&lim
Samuel Coates,
At bit Store, No. 82, south Front Jirect,
.Hath for sale,
94 Barrels
New England Beef,
29 barrels liver oil,
25 barrels Cider,
92 boxes of Candles,
1500 pair of men's ieaiber (hoes
642 bilhels ot Barley
A quantity of Tow Linen
P-uo, of Nexw-tEiiglaiid Soal leather
jjo excellent cortcn
a b®xes or t;t>ocofcart: , >: 3
fipoo wi. ot AHpice
+00 cases of (be Deft Holland gin.
April l. *eod2w
Lately Published.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street :
nPH.h, Hiltory ot Ne\v-Hd<npfliiie, trom the
JL Dtfcovery ol the River Pifcataqua—by Je
remiah Belknap, D. D. 3 Vols. Pfice in Boards,
4 I 2 Dollars.
The Foirefter, an American Fable, being a
Sequel lathe Hittoiy ot JohnJJulLthe, Clothier.
75 Cents.
A Ddcourfe, intend td to commemorate the
Dilcovery .ot America by ChrUloyher Colum
bus; delivered at the tequeft ol jthe Hiitorical
Socitty in MaffachuletU, Odober 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Thud Century,
iince that memorable event. To which art
added, Four Diffcrtatioi.s, connected with tht
iubjc —By the fame author. .Price, 50 Cents
March 17. , tuth&^w
The annual election
FOR
Directors and a Treasurer
OF THE
Library Company of Philadelphia,
WILL beheld at the Library, in Fiftn
■street on Monday tliefifth of' May at
three o deck in the at'iei no"ii,wlien the trea
surer will attend to receive the annual pay
ments.
As there are fevera! lhares on which fines
are due, the owners of' them, or their repte
fentatives, are hereby notified, that they will
be forfeited, agreeably to tlie laws of the
Company, unlets tlie (aid arrears are paid off
on tlie fifth day of May, or within ten days
after.
By Order ef the Direftoi s.
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN,
Secretary
April 7' m&w t sth May.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Ed<uiard, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Peter (burg in RulTia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 12, Walnut-street.
1 March4,l794. diw^tawtf
Just Pablifted,
In one hindfome volume, i2mo. Price 5s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROd, ,
At Franklin's Head) No. 4%, Second
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Mcn y
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it impose.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Corrected and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN
D. D.
Profeflor of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
oi Nature, and of Ecclefiaflical Hilhirj •
and Minister of the English Chuich at tjl
treiht.
Aliquid Temper ad cpmmumm utilitatem tf.
ferendum. Giciro.
The Firjl American Edhiofi.
THE grand principle of Equality, if right
ly underft.iod, is the only basis 011 which
nniverfal justice, sacred order, and perfect'
freedom, can be Irmly built, and permanent
ly secured. Tiie v.ew of it exhibited in this
eflay, at the fame time thai it rep/efjes ,[, e
in (ale nee of office, the tyranny of pi ide aid
the outrages of oppreliion ; cimfig ms, in the
most forcible manner, tile necefiity of fnbor
dination, and the just demands of lawful nul
thority. So far indeed, from looleping the
bands of fuciety, that it maintains inviolate
every natural and every civil diftiii«aion T
draws more closely every social tie, unites i,I
one harmonious and justly proportioned fyC
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of-iunian na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. eodiw'ugdVf
To be Sold at Public V 'eiidif£~
On Friday the nth day of April next
at the house of Jahu 7bomfon, in P«th-
Amb oy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT-CITY^
THE 1-ot contains eleven acres, on vAich is
a I orchaia ot gralted apple trees, a well of
excellent water, a latgr flone c Hero, and a tfery
commodious liable and coach-iwulc, and a gt cat
quantity ol the best building Hones in.the walls
of the houte, which was foinierly built for the
rcfidenee of the Governors of New-Jerley. The
limation of thts Lot 15 so Well known lor irs
heaUhinels and beautiful of the lUri'on
nvei to.(be weft of ihe bay, and Sandy-Hook to
the cafl, that a lufiher defciiptlon is unneceft'ry.
The conditions ps sale will b:, one third of (lie
purchafc muney to be paid uli the ■ fir.lt ,day of
May mxt, w|un a good and tufficicn'. Deed w ill
be given to the Vj.M'aj. ti *- ,Uv-
TherfurD) Esq. Ptefjdetit of the Board of
Proprietors ol the Eaftem Divtfion of New-
Jersey, and the remaining two thuds foti»l.i&b
rily secured in equal annual payments.
By order of ti c Board,
JAMES PARKER, Regiflex.
Pcrth-Ambev. uai \ r t . 1794. 2.iw2m
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry, (Arch) b tween Fou'th and filth'
Streets, adjoining t\)e Episcopal bur) jug
g ound,
r this opportunity of returning his
X grateful thanks to his former employers,,
and requeftiDg their futjive favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at th«
shortest notice, allkinds of pleafurt* carriage*,
such as coaches, chariots, pi ?etons with and
without cran-e necks, coacbe-es, chajfes, kiue
reens,windfor fulkeysard ehaiis, and .baruefs
ofev«y defefiption, in the neatest an,d
fclhion now prevajlingjn the United States.
And as be has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion to those whopleafe to employ him.
He has for sale, several carriages almost
finifhed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top. -S
Carriages fold on Commission.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794 m&rt 1 Jm
" JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends ,and
ihe public, Tint from ihe encouragement
he has received, from fevera} tefpe&abte Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LINE —a«d would offer his £r»vi- es 10
all those Gentlemen, who can place conlidenc
in him and he allures those who employ him,
that th< ir confidence (hall not be mitplaced
but it (hall be his constant endeavor, to pft) ihe
ftn£L ft attention 10. their best in all ne
gotiations whatever. He has taken the Chamber
in State-Street, David ToxnHfend Waich
Maker's Shop, -Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, ot alLkmds, are bought and ioid ; and
wheic Coininiiiion Bufntefs ol all kinds, will be
tranfa&ed on itqfonable terms. iJQUSES and
VESSELS will be conlUntly exposed for faie, on
commission.
*** Cafb paid for Salem, Providence,
Ponfmoutb SILIS
N. B. If any Gcntlehan in Philadelphia, or
NewA orkyhds any biifinefs to travjacl at
in Paper, Neoocmtionhe wilL be happy to be> cm
, ployed on cpmrrfijjion.
Botion, Jan. 94. 17Q4-
PHILADELPHIA :
Trinted by jbHN FENNO, No ,3,
South Fourth-Street —