of tije Wnim
EVE
[No. i 7 of Vol. V.]
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
CARE
M.
By
No. MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuable collection ofBOOKS,
imported From London in the Mohawk.
Dec. 19.
N O R R I S-COU RT,
B»ck of the New L-bra- v, betwetn Ifcefnct
and Walnut-Street';
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his frfcmds and
tlie public in general, that he continues
carrying on the btu£ne f s of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doarsor window-Ih utter*, done in the 1110 ft
elegant manner, and with dilpatch.
Orders from the oontry will be thankfully
Teceiveii, and duly attended to.
Decei nbgr 3 >,
Parry and Mufgrave,
Ga ldfmltbs Ssf Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An th'ant AJJbrtmmi of
SILVE R bf PLATED WARE,
JEW!- .LLERY y fnt CUTLERY,
Which they will difpofic of on the most rea
sonable C eiras. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, am I erery thing in the gold and fiiver
way, doc e as ufaal
Deccr nber 24.
Rohert Campbell,
No. 54, South Sxond-jireety
Second) loor b- low the corner of Cliefnut- street,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the !late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A' large and general AJJbrlment of
New Books an J Stationary,
Which will be disposed of 00 the lowed terms.
Dec. 23. mw&fif
NOW IN THE PRESS,
j hid tctll fptedily be fubU/lied,
THE
Un/ited States Register,
For the Year 1794;
Cot itaining, besides accurate and complete
lift-? C f all the Officers in tlie genera l , and the
pri«C ipal Officers in the particular govern
ment a variety of information, ufefnl for all
clafl es.
E. Oswald,
No. 156, Mirket-Street, Suuth,
a T tlie request of a number of friends,
± .k. proposes publilhing The Independent
Cj zettkh, twice a week, viz. Wednefdavs
and Saturday":—to commence in January next,
if fufficient encoeragement offers.
It will be publiOird on Paper and Types
equal to its present appeal ante. The lub
fcription 3J dollars per ann.
Advertisements not exceeding a fqnare,
, ill be lulerted 4 times for 1 dollar—every
continuance one fifth of a dollar. Those ex
f eeding a square, in the fame proportion.
NOTICE
IS hereby given, to the Members of the
Insurance Company of North-America,
That the third Instalment, being Two Dollars
on each share of the Stock, is to be paid, a
greeablv to the Conftitntion, on the second
Monday [the 13th day] of January next: And
a Central Meeting of the Stockholders is to be
on the succeeding day, ior the purpose of
chooflng Fifteen Direflors % examining into the
Situation of the Company's Affairs, and ma.
king such additional Rules and Regulations
as they (hall jndee necessary.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sccratary.
Dec. 16. mw&f t3- ij
MONEY borrowed or loaned, accounts Ra
ted or colle&ed, employers (uited with
flotnefties, bouse u>oms, boarding and lodging
neotrd, let or procured—soldier's, mariner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims on the
]*iblic ; (hires in the banks, in thecanali, and
the turnpike road : certificates granted by the
public, and the -old and late paper monies ;
•totes of hand, bills, bonds and morgages, with
•»r without deposits—Bought, fold, or cego
•:iated at No. 8, m south Sixth-ftrect, below
Market-street bv FRANCIS V. HI TE,
Wbotranfa£U bufmefs in tha public offiecs for
t vuntrv peop-e and others, by v irtue of a pow
(tr of iiimnfT, or by personal application.
December I s.
NING ADVERTISE
Wednesday, January 1, 1 7*94
Mr. Peals. deems it a duty to informthe kind
promoters of his Museum, that he hits re
ceived from foreign countries very flatter
ing encouragementfor the propcfils hi had
made of reciprocal exchange of naturalfuL-
Jt3s. And that his Museum wJI thus he
gradually Jlored with precious Ex odes,
Y,
while it retains a fvfficient number (f na
tive specimens. With this view he intends,
from time tc time, to publish cxbacls of his
foreign correfpondcnce of -which the folio-w
---ing is a part.
Philadelphia June %d*
The Swed'fh Academy of sciences at Stock
holm has desired me to present grateful ac
knowledgements for the Birds you fer.t, and
to declare a ready acceptance of yovr proptfal
for a reciprocal exchange of thefe y anil other
fubjeds of natural hrjiory. Mr. Guflavus
Von Car If on ( P refdent of one of the Supreme
Courts- of Juflice) has charged himfelf with
the exchange of Birds, This eminent orni
thologifl owns a precious cabinet of Birds,
containing more than 800 fpeaes ; and has
by teflamer.tary d'fpofitiongeneroufly bequeath- \
ed the whole to the said Academy of sciences.
Tou will therefore be pleafedtG fend in future
the birds dire Sly to him. He has already
in return forwardedfeveral of the mofl valu
able Swedish Birds, such as the Urogallus
major, and Urogallus minor, the Lago
pus, &c. The firjl is in fi%e equal to a Tur
keyj and in flavour, though different, not in
ferior. With the bef. wishes for your perso
nal pr fperity, the academy takes a lively inte
refl in the success of your Museum, perfmded
that Natural Hjfiory will derive great im
provement from yrfur r,eal and ingenuity.
I continue with refpeS, Sir,
Tour friend and humble servant,
Nicholas Collin.
mwSrftf
Mr. C. IV. Peak
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE undernamed committee, appoin'cd by
" THF SOCIETY for the INSTITU
TION 7 and SUPPORT of FIRST-DAY or
SUNDAY SCHOOLS in the city of Philadel
phia and the diftrid of Southwaik ar.d the
Noithern Liberties," to solicit further fubferip.
tions for the support of the schools which the
fatd society have eftablifbed, take the liberty to
represent to their fellow citizens—
Thai, although the school* were fufpendM
during the period of the late awftjl calam-ty
with which our city and suburbs have been af
fl ded. thry are now again opened for she free
admifCun and education of ooor children.
That, the neccflity and reafona for the eflab
liflimen' of these schools arc increafcd, frOm the
ctrcumftance of the late diftrrfs having left a
number of Orphans deilitute of all the means
of education, save what the hand of benevolence
mav administer.
Thar, former experience has, most pleafinply,
verified the fondrft hopes ot the friends of this
institution, with regaid to the p'ogre f s arul ad
vancement of the children, who have heretofore
bern under its care, in the ufeful branches of
education which it has afforded. Referring to
this fa€t, and to the address to the public, on
this fubje&, publiftied in the newfpaoers of this
city »n the third month last, when about eight
hundred and twenty children of both sexes had
partaken of the benefits afforded bv the society,
and about thrre hundred and twenty more were
th-n a&ually receiving inftru&ion in their
schools, it now only retrains to be observed,
that the funds of the focirty are greatly ineffi
cient to carry on their brnevolent defipm, and
that the committee formerly appointed to folicti
fubferiptions, conceived it necefTary to decline
their anpltcations to their fellow-citirens for
their afliftance in favor of these schools, in order
that theie might be no intenuption from th-m
to the solicitations then made in behalf of their
unfortunate brethren from Cape-Fraocois.
The public aid is now therefore eamcfUv f«>-
licited to support a charitable eflabliihment, cal
culated upon the principles of public and pri
vate pood. The annual fubferipuon for a mem
ber is but One Dollar; and it is presumed that
so fmali a sum per annum cannot be better dis
posed of, by those who can afford it, than by
bestowing it as the price of the diffufion of ufelu!
knowledge among the poor and friendletk
Subfctiptipiu and donations will be gratefully
received by the undernamed committee on be
half of the society :
Peter Thompson,
Thomas P. Cope,
Joseph Price,
Edward Pole,
jamcs Hardie,
William Innis,
Benjamin Sav,
Nathaniel Falconer,
Francis Bailey,
leffe Sharplefs,
Samuel Scot ten,
Peter Barker.
AND
THE following observations have been
submitted to the infpeciion of the first
Characters in the United States—and
have receined their approbation, as con
taining the belt information relative to the
important objects to which they refer—
as filch, they have been handed to the
public in the form of a pamphlet—for the
purpose of a more general circulation, vdu
are requested to publish them in the Ga
zette of the United States.
OBSERVATIONS
RIVER POTOMACK,
The Country Adjacent, and the
CITY OF WASHINGTON.
THE permanent feat of government of
the United States, having been fixed cn the
river Potomach, by a solemn aS of the go
virnment —This river, the country about it,
and particularly the spot chosen for the feat
of government, become objeds of interefling
enquiry, both at home and abroad.—This
confederation has drawn the fallowing ob
servations from a person who, to a general
knowledge of the Potomack and its dependen
cies, adds the advantage of having been long
in a Jituation, where he has had an opportu
nity of obtaining the befl informatiou on the
points mentioned in the following Jbeets.
THE river Potomack forms a jundhon
with the bay of Chefapeak, one hundred
and fifty miles from the sea. From thence
to the head of tide-water is about one
hundred and sixty miles.
•' This river is seven and an half miles
»'ide at its mouth ; four and an half at
Momony Bay ; three at Aquier; one and
an half at Hollowing-Point; one and a
quarter at Alexandria ; and the fame from
thence to the city of Walhmgton, which
is within three miles of the head of tide
water.—lts foundings are seven fathoms
at the mouth ; five at St. George's Island;
four and an half at Lower Matchodic ;
three at Servan's Point, and the fame from
thenee to the city." [Mr. Jefferfon''
Note 6 on Virginia.]
From the Capts of the Chefapeak to
the city of Washington, is upwards of
three hundred miles; but the navigation
is easy and perfectly fafe.— * A veflel of
twelve hundred hogsheads of tobacco has
loaded at and failed from Alexandria, and
one of seven hundred hogsheads at George-
Town, which is above the city.
At the city the water rises four feet in
a common tide.
From the city of Walhington to Cum
berland, a flourirtiing town at the head of
the river, is about two hundred and thirty
miles as the river runs.
Early in life General Washington con
templated the opening of this river, from
tide-water to its source, so as to make it
navigable for such veflels as were suitable
for carrying the produce of the country
to the (hipping ports below. His public
employments in the part of the country
through which the Potomack and its
branches run, had given him a more com
plete knowledge of this river, than almost
any other man poffefled at that time ; and
his mind was strongly imprefled with its
future importance. But the period for
undertaking a work of such magnitude
had not yet arrived The country was
then but sparsely inhabited.—Canals and
Locks but little understood, especially in
America ; and but few men of property
were willing to engage in an undertaking,
the cost of which they could not clearly
calculate, and the profits of which were to
many doubtful.—General Walhington,
I however, kept the object steadily in view,
Ebmctci Larpc,
Jacob Cauffmanj
James Todd,
fnCrph Jamca,
Jonathan Peniofr,
George M'.ade,
John Pero%
John M'Crff,
• Report of the committee appointed
by the merchants of George-Town and
Alexandria.
Robert Ralfton,
Thomas A»mat t
Geo gc Williams
Jan. l
Urates
Mr. Fen*o,
Yours,
ON THE
[Whole No. 475.]
waiting until time and cirrumftances {hould
enable him to bring it forward, with a prof-
peel of success,
Tne tvar with Great Britain took place
about the time when the importance of
this object began to be understood, and a
villingnefs to embark in it began to appear
among men of property. Until the close
of that war nothing, however could be
attempted iti the business.—But no soon
er had a happy termination of it enabled
Gen. Wafl.ington to retire from his high
public station, than he refumcd this object
which had so long before occupied his
mind. He found gentlemen cf the firft
property and refpeftabiiity in the neigh
borhood of the Potomack, both in Virgi
nia and Maryland, ready to engage in the
enterprise. Ia the year 1784 a company
was formed for the purpose of removing
the obftruftions, and opening the naviga
tion of the river from its source down to
tide water, and an ast of incorporation,
pafled by the assemblies of Virgihia snd
Maryland, authorizing the company to
take the neceiTary measures for carrying
into effect the objects for which they were
incorporated—and granting to them for
ever the tolls which may arile therefrom ;
which tolls are fixed by the fame law that
empowers the company to undertake the
business. The sum agreed upon to com
plete the navigation was 50,000!. sterling,
divided into 500 (hares ot iocL each, to
be paid by such inftahnents, and at such
times, as the Directors of the Company
(hould find necefiary for the prosecution of
the work. Ten years were allowed the
company to fettle the business.
G. J.
The company have prosecuted their
work with great success, and what is not
common in undertakings ef tlus nature,
they will complete it for fomsthing less
than the sum fubferibed. The rate of toll
being fixed, and knowing with some accu
racy the quantity of produce that is now
brought by land from these parts of the
country, which will of course, throw the
fame upon the river, they have a certainty
of receiving, cn the firft opening of the
river, a handsome per centage on their ca
pital, (even without calculating upon the
articles which will be sent up the river,)
and the increase will be almost incredible.
Those who best know the circumstances of
the country, and some, who are not among
the moll sanguine with refpccl to the pro
fits of this undertaking, have no doubt
of the capital's producing fifty per cent,
annually, in less than ten years from the
time of the toll's commencing.
The principal work in completing the
above mentioned navigation, is at the
Great Falls, fourteen miles above the city
of Washington—at the Little Falls, four
miles above the said city, and in clearing
the river between these two Falls. At the
Great Falls, the water falls 72 feet in 1 mile
and half—and at the Little Falls 36 feet
8 inches in about two miles.—At the for-
mer there will be fix, and at the latter
three locks. The locks at the Little Falls
will be finitlled this season, and fit for use ;
those at the Great Falls are in forward-
ness—and, with clearing the bed of the ri
ver between the two falls, will be completed
next year. This will finifh the navigation
of the main river, from Cumberland down
to tide-water, and enable the Company to
receive the reward ot their expesfe and la
bor. Boats, carrying from one hundred
and fifty to two hundred barrels of flour,
already pass from Cumberland to the Great
Falls; and many thousand barrels of flour
have actually been brought in boats to the
latter place during the present year.
Bcfides the main river of the Poto
mack, its numerous and extensive branches
offer the prafpeft of transporting to the
main river, and from thence to the ship
ping ports, an immense quantity of pro
duce.
The following are the principal ftrramx
which empty into the Potowmack, shove
tide-water, and the distances to which
they are navigahle in their natural (late,
from their conflux with the Potowmack.
R.Patterfon's Creek, which sal& Into {lie
river ten miles below Cumberlaud, is i?i
vigable twenty miles above its mouth;—
The South Branch, seventeen miles below
Cumberland, is navigable one hundred
miles ; —Connogocheque, ninety miles be
low, is navigable twenty-iQur miles;—O
pecan, one liuiidred and miles
below, is twenty-five miles from
its mouth, and within a few miles of Win
chester, which, after Lancaster, is the larg
Tlic Shannandcah, one hundred and thir
ty mil-s below, runs into the country at
right angles from the Potowmack, nearly
two hundred miles, and the navigation of
it, for one hundred and fifty miies of that
aiftance, ii but little interrupted j the
chief obftrudHon is, where it enters the
Potowmack ; and, so trifling is that, com
pared with the great advantages of this
noble branch, that its removal and clearing
other parts, will not cost more than twen
ty-five thousand dollars. The Potowmack
Company have aheady made a beginning
on this work.—The Monocofy, one hun
dred and fifty miles below Cumberland, is
navigable thirty miles above its mouth.
This branch is within two miles of Frcde
rick-Town, in Maryland, one of the larg
elt inland towns in the United States.*
These several streams, as well as the
main river, paf3 through a country not
exceeded in fertility of foil and salubrity
of nir, by any in America, if any in the
world; and few parts of America can
boast of being equally healthy with the
banks of this river, and the adjacent coun
try.
* Report of the committee appointed
by the Merchants of Georgetown and Al
exandria, which, being founded on the
actual observations made by order of the
Directors of the Potomack eompany,may
be deemed authentic.
[to be continued.]
Mr. Fenno,
Please to publilh the following paflage
from a piece signed Plain Truth,
which appeared in a morning paper.
" ON the late thanksgiving day, ap
pointed by the Governor I went to two
or three diffenent places of worlhip, during
the course of the day and evening, and
found myfelf grieved to find but one among
the whole number of preachers I heard,
whose discourse abounded with liberality
and'juftice—He, with a degree of can
dour that will do him honor, ingeniously
declared that it is not in our power to
scan the ways of omnipotence or pretend
to determine for what particular crime he
had thus punished us! and that it was
actually presumption in us to pretend to
know the purposes of him that sent it.
How many others acted with equal ho
tfefty in their discourses, I will not pretend
to determine, tho' I hope they were nu
merous, but this I can fay that there were
some who did not. It was that day de
clared from the pulpit, that the Theatres
were the chief cause of the late calamities,
and ought to be immediately abolilhed,
and every argument that designing sophis
try could use, was exerted to efl?& their
purpose, by rousing every latent spark of
superstitious prejudice and ignorance that
had laid dormant for these centuries part,
and bringing forth all that ancient venera
tion and implicit obedience, for the clergy
that were once entertained for them in an
rarly day of clouded ignorance and error.
Their delign no doubt was to gain such
an ascendency over the minds of the peo
ple as to enable them to acjomplifh their
present purpose, and succeed in any future
ones of a iimilar kind What their next
object would be, if they Ihould effect their
present purpose, we may very nearly tell
from this circumflance that one of them
in a fubfequrnt discourse clafled with the
Theatres, Balls, AfTemblies &c. among
the number of our fins, so that their next
step would be to suppress and destroy our
public Balls, Aflemblies, Concerts &c.
with every other reasonable recreation and
anuifement they could discover was prac
tifedby the citizens, in which they would
110 doubt be afiillcd by their good friends
the Quakers. How much farther itill,
they would procecd.with their dictatorial
authority can only be known to the unli
mited power of omnipotence.
(T> The Stockholders in the Bank of
the United States, residing in the city of
Philadelphia, and its neighbourhood, are
requested to meet at the Citv-Tavem, to
morrow, at 6 o'clock in the evening, on
business relative to the enfuincr election for
Directors. January i.
Fjr t'.<: GA-r.i.-rtt-f the Vnitxo Sr.i-rts,
For the ift day of January, 1794.
ne following arrangement of all the days
of a year—{hewing on what day of the
week they severally fall, has been found
very convenient in accompting houses
and tradtfinen's (hops, and is a ready
Almanac to all clafles of citizens, who
wifli a reference to any particular day,
back, forward, or the present.
? s H H ? Cf
f g. § E, s. f I-" s
. -5 S* » s a g
f ,
t•• , , ,
e January - - o o o I 2 34
e 567891011
12 13 14. 15 16 17 18
s 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
T February - 26 27 28 29 30 31 I
- 2345678
- 9 10 11 12 13 14 15
t 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
March - - 23 24 25 26 27 28 I
2345678
9 10 11 12 13 14 15
16 17 18 19 20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27 28 29
April - - 30 31 1 2345
6.7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
May - - 27 28 29 30 1 2 3
4 5 6 7 8 9 10
11 12 13 14 15 16 17
iS 19 20 21 22 23 24
25 26 27 28 29 30 31
June - - - 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
8 9 10 11 12 13 14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21
22 23 24 25 26 27 28
July - - 29 30 i 2 3 4 5
6 7 8 9 10 11 12
13 14 15 16 17 18 19
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
August - - 27 28 29 30 31 1 2
3456789
10 11 12 13 14 15 16
17 18 19 20 21 22 23
24 25 26 27 28 29 30
September - 31 123456
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
October 28 29 30 1 2 3 4
5 6 7 8 9 10 11
12 13 14 15 16 17 18
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
November -26 27 28 39 30 31 1
2345678
9 10 11 12 13 14 15
16 17 18 19 20 21 22
23 24 25 26 27 28 29
December -30 123456
7 8 9 10 11 12 13
14 15 16 17 18 19 20
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
28 29 30 31 o o o
From the American Daily Advertif;r.
A Correspondent who profefTes the love
of virtue wherever it is to be found, ac
knowledges his attachment to plain truth
when its views are to promote the general
benefit. Of this fort he begs leave v to
mention a " plain truth," which really is
of such a nature as is truly encouraging to
those of our fellow citizens, who hope
that a very considerable alteration for the
better amongst the people, will be the hap
py consequence of the late general cala
mity.
Our correspondent has heard it observ
ed, that the places of worihip are more
generally attended by survivors of the
sickness than they used to be previous to
that period, and from his own observation
refpe&ing the place which is usually atten
ded by himfelf, it is really remarkable,that
the feats of those who are departed,(hould
be so speedily occupied by others, in the
manner which is well known to hafe been
the cafe in many iuftances.
These are signs of feripus thoughtful
nefs, becoming a people, capable of re
membering an awful visitation, in which
perhaps there were but few families in this
great city, who have not sustained the
loss of valuable neighbours, beloved friends
or the cleared Relatives. In numerous in
itances, how peculiarly afFecting have been
these lofles ? Fathers, mothers, funs, and
daughters, are involved in them ; and that
they ought to impress our minds in a be
coming manner, is believed to be a senti
ment coinciding with the ideas of every
one, who in sincerity withes to promote a
reformation, which however desirable it
may be to the bed men, they would dis
dain to attempt to forward on any other
principled than thole which thev telle.v
to be confident with their proleilioiis of
religion, and their love of virtue ; whii h
mi-it include on all occasions a flui regard
to truth.
Our ccrrefpondent fays, that since writ
ing the above, the substance of a portion
of scripture imprefTed his mind in such a
manner,that he thinks there may be no im
propriety in the following quotation, be
ing beautifully descriptive of the true
chriltian character. "Ye are the light of
the world. A city that is set on a hill
cannot be hid. Let your light so shine
before men, that they may fee your good
works, and glorify your Father which is
in heaven."
To the Editor of the General Advert'ifer.
Sir,
The ilatement I made in your paper of
the sentiments of a member from Mafia
chufetts is to the best of my knowledge li
terally true, and for the truth of it I will
appeal to the members themselves and to
the citizens in the gallery. If I have er
red in the statement, it has been in that
gentleman's favor ; for he went farther
than I have suggested and said that " the
Executive had the right to withold its
communications, and that after they had
been entrusted to Congress confidentially,
Congress had no right to ast otherwise than
confidentially upon them."—So far from
the speech having a tendency to vindicate
republicanism, it made an obvious impres
sion to the contrary, not only on my mind,j
but on the minds of a number present, witli
whom I conversed on the subject; the feiii
timents exprefied by that member were
not only hostile to republicanism itfelf, but
cast a reflection on Congress, the repre
sentatives of freemen.—lf the executive has
the right to keep Congress ignorant of
its tranfaftions, if Congress have not the
authority to ast upon communications
from the executive as they think proper,
the President is paramount to the people,
and Congress the mere creatures of execu
tive authority.
This is a change of sovereignty, and
may be within this gentleman's ideas of
republicanism ; but, I trust, will never
receive the function of the free citizens of
America,
GRACCHUS.
Dec. 31, 1793,
# , v * In th? piece copied from the Ge
neral Advertiser last evening, the follow
ing sentence was omitted through inadver
tence :—" Facts, Mr. Bache, (hould not
be misrepresented."
For the Gazf.ttf. if the United States.
THOUGHTS
On Insurance—Corporations, &c.
THE designs of those who wish to
obtain an ast of Incorporation of the In
surance company of North America, in
its prcfent state, may be perfectly proper,
as the institution is now in a very regular
way of bufmefe, and owned chiefly by the
merchants, who give employment to the
company.
Yet the neceflity of such application
does by no means exist at this time—if as
it is every where confrjl, the form of their
policy may be made to answer the fame
purpose, by an addition of a single clause
only—Stating that the a (lured agrees to
hold the capital flock of the companv,
fubjedl only for the payment of all lodes
incurred by the company—and that the
company agree to abide by the event of any
suit recovered agninjl their President only,
as far as their capital Jlocl held in trujl
by the fa 'ul President, and the Secretary of
the society for th? purpose may extend, and
r.o further —And as the capital (lock is
thought to be, greater than can ever be
necelTary in the word of all poflible events,
it is presumed, that much more has been
said on the fubjeft of the incorporation,
than in the event it can be found to deserve.
I am told, that a member of the house,
proposed by way of answer to the mer
chants, that he would have an incorpora
tion on an entire new plan—and open to
every body, or he would have none ; the
impropriety of such a plan, in such instan
ces, will ftrikc at firll view, whether this
<was said in contempt or not, is out of the
qucjlion—an insurance company cannot ex
ist, but by the aid of the merchants—As
this body of citizens have wen used to do
this business by way of exchange for each
other, they were averse to any company
for some time, but finding that the exit
ing company .as formed in part of mtr
tji; fuft infta c*. the reft have
lince bought in at an advanced premium—
line*'v.hi. h, thf: \alue of the stock hap
fallen upon their hands, to not more than
half tKc amotlnt of the par and premiums,
which will (hew that another company
cannot succeed, even iii the Jubfcription on
ly, unless this (hould be done by the igno
rant, and the unwary.—ln the city of
London, there are but two (hip insurance
companies, and yet they have never been
able to divide more than three to five per
cent per annum—How then can two be
supported in this*city? and how would
a man of principle feel, if after having
pafled a law to incorporate persons for
they scarce know what ? If the event
(hould be to injure as many, as in the in
(lance of the Canal Companies, &c. for if a
fubfeription was opened, thus in effect to
injyre the merchants, by an attempt to rob
them of their ancient rights of insuring
their own property, it could not succeed ;
it would be like a resolution of the house
to incorporate the brick makers by the
name of the Company of Tailors; and
the giving to every one a chance, thus
to injure the merchants would not be more
likely to succeed in the end, (as the power
must finally reft with the merchants to give
their business where they please) than if
the house were to fay that the brick mak
ers (hould in future make the wearing ap
parel for every citizen of Pennsylvania.
- ,1-utS
An Enemy to Unneceffliry Corporations*
UNITED STATES.
CINCINNATI, November 23
On Monday lajl a detachment of about 6oq
men, under the command of brigadier gene
ral IVilkinfon, arrived here from Head
Quarters. They are expccted to return short
ly, except the light dragoons, who hove gone
into Kentucky to -winter.
On their way in, near Fort Jqfferfon, a
dragoon in advance of a fmallparty % was
fired, up on and killed. .
LEXINGTON, November 23.
JVe have jujl received information, that
fame time lafi week, the Indians killed two
I men near Maiflte 9 s Jkttion on the Ohio ; and
fired on fiveral boats between Eimsfionc and"
Cincinnati;—Alfo, that a few days ago
some hunters were driven in from Eagle
Creek, and others chafed near Frankfort by
the Indians. A man arrived in Gevrge
-1 own late on Friday evening who informed,
that two Indians fired at him thai afternoon,.
within a mile of Frankfort.
Nov. 30. We hear from Cumberland r that
about ten days ago, 25 volunteers fell in with
a party of about the fame number of .Indians,
about fifteen miles from Nafioville ; a very
hot engagement ensued, in which three of the
volunteers were killed and four wtwnded;
they killed four of the Indians and twk two
prifoners, together with all their baggage.
PROVIDENCE, December 2j,
Extract of a letter from a gentleman of e
minence in Philadelphia, to his firiend.
here.
A merchant in London writes, tlnit he
was present when a gentleman of the firft
mercantile character waited on Lord
Hawke(bury, on behalf of a considerable
number of the London merchants.—He
told Lord H. that he came to him for an
explicit answer from government, as to i he
situation of public affairs between America
and England : That the merchants were
alarmed at the rumor of an expe&ed war,
and wished to hear from him the true state
of this question—because, if such an event
was to happen, they ought to be put on
their guard, that proper steps might in
time be taken to protest their distant pro
perty, and future engagements. The an
swer given was, " \ou may make your
selves easy ; the government have not the
lead disposition to go to war with Ameri
ca, nor has America any interest or incli
nation to quarrel with us. While General
Washington is at the head, and the
friends to the Federal Government are the
majority, we fhail have no war with Ame
rica, you may depend. If any irregularities
should happen on either fide, discussion and
accommodation will take place."
" Other letters from London
with confidence of another campaign in
Europe. As to ourielves, I do not be
lieve we (hall have a war, Mr. Genet rwt
withjlanding."
FALMOUTH, (Jamaica) Oift. 2
It is with unfeigned sorrow the Printer
communicates to the Public the following
melancholy fccne which took place at
Montego Bay, o:. Monday last, occaftn-■tremer.&Bous fwe.
*■' 1
which'fet in suddenly the preceding day,
atid continued to increase to a degree un
known to the oldest inhabitant. The
particulars were received last night by a
letter from a gentleman who was a fuf
terer in this dreadful calamity, which
beggars description.
£ Four ships, 3 brigs, a snow, 2 schoo
ners, 3 Hoops, and seven fmalkr veflcls,
went on ihore, and mostly gone to pieccs ;
many lives were loft ; a number of build
ings down, and wharves torn to pieces.—
The whole of the lower part of the Bay,
from Smith's wharf to the east end of
Meagre Bay, is fcveral feet covered with
sand ; and large log;- of mahogany, fuftic,
&c. are bt'.r'.ed in it.]
Amidst the foregoing painful scene (if
diltrefs, which the Printer has occasion to
relate, it is a pleasure to mention the brave
and humane conduit of a iailor on board
the Langriflie who, when lhe struck,
threw a fmail line to'people on fnore,who
were drawn there by the cries of the
crew, to afford what relief they could:
A large rope was fattened by thsm tp it,
which he drew to the vessel and secured; by
means of this conveyance, upwards of
twenty people got on (hore ; the others
who remained were by this man, hfhed to
a fecord rope, and by this means laved :
he lastly came on shore himielf, when re
collecting an old foreigner, whole life had
been preserved by a dog on board the
Lar.grifhe, jumped overboard before she
parted, he swam off, and secured him :—
his last carc was directed to the faithful
animal just mentioned, whom this worthy
tar swore ihould not go to wreck after
saving the life of a human creature.
North-Carolina Legislature.
The committee on public bills, to whom
was referred the address of his Excellen
cy Richard Dobbs Spaight, Esq. Go
vernor, &c. &c.
REPORT,
That having had under their serious
consideration the said address : Your com
mittee have thought proper to submit the
following answer thereto :
SIR,
T H E communications which your
Excellency was pleafcd to make to both
Houfea ol the Legislature last Wednes
day, have been received with fatisfaftion
and will be acted ujion in the course of
the present feflion, with that deliberation
which is due to their nature and magni
tude.
Your efforts during recess to pre
serve the peace and neutrality of the Uni
ted States have not escaped public notice,
and the success with which they were
crowned ought to call forth our mofl fer
vent fuppiications to Divine Providence,
for the continuation of blessings so eflen
tial to our national happiness.
The pepple of the United States being
allied to the French by treaty and the still
more sacred ties of principle and gratitude,
we liave every reason to be allured that
our obligations to that republic will be
liberally conflrued and faithfully executed ;
But while the powers of construing and
performing such engagements remain ves
ted by the conflitution in particular de
partments, any attempt to influence their
decisions by threatning an appeal to the
public, would evince a mistaken estimate
of the character of a people who regard
order as the essence of civil liberty.
To pursue political happiness and glory
"by rational means is the right of even
nation ; and as individuals in full enjoyment
of those inestimable privileges which
Frenchmen now struggle for, we are con
strained, in obedience to the di&ates of
humanity, to wifli them complete success
—To require more would be to require
this country to relinquish its neutrality,
its peace and with them its growing pros
perity—a facrifice not required by our en
gagements and not less incompatible with
the duties which a government owes to
its own citizens than with that liberality
and friendfhip which an enlightened peo
ple evidenced towards this country on try
ing occasions. Under these impressions
and with these sentiments we regard the
President's proclamation of the 22d of
April lafl, as a new proof of that pater
nal care and patriotic vigilance which have
so eminently chara&erized a life devoted
to the welfare of his native countrv.
Surmises, too often the result of rnifap
prehenfion or mistake, cannot abate our
confidence in the virtues of an officer whose
attachment to the cause of Freedom has
been equalled only by hi s exertions in its
:1 of the sea,
defence-—Nor <Jan we too highly approve
the condutt of your Excellency in giving
efScacv and support to his injunftiona of
neutrality within the ilate of North-Caro
lir.a Such prompt attention to the
molt precious interests of the public, en
title you to the thanks and confidence of
vour constituents.
which is submitted
Benj. Smith, Chairman.
North-Carolina.
In Senate, C)th December 1793, the
foregoing report being read, resolved una
mmoufly, that this house do concur there-
with
By order,
S. Haywood, C. S.
111 the hoiife of commons, 12th De
cember 1 793, resolved, that the huiile do
concur with this report.
By order,
J. Leigh, S. H. C.
JNO. Hunt, C. H. C.
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY I.
Extradt from a letter written by a gentle
man in Lilbon to his friend in this city,
dated. 2-iil Odtober, 1793.
" As to politics I have only to tell you
in brief, that the arms of the combined ty
rants seem to carry every thing before
them again ft the alienors' of liberty in
France—and indeed, from the treachery
and corfufon which prevail in the Conven
tion—and you may fay, in every part of
that devoted country—little else can be
expected. I hope America will be wife
enough to avoid having any thing to do
with war, which in its consequences would
certainly destroy all its profpech of happi
ness ; and yet it is suggested that the
Minister lately sent out to you from
France, went with the intention of bringing
you into it—at lead that it was one part of
his errand. I trust however he will fail in
his views, if any such he entertained ; for I
have a more exalted opinion of the wisdom
of the Americans, than to suppose they
will fuffer themselves to be fafcinated into
measures Jo dejlrudive of their true interest.
Col. Humphreys is at Gibraltar on his
way to Algiers—gone with the expedi
tion of accommodating matters in behalf
of America with those pirates—God grant
he may succeed. 'Tis said the applica
tion for a convoy was rather in too lofty a
tone for this Court. Mr. Humphreys
is a man of superior talents, and more
pleasing manners—as such he will always
fuccecd in obtaining favors, which the Mi
nister here will spurn at, when solicited in
an imperious manner.
General Galbaud is teturned to New-
York from his tour through Canada. He
calls upon the Miniiter of the French Re
public for a passage to France. This
would have been granted him long since
had he not taken himfelf off. In his let
ter to the minister he declares his inno
cence and denounces the National Com
missioners at St. Domingo and ininifter
here as criminal agents.
General Galbaud was appointed just be
fore the treacherous manoeuvres of Dumou
rier were executed, through the recom
mendation of Beurnonville, whose concern
with Dumourier is more than problema
tical.
He came out in the capacity of military
governor, or general of St. Domingo.
On his arrival, the civil commissioners re
presented to him that his appointment
was a violation of a national decree, which
declares, that no person poflefling proper
ty in the illand could hold an office there.
He apparently acquiesced, and embarks
ed for France on one of the ships of force
that were to convoy a fleet of merchant
veflels then nearly ready to fail.
As soon as he was embarked he tamper
ed with the officers and crews of the fleet,
attacked and was the cause of the confla
gration of the Cape and of the misfortunes
which have followed that catastrophe.
Part of the convoy arrived here and Ge
neral Galbaud on board. He and his a
gents were no doubt at the bottom of the
disturbances on board some of the ships of
force while they lay at New-York, and
perhaps he was the cause of the defedlion
of the fleet which failed upon, some secret
expedition. \et this is the man who ap
pears so anxiously felicitous to be tried by
his constituents in France, though he
judged it expedient firft, it seems, to try
his fortune in Canada. Ccn. Adv.
Wk. Lenoir, S. S.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES
Veduefday Jan. i, 1794.-
Mr. Sprigg and Mr. Forreft, members
from the State of Maryland, appeared,
were qualified and took their leats.
Mr. S. Smith presented the memorial
of fuadry citizens of Baltimore, stating
the situation of a large number of French
emigrants from Hiipaniola, who arrived 1
at that place the pail summer—the me-'
morial informs the house of the measures
taken by the inhabitants of Baltimore for
their relief—the sums contributed for that
purpose, &c. and solicits further assistance 1
from Qongrefs—referred to a feledV com
mittee.
The petition of Daniel Parker, of Wa
tertown, in the State of Maffachiifetts
was read and referred to the Secretary of
the Treafuiy.
Tlje memorial of Thos. Claxton, assis
tant doorkeeper, was read, stating that
in conference of the encreai'ed number
of the members of the house, he had been
obliged to employ additional assistance in
his office, and praying that the hotife
woidd make provision for the expertce
laid on the table.
A supplementary report from the Sec
retary of State on the fubjeft of foreign
commerce was received and read—ordered
that IJO copies be printed.
A meflage was received from tne Presi
dent of the United States, communica
ting a statement of the receipts and ex
penditures of monies appropriated by law
to defray the expences of the intercourse
between the United States, and foreign
nations, from July 1, 1792, to July 1,
1793—
From this statement it appears that one,
hundred and eighty three thousand dollars
had been debited to the Department of-
State—and that one hundred, seventy fix
thousand, four hnndred and thirty two
dollars, and twenty two cents, had been
expended—laid on the table.
Cons.dental business being called up,
the galleries were cleared.
Legislature of Pennsylvania.
Houfi of Reprefentatiws.
Monday, December 30.
On motion of Mr. Evans the documents
feat from the Governor by the Secretary of
the Commonwealth refpe&ing the (late of
the public contracts for opening roads and
rivers, were referred to the committee ap
pointed to enquire and report on that fub
jeft.
Mr. Swanwick brought in a report on
the communications of the Governor, ref
pe&ing the' communications from the
Lieutenant Governor of Maflachufetts,
and the Governor of Virginia, onthefub
ject of procuring amendments to the con
stitution of the United States, so far as it
relates to the matter of allowing an indivi
dual state to be sued out of the courts of
tfie I mted States—the resolution recom
mends the uniting with the other states in
remonstrating to Congress.
A meflage was delivered by the secreta
ry of the commonwealth from the Govern
or, informing that he has made two pay
ments to the Bank of Pennsylvania of mo
ney borrowed agreeably to law, viz. one
of jo.ooo Dollars some time since ; the
other of 30,000 dollars paid this day.
Do&or James and Doctor Woodhoufe
are appointed Physicians of the Dispen
sary, in the room of Dr. Pennington, de
ceased, and Dr. Griffitts, resigned.
" A friend to the pcace of America,
congratulates his countrymen, upon the
uncommon unanimity which fubiilU be
tween both branches of Congress, and the
President of the United States. Al
though heretofore there might have been
a difference among ourselves upon some
small points, yet (like man and wife who
have been in the habit of bickering a little)
we unanimously oppofc all foreign inter
ference."
From a Correspondent.
The sentiment that the government re
sides in the people is not true—that free
government originates in,and emanates from
a majority of the people is the only repub
lican idea that can be reduced to practice
—but this majority does not poflefs abso
lute power—the majority isasmuch bound
by the Conrtitution as individuals are by
the laws—and even where no written Con
fi'.tution exists—the minoritypofTeffcs un.
alienable Rights which cannot be inv-or
without violating- the principles of nat->
and reason.—Hence murder, fraud
roi<heiy o'o nut ciiaogc their efiential ti.«
pitude, under any poilib'e circurr.fta:
—and despotism in this view of thiii" , 1
comes a rehiive term—it miy be e:;- '
ed by be:l'. or men, by !!c mp'e'rit*,
well as by an individu.'L
riut bodies aaa cwnitimiltk* of ,
are capable of exercifmg arbitiary pom*';
is more than true—they will alw ays ?r, ■
invariably do it, when unreilraiued, in
checked and uncoijtrouled — and even
where these checks and reilraints ex-.fl,
there is a perpetual tho' perhaps, not a.
ways obvious exertion to absorb all power
into one center.
The revolutions of time, the fucceiiicu
of years, the progress of reason, the ad
vancement of science, the encrcaiing light
of civil liberty, and the appreciation of th=.
Rights of Mankind—all point the view,
of the calm and contemplative observer,
to a period of exigence, more splendid
and and too re congenial and ho
norary to human nature, than hath yet
dirtinguiihed the annals of the world-t-
But may we not rationally extend our
profpedt it! 11 further—and connect the
present with the future—On the verge of
this sublunary scene the virtuous mind
would look back with convulsed emotions
of regret, could it consider the curtain then
ready to drop, as involving in eternal for
getfulnefs all that has pal Ted—asd —as a con
clnfion to all the labors of the wife and be
nevolent friends of mankind—as the m
flus of hope and human perfection—as the
point where the designs of Deity mill be
arrested in their progress, and thus render
imperfect the plan of creation.
This can never be the ri.\Jt of the prr
fent progreft of man,& the evident approx
imation of human knowledge to higher
degrees of perfection—There is a nexns
between time and eternity—and hurr,.
nature refined and exalted, (hall pass !" tn:
grade to grade to that region
" Where Godjhines forth in one eternjl J. v .
Virtue folefurvives,
Immortal, never failing friend of man,
His guide to happiness on high. And, fee !
' Tis come, the glorious. morn ! the second
birth
Of He?. ven and Earth ! awakening nr.ture
hears .......
The new creating ivor.!, and flails to life;
In eveiy heightened form, from pain and
death
For ever free. The gnat,eternal f;h eric.
Involving all, and in a petftfl Ivhqle-
Uniting, as the prospect wider sp reads.
To reasons eye refin'd clears up apace.
From a Bofion P'a£cr.
" As further duties are suggested to
be necefiary to be laid to answer the exi
gencies of government, and the molt easy
and convenient mode is recommended, it
is that the objects of future tax
ation will be those of the BANK DIVI
DENDS, TRANSFERS, FUNDING
STOCKS, &c. &c. A revenue from
these sources, will operate tire moil easy
on the community at large, and fall on the
class of people who are the m»Ji able to as
sist government in their present exigencies.
The TRADE has already its full pro
portion of the weight of government, and
the AGRICUL lUR Al. interell ought
not to be burdened with any immediate du
ties, as the farmer now pays a tax by the
impost and excise."
EPIGRAM.
" WHAT's falhionatile I'll maintain
" Is always right," cries sprightly Jane ;
" Ah ! would to Heav'n !" cries gravei'
Sue,
" Wliat's right, were fafliionable too."
Cj* The Convention of Delegates appoin -
ed by the Abolition Societies ejlablijhed in the
differentiates, are to meet at the City-Hail,
This Evening, at Six o'clock.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Philadelphia, January I, 1794.
6 per cents,
17/9 to iod.
ijj'io to 10/.
lofy to loa'.
10 per cent, advance.
3 d '"°.
Deferred,
U. S. Bank,
N. A. ditto,
Pennfjlvania do. 5
ditto
ditto
The Fuji em Mail not arrived.
Thomson
Cj IJ,
ditto.Just Imported,
F.om Loudon, Dukhn anilGi.isaoir,
A'd ««iw nocnMig for *ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Mariel Jlneet,
A La roc and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Regifterfor 1792
European Magazine ior the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Gmpire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Disney's life of Dr. Jortin
D'Anville's ancient geography
Memoirs of Guy Joli
Variety, a collection of efiays
King of Prussia's works
Calm obserVer—by Mackintolh
Kuflell's ancient and modem Europe
I-anghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Sangnier and Briflon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain .
Taffo's Jerusalem delivered
Smcllie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's hiftoiy of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
Hftory of birds
Philips'* history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vol'.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan'* dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Mu-phy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kilfes of Secuodus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
T ravels
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immaterial! ni
Bcrchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 v °' s *
Helvetiui on man
Kalmes's sketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignns
Mawe's gardener's di&ionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of folitudc
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. & IHd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols-
Wanley's wonders of the little world, calico
man .
Walli# on the prevention of difcafes
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruflia,Poland,&:c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiqnities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid-
wifery
Manning's practice of phytic
Cleghorn'« diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nichplfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's dilTertation*
London practice of physic
Bell's surgery
Cbaptal's chemistry.
CJ" Terms of Suhfcription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of persons
who rej'uli at a diflnncc from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publicat ion.
Advertifementt, of onefquare, or less, in
fer ted four times for One Dollar—once, for
Fist v Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line, and Subscrip
tions, will be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourlhflrert,fivi doors north of the
Indian t.
A New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by
R. AIT KEN,
No. 22, Market fired,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philadelphia, for promoting Ufeful
Knowledge, Vol. 3* Pike *of in boards
fcT T!»e fubferibers are requested to call r
as above dire«sted for the 3d v °l* w here may
be had, complete setts uniformly printed.
Contents of Vol. 3d.
1. An elTay on those enquiries in Natural Phi
losophy, which at present are mod benefici
, al to the United States of North America.
Dr. Nicholas Collin,
а. Conjectures concerning the formation of
the earth, &c. Dr. B. Franklin.
3. A new and curious theory of Light and
Heat. E)r. B. Franklin.
4. Defcript on of the process to be observed
iu making large (beets of paper in the Chi
nese manner, with one smooth furface.
Dr. &. Franklin.
5. Queries and conjectures relative to Mag
netism, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
б. Explanation of a singular phenomenon, firft
observed by D»" Franklin, and not fatisfac
to« ily accounted for. Mr. R. PatterJon.
7. An account of an Earthy Substance found
near the tails of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls; together with
some remarks on the Falls.
Robert M'CauJJtn, M. D.
8. Observations on the probabilities of the
duration of Human Life, and the progress
of population, in the United States of Ame
rica. William Barton, Esq.
9. A letter containing observations madfc at
Lake Erie, on that singular phenomenon,
by seamen termed looming.
Andrew Eilicot Esq.
10. An Account of the Sugar Maple-Tree
of the United States, and of the methods
of obtaining Sugar from it, together with
observations upon the advantages both pub
lic ar private of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rujh, M.D.
11. Memoir on the use of the Thermometer
in discovering Banks, Soundings, See.
Jonathan William, Esq.
12. An Account of the raoft effectual means
of preventing the deleterious consequences
of the bite of the Crotalus Horridus, or Rat
tle Snake. Benjamin Smith Barton, M. D.
13. Magnetic Observations, made at the Uni
versity of Cambridge, (Maflachufetts.)
Dr. S. Willia.ms.
14. Accurate determination of the right af
ceniion and declination of Bootes, and the
Pole Star. Andrew Ellicott, Esq.
15. Account of several Houses in Philadelphia,
ft ruck with Lightning, on June 7th, 1789.
David Rittenhoufe % Esq.
16. An Account of the effects of a stroke of
Lightning on a Houle furnilhcd with two
ConduCtors. David and Francis
Hopkinfon, Efqrs.
17. Experiments and Observations on Evapo
ration in cold Air. C. Wijiar, Al. D.
18. Postscript to Mr. Barton's Letter, to
Dr. Rittenhoufe, of the 17, of March, 1791.
19. New Notation of Music.
Mr. R. Patte T Jon.
20. Observations on the Theary of Water
Mills, &c. IV. Waring.
19. Agronomical Observations.
David Rittenhoufe•
20. A letter relative to a method of finding
the sum of the several powers of the Sines,
&c. David Rittenhoufe y tjq.
21. Index Florae Lancaftrienfis.
Henrico Muhlenberg, D. D.
22. Tnveftigation of the power of Dr. Bar
ker's Mill, as improved by James Rumfey,
with a description of the mill. W. Wiring.
23. A Thermometrical Journal of the tem
perature of the Atmofplrere and Sea, 011 a
voyage to and from Oporto, with explana
tory observations thereon.
Jonathan Williams, tjq.
24. Fi'ft memoir of observations on the plants
denominated Cryptogamick.
M. De Beauvois.
25. A letter, containing observations on the
ancient works of Arr, the Native Inhabi
tants, &c. of the Western Country.
Major Jonathan Heart.
26. An account of some of the principal dies
employed by the North American Indians.
Extracted by the late Mr. Hugh Martin.
27. An account of the beneficial effe&s of the
Caflia Chamaecrifta in recruiting worn-out
lands, and in enriching foch as are natural
ly poor ; together with a botanical descrip
tion of the plant.
James Green way of Virginia.
2 8. An account of a hill on the borders of
North Carolina, supposed to have been a
volcano, in a letter from a Continental of
ficer, to Dr. J. Greenwayi Virginia.
29. An Account of a poisonous plant, grow
ing spontaneously in the southern part of
Virginia. Extracted from a paper by
Dr. James Greenwav t Virginia.
30. Description of a Machine for meal'uring a
(hip's way. Francis Hopkinfon, Esq.
31. All Inquiry into the question, whether the
Apis Mellifica, or true Honey-Eee, is a na
tive of America. Benjamin Smith Barton^M.D.
32. An Account of a Comet.
David Rittenhoufe, EJf.
33. Cadmus or a Treatise on the Elements of
Written Language, illuftratin*, by a Phild
fophical division of Speech, the power of
each chara&er, thereby mutually fixipg the
Orthography and Orthoepy. With an Elfav
oa the mode of teaching the Deaf, or Suxd
and co; f-queitlv Dumb, to bv Wm.
Thornton, M. D. Honored with the Ma-
gellanic Gold Medal, by the philosophical
Society, in December, 1792. "N. B.
Cadmus is printed in a fine 8. vol. and fold
by the Publilher hereof.
34. Obfervationt on the Theory of Water-
Mills. #"• Wtnnf.
35. An Improvement on Metalic Condu&ors
or L : ghtning rods. Mr. Robert Patlerjon.
Honored with Hie Magellanic Premium, by
an Award of the Society in December 1792.
36. An cafy and expeditious method of dis
sipating the noxious Vapour commonly
found io Wells and other fwbterraneous
place?. Ebenezer Robivfony £/f.
37. A method of draining Ponds in level
grounds. J e ][ e H'gg' nl '
38. Obfervationt on the severity of win
ter, 1779, 1780. Rev. Matthew Wilson.
39. A Description of a new Standard for
Weights and Measures; io a letter from
Mr. John Cooke, of Tipperary in Ireland.
40. Description of a Spring-Bi ock, dfefignod
to aflift a Veflel in failing. Francii liopkin-
Jon, Ess. Honored with the Magellanic
Gold Medal, by an Award oi the Society
in December 1790.
Decembtr 20.
ACOLLECTION OF
Valuable BOOKS,
In sundry Language, and on various Subje&s,
Confiding chiefly of the mod recent,
correct, and elegant
LONDON EDITIONS,
Neatly bound and lettered,
Also, a variety of
Stationary,
for st l t BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Chelnut-ftreet.
December 13.
ALL perrons having any demand against
the Estate and Effects of Mrs. MARY
SINDREV, widow, late of Frankford, Ox
ford township, in the State of Pennsylvania,
deceased; are desired to produce their ac
counts to Jacob Lesher and William Creed,
(in Frankford, aforefaid,) Executors and Ad
ministrators of the above in order for feitle
inent. And whoever is indebted to said Es
tate, &c. are requested to make payment to
the aforefaid Administrators, on or before the
16th of March, 1794, or they will be deal
with according to law,
Fraukford, Dec. 16.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subfcribar intending to Confihe himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE &SALEofr
STOCKS on COMMISSION, bfgs leave to of
fer his fcrvicesto his friends and others, in the
line ot a Slock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their bufmefs, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the uimoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will be ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLFECKKR.
ADVERTISEMENT.
N ew-Jeu sky, )DY virtue of a Writ tome
Suflex County, ff. { .D diretted, issued out of
the High Court of Chancery ot New-Jcrfey, at
the suit of William Shipley against John Ming
andotlwrs; I shall expose to sale at Public Ven
due, on the sixth day ol February next, between
the hours of TwfclVe and Five in the Afternoon
of the lame day, on the Premifra, the following
dcfcribed Tra&of Land, with its appurtenances,
situate in the Township of Oxford and County
of'Suflex, beginning at a Chefnut Oak Tree, cor
ner ol Daniel Cox's land, and ft.»nding in the
line of a foimer fuivey made to Thomas Steven
son, being marked with the letter B. and thence
extending along Coxc's line (firft) louth filty de
grees weft fifty-five chain* and fevenry-five links
to a Black Oak Treecorner of Joseph Shippen's
land (second) south nine degrees and fifteen mi
nute* well ninety chains and sixty five links to
a forked White Oak Tree, marked with the let
ters P and B ahother of the said Shippen'* cor
ners (third) thence north eighty degrees, east one
hundred and forty-five chains, to a post on the
southerly fide of Paouaofte-River, being also a
corner of John Reading's land (iourth) thence
north thirty-nine degrees weft, one hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place of beginning
containing nine hundred and thirtv acres with
the usual allowance for roads and high ways—
The fame Prrmifes are within eight miles of the
River Delaware, and there is thereon a conveni
ent Grift M»U with two pair of Stones—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fuflf-.cient stream of
water for their use—a Dwelling House, Store
House, and several small buildings.
MARK THOMPSON, Sheriff.
Dated 2ftd day of July, 1793.
To be Sold,
AT P P Iv A T £ SALE,
A Valuable Lot of 16
Aciet of LAND, lying on the great road lead
ing from Princeton to Trenton, i £ miles from
Princeton ; with a tan-yard, birk-houfe, beam
houfe and currying-fhop, a never failing ft-eam
of water running through the fame ; a good
dwelling-bouse, with an ent<y and two rooms
on the lower floor, and three on the upper floor;
a kitchen adjoining, with a ccllar under the
whole, and a well «f waier at the door ; also,
170 bearing apple-trees, and two or three acrei
o( watrred meadow. There wtil be an indis
putable titlt given- Any perlon inclining to
purchase, may know the terms of Lie by
plying to the Subfcribei on the premif«-«.
MATTHEW CLARKE,
September 14,1793.
Encyclopedia,
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookl'eller, at the Stone House, in Sccond
street Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionary
Of A ts, Sciences, and Milcellaneout
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
The Different Sciences and Art*,
are digejled into the form of
Diftinft Treaties or S> items :
THIS volume contains principles of
Liberty, Doctrine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithm*, Logic, History of Lon
don, Longitude. Luther, Lydia, Micedtm,
Madagascar, 'Magic, Magnetism, Malts, Hil*
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland*
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illultrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates*
As a number of families are (till in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor 1
of the subscribers to call or fend for their rd*
lumen, that they may be supplied as early as
poilible. ,
eod2w.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia.it
now pre fen ted to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an imperfect state, some ac
count of the reason of that imperfection Ihould
be tfiven. On the Bth of September last, the
Publisher had the misfortune of having bis
Printing-Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the figuies, with
which he was printing the tables of lo
garithms, belonging to the prel'ent volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the neceflity bf pub
Hilling the volume without the e tables; but
hopes he /ball be able to publifli them with the
next volume which is now in considerable for-
wardnefs.
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
expressing his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for thb very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to suCh of the Pubfcribers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible ncceflity of
punctuality, both in taking up the volumes as
early as poflible after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the sub
scribers having got only one, two, three, &c.
volumes, and-teveral volumes remain vnp aid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
tliefe trifles unpaid lays the Publisher under
very serious embhrraflment, and deprives him
of the use of many Thousands «>f Dollars which
at this time would be of very cflential service.
For these reasons the Publiflier finds himfelf
under the neceflity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those who
take and pay to the time of publication.
t&ftf.
December 10.
Philadelphia, Nov. 21, 1793.
The Stockholders ofthe
BANK of the UNITED STATES, are hereby
informed, that according to the (laiute of incor
poration, a General Elc&ion for Twenty-five
Direfto»s, will be heid at the Bank of the Uni
ted States, in the City of Philadelphia, on Mon
day the 6 h of January next, at ten o'clock in
the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh fc&ion of the
bye-laws, the Stockholders of the said B-rnk, are
hereby notified,to aflemble in general meeting,
at the fame place, on Tuesday the 7th day of
January next, at five o'clock in the evening.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
SECOND Fundamental Article—Not more
than three-fourths of the Directors in office, ex
clusive of the Prefidenl, (hall be eligible for the
next fuecr-eding year : Bui the Director, wh«
fhali be Prefidenr at the lime ot an ele&ion, may
a I w ay« be re* ele&ed.
At a meeting of the Dire£lor» of the Infurancc
Company of North America, Nov. 25, 1793.
Resolved,
THAT no transfer of stock be made on the
books ot this office between the 15th day
of June and the firft Monday in Jolv, and be
tween the li'h day of December and the firft
Monday ef ]anuary following, in each year.
Extaft from the minutes,
F.bf.nezer Hazail, Secretary.
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
December 16.
try Gentlemen, in poffeffton of Subscription
papers for this Gazette, are requefhd /•
transmit tbem to the Editor's Office.
PHILADELPHIA :
Punted by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourtk-Street.
[<T4*J
Vol. X.
by WHICH
* aawtij.
m*&f to 6 Jan,
TO BE SOLD,