J
i
' E
VENING ADVER T ISER.
[No. 91 of Vol. V.]
For Amsterdam,
The new fail-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
lIJI ADRIANA.
K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient (peed. For freight or paflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. (J JOHN KETLJND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794- _
For Sale or Charter,
A Nil ROM AC HE,
(An American bottom)
John Moore, Master.
IS a ft»ut good veffil, about two years oM,
burthen 232 ton', has only made three voy
»jes, anil may be.sent to lea at a I mall ex
pence. She maybe seen at Vine-street whart,
and the terms made known by application to
WHARTON is? LEWIS.
March 2i
T/jf American Brig
R I T O N,
BURTHEN 700 barrels, with her tackle
and appaiel as (he came from sea, She is a
Haunch veflel, not two years old, and may be
put to sea immediately. For terms apply
to
GARDINER & OLDEN,
Arch Street wharf,
Who have for [ale,
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
a quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and a few
casks Timothy Seed —also
Pig and Bar Iron, and Iron call
ings, in any form executed on the
ihorteft notice.
March 14.
TO BE SOLD,
And entered upon the firft o May,
The noted EJlate, called
Johnson Hall:
Lying in the Mohawk country," (late of New
Yoik, tormelly the feat of Sir William John
son, containing about seven hundred acres of
land, which is of the very best quality ; toge
ther with the flock, and farming uienfils. The
buildings are large and convenient, and fit for
a genth man's feat. The payments will be made
eafv, on good security. Forfuither particutars
inquire of George Metcalf, Esq. on the premis
es, of Silas Talbot, Esq. at Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Broihers, in New York, or
of the iublciibcr in Providence.
Jabez Bow pi.
mw&fi m
Philad. March 26
Treasury of Pennsylvania,
February 14, 1794*
PUBLIC Notice it hereby given to all perlons
indebted 10 the Commonwealth, tor monies
borrowed of the Trustees of the Loan Office,
eftablilhed per ast of the 4th of April, 1785,
that the time is expired when the last payment
{hould have been made, and every juftifiable
indulgence having been granted, That unless
they come forward and pay off their refpeflive
balances on or before the firft day of April next,
precepts will issue against all delinquents with
out regard to persons or circumstances. All
foimer and existing (heriffs, who have money
in their hands belonging to said Office, are re
queued to bring it to me on or before the above
period, other wife I (hill be under the disagree
able necessity ot prolecuting them without dif
tinflion.
CHRISTI AN FEBJGER,
P. S. The Printers throughout rfie State are
rcqutfted to in'.crt the above in their papers for
the information of their fellow-citizens. d
A RECOMPENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby offered by the Ptcfilent and Direc
tors of the Bank of the United States, to any
person who (hall, on or belore'lhe fiiftrlayof
May next, produce to them such a plan and ele
vation ol a Banking House, as (hall be approved
of l>y them.—A plain, yet handsome Irom is
deGred : The whole butldtng is to be lubftantial
t and with as much space around it,
V at th-! size of\the ground will admit.
\ The Lot oh which the building is to beereft
\ td, isfltnatedon the weft fide ot Third street,
\ between Chefnut and Walnut ft.eets in Philadel
; and its demenfions are 1 lo feet on Third
®reel, and about 100 ft 11 westward.
THOMAS WILLING, President.
J ust Imported,
ii the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
Afe w bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Ovnaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, -viz. Tumblers and Mugs, -va
rious Jiz.es.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats, ,
A quantity of Junk and Oakutn, Of-
THOMAS KETLAND, Ju»
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
fljouldapplication be made -within a few days ;
other-wife she -will take freight for Amjler
dam.
March i, 1794'
IMPORTED
In the Brig George and Harriot, from
Havre de Grace y
AND FOR SALE BY
Louis Ofmont,
Afiortment of Hanging Paper,
high coloured and plain.
White silk Stockings, high drelfed and put
up Englilh falhion.
The handsomest ariificial Flowers and Fea-
th Some Looking Glass Plates to be fold by the
cafe. . . r _
A few hampers of Champaigne wine lix
vear3 old.
An elegant parcel of
Bearlkin MulTs,
And very beautiful Silk Cloak'', which on
account of the fealon will be fold low, and at
a long credit.
*diot
42 pipes Madeira wine,
and a few casks of Claret,
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns
In a few Days,
He mill have for /ale,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn hats, fans and cambricks, claret in
cases, a quantity of window glass well Tott
ed of al] fizei, and a few pair of remarkable
Looking Glafl'es framed, all arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
March 22
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, JAP ANN' D
PLATES, &c.
Done in the molt elegant manner, and after
the firft matters ; likewise,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finiihed at the shortest notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth streets.
March 4,
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased,
The House N°. 245,
Lot of Ground
On which it stands, wherein Jam t s BiddlE
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
street, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet lo inches in
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
Ix 7 feet deep. The whole will be fold fub
jedl to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their fucceflors
forever. For terms apply to
March i, 1794
AND
Friday, March 28, 1794.
FOR SALE BV
d—tf
A PERFECT
ALSO,
LIKEWISE
and
Samuel Coates,
Jonathan Jones,
Anthony Morris,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, dec'd,
*eop 3W
The following Certifi
cate of the funded three per Cent Stock of the
Dortiefttc Debt of the United Sta es Handing on
the books of the Treasury of the (aid United
States, tn the names of Donnald and Burton of
London, merchants, and signed by Joseph
N'ouife, Regtfter of said Treasury, to wit : —
No. 5476, dated 24th August 1792 for 2959
doliari and j3 cents was transmitted from LOll
- in the Jlhip Peter, Paul Huffey, master,
bound for New York, and has been lott.—
The Subfcriher intending to apply to the Trea
sury of Ihe United States to have the fame re
newed, dcGirs all persons who are intereftcd in
the said certificate, to make their objections
thereto, if any they have.
Francis Macy.
Philad. March 27
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Mai ket-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery:
Dcljgned to exhibit in a new point of view,
its effe£ks on murals % indujlry, and the peace of
society. Some ta&s and calculations are ottered
to prove the labor of Jiccmcn .10 be much more
fioduclive than that ot Jlavcs ; that countries arr
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the n-ccftuy conclusion, that
slavery ts impolitic as well .s unjujl.
d:f
Price 25 Cent?.
February 15,
lo be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nthday of April next,
at the house of John Thom/on, in Perth-
Arab oy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
THE Lot contains eleven acres, on which is
an orchard ot grafted apple trees, a well of
excellent water, a large stone c {tern, and a very
commodious stable and coach-house, and a great
quantity ot the best building stones in the walls
of the house, which was formerly built for the
rcfidence of the Governors of New-Jersey. The
rtiuaiior. of this Lot is so well known for its
healthiness and beautiful profpett of the Ramon
river to the weft of the bav, and Sandy-Hook to
the east, that a further defenption is unnrcefTary.
The conditions of sale will be, one third ot the
purchafc money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, when a good and fufftcirm Deed will
be given to the puichafer, by Walter Ro
therfurd, Esq. Prcfident of the Board of
Proprietors ot the Eatiern Divifmn of New*
Jersey, ana the remaining two thirds fatislafto
nly secured in equal annual payments.
By order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Rcgifter.
February 5,1794. 2aw2m
War Department.
January 30th 1794.
Information is heieuy given todii the
military invalids of the United States,that the
fains to which they are entitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on ihe sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Commiflioncrs of the Loans
within the Hates refpeftively, undet the ulual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and adminillratorj
mult be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpt&ive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By commana of the Prelid;nt
of the United Slates,
The printers in the respective states are
rcquefted to publtlh the above in iheir
pcrs lor the fv-ace of two months.
J;inuaiy 30
JAMKS LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
ihe public, That from ihe encouragement
he has teueived, refpe&ablc Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
VAPER LlNE—and would otfer his ferviccs to
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidenc
in him ; and he aifures those who employ him,
that their confidence (ball not be misplaced ; —
but it shall be his constant endeavor, to pay the
ftri&< It attention to their befl interest, in all ne
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber
in State-Street, over Mr. David Tozvnfend, Watch
Maket's £hop.——Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, ot all kinds, are bought and fold ; and
where Commiflion Business of all kinds, will be
tranfafted on reasonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be conllantly exposed tor faic, on
cominifiion.
+ ¥ * Cast for Salem, Providence, and
Pcitfrtum'h {jjLI.S
N. B. Ij any Gtr.tltman Philadelphia-, or
h'ew'Yvrk. bar tiny Bulmefs to tranjafi (it !'>cfUn
in Paper he mill be hoppytvii ttfi
plovcd on commi/jiuh
Bolton, }nn. t 794.
Congress of the United States.
A memorial of sundry inhabitants of the
town of .Salem, in Mailachui'etts praying
that Congress will adopt such measures, as
in their wisdom, may he deemed the most
expedient and effe&ual to obtain a redress for
the vexations, and spoliations committed on
the commerce of the United States, by the
fubje<£ls of Great Britain ; under the autho
rity of that government, as well as by the
fubje&s and citizens of other foreign coun
tries, was presented by Mr. Goodhue.
Also a memorial of sundry citizens of the
state of South-Carolina, to the fame effedt,
was presented by general Pickcns.
Committee of the whole on the ftat of
the Union, reported the following refuta
tion, which was agreed to.
d6w
" Resolved, That mealurcs ought to be
immediately taken, to render the force of
the United States more efficient.
Mr. Parker proposed the following rc
folutions, which were fecondcdt
litia be enrolled in tlu United States ;
that all freemen capable of bearing arms
from the age of to co.n
pofe a lelett militia, and that they be arm
ed and accoutred at the general expense.
" Resolved, That the several states {hall
officer the fele& militia aforefaid, eiil'fT
out of the officers of the militia now
commissioned, or such other persons as
they may think proper."
" Resolved, That the said feleft mili
tia be called together as often as may be
directed by the kgiflatures of the several
states, not exceeding days, in one
year, and for the time they are so called
out, they (hall receive the fame pay and
rations, as the troops of the United
States."
States (hall have power to call into a thud
service, such portion or portions of the
feleft militia, as may be deemed necefi'a
ry for the common defence."
" Resolved, That no feleft militia-man
shall be called into actual service for more
than one year." Committed to a com-
H. KNOX,
Secretary oj War.
d 2 m
Blv&i.t"
[Whole No. 550.]
House of Representatives
Monday, March 34,
" Resolved, That a feleft corps of mi-
" Resolved, That in cafe of invasion or
infurredtion, the President of the United
mittee,
Adjourned.
PRANCE,
Extraßs from the Couriers Politique, and
the Departments.
National Convention and Club of "Jacobins.
Gaillard the friend of Challier, killed
himfelf because he believed that he was a
bandoned by the patriots. ' \
Collot D'Herbois.—" Jacobins ! Some
persons wilh to moderate the Revolution
ary movement —take care of it—never for
get what Robespierre told you on this
fubjeft. Some persons wish to make you
eftablifti a committee of clemency, for the
purpose of there examining the prisoners,
and to distinguish the Aiiftocrats from
those who are not so. N6 clemency—be
always Jacobins and Mountaineers, and
LIBERTY (hall be saved."
Letters from Italy announce, that the
regency of Tunis obfrrves the strictest
neutrality with the French.
Revolutionary Tribunal. Nicholas Go
mot, baker, has been guillotined, for ha
ving secreted some bread.-
John Marie A'lard, curate of Bagneau,
has shared the fame fate, for having preach
ed up the counter-revolution.
Charles Prevot de la Croix, Creole of
South America, who refuted at Rochfort,
has been also guillotined, being convicted
by his correspondence of having excited
the war of St. Domingo, and contributed
to the arming the Mulattoes again It the
Whites. ' ,
The ex deputy Crangeneuve, was ar
retted tWr 26th of December, and execut
ed the d?v after, His blether, meipbc»f the fo-caUed Republican Commons, has
mudergone a like fate.
Alexander Marie la Roque, physician,
and victor Hyacinte la Roque, captain of
a man of war, have been guillotined.
The Convention has decreed, that the
aecufed who are of rank, (hould be deliver
ed over to the Revolutionary Tribunal.
They, are the following—Dietriche, ex
imyof of Strasbourg, Cuftine, jun. Biron,
Barthelemy, Mace, Quetineau, all ex-ge
nerals of tlx army in La Vendee, La Verg
ne, who commanded at Longwy, before
the capture of that city, is also amongst
the number of the acculed.
Letter of Garrier from Nantes
" The affair of Mans was so bloody, that
from the city as far as Laval the ground
was covered with the dead bodies.
The Rebels who had pafled the Loire,
have nearly all been killed on the (hore.
Not one of them escaped without the per
miffioa of General Moulin, who made
free to give pafTports to a number of re
bels—this general is now arrcfted, and
his place given to another.
At Ancenys, and at Nirot, the Royal
ists have all been maflacred, and several
pieces of cannon were taken.
Ths brothers La Roche Saquelin were
killed in palling the Loire.
The prisoners are so numerous, that
the guillotine is not fufficient. I have ta
ken the method, fays the deputy Carrier,
of having them all (hot to death.
Those of the royalists wh v j have effedl
ed an efca[le will not be able to join their
numerous friends in Le Morbihan : All
the paflages are occupied by the brave re
publicans. The lols of the rebels at An
gers, La Fleche, Ancenys, Le Mans, and
Blin, amounts to 30,000 men."
Another letter from Guimbertault, re
presentative of the people, confirms the
foregoing.
Letter of Thureau and Prieur de la
Morne—" We march over heaps of dead
bodies: The cavalry of the enemy are
flying before us—a part of it is extirmina
ied. The vittory is complete—myriads
of royalists have fallen. We have taken
such measures that ive -will not leave one of
them on the facc of the earth. The reft of
their artillery has been taken. Among
the enormous baggage captured from the
rebels is a Itrong chest, containing afiig
nats in the name of Louis XVII. and the
plate with which they made them.
" Biron, commander of the cavalry of
the royalists, the fame who rode the white
horse so famous in the hiitory of La Ven
dee, was killed by a Marlhal de Logis of
the Northern legion."
Another letter from La Vendee.—
" The battles of Saverny have put an
end to the deflgns of the soldiers of Jesus
Christ and Louis 17th. The remains of
the Catholic and Royal army were pursu
ed and slaughtered, even to the marshes
into which its soldiers were thrown."
A legion of French emigrants, which
has lately been formed, is commanded by
the Mirquis de Reznay. Amongst the
persons in this legion are counted Mr.
d'Harvilly, late commander of the consti
tutional guard of Louis XVI. so well
known by his conduct in Brittany, at the
head of the regiment of Rohan, of which
he was colonel, and above all by his cou
rage 011 the 10th of August ; also Gen.
Conway, MeiTrs. de la Chaise, de Clo
nard, O'Connell, de la Tour du Pin, d'At
taly, de Boifgelin, Baron Rochefoucault,
De Mauduit Dupledls, de Dampierre, &c.
The Republic of Genoa, an ariftocra
tical republic, if ever there was one, has
lately declared for the French.
According to the Leyden Gazette, all
the letters from Paris are filled with no
thing but details of the executions which
take place there and in the other principal
cities throughout France. At Bourdeaux
the son of the firft President of the Parlia
ment of Guyenne was guillotined the 22d
of November, and his father is threatened
with the fame fate.
Barnave has lately been condu&ed to
the guillotine. BrifTot and Condorcet could
never pardon him the efforts which he op
posed to the subversions of the Colonies,
nor the Jacobins could never forget the
fine speech which he pronounced in the
Constituent Aflembly in favor of Monar
chy and for the defence of Louis XVI.
relative to his flight to Varennes, and had
a long time marked him in their books of
proscription. Ht was arrested at Greno
ble in the month of August, 1792, a few
days after the imprisonment of the royal
family, nearly at the fame hour that his
friend Alexander Lameth was declared a
-■jcJ ' ier with IVL rp
ijot one of the lead Angularities of the
time in which we live, that two men, in
whom a limilarity of opinions was very
observable, should lose, one his liberty,
the other his life, i.y the resentments of
two parties directly opposed to each o-'
ther. Barnave, wh9 was condemned by
the Revolutionary Tribunal at the fame
time with the former Minister of Port de
Tertre, heard, like him, his sentence with
much composure. After it was read—
"Citizens!" fays he, "Revolutions, (lay
men—but, PolL'rity, will judge them !"
—He was anfwjrej by the cry of Vive
la Republique! Barnave was 32 years of
age.
Amongst other v'ftims immolated by
the guillotine, is the Mayor of St. Den
nis, named Cambon. Morlaix, an Aid
de-Camp to the army of the Eastern Py
rennes, has been (hot to d. ath. The
Bth of December the famous Countess du
Barry was guillotined ; the banker Van
denyver with his two sons, and the for
mer deputy Noel have undergone the fame
fate.
From Englijh papers received at Bojlon,
per Capt. Hoiuland.
BRUSSELS, Januarys
Intelligence has been received here,
that the blockade of Landau is raised. It
appears that the French - had continued
their attacks every day, until the 26th
ult. when they advanced early in the morn,
ing, in force against the Duke of Brunf
wick, who was at Bergzabern, with his
van-guard, commanded by prince Hohen
lohc: That the grenadier battalion of
Kleift, and two companies of chasseurs
advanced to meet the French ; that they
were at firft repulsed, but that prince Ho
henlohe then marched forward to their
support with some artillery, and that the
enemy was at last completely routed; That
towards mid-day, however, the attack was
renewed on he right of Gen. Wui mfer's
position, who was compelled to retreat,
and has since re-crofled the Rhine in two
columns. The duke of Brunfwick takes a
position to cover Mayence. A garrison is
left in Fort Louis.
A letter from Frankfort, December
29, has been received :
" The Imperialists, ported near Hague
nau, although attacked incefiantly, were
enabled to maintain their ground until
the 22d of Decemben On that day, the
Republican troops advanced against them
with such superiority of force, and with
such a tremendous train of artillery, that
after a very vigorous resistance, they were
forced to cvacuate Haguenau, and retreat
with great precipitation, to Sultz, near
Weifiembourg.
" It was deemed neceflary, however,
on the next day, to take a polition near
Weiflembourg, in order that the Imperi
aliits might not be so much exposed to the
inceflant attacks of the enemy, who in eve
ry attack come forward with frefh troops.
" The French, having obliged the al
lies to retreat from Haguenau, resolved to
persevere in that fyllem, which had pro
duced such important advantages to them.
On the 26th instant, a meflenger arrived
here, who brought the important intelli
gence, that a column of 22,000 Repub
licans, has pierced the right wing of Gen.
Wurmfer's army; that 4000 of their ca
valry had turned the red»ubts established
near Werth and Reichfhoven, and that,
meeting with no more obllacles, the ene
my attacked Gen. Wurmfer's army in the
rear of their position. Some battalions of
the troops of Hesse Darmstadt newly raised,
with the Palatine troops, who were port
ed in the entrenchments, gave way, and
by their flight, occasioned a general re
treat.
" The Pruflians, with the Imperialists.
being forced to change their position, to«k
that on the heights of Weiflembourg ; and
Gen. Wurmfer, moving from Sultz, ap
proached near to Weiflembourg. The
Republicans with the whole mass of their
forces, estimated at 120 and according to
others at IJO,OOO men, not giving our
brave troops a moment's reft, having con
tinually annoyed them for more than a
month past, made poftgrior to the 26th, a
general and irrefiftable attack on the cen
tre of the combined army which unable to
refill such a severe (hock, being moreover
exhausted with fatigue, and in want of
ammunition, were forced to retreat to
wards Spire and Manheim. The Duke
of Brunfwick, at the fame time was un
der the neceflity 'of retreating towards
Mentz.
" '.It
" 1 hus, the iiege of Landau is raised.
As it is supposed, that the French will
make further irruptions—families of all
dalles here, are preparing for flight.
" The raising of the siege of Landau,
is confirmed by a person, who from the
heights of Neuftadt, saw the French ar
my under the walls of Landau.
" Since yefterdy several hundred citi
zens, without any diftinftion of itate or
condition, have been busily employed in
working at the ramparts."
Extract of a letter from Manbeim, dated
December 2 &
" The French are advancing in three
columns, one towards Weifl'embourg, ano
ther towards Anweiler, and the third to
wards Lautern. The baggage of the
Auftrians has been removed to Ketfch,
near Spires—and that of the Pruflians to
Maykammer, one league from Neuftadt.
" Accounts have been received, that
the Auftrians have retreated to, and ta
ken up their Head-Quarters at Germer
(lieim. The siege of Landau is raised.
" Letters from Worms, dated Decem
ber 25, state, that the situation of the al
lies in Alsace, had become very critical,
after the a<ftion of the 2 2d. Most of she
inhabitants fled from Weifiembourg and
the Military Hospital was also removed
thence."
LONDON, Jan. 8.
Letters from Barcelona, of the Bth
ult. bring the Spanifli accounts, of the
check received bp the French army, late
ly mentioned in the Convention. These
letters fay that the Marquis de Caftrilo,
had driven the French from the valley of
Banuls, with the loss of two pieces of
cannon, and a great number of prisoners
—that on the 7th ult. at fix o'clock in
the morning, the Spanish Geneial Curf
tin, attacked the great camp of the
French, and their batteries of L'Ermi
tage. Both these attacks were so fuc
cefsful, that at nine o'clock in the morn
ing, the Spaniards were completely mat
ters of the field, and the French camp,
took 24 pieces of cannon, and a vast
quantity of ammunition, and provisions,
besides 600 prisoners. The loss of the
Spaniards, does not exceed 200 men both
killed and wounded—and, that of the
French, in killed, is affi'rted to be very
considerable.
CONGRESS.
House oj Representatives,
Thursday, March 27.
Sketch the important Delate of yefterHay, on tb.
./ - '1 - - - J „
fubjeft oj indemnity and lequeitratfon
AF l hR the private business was over, Mr. !Ma
difoiifaid if no gentleman had any thing to propose,
which in the present juri&ure was deemed of an
urgent nature, he should call for the commercial
regulations, which, though less prefling than some
other fubjetts, yet required a liecifion.
Mr. Mnith (S C.) then rose and laid he had pre
pared a motion on a lubjeft which to him appeared
nrgent, and to require the early attention of Con
gress. It was the fubjeit ot indemnity to the own
ers of vessels and cargoes which bad been captured
by some of the belligerent powers, contrary to the
law of nations. He mentioned several reasons why
this business ihould now be determined on; these
were, the neceflity of an e-rly hquidation and as
certainment of the claims of the lufferers, in order
to enable the executive to demand reparation—to
enable the committae of ways and means to form a
better estimate of the public exigencies—to hold out
some comfort to the unfortunate fufferers and a pro
fpetl of relief, without which many might be in
duced to abandon their callings, and perhaps to emi
grate to other countries. He said lie was strongly
impressed with the principle that where our citizens
were pursuing a lawtul trade, and were despoiled of
their property, that the government not having af
forded protection, was bound to make compensation,
fubjed to a reimbursement by the aggrefi'ors: That
as the government was the channel through which
the indemnification was to be obtained, the aggriev
ed were to look to the government, and the govern
ment to the apgrelTors: He was therefore fatisfied
that in the firft inltance these jult claims when ascer
tained ought to be paid out of the public reafury j
that a demand ought immediately to be made tor
restitution and compensation, and that when it
should be withheld, Congrefsfhouid determine on the
proper means for obtaining redrels. Mr. Smith re
marked that the proportion, made some time ago by
Mr.Madif,n on this lubjefi being predicated on an
increale of duties, was inapplicable to the present
crisis, and resting solely on a fund which would pro
bably never exist, held out no profpeA of relief. Be
lides, that proposition depended on the success of a
number of antecedent ones, which might not be as
dopted, and if they were, would be at a dittant
period, whereas this fubjeft called for immediate
confederation. He then read the following ret'olu
tions :
Resolved, That provision ought to be made for
the indemnification of all citizens of the United
States, whose veiTels or cargoes have been seized and
confifcated by any of the belligeret powers, contrary
to the law of nations.
Refolved,That a committee be appointed to prepare
a bill *<> Carry the foregoing resolution into effedfc.
'I hefe resolutions being seconded ar.d r«*aa from
the chair.
Mr. Daytm-rofe and said he (honld not agree IP
the proportion of the gentleman from S. C. unless
it were contested with one which (hould designate
the fund from whence the indemnity was to be de
rived: He had prepared a resolution combining the
two fubjtfis, rthich, being indilpofed, he did not
intend to bring forward that day, but as the gentle
man last up had called the attention of the House to
ft, he fliould read his potion and lay-it on the ta
ble,. in order that the two iubjtcts might be taken
Up together.
Mr. Dajton then read his resolution, to this ef
fect, viz. That provision ought to be made by law
for fequeftcring 111 debts due to ny IWbjefts of the
Bntilh king, to be kept as a pledge for the the resti
tution of (he vessels and cargoesof the United States,
which had been feited and conlifcated by the Bn
tilh (hips of war and cruisers, contrary to the law
of nations and in violation of our rights.—
Mr. D. said it was no longer a secret that the
Britilh nation were resolved to be at war with
this country —that this was maaiftfted by the
speech of Lord Dorcheiier, and by their un
juftifiable seizure and confiscation of our pro
perty ; that we were bound to retaliate—that
all hope of retaliation of the damages sus
tained was perfectly chemerical, un'.efs we
compelled it by some means of this kind. In
stead of sequestering, he thought Congress
had a right to confifcate Bntilh tjtbts both in
the funds and in the hands of individuals ; but
he would go no farther than fequefiration,
and confine it to private debts.
Mr. Dayton's propolition being read, it was mo.
ved that the houlc lhould resolve itlelfinto a com
mittee on this bulinefs immediate'y.
This occalioned a long debate.
Mr. Fitzlimons said it waj a l'ubj»£l which ought
to be immediately decided—the public mind ought
nvt to be kept in lulpenfe ; he was against the pro
portion of fequeliration, but he Ihould vote lor ta
king it up now, and deciding upon it.
Mr. Kittera and Mr. Irvine said, if any thing
ot the kind was intended, it ought not to be delayed
as a delay would defeat the measure, by giving time
10 make transfers and alignments : That transfers
had already taken place, trom the apprehealion of
such a measure.
Mr. Ames conceived that a measure offuch »se
rious nature ought not to be precipitated. He Itill
cherilhed the hope of peace —he would to the lalt;
moment struggle against every thing like
war,he therefore reprobated every proportion
which had a tendency todrive usinto a war,
until all negoc iation failed.
Several members expreffcd a wifti to go
into committee merely to consider the fub
jeft, without wishing for a decision on tiiat
day.
Mr. Boudinot had not made np his mind
so as to give an opinion, he requeiled a delay
for one or two days.
Mr. Tracy was ajainft going now irtto
committee; hedid not lay what cnange might
be brought about in his opinion by the debate,
but at present the proportion appeared to him
an outrage upon common hunt JtyT
Mr. Mercer and Mr. Dayton disapproved
of these exprefiions'; they thought th» coa
dopt of Great Britain juitifi«d the measure.
Mr. Smiley laid wc were in a fiate of war,
and the measure was necefi'ary for felf-de
fence.
Mr Smith S. C. observed that wheu
hepropofed the indemnification, he was un
acquainted wilh the intention of conne&ing
with it, the illbjeft of liequeitration ; he
wished the two fubjefts might be fepara
tcd ; the interest which a great number of
citizens took in the success of the former
might give an improper biafs and impulse,
in faror of the latter, and attach a degree
oi populaiity, to a measure which viewed
by itfelf, and in cooler moments might be
disapproved by those who uow juftified it.
He itated that it had been the invaria
ble pra&ife of the house, on occasions e
ven of the greatell importance, to let a
proposition lie a few days for considera
tion ; yet on this occasion, avowedly of
the most serious complexion and of the
highest importance, they were prefTed to
an opinion, without even one day's no-
In anfvvcr to the argu-
tiee
ment that it was only intended tc
look at the fubjeft and not to decide, he
said that members might commit them
selves too hastily and get fixed in their o
pinions—whereas, the fubjeft ought to be
taken up after mature reflection.
The only reason he had heard for an im
mediate decision was the preventing transfers;
he admitted there was something in this,
but he suggested a mode of obviating the
difficulty, which was to pass a vote, prohibit
ing transfers for so or ;,o days, during which
time the irxmbers might have leisure to de
liberat calmly on a lubje<st which involved
the national character, and which certainly
ought not to be precipitated.—Several other
members i'poke, and the question being put.
the motion for going into committee was
carried, 51 voting in the affirmative.
(Debate to be continued.)
WiiiLKi-Ab an ahus ha» ilfued
out of ihc Supreme Court of this Com
monwealth, at the suit of Margaret Evans,
upon a petition preferred by the said Marc a.
ret, praying for a Divorce hom the bonds of
Matrimony, entered into with Robert Ev a ns-
This is to give notice to the said Robert, that
he be and appear at the said Supreme Court, to
he held at the City or Philadelphia on Monday
the seventh day ot April next, at the State-House
in the said City, to answer the matters alledged
in the said petition.
Wm. chapman,
Sheriff of Bucks County.
*13W4W
March 5, 1794.
To Robert Evavs,*
UNITED STATES.
NANTUCKET, March 9.
'This day arrived Schooner fwallow>
Latham Gardner, from Faulkland Ifles>
laftfromSt. Euftatia,with whomcame paf
snger, Mr. Benjamin Franklin Folger,
who left Halifax December laft,on board
tftc brig Hawk, Capt. E. Macy, who had
charge of the October Mail from Fal
mouth.—Captain Macy got twice within
20 leagues of Bolton light ; but by the dif
treis of weather was obliged to put away
for the W. Indies, & arrived fafe at Anti
gua, whsre Mr. Folger left him.—Capt.
A. Gardner, in the brig , of Provi
dence,' left Faulkland Hies about three
months ago, bound for Cape Good Hope,
to take in provisions to bring him home.
Capt- William Barnard, in a brig belong
ing to Providence, was at Faulkland Isles
—-flans hard to be gotten.
March 13.
Drifted on Ihore, last Saturday, on the
Weft, end of this Isle, the hull of a (loop,
about s*o tons, blnck. bottom, yellow waiit
—appeared to be an old vessel—her stern,
and cabin floor gone—mast
broke off below deck—lails waihed to pie
ces fotne men's and women's cloths
£raod in her ; and about 14 barrelsof tar,
with tta brand, but an apparent cut mark
with a knife of S. S. O. W. X ■ was
them. -Since the wreck of the vef
fci came on ihore, there has been found
fondiy barrels of tar with the fame mark
—af£b a long boat has been taken up a
dr.Ei, sxid brot in here.—This day was
faaacfc drifted on shore, not far from the
wreck, the body of a small Negro girl, sup
posed to be about two or three years old—
The stern plank of a vessel has been found,
bearing the name of " THE SOLICI
TOR. OFSUFFOLK—which isfuppofed
to have belonged to the wreck.
Tlite wreck of the veflel was found and
taken charge of by George Baoirn ; to
whom the owners or others concerned may
apply.
FREDERICKSBURG, March 20.
A gentleman immediately from Ken
tucky informs, that the expedition intend
ed aspiaft New-Orleans, under Gen. Clark,
had been flopped by the authority of Ken
tucky.
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 28.
Ad express arrived here this morning from
New-York, which left that City last evening
at S o'clock —A vellel from St. Kitts in 16
days, had brought a copy of the inftru&ions
of the Britiih Government of the Bth Janu
ary lift—which were considered of so much
importance at this critical juncture as to in
duce the merchants of New-York to forward
them with the utmost expedition—No doubt
cam be entertained of their authenticity.
ExtraA of a letter from a refpe<slable mer
cantile charaiter in the eastern part of M»f
fcuiufetts, to a gentleman in this city, da
ted March 12.
" The fuuation of our navigation here is.
at this time, truly distressing : two (hips loft,
and two detained in Bourdeaux, for three
months, by our good allies, for what cauie
we: know not. The fear of Mr. M's refolu
tioni being adopted prevents our fending
thole for England that were designed for that
voyage. I think those resolutions, if agreed
to, will ruin more than half the merchants
here, aa their greatest intereftis in (hipping,
and they are as ill calculated to fecurc to us
the advantages arifmg from the carrying
trade, as the throwing away the weights of
a clock would be to make the time-piece go
fafter, However I trull Congress will never
be so loft to the true interest of the country
as to adopt rhem ; and I hope the representa
tives from this state will continuefirm against
them.
" I am sorry to hear of so much opposi
tion to a navy, which m-jft be a neceflary de
fence to our navigation ; and we have too
much left without a protection. This
too will make us more refpeftable as a mari
time nation among the powers of Europe. I
hope Congress will enquire into the causes of
the detention of our (hips in the ports of
France and procure reparation.
A war ought to be avoided if poTible—
for in addition to the horrors of a war, when
wc are once in we shall be so connected with
the warring powers of Europe, that no mor
tal" can calculate the degree of calamity, or
a period to its existence."
Fxirael of a letter from Cape Nichola Mole
ta a gentleman In this city, dated 3i
March 1794.
Embargo has taken place on "11
vessels the ift. inft. r Tumid have been
ready to fail this day, fit not been for
the Embargo, when it will be off, is utU
ertafn, the moll probable conjecture is one
month."
By the Schooner Peggy, Captain Sketly, in 11
days from Antigua, the Jollvwing Intelli
gence ij received.
LONDON, Jan. 8, 1794.
InftruiStions to the Commanders of our (hips
of War and Privateers, that have or may
have Letters of Marque against France.
Given at our Court at St. James's,
the Bth of January, 1794.
WHEREAS by a former inftru&ion to
the ( Commanders of our (hips of War and
Privateers, dated the 6th day of November,
1793- —We fignified that they (hould ltop
and detain all Ships laden with goods, the
produce of any Colony belonging to France,
or carrying provisions or other supplies for
the use of any such Colony, and should bring
the fame with their cargoes to legal adjudica
tion. We are pleased to revoke the said in
ftru<ftions, and in lieu thereof, have thought
fit to iflue these our inftrudlions, to be duly
observed by the commanders of all our lhips
of War and Privateers, that have or may
have Letters of Marque against France
L That they /hall bring in for lawful ad
judication all veflels with their cargoes that
are laden with goods, the produce of the
French Weft-India Islands, and coming di
redlly from any part of the said Islands to
any part of Europe.
II- That they (hall bring in for lawful
adjudication, all (hips with their cargoes that
are laden with goods, the produce of the
laid Islands, the property of which goods
shall belong to fubjeAs of France, to what
ever ports they may be bound.
111. That they (hall seize all (hips, that
shall be found attempting to enter any port
of the said lilands that is, or shall be blocka
ded by the arms of his Maiefly or his allies,
and shall fend them in with their cargoes for
adjudication, according to the terms of the
f cond article of the former inftrudlions bear
in? date Bth of June, 1793.
IV. That they (hall seize all velTtl? laden
wholly or in part with Naval or Military
Stores, bound to any port of the said lilands,
aud shall fend th cm into lome convenient
port belongingnro his Majesty, in order that
they, together with their cargoes may be
p oceeded against according to the ruks of
the law of nations.
(Signed)
CONGRESS.
House of lieprejl K-'atm s.
Marc'n 27.
The President has signed the naval arma
ment bill, the resolution for laying an embar
go, the bill for the relief of Capt. Paranque,
and the bill authorizing a settlement of the
accounts of M. La Fayette.
A memorial was presented and read from
the inhabitants of Norfolk and Portsmouth.
Mr. Smith S. C. offered the following
resolutions r
Refol-ved,
That provision ought to be made for the
indemnification of all citizens of the United
States, whose veflels or cargoes (hall have
been seized and confifcated by any bellige
rent power contrary to the law of nations.
Refolded,
That a committee be appointed to prepare
and bring in a bill for carrying the foregoing
resolution into effe<3.
The following, including the object con
templated by those of Mr. Smith, were pre
sented by Mr. Dayton, and it was moved to
go into committee of the whole upon them
immediately. After some debate the motion
was carried 5 x members rising in the affirma-
liefolved,
That provision ought to be made by law
for the sequestration of all the debts due
from the citizens of the United States to the
fubje<fts of the King of Great Britain.
Resolved,
That provision ought in like manner to be
made for securing the payment of all such
debts into the Treasury of the United States,
there to be held as a pledge for the indemni
fication of such of the citizens of the said
dates as lhall have fuffered from the' (hips of
war, privateers, or from any person or des
cription of persons ading under the commis
sion or authority of the Britiih King, in con
travention of the laws of nations and in vio
lation of the rights of neutrality.
The honfe accordingly went into commit
tee of the whole on these resolutions, Mr.
Sherbourne in the chair.
Some debate took place upon these refolu-
tions,
Mr. Smith (S. C.) then laid the follow
ing resolution on the table as a substitute for
t'nofe presented by Mr. Dayton.
Ri'fol'vedy
That all transfers or afiignments of debts
due to any fubjefl of Great Britain by any
citizen of the United States, made after the
promulgation of this resolution, and for 30
days thereafter, be null and void to all intents
and purposes. Adjourned.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, March 27.
A bill is before the legislature of this
state, for appropriating 30,000). for the
purpose of fortifying the port of NVv/-
Yoik. To which is annexed a supply
of 12,0001. for defraying the expencc of
floating batteries, vefTela of forceand for
tifications on the northern and wettern
waters.
The folio-wing Letter is jvjl received from
Your letter in behalf of our fellow-citi
zens, we this moment received, and we
have the fatisfa£Vion to inform you, that
your requefl has already been anticipated
by the House of Assembly, and that a
bill appropriating thirty thousand pounds,
for fortifying the port of New-York, has
pasTed the AiTembly.
Deeply impressed with the magnitude
of the obje£l recommended to our consi
deration, we did not after the rejection of
the former bill from the Senate, despair of
eventual success in both Houses of the
Legislature, and judged it our duty to
renew the fubjeft. We now rejoice to
fay, that we have every reasonable expec
tation of success, and trull the legislative
provision will be such, as to promote the
wifhcs of our fellow-citizens and to com
port with the interest and dignity of
the State.
We are Gentlemen*
with every fcntiment.
James Watson, Jotham Port, Rich
ard Furman, Wm. Wilcocks, Ro
bert Boyd, Jof. Ogden Hoffman,
John Delancey.
Robert R. I Jvingfton, JarhesT
Alner, John Broome, Edward > Efq'rS.
Livingfton. J
A letter from a gentleman in Paris,
dated Nov. 28, 1793. " The FreHch
armies consist of 1500000 men—fiom 18
to 45 years of age. It is with infinite
fatisfattion I allure you, that the greater
part of my apprehensions of a war* be
tween * England and America, are dispel
led."
From undoubted authority, we under
stand that the late talk Lord Dorcheller
had with the Indians was conduced in a
very secret manner. The matter was not
known, even in Quebec* till some time
after the departure ot the Indians ; when,
on their returning to Montreal, they dis
closed the matter to a friend, who took a
copy of the said talk, and from whichfever
al copies were made out. Diary.
H. DUNDAS.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
DayJ.
Brig Little Sally, Earl, Virginia. 5
Schr. Peggy, Skelly, St. Euitatia
and Antigua; 12
Mary, Hufley, Jamaica. 24
Sloop John, Merry, Bufton. iz
The (hips Morning Star and Fame,
and Brig Flora, are returned.
We hear that a Brig bound from this
port, to Jamaica, is (topped by a French
Ihip of war, at Bombay Hook :—The
Captain of the (hip fays, (he mult be de
tained, till he hears from Philadelphia.—
Yesterday evening arrived at Marcus
Hook, the following veflels:
Ship Enterpiize, Jones, Havanna, 12
Brig Chance, Beiks, do. do.
Fox, Milieu, Malaga, 42
On the evening of the 26th inft. a few
leagues o(Fthe Delaware Capes, the French
(loop of war, the Cerf of 16 guns from
New-York, captured the Spanish (hip Vic
toria, Capt. Cofte, and the snow Baron
de Carondelet, Capt. Harvey, both from
this port, bound to New Orleans.
C»pt. Betks, in 12 days from the Ha
vanna informs, that he failed in compa
ny with the ship Enterprize, Captain
Jones of Philadelphia.—The ship Betsey,
Moore, of New-York > Citizen, Cunning
ham, Baltimore, and the brig Ann, Byrnes
of Philadelphia, were all ready to fail in a
few days.
The brig Fox, failed in cortipany with
a large number of English velTels, under
convoy of the Britilh IMp Iris—Two Al
gerine cruisers boarded several vessels in
light of Capt. Mellen.
A number of veflels in addition to thnfe
already mentioned, are arrived-in the river—
srr.eug which it is fa:d, is one from London.
The Drair.atiit, the Farmer and the Sai
lor's Landlady, are to be performed at the
New Theatre this evening.
Albany.
Gentlemen,
ARRIVED.
Abigail, Moore, Cafco Bay.
THEATRE,
Arrived at Nt<w->~ork t March 17.
Brig Barnham,
Soioocer inza, Fanning, Charleston
ilaitibii Taylor, N. Providence and
Turks-Illands
Lift of American veflels in the Port of Lif
' 'i! W>n> December 26, i 793.
Ship Glasgow, Harding Williams, Philad.
Cirnpbell, New-York
Ho£e, Charles Sheldon, Providence
Brig SdfeeyyiC. R. Perry, do.
£]izsbeth) Mouf. IS. Bunbury, Newbury
, Port
Helter Mary, Florence Drifcoll, Balti
more
Martha, Ebeiir. Hayt,
Neptune, Stephen Griffith, Chatham
Waihington, GeoigeDekay, New-York
Clinton, Joseph Alger Providence
Clarifla, John Wheeler, Bolton
Echo, Jbhn Cumb, do.
Minerva, William Dalzel Alexandria
Eliia, Jamts Goodrich, New-York
Schooner Betley, John Prince, Marblehead
At St. Übts, near Lilbon.
Ship Fame, Robert Blunt, Portfmout,
Gov. Bowdoin, Win". Downe, Bolto** 1
Eliza, Thomas, Lewis, do. n
Mr. Dayton's propositionS for the seques
tration or arreiiatton cf iiritifci property,
was this day under confederation ili the Houle
of JRepreieutacives—the debate was renewed
and continued till near the time of Adjourn
ment.
No vote was taken when the cotnimt
teo rofe> and the House adjourned till
Monday.
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar hilts of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar bills of the bank of North Jimeriea,
several of c Jj. ich have appeared in circulation
within afi jj days pafl, they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Hills, Out may
be diflinguifhed by the following
marks.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United Stales.
ALL that have appeared ~avi the letter F.
for the r Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of* the Paper is thick r and
whit r and t takes the ink more freely than
the genuine pap t r.
The O. n ihe word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters of that w rd,
fa th.it a line extended from ihe top of ih. O,
to touch the tup of the M would extend ron-
Tiderably above tlife range of the whole word;
In th* word Un ted th 4 letters are narrow
er and tlofer together than the reft of the b II
The : and fin the word promise are not
parallel, the f inclining rtiuch more forward
than the >.
Tbe engraving is badly ekecilied,the strokes
of allthe Letters are stronger and tile devi e
in the margin particularly ismuch coarser and
aj pjars darker than in the true bi is. Somi
ot the counterfeits bi ar daie injl-91— Where
as the Bank was not ii. operation till Decem
ber, and no five dollar bills were issued in
that year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that i f the O'UUterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described; the engraviug is beitei exe
cuted, and they approach nearer to the ap.
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Tu/en
-1)1 in the body of the billj are in number thir
teen in the genuine b lis, and but twelve in
the count rfeits.
The wotd Company is much like the f;mc
word in the Five D liar B lis as defer ibed a
bove, the o being less than them, and others
following.
There is no stroke to the t jmhe word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is weii
defined-
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the do no conic dow i 11
the line, I ut are so cut as to 41 \ e an irregular
appearance to the word, tie Tw and go
ing below them.
The Siguature J Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with 1 aim-black and
oil, and differs the other inks tiled in
printing tiie bills and the c.ifhiei's lignaturc.
It is fuppoftd these forgeries were co.nroiued
in fomc ot the Southern Stales, a* all ihc coun
terfeits thai have appeared, haVe fcoirie from
thcrice, and two pcrfons have been app-ehend
ed iri Virginia, on suspicion ot being the authors
of ihem.
The rewafrd of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Person or Persons who (hail
discover and prosecute to conviction the several
offenders of the following description* or any
of them, viz.
The perfort or persons, who mdnUfattured
:he paper on which the Bills arc printed.
The perfou or petfons, who engraved the
plat- s.
The printer or primers, of the bills
Every person who has acted as a principal in
ary other way, in the counterfeiting arid utter
ing the said bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Prefidtnt
of the B nk Unii< d Siatcs.
JOHN NlXOffl , Piefident of the
Bank ot North Ameiica.
By order of the Commiucts of the R'f
peftivc Boards.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794.' dif.Philadelphia, Marclii, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHEW CAREY,
No. xiß, Market Jireet,
*JHE FIRST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography :
jOR, A
Geographical, Hiftoricai, and,
Commercial Grammar-,
Aiwi present state of the fevcral
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CONT AIN -I NC ,
l» figures, motions, and distances of
the 'planets, acco ding to the Newtonian sys
tem and the latest obferyations.
2- A .general yie.w of jt he earth, confide red
as a planet; with several ufeful,geographical
definitions and problems*
3. The grand divisions of the globe into
land and continents and ifUnds.
4. Tiie Attrition and extent of empires,
kingdorns, states, provinces and colonies.
J- Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, metals, minerals, natural curi
osities, Teas, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
aud lakes.
6. The birds und beads peculiar to'each
country.
7. Observations on the changes that have
been any where observed upon the face of na
ture flnce the must ear;y periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations; their
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
nues, taxes, naval ami military ftrengrti.
9 The genius, manneis, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
jo. Their language,learning,arts # sciences,
manufactures, and commerce.
11. The thief cities, ftrufturesj. ruins, and
artificial curjofities
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
distances of principal places fromPhiladelphir
r i ■■ L —l J- J
To which arefldded,
1. A Geogr apHi caL Index, with the names
and placei alp'iabetically arranged.
2. A Table of the Coins of all nations, and
their value in dollars and cents.
j. A Chronological TABtEof remarkable
events,, flora the creation to the present time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Efy.
The AftronociicaJ Part by
- D'. RittenhoWSE. ' -
To which have been added,
The,late DiscoyEMjis ofD r - Herschell,
and other eminent Astronomeks.
T ie FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrcfted, ImP r °ved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firft voiurae contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, besides two Astronomical Plates,
i 4 Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world.
3. Europe. 4. Asia. 5. Africa. 6. South -
America- 7. Cook's difco'veries. 8. Coun
tries round the north Pole. 9* Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway. iQ. Seven United Pro
vinces. 11 Auftrjan, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12- Germany. is. Seat of war
in France. 14. France divided intodepart
me ts. 15. Switzerland. :6. Italy, Sicily,
*nd Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
l 8 Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
land. Weft-Indies, ji. Vermont. 22. Ar-
sphere. 23. Copemican system.
With the second volgrae, which is now in
the press, w.ll be given Jhe following Maps :
t. Rulfia in Europe and Alia.
2. Scotland.
J. England and Wales.
4. Potanid.
5. China.
6. Hindoftan.
•j. United States.
8. Britilh America.
9. State of New-Hampftiire.
10. Btate of MaffachuHetts.
It. State of Connecticut.
12. State of Rhode Island.
13. State of New-York.
14. State of New-jerfey.
sy. State of Pepnfylvania.
>6. State of Delaware.
j7. State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
23 State of North-Carolina.
Sti. Tennessee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia.
TERMS.
j. This work will be comprised in two vo
lume 1 !.
2. Subscribers pay far the present volume on
fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (j(> cents for board:.)
3. They may receive the succeeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finished, at
'the fame price as the firft.
4. The fubfeription wil be raised on the firft
day ot June 1794. to fourteen dollars, ex
clusive of binding.
j; Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
6. Tlie names of the fubferibers will be pub
lifh'd as patrons ot American literature,
arts, and sciences.
It is wholly unneceflary to expatiate on the
advantage.to American readers, that this edi
tion polfe're*, -iver every imported edition of
aiyfyften >f Geog aphy extant. The atldit
tio o maps of ihe several ftr.te , procured a
a ve y g--eat exprnfe, and frcjin the belt mal
teiials that are speaks fucti ful
conviction on this fnbjedl, that it would be
difrefpeft to the reader's underftandng to
fnopofe it requisite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
similar work have such maps bsenever intro
duced.
The emendations and additions which are
made in this work, are innumerable, and occur
in every page. The .public are referred to
the preface for a flight Iketch of a few of
them.
The publiflier takes the present opportu
nity of returning his jnoft fmcere thanks to
those refpodtable chara&ers who. have favored ;
him with documents i'or improving the maps
of several of the states. He requests a conti
nuance of their kindness ; and hopes that such
public spirited citizens, are poflelTed of si
milar documents, will favor him with their
afliftance in perfecting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he Jias been favored, has excited
in his breast the warmest sentiments of grati
tude—sentiments which time will not efface,
fie pledges himfelf .to the citizens ol" the
United States, to fpar-e neither pains nor ex
penfe to render the .pfefent-edition of Guthrie's
Geography improved, deserving of their pa
tronage. waftf
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-itreet, New-York.
TH>Esubfcriber intending to confint himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE &SALLof
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b< gs leave to of
fer his Cervices to his friends and others, in the
line o*f a Stock Bfokrr. Those -who may please
to favor htm with their bu fine Is, may d< pend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the utmost fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other partof the United States, will be ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&thtf
NORRIS- COURT,
Back of the New Lijr vy, between Cliefnut
and Waliu 1-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLYi nforros hk friends and
the pi&lic in general, that he continues
carrying on the of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likowife, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
tor d on or wi idow-(hutters,donl in tne most
elegant manner, and with difpafth.
Orders t'roin the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to-
December 39, drf
PROPOSALS
TOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
or TH*
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from a<sbtal survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS Pian will be engraved on a plate 26
inches square ; and it will contain an ex
alt dcfcription of ail the fquarcs, ftrcets and
alleys in the City and Liberties. The fuuation
of the several public buildings, such as the State-
House, City.Hall, Seat of Congress, Churches,
Meeting-Houses, Hospital, Library and Semina
ries of Learnmg— of the several Banks, and of
the Federal and State Offices, will be afctrtained.
The parts which are built on will be diftinguifli
ed from those that arc not. The courtes of the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as'much of the Canal, intended 10 conned* the
navigation of these two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a
view of the (hipping in the harbor, and an ele
vation of Congress-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In (hort, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and desirable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power :
and it (hall be compleated with the greatest
poflible dispatch, as soon as the generous encou
ragement of fubfenbers (hall iofure to the authoi
such a sum as will be fufficicju to defray ex-
Fences.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift oi
the Subscribers names, and information con
cerning the police, population and prcfent (late
of the city.
The price to fabferibers will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at the time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Subscriptions will be gratefully received at
the principal Booksellers in this city—and the
origiual Draft may be seen at B. Da vies',
No. 68, Marks t-ftreet, at any time until it (hall
be put into the hands of the Engraver.
Feb. 28.
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commifiions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indlvifible
(March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
The Minister Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic.
The Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are requested to republilh the
foregoing notice. d
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at bis Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street :—
A few Bales ot Rudia Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity ot Sauchong Tea, Hyson and
Tonka y, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Brimftortr,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. 20. 3'»wGw
Schertie of a Lottery;
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, deducing 15 per Cetit. from
the Prizes—this Lottery con/ijls of
38,000 Ticketsin which there are
14,539 -Prices and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THL Directors of .the "Society for establishing
UfeUti Manufactures, having icfolved to
ere£i LOTTERIES for railing
Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an CA& of
the Legvflatuie of thv Sum ot Wew-Jei icy, have
appointed the tallowing perfon&to Tupenntend
and direst the drawing ot the lame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rutus King, Heiman Le Roy, James
Watlon, Richard Harrilon, Abijah Hammond,
and Cornelius R*y, of the city ot New-York—
Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matihtw M 4 Con«*
nel and Andrew bayard, ot the cuy of Phila
delphia—<HisiLxcelkncy Richaid Howell, Esq.
Julias Uoudinot, General deltas Dayton, James
Parker, John Do&or Lewis Donnam,
Samuel W. Stockton, Joshua M. Wallace, Joseph
Bloomftcld, and Ehfha Bouduiot, ot .N. w-Jer
fey, who offer the tgUowing Scheme ot a Lot
tery, and pledge them/elves to the public, that
they will take every assurance and precaution in
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, irom time to time, as received, into
the Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain tor the pui pole ot paying Pr-.z s, which
{hall be immedia e-ly discharged by a check
upon one of the Banks.
* 4>539
23,461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Lalt drawn number, 2,000
38.000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266.000
Tne draw ng will commence, under the m
fpittion of a Committee of the supenuiendams,
as loon as the Tickets are fold,ot which timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendants have appointed John N.
Cumming, of Newark, Jacob R. Hardenberg,
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, ot
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample fecunty for discharging the
trust reposed in them.
(£3"' I n order id iecure the punctual payment
of the Prizes, the Supenntendantsof the Lottery
have dire£led that the Managers ihall each enter
into bondsin 40,000 dollais, with sous iufficient
securities, to perform their iniliuctions, the lub-
Uance of which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
(hall receive the sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he (hall imrndiately place the fame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedii «t the Governor of the Society, and such
of the.Superiniendants as live in the cay where
the monies arc placed, to remain there until the
Lottery is drawn, for the payment of the Prize*.
H. The Managers to take Sufficient lecunty
for any Tickets they may trust, otrterwife to be
refpouiible for them.
HI. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the bank, ab
ftra£U of which (hall be lent, monthly, to tire
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle,
men, information will be given where tickets
may be had.
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Peteriburg in Ruflia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN't DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 12, Walnut-street.
diwjtiwtf
m&thtf
M.Carey,No. 118,High-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, tuhich are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the world.
THIS lirtle book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all claflVs of people, merchants, me.
chauics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
work acquired, that it has passed thro three im
prcflionsin the eastern dates, and many houie
holders deem it so ufeful as to purchase a copy
tor every adolt in their families. Price 2s.
February 4. dil
JH. FAUCHET.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible Pituation, —also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres ot'
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
H'llfe is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size or convenitnce.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23,
S C H E M E:
i Prize of
20,000 Dollars is 20,000
10,000 10,000
1
8
6
10
5,000
2, 000
I,oo©
500
100
50
20
12
SO
20
100
300
1000
SOOO
3000
8100
February 24.
Just Imported,
March 4,1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR MALE BY
Excellent CLARET,
In hog P. cads and in cases of bottles each.
a l, so,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BV
No. m, South Front lireet.
Jan. 2, 1794.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street :
THE History of New.Hanipftme, frojn the
Discovery otthe River Pifc\ataqua—by Je
remiah Belknap, D. D. 3 Vols. Pi ice in Boards,
4 I 2 Dolldis.
The Forrefter,. an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Clothier.
Prcc, 75 Cents.
A Dilcotjrfe, intended to commemorate the
Discovery of America by Chrirtopher Colum
bus; delivered at the requoft ol the Hiftorica4-
Society in Maflachuletts, October 23d, 1792,.
being the completion of the Thud Centuiy,
since that memorable event. To which are
added. Four Donations, co»iießcd with the.
fubjeft—By the fame author. Price, 50 Cents.
March 17. tuth& r ow
Advertisement.
Wl LL be expoftd to public sale, on Se
venth cay the 29th of tiiis inflant, at the late
dwelling house »f Richard Cheyney, deeeaf:
a plantation,fiiuate in the Township of
Thornbury In the county of Delaware, ana
lying on Chester creek, containing 80 acres,
15 of which are good watered n-eadow, and
more may be made at a I'msllexpence, abont
25 acres of wood land, and the remainder is
good fertile land well supplied with water.
There are on the premile",a good flone
dwelling House and kitchen, an excellent
garden, an orchard of 2 J good bearing trees
a good barn cellai'd under, a saw mill, and
an excellent Teat for a grift ar merchant mill
with a fufficiency of water.
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
io t ooo
15-,000
20,000
30,000
36,000
Si.coo
262,000
Likewise a tradt of wood land pjoinlng the
above—-Immediate poffeifion will be given to
the purchaler—The sale to begin at 2 o'clock
on Paid day. wher« attendance will be given,
and conditions made known by
JOHN CHEYNEY, ?„
WILLIAM CHEYNEY,
March, 19 d4t.
tor Sale by the Sabfcribers,
Muscovado Sugar in hhds. &üb«i.
Hvfon and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, m pipes
and quarter calks.
Spanish Indigo. t
Bolton Beef, in barrels.
And a fm&ll invoice oF Muslins;
NALBRO' & JOHN FRAZIER,
No. 164, South Front-street.
fmw4w
March 8,
STATE or SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the Huufe of Representatives,
December 21ft, 1793.
WHEREAS the Co mmiflioners of public
Accounts, have reported, that they can
not proceed 10 the ui e(ligation of the Treasury
Accounts, refpr&ing special Indents, without
knowing the ouiftanding amount thereof in cir
culation Therefore,
Rcfolvcdy That all holders of special Indents
be dtrc&ed, and required, on or before ibe firft
day of November 11. xt f to deliver the special In
dents in their poffefiion to one or other of the
Commiffiontrs of the Treasury, who are to grvfe
receipt* for the and t« repvrc to tbeCom
miflioners on public accou-nts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
them refpefclively received, and also 10 the Le
gJflature, at their meeting in November next,
and that all special Indent* not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, Ihall be, and the fame are
heieUv barred.
m&rif.
Rcfolvcd, That public notice of this resolution
be given in the (cveral Gizettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And that ihe Delegates of this
State in tlie Congress of ihe United Stales, be re
quelled 10 cause this rdoiution to be publi(hc4
in one or mo«e pipers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provifinn will be
made for the expencet attending such publica
tion.
Ordtrtiy That the resolution be sent to the
.Senate for their concurrence.
By order tvs the Hovfe,
J OHM SANFORD DART, C. H. R.
In the SENJTEj
December 21(1,1793.
Rtfolvcd, Thar this House do concur wiih iKe
Houle ot Representatives in the foregoing refo-
lul ions,
Ordered, That the resolutions be sent to thfc
Houtc of Reprclentatives.
cwtNov
INFORMATION
Is Requested
By the Editor, of a Mr. William Kilton, a(
Brick Layer, who went from New.England
and was at Philadelphia lit Aiiguft, 5?93»
since which time nothing has been heard of
him—Great relics* will be afforded to his aged
parent) and friends, by any intelligence coft
tef.-iing him—as tley are fearful that he has
fallen in the late general calamity.
March 22
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
raith—tf
JOHN VAUGHAN,
tely Publiftied.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WAR-LEY, Clerk.
South Fourth-Street,
I
dtf