EVENT N G AD V E R T I S
,[No. 152 of Vol. V.] ,
Carolina Rice and Indigo,'
PAY MAHOGANY and FRENCH
BURR stones,
FOR SALE BY
Gurney and Smith.
May i.j. d
JAMAICA RUM,
IANLKNG at Hamilton's v harf, above
the Drawbridge, out of the /hip Bacchus
Ce|)t. Vanneman, fioir Jamaica,
FOR SALE Br >j
PETER BLIGHT.
d
May 16
It is Requested,
THAT no pe'fo i wi I Supply a, y articles
fortheufeol tlie New Theatre, without an
order iri writinp, signed by ouri'e!ve=, or Sam
uel Ai:de rfan, for u
WIGNtLL & REINAGIE.
dt!'.
May 30,
All perfojis who have any de
ni id. upon the New Theatre, are requeu
ed tn fe'.H in their accounts to No. 304, in
Arch iiiett, near Eighth street, as loon as
convcnie.it.
•WIGKfELL & REIN IGLE.
dtf.
May 3">.
Guthrie's Geography improved.
THE fubferiptipi) tor this work on the ori
ginal ttrmi, ofiwelve (Jollirs and tic bind
ing, wil this day—and on Mrfrday
the fubfyripti«n will open at fourteen dollars,
exclnfive of the price of binding.
The new maps added to this edition are
t'vetity one ; among which are thole o! Ntw-
H impffi re, MafTadbuletts, Connecticut,
Rliode-Iflanc', Vermont, New Yoik, New
'erfev, Pennlylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia," Kentucky, North Carolina, the
■cnelf e Government, South Carolina, and
eortjia. These maps have never been given
any former system of Geography, and, it
(loped, would alone be fnfficient to entitle
s work to a preference to any other edition
Gll tin e. '
N B. Tile map of she United S'ates,
i ch is compiling by Mr. S inniel Lewis,from
? refpeetive state maps, wil] be far more
mplete than any One yet publiflied, and be
mled o- two large sheets of nearly
■'lize of the late Mr. Murray's map.
May 31 rf
FOR SALE,
i MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Mai ket-Street,
\n ElFay on Slavery,
Defunct! to exhibit in a new point o! view
effefch on morals, indvjlry, and the peace of
7 cty. Some iayfts and calculations are ottered
prove the labor of jrttmtn to be much more
vduflive than that of flavcs ; that countries are
:h, powerful aod happy, in proportion as the
Coring people-enjoy the fruits of their own
nor ; and hence the n<cifl*-oy corrclufion, that
• very is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February 15.
longrcfs of the United States,
In Senate, Tuefaay May 13th, 1794.
ORDERED, that Kotuf Putnam, iVlonal
fah Cutlei, Robert Oliver and Griffin
Green, do, upon ihe third Monday of Decem
ber next, !hew cause to the S.nate, why so
much ot tii grants of land to them the said
Rutu< Putnam, Manalfali Cutler, Robert
Oliver and Griffin Green, pursuant to an Ast
entitled "An ast authorizing the giant and
conveyance of certain laFds to the Ohio Com
pany of aflweiates," {hall not be declared
void, a* may interfere with at:d be fufficieot
'o fatisfy the claims of the French settlers
at Galliopolis.
Ordered, that the delivery of a copy of
the above order to Rufus Putnam, ManafTah
Cutler, Robert Oliver, or Griffir! Green, and
the publication of the fame, one month, in
One of the Gazettes printed in this City, ftiall
i>e deemed Aifficienl notice thei eof.
Extradl from the Journals of Senate.
Attest,
SAM. A. OTIS, secretary.
May >4.
To-Morrow Morning,
Will lie landed near Walnut street wlia ffrpm
on boaul the I'chooner Madison, Jas. Par
rock, Tiaftrr, trom MALACA.
Sweet Mountain WINE,
m quarter casks
Soft (helled A monds in lacks
Mufratel Raisins, in jars and
Bloom D'». in quarter barrels'
A few 7 inch Bas s Cables
AND FOR SALE BY
PETER KUHN.
d6t
June 2
o>Cl2tiit of flie 1H
or Hamburgh,
new Ship
~ John YannKman, Mast r.
lO i •' 1 with all convenient speed, having
three fourths of her cargo alreai'y engaged
For freight or passage apply to the mailer on
board, or
THOMAS r d JOHN KF.TLAND:
J»" e 3- d
For Charter,
C^o WfP India I [lands,
mmL «.v *4
A B B Y,
Samuel Eamfs, Matter.
SHE is a ilaunch good vjitfjyj in compleat
order, and will carry about 9CO barivls. For
terms apply to thecapain on board a t Chef.
tlmt (beet wbn' , or *o i
JOSEPH ANTHONY & SON.
(i6r
June 2
For Charted,'
■ Lady , WalterftorfF,
Edward Brooch, Mailer.
BURTHEN 1700 batrejs, failst ft, and is
in compleat order to take in a ca'go imnudi
ately.
Also for Sale Or Charteri
Two New Si}l PS ol Hie bunion of 240 tons
each, for U»ms app.v to
JOSEPH SIMS,
Who has for fait,
Madeira and Sherry Wines,
of c!-e si it <]iia.ity, Bia» dy, Red «»nd h*le
]t uits lia-k, v&c. &c.
x June 2 ' d
Treasury of the United States.
ALL Verv'-r who aie inclined to (Hpo:e of
eithei of the different species of the >tofks of
the Uritfd States, aie hereby notified, that
Propolals wjll.be received ait! e Trealurer's
ofSce No. 71 Chefnut street, at any time un
til Friday the fjtlijnfli it at 12 o'clock.
Jdoe 4th. 17^4,
LETTERS on the fubjedt of the Wash
ington Loittry, being by mistake repeat
edly addreiled to the Commiffionei s for the
City of Wafhingion.
Persons concerned are hereby informed,
that ail such fnould be addrefied either to
W. Deakins jun. of Wafliington, or to the
Subfcrber. The corami(Tioners never hav
ing contemplated any further concern in
this business, than in their aflent to receive
the bonds and approve the names of the
managers. The prizes have been paid and
are paying on demand by VV. Deakins,
Waihington, Peter Oilman, Bolton, and
by the Subscriber.
For the Lottery No. 2, the securities al
ready given will be retained by the com
miflioners, or transfe red by them at their
option to the bank of Columbia ; and the
commissioners will be ronfulted refpedling
a j'idicious and equitable dilp fition. of the
houses to be buik thereby i their treasury
or the bank of Columbia will receive the
money intended for the National Univer
sity, and they will be consulted in the no
mination of the 24 managers ; but all the
refponfihility refpefting the general dispo
sition cf the tickets, and payment of pri
zes, will reft as in the Hotel Lottery, on
the persons whose names are and may be
hereafter pub'ifned as affifiants to forward
this business with
S. BLODGET.
N. B. Mr. Blodget will be particularly
oblie " 1
e 'ed if' those persons who poiTefs prize;
yet unpaid, will .apply for their money as
ear'v as poflible.
June 7th. d.
To the Electors of the city anc
county of Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
THIS be>rg the last year of the prefeht
Sheriff's time in office. I take the liber,
ty to offer nivfelf a Candidate, anil folieit
vour votes and interests in my favor, to plare
me on the retQ"nat t!ie next <;eneralE!e£t;on,
as his fucceiror for laid office; in doing which,
you will confer an obligation that will be
gratefully remembered, by
May 3.
Monday, June 9, 1794.
SA -UEL MEREDITH
Ag«- t for the Ti uliees for
the reduction of the Public
Debt.
ADVERTISEMENT,
Yo"ur most obedient,
and liunihle fcrvant,
, JOIfN BAKER.
esti*.
A PLAIN COOK.
WANTED a middle aged fmgie Woman,'
WJ.-1 unfleriiw,plain Cooking ; to luch a .Hie
the bcft wages will be g'rven.
AlV>y t tne Printer.
31 lot
Medical Books.
JUST PUBLIBHED,
B y Thomas Dob/on, at the Stone House,
No. 41, Jouth Seco d Jlreet,
VOL. 11.
Medical Inquiries
O B S E R VAT I O NS.
By BENJAMIN RUSH, M. D.
Pioftffor of ihe Inftitutcs of Medicine,' and
ot Clinical Practice in the Univer
lity o( P. unlylvania.
containing
1. An inquiry into the influence of physical
cauics upon the moral faculty.
2. An inquiry into the effects of fpiritoys li
quor* upon the human body, and their in.
tiiit nee upon the iiappiwrf* ot locieiy.
3. Ad inquiry into the causes ana cure of the
puinjonaiy conlumption.
4. Obiet valioiis or! U'e Jympiums and cure of
d lopfics.
5. An Inquiry into the causes and the cuie of
i. 1 teniai dioply of the brain.
6. An account of the measles, as they ap
peared in Philadelphia, ir» the year 1789.
7. An account of t he influenza, as if appear
ed in Pniladelphia m the years 1789,1790,
and 1791.
8. An inquiry into the causes of the incrcafe
of biliou* ana remitting levers', in Penn
. iy.lvania.
9. An inquiry into the catlfes and cure of fore
Kgs.
id. Airaccoilht of the state of the body and
mind in old age, with observations upon
I us d ilea ft s ana theft remedies.
Price one dollar and a quarter unbound, or
one dollar and a halt neatly bound.
Medical Tranfa£tions
OF TnS
College of Phylicians of Philadelphia.
V o L. I.—h A R T I.
Puce otic dollar in boards.
A Treatise on the Diseases of
Children.
With general directions tor the management
ot Infants from the birth, adapted for
theuleof physic ans and piiv te families.
By Michael Underwood, M. D.
Licentiate of Midwiicry in the hoyal Col
lege of Physicians in 1 t/ndon, and
Phy/ician of the Bntith
Lying-in-Hospital.
Price one Dollar»
This is acknowledged to be the best book
which has been published on the fubjctl, and
is calculated for the ule ot par; n s, nuffes,* "•
and private families, as well as for physicians
—The two volumes handsomely printed in
one, and the pnce only about one third of
what the imported copies fell for. *
d. t. 18
The Edinburgh New Difpeafatory, two
dollar». .
System of Surgery, extrn&ed from the
works of Benjamin Bell, by Dr. Waters, e
dols. 50 cents.
Syitem ot Anatomy, ex:rafted from the
Encyclopaedia, with 12 copprrpjate.% 2 dols.
Syitem ot Chemistry, extra&ed fiom the
Encyclopaedia, exhibiting a view ol thepto
grefs of the fciencec, and the differetv fyftefns
which have fjeen publiftiedj 2 dols. 50 cents.
Brown's Elements of Medicine, 2 dois.
67 cents.
T. Dob/on has in the Press,
An edition ot the Medical and Philofoptii
al Commentaries of Edinburgh; Twov«l.
Mrs are piintrd in one at e d<>ll--ns and
• nts per volume ; he has nearly fiuifhed me
iv firft vclnnus, which contain the hrlt ten
'oliime's of (lie European edition, wh ch fc .1
or two dollars each. Nine volumes will in
;lud£ eighteen European volumes, which
kV ill briog the publication up to the present
ime.
Likevjifc for sale a confderabh number of
Medical Books, viz*
Cullen's Materia Medica, Physi
ology, and Synopsis. Bell's Surgery, 6 vols,
or 4 vols, do. on Ulcers, Bbchari's Dorai ftic
Medicine, Ledran's S'urg-erv, Cbefeldeti'a A
netomv, Hunter on the Venereal, Swede<a
ver on do. Rollo on Vtfeft India Diseases ;
Ripby on Uterine Hemorrhage, Hamil on's
outlines of the theory and practice of M'd
wifer v, with or without plares ; do. on the
management o! fVmalfc complaints.' Meale
on Hydrophobia, SicTecc. —
March 5.
vt
E R.
[Whole No. 548.]
Morris Academy*
is now open for the re
ception of Undents under the immediate
care, of M r . Caleb. whose abilities
as an initruisl>r, and attachmentto the bu
fuefs have long been known and approved.
He lias under the heft afllllants in
the different branched—-The fcbol'ars are
taught the Engli/h, Freach, La:Ln, and
Greek h n jiiage»,f'Public-Speaking, Writing
Arithmetic, Geography, Astronomy, and
th- various brancf of the Mathematics
I lie heahhy, fituition of this place is fm:H
as to recommend it to f those, who t »
Jiave their children in the country. Boa:d
---i'»g, urchins, mending, &c. will.be provid
ed in families, anrf the morals of the
fcholari carefully a tended to.
J he pt'iC" iptiuding tuition, firewood,
&<*.. exClusive of the French lan»>u ge) will
not eKct-e4 thirty f°urgUproclamation mo
ney per annum) an addition of three dollars
per qua ter wiJJ be made .to fnch fcholnrs
v»o at*.* taught the French language. The
Di: fto s ar ede t rmined to pay as ten
sion co this inlbtution, as will render it
refpeflab'e and, lifefuK
gabrjel h. ford, . -)
TIMOTHV JOHNS, jun. C Dirt's,
Nathan ford, \
MdrriftoWn. May 15, 179*4
Cdngrefs of the United State/.
House of Representatives.
Wednesday, June 4.
The bill to authorize the President to
feceiveon the part of the United States,
cessions of land of light hou
ses, passed a committee, but was rejected
on a co.nttitutional principle in the House,
on the queilion of engrofTment.
A motion was made by Mr. Boudinot,
and agreed to, that a committee of both
Houses be appointed to wait on the Pre
sident, arid recjuelt: that he wi.uld recom
ment to the People of the United States,
a Day of Prayer and Humiliation to Al
mighty God, for tli£ Safety and Prospe
rity of the U. S. The resolution was
directed to be communicated to the Se
nate for their concurrence, and a com
mittee of three appointed to join a com
mittee of the Senate to wait on the Pre
sident of the United States with the
fame.
The bill to authorize the President to
build ten vefftls or gallies, if he should
judge it necefiary in the recess, was taken
up,and after some dehate faffed,47 to 32.
The bill to authorize the fetriement of
certain expencea of the Commilfioners of
Loans; and,
The bill, fupplementaty to the a£t, ma
king more effectual provision for the de
fence of the frontiers of the United
States, were pafled. Adjourned.
In the House of Representatives of the
United States.
Thursday, sth June, 1794.
The House, according to the order of
the day, resolved itfelf into a committee
of the whole House on the report of the
committee, to whom was referred the re
monstrance of'the People weft of the Al
leghany Mountain, relative to the Navi
gation of the river Mifiifippi, and after
some time spent therein, Mr. Speaker fe
fumed the chair, and Mr. Trumbull re
ported, tfiat the curhmittee had, accord
ing to order, had the fame report under
cohfideration, and come to a refojution
thereupon, whicb he delivered in at the
Clerk's table, where the fame was tw'ice
read, and agreed to by the House, as
followeth:
Resolved, That as it appears from the
communications of the Executive, that
the right of the United States to the free
navigation of tht Mifiifippi, is now the
fubjedt of negotiation with the Court of
Spain, and as it the interest of the Uni
ted States, and every part thereof, to
come to an amicable*, adjuilment of the
right in that mode, rather than resort to
any means constitutionally belonging to
• the Legislature, no farther proceeding
(llould be had on the said
during the present fefilon of Congrtfs.
Extract from the journal,
JOHN BECKLEY, Clerk.
d iw.- -W2in.*, f .
_ —w»a—— —■——g»-*•»»
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
The Speech of Mr. Smith, (S. C.) cn^
the motion to Jlrike out the Jixth feSion ef
the kill, " For the punishment-os certain
Crimes againfi the United, States."
j>
[Concluded.]
The treaty of Paris in 1763 and the
treaty of commeice in 1786, both of
which confirmed the treaty of Ut?echt,
stipulated that the enemies of tlie two
powers, viz. France and Great Britain,
(hould not be allowed to fell their privet in
the forts of either party.
Were there any doubt remaining on
this head, the practice of France herfclf
would remove it. Her edi&s, forbidding
the sale of prizes in her ports, while in
a (tate of neutrality, by aiiy belligerent
power, and directing her vefTels of war to
carry their prizes into the ports of France
where they were fitted out, would fuffi
ciently evince her confirmation ot these
treaties. See Valin's commentaries on
the marine ordinances of France, 272,
2 77-
An argument has been attempted in
another place, to be deduced from the
convention with the Dutch, relative to the
fills prixes, and from the 2 J article of
our treaty with Fiance, which secures to
her the privileges of the mqjl favored na-'
tion.
To this several answers may be given,
1 ft. The Convention with the Dutch was
a special convention relating to a special
cafe, viz. to the then exilting war, in
which both Holland and the United States
were engaged, as co parties ; Hone of the
provisions of that convention can relate
to a cafe where the United States are at
peace. The circumstances of that con
vention being a separate instrument from
the treaty of commerce, tho' dated on the
fame day explains that it was intended for
a special and temporary object, and not
like the treaty of commerce meant to be
a permanent compact : The preamble re
cites that it is intended to establish some
uniform principles, with relation to prizes
made by vefiels of war upon their common
enemies,
2dly. The sth article of that conven
tion ftipuhates that the priz.es of either
party may be fold in their ports
as far as may be confident with the 22d ar
ticle of the treaty of commerce, which ar
ticle however provides that the treaty with
Holland (hall not in any manner derogate
from the 22d article of the treaty with
France ; now by that article in the French
tr a'y, the Dutch are expressly prohibi
ted from felling their prizes in our ports ;
if Holland then does-not now pofiefs the
right, how can France derive it through
Holland ?
3<Hy, The 2d article of our treaty
with France only stipulates that each par
ty enjoy all the privileges of the molt
favored nation, on allowing the fame
compensation, if the conceflion was condi
tional ; but France, as has been shewn,
cannot confidently with good faith and
an adheience to her treaties, grant us the
fame compensation in similar circumstan
ces ; (he would, theitfore not be entitled
to this privilege, granted to Holland on
terms of reciprocity, supposing the privi
lege still to exist.
It remains to consider this important
quedion on the ground of expediency.
Abandoning the idea of right,'is it
expedient and politic to permit the sale of
French prizes in the United States ?
In contemplating this point, the deter
mination ought not to be influenced by
any prepofleffions in favor of one or an
tipathies against another nation : the true
ground of national policy should be taken,&
therefult should be that which is molt con- I
fiftent with our national interest. That the
permission to France to fell her prizes in
our ports would be advantageous to that
nation, and inconvenient to her enemies,
will not be denied ; but it is the very cir
cumstance of its thus being advantageous
to one and inconvenient to others of the
belligerent powers, which makes it inex
pedient.
* Were we prepared and resolved to be
come a party in the war, prompted ei
ther by gratitude sot one, or resentment
against another, of the powers at war, it
would be proper that we Ihould at once
take our fide and pursue hostile steps; but
if the policy of the country still points to .
peace and invites to neutrality, it follows,
indispensably, that we must ftriaiy in
here to the line of neutrality. Tnere is
no intermediate station between peace and
.var. Whatever may have, been out legi
bility in icfpedl to injuries received, poli
cy has for the prefeTit didatcd to the go
vernment of ths United States a pacific
system, and as long as that system (hall
be the prevailing one, consistency requires
an adherence to the principles it incul
cates, The queflion then resolves itfclf
into this, is the voluntary permifiion to
one of the belligerent powers'to fell her
prizes in the ports of a neutral power,
while the fame privilege is withheld from
others, even our allies, a breach of neu
trality ? A recurrence to writers of au
thority, as well as the reason of th*
thing, will compel us to aiifwer in the
affirmative. Vattel, page a J s ' "33
long as a neutral nation Willies to enjoy
this situation with certainty, it ought to
(hew in every thing an exact impartiality
between those who are at war ; for if it
favors the one to the prejudice of the ot ki
ll caftnot complain when that other (hall
treat it as an adherent and afTociate of
the enemy, its neutrality would be a frau
dulent one of which no one would be the
dupe." Mr. JeJferfon, in the printed cor
respondence, page 60, speaking of the
fitting out privateers, fays, " Since we
are bound by treaty to refufe it to the
one party, and arc free to refufe it to the
othex, tve are bound by the laws of neu
trality to refufe it to that other." In page
67, he fays that the permission to fell pri
zes in neutral ports is unfounded in the
practice of France, and he believes of all
other nations.
It is certain that France has paffid fo
vere laws against it, and that were we now
at war with any Eutopean power arid
France neuter, we (hould not enjoy that
privilege in her ports. The question is
not confined to Great Britain and France,
and it is not enough to fay, " we have
received injuries from the former and be
nefits from the latter, and therefore we
(hould grant a special indulgence to one
to the detriment of the other." Other
nations aie seriously Jtffefted by the decisi
on. 'Spain, Holland, and Pruflia are co
parties in the war against France ; (there
is indeed an appearance of a withdrawing
of the latter, though not yet ascertained.)
We have no idea of going to waV with
the firft ; with the two last, we have trea
ties of amity and commerce ; it is not im
probable, should the war continue, that
Sweden may be implicated as one of the
combined powers ; with her sve have also
a treaty of amity and commerce. A
permission to France to fell her prizes will
be a special privilege for her benefit, to
the injury of Spain and Holland certain
ly, and probably Sweden. Should we
feel no peculiar partiality for Spain, yet it
ought not to be foigotten that fhc lent us
money during our war with England and
combined with France to aid us : Grati
tude (hould fuggelt a recollection of the
fervicesrenderedus by Holland, and (hould
forbid a departure from neutrality, which
would eflentially affect her intereils. In
our treaty with Holland, it is exprefled
" that there shall be a firm inviolable nnd
universal peace and sincere friendihip be
tween the two countries." Would it be
a sincere friendfhip on our part to facili
tate to their enemies the capture of their
veflels by permittiig the sale of them in
our ports ?
In regard to Great Britain, a negocia
tion is now depending for a redress of
our wrongs. Whether or not there was
fufficient cause of immediate war against
that notion, or whether it was wife in the
government to prefer the path of negotia
tion to that of hostility, arequeftions not
now to bedifcufled ; the path of negocia
tion has been entered, and ought not to
be deviated from till it has been fairly ex
plored. Would a departuie from the
line of neutrality, as it relates to that nati
on, be, under the present circumstances,
confident with found policy ? Undoubted
ly not. I would not furnifh her with even
this pretext for a refufal to do us justice ;
I would afford every aid, every chance for'
a fuccefsful negociation ; I would avoid
throwing any impediment whatever in its
way ; and having acted thus, (hould my
expeaations be disappointed, I (hall f ee l
myfelf juftified in exposing my country to
all the calamities of war, to endeavor to
extoit by force that which justice and mo
deration (hall have failed to obtain.
There are other considerations aritlng
out wi the question of expediency, which
claim some notice. The sale of prizes in
I
... " ' \ .
our poits will have an immediate tenden
cy to encreafe the number of privateers On
our coasts, to embarrass and diflrefs our
commerce, and to fofterthat spirit of pri
vateering among our own citizens, which,
at the fame time that it is a diredt violation
of neutrality, leads to the introdudSbn of
immoial habits. And heie I cannot for
bear once more quoting the former secre
tary of state who, in page 63 of the
printed correspOndence, fays, " Were the
merchant veflels coming for our produce
forbidden to have any arms for their de
fence, every adventurer who has a boat,
or money enough to buy one, would make
her a privateer ; our coasts would fwai m
with them, foreign vessels mull cease to
come, our commerce muji be Jupprejjtd, our
produce remain on our hands, or at least
that great portibn of it, which we have
not veflels to carry away, our ploughs muji
be laid aside, and agriculture fufpcndecl. j
This is a facrifiee 110 treaty could ever |
contemplate, and which we are not dis
posed to make out of mere com plaiiarice
to a falle definition of the term privateer."
The pernicious consequences above des
cribed would equally flow fiom the allow
ance to fell prizes. From a view there
fore of the whole fubjedt, it clearly results
that the sale of prizes is not stipulated by
the treaty; that if it were, it would be
null, as repugnant to prior treaties
and not reciprocal ; that it is unfounded
in the practice of France hrrfelf, and that
it is inexpedient, as diredlly contravening
the laws of neutrality, and as prejudici.il
to our commercial interests, and the mo
rals of our citizens-
Foreiyri Intelligence.
o o
MADRID, March 20.
"The duke of Crillon and count O'Rei
ly have been called to a council with the 1
commanders ot the arnjies, to deliberate
oa the plan to be followed for the present
campaign.—Although conjectures only
can be formed, I understand that it was
fettled to adopt the plan of general Ric
cardos, which has been adted upon hither
to—that is, that the armies of Navarre
and Arragon shall keep themfelvcs totally
on the defenfive and that the aimy of
Roufiiilon shall be augmented as much as
poflible, and shall a£t ofFenfively.
" The count DAranda, dean of the
council, and the only statesman in Spain,
except Florida Blanea, read upon this oc
casion a memorial detailed at great length
upon the Kit campaign and upon that
which is to open. He examined and dif
cufled what were the true interests of Spain,
in the present moment, and in the (fill
more alarming crisis which was fact ap
proaching, and he stated with franknefs
of wiidom what precautions they ought to
taise, that they might not be involved in
the general consequences of the present
fyttem. He said, n this memorial, that }
Spain ought not to have blind confidence
either in the intentions or the means .of
the combined powers, A'liofe heated palTi
ons were evidently predominate over the
reason which ought alone to preside in
their deliberatiqps. x
" The council, wholly composed of
men without knowledge and without ex
perience, paid no regard to these confeder
ations. In the fitting of the 17th M. D'-
Aranda insisted, with it ill more energy,
on the fubjedt which he had submitted to
them, and called upon them by every mo
tive dear to them as Spaniards, to pause
before they plunged their sovereign and
their country into inextricable ruin. This
liberty displeased the favorite, the duke
of Alcudia, who dictates to the council;
and two hours after the fitting, M. D'A
tanda received an order to depart forth
with for Jaen, a city in Andalusia. This
order was fignified to him by the govern
or of Aranjuez, who accompanied him for
some leagues on his journey.
" M. D'Aranda received this' letter de
cachet with the utmoll tranquility and
like a 1 man accustomed to such prtffents.
His preparations for departure were made
in halt an hour. He carries with him in
to his exile the certainty that events will
confirm his predictions. He has raised a
monument that will prove to posterity that
he was the only statesman in Spain, who
knew the true interests of his country in
the present crisis. His banishment is a
triumph for the tools of the favorite ; and
the ministers of the combined powers seem
also not a little pleased, at what they call,
his disgrace.
" General Riecardos died here on the
I9thinilant; the court appointed count
•sr?-" Eg,;-. '
O'Reilly to succeed him, but he also died
on his route t6 take Ihe command of the
army. In his room the court has appointed '
the count De L' Union, who at the fame
time was governor and captain general of"
Catalonia. He is a veiy young man, but
; it is ftid that he has' militarv talents- he
j Is a&ive, and very much beloved by' the
troops, particularly by the Cataloniana.
" It Is not thought that he will be soon "
able? to commence In's Operations, as the
number of lick (till continues to be from
16 to 18,000 men. It is thought the
carnpaign will open with the fuge of Puj.
e'erda, where it is not believed that the
French can hold out lori£, .as the fortifica
tions are trilling. M. dc Lanc-ara is ex .
pe&fd to fail in tSe beginning of next
month, to t'dke .on board the prince of
Parma, who is to embark at Leghorn."
LONDON, April 11.
The arte it of Danton aad his friends has
been long forefeen by those who knew his
eh a rafter. There is iio accusation a«ainft
I him of counter-reov Attiomry plots ; but
bis corruptions have been eiioimotis. Bolh
he and La Croix have amafled an enor
: inoiis sims of trrafure by the mott abomi
nable means, while RobefpWire remains'
unimpeacbed as to the eleannefs of his
hands. This is the opinion of those who
: are the best acquaint d with the Itate of
| parties in France and this opinion, which
I 1S general, has earned Robeipierre thro'
with triumph in ail his meafuns.
He will now, it is saul propose his plzin
of government in which Religion wiii muke
a conilituent pait, fre ed from the ceremo
nies of eliabiilhment on the one hand, but
,equally removed from licentioufnefi on the
01 her. He has already given notice that
he has a p*oje6t of a plan to lay before the
alfemb'y. , •
All attempts to ftaive France are now
frtrfl rated, They are within a few weeks
of having a crop of potatoes fnfficient for
thendelves for the confurription of a year.
To reconcile the people to this food, and
to encourage their cultivation, apamphk-t
was circulated with great induftiv among
the farmers—the leading points of which'
are, that corn is the food chosen bv ty
rant* and ftnpofc'dupon mankind, becanfe
they have it thereby in their power to
ilai ve nations at their pleasure. It re
quires hait the year's labor of man to p e
pare it; a thousand ciicnnftances mull con
cur to its maturity and to its converlion
into bread ; armies trample it under foot
—and it cannot be concealed under roof
trorn the ravages ol wa-.
But polices seem dellined to be the |
food of Republicans in the moment of Re
volution;' The fame tpot of earth th3t
with great labor, and with all the rifle of
bad seasons, would produce corn oi.ly for
the fubiiltance of one man, would without ' 1
hbrr comparatively,, and ftlmoll indepen
dent of seasons, produce potatoes for'ten
men.—They require na mills to grind
them—no granaries to preserve them—
they could not be tiodden down, like
fields of corn, by armies, and the moment
that they were dug out of the generous
earth, they were ready for the life of man.
This argument set forth with all the
flowery eloquence of the French fsJhool,
lias had its cfieft ; and we under/land that
every corrter of France is likely to be molt
plentifully fumilhed with this ufeful root.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Sunday, March 23. ■
The fitting was opened by deputations
from levelal communes, felicitating the
Convention 011 the discovery of a grand
conspiracy againll liberty.
Richard, a nationalTeprefentative, stat
ed, that he wasjuHarriyed from the north
ern army, which had received the news of
the conspiracy with the molt profound in
dignation. The soldiery had heard with
horror, that the men whom they had
fleemed patriots had attempted to snatch
from them the fruit of labors and
their blood—Liberty. In the army itiell,
the plot had some ramifications, and se
veral individual* who had kept up 3 cor
refp.nidence with the principal conspira
tors, had been put under arrelt.—" Our
brave defenders," continued Richard,
" pant to meet the enemy ; and we, in
•perfan, (hall soon lead tbem into the field.
Our advanced ports have lived at their ex
pence for these five weeks part. From one
end- of the line to the othe-, an ardent
con rare which will surmount every diffi
culty is displayed ; and in a little time the
army of the north will obtain triumph.
equal to those of the army of the R.mu.
—(Great Applause.) ,
*V
~PHILADELPHI A,
JUNE 9«
This forenoon at 11 o'clock, the two llou
fts oi Congress "adjourned to die firlt Mon
day in NovcnVocr next —then to meet in this
city.
FkOM jl CORUFSPONDFNT.
THE SESSION OF CONGRESS.
Two nttratfl our attention
to the history of the feffon of Congress jtlft
closed; a representation according to the enu
meration of the inhabitants, and the extra
ordinary events of foreign politics which
have greatly affected the sentiments and in
tcrcfts of the people, and the proceedings of
the Legislature. The long boStled triumph
of the murmunn;: and acctifim; party has
not happened. An equal reprcfemation of
the citizens has'not unraveled tlie systems of
the two former Legiflaturcs. ,No mighty
frauds hiA'e been exposed, no great offend
ers hive been brought to ftfaine or to justice.
Sc fir from it the malice of the faction has
k< p> a fact instead of a feafl. For instead of
freafury corruption, instead Of abuses in the
departments* a committee of the house
of Representatives after a molt accurate ex
amination have tinted in th?ir report an au
thentic and itnanfwerable refutation to the
whitWered fufpiciohs and bold lies of five
years. The eqnal reprcfentation of the peo
ple has given a new /auction to the eftabiifh*
«•<! lyffeir.s. The provision for the balances
du. to the creditor states, snd the auxiliary
fine's of new taxes indicate steadiness and
p rfeverance, which will fectire the general
interest of the people and the refpetflability
of the Legislature infinitely better than the
frothy novelties and pernicious changes
which some factious men had hoped to in
troduce. The new members have brought
their proportion of patriotifm,of attachment
to order and to the present government as
well as of good sense. After this if will be
rather bold, but not too bold for those who
have become by practice hardened in calum
ny, to fay, that the people are averse to, the
government arid its eltablifted fvltems. The
rdort to a committee for plans of finance
instead of calling upon the Treasury accord
ing to the existing law and former usage has
not produced any of the advantages nor
drawn after it the changes which
were predicted.
In (hort, it appears from the session that
the government and its me«fures have the
popular fancftion and support. The aifls and
votes of the representatives of the people af
ford better proof that they have, than- the
newspaper squibs of a half dozen clamorous
malcontent* in eath of our large towns, that
they haw not. Yet it is to be expected, the
chroniclers of scandal will go on as before
to call themfclvcs /' he people.
If we attend to the measures of Congress,
we fhali fee one system in them all. A system
of peace. To make the chance of peace the
best possible, they have made preparation for
war. These fern words explain the history
of the lalt session. Those who like secret
hiltory will find abundant materials for their
curiosity.
1 he great aim of the party and the insi
dious measures they took to carry their point,
w .11 be known and understood. The steady
citizens who feel an interest in good order
will fee the extreme hazard of our peace and
honor, and will rejoice in the termination of
the session.Events may turn out unfavorable,
and war may ensue. But it will be a merited
praise even then of the government that they
have done all to avert the calamity, and much
perhaps enough, to prepare for it. The style
of debate has often' been too personal, and
lomfjtimes, tho' very seldom there has been
a grofsnefs and intemperance of language
which a deliberative body fhoulrl always
dili ountenance. But the state of affairs fur
nifhed some palliations, and we flatter our
selves in future to fee Congress quoted as a
pattern of temperate dignity and wisdom.
Says a Correfpomlent,
The Democratic Society resolve one thing,
the President of the United States resolves
another—A House divided against itfelf can
not stand—One cannot serve God and Mam
mon. If the Envoy of the President of the
United States should go to the Court of
London and demand indemnity for the sei
zure ot our vessels, and the Envoy from the
1 resident of the Demo Society should go
and fay we had rather not have indemnitv,
matters would really stand iu a quere pof
t)ure Lord Grenville would fay, gentlemen
do agree among yourselves. It is evidently
tue with of that party to prevent any allow
ance for our injuries. Why ? Take away
the complaints and what else have they to
Hand on ?
/. c have hen favored by a gentleman of this
City with the following interring arti
cle received by the Jhip Harmony from
Bourdeaux.
Extradt from the record of the Commit
tee of Public Safety of the National
Convention, dated yth day of Germinal,
the .econd year of the French Repub
lic, on,e and indivilible.
ON the report made by the Minister of
°reign Affairs, relative to the reprefen
*
tations rtiade by the United States, Dc n
mark, Sweden, Genoa and the HanfWns,
to obtain the railing of the Embargo laid
on a,l foreign vefiels actually detained at
Bordeaux—
Conlidering that the motives which
gave room for this Embargo, no longer
exilt ; and that it becomes the dignity
and justice of the Republic to grant fuf
fieient indemnities to the foreign proprie
tors of {hips, whose intereils have fuffcr
ed by the Embargo, and to facilitate ths
depaityre of their vessels—
The Committee of Public Safety, by
virtue of the powers delegated to them
by the Decree of the i 4 th I'nmaire, f2 t h
Uecember, j v r
Resolve as follows :
1. The Embargo laid upon all foreign
ships at Bordeaux, (hall be raised without
delay, and the Captains are at full liberty
to oepart, conforming themfclves never
thele.s to the laws and decrees relative to
the exportation of goods.
2. No foreign fliip that arrived at Bor
deaux before the 12th of Nivofe, (The
lit of January,) and detained in corife
cu r.ee of the Embargo, (hall pay any
ot tier duties than those that were exacted
from foreign vessels before that epoch.
3- The Captains or proprietors fnall
produce accounts of their expences, and
ot the indemnities they cki'rn, to the Ad
min, llrators of the navy; who are to for
ward them with their observations to the
Executive Council.
The Executive Council shall fix the
indemnity to be granted to the Captains
or proprietors which fhail be paid them,
or to their atrornies, upon the approved
ckcifion of the committee'of public falety.
4- Ihe Captains (hall be at liberty to
fret an export, on account of this indemni
ty, and without waiting for its fixation,
the necessary provisions for their return
voyages.
5. The committee of public fafety,
leave at the disposal of the Minillcr of
the navy the sum of Eight hundred thou
sand livres, to be advanced to tin; Cap
tains on account of their indemnities, ac
cording to their respective wants, to be
ve, ified by the Confnls of their nations.
s 6. The Minister of the navy, as soon
as he has ships of" war which lie can dis
pose of, is directed to escort beyond the
cape, filch ot the neutral vessels as are ex
posed to the depredations of the Barbary
privateers.
7. Ihe Minillcr of foreign affairs, is
to acquaint the different Governments it
concerns with this resolution, and the Mi
nister of the navy is to put it into execu
tion in the molt speedy manner polfible.
Signed in the Regijler,
B. BARRERE,
B. LINDET,
CARNOT,
BILLAUD VARENNES,
COLLOT D'HERBOIS,
SAINT-JUST,
ROBESPIERRE,
C. A.PRIEUR.
By extraS }
Signed,
BILLAUD VARENNES,
B. LINDET.
For copy,
DEFORGUE,
For copy,
JOSEPH FFNWICK.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, June 7.
sIDDRESSt
JOSEPH PRIESTLY, l. L. D. F. r . s .
Sir, 1
WE are appointed by the Democratic
Society of the city us New-York, a com
mittee to congratulate you on yotir arri
val in this country : And we feel the most
lively pleasure in bidding you a hearty
welcome to thele shores of Liberty and
Equality.
While the arm of Tyranny is extended
in most of the nations of the world, to
crush the spirit of liberty, and bind in
chains the bodies and minds of mtn, we
acknowledge, with ardent gratitude to the
great parent of the Univerl'e, our lingular
felicity in living in a land, where Reason
has fuccefsfully triumphed over the artifi
cial diitindtioiifi of European policy and
bigotry, and where the law equally pro
teds the virtuous citizen of every descrip
tion and persuasion.
On this occasion wc cannot but observe,
that we oneo eftccmed dtirfelves happy m !
the relation that fnbfiJlcd between us and
the government of Great Britain—frit
t ie multiplied opprtfiions which charac
ter, /.e that government, excite in us the I
molt pfiinful fenfatigj;,s, and exhibit a fpec
,as i« itfelf,"as diftonorable
to the Britlfti name.
Ihe governments of the old woiM
present to us one huge mal's of intrigue,
corruption', and defpotifni— mod of them
a ;. e n °"' bafe 'y combined, to prevent the
eltabLlhment of .Liberty in France, and to
ettett the total deduction of the Rights
or Mart. Under these affldting circum
itaiices, we rejoice that America opens
her arms to receive, with fraternal affec
tion, the Friend of Liberty and Human
Happiness, and that here he may enjoy
the belt bieffings'of civilized society.
We sincerely Sympathize with you in
a'l that you have fuffered, and we con
iiuer the perfeewtion with whicTi you have
been pursued by a venal court, and an
imperious uncharitable priest-hood, as an
ilhiltrioiis proof 6f your personal merit,
and a biting reproach to that govern
ment, fiom the grasp of whose tyranny
you are so happily removed.
Accept, Sir, of the sincere and bed
wiihes oif the Society whom we repre
sent, for the continuance of your health,
a.id the inereafe of your individual and
domelHc hippinefs.
JAMES NICHOLSON, Prejident.
To the Members of the Democratic So
clety in New-York;
GE NTLEMEN,
VIEWING with the deepest concern,
as you do, the profpeft that is now exhi
bited in Europe, those troubles which are
the natural offspring of their forms of go
vernment, originating, indeed, inthe ("pi
nt of liberty, but gradually degenerating
into tyrannies, equally degrading to the
rulers and the ruled, I rejoice in finding an
afyium from persecution in a count y in
which tlufe abuies have come to a natural
termination, and produced another system
of liberty, founded on such wile principles;
as, I trull, will guard again It all future a-'
buses ; those artificial diftinftioHS in focie-.
ty ; from which they sprung, being com
pleately eradicated, that protection from
violence, which laws and government pro
mise in all countries, but which I have
not found in my own, 1 doubt not I (hall
find with you, though I cannot promise to
be a beiter iubjedt of this government, than,
my whole conduct will evince that I have
been to that of Great Britain.
Jultly, however, as I think I may com
plain of the treatment 1 have met with in
England, 1 sincerely wish her prosperity,
and from the good-will I bear both to that
country and this, I ardently wi(h, that all
former animosities may be fjrgotten, and
that a perpetual friendlhip may subsist be
tween them.
J. PRIESTLEY.
New-York, June 6, 17941
Captain Ofman, in the (hip Harmony,
arrived heie yelterday from Bourdeaux,
which he left the 26th April, informs,
that great naval preparations waie making
in the ports of the republic, for an expe
dition which was ltudioufly kept a secret ;
that its affairs in general appeared to be in
a very prosperous train , but had heard
nothing material refpe&ing the operations
of the armies. The people as one approv
ed the execution of Danton and his affoci
at<;s. The embargo at Bourdeatlx was
railed about the 18th and a further indem
nification granted. Captain O. .left in
company with twelve other meichantmen
under convoy of 3 French armed vessels.
Gen. Adv.
An Eafteromail arrived vefterday with
Briti(h April packet papers and letters.—
they are only to the sth or 6th, and there
fore, contain nothing new-
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
Arrived, (hip Roebuck, Bliss, 70 days
ficm Briltol.
A pilot informs that he favv about 12
or 13 fail (>f fcjuare rigged veflels on Sa
turday 1 last coming into the Capes—the
lame night passed a large Eriglifh (hip be
low Bombay Hook, which is said to be a
letter of mark from Liverpool, (hewing
18 guns.
C'npT. Ofmon failed with the (nip Tho
mas Wilson, Capt. Collett, of Fhiladel-'
phia, and a (hip belonging to Charlelton,
homeward—that the Daniflr brig City of
Altona, Capt. Eiveftes,tailed for this port
A
15 days before he left Boyrdeaux ; *
1 Carne out in ballaii and had a numb»r •
i paflengers on board ; atnd the (hip Rari
j bier. Cap*. Quirk, 3 days before him,
I for Philadelphia; thcfliip Baring, CoOper,
do. and the (hip American, Ewing, do.-
were taking in cargoes for this port.
On the id of June, in lat. 38, 29,
long. 70, 30, he (poke the brig Harrfot,
trom Philadelphia, out 4 days, bound to
Amsterdam, all well.
11 **. The Letter-Bag of the Atlantic, Pi
ns S waine mailer, for Liverpool, will be ta
ken from the Post Office, to-morrow morn
ing at 9 o'clock.
NEW THEATRE.
(E> The Managers refpedfully inform
the t üblic, that the Chiefs and IVarriors of
the CheroLee Nation, <who have lately ar
rived :n Philadelphia to negociaie a Treaty
oj Ptace •with the United States, will til
tend the Entertainments of the Theatre this
Evening.
—j —:—
For Charter,
FOUR A fRIENDS,
They* will lie ready 10 receive their car-
Roe-. i i a few days, and will carry about
32. o bafels c».ch. For term? ajfplv to
7"SSE & ROBERT WALK.
June 9. J
FOR SALE,
At the STORES of
JefTe & Robert Wain,
PORT WINE in pip.s, bhds. and quar
ter calks ' 1
LISBON doi in pipes and quarter calks
Souchong and Congo TEAS, in quarter
chests
A quantity of Lisbon and Cadiz SALT
Soft flieliety ALMONDS in bales
Vel etCORK-, in do.
Kuilxa MATTS.
e 9 d
NEW THEATRE. .
Mrs. Morris's Night.
thjs evening,
June 9.
Will be Presented,
(Y\ ith permifiion of the author, George
Colman, jun. Efq.J an historical Play, in-*
terlperfed with songs, Called
Ihe Battle of Hexham;
DAYS of'OLD.
Montague, Mr. Greert
arwt-'k, • Mr. Cleveland
Semeriet, k Mr. Warrell
La Varen ne, Mr. Moret ou
Corporal, Mr. Harwood
Drummer, Mr. Francis
Flf ar, Mr. Blifi'et
Fool, Mr. Wigriell
barton. Mr. Whitlock
ift Soldier, Mr. De Moulin
2d Soldier, Mr. J. Darley
iit Villager, Mr. Finch
2d Villager, Mr. Morris
Gcndib.ftf Mr. Fenneli
iJIRoI ber, Mr. Darley
2d Robber, Mr. Madhall
3d Robber, Mr. Lee
4th Robber, Mr. Baton
Gregory GubbinS, Mr. Bates
Prince Edward, Master T. Warrell
Margaret of Anjou, Mi s. Whitlock
Adeline, Mrs. Marlhall
Singing Villagers, Mrs. Warrell, Mrs.
Olc'mixon, Miss Broad
hurft,Mil's Willems.Mrs.
Rowfon,Mrs. Bates, Airs.
Cleveland, Mrs. Finch,
Miss Rovtfon, Madame
Gardie, &c.
With the original Overture and Accompa
niments.
To •which pill be added,
A Comedy, in two a£ts, called
The True-born Irijhman ;
o R,
THE IRISH FINE LADY.
Mdrrough O'Dogherty, Mr. Whitlock
Count Mulhroom, Mr. Wi^nell
Counsellor Hamilton, Mr. Gn.en
Major Gamble, Mr. Morris
John, Mr. Bliffrt
William, Mr. J. Darley
James, Mr. De Moulin
Mis. Diggerty, Mr. Morris
Lady Kinnegad, Mrs. Bates
Lady Bab f rightful, Mrs. Rowfon
Mrs. Cazette, Mrs. Cleveland
Kitty Farrell, Miss Willems
Tickets to be had of Mrs. Morris, at Mr.
Berthai'lc's, Third nearChefnut (Ireet.
At the usual places, and of Mr. f rapklin
at the Theatre, where places may be taken,
Mrs. WKITLOCIv's Night will be on
Wednefilay next.
The Tragedy of The MOURNING
BRIDE, with Three Weeks after ATarri.ive
Mr. I'lNCH's Night will Le cn Friday. ~"KV" 1
<s~
Philadelphia, March, i >794-
JUST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market Jlrcet,
!_>£ FIRST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM Of
Modern Geography :
OR, A
Geographical, Hijlorical, ana
Commercial Grammar;
And prefeut state of the several
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAINING,
1. Th* motions, and diilances of
the planets,according so the Newtonian sys
tem and tJie fated observations.
2. A general'view earth,confidere d
as a planetpvith feveraljufeful geographica
definitions and problems.
3 The g' and divisions of the giobe into
land and water, continent* and islands.
4. The situation and extent of empires,
kingdoms,ftates, provinces and colonies.
5. Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
pVoduftions, metals, minerals, natural ciiri
oTities,Teas, rivers,bays, capes, promontories,
aud lake*;.
6. The birds and beasts peculiar to each
country.
7. Observations on the changes that have
been any where observed upon the face of
nature since the m'oft earlyj periods of his
tory.
8. The History and origin of nations;
tlitni forms of government, religion, law.,
revemie^taxes,naval and military strength
9. The genius, manners, customs, anc
habits of the people.
10. Their language,ler.r'ning,arts,*fcien
ces, manufactures, and commerce.
11. The chief cities, flru&mes, ruins
and artificial curiplities
12. The longitude, 1 latitude, btari- gs
and distances of principal places fVomPhiia
delpliia.
r __„ To w ' /ch are added,
t. A \phic ai. Index, with the
names and places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Table ot the Coins of all natidns,
and their value in dollars and cents.
3- A Chronological Table of remarka
ble events,from the creation to the pre-tent
time.
i By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Astronomical Pa»t corrected by
Dr. Rittenhouse.
To which have- been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Hers c hell,
arid other ttoineirt Astronomers
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrcfted, Improved, and greatly Enlar-
ged.
The firft voUiipe contains twenty-one
Maps end Charts,belides two Astronomical
Plates, viz.
i. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the
worle 3. Europe. 4. Asia. 5. Africa. 6.
South America. 7* Cook's difcovcies.
8. Countries round the north Pole. 9.
Sweden, Denmark, and Norway. ! iO. Se
ven United Provinces. 11. Austrian,
French and Dutch Netherlands. 12. Ger
many. 13 Seat of war in France. 14.
France divided into departments. 15.
Switzerland. :6. Italy, Sicily, and Sar
dinia. 17. Spain and Portugal. 18.
Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19. Ire
land. 20. Weft-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22.
Ar miliary sphere. 23. Copernitan system.
With the lecond volume, which is now
in the press, will be given the following
Maps :
1. Ruflia in Europe and Asia.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
5. China.
6. Hindoftan.
7. United States.
8. Briti£h America.
9. State of New-Hampfliire.
16. State of Maffacbafetts.
H. State of Conne&icut. *
ra. State of Rhode Island.
ij State of New-York.
State of New-Jei fey.
is* State ot Pennsylvania
16. State of Delaware.
17- State of Maryland.
State of Virginia.
19* State of Kentucky.
20. State of North-Carolin.
21. TennefTee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina. %
23* State of Georgia.
TERMS.
i. This work will be compriied in two
volumes.
i. subscribers pay for the present volume
ondehvery, fix dollars, and the price of
binding, (j6 cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the fuc. ceding vo
lume In twenty-four weekly numbers, at
a quarter dollar each, or else, when si
; L at the fame P rice as the firft.
£ npt ' on wilbe raired on the
iirlt day of June 1794. to fourteen dol
larsj exclusive of binding.
J. Should any copies remain for sale after
the completion of the work, they will be
fold at Mxteen dollars, and the price of
binding. r
6. The names of the fuWcribers will be
pubulhed as patrons of American litera
ture, arts, and sciences.
It i» wholly unneceflary to expatiate on
the advantage,to American reader,, that
tlm.edition poffefTas, over every imported
anyfyftem of Ge'og aphy extant.
The addit tion of maps of thefeveral testa i
procured a very great expense, and from'
belt materials that are attainable,
.-y.v T^l-
fpralc? fucli fall coriviflion on this {object
that it would be difrefpeft to tie
undvltanding to suppose it requisite
to enter into a detail ot .rgurhent. ro
prove its fdperionty. I" nofimilarwork
have fucli maps bsenever innoduced.
The eniendatioiisand addittons whic
are made in this work,are innumerable, and
occur in every page. The public are re_
fened to tTie piet'ace for a lltglit (ketch
of a few of them.
The publisher takes the present oppor
tunity of returning his most (incere thanks
to those refpeftable characters who have
favored him with documents for improv
ng the mapsof several of the ftatcs. He
requests a conti nuance of their >
atid hopes that such pnblis spirited .citizens
as are pofiefled of similar documents, u i• 1
favor him with theirafllftance in p€rfctt-
ing his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he has been favored, has excited
in hisbreaft thfe warmcft (entiments of gra
titude—fen time nts wjtich time will not ef
face. He pledges himfelf to the citizens
of the United States, to fpnre neither pains
nor expense to render the present edition
of Guthrie's Geog' aphy improved, deferv
i g M' their patronage. waftf
Joseph Clark,
ARCHITECT AT ANNAPOLIS,'
Proposes to publijb, by fubfeription,
POLYMATHY j
O R
The American Builder.
A Work calculated equally to edify and en
tertain the Gentleman, Farmer,Sur-
veyor, Builder & Mechanic.
THIS work, will contain various opinions
if the belt writer® on Architecture, Arts,
»nd Science; together with experiments, and
accurate notes of obfeivation, by the uthor;
br ing the result of thirty years Itudy and ex
perience in profeflion.
It will alio contain an alphabetical account
of the quality and value of the various kinds
of mateii'als, and numerous species of labor,
exp nded on building.
Exrmpl fixations, to ascertain the quanti
ties of materials and labor neccfl'ary to com
plete, almost, every part in a building, of
whatever dimensions.
An account and explanation of all the
terms and phrases, ufei in ancient and mo
dern archite&ure and building.
To persons inclined to build, it w ill afford
an opportunity of icgulating thcij plans with
in ihecompafs of their finance?, and prepare
them to prevent impositions Irom tricking
venders of materials, and extoriiona'e work
men—To Mechanics, who cannot, for want
of expnience, calculate the value ot their
refpeftiVe labour, and materials expended in
their particular branches of Building, this
work will afford an opportunity 10 estimate
with facii'tv and accuracy, any done or in
tended to be done, either in tne aggregate or
the minutie.
It will contain many curious and valuable
recipes to make fine and coarfc varniftKS,f«r
prelerving roofs of hnufes, barns, palings,
troughs, pipes, &c. Recipes to makevai
ous glues and cements ; recipes to make coin
pofitions for elegant, or minute ornaments,
and enrichments for oufide or inside com
partments : recipes to make compofuion lor
figures and incruftaiiont—to endure the
weather in any alpefct; rccipes to make ftu'e
i co compofiiions, for floors, inalt-lioufes, dif
tillrrirs, healths, linings for ciftcins. & c .
Tables I o afceriain the scantling ol difirreni
species of timber necilTary to perform their
relpeftive functions, in pioportion to their
various ful pen lions : Tables toafceriain ihe
dimensions of the various apertions introdu
ced in differeiifedifi-jcs, and doors, windows
chimmes, fky-lishts, stair-cases, See. in pro J
to iheir different use, and intentions—
whether for beauty or utility : A eoocife
mode to take, and fq„, r e ihe dimensions of
all kinds of artificer's work b«longing t„
buildings, and to ascertain the cubical or f u
p«rficial contents thereof: Obfeivat.ons of
the doffa-me of echo and found : A dona
tion "li the philnfophy, doctrine, and COn
ftriiftion of chimnirs, to void or emit the
'moke. Prupofitions and recipes to cure
smoky chimnies: Observations on the i„ft a
bility of the edifices heretofore, generally"
"'ft.d in- America : Suggestions of modes to
pu.fue m buildings here, that will, without
additional expence, tend more to their dura
bil'ty than those heretofore, commonly, con
itrlifted : Dctcriptions and proportion, of
Ihe general and particular members of vari
nus orders in Architecture, viz. the Tuscan
Doric, lonic, Corinthian, Compofit. Chil
nefe, Attic, Cargat.c, Arabesque, Morefquc,
Orotefque, Saracenic, RuHic, Antique, Antil
quo-Modtin, Gothic, and Britannic : Many
curious h ftorical accounts of various won.
derful buildings ,n different parts ot the
world : Many curious and original account,
and eulogiurns on Free Masonry,
This work will be printed in two octavo
volumes, each to contain upwards of 400
pages, on fine paper of elegant letter prrfs ■
The price to fubferibers, in boards, five
dollars; two and a ha l r do t cars to
be paid on the delivery of the firfl, and two
and a half dollars on the delivery of the
second volume. Mr. ClSrk allures the public,
that he will literally perform all that he hath
let forth in these proposals.
Gentlemen inclined to promote this woik
by fubfcrib,n ff thereto, are requeued to write,
P«ft paid, to Mr. jofeph Clark, a, Annapolis,
authoring him to annex their names to the
lublcripiion lift.
licked ,n rintCr ' i."r' hC U ""f S,a( "- are fo
a Bhce?„fh Ve ' - ,r °P° f,l, > o «aiionally,
a place in their pjpeis.
»•
- m
The following fe&ion
of the law for establishing an Health-Office,
parted the last fefiion of tht Legtflature.
is r -publiftitd lor the information ot all
concerned.
Wm. ALLEN, K< alth-Officer,
for the port o 1 Philadelphia, No. 21,
'Key's alley.
June 2, 1794-
Sec. 7. AND be it further cnafted by the
anthority aforefaid, That every master or
captain of any (hip or vcflel coming from be
vond the sea (vessels actually employed in the
coasting irade of the Untied States'excepted)
and bound to any port or place within the
junfdiftion of Pennsylvania, (half cause his
(hip or vessel to be brought to anchor, or
otherwtfe stayed in the stream of the river
Delaware;, opposite to the health-office on
State-island aforifafd, and there to remain
until he. (ball have duly obtained a certificate
or bill ol health from ihe resident physician,
in the manner and upon the terms herein be
fore dmfted : and if, p'ievioufly to obtain
ing tiich certificate' or bill of lica Ith, any
mafteror captain (hall fuffcr his ship or vessel
to approach nearer than the said health-o'ffice
to ihe city of Philadelphia, or fha] 1 land, or
cause or I'ufFer to be landed, or brought on
shore, at any port place within this com
monwealth, or at any other port or place,
with tfce intent to be conveyed into this com
monwealth, any person or persons, or any
goods* wares or merchandize ; or if a'ter re
ceiving such certificate or bill of health, he
ihaJJ neglect or refufe to deliver the fame
the health-officer agreeably to the directions
ot this ast, such rnafter or captain fii.il! for
feu and pay, for each and every such offence,
the ium of five hundred dollars to be recover
ed and appropriated as hereinafter provided
and directed , and the captain or master of
each and every (hip or vessel, as foou as the
fame is brought to anchor, or other wife stayed
as aforefaid, shall fend a fafe and commodious
boat to bring the resident physician on board
of his ship or ve(Tel, and fhalf in I'ike man
ner convey him back to the health-office
atier he has concluded his official examina
tion; and while he is.making such examina
tion,or" in cafe ol any f«jbf<fqUer*t examination
by the health-officer and confuting phyficidn,
as the cafe may be, and every pari of the
ship or vessel, and shall piefcnt to his view
each and every person on board thereof, and
shall also true and fatiffaftory answers make
to all such questions as the resident physician
at the time of examination, or the health offi
cer at the time of delivering the certificate, or
bill of health, in the city of Philadelphia, or
at the time of examination to be had by the
health-officer together, with the confuting
phyfiician fhailffk relative to the heafth ol < r\y
port or place from which the ship or vt ffel
failed, or has since touched at, the number of
persons on board when the fhipOr vessel en
tered on her voyage, the number of persons
that have since been landed or taken on
board, and when or where refpeftively, what
persons on board,if any have been diirin g the
voyage, or [hall at any time of examination*
be infected with any pestilential or coniagt-,
otis d f ale, what person belonging to 'the ship
or veffe', if any died during the voyage, and
of what disease, and what is the pn sent (late
and condition of the persons on board with
refpeft to thxir hcalih and difcafcv; and if
any captain or nvafter of any (hip or vessel
shall refufe to expose the fame as aforefaid to
the search and examination of the tefident
physician, or of the health-officer and confut
ing physician, as the cafe may be ;'or it, hav
ing on board his (hip or vessel any such per
son or persons, he shall conceal the fame, or
if in any manner whatsoever he (hall know ing
ly deceive or attempt to deceive the propel
officers aforefa'd in his answers to iheir offici
al enquiries, such captain or master, for each
and every s U ch offence, (hall forfeit and pay
the sum of five hundred dollars, to be re
covered and appropriated as hereinafter pro
vided and directed ; and wherever the refi
dent physician, or confuting physician, as
Uhecafe maybe, <hall direst any person or
persons, or any goods, wares or merchandize
to be landed at the health-office, or any ship
or vessel to be detained opposite thereto, and
and there to be fmoaked, cleansed and puri
fied, the captain of the ship or vessel (hall in
all refpetts conform to such dirtftions,
(hall at the proper cost and charge of his em
ployers carry the fame into effect within such
reasonable time as the resident physician, or
confultiug physician, as the cafe may be, (hall
allow and prescribe; and if any m.ftcr or
captain (hall refufe or neglcft: to conform to
thefefaid directions, and to carry the fame
into effect as aforefaid, according to the ref
peftive objects thereof, he (hall forfeit and
pay the sum of five hundred dollars for e>ch
and every offence, to be recovered and appro
priated as is hereinafter provide d and d rest
ed.
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Houses or Public
Offices,
Two brick 3 story Houses,
HAVING 6100 ms in each,with fire places
beside garrets,fituate on the south weflerlv fide
of Dock ftrect, between Pear and Walnut
ilreets. Enquire of
BENJAMIN IV. MORRIS.
i 7.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogiheads and in c,fr s of 5 o boulcs each.
also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine :
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hojy (heads and quarter ca(ks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111, South Front llreet.
J an « 2 » *794- dtf
rHE office of tlie Proficient and Direft l)t ,
of the Insurance Company of Noi-Trf
America, is removed t« No. 107 Soufh
Front It leer, being rlie foutli '.all cu'ner y?
Fi ont and Walnut Itree:-.
The Public are cautioned ta
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Tivmj
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
several of <wbich have appeared in circulation
within a few days frajl; they are a good v .
neral imitation of the genuine BifJj, but r.iuy
l/e diflinguifhed by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bill, of the Bank as the
United States.
ALL that Have appeared t'hc fetter P»
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker an j
whiter and it fakes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. Hi ihe word Company is
than the M. and other letters of thdt word
so that a line extended from the top of ijn- o'
to touch the (op of the M' con.
(iderably above the range of the whole word
In the word United the letters Jr e narrow!'
erand cloi'er together than the reft of tie hill
The i and fin the word pronii/e a> e not
parallel, the/inclining much more forward
than the
The engraving is badiy cxecoied.the ft.okrs
of all the Letueis aie stronger and the rfevi e
111 the margin pai ticulany ismuch coa.ltr and
appears darker lhao in ihe true bills. Some
ot the cSnnt erf cits b. ar da:e in | 791—Where
as the Bank vrasnot its operatiot, till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were iflued in
ihat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appealed have the letter
B: tor their alphabetical mark.
They are primed on a pn?er nearly similar
to that of the counterfeit Five Dollai .Notts
above described ; the engraving- is better exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap.
pearatfee »| the genuine bills.
The firte ruled lines throngh the word Trxcn*
t\ y in the body o! the bill, are in number th r
teei) in the genuine b llss and but twelve in
the Counterfeits. g
The word Company is much like the fame"
Word in tue Five Qollar si lis «s dcTci ibed a
bove, tlie o being lels than the ot, and uthers
folio w ing.
There is no stroke to the / in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the ftrok'e is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to ti»e
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, hut are (o cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and the/ go
ing below them.
The } Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written w'itn lafsb-black and
oil, and dittos ir'om oiher inks u(cd ir.
printing the pills and the cafliiei's lignattH'?.
It is iuppoied tiu le forgeries were committed
itHomeoithe Southern •States, as all the ctiut.-
terfcits thai have appeared, have come Irons
thence/and two perPous have been apprehend
ed in Virginia, on fiHpicton of being the author
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
wili be patd to any Perlon or Pcrfmis who lha:I
discover and prosecute to conviction the fevcral
offenders of the following defWiptions or any
of them, viz.
The peifon or p< rfons, who manufa&ured
the paper on whicn the Hills are printed.
The peifon or per lons, who engraved the
plates.
1 he printer or printers, of the bills.
Every pcrfon who ha* «#ed as a pr ncipal in
any other way, mi the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
Philadelphia, March 28, j794
dpril 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the Uniied Stares have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL*
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
ter B.
They may be diftinguilhed from the genu
ine following; MARKS .* •
The paper of* the counterfeits is of a more
tend *r texture and glofley fur face than the
genuine, and there islio water mark in the in.
Tine letter C. in the word Calhier, in the
true bills is strongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
ltroke, evidently in an unjjnilhed state. The
letter a in the word demand, is badly lormed
and the whole word ill done, and there is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine hills.
J He marginal device, is much darker in
tfce falie, than in the genuine bills owing to
the (hade strokes being coai/er, much nearer
together, and confequeotly much more nu
merous. This difference ft'ikes the eye atfirft
view. . - i
The fame reward of - ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will be paid for apprehending &
pfofecuting r«> conviction the several above
de(bribed Offenders in lefpedl to this, as to
the Jaft described bills.
tuth&stf
THOMAS WILLING, PicWeot
ol the B;nk Unitrd States.
JOHN NIXON, Pffirttni of the
JhiariJc ot North America,
By order of the Committees of the Ref
pc&ive Hoj«ds.
PHILADELPHIA
J'riktsd by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
f"*
South Fourth-Street.
w
ijn.
»
.*
>-*•-■ -
«
v :