«f tin $tntfe& States
EVENING ADVERTISE
[No. 6 7 of Vol. V.]
Wanted to Charter,
lit A VESSEL
Of 1000 Barrels burthen.
Enquire of
JOHN CRAIC.
FH..i 4,1794. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
The Ship
M, ANDROMACHE,
(aa American bottom)
'John Mean-, M'titer ;
Is a ilout good wfTel, about two years old,
burthen 2"!2 tons, has nuly made three voy
ages, and may be sent to lea at a fraa'.l tx
pcn.-c. Site .1 uv be seen at V itieVftreet wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
Wharton Sis Lewis.
FcK 12, 1794* dti
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Stile at his Store y No. 25, Dock-
Street :—
A fcwßil'Jof Ri.fiu Shectm:*..
B-rceiona Handkerrhu ts 'n B< xes ?
A bile of low-p'trrd tojlon H mdketchie's,
A Quantity ©f Souchong Tea, Hyson aud
ToAkiv, diru..
HoMa-nd <••'»« in Cafe*,
A Quantity ot
Vl'uh a Variety oi uihei Good*.
fab. *0.
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON live 31ft of lad mon'h, the fubfciib r ad-
a letter ia M»fT'S. Thomas I'eaifdll
I? Son y merchants »n New-York, and u.cloi- a
thi-reu. • hank n<>te, No. 445-, lor twer.tv dol
bra ; one<l»tto, No. 151, lot thirty dolt'at* ;
and »«>e ditto, ICi». 3,866, Tor twenty dollar*.
—He al Jo ad drifted a letter to Mr. Cittat
SaUflnjlail, nierefnmr in New-YorU, incloling a
banTi bill, No. 148, for fif-y dollars, indoifed
on the back thereof in theft words—'• Par the
v ,1 hi** to iCI . Gilbert Saltorjiali—-then. Hurt;n ; :~
(on '• He <»Ho ad drifted a lettei to Mclfrs.
£* b'ardel/y ifteicli*nts hi N<w-Yo<k, -and mcto
fed a b:«nk b1 fin '< n dollars, and a draft in fa
voi of laid White £3 Wardell, which ! t ers we>e
pUt in the Poll-Office on fa d 31ft January, to
be foiwa'Otd to New-York : Bnt bv letters re
ct'vcd f|<>m the Geiuitnu-n to whom they w re
Severally addreftcd, th money was lobbtd
from cadi letter before delivoy.
Yh'c public are requeued 10 endeavor a de
letion of the Villains wH6 camii»i"ea the above
lobbtrV. THe bill indorsed, I thti k. wasaY<ik
bdiik bill, and (ome others, oik* or itimc was
ot the Uni.ed States baiik, re am Led at Philadel
phia. Any person difcovrrmg rhc Thief, and
returning the Money, (hall be entitled to filly
dol'fcrs VcwHrd.
E«EN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, 14' h. Kb. 1 '" , 4- 3 " :;,v,
Philosophical Ledtures, 1
By J. M. R A Y.
FR. O M Edinburgh, lately I'rom Paris,
teacher of Hebrew, fee. languages, au
thor of Comprehensive View oi Philosophical,
Political, ami Theological Systems, from ihe
creation of the world to the prclent time, fee.
He will begin this f'ecoi.d course oi' Letfuie»
Fehru ry 27th, at 6 o'clock in the evening, in
the Friends' gi ammar fchoo! room, Ifrcet,
and will finifh it in a month.—The idea ot it
was luggtlled by I'onfc Ladies for the improve
litent of the litx—but it is calculated f.« bth
fefcea (nf inv age above childhood] whereby
they will dit'cover a new world in natuie,
concealed from others as a fine country is
from travellers in the nigh', and as the light,
a*d the appearance of natnie is from the
blind; this will be a new Iccne of enjoyment
and delight, as that of leelng is to one born
blind, and will teach them to acquire the pro
per ul'e of their faculties, as a child does that
of I lis ji.-llbs by learning to walk:—this will
eleva'e them to a Philosophical region of fub
-1 mr enjoyments and rational pieafures, as
much superior to the pieafures and amuse.
iiients of others as a man is to a child in fta.
tu'e, and which will endure the shock of ad
vcrfity, and not forfake them like others, in
affliftiou and old age ; as the life and end of
all real knowledge is practice and happinels,
tilts cowrie will lend to promote personal hap
piness, and fit for the duties of focicty, one
part of it will be on tin- preservation of health
or bodv and !e enity of mind, without which
riches can afford noenjoyment: thole whoob
fcrvi-d the author's regimen,efcaped the Pefli-
Icntial d fcafe m the houfc were others died
. f it. To be<nii with an introductory Lec
ture ort the great benefits of Pbilbfophy to
human life.
Feb. 19.
A RFCOMPENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
T N la 11 Iv « fTi i««t l»v tlic l'rt ft 'fill and Dite< -
A iitr 1.-tnk "! (it l onnl Si<4'r>, in anv
o< - ilon who 'h.i!], en or be ore 'lie fiill <>'
Mt»v ««< x', p'o nee "• them luc h .i i/Un jnd t !c
---va:mri o! u linking Hou'i , ,i« (I<.■!! be .ippiovi-d
<>f l>v ilirm—A i'lh ii, mi h i d om<* Irntii la
d- inert ; '1 in * h'-'K* i linking i> if hi
and C'>nii;ioi ; -oiis w ill m much l|M>e .n.M.mj u.
a< ih" Ij/c nt the p i»H wll jili*v?.
I fit lot cil w h ill (hi 1 inl«!'tl£> is In be ' Ifft
t'o, ■> U ii.iicl on ilk v»ut hfl" <«t Tin' il-It'eet,
ii' i v.*rn» OiHmiu <ind Wiit..ui-ll: t tis tn J'Sila
(J'-lp'iM; ,tnd i'S •' I juc ii<> ic* • l oil
Thii<•', m H .ibom i ro'Vri wtrtw^rH.
THOMAS WILLING, Prrfuimt
e >p 3W
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, dedvding 15 per Cent, from
the P tines—this Lottery confjis of
38,060 Tickets, in 'which there are
1 J..539 Prizes arul 23,461 Blanks,
Icing about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
Direflorsof thfe Society for eflab-ifhing
X Ufef.nl Mj-, ufaftures, having refotved to
erefct LOTTERIES tor taifin; One Hundred
Thousand Dol lak s, agreeanlv to an Ast of
the Lfg'fl ture 01 theSi.te of New- let fev. have
appom'fd the following perl -lis 10 fuprriutrnd
and direct \b<- drawing ol the fame, viz. Nicho
las I.o'w, Rnius K ; ng, Herman Le Roy, James
Wa-fon, Richavd "Hartifon, A'bijah Hammond,
and Cornelius R v, of the city ot New Yo.k—
Willing, Jolcph Ball, Matthew M/Con
nel and Andrew ot the ci'v of Phtla
deVnliia —fit.- I-X\". I cPCV R ; chaid Howell, £fq.
hltas B i dinot, Genet a'. fcbas Dayton, Jauus
Pat krr. John Bayard, D I.wis Donham,
Samut'l W, Stockton. Jolhua M.Wallace, Joseph
Bloomfield, and Eli (ha Boudm t, of N< w- Jer
sey, who nftVt the following Scheme ct a Loi
ter'., and pW-dge themfe.ve* to the public, that
1 hev will take every affurapce and precaution in
their powet to have the Monies paid by the
Minuets, from tiree to time, as received, into
th* Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for thepurpofeof paving Pnz s, which
(hall be immediately difctiarged by a ehcck.
upon one of the Banks.
3 av6w
SCHEME:
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 20,000
l
2
5
lO
90
ICO
1 coo
nf>oo
fICOO
8100
1 4»53$ P r 'zrs. 262,000
23,461 Blanks. Fir ft drawn number, 2,000
Laftdrawn number, 2,000
38,000 Ticket's at 7 Dollars each is 266.000
The drawing will commence, under the in
fptfftion of a Committee of the Superintendants,
as soon as the Tickets arc fold,ot which timely
noiice will be given.
The Superintendants have appointed John N.
Gumming, of Newark, Jacob R. Hardenberg,
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Tienton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample security lor discharging the
trust reposed in them.
In Older to secure the pun&ual payment
of the Prizes, the Superintendants of the Lottery
have directed that the Managers lhalleach enter
into bonds ia 40,006 dollars, w»th four fufficieni
fccuriiies, topeiforin their initiudtions, the sub
stance of which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
shall receive the sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he (hall immdiatcly place the lame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit of the Governor of the Society, ?nd such
of the Superintendants as live in the city where
rhe monies are placed, to reniain there until the
Lottery is drawn, for the payment of the Prizes.
11. The Managers to take fulficient fecuriiy
for any Tickets they may trull, otherwise to be
refponuble for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid mio the Bank, ab
iba&s of which (hall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society*
Paierfon, Javu.iry l, 1794.
On application to etihei of the above gentle,
men, information will be given where tickets
m<v be hid.
February 24.
Cj* This Gazette fhalt be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement —The Subscription
encreofes daily—Jdvert'fing Favors are
folicited —Theje conjiitute an effmtial Item
in diminijhwg the Debit fide of the Account.
AND
Friday, February 28, 1794-
10,000
10.000
10.000
,5,000
10.000
2,0C0
10,000
1,000
5 CO
i'oo
10,000
10,000
15,000
5°
to
'5
20,000
30,000
36,000
81,000
tawlf.
By the President of the United States of
America,
A Proclamation.
WHEREAS by information given
upon oath, it appeal's that in the
night time of the twenty second day of
November, a number of armed men hav
ing their faces blackened and being other
wile disguised, violently broke open and
entered the dwelling house of Benjamin
Wells colleftorof the revenue arifingfrom
spirits distilled within the United States,
in and for the counties of Weftmoreland
and Fayette in the dirt rift of Pennsylva
nia, and by allaulting the said colle&or
and putting him in fear and danger of his
life, in his dwelling house aforefa:d, in the
said county of Fayette did compel him to
deliver up to them his commiiiiun for col
lecting the said revenue, together with
the books kept by him in the execution
of his said duty, and did threaten to do
further violence to the said colle&or, if he
did not (hortly thereafter publicly renounce
the further execution of his said office :
And whereas several of the perpetra
tors of the laid offence are still unknown,
and the fafety and good order of society
require that such daring offenders should
be discovered and brought to justice so
that infractions of the law may be prevent
ed, obedience to them secured, and officers
proteited in the due execution of the trulls
reposed in them, therefore I have thought
proper to offer and hereby do offer a re
ward of TWO HUNDRED DOL
LARS for each of the said offenders that
lhall be discovered and brought to justice
for the said offence, to be paid to the per
son or persons who (hall firft discover and
give information of the said offenders to
any judge, justice of the peace, or other
magistrate.
And I do hereby ftri&ly charge and
enjoin all officers and minilters of justice
according as their refpeftive duties may
require, to life their best endeavors to
cause the said offenders to be discovered
apprehended and secured, so that they
may be speedily brought to trial for the
offence aforefaid.
In Testimony whereof I have
/ . \caufed the seal of the United
J States of America to be affixed
to these presents, and signed the
fame with my hand. Done at
the city of Philadelphia the 24th
day of February one thousand
seven hundred and ninety four,
and of the Independence of the
United States of America, the
eighteenth.
Go. WASHINGTON.
By the President
Edm : Randolph.
CONGRESS
Houfc of Rcprcfcntativcs.
January 28.
In committee of the whole on Mr. Mudifon's
resolutions.
SPEECH of MR. MURRAY.
( Concluded.)
In no country that Mr. Murray recol
le&ed, did the history of the carrying
trade show us a people overflowing with
raw materials and natural wealth, inhabit
ing a new, extenlive, fertile foil, who be
came great carriers.
If we examine the causes that made Ve
nice and Genoa and other free states of
Italy, the carriers for the Weft of Europe,
through the Straits of Gibraltar, to all
the states that were rich enough to pur
chase, or refined enough to enjoy the lux
uries of Alia and the Mediterranean, we
find them, small; with no extent of ferti
lity or foil ; and with a population over
flowing, and difproportioned to the land
labor or its produce. The Hanfe-Towns,
the Dutch and the Englilh, with a few
fliades of difference, were similarly situa
ted when they became the successors to
these republics in the carrying tnide.
I Whole No. 525.]
Had all of them abounded in those bulky
raw materials which arise from a foil like
ours ; with spare population, with a great
disparity between labor and its objects,
they never would have been the great car
rying nations they were. We (hould have
seen something like that equipoise of em
ployment which the genius of our own
country leads to ; and agriculture at lead
disputing the pre-eminence with navigati
on, which in our country, is but her hand
maid.
We have, indeed seen similar habits and
systems. The insular position of Great-
Britain, her neighborhood and hostile ri
vallhip with the Dutch, who preceded her
in arts and in navigation, pointed out the
navigation ast to the Parliament, in 16 J I,
as an inllrument of resentment—and it
seemed naturally to arise from her national
qualities.
But it is observable and important in
considering the cause which rendered that
ast advifeable, that notwithstanding her
insular situation, and her fulnefs of inha
bitants, there was wanting for half a cen
tury, that co-operation of causes, which
occurred to give it all the efficacy it has
been attended with since.
The proportion of Britilh and foreign
shipping was but little in favor of England,
till eleven years after the peace of Rvf
wick, at which period, in 1697, the Bri
tish tonnage was 144,000, and the fo
reign tonnage an 100,000. The causes
that then began forcibly to operate in fa
vor of the British, eleven years after, when
the Britilh. tonnage was 240,000, and fo
reign but 45,000, were as irrefiitible as
to that effect, as they are remote, and for
tunately so, from this country. A union
with Scotland had taken place, and in
creased her exports ; the manufactures of
the country had received great compara
tive improvements; the American filhe
ries began to improve ; —Jamaica, which
is immensely important to her, and a
kingdom in itfelf, became a considerable
object ; but above all, these independent
states, who were then very growing colo
nies, became felt in the scale of national
interest, and poured their bulky materials
into her lap. Without a colonial system,
she would not have felt the benefit of her
navigation act.
With a colonial system, flie, and other
countries pofleffed of colonics, have in
ducements and employment for a dispro
portion of navigation that this country is
without, and needs not in her present
progressive state of all things. And yet
the gentleman's system looks to a naviga
tion ast, at a time, when all is convulsion
without—and where none, or very few of
the causes that have led to such a scheme
in other countries, are visible in our in
ternal affairs. For if we look into our
local situation, we find a mod extensive
and fertile country sparingly inhabited,
and abounding in natural wealth. If we
look at the Englilh, we find contracted
territory, redundancy of population, few
or no raw materials, and scarcity of the
necessaries of life, with large capitals, and
the greatest exertion of ingenuity in ma
nufactures.
Importation of manufa&u l es has been
our praflice, and seems, under the pre
sent degree protc&ion given to those
which are adapted to our immediate at
tempts to be our interelt. We import no
raw matei ials scarcely, nor grain nor ne
ceflaries. They on the contrary, import
almoil eveiy thing, and manufadlure eve
ry thing. In (hort, our situation is com
pletely a contrail to theirs, and it is a con
trail infinitely to our credit and comfort.
It had led his mind to a full conviction,
that all our powers would gradually ame
liorate together, and if left, as they have
hitherto been, more to the exertions of
an enterprizing spirit and feeedom, than
rigidly directed by speculation and theory
they would in the fulnefs and feafonable
nefs of time, accomplilh the extent and
grandeur of design which nature seems i»
R.Kave defined at the social and political
chjratt.-rof this country.
He *"_» willing therefor to trust as
mvi :h as pnlESlc to the operation us
cauics wiiitli, whatever they itverr, had
hitfterto, under a fortunate ncgle&, pro
duced and a profperutis train of
th. ij*, which Jpcrtrap* hnnrua contrivance
and fpecufetiw wifdojn haJ never attained
for us. Had they wxxldicd more than
they li ne, th~v might, from the pernici
ous fiaive of i'aura'.ian, applied to a scene
wiitch had r.ct its like upon the globe, have
thwarted that course of tilings, which na
tvi; pomredout, ari.l which has been fuc
de&fuiiy puriueJ. He could notMterefore
fcc( the force of a fyflem hat certainly
ira'int to tamjiei with a condition in which,
« very few things excepted, he felt fatis
fied and grateful. He had dwelt the
longest on the fitneft of ast to
the pe.ent circumllances of this country,
as m, 11 of the argmnents of thole from
v.h.im he differed in opinion, were drawn
from the propriety of adopting something
extremely like one.
But even taking it for granted, which
cannot be admitted, that these relocations
afford on general principles, a well found
ed hope <if relief from commercial and na
vigation rcftraints, h- hid nohefitation in
Ci; «'i j, that the present it the very word
time to try the folidityof the policy It
Was bad, as it related to the chance of i>
war :—ami there was reason to fear tint
no nation uculii at this moment, hold out
preat lommeicial temptations, except as
z coiiinon of joining in the war.
It was bad, as it related to a commer
ce' conteil witii other commercial nations;
for where was tile nation on whom we
could rely under such a derangement of
our trade, as this fvftem defiens ?
An alte.ation so great, in navigation,
I ''bits, employment of capital, and all
foits of commercial views, had been more
rcafoiiible and more pra&icable, if a clear
ceflily for such facrifices could be (hewn;
cr if, in y riding to the force of a juflly
exrittd refmtment against the British for
infill ts offered to our flag, the gentleman
hid given us reason to believe, that the
foiirces of negociation had been firft ex
luuftfd; h'it there still remains a hope,
that negotiation and reflection might re
medy evils, which neither had beea able
to pi event
At all events, the meditated change in
volved interefo to o*)r induftrv, not to be
hazarded 011 mere commercial theory, un
supported by the very last iK'ccflity. It
ins to be expected that any man who
lhou'.d m ike an attempt so serious as the
prefeiit, wojlid have come forward with a
lt.itrrnrnt of advantages to be derived from
the change, so great and so certain, as to
warrant some hazard in the experiment.—
'J hat where he meant to charge the llream
of ccmmc.ce and indnftrv from its piefent
bed, and exclude fupplics of manufac
ture! from one country, he would have
pointed out another channel for its cur
rent, and have told us precisely, the very
n ition fiom whose ports the new supplies
of manufa&ures were to be substituted,
ar.d on what tei ms.
The gentleman who meditated this
thorough change, ought to hive had at
least the outline, of frefh treaties in his
hand, for the old were worth nothing—
he might thus have (hewn us the only
ground of expectation that a nation ought
to calculate on—a view of the interests
of Inch nation with which an accommo
dation of our own might he moulded into
treaty. But no such thing was either
conceived or done—indeed it was imprac
ticable at the present time, and his mea
sures ought to have waited for a proper
time, had they been in other refpe&s a
daptcd to our policy and interests.
Hut even allowing times, and the fet
tled Hate of things abroad to have been
at this moment, such, as to permit this
meafuiement of the sober interests of all,
it would not be useless to enquire (hortly
into the probable ground of treating, fup
poling a treaty for instance with France
to be undertaken in the spirit of those re
foliitibns. He jrould not indulge any of
th;ife romantic expectations which some
fecm to place in the affection of that, or
any other nation on earth : He would
look lieadily at ber inlerejls, in order to
farm r.n opinion of •what Jhe would do—
ami he would ineafuie her interests by her
own fcaW, the opinions (he had ever en
tertained since Ihe became a great maritime
power. Ever Dnce the days of Colbert,
France ha» looked on her Weft-Indie* as
the support of her maritime greatness.—
A jesloufy, equal to *bat of any other
country, had always appeared is her co
lonial fyltem—and a fpirh of monopoly,
which her intereiU, as a maritime power
to i\ie the term, feeined to mlpire.
The republic, by their taavigation ast,
fsem determined to adhere to the colonial
fyltem ; or if they at all relax, it is but
» temporary yielding to transient neciffi
tv rather than a principle of change, intro
duced by either a revolution ot govern
ment,or real and laft'.ng alterations of their
intcrelU. Their interests would be the
fame now as heretofore, and that they
meant to have a powerful marine wa» evi
dent from their navigation act.
He did not believe they would let us
into their Weft India trade freely, except
under circumitances like the prei'ent,
which operated on all alike. Thtv never
did permit a free export fron their iilaads
hut to the mother country, and thence
circuitoufly to others ; by thei'e means,
they were secure both of the carriage and
a cheap supply. Were a treaty now of
fered, giving a free trade to thole islands,
we would think it hazardous to discrimi
nate in their favor on that account. We
fhoiild be suspicious of an offer that flood
on a facrifice of their own interests, and
would not calculate on the permanency of
provilions, which the neceflities of war
and disorder produced, but which never
would long survive those neceflities, which
peace would remove. But there was no
such ofler; nor was now the time to digest
such a business as a treaty, if this were
an offer really made,
He would not then fancifully indulge
himfelf or his conflituents in hopes which
a view of the interests of France ftiowed
him to be fallacious, and he would not in
so serious a question suppose that they,
more than we, would ad steadily on any
other principle than intercjl,—it was the
only immortal principle in the intercourse
of nations ; it may vary its lhape and mo
dification, but never its nature—and it is
the molt ufeful as it contains a perpetual
ilunulus to honest emulation.
Had a detail been entered into by gen
tlemen on the other fide oi those provi
sions which we (hould rightfully expert of
any power, in whose favor discrimination
was intended, our judgements would have
had some employment on tixedand certain
objects ; we might from a correct view of
the benefits and temptation prefented,have
ellimatcd with some precision, though not
with perfeit accuracy, the value of that
gain which such a commutation proinifed;
but at present we were in the dark and
forefaw nothing with certainty — com
merce was to be let loose to be blown to
any quarter of the world, but its certain
direction was not to be counted upon and
could not be forefeen.
It was impofCble he observed to calcu
late the extent of the good and tile evil
but we were certain that there was not a
nation in the world ready and prepared at
present either to receive our advances, or
to supply us with manufactures if these re
solutions succeed. The only country to
which we could look as a substitute to the
British market is at present in a (late so
convulsed and in such a paroxysm of affairs
that from thence we had nothing to ex
pe£t, nor did be think that a treaty of
which he had heard some intimation with
that country, of justice and reciprocity
would suit the United States. Mr. Mur
ray much questioned whether any treaty
with the powers of Europe on perfect re
ciprocity, for instance with mutual duties
of, fay, five per cent, on imports would
suit our situation. Such a one would suit
those nations only in which manufattures
had obtained considerable perfection, but
would be the ruin of our infant manufac
tures which we must and ought oecafional
ly to protest, by duties varied according
to their progreflion and the probability of
the supply from them proving adequate
to our demands.
The effe&s of these resolutions on our
internal affairs immediately, would prove
that they were pernicious and a real tax
without a well founded reason. Tliey
would immediately be perceived in a di
minution of our revenue, in their .opera
tion on the value and price of goods, and
in the redu&ion of the value of our pro
duce and raw materials. The last would
be affe&ed from the discouragement of fo
reign {hipping. The firft from the inabi
lity to bring in foreign manufa&ui es, from
which a duty could be raised, because the
line of trade and correspondence being al
tered, it was impcflible to fay when cr
where the importing merchant woujd be
able to form new connexions abroad, which
were not things of a day or a year, but
required much time and mutual confidence
to mature.
The value of goodi would immediately
rife, and the merchant every where, actu
ated by the fame principle, interefi, which
ought to guide us here, would benefit by
the monopoly of goods to the injury of
the farmer.
The moment these resolutions pass, said
Mr. Murray, there is not a shop or a (lore
in Philadelphia in which every imported
article will not rife in price, fifteen per cent.
while our own produce will probably fall.
But a gentleman from Virginias( Mr. Ni
cholas) wishes to fee retrenchment; he
confeiTed, he saw no rcafon for violent felf
denial. There was no society he belie
ved in the world that could so well afford
to live well, and taite of every rational
and refined enjoyment as the citizens of
this free and happy country. The uni
versal prosperity which this very com
mcrce which is designed to be dellroyed,
diflufes throughout America, jultifies en
joyment. Very natural would it be for
the farmer to enquire the causes of this
sudden rife in the price against him. He
would be told that the British had insult
ed our flag and therefore our system of
felf-denial. Could it be answered that we
had exhausted all the gentle means of ne
gociation, or could any man lay his fin
ger on any country, i.i a map, and fay
we have a certainty that from this conn
tty we shall not only have supplies of
goods, but sure and high prices for our
country produce. This could not be said.
Where there such a country now prepar
ed and ready to fubflitute for our present
connexions, he said he would feel more
juftificd in voting for this change, for he
like every other American, had severely
felt the indignities offered to our flag, and
pods, by the British.
But said Mr. Murray it has been more
than intimated, even in this house that our
country had pursued a pusillanimous con
duct and stood in a humiliating point of
view—He denied it. No country on
earth stood, he believed in a more exalted
ftttion among the nations nor better sup
ported the character of a spirited people.
Could any nation be chargcd with pusilla
nimity that had declared such a neutrality
a> this country did last spring ? At a time
when all the great and formidable powers
in Europe, combining every engine of
immense force and despotism against the
French, were hovering round her borders
and seemed determined to crush her ; at a
time when (he had not one ally on earth,
and no nation received her ministers, the
United States dared to maintain a treaty,
that looked the proudest nations in the
face—They dared to be just, and there
was a magnanimity in venturing so far in
such times, and on so hazardous stipula
tions, that not only rescued them from e
very charge of humiliation, but in his o
pinion, added to the glory of the country
—No, this country was not humbled—
Like a young man of virtuous mind, and
of fortitude, just setting out into life and
business, (he comports herfelf among the
nations with dignified reserve, with amia
ble and innocent manners ; Ihe complies
with her engagements though imminent
dangerovcrhang the performance & brave
ly trusts the consequences to Providence.'
Mr. Murray concluded with observing
that the state of the debate presented no
temptation to discussion as all the points of
relative privileges and reftriftions and the
items of trade had been ably and often
itated. He had concluded that as our
trade does not at present (putting the dis
turbances of war out of the qtieftion) fuf
fcr from many reftri&ions which, when
unacquainted with the fubje<3,he thought
did exist—as some of the existing restric
tions against us belonged to systems, over
which we had no certain controul, and
which it did not suit us to imitate ftriftly;
as the resolutions contemplated a change
without affording a fubllitute in any de
gree, much less to more advantage ; and
as negociation was not yet at an end,from
which he hoped for some redress; as peace
•was his very firjl oljtd, and he believed
I bat of his conjiituents, and asthofe resolu
tions might go to disturb it, and did not
appear to him supported by a certainty of
advantage, though followed, by great
present and certain mifchiefs, he should
vote against them.
(Debate to be continued.)
WINDHAM, (Con.) Feb. 8.
Departed this life at Pomfret, 29th ult.
Doctor Albigekce Wjido, in the44th
year of his age.
NEW THEATRE.
This evening, Feb. 28,
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, called the
JEALOUS WIFE.
Oakly,
Major Oakly, Mr. Whitlock.
Charles, Mr. Moreton.
Ruflett, Mr. Wignell.
Sir Harry Beagle, Mr. Chalmen.
Lord Trinket, Mr. Finch.
Captain O'Cully, Mr. Bates.
William, Mr. Darley,jun.
John, Mr. Warrell.
Tom, Mr. Francis.
Lady Freelove's Servant, Matter Warrell.
Mrs. Oakly, Mrs. Whitlock.
Lady Freelove, Mrs. Shaw.
Harriet, Mrs. Francis.
Toilet, Mrs. Rowfon.
Chambermaid, Miss Willems.
At the end of the Comedy, a new Comic
DANCE, composed by Mr. Francis,
called
The Scheming Clown,
Or, the Sport/man Deceived.
By Mr. Francis, Mr. Darley, jun. and
Mrs. De Marque.
After which, a COMEDY, in 2 A<3s,
called
The L I A R.
Old Wilding, Mr. Whitlock.
Young Wilding Mr. Chalmers.
Sir James Elliot Mr. Cleveland.
Papillion Mr. Finch.
Mils Grantham, Mrs. Francis.
Miss Godfrey, (firft time) Mrs. Cleveland.
Kitty, Mrs. Rowfon.
Boxes, one dollar —Pitt, three quarter!
of a dollar —and Gallery, half a dollar.
*„* As inconvenicncies to the public have
arisen from the Box-book being opened on the
days of performance only, in future attend
ance will be given at the office in the Theatre
every day from ten till one, and on the days
of performance from ten till three o'clock in
the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, it is
rcfpeftfully requested, may be addrefled to
Mr. Franklin, at the Box-Cffice.
The Doors will be opened at 5 o'clock,
and the performances begin at 6 o'clock pre
cisely.
Vt-uat Re/publica.
For SALE,
-""1 The Schooner
NEPTUNE
at Morton's Wharf)
She is a good strong ves
sel, burthen about 500 bar
rels, and fails remarkably
fact. Inventory may be seen on board) or at
the Store of the Subscribers.
Wharton & Lewis.
dtf
Feb. 28, 1794.
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENFIRONS:
Taken from aiftual survey, by A. P. Folic,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS Plan will be engraved on a plate 26
inches square ; and it will contain an ex
act description of all the squares, fttrets and
alleys in the Cilv and I.ib. nies. The lituation
of the several public buildings, luch as the Stale.
H.ufe, City-Hall, Seat of Congress, Churches,
Meeting-Houses, Hospital, Librarv and Semina
ries of Leaminj;-of the several Banks, and of
the Federal and Stale Offices, will be ascertained.
The parts which arc built on will be distinguish
ed from those that are not. The cnurl'es of the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended to conned the
navigation of these two waters, as lies within
the con.pass of the draught, will be accurately
delineated. It will alio be ornamented by a
view of the (hipping in the hatbor, and an ele
vation of Cofgrefi-Hall, and of thcotber public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In (Viorl, nothing will be omitted 10 render this
ufcfu 1 and dcfiiable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power :
and it (bill be complrated with the greatcft
piffihle dispatch, as soon as the generons encou
ragement ol lubfcnbeis Ilia 11 insure to the auihur
such a sum as will be lufiicicnt to dc! ray ex-
pencrs.
A Pamphlet will he delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical I.ft r.f
the Suhfcriher* nairre*, and information con
cerning Ihe police, population and prefcnt Dace
ol the city.
The price to (ViMcriber, w j|| be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at the lime ol delet
ing the Plans.
Subrcripticos will be gratefully received at
the ptitu/ioal Bo«k'>l>erj iu this city—and the
original Draft may be fceo at B.'Da vim',
No. 68, M.'k't-flrrrt, al any time outil it {hall
be m't inro tfa c bua, of the Engraver.
ffli as It °
Mr. Fennell.UNITED STATES.
NEW-YORK, February 2J,
Copy of a letter from a merchant in
Guernsey, to a refpe&able mercantile
house in this city, dated J in. 8, 1794.
" The only authentic news in this part
of the world is, the RECAPTURE of
TOULON, by the French Republicans,
and their success in every quarter, particu
larly against the army of Wurmfer on the
Rhine, which they obliged to retreat from
their redoubts at Hageneau on the 22d
December, and againlt the Royaliftj, who
had crofTed the Loire from La Vendee in
great numbers, and who seem to be near
ly annihilated.
" These particular are certain, and
may prove interesting (hould the Rebecca
have a (hort paflage."
We learn from Capt. Brown, of the
Rebecca, that having fallen in with a
squadron of French ships of war in the
Channel, he was obliged to go on board
the Admiral's vessel, where every thing
wore the appearance of the greatell mirth
and joy, on account of the above conquest
of wliich they had received certain nitel
ligence before their failing A gentle
man who came paflenger in the Rebecca,
farther informs, that he saw a London
paper in Gnernfey of the jth January,
which announced the retaking of Toulon ;
and that Lord Moira had returned to
England to discharge his troop 6, which
had been so long detained on board the
ships in order to form their intended junc
tion with the French rebels, as to cause
sickness and mortality to make dreadful
ravage amongfl; them.
February 26,
Monday arrived the {hip Charleston,
Captain Sheffield, from Charleston. We
have been favored with the following par
ticulars from a gentleman who came pas
senger in her.—That on the evening pre
vious to failing from that port, accounts
were received from St. Augustine, which
state, that a plot had been discover
ed, which ptemeditated the giving up of
that place to the French ; the Lieutenant
Governor of St. Johns' River, Mr. M'ln
tofh, and a number of other chara&ers,
were taken up and sent to the Havannah
in irons, commiflions from Mr. Genet be
ing found in their pofTeflion. The troops
on the river St. Mary's were drawn off to
the river St. John's, and the whole of the
militia underarms.
Copy of a Letter from Dr. Priestly,
to Mr. J. GouGH,at Savannah.
CLAPTON, August 2i, 1793.
Sir,
" I WAS highly gratified by the ac
count yon were lo good as to transmit to
me, of the favorable manner in which the
news of the revolution in France was re
ceived in America, especially as at that
time there were doubts entertained on the
fubjeft. That many viewed it in an un
favorable light with you, I have no doubt,
but that a revolution, in all the eflentials
so nearly resembling your own, should not
be thought a joyful event by the Ameri
cans in general, I could not believe. Your
letter made me quite easy on the fubjeft,
and enabled me to fatisfy my friends.
Since that time there have been more re
volutions, as they may be called, in France;
"all, however, I am willing to think, favor
able to liberty and happiness, tho' at the
time I and all my friends were disposed to
forebode ill, as our particular friends were
the fufferers. The last constitution seems
now to give almoit universal latisfa&ion ;
the infurreftion seems to be nearly fup
prefled, and as to their foreign enemies,
they make light of them. Indeed, they
have only served to rouse and unite them.
" We have been alarmed with the ap
prehensions of a war with America ; but
I hope there will be wisdom on your fide
of the water, tho' little I fear an ours, to
prevent it. Both countries must be ma
terially injured by such an event, and nei
ther of them could be a gainer. This,
indeed, is the cafe with refpeft to all wars,
but more obviously so in this than in mod
others.
" I fend this by my sons, who are go
ing to find a settlement in your country.
All I have (three) will be there, and then
I (hall expett to follow soon. I cannot
give you an idea of the violence with which
every friend of liberty is prosecuted in
this country. Little of the liberty of the
press on political fubje&s is now left, and
the country in general goes heartily with
the court into all their measures ; so that
nothing but general cab
fear is approaching, wall
The fotirce ot all this evil w toi know
ledge in the lower, ai>d a». aot of the
lower, orders of'the people. The French
are wifely providing ast this evil by a
system of public inltru&ion. Here even
Sunday schools beg»n to be reprobated,
as making the common people too know-
With much gratitnde for your commu-
nications,
I am, Sir. yours sincerely
J. PRIESTLEY."
To the Printer of t/je Gazette of the United
States,
If you think the following Extra<sls will help
to fill a column in your paper, and afford
a few minutes entertainment to your rea
ders, you are requested to pubiilh them
by A Customer.
EXTRACTS.
Old England is ill at her cafe,
She a furfeit has got I can tell ye;
And the cause of Old England's aifeafc,
Is much pudding and beef in her belly;
To the French for relief she applies,
And her politic doctors allure her,
That they know where her malady lies,
And their grand Panacea fh'all cure her.
" Ah ! what Panacea so grand,
Can my old Constitution repair !'*
Why, dame ! on your head you mult Hand,
And kick up your heels in the air:
Then your health will be equal and good,
Nothing else can from ruin preserve ye ;
For EQUALITY WELL UNDERSTOOD,
Means to turn all the world topsy
TURVY.
French fraternizing the World,
IF our council with scorn is repaid,
We shall bring an old house o'er your ears:
At our bidding to swallow your trade,'
Columbia shall fend privateers.
Tippoo Sultan your fa<sfcors lhall dread,
When back'd by French blades, he shall fix a
Huge price on each Englishman's head,
In Bengal, in Rahar, and Orixa.
We'll nip the Dutch navy in Zealand;
On the demi-de/potic Stadtholder.
Set the Patriots, his guilders to steal, and
The head that looks over his shoulder.
Batavia we next will attack,
And to Ceylon establish our claim :
Fed with spices wafh'd down with arrack,
How fiercely French courage will flame !
Our Sans Culottes none shall escape,
Fleets and armies we'll fit out by dozens;
Expel the Mynheers from the Cape,
And fraternize our Hottentot Cousins.
All Africa thence we'll affright,
Scare lions with morbleus and by-gars.
And to France by degrees re-unite
The department of monkeys and tigers.
Should Spain to the Bourbons prove true,
From the Dons their Muftachios we'll crop j
Spoil Mexico eke and Peru,
And steal all the gold in their Ihop.
Great Walhington next we'll assail,
And command himtofight withallEurope;
And, if in obedience he fail, —
Why—we'lll'end him the axeor a new rope.
Thus around us East, Weft, North and South,
Infurredtion and anarchy fofter,
Sail to H —l with the winds in our mouth,
And old Belzebub fright with our bluster.
Should old Square-toes refine to comply,
We'll appeal to the People infernal;
And, since on Earth 'tis vain more to try,
There 'ftablilh an Union fraternal.
CAPSISUM, CA IRA.
PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 28.
By a Ship arrived at Portsmouth, (N.
II.) the 15th inft. in 41 days from St.
Übes, a confirmation is received of the
Evacuation of Toulon—but that the Com
bined Forces, left a garrison in the citadel
which cannot be taken but by starvation.
This account the American Captain fays
he received from two Britilh officers on
furlough, at St. Übes.
Extract of a letter from a Town in Mas-
fachufetts.
" We have lately formed a new socie
ty in this place, called the Social Fire So
ciety—not a Fire or Democratic Society,
but one to extinguish Fires."
From Corrfsfokdexts.
A correspondent fays, that the present
is the Harvest-Time of the Citizens of
the United States. The produce of our
country was perhaps never higher in fo
reign markets, than at this time. Ac
counts from Hilpaniola fay, that great
profits are to be made on our cargoes :—
A wedge of Soap is worth four dollars—
a pair of Shoes, five dollars. Flour it is
said, is thirty dollars—Beef twenty dol
lars per barrel, at Surinam. What bles
sed politics arethofe which would involve
us in a war, and thus blast, not the prof
pe<Ss merely, but the positive advantages
now enjoyed by the agricultural and other
interetts of this country.
■y u SicK I
il.iM* eves.
Those who feel the true principles of
an American patriot, will at this moment
discover their attachment to the km or and
interejl of their countiy, by promoting
measures calculated to proteift our com
merce against the marauders of all nations
—and tho' the United States cannot per
haps, immediately place themfclves in a si
tuation, to contend with the maritime
ft length of all nat ions, yet they can do
much to protest their commerce, and per
haps completely rid the Atlantic of those
pirates of the Barbary States, who are
dragging our fellow-citizens into the raoft
infernal llavery.
Philadelphia, February 2 Ijl, 1794.
Sir,
From a review of your letter to my pre
decessor, on the 22d day of November,
1793, it appears, that you had not then
received such definitive inftruftions, relat
ive to his communication of the 29th of
May 1792, as would enable you immediate
ly to renew the difcufiion upon the fubjeft
of it.
Suspended as this negociation has been
for so long a time, I have it in charge from
the President of the United States to re
peat the enquiry, whether any inftrudHons
have been yet received by you, for pursu
ing those discussions ? Permit me to hope
for the honor of a reply, at as early a mo
ment, as may be convenient.
I have the honor to be, Sir,
With great rrfpett
Your mod obedient servant.
EDMOND RANDOLPH.
P. S. 1 thank you for the communica
tion of his Britannic Majesty's declaration,
which 1 have just received.
The Minister Plenipotentiary!
of Great Britain. J
True copy from the Records, in the Office
cf the Department of State, 24th February,
1794.
Philadelphia, lift February, 1794.
Sir,
In answer to the enquiry contained in
your letter of this date, I have the honor
of informing you, that 1 have not yet re
ceived the definitive inftruftions that, at I
have before assured you, I expeift to ob
tain, on the fubjeft of the discussion to
which you allude.
I have the honor to be,
With great refpeft, Sir,
Your most obedient
Humble servant,
The Secretary of State.
True copy of the original, on file, in the
Office of the Department of State, Fe
bruary, 1794.
CONGRESS.
House of Reprefentat'tveu
Thursday, Feb. 27.
Two refutations laid on the table yes
terday by Mt. Fitzfimons, were taken up
and referred to the committee of the whole
on Monday next—They are as follow :
Refohed, That provision ought to be
made for paying the interest on the bal
ances which have been placcd on the
books of the Treasury to the credit of cer
tain dates, in consequence of the settle
ment of accounts, between the United
States and individual States.
Rcfolved, That the sums which are
placed to the debit of certain dates in con
lequence of the said fettlcment ought to
be paid by the said States i/> years
bv annual installments.
In committee of the whole on the re
port of a feleft committee on the petition
of Henry Hill, after some discussion of
the fubjeft, the committee repor* ed pro
gress, and had leave to fit again.
Ordered, that 200 copics of two re
ports on this bufniefs, be printed for the
use of the house.
Mr. W. Smith of the fcleft committee
on the Judiciary, brought in a motion
which provides for dispensing with the at
tendance of all the marlhals on the Su
preme Court, and that in lieu thereof the
attendance of the Marshal of the diftricS
only in which the Gourt is held /hall be
fuiiicient, unless the attendance of other
Marilials (hall he fpecudly required by ol
der of the Court.
GEO. TAYLOR, jun,
GEO. HAMMOND.
GEO. TAYLOR, jun.
This motion was referred to the com
mittee of the whole on the Judiciary, ai;<J
being submitted ill the form of a resolu
tion for repealing the fedllon of the law
to which it refers, was agreed to, and re
ported to the house.
It was then voted that the report of the
committee of the whole, refpe<3ing the
Judiciary, (hould be taken intoeonfidera
tion by the house.
This report contains a variety of alte
rations and amendments in the system ; —
these were severally agreed to, and a com
mittee appointed to bring in a bill.
The confiderat ion of the contested elec
tion of Mr. Gallatin has engaged the at
tention of the Senate of the United States
every day this week—the debates have
been public, and so interesting as to at
tract the attention of a crouded audience
the whole time.
This day the difcuflion of the fubjetl
was closed—
A motion in the following words, viz.
" Resolved that Albrrt Gallatin is
duly ele&ed"—being then put, it passed
in the negative—Twelve ayes, Fourteen
NOES.
The expe&ed call of the House of Re
presentatives was this day postponed to a
future occasion.
The fe<siion of the appropriation till
which authorizes the Preiident to antici
pate by loan, the supplies for the services
of Government and which had been ft ruck
out—was this day taken up and unani
mously agreed to by the House.
A report is in circulation that a large
body of men under the command of Gen.
Clarke, were to set off from Kentucky
the firft of March, on an expedition to
the Mifiiffippi.
The bill of Fare designed for this even
ing's entertainment at the New Theatre,
promiles a rich repast to the Company
which may be present. 'she principal
part of the capital performers, agreeably
to the bills, will appear.
At four o'clock to-morrow afternoon,
will be ptiblifiied,
{Price Twenty Cents J
By Mathew Carey,
No. nB, Markets trees,
Love in a Village,
A CCMIC OPERA,
As performed at the New Theatre,
Chefnut-StreeU
Feb. 28*
BOOKS.
A CHOICE COLLECTION,
In the various branches of Literature, im-
ported by the last arrivals from Europe,
for Sale at very reasonable prices, by
James Kennedy,
No. 26, Spruce, between Front (if id Streets,
Among: which are the following ;
CHAMBERS'S Di&'onary of Arts and Sci
ences, 5 Vols. Folio.
Henry's Bible and Commentary, 6 Vols. Folio.
Universal History, 7 Vols. Folio.
Churchill's Collection of Voyagrg, 6 Vols. Folio.
Palladjo's Architecture, bell Edition, 2 Vols.
Folio in one.
Rapin's History of England, with Tindalls con-
linuation, 3 Vols, Folio.
Hume's History of ditto, with Sraollet's ditto
14 Vols. Octavo.
Maltor.'s complete Trealife of Perfpe&ive, 2
Vols, in one.
Bruce's Travels, London Edition, 5 Vols. 4x0..
Clavigero's History of Mexico, 2 do. do.
Robeitfon's H'.ftory of America, 2 do. do.
Maclaurin's Newton's Philosophy,
M'Knighi's Harmony of the Gofpcl, do,
Lowman on the Revelations, do.
Locke on the Epistles, do.
Led wick's Antiquitiesof Ireland, df*.
Whitehurft's Theory of the Earth, do.
Glass's Account o! the Canary 1 Hands, do.
The Annual Register, from us Commencement
to 1791, inciufive, 34 Volt.
Niebuhr's Voyage 10 Arabia. 2 Vols, O&avo.
Bar'ram's Travels thro' the Southern States.
Some of the ve»y latest and best Collections of
Voyages and Travels.
Creviers Lives of the Roman Emperors 10 Vols.
O&avo.
L'Antiquite exp)iqi>6e par B. Mowtlaucon,
Tom. so.
Antiquires d'Efypte par Norden.
Di&ionnairc Hiftoriqut gTi m*
Theatre dc Voltaire cleg, relir. q Tom,
Hilloiie Remain par Rollm, 16 Tom
Ocuvresde Boile3o,rte Moliert, See. wfth many
others equally good. A Catalogue of whichi
may be seen at the place of Sale.
He bat also for Sale,
An cxcfltcnt H~dlry\ Quadrant.
A lew Acrcmstic Pocket Petlpcftive Glaflil.
A Camera Ohfcura.
A capital German Flute, with 6 Keys, and ad
ditional joints.
And a few elegant coloui'd Prims
Feb. 28.
Adjourned^
4«op.JAMES C.EACH,
ESPECTFUI.LY inform# hi* friends and
R
I
he has tecfivid, fi«n» fevetal iWpftiiiMr Gentle
men. lir is induced once more, to embark m iKr
PAKK K I INfc— and would otfer ins (e vice# to
i!! # hrf Crnt!ctr« n,' who can piace confidence
in him ; and h alTuiei those who employ him,
that thr it cni'fidrwce (hall not he ;—
bm u lhal! br h'* constant rndravor, to pay the
141 idi. U aueunon to ihor belt interert. in all ne
gocu'i'tiiii w'ia ! < vt. He has taken th<" Chamber,
in S'ute t o v er Mr. David 1 ownfefid, V\ atrfi
Shop.——Whrre Pl'ltLlC SHOURI-
all k<rins, air boutfh and fold ; ami
v»he'< Co in million tfufinvlii (jf ali kind*, will be
tianf tic-d on trainable lams. II OI'SES and
VESSELS will be conftamU expo fed lot file, on
com if fli i.
Cash paid for S.lcm, Providence, and
Poriliiinuih HI LI $
N B. If tf«v Gentlemen in Philadelphia, or
Ke ' -)>; ♦ ha* any RuJiveTs to Itaijatf at Hoftvn,
in P*»rr Ahe mil be ka[>f>? Utbe f«-
pfoxed 0' ColHintjflv■.
MMfcon, Jan. *4. 1794.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nth day of April next,
at the ho : . fe of John Tbomfon, in Perth-
Ambuy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
THE Lot Cout«ni* cit yen acit», on which i*
an oich&d bt "pia'i.d npoie ?»e<s, - well ol
Cx 'ethn 1, a 'a«>;e !tm e c ftrtn, and a vciv
comniod'''Us ftjhh and oacli-houfr, and a j»'eat
cjvi nlly ol thi ifU t hu\ din* ltopes in the walls
nr nouit, w h rcn wai /uunerly built lor the
refidcnce ' rC vrnnwi o< \w. J.i!« v. The
fmiat io& ot .Irs '.-t i> fr> wfl Jtn'-iwn lor its
hca' iuru ts anjti . fcauitful prolntt of. the Ran °.0
river u» iSuf v> eft >' tba hay, and Siuidjy.-Ho' k to
the f ft. flvat ah' 1 he' ri fc. ipt'ion in uiin cciriry.
The condition# of (ale'will i ;»«e third ot the
pnrrhafe nio.iey to be nud on the fHI day nt |
Maynicxt, when .1 gnoc. and [uflypiair. D> en will j
hr oiven (•» ihr ruirhafer, by Walt** ku- !
THifeFURb, Esq. President of :ie Bo* d of 1
Proi ruto sol tne Ea iter it D'vifn.ii of Ncw-
T, v, *n<l the remaining iwo thi'ds fatifriaso
rily feeured i»i *|uaI annual pavmcus.
By ordf rof thr Hoard.
JAMES PARKER, R-gifUr.
Perth-Ambo\, February 5* i I 79V 2aw'ain
■n
Department.
War
January $Qth 1794.
INFORMATION s h. •». \ iv u to .11 the
mil 11 ary invalids of the United the
turns to wh rh they aicfi 1 !<*d for fix months
of ; her r annual p-«fiom» from the fourth day of
J>cpirtnbci 1793* aik<l which w-ill ( become due
o;i '.c /j t> oj\ <>' w i'U OH*
l | u - ; , ; . i a«i vb V l mn*■hi .1 i.c sos llir Lo.nts
w • 1 ) 11 n1 ic il..its ; tip; tr vi .y, audi 1 the nfual re
£..'*• -rv>.
A ,>o'i'-T'.s cx cu'nrs and aH inirrfti a(<>)s
ttni'i :»f .• :< o.u';ctnu d wuil tcgr-ti ■ vi.-| »ec of
11-.tr t i-fi'.'f offii'f*, anH ,11'. i the time the
luv/.iuis d'«M, whole- pmCum ihe\ 'nay claim,
liy cummana "f ihc Pic'id ik
of the I'nurd Sm-h,
ir ~.f.
Secretary oj ll r ar.
The printers in <hc refpcfctjve ila<es are
topubhfti the ah >ve in their nevvfpa
peis lor the space of two moqihs.
Janua»y 30,
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR S'ALB HY
M.Carey, No. 118 ,Higb-Jlreet,
The' PROM PTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the world.
rpHIS lutle book, is written in a stile altogether
J. novel, and is adapted to all capacities, a*
well as to al! claflVs of people, metchans, inc.
chann s and farmers. Such a reputation has this
woik. 'cquircd, that it has parted (ho three im
picllioits m ihe raiiern states, and many houle
hol' e»sderm :t so ufeiul as :o purchase a copy
ior every adult in theii families.———Pr ic k as.
FehrtMrv 4. dlf
Notice is hereby given,
r tii<2 luhfcuber hits been tluiy ap-
pointed Administratrix on riic- cftate of
his Exceliency John Hancock, Elq. late of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herlelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law dire&s—and all persons in
tereftcd, are defirtd to take notice accord
»
DOROTHY HANCOCK,
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
A • !.e Kftat* 1 of his lite Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, arc requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subscriber, Attorney
t<> the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who Hand indebted to ("aid Estate, are
r« ouefted to fetrle with h-m immediately; as the
A'-\ of Limitation of A&mns, which is to take
place on the firlt day of December next, will
Otherwise render it neeeflary for him to com
mence suits tgavitt them.
Take Notice.
LL pcrfons who have anvdciiiands against
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
TSofton.Nov. 13. 1793-
N. B The Printers throughout this Com-
Di'inwealth, are requeued to :nlert this in their
refpeftive newspapers, and forwas d their ac
counts tor the fame, to J. M
NORRIS-COURT,
Back of the New library, between Chefnut
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that lie continues
cur rymg on the bu(ine!~s of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
t«»r doors or window-lhutters,dont in the moil
elegant iuaiinci, and with dn'patch.
(>'from t ht* omi'.ti v wili be thankfully
t<*« e vf«l. and du.v aitem ed to.
December 30,
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NZ :V Annual llfgitter for 1792
European Magazine tor the firft fix
months of 1 793
Gibbons (let line and fall nf the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester loeiety, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and Ipirit
on chriftianitv
Disney's life of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Mfitiry.a collection of essays
Varipof nfiia's worfcs
Calm obfervet—hy Mackintolh
Ruffisll's ancient and mode 11 Europe
Lipgl-orre's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, I'uperbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural hMfcory
Sangnier and Britfon's voyage
It >ch )n's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
I!F»'s Jerusalem delivered
Sine lie's translation of Buffon
Ber vick's hiitoiy of quadrupeds
Bo&bn abridged
liiftory of birds
Philips'! history of inland navigation
llooptM's rational recreations
liiftory of France, in £ vols.
Curiowtieypf'literature, 3 vol*.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's diiftionarv, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindotlan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key ro polite literature.
] inlay's deTcription of Kentucky
Present Ha te of Nova-Scotia
Pre/ent state of Hudion's Bay
Preston on mafnnry
Lavater on phyfiogpomy, abridged
Zimmerman's Purvey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kilies of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
■it he paid on
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Bsnington on matsriaiifin and immaterialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandun's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description ot China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on pol tical justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's sketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
P».everies of fofitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. &r 11 Id.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
H. KNOX,
d2m
Wall s on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox'k. travels into Denmark,Ruflia,Poland,&c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&ice of mid
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mufcJes
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quinsy's d fpenfiatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the afthnia
Robertfon's treatise oh fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on difeales of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal cconomy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digcftion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armie*
Haller's physiology
Spalanzape's diflertations
London practice of physic
Bell's forgery
<-£Jia;>tal's chemistry.
and Walnut-Streets.
|uft Imported,
A id now opening for h|c, by
MATKEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market jireet,
A L:u fTe ar d Valuable
FOR SALE,
By MATHFW CAREY, No. nB,
Market-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery:
Delimited to exhibit in a new point of view,
its effi&s on motals y indujlry, and the peace of
ociety. Some f»£ts ami calculations are oifered
to prove the labor of freemen to be much more
produflive than that ot Jluves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, m proportion as the
laboring prople enjoy the Iruits of their own
labor ; and hence the pecclTary conclusion, that
ilavcry is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cents.
February 15,
Stock Brokers
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE &r SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, h.gs leave to of
f« r his ierviccsto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their buftnefs, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the uimoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Bolton, or any
other part of the United State;, will be ftri&ly
LEONARD BLEECKER.
attended to.
Philadelphia, F> bruary 13, 1794.
PROPOSALS
For printing by Subfcripiion,
A W ik, to be entitled,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Pennsylvania State Trials.
THE want ol luffiacnt information of the
ttiais of Giea -Britain in the early
rcrods of that government is now lamented :
Hi herto there ha;h been but one d ial in the
state of Pennsylvania on impeachment :—ar.d
heiealfo it ts to be regretted, being neg
le&ed at the time, ihe public are now K ft with
out Sufficient information on the fubjeft of that
trial, it is howevet in this woik designed to res-
can be collected f < om fouiccs
of indilputaple authority, f,- that the lame shall
be preserved fnm oblivi,,,,
Another impeachment and the second is now
depending. An officer is charged by the late
Houfjs of Representative), who haih foi many
years been largely confided in by this fUte,and
hath long b- en at the head of the financial de
partment of the fame, and it imports the citi
zens to know hiscondud, and thecircumftanccs
which may be brought foiward on his trial.
In this work the Editor will be careful to
Hate the fa&s, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers before
the public.—With thi* view—
The following Terms are refpeftfully
fulmitted to t//e Public :
I. The Work lhall be printed in o£tavo, with a
good type, on fine paper, and delivered to
fubfcnbers at the refpe&ive placet where the
subscriptions arc taken in, as soon as the work
shall he compleatcd.
11. As no conjecture can -well be made, as to
ihe length of the present trial, the size of the
volume cannot l>e ascertained at this time
But the price {hail not exceed that of fomeof
tl»e laieft publications in this city.
111. Ii will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental circumllanccs that may occur during
the trial of John Nicholfon, Efquiic,' Comp
troller-General of this commonwealth, with
the arguments of counffl on both fides, together
with the articles of impeachment, and the
picas and replications at large, the fcveral re
solutions of ilietwo blanches of the state Le
gislature, this itnpeachmerit, and
the final decision of the SENATE tefpe&ing
that officer.
To which will be prefixed, as much as can be
colle&cd fiom authentic documents, of the im
peachment, trial,and aequital of ihe late Francis
Hopkinfon. Esquire, Judge of the Court ot
Admnajty for t!>e state of P< nnfylvania, during
the late war, never before pnblifbed.
No money will be tequired before the deli
very of the book.
Subfrnpiions will be received by Francis
Bailey, No. 116, High-street ,• Wrigley and Ber
riman, No. 149, Chefnut-ftreet, and by the dif
(ereni bookleliers tn this city; Jacob Bailev,
Lancaster ; Yundt and Patton, Baltimore, and
by Editor.
EDMUND HOGAN.
N. B. The price will be enhanced to non
fHbfcr bets. Feb. tB. taw f
City Commissioners Office,
January 30, 1794.
IN pursuance of a Ke(o v- ot the Common
Council, dated the 20th day of January,
1794, for dividing the Cuy into five Diltn&s,
by lines drawn East and Weft, whereof each ol
the City Commifltoners is to take the fuperin
tendance of one of the said Diftr.fls, and to be
accountable tor the cLeanfmg, good order and
iegu!aru\ of the fame.
The Commiflioners have accordingly made
the following arrangement for the prefer.t :
Diflrifl tlu IJt. Nathan Boys, to have the
charge of that part of the streets, lanes and alleys
from Ccdar-ftreet, to the north fide of Spruce
ftieet
Difir iff the 2d. Hugh Roberts, from 'he north
fid of Sprucc-ftrtet to the north fide et Walnut
street.
Diflriß the 3d. Joseph Claypbole, from the
north Tide of Walnut 10 the south tide ot Hitfh
ftreet.
Dijlrtfl the 4th. William Moulder, from the
north fide of High, to the north fide of Mulberrv
street 7
Dijirid the §th. Nicholas Hicks, from (he
north iide ot Mulberry, to the north fide of Vine
ftrcet.
Lxt'-afl from the Minutrs,
JOHN MEASE, CM.
N B. The carriage way in Market-ftrect. is
under th* charge of the Gornmifli<>ners grnerailv,
for the pre fait, he foot-way o on the north and
south fides thereof, are conntfied with the ad
joining Diilri&s rcfpefhvcly.
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglUcacU and in cafci of 50 bottles each.
A few cases Champaigne Wine >
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hngthcads and quaiicr cjfri,
FOR SALE BY
No. in, South iroiu-.lrcct
Tin, a. 1794,
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegantHoufe,
and Let of Ground,
IN an eligible fituation,-—alfo-a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the Citv, with 9 acresot'
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House «s not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size or convenience,
For terms apply to the printer
January 23.
Office,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
Jamaica,^
An Ast for giving validity in this If!and to
Probates to be tahen, by certain Office/-s
in the United States of America, of 1) -erls
to be there executed, and also to Exempli
fications of IVills there proved.
WHEREAS, since the Separation from the
crown of Great-Britain of the late co
lonies, now called the Un ted States of Ame
rica, great inconveniences have arifentp many
of his Majesty's fubje<sls occasionally residing
in those States, for want of a legal provision
refpedling the probates and acknowledgments
of deeds executed in the said States, and in
tended to operate in this island : For re' edy
whereof, we, your Majesty's dutiful and lovil
fubje&s, the Lieutenant-Governor, Council,
and Afiembly of this your Majesty's iflar.d of
Jamaica, humbly beseech your Majelty that
it may be enacfted ; Be it therefore enadted,
and it is hereby enacted and ordained by the
authority of the fame, That, from and im
mediately after the palling of this a<3, any
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed
whatsoever, which shall be hereafter executed
in any of the United States of America, and
shall be proved by a fubferibing witness, or
acknowledged by the party or parties, before
any of his Majesty's Consuls or Vice-Confuli
residing in any of those States, or before the
Chief Jufticeof any of the said States, or be
fore the Chief Jullice or any of the Judg-.-s of
the Supreme Court of the said United States,
and certified under the seal of any of the said
States, or the seal of the said United States,
shall be, and the fame is hereby declared to
be, as good and effectual in the law as if fueh
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed,
had been refpedlively proved or acknowledged
before a Judge of any court of record in This
iflana ; any law, niftom, or usage, to the Con
trary notwithftandmg : —Provided always,
That in all cases wherein the right or property
of any woman under coverture is intended
to be conveyed, lhe (hall be examined separate
and apart from her husband, by the Judge
who attests the probate, and the said examina
tion shall be certified in like manner as is prac
tised in Great-Britain or in this Idand.
11. And be it further enaited by the autho
rity aforefaid, That the probate of any In ft
will and testament, taken before any officer
authorized to take probates of wills in any of
the said States, and exemplified under the
seal of the State where such probate fliall have
been taken, (hall be, and the fame is hereby
declared to be, as good and effedlual in the
law, as if such probate had been taken before
the ordinary of this island; any law, cuflnm,
or usage, to the contrary in any wife notwith-
Handing.
Pajfcd the Ajfembly this litb day of Noi-eut
ber, 1793.
WILLIAM BLAKE, Speaker,
ajjed the Council, this ttfh November, 170-;,
G.ATKINSON, CI. Council.
I consent, this 61\ December, 179^.
ADAM WILLIAMSON.
Vera copia extur. G. Atkinson, Sec.
* #*. Tlle American Printers are requefled
to publilh this act in their several newspapers.
<sy Proposals having keen publi/bed ln/l
autumn, for continuing the Gazette of the
United States as an half weekly paper, in
conjunction with a daily paper, frequent ap
plications (p'jiage unpaid) are made by per
funs at a dijlance for the former —but 'as the
terms proposed on that occajion were not com
plied with, the plan of an half weekly paper
is relinrjuijhed.
(C/* As the Editor has repeatedly been
subjected to pojlage on the Letters of per/on:,
who have in that -way applied to purckafe
the Fount of Long Primer -which lie hat
forfait —those -who wi/i to luy those types,
are informed that the price is twenty urns
per pound, cajh—to be paid at their delive
ry —the fount weighs about 2.50^.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed sy JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
ALSO,
JOHN VAUC.IIAN,
in&rh—tf
TO BE SOLD,