EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 93 of Vol. V.]
For Amsterdam,
—3 —> The new fall-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
mm ADRIAN A.
K. Fitzpatrick, Master.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or pafTage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnnt street wharf, or to
THOS. &. JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. PaiTengertwill be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794.
The American Brig
J&fcfeSlT R I T O N,
BURTUEN 7CQ barrels, with her tackle
and apparel as Ihe came from sea, Slje is a
flaunch veflel, not two years old, and may be
put to sea immediately. For terms apply
to
GARDINER & OLDEN,
Arch Street wharf.
Who have for sale,
Pork, Lard, and Hams As usual,
a quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and a few
casks Timothy Seed—also
Pig and Bar Iron, and Iron call
ings, in any form executed on the
shortest notice.
March 14.
For Sale or Charter,
ANDROMACHE,
John Moore > Majhr.
IS a flout good veffbl, about two years pld,
burthen 232 tons, haj only made three voy-
and m,iy be iciit to sea at a small e-4-
pcn.ce. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known bv application to
Lsrm.
lVlari:h 2 1
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
frorp Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walaut-ftreet wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A fe-zv bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Oz/iabitrgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glass -viz. Tumblers and Mugs, iti-
rious flzes.
Sheathing Paper,
S-.Ledes. Iron, fquqre and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4,
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of "Junk and Oakiun, &c.&c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS ZETLAND, Jan
7he- above-mentioned Ship is for StJe—r
fboukiapplication be made •within a few days ;
etherwife Jhe will ttfie freight for Amjler
dam.
March i, 1794.
FOB. S?T£\
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118.
Maiket-Strcet,,
An Eflay on Slavery:
Deftgned to exhibit in a new point of view,
its effects op morals y indujiry, and the peace of
society. Some fa&s and calculations ire ottered
to prove the labor of Jrcemen to be much more
productive than that ot Jlavcs ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and heirce the nceffary couclufton, that
slavery is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Pr ice 25 Cents,
TfiHruarv 1,5
The following Certifi-
C*te of the funded three per Cent Sock of the
Dotmftic Dkbt of the United States (landing on
the books of the Trcafury of the said United
States, in the names of Donnald and Burton of
London, meichants, and signed by Joseph
Nourle, Reg fterof said Treasury, to wit:—
No. dated 24th August 1792 for 2959
dollars and 53 cents wag trairfmitted from Lor»w
<Jon in the ,ft»ip Peter, Paul HufTey, mailer,
bound for New York, and has been loft.—
The Subleriber intending to apply to the Trea
furyof the United States to have the fame re
newed, defurs all persons who arc inter efted in
the said -certificate, to make their objections
thereto, if any they have.
Francis Maq.
Pliilad. Marth ij- <V>\v
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Doci-
Street:—
A few Bales of Shectiygs
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in floyes,
A bale of low-priced Cotioi\ Handkerehipfs,
A Quantity of Souchong Ti-a, Hyson and.
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Bnmifon*,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. 20. 3taw6w
Excellent CLARET,
In hogl• cads and in cases of 50 boitlcs each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,,
No. ill, Spqth Front ilrcct,
Jan. 2, 1794.
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
fe-veral of which have appeared in circulation
within a few days pajl; they arc a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be diftingui/hed by the following
MARKS.
*diot
ALL [that have appeared hay; the letter F.
tor their Alphabetical Mark.
The|Texture of the Paper is thiekcr and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. In ihe word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters of th.it word,
so that a line extended from ihe top of the O,
to touch the top of the M would extend coo
liderably above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand ekifer together than the reft of the bill
The 1 and fin the word promile are not
parallel, the yinclining much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the strokes
of all the Letters are ft rouge r and the devii e
in the margin particularly isuiuch coaifcr and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
a bear date in l;9i—.Where
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern.-.
ber, and 110 five dollar bills were ifiued in
that year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank as North
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B for their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly fimilac
to that of the counterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described; the engraviug is better exe
cuted, and they approach nearer to tne ap
pearance of the genuine hills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, are in number thir
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar B lis as defer ibed a.
bove, the 0 being left than them, and others
fallowing.
Their is no stroke to the tin the word North
whe eas in tile genuine bills the ltrokcis well
defined.
d—tf
The let!ers ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and ihej> go
ing below them.
The Siguature J Nijcon, has the appear,
ante of bring written with larap-blaclc and
oil, and differs from the other inks used in
priming the biils and the calhier's lignature.
It is supposed these forgeries were committed
in feme of the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come from
thence, and two persons have been apprehend
ed in Virginia, on suspicion of being the authors
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Person or Perlons who shall
discover and prolecute to convi&ion the feveial
offenders of the following descriptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or pcrfons, who manufa&ured
the paper on which the Bills are printed.
The person or persons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
Every person who has acted as a principal ifi
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the. said Wills.
THOMAS WILLING, Prefiler.t
of the Bmk United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bank of North Ameica.
By order of the' Committees of the Rrf.
pe&ive Boards.
Philadelphia* March 28. 1794. dtf
Monday, March 31, 1794.
Mordecai Lewis,
In pipes, hogftieads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE 9Y
JOHN VAUGHAN,
Fhie Hollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
America.
AND
WANTED
AN APPRENTICE
To the Printing Buiinefs, Enquire at' this.
Office.
The following article ij occajimedJiy an -Ad
itertijhnent, of the keeper of the 'Museum
in in which the public are in
formed, that " a cOmpleat GuMvtine, ca
pable of performing the part, d which it 1
was originally defignad in France and a
wax figure, which frequently repcefcjits a
nun beheaded"—are to be l'eea at tkat
Repository of curiosities.
From the (N.T.) Daily Advertijer.
KEEPER of the GUILLOTINE;
You have often taken occafiprt to re
mind us of the dignity of your appoint
ment, by the frequency of your publications
these however, having generally been littlf*
more than theavaricious dilplsv of. a catch
pennyJhetvman, would have pa dec] without
police ; but your late advertikinent,
not to creep out of fight without antmad
verilon. The additional ci.rioiity of 9
Guillotine which you have with equaljugj
rnerit and generality, procured for th« di
veitil'ement of the goot' people «f Nqw-
YOl k,calls; for compensation very different
from what yon ordinarily receive. Let ui
however look at this new ground of your
pretentions to public favor—let us fee
what you Cay for yourfelf. J Tom Thumb,
Elquire, prime virtuoso, and
general, having long delighted in exhibi
ting and deferring natural deformities,
deleterious plants, venomous animals, See.
npw offer to the view of my inquisitive
countrymen that exquisite piece of
u'irkmanftiip—that paragon or mechiap
ism—that machine of never dying csfe
brity—the; GUILLOTINE.
Think no more brave friends of air
guns, rattlesnakes, and scalping knives j
these hide their dimini(he4 heads, and are
scarce worthy of lying in the fame room
in the pretence of this admirable pootfi
vancc which yields Uj nothing of human
ingenuity but to its glorious prototype m
the Revolution Square qf pari:.
Do not imagine gaJlan t citizens, that I
mean to mqck your b"Pe?t on difaupoint
your expectations by exhibiting this ailo
nifhingcontrivance, painted on baby-cards,
or cut out of pafte-bwd—Np, I fcom
such childish amufemeut—l have it beau
tifully erected, compofej_pf folui Jharf
materials of full growth, perfectly fitjted
and ready to perform the for
which it was ORIGINALLY IN
TENDED. Bra VP ! Bravo 1 Bravo I
Vive la Guillotine.
But to be serious—is itpofiible that the
intelligent, the kind hearted citizens of
can have arrived at fyclj a 4«?
grec of indifference, as to read with pati
ence, or view with composure, so sangui
nary an instrument, advertised tQQ in lan
guage so ofFenfive to common decency, fa
ihocking to hnmanity ? What 1 this bloo
dy weapon may It ufedand is how, ready to
commence its bloody career in these peace
ful regions ? Forbid it God of all mercy.
Shall our real, our unfeigned love of
liberty, unheedingly fecjHce us into an liaf
ty approbation of every measure and rvtry
means to which lefe favored nations have
resorted, than were necessary in this en
lightened country, for the eftahlifhrnent
of rational liberty ?
Shall we make familiar to our eyes ob
jects of horror, that w« may banish from
our heart*, those gentle emotions ; those
endearing affections ; those reverential
views of aoothef world, which give to
life it-s highest, its most delightful rcli.'h,
and without which we are no better tkan
brutes. God forbid.
But some will fay, i ftrrely the fight of a
Guillotine net A not pccafion fucb gloemy re
fieclkms. FeUow-CitisuWß.you are mlAcfcen
*—a dangerous fprrit h?s crept in smpng us-r
'an inluiiou* fpir»:, vv!yr.h.j£ wdaaptvaiffc,
faiei
[Whole No. 553.]
will overthrow us.—ks operation is guided
by this principle. If I can pcrfuade the peo
ple of Amerita, tP Approve heartily and
openly of every species of means, for the
accomplifljment of a papular end my; \voF,k
is"half done. The between appro
bation, and adoption, fiercely admits ofmea
furement. I leave the good fenie of those
who reflet, to fill up the commentary. HoVr
cautious tuight the people of America to lie
at tins awful period ! How diftreUing the
idei that this prpfperpus, this independent
land, so lately saved from the grasp of all
devouring ambition, ijjay soon be plunged
into all the horrors which at present are de
flating with mighty strides, the old world !
My friends the present state of.fociety and
manner* aipong us aflfotds. well grounded ar»-
prchenfions that we are infenfibje of the bief
lings whjclj we pofiefs, and in
the moll imminent danger of losing them :
When the moral lentiment is debased, or
allowed such unbridled licence, as is everv
where evidenced, it naturaHy weakens tile
iegal power of the government, ahd givesi
6ipre%e of, decaying morality, or of po
litical Uecad?nqe, ~
But why, you will fay, Keeper of curirji
tief, all tljis fecmopwiog ?• D« not fret, ror
flatter yourfelf that it is you.
this paper comerinto the hands o£ojie reflc(st
ing citizen,of ©ue true patriot, warmed with
,he iieal love of liiscQHntry.he will not disdain
tQ reafl it, ajjd luch are the men with v/honi
J wiih tpadbciate.
Keeper of. Beaftt Ailicu.
March 26.
Frern the Gensrnl Advtrt 'ijer.
The Legislature will dp n xerv popular
a& by granting to Mr. Peale, tiie moder
ate loan he cequefts.
The general inters ft of science demands
In all civilizcd countries aid and patronage,
becaiil* it exalte mankind to the dignity
and felicity of their donation. The
cultivation of natural Mtory' is in this'
country very important in many
It brings to light our many treafi»res 19
animals* plants and .minerals ; fuggefling
tfeareby new branches ps mauufecuues and
commerce, which otliarvvife. may lie JoV
mcnt for a long time. fylr. Ptale's
le&ion of ores and fwfiils does already rais
n't attention. What sums may we not faye
is articles of copper and tin, (jucenV
ware, &e, by exploring and improving the
treasures we often tread upon ! The hair
of wild animals, the featlfers of birds, the
bones and, oil of fifties, are io fever
ed countries employed ip divsrfc manufac
tures"; for example, the strongest glue is
made from the lk in of a species of
by the Laplanders. The nffals of herr/ng
are by a lat« improvement, converted into
very valuable oil, by the Swedes. In Eng
land and Germany a-great variety of eltt
gant feathered muff's are rnnde. TL9 skins
of Elks ve ip the north of Europe made
intQ buff, so firm as to be a defenfive ar
mour.
The moral effe& ps a museum isr very
fojiMerable, I appeal to all who have
seep thi? sublime inferiptiou In that of Mr.
Peale.
" A(k the beasts, arid they- will tcjfch
thee : and fowls of the air, ar\d they (hall
tell thee, and the fifties of the sea (hall de
ckrc un.ta thee. Who knoweth not in at]
tbefe, that the hand of the LORD hath
wrought this ? Jn whose hand is tbc fauj
of every living thing, and the breath of
all mankind." Job, XIJ. ?, 8, 9, 10,
ysrfcs.
Haw many thoafand pounds do w«,
throw away upon foreign gewgaws! Let
ladies and gentlemen who admire true ej?«-
gance, yitw the Summer Duck, the hum-,
raing bird, the fcavlet fparrtjvv, the Brati-,
Han creeper, the gold finch, the poweefe, •
the ruby crested wen, Bcc. they wilj be
charmed at a very small expense.
Numbers wiih with myfelf, that Jilr.
Pealc, may have fiufficient encouragement
to remain arooflg us. The removal of the
museum would not only be feverety .felt
h.y the votari-s of feience but also (iimim'fh
tqat circulation of wealth winch arises from
of liberal arts.
A JLQVT.R qs Nature. 1
A WAN,LAW OF THE UNION.
THIRD CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES,
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennfyisania, on Monday
thefecatud of December,one thousand
fevea hundred and ninety-three.
An ACT ta provide for the defence of cer
tain Ports and Harbori m the United
Statu,
Sec. I. T)E it truifted by the Senate and
Ij House of Representatives of
the United Statu of America in Congress
affembted, That the following ports and
harbors be fortified under the direction of
the President of the United States, and
at such time or times, as he may judge
necessary, to wit; Portland in the diftrift
of Maine; Poitfmouth in the Hate of
New Hampshire ; Gloucester, Salem,
Marblehead and Bolton, in the State of
MalTachufetts ; Newport in the state of
Rhode Ifiand; New London in the state
of Connefticnt ; New York ; Philadel
phia ; Wilmington in the state of Dela
ware; Baltimore, in the state of Mary
land ; Norfolk and Alexandria, in the
state of Virginia ; Cape Fear river and
Ocracock inlet in the state of North Ca
rolina ; Charleftofl and Georgetown, in
the state of South Carolina ; and Savan
nah and Saint Mary's in the state of
Georgia.
Sec. 2. And he it further enaOed, That
it (hall be lawful for the President of the
United States to employ, as garrisons in
the said fortifications, or any of them,
such of the troops on the military esta
blishment of the United States, as he may
judge necessary ; and to cause to be pro
vided one" hundred cannon, of a caliber
each to carry a ball of thirty two pounds
weight, and one hundred other cannon,
of a caliber each to carry a ball' of twen
ty four pounds weight; together with
the carriages and implements necessary
for the fame, and carriages with the ne
cessary implements for one hundred and
fifty other cannon, with two hundred and
fifty tons of cannon-(hot.
Sec. 3. And be it further enaSed, That
it (hall be lawful for the Prefldent of the
United States to receive from any State
(in behalf the United States) a ceflion
of the lands, on which any of the fortifi
cations aforefaid, with the neceflary
buildings, may be erected, or intended to
be erefked ; or where such ceflions {hall
not hi made, to purchase such lands, on
behalf of the United States ; Provided,
That no purchase {hall be made, where
such lands are the property of a State.
Frederick AugustusMuhlenberg,
Speaker of the House of
Representatives.
John Abams, Vice-President of the
United States, and President
of the Senate.
Approved—March the"!
twentieth, 1794. j
Go. Washington, President of the
United States.
Depdfited among the Rolls in the office
of the Secretary of State.
Edm. Randolph,
Secretary of State.
An ACT making farther provi/ien for the
expenses attending the intercourse of the
United States with foreign nations ; and
further to continue in force the ad, intitu
led "An A3 providing the means of
intercourse between the United States and
foreign nations."
Sect. I. T) Zit enaßedby the Senate and
1) House of Reprefentathics of
the United States of America, in Congress
assembled, That a sum of one million of
dollars, in addition to the proviiion here*
-tofore made, be appropriated to defray a
riy expenses which may be incurred, in re
lation to the intercourse between the Uni
ted States and foreign nations, to be paid
out of any monies, which may be in the
treasury, not otherwise appropriated, and
to be applied, under the direction of the
President of the United States, who, if
necessary, is hereby authorized to borrow
the whole or any part of the said sum of
one million of dollars; an acconnt of the
expenditure whereof as soon as may be,
/hall be laid before Congress.
Sec. 2. And be it further enaSed, That
the a£t, intitled "An a£t providing the
means of intercourse between the United
t ates and foreign nations," palled the
iirft day of July, one tho'ufand seven hun
dred au*d ninety, together with die fecoad '
feftion of the a(2, intituled " An ast to
continue in forcse, for a limited time, and
to amend the ast, intituled " An ast pro- '
viding the means of intercourse between
the United States and foreign nations,"
palled the ninth day .of February, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety three,
shall be continued in force, for the terra of'
oad year from the palling of this ast, and
from thence, until the end of the next
fcffiun of Congress thereafter holden, and
no longer.
Frederick Augustus MuhlenSeig,
Speaker of the House of
Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-Prelident of the
United States and President "*
of the Senate.
Approved March the 1
twentieth, 1794.
G°. Washington, President of the
United States.
* A CARD.
The Citizen was acquainted with the
circnmftance of the luciy return of Mr.
S——'s veflel—however as Hie had not
been many days out, thequeftion he put,
was not out of order. The citizen is glad to
hear that Mr. S. is done with the Britifli,
and by their late reprehensible conduct,
Mr. S. concludes that they have done with
him. To descend to particulars, the Ci
tizen wi(hes that Mr. S. had been a little
more correct and clear in some of hisftate
ments, as it would have saved, him the
trouble of racking his imagination to state
them more cleat ly. The (hip Adtive he
conceives to be detained undor the general
order, to interrupt all fuppKes of provisi
ons to France. The Mercury though im
properly intetrupted by the captain of a
Britilh frigate, was fuffered to fell her car
go at Jamaica, and Mr. S. no doubt is in
pofleflion of the valuable returns—can all
the owners of vessels whose cargoes have
been fold in French ports fay as much ?
Are they not often valued and taken by
officers of thitu:dmirailc government which
Mr. S. has so much confidence in, at less
than the original coil, without the cap
tains' being allowed any voice in the cafe
—and then it has not always happened
that they have been paid tor them, even
according to their own valuation. With
Tefpeft to the John, Mr. S—i 's fiea
vieft loss, it is said "that this reflel was at
the time employed in carrying wheat ihe
British had taken for their own account,
though dellined for St. Maloes from one
of their own ports, before the war between
France and Great Britain was declared."
The C. declares that he is so dull of com
prehension as to be unable to make out
the meaning of this, but if he may'be al
lowed to give a guess at it, the meaning
of it is this—This veflel was employed by
somebody to carry wheat from a Britilh
port to a French port, contrary to an a m
of the Britilh Parliament, or an order of
the King and privy council, (1 am not
certain which) ifliied some time before the
war broke oufcl—flie was taken in the fad,
and the conlequences probably were as
Hated by Mr. S.—(he was employed in a
trade in violation of the laws of an inde
pendent nation ; and however Mr.S 's
loss is to be lamented, the veflel deserves
no pity for her untimely fate—but what
was Mr. S about not to calculate his
rifle in time, and be paid before hand as
the wary Danes and Hamburghers ? It
would be paying a poor compliment to
Mr. S———'s sagacity, to suppose that
he was behind hand with the mod cautious
of them, in this or any other instance where
caution was necefiary. Having succeeded
in the developement of the causes of this
misfortune wrapped up in such myflerious
language as at firil fight to preclude a hope
of the possibility of an unravelment, what
are Mr. S 's grievances reduced to ?
The solitary and single cafe of the A&ive
detained at Falmouth—Mr. S. does not
tell us, that (he is libelled, condemned, or
adjudicated, and his grievance is the less,
as he had timely notice of the rifle of all
vefiels bound to France with pravifionsV
except rice—the propriety of the order
which placed those veflcls under such ha
zardous circumstances will be difcuifed
elsewhere—is it is new and #hat was never
done before in time of war, Mr. S. will
please to take notice that they are not
without a trans Atlantic example for adopt
ing what was never adopted before.—The
Citizen never doubted of Mr. S. having
derived considerable emolument from liw
trade with the ports as France—but-that
was not the question he put, lie nK-iely
teok tbe liberty of alking how nianv velTels
he had lately tent to the ports of France,
meaning perhaps a month before he dis
patched his last. veiJelfor-Falraouth —The
C. is happy to hear that Mr. S. has no
thing to fear for his vessel which the Con
vention has in their wisdom embargoed at
Boiirdeaux—does not this ihew that Mr.
S. is -always upon his guard and cautious
to provide against the worfl: ? In every in
stance, but in the unfortunate cafe of the
John it has appeared so; being £0 fortunate
ly istuated he has no occasion to do what
others have been compelled to do, viz. to
bribe the National Commissaries, as Mr.
S. chufes to call them.
With rtfpeft to the epithets which Mr.
S. willies to bestow on the Bntifh govern
ment for their late conduct, the Citizen
replies, that the diftrefles occasioned by
war, arealways to be lamented upon what
ever people thry fall—but the C. will again
remind Mr. S. that the government under
which we ourselves live, and enjoy pro
te&ion, arc not guiltless of being the cause
of diiirefs to a large class of innocent in
dividuals.
Congress of the United States.
House of R eprefentatiws
SublUnce of the remarks made by Mr. Giles
on the ioth of March 1794, upon the
question for the passage of the bill provi
ding a naval armament.
Mr. Giles commenced his remarks by ob
serving, that from the Jenfe of the houi'e k
veral times manifefted upon this subject, there
remained no doubt but that the bill would
pass. In that event, he moll earnestly hoped
that the success of the measure, would at
least equal the expectations of its advocates:
Indeed he hoped that their expectations would
be disappointed and exceeded ; for it did not
seem to him that even thev were very poii
tive as to its full competency to the end pro
posed. He even wifibed that every fliip could
be furmfhed with the cap of Fortunatus and
the lhield of Hercules ; for he was persuaded,
that in the prelent Hate of things some ma
gical influ.nce, would be found efltntial to
enable them to effect their undertaking. He
observed that at present, the wtfdon or lolly
of the proposed measure, was mere flatter
of opinion, but the passage of the bill will
furnifh futurity with a compleat experiment
of its true character.
He intended to offer his reasons against the
passage of the bill, not with a hope of mak
ing proselytes, but as a tcftimony of the real
motives which influenced his opposition.
With this view he ihould only mention l'ome
of the general impressions produced on his
mind by this fubjeift, without fatiguing the
house with minute exemplifications of them.
Thefubjedl had p'refented itfelf to hiiri in
two points of view—:ift. As affording a pro
te<Sion to our commerce against the Algerine
depredations, id. As the foundation of a
permanent naval eftabluhment.
He could not help premising, that in the
course of discussion the advocates of the bill,
had ceniured its opponents with a want of
disposition for the proteAion of commerce,
whilst they claimed a monopoly of ail good
intention towards this objeit. He did not
mean to derogate from the good intention of
the favorers of the bill, but he believed its op
ponents possessed as pure a zeal for the pro-
And due encouragement of commerce,
as its advocates. It is not a question, whe
ther commerce is, or is not, to be protected ;
but whether the plan proposed be the most
effe&ual and the least exceptionable, thai can
be devised for that pnrpole ? The difference
of opinion does not consist in the aid to be
produced ; but in the means propqjed to tjftll
the end.
The firli objection he Ihould make to the
bill, would be, the obvious inadequacy of the
means contemplated, to efle<st the end propo
sed by them. The object proposed, is an ef
fectual refinance not only to the whole pre
sent naval force of Algiers, but to their whole
naval ability. The bill contains in itfelf ef
lentially a declaration of war: our calcula
tions therefore ihould be extended to the ut
moll limit of the uaval ability of the hostile
nation. The means to l>e employed conlilt
of 4 frigates of 44 guns each, ana a ftips of
36 guns each. To decide with propriety up
on the objection, this force Ihould be com
pared with the naval ability of Algiers. He
did not mean to go into a minute biftorv of
Algiers ; he Ihould only observe in general,
that it \<'as a populous country, that it had
furnilhed at one time 100,000 fighting men,,
that its power at this day, was as great as at
any preceding period ; that they were a war
like people, accustomed to naval enterprises,,
and desperate in naval engagements; that
forfome time part, they had been-fiibfidized
for peace by almost every European nation ;
he could not help concluding irom these cir
cumltances that the naval ability of the na
tion either was or might, without any un
common exertions, be rendered fupenor to
four 44 gun frigates and two 36 gun Clips,
the force contemplated by t£e bill; and if
the coucluiions were juii, the bill is unwise.
• Intieigw&of ttfeedelatektsaifceaißv
' plied to IS*. skwrnnem of tlge abiEtor of the
InmAcavakr of mca it
- has IwTOijht into the fidd; Ait tW naval
' armaMfnia: tea* my tn attack tie i»-
yiidfcle miSiaa of A%ioi; Abb trae, but
it is no rdfmatioa at tbe TV
iaA the afcfiityofthe mion m
iaMj inference lien, that
if jUriasi3»aat &ghanaMKty np^
by changing the of her a&Ety, ffce
wcwid ccztaimly fsnufli a force at fez greatly
tbe smusKnt proposed. TBie
hiilory of lRx foriHer naial V\miom wootrf
zl£a jaffify this comiiifiao. Providing this
ajifunina? wouid naturally turn the attention
of Algiers to the inmtaifc of hornaral flmyl.,
audit doitoi tbe policy of moibiß, which
«x^dpradiKetlatcrea,wiUioi|ttbelJnrted
Status wmf deUtteined to enter imh a coav
jxrtioon tor naval power, with the nations of
iolopc. Naval exertions ha v e been carried
to tach excels, that there istcafcdy any thing,
which funajha mote feopefbr comparifou.
Several nations poSeSag a much greater na
val ftnrngtli than is contempiatcd by this bill,
he bditrd, were at war with Algiers at this
moment, jet her coriairs swim in the ocean
rtgandkfo of their enemy, and hardly recol
lecting that they are in a fbte of war. He
tiixigit it unfafe to calculate upon any pecu
liar is vincibilhy in the armament now propo
sed, and without fiich a quality although he
hoped their efficacy, yet he feared their inel'-
ficacy.
He should Fear the refult,-if the con
tell in other ftfpe&s were \p be upon e
qnal terms, but that will not be the cafe.
The armament will meet with peculiar
embarraismcnt from the expected scene of
a&ion. They are to ast 3,000 miles
from home without the guarantee or even
the profpectof a friendly port, they are
( to continue the uhole year upon their Ra
tion/ and >to befubjeft to attack whenever
the enemy may think proper, they will
alio be contiuually exposed to a tempestu
ous ocean; under these circumrtances
they mull ast upgn the moil difadvauta
geous terms, whrch will lefTen extremely
their profpeft of success- The advocates
of the bill have admitted the necessity of
finding some • friendly ports in the Medi
terranean seas, and several hate been men
tioned, Carthagcna, Gibraltar, &c. &c.
but their hopes appeared to him to be
wholly chimerical.
He did not know how far it might be
proper to have reference to confidential
communications, to present this part of
the fubjeft in its true light. He thought
however, he- might be permuted to men
tion in general, that it has been officially
communicated to the House, that the truce
with Algiers, which has produced the in
jury to our commerce, agSinft which the
present remedy is directed, is part of the
lyllem of the combination ajniinft France.
The mildest apology from Great-Britain,
for her interposition, has been, to enable
Portugal to ast more efficaci»ufly in the
common cause of despots. Other effects,
equally important to that end, willrefult,
and no doubt, were taken into t*ie esti
mate. They all may resolve themselves in
to the embarrassments produced to our
commerce. Tin's information cafinot be
questioned. If then the Algerine truce
be part of the fyltem of the combination
again ft France, is it probable, that the
combined powers, will afford their ports
for the protection of an armament, in
tended to interrupt and destroy that part
of the fyfteni ; May it not rather be in
ferred, that they will fend theiraid to their
allies, the Algerines, to destroy the fores
sent against them ? Have we hopes against
this natural and obvious consequence,
from the good dispositions of the combi
ned powers towards us ? Hare we any
hopes from their inability, to effect the
objeit: For his part, he thought it was
in vain to hope for a contrary result.
From these refk-ftions, occurs another ob
vious objection to the measure, its direst
tendency to war. Upon another occasion
it has been said, that Great Britain parti
cularly, is irritiable towards us, and all
meafuies ought to be avoided, which
might tend to cncreafe the irritability. It
really has become a question for this
House, for all America, to determine,
and particularly the lovers of peace, whe
ther a naval armament, calculated ro refill
pap of the system of the conibina ion a
gainst France, and destined to ast in the
very scene of war; or imposing higher
duties upon feme articles of imports, and
making an acl for the regulation of onr
own navigation, possess the greatefl ten
dency to war i
For his part, if the propofcd armament
should be provided, he had but one confo
latioa againfl this palpable effca of it
But that confsilation fumiihed the strong.
eft argument against the measure. The
trees are now growing, out of which thefrigates are to be built. A considerable
time must of course elapse, before thele
trees can be put into the ftiape of sri-
gates.
From the. present agitation and Humili
ation of European affairs, great changes
before that time may be effe&ed, and the
neceflary delay in equipping the armament
will be the only chance of avoiding a war
by means of the measures.
If the frigates were now afloat, and en
gaged in the expedition againtl Algiers,
helhould view the United States in a state
of actual hostility against the whole com
bined powers.
But the neceflary delay which may
furnifh the only security against war, as a
result of the measure, proves the folly of
an expensive armament, which, before it
■ an be provided, the fluctuation of Euro
pean affairs, may render wholly unnecef
i'ary.
(Speech to be continued.)
AMERICA.
St. JOHN'S (Antigua) Feb. 25
The accounts received lalt week from
St. Kittsi of the capture of Fort Bourbon
in Martinique, are contradicted in that
I (land, it seems, by hand bills circulating
when the Mail Boat left it on Saturday.
By accounts from Montferrat, carried
thither by one of the Privateers,it appears,
that the British army had carried by as
sault, a Redoubt called Bouille, after a fe
yere contest, in which we loft 22 killed,
and 37 wounded ; fifteen Mulattoes and
five Whites, found there, were put to the
bayonet. From this redoubt, it is said,
Fort Bourbon may be battered in breach ;
(hould that be the cafe, we have no doubt,
that our gallant countrymen will soon cap
ture it. Fort Bourbon is attacked by 3
columns, one under Sir Charles Grey,
another under Ceneral Dundas, the third
under Colonel White- General Prefcot
commands one of the detachments a&ing
against Gros Morne and St. Pierre, and
Colonel Myers the other. Bellegardes,
second in command, ha* been taken and
handed; and the greateftdiflenfion prevailed
in Fort Bourbon. Rochambeau talks of
funender, the garrison will not attend to it;
and none will take the command of that
important Fortress. Our batteries play
incessantly upon it, and the fire of the
garrison is very weak indeed. They are
principally annoyed from a Bomb battery
of seventeen 22 inch Mortars;
UNITED STATES.
PITTSBURGH, March 22.
The Governor of this Commonwealth
has appointed the following gentlemen Of
ficers of the four companies to be raised
for the defence of the Delaware, and the
frontiers of Weftmoreland, Waftungton,
and Allegheny counties' viz.
Artillery Company,
Captain, John Rice,
Lieutenant, John Hazlewood, Jun.
Ensign, John Sallberry,
Waftrington County.
Lieutenant, Robert Miller,
Ensign, Chas. Craycraft, Jun.
Weftmoreland County.
Captain, John Sloan,
Lieutenant, John Craig,
Ensign, James M'Comb.
Allegheny County.
Captain, Ebenezer Denny,
..lieutenant, Tho. Bell Paterfon,
Ensign, Samuel Murphy,.
' Prefqu'ifle Command.
Ebenezer Denny,
~ f John Hazlewood, Jun.
Lieutenants, j J Robert Miller>
James M'Comb.
Capain,
£nfign,
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 31.
The following <was received lafl night, by
express from Bq/ion.
Boston, March z?th, 1794.
By the Packet from Halifax, arrived this day,
we present the following interesting intel
ligence.
Extra# of Letters from MefTrs. BIRD,
SAVAGE and BIRD, Merchants in Lon
don, to their Correspondent in this town,
dated as under. -
January i, 1794.
AMERICAN merchants, and the Gentle
men of Lloyd's Coffee-Houfe, have experi
enced a great degree of alarm, in conse
quence of inftruftions, dated 6th of Novcm-
Jtr, V"f not ITued until the last of Decem
ber*. The great ground of alarm was a
misapprehension that the terms flop and de
tain, and bring to legal adjudication, meant
a condemnation. But the merchants have
had a meeting about it: and our Mr. H. M.
BIRD was of the committee, who went to
the Admiralty PROCTOR and Mr. DUN
DAS, to require an explanation of the in
ftruilions—the result of which is, that the
term " legal adjudication" means no more
than that i'uch cargoes (hould be brought to
trial, to find out if they are not French pro
perty—but if they are found to be American,
they will be released, fubjeit only to charges,
as there are grounds of suspicion fufficient to
juftify the detention arising from a dil'covery
haviug been made that property is frequently
mailced. This only relates to cargoes landed
in and (hipped from America.
But the committee, under Mr. Dundas's
directions, are preparing a petition, to mi
nistry, of such a modification as would
relieve vessels laden in America, on Ame
rican accouht, with French colonial pro
duce for Europe, if not bound to France,
and we hope to be able to fend you a fa
vorable account from ministry, by our rlext.
This information you may deem authen
tic, and as it probably may be of a differ*
ent tenor from other letters frond hence,
it may be proper to make it public."
* Error—This order issued in Nov.
January 10, 1794-
" WE have the pklfure to hand you a
copy of frefli Inftruftions, which have been
iflued, in consequence of the representations
of the Committee of American Merchants
to His Majesty's Ministers, which we flatter
ourselves will give as much fatisfacHon in
America, as we experience, and that it may
tend to strengthen the friendlhip and good
understanding between the two countries, so
eflentially to the prosperity of both. The de
lays arising in the Commons, do not reft with
Ministers, bat with the Judge, who presides
in the Admiralty Court, and they (hew a
disposition to redress this grievance, by re
moving him, if it can be done."
Her follow the inJlruJlionj publi/hed in our
paper of Friday lajl.
Extraifl df a letter dated January 11, 1794,
from a mercantile house of the firft refpec-
tability m London.
" WE have now the fatisfcicftion to ac
quaint you, that the memorial of our mer
chants, has been attended to, and that the
order of Council of 6th November, is res
cinded, and in lieu thereof, the following
iflued:
"To stop and detain all shipS laden with
produce of the French IHinds, coming dircil
from the IQands to Europe," and likewise
" all {hips laden with Frcnch property, and
to bring them into' our ports, for legal adju
dication."
By which you will observe, that the trade
between the Islands and America is not af
fefled—and we are persuaded from this de
liberate discussion, and from the consequent
order, that the property bona fide American,
and coming diredl from America, will be
prote<sled—but all produce of the French
Islands coming direfl from the Islands to
Europe, will if captured be confifcated —let
the property belong to whom it may.
The militia of Maflachufetts consists of
eighty regiments of infantry, of nearly one
thousand men each ; the major part in uni
form. Thirty companies of artillery, in
compleat uniform, with two pieces of field
artillery each, principally brass ; and upwards
of ten squadrons of cavalry, in uniform, all
officered, and compleatly equipped.
The whole of this force is in the field four
times a year annually in detachments j be
sides being multered and reviewed by the ma
jor-generals of DiviHons in large bodies, col
lected to a central point by regiments and
brigades.
These field days and reviews form the
mod pleasing and attracting public exhibi
tions of the country, collect the largest aflem
blies of citizens of both fexes,who by their
presence and approbation, animate the guar
dians of our liberties in the pursuit of thole
military accomplishments, which are the
surest fafeguard of the blessings of society.
Extrafl of a letter from Charleston, dated
the 24th instant.
" At this moment our commerce is at a
stand, owing to a momentary expectation
of receiving accounts from those in power
with you, that we are no longer at peace
with the Briti(h,againft whom the merchants
of this place, in consequence of the great
and unwarrantable depredation on their com
merce are much incensed."
By this Day's Mail.
GEORGE-TOWN, March 25.
At a meeting of the Direßort of the Bank of
Columbia, March 22d, 1794-
Benjamin Stoddert was unanimously,
chosen Prefidcnt of the Bank ; and
Samuel Hanfon «f Saml. unanimous
ly, Cafuicr.
BOSTON, March 25.
Civic Festival Sufpendcd.
From the uncertainty of our present
political situation, and the diitreffes and
embarrafiments of our trade, the commit
tee appointed to prepare a Civic Feast,
recommended a temporary suspension of
all feftive appearances on account of the
brilliant and unexampled successes of our
friends and allies the French nation.
By order of the Committee,
Thomas Crafts, Chairman.
Boston, March 22. 1794.
FRANCE.
Pars, Dec. 31. Armand-Louis Goutaud,
ci-devant Duke de Biron, born April nth,
1747, married to Emilia Boufflers, February
4th, 1766, formerly General of the armies
of the Republic in Italy and in La Vendee,
has been executed, convicted of being an ac
complice in a conspiracy against the internal
and external fafety of the Republic.
The principal leaders of the infurreftion
at Lisle, now confined in the dliferent prisons
at Paris, are the Governor Vjlette, the lam:
who denounced General Lamorliere, who
has periflied on the fcaffold ; Dufraiile, Ge
neral of the Revolutionary Army, who so
late as the last year trod the Aageat BrufTelj;
Lis Adjutant-General Beauvofin ; Serdeaux,
aid-de-camp; and Capperon and Target, ge
nerals of brigade, and some others.
Yesterday being the day appointed for
the Civic Festival on the re-vaptiire of
Toulon, the Convention did not fit. The
ceremony, the order of which was arrang
ed by David the Painter, was urtiered in
by the firing of cannon. Fourteen chari
ots, with devices emblematic of the four
teen armies of France, and the figure of a
ihip, as the emblem of the navy, formed
the principal objedts in the procefiion; and
an occasional hymn was sung.
NEW-LONDON, (Con.J March 24.
ExtraS from Thomas Pool's Marine LiJ},
Arrived brig Neptune, Burnham, in 20
days from New-Providence, where he was
carried in by a privateer, detained eight
days arjl then released. All American
vefiels in tliat poit are relealed.
Arrived, brig Apollo, J. Williams, in
13 days from Grenada, via Turks-ifiand,
touchei at St. Thomas's, where he law
Capt. Gurdon Saltonftall, of this port.—
Capt. Williams saw Mr. Fortefque Cum
iiaitig in Grenada, 22d Jan. last, hearty
and well, who was to fail in a few days
sos Trinidad, and expected to .lail foi New
Haven about the 15th February ; Capt.
Williams had letters for his \yife and
friends in New-Haven, but being chafed
by a French privateer, was obliged to
throw them overboard.
Tuesday 15. Arrived, fehooner Polly,
A. Gilbert, in 20 days from the Cape;
left there, fehooner Lark, Tittle, Bevei ly,
fchoner Farmer, Allen, Martha's-Vine
yard, brig Bayonne, Rhode-Island, brig
Columbia, Barney, Hudson, fehooner An
drew, Norton, Philadelphia, fehooner Ju
no, do. brig Salome, Watson, do. fehoo
ner Hope, Higby, New-York. The a
bove veifels are waiting payment from go
vernment.
Capt. Gilbert fays the Republicans had
regained several forts which had been ta
ken by the Spaniards near the Cape.
The resolutions of Mr. Dayton ref
pefting the sequestration of British pro
perty were this day, on .motion of Mr.
Mercer postponed—several members who
are oppoled to the resolutions fjfoke againil
any delay of a decision,
The resolutions rt ported by a feledt
committee relative to placing the force of
the United States in a more efficient state,
were taken up ip committee of the whole—
some amendments took place—which with
the resolutions were reported to the house.'
The house agreed to the amendments—
an, additional resolution for veiling the
Prdident with power to raise twenty five
thoivfand men, in cafe war (hould take
place, was postponed till to-morrow.
P&RT OF PHILADELPHIA.
A R R I V E D.
days
Ship Hibernia, Mafley, New-York 7
Abigail, Horton, do. 8
Sloop New jorge, Lincoln, Boston 13
Ranget, Gates, New York 5
Schr. Friendftiip, Patton, Bermuda 9
Ship Liberty, Caldwell,' returned
Brig Brandywine Miller, Curfen, do.
Mo'ly, Trerr.clls, do.
Jetierfon, Morris, do
A letter from a gentleman in Antigua
to his friend in this City, of March 4b,
mentions, That seven American vefcls
v.-crc condemned there, from the 28th of
February, to the above date, (March the
4th.)
Arrived, the (hip Enterprise, Captain
Jones, in 12 days from Havannah, he in
forms, that on the igth of Mai eh, in la:.
49. he spoke the brig Industry, Captain
Laya, from New -York, bound to Havan
nah—out 28 days.
Capt. Jones further informs, that on the
24:}] inft. off the Delaware Capes., he lpohe
the lhip Fame, Cspt. Eldridge ; lame time
he saw the (hip Aerial, Capt. -Decatur, both
from Philadelphia, a few hours out.
Capfain Patton left at Bermuda, 22
fail at American Veflels, part condemn
ed, and others waiting for a trial.—-He
also informs, that , the sloop Sally, Cnpt.
Weft of Philadelphia, was to fail the
fame day he left Bermuda : In which
Capt. Hayes, of the sloop Sally of this
port, was to come paflenger—he further
informs, that he saw a brig yesterday
morning, coming into the Capes.—
* In the 3d column firft page —7th line
of this paper, for frequently read perfectly.
For Norfolk & Fredericksburgb,
LITTLE^SALLY,
John Earl, Matter.
A ltaunch good veflel, will fail in a few
days. For freight or psflage, apply to the
mailer on board at Chefnut fireet wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONT tf SON.
March 31
NEW THEATRE.
this Evening,
March 3 I ,
Will be performed,
A -TRAGEDY, caikd the
Grecian Daughter.
Evander, Mr. Whitlock
Philctas,
Melanthon,
Pliocion,
Dionvfms,
Galippus,
Areas,
Greek Herjild,
Euphrafia,
Erixene,
End of the Tragedy,
A Pantomimical Dance, called
The' Sailors Landlady i
OR
Jack in Distress.
To which will be added,
A FARCE, in two acSs, called.
The Spoil'd Child.
Little Pickle.
Old Pickle,
Tag,
John,
Thomas,
Milt. Pickle,
Maria,
Margery,
Susan,
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to
fend their l'ervants to keep places, at half an
hour pall 4 o'clock, and to order them td
withdraw, as loon as the company are seated,
as they cannot on any account be permitted
to remain in the boxes, nor any piaCts kept
after the firft adt.
No places can be let in the fide boxes for a
less number than eight, nor places re
tained after the firft ail.
The -Doors will be opened at 5 o'clock,
and the performances begin at 6 o'clock pre-"
cifely.
* As inconveniences to the public have
arisen from the Bex book being open on the
days of performance only, in future attend
ance will be given at the office in the Theatre
every day from ten 'till one, and on the days
of performance from ten till three o'clock in
the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, itis
refpe<ftfully requeued, may be addrell'ed, to
Mr. Franklin, at the BoxC'ffice.
Places in the Boxes to be taken at the Box-
Office of the Theatre, at any hour from nine,
in the morning till three o'clock in the after
noon, en the day of performance. Tickets
to be had at the office near the Theatre, at
the corner of Sixth-ftreet,and at Can- & Go's
Muficalßepofitory, No. 122, Market-street
Boxes, one dollar —Pitt, three quarters
of a dollar —and Gallery, half a dollar.
ADVERTISEMENT.
To the diitrefied inhabitants of St. Do-
mingo now in Philadelphia.
The dillribution of the money allotted to
them will be made on Wednesday next, at tfcc
south-West corner of WalnutandWater ftrecU
from nine V clock 'till noon, and from three
to five afternoon.
Aux Habitants de St- Domingue de nu£s
de toute faculty a Philadelphie.
La Diftributioti de la fomme accordee fe sera
tylecrcdi prochain, au Coin de!a Rue fud oueft
de 1' EaU &De la Rue de Walnut, cmre neuf
heures& niidi & de trois &Cinque apres midi.
(f3T The Printers of Philadelphia, are re»
quested to republilb the above. -
dtf"
Mr. Moreton
. Mr. Green
Mr. Cleveland
Mr. Fennel
Mr. Warrell
Mr. Francis
Mr. Harwood
Mrs. Whitiock
Mrs. Cleveland
Mrs. Marfliall
Mr. Finch
Mr. Francis
Mr. Bliffet
Mr. Darl y jun.
Mrs. Kop'fon
Mrs. Cleveland
Mr. Bate 3
Miss. WiliemsIn the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of'the United States.
All commissions or authorizati6ns tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to he returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indjvifible
( March 6th, 1794. o. s.)
The Mimller Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are requested to repilbiilh the
foregoing notice. d
NORRIS- COURT,
Back of the New Li jivy, betwees Chelnut
and Walm :-Streets
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLYi nforms his friends and
the ('(folic in general, that lie continues
carrying on the bafiiier* of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL A:TES,
for doors or wiudow-Jhutters,don& in tne most
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December ctff
TO BE SOLD,
And entered upon the fiift ot May,
The noted EJlate, called
Johnson Hall:
Lying m the Moha w«c country, (late of New
York, formerly the feat of Sir William John
son, containing about seven hundred acres of
land, .which is of the very best quality ; toge
ther with theftock, and farming tftenftls. The
buildings are large and convenient, and (it for
a gentleman's feat. The payments will be made
easy, on good security. Forfui th'er particulars
enquire of George Metcaff, Esq. on the preittif
es, of Silas. Talbot, Esq. alt Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Brothers, in New York, or
of the fubferiber in Providence.
Jabe z Bow en.
Philid. March 26
PROPOSALS
FOR. publishing by subscription,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from atonal survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo. (
THIS Piau will be engraved oil a plate 26
inches square ; and it will cuntaia an ex
att defenption of all the squares, (Ireets and
alleys in the Cuy .and l-ibrrne.. The (uuation
of the leveral public buiid'ngr, such at the State-
House, Gity-H»ll, Seat ot Congress, Churches,
Meeting-Houses, Hospital, Library and Semina
ries of Learning—ot the leveral Banks, and ot
. the Federal and State Offices, will be ascertained.
The parts which are built on will be diftinguilh
cd fiom those that are not. Theeourfrs of the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
a 8 much of the Canal, intended to connect the
navigation of rhefe two water*, as lies within
the oompafs of the draught', will be accurately
delineated. It will alf» be ornamented by a
view of the (hipping in the halbor, and an ele
vation of Congress-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In (hort, nothing will beomitied to render this
ufeful and dcfirable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power :
and it (hall be compleated with the greatest
possible dtfpatch, as soon as the generous encon
ragement of fubferiber s (hall insure to the author
such a sum as will be fuificicnt to delray ex
pencej.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the SubferibcM names, and information con
cerning the police, population and present state
of the city.
The price to fubfcriben will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at the time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Subscriptions will be gratefully received at
the principal Book<ellers iu this, city—and the
original Draft may be seen at B. Davies',
No. 68, Market-ftrcct, at any time until icftiall
be put into the hands of the Engraver.
Feb. 28. m&thtf
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying,
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, a? well as
thpfe of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
fhoi ted notice, all kinds of pleafnre carriages,,
such as coaches, chariots, phietons With and
withoat crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windier fulkeytard chairs, and barnefs
ofevery description, irt the neatest and neweft
fcjlhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the bed seasoned
wood by- him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaftion to those whopleafe to employ hini
He has for sale, feverat carriages almost
finithed, fucb as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaeton for
one or two horses, and a lulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
Philadelphia-, Jan. 6, 1794- m&th3m
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Qround,
TNart eligible fituation,->-alfo a Country Seat
X within 6 miles of t''c City, with 9 acres of
land, or 41 acres of land and meadow, the
Houf£ is not many in the vicinity
of the city, in size' dr convenience.
For terms apply t» the printer.
January 23.
JUST PUBLISHED,
M.Carey,No. i
The PROMPTER;
Commentajct oh Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the bejlfenfeiti the world.
THIS little book is written in a (lile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, a*
well as to a4l claffcs of people, merchant?, me
chanics and farmer*. Such,a reputation hat this
work acquired; that it has parted thro three un
preflions in the eailem states, and many houle
holders deem it so ufeful as to purghafe a copy
for every adult in then families. Price 24.
February » dtt
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
THE Hiitory of New-Hampftvire, from the
Discovery of the River Pifcataqua—by Je
remiah Belknap, D. D. 3 Vols. Price-in Boards,
4 I -2 Dollars.
The Forreftcr, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Clothier.
Prce, 75 Cents.
A Dilcourfe, intended to commemorate the
Discovery ot America by ChriAopher Colum
bus; delivered at the request of the Historical
Society in MafTachufetts, October 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Thud Century,
fmce that memorable event. To which are
added, Four Dissertations, connected with the
fubjeft—By the fame author. Puce, 50 Cents.
March 17. ' tutn&^w
Just Published,
m*&fim
In one handsome volume, nmo. Price 5»
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Second
Street, ,
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Corredtd and Enlarged?
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
Profeflir of Moral Philo(ophy_ and the Law
of Nature, and of Ecclesiastical Hiflor.j ;
and Minister of the Englilh Church at U
trecht. *
Aliquid semper ad conimunem utilitatem af
ferendum. Cicero.
The Firjl American Edition.
THE grand principle of Eqnality, if right
ly tinderftood, is the only basis 011 which
universal justice, sacred order, and. peffeft
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The view of it exhibited in this
eflay, at the fame time that it reprefles tbc
insolence of office, the tyranny of pride, aid
the outrages of oppreflion ; confirms, in the
mod forcible manner, the necessity of fnbor
dination, and the just demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loofeniog the
bands of fbciety, tlrat it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftinftioti,
draws more closely every social tie, unites in
one harmonious and justly proportioned fyf
tem, and brings men together 011 the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Qrandon, from
St. Peterlburg in Russia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUGK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR. SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
March 4,1794.
The Admirers of Sacred Music
are refpedtfully informed, that One or more
Performances from the most approved
Parts of Handel's Works,
from the Messiah) will be given
in the week preceding Easter Sunday, (com
monly called Passion week)
As every ability in the Instrumental and
Vocal Line will be called forth <>11 this occail
on, there is no doubt, but that a Liberal Pub
lic will take the present undertaking under
their protection.
N. B- Part of the Profits will be appropri
ated to thls ule of a public charity.
A particular description of the Place, Se
lection, &c. will be given as soon as ihe neces
sary arrangements can be fettled.
March 39.
TO BE SOLD,
m&tli—tt
AMD fOK SAL I BY
Lately, Publilhed.
AND FOR. SALE BY
AN ESSAY ON THE
D. D.
eodlwtu&ftf
No. 12, Wahiut-ftreet.
diw3tawtf
IMPORTED
lit the Brig George and Harriot, fr»m
Havre de Grace,
m »» sale mr
Louis OJmont,
a Perfect
Aftortment of Hanging, Paper,
high coloured and plain.
White fi';k Stocking*, high dressed and put
up English fafhion.
The handsomest artificial Flowers and Fea
thers.
Some Looking Glass Plates to be ToW by
cale.
A tew hampers of Champaigne wine fix
years old.
ALSO,
An elegant parcel- of
Bearskin Muffs,
And very beautiful Silk Cloaks, which on
account of the fealon will be fold low, and at
a long credit.
LIKEWISE
42 pipes Madeira wine,
and a few calks of Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
He will hane for sale,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn hats, fans arid cambricks, claret in
caies, a quantity of window glass well sort
ed of all fizej and a few pair of remarkable
Looking Glafres framed, all arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
March 22. dtf
War Department.
'January 30th 1794.
INFORMATION 1% heieoy given to ail the
military invalids of the United State*,that the
sums te which they are entitled lor fix months
ot their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on 'he jth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Coinmiflioiiers of the Loan*
within the Hates refptrflivcly, ttnderthe usual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and adminiftratois
muil be accompanud with legal evidence ol
their offices, and also ol the time the
invalids died, whofc pension they may claim.
By command of 1 h.- Prriidint
of the t'nited S'a:r<,
Secretary oj War,
(£T The printers in (he relurctive are
reqiufted to pubhfh the above in their newfpa
pm for the Ipacc ol iwo months.
January 30.
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the Houfc of Representatives,
December 2111, 1793,
WHEREAS the GommiHiouers of public
Accounts, hvVe reported, that they cao T
nor proceed to the in* eftigation of ine Treasury
Accounts, refpc&ing Ipvcial Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
cui<»t»on 'Therefore,
Refoived, That all holders of fpeeial Indents
be dwedird, and requirca, on aj before-.the flrll
day of November mxt,io deliver ihc tpcciai in
dents in their poflYdum to one or<»iherol the
Comnuflioucis of the Treafuiy, who to give
receipts for the fame, and to report to fbeCotn
miflioners on public accounts, on or belme the
troth day of November next, the amount by
them refpe&ively received, and also to the Le
gifhture, at their meeting in November next,
and.that all.special Indents not tendered into
the Treafuiy as above, on or before .the fir ft day
of November next, ihall be, ami the fame aie
hen by barred.
Rcfolvea\ That public notice of thjs resolution
be given in the feveraf Gazettes in this .State,
once every three weeks, unul the fir It day of
November next. And 'hat ;he De legate&of this
State in the Congress of the United States, be re*,
qnetted to caufe-tbis rdolunon to be publvthed
in one or more papers in the cities of Fhiladcl.
phia and New-York, and thai proviliosi.wiil be
made tor the ex pences attending such publica
tion.
That the refolufion be Cent to. the
Senate for their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SANFORD DART, C. H. R.
In the SENATE,
Dkcembik 21(1.1793.
Rcfolvtd, That this House Ao concur wnh x+rc
Houlc of Repi'efcntatives in the foregoing refo
luirons.
Ordered, That the resolutions be lent lo the
House o( Kepreteoiauvt &.
by order nf thr Seiwte,
FELIX WA.RLEY, Clerk,
ewtN'o'.
For Sale b) the Subfcribcrs,
MUSCOVADO Sugar in hhds. & bbtl.
Hyson and Souchong Teas,
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, in pipes
and quarter caJks.
Spanilh Indigo.
Boston Beef, in barrels.
And a small invoice of Muslins,
NALBRO' & JOHN FRAZIER,
No. 164, South Front-ftt-eet.
March 8.
CTj* This Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement—The Subfcrrption
encrenfes daily—lAdoertifing Favors are
foliated —These con utute an ejftmtia! Item
in dimimjbing the Debit fide cf the Accvuzt.
Writing
ON SIGN-BOA RJ)S, JAP A NWD
• PLATES, bv.
Done ia the ffioi! elegant irumncr, ami after
the firil mafflers; !ikevrife,
Painted and finifhed 21 the StorteiS notice, tre
GEORGE RUTTER, "
In Norris's Court, hack of the New Library,
between Chefcut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth fireets.
March 4.
Agreeably to the hit Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, de-eafeil,
The House N°. 245,
On which it stands, wherein James Biddle
THE Honfe being 18 feet 10 inches in
Front on Msrkct-ftreer, and the Lot
117 feet Seep. The whole will be fold fub
je«sl to a ground rent of twelve pound; per
annum, payable-to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their fucceSbrs
fosever. For terms apply to
Samdel Coates,
Jonathan Jomfs,
Aktho*y Motxis,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morm, dcc'd.
*eop 3W
scheme of a Lottery,
To raifc 39,900 Dollars, on 266,p00
Dollarj, dtduSing IJ per Cent, from
the Prizes—this Lottery confijlt of
38,000 Tickets, in •which there are
1 4,539 Priu.cs aud 23,461 Blanks,
being about one. and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Dirc&orsof she Society for eflablifhing
Ufeful Manuta&ures, having resolved lo
cvc6l LOTTER lES tor raising Ox eHuno reo
Thousand.Dol laks, agreeably 10 an Ast of
the Lt gifl <torc of th* Slate of New- Jeifcy, have
appointed the fallowing persons to superintend
and direst the drawing of the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rnfus King, Herman Lc Roy, James
Watlon, Richard Hanifon, Abijah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city ot New-Yoik
Thomas Willing, J»feph Ball, Matthew M'Con
nel and' Andrew Bayard, of the ci*y of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
KJits ftopdmot, General Ela& Dayton, Jam<»
Parker, John Bayard, D<>&or Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton,' Jottrti® M. Walhce, Jofrph
Bloonvfield, and Elifha Boudinot, of N< w-]er
fey, who offcj the following Scheme of a Lot
tery, and pledge themfelvea to the public, that
they will every aflurance and precaution in
power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from tinae to time, 9% received, into
tire Banks at and Philadelphia, t?
remain for the purpofeof paying Priz s, which
shall be immediacy discharged by a check
npon otlfi of ihf Banks.
H. KNOX,
1
2
5
10
CO
XOO
300
lOQO
2000
3000
8100
1 4»539 Prizes.
23,461 Blanks. First drawn nunjtoer, 2,000
k . Last drawn number, 2,000
38,000
The drawing will commence, under the in
fpe&ion of a Committee of the Superintendams,
as soon as the Tickets are fold, ot which.timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendants have appointed John N.
Gumming, of Newark, Jacob R. Hardenbrrg,
of Nbw-ffrunfwitk l , and Jonathan Rhea, of
Trenton,. immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample fecjunty tor dtfeharging the
trust fepofed in them.
In order to fee nix the puri&ual payment
of the Prizes, the Superintend ants of the Lottery
have dire&ed that the Managers (hall each enter
into bonds in 4C,ooo.dollai s, with foiir fufficient
fccuruies, *to perform their iHftiu&ions, the fub
itance of which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
shall receive thefum of Tknee Hundred Dollars,
he shall imnidi«riely plaCe-tbe-i»me-in-one*of the
Banks of New-Yoik or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit of the Oqveinor-of the Society, and such
of the Superin:end«tmsas I've in the city where
the monies are to remain thereuntil t-he
Lottery is drswn, for inc payment of the Prize?.
11. The Managers to take fufficient lecurity
for any Ticketi they may trust, otherwise to b?
rclponnble for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickels fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, an
il* acts of which shall be few, monthly., to the
Governor of the Spciety.
Pater ion, January 1, 1704.
On application to either of the above gentle
men, ioiorrn.at.ion will be given where tickets
m,av be had.
fmw4w
PHILADELPHIA : ■
Phinted by JOHN FENNO, No
Fire Buckets
70 BE SOLD,
AND
Lot of Ground
now lives, on. the ninth fi<fe r of Market
ftreet, near Sixth-street.
March i, 1794.
SCHEME:
i Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 2©,0c0
10,000
5.090.
2,000
I,ooa
500
a 90
6°
20
1 5
12
Ijo.
Tickcts at 7 DolJars each is 266.000
February 24.
South Fourth-Street.
%
10,000
10,000
10,000
ao,ooo
l«»QOO
a 0,000
1 6» oc^>
20.000
30,000
36,000
81.000
262,000
trr&ftf.