of tfee (ll mtth
EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 59 of Vol. V.]
TJ/JS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Srnjie No. 41, South Srouid-ftrcet,
(Price three-eighths of a dJllar)
THE
Speeches of Mr. Smiih,
OF SOUTH-CAROLINA.
Delivered in the ff-»ule ot Rcpiefeiitativcs cf
the United States, in January, 1794. on the fub
je(l of certain Commc* ci A l Regulations,
proposed by Mr. Madisos, in thr committee
of the whole, on the report of the Secretary of
Suit.
To which is annexed >
A TABLE, exhibiting the Compa
rative footing 0: the Commerce ot the
United States, with the D 'minions of France
and Great-Britain, piior to the pending Revo
lution of Franrr.
FOR SALE',
By MATHFW CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery:
D«.Twnrd to « m * ihw pru;' t»J viiw,
in flfffit nn ?r.;i the p'-u 3,'
foc:ety. S->nu ';i£ls -i. •' •r.V'Cnlc 1 <
so wMvr the lal»" oi * jyv t *i,- ro be mi.e:. tn mc
produtfivt than th*t 01 Jlare< ; that couoirici arc
«'ch, poweifu! and happy, >.n p«opovt*on a* the
labonng peonle e«y*y the fruits'of tbrir own
lal>or ; and hci.ct- the 11 c« (Ta<y eonclnficn. that
(l«v*ry is impolitic a? well s vnyjfi.
Price 25 Cents.
F<'brii.t«> 15.
l^ally 's Hotel.
GIFFORB DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City ¥ai*ern 9 and
of the Merchant's Coffee-Hqufi of this
City
RLSPECTFTJI-LY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Sh?ppc*-Str«L be
tween iKi{4 and K<Hi*th-S>rcris, at thr Hoiife
formerly occup cd by Mr. Timmbns, wh:ch
ti»s lately been gieaily improved, and is now
very coin mod cus ; where he has tomilhed him
f.U with ihr bell of LtOUpRS, «r. i v. .11 ItTr
ni(h a TABLt for with ihr heft provi
sions the Markets afford, at any h^ur r ou the
thoneft notice. Front his long experience 'n
this line ot bufincfs, ht hiip(«\li b c
be able t«» give U(isU&ion to all wno n»ay pie«jfc
Id favor hirn with their company.
Pbiladclnhia, January 29. 179,
THE Trufteesof an Academy,
or any individual wilhing to engage a
per on to foperintend the Education of youth,
in the comic of Ityrties ytualW adopted iu
Academies, or any branch of" bulinels requ r
ii;g fimiUr qualifications, may open a com
munication with a person willing to be em
ployed a few year«; (tor a generous coinnenfa
tion) by writing (ietters to be polt paid) to
Mr. John Fenno, Philadelphia.
(f3T Printers to the Southward would boflibly
obhgc feme qJ tkeirfrtcr.ds, by mjcrnng thejotegeing
* Jew times if fair fa* perj.
February 8. dix*
Parry and IV! ufgrave }
Goldfnutbs & jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant Afjortment of
SILVER fcf PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY'&fm CUTLERY,
W-'icfc the* wil difpnlc of qr the molt rca
fonab'.e te ins. Devices in hair, Miniatures
fevt, and every thing in the gold and lilver
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegantHoufe,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible lituotion,—alfo a Country Seat
within 6 miles of t lie City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of* lard and meadow, the
Houle is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
cnoe,
January 23.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. t6. WaM-fticet, New-York.
THESubfcnber intending 10 confine- h'mfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b«gs leave to of
f.l his fervicesto his frunds and other?, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Thofc who may plcafe
10 favor him with their business, may d p' nd
upon having it transacted wiih the u;n»ofl fide
lity ar.d difpaich.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boftnn, or any
otfu*r part of the United State-, will I f ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD 3LEECKER.
Wednesday, February 19, 1794.
Jamaica ,Jf.
jjri Ail for giving validity in this IJland to
Probates to be. taken ? by certain OJficers
in the- United States of America, of D'eds
tn be there executed, and alfv to ExempH
jjcations of Wills tbrrj proved.
T \ r HERE AS, fmce the fq*aratson from the !
V y crown of. Great-Britain of the late co
lcnis?, no\c called the United States of Ame
nqa, great inconveniences have arisen to many
of his !\saielty's fubie&s occasionally refining
in thole States, for \vant of a legal provificn
rel*pe<f\»ng the probates and acknowledgments
of deeds executed in the laid States, and in
tended to operate in this ifiand-: For remedy
whereof, we, your Majeftv's dutiful and loyal
fubje&s, the Lieutenant-Governor, Council,
and Aflembly of this your Majesty's ifiand of
Jamaica, humbly beseech your Majesty that
it may be ena&ed ; Be it therefore ena&ed,
and it is herebv ena'&ed and ordained by the
authority of t&e fame, That, from and im
mediately after the pafnng of this ac*, any
cunvevance, letter of attorney, or other deed
whatsoever, WV.ch (hall Tie hereafter executed
in any of'the United, St? tes of America, and
fluU be prpved by a Cublcribiyg witness, or
acknowledged by the party or parties, before
a*»y of his iylajefly's Consuls or Vice-Consuls
needing in any of those States, or before the
Chief j uliice of any cf the said, States, or be
fore die Chief Justice or any cf the Judges of
the Supreme Court of the said United States,
aud certified under the leal of anv of the said
Stiles, or the fcal of the said United States,
lhail be, and the lame is hereby declared to
he, as good and effe<shiai in the law as if such
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed,
3nd been rcipedively proved or acknowledged
before a Judge of any court of record in this
iiiand ; any law, cuftorh, or ufajje, to the con
trary notwithftandjrig : —Provided always,
That in all cases wherein the right or property
of any woman under coverture \s intended
to be ccnveved, Ihe {hall be examined
and apart from her huiband, by the Judgs
who attests the probate, and the said examina
tion £)>aU be certified up. like manner as is prac
tised in Qre.u-Bi.itain or in this Ifl,and.
11. And be it further ena&edbv the autho
rity aforesaid, That the probate of any last
will and testament, taken before any officer
authorized to take probates of wills in any of
the said States, and exemplified under the
seal of the State where such probate lhali have
been taken, shall be, and the fame is hereby
declared to be, as good and effectual in the
law, as if such probate had been taken before
the ordinary of this island ; any law, custom,
or ullge, to the contrary in any wife notwith
ftandirig.
Pajfed the AJJembly ibis 12tb day of Novem'
Iter, i79.Tr
BLAKE, Speaker.
J ajfedtbe Council, this \\tb November, 1793.
G.ATKINSON, CL Council.
I consent-, this $tb December> 1793*
ADAM WILLIAMSON.
Fm? extur. G. Atkinson,
* 4fc * The American Printers fre requeued
to publilh this ail in their several new (papers.
City Commiflioners Office,
'January 30, 1794-
T M purfuanee of a Refo'.ve of the Common
i Council, d«ted the 20th day of January,
1794, for dividing the City into five Diftfids,
b) fines drawn F.aft and Weft, whereof each of
tke City Comrr.ifljonns is t<» trkc the fuperin
tendznee of one of the said Dillr &», and to be
accountable lor the clear.sing, good order and
regularity of the fame.
The CommifConers have accordingly made
the following arrangement for'the prefer.!:
Diflrift the \JI. N'a-han Boys, to have the
charge of that part of the ftreeu, lanes and alleys
from Ccdar-ftreet, to the north fide of Spruce
ftteet.
mw&:ftf
Dtfliid the id. Huj»h Roberts,from the north
fid- ct J>prucc-ltrcct to the oortb fide «f Walnut
street,
Dijirifl the 3d. Jofrph Clavpoole, from the
north fioc of Walnut to the iouth tide ot High
ftrcet.
m&th—tf
fiijliifl toe 4M. William Moulder, from the
north (ide oi to the north fide of Mulberry
street
DiJlriß the §th. Nicholas Hicks, from the
north Tide ot Mulberry, to the north fide of V«ne
flrect.
t.xboQ Jrowi the Minut'S,
N B. The carriage wajr in Markrt-ftreet, is
under the charge ot the Commifli >ners grncrally*
for the present, the foot-wavs on tbe north and
south fides thereof, are connefled with the ad
joining DiUtiti* rvfpe&ively.
AND
JOHN MEASE, CM.
UNITED STATES.
HALIFAX, (N.C.) Feb. 5.
In General AJJanblj—J an - H> 1 794-
Mr. Steele from the committee to whom
was referred a meflage frum his Excellen
cy the Governor, together with sundry
resolutions of the Legislature of South-
Carolina, and a proclamation of the Go
vernor of that State, concerning the con
duit of certain citizens of the United
States, in accepting commissions under
the authority of the French Republic, to
enlilt men within the limits of the United
States, moved the following resolutions,
which were considered, and agreed to by
both houses:
Refolvcd, That 'lis Excellency the Go
vernor be, and hi is hereby rcquefted to
iilue a proclamation, cautioning the good
people of this .State against practices so
incompatible with the principles of neu
trality, and which if permitted or indul
ged would inevitably involve this country
in confufion and disorder.
Rcfotved, That it is, in the opinion of
this General Afiembly, the duty of all
officers, civil and military, within this
State, to use all reasonable and legal
means to prevent the enlisting of men or
troops for any foreign power, within the
ju,rifditiion of this State ; and that if such
attempts be made after the publication of
the proclamation of the Governor, that
tj)e persons so offending ought to be pro
ceeded againlt as disturbers of the public
tranquility, and as enemies to the peace
and happiness of their country.
RICHMOND, February 5.
In tie House of DiUgatu, ( Virginia) De-
cembtr TO, 1793-
Reiblved, That the Executive be re
quested and empowered to draw out of
the Public Treasury, all the cut silver
coin which (hall be therein on the firft day
of March next, and have the fame coined
at the Mist of the United States, into
half dimes or five cent pieces for the use of
the Common weal tli.
December 11, 1793.
Agreed to by the Senate.
BALTIMORE, February 12,
Yellerday being the Birth Day of our
Illustrious Pirfident, the company of vo
lunteers under the command of Captain
Thompson, paraded through the several
streets, accoutred in complete uniform,
and made a brilliant appearance. After
performing a variety of evolutions in ho
nor of the day, they proceeded to Mr.
Gray's garden, at Chatfworth, where an
elegant dinner was provided for them.
And a number of toasts drank suited to
the occasion.
Congress of the United States.
IN SENATE,
Wednefdav, February 12.
On motion,
Ordered, That the Secretary for the
department of the treasury report on the
petition of Arthur Hughes, referred to
him the 9th of November 1792, by the
Senate.
The petition of Francis Mentges, late
a lieutenant colonel in the Pennsylvania
line, was presented and read, praying
compensation for ferrices rendered the U
nited States.
On motion,
That the petition be referred to the
Secretary for the department of war.
It pasTed in the negative.
On motion,
That the confederation of the report of
the committee on the petition of Conrad
Laub and others, reflecting the appoint
ment of Mr. Gallatin to be a Senator of
the the United States, be postponed until
Monday next.
It pafled in the affirmative.
Mr. Vining from the joint committee
on enrolled bilk reported, that they did
Ipfalts
[Whole No. 5 17.]
yesterday lay before the President of the
United States for his approbation, the
enrolled b!U, entitled, " An ast providing
for the relief of such of the inhabitants of
Saint Domingo, resident within the U
nited States, as may be found in want of
support."
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk :
" Mr. President, The House ef Re
presentatives have passed a bill, entitled,
"An ast for the relief of Thomas Jen
kins and Sons" in which they desire the
concurrence of the Senate.
" The President of the United States
hath notified the House of Representatives
that he did this day approve and sign,
" An ast providing for the relief of such
of the inhabitants of Saint Domingo, re
sident within tke United States, as may
be found in want of support," And he
withdrew.
The bill sent from the House of Repre
sentatives for concurrence, entitled, " An
ast for the relief of Thomas Jenkins and
Sons," was read the firfl time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
The bill " in addition to the ast for
the punishment of certain crimes against
the United States," was read the second
time, and after debate,
Ordered, That the further considera
tion thereof, be postponed.
The Senate adjourned to II o'clock
to-morrow morning.
Thursday, February 13th, 1794.
The bill sent from the House of Re
presentatives for coocunence, entitled,
" An ast for the relief of Thomas Jenkins
and sons," was read the second time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the
third reading.
The Senate resumed the second reading
of the bill " in addition to the ast for the
puuilhment of certain crimes againll the
United States," and after debate, the
further consideration thereof was postpo
ned.
Mr. Burr from the committee, to whom
was referred the meflage from the Presi
dent of the United States, of the 30th of
December last, reported a bill, " autho
rizing and dire&ing the settlement of the
accounts of Major General La Fayette,
which was read the firft time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
The report of a feieft committee on
tbe petition of William Smith cf Mary
land was taken up, and after debate a de
cision was postponed.
This petitioa was for compensation for
sundry loan-office certificates ifiued in
Georgia at a time when there was no loan
officer in that state.
The Pod-Office business was then tak
en up in committee of the whole. A vast
number of new poll roads were ordered,
without opposition. The committee then
came to the consideration of that part of
the report which relates to newspapers,
and it was moved, that the pottages of
them {hould be reduced to half a cent to
dittances not exceeding 100 miles, and
one cent for any greater di'iance. This
was advocated on the ground, that newspa
pers from the feat of government and the
large towns mutt convey more complete
information than feledions from them by
country printeis in weekly papers, and
that the editors of them not only poff«*ft
more ample means of information ; but
are generally better informed. The mo
tion was opposed, from a wish to encou
rage country prefles, whose papers, it
was laid, did not lose on a comparison
with the wretched productions of the me
tropolis The committee rose without
taking a quetlion, and the House adjourn
ed.
House of Reprefentativct,
February 17,CONGRESS
House of Reprtfcjiialrucs
January 27,
In of 1 hi' on tVIr,
refAuiiotis
(Mr. Ames's Speech conclnM.)
Thus we fee a total stoppage of the Weft-India
mde W9IIIII notlla:ye the ilianders. It would uf
fe it us deeply, we ihould lose t!ie laic ofour products
and of courfenol gain the carri i««* in our own vef
l*e!•». The object o'. the contelV would be ho nearer
0 rr*aeh than before. Inrteud, however ot a totd
itippi»e of the intercourse, it might happen that
e .ch nation prohrMting the vefTclbol the oilier, some
tinrd nation would carry on the traffic in its own
bottoms While this meafuie would disarm our iyf
tem, it would make it recoil upon oarffclve®. It
would in etfec^operate chiefly to o'bltru t the file
of ourpoJu-ts. Iftheyfhodd remain unfjld, it
would bi so much dead lot's ; or if the ertvft should
1 e to r .ii'e rhe prh© on she confumeis, it would ei
ther Icli'jfi the confur.iption or raise up rivals in the
foppiy. The coutift as it rcfpe&s tlx: Welt India
trade is inc.?;; icl'pedt agufnil us. To embairafs
thefupply from' the United States, supposing the
wr>rft as it regards rhe planters, can no no more than
enh ince the price 01 sugar and tortv e T( afi}l other pro*
dji.'ls. The French i(lands ate now in ruins, and
the Kn?.!i!h piantcf.; !;.iv;an increased price and do'u.
b'le demand n> coiifetfiieftce. While Great-Britain
confined the c<>loi>y trade' to frerl'elf, (he eave to the
cola litlvin return a monopoly in' her consumption
6f Weft-India articles. The extra expence arising
from the severest operation of our fyrtem, is already
provided againlttwo-i'old : Like other chaigcs on
tiie prod ni\s of labor and capital, the burden will
tall on the conlumer. The luxurious and opulent
co -.fumer in Europe will r.ot regard and perhaps
WiU not know the incre.i fe of price nor the caufc of
it. "IV ;>;\v fmler whv> clears iris land and fells
l!ic lumber, will feel anv cOnvuifion in the m?rket,
m i'enlihly without being able to fnfturn it at all.
Tr is a cbmctV of Wealfh against want; of felf-denial,
between l-ixury and daily subsistence, that we pro
voke with so much Confidence of fucctfs. A man of
experience in the Weft-India trade will fee thiscon
triit more llron*lv than it.is poflible. to represent it.
One of the excellencies for which the
measure is recommended is, that it will
affect our imports. What is offered as
an argument is really an objection. Who
will mpply our wants ? Oar own manu
fa&iifes are growing, and it is a subject
of "/ a? fatisfaction that they are. But
it wo"ld he wrong to overrate their capa-
city t > cloAthe usl The fame number of
inhabitants require more and more, be;-
err.if? wealth incrtafes. Add to this the
vapid grown of our numbers, and per
haps it will be correct' to tlliihate the pro
gress of <nartufiicliirersi as only keeping
pace with that of our enereafing confump
t:on and population. It follows that we
Hi nil continue to demand in future to the
amount of our present importation. It is
not intended by the resolutions that we
fliall import from England. Holland, and
the. north of Europe do not furnifh a fuf
ticient varietv, or fufficient quantity for
our Coufuniption. It is in vain to look to
Spain, Portugal, and the Italian States.
We are expeeled to depend principally
upon France ;• it is impoflible to examine
the ground of this dependance without
adverting to the present lituation of that
country. It is a fubjeft upon which I
praftife no difgaifes. but I do not think it
proper to introduce the politics of France
into this discussion. If others can find in
the scenes that pas* there, or in the prin
ciples and agents that drreft them, proper
fubjefts for amiable names and fourccs of
joy and hope m the profpefl:, 1 have no
thing to fay to it. It is an amusement
which it is net in my intention either to
dilturb or to partake of. I turn from these
horrors to examine the condition of France
in refpeft to manufa&uringy capital, and
jnduftrv. In this point of view, whatever
political improvements may be hoped for,
it cannot escape observation, that it pre
sents only a wide field of wade and desola
tion. Capital, which nfed to be food for
mantifaftmes, is become ther fuel. What
once nourished industry, now lights the
fires of civil war, and quickens the pro
grefsof deftrudtion. France is like a fliip
with a fine caTgo burning to the water's
edge, (he may be built upon anew, and
freighted with another cargo, and it will
he time enough when that (hall be, to de
pend on a part of it for our fapplv : at
present, and for many years, (lie will be
not fe much a furnifiier as a confunier. It
is therefore obvious, that we (hall import
our supplies either diredtly or iirdireftly
from Great Britain. Any obftrudtion to
tlie importation, will ruin the price which
we, who consume must bear.
That part of the argument which rests
on the supposed diflrefs of the British ma
luifaifhirerß m consequence of the loss of
our market, is in every view unfounded.
They would not lofc tht market in fact,
and if they diu,. should we prodigiously
exaggarate the importance of our con.
sumption to the Briti(h workmen ? Im.
portant it doubtless is, but a little attenti
on will expose the extrenk folly of the o
pinion, that they would be brought to our
feet by a trial of our felf denying fpirk.
England now fujJphmfs France in the im
portant Levant trade, in the supply of
manufa£tured goods to the East and in a
great m> afure to the Well-Indies, to
Spain, Portugal, and their dependencies.
Iler trade with Rufifia has of late vastly
encreafed ; and (lie is treating for a trade
with China—lo that the new demands of
English manufactures, consequent upon
the deprefiion of France as a rival, has a
mounted to much more than the whole A
merican importation, which is not three
Madifon*s
millions.
British manufactures exported Sterling.
ia 1773, amounted to
r 775>
1789,
179°,
1791, r6,tf 10,000
r7 $2, 18,310,000
The ill efFedt of a fyftein of reft ri£t ion
and prohibition in the Well Indies has
been noticed already. The privileges al
lowed to our exports to England may be
withdrawn, and prohibitory or high du
ties imposed. Mr. Ames observed that
not ore o? our articles is a monopoly,and
noticed the effe£t of counter regulations
on our produdls. He adverted particu
larly to pot and pearl ashes, and observed
on- the value of the ex ten five sale of that
article, aa it advances the clearing and
fettlcment of our new lands ; he said the
best encouragement for agriculture is a
good market.
The system before us is a ir.ifchief that
goes to the roct of our prosperity. The
merchants will fuffer by the schemes and
projects of a new theory'. Great nura
bers were deceived by the convulsions of
177 J. They are an order of citizens de
ferring better of government, than to be
involved in new coniufions. It is wrong
to make our trade wage war for our poli
tics. It is now scarcely said that it is a
thing to be fought for but a weapon to
fight with. To gain our approbation to
the fvllcm, we are told it is to be gradu
ally efiablilhed : in that cafe, it will be
unavailing. It fliould be begun with in
all its strength, if we think of l'larving
the iflamls. Drive them suddenly and by
surprize to extremity, if you would dic
tate terms, but they will prepare against a
long expected failure of our supplies.
Our nation tired of fuffering
loss and embarrsfsment for the French.
The rice growers and tobacco planters of
the south, will be, and ought to be, soon
weary of a contest which they are told is
to benefit the (hip ownerß of the east. The
struggle so painful to ourselves, so ineffec
tual against England, will be renounced,
and we (hall fit down with fame and loss
with disappointed passions and aggravated
complaints. War, which would then suit j
our feelings, would not suit our wesknefs.
We might peahrps find some European
power willing to make war on England,
and we might be permitted by a short alli
ance to partake the misery and the de
pendance of being a subaltern in the quar
rel. The happiness of this situation seems
to be in view when the system before us
is avowed to be the instrument of avenging
our political resentments. Thsfe who af
fect to-dread foreign irifluence will do well
to avoid a partnership in EHropeanjealou
cies and riralfhips. Courting the fritnd
fhip of the one, and provoking the hatred
cf the other, is dangerous to our real in
dependence ; for it would compel Ameri
ca to threw herfelf into the arms of the
one for prote&ion against the other. Then
foreign influence, pernicious as it is, would
be fought for, and though it (hould be
shunned, it could not be resisted. The
connections of trade form ties between in
dividuals and produce little controul over
government. They are the ties of peace,
and are neither corrupt nor corrupting.
In the course of his speech, Mr. Ames
adverted to the danger of cutting off a part
of the public revenue by the operation of
the proposed regulations.
He remarked upon the hostile tendency
of the resolutions ; we have happily es
caped from a state of the moll imminent
danger to odr peace. A falfe Hep would
lose all the security for its continuance
which we owe at this moment to the con
duit of the President. What is to save
us from war ; not our own power which
inspires terror ;,not the gentle and for
bearing spirit of the powers of Europe
at this crisis ; not the weakness of Eng
land; not her affection for this country ;
if we believe the aflurancej of gentlemen
on the other iide—What is it then ? It i»
the iutercft of Great Britain to have A
merica for a customer, rather than an e
nemy. And it is precisely that intej-eft
which gentlemen are so eager to take a
way, and to transfer to France. And
w hat is (Iranger flilF, they fay they rtly
on that operation, as a means of produc
ing peace with the Indians and Algerines
—The wounds inflicted on Great Britain
by our enmity, are cxpefted to excitc her
to supplicate our friendlhip and to appease
us by soothing the aniraolity of our ene-
mies
What is to produce eficfts so myftieal,
so opposite to the nature so much exceed
ing the efficacy of their pretended causes?
This wonder working paper on the table,
is the weapon of terror and deftruftion-—
like the writing on Belfhazer's wall, it is
to strike parliaments and nations with dis
may. It is to be (Ironger than fleets a
gainll pirates, or than armies against In
dians. After the examination it has un
dergone, credulity itfclf will laugh at
these pretensions.
10,556,000
10,07 2;ooo
1 3>779> 0c0
1 f,921,000
We pretend to expect not by the force of
our reftri£tions, hot by the mere shew of our
spirit, to level all the fines that have guarded
for ages the monopoly of the colony trade.
The repeal of the navigation a<st of Eng
land, which is cherilhcd as the palladium of her
which time has /endered venerable
and prosperity endeared to her people, is to
be extorted from her fears of a weaker na
tion. Tr is not to be yielded f eely, but vio
lently torn from hor, and yet the idea of a
ftruggfe to prevent indignity and loft, is con»
fide red a* a chimera too ridiculous for so
ber refutation. She will not dare fay they y
to re fen t it, and gentlemen have pledged
themfclves for the certain success of the at
tempt j what is treated as a phantom is vouch
ed by ta<st. Her navigation act: is known to
have caused an immediate contest with the
Dutch, and four # defpei ate sea fights ensued,
in conference the very year of it's paflage.
How far it is an ast of aggreflion for a
neutral nation to aflift the supplies of one
neighbor, and to annoy and difttefs another,
at the crisis of a contest between the two,
which strains their strength to the utmost, is
a queftlon which we might not agree in de
ciding. But, the tendency of fueh unreafon
ab!e partiality, to cxafperare the spirit of
hoftilitv against the intruder, cannot 6e doubt
ed. The language of the French government
would not soothe this spirit.
It propofei on the sole condition of a politi
cal connexion to extend to us a part'of their
Well-India commerce. The coincidence of
our measures with their invitations, however
lingular, need no comment. Of all'men, those
are'leafl confident, who believe in the effica
cy of the regulations, and yet afleft to ridi
cule their hoftrle tendency. In the commer
cial conflict fay they, we shall surely prevail
and etfe<ftually humble Great-Britain. In open
war we are the weaker, and shall be brought
into danger, if not to ruiu. It depends there
fore according to their own rfcafoning, on
Great Britain het felf, whether she will peifift
in a struggle, which will disgrace and weaken
her, or turn it into awwarr r which will throw
the shame and ruin upon her antagonist. The
topics which furnifh argument to Ihew the
danger to out peace from the resolutions, are
too fruitful to be exhausted. But without
pursuing them further, the experience of
mankind has shewn that commercial rival
fhips which spring from mutual efforts for
monopoly, have kindled more wars and wait
ed the earth more than the spirit of conquest.
He hoped, we Ihoujd ihcw by out vote, that
we d«em it better policy to feed nation-?, than
to starve them, and that we fhou'.d never be
lo unwise as to put our good customers into
a situation to be forced to make every exer
tion to do without us. By cherifliing the arts
ofpeace, we (hall acquire, and we are actual
ly acquiring the strength and refaurces for a
war. Inftend of seeking treaties, we ought
to ftiun them, for the later they (hall be so m •
ed, the better will be the terms, we fliall have
more to give, and more to withhold. We
have not yet taken our proper rank, nor ac
quired that con fide rat inn j which will not be
refufed us, if we persist in prudent and pacific
counsels, if we give time for ou» strength to
mature itfelf. Tho' America is rising with a
giant's strength, it's bones are yet but carti
lages : By delaying ihe beginning of a con
flict, we ensure the victory.
By voting out the refolutiotu r we (hall (hew
to our own citizens, and foreign nations, that
our prudence has prevailed over our prejudi
ces, that we prefer our interests to our re
fitments. Let us aflert a genuine indepen
dance of fpint, we (Rail be falfe to our duty
and feelings as Americans, if we bafelydet
cend to a fcrvile dependance on France or
Great-Britain.
( Delate to be continued.)
ALEXANDRIA, >Feb. 14.
Lafl Tucfday being tlie anniverfay of
the Birth-Day of The President of the
United States* was commemorated by
the Citizens of this town, in a manner
highly demonllrative of that ardent and
uniform affection which they have, on all
proper occafious, manifefted for the per
son of their revered and illuilrious neigh
bour.
the ADDRESS
Sptk-T. by Mr. Wicnell, at ti.c
of the New Theatre in this City.
WRITTEN BY MR. J! A R WOOD.
PAST is my toil and fled each anxious pain
Since I behold my 'riendf, my home again ;
How oft, when far away my fancy fov'd,
Lur'd to this spot by every scene I lov'd,
Here on thrfe boards I trod in waking dream,
And i? J talk'd, this spot was A ill my theme.
I painted oft, in colors just and true,
Thik glorious scene, so grateful to my view ;
My pu!fe would quicken and my hofom glow ;
But the true joy T never felt 'till now.
Hard was out fate to be condemn'd to roam—
Tho' fwect our exile, fioiti our defhn'd home;
Warm are our thanks to you who dar'd to brave
Our focr'worft (bafts,the drooping mufetofave,
Before whose phalanx superstition fled,
And fell fauaticiftn bow'U her head.
But I forget-^—
I come to plead for others, to engage
Your gen'rous caie, to aid a rising ftagc ;•
I come to ask, and for a num'rous band
Whom I have brought from a far diltam land,
Who have to me their fttfuie fate confign'd —
Friends, patents, all they left behind :
Giant but this boon, no sigh of fad regret
Shall reach the distant fbore, no teat* (hall wet
This happy land of promise and incfejje,
Save the glad teaisof gratitude and peace.
I fee, I read in each approving finile,
A kind aifent—l have not [oit my toil i
For them acrept my thanks—Fane) alone,
In richest effortsycan conceive rny own.
Nor let the with failidions eye
And penetrating search, our faults dcfcry.
While yrt the muse aspires on infant wing—
" The Eagle fuffers little birds to sing
Tlic trembling novice, ere tnatui'd by time,
Must full far short of judg meat's happy prune ;
Dilpcll'd the doubu and dangers h«r has fra;'d,
Yon inav admire the penius you have reat*d ;
Grrat by your favor grown, the r;J»ng age
5. K II b'efs the r (Tort's of a moral ftagr :
T! - si»;
.Ciear'd
o pur ty, ihe stage refin'd,
s drois,may cha» m,inltru£t mankind,
F>ee» new loicc from fcenei heroic gains,
The ttagc impedes not, but its cause maimain*;
Virtue may bete ii» btighutt lesion leant,
And frouied vice its uglnxfs difccin ;
Our precepts, wcll.diic&cd, reach the heart,
And to a6t well shall be a gen'ial part.
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING, Feb. 19,
Will be performed, a Tragedy, called
ISABELLA,
Or the FATAL MARRIAGE.
Count Baldwin, Mr. Whitlcck,
Mr. Fennel!,
Mr. MarlhaV,
Mr. Wignell,
Mr. Francis,
Mr. Cleveland,
Mr. Green,
Mr. Warrel,
Mrs. Whillcc v.,
. i.Roion.
Birort 9
Carlos >
Viliercy y
Samp/on,
Belford,
Pedro,
Officer,
lfabellciy
Nurfi,
Ina& 3d. an Epithalamium : the vocal
parts by Mr. Barley, Mr. Uowfcn, Mrs
YVarrell, Miss Broadhurit,
To which (will be addedy
An Opera, in two a&s, callcd
R 0 S I N A.
Belmillc,
Cap I. Belvillcy
William,
Rujlic^y
i/l Ir 'i/hmarjy
id Irt/kman,
Ro/rnky
Dorcas,
Phabsy
Mr. Marflull,
Jylr. Moreton,
Mr. Francis,
Mr. Warrel,
IVIt. Green,*
Mr. Bliflet,
Mrs. Warrel y
Mrs. Bates,
Miss Broadhurfh
With the original overture and accompa
niments, composed by Shieid.
Places in the Boxes to betaken at the B' x-
Oflice of the Theatre r at any hour from nine
in the morning till three o'clock in the after
noon, cn the day of performance. Tickets
to be had at the office near the Theatre, zt
the corner of Sixth-street, and at Carr & Co's
Musical Repository, No. 122, Market-fireet.
The Doors will be opened at 5 o'clock,
and the performances begin at 6 o'clock pre
cisely.
BoxF.s y one dollar—Pitt, three quarter®
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.
No places can be let in the fide boxes for a
less number than eig-ht, nor any places re
tained after the firft a£.
Ladies and Gentlemen are rajnfcfteu to
fend their servants to keep placcs, at half an
hour pall 4 o'clock, and to order them to
withdraw, as loon as the company art featcd,
as they cannot on any account be permitted
to remain in the boxes, nor any places kept
after the firft a£h
N. B. No money or rel et- to be returned,
nor any person admitted on any account
whatever behind the fccncs.
The managers request, to prevent confti
fion, servants may be ordered to f. t c or\xr. r.r.d
take up with the hones' heads tewju'ds the
Schuylkill, and drive off by Sevent ; ,'.
Vrvat Rtjpkbtica*
PRICE of STOCKS.
6 per cents, 18/2
3 ditto, I of 1
Deferred, 11fx
U. S. Bank, 11 per cent. adv.
Pennsylvania do. 10 ditto d^tu.PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 19.
From the Gtr.cral ddvcrPfar of this Mor
rung.
Last evening, an extra mail brought
the papers of the December Packet.
From a lially perusal of some of the
latest we have received, whicUuirc to the
6th of December, \Ve abftra& the follow
ing beads of intelligence. The Morning
Chronicle is our source of information.
On the 27th of November, in the Na
tional Convention, Robcrfpierre made a
report on the political situation of Eu
rope, as it reflects Fiance, oil which the
following decree was passed:
The National Convention declares i:
to be their constant resolution, to ihe»
thenifelvcs terrible to thei. cneitiies', ge
nerons to their allies, and just to all pco
The treaties now subsisting with the
United .States of America, and with the
Swiss, (hall Icrupulouffy executed.
With regard to the modifications which
have taken place, in confcquence of the
French Revolution, or the revolutionary
meafurcs taken for the maintenance of
Liberty, the Convention relies on the can
dor of the Republic and its allies.
• The Coiivcnta.il enjoins its civil and
military agents, to make the territory of
France, refpecfted'by their allies, and es
pecially the Swiss CautOHS.
The Committee of Public Safety, is
charged to draw i-lofer the ties of linion
and good undemanding fubfi(ting between
the Republic and its and to fee
that the neutral powers- enjoy all the
rights fti£ufcited in. treaties.
This report fliall be printed in all lan
guages, and sent by extraordinary co-u
---i'ieiß, into Can*
•ntons.
On the iSth Amar in the name of the
committee of i>;entrfil fafety announced a
plot formed by Pitt, and the coaJefced
kings to corrupt the leading rcprefenta
tivesof the people. Bazire and Cnabot
had received, and brought to the commit
tee ioc,eeo ltvres, to put thefhfelves at
the head of a conspiracy to dissolve the
Convention. Thcfe have denounced j
lien and Launay who accepted the offers
of the coalition.
They were all fourdite£led to be arretted,
In litis fitting, a letter was received
from the ei-devvarit I)uchcfs of OVkans
offering her fortune, At vtn ml
Republic
The comnvttee of fafety made a re
port on the means of giving government
nectffary energy.
On the 1 ith' of November the gold
and filvev colle&ed from various parts of
the Republic, in Paris, amour.ted to no
less than forty-one millions fterliug.
The Morning Chronicle of the 2d of
December fays, that it is now a well
known fa&, that the King of Pruflia has
withdrawn himferf from the war, under
the convv&ion that the new dodtiines of
the Jacobins cannot be overcome by force.
The Scotch Convention of Delegates
for obtaining a Parliamentary Reform,
met in Edinburgh on the ?6th of No-
vemoer.
Danton on his re-appearance in the Con
tention was received with luch applause
as fully proves that neither his popu
larity norhis influence arc on the decline.
M. C. Dec. 3.
The French have gained' conliderable
ground in the carter of Deux Pouts.—
The people in. the Netherlands are called
upon by government for voluntary contri
butions to support the wai.
Both Amliiaus and Piuflians about
the end of November were making re
trograde motions from all their polls.
Strcfbourg has been attempted by the
all. : er > in the only mode which has proved
to them fuccef&ful liuce the commence
ment of the war; —briberv :—But there,
even those mean., failed.
NATIONAL CONVENTION
November, 24.
Some Citizens of the United States of
America came to congratulate the Con
tention on the free and candid decla
ration tlicry tad made in the name of the
French People, lo'lheir allies and neutral
powers. They requeued the eitablifh
reent of a comm'ffon, charged under the
infpedlion of the Committee of Public
Safety, to determine on commercial dif
ferences which might arise between the
Citizens of the two Republics, and swore
inviolable friendship to the French, who
Kad afllftcd them to gain Liberty. Re
ferred to the « mmittce of Public Safety.
On the 21 it November, Wui nfer was
attacked by 25,oob'FrenthT ; t'.i Ldes
fought with fury from -morning till four
was covered with B,coo 1!..?n. At fi-x
the French (fay Bru.il is account) were
forced to yield and retired, to their en
trenched camp,
in the afternoon,
Tlse French are in poffcfllon of Blief
caftle, Kombourg, and Deux-Ponts, in
Germany.
The Morning Chroni I- of December
4th, contains an account of the issue of
Lord Howe's manoeuvres to take the
French squadron with which he fell in on
the 18th November. By Utters from
the fleet to the 27th 'it appears that the
French got ess under cover of a fog and
the night. The Blonde French frigate
was taken by four of the frigates ot Lord
Ho\re's fleet ; but Hie does not appear to
have belonged to the French squadron.
V I E N N A, Nov. 15.
The States ofltaly, it i~ fa id, mean to
take 20,000 Swift into their service and pay.
The Imperial troop-, who are marching from
Galllcia, wif! be replaced by some K<rifian
troops. Thsy are buftly employed in the ar
senal in making ten thousand fufils, which
will be feiit to Toulon by-Trie (lie. It is af
ftrted, that before the end of March next,
the army irv the Low Countries will be rein
forced with sixty thousand men.
The grand duke of Tufcartv having joined
the coalition agamft France, the city of Leg
horn will be the arfcnal and general maga-
zine of the njaratime power*? hi the Mideter
ranean. The Republic of Genoa, which has
also declared againff France, will obtain, as
an indemnification,- the island of Coi'fica,
formerly belonged to it.
The Hungarians have given a frefh proof
of their devotion to their sovereign by a free
fift of 3,000,003, a raffing three new re
giments of from «-o 5030 men each.
M A N H E l M, Nov. j6.
A desperate engagement, it is laid, has
token pk-.ee near Straftmrgh, in which the
Republicans have been completely defeated
by general Wurmfer.. We wait for further
account; refpefling this action.
The account of the a&ion between the
French and general Wurmfer is confirmed.
The latter attacked the French in tliree co
lumn';, dislodged them from all the adva»ta
p.ious polls which they occupied near Straf
fcurgb, zvd took polfefTion of them himfelf;
the loss of the Republicans is very con fide r
able.
We learn that on Monday last* the Praffians
made & smart attack on the fortrefs of Bitche
and penetrated as far a» the' drawbridge,
which they battered down; but the Republi
cans then made lb brisk a on the riffailants
tliat the latter, nptwithftanding the 11 utmost
efforts, were obliged to retire with confide r
able Iff is. Prince Louis of PrufEa, it is faid y
was wounded in the attack.
Uionty to the
General Wurmfer's head-quarters are still
at Brumpt, and the grand magazine for the
Pruluan army before I-andau is at Bracken
thai, two leagues from hence. The bom
bardment of Landau will, it seems, recom
mence in a few days. They are now repair
ing the entrenc.hment S) which the bad wea
ther had damaged.
The subsequent accounts of the aftiorv
near Strafburgh agree that it was a very
desperate one. The Austrian huflars took
the enemy in the rear, and made a great
slaughter among them, and thus decided the
vi&orv. They took a great number of can
non on the occasion-
Worms, November 21. The account
from Deux Ponts are not! the mod favora
ble. After the fraitlefs attempt of the Prus
sians on Bitche, the French advanced as far
Blielcaftel, in the environs of
Deux* Points, where the inhabitants fled on
all lides, to avoid the fury of the Republi
cans. It is supposed that a decisive aflion
will take place to-day or to-murrow, as the
dirFerent corps of Pruflia had united to at
tack the enemy, and oppose their further
progress.
naM'y Nov. 22. His Royal highness
Mor.lieur, the Regent of France, set off on
he Bth instant, with the two lons of the
Count d'Artois, for Cadiz. Those two
young princes, it is supposed, will remain
at the court of Spain, and Monsieur wit] go
to Toulin. The Count d'Artois will Ihort
ly quit Ham, and join the Rovalifts in Brita
nv. There will without doubt be an aflerii
blage of Emigrants, who will form a nume
rous army, and reinforce-that which is en
tering into France.
Cobletrtz, Nov. 23. We are in daily ex
pectation of the arrival of 16,000 Pruilians.
According to letters from Lorraine, the
Frcnch have drawn a body of troops from
the garri I'ons from Mezieres to Metz, to
form an army of 40,000 men, which has a
train of from 50 to 60 pieces of artillery.
This army will march to the Rhine, and
support the levy iir a mass of men, women
and children. The women have 40 sous a
day, and the children 15; They are going
to publilh the third requisition througout
France.
Ollio'tlfs, Nov. 8. We received reinforce
ments from the neighbouring departments,
but most of them are without arms. Those
whom we expert from Lyons begin to arrive
but we (till are not strong enough to do any
good agair.fl Toulon, formerly ccnlidcred as
November 16.
November 21
November 28.
impugnable. Our advanced posts t(tc fre
quently unguarded,. but this will be regulat
ed better. The new redoubt ii aimnftfani li
ed,'but we nnifr Juive a confide rahhi rcn
fo cement before wo can undertake any tiling.
0 Monies, K'ov. *2. The patriots are dis
pleased at,the tardiness of the operations be
fore Toulon. Three months arc now elapsed
fmce the commencement of the liege, awd
nothing has been done; not one fort is in our
power, or even a redoubt, except two or
three which the Engliih would not take pof
fellion of; th£ enemy, instead of abandoning
any of their poftr., work with redoubled ardor
in ere&lng new batteries, and fortifying
themfelvcs on all iides.
We have aimoit tiniihed our new redoubt
which will fc<? mounted wit* pieces of
cannon * but that will not do: we nruft get
pQueftion of Cape Cepe, to prevent the ene
my from receiving any succours ; and the
are so conscious of the importance
of that post, that they have fixed their
camp there, which is protected by a re-
doubt of 40 pieces of cannon.
Turin, Nov. 2. General de Vins, we
learn, is advancing with io y oOC men into
Provence, towards the lea r from vhich he
is only two leagues diftancc, General St.
Andre still remains on the defenfive at Ber
ga, where the enemy harrafs him perpetu
ally. Our loss in the affairs of the 18 19th
of october has been exaggerated, as it only
amounted to I2men killed and taken; a
mongffc the latter is Prince Marficonovo,
son to tlie Neapolitan Ambafiador sit our
court.
Leghorn, Nov. 8. Yesterday the Forti
tude and Lcviathin, two Engli.'h 74 gun
ships ; the sincere, 04*24 guns ; and a Royal
French frigate, of 40, failed for Toulon.
They are under the command of Capt*
Young, and have 1640 men onboard. They
also a«. 4 as a convoy to some vefTels, and,
amongst others, the Grand Duchess of Tuf
cany, which is going to the Eatt Indies.
Letters from Genoa inform us, that last
week a number of barrels of gunpowder
were found concealed at Porta Fanco,
from which it was conjectured thrt some
ill disposed per foil s had designs against the
great magazines which are in that place. In
consequence of this difcovary an Extraor
dinary Council was held, the result of which
was, that all strangers without exception,
were ordered to quit the city and port of'
Genoa, and a number of feluccas arrived
here this morning with patfengcrs from that
place.
jßrujfehy Nov. 29. The city of Antwerp
' has followed the example of the other towns
who have adhered to the requests of his Ma
jesty. His Excellency the Miniller Pleni
potentiary received the agreeable intelli
gence last night.
PARIS, Nov. 7,
The Jews of Avignon, to put their
money out of the reach of all requisition,
had filled several coffins with it, which
they daily went to bury in their burial
ground. The people iiruck with the
weight of one these convoys, entertained
jfofpicions, and opened the coffin, which
was found to be full of fpccie. In conse
quence a narrow search was made in the
burial ground, which produced a great
quantity of gold and silver.
November 22,
A letter from Salicetti, representative
of the people at Toulon, states, that the
army is iricreafmg, and artillery and am
munition arriving daily, and that they
will soon be able to press Toulon with vi
gour.
November 26.
The council of the commons of Paris
have on the motion of Chaumette, resol
ved, that to prevent fanaticifm, all the
churehes and temples in Paris of
every description shall be (hut; that the
priests of all religions shall be responsible
for any troubles that may be excited in
Paris under the veil of religion ; and that
whoever requests the opening of a church
{hall be arretted as a fufpefttd person.—
The convention furthermore was requeu
ed to prohibit priests from exercinug any
public function.
We hear that a squadron of French
fliips of war, are arrived in the Chefapeak
after a (hort pafiage from Brest. It con
fills of two of 74, 3 frigates of 44, and
18 guns. It is said that an officer from
the Admiral, with dispatches for themi
nifterof France, has arrived in town from
Baltimore.
We hear that Mr. De La Forest is
arrived with the above fleet, and is come
out as consul generalfor the United States
—also that this armament is designed as
convoy to the French merehant (hips des
tined for France—We further learn that
a commifiioner or commissioners are also
arrived as above.
The post from New-York which arri
ved this day, brought no newspapers—
this omission was occasioned by the large
number of letters with which the port
manteau was crouded.
CONGRESS
House of Reprrftrtalivei.
February 18.
The Pod-Office law was under difcuffi
-611 this day in committee of the whole—
an amendment propoling the redudion of
the postage on newspapers, viz. on tholV
carried to any dillance under an hundred
mile», to half a cent, and those carried
more than an hundred to one cent each—
occasioned considerable debate—and was
finally negatived, 44 to 40 —a motion for
further reilrifting the privilege of franking
was also negatived—the committee at
lengrti rose and reported progreis-
February 19.
Sundrv reports and petitions were read
and referred—among others a repot t from
a feleft committee on a message from the
President of the United States relative to
the South Western Frontier—this report
lecommends putting that quarter of the
United States into a defeniive situation,
and that the President of the United States
be inverted with powers requisite for that
purpose.
A message from the President of the U
nited States communicated a representati
on from the chief juflice and the affociatc
judges of the supreme court, relative ta
defects in the judiciary system of the Unit
ed States.
Another meflfage from the President
announced, that the a& for the relief of
Thomas Jenkins and fon6, has received
his approbation and signature.
The report from the leleft committee,
on the memorial of A. G. Frauncis, was
taken up and agreed to by the House.
The difcufiion of the report on the
Poft-Office law, was finilhed in committee
of the whole—agreed to by ths House—
and a committee appointed to bring in a
bill.
The discussion of a report on the Ju
diciary laws of the United States, engag
ed the attention of the committee of the
whole, till the time of adjournnrent.
The fubjeft of the contested election
of Mr. Gallatin, was further poflponed
in the Senate of the United States, till
to-morrow.
SHIP NEWS.
Yesterday arrived at Marcus Hook, tlie
brig Betty, Capt. Pease from St. Thoma&'s.
The schooner Neptune, Capr. Currie fioin
St. Mark's—and the flooja Salem, Elkim,
from New-York.
The lhip Edward, Capt. Crandon, of Phila
delphia, is arrived at Reedy-Island, from Pe
terlbix gh and Elfincur.
Arrivals—Sloop Nancy, Deaike, N. York
Hetty, Wallace do.
Farmer, Arno'd, do.
CO Crito is unavoidably pojlponed till
to-morrow.
*** Gracchus, is received, andfkalf
appear to -morrow if pojible.
(£j* This Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement—The Stibfcripiion
encreafes daily—Advertising Favors arc
folicited —These conjlitute an ejfential Item
in dimini/hing the Debit fide of the Account.
Philosophical Le£tures r
By J. M. RAY.
F H O M Edinburgh, lately from Paris,
teacher of Hebrew, & c . languages, au
thor of Comprehensive View of Philosophical,
Political, and Theological Systems, from the
creation of the world rothe present time, Sec.
He Will begin this second course of Lectures
Icbru ry 27th, at 6 o'clock in the evening, in
the Friends' grammar school room, 4tk ftreer
and will finilh it in a month.-*-The idea of it
was fiig|»erted by some Ladies for the improve
ment of the sex—but it is calculated for both
sexes (of any age above childhood) whereby
they will discover a new world in nature,
concealed from others as a fine country i*
from travellers in the night, and as the light,
and the appearance of natute is from tlxr
blind ; this will be a new fceneof enjoyment
and delight, as that of feeing is to one born
blind, and will teach them to acquire the pro
per use of their faculties, as a child does thar
of his limbs by learning to walk :-*-this will
elevate them to a Philosophical region of sub-
I me enjoyments and rational pieafnres, as
much superior to the pleasures and amuse
ments of others as a man is to n child in ftn.
ture, and which will endure the (hock of ad
vei fity, and notforfake them like others, is*
-ffliftion arc! old age ; as the use and end of
all real knowledge is practice and happiness,
this course will tend to promote perfonul haj
pinefs,.and fit lor the duties of fcrcu.fy, one
part of it will be on the preservation ofhoalj;h
of body and serenity of mind, without which
riches can afford noenjoyment : those whoob
fervi d the author's regimen,efcaped the Pcfti
lential disease in the houf? were others died
of it. To begin with an introdu&ory Lco*
ture on the great benefits of Pl.ilotophy tw
human life.
Frb. ,9-JAMES LEACH,
T) IjSPECTFt'LLY ip'orms hit fiiciuli and
1\ tlie public, T-lwi from the encouragement
hf T>s»» tr« cived, liom several icfpc£|abl< Genfle
mri-, he is induced once more, to embark in the
TAPER I.IN E— and would offer Ins fcvie. sto
all • nose Gent !< mm, who ran place cnnfirlrnct
in bim ; *n<i h- alLirrs thole who employ him,
tha* tb' ir confitience frail not be milplacen;—
hut tl Oinll be his constant rnriravor, to pay the
flnelt jt aueniiontoVfieii bell interest, ii» all ne
goc'ations whatever. He has taken tin Chambci,
in $tate-str et, ovpr Mr. Pax id. TnwhJeniL, Wa-eb
Make: 's Shop. Where PUBLIC SKCURI-
T1 1 S, of all k nos at' bought and fold; and
whet Commifljon Hu'fiuefs of all kinds, wtll be
tran';£U'd on icafonable terms. HOUSKS and
VESSELS will be constantly expofec} lor fak, oji
tominiflion,
* # * Cash t»aid for Salem, Piovidence, and
Poirfmoutb BIL! S.
\ B. l[ an\ Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
Ken>- Yuik. has any l ; (n tranfcfl aI fiojlvv,
in Fapct Nesoci it>ons, he uiU be fappx to be em
ploy d on comwjjion.
Boffon, Jan. *4, 1794.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the ilthday of April next,
at thcrlioufe of JchnThomfun, in Pertli-
Ambov,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
FN THAT CITY
r 1 Lot ciniiains elcvtn acies, on which is
1 an oichajd of g-aftrd apple fees, a well of
CXccHini water,' a large It ore c ftcrn, and a very
commodious tt.il>lr and coach-house, and a great
quantity of 1 Vic b*fl bnild;ng ft>hrs in fnc wallsj
of the houV, which was foimcrly birlt for tie
re fide nee of the G'»vcoyns of w-J«rfey. The
fniutiou of this Lot is <0 well ifP'<wri 'or its
h.'aiihinefs and Ueauiiful profped of the Rariion
river to the weft of the bav, and 5-iiidy-tfloofc tpi
(he r-iU, that a further defe-iptiqn is unn ccflVy.
The conditions of sale w ill he, one third of the
purchafc money 'O he paid on ijrie tit ft d*y of
M>v n>■ \, w h cii i good and fuffictrni D-ed will
be given to th< putchafrr, hv Walt** Ru
the'kkvk'd, Kfq*. Prcfident of the Boaid of
pioorietors ol the Eaftcrn D-vifi*>n of New
j. ifev, «nti[ the remainingt\v ft t.hi'ds fatisfado
rily.fccureJ in iijutl annual p'a\mcn:s.
By order of' the Board.
JAMI'.S PARKEU, Rigjfter,
Perth-Amfa?, y 5, 1 ;y4 a-iv.2in
War Department.
January 30\h 1794-
1\ T FORM ATION is heel.) gtv< nto air the
military invalids of the United States,that the
funis to which they are entitled for fix months
of 1 hen annua) penfvon, fiqtji the fourth day of
September 1793, and .will become dfie
on the sth diy of March'l7o4, will he paid on
the laid day tjy the. Com.njifiione's of the Loans
within the fines relp(&ivd\, under ihe ufml re-
gulati^ns.
Applications of cxccurqrs an.i ndrmniftrators
roj# I'C accompanird with iegil cviijrijce of
tkcir re Co- £tivc offices, and alio of lifetime the
invalids £ied, whofr penfiop they may. claim.
By command of the Pr.cij3-.nt
of the United Siair«,
H. KNOX,
Secretary of. War.,
(£T The printers in the rcfpcttivc lUtes srt
uqnellcd (opuhlill; the above in their nf.wfpa
pcrs lor the (pace of two months.
januavy 30.
] US T PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. RICE, No.' 50, Market-street,
also, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Market-fteeet,
(Price, bound, 6/61)
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story,
to which is 4flW>*
The Indian Cottage
From the French of M. dt St. Pierre.
" lHfc ab«veStqnc« liivr t>e< n Ntrly pub
lished, the works ot a very difFcient
nature, by M. de S'. Pierre, whor.fided in the
country which it describes, and wai well ac
quainted with the piincipal tafla. 11l oina
rtien's are the Lanrtfcape-the Climate—and
the natural hiftorv of the Tonid Zone, »bfer
wd with the eye of Taflr, and delineated with
the eve of Philofophtcal knowledge. It is a
Pastoral, of which the fable and the machine
ry may be said to be eqnally rell. To these arc
added, the puraveio of Moral Inftiuftion, and
the Sublime Ideas of M. dc St. Pierre."
Feb... <14'
JUST PUBLISHED,
and for iali by
M. Carey,No. 118,Higb-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
CoMMMiTAHr on Common Savings and
SuRJiCTS, which are full of Common
Sknse, the hefifeafe in the world.
TH IS little book 1! written in a stile altogether
novel, and i> adapted lo all capacities, at
V.ell as 10 all dalles of people, merchants, me.
thanics and farmerl. Such a reputation has thii
work acquired, that it has patted tlno three iro
prefljonain the eafteni states, and many houle
hoidersdeem it so ufelul as to purchase a copy
lot every adult in tbcii faroiliej.——Pmc « 2».
February 4.
NORRI 8-COU R T,
Back of the New Library, between Chefuut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the bu fine Is of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likwife, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or wtndow-fl)utters,donl in the mod
elegant manner, and with dil'patch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
|uft Imported,
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
And n'»w '>;><*'ii 11 cj for ;il< ,by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jireet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the follow,! g:
NE?P" Annual Register for 1792
European Magazine for the fit ft lix
months of I 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchefler society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and Ipiiit
on chrittianity
Difney'siife of' Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
P'Arioirs of Guy Joli
Meinty, a collection of e flays
Varieof Prussia's works
Calm ohfervei—by Maekintofli
RuiTell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extra&s, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnicr and BrifTon's voyage
RocHon's voyage to MadagitTcar
TowrifemPs travels in Spain
TaflVs Jerufaleni delivered
SmeUie's tranflatibn of Buffon
Berwick's hiiloty of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
liiftory of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiefities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to poYite literature.
I inlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudlon's Bay
Preston on inafonry
Lavater on physiognomy, aoridjfld
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
NeVker on executive power
Rifles of Spcundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's roins of empires
travels, with superb engrayjngs
Down man's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immaterialifni
Berchold > s advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chanson's life of \ oltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitns
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's (ketches of the history ps man
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe-'s gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the CrojnvfeU family
Playhouse dictionary
| Reveries of solitude
Smith's thpory of moral fenfiment*
l\iftory of the bible
Watfoq's life of Philip lid- & lUd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols-
Wan ley wonders oF the little world, called
man
■\yallis on ttye prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark.Ruflia,Poland,&:&.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical 4i&iflUU3
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra<sfcice of mid
wifery
Maunipg's practice of physic
Clcghorn'i. diseases of Minors*
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of cliildrc*
Qnincy's d fpenferory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on d(/cafes of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's pjiyfmlogy
Spalanzane's difl'ei tations
London practice of physic
Bell's forgery
Ckaptal's chemistry.
d-era
Peale's Museum,
HAS Lately received a number of article?;
among which are the following : That
remarkable bird called the Cut-v*ater, or fcif
ars-bill; The Avofctte, commonly called the
Shoe-maker, because ol its bill resembling a
crooked awl—The Long-legs, commonly call
ed the Black-bet, having perhaps the longest legs,
in proportion to the fi/e of the bird, of any of
ihe feathered tribe—The Storm-finch, common
ly called mother Cary's chicken—The Sca
fwallow, and various Gulls ; besides a variety
ot Oanes, Curlews, Snipes, &c.
The frull of a Whale 2nd one of its Vertebres.
An Indian hatchet made of chryftal : It is
curious that those uninformed wild people, hav
ing very little knowledge of the arts, and being
ignorant even ol the existence of iron and steel,
(hould be able to form such hard substances in
to fanciful forms as this, and other Indian ma
nuta&ures now in the Mufeuro.
The fpccimen shews
A lignified Quince
what a remarkable effe6t a dry warm situation
has on fruit. It is now about 8 years since it
was gathered ; and it was a real quince, now be
come wood, at lead in appearancc.
Pnefented by Mrs. Manfon o! Charleftown,
S. C.—a tool ufcd by the Otaheitans in making
their bark cloth, by pounding the bark on this
inftrumcnt of wood, u produces the ribs which
resemble threads : the perfectly straight and
equal lines made in this extreme hard wood, by
men without the use of iron,are curious & won
derful.
Alio, a rope made of grass, part of the rigg
ing of a veflel of Kamfkatka.
Pielented by Dr. Hall, of Lcwis-'own, a Squib
in spirits : when this filh was found, a number
of stones were appended to firings or ligaments
that projected from the front of its head,which
occasioned a conjeftute, as it is not furnilbed
wi;h fufficicnt fins to resist the violence of the
tide and currents, th-t it fattened wi»h these li
gaments on whatever it found at the bottom ; so
that the stones anfwercd the purpofeof anchors
and the ligaments of a glutinous sticky nature,
that of cable.*. Some of the Hones are in the
lame phial.
A collection of Minerals and other Foflils-
a r e now dtfplayed in drawers covered with glass
and in a mode which will feeure thein frdm de
rangement. To each specimen are affixed rcfe-
rences to a book of cefcuptions. This manage-
ment of specimens of*the Foflil kingdom, ren
ders this part of the Museum very convenient
and fatisfa£tory,and great attention will be paid
to the fvftcmaiical order of them, and in mak-
ing the neccffary c Ofays of : Also in giving
in a concise manner, the various uses they are
applied to; thereby rendering them the more
luterefliug to the public.
A Living Elk, of 2 years old, is just receiv
ed. By the account which tnonf. Button gives
of the Elk, it appears that he was not acquaint
ed with this American animal; lie particularly
omits all notice of the curious apertures adjoin
ing the eyes of this Elk.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
n Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying,
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requsfting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
(horteft notice, alt kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkey s and chaits, and harness
of every description, in the ncateft and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion to those who please to employ him.
He has for fake, several carriages almost
finithed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaston for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, *.794.
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the fubferiber has been duly ap
pointed Administratrix on the eft ate of
his Excellency Johic Hancock, Esq. late of
801 l on, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herlelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law diretts—and ajl persons in.
tcrcfted, are deGrc<i to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Softon, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the Estate of" his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subfcnher, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who (land indebted to said are
requeued to fettle with hrni immediately; as the
of Limitation of Anions, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
otherwise render it necelTary for Him 10 com
mence suits against them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793-
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requ« fted to nfert this id their
refpe&ive newspaper*, aud forward thei' ac
count! for the fame, to J. M
Bank of the United States
January 6th, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given, there will
be paid at the Bank, after the sixteenth
instant, to the Stockholders or their repiefen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty cents for each Ihare, being the dividend
declared for the last fix months.
Bv Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cafliier.
ALL persons having any de
mand> against the cftatc of GEORGE
WIBLE, late ot the city ot Philadelphia, baker,
are rtquefted to bring in their accounts, properlv
auihenticated ; and thofc who are indebted, are
desired to make immediate payment.
HENRY REES, Atniniftrator.
2awgw.
January 13.
Encyclopedia,
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Booklelier, at the Stone House, in Second
ftreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Of Arts, Sciences, and Miscellaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
Br WHICH
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are digcfled into the form of
Diftinft Treaties or Systems :
THIS volume contains principles of Levels,
Liberty, Do&rine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, Hiilory of Lon
don, Longitude. Luther, Lydia,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illultrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number ol families are (till in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. Dobton, solicits the favor
of the fubfenbers to call px feud for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poißble.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
its appcarance in an impcrfeft ft ate, some ac
count of the reason of that imperfection ftiould
be given. On the Bth of September last, the
Publisher had the misfortune of having his
Printing Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the fiquies, with
which he was printing the tables of lo
garithms, belonging to the preterit volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, be was under the neceflity of pub
li filing tlie volume without thele tablks; bat
hopes he (hall be able to publifb them with the
next volume which is now in confideraMe for-
wardnefs.
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very libei al pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of reprelenting to such of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necessity of
punctuality, both in taking up ihe volumes as
early as possible after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the fuh
fcribers having got only one, two, three, •
volumes, and several volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpaid lays the Publisher under
very serious embarraflment, and deprives him
of the use of many Thousands of Dollars which
at this time would be of very essential service.
For these reasons the Publisher finds himfelt
under the neceflity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those who
take and pay to the time o4*publication.
December 10.
Excellent CLARET,
la hogi-eads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter cask?,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. ix i, South Ftodi itrcei,
Jan. e, 1794.
Terms of Subscription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum-—to be
paid half-year/y. Subscriptions of pcrfons
who refrde at a diflance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the phice of publication.
j^dvertiff merits of cricfjuare, or less, in
fertedfour times for One Dollar—once, f r
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—those of greater length in pre
portion. Favors in this line, and Subscrip
tions, will be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fo u rthflrret, five doors north of the
| Indian Queen
PHILADELPHJA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, N<*. 3,
South Fourik-Si t Jt-
Vol. X.
*awn J.