EVENING AD V E
[No. 7 1 of Vol. V.]
For SALE,
"**l The Schoove*
lm* NEPTUNE
(.Lying at Morton's Wharf}
' She is a good strong vef
burthen ahout 500 bar
re Is, and fails remarkably
fafL Inventory may be fern on board, or at
the Store of the Subscribers.
Wharton & Leivis.
Feb. it, 1794. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
✓ The Ship
ANDROMACHE,
(* n American, bottom)
Moore, Master ;
Is a stout good veflel, at*mt t\ra years old,
burthen 232 tons, ha 6 only made tftree voy
ages, and may be sent to sea at a fm-afl ex
pence. She may be fcen at Vine-ftreef
and the terms made known by application to
Wharton & Lezt'is.
Fd>. 2i, 1794. otf
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. RICE,
No. 50, High-Street,
(Price One Dollar)
The Gentleman's
Pocket Library.
CONTAINING,
1. The Principles of Politeness.
2. The Economy of Human Life.
3. Rochefoucauld's Moral Reflexions.
4. Lavater's Aphorilms on Man.
5. The Polite Philosopher.
6. The way to Wealth, by Dr. Franklin.
7. Se!e<ft Sentenced
8. Detached, Sentences.
9. Old Italian, Spanish and English Pro
verbs.
10. A Tablet of Memory.
March 3. 4t
AVIS.
LE habitans infortunes de la Colonie Fvaufiife
de St. Domingue qui dant l'tneend <■ du
Cap font Venus ehercher un afile dan« les Etats
U'tia foot tnfofineß que la Republtque leur ac
ao'dc un passage pour Fiance. lis font uvvies
en consequence a fc prefcnter a cct itfet d'ici a
huit jours chez les Consuls & agens de la R6-
publique dans les diffeo nts P»-»rts drs Etats Urns.
A Phuade lphi e, 1p 10 Ven»*>s—l'an ad de
la Republiqur unc & indivifiblc.
(28 Fcvrter, 1794- vieu-xfiHe)
Lc Miniftic Pienipoteotiarc dc la Kef>ubli<fue
Tnafiife.
JH. FAUCHET.
The editors ♦/itewfp<rpers in the United States are
reqvtjied to insert th ■above notice in their paper. 8
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Rock-
Street
A few Bales of RulUa Sheeting*,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs 'n Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity «>l Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland C.in in Cases,
A Quantity of Bfimftonr,
v With a Variety of other Goods.
F 9. so. 3'aw6w
Excellent CLARET,
In hogdeads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine - y
MADEIRA,
In pipe*, hogsheads and quarter cafics,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. *lft t South Frontfllrcet.
KVJH;
dtf
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths Jewellers y
No. 42,
JOVTH SECOKD-STKIIT,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfnrtment of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY & fine CUTLERY,
Which they will diipote of on the inoft lea
fonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
firtt, and every in the gold and filvei
way, done as ufu&Lj
Dcccmbcr 34.
of tJje Iplltlfet)
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatnck,
from Arnfterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-ftrect wharf, viz,
Gin in f>iprs y
A few hales Holland Buck,
Ditto Oznaburgs-y
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Gtafs Ware, viz* Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious Jizes.
Sheathing Paper T
Swedes Iron, square and Jlat bars r
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Jttnk and Oakum, Ifjc. &c.
FOR SALE BY
The above-mentioned Ship" rr for Sale—-
Jhnnld application le made within a few days ;
other wife Jbe will take freight for Jlnfler
dom.
March j, 1794.
(Pries Twenty Cents)
By Mathew Carey,
Love in a Village,
A COMIC OPERA,
As performed at the New Theatre,
Feb. 18.
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
City Philadelphia,
JXD ITS F.NFIAONS:
Taken from signal survey, by A. P. Folie,
C-eogrepfcer, from St. Domingo.
THIS Plan will be fngraved on e plate a 6
inches Iquarc ; and ii will contain an ex
act drfcnpticn of all the fqu-ate*, ftrrets and
all' ys in the City and Liberties'. The fuoaiion
of the fevrral public building?, Inch as the State-
Haule, City-Hall, Seat of Congress, Churches,
Meeting-Moults, Hofpi;al, Library and Semina
ries of Learning-os the several Banks, and of
the Fctirral and State Oftces r wil! be sfcertained.
Thr parr> wh ; «b a»e built «n will be diftinguftu
ed from those that are not. The cotfrfes of the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended to connect the
navigationcf t-hefe two waters, as lies wichin
the of the draught, will be accurately
delineated, ft will alio be ornamented by a
'view of the Chipping in the hatbor, and an ele
vation i>l Coug»tf.s-HaU, and of the other public
building* that occupy the ground contiguous..
In (holt,, nothing will be omitted to- render this
ufcfnl and dt Arable work acccptable to an en
lightened public, that is in (he author's power:
amd it ftiall he compleated wtth the greatest
prfljole difp-.iLli y as loon a> thr generous encou
ragement of fubfcnheis fba-ll insure tothe author
such a lum as will' be futfkicnt to defray ex-
penr'-s.
A Pamphlet u ill be delivered with each
Flair, which will conta'ur an alphabetical lift of
the Suhfcriber# nawes, and information con
cerning the police, population and prcfent state
of the city.
The price to fuhfcribf j will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be p«*id at the time of deliver
ing the Plaas.
Subfcri prions will be gmtcfuTty rcccrved al
the principal Bookfcllcrs iu u.i. citv—and the
original Drafl may be si rn at B. Da VI El",
N»- 68. Maikrt.ftr.Tt, at any time until it ihall
It l»ut in'o the hands of the Eneraver.
Feb.
TREASUR rofPEMNS TL fJATA,
February 14, 1794.
Nol icr is hetehygiven to a!! pcrfont
X indebted to the Corhmonweallh, lor monies
borrowed ol the Trufleea of the Loan Office,
eftablilhed per ast ot the 41(1 of April, 1785'
that the time is expired wjien the last payment
fliould have been m?de, and every jultifiable
indulgenre been granted, Thai tmlefs
they come tor ward and pav off their refpeflive
balance* on or bcforrthe firft day of April next,
precept! will iflue agaml! all delinquents with
out regard to perftms or cirrumflancrt. All
former and existing lheriff», who have money
in their hand, belonging 10 said Office, are re.
quelled to bring it to me on or before the above
period, otherwise I ftinll be under the disagree
able nexreffity of profeoutmg them without dif
tin&ioa.
CHRISTIAN FEBIGER.
P. S. The Printers throughout the State are
tequified to iniert the above in their pa peri tor
ibr information of their feHow*citiiciks.
Biw&ftf
Wednesday, March 5, 1794.
Just Imported,
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
JUST PUBLISHED,
No. 118, Market-Street,
Chefnut-Street.
PROPOSALS
OF THE
AND
> Just Imported,
In the Ship JEdward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Peterfourg in Ruflia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE By
John Donnaldfon,
No,- a 2, Walnut-ilreet,
March 4,1794,
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, J A PANN'p
PLATES, CSV.
Done in the most elegant manner, and after
the firft mailers ; like wife,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finifhed at the shortest notice, by
d—tf
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norm's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walnut*
Fourth and Fifth flreeUv
dtf
March 4,
W A NT ED,
A Man Servant,
Who is acquainted with the common duties
about a house. None need apply but fuck
as can be well recommended.
March 4,
Exhibition of Artificial
Chineje Fire-Works,
Without powder, smell, or frnoke.
MFUSTUVER returns hie fmcere thanks
to the public for the great encourage
ment he has met with, and has the honor to
in»orm them, that his exhibition will be con
tinued every evening (Sundays excepted) at
7 o'clock, in Cherry-Alley, the firft door weft
of Fourth-street. Tickets for grown persons
I id. and for children 6<J»
Select parties confilling of ten or more per
sons will he admitted from 8 o'clock until 10,
notice being given the afternoon previous to
the exhibition. Tickets one quarter dollar.
Vivat Respublica.
*4t
March 4-.
TO BE SOLD y
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased.
The House N°. 245,
Lot of Ground
On which it stands, wherein Jam ts Biddli
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
street, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet ro inches in
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold fub
jedt to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their {uecelfers
forever. For terms apply to
Samuel Coates,
Jonathan Jonfs,
Anthony W. Morris,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, dee'd.
*eop 3W
sawtf
March i, 1794-.
Dally*s Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant't Cojet-Houfe ef this
City :—
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shifpen-Street, be
tween Third and Fourth-Streets, at the Iloufe
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly improved, and is now
very commodious; where he ha*forniftled fritn
felf with the best of LIQUORS, and will fur
nifh a TABLE for Parties, with the best provi
sions the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
Ihortrft notice. From his long experience in
this line of business, he flatters himfelf be shall
be able to give (atisfa&ion to all who may please
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29,1794#
R T I S E R.
d*w3tawtf
Enquire of the Printer.
dt'f
A N D
[Whole No. 525).]
Congress of the United States*
House of Reprefentativet.
January 30.
In committee of the whole on Mr. Madison*
resolutions.
Speech of Mr. Madtfan.
[continued.]
Another charge again ft the Secretary
€>f State is, that his report calls the difcri
rtiinatirrg duties in Great Britain hi favor
of American woody small, whereas they
are considerable* and in fbveral in fiances,
high.
Mr. M. said he had not found Jeifure to
trace this branch of our exports into alt
the details neeeflarv to decide in what de
gree the duties were small or confidcrable,
and in what proportion the several dutied
articles went to Great Britain. He ob
served in general that the greater part of
our woods were exported to the Weft-In
dics, not to Great Britain. That in the
(hip-woods, at least the Baltic nations wertf
not iivali to the United States. It wa*
known thai Sweden and Denmark were
so deficient in oak, that their public navies
were supplied from Germany, and that
the (hip timbers of Ruflia were tjanfporu
ed a thousand or twelve hundred miles from
her interior dominions. The fir, of which
the Swedi(h and Dani(h merchant ship*
were built, does not lad more than feverc
or eight years, and could not therefore
be a rival to the durable wood* of the
nited States*
He observed also ffiat timber, and par
ticularly the (hip woods of this country,
were so precious and so sure of being iiv
demand, that they never could fear a ri
val, or need a foreign bounty. This was
an article very different from such as were
an annual product of the earth: and as
could be raised wherever the climate and
foil permited, according to the occasional
demand. The forefts that were to sup
ply the /hip-yards were the growth of
centuries, and where once destroyed, as
they generally are in Europe, are rarely
replaced at asl r and never can become the
rival to America, which enjoys them a»
the spontaneous gift of nature.
To enhance the merit of the Briu'fh
regulation, the gentleman had told us,
that wood was fubjeft to a duty of i per
cent, in the French I (lands, and in the
Britilh free, with a prohibition of other
foreign wood. This was of little conse
quence. The duty was a trifle, and fal
ling on a ncccfTary article to be got no
where else, probably was paid by the
French I(landers. And the prohibition l
was ideal, the American wood being the
only resource for the Britifti market.
The article of Fish, was admitted by
the gentleman himfelf, to be more favor
ed' by the French than the British fyflem,
though he admits it with relu&ance and
diminishes the difference as much as pos
sible. The cafe however is so clear, and
the facts so palpable, that they speak for'
ihemfelves. Under the French regulati
ons, this important article of our com
merce, is fubjeft to duties only r in Europe
and the Weft-Indies. Under the British,
it is under prohibition in both. The a
mount of the whole exports is 383,237
quintals of dry, and 57,424 bands of
picklcd fifTi. Of this the French eonfump
tion, is 2 2,1" 1 quintals and 45* 164 bar
rels ; that is, nearly § of the dry, and 4-e
of the pickled fifh.
Here Mr. M. proceeding to the fubjeft
of whale oil, called the attention of the
committee particularly to the representa
tion and language of Mr. Smith as to the
the conduit of France, in inviting the fifh
ermen of Nantucket to remove and fet
tle at Dunkirk. Mr. Smith, he fold, had
not only undervalued the monopoly of
the French market granted to-the United
States, but had, by a mutilated quotation
of a report of the secretary of State on the
fi(heries, changed the true afpeft of the at
tempt to draw away the- Nantucket fifli
ermen. The faS was, that although- tfcerundti& of France was very different from
what was to have been wished, as well as
f:um v '.at was contemplated by the mar
qua, la Fayette, *ho had patronized tiie
iuteieii oi tl.de hlbennrn, yet that the
prujeft of tempting tht ro to emigrate had
origina ed in Gtvat-I'.ritain, and was a
counUr-prujcC on the part of France. How
ttw happened to omit the an
tecedent attempt of Great-Britain, and
thereby exaggerate that of France, Mr.
M. did not undertake to explain : but it
wjs the more extiaoidir.ary, at. the whole
acixmnt of the tranfaclion was contained
in the fame page of the report, nay in the
fame paragraph, from which the gentle
man hrfd extracted "his information.
Hero lie read thepaflage m that report,
am! produced the British llatute, inviting
the whale lithe.man, by an offer of tcr
ta a privileges to emigrate to Great Bri-
A further charge again (I the Secretaiy
of St*te is, that in his flattmeut of the
tonnage of the United States employed
in tn. A trade with the French and Bntilh
dominions, he founded it,net on the aSual
number of Jbift, but on the number of en
tries. This charge was as lingular as it
was uncandid.
The re-port Hated the fad, that the A
mencan ton nage mitring our ports from
the several nations with which the United
loded, was so and so; and in this
ilaumcat, it pursued the official returns
made or. the fubjeft. What more was to
be required ?
In giving the tact, the secretary irr.pof
ed «.;i no one, because he Hated the ton
ua 0 to be entry tonnage, as it really
He followed the best guide that ex -
illrd, an official icturn from the proper
No return of the aftuai tonnage, as dif-
from the entry tonnage, had
at the time, ever been made from any of
fice, or ca'ied tor by any act of Con
gress.
The firft return ever made In the latter
form, was called for tince the refolutious
on the table were proposed.
TKeleconfideratichsmigh? have re ft rain
ed the gentleman from this unwarrant
ed attack on the accuracy of ths report.
Bui he ought at leatf to have been lure,
th \ whftft h * was charging the Secretary
\*;':i following an erroneous guide, he
\ t him ft If following one that was noter
-1 ' ous. The examination of this point
i" Ived facts which iperited the particu-
.1 atie.ition of the committse,
he statement of the ettby tonnage of
the V M.'ted States in foreign trade for I 792
lately called for and reported, 15415,331
t. -'W.
for the fame year is 289,394 toHs.
On comparing t'nefe two quantities, it
was evident that both could not be right.
If the entry tonnage was no more than
was (lated, it was inconceivable that the
afiual tonnage could be as much as was
ftp.ud. It would allow the veflels in the
Kuropean and Weft India trades together
but (omcwhat more than one voyage and
a third a year. It could never l»e suppos
ed, thai this corresponded with the fa&.
liow then was the inconsistency in the
two ftatemcnts to be explained ?
Mr. M. said, as he did not know by
what rule the achial tonnage was made
up, he would form no cor.jedhire on the
fhl ject. He hoped,and wished that some
gcn'leman more conversant with it, Would
{llvc the phenonenoon. He did not call
011 the gentleman from South Carolina,be
cause he moll of all, must he puzzled to
account for it ; having stated that onr ves
sels in the trade to Europe make two voy
ages, and in the Weft India trade four
voyages a year.
Betides the evidence contained in this
companion of the aggregate tonnage in
the two different forms, in which it had
heen reported,the exiitence of error some
where, and probably in the acconnt of
the a&ual tonnage resulted from a compa
rative view of our exports to the British
dominions, for the two years of 1790
and 1792, and of the whole tonnage A
rr - itHn and British employed in convey
%
ing titCßi*
In the former year the exports were
f,363,416 dollars. Intlirlatter 8,269,495
dollars; the txceft for 1790, 1,093,921
iuflars.
Tlie entry tonnage, British and Ame
rican for 1790, was 272,580 tons.
The British miry tonnage for 1792.
was 206, $84 tons. The aßual American
to->n"V T < for 1792, was according to t<ie
official llateir.cnt, 66,581 tons; which
turned into entry tonnage, according to
the proportion of the whole actual, to
the whole enti-y tonnage for that year,
mikes the American entry tonnage, in
the trade to Great Britain about 95,000
tons.
Adding this to the Britilh entry ton
nagt of 296,384 tor:3 > the Britilh and
American together for 1792, amounts to
301,384 tons ; which exceeds the ton
nage of 1790 no lcfs thai> 27,804 tons.
According to this calculation, which
embraces the actual tonnr.gc as ltated to
die house, there would be 27,804 tons
more,employed in tranfpoiting 1,193,921
dollars Ids; making our tonnage to in
crease in that proportion as the employ
ment of itdecrcafed.
There was a pollibflity, Mr. M. ob
fened, that the course of trade in the
two years, might be such that more of
the vessels employed in the expertations
to Great Britain might be entered in 1790
as coming from some other country, than
in 1792 i but as there was no knov.n cir
cumftar.ee which authorized this folutior,
and as it seemed denionltiable in general,
that error existed somewhere in the flate
ments, and molt probably in thofc of the
actual tonnage, he concluded that it ought
to be referred to that source ; and confe
qnently, that the guide followed by the
Secretary- of State, to wit, the entry
tonnage, the only one he had to follow,
was not more inaccurate, than the a<stual
tonnage would have been, which guided
the member from South Carolina.
Another position of the Secretary of
State on which a charge is founded, is,
" that the greater part of what Great
Britain receives from the United States is
re-exported." This, polition, Mr. M.
reminded the committee, related to Great
Britain without comprehending the Weft
India iflanda, which formed a diltinCt
branch in the Secretary 3 ! report. How
far it was liable to the exceptions taken
againlt it, would appear from an exami
tion of facts.
To obviate critieifms, Mr. M. said he
would take for The baiis of his calcula
tions, the ilatement given in detail by the
gentleman himfelf, of the exports for
1790, to the -French and British domi
nions ; which though not' extended to
every item, approached so near to a fuOl
view of the tiade, as to be adequate to
the purpose.
In this ftatcment the exports to Great
Britain (land at dollars j from
which must be iubtra&eu, for the compa
rison, the amount of the fcveral re-exper
tations as far as they can be liquidated.
Tobacco. It appears from an official
document, that the tobacco exported to
Gteat Britain in 1791, was 67,216 hogs
heads. A return for another year Hates
the quantity to be 52,505 hogsheads. It
appeared from the revenue returns of
Great Britain, that the consumption of
this article amounted to 9,600 hogsheads.
The proportion re-exported might then
be reafpnably set down at four-fifths of the
quantity imj>orted.
Rice. To obtain the proportion of
rice re-exported, we may take the medi
um quantity imported for three years,
immediately preceding the revolution,
which, accordingly to a table in Ander
fon's Hiflory of Commerce, was 486,543
cwt. By another table for the fame pe
riod, the medium quantity exported was
349,653 cwt. Tbe difference marks the
confamption, and is 136,890 cwt. The
quantity exported to Great Britain from
the United States in 1792, was 58,978
barrels, equal to 294,890 cwt. Compar
ing the quantity consumed with this quan
tity, it appears that more than half, tho'
less than two thirds, is re-exported—call
the re-exportation one half only qf the
present importation.
Indigo. According to a statement in
Anderi'on, the medium importations into
Greal-Britain, for three years immedi
diately preceding the revolution, were a
bout thrice the medium quantity re-ex
portei'. Call the proportion re-exported
now, however, one-fifth only, which it
probably below the faA.
From these proportions, and the data
furnilhed by the gentleman's own state
ments, results the following juftification
of the report of the Secretary on this
point.
Dollars.
Exports to Great Britain 6,651,429
Dollars.
Tobacco 2,754,493
Consumed 1-5 550,898
Re-exported
2,205,395
R!ce 773> 8 5*
Cunfumed 1-2 386,926
Re-exported 386,926
Indigo 473» 8 3°
Conlumed4-5 379,064
Re-exported
Wheat and flour, per
haps the whole re-ex
ported :—And more
was carried to Great-
Britain, in the two
succeeding years, tho'
the aggregate exports
thither were left than
in the year here ta
ken : Say, however,
that one fourth was
consumed, and let the
amount Hand accord
ingtothegentleman's
ftatenjent —at
94.766
1,087,840
Confumcd 1-4 271,960
Re-exported
815,880
Here, then, it appears, that the re-ex
portations of the four articles alone, of
Tobacco, Rice, Indigo and Wheat, are
greater than the wlu>le confuroption in
Great Britain, of the articles imported
from the United States, although the
most unfavorable year has been taken, for
the enquiry ; and, consequently, that the
position of the Secretary of State, was
well founded.
( Speech to ie continued.)
Mr. Fenno,
You are requested to give the inclosed
remarks made by Mr. Giles, a place in
your paper as soon as may consist with the
arrangements of your prefj—it is the ra
ther requested, beeaufe the manner in
which you have dated the tranlaflion, to
which they relate, was not calculated to
convey the truth of the cafe. *
From the General Arlvert'tfer.
Substance of the remarks made by Mr.
Giles, in the House of Representatives,
on the 24th of February, 1794 ; —upon
a motion for entering into the coniidera
tion of the resolutions proposed in the
early part of the fefiion ; requiring an ex
amination into the (late of the Treasury
Department, by committee.
Mr. Giles observed that very shortly af
ter the meeting of Cengrefs, he had laid
this resolution on the table, under a con
viction of the propriety of the meaftire,
and the hope of a speedy decision upon it.
An occurrence took plate a few days af
terwards, which produced a temporary
delay. An individual pre&nted a memori
al to Congress, containing some suggesti
ons again (I the official conduct of the gen
tleman at the head of the Department;
and to have pressed the enquiry into the
general state of the Treasury, during the
pendency ofthofe suggestions, might have
been deemed a violation of delicacy and
propriety: Very soon after the imputa
tions from that source, were done away,
by report of a committee ; lie" had called
up the resolution ; but the House acting
under the impreflions produced by the de
licate crisis of our external affairs, refufed
to enter into the coufideration of the fub
jeft at that time.
Mr. Giles remarked, that whilfl on the
one hand, he was desirous of looking into
a fubjeft which he deemed important to
the public welfare, as well as to gratify
an officer in a requcfl, which he conceiv
ed, had been impelled by the delicacy of
his situation ; he was not unwilling on the
other hand, to yield to the opinion of the
House, which induced an immediate at
tention to our affairs with foreign nations.
The fubjefts of commercial regulations,
and the naval armament, being now out
of the view of the House, at leall for some
days, he hoped the chasm would be filled
by the consideration of the resolution he
had proposed. He could not help re
marking, that at an early period of the
feflion, this resolution had been termed
the torch of discord. He thought if it
could be viewed with impartiality, and
according to its own design, it would no
be found to poflefs that charaAer. The
primary object of the resolution, is to af-*
certain the boundaries of discretion and
authority, between the Legidature, and
the Trcafury Department. To effcft this
* If there has been any nufreprrfentation
of this fubjed, in this Gazette, it Is unlnvwn
to the Editor.
objeS, it becomes neteffary to have a
knowledge of the state of iKe Treasury
Department; This appeared to him, an
obvious duty of the House of Representa
tives, operating equally upon every indivi
dual of whom it is compoltd j it therefore
seemed strange to him, that an attempt to
discharge an essential duty, (hould be con
ftrucd into a design to interrupt the har
mony of deliberation.
If to require a full and comprehensive
view of the public finances, and the modes
in which they are contributed, and distri
buted ; be conflrued into an effort at dis
cord: it must arise either from the opini
on, that Congress already poflelis this vie#,
or from the principle that they ought not
to poflefs it ; but that the whole know
ledge of this fubjeft (hould be left to th«
Treasury officers. If this doiSrine be con
tended for, he thought it ought to (Simu
late the exertions of those, who believed
it to be fubterfive of the primary principle
of the constitution.
He icquclied the House to accompany
him in making a few reflections upon this
fubjeft.
3,-01,067
The debt of the United States, forms
an important item of legislation : Its fyf-
U-m is intricate; its extent unknown ; it
embraces the interefls of a very sagacious
and powerful class of citizens: It is made
by the constitution, the peculiar province
of the Representatives, immediately cho
sen by the people, to superintend the con
tributions, and the attributions of all
public monies. This may be deemed the
highest duty of the Representatives. It
may be allied, how this mo!l important
of duties, can be underltandinglyperform
ed, but by a knowledge of the whole ma
chinery of the Treasury Department ?
There can be no prospect of ading -jjifely,
where there are no means of judging rightly.
The omiflion to discharge this important
legislative fun&ion, by the Representatives,
will neccflarily cause it to be performed
by the Head of the Department. A spe
cies of laws will grow out of an inatten
tion to, and a consequent ignorance of this
fubjeA, which may be called, the rules of
office ; theforms of the Treasury ; the prac
tical conJlruSiors 'f laws,contravening the
legal conftru£lions. Iu all conflicts between
this species of laws, and the laws pro
nounced by the constitutional tribunal,
the advantage would he in favor of the
Treasury system : Because this would be
the practical, that the theoretic system of
legislation. An inattention to this fub
jeft, which is an intricate and complicat
ed one, and a confequertt ignorance of it,,
might in a course of time, leave to the Le
gislature, the mere right of regifttrinjj
'I'reafury edidb. It may be said, that this
is not the cafe at prefetit: It is not pro
posed to giye any opinion on this point;
the remarks have been intended to (hew
the probable tendency of intruding this
important branch of legislation, to the
Treasury Department; which would be
the infallible confequeiice of the ignorance
of the Legislature, of the Treasury pro
ceedings.
The propriety of placing confidence, in
the Executive Officers, is an argument
very familiar to this House. To a certain
extent, it is in every refpeft proper. It
is proper, so long as the officer confines
himfelf to his legal aefignated functions :
If in any cafe, he (hould exceed these, it
becomes the duty of the Lcgiflature, to
notice the proceeding. It is also the duty
of the Legillrtuir to afcertoin his functions
by law, and to limit his discretion. *9his
argument of confidence in the executive
officers, may easily be carried to a danger
ous exctfs. The people have confidence
in their Representatives ; they bellow on
them certain trusts, and impose on them
certain duties. The reprelentatitves have
confidence in the executive officers. They
transfer to them, these trusts and thele
duties. What would be the result ? A
complete and radical change in the mod
essential chara&er of the government:.
In Ilea J of the Legislature prcfcribing
rules of conduit to the people, the execu
tive officers would prescribe them ; and
the Legislature would be of no other use
than to legjdife executive proceedings.
This would be a desertion of the trust re
posed in the "representative. The consi
deration of individaal ease, would always
operate in fivor of this idea. The argu
ment of individual interell might poflibly
aid it in some inllances, and the argument
of policy in others ; for there may be some
individuals, who might poflibly prefer that,
to the constitutional (late of things. These
remarks had been made to flievr, in verygeneral terms the impressions which the
fubjed had made on his mind ; to exhibit
its general object; to prove that it was not
unimportant: And that if fcich should be
the opinion of the House, the stage of the
fcfiion require 3 that it Ihould receive im
mediate attention.
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 5.
THEATRICALS.
OBSERVER, No. VI.
Monday evening, at the New Theatre,
the " Schpol for Scandal," —and the
" Poor Soldier" were played.
The Performance was honored with
a numerous and refpeflable company, fi
lming which were the President of tne
United States, his Lady and family, and
the Vice President.
The President was welcomed with 3
cheers, and the miific gave us the Prefi
dent's March; so far, well; but in the
course of the evening, the people in tiie
gallery were extremely noisy and inde
cent.
To the managers a hint; — The persons
in the Gallery interrupt those who vvilh to
hear, they hiss the heft pieces of mafic ;
a per lon in one of the fide-Boxes, observ
ed iome lads of Spirit spit upon people in
the Pit. Gentlemen, a reform mud be
effe&ed, oryourhonfe will be solitary.—
Those who wife for rational and decent a
musement, will contribute to indemnify
you, and (hut the Gallery entirely, if you
cannot reilrain the unruly people who fre
quent it. Your interest is deeply concern
ed in attending to this hint.
A hint to the a&ors.—Set afiae Mr.
Bates and Mrs. Morris, and the " School
for Scandal" was not performed well ;
the Old Company have done it much bet
ter ; choose a better play, or perform this
better, if you mean not to ftupify the au
dience : ITie play itfelt will never rife a
bove mediocrity, and unless helped out by
uncommon merit in action, had better be
consigned to oblivion.
Mr. WignelPs forte, is the part of Dar
ky in " Tbe Poor Soldier," and Mr. Dar
ley and Mfs. Brnadlmrfi, in the songs of
the " Twins of I.atona" and the " Mea
dows loot Cheerful" were equal, if not
fuperiot- to themselves, on any former ex-
hibition.
But however much the Observer wifties
to praise, the players will consider, that
undeserved applaule,is the highest exercise
of cen'fure ; and that disagreeable truths
are often profitable.
The whole performance on Monday
evening was but tolerable, when conlider
ed / collectively ; when analysed, many
parts wanted animation, were awkward,
and in Ihort, if not intolerable, approach
ed very hear to it. If this hint is improv
cd to advantage, particulars will be pur
pofclv avoided.
Genuine extra£l of a letter from a Mer
chant of the fiift intelligence and re
fpeftability in an Eastern State, to his
Correspondent in this City.
" I am happy to find it your opinion
that Mr. Madison's plan would have been
reje&ed, had it been put to the vote. 1
think the question being deferred until
March will not render it more likely to
succeed—their party mud and will lefTen.
AU the merchants in this and the neigh
boring towns, are decided againil the lyf
tem at this time; and consider it,if adopt
ed, calculated to involve us in ruin, by the
total deftru&ion of our fiourifhing com
merce. Our navigation is well employed—
ofcourfe our marincrs& mechanics. Their
wages were never so high in peace, and
the produce of our country finds a ready
market.
Mr. Smith of South Carolina, has clear
ly proved the advantage of our commerce
with Great-Britain. Indeed it must be
obvious to every one—his speech has been
much approved here.
I presume that Congress will be influ
enced by motives that will conduce moll
to the general good, and not by that pie
judice and party spirit which Mr. Madi
son's* plan appears to have been founded
upon. No advantage can derive from any
pl-.Ds formed on tlnjfe principles.
It gives us pleafare to find the northern
members and (o many from the commer
cial towns to the southward, united a
gaiaft the reftri&ing system. I wish they
may continue united and firm in opposing
this and every other mealnre calculated
to destroy the good government, and im
poverish and dilturb the happy people of
the United States. Ido hope and be
lieve thev will gain strength and support
in every measure, tending to support go
vernment, and to keep us from the great
calamity of war, and European politics.
Many of our merchants have fullered
greatly by the detention of our vefiels in
France. They will not continue to fend
their property to that country from
whence there is no return, except mad
politics. Such conduct as the French
are pra&ifing will loon wean us from pre
judices in their favor.
Many among us complain that Congress
have not duly attended to checking the
Algerines. We think that object merits
their firft attention. I am.glad to find the
vote for building fix ihips has been ob
tained, they are thought to be adequate
to keeping the pirates within the Streights.
Wilhing that pe?ce may be obtained
with them, and prcferved with all other
nations. I am &c.
A correspondent observes, that the
public councils of this country can never
be expected to prosper, till the supreme
executive (hall employ the paragraphia of
the General Jdvertifer of this, morning,
to help him keep the secrets of ftatc.
For the Gazsttx of the United Stjtf.s
A LAW SCRAP.
Part for ike vfe of M. Carey—the fefl. for
whom it may cotu'ern,
A YOUNG man who was confined
in gaol, in October last, amongst a number
of other prisoners, for a debt of £. J 13 9.
at the suit of a Quaker trader of consider
able property in the county, was taken
dangerously lick with the Yellow Fever,
which he had catched in Philadelphia :—
At the earned and repeated solicitations
of all the prisoners and inhabitants of the
village, he was removed ont of prison to
hi? mother's house, where he died of the
fever about two days after.—The plantifF
a few weeks ago brought an action against
the Sheriff of the county for the escape
of this dead man, before a Justice of the
Peace, and obtained a judgment against
him; from whieh the. Sheriff appealed to
the feflions.—When the cause came 011
(General Whiffet* havingprevioufly iflued
fer.ret orders to his subalterns for'conduc
ing the battle) Corporal Catfjh supported
by Serjeant Snipe, opened for the appellee,
by moving the Court " to order the Pre
lidertt of the Court togo off the bench."—
After about 3 hours grinning and chin
wagging, the President addressed them to
the following purport: " Gentlemen, you •
r, ay save yourselves any further trouble on
this fubjeft. 1 know my duty and mean
to do it. I will not desert my post let who
will order it.—Force may remove me, but
the Law will not. I am no boxer or
military man, but your attack formidable
as it may appear to yo-.t, does not terrify
me. As for General Whiffet and Corporal
Catfjh, I have been a witness of their re
doubtable prowess, in the Yellow Fever
campaign of last fall. I know the force of
Camphorated bullets while I was a prafti
cioner, and I have not yet forgot the smell
of them. Pleafc to change your plan of
operation and go on with the appeal,
which the Court ordered on accordingly.
N. B. The particulars of this cafe will
be published after the decision.
* This fame General was the mojl aflivr
man in the To wn, in urging the removal of
this Sick Man, and was so frightened with
the name of the Yellow Fever, that Camphor
itfelf eould hardly leep life in hiifi—The
very smell of gun-powder inflantly gives
him the Cannon Fever.
Tie following mifcdlannus articles are co
pied from the American Star.
A letter was read to the Convention
from the Commidioners at I-a Vendee,
conceived in these terms, " La Vendee
is 110 more—all the country that it con
tained i 9 actually occupied fay the troops
of the Convention—a profound silence
reigns over this land—the country may
be travelled without almost meeting a An
gle man—except Cliolet de St. Florent,
and some little villages, we have not left
behind us pnv thing but allies and dead
bodies."
The Commidioners of Lyons wrote
(the 22d) to the Convention, that since
their entiy they have every day been en-
gaged in decapitating criminals, and that
they are disposed to put in execution the
decree for the detlru&ion of that rebel-
lious city
The Revolutionary tribunal ha« divided
itfelf into two fedtious for the purpose of
accelerating its labors.
The Convention decreed on the 6th of
December, that the itatue of Rousseau be
erected in one of the squares of Paris.
A report was made to the Convention,
whose tendency was tofubilitute an univer
sal worship of Reason infteadof Chriftian
ifm. The report finifhes thus; " Con
tinue to diredfc in a firm and rapid man
ner, the great movement imprefTed by the
French people on the human heart, and
compleat the gospel of equality, which is
to triumph over the most ancient preju
dices and renew the face of the world."
The day after this report, Gobet, the
conditutional bishop of Paris, with his
vicars, accompanied by the conllituted au
thorities, and wearing the cap of liberty,
declared at the bar of the Convention,
that they renounced their fun&ions as
bishop and prieits.
Coupe, an ancient curate, Lindent, bi
shop of the department of Eure, Miller,
curate in that of the lower Seine, Julien
de Tooioufe, miniiter of the protestant re
ligion, Cevernon, curate of La Vendee,
and many others appeared at the tribunal,
and there made the fame declaration.
General Doppet, conqueror of Lyons,
is appointed to the command of the ar
mies of the Eastern Pyrennees.
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING, March 5,
Will be performed,
A T RAG ED T,
(never performed here) called
The Carmelite.
St. Vafcri) Mr. Fennell.
Lord Hildebrand, Mr. Whitlock.
Lord De Conrci Mr. Green.
Montgomeri, Mr. Cleveland.
Gvfford, Mr. Harwood.
Fitz Allan, Mr. Francis.
Raymond, Mr. Warrell.
Matilda, Mrs. Whitlock.
End of the Play, a new ScotJ Dance,
called, the
CALEDONIAN FROLIC,
By Mr. Francis, Miss WUlems, and
Mrs. De Marque.
To which will be added,
A FARCE, in two Adb,
called
T*he Spoiled Child.
Little Pickle, Mrs. Marshall.
Old Pickle, Mr. Finch.
Tag, Mr. Francis.
John, Mr. Bliflet.
Thomas, Mr. Darley, jun.
Miss Pickle, Mrs. Shaw.
Maria, Mrs. Cleveland.
Margery, Mrs. Bates.
Susan, Miss Willems.
Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarters
iif a dollar —and Gallery, half a dollar.
For Frederickjburgb and
Falmouth,
(Rappahannock River, Virginia)
CTfck. THE SCHOONER
FriendJJjip,
Henry Macnamara, Master,
Will fail on Saturday next. For freight of
pafTage apply to the Captain on board, at
John Wall/8 Wharf, or to
Emanuel Walker.
WHO HAS FOR SALF,
TOBACCO, FLOUR,
VIRGINIA
WHEAT, and GINSENG.
March j. 3tswf
Philadelphia, March 1, »794-
JUST PUBLISHED,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Mar lit Jlrcct,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modem Geography
OR, A
Geographical, Hijlorical, and
Commercial Grammar;
And piefent state of the several
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAINI NG,
I. The figures, motions, and distances of
the planets, according to the Newtonian sys
tem and the latest observations.
2. A general view of the earth, considered
as a planet; with several ufeful geographical
definitions and problem*.
3. The grand diviftons of the globe into
laud a'id watery continents and iftands.
4. The situation and extent of empires,
kingdom*, states, provinces and colonies.
5- Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, metals, minerals, natural curi
ofitie*, Teas, riversj bays,capes, promontories*
aud lakes.
6. The birds and beasts peculiar to each
country.
7. Observations on the changes that hav€
been any observed upon the lace of na
ture since the mod earjy periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations; their
forms o( government, religion, laws, reve
nues, taxes, naval and military strength.
9. The genius, manners, customs, and ha
bits of she people.
Jo. Their language,learning,arts,fciences,
manufa<stu*es, and commerce.
1 i. The chief cities, ftruftures, ruins, and
artificial curiosities.
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
distances of principal places from Philadelphia.
To which are added.
t. A Geographical Index, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Table of the Coins of all nations, and
leir value in dollars sind cents.
3. A Chronological Table of remarkable
events, from the creation to the present time*
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Astronomical Part corrected by
Dr. Rittenhouse.
To whlc% have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herschfll,
and other eminent Astronomers,
The FfRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrcfted, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firft volume contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, besides two Astronomical Plates,
viz.
f. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world.
3. Europe. 4- Asia. 5. Afrira. 6. South-
America. 7. Cook's difcoveties. 8. Coun
tries round she north Pole, 9- Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway, so. Seven United Pro
vinces. 11 Auftiian, Fiench and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. 13 Seat of war
in France. 14. France divided into depart
ments. 15. Switzerland. :6. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. 17- Spain and Po-tugal.
Tuskey in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 20. 2i. Vermont. 22. Ar
miliary sphere. 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now iri
the press, will be given the following Maps 4
1. Ruflia in Europe and Asia.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
$. China.
6. Hindoftan.
7. United State's.
8. Britilh America.
9. S<afe of New-Hampfhirfj
xO. State of MaffaChufetts.
U, State of Conne^'cut.
12. State of Rbodt* Island.
j3- State of New-Yoik.
State c f New-Jersey.
15 State of Pennsylvania.;
j6. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19- State of Kentucky.
20. State of Not th-Carolinaj
it. Tenneflc-e Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia.
TERMS,
1. Subscribers pay for the present volum* ori
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, $6 cents for boajds.
2. They may receive the fticreeding volurtie
' in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finifhed, at
\ the fame price as the fir ft.
3. The subscription will be raised on the firff
day of June i 794» to fourteen dollars, ex
clusive of binding.
4. Should any copies remain for faje after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
The names of the subscribers will be pub
lished as patrons of American literature,
arts, and sciences.
It" «• wholly unnecessary to expatiate on the
advantage to American readers, that this edi
tion poflefTes, over every imported edition of
airy fvftem of Geog apby extant. The addi
tion of maps of the teveral state , procured at
a very great e*penfe, and from the best ma
terials that.are attainable, speak such full
Convf&ion that it would be an infolf to the
reader's underftand'ng to suppose it requisite
to enter into-a detail of arguments to prove
its advadtage. In no similar work bave such
maps been ever fritrAdueed.
The emendations and additions Which oc
cur in this work, are innumerable, and occtit'
in every page. The public are referred to
the preface for a flight (ketch of a lew of
them.
The pnblififeT takes the present oppo» tn
nity of letorning his most sincere thanks to
those refpcttable charatters who hare favored
him with documents for improving th* maps
of several of the ftatcs. He requests a eonti
nuance of their kindness;- and hopes that foch
public Tpirited citizens, as are pofTeiTcd of fi
nvlar documents, will favor him with their
a (li fiance in perfedling his Hndertakit g.
The extraordinary encouragement with'
which this work has been favored, has excited
in his breast ihe warmed sentiments of grati
tude—sentiments which time will not efface.
He pledges himfelf to the citizens of the
United States, to spare neither pains nor ex
pense to render the present edition of Guthrie'*
Geography improved, deferviDg of their pa
tronage. waffcfTo be Sold ot Public Vendue,
On Friday the iithday of April next,
at the house of John < TbmiJon y in Perth*
Ainboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY
r T~ , HE Lot cbrttarns elefui a£>» s orV which is
1 an o'chard of g»ahtd apple t»er«, a well of
excellriVt water, a laigr store c stern, and a very
ftahh ahd coach-hoafr, and « great
qoau'tsv of the best htu-lding ft«»nes in the walls
o' the houf»-v whith was fmmerly built lor the
lefi.tenfcc of the Governors of Ncw-Jr rfcy. The
fiiu•>( ior. of this lot is f;> well known !or its
heai'hin-.-fs and tcauiful p»ofpc£t of .he Rari'On
rivet to the vvtft of the bav, and Sandy-Hook to
the c.ift, thai a fhither diTcription is u'nn ceffjry.
The conditions of fair will V, one third of the
ptire.hafo money 'o be paid on the fivft day of
May next, when a good and foflieirnt Deed will
b< givert to the poichafcr, by Waltrr RU
THiRFUiD, Esq. Pic fid em of Ihe Boaid of
Proprietor of the E'.iftf'rn' DivYfirm of New-
Jfifev, and tfce remaining two thvdfi fati*fa&o
nly secured in rqtnl annual payment*.
By ordtr of the Hoard.
JAMF.S PARKER, Regiftcr.
Perth-Ambey. Tibruary 5, 1 794. inwzm
JAMES LEACH,
R ESPF.CTFUI.LV informs his friends and
ihe public, That from the encouragement
he halleceWcA, ff«»ni fe'vfffl u'fpefteblc Gentle
mrn, he is indnted oncf more, to 1 mbark in the
I'APhR LlNE—artd wfnild off<*!iis ftivicei'to
all thofc GentU m 11, who can place confidence
»n hiw'i and h allures those who employ him,
that th< i» confidence shall not be mitplaced;—
Km it shall be his constant endeavor, ro pay the
ftn&vft attention to their bell interell, in all ne*
gociat ions whatever. He has taken the Chamber,
in State-Street, Mr. David /obinfend. Watch
Make.'* Shop. Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES. ol all kinds* art bought and fold; and
■wh'eic*Coimniftion Bufnu f* of all kiwis, will be
tranf $ed ofi rfrafohaMe Urttft. HOUSES and
VFSSFI S wilf be tonilanlly ekpofed lor fak, on
eofnftvfTlon
* t * CasH ptifi for Sakm, PVovideftee, and
Potrlnwuih BlLl S.
N. B If any GenTtjt M«rt ih PhitaddphU, o r
JVew-Yorl. has any I'njinijy to ttntifatl at Rojlen*
in Paper" N<-oooitio*>s, hi will be happy to be gm
plo\eti on comm'/fion.
H"ftoTv, Jan. 24, if 94.
War Department.
January 3Olh 1794.
INFORMATION is hneby given to alUthe
military invalids of the United States,that the
sums to which they are entitled for fix month*
of their annua,] petition, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on •he sth day of March 1794, on
the (aid day by the ComYrt: (nonets of the Loans
wiihm the dates rcfpe&ively, under the usual re-
gulanons.
Application# of executors and administrators
mutt he accompani«d'with legal evidence of
their refpedive officii, andalfo of thetimc the
invalids died, whose peofirm they may claim.
By command of thePrcftd.ni
of the United State*,
H. KNOX,
Sectrtary oj War.
(£3" The printers in the refpc&ive states are
requeued to publish the ab >vc 1 h their newfpfc-
rs tor the Ipace of iwo mom hi.
Januaty 30,
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR KALE. RY
M. Carey, No. 118, High-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
CommentAnr on Common Sating* and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the world,
r "I~" , HIS little book is written in a stile altogether
1 novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all clafTcs of people, merchans, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
woi It acquired, that it h*s paCTed thro three im
prcflions in the eastern dates, and many houle.
holders deem it so ufetul as to purchase a copy
for everv adult in theii families. -—Price as.
February 4. dtf
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the fubferiber has been duly ap
pointed Administratrix on the eft ate of
Ws Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, decealed, and
has taken upon herfelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law difeft*—and all persons in.
terefted, are desired to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Bolton, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
ALL persons who have any demands against
Ihe Estate of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to rhe Subfbtiher, Attorney
to the Adminiftratri* of fa id Estate : And all
pfcrfonl who (land indebted to said Estate, are
requeued to fetrle with him immediately J as the
AJft of Limitation of Altions, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
otherAvife render it neceflary for him 10 com
mence fairs again ft tftem.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
N. B The Printer* throughout tftis Com
iffnnwealrtifAre requcHed to insert this in their
retyeftive and forward their ae
•oufltvfbr tbc Bime r to J, M
BOOKS.
A CHOICE COLLECTION,
In the various branches of Literature, im
ported by thf lad arrivals from Europe,
for Sale at very reai'onable prices, by
James Kennedy,
No. 26, Spruce* between Front iff id Streets^
Aniorg which are the following :
CHAMBf\RS v S Dr&ionary oi Atta and Sci
ences, 5 Vols/ Folio.
H nry'i Bible and Commentary, 6 Vols. Folio.
UfltocH.il Hiftdry, ? Vo'i Folio.
ChufrhUPs Colledl.onol Voyage*, l 6 Vols. Folio.
Pallidums Archfteduie, best hdmou, »VoU.
Foho in one.
Raptn's History of England, with Tindal'scon
tinuation, g Vols, Folio.
Hunt's Hi (lory of ditio. wuh StnoHet'* ditto.
14 Vols. o£U*o.
Ma I ion 's complete Treatise of Perfpcftive, »
Vols, in one.
B>ucc's Travels, Lotion F.ditrcm, 5 Vols. 4to.
Clavigero's Hiftoty of Mexico, s do. do.
Robertfon's Hiftoty of America, a do. do.
Mbchurin's Newton's Philosophy, 4m.
Harmony of the Gdfpels, do..
Lowman on the Revelations, do.
Lockc on the Epistles, do.
Led wick's Antiquities of Ireland, do.
Whitehntft's Theory of the Earth, do.
Gl-fs's Account of the Canary Islands, do.
The Anhonl Rtgifter, from its Commencement
to 1791, inclwfive, 34 Vols.
N'iebuhr's Voyage to Arabia, 1 Veils, Oilavo.
Binram's Travds thro' the Southern States.
Some of tht vety lateft'and best Cotlc&ions of
Voyages and Travel*.
Ocvicrs Livetof the Kowin Etnpcrort 10 Vol*.
o£lavr».
L'Amiquiic expliqnfcc par B. Montlaucon, 15
so.
Anpqui.&d'Egypte paT Norden.
Di&ionuaiie Hiftorique o Tom.
Tin at re'de Voltaire eleg. relic, 9 Tom.
Hiftoire Romnn par Itollin, 16 Tom
Oeuvres dr Boileau,de Molten, 3cc. with many
others equally good. A Catalogue of wKich
may be seen a! the place of Saie.
He has also for Safe,
An excellent Hadley'i Quadrant.
A few Acfomati- Pocket Pfcrfpe&ive GlafTej.
A Camera ObfCura.
A capital German Flute, with 6 Keys, and ad
ditional joints.
And a few elegant colour'd" Piints.
Feb. 28
George Bringhurft,.
COACH-MAKER,
Hi Mulberry (Afch) between Foorth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Epifcojtal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to hts former employers,
and requ<?fting their future favors, as well as
thofeof the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at tht
Ihorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
Aach as coaches, chariots, phastons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windl'of fulkeys and chairs, and harness
of every defcrijnion, in the neatest and newest
fa (hi on now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the heft seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaftion to tho'e whopleafe to employ him.
He has for sale, fever a) carriages alinoft
finilhed, such as an Italian wind for
chair, hung on steel fpringv a light phecton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
d*m
Carriages fold on Commission.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794 ni&tgm
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Reprcfentattves,
DECLMIKK tift, 1793.
WHEREAS the Commissioners of public
Accounts, have reported, that they can
not proceed to the investigation of the Treasury
Accounts, refpefting fprcial Indent, without
knowing the out (landing amount thereof in cir
•ulation :—Tbcrcforc,
Refolocd, That all holder! of fpectal Indents
be directed, and required, on or before the firft
day of November n-x<, to deliver the fprcial In
dents in their pofftflion to one or other of the
Commifltonert of the Treasury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to report to the Com*
miflioners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
thera refpeftively received, and also to the Le.
g.flature, at their meeting in November next.
And that all fpeciat Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on ®r before the firft day
of November next, (hall be, and the fame are
hereby barred.
Xejo/ved, That public notice of this resolution
fee given j n the fevers I Gazettes in rhis State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November nent. And that the Delegates®f this
State in the Congress of the United States, be re
quested to cause this relolution to be publiftied
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for the cxpencea attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
Senate for their concurrence.
By order of the Hoiffe,
JOHN JANFORD DART, C.H.K.
In the SENATE,
DXCKMIKR *1(1,1793.
Fejolved, That this House do concur with the
House of Representatives in the foregoing refu
tations.
Ordered, That the resolutions be sent to the
House ot Representatives.
By order of the Senate,
rtLIX WARLfcY, Cltrk.
ewtNt*.
FOR
By MATHFW CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery:
Deigned to exhibit in a new point ol view,
iis effe&s on morals, indujlry, and the peace of
ockt\. Some la£U and calculation! arc ofiered
to prove* the labor of Jieeneii to be much more
produffivt than that ol fives ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the ncctlFdry eonclufion, that
(lavcry is impolitic as well as unjvjl.
Price Cents.
February 15,
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Will-It reel, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfclf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, begs leave to of
r his ferviccsto his friends and others, in the
line ol a Stock. Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
upon having it tranfafted with the utrooil fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boflon, or any
other part of the United State;, will be llrilUy
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
Philadelphia, February 13,1794.
PROPOSALS
For printing by Subscription,
A Work, to be entitled,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Peunfylvania State Trials.
want of fufficient information of the
1. (late trials of Gieai-Britain in the early
periods of that government is now lamented :
Hi herto there ha>h been but one trial in the
state of Pennsylvania on impeachment :—ar.d
here also it :* to be regretted, that, being neg
lected at the time, the public are now left with
out fufficient information on the fubjeft of that
trial, u it however in this work designed to ref
cliefwhat can be colle&ed thereof from fourcea
of indifputaple authority, f 0 that the fame ihall
be prcferved from oblivion.
Anoiher impeachment and the second ir now
depending. An officer it charged by the late
Honfe of Representatives, who hath for many
years been largely confided in by this state, and
hath long been at the head of the financial de
partment of the fa mt, and it imports the citi
zens 10 know hitconduft, and the circumstances
which may be brought forward on his trial.
*4 tfo P.
lathis work the Editor will be careful to
state the fa£ta, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers before
the public.—With thia view—
7he following Terms are refpcfifully
submitted to the Public :
I. The Work ihall be printed in o&avo, with a
good type, on fine paper, and delivered to
fubferibera at the refpeflive places where the
fub'criptions are taken in, as soon as the woik
(hall he compleated.
11. As no eonjeflure can well be made, as to
the length of the prcfent trial, the fire of the
volume cannot be ascertained at this time
But the price (ball not exceed that of fomeof
the lfteft publication* in this city.
111. It will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental cfrcunaftancea that may occur during
the trial of John Nicholfon, Esquire, Comp
troller-General of this commonwealth, with
the arguments ofcounfel o» both fides, together
with the articlca of impeachment, and the
pleas and replications at large, the several re
solutions of the two branches of the state Le
gislature, refpe&ine this impeachment, and
the final decifien of the SENATE refpe&ing
that officer.
To which will be prefixed, as much as can be
colle&ed from authentic documents, of the im
peachment, trial, and aequitai of the late Francis
Hopkinfon. Esquire, Judre of the Court of
Admiralty for the state of Prnnfylvania, during
the late - war, never before pnblifhed.
No money will be required before the deli
very of the book.
Subscriptions will be received by Francis
Bai.'ey, No. 116, High-Areet ; Wrigley and Ber
riman, No. 149, Chefnut-ftreet, and by the dif
ferent booksellers in thi« city; Jacob Bailey,
Lancaster ; Yu«dt and Baltimore, and
by the Editor.
EDMUND HOGAN.
N. B. The price will be enhanced to non
fubfcribers. Feb. tB. taw tf
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON the 31ft of lad month, the fuhfcribrr ad
d reded a letter to MefFrs. Thomas PearfaU
& Son, merchants in Ncw-Yoik, and iuclofed
therein a bank note, No. 445, for twenty dol
lars ; one ditto, No. 151, tor thirty dollars;
and one ditto. No. 3,866, for twenty dollars.
—He also addr«fled a letter to Mr. Gilbert
Saltonjlall, merchant in New-Yotic, inclosing a
bank bill, No. 148, for fifty dollars, indorsed
on ihe back thereof in theft- words—'• Pa} ihe
within to Mr. Gilbert Saltonjlall—Fbcn. Hunting
fair.''—He also addressed a letter to Messrs. White
& WardeU s meichant* in New-Yo'k, and inclo
sed a bank bill for ten dollars, and a draft in fa
vor of said White & War dell, which letters were
put in the Poft-Oflfice on said 31ft January, to
be forwarded to New-York : But by letters re
ceived from the Gentlemen to whom they were
severally addressed, the money was robbed
from each letter before delivery.
The Public are requeued to endeavor a dej
tedion of the Villains who committed the aho v
robbery. The bill indorsed, I think was a York
bank bill, and fotne others, one or more was
of the United Sta'es bank, remitted at Philadel*
phia. Any person difcoveiing the Thief, and
returning the Money, (hall be entitled to fifty
dollars reward.
EBEN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, 14th Feb. 1794. jw^taw
A RECOMPENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby offered by the Pcefrdent and Direc.
tors of the Bank of the United States, to any
peiTon who (hall, on or before the fit ft d«y of
May next, produce to them such a plan and ele
vation of a Btnking House, as (hall be approved
of by them.—-A plain, yet handTottie Iront it
d'fiied : The whole building is to be fubftantia)
and commodious with as much space around it,
as the Cue of the gtound will admif.
The Lot on which the building is to be erefl
ed, is situated on the weft fide of Third-street,
between Chefuut and Walnut-streets in Phila
delphia ; and its dimensions are no feci oa
Third-street, *nd about too feet westward.
THOMAS WILLING, Prefidcnt.
k 'P 3W.
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, deduSing 15 per Cent, from
the Prizes—this Lottery conjijls of
38,000 Tickets, in •which there are
14,539 Prizes and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Directors of the Society for establishing
Ufef»l Manufactures, having resolved to
ere£t LOTTERIES for railing Oni Hundrid
Thousand Dol l ar s, agreeably to an A£l of
the Lrgiflature of the State of New-Jersey, have
appointed the following persons to superintend
and direst the drawing of the fame, viz. Nicho-'
las Low, Rufus King, Herman Le Roy, Jjanie*
Watson, Richard Harrifon, Abijah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray,, of the city Of New-Yoik—
Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthew M'Con.
nel and Andrew Bayard, of the city of Phila
delphia—His Excrllency Richard Howeli, Esq.
Elias Boudinot, General Elias Dayton, Janvs
Parker, John Bayard, Do&or Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton, Joshua M. Wallace, Jbfepk-
Bloomficld, and Elifha Boudinot, of Nrw-Jer*-
fey, who offer the following Schcme of a Lot-
and pledge themselves to the public, that
they will take every aflurance and precaution iiv
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from time tt» time, as received, into
the Banks at New-Yorkand Philadelphia, to
remain for the purpofeof paying Priz s, which
shall be immediately discharged by a' check
upon one of the Banks.
SCHEME:
v Ftitc of 20,000 Dollars is ao,co»
10,000
10,000
5,000
s ,000
»,coo
500.
too
so
11
ICO
300
ICOO
a 00 0
0060
fcioo
J 4»539 *62,000
93,461 Blanks, F*rft drawn number, «,000
Laftdrawn number, *,000.
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollar* each is 566,00*
The drawing will commence, under the in
fpe&ion of a Committee of the Superintendents*
as soon as the Tickets are fold,ot which timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendents have appointed John \ r .
Cumming, of Newaik, Jacob R. Hardenberg,
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample security for difcbarging the
trust reposed in them.
In order 10 fecurethe pun&ual payment
of the Prizes, the Superintendantsof the Lottery
have dire&ed that the Manager! (Kail each enter
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four
fecuriii s, to perform their inftrufttons, the sub
stance of which ia
I. That whenever either of the Managers
(hall receive the sum of Three Hundred Dollai*,.
he (hall immdiately place the fame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
cicdit of the Governor of the Society, and such
of the Superintendants as live in the cvty where
the oaonica are placed»to remain there until the
Lottery rs d rawn, for the payment of the Prizes.
11. The Manager* to take fufficient (ecurity
for any Ticketa they may trust, otherwise to be
rcfponfible for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold.
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ftrafls of which shall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to etther of the above gentle,
men, information will be given where tickets
may be had.
February *4.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible fituation,—alio a Conntry Seat
within 6 miles of tlie City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of iand and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
°f* the city, in size or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23.
TO BE SOLD,.
THE Fount of LONG PRIMERy
on which the Gazette of the United'
Sute« was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Edito*.
PHILADELPHIA :
Piimt£J» BY JOHN FENNO, No. a.
South Fsurtk-Street.
10.000
jo.ooo
10,000
10,000
15,000
»n,oc9
30,000
36,000
81,000
tawtf.
m&th—tf