evening advertiser.
[No. 60 of Vol. V.]
Philadelphia, February 13, 1704.
PROPOSALS
For printing by Subfcriprion,
A 10 be c- tilled,
THE HRST VOl TME OF
Pcti7tfylvania Slate Trials.
THE want ol luffincot information of the
state trials ol Gieat-Britain in the early
periods of that government is now lamented :
Hi heno there hath been bat one trial » the
state of Pennsylvania on impeachment : ar.d
here also 11 ts to he legretied, thatj beiug neg
io&cd at the time* the public are now left with
out fofficient information on the fubje& of that
trial, it ir however in th»a woik defined toref
cte what can be enllc&ed iheitof fioro fouice*
of indifputaple authority, f Q that the ftmq (hall
be preserved from oblivion.
Audther impeachment »,,d the second is mw
deptndirjr. An ©ffiret it chained by the
Hortfeof R.eprefentanvc*, who hath for many
vcarj largely confided in by this (tare,and
imth long b en at ihe head of the financial de
piftrmni of the fame, and it import* theeili*
ztts to know his eondufl, and the circumstances
>#hirh may be brought foi ward i n hi* ti ial.
In this work the £d.ttor will be earful to
the facts, as thev mav be brought forward,
Aid t«> lay all the evidence and papers before
4>lf TMlhljc.—Will rkit virw
The following Terms are rtfpeftftitfy
fitbmitted to the Public :
I» The Work shall be pr;n:ed lu octavo, with a
gCod type, on fine paper, and delivered to
fubferrbers at the refprftive plares whe»e the
sub fori prions are taken in, as soon as the woik
rhaTl be comp'raied.
It. As no ro'njiftore can well be made, as to
the length of the p»efi-nt trial, the fire of the
volume cannot be afecrtamed at this lime—
Hut the pt icc lhal 1 not excced that of some of
Ibe latcfi publications in thise'rty.
111. ft will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental rircumflances thai mar occur riming
t)ir trial of John Rficholfon, E(quire, Comp
troller-General of this commonwealth, wnh
chearguments of counfrl on both fides,together
with the articles of impeachment, and the
pleas and replication* at large, the fcveral re
solution* of the two branches of the Rate Le
fiflaiure, refptfiing this impeachment, and
the final dectfion of the SENATE refpe&ing
that officer.
7"f> which will be prefixed, as much as can be
calUfted fiom authentic documents, of the im
peichment, trial, and aequital of ihe lale Francis
H'jpkinfon, Efqujte, Judge <»f the Court of
Admiralty for the state of Pennsylvania, during
the la\e war, never before pnblifhed.
Nu money will be required before the deli
very *>f the book.
Subscriptions will be received by Fr?nefs
Bailey, No. 116, High-street ; Wriglry and Bcr
riman, No. 149, Chclnui-ftrcet, and by the dif
ferent bookftlters m this ciiv; Jacob Bailev,
Lane after ; Yundt and Patton, Baltimore, and
by the Editor.
EDMUND HOG AN.
N. B. The piier will he enhanced to non
fchferibets. Feb. 18. taw if
THIS DAT IS PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
At ibe St<Tnr Hnufe, N«>. 41, South Seroucl-ftreet,
(Price three-eighths of a dollar)
THE
Speeches of Mr. Smith,
OF SOUTH-CAROLINA.
Slivered in the Hnufe of Representatives of
tbe United States in January, 1794, on the sub.
of certain Commekcul Ricoiationi,
proposed by Mr. Maduon, in the committee
•f che whole, on the report of the Secretary of
State.
To <zuhieh is annexed.
A TABLE, exhibiting the Compa
*RT». vs. footing ot the Commiicc of the
Unitrci Suites, with the Dominions of France
and (Sreai-Biitain, prior 10 the pending Revo
lution of France. Feb. 15. 6t.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. i6 t Wall-street, New-York
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfdf
miirely to the PURCHASE &SALfcor
STOCKS on COMMISSION, bigs leave to of
fer hia lervict sto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may pleafc
to fstor h«m with their business, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the utinoft fide
lity >r.d dispatch.
Order& hoin Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United Si«ic«, will he ftri&ly
an.i.dcd to. LFONARD BLEECKF.R.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
I Nan eligible situation, —also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
laird, or 42 acre-; of Jand and meadow, the.
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of tl»ecity, in size or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23. m&tb—tf
of tfie & fates
p" tb' Editor has repeatedly been
fubjeded to poftagc on tie Letters of perfotu ■,
who have in that way applied to purchase
the b aunt of Long Primmer which he has
forfait —those who tvi/h to buy those types,
are informed that the priee is twenty cents
per pound, cafh —to be paid at their delive
ry—ihe fount weighs about IJOfo.
Cj" Proposals having been Jmbli/hed lajt
autumn, for continuing the Gazette of the
United States as an half weekly paper, in
conjtinflion with a daily paper, frequent ap
plications (poflage unpaid) are made byper
font at a diflancc for the former —tut as the
terms proposed on that occajion were not com
plied with, the plan tf an half weclly paper
is relinqui/hed.
City Cominiffioners Office,
January 30, 1794.
IN purfoancc of a Kelo.v. of ihe Cmuuufn
Council, d»ted the 20th clay of January,
4794. for dividing the City into five Dillridi,
l»y lines drawn E»ft and Weft, whereof each of
the City Commift'ioners is to take ihe fuperin
tcndance o! one of the laid Diftr<£ls, and to be
accountable lor the cleansing, good older anil
regularity of the fame.
I he Cominiflionert h*ve accordingly made
the following arrangement for the prefer.t >
DiJlrifl the \JI. N«»'han Boys, to have the
'hargeol that part of the ftrects, lanes and alleys
from Cidar-ftreei, trr the north fide of Spruce
it »eet
DiJitiQ the ad. Hwgli Roberts, from the north
fide of Sprurc-ftrcct to the north fide «f Walnut
ttrert.
Di[tn£l ike $d. Joseph Clavooole, from fhd
north fide of Walnut to the loath tide ol Hi«h
ftiret.
Dijlud the 4th. William Moulder, froro the
north fide of High, lo the north fide of Mulberry
lhcet
Diflrift the SM, Nicholas Hicks, from ihe
north fide ol Mulbcny, to the north fide of Vine
street.
N B. The carriage way in MufccUftrect,
under llic ebtrge of ilie Commiflioners generally,
♦or the prefenr, the foouways on the north and
south fides thereof, are connc&ed with the ad
joining D ftriils rcfpedtively.
By MATHFW CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery:
Defighed to exhibit in a new point of view,
its effedts on indujlry, and the peace of
ociety. Some facts and calculations are offered
to prove the labor oljrtemen 10 be much more
produßire than that of JLaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the teccdaty conclusion, that
slavery is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 2$ Cents.
February 15. «j t f
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
F»rmerlr Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Cojec-Houfc »f thu
Cfy :—
RfcSPECTFULLY informs hw Friends and
the Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in be
tween Third and Fourth-Streets, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly improved, and is now
very commodious ; where he has turmfhed him«
fell with the best of LIQUORS, and will fur.
nifh a TABLE for Parties, with-the best provi
sions the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
Ihorteft notice. From his long experience in
this line of bufinel*, he flatters him fclf be (ball
be able to give fattsfa&ion to all who may please
to favor bim with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29, 1794.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldfmttbs Ss" Jewellers,
No. 42,
STJUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant Affortmcnt of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY &Jm CUTLERY,
Which they dilpote of on the most rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair. Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and iilver
way, done as
December 24-
Thursday, February 20, 1794.
Exl-afl frm the Minute j,
JOHN MEASE, CM.
FOR SJLEj
atwfcfcf
LATEST
Foreign Intelligence.
VIENNA, Nov. 13,
Difpatcbes of such importance have
been received from our ambassador at Ber
lin, as not only to occasion an immediate
conference, but the immediate fending of
meflengfcrs to all the court»in alliance with
our's.
MANHEIM, Nov. 21
Relative to the unfortunate attack tp
on Bitche we learn, that 1600 Prussians
were at one time actually in the place, but
were after a severe conflict, driven out.
this gave the French courage, and they
immediately attacked the Whole cordon,
and retook Bliefcaftel, and all the polls
on the Blife.
PARIS, Nov. 22,
In the fc(lions of the 23d a letter was
read from the representatives of the peo
ple at Straftmrg, mentioning that they
had attacked the enenty on the 18th at
three points, and after a brisk action,took
a redoubt, and had hopes of being at
Weiffembourg next dap
Decreed upon the proposal of Ruhl,
that advantage ihould be taken of the ad
vance of the victorious armies into Ger
many to make the inhabitants of Frank
fort pay the 2 millions imposed on them
by Cuftine.
In the feflions of the 25th a letter was
read from the representatives of the peo
ple with the army of the MofeUe, dated
Deux Ponts, Nov. 31, in which the
whole progress of the army it mentioned
to taking poffeflion of Deux Ponts,which
they did without opposition.
In the fame feflions a letter from Straf.
burg, dated Nov. 19, stated affigoats and
money to be at par in that city.
Several churches sent their plate to the
convention.
LONDON, Dec. 4.
By accounts from France there is advice
that the Royalist army is divided into 2
columns, one of which went again ft Gran
ville, the other went igainft St. Maloes.
December 6.
Different fetters were yesterday receiv
ed in town, which confirm the report giv
en in our last paper of the success of lord
Howe's fleet capturing 5 fail of French
men of war.
The French have flopped their newspa
pers from coming out of the country for
a fliort time ; it is supposed they have
some secret they wish not to be made pub
lic.
The Frankfort Gazette of the 29th
ult. announces, that within 2 days Lan
dau would be in the power of the Auftri
ans.
The head quartersof the Prince? of Co
bourgarenowat Mons. The French in
the mght between the 23d. and 24th ult.
precipitately abandoned the town and dit
trift of Beaumont.
M. Chambon, the fugitive deputy froirr
the National Convention, was found con
cealed in a farm Eoufc, and facriiSced by
the people.
Towards the conclusion of the leflion
of the National Convention of the 2£th
ult. Chenier made a report refpefting the
crimes imputed to the memory of Count
de Mirabeau. After entering into a rela
tion of his political career, and enumera
ting the services he had rendered his coun
try, he accused him of being a pattifan of
royalty, under the veil of being a teal'ous
advocate for the people, for the purfofe
of advancing his own interests, and moved
that Gabriel Riquetti Mirabeau should be
removed from the Pantheon, and Marat
placed in his (lead which the Convention
deereed.
[Whole No- 51 B,]
LAW OF THE UNION,
THIRD COtfGftESS OF THE
UNITED STATES,
AT THE FUST «ESSl01«,
Begun and held at the city of Philadefphi*,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Monday
she second of December, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-three*
-ACTproviding for the relief of such
of the liihabiltints of Saint Domingo, re-
Jident within the United States, as ma/
be found in want of fupporti
EC ' '' hy the Senate and
-13 House of Representatives of
the United States of America, in Congress
aj/embled, That a sum not exceeding fif
teen thousand dollars, be, and the fame
is hereby appropriated to be paid out of
any monies which may be fn the treasury,
arising from foreign loans, for the sup
port of such of tbe Inhabitant! of Saint
Domingo, resident within the United
States, as shall be found in want of such
support.
Sec. it /ind he it further enaSett, "That
ii> order to secure the due application of
«he monies aforefaid, the fame (hall be
placed under the direction of the Presi
dent of the United States} and it foall
be lawful for him to draw the said monies,
or any part thereof, from the treasury of
the United States, and to cause the distri
bution thereof to be made, for the relief
of the persons aforefaid, in fucb manner',
and by the hands of such persons, as shall
in the opinion of the President, appear
mod conducive to the humane purposes of
thi» act.
Sec. J, And be it further enattcJ, that
a regular fiatenWilt and account bekept of
the monies so expended, and being fod
ged in the office of the treasury depart
ment, the amount thereof (hall be provi
fronaliy charged to the debit of the
French republic, fubjeft to such future ar
rangements as {hall be made thereon be
tween the government of the United States
and the said republic/ Provided however,
that unlefc the French Republic or its
minister or other authorized agent, (hall
within fix months from the palfing of this
expressly authorize a charge to t,he
debit, of the said Republic of the said
supplies which (hall have been, or may be
made under this ast, all further supplies
under the fame, (hall, from and after the
expiration of the feid ferm of fix months,
be discontinued.
Frsdi*jcr Avffvs-rvs MffHXEHBSKC,
Speaker of the Koufe of
Rcprefcntati*ea.
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United States and President
of the Senate,
Approved February the 7
twelfth, 1794. t
G®. Washington, President of t&e
United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office
of the Secretary of State,
£dm. Randolph,
Secretary of State,
For tßi Gazetts of the Unitsd Sr*rss.
Mr. Fejjno,
WHILST the sons of pleasure, and
the devotees of Comus, triumph in the
victory which they have obtained over
the iriduftrious and serious part of the
community, with regard to Theatrical en
tei tainments, they ought to beware of
infniting the feelings of their mourning
fellow-citizens. There are many of this
description, who cannot forget those tre
mendous scenes of desolation and woe,
which were exhibited here a few months'
since ; whose hearts still bleed at the re
tolleftion of many dear and valuable
friends torn from their embrace, and the
pictures of distress which they daily saw ;
but which the gay and wealthy patrons of
pernicious amusements cannot realize, as
mod of them fled trembling, to a dittance.
Those children of misfortune have no*:!i(h for the artificial tragedies of the
flags, iince the afftAing and tragic::*
h:biiiou of Providence "i this city by the
flau glilcring angels of deft- notion ; their
tender fenlibilities are not in unison, with
the farcical humours of the stage; and they
feelafecrct horTor at thecallous diiVrgnrti
of their feltifh and trifling hrethteiH M
of them are the induiinou« ikkir, who
fcave not the means of Hying from the din
gerof infeftir>rt,(hould a Itilential scourge
again chaltife lis for our fins and cfpecial
ly for our contempt of the late divine
judgement. They are a verv numerous
class of citizen-, and thev cannot but feel
indignation at the conduit of anTee'iing
men, who having provided the means, as
they suppose of retreat, in cafe of another
visit from the Peltilential fever next Sum
mer, are in the mean time, by their pro
fanenels, blasphemies, sensualities and dis
sipation* of various kinds, provoking the
wrath of Heaven, to humble the pride of
the city, and leave their brethren to
fuffer under the llroke, which in fiich cases
is always general. They are surprized at
the inconsistency of the wealthier citizens,
who tremble at every whisper of probable
danger, who appear to have provided the
means of escape, under the apprehension
of another judgment ; and vet, in the
mean while, are madly bent upon plcafures
which hnve been unanfwerablv proven to
be the deftru&ion of virtue and morals.—
It would therefore be prudent in those
who feel themselves in a disposition to in
dulge in ditfipstion at every hazard, to
beware of pushing their trinmph too far,
left they kindle a flame which will not be
cafy to extinguilh, and which may jJi ove
fatal to their schemes of pleasure.
People of real tale and sentiment are
not only disgusted at the filly encomiums
which are so indiscriminately publilhed
upon the ftage-conduftors lately arrived ;
but people who have fuffered the extreme
of misfortune, feel themf-lves irritated and
insulted, at the pains Tvh'ch are taken to
make an ostentatious display of feftivity
111 ciicumftantes like ours.
P. S. The players should be careful .not
to permit their juvenile and indiscreet
friends to be too lavish of encomiums upon
their ch;ira<s\er and performances, left it
Ihould induce a minute examination into
tluir merit, which might prove unfavora
ble to their cause. ■ It will readily be
conceived, that filch a p::negyi!(l as the
author < f the remarks upon the actors in
the Gazette of Tuesday, is one who has
nevfcr known much of the world, or of
1 urr,r.n nature ; he would otherwise have
known, that artificial tones and gestures,
Sue, are fir from being unrivalled or ini
mitable. He would have expe&ed that
the public Wculd sneer, at hearing of one
being " unrivalled," a second " without a
competitor," and another, " eveiy thing
that one could wish." Above all, he
might have been sure of the broadest
l: ; '.i"h of ridicule at his nonsensical jargon
of NTifp -— having " th&rified the gods."
I wi(h Mr. — may not be thought next to
love electrified those who are sometimes
focliftily enough called goddefTes.
For th; G/izr i ts. of thi United'
Mi. Fenno,
It is often difficult to prove the designs
of i>nrty; it is however fair ground to
charge mcafurcs of the word tendency to
the word intentions. It is trying men by
their afrions, which are surer proofs than
those solemn words that ufuaSy preface
thi fouled Ichemes. Indeed such men u
sually have all their patriotism in their
months, while their hearts are full of all
manner of wickedness. On these princi
ples, the public has seen in a proper light
the war contrivances of a hired French
party in this oountry. The incendiaries
were supposed to fink under the weight
of public indignation, and the firebrands
and daggers were thought to have drop
ped from their hands. Mr. Bache's papar
is crowded with proof that this is not
true. Read the sensible and moded reso
lutions of the Democratic Society, and
r'oubt if you can, that they are vile. They
are either the work of a foreigner, or of
an American who has the heart of a rene
pado. • Such fetitiments spring from a
bosom tl-T* is alien and hodile to the peace
and honor of this country. To comment
upon them i« labor lod to him that reads
them. They speak as plain French as can
he written. It is the evil genius of a cer
tain diplomatic man of truth and decency
to do exrftly what he (hould not, to car
ry his points. He prints his inllruA.ions
to undeceive all his dupes, and to disarm
iii hia champions. By that act, he threw
diigrace, and what is attrayi worse for a
party, 1 ridictilc upon all the solemn and
circumftaritial falsehoods which impu
dence had piled up, like a rampart, for his
defence. He furnilhed. fails,and coming
horn an enemy, facts that lilenccd for a
time even the hired clamor of impudence.
On the authority of his own duc.iments,
the people now know that the vigilance
and firmnefs of their firft magistrate pre
vented the most pernicious Ichemes by nip
ping them in the bud. The iilgheft praiie
on the wisdom of the government, lelults
from the printed evidence of its disturber.
While the plot was ripening in darkness,
it turns out that more prudent lleps to
baffle it could not have been taken if the
whole had then been as well known as it is
at this day.
The resolutions alluded to very impru
dently censure measures and events which
are at this moment the fubjeft of exulta
tion with every true hearted American.
Our peace is the prize which the forefight
and firmnefs of the chief magistrate secur
ed to our nation. To arraign that conduct
is only to refrefh the sense of public gra
titude and approbation. We have little
to fear from incendiaries while their efforts
are thus directed more to insult than to
inflame the people.
CONTINUATION OF
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
IST THE BRITISH PACKET.
CONSTANTINOPLE, Nov 10.
The Imperial Ruffian Ambaflador Lieu
tenant General Kutufow, made on the
7th in ft. his entry into this capital with
a splendor which surpassed even the me
morable entry of Prince Repnin.
Immediately after his arrival, the am
bassador manifefted his wiih to the Tur
kilh ministry, that the French, with the
three-coloured cockade, might not be met
with by the people in his suite, which
might produce disturbances. Orders were
given ill consequence, and many of the
French there were obliged to acknow
ledge Louis XVII. for their king, which
procured them the protection of the other
foreign ministers. Fanton, the key-bea
rer of the office of she French embafly,
put himfelf under the prote&ion of the
reis effendi, after having reGgned his of
fice.
CR[TO.
The French royalists there have appli
ed to M. Chalarin, to assume the title of
envoy from monsieur, regent of France :
but no resolution has yet been taken with
rcfpeft to such a measure.
YPRES, Nor. 27.
Poperingue at last is delivered from the
hands of the French, after having expe
rienced great ravages. The Audrians
took this town last night by assault, by
moon-light; 600 of the French were cut
to pieces ; the streets were strewed with
their dead. Fifty prisoners of them have
been conducted hither. We took from
them on this occasion four pieces of can
non of large caliber.
UPPER-RHINE, Nov. 12,
The aflemblage of a numerous body of
French in the mountains, againd the
troops under the Duke of Brunfwick, was
the cause of the interruption of the bom
bardment of Landau ; but at present they
are entirely driven back, and the Prus
sians are again before that town, at lead
6000 lhells were thrown into that fortrefs
during the present week.
The Austrian General, de Vina, with
a body of 10,000 troops, advanced about
8 leagues into the French territories, and
rendered himfelf matter of several places
on the frontiers of Provence.
WARSAW, Nov. 17,
In the fitting of the Diet of Grodno,
of the 6th inft. the following Ordinance
was ilfued:—
1 ft. The General of the Republic,
commanding on the frontiers, (hall permit
the entrance into the dominions of Poland
to no Frenchman, unlefa he b« provided
with authentic certificate*, proving that
he il no Jacobin.
2d. All vagabond Frenchmen, having
no paflport, (hall be arrcfted.
3d. All Frenchmen, inhabiting Poland,
(hall abjure the present ruling principles
of France. They (hall take an oath that
they acknowledge the royal dignity of
Louis XVII. and promise not to keep
ITALY, Nov. 5.
any torrefpondence with the Republicans
ot that country. AUthofe that ihall re
fill"* to take the above oath, ihall immedi
ately be forced to quit the territories ot
Poland; and those who in future (hall
transgress that oath, (hall be driven from
the territories of the Republic of Poland
and lose their honor, as well as their pro
perty ; and the latter ihall be contifcated
to the crown.
4th. The circulation of all new French
Books, and Journals, is prohibited; as
well as the publication of any other sedi
tious book, under penalty of fix thousand
florins,
A regulation, respecting Luxury, is
upon the carpet, and will be determined
on before the prorogation of the Diet,
which is to takp place on the 28th inft.
The houlhold of his Majesty is expect
ed to experience a limitation, the number
of chamberlains is to be reduced from
twelve to five.
The above ordinance against: the French
has been moved for, ever since the fecor.d
inft. by M. Myaczynflcy, Deputy of
Lublin to the Diet, and brother to the
General of that name lately beheaded by
the guillotine at Paris—but the Diet came
to no resolution on that fubjeft, fintil in
vited to it by a note from the Ruffian
Ambassador, Count Sievers, dated the
9th instant.
EDINGHOVEN, Nov. 7.
The winter quarters of the Pruflians
have been determined upon ; the head
quarters will be at Pirmafens, and the
troops will be cantoned in the neighbour
hood at Winzeln, Rappertfwieller, Krop
pen, Peter/burgh, Claufen, Mawfweiler,
&c. &c.
BRUSSELS, Nov. 15.
The allied trops are at last preparing
to take their winter cantonments.
The grand Imperial army, under Prince
Cobourg, will enter into cantonments in
the neighbourhood of Le Quei'noi, Valen
ciennes and Conde, the head-quarters will
be in the latter fortrefs.
The English troops, under command
of the Duke of York, have already en
tered into cantonments, in the neighbor
hood of Tournay, in order to defend
that of our Frontiers, and the Dutch
troops, having advanced into the interior
part of Flanders, took up their canton,
ments in the Walloon country, having
their head-quarters at Nivelles.
VIENNA, Nov. 12
The commandant of this city has sent
a letter to all the commonalties and dif
tri&s, requesting them to treat the French
prisoners not as enemies, but men, and to
meliorate their fate by every means in their
power. "We will not (fays he) treat
our prisoners as the enemies treat our bre
thren in arms, as it is not in cruelty, but
bravery, that we wilh to surpass them."
MANHEIM, Nov. 17.
The bulletin of Gen. Wurmfer con
tains an official account of the surrender of
Fort Louis. The garrison, who arc pri
fdners of war, confills of 4000 men.—
There are no pieces of cannon in the for
trefs.
HAGUENAU, Nov. 12,
The unfortunate city of Stralburgh has
become a prey to carnage and plunder.—
The deputies of the Convention, under
the guile of Representatives of the people,
exercise their tyranny of so sanguinary a
nature, as the two lad centuries cannot
afford an example of. Under the pretext
of purging the city and army of all those
whom they deem counter-revolutionists,
individuals are put to death daily. They
have charged three members of the Jacobin
Society to distribute civic vouchers to all
those whom they consider {launch citizens;
and those who are unprovided with such
vouchers are banished; of the latter, 1300
have already been sent to Balfort All
the administrative corps of that great com
monality having been declared suspicious
persons, have also been baniihed, the May
or and three members of the department
excepted. The rich have been obliged
to pay heavy fines; the bankers, Franch
and Dieterich have been forced to pay
300,000 livres each, to punifli (as they
term it) their incivifn ; and they may think
themselves happy if they escape with thtir
lives. Amongst the maflacre, the officers
of the army of the Rhine have not been
exempted : Gen. Ifambert, the Col. of
the regiment of cavalry formerly that of
the dauphin, a Capt. of Grenadiers, and
two soldiers, have been fr.ct under vsr:cu»
pretences.
RASTADT, Nov. 14.
Fort Louis surrendered yeftcrday
garrilon we imagine, are prisoners of war.
It consists of about 4000 or 5000 men,
300 of whom are cavalry. It is supposed
that in Fort Alsace and Fort Louis, there
are 120 pieces of cannon. The capture
of this place is very important for the al
lies, as it secures them winter-quarters,
and will enable them, if the patriots do
not defend their canjp at Cliarleroy, to
besiege Stialburgh.
Proclamation ordered on Wednefdav at
St. James's, at the council was yeflerday
ilTued, proroguing the parliament which
was to meet the loth instant, from that
day to Tuesday the 2ill of January.
December 26.'
The mail from Flanders brought us this
day intelligence from Paris as recent as
the 9th infl. Our cotemporarieshfive re
ceived no Paris papers of a later date than
the 7th.
This intelligence, which we have re
ceived thus fpeedily.informs us of the con
demnation of Madame du Barre ; the de
feat of the Royalists in an attempt upon
the city of Angers ; and the capture of
an English trnnfport belonging to Guern
sey.
Our Ofiend correspondent (late 3 that
the French have extremely harraiTed the
allies upon the frontiers of Flanders. Tiie
retaking of Poperingne, and recent ope
rations against other frontier places, seem
to encourage a supposition that the French
do not mean to go into winter quarters.
Sortie from Toulon,
General D .igomier writes on the ]ft
Dec. that on the joth Nov. the Engliih
made a vigorous sally. They hadalready
seized rhe advanced posts and had taken a
redoubt; but the French charged them
with fucli impetuosity that the enemy ev
ery wliere beaten, was forced to re-enter
Toulon, after the loss of above 1200 kil
led and wounded. Among the prifoneri
is General O'Hara, Commandant at Tou-
[Loud applauses.]
Dugemier adds, that a whole camp of
the enemy has been taken by the French
tents and baggage.
Certain information is received, that
since the battles between the duke of
. Brunfvvick and the French in Deux Porrts
Gen. Wurmfer had defeated the republi
can troops in three successive engagements
and has put the whole French army in Al
sace to the rout.
In the session of the National Conven
tion of the 29th Nov. the assembly receiv
ed with the utmost applause a denunciati
on against the Englilh nation by the admi
nistrators of the department of Gard.—
The infamous Pitt, as they term him,was
jJarticularly included in this denunciation,
the origin of which proceeded from the
mafTacre of 300 Frenchmen, who they
said, had been killed by the English at
Genoa. They infilled on the deflru£lion
of London, and assured the convention
that they had only to decree it, and the
fans culottes would leap over the space
which separates the two countries, and
London would soon be no more. They
further requested that the name of English
should be proscribed in France, and the
moll barbarous name substituted for it, to
perpetuate the remembrance of the hor
rid mafTacre at Genoa.
The convention ordered it to be insert
ed in the bulletin with honorable mention
but ilTued no decree refpe&ingit.
By the fire at Mr. Woodfall's printing
office in Paternoster Row, the whole im
pression of the firlt and second volumes of
Mr. Monk's Agricultural Dictionary and
the MS. of the third were unfortunately
dellroyed.
By a letter received last night from E«
dinburgh, we are informed, flfefTrs. Ge
rald, Sinclair, Margarot,Brown, Kaftic,
&c. delegates to the convention held in
that city, for promoting a reform in par
liament were committed to prison on
Thursday morning last, in consequence
of the a&ive part which they hail taken
in pursuit of the ohje& fpr which they
were delegated. The lord provost in his
chara&er of high conftablp, went to the
convention, and took Citizen President
by the collar, and turned Jiim out. The
reft of h's brethren following.
The Flanders mail of day brings
an account of a confideraole advantage
gained by the Prufiian general Count dtf
Kalkreuth on the 17th ult. On that day
thethe Count was 4 times attacked near Bif
ingen, "by 25,000 Sans (jullottes, but the
enemy were each time repulled, and left
about 1 coo men killed 011 the field of bat
tle.
On the 20th the French made a fifth
attack upon the Prussians, who repulfcd
them, and took 7 pieces of cannon.
On the 18th ultimo at day break, 'the
French made a general attack on general
Wurir.fer's position from the Rhine to
Hockfeuded. The conflict which wan
long and bloody, ended in the defeat of
the French, from whom 43 prisoners were
taken. The allies had 23 men and thir
teen horses killed, and 200 men and 62
horses wounded.
The French at the fame time attacked
the Co.ps of Conde, supported by the
battalion of Wallis, a divilion of Hussars
of Dedody, and another of the Imperial
dragoons. On this occasion they were
defeated, and left at least 1000 men dead
on the field of battle. The lolls on the
fide of the allies confided of 61 men and
18 horses killed, and 241 men and 4.5 hor
ses wounded. Unfortunately Major Fran
cou't de Huff was among the killed.
The matter of a veflel, arrived at the
Isle of YVijjht on Monday from Guernsey
which pi ape, he left on the Bth at 11 in
the forenoon, reports, that admiral Mac
bride, with the fleet and trafiiports under
his command,wasthen at anchor in Guern
sey road, waiting the arrival of moie
troops from Oil end.
It was said at Guernsey, that the great
jody of Royalists assembled at St. Maloes
had been obliged to retire back into the
country, from the difficulty of getting
provisions for so numerous a body. He
added that the Crescent, Sir James Sau
marez,had been cruizing along the French
toad, and had driven on shore, near the
ille of Briac, 2 French armed (hips and a
cutter
NEW THEATRE.
To-Morrow Evening, Feb- 21,
Will be performed, a Comedy, called
The Dramatist,
Or, STOr HIM WHO CAN.
Lord Scratch, Mr. Bates.
Neville, Mr. Cleveland.
Florivi'le, Mr. Moreton.
Willoughby, Mr. Green.
Ennui, Mr. Finch.
Peter, Mr. Francis.
Vapid (with the Epilogue) Mr. Chalmers
Miss Courtney, Mrs. Francis.
Lady Wait tort, Mrs. Shaw.
Letty, Mrs. Rowfon.
Mnrianne, Mrs. Marshall.
End of the Comedy a DANCE, culltd the
HIGHLAND FROLIC.
To which will be added, a Comic Opsnj t
called the
Flitch of Bacon,
OR, DUNMOW PRIORT.
Jnftice Bembow, Mr. Warrell
Major Bembow, Mr. Harwocd.
Cipt. Grev illc, Mr. Marshall.
Cant. Wilson, Mr. Darley.
Tipple, Mr. Francis.
Eliza, Miss Broadhurft-
Places in the Boxes to be taken at the Box-
Office of the Theatre, at any hour from nine
in the morning till three o'clock in the after
noon, -r\ the day of performance. Tickets
to be had at the office near the Theatre, at
the corner of Sixth-street, and at Carr & Co's
Musical Repository, No. 122, Market-street.
The Doors will be opened at 5 o'clock,
and the performances begin at 6 o'clock pre
cisely.
Botes, one dollar —Pitt, three quarters
of a dcllnr—and Oallfry, half a dollar.
No places can be let in the fide boxes for a
less number than eight, nor any places re
tained after the firft a&.
Indies and Gentlemen are requeflcd to
fend their servants to keep places, at half an
hour past 4 o'clock, and to order them to
withdraw, as scon as the company are seated,
asthev cannot on any account be permitted
to remain in the boxes, nor any places kept
after the-firft a&.
N. B. No money or tickets to be returned,
nor any person admitted on any account
whatever behind the scenes.
The managers requcft, to prevent confu
£ on, servants may be ordered to set down and
tnke up with the horses* heads towards the
Schuylkill, and drive off by Seventh-ii reet.
Vtvat Refpuhlirp.
PRICE os-Si
6 per cents, 18/2
3 . 1 off
Defmeu, • ■.• • ~/ t :
U. ißank, 11 , per cent. adv.
Pennfylvam'a do. 10 ditto ditto.
Mr. Fen no:
Tlx enclosed uaifent to Mr. r Ix for pub
lication, and as ki km r I it a finer
under the ii«a tbui is cou Ppear *witb
propriety In bis pop,., thepiect to
winch it is a rrpl <T
I requejl you to gh't - * ■ • —You will
further evince your impartiality b repub
lishing. the piece u,i.kr tlx- j:gnature
Gracchus, which frfi aplKa :d in [he Ge
neral Advertiser. 7. c uilic will
how far the Editor oj tuat paper is jufii
fahle in njtaing this eJTay, for no other
avowed reason ihan beca ife be did not give
a place to that of A. B.—l will only ast
whether he never did insert arfOiers to es
says, which themfilves never were admit
ted in his Gazette ? Jf the Editor of the
Genera! Advertiser wijhes to prefcrve a
confident conduit, Ije will give a proof of
it by a republication of this ejjay.
Feb. 17
To the Editor of the General Advertiser,
Sir,
IT would be worse than hypocrisy to Ihrink
from the attack of the redoubtable champion,
who wiflied to enter the lifts in your papers-
It would be ltarting at a shadow, which if
shunned might indicate fear, altho , it had not
fubftanee to create alarm. Liberal as this ir
ritable gentleman has been in his abuse, boun
tiful as he has fbewn himfelf in invedlive, his
impotent ravings {hall not draw me alidc« om
the right I feel to give my opinion cn men
and things ; neither frail they deter me irom
pursuing him, thro' the maze of ablurdity
which his clouded imagination has created —
His signature is emblematical of himfelf;
for no one who has Uen his supposed prodigy
of genius, but will subscribe to the opinion,
that he is in his A. B. of republicanii'm, and
political knowledge, and that by the time he
progrefits further in the alphabet he will be
lei's confident, less dogmatical, and lcfs igno
rant.
It is not a little surprising that a man who
makes a boast of his wisdom, and a parade of
his knowledge, (hould have so far mifccnceiv
ed plain things as to fay, that " the President
is a Sovereign for the people"—The sove
reignty for the people, or the representatives
of iheir sovereignty, are their legislators; the
President is merely the Executive of the will
of the sovereign ; if he was the sovereign
for them, he would be charged with the pow
er of making laws: for legifJation is an es
sential of sovereignty, and as the people dele
gate a portion oi their sovereignty? that bo
dy which has the legislative power is the
sovereign for them—The President is limited
even in his executive functions ; for he can
not make appointments to office without the
consent of the Senate—The declaration of
war and peace is an attribute of sovereignty,
and if A. R. does not know it, I will inform
him, that the conftituticn has vested this a<St
of sovereignty for the people in Congress—
The executive of the United States is the re
presentative of the power, the legislative of
the will of the people —The will is an ema
nation of the sovereign, but not the sovereign
itfelf, for this is an unalienable right of the
people—The power is an emanation of the
will, for without the will, the body politic
could not a<fl—There may be will without a
power, but 110 power without a will; for if
the people will not a power, it cannot exist—
To suppose a sovereign is to suppose a will
and power, felf existent, and dependent on
themfclves ; it also supposes a superiority,
and to suppose a superior being to the people
themselves in a free government, is high trea
son against liberty. Toe man who can afiert
that the President is a sovereign for the peo
ple, must be willful, or ignorant; if willful,
he must wiih it, and to wish it, he must be
the friend of monarchy and the enemy of
republicanism ; it ignorant, he ought firft to
make himfelf acquainted with the Constitu
tion under which he lives, before he commits
his opinion ; for as much mifchief oft times
arifesfrom ignorance, as from deiign.
A. B. charges me with " ignorance," and
to gratify his wishes I will acknowledge it, if
he can point out a single instance of a " civil"
action having been cognizable by a grand jury.
Criminal process wasi slued against Du Plaine,
he was arretted by the Marihal of the Federal
Government, prosecuted by the Attorney of
the diftridt, and acquitted by a grand jury, tho'
previously sentenced by the Proclamation of
the President, revoking his exequatur —Du
Plaine was a citizen of the United States,
and as such was intitled to the prote&ion of
our laws, he had a common claim to a fair
and impartial trial; but the Proclamation
was a species of outlawry, which interdi&ed
him, before the tribunal of his country had
an opportunity to take cognizance of his of
fence. An individual in this city, has been
imprisoned for publiihing an opinion upon a
cause fubjudice, and if the law contemplates
this so great an offence in a private citizen,
how much greater must be the injury and in
justice, when to the publication of criminality
is annexed the influential name of the Presi
dent of the United States !
To leflen the decision of the grand jury in
Du F'» line's cafe, and to cover their opinion
with contempt, A. B. modestly aflerts, that
they were " ignorant," meaning, no doubt,
that everv person who dares to d'lflcnt from
the infallibility of his opinion, is a blockhead.
To sum up his idea of them, he ought to have
charged them with obfeurity of chara&er;
for it begins to be a falhienable opinidn with
certain gentlemen, that every man who is
va
not within the vortex of government, or its
fyllems is ebfeurg, and that every one who'
queftionsany of the governmental measures,
io either a beggar, an incendiary, a fool cr a
rascal. Thus far has our freedom already
proc ceded!
rejcHed—
'Tie true, that the people and the govern
ment ought to be the faine, but it is no less
'•true, that they have not been the fame, that
they have fpokendiffcrentfentiments. Henfield
was declared guilty by the government, he
was acquitted by the people, Du Plaine was
declared a criminal by the government, and
was declared innocent by the people, docs it
appear, therefore, that the people and the go
vernment are the fame : It we take A. B's.
ideas as the standard of truth and judgment,
we must suppose that juries are not the
people, and that government alone is wife,
and all else is folly.
That A. B. is not under the influence of
Hamilton or Knox, or that he is not a depend
ant or expectant of the President, 1 have no
more reason for believing, than he has for
supposing me the creature of a French Mi
niiter, or the tool of a fa<Stion.—Men who
make such loud declarations in favor of their
own integrity and difintereilednefs beget luf
picion ; for the man of real virtue, never
makes it a fubjeft of public declaration —As
a man ought to be moral, and ought to be
public spirited for his own fake; and as we
: nave reason to believe, that man to be a hy
pocrite, who boaits of his virtue, so we have
reason to conclude him to be a sycophant, who
vaunts of his independence—lf to be of the
order of paper noblemen, is to be independ
ent, I have no claims to it—l have, neither
Gracc HUS,
have I ever had any expe&ations from go
vernment ; disappointment, therefore, cannot
be laid to my charge—l am easy in my fili
ation, and neither the smiles nor frowns of
government lhall draw me from my duty.
As a freeman, I have a right to give my
sentiments on public men and public mea
sures, and as a freeman, I will aflfert it; and
altho* such sentiments should curdle the rich
stream of fubmiflicn, which flows in the veins
■of the idolater A. B. even this ftiall not ex
cite difmav. I have not, neither do I deny,
that the President has rendered important
services to our country ; but does this prove
that he cannot do wrong, that he is above
the lot of humanity, that we ought not to
challenge the exceptionable parts of his con
dud, or that we ought to prostrate ourfelvcs
in flavilh fubmiflion before him ? I repeat
that I am not his enemy, that I admire his
virtues; but I alio decl ire, that no admira-
tion of his character shall shadow the jull re
pugnance that every fr. eman ought to have,
when he fees his rights and security invaded
even in the person of another —To a Hate of
debasement indeed have we arrived, if we are
not at liberty to point out exceptions, because
the general rule of his conduct has been good.
A. B. has dragged a Minister of the French
Republic, before an American tribunal —he
has exerted all th force of his eloquence to
render him odious ; but in the extremity of
his zeal, he has defeated himfelf, by fubflitut-
ing abuse in the place of fa<sl and argnment.
The officer who is amenable to the people
of this country, he strives to cover with the
mantle of inviolability, and the officer who
is not responsible in any degree to us, he
rains vengeance and condemnation upon ;
but his hillings, like those of the harmless
black snake, indicate the will without the
power to injure—The protection which is
a (Forded by the law of nations to foreign
Miniftcrs, has no consideration in the heated
mind of A. B. he is determined t« revile, and
no obligation of truth or jullice, has power
to restrain him. —He fays that he is neither a
(lave, nor a tyrant; for that "he has not
tamenefs for the one, nor power and influence,
nor congeniality enough with Gracchus, Ge
net, or hollow democrats of any party, for
the other"—l wiih he had given a better
proof of his afiertion ; —for he has come in
such a questionable (hape, that he might be
spoken to, as the ghost of republicanism, or
a tool o£ the Dey of Algiers.
Feb. 15,1794. GRACCHUS.
PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 20.
Intercjling Intelligence.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in
Norfolk, to a gentleman in this city,
dated Feb. 11, 1794-
" A fleet of French men of war are ar
rived here, with an Ambafiador and Con
suls ; and from report, full of treasure.—
They took an Englifti frigate loaded with
the spoils of Pondicheny, and the colors
—and fevaral other vefiels—but before this
gets to hand, you will be furniflied with
better accounts than I can give, as the
Consul for Philadelphia is gone on.
Extract of a letter from Norfolk, Feb. I
to a gentleman in this city.
" Two French ships of the line, two
frigates, and two sloops of war are arrived
in Hampton Road. They failed from
France the 25th of Dec. Oftend was not
then taken but closely besieged ; that a
great number of towns in the Austrian
Netherlands had fallen into the hands of
the French. That the French army were
in poffeflion of the Spanish province of
Catalonip—That Toulon had twice pro
posed to capitulate, but refufcd by the
French General—That the combined ar
my were retired from Stra(burgh—Thai
the squadron fell in with the British East-
India fleet, took a frigate, a targe (hip,
and several small ones—on board were the
trcafure arid colors taken at Pondicherry.
" The new Minister is surely on board,
and several Consuls.
A Baltimore paper contains a report,
via Norfolk, that the Cork fleet of 70 fail,
destined for the Weft-Indies, iscaptured
by some French (hips, sent from Brcft for
that purpose.
The English papers under the Bruflels
head, state that in three Battles fought on
the 28th, 29th & 30th Nov. between the
French, and the Combined Forces com
manded by the Quke of Brunfwick, the
French had 18000 men killed, and 5000
taken prisoners—the Allies, loft 16000
men killed, and 138 officers, Saxon, Prus
sian and Imperial—and 212 wounded;
three of them Generals—Kalkreuth mor
tally. The Allies remained mailers of
the field. The vitlory, tho' signal, the
accounts add, was dearly purchased.
The (hip Norfolk is arrived at Norfolk
from Belfail, with 400 passengers.
Letter from George Fox ts" Sons, dated
Falmouth, Ivh Dec 1793,
We have now to inform thee, that the
American Ihip Cleopatra, Capt. Donavan,
having taken in a cargo of hemp and dry
goods at Hamburg, for Philadelphia, was
on his paflage taken by the French man
of-war, le Rafoirey Nationale, of 80 guns,
on the 24th ult.. Capt. Donavan and all
the crew, were taken out except the mate,
and {he was re-taken the 1 oth inft. by part
of Lord Howe's fleet and sent into Ply
mouth ; where we shall desire our friend
to do what is neceflary, and shall this even
ing write our mutual friends, J. ly J-
K. in London, on the bnfmefs.
HALIFAX, N. S. Jan. 28.
We find in a report made by Roberf
pierre, in the National Convention, of the
political fittiation of the French, as it rcf
pected the conduct of other powers towards
them, among other observations, the fol
lowing remarks on the conduit of M. Ge-
" By a very Angular fatality, the Re
presentatives of the French Republic in
America, are the agents of the traitors
whom (he has punished—The brother-in
law of Brifiot is Conful-Gerteral with the
United States from France ; another man
of the name of Genet, sent by Le Brun
and Briffot, with the charge of Plenipoten
tiary Agent, resides at Philadelphia, and
has faithfully fulfilled their designs and in
ftruftions. He has made use of the molt
unaccountable means to irritate the Aroe
l icam Government against us ; he affected
to speak without any pretence, in a mena
cing tone, and to make propofalsto that
government equally contrary to the interest
of both nations; he endeavoured to render
our principles fufpefled or formidable, by
exceeding them by the most ridiculous ap
plications. By a very remarkable contrast,
while those who had sent him to America,
persecuted at Paris, the popular Societies
dxnounced as Anarchilts the Jacobins,
courageously draggling again ft tyianny,
Cenet, at Philadelphia,made himfelf chief
of a club there, and never ceased to make
and excite emotions equally injurious and
perplexing to the government. Thus the
fame faction which wanted to fubjeft the
people in France to the aristocracy of the
rich, endeavoured in a moment to set free
and arm all the negroes to destroy our co
lonies."
Last evening the Tragedy of Isabel
la, with the Comic Opera of Rosin a,
were a&ed at the New-Theatre, with the
highest applause, from a crouded Audi
ence—Something further, To-morrow.
Cj* This Gazette Jhallle enlarged, at it
receives encouragement —The Svlfcription
encreafes daily—Advcrtif.rg Favors are
folicited —Tbefe conjiitute an ejfihtwl Item
in diminijhing the Debit fide cf the Account.
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street :—
A FEW bales ot Rodi* Slireiing*; Barcelona
Handkerchiefs in bnxrs ; a bale ot low
priced Cotton Handkerchiefs; a Quantity of
Souchong T>.a. Hyson and Tonkav, ditto; Hol
land (tin in Cases; » Quantity of Bnmttonr.
Feb. ao.
m'
3'2vv 6v»rJAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY iptorinf his friends and
the public•, Tlui liom (he < nc«>uragenient
hr has received, from fcvrral refpe&able Gentle
man, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNK—and would oiler his fei vices to
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidence
in him j and h allure* thole who employ him,
thai th< ii confidence (hall not be mifplacert
hut tt (hall be his constant endeavor. to pay the
ftri&t it attention to their belt intrreft, in a)) nr
gociaiions whatever. He has taken the Chamber,
in State-Streel, ov f r Mr. David Tow*fend, Watph
Makei's Shop. Where PUBLIC SKCUR!-
TIKS, of all kinds, arr bought and fold ; and
whcic CommilTion RufiiuTs of all kinds, will he
nanf*sed on rrafonahle terms. HOL?SfcS and
VESSKLS will be constantly exposed iorfale,on
«om million.
Cash paid for Salemf Providence, and
Portfmouih BILLS.
N. B. If any Gevt.'eman in Philadelphia, or
Nexv-York. has any Hvfincfs to travfafl at HoJlon,
tn Paper Hejfoctationt, he will he happy to be em
ployed on fom>n>/Jton.
liutlon, Jan. 24, 1794.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nth day of April next,
at the hpufe of John Thomson, in Perth-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
THE Lot contains eleven acres, on which is
an orchard ol gtafied apple trees, a well of
excellent water, a large store cftern, and a
commodious stable and roach-house, and a great
quantity of the b»ft building stones in the walls
of the houle, which was formerly built for the
refidcnce «>f the Governors of New-Jersey. The
situation of this Lot is so well known for its
healthiness and l>t.iu:ifu! profpe& of the Rariioo
river to the weft of the bav, and Sandy-Hook to
the e.ift, that a further description is unn< celTtry.
The conditions of sale will be, one third of the
purchafc money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, when a good and fufficicnt Deed will
be given to the purcnafer, by Walter Ru
th ex sur D, Esq. Piefideut of the Board of
Proprietors of the Eollern Division of Ncw-
Jersey, and the remaining iwo thiids fatisfa&o
rily fecurcd in equal annual payments.
By order of the Hoard,
J AM £S PARKER, Rcjrifter.
Perth-Amlo\i Fibruary 5, 1794 2aw2in
War Department.
January 3Qth 1794.
Information is toaii the
military invalids of the United States,that the
funis ;o which they are entitled for fix months
of thcii annual pension, from the fourth day of
.September 1793, and which will become due
on »he 51b day of March 1794, be P a 'd on
the said day by the Commiftioners of the Loans
wi> hin the slates rclpe&ively, under the ufualre*
{illations.
Applications of executors and administrators
mull be accompanied legal evidence of
their lefp'&ive offices, and aK« of the time the
invalids died, whose pen (ion they may claim.
By command ->f the Prrfid-nt
of the UnWed States,
Secretary oj IVar.
fcT The printer! in the iefpc£l«ve ftatet arc
irq<rcft«d to pubhfh the above in their newfpjL
pt-rs lor the (pace of two motvhs.
January 30,
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. RICE, No. 50, Msrket-ftreet,
also, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Markct-fteeet,
(Price, bound, 6/5 \)
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story.
TO IVHICU IS ADDRD,
The Indian Cottage
From the French of M. de St. Piekkh.
" THE aboveStorim have been lately pub-
ItOied, amongst the works ol a very different
nature, by M. de St. Pierre, who rrfided in the
country which it describe*, and was well ac
quainted with the principal facts. Its erna
nienll arc the Landfcapc—the Climate—and
the natural history of the Torrid Zone, abler*
ved with the eye of Taftc, and delineated with
the eye of Philosophical knowledge. It is a
Pa flora I, of wbifih the fable and the machine
ry may be said to be cqnally real. To these are
•dried, the pure vein of Moral Toftrudion, and
the Sublime Ideas of M. de St. Pierre."
4 4 t
Feb. 1,
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALS BY
M. Carey, No. 118,Higb-Jlreety
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
S hn s f., the bejl sense in the world.
THIS lit lie book ts written in a flile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to ali dalles of people, merchants, me.
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
work acquired, that it has psflTed thro three im
prrffions m the eastern dates, and many houle
hnlders deem it fa ufelul as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theii families. ■ Patct as.
February 4. dtt
Back of the New Library, between Chefnut
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY inform*, his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
c.i'rying on the bufinef's of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-fhutters,donfc in the most
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December go, f^f
From Los- don, Dublin antl Glasgow,
' A ltd now opening for 'ale, Ijy
MATHEW CAREY,
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Regilter for I 792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchcfter foe is t), J vols.
Priestly on inatrcr and spirit
on christianity
Disney's life of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirt of Guy Joli
Memty,a collection of essays
Varicof PrufGa's works
Calm obfervcr—by Mackintofti
Ruflell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Bullion's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels ill Spain
TafTo's Jerufaleni delivered
SmeUie's translation of Buflibn
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips'? history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hmdoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
I m lay's dHcription of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on mafenry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnfoa
Necker on executive power
Kiires of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins ofempires
Travels
. Vaillaiot's travels, with fiiperb engravings
I Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immaferiajifi*
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
; Complete, farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitas
Godwin on pol tical justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetiui on man
Kaimes's sketches of the history of man
Liberal opinions, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of fofitude
Smith's theory of moral fentimenfct
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. & Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
H. KNOX,
dem
man
Wallit on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ru{&a,PoUnd,&c.
Cox's travoJs into Switzerland
Rabant's history of th« French revolution
Lite of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motlierby's medical di&ionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qiuncy's d.fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Nailer's pbyfiology
Spalanzane's difTertations
London pra&ice of physic
Bell's fargery
Chaptal's chemistry.
N
N O R R I S-C OU R T,
and Walnut-Streets.
lust Imported,
yit No. 118, Market Jlreety
A Large and Valuable
Peale's Museum,
HAS Lately received a number of article?;
among whieh are the following ; Thai
remarkable bird called the Col-water, or fcit
art-bill; The Avofctte, commonly called the
Shoe-maker, because ol its bill rcfevnbling a
crooked awl—The Long-lrg.«, commonly call
ed the Black-bc t, having perhaps the longed legs,
in proportion to the fi/e of the bird, of any of
the feathered tribe—The Storm-finch, common
ly called mother Cary't chicken—The Sea
fwallow, and various Guilt; befidea * variety
of Cranes, Curlews, Snipes, dcc.
The fcuil of a Whale and one of itt Vertcbrea.
An Indian hatchet made of chryftal : It it
curiout ihat those uninformed wild people, hav
ing very little knowledge of the arts, and being
ignorant even ol the existence of iron and steel,
ihould be able to form such hard fubftancea in
to fanciful forms as this, and other Indian ma
nufa£lure.« now in the Museum.
A lignified Quince s The specimen (Hews
what a remarkable effect a dry warm (ituation
has on fruit. It is now about 8 years since it
was gathered ; and it was a real quince, now be
come wood, at lead in appearance.
Paefentcd by Mrt. Manfon of Charleftown,
S. C.—a tool used by the Otaheitans in making
their bark cloth, by pounding the bark on this
inttrument of wood, it produces the ribs which
resemble threads : the perfectly straight and
equal lines made in this extreme hard wood, by
men without the use of iron,are curious & won
derful.
Alio, a rope made of grass, part of the rig*.
'ng of a veflcl of Kamfkatka.
Presented by Dr. Hall, of Lewis-town, a Squib
in fpiriu : when this fifh wi, found, a number
of Hones were appended to firings or ligaments
that projifted from the front of in head,which
occasioned a conjeflure, at it is not furniftred
with fufScieot fins to resist the violent* of the
tide and currents, that it fattened with these li.
Ramcntson whatever it found at the bottom j so
that the (tones answered the purpofeof anchors
and ihr ltgamentsof a glutinous sticky nature,
that of cables. Some of the stones are in the
fame phial.
A collection of MineraU and other Foflili
t'e now displayed in drawers covered with glass
and in a mode which will feaure them from de
rangement. To each fpccimen are affixed refe
rencea to a book of defections. This manage
ment of specimens of the Foflil kingdom, ren
ders this part of the Museum very convenient
and fatista£fory,and great altention will be paid
to the fvflcmatical order of them, and in mak
ing the necefiary essays of each : Also in giving
in a conctfe manner, the various uses they are
applied to; thereby rendering them the more
intereftiug to the public.
A Living Elk, of 2 year* old, is just receiv
ed. By the account which monf. Button gives
of the Elk, it appears that he was not acquaint
ed with this American animal; he particularly
•mits all noticc of the curious apertures adjoin
ing the eyes of this Elk.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Epifcepal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
md requesting their future favors, as well as
thole of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair it the
Ihorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
fiich as coaches, chariots, phietons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chaiis, and harness
ofevory description, in the neatest and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the bell seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion to thofewhopleafe to employ him.
He has for fate, feveraJ carriages alraolt
finilhcd, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phston for
one or two h»rf«s, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commilfion.
Philadelphia, Jan. t, 1794. mlctlm
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the fubferiber has been duly ap
pointed Administratrix on the estate of
his Excellency Johw Hancock, Esq. late of
Bolton, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herlelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law directs—and all persons in
terested, are defircd to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Bollon, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
ALL perfuns who have anydemandt against
the Estate of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, nre requeued to
exhibit the fame to the Snbfcriber, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who stand indebted to said Estate, are
rcouelted to fetrle with htm immediately; as the
Ast of Limitation of A&ions, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
•therwife render it necessary for him to com
mence fuitsagainft them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boiton,Nov. .13, 1793.
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requrfted to insert this in their
refpetfive newspapers, and forward their ac
count! for tin fame, to J. M
Excellent CLARET,
la hogfVcads and te cases of 50 boulca cach
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
Io pipe*, hegftieads and quuux cifki.
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111, South From llrcct.
Jan. 4,1794. dtf
HP HE Trufteesof an Academy,
JL or any individual wilhiug to engage a
per.on to superintend the Education of*youth,
in the course of studies usually adopted ia
Academies, or any branch of business requir
ing similar qualification*, may open a com
munication with a per fan willing ro be em
ployed a few years (for a generous compenta
gon) by writing (letters to be post paid) to
Mr. John Fenno, Philadelphia.
(£3T Printers to the Southward tuau/J pofjibly
*Wige some of their friends > by injentng the foregoing
«few times in tMir papers. *
February ». dim-
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounda.
The price is T wenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editok.
Jamaica,^
An Ast for giving validity in this IJland to
Probates to be taken, by certain OJJicers
in the United States of America y of D:eds
to be there executed, andalfo to Exempli-
Jicat ions of Wills there proved.
WHEREAS, fincc the repartition fronuhe
crown of Great-Britain of the late co
lonies, now called the United States of Ame
rica, great inconveniences have arisen to many
of his Majesty's fubje<sls occasionally residing
in those States, for want of a legal provision
refpe<sUng the probates and acknowledgments
of deeds executed in the said States, and in
tended to operate in this island-: For remedy
whereof, we, your Majesty's dutiful and loyal
fubje&s, the Lieutenant-Governor, Council,
and Aflembly of this your Majesty's island of
Jamaica, humbly befcech your Majesty that
it niay be ena<Sfced; Be it therefore enadled,
and it is hereby ena<£ted and ordained by tht
authority of the fame, That, from and im
mediately after the pafling of this a&, any
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed
whatsoever, which shall be hereafter executed
in any of the United States of America, and
shall be proved by a fubferibing witness, or
acknowledged by the party or parties, before
any of his Majesty's Consuls at- Vice-Consuls
residing in any of those States, or before the
Chief Justice of any of the said States, or be
fore the Chief Justice or any of the Judge* of
the Supreme Court of the said United" States,
and certified under the seal of any of the said
States, or the seal of the States,
shall be, and the fame is hereby declared to
be, as good and effe&ual in the law as if fucb
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed,
had been refpe&ively proved or acknowledged
before a Judge of any court of record in this
island; any law, custom, or usage, to the con
trary notwithstanding : —Provided always,
That in all cases wherein the right or property
of any woman under coverture is intended
to be conveyed, she (hall be examined separate
and apart from her huiband, by the Judge
who attests the probate, and the said examina
tion /hall be certified in like manner as is prac
tised in Great-Britain or in this Island.
_ II- And be it further enabled by the autho
rity aforefeid, That the probate of any hft
will and teflament, taken before any officer
authorized to take probates of wills in any of
the said States, and exemplified under the
seal of the State where such probate (hall have
been taken, shall be, and the lame is hereby
declared to be, as good and effe<slual in the
law, as if such probate had been taken before
the ordinary of this island; any law, cuftem,
or usage, to the contrary in any wife notwith
standing.
Puffed the AJJembtj this Ittb day of Novem
her, 1793.
WILLIAM BLAKE, Speaker.
Tajfed the Council, this nth November, 179 J.
G.ATKINSON, CI. Council.
I consent, this 6th December, 1793.
ADAM WILLIAMSON.
Vera cofiia extur. G. Atkikso h, Sec.
** * The American Printers ire requested
to publifti this afl in their fevcral newspapers.
O" Terms of Subscription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of per font
who refute at a diflance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advertisements of onefyuarr, or left, 'u
fertedfour times for One Dollar—once, far
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line, and Snbfcrip
tions, will be gratefully received at the Office
in South }'GUrth-Jlrrtl, fi<ve doors north f tie
Indian Queen
PHILADELPHIA : ~~
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. j.
South Fourth-Street.