2
•- - X-.-. * . ii., .. ifc '
EVENING ADVERTISE R.
[No. 146 of Vol. V.] Monday, June 2, *794- [Whole No* 542.]
remaining
OF THE
Ship India's Cargo,
FROM
bengal.
A small afiortment of
BALE GOODS,
250 bags COTTON r >t good which
would probably make an excellent remit
tance tol Ewope, and a
Quantity of PEPPER
For Sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Who has also to dlfpofe of
Barcelo a Hand fs. in boxes,
Holland Gtn in cases,
Souchongj iiyfon, and Tonltay Tea>
A quantity of Brundone, &c.
May 10 d3 w "
JAMAICA RUM,
LANDING at Hamilton's «ha:f, above
the Drawh' idge, out of t'<e fliip BaCChus
C cpt- Vannsm an. ft dm JamaiCa,
iOR SALE BT
PETER BLIGHT.
May 16. d
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY and FRENCH
BURR STONES,
FOR SALE BY
Gurney and Smith.
May 14- d
Congress of the United States,
In Senate, Tuefaay May 13 th, 1794-
O REEKED, that Rufus PuenatfJ,Manai
fah Robert. Oliver and Giiffin
. Qreen, .do, upon he- third Monday of Decem
ber text, (hew ciufe to the Senate, why so
ranch of fh< grants of land to them the said
Rufut.' Putnam, Manaffah Cutler, Robert
Olive-' and Griiiin Green, pu>fuant to an Ast
en.t'tfd 4 vAn ast authorizing the tyrant and
conveyance of certain la-ds to tire Ohio Com
pu' v of ass .ciate ," fh ill not he. dt-clared
"void, -is may interfere with and be fuffieienr
toiStisfy the ctaims of the French settlers
at Giiliopolis.
Guided, that the delivery of a copy of
the above ordti to Kjulus Putnam, Man u flab
Cutlet, Rofvcrt OFiver, or GrilKn < rferi, and
the'puofrcation of the fame, one .April h, m
one of the Gazettes printed in this City, shall
Ik .deeded fntfinenl notice tliereof.
Extradl from the Journals of Senate.
Attest,
SAM. A. OTIS, fecretarv.
May' j 4. im *
~ " FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Maiket-Strect,
An Essay on Slavery,
Designed to exhibit in a new point, of view
its cfle£ts on morals, indujiry, and rhe peace of
foacly. Some rafts and calculations are otU-ied
to prove the labor ofjreemcp to be much more
produflivc than that «>r Jlaves ; that countries arc
rich, powcrlul and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits ot their own
labor ; and hence the n crffaty ronclufion, that
•slavery is impolitic as welJ as unjufl.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February^.
Advertisement.
THE relations of Mr Thomas Curtis,for
merly of EHicottfs Upper Milk, and lately of
the' City of Wa'flrngton, decea'<d, are desir
ed to apply and Have his affairs fettled.
ity of Walhington, April 22, 1764.
M. 5 m&th4w
Agreeably to notice, a
meeting of the Subscribers to the Articles of
Agreement of the Columbian Society, was
this day hefrf at Mr. Richaidet's, for the pur
pofr of chufing Managers, &c. when the i ol-
Ipwing perfmis were chosen :
Robert Morris, Pre fide/it.
MANAGERS.
James Greenleaf
Trijlram Dalton,
John Nicbolfon
Caleb Loivnes,
Thomas FitzJJmons.
James Wilson,
F. A. Muhlenberg,
Walter Stewart,
John Hall,
Richard Soderjlrom,
Nathaniel IV. Appleton.
Treasurer.
Qarrett Cottringer. \
• Ma y 27 diw
(
For Saie or Charter,
Burthen iooo barrtls. |
SiiS a ttuu.ich fit Failing ndw vesT l,wel'
fouai, and ready for any voyage,, either to
Ear »pe, or to Wert Indies. For terms ap
pty 10
DEELOIS & BRECK.
At their store' between Wa;nut and Chefnut 1
it reek vvharves.
May 23 d
ADVERTISEMENT.
LETTERS on the fubjetft of the Wafh
ir. ton Lottery, being by mistake repeatedly
aadrallcd to tiie Commiiiioners for the City
j of Vv alliingion,
; eri'ons con<-»ined are hereby infonntxl,
ihat aii fucii ihouki be addrelfed citb«r to VV.
I Deak.nsjun. of Washington, ortotheSuL—
icuLer. The cominiflioncra never having
conU:uplatbd any further concern in this
bulinels, u.an ;n their aii'er.t to receive the
Dondj .tiu .approve me names 01 he mana
gersi 'i he prizes have been paid and are
pjyxiig on demand by W. JL)eai;ins, Wafh
lngtpn, Peter Gilrrian, iiolton, and by the
!Sut>lcn.jer.
For the Lottery No. 2, the securities al
ready given will be retained by the comnnf
lioners, or transferred by ihem at their
option to l!ie Jiank of Columbia ; and the
Comrodiioners will be eonfulted refpefting
a judicious and equitable dil'polition of the
houies to.be built thereby ; their uvalury or
the Bank of Columbia will receive tiie mo
ney intended for the National University,
Slid the) will bt eonfulted in the nomination
-of the 24 managers; but ail the reiponfibility
respecting tfie general djlpofition of the tic
kets, ai;u payment of prizes, w: 11 reit as
in the Hotel Lottery, on the perfonsr whose
names a e and maybe hereafter publiihedas
afliilaiiis to forward this business with
S. BLODGE-T.
Philad. May 1%, d—jt-.
Morris Academy.
TH 1 i init iuiion is now open fur tfte tecep
tion of lludihits under che immediate care of
vlr Caleb Ruilell, whole abilities as an in
i uotor, and attachment to tiie business have
Jong been known and approved. He has un
der hint tiie oeil afiiiUnis in the different
branches —I'he Iciioiars ate taught the En
gi.ilh, French, Lai in, and Gi ek languages,
Pubi.c-Speaking, \/riting, Aiithinctic, Geo
graphy, Astronomy, and the various branch
es of the Md'jiemafycs The heai.hy ficua
tiot» jf this pince is <ti h as to tecominemi it
to tiiofe, who wi(h to have their ch d< eu in
the Cfut'itry. Boa ding, washing, mending.
&rc. wid be provided in good families, and
the morals of the scholars carefully attended
to.
Tiie price including tuitioij, firewood, &c.
eexciuftve of the French will not
xceed thirty pounds proclamation money per
annuD') an addition of three dollars per quar
ter will be made to such scholars who are
teu-ht the French language. -The Dire<stors
ar edetermined to pay I'ucn attention to this
institution, a; will render it refpc£labie and
uleful.
GABRIEL li. FORD. ")
TIMO THY JOHNS, jir Direc^'s.
NATfiAN FORD, J
Moiriilown, May 15, 1794
d 1 w.—W2m.
Midwifery.
Dr. Price, Fellow of the Anti
cjuanan Society, and of Jesus College in tne
Univeiltty of Oxford, See. &c. formerly lec
tuiet on Midwifery in London, will com
mence rath mihe Autumn, a complete
Course of Le&ures,
on the
Theory & practice of Midwifery
( With the Lttejl Improvements)
And ou the various iJ feales incioent to Wo
men and Children ; of which timely notice
will be given.
May 26 Bt
Cincinnati of Pennsylvania,
ay 2i, 1794.
A STATED meeting of the llaijdmg Com
mittee will he held 011 Monday evening next
at 7 o'clock at the Concllogue waggon. Ar
rangements for the4th July being rec (T a ry to
be formed, the members are requcitea punc
tu.lly to attend.
JOSEPH lIOWELI.,
d4C Secretary prq Tern.
It is Requested,
THAT no per.sou wid supply ar-y articles
for the use of the New Theatre, without an
order in writing, ligned by ourselves, or Sam
tiel Anderfon, F <r us.
VIGNfcLL & REINAGI.E.
May 30. dtf.
All persons ivbo bate any de
uiviiuts upbt> the New Theatrr, are lequert
ed to fend in their accounts to No. 204, in
Arch llrefet, near Eighth ftrett, as- soon as
couVenient.
wignelL & REINAGLE.
May 3">. dtf.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogsheads attd in cast s of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hocrfheads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE »V
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. Hi, Sou<h Front ifreet.
|an. 2., 1794- dtf
HORSES.
Anthony Wechter, living in Third street
near Callowhill ftrett, at the sign of the
Pennsylvania Arms No. ii 4,
HAS FOR SALE,
One Pair
Bright Bay Horses,
6 years old, upwards of 15 hands high—
and one pair Chefnut Brown with blazes, 4
years old, about 15 hands high. The terms
will be made known, by applying to Mr.
Wechter. 5t
A PLAIN"COOK.
WANT ED a middle fuigle Woman,
who understand p .'in Cooking; to (uch aonc
the bejl wages will be given.
Apply t the printer.
Maj 31 lot
FEATHERS and FLOWERS
Fans, Black Lace, Window Glass, and
R I C E,
FOR SALE. BY
Louis Ofmont.
No. 117, north SecondJlreet.
May 31 dtf
Guthrie's Geography improved.
THE fubfci iption lo' this work on the ori
ginal t ms, of welve dollars and the bird
rg, wil be c'o ed this day—and on Monday
the fubfcripM n will open at fourteen dollars,
exc'ufivei f fiiepiiceof bind ng.
T e new maps added to ( this edition a e
twenty one ; anions *\hich are thoie ol New-
Hmil ih re, M.drachufetts, Coimeflicui,
K od.-Xftand, Vermont, NewYoik, New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, Kentucky, Noith Carolina, the
enelf.e Government, South Ca'-ilii., and
Georg a. Thtfe maos have never teen given
in any former Cyftem of Geography, and, it
is hoped, would alone be fuiScient to ent'tle
this work to a preference to any'other edition
of Guthrie.
N. B. The map of the United Sates,
\vh ch is compiling by Mr.S muel Lewis,from
the res( ejfive state maps, wi I be far more
complete than any one yet publifiied, and be
printed 011 two large sheets of paper, near ly
the fiz- of the laie Mr. Murray's map.
May 31 d
WANTED,
A Journeyman Printer,
Enquire at No. 8, north Fifth fleet,
May 31 3t
JUST PUBLISHED,
MATHEW" CAREY,
118, Market Jlreet,
Price 18 cents,
T H E
Catechism of Man ;
Pointing out from found principles, a«»d ac
y knowled} r ,ed the Rights and Duties ol
every Rational Being.
Ami therefore become your enemy because ]
tell you the truth ? Gal. iv. 16
, Now a.l these things happened unto them Ibi
examples, and they are written for oui
admonition, upon whom the ends ot the
earth aiecotne. * Cor. xii.
May 10 tuthS^sew
\
Foreign Intelligeiricc-
NATIONAL convention.
Sitting of March 25.
Several of the popular Societies,commit
tees of Surveillance, Municipalities, De
partments, Diltri&S, armed alTociations,
■ See. applauded at the bar, the high cha
racter the convention had jufl difplayed,by
Crushing the moii horrid of confpitaciesi
These compliments were accompanied by
civic gifts, as well as felicitations 6n the la
bors of the National Representatives, and
invitations that they should remain at
their post.
4 Germinal, March 24.
The Convention approved of the fol
lowing proclamation to the people.
" AT the moment when the nation is
riling by vifiories to its deftincd glory :
At the moment it is preparing for new
conflicts against the tyrants of Europe,
their vile agents, disguised in the midft'oi
you, were on the point of aflaffinating
and precipitating the people into slavery.
" The plan of a bloody counter-revolu
tion was prepared ; the national reprelen
tatiou was 011 the point of difappearirrg
under the steel of a (Tiffins; the blood of
patriots was to be shed by the fury of con
spirators ; the Republican government
was to be annihilated, to substitute tyran
! Ny in its place ; the armies were to be de
livered up to the uncertainty of events, or
to the perhdy of some chiefs ; and, as
soon as tyranny fhouid be established with
in, the- foreign armies were to have con
summated the enterprize.
" The horrible conspiracy, profound
with' regard to the means employed, and
immerse in its ramifications, was conceiv
ed at a foreign court, and organised with
in our bosom. The success of this con
spiracy was confined to the common ene
mies of the revolution, to the criminals
in our prisons, and to hypocrites, who
deceived the people by pretended patrio
tism. In one day, in a few hours, at a
signal given, all the counter-revolutionilts
were to be re-united, all the villains arm
ed, all the prisons opened, all the afTaffins
unchained, and the Convention was to be
on a sudden furronnded with ruins, with
the dead bodies and blood of Patriots.
" In vain had our efforts sustained the
revolutionary government. On one fide,
a fatal inertness was imprefled on its ope
ration ; 011 the other, counter-revolution
ary measures prevailed. For some chvs,
the theatres, and public places had been
filled with Aristocrats, and the ftrects
with Conspirators. The women insulted
the public iriifery by a mad and foolifh
luxury; and the ferocity of the egotists
raised a famine within, while the (tipen
daries prepared it without. The winds
from all quarters blew the storm against
the National Representation and the Pa
triots ; while calumny and treason inun
dated the Departments and the armieswith
falfe news. In one, news was published
that the enemy was within fix leagues of
Paris; in another it was afierted, that the
design was formed to mount tha white
cockade ; and, in the more diflant de
partments, it was said, that Paris was
surrounded by foreign troops. At Paris
it was insinuated, that La Vendee was in
full force, and the apprehensions of the
people received atevery iuftani imprefiions
fatal to liberty.
CONGRESS.
IN SENATE,
Wednesday, March 21ft, 1794.
Mr. Vinitig reported from the comn it
tee en enrolled bills, that they had ex
amined the bill, entitled, " An a£i pro
hibiting for a limitted time, the export -
tion of arms and ammunition, and ei -
couraging the importation of the fame,"
and that it was duly enrolled.laid before tfce Se- |
a letter from the Secretary for ..the.
department of State;
vexations and fpoilatiottrtta ji|s eoanfcejca
of the United States; ; T * k '•' a
The letter w<y read.
Ordered, that the letter and abiiratt
th ereln referred to; lie for conlideration.
Mr. Cabot from the comrrii.tee to whom
was referred, on tlie 16th instant, the pe
tition of Moses Brown and others, report
ed a bill, stir extending the benefit of a
drawback and terms of credit in ceitainr
cases, and for other purposes, which war
read the firff time
Ordered, that this bill pass to th? fe
:ond reading:
The Senate proceeded to consider
he resolution; sent from the House of
Reprefehtatives for concurrence," for fur
nifhing the executives of the fc'veral dates
pvith a copy of the book marktd A, depo
sited in the Treafiiry department, by ths
rommiffibners who fettlfcd the accounts be
tween the individual Hales and the Unittc
On motion to refer the rcfolution, to j
committee to consider and report thereon,
It pasTed in the negative Yeas—9. —
Nays— 11.
The yeas and nays being required b}
one fifth of the Senators present,
Tltofe who voted iu the affirmative, are
,Meffieiir» Brown, Foiler* Hawkins
Martin, Monroe, Potts, Robinson, Rofs
and Vising—
Those who voted in the negative, are
Melfrs. Bradford, Cabtft, EllfWorth
Frclingtiuyfen, Gunn, Henry,' JacklOn
iliard, Livcrmore, Morris, and Ruther
On motion*
It was agreed to poltpone the further
confideiation of this resolution.
The bill, to authorize the President of
the United States during the recess of the
present Congress, if he ftvill think the
l.ime rteceiTaiy, to cause to be built or pur
chaied vefiels to be equipped as
gallies in the service of the {Jiiited States,
was read the second time. •
Ordered, that this bill be referred to
Mr. Jackson, Mr. Rutherftfrd arid Mr.
Cabot, to consider and report thereon to
the Senate^
Mr. Gunn from the committee to whom
whs referred the bill, entitled, "An ad
laying additional duties on got>ds, wares
and merchandise imported into the United
States, and on the tonnage of (hips or
vessels," reporied amendments, which were
read—
. Ordered, that the consideration thereof
be poiiponed,
The following written message was re
ceived from the President of the United
States by Mr. Dandi idge his Secretary :
United States, 2llt May, 1794.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of
the House of Representatives,
I Lay before yon in confidence* fun
di y papers, by which you will perceive the
state of affairs between us and the fix na
tions, and the probable cause to which it
is owing. And also certain information*
whereby it would appear that some en
croachment was about to be mhde on our
territory by an officer and party of Bri
tilh troops. Proceeding upon a supposi
tion of the authenticity of this informati*
on, aLhough of a private nature, I have
caused the representation to be made to
the Biitilh minister, a copy of which ac
companies this message.
It cannot be neceflary to comment up
on the very ftrious nature of such an en
croachment, nor to urge that this new
of things fuggeils the propriety of
placing the United States in a posture of
effectual preparation for an event which,
notwithstanding the endeavors making to
avert it, may by circumstances beyond
our controul be forced upon us.
G. WASHINGTON.
r'nemeflage and papers therein referred
to were read,
Ordered, that they lie for conside
ration.
A message from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their Clerk :
Mr. Prelident—The ftoufe of Repre
sentatives do not concur in the bill, lent
from the Senate entitled, "An ast to
make provision for the widow and orphan
chllren of Robert Forfyth, who was kil
led in the service of the United States."
" TIlt 7 have pa (Ted the following bills
and refolutiop in which several bills and re
solution they desire the concurrence of the
Senate : The bill, entitled, "An Ast to
compensate Arthur St. Clair," the bill,
entitled, "An ast to authorize the set
tlement of the accounts of Lewis Du
bois for his ferviees iit the late army of
the United States," the bill, entitled,
" An ast to alter the tithe for the next an
ni:a! meeting tof Ccrrgrefs," Ant! a refo-
I'tion that Controls adjourn en the third
Jay or June next."
" The 'peaker of the Home of Re
orefentatives having ligried an enrolled bill
I am directed to bring it to the Senate
for the signature of the Vice-Prefident.'
Aild he withdrew. - ~Q
('Jo he,continued.)
Extract from the Columbian Centincl.
Speech of Mr. S. d.lhered kef are the Anar
chy Club in Philadelphia, at a fpei'ui
revolutionary fitting.
Parties, Mr. Preiident, are prone to
too far ; but on one fubjift the most
jbvious and the molt likely in the world
to kindle all their rags, they do not «o
tar enough. Even the Virgininne do not
know, or seem not to have fufficiently
ronlidered. how completely Bi.iijh irjlu
•n:e has made a Have of opinion. Nay,
t appears that the very efforts to get fiee,
lave multiplied the cords that restrain our
lherty, while thev diminish the strength
-if our resistance a*)d sharpen all the pangs
)f jur impatience : As a fly, in a spider's
iveb, only kicks himfelf into the toils of
Jiis enemy, and uses his legs the more to
confine them. I burn, Sir, 1 freeze, I
"wont, I cnoak, while 1 give vent to my
ieinocratic rage, in describing an evil
■vhich is aggravated by its ordinary reme
dies. Britilh influence ; wherever I go,
f fee it, I Infer it. It flicks as tight as
he skin, nay tighter; for if a man were
layed alive he would not get rid of it.
Dur grand-mothers were British, our mo-'
hers suckled in the poison which tainted
>ur infant lips. Ccngrefs ought to pro
vide French nurses if not French fathers
"or our children, otherwise this inheritable
juality of original fin will never be washed
>ut. We do not now import British iires,
jut we sprung from them, we speak rheir
anguage, we follow their fafhions. Wit
less breeches, they are not the French
arte. They are againfl liberty because
here is restraint in them ; they are a kind
>t funding system which every man is
hackled \Vitli ; a slavish order in focietv
rhich fhotild be thrown off at a time of
•e-generation, when the ideas of order and
ill the fooleries of courtly etiquette are
ibolifhed or abolilhing.
What is there here fir, that is not Bri
ifh ? Our debates what are they but Bri
ifh, and the influence that arises from
hem are corrupt, oppressive and degrad
ng, which has increased, is increasing,
ind ought to be diminifljed, nay, to be
Jelfroyed by sequestrating.
Ii they should grow up again, if the
lead of that cursed hydra, credit, that
nan-eater, or rather that monster that
wallows an hundred negroes like so many
ugar-plumbs, and that forbids by her ma
fic, the coach wheels of a democratic
Lord to turn round, I fay if that devil,
ifter being killed by a fequefii ation a a
hould come to life, kill him again.
But alas all this is a vision that has fled,
ind left behind it, the weariness of over
trained exertion and the deje&ion that
ollows the diiappointment of the moil ex
ulting confidence.
Thus British influence grows stronger
[>y rettriclion, as the quelling an insurrec
tion Itrengthens government.
Wc ourselves exhibit many damning
proofs how close this centagion flicks to
»ur proceedings. We talk and write a
gainst the national government, as if it
were British. Our paragraphs and efTays,
if not exact copies are prodigiously like
those works in England, which have so tie.
voted and Iran/ported their patriotic au
thors. All Grub-street bio, Toms, all fleet
ditch breathes perfume, in the Genera
Advtrtifer.
Our government follows British exam
pies, and we express our censures of it ii
a form of words that is as thread-bare ii
England as our coats,
mi i -
Ihe leaders of our body are, it must
be owned, Britifli ; and that accounts for
the force of British habits j thev abuse
our government, as they have used to do
their own, and indeed they seem to for
get they have crossed the sea. It is re
marked that a fubjciSt of Britain, will
land for the firft time at a wharf in this
city, and before he lleeps in it he will pen
a paragraph representing the horrid op
pression of the excise in the back coun
try, where he proposes to reft his weary
patriotism, or rather to eagage it in new
labors. It is zeal against oppreflion and
foreign influence will soon bring him for
v.-ard into public life to speak oracles of
mountain viit'dom concerning trade and
navigation. All this is imit.ttiou of Bri
tain. There, as well here, speech-making
patriotifin fecks office as its prey. The
beast is mod fierce when he is hungry and
after being crarn'd he is arovvzy and tame.
If even we are obliged to yield to the
defpotiim of Brit Mb habits, let us no lon
ger deceive ourselves with the expecta
tion of success in. the trivial plans of re
form we have adopted, no,- we must make
great efforts to produce the radical and
regenerating changes we have in contem
plation. We must rife in mass and leave
not one Hone upon another of all the fa
bric which cur ancestors, in servile imita
tion of -their ancestors, have erfccled, And
which I will venture to call the temple
of idolatry. Let lis deface the right an
gled triangle of our abused atfedtioris, and
form a circle—this club. No hocus fo
cus of three branches in government.—
J lius we may club America, so as to re
vive a revolutionary energy 5 change the
language and speak French, export our
priefts—banifti the aristocracy of credit,
public and piivate, and put all property
into a state of requisition. Then the
chains of British influence will melt then
we ftiall exhibit the humanity of Algiers
and the elegance and refinement of Caf
frarie, the Psalms of David, a Britjlh
hierarchial work shall give place to the
hymn of Marfeillei, reason shall be wot
fhipped and man shall be free !
For the Gazette of the United St at
Mr. Fenno,
The appointment of Mr. Monroe to 'he Em
bafly to France, not bavin* produced ore
ftngle complaint in a certain party paper,
I muji attribute its Jilence to the absence
of one of his correspondents, and to the en
gagements of an other. As I have no doubt
the friends oft Lit paper will be much difi
appointed at its silence or. so important an
occet/ion, I fend y6u some hints for a fcuu
paragraphs, whteo the Editor of that pa
per may republifh by desire or inclination,
as bejl futs his tujir) -viz.
A correspondent remark# that the late no
mination of a certain Senator to a foreign
Embafly, is a perseverance in that dangerous
fyltem which goes to the deflruction'of all
the barriers which our excellent conftiiution
hath eredted. The appointment of a mem
ber of the Federal Senate to a foreign million
is a measure pregnant with the moll fatal
consequences to the liberties of the people.
What check shall we have on the conduct of
the Executive, if he can l'educe from his poll
a watchful cerberus, the guardian of our
precious rights ? what l'ecurity for our pri
vileges if their champions are, on account cf
their inlluence, talents & opposition to the en
croachments of power, snatched from that
ilation where those talents were dreaded and
sent into an honorable exile ? Will not such
a practice, if countenanced, change the Se
nate into a docile and iervile body, by ex
t parting from it all thole pofleflcd or firmnefc,
or independence and aversion to arbitral y
authority ? What a door for faction, intrigue
and cabal is opened by this precedent! a
member of the Senate, ambitious and desir
ous of a foreign appointment has nothing to
do but to clamor against the Executive,
thwart his views, intrigue with a foreign
minister, call for the correspondence of the
present Ambaflador, and censure it as hoflile
to the country where he refidts, manoeuvre
with the foreign minister here to have him
recalled, and then the Executive, to get rid k
ot so troublesome an opponent, will o.r.ain
ly appoint him the fuccefior of the recalled
Ambaflador.—Befides, this courting system
will be a bounty to fadtion and a discourage
ment to the friends of good government —
hen opposition to the measures and views
of the Executive is rewarded with honors,
and the lteady and patriotic friends of order
are palled by with neglecl, a premium is of
fered tor anarchy and antifederalifm. Every
man, whose talents exceed his virtues, will
seek that path, however injurious to his
country, which certainly leads to honor and
emolument.
Again, is it proper that the man, who, in
• s Senatorial capacity, has voted for or
againit the exifttnce ol an office or regulated
v? emo!umen ? s > *h°»ld be feletfed to fill it ?
May not an interested man threaten that he
will not vote for the exiitence of a particular
embally unless he be appointed to it ? What
must we think of the appointment of a man
to an officc, which, when another person
was appointed, he aflerted to be unnecelury >
Is it refpe&ful to the state, which ejected
a Senator for fix years, before the expiration
or halt that period, to deprive the slate of
his>lervices and fend him abroad ?
These hints, however prepoilerous thev
may appear to reasonable minds, if properly
cooked up, may fill as many columns of a
paper as Mr. Jay's appointment occasioned,
and ft) -v? as a counterpart to them,
For the Gazstth uT^J^
! EXCISE.
r W*re„ is at leafl mitfaken when h« J
■ ferts that the manufactories and
' fnuff owe their profpenty to the protcc
• ting dunes of the prefect rowrmnent ■
the truth is different ; they were maintain!
■ Ed under great expence, much faerifiee „r
intereit, and the consequent rifqne attend
■ ant on tae advancement of large capita!
i Z77^ m Go mhaures '
the federal Govei nment was dtablifttc ■
Wu.ren, the Otloved of bis county would'
never h ave endeavored to injure
by diiingenuous ilatements.
The contemplated tax on fnuffand fu.
gat, however eligible ,t may he on them
as luxuries on the opulent consumer, is
exceptionable hum the mode necessary f, r
' C ° lieftlon .-7't mult be effect,d in one or
two ways, either by the coercivc vigi Ja^e
of revenue othcers under their ptop" efta .
biilhments, or on oath of the manutafturer
the former is too repugnant to the prin
ciples c, a republican government, to be
I hope ever attempted; it ca ,mot be mail,
-atned without aeipotifm-_the latter not
° ,n c |; " to violation of oaih, but L,-
comes irmnc.Jun.lv a y U) the Mi
!; VC " CI ' ; '. tilL ' te c! a
the manufacturer.
liut-it is alk-dged that all !a e;arclia.
to t. i;S a;,:,;,-—i.i „„ „; lc Ml - C ; s tiie
®" K f C *Kh the fame «feflraAi»e
eonfequences; it Operate* as a peifca an
n»uiat;on 01 the bulinefsof the fair dealer
and terminate, in his ruin, as he Can no
rj -7: ' 'Pf'y : » s at the price ,i 1..;
neighbor. Wffl then a law be ena&ed
v.-inoii ti«:a i.j inefficiency toward its own
lupport will become unpruduftive, and
which shall oblige the manufn'dlurer (at
icaft the honest one) -instead of the con.
urner to pay the excise—-which shall er.-
:ouiage fraud and dtfftroy industry ?
W ere I the vericjt enemy to my country
.hat it ever produced, I would but wish
or a revenue founded on a system of cx
:ife on its manuia£turcs.
It is not only to feel for the fufTcrings
if our fellow men in captivity, but to al
cviate them :s our peculiar duty; o£thofe
•vlio are LlefTed with abundance much is
cquired ; ftom those who are in the more
lumble rank of wealth, among' whom are
he manuta&up r., a proportion equal to
:heir taxation in its fuilelf (bare, will not
De denied toward their restoration it is
not the fetters of Algiers at which they
(hudder, more than at that Slavery which
ex ills in the bosom of this iavored country
—and that it may be fpeeddy banilhed
from the knowledge of the foiis of huma
nity, and exist bit in memory, 110 one
more liiicerely prays, than docs
At the cLfL- of tlie American war,
the refiners of sugar in order to prevent the
trade in that article from Great Britain,
&c. from overwhelming them, were fre
quently obliged to convene together and
vend their goods below prime coi'i, which
at length had the desired eiTefi With
rcfpeii ;o fnnfF, the length of the war with
Great Btitain was the caule of its efta-
blilhment.
FOREIGN INI'ELLIGENCF.
FRANKFURTH, March 18.
Already 43,000 pcaunta of the Pafa
tinate have enrolled themselves for tl e
protc&ion of the empire. In the ciicle
of Franconia their number amounts al
ready to 86,000, and so in proportion in
th; neighboring circlcs. An army of
100,000 volunteers, therefore maybe de
pended on, who aie ready to defend Ger
many against any attack of the FrenJ's
VIENNA, Marcli 15.
According to letters from Conftant'uo
ple, the difference between the Empress
of Ruffia-aivJ the Grand Signior, are en
tirely fettled. The leprefeutations of our
Internuncio; 'Baron Herbert, and forae
other foreign ambatladors at Conftantino
pie have made at last a change in the opi
nion of the Divan.
MAYENCE, Mnrch 25.
The French Cotwniilioncrs have tc
turned here from Fra.ikfoit ; They will
immediately <set out o.) their wav to Pa
lis, to communicate the rel'ult of tluif
legociatioijs.
QUESNOV, Mnrch 30.
ibe eiKiu> atta»kru ourv'hain
A. S.
A MANUFACTURER.
A. M.r f polls fram Landrecies to Bouchain,
Their aim was to make themlclres mallei:
of the wood of Murtaial. In this view
they attacked Vvith a superior forcu the
village of O.s, above Landrecies, palled
the Sambre near this place, as well as
>icar Landrecies, ar.d attacked with about
11 or 14,000 men the abatis before the
village of Ponlmertuil, occupied by the
Ailllrian regiment of Brechenville. This
regiment was, by filch a superiority of
numbers, forced to fall back, and to a
iandon the abatis and the village. Du
ring its retreat, the enemy's hoife tnade
an attempt to fall upon the regiment \ but
f the Austrian regiment of Royal Alle
jnaud attacked them with so much gal
lantry, that they were thrown into con
fufion, 101 l about jo horses, and were o
bliged to give up their attempt. The
two corps cannonaded each other till one
o'clock. At this time, some reinforce
ments having arrived under the orders of
General Kray, our trojps were immedi
ately ordered to re-attack the village, as
well as the abatis. The regiment of
Brechenville attacked-in front, whilst Ge
neral Kray was turning the village ;
which manoeuvre, executed with equal
bravery and ikill, fncceeded so well, that
the enemy were obliged to abandon the'
village, as well as the abatis; with the
loss of five pieees 01 cannon, and a great
number of inen. The French left 540
men dead on the field, besides about dou
ble that number "wounded. Our loss is
150 tpen killed and wounded.
PARIS, March 28.
The forty-one Setlioim of Paris pro
duced during the 3d decade df Vsntofe,
29,892 pounds of laltpetre.
The Bishop of Saone and Loire, and
Etienne Thiery, have been convi&ed of
supporting the conspiracy of the Heber
tk'i.3, and have been condemned to death.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
7 Germinal, March 27.
Barrere—" It has been found that the
Revolutionary army is a dangerous inlti
tution, on account of its being more im
mediately within the army of the Gene
ral of it. It resembles the power of
Cromwell; or the usurped power of a
Senate You want neither Pretorian
band nor Janizaries —The Committee of
Pubh'c Safety therefore proposes you to
decree—
j. That the Revolutionary Army shall
£ be disbanded—and that the soldiers who
compose it shall return to their former
occupations, furrenderiug firft to the
Republic their arms and equipage.
2. Their pay (hall be continued to the
firft of Floreal (20th April.)
3. Such soldiers of this army as wish dill
to serve the Republic (hall be incorpo
rated into the other armies.
4. No alteration is intended to be made
in the Artillery belonging to this ar
my. The Executive Council, howe
ver. shall not be able to make any dif
poiition in any one of these corps of
artillery, without an order from the
Committee of Public Safety. De
creed.
LONDON, April 5.
he King of Naples has lately com
municated to the Sicilian nobility, that
the augmentation of his army, for the
present campaign, will consist of 10, coo
men, and that the expenses of maintain
ing that corps will amount to 163,000
ducats; the barons, the nobility, and o
ther ricn land holders, therefore, were re
quired to contribute monthly the sum of
120,000 ducats, the reft of which expen
ces will be paid out of the King's trea
sury.
The hanking-hotife of De .la Rue and
Co. at Genoa, has lately opened a loan
for the King of Sweden, at 5 per cent,
intercll.
Mrs. Jordan dines three times a week
with the Duke of Clarence at St. James's
aee. Whenever (he visits there, the is
»ttended by her Maid of Honour, and the
'uriery attendants ot the voung prince, in
a lecond coach.
The Situation of Paris is tranquil, and the
pifcovery and definition of the conipiracy
p Cra to have produc*d on the part of the
reople an unanimous determination to sup- j
port the National Convention.
UNITED STATES,
LI.XINGTON, (lieu.) May ji
Court of Oyer and Terminer*
011 Monday last came on the trial of Wni.
ot MaAilbn county, for paflir.g coup.-
>. forfeit bills of the bank ct North America.
com, . nued tv -o days, „,k! on tile
v tiiira he received ien enc.e vr death ! -
•e V me fu Jor h ' 3 «**cuioi» is the iofh day of
June. 3
s a . ict . t ?r f T om a in Botetourt
county to Jus iriend m Suuijtvri, we learn
t t..at Mr.Lettwich, a deputy flijriffof Wythe
e county, was lately murdered*
J> . AUGUSTA, (Gecu) May 10.
f iiftf eXp c a ." IVCd town on Tuesday
- It o'" ( ' en ' Clarke so his excellency
the Governor, giving information, that a
en a s S ( iu PP oied . to be Cherolcees
t- ) tiOont in number came
t into the fronter fcttlemcats ofFrankiii, eo.m
- ty, and stole a number of horses. Lieut.
- Hay, lUtioited at' the bifocals of Appa
» * a <-h«kj>Mrfun4g their trail with 18 dragoons
_ was ora\vn into their ambuscade, himfelf &
. . two of mul ftll, And anoi.hv r dangerous
; '? wounded—the Indians went off with
: their booty.
' r ac . cc ' rcl to* terms of peace
P lpoken of by tne Indian agent.
■ VV> are informed by Capt. Bonner, of I.t.
I .> ivunncl s regiment Hanccv k county,that
■ on UiC lfto / May. Capt. M-Kenzie, offaid
regi.m-nt, had a muster of his compan Vi two
miles from Fort Fidius, to draft men foi the
frontier service, where Major Woolen of
laid regiment attended—That 15 foidier- of
thetederalgarufoncametofaidmuflergroi'-id
—that a disturbance ensued, and that the
laid i/tsjor was killed by an unlucky blow
on the nead, given by one of the soldiers
from that garrison ; and that the said foidi
er was delivered up to the civil authority,
and confined in M'Kenzie's Block hojfe. '
— I 'II mniw
PHIL ADELPHIA,
JUNE 2.
Friday last, in tile abferice of the Vice-
President of the United States, the Se
nate proceeded to the choice of a Pieli
dent of the Senate pro ttmpure—when Mr.
Izard of South-Carolina was choilm.
The performances at the Theatre this
evening, arc for the Benefit of Mrs.
War<tell— The comic opera of Lionel
and Llar'iJ[a, will afford a fine opportunity
for the display of those vocal powers
which Mrs. Warrell pofTefles in so emi
nent a degree. This Lady is a pupil of
theßritiih Rofeius—a circ.imfiance which
fcarci'ly need be mentioned, when her
stile and niaurier of flnging ai d playing,
always tmc to nature, are ai.mdtred,.—
L\ti solicitous to merit approbation, we
doubt not Mrs. Warrell will this evening
experienct the beneficence of a crouded
house.!
The life of J. P. Brifiot, tran Hated
' f |om tM French, written by himfiai— is
published in London.
Lord Hawkefbury in a speech the 3d
of April in the House of Lords on the
" naval trade and commerce" of Great
Britain fays—" That the fiiips fitted out
for privateering the lafl wa-, in the port
of Liverpool alone, had a greater number
01 men, than all the ships fitted out in the
reign of Q. Elizabeth against the Spanish
Armada—-that the itrength of Great Bri
tain from these sources in the reign of
George the firft, was barely a fourth of
what it is at present—and that the num
ber of sailors in merchant (hips, now in
Great Britain, only, amounted to up
wards of 116,000 men."
Great ferments fays the London Morn
ing Chronicle, fublill in different parts of
Poland, and nothing but the presence of
an immenfc Ruffian army kt eps the people
of Warfare quiet—The fame paper favs
—" It is now perfectly undeHUod, and
even acknowledged, that the king of Prus
sia has withdrawn him("elf as a principal
from the war. He has dotie this upon an
arrangement, the basis of which is, that
if the French do not attack Germany, he
(hall not attack France, nor attempt to
didlate to them in any way with regard
to the settlement of their conllitution.
Dispatches from Berlin announce that
a negociation is begun fortaking into Bri
tish pay their troops, by which Britain is
to be saddled with the expenci of au ar
my of 30,000 Prussians.
APPOINTMENTS—by authority.
James Monroe of Virginia, Minister Pleni
potentiary of the United States to the
French Republic.
William Short, Minister P.efident to his Ca
tholic majesty.
John Quincey Adams, Minister Resident to
their nigh mightinefles the iiatcs general of
the United Netherlands.
James Simpfon, Consul at Gibraltar, and for
such other places as (hall be nearer to the
said port than to the rcfidenct of any other
' * \
onful or vice-tonfiH of the United fftutej,
'he lame allegiance.
Pi.Jip^Uvic, consul in Franeonia in Germany
1 e 'er xroliechy, confui at the port of Leghorn.
- Melius, confui at Bremen.
Vfi;iam.Mc.Carty,confiilattbelileoffraiic«.
John Lulnan, confui at the port of Orutava
i.-i i\:ir;riiFe. &c. die.
Sylvanus Bourne, vice-cohful at the port of
Ami'erdara, &c.
P. 1. Dobree, Vice-Couful at tliie port
of Nantz, anil iuch other places as (hall
be nearer to the said port than to the resi
dence of any other confui or vice-confuj of
the Unitfid States, within the lame allegi
anee. &
Jofcph V/ilfon, Confui at the port of
Dublin, and for fucfi other, &c. &c.
Robert Weaie Fox, Conlul for the
port of Falmouth in Great Britain, and
such other, &c.
Married at Providence, [R. I.) Mr. Ste
phen Tili.inghast, Merchant, to Miss
1 hfodosia Foster, daughter of Theo
dore F"oster Esq.
By this Day's Mail.
SALEM, May 27*
Capt. George CrSwninfhieM, jun. arrived
Ivr*?, last week, from Calcutta, which he
Krr iaft December. He confirms the accounts
we have had, of the great iu<xefs of the
I'rench privateers in that quarter. The en
thufialin which actuates the French in Eu
-1 ope, operates upon them as powerfully in
Aha their privateers make no calculations
cnt?.j inequality of force, but attack and
conquer ala mode de la re-volution. A Dutch
liidiman of 40 guns Was taken by a small
privateer brig— the men throwing tiiemfelves
into the water, and fwimmirig to the ihip
with their cutlafie-s, in their mouths, and
boarding her os all quarters. Onr privateer
of the lfle of France arrived with a large
lum of ransom money for fever al velfels flic
had taken, and besides had ordemi 2 i prizes
into port. A private expedition* had gone
irom the lfle of France against Batavia, the
rei'ult of which was not known. The inha
bitants of the Lie of France were apprehen
, five of a visit, in their turn, from the Eng
| liih, and were preparing to receive them
j nurteoujly. ■ Great natural obftacies—vaft
\ quantities of ordnance—a powder mill in
; the Ifland—forges for heating ihot— and men
burning with patriotiim and fr.ilitr.ry ardor
—such were their means of defence.
>' Capt. Crowninfhield left at Calcutta, Capt.
.1 Chapman of Bolton. At the Ifie of France,
r Capt. Lewis, in the Pigcu, of Philadelphia ;
■, Page, in the Betsey, of Providence ;
Capt. Campbell, in the Cleopatra, for Bolton,
e and Capt. Rich, in the Union, for do. Mr. f
Hewes, supercargo. At St. Helena, Ihip
' Dlfpatch, Capt. Newell, for Philadelphia.—-
At the Cape of Good Hope, an
squadron of 5 fail of two-deckers, dcjlintd
J againjl the IJle of France.
NEWARK, May 28.
On Friday lalt arrived in this town, a
gentleman immediately from New-Orleans,
who descended the rivers Ohio and Miffi
fippi to that place as late as March lalt,
who informs that a body of Gen. Clark's
party, to the number of 21, had collect
ed at the mouthiof Cumberland river, allot
ted as the place of rendezvous ; their in
tentions were, when a fufficient number
thould have collected, to proceed to Loui
siana, for the purpose of attacking
that place, as has been mentioned in
former accounts : but a fufficient number
for this purpose not having been collect
ed, and Clark not complying with his
promise, viz. to compensate them for
their services, they determined to flop de*
| tain and plunder, all boats that Ihould be
found palling the river; this gentleman
having been previoafly informed of their
intentions, by tiling every precaution pas
sed them, in the night, unperceived, and
proceeded on to Lance le Grace, on the
Miffifippi, (a Spanish fcttlement) where
he gave information to the commandant of
the designs of those ruffians. He imme
diately dispatched a party of Chickafaw
Indians, who fell upon them, killed three,
wounded four and dispersed the remaind
er, as he was informed by a gentleman
who saw the affray, shortly after at New-
Orleans.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Days.
Brig Nancy, Duncan, Briltol (G. B.J 64
Schr. MiJifou, Parro.k, Malaga, 59
For Charter,
To the Wrjl 'India IJlands,
The new Hoop
A B B Y,
Samuel Eames, Mailer.
SHE is a itauixli good vdflel, in compleat
order, a i d will carry about goo barrels. For
term;, apply to the captain 011 board at Clicl
nut ftieet wharl, or to
JOSEPH ANTHONY & SON.
June 2 vi
For Charter;
Lady Walter ftorffi
Edward Broock, Master.
• BUKTHEN 1703 barreJs, failsi'.ft, mdi,
»> t'onipi-at order to take in a caigo imuicdi.
ateiy.
f Also for Sale or Charter,
t Two New SHI PS of the burihrhof 240 tons
, each. For terms applv 10 ■
JOSEPH SIMS,
p Who has for file,
Madeira and Sherry Wines,
of the filft quality, Brandt, Red and J\,le
C Je'uits Bark, & c . dec.
Jn. e 2 d
: To-Morrow Morning,
! Will be landed rn-ai Walnut (beet »ha f.fiotn
on board the fchooncr Madison, Jas. Par
rock, mafteiv trom MALAGA.
Sweet Mountain WINE,
>n quarter casks
Soft (helled Almonds in i'acks
Mufratel Raisins, in jars and o
BloiUO D>. in quarter barrels,
A few 7 inch Bass Cartes
AND FOR S ALS BY - . .
PETER KUHN.
J u ™ 2 d6t
Just Published,
By Benjamin Johnson, and fold at hit
Bookficre, No. 147, Marketflreet,
The Life of Dr. Franklin,
with a linking likeriel's, executed in a
ly manner by TUackura and Vallance, price
five fliillings.
The Ready Reckoner, or Trader's Sure
Guide, 3/9
The Ynung Booker's Afliftant, 6/3
The Chriliian, a poein, by Chai les Craw
ford, 2f4
El'op's Fal les, 4J&
Swai 's Britilh ArchitaftJ 37/6
Fame's ditto 30/
J" own and d.-iuntrv Buildei'; Affiflant.
In the press, and will bepublifbed in a feu
days, and fold as above,
Reflections and Maxims, by
Williaoi. Penn, with his advice to iiis chil
j.en ,4/8.
6 mo. 2, 1794- m&rwiin
NEW THEATRE.
Alrs. Warrell s Night.
THIS EVENING,
June 2.
Will be prelented,
A COMIC OPERA, called
Lionel and ClarifTa;
O R,
The School for Fathers.
Sir John Flowerdale, Mr. Whitlock
Col. Oldboy, M r. Bates
J e " am y» Mr. Moreton
Lionel, Mr. Marlhall
Harman, Mr. Cleveland
J en kins, Mr. Darlev
Servintsi MelTrs. Darley, jun. Bid
fett, and J. Warreli
Lady Oldboy, Mrs. Shaw
- Clarifla,(with additional songs) Mrs.
Warreli
Diana, Mrs. Oldmixon
Jenny, Miss Willems
End ol 2d *&, a HORNPIPE, by Mailer
T. Warreli.
End of the Opera, a new Comic Paflorai
Ballet, compoled by Mr. Francis, called
L'Amour trouve les Moyens:
Or thfe
FRUITLESS PRECAUTION.
By Mons. Belona, Mr. Bliflett. Mr. Darley
jun. Mailer T. Warreil, Mr. Francis, Mrs.
De Marque, and Madame Gardie.
To which will be added,
A FARCE, never performed here, written
by John O'Keefe, Esq. author of the
Poor Soldier, Agreeable Surprize, &c.
called
Modern Antiques ;
O R,
The Merry Mourners.
Cockletop, Mr. Francis
Frank, Mr. Green
Joey, Mr. Bate»
Napkin, Mr. Bli.Tet
Hearty, Mr. De Moulin
Thomas, Mr. Warreli
Mrs Ccckletop, Mrs. Shaw
Mrs. Camomile, Mrs. Rowfon
Belinda, Mrs. Cleveland
Naq, Mrs. Francis
Flounce, Mrs. Bates
Betty, Miss Rowfon
Tickets to be had of Mrs. Warreli, No.
31, norlh Seventh street. At the usual
places, aud of Mr. Franklin at the Theatrq,
where places may be taken.
Also at the Library.
On Wedncfday the tragedy of ROMEO
and JULIET, with the ROMP, for the
benefit of Mrs. MARSHALL.
Mr. Darley '5 Night will be on Friday.A New NoveL
To the LADIES of Philadelphia.
This Day is Publt/heil ly
MATHEW CARE\ r ,
Ixß, Market street,
»• rice, bound, five eoliths of a dollar, sewed
in < arble paper, halt a d
. Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
IN TWO VOLUMES.
By Mrs. RO.V'iON, of |he New Theatre,
Philadelphia, Auth ir of Vifiorin, tliejil-
, the Fille de Chanib'e,
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers havt given
the following r characler.
IT miy be a i'aie of Truth, i'or it is not
nonatural, and it is a talc of rea di 11 ei s.
Charlotte, by the artifice of<i teacher, recom
mended to a fchoot, from hhiiTa'uitr rathei
tha conviction of her in tegI*'i*>"»1*'i* >"» 01 thc re '
gularity of her former c<>nd >&> ' s enticed
from her governef., and accompanies a young
officer to America-—The marn- ge ceremo
ny, if not forgbtten, is poftponcd, ai d Char
lotte d es a martyr ~o the inconstancy oi the
over, and treachery ot his friend — ' he situ
tion are irtlefs and affe&in# — ,l ! ,e deitiip
atio. natural and pathetic ; we ftu>i)kl ie
or arlotre if fbch-fc perlnn eve-- cxilted,
who for one er or scarcely, perhaps, de! rved
so a. tninifluneut. If it is a fiction,
poetic j v :ltice i; not, we think, properly dii
t rib u ted
Sad Carey has jujl publlfhed,
A 2 sheet map of Kentucky
c jed by Elihu liaiker, price one nouar
a d t\po flii« ds.
,/ar 'Arlas, containing maps of France,
Gernla >y, Sua n,ltaly,the United Provinces,
the Netherlands, a d the Well Indies. Price
twodollais.
Map of New Jersey—-Hals a.d )liar.
Map?of Vermont, ConnefcVicur, Delaware,
G» )igia - -Price three eighths ot a dollai
each.
April 29.
Four Dollars Reward.
A NEGRO MAN, named L'ETperan e, a
b u 25 ye.i.s of age, ot' the Co go nation, 5
icet6 inches high ; speak veiv lil|l> Engl Ih
tnn away frOfft bir> mailer the'?7:h mfiant —
He Itole and carricd away villi him < nr new
g e :i> brn:iH cloth coat, anil many articjes of
irni'r frriith e. Whoever Oial! take up and
fecu'e <h(? a'vive negro in ny goal, lo that
he mav hr •ug' tto Justice shall receive the
above leward. Enquire ot ihe Printer.
May 30 lllw&fyt
JUST PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOBS ON, ,
iu kjeller, at the Stone K<f/e in Secondflreet,
Philatulbhta,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPAEDIA,
OR A
Diß'tonary of Arts, Sciences, aud Mfcel
laneous Literature,
. ON "a fatten tilery jew"; by dif
ferent f< lences and arts art o *d into the
.. form of diftinft treatiies • Jvltems. This
volume contains the article s, tvecv.i's, medi
cine, metallurgy, metaphysics, methodists,
Me ; co,. mic oi'cope, midwif y, and a great
variety of biogVapfrica} and mifccllnncou? ar
ticles, rfJuftrated with nineteen copperplates.
Tnr tables of logarithms, &rc. which
were d i ient in the ter.th volume, are sub
joined «» this.
Even volu vtfs of this work are now pub
lished , dt .l Xllth is in some forwardnefs.
O > tn ft. , L of September, 1792, the price
of ftfbfcriptfoh was incn afed TF.N dollars on
all fc .t ' not taken before thar t 1 The fub
ftfipt'on isftill open on these terms, and if
any copies remain by the firil of July next, the
price will be raised TEN dollais more, on
any copies which may be fubfLribed for after
tha* period.
* ill * As many of the fubferibers have taken
only two, three or four, See. volumes, they are
carneftly requested to take up and payhW the
remaining volumes, as it difficult to
complete the setts, and the pubiiflier does not
hold himfelf bouud to make up any setts after
the firft day of J uly next*
Ap'il 22. m&th6w .
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Peteriburg in Rufiia,
And now landing at South.street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVENs DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
< John Donnaldfon,
No. 12, Walnut-street.
March 4,1794. diwjtawtf
To be Let,
For Merchants Comptfhg Houses or Public
Offices,
Two brick 3 story Houses,
HAVING 6looms in eacn, wi h fire place«
beQde garrets, on (he fouih wetterly fide
of pock ftrect, between Pear and Walnut
streets. Enquire of
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
April 17. tuth&«tf
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, dedudiiij, 15 />«* Cent: from
the Prizes—this Lottery conjip of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
\ 14,539 iVi>6« and 23,4.61 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize*
Tilii Dn eftors of J he Society for eltabnfhing
Ijlciul Manulafctures, having relolved to
erect LOTTfcRi H.S tor raising Otf* Hu nuked
Thousand Dollar s, tagji Att of
,I,c o! the State ot New-jFffry, have
aopoinitd the following pcrfoos to luperintend
• iici.dircdihe drawing ol the fame, viz. Nicho
las Lovr, Rufus King, Herman Le Roy, James
Watson, Richard Harrifon, Abijah Hammond,
ana Cornelius Ray, ol the city ot Nrw-York-
Tliomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthew M'Con
ncl and Andrew Bayard, ot ihe cny ot Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
Elias Boudinot, General El'as Dayton, Jam s
Parker, fohn Bayard, Do&or Lewis Donham,
Sa.nu..l W. Stockton, Jolhua M. Wallace, Joseph
I Bloomfield, and Elista Boudiriot, ol NiW-Jer.
1 fev, Who offer the following Schcme of a Lot
i tery, and pledge themselves to the public, that
they will take every assurance and precaution in
their power to have the Monies pud by the
Managers, from time to time, as received, into
the Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for the pui pole ol paying Pri/.-», which
(hall be immediately discharged by a check
- npon one of the Banks.
SCHEME:
r Prize of 20,000 Dollar* is 20,000
1 10,000 10,00 c
2 5)000 10,000
- 2,000 , 10,000
10 I,COO 10,000
2 o ,0 ' 000
100 100 10,000
300 5° l s> oco
1030 20 20,0C0
2000 15 3°> oco
3000 12 36,000
8100 10 81,000
14,.-39 Prizes. 262,000
23/(.ox Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Laitdrawn number, 2,000
* ; —
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
Ihe drawing 11 commence, undei the m
fpettuMi ,1 a Committee «»* the Supenntendants,
as loon as the Ti' kc.s are fold,of which timely
nonce will he g'veil
l he Supenntcndants have appointed John N,
ni New i»k, Jaeoci R. Hjj deribcrgi
ol w-Biurifw ick, and Jonathan Rhea. oi
Trenton, as jmmed oie Managers thereof, who
have given ampl> iecuiity ior discharging tbc
trult lepofcd m them.
lit order to fecurethe pun&u.l payment
of the Pnzcs, the Supei intendamsof the Lottery
direCled 1 ii^L the Manageis fhal! each enter
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with lout fu&cient
i ciriti s, to jjt riorm their initt u&ions, the lub
lUi.ce of which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
fh*4l receivethr ium ot Three Hundred Dollars,
he ihall unmdiauly place the fame in 6ne of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
eiedii of rhc Governor of the Society, and such
of the Superiniendants as live in the city whtre
the monies are placed, to remain there nntil the
Lotterv is drawn, for the paymntof the Prize:.
11. The Managers to take fufficient fecuiity
for an> Pickets they may trust, other wife to be
refponuble for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Morres re< ( ived and paid into the Bank, ab
ftratts of which shall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon. January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle
men, intoimation will be given where tickets
may be had.
February 24. tu&ftf.
Diflriftof Pennsylvania
T O IV I T:
1 it rememliered, that on 'tlie
„ ' twenty fourth day of March, in
lie eighteenth year of the independence of the
UiitedStates of America,Ebenizsr Hazard
of the laid diftrift, nasdepofired in this office,
th; title of a book,the right whereof'heclaims
as author, in the words following, to Wit :
" Historical Collections; confiffing of Hate
papers, and other authentic documents ; in
tended as materials for an history of the U
nited States of America.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A. M.
Member ot the American Philosophical So
ciety, held at Philadelphia, for prrmiotiiig
u.eful knowledge; Fellow'of the American
academy of Aits and Science*; and corref
pondent member of the Maflachufetts Hiflo
rical Society.
VOLUME 11.
Ingenium, Pittas, Artes, acbellica virtus,
Hue profugae venient, et Regna illuftria
condent,
Et Domini hie Virtus erit, et Fortuna mi
niftra.'*
In conformity to the afl of the Congress of
the United States, entitled " An aift for the
eucoui agement of learning, by feeui ing the
copies of maps, charts ant! books, to the au
thors and proprietors of such copies, duiing
the times therein mentioned.''
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Dijlrift of Pennsylvania.
May 7 e\v4'.v
SHOES.
A quantity of stout well made Men's size
SHOKS, adapted for the Southern market,for
sale at
No. 36, North Third Jireet.
May 6 mw&fiot
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty \
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
several of which have appeared in circiclation
within a few days jhaft ; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be diftingui/hed by the following
MARKS.
; Five Dollar Bills of the Bank the
| - United States.
\ ALL that have appeared hav? the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
| The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
s the genuine paper.
, The O. in the word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M. would extend con.
fiderably above the range of the whole word,
s In tht word United the letters are narrow.
> erand cloffer together than the reft of the bill
The i and Jin the word promise are not
parallel, the J inclining much more forward
than the i.
1 The engraving is badly executed,the strokes
n of all the Letters are stronger and the device
c in themargin particularjy is much coarlcr and
° appears darker than in the true bills; Some
h at the counterfeits bear date in J 791 —Where-
in as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were issued in
ihat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
0 America.
>° ALL that have appeared have the letter
>0 B for their alphabetical mark.
)0 Tl>ey are printed on a paper nearly similar
;G to that of the counterfeit Five Doilai Notes
>0 above described ; the engraving is exe
ucted, and they approach neater to the ap
'° pearance of the genuine bills.
o The fine ruled lines through the word Twen-
J0 (v, in the body of the bill, are m number th r
)Q teen in the genuine b.lls, and but twelve in
__ the counterfeits.
)0 The word Company is much l ike the fame
)0 word in the Five Dollar Bills as defer ibed a
-50 bove, the 0 being lels than them, and others
— following.
50 There is no stroke to the t in the word North
n- whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
s, defined.
ly T*he letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do 'noi come down to
SI. the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
g* appearance to the word, the 1 w and go
of ing below them.
10 The fignatuie J. Nixon, has the appear
be ance of being written with lamb-black and
01, and differs from Other inks used in
nt printing the bills and the cashier's signature.
r y It is supposed these forgeries were committed
er in lorne of the Southern Slates, as all the coun-
Ilt rerfcits thai have appealed, have come from
1 hence, and two periods have been apprehend
ed in Virginia,on (ufpicion of being the author
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Perlon or Persons who shall
discover and prolecute to conviction the/lever al
offenders of the following defci iptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or pcrfons, who manufa£fured
the paper on which the Bills are printed.
The person or peitons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
Every perf >n who has a£ted as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
Pniladelphia, March 28, 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
ter B.
They may be diftinguiflied from the genu
ine by the following MARKS :
The paper of the counterfeits is of a more
tend r texture and glofley fur face than the
genuine, and there is no water mark in them.
Ttee letter C. in the word Cashier, in the
true bills is ftrorigly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
itroke, evidently in an unfinifhed state. The
letter a in the word demand, is badly formed
and the whole word ill done, and there is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
The marginal device, is much daiker in
the falfe, than in the genuine bills owing to
the shade strokes being coarferj much nearer
together, and consequently much move nu
merous. This difference ft; ikes the eye at fit ft
view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will be paid for apprehending, &
profecuiting to conviction the several above
described Offenders in refpe<st to this, as to
the last described bills.
THOMAS WILLING, President
of the Brink United States.
JOHN NIXON, Prefidentof the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
pe&ive Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —alio a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of lard and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size, or convenience.
Ft»r particulars apply to the printer.
mkttf
yHEofficeof the Prrtdent and Director, 1
X »f the Insurance Company of Noktk
America, ls removed to No. .07, South
Front street, being the Couth eafl corner of
F1011! and Walnutftretts. » •
Ma ?'- tfcf.m
Just imported,
In the/hip Abigail > Captain Horton, from St
*nd now landing at
RuJell'j wharf,
HEMP,
bar iron,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
ravens duck,
RUSSIA DUCK,
u , A . n6 sale at ll * stores of the fubferiber In
Walnut street, No.«.
John Donnaldfon.
A P nl 4- ri,ww& t ■
Stock Brokers Office,
Wa"-ftrcet, NrV-Yrt^
I He. Sub It riber j ntfn ding to confin? hi m felf
10 'he PURCHASE & SALE or
STOC KS on COMMISSION, l.,gs l f .« to D f
ftr hisfervicesto h„ l,it„di and o ,h e r s in ,he
me of a Stock Broker. Thole who may p l e ,f e
to favor him wuh their liufinrU, may d. pend
upon having it tranced with the u ,mod fide
lity and dlfpalch,
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other partof the Un.tcd Slate., w,|| be
attended to. LEONARD BLEf CKER,
TTl&tht'
Just PubHfhed,
jt one handsome volume, iimo. p r ; ee 5s
AND FOR ."SALE BY r
JOHN ORMRGD,
Franklin's Head, No. 41, Chefuut
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
Oil the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it inapoles.
To .which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
leylerian Society at Jiaarlem.
Cor reded and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
ProfefTor of Moral Phiiofbpfiy, and the Law
of Nature, and of EccJefiaftica) History ;
and Minister of the Englifti Chutch at U
trecht.
Alsquid semper ad communeni utilitatem af
feremltim. Ctcero.
The Firjl American Edition.
THE grand principle df Equality, if right
ly underwood, is the only balis on wjiich
univerfa! justice, sacred order', and perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The view of it exhibited in this
elTay, at the fame time that it reprelfes the
itrfojeiice of aflice, the tyranny ofpride, a-<>d
the outrages of oppreftTon ; confirm®, in the
mpft forcible manner, the neceiHty of subor
dination, and the just demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the 41
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftinftion,
draws more clol'ely every social tie, unites in
one harmonious and justly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation,-and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. , tuts
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Reprefetitatives,
December 21 ft, 1793.
WHEREAS the Comnuilioners of public
Accounts, .have reported,.that they cap
not proceed 10 the invr(ligation of'the Treasury
Accounts, relpr&ing fprcial Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation '.—Therefore,
Resolved, That all holders of special Indents
be dire&ed, and requir: o» on or before the firft
day of November n xt,to deliver the fp cial In
dents in their pofieflion to one or other of the
Commiflione-s of the Treasury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to rep rt to theCom
miflioners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the aroouOt by
them refpe&ively received, and also to the Le
j giflature, at their meeting in November next.
and that all special Indents not rendered into
} the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of Novem.ber next, ihall be, ami the fame are
hereby barred.
1 Rejotved, That public notice of this resolution
0 be given in the fevcral Gazettes in this State,
r once every three weeks, until the firft day of
>- November next. And that the Deligatesof this
ft State in the Congress of the Uuited Spates, he re
quested to cause this resolution to be published
[) in one or more papers in the cities of Ph i ladel
& phia and New-York, and that provision will be
e made for the expences auending such pubhea
o tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
it <Seuate for their concurrence.
By r>rderof the House,
1C JOHN SANTORD DART, C. H. R.
In the SENATE,
f- December 21 ft. 1793-
Resolved, That thij. House do concur with the
Houle of Representatives in the foregoing reso
lution*.
Ordered, That the resolution* be sent to the
House of Reprefentaiives.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov,
3f ""
'y PHILADELPHIA:
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 3,
South Fourth-Stceet.
%