d fie tjtnifeto JjWafel
/
EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 82 of Vol. V.]
For Amsterdam,
The new faft-failiner, copper
bottomed SHIP
|g| ADRIAN A,
K. Fitzpatrick, Master.
BUILT of live?»ak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenierit speed. For freight orpaflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut flreet wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengers wijl be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794. dtf
For Charlejlorii
(S°uth Carolina.)
Andrew Gwin, Majler.
TO fail on Tuesday the 18th inft. has good
accommodations for paflengers. For freight
or paflage, apply to the Master on board at
Walnut street wharf, or to
GEORGE MEADE.
&3t.
March 14.
For sale by Public Vendue,
On TUESDAY Evening,
The 18th Inft* at 7 o'clock, at the
MERCHANT'S COFFEE HOUSE,
AS Ihe came from sea, riow lying at Vine
street wharf. She is a llropg well built ves
sel,232 tons burthen,has made but three voy
ages, and may be sent to sea at a small ex
pe'nce ; inventory to be seen on board, and at
the place of sale.
FOOTMAN iff CO. Auctioneers.
March 15. djt.
For Sale, or Charter,
To the Weji-Indies, or any Port within
the United States ;
BETSEY,
Darius Woodworth, Matter.
Will carry about 500 barrels, and now lies
a? Wharton and Graves wharf. For terms
*,»ply to Capt. Woodworth on board, or to
EMANUEL WALKER,
If not Sold or Charted by Thursday, flie will
then take Freight for Norfolk, Pcurjburgh, and
Richmond (Virgina); and Sail on the Sunday
{blowing.
March 15.
For Bojton,
DOLPHIN,
William Nichols, Matter:
WILL Sail in about eight days; for freight
or paflage apply to the Captain on board at
ifo-lge's Wharf, betwen Arch and Race-
Streets, or
RUMfORD W ABIJAM DAWES.
3d Mon. 14. 1794- d' w -
The American Brig
BURTHEN 700 barrels," with her tackle
and apparel as ftie came from Tea, She is a
Haunch vellel, not two years old, and may be
put to sea immediately. For terms apply
GARDINER isf OLDEN,
Arch Street wharf,
Who have for file,
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
a quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and a few
< aflcs Timothy Seed—also
Pig and Bar Iron, and Iron cast
ings, in any form executed on the
(horteft notice.
March 14,
A Good Compositor 8c
PreJJinan luilt meet with eonjlant employ for
fix months, anil one quarter dollar per token
*hd tboufarul.
Apply at No. 61, south Second fireet.
March 15. dt,l.
For
George & Harriott,
Joftah Bernard, Master.
WILL fail the 25th inft. has>good accommo
dations. For freight or passage, apply to the
C;iptain*on board ot Mr Sitns'i wharf, or to
JOSEPH ANT HO NT & SON.
March i 7. d(25
At a Meeting of the Merchants
and Traders held at Philadelphia at the Harp
and Crown Tavern, on Tueiday the eleventh
initant,
It was Unanimoujly Refolded,
Th it the meeting be adjourned, to meet
at the State House on Tuesday next at five
o clock P. M. and that the Citizens in general
of the City and County be invited to attend.
March 17. £ 2t
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amiterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-llreet wharf, viz.
GIN in pipej,
A few bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Oznaburgs f
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious sizes.
Sheathifig Paperi
Swedes Iron, square and flat bars,
hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, Zsfc. &c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun,
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale
thould application be made within a few days ;
Other-wife Jhe wilt take freight for Amfier
dvm.
March 1, 1794.
Loft at che Theatre,
Lafl Wednesday evening*
A Miniature Pi dure
Of a Gentleman, set in gold. Whoever
will deliver the fame at No. 112. Spruce street
fliall receive a generous reward.
March 14.
n the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commissions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
4tfmw&f
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
(March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
The Minister Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of newspapers within th«
United States, are.requested to republifh the
foregoing notice.
LE habitans tnfortunes dc la Colonic Francs,ifc
dc St. Domingue qui dan. I'lnrcndie du
Cap font vcnus chcrcher un afile dans les Etat«
Unu font mformls que | a Ripubliquc leur ac
cord? Un paflagc pour Francc. lis font tnviles
cn conlcquence a fc piefrntcr a cct eftet d'ici a
huit jours chcz les Consuls & agens dc la Re
publique dans lesdifler nil Ports des Etats Unis
A Philadilphie, 1c 10 Vcntos—l'an 2d de
la Republiqut Franfaifc une & indivisible.
( 2 ®, 1794. vieuxflitr)
Lc Mmiftre Pfenipotentiaic dela Kepublique
Franpailc.
JH. FAUCFIET.
The edit° rs °f ne wfpapers in the United States are
requejled to tn .f ert hsaf»ove notice in their paper. 8
A RECOMPENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby offered by the Prefidcnt and Direc
tor* of the Bank of the United States, *0 any
person who lhall, on or before'the full day ot
May next, produce to them such a plan and ele
vation of a Banking Houfr, as (hall be approved
of by them.-*. A plain, yet handsome from it
defircd : The whole building is to be fubllantia)
and commodious with as much space around it,
as the size of the giound will admit.
*diot
The Lot on which the building is to be ereCU
ed, is fitnated on the weft fide of Third iireet,
between Chefnut and Walnut ft,cets in Philadel
phia ; and its demenfions are 1 !o feet on Thitd
flrect, and about 100 feet westward.
THOMAS WILLING, Prefidcnt.
AND
Tuesday, March 18, 1794.
Bojion,
a—tf
AVIS.
cop 3 AT
George Bringhurft,
' COJCH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Epilcopal burying-
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requeuing their future favors, as well as
tho e of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at Jhe
ftiorteft notice, all kinds of carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phserons with and
without crane necks, coathees, chaises, Icitte
reens, wind for fulkeys and chaiis, and li'arjiefs
of every description, in the neatest and newest
fafllion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he ha 3 a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the lead doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaftion to those whopleafe to employ him
He has for sale, several carriages alinoft
finiflied, such as coachees, an Italian windfot
chair, hung on steel springs, a light' phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794. 111
Scheme of a Lottery,
To ralfe 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, deducting 15 per Cent, from
the Prl-z.es—this Lottery confijls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
14,539 Prizes and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Diieftorsof the Sdcicty for eftabiilhmg
Ufelul Manufacturer, having resolved to
crest LOTTERIES lor raifmg OnlHundrfo
Thobsa nD Dol lak a, agreeably to an A6f of
the LT-g'fl ture of the St.ite of New-Jersey, have
appointed the following pcifotis to luperintcnd
and dire£t the^ rawing of the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rutus King, Herman Le Roy, James
VVatlon, Richard Hariilon, Abijah Hammond,
and Corclius of the city ot N«*w-York<—
Thomas Willing, fofeph Ball, Matthew M'Con
'nei and Andrew bayard, of the cvy of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howcllj Esq.
F.has Boudinot* (rencral Elias Dayton, Jam s
Paiker, John Bayard, Do£lor Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton, Jolhua M. Wallacc, Joleph
Bloomfield, and Elifha Boudmot, of N.w-Jer
fey, who offer tbe following Scheme ot a Lot
teryt and pledge themselves to the public, that
they will'take e*ery a (Tu ranee and precaution in
their power 10 have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from tirve to time, as received, into
the Banks at fJew-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for th£ purpofeof paving Priz s, which
(hall be immediately discharged by a check
npod one of the Banks.
SCHEME:
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 20,000
1
a
5
10
20
ico
300
1000
10,000
5; ooo
2,000
1,000
500
100
5°
20
*#
12
10
2000
3000
8100
14,539 262,000
23,461 Blanks- First drawn number, 2,000
Laltdrawn number, 2,000
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each fs 266.000
The drawing will commeuce, under the in
fpedion of a Committee oi 'the buperintendants,
as soon as the Tickets are iold t ot which timely
notice will be given.
The Supertntendants have appointed John N.
Cumming, of Newark, Jacou K. Harotnberg,
of New-Brunfwtck, anu Jonathan Rhea* of
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample fecdiity lor diichaiguig the
trust reposed in them.
In order to fecurethe pundual payment
of the Prizes, the Superintendantsof the Lottery
have directed chat the Manageis ihali each enter
into bdndt in 40,000dollais, with tour luificieiit
fccilriti s, to peiiorm their inftiudions, the lub
itanceof which is
I. That wheneVer either of the Manager*
shall receive the turn ot Three Hundred Dollars,
he (hall immdiately place the lame in one of the
Banks of New-York ot Philadelphia, (o (he
ciedit ot the Governor of the Society, and such
ot the Superintendents as live in the city where
the monies are placed, to remain there until the
Lottery is drawn, for the payment ol the Priies.
11. The Managers tq, take (ufticient lecunty
for any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
refponuble for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab*
ftra&s of which (hall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society*
Paterfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to cilhct of the above gentle,
men, information will be given whete tickets
may be had.
February 24,
[Whole No. 540.]
CONGRESS.
House of Reprefentat'rves.
Friday, March 14.
In committee of the -whole on Mr. Ma,Jtfon's
rejuluticns.
[continued.]
Mr. Nicholas said he (hould not at
tempt to follow the gentleman lalt\ip thro'
his eloquent address, or undertake to go
into an answer of the variety of general
charges brought forward againil the reso
lutions.
He wished only to take notice of one
of two points in the debate. It \v a s
laid, that the exigence of the resolutions
would rather be a bar to the termination
of war than an inducement with ouf ene
mies to make a peace. Is it to be ima
gined, he sliced, if Great Britain intends
to drag us into a war, that she will a
bandon it without being compiled ?——•
When forced to the neceflity of wishing
for peace, Will (he not be disposed to
grant us fomc advantages to have her conl
- with us put in as favorable a situa
tion as before hostilities, by a relaxtion,
at lead, of those resolutions. But are
we prepared to to fay, that after being
dragged into a war we are willing to make
peace without obtaining some security that
we (hall not be mole (ted in future > If he
Uriderftodd what a conduct truly dignified
On such an occasion ought to be, we
(hould infill not only on a reparation of
the injury and insult, but (hew to the world
that after obtaining complete fatisfa&iori
we were determined to obtain security a
gainst future aggressions,
The prefect measures did not, as has
been afTerted, originate in favoritifm, they
are not intended to repay a debt of grati
tude, they are drawn forth by the inju
ries infii&ed by one nation and are meant
to benefit the country for which we are
sent to legislate. If, however, in their o
peration they (hould benefit France this
was surely no argument against them, on
the contrary it ought to be an additional
argument in favor of them as we owe that
nation a debt of gratitude,
Mr. Kittera rose to call the attention
of the committee to the immense waste of
time which the discussion of these resolu
tions had ocealioned. Two months had
been in a great measure spent in discussing
them. It was like confultmg on the im
provements to be made to an edifice threat
ened by a conflagration. He hoped the
question would be taken.
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
30,000
Mr. Page. I acknowledge that thedeten
tion of our posts ; the indian war in con
fluence of that detention ; the Algerine
piracies which are supposed to be derived
from the fame source, and the violation of
our rights as a neutral nation, might fnr
nifli Congress with juftifiable reasons for a
declaration of war : but if war with Bri
tain and her allies be considered as a great
er evil than a war with the Indian tribe.;
the depredations of the Algerines, and of
Britiih cruizers, and the insult to the Flag
of the United States, Congress ought not
to declare war; nor to take any steps
which may involve the United S'.ates in
holtilities—nor ought they to ftiew a dis
position to put any other conltru£Hon on
the proceedings of the Britiih government,
than they have publicly avowed ; and as
the United States have so long evidenced
to the world their disinclination to make a
common cause with their allies, who un
doubtedly have less need of our nff-lbnce
now, than they had when Congress firft
met, and the enemies of our alii, s, parti
cularly Britain, (though (he indeed, some
time iince, when slushed with a profpeft
of success, iflued orders of an holtile na
ture againlt us) in all probability will soon
be disposed to peace.
I fay as this is the cafe, 1 cannot be in
duced to believe that the United States arc
in danger of a war with Britain; and to
(hew my disposition to preserve peace with
her, I prefer entering into regulations of
36,000
81,000
tu&ftf.Jir commerce between her fubje&s, and
our citizens, to a blustering bullying con- ,
duit—to a vain paiade of military prepa
rations, which may furni<h forne nations
with matter for ridicule, and the enemies
of our growing itrength with a hint of an
easy and effectual method of involving us
in ruinous expenctiv. Sir, if a declaration
of war had been made fcy Britain, or by
Congress, then the arguments used by
forne gentlemen againlt the resolutions
would have weight with me—but as those
gentlemen, from what, till within a few
days, had fallen from them, appeared as
averse to war as 1 am, I cannot believe that
they will agree to a jdeclaration of war;
and without luch a declaration, 1 fee no
reason to be diverted from an attempt to
regulate our commerce, and in that man
ner, especially, Sir, which it was the wi(h
of our fellow-citizens it Ihould be regulat
ed ; a wi(h, to which I think we owe the
produdiion of the Federal Government,
and the exiftenceofthis House.
Mr. Lyman spoke nearly as follows
The difcuflion of this question hath al
ready engrossed much time. It hath been
postponed. I was in favor of a postpone
ment because, Sir, I then thought, I now
think the house were not in pofleffion of
all the information and premises neceflary
to guid; their determination on all the re
solutions proposed. It was then said, Sir,
that although we had aggravated com
plaints against Great Britain, (he could
not be so infatuated as not to render justice;
that those injuries were in atrain of nego
ciation and that it would be ralhnefs and
foily to interrupt them. I confefs, Sir,
that this reasoning had its weight with
me ; but the cafe now aiTumes a different
face. Is there any gentleman that still
doubts of the hostile and mad intentions of
that nation. Their aggressions have en
creafed: they meditate still more, and
have denied us in an unequivocal manner
any compensation ; they have added insult
to injury. Ido not fay these things with
a view to fire the public mind to resent
ment—that is alraady done to such a de
gree as to want the rather to be allayed
and given a proper direction. But it has
been said, Sir, that instead of that firm
front of defence which the danger of our
situation requires, these resolutions are
important and trifling—mere pap. I can
not think, Sir, this language is any com
pliment to the understandings of either
the community, or this house, or even
the gentlemen themselves, who so zealonf
ly oppose them. If they are infignifi
carrt as the gentlemen declare them they
ought wholly to be difreyarded. No, Sir,
they are got infignificant; they present us
with a.part at lcall; of a just and temperate
defence against a nation that with unac
countable enmity plunders and insults
us. If they are infignificant, lam con
tent to be undeceived, as not compre
hending them. I do not intend at this
time to go into a minute consideration of
the general nature of the resolution ;
that hath already been amply done, and I
am convinced, and cannot be afraid to ha
zard my opinion to the public, that it is
founded in immutable natural principles,
that will itand the tell of time. There
cannot be a plainer explanation than reci
procity of advantages in navigation and
commerce.
It is for our interest to countera&the
commercial regulations of other nations
by those of our own ; to repel their fa
brics and manufactures from our country,
and to replace them with our own. We
have both the right and the power to do
it. These are truths that have been al
ways acknowledged in this country. Con
viction of their importance was one among
the causes which produced the present
constitution. We have hitherto forborn
the exercise of this right. Ido not pre
ted to arraign the motives, 1 believe they
were good, because, Sir, I recoiled that
our commerce and navigation for some
years until late hath been prosperous; al
though owing perhaps less to permanent
than adventitious causes ; to the fame cau
ses pofllbly which now conspire to oppress
and despoil it, and threaten a total difTo
lution. Was this not the cafe, I could
have been content, nay I would have pre
ferred ftfll further forbearance; but the
evils are alarming; something is unavoid
ably neceflary to be dqne, and as no gen
tleman propofea any substitute for the pre
sent system contemplated, I find mylelf
compelled to endeavour to make the bed
of thi*, with a firm reliance and perfusi
on that it wiH promote the peace and pros
perity of our country ; for I do not
think any thing we (hall do will have a
tendency to raaVe Great Britain lefa hos
tile or more friendly.
•She has already convinced us, and eve
ry one ra«ft be convinced, that we cannot
expeil any tiling from her moderation and
ju(lice*; and I hope we shall have nothing
further to fear from her force. I hope,
Sir, and I believe tins measure will attach
and encreafe the number of our friend#
and diminish and confoUmt our enemies ;
for I can by no means iubferihe to the
do&rine, that a national character is
wholly abdraoiled from all sensation of be
nevolence, gratitude, humanity,—virtues
that so highly adorn iudiviitual characters.
These, Sir, are my imprefiions ; the re
sult of a cautious and even anxious inves
tigation, in which I have endeavoured
not to be transported by either pafiion or
prejudice—but to obey the calm dictates
of my understanding, with that inde
pendence and fteidinefs which is indifpen-
Cble. (To be continued.)
January 30.
(Mr. Madison's Speech concluded.)
Mr. H's letter he observed, closed the
correspondence on the fubjeit of commer
cial arrangements, being justly considered
by the executive as a final proof, that the
pawers of Mr. H. were incompetent, and
irrelative to the object ; and that it would
be improper to open a foi-mal negociation
with him, under them. His inftruftions
might be a rule and a warrant to himfelf,
but not being even exhibited, could be no
evidence of his authority, to the executive.
And his plenipotentiary commission in the
ordinary form, could never be underttood
as relating to the special objects he pro
posed to discuss. According to the usage
of nations, a special commission is, in such
cases, always furnilhed and required. Mr.
M. was persuaded, that no sovereign in
Europe would listen for a moment to such
a claim as that of Mr. H. and that the
Britifli court would have been offended
at such an one from an American minister.
He thought therefore that the executive
had equally consulted dignity aud pru
dence, in silently dnoppiug thy fubjeft in
the fame manner they did, until Mr. H.
should receive and produce adequate pow
ers in theaccuftomed form; as might rea
sonably be expected, if his court was c(uly
disposed to meet the United States, in an
amicable arrangement of commerce, by
treaty.
That the con ft ruction put by Mr. H.
on his powers, was inadmissible, appeared
to Mr. M. to lefult from theconftru&ion
itfelf. v Either thp general plenipotentiary
commifiion was tp be taken in the techni
cal and limited ferife in which it is appplied
to the ordinary diplomatic objects of a
stationary public minister ; or, in a literal
sense, without regard to fueh limitation.
In the former sense, it clearly does not ex
tend to negociations for a treaty. In the
latter sense it would extend to the concluji
on of a treaty, and not merely to negotia
tion, as Mr. H. explains and limits.
Mr. M. adverted next to the state of
the correspondence relating to the treaty
of peace. It appeared, he observed, that
as long ago as the 29th of May, 1792,
the Secretary of State had addressed to
Mr. Hammmond, a full explanation of
our rights and demands, under that treaty
—that on the 2d June, Mr. Hammond
informed the Secretary, that he (hould
transmit it without delay for the consider
ation of his court; and accordingly did
forward it in the course of a few days; that
on the 13th Nov. 1792, previous to the
present meeting of Congress, Mr. H. was
desired by the Secretary, in pursuance of
a charge from the President, to let him
know whether an answer could yet be
given to the letter of May 29, 1782; Mr.
H. replied that it could not, ; but that
he was confident the delay was to be as
cribed to the continuance of the cause al
luded to in a former answer to a similar re
quell.
The cause alluded to was the interetting
po ft lire of things in Europe, which it
was said, had diverted the attention of the
British government to obje£ts of a more
pressing nature ; and this consideration
had been urged by several members, as
an apology for the filerice observed towards
the United Slates. Mr. Madifonthought
very differently. The interval between
the receipt of the letter written by the
Secretary in May 1792 ; and the accelTi
on of Great Britain to the war against
France, had been fufficieut for the pur
pose of preparing and fending the proper
inftru&ions to Mr. H. Mr. M. added,
that the profpe£t of being engaged in new
controversies of a more serious kind in
(lead <jf juftifying an inattention to an ex
isting one, ought to have quickened the
efforts for a previous settlement of the lat
ter. This is the courfc dictated by pru
dence, to nations as well as to individuals;
and where a right disposition concurs, it
is the natural course.
It had beeii mentioned as a further rea
son ajainll the commercial proportions,
at this time, that they might draw upon
us the resentments of the Combined pow
ers. Mr. M. could fee no ground for
such an apprehension. The Combined
powers were pretty fully occupied with
France ; they could have no pretext for
conceining themselves with us, in a cafe
where we did not concern ourselves with
them ; and there was the less room for
imagining that the combination could
mifconllrue the measure into an offence
against: them ; as two of the parties, Prus
sia and the United Netherlands were in
treaty with the United States, and are
favored by the propofitioris.
7. It was finally contended that admit
ing our situation to be such as had beea
described, the mode proposed was an ob
je&ionable one.
Mr. M. said he had no predilections for
the mode that could prevent his giving
a ready preference to a better, if a bfctter
should be offered. And unless it (honld
be said, that the Legislature ought to ad
journ without doing any thing for the
public relief, he thought it incumbent on
those who objected to one proposition to
fuhftitute another that would be less ob
je&ionable. By this he meant a propo
sition not merely better in itfelf; but one
that would probably be thought so, both
within and without doots; and be more
likely to coincide with the sentiments of
erery part of the union, as well as to con
ciliate a majority of voices in the public
councils,
The firft que!Kon,he said, was whether
any thing ought to be done. If this be
decided in the affirmative, as he presum
ed to be the Wenfe of a majority of the
committee—and if war was not in con
templation as of course was taken for
granted ; the next question could only lie
between negotiation, and commercial re
gulations. Negociation it had been (hewn
was in no train, or profpeft, that could
juftify reliance on it. Commercial regu
lations alone remained. They would be
pacific in their operation. They were
the means belt suited to the temper of our
constituents. And he fmcerely believed,
that, If judiciously framed, they would be
more likely to answer the reasonable pur
poses of the community, than any others
that could be proposed.
Congress of the United States.
IN SENATE,
Friday, March 7th, 1794.
On motion,
Ordered, That Mr. Foster be the joint
committee for enrolled bills on the part of
vhe Senate, during the abfcnce of Mr.
Vining. '
Ordered, That the Secretary notify the
Hoyfe of Representatives thereof.
The bill sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" an ast making appropriations for the
support of government, for the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety four,"
was read the third time.
Rifolved, That this bill pass as amend
ed.—
Ordered, That the Secretary desire the
concurrence of the House of Rcprefen
tativej. in the amendments to this bill.
On motion,
Resolved, That Mr. King, Mr. Lang
don, and Mr. Strong, be a committee to
join wit h such committee as the Houfa of
Representatives may appoint on their part
to confkler and report what business is ne
ceflary to be done by Congress in the pre
sent feflio.n, and what part of the bufi
nef» now depending may be without great
inconvenience, postponed until the next
fefllon ; that the proceedings may be so
regulated a» to close this fefllon by the
firft Monday in April next.
Ordefed, That the Secretary commti
nicate this relolution to the House of Re
presentatives and request the appointment
of a joint committee on their part.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Bgckley their Clerk :
" Mr. President—The House of Re
presentatives ha»e pafied a bill, entitled
" an act to prohibit the canying on the
Slave Trade from the United States to
any foreign place or country," also a bill,
entitled, " an ast limiting the time for
presenting claims for destroyed certificates
of certain defenptions," in which bills
severally they desire the concurrence of
the Senate."—And he withdrew.
The Senate resumed the second read
ing of the bill " in addition to the ast for
the punishment of certain crimes against
the United States," together with the a
mendments reported by the committee,
and after progress, the further coniidera
tion thereof was postponed.
Mr. Foster re[)orted from the commit
tee for enrolled bills, that they had ex
amined the bill, entitled " an acl for the
remiflion of the duties arising on the ton
nage of sundry French veflels which have
taken refuge in the ports of the United
States," and that it was dulv enrolled.
A message from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their Clerk :
" Mr. President—The Speaker of tlie
House of Representatives having iigned
an enrolled bill, I am directed to bring
it to the Senate for the signature of the
Vice-Prefident."—And he withdiew.
The Vice-Prefident*figned the enrolled
bill last reported to have been examined,
and it was delivered to the committee to
be laid before the Prefidentof the United
for his approbation.
Mr. Foster reported from the commit,
tee on eniolled bills, that they this day
laid the last mentioned enrolled bill before
the President of the United States.
The bill sent from the House of Repre
sentatives for concurrence, entitled, "An
ast to prohibit the carrying on the slave
trade from the United States to any fo
reign place or country"—was read the
firft time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
The bill sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" An ast limiting the time for presenting
claims for destroyed certificates of certain
descriptions"—was read the full time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock on
Monday morning.
Monday, March 10.
The Vice-Prelident laid before the Se
nate a letter from his Excellency Jofiah
Bartlctt, governor of the state of New-
Hampshire, encloling the remonftrancc of
the Legislature of that state, against the
determination of the Circuit Court for
the Diftrift of New-Hampshire, held at
Exeter on the 24th day of O&ober 1793;
which letter and papers referred to were
read.
On motion,
Ordeied, That they be committed to
Mr. Livermore, Mr. King, and Mr. Lang
oon, to consider and report thereon to
the Senate.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" An ast to prohibit the carrying on the
slave trade from the United States to any
foreign place or country," was read the
second time.
Ordered, That the further considera
tion thereof be the order of the day for
Wednesday next.
Agreeably to the order of the day the
bill " to erect a light-house on the head
land, and Cape of Hatteras ; and a light
ed beacon on Occacock Island in the state
of North-Carolina," was read the second
time and amended.
Ordeied, That this bill pass to the
third reading.
On motion,
That the petition of Francis Mentges,
presented the I2th of February last, be
referred to a committee.
It pafl"ed in the negative.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk:
" Mr. President—The House of Re
presentatives concur in the amendments of
the Senate to the bill, entitled, "An ad
making appropriations for the support of
government for the year one thou&nd fc
yen hundred artd ninety-four"
" They also concur in the resolution of
the Senate of the 7th inflant appointing a
joint committee on their part.
" The President of the United State*
hath notifiedthe House of
that he did on the 7th instant approve,
and (ign the ast, entitled, " An ast for
the remission of the dutie« arising on the;
tonnage of sundry French veffeU wkich
have taken refuge in the porti of tho U
nited States—
And he withdrew.
The Senate resumed the feeond reading
of the bill, " in addition to the ast forAc porafliment of certain crimes againfl
the United States."
On motion,
That the Secretary of the Senate be
4irr£led to procure from the Secretary for
the Department of State, the secret in
ttru-ftio >s given to the Commissioners for
concluding a treaty between the United
States and the King of Sweden.
It parted in the negative.
After progress in the consideration of
the bill last mentioned, the further confi
guration thereof at this time was poftpon
cd.
Mr. Vining reported from the commit
tee op enrolled bills, that they had exa
mined the enrolled " resolution proposing
to the several states an amendment to the
constitution of the United States refpeft
ing the judicial power," and that it was
duly enrolled.
(To be continued.)
AMERICA.
Sr. JAGO de la VEGA, "January 30.
Of the troops lately arrived, under Sir
Charles Grey, upwards of 1100 are reported
sick and unfit for duty.
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 18.
Mr. Fenno,
The following opinion of the Attorney Gene
ral at Jamaica, throws some light upon an
interesting and very important fubjeft—
its publication is therefore requested.
Opinion of the Attorney General of Jamaica.
CASE.—Kingston, Feb. 12, 1794.
" AN American veflel was loaded with
flour by her owners in America, and sent to
Port au Prince in Hifpaniola, where her car
go was fold and by means thereof, and bills
of exchange, a cargo was purchased on ac
count of the owners, confiding among other
things of the produce of Hifpaniola, in the
months of October, November, December
and January last. The veflel left Port au
Prince on the 1 zth of January, and was taken
by a Bricifh privateer on the fame day, and
sent down to this Illand, where she arrived
before the publishing the inftru&ion of the
iix:h day of November.
The cargo has been libelled as French pro
perty —and your opinion and advice is
quelted, whether under the foregoing circum
stances, the cargo will be condemned, npt
withftanding it is proved American property,
and whether a claim fliould not be put in on
behalf of the owners, notwithstanding the
said inftrufUon."
ANSWER.
" I am of opinion the inftrufiion alluded
to, does not intend the condemnation of
it dire<sls to be flopped, and detained—Nor
can the term " legal adjudicaton" be so
understood with any propriety—l apprehend
the obje»fl of the inftru&ion is to guard a
gainst the too easy difmiflal of vessels and car
goes by the commanders of ships of war, at
their own discretion, and also to insure the
interruption of the supply of provisions to
the French colonies in hostility with Great
Britain —If thereforfe the veflel and cargo
should by the court be adjudged neutral pro
perty, I am of opinion there can be condem
nation as prize.'
« ROBERT SEWELL."
Attorney General.
Signed
FROM A CORRESPONDENT.
In the present situation of the affairs of the
United States, it is time to Jl'ifle allpoliticial
and party resentments-, and to unite in adopt
ing the bejlpoffible means that can be devised
for the faf'ty of our common country. With
regard to the imperious conduct of the British,
in the IVefl-Indies, (which (was pojftbly dictated
chiefly •with a view of diftreffmg the French;
the government will no doubt try what can be
done by negotiation, in order if pojfible to put
a flop to such proceedings in future, and obtain
reparation JorpaJl injuries. If our reprefen
ationr are not attended to y the important quefl
ion will naturally occur to the mind of eJt . y
real American, in what manner we are to pro
ceed as a nation, to make our rights re/peSed,
and to obtain jujlict ?
Monarcbial governments declaim on nation
al honor, afinfults offered to their dignity, &c.
lubitb are Jsmetimes merely ideal. This is
net tbe language of Rebubjics; all tbey have
to contend for is their rights, and to consider
tbe real evils tbey either have, or are likley to
fvjlaxn.
It behoves every man to count the cojl difpaf
ftGnatelybefore be consents to engage in a <war
wijji nations who follow it as a trade. Let
brm tbi kfertottjly what, and bow much the
great body of the people are to gain or lose by
tbe evntefi. In deliberating on measures that
may trrvolve t be fate of millions, be ought
to consider ivbat are the true interejls of bis
own country, independent of tbofe of any 0-
iher nation• Gen. Ad.
VALUE of the EXPORTS from Charleston,
from the ift of OA. 1791, to 30th Sept.
1793, as taken from the Culloin House
books of Charleston diftriit, and transmit
ted to the Congress of the United States
f Dots. (':s.
From OA. to Dec. 1791, 377,796 68
Fnom Jan. to March, 1793, 1,602,035 51
From April to June, 1793, .873,113 1
From July to Sept. 1793, 259,471 23
THEATRE.
OBSERVER No. XI.
Mr. Fenno,
THE Observer has been indulged so often,
with room in your paper for his occasional
(ketches, on the entertainments at the New
Theatre ; that some of your readers may
think an apology neceflary j especially as in
a former number a repetition of observations
was announced. The Observer has been one
of those, who, altho' deeply irnprefled with
the late calamitous licknefs in this city, wilh
ed the New Theatre, not only to be opened,
but the players to be encouraged.
To sport with the feelings of such, as have
fuffered the loss of relatives and friends* the
Observer thinks himfelf incapable: And when
human life, and all its attendants, are viewed
in comparison with immortality, no man can
be more fully imprefTed, than he is, with the
relative appearance and import.—But when
human nature is considered with the atten
tion, worthy of a rational Observer, it will
be found that dt'rverjions are abfolute'y neces
sary, perhaps to existence ; but if not to e.\-
iftence, certainly to the bappinefs of existence.
To this idea may be added, as a consequence
that mankind will inevitably pursue some
mode of diversion.
To direfl this mode, as rationally and vir
tuously, as poflible, is the wilh of the Observ
er ; may he not fay, is the wlfli of every good
man ? To arreit the natural career of man
kind towards a real or imaginary ha£>pinefs,
is not the part of a wife or good man ; but
to go with it, and attempt a regulation of its
pallioris, and a dire&ion to a rational point.
The Observer attends and encourages others
to attend the Theatre, because he thinks, the
tendency of improvement is greater, there,
than in most of the diversions, which will
certainly be indulged, if the Theatre is denied
them : He hopes, to call the attention of the
gay and unthinking of both sexes, to the ob
jects which are aione proper for their con
templation, at the refpeaive exhibitions ; to
corre& their excels, and excite the exercif;
of their goodness:
To mark the excellencies of performance
and performers; to hint the faults, if any
occur, and, gently urge a cure; and most of
all, he hopes, he shall be happy enough, to
contribute at least, to the benevolent task, of
wiftiing the tear from the eye of aftli&ion of
lighting up a smile on the face of grief, and
of alleviating the burdens of the " woe worn
heart."
A. B.
People of the last description, it may be
said, will not attend the Theatre; The Ob
server replies, that they may at least venture
to read his sketches, for they will contain no
thing to offend modesty, or wound
the heart of afili&ion.
If the Observer can contribute to the hap
piness of his fellow-citizens, if he can beguile
any portion of time, however short, and place
it to the account of virtue ; if he can " cheat
expectation and sorrow, of one weary mo
ment," and help to strew the paths of life,
with the innocent rose-buds of delight; he
has a confidence your readers may forgive
him, and feels that his conscience will juftify
him. With these views, and this apol >gy,
the Observer, will occasionally ask, for a small
portion of your paper, for his remarks on
the New Theatre, and the persons and things,
that therein may appear.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK March 17.
Capt. Innes, who arrived here on Saturday
in 42 days from Gibraltar, informs us that
Lord Hood had not effedled the burning of
all the French ships at Toulon as reported ;
but that several of them were recovered by
the French.
SHIP NEWS.
Arrived at this Port.
Brig Susan and Polly, Innes, Gibraltar
Schr. Prince and Liberty, Glad, St. Euftatia
Capt. Innes come out under convoy of a
Portuguese frigate, the Captain of which
treated him very politely.
NORFOLK, March 8.
Extract of a letter from the Captain of a vel
fel at St. Bartholomews, belonging to this
port, dated February 9, 1794.
" There has been 28 American veflelrcon
demned in Montferat, a measure they have
not dared to take in any other island, though
they stop all they can lay hold of. Their or
ders are to take all neutral veflels bound to or
from a French Island, for legal adjudication ;
which word has puzzled all the Judges in
their Islands, except that of Montferat, who
fays it means condemnation."
NEWARK, (N. J.) March 6.
.. At a refpefUble meeting, of the inha
Dollars, 3,112,526 43
bitanti of the town of Newark, aflem
bled at Mr. Seabury's tavern, agreeable to
a notice inserted in yesterday's Newark
Gazette, in the following words:
ffj* " Those persons who are defirom
of forming themselves into a Republican
Society, are requelled to meet next Thurs
day evening, at candle lighting, at Mr.
Seabury's tavern : The conduct of a cer
tain class of Citizens of late, render an
inilitution of this kind at the present time
peculiarly requisite."
Wm. P. Smith, Esq. was chosen Chair
man.
The notice calling the inhabitants to
gether being read, and the business of the
meeting being opened, after fomc debate
the following resolutions were adopted
three or four only dilfenting.
Kefolved I. That the Society proposed
to be elVablifhed, for the purposes expres
sed in the notice is improper and unneces
sary.
2. That the latter clause in the advcr
tifement which contains matter of reflec
tion on the conduit of a certain clai's of
Citizens in this Town, is illiberal and
uniounded, and in the opinion of this
meeting, the author thereof merits cen
sure.
Ordered, That ElilTia Boudinot, J. N.
Camming, and David A. Ogden, Efqr's,
be a Committee to publilli the above rtfo-
lutions.
BOSTON, March 10.
The schooner Nancy, Captain Butman,
arrived 2d instant at Salem, from Alexan
dria : On her paflage (he took up the
crew of a brig beloriging to Baltimore,
which had met with a variety of disasters.
She failed last fall for the Weft-Indies ; at
Cape Francois they fold their cargo, and
went to the Mole, where the mailer
(Montgomery) and all the hands but one,
died. The mate, Mr. Cain, then took
charge of the veflel, (hipped another mate
under him, and more men ; and tvas com
ing home in ballast : on the homeward
.passage, Mr. Cain died, and his mate took
charge of the veflel. Falling to the north
ward of their course the veflel (truck upon
Nantucket Shoals, had her quarter stove
in, bowsprit carried away and the sea
swept the deck, which carried off Mr.
Murray, the mate that was (hipped in the
Weft-Indies ; the vessel beat over the reef
after striking several times—the hands
then hove her to, and got her clear, and
in that situation (he was'met by the fehoon
er which brought home the people.
The above mentioned brig belonged to
Meflieurs Oliver & Thomson, Merchants,
Baltimore.
[The Log-Book, Sea-Letters, and
fume of capt.Montgomery's private papers,
are partly in the polftffion of Mr. Norris,
of Salem, and part in the care of Mr.
Leach of Beverly,—owners of the schoon
er Nancy.
BALTIMORE, March I 5,
IV• are informed that an Englijh Jloop of
war cam; into Hampton Roads, on Monday
lajl but from what part of the world, we
have not been able to learn-
Henry Rape _ Srate of Maryland.
v. ) High Court of Chancery,
Benjamin Gaither v March sth. 1794.
and \
Basil Gaither
The Complainant flutes
in his bill that the defendants Benjamin Gai
tlier and Rafil Gaither were seized in fee ifs
tenants in common of a tratt of land in Fre
derick County, called Hammond's Strict ; —
that be ng so seised, Basil executed a power
of attorney to Benjamin authorizing him to
fell his, the said Bafii's int'crelt irl the fa d
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin fold
the said land to a certain William Gaither for
the confederation of fix hundred pound; which
hath been since paid, that the said William
hath afligned to the Complainant Henry Rape
the bond executed by the said Bet jainin for
the conveyance of t.ie said land : The Com
plainant now further dates (ard so appears
to the Chancellor) that the defendant; are
uon-refidents of the itate of Maryland, and
therefore out <?f the reach of the process of
this courr.
It is the efore adjudged and ordeied, that
the Complainant piocure a copy of" tins or
der to be inferred in the new (paper of Angell
and Sullivan, and in the United States Gazet e
at least three weeks fucceflivelv, before the
twentieth day of May next ; to the intent
rhar the Defendants and all others, who may
conceive t emlelves interested in the premis
es, may hare notice to appear in this court,
on or before the third Tuesday in September
next, t> (hew can e wherefore a decree should
not pafi for veft'ngin the Complainant« com
plete legal title to the land aforefaid.
Tetf,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWABD,
® Reg. Cur. Con
itathSnJw
Marc'.i «8
SIIIP NEWS.
ARRIVED.
Ship Industry, Perry, Cadiz Jo days
Brig Patty, Wickman, Havannah 17
Five Sifters, Morrifon, N. York 3
George & Harriet, Bernett, do. 3
Sloop Thomas & Sally, Mitchell, Virginia.
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
March 19,
Will be performed,
A Comic Opera, called the
Cajlle of Andalusia.
( Written by the Author of the Poor
Soldier.)
Don Scipio, Mr. Finch
Don Cieiar, Mr. Darley.
Don Fernando, Mr. Marshall.
Don Juan, Mi. Morris.
Don Alphonfo, Mr. Moreton.
Pedrillo, Mr. Bates.
Spado, Mr. Wignell.
Sanguino, Mr. Green.
Philippo, Mr. Darley, jun.
Banditti, Meflrs. Harwood, Cleveland.
Warrell, Blifiet, &c. &c.
Mrs. Warrel.
Mrs. Mai (hall.
Mrs. Bates.
Vi&oria,
Lorenza,
Ifitbella,
Caialina, Miss. Broadhurft.
The Scenes designed and executed by
Mr. Melbourne.
End of the Opera, a cha ra£teriftic Panto-
mimical Dance, called the
Sailors Landlady.
OR, JACK in DISTRESS.
J Mr. Francis.
Ned Haulyard, (with a n:<w Song)
Mr. Darley, jun.
Sailors, Meflrs. Warrell, Bliflett, War
rell, jun. Lee, Bason, and De Moulin.
Lasses, Mrs. Cleveland, Mrs. Bates,
Miss Rowfon and Miss. Willems.
Landlady, Mrs. Rowfon.
Orange Girl, Mrs. De Marque.
To-which will be added, A FARCE, in
two fy&s, called
The SPOIL'D CtilLD
Little Pickle,
Old Pickle,
Tag,
John,
Thomas,
Miss Pickle,
Maria,
Margery,
Susan,
Just Published,
n one handl'ome volume, umo. Pride 5».
AND FOR SALE BV
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin s 11 Second
Stmt,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by thi
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
CorrcQed and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM'LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
Piofeflor of Moral Plulofophy, and the Law
ol Nature, and of History ;
and Minitlerof the Englith Cliuichat li
tre ht.
Aliquid Temper ad communt-m utilititem as.
fiKnduin. Cic lro.
The Firjl American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality, if right
ly underllcmd, i» the only basis on which
univerfa! jufticc, lie red order, and perfeift
freedom, can be firmly bu'lt, and permanent
ly (ecure'd. The view of it exhibited in this
eflay, at the fame time that it reprefies the
infolence'of oiiice, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages of oppreffioit ; confirm!, in the
moll forcible manner, the neceflity of subor
dination, and the just demands of lawfdf au
thority. So far indeed, from loofeping the
bands of- society, that itriaintainjinviolate,
every nittural and every civil diftinAioh,
diaws more closely every (btral tie, unites in
one harmonious and justly poportioned sys
tem, arid brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
iure, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. eodlwtn&ftf
ADVERTISEMENT.
A meeting of the Citizens is to be heldvn
Tburfday next so'clock P Mjxt the City-Hall
to decide on the Report made on saturday lajl,
of an Instrument exprefve of the Thanks of
the Citizens, for the fer-vices rendered by the
Committee of Health, during the lan calamity.
Mrs. Marrtiatl'
Mi. Finch-
Mr. Francis.
Mr. Bliflet
Mr. Darley-
Mrs. Rowfon*
Mrs. Cleveland.
Mrs. Gates
Miss Willems"For Sale by the Subfcrlhers,
MUSCOVADO Sugar in hhds.&bbsl.
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of fupcrior quality, in pipes
and quarter
Spanish Indigo.
Bolton Beef, in barrels.
And a small invoice of Muslins.
NAI.BRO'&JOHN ERAZIER,
No. 164, South Pront-ftreet.
fmw4w
March 8.
Loft at the Theatre,
IN Chefnut Street, a handfomc Shawl, com
monly called Camels Hair ; worked with co
lours. Whoever will return it to the Printer,
(hall receceive a handfomc reward.
Marcn 12, 1794-
Writing
ON SIGN-BOJIRDS, JAPJNN'D
PLATES, &c.
Done in the moll elegant manner, and after
the firft matters; likewise,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finilhed at the shortest notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
111 Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth llreets.
dtf
March 4.
TREASURrofPENNSYLrJiJIA,
February 14, 1794.
PUBLIC Notice is heieby given to all perlons
indebted to the Commonwealth, lor monies
borrowed of the Trustees of the Loan Office,
eliablifhed per ast of the 4th of April, 1785,
that the time is expired when the last payment
should have been made, and every juftifiable
indulgence having been granted, That unless
they come forward and pay off their refpedlive
balances on or before the hrft day of April next,
precepts will issue against all delinquents with
out regard to persons or circumltanees. All
former and existing fheriffs, who have money
in their hands belonging to said Office, are re
quetted to bring it to ine on or belore the above
period, otherwise I (hill be under the dilagree
able neccfiity of prosecuting them without dif
tintlion.
CHRISTIAN FEBIGER.
P. S. The Printers throughout the State are
requested 10 in'.ert the above in their papers for
the information of their fellow-citizens. d
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased,
TheHoufeN 0
AND
Lot of Ground
On which it Hands, wherein Jam £ s Biddle
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
street, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet 10 inches in
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold fub
je<sl to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their fucceflors
fcfrever. For terms apply to
Samuel Coates,
Jon at ham Jones,
Anthony Morris,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, dec'd,
*eop 3W
March l, 1794.
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store > No. 25, Dock-
Street :—
A few Bales of Russia Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Tonkav, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Brimstone,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. 20. 3taw6w
WHEREAS an alias subpoena has issued
out of ihc Supreme Court of this Com
monwealth, at the suit of Margarit Evans,
upon 3 petition preferred by the said Marca
r ft, praying for a-Divorce from the bonds of
Matrimony, entered into with Robert Evans.
This is to give notice to the said Robert, that
he be and appear at the said Supreme Court, to
be held at the City of Philadelphia on Monday
the seventh day of April next, at the State.House
in the said City, to answer the matters alledged
in the said petition,
Wm. CHAPMAN,
Sheriff of Bucks County.
March 5, 1794-
To Robert Evans.
A Slitter of Iron
WANTED.
A MAN well (killed in rolling and
flitting Iron into Sheets, may have
good encouragement by calling on the
Printer. Feb. 27. eop4t
This Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement —The Subscription
encreafes daily—Advertijing Favors are
folicited —These conjlitute art ejfential Item
n dimini/hing the Dibit Jide of the Account.
NO RRIS-COU R.T,
Back of the New Library, between Chefnut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or in the mod
elegant manner, and \vit;h dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfVeads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogOieads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
No. in, South Front Ureet
Jan. 2, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
M.Carey,No. 118,High-Jireet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the world.
THIS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all dalles of people, merchants, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
work acquired, that it has palled thro three im
prcflions in the eadern dates, and many houle
holders deem it so ufelul as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theii families. ■ P&ice 2s.
February 4. dtl
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Petersburg in Ruflia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp, ✓
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
March 4,1794.
• 2 45>
War Department.
January 30th 1794.
INFORMATION is hereby given to alt the
military invalids of the United States,that the
sums to which they are entitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become clue
on ihe sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Commilfioners of the Loans
within the dates refpeftively, under the usual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
mud be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpc&ive offices, and alio of the time the
invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prefrdcnt
of the United States,
H. KNOX,
Secretary oj War.
fcjT The printers in the relpe&ive states are
requested topublifh the above in their newspa
pers for the space of two months.
January 30,
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representatives,
December 2 i ft, i 793.
WHEREAS the CommiiTioners of public
Accounts, h.ive reported, that they can
not proceed to the ifiveftigation of the Treasury
Accounts, refpe&ing fpcctal Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation :—Therefore,
Resolved, That all holders of special Indents
be dtre&ed, and required, on or before the firft
day of November next* to deliver the fpccial In
dents in their pofTeflion to one or other of the
Commissioners of the Treasury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to report to tbeCom
miflloners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
there refpeftively received, and also 10 the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next,
and that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, shall be, and the fame are
hereby barred.
Rejolved, That public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And that the Delegates ®f this
in the Congress of the United States, be re
quested to cause this resolution to be publiftied
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York* and that provision will be
made For the expences attending such publica
tion.
*iaw4W
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
senate for their concurrence.
By order of the Houfr,
v JOHN SANFOR D DART, C. H. R.
In the SENATE,
Dbckmbcr 21(1,1793.
Resolved, That this House do concur with the
House of Representatives in the foregoing reso
lutions.
Ordered, That-the resolutions be lent to ihe
House ot Representatives.
" By order of the Senate*
FELIX Clerk.
CWtNoT.
JOHN VAUGHAN,
AND FOR SAI. E% Y
No. 22, Walnut-street.
diw3tawtf
d2m
Imported,
From London, Dublin, and Glasgow,
And now opening for sale,
By MA THE W CAREY,
No. 118, Marhet-Jlreet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION of
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual,Regilter for 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of I 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vo ' s *
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
fineientgeography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Meinty,a collection of eflfays
Varieof Pruflia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
Riiflell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extra&s, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Briflon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's tranllatron of Uuflfon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds ,
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
NVhitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's di&ionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Pi efent state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on phyliognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's fnrvey *
Murphy's life of Dr. John Ton
Necker on executive power
Kifr«s of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
VoJney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with foperb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of" American Indians
Beriington on mate-rialifm and firimaferialiffii
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chariden's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and work l ;
Gi ozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitns
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's /ketches of the history of man
'Liberal opinion?, or the history of Benrgnias
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
R.everies of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. & IIIcT.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little wovld, called
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels intoDeninark,Ru<T:a,Poland,&c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of* the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham ,
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&icc of mid-
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pottos works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qnincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on difeafesof women
Nlcholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's diflertations
London practice of physic
Bell's forgery
Chaptal's chemistry. d
FOR SALE,
By MATHF.W CAREY, No. iiS,
Market-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery:
Designed to exhibit in a new point of view,
its effefls on moials y indujiry, and the peace of
society. Some fa£ts and calculations ate ottered
to prove tf\e labor of freemen to be much more
produdivc than that ot Jlaves ; that covmtrirs air
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion a; the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the n ceftary conclusion, that
slavery is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cents.
February 15,
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public, That from the encouragement
he has received, from several refpeftable Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his services to
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidence
in him ; and he allures those who employ him,
that their confidence shall not be misplaced;—
but it shall be his conltant endeavor, to pay the
ftri£teft attention to their belt interest, in all ne
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber,
in State-Street. oyer Mr. David Townjcnd, Watch
Makei's Shop.——Where PUBtIC SECURI
TIES, of all kinds, are bought and fold ; and
where Commiflion Business of all kinds, will be
tranfafted on reasonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be conllantly exposed lor sale, on
commiltion.
BOOKS,
*»* Cash paid for Salem* Providence, and
Porifmouth BILLS.
U. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York, has any Business to tranjafl at Ho/lon,
in Paper Negociations, he tvill be happy to be em
ployed on comm)Jfion.
Bolton, Jan. 24, 1794.
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON the 31ft of last month, the fubfcrib- r ad
drelfed a letter to MeflYs. Thomas Pearjall
& Son, merchants' in New-York, and inclosed
therein a bank note, No. 445, for twenty dol
lars ; one ditto, No. 151, tor thirty dollars;
and one ditto, No. 3,866, for twenty dollars.
—He also addrelled a letter to Mr. Gilbert
Sa/tonjlafl, merchant in New-York, inclosing a
bank bill, No. 148, for fifty dollars, indorsed
i>n ihe back thereof in these words—" Pay the
yithin co Mr. Gitfarl Saltonjiall—Ebtn. Hunting
ton."—He also addrelled a letter to MelTrs. White
& War dell, merchants in New-York, and inclo
sed a bank bill for ten dollars, and a draft in fa
vor of laid White & Wafdcll, which letters were
put in the Poft-Office on said 31ft January,
be forwarded to New-York ? But by letters re
ceived from the Gentlemen to whom they wae
severally addrcHcd, the money was robbed
from each letter before delivery.
The Public are requested to endeavor a de*
te£lion of the Vlllains who committed the above
jobbery . The bill indorsed, I think was a York
bank bill, and some others, one or more was
of the United Stages bank, remitted at Philadel
phia. Any person discovering the Thief, and
returning the Money, (hall be entitled to fifty
dollars reward.
EBEN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, 14th F b. 1794. gwo,taw
PROPOSALS
For publishing by subscription,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENFIRONS:
Taken from a&nal survey, by A. P. FoLiE f
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS Pian will be engraved on a plate 26
inches Iquarc ; and it will contain an ex
a6l dcfcri'ption of all the fquaves, ftrcets aqd
alleys in the City and Liberties. The situation
of the several public buildings, such as the State-
House, City-Hall, Seat of Congress, Churches,
Meeting-Houses, Hospital, Library and Semina
ries of Learning—of the several Banks, and of
the Federal and State Offices, will be afccrtaincd.
The parts which are built on will be distinguish
ed from those that are not. The courses of the
rivuleis between Delaware and Schuylkill, ancL
as ffcuch of the Canal, intended to connect the
navigation of these two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a
view of the (hipping in the harbor, and an ele~
vation of Congress-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In short, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and dtfirable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power :
and it (hall be compleated with the greatest
poflible dispatch, as soon as th<- generous encou
ragement of subscribers (hall insure to the author
such a sum as will be fufficicnt to defray ex-
pencrs.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with $ach
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the Stibfcribers names, and information con
cerning the police, population and present state
of the cily\
The price to fubferibr >s will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at the time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Subscriptions will be gratefully received at
the principal fiooklcllers iu this city—and the
original Draft may be seen at B. Da vies',
No< 68, Maikft-ftreet, at any time until it Ihall
be put into the hands of the Engraver,
GIFFORD DALLY,^
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
if the Merchant's Coffee-Houfe of this
City :—
RkJiPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippcn-Strcct, be
tween Third and Fourth-Streets, at the Hoofe
formerly occupied hy Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly improved, and -.snow
very commodious; where he has furnilhed him
felf with the befl of LIQUORS, and will tur
nifh a TABLE for Parties, with the best piovt
fions the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
shortest notice. From his long experience in
this line of business, he flatters himfelf he shall
be able to give fatisfzftion to all who may pleafc
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29, 1794.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 5,
South Foiuth-Strcet.
uiw&ftf
m&thif
Daily's Hotel.