evening adve
[No. 52 of Vol. V.]
I R I C E C U R R E N 7*. Dlls. its. Dlls.Cts.
►** quantity.—Dollars too Cents each Oil, Ditto pr cafe 40
— Sweu, best, in flaflts,pr.box *050
PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 18, 1794- Ditto balkcts, 12 bottles 10
J ' T Spermaccti pr. gall. t] B
Train per barrel 10 si
\ DUs.'Ctj. Dlli.Cti Whale 25 «
/XVCHORS pr.lb. 7 10 o . n 5
Allum, £neli[h, pr.cwt. 433 Porter pr. calk, 5 3i
Diito, Roc!, pr. !b. 11 London, pr.doz. .fco
Afli s, pot, per ton, no —"America., ditto bot.mcl. .8>
Pearl, ,34 . 4 o , llt ,\ pr.bbl. 173 .2
Arrack pr. <r ill. ,3, ~g Pork, Burlington, per barrel, i 4
Br;i,idv, common, .00 , 2 o Lower county ,2
C ""»c '3° 140 ~ Carol.Ha ,0
ttrazilctto, or. ton. 50 &■»<, Albany pr. bulhel ,
Burks, pr. M. 4 7 P r ' lb - fS
hip, pr.cwt. 2 67 P,mC, "° ,8
Ditto, pilot 5 Raisins, btft, pr. keg j
Ditto, (\uu 1)/water, per keg 36 40 Ditto pr.jnr 3 33
Beer, Am rioan, in bottles, I Ditto pr. boX 3 vol
pr.doz.bottlesincluded, 1 74 R>ce pr.cwt. 3 20
Ditty pr. barrel, 6 Rosin pr. baric] 278
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 20 Rum, Jamaica, pr. gall©* 116
-Yew England 10 14 Anr.gua 1
— Oak 14 16 —Windward 86
— Merchantable pine 14 Barbadoes 87
-Sap, do. 10 67 Country, N.E. 60
~~ -Mahogany, per foot 10 Salt Detre, pr. cwt. 12 «>»
The above are the (hallnp prices, SalTafras pr. ton 6 8
lor :he yard price, add 1 doi- Shot ditto » l 0 141
'ar 33 cents per 1000. Steel, German pr. lb. 9
Brimftonc in rolls, pr.cwt. * Englith,bliftered, pr. cwt. to'
fieef, Bolton, per barrel 10 u American pr. 1011 113 33
Country ditto 9 10 Crowley's pr. faggot 10 67
-Frclh, p w r cwt. 333 4 67 nak c root pr. lb. to 42
Butter pr. lb. £5 Soap, Isrown per lb. 6
in kegs 15 18 White 8
Candles, Sperm. pr. lb. 48 Cafttle 11
Wax s3 fifi Starch 7 '
— Myrtle Wax 18 Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4 560
— -Mould, tallow 16 Spermaceti, refined, pr, lb. 48
~ —Dipped 14 Sailcloth,Englifh.Nd. 1 ,pr. yard. 40
Clieefc, Engl.lh, pr. lb. 25 Boston, No. T. ditto 36
-7—; 'Country 10 12 No. 11. 35
V'ocolate 16 18 Sugar Lump, pr. lb 2,
C.BnaHlOn 240 2 67 — Lt>af,fiogJ6 refined *2
Cloves j3O Ditto, double do. 33
Cocoa pr. cwt. 10 11 Havannah, white 12 14
Cpflee pr. lb. 16 —. — Ditto, brown, 10 1 1
Coal pr. bulhel 24 33 Muscovado. pr. cwt. 9 12
Copperas pr. cwt. 1 67 Spi 1 iisTurpentine pr.gallon *7
Cordage, American, per Cwt. 9 10 Salt, Allum pr. bulhel 8c
Cotton pr. lb. 27 37 Liverpool 100
Cui rants 12 Cadiz go
Dock.Rulia, pr. pieee 14 Lisbon 8c
r, 1 ,0 li Shipbuild. W. O. frames p.ton, so
Dutch la,l duck, V# so dU™ Live Oak, 22
leathers pr. lb. 5° Ditto red cfcdar, per foot 37
flax ditto ti 12 Shingles, 18 inch, pier M. 3 33 3 67
Flaxfeed pr. bush. 80 9° Ditto 2 feet, 6 50 6
Flour, Superfiue pr. barrel 6 Ditto 3 feet, drefled, 13 1^
— —Common, 5 67 Staves, Pipe pi. 1000
——Bur middlings, best 5 White Oak bogfhead, 20 33
Meal, Indian 2 52 ——Red Oak do. ,g
ditto Rye, 3 67 Leogan 21 33
Ship-ftuiV pr. cwt. 140 167 : Rairel ,6
Tuftic pr. ton, . 10 25
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 4 66 Skins Otter, belt pr. pice , si.
Do. pr. gall. «3 90- so 40
Glue, pr.cwt. .0 ..33 *"*• S"Y 4° 80
Ginacr, white rac» r per lb. 12 Ditto red I£ o
Ditto, common 8 " a ' t " ls 5 + '
Ditto, ground pr. lb. ic ' ctf 33
Ginseng, 20 £ cars 3
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.cafk, 3 73 4 «i° OnS
Ditto, fine glazed 4 Musk-rats it 20
Grain, Wheat pr. bufli 100 lic Beaver, pr. lb. 67 133
Rye 70 Deci, in hair 20 30
Oats 3,5 Tar,N.Jir r ey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 1
——Indian corn 56 Carolina, 32 gall. 2
Barley 1 1 ic Turpentine pi. bbl. 2
. Bed fuelled pr. lb. 7 Tobacco, J. River, bed ioolb. 4 33
Buckwheat, per burti. 40 inferior 333
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 160 \ 4
American, pr. lb. 5 7 Rappahannock 303
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 Coloured Maryland, 533 8
Hides, raw pr.lb. 9 Dark, b 40
Hops 13 Long-leaf , 240
Hoglhcad hoops, pr. M. i 5 Eastern-shore s ! >J
... , . Carolina,new 27 q
Indigo, French per lb. 167
; ——Carolina t i 80 Tea, Hyson pj. lb. no , 28
TroAs, fad pr. ton, >33 33 llc.n, c, 60
Iron, Callings pr. cwt. 3 4 Souchong, % <n
Bar pr. ton, 8*66 Conqo, L ,0
J's 2 5 Bohea, o.
Sheet 173 33 Tallow, refined, per lb. q
-—-Xail rod. 100 33 Tin pr. box, ,333 ,367
Jink, pr.cwt. 4 5 Veidigreafe pr.lb. 60
t.ard, hogs pr. lb. 12 Vermillion, do. ,3, ,67
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 533 i 67 Varnith, pergallon q, 07
in bars 7 Wax, Bees pr.lb. 25 2;
white 10 to 67 While-bone,long pr.lb. 11 00
—i —red 640 661 ... ~ 1 ,
Leather, foal, pr.lb. t7 20 Wine, Madera, pr. pipe, 176 226
Lignum viiE pr. ton, j !t- ™ ,2 ®
Logwood 30 I TencnfTe.pr. gallon 63
Mace pr.lb. g d 5 2
Mackarel, bell pr.bbl. 9 Port pr. pipe 11333
G cond quality 4 D' tln in bottles, pr.dor. 4
Madder, bell pr. lb. 16 10 cu" 4 6
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 133 j67 ?, f'Y P r 'S a "- 9° 1,0
Mall spars ditto 3, 77 80
Molaflei pr.gall. 33 41 — , COURSE 0F EXCHANGE.
Mustard per. lb. g 7 On London, at 30 days, per £ ,ico llerl. 466 |
flour, in bottles, pr.doz, 1 20 at a Y s 463 5
N.i1.,8/lorf.isi. and!o<i. pi.lb. ic . „ , 11 9°o>y> 461 !
Vuttnegspr. lb. 0 8 Amfte rdani, 60 da ys,pr. guilder, 42
Oil, Linseed, pr. gall. " r ,3° 4°
Olive g. Government bills, drawn at 10 days
fight, at 42c per guilder.
of tf).e IfJttifefi States
AND
Saturday, January 18, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by
Thomas Dobfon,
Price three eighths of a Dollar,
" An Enquiry into the principles
and tendency of certain public
measures."
January 16. dtw
ADVERT I S E M E N T.
.\oill:nni;! i : (i
FOR SALE,
A Valuable Track of LAND,
in thia county, containing about eight
hunritea acie>, <>oe touith of which «s low
grounds, of excellent quality; the other three -
t' linhs is highrlahd, well covcicd wiiii oak,
hickory and chcfuui.
1 he situation is pleafan' and healthy, on Yeo
>€oinico river, about three inilis from the Poio
mack. There is on it a two llory brick dwel
ling-houfc, wiih four rooms and a on
each floor, exclusive of cl#fets j a good kuchcn,
and othei neceflary out-honfts It has orchards
of apple and p ach trees, and is )! watered
by many delightful springs. The te» n»* may be
known on application to the Honorable JOHN
HEATH, in Philadelphia, or to the fubienber,
living on the prrtnifes.
Jan. 10. dt-f
JOHN GORDON'.
N O R R I S - C O U R T,
Back of the New Library, b"twcai Chelhut
and Walnut-Streets
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friend-? and
tile public in general, that he continues
cat rating on THe bufinf fit of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or wi«Uu\v-feutters,done in the nioft
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
By M. CARE Y,
No. 118, MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuable colle&ion of£OOKS,
imported from London in the Mohawk.
Dct. 19.
Mr. Fenno,
The following article is No. of a Series
by the fame hand, on the Suljccl of the Sua
bility of the Individual States. The other
numbers I have not seen ; but the enclosed
appears to me to be written with great
fprightlinefs, ingenuity and energy—you will
therefore please to give it a place in your
Gazette. Tour's—A. B.
WHY should any man or body of men
be averse to knowing or acknowledging
exa&ly what they are ? Why will men
eternally mismanage their affairs by plan
ning their conduct for an artificial person
entirely different from their identical
selves ?—We can reason theoretically well
enough, that to know precisely our qua
lities, stations and relations, and to adapt
our policy to this foundation, 13 the pei
feftion of wifdem in that refpeft. And
one would suppose it is so clear that all
that is over and above the truth is falfe
as well as all that falls fliort of it, that we
could not think of exalting reality by fic
tion left we should commit an error 110 less
possibly fatal than the opposite extreme.
But it seems by our practice ?.» if a body
were not only all that it is, but all that it
aflumes—and not only all that it
but all that it ever was. The firft of these
reminds us of the natives of Pelew, and
Gulliver's horses, who were surprised to
fee Engfifhmen undress themfclvesbecaufe
they had no conception of their garments
being separate from their bodies : and the
last of George the 3d, who is king of
Trance, to be sure, because Henry 5, and
6, were so, and defender of the faith, be
cause Henry the Bth, wrote a book,
(which probably was a. very bad one)
against Luther.
Whatever is the Ration of the ftatcc, it
is that which the people of them all have
elected under the flrongtfl inducements
R T I S E R.
[Whole No. 490. j
and for the moll f:\lutary ends. AnddovH'
less they underload their interest ; foi*
whoever rememberl that day hnows; that
since the creation there never was the
time before, when a great and enlightened
people contemplated such an object, ft»
long, and with filth advantages. What
a pity to lose the genuine fruits of a no
ble experiment, by a paltry affectation !—s
To impede the course of nature by a
whimsical intetpofition !
But as perhaps in the opinion of foftie
I may not yet have a right to use what
they may please to call declamation ; [
will endeavor to proceed in the demon
(trative department f<} far as to display a
fetv of the advantages that would accrue
to the individual Itates from the 'pcrhw-
nence of suability. And the firft I will
mention is the unequivocal abolition of
co-ordinate fovereignfy. There will be
no pretence of sovereignty in the states
except internal legislation in those parti
culars not affected by the constitution, if
they are responsible at a fupericr tribunals
And there ought to be no such pretence,
for there is in nature no such thins-.—
Oct »S. 1793.
There ir, no sovereign, where there are
t<wo sovereigns ; for while action and re
action are equal, there is no prevalence,
no positive potver This monfler, co-or
dinate sovereignty, is the fad caput nor-*
tuum of a fyllem whose elements are no
more. Let it he inurned, and con
signed with valedidtory form to the'
tomb where paper money, regulated
prices, tender acts and committees of
ty are depolited. One tear (hall be indul
ged to those who innft play the force of
Duke and no Duke longer^—and then
farewell to puppet-shews !'orcv?r<
Thus will our eve« be opened to fee flu* 1
true position in the American Universe.
We (hall at length perceive that we are
not the centre of revolution ; but that v.e
ourselves revolve upon a Common centre
of connection and support. Another ray
of federal wisdom will conduit our vision to
a new exfoliation of the gonadal plan. We
Until (<re that the sources of peace, order,
wealth and happiness are cleared, remain
open, and are protected. We (hall per
ceive that the ftatcs are cflentiil subordi
nate eflaMifhments that probably mud
have been created, had they not already
exilted—and that they are preeifely the
fame that they would have been if their
erection had been polten'or to the federal
government and executed by its authority*
For new and old states are without distinc
tion—Such has been the will of the
people of the United States. We (hall
observe that the variety of habits In fa
large an extent of territory contra&cd un
der different charters required local legilla-*
tion so far as it might he tolerated confifc
tently with genera! confidence and union ;
and that theie cares were iuferior to the
occupations of the General
the States-—and such indeed as, from the
very materials of its corrpi (ition, it is un
qualified to judge of or suitably sees. They
will appear however 110 less effentia] in go
vernment than any others ; so far as do
mestic happiness is the •bj-A of it, and so
tar as the vvaflt of domtilic happiness
leaves a void for the insertion of foreign
ilk.
Nobody will dispute th«t every" duty of
one party i» the right cf the other ; but
I fufpeft there is a cert?ln fort of politi
cians who will be puzzled when I fay that
every duty is the of the party ou
ing it. Yet this is j;la-.n when we eonfi-'
der that all invafionsof propriety ait de
partiiree from perfeftfon, and so our verv
obligations oHpht to be dar to us as they
preserve that purity of principle which a
lone can perpetuate fcCLfty. One abufc
is " the fruitful parent of a thousand
more." But this part of policy in the
prefect cafe, will nro;n:V he received like
advice to a man to reform hitnfelf; that
is, it will be but half u»!,deritood,and :hat
rejtfted,
However, there are fume plainer doc
trines. It may £>" the vilbinous aim of
some men to perplex the fimplcft cirfc innature to obtain some pitiful private ends.
So, if thf people will countenance -the
cheat, the state policies may be rendered
intricate, unintelligible and eipenfive.—
And the confequtnee- of this lophilHca
tion will be the destruction of that re
fponiibility which ought to be forever at
tached to deputations of all kinds where
the nature of the thing to be done will
admit of it. Now I presume there is no
tranfaelion within the jurildittion of a
liatc but such as the immediate agent may
iaftly, and can eaiily explain ; and if so,
it is clear that we have the advantage a
bove any nation under heaven of a perpe
tual recurrence to firll principles for the
prefuvatio'n of moral redlitudc iu the bo
dy ot the people. This is auother inesti
mable fruit ot the federal government—
I'or it forms a lvftem of political education
iuperior to any that ever was conceived
before. Evil befal the paricide that
would pervert it!— But how would sua
bility benefit the fyilem ?—I answer, by
the dissolution of mystery, by a constrain
ed economy, and by a coi reft responsi
bility. I might fay more—lt.would of
itfelf afford a glorious exemplar of recipro
city and jujlice that would not only stamp
the character of all Americans, but I al
most we«p for joy to think that it would
convert the whole corrupted world.
Shame upon the mil-begotten policy
•hat begins with fraud! Shall we never
elcape from the bondage of abuses into
the liberty of moral reftitudc ? At least
let us turn calculators, and fee in which
way most money may be made..—For I
have a strong suspicion that it is better to
be a wealthy Dutch merchant than a poor
Spanish grandee or German prince. Now
if we will be sovereign, after yielding al
most all our resources, «xclulively to the
United States, why the plain effect ofit is
that no mas of a fano mind would ever
lead us a farthing. This maybe relented
by some of your diguity-deakrs; but I
cave f.ir no dignity that fhufHes. I fay
that if we will sovkreicn, we
MUST be »00R. But if we have the
jjood fer:fe to pledge our estates, as reason
and jutlice require, we may, on occalion,
laite a turn that would lave a nation ! And
it is not impofiible tliat that nation should
become our ov. a i —Here is dignity—this
is a glory that 1 know Mallachufetts would
claim. It is of luch powers that her very
good friends would deprive her.—And
for what ?—-Tor a feeptre of ft raw!
CONGRESS.
House of Representatives.
January 14,
Ir. commit!re of the whole, on the report of
tH* Secretary of State, relative to the com
mercial intercourse if this country, -with fo
reign nations.
Sketch of Mr. Madison's observations in
reply to Mr. Smith.
( Continued.)
MR. MADISON next took a view
of the fr.bjeft, as it intcieils our manu
facture*. On this tore the regulations
ftlug between Great Britain and this
country, are as unequal on the score of
navigation. We admit of her manufac
tures to twice the amount of produce (he
takes in return, and to quadruple the a
mount of what (he confumcs. Besides
what we receive from her, is after every
kind of prolitable labour has been heaped
upon it, and we return raw materials only
the food of her industry, What we fend
arc articles of firlt neceflity for the sup
port of life, or to give bread to her ma,
rufafturers. We receive articles by no
means of lirft neceflity, and (lie bciides,
brings us whatever (he pleases of the pro
ductions of other countries, and refufes
■to admit our principal (laple commodities,
in our own bottoms.
Upon this view of the bufnefi, our in
tercourse certaicly dries not Hand on the
footing we are entitled to. In looking
into documents before the committee, it
will be fyu nd, that out of the whole a
mountof manufa&ured articles, import
ed into this country, which is in round
numbers, 15,290,000 dollars, Great Bri
tain furni/hes 13,950,000. From France
whish country actually consumes more of
our produce, we reseived only to the a
mount ot 155,060- dollars, in the fame
period, that is in the year '89-90. Our
mtercourfe with the nations of Europe,
ivnk;st!'C us our trade, as cxpref
led ui the fiilluwinjj table.
With Spain,
Pi'i'turpl,
Ne:i,ds,
France, 2,630,387 do.
Great Britain, 5,922,012 againftus.
And if we compare her im)>orts, with
the portion of our produce which she con
sumes, the balance will then be between
9 and 10,000,000 against us. It might
by fame be fnid, that though the balance
id thus against us, in our interconrfe with
that country, yet we may derive as much
advantage from the intercourfc, as 'if the
fael was otherwise. This might happen
in some cafcs, but he could not admit the
pofiibility of its emitting in the intercourfc
between this country and Great Britain.
Other nations, however, view a bal
ance of trade against them as a real evil;
Great Britain, in particular, is careful to
prevent it; what then mull be the feelings
of a nation with whom we have friendly
relations, when they fee not only the bal
ance of trade, between them and us, so
much against them, but that what we get
from them in this way, flows in the fame
manner,- into the coffers of one of her
most jealous rivals, and inveterate ene-
111IC5.
As to the propriety of a discrimination
between nations having treaties with us,
and tliofe having none, the propriety of
the principle was admitted in some states,
before the ellabliflimcnt of the present
general government. It was fanftioned
by the lioufe, during their fittings in New-
York, though it failed in the Senate, as
he had before observed. But it is the
practice of nations to make such a discri
mination. It is necelfary to give a value
to treaties,
The gentleman up vefterday, seemed
to admit that it is not advantageous for a
nation todepend on only oneothcr nation in
trade, and yet, did not approve of making
any efforts to relieve ourselves, from that
litnation. There certainly are very serious
disadvantages in depending on one nation
only, for iupplies j we are thereby at the
mercy of the caprice of sovereigns, and of
other casualties. If the nation with which
we have an exclusive intercourse, fhouldbe
involved in pecuniary embarvaflhnents, or a
general bankruptcy, the uffeft will be felt
yus ; and that this may happen, is with
in tiie sphere of poflibility, indeed the ex
perience we have but lately had upon this
score, ought to make us wife. If the na
tion is involved in a war, or experiences
any great derangement, the effect, owing
to our dependence on them alone, for sup
plies, will reverberate upon us undoubted
ly, and we shall fuel part of her embarrafl*-
ments. At this moment indeed, we fuf
fer for want of the afiiftance of foreign
bottoms, for the transportation of our pro
duce. But there are besides, other more
serious evils, arising from this state of com
mercial dependence, the influence which
it produces on our public councils, and the
most alarming feature of this evil is, that
the more inconvenient it becomes by its
constant growth, the more obstacles it is
able to throw into the way of a necelfary
remedy.
SENECA,
rf the queflion is asked, what will be
the probable consequence of making an
attempt, for the vindication of our com
mercial interest ? Whether it will produce
retaliation ? He saw no probability that
the interest of Great-Britain willfu ffer her
to retaliate, and he believed, that the inter
course between the two countries, would
be interrupted no more than convenient to
our interest ; we have nothing to appre
hend on this score. If it is alked, what
would be the ifTue of a commercial conflict,
he could answer, and he believed he could
(hew, that if the bufmefs should '•all for
felf-denial, we (hould go through it with
more advantage, and might count in the
issue, upon a complete triumph. The ef
fect of such a system, would be felt in
Great Britain, in the (hipping bu&ncfs,
the merchant would feel it, but above all,
the manufacturer. There is a paper in
Anderfon's history of commerce, which
rates the amount of the value of Britilh
manufactures annually, at £ 51,310,000
ftcrl. They are supposed to employ,
5,250,000 fouls; this gives £ 10, to a
f°ul._ Supposing Great-Britain to export
to this country; two &I -2 millions of fter-
ling pounds, of her manufactures, then we
must employ 250,000 of her hands. To
this we may add, 50,000 probably em
ployed upon the raw materials, which we
fend them, and then we may compute that
300,000 of her mannfadurers arc employ.
2,670,797 dolls, in our
fatour
267,699 do.
791,111 do,
He recollected, he laid, a petition pre
sented, not many years ago to the Prince
of Wales by 15,000 buckle manufactur
ers, that stated, that their fublillence de
pended on his wearing buckles instead of
ft rings, as he was acknowledged the king
of falhions. It was not the Prince that
petitioned them to go on making buckles.
The fame would be the cafe between this
country and Great-Britain, they would
soon petition us for employment.
Suppose that Great-Britain obtained
here all her necefTaries and that this was
her only market for her supplies, then the
dependence would be complete and we
ir.ight impose what terms we chose. This
is to be sure not the cafe ; but in propor
tion as we Hand in those relations, is her
dependence upon us. The Weft-Indies
are almost completely dependent, we are
the best market fcr their productions and
almost the only market where they can
obtain the iieceflaries of life. We give
them provisions, lumber, flour &c. and on
our part sugar is perhaps the only article
that may be considered as wanted from
them, and he was well informed, that not
more than 1-6 of this article consumed in
the United States comes from the Englilh
dominions. Theirdependence is still strong
er on us in cafe of war or famine, it is
sometimes such as to appeal to our huma
nity as well as policy for a supply, and
yet the gentleman from South-Carolina
considers it as a favor conferred upon us
that our produce should be admitted there
to the excluiio'n of that of other countries,
a nominal exclusion 'only.
For his part he viewed the subjeCt very
differently ; though we thus exchange ne
cessaries of life for luxuries, the gentleman
thinks it is nothing that the whole carry
ing trade Ihould be taken from us. His
sentiments put into the mouth of a Well-
Indian would be this; " I will agree not
to ftarvs myfelf, but to take your produce,
fend yon in return our rum you can do
without, but then I must have all the ad
vantage of the carrying trade."
He made some observations on the man
ner in which the revenue may be affeCted
by the resolutions. From the revenue fyf
tcm of Great Britain, a tax of 40s. per
poll is borne by the subjeCts of that coun
try, while not more than 6s is laid here.
Here the price of labor is double, and
there the weight of our taxes is not more
than 1-13 as great as in England. This
is not exactly true, however; though they
nominally bear this burden yet it i 6 some
what less as they draw from their East-In
dia and Weft-India poffeflions, and in the
course of trade from all nations who have
not «ommercial regulations with them.
However, all dedu&iori made the resour
ces of Great Britain are certainly more
ft -ained than ours.
They have great arrearages of unfund
ed debt and are engaged in a war which is
earned on by accumulating taxes forpofte
rity. Their population it ilationary. From
all these conliderations, this country is
surely bed calculated to bear the Ihock of
a stagnation in commerce. He went thro*
a calculation to (hew, tlrat the advantage
derived from a system of regulations fisch
as these propoi'ed, would be fuctra» to
do more than counter-balance any dimi
nution of the prefcut revenue.
*Ed to supply us. ~lf these were suddenly
thrown out of employ, it is impossible tq
lay, what a complication of diftrefles they
would labor under. In this situation, the
United States would be considered as a
natural asylum from wretchedness; and
whether they remained in discontent in
theii own country, or fought their fortune
in another, the foil would be coniidertd
and felt by the Britilh government, as
equally great, and they would surely be
ware of taking any step that might pro
voke it.
A country situated as this is, in such a
conflict would have vail advantages over
a populous and manufacturing' country.
Our country produces the nccefl'aries of
life within itfelf, and other countries, who
do not produce them in fufficicut abun
dance are dependent on us to supply their
wants. Again the manufacture! of that
country depends on us for a sale of his
merchandize whichis to procure him bread.
Here is a double dependence of Great-
Britain on the United States. They are
dependent for what they consume of our
produce and dependent for what we chufe
to confumeofher manufactures. The arti
cles we supply are the neceflaries of life to
the manufacturer, and what he fends in
return we can dispense with, without fa
enficing a comfort or even a reasonable
fancy.
It may be thoughl by fume, that Come
of the nations of Europe, wit!) whom we
have no treaty and yet have a valuable
commerce (hould be excepted out of the
effett of these regulations, he meant Spain
He admitted this might
and Portugal.
have forae weight, but an inconvenience
of this kind fliould not surely prevent our
taking measures elTential to our national
dignity and prosperity.
A coniideration of the fubjett would
much diminilh the force of the objection.
The manuiadVires we import from Spain
and Portugal are very trifling, and as to
tonnage, the fir It enjoys only one fixteer.th
and the other one lsventeenth of the ton
nage employed in our commercial inter
course with them. Bclides neither ap
pears particularly anxious to extend her
navigation. Their policy is to admit other
nations to enjoy the carrying trade in the
commerce with them, and to secure. to
themselves this trade in all intercourse with
their dependencies. However, if it still
(hould be thought that they (hould be ex
cluded from the operation of the propoled
regulations, he had no objection j,o con
fine it expressly to those nations who have
navigation laws, or they may be excluded
by confining it to the countries north of
Cape Finilter, a very common dilliniSiori.
The gentleman from South-Carolina
appeared well falisfied that in our inter-
ccurfe with Gre* Britain we are as well
treated as other nations. This did pot
fatisfv hina, he owned. If other nations
are willing to bear impositions or were un
able to retaliate, he hoped that is not an
example we are to follow.
But is it true that the fame system of
equality subsists between us and Great Bri
tain, as between that and other European
nations ? He believed not. Before the
war France had established legal regulations
to reciprocate those of Great Britain unfa
vorable to her. He believed Sweden and.
Denmark both exclude, if not altogether
at leait a great portion of the Britifli ma
nufactures. From this it appears that
other nations by tkeir acts have placed
their intercourse with Great Britain up.
on a basis more reciprocal than that esta
blished in our intercourse with her.
It has also been aflerted that Great
Britain treats us as well as other nations
treat us. What nation, he asked, hat
such a navigation ad ? What nation be-
fides excludes us from a circuitous trade *
W hat nation excludes us to such an ex- -
tent from carrying our commodities iu
our own bottoms ?
On the fubjeft of the different disposi
tions of Fiance and England towards us,
the gentleman from South Carolina ap
pears to think very differently from the
President. The President in his mefTage
expressly tells the legislature, that the
former has uniformly fhewa a good difpo
lition towards us and has granted as ma
ny commercial advantages, while his si
lence as to the latter fufficiently shews
that this cannot be said of her policy to
wards us.
But he wished from fa&s to {hew that
our intercourse with the two nations is on
a very different footing, for this purpose
he had also drawn up a small table. He
wished, however to premise, that he could
not agree with the gentleman from South
Carolina on the propriety of recurring
for documents to a period antecedent to
the French revolution.
He (Mr. S.) remarked, that since that
period the order of things has been un
settled ; and therefore the Secretary of
State has taken up the subject in this
view—Mr. Madifcn said, he hoped, for
his part that the present is the fettled or
der of tilings, he hoped and believed that
the revolution is not a fugitive thing and
that it is the old order of things that is
now unsettled for ever. He should not,
however, he said, exclude from his cal
culations what was done under the 'mo
narchy in our favor, because it is not rea
sonable to suppose that the disposition of
that nation towards us could be less favor
able to us now, than when under the for
mer govern meut.
(To It concluded in our next..)
STOLEN,
A few days agi., from No. 6, Latitis Court.
A Silver Table-Spoon,
Marked 1. C maker's name 11. H. W o\ er
leturui (a.cl Spoon to the outer, Ihall re,cci«e
One D iilar ic ♦ .id, and no qy.eii.uus i lktd.
N. 15. Silveri'iniths and other* are vequeficd
to ftup (aid spoon, it'oil'ered lor ;aie, and wive
iiocice as above.
Jill. 17.UNITED STATES.
NEW-YORK, Jan. 16.
Capt. Dodge, of the ftip Aftrea.who
arrived in th;s port lail evening froia Of
tend in 47 days, informs, that lince the
raising of the siege of Nieuport, nothing
«>f conference had happened between the
Fiench and Combined Armies at the time
he left Oftend. It was given out, that
theEnglilh and Dutch troops were imme
diately to go into winter quarters, and the
Auftrians were to keep the field.
The brig Minerva of this port, was bil
ged in heaving down, and is likely to be
condemned.
The brig Neptune, M'Namara, of this
port, loft her rudder, and put into Often J
"the Ift of Nov. B. 6\'=.
Extradt of a letter, received lalt Satur-
day, by a gentleman in this city, dat
ed Dublin, Oft. 29.
" Ap express to the Lord Lieutenant,
brings intelligence, that the Prince de Co
bourg had funounded and beaten the
French army, by which the latter loft
40,000 men. The Auftrians having pal
led the river Sambre, forced all their
work;. The glory of the day, was in
fume degree, owing to a fuccefsful feint
of the Prince de Cobourg's failing back,
by which he cninatcd and turned the left
flanks of the French line."
ixirat! of a letter from on board his Majeflfs
JLif Courageux, dated off Sardinia.
" Mi nfleur St. "Julian, late commander
of, the French fleet at Toulon, after proceed
ing for MarfiUcs, returned in disguise,
out entering that city, and fearing equally
from the refetjtment of the Tmdonefe and the
National Convention, he came to the deter
mnatiin of trufling to the clemency of Lord
Hood, and actually got on board the Victory,
andfurrendercd hirnfef to the Britifb Admi
ral, who with that clemency that ever accom
panies a Britifb officer, put him on board a
frigate def.'wedfor Barcelona, in order com
pletely to put him out of the reach of any re
fenlment his ebuntryinen might entertain a
gainjl him"
Lisbon, 03. 29.
The captains of the American vessels st
Lisbon, defiruyi to make an acknowledg
ment to their friend and fellow-citizen Ed
waid Church, Consul of the United States
at this pgrt, for the very eminent and hap
py services he has rendered to them in ob
taining a convoy from her Majesty of Por
tugal, gave him an elegant entertainment
at the principal hotel in this city : After
dinner the following toafls were drank :
1. The C)ueen and Ro\al Family cf
Portugal.
2. The lar.d we reside in,
3. The United States of America,
4. George Washington, may his fuc
ceflors in office imitate his virtues, and
aim to be as ufeful to their country.
5. Thomas Jeffcrlon, and all the true
friends to the rights of man throughout
the globe.
6. Our true friends and allies, may fuc
yefs, unity, peace, liberty, and prosperity,
Speedily crown their glorious struggles.
7. Fidelity and competent abilities, to
all the servants of the people.
8. May the flame of American Liberty
never be extir.guifhed by British engines.
9. May the citizens of the United
States never acknowledge any god or king
of man's making.
10. St. Tammany ; may he always
(land firft in the lift of American tutelary
Saints.
i I. May the towering Eagle of Ame
rica disdain to {loop to be tied by ribbands,
or to button-holes.
12. Freedom to the Press, and Inde
pendence to the Printers.
13 The Fair of America; may they
honor merit, and merit honor.
14- May no Crown ever be valued a
bove five (hillings in America.
15. May the profeffed enemies of Afri
can Slavtry never fell themselves.
FRENCH CALENDAR.
Humanity is not more shocked at the
Gothic baibarities of the French, than
religion at their impiety,, The divine
law, ordaining a Sabbath once in seven
days, is violated by the National Conven
tion, who have decreed, that a week {hall
conlift of ten davs, and cverv tenth day
be appropriated to reft and to the Celebra
tion of the revolution. God Almighty
.has said, Six days Jbalt thou labor and do
all thy work ; the Convention fay nine
dar6 (halt thou Libor and do all thy work.
Query, how will poor laborer* like tUc
alteration ? The divine iriftitution of the
Sabbath, allows fifty-two days in the yeai
for repole ; the French, mighty zealous
friends of the poor, decree that they lhall
be allowtd only thirty-fix days in the year
for reft !—lf however the bodies of man
and beast can fultain this additional la
bor, it will be no fmail faring of time.
There are at least eight Trillions of laborers
in France, whefe labor is worth twenty
cents a day—sixteen days labor in a year
amounts to three dollars and twenty cents,
which each laborer will earn in a year,
more than he did under the divine esta
blishment. This sum multiplied by eight
millions, gives a produ& of twenty-five
millions iix hundred thousand dollars, the
annual extra earnings under the new insti
tution. This is no trifling sum ; indeed
fucn an extra sum will be wanted to re
pair the loss of Lyons, and other towns
vyantonly burnt by order of the Conven
tion or the Generals of their armies.
Died at the iiland of Curracoa, the
14th of Dec. last, Dr. Paul Micheau.who
failed from this city in October, with a
view of fettling there as a Physician and
Surgeon.
BOSTON, January 8,
Yesterday arrived in this town, Capt.
Benj. Calley. who on the ioth of Oft.
last, was taken in the schooner Two Bro
thers, of Newbury port, by the privateer
Pallas, of Jamaica : and who on the 22d
of the fame month, whilst in the posses
sion of the said privateer, was call away
on Auckland's Keys, where the vessel and
cargo, which was very valuable, and con
lifted of cotton and coffee, were entirely
L-ft, as were two of the crew. After ex
periencing this disaster, Capt. Calley took
pafTage for Jamaica, where he entered his
prated against the said privateer. Capt.
Calley informs, that the most disagreeable
proceedings mark the conduct of the Ja
maica privateers, who frequently destroy
the papers of the American vessels they
capture, and thereby deprive the comman
ders of the evidence necessary to prove
their being American bottoms, and load
ed with American property—that several
vessels and cargoes which he believed to
have been American, have been condem
ned ; and that those libelled at the time
be left Kingflon, which was on the 19th
Dec. were under the disagreeable necessity
of being detained there, until March next
—until then no admiralty court fits. When
Capt. Calley left Jamaica, the following,
among other vessels,' wqre detained there,
viz. brig Beaver, Capt. Peirce, cf New
buryport, brig Nancy, Capt. Clements,
of Portland—schooner Malahey, Captain
Wadfworth cf Duxbury—brig Dolphin,
Captain Bradbury, of Kennebunk. " All
the cargoes of which, were libelled—and
that of the beaver condemned.
We understand, that Captain Calley in
tends again to enter his protest against the
above spoliation ; and it is hoped, that
fach spirited measures will be pursued by
the government of the United States as
will, besides restoring to him, and his own
ers, the property they have loft, prevent
similar vexations from being praftifcd.
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY iS.
The National Convention, after having
heard the report of the Committee of Pub
lic Safety, decrees as follows :
Government.
Art. I. The Provisional Government of
France is revolutionary, until peace.
11. The Provisional Executive Council,
the Ministers, the Generals, the Ccnftituted
Bodies, are placed under the fuperiutend
ance of the Committee of Public Safety,
which (hall render an account of their pro
ceedings once in eight days, to the Con
vention.
111. Every mtafure of fafety is to be
taken by the Proviiional Executive Coun
cil, under the fanftion of the committee,
which (hall render an account thereof to
the Convention.
IV. The revolutionary laws mufl be
speedily executed ; the government (hall
correspond immediately with the diitricts,
as to the measure* us public fafetv.
V. The Generals in chief (hall be up
pointed by the National Convention, on
the presentation of the Committee of Pub
lic Safety.
VI. The tardinefi or government being
the eaufe of the mifcarrisge of operation*.
the term for the execution of the lawi aivl
of the meal'iire. of pubiic fafcty (h.tll be
fixed. The trat>fgreffion of tlic hxeil
tt-'rm, fha]l be pumfhed a: an attempt against
liberty.
Subsistance
VJI. The itateinent of the produc
tions in corn of each district, made to the
committee of public fafety, (hall be print
ed and distributed to all the members of
th? Convention, to be put into execution
without delav.
VIII. The provisions for
each department, {hall be eltimated by ap
proximation, and guaranteed. The sup
plies fnall be fubjedt to requisition (,?/ the
disposal of government.)
IX. The statement of the produ&ions
of the Republic (hall be laid before the
Reprefcntatives of the people, before the
miniftcrs of marine and home departments,
and before the administrators of iubn-t&nce.
They (hall make demands in the different
divisions refpc&ively afligned to them.
Paris (hall forma diltinct division.
X. The demands in tavor of the barren
departments, lhall be authorized and regu
lated by the provlfional executive council.
XI. Paris lhall on the ill of March be
fupphed with one year's provisions.
General Safety
XT I. The dire£tion and employment
of the revolutionary army lhall be regu
lated without delay, in such a manner as
to check the progress of the counter-revo
lutioniils. The committee of public fafe
ty thall present a plan for this purpose.
Finances
XIV. There lhall be created a tribunal
and a jury of refponlibility. This tribu
nal and this jury thall be appointed by the
National Convention ; their office (hall be
to prolecute all those who have had the
management of the public monies since the
revolution, and to demand of them an ac
count of their private fortune. The or
ganization of this tribunal is referred to the
committee of legislation.
That an American citizen has a right
to leave the United States and go where
he plesfcs, in a peaceable manner, unarm
ed, and without hostile intentions, no one
will dispute. Bvrt that any citizen may
.aim himfelf or enlifi; others aud arm them,
with a vieiv to commit hostilities on a na
tion with whom we are at peace, is a doc
trine highly dangerous to the government
and to the peace and prosperity of this
country. Such a doflrine would lead us
into endless confufion, and perpetual war.
Yet this doctrine is preached and strongly
inculcated by certain anti-patriotic peo
ple, called democrats, who pretend every
one has the privilege of doing what is
right in his own eyes ; that town meeting's
and evening clubs are the great fafe guards
of our liberties, and that patriotism con
lifts in condemning government, and flnd
rng out a world of evils and dangers, which
no man feels nor has reason to fear.
From all fucli dangerous do&rines, and
all restless hypocritical patriots, who would
overthrow the government that protefta
them—Good Lord deliver us.
Afhterva.]
From the General Advertiser.
Great pains are taken in an everitig paper
to cry down all popular affocialions, and to
propagate an opinion that government can do
no wrong, or that the people have \o right
to "watch over the conduit of their frvavts,
and prevent their doing wrong. If indivi
duals have a right to express their (ip'tuwns
on the fubjeS of public measures, tbfe indivi
duals havefurely that right collectively, an d
the exercise of it is necessary at this moment,
■when public officers, not content -with their
individual influence, club it to carry points
which individually they laould not dire to
advocate.
ECHO.
" Club it to carry points, &c."
*
Married, at Baltimore, Mr. William
Mefl'erftnith, merchant, of that town, to
Miss Frances Cromwell, of Baltimore
County. i
Died, in the 64th year of his age, Mr.
James Franklin, of Baltimore County.
In Boston, Thomas Wooldridgr, Esq.
Etat. 54, late an alderiran of the city of
London.
Mrs. .Rebecca Holbrook, relitt of Mr.
Abiah Holbrook, formerly mailer of the
South Writing School, in that to-.vn.
By this day's Mail.
NEW-YOK.K, Januaiy 16.
L*it evening arrived irt this p >rt, the
(hip A'l.ea, Capt. Dodge, from liicitH,
arid 47 days from Oltend.—From the re
cent departure of this vcflel from Oftend,
and the precarious Jit;ution of thct rhi. L"
11 om the lall accounts, one mull fu],jot.
tliat this veiTel would have b'een tilt iui
biuger of important news ; but from ig
norance or obstinacy, the application of
several gentlemen to obtain information >
had been ineffectual when this paper wei.t
to prtfs— except, some one on board be
lieved that Oftend and Nieuport were cot
taken. Col. Cox.
January 17,
COMMUNICATIONS.
By the ship Allrea, Captain Dodge, in
74 days from Ofiend, we* are informed,
That the Duke of York, had ordered the
several regiments, lately landed at that
port, to embark, and join other corps tit
Portsmouth, to proceed for their original
deitination against Martinique, Guaaa
loupe, &c. under the command of Jieute
nant general Sir Charles Grey, convoyed
by the. fleet of admiral Sir John Jervis.
Thus <wing'd by Rumor's double tongue,
SuceeJJtve falfehoods Jly along.—
Express difpatcbed from Citizen Genet
at Philadelphia, to Citizen Hauterive.
The Puke of York, is taken with his
whole army : Toulon is re-taken with e
very (hip which were in the port and har
bour. All this, my dear fellow-citizen,
has been announced to the CongreG, not
officially, but as certain ; the Congress
could not stay in their fitting. The whole
people in Philadelphia are in the grcateft
joy ; and compliments and falutatiom art*
cuming to m<! from every past. It ap
pears to be certain that this-news was l»ro't
in by the vefTel sent to France by the Pre
sident. Let all our friends know this news
—and let us all cry out together, Vive la
Republique.
Signed, GENET.
Haui-erivs, Confui.
Copy,
For the Gjz stye of the Un/tid Stjtiu
Stockholders,
The men who make us boou and (hce»,
Our patience conllantly abuse ;
Keep our feet bare in dirty weather,
And give us paper '(lead of leather ;
What (hall be done in lucjl a cafe ?
Why keep the culprits out of place.
Eut as the conftitution'a plan,
Gives equal rights to every man—
Then let it speedily be mended,
And one grand effort will be ended ;
Proscriptions ihall come on of couife,
And many a beggar mount a horse.
Change faces to f.ocis, a fait appeal's
Which well may tingle freemen's ears.
With rapid ltrides we polt away
To the dark glooms of gothic sway,
"When crimes ihall be coir.pos'd of riches
And men of wealth be forj of b s.
/ A candid Contralt.
When J y fpeaks—lhould chance let
fell a pin,
The noise would mar the stillness of the
scene;—
But when oppcfmg eloquence we hear,
Blest be the head that's lioi 11 without an
ear!
Arrived at New-York.
Ships, Nancy, Cunningham, Liverpool;
Mary, Cafhedy, Londonderry; Nancv,
Sutler, Cadi*.
Brig lnduitry, Lowert, New-Orleans.
Schooner Woolwich, Limpon, Cork.
The Alg. *rinc fleet coalitl of 4 frigates,
3 xebecks aiiti 2 brigs.
(E> The Subscribers to " the Penn
sylvania Socicty for the encouragement
of Manufactures and the ufeful Art*,"
are hereby notified, that an Election fur
Officers Hi serve during flic prefenl ycur,
will be he!<i at the Ditpenia; y in Chtint:t.
street, 011 Monday the 29th of January,
at 4 o'clock, V. M.
T. M. WILLING, Sec'ry.
7 bit day it pulijbid,
THE
United States Register,
For the Year 1794.
PfW«! by Slcwarl and C.ictirin, No. «
South Secoad-[)rcci,aod John M'CwMoch, No"i
North Thiid-ftmt. «.d t* be f»)d b> ibcm »ui
the booKfcllcis.
JMI. 18. • 44Parry and Mufgrave,
J
Goldfmitbs Isf Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
have for sale,
An elegant AJfortment of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY &/w CUTLERY,
will •
►Vhich
|Vr.a!>ic tv» iss. D- '.ec:. mi i.u.i, .'.alines
(I U, -ti.fli'vc v t'nin tht g«'Vi •' l ' ihvc -
w . d->. C n ■ ual
Dec-e.-.:bf 24.
Tms '» fut-ii/l-
Bv MATHEW CAREY,
N:>. ii 8 .\IA KF 1-S.T I t- I ,
( Price a quarter dollar)
A short account of ALGIERS,
t .. 4", ..•< ,
f IV • •••..ri 5 r-iIH ;• i tlol'.is ' • ' i"' »'
Hhi -rt> ail'! ' ' •!n"i <>v »«•.' -.<l3 nit
ij. i HolUii
I(|\\ ( Iu • :M- ,' t "ni tilt I! IU) \IM (-no I IJ.II-
.it n".r. *''(■ in l . li'Mi ih.t L:ir cini Ci<
|lw o i>t ; n >V -MJit' '.Kivv.tn AI.GItHS
I'XITF.D STATUS.
Excellent CLARET,
i . 11: *i ■.>: .\j {>r>[[ u-> , h,
In l.<
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
lh .nK! qiMr'c crtfk*,
In pip'"-->
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. m, S-ucu l'r.mt iucer.
Jan. 1 -94.
ALL persons having any de
_ ma.. I. .f ) "ft *He lta. t f :OR OF.
i b?ktr,
\V : v !•-. I
Ato l-i : ii« in ■ r»*- ■;• ■>n. ■. -roper i v
,i«n; .-ii'ltn-ir nnlis cil, arc
at • ' <" U
. nnnici'.ate payment.
HINRY KfcKS, Ad in m (Ira tor.
ecwqw
dciutd to »i>ak
'3-
Insurance Company,
|*| o 'ill!" (.'HH ;, mv
America, that the Doeflor*
d vidend ('
CFN ", mi •!•<? a!Vi<;i. it ti \.;f !>rr ; t <J
■and of ore p* >"
'i-wl in antic-pa fi<m tit" third
On ■'>.
iult ulrnc
t!:
tii'r i'< -'tii t'-f f\< ft d.!v of
,inv. Nch :■.■ fc Tiiv
fl < i.'!fd w\'.\ be p.;id
month t
ITIC"' " \ C 1^
to the Stockholder
ir repreientatives,
at tlie companv's pilic, N«>. ! >9 iouch Front
ftrict, at any t'"ur after t f»e 13th wiftant.
B> • der of e Divftoi s.
■ :ZER HAZARD, Secretary.
w&f.nn.
la l. 4
Robert Campbell,
Mo. 54, South Secind-flrecty
Seconddoor Ivlowthe corner of Chefnnt-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late at rivals from Britain and Ireland,
A larre anJgeneral Assortment of
New Books and Stationary,
\VV;r ! i will be diipofed of on the lowcft terms.
D-c. 23. mwScftf
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1 794.
NOTICE is hereby g VCH, that there will
be paid at the Back, after the sixteenth
instant, to the Srockho'ders or their repvefen
tatires. d ily authorized si teen dollars and
fifty ceotk for each snare, being the d.vidend
declared for the lad fix months.
By O. der,
JOHN KEAN. Calh er.
Treasury Department,
TV TOl ICE hereby piven, that proposals will
l\ be received at the Office of the Secretary
ot the Tieafurv, until the 6'h of Ftbfuary next
inclufire, for the supply of all Rations which
may be tequired during th< preftnlycar, at the
fcvrral of rendezvous hereafter mention
ed, lor the Recruiting Service, viz
iJ'unfwick, in New-Jcrfcy;
At Nev*-
At Pnilao Ipnra, )
At I.Tnc:iftct f > in Ftnnfylvania.
At R«*alm>7, ;
Th' rations to be furnifhed are to coofiQ ps the
following articlrs, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
Ouc pound of heel, or £ of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of rum, brandy or wlufky,
Out* quart of fall ")
Two quarts of vincgai (
n . • ir > per tooration.^
I wo poundi ol l«»ap ( 1
On. pound of randies)
] >n. q,
MONtY borrowed or lamrd, accounts da
ted or collrfted, employer* suited with
domestics, Kouf«* room*, boarding and lodging
tenirtl, let or procured — soldier's, mariner's,
©r militia men's pav, lands and claims on the
public ; ffcares 111 the banks, in the canals, and
the turnpike road ; certificates granted by the
pwhltc, and <bf old and lite paoer monies ;
notes of hand, bills, bonds and morp.ages, with
«r without dej»o-ji»—Bought, fold, or rego
ciaird at No. ft, in south Sixth-Arret, below
Market-ft rrt bv FRANCIS WHITE,
Who tranft&s bufwefs in the puMic offices for
country people and others, by virtueot*a pow
er of attorney, or by personal application.
December 1i
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Street, adjoining the Episcopal burying,
giouncl,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thank? to his former employers,
and requeuing their future favors, as well as
t!io!'c ot the public in general.
Fie continues to make and repair at the
(ho> tell notice, all kinds of plcafure carriages,
Inch as cosche , chariots, phsetons with and
without ciaive necks, coachces, chaises, kitte
reens, wit dl'or fulkeys and chaiis, a:id harness
of every dele: ip; ion, in the reatctt and new eft
[fafhion now prevailing in the United Stares.
And as he I as a quantity of the best leafoned
wood >y him, and capital workmen, he has
not the ieait dou'-t but he will be able to give
fai l ■; faction to tho e who pk-afe to employ him.
tt. wfcftf
He has for sale, several carriages almost
fini/hed, such as ceachces, an Italian wind lor
y iani'; "ii Itccl i",)i in, a in',' t pi:a'toii for
one o» t.vo horle*., ai.d a w»rh a falling
C " P ' .
Carriages fold on Commimon
Philadelphia, Jan. 6. i?9-T ir.&rt3ni
Venice, and othfi
ALL perions having any demand agauifi
1 the Eitate and Effects of Mi s. MARY
SI.x'D.IEY, widow, late of Frankford, Ox
ford t >w nfhip, in the State of Pennsylvania,
rieceafed; are defned to produce their ac-
counts tu Jacob Lesher and Willi am Creed,
(in Frailkford, afore fa id)) Executors and Ad
ini tiftrators of* the above in 01 tier for fettle-
fViul whoever i-> indebted to said Ef
tatl-, ott. are requefteri to make payment to
the aforefaid Adiiiiniiirators, on or before the
16th of March, 1794, or they will be dealt
with accoi'din£_|o law.
nicui
Frankiord, Dec. 16.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, WalUft»cct, New-York.
THE Suufcribcr intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
SI OC'KS on COMMISSION, b<gs leave to of
t:r his fcrviccsto Ins iiiencU and others, in the
line ola Siock Broker. Thole who may please
to favor hun with their bufiuefs, may depend
upon hairing it tranfa&cd with the uunofl fvic-
Iti)' a:>d ciiipiich.
<">i(u-rs i'oi'i Philadelphia, Boston, or any
y-m of ih- United Si»»?«, will he ftriftly
<ut«rided to.
6, i n ..4-
Encyclopedia, Vol. X,
Nt>» r!v
drcJ.i i f a
oi' MX j> r R
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
B )oki'eikr, at the Stone Htfufe, in Second-
r~co«d
imi.th
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Of A ts, Sciences, and Mifcelianeous
Literature, on a Pkvn entirely new ;
THIS volume contains principles of Levels,
Liberty, D >&rine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, Hiflory of Lon
don, Longitude. Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illuilrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number ol families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known wRo
arereturned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the fubfenbers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poflible.
The volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
it* appcarance in an imporfeft state, some ac
count of the icafon of that imperfe&ion ihould
be niven. On the Bth of September last, the
Publiftier had the misfortune of having his
Printing-Office burnt down by a fire which
broke oat in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the figures, with
which he was printing the tables of lo
garithms, belonging to the prelent vo'ume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, he was Under the neceflity of pub
lifhing the volume without the e tables; but
hopes he shall be able to publifti with the
next volume which is now in considerable for
wardneft.
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
exprefling his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to r uch of the fiibfcribers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necefllty of
punctuality, both in taking up ihe volumes as
early as poflible after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the fiib
fcribers having got only one, two, three, I;c.
volumes, and several volumes remain unpaid*
Thus the work hangs in all its ditfereotjjages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles \wpaid lays the Publisher under
very ferions emharraflment, and deprives him
of the use of many Thousands of Dollars which
at this time would be of very eflential fervict.
For these reasons the Publilher finds him felt'
under the neceflftr of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those whu
take and pay to the time of publication,
Dcccmbtr to.
tawt6F.
LEONARD IiLi.ECKER.
flroet- Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
BY WHICH
The D ; lfcrciit Sciences and Arts,
are digrjied into the form of
Distinct Treaties or Syitems :
A New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by
R. A IT KEN,
No. 22, MarketJtreet,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philadelphia, for promoting Ufeful
Knowledge, Vol. 3' Price %of in boards
$3" The fublcribers are requeued to call
as above directed for the 3d vol. where may
be had, complete setts uniformly priuted.
Contents of Vol. "sd.
1. An essay 011 those enquiries in Natural Phi
losophy, which at pre lent are most bcneCci
al to the United States of North America.
Dr. Nicholas Collin,
2. Conje&ures concerning the formation of
the earth, &c. Dr. B. Franklin,
3. A new and curious theory of Light ai)d
Heat. Dr. B. Franklin.
4. Defcript'on of the process to be oblerved
iu making large lheetsof paper in the Chi
nese manner, with one smooth furface.
Dr. B. Franklin.
\5. Queries and cpnjeftures relative to Mag
netism, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
6. Explanation of a fmgular phenomenon, firft
obfiervedbyDr Franklin, and not fatisfac
torily accour.tcd for. Mr. R. V alter Jon.
7. An account of an Earthy Substance found
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls; together with
some remarks on the Falls.
Robert M l CavJfin) M. D.
8. Obfervat'ons on the probabilities of the
duration of Human Life, and the progress
of population, in the United States of Ame
rica. William Bartohy Esq.
9. A letter containing observations made at
Lake Erie, on that lingular phenomenon,
by seamen termed looming.
Andrew Ellicet EJq.
10. An Account of the Sugar Maple-Tree
of the United States, and of the methods
of obtaining Sugar from it, together with
observations upon the advantagesboth pub
lic and private of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rujk, M.D.
ti. Memoir on the use of the Thermometer
in discovering Banks, Soundings, .
"Jonathan Williams, Esq.
12. An Account of the most effectual means
of preventing the deleterious conlequebces
of the bite of the Orotalus Horridm, or Rat
tle Snake. Benjamin Smith Barton, Ai, D.
ig. Magnetic Observations, made at the Uni
versity of Cambridge, (Mafl'achufetts.J
Dr. S. Willia.ns,
14. Accurate determination of the right as
cension and declination of Bootes, and the
Pole Star. Andrew ElJicott y Esq.
15. Account of several Houses in Philadelphia,
struck with Lightning, on June 7th, 1789.
David Rittenhoufe, Esq.
16. An Account of the efforts of a itroke of
Lightning on a Houle furnilhed with two
Conductors. David Rittcnhoufc } and Francis
Mopkinfon, Efqrs.
17. Experiments and Observations on Evapo
ration in cold Air. C. M. D.
18. Postscript to Mr. Barton's Letter, to
Dr. Rittenlioufe, of the 17, of March, 1791.
19. New Notation ot Music.
t&ftf:
Mr. R. Palter Jon.
20. Observations on tbe Theory of Water
Mills, &c. W. Waring.
19. Agronomical Observations.
David Rittcnfoufe.
20. A letter relative to a method of finding
the sum of the several powers of the Sines,
&c. David Riltcnhwfa Esq.
21. Index Florae Laucaltrienfis.
Henrico-Mvhlaibetg, JD. /).
22. Jnveftication of the power of X>r. Bar
ker's -Miil, as improved by James Rumley,
with a description of the mill. IV. Waring.
23. A Thermometries Journal of the tem
perature of the Atmosphere and Sea, on a
voyage to and from Oporto, with explana
tory observations thereon.
"Jonathan Williams, Ejq.
24. First memoir of observations on the plants
denominated Cryptogamick.
M. De bcauvois.
2-5. A letter, containing observations on the
ancient works of Art, the Native Inhabi
tants, &c. of the Western Country.
Major Jonathan Heart.
26. An account of some of the principal dies
employed by the North American Indians.
Extracted by the late Ak Hugh Martin,
27. An account of the beneficial effects of the
Cassia Chamaecrifta in recru;tirig worn-out
lands, and in enriching such as are natural
ly poor ; together with a botanical descrip
tion of the plant.
Crtenuity of Virginia.
28. An account of a hill on tlie border?: of
North Carolina, ftippo/ed to have been a
volcano, in a letter from a Continental of
ficer, to Dr. 7. Virginia.
20. An Accountof a poitonout plant, grow
ing spontaneously in the southern part of
Virginia. Extra&ed from a paper by
Dr. jamr.s Or tentrtfv, Vbginte.
30. Description of a Machine for measuring a
(hip's way. Frcttcis JUpiinfan, Ess..
31. An Inqu't v into the qneftion, Avl.ethtr the
Api* Mellificn, or trur Honey-Bee, is a na
tive of America. Ber. wviin Sa:th Baiteti t M. i).
32. An Account of a Cornet.
David Ritttnhcnfe, Fjq.
23. Cadmus or a Treat!fe on the Element* of
Written Language, illustrating, by a Phi|o
fophical divlfion of Speech, fl;e power of
each character, thereby mutual!; fvtmg. tbe
Orthography and Orthoepy. wTfli an F.fTav
on the mode of teaching the ot Snrd
aaw 11 J.
and consequently t Dumb to fpcak, by \Vi*|
Thornton, M. D. Honored with the Ma
gellanic Gold Medal, by the Philosophical
Society, in December, 1792 N. B.
Cadmus is piinted in a fine 8. voK and fold
by the Puhliftier hereof.
34- Obfcrvatio:i» on the Theory of Water-
Mills. #'• Wdiing.
35* An Improvement on Metalic Conductors
or Lightning-rods. A Ir. Relett Patterjou.
Honored with the Magellanic Premium, by
an Award of the Society in Dccembei 179^-
36. An easy and expeditious method «>t dis
sipating the noxious Vapour commonly
found in Wells and other fiibterraueou*
places tbenezer Rubinfor, tjj.
37. A method of draining Ponds in level
grounds. JtJt lliggiat.
38. OU» r ervations on the severity of the win
ter, 1779, 1782. Rei' Matthew Wtljon.
39. A Description of a new Standard for
Weights and Mealures; io a letter from
Mr. John Cooke, of Tippet ary in Ireland.
40. Description of a Sprinc-Block, designed
to aflift a Velfel in failing. Francis Hopktu
/on, Ej'q. Honored with Magellanic
Gold Medal, by *n Award oi the Society
in December 179 J.
December 23.
ADVERTISEMENT
FOR the benefit of thole w'lo maybe con
cerned it may not be improper to noticc,
that the United States, by their Ast ofthe 12th
of February 1793, ordered that all Claims of
the description therein mentioned, and which
originated previous to the 4th of March 1789:
be profented at the Treasury on or before the
flvft day of May 1794* othefwife they will*
44 for ever thereafter, be barred, and exclu
<4 ded from settlement or allowance/' And
as there may be several Creditors ofthe Uni
ted States, holding Certificates or Se
curities, which form a part of the Domettic
Dsbr, an/1 who wilh to fubferihe to the Loan,
they are reminded that the term lor receiving
fubferiptions at the Treasury, is by the Ast of
the United States, pafled the fccond of March
last, extended to the last day of June, 1794*
The following is an extaft from the Ast of
Limitation above referred to :
SiCTiON I. 44 Be it enaftcd bv the Senate
and House of Representatives of the United
Stares of America, in Congrcfs aflembied—'
That all claims upon the United States, for
Services or Supplier, or for other canfe, mat
ter or thing, furnifhrd or done, previous to
the 4th dav of March 1789, whether founded
upon Certificate*, or other written document#
from Public Officers or other wife, which have
not already been barred hy any Ast of Limi
tation, and which fhaJl not be piefenred at
the Treafuty before t he fit ft day of May 1794,
fliall for ever afttt be barred and prei'cnbci
f'Oin settlement 6r allowance :
that nothing herein contained, ftiall be con
strued to affect Loan-Office Certificate*, Cer*
tificates of Final Settlements, Indents of In
terest, Balances entered in the books of the
regifler of the treasury commorly callcd regif*
tered certificates,loans of monies obtained in
foreign countries, or certificates issued pu- a
ant to the Ast, intitled 44 An Ast, making pro
vision for the Debt of the United States.
ADVERTISEMENT.
New-Jersey, ) F> Y virtue of a Writ to nt
Sussex County. ff. ) JDdire&ed, issued out of
the High Comt of Chancery of Newjwfty, at
the fnit of William Shipley against John M'ng
arid others; I shall expose to sale at Publia Ven
due, on the sixth day of Februaiy next, between
the hour* oft Twelve and Five in the Afternoon
of the fame day, on the Prtmifrs k t,he following
described Tra&'of Land, with its appurtenances,
fiuiatr in the Townftiip of Oxford and County
of Sussex, beginning at a Chcfnut o*k T r«c, cor
ner ol Dantrl. Cox's land, and U tiding in tbc
line of a fottner fuivey made to Thomas Steven
son, being marked with the letter B. and thonrc
extending aiong Coxc's line (firft) south fifty de
grees weft fifty-five chains and fevemy-five links
to a Black Oak Treecorner ol Joseph Shippen's
land (fccond) south nine degrees and fifteen mi
nutes. weft ninety chains and sixty five links to
a sot ked White Oak Tree, marked with the let
ters R and B another of the said Shippen's cor
ners (third) thence north eighty degrees, raft one
hundred and forty-five chains, to a port on the
southerly fide of PaquaolVc-River, being also a
corner of John Reading's land (fourth) thrnce
north thirty-nine degrees well, one hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place of beg lining,
containing nine hundred and thirtv acres with
the ufaal allowance for roads and high ways —
The fame Premises arc- within eight miles of the-
River Delaware, and there is. thereon a convent*
ent Grift. Mill with two pair of Stone^—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fuffceient ft ream of
watrr for their ufc—a Dwelling House. Store
Hoafe, and fcveral ftnall.buildings.
MARK THOMPSON, Sheriff.
Patrd 2«d day of Julv, 1793.
E. Oswald,
No. 156, Market-Street, South,
A T tl'e reqoeft of a number of friend*,
a a. proposes oublifliing The Independent
Ga/.st tee*, twjee a u-eck, viz Wedneldpys
and Saturdays— toconiirence in January next,
it fufficicnt «!icoe«agemcnt offers
Ir will hepubliflitd on Paper and Types
equal to its prefelnt appearance. The fub
;fcription V dollars per #nn.
Adyertifenie.nis not exceeding a fqnare,
Kvill be inlcj ted j ti.mes for I dollar—every
cojiliiuianee one of a dollar. Tho c «x
---pefrfliMga fquaie, m rbe r ame proportion.
PHILADELPHIA: ±
Priktid i;y JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
Sotith Foiirth^treet.
co<l2w.