EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 77 of Vol. V.]
For Amsterdam,
The new fact-failing, coppcr
bottomed SHIP
tfig ADRIAN A
K. Fitzpatrick, Master.
Ll*of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or paflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794. dtf
For Freder'tcklburgb and
Falmouth,
(Rappahannock River, Virginia)
-~t THE SCHOONER
Friendjhip,
r Macnamara,Mafler
Will feil on Saturday next. For freight or
paflage apply to the Captain on board, at
John Wain's Wharf, or to
Emanuel Walker.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
VIRGINIA TOBACCO, FLOUR,
WHEAT, and GINSENG.
March 5. 3twff
For Sale or Charter,
The Ship
gM&j ANDROMACHE,
(an American bottom)
"SSmsftziX. 7°bn Mod re, Matter ;
Is a stout good vefTel, about two years old,
burthen 231 tons, has only made three voy
ages, and may be sent to sea at a small ex
j*nce. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
Wharton Sis Lewis.
Feb. 23, 1794. dtf
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased,
TheHoufe N°. 245,
AND
Lot of Ground
On which it stands, wherein Jam t s Biddlt
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
street, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet 10 inches in
Front on Mirket-iVeet, arid the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold fub
je& to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their fucceflbri
forever. For terms apply to
SamuelCoates,
Jonathan Jokes,
Anthony W. Morris,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, dee'd.
*top 3W
Match i, J79
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS,
PLATES, &c.
Done in the mod elegant manner, and after
the firft mailers ; likewifr,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finiftied at the (horteft notice, by
• GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
.between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth llreets.
March 4. dtf
WHEREAS an alias fubptrna has ifiued
out of the Supreme Court of this Com
monwealth) at the suit of Marcarit Evans,
• poo 3 pennon preferred bv the said Makga
-1 it, praying for a Ditorce from the bonds of
Matrimony, entered into with Roiirt Evans.
Thia is to give notice 10 the said Robirt, that
lip be and appear at the said Supreme Court, to
Ve held at the City of Philadelphia on Monday
•be seventh day of April next, at the State-House
in the said City, to answer the matters ailedged
io the said petition.
Wn. CHAPMAN,
Sheriff of Bucks County,
llarrh 5, 1794. «iaw£w
Tp Robert Ivans, •
d tfte Jpfate
Just Imported,
lii thp Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-flreet wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Duck,
Ditto O-znaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, viz* Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious Jizts.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron j square and flat bdrs,
Hair Ribband, ATo. 4.
Dutch Great Coats 9
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c. iffc.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—-
fbou Id application be made within a few day s ;
othetwife Jbe will take freight for Amjler
dvm.
March 1, 1794.
A CHOICE COLLECTION,
In the various branches of Literature, im
ported by the last arrivals from Europe,
for Sale at very reasonable prices, by
James Kennedy,
A*< 9. a 6, Spruce, between Front iff id Streets *
Among which are the following :
HAMBERS'S Di6lonaiyof Arts and Sci-
V- / cnccs, 5 Vols. Folio.
Henry's Bible and Commentary, 6 Vols. Folio.
UnivelTal Hiftorv, 7 Vols. Folio.
Churchill's Collection of Voyages, 6 Vols. Folio.
Pailadio's Archite&ure, bell Edition, a Vols.
Fo!io ift one.
Rapin'* Kiflorv of England, with Tindal's con
tinuation, 3 Vols, Folio.
Hume's Hiftorv of ditto, with Smollet's ditto.
14 Vols. Octavo.
Malton's complete Treatise of Perfpe&ive, 2
Vols, in one*
Bruce's Travels, Landon Edition, 5 Vols. 410.
Clavigero's Hiitory of Mexico, 2 do. do.
Robertfon's History of America, 2 do. do.
Maclaurin's Newton's Philosophy, 410.
M'Knight's Harmony of the do.
Lowman on the Revelations, do.
Locke on the Epistles, do.
Led wick's Antiquities of Ireland, do.
Whiithuift's Theory of the Earth, do. v
Glifs's Account of the Canary Islands, do.
Tile Annual Register, from its Commencement
to 1791, inclusive, 34 Vols.
Nicbuhr's Voyage to Arabia, 2 Vols, Octavo.
Bartram's Travtls thro' the Sou»h»*»n States.
Some of the very latest and best Colle&ions of
Voyages and Travels.
Creviers Lives of the Roman Emperors 10 Vols.
O&avo.
L'Antiquile expliqu£e par B. Montlaucon, 15
Tom. 10.
AtKiquir£« d'Egypte par Norden.
D'ttionnaire Hiltorique g Tom.
Theatre de Voltaire cleg, ielie, 9 Tom.
Hft lire Romam par Ro'lin, 16 Tom.
Oeuvresde Boileaiijde Moliere, &c. with manv
others equally good. A Catalogue of which
may be seen a: the place of Sale.
He has also for Sah y
An excellent Hadley's Qiadiam.
A few Acromati Pockci Perfpeftive Glalftj,
A Camera Ohfcura.
A capital German Flute, with 6 Keya, and ad
ditional joinrs.
And a few elegant colour'd Piints,
TREASVRrofPENNSTL VAN lA,
February 14, 1794.
PUBLIC Notice is herebygiven lo all perluns
indebted to the Commonwealth, for monies
borrowed of the Trußees of the Loan Office,
eftabliftied per of the 4th of April, 1785,
that the time is expired when the last paymrnt
should have been and every jaftifiable
indulgence having been granted, That unless
they come forward and pay off their refpefiive
balances on or before the firfE day of April next,
precepts will issue against all delinquents with
out regard to persons or circumltances. All
former and ex:fting IherifFs, who have money
in their hands belonging to said Office, are re
queued to bring it lo me on or before the above
period, other wife I (Kill be ander the disagree
able neceflity of prosecuting them without dif
tindion.
JAPANN'D
P S. The Printers throughout the State are
requested ta insert ihe above in their papeia for
the information of their d
WANTED,
A Man Servant,
Who is acquainted with the common duties
about a house. None need apply but such
as can be well recommended.
tbnk*.
Wednesday, March 12, 1794.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
BOOKS.
CHRISTIAN FEBICER,
of the Printer.
dtf
AND
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, froixi
St. Peterlburg in Russia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22 f Walnut-llreet-
March 4,1794,
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street :—
A few Bale# of RufDj Sheetings,
Barcelona in Boxes,
A bale ot low-priced Coiion H-ndkercHiefi,
A Quanuty of Souchong Tea, Hyfoa and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland (Jin io Cafej,
A Quantity of Bnmftonr,
With a Variety of other Goods.
F<*b. 20. Q'awfiw
d—tf
A Slitter of Iron
WANTED.
A MAN well /killed in rolling and
flitting Iron into Sheets, may have
good encouragement by calling on the
Printer, Feb. eopAt
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfrcada and in cafrs of 50 bottles each,
a L so,
A few ca s es Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipe*, hogflicads and quarter caflts,
FOl SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Ftom-.trcet.
J l "' '• '794- dtf
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Muscovado sugar in hhds.&bbis.
Hyson and Souchong Yeas.
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, in pipes
and qaarter calks.
Spanish Indigo.
Boston Beef, in barrels.
And a (mail invoice of Muslins.
NALBRO' & JOHN FRAZIER,
No. 164, South Front-street.
fmw4w
March 8.
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the Hohfe of Reprefcntativesy
W December ailt, <793.
HE RE AS the Commiilioners of public
Accounts, have reported, that they can
not procted to the in.cftigation ot the Treasury
Accounts, relpe&ing special Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cii
culation :-^Therefore,
Resolved, That all holders of special Indent*
be di 1 cetcd, and rcquina,-on orbtlorc the fir Ik
day ot November 11 xr.to deliver the special In
den i 111 their poflTcflion 10 one or other of the
Conimiffiooes* of the Treasury, who are togi\e
rc "'P I! 4or fame, and to report to tbeCoin
miflionerk on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day ot November next, the amount by
them tefpedtvcly receivod, and also 10 the Le
gtuature, at their meeting in Noyember next.
And that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, <hall be* and the lame are
hereby barted.
V»l
Rcjclvcdt That public notice of this resolution
be given in the leveral Gazettes in this Stale,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And ihat the Delegates «t this
State in the Congrcfs of the United Stales* be re
queued to cause this rdolution to be publifeed
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadcl-
P 'a and New-York, and that provision will be
made for the expences attending such publica-
Ordered, That the resolution be [cut to tj«
Seiuie lor their rnnc'irrfni f.
By order of the Houfr,
JOHN SANfORD DART, C.H. R.
In the SENATE,
Drtmm >1(1,1793.
fleJolv:d. That this House do eoncur witfi thC
Houle ol Rrpiefcntatives in the (oreso-ng lefo
lotions.
Ordncdy That the refolutioos be lent to the
House ot Rcprcfcntativrt.
By order of the Sroatr,
ewtNov.
(T7" This Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement'—The Suljlripian
encreajes tidily—Adrjertijing Favors art
foliated —These conflitute an ejfential Item
in dimini/hing the Dtlit fide of the Account.
diw,U^wtf
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
[VVhole No. 535.]
Frim thj Virginia Gjzellr.
VIRGINIA, hail, thy pfaife demands my
'ong,
I sing thy Patriots, »nd I do them wrong:
You boast another rice, of godlike men,
Whose eulogy requires a nobler pen,
But to my native impulse ever true,
1 honor merit, and I honor you,
Should you great Madison, approve my
strain,
At leall my labour will not be in vain ;
For worth like thine, One honest with re-
ccive,
Tis all the Muse, and all the friend can give*
May you the best reward that Heaven can
fend,
Long serve your country, ever 'oe her friend,
True to her irtterefts, and the Rights of
Man,
Anxious to do her all the good you can.
Go on immortal Man, the pith pursue,
Mark'doutby Heaven, and deftiited but for
yQU;
Millions unborn with gratitude (hall raifc
To thee a monument of lading praise,
Succeeding ages shall revere thy name,
And pratling rftiants leam to lisp thy fame.
Go on great Giles, nor venal mifcreantt
heed,
Yotlr cause is Freedom'*, and ySVi must suc
ceed,
The real Republicans throughout our land,
Shall hail you as their guardian and their
friettd,
While G ~ D , D—S , and
A ,
Shall be defpis'd, detested, hated names.
Thee too, bold Nicholas, I fee thee
there,
Thy Country's sacred intirefts all thy care!
Prince Edward's Hero,* joins the no
ble train,
And fa-ears the Rights of Freemen to main
tain.
See Britain (hake, her Agents fneakaway,
While'men like these Columbia's sceptre
sway.
Qh, Massachusetts, once my boast
and pride,
The nurse of Heroes, and the Patriot's guide
How haft thoil fallen, all thy glory loft,
Damn'd by a speculating, ftoek-jobbing hofl.
Wretches, who made immortal by their
crimes,
Shall live to infamy, thro' fiiture times,
Ages to come ihall their vile actions know,
While Plwtus welcomes to the realms be
low.
PLyTus, the only God whom they adore,
Give them but gold enough, they aflt no
more;
Not such thy Patriots, of oldfeventy-five,
Not fucji thy Hancock, much lov'd (hade
forgive;
Forgive, great Adams (names to Freedom
dear)
The Muse who dar«s to introduce you here.
Virtues like yours, my feeble powers mfpirej
My bosom burns with patriotic fire.
O, would to Heaven, that my weak word*
might fh'ove,
And route the People whom I dearly love,
To their true interests, open all their eyes,
And bid their ancient, noble ardour rife.
Bid them despise the (peculating race)
And choose new characters, to fill their pjac(i
Men not for riches, but for worth approv'd,
Who love their Couutry, by their Country
lov'd,
Whose services, yet may prop their finking
Hate,
And lave front ruin, ere if be too late.
* Citizen Abraham Vtnablt,
Richmond, Feb. 34.
Foreign Intelligence,
The foßttuing intelligence it by the
Jbip Harriet f Cap!. Nation, in 56"dajt
from Lpninptm, (England) arriv jat
Norfolk. *1 r
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
December 7.
Defeat of the Rtjelijlt at Angert.
The following letter was read from th«
Reprefentativei of the people at Anger*,
dated Angers, December 5.
" \\ e hasten to inform you, that the
rebels have attacked Angers, and have
been beaten They left 8s yefterdav.
The citizens of Angers have shewn an e
nergy worthy republicans, in sustaining as
thfy haw * siege which lifted ferty-eigb*
hour*. -M "Rie women of tke plice, fbrgetinj;
AC weaknef* of their fe*, allilled in cat
tying bullets and ammunition.
** The republicans of the citizens of An-,
giers equalled the bravery of our soldiers.
The rebels have left us four of their pieces
of cannon. The fields are covered with
their dead bodies. Five hundred were cut
to pieces. They are retiring in disorder
upon La Fleche—our cavalry are pursuing
them."
,The Convention, after hearing this let
ter declared, that the citizens of Angiers
had deferred well of their country.
PARIS, December 11.
Monsieur Van den Yver, the famous
banker, has been executed, with two of
his sons. They were fouud guilty of en
deavoring to ruin the credit of France,
having advanced large sums of money to
Madame du Bai re, who sent them to Great
Britain to be placed in the Britilh funds ;
of hiving sent 200,000 livres to the Bi
fhopof Rochefoucault, and the fame sum
to M. Rohan Chabot ; and finally, of hav
ing been found at the Louvre with the
Knights of the Foignard, to whose corps
they belonged.
The ex-mini Her of finance, Claviere,
has ftabbedhimfelfin prison.
M. Emery, the former mayor of Dun
kirk has been executed.
The trial of Madame du Barre before
the Revolutionary Tribunal, was conclud
ed'on the morning of the Bth inft. The
jury having pronounced her guilty of the
charges adduced againfl her, (he was con
demned to die. As soon as sentence was
pafled upon her, (he declared (he had im
portant secrets to disclose. The execution
of the sentence of death, was therefore or
dered to be suspended.
LONDON, Dec. 10.
The following is a lift of what the Auf
trians have acquired by the capture of Fort
Louis : 110 pieces of cannon in the best
condition, n pieces damaged, 20 how
ltztri, 10 mortars, 30,000 balls of dif
ferent sizes, 7500 bomb howitzer
shells, 7.0,0001b. of gun-powder, 30,0001b.
of bacon, 800 sacks of rice, i7oofacks
of barley, 6ooolb. of flour, biscuit for fix
months, 300 live oxen, 650 sheep, 8000
measures of wine, 200 of brandy, and
100 pontons of copper, worth a million.
December 7,
Last night difpatclies were received
from the head-quarters of his Royal High
ness tbc Duke of York, dated the 13th
in Hani. The army under the command
of his royal highness, was upen the point
of marching to Ghent, its appointed win
ter quarters.
By the Dutch Mail which came in last
night, we had no further accounts of the
bloody ast ion fopght between the duke of
Brunfwick and the French on the ift inft.
Although the Republicans were driven
back with great loss on the firft, yet they
returned to the attack on the second. It
was on this occasion, that in the army of
Wurmfer, General Keglewich was Ihot,
and the duke of Bourbon wounded in the
Hand. The corps of the prince de Conde
was principally engaged in this aiftion.
On the 4th the French made a fre(h
attack, in which they were also repulsed.
The accounts from the army of the
duke of Brunfwick, state, that the French
have evacuated Bliefcaftcl, and retreated
to S'aarbruck.
_ Letters from Madrid of the 3d ult.
date, that a corps of 60,000 men has been
ordered to be raised to reinforce the Spa-
A warrant, it i 9 said, has been ifTued
by the Lord Provotl and Sheriff of Edin
burgh, for the arrest of the eldest son of
a Scotch peer, who took an a&ive part in
the bafinefsof the British Convention.
BeCdes the attack which the Republic
ans made upon the Auftriana and the
corps of the prince de Conde, on the id
inft. they liazarded a second attack on the
Bth, upon the whole corps of Conde, and
upon ahe right wing of the Auflrians.
They were however, repulsed with great
loss.
The corps of Conde loft on this occaG-
c n the brave general Gelb.
EtctraH of a letter from Paris, Nov. 23.
" 1 wi(h the English knew the real state
of France, they would then be convinced
that though they may ruin themselves,
they will never be able to subdue the spirit
which is now afloat in this country. A
njw species of fanaticifm fires everv ima
gination and invigorates every man. There
are ni'.ie hundred thousand men a&uallv
jn arms, 1 ' and the whole kiogdbm 'is noit
become a military (chool.
The treasury overflows with money,
and Ihoulcf it be exhausted, the rich will
be forced to produce every farthing they
pafieis, for this is the day of triumph to
the poor. Of the prefcnt government I
will not speak, there can be but one opini
on of it: yet were the Englilh to make
peace, it mull change, and the hand of
death would be flopped within as well as
without. I repeat it, my friend, all Eu
rope, 1 have not learned to talk big here,
will only render the enthusiasm more warm
that carries every thing before it. Should
the war continue, it will furnilli a fre(h
pretext, plausible reasons to gloss every
tyranny, but it will never restore Monar
chy." '
DOVER, DecemSer 19,
This morning arrived from Oftend the
Turkilh Ambaflador ; his name is Jufuf
Effendi—he has a suite of about 20 per
sons, among which is an Aga of the Ja
niflaries. On his l?nding, the guns from
the castle and forts were fired : A guard
of grenadiers ordered from the Devon
(hire militia—and their band plays before
the inn he is at. He appears very affable
and fond of being seen.
The Ambaflador departs to-morrow for
the capital. Before he setts ofT the mili
tary will be drawn out, and every respect
and attention ihewn him that is poflible.
UNITED STATES.
NEW YORK March Bib.
Capt. Bebee, Aflive, from Guadaloupe, in
forms. that it was reported and believed, in that f
land, that a Britifk aimament of 6 Jail of the line, and
5 or 6000 troops, had taken pojfeffion oj St, Pie re
and Trinity, in the ijland of Martmico, on the -jth.
of February ; that Gen. Rochambcau, the French com
mander , had collefled his forces at Fort Bourbon, ar.d
being well fupphed with provjions. ißc. it was expec
ted he would make a fuccefsful refinance-
Further particulars of the re-capture of TOULON.
A French Gentleman who came pajfenger in the
Morning Starjrom Carthatyna, and who refidedin
Toulon, during its invefimcnt, and embarked JiOm
thence for (drthagena, wuh the troops on board a spa
nfkfhtpy has favoured us with thtjoilowing pat trcu
lars rejpefling the,dejeat andcapturtoJgen.O'Harp-
That the Republicans were ereclfng a bu'.tery vetyi
near the city and oppoftefort Matboujqucl ; the Spa
nish and Neapolitan generals represented to O'Jiara
the dangerous conjequenut oj the Republicans hold
ing pojsejpon oj that battery; o'tiara replied, Thai's
nothing, let them place their cannon, and I'lJ
go and take it. The Republicans having completed
the battery, it was mounted with 24 poundersand
began to play on fort Malboufquet, this made O' Hara
. rcfolve to attack it, for which fei vice he took 30P0
men, of Spanijh, Neapolitans, Piedmonteje and liti
tifh, in three columns, and appeared bejore the place
which induced the French to abandon the bauery ; the
Allies took pojfefjion of it : 0' Hara not being fatisfi
ed with accomphfhing his frjl objeEl, continued to ad
vance with the Brittjh troops againjl another J mull
redoubt, when he jound himfelf fur rounded by about
6000 French ; his party was completely routed, and
himfelf taken prjor.er ; the Neapolitan), Piedmontefe
and Spaniards, attempting to Jufport the retreating
' Britijh, were purjued by the French, and driven back
to the town with the lojs oj nearly halj their nulnb.r,
in hilled, wounded and This flejeat dij
gufled the Neapolitans and Piedmontefe Jymuch, (not
having been in service for a great number of years)
that they threw out fever e refefltons agaiufl the Bri
tish general, o*Hara, f 9T having brought th. v 1 into
such a fcrafie.
NORFOLK, February 26.
On Sunday last arrived in Hampton
Roads, the brig Two Sifters, Capt. Jones,
in 30 days from St. Euftatia. Captain
Jones informs, that the day before he fail
ed a Proclamation was received there from
the Windward Islands, which authorized
the British (hips of war and privateers, to
capture all neutral vessels who have French
property on board , vessel and cargo con
sidered lawful prize. That the laws in
force at the time of the reign of Louis
XVI. are to be the laws by which the
Americans {hall be guided, and that all
vessels who have other produce than taffia
and molasses on board are to be condemn
ed, vessels and cargo, for the benefit of
the captors, as illegal traders. In conse
quence of the above a number of vessels
had already been condemned, among which
were the brig Richmoud, Capt. Daycs,
belonging to Portfmoath, and the Hoop
Diligent, Capt. Cunningham, of this port.
The Engli(h fleet had arrived at Barba
does, confiding of 17 fail of the line, and
some frigates, with 10/300 troops, def
ined for the attack of the French Islands.
WINCHESTER, March 3 .
On Monday last the important questi
on, whether the Commonwealth of Vir
glhia wis entitled to the Manoi of Leeds
(a part whereof is situate within the coun
ty of Frederic) in consequence of the
Proprietor, Denny Fairfax, being a Bri
tilh'lubjeft, and relitknt within the king
dom of Great-Britain ? was ably argued
before a refpe&able Jury,, convened at
Millwood, by the Efcheator, for that
purpose ; who, after bellowing that deli
beration on the arguments used, as well
for as against the claim, which a regard
for jufticeaud the magnitude and import
ance of the subject requited, determined,
that the Commonwealth was not entitled,
by anr existing law, to the property
claimed.
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 12.
The anniversary of the birth day of the
President of the United States has been cele
brated through the Union with unusual testi
monials of pleasure and fatisfa&ion —Such
as evince that encreafing years have added to
the general sentiment of refpe<sl and venera
tion in the minds of our citizens, for the fa
ther of his Country and the friend of Man.
The tenth instant there was a procession
an(V rejoicing in New York on account of the
the recapture of Toulon.
A lift has been publilhed of the names of
$5 vessels of the United States, detained at
(he firitifh ports in the Weft Indies—viz. at
Dominico36, St. Kittsao, Montfcrat 39.
The College of Phyficiansof this city,tak
ing into confiderat'on the disagreeable tenden
cy of many reports refpeifting the Yellow Fe
ver, have agreed unanimously to inform their
fellow-citizens, that to the best of their know
ledge, there is not a Gngle cafe of she above
mentioned fever in the city or liberties.
The Britilh forces landed at Martinique,
are under the command of Sir Charles Grass.
Their landing was effedled without opposition
at Priority, St. Ann's and Trinity.
Accounts from St. Domingo, from 29th
Dec. to 17th Jan. last, as publilhed in the two
French papers in this city, state, that Mar
meladty Donjon, Port Margot, Plaifanec y
Du Limb? Gros Morne, Gonarve, and J)u
Borgnt are in pofleflion of the Spaniards, a'.fo
that Fort Dauphin was taken on the 30th
Jan. —and that Cape Tiburon was taken by
the Englilh the 17th Feb. with the loss of 11
men and an officer killed.
TRANSLATION
Of the nthand 15th articles of tbe Rrgula
■tioni of Domeflic Trade, made by bis Ca
tholic Majejly, during the present Contefl
•with France. 1793.
14th. In three months after the publication
of this royal Cedula, no goods, wares, or
merchandize, which are now imported, lhall
be admitted to an entry in the cultom-houfes
of my kingdom, from any friendly or neu
tral states or country, without a luflicient jul
tification or proof, that such goods, wares jr
merchandize, are not the produce of France
or her colonies.
15th. The above required juflification or
proof must con fill of certificates from the
magistrates or infpedtors of manufactures in
the different cities or ports, from whence
such goods, wares, or merchandize lhall, or
may be exported, in whieh c.rtificate their
quantity, quality, manufacture or growth,
shall be fully expressed, and that thev have
not received any advantage or improvement
in France, or any-of its dependencies, or
contributed in any wife to its revenues.
The. said certificates tnuft come attefled
by the Minister of Spain, and in defefl there
of bv the Spanish consuls at the ports or pla
ces, from which the goods are exported,prov
ing them to be exported with the knowledge
of the magistrates or infpeftors of manufac
tures of the port or place, who shall declare
that they are well informed of iiich fhipmer.t
being bona fide intended for tie ports of tins
kingdom.
Done at Madrid, &c. &c.
A Gentleman has favoured us with an Eajl
India paper, -which contains the follow
ing Intelligence.
MADRAS, August 24.
WE lose not a moment in communi
cating to the Public the important and
inteiefting intelligence we hare just re
ceived of the Surrender of the Garrison
of Pondicherry to the British Army, un
der the command of Colonel Brathwaite.
Our fourteen gun Battery to the north
ward was opened at 7 o'clock on the
morning of tire 2 2d, and in less than two
hours the North, and North-East angles
of the Fort were Completely silenced. The
enemy being obliged to ma(k every era
brafure—At noon the mortar battery was
opened with so much judgment and elFeft,
that the deftruftion mult have been very
considerable, for at 4 o'clock P. M. flags
of truce were displayed" from all pans of
the Fort; and about j the Lieutenant
Colonel of the French troops, with the
town Major were eonda&cd to head-quar
ters, deputed by the garrison to requeti
that no further approaches, (hould be car
ried on, and that a ceflation of arms might
take place for 24 hours. The Commander
in Chief poiitively refufed the firft part of
the fequifition ; but agreed to suspend
hoftflities until 8 o'clock the following
morning; at which time the surrender
took place, and the Colonels Floyd and
Maxwell, were dire&ed to take pofleffioß
of the Tort. ■ •
The prirate property of individuals i*
secured, the French officers to be on their
parole, but the troops not permitted to
march out with the honors of war.
Circumllanced as they were, the terms
of capitulation evince the moderation and
forbearance of the captors ; —and the af
ter orders of the Commander in Chief are
fa exprefilve of the urbanity and genero
sity which have ever been the leading fea
tures in the British chara&er that we have
a peculiar fatisfa&ion in having an oppor
tunity of laying them before our readers.
GENERAL ORDERS.
Pondicherry, 23d August, 1793
Colonel Brathwaite hag the honor and
happiness to announce to the gallant army
under his command the news of the sur
render of Pondicherry, on terms dictated
by himlelf. Terms which he flatters him
felf mud ever remain as a memorial to the
French Nation that no superiority of force,
no advantage of circumstances, no mifcon
duft of an enemy will cause a Britilh eom
mander to deviate from that humanity
which is the diftinguiflied chara&eriftic
of a brave nation. He has spared the whole
of the property of individuals which the
rigid laws of arms would have juftified
him in treating otherwise. He has spared
an enemy that continued to ast offeniively
and definitively while unmoleftcd, but
who funk under the firft impression of hit
superior force, afkuated by the fame sen
timents he has no doubt but the whole
army under his Command will consider
these infatuated and unfortunate prisoners
entitled to their moll humane attention.
It is not neceflary for him at this time
to give so eminently distinguished an ar
my any orders on this head. The Gene
rals under whom they have served have
taught them that an enemy conquered i»
an enemy no more—and he is convinced
that the Britilh troops about to garrison
Pondicherry, as conquerors, and about
to take charge of French prisoners, will
convince both them and the inhabitants
that they can be as orderly, generous, and
humane, in the discharge of those duties,
as they have been aitifc and brave in the
duties of the trenches.
To a chearful, unanimous and zealous
perfeverance in their several duties, and to
their established chara&er for Bravery,
mull be attributed the success of the pre
sent day—and their Commander will ever
remember it with pleasure and gratitude.
To thank corps or individuals in an ar
my so fully entitled to his warmed thanks
and approbation, cannot be attempted.
He thanks and approves the whole with
all his heart; and will not fail to speak
these his sentiments to his superiors.
By the Swallow Packet and Scorpion
Cruizer, just artived, we learn that Ge
neral Sir Robert Abercrombie and his
suite, who embarked on the former veflel
from Bombay on the Bth instant, had been
fafely and in good health, landed at An
jango on the 17th.
City-Hall, March Bth, 1794.
At a meeting of the citizens of Philadel
phia, the inhabitants of the Norther*
Liberties, and the diftrid of Soulh
wark, called by public advertisement,
to receive the report of the committee
appointed the 14th September last, to
alleviate the fufferings of their fellow
citizens, laboring under the affiidting
sickness which then prevailed.
The Hon. Thomas M'Kean, Esq.
Chairman.
Anthony-Morris, Esq. Secretary.
The report of the committee wasmade
and read as follows—and also the follow
ing particular statement of donations and
diiburfements—the vouchers in fuppont of
which were productd.
Having been appointed a Committee
on the 14th of September lait, at a meet
ing of the citizens, called by the Mayor,
of alleviating the fufFerings
of our fellow citizens, who were laboring
under the affixing sickness which thenjrrrvaifcd ; we have requeftei! your at
tendance, in order briefly to report to you
out proceedings ; referring you for more
particular information to our minutej,
which are in the press, and to our accounts,
now produced for your infps&ios.
Upon entering on the duties of our
appointment, we found many families of
the poor struggling under disease and
want. And that the house of William
Hamilton, at Bulh-Hill, which had been
taken poffeflion of and converted into an
Hospital, for their accommodation,' con
tained several sick persons in a deplorable
situation. Two of Our members offered
their service to superintend that instituti
on, they were appointed managers there
of and by their exertion and attention it
was condufled with order and regularity.
About one thaufand persons were removsd
to it, in carriages provided for the purpose,
and supplied with every requisite, to ren
der them comfortable, that the exigency
cf the times and our own situation would
admit.
Notwithstanding the great mortality
which prevailed there, wo think ourselves
warranted in the belief, that much distress
was prevented and the fufferings of many
greatly alleviated. We cannot with pro
priety omit informing you, that the ten
demefs and care exercised by Mary Savill,
the matron of the Hospital, to the Cck,
were such as entitle her to your generous
notice.
The extreme distress to which many fa
milies were reduced, rendering it impofli
ble for them to procure the interment of
their deceased connexions, it became one
of our mod pressing duties to provide for
the burial of such persons, and theiefore
we procured coffins and carriages, and em
ployed suitable persons to attend to this
mournful part of the service.
In the progress of the disease, many
children were bereft of their parents, and
the general distress preventing individuals
from attending to their exposed situations,
we were impelled to take charge of such
orphans, and of course it became necessa
ry to provide a suitable house, with a ma
tron and attendants and a number of wet
nurses. This was done and the whole
placed under the direction of four of our
members, especially appointed for the
purpose; of one hundredand ninety-two of
these helpless innocents; who came under
our care, ninety-four have been reclaimed
by their friends, twenty-seven have died,
and seventy one yet remain ; on whose
behalf we have applied to the legislature,
but as they have not cdme to a determina
tion on our application, we therefore ear
nestly recommend these orphans to your
immediate attention.
The calamitous state of the city caused
an unusual stagnation of business, and in
creased the number of the indigent so
much, that in order to obtain a knowledge
of their real situation and guard against
imposition, in relieving their wants, we
found it neceflary to call for Quittance ;
when a number of refpeftable inhabitants
of the city and suburbs came forward to
our aid, under the title of the Assistant
Committee, who rendered very essential
service by recommending suitable objects;
which facilitated the distribution of mo
ney, provisions and firewood, from the
14th October to the 23d November, to
upwards of one thousand families weekly.
Tliefe different opeiations requiring
considerable funds, and the major part of
the overlcers of the poor, as well as most
of the officers of government and police
being removed ; resource was had to the
President and Directors of the Bank of
North America, who cheerfully accom
modated us with [fx thousand five hundred
dollars; which we have been enabled to
tepay by the subsequent liberality of our
fellow citizens of this and other dates,
whose donations to us have amounted to
twenty nine thousand and eighty nine dol
lars 77- 1 ooths, besides which we have re
ceived 5316 dollars, 32 cents, for sun
dries mentioned in our accounts; which
sums fall (hort of that expended by us,
three thousand five hundred and forty five
dollars 12-1 oaths.
The mode of supplying this deficiency
you will doubtless conceive to be a part
of the business of the present meeting.
As no public provision is made in cafe
we ftiould be visited with a similar afflic
tion (to which all great commercial cities
are ejcppfed) it was deemed eflential, af
ter compenlating the proprietor of Bush-
Hill for the use made of his property, to
secure a resort to it again, (hoirtd it be
found necessary, before the 25 th of March
*795 5 'his was done and it- is still in our
pofTefiioß—wbertin art deposited such ar
ticles as remain on hand bdonging to the
hospitaL The appropriation of these ar
ticles is an objc£t which will claim your
attention.
The confederation of the propriety of
eflablithing a hospital in the neighbour
hood of this city, for persons afflicted
with infe&ioui diseases, which at the time
of appointment was referred to us, Would
have claimed our more particular atten
tion, had not the fubjeft through the re
commendation of the Governor been ta
ken up by the Legislature.
We think it proper to inform you, that
on the 13th of Odtober, a number of
sick and wounded Frenchmen arrived here,
on board the Ship Citizen of Marseilles,
from the hospital of Cape Francois;—
which alarming the inhabitants, we at
the pressing solicitation of the French Le
gation, and to dispel the public fears, ad
mitted these diseased strangers into part
of the buildings at Bush-Hill, the ex
pences, which occurred, have been reim
bursed. » >
Although we have to lament the loss
of Andrew Adgate, Jonathan 'I). Ser
geant, Jofcph Injkecp, and Daniel Offtfy,
four of our members, who, faithful to
the trust rtpofed in them, perfeveringly
discharged, with the molt benevolent at
tention, its various duties, until Djalh
put a period to their exertions, and they
fell themselves, under the blow they were
warding off from others; —yet, while we
look back with mournful regret, to the
loss of our companions—gratiude to the
Supreme Disposer of Events—re
quires our acknowledgement of hjs inter
position in the preservation of our own
lives, and of those of so many of our fel
low-citizens.
By Desire of the Committee,
Matthew Clarkson, President.
Philadelphia, March Bth, 1794.
It was, on motion of A. I. Dallas,
Esq. seconded by Jonathan B. Smith, Esq.
unanimously
Rejolved, That a committee be ap
pointed to prepare an instrument, expres
sive of the molt cordial, grateful, and fra
ternal thanks of the citizens of Philadel
phia, for the important, hazardous and
fuccefsful services, which were rendered
by the Committee of Health, during the
calamity which lately aillictcd the City,
& make report to the next general meet
ing of the Citizens.
Refnlved, That the committee so ap
pointed, do consider and report at the
next meeting of the Citizens, what mea
sures it will be expedient to adopt, for
carrying into effect the benevole'nt mea
sures recommended in the report of the
Committee of Health.
Refobo-d, That the Citizens aforefaid,
do meet in the City-Hall, on Saturday
next, the I Jth instant; at five o'clock in
the afternoon, to receive the report of
their committee.
The following Committee was appoint
ed to carry into effect the said resolutions
-—The Hon. Thomas M'Kean, Esq. A.
I. Dallas, Esq. Anthony Morris, Esq.
Jonathan B. Smith, Esq. John Swanwick,
Esq. Charles ftiddle, Esq. and Doctor
William Rogers.
Thomas M'Kean, Chairman,
Anthony Morris, Secretary.
KINGSTON, (Jam.) Jan. 27.
From lit London Gaztttc.
At the Court of St. James's, the nth
of December, 1793,
Present, The King's molt excellent Ma
jesty in Council.
WHEREAS by article* of capitu
lation, proposed by the inhabit
ants of La Grande Ante, including the
quarter at Jeremie, in the island of St.
Domingo in the Weft-Indies, and accept
ed by Major-General Williamfon, his Ma
jesty's Lieutenant-Governor of the island
of Jamaica ; and also by articles of capi
tulation, proposed by the garrifcn and in
habitants of Cape Nicola Mole and its de
pendencies, in the said island of St. Do
mingo, and accepted by Commodore Ford,
Commander in Chief of his Majesty's ftiips
and vefftls at Jamaica, parts of the said
island of St. Domingo have been furren
dcred to his Majesty, and are -now in his
Majesty's pofleffion, and the inhabitants
thereof are become fubjefti to his Majes
ty : And whereas by an ast pafled in the
last fefiion of Parliament, entitled, " An
ast more efFectually to prevent,
the present war between Great Britai^
and Frince, all traitorous corrrfpondence
with, or aid orafliftance be ng given to his
Majefty'g cnemic»," all persons rcfijing or
being in G. Britain are prohibited, under
the penalt iesof high treason, during thecon
tinuanceof the present war between Gieat
Britain and France, from {applying, to or
for the use of any perfun or persons refi-
or being within any of the dominiont
of France, or any town, territory, port or
place annexed to France, or under the go
vernment of the per foils then exercifmg,
or who might thereafter, during the said
■war, exercise the powers of government
in France, divers articles fpecified in the
said a£t, without licence from hii Majesty,
under his sign manual, or by order in
council, or by proclamation, iirft had and
obtained, fpecifying the articles with ref
pe£t to which the fame (hall be had and
obtained, and also the place and placcs
from which and to which the fame lhall be
sent.
His Majesty, taking the premises, in
to his royal consideration, is pirated, by
and with the advice of hts Privy Coun
cil, to order, and it is hereby ordered,
that it (hall be lawful to and for ;.ll per
sons residing or being in Great Britain to
fell, supply and deliver from any | ort or
place in Great-Britain, or any part of hi»
Majesty's dominions, in or out of Europe,
or in any country in amity with hi» Ma
jesty, to such parts of the laid island of St.
Domingo, as are or (hall be in his Majef
pofieflion, any of the articles fpecified and
enumerated in the before-mentioned ast,
fubjeft nevmhelefs to such duties, rules,
regulations, conditions, reftriftions, penal
ties and forfeitures, as the trade in the
said several articles to any of his Majesty's
colonies and plantations is or (hall be lia
ble to by law: But, it is his Majesty's
plealure, that nothing herein contained,
ihall extend to authorize the exportation
from Great Britain, or from any other of
his Majesty's dominions in or out of Eu
rope, of any of the articles aforefaid,
which are or {hall be prohibited to be ex
ported otherwise than by the said act.
And his Majesty is pleased further to
order and declare, and it is hereby further
ordered and declared, that all his loving
fubjefts may lawfully trade to and from
such parts of th« said Island of St. Do
mingo as are or (hall be in his Majesty's
pofleflion, fubjeft nevertheless to the fame
duties, rules, regulations, conditions, ref
triftions, penalties and forfeitures, to
which the trade to and from his Majesty's
colonies, plantations and Islands in the
Weft-Indies, is orthall be fubjeft by law :
But it is his Majrfty's pleasure, that no
thing herein contained (hall extend to pre
vent the importation in American bot
toms of provisions, cattle, grain and
wood of every kind from the United
States of America into such parti of the
said Island as aforefaid, so long as the
fame (hall be allowed, in purl'uance of and
under the terms and conditious of the
said articles of capitulation, or any other
privileges or exemptions granted by the
said articles of capitulation.
And his Majesty it further pleased to
order and declare, and it is hereby ordered
and declared, that all commodities, being
of the growth, produce or manufacture of
such parts of the said Island of St. Do
mingo as fnall, at the time of the entry of
such commodities for exportation from the
said Island, be in the poflefiion of his Ma
jelly, (hall be permitted to be imported
into any of the ports of this kingdom in
Britilh (hips, owned by his Majesty's fub
jefts, and navigated according to law, fub
jeft to the fame duties, rules, regulations,
reftri&ions, conditions, penalties and for
feitures, as articles of the like fort are fub
jeft to, coming from his Majesty's colo
nies, plantations or 1 (lands in the Weft-
Indies.
And the Right Honourable the Lords
Commissioners of his Majesty's Treasury,
and the Lords Commifßonm of the Ad
miralty, are to give the necessary direc
tions herein, as to them may refpeftivcly
appertain.
W. FAWKENER.
GEORGE R.
Additional inftru&ions to the commander*
of all our fhipi of war, and priva terra
that have, or may have letters of
(L. S.) marque against France. Given at rur
court of St. Jame»'s, the twenty third
day of Oflober, 1793, in the thirty
third year of our reign.
WHEREAS the inhabitant! of the city and
port of Toulon in France, have delivered to
Vice Admiral Lord Hood, commander of our
(hips and vefl°el»in the Mediterranean, poflefli
on of the said city and port and their depen
dence*, and the fame are no lonper under the
government of the perfonaexerciGng the pow
m of government in Franco, b*( arc UL!r
our Royal Protc&t&Q, the commanders of c*r
ships of war, and the commanders of all (hips
anti veliels having letters of marque* and re
prisal, are required and enjoined thlt they do
not detain, or moltft, any fhipi carrying on
trade with the said city and port and their de
pendences, orcarrying cargoes, the property
of the inhabitants thereof, to, or from, any
port or place in our dominions, or to, or from
any port or place in any country which is in
amity with us, but that the said ships and car
goes be coniidered and treated, in all refpe<st*
as belonging to persons under our Royal Pro
tection.
By his majeftv's command,
heWry dundas.
A Copy 1
Jno.lbbetson.j
The fame Jamaica paper contains the or
dinance of the 6th Ncroemher, publijhed in
this Gazette a fenu days Jmce.
Mr. Sedgwick this day, agreeable to no
tice given in the House of Reprefentative>
Monday last, brought forward two rcfolu
h'tions — the purport of which 11, JtrJly
that there (hall be filtten Regiments railed,
to consist of one thousand men each—
fccondly, that the Prcfident of the U, S.
should be authorised to lay an embargo
on ail Veflell in the port» of the U. S.
and- prohibit the exportation of the pro
duce of the country ; both refolurior.s are
provifionarv or conditional, laid on the ta
ble. Want of room prevents a more par
ticular detail in this days Gazette.
We Sire informed that The PRESI
DENT will honor the New Theatre with
his company this Evening* .
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED
Ship Henrietta, Houston, Antigua 20 Jayt
John, Whilwed,
Aurora, Sutor, Kavanila 17
Brig Tryphsena, Hathaway Lecigane 36
Active Dakins, Havanna 17
> »
Bctfey, Smith,
Experiment, Na(h,
Mercury, King, Jamaica Si N. York
Scho'r Maria, Willon, Jamaica 24
Commerce, Simmons, Turks-ill. 30
Sloop Harmony, M'Cormick, Savannah 14
Abby, Eames, Boston 20
Sally, Cook, St. Croix 18
Dove, , Newbu'ry-Port (t
CLEARED
Schooner Winfield, M'Nernon, Norfolk
Capt. Sutor of the (hip Aurora, failed
in company with IJ fail of American
vcflels belonging to Bolton, New-York,
and Philadelphia.
Capt. VVilfon of the schooner Maria,
the 24th Jan. on his pallage from Port
au-Prince (homeward bound) was taken
by the Hawk privateer of Kinglton, and
carried in there, where all his cargo was
taken out and libeNrd—afterwards, per
mitted to proceed.
£ Capt. Wilson on the i6th Feb. in Ist.
27.49. l° n g* 72. 30. spoke the schooner
Nancy, Lawrauce, of Philadelphia, bound
to New-Orleans. Capt. Lawrance loft
his main-mast two days before, in a heavy
gale of wind.
A large ship, and several brigs, schoo
ners and (loops, were seen in th; Bay, and
off the Capes.
Cy- We are much obliged to our cor
respondent Hortalor. for his very friendly
hint ; it (hall be attended to as iouu at
poflible.
Loft at the Theatre,
IN Chcfnut Street, a -handfamc Stuwl, com
monly called Caincn Hair j worked with co
lour!. Whoever will eiurn n 10 ibe Pi iiiKr,
thai! rececotc a handsome reward.
March is, 1794.
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
March tl.
Will be performed,
A T R A G £ D Y,
CALLE t>
DOUGLAS.
To which will he added,
A COMIC OPERA, (by the Author of tht
Poor Soldier) in two a£U» calkd
The FarmerS
Amlterdam 76
Hiipaniola
Jeremic 24
New-York 10Philadelphia, March 1, 1794-
JUST PUBLISHED,
y MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market Jirctt,
1 HE FIKST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography i
OR. A
Geographical, Hiflortcal, ana
Commercial Grammar;
Ami p«-efent of the several
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAINING,
I. Tlv* motions, and distances of
the planets, according to the Newtonian fyf-
Min and the latest observations.
2. A general view of the earth, confide red
as a planet; with several ufeful geographical
definitions and problems.
3 The grand divisions of the globe into
land and water, continents and islands.
4- l*he situation and extent of empires,
kingdontsj states, provinces and colonies.
5 Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, metals, minerals, natural curi
fefitiesj seas, rivers, bays, capes, promontories,
aud lakes.
6. The birds and beads peculiar to each
country.
7. Observations on the changes that have
been any where observed upon the face of na
ture since the most earjy periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations; their
forms of government, religion, Jaws, reve
nue-*; tnxes, naval and military strength.
9 The genius, manners, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
ID. Their language,learning,arts,fciences,
manufactures, and commerce.
11. The chief cities, ftruftures, ruins, and
artificial cttriofities.
12. The longitude, latitude, beT-in**, and
distances of principal places from 1 hilade'phia.
To which are added.
1. A Geographical Index, with the names
4nd places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Table of the Coins of all nations, artd
their value in dollars and cents.
3. A Chronological Table of remarkable
•vents, from the creation to the present time.
By tTILLIAM GUTHRIE, E/q.
The Agronomical Pa it corrected by
Dr. Rittenhouse.
To which have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. HerschelL,
and other eminent Astronomers.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrected, Imp oved, and greatly Enlarged
The firft volume Contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, besides two Astronomical Plates,
viz.
1. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world,
3. Europe. 4- Alia. 5. Africa. 6. South
America. 7. Cook's discoveries. 8. Coun
trie* round the-north Pole. 9. Sweden, Den-
maik. and Norway, id. Seven United Pro-*
vlnces. 11 Auft< ian, French and Dutch Ne
' tl>erlands. 12. Germany. 13 Seat of war
in France. 14. France divided intodepait
ments. »5- Switzerland. 16. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. ij- Spain and Portugal.
18. Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 20 Weft-Indies. I\. Vermont. 22. Ar
millary sphere: 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
the prc-fs, will be givefi the following Maps :
Ruifia in Europe and Asia.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
China.
(y. Hindoftan. v
•j. United State*.
g. Bntifh America.
q. S ate of New-Hampshire.
,o. State of MaHTachufetts.
ji. State of Connecticut.
,2. State of Rhode Island.
j3. State of New-York.
,4. State of New-JeiTey.
15. State'of Pennsylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
20. State of North-Carolina.
21. Tenheflee Government.
la. State of South-Carolina. -
23. State of Georgia.
TERMS.
Y, This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix. dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (56 e'ents for boards.)
3. They may receive the succeeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finilhed, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The fubfeription wiil be raised on the firft
day of June i 794» to fourteen dollars, ex
clusive of binding.
5. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
6. The names of the fubferibers will be pub-
Jiftred as patrons of American literature,
arts, and sciences.
It is wholly unneceflfary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American this edi
tion poflefTes, over every imported edition of
any fyftrftrt of Geog aphy extant. The addi
tion of maps of the several state , procured at
a very great expense, and from the best ma
terials that are attainable, fpcaks such fall
convi&ion on this fubjeft, that it would be
difrefpe<st to the reader's understanding to
Ibppofe it requifire to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove <ts superiority. In no
funilar work have such maps been ever intro
duced.
The emendations and additions which are
made in this work,are innumerable,arfd occur
in every page. The public are referred to
the preface for a flight (ketch of a few of
them.
The publiftier takes the prefect oppoi tu
nity of returning his molt sincere thanks to
those refpc&able characters who have favored
him with documents for improving the maps
of several of the ltatcs. He requests a conti
nuance of their kindness; and hopes that such
public spirited citizens, as are poflelfcd of si
milar documents, will favor him with their
assistance in perfecting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which «he has been favoredj has excited
in his bread the warmed Pen tiuients of grati
tude—sentiments which time will not efface.
He pledges himfelf to the citizens of the
United States, to spare neither pains nor ex
pente to r ender the pr< Pent edition ofGuihrie's
Gertgraphy improved, deserving of their pa
tronage. waff
NORRIS-COUK.T,
Back of the New L brary, between Chefnut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
c trying on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL ATES,
for doors or window-(hutfers,don4 in tnc moll
elega-it manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the Country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR S\Lf. BY
M.Carey, No. 11 S,Higb-/lreet )
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sitings and
Subjects, -which are full of Common
Sense, the lejl fetife in the world.
THIS little book is wntien in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all claflTrs of people, merchant, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
wo>k acquired, that it hat paded thio three im
pnflions in the eastern states, and many houie
holders deem it so ufelul as to purchase a copy
for every adtllt in theit families.- Pr ice 2s.
Fehruarv 4.. dtl
War Department.
January 30th 1794*
INFORMATION is hereby given t«. il the
military invalids of the United States,that the
sums to which they are entitled fdr fix months
of their annual penlion, from the fourth day ol
September 1793, and which will become due
on the sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Commissioners of the Loans
Within the states relpe&ively, under the usual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
mull be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpc&ive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pen ft on thev may clann.
By command of ihe Prrfidtnt
of the United S»a'p.*,
H. KNOX,
Sect clary oj War.
The printer! in the relpe&ive Gale# are
requested to publish the above in iheirnewfpa
pcrs lor the space of two months.
January 30,
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths Es° jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECONb-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
jin elegant jHTortment of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY'd fiur CUTLERY,
Wiich they will dif poie of on the inoft rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, M matures
lett, and c'irery thing in the gold and silver
way, done as usual,
December 24,
AVIS.
LE habitans infortunls de la Colonie Franfaife
dc St. Domingue qui dans i'mrend e du
Cap font venus chcrcher un aftle dans les Ecats
Unit font informcs que la Rcpublique leur ac
cordt un paflage pour Fiance. Its font invi'es
en consequence a fc prcfrtiler a cct effet d'ici a
hu't jours chcz les Consuls ic agens de la Re
publique dans les difFennts Potts des Etats Urns.
A Phi lad il phi e, le 10 Ventos— I'an 2d de
la Republiqut une Sc indivisible.
(28 Fevrier, 1794. vieux Jliie)
Le Miniftre Piempotentiare de la Rcpublique
Franyaife.
% JH. FAUCHET.
The editors of new/papers in the United States are
requcjlcd toiinse t tk- above notice in their paper. 8
A RECOMPENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby offered by the Prefidem and Direc
tors of the Bank of the United Stares, to any
person who (hall, on or before the firft day of
May next, produce to them such a plan and e!e
vaiion of a Banking House, as (hall be approved
of by them.—A plain, yet handsome front is
dcfired : The whole building is to be substantial
and commodious with as much space around it,
at th<! (ire of the ground will admit.
The Lot on which the building is to be ere£U
ed, is fiiuated on the weft fid-of Third-street,
between Chefnut and Walnut-streets in Phila
delphia ; and its dimension'- are no feet en
Third-ftrerr, and about 100 fret westward.
THOMAS WILLING, Prefidcnt,
cop
, - , JuJt Imported,
From London,' Dublin, ahd Glasgow,
A»ul now opening for Tale,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Marlct-Jlrcct,
A Lnrge ;ir d Valuable
' COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following
NEW Annual llegilter for 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester lociety, 3 vois>
Priestly on matter and spirit
on chrifttanity
Disney's life of I)r. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty,a colle&ion of e flays
Varieof works
Calm obferver->—by Mackintosh
Ruflell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural hiftor}
Saugnier and Briflon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerusalem delivered
Sinellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips';? history of inland navigatio®
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
NVhitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's di&ionary, 2 vols,
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudfori's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kifies of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's mins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engraving!
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Behington on materia'.ifm and immaterialifm
Berchold'«; advice to patriotic traveller#
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
ChaodonN life of Voltaire
De Kofi's travels
Franklin's life and works
G ozier's description ot China
Vlui Dhy's translation of Tacitus
Godvrin on po! tical justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
ICaimes's (ketches of the history of mnn
Liberal opinion*, or the hift«ry oFßenignut
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Plavhoufe dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoule's hifto» y of the bible
Watfon*s life of Philip lid. Hid.
Wonders of nature ancl art, 6 vols.
Wan ley's wonders bf the little world, called
d 2m
ma ft
Walli# on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Rnflla,Poland,See.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of* the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigj*'s advicfc to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&ice of mid-
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
Cleghorn'f. diseases of Minorca
Innes on the 'mufc.es
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qnincy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevcn
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nrcholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the To* glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of arfnies
Haller's phyfi'ologv
Spalanzane's dfflertmtions
London pra<sVice of phyfrc
Bell's forgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
mw&ftf
FOR SALE,
By MATHFW CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery:
Dtfigned 10 exhibit in a new point of view,
its effras on mota/j t indvjlry, and ihe peace of
ocitty. Sonte ta£U and calculations an- ottered
ro prove the labor ofJreemen to be much mote
produdive than that ot Jflaves ; that counirirs are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion a; the
laboring people er»ioy the fruit* of their own
labor ; and hence the nr£k(City concluGon, that
slavery is impolitic as well as unjvjl.
Pk ic* Cents.
February 15.
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
chc public, That from the encouragement
he has received, ffrom several tefpcdfcablc Gentle
men, he is induced ohce more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his feivices to
all those Gentlemen, who can place ennfidene*
in him ; and ht allures those who employ him,
fhat thrir confidence (V)a 11 not he milplaced;—
but it shall be his tonftant endeavor, to pay thle
ftnflelt attention to kheir best interest, in all ne
gociations whateVefr. He has taken the Chamber,
in State-Street, over Mr. David Ivtonfend, Watch
Make.'s Shop. Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of all kinds, are bought and fold} and
where Commiflion Bulinefs of all kinds, will be
tranfafted on leafonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be conftamly exposed lor Lie, on
commiflion.
%• Calh paid for Salem, Providence, and
Portsmouth BILLS.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, o r
New-York, has any Bu/tne/i to tranjafl at Boflon*
in Paper Ncgociaiions, he will be happy to be em
ployed on commiflion.
Bolion, Jan. 24, 1794.
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON the 31ft of lafl! month, the fubferib r ad
drtfL'd a letter to Miffrs. Thomas Pearjalt
S3 merchants in New-York, and inclokd
therein a bank note, No. 445, for twenty dol
lars ; one ditto, No. 151, lor thirty dollars ;
and one ditto, No. 3,866, for twenty dollars.
—He also addrcfled a letter to Mr. Gilbert
Sgltonflall, merchant in New-Yoikf inclofinga
bank bill, No. 148, for fifty dollars, indoifed
on the back thereof in 1 heft words— 44 Pa) the
within to Mr. Gilbert Hunting*
tin.''—He also addreflVd a letter to Mcffis. White
& Warde/l, meichants in New-Yoik, and inclo
sed a bank bill sot ten dollars, and a draft in fa
vor of said White & tVarde/l, which Utters were
put in the Poll-Office on said 31ft January, to
be forwarded to New-Yoik : But by letters re
ceived from the Gentlem«nto whom they were
severally addrefod, the money was robbed
from each letter before delivery.
The Public are requested to endeavor a dej
teftion of the V Mains who commiued the above
robbery. The bill indovfed, I think was a York
bank bill, and some others, one or more was
of the United Sta'es bank, remitted at Philadel
phia. Any person discovering the Thief, and
returning the Money, shall be entitled to fifty
dollais reward.
EBEN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, 14th Feb. 1794. gwjttw
Phi l adi lphi a, F< binary 13, 1794.
PROPOSALS
To p iuiing b> i>uufcription,
AW ik|io he entitled,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Paitifylvaiiia State Trials.
THE want of (uffit-icnt information of the
state trials of Gteat-Britain in the earls
period* of that government is now lamented :
Hi herto there ha'h been but one trial in the
state of Pennsylvania on impeachment :—and
here also it is to be regretted, that, being negi
Itttid at the time, the public are now leU with
out fufficient intormation on the fubjtft of thaf
'rial, it is howevei in this vOrk defined to res
cue what can be collected thereof from fouicea
of indifputaple autfiority, so that the fame thai!
be pnferved from oblivion.
Another impeachment and the fccond is now
deprndmg. An officer is charged by the late
Honfe of Reprefentnnres, who ha h for many
years been largely cor.ftdrd in by th:s state, and
ha;h long b<cn at the head ot the financial de
partment of the sam , and it imports ih-t citi
zen!, 10 know his coi.oufl, and the circomftanccs
which may be broftght foiward on hu trial.
In this woik the Editor will be cartful to
(late the fatts, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers before
the public.—With this viaw—
The following Terms are refpeflfully
Jubmilted to the Public :
I. The Woik ihall be prated in nttavo, with a
good type, on fific p>p;r, and delivered to
fubfenbets at the nfprftive places where the
f-jb'ci iptions. arc taken in,as fooo as the woik
fhail be compleatrd.
11. As no eonjedure can well be made, as to
the lebgth of the prcfi nt trial, the G*e of the
volume cannot be ascertained at this lime
But the pi ice fhail not exreed that of fame of
the la:elj publications in thiacity.
111. It will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental circumstances thai may occur denng
the trial of John Nitholfon, Efquiie, Comp
troller-General of this commonwealth, with
the arguments of counlel oa boih fidea, together
with the articles of impeachment, and the
pleas and replications at large, the fevaral re
foiutions of the two branches of the state Le
g flature, refpefting this impeachment, and
•he final decifien of the SENATE icfpeiling
that officor.
To which will be prefixed, as much as can be
colle&ed from authentic documents, of the im
peachment, trial, and aequital of the laie Francia
Hopkinfon, Esquire, Judge of the Court of
Adimralltv fbr ihe slate of P nnfylvania, during
the late war, never before pnblifhcd.
No money will be icquired before the deli,
very of the book.
Subscription* will be received by Francia
Bai.'ry, No. 116, High-street • Wrigley and Ber
riruan, No. 149, Chefnut-Ureet, and by the d»f
feient bockkners In this city; Jacob Bailey,
Lone after ; Yundtand Patton, Baltimore, and
by the Editor.
EDMUND HOGAS.
N, B. The pricc will be enhanced 10 non.
Übfcnben. f s b. 18. m&wtf
PHILADELPHIA t
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No, 3,
South Fourtfe-Streew
tnw&ftf