»
EVE N I N G ADVERTISER.
[No. 155 of Vol. V.]
To-Morrow Morning,
Will lie landed nt ar Walnut fleet wha f.from
on hnaul th? icbo«ner Madifor., Jas. Par
rock,. nafter, from MALAGA,
iSweet Mountain WINE,
in quarter calks
Soft (helled £lm<wids in lack-J
Muscatel Raisins, in jari and .
BJnoin Dn. in quarter barrels,
A few 7 incH Baft Cables
AMB SflZ !UI BY.
PETER KUHN.
June 2 .
JAMAICA RUM ~
t LANDING at ton's wha«fi,ahove
tlic Drawbridge, out of tie (hip Bacchus
o|>t. Vanned aw, tl I'm AM AIC A, .
FOR SALE BT
PETER BLIGHT!
i M?y 16
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY and FRENCH
BURR STONES,
FOR SALE BY
Gurney and Smith.
May .14- -- d
It is Reqaeiled,
THAT- no peiion wi»l fufp.y any articles
•fair cho Afe of the' New Theatre, without an
order in writing? signed by oatfelves, or' Sain
«e) &nderfon,'i'or iis*
VvIGNtLL & REINAGLE.
dtl"
Mav J O,
All persons who have any dc
nunds upon the New Theatre, are lequell
rditofeiid in their mccount 1 ; to No. in
Arch tf re« % near Eighth street, as loon a;
convenient.
WIGNELL & REIN \GLE.
drf
-May 3".
FOR SALE,
At the STOR.ES of
Jeffe & Robert Wain,
PORT WINE in pipet, hhds: and quar
ter calks
f I.ISBON do. ih pipes and qparier caikt
Souchong and Conga TEAS, in quarter
chclts
A quantity of Li(bon and Cad x SALT
Sotr (h'llcd ALMONDS in bales
"Velvet CORK!", in do.
Huflia MATTS.
June 9 . d
ADVERTISEMENT.
LETTERS on the fubje<Si of the Wash
ington Lottery, being by mistake repeat
tiily adiJ'-eOird to the Coinmaiioners tor the
City of Washington.
Persons concerned are hereby informed,
that all such ftould be addrefied either to
W. Deakina jtm. of Washington, or to the
Subscriber. The commiflioners never hav
ing contemplated any further concern in
this bufijiefs, than in their aflent to receive
the bonds and approve the names of the
managers. The prizes have been paid and
are paying oh demand by W. Deakins,
Washington, Peter Oilman, Boston, and
by the Subscriber.
For the Lottery No. 2, the fccurities al
ready given will be retained by the com
missioners, or transferred by them at their
option to tl;e bank of Columbia ; and the
commissioners will be consulted refpe<3ing
a judicious lind equitable disposition of the
houses to bt built thereby ; their treasury
or the bank of Columbia will receive the
money intended for the National Univef
fity, and they will be consulted in the no
mination of the 24 managers ; but all the;
refponfibihty the general dispo
sition of the tickets, and payment of pri
ces, will reft as in the Hotel Lottery, on
the persons whose names are and may be
hereafter published as assistants to forward
this business with
S. BLODGET.
N. B. Mr. Blodget will be particularly
obliged if those perfon6 who poflefs prizes
yet unpaid, will apply for their money as
<arly as poflTtble.
June 7th. d.
Treasury of the United States.
ALL Persons who are incLincd to dispose of
either.of [he different fpefie's of the Stocks of
the Unir-d Siaoes, are hereby notified, that
Propol'als will be refceived at the Treasurer's
■office No. n Cbefnut ftrcet, at any time an.
til Friday tiie Ijthinrtant at 12 o'clock.
SAMUEL MEREDITH
Agent for the Ttuftees for
the reduction of the Public
Debt.
June 4tb. 179 J.
Iff ®£ f§e Jp>
, For Hamburgh,
"The new Ship
John Vanneman, Mall r.
TO I'nil with u: 1 convenient I'peed, having
tlirte fouc*hs of her already engaged.
For freight or palftge apply to the matter on
board, nr
Th?y wi!4 Ue ready to .receiver their, can.
in a few day r » nnd will carry about
3200 baTreU For terms applv'to
i For Charter,
Lady WaiterftorfT,
BUR X'HEN\ 1733 buire<s, luils('..ft, and u
in conjj)!eut order to take in ;» cat go immedi
ately.
Also for Sale or Charter,
T w o New SHIPS u! riie !>uu!ienot *4° tons
each. For tcriUi apjiv vo
JOSEPH f.ff.lS,
Who has for jale,
Madeira and l Sherry Wines,
of the si it q.UH it>, Bland}, Rctl and iMe
jtf : uirs ba:k f &t. &L'«
For Sale or Charter,
The American /hip
MARGARET,
;Lying at lYLalfey'i wt'« (
„ »*"' Cbefnut ftnet)
iiAhn».;ck y one voyage ; is a Haunch
well fitted ve 111*1, and will carry about
3>op trtireis, or 14,000 'ouih-ls ot grain-
Apply to
BIG AI L y
Gardner Hammond.
TO fail with all convenient fp-ed, hav
ing two thirds of her ca g • a'lvadyjen 'ag
ed. For freight or pailage apply to laid
raafr r on boaui at Ruifel.'* wharf, or the
fubfci ibe'-,
JOHN DONNALDSON.
'June 10. d
Francis Knox, Matter.
LYING at A'lnrtoii'a wharf, and tn fail
in a few days.She is a new veflil, calcu
lated to accommodate paUengers, ajid will
take' f<irne freight. For teniis of which or
paflUge, applv to Captain Knox, or
WHARTON £3" GREENES.
, 6*
June 10
The Ground Plan
IT is with pleasure that trie publilher has
to inform his fubferihen and the public in
genrrat, that the plate ,s now under the
hands of the engraver, and in greater fnr
wardnls than was at firft contemplated. At
the fame time lie begs leave to remind
them, tilt fubferiptron papers are ltiil o
pen at mod of the noted book-stores m the
C'tv ; and that he hopes from the whole
of them to b* enabled to to rn luch a rcl
psctable caialogne «>f name.«, as will do a
credit to the work, as well as atfo'd a
reasonable encouragement to the under
taker.
Those who are dftirous of further in for.
mation are requeifled to call mi
April 14.
d. l. iat
W EDNIiSDAY, June 11, 1794.
THOMAS isf JOHN KETLAND,
Ju c. 3.. i
FOUR FRIENDS,
JESSE & ROBERT IVALN.
June 9. -d
Edward Broock, Matter.
|u«e 2
V/HAKTQN & -LEWIS.
d
June 10
For AMSTERDAM,
OF THE
City and Suburbs
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKKff FROM ACTUAL SUREST.
Benjamin Daviss,
No. 68, Market ilreet.
hi&rthif
AND
RiADKiiIA, r
SHEKIIV, J
PORT, i WlN£Soft!»e firft quality
■ LISBON, & V
,'TENEtfiFKEj
-O d laiijVicaSpirit, Antigua and IVeft lu
da Rom. ,
Ooiuajc, gVe c.> an l Peach Brand-tr*
1 claret and P.irt Wine of a lupcfior qaa-
I lity in tafes- • , - 1
Wi'f: Cyder and Vinegar, in PM>es aod
hMi. , .
Co kt tn d*'e -,Hivannali Sfe<g3r* Boxes,
Philadelphia Iso ter, in Casks and Bottles*
Lo-.idon do. in do, do. f
Philadelphia Ale.and Reer in do. do.
London do in d . do. and
Cyder so barrels arid botties, prepared for
export a tf**" nr n^e,
FOR SALE BY
Benjamin W- Morris,
The corner ,of ■ Dock and Pear streets*
\\ he e he has provided fuitabk (tores and
vaults, for -h reception of ,
WINES, &c.
AVhy hir piropofes to store or dispose of
on commiflion
- Caotams ofvell&s TupivtiVd
wi k h t 1 vof the LIQUORS bottl <1,
and f adores in gertealjnit up*
May 9
JUST PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOBSON,
Sukfeller, at tbs> Stone Jloufe in Second
ft relet, Pfolpdzlfibia t
Volume xi of
ENCYCLOPAEDIA,
OR A /
Dl3ionary of Arts» Sciences, aud Mif
cellatieous Literature,
OK a p!aii erwi.'elv new • tl yWkn-h tlur
different fcienrc; ami arts in
to the fiirm or fyfteim.
This Vqluflne «d»\»aij»« tiff lAiKtck Mtrfa%' '
medicine, metallurgy, m«{?pbvflcs,ilietho- '
dirts, Mexico, mirrolcopr, liiidwifry, Jinrt -
*»»reit variety nf biiigTapSlial -<1 nd mifcel-
I,ine<m< aniclesj illuflrtited with ; niiiettttA
copperplates. ; • : ; , , ,-v • •
• I(3T- The table? vfet,wlikh
were d ii» the tenth voluapje f are
subjoined.to This.. , ,
E'l-ved vo!um« ol' t?i?s work are tioW
publilHed, and the Xllth is in some (or.
wardnsli .■ ■ r,i•. ■ - ■ ;
. O-i the firft of September, 179 J.flp price
offublcViption was incn aftd-ThN dollars
on .i 11 fcrts not taken before t'l)At t Tiij.'.—
Tlir fuhlcTiptiory hftitl onihefr' teiWs,
and il iiny«o|iitireina<iihjrtie:faft:6li.luly
next,the .price jyiji he raiUrt? TEN 4"U»ti
more, on any cnpie£ w.h'cb may belhUlrib
ed for thit period.
%* As many of the fubferibers have ta
ken three or four, See. volume*,
they are earnestly re cj tie lied to take up and
pay for tlie remaining volumes as >t be
comes difficult to complete £he .setts, and
the puUlillier does not holdKim'elf nonud to
make up any setts after the firft day of J uly
next.
Ap-il 22.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-ltreet, New-York
Trl E Subfcribc r inrrndmjr to confin. him-
Iclf entirely to the PUKCHASh and
SALK of STOCKS on COMMISSION,W.g»
leave to off r hii/erviccs to his friend? and
others, in th<? line ol a Stock Broker. Those
who may plcafe to favor h\m wiibtheii bu!i.
nt's, may depend upon having it
wii h the uimoft ftd» tuy and d i fp.il ch.
Orders from Phtladtlphia, Bolton, or any
othi'r pait of the United Stares, will be
flri£Wy attended to.
LEONARD BLEEC-KER.
m&thtf
JUST PUBLISHED,
« y
MATHEW CAREY,
118, MarketJlreeC,
Price IS tent 3,
THE
Catechism of Man ;
Pointing nut f* oin found principles, ai d
acknowledged the Rights and Du
ties of every Rational Being,
A'n I th^reforeHccinrn? l>eca«ife
I you tlie tritth*? G.tl. iv ; *6
Njw a<i thfffc thing* happened -unto thjiji
fur eJri)nn>'«**,mUt they - »s;e- written for
• ,n:)ttij v*hoot Nhg «jj<U ot*
jAfccoihe.
Nt*? tuUi&siw'
V * '
_ it
tu&f2ni
by
nv&rt!'.6w.
felfe
[Whole No. 550.]
j." oreigii Intelligence.
national convention.
' O Germinal, March 30.
Barrere announced, that the commit
tee' of public fafcty was engaged in the
purification of the conllitu.ted authorities.
C'.ti/en Gaftcau> lie next stated, had jult
received the appointment of National
A S«it of Paris, in the Head of Lullicr,
who had been put under arrest., In the
mi/n icipality, Chaumette, 11 chert, and
Real, iind been succeeded hy Citizens
Piiyv.n, Moinne, and Lubin. The com
mittee bad appie'ncnded four members of
tihe Girondists ; and had depiived levcjal
otheisof the;r functions, replacing them
by metubcrs of the commune, diftingtiifh
ed by their attachment to the Nation:!
Ivepreitiitau'on. Barrere concluded by
pblerviiiT ihat the committee of thefedH-
O'l of Marat, de:.011 need by the public
voice, had been in the fame way terrene*
rated. ; "
Barrjr? next considered the actual ftatc
of Paris ; and obf-ived 11tat it never con
tained so many niifcreants and traitors a:
at present. Ail the villains of Europe
k-erned to have m-.ide it the it rendezvous ;
but they were every where watched, and
never did the inhabitants of that city, the
mother and guardian of Liberty, (hew
themfclves more devoted to the National
Reprefentalion, and more inimical to trai
tors. Soon would it be impossible for
any enemy of Liberty ta iem:«n there
with impunity ; and the very r:ir of Paris
would be fatally infectious to all the fup
poiters of tyrants. Ihe Revolutionary
I übunal continued to 11■ on the accompli
ces of the confederacy, aud would, in a
few days, fend several of the criminals to
the fcaffold.
This conspiracy, re fumed B?.rrere,
was connedled with religious difturbatlces;
to excite which an effort was made to
destroy every moral principle, and to in
culcate atheistical dottrines, through the
extravagant enterprizes of .Clootz, Chau
ractte» Hebert, &c. asfainft tile liberty of
worlhip. lli,. committee is employed in
an extensive plan of regeneration, the re
sult of-which willbe at once tobanilh im
morality and prejudices, fuperftttion and
atheism ; and to found the Republic on
good principles and morals.
This report of Barrere was followed by
a decree, approving of the measures of
the Committee.
The Minister of Maiine, announced a
great number of prizes, three of which
were Engliih (hips laden with wine, Bcc.
Si had been carried into Brest on the 34th.
Three others had on the fame dav been
carried into Rochefort, and were bound
from Englftnd to Bilbo a, with cargoes of
oil, meal, lalt-fifh, rice, sugar, cocoa,
&c " 4 kound to Rome, had been
carried into Villa I'"ranca in the country o£
Nice.
UNITED STATES.
COLUMBIA, (S. C.) May 1 3 .
.At a circu it coiirti ;irt»tfer theiutthorfrr
oftheU of A meiica,- -nriil id'
tHis-iovwj the 12<h fuJsy-;
,t- - ij , ,;**
BHli of indiamewt- tret*"; pwfarta' if.
gaitfft; .-Gobi Stephen ftriyton
John Hamilton, tor entering into th&-ftri"
% French Republic, jind at-
thft Ciaeen»;,4rf ft,
€ntar,»Wo; th? &,J
v S!f , A . iV/fflgWßT' l «t iMUciairjup
"g®! l )!.' We former, and 110 bill affamft tbc
latter. " •
A d vert i feme lit.
THK t elation; <>l Mr Thomas'Curti*
formerly of Ellicof's U n , e r Mill* a „d
lately of the Oty of Wafhing'ou, dec a'V
arc defiled to apply a„d have hlsaffa.rs fell
tied.
fit* of WalWfclon, April si, ,764.
• v: - kiioctl<4wTor the Galstti of the United St at fa.
t am surprised Mr. Fenno, that a pa- j
per, intended as you profefs yew's to be, |
for the information of the citizens of the
United States, should have been so
long deficient in defining terms Ynadc use
of in ail the papers in the country,
to which we have no meaning annex
ed that we can depend on.—The terms
Democrat and Democracy—-Aiiilocrat
aod Aristocracy for inltance, have been
Jianded about with odium annexed to each
by different parties,who have endeavored
to o-ain the ears and credit of the citizens;
vou hate Certainly been deficient in your
duty as a public advertiser, in not infotm
in;i your c.ilio'mers wherein consists the
diffe'. once of these hard words ; and left
you (hould continue thus negligent I fend
you what I can collect from my small read
ing on the fubjeft.
Democracy, is derived from ttao Greek
words, Demos, fignifying the people at
large • and Crateia, fignifying Govern
merit ; hence Demotrateia, or as we write
it, democracy, fignifies a government ex
ercised by the whole people.—Aristocracy
in like manner, is derived from two Greek
words, Ariitos, fignifying the bejl; and
Crateia, .Government as above ; hence Ari
stocracy is a government exercised by the
b.jl men among the people. This was the
cafe among the ancients ; when in the
middle ages, the rich and the nobles, by
thsir wealth and power, acqmred an influ
ence over the operations of government,
a {Turned the names of the bejl, and ekercifed
feudal tyranny. Aristocrats were odious
to the commonality, and the nobles be
came objects of teiror and deflation :
from their excess in the abuse of power,
arose democracy. When the number of the
whole community was so moderate as to
admit of their meeting together and tak
ing the affairs of their nation into their
consideration, there was certainly the bell
form of government ; but the happiness
resulting front thus combining the wisdom
of a whole community soon encreafed it
by natural population or the accession of
foreigners, so much as to render the meet
ing of the whole periple expensive, t'ouble
fofflt, and in some instances dangerous.
Hence naturally arose the idea of a Re
presentative Republic, which is in fact a
Democracy, because the whole people elect
their representatives to express their will
in the different departments of govern
ment ; but it ought always to be an Ari-
Jiocracy, where the will of the people is
well exeicifcd ; because they ought to cleft
their be/I men to serve them in the highest
offices of state—and we trust this has been
the cafe in the United States:—For, we
fee a Washington thus ele&ed unani
mously by the whole people, at the head
of the Executive ■, —an Adams his fccond,
and at the head of the Senate ; Senators
and Mcmbersofthe Representative branch,
among whom it would be improper to
make diilinttions, because we suppose that
the will of the whole people conltitutional
ly exercised, has feledted the lejl men with
in their knowledge, in whom tj vest the
high and sovereign powers of the United
States—lf this be the cafe, and certainly
it ought to be such, we have no light to
deny that the United States are governed
by an Arijlocracy, that is by the bejl men,
fele&ed in the different election diitrifts,
by tie governed, and representing their will
in all things which shall come before
the executive and legislative departments ;
Under this idea, well underjlood, our rulers
ought not -to be terrified with the popular
clamor of Arijlocrats and Aristocracy ; for
if ever a people were under such a govern
ment, the United States certainly claim
the pre-eminence of a Real Ari/locretcy ;
that is, a government by the bcjl men among
them, fe pa rated from the people only be
cause of their better ftnifs to fulfill the du
ties imposed on them by their appoint
ments.
But what (hall we fay of the people,
who Ailing themselves Democrats are at
tempting to leap into the saddle, and of
their own choice to ifurp the powers not
delegated to them by the whole people ?
Mr. Fenno, I donotchufeto answer this
quefUun at present, I (hall reserve some of
my sentiments on this fnbjeft to a future
paper, but I will just hint, that I think
them the true and odious Arijlocrats, from
thefo!low:ng chaia&eriftic marks:
lft. They chose themfdves in the be
ginning', and did not originate from the
peop'e at largt, as all legal governments
ought to do.
2d. They will rot fuffer the people, or
any part of them to fend representatives
amongll them ; one of their fundamental
rules being, that a great majority of their
gjodfeives ftiali be ntCefl'ary to the induaion
of every member. -•
Having never corafponded with you
before, I am yet to leain what reception
you will give to my fir it attempt ; I (hell
hereafter judge of the propriety of fending
you some further observations on political
fubjefis. A CITIZEN.
Lancajler County, June 4, 1794-
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
BRUSSELS, April 13.
Our generals, as well as thole of the
enemy, appear to have waited the presence
of the Emperor, to begin their operati
ons.
The French, under the command of
general Pichegru, continue to form a vast
camp near Cambray. All their forces are
colle&ed in that point with the utmofl ac
tivity, and they have taken the greater
part of the garrisons, excepting only those
which are mod strongly threatened by the
allies, lle-inforcements are hourly arriv
ing at Cambray, from every part of France,
amongst the latter, has been a body of
cavalry, to the amount of zoo men, con
fiding of a regiment of carabineers, of the
hussars of Chamborant, and a corps of
chasseurs.
As to the grand combined army, Under
the prince of Cobourg, it is (till concen
tered beyond Valenciennes and Quefnoy.
The greater part of the forces in the pio
vince of Tournay arc marching with the
utmost diligence to that quarter ; these
circumstances cause it to be believed that
a general and decisive action may daily be
expected.
On the 6th inft. a large body of the
Conventional troops, advanced from Lisle,
to reconnoitre our politions between the
town and Tournay. They "advanced to
Baifienna, within two leagues of the lat
ter place, and a conflict in which
the dragoons of Latuiir greatly ditlin
guifhed themselves. The French, how
ever, accomplished their objedf, and re
tired in good order.
April 15.
His majefly the empetor and king quit
ted this city, yesterday morning to repair
to the army. During his Ihort stay heie
he gave the people the molt affe&ing proofs
of his love, receiving the petitions of the
lowed of his fubjefts, and walked atjlongft
them in the Park and other places, unat
tended by any guards. • His majesty paid
frequent visits to the hospitals, especially
the military ones, to fee that the soldiers
were properly attended to, and visiting
every bed, consoling the invalid warriors
for their refpeftive misfortuns. In fine,
he conduced himfelf in such a manner as
to gain universal love, and his departure
has occasioned the deepest reget.
MANHEIM, April 8.
We learn that the lines drawn by tTie
French at Germerftieim are entirely finish
ed, together with the entrenchment? which
they are raising on the heights frora New
ftadt to Weiffembourg. At Spire they
have destroyed all the buildings belonging
to the clergy, and mean to destroy the ca
thedral, the top of which has already been
'pulled down.
VIENNA, April 2.
A kind of Jacobin Club having been
held in this city, the members of it have
been tried and are now undergoing their
punillimeur. These reformers have been
for the mo ft part sentenced to a public
whipping, and a year's imptifonment, at
the end of which time they are to be ba
nished. Some priells arc iufpe&ed of be
ing concerned with the Club.
VALENCIENNES, April 14. .
" This day arrived here his imperial
majesty the emperor, and was received
with the most unequivocal demonftratioris
of loyalty and love. The whole town is
to be illuminated to night, and resounds
every where with the loudest acclamations
of " long live Francis 11. our dearly be
loved Sovereign." To-morrow if the
weather permits, the emperor is to review
that part of the ai-my which is already en
camped ; and next Thursday or Friday
wr opeiations will begin. * ,
"The Carmagnols are encamped be
tween Landrecy and Guise, between 80
and lco,ooo inen strong. As our grand
army is fupericr to theiPs not only in overy
military accompllflitnent, but aifo (which
has never yet been the cafe) in numbers ;
we wt'Srtain the mod confident hopes, tnat
unleft the Republicans should think pro
per to avoid a battle, one of the compleat
eft victories rruilt crown the attack, which
in all probability before the end of this
week will be made againlt them."
PARIS, April 13.
Letters from Strasbourg, read in the
Jacobin Club, speak of an advantage ob
tained over the enemy in the territory of
Deux Ponts, by which the Republic had
acquired cattle, warlike fiores, and 800
gold medals with the effigy of Capet. —
The vigorous measures of Gen. Dieche,
m;de the Aristocrats and Batiditti on the
other fide the Rhine tremble. There
was every profpeft of a fruitful hal
ve ft.
LONDON, April 14 —19.
The Lords having adjourned on the
last day the Slave trade bill was to have
come on, without making any order re
fpe&ing that business, it of course drops
unless some Pcci iTiall formally move its
revival.
The accounts brought by yesterday's
mails aie not deciiive refpedling the ope
rations of the PrufTian troops, but only
confirm their having received orders from
Berlin to halt until further notice*
There is not the leait appearance of
any negociation 011 the itapis sot a peace
at preftnt.
Since the Polish General Ivofciusco's
entranceinto Cracaw, he has taken an in
ventory of the gold and lilver in the
churches and royal castles; his revolu
tionary ,tribunal consists of 14 membeis;
since then the Confiitution of the ift
ps May, 1791, has been solemnly ac-<
knowledged by oath in the church of Ma
rienborn 1 tjx* proctflion went there at
tended by military music.
The Universal, publiilied from this
quarter enjoins the hig'hcit refpedt fcr
the Austrian territory ; and though the
Polish reformers have feize3 some Impe
rial magazines ; they have sent a very ci
vil mefTage to the Auilrian commandants,
a(Turing them of an an ample indemnifi
cation ; they are said to be furnilhed with
money from France.
The revolutionary spirit has spread in-,
to several other parts of the Republic ;
where many of the disbanded regiments
have risen in arm:'. The Caitcllan Rimie
fwyfky, was tried by the Revolutionary
Tribunal at Cracaw, and hanged in the
market-place on the fame day.
Bodies of Ruffians and Prussians, to
the amount of 25,000, men being on
their maichto Cracaw, where the malcon
tents have not above 6 or 7000 men bad
ly provided with artillery, their difperiion
was daily expected. Several notes have
passed between the Permanent Council,
and the Ptuffiau Minister, 011 the subject
of difturbanccs, and a Court is opened to
try offenders as fall as they are appre
hended.
There is a gentleman in town who was
formerly Secretary to General Washing
ton, and left Pans no longer ago than the
I ith inft. He wag witness to the execu
tion of Danton, slnd the other confpira
torsj and iayf, th?re was nq kind of tu
mult during the ceremony. Paris is now
tolerably well supplied with provisions ;
and it appears, that the fleet of veflels
which lately caused an alarm for the fafe
ty of. Jersey was only a very large fleet
of coaltiog veflels, carrying provisions for
the supply of Paris. About 10,000 ca
valry set out, ou their march from Paris
on the 9th instant to reinforce the North-
era army.
However obnoxious Dr. Piieillcy's po
litical and religious tenets may be, Go
vernment has Ihowii so little resentment
upon account of them, and so much re
fped for his talents as a Philosopher, that
we are allured, Lord Hawkelbury has
granted a prcteaion to the (hip in which
the Doctor fails, in cafe Hie should meet
with any of the Algerine corsairs.
The King of Pinfiia, to JfaveTiimfelf
from tlie further censure of every ingenu
ous mind, has transferred M. de la Fay
ette and M. de Maubourg -to an Aullrian
dungeon ; and fortius ast he jultifics ht'm
felf by faying, that they were originally
the prifoiters of the Emperor; M. de
Lameth and M. de Pufy are dill i n Pu,f
fia, hut whether closely confined or re
maining an account of their health bein-v
demoifheil, we cannot fay.
A Congress of all the Italian States
is opened at Milan, to concert meafur-es
for the common defence ; all the deputies
had arrived except the Neapolitan Mini!
ter ; their object is the,railing an army oi
40,CC0 men ; Venice icfufts to join thii
coalition, and Parma will not grant an«
contribution towards the war.
The Polilh Biigade of Madalinflci, haa
escaped the clutches of the Ruffians, and
forced its way into the Fitffian t'trr'tort,
lor the purpose of serving there. The Ruf
fian Carabineers arrived too late to cut off
their retreat.
We have great reafen to doubt the
truth of the report of the French fleet,
being at fca ; as none of our cruif.u
have seen or heard of arijr such circum
stance.
On account of some extraordinary na
vfol preparation now making at Dunkirk,
the following fleet has been afiembled iu'
the Downs, to be ready soT any enter,
gency.
, Guns.
Leopard, 50 Admiral Peyton.
Thunder, 74 Capt. Eert;e,
Arrogant, 74 Capt. Whitfhed,
Pallas, 36 Capt. Bentick,
Aurora, 32 Capt. EfEngton,
Daphae, 20 Capt. Sotheiby,
Serpent, 16 Capt. Ixe,
Fsrrett, • 14 Capt. Nowall,
Falcon, 14 Capt. Baflptr,
Amphitrlte armed ffiip 20, Capt. Bow-
y r*
The Echo, Nicol, from Jamaica to
New-York is loft in the Gu'ph of Florida.
HOUSE OF COMMONS.
French Co ps B'lU.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer mov r
ed the order of the day, for the second
reading of the French corps bill, winch
enables the fubjt 6ls of France to enlist as
foldiets jn regiments to fevve upon the
continent of Euiopf, and other parts,
and which empowers his Majefly to grant
cominiffions to French fubje&s.
After feme debate,
The queftioti was then put, and the
house divided—The numbers were,
For the second reading, 105
Againlt it, - 21
Majority, 84
The bill \v;:s rerd a second time, and
committed for Monday ntxt.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Seflion of the 26th Germinal, (15 April.)
Barrere. Since the last victories of the
Republic ovej the tyrants,-we have felt
the importance of the conqutft-of Oiteig
lia, a port in tTie Mediterranean, from
■whence the tyrant of §ardinia interrupted
our trade and infuhed ojir navy.
Grtat many obllacles were to be over
come in erdcr to artive at Onciglia. It
was neceffarjrtd pass through.ths territory
of Genoa. they, nppofe4 us with
diplomatic arguments. But thip webb of
lies and cunning has to difapppar before
the eternal rights ofnationc, and before
the imperious wants of liberty. :
The committee have done iheir duty
in pafiing a refutation on the 19th Veil
tofe, with refpedt to the conquest of
Oneiglia, the plan of the marrh of the
aimy of Italy was formed and Ihe execu
tion entrusted to the firmnefs of those re
preftntat:ve3 who had led the troops to
tlie recapture of Toulon.
Previous to their march th«y iiTued a
proclamation worthy of the Ficneh pec
ple and of the National Convention, and
gave thereby to our politics the; chara&er
of the maj?;lv of the people, snd of its
impartial und inflexible juftiee.
The following they write us from Oneg
liaon the 10th Germinal (April 8.) The
Republic lives upon victories i you may
announce to her the capture <>!' Oneglia,
the principal communication ot the Saidi
nian tyrant with Sardinia : thi Republi
cans have performed this with that con*
rage and energy which makes all Europe
tremble : The blood of the ff'ldiers of li
berty has been spared : We had not one
killed ; and only a few (lightly wounded.
The aiti'ery had not time to fend their
thunderiipoii the Brigands i f Oneiglia;
but thev have done wondu s of courage
and ability in dragging t heir cannon on
almofft inaccessible mountain}.
Italy (hall inform Europe of the vir
tues as wc. Il 33 of the vjlour < f the armies
of the Republic : We were obliged for a
n • •
ihon t time to occupy part of the territory
of Genoa : it belongs to the people who
inhabit it to make known to the vrorld
the fubliine conduit of the L'terch Repub
licans : they will tvil yo-.i, thr.t the dflr
firndersot their country, fatigued, and do
firous of r.iting themfelv 's, did not dare
p♦
to spoil the green herbage which invited
them to fit down ; they will.tell you, that
marching under orange trees, and iuffer
ing an extrerfie thivft, the foldierp refpeft
ed even the leaf of this tree ; they will
tell you, that some of them having inad
vertently la;d down on some leaves which
they took to be. useless, offered to pay for
them as soon as they were informed by
the proprietor of their value.
j The Piedmontefe tyrant certainly pas-
Jes. very bad nights, and prepares to emi
grate from his kingdom, which is much
curtailed. We fliall end to vou a (tate
ment of the effects found in Oijeglia. We
found 12 pieces of cannon which the ene
my had not had time to spike. .
The general of division, Mouret, who
commanded the column on the right of
the troops of the Republic in the expedi
tion against Oneglia, writes under the
lame date, that he. had got pofTeflion
thereof on the preceding evening, April 7.
It is thus, added Barrere, that the in
jury done to the French commerce is re
paired :. and that our ports of Nice and
Ville Franche will enjoy greater tranqui
lity ; the subsidized inclofure of the Court
of T Win is at an end,, and the glorious
prospect of a brilliant campaign opens
upon the arms of the Republic.
Besides these fuccefTes on the Med iter,
ranean, other? have beep obtained on the
Ocean. The marine of the Republic con
tinues to keep the commerce of the Eng
h(h, Dutch and Spaniards in a Hate of
arreflatio". The Mijiifter of the marine
has jull now informed us, that the said
three nations have loft 21 vefl'els, fix where
of were burnt, three wrecked 011 our
coaits, one foundered, and eleven have
been brought into our ports.
Levafieur, observed that the army of
Italy had religiously executed the decree
of the Convention, which makes morality
and jnilice the order of the day ; he there
fore moved that it (honld be declared that
it had well deferred of their country.
Robespierre fraonded the motion, per
suaded that the Contention,having order
ed such decimations to be made for the
fake of vi&ories, would be more eager to
make it for the fake of virtue.
PHILADELPHIA,
JUNE 11.
From a Correfpomicnt.
Mr. Monroe's apologist, in yfifterday's
General Advertiler, makes this dittinftion
and the only dittinftion between the cafe
of Mr. j. and that of Mr. M. to conlifl
in this, that the former continues to hold
his office of Chief Justice, whereas the
latter has refigncd his feat as Senator.
But this diflinttion can only apply to
a ptriotl subsequent to their refpcclive ap
pointments, and does not derogate from the
force of the ftriftures on M's inconlilten
ciesj the incompatibility, if any, fubfilt
ed in both cases with equal validity at the
time of appointment. Mr. M. objected to
Mr. j's appointment, as being then Chief
Justice ; Was not Mr. M. Senator when
Be was appointed Minister ?
How does the apologifl labor to ex
tricate his friend from the dilemma to
which he has been reduced ? Why, by the
following curious obfervati'on, " The ob
jection to Mr. J. in the Senate upon the
ground of the confutation was probably made
in the belief or intimation of his friends
that he meant not to resign his judicial
office." Ought a member of such a dig
nified body as the Senate of the United
States, to ast merely on probabilities and
intimations ? Did Mr. J. himfelf declare
previously to his appointment, that he
would not resign his Chief Jullicefhip ?
Could he, before his appointment declare
it ? Would not such a declaration have
been inconfiflent with the manliness of
Lis character Would it not have been
construed into a solicitation for an cmbaf
fy, which it is well known he accepted
with great reluctance, and from a patriotic
fente of duty to his country at a momen
tous and critical junftnre ?
The objection, fays the apologifl, on
the ground of the conftitation arose from
a probability and an intimation. Was it
Mr. M's practice to make conflitutional
objections on such flimfy foundations ?—
Bat the following reasoning is com In live,
and I defy Mr. M. and a holt of apologilts
to get over it.
Either the objedtiftni cn the ground of
the conjl'uul'ion as it is called, applied to
the period when Mr. J. was nominated,
irto a period) subsequent to his appoint
ment.
If to the foimer, then the objection on
the score cf constitutional incompatibility,
was as valid against Mr. M. as Mr. J. If
the obje&.iou applies to the period subse
quent to his appointment and there cxiits
a conjiitutional incompatibility, then Mr. J.
must be deemed no longer Chief Justice,
for his acceptance of the office, of, M
ini fter vacates his ojjice as Chief JuJlice.
Now I leave Mr. M's apologist to make
his ele&ion ; if he applies the confHtu
tional objection to the former, it invali
dates his own appointment; if to the lat
ter, then all the idle, clamor about Mr.
J. is ridiculous—and Mr. M. and his
friends must resort to new grounds of at
tack on his appointment.
June 10.
By this Day's Mail.
VIENNA, March 29.
All thi travellers who come from Tur
key represent that country as gieitly
in want of corn, which will be no small
embarrassment to the carryirig on of a war
with Russia, and it is hoped, n&twith
llanding the preparations making at. Bel
grade and elfewiiere, that a rupture will,
be avoided. Our Court, however, in or
der to be prepared again!!; all events, are
reinforcing the frontier garrisons, "and re
pairing all the fcrtrefles towards Semliii.
1 he fame accounts from Constantinople
add, that the people continually (hew their
discontent in their usual way, by feitinj
fire to the town in different places. On
the 24th of February the large magazine
of corn was nearly in flames, but that ca
lamity was happily prevented. The Ja
nifTaries have daily quarrels with the Alia
tic troops, of whom there are 40,000 in
Constantinople, learning the new tatties ;
in these quarrels there is generally blood
spilt.
HANOVER, March 29.
On the 26th of this month the second
division of the flying artillery set off from
this city for the armies,.which compleats
the number of the troops destined for
them. The troops in the low Countries
are as follow: Eight regiments of caval
ry, 27 battalions of infantry, two two di
visions of flying artillery, with trains, two
divisions of heavy artillery, with park
trains and reserve, and the corps of engi
neers, pioneers, and pontonnicrs, forming
in the whole 26,400 irien.
PARIS, April 7.
LIST OF PRIZES.
Entered at l'Orient, from the 9th to
the 10th current, namely :—The Lion,
of 180 tons, from .London, loaded with
different forts of merchatinize, taken by
the trigate la Fraternite. A brig, of
Guernsey, of 130 tons, taken by the cut
ter Le Courier. The brig Nancy, of
130 tons, from England, bound for St.
Seballian, with a cargo of grain, taken
by the corvette Le Robufle. The Eng.
!ilh (loop, Friendship, bound for St. Se
bastian with a cargo us grain, taken by
Le Robufte. The Anne-Elizabeth, of
Amsterdam, bound for St. Sebastian, of
180 tons, loaded with wheat, taken by
the corvette la Diligence. A Spanish
brig, La Noftra Signora Delcarme, of 60
tons, loaded with merchandize. A Dutch
(hip of 300 tons, from Spain, with a
cargo for England, of 1650 bales of
Spanish wool, 13 bales of indigo, &c.
Three other prizes have also been carried
into l'Orient, but the names or their car
goes are not yet known.
Note—The fix firft prizes have alrea
dy been announced to the National Con
vention.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Sitting of April 7.
The fitting opened with several addres
ses from the different societies, congratu
lating it on the fupprefiion of the Execu-
tivc Council. ■
" It is necefiary that our armies should
conquer, (fays Barrere, in the name of
the Committee of Public Safety.) To
do so, our armies must be well ftipplied ;
they are in want of horses, mules and car
riages.
Legendre and Bourdon de I'Olfe de
clared, that they had received letters, in
viting them to go to the Convention with
piltols, in order to aflafilnate two Depu
ties, which were supposed to mean Robel
pierre and St. Just.
LONDON, A
uwiN, t )ril 17,
The exchange of the French and Pail
' a 'l (Prisoners did not aCtu illy take plao
ill.the 6th inft. whca Kuifcl was declarer,
a neutral plaee., solely for the performance
of that business. The number of the
French exchanged was 160 officers, and
7,300 privates.
The preliminaries of a Convention, in
which the king of Piuffia, who has with
drawn himfelfas a party from the present
war, engages as an auxiliary to fuinifh a
certain number ot men, luve been signed
at the Hague by the liiitiih, Prufiian and
Dutch rjnnifters.
When the Convention ltfelf fnall have
been signed and received in London,
whicli may be soon expedled, Mr. Pitt
will deliver a meflage , from his Majelly,
to the House of Commons on the fubjett.
We have not yet been able to Icarn how
many hundred thousand pounds areto.be
paid annually by Bi itain to this potent and
diiinteretted ally.
A. B.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
days
Ship Pallas, Crawfoid, St. Andcro
Biig Mercury, King, St. Croix 2 2
Maria, Weeks, Havannah 22
T,ie Ship Pallas was boarded, on the
21 it April, by a French . frigate of 44
*guns, in company with another of 36.
They said they had taken a number of
velTels in their cruize ; treated Captain
Crawford with politeness, and offered any
necefl'aries he stood in need of.
The brig Mercury ,vas boarded, on
Wednesday last, by a Britilh privateer brig
of 16 guns.
A Heat from Cork lately arrived at
Barbadoes;
C'apt. Welsh informs, that there were
19 piivateers under French commiflions in
the harbor of Charlellon, on the 3 Ift ult.
and five fitting out.
The Sanfpnriel had just arrived with a
Spanifli ship of 14 guns, from the Ha
vannah bound to Cadiz, and ladeir with
1,700 boxes of sugar, and a brig from
Curacoa bound to Amlterdam. A large
English (hip, with 300 hoglheads of su
gar and 200 puncheons of rum, bouud
trom Jamaica to was captured
and sent into Savannah by the Point Pe
tre, Captain I albot, who engaged, in
company with another privateer, a large
Dutch ship from Curacoa bound to Am
lterdam—She it ruck after a fevete action
of t\v> hours, having fix men killed and
her ammunition expended. Capt. Talbot
was obliged to abandon the prize, soon af
ter he took her, to a Dutch frigate. She
had 17 Ihot through her cabin.
Ihe St. Joseph, a French privateer
lately taken by the Flying Filh, was ret'a
kei{ by the Sans Pareil and sent into
Charlellon.
Capt. Bliss informs, that he left at
Bri'ftol, a brig belonging to Bolton, an
Englilh brig, called the Brothers, was to
fail for Philadelphia in 3 days after he left
Bristol. The 1 ith ult. in lat. 45, 14,
long. 40, he spoke the schooner Sally,
Salisbury, from Bolton, bound to New
foundland, 3 whale-filhing, out 21 days,
the 22d, in lat. 41, 56, long. 40, he
was boarded by the schooner Experiment,
of 16 guns, Capt. Morgan of Bermuda
on a cruize.
Capt. Crawford the 25th May, in lat.
38, 28, long. 59, spoke the (hip Wafdon
of London, from Penfecola, out 35 days,
bound to iyartmouth —fame day, spoke
the brig Eftra Maria, Capt. Trefdcll of
Baltimore, from Lisbon, out 58 days
the id: inlt. in lat 38, 12, 71. spoke the
Ihip Hancock of Bolton, bound to Bal
timore from Gottenburg,out 70 days; the
4th, spoke the schooner Induitry, from
Philadelphia, out 4 days, bound to the
Welt-Indies.
The brig Newton De Costa, from St.
Croix, failed in company with the brig
Fair Hebe, M'Kever—fame morning
they failed, Capt. De Costa, saw an
English frigate at a small distance, board
the Fair Hebe—the (loop Xenney, was
to fail in a few houis, for this poit the
brig William Pen nock, Holliday, failed a
few days before him.Sfor Philadelphia ; the
4th Inft. he spoke the (hip Enterprize,
Jones, of Philadelphia, oiit a few days,
bound for Hifpaniola.
Arrived at ■ Netiv. Tcri.
Brig Sally, Smith,
Brothers, Guiiher,
Juno, Brainard,
Minerva, Scoyel,
Schr. liOj-c, Stanwood,
ri{ I"
ARRIVED,
St. Kitts
Edentoii
Chaj;lefton
Jamaica
\V r i9ufigton
Hannah, Allen, ■■ George Town
4 Walhington*, Raymond, Antigua
Betsey, Gilbert, Jamaica
Sully, Howland, do.
Sarah & Lucretia, White, Faulkland ■
Ifiands
Sally, Burke, Turks-J (land
Manilla, Spengtr, Wilmington, N. C.
Harmony, Robinet, WiliAington, Del.
Earl, Morton, Si. Bartholomew*
Sally, Crawford, 1"d/nton
Sloop Friendlhip, Price, Jeremie
Planter, C.rpenter, Edenton
Charles, Potter, Jamaica
Matfey, Avery, . Savannah
Swift, Etheridge, Edenton
fanny, CoggeOiall, •• S.Carolina
The following article concludes the " Report
of the Committee * appointed (o examine
into the state of the Treasury Dep&rtmer.i
made to the House of Ueprelentatives of
the United States, ontheaadday of Mav
1 794-"
At the Reqvejl of the Secretary of tie Trea
sury, tls committee report :
That it appears from the affidavits of the
Caihier, and i'everaL officers of the Bank of
the United States, and of several of the Di
rectors, the Calhitrand other officers of the
Bank of New-York, that the Secretary of
the Treasury- never has, either-directly or
indirectly, fcr h ; .mfelf or any other perfonj
procured any difcoittyt or- credit from either
of tne laid banks, upon the balls ot any pub
lic monies which, at any time, have been
deposited therein under his direction : And
the Cotnmittee are fatisfied that no monies
of the United States, whether before or af
ter they have paiTed .to the credit of the
l'reafurtr, lave ever been directly or indi
rectly used lor, or applied to any purposes*
but those ot the government: except, so far
as all monies depoliced in a Bank are con
cerned in the general operations thereof.
* Tb:s committee. confijtei of fifteen mem
bers, being one for each State,
t u it i on:
WILLIAM FINCH oi the New Thea
tr., bjgs leave to jn!ijrm his Friends and
the Pholic, tl.at he h.is removed from the
couurtif Eighth ai d streets to No.
63, north Eighth between Arch and Race
'_f r ® e ' 5 » a "d cl'.at he continues togive.le
ft uftimmn the French and lEoglilh Lan
ftuages as ijfual, as alfq theClaffics. Ha
iakei this opportunity of" expreifing his ac
knowledgements tor ths very liberal en.
c<iu ag«rnent.he ha-s experienced,, & conti
nuati' n oi whjcli be begs.ledvve to t'ulitit.
. N. B. mniUt. oiis from either languages
eorrtrt y executed. '
NEW THEATRE.
Mrs. Whitlock's Night.
this evening,
June ii.
Will be Presented,
A TRAGEDY, called the
Mourni?ig Bride.
Manuel, Mr< Whitlock
Ofmyn, Mr. Fennell
Gonzalez, Mr. Green
a ; c ' a ' , Mr. Wignell
o » Mr. Cleveland
f e '5 z ' Mr. Francis
im > Mr. Harwood
Alo " zo ' . Mr. Warrell
Almeria, Mrs- Morris
f ara > Mrs Whitlock
Ltonora ' Mrs Francis
In Ast the firft,
The Triumphal Entry tf Manuel,
and Procession of Zara into Grenada.
End of the Play, The PASSIONS, an
, c » b y Collins will be recited bv Mrs
Whitlock. 1
End of the Tragedy,
A Scots Pajloral Dance,
(Compel'd by Mr. Franciskall'd The
CALEDONIAN FROLIC.
In winch will be introduced a Highland
■ f77 y Fraccis ' Miss Wdknis,
and Airs De Marque.
To which will be added,
A Comedy in two Aft*, called
Three Weeks after Mar Hate.
Tiru OR '
What we mull all tome to.
Sir Charles Racket. Mr Chahnert
f rU *p. Mr. Bates
Lo.dace, M r . Mo.etoa
Mr Cleveland
Servant, Mr. j. Barley
Lady Racket, Mis Whitlock
Mrs Drugget, Mrs Rowfon
, . l ' c )> Mrs Francis
X" n ' t y. Mrs Shaw
On Friday the Tragedy of fULIA ■
Or, The ITALIAN LOVER— with
a New l'arce in 2 A£ts, written by a chi
ve o'Philadelphia,called the EMBAR
GO ; or " Every on; his own Otinion"
For the Benefit of Mr. FINCpi.
Mr. and M.-s FRANCIS's Ni-ht wll
be ©a MgnSavl
1Philadelphia, March, i 1794-
jfbST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market Jlreet,
i. E FIKST VOLUME Of A NEW
SYSTEM OB:
Modern Geography z
OR. A
Geographical, Hijlorical, ana
Commercial Grammar;
A'id p efei.it state of the feve« al
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CUtIT AINl'N&f
I. Th** figuues, motion?, and distances of
the pla»iets,Hccordintr to the New tonian fyi
tem and the latest oblervations.
2. A general v ew off the earth,eonfidered
is a planet; with leveraljufefui geographical
definitions, and problems;
3 The g and divisions of the globe into
land a-id watery continent* and islands.
4. The situation and extent of empires,
kingdoms, and colonies.
5 Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, metals, minerals, natural enri
dfities,feas,ri vers,bay
aud lakes.
6. The birds and beads peculiar to each
count r.\\
7. Observations on the changes that have
been any where observed upon the face of
nature iince the inoft periods of hil
tcy.
8. The history and origin of nations;
thei,* forty*-of government. i%Jigion, laws,
revenues,taxes,naval and military ftrenjrth
9 T'ie. geniu-t, manners, cuitouls, and
habits of the people.
fa. Their language, learning, arts, fcien
tes, iriannfadhires, and commerce.
11. The chief cities, rtruttures, ruinr,
and artificial curiosities
f2. The longitude, latitude, bearings,
and diftauces of principal places from Phila
delphia.
To which are added.
1. A Glogr A phjcal Index, with the
tames and place", alphabetically arranged,
2. A Table ot the Coins of all nations,
and their value in dollars and cents.
3- A Chronological Table of remarka
ble events,from the creation to the prelent
time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Astronomical Part corretted by
D r . Rittenhouse.
To which havje been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Hkrschell,
and other eminent Astronomers. .
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrcftsd, Improved, and greatly Enlar
—,-i
' ■■■ g«<<'
The firft volume contains twenty-one
Maps end Charts, besides two Aftronpinical
Plates, »iz.
I. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the
vrnrle 3. Europe. 4. Asia. 5. Africa. 6.
South America. 7• Cook's difcoverie*.
8. Countries round the north Pole. 9.
Sweden, Denmark, and Norway, so. Se
ven United Provinces. 11. Austrian, ;
French and Dutch Netherlands. 12. Gei
many. 13. Seat of war in France. 14.
France divided into departments. 15.
Switzerland. :6. Italy, Sicily, and Sar
dinia. 17. Spain and Portugal. 18.
I u key in Europe and Hungary. 19. Ire
land. 2>. Weft-Indies. 21. Vermpnt. 22.
Ar niillarv sphere. 23. Copernican fyfteni.
, With the second volume, which is now
)n the prefsj will be given t ie following
Maps :
1. Ruflia in Europe and Asia.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland-.
5. China.
6. Htndoftan.
7. United States.
8. Britifir America.
9. State of New-Hampftiire.
10. State ot MafTachufetts.
11. State of Connecticut.
12. State of Rh6de Island.
i - State of New-York.
14* State of New-Jersey.
i - State of Pennsylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
'8. State ot Virginia.
State of Kentucky.
23 State of North-Carolina.
21. Fenneir?e,Government.
22. State ot South-Carolina.
23. State ot Georgia.
TERMS.
i. This work will be compriled in two
volumes.
а. Subscribers pay for the- prelent volume
ondeUvery, fix dollars, and the pr.ee of
b'ndlng, (56 cents for boards.)
3. They may receive Che fuccecding vo
liiinem twenty-four weekly numbers, at
aqiiarter dollar each, or else, when si.
ntlhedi at the lame price as the fivft.
4. The fubfeription wi'l be railed on the
firlt day of June 1794, to fourteen dol
lars, exct«[,ve of binding;
5- Should any copies remain for sale after
the completion ot ihe work, they will be
fold at fifteen dollars, and the price of
binding.
б. The names of the fubferibers will be
pool idled as patrons of American litera
turey arts, and sciences.
It is wholly unnecessary to expatiate on
the advantage,to American readers, that
this edition poffefles, over every imported
edtt.on ot any system of Geog-aphy extent,
fin add it tion of mapsoftht several
procured a very great expense, and from
the belt materials that are attainable,
fpraks such fu'lxonvi&ion on this fubjett,
that it would be difrefpeft to the read
er's Underltand ng to iuppofe it requisite
to enter into a detail of arguments to
prove its fuperioritv. In no limilar woi k
have such maps beenever introduced.
The emendationsand additions which
are made in this work,are innumerable,and
occur in every page. The public are re
ferred to the preface for a ilight sketch
of a few of fhem.
The publilher takes the present oppor
tunity of returning his mod (incere thanks
to tliofe refpe<Stab|e characters who have
favored him with documents for improv
ing the ni&psof seVeral of the Itates. He
.requests a cotiti nuance of theii kindness;
and hopes that such public spirited citizens,
as are poverfed of liniilar documents, will
favor him with theiiafllflance in perfect
ing his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he has heen favored, has excited
in hisbreaft the warmest fentimenrs ofgra
titude—fentirnents wh ih time will not ef
face. He p'edges himfelf to the citizens
of the United States," to spare neither pains
nor expense to *ender the prcfent edition
of Guthrie's Geogi aphy improved, deserv
ing of their patronage. waftf
jofeph Clark,
ARCHITECT AT ANNAPOLIS,
Proposes to pablijb, by fubfcriptian,
POLYMATHY j
O R
The American Builder.
A Work calculated equally to edify and en.
teitain ihe Gentleman, Farmer, Su
rveyor, Builder & Mechanic.
THIS work will contain various opinions
of the best wriieis <>n Archite6hire, Aits,
and Science ; iogether with experiments, and
accurate notes of observation, by the .mthor;
being the refuli of thirty years liudy and ex
pedience in his prof<fllon.
It will also contain an alphabetical account
of the qualuy and value oF the various kinds
of maierials, and numerous species of labor,
exp< nded on building.
Exemplifications, toafcertain the quanti
ties of materials and labor nej®effarV to com
plete, almost, every part in a building, of
whatever dipienfions.
An account and '•xplana'ion of all the
terms and phrases, ufeJ m ancient and mo.
dern architecture and building.
To persons inclined to build, h will afford
an opportunity yf regulating theu plans with
in thecompafs of their finances, and prepare
them to prevent impolit'ons t ro m tricking
venders of materials, arid extortionate work
meti—To Mechanics, who for want
ot experience, calculate the value of their
refpc&ive labour, and materials expended in
their particular branches ot building this
work will afford an opportunity 10 eft nolle
with facility and accuracy, any done or in
tended to be done, either in tne aegreiiate or
the minutia:. A
It will contain many curious and valuable
recipes to make fine and coarse varnifhes,fo!r
prefervmg roofs ot houfa, barns, na tongs,
troughs, pipes See. Fecipes to make; vari
ous glues and cements ; r ec ipes to make com
petitions tor elegant, or ipinute ornaments,
and enrichments for oufide or inside com
partments : recipes to make composition for
figures and lncruflauons—to endure .he
weather in any alpeft ; recipes to make fluc
co comppfiiions, foi floors, Inall-houfes, dif,
tilleries, healths, linings for cisterns, &c
Tables to afefrtarn the I'rantling of different
fpcciesol timber neceflary to perform their
refpe&ive funtfions, in proportion to their
various fuf,,en(ions: Tables to afceriain the
dimensions ol ihe various apertions introciu.
ced iu different edifices,and doors, windows"
chunnies, fky-bghts, stair-cases, &c. in pro.'
tion to 1 heir diffcent uses and intentions!-
whether lor beauty or utility; A concise
mode 10 take, and square the dimtnCiins of
all kinds of artificer's work belonging to
buildings, and to afcertairr ihe cubicsl or f u
perficial contents thereof: Obfeivations of
the doctrine of echo and found : A differii
tion on the philosophy, doflrine, and con-
Itrutlion of chimnies, to void or emit the
smoke. Propositions and recipes to cure
smoky chimnies : Observations on the inftj
bil.ty of the edifices heretofore, generally"
"ffted in America : Suggertions of mod,, ,<J
purfuc in buildings here, that will, wi,hout
add, tl0 „al exoerce, tend more to their duia
bility than those heretofore, commor.lv, con.
tl : , Df ' c "P"™» and proportions of
the general and particular members of vari
OU. order, ,n Arch,tenure, viz. the Tuscan'
Uouc, lonic, Corinthian, Composite. Chi
nfe, Attic, Caigatic, Arabesque, Morefquc
t.rotefque, baracemc, R u ft, c , Antique, Ami
tJuo-Modi rn, Gothic, and Hi,tannic: Many
curious h.ftorical account, of various won
derful buildings in different p., t , ot lh „
world : Many curious and origfnal account
and culogiums on Free Mafon^y.
This woik will be printed in two octavo
volumes, each to contain upwards ot 400
pages, on fine paper of c l ega „t lrtt< . r .
The price to fubferibers, in b«»rds five
dollars; two and a HA Lf DOLtAKs.o
be paid on the delivery of the firft, Jnd TWO
and a halt not labs on the delivery of the
second volume. Mr. Clark ad,ires the public
that he will literally perform all that he hath
let forth in these piopofals,
I ,n f linf<l 10 Promote this wo.k,
by fubfcnbing thereto, are requcded ,0 write
poff pa'd, ,0 Mr. jofeph Cla.k, a, Annapolis
mhonfing h,rn to annex then names to the
iublcription lift.
H.S i",'*«», ml,.
The following feciion
of the law for eftahliffiing an Health-Office,
See. paired the last session of tht Legislature,
is r -publilhed for the information ot all
coucerned.
Win. ALLEN, Health-Officer,
for the port ol Philadelphia, No. 21,
Key's alley.
June 2, *794-
Sec. 7. AND he it further tfn'aftcrt by the
anthority aforefaid, That every matter or
captain of any (h'p or vi ffel coining horn be
vend the sea (vessels actually employed in the
coaftmg trade of the United States excepted)
and bound 10 any potior place within the
iunfdiftion of Pennsylvania, ffiali cause his
{hip or vessel to be Brought to anchor, or
otherw«fe stayed in the Oream of the river
I)efew?r e , oppofne to the health-office on
iitatc-ifland alorrfifd, and there to remain
until he (hall have duly obtained a certificate
or bi los health from ihe resident physician,
in the manner and upon the terms herein be
fore direftcd : and if, p'evioufly to obtain
'nK 'uch certificate or bill of health, any
master or captain (hall fuffer his ship or vessel
to approach nearer than the said health-office !
to the city of Philadelphia, or shall land, or
or fuffer to be landed, or brought on
moTs, at any port or place within this com
mon wealth, or at any other port or place,
with the intent to he ror.veyed into this com!
monwealth, any person 01 pelfons, or any
goods, waies or merchandize ; or if alter re
ceiving such certificate or bill of health, he
II all neglect or refufe to deliver the fame to
the health-officer agreeably to the directions
of this ast, such maffer or captain (hall for
feit and pav, for each and every such offence
the turn of five hundred dollars to be recover
ed and appropriated as hereinafter provided
and directed , and the captain or jpafter of
each and every ship or vessel, as soon a s the
fame is brought 10 anchor, orotherwife stayed
as aforefaid, shall fend a fafe and commodious
boat to bring the refidfrnt physician on board
of his (hip or vessel, andWlJ in like man
ner convey him back to the health-office
after he h is coticludcd his official examina
tion ; and while he is making such examina
tion,or in cafe of any lubfequent examination
by the health-officer and consulting physician,
as the caf<" may be, each and every part of the
ftiip or vessel, and ftiali present to his yiew
each and every peifon on board thereof, and
shall also true and fatilfaftory anlwers make
to all such questions as the reftdent physician
at the time of examination, or the healtn offi
cer at the time of delivering the certificate, or
bill of health, in the city of Philadelphia, or
at the time of examination to be had by ihe
health.officer together, with the consulting
phyfiician ffialbifk relative to the health of any
port or place from which the (hip 01 vessel
failed, or has (incc touched at, the number ps
pet sons on board when the (hip or vessel en
ter; d on her voyage, the number of pcrfoiis
tlta-; have since been landed or taken on
board,«snd when or where refpiftively, what
per fops on board, if any have been during the
voyage, or (hall at any time of examin ation,
he infected with any pestilential or contagi
ous difcafe, what person belonging to the ship
or vessel, if any died during the voyage, and
of what disease, ,nd what is the prMent state
and condition of the per sons on boa id with
lefpeft to their health and dileafes ; and if
any ctpiain or m»IW of any ship or vessel
fha|ire:ufe to expose the lame as afortfa.d to
the search and examination of the resident
pri\fician, or of the heaith. officer and confut
ing physician, as the cafe may be ; or if, hav
ing 0,1 beard'his ship or vessel any such per
son or persons, he ffiall conceal the fame, or
it in any manner whatsoever he shall knowing
ly deceive or aticmi t to deceivc the proper
officers aforefaid in his answers to their offici
al enquiries, such captain or master, for each
and every s uc h offence, shall -forfeit and pay
the sum of five hundred dollars, to be re
covered and appropriated as hereinafter pro
vided and fiireftid ; and wherever the rcfi
dent physician, or confuting physician, as
the cafe maybe, shall dir e & any ' person o
perfons, or any good*, ware* or merchandize
to be landed at the health-office, or any ffi.p
or veffd to be deta.ned opposite thereto, and
and there to be fmoaked, cleansed an^purf
-11 r "P la,n of lhe or vessel (hall in
all refpefts conform to such directs,
.all at the prop; r cost and charge of his em
ployers carry the fame into effect w nhin such
reasonable time as the reftdent physician. or
con full iug physician, as the cafe may be. fh .' I
rl , W a '!v P re^ r l be; and if 3nV or
iTfr? A ' C f ne £ ,ca to contoi m.O
m^ C?r f r °? S^ rid 10 ca ' r )' the lame
into effect as aforefaid, according to the rcf
pav thef bj f fi h ''!° f, he fhal ' forfeH and
anLv.r ff C h , U " drfd d ° ,,ars
and every offence, to be recovered and appro
bated as is hereinafter proved and d.reft-
To be Let,
For Merchant, Compting H ouses or p Mk
rri . . . Qfficej,
ftor > r H ° ufeS .
April , jr. MORRIS.
, tuih&stf
TO BE SOLD,
A .large elegant Houfc,
and Lot of Ground,
convenience. ' > or
For particulars apply to the pr ; nt ' er<
tu&thtf
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, deduding 15 per Centt from
the Pri-z.es—this hbttery nnjijls nf
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
14.539 Priz.es and 23,461 Blanks,
l(ing about one and an half Blanks it*.
* a Prize.
Direflors of the Society for eflabiifh-
X ing Ulc-ful Manufacture*, having ref-!v.
cd to creek LOTTERIES tor railing
Hundred Tho us and Du l uns, agreeably
to an of tnc Leg (fjture of tt)e Slate of
New-Jerl'ey, have zppoinred the following
perfmis 10 fiiprririteud and dire£> the draw
ing of the lame, vie. Nicholas Low, Rufuj
King, Herman Le Rov, James Watloi:,
Richard Harnfon, Abijah Hammond, and
Cornelius Hay, of the city ot New.York-
Thomas Willing, Joleuh Hall, Matthew M'v
Connel and Andrew Bayard, ot (he ciiy of
Philadelphia—His Excellertcy. Richard Hovw
ell, Esq. Elias Boudtnot, General El as Day
ton, Janus Parker, J'lhii Bavard, Do&«r
L'-wii Doiiham, Samu I VV. Stockton, Joftin,
M. Wallace, Joseph Bloomfield, anil Elilha
Boudlnat, of Nw-leifey, who offer the
following Scheme of a Loittry„and pledge
thcinfelves to the public, thai th-y will take
everyaflorance and precaution in thnr power
to have the Monies paid by the Manager.,
from time ta time, as lecetvcd, mio tht
Banks ai New-Yoik and Pmlad, jphia, to
remain for ihe puipofe ot paving p r ; z R
which (hall be imnn diai-elv discharged by a
check nDon one of h- Hanks.
SCHEME:
i Prize of 20,000 Dollar* is 20,000
10,000
10.000
1 10,000
2 5.000
.5 2,000
1.000
20 v 500
100 100
3°o 50
ICOO 20
stooo i 5
3000 , 2
B1 OO J Q
,4 ' 5 2 9 , I Pri " s - . 262,000
23,461 Blanks. First drawn Dumber, 2,000
Laitdiawn number, 2,000
38000 Tickets at ; Dollars each is 266.000
The drawing will commence, under the
infpeition ot a Cominitiee of the Supcrin.i
lend<nt«, as loon as the Tickets are Cold, of
wh'cb timely notice will be givrri.
■ The Superiiitenclantf have appointed John
N. Cummin?, ot Newark, Jacob R. Hir.
deriberg, of New-Bnmfwick, and Jonathan
Rhea, of Trenton, as immediate Manager*
thereof, who have given ample security tor
discharging the trult reposed in them.
tFT In order 10 secure the puti&ual pay
ment of th Prizes, the Superimendants of
the Lottery have directed that the .Managerj
(hall each enter into bonds in 40,000 dollar»,
With fitir lufficicnt fecurtti, s, to peiform their
inlUuflioiti, the I'obftanre ot which is
I. That whcncy. r either p! the Manager*
(half recrive thr fnm ol Three Hundred/Do);
lars, tie (hall' iinmJisicl.y 'place the fane in,,
one of the Banks of New-York or Phjladfel*
phia,.to the cicdit of the Governor of the
Society,, and such of..the Superijvfndan.ts ig
live in the city where the monies are place)!,
■to remain there nntil the Lottery is drawn,
lor the oayrmvt of the Prices.
11. The MjO'lß"* to lake fufficicnt (e
----entity for anv Ti/ kcls they may trull, other
wise to he refpoufiule for them.
To keep'jegular books of Tickets
fold,: Monies (received and paid into tile
Bank, ahftrafls of *ij,i c h (hall be fef
monthly, to thrQpverjior of the Society.
January j, 1794.
On application to either of the abote gen
tlemen, information wilt be given where
tickcts may be had.
February 84
Morris Academy.
THIS institution is now open forile re
ception ot rtu lents under the immediate
care ot Mr. Caleb RuffeM, whose abilites
as an rnftruAor, and attachments the bu
finels have long been knolvn a „ d a , proved .
? , t r U ' I:,er hm the hei ' aflillants in
the branches—The fcholats are
t ught the Englilh, French, Lacin, and
Gr.ek languages, Publ.c-Speaking, Writing,
Artihmctic, Geography, Aftroxo,, y, and
t>e var,ou, branches of the Ma le.natic-.
1 ie healthy firuation of this place is «un
a; to recommend it to those, who with to
have their ihtldren in the countrv. Boatd
"!'• ,va( n' n ?> mending, &c. will be provid
ed m good lamilies, and the morals of the
Icho ars c . rehillv attend- d to.
1 he price including tuition, fireword,
I exclul ]»e of the French latif-u ge) will
> exceed thirty pounds proclamation mo-
V |,er ai '"um) an addition of three dollars
P" quarter will be ma,l e to such scholars
Who are taught the French language. The
os ai edetcrmmed to pav such atten
' r : h,s a; Will render it
e and ufel'nl
h. ford,
J°«NS, jun. C DhcA's.
Nathan ford, C
Morn/town, May i 5) , 79.,
5 // O E S.
i" f ft ° Ut Well n,ailc M '"' s
ie lav I,e So mar-
A' 3. 36, North Third. Jireet.
' 6 mw&i'i at
PHILADELPHIA :
i 1 minted by JOHN FENNO, No. 3l
South Fourth-Street,
10.00^
*0,000
1 n ,ooo
10,000
>5»°oo
«o,oco
30.000
36,000
81.000
tn&ftf.
iw.—wm.