evening advertiser.
[No. 85 of Vol. V.]
For Boft on,
DOLPHIN,
William Nichols, Mailer
WILL Sail in about eight days; for freight
or apply to the Captain on board at
Hodge's Wharf, betwen Arch and Race-
Srreets, or
RUM FORD W ABIJAH DAWES.
3d Mon. 14, 1794-
¥II'SBvyHjESP I The American Brig
R I T O IST,
BURTHEN 700 barrels, with her tackle
andapparel as (he came from Tea, She is a
{launch veflel, not two years old, and may be
put to sea immediately. For terms apply
&
GARDINER fcf OLDEN,
/ Arch Street wharf,
IVho have for sale,
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
a quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and a few
calks Timothy Seed—also
Pig and Bar Iran, and Iron cast
ings, in any form executed on the
fhortell notice.
March 14.
For Amsterdam,
The new
bottomed SHIP
J|g| ADRIAN A
K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or pafiage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLJND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land if required. ,
March 6, 17 94* dtf
Bojion,
For
& Harriott ?
. . Jofiah Bernard, Majler.
WILL fail the 25th inft. has good accommo
dations. For freight or paflage, apply to the
Captain on board ot Mr. Sims's wharf, or to
JOSEPH ANTHONY & SON.
March 17
For Sale, or Charter,
To the IVeJi-Indiesy or any Port within
the United Statu ;
The Schooner
BETSEY,
Darius Woodworth, Matter.
Will carry about 500 barrels, and now lies
at Wharton and Graves wharf. f*or terms
apply to Capt. Woodworth on board, or to
EMANUEL WALKER.
If not Sold or Charted by Thurfday> Ihe will
then take Freight for Norfolk* Peter/burgh, and
Richmond (Virgiha); and Sail on the Sunday
folowing.
March 15.
lame of the French
Republic.
n the
I^ VERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commiilions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
(March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
The Minister Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of riewfpapers within the
United States, are requefled to republiih the
foregoing notice. d
"TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible ntuation, —alio a Country Seat
wiihin 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of Jand and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer,
January 23.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes y
A few bales Holland Ducky
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland Sheetings
Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious fizcs.
Sheathing Paper,
diw.
Swedes Iron, /quart and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, Nd. 4.
Dutch Great Coatsi
A quantity of' Junk and Oakum, &c. life,
above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
fhouldapplication be made within a few days ;
other wife Jhe will take freight for Amjler
avm.
March 1, 1794.
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Pettnfylvania State Trials.
*diot
THE want ot fufficicot information of the
state trials ot Gieat-Britatn in the early
periods of that government is now lamented :
Hi herto there hath been but one tiial in the
{late ol Pennsylvania on impeachment :—and
heie also it is to be regictted, that, being neg
le&ed at the time, the public are now left with
out fuflicient information on the fubjctl of that
trial, it is howevet in this woik dtfigned to rcf
cue what can be colle&cd theicof from sources
of indifputaple authority, so that the fame (hail
be preserved from oblivion.
Another impeachment and the second is now
depending. An officer is charged by the late
Honfe ot Reprefeulatives, who haih for many
years been largely confided in by this ifcate,a.ijd
hath long b: en at the head of the financial Oe
partmen* ot the fame, and tt imports the citi
zens to know hisconduft, and the ctrcum fiances
which may be brought foiward on his trial.
In this work the £ditor will be careful to
state the fa&s, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers betorc
the public.—With this view—
The following Terms are refpe&fully
Jubmitted to the Public :
I. The Work lhall be punted in ottavo, with a
good type, on fine paper, and delivered to
fubferibers at the refpe&ive places where the
fubferiptions are takcii in, as soon.as the woik
shall be compleated.
11. As no eonjc&ure can well be made, as to
the length ot the present trial,, the fi7.e ot the
volume cannot be ascertained at this time—
But the pi ice tha.l noi exceed that of forne of
the latell publications in this city.
111. It will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental circumflances that may occur during
the trial of John Nicbolfon, Eiquirc, Comp
troller-General of this commonwea th, with
the arguments of counsel oh both fides, together
with the articles of impeachment, and the
pleas and replications at large, the several re
solutions of the two branches of the state Le
gislature, rcfpe£ting this impeachment, and
the final decision ot the SENATE refptfcuug
that officer. 1
To which will be prefixed, as much as can be
colletted from authentic documents, of-the im
peachment, trial, and aequital of the late Francis
Hopkinfon, Esquire, Judge of the Court oi
Admiralty for the state of Pennsylvania, during
the late war, never before pnblithed;
No money will be required before the deli
very of the book.
Subscriptions will be received by Francis
Bailey, No. 116, High-street; Wriglcy and Ber,.
riman, No. 149, Chefnut-ftreet, and by the'dil
ferent bookleilers in this city; Jacob Bailey,
Lancaster ; Yundtand Patton, Baltimore, and
by the Editor.
4tfmw&f
EDMUND HOGAN.
N. B. The price wilt be enhanced to non
fubfcribers» Feb. 18. ni&wtf
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby offered by the Prefidcnt and Direc
tors of the Bank of the United Staccs, to any
person who (hall, on or before the fir ft day of
May next, pioduce to them such a plao and ele
vation ot a Banking House, as lhall be approved
of by them.—A plain, yet handfonte from is
desired : The whole building is to be fubftaniul
and commodious with as much fpacc around it,
as the size of the gtound will admit.
The Lot on which the building is to beereft
ed, is fitnated on the weft fide of Third firett,
between Chefnut and Walnut ft,cets in Philadel
phia ; and its deroenfions are t lo feet on Third
fV?et, and about loc fret westward.
THOMAS WILLING, President.
cop 3W
ni&th— tf
Wednesday, March 19, 1794.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
Phi laoelphia, February 13, 1794.
PROPOSALS
For printing by Subscription,
A W->rk, to,be entitle.},
A RECOMPENCE OF
AND
Loft at the Theatre,
Last Wednesday evening,
A Miniature Picture
Of a Gentleman, set in gold. Whoever
will deliver the fame at No. 112. Spruce street
shall receive a generous reward.
March 14. 4t
AVIS.
LE habitans infortunes de la Colanie Franpife
dc St. Docmngue qui dans I'inccndie du
Cap Ipol venus chcrchei un alile daus Its Buu
(Jnis foul mformes que la Republique lcur ac
cotde un passage pour Fiance. lis font
en confequcnce a fe piefentir.a cet ctfci d'ici a
huu jours chez-les Consuls & ageos de la Re
publique dans les differ nts Ports dcs Etms Unis.
A Phi ladklphi e, le 10 Vcntos— I'an.fcd de
la Republique unc & indtvifiblc.
(28 Fcvrier, 1794. vicuxjiite)
Lc Minillre P.eiijpotentiaie de ia Repufilique
Ft an^aiic.
JH. FAUCHET.
The editors of "cufpapa's j n the United states arc
rcqucjied lo tnfert above notice in their paper. 8
d tf
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths Ss° "Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortment of
SILVER iff PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY fine CUTLERY,
Which they will di(po;e of on the molt rea
fotyable terms. Devices in hair,. Miniatures
fee:, a. d every thing iu the gold and silver
way,, done as u'.ual.
D cernber 24.
A Good Compositor Sc
Prejfman qvill meet <witb conjtant employ for
fix months, and one quarter dollar per token
and thousand.
Apply at No. 61, foutb Second flreet>
March 15. d^t.
TreasurtoJ. 'Pennsylvania,
February 14, 1794.
PUBLIC Notice is heicby given 10 ail pcituns
indebted to the Commonwealth, tor monies
borrowed ot the Truftces of the Loan Office,
etbblithed per ast ot the 4th oi April, 1785,
t:»at the time is expired wiien the lall payment
thou Id have been made, and every juiUfoblc
indulgence having been granted, Thot unlets
they come forward and pay off their rtlprdive
balances on or before the fit 11 day of Apnlnexr,
precepts will iliue againll all delinquents with
out regard to peifons 01 cireurnllanccs. All
former and cxiftmg thenffs, who have money
in their hands belonging to said Office, aie re
queued to bring it 10 me op or betore the above
period, other wife I fh .11 be under the dilagice
able neceflity of profccuting them without oif
tuidion.
P. S. The Printers throughout the State arc
requtfled 10 iniert the.above in their paper*, tor
the infoimattou ot their fellow-citiicm. d
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, J APANWD
PLATES* &c.
Done in the most elegant manner, and after
the firll matters ; likewise,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finilhed at the shortest notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norris s Court, back of the New
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth streets.
March 4,
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
ihe public, Thai froin the encouragement
he has received, from several refpe&able Gentle
men, he is induced-once more, to embark iu the
P A PER LlNE—and would offer his fei vices- to
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidence
in him ; and he allures those who employ him,
that their coulidcnce (hall not be milplaced;—•
but it lhall be his coultant endeavor, to pay the
ftri&eft attention to their best intcrefi", in all ne
gociations whaiever. He has taken the Chamber,
in State-Street, ov cr Mr. David Tuwnfend, Watch
Makc.'s Shop. Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of all kind*, are bought and fold ; and
wheie Coin million Bufmefs of all kinds, will be
tranfafted on rrafonable term*. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be constantly expoftd lorfale, ou
com mi (Don.
* # * Cash paid for Salem, Providence, and
Ponfmouih BILIS.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York, has any liufinejs to tranjafl at. Bojlon,
in Paper Ncgoct'itiom, he will be floppy to be em
ployed on commijjicn.
Button, Jan. •£, 179^.
m'w&ftf
CHRISTIAN FRBICER
lUW&ftf
[Whole No. 54 I.]
Philadelphia.
The foil owing published in the American Star,
contains fundryparticulars refpefiing tbeFrcncb
and English fleets which tad not before, bun
laid bt fom tfje public.
Details of the division of the French fleet,
which failed from Brest in November, 1793.
Six men of war and two frigates, com
manded by Rear- admiral Wanftable, failed
from Brelt about the end of November, and
cruised between d'Ouefiant and Cape Ltfc?.rd.
They took 17 English prizes, amongfl which
were merchant vessels from the fpnr quarter*
of the world.
The ioth day of their cruise, being twenty
five leagues Weft of d'Ouefiant they had
fight of the Englilh fleet, composed of twenty
fix men of war, and a number of frigates and 1
corvets, which gave chafe with a fair wind to
the French fleet, whom it endeavoured to
keep from the land, by means of an oblique
course, made between them and the land.
It was at this time that Lord Howe, believ
ing that the French veflels could not escape
him, detached an advice-boat to announce tile
capture of the French squadron.
The rear-admiral Wanflable perceiving
the design of the Engli/h admiral, took to
flight, and steered in such a manner as made.
Lord Howe believe that he designed to run
out to sea, and this was what aided him alll
the time he could not be perceived*
In this interval, an English frigate having
approached a French one, brought her can
non to bear ; the former left her and pufted
hard towards the veiTels of the Rear-admiral,
who gave the enemy's frigate a hroadiidej &
the Englilh not being willing to receive ano
ther, steered off towards the thickest of his
fleet.
As soon as night came, Wanftable made
a lignal to extinguish all the fires and lights,
and to change the course. He immediately
made an E. S. E. direction, till judging hitr
felf to be between the north and south of Bel
lifle, he (leered for it to convince hi mfelf, &
found the land so nigh that he entered Brett
without any accident. By this dextrous man
oeuvre he escaped the enemy, and had in cafe,
of any unlucky rencounter, the fort of . 1-
lisle for a protestor, or the bay of Tibercu.
for a refuge.
Lord Howe having miffed a prey, which
he regarded as certain, returned into the bay
of Falmouth. Ihe French squadron being
certain of this, and not imagining that fix
veffeU could make any way against 16, im
mediately put to sea and fleered for America.
CONGRESS.
IN SENATE,
Monday, March 10.
[continued.]
A meflage from the House of Repre
fentativcs, by Mr. Beckley, their Clerk :
" Mr. Prelident—The House of Re
prefentativcs have passed a bill', entitled;
" an ast to provide a Naval Armament,"
in which they deflrc the concurrence of
the Senate."—And he withdrew.
The bill last mentioned, was read the
firft time-
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
Ordered, That the Secretary purchase
Blackftone's commentaries, and Vattel's
law of nature and nations, for the ufo of
the Senate.
The Senate adjourned until 11 o'Clock
to-morrow morning.
Tuesday, March n, r 794.
The bill " to erect a Light-House on
the head land of Cape Hatteras ; and »
lighted Beacon on Occacock Island, in
the state of North-Carolina," wa6 read
the third time.
Resolved, That this bill pass, that it
be engrossed, and that the title thereof
be, " An Ast to erect a Light-House on
the head land of Cape Hatteras ; and a
lighted Beacon on Occacock Illaiid, in
the state of North-Carolina."
Ordered, That the Secretary defive iKe
concurrence of the House of Reprelenu
tivei in this bill.
On motion,
Ordered, That the Attorney-General
for the United States, be diretted to re
port upon the petition o{ the inhabitant!
of Galliopolii, lodged in hit office by
reference, at the lalt fd&o& of- Congpei*.The Senate relumed tHe second reading
•f the bill " is addition to the ast for
the punifbmrnt of certain crimes against
the United States," and after progrria,
Ordered, That the 'further coufidera
tion thereof be podponed.
Mr. Vining reported from the commit
tee for enrolled bills, that they had ex
amined the bill, entitled " an a£l making
appropriations for the support of govern
ment, for the year one thousand seven
hund/ed and ninety four," and that it
wax duly enrolled.
A mefTage from the House of Repre
{entatives, by Mr. B eckley, their Clerk :
" M . President—The Speaker of the
HouCc of Representatives having signed
an enrolled bill, and an enrolled rcfolu
tion, I am directed to bring them to the
Senate, for the fignatureof the Vice-Pre
fideut."—And he withdrew.
The Vice-President ligned the enrolled
bill, entitled " an a£t making appropria
tions for the support of government, for
the year one thousand seven hundred and
ninety four/' also the enrolled " resolu
tion propofmg to the several States an a
■nendment to the constitution of the Uni
ted States, refpe<fting the judicial power,"
and the bill was delivered to the commit
tee to be laid before the President of the
United States, for his approbation.
The Senate adjourned until 11 o'clock
to morrow morning.
Wednesday, March 12th, 1794.
On motion,
Ordered, That Mr. Burr, have leave
of absence.
On motion,
Refolded, That the President of the
United States be rtquelled to transmit to
the executives of the several States, co
pies of the amendment proposed by Con
gress, to be added to the constitution of
the United States, refpefting thejudicial
power.
Ordered, That the Secretary desire
the concurrence of the House of Repre
sentatives in this tefolution.
Mr. Vining reported from the commit
tee on enrolled bills, that they did this
day, lay before the President of the U
nited States, for his approbation, the bill,
entitled " an ast making appropriations for
the lupport of government for the year
one thousand seven hundred and ninety
four."
A mefiage from the House of Repre
sentatives, by Mr. Beckley, their Clerk :
. " Mr. President—The House of Re
presentatives have parted a bill, entitled,
" an ast to provide for the defence of
certain ports and harbors in the United
States," in which they desire the con
currence of the Senate.
" They have concurred with the Se
nate, in the resolution of this day, re
queuing the President of the United
States to transmit to the refpeftive States,
copies of the " Resolution proposing to
the several States, an amendment to the
constitution of the United States, refpeft
ing the judicial power."—And he with
drew.
Sixteen enrolled copies of the last men
tioned resolution, were delivered to the
committee for enrolled bills to be laid be
fore the President of the United States for
transmission.
Mr. Vining reported from the committee
for enrolled bills, that they had accord
ingly laid the laid enrolled copies before
the President of the United States.
The Senate resumed the second reading
of the bill " in addition to the ast for the
punithment of certain crimes against the
United States."
On motion
To strike out the 7th feftion of the bill,
as follows:
jlnd be it further c*aßed, That it shall
not be Sawful to fell within the United
States any veflel or goods captured from
a prince or ttate or from the fubje&s or ci
tizen* of a prince or Hate with which the
United States are at peace, which veflel
or goods lhall have been captured by any
other foreign prince or state or by the fub
jc&t or citizens of such prince or state,
rnlefe fnch veflel and goods (hall have been
fitft carried iotoa pori or place within the
territory of the prince or state to which
the captors belong, but &ch veflels and
guods stall be carried out of the United
States by thole who &aU have brought
then in. And the falc of any veflel or
roods prohibited as aforefaid ftiall be ut
terly void.
kpn&d 10 the Mptiic.
Yeas as—Nays li.
The yeat asd a ays being required by
onfcfirfe of d»- Seoaton prrfcal.
Those who voted in the affirmative,
are.
Messrs. Bradley, Brown Butler, Ed
wards, Gunn, Hawkins, Jackfua, Lang
don, Martin, MonrOc, Robinson And Tay
lor.
Those who voted in the negative, are,
MefTrs. Bradford, Cabot, Ellfworth,
Foster, Izard, King, Livermore, Mit
chel, Morris, Potts, Strong and Vining;
The Vice-President determined the
question in the negative.
On motion,
To adopt this 7th feftion,
It pafled in the affirmative—Yeas 12
—Nays 12.
The yeas and nays being required by
one fifth of the Senators present,
Those who votod in the affirmative,
are
Meflrs. Bradford, Cabot, Ellfworth,
Foster, Izard, King, Livermore, Mitchel,
Morris, Potts, Strong, and Vining.
Those who voted in the negative, arc
Messrs. Bradley, Brown, Butler, Ed
wards, Gunn, Hawkins, Jackson, Lang
don, Martin, Monroe, Robinson, and Tay
lor.
The Vice-President determined the
question in the affirmative.
On motion,
To adopt the following as an addition
al feftion to the bill, viz.
" And be it further enabled, That this
ast (hall continue and be in force for and
during the term of fix months, and from
thence to the end of the next feflion of
Congress, and no longer."
It palled in the negative—Yeas 11—
Nays 13.
The yeas and nays beieg required by
one fifth of the Senarors present,
Those who voted in the affirmative,
are
Mefirs. Bradley, Brown, Butler, Ed
wards, Gunn, Hawkins, Jackson, Mar
tin, Monroe, Robinson, and Taylor.
Those who voted in the negative, are
Messrs. Bradford, Cabot, Ellfwoith,
Foster, Izard, King, Langdon, Livermore,
Mitchel, Morris, Potts, Strong, and Vi
ning.
On motion,
To adopt the following, as an addition
al feftion to the bill, to wit:
" And be it further enaSed, That this
ast (hall continue and be m force, for and
during the term of two years, and from
thence to end of the next feflion of Con
gress, and no longer.
It palled in the affirmative—Yeas 17
—Nays 7.
The yeas and nays being required by
one fifth of the Senators present,
Those whose voted in the affirmative,
are
Meflrs. Bradford, Brown, Cabot, Ellf
worth, Foster, Gunn, Hawkins, Jackson,
Izard, King, Livermore, Martin, Mitchel,
Morris, Potts, Srong and Vining.
Those who voted in the negative, are,
Messrs. Brai'ey, Butler, Edwards, Lang
don, Monroe, Robinson and Taylor.
On motion,
That this bill pass to the third reading
It palled in the affirmative ;
Yeas 12 —Nays 12.
The yeas and nays being required by
one fifth of the Senators pi efent.
Those who voted in the affirmative, are,
Meflrs. Bradford, Cabot, Ellfworth,
Foster, Izard, King, Livermore, Mitchel,
Morris, Potts, Strong, and Vining.
Those who voted in the negative, are,
Messrs. Bradley, Brown, Butler, Ed
wards, Gunn, Hawkins, Jackson, Lang
don, Martin, Monroe, Robinson and Tay
lor.
The Vice President determined the
question in the affirmative.
(To be continued.)
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchants Coffee-Houfe of tb'u
City :—
Respectfully inform* Ms Frimd* and
the Public ic general, that he has THIS
DAY oDened a HOTEL in Shippcn-Strett, be
tween Third and Fourth-Sirens, at thr House
formerly ocafpi«d by Mr. Timmons, which
has Lately been greatly improved* and is now
commodious ; where he has turaiflied him-
Iclt with «he befl of LIQUORS, and wiil fur
a.fk a TABLE for Parties, w«h the best provi
iioat the Market* aiioi<L, at any hour, on the
Jborteft notice, from hia Wng experience in
this tine of bufinefi, he fldUrrs Jviuifclf fliall
be able to give faltcfa&ioato all who may plraXe
tofavoetoim with their company.
FkiUidffaia, Jaxuus-y ss, #794.
CONGRESS
House of Rcprefentativcr.
Friday, March 14.
Jn committee of the whole on Mr. MaJifon's
resolutions.
[continued.]
Mr. SEDGWICK'S SPEECH
Mr. S- laid that although he had been
absent during the discussion of this im
portant subjeCt, yet he could not consent
to give a silent vote, though he had not
the vanity to suppose he could give new
light; yethavingon a queftionof m gnitude
accultomed himfelf to speak as well as vote
his sentiments, he would not n(iw omit it;
he felt the propriety of apologifiug on this
occalion :—lt was said that the measure
was popular, and that the opppfition was
reprobated by the people, if so, it would
be mean and base in him to ill rink from a
participation with the gentlemen, with
whom he J>ad so long acted, with perfect
fatisfaftion to his own mind.
The question was now presented, as
doubtless it ought to be, dire&ed only to
G- B. and propofmg a- discrimination a
gainst her. The object was, to compel
that couHtry to relax the severity of h«r
commercial regulations, and to put her
intercourse with this country, on a more
favourable footing to us. That all this
was to be effected by lefTening our trade
with G. B. and diverting it to other chan
nels.
When to all this it was replied, that
the present conduct of G. B. put such re
gulations at defiance—that so far from
shewing a dread of such a iyflem, (he was
pursuing measures, which as far as in her
power, threatened our commerce with an
nihilation : that at such a time to attempt
by the proposed measures, to bend her
views to our wiihes was absurd. That at
this time, if there was a ray of hope, to
avoid the calamities of war, every mea
sure which was at the fame time irritating
and ineffectual fliould be avoided. To
these objection, it was answered, was war
inevitable, the proposition ought now to
be adopted, as a commercial system to
come into operation, at the conclusion
of the war.—Gentlemen who made this
answer, did not seem to remember that to
render it just, we mult poflefs a certain
knowledge of the events of the war :—
That the relative circumstances of the two
countries, might be mutually altcrel by
thole events, and that which might be
proper now, would be wholly improper
then.
As this question was merely of a com
mercial i a ure, he had regretted to fee
political considerations intermingled in the
debate. The antipathy that was mani
fefted to cne cou.,t y, and the friendly re.
gard to another, ought not to influence
the decision, Passion (hould he banished,
and just and c'ol calculations, on the
foundation of national interest alone di
rest our determination.
It wasnot nowa question, whetherG. B.
had infli&ed political injuries on this coun
try, whether {he aided the savages of the
wildemefs, in the murder of our citizens,
whether (he had let loose upon us the more
barbarous savages of Africa, or whether
(he had committed piratical t'epredations
on our commerce—if th *fe farts were so,
and justice could not be obtained by nego
ciation, though he should deprecate war
a 6 an evil of great magnitude, yet (hould
justice be denyed us, he should then seek
redress with as much firmn.-fs he hoped as
most men. In such a warfare, he (hould
hope for vi&ory ; there was he believed
no foundation for such hope in the war
&re, contemplated by the p,opofitions be
fore the committee.
He laid it down as a maxim that the go.
Ycrnment of every country, in all its deli
berations ftiould be influenced onlv by
considerations of public good. To do
juliice to all the world, religiously to per
form its contra&s, these were to be scru
pulously obfcrved, for they were always for
the public good. A private man might
indeed, practice disinterested benevolence
to any extent, his humanity and generoli
ty might di&ate—a public man, had no
such authority. Did America he a (Iced,
owe a debt of gratitude to France, whence
derive we the authority to discharge it ?
Is such debt due, who shall calculate thi
amount? How much of the blood, of the
treafwe, of the prosperity of onr country,
will ease us of this load of obligation ! '
He said be did not wish to depreciate
the merit of France, her efforts were glori
ous to herfelf, and beneficial to this coun
tiy. That he might, hoover, be per.
mitted to recall the remembrance of the
committee to her conduit. He then ex*
hibited a view of that conduit, front
which he concluded that every thing
which was done, had its foundation in a
cool and temperate calculation of national
benefit. That this indeed, was the only
legitimate motive to national measures.
That other countries could always calcu
late their measures upon national interest,
and he ftneerely hoped the government of
this conntry would do the fame. "To
do otherwise" laid he, " is quixotism—it
it is crusading for the salvation of otherß,
and not ourselves." He hoped therefore,:
that no part of our assent to the propositi
on immediately under coniideration, would
be expected either from gratitude on the
one hand or refeutment on the other,
He said he should proceed to consider
whether it was for the interett of Ame
rica, that this proposition (hould be a
dopted. The objects are to leflen credit,
to controul commerce by diverting it frcm
its ancient channels, to encourage naviga
tion and manufa&ures ; and the motive
was that Great Britain poflefled a greater
portion of our trade than (lie was entitled
to from her disposition and ccndudt to-
wards us,
He could not help premising that the
featuies of the system were strongly mark
ed with a disposition to controul men in.
the economy of private life and the ma
nagement of their fortunes—why else not
permit them to extend their credit when
in their opinion it may be ufeful to them ?
Such measures, for such purpose could on
ly be juitified on a pretence that ourcoun-.
trymen were deficient either in wisdom or
in prudence—-A pretence which if not
insolent, always had, and always would
be found mischievous, because the great
bulk of every community were more com
petent to the management of their own
private concerns than the government wo'd
pretend to be.
The whole fyftcm is dire&ed toward!
Great Britain, and the obje<3 is declared
ly coertion. The confluences molt be
either, I it, that Great Britain would sub
mit; 2d, that (he would withdraw her ca
pital and relinquish a commercial connexi
on with us; or 3d, that flie would coun
teradl our regulations by legislative pro
vilions.
Suppose Great Britain should be com
pelled to fubmiflion, it would not be ima
gined (lie would do it immediately ; and in
the mean we mud fuller much distress. It
was true, he said, we had many other
commercial connexions, but in these we
did almost the whole of the carrying
none of the nations to whom we are thu»
allied having any considerable (hipping to
spare for cur purposes ; nor was there any
probability that they would immediately,
if at all, furni(h us with any considerable
supply. We mud therefore depend on
ourselves. In a country circumstanced at
this was, it was to be expected there would
always be a deficiency of commercial ca
pital ; because there were so many objeflt
to which capital could be profitably ap
plied. The object of the resolution under
confederation, was to divert capital from
branches in which it was at present gain
fully employed to others. The branch
wus at prefant overftccked; yet a diversi
on mull take place, for (hips must be built
or our produce % could rot go to market,
but must perish on our hands. Manufac
tures, too, must be eftablilhed, or our Ci
tizens could not be supplied with the ne
cessaries and conveniences for which they
now depended on other countries; and
they mull do without them until our na
vigation is fufficiently encreaftd. What
effects, he alked, were to be produced by
a direrfion, and tfat immediately, of one
half of our commerce from its ancient and
natural channels ? Was there nothing to
be feared for the preferrotion of the pub
lic credit, wh:ch this commerce was to
lupport ? Nothing for the prosperity and
happiness of oar country >
But what be (aid, appeared atmo& far.
fical to him us this (yiUxa wat, it w» m*
intended to fee prrmaumt. Gcr.tlrr.Kn
said, Great IVitain »cuW not &n»d the
iTiock—(he naojt (übmk; tfcerwy fcberrf,
then, wsti to de
whom we were to
When our wrcfcnk *s4 «wr bsskki
fafturei -efUfcliflaod, Grew Boßkw *s>de{
give over tJ« tWßteft. Tfce* 6*r
might be laid up «* «sr do«kit> Md isstr
manufafhiiiftg capites rejh&d m thofs
branches from »+.tci k wxts m to br. i»V
fiantly withdraw*; fwrtttfefistHatc-Mu',.ywoutd be convinced that (he (hould parti
cipate in oor commerce, which would not
be the cafe, if we fpplyed ourselves, (he
would certainly never humble herklf be
fore us.
Strange and absurd suppositions were
made to lay the foundation on which to
build this system. It was fnppofed that
without any considerable distress of our
citizens—without a (hock to public cre
dit—without (hipping to export or im
port—and, with a deficiency of commer
cial capital we could divert, and that im
mediately, half our commerce from its
natural channels, while Great Britain,
mull be ruined, or at lead compelled to
submission, by a diversion of a (mall por
tion of hers, altho' (lie had (hipping to
transport thro' the world and more com
mercial capital than any nation on earth.
" Take care, fir, (aid lie,' I beseech you,
that led astray by resentment, gratitude or
refined theory, the curse of modern times,
you do not dillipate your goodly inherit
ance." Gentlemen had said, our consti
tuents are improvident, that the exttntion
of credit afforded the means of difllpation ;
let usdeltroy th»fe means. " Strange doc
trine laid he, and unfounded as strange !
We have no right to aflame the character
of their guardians in this refpe£t. There
are not as has been jultly (tated by a gen
tleman from Virginia, (Mr. Lee) any
mea. by which this can be justly done,
bul ,jy giving liability to youi govern
ment, and enforcing a prompt and im
part; il execution of your laws, which
indeed . . ... _er extend th.in limit cre-
Was Great Britain to relinquifii her
commercial connexion with us, though to
Ijer it would be a misfortune, yet to us it
would be a very unhappy event. Ever
since he could remember, it had been the
fafhionable cant to exclaim against credit ;
yet under a system of credit, .America had
enjoyed un :ampLd proipeiity. That in
his op.nion, experience was the only un
erring dire&or in political investigations.
The commercial intercourse between G.
Brita n and America would continue, should
this system be adopted or it would cease In
either cafe or in a mean between the two, the
'burthens created by it would fall principally
if not wh6lly on our citizens—Should it con
tinue, it w: uld be a charge on our imports
and exports to be fatisfied by the labor and
industry of our people. On our exports be
cause in all foreign markets the produ&s of
our country have to sustain a competition
with the fame species of the produce of other
countries —A hogshead of tobacco for instance
has its price determined by the demand for
it compared with the capacity of supplying
that demand by this and other countries ; an
indemnification for the additional expence
.cannot be obtained in the sales; it must there
fore be an expence in the labor and industry
which produces the article. On our imports
the fame will be the cafe, for a merchant will
not continue to supply a market which will
not indemnify him for all his expences, and
besides afibrd him his usual profits. In this
cafe also there would be no other source of
indemnification but the labor and industry of
the country. Under the preflure of these
burttens the reduced price of exports and the
' enhanced price of imports, how altered from
its present happy state, would be the condi
tion of our'planters and farmers ?—lf the in
tsrcoyrfe should not continue, thenftiould we
destroy our best markets, deprive our people
of the most valuable source of supply, and
destroy too, the best means of supporting
the public credit.
It remained Mr. S. said, to be considered
what effects would probably result from G.
Britains meeting our regulations with coun
teracting reftriftions. But previous to an
immediate confederation of this question; it
would be proper to enquire whether the com
mercial conduct of that country towards this
would jullify this measure as a mean of reta
liation ?
He said that he believed the condu# of G.
Britain, had on this lubjedt of commere,
been too limited and narrow. That this was
particularly true as refpe&ed a commercial
intercourse between America and G. Britain
and her dominions in the Weft-Indies. But
it should be remembered that she was an in
dependent nation, and as such had a right to
consult and pursue her own interest. That
until she should be convinced that a more
liberal and enlightened policy was for her
benefit, it not be expe&ed that file
would facrifice her own interest to our bene
fit—-That she would be at the expence of
maintaining and supporting her colonies, that
we might participate in the profit. That all
we could in realon demand of her was, that
flie should not discriminate against us, but
that her condudl should be as favorable to us
as to other independent nations. Was her
conduct influenced by the considerations
which have produced the resolution before
us ? did she single out America as the only
objedt of her resentment, the ardor with
which this measure was pursued, would
have fusficient foundation for its juflification.
( Speech to be continued.)
Foreign Intelligence.
NATIONAL CONTENTION.
Tuesday, December 24.
Thuriot read the following Letter.
" Oilioules, Dec. 19, 5 o'clock in the morn.
" I arrived from Toulon, my dear friend,
which a division of our troops entered about
3 o'clock in the morning. After having
bombarded that infamous city durhig twelve
hours, the enemy evacuated it with precipi
tation, at the moment when the scaling lad
ders were ready to feale it: but setting out,
they set fire to those of our ships, which they
could not carry along with them, as likewise
to the Arsenals. The city is now all in flames,
and exhibits the most horrid fpe&acle. Al
most all the inhabitants fle^; and those that
remain shall serve to appease the manes of our
brave brothers who fought with so much va
lour.
" Adieu, dear friend !
(Signed) " SALICETTI."
u Lyons, De vmber 21
" The representatives of the people at
Albitte have received the news of the re-cap
ture of the Port of Toulon by the army of
the Republic. —This intelligence is the more
interesting, as the patriots, whom aristocracy
began to divide, will re-unite ltronger than
ever. We only loft about 200 men in that
imporfaut affair. The enemies set fire to some
of our (hips, but many of them remain for
us. The Spaniards are done for : we enter
their country as we please.
« SOULES."
" Commiflioner of the
Executive Power."
(Signed)
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 19.
It is reported that a Spanish frigate, hav
ing on board three millions of dollars i 6 cap
tured by a French frigate, and carried into
Norfolk, Virginia.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK March 18,
Baron Steuben has been to take a view
of the harbor of this city, to ascertain,
for his private fatisfa&ion, the bell place
for ere&ing fortifications. We hear he
is decidedly of opinion, the best place is
at the Narrows, several miles from this
city. This place was contemplated by
the British, during the last war, in cafe
they had been necefiitated to guard the
city from an attack by sea. It is judged
that resistance at that place will he as ef
fe&ual as any other, and certainly a stand
at a distance from the citv will be the moil
eligible.
A number of citizens inCharlefton (S.
C.) have met and appointed a committee
to draft a memorial to Congress, on the
fubjeft of the depredations committed on
our commerce by the Englifti.
M. Mangount, the French Consul at
Charleston (S.C.) has commenced a pro
secution against Mr. Bowen, Printer of a
Newspaper there, for (lander.
ExtraS of a letter from Gibraltar Bay,
dated January 17.
" I suppose you must have heard of
Lord Hood's getting pofTeflion of Tou
lon ; which 1 now inform you he was un
der the necessity of evacuating the 18th
of December last. The fame evening
they .burnt ten fail of the line of French
(hips, ten frigates with their arsenals, &c.
We brought off our (hip of an hundred
and ten guns, two seventy-sour, four fix
and thirty, four two and thirty gun fri
gates, and eighteen gun (loops. We
left undeftroyed nine fail of the line, three
frigates and three hulks, which the Spa
niards promised to destroy: but whether
it was from fear or policy they left it un
done, I (hall not pretend to fay.
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
IN the heat of party rage, we are very
apt to overlook every question which ought,
to determine our proceedings. I would wifli
to recal to the recolle<flion of our country
men, that the firft insult and wrong since the
commencement of this war, was given by
this country against England—They will flop
to refle<fl that in our eagerness to fulfil our
treaty with the French, we fuffcred them
(and have continued to doit to this mo
ment* ) to fell their prizes in our ports, con
trary to the usage of neutral nations in time
of war, and not stipulated in any treaty with
the FrencTi, and lately declared by our Fede
ral court to be illegal ; (fee their late deter-
mination) we did this even without giving
any formal notice to the British court, and
prizes have been fold, I believe nearly, if
not quite equal in value to what property
they may have in the Weft Indies of curs.
The Bririih minrftry have complained of
this, and have declared that they will look
for restitution. Can we therefore vender
that they have done the fame by us ? But I
am not yet convinced that they have kept
their intentions a secret from us, because I
read in our papers, an extra<ft from the Bri
tish papers of date the ill of Jan. which came
by the way of the Weft Indies, wherein the
people of England are infonned that their
government were about to take such mea
sures against American veiFels j and it was
very finguiar that a newspaper should be in
porfeffion of this intelligence, & Mr. Pinck
ney could not obtain it. lam rather inclin
ed to believe that the veflel which was to
bring us the intelligence has been loft or tak
en.
This being the cafe, I would ask what
right have we to seize any individual proper
ty in this country, when we have been the
firft to give the offence, and continue to do it
without offering any excuse, palliation,
or apology to the Britiih government.
Ityh March, 1794.
P. S. What has been the, conduct of the
Danish government ? The privateers of
France carried several Britilh prizes into their
ports, and so far from fuffering them to fell
them, they would not fuffer them to depart
with them as is the usage, but gave them up
to the owners again.
* The writer is to ejlahlijh this
fa&.
N. B.—ln the last sentence of the Attor
ney General of Jamaica's opinion, publiih
ed in yesterday's paper, «the word No should
have been inserted before the word " con
demnation".
SHIP NEWS.
Late last night the brig Susanna, Capt. Ter
ris, arrived in the river, below, from Bour
deaux, which place ftie left the 18th of Janua
ry last—The Capt. has since come up to town
—It isreported that this vessel is come with
dispatches to Congress, from the American sea
Captains in Bourdeaux—The embargo there
is still continued—and about one hundred fail
of American veflcls are now detained in that
port —many of which have been there three,
four, and five months—The rumour there
fore of the embargo's being taken off, it ap
pears is without foundation.
Capt. Terris informs, that the combined
forces at Toulon, destroyed onlyfeven fail of
the French .ships —the arsenal, and part of
the town —That fifteen ships were recovered
by the French army.
An oyster boat arrived here, brings infor
mation that on Friday morning last, the brig
Mercury, Capt. Thompson of this port,
bound to Falmouth, was spoke with in a
leaky condition, on her return.
We hear that a brig belonging to Boston,
from Bourdeaux, is arrived in the river,
loaded with brandy, on account of the French
government —Several other vefTels we hear
are below.
Cape. Perry from Cadiz, on the 3d March,
lat. 31, 26, long. 68. Spoke the (hip Jefle,
Capt. Colman of Bolton, from the Isle of
France, bound home—out 72 days—all well.
February 13th, the Spanilh fleet failed from
the Havanna, consisting of, four 74 gun (hips,
two frigates and two ltore ships, besides two
schooners and three sloops, all destined for
the blockade of Hifpaniola, except two seven
ty fours and one frigate, for Cadiz with mo
ney as follows:
The St. Pedeo, 74 guns, four million dol
lars.
The St. Lorengo, 74 do. four and a half do.
The frigate Ceres, ao do. three and a half
The Spaniards were fending troops to Flo
rida. -
The fubferibers agree
ably to the direction of their fellow-citizens,
hereby give public notice, that a meeting
will be held at the City-Hall at 5 o'clock, on
the afternoon of Thursday the 20th inft. to
take into Consideration, and decide upon the
report which was made on Saturday last, of
an instrument exprefiive of the thanks of the
citizens, for the services rendered by the com
mittee of health, during the late calamity ;
and of the measures proper to accompliih the
obje&s that were recommended by that com
mittee to the public attention.
It is presumed that the feelings which were
excitecf, and the sentiments which were ex
pressed, during the fatal months of Septem
ber, O<slober and November last, have not
been extinguiflied or forgotten; and of course
that every citizen will be happy in the pre
sent opportunity, of personally acknowledg
ing the debt of fraternal gratitude, and of
perpetuating the example of civic virtue, a
rifmg from the important, hazardous and
fuccefsful ferv<ces of the Committee of
Health.
Thomas M i Kean > Jsbn Swamuick,
A. J. Dallnj, Qbprla .jj id die,
Anthony Morris, Witt'taM Rogers.
Jon tf/.v n B. Smith,
Philad. 17th March, 1794.
(EJ - For three days part, the deliberati
ons of the House of" Representative» of
the United States, have been private.
Tho Naval Armar. ent Bill bat pajjed the
Senate of the U. S. w : 'h amendments.
" Fair play" To-morrow.—
Advertisement.
WI LL Ijc expoftd to pulii'C fair, on Se
venth cay rhe 29th of thi« instant, at the late
a welling house of R chard Ch«vney, dt ceaf
ed r a plantation, firmte in rhe Township of
Thornbury in the county of Delaware, and
lying on I hester creek, containing 80 acres,
1 5 of which are good water* tl meadow, and
more may be made at a fmallexpence, about
25 acres.of wond land, and the remander it
good fertile land well fuppiied with water.—'
There are on the prenii e*, a good fto: e
dwelling House and kitchen, an excellent
gll den, an orchard of 25 good bearing trees
a good barn cellar'd under, a Jaw-mill, and
an excellent feat for a grift or merchant mill,
with a futficiency «>f water.
Like wife a tract of wood land ajoining the
above—lmmediate pofTetiion w.ll be given to
the purchaser—'The sale to begin at 2 o'clock
on fa id day, where attendance wtll be given,
and conditions made known by
JOHN CHEYNEY, ? Executo , s .
WILLI AM CHEYNEY, $
March, !Q. d4t.
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
March iq,
, Will be performed,
A Comic Opera, called the
CaJlle of Andalujia.
(Written by the Author of the Poor
Soldier.)
Don Scipio,
Don Caesar,
Don Fernando, Mr. MarfliaflL
Don Juan, Mt. Morris.
Don Alphonfo, Mr. Moreton.
Pedrillo, Mr. Bates.
Spado, Mr. Wignell.
Sanguino, Mr. Green.
Phihppo, Mr. Darley, jun.
Banditti, Meflrs. Harwood, Cleveland.
Warrell,' Bliflet, &e. &e.
Victoria, Mrs. Warrel.
Lorenza, Mrs. Mai (hall.
li'abella, Mrs. Bates.
Catalina, Miss. Broadhurft.
The Scenes designed and executed by
Mr. Milbourne.
End of the Opera, a charafteriftic Panto
mimical Dance, called the
Sailor s Landlady.
OR, JACK in DISTRESS.
Jack, Mr. Francis.
Ned Haulyard, (• with a new Song)
Mr. Darley, jun.
Sailors, Meflrs. Warrell, Bliflett, War
rell, jun. Lee, Bason, and De Moulin.
Lafles, Mrs. Cleveland, Mrs. Bates,
Miss Rowfon and Mil's. Willems.
Landl.idy, Mis. Rowfon.
Orange Girl, Mrs. De Marque.
To which will be added, A FARCE, in
two Acts, called
The SPOIL'D CHILD
Little Pickle,
Old Pickle,
Tag,
John,
Thomas,
Miss Pickle,
Maria,
Margery,
Susan,
Ladies and Gentlemen are requeftcd to
fend their servants to keep place*, it half an
hour pall 4 o'clock, and to order them to
withdraw, as soon as the company ate (eaaed,
as they cannot on arty account be permitted
to remain in the boxes, nor aay places kept
after the firft a6l.
N. B. No money or tickets to be returned,
nor any person admitted on any accoun
wbehind the scenes.
As inconveniences to the public have
arisen from the Box-book beieg open on the
days of performance only, in future attend
ance will be giv.n at the office in the Tbeatre
every day from ten 'till one, and on the dayi
of performance from ten till three o'clock in
the afternoon. Applications for B oX es,iti«
refpc&fully requested, may be addreiTed, to
Mr. Franklin, at the Box Office.
The managers request, to prevent confu
fion, servants may be ordered to set down and
take up with the horses* heads towards the
Schuylkill, and drive off by Seventh-llreet.
Places in the Boxes to be taken at the Box-
Offiee of the Theatre, at any hour from nine
in the morning till three o'clock in the after
noon, m the day of performance*. Tickets
to be had at the office near the Theatre, at
the comer of Sixth-street, and at Carr & Co'»
Muficalßepofitory, No. u;, Market-f«xeet.
Mr. Finch
Mr. Darley,
Mrs. Marlhall.
Mi. Finch.
Mr. Francis.
Mr. Bliffet.
Mr. Darley.
Mrs. Rowfon.
Mrs. Cleveland.
Mrs. Bates.
Miss Willems.Ffciri-SpWa, Marc* i, -.-94-
JUST PUBLISHED,
T MATHEW CAREY,
No. liS, Market firtel.
5 HE FIKST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography:
O*. A
Geographical, Hiftorhal, ana
Commercial Grammar ;
Ajkl present ft ate «f the Several
NjtriONS OF THE WORLD.
CO«TAIKUC|
I. Th** figures, motions, ami distances of
tlie planets, according to tlie Newtonian sys
tem and the latest obfervatioos.
2. A general view of tfce earth, oonfidered
as a planet; with several uleiul geographical
definitions and problems.
3. Tbe grand diviiions of the globe into
land and water, continents and inlands.
4- Tlie liruation and extent of empires,
kingdoms, states, provinces and colonies.
5. Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, metals, minerals, natural curi
osities, seas, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
aud lakes.
6. The birds and beasts peculiar to each
country.
7. Oblervations on the changes that have
been any where oblerved upon the face of na
ture since the mod earjy periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations ; their
forms of government, re!ig on, laws, reve
nues, taxes, naval and military ftrer.gth*
9 The genius, manneis, customs, and ha"
bitsof the people.
10. Tneir language, learning,arts,fciences,
manufactures, and c^fiimetce.
11. The chief cities, ftruftures, ruins, and
artificial curiofit'es.
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
distances of principal places from Philadelphia.
To zvhick are added,
1. A Geographical Index, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Table of the Coins of all nations, and
their value in dollars and cents.
3. A Chronological Table of remarkable
events, from the creation to the present time.
By WILLI4M GUTHRIE, Efq,
The Agronomical Part corrected by
D'. Flittenhouse.
To which have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herschell,
and other eminent Astronomers,
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrcfted, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firft volume contains twenty-one IVlaps
and Charts, besides two Astronomical Plates,
viz.
i. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world.
3. Europe. 4. Asia. 5. Africa. 6. South.
America 7. Cook's difcove'ies. 8. Coun
tries round the north Pole. 9. Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway, so. Seven United Pro
vinces. at. Austrian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. 13. Seat of war
in France. 14. France divided into depart
ments. 15. Switzerland. 16. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
18. Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19. Ire
land. 20 Weft-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22. Ar
millary sphere. 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
the press, will be given the following Maps s
1. RufTia in Euiope and Asia.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
5. China.
6. Hindoftan.
7. United States.
8- B'itifh America.
9. State of New-Hampshire.
10. State of Mafiachufetts.
11. State of Connecticut.
12. State of Rhode Island.
»3. State of New-York.
i 4« State of New-Jersey.
15- State of Penufylvania.
*6; State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
*9- State of Kentucky.
20. State of North-Carolina.
2x. TennefTee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23* State of Georgia.
TERMS.
1. This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
2. Subscribers pdy for theprefent volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (56 cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the fuc<eeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
tet dollar eacfi, or else, when finilhed, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The fubfeription will be raised on the firft
day of June i 794» to fourteen dollars, ex
clusive of binding.
5. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
4. The names of the fubferibers will be pub
li(hed as patrons of American literature,
arts, and sciences.
It is wholly unnccefTary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American readers, that this edi
tion poflefles, over every imported edition of
any system of Geography extant. The addi
tion of maps of the several state •, procured at
a very great expense, and from the best ma
terials that are attainable, speaks such full
convi&ion on this fubjeft, that it would be
difrefpett to the reader's understanding to
suppose it requisite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
similar work have such maps beenever intro
duced. ,
Tbe i amd addition? which are
made in this work,are innumerable,and occur
in every page. The jnibKc are referred to
the preface for a £ight {ketch of a lew ol
them..
The publisher takes the present opportn
nity of returning his mod sincere thanks to 1
thole vClpo&abfte characters who have favored
hiua with documents for improving the maps
of fevera! of tbe flatts. He requests a conti
nuance of their kinduefs; and hopes that such
public ipirited citizens, as ate poifeiTed ol li
ra ilar documents, will -favor him with their
a&ftance ia perfecting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which be has been favored, lias excited
| in his bread the warmest sentiments of grati
tude—-feotiments which time will not elfa'cc.
He pledges himfelf to the citizens of tbe
United States, to ipnre neither pains nor ex
peofe to render the present edition of Guthrie's
Geography improved, defer ving of their pa
tronage. waitt
Loft at the Theatre,
IN Chcfnut Street, a handsome Shawl, com
monly called Camels Hair; worked with co
lours. Whoever will return it to the Pi inter,
(hall reccceive a handsome reward.
March 12, 1794.
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased,
The House N°. 245,
AND
Lot of Ground
On which itftands, wherein James Biddle
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
street, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet 10 inches in
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold fub
je£l to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their successors
forever. For terms apply to
SamuelCoates,
Jonathan Jones,
Anthony Morris,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, dec'd.
*eop 3W
March 1, 1794.
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street:—
A few Bales of Ruftid Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Brimstone,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. 20,
Lately Published.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street :
THE History of New-Ham pihirc, from the
Difcovcry of the River Pifcataqua—by Je
remiah Belknap, D. D. 3 Vols. Price in Boards,
4 Dollars.
The Forrcfter, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Clothier.
Prce, 75 Cents.
A Discourse, intended to commemorate the
Difcovcry of America by Christopher Colum
bus; delivered at the request of the Hiitorical
Society in Mafiachufetts, OSober 23H, 1792,
being the completion of the Thud Century,
since that memorable event. To which are
added, Four DiHertations, coimefted with the
fubjeft—By the fame author. Price, 50 Cents.
March 17. tuth&^w
A Slitter of Iron
WANTED.
A MAN well (killed in rolling and
flitting Iron into Sheets, may have
good encouragement by calling on the
Printer. Feb. 27. eop4t
This Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement —-The Subscription
encreafes daily—Advertifmg Favors are
folicited —These con/litute an ejfential Item
in diminijhing the Debit fide of the Account.
FOR SALE,
By MATHF.W CAREY, No. 118,
i Market-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery:
Designed to exhibit in a new point of view,
its effe&s on morals, indujiry, and the peace of
society. Some ta&s and calculations arc offered
to prove the labor of freemen to betmuch more
produQive than that ot slaves ; that countries arr
rich, powerful and happy, in propoition as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the ntceflaty conclusion, that
slavery is impolitic as well as unjufl.
Price 25 Cents.
February 15
WANTED
AN APPRENTICE
To the Printing Business, Enquire at this
Office.
NO RR IS-COURT,
Back ol" tbe New Lijrnry, between Cuefnnt
and Walnii-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLYi nforms his friends and
the public in general, that he cominnes
carrying on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-(hutters,dont in the most
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders From the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
Excellent CLARET,
In hogO*eads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA
In pipes, hogtheads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
No. Nt, South Froot ftrect.
Jan. a, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE BY
M.Carey,No. 118,High-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sitings and
Subjects, ivhicb are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the world.
THIS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all ciajTcs of people, merchants, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
work acquired, that it has parted thro three im
pressions in the eastern states, and many houle
holders deem it so ufeful as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theii families. ■■Price 2s.
February 4. dtf
Just Imported,
I In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Peterlburg in Rufiia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
ANI) FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-street.
diw3ta\vtf
March 4,1794.
War Department.
January 30 th 1794.
INFORMATION is heicby given lo all the
military invalids of the United States,that the
sums to which they are entitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become dive
on the sth day ot March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Com mi (Boners of the Loans
within the Hates refpe&ively, under the usual re-
3»aw6w
gulations.
Applications of executors aod administrators
must be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpc&ive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prcfidciu
of the United States,
H. KNOX,
Secretary oj War,
The printer# in the refpe&ive Rates are
requested topublilh the above 111 their newfpa
pcis for the space of two months.
January 30.
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representatives,
December 21ft, 1793.,
WHEREAS the Commiilioners of public
Account*, have reported, that they can
not proceed to the investigation of the Treasury
Accounts, refpc&ing special Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cii
culation -Therefore,
Rcfolvcd, That all holders of special Indents
be direftcd, and required, on or before the full
day of November n xi, to deliver the special In
dents in their pofltflion to one or other of the
Commissioners of the Treasury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to to tbeCoin
mifiioners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
them refpeftively received, and also to the Le
gislature, at their meeting »n November next,
and that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, lhall be, and the fame are
heteby barted.
Rejolved, That public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, un.il the fiift day ot
November next. And that the Delegates of this
State in the Congrels ol the United Siates, be re
qucfted to cause this rclolutton to be publifticd
in one or more papeis in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York., and that provi(i*n will be
made for the expenccs attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be fenl to the
•Senate for their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SANFORD DART, C. H. X
In the SENATE,
Dec imb i r 21 ft, 1793.
Refo/i'cd, That this Houle do concur wuh ihe
Houle in the foregoing reso
lution*.
Ordered, That the refutations be lent to the
House ot Rcprefentatives.
by order of the Senate,
FtLIX WARLEY, Clerk
cwtNov.
JOHN VAUGHAN,
d2m
Jwfl Imported,
From London, Dublin, and Glasgow,
And now opening for sale,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, MarketJlreet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following:
NEW Annual Kegilterfor 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the RomanEmpira
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty,a collection of elTays
Varieof Prullia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintofii
Rufiell's ancient and modern Europe
Langborne's Plutarch
Elegant extra&s, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Button's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taffo's Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of fe'irds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of liudfon's Bay
Preston 011 masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Netker on executive power
Kiffcs of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immaterialifru
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's Sketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion;, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhoufc dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. & 11 Id.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels intoDenmark,Ruflia,Poland,&c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham *
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of midh*
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cieghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise or fevers
Lee's botany/
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's diflertations
London practice of physic
Bell's surgery
ChaptaT's chemistry. d
For Sale by the Subscribers,
MUSCOVADO Sugar in hhds.&bbsl.
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, in pipes
and quarter calks.
Spanilh Indigo.
Boston Beef, in barrels.
And a small invoice of Muslins.
NALBRO' & JOHN FRAZJER,
No. i6a, South Front-street.
March 8 ■ ftnw4W
PHILADELPHIA :
P*i»te» by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourtk-Strcet.