>»
EVEN I N G
[No. \os of Vol. V.]
For Norfolk & Fredericks burgh,
SALLY,
John Earl, Matter.
A ftauHch good veflf 1. will fail in a few
days. For freight or p.fToge, apply to tl.e
matter on board at Chefnut street wharf, or
10 JOSEPH JNTHONT r d SON.
March w.
For Sale or Charter,
ANDROMACHE,
(•^■ n American bottom )
John Moore, Majitr.
JS a ft out good vefTsl, abolit two years oW,
burr hen 232 ton*, has only made three voy
ages, and may be sent to sea at a final! ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-ftieet wharf,
and the terms m d.• known by application to
WHARTON <S LEWIS.
dt»"
mfterdam,
The new faft-failjng, copper
p- ,%if"'V bottomed SHIP
mm ADRIAN J,
rtiMi. K. f itzpatrick, Master.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and' was in
tended for a-Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient fpefd. For freight or pillage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
TfiOS. U JOHN KETLJND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land if required". i
March 6, 1794. dtf
Jull Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland' Duck,
S Ditto Oz.naburgi^
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Barries,
Glass Ware, -viz. Tumblers and Mugs, -va
rious fixes.
SK'aihing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, EsV. (Sfc.
FOR SALF. By
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
Th: above-mentisned Ship is for Sale—
Should application be made •within a few days.;
qtjierwife she will take freight for Amjler
dam.
March 1, 1794. d—tf
The Profits arifingfrom the following publi
cation are for the benefit of the Poor.
Just puUlifhed, printed by R. Aitken
Son, and fold by J. Crukfhank, W. YounS
T. Dobion, and the other Booksellers,
MINUTES
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed on the 14th September 1793, by
the Citizens of Philadelphia, the Northern
Liberties, and the Diftrift of Southwark,
to attend to and alleviate the fufFerings of
the affliftcd with the Malignant Fever,pre
valent, in the City and its vicinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
A lift of persons admitted into the Hospi
tal at Bnlh-hill, flic wing the times of their
admifljon, death and discharge.
Number of Houses, Deaths, 4c/ in the
refpeftive streets, alleys, and courts in the
c;ty of Philadelphia, Nm thcrn Liberties, and
Diftri& of Southwark.
A lift of the Interments in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia, Northern
Liberties, and Diftrift of Southwark, with a
meteorological account of the weather.
A fumniary of donations in cafli and provi
fions, received from sundry persons and pla
ces, for the dO of the poor and affli&ed.
A P ri ' 2- d3w
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible fituation,—alio a Country Seat
within 6 miles of* the City, with 9 acres of
Jand, or 42 acres ot Jand and meadow, the
House is not exceeded bymany in the vicinity
of the city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
January 23 m&tli—tt
iof ttje Ifttufei Jpf
A PERFECT
Affortmcnt of Hanging Paper,
hieh coloured and plain.
White fiik Stockings, high drelfed and put
up Engltfti fafhion.
The handfoineft artificial Flowers and Fea
thers.
Some Looking Glass Plates to be fold by the
cafe.
A few hampers of* Champaigne wine fix
years old.
ALSO,
An elegant parcel of
Bearikin MuiTs,
And very beautiful Silk which on
account of the season will.be fold low, aud at
a long credit.
likewise
42 pipes Madeira wine,
and a few casks ot Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
He twill have for sale,
'.T
A general-assortment of
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn hats, fans and carabmks, claret in
cases, a quantity of window glass well sort
ed «f all size , and a few pair of remarkable
LoojcingGlafTes framed, all arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
March 22.
Old Lisbon Wine of a
fupcrior quality in pipes, imported in the Ihip
\Yil nington.
OLD CHERRY WINE of the firft quality
in quarter calks, imported in the brig "Nancy
capt. Gwin. frcm Cadiz-
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RAISINS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIFFE WINES,in pipes
hhds. and quarter casks, imported in the ill ip
Thomas, capt. Skinner.
A few quarter casks of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who has also, just arrived and for sale
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lijbon Salt.
A quantity of empty BAGS for sale.
April 5. diw w&sim.
OF the mouev robbed from the mail near
Bahimorr, by Doftot Gant, no dollars were
afterwards lent by an unknown hand, to the
Postmaster at Baltimore, who transmitted
the fame to the General Post Office. The fuf
ferers by that robbery are desired to state the
amount of their losses respectively, and trans
mit the fame, with the original letters of their
correlpsndent j (where recovered) or other
evidence thereof to the General Post Office,
before the firft day of June next, immediate
ly after which a dividend will be made among
the claimants.
Poji Majler General.
Gen. Post Office, April 4, 1794 iaw6w
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street :—
A few Bales of Ruflia Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of l®w-priced Cotton Handkerchief*,
A Quantity of Sauchong'Tt-a, Hyfou and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
dil
With a Variety of other Goods. * o fl
20 - 3taw6w of
Loft last Night,
Between Second and Seventh streets, a
Red Morrocco Pocket Book,
CutainingJ a few private letters and a bill
of exchange, dated Charleston, March
drawn by John Minnick on Philip Care, in fa
vor ot Sims White, which can be of no use I
to any one but the owner, whoever has found I
the fame, antl will deliver it at Israel Israel's '
Inn, fhallbe handi'omely rewarded. J
April 9. , 4t |
Tuesday, April 15, 1794.
IMPORTED
In the Brig George and Harriot, from
Havre de Grace,
AND FOR SALE BY
Louis Ojmonty
FOR SALE,
JV THE SUBSCRIBER,
ADVERTISEMENT.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
A, h D
A D V E RTI S E R.
Excellent CLARET,
In ljOgUcatis -rtd hi cafe* of 50 battles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
111 pipes, hoglheads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
No. in, South Frout itreet
Jan. 2, 1794. ;
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Mai ket-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery,
Dcligncd to exhibit in a ne\v poini ol view
ii* efte&s on indujtry, and the ftucc of
focuty. Soipe ta£fc& and calculations are offered
iq prove the labor oi freemen to be much more
productive than that ot Jtaves ; that countries are
itch; powerful and happy, in proportion as the
Üboruig people enioy the jryUs of their own
labor ; and hence the mctflaiy conclusion, that
slavery is impQluic as well -S unjuji.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
Februaiv 15.
The Public are cautioned to
b&ware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
J'e-vtral of "which have appeared in circulation
•within a fe<w days past ; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be dijtbiguijhed by the following
MARKS.
Frve Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL thai have appeared have the letter F.
for tueir Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture oi' the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more ficely than
the genuine paper.
The O. m the word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters ot that word,
io that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touoh the top of the M. wouldtxtend con
liJeiaoly above the range fti the whole word-
In the word Umtetjl the letters are narrow
erand closer together than th* reft of the bill
Ihe zaird fin the word promile are not
parallel, the _/"inclining much mora forward
Jhan the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the ftiokes
of ail the Letters are fttoiiger and tile devil!
iu the margin particularly is much cuailer and
appears darker ihan in tlie true bills. Some
81 the counterfeits bear date in 1791 —WliCTer
as the Bank was not iiJJ Decern
her, and no five dollar bills were ill'ued in
that year.
T<wenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have ihe letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the cuuuterfeit Five Dollai Notes
above defci ibed ; the engraving is beite* exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through ihe woid Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, are mnumbei thir
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve ip
ihe counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as defer ibed a
bove, the 0 being lets than them, and ethers
tallowing.
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left band at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are so cut asto give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and thej' go
ing below them.
The Signature J. Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamp black and
oil, and differs from the other inks used in
printing the bills and the calhiei's lignature.
It is supposed ihefe forgeries were, committed
in furne of the Southern Stales, as all the coun
terfeits ihai have appeared, have come Irom
thence, and two persons have ■been apprehend
ed i|i Virginia, on Ijfpicion ps being ihe authors
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid toatiy Person or Persons who shall
discover and prosecute 10 convi&ion the several
offenders of ihe following descriptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufactured
the paper on which (lie Bills are printed.
The person or pedom, who engraved the
plates.
1 he printer or printers, ®f the hills.
Every person who has ailed as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Pre&dent
of the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Res*
peftive Boards.
Philadelphia, 1794- dtf.
*'* * t
JOHN VAUGHAN,
[Whole No. 565. j
Philadelphia.
From Correspondents•
France is now regenerating her marine—it
is expected that in one year from this, Hie
French navy will confilt of upwards of 100
fail of the line. Should this country enter ill
to the war, we may expert the most power
ful succours from our ally. At leail a fleet
of 30 fail of the line, and 10,000 veteraji
troops. Such a force will be absolutely neceT
fary to effedtuate the reduction of Canada
a measure which every diclate of policy
will urge as eligible. This plan will keep
the United States at a proper remove from
the vortex of European pplitics !
There is plenary evidence daily laid be
fore the public, to ftiew that all tli-e vexa
tions, spoliations, and depredations of the
British cruiffrs on the commerce of this
Country, are the most plcafing, grateful
and consoling circumstances to a certain
set of politicians, that could possibly have
occurred at this junflure. Under tlic
guise of ineafurps to affeit and support the
rights, dignity and independence of the U
nited States, the most deadly ftrnkes ar.e
aimed at the existence of the Constitution
—the credit—the union, and the internal
peace of the Country. Measures of real
energy in coiijundtion with those which
common sense, and common prudence
would didlate, and which the sober reflec*
tions of every ieal Republican must ap
prove, meet the rnoft pointed and invete
rate opposition. The tru« meaning of
tins condud is* —that except internal con
vulsions should fuccetd the years of peace
and prosperity which we have enjoyed un
der the auspices of the genferaj govern
ment, another opportunity for fpecate
tion will be foreclofed—and the people
will continue to think, that those who
have been perpetually telling them that
they are governed by rogues and villains^
Congress of the United States.
House of Reprefentativas
Substance of the remarks made by Mr.
Giles on Mr. Dayton's resolution for
the fequeft ration of all debts due to
the British fubjedts.
( Concluded.)
Mr. Giles fai'd, he knew nothing of the
change of the minijtry—the principle was
unknown here. The people here were
their own governors. It was immaterial
to them, who the minister was. Even in
the coun try where the people were lefa
fortunate;where ministers govern:a change
of ministers never produced any solid ad
vantage to the nation—lt was iriefefy an
expedient of the moment to imother a po
pular clamor. But even proceeding upon
the gentleman's hypothecs, whifh Mr.
G. thought wholly inadmilEble, whether
a passive submission by foreigner to the a
■vancious regulations of a minister, be the
most likely mean to render him unpopular
at home I—On the other hand, whether
if was not the most effectual mean of pre
serving his popularity and of keeping him
in office ? He prefumcd the people at
home, would never complain of injuries
abroad, if those who sustained them refuf
-63 to complain. It is but by resistance
and throwing the burthen upon the peo
ple orf England tliat they can be brought
to complain.
But in cases of such extremities as the
present all appeals to the people of Eng
land are futile and degrading. Our only
rcfource Jbould be in our own exert'wns.
They would be abundantly fufficient if
we could be brought to believe it.
Mr. G. remarked, that the people ol
Ireland had lately afforded an inftrudtive
leflbn upon this point. They had arms
in their hands for the purpose of asserting
their rights; under th,e idea of acquies
cence and submission, they had surren
dered them to the government; perhaps
under the expectation of a change of mi
nistry. Did this ait of submission ren
a
V" vder them mere refpe&ah'.e in the cyis of e
the people of England ? did it encourage t
the hopes of those who wished the t'fta i
blilhment of government upon the prim
ciple of equal rights ? did it render the
people of Ireland mure rejpettablc in the
eyes of the people of thj United States ?
To these qiielticins it was unnecefTary to
give an anivver. The people of lieland
reaped the usual fruits of- lubmilfion—in
fult and impositions.
There was another consideration ftrong
lv in favor of the policy of the proposed
measure : Applications have already
made from different paits of the United
States by the immediate lufferers from
' the British depredations, for an indemni
fication of their lodes. These applica
tions will probably be increased, repeated,
and continued ; t he agricultural and other
interests of the United States will proba
bly never consent to equalize this burthen.
The claim of the fufferers upon the gov
ernment, will gain additional weight, un
less this fund lhould be offered to them
for their indemnification. This is the ob
vious, the natural, and the rightful fund
for their indemnification, and he thought
it was at least the duty of the government
-so hold it as a pledge for their security.—
If this measure lhould not now be adopt
ed, the refufal will lay a foundation for
further parties in the UmtedStates; which
may ultimately have a fen'ous effect upon
the government.
An objection of a very delicate and in
fluential nature, has been made to the
proposed measure, which required some
cOnfirieratian. That it would affect the
ch:: rafter and credit of the government.
He had viewed this objection with the
m.ift deliberate and felt the
whole force of its impoling delicacy ; but
was at length, perfectly fatisfied that it
was unfounded. This objection relates
rather to the right, than the polity of the
United States to adopt the measure. If
the United States polt'efs the right of re
prisal upon an honest and found interpre
tation of the laws'of nations; if the con
duit of Great Britain towards the Uni
ted States be fufficient to juftify the exer
cise of the right—he beleived the policy
of exercising the right could never tarnish
the American character nor lefTen the cre
dit of American citizens hereafter. The
world of nati.'ns as well as individuals tfill
easily fee, that it was a measure Of com
puifion not of choice; that alt-hough the
United States believed, they regretted the
necessity ; that they were not the authors'
o'~the original wrongs; that they "had borne
them with the greatest patience; that they
had used their endeavors to prevent the
commission of them ; and tlrat when these
wrongs were commmittcd and repeated,
the United Stares pofTeffed no other means
of redress.
Under these circumstances, from the
exercise of a substantial right, he did not
believe there could flow any consequential
wrong.
The motive would be looked at, and it
would furnifha compleate exoneration from
blame, whilst the original aggressors would
become justly responsible for all the confe
cucnc'a.
Mr. G. said he could not fit down with
out making some remarks upon the fruits
of the conduit heretofore observed by the
U. S. The most pacific system has here
tofore marked the character of the govern
ment—all America looked upon the late
proclamation of neutrality, as a competent
guarantee for peace. He had 110 doubt
but that it was dictated by the purest re
gard for peaee. But what have been
the fruits of it ? He did not mean to con
demn the conduct of the executive. Per
haps it was suggested by the then existing
state of things. He only intended to
(how that it had not met with the return
it merited, and which was reasonably ex
pected from it.
It has not producedpeace.—A regard for
peace has been construed into a fear of
•wqr. A resistance of the feelings of the
people for the cause of France, has been a
palatable food for British arrogance and
preemption. Submifiion to agreflibn has
invited new aggressions; appeals for justice
have been deemed testimonies of debility ;
till at length the U. S. after having been
ft ripped of their citizens and property are
upon the eve of a war, becmife they have
not exerted their rights at an earlier period.
If this conduit lhould have been hereto
fore wife and pacific,'experience has taught
us that it is no longer so ; nothing can be
expected from the justice, the honor, or
the moderation of a court, which haspror
' V 55
eikitfelf equally a ftraflger to tKem all—
but before such a tribunal ajquiefeence 1
; will beget injuries,, injuries will beget in
uhs, and insults will beget contempt, de
gradation and war.
(£/" hi th: two preceeflmg Gazelles, <
publications of these remaris have peen inad
vertently headed as olfrjuiions on the naval
armament bill.
Thursday, April 10.
Mr. Clark's propoftiion for Jlvppi'ig ,e
commercial inlercourfe between the Uni
ted States and Great Britain under con
sideration of the Committee of the whole
—Mr. Sherburne in the chair.
Mr. Sedgwick said he was sorry to rife
unprepared as he was —as he had yefter
d?y occupied as great a portion of the
time of the committee as perhaps he was
entitled to. He had hoped some other
gentleman would have rifeii who having
better arranged his ideas than myfelf, had
a preferable claim to the attention of the
committee; unprepared as he was, he
could not permit a question so important
as. that under consideration to pass with
out entering against it his solemn protest
—a question involving the dearelt inte
rests of our country, and threatening to
exchange the unexampled proiperity it
had for some years enjoyed, for all the
horrors of war.
He said he the more regretted the part
he was obliged to take 011 this eccafion be
cause he feared he lhould in his v*;te di
vide from many gentlemen whom he much
refpefted ; but as his opinion had been
formed on mature delitfferation, neither
his honor, his conscience or the duty he
owed to his country would permit him to
be fifctit. If the evils he forefaW lhould
result from the measure under coi.fidcra
tion, he wilhed it might be known that
no part of them could with justice be im
puted to him as their author. If there
fore, he should be so unfortunate as to '
stand single,. and alone, h*would not fail
to oppose as far as he could, the measure
before the committee.
That injuries unprovoked and inexcuf
ablc had been infii&cd by Great Britain
on this country, was acknowledged by all.
No man ftflt stronger indignation than
himfelf at the insults which had been of
fered to our country —and the wrongs
which had been done to our citizens—no
man was lei's disposed tamely to bear the
haughty and unprovoked aggreftions of
any foreign nation—no man would go
further to procure redress for our wound
ed honor- and indemnification for our in
jured citizens—lf after seeking repara
tion in the way dictated by prudence and
and humanity, happily prescribed by the
modern usages of civilized nations, and
commanded hy the principle of religion.
If fair negociation lhould be tried, and
justice not obtained, he would then seek
redress by the means which God and na
ture had given us.
He remembered well the miseries and
vices of war—a war in which he had taken
a part. It was a war of honor and inte
relt ; he well remembered its cirumllances
and effects. He had lived to fee the
wastes of that. war repaired—to fee a
state of order and security—to fee his
country progrefling in all the means of
happiness—No man who loved his coun
try and rejoiced in its prosperity, would
consent but from inevitable nfceflity to fee
it again plunged in the horrors of war.
Although all combined in opinion that
our injuries were great—that they must
be redrelfed, yet no one had suggested
that war should precede negociation ; re
fpeiting this there was happily but one
opinion ; on every fide of the house it
was acknowledged a duty indifpenfible in
our present situation to state our com
plaints of injuries to the authors of them,
and to demand redress. We were only
divided as to the manner of our applica
tion, and the circumftnnces under which'
our demand should be made.
He had already on another occasion ta
ken the liberty to declare his opinion of
the line of conduit which was dictated by
our present situation ; that we should ma
nifeft that we were averse from war ; .but
should it become inevitable, we would en
counter it with that undaunted: fpii it
which became freemen, insulted in their
honor and injured in their rights. He
had the most perfect confidence in the
bravery of our citizens. At the fame
time that he knew they would never sur
render their rights, he was sensible that
they would avoid if poflible an urinccef
fary and wanton effufion of blood.
9 \. ' r- % » '
Gentlemen bed disclaimed t.n iBUr. t:cn
to adopt any any mezlures tending to war;
they had said this meafiire had no ten
dency to iuch an event. I his allertion
he could not believe, because.this measure
contained a threat of inconvenience ; and
every threat of inconvenience; was a cause
of irritation, and every irritation between
nations who had already differences to de
cide undoubtedly tended to widen the
breach and of course to produce war.
If gentlemen were iincere in their de
clarations, that all differences between
America and Gieat Britain Ihould be
terminated by peaceable negociation and
he would not call their fmcerity in ques
tion. If Great Britain was proud,
haughty and insolent as the had been re-i
peatedly denominated, was it probable,
he alked, that (he would be more inclined
to do us justice, by inlilliqg her pride and
insolence against us ?
Mr. S. said that the late 'violences by
which the property of our citizens had been
plundered, was the immediate and avowed
cause of the prcLnt measure. That as yet no
reprefentatiryi of these injuries—no demand
for compensation had b en made—That such
representation and demand ihou'd precede
hostility was conceded by ail. It only, then,
remained to be considered in what terms and
manner such claim ihould be exhibited ? In
terms, he said, doubtless firm and decided,
hut if it was intended to produce the desired
cffeil, of peace, and to prevent .hostility the
language ihould be decent and ccnc.liaiory.
He called on gentlemen to ihew an instance
in modern times, where a nation complain
ing of injuries but desirous of peace, had ac
companied their demands of juft.ee with
threats of inconvenience ! The opposite prac
tice was universally eitabliihed and on the
known principles of human nature. He ap
pealed to the feelings of every honorable
man in the committee, whether demands for
justice and reparation for injuries were en
forced by threats ! Whether repugnance to
a compliance with fach demands was not
created by ftich means ? If every man felt
the operation of this principle, iiow much
more powerful would it be on the minds of
the Governors of a naoon, lined proud and
insolent ?
He said he would charge no man with an
intention to involve this country in all the
horrors, and defoiatiug scenes of war. He
could not hpvvever help declaring, that war
or amicable negociation evidently mull decide
the controverlies between America and Great
Britain, and that was his mind determined
on the former, he Ihould recommend rhofe
nicafures which gentlemen had brought for
ward to the confederation of the houfc, as
the molt operative means of rendering the I
, event certain, and of baniihing every prof
pett of accommodation. To leize on Bri
tilh property, to confifcate qr lcquefter Bn
tifh debts, to annihilate as far as in our pow
er her commerce; to itarve her manufac
tures, and to humbie her pride—these were
infallible means of defeating negotiation, and
of uniting as one man, that natuon-againft us
in all the views ci" her adminiftraiion.
It had been laid, that a principal benefit
to be expected from the inllicu.ion of repub
lican government was, that cool and temper
ate reflection wouid direct the conduit of
nations. How far our conduit on this occa
lion had verified such an expectation, he
wiihed gentlemen to reflect. He had hiiti
felf fondly hoped in the government of this
country, to have leen thelc principles exem
plified, and all intemperance 6£..'cxpr>:lhon,
and all the heat of paiiion baniihed. It had
been said, that a statesman ihould be all intel
lect ; never i'urely was a time or country
which more required, than the pjefent time
and this country, the exoiciie of cool tem
per, to the exclusion of passion, to conduift
with fafety the political machine thro' sur
rounding dangers.
He well remembered a former non-impor
tation agreement, he remembered too its ef
fects—they were such as might have- been
expedted—they were such as to convince
every cool and conhderate man that the mea
sure itlelf was impolitic and unwise. It im
mediately raised the price of all articles of
importation to an exorbitant and extravagant,
height. Hence it was immediately beneficial
to importers and fhcpktepers, and hence it
may be easy to understand why this rrui lore
was said to be so popular in Philadelphia and
other great towns. But as the reprel'enta-'
tives of the whole people of America, the
Legislature ought to reflect that in pro
portion as this measure would operate bene
fit to the dealers in imported commodities,
it would become burdenfbme and opprefiive
to those who are best entitled to our regard,
? the fubfiantial yeomanry of the Country, on
whom we mult principally depend for sup
port in the arduous conflict which we had
too much realon to apprehend. If we must
eventually support our claims by arms the
more property we could import before the
commencement of war, the more beneficial
would it be. In that cafe the m oft wife and
prudent policy would be that, which would
give the greatest extent to our cretiit; and
on the contrary, the mod unwise and wretch
ed, that which would tend to deprive our
people of the ordinary means of supplies.
If this system (liould prevail',were we to
receive Britiih produ&ions through other J
.. '» * x
I
.couetriea? Tin's «vou!d be injuring ocY
frivti without aifedUng Great Britain.
'Was there aay otfcr country which could
give us,the -ame supplies We wanted?
There certainly was none. Where we to
depend on ouffelves alone, the inconveni
ence would, be great, if cot .intolerable.
What he further aihed, would become of
our produce in the event contemplated ?
Without entering int* a minute detail, he
said, he would pronounce that
a great part of it would perish or. our
hands.
It was he said, doubtful how far at any
time the proposed system might go to dif- '
tress Great Britain ; but at this time it
would alToril facility to her in recruiting
her fleets and armies; were manufacturers
and laborers thrown out of employment,
and thereby deprived of bread, they would
be alike stimulated by want and despair,
to fight the battles,of their country against
those who had reduced them to neceflity.
In Ihort, he saw nothing which fnouid
stimulate the legislature to adopt this tnea
fure, but passion without, and resentment
within the walls. He saw nothing in the
system itfelt, as it refpe&ed Crent Bri
tain, but vain, and ineffectual irritation,
nothing in relation to our own country,
but defeat, wretchednefa and want.
(To be continued.)
Foreign Intelligence.
LONDON, Janu.-ry 17.
Amounts from every quarter confirm the
rep. •fa or a French fquajron having been
tor tome time in the Chi.me!, iufulting tire
Britiih flag, and laying her merchantmen un
der contribution.
DUBLIN, January 12.
Extract of a letter from Plymouth Dock,
January 14.
" This day the Pilotte cutter, Lieutenant
Gunter, with the armed tenders the Brothers
and Britania, arrived here from Ram-Head j
they had convoyed so far a fleet of merchant
men from SciHy bound to London ; the arm
ed velleia beiniv ordered to this port, the mer
chant ships, contrary to the advice of the
naval officers, continued their csuri'e unpro
tected, and were laken three hours after their
separation, by fix French frigates.
" The French Tquadror. was chafed off
Startpoint by two line of battle (hips, but el
caped ; during the chafe they were met by the
HinJ frigate, wf.® defended herfcif
men of war, belonging to lord Howe's fleet,
hove in fight ; orj the appearance of whith,
the French crowded all their fail for Cher
bourg witff their prizes, which conG/led of
fi'tten proififiv>n {hips, from Waterford, a
Welt-Inuiaflaan, and a South Sea vessel."
From the London Gazette.
Whitehall, January 15.
This morning fir Sydney Smith and
Major Muncrief-arrived at the cSice of
the right hon, Henry Dundas, his ma
jesty's principal Secretary of State for the
Home Depart men t, with dil'patches from
Vice-Admiral lord Hood hnd Major-Ge
neral David Dnr.das, of wiiich the fol
lowing is a copy.
Vifl&ry, 11'ieres Bay, Dec. 20.
Its is my duty to acquaint you, that I
have been obliged to evacuate Toulon,
and to retire from the harbor to this an
chorage.
It became unavoidably neceflary that
the retreat should not be deferred beyond
that night, as the enemy commanded the
town and Ihips by their (hot and Ihells. I
therefoVe, agreeable to the Governor's
plan, directed the boats of the fleet to af
fenible by eleven o'clock, near Fort la
Malgtie, and am happy to fay the whole
of the troops were brought oft to the
number of near 8000, without the loss of
a ; and in the execution of this ser
vice I have infinite pleasure in acknow
ledging my very great obligajions to capt.
Elphinftone for his unremitting zeal and
exertion, who saw the lafl man off; and
it is a ver.y comfortable fatisfadlion to me
that leveral thoulands of the meritorious
inhabitants of Toulon were flickered in
his majeltv's ships.
I propofc fending the Vice-Admiral
Hotham and Colby, with feme otherlhips,
to Leghorn, or Porto Ferrara, to com
plete their wine and provisions, which ran
very wort, having many mouths to feed,
and to resraift with the rett to block up
the potts of Toulon and Marseilles. Cir-'
onmftjWK'es which had taken' place made
the ret rest absolutely necelTar 1 to be ef
fc'fted as in.m as pofiible, and prevented
the execution of a fettled arrangement for
deiroying Hie French llypa and arfens!
I ordered * '-ie V'.ilcr.n ; to be primylfand fir Sydeey Smith, who joined
me from Smyrna about a formght a*o, ■
having offered his Cervices to burn the
ft"ps,°l put capt. Hare under h.ss orders,
with-the lieutenants Tapper and Gore, ot
the Victor;, and.lieut. R. W. Miller, of
lh , \VLn.tfor Cattle. Ten of the enemy 6
(hips of the line; in the arsenal, with the
in iiV houfc, great store houfc, hemp> W,
and other buildings, \Vere t6ta.lv deft y
Tid before dav-light all h» nyi|edy » ,
with thoW of Spain, and the two
s x e « were out of the reach ox the ene
my's .'hot and (hills, except the Robust,
7hi h was to receive capt Eiphinjon,
(he followed very soon after, without
Ant her. I have under my or
ders Rear-Admiral in the Com
, 1 ~ \j irfeilles, Puiflant and Pom
*rX,z. f.i-nte:, and fcveral large cor
vett;s, which I have manned, and an
cloved incollefting w.ne and provisions
from the different ports in Spam and Ita
lv having been constantly m want of one
species and another, and am now at (hoi t
3iloW3itlCC* . in i_
J)»n Langara undertook to deuroy the
{hips in the Bason, but, I am informed,
r ound it not practicable ; and as the Spa
n'ifli troops had the guarding the powder .
veiTcls, which contained the powder of the |
(him I ordered into the Bason and Arse
nal on my coming fere, as well as that
from the'diftant magazines, within the
enemy's reach, 1 requested the Spamth
Admiral would be plcafed to give orders
fnr their Wing scuttled and funk ; but in
stead of doing that, the officer to whom
that duty was entrusted, blew them np,
by which two fine gun boats, which 1 <¥"-
d-r d to attend fir Sydney Smith, were
(hook to pieces. The Lieutenant com
manding one of them was killed, and (e
---v ral feimen badly wounded. lam for.
rv to add, that Lieutenant Gcddard, ot
the Victory, who commanded the seamen
upon the Heights of GralTe, was wound
ed but 1 hone andtruft not dangeroufiy.
I beg to refer vou for further particulars
to'general Dundas refpeamg the evacuation
of Toulon, and, to fix Sydney Smith as to
the burning the enemy's fhips,Sec. on which
fen-ce he very much diftmguifhed himfelf;
and he "ives great praise to captain Hare, of
the Firdhip, ns well as to ail the Lieutenants
employed under him. .
It is with very peculiar fatisfadhon I have
JiomJ" to acquaint vou,. that the ulmoft
' harmony, and most cofffitf undemanding,
has h-.rpilv fuhfifted in his majesty s army
and fleet, not only between the officers of ad
ranks but between the Seamen and Soldiers
a I herewith transmit a copy of Sir Sydney
Sro'th's letter to me, with a lift of the of
ficers employed rnder him, and -dfo a return
of officer- and seamen killed and wounded
at Fort Mulgrave on the 17th. .
I have the honor, &c.
HOOD.
P. S. The lift of the (hips at Toulon that
were burnt, and those remaining has been
received since writing my letter.
Rt. Hon. Henry Dundas.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 15.
A letter is published in the Cornier
Francais cf this morning, said to be a li;J
teral copv of one received from New-
York, dated 26th March—and among
other things, contains the following ar
ticles of information, viz, That twp ships
of the Line and three frigates arrived at
Port-au-Prince from France,the 6th March,
having on board Mcflis. De Letombe,
Painiere, Le Roy and Pagefe, who are
lent out to replace Sonthonax & Polverel,
that M. Le Roy and Pagefe with a strong
escort are gone to Cayes to arrest Polve
rel. After securing Port-au-Prince, M.
Le Tombe (ailed with the fleet for Jere
mie, where he arrived the 12thMarch;
and surprized and took two Englifli fri
gates, and three privateers, which were
in the port; the EngHlh garrison were
made prisoners of war, and nearly all the
inhabitants are taken and embarked on
board the fleet, to be sent to France, to
render an account of their conduct. The
fame thing happened at Jeremie as at Tou
lon, one part of the people as soon as
they saw the fleet, turned their arms a
gainst t'i j other, and were the cause of a
feeble rcfiftance.
A motion was this day made in the
House of Representatives to strike out
the several fpecifications contained in the
Resolution passed ycfterday in committee
#
W
of the whole for (topping'the commercial
. intercourse With Great Britain.
Tnis inoiion, after some debate, was
with4ravrn —Jnd was succeeded by ano
th>r for the previous queltioin—whether |
the main question Hull be now put—fur- j
thcr debata ensued—the motion for the j
previous question was at length put and
loft, 53 to 44—and the House adjourn
ed without deciding on the resolution, as
reported by the committee of the whole.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman at Vi 'l
ming'ton, to a refpeilable merchant ot tiiis
city, April I4> 1 79->•
" Captain ArtguS arrived here this morn- I
intj from Guadaloupe, but last from Antigua,
where he was carricd into by a privateer,
but liberated in consequence of the last m
ftru<ft:on3.
" Captain Angus brought me a letter
from Capt. Willis, of nd March, by which
I find they had released his vefiel two days
before, he had fold his flour at 3-4 dollars,
one half rum, and the other half cafn, but
did not expect to obtain permillion to ftll
the lalt provisions at Antigua but would
probably go to St. Bartholomews, or St Mar
tins, to diipofe of his pork and beef, and lay
out his money in sugar."
1 Extra <5t of another letter dated Brandywine,
I 4th month, 14) 1784-
1 »We have the plealure to advise you,
that Capt. Angus has just arrived from Gua
daloupe, he was carried into Antigua, and
released underthe Uteinftruaions from Great
Britain—several veflels,all that were not con -
demned at Antigua were released, amongst
them was a schooner belonging to our neigh
bor, I. B. he has letters from Captain,
confirming the above account.
At a meeting of the Philadelphia Con
tributionfhip, tor insuring homes from lois
by fire, the following gentlemen were
chosen, viz.
Directors.
Gunning Bedford, George Roberts,
Richard Wells, Joseph Pafchall, Thomas
Morris, John Moreton, Mordecai Lewis,
Pattifon Hartft©rne,SamueWDoates, John
Perot, Samuel M. Fox, David Evans.
Treasurer.
Samuel Sanfom. .
We, the fubferibers, declare, that we
left the Island of Dominica on Sunday
the 23d March. That at the time of our
departure*, there were thirty-five American
veflels condemned, all which condemna
tions took place previous to the arrival of
the second order from Gjeat Britain.—
That wheii the said fecoira oftfer did ar
rive, the Judge requirjri ofail owners and
agents of (hips of war and privateers to
give bonds for amount of the sales of t'hrofe
veflels and cargoes that had been condemn
ed, that the agents of the men of war
did give surety agreeably to ast of parlia
ment, but the agents,and owners of pri
vate vefiels refufed to comply that
they acted under authority of government,
and if they had given wrong inftruftions,
of course government must abide by the
consequences.
On the arrival of the second instruc
tions, the court had met from day to day
without doing business, but it was the
prevailing opinion of all clafles of people
there, that all those veflels taken under
the former instruCtions would be condemn
ed.—
And that after the investiture of Mar
tinique by Admiral Jervis, and no more
American veflels coming from Martinique,
all the small privateers, such as had for
merly been drogers, and unfit to cruize
at a distance, and such other veiTels as
were wanting to load home to Europe,
were called in ; it is to be understood,
that no orders weie iflued from the admi
ralty, or from any other authority, for
difinantling the private fliips or veflels of
war.
WM. HAWKES.
JOSEPH POOLE.
Phil. April 14th, 1794.
Copy of a letter from Capt. BARNEY,
to a Gentleman in Congress.
" Kingston, March 4th, 1794.
" Sir,
" I wrote you on the 2id, informing
you that the Britilh seemed determined
to ruin the Americans, &c. Since which
time a number of Americans have been
sent in, some of them directly from A
merica, loaded with lumber, who have
now a lawsuit to go through, the expen
ces of which will require the whole car
go of each to pay. Many of them are
obliged to abandon their veflels, having
neither money nor friends. Yoiir brig
John is libelled a a French pr«p-r>y, but
that is merely a form, to cover fouie other
reason. Mr. Is goi 'g to make a
elate), but was I in the lartw fituatwn,' 1
wouii abandon all, a tic) come home, be
in" well convinced all will be cot.J.Pnii*
ed.— ■
" Ycilerday 1 was to have been tried,
but the court have adjourned till the loth
init. They tantalize me with ''We have
" caught you at lafl,' and we will take
" ;Tood care you (hall take no more vet
" fels; we wish the others may foil into
" pur hands," &c. Now, Sir, I wish to
relate to vou a piece of the greatest im
pudence and insult I ever heard of: Yes
terday the American (hip MaffachVfetts,
Capt. White, arrived ; (he was taken on
her passage from Bourdeaux to New-York,
by the letter of marque (hip Jame's, Capt.
Wilkes. On her coming into port, Capt.
Wilkes ordered the British ensign to be
Lb'tjltd over the American enjign, in which
situation it remained all day. This insult I
to the nation ought not to be fuffeied.—
Satisfa&ion, by the puiiifhment of that
Captain, is the leait that can be demand
ed, and was it on our fide such an affront
had been given, the nation would have had
more ample fatisfaclion.
" I hope, fir, tho' that you and Mr.
do not agree, oil the British trade &c. I (nail
fee you among the firft to support the credit
of our flag, when insulted in such a manner.
If you were to be only four hours riere, you
would fee more into the deiigns of the British
than all the information that can be sent to
you by letter; reft allured of this serious
fz'A, the more you humble the inoreyou may;
th:y are determined, and you have nothing
i lore'to do, than instantly prepare to meet
them: Now is your time; (too your piovi
fions and lumber, and they will soon render
you juilice, but let me beg of you to embar
go the American vefi'els, iu order to keep
vour seamen, or the British will have them
all." I am &.c.
Joshua Barney.
For the Gazette of the United States'
Mr. Fenno,
Please to give the following a place in
vour paper, and oblige
A Friend.
I OBSERVED in Mr. Baehe's paper, a
long firing of Resolutions published by the
Democratic Society. A Society which I had
for some time contemplated to join, suppos
ing that good might result therefrom, but
" npijl observing that the tendency a»d design
I op those resolutions is evidently to inflame
i the minds of msny of the citizens of the li
nked States, and viewing them as held up as
a Rod to awe the government of my coun
try, and that Congress may be driven there
by into a premature war with fevefal of the
powers of Europe ; lam brought to a pause
at this moment, and shall omit joining the
society, and shall continue to stand aloof un
til I am convinced that they do not mean to
ait as Dictators, yours,
A True Republican.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 14.
Extract of a letter from Lisbon, dated
Feb. 12, to a merchant in this
city.
" I am now waiting for a convoy which
is granted t}V the Queen of Portugal to
the American vefftls to fail on the 27th
inft. Yesterday week arrived a Portuguese
fehooner from Gibraltar which brings
news of the Algerines being out of the
I Straits in great numbers; two leagues
from the rock of Lisbon she spoke with
three Algerine cruizers—a fliip oi 40
guns, and two brigs of 18 guns each.
Twenty-three fail of American veifels are
here waiting for the convoy, which Con
sists of two 74 guns ships, two frigates
and three brigs which are to proceed as
far as the Western Islands.
Extract of a letter from a Mercantile
houjfc" in lisbon, dated February 11,
to a merchant in this city.
" We refer to ours of the 31ft of Octo
ber, and hope you notice our advices
with respect to the Algerines, and that af
j fairs will be soon arranged to make your
navigation free to Europe—At prelent
the Algerines are out—we are very sorry
that you cannot enjoy the benefit of our
present very good prices."
t —
BALTIMORE, April 12.
Extract of a letter from Cape-Fear, North
Carolina, to agentkman in this town,
dated April 1.
\ " This day a boat landed near this
place, from a privateer (loop from Ber- j
muda, in order to collect flock, from |
I - 1 .' " /
which John Simfon, fai'or, a native of
South-Carolina, made his escape—lie in
forms, that fail! (loop was on a cruise to
capture all American vefl'els; that he had
repeatedly heard the Captain fay his or
ders were such, and that he had been in
formed by his owners that private orders
had arrived at Bermuda the 20th March
fcr that purpose, ami that (he was to cruise
between the Delaware stml Chehipeake
i bays, for inward and outward bound vef-
I lels, American or French.
" A filhing boat is just come in ; the
crew of which informn, that the above
(loop was this day token by a French
schooner, which stood off to the south
ward with her-prize."
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Brig Union, Martin, New-York
Norfolk, Rice, Charleflon
Sloop Humming Eird, Clark,
1 lie S'aip Sampion, Capt. Reflet er of Phi
ladelphia, is arrived at Chester, ill 4 nicnths
from Canton in China.
By a velfel arrived this day from Anti
gua, news is recived that all the American
' veifels carried in there which had r.ot been
condemned, have been rclealed, amounting
to upwards of 30 fail.
Capt. gxfitter failed from C>r.ton the 15th
December, he kit there the ,
Capt. Magee from the north-weft ooaft of
America—rhe fliip Wafhingteii, Capt. Ran
dall, and the fliip America, Capt. Howell—•
the two firft expc&ed to faii in about fix
weeks, Capt. How ell in abcut three weeks —
Capt. Lee in the (hip Fair American, failed
.from Canton for the Cape of Good Hcpe
and Amsterdam the firft of November
Lord Macartney, the Briiifli ambafiador
with his suite, had been to Pekin the Capi
tal of China, where he had been well receiv
ed, and the rich presents he earned had b; tit
ac.ep^ed —He was on his return with hfs
suite, from p*kin ( to Canton by land -and
was expected at the latur place the aoth De
cember.
Mr. William White, who went out surge
on of the P: mpfon, died five days after the
ihip left Canton.
'The Ground Flan
of the
City and Suburbs
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM ACTUAL SURfST.
IT is with ;>!eafuie that ,t}iepub)ifher lias to
inlorm his tubferibersand the public in gene
ral, that the p'ate is now under the hands of
the engraver, and iti greater forwardnrfs than
was at firft contemplated. At the fame time
he begs leave to riiptud them, that fubfciip
tion papers are iiiil at moil of the noted
book-ftoies in the city ; and that he hopes
from the whole of them robe enabled to so: m
such a reiperfable catalogue of names, as will
d-< a credit to the work, as well as ifrford a
le.ifonable encouragement to the undertaker.
Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, Market llreet.
April 14. m&thtf
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MOR.ROIV EVENING,
April 15.
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, written by Mrs. Cowley,
called the
Belles Stratagem.
Doricourt, Mr. Chalmers
Hardy Mr. Moms
Sir George Touchwood, Mr. Whitloclc
Flutter, Mi". Marftiall
Saville, Mr - Green
Saviik's fervt. Mr. Darley jun.
Villprs Mr.Cleveland
Courta'll, Mr. Moreton
Gentleman, Mr. Hu'wood
Cibfon, Mr. Worrell
Dick, M '- Ffancis
Letitia Hardy, Mrs. Morns
Mrs. Racket, Mrs-Shaw
Ladv Frances Touchwood, firft time
Miis Oldfield
MifsJ Ogle, Mrs. Francis
Kitty Willis, Mrs. Rtjwion
To which will be added,
A FARCE, in 2 arts, (Written by the
Author of the School for Scandal) called
Saint Patrick's Day ;
OR THE
Scheming Lieutenant.
With an occafienal Oveature, coippofed by
Mr. Reinagle.
-- ' /,t inconveniences to the public have
arisen from the Box book heing open or. the- .
davs of performance only, in future atEendc
ance will be given at the office in the 1 he..tre
every day from ten 'till one, and on the days
6f performance from ten till three o'cSlcckin
the afternoon. Application? tor Box'-?, iti*'
Irefpo&fullv may be addrdicd, to
Mr. Trankliri- at the BoxOtnce.•c
i-
PhilwMK.l*, March.,' 1794. |
JUST PUBLISHED,
Bf MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market Jlreet,
i Hi. FlilST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography :
OR, A
Geographical, HJlorical, and
Commercial Grammar-,
And present state of the teveral
' NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAINING,
f. The figures, motions, afld distances of
the planets, according jo the Newtonian sys
tem and the latsft observations.
2. A general view of the earth, confrdered
as a planer; with ieveral ufeful geographical
definitions and problenw.
3 The grand diyifions of the globe into
land and water, continents and islands.
4. The situation and extent of empfcts,
kingdoms, states, provinces and colonies.
5. Their climates., air, foil, vegetables,
prc/duftiGns, metals, minerals, natural' curi
osities, leas, ri bays,capes, promontories,
aud lakes.
6. The birds and beasts peculiar to Men
cauatry.
, 7. Observations on the changes that have
been any where observed upon the face of na
ture since the most ear|y periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations; theit
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
mjes, -ta?cs.s, naval and military ftiength.
9 The genius, inanneis, cuftoins, and ha
bits of , the people.
10. Their language,learning,arts,fciences,
and commerce.
It. The chief cities,.fttuftures, ruins, and
artificial curiosities
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, anc 1
liitances of principal places from Philadelphia
2T
alliances UI pi i >«c tjjdi piacc:> »i k nii«uvij/«»— i
To which, are j
j. A Geographic al Index, with the names ;
and places alphabetically arrange*). i
2. A Tabl £ of the Coins of all nations, and !
their value m dollars and cents.
3. A Chronological Table of remarkable
events, from the creation to the prelpnt time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Aftrotiomical Part corre&ed by
D . Rittenhouse.
To wnich have been addetfj,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herschell,
and .)thj' eminent Astronomers.
' The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrc&ed, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The fiKt volume contains twenty-one Maps,
and Charts, beiides two Agronomical Plates,
viz. '
i. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world.
3. Europe. 4. Asia. 5. Africa. 6. South-
America. 7. Cook's discoveries. 8. Coun
tries round the north Pole. 9* Sweden, Den
mark, Hofw.ay. :C>. Seven United Pro
vinces- 11 Aufti'ian, French and Dutch Ne
tberlurKls. 12. Germany. 13* Seat of war
in France. 14. France divided into depart
ments. 15- Switzerland. 16. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. Spain and Portugal.
18. Turkey jn Europe and Hungary. 19. Ire
land. 20. Weft-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22. Ar
millary sphere. 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
the pre ft, will be given the following Maps :
1. Russia in Europe and Asia.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
5. China.
6. Hindoftan. *
7. United States.
8. British America.
9. State of New-liampfhire.
10. State df Mafl*achufetts.
11. State of Conne&icut.
j 2. State of Rhode Island.
i - State of New-York.
j4* State of New-Jersey.
15. State of Pennsylvania.
j6. State of-Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
20. State of North-Caroljna.
21. Tennessee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina".
23- State of Georgia.
TERMS.
j. This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (56 cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the fuaceeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when iinifhed, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The fubfeription will be raised on the firft
day of Juae 1794, to fourteen dollars, ex
clusive of binding.
5. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.*
6. The names of the fubferibers will be pub
-1 ilhed as patrons of American literature,
arts, and sciences.
It is wholly unneceflary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American readers, that this edi
tion poffefles, over every imported edition of
any system of Geography extant. The addit
tion of maps of the several state.-, procured a
a very great eKpenfe, and from the best ma
terials that are attaiuable, fpcaks such full
conviction on this fubjett, that it would be
difrefpeft to the reader's understanding to
suppose it requilire to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
si mi far work have Tuch maps beenever intro
duced. »
The emendations and additions which are
made in this w*irk,are innunierab e y and occuj
iu every page. The public are referred to
the preface for a flight Iketch of a few oi
them.
The publisher takes the present opportu
nity of most fin cere thanks to
those refpeftable tharafters who have favored
him with documents for improving the maps
of several of the dates. He requests a conti
nuance of their kindness; and hopes that such
I public spirited citizens, as are poflefTed of il
imlar documents, will favor him with their
alliftance in perfecting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
winch he has been favored, has, excited
in his breast (he warmest sentiments of grati
tude-— sentiments which time will not efface.
He pledges himself to the citizens of the
United Srates, to spare neither pains nor ex
penfe to r ender the present edition ofGutlvric's
Geography improved, deftrviiig of their pa
tronage. waft*
Scheme of a Lottery,
r 0 raise 39*900 Dollars, o« 266,000
j Dollars, deducing 15 /><?/' Cent. from
! Prizes—-tins Lottery confifls of \
38,000 Tickets, iff winch there are
1 4,539 Prizes and 23,461 Blanks,
and an half Blanks to a
| Prize.
THE Dire&orsof the Society for eflablifhing
Ufetal Manufactures, having lefolved 10
crt-61 LOTTERIES for raising O.neHumdked
Thousand Dot lar s, agreeably to an A£t of
tiie Lrgifljture ot thr State of New-Jerley, have
appointed the following persons to fnprrimend
and direfct the drawing of the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rufus King, Herman Le Roy, James
Watlon, Richard Hamfon, Abajah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city ol New-York. —
Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew bayard, of the city of 'Phila
delphia—His Excellency Rt.qhaid Howell, Elq.
Elias Boudinot, General El as Dayton, Jam s
Pa ker, John Bayard, Dott .r Lewis Don it am,
Samud W. Stockton, Jolhua M. Wallace, J feph
Bloomtiv ld, and Elilha Boudinot, of N w- Jer
sey, who offei the following Scheme of a Lot
tery, and pledge themselves to the public, that
they will tak< every affurmce and precaution in
their power to hav? the Monies paid by the
Managers, trom time to time, as receivtd, into
the Banks at New-York and to
remain for the purpofeof paving Pnz s, which
(hall be immediately difchargtv by a check
npon .one of tho Banks.
SCHEME:
1 Pnzeof 20,000 Doliau is 20,000
1 10,000 10,000
2 10,000
5 2,000 10 000
10 1,000 10,000
2 0 500 I**,ooo
IGO 100 10,000
300 50 15.000
1000 BO SO,OCC
2000 15 30.00 C
3000 1 2 ,'j6,oo<
ir bt,oo<
ames
14,539 262,000
23,46* Blanks. First drawn "number, 2,000
Lad drawn number, 2,0c0
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
The drawing will commence, under the in
fpe&ion of a Committee of the Supermtendants,
as ioon as the Ticket* are fold,oI which timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendants have appointed John N.
Cumming, of Newark, Jacob R.
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, o
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample fecurityf for discharging the
trust reposed in them. (
(f3T In order to secure the pun&utl payment
of the„Prizes,the Superintendants of vhe Lottery
have directed that the Managers fhali each enter
into bond»tn 4c, 000 dollars, with four fufficieni
fecuriti s, to perform their initiuftious, the fub
(lance of which is
I. That whenever cither of the Managers
shall receive the sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he {Hall imnidiately place the fame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit ot the Governor of the Society, and such
of the Superintendants as live in the city where
the monies are placed, to remain theie until the
Lottery is drawn, for the payment of the Prize*.
&11. The Managers to take fufficieni lecurity
for any Tickets they may trust, otheKwife to be
refponnble for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ftra£U of which (hall be sent, monthly, to th<
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle
men, information will be given where ticket
may be had.
Februar tn&ftf
H-
Just Imported,
In the/hip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peterjburgb in RuJ/ia, and now landing at
Riijfell'3 wharf,
HEMP,
BAR IROK
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And for sale at the (lores of the subscriber in
WalDut ftrcet, No. 22.
'John Dcnnaldfon.
diw w6c tf
April 4.
CJ* This Gazette fiall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement—The Sulf riptkn
encreafes daily—Advertising Favors are
foliated —These cenjlitute an ejfential Itim
in dimin'fhing the Debit fide of the Auowt.
To be fold by Public Vendue*
The 19th liifiant,
At the Cofefe HovSf.,
At Seven o'clock in the Evening,
By oriier of the Keftor, Church Wardens and
Veftrv of the United Epiicopal Chjirthes
of Chnlt Ajhijrth and St. Peter's ChurcU in
Phibdelphia, .the Trustees of theUniveifi
fy, and ne Managers of the Pc(tnfylvan»
Holpiisl,
. The House and Lot bequeathed
by the last Will and Testament ot James
Stoops equal proportions to the
a' ore institutions, being
House, No. 20,
Whe ein Joflph bpencernoiv livtswellfitu
ated for I'Blinels, on the weft fide of Third
(beet, about midnav between Market and
Arch street. It is 17 feet front upou Th rd
itreet, and the lot is 132 feet deep
The pmchafer paying half purchase mo
ney on delivery of the deed, may have twelve
months credit for the remainder, on giving
good feenrity and payirg imereft.
THOMAS CL'MPSTON,
JOHN WILCOCKS,
Committee fur the SeAor,Church Wardens
and appointed to tell.
EDVVAKD FOX,
Committee for the"T7ni verfity.
JOSEPH PASCHALL,
SAMtfEI. C(DATES,
BARTHOLOMEW WISTArR,
Committee for the Peimfylvania Holj'ital.
April 14. ts
Concluding Sales.
THE Subscriber fraVirig entered into C<
partner (hip wrth Mr. John BjrthukmuAv i
the bufin«fs of Sugar Ruling, will diffof
of ihe
Remaining Stock on hand
CONSISTING OF
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, he. &c.
By Whole/ale at Prims Cojl for Cajh.
John Dorfey,
No. 22, North gd street.
April 12. tnth&l6w
Pennsylvania Hospital,
~1-h Month, Jtli I 794
• 1 J - ■ ' 7~r-
The Contributors are desired
,?> attend the Ejection, to be held at tjic
Hospttal on ihe sth/dav of the sth Month
next,at 3 o'clock iu the afternoon ;to cbonfe
twelve Managers and a T*E*scnrE*,
the fenfuing year:
By order of a board of Managers.
Samuel Coates, clerk.
ADVERTISEMENT.
SALES at NEW-YORK, by A. L.
BLEECKER & SONS,
On Thursday the 15 th May next at Twelve
o'clock at the Tontine 6offee House,
THE FALLOWING
Israels of Land,
111 Watkins and Flio 's purchase, in thecoun
i*ty of Tioga, state ot New York.
The containing acre;
Southwell quar. of Towd&ip No. 2, 9,424
Noithweft tlo. do. 4, 5,647
Northeast do. do. 6, 10,525
•Southwell do. do. 7, yj?o
Southwell do do. 8, 3,950
Northwest do. do. 8, 6, 53
Southeast do. do. g, 6,25 a
Sontheaft do do. i?, 9,000
Northwest do. do. 10, 1^,475
70,521
These lands are rapidlyeiicreafitigin
large settlements are already made in feveial
of the townfhip<; the goodness of foil, and
the advantages in point of situation being so
well known, render any further defenption
unneceflary. Amp of the Hafts and condi
tions of (ale may be seen at No. 10, Oueen
street, New-York.
April 10.
Thr following Certifi
rateof the funded three pir Cent.Stock of the
Domrftic Debt ol the United Statrs flinding on
the books of the Tieafurv of the said United
States, in the names of DonnaJdand Bur-ton of
London, meichanu, ami figmd by Joteph
Nnuil'e, Register of said TVtaftfrj, to wit :
dated 24 h Auguli 1792 tor
dollar., and cents was t'anfniitted from Lon
don in the Ihip Pctei, Pajn HulTey, mallei,
Dnund for New Yoik, and has been 101 l
The'Subfcriber intending 10 apply 10 the Tiea
fury of the Un*|ed States to have the faye rf.
newed, defiles all peifons who are >ntereft;d in
the said certificate, to make their objedtous
thereto, if any they hav .
Francis Macy,
Ph'tlad. March 27. '
WANTED .
AN APPRENTICE
To the Printing Business, Enquire at this
Office. .
St. Domingo Siffirers.
THOSE perfbt- sw ho undertook to collet
tie fubJcr ptK>n made for the relief of the a
bpve urtfo tunate persons, are rsyuefted to
complete th«rir ietun%'s» where they havt, not
already done it, and to deliver tlie lame with
any balance they may bold, into the funds oi
the Trrafurer, who will receive any fafrfcrsp
tion which remains uncollected, or any fxe(h
(ttjnation. It is hoped inttant attention w;Ji
be paid to this notice, to enable tjie commit,
tee ofd'^ to close their accounts and
give further relief toa.number of those per
sons fti 1 remaining here, whose iituatw>n i>
truly dfti effing.
By order of the committee of diftribitKni,
Robert Smith, Treasurer.
April <), ;794-
P. S. It is lequtited riie different Printers
wili.fi>r 9-few days, publilh the above.
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commifiions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, fecojid year of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
(March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
The IVlinifter Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCMET.
The .Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are rcquefted to republifh the
foregoing notice. 4
TO BE SOLD,
And rut- red upon 'he fi»lt o* May,
The noted F.Jlate, called
John [on Hall:
Lyt"g i" the MohA wk. country, ol New
t'ork, fofrnerly the feat of Sir William Joiin
!on, containing about (even hundred acres of
[and, which is of the \ery befl quality ; toge
ther with the ftoQk, and farming uienhls. The
buildings are large and (,ouvenient, and fit tor
a gentleman's feat. The payments will be made
eafv, on good (ecuruy. For'inther particulars
enquire of Mctealf, E'fq. on the premis
es, of Silas Talljei, fcfq. at Philadelphia, of
I Ward and Bro:hos, in New York, oc
>f the fubfenber in Providcnce.
jabez Bo we7i.
Phi lad. March 26
Lately Pubiifhed.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. SyrTfl S«eOM»-ST*ER^T
THt, fcWtory oJ Ni"w Hampfhue, horn th<:
D'fcovuy.of the R ver Pis ataqna—by Je
remiah Belknap, D. D 3 Vols. Price in Boards,
4 12 D 'lUix.
, T,h* Forrcßrr, in Amiicln f'tsfej heisg a
StoMtft£*W Bjiil tticCJiajhicr.
'VfCt, ■ ' ." - vf ,
A D ictjurfc, intended to commemorate the
Difcoytry of America by ChnUopher Col*«m
bui; delivered at ihe uquett of the Hillortcai
Society in felts, October 23d, 1792,
the> cr»mpleti<»o of the Thud Cenuiy,
lime that memorable event. To which are
addd. Fur Ditfcrtation*, cpnueffed with the
iu )j £t— By ihe feme author. ?ncr,.£o Cep.s.
March 17. , tuth&f^w
Just Published,
In one volume, iamo. Price 5s
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 4T, Second
Strft,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result trorp it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Cor reded and Enlarged,
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
ProtefFor of Moral PhiJofophv, anj* the Law
ot Nature, ai.d of Ecclesiastical Hifiory ;
and Miniiler of the Engiilh Chuich at U
tree lit*
Aliquid Temper ad commune m utilitatem af
fcrenduin. Cicero.
The Firji American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality, if right
ly undeiftood, is the only basis on which
u.nverfa! juffcice, sacred oider, and perleA
freedom, can be nily built, artl permanent
ly recured. The vewof it exhibited in th»s
eiTay, at the lame time that it reprefles the
inlblence of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages of oppreflion ; cowfis n s, in tVie
must forcible manner, the nceefijty of fiibor
dmation, and the jnft demands of IntvfuJ au
thority* So fjr indeed, from loosening the
bandt of lociety, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil dftinftion,
draws mpi e Cloiely every (ccial tie, unite* in
one harmonious and juftlv p ©portioned sys
tem, and brings men togetlteron the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obh aticn, and of a rom-
MOII relation to the comrpuuity.
IVtarch 18. eod I w n&ritf
tuth&s U4M
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed b X JOHN FENNO, No 3,
iw w & * i «n
AND FOR SALE BY
South Fourth-Street.
K