d fiielptoifeSi Urates
EVENING A D V E
[No. 46 of Vol. V.]
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegantHoufe,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an elig'Me fituafion,— —also a Country Seat
withir* 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres ot
i-*nd, or 42 acre"? of Jand and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
the city, in size or conveiuoi.ee,
For terms apply to the printer
January If,.
Daily's Hotel.
GIF FORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Coffee-lloufe of this
City :—
Rfc.SPECTFUI.LY informs his Friends and
the Public in official, that he has IHIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Skipper-Street, be
tween Thir'.l and Fourth-Street s» at (he House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timnrcon?, which
bas lately been greatly improved, and is now
very commodious; wherr he has lurnifhed hirn
fcll with 'he best of LIQUORS, and will fur
».»fh a TABLE for Parties, with the best provi
fitfii* the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
Ihorteft notice. From his long experience in
thislinrof bufine-is, he flatters himftlf be (hull
be able to give f;iitsla£lion to all who may pleale
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 90.1794.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Coldfmiths Jewellers y
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FpR SALE,
/In elegant AJfortment of
SILVER Isf PLJTED WJRE,
JEWELLERY & fine CUTLERY,
Which they will difpnie of on the nioft *ea
forta'ole terns. Devices in hair, Minintur.es
Jilt, and every thing in ti»e gold and iiivet
way, d»»re as *fual-
December 24-
Insurance Company.
Philadelphia, January 6, i 794-
NOTICE is hereby given to the members
of the Insurance Company of Nortij-
America, that the Directors have declared a
divide.;d (for the last fix months) of six per
Cent, on the amount ot the firll and iecond
inttalments ; and of one per cent per month
on the funis paid in anticipation of the third
instalment, calculating from the firft day ot
the month following that, in which those pay
ments were made. Tl»e dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders, or their representatives,
at the company's office, No. 119 lbuth Front
ftreet, at any time after the 13th instant.
By order of the Dirc&ors.
EBENEZER. HAZARD, Secretary.
Jan. 9. w&f.im.
This day is pubtifbed>
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Mark.et-.str e4t,
(Price a quarter dollar)
A short account of ALGIERS,
Containing a dcfcription of the climateof t(iat
country — of the manners and customs of the in
habitants, and of their several war* against Spain,
Trance, England, Holland, Venice, and other
powers of Europe, bom the ufnrpation of Bar
baroffa and the invasion of the Emperor Charles
V. t»> the present time; with a eoncife yiew of
the 01 igin of the rupture between ALGIERS
•nd the UNITED STATES.
Jan. 9.
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglVeads and in cafe« of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA
In pipes, hogftieadi and quarter calks,
for sale by
JOHN VAUGHAN,
Xo. ill, South Fro«i*itreet
Jan. a» »794
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-ftreel, Nur-Yo.!.
THE Subscriber intending to eonnne himlclf
entirely to the PURCHASE &t SALfc of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b<g. tea.e to of
fer hi* feivicrsto hi. Iriendj and otherj, in the
lipe o( a Stock Broker. Those who may please
„ favor him with their bufmefs, nay depend
, von having it „„frfUd««htb«u.moftfide-
4'oßon, or any
•ikrr Dart of ihe United Stacei, will be (triflly
leonarp BLOCKER.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
fL & P. RICE, No. 50, Market-ftrect,
also, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Market-fteeet,
CPrice, bound, 6/6\)
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story.
TO WHICH IS ADDED,
ni&th—tf
The Indian Cottage.
From the French of M* de St. Pierre.
4< THE above Stories have been lately pub-
ifflOngft the works of a very different
nature, bv M. dc St. Pierre, who resided 'w the
counny which it describes, and was well ac
quainted with the principal ta£ls. Its orna
ments are the Lannlcapc—the Climate—and
the natural history of the Torrid Zone, ohlci
ved -with the eye of Taste, and delineated with
the eve of Philosophical knowledge. It is a
Paftora'/of which the lablc a»d the machine
ry may be said to be eqnally real. To these are
advicd, the pure vein ol Moral Inftrutlion, and
the Sublime Ideas of M, de Sc. Pierre."
Feb', i. *4t_
lifli-V-
NORRIS-COURT,
Hack of' the New L'brary, between Chefout
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, 'that he continues
catrvingon the bufinePs
•Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likcwifc, JAPANNED PLATES,
tor doors or window-fliuttersjdonfc in tlie nioft
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from ti»e country \vili be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
Decembsr 30, dtf
War Department.
January 30th 17*94.
I INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military itivalids of the United State*,that the
4uiT|f to which they are entitled tor fix months
of tlicii annual petition, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on the sth day of March 1794, be P a on
the said day by the Commiiiioucrs of the Loans
niw&rftf
it hin the ftatcs re»pc£hvely, under the usual re-
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
wuft be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpc&ive offices, and also of the time the
ii.valids died, whose pension thev may claim.
By commana of the Prefidtnt
of the United S'afej,
The printers in the refpedive states are
requested to publifn the above in their newspa
pers for th£"fpaceof two monihs.
iniuiv to,
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Repreft rttatives,
December 21(1,1793.
WHEREAS the Cornmiflionersof public
Accounts, hive reported* that they can
not proceed 10 -the inve&igation ol the Treasury
Accounts, refpetting fpecval Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in jcir
culation Therefore,
Resolved, That ill holder* of special Indents
be directed, and requireq, on or before the
day of November next, to deliver the special In
dents in their pofleflion to one or other t>l the
Commiflioners of the Treasury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to report to theCom
miflionsr* on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
therm refpeftively received, and also to the Le
giflaturc, at their meeting in November next.
And that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, 011 or before the firft day
of November next, lhall be, and the fame arc
hereby barred.
Re jolted, That public notice of this resolution
be given in th« several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the firtt day of
November next. And that the Delegates»f this
State in the Congress ol the United States, be re
queued to cause this rclolution to be puDlifhed
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for the cxpcnccs attending such publica-
Ordered, That the rcfolution be sent to the
•Senate for their concurrence.
By order of the House,
December 81(1,1793.
Rejolved., That this House do concur w»m the
Houte of Representatives in the foregoing refo-
lutions.
Ordered, That the resolutions be lent to the
House of Reprefentarivcs.
By order of the Senate,
FLLIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov.
AND
Tuesday, February 4, 1794-
and Walnut-Streets,
H. KNOX,
Secretary oj War.
JOHN SANIORD DART, C.H. R.
In the SENATE,
CONGRESS
House of Rcprefenhil'ives.
January 23.
In committee of the whole on Mr. Mcdifen's
resolutions.
Mr. Dexter, after a number of intro
ductory remarks, observed, that if he
could fee the resolutions on the table in
the light in which some gentlemen had la
boured to place them, he (hould be one
of their most Zealous advocates. They
had been stated as tending to relieve our
navigation and commerce from unequal
and unreasonable rellri£tions imposed by
foreign nations, and to encourage Ame
rican manufactures. No man could have
these objefis nearer his heart than himfelf,
but he was not a little surprized to find,
from attentively considering the refuluti
ons, that their true tendency was not to
encourage American navigation, com
merce, and manufactures, tut thofc of
certain foreign nations, and by compelling
Americans to purchase at a dearer mar
ket, to ax them heavily for the benefit of
fonygriers.
was confirmed in this idea by fee
ing that the members from the eallern
Hates, which are particularly interested
in navigation and manufactures, as well as
thoGe of the bell mercantile information,
and who were actually engaged in foreign
commerce, were almolt unanitnoufiy op
posed to the Resolutions j though they
had been allured by the supporters of
hem, that they were to be peculiarly be-
nefited by their salutary operation. He
thought it very imprudent to diiturb the
present fettled and prosperous state of
commerce, which by documents before
the committee, appeared to be rapidly ad
vancing, and in lo doing to make import
ant and certain faciifices, when the con
sequent advantages were at best very un
certain. To commence a commercial war-
fare at the hazard of our trade, perhaps
our peace, for the benefit of flrangers was
ill his view, to betray the interelis of our
citizens.
that if it was intended to encreafe
the navigation of our country, it ought
to be done by discriminating duties in fa
vor of American (hipping, and not by di
minilhing the tonnage duty of vcffels of
■nations in treaty with us, as was contem
plated by one of the resolutions. Our
country had already experienced a surpri
sing increase of her navigation by the o
peration of this principle of discrimina
ting in favor of our ourselves ; and per
haps it might be augmented ttill further
by pursuing the fame principle.
Gentlemen, he said, had reprobated all
commercial reftriftionswithout considering
that this beneficial law of our country is
as truly a commercial reflriftion as the na
vigation ast of Great Britain. He con
sidered it as idle and arrogant, for Ame
rica to undertake to reform the commer
cial policy of the world.
All nations have laws regulating trade,
and we can neither persuade nor compel
them to abandon them. All we can do,
he said, is to malrefuch counter regula
tions as may consist with equal jul'tice, and
promote our own interest.
Mr. Dexter then briefly pointedout the
mode in which he thought manufactures
ought to be encouraged ; but he said the
resolutions had very different objects. He
proceeded by observing, that the body po
litic, like the natural' body, often suiTers
more from the bold ignorance of Quacks,
and the ingenious tho' falfe hypotlufes of
the learned, than from the malady com
plained of. The various pans of each
have infinite, minute, and inferutabk
relations and dependencies; and it may
be added that there is a natural effort i:-i
each, to relieve itfeff from difeale. He
said, he would purfuc this idea, and firfl
enquire whether the patient was lick, and
if it fliould so appear, then whether the
dam
S E E
R T I
I Whole No.
recipe on the table could proxnife a curs
If the Juvenile flute of our country is a
proof of dil'cafe, -then said he, our coun
try needs a phyfilSan-
He admitted that the cofnmerce oi (his
labors under numerous di fad van
tages, but he considered the most of them
as jieccfiarily resulting from our youth and
adventitious circumstances, rather thaii
from foreign laws of trade; and added*
that natural causes were constantly reliev
ing us, and rapidly pushing us forward to
majestic national maturity. In the mean
time wc ought to co ruole ourfelvts with
the thought, that though the succeeding
state of our country may be more fplen-
did, yet the present is probably molt vir
tuous and happy. It is in vain he said to
pant for premature manhood. To attempt
to obtain it by excess of nutriment would
only produce disease. Does the ftri; ling
he asked, take medicine because he is not
as athletic as his fire ?
Mr. Dexter further observed, that 6ur
duties on Briiifli ships, are greater alrea
dy than their duties on ours, and as a
consequence of this we fee that in the?
commerce between that country and this,
American tonnage has conflautly encrea
fed and Bricifli tonnage has as uniformly
decreased.. Indeed iince the pafiing or
the ast, imposing the e»ilting duties on
foreign bottoms, our own navigation has
advanced as fwiftly as we ought to wifb*
and in a much greater ratio than the Bri
tifli tonnage ever did in tire lama ipacc of
time under their idolized navigation act.
Thcfe fftsfts appear from ilatemems oit
the table from our own offices. The Re
solutions he remarked are called retaliato
ry. What laws cf trade of any nation not
in treaty with us, impose on us iifnilar bur-
thens ?
Tho' we are refentful towards Bufeui),
let us be just even in our pafiions. She
mules many important discriminations in
favor of our navigation and produce in
her European dominions, which give us
many valuable advantages there over other
alien nations. These good offices we do
not in any instance reciprocate. She makes
no difcrimir.utions a gam ft us, unlds to
protect her own produce ar.d mantrfa&me*,
or in pursuance of her treaties. We have
already done the fame to her. It is true,
and it is much the mo ft exceptionable part
of her commercial policy, that her {land
ing laws exclude our (hips from her Ifianus
in the Weft Indies, tho* they admit our
produce, and this forms a valuable part of
our exports. Spain and Portugal the laf
ter of which we are told we ought to fa
vor as much as pofllble, and even to except
the former from these resolutions, not only
refufe our ihippfng hut every article of
our produce in their Weft India lfiands.
This however does not justify Britain in
prohibiting our navigation to her lilands :
but it {hews that even here (he treats us
better than other nations, whose commerce
we favor; and {he treats us better than
{he treats other nations $ for their produce
and manufactures are prohibited. Per
haps these confidenftions added to the pe
culiar advantages we have in the Britilh
European pofTefiions, which we do nut re-"
ciprocate, to foften our resent-
ment
It is fcarccly neeefiary to mention here,
that the advantages referred to in Biitifh
European markets, are being exempt fiom
payment of foreign tonnage, and earn
ing there some importa.it articles of A
merican produce free ; whiie similar art i
cles frrom other nations are heavily cuti
ed, and also carrymj there feme impor
tant exp< rts, fubjett to much less duties
than similar articles froirt other fofeigr.ei s.
Thcfe remarks are accommodated tj
the legal and not the actual Rate of the
Islands; for the prinriple of temporary luf
penf.on of the prohibitory laws, wlrch :a
common to all of them, is so varioufiy a;v
plied, that we Cannot reason about it.
Mr. Dexter further said, that rt had
been repeatedly mentioned by the gentle
man who muved th« icfolutions.aud by
R.
s°4v)if his colli? , 'es, that a nation ought to
,'rrv in prupuvtn.-n to the hiilk of her tx- i
jrv'b. 'lliis rule he said not to :
uw out of the nr.tere of the tubjccl. I
c
V
The countries lurchargcd with inl.s.iiunt*
ought rather to afford carriers for the pro- |
ihice of more happy nations, Wanting j
the moans of fubfiftencc at home they aie
compelled to plough the Ocean for bread.
It might as well be laid that every nation
(hould manufacture in proportion to its
coiifumptiou, and that every individual
(hould praClife all the mechanic arts iie
may have occafiou for. I ins is one of the
eai lieft and mod imperfeCt ideas of com
merce : Doubtless we ought to encourage
the carrying trade for the important pur
pose of public fafety, but not to pursue
it as a source of wealth. When we pro
ceed beyond that degree, which is necef
(ary for public security, we diminish the
wealth, population and agriculture of our
country ; we reduce our yeomanry to be
hireling laborers for foreign matters.—Mr.
Dexter observed, that it had been said,
that the balance of our commerce with
Britain is much against. us ; this he agreed
is true, but he doubted whether the ba
lance of the aggregate of our commerce
were so. But even if this were alio true,
he said he (hould not be alarmed, as we
are a young country rapidly encrealing,
and the balanee against us might be viewed
as a loan from a foreign nation, and em
ployed by us in internal improvement,
which we can at any time repay, and re
ft rve a great profit thereon to ourselves.
It becomes capital in commerce ; it faci
litates our agricultural improvements. But
he added, that he was still less apprchen
five of danger from considering that the
nature of commerce forbids that such a
{lite (hould continue long enough essen
tially to injure our country. If we import
more than we export, the balance must
be paid in cadi or not paid at all. If it
be paid in caih, we soon drain our coun
try of specie, and what may then remain,
becomes from its scarcity more valuable
here than elit: where, and more valuable
than any thing we ran obtain for it in fo
reign countries ; and this at once reduces
juir imports to the amount of our exports,
or ftiii lower iu order to obtain a balance
in ipecie, which has now become the molt
valuable article. If we do not pay the
balancc at all, we soon lose our credit,
and there ends im]x>rtation. Revc,fe this
reasoning, and we flia'il be convinced that
we piufue a phantom, when we labor to
fccure a perpetual balance in our favor.
Caih soon becomes so plenty as to reduce
it* value, and consequently we exchange
it with foreigners for any gewgaws ; thus
v. e encreafe our imports until we lose the
furphis of currency.
We can no more keep it than we can
heap up water. It would be afelefs, nay
mischievous if we could keep it ; It would
enhancc the price of the neceflaries of
life , it would destroy that sober industry
and frugality, which form the loveliest
features in our national character.
We ought not then to wish for a bal
ance of trade perpetually in our favour,
or in other words for a constant increase
of currency ; but we ought to wish for an
increase of capital, and this is produced
as much by our imports as by our exports.
As then the exports from a country never
can for a long time greatly exceed its im
poits it follows that it is a mistaken po
licy to labour to lefien our importations,
because we thereby reduce our exports. —
The demand for them as a remittance will
ccafe, consequently they will cease to be
produced, and jdleivcis and poverty will
follow. Nature has made laws on this
fubjrrt which we cannot repeal.
But now, said Mr. Dexter, let us sup
pose what is in some degree true, that our
navigation and commercc are not in the
belt possible situation ; do the resolutions
afford a remedy. They cannot, if they
have no tendency to encourage either.—
They discriminate in favour of some fo
reigners against others, and compel us to
pay the difference of their markets, and
they leflen the duties on the commerce of
certain favourite foreign nations, thereby
lellening the.discrimination in favour of
our own. •
But it is said they will in their opera
tion, bv depriving the Britilh artizans of
the neceflaric* of life, and the raw mate
rials for manufactures, compel that nation
to open to us her Welt India ports, and
treat our nation more refpeftfully. As
so depriving them of the necessaries oflife
thev now refufe to take our provifions,and
this is one complaint against them : they
fc'ili aot fuffer more when we refufe to let
them go there. A time of scarcity only
can i'ive this effett, and none of the lefo-
lutions ordains a famine in Bntain ; a» to
depriving them of raw materials,we know
not how much other nations can supply
when a new demand ardes, neceflity opens
new resources ; in this way we may cre-
ate to ourselves formidable and permanent
rivals.
Can we diltrefs tliem by refufing to
take their manufactures ' From statements
bv tlie mover of the refolutiono, it
appears that we take only 4 per cent, of
the whole amount of Britifii manufactures
—Only the profit on this 4 per cent will
be loft by them, for the law materials
they are not to have from 115, and the la
bour of manufacturing will of course be
saved.
But even this profit will not be loft to
themi for by consuming the manufactures
of other nations, we (hall make a demand
in those nations, and Britiih manufactures
will go there to supply the place of those
we may take ; nay mere, we shall take
even Biitifh manufactures from other na-
tions, and the expence of a double voy
age, dcpofit, and cotr.miffion will be ad
ded to the Price of the articles. In the
mean time our bulky articles of export,
the value of which will not pay for the
enhanced expences of transportation, will
perilh ; being forbidden the usual market
and advantages.
Mr. Dexter asked, is this a time for
making experiments ? All Europe is in
agitation, and our commerce mult partake
of it ; we steer our bark on the margin of
a whirlpool j there are seasons when it
ought to latisfy us that we do not go
backward.
It is easy suddenly to do mifchief which
the wisdom of many succeeding years can
not retrieve. Mutual interett, the only
sure bond of peace, has hitherto prevent
ed a war between us and the kingdoms of
Europe ; shall we cut this bond asunder ?
It is laid we mav compel Britain to make
a commercial treaty with us; (he will ne
ver refufe voluntarily to make one which
may promote her interest, and could we
compel her to make cne against her inte
rest, it could not be lasting ; it mull end
in war.
We have had no fatisfa&ory evidence
that fiie is averse to a treaty. The cor
respondence between our Secretary of
State and the Britiih minister rather (hews
the contrary. I much doubt the policy
of. multiplying our commercial treaties.
A nation, which has more military strength
than resources for commerce, may compel
unequal stipulations in her favor. But
this we neither wish, nor are able to do.
We may fuffer by treaties, but can hardly
be benefited. Our strength confifls not
in ability to compel others, but in4>eing
invincible at home. If we are ever to
make treaties, let us wait until experience
shall have taught us all the commercial in
tercfts of our country. We areafcending
an eminence—let us firft arrive at the
summit; when we {hall have the whole
extensive profpeft before us, it will be
eaily enough to judge of the advantages
of our situation. We may now facritice
important interests which we fee not. Our
progreflion may make that a lading evil,
which we now call an advantage.
It is said we ought to resent the politi
cal injuries and insults we have received.
Is this resenting them ! If the queltion is
whether we shall retaliate hostilities, let
us have it fairly and boldly stated, that
we may consider it. Away with all mean
disguises—strip the question of its flimzy
covering. We surely are not afraid to
look at the fubjeft of difcuflion. We wilh
not to conceal it from others. Before we
take the lirit step, let us pause to review
our fitnation,'W consider the consequen
ces. How much have we to lo£e both in
pofieflion and profpeft, and how little to
gain ! Britain is aided by powerful allies,
who hate and defpifc our political fvftem.
Our former ally instead of aflifling us,
needs to be assisted. The commerce of
Britain is already interrupted by war, and
we can add little to its embarralTments.
Our commerce now flourifiling, must be
facrificed, as we have no fleet to protect
it. As to revenue, Britain has all the
advantages without the evils of bankrupt
cy. The principal of her debt will never
be paid, but her creditors are both inter
ested and able to support her. Addition
al millions are Ibft in the mass without per
ceiving the iocreafe.
To add a few millions of Dollars to our
debt would alarm both us and our condi
ments. British soldiers are enured to fo
reign warfafre. Our independent Yeomen
arc invinciblc in battle, for their rights,
their habitations, their wives and their
children; the world cannot fubjlgatc them.
but they harbor no wiflies for conquest or
plunder. If we commence tyftility, we
mull perfcvere through every extremity
of fuffering, or meanly prg (Irate ourfelvcs
at the feet of Britain, to bear whatever
(lie may please to impose.
When the welfare and dignity of our
country require energy, I fliall not be
found an advocate for a pusillanimous sys
tem. No man is more proud of his coun
try than rnyfelf. I agonize under the in
dignities (he has fuffered : But to repreis
resentment is sometimes true courage;
untimely passion, which may betray the
rights and dignity of the community, is
perfidious. Our growth is so rapid, that
a few years of peace will avenge us. 1
have made these observations Sir, not be
cause I am the friend of Britain, but be
cause a sense of duty compelled me. If
I have prejudices refpe&ing European na
tions, they are not in favor of Britain. I
hesitate not to avow that the}' are in favor
of the people with which fne is at war. I
can never forget, that probably by them,
we exist as a Nation. I can never forget
the noble energy with which they com
menced their Itruggle to rescue this coun
try from bondage. It is the place of my
fathers' sepulchres—no man more ardent
ly wiflies them liberty and happiness, but
justice obliges me to add, that no one
more fincertly laments that spasm of pa
tnotifm, which convulses their body poli
tic, and hazards the cause of freemen :
But Sir, we ought not to fuffer a torrent
of feeling to sweep us from our poll—we
are neither Britons nor Frenchmen—we
are Americans—the Representatives of
Americans—the Guardians of their rights
and interests ; and these forbid us to pass
the Resolutions now under consideration.
(Debate to be continued.)
For the Gazette of the Ukitsd States'
AT numberless meetings throughont
tlie United States, for taking into con
fidevation the Resolves of the Democra
tic Society of Philadelphia—Genuine Pa
triotism in the chair : The following re
folulions were unanimously adopted.
I ft. Resolved, That it is one of the una
lienable Rights of Freemen to dijenfs -with
freedom and firmnefs all fubjecls of public
concern: That in consequence of thiP
principle, these meetings have an indispu
table right to offer their sentiments con
cerniog the Democratic Society and its se
veral resolutions.
2d. Resolved, That the high profef
iionsof difmterefted patriotism held out
by the Democratic Society, are very
equivocal proofs of its public virtue ; and
that these are best discovered in the refo
tions which it has published.
3d. Rejoined, That it is extremely im
politic, as well as ungenerous, for any Citi
zens of America, publickly to pour
foith illiberal abuse against foreign pow
ers with whom we are at peace—merely,
because they are enemies to France : We
fay impolitic, because powerful nations
may thereby be irritated to attack us, to
whom we are by no means equal, either
in population or military preparations:
We fay ungenerous, because some of these
nations were our friends in the most try
ing days of our difficulties and distress.
4th. Rcfolvcd, That the public faith
being equally pledged to preserve peace
with Great-Britain as well as with France,
all persons or societies, who dire Sly or in
direSly, (hall endeavor to bully or trick our
country into a war with either, must in
tend a violation of our national honor,
and must therefore, be considered as ene
mies to America.
Jth. Resolved, That the determination
expressed by the Democratic Society, to
abide by our national engagements and pre
serve national friend/hips, when contrasted
with its insults against friendly nations, is
as flagrant an instance of its inconliften
cy, as the infinnation of punic faith against
our illullrious President, is a convincing
proof of its impudence and presumption.
6th. Resolved, That the conduct of
the French Republic in seizing our ves
sels, laden with provisions for the coun
tries, with which (he is at war, is as dar
ing fin infringement of the eflabfijhed law of
nations, as any that we have experienced
from other powers. Nay, this conduct
is peculiarly aggravating, as it is express
ly ftipulatt'd between France and, by trea
ty, that the vessels of the latter, thus la
den, (hall pass free and unmoleftcd.
7 th. Ri/ohed, That the outr.iges of
fered to our trade, or citizens, by Gieat
Britain, will probably be relented in a
much more proper manner, and redrefj
much more easily obtained by the spirited
conduit of our National Congrels, and
the long tried wisdom of our beloved
President, than by the fug
gellions, and noily declamations oi any
obfeure Society wifuing to bawl itlelf in-
to political consequence.
Bth. R'fohea, That the trade of A
merica has greatly contributed to her
prosperity and credit, and that tlus
having been greater with G'.'eat-Brritain
and her colonies, than with all the reft of
Europe together—its interruption at this
time, would overwhelm the agricultural
and mercantile inteielt in unfpeakubW
dillrefs. Neither could its loss, in any
proportion be supplied, by any commer
cial privileges in trading with colonies
overrun with banditti, and desolated by
incendiaries.
oth. Rrfohcd, That however Foreign
Minister* may be juflined, in adhetiug
flrictly to the inftru&ions of their own
Sovereigns, yet tliefe inftru&jnns are by
no means binding on the nation, to which
they arc sent; neither is any Miniiter au
thorized on that account, to affiont the
Government to which he is delegated, or
to look for countenance from the real
Friends of that Government.
I oth. Rejoined, That every Govern
ment has a natural right to interpret Us
own treaties—that we rely implicitly, on
the honor and abilities of our Executive to
do so—and that the fenfeof thcie United
States refpc cling our treaty with France,
has been abundantly collected and evinced,
not only by addrefles and resolves from
every quarter of the but also by
the unanimous declaration of Coogrefs.
11 th. Refohcd, That Imperium in Im
perio, or one sovereign authority within
another, is a fatal fulecifm in politics, and
incompatible with Liberty: We there
fore deem any particular Democratic So
ciety, rising in the midft.of our great De
mocratic Government, and presuming to
dictate to its conflituted authorities,
fraught'with the deftruftive materials of
anarchy, inimical to law and order, and
highly iufulting to the great body of the
people, who confiding in the wisdom and
virtue of their ovm delegates,
the advice nor interference ot felf-confti-
tuted societies.
12th. Rcfolvcd, That we are united in
the bonds of Civil Society, to resist with
equal vigilance the encroachments of Anar
chy, as well as of Despotism—that the
name of Liberty, without its blessings is a
delusive phantom—and that the grcateft
of these blessings are Security and Peace :
That the Despotism of a Mob, is as
tremendous an evil as that of a Monarch :
That to countenance either, is to incur
the execration of Mankind—and that
they, who wilfully plunge a Nation, hap
py as this is, in discord and bloodthed, ge
nerally give birth to one or the other of
these calamities.
Signed by Order jif the
Several Meet'tngs,
COMMON SENSE, Secretary.
From the New-York Daily Gazette,
MR. M'lean,
I read in an European Magazine as follows
" THE Quakers' Letter of this year,
instills some of the noblest principles of
Morality. That passage which inculcates
paying our full debts as loon as wears
able, (notwithstanding any composition
which creditors may accept of) ought to
be written in legible Letters, and presented
to every Bankrupt with his Certificate.—
It is the opinion of many honeH and judi
cious persons, that if a Law were enaited,
prohibiting every Jpedes of Luxury to such
as have been in a jlate of Bankruptcy, till
they had paid twenty (hillings in the pound,
it would be attended with excellent conse
quences—Vanity would prompt many to
this laudable conduct, in whose breail nei
ther Honor nor Houefty finds a place.
These Luxuries might be fpeciticd—fuch
as Plate, Carriages, saddle Horses, livery
Servants, elegit Fl'rniturc," &c.
FRANCE.
The effe&s of the late King, which
were burnt lately in thefquare of the Tgv/h
Hall, were mere neceflaries—A hat—a
fnuff-box, tortoise (hell, broken—iix suits
of cloths—a cloth great coat-—eight waist
coats, cloth, velvet, iilk, and linen—ten
pair of breeches—nineteen'white v.aid
coats, and a satin under wraiftcoat* some
white robes de chair,bre—fn - of (lip.
pers. i
♦Foreign Intelligence.
MANHEIM, Oitober 23.
The French are on the mountains near
Saint Marie aux Mines.
LONDON, Nov. 1
Major Calvert, of the guards, was late
ly sent by the Duke of York with a flag
of truce to Lille. The objuft of this
million is as vet unknown.
The heavy cannon of the combined ar
mies are deposited at Mechlin : this is a
fuve indication that no siege will be at
tempted before Spring.
Extra# of aletter, dated Brumpt, 0ft.21
" The head quarters of the Imperial!(ls,
which were at Haguenau, were removed
here yesterday. The army is encamped
before Straftnirg—that of the Patriots
still covers that city. Orders have been
given for marching, and a battle is ex
pected.
The following articles are extraßed from
the Paris Journals of oSober 23 d.
" F> am the army of the Eafteni
" Pyreunes, Oct. I i.
** Yesterday a chosen troo]: of Republi
cans attacked the enemy in the lail poit
which covers Bouloo- Every measure
had beer, taken by General d'Aouft, that
the furcefs of this attack (hould strike the
final blow to the Spanish army.
"The firft jbock. already announced
Tictory on our fide ; the French soldiers
having attacked sword in hand, had spread
dismay among the satellites of Caftille ;
but, 0, treason J O, perfidy ! some cow
ards fled ; and thus was the fruit of our
futee& lcift. The signal fcr a new attack
will soon be given, and the Spaniards will
be driven forever from the foil of the Re-
public."
On the 30th ult. the crew of the (hip
Nabby, Capt. Kennedy, an American
vessel, bound from Leith to Virginia, la
den with linen cloth, &c. put into Lough
Swilly, in Ireland, in great diilrefs. The
vessel notwithstanding (he was only twen
ty eight months old, sprung a leak, about
100 leagues W. of Tory, when the crew
nineteen men, and one woman, were obli
ged to take to the long-boat, in which
during four days and four nights, they
experienced the greateil hardships. One
man, hytband to the woman, was drowned.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
November 1.
Some citizens from the department of
Nievre, headed by the republican Chau
mette, procurator of the commons of Pa
ris, brought the result of their searches
in that department ; they produced a real
treasure, confiding of 17 boxes full of
gold and silver, both specie and plate, ayd
amounting to several millions.
The three citizens who came firft in,
bore two crofles, and a large croft enam
elled with vermillion.
The fourth brought a fun of gold,fur
mounted with a cap of liberty.
The fifth citizen brought in his hand a
gilt ducal coronet of filvcr. A member
demanded, and the ferjeants of the hall
were ordered to stamp upon it with their
feet. One of the ferjeants immediately
made it burst in pieces, by stamping up
on it ; upon which the convention and the
fpeftators all exclaimed, Vive la Repub
lic !
Louis demanded, that the large gdn
dolas or royal yatchs, and the state coach
es of the late court, be broke in pieces,
and fold.
Serjeant answered, that all tins was
now doing ; and that the commiflioners
entrusted with the sale of the royal effects,
had already disposed of the hearse in which
the corpse of the tyrants afed to be con
veyed to St. Dennis. —Order of the day.
Bairere, in the name of the committee
of public inftrufrion proposed a deci ree,
tending to ameliorate the law of the Max
imum, and to protect the supplies end
provisions. He displayed the martttuvres
of the farmers, who only seek to I'ncreafe
their fortnne ; of the ftockholde, s, who
he said, concerted meafnres with Pitt, to
reduce France by famine. He jhewe
thit the law of the Maximum had hither
to only been ufefiil to the rich. He pro
ved the necefiity ofdiminifhing and fixing
the price of manual labour.
He concluded by averting, that the
law of the maximum had hitherto only al
fefted the retailers, and proposed an m
demnification to them. He also proposed
a tariff, regulating the profirs of merchants
and retailers.—The report or Barrere was
dec^ecil.
The Convention decreed,
cities of the interior partes 1
lie, which are able to resist. tl
the rebels, and f: 1 :
firtance, shall be raze
frontier towns ; ar.d tl
inhabitants confifcatid
Gamier de Sairte wi
le&ed forces to resist tlv
rebels- —He compVmed
of the adminiilrators, ai
dculars
refpe&ing the operations of the generals—
Referred to a committee of public wel-
IKt
' 1:«1 'c
PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY A.
From a Correspondent.
After t'ae unequivocal negative that hai
been put on the queilion of war, by the
voice of the peop'e in approving the mea
sures of peace adopt by the government, and
the happiness experienced by every class
of citizens under the present regulation
of our affairs ; it is presumed that Con-
grefs (hould be extremely cautious how
they agree to refifutiont founded on theory,
and which would undoubtedly throw our
finances into the utmo'l dtforder, at the
fame time that they might probably be a
cause of involving us in aconteft with the
powers of Europe.
American Tonnage.
The Secretary of the Treasury refpeft
fully reports to the House of Representa
tives, a (latement of the aftnal tonnage em
ployed between the United States and
foreign countries for a year, ending the
30th of September, 1792 ; which is the
(latement that remained to be reported,
of thofc required by the order of the 3d
infiant.
Treasury Department,
January 10, 1794.
Statement of the actual tonnage of A
merican vessels, employed in the com
merce of the United States with fo
reign nations for one year, ending 30th
September, 1792.
Nations
RulTia
Sweden
Swedish Weft-Indies
Denmark
Danish Weft-Indies
United Netherlands
Dutch Weft-Indies
Cape of Gccd Hope
England
Guernsey and Jersey
Scotland
Ireland
Gibraltar
British Eaft-Ir.dies
British Weft-Indies
Newfoundland
British American Colonies
Imperial Ports
Hamburg and Bremen
France
St. Pierre
French Weft-Indies
Spain
TenerifFe and other Canines
Spanish Weft-Indies
Floridas and Louisiana
Portugal
Madura
Fayal and other Arores
Cape de Verd
China
Fast-Indies generally
Weft-Indies generally
Africa generally
South Seas
Total
Treasury Department,
January 10th, 1794.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury.
The resolution of Mr. Willcocks, for
abolishing Titles, was after considerable
debate, negatived by the committee of the
Aflembly of the State of New-York.
Ketolurj-Port, Jan. 17.
Capt. Andrews, who arrived at Bolton
from St. Euilatia, informs, that four days
before his failing, a vessel had arrived there
from some part of Great-Britain, in 30
days, with the news of a genera! battle
having been fought between the French
and combined armies, in which the latter
had been defeated, with the lofsof 14,000
men killed.
Houft of Reprcfenlalturt.
Monday, February 3.
A number of petitions were read and
it allthofe
of
referred
On motion of Mr. Harrifon, the report
ot a feleet committee on the petition of
Lucy Clark, was taken into conlidera
tion—this report was read, a;id is in favor
of the prayer of the petition.
r '.I -. li
:• t; I the
property of the
that he col
rrrfs of the
Mr. Harrifon moved that a committee
should be appointed to prepare and bring
in a bill conformably to the report —this
motion was agreed to, and a committee of
three appointed.
ence
Mr. Watts prcfenttd the petition of
Pearfall and Pell, of New-York, who have
established a manufatture of Hand-bellows,
and praying the encouragement of Govern
ment, by laying cnhauccd duties on that
article imported.
On motion of Mr. Watts, this petition
was referred to a fekct committee. The
petition of the dealers in painters oil and
colours, on motion of Mr. Fitzfimons, was
referred to the fame committee.
The house then resolved itfelf into a
committee of the wliole, on the bill for
granting relief to such of the refugee in-
habitants of St. Domingo, as {land in
need of support. The commi tee proceed
ed thro* the several fe£tions of the bill,
and reported it without amendment—it
was then ordered to be engrafted.
In committee of the whole c«n Mr. Ma
dison's resolution—Mr. Trumbull in the
chair.
Mr. Swift, after a few remarks, in
which he adverted to sundry modifications
of the introdu&ory resolution fuggelled
by the mover, which modifications he ob
served, rendered the resolution of no im
portance in relation to those subsequent,
moved that the firft resolution foouJd be
struck out.
This motion occasioned another, for the
rising of the committee, that time might
be given for members who are now absent
to be present at taking the vote—After
some debate on this motion, it appeared
that the house was as full as usual— 97
members being present, the motion was
therefore withdrawn—as was also the mo
tion for striking out—the debate was con
tinued on the resolution; at length an
amendment was moved to strike out the
word " certain," and to insert the fol~
lowing % before the word " cases"—this
motion was withdrawn. The queflion will
the committee agree to the firft resolution
was then put, and carried in the affirma
tive, 51 to 46.
Tons
3°49
1036
820
2210
10000
10977
50457
495
45986
This resolution is in the following
words, viv
258
3880
9908
Resolved, as the opinion of this Com
mittee, that the intercfl of the United
States would be promoted by further re
strictions and higher duties, in certain ca
ses, on the manufactures and navigation
of foreign nations, employed in the com
merce of'the United States, than those
now imposed.
759
176
4960
97
460
! 9'5
3'»7
The second resolution being read—Mr.
Fitzfimons moved that the words " Hav
ing no treaty with the United States",
should be (truck out—this was succeeded
by a motion for the committee to rife and
report progress—which was accordingly
14777
603
67130
21245
1825
49 2 7
done.
4 11
16410
497'
The bill for the relief of the Refugees
from St. Domingo, was brought in engros
sed—read the third time and paflcd—the
blank was filled up with fifteen thousand
dollars.
759
2729
>44 2
3 11
507
460
"3
In committee of the whole on Mr. Ma
dison's resolutions. The raotion made ycf
terday by Mr. Fit-zfimoru, for finking
out the words, " Nations not having a
commercial treaty with the United States"
was, after a few observations, withdrawn,
to make way for a motion Mr. Nicholas,
the object of which was to except from
the diferimination propofcd, sundry pow
ers with whom the United States have no
commercial treatv.
189394
This motion leaves the difsrimination to
operate againfl Great Britain only—the
powers proposed to be excepted are, Rus
sia, Denmark, the Hanfeatic Towns., the
Imperial and Portugal.
The debate continued till 1-4 after 3
o'clock—when the committee rose with
out taking a vote —and the House ad
journed.
The operation of certain Resolutions,
fays a Correfpondcnt, may be exemplified
by theconduftof a manjpvho, becaufehe
has received an injury on his cheek, to re
venge the off his nose.
CONGRESS
Adjourned.
Tuesday, February 4.
snIP NEWS
A crfolh t 'Jcnujry 2 2
On Th'irfdav hll arrived here from
Brest, the French corvette the Brutus, of
20 guns, commanded by Citizen Mitay-
She left Brill 21 ft of November.
On Friday Jaft arrired here the Ihip Pa
tnxent Planter, Captain Dorset, from
Bourdcauit, which place he left the 18th
of November.
On ift Jan. spoke the flocp DUpatch,
of Marblehead, bound to Charleftc n, from
Cadiz, who informed him thai ele-.en fail
of Americans were reported to be captur
ed by the Algerinej. Left at Bourdeaux,
the following veflels:
Richmond, Capt. Lee ; Betliia, Bram
ble, of Petetfburg ; Baring, Cooper, of
Philadelphia ; Sans Souci, Crozier, ofPt>
terlburfr; Hannonv, Osmond, Philadel
phia ; Nymph, Wei b, ditto ; Louisa, Kor
gan, Yoik ; Merchant, Jones, of Port
land j Carolina Planttr, White, of Caro
lina ; Minerva, Allen, of Baltimore ; Ca
rolina, Wilder, of Charlcfton ; Thomas,
, of Charlcfton ; Pallas, Wilds, of
Boston ; Friendftiip, Bacchus, cf New-
York ; America, Jerving, of Fhilad. Com
merce, Preble, Portland; Diana, Aroory,
of Boston ; Zephyr, Pepper, of Boston;
Cumberland, Scott, of Portland ; Mi
nerva, Cutts, of Pepperelborough ; Ruf
fe!, Re id, of Charlcfton ; Hope, Bowler
of Boston, Lydia, Gardner, do. Diana,
Peas, do. Eliza, Clark, Alexandria ; and
others, to the amount of 100 fail.
On Friday last arrived here, the brig
Susannah, capt. R. Gofngan, from Gre
nada. On the 72th Jan. lat. 33, lon. 7«_
spoke the fchooncr Susannah, capt. Ncr
ham, from Charlcfton, bound to George
town, out 26 days, dismasted : had id b
101 l her rudder. Capt. Goffigan was not
able to relieve hint, the sea ran so high.
Arrived at Portsmouth (N. H.) —Brig
RinngSun, Joseph Noble, Mailer, 1113 2
days from Basseterre, (Gau.)
The Cork fleet witli provilions had ar
rived in Barbadoes, confiding of 33 fa;l,
convoyed by three frigates.
The grand fleet had not arrived on the
13th Dec.—The troops had all gone up
to Baibadoes, from the other English
I Hands, in order to join the fleet asfoou at
it (hould arrive.
To be Let on Freight or Charter,
or for Sale,
The Ship
gglv HERCULES,
W Samuel Ckauncy, Mailer,
cxpettca 10 bf ready in a few days to receive
a Cargo on board, at Hampton Road, in Virginia ;
js an American bottom, burthen 500 tons, pierced
for 20 guns, quite new and well fitted.
Apply to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
Philadelphia, Febiuary 4, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALS BY
M. Carey, No. 118,Higb z /Ireet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sfnsf, the bejl sense in the world.
little book is written in a stile altogether
X novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
weir as to all clafll s of people, merchant, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation hasthi*
WQtk acquired, thai it has passed thro ihiee ini
preflions in the eaftein Hates, and many hoiMr
holders deein it so ufeful as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theii families. Pmct 2s.
February 4. dtl
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends end
the public, That (rem the mcouriicmriit
he has rereivrd, from federal iefpe&able Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to cmbaik in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his feilncei to
all those Cent lemrn, who can place confidence
in him ; and he aflures thole who emplof h;m,
that ihrir confidence (hall not he mitplaccd;—
but it flhiail be his coxftant endeavor, to pay the
ftri£L ft attention to their btft interest, in all ne
gociations whatever. He has taken thr Chsmhei,
in s late-Street, o»tt Mr. David Icwrfend, Watch
Makei's Shop. Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of all kinds*, are Mogh' and fold; and
where Commiflion Buituels of all kinds, will be
tranfa&ed on teafonable Irrms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be conftamly expofid to/ fa4e, on
comroiflion.
* # * CasH p*i«l for Salem, and
Porilmouth BILIS.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York, has My Hujinefs to tranjaci at 80/? on,
in Paper Negoctafions, fu mil he h~fp\ to he i«>
ploy el on commijbm.
E:ftcn, Jar. ?&Peale's Museum,
S 131 eIV rri". 1 vi il i nii'i" <r ol ariu'.i 1 :
am.inn winch are 'he blowing : That
.kable bud called the Cut-water, oi ' (:il
i|| • ySc Avnfetie, connnini'v !hf
. m ik' ', kixfe ol its bill a
kfd jwl-Thi L»ng-|. j(>, ciiii'.iii 'nly call
ic Bfock-bct, having perhaps Ibe long* ft legs
ropoiimn to the lite of Uic bud, ol any of
leai hered uibe-The Simm finch, comrnoo
callid mother Can's chx'kcn— The Sra
llow, and variou> Gulls; 1 elides a satiety
C'aiics, Curlews, Snipis, f<c.
l'lif f, nil of > Whale and one»f-is Verh bits.
A" Indian lianchet nude of clnvftal : It il
lions hat lhole uninlei med Wild people, hav
f> very little Know ol toe ails, and he-ng
noiani om ol lhe exiltti'.cr of iron and lltel,
ould be able to foi m such ha.d fobftances in.
fancilul furms as this, and ir.hr Indian tna
jlafclu'es now in the Muleuni.
A I: ''lifted Quince : The specimen Ifiews
,l,at i Tetnatkable effeda dry waira li'nation
3 , on Iriut. It is now about 8 years since it
as Inhered Jandit was a teal quince, now be
ome wood, at lealt in appeaiance.
Piefenled l»v Mis. Manlbn ol Cbailellown,
j !(10 l u f r d by tbe Oiaheitans in making
hen baik cloth, by pounding the bark on this
ildrumem of wooei, it produces the ribs which
clenible threads : the peifrfily straight and
oua'i 1 nes made in 'his extreme hard wood, by
n'en without the ufc of iron.aie curious & won
ierlul. , ,
I
Alio, a rope made o f Rraf<, p*rt of the
a viift I oi
P.cimted by Dr.liall, bt Lcwis-lown, a Squib
in i\>i ritt 1 >a bcti lir.s Hih wa» Icuntl, a number
ol Hones were apfKiulvd in ftrtn»« or ligaments
that proje&ed from the front of its head,which
occasioned a tonjc&ure, as it i, not furnifhed
with fuffccienl fins to refill the violence of the
tide and currents, tb xt it bfb ned wi>h these li
g aim ins on whatever it found at the botioin ; fi>
that the stones answered the purpofeof anchors
and the ligaments of a glutinous sticky nature,
thatol cables. Some of the (tones are in the
fame phial.
A colic fclion of Minerals and other Foflils
#'e now difplavrd in idra * crs covered with glnfs
and in a mode which will feeure them from de
rangement. To each fnecimcri air rffixed refe
rences to a book of deferiptions. This nftanage
ineni of fpecimcns ot the Follil kingdom, ren
ders this part of the Mufcum very convenient
and fatisi»ftorv,and great attention will be paid
to the fvP.cma'ical order of I hem, and in mak
ing the nccolfary eff*ys of ea.h : Also in giving
in concise manner, the various uses they are
applied to; thereby vrndenng them the more
intereftiug so the public.
A Living Elk, of a years old. is just receiv
ed. By tlv account which monf. Button gives
of the Elk, it appearsthat he wa* not acqiuint
cd with litis American animal; he particularly
omits all noticc of the cuiious apertures adjoiu
ing the eyes of this Elk. __
War Atlas.
This Day is Published,
/Price Two Dollars)
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Marht-Jlreet,
A Collection of Maps,
Including the whole ol the various Seats of
Ihe pre'ent War in Kutope and the Well-
Indies, viz.
t.TVTAP of toe United Provinces of Holland,
IVA Fncfland, Gronicns»cn, Overyflcl, Gcl
ders, Utrecht, and Zealand.
2. Map.of the Frcnch, Dutch, and Austrian
Netherlands.
3. Map of France divided into citeles and
departments,
4. Map of Spain and Portugal.
5. Mfp of Germany and Switzerland,
6. Map o* Italy.
7. Map of the Weft Indies.
N. B. Any of the above Maps ipay be had
fcparatr.
Said Carey has lately pullt/hed
Account of Algiers— with a Map— l J lo h-
Account of the Malignant Fever, 41b edition—
—Dr. Naff)'* Yreatifr on do.— \fi
Jan. 25. 41. 2aw.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry ( \rch) between Ftftirth and Fifth
Street"?, adjoining the Episcopal burying-
ground*
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
Ihorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane neck*, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, wlndfor fill keys and chaits, and harness
ofevory description, in the neatest and ncweft
falhion now prevailing *n the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
■wood by him, and capital workmrn, he has
not the l?aft doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfafticn to those who plenfe to employ him.
He has for fate, several carriages almost
finished, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaston for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794- m&tftm ,
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given, that there will
be paid aj the Bank, after the sixteenth
instant, to the Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized si teen dollars and
fifty cent* for each (hare, being the dividend
declared for the last fix months.
Bv Order,
JOHN KEAtt, Cashier.
JuJl pull'ijledt
THF.
United States Register,
For tUe Year 1794.
Containing,
\ CALENDAR, with the nrcrffjry tlbles
XV fit led tor the Uulude of the pnncipiltowns
in the United Slates; situation, extent, population
md GOVERNMENT U. S.
Supremi Exfcutivi,
LEGIM. ATU K i,
Judiciary,
Lift of CounfelloTS admitted t® praftife in
theSupieinc Court.
Do of Auornies, Do.
Executive Branches,
DtrAR tment or State,
Mmifters and Cdnluls of the United States
in forcgn nations.
Do. of foreign nations resident in the
United States.
DEPARTMR NT OF THI TREASURY,
Principals and Clerks of the refpedlive of
fices,
Coinmillioner* of I.oans,
Officers of the Customs, with their respec
tive dithifcts and ports,
Officers of the Excifc, with their refpedlive
diftrifls and surveys,
Lift of dutiable articles, &c.
Abftrall from the revenue laws,
Statement of the public debt,
of Lighuhoufes,
—of appropriations for the fupporl
o! Government.
Departmknt of War,
S« creiary's office,
Accountant's,
Monthly pay, &c. of the army.
Mint Establishment,
Officers,
Abftrt& from the laws relating to coinage.
Post Office Establijhmknt,
Officers.
Abllratl from (he law eftablithing the office
Lift ot pod towns, with their refpctlive
diftanccs as eflabUlhed by the Post-Mas-
tcr Gcnenl.
Latitude and Longitod« of the prin
cipal towns in the United States and their
vicinity.
Banks,
United States,
North Amenca,
State banks with their capitals.
Literary Institutions.
American Philosophical Society, See.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
National Manufactory at Paterfon.
Sessions of the Courts of the United
States.
We'tern Territory
State Governments.
Abftraft from the constitution of each state
Principal officers, executive, legislative and
judiciary
Militia;
Officeis of the Ranks, capitals, dates of in
corporation, periods of limitation, ex
tent of property, &c.
Univerfitics, Colleges and Academies,
Socieiies, fcientific, humane, political &c
Exhibiting in as general and comprehensive a
view as poflible the internal police, the state
of liteiaiurc, arts, commerce, and foeicty,in
the fcveral states.
Price 50 cents.
Printfd by Stewart and Cochran, No. 34,
South Sccond llicet, and John M'Culloch, No.
norrh Third dreet, and fold by them and
the booksellers. Jan. ay. d6t
Notice is hereby given,
That the fubferiber lus been duly ap
pointed Adminitlratrix on the ellate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, in the county of Sulfolk, deCeased, and
has taken upon herfelf that trust, by giving
boifds as the law direfls—and all persons in.
terefted, are defirtd to take notice accord
ingly
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boftan, Nov. 13, 1793-
Take Notice.
A LL per fans who have any demands against
iIL ihe Estate of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Efy deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subscriber, Attorney
to the Adrainiftratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who stand indebted to said Estate, are
rcouefted to fettle with him immediately ; as the
Ast of Limitation of Aftidns, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
otHerwise render it neceflary for him 10 com
'mence suits agamft them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Bofton,Nov. 13, 1793-
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
iionwealth, are requcfted to insert this in their
re'fpe&ive newspapers, and forward their ac
counts for the Panie» to J-M.
iTreafury Department,
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofaU'will
be received at the Office of the Secretary
of the Treasury, until the 6:h of February next
inclusive, for the supply of all Rations which
may be required during the present year, at the
several places of rendezvous hereafter mention
ed, lor the Recruiting Service, viz.
At New-Btunfwick, in Nfw-Jeifcy;
At Philadelphia, ")
At Laucafter, > in Ptunfylvania.
At Reading, )
The rations to be furnilhed are tocorifift of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or J of a pound of jjork.
Half »jill of rum, brandy or whiiky,
One quart of fa|t
Tw6 quarts of vanegarf „ .
" , rr > per too rations
Two pounds of loap f r
On * pound of c»ndlf«)
J"'- 9-
Just Imported,
From Londok, Dublin andGiAsdsir,
And now opening for sale, hy
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market freel,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION of BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Regilter for 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester focicty, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Dif»ey's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty, a collection of essays
Varieof Pruflia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
Ruflell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extra&s, superbly gilt,
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and BriiTon's vorage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
TalTo's Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's hiftoi y of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Guriofities of literature, 3 vol*.
Whitaker's defence of qu6en Mary
Sheridan's ditttonary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on itiafonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kiir«s of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on rnaterialifm and tmma.eriahfm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitui
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols-
Helve tins on man
Kaimes's lketches of the history ©f mart
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Benignus
Mawe J s gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of foKtude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of thfc bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. & Hid.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruflia, Poland, &c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
JVlotherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&ice of mid-
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qiimcy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
nailer's physiology
Spalanzane's dilfertations
London practice of physic
Bell's forgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, account* sta
ted or collected, cmplovcrs suited with
domestics, house rooms, hoarding and lodging
tented, let or procured—foldicr's, mariner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims on the
public ; (bares in the banks, in the canal*, and
the turnpiVe road ; certificates granted by t"he
pabltc, and *he old and late paper monies ;
notes ®f band, bills, bortds and inorgagei, with
or without depofii*—Bought, fold, or rego
ciated at No. 8, in south Sixth-ftreft, below
Market-ftr«rt by FRANCIS WHITE,
WbotranfaSs business in tba public offices for
country peop'e end others, by virtue of a pow
er of attorney, or by pcifonal applicaiiow.
Dcccniue* li. 4
iavrt6F.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Sectnd-fireet,
Second door beloiv the cornerol Chetiiut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A largt cwd general AJ[ortmcnt of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be dil'poled of on the lowed terms.
Dec. 23. mw&t'tf
ALL persons having any de
mands agaiuft the ellate oi GEORGE
WIBLE, late ol the city ot Philadelphia, baker,
are rcqutfttd to bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated ; and those who are indebted, cte
dcfired to make immediate payment.
HENRY REES, Aminiftramr.
January 13.
Encyclopedia,
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookseller, at the Stone House, in Second
ftreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X OF
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Of Arts, Sciences, and Miscellaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
BY WHICH
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are digejted into the form cf
Diftinft Treaties or Systems :
THIS volume contains principles of Levels*
Liberty, Do&rine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
don, Longitude. Luther, Lvdia, Maced6n,
Madaga'fcar, Ma£ic, Magnetism, Malt?, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illuitrated with Twen-
TY TWO Cop PF.R PL ATB-S.
As a number ot families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the fubferibers to call or fend for tfteir vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
ponihle.
The t*Nth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now preF<nted to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an imnctfeCl state, iome ac
count of the reason of rhVt i'mperfeftlon fliould
he oiven. On the Brh cf September last, tl>e
Pviblifher had the misfortune of having his
Printing Office burnt down by a lire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the FrouiEs, with,
which he was printing the tables op
o arithm s, belonging to the pre Sent
were incited down by the violence of the lire,
i As a supply of these could not be immediately
I obtained, he was under the neccffity of pub
! lifliing the volnme without the r e tables; but
1 hopes he Ihall be able topublilh them with the
next volume which is now in considerable for-
wardnefs.
The Publiflier embraces this opportunity of
exprefiing his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to fiich of the fubferibers
as are ita arrears, the indifpenfible neceflity of
pun&uality, both in taking: up the volumes as
early as pofliWe after publication, and oi pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the sub
scribers having got only one, two, three, £rc.
volumes, and several volumes remain php a-id.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles "unpaid lays the Publiflier under
very fei ious enibarraifment, and deprives Wm
of the use of many Thoufands«f Dollars which
at this time would be of very eflential service.
For tbefe reasons the Publi(her finds himfelf
under the necessity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in fiirure no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to thoie wli#
take and pay to the time of publication.
December 10. aawttl.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.,
Cj* Terms of Subscription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Subfcripthms of persons
who reftle at a diflame from the city, to bt
t'll'el'Ve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advet tifements of ctufquare, or less, in
fertedfour times for One Dollar— ',nce, for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at T vventy
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
ptriicn. Favors in this line, and Sttbfcrip
tions, will be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourthflreet,fiiie doors north of the
Indian Queen
PH 11. ALT. L PHI A ,•
PfctHTHD fy JOHN FENNO, No. jj.
South Fourth-Street.
2aw3^-
Vol. X-