EVE
[No. 73 of Vol. V.]
For Amsterdam,
""Xn The new fact-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
figs ADRIAN A.
K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of Jive oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or paflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794. dtf
For Frederick fargb and
Falmouth,
(Rappahannock Rjver, Virginia)
THE SCHOONER
Frwndftjip.
. Macnamara,Mafter
Will fail on Saturday next. For freight or
pailage apply to the Captain on'board, at
John Wain's Wharf, or to
Emanuel Walker.
WHO HAS FOR SALF,
VIRGINIA TOBACCO, FLOUR,
WHEAT, and GINSENG
March 5
For Sale or Charter,
The Ship
ANDROMACHE,
(an American bottom)
John Moore, Master ;
Is a itout good veflel, about two years old,
burthen 232 tons, has only made three voy~
ages, and may be sent to Tea at a small ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
Wharton & Lewis.
Feb. 22, 1794* dtf
Jufl Imported,
In the Ship Edzuard, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Petersburg in Russia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz,
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
Job /i Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-street.
diw3tawtf
March 4$ 1794.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Arnfterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipeSy
A f&uj bales Holland Ducky
Ditto OznaburgSy
Holland Sheetingy
Juniper BerrieSy
Gla/s Ware, -viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious ftzes.
Sheathing Papery
Swedes Iron, square and flat barsy
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats 9
A quantity of Junk and Oakum y . &c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
/houtdapplication be madeivithin a few days ;
otbertvife Jhe will take freight for Amjler
dvm.
March I, 1794.
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, JAPANN'D
PLATES, &c.
Done in the most elegant manner, and after
the firft matters ; likewise,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finiftied at the lhorteft notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth streets.
March 4. dtf
of ti (i <Stnifel) Ufafes
NING ADVERTISER.
WANTED,
A Man Servant,
Who is acquainted with the common duties
about a house. None need apply but such
as can be well recommended.
March 4.
A Slitter of Iron
WANTED.
A MAN well /killed in rolling and
flitting Iron into Sheets, may have
good encouragement by calling on the
Printer. Feb. 27. eop4t
Excellent CLARET,
In hogflseads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
Jan. 2, 1794
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock"
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A hale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchong Tea, Hyson and
3twff
Tfhf. 20.
Exhibition of Artificial
Chineje Fire-Works,
Without powder, smell, or smoke.
MR. STUVER returns his fincerc thanks
to the public for the great encourage
ment he has met with, and has the honor to
inform them, that his exhibition will be con
tinued every evening (Sundays excepted) at
7 o'clock, in Cherry Alley, the firft door weft
of Fourth-street. Xickets for grown persons
I id. and for children 6d.
Sele<st parties confifling of ten or more per
sons will be admitted from 8 o'clock until 10,
notice being given the afternoon previous to
the exhibition. Tickets one quarter dollar.
March 4,
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased,
TheHoufe N°. 245,
On which it stands, wherein James Biddle
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
street, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet 10 inches in
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold fub
je& to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their fucceflors
forever. For terms apply to
March i, 1794.
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Coffee-Houfe of this
City :—
d—tf
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
ihc Public m general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in bhippen-Strect, be
tween Third and Fourth-Sirens, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly iir.proved, and is now
very commodious ; where he has turniftied him
felf with »he best of LIQUORS, and will fur
nifh a TABLE for Partus, wuh the best provi-
Gons the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
(hort<ft notice. From hi* long experience in
this line of bufincfs, he flatters himfelf he shall
be able to give fatistaftion to all who may please
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29,1794.
Friday, March 7, 1794.
Enquire of the Printer.
In pipes, hogsheads and quaiier calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. iij, South From-ltrccc. I
cltl
Street:—
A few Bales ot Ru(fi<t Sheetings,
Tonkav, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Brimftonr,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Vivat Respuelica.
* 4 t
TO BE SOLD,
AND
Lot of Ground
Samuel Coates,
Jonathan Jones,
Antijony W. Morris,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, dec'cl
*eop 3W
AND
JUST PUBLISHED,
H. & P. Rice,
No. 50, High-Street,
(Price One DolUr)
The Gentleman's
Pocket Library.
CONTAINING,
1. The Principles of Politeness.
2. The Economy of Human Life.
3. Rochefoucauld's Moral Reflexions.
4. Lavater's Aphorisms on Man.
5. The Polite Philosopher.
6. The way to Wealth, by Dr. Franklin.
7. Select Sentences.
8. Detached Sentences.
9. Old Italian, Spanish and English Pro
verbs.
10. A Tablet of Memory.
March 3. 4t
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths iff jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortmcnt of
SILVER PLJTED WARE,
JEWELLERY £sTfneCUTLERY,
Which they will dli'poie of on the most rea
sonable re-ins. Devices in hair, Miniatures
fctt, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, done as usual.
December 24.
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
3^aw6w
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENriRONS:
Taken from actual survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS P.aII will be rngraved on a plafe 26
inches square ; and it will contain an ex
a£t description of all the squares, streets and
alleys in the City and Liberties. The fttuaiion
of the several public buildings, such as the State-
H«ufe. Cify-Hall, Seat ot Congress, Churches,
Meeting-Houses, Hospital, Library and Semiira
lies of Learning—of the several Banks, and of
the Federal and State Offices, will be ascertained.
The parts which are built on will be diftingu-fh
ed from those that are not. The courl'es ol the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended to connect the
navigation of these two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineaied. It will also be ornamented by a
view of the shipping in the harbor, and an ele
vation of Congress-Hall, and of the other public
buildtngs that occupy the ground contiguous.
In fhnri, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufrf ill and dtfirable work acceptable .to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power :
and it shall be compleated with the greatest
as Toon as the generous encou
ragement of (uffcribets (hall insure to the author
such a sum as will be fufficicnt to delray ex
pences.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the Subfcnbtis nan.es, and information con
cerning the police, population and present state
of the city. *
The price to fubferibers will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at the time ot deliver
ing the Plans.
Subfti iptmns will be gratefully received at
the principal Booksellers iu this city—and the
originaj Draft may be seen at B. Da vies',*
No. 68, Maikf t-ftrect, at any time until it (hall
be j»ut into the hands of the Engraver.
Feb. 28.
AVIS.
LE habitans infortunes de la Colonic Franfaife
de St. Domingue qui dans I'incendie du
Cap font venus cherchtr un afile dans les Etats
Unis font informes que la Republique leur ac
cotde un paflage pour Fiance. lis font invites
en consequence a fe presenter a cet effet d'ici a
huit jours chcz les Consuls & agens de la Re
publique dans Its differ* nts Ports des Etats Unis.
A Philadelphie, Ie 10 Ventos—l'an 2d de
la Republique Fianyaife une Sc indivisible.
(28 Fevrier, 1794. vxeuxjiile)
Le Mini Are Pienipotentiarc de la Republique
Fran^aife.
The edito r s of neu<jp»pers in the United States ire
requtjled to injert the above notice in their paper. 8
(TJ* This Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement —The Sub/cription
encreafes daily—Adverting Favors are
folicited —These confitute an ejfential Item
in ditnini/hing the Debit Jtde of the Account,
AND .SOLD BY
irm&rftf
OF THfi
sawtf
JH. FAUCHET.
[Whole No. 531.
The following miscellaneous articles are co-
pied from the American Star.
The National Gazette of France of tlie
sixth, reports, that the curate of the diftrift
of Mleun said at the tribunal "it is time to
inform the people that there is no thie re
ligion but the religion of nature, and that
all the dreams, all the mockeries, with
which the name of religion hag been deco
rated, are but mere tales—no more priests
—we shall arrive to it at lad.
At the fitting of the Bth, a number of
petitioning priests were admitted; the
mod of them deposited the corals of fa
naticifrr.—many members of the Conven
tion both priests and bishops followed thia
example.
The Abbe de Sieyes, who hds not been
spoken of a long time, has lately left his
voluntary obfeurity, and following the ex
ample of his colleagues, has renounced
priesthood, and made a donation of a pen
lion of a thousand livres, which was al
lowed him for a number of benefices.
The Convention went in a body to the
late church of Notre Dame, at present
called the Temple of Reason—they con
secrated it, and there made a facrifice te
liberty.
There is remarked amongst the Brif
fotins (of whose execution an account has
been already given) a man called Fauchet,
furnamed in the revolution Iron-Mouth, a
great partizan of the Agrarian law, which
he called agre-able law.
Du Chatel, is also distinguished amofigft
them, who, before the sentence of the
king, had himfelf carried sick to the Con
vention, and there deelared, that in hit
sou) and confcienee he could not find Loui«
the 16th guilty.
Lequinio and Lignel write to the Con
vention from Rothfort, " The popular
society of this city has lately propof'd a
philosophical dispute between the priests
and intelligent men—never was the church
so full—we spoke firft, and the curate af
ter. The people gave us attention, and
hided at the curate, with his mysteries.
This church has been named the Temple
of Truth."
The deputies of the commune of Ris,
appeared before the Convention and there
declared " They have no more any need
either of gospel or pastor, they will make
a present to the nation of the money these
inutilities cost ; that at the feet of the fta.
tue of Brutus they will become republic
ans, and on his forehead they will read
their duties."
Voltaire has said in his tragedy of Ma
homet :
" There is need of a new gospel • * •
" There is need of a new God to awaken
the universe.
At the fitting of the [ft of December,
La Planche, Dumont, and Fouche sent
seventeen trunks full of precious (tones,
gold and silver, coming from the depart
ment of la Nievre. The republicans, who
were the bearers of this offering said, in
the name of their fellow-citizens, that
they despised all this gold, and that they
only wished for bread and iron. They
added—we also express our wi(hes for the
suppression of the ministers of the gospel.
The fame Fouche writes to father Du
chene (Hebert, substitute of commune)
" Happily at Nievre there is now neither
poor nor rich."
Dubois Crance, and Gautiers, who
were seen in the preceding news to have
been arretted, are now set free, on the
motion of the Committee of Public Safe
ty. One of them has sent the Conventi
on an important piece ; it was a resolve.
signed by 20,000 Lyonefe, and who by
its being (hown are convi&ed of rebellion.
Their property has been confifcated to
the profit oi the Republic ; Dubois Crance
affirms, that this property amounts to
near 2000 millions.
Amongst the guillotined Briffotins, or
rather destined for it, since he of whom
we speak killed himfelf, there ii remarked
Du Friehe Valaze, the author of the re
port which produced the ast of accufatioq
against Louis XVI.Kellerman who so long kept himfelf in
command in despite of a formal decree
(as did Polvcrel and Santhonax at St. Do
mingo) can no longer hope to save him
felf, since the attempt in which he failed.
With a design to get in favor with the Ja
cobins he Vtrote them a letter, full of his
devotion to their will, wherein he demand
ed of thejn the title of Gtrural bf the Ja
cobins, but this meanness did not succeed,
and the Jacobins crazed him from the lilt
of their members.
Another general, some time since de
poled, and who had the happiness of be
ing forgotten, viz. Luckner, has had the
foolilhnefs to recall his exigence, by re
claiming some pension. He was soon af
ter arretted in the environs of Metz and
con j. cted to Paris.
Congress of the United States.
Houfc of Representatives.
January 30.
In committee of the whole on Mr. Madison's
refutations.
Speech of Mr. Madison.
[continued.]
HE then went into a review of the
a&ual Hate of our commerce, particular
ly in relation to Great Britain ; and of
the several injuries of another fort, which
that nation had fuperadded to her com
mercial reftri&ions.
He repeated w'.iat hp had formerly
maiutaihed, that there was more of reci
procity in the footing of commerce be
tween Great Britain and other countries,
and between other countries and the Uni
ted States. To prove the firft point he
remarked that in some instances G. Bri
tain had treaties with other countries
which defined and stipulated reciprocal
privileges ; in other instances, her restric
tions were counter-vailed by laws impos
ing reftri&ions on her. To prove the se
cond point, he remarked that no other na
tion, with which the United States carried
on commerce, had a navigation adl limi
lar to that of Great Britain.
With refpeft to the intercourfc be
tween the United States and Great Bri
tain, there was, he infilled, a want of re
ciprocity throughout, that mult strike
the mod fuperfieial observer.
In the article of navigation this had
been fufficiently pointed out, and being
admitted on all lides, need not be repeat
ed.
In the trade between the two countries,
our belt llaples, wheat and flour, fi(h and
oil, & salted provisions, whichamo unt to
considerably more than one third of our
exports, were (hut out of her markets ;
whilst all her staples, her woolens, her
cotton-., her manufactures of the metals,
of leather, and of silk, were admitted on
moderate duties, and enjoyed in a man
ner a monopoly of our market.
In the articles of fuperfluity mutually
admitted, there was nothing to compen
sate the inequality in other cases. Our
tobacco paid a tax of 4or 500 per cent,
our rice 53 or 60 per cent, and our manu
factures of every fort would not be admit
ted if we were ever so able to fend them.
On the other hind, her fuperfluities were
received under duties, which in general
did not exceed from leven and an half to
fifteen per eent.
In the Well India trade, besides the
exclusion of our veflels, whild her own
were left free, there were a number of our
productions which were not admitted in
to the market there, whilit our laws re
fufed nothing that wasbrought to the mar
ket here.
He next turned his attention to the in
juries and losses we fuffered in other ref
peits.
As he had not poflefled himfelf of the
evidence, he should, he said, leave it to
those who had, to shew how far the Indi
ans were or were not spurred on to war a
gainll us, by the agents or partisans of G.
Britain. It was a fufficient ground of
complaint, that the polls were wrongful
ly detained ; that the detention had a
baneful influence on the sentiments and
conduft,of the Indians ; and that the sup
plies for their warfare, were derived from
a trade, authorised by the British govern
ment, and protected by the polls which of
right were ours, and ought to be used for
our defence.
He combined this proceeding of G.
Britain, with the lawless feizuie of our
▼effek under her inftru&ioni of the Bth
of June last, observing, that whilst on
one fide (he violated the laws of rations,"
by cairying on a trade in contraband arti
cles with those at war with us j (he was
on another fide, violating the laws of na
tions, by intercepting our trade with those
at war with her, in articles not contra
band.
The Indian war he observed, co.l us
annually a sum, exceeding by one million,
the sum that would probably be fufficient
for the defence of our frontier, if the
ports were in our hands. The fur trade
Spending on the poits might, he tho't,
be fairly valued at two hundred thousand
dollars mote.
The Algerine depreditions appeared to
have proceeded from the steps taken in pur
suance of the views of the British govern
ment. If they were not immediately
pointed againtt us, it must have been
known that our trade would be the vic
tim. The evil therefore may at lead be
charged to an unfriendly dil'regard of our
interests, if not a poiitive hollility to
them. The pecuniary amount of this
eTil, cannot be rated at less than the ex
pence of the armament proposed as a re
medy. This is itated at 600,000 dollars
for the outfit ; and he did not expect that
the annual expence would average much
less; to which may be added, at a very
low computation, for insurance remaining
after the armament, 200,000 dollars.
The spoliations committed on our neu
tral commerce by Great Britain, mull be
of considerable. though very uncertain a
mount ; and the consequential detriment
to our trade in general from these inter
ruptions and dangers, of a very great,
though equally uncertain amount.
In order to bring both within a fafe es
timate, he said he would state the former
at the limited film of 150,000 dollars,and
the latter at no more than 400,000 dol
lars.
In addition to the foregoing ellimates,
he said there was another item, which,
though of a different chara&er, fell under
a comprehensive view of our situation ;
and being reducible to an amount tolera
bly definite, ought to find a place here.
He referred to the flatement before quot
ed from a report of the Secretary of (late
which (hewed that the loss to the United
States from a dependence on Briti(h bot
toms for the carriage of their produce
was no less annually, in time of war than
3,250,000 dollars, and in war and peace
averaged, no less than 1,392,857 dollars.
Allowing about one tht'rd of this carriage
for the reasonable (hare of Great Britain
(and for reasons formerly derived from
the character of our exports this was a
full (hare) the annual loss from the depen
dence might be called about one million
of dollars.
These calculations he recapitulated
thus : Dollars.
Indian war 1,000,000
Fuit trade
Algerine depredations
Insurance not reduced by the
naval armament
British spoliations
Consequential detriment to
our trade
Dependence on British bot
tom» 0 1,000,000
Total 3,550,000
From this view of things, it was impos
sible to deny, that however prosperous the
United States might be in some refpe&s..
they were in others laboring under viola
tions of their rights and interests, which
demanded the serious attention of the Le
gislature. Besides the unreciprocal foot
ing of their commerce, and the indignities
offered them, it was seen that they were
burdened with an enormous extra expence,
and involved in unjust lodes, amounting to
more than three and a half millions of dol
lars in a year ; a tax nearly equal to the
heavy one they had been obliged to im
pose on themselves.
Having taken this view of our situation,
he proceeded to consider how far a reme
dy wascomprifed in the resolutions before
the committee, by tracing the probable
operation of them, if parted into a law.
[In this stage of his observations, the hour
of adjournment being nearly arrived, he fat
down, with an intimation that the fubjecft
would be renewed.]
( Speech to be continued.)
PRICE of STOCKS.
6 per cents, i >jf
3 ditto, §/*
Deferred, g/5
U. S. Bank, per {ent. adv.
Pennsylvania do. 6 ditto ditto.
LAW OF THE UNION.
THIRD CONGRESS OF THE
UNITED STATES,
AT THE FIRST SESSION',
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Monday
the lecond of December, one thousand
fevert hundred and ninety-three*
An ACT in alteration of the A3 ejlabljh
ing a Mint and regulating ({t Coins of
the United States.
Sec. I. T)E it enaSed ly the Senate and
1 J House of Reprefentati-ves of
the United States of America, in Cengrefs
ajfembled, That from and after the passing
this ast, it shall be the duty of the Trca
furer of the Mint, to receive and give re
ceipts for all metals which may lawfully be
brought to the mint to be coined ; and
for th« purpose of ascertaining their re
fpeftive qualities, (hall deliver from every
paicel so received, a fufficient number of
grains to the Allayer, who (hall allay all
such of them as may require it. And
the said Treasurer (hall from time to time
deliver the said metals to the Chief Coiner
to be coined in such quantities as the Di
rector of the Mint may prescribe.
Sec. 2. And le it further enaHed, That
the AlTayer and Chief Coiner of the Mint,
previous to entering upon the execution
of their refpe&ive offices, shall each be
come bound to the United States of A
merica, with one or more sureties to the
fatisfa&ion of the Secretary of the Trea
sury, the said Allayer in the sum of one
thousand dollars, and the said Chief Coi
ner in the sum of five thousand dollars,
with condition for the faithful and dilli
gent performance of the duties of his of
fice.
Sec. 3. And le it further enaßed, That
so much of the att, entitled " An ast ef
tahlifhing a Mint and regulating the Coins
of the United States," as comes within
the purview of this act, be and the fame
is hereby repealed.
Frederick Augustus Muhlenperc,
Speaker of the House of
Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United States and President
of the Senate.
Approved March the 1
third, 1794. j
G". Washington, President of the
United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the Office
of the Secretary of State,
Edm. Randolph, -
Secretary of State.
For the Gazette of the United States■
200,000
600,000
THE danger of our being drawn into
the war, has not pafled over. The cloud
is ft ill black, and agitated with the strug
gles of an imprifoncd whirlwind. It may,
in spite of all the efforts we can make to
shun it, burst upon our unsheltered heads.
God forbid ! War would set us afloat
once more—it would sweep away, like a
torrent, all that ten years ®f peace have
gathered j yet, dreadful as it would be,
perhaps we ftiall be compelled to face it.
Appearances are to the last degree threat
ening. The sober citizens, the true pa
triots who love their country bell when
they tremble for its fafety, ftiould now
take their post.
200,000
150,000
400,000
The extreme danger to our peace is
obvious. What shall be done ? Nothing
ralh—nothing that will bring us a step
nearer to a war—nothing that will aggra
vate the danger without affording us any
aid to resist it—no angry measures to in
dulge our own resentments, and to exas
perate those of any foreign nation. Court
peace—maintain it as long as it can be
maintained. Even when it (hall be seen
that it must be finally loft, def»r war to
the last, because we may profit by such a
delay to prepare for war—we may be
gaining strength, while the nations of
Europe are wafting their resources and
their rage. The chance of events is thus
also on our fide. Time hurries on chan
ges of the most unexpected kind, and some
of them may favor our desire for peace,
or our measures for ajuft defence. The
combinations of nations may break to
pieces, and we may be able then to take
high ground for peace or war. Never was
there more need of prudence. It is a
crisis which rashness and intemperate paf
lions may turn to our ruin.
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
By publilhing the following, you will
oblige a constant reader.
THE gentleman (if I may be allowed
to call him so) who urged a sailor that fat
in the front of the gallery in the Play
house last evening, to insult a Lady who
fat in one of the fide-boxes, had better
desist from such practices in future
otherwise his name (hall appear in full
length.
Also, some others, who gave fnuff for
the purpose of having it thrown down
into the Pit. Such practices (ifrepeated)
will meet with the resentment due to their
merits, and the names of the party will
be held up to public view.
A Friend to good Order.
March 6, 1794.
From thi Poughkcepjic Journal.
To the Democratic Societies of Kentuc-
ky, Philadelphia and New-York.
I TOO belong to a Society, the hitlory
of which is this. In the year 1775, when
real dangers were at our doors, the free
people of North-America formed a society,
the a£ting committee of which, was called
the Continental Congress ; it did its duty ;
it was patriotically supported, and finilhed
its destination gloriously.
In the year 1788, it was deemed ex
pedient to new model the society ; and it
now consists, of a general, or national
committee, and fifteen fnbordinate ones.
Neither the one or the other, have as yet
betrayed their trulls; but vigilantly and
and properly, pursue measures, which have
secured to the people of this country, a
degree of felicity beyond what often falls
to the lot of humanity. The officers in
the several departments are men, and as
such, may sometimes be mistaken.—As
yet, no alarming marks of corruption have
been found: but should unwarrantable
ambition, or peculation, be discovered, ei
ther in the primary committee, or in the
smallest department in the remotest corner
of the nation : there is a spirit in the four
millions which would inflantly detest and
punish the tranfgrefior. We want no clubs,
or chimney corner combinations, to {land
centinels for us. Each American is in
himfelf a fortrefs and watchman ; and ill
betides the foe that doubts it.
It is really amusing, to hear little ob
fcnre spots of people, utterly unknown by
the law, talk of crimes and punifhm'nts ;
apeing the Jacobins of France, with whom,
suspicion is proof; and trial, conviflion
and death. If your finances are not too
punv, I would advise you to import a
complete guillotine, with cords for pinion
ing, and a baflcet to receive the heads.
But if this cannot be effe&ed, apply to
the mother [Society of Paris, and they
will undoubtedly with infinite fatisfa&ion,
furnifh you with a model, and ample di
rections how to ufetbat commodious state
machine. They will tell you perhaps,
that beheading Federalists is the present
reigning fafhton in France ; and that it is
too delightful a recreation, not to be
universally enjoyed.
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
The " Observer" in your paper of
lad evening, gives a whimsical account of
the remarks made by a gentleman to a la
dy on the performers in the Jealous Wife,
in which the vanity and prejudice of some
Europeans and travellers are well pictured.
This person whose ignorant criticisms the
Observer so justly exposes, is far from be
ing the only one in this City who holds
the fame language.
There are many persons who have been
in Europe or are natives of it, whole ri
diculous desire, to be thought to know and
have seen more than others, induces them
to depreciate every thing on this fide of
the Atlantic. They will tell you with a
wonderful degree of discernment, that
this country is incapable of producing a
finifhed or even a tolerable good A6l or ;
and that filch as aie biouglit here from
London arc the mere ouUaJls of the Com
panies there—nothing more than candle-
JnuJfers and Jlage-Jiverpers—(this expres
sion, I have very lately heard used more
than once.) I pretend not to a critical
discernment in these matters, nor by any
means to be a perfect judge of Theatrical'
abilites—vet I will hazard an obf:rva-
SENEX.
A CAUTION.
ORDER,Uon on these vain and ill-natured reflec
tions on Meflrs. IVignell isf Reinacls's
Company.
That this country should be incapable
of producing a good actor, I can scarce
ly believe, when speaking is so great a re
quilite in the completing a linifhed per
former. It is a well known fact, that
there are gentlemen in this country, both
at the bar and in public bodies, that per
haps yield to none in the world as Ora
tors—and, I think scarcely any person
will deny that our pulpit orators are fully
equal, if not superior any to in the uni
verse. If therefore we have produced
such a number of persons in the different
characters of legislators, lawyers, and di
vines, that yield the palm to none, why
could not equal talents for the flage be
found ? With regard to the other, that
no performers of merit ever come to this
country, this must molt certainly be a ve
ry erroneous and falfe opinion, if any re
liance can be placed on the English them
selves. The firft rate judges there, of
Theatrical abilities, have declared, that
Mrs. IVhithck, (who they will hardly de
ny is now here with the New Company,)
was second to no one, except her sister,
Mrs. Siddons, and but one degree inferior
to her; and I believe if real justice was
done them, there are many others who
would receive the fame applause. I have
been told by an Englishman who has fre
quently seen Mr. Chalmers on the stage in
Europe, that he was a very distinguished
and eminent performer there ; as further
proof of which, I beg leave to introduce
an article that appeared in Mr. Brown's
Philadelphia Gazette of lalh evening.
In the Morning Pofl, a London paper of
the 25th of Juiy, we find the following
article :
" The vefTel that was to have failed
with the Theatrical performers last week
for Philadelphia, has put back, and is now
detained in the river. In addition to
Miss Broadhurjl, Mrs. Marjhall, Mrs.
Shaw, &c. Mr. Chalmers is engaged.—
Talents, like his, (hould not be loft to the
Engljh Stage—for in Tragedy and Come
dy, he has held for the last three years,
the moji di/lingui/bed line of aSing, in the
Theatres Royal of both Ireland and Scot
land. The (hip fails with this enterpri
zing company on Sunday morning."
What then can be 'inferred fiom their
paltry attempts to itnderate the talents
and abilities of the performers Mr. IVig
nell has brought to this country, but a pi
tiful vanity, or incorrigible prejudice, that
will never allow that merit can be found
in any other place, than the (pot from
whence they sprang. And it is sincerely
wished, that the Observer may fulfill his
promise of handling such felf created and
felf-impoitant censors, " without mit
" tens."
A FRIEND TO MERIT.
March 4th, i 794.
For the Gazstts of the United States.
TO THE OBSERVER.
I HAVE given some of your numbers
a cursory reading, without taking much
trouble in considering whether your high
claims to candour wera well founded or
pot.
I nevertheless fufpefted, that as men of
the largest profefiion9, are generally the
lead sincere, you had some covert object
in view, for the accomplishment of which
you were endeavoring to eflablifli a repu
tation for candour to which you had no
jult pretensions, and your fifth number
seems to juftify the suspicion. After giv
ing an account of a conversation which
you fay you " accidentally heard at the
Theatre last evening between a gentleman
and lady," (iffuch a conversation really
happened, you might have said between a
P—y and a Lady) you proceed to remark,
" That the Obferveris in justice bound
to add, that since then, he baa received
information from indisputable authority,
that this company of Players are persons
of irreproachable characters, as men and
women, and as performers many of them
have not left superiors and some not equals
in Europe
That many if not all of them are of
irreproachable characters, and that they
have very great merit on the stage, I am
well fatisfied of, but the aflertion that
" many of them have not left superiors and
fame not equals in Europeis nlmolt too
extravagant to merit a serious refutation,
and would hardly have been made by a
person really po(Telling the candor to
which "c: "-etend,
If " many of them have not left fuperiori
in Europe" it follows, that we have many
performers, any one of whom, is equal to
the iirft performer in Europe! And if
some of them have not left equals in Europe;
it follows, that neither Mrs. Siddons or any
aSor, or actress in any country in Europe is
equal to some of the company of the Nezo
Theatre!
Contrail this with your following re
marks, and endeavour to extricate your
felf from the contradiction into which you
seem to have fallen. You fay " Mrs.
Whitlock's articulation is so perfe&ly just,
her face, her eye, and indeed her whole
attitude and gesticulation* come so near
the model you had feigned to yourfelf, for
an aftrefs, that you must do a violence to
your own fellings not to declare, that altho'
Jhe may not be equal to Mrs. Siddons, yet
(he is so equal to any expectations we had
entertained in America, the feaft of feing
and hearing her on the stage you hope
will be frequently repeated."
So then Mr. Obfervei, while you admit
that Mrs. Whitlock, the heroine of your
eulogium " may not be equal to Mrs. Sid
dons," you would have us believe, that
" some belonging to the New Theatre
have not left their equals in Europe." Be
fore we can do this, you must either fatis
fy us, that Mrs. Whitlock holds but an
inferior rank on the Americali stage, or
that Mrs. Siddons does not live in Europe,
but in Asia, Africa or America—lf you
can do neither, you must give over all pre
tensions to candour, or acknowledge that
the fault was in your head, and not in your
heart—lt is Mr. Observer, an old but just
proverb, that " an imprudent friend is the
worst of enemies," and you have so com
pleatly verified it, that if you really wish
to serve the cause you fcem to espouse,
I recommend to you to change your sig
nature, since you will no longer be regard
ed under your prcfent one—several of the
new performers are admirable in Tragedy
as well as in Comedy, and it is really a
pity that you should have Tragedized them
in so tragi-comicul a manner.
A SUBSCRIBER.
PHIL A'D ELP HI A,
MARCH 7.
The Peterfburgh paper of the 25th ult.
mentions the arrival of the (hip Harriot at
Norfolk, from Lymington, which place
'he left about the 25th December. The
only articles of news brought by this veflel,
which appear in the Peterfbiirg paper, are
the following :
There has been a quarrel between Dan
ton and Roberfpierre in the Convention,
which ended in a decree that they and the
President should fettle and make up the
dispute by a fraternal embrace in the pre
sence of the members.
On the 22d of November the Royalists
attacked the Republicans in Alsace, and
though fucoefsful in the firft onset, were
afterwards defeated, and so great was the
(laughter, that it is believed the party is
exterminated.
At the celebration of the Birth-Day of
the President of the United States in
Richmond, Virginia; and Annapolis, in
Maryland, the following Toasts were
given:
A speedy e(labli(hment of an American
Navy ; and success to the author of the
proposition, and its advocates.
Pain to our Sham friends, and Cham
paigne to our Real ones.
CONGRESS.
House of Representatives.
Thursday, March 6.
Several petitions were read and refer
red.
Mr. Trumbull reported a bill making
appropriations for the support of the mili
tary ellablifhment of the United States for
the year 1794 —which was twice read,
and committed for to-morrow.
A petition was presented by Mr. Watts,
from Stephen Paranque, captain of a
French Indiaman now lying in the port of
New-York, praying for reasons dated, a
longer time than is allowed by the letter
of the law, for the payment of the duties
on goods to be landed from said ship, giv
ing the cultomary bonds—this petition
was referred to a feleft committee.
Mr. W. Smith reported a bill making
provisions in cases of disability of a diflritt
judge—this was read/twice and committed
In committee of the \\ hole on the bill
to prohibit the carrying on the Have trade
from the ports of the United States—Mr.
Boudinot in the chair—The two hrftfec
tions of the bill were agreed to with one
alteration moved by Mr. Trumbull, which
was to give the Diltrid Court as well as
the Circuit Courts, cognizance of the of
fence.
The third fe£tion which relates to the
.penalty, 3cc. it was moved should be (truck
ollt —This motion was negatived—lt wa»
then moved to insert the word Foreign be
fore ' Ship or VelTel'—which was agreed
to.
The committee proceeded through the
bill—which was reported to the House
with sundry amendments—these were a
greed to by the House, and the bill order
ed to be engrofled for a third reading.
In committee of the whole on the biff
to provide for destroyed certificates of a
certain description—Mr. Bourn in the
chair; the bill being read, a motion was
made that the committee should rife and
report the fame—this was drtne ; it was
then voted that it be read the third time.
Mr. Watts of the committee on the pe
tition of Stephen Paranque, Capt. of the
French Jndiaman, brought in a report
which is in favor of the petitioner ; the re
port was accepted by the House, and a
bill ordered to be brought in puifuant
thereto.
A bill to provide for the expence attend
ing the intercourse between the United
States and foreign nations was taken up in
committee of the whole, Mr. Bo m in the
chaii; this bill being read, Mr. W. Smith
moved to add a (Virion to continue in force
f° r an ast already extant on this
fjbjeft ; this amendment was agreed to;
the bill was then reported to the House,
and with the amendment laid on the table
til] to-morrow.
Mr. S. Smith reported a bill for allow
ing to Lieut. Col. Toufard an equivalent
for his half pay for life—twice read and
committed for to-morrow.
In committee of the whole on the Hand
ing rules and orders, Mr. Boudinotin the
chair : The committee, after some discus
sion rose and reported progress—and the
House adjourned.
Friday, March 7,
The bill to prevent the carrying on the
slave trade from the ports of the United
States to any foreign place or country was
read the third time and parted.
The bill limiting the time for present
ing claims for destroyed certificates, was
read the third time and pafTed. The
blank for the time to be allowed for pre
senting the claims, was filled with " the
firft day of June 1795.
A meflage from the Senate, by Mr.
Otis their Secretary, informed the lSoufe
that they have pasTed the appropriation
bill with amendments.
Another meflage from the Senate, in
formed the Honfe, that they have ap.
pointed a committee to join a committee
of the House, for the purpose of consider
ing what business is neceflaiy to be done
the present feflion—what may without in
jury to the public service, be referred over
to the next feflion, and to report whether
the present may not be closed on the firft
Monday of April next.
The enrolled bill providing for the re
mifiion of the foreign tonnage duty on
sundry French veflels, wa6 brought in and
figued by the Speaker.
In committee of the whole 011 the bill
to provide a naval armament—Mr. Bou
dinot in the chair—
In the firft fedtion Mr. S. Smith moved
to strike out 20 guns, and to insert 36
which makes the force proposed, four (hips
44 g uns > an d two of 36 guns each—
the committee proceeded through the se
veral fettions of the bill, and made sundry
amendments in refpe£t to officers, rations,
&c.
Mr. B. Bourn observed, that the force
contemplated would afford no protection
to the Commerce of the United States,
for the present season—as it would require
several months to build and equip the
ships. He therefore moved to add ano
ther fe&ion, the objeff of which wa«, to
authorize the President of the United
States to provide a temporary protedlion,
till the ships proposed by the bill, (hall be
ready.
Mr. Fitzfiijions said the bill did net
restrict tile Prtiident to (hips to be built
—He m-'.y life his discretion in procuring
the reqnifite force.
The motion after some debate was ne
gatived.
The committee then rose and reported
the bill with amendments—the amend
ments were taken into conlideration by
the House— and all of them agreed to.
Several other amendments were propo
sed, some of which were agreed to—and
then the bill palled to be cngroiled for a
third reading on Monday.
Adjourned till Monday.
We are informed, that there is a Bri
tifli order of Government in town, in
which the commanders of the veftels of
war of that nation, are directed to take
and carry into British ports, all vclTels
loaded with provisions, bound either to
I' ranee, or to her colonics—alfo all veffelj
loaded with the produce of the French
1 (lands.
C"7" The Merchants and Traders of the
city of Philadelphia, are desired to rr.tet cn
Saturday evening, at 7 o'clock, at Barnabas
M'Shane's tavern, the sign of the Harp : nd
Crown, North Third-street, to receivr the
report of their committee, and to appoint a
committee to colleift information reipefling
the capture and detention of veflels belonging
to the citizens of the United States, by the
cruisers of the nations at war, to lay the fame
before the President of the United States,
with such representations as they may find ne
ceflary.
NEW THEATRE.
THIS E VENING, March 7,
Will be performed,
A NEW COMEDT,
(never performed here) called
Every one has his Fault.
Lord Norland, Mr. Whitlock.
Sir Robert Ramble, Mr. Chalmers.
Mr. Solus, Mr. Morris.
Mr. Harmony, Mr. Bates.
Captain Irwin, Mr. Fenncll.
r. Placid, Mr. Moreton.
Hammond, Mr. Green.
Porter, Mr. Warrell.
Edward', Mrs. Marfliall.
Lady Eleanor Irwin, Mrs. Whitlock.
Mrs. Placid, Mrs. Rowfon.
Mils Spiniler, Mrs. Dates.
Miss Wooburn, Mrs. Morris.
The Epilogue by Mrs. Whitlock.
At the end of the Comedy,
A COMIC DANCE,
Composed ly Mr. Francis, called
The SCHEMING CLOWN,
OR, THE
S PORTSMANTiECEIVED:
By Mr. Francis, Mr. Darley, juii. a«d
Mrs De Marque.
To <u>hich will be added,
A FARCE, in two A&s, (performed
here but once) called
The Viillage Lawyer.
Scout, Mr. Harwood.
Snarl, Mr. Francis.
Slieepface, Mr. Bates.
Justice Mittimus, Mr. Warrell.
Charles, Mr. Cleveland.
Mrs. Scout, Mrs. Rowfon..
Kate, Mrs. Bates.
Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarter»
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.
.*** As inconveniencies to the public have
arisen frcm the Box-book being opened on the
days of performance only, in future attend
ance will be given at the office in the Theatre
every day from ten till one, and on the davs
of performance from ten till three o'clock in
the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, it i»
refpe&fully requcfted, may be addrcfled to
Mr. Franklin, at the Box-Office.
The Doors will be opened at < o'clock,
and the performances begin at 6 o'clock pre
cisely.
Vivat Refptihlka.
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All coinminions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year t
the French Republic, one and ind.vifitle
(March-6th, 1794, o. s.)
The Minifttr Plenipotentiary cf the French
Republic. 1 JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of neH'fpapcrs within the
United States, are requelted to repuUuii the
lo'.ice.
LOST,
In M rkcT ftrerf. between Fourth ?nd
Tiont ft-eets,a 5 Dollar DANK NOTE
of the Bank of the United States. Any
perfbn fl u'-njj the r ame, and will return
if to the Printer, (hall receive the thanks
of the fowner.
Msrch "thJo be Sold at Public Venatie,
On Friday the Ilthday of April next,
at the house of John Tbomjon, in Perth-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY
THF. Lot contains elcvtn acres, on which is
an orchard of giafted apple trees, a well of
cxce.ltm water, a large ltone c-ftern, and a very
commodious stable and coach-house, and a great
qiijtiiicy ot the befl building stones in the walls
ot the house, which was formerly built lor the
residence of the Governors of New-JtrCry. The
Gtuation of this Lot is so well known for its
beaiihinefs and beautiful profpeft of the Rariton
to the weft of the bav, and Sandy-Hook to
«he edft, thai a further defciiption is unn< ceffary.
The conditions of sale will be, one third ot the
purchafc money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, when a good and fufficicnt Deed will
be given (o the puichafer, by Waltrr Ru
th er fur d, "Esq. Prcfident of the Board of
Proprietors ot the Eastern Division of New-
Jcrlev, <nn the remaining two thirds fatisfa&o
rily secured in equal annual payments.
By order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Rcgifter.
Perth-Amboy, February 5, 1794. 2aw2tn
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public, That from thp encouragement
he has received, from several refpe&able Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his services to
all ihofe Gentlemen, who can place confidence
in him ; and ho assures tliofe who employ him,
thai their confidence (hall not be misplaced -
bui it shall be his constant endeavor, to pay the
ftri&eft attention to theit best interest, in all ne.
goctatmns whatever. He has taken the Chamber,
in State-Street, over Mr. David Town fen Watch
Makc.'s Shop. Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIKS, of all kinds, are bought and fold; and
where Comtniflion Bufincfs of all kinds, will be
tranfaded on reasonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be constantly exposed forfale, on
commiflion,
%* Ca(h paid for Salem, Providence, and
Porifmouih BILLS.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, o r
New-York, has any Pujtnefs to travfatt at Boften*
in Paper Negoct itions, he will be nappy to be em
ployed on cemmiffion.
Ballon, Jan. 24, 1794.
War Department.
January 30tb 1794.
INFpRMATION is hereby given to all the
military invalids of the United Sia<e!>,that the
sums to which they are entitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on he sth day ot March 1794, will be paid on
the £»id day by the Commimonei* of the Loans
within the states refpe&ively, under the usual re-
gulations.
Applications of executors and adminiflrators
mull be accompanied with legal evidence of
their rcfp<&»ve offices, and also of the time the
inyalid*4red, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prefidcnt
of the United States,
The printers in the refpeftive states are
requefted'to publish the above 111 their newspa
pers for the (pace of two months.
January 30,
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE BY
M.Carey, No. 118, High-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commfntart on Common Saxings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the beji sense in the world.
TH IS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all cladls of people, merchants, me
chanics and farmers. S'ich a reputation has this
wotk acquired, that it has parted thro three im
prelfions in the eastern states, and many houle
nolde's deem it so ufetul as to purchase a copy
for every adult iu then families. ■■Price 2s.
February 4. dtf
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the fubferiber has been duly ap
pointed Administratrix on the estate of,
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herlelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law dire<sts—and all perfonsin
terefted, are defirtd to take notice accord
ingiy.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
ALL persons who have any demands ajrainft
iheEflatc of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Sobfcriber, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who (land indebted to said Estate, are
requested to fettle with him immediately; as the
Ast of Limitation of Actions, which is to take
place on the firft day of December will
other wife render it necefiary for him co com
mence suits against them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793-
N. B The Printer# throughout this Com
monwealth, are requested to infect this in their
refpeftive new/papers, and forward their ac
couuts for the fame, to J. M.
A CHOICE COLLECTION,
In the various branches of Literature, im
ported by the last arrivals from Europe,
for Sale at very reasonable prices, by
James Kennedy,
No. a 6, Spnuty between Front &2d Streets,
Amon? which are the following :
CHAMBERS'S Dictionary of Arts and Sci
ences, 5 Vols. Folio.
Henry's Bible and Commentary, 6 Vols. Folio.
Univerf.il History, 7 Vols. Folio.
Churchill's Colle&ion of Voyages, 6 Vols. Folio.
Palladio's Archite&ure, bed Edition, 2 Vols.
Folio in one.
Rapin's History of England, with Tindal's con
tinuation, 3 Vols, Folio.
Hume's Hiftorv of ditto, with Smollet's ditto.
14 Vols. O&avo.
Malton's complete Treatise of Perfpe&ive, 2
Vols, in one.
Bruce's Travels, London Edition, 5 Vols. 4to.
Clavigero's History of Mexico, 2 do. do.
Robertfon's History of America, 2 do. do.
Maclaurin's Newton's Philosophy, 4(0.
M'Knight's Harmony of the Golpels, do.
Lowman on the Revelations, do. .
Locke on the Epistles, do.
Lcdwick's Antiquities of Ireland, do.
Whitehurft's Theory of the Earth, do.
Glass's Account of the Canary I (lands, do.
The Annual Register, from Commencement
to 1791, inclusive, 34 Vols.
Niebuhr's Voyage to Arabia, 2 Vols, Octavo.
Bartram's Travels thro' the Southern States.
Some of the very latest and best Collisions of
Voyages and Travels.
Creviers Lives ot the Roman Emperors 10 Vols.
Oflavo.
L'Antiquiae expliquee par B. Montlaucon, 15
Tom. so.
Antiquiies d'Egypte par Norden.
Diftionnaire Htitorique g Tom.
Theatre de Voltaire eleg. relie, 9 Tom.
Hiftoire Romain par Rollin, 16 Tom,
Oeuvresde Boileau, de Moliere, &c. with many
others equally good. A Catalogue of which
may be lcen at the place of Sale.
He has also for Salt,
An excellent Hadley's Quadrant.
A few Acromatic Pocket Pcrfpeftive Glades.
A Camera Obfcura.
A capital German Flute, with 6 Keys, and ad
ditional joints.
And a few elegant colour'd Piints,
Feb. 28
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying,
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at th«
shortest notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte-
Teens, windsor fulkeys and chain, and liarnefs
of every description, in the neatest and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as be has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa<stion to those whopleafe to employ him.
He has for sale, several carriages almost
finilhed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chaif, hung on steel springs, a light phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
H. KNOX,
Secretary oj War.
dam
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
December 21(1,1793.
WHEREAS the Commifiioners of public
Accounts, have reported, that they can
not proceed to the investigation of the Treasury
Accounts, refpe&ing special Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation Therefore,
Rtfolvtdy That all holders of special Indents
be diretted, and required, on or before the firft
day of November n<*xt, to deliver the special In
dents in their poflcfli«n to one or other of the
Commiflioners of the Treasury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to report to ibeCom
miflioners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
them refpe&ively received, and also to the Le
gtflature, at their meeting in November next.
And that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the fitft day
of November next, ihall be, and the fame are
hereby barred.
Rejolvcd. That public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And that the Delegates of this
State in the Congress of the United States, be re
quested to cause this resolution to be publiQted
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for the expencea attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
•Senate for their concurrence.
December ft, 1793.
Resolved, That this House do concur with the
Houle of Reprcfentatives in the foregoing refo
lorions.
Ordered, That the resolutions be lent to the
House of Representatives.
ewtNov.
BOOKS.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794. m&rt3m
In the House of Representatives,
By order of the House,
JOHN SANFORD DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
By order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
FOR SALE,
By MATHF.W CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery:
Defined to exhibit in a new point ot view,
its eftt£U on motals y indujiry, and the peact if
ocitty. Some fatts and calculations are offered
ro prove thr labor offreemen to be much more
proauflh'e than that ot slaves ; that countries arc
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people eojoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the nrceflaty conclusion, that
slavery is impolitic as well as unjujl.
dtf
Price 25 Cents.
February 15
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subfcribcr intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b<gs leave to of
fer his ferviccsto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their buftnefs, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the uimoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will he ftriftly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
Philadelphia, February 13, 1794.
PROPOSALS
For printing by Subscription,
A Work, to be entitled,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Pcnnfylvania State Trials.
THE want of fufficient information of the
state trials of Great-Britain in the early
periods of that government is now lamented :
Hi herto there hath been but one trial in the
state of Pennsylvania on impeachment :—and
herealfo it is to be regretted, that, being neg
le&ed at the time, the public are now left with
out fufficient information on the fubjefl of that
trial, it is however in this work designed to ref
cuefwhat can be colle&ed thereof from sources
of iudifputaple authority, f 0 that the fame (hall
be preserved from oblivion.
Another impeachment and the second is now
depending. An officer is charged by the late
House of Representatives, who hath for many
years been largely confided in by this ftate,and
hath long b; en at the head of the financial de
partment of the fame, and it imports the citi
zens to know his conduct, and the circumftanccs
which may be brought forward on hi*trial.
In this work the Editor will be careful to
state the facts, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers beiore
the public.—With this view—
The following Terms are* refpefifully
submitted to the Public :
I. The Work (hall be printed in oflavo, with a
good type, on fine paper, and delivered to
fubfer ibers at the refpe&ive places where the
fnbfcrrptions arc taken in, as soon as the work
shall be compleaied.
11. As no eonje&ure can well be made, as to
the length of the present trial, the (ize of the
volume cannot be ascertained at this time
But the price (hail not exceed that of fomeof
the latest publications in this city.
111. It will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental circumstances that may occur during
the trial of John Nicholfon, Esquire, Comp°-
troHer-General of this commonwealth, w j,h
theargumentsofcounfel on both fides,together
with the articles of impeachment, and the
pleas and replications at large, the several re
solutions of the two branches of the state Le
gislature, refpefting this impeachment, and
the final decision of the SENATE refpefling
that officer.
To which will be prefixed, as much as can be
colle&ed from authentic documents, of the im
peachment, trial, and aequital of the late Francis
Hopkinfon, Esquire, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty for the state of Pennsylvania, during
the late war, never before pnbliffied.
No money will be required before the deli
very of the book.
Subscriptions will be received by Francis
Bailey, No. 116, High-street ; Wrigley and Ber
riman, No. 149, Chefnuuftreet, and by the dif
ferent booksellers in this city; Jacob Bailey,
Lancaster ; Yundt and Patton, Baltimore, and
by the Editor.
*4teop.
EDMUND HOGAJJ.
N. B. The price will be enhanced to non.
fshfcribejs. Feb. iB. taw .f
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON the 31ft of last month, the fubferibt r ad
dressed a letter to Mcffrs. Thomas Pear/all
£2 Son, merchants in New-York, and inclofcd
therein a bank note, No. 445, for twenty dol
lars ; one ditto, No. 151, tor thirty dollars;
and one ditto, No. 3,866, for twenty dollars.
—He also addressed a letter to Mr. Gilbert
Saltonjlall, merchant in New-York, inclosing a
bank bill, No. 148, for fif:y dollais, indotfed
on ihe back thereof in these words— *• Pa) the
within to Mr. Gilbert Saltonjlall—- then. Hunting
ton —He also addressed a letter to Messrs. White
& Wardell % merchants in and inclo
fcd a bank bill for ten dollars, and a draft in fa
vor of fa id White & Warded % which letters were
put in the Poft-Office 011 said 31ft January, to
be forwarded to New-York : But by letters re
ceived from the Gentlemen to whom they were
severally addressed, the money was robbed
from each letter before delivery.
The Public are tequeOed to endeavor a dej
teftion of the Villains who committed the above
robbery. The bill indotfed, I think, was a York
bank bill, and some others, oue or more was
of the United States bank, remitted at Philadel
phia. Any person dilcoveung the Thief, and
rcturn-ng the Money, (hall be entitled to fifty
dollars reward.
EBEN. HUNTINGTON.'
Norwich, 14th Feb. 1794. 3^314w
A RECOMPENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby offered by the President «nd Direc
tors of the Bank of the United States, to any
person who (hall, on or before the fifft day of
May next, produce to therg such a plan and e!c~
vauon of a Eanking Houfc, as (lutll be apptovrtl
of by them.—A plain, yet handtome from is
d 1 fired : The whole building is to be fubfUniul
and commodious with as much space around it,
as thr size of the giound will admit.
The Lot on which the building is to be rreO
ed, is situated on the weft fideof Third-(lrce»s
between Chefnut and Walnut-ftrcets in Phi law
delphia ; and its dimensions are ito feet on
Third-street, and about iqq feet weft#ard,
THOMAS WILLING, fcrefident.
e p 3W.
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollar Si on 266,000
Dollars, deducting 15 per Cent. from
the Prhc.es—this Lottery conjtfls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
1 4*539 Prices and 23,461 Blanks,
about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Dire&ors of the Society for establishing
Ufeful Manufactures, having refolvcd to
erett LOTTERIES for raiting On e Hu nor ed
Thousand Dol l ars, agreeably to an Afcl of
the Legislature of the State of New-Jersey, have
appointed the following persons to superintend
and direst the drawing of the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rofus King, Herman Le Roy, Jamea
Watson, Richa.rd Harrifon, Abijah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city of Nrw-Yoik—
Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew Bayard, of the city of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
Elias Boudinot, General El>as Dayton, James
Parker, John Bayard, Do&or Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton, Joshua M. Wallace, Joseph
Bloomfield, and Elifha Boudinot, of Ni w-»Jer
fey, who offer the following Scheme of a Lot
tery, and pledge themselves to the public, that
they will take every assurance and precaution in
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from time to time, as received, into
the Banks at New-Yoik and Philadelphia, to
remain for the pui pose of paying Priz s, which
(hall ' be immediately discharged by a check
upon one of the Banks.
SCHEME:
1
1
2
5
10
20
ico
300
1000
Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 20,000
10,000
5,000
2,000
1,000
500
100
50
20
l 5
12,
10
2000
3000
8100
1 4*539 P'izfs. ______
23,461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Last drawn number, 2,000
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266.009
The drawing will commence, under the in
fpeftion of a Committee of ihc Superintcndant*,
as soon as the Tickets are fold,ot which timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendants have appointed John N.
Camming, of Newark, Jacob R. Hirdenberg,
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Tienton, as immediate Managers theieof, who
have given ample security for difchaiging the
trust reposed in them.
(£3* In order to secure the pun&ual payment
of the Prizes, the Superintendanisof the Lottery
have directed that the Managers shall each enter
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four fufficient
fecunties, to perform their infti u&ions, the sub
stance of which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
(hall rcceivethe sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he shall immdiately place the fame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit of the Governor of theSocietv, and such
of the Superintendants as live in the city where
the monies are placed, to remain there until the
Lottery is drawn, for the payment of the Prize*.
11. The Managers to take fufficient security
for any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
refponuble for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ftra&s of which (ball be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January t, 1794.
On application to either of the aboye gentle,
men, information will be given where tickets
may be had.
February 24.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible Htuation,—alfb a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 43 acres of Jand and meadow, the
Houle is not exceeded by many in the vicinltf
of the city, in iize or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23,
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pound*,
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire'of the Editor.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
i«»,ooo
10,000
15,000
20,000
30,000
36,000
81,000
262,000
tawtf.
m&th—tt'