F. V E N I N G AP V E R T I S E R.
•>T„ ,- , nf Vol. V.I Tpuksoay, May 8, .-94- [Whole No. 52..]
rHli-- Balti ' raore '
bJLTJMORE,
I'iRRY BENS.ON, Mjfte r .
Burthen about 140 tops, is i "' e , nded '"•'f''
se fooo a-! hpr inward cargo is diMiarjed, 1111-
less freight fUould °fle r ffe detain her.
For freight apply to the Captain on tfoard
at Kamilroti's wli»rf, or tp
SAMUEL & MIERS FISHER,
, K Who faye/or
A FEW PJPES
Cargo Tenerilfe wine
And'a tetr pipes Iwveet
Excellent Sherry Wine in quarter calks
London Porter in»!?nnUon-cufic
White and Red Lead Brpivn
Tin plates in borxes
An a(T>'tment of East India Fans, JJan
keeni and Silks •
With a general affortmervt of Merchandize
, as usual. " ,
s th Mo. j, i; 94 ; ■
For Sale or Charter,
411%^NDROMACtfE,,
r (An Amevican.battom)
Jabn Itfoarf, Mfjer.
IS a ft out good veflel, a.!w.ut us. old,
burthen 232 ton', hasonlj inadi three voy-
I «>;es, and m?y be sent to Tea at ? small ex
pence She may be Teen at V'me-ftreet- whaH,
and the terms Wflde knawn <|->m, to
fVHARTON
March 2i. dtt '
For Norfolk isf Frederkksburgh,
SALLY,
John Earl, Matter.
41 staunch £ood vefltl, will fail in a few
dap. For freighter p fiage, apply, to the
matter on board at Ciicfiv.it ilreet wharf, or
10 JOSEPH ANTHONY to; SON.
March 31. ■ ' ■
'J~For Amsterdam,
__ .The new faft-fail;ng\ ropper
bottomed SH*iP
Mm. ADRIAN A,
rfc'iii ~V- K. Fitzpatrick, Mailer.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with,
all convenient speed. For freight .or pafTage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on;
board at Walnntftreet wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Palfengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
Mai-ch 6, 1794 dtf
The following Certifi
cate of the funded three peY Cent Sto<;k of-the
Domcftic Debt of the United Sia'es finding on
the books of ihe Treifury of the said U/nted
States, in the names of Donnald and Burton of
London, merchants. and fighrd by JoJeph
Nourfe, Regiftcx of said Treasury, to ,wit J—
* No. 5476, dated 241b Anguft 1792 for 29,59
dollars and 53 cents was transmitted from Lon
don in the Ihip Peter, Paul Huffey, master,
bound for New York, and has been loft.—
The Subscriber intending to apply to the Trea
furyof the United States to have the fame re
newed, desires all persons who are interested in
the said certificate, to make their
thereto, if any they have.
Francis Macy.
Philad. March 17. d6w
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A feiv bales Holland Duck,
Ditto o%naburgs,
Holland Sheetjpg,
Juniper Berries,
Glass IVare, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious Jizes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and Jlat bars,
Hair Ribband, Wo. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c. £sfc.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
fbmldapplication be made •within a few days ;
el/senwife Jhe will take freight for Amster
dam.
March 1, 1794. d—tf
Wharton and Greeves,
Have removed their Counting House from
Water street, to Morton's wharf,
Wkurf >hy have for Sak,
Madeira and sherry Wine,
fit Jfir immediate isa |
Gin \n cajts,
So\icbong>l'ef,
Black Pepper,
Russia Matts,
Corks,
Jt-fuits Bark,
Coffee, and
Eighty Hhds. prime Tobacco.
Mays. «
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglheads and in ,ca(es of 50 battles each;
, A L,S O,
A. few cases Ghampaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
VAUGHA&
No. hi, {tuulb IJrftu street.
Jan. 2.
Advertisement.
The Editor of the ' Ametiqan Star
ing to pubfilh his paper D All. Y, without an y
augmentation of the prcl'ent^ri f e,,js obliged
so suspend the publication of ir nniil the iSt"
inft. on account of some arrangements.
May "5 . __3L !
City of Washington.
TH<fc Subscribers to the Articles of Agree-J
meat of the " Columbian Society" are rfc
qutfftjed to meet at Mr. Richardet's Tavern
■ in.tbe city of Philadelphia, on Monday the
26th day of" the present month, at 12 o'clock
in order to chodfe a board, of Managers, &:c.'
in cons ormity .with' the 9th article of their a-,
greement.
Jflmes Creenle-af.
N. Dinner wtil b? ordered on the Table
,att 3 o'plock for such' of the Subscribers as,
may choose to pass a foci a 1 hour after the |
oufinefs of the day is finifhed. « . j
May .5. |
tw r=»-T-r ■» TT
NOTICE.
THE SuHfcriber acquaints .the gentlemen and
ladies, of Pry ippods, that
On Monday'the I2tb inft. 1
At 9 o'clock in the morning, he will have rea
dy for sale, at his Wholesale Warehoufe,No.
117, north Second (l-eet ? opposite to Mes
srs. J. V. 7 ". and Wm. Gibbs,
• A NEAT PARCEL
DRY GOODS,
Ju/i imported in thejhip William Penn,from
London,
: C<*n£fting bf £n ailibrtment of
Sattins, modes & persi
ans, narrow corded Dimities, and
some India Mufbns.
Louis Ofmont,
Who has also for fale y
A QUANTITY OF
Looking QJaffes, Framed,
Claret in Caies -of superior quality,
Champaigne Wine, and a few
Boxes Spermaceti Candles.
May 7. dtf
Advertisement.
M. CARPENTIEK, an inhabitant of Sl>
, Domingo, going to Baltimore in the stagc r tou
on his route the jth jail- a, POCKET HOOK
j containing federal and pa'',t'?
cnlarly a draft for 82,50 livres or one
d. liars, in favor of Messrs Zacharie Conp
man and Co. ol Baltimore, " J
Whoever Iball return thep oclfet bQOk.
papers to M. Carpcotier at Baltimore,, or to
the Printer hereof, Jhalj be lecompenfed for
their troubl:.
7 djt
~ FOR SJiL'E; " ! ' "11
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. jiß,
Mai ket-ptreet,
An Essay on Slavery,!
Designed to exhibit in a new point ol view
its effects on morals, indujlry, and the
society. Some fans and calculations are offered
to prove the labor of freemen to be mricii more
productive than that ot Jlaves ; that counines are
rich, powerful and happyin proportion as.Tht
Ipbaring people enjoy the fruits of their owri
labor ; and hence the ncceffaiy condition, thac '
slavery is impolitic as well as unjuji.
Pr ice 25 Certts. dtf |
February 15. j
II Just Imported,
| In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
I St. Petersburg in Ruffiaj
And now landing at SOiitH-ftreet Wharf, viz.
tjEMP, - r
ll BAR JRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
PAYEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HDG's BRISttES.
AND FOR SALE BY "
L* J?bn D?nnqld/on,
: n ' No. 22, Walnut-street.
March 4>! 794- diw;,tawtf
: UNITED STATES.
- 1 •■' *> '
j ALBANY.
ExtrfS of a Utter Jrom an officer in At United
> States' Cavalry, to hisJrifnUn this C/t}-.
Lexington, {Ken,) 5,1794
"The main body of our army is cantoned on
r (he.S. of the Miami,> frx miles ad-
L vnccd of Fort Jcfferfpn, and etghiv f'Qm the r»-
] ver Ohio ; we have also an-eftabh/hed post on
•I -he. fie Id where St. Clair was defeated. Thedit
| ficuU-y /sf.tranf porting forage tor the cavalry to
I, ."he head of our line, induced the commander in
I rhjef- to fend us'to this place for winter quar
ry I ; and where we'fmirid people of faTHibn &
y HoYprtality. We have been ordered fi'om tfils
d 1.4»4l month, and reached head quarters at Green
:h Ville, the 17th, ult. It was intended the light
troops should make an excmfion into the ene
• nvies l, country, destroy their towns and eftatililh
garifonsjScc. but unfavorable Weaker prevented,
i i pt whifh the dragoons were re
j minded back to '.heir win er cantonments,
1 where we arrived the firft ipftaot, after a march
I oK 160 mjles.
n : :i The intention of the comman.der in chief
,e will be effected no doubt by the legion, unlerfs
k of peaceilop the intended blow.
c * t ' l raged at head <
l " I r Ggnations have been accepted, several office rs
h \j* Been caffiiered, many others have fallen by
d itUirig. The May before I left heed quarters,;
] e j..a_->v ! el was foUgh' by a lieutenant in thqfcft frth; *
le ion, with an officer of the fame grade belong-; ,
t u '/to Ihe third, which terminated in the fuddenj
,e | Wifblutio* of both ; this will ca'ufe a' vacancyj .
[ J for. the promotion of my friend^-—*—r. s'eve-.
r I Lsu in who ha^ c , -
if b( n shot in single combat, and it appeais that
li' thcrthe frvere penalties ot the Jaw, nor a
<re, ard fbr a future state, are aAy feWaiVit dnj
this faffiion. Menof fierce courage and high j
fpiqts, often upon trivial feeki
j for prompt revenge proves fatal in itj> con-i
fequcMces. ' I t is'to this p> a&ice officers !n ge-
I "ileral afbtibe the gentleness and ctjmplaifa'nce.;
I :acoompanted with that refpe&ful attention of;
, I r £n ?>? fficerto another whiph so generally pre--
: J vails, and which it is said renders our • fituationr
! I in the army more agreeable'than it would bej
I J without this custom : butwhitfiys fojnd r ea -|
' son and philosophy ?we certainly often get rid j
of troublcfome men this way, but they gerteral-j
I ly lay afidc good chara&ers be'ore they ( -fall. I
• J "(Vur army 'is in high spirits, an 3 have thej
* I greatest confidence in 'the commander'in chief
I as well as in the other general officers. The ca-;
yalry is well formed, and is affur.edly a ye-i
Iry fine corps. The of a j or u "i
dolph,' our Commandant of'horfc, I confiHeredf
j as a great jofV; he was an officer 6f talents and
I high reputation in the army ; he left oui' serVice,
[and departed for France, where I believe he ar
r riveti in ieafon to fee the glorious defeat of the;
combined armies, by Ifte bard' legged freefhenj
I of the French Republic.
I < Onr park of artillery is in ample order, the
I officers generally well appointed, a , P ro ~
J' persy rhdren f6r tlie "service : the infaritry and;
I riflemen cannot be excelled in discipline aAd.
martial appearance. If war is the alternative:
1 with Britain, it may be cqnlidered a fortunate'
j circumstance, that the U. S. have lo ( fine a ic-
I gi-ori of regular troops embodied, prepared foi^
| anyem-e+gency.
'".If England (hould drive us to the extremity
I to obtain compenfatiofl for her piratical .captures
J of. Americaji yeffels ; and ho/lUities commence
r on our part, v t d'o btlieve our army can reduce
I all the'ports from Detrbit to Quiebec. But frr, I
fwicercly hope tne calamityi6f war mby "fce avoi
ded, ?nd that thai haughtv and imperious
j T ftatiop jnay fatisfy our citizens for her un-
I lawftij'feizures.
1 ' ".Satiifaftron'to our commercial men will not
J answer alone, wd'muft not Cdffer Hie western
j polls to remain in the poiTeflion of the Britilh,
1 I The partial war we have heretofore cained on
j &gainst the indians |if conjti.nued) will
I millionsof money, and cut off thousands of
J lives to no ; arid nrilefs we in&ft re-
I moV;n ofgarriTotis whtch Belong to a foreign
r I power from our territory, we may expe£l no
p ace ; fcnd we (hall certainly imd'eFthe ne-
I «effity oi uf]ng roercive measures ultimately, i f
J they »re not now surrendered.
| ■ ,4 We fincerel) hope our government will no
j j long> 1 fuffer with impunity, a nation that pre
\ I tends to be at pence with us, to occupy our
I J forts; t hro't he meansof which they not only
diftrr r < our trade, bnt make the mercilel's fav?-
I g<s.n fhumental in bu»chering our defrneelefs
1 | inhabitants.
[The t<wo following Articles were omitted
ytjierd'dy fob it)ant of rocht'.l['
From the G-eneralAdvertifet.
C
FROM A CORRESPONDENT.
'
How are the people of the Unite/!
States indebted to the mcmbes from
MalfacbftuV'for his panegyric uppg tjlenj; *
for if the people that he reprcferrts poffeis
the fame feritiments with himfelf, every
man eoritrafted with tl|em mpft' feel him
felf .highly flattered by the comparjfon.
If to consider a representative as om
nfcient omnipotent and immaculate confli
tutes an excellence in their creed, the peor
pie to the southward will not vie with them
in this excellence. If to consider the go
vernment. .as one thing, and the people is
an inferior and another jjiing is one of the
praifewevthy attributes in their chara&er,
it l's tote hoped the citizens of the oth»r
states will snot attempt to rival them in
such virtue. If to consider a public debt
as A public blelling, and that every consi
deration of libcrtyy.honor, and public good
should yield to,it, be among the eminent
qualities which distinguish them, certainly
the citizens of other states would Hot offer
such thefhrine of gammon as
to aftempt to eqlipfe them. <
jf to consider ,Bfitiftt jyftem? as objefis
,' of imitation, and British meaiilres as ob
jects of piaife are charadlerifticks ofrepub
' "licanifm, none but a MaffacbufsUeßfis, in
America will seek such a price for farofr.
f .But for tjie,hoi]or.Qf Maffaehufetts, nay
for tne honor of the United States it can
not be presumed that such rtprefentatives
speak their sentiments j indeed tVeir own
declaration, nay their own commit evidefi
_ ccs jshe contraiy ; for no man who'affects
ta'treat the opinions.of hie condiments
with contempt; can pofiibly fpejk their
.fentirtienU, or eo>ifult theiifeelings or their
j interests.
This solemn representative, whorfuppofes
■^tlvathe has picmopolized all the wifdopi
and all the virtiae Africa'to himfelf,
and some of his cbjjta.gy.es, will remember
thata fool will fometitnesdeteft a wife man,
and . that .ihe'/pfly of the Americans ih'll
discover in'him an arrogance, and a Refla
tion of wifdorn, which charaaerife impo
tence rather than genuine ability.
From a Corn/pendent.
.The impudence of certain
in'Mr; Baclie's paper, is nof as furpri!ing' as
'tWe'JgrioV'aftcfthey difrover. That they ihould
! -Hav4' ftftfetralty eriijugh' to, draw falfe'conclu
• fioos, .amil reader thtfrii at Waft pUZKfihg'is
v.not.furpfizinjf— bitt that they fhtfuld venture
f ;thg .difgrace.tta attends a grofe ntifrepre
-sjyjMjt iftfaid ii> Congcefs, difphys
.a! ft. pen i rarely "met with. The
' mem6er'fi-om~ Maflaciiyfptts did rjot hold up
as'the rrioc!el-^-rip v the repiib
'Ticamfin bfrhatftafe as the'model of repub
lican Jfm. Ht clrew a bea'iitrful p^ilrirf'l6f
CvnneUiait, which every observer Wh6 knows
( that perceived the juftiee of—rHe 1 nji
„ther Ijeld jjiimfelf or his colleagues up as
..of'any fort of ex£elteiice'—l)Ut
~ "tflnhf 'the" dc'icacv of the jV>°nber -s itheld
afiy filch fjiftaVk's," others whoTpurn at the
- ftil&igs ot" eiiVf iSSr ast liberty to lay that
J thpfe that- member, will
I Dtvu"talents excite-the admi-
whicti has. ufaiforjnly followed -the
lpeeche's of the membe# from Jfef&chufetts.
Citizen .Mingpu.rit late Cooful .of the
. Frfench Republic at.Charleston, was ad
, &jjfjjad • by, $he democratic Society of
that ...City, in terms exprsffive .of tbfjr
. friendship and eftepm, on the jarrival of
; His successor.
' ' ' , Gen. Jdv*
For e i gri > Jntell ige nc c.
: COMMUNE OF PARIS.
P lQVentofe, Mnrirff 9.'
The Commandant-General stated, that
he'had:this day invested the Pakce of, E
qnality (Palais Royal) wit"h 1206 men,
arid apprehended 130 mufcadins. On his
arrival the shop-keepers wanted to fl.nt'up
9 tbeir shops, which he forbade. On 'his
i:Icpartcre, lie aifced tbem if they had L ft
nothing?/They aniwered—NutJang; at.u
all was now quiet.
/ Chaumette fajd, {here waS plenty of
game, poultry, and bacon in the Palace
of Equality, which the council ordered
to be carried to the public markets.
GENERAL ORDERS.
»THE armed force (hall watch careful
ly all those who excite to pillage the egg
and butter carts as they come to market.
It is hoped that national justice will pun
. ifh thole who stir tip anarchy and the dif
fulution of society. For a month past,
strange faces have appeared in Paris. It
is the duty as gopd citizens to kerfp a vi
gilan: eye on this new breed. I invite my
Others in arms to live in union and fra
ternity, to serve the public weal, and to
defend our common country again It those
who with to be mafteri of it, tn order to
deliver it to new oppreflors.
HENRIOT, Cornmandart-General.
LONDCiN, March 19.
According to the report of Barrere to
the Convention on the 6(h, and of Amar
on the 9th inflant, some unej.finefs had
pervaded the minds of the peopje, with
' fefpect to provisions, which did not arrive
in ftifficient plenty.—T his fcarCTty having
been attributed to the manoeuvres of difaf
fedted persons, flident in the,palace, sot
. merly called the Palais Royal. Hcnriot,
accompanied by the armed forqe of the
different fe&ionS, went thither in the as
* ternoon of the loth, and blocked up all
the avenues, and made a general search.
The number of dilaffe&ed persons found
there, is said to be above one hundred.
The search not being concluded in the
evening, the citizens of course remained
. under arms, and the avenues of the Palais
were ttill blocked. It such an event de
. fei ve the name of an infnrre6tion, such
infuiTeftions have often taken place with
• out producing any important eifefts. The
Paiais Royal has always been supposed to
be the resort of difaffe<Sed persons, and it
is generally searched once every two
months.
The people of Paris appear to be by no
means disposed to an infurreftion. He
hert, popular as he is, has been foiled in
his endeavors to produce one against Ca
miile Del'moulins, Fabre d' Eglantine,
and other deputies: and'when an address
was publifhea by the adininiftrators of the
police, on the 6th inftaut, requiring the
people to rally rouffd Hie Convention, the
popular societies of fedtion unani
tnoufly relolved to obey the requisition.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
16 Ventofe, March 6.
Bafrere rendered an account of the in
famous manoeuvres of conspirators. In
Paris, fays he, tnanulcript papers are cir
culated in the markets, and they haye the
audacity to recommend the choice of a
chief. At Havre we have discovered the
means employed by the merchants and
bankers to debase the National Represent
ation, and depreciate affignats. We know
the fnurces of the fictitious scarcity which
is felt. The guilty are arretted, and are
now on their way to the Revolutionary
Tribunal. At Lille, Maubeuge, andLan
diecis, the cu.prits in correspondence with
the 'ci-devant nobles, with Pitt and with
Cobourg, have likewise been taken up.
In vain does Pitt try to fain ifh us—let us
watch over our generals, and purify the
ltatf. The people will have a Republic
and Democracy ; let them triumph, and
by one general movement crush their ene
mies.—Barrere observed, that the report
on Chabot and others now in prifou, should
be made without loss of time ; and he
proposed the following decree :
1 ie National Convention, after having
hearc. the report of its committee of pub
lie fafety, decrees :
The public accuser of the revolutionary
tribunal is charged with taking immediate
measures against those who are circulating
manuscript pamphlets about the .markets
and streets, which are deftrudive of the
liberties and peace of good citizens, and
the national representation.
' IC r ' u£ hors of these Conspiracies, as
well as those who breathe distrust among
the people who bring provisions to Paris,
lha I be instantly prosecuted.
A report (hall be made in three days,
o. tli j mcafnrcs adopted.
committer of public fafety fliall
iteiv m r.( a report on the means
eii'ug the hands of government,
iving the people from the in
compirators.
t PROCLAMATION,
i 0; Feritaii, General iu Chief Qf the At
my of the Weft." elated Nantes, 2
F Htrfyiofe. > , «
; " Citizens, the time of deceiving is part
I I promiied you the* naked truth ; and i
is as follows :
" The march of the columns orderei
f " to travcifc the Vendee cQuntry has beei
the means of dellioying 6000 rebels whi
were fcaUered about, the re-taking of 1
very important polt in the interior of th
country, and the capture of an immenf
quantity of baggage. The banditti, whi
ha 4 tfie audacity to enter Chollet, b
ftriking terror into the garrison, hare bi
the dust. 1 hey have been flam by a divi
fion detached from the army of the north
commanded by general Cordelier, whorl
I sent inpurfuitof them.
" Another divilion, under General Du
quefnoyj has put to flight the main bod)
of Charette's army, in the thicket, anc
killed Bor 900 of them. On the 26th
Pliiviofe, General Cordelier put 15 01
1600 banditti to the bayonet near Beau,
prean, which has very* much weaked La
Roche Jaquelin's army. Three hundred
of the rebels have just been shot in the so
rest of Pince; and many other advanta
ges have been gained by General Haxo.
" The trifling ill fucceffcs we have expe
rienced and which have been so much exag
gerated,' do not deserve notice. There are
flill some numerous parties in the Vendee,
who are so much more dangerous, as they
alone occupy the right banks of the Loire.
My predeceflors has allowed them too long
a time to repose. We mtrft yet make very
strong efforts to terminate this war; but if
the i'oldiers will only fight courageously, and
the principal officers fe<;ond my orders; if all
the conilituted authorities will join me, and
I if the Patriots are not milled. I swear that
all shall be well."
March 7.
In consequence of some fditious move
ments which have lately appeared in this
capital, the administration of Police have is
sued the following
PROCLAMATION:
" Citizens i Some new plots are at
work. The enemies of Liberty are eve
ry where uniting. Wicked men do not
content themselves alone to monopolize
and create a fictitious scarcity, but they
attempt to take advantage of their crimes,
by exciting the people to infurreftion.
Anonimous letters ai-e in general circula
tion, in which it is recommended to dis
arm the citizens to dissolve the Conven
tion and the Constituted Authorities, and
to demand a Chief. Judge what must be
the tendency of such writings and expref
(ions ?
" Citizens ! It is time for you to rally,
with more strength than ever, around the
Convention—give confidence to your Ma
gistrates j let every man watch, and soon
will your enemies be forced to hide them
selves in their lurking places!"
(Signed)
The Admimjlration of Police.
Several Sections have, by proclamation,
invited all the Citizens to carry to their
refpeftivc committees the different copper
utensils that they do not use, in order
that cannon may be made of them.
No person who held a pcnfion under
the ancient government is to have a cer
tificate of civifm hereafter, unless he can
.prove that he has done some good ast in
favor of the Revolution.
The fame scarcity of meat still conti
nues. A capon has been fold for 4.7 livres,
at the palace of Egah'te, and a calf's
pluck for 20 livres.
From Toulon we learn that the Le He
reux and Bonnet Rogeu are at sea. The
Sans Culotte, the Genereux and Langue.
doc, three more (hips of the line, are fit
ting out; and a great number of other
lhips of war are upon repair there. A
great number of transports are also fitting
out there; hut it is not known whether
they are destined for Corsica or Genoa.
At Brest, the fleet had a signal to be
ready to fail on'the 23d nit. and a convoy
of upwards of 100 velTels arrived there
without any accident, from Bourdeaux. '
BRITISH HOUSE OF COMMONS,
March 17.
LA F A T E TT £.
C™ A <- Fi "p' t,ick •»'<* that the motion
V-» whi<h he had m propofo 10 ihr Houle for
i' co, "Me»atio» might possibly call for an a
pology d,d not the extraordinary circumftan
ctsot the.timrs call for cxiaaordmary procec
; hut he truftod, (twu it he could convince
ornnnTf' " ,eafure w h.ch he should
propole for their adoption, wa» not merely a
fir. sure ol humanity, br.t also of wisdom and
policy, they would h*ve no hefiution in con
curring with him. What had died him for
ward }>atticul»i| y with the prefcm motion was
.1 long friendfliip w ; ih one of the unfortunate
r _ objects of it, Monficur La Fayette, a friendfhip
q - which he has never yet had any reason to- re
s bent having formed, This unfortunate gentle
man, with three others, were kept tn close con
finement by the king of fruffia, and to endea
t vourJto[procure their release,' was the objefl of
the present motipn. There wis one fail with
which the generality oT the gentlemen in that
d House were not acquainted, which was that
n when the king of Pruflia had been applied to lor
the release of these gentlemen, he had answered,
that they were not his pnfoners alone, but the
® prisoners of the Confederated Powers, without
e whnfe consent he could not release them. Upon
this head we had the declaration of a right hon.
gentleman, (Mr. Pitt) as a member of the Privy
council, but this was not quite fufficient ; he
y wilhed for something more lor the public fatis
[t faction. In order to shew the good policy of
endeavoring to piocure the liberation of Mon
sieur La Fayette he must trespass on the pa ience
' of the House, while he related the tenor of that
n gentleman's condufk from the commencement
of the French Revolution to the day of his con.
finement, in which it would clearly appear, that
he had never departed from the 'straight line of
f honour and virtue. To the particular obferva
-1 tion of his condnfl he hao been led by that
! friendfliip which had so long subsisted between ,
r them, and which had induced him to watch it
with an anxious eye. Any pcifon who had
considered the affairs of France, must fee there '
1 were four clafTes of men in that country ; the (
[ fit-ft grand division was into Royalists and St. ,
Publicans, the Royalists were again Tub-divided ,
'"to those who were advocates for the ancient
despotism. and those who were the advocaies of 1
a limited monarchy ; the Republicans again ]
were divided into those who wiflied for a po- j
pular form of government by » representative
a (Terribly, and those who profefTitig democratic ]
principles, had established the present tyranny J
which exists in that country. No man would v
hesitate to declare which of these governments
(hould be preferred, that no member of that '
house would hefirate to declare his abhorrence
of a despotism of whatever kind, whether ol an
individual or body of men ; and to give praise
to a limited monarchy, under which we had
enjoyed To many and continued bleflings; from
the conduct of La Fayette it was brft to be seen
which of these parties he espoused. MonTieur
LaFayeite, he eoolcfled, had been greatly in
strumental in bringing about the revolution of
trance, and he believed that there were v-rv
few in this country, who did not approve o> it
in the fiift stage ; beyond a doubt they had in
view the government and couftitution of thi,
country, when they formed theirs anew, but
from a vain hope of excelling that which' had
flood the test of time, and procured general
happmefs to those who liven under ii, they
went too far, and laid in the foundation ot their
constitution the feeds of its difTolution. He Ha
ted that the mafTacres of the sth and 6ih Ofto
1-erhad been objected against La Favette *-s a
crime ; what had been his condu£l ? he was at
that time commander of the National Guards;
he did every thing in the powerof man, to pre
vent the horrid scene which took place ; he had
been up sixty houri, fifteen of which he had
been on horseback , nature, worn out with fa
tigue, required foroe repose ; he ventured to lie
down for an hour, in the mterim th« tumult re
commenced, atiti the mifchief was done. It
has been alledged by his eiumies, thsi he reti
red to give an opportunity for the cotnmifTton
of.their Violence, bui this he denied could be
the oafe. What had been his conduct when the
Jacobin Club had attempted to get an al'cenden
cy ovrr the Nanonal Affcmbly, and had aflu
ally proceeded to violence at the Champ Jt Mars ?
h«' repreffi-d the rjotersat the he?d ot ihe Guards.
After this when he found that the Jacobin par
ty was getting fact into power, and that many
of the Guards were favorable to that Taflion he
resigned his command ; but he afterwards re'-af-
Ttirr-eH .t, at the express felicitation of all the well
dtlp l: d peopu <.t l arrs, md ol the Royal Fa
mily themfe.'ves.
It had been obje&ed again ft him alfo>
that he sent an officer after the Jtirtg and
Queen, when they attempted to., make
their escape. This he was by his fitutrti
°n in a manner compelled to do ; but his
subsequent conduit showed how much he
was the friend of Lewis, for when after
his capture, it was proposed to try -him
and bring him to execution, he boldly de
clared in the aflembly, that if the)- took
such a step, that at the head of the Nati
onal Guard he would the next day pro
claim Louis the XVII. this bold :yid
firm declaration, for that time put a flop
to their proceedings. The Jacobin part y
had done every thing in their power to
render this man friendly to their dtligns,
but in vain._ The last public ast of which
he took notice, was his conduct previous
to the loth of August. The King,
when he found his power almost reduced
to nothing, and that all was in the most
dangerous and critical fituatiop, dispatch
ed on the sth of August, a to
i-.a r ayette, who was then at the head of
the army, as to the only friend upon
whom he could rely, and as his last re
lource. The mefTenger did not roach the
camp till the Bth, which was too late,
for on the 10th the kingly power w^ s
completely annihilated. Commissioners
trom the Convention came to La FavcU
offering him any terms, and every honor
which might flatter his ambition, if he
would loin their party, but he refuted.
Uut what was his conduct ? he refoked to
yn° longer at the head of the at my,
nor would ne lead them against his coun!
try. but nevertheless he thought it his
duty to place it in a state of security,
' ; X
which he fcffe&aally did ; insomuch that
gfcner»l GLirfait, thinking the momemdf
retreat would be a good time to attadt
the enemy, foiind them so advantageously
ported, that he thought it best to defifh
If he had delivered up the commiflioners
to the enemies off his Country, or surren
dered his army, his virtues might have
been the fubjedt of a manifefto, or if he
had carried off the money chest of the
army he might have found an asylum;
but having discharged the duty of a good
eitizen and friend to his country, his re
ward has been a dnngeon. ,Hc next ad
verted to the placc where he was ma<}e
prisoner, in a neutral country, the Bift
oprick of Liege: under what circuri
ftances ? Why under a promise from the
Auitrian garrison, to whom he credulously
traded, of protection and support, he
was, however, with those officers to the
amount of forty, who accompanied him
made prisoners, from thence they were
conduced to a port where the Prussians
were then in power, who claimed La Fa
yettee and his companions as the prisoners
of the king their master. These gentle
men were not taken as prifoiiers of war,
but prisoners of state, for all were difmifled
except La Fayette, and three others who
had been members of the constituent As
sembly, and were now actually confined
under the denomination of state prisoners.
He lamented the cruelty with which those
unfortunate men were treattd, confined
in subterraneous dungeons, denied the
pleasure of mutual intercoUrfc ; and till
lately, when they have been, as an extra
ordinary favour, permitted undtJr the fs
vereft reftridtions, to breathe the
for about an hour each day ; refufed to fee
the light of heaven ; and the only crime
these gentlemen had committed, was be
ing the friends of that constitution, we
fay we wish to restore.—He observed,
I that we were bound to use our power to
liberate those men by the declaration of
his Majesty to the people of France, in
which he promises prote&ion to the friends
of the constitution of 1789; and those
men had (hewed,themfelves its mod stre
nuous supporters ; for they had ventured
their fortunes, their lives, and have loft
their liberty for the cause. He contend- ■
' ed that the people of Fiance could noi
poflibly have any reliance upon the pro
! mifes of this country, when they fee the
very great advocates of the conftitiuion
incarcerated and treated in the molt creel
manner by our allies, without any inter
ference whatever on our part. He said,
that our violence had drawn from the cause
of royalty, many of its best friends and
most able supporters, and drove them to
defend the cause of Republican ism. He
was certain the best mode for this country
to (hew the excellence of its constitution
and the attachment of Englifhmen'to the
cpiife of true freedom, wherever it might
exist, would be to interpose in behalf of
those unfortunate men, and convince
mankind in genera!, of the great blefllng
of an humane and benevolent prince.
The best way to convince the atheists
of France of the superiority of Religion,
would be by shewing them the practical
exercise of one of its chiefeft virtues—
Charity to the opprefled. There was one
thing upon which he had not yet touched,
which was the conchidl of General La
Fayette during the war with America,
but 'his he did not think could ooerate
agai.ifl him in the mind of any liberal
man ; there might be found for him a
good apology, he was at the time of en
tering a volunteer in the America* army,
but nineteen, the fabjeft of a kingdom
where military fame was so much prized,
his conduct winked at, if not approved
and encouraged by his mafttr; he was
oertain that if any proposition could have
been made for preserving the iife of that
unfortunate King, no man would have
the cruelty to have objedted to him, Irs
conduit during t'He American war. He
then recapitulated the several arguments
he had used, and concluded bv moving—
" That an humble addfefs be presented
to his Maieftv, representing that the de
tention of Mr, La Fayette, &c. was an
act of great cruelty and injustice; that
their liberation would tend much to the
advancement of the common car.fe ; and
that his Majesty would he pleased to take
1 such wife steps ns Ik- in his Roval Wis
dom might deem fit, to procure their en
largement."
Colonel Tarleton the motiVn.
In doing so, he profefled to decline wa
tering' into she general c'iiri'mftances o
French affairs ; of the c;vf s which led
to the variuu* scenes which took place ia
" % V 'i thit unfortunate country, or of the ef
fects which followed them. Hi Ihould
forbear to enter into a minute inveitiga
* tion of that infamous combination of ty
rants, the treaty of Pilnitz, which, at a
time when France was about to ellablilh
and enjoy fomethfng like a temperate and
rational freedom, in exchange for their
former tyranny, roused by its unjuftifiable
aggreflions, the free spirit of cntlutiiafm,
into the rage of madness, and gave rile
to all those scenes of horror which have
since desolated the half of Europe. At
this period, General Fayette found him
f~tf at the head f>f the arms of France,
by the unanimous voice of his country,
for the purpose of repelling those inva
ders. To prove the General's sentiments
at this period, he read an extract of a
letter written by him from the entrench
ed camp of Maubeuge, upon the occa
sion of debates upon the degree of power
to be entrusted to the king. In this iet
te: he Hated that he was for preserving
the Monarchy, ftrfttly hereditary as here
tofore ; that the King (hould be at liber
ty to ehufe .his Mini iters, and not have
the creatures of a faction forced upon
hjn againfl his will. These -he Rated to
be his sentiments, which he found it ne
ceftary at that time to declare, lett the
uncertain events of the war (hould here
after put it out of his power so to do.
This letter excited againit him in Par's
the resentment of the Jacobins, who now
firft began to rear their head, and produ
ced an accusation of Fayette before the
.AffetnMv. Upon this oceafion, what
did that' General do ? Indead of march
ing to Paris at the head of the army,
which attached to him as they were at
that period, he might hrive easily done,
and Blade every thing subservient te his
will; he set ofj and preferited himfeif al
naoik unattended before the Convention.
He there so well defended hitnfelf against
his accusers, as to call forth their unani
mous acquittal and approbation,find thus
1 for while truth obtained a triumph over
„ villainy and treachery. But this was of
short duration. Upon his return to the
army, he quickly found his enemies had
not been idle, but taking advantage of
his abfeuce, had corrupted the troops, and
poiioned their minds against the man
whom so lately they adored. In or
der to regain their good opinion,he pub
lilhed an addrefe, in which he tlill mora ex-
pfe'sfcly explained his fermments,''calling
upon them, 'in his own emphatic t cubs',
" To ehufe between their King and Pe
tion." Thisalfo failing, he resolved up
on the o;(ly step left an honest man to
ehufe. Instead of abandoning his princi
ples, and taking advantage of the litua
tron lie held, he resolved to facrifice every
thing to the prefei vation of them and to
fly his country, which he coult} no long
er serve, as those- principles didlated.—
This refolutiort, after communicating to
a few friends, he accordingly put in exe
cution, accompanied by them.
He palled all the French out pofts,and was
011 his way tor Holland, whence he purposed
taking reihge in America, that hit alylum
tor liberty, when he was intercepted by an
Auftrun patrole. He was at firft treated with
some ihare of lenity, but afterwerds was
treated with all the ignominy and cruelty
described by his Hon. Friend. Upon this
x detail he conceived the ii juitice and cruelty
with which he was treated must be apparent
to ail; and he hoped, that at a time when
we were treating with Pruifia, poiTibly tor
tne purpose of parting with our trealure, that
we would interfere, and endeavour to refcus
him from those horrors with which he is un
meritedly loaded. He could,from his person
al knowledge of the unfortunate General du
ring his reliJence at Paps, fay much of his
virtues, his integrity, his attachment to the
cauie of true and temperate liberty, and his
admiration of this country; but he too well
knew the generous sympathy of British Bo
soms towards unmerited fufferings, to urge
the feelings upor, this occaiion ; he therefore
contented hiinfelf with seconding the motion
of his Hon. Friend upon the grounds he had
already ltated.
(To be continued.)
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 8.
Inconfcquence of the proposition adopted
by the tloufe of Representatives in Congress ]
for impoiing an excise on Snuff, Manufar- 1
lured Tobacco, and Refined Sugar ; a noti- ;
Jicatiori is published, calling on the various
tieicriptions of manufacturers in Philadelphia ,
to aiiimfcle this afternoon at 5 o'clock
at the State House, to devise and pursue such
lawful measures, as the nature of the cafe, '
CiaH require.
TheaecoHnt of two persons having 1 ten f
tarred and feathered in "Norfolk, as lately
publ.ibcd, the {jeneral Aiivertiler of ih.s
■liOii.iae lays, is without foundation.
Sunday last the Mercury was up to 87 —
(ast night there Wis a Lveie froii.
A resolution for the ceifition of the em
bargo, from and after the day of May
inlt. was laid on the table of the H u'.e of
Representatives of the United States tne'Jay
before yesterday by Mr. Swift.
By this Day's Mail,
NEW-YORK, May 7.
On Monday afternoon, while the citi
zen! of New-York, were empl.oyed in je
moving an 18 pounder from the dock on
Governor's Island, to the battel}'on.the
oppolite fide, a young man, a Tanner"bv
trade, who was at the drag-rope;, Humbled
and fell, and before he could recover him
felf, one of the wheels of the carriage 011
which the cannon was flung ran oyer him,
which, passing acrols one of his thighs,
broke it iultantly.—He was immediately
taken into a house near by, attended by
two French dodtors who happened to be
then present, and had his woiind drefled ;
after which he was brought to this city,
and other physicians appointed to take
charge of him: There are some hopes
that he will lurvive, notwithllanding his
wound is very bad. The Patriotic will
doubtless contribute to his relief.
A sloop of Mr. Jackson's arrived here
yesterday from Guadaloupe in 23 days,
infor rns that St. Pierres was taken by the
• Bv.tilh forces, after immense daughter on
both fides ; they then proceeded, for Baf
fcterre, which we fear, mull inevitably
fhaie .the fame Fate. The mate of the
above sloop came off in fitch hade, as to
leave the captain behind.
By the brig from St. Euftatia, we hear
that it was currently reported there, and
believed, that St. Lucie had likewise been
captured ; and that the Britifli had put
the garrison to the sword —Several cap
tains and mates of veflels, which had been
prisoners in Martinico during the whole
siege, came pallengers in the above brig.
At a late civic feiSt in Philadelphia, among
other democratic toafbj was the following:
" May every fl-ee nation consider a pub
lic debt as a public curse, and may the mail
who would aflert the eoivrary opinion, be
considered as an enemy to his countrv."
TVis is speaking very plain ! If the debt
is a ciirji, if follows thst it ought to be ex
ptmghl! The debt is the price of our Inde
pendence ; is our Independence a curse ?
Artiw.r this quellion, ye Jacobiris: Then
anl'.ver another. If a public debt is a public
curse, why do you openly and violently urge
for a war, that mull inevitably augment,
probably double that debt ? Answer this
qurftion or blulh for your coriiradii!torn.
' BALTIMORE, May 5.
■On Sunday afternoon arrived jn this port
from ) .or, don, the Ihio Remiblican, Capt.
Gardner, m whom came paiTer.gers, Mr. &
Mrs. Chalk, Mr. and Mrs. Edwards, Mrs.
Beverly, Melfrs. Robert Field, Wm. Ed
wards, John Hahn and Sop, Richard Hay
man, Joseph Carnall, and James Wilks.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
PARIS, March 9.
On the 7th infiant, the Council General
of the Commons issued the following
ORDER.
Th? Council General of the Commons, I
coufidcring the neceltky there is for providing
with meat women who are with child, in la
bour, the nurl'es, and the sick, of both sexes,
decrees—
ill. There lhall be; distributed daily to all
the fe&ions of Paris, proportionate to their
population, beef, veal and mutton.
id. There lhall be killed an Ox, two calves,
and a (heep, in addition, for the sick in the
houses of arrest.
.•d. The meat lhall be delivered under the
fupi rintendence of civil committees, who
(haii deliver it only after having the cafe pro
perly attelled by the officers of health.
.ah. The administration of fubliften.ee is
cha ged to oversee the mode of killing, the
diluibution, and the sale of meat.
In the fame fitting, a citizen complained,
thai coramiffiuners had paid him.a visit, and
intimidated him with punilliment beeaufe he
hail not sown his garden with potatoes in
stead of peas and lettuces.
Chaumette laid, that he was sorry to hear
the orders of the council had been so much
perverted—which were only intended to al
low the civil mapiftrates to make revolution*
ary visits, but not to destroy.
The Jacobin and Cordelier' Clubs, are
now in the moil stria alliance. On the
7th, Collet d'Herbois was deputed from
th ■ Jacobins to the latter club, and was I
received with acclamation. He said, that
:n future Jacobins and Cordeliers (hould
fight under the lame bangers-r-upityd in
■ j heart and in principle- He observed on
; | tiie general cry about Paris of an ini'ur
j Vectioo, and laid'—
J " But untjer what rircumftances Ho
II fly-y talk of an infurredtioii ! *a nio
inciit, wUq Pitt and Cobourg, hovering
like birds of prey to devour France,.are
appjes of ditcord among good
citizens, whom they are arming one against
■ Jnother ; at a moment, when leports are
tpread abroad, that the Jacobins and Cor-
J.'liers are about to fight a deadly combat
with each other; at a moment, when Pitt,
with the trumpet of, a Daniel, is prophe
sy.ing.an in furred* ion in France ; at a mo
ment, when Kings, foaming on their
thrones, are indignant at not having over
• urned the collpffus which threatens them !
Ah ! brethren and friends, instead of
talking of infurreftion, let your wants be
made known to the fathers of the people,
and they shall be relieved !"
Hebert mounted the triburie, and loud
; ly exclaimed against. the enemies of Liber
ty-, who Itrive to spread abroad that there
cxifts a difference between the Cordeliers
and the Jacobins. Pie denounced to the
patriots the paper of public fafety, which
mutilates and totally changes the sense
or what passes at the Cordeliers, with
counter-revolutionary intentions.
The President, in token of union, gave
the fraternal kiss to the Jacobins deputed
to the Cordeliers ; and the society resol
ve.l that it would on the morrow fend a
deputation to the Jacobins.
The General of Division du D rut, Com
ma idant at Douay, has written to' the
Cc mmittee of Public Safety, as follows :
" To combat our. enemies, we mud
have arms—and to pursue, we must have
:—We want both."
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Sitting of Mcfrch 8.
The Representatives of the People,
Bernard wrote from Dijon,—
" That beiug informed, that the Arif
tocratsof Dijon continued to dignify each
other with the titles of Baron, Count,
and Marquis, he charged a judge to make
information, from which it results, that
not only these prescribed qualifications
were revived, but also that some of these
enerniesof the Revolution uttered the most
atrocious calumnies against the National
Convention, and Conflituted Authorities.
I ha ve ordered, fays he, seventeen of the
molt culpable to be delivered up to the
Revolutionary Tribunal. I prgmife to
fend the fame way all who may deserve it."
Referred to the Committee of general
Safety.
The female Citizen Dominiqe Soulier,
announced, that she pofTefTed a secret to
make fait petre, of plants which abound
ed in the fields, and are not eaten by the
cattle—Referred to the Committee of
General fafety.
Fbr the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
In some places it seems to be thought a
duty to make news to help the French kill
their enemies. Norfolk has greatly distin
guished itfelf in the way of nice work, and
the Brussels Gazette has displayed it to great
advantage, but the reader who may be ter
med in the Congress phrafe,the consumer of
the goods, has a hard time of it if he is obli
ged to believe as well as read it. Yet seve
ral paragraph ills seem to be very angry be
ckufe the detected attempts to deceive the
public have met with some grave rebuke and
more ridicule. The want' of faith in the
wonderful news that is so important and
weighty or so brittle and precious that it
could not be trusted to the express, is called
want of gQod disposition towards our good
ally ; tbe slowness of our belief is a Jirata
gem to alienate our (ijj't'ilions from France.
The believers who chide us in the Bruflels
Gazette, think we can gulp down a whale as
easily at they can. Now fir, Ido really wilh
France the blessings of liberty. My heart
does not reproach me with the secret fin of en
mity to liberty in that country or in this, or
indeed in any other. To be lure I would
not own it, if I harbored such enmity, but I
would try to repent and grow better. But
what am I to do to enlarge my swallow of
faith ! the stories in the Brussels Gazette stick
i n my throat, and would absolutely choak me,
if* were to perfilt in forcing them down.
I am advised by one of the club that upholds
that Gazette to follow their example and I
shall overcome all my difficulties, for that
peffons who can tell great stories can believe
them Byexercifing my invention, I (hall
ftren jthen my faith. Full of this notion, I
had 1. solved to prepare a batch of pretty sto
ries for publication in the BrufTels Gazette ;
and after having cudgelled my brains for
some time, I offered the fruits of my fludy to
the editor ; to my great surprize however,
he rejected them, laying that he had on hand
Snort marvellous events, alarming hints and
' l , ' f ,'*+.• ; *
ft conje&iuyj, paragraphs of the contents
r- Cret dil'patches &c. than he could market'in
a year. In a word be was so overstocked
p with fable, that he rtioiild be obliged to bum
one half of what he had on hand, as the
I Dutch are said to burn their spices to prevent
g * tall of price by tRe glut. He had he said
c already iuffered by going too far, forthepuh
d lie would not believe the whole of any intel
t ligence at preient, unless it was more than a
e quarter part true. Formerly a dash of truth
would do—jullenough to fwearby. Witness
' the late National Gazette dec<;afed, of glori
ous memory. '
i If one wJi net, another will said I, Ncr.v
Mr. Fenno, 1 offer you my lervices. Your
paper seems to be very bare and lean in the
r department ot wonders, i will fiirnifli you on
reasonable term? with home made foreign
I news) or I will take the foreign made, as the
' raw material, and work it up my own way.
I will play the,devil with our trade, wore
- than all the privateers. I warrant you, I
, will help the trade in tar and feathers. The
officers of our government foul be blacker
than the Tar ; I will not spare one of them,
„ not °ne fir, that is sworth hunting* I would
, not Jhoot a blue jay while the .Eagle is to be
' come at, so let the Frefideht take care of
1 himfelf. I will make toasts before or after a
feaft, lor publication : I will draw up plans
i of demoniac clubs, resolutions and aridreffes
. for such clubs. Let me have only one co
i ' umn in V 5""" gazette, and I will raifc more
fulpicions against the Congress men, than all
the other columns shall be -able to countera#.
■ I will .use no colour but lampblack, and paint
I nothing but devils :my pen (hall be against
■ the government,' and your 25,000 feleft corps
for it,and I engage to beat them. Take me
into your pay Mr. Fenno, and we will be
the combined powers against American liber
ty. But if liberty will be reasonable, I mean
generous, and pay better than you will, I
will engage to support hercaufe: for as I said
before, I harbour no enmity against her. If
you incline to treat with me, l am willing to
fend you some specimens of my ingenuity ; I
will fliew for instance, that a monarchy is 'to
be kept up in America with a paper nobility
and a negro commonalty, I will prove that
the Constitution .will not allow vou to adopt
any good nienfures. I will shew how debts
public and private may be paid without pay
ing. Do but name your fubje& and I will
<hew you what the witch of Endor could not.
How a good conscience shall torment a man
by exposing him tp persecution: and when I
conjure up spirits pall'd in the dunneft {moke
°f a kitchen without a chimney., to pre
side at clubs, they lhall seem angels of light.
ASMODEUS.
From ■on English Paper.
THE GENERALS.
First General Brunswick made a fad cam
paign—
Then General Coeourq took the field in
vain !
Next, General Wurmser bid the troops
advance,
And General York declar'd he'd conquer
' France:
All the vain efforts of these Generals past—
We reft our Hope Jorlorn —on —General
Fast.
J
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
CLEARED.
Sch'r Favorite, Folger, Freden'ckfburgh
Captain Bunker, in 63 days from Dublin,
informs, that the Ihip General Walhington,
Capt. Geddes, with a number of passengers,
was to fail about the 25th of March ; and the
brig Betsey, Gordon, about the fame time,
both bound to this port.
C/" In the journal of the Seriate of the
United States published yeflerday—after the
motion by Mr. Martin, the words in the
copy " It paired 111 the negative"—<w t re
inadvertently omitted.
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
May 9.
Will be performed,
An OPERA, called
Inkle and Yarico.
With the original Overture and Accompa
niments.
In ast 2d. will be introduced a Charadteriftic
Pantomime Dance, incidental to the piece
composed by Mr. Francis, by Meflrs. Dar
ley, Darley jun. Bliffett, De' Moulin, War
rell, Lee, and Francis.
With new Scenero, Dresses and Decorations.
The Scenery defigued and executed by Mr*
Miloourne.
To which will be added,
A FARCE, called
Lovers QuarrelFs ;
O R,
Like Matter, Like Man.• ~ o
ADVERTISEMENT.
S/ILF.S (it NtWrTORK, b A-L
--BIkECKBR & SOl\S,
, £)n Tlwftfay the 15th May next at Twel*
' o'clock at (he Tontine Coffee Houle,
THE FOLLOWING
"TraSts of Land\ j
111 W»tldns and Flint s purchase, in thecoun- j
ty of "l ints ft-1' ol Nifiiv York. ,
C n irtaiTMng, acres. .1
Southwell quar of Tovnlh p No. 2, 9,424
"N o, th\veft do.' do. 4, 5,647 .
Northealt do. do. 6, 10,525
do. do. 7» V
L JSimtliweft do do. 8, 3.95 3
Noithweft do. do. R, fr, 2 5°
Southeast do". do. a, !
Soutneaft do. do. 1~, 9'°'° .
North«v*ft d«>. do. 10, 10,475
70,521
Thefelands ari rapicflyehcreafing in valur,
large IcttlementS are already made in feveial
of 1 lie townihip". > the of foil, and
the advantages in point of situation being so'
well known; render any further description
unre'ceiTary. A 111 pof the tracts and condi
tions of sale may he feeiv at No. io, Queen
t il.eet, f?e\v Yolk.
Apr.il 10. tutli&rtHM
A New Novel.
To the LADIES of Philadelphia.
This D-iy is Publ'Jbfd by
MATHEW CAREY,
iiß, Market flreet,
Pricc, bound, fi«e eighths of a dollar, sewed
in 41 arble paper, hall a dollar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
IN TWO VOLUMES.
By M' S- ROW SON, of the New The tre,
"rMa<?elpiiia, Author of Victoria, the In
rlk FiJle de Chambre, &C;
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given
the following char after,
IT Ttnv t e a Tale oi* Truth, for it is not
unnatural, affult U a talc of real (Jiltrefs.—
fharlutre, by the afpfice of a teachei, recom
mended to a fcho'ol, jfrntn hnmanity rather
than a tdnvjftiun of her integrity, or the re
gutfmty of hsr former conduct, is enticed
iiom her goverrcfv and accompanies a young
l >fficbr to Ameuca.—The marriage cereino*
hy, if not forgotten, pcftlponed, and Char
lotte .die* a,martyr to the inconstancy of her
ovtr, and treachery ot his friend —The frtu- I
tions are artiefs and.affj&ing—the delcrip-1
a tions natural and pathetic; we fliould fee
for Cha'ljtre if fiich a peribn ever exiftefl,
whJ fpr one er or fc'arcely', perhaps, deserved
io a pflniftiment. If it is a fi<sHon,
poetic j liftjce is not, we think, properly d:f
tributed I
Said Carry his jujl pMijked, \
A- 2 Ihcet map of Kentucky
compiled by'Biiftu Baikfir; [iriee Ore dollar
and two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Germany, Spa n,ltah»the United Provinces,
the Netherlands, and the Weft Indies. Price
Iwo. dollars.
■Map of New Jerlev —Half a dollar.
Map .of Connetticut,Delaware,
Georgia Price three eighths of a "dollar
eafh. . :.fl£s
April 29. "'hk tbtli&sjw
~ —NTO.ii— .J
Second Jlreet, between Market and Clxfnut
Jlj-f'tf> Ebiladflphia..
POYNTELL'S
AMERICAN MANUFACTORY OF
PAPER HANGINGS,
he keeps up a constant stock of
ten thousand pieces far sale, comprising every
variety of colours, in grounds and figures, off
the moll modern artd tasty patterns, for ev.e-j
Ty part of a house. Th 6 perfection attained
in this manufa(story, in peculiar neatness of
workmanftiTjy, durabilfay of colours, variety
in deQgns, and good 1 quality ot the paper, will I
l>e found so exceed any European papers at
the fame moderate prices.
, An elegant variety of rich fancy fe{loon ; &q
narrow borders, and of stucco and otlier co+
loured pannel papers.
** Plain grounds made to a n 7 colour orftiade.
Wholesale orders for any quantify, froni
* the jtouniry or for exportation, executed oil
a Ihort notice, on advantageous terms,
ufwal credit.
• Io addition to the above aflortmenf, he has
a beaut-ful variefy of t ■* •
• French paper hangings
of very superior quality, (Paris manufactory)
with a vari'ety of Piich Borders.
April 25 tuth&ssw
Treasury Department,
Revenue Office, Aptil 19, J 794.
NOTICE is hereby given, that propofaW
will be received the office of t(ie Com in if
fiontr of the Revenue until the sixth of MaJ
nexj inclufivel), for the fuppiy of all Rai
tions, which inaj be required during the curt
rent year, at the city of Philadelphia, foj
the recruiting fcrvice.
The rations to be furnilhed are to consist
of the following aifieles, viz
One pound of bread or flour (
One pound of beef, or 3 4 of Is pnunrj pork
Half a gill of ruin, brandy Q r wliifky
One quart of (a t,
Two Quirts vinegar .
Two pounds ftiap (* 1 ■ rations
One pound candles 3
Apiil t.. mw<Sts2w
The Public are cautioned to
bewa/e of crwUatVitedrive Dollar Bills of
the ijaiik of ibe United States, and Twenty
Dollar ft 'Us, of the, Bank (f North America,
fiverrJ of which jjfi've appealed in circulation
'within a fekv days pafl; they are a good ge
i neral imitation of the genuine Bills y but may
I be dyitngui/hed by the follo wing
MARK S.
Fihje Dollar DHL of the Bank of the
IJnited States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The' Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is smaller
than the M* and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M. would extend con
fiderabJy above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than th? reft of the bill
The i and fin the word promise are not
parallel, the much more forward
than the j.
The engraving is badly executed,the strokes
of all the Letters are stronger and the device
in the margin particularly is much coarser and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
ot the counterfeits bear date in 1791— Where
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
her, and no five dollar bills were iffiied in
ihat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
| to that of the counterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described ; the engraving is better exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance cf the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, are in number thir
teen in the genuine b lis, and but twelve in
tl»e counterfeits.
The wo id Company is much like the fame
word »n the Five Dollar B lis as described a
bove, the 0 being less than the m, and others
following-.
There is no ftrgke to the t in the word North
whereat in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters rnt in the word Twenty, to the
iefrjiawd at the bottom, do not come down to
the iine, but are so cut as to give an irregular
a pearanee to the word, the Tw and tney go
'ing below them.
The signature 1 Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lawib-M»< k and
01, and differs from other inks tifed in
printing the bills and the calhier's (igoafure.
It is supposed these forgeries were committed
in some of the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come Worn
thence, and two persons have been apprehend
ed in Virginia, on suspicion of being the author
of tliem.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Person or Persons who (hall
discover and profccutc to convi&.ion the several
dflfehders oif the following or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufactured
the paper on which Bills are printed.
The person or persons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, «f the bills. '
Every person who has a&ed as a principal in
any other ways in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
Philadelphia, March 28, i/94
April 22, 1754,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical maik is the let
ter B.
They may be diftingnifhed from the genu
ine by the following MARKS :
The paper of the-counterfeits is of a more
tender texture and glofley fnrf&ce than tke
genuine, and there is no water mark in them.
The letter C. in the word Cashier, in the
true bills is ftrorigly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
flroke, evidently in an unfinifhed state. The
letter a in the wodemand, is badly formed
and the whole word ill done, and there is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
The marginal device, is much darker in
the lalfe, than in the genuine bills oWiug to
the fliade strokes being coarser, much nearer
together, and consequently much more nu- !
merous. This difference strikes the eye atfirft
view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will be paid for appiehending, &
prosecuting to convnftf on the several above
described Offenders in tefpelt to' this, as to
the last described bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Prefideot
of the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
peftive Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an.elfgible situation, —alio a Country Seat
within 6 utiles of the City, with 9 acres ef
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
Home is not exceeded byfnany in the vicinity
• 1 of the city, in size, or convenience.
For particular! apply to the printer.
m&tbtf
Lately PublMhed.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, Sooth Second-Street:
The Hiltoryof New-Hamplhire, from ihe
D (covery of the River Pifcataqua—by Je
remiah Belknap, D. T>. 3 Vols, trice in Boards,
4 1-2 Dollars.
The Forrefter, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the Hiflory of John Bull the Clothier.
Prce, 75 Cents.
A Discourse, intended to commemorate the
Discovery of America by Christopher Colum
bus; delivered at the request of the Historical
Society irt Massachusetts, Oftober'23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Thiid Centuiy,
since that memorable event. To which are
added, Four Dfffertations, conneßed with the
fubjeft—By the fame author. Price, 50 Cents.
March 17. tuth&l3W
♦ Ground Plan
I OF THE
City and Suburbs
OF
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM ACTUAL SURVEY.
IT is with pleasure that the publisher has to
inform his fubferibersand the public in gene
ral, that the plate is now under the hands of
the engraver, and in greater forwardnefs than
was at firft contemplated. At the fame time
Ite begs leave to remind them, that fubferip
tion papers are still open at most of the noted
book-stores in the city ; and that he hopes
from the whole of them to be enabled to form
such a refpe&able catalogue of names, as will
do a credit to the work, as well as afford a
reasonable encouragement to the undertake-r
Those who are delirous of further informa.
tion are requeued to call on
Benjamin Davles,
No. 68, Market street.
April 14. m&thtf
ESSENCE
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold by Dr. Lee, Golden-
Square, London.
THE public is offered oiw of the most
efficacious and fafe rftedicines, th:it ever ap
peared, for that most excruciating pain, the
Tooth-Ache—the numerous instances of its
happy effects, in relieving the affli&ed, have
now brought it info universal estimation; it
not only relieves the tooth-ache, but is of the
utmost service in curing the SCURVY in the
Gums, in preventing the disagreeable smell
that is produced from unsound teeth, & will
occasion a sweet-breath; it likewise prevents
the teeth from decaying, and will be found
a general preserver of the Teeth and Gums
Sold in Philadelphia only at
PoyntelCs Stationary Store,
No. 2i, Second street. 1
April 24. tuth&s 3W
Advertisement.
THE relations of Mr Thomas Curtis,for
merly of Ellicoti's Upper Mills, and lately of
the City of Waflyngton, deceafrd, are deftr
ed to apply and have his affairs fettled.
City of Walhington, April 22, 1764.
M. 5 m&th4*v
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Houses or PubFic
Offices,
Two brick 3 story Houses,
HAVING 6 rooms in each, with fireplaces
beside garrets, situate, on the south westerly fide
of Dock street, between Pear and Walnut
streets. Enquire of
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
April 17. tnth&stf
_ JUST PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOBSON,
Hookfeller, at the Stone House in Second Jlreet,
! Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA,
OR A
Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, aud Miscel
laneous Literature,
ON a plan entirely new ; by which the dif
ferent sciences and arts are digested into the
form of diftinft treatises or systems. This
volume contains the aiticlcs, medais, medi
cine, metallurgy, metaphyfjes, methodists,
Mexico, microscope, midwii''ry, and a great
variety ot biographical and mifceliane< us ar
ticles, illustrated with nineteen copperplates
s3T The tables of logarithms, &rc. which
were deficient in the tenth volume, are Aib
joined to this.
Eleven volumes of this wo>k are now pub
liflied, and theXJlth isin tome forwardnefs.
On tbt firft of September, 1792, the price
offubfeription wa&incrcafed TLN dollars on
all setts not taken befoVe that time. The lub
fcription is still open on these terms, and if
any copies remain by the firft of July nexr,rhe
price will be raised TEN dollars more, on
any copies Which may be fttbfcribed for after
that period.
%* As many of the fubferibers have taken
only two, three ot tour, &c. volumes, they are
earnestly requested to take up and pat tor the
remaining volumes, as it become- ri flkult to
complete the setts, and the publiftier does not
hold himfelf botiud to make up anv setts after
the firft day of July next.
( A Pnl 22. 4fiSrtb6w. .
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, cn
Dollars, dedußing 15 per Cent, front
the Prizes—this Lottery conftfls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there ere
14,539 Prizes And 23,461 Blanls,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Direftorsof the Society foreflabiiftimg
Ufeful Manufactures, having refolded i«
ercft LOTTERIES for raising OseHobmid
Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Ast of
the Legislature of the State of New-Jersey, hive
appointed the following persons to iupenotrnd
and direst the drawing of the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rufus King, Herman Lc Roy, James
Watson, Richard Harrifon, Abijah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city of New-York—
Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthew M-Coo
nel and Andrew Bayard, of the city of P(m1»-
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, Efy.
Elias Boudinot, General El as Dayton, Janet
Parker, John Bayard, DoflorLTwis .Domhara,
Samuel W. Stockton, Jolhua M. W'all.ict, Ji.fcph
Bloomfield, and Elifha Boudinot, of Nt w-Jer
fey, who offer the following Scheme <<( a Lat
tery, and pledge themselves to the public, that
they will take e»ery a durance and precaution in
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from time to tjme, as received, into
the Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for the purpofeOf paying Prifci s, which
(hall be immediately difcharge'd by a check.
npon one of the Banks.
SCHEME:
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 20,000
1 IOjOOO *o,cco
2 si°°o 10,000
5 2,000 10,000
10 1,000 10,000
20 . 500 I**,CCO
ico 100 ic,coo
300 50 id'™*?
. 1000 20 £O,OCO
2000 15 30,000
3000 12 36,000
8100 10 81,000
14,539 Prices. 262,000
23,461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Last drawn number, 2,000
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266.000
The drawing will commence, under the sn
fpe&ionof a Committee of the Supermtendants,
as soon as the Tickets are fold,ot which timely »
notice will be given.
The Superinti-ndants have appointed John N.
Cumming, of Newark, Jacob R. H-naenberjr,
of New-Brunfwick., and Jonathan Rh< a, oC
Trenton, 4s immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample secUrity for discharging the
trust reposed in them.
$3* In order to fecurethe pun&ml payment
of the Prizes, the Superintendanis of the Lottery
have dke&ed that the Managers lhalleach c'nier
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four fofficicnt
fecuri'tits, to perform their inftru&ions, the fub
•ftance of which is
I. That whenever eithpr of |he Managers
(hall receive the sum of fhiee hundred Doilais,
he (hall immdiately placc the fame in one of <he
Banks Of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
credit of the Governor of the Society, and fueh
of the Superintendantias live in the city where
the monies are placed, to remain there nnt?lthe
Lottery is drawn, for the paymntof the Prizes.
11. The Managers to take fufficicnc iec«»«ty
for any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
refponfihle for them.
111. To keep regular books 'of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ftra&s of which lhall be sent, monthly, to the
-Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January i y 1794.
On application to either of the abore gentle
men, information willlbe given where tickets
itijv be had.
February 24. tc&ftf.
' FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
superior quality in pipes, imported in the fi» ; p
Wil Tlington.
OLD SHERRY WINE of the firft quality
in onarter cafk<;, imported in the brig Nancy
cap :. Gwin. fr. m Cadiz.
' S'iELLED ALMONDS and a fevr kegs of
imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIFKF WINES,in p'pes
hhd . and quarter calks, import't« in tlie fl*sp
"Thomas, capt. Skinner.
A few quarter of old particular bill
r - of exchaugc MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who has alfb, just arrived andli>r fate
e A SMALL CARGO OF
Lijbon Salt. A
A quantity of empty HAGS to< Wo.
April 5. w&rsim.
Just Imported, ,
In theJhip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peter/burgh in RuJJia, and Kozv landing at
RuffeWs wharf,
HEMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHKETINGS,
R:,VEjSS PUCK,
RUSSIA BVCK,
And for Ulc at ihc ftoreiof the fubfer ibei-ia
Walflui ftrcet, N .. 22
"John Donnaldfon.
April 4. ;<iiw t;
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, N> 3
.• South Fourth-Street.