of tkt
evening adve
[No. 35 of Vol. V.]
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths & Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An tlegaat Jljfortment of
SILVER iff PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY fnf CyTLERY,
Which they will difpoie of on ret**
fonable terms. Devices in hair,
sett, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, done as u.'ual,
December 24.
This day is publifhsd.
By MATHEW CAREY,
No 118, Ma RKIT-ST K EST,
( Price a quarter dollar)
A short account of ALGIERS,
Containing ■* description of t be climate of that
country — of the manners and cuftoins of th." in
habit Mltf, and of their several warsagaitift Spain,
France, England, Holland, Venice, and other
powers of Europe, fiom the ufur.pa.Mon of Bar
haroffa and the invafmu of the Emptor Charles
V. to the present time; with n coocife view of
the origin of the rupture between ALGIERS
w»d the UNITED STATES.
J an 9- dtf.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogf«eads and in cases of 50 bodies each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipea, hogsheads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN V A UGH AN,
N«. in, J»omh Fronv-ftrcet.
Jan. 2, frg\. dtp
ALL persons having any de
manfls agaiuft the fttfate ot GECVjtGI
WIBLE, late ot the city ot Philadelphia, baker,
arc rrqucflrid to bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated ; and those who are indebted, arc
desired to make immediate payment.
HENRY REES, Am»niftr*tor.
2aw^\v.
January 13.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by
Thomas Dobfon,
Price three eighths of a Dollar,
u An Enquiry into the priUCip.v-S
and tendency of certain public
measures."
January 16.
advertisement.
ViritntA, KorthambtrUndCountw Dec. 28, 1793.
FOR SJLE,
A Valuable Tra£t of LAND,
in this county, containing about eight
hundred acres, oue fourth of which is low
grounds, of excellen/ quality ; the other thrce
fourihs is high land, well coveted with oak,
hickory and chefnut.
The fmiation is pteafant and healthy, on Yeo
eomico river, about three miles from the Poto
mack. There is on it a two ftorv brick dwel
ling-house, with Four rooms and a paffagc on
each floor, exclufrve bf closets ; a good kitchcn,
and oiliei neccffary out-houfes. It has orchards
of apple and P a^h lrce8 > and is wfcl * watcred
by many delightful (prings. The terms may be
known on application to the Honorable JOHN
HEATH, in Philadelphia, or to the fjblcriber,
living on the prrmiles,
Jan. ,0. dlf
JOHN GORDON.
NORRI S-C OU RT,
Back of the New Library, between Chel'nut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informa his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the bufincfs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or \vindow-fhutters,done in the mod
elegant manner, and with difyarch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December go, dtf
This day is publi/bcd,
THE
United States Register,
For the Year 1794.
Printed by Stewart and Cochran, No. 34,
South Secood-llrret,Md John M'Culloch, No. 1,
Noitk THiid-ftreel, w>d 10 be fold by ihcro »ud
the bookfcfltil.
J*o. it.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Secwd-Jlreet,
Seconddoor below the corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Brftain and Ireland,
A large and general AJfortment of
New Books anJ Stationary,
Which will be difpoled ofoll the lowest fejms.
D?c. 23. mwfcf tf
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1.794.
NOTICE is hereby g ven, that there will
be paid at the Bank, . t fter the sixteenth
instant, to the Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty eenti. for each share, being the dividend
declared for the last fix months.
mw&ftf
Insurance Company,
Philadelphia, January 6, t794.
NOTICE is hereby g:ven to the members
of the Insurance Company of North-
America, that the D:reftors.have declared a
dividend (for the last fix months) of six peR
Crkt, on the amount ot the fitil and second
intlalments ; and of one per cent per month
on the funis paid in anticipation of the third
instalment, calculating from the fii ft day of
the month following that, in wJbicTi those pay
ments were made. The di v idend will be paid
to the or their representatives,
at the company's office. No. 119 south Frout
ftreet, at any time after the 13th instant.
By order of the Directors.
EBENIiZER HAZARD, Secretary.
J* 71 -9. w&f.im.
Tfeafury Department,
NO TICE is hereby given, that proposals will
be received at the Office of the Secretary
of the Treasury, until the 6th of February next
include, tor the supply of all Rations which
may b* acquired during the present year, at the
feverai places of rendezvous hereafter mention
ed, fpr the Recruiting Service, viz.
At Ncw-Brunfwkk, in New-Jerfcy ;
At Philadelphia, ")
At Lancaster, > in Pennsylvania.
At Reading, )
The rations to be furnifhed are to consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of biead or flour,
One pound of beef, or | of 9 pound of pork -
Half a jill of r u~, bTu'.'.dy or wbifky,
One quart of fait
Two q„ aru 0 f vinegar f |OQ (Jt ; ons
Iwo pounds ot loap f
On pound of candles)
J* n
STOLEN,
dtw
A few days ago, from No. 6, Ljetitia Court,
A Silver Table-Spoon,
Marked I. C. maker's name R. H. Whoever
returns said Uipoon to the owner, ftiall receive
One Dollar reward, and no questions asked.
N. B Silverfmirhs and others are requested
to stop said spoon, if offered for sale, and give
notice as above.
Jan. 17- t^t
The Young LADIES'
Drawing Academy,
Under the Direfl'wn of
S. FOLWELL,
Will, in a few ilnys, be resumed.
HE feels a gratitude to those parent *
and guardians of the young ladies,
who have entrusted to him their tuition—
and as most of them are to return, he will
have an opportunity, by his endeavors for
their further improvement, to acquit him
felf of a debt, which he -esteems it an honor
to have incurred.
One or two large Rooms,
In a central situation, suitable to accom
modate Iris pupils, are wanted. Apply to
him, at No. 2, Laetitia Court—where he
will be thankful to receive commands for
Miniature Painting or Hair Work, and all
kind of Drawing on Ivory, Sattitt or
Paper.
Janvary 13, 1794
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
By M. CAREY,
No. 118, MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuable colle&ion ofiBOOKS,
imported frott London inthe Mohawk.
Dec. 19.
AND
Wednesday, January 22, 1794-
By Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cstfhier.
tawt6F.
diw
Seat of War.
For Sale, at M. CAREY's Sttn,
No. 118, Marktt-ilreet,
A Sheet Map of the
French, Austrian and Dutch Netherlands, in
which the progress of the present War may
be traced.——Pi ice three eighths if a dollar.
And a Map of the Three Northei
of Fravnce, divided into Departments.———
Price | 9j a dollar.
Maps of the United
States: —Any public spirited gentlemen, pos
sessed of materials for correcting and improv
ing the Maps of the several States, will lay
M. Carey under very particular obligations,
by communicating them. He is in immediate
want of some for New Jersey and Delaware ;
of which States he is now preparing Maps.
Guthrie's Geography:
The subscription for thuwo k will be con
tinued open, at the present rate of twelve
dollars, til! the fir It day of November next;
after which, it will be railed to fourteen dol
lars.
CASTELLI,
Italian Stay and Habit-Maker,
ENCOURAGED by several Ladies of Phi
ladtlphia, now in New-York, has remov
ed from thence to this city, in Cooper'* Court,
No. 35 north fide of Mulbery ft reet, between
Front and Second ; where all kinds of Stays
are madep- as Italian fliape, French corset,
English, .'Silk turn, Riding, Suckling Hays, &c.
Alio, ,Lacfjs' Habits, Surtouts, Gowns, and all
kinds of cirtiTes for balls, completed in the
newelt anqf, moil elegant fafhion-
Any Ig*iies in New York and Charleston,
who may wish to employ him, and will be
pie a fed to lend their mea! tires fliall have their
work h/iifhed with the utmost neatnels and
dispatch.
N. B. Said Caftelli has an aflortraent of
ready made ftayj. to fell.
Jan. 7. 3t.
From thm yiuskic.it/ Mj.vra
Number of Dejfels entered c* the port of
Philadelphia y during the year I 79 1
Ships and Barques,
Snows and Brigs,
Schooners,
Sloops,
Total from foreign ports,
Coaiting vefTels,
In 1793,
Shipi,
Snows and Brigs,
Schooners and Sloops,
TotiJ,
Clearances in 1793
Sh'.ps,
Sn,owß and Brigs,
Schooners and Sloops,
Total,
Number of vrjfeh entered at the port of
Nt-W'Tori:, in 179 1 -
Ships and Barques,
Snows and Brigs,
Galliot,
Polacre,
Schooners,
Sloops,
Total from foreign ports,
Coasting veflels,
Total,
11% 1793 from foreign parts.
Ships,
Barque,
Snows,
Brigs,
Schooners,
Sloops,
Total from foreign ports,
Coaitlng vessels,
Total,
RTI S E
[Whole No. 495.J
Clearances 1789* f or Foreign Pen's.
Ships, - . . . 138
Barque, 1
Snows, (j
Brigs, - - . . 254
Schooners, - - . 145
Sloops, - - . . 136
Total for foreign ports,
CoatHng vt'llclt,
Total, - . . 2064
In 1793 —difference! of Entrances in favor
of New-Tort.
Vessels from foreign ports, - iji:
Coasters, - - . 407
In 1793 —differences of square rigged veK
fcfs in favor of Philadelphia. [flhe
others not being dijlinguifb, d from tlx
Coaflers] - - . fjq
Difference in the Coasting trade not alcir-
Total difference in Entrances favor of
New-Tori, in 1793,' - 1009
Total difference of clearances in favor
of New-York, I - 973
Frem the for/going returns at the Cuflom-
House, these remarks naturally follow :
I. THAT the entrances of square rin
ged vessels at Philadelphia from foreign
ports are more numerous in 1793, than
1791 j whereas those in New-York ate
less; the other vessels are not diftinguilh
ed in the Philadelphia return from the
coaflers, so that a comparative view of the
trade is incomplete. The fatal sickness in
Philadelphia the summer pnft, sad the
French ships of war en our coast, and es
pecially in New-York harbor, may have
been causes of these differences in the so-
reign trade.
2. We remark an aftani/hing increase
of the coaftiag trade of New-York ; the
difference between the years 1791 & '793
being no less than 2y'K entrances. Th.;
editor has not malerials for determining
the exports from Philadelphia and New-
York the year pad ; but for the year end
ing Sept. 31, 179 1, the exports! from
Pennsylvania exceeded those of New-York.
From Pennsylvania, 2,931,624 dolls|
New-York, 2,516,197
122
250
78
117
Diff. in fav. of Pennf. 0,415,4.27
All the produce exported mult com; to
market by land or water. If there are
400 entrances of coatters at New-York
more than at Philadelphia, the expence of
transporting these 400 cargoes by land, is
saved, and this saving is in favor of the
hnfbandman and manuftfturer.* Each
of these cargoes may be cftimatcd at to
tons! total ort 011s in 400 cargoes, 24000
—on each of which water tranfpurtation
ntufl save a considerable expense. Not to
mention the advantage of railing upa body
of feainen, by means of ths coalting
567
694
1261
i6j
288
599
1050
'43
2jß
690
trade.
The Editor is happy to have it in his
power to contrail the commerce of these
ciiies, with that of certain Cities in
109 1
Spain,
Entered at Barcelona in 1782 —628
vessels, of which 3 t 7 bckmared to Spain,
At Alicsut in do. 961 —600 of them
Spamfh. At Malaga in do. 842 —about
100 Spanilh. At Cadiz in J:i. 1,033—
50 only belonging to Spain.
Yet Barcelona contains ny.ooo inha
bitants, and Cadiz 80,000; both m.'X'h
larger than either Philadelphia or New-
York. Malaga is abont the size of New-
York. Alicant is indeed fmalLr, but
there is no companion between the adtive
iiiduftry of a free people, and rh- hnprnid
exertions of men under opprefßve govern-
120 I n
280 A
1 S
IJS J.
158
b
719 la
hoi \
181 9
t.
l i 2
I
9
220
'43
lOJ
raents.
* It is calculatod that the difference
between the prices of land and water carri
age on me best roads in France, is as 1 to
150 in favor of the latter.
610
1449
(Cy~ Gentle,u ■*, in poffijjtm ojSubfc r'.fAott
papers for this Genuite, are rcqiufted to
tcanfmit them to the Editor's Office.
20J9
R.
(
1
»
k
I
683
1381
tamed.■
CONGRESS.
I loafs of Rcprefeutat'ives.
January 16.
In committee 0f the whole, on the report of
the Secretary of State, relative to toe com
mcrciiil ihicrcourfe of this country, ivith so-
rtt~v TJdt:uvs.
Mr. S. Smith after a few introdu&ory
obfei vat ions, said, the objett of the refuta
tion is to lay an extra duty on goods from
powers not in treaty with the United
States. Those duties will operate as a
bounty, fay for calcidation, of 5 per cent,
in favor of those powers with whom we
have a treaty of commerce—tor experience
has (hewn that those nations cannot supply
us on terms so favorable as that with whom
uo treaty exists.
It is a fnbje& then of fair enquiry—
what advantages we enjoy from those na
tion* (we are in treaty with) to induce
us to grant then* fnch bounty—and what
are the disadvantages which result from
those treaties ?
The United States have a commercial
treaty with France, Holland, Pruflia and
Sweden.
What arc the commercial advantages ?
The advantages in the treaties mod ufeful
to ui aie, that free mips make free goods,
and this is to be reciprocal.
We have seen that this stipulation has
been violated whenever the neceflity of the
cafe (in their opinion) made it ufeful to
France. The disadvantages of those trea
ties are their prizes coming into our.ports,
and their armed vessels cruizing on our
coasts.
It appears then, that we have no ad
vantages given us by those treaties fuffici
ent to induce us to lay a tax of J percent.
011 17 millions of dollars of importations,
from powers not in treaty with us, fay
850,000 dolla- s per annum to ast as a
bounty on the manufactures of the nations
in tleaty.
It then becomes a fubjeft of enquiry,
what injuries have we received from the
powers with whom we have no commer
cial treaty, that should induce us to tax
ourselves, 850,000 dollars per annum to
retaliate on them.
These powers are Spain, Portugal,
Denmark, Ruflia, Hamburgh, Bremen,
and the other iianfe towns, and Great Bri
tain.
Spain has laid a heavy duty on our flour
to e.icoui age her own ; but not more than
on that of other nations. She has also un
dertaken, in alliancc with Great Britain,
to prevent our taking our produce to
Franpe, contrary to the custom in former
wars. It is true, the fame two powers
attempted the fame thing on a former oc
casion. Spain has by a late editt granted
to nations in treaty of commerce, license
to trade to Louisiana, Florida, See. &c.
which immediately excludes us, and this
may be of serious consequence.
The EngliTn will introduce a good mar
ket for tobacco there ; perhaps they may
think it their interest to reduce the duty
or. that article, now 3s. 6d. per pound, to
the lame with ours, which is is. 3d. —or
if we pass these resolutions, make our 6
Js. 6d. and theirs is. 3d.
But Spain takes almofl all their flour,
a great quantity of wheat, corn and lum
ber, beef, pork, fifh, rice, &c. See. from
us, and is our very best customer.
She supplies us with dollars, brandy,
wine, fruits, fait, and silk goods, on fair
terms. Some of thefeare articles which can
not be procured from the powers in treaty,
and ought we to offend her to gratify our
resentment against England ?
Portugal reftifes since our Revolution
to take our flour—in every other refpeft
(lie is among our best friends—(he receives
our wheat, corn, lumber and many other
articles—her late conduct calls for our fin
cerr.ft gratitude.
She supplies us with wine, falt,fomeEaft-
India goods, lemons, &c. &c.
Why fiiould we declare commercial war
against such a friend ?
The immediate relations with Denmark
are encreafing daily, and on fair terms—
111 her islands we have the faireft inter
course. Our flour, meal, corn, lumber,
beef, pork, and fi(h, are received there in
our own bottoms, and we bring from
thence all their produce.—Their children
are educated among us, form friendfhips,
and matrimonial connexions.
Why (hould we declare a commercial
war apsinft a power so friendly ?
Russia affords us iron, hemp, fail-duck,
fln*etiogs, aud feme other articles—admits
to into her ports on fair terms, and leavei
to us the whole carrying trade between
the two countries. —What cause have tve
to tax her commodities ? She has done ao
thing to offend us—seems well difpofec—
and many of her articles can be had no
where else ; and it ought to be coniidered,
(he can support the armed neutrality.
Hamburgh and Bremen receive our ves
sels with every poflible mark of friendfhip
—they take great quantities of tobacco,
rice,, deerskins, furs, and a surplus of our
imports from the Weft Indies ; they sup
ply us with glass, German oznabrigs, and
other German linens ; on mucli better terms
than any other country. What injury
have those republics done us, that we
(hould throw their trade into the lap of
Holland, where we generally pay 5 to 10
per cent more than we pay in these ports.
I come now said Mr. Smith, to the
great Humbling block, Great Britain, a
gainll whom these resolutions point, and
whose political conduct has been the fruit
ful topic of so much declamation.
He concurred in opinion with those who
had severely reprobated the conduct of
their piratical privateers towards our navi
gation—but are those good reasons, said
he, why we should commence a commer
cial war with more than one half the Eu
ropean nations, or even with her, unless
we shall find it greatly to our intereit. Al
terations of commercical systems require
time and much delicacy in effe&ing. We
do not at present know what will be the
result of proper remonstrances against the
injuries we have fuffered ? Has Great Bri
tain laid any reftri&ions on our commerce
which are not fimilarto those (he lays on
other foreign nations ? I believe not.
Have we any advantages in her ports
over other foreigners ? I believe we have.
Our citizens go there, commence and
pursue trade, without being fubjcct to the
Alien duty paid by other foreigners.
Our tobacco pays 1/3 per lb. duty, when
all other pays 3/6 per lb.
Our pot and pearl afhesarefree ; others
pay 2f per cwt.—which is equal to the
freight.
Our naval stores pay less duty than ci
thers pay, which acting at a bounty to ui
enables us to fend thefc bulky articles to
such a distance.
Some of our wood is in the fame situa
tion.
The exportation of our lumber on these
advantageous terms, is particularly bene
ficial to, and promotive of our (hipping.
A cargo of lumber which costs not more
than 400 or 500 pounds would fell for 12
or 1400.
Mr. Smith observed that he presumed
no one would tax him with being preju
diced in favor of Great Britain ; he had
fuffered by them severely, he had fought
againll their usurpations, and (hould his
duty call him, he trusted he (hould not
heiitate to do so again. It is not what
Britain may fuffer by the system proposed,
but the disadvantage which will be the
consequence to the United States, that
ought to be taken into consideration. Our
duty is not to injure others, but to pro
tect our own interest.
Mr. Smith then enquired,
What have we done to benefit our own
commerce ?
In the firft. Congrefs,a duty of 50 cents
on foreign tonnage, and 6 cents on our
own, gave an advantage of 44 cents in
our favour ; and put us more than on a
footing with the extra light money of 1/9
fterl. a ton on onr velfels, charged in all
their parts, except London.
We also laid a duty of i-ioth extraon
goods by foreign veflels—what has been
its consequence.
A gentleman from Virginia, ftatedthat
in 1660, Great Britain pafled their navi
gation ast, when the foreign trade was
1-4 th of the whole, in 1770 it was leffen
edto 1-6 th.
What is the consequence of our law ?
The foreign tonnage in 1770, was
nearly 1-3 dof the whole.
In 1792, the foreign tonnage was re
duced nearly to i-4th or as 244 to 568.
Thi« being the cafe, we have by ourexif
ting laws and industry decreased this pro
portion of the foreign tonnage 1 -6th—
thus has our existing laws done nearly as
much in 2 years for us, as the navigation
laws of Great Britain did for them in 40
years.
Under the existing state of things, Mr.
Smith said, he could not fee the policy of
pulhing regulations to accelerate a progress
already without example.
The fame gentleman said, that the ma
nufactures of Great Britain amount to j 1
millions, and that the proportion to Ame-
Rica, is 1 millions—fay 4 per cent of the
exports of that country : will she give up
her navigation ad for the profits of 4 per
cent on her exports ? Can it be expected
that (he will deviate from a system which
more than 100 years experience has con
firmed the utility of.
With refped to France, Mr. Smith ac
knowledged in warm terms, the obligati
ons this country was under to that, for
the services rendered during the «var. —
France, said he, will be a republic, and as
republicans, they will treat with us on fair
liberal, and reciprocal terms.
Mr. Smith concluded by reading the
following comparative statement:—
England.
ift. American (hips ift. Briulh (hips pay
pay no mere duty of in her ports 44 cents
tonnage in her ports duty of tonnage more
than her own pay, but than ber own (hips
they pay 1/9 sterling, pay.
or 39 cents extra for
lights(except in the port
of London) where ail
pay alike.
2d. The ships of A- 2.1. AH poods im
mcrica carry freely to ported in Biiufhfhips
Great-Britain the pre- to the United States,
duce of the United pay 10 per cent, addi-
States (whe«e her own tion on the duties paid
(hips «rc permitted) & when imported in her
pay the fame duty own (hips, which a
(hereon that is paid by mount almost to the
the lhips of Great- whole freight on an as-
Briuin. fortcd cargo of Biitifti
manufactures.
3d. AH trade in A- 3d. America has no
merican fhios 10 the Colonies, (lie fupplics
Bntifh Weit-Indies, is the British Weft-India
prohibited, CXCCpt in Inlands with 45,000
times (such as the pre- barrels flour per ann.
sent) of war, and parti- Shall we risque this ad
cular scarcity. vantage, brcjufe they
will not let us employ
1 2 brigs to carry it ?
4th. The trade to 4th. America has no
the British Eaft-Jndies Eatl-India feiilements.
is free for Americans,
they enter and fell free
ly there, as well their
cargoes as (hips, when
even Britifli ships are
prohibited.
sth. American (hip- sth. British
ping can carry no so- permitted to bi ing
reign aiticle to Great- goods of every country
Britain, nor any thing to t he United States;
except her own pio- but then they are sub
duct; they cannot car- j e st t o an additional
ry any ot her manufac- d*ty of 10 per cent, on
lures, except pot and t h c duty paid on goods
pearl ashes, pig and bar imported in our own
iron—which articles are ships, which in almost
free from duty. all cases amounts to a
prohibition ; her cop
per, tin, lead, and some
% other grofsarticles, pay
no duty.
6th. Great-Britain 6th. America admits
admns from America nothing free ©f duty
free of dutv, plank, pot from Great-Britain,
and pearl alhes, bar and that is not equally free
pig iron,when (he char- from all other coun
ges a duiy on the fame tries.
articles from other na-
rions, equal in Tome in-
fbnccs to a full freight.
which enables America
»o- trmfpATi such bulky
articles on equal terms;
fre charge iper lb.
on American tobacco,
and oo all other.
(Toh Continued\)
Foreign Intelligence.
The following intelligence it tranjlated from
Leyden Gazettes, received at Baltimore
from Amjlerdam.
MANHEIM, (Germany) October 22.
Since the 14th inft. the Prussian army,
which by its movements contributed to
the success of General Wurmfer, and the
Prince of Waldeck, remains in a state of
tranquility, and we no longer hear the
npife of cannon from the fide of the Blife
and Sarrie.
The head quarters of the Duke of Brunf
wick, on the 17th infl. were at La Ver
rerie de Maftall near Rifhoflen. The
French occupied the environs of Flamn
berg, and it is said sent part of their for
ces towards Saralbe and Bouquenon. To
the latter place the members of the dif
trift of Buche have transferred their fef
fioni.
LEYDEN, Nov. i.
A letter from Bruflels, dated the 28th
ult. informs, that the French, to make a
diversion in favor of the grand army com
manded by General Jourdon, made a
grand attack on the whole cordon, of the
allied forces, from Tournay to the sea.
Early on the morning of the Z2d ult. a
column of French troops, fiom fix to se
ven thousand strong, composed partly of
the garrison of Dunkirk and of the troops
which occupied the entrenched camp of
Gyvelde, advanced towards Funics, with
a tram of heavy cannon and mortars, with
an intention to force that place: The
garrison amounting to upwards of two
thousand men, composed of Auftrians,
Hessians, and French emigrants, marched
out in order of battle to engage the ene
my, and a bloody action commenccd, in
which both parties often had recourse to
the deilrwftive bayonet; but, after the
greatest efforts of bravery, the allied for
ces were forced to yield to the superior
numbers of the French who entered pell
mell with them into Furnes, in the streets
of which place they again /ought for some
time. Our troops, surrounded on all
fides, succeeded in forcing their way thro'
the enemy's battalions, and made their
retreat to Nieuport, though continually
harraffed. The French, elated by this
advantage, immediately marched against
Nieuport, with some pieces of heavy can
non and four mortars. General Hoche,
who commanded the French on this ex
pedition, sent the following remarkable
summons to the inhabitants of Nieupoit
—" I summon you to surrender immedi
ately to the arms of the French Republic,
before which all (horJd yield; and I re
quire that lix hostages, the most eminent
persons in your city, mltantly give them
selves up at my camp; otherwise, sur
rounded, attacked by sea and land, your
city will be destroyed ; I will enter on the
fmoaking ruins of your hoiifes and the
panting wrecks of your numbers: Let
the example of Furnes teach you not to
depend on your defenders, who calumni
ate because we beat them." Tin magis
trates of Nieuport, not terrified at rodo
montade, simply answered, that it was to
the military commandant he Ihould have
addrelTed himfelf, and not to them. On
this refufal, the French began to throw
in (hells and bullets, which much dama
ged the city : Then the garrison determi
ned to open the sluices and inundate the
surrounding country, which they did with
such success, that the enemy were obliged
to retire with precipitation that they had
not time to carry off two twenty-four
pounders which they planted in a batte
ry. In the mean time, on the firft intel
ligence of this invasion which reached
Oftend, four English regiments, who were
ready to embark, and a part of the gar
rison, made a movement to succour Nieu
port.
America.
A second column of French advanced
against our posts at Werwyek and Mou
corn, which theyattacked with the great eft
vivacity ; After a most murdering engage
ment, our troops retreated, abandoning
some pieces of dismounted cannon. The
enemy entered Menin on the 23d of Oft.
and the garrison retired to Wevelghem,
by the Icontrary road, where thev were
attacked on the 24th, b"' f u ' ; h 4
vigorous defjace as obliged the French to
retire.
While this palled toward* Weft-Flan
ders, the French, who occupied the camp
of La Magdelaine, under Lisle, advanced
with a large train of artillery towards De
nain, Marchienn«s, and Orchies, which
they attacked very brifldy at the fame
time : They were repu'.fed every where
but at Marchiennes, which they got pof
fefiion of; but the allied troops, encamp
ed at Ciofing,having advanced on the ene
my, a most bloody battle commenced,
which ended in the precipetate retreat of
the French, whom our troops pursued for
a considerable time. We have no certain
accounts of the lofTes sustained by both
parties in three different engagements;
but we know, positively, that the enemy
have severely fuffered, and that, on our
fide, we have also 101 l many men.
As soon as our Generals received advice
of the enemy's progress in Flandeis, the
Duke of York?at the head of the English
army, advanced by party marches to the
relief of that part of our frontier.
Whale they fought so obstinately in
Flanders, our troops in Hainult weie not
less active. General Jourdon having (hewn
by his movements that he projected an en
terprize against Quefnoy, the Prince of
Sax Cobourg advanced, on that fide, to
watch the enemy, and eftablilhed his head
quarters at Bermerain. On the 23d, Ge
neral Ferrand left Maubeuge, at the head
of fix thousand men, with a design to at
tack the wood of Tileul, where our troops
held several important polls. On this oc
casion a very long and obstinate battle w?s
fought, the victory was long doubtful, but
at last the French were rcpulfed with
great loli ; ours was not considerable.
Yesterday morning a courier arrived
here, who brings intelligence of a great
advantage being gained by General Clair
fait, over a body of French troops, who
were furroundcd in the sorest of Boucluiu.It appsars that th«r enemy have loft their
artillery, and that Clairfait has taken a
great number of prisoners. We expect
further accounts of this new affair.
Some perions ha7e been lately arretted
at Gartd, who are known to be connect
ed with the Jacobin party, and have ma
m'elled their sentiments by proceedings
tending to excite popular tumults. Others
nave been aiTetted here in an inn, who
uifcovered, by their rejoicings, a barbarous,
and more than indecent joy, for the cruel
death of the Queen of France ; which
tiews, on the contrary, so strongly af
fe&ed a gentleman formerly in her service,
that o.i the morning he heard it he (hot
hiraldf.
From the Monsieur Uaivetfal.
Printed at Paris.
Extract of a letter from Hamburg, dated
November 4, 1793.
Tltere is 110 doubt, lays the Englilh
papers, but the St. Domingo fleet of mer
chantmen have failed for the ports of
North America : there the cargoes, add
they, will be publicly fold, and thereby
bccome American property ; they lhall
be carried under American colours, not
only to B'rance.but to any port wliatfoever.
PARIS, Nov.
The curate of the Parish of St. Roche,
id Paris, and four other priests have been
executed ; they were accused of having
supplied the wheelbarrow-men of the re
public with files, by the affiitance of which
several made their escape. They have been
tried and condemned by the Revolution
ary Tribunal, and were guillotined vefter
day on the square of the Revolution.
Pntdliome has presented the Execu
tive Council \vith the copy of the crimes
of the Emperors of Germany, whose blood
thirsty fnmily are new staining and ravag
ing the foil of Liberty. He further in
forms, that he intends Ihortly to present
them a collection of the crimes of all the
other Crowned Tyrants. It was agreed
that honorable mention shall be niiade of
•lie civic offer made by citizen Prudhome.
Extraordinary Cn'minai Tribunal.
James Funduty, ci-devant noble ana
an officer l-i i Itgitnect of infant! y, hat
been condemned to fuffer death, being
charged with and convi&ed of emigration.
After sentence of death was palled on
him, he asked leave to speak, which was
granted. I'll die, said he, as i have lived ;
the Tribunal (hall repent for having con
demned me ; my prophecy will be certain.
—The president interrupted him, and or
dered the guards to carry him away. The
•culprit then turning himfelf towards the
fpeftators, expreiTed himfelf thus : Sove
reign, I die fatisfied and content, since
Lewis XVII. will very soon reign over
Frenchmen. No, no, d—n you, cried
unanimoufiy all the lpeftstors, he (hall not
reign, and the repeated cries of Long live
the "public made the hall resound from
every pait. He was guillotined the next
day at three o'clock P. M.
November 8.
Perigny, a joint-commiflioner who ad
vocated Fo much the promotion of admi
ral Trogolf, has been guillotined, after
having been convi&sd of treachery in the
affair of Toulon.
UNITED STATES.
GEORGE-TOWN, Jan. 17
" On Monday lajl, agreeably to notice,
the Books for the fubfeription of Jhares in
the Columbia Bank were opened. More
than double the number of /hares permitted by
the law to be taken, were demanded. Of
eonrfe, a reduction became necessary. Subscrib
ers under 20Jhares were not touched—all
the rejl were curtaded, the great,jl proportion
being taken from the largefl fubferiptions.—
The bii/inefs was ft conduced as to afford,
Bttwihjlanding the disappointments, general
fitisfaSion. The large/! number of Jhares
taken by one of the gentlmen appointed to re
ceive fubferiptions, is 120. To the honor of
the inhabitants of this town, they were re-
Jlrained, by considerations oj delicacy, from
engaging in any kind of speculation upon the
fubjeti ; though it was evident that they might
have done so to great advantage. The great
bulk of tlx Jhares was taken by those who
mean to hold them and not to fell ; and a
great number is in the hands of country gen
thmen, and monied men, in different parts
tf thejlate.
BENNINGTON, January 10.
Carious contrail of 1763 with 1794.
Lord's Day, Augujl C)th, 1763. Jo
nathan Winthrop, desires the prayers of this
Church, &c. b:in? on a jsurnty to ths <wil
tkrnefs, twelve miles north of Stocklridgc,
if found prcifttcabls. hits friends may call
to prny ivith and talee lea or of bunt any time
previous to Friday morning next. Bolton.
1794* -A tine
the lines frcm B
They willJlart every 'Jjjgk/
morning, meet at Pittsjulci,
[res will run weekly,
ind Al!'any, to meet
and Friday
<S»«S*.o''o>«S>><©='o'-©»<€3*c<sy.<3«©.
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY
Last evening-arrived in town, Colonel
E. Oswald,from Havre-de-Grace,which
place he left the 9th November. We
hear that Mr. Oswald has bro't difpatcl.es
for the Secretary of State, and M. Genet.
By Col. Oswald we learn, that twenty
two membars of the National Convention,
have been tried by the Revolutionary
lribunal of Paris, and found guiltv of
conspiring against the Republic—and were
afterwards guillotined—among them Brif
fot. One of the members dabbed himfelf,
but was carried to the guillotine with the
Petion, Condorcet and Le Brun,
late minister of ioreign affairs, had made
their escape.
In an Annapolis paper of the I6th inft.
Meflrs. Wignell and Rcinagl e's company
advertise their intention to depart in a
week. The fubferibers to our theatre
have written to those gentlemen urging
their return to this city, if their other en
gagements will allow : but as considerable
expencr has been incurred in building a
theatre for them in Baltimore, it is feared
they will not visit us until some time in
March next.
Extract of a letter from Angufta, Georgia,
December 11
" On Saturday we received the joyous
confirmed accounts of the general defeat
of the several divifionsof combined despots
against the only real Republicans in the
world. On this continent we have been
taught to believe, that our constitution
breathes more than freedom itfelf, but
when I compare it with that of the French,
I find v.'e arc rtiackled with nearly a 6 much
aristocracy as when under the slavish chains
of British tyranny. To-morrow we are
to hare an ox killed and barbecued on the
common ; the governor gives powder to
fire a feu dejuyr ; no person shall be at it,
but those who are real friends to the re
public of France ; nor dare a fellow who
has been hardy enough to pollute freedom,
or abuse its cause, approach the sacred
ground. A notification to that effect will
be handed round, although there are not
more than twenty such above the line
of »
" We are informed, fays a correspond
ent, that the class of citizens" who have
petitioned against the stage, are in no de
gree displeased with the comparison ialti
tuted in this paper of lalt evening, between
the Theatre and Swine. On the contrary,
they think, that, as the things compared
are evidently some of the dirtiefi and mojl
filthy in nature, the simile is peculiarly
happy, so far as this point of refemblahce
is concerned : And they are confident that
the public will remark that there i» not a
shadow of likeness in any thing beside ; be
cause the position from which it would a
rise—" that the Theatre is not incompa
tible with the good order of society"—is
begged ; —and that it has been begged and
legged, till no body but a Jlurdy lieggar
would haTe the face to beg it any more.
NEJV CARRIAGE.
John Fritz, an ingenious mechanic in
Germany, has lately exhibited a Chariot of
hit own invention, which may be put in mo
tion, with the hand,by means of a spring, and
•which moves with so much rapidity, as to ad
vance a quarter of a league in less than five
minutes.
By this Day's Mail.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
By the Jhip Hunter, Captain Hacker, from
London, arrived at New-Tori.
OSTEND, Nov. 1
The Carmagnoles that hefieged Nieu
port, have been glad to make good their
retreat to Caflel and Dunkirk. There is
not a Frenchman on this fide the latter
place. The ditmiige which, they <iid to
Nituport docs not prove to be so gi cat a*
was at iirtt apprehended. The chief at
tack was on the 25th nit. It commenced
at 7 in the morning, and continued till
night. Ihe artillery from our ramparts
did great execution ; the vny firil aif
eharge set iire to a hrew-houfe and (table,
behind which the French had entrenched
themfclven, and it was speedily reduced to
allies.
1 lie !ofs of the republicans cannot be
nfeertained, at they carried off their killed
and wounded, a few excepted, whom they
left upon the ground.
The four 24 pounders and two howitz
ers which they left behind them, together
with a vafl quantity of (hot and balls, are
now in the square at Nieuport. The enemy
luffered much from 5 (hips of war, which
lay off Nieuport, and flanked them.
COURTRAY, oa. 26.
This day, from eight in the morning
till night, the armies were engaged. The
battle began with (kirmifhes, but soon be
came general. At last confufion spread
among the French, and they are com
pleatly routed. Our troops pursued the
enemy far beyond Menin, their loss which
mult have been conliderable, cannot be yet
ascertained.
It is now aiTtired, that the French army
is surrounded in its pufition in the environs
of Menin, by the troops of the Allies,
which arrived on the left over Dottignies
and Rolleghim, and on the right over
Galleghim and Morfule.
VIENNA, Oa. 20.
Lieutenant Count Gallenberg arrived
here yesterday, preceded by 33 postillions
with the news of the capture of the lines
of Weiffembourg.
The most serious preparations are ma
king for a third campaign. Gallicia a
lone will furnifh 17,000 men.
The States of Hnngary have offered a
frefh army of 50,000 men to the Empe
ror.—
GREFFERN, (on the Rhine) Oft. 20.
Fort Louis is summoned, but the Go
vernor declares he will defend it to the lalt
extremity—Preparations are making for
its initant bombardment.
LEGHORN, Oft. 10.
The grand Duke of Tufcany has at
length renounced his neutrality, and de
clared war against France. His mauifefto
is, however, not yet publilhed.
The French Conl'ul who relides here 13
ordered to withdraw, and take with him
all the citizens of his nation. Yesterday
evening the arms of the French Repub
lic were removed from the door of his
house.
PARIS, O&ober 2J.
General Carteau is hourly expe&ed at
Nice. He quits his army with regret,
and be replaced by General Lapopye.
Admiral Goodall is {aid to have lent
word to the latter, that he would release
his wife and children, if he would give up
the command of the army before Toulon.
General Lapopye who retook fort Pha
ron, answered, that he would facrificr his
estate, his life and his love to his coun
try.
LONDON, Nov. 7,
The city of Florenzo in the island of
Corlica, is now besieged by five ships of
Lord Hood's squadron on the sea, and by
Gen. Paoli on the land fide. It is meant
to be flarved into a surrender.
The grand total of prisoners, in the
different goals of Paris, amounted on the
24th ult. to 3042.
In the proceedings of the National
Convention, so late down as OA. 27, it is
stated that the Royalists of La Vendee,
far from being exterminated, have jjained
advantages over the republicans, and have
the city of Laval.
By authentic accounts from Frankfort
of the 28th, wc learu that the allied pow
ers had taken pofleflion of Alsace in the
name of his most Christian Majesty Louis
XVII.
The report of the surrender of I.andau
is not founded. The garrison of the for
trefs sent a trumpeter, offering to capitu
late. They demanded, bcfidcs a free re
treat, other conditions, similar to the
garrison of Mentz, but this was refufed.
Fort Louis also wanted to capitulate ;
but the allies answered the patriots, that
they mult surrender at difcrction. The
lattci- place is bombarded daily.
From Rreft wt learn, that 2 ilujn Lr
longingto the Toulon named Be
Patrjote, and J.'Entreprcnant, of 74
guns each, commanded by Danvctte and
liourhone, arrived at that place on Wo
ihe 25th ult. 'iney had be.;o dilpatchcd
thither, it is said by Lord Hood,:or ionic
fccret icrviccs.
The national commifiioners, apprch en
five of some treachery, forbid all commu
nications with them, and ordered the com
manders and officers to be imnicdidtcly
arretted. They are to be sent to Pai
for examination.
Accounts from Havre, dated Oftobir
26, ttate, that 4 Englifli frigates had been
hoveling within light of the harbour for
some days ; which had naturally excitcd
the fears of the inhabitants. The batte
ries were in excellent condition to protect
the town, and the military force had been
confidcrably augmented.
The Spanilh admiral Borghefe, with a
squadron of 15 fail of the hac, and tince
frigates,_:s at present crtiifing in the lati
tude of Maaeira, in order to convoy a licet
of merchantmen expt-Scd at Vera Cruz,
which has 80 -i.Uiuns of piaiters on board.
The province of Buynos Ayrc# in Spa
nfh America, (übiciibed the furn'of
15 millions of piallres to his Catholic ma
jesty to carry cn the war against France.
The clergy of Brabant carry their plate
to the mint, to support the Emperor in
carrying on the war
Saturday Nov. (j.
Yesterday an account was received from
tke army of his Royal Highnels the Duke
of York, by a Gentleman who left his
head quarters on Sunday last.' His Royal
Highness was then at Cifoir.g. The army
was in the highest health and spirits. The
Prince of w:s doing his
utmolt to bring the French to a
adlion, which there were some hopes of
his being able to acccmpiifh.
Ihe Prince of Cobourg's Head Quar
ters are at Solefms, behind Fandrecis. The
corps which he has left at Bav*>y and at
Barlamount, to oblervc the French on the
other fide of the Sambre, is commanded
by General Clairfait. Another corps is
placed on the right fide of the Sambre,
towards the Somme. This pohtion has
the double advantage, to intercept the
convoys that might be forwarded from
Lisle and Douay to the grand army, and
to prevent General Jourdain from fc;id:t:i
affiftance ro the places in Weft Handets
that may be attacked by the Allies.
It is thought, that in conkquence of
this difpoiition, the Duke of Yoric m now
marching to attack the camp of Cadet
at prtfent reduced to 8,000 men, sad
which cannot receive succours from the
grand Frencli army without General Jour
dain giving battle to the Prince de Co
bourg.
A reinforcement of 80,000 Gerjr»n
and Hannoverians are on their route to till
Netherlands.
The British land forces, horse and foot,
in different parts of the world, amount at <
present to 60,000, and are to beencieaf
ed to 85,000 effective men.
November 13
The report of the French having made
overtures to the Prince de Saxc Cobotirg
for a ceifation of hoitilitirs, ; s mentioned
in several letters si otn Duricis, as well' as
from Tournay,
The Foreign Gazettes received yefler
day, mention the funender us Lauuau.
We have, however reason to believe that
this report, lo far from being the fhtft, rt k
wholly unfounded ; for we underflantl that
the siege cf Landau if. rniivd by ti, Priif.
fians, and is left, to be blockaded only by
the troop 3 under the Prince de Cov.de.
Tiie Prdlians wbo were before that place
are, it is said, gone to bombard Sarre
Louis.
The Paris nev fpapers of the Jth inft.
aflert, that tue i names frigate bai been
carried into Bred.
It is laid that General [uurdon has sent
a detachment of 25,000 men to reinforec
the republican army in Aiface,
*** The length of the Fcrrip: A T £<a>: r
etce/tont a pcjlpcnem.-nt, till in xioro<w, if
this day*s proceedings ;f Gongrrfs.
Cy* The Subfcriftions firth,/ Prper ire
rapidly rncreafing. Upwards ef Five Hun
dred are firuck off daily.
jiJverti/mg favors from tie f '.sn.it m:l
patrons of the PulßcatSm, art r?fpcffn'ty
folichej.fuft Imported,
From Ijohdon, Dublin and Gt.4sGoir,
Ami -io>\ <>[>v."> 1 nt<n .in, by
MATHEW CAREY,
Al No. 118, Market jlrct/,
A Lame and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following
N£V Annual Regilter for 179 2
European Magazine (01 the fir ft fix
months of I 793
Gib'mns decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vo ' s *
Pricftly on matter and i'pirit
on clirilhaniiy
Disney's lile of Dr. Jortin
Itingville's ancient geography
D'Anoi'r* of Guy Joli
M.-mry, a collection of essays
Varreof Pruflia's works
('aim oljJervei— by Mackintosh
Ruflfelj's ancient and mode n Europe
Lnngho ne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly "ill'
Elegant extra&s of natural hi dory
Sangaier and Bviifon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
TailVs Jerutitlem delivered
Sme'lie's tra'flatioc of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadruped*
Buffoo abridged
Hittory of birds
Philips'* history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, i" 3
Curiotities of literature, 3 vol*:.
Whi taker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's hrfto y of Hntdoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
linlay's d. Icriptiun of Kentucky
Present fta'e ot Nova-Scotia
Prelent state ps Hudson's Bay
Preston on ftiatonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's Purvey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kiires of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volnev's ruins of empires
Travels
Vaillaint's travel*, with superb e igravmgs
Downman's infstncy
A.lair-s history of American Indiana
Benington 011 m»terißlifin and imma-en*.H«i
Bei chold's advice to patriotit travelleis
Buildei's magazine
Complete firmsr
Chandon's lite of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and work*;
Grozier's description ot China
Murphy's translation ot lacitus
Godwin on pol-tital justice
Gazetteer ot" France, 3
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's fketcheswf the hiftovy mmnn
Lib ral opinion?, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playlmufe di&ionary
■Reveries of solitude
Smith's tlreory ot" moral sentiment*
Stackhoufc's history of* the bible
Warfon's life of Philip Hd. Sc IHd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wan ley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wall s on the prevention ofdifeafes
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruffia,Poland,&c.
Cox's iravels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grgg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of Hie pra&iee of mid-
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn'* diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mwfcles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qiiincy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's cliemiftry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's difF-'r tat ions
London practice of physic
Bell's surgery
Cbaptal's chemistry.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, accounts da
ted or collected, employers fuired with
ciomeftics, hQufe rooms, boarding and lodging
voted, let or procured—soldier's, mariner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims on the
public ; lharcs in the banks, in the canals, and
the turnpike road : certificates granted by the
f>nblic, and the old and late paper monies ;
notes of hand, bills, bonds and tnorgages, with
or without depo'iis—Bought, fold, or nego
ciated at No. 8, in south Sixth-street, below
Market-ft»ect bv FRANCIS WHITE,
Whotranfa&s bufinef* in the public offi«es for
ccuntry people and others, by virtue of a pow
er ot attorney, or by pcrfonal application.
December 11
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Street's, 4 adjoining the Episcopal burying-
ground,*
r T" , AKES this opportunity of returning his
JL grateful thanks to Ins former employers,
and requeft-ng their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
(hotted notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
Inch as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coathees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor ful key sand chaiis, and haruels
ofevaiy description, in the neatest and newest
fafhio'it now prevailing in the United Stares.
And as he ''.as a quantity of the bed seasoned
wood by him, ai d capital workmen, he has
not the least dou'*t but he will be able to give
fati faction to tho e who pie ale to employ him
H6 has for sale, several carriages almost
finifhed, such as cbachees, an Italian wind for
chair, hung on steel springs, a ligl t phaeton for
one or two horles, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission
Philadelphia, Jan. 6. 1794
ALL persons having any demand againfl
the Estate and EiFe&s of Mrs. MARY
SINDR.EY, widow, late of Frank ford, Ox
ford towiilhip, in the State of Pennsylvania,
deceased; are desired to produce their ac
counts to Jacob Leshek and William Cref.d,
(in Frankford, aforefaid,) Executors and Ad
miniftra'tors of the above in order far fettle
inent. And whoever is indebted to said Kf
tate, &c. are requested to make payment to
the aforefaid Admiuiftrators, on or before the
15th of March, 1794, or they will be dealt
with according to law.
Frankford, Dec. 16,
Stock Brokers
No. 16, Wall-ftrcct, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, bigs leave to of
ftr his ferviccßtO hit friends and others, in the
line oi a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor htm with their bufioefs, may depend
upon having it tranfafted with the utmost fide
lity and difpaich.
Orders from Philadelphia, Ballon, or any
other partot the United Stairc, will be fbri&ly
attanded to. LEONARD BLSECKER.
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookfrller, at the Stone House, in Second
ftreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Of A ts, Sciences, and Mil'ceilaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
Br which
The iXiflerent Sciences nnd Arts >
are digejled into the form of
Diftintft Treaties or Syflrems :
THIS volume contains principles of Levels,
Liberty, Do&rine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
don, Longitude, Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical a.od
Miscellaneous articles, illuilrated with Twew
ty Two Copperplates.
As a number ol families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the subscribers to call or fend for their vo
lume?, that they may be supplied as early as
poifible.
The TiNri volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an imperfed state, some ac
count of the reason of that imperfection should
be i2,iven. On the Bth of September last, the
Publisher had the misfortune of having his
Printing Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the figures, with
which he was printing the tables or lo
garithms, belonging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the necefllty of pub
lifliing the volume without these taeles; but
hopes he shall be able to publish them with the
next volume which is now in considerable for-
wardnefs.
The Publi flier embraces this opportunity of
expressing his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time be takes the li
berty of representing to such-os tire subscribers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necefllty of
punctuality, both in taking up the volumei as
early as poflib.e after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the sub
scribers having got only one, two, three, &t.
volumes, and several volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpaid lays the Publiflier under
very serious embarrafTinent, and deprives him
of the use of many Thoufandsnf Dollars which
at this time would be of very efTential service.
For tUefe reason* the Publisher finds himfelf
under the necefllty of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to thole who
take and pay to the time of publication.
December a*.
A New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by
R. AITKEN,
No. 22, Market jlrcct,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME-
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philadelphia, for promoting Ufcful
Knowledge, Vol. 3. Piice 20/"in boards
(J3" The subscribers are recjuefted to call
as above directed for the 3d vol. where may
b« had, complete setts uniformly printed.
Contents of Voh $d.
1. An essay 011 tbofe enquiries in Natural Phi
losophy, which at present aremoft benefici
al to the United States of North America.
Dr. Nicholas Cot/in,
2. Conjecture* concerning the formation of
the earth, &c. Dr. B. Franklin.
3. A new and curious theory of Light and
Meat. Dr. B. Franklin.
4. Description of the process to be observed
in making large fheetsof paper in the Chi
nese manner, with one smooth furface.
Dr. B. Franklin.
5. Queries and conje&ures relative to Mag
netifin, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
6. Explanation of a singular phenomenon, firft
observed by Dr Franklin, and not fatisfac
torily accounted for. Mr. R. fatterjon.
7. An account of an Earthy Substance found
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls; together with
some remarks on the Falls.
Robert M. D.
8. Observations on the probabilities oi tiie
duration of Human Life, and the progress
of papulation, in the United States of Ame
rica. William Barton, Esq.
9. A letter containing observations made at
Lake Erie, on that lingular phenomenon,
by seamen termed looming.
Andrew Ellicot EJq.
10. An Account of the Sug3ir Maple-Tree
of the United States, and of the methods
of obtaining Sugar from it, together with
obferYatioiis upon the ad vantages both pub
lic and private of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rujti, As. D.
xi. Memoir an the use of the Thermometer
in discovering Banks, Soundings, Sec.
Jonathan Williams, Esq.
12. An Account of the most effectual means
of preventing the deleterious confequenccs
of the bite of the Crotalus Horridm, or Rat
tle Snake. Benjamin Smith Barton, M. D.
x 3» Magnetic Observations, made at Ihe Uni
versity of Cambridge, (Maflachufetts.)
Dr. S. Wxllia ns.
14. Accurate determination of the right af
certiion and declination of Bootes, and the
Pole Star. Andrew Ellicott, Esq.
15. Act omit of several Houses in Philadelphia,
struck with Lightning, on June 7th, 1789.
David Rittenhoufe, Esq.
x 6. An Account of the effedts of a stroke of
Lightning on a Houle furnifhed with two
Conductors. Bavid Rittenhoufe, And Francis
Hopkinfon, Efqrs.
17. Experments and Observations on Evapo
ration in cold Air. C. Wiflar, M. D.
18. Postscript to Mr. Barton's Letter, te
Dr. Rittenhon'e, of the 17, of March, 1791.
19. New Notation of Mtafic.
«"3 1 '*
t&ftf.
Office,
Mr. R. PatterJon.
20. Observations on the Theorv of Water
Mills, See. W. Waring.
19. Astronomical Observations.
David Rittenhoufe.
20. A letter relative to a method of finding
the sum of the several powers of the Sines,
■fire. David Rittcnhoufe, Esq.
Si. Index Flo rae Lancaftrienfis.
Henrico Muhlenberg, D. D.
22. Investigation of the power of Dr. Bar
ker's Mill, as improved by Jsoes Rumfey,
with a defcriptioi) of the mill. W. Waring.
23. A Thermometvical Journal of the tem
perature of the Atmqfphere and Sea, on a
voyage to and from with explana
tory observations thereon.
Jonathan WiHiams, Esq.
24. Fi:ft memoir of observations on the plants
denominated Cryptogamick.
M. Dt Btauvois.
25. A letter, containing observations on the
ancient works of Arr, the Native Inhabi
tants, &c. of the Western Country.
Major Jonathan Htart.
26. An account of some of the principal dies
employed by the North American Indians.
Extracted by the late Mr. Hugh Martin.
17. An account of the beneficial effects of the
Cassia Chamaecrifla in recruiting worn-out
lauds, and in Inrichfing such as are natural
ly poor ; together with a botanical descrip
tion of the plant.
James Grcehway of Virginia.
28. An account of* a hill on the borders of
North Carolina, supposed to have been a
volcano, in a letter from a Continental of
ficer, to Dr. Jf. Greenway % Virginia.
29. An Accountof a poisonous plant, grow
ing spontaneously in the fooHiem part of
Virginia. Extracted from a paper by
Dr. James Creenu>a\ y Virginia.
30. Description of a Machine for me a faring a
ship's way. Francis Hspkinfon. Kfq.
31. An Inquiry into the question, whether the
Apis Mellifica, or true Honey-Bee, is a na
tive of America. Benjamin Smith R*nen % M.D.
32. An Account of a Comet.
David Rilienhoufe, FJq.
33. Cadmus or a Treat'feon the Elements of
Written Language, illustrating, by a Philo
sophical division of Speech, Hie power of
each character, thereby mutually fixing the
Orthography and Orthoepy. With an EflV 1
on the mode of teaching the Deaf, or SwiJ 1
SftW'tlJ.
znd consequently t Durob to fjwak, by W».
Thornton, M. D. Honored with the Ma
gellanic Gold Medal, by the Philofvphica]
Society, in December, 1792 N. ft.
Ctdtnus is printed in a fine 8. vo). and fold
by the Publisher hereof.
34. Obfervationt on the Theory of Water-
IV. tr<nn S .
35. An Improvement on Metalic
or Lightning rods. Afr* Robert Patlcrjon.
Mills.
Honored with the Magellanic Premium, by
an Award of the Society in December 1792.
36. An easy and expeditious method of dis
sipating the noxious Vapour commonly
found in Wells and other subterraneous
places. Lbcnezer Robin/on, ffq.
37. A method of draining Ponds in level
.7# 'h
38. Observations on the fevcrityof the win
grounds.
ter, 1779, *783* R ev - Matthew IVi/Jou.
39. A Description of a new Standard for
Weights and Measures; io a letter from
Mr. John Cooke, ofTipperary in Ireland.
40, Description of a Spring-Block., defigoed
to aflift a Veflel in failing* Francis Hopkin-
fo/ty EJq. Honored with the Magellanic
Gold Medal, by an Award of the Society
in December 1790.
December 20.
ADVERTISEMENT
FOR the benefit of thole who maybe con
cerned it may not be improper to notice,
that the United States, by their Ast ofthe lath
of February 1793, ordered that all Claims of
the description cberein mentioned, and which
originated previous to the 4th of March 1789:
be profented at tbe Treasury on or before the
firft day of May 1 otherwise they will
44 for ever thereafter, be barred, and exclu
-44 ded from settlement or allowance." And
as there may be several Creditors ofthe Uni
ted States, holding Certificates or other Se
curities, which form a part of the Domestic
Debt, and who wish to fubferibe to the Loan,
they are reminded that the term for receiving
I lubfcriptions at the Treasury, is by the Ast of
I tbe United States, parted the lecond of March
last, extended to the last day of June, 1794*
The following is an extaft from tbe Ast of
Limitation above referred to :
Section I. 44 Be it enacted by the Senate
and House of Representatives of the United
States of America, in Congress altembled—
Thpt all claims upon the United States, for
Services or Supplier, or for other cause, mat
ter or thing, furnilhed or done, previous to
the 4th day of March 1789, whether founded
upon Certificates, or other written documents
from Public Officers or otherwV/e, which have
not already been barred by any Ast of Limi
tation, and which (hall not be presented at
the Treasury before the firft d»« «f May l ?94»
shall for ever after be barred and preicriucu
from settlement or allowance : Provided,
that nothing herein contained, shall be con
st' ued to atffcft Loan-Office Certificates, Cer
tificates of Final Settlements, Indents of lri
tereft, Balances entered in the books of the
regifterof the treasury commonly called regis
tered certificates,loans of monies obtained in
foreign countries, or certificates illued pu ln
ant to the Ast, intitied 44 An Ast, making pro
vision for the Debt ofthe United States.
ADVERTISEMENT.
New-Jiks*y, > T>Y virtue of a Writ to me
Suffcx County. fl\ $ J3 diretted, issued out of
the High Court oi Chancery of New-Jersey,
the i-uit of William Shipley againit John Miug
and others; I (hall expose to sale at Publia Ven
due, on the sixth day of February next, between
the hours of Twelve and Five in the Afrernoota
of the lame day, on the Premises, the following
described Tract of Land, x with its appurtenances
firuate in the Township of Oxford and County
of SufTex, beginning at a Chefnut Oak Tree, cor
ner of Daniel Cox's land, and (landing i,', the
line of a former fu; v ey made to Thomas Steven,
foo, being marked with the letter B. and thence
extending along Cnxe's line (firft) (outh fifty de
grees weft fifty-five chifns and feverity-five links
to a Black Oak Tre#corner of Joseph Shippeo's
land (second) south nine degrees and fifteen mi
nutes, weft ninety chains and sixty five links ro
a forkod White Oak Tree, marked with the let
ters P and B another of the said Shippen'.s cor
ners (third) thence north eighty degrees, east one
hundred and forty-fivr chains, to a post on the
fontherly fide of Paquaofte-River, being alio a
corner of John Reading's land (fourth) thence
north thirty-nine degrees weft, one hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place of beginning
•ontaining nine hundred and thirty acres with
the usual allowance for road* and high ways—
The fame Premises are within eight miles of the
River Delaware, and there is thereon a conveni
ent Grift Mill with two pair of Stones—a Saw
Milt in good repair, with afuffceient ftrcam of
water for their ufc—a Dwelling Houfc, Store
House, and several small buildings.
MARK THOMPSON,Sheriff.
Dated sad day ot July, 1793.
E. Oswald,
No. 156, Market-Street, South,
A T the requeit of a number of friend?,
* proposes pubH(hing The Independent
Gazetteer, twice a week, viz Wedncidavs
and Saturdays—To commence in January next,
If fufficient encoeragement offer?
It will be pnblifhed on Paper aad Types
equal to irs p-efent appeaiance. The U,b
fcription 3± dollar? per ann.
Advertilement# not exceeding a fnware,
will be iuferted 4 times for 1 dollar—every
continuance one fifth of a dollar. Tho'e ex
ceeding a fcjuare, in th« fame proportion.
PHILADELPHIA
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
eod2w.