EVENING advertiser.
58 of Vol. V.]
[No.
PRICE CURRENT. Jills, a, -DtU.ioCts
»»* — Dollars too Cenis each Ditto pr cafe 50
— Swct-t, be ft, in fla(ks,pr.box 10 £
, PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 25, 1794. Di.to balkcls, n bpttlc. 10
n 7 Spermaceti pr. gall. 4*
A - Train per barrel. 10 <51
Dlls.Cts. Dili, Ct 1 Wtiaie 2c or.
MCHORS pr.lb. 7 10 „ _ 0 3.
p Allum, Enjlifh, pr.cwt. 433 ' ort< j r P*** ca ' 53^
Di.to, Roch pr. Ib. t, London, pr.doz ,6c
Afhrs, pot, per ton, no —American d.tto bot.incl. .8,
P«'l, '34 140 7»* *L h, n Pr- bbL . , 173
Arra. k pr. gall. >33 1,6 Pork . Burlingion, pe, barrel, i S
Brandy, common, 100 „ —Lower county
C ™' lc '3° 1 4 r - r~ i. n, ,
»ra,ilmo,pr..on. Jo Albany pr. buihel ,
Brick,, pr. M. 4 7 P r - lb '
•read, (hip, pr.cwt. , 67 P,mtnto lf
Ditto, pilot 5 Raisins, best, pr. keg 7
Ditto, finnll water, per keg 36 40 Ditto pr.jar 3 33
Beer, American, in bottles, Ditto pr. box 333
pr.doz. bottles included, 1 74 Rice pr.cwt. 3 2c
Ditto pr. barrel, 6 R-ofin pr. barrel 2yt
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 20 Rum, Jamaica,pr. gallon lit
• -New England »(> 14 Antigua 1
— r-Oak 14 16 Windward 8£
—Merchantable pine 20 24 Barbadoes 87
-Sap, do. 10 67 Country, N. E. 6c
~ Mahogany, petfoot 1 ° Salt petrc, pr. cwt. 14 33
The aboveare the (hallop prices, Saffafras pr. ton 6 8
tor the yard price, add 1 dol- Shot ditto 140 14!
lar 33 cents per 1000. Steel, German pr. lb. 9
Brimstone in rolls, pr.cwt. 2 Engli fh,bliftered, pr. cwt. 10
Bfcf, Boston, per barrel JO ji American pr. ton 213 33
• Country ditto 9 10 Crowley's pr. faggot 10 67
Fresh, per cwt. 3.J33 4 na^c lO °t p r - lb. 20 4?
Butter pr.lb. 25 Soap, Brown perlb. f>
in kegs 15 18 White 8
Candles, Sperm. pr.lb. 48 ~~—C-aftile ji
—Wax 53 36 Starch 7
Myrtle Wax 18 Snuff pr. doz. hot. 4 56c
— --Mould, tallow 16 Spcrmaceii, refined, pr.lb. 48
— —Dipped I-! Sailcloth, Englilh,No.i,pr. vard, 4c
Cheese, English, pr. lb. 25 Boston, No. I. ditto 36
—Country 10 12 No. 11. o 5
Chocolatc tfi 18 Sugai Lump, pr.lb 21
Cinnamon a 40 2 67 Loaf, single refined 22
Cloves 1 3o Ditto, double do. 33
Cocoa pr. cwt. 10 it IlavSnnah, white 12 14
Coffee pr.lb. 16 Dittr>, browt\ 10 11
Coal pr. bushel *4 33 Muscovado, pr. cwt, 9 12
Copperas pr.cwt. 1 6 Spirits Turpentine pr. gallon 27
Cordage, American, per cwt. 9 >o Salt, Allum pf. bushel 80
Cptton pr.lb. 2 7 3" Liverpool 100
m Crurints *2 _ Cadiz 80
Duck, Rutin, pr. pie«e 14 Lisbon 8c
-J!","? . .0 20 Shp W. O. frames p.ton, to
Dntetj fail duck, *8 20 oiiTo Live 0--k* 2a
Feather® pr. lb. 5 C Ditto red cedar, per foot 37 45
'lax ditto 11 12 Shingles,lß inch, per M. 333 367
Flaxfeed pr. bu(h. 8° 9 : Ditto a feel % 6 50 6
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel 6 Ditto 3 fee:, drefled, 13
Common, 5 Staves, Pipe pi. 1000 32
Bur niddlings, belt 5 White Oak hoglhead, 20 33
Meal, Indian * 5 2 Red Oak do. ig -o
-ditto Rye, 3 67 Leogan 21 33
Shfp-ftuff pr. cwt. 1 40 x 67 Barrel 16
Fustic pr. ton, 20 Heading 33
| Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 466 ski "». Otter, best pr. piece 465
Do. Pr gall. 8s 9° nks 20 40
Glue, pr.cwt. to 1133 g r e y 4 o Bc.
♦ Ginger, white race, perlb. 12 Ditto red 120
Ditto, common 8 ™ [ " lin# *4 *
Ditto, ground pr.lb. *c F'.lhers 33 67
Gmfcng, »o Bears 3
Gunpowder,cannon, pr. q.cafk, 373 4 Racoons 27 60
Ditto, fine glazed 4 Mulk-rats 11 20
Grain, Wheat pr. bufti 100 lic Braver, pr. lb. 67 133
Rye 7c Deer, in hair 20 30
— Oats 35 Tar,N. Jcrfcy, 24 gal. p. bbl. 1
— - Indian corn 56 ——Carolina, 32 gall. 2
'Barley » 1 to Turpentine pi.bbl. f 2
1 Bell (helled pr. lb. 7 Tobacco, J. River, best jooib. 433
-■ -Buckwheat, per bulh. 40 inferior 3 33
imported, pr. ton, 160 * A
American, pr. lb. 5 7 Rappahannock ? 33
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 Coloured Maryland, 533 8
Hides, raw pr.lb. 9 Dark », r 84°
Hops 13 Long-leaf 2 40
Hoglhead hoops, pr. M. 15 Eaftern-ftiore 2 2 93
. . 11 c Carolina,new 27 3
Indigo, French perlb. 1 67 ol<J «
-Carolina t 180 Tea, Hyson pr. Ib. 93 128
Iron., fad pr. ton, 13333 Hvfonfk n, .3 60
Iron, Callings pr. cwt. , 4 Souchong, ,0 03
= B,r pr ion, 8, 66 __ c |
P'S -5 Bohea, 93 36
Sheet *73 33 Tallow, refined, perlb. 9
Nail rods 100 33 -j-jn p r j- g 7
Junk, pr. cwt. 4 5 Verdigrcafe pr. lb. 60
Lard, hogs pr. lb. Vermillion, do. 132 167
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 5 33 5 6/ Varnish, per gallon 33 37
in bars - 7 Wax, Bees pr.lb. 25 27
w^ uc g 7 Whale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 30
Leather, foal, pr.lb. 17 20 Wine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 176 226
3 Lignum vitae pr. ton, 7 £•?_ ~ 120 *26
Logwood 30 Tenenffe.pr. gallon 63
Mace pr.lb. 9 £ a y al
Mackarel, bell pr.bbl. 9 Port pr. pipe >13 33
second quality 4 : Ditto in bottles, pr.doz. 4
Madder, best pr. lb. 16 2c Claret 46
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, S 33 267 Sherry pr.gall. 90 1 20
Mast spars ditto 33 Malaga 77 80
Molalfes pr.gall. 33 4« ft , . COURSE OF EXCHANGt
Mustard per. lb. 87 ° n London, at 30 days, per £ .100 ftcrl. 466 J
flour, in bottles, pr.dor. 1 20 at 60 days 463 |
Kails, BJ. iod.i%d. and »04. pr.lb. 10 J at 90 oays 461
Nutmegs pr. lb. J 8 Amftcrdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, 42
Oil, Linseed, pr. gall. 5.5 ~ ?° da y*- 4°
Government bills, drawn at 10 days
v fight, at 42c per guilder.
of tfje Ifltti feii iJMaiili
A N D
Saturday, January 25, 175)4.
For the Gazette of the United States.
ACCOUNT of the FACTORY at
PATERSON, NEW-JERSEY.
i Letter to a gentleman in this City.
Paterfon, January 16, 1794.
Dear Sir,
In anfv/er to your enquiry refpeiting tlie
present situation of the Faftorv here, and
the progress made in conftrufting the cot
ton-mill, for water spinning, and the canal
• designed to bring the water on the wheel,
&c. I have to observe to you, that the
cotton-mill is now under cover—the inside
i carpenter work nearly cumpleatcd—the
| large water-wheel is finiihed—and that e
, very part of the building (to accommo
date eight drums that turn 768 spindles,
together with all the neceflary machinery
for preparing the cotton for spinning)
may be calculated on, as out of hand bv
the fiift of May. At that period two
drums may be fafely calculated on as
ready for work ; and that the remaining
fix drums, will be got ready fcr use, as
fact as children can be taught to perform
the working them to advantage.
The mill anil machinery neceflary for
commencing spinning by water, may there
fore fafcly be calculated on as ready for be
ing pnt in operation by May day. As to
the Canal, the part on the rock, designed
to take the water from the natural bed of
the river, is fioifhed, and die flocd gates
ercdied, so at entirely to com
mand the waters of the Paffaick, in
the summer season. The dam across the
gully, below the rock, is also finiihed
and the canal from thence to the mill is in
such a state of forwardnefs as to juftify
very sanguine expectations of its being
compleated in all April; should the spring
prove favorable for working abroad. At
any rate, there seems 110 reason to doubt,
but that the mill will be in work, with
200 spindles, in all the month of May—
and still less reason to doubt of the machi
nery's being conftrufted on the most ap
proved plan ; as the carding, drawing and
roving machines, for preparing cotton for
■ water spinning, are now actually at work,
by means of two horses ; —the rovings
they make are spun into excellent yarns on
mules—of which two are in constant work
for account of the Society. There can
therefore be no reason to doubt the know
ledge or abilities of Mr. M. who superin
tended this Branch. He has heretofore
labored under great embarrafiinents for
want of able mechanics ; but these diffi
culties are daily leflening ; as well from
the arrival of mechanics and machine
makers from Europe, as from those for
merly employed by him, having now
made themselves matters of the different
branches in which he has instructed them.
The completing the machinery forthe mill
is therefore rendered easy and sure ; there
can be no doubt of having the best of ma
chines ready as fact as hands can be taught
to work them. The work which this mill
is calculated to turn out, weekly, will
juftify the most sanguine expectations that
those manufacturers who are daily flock
ing to this free country from the defpo
tifm of Europe, will consider Paterfon as
the mofteligibleplaceforthem tocommence
business a new-that the manufafturesof cot
ton goods of differentkinds.madeby private
adventurers, on their own accounts, will
furnilh a ready market for all the yarns
made at the fattory. This, with the
command of water which the focicty will
have fccured by means of their canal and
dam, and the great number of mill feats
which they may calculate to fell, must in
duce manufacturers of every difcription
to fix themselves here in preference to any
other part of the continent. The fa!e6 of
house lots will be encreafed, and the funds
of the society for active operations there
by augmented; and the expectations which
the public seem to haveformed from fixing
the fa&ory here in some mealure realised.
To convince you this is not all ideal,
I can allure you that a number of prin-
[Whole No. 45)6.]
tcrs, &c. who have lately arrived on this
continent from England and Ireland, have
formed themselves into a company, for the
pnrpofe of bleaching and printing calicoes
and chintz here—and are a&ually at work
with two tables. They perform every
part of the work themselves—suck aj
drawing, cutting, printing, bkrachl n&c.
T hey expect to go very largely into this
business in the fpiing. Another company
have commenced the manllfaflure of Hea
vy Cotton Goods—and a third company
are forming for the msnufafluring of tJo
fcry on an extensive frale; fukahle build
ings being already ere&ed on the lands of
the focicty to accommodate them. Should
these. fuccecd, it will hold out additional
inducements to other adventurers to fix
themfelve6 here ; and thereby greatly pro
mote the views of the stockholders j as
well as augment their funds, extend their
operations and encreafe their intertft*
1 hat this may be the desirable issue of the
business, is the ardent wish of
Dear Sir,
Your mod obedient,
Humble Servant.
P. S. Sundry house lots have beert
already fold, and valuable buildings erect
ed on them. It is expedited that many
applications for house lots will be nude
next spring—and that the building < f
houses on private account will rapidly
increase.
* The whole is under the management r f
*'' 7 - Colt, a gentleman every <uray. miclifi*
ed fur the business, and who arf.vers the
mojl sanguine expectations of the Direclori
—and lam convinced ihat the lujnrfs null
have every advantage, from his ajjiduity
and care, of an individual's concern.
NEW-YORK, J a „, 22,
We are extremely happy to inform the
public, that the Amboy pafTage boat,
which left this city the 26111 of December
last, and which was fa id to have been lcil
on Long-Iflatid, was, after having been
eleven days at sea, drove into Martha's
Vineyard, after experiencing the gieateft
imaginable distress, both for the want of
provi (ions, as well as from bad weather,
which obliged them to cut away her mat
The lives of all, however, (one child ex
cepted) have been providentially preser
ved This grateful intelligence comes
by Captain White, from St. Thomas's,
who put in at Martha's Vineyard, in dis
tress, for v. ant of provisions—He bro't
with him all the paflengcrs of the Am
boy boat.
Pennfytvania Hcfpitui Ift Mo. 15,
THE Contributors are requested to
meet at the Hospital on qd day' ti c 2Sth
inft. at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, to ex
amine a ground plan, with fevcril esti
mates of the buildings, which are pVio
fed to be extended to accommodate a
greater number of Lunatic Patiel ts, and
for other uses. Also to d'.'t f* mine the
propriety of building the enluing i"eaf>-,n.
By orch't of a bout ti of Hfn na a t'vs.
SAMUF.L COATF.S, Clerk.
iV. B. Tht Prinhrs of the A'ezvs-Pa
pers in this City, ivill -lliy A* Cmtrila
tors, ly inferring the ain't .
Op* The Sibfcriptions far this Paper ere
rapidly enerenfirg. Upwards of Five Hun
dred arejlr uck. off daily.
Adveftifing favors from the friends and
patrons of the Publication, rre rei r fiefi, r ti''t
foMted. ' JI J " J
TO BE SOLD,
A lnrgc elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN au e - i"i *lp fituatioi',—;,!lb a Country Cent
within 6 miles of the City, niHi 9 :irin i>f
land, or 42 acres of land :,.d tneadnv t:
tioufe is <• bymany it: tie vie ii'iy
of tile cit>, in (ir-e or en,
For term* app'y to the printer.
January '23.
■ < J -wrisi}?nent.
n.&th—tl"CONGRESS.
of R.-fi ijiaijiroet.
Jf^j
January 16.
Iti comn:'::'irr <?f tb) wbofe, on fit of
tt-j Sccn-Htry of Mat?* r.-int:ve L> s.-.v crm
wrrnit sni'TC'-wf: of this c >i<r.'.'>y, zi f•
rrr'n pii: tofts.
Mr. Nicholas's obftrvations concluded
HAVING (hewn, that the adtuai (late
of our comn»t"ce is by no means the molt
beneficial, as f.ir a* navigation is. concern
ed, I will proceed toeonfider the benefits
derived from the confamption of those
K iropian m inufidtures, which form the
principal part, of tire (tores of American
—'and here it mav fafely be fa id, that na
tic:ir.l policy by no mean 6 juftifics the al
in >:l exclulive preference, given to those
of Great B itain. It is not always true,
that the comrrodity which is bought for
lead money is the bed bargain, for the
means of payment form an important con
fi deration i.i all tra flick, and accommoda-
lions in it, may more than counterbalance
an inequality of price. If one man wiil
receive an article in exchange which you
can fell to no other, it will certainly be a
fimiig to deal with him, at a high ad
vance on hb property. I there are conn- j
tries which would become great consum
er .of American produce, on the terms
of reciprocal coivfurnption, and we find a
difficulty, as b often the cafe, in vending
that produce, bit not of gieit national
importance to excite those acts, which are
tp become the foundation of the connec
tion, even if in'the fir!t instance, it is to
be attended with inconvenience and loss.
France may be made a connection of this
fort ; (he is at tHil time, aimoft if not
quite, on a footing with Great Britain in
the cor.fumptiun of American products,
and every hand which (hall receive em
ployment from us, will add to her wants.
We are told that it is cf no !efs import
ance to us, to find a country which can
supply usadvantageoully, than one which
will consume our product ions, and that
as commerce b uo longer carried on bv
barter, it is no lew beneficial, to fell in
one country and buy in. another, than if
we could compleat the exchange in the
fame country. This might be true if yonr
pruduction was limited, and the demand
lor it certain, but with a greatly improv
ing agriculture, and some risque nv our
markets, trie object b important. Great
Britain being the faStory of those things
which would make her moil dependent 011
the agricultural irttereft, and the natiopa!
wealth being probably at the greatest
height, there is no expectation that her
consumption will enereafe. On the other
hand, a« labour is now to receive its direc
tion in France, to the manufacturing arts
f-ifar as concerns America, you will take
from the agricultural strength, a large
class of people, and by that means create
a dependance on you, at lead to the a
mount of their own consumption, and the
wealth you will dilFufe, will give ability
. tothoufnnds who are now too poor to bid
fijr your commodities. Nor is it proba
ble, that you will purchase this important
benefit,on very disadvantageous terms, for
it is .agreed on all hands,that many import
ant ;r »t. are well understood there, & that
labour, which forms the principal part of
t'u. coit 1-• mod articles, is considerably
cheaper ii France, than in England.
Another very important operation, of a
discrimination in favor of France, will be
that by encouraging liberal induftrv, you
may put an end to some practices, which
in the exiltingftate of confumptiongreatly
depreciates our commodities, I mean the
public provision made in granaries, and
the supply from them in times of scarcity
whicti destroy the competition that raises
every thing to its jult value. Different
confcquences have been foretold, as likely
to rcfult from those measures, to which I
(hall give a (hort examination. We are
told that the preference long since given
by our laws, has been equal to a prohibi
tion of British veflels, and that to the ex
tent to which it has gone, the bed effects
have been produced. To secure this ope
ration from a recent attack, and at the
famr time to extend it to some branches
of trade, to which its principle would e
qually extend, is the objedt of the marine
resolutions. We have no reason to appre
hend bad confcquences, from an action
which has hitherto had good confequen
cci. As to the increased duties on manu
fadtutc#, I think the profpeA in no -vay
threatening, for if there should be found
no count ly to supply our wants on better
term-, the diminution of cor.sumption
will be only in proportion to the duty.—
This can be by no means alarming, con
fide red as the worst confequenee of the
meafhre to men with whom the irnpoll is
the favourite mode of collecting the reve
nue, at a time when the public wants are
equal to any poflible produce. If there
(hall be found a competitor with Great-
Biitain fur our consumption, the great
objedt will be attained, as it must be ac
companied by acort efponding confumpti
-011 of American produdtiona. But we
arc told that there will be a conflidt of
commercial regulations be I ween this coun
try and Great Britain, and that the con
sequence will be, the loss of the market
(lie affords us. The probable consequen
ces of such a conflict will belt determine
whether it is to be expeftcd,asit will com
mence on her part as well as ours, with a
view to confequencec. The danger which
(lie can alone apprehend, is the loss of the
market for her manufadtures, and to obvi
ate this, it would be absurd to widen the
breach between us, as that would tend in
a diredt propoition, to the eltabhfhment
of unfriendly habits and manufadtures, ei
ther here or in other countries, which
would rival her ow:i. If however, the
ultimate advantage would juft-.Fv such mea
sures, die immediate distress of her peo
p'e, would forbid it. The American
trade muit be the means of diltributing
bread to several hundred thousand persons
vrhofe occupation would be wholly ended
with the trade, and the government i 3 by
no means in a situation to bear their dif-
content,
Their navigation and manufa&ures draw
many important ingredients from Ameri
ca which would be loft to them. The cre
ditors of the people of Amcrica to an
immense amount wjuld be deprived of the
remittances which depend on a friendly
intercourse. Oil the whole it would add
to the disorders of the government among
those who, perhaps, have heretofore con
tributed to its support, without gratifying
thing but an arrogant resentment:
but we are told that our own citizens
would be equal lufteters and are more to
be injured by being stopped in a career of
rapid improvement: it will be hard to an
ticipate any real misfortune to America,
in such a contest, unless the temporary
loss of indigencies which are by no means
lieceflary, can be so called. The consump
tion of Great-Britain is, according to the
most friendly calculation not more than
one third of our purchases from her, and
therefore the national wealth, independ
ent of the gratification of our appetites,
will leceife an immense addition and a
vast fund will be procured to make lading
and valuable improvements which would
be'degraded by compaiifon with the gew
gaws of a day. It is to be remarked, that
the diminution of our exports would be
divided among large dalles of people,and
in all cases forms a deduction from the an
nual incomeratherthan a total loss: this will
result from the various objects of Ameri
can industry and the divilion of the mar
kets of its produce. This forms an im
portant difference between America and
Great-Britain, in an estimate ot the ef
fects of a rupture between the two coun
tries. In my opinion the habits of the
southern dates are such as to require the
controul which is said to be the conse
quence of these measures ; under the fa
cility offered by the modes of trade before
spoken of and the credit which is said to
be so beneficial; they have not only in
volved themfejves in debt, but have con
trasted habits which with the power of
gratification mud always keep them so.
We did hope that the adminidration of
justice would have corrected the evil, but
we now find that it cannot be corrected
but by entire changes ; it is founded in
the policy of the merchant himfelf and
this circumstance is enough to present to
the minds of the committee a long train
of dependent mifchiefs; it is a fact sup
ported by the best evidence, that our mer
chants who get their goods from the ma
nufacturer pays as much for them as the
(hopkeeper who buys at Baltimore or Phi
ladelphia, this is one of the consequences
of the want of credit which always will
follow a reliance on collection from far
mer, and there caa be no doubt that the
merchant is indemnified for his disgrace,
as well as his advance. The result of the
whole train of indulgence is, that our
goods are bought at an advance from a
half to one fourth of what they could be
afforded for in -cacti sales; nor does the
miljUief stop here, it brings a subjection
which materially affects the sale of our
■produce. I do believe myfelf, that the
war with Great-Britain did not bring half
the ir.ifcKief on us that their credit has,
and'l very much suspect a credit for con
sumption will always be found equally
mischievous ; it by no means resembles
money loans as is insinuated by the gen
tleman from South Carolina, by freeing a
man's own resources for any other use ;
it is certain that there is no other fafe re
gulation of a farmer's expences than his
income, and experience every day proves
that when so regulated they always fall
(hort of the income and that when they
depend on credit they always exceed it,
and thereby fubjeft future revenue; lef-
fening the importation of foreign manu
factures will increase our household fa
bricks which experience has proved to be
highly profitable as the labor is done by a
part of the community of little power in
any other application. Regular efforts in
this way have been in my country certain
ly productive of independence.
It is acknowledged that we may derive
great advantages from France in our com
merce but it is said they (hould be secured
by treaty, and we (hould not pay before
hand for them. If advantages are to be
drawn by treaty from foreign nations, to
enable the executive to procure them we
mult advance the impost beyond the re
venue standard or they will have nothing
to give in exchange ; will gentlemen agree
to involve France in this measure indiscri
minately when w« have already a commer-
cial treaty with her, which was concomi
tant with that treaty which gave us inde
pendence J will they under such proofs of
friendlinefs and while they are laboring
under a revolution that must strengthen
our connexion, fliew diflruft of their jus
tice when the diftin&ion now proposed
may give them a knowledge of those ad
vantages they may derive from our trade,
and thereby make them more eager for a
permanent contradl; it will be always in
our power when we find ourselves deceiv
ed, to restore the equality with Great-
Britain. We are asked what will bccome
of our revenue under such an establishment ?
the answer is obvious from my former ob
fervations, if the consumption is reduced
only bv means of revenue, the revenue will
encreafe ; if it is Jeflened by competition
it will not be diminilhed, for the present
rates will continue on all foreign goods,
and we (hall be better able to pay from
the improvement of our foreign markets ;
but if there Ihould be a diminution with
out lefiening the power of the people to
pay, what mifchief will there be—every
body understands that the people pay the
revenue altho' it is colle&ed by custom
house officers, and there is reason to be
lieve, that the expence of collection is
greater in that way than any other, as
there is not only the apparent expence
but a secret compensation to the merchants
for advancing it.
But we are told, that we are including
countries, in the general description, which
are our best customers—Spain, Portugal,
the Hanfe towns and Denmark. It will
be found, that they are little within the
reach of the proportions, not being car
riers, and very little manufacturers of the
articles to be taxed. It will be in the
power of the Legislature to'fave them, in
tilling up the blanks, but this is not in
tended to shut out any nation, which
chufes to trade with us on liberal terms,
and if we are latisfied with our footing in
their trade, there is no doubt, but we can
secure it by treaty ; they' will not com
plain of our taking away benefits, which
they may refu'me at any time. We are
told that this business is merely commer
cial; and that we should not think of our
political relations to Great Britain ; but
in my opinion, mod of our grievances
have commercial objects, and therefore
are to be remedied by commercial resist
ance ; if you take away what is contend
ed fcr,conteft must end. The Indian war
and the AJgerine attack, have both com
mercial views, or Great-Britain must stand
without excuse, for instigating the most
horrid cruelties. I consider, however, the
proportions before yoti, as the strongest
weapon America pofTefTes, and the most
likely to restore her to all her rights poli
tical and commercial, and I trust I have
(hewn, that the means will have a benefi
cial effect, if they (hould fail as a remedy
with refpeft to Great-Britain.
[Delatt to le continued.']
From the Philadelphia Garutlc.
Mr. Brown,
Nothing cen be mare displeasing to a
lover of truth, than the pains which are
taken to imprefj the American public
with falfe ideas of the present fit nation of
France. Of this, the representation of
French affairs, said to have been brought
by Captain Culver, commander of the ad
vice boat lately arrived from Havre-de-
Grace, is an example.
The account really brought by Capt.
Culver, pr:fents a scene diftionorablc to
human nature.
He states, that from the vigilant seve
rity of government, a spirit of mutual dil
tri'.ft is predominant among the citizens
of Paris. That every man is afraid of his
neighbor. That executions are so frequent
as to have ceased to excite curiosity. Not
a day passing without some victims of the
guillotine more or fewer. 1 hat the place
where it stands is ahnoft continually wet
with human gore. That the head oj a
man seems to be of little more naltje than that
of a chicken. And as a proof of the flight
nefs of the causes which involve the facvi
fice of life, he mentions the instance of a
woman, who, having on her finger a ring
with apur de lis, was allied why (he con
tinued to wear it, to which replying that
(he had worn it for twenty years, and in
better times than theprefent—the the day
following fuffered death by the guillotine.
In relation to the death of the Queen,
to which he was a witness, he mentions,
that as (he went along to the place of ex
ecution, (he was reviled and abused (chief
ly by women of the wofft appearance) ia
the most obfeene and (hocking manner—
all which (he bore with composure and
dignity ; which (he continued to exhibit
to the last fatal moment.
To crown the detail of attrocities, Cap
tain Culver adds, that every method i»
taken to debauch and debase the mind of
the young dauphin, a child of seven or
eight years old, and that among the expe
dients for that purpose, hi? is kept m a
state of almofl constant intoxication.
A LOVER OF TRUTH,
Foreign Intelligence.
STRASBOURG, Nov. 6.
The National Commissioners, it 18 said,
have discovered a~depot of 14 millions of
livres in specie, made for the purpose of
corrupting Strasbourg, and the department
of the Lower Rhine.
Several domiciliary visits were made thi»
evening, which have produced a great
number of arrests. The revolutionary
army parade the street night and day.
Saint Just is making use of every endea
vor to put the army that covers this for
trefs on the most refpe&able footing. His
repeated representations to the committee
of public fafety, have procured a large
supply of heavy cannon, with a reinforce
vment of 3000 men belonging to the artil-
Lacotle, the other National Commis
sioner, is in this city, where he has adopted
every measure neceflary to induce the in
habitants to make a vigorous defence*
Yesterday he visited the Popular Society
of Stralbourg, in which he stated the
means he had 11 fed to supply the army
with those necessaries which they had loft
at Weiifembourg.
As a measure of general fafety, 80
priests, and several other fufpetted perfor.s,
have been Tent from Stralbov.rg to Befaq
con. Near 100 women have also been
sent away, because, it is supposed, that the
Combined Armies mean to attempt the
blockade of Strafbnurg.
LONDON, November 13
The, veteran Luckner, after his dismis
sion from the army, wished to end his life
in retirement; but 4o this there exists an
obstacle of which he had no conception,
The pofieflion of wealth is an unpardona
ble crime with the Sans Culottes j and as
he has grown rich by the profits of a con
trast he long held, for supplying the
French army with horses, this brave offi
cer, who not long ago was acquitted of all
malrerfation, and permitted to retire where
he thought fit, is now in confinement.
As he has a large estate in Germany, it
seems a want of forefight that he did not
retire thither.
All the BiitifK merchants Bpurieaux
have been arrcfted; each 19 abnfincd to a
separate room, with liberry to ua'fk in the
day time in a large garden, set ;>part for
the purpose. Seals have been placed on
their papers.
%From the London Gazette*
WHITEHALL, Nov. 12
Bv a difpatcli from the Earl of Yar
mouth, dated the 28th of OMober, it ap
pears, that on the 26th ot that month, the
right wing of the enemy was completely
routed, * r :th the loss of fourteen cannon,
a great quantity of military itores, two
howitzers, all the cump equipage, and an
important pout ion at Wanzenau, of which
General Wurmfer immediately took pof
feflion : That the Auftrians were attacked
on every 6df an the 27th, bat tliat the
cnenav was copiptHod to retreat ; andtr.at
thelofc of toe latter on the two days was
coniputctl at killed woaadco and
taken.
FRANCE.
national convention.
October 23
Thibault—" I have been informed some
iß'-inicipalities.or revolutionary committees
have feiied, burnt or torn books which
contained traces of feudality: the Con
vention uught to explain itfelf in this ref
lect, since they decreed the confifcation
of houses in which feudal symbols should
be found. We ought to know, for exam
ple, whether the eight volumes of the luf
tory of France, by Velly, which contain
prints of several kings, (hould be fuppref
ial. I move that yoil will pass a law op.
tab fubj''ft."
Merlm—"The decree which confifcates
honfes in which fymbots and feudality are
found, fpeafcs only of luc'n as are attached
to the edifices, as arms over the portal,
See. 1 call for the order of the day lim
ply."
Others were for grounding the ptifling
to the order of the day, upon the princi
ple that the Convention had not included
in their decree either libraries or engrav
ings. Adopted.
A citizen from the Popular Society of
Moulincs, informed the Convention, that
the bilnop of that place officiated with a
pike and red bonnet, instead of a cross
and mitre.
The orator in concluding, depofitcd on
the altar of the country, a golden cross,
f-t with precious (tones, and several mirks
of silver, taken from the statues of the
Saints.
Bairere proposed the cftablifhment of
a commission wholly to be employed rel
pe£ting provifiohs, to be composed of 3
lioneft patriotic and enlightened men, ac
quainted with commerce, the adminiftra
lion of the departments, and the laws of
foreign countries refpefting trade and na
vifration—-Decreed.
October 24.
The Minister of the Interior, denounc
ed several persons, who endeavored to make
a difference between affifgnats and specie—
depreciating the former, in order to en
creafe the value of the latter. The de
nunciation was ordered to be sent to the
committee of general fafety.
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 25.
L».l night, about half after 11 o'clock,
a fire broke out in a frame building in
Second-street, near the New-Market —
Two framed houses were consumed—and
a brick building on the south-west corner
o; Pine and Second-street, very much i 11-
jured. An high wind prevailing at the
moment, the scene was truly alarming
but providentially, thro' the spirited exer
tions of thi citizens and fire-men, the pro
gress of the flames was unexpectedly ar
retted.
ExtraS of a letter from a gentleman in Lon-
don, Hated November 5, 1793'
u Insurance upon American property
at present, cannor be done under 8 or 10
per cent, the French now take all neutial
ships bound to or from an enemy s port,
and the Algerines have declared war again 11
every power that are not at war with
France, which i$ the reason that the French
are taking all neutrals —it is reported that
several American {hips have fmce been ta
ken by the Algerines—B or io per cent,
may appear to you very high for insurance,
Lut it cannot be done for less. A part
ner in the houfc of informed me
this day at Lloyd's, that he saw io per
cent, given—EngJilh (hips can be done at
7 1-2 per cent. You know the iufurance
therefore make the bell of what you have.
The foliotuing extracts of letters received
from Afr. Pixckxsi-, M.n'.jter Plenipo
pentiary of the Unites S.'titej at the Court
cf Londjn, were communicated by mejfcige
from the President to Ctiigrefs, on
nefday lass.
Extract of a letter from Thomas Pinck
ncy, to the Sec ret a. y of State, dated
London, 12th Auguit,* 1793
" I continue to receive aflurances from
hiinf of the desire of tl,government so
to conduit the measures thej think them
selves justified in pursuing towards the
neutral powers, a3 to render them as lit
tle detrimental to our commerce is the
fete of warfare existing in Europe will
admit; and, on complaint of some irre
gularities committed by Britilh priva
teers, he requested me to feleft fomc in
stances where the evidence is clear, in
order for criminal prosecutions to be in
flituted against the offenders, in which
lie protaiifed the fulled support of the
law-officers of the crown—and I .am now
endeavouring to fix upon some ttrong ca
ses, where our evidence may be fuflicient
to ensure conviction. I believe it to be
the desire, both of the government and
of the people in general here, to be up
on good terms With us; but the line of
conduit pursued to the neutral powers,
in which I do not perceive any symp
toms of relaxation, cannot but create
dilTatisfadtion. From tiie department of
State I generally obtain explicit answers
on filch fubjedts as they are competent to
decide ; but where references are made
thence to other departments, which is
verv frequently the cafe, the delayi are
very great, especially ia the business with
the admiralty "
Truly extracted from the original, 22d
January, 1794.
Go. Taylor, Chief Clerk
in the Department of State.
* Probably a mistake.
f Miniftei 1 for Foreign Affairs.
September 3d, 1793.
Ordered,
That freight and reasonable expences
(hall be allowed to all mailers of neutral
carrier (hips, and be a charge upon the
cargoes whether condemned, or restored
or ordered for further proof of neutral
property —provided always, that no mala
fides, or prevarication (hall appear, or
be justly presumed, or fufpefted on the
part of any neutral matter, and that such
neutral matter (hall make oath that such
freights are not already paid for, or en
gaged for to be paid, by the owners of the
said cargoes, in view of every event of
capture or otherwile. Demutrage (hall
be allowed and considered as reasona
ble expense, only in cases where the (hip
(hall be pronounced to have been unjust
ly seized and brought in for adjudica
tion or bulk broken, and his mayfly's
inlh'uftions disobeyed, or where thera has
been actual and wilful damage done, and
mifufage of persons or property by the
captor, or when the time of detention
for the purpose of unlivery of the cargo,
or repairing such damage, fliall exceed
th£ time fpecified in the charter party, or
when the neutral matter (hall not refufe
or ncgleft to take away his (hip upon
bail offered to be given by the captors
for freight, and reasonable expenses.—
That where the value of corn and nival
stores fold to his majesty (hall be decreed
to be paid to any neutral claimant, the
owner, in cases where such corn, provi
sion, and other naval stores, by any trea
ty or particular stipulation (hall be held
to be not contrabaud, and so not confis
cable, the captor who (hall have brought
in such privileged (hips and cargoc6, in
> consequence of his majeft's orders and
inftruftions, and who (hall have given
bail to be answerable upon unlivery of
the fame, for freight and reasonable ex
penses, in Cafe that any (hall be allowed,
(hall be discharged from his bail, but
that the freight and such reasonable ex
penses (hall be dccreed to be added to the
price of the cargo, and to be paid for by
his majesty to the neutral owner in cases
of restitution, and in cases of condemna
tion, (hall be added in like manner, to
the price of the cargo, and paid to the
captor by his majesty.
Freights, and reasonable expenses, where
captors and claimants cannot agree, (hall
be referred to be fettled by the deputy
register, and merchants appointed by the
court; the report nevertheless fliall be
fubjc£t to revival by order of the court,
upon cbje&ion made J)y either party.
A. true copy of the original, January
22 > 1 794*
Go. Taylor, Clntf Clern v
in the Department of Slate.
Extract of a letter from Thomas Pinck
ney to the Secretary of State, dated
London, November it, 1793-
" Tufcany has been obliged to abandota
its neutrality. Genoa has been furc;bly
urged into the fame measures by the
commanders of combined Spanish and
British fleets, who entered their port, and
seized a French frigate, and fume armed
veflels lying there. A minister from that
Republic was received at the last levee.
" A proclamation is ifiued, directing
our veflfels from Pennsylvania, Jersey, and
Delaware, to perform a quarantine of
fourteen days,"
Truly extra&ed from the original, 22d
of January, 1794-
Go. Taylor* Chief Clerk
in the Department of State.
To the Senate and House of Rcprcfentat'i-ues
of the General Jtjfemblj of the Common
wealth of Pennfyhaniat
GENTLEMEN,
THE Master Warden of the Port, has
riprefented to mc, that the information
which he has received through various
channels, affords great renfon to apprehend
that a pestilential fever rages in several of
the Weft-India iilands, with which we
maintain a conflderablc intercourse. It
becomes ncceffarv therefore to remind you,
that the temporary powers vested in the
Governor, by the ast of the fifth day of
September lait, for the purpose of guard
ing against the introdi ft on of malignant
disorders, have expired ; and that the pre
cautions afithorifed by the preceding ast
(as you will more particularly perceive
from the report of the health officer, which
accompanies this meflage) are incompe
tent to the object.
I take the present opportunity likewise
to inform you, that utilefs some Legilla
tive provision is made, the Fort at Mnd-
Island cannot be maintained many days
longer; though as the navigation of the
river is free from the interruption usual
at this season, the establishment is now as
necessary as at any former period.
THOMAS MIFFLIN.
Philad. 24th Jan. 1794.
FTCOM CVKKF.spvhuamts.
Mr. Bache's paper has a paragraph,
which, fays the friends of good govern
ment, disapprove the publications reced
ing the war. Many of them do. An
itch to meddle in European wars, is not
patriotic. To make a flourifh of zeal, in
the cause of either, (hews as little true
dignity, as prudence. It neither becomes
a nation profeffing to be neutral, nor one
that scorns to deal out blows that it would
not have returned. America, Hands too
high in the world's elteem, to be (hewn as
the bully or toad-eater of any power un
der heaven. Self refpeft will prevent in
sults on some, or a servile dependence on
any of them. Therefore, the paragraph
writer, may ehjoy the support of the
Georgia celebration, as much as he may
chufe. It was not by luch proceedings
that we escaped war. There is a sneer at
at the word good government —good go
vernment is not ruling by a club-—it is not
by incendiaries—fitting out armed veflels
.while the government remains at peace.
It is not a good government, if it has not
ftrcngth and firmnefs enough to reilrain
such a faction from kindling a war.
Is there one man of our Jacobins who
tells you that all goes wrong in America
and all goesright in Francc—is there one
of them that would not {hake in his (hoes
if he had to change his rtfider.ee from
this opprefied to that free happy conntry ?
It is very much doubted, whether a
certain eminent French Jacobin, who has
figured away for feme time pa ft, will £0
home and expefe his own neck to the
danger of his own principles. It will be
fafer here, wheie the theory is admired—
There it is reduced to pra&ice*
PRICE of STOCKS.
6 per cents, 18>fl to 18/°}
3 ditto, lof 2
Deferred, llft
IT. S. Bank, 13 per cent, advance,
N. A. ditto, 20 ditto ditto.
Peanfylvania do. 7 ditto ditto.
Congrcfs of the United States.
Hovj'c of Rtfrrfcntal'ma.
Saturday, Jan. 25,
After reading and referring fiindry pe*
titions, the house went into committee ot
the whole, Mr. Trumbull in the chair,and
proceeded in the further difcullion of Mr.
MadiUm's refutations refpetting the com
merce of the U nitcil t>utts.
Mr. Hilllioui'e, Mr. Gilbert, and Mr.
S. Smith spoke in opposition ; and Mr.
Clark and Mr. Fiiidley in support of the
principle entertained in the to ft Resolu
tion.
The debate continued till 3 o*elc>ck,
when progress was reported and the
houfc adjourned.
FRANCE.
MUNICIPALITY of PJRIS.
October 19.
Lawrens Joseph Andrew Dunand, Priest,
Deputy from the Department of Mayon
ne, deposits on' the altars of Philofuphy
and Equality, his quality of Priell ; per
suaded, that the God Nature and Liberty
communicates with his children without
an intermediary. " May the religion of
(laves," said he, " be soon appreciated to
its true value by all the Sans Culottes.
As to me, 1 fee in the Roman and Conlti
tutional Church, nothing the but a King*
Nobility, Slaves.
I will have nothing left that belongs to
that church, not even tr.v name given me
at my baptism, by which it was endeavor
ed to make either a fool or a rogue of me.
My name (hall in future be Tell Dunand."
The Council, applauding the principles
laid down by Tell Dunand, decrees,
" That his letter of prieithood (hall be
burned by two children) which was exe
cuted immediately ; and that the letters ot
Dunand,containing his religious principles
(hall be printed and polled up in the
streets."
SHIP NEWS.
Arrivals at Philadelphia•
Ship Liberty, Miller, Marcus-Hock,
[returned
Chtiler,
Pfggy. Elliot,
Brig Fair Hebe, Brown
Kitty, LumUard,
Dolphin, Nichols,
Sloop Brilliant, Trembles,
*#* " Jvfii*-*" * s exceptionally frvcrc
—The Jlfthvres on certain gulerncterial ap
pointments, are elf cure, mid the incidents
un intefejii ngd
Sixty Cents Reward.
RAN AWAY from on board the Brig Polly,
laying at Marcus-fclook on Sunday
thr 19th inft. an Apprentice Ladj named JOHN
COLLINGS ; 14 years of ape, about 4 feet 1O
inches high, a little pitted with the frrall-pox.
had on he went away, a red romd-about
jneket, blue trowferfc, a round fur hatj black
handkerchief, nrw (hoes with square plated
buckles. Whoever apprehends the said Lad, (a
that his tnafter may pet hitn agaiti, shall be en*
titled to the above rew^id.
Captain WILLIAM PAUL,
Northern Liberties.
N. B. All MufteVl of vcffelsare forbid carry*
ing him off, or anv person harboring said boy,
as they may expc£i to be dealt vyith according to
law.
Jan. 25.
Four Dollars Reward.
RAN AWAY from his Matter's Service, a
negro man, named JERRY } a good fi
gure, black completion, and by proftfTion a
Cook. JJad on when he went away* a fatlot'*
blue jacket and trowfers. Whoever will ap
prehend said negro, and give information to the
Printer of this Paper, (nail receive Four Dol
lars Reward ; Aud all Mailers of Veflels rnd
others, are cautioned not to employ him in their
service.
J jr * 25*
War Atlas.
This Day is Published,
( Pricey dollar and a half)
By MAT HEW CAREY,
No. 118, Markct-jlreci,
A Collection of Maps,
Including the whole of th<* various Seat* of
the present War in Europe, viz.
i.\ sAP of the United Province*of Holland,
iVA Fricfland, Groniengen, Overyffc!, Gli
ders, Utrecht, and Zealand.
2. Map of the French, Dutch, znd Auflrian
Netherlands.
3. Map of Francc divided into circles and
tic jjarlment*,
r Map of Spain and Portugal.
5. Map of Germany and Sw (Zetland,
N. B. Any of the above Map* may be had
leparate.
Said Carey has lately publi/bed
Account of Algiers—with a .
Account of ihe Malignant Fcv.r, 4th cdmon—
3/9 —Dr. NjlTj'i Ticnifc on do.—
Jan. 4'.»iw.
A
Catlii
KaWe-de-Gi acs
Savannah
Port a PaixComplaints having been made that
the Southern fubferibers for this Gazette
do not receive it, till the intelligence has
b.-en anticipated by papers previously re
ceived by other persons; they are inform
ed that the regulations at the Foil-Office
in this city require that Printers ihould
depoiit their papers there, the day prece
ding the departure of the mail; this cir
cumtlance gives opportunity to forward by
Frank'inp, Tuesday, Thurfdav, and Satur
day Evenings' papers, and the papers of
Monday, Wednesday and Saturday morn
ings, on poll dr.ys.
Persons at a diflance who \vi(h to re
ceive this Gazette, are informed that the
terms of fubfeription cannot be clilpenfed
with.—One half of the fubfeription mo
ney, for the half-weekly ppper lately print
ed and circulated by the Editor to all parts
of the Union, is yet due, either from the
fubfc. ibers, or collectors—and as the pub
lication of a daily paper is attended with a
heavy expense—however felicitous the
Printer roav be to difieminate intelligence,
it will appear, that persisting in his former
plan of lending his Gazette to every per
son who writes for it, without securing
the fubfeviptious will prove ruinous in the
extreme
The Editor most earneftiy requests those
who are indebted for his late publication,
to make immediate payment —particularly
those who have received the arrearages
from fubferibers.—Some will recollect that
repeated afiurances on this point, have not
been realized.
AD VE RTISEMENT.
Virginia, horthumber!and ( oui tx, Djc. 28, »793*
FOR SAIE,
A Valuable Trad of LAND,
iii this county, confining about tight
huuU--'<l acrcs, one touith of which is low
gi ju.rfcls, of excellent quality; the other three
toyrihs is high land, well eovcicd with oak,
hickory ?nd chrfnut.
Ji*tia > i<<n '■ s and hr.ilr hv,on Y rr.
:v> :, rfv.uu ihrc*' n-i u>• Irom thr P .10-
Tht rc :son 1: a wo ftoiv hn.k dvn-i-
rem ic
m.i. k
ling.lioufej with four roiimi dnd a on
each fl »r»ij ext'lufivc of clofcts ; a good kitchcn,
ard «:rtict ncccff.it v ou'-hotif; s It ha* 01 chords
ol apple and p ach uccs, and is wcil watered
h\ many d< hghi fu! fpiings. Tilt terms may be
krv>v. 11 on application to, the Honorable JOHN
HfcATH. iii Philadelphia, or to (he f iblcnbcr,
living on the pirmtfcs.
TOHV n n v
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Secwd-Jlreety
Seconddoor b." low the corner ot Cheluut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the lafe arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general AJfortment of
New Books and Stationary,
"Which will be di'pofcd of on the lowcit ret Ills.
D-c. 23. mw&rfrf
Bank of the United States.
Januai y 6rh, 1 794.
NOTICE is hereby given, that theie will
be paid at the Bank, after the lixteenth
instant, to the Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized f; teen dollars and
fifty cents for each lhure, being the dividend
d: elated for the iix moi.ths.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cafhfer.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths & Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortment of
SILVER fcf PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY (stjine CUTLERY,
Which tliey will difpole of on the most rea
sonable te'ins. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the go'd and silver
way, done as nlual.
December 24,
The Young LADIES'
Drawing Academy,
Under the Direction of
S. FOLWELL,
//?'//, in a feiv days, be resumed.
HE feels a gratitude to those parents
and guardians of the young ladies,
who have entrusted to him their tuition—
and as mod of them are to return, he will
have an opportunity, by his endeavors for
their further improvement, to acquit him
felf of a debt, which he esteems it an honor
to have incurred.
, One or two large Rooms y
In a central situation, suitable to accom
modate his pupils, are wanted. Apply to
him, at No. 2, Ltetitia Court—where he
will be thankful to receive commands for
Miniature Painting or Hair Work, and all
kind of Drawing on Ivory, Sattin or
Paper.
January 13, 1794
Excellent CLARET,
la hogs.cads and in cafcs ot 50 bottles each,
A few cases C.hainpaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipe, ho*fti' «ds and quarter cask«,
N">. lit, Suuih Fioui-iiicci
J-* n - '794'
ALL persons having any de
tmud* ag.nnft the »Haie Gi.ORGE
VVIhLE, late o ; the cuy ol Philadelphia, baker,
rfie r 1 qurftt d -o bung in their accounts, properly
;ut!hci.t : c2ted ; and th.»fc who »mc indebted, are
dciutd to make immediate payment.
iILNRY RtfcS, Aiiiioiftratnr.
January 13.
NORRIS - COURT,
Rick of the New Lbra'v, between Chefnut
and Walnut Streets,
George R.utter,
RESPECTFULLY inf.unu his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
currying on the bufinrfc of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors o) window-Aiutttfrs, done in the'n»oft
elegant niannei, and with du'patch. N
Orders from the country will i>c thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
dtf
December 3^
This day is publijhedy
United States Register,
For the Year i 7 94.
Pr-nted by Siewart and Co hran, No. 34.
South Sccond-ftrcei,and John M'Culloch, No. 1,
Noith Thud-street, and 10 be lold b) them and
the bookfc'.icn.
dtf
j .n. ,8.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by
Thomas Dobfon,
Price three eighths of a Dollar,
" An Enquiry into the principles
and tendenqy of certain public
dtvv
meaiures."
January 16.
Treaiury Department,
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposal* wilj
be teceived at the Office of the Secretary
•>f thr Tteafury, until the 6 h of February nex:
inclufivr, tor the i'upplv of all Rations which
may be required during the prefeni year, at the
several places of hereafter mention
ed, tor the Recruit.ng Service, viz.
At New-Bnmfwick, in New-Jerfcy;
At Philadelphia, }
At Lancafte , > in Pennsylvania.
At Reading, )
The ration* ro be furniftied are to consist of the
following article?, vix.
One pound c»f bread or flour,
Ouc pound of beef, or £ of a pound of pork,
Half ajill of rum, brandy or whiiky,
One tjuat i of fait }
Two quarts of vinegar f
~r 1 Act > per too rations,
iwo pounds of loap C 1
One pound of candles)
Jan. 9.
S TATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representatives,
December aift, 1703.
WHEREAS the Commiilioners of public
Accounts, hive reported, that they can
not proceed to the inve(ligation of the Treasury
Accounts, refpe&ing special Indents, without
knowing the outftandtng amount thereof in cir
culation :—Therefore,
Rcjolvcd, Thai all holders of special Indents
be dtre&ed, and required, on or before the firft
day of November next, to deliver the special In
dents in their poffeflion to one or other of the
Commiflioners of the Treasury, who arc to give
receipts for the fame, and to rep. n to the Com
miflioners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
them relpe&ively received, and also 10 the Le
gfhture, at their meeting m November next.
And that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, shall be, and the fame are
hereby barred.
mw&rftf
Rejo/vedy That public notice of this resolution
be ijiven in the (everal Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, uiril the fiift day of
November next. And that the Delegates ei this
Stare in the Congrels of the United States, be re
qucfted to cause this nlolution to be publifVicd
in one or mare papers in the cities of Philadel
phia arid New-York, and that provision will be
made lor the expences attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
Senate for their concurrence.
By nider of the House,
JOHN SANFORD DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
Decimbir ? Irt , 1 793
Refolvcd, That this House do concur wuh the
Houle of Repiefentatives in the forigo'.ng refo
lutionv
Ordered, That the resolutions be lent to the
House of Representatives.
By order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLLY, Clerk.
diw
ewtNov.
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
2aw3w.
THE
»awt6F.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
""pHt Suotcnbei intending to confine himfelf
1 entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE op
SrOC-fcl o" COMMISSION, begs leave to of
fer his fervicesto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their hufinefs, may drpertd
upon traufa&ed with the utmost fide
lity and difpaich.
Orders liom Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United State;, will he ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLRECKEK.
A LL perfous having any demand against
IJL the Estate and Effects of Mrs. MARY
SINDIIEY, widow, late of Frankford, Ox
ford townlhip, in the State of Pennsylvania,
deceased; are desired to produce their ac
counts to Jacob Leshek and Villi am Creed,
(in Frankford, aforcfaid,) Executors and Ad
ministrators of the above in oider for settle
ment. And whoever is indebted to laid Es
tate, Sec. arc requested to make payment to
the aforefaid Adnviniftrators, on or before the
16th of March, 1794, or they will, be dealt
with according to law.
Frank ford, Dec. 16.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying-
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and re quelling their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues ta make and repair at the
Ihoi test notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
f'uch as coacnec, chariots, phsetons with and
without craive necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reen*;, windlbr fulkeys and chaiis, and harness
of evory defci iption, in the neatest and newest
faftiion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion to thole whopleafe to employ him.
He has for sale, several carriages almost
fini(feed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a ligl t phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
Carriages fold on Commiflion,
Piiil.:(k'i ( >hia, Jan. 6,1794- m&:t3m
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookleller, at the Stone House, ijrSecond
ftreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Of A ts, Sciences, and Miscellaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new j
Br WHICH
The Different Sciences and Arts,
arc digejled into the form of
Diftinft Treaties or Syirems :
THIS volume contains principles of Levels,
Liberty, Du&rine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
don, Longicude. Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illultrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number of families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
areretuvned. T. D.)bfon, solicits the favor
of the subscribers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poilible.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an impcrfett state, some ac
count of the reason of that imperfe&ion should
be p_iven. On the Bth of September last, the
Publisher had the misfortune of having h»s
Printing-Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the rioußEs, with
which he was printing the tables or lo
garithms, be'onging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the neceflity of pub
lifbing the volume without these tables; but
hopes he ftiall be able to publish them with the
next volume which is now in considerable for
wardnefs.
The Publiflier embraces this opportunity of
expressing his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to such of the subscribers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necefHty of
punctuality, both in taking up 'he volumes as
early as polfible after publication-, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the sub
scribers having got only one, two, three, &:c.
volumes, and several volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these triftes unpaid lays the Publisher under
very serious embarraflment, and deprives him
of the life of many Thousands of Dollirs which
at this time would be of very efTen tial service.
For these reasons the Publilher finds himfelf
under the necefljty of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those who
take and pay to the time of publication.
Dcccmbcr »o.
Just Imported,
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
And now opening for iale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jlreet,
A Lnrpe and Valuable
COLLECTION of BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NE'Y Annual Regilter for 1792
European Magazine for the fir ft fix
months of I 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester focicty, 3 voi *'
Priestly on matter and I'pirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of* Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty, a collection of ctfays
Varieof Pruflia's works
Calm obfervei—by Mackintolh
Ruflell's ancient and modei n Europe
I-anghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extradix, superbly gilt
Elegant extra&s of natural hillory
Sangnier and Briflon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Tovrnfend's travels in Spain
Taffo's Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's hillory of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
Hillory of birds
Philips'* history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, *3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hiitdoftaii
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
I inlay's description of Kentucky
Piefent state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on phyfiojnomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. John Ton
Netker on executive power
Kiffos of Secundum
Gallery 6f portraits
Volney's ruins of empire*
t&frf.
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engraving*
Downman'S infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Beoington on materialism and imma'eriaUfm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Volta?re
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation ot Tacitus
Godwin on political j oft ice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's (ketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhoufc dictionary
Reveries of fofttude
Smith's theory of moral sentiment*
Stackhoufe*s history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. &: Hid.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wall s on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark, Russia, Poland, Bcc.
Cox's (ravels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's mecfical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the prafticc of mi«fc
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Arniftrong on diseases of"children
Quincy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on ferers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on difeafesof women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on rhe fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on difea r es of* armies
Haller's phyfjology
Spalanzane's diflertations
London pra&ice of physic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
PHILADELPHIA:
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
•awti J.
Enquire of the Editor.