of ffie Iflttifti)
A
•;r
EVEN
[No. 40 of Vol. V.]
JuJl publ'ijloedi
THE
United States Register,
For the Year 1794.
Containing,,
\ CAXKNDAR, with the nerefTary tables
* i. fitted lor t he latitude of the princpal towns
ih the United States; fiiuaiion, extern, population
and GOVERNMENT U.S.
SUPWFME FXRCUTIVE,
R E,
Judiciary,
Lift of Counsellors admitted to pra&ife in
the Supreme Court.
Do. of Atrotnies, Do.
Kxfcutive [(ranches,
t>EPAKTMENT OF STAT*,
M I.ifteis and Consuls of the United States
iii foreiqu nations.
Do. ol foreign nations resident in the
United Slates.
DH'aktmem o r t HE Treasury,
Principals and Clerks of the refped ve of
fices,
Coinniiflioneis of Loan*,
Officers of the Customs, with their respec
tive dtftrifts and ports,
Oilers of thc Ekctfc, with their rcfpe&ive
diilndl.s and furveyn,
1 si of dutiable articles, &c.
Abflraft from the revenue laws,
Statement of the public'debt,
— of Light.houses,
' —of appropriations for the support
of Government.
Department of War,
Sec rem v'» office,
Accountant's,
Monthly pay, &c, of the army.
Mint Establish'mf. nt,
OHiccis,
A bftraft from the laws relating to coinage.
Post Office Establishment,
Officers,
Abttraft from the law establishing the office
Lift of post towns, with their rrfpeftive
difiances as iftab lifted by the Post.Mas
ter Grnerafi.
Latitude ami I.ojccitupe of the prin
cipal towns ui the United States andthcr
Vicinity
B* KKS,
IJhiuit Sia:<s,
North Amcitea,
Siaic byfiks wi'-H flieir
Literary Inixiti/n.ttAi.
Amcuc&n PJnlofophical So.icty,
An jcrican Academy of Arts and Science
National Manufactory at Patcrfon
N. J.
Sessions of the Courts of the United
States.
Wf-jtirn Territory
State Govirnmintj.
AbflraS fiom the conftitutioH of each state
Ftincipal officers, executive, lcgiflative and
judiciary.
Militia,
Officers of the Banks, capitals, dates of in
corporation, periods of limitation, ex
tent of property, &c.
Univerfuies, Colleges and Academies,
Societies, fcicntific, human., poluical&c
Exhibitin" in as general and comprehenlive a
view as possible the internal police, the state
of litciature, arts, commerce, and fociely.in
the several ftjf*.
Price 50 cents.
Printed by Stewart and Cochran, No. 34,
South Sccond ftieet, and ]ohn M'Ctilloch, No.
1, not 1 h Third street, aud fold bv them and
ihe hookfcllrrs Jan. 17. d6t
Excellent CLARET,
In hogP.cad* iiiii in cafc» of 50 boulc» cach.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine }
MADEIRA,
In pipea, hoglhtads and quaitcr catks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111, South Front-ltiPci
l-'B. 2, 1794-
N O R RIS-COURT,
Back of the New L.bra:v, between ChefnQt
and Walnut-Streets
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friend' and
the public in general, that he coniinuis
carrying on the bufintf* of #
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-(hutt«rs, done in the moll
elegant manner, and with dilpatch. ....
Orders from the country will be thankiully
deceived, and duly attended to.
December 30,
ALL persons having any de
mands against the cltate ol GhORGE
WIBLE, late ol the city ol Philadelphia, baker,
»re rtqueftcd 10 bring in their account., properly
authenticated ; and tliofc who arc indebted, are
icfirtd to make immediate payn ent.
HENRY REES, Aminiftrator.
January 13. aawjw.
I N G
Tuesday, January 28, 1794.
ADVERTISEMENT.
I irginia, Northvnhrrland <_ovnt\\ Dec 28, 1703
FOR SALE,
A Valuable Trad of LAND.
in this county, conuainiirg about etg-kc
hundred aeres, one fourth of which is tow'
grounds, of excellent quality ; the other three
tpunhs \s high land, well coveicd wuh oak, |
hickory »ftd chefnut.
The situation is pleasant and healthy., on Yeo
con| co river, about three miles from the Poto
mack. 1 here is on it a two story brick d wel
ling. house, wii h four rooms and a on
each floor, exclnfive of cWfets ; a good kitchen,
and other necessary oui-houfes: It has orchards
of apple and p ach trees, and is will watered
by many delightful springs. The terms may be
known on application to the Honorable JOHN
HEAT H, in Philadelphia or to the fubferiber,
living on the premise*.
Tan. to
TOHN OORPOv
Sixty Cents Reward.
RAN AWAY from on board'the Biig Polly,
laying at Marcos-Hook pVers, on Sunday
the 19th in ft. an Apprentice Lad, named JOHN
COL LINGS ; 1.4 yeais of age, about 4 fart 10
inches high, a little pitted with small-pox,
had on when he werrt away, a red tound«al>out
j-ckct, blue trowfers, a round fur hat, black
handkerchief, new (hoes * ith square plated
buckler. Whoever apprehends ibe said I ad, lo
that his mailer may get him again, /hall be en
titled to the above rewaid.
Capiiii. WII.LIAM PAUL,
Noi'liern Liberies.
N. B. All Ma-ftefs of vclfelstfrc forbid carry
ing him oft', or any person harhoeing said boy,
as they may expect to be dealt with according to
law.
Jan. 25,
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an e.'vii-ile fituarion, —alto a Country Seat
within 6 miles i>f the Cityj with 9 acies of
land, or 42 acres oi Jand and ineadow, the
Hdu: -* is nut exceeded by many in the vicinity
of" t :ecit), in size or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
Jarfoffr? "23.
Infurafice Company.
t'hiiadc'fhu, January f>, t?<>4.
NOTICE is hereby given 10 the members
of the Insurance Company of North-
Ajnerica, that the Directors have declared a
dividend (for the last fix months) of srxptß
Cent, on the amount o< the firll and fecund
inflalmcnts ; and of one per cent per month
on the sums paid in anticipation of the third
instalment, calculating from the firft day of
the month following that, in which th-ofe pay
ments were made. The d.vidend will be paid
to the Stockholders, or their rcprefentatives,
at the company's office, No. 119 fotth Fiont
ftfect, at any time after the 13th instant.
By order of the Directors.
EBtNEZER. HAZARD, Secietary.
Jan. 9. w&f.xni
Treasury Department,
NOTICE is hereby g'-ven, that piopofals wi.l
be received at the Office ol the Secretary
ol the Treasury, until the 6.h of February next
inclusive, lor the supply of all Rations which
may be required during the preftnt year, at the
fevtral places of rendezvous hereafter mention
ed , lor the Recruiting Service, viz.
At New-Bi urifwick, in Ncw-Jerfcy;
Ai Plnladilphia, ")
At Lancaftei, > in Perinfylvattia.
At Reading, )
The rations to be furnifhed are toconfift of tV.«
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beel, 01 j of a pound of pork
Half a jill of ruin, branny or whiiky,
One quart of fait
Two quarts ut vinegar f ioQ fjtions
Two pound> ol ioap f
On pound ol candles)
,]»»• q
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1794.
XTOTICE it hereby given, that tbeie »ill
i\ be paid at the Bank, after the fifteenth
inftint, to the Stockholders or their reprefen
(atives, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty cents for each fliare, being the dividend
declared for the last fix month*.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN. Ca(hier.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Secandjlreet,
Seconddooi b-low the cor ne rot Chelnut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general AJforlment of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be disposed of on the lowed terms.
D-c. 23. mw&fttf
N B
ADVERTISE
Peale's Museum,
t J AS Lately rtrcnvfd a number of af:icle? ;
X J. which are the following : That
icmarkahlc ij.id c.'llrd the C«)!-Vf »iri, or lc>f
a»s-Mli; The Avofetir, cominon'. < ii»*<l the
Shoe-maker, beeanfe of its bill refrmhlfrtg a
crooked a he Long-legs, communly call
ed the BUcfc-tift, having pet taps the lotfgeft legs,
in proportion to the Bze of [he bird, of any of
the fern he red ti ibc— I he Slot m-finch, common
ly calbd rnothtr Carp's, chicken—The Sea
fwallow, and various Gulls ; he fides a variety
oi C'anes, Curlews, Snipes, &.c.
The ft:u 11 of a Whale and one of its Vembres.
A'lV Indian haichct mrde of chrrlta! : It it
cutmhis ih»i rhofc uninformed wild people, hav
ing vrry liitle knowledge ol the ausvaud bem.»
ignoiaiH e*co ol the ex'iißiict of iron and fhcl,
ftu'utd t f SM? !o form such hard fubtlancea m
-10 faCi.i'uKwims ax tliia, and Indian tfia
now m Mufrum.
A Lgnified Quince : Hie fpccimen shew*
what a icmailuble elTefl a dry warm fnuation
has on fr'frit. li is now about 8 ycarfc ftnee if
was gathered ; and it was a feal-quiirccf now be
come wood, at leail in appearance.
Pre Tented by Mrs. Manion oi Charle&ownf
S. C.— a tool uh tl by she OiaheUaus in making
their batk, cMh, by pound m* tfip bark on this
inltrument of wood, it pro'do<;<s the ribs which
rcfemUc tnrearfs : ffie pcifc£tly straight and
• 1 rus rnaoe in ilns extreme ba'd wood, by
mm without the uJe ol non,are curios* & won*
detffol.
Alio, a ro> c made of praCit, part of the rigg
ing oi a vcflrl oJ.K&n Jkatkji.
Pfelenird by D> .Hall, of Lewis-town, a Squib
in : whru ihu fcllv was found, a number
oi ftonct were appended to ft lings or ligaments
that proj-fted from the front of tis head,v»hich
occafiancd a conjecture, ay it j s not furnifbed
with fuffietent fins to nfifk the vioknee of the
tide and currents, that n fafteoed wis ft these li
gaments on whatever it found a> the bottom ; so
that the stones antwVfed the purpoleof anchors
anrd the ligaments of a jjlut inous ttitfcy nature',
that of cableJ. Some *>f the iioncs arc tn the
fame phial.
A collision of Minerals and other FofTiif,
•»e now dtfplayeci to drawers Covered witlielaf
and in a modr which will famre them irbm de
rangement. To each fpccimcn are refe
rences 10 a book of oefctipuons. 1 "hj*
nirnt of Tpcciinrns of the Foflil kingdom, len
ders this part of the Museum very cfrtivrni nr.
end fatifltaelory.and are*i ' r ~X*
ia*thefVAcma£ie*ia>idcr of ihtni, *t*d m
ing the noeeiTary essays of each : Alio in giving
in a concise manner, the yarious uses tlicy are
applied to; then by rendering them the more
ioterefting to t*he public.
A Living Elk, of 2 years old. is jufl receiv
ed. Bythe"account which rami. Button gives
of the Elk, it appears that he was noi acquaints
ed with this American animal; he particularly
omits aftnorite of the curious apertures adjoin
ing the eyes of this F.lk.
ni&th—tf
Cj?" Complaints having been made that
the Southern fuhfcribers for this Gazette
do not receive it, till the intelligence has
been anticipated by papers previoufiy re
ceived by otheT persons j they are inform
ed that the' regulations at the Poll-Office
in this- city require that Printers should
depefit their papers there, the day prece
ding the departure of the mail ;■ newf
p'jpers being, on account of their bulk,
sent by the ltages, which let off several
hours before the mail is closed, occasions
this arrangement, for the winter.
Persons at a dillance who wilh to re
ceive this Gazette, are informed that the
terms of fubfeription cannot be dispensed
with.—One half of the fubfeription mo
ney, for the half-weekly paper lately print
ed and circulated by the Editor to all parts
of the Union, is yet due, either from the
fubferibers, or colkxStors—and as tbe pub
lication of a daily paper is attended with a
heavy expense—however folic;tous the
Printer may be to difTcrr.iaate intelligence,
It will appear, that perfilting in his former
plan of lending ltis Gazette to every ptf
fon who writes tor it, without securing
the fubferiptions will prove ruinous in the
extreme.
tawt6F.
The Editor most earnestly requefb those
who are indebted for liis late publication,
to make immediate payment —particularly
taofe who Lave received the arrearages
from subscribers.—Some will recolledl that
repeated aflurances on this point, have not
been realized.
(£/■ The Sulfcriptions for thii Paper are
rapidly encreajing. Upwards of Five Hun
dred are Jlruck njf daily.
Aclvertifir.g favors from the friends and
>atrons of the Pubßcatian, are rcfpcßfully
foTiiiled.
■y .
fates
[Whole No. 498.]
Foreign Intelligence,
! By late Arrivals at New-Yorky
CONTINUED.
\ lENNA, O&cher go*
Our army employed in the campaign 9-
ga nil the F encli, is <oin|mfedof
wtfiih leaves in the Iwed.ti y dominions of
the Emperor, but about JO,OOO regular troop*j
but, we ittclerftand that the frontier fr npsot
and Tranlylvartia are I'.irniHig con.
fider.-ibla bodies labour 27yOOoqui"t«ls wtiplit
ofcloathiriß f->r our army upon thr Rhine, h as
b«n fern thither Irfyii il,» 1 ,t. of Sept. to the
23rh. of Otftober last.
1* it file general wish litre, that the War
may l>e difenu tinned, as The people are begin,
ning to inurinn' aloud at the tmxmicntc.,.
which batte already resulted from the prcfent
hottiHtiei.
LONDON, Novcmbef
The American Film!? have rifei> ennfidera.
bly in value, since thrir Povermi em his ecla.
red its deter mi nation to'obfcrve u neu-
tral ty.
A French fl»1p of the line of fib guns, two
f.igatc, and a co. vette, iwfces i?verai (ail
of merchant fliips, which are ridiAg in the port
of Tunis, are expetted to be fnon taken by
our Fleet in the Med'teri arean.
A detachment of (hips of tlie line (rom Ld.
Kood 'sFleet, confiding ol'tl.e Couragfux and
Alcicfe of 74 and the Ardentof 64 gnus each
have bombarded a Fort at St. F:Orentz ii'i
tlie island ofCorfica.
The rcfuJt of this atretic is'as yet urknown.
Seven or eight me': were killed on board the
Ardeiif, one onboard the Courageux, and her
fiift lieutenant, Mr. wlio wa».kil]erf by
at shot from the FOll.
November 16
The fate of Madame Elizabeth of France,
we fearfully apprehend, is approaching to a'
speedy decision. She has already b?e:i denoun
ced in the Jacobin Club fyreptofti which
has hitherto, in almofteveiy inflance, proved
fatal. The principal charges against her are,
that (he accompanied her brother in his flight
t-Varennes, and that (he gave hcY advice alii
di■ Cua nter-Revolutionary procee-
been frequently pcWifecPSGt
leans fa&'ion, and used to be admitted to his
no&tfrnal parties at Moriceaitx andßeincy.
That matcblefs nionfter Egalire, is now no
more. This wietcbj tho* with a heart the
worst that ever rtian was cursed with/
poUvfsed the most boundless ambition, but had
uot a nurd capable of carrying into efc ft any
brjlliant plan to arrive at ohjfcft. He ne
ver once atfed ingenuouflv, but through the
m-sans of various docile inftrtfments,he aspired
to the Throne, while he affe&ed toembrace the
principles of Democracy. The Guillotine has
so far dbne justice, and the Convention, by
seizing on his extcnfive domains, will find a'
vtillable source t& profeciite the war. His
rental before the Revolution, amounted to
159'p001. fterl. per anrium.
Egalite has left behind him, fortr
three fans and a danghtet. Tbe.eldcft ci-de
vant Ducde Ctiarrrc, escaped with Dumou
rier £tbe other two ions,' whole titles were
the Due de Mentpenfieiy and' Count de Bcau
jolais, are prisoners, having been . # arreft*d
with the other ineribers of the Bourbon fami
ly. Madatoolfelle D'(Means, is with Madauv
Genlii, the wife of Sillerv, now in Sw
land. What connexion there was between
Orleans' and Sillery does not appear, any more
than their gir'Jt ; it is only remarkable, rMt*
on the trial of SiUeVy, his being the confidant
of Orleans, was mentioned as his chief crime f
as on the trial of the latter, the chief imputa
tion was, his being the friend of Sillerv ! this
action and re-a£lion of imputed ci iminaliy, is
not the Jeaft curious CHCumffanee tMat diltin
guifliesthe jurilpi udence of Cftenew tribunal*
INDIA.
By she fXanefboui g, who left the
coast early in May, we learn, that the Mab
ratta pirates have, among other depredations,,
near Bombay, taken five Engliffi trading mer
chantmen.
They had the audacity to attack the Surat
Cattle,-a very large fliip-, but \te»e beaten ol?y
after having daugeronfiy wounded her Captain
whose name is Lowry.
Orte Freftbh vessel has fallen a prey to these
delp^radoes.
Admiral Cornwall is, in the Minerva, was
expe&ed on the Bombay coasts, when- little
doubt was eritertairted that his exertions would
soon put ast op so the hitherto too fuccefsfuT
ravages of thffe lawless people.
The Dutch were {training every nerve at
at the Cape, in July, in fortifying the place,
and preparing for defence, particularly at
False Bay,
•-vmutmrT
4
/
R.3?
Cougrefs of the United' States.
Is SENATE,
Tuesday, January 2lit. 1794.
The following written meflage was re
ceived from the Preiiocnt ot the United
State 3, by I Ir. Ins fecretaiy.
United States, January 20th. 1794*
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of the
House of Repreleiitatives,
Having already laid before you a lettei
cf the 16th of August i"93> ' rora t ' ie
Secretarv of State to our Minister at Pa
ris, ilating the condU'ft and urging the
recal of the Mlnifter Plenipotentiary of
the Republic of France ; 1 how commu
nicate to you, that his conduit has been
unequivocally disapproved ; and that the
ftror.geft alfr.rances have been given, that
his recal (hocld be expedited without de-
*
lay.
G. WASHINGTON.
Tlte me!Tac<r was read.
Ordered, That it lie on %.
The memorial oi the people called Qua
kers, from the yearly meeting held at
Rhode liland for New England, in the
yeair 179?. was presented and read, play
ing Cotigvefs to e sere iff the authority ves
ted in them by 'the conftitutjon, lor the
fuppreflion of the ilave trade.
Ordered, That this petition lie on the
table.
The petition of Jacob Milligan was
pretested and read, praying compensation
for lone 3 lullained, whilst in the lcrvke or
the United States.
Ordered, That this petition lie on the
table,
The following written mcffiigc was re
ceived from the P.efideflt of the United
States bv Mr. Dandridge his Secretary.
United States, January 2 n't, 1794.
Gentlemen of th " Senate, and of
the House of Representative*,
It Is with fatisfa&ion that I announce
to you, rhat the alterations which have
been made bylaw in the original plan for
raifiijg a duty on spirits d: Hilled willun the
United States, and on il'.lis, co-operating
with better information, have had
iiderabk influence in obviating the difficul
ties, which have embarrassed that branch
of the public revenue. But the obstacles
which have been experienced, though les
sened, are not yet entin-ly
-^uldfecm
added ; which leads me to recall the at
tention of Cpngrefs to the fubjeft. A
mong the matter*, which may demand re
gulation, ia theeffedl, in point of organi
zation, produced by the separation of
Kentucky from the state of Virginia ; and
the fituatipn, with regard to the law of
the territories north-well and south-west of
the Ohio.
The laws refpe&ing light house elta
blilhments require as a condition of their
permanent maintenance, at the exptnee
of the United States, a complete ceP.ion
of foil and jurisdiction. The celTiona of
different Hates loving been qualified with
a refervalion of the right of fervmg legal
process within the ceded jurifdiftion, are
underitood to be icconclulive, as annexing
a qualification not confonar.t with the
terms of the law. I present this circum
stance to the view of Congress, that they
may judge whether any alteration ought
to be made.
As it appeaj-s to be conformable with
the intention of the " ordinance for the
government of the territory of the Uni
ted State 9 north-weit of the river Ohio,"
although it is not expressly dire&ed, th?.t
the laws of that territory (hould be laid
before Congiefs, I now transmit to you a
copy of such, as have been palled from
July to December 1792, incluiive ; being
the la ft which have been received by the
Secretary of State.
G. WASHINGTON.
The message and copy of laws referred
to were read.
Ordered, That this melTage lie for con
sideration.
On motion,
Ordered, That Mr. Bradley, Mr. Li
vermore and Mr. Brown, be a committee
lo take into consideration the laws passed
in the territory of the United States
north-weft of the river Ohio, from July
to December 1792 inclusive, and report
US : y~ thereon to the Senate.
■ The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to-
rnorroiv morning,
Jan. 2 2d. 1793-
The Vice Piefident laid before the Se-
, *
Orthography —•_ , i j o i ic ,tea.
en the mode of teaching th« Deal, or buia | J
pate futuky communications from the Se
cretary for the department of war, retpec
ting a treaty of peace lately concluded by
fames Seagrave,agent M Indian affairs,on
behalf of the United States, with the
chiefs and warriors on behalf of the Cieek
Indians.
The papers communicated were read.
Ordered, That they lie on the table.
Agreeable to the order of the day, the
Senate took into consideration the motion
made the 16th hilt. That the doors of the
Senate chamber "should remain open,
whilst the Senate fhaU be fitting in a legis
lative and judiciary capacity."
On motion,
It agreed to poll pone the conside
ration of this fubjeel to this day fort
night.
The Senate adjourned to II o'clock to-
morrow morning.
Thursday, Jan. 23d. 1794.
Oa motion by Mr. Cabot, that a com
ih'.ttee be Appointed to coiil'idcr of the ex
pediency oi allowing the drawback on the
re-exportation of goods, warts and mer
chandize, from ports other than those into
which they were iirit imported, and to re
port a bill for that puipofe, if they fliall
tkiiik it proper,
Ordered, That this motion lie for con
sideration.
The following written meiTage was re
ceived from the President of the United
1 States, by Mr. Dandridge his secretary.
United States, 22d. Jan. 1794.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of
1 the House of Representatives,
I forward to you extra&s from the last
advices from our Minister in London ; as
being connected with communications al
ready made.
G. WASHINGTON.
The mefi'age and extra&s were read.
Ordered, That they lie for confidera
ti°n.
A mefl'age from the House of Repre
fentativen bv Mr. Lambert, in the absence
of Mr. Beckley their clerk, detained bv
sickness :
" Mr. Prcfident, The House of Repre
sentatives have palled a bill, entitled, —
" An act for completing and better sup
porting the military eftabiidiinent of the
United States," in which they desire the
concurrence of the Senate." And he
withdrew
The bill was read tlic firft lime.
Ordered, That this bill pafa lo the 20
reading.
(To be Continued.)
CONGRESS.
House of Representatives.
January 16.
In committee of the -whole on Mr. Madifun's
rrfolutions,
Mr. Goodhue,
Mr. Chairman, the propositions now
before us having been confidercd by seve
ral gentleman, who have already fpok.cn,
and who have given such a particular de
tail of calculations, I (hall confine myfelf
to some general obfervatior.s on the fub
jeft.
The gentleman from Maryland, has
made an observation, which (truck me ve
ry forcibly as applied to the subject be
fore us, because it is a maxim to which
all mankind have alfented and upon which
all mankind continually pra&ife, it was
this, " there is no Friendship in Trade,"
and it may be added as a necefl'ary confe
qlience, there ought to be no Hatred in
Track. By following a path founded
upon so obvious a maxim, as the forego
ing, we may be sure of a right guide, but
if we deviate from it, we are in danger of
being led into unforefeen error and mif
chief. It is unqueftionablv our duty to
attend to the Navigation and Commerce
of our country, and give it every proper
encouragement which time ind circum
[lances admit, this has ever been my wilh
and my conduct.
This object so important and desirable
irmft be effected by fixed principles and re
gulations, such as giving our vefiels a de
cided preference in our own ports above
the (hips of every other nation whatever,
by paying less tonnage and other duties ;
by fuffering no foreign (hips to bring into
the United States the productions of any o
| thercountry, than the oneto v.hich they be
long ; and by prohibiting foreign (hips
from coming to the United States from
those places where our own (hips are pro
hibited.
These are the fixed principles and re-
gulajtioivs by one or all of which our na- 1
vigation and commerce can only be pro j
moted, and must never he deviated from,
when adopted in favor of any one nation
whatever—unHs, it be in return forfome
special advantage granted to us by any
particular nation as an equivalent. > l_
therto, onr government has proceeded to
diftiriguifh foreign (hips, only by making
them pay greater tonnage and duties than
our own. Ifcircumttances required it and
the time is judged a seasonable one, I (hall
be willing to proceed further.
Let U» examine what advantages, vve
enjoy in consequence of any commercial
treaties we have already formed lor the
propofitiofls before us, are proposed to at
fea only those nations with whom we
have no treaties, We have commercial
treaties with Prullia, Sweden, France and
Holland, and in the dominions of neither
of those powers, have our (hips or the pro
duce of this country (except in the fi-tgfe
article of our Oil in France) been admit
ted on any more favorable terms than the
(hips or produce of any other nation, and
for this obvious reason because our trea
ties only ensure the advantages they may
grant to the mod favored nation; and being
circumltanced in such a manner as not
judging it for their interest, to diftinguiju
any one by its favors—we are left only
in the enjoyment of a trade with them
on the terms common to all other nations
This being the cafe, I would not give
on', farthing to have like treaties formed
with every other nation, for they have
not been and never can be of any fei #ice
to us—if we expect to derive any advan
tage from commercial treaties, we must
stipulate for fomc certain good, for some
other good which we may grant them in
return.
But it 19 said, Mr. Chairman, we are
particularly injured by the commercial re
ftridions of Great Biitain—the fact is,
we en'oy in our trade with that country,
all the advantages of commerce and in
some instances greater, than they grant to
any other nation. Our pot ash and fcvc
ral other articles pay a less duty in Great
Britain than the like articles do from any
other country, and in no in (lance do I 'oe
lieve they pay greater. Our Ir.ips are al
lowed generally, to carry to Great Bri
tain and Ireland the productions of thi#
country UII the fnme terms their own ships
do. We have also free admiflion into
their extensive territories in India ; where
I they prohibit the (hips of their own coun-
I try, unless they belong to their India com-
party.
It is true our commerce is cramped by
a refufal of our Chi pi into their colonies
of Nova-Scotia, Canada, Newfoundland,
tlicir Well India islands, which ii the ouW
evil of a commercial kind, we have to
complain of in their reputations. But
this is not an evil in consequence of dif
tinguiftiing us from any other nation ; —
they deny that privilege to all others, *nd
it has taken effect as it relates to u» in
consequence of our becoming an indepen
dent nation. The evil of being prohibi
ted their colonies arises from the existing
circumstance* of things—their contiguity
to the United States, compels them to
carry on a coniiderable trade with u» for
supplies, and in which it is but just we
{hould be partakers, and if we mean to
redress this evil, we (hould point out mem
fures to that object —and fay, no foreign
{hips (hall come to the United States,
from any place, where our Slips are pro
hibited, or, if they do come, they (hould
come under some peculiar disadvantages
—this would be meeting the evil direct.
If we raise the duties on their manufac
tures imported into this country, as is
proposed by the resolutions now under
consideration, with a view of compelling
them to be more liberal in their commer
cial irrangemcnts with us, we (hall surely
rail* our aim—for it is certain France in
her present Situation is by no means able
to supply us, whatever (he may do hereaf
ter. No other country, at present, but
Great Britain can supply us—it therefore
follows, undeniably, if such be the fact,
that if we import their goods and lay an
additional duty on them, the blow aimed
at them will fall on us, by raifmg the price
to the consumers in this country eo/ial to
the proposed additional duty.
It is said the chics of the foreign ton
nage that comes to this country, is Bri
ti(h, and this is an evil; if our object is to
promote our own navigation, I (hould
suppose the evil confided in having our
trade so much carried on in foreign bot
toms, and not as belonging to one or ano
ther foreign nation ; and if we meant
further to encourage our ws
ought to raise the tonnage duty on all fo
reign {hipping —this would be . coming to
the obi'.ft. But how comes it we have so
manv more British (hips than others—have
we granted them a monopoly . or may
pot the (hips of every Other nation-come
here on the fame terms they do ?—the
reason then why there are so many more
liritilh than other foreign (hips which
come here, is not becaufewe have encou
raged it by any regulations we have adopt
ed! but becaule they are a more enter
prising commercial people than their
neighbors, and from other causes which
will ever influence and dircift commerce.
It is also mentioned that aconfiderabk
part of the products of this country (hip
ped to Great-Britain, is not confunled
there, but re-fliipped to other countries,
and that we ought to make fach regula
tions as th-.t such excefa should pass di
rectly to the country where they are con-'
fumed, without their firlt going thro .jh
Grqrt-Britain.
I fhouM think it strange n any One
was to refufis felling an article, becaule he
underilood the peiion who wanted to pur
chase it, would, not be the consumer, hut
lie would afterwards fell it to a.iolhcr
this would not certainly influence, and
ought not. Let us examine and fee whe
ther our navigation ha 3 received any en
couragement by the regulations already
adopted by this government —In I 790,
our navigation' was but little more than
one half of all the tonnage entered in th_
United States; in 179 1 > was three
fifth#, and in 1792 it was nearly two
| thirds. Foreign tonnage has actually de
creased iince that period I 4,Q09 tons,
while ouis has increaied 171,000 tons.
If the iucreafe is not fufficient, then we
must incr«afe the tonnage duty on foreign
snipping, and take fiich other measures as
I have hinted at t*> promote the object ;
though, I confefsjfuc 1 ! is our delicate situ
ation at this time, I am inclined to believe
exjierhnents are hazardous > and 1 ftioiild
be strongly apprehensive, if we pals any
rcftri&ive l?w? at thi<i time, that (hc-.l afr
feft Great-Britain only, as is the avowed
object of the resolutions before % such is
her close alliance with moll of the Euro
pean nation*, and efpeciaiiy with Spain,
that Ihe will l>e fully able to influence
iome of them at least, and Spain in parti
cular (who is not very friendly) to be as
sociated with her in any count** regulati
on* tin. niay think proper 10 pursue by way
of retaliation.
Mr. Clark differed from many members
who had spoken before him, in the view
they took of the fubjeft ; he conceived,
it ought to be confidcred in a political
light. Wc had many wrongs to complain
of and we should endeavor to obtain re
drefc ; the English have violated our trea
ty, just after it was ratified, by taking
amy our negroes, and since by holding
our pofb ; they have also set the savage*
on our back* and have not they let loose
the Algvr.i.n upon us ? Shall we fit still
and bear it. How can we help it, it is
asked ? They wiil retaliate wc are told.
How retaliate ? will they refufe to fell us
tlieir manufactures ? He remembered that
efenin old times, an non-importation agree
ment made them repeal their damp act.
We have surely as well now as wc had
then a right not to buy their goods; we
dont want to cram our provisions down
their throats or to force them to buy our
lumber. During the non-importation a
greenient, wc did not peri!h with cold ;
we found even then that among ourselves
we could make wherewith to clothe our
selves ; we are surely as able to do it now.
We then gained our point, we should now
be much more powerful with the fame
weapon; many of her manufacturers arc
already llarving for want of emplovment.
We (hould add greatly to their distress,
and soon bring the government to their
senses', and they will be glad to enter into
a commercial treaty with us.
Thc balance of trade with Great-Bri
tain is much egainft us, and by carrying
to Portugal and Spain what we fend to
them we fnould receive cash in return.
France will not always be in a storm, and
a supply of the manufactured articles wa
want may soon be received from tha'. quar-
He did not fee to what purppfe calcu
lations three hours long had been brought
forward. It was very well for merchants
to calculate in their counting houses; but
he conceived the Legislature fhouldxlc
termine the queltion upon political confl
agrations. He concluded.bv remarking,
that he believed bv this time the cornmit
\>tee mail pretty clearly fee that he was in
Tavor of the refutations.
Me. Smith, (M.) rose, especially to
make lome reply to an ohfervation which
5/ad fallen from a member from Pennfylva-
Qia, (Mr. Findley) ydterday. That gen
tleman had remarked, that those merchants
who were not dependent on foreign cre
dit but on their own capital were in favor
of the refutations. He was not furpri
zid, he said, that merehants at f:rit view
ihould approve of them ; he owned, that
a: firlt view he was under that iinprefiion ;
but he was unwilling to make up his mind
before a mature inveltjgation of the fub
jecl, and he believed, that those very mer
chants would be of his opinion did they
take the pains he had taken to be well
informed. The last refohittorl in partic'fl-
I:ir, he remarked, is well calculated to bi
as those who had furfered from piratical
'■whations, he had felt an impreflion from
it, for he was liable like other men to be
warped by wtereft, he imagined; he had
faltered fevercly from those depredations,
tho' the gentleman from Pennfylvanja
seemed to iiifiijnate, (and he found that
what he had said was so understood out
of doors) that he was one of those mer
chants who traded upon British credit;
yet, he had loft as much by those spolia
tions as that gentleman would think a
hardfome fortune for his foil.
Mr. l'indley assured the gentleman that
his observation was a general one and that
he had no eye to what might be his mer
cantile si tuition.
Mr. Smith (Hid, thit knowing the cap
('.id not fit him he fhotild not have taken
): up if he hsd not heard whifper6 of its
being intended for him. There was how
ever a time when it would have fitted him.
He facrificed his fortune in the service of
his countrv, when (trugling for indepen
dence ; when that boon was obtained, his
industry and commercial entciprize alone
remained ; these assisted by that credit so
much deprecated enabled him to make an
other, and to be in a Otuation again to
fcrve his country. The character of mer
chants is generally not properly apprecia
ted, they are conlidered as intfcrefted and
narrow minded. These are not the cha
racterise features of the American mer
chant at least. He pa.Ted a handsome en
comium on their general information, and
enterpriztt.
He was not fnrprized, he said, to hear
that Come merchants (hould advocate the
refutations; if thry affected the credit we
are able to obtain in Great-Britain, the
merchant of great capital only could trade,
a complcat commercial aristocracy would
be eflabliihed. Young men with small
capitals, would not be able to embark in
trade, the wealthy trader would engross
the whole, and instead of i o*per cent now
received, 25 would be extorted. It is no
hardlhip to the young trader to make use
of Britilh capital paying an interest of 5
per cent when he co>:ld borrow the mo
ney uo where else, and must remain idle
without it.
He concluded by a few general obfer
vat'ons on the balance of trade and the
propriety of permitting commerce to find
its ow:i level. To he continued.
UNITED STATES.
BOSTON, January 15,
We are told that the following melan
cholly event took place yesterday: A son of
Mr. Cox, the celebrated Architect, in
viewing a wild Panther, which a (hew-man
bad in his possession, in Medford, was sud
denly fcized by the voracious animal, and
his head and face torn in so (hocking a
manner, that his death would be a consola
tion to his desponding relatives. The
of the animal was so great, that
5 persons could hardly disengage its teeth
and claws from the unhappy vi£lim of its
rage. It is hoped the Legislature will
provide by lew, for the security of the
lives of people, that if persons will endea
vor to obtain money, by the (hew of wild
beads, that they may be properly confm-
Ed in cages,
EASTON, (Maryland)
The Following parage, from a very cele
brated writer, with some exceptions to the
Words M'-narcbs and Throne, because the
science of government is better understood
at this time of day, may be considered as
applicable to the present unhappy state of
our Gallic Friends and their enemies, from
whence we may venture to predict their
happy tranfi'.ion from error to Truth, and
from anarchy to good government fotind-
Ed on the true principles of Liberty and
Equality.
" The violent shock between a mass of
errors ufeful to t <e free, and powerful,
and the truths 10 important to the many
and the weak, with the fermentation of
paßlons excited on that occasion, are pro
ductive of infinite evils to unhappy mor
tals. In the fhidy ofhiftory, whole prin
cipal periods, after certain intervals, much
refembfe each other, we frequently find,
m the necessary parage from obfeurity of
ignorance to the kj'it of philosophy, and
from tyranny to liberty, its natuial con
fequenee, one generation facriiiced to the
happiness of the But when this
flame is extinguished, ard the world de
livered from its evils, truth, after a very
flow progress, fits down with" monafchs
on the throne, and is worshipped in the
aflTemblies of nations.—Shall we then be
lieve, that light diiTufcd among the peo
ple is mqre destructive than darkness, and
that the knowledge of the relation of
things can ever be fatal to mankind !"
NEW-YORK, January 24.
The Times, a London paper, of Nov.
14, fays—" Thomas Paine has left Paris
and failed for America, the asylum for all
emigrant politicians."
It having been mentioned in the daily
pap-rs, " that a child had presented a
forged check at the Branch Bank, and
received thereon 50 dollars : We are au
thorised to fay—That this Child was a
(lout, cunning lad, who had probably for
ged the check himfelf, and who, on pre
senting it, and being closely questioned,
attempted to fly, hut v.t.s piirfueil, tafceit,
carried before the M-.yor and committed
to gaol—No money was paid on the
check.
Extract of a letter from London, to an
Anglo-American merchant in this city.
London, Sept. 30, 1793
" Your excellent letter, containing a
very pleasing account of your reception in
America, together with your general ob
servations on the noble simplicity of repub
lican manner#, and the beantiea of the
country, raised in my mind a f«t of feeling*
more ardent and more fublirne than I had
fdt for some time—for you well know the
miserable din and clang of politic* witich
constantly assault our ear*, and crucirjr.our
feelings here—our bell face* grin but a
ghallly smile, compared with ytwra.
" I observe your mind, (so accuftoru
ed to political invcftigation) feel* a ge
nerous expanse in that clime which it con
genial to your nature. I cannot consider
you as an Exotic in America, you are a
Native tif that pure air of freedom which
they breathe. Your intervie-r with the
President George Washington, must have
afforded you the most exalted pleasure—l
recognized in the true features that il
lustrious man, whose character throws in
to (hade most of the splendid names in the
world, and I formed a wi(h to enjoy the
fame gratification at feme future period.
" 1 think I the noble simplicity
of your p\il>lic assemblies in that rational
and dignified method of business you fa
well describe : disdaining the Imposture
and Artifice of some European govern
ments, they never feel what is called the
State Neceflity of pra&ifing them. One
of the peculiar excellencies of your govern
ment is, that it affords few temptations
to alienate the Governors from their duty,
and few means of rendering corruption pa
latable to the Governed. In the piefent
imperfect (late of man, we must produce
virtue by destroying the alluiementi of
vice. I apply this remark to our political
fy Items—remember the infamy of Electi
on Jobs in a country you once knew—.iot
only the Elected but the Ele&ors become
corrupt: they like the poison that cor
rodes their own vitals ; there i»a£tion and
reaction of vice between government and
the people, which produces a Body of In
iquity that pollutes the whole land. The
excellence of your constitutions will, I
doubt not, produce oppofitc effedis—the
opportunity of debasing each other v.'ill
ftldom
" 1 am far from supposing that in an
Improved state of Society such compara
tively low motives to public virtue will be
necefiary. The relative duties of society
I trust will be so well understood, the 1-
dea: of general justice so strong in the hu
man character, and the divine principle of
doing to others as we wish they (hould do
unto us, be so operative that the practice
of it will be uuiverfal. At present we are
only Children in practical Knowlidge, and
Babes in the Practice of it. The great
principle, that the Only end of good go
vcrr.ment is the Happiness of the Govern
ed, will, like the lea of eternal truth, e
ventually swallow up the llreams of error
and corruption, and produce a sum total
of human felicity not yet to be calculated.
" You taste at present a happy Earnest
of this felicity in America, and I know
of no country more likely to realize thdfe
enjoyments. The providence of God,
soon after its dlfcovery, pointed it out as
an afylnm for those brave and profeciited
Worthies, of whom Europe was not wor
thy—again you are a witness and a par
taker of the fame benefits Communicated
by that happy country. All Hail !
America, bicfied are thy friendly (bores
-bat welcome the opprefiTtd Sons of Free
dom ! blefTed is the raemoi-y of those Citi
zens whose blood purchased its independ
ence ! blessed be that hand who railed up
and preserved one diftinguiflied Patriot
through' that arduous contest to conduct
her to the joys of peace and good govern
ment ! We mayjuftly anticipate the prof
pecft of feeing thy exteniive climes explore',
and peopled by unnumbered millions, all
under the dominion of that Prince, whose
gospel speaks peace on earth and good
will towards men !
" Aridocracies and Heirarcbies alrea
dy (land aguail to hear that your country
affords such benefit* to man without Their
benign influence. To hear the wild and
arrogant boasts of fouic refpettiug their
particular conftitutioni ; you would think
that nature would not yield her accuilom
ed bounties but where They exist ; and
yet 1 understand Ycur rivers flow, and the
earth holds not D ick her increase.
" I congratulate your country on the
acccflion of learning and talents which it
will receive by the arrival of Mr. Cooper,
late of Maacliefter: He has failed, and I
suppose will soon be with you ; and I be
lieve I)r. Priestley is fully determined to
cross the Atlantic in the spring.—What
a number of wife and virtuous citizens will
America receive from the late perfecti
ons ! They will doubtlefsadd much to its
wealth and prosperity. I fay to you, not
with the authority, but with the langtiage
of an apoftlr, Salute the Brethren..
" With refpeft to the general complex
ion of a flairs, you will discover that from
the puhlic printa, better than 1 can detail
their.. Tli* misery, though Very great,
doe* not feean fuicient to produce much
wiiiioin.. All miitifterial cries are dill e
chucd by Bull—indeed he lw\d -fiu
committed lumfelf iuto the handj of the
minister, that his Pride forbids complaint.
Horridabeiia i» iillpurfued with unabating
fury, and apparently, far from a termina
tion—Surely, Thi» Blood (hall be requir
ed at theirheads!"
Extract of a letter from Philadelphia,
dated January 21
" A Wealthy Planter of St. Domingo,
arrived here three days ago from Havana,
declares, that 6,500 Troops, of the Spa
nish Line, had arrived at that port, two
days before he left it, and that he few the
whole of them disembark. These forces
are destined to co-operate immediately,
with their Allies the British, against the
French, cn the Island of St. Domingo."
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 28.
From Correspondents.
An Extract.
IT lias been remarked, and probably
with a degree of truth, that some of the
people who have but lately made their es
cape from the bondage of the Old Coun
tries and Governments of Europe, to this
land of liberty, arc more difpolcd to lieen
tioufnefs, while they {hew a greater desire
to dictate to the Americans about the af
fair* of government,than perhaptany other
set of m*n in the United States. Admit
ing thit is the cafe, a corrtfpor.dent wishes
to know, from whertce arises such incon
sistency ? and if, at the fame time, thit it
i* an evidence of their vanity, it does not
•lfo prove that their minds, their manners,
an<l habits, at yet partake of the govern
ment under which they weri formed ; and
that liberty under a Republic, is a happi
ness which such men are not immediately
capable of enjoying, even fuppofmg them
to be worthy of it—whether they are not
apt to play the tyrant in their manner and
cotiverfation, while their ckmoui s refpeft
ing liberty are purposely carried to an ex
treme, leji ivc Jhould fufpe3 their JJncerity.
Our confident faction sometimes make
a racket about European connexions.—
We have nothing to do, fay they, with
their foolifh v.-;-?,their wafts cf blood ar*d
money—Let America court pecce ; fo
reign exampksare not adapted to the rules
of our policy, to the purity of our mo
rals.
~ This was the cant when it cculd be
turned againfl any of the "measures of the
general government—Witneli the - fczn-Ja*
lout ftyk of lalt winter's publications.
The lalt fix months produced event*,
which obliged the''very fame fadiou to ;;i
---tei their note.
Behold France-—hercaufe is oiircanfe,
said they. We mull connect cmrielveß
closely.with France. Her miniver, the
fame good man who has donefo much not
only to excite a war,, but to wage it, favs,
Form a family compa& with France—the
faction crics Anien. Our purity of mo
rals will be doubly refined by the imitation
of French examples; we (hall become
lambs for innocence.
Good men and true I mark it well—■
that the failion who pretend to he the
friends of the people, and who expect to
prove that they svre such, by (hewing that
they are enemies of their government —
theft men change their note at least once a
year.
Peace, peace, fay they, jvhen our fron
tiers and fea-ooafts and \e!Tels are to be
defended agninfl the Indians and Ade
lines. Spirit, deciiion, European con
nections, is the cry, when projects
are to be prosecuted.
It is a fact well known, favs a corref-'
pondent, that a very fericus alarm took
place last Summer- in London, among the
American merchants, on account of a ru.
rnor that heftile measures were impending
on the part of Great-Britain, againfl tin's
country —That alarm afterwards subsided ;
and many letters from that country pub
lished several weeks since, announced that
it was in consequence of the Proclamation
of Neutrality.
From a Paper.
We hear from Favettevi'le that his ex
cellency Richard Dobbs Spaight, Esq.
has been re-eiefted governor of this (late
for the next year.
The lion. James Coor, Wm. M'Clure,
Joseph Brickie. Thos. Brown,
Armftead, John Branch, and Richard
Nixon are appointed counsellors of ft ate.
The next general will tit in
compliance with the ordinance of the con
vention in the city of Raleigh.
For the Gazkttk of the United Stjim
MR. FF.nno,
THE extract of a letter from London,
dated November 2d, 1723, publithed in
your's and Mr. Brown's Gazette of tail
evening, is a manifeit and palpable fabri
cation, made up in this city,' by fume ] ri
tilh agent or partisan, with a design to
deceive members of Congiefs, and mificad
the public mind on the fubjeft of Mr.
Madison's propositions, now depending
before the Houfc of Representatives ; in
proof of this, it is only necefiary to remark,
00 the circumilance of the supposed letter
wi iter's knowledge of Mr.Pinckncy's (the
American Miniiler) remonflrance to the
Britiih Court, on tlie subjeCt of hojl'de
mcafures rejoined cn, (as the letter writer
fays) by that Courtagainfl the
when it is known by Mr. Finekney'aco.; -
refpondence now befi.re Congress, that no
such circumstance ever occurred—And
surely if the President of the United State*
ever knew of such a eircmnftar.ee, be would
not have failed to communicate it to Crn
grefrt—he has not done so, arid tbereft, z,
falfehood is stamped on every word of the
extratl in question.
L,et it be alio remarked, that tlie f M
extract contains a direct censure ngai--.lt
the conduct of the President of the United
States, for having withheld from
information so important and material for
them to know
Philad. 28th Jan. 1794.
*m * This day's pre:euli>:gs of Cvigrft
are ur.axouLibly 1 muted.
" 'Ju"ire," imsit exc'jf? the omif
f:on cf his performance—" Vks whole of
the petitioneri seem infer;libit- to the calls of
mercy, juitics and hiimii:K»"—" T"'i
eternal declamation of a set ct V-nr-bir, ned
enthusiast*" " Screech Owls"—" ii i
venlv ranters and holy mud me::"—" Ho
ly batteries" &c. aie phralts which occur
-in his Speculation—and are not <-:i!y irre
lative to the meritt of the que it ion—but
will not perhaps be jaflii.ed by or.i. c-uiQ»i
advocate for the i'heatrt.
TRUTH.LONDON, Nov, I f
TRI A .I. COMOEMN ATI ON AND EXECU
TION OF BRISSOT.
AHd the other arretted Deputies.
The following are tlie chargcs against Brif
fot and liis accomplices, contained in the
of Accusation presented to the ' atioiial Con
vention by A mar, in the nam.- of the Commit
nee of General Safety :
' Briltot, Agent to the Ponce under Kings,
diforaccd on account ot his bale intrigues un
tier the ancient government <>r Vigi'Mce of the
Commons of Paris, in the beginning o! the
Revolution, through the cred't of La Fayette,
has for i Song time past prostituted h,s pun and
his public duty in favour of that General wh..fe
lcfignatioO he reprel'ented as a public calamity,
and has at all times fliswn himfelf an enemy
to the popular Societies.
He went to the Jocobins to prepare the ruin
of the Colonies, to bring forward the day ot
the Chamn de Mars, where the be a patriots
mere affaflinated by older of l-a Fayette, and
*, r>r--ach up war with a view to dsOroy the
tiu 't infant liberty of the nation.
At the 1 egiflative ffemhly he coalesced
with Condorcet and th» Girondirts, who only
contrived to gain the favour of the People on
occasions of fmsll importance, with a view to
• abandon them on great ones.
The Court made use of their influence to
f ] lare war at a mwment when the armies and
th,■ fortified places were in a state of abfolate
want, or entvulleil to traitor* choftn by a per
il,re.' Kill.?. 'rhev piotefled N»r onne, the
Mintfler, whom ail France acctifed of the mea-
Cures tak-n to render this war fatal to liberty ;
and in their Journals they calumniated the Pa
rrots who had thtf coma-re to refi't them.
Thev defended DiettiiVh, convicted] of be- <
in,r an accomplice with I a Fayette, and of ha
vine offered to give up Straifcourg ; and while
th ' CbVrfs of that faction protected the con
foira'ors and traitorous Generals, the patriotic
soldiers were profcrihed, and the volunteers of
Par's frnt to he butchered.
Purine the "irae we were surrounded by the
fctdl'ite«of despots, when the court was going
t r .., Pn ,l 1 (. irate? of France to their., act. r ha
vi; canfed the intrepid defenders of Liberty
to "he nmrdtred at Paris, Briflot and his accnm
p]ice« did all thev could to the ge
iierous efforts of the people, and to save the
tviant During and after the unhappy insurrec
tion of the -oth of Aug lift, they endeavoured
to prevent the abdication of Louis the Xv I.
and to preserve to him the crow .
In 'he night of the /oth ot A .ri£uft t Petion,
shot tip in the Thmileries, consulted with the
satellites of tyrant, the plan to nisflacred the
people, 3ud»ave orders to Martlet,commander
of the national guards, to l er tbe people come
in and then to cannonade them in the rear. A
few diys before Genfotme and Verpniaud cn
rrnc.-ed t" defend Louis XV(. on condition that
the three Mini'ters, Roland, 'and Scr*.
van \v< re recall d. I
Petionand La Sonrce man'? ufi? oF all their )
mean to fend .he fedo »n-« from Paris Briflst, .
KeHaint af«s R-yver, arcoi.'ir Jto the letters
found in the T I.ufl'u ries, gave J,iid advice ta
the Tyrant, and in defiance of the '.aws, they
dared to solicit places in tht inißry. under a
promise to extend the deflrufiive authorities o<
the defpat. , . ,
The prrjeft to overturn the fouauation of
the Republic, and to murder the friends of li
berty, was put in prafiice in the legislative al
f-mb!y, by BrilTot, in hid infiduons harangue
on the 20th July 1792, oppoHng tl.e abdication
of the throne We have feea Briilot and Ins
accomplices Republicans under monarchy, and
Ro-ahfts under'he Uepublic ; always constant
in their dtftgns to ruin the i rench nation, and
to abandon it ro its enemies. At the time the
hypocritical tyrant, Louis the XVI. came into
the ffembly to accuse tlie people, whole mal
facre he had prepared, Vergniaud like a trut
acronv lice of the tyrant, told him, " that thr
affembij held it to be one of their moli fscrer
dutirs, to maintain ail con ituted authorities,
and c nfequently that of royalty.
When the attorney general, Radcrer, came
to announce with the accent of grief, that the
ei izens in inforrefiior, hid taken the rrfolutioi,
not to (eparate till the . ITemMy had pronoun
c d the forfeiture of the Crewn, Vrelidtnt
Vergniaud silenced the zpplaul'es from the gal
lories by telling them, that they violated the
law, in obftru&injc the freedom ot opinion,and
he told Raderer, thai the afl'anbly was going
to take into immediate coniideration, thepro
pola: which he, Vergniaud, had made, <hew
reg the ueceffity of preserving th« exiflencc of
the King.
Kerfaint seconded the motion. Geradet pro
pole>! to liberate Mandat, who wis arretted for
having given orders to fire on the people ; or
in the^event that that commander was no more,
to fend a deputation of twelve Girondist Mem
bers, authoril'ed to choose his fucctfl'or, in or
der bv this means to ktep the public force at
the of that roifchievous funiStion.
!n 1 hat memorable fitting ot the loth of An
gi.ft [he Girondist chiefs, Vergniaud, Gua
det, and Genfonne, took by turns the Chair,
and went to the galleries to slacken the energy
of she people, and to lave Royalty, under the
fhie'd of the pretended Cocllitution. I hey
spoke ot nothing but obedience to the confti
ruri'rtial Laws, to these Citizens that came to
the iiarto protect their newly acquired .Liber-
t Y*
When the Municipality came to invite the
Afliml>!y to fend tiie proces-verbal of the
great operations of tneictkof iugufl, in or
der to prevent the calcnuiits of the enemies of
liliertv, Gusdet interrupted the members who
made that demand, by making a motion to
recommend anew to the Magi ftrates the execu
tion of the laws. He blamed the council of
the Commune for having confined Petion in
his own house ; though they did it in order to
rendu it impuffible for that impostor to make
even li.furreaion subservient to afi againC li-
V/fcen a deputation from the suburb St. An-
rji'liwp» tb* fivir affliction of
en the mode of teaching the Deaf", or Surd
the widows and children maffacied o.i .list
•iiy, the jcrfidio... Cadet cool.y anfeettd
them. "'i hat tiic Cembly hoped to rettore
public tranquillity and Wt reign ot the la«s.
Vereniaud, >» the name of the txtraord.na.
ry commili.rm, riirei'led by that laition, pro
pofid the iufueulion of 'l' e Ki "?> w ' lu h , '
detl toned bv tin? prop e, as a limple con erv
torv jot of royalty : ami 1 tmed .greatly affec
ted' at the evenis uh'-ch had fcwed the c> uuU>*
and operated tlr; ruiilof the tyrants, > e up..
poled CfyiVdiln'a molioii, tending to cxdlll,e
f.-otn the Coi. vent Mi the members ot both the
l.rf iila-iv- and ConlH'i ent Aflembhes : a .cl
with the lime cunning he prevail ed the regil
tersof the Civil l.ili f.oui being deptilited on
the able ,
Ouadet willed to have a Gorernor named to
the foil of the laic King, whom he c a.led the
1 riuce Royal. !Sr ; ,ffot ai <1 h:i accomplices al
ways affected to invoke the literal execution ct
the con'.litutiou, while the people in the nanic
of the martvrs who lell befoie the v aMe «1 tht
" hnil!tries,"demanded t..e compile overthrow
of tin tyrant. .
Vimmau ! oppnf:d this demand, laying, that
the people -f "l'a-is were W a ftftiftn of the
Empire, and affeifed tooppofe i' ill this manner
re the Department* tie likevvile rcfifttd the
p.-i lon made i»y the commons to put the 'yrant
under anett. He uled all his effort. wirh B.if-
lot, Petionand Manuel, to get Louis XV i. con
fined in the Luxem ourg, from whence itwould
have been easier for him to eicape, than out ol
the l ower of the Temple. x
Oeufotmc and Gauclct had the fervidly to
puMiih.at different limes, that Louis XVI had
commanded the Swift not to lire upon the peo-
ple.—From that time, the leaders of the Giron
di s. (Departmeut of Bourdeaux), compelled
to praiie the events o 7 the 10th of August, con
tinued, notwithstanding, to undermine the Re«
pu'dic. lhev published the fever eft satires a
<jamft the commons and People of Paris, and
in general apamft all those who c*»ntriouted to
the lied of monarchy. Roland's house
was rilled with pnekets of libels, which were to
be di'tr ini'ed among the people, and sent into
the Dep.irtfr.entss
i i :y nun prntcfted a'! the confpira«
tors, favoured the progress of Brunfwick with
all their power, and were the agents of the
f.ngliih laiftion which has exerted io fata! an
influence during the course ef our Revolution.
Carra wa* in league with certain ckara&era ot
the Court of Berlin. In hi® Journal Poiique
of the 25th of Augult, 1791, he formed a v ifh,
on account of the marriage of the l)uiic of York
with the Princess of Prutlia, " that the Duke
might become Grand Duke of v\i h
all the powei> of thr? king of the 1" reiich." '•>'< hile
Brunfwick was preparing to decide the fate of
the Trench nation by the force of arms, Carra
in the fameJoi.rn.il him as a great
c«mn>nnder, the g'eatefl politician, the mofk
; amiable Prime in Europe, formed to be the rc
fiorer of liberty in a 1 nations.- I'e published,
1 that the D&ke, 6n J.is arrival at Paris, would
go to ihe jacobins & put on thf red cap, in or
der to toflrefl tlx- pd»pie i'l favour ot this f-tcl
lite of tyrants. Finally, Carra was so audacious
as to pro pole openly to the jaCobius, for the.
Dulce of Yoi k to he King of the French.
From these and many other fa&s too'tedious
to mention, there refoits, that (arra and his
aflociates were iniquitous and deep difleniblers,
pensioned bv Kngiand, Pruflia, and Holland, to
Enable a Prince of that family wnich rules over
theft countries, to obtain the crown of France.
This lame Carra, together with Si lery-, the
diihotiortfd confident of a contemptible Prince,
was sent by the then reigning fa&ian to Du
mourier. to compleat that fre&ifen which saved
the almost ruined army of the Prufiian delpot.
Dumourier cam* fwddeuly to Paris to concert
with Briffot, Petioo, Guadet, Genfonne, and
Carra, the pcrfidicn expedition into the Anf
trian Netherlands, which he undertook when
I the Pruflun army wafting away by contagious
disorders, wa* peaceably retiring—while the
French army was burning with indignation at
the inaction in which tliey were kept
It was not the fault »f this tV&ion, if the mo
tion « ♦<*« ma'le by ( arra to receive Brunlwtck
at Pari , was not real zed. He mediated in
the beginning of September r 79a, to deliver up
fhis city w thout means of defence, by flying
beyond the river Loire, with the I.egiflative
Afiembly, with the Executive Council, and
with the captive King. lie was fupprted in it
by Roland, Claviere, and l e Brun, the crea
tures and iuftruments of Briffot and his accom
pices. # L
I But these perfidious Ministers, having been
J threatened by one of their colleagues to be der-
I nounred to the people, it was then that Carra
and Sillrry were sent to Dumourier, to autfco
rife this General to negociate with Frederick
William to enable this I'rincc to get out of the
kingdom, orv condition that he Ihould leave the
Netherlands without the fufficien? means of de
f.nce, and delivered them up to the numerous
and triumphant armies of FTance.
1 he calumnious harrangues that were made
in the tribunes, were prepared, or fanCtior.ed at
Rohiid's, or in the niCciiiigs ihat were held at
Valaze's and Pecion's. I l|"ey proposed to mr
render the Convention with a Pretorian guard,
under the name of Departmental Force, which
was to be the balls of their foederal system. In
the 1 .egiflative Aliembly they mentioned a
flight beyond the Loire, with the Aflemb y, the
Executive Council, the Royal Family, and the
public treafur?. Kerfaiut, at his return from
Sedan, dnred to propose this projeA to the Ex
ecutive Council; and it was iupported by Ro
land, Claviere, and i.c Bruft, the creator* and
iaftruments of Briffot.
') hi fadion (trove to put off the judgment of
the tyrant by impeding the dif utiion. They
appointed acommiflion of twenty f< ur members
to examine the papers found in the Thuilleries,
in the guilt of which some of these members
were implicated ; and they endeavoured, in
concert with Roland, to conceal those which
tended to discover their tranfa&ion with the
1 ourt They voted for the appeal to the people,
wh>ch would have been a germ oi civil war, and
afterwards wanted a respite to the judgment.
They inceflahtly repeated, that the Conven
tion could do bo £ood,and that it was not free.
JUIH,* inr«
These declamations milled the department, and
induced tliem to form a coalition, which was
near being fatal to lrance.
I hey patronized an incivic piece, entitled,
L'ami des l.ois.
On the 14th of January, Barbarous and his
friends had given orders to the battalion ot
Marfeillois, to iurround the Convention.
On the aoth, Viladi wrote to the other De
puties- To-morrow in arms to the Convents
ou-* he is a coward who does not appear there.
Brillot, tfrer the condemnation of l.ouis C a
pet, censured the Convention, and threatened
France with the vengeance of European kings.
When it was his object to bring or. war, lie
fj'ukc in an opposite sense, and treated the
dov nfall of all thronts, and the conquest of the
universe, as the (port of the French nation. Be.
ing the "rgan of the Diplomatic committee,
campofed aTniotl entirely of the fame facSion, he
proposed war suddenly agaiuft England, Hol
land, and all the powers that had not then de
clared themselves.
This fi&ion a<£ted in coalition with perfidious
Generals, particularly with Dumouricr, Gen
fonnet held a daily correspondence with him :
Peticn was his friend. He avowed hinifelf the
Counsellor of the Orleans party, and had con
nexion with Sillery and his wife.
After the revolt of Dumouricr, Vergniaud,
Gaudet, Brifl'ot and Genfonne, wiflied to jufti
fy his conduct to the committee ol General De
fence. afl'erting that the denunciations made
againll him by the Jacobins and the Mountain
were the caßie of his conduit; and that Du
mourier was the prote&or of the found part ef
the Convention.-.'! his was the party of which
Petion, Brillot, Vergniaud, &c. were the
chief and orators.
When Dumourier wis declared a traitor by
the Convention, Briffot, in th- Patriote Fran
coife, as well as other writers, who were hi 9
accomplices, praised him, in defiance of the
law. As members of the committee of Gene
ral Defence, they ought to have given infor
mation relative to the preparations tkat were
nuking in I.a Vendee. The Convention, how
ever, was not made acquainted with them till
the war became htii.us.
They armed the Sections where arifiocracy
reigned, agiinlt thoie where public spirit was
triumphant.
Thcv affeiSted to beli«ve that a plot was mo,.
(Jitased hy the Republicans again.l the National
Convention, for the purpose of nlming the
Comnvfiion of Twelve, who, in an arbitrary
manner, iniprifoned the Magi I'rates of the
People, and made war against the Patriots.
linard developed the views of the confpira-
Cf, when lie used this atrocious expreflion :
" The aftonilhed traveller will leek on what
banks of the Seine Paris once flood. " The
1 onvemion dilfo'.ved the commifiion, which
however, returned its fur.&ions ou its own au
thority. and continued to ail.
The Mion, by the addrefles which it sent
to the departments armed them againtl Pans
and the Ctlftytintfoii, '1 he death of nunioers
of Patriots ill the fouthem Departments, and
particularly at Marseilles, where they per'ftied
on-the fcaffold, was the consequence of fhofe
fatai divisions in the convention, of which they
Were the authors. The deletion of Mtrfcll
les soon produced that of Lyons. Fhis impor
tant city became the fentral point ol the coun
ter..revolution in the sooth. Ihe Republican
Municipality was dispersed by the rebelt,'and
good citizeiis were miflacred. Every pur.ilh
ment that cruelty couid devise to cncreale the
torments of death was put in execution. The
jdmiiiiilrjiive bodies were leagued partly with
I.yons, and partly with foreign ariilocrats, and
with the emigrants dispersed through the
Swiss Canton^.
The Cabii.et of I.ondon afforded life ai'l
energy tcr this rebellious league. Its pretext,
was the anarchy thai reigned at Paris ; its lea
ders, the traitorous deputies of the convention.
\vhiUl they made tjiis powerful divcrfion in
favour of the tyrant* united ag3inll us, l.a Ven
dee continued to drink the blood ot the Patri
ots
Carra and Dochael were sent to this Depart
ment in quality of deputies from the National
Convention.
Carra publicly exhorted the a-lminiftrators
ol the Maine and Loire to fend troops against
Paris. Both these deputies were at the fame
time conncdtcd with the generals of the com
bined armies.
Couftard sent alio as a commiffionor, carried
his treafon&bh: projefls to iuch a length, as e
ven to furnilh supplies of provilion» and (lores
to the rebels- Ihe mifion of the parties ol this
f?(Sion sent to different parts of the Republic,
was marked by tiiniUr traitoreus measures.
Perhsps the column of Republican power
would ere this, have measured its length upon
the ground, if the coiifpirators had preserved
much longer their inordinate power On th«
lOth of August the foundation of the column
was laid, on of May, tt was prefcrved |
from deflru<stion, The accused publiflwd a
thousand letiitious addrcfles a thouland coun.i
ter-rrvolutionary libels, fui.h as that addrtfled
by Condoreet, to the Department of the Ailue.
They are the difgraceful monuments of the
tfcafon, by v Uich they hoped to involve all
fraHce in ruin.
Ducos and Fonfrede formed the flame of
the rebellion, by their corref:iondcnce and
their speeches, irt which they celebrated the
virtues of the conspirators.
Several of these confpirat rs fled, and disper
sed themselves throngh the Departments. They
cftabliftied there a kind of Nstional Cmiven.
tion, and invested the adminiftraiion with in
dependant powers ; they encircled themselves
with guards and cannon, pillaged the public
treasuries, interccped provisions that were on
the road to Jaris, and sent them to the revol
ted inhabitants of the former Province of Bri
tanny. They levied a new army, and gave
Wimp fen, degraded by his attackmeiit to ty
ranny, the command of this army.
They attempted to effefl a jun&ion with
the rebels of La Vendee, and to l'urremler to
the enemy the provinces of Britanny and Nor
mandy.
1 hey deputed affaflins to Paris, to murder
the members of th« Cor.veution, tnd particu-
larly Marrat, whose deftruflion they hi 4
folmny (Worn to accompUfh. They put a poig
nard into th.- hands of a woman who wa*ri
commended to Duperret, by BarbjrQ "* a ?*
his accomplices, *he was conveyed iM.the
gallery ol the convention, by Fauchei, the e
nemies of France exalted her as a heroine. l e
tion prononr,ci.tl her apothehs at Cau. a l
threw over the Mood-flafned form ol aflaflma
ti#n, the Snowy robe of virtue.
Girey l>upre,the colleague of RrilTot, in the
publication of the Patriot Francaifr, printed at
Caen several long.*, which invited, in a form
manner, the Citizens of Caen to arm them
(elves with poignards, far the pnipofe of tab
bing three Deputies of the Convention, who
were p»imed out by name.
Briffot fled with a lie added to his other
crimes. Had he gone to Switzerland, as ft©
f. fe palTport Hated, it would-have been lor
tne purpose of excising a new enemy againlt
France. . „
Cabaud St. Etienr.e, Robeecpi, Durrat, and
Antiboul, carried the torch of sedition into tne
Department of l.e gard and the neighbour
ing departments. Biroteau, Rouger, snd Ko
la nd, projcited their terrible plo.s m Lyons
where they poured the ample It ream ol Patrio
tic blood, by attaching to the friends of their
country, the appellation as anarchists and mon-
opolizer!. c ,
M Toulon these endeavours were luccetstu.,
and Toulonis now in the hands of the Engiifli,
The fame lot was refeiveu for Bourdeaux ami
Marfcilles. The reigning fa&ion had nuidtf
fonie overtures to Lord Hood, whale fleet they
expo&ed. The entire execution of the conspi
racy in the South waited only for the junction
of the Marfeillefe and Lyor.tfes which was
prevented by the vi&ory pained by the Uepub
lican army which produced the redu&ion of
MarfeiUe .
The measures of the conlpiratsrs were exactly
iimilar to that of the enemies of Franca, and
parricalarly of the Englito. I heir writing <hf
fered in nothing from ihofe of the llnglirh mi
niftcrs.
This day is pullsfked,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Mahkit-str est,
( Price a quarter cliillar)
A short account of ALGIERS,
Containing a delcripiion »l the climateul that
cottnw y — o! the manners and cuftams of the i-i
---ha'biiaius, and o! iheir leveial wai s againll Spam,
France, England, Holland, Venice, ana other
povifis of F.uiope, liom the usurpation ot Bar.
harolfa atid the invilion o! the Einpeior Ch..rle»
V. to the prelcnt time; with a eoncife view or
ihcoiigin of the luptuie between ALftlrßS
and the UNITED SfAILS.
MVS LY t.oirow.um icc<-u: S lif
ted or to!le£l.-d, employers fuiied witlv
comedies, houfc room}-, bosid.ogand lodging
k nted, let or procuietl—(oldier's, mariner 1 ?.,
or intiuirf m'.ii's *< ; y, lane** and claims on the
public ; (hare* in the banks, in ilie canals, and
the turnpike road ; ccilificn« gi-med by the
piblic, and the oid and 1.-ie paper momes ;
notes of hand, h'lls, lnx»d» an d morgagf £,-with
or without dtjaofits—Bought, lold, or cego
ciaied at No. 8, in foulh Sixth (Ireet, below
Market-flreet b-y FRANCIS WFll-T'E,
Whutr»nfa£t» business in tha public offii-es lor
country )«>p'e and others, by virtue of » pow
er us attorney, or by peifooal application.
December T 1. d
Notice is hereby given,
That the fubfciiber has been duly ap
pointed Administratrix on the estate r.f
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, in tlie county of Suffolk, deceased, ;>nd
has taken opon that trust, by giving
bond-; as the law direfls—and -A 1 pcrfons in.
terefted, aie defirtd to take notice accord
ingly
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
ALL persons who have anvdemands against
the Estate of His late Excellency JOHN"
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requefied ti>
exhibit the fame to the Snbfcriher, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who {land indebted to laid Estate, a t- e
rcouelted to fettle with him immediately; a> the
Aa of Limitation of Actions, which is m take
place on the firft day of Deccmbei next, will
otherwise render it neceiTary for him 10 com
mence luits igainlt thein.
JOSEPH MAY, Attort-ey
to the Adininiftrati ix.
B"fton,Nov. 1793
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
pionwealth, are requifted to infeit ttii-. in their
refpeftive newspapers, and forwa: d their ac
counts for tlie Tame, to J- M
ALL persons having any demand agairft
the Estate and Etfeft* ot Mis. MARY
SINDREY, widow, late of Frankford, Ox.
ford town (hip, in the State of Pennfylvama,
deceased; are desired to produce their ac
counts to JftCOB I.esHEK and
(in Frankford, aforel'uid,) Executors and Ad
miniftratois of the above in Older for feillr
ment. And whoever is indebted to (aid Ef
'tate, &.c. are requested to mak- payment to
the aforetaid Adininiftrators, on ot'befeie tlic
16th of March, 1794, or tlicy will be dealt
with according to law.
Frankfoit', Dec. it)
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be filJ by
Thomas Dobfon,
Price three eighths of a DoSar,
" An Enquiry into the principle*
and . tendency of certain public
measures."
January 16
tWtf
dtw