EVENING AD V E R T I S E R.
[No. 105 of Vol. V.] Friday, April 11, 1794. [Whole No. 562.)
For Amsterdam,
The new fall-failing, copper-
Wh bottomed SHIP
' Mm ADRIAN A,
fV» 'HE K. Fitzpatrick, Mailer.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or pafTage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. £3" JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794. dtf
For Norfolk Iff Fredericksburg,
LITTL E i? SA LLY ;
John Earl, Matter.
A staunch good vessel, will fail in a few
days. For freight or p fiage, apply to the
mailer on board at Chefnut street wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONT & SON.
March 31. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
, A NT)RO MAC HE.
(An American bottom )
i. John Moore, Majier.
IS a ft out good veffe!, about two years old,
burthen 232 tons, ha? only made three voy
ages, and may be lent to iea at \ ftnall ex
per.ee. She may be fee 11 at Vine-fti'eet wharf,
ami the made kilown b* aof>hc3tion to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
March 2i. dtf
Tm Profits arifingfrom the following publi
cation are for the benefit of the Poor.
Just published, printed by R. Aitkeri and
Son, and fold by J. Cruklhank, W. Young
T. Doblon, and the other Booksellers,
MINUTES
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed on the 14th September 1793, by
the Citizens of Philadelphta, the Northern
Liberties, and the Diftrift of Soqthwark,
to attend to and alleviate the fuffenngs of
the afflicted with the Malignant Fever,pre
valent, in the City and it* vicinity.
fVITH AN APPENDIX,
* CONTAINING
A lift of persons admitted into the Hospi
tal at Bufti hill, shewing the times of their
admiflion, death and discharge.
Number of Houses, Deaths, &c. in the
refpe&ive streets, alleys, and courts in the
city of Philadelphia, Northern Liberties, and
DiflxlA of Southwark.
A lift of the Interments in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia, Northern
Liberties, and Diftrift of Soutlnvark, with a
meteorological account of the weather.
A fumniary of donations in calh and provi
fious, received from sundry persons and pla
ces, for the ufjof the poor and affii&ed.
April 2. d^w
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glajs Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious Jizes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, life. Esfi.
FORi.SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-meritionecf Ship is for Sale
Shouldapplication be made within a few days ;
- otherwise she will take freight for Amfler
dam.
March r, 17941 d—tf
TO BITSOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
°f the city, in size or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23. m&t h— tf
IMPORTED
In the Brig George and Harriot, from
Havre de Grace,
AND FOR SALE BY
Louis Ofmont,
A PERFECT
j Aflortment of Hanging Paper,
high coloured and plain.
| White (ilk Stockings, high dressed and put
up EngliHi fifhion.
The haudfomeft artificial Flowers and Fea
thers.
Some Looking Glass Plates to be fold by the
cafe.
A few hampers of Chanfpaigne wine fix
years old.
' > ALSO,
An elegant parcel of
Bearikin MulTs,
r And very beautiful Silk Cloaks, which on
account of the season will be fold low, and at
a long credit.
LIKEWISE
4? pipes Madeira wine,
and a few calks of Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.-
In a few Days,
« He will have for sale,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn hats, fans arid cambricks, claret in
cafe*, a quantity of window glass well sort
ed of all size«, and a lew pair of remarkable
Looking GlafTes framed, all arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
March 22. drf
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
superior quality in pipes, imported in the lh:p
W?J -niogtnn. w. - —>- . 1
OLD SHERRY WINE of the fir ft quality
in quarter casks, imported in the brig Nancy
capt. Gwin. from Cadiz
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RAISINS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIFFE WINES,in pipes
hhds. and quarter imported in ti.e
Thomas, capt. Skinner.
A few quarter casks of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who has also, just arrived and for sale
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lisbon Salt.
A quantity of empty BAGS for sale.
April 5. diw w&:sim.
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street :—
A few Bales of Ruflia Sheetings,.'
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cafas,
A Quantity of Brimstone,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. 20. 3taw6w
• ADVERTISEMENT.
OF the money robbed from the mail near
Baliimore, by Dotflor Gant, no dollars were
afterwards sent by an unknown hand, to the
Poftm after at Baltimore, who transmitted
the fame to tbe General Post Office. The fuf
ferers by that robbery arc desired to ftdte the
amount of their losses and trans
mit the fame, with the original letters of their
correfponderits /'where recovered) or other
evidence thereof to the General Post Office,
before the firft day of June next, immediate
ly af(er which adivipend will be made among
the claimants.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Poji Majler General.
Gen. Poll Office, April 4, 1794 iaw6w
Loft last Night,
Between Second and Seventh streets, a
Red Morrocco Pocket Book, .
Cntain ing a few private letters and a bill
of exchange, dated Charleston, March ,
drawn by John Minnick on Philip Care, in fa
vor of Sims White, which can be of no use
to any one but the owner, whoever, has found
the fame, and will deliver it atlfrael Israel's
Inn, shall be handsomely rewarded.
April 9. *4t
t
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Fine Dollar Bilt'3 of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
feiieral of which have appeared in circulation
within a few days pajl; they are A good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be diflinguifhed by the following
MARK S.
Five Dollar Bills of the Batik of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is smaller
i than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M would extend con-
GdeiaMy above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow!
i erand closer together than the reft of tlj£ bill
The i and fin the word promise afe not
parallel, the yinclining much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the stroke*
of all the Letters are stronger and tl * devi< e
in the margin particularly isrrnich coarser and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
ef the counterfeits bear dare in 1791 —Where-
as toe Bank was not in operation till Decem
ber, and no five dollar bills were iflued in
that year. ' JjtiL
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
v America»
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. tor their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described ; the engraving is oettet exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance cf the genuine bills.
Theifi/ie ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, are tnnumbe' thir
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
ihe counterfeits.
The word Company is much; like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as described a -
bove, the 0 being less thin the m, and others
' —fyjl&TrC *
There is no stroke to the / in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters tnt in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do nor come down to
the fine, but afe so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and go
ing below them.
The Signature J. Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamp-black and.
oil, and differs from the other inks used in
printing the bills and the cafliier's lignature.
It is supposed these forgeries were committed
in feme of the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits that have appeared, have come from
thence, and two persons have been apprehend
ed in Virginia, on suspicion of being the authors
of them.
The reward o(ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Person or Persons who fbal 1 ,
discover and prosecute to conviction the several
offenders of the following descriptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufa&ured
the paper on which the Bill* «vc printed.
Ihe perforj or pet tons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers. ®f the bills.
Every person who has afled as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter-,,
'ng ihc said bills. .
THOMAS WILLING, Piefiden
of the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, Pirfident of the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
peftive Boards.
Philadelphia, Match 28. 1 dtL
Excellent CLARET,
# In hoglVcads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front ilreet.
Jan. 2, 1794. dtf
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
/ Mai ket-Street,
An Eflay 011 Slavery,
Dcfigned to exjrnhit in a nrw point of view
its effects on morals, indujtry, and the peace oj
society. Some tacts and calculations are offered
to prove the labor offjectnen to be much more
productive than that of Jlave J ; that co\inuit> aie
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hencc the n- ctffpty conclusion, that
flavciy 1s impolitic as well as unju/i.
V* ice 25 Cents. dtf
FrhruarMtCv
d In the Name of the French
f Republic.
'■ 17 VERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
" a lhe Teutralit y of the United States.
_ All commiflions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and"are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
(March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
1 he Mimfter Plenipotentiary of the French
1 Republic. JH. FAUCBET.
j The Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are requelted to republilh the
r foregoing notice.
Just Imported,
In tbtfhip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peter/burgh in and no-w landing at
RuffelFs wharf,
HEMP, ,
r BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
RAVENS PUCK,
s RUSSIA DUCK,
And lor sale a: the (lores of the fubferiber in
j Walnut street, N<>. 22.
- John Donnaldfon.
April 4. diw w&>tf
, Congress of the United States.
HoUje of Rcprefen tativas
Mr. (Giles's reply to Mr. W. Smith's ob
servations on the palling' of the naval
armament bill. -
( Continued.)
Believing this principle to be a just one,
he would apply it to the exifling state of
things between the United States and G.
Britain. Almost at soon as Great Bri
tain had taken part in the iniquitous war
against France, the executive of the United
States manifefted their regard for peacf,
by proclaiming their existing state of neu
trality, and recommending to theii citi
zens not only the observance of neutrality,
but of impartial neutrality. Although the
partiality of the American people for the
cause of France, was well known, altho'
at that moment their affe&ions for the
French 1 nation were addrefled by the most
honorable and powerful considerations that
ever existed between two nations. The
peculiar similarity between the willing
French cause, and that which had just
given birth to American liberty and inde
pendence; the material agency which the
French nation had exerted in bringing
about that event: and the existing prin
ciples of government here, the pfoduft
of the revolution, which are the great
object of attack by the combination against
France.
A pure and laudable regard for peace,
and a destination of war however, had o
vercome all these sensations, and produced
a neutrality which he believed on the part
of the United States had been rigidly ob
served, at least, he was Jure, that such
was the intention of government. In
this state ef things Great Britain com
menced an attack upon this state of neu
trality, which it was certainly her interefl
to preserve, and which (he ought to have
deemed a favor to obtein. Great Britain
continued to keep pofTeffion of polls upon
the acknowledged territory of the Unit
ed States, to carry on a contraband trade
with our savage enemy. She shortly after
our proclaimed neutrality proceeded to in
terrupt or laAiful trade with our allies.
She fuzed, condemned and fanftioned the
complete transfer of the property of Ameri
can citizens to her oivil fubjeds ; and as if
there could be no limits to her idiquity &
resentment, (lie has contrived to open up
on our eastern frontiers, a barbarous ene
my to aid in making depredations uppn
our commerce.
These ass constitute injuries which a
mount to war, and they are infinitely ag
gravated, both by the perfidy which at
tended the execution of some of thein :
and the total want of provocation, for the
commiflion of any of them.if then Great Britain, (hall have com- ■
Butted acts towards the United .States, j
which furnifti just cause of war, the Uni
ted States possets the right confidently
with the laws of nations, to exercise any
act towards Great Britain, which would
be juftifiable in a state of war. The U
nited States having received the injuries,
are authorised to feleA such measures and
means as they may deem the molt expedi
cnt f#r felf-prefervation and indemnifica
tion. Reprisal is within their power
All other means of redtefs, are without
their power. In such a state of things,
reprisal is a right—reprisal is a duty• An
obje&ion more plaulible than solid, has
been made to this course of reasoning, that
the individuals who will be the immedi-.j
ate obje&s of the reprisal, have not been
the immediate agents of the aggteffion.
The laws of nations state, that the pro
perty of individuals, is as much a subjeCt
of reprisal, as the property of the aggres
sing nation ; but as the nation is the im
mediate agent in the wrong, the individu
al who fuftainsan injury thereby, becomes
intitled to recompence from his nation.
The nation which commits the wrong, by
this process will ultimately sustain the lois.
Hence in the present cafe, the innocent
and unfufpe&ing vi&ims of the United
States, have received losses from the law
less aggressions of Great Britain, and the
question is, whether they shall finally sus
tain these.losses, without any clear claim
of indemnification upon the government
of the United States ? Or whether the
losses (hall be transferred to Britirti fub
jc£ts, who will thereby poflefs the cleared
claim for recompcnce, from the Biitifh
government ? He thought the law 3ot
God, the laws of morality, the laws of
reason, the laws of nations, would all pro
nounce, that thr British Government which
had done the -wrong, Jhouhl ajford the re
camping.
Mr. Giles said, that if the losses were
to be ultimately borne by the individual
fubjefts of Great Britain, the remedy
would feetn to be a lrarfh one ; but even
in that cafe, the only alternatives left to
the United States would be to fay, whe
ther their own citizens, to whom they
have promised proteft'on fho ild finally
sustain the lofles, or the Briti/h fubjcßs,
f> whom they have promised no projec
tion. But the situation of the individu
als, who may be the fubjedts of reprisal,
is greatly meliorated, by the coniidera
tion of their just claim to recompence from
their own government ; which he had no
doubt but they would ultimately obtain,
if they were put into a situation to de
mand it; but if they (hould ultimately be
denied justice, it would be a confutation ■
to reflect, that it was the in just ice of
their own Government, not of the Uni
ted State?.
He observed, that a reprisal in the way
proposed, flood upon the fame ground as
the invafton of the property, in every o
ther cafe did, and was juftified upon the
fame principle, to wit, Self-prefervation.
He presumed if there existed an acknow
ledged state of war, letters of marque
and reprisal, commiflions to privateers,
&c. would be deemed juftifiable and ex
pedient, and that no discrimination would
be made betweeu the property of indivi
duals and the property of the nation ; yet
the -invasion of the rights of property in
that cafe, would be as palpable, as in the
cafe of the reprisal proposed, with this
aggravation", that in that cafe, the indivi
dual sustaining the loss, would not be in
titled to ultimate recompence from the go
vernment—in the cafe proposed he would
be intitled to recompence. He observed,
that the British nation had not discovered
this delicate discrimination between na
tional and individual property, in their
late inftruftions given to their privateers
and {hips of war, although they had sus
tained no wrong ; and he thought their
conduit an example in point for the Uni
ted States, who had received the injury
and committed none.
A gentleman (Mr. Smith, S. C.) yes
terday attempted to make a diftin&ion
between vessels at sea, and other pioperty;
although he acknowledged that at the firft
blush he could discern no dittinction in
principle 1 .
Mr. Giles said, that every species of
property, flood on the fame principle, the
promise made by the government to afford
protection to all property—the fame rights
are attached to every species of property,
and the government is bound to afford an
equal security to all. A sentence read
yesterday, by a gentleman (Mr. S. Smith)
from a writer upon the laws of nations,
clearly lhews the fight, of nation to
inake rcpriinl ilpjn nil the effetts of
i individuals of an aggfcffiog nation indil
| criminately, Jfock in the public Jutih ;
which has Ikl*ii exempted, undev the idea
of its being a pledge in the hands of go
vernment, —the wi*h}K>kl:nfc of which,
would be a breach of public faith. He
believed that the practice and policy of
some nations, might have given rife to
this diftindtion, b<it be doubted whether
the practice had been uniform and univer
sal, and he was 'clear that there was no
rational diftindtion in principle. The idea
that the public funds are a pledge in the
hands of government and ought slot there
fore to be touched, is equally applicable
. to every other species ot property. In
the cafe of contracts between individuals,
the government guarantees the perform
ance upon the refuial of one party to pay,
or comply. In ths cafe of lands or per
sonal chattels, the government guarantees
the exclusive enjoyment to the proprietor; -
it would be equally a violation of faith,
for the government to deny its obligation ;
in the one cafe, as in the other, and no- j
thing could juftify an invasion of the j
rights of property, in any cafe, but Seif- ■
preservation—the JirJl of all rights, and ,
the highest of all duties. . i
He positively denied that any pre-emi- ,
nence was due to one species of property, j
over,another. He said, however, that tins j
discussion was not immediately necelfary, ,
as the resolution under consideration, did
not embrace the stock in the funds of the
United States.
(To be continued.)
Foreign intelligence.
PARIS, December 14.
Yefteiday Anacharfis Clootz, and Dll
- both deputies of the C.invention, ■
were expelled from tlie Jacobin Society ; j
Roberfpierre chiefly prompted their ex
pulsion, and was much applauded.
All of the officers and crew of the snip
' l'Apollon, sent from Toulon to Rochfort,
by permission of lord Hood, h.lve been
accused of an intention to corrupt the pub
lic mind, and delivered up to the revolu
tionary tribunal eftablUhed in that place.
The act of accufatton pafied against
them contained the following cbargts:
" That it is proved by the diaries kept
by the prisoners, that they cali the most
distinguished patriots, anarchifls, ruffians,
hangmen, cut-throats, wortty children of
Marat; that they drained ever)- nerve to
dissolve the Popular Society ; that they
trod the national badge under foot, hoifttd
the white cockade,cried Vive LouisXVll.
and datad their writings in the firft year
of his reign ; that it had been in their
power to save the French squadron, and
that they preferred to deliver it up to the
English ; that they reiteiately rtfufed to
quit the harbor and engage the hoflile
squadron, by which Toulon would have
been saved ; that they furnifhed detach
ments to light against Carteaux; that they
received and dillributed among the crews
considerable sums to corrupt them ; that
they corresponded with the emigrants;
that they contributed to the infamous ar
rest of the Representatives Bayle and Beau
vais : finally, that they demanded certifi
cates, attesting their good conduit of the
traitors of Toulon."
They were all found guilty, and fuffer
ed death by the guillotine.
The commissioners at Bordeaux, in a
letter dated Nov. 30, slate, that the guil
lotine is busy in decapitating the rich, the
merchants and monopolizers. On the
28th all the a&ors of the Great Theatre
were put under arrest as aristocrats. A
great number of fuipecied persons were
also taken into custody the lame night,
out of the number of 2000 pcrfans who
were at the theatre.
The female citizen Marbenf, a mer
chant, has been committed to the priion
of St. Pelagie, on a charge of monopoly.
In her cattle at Champ, a small village, the
officers found 18,000 swt. of soap, 15000
weight of sugar, between 15 and 16,000
chaldrons of charcoal, 30,000 faggots,
and a great quantity of coffee, kali, and
other articles of merchandifc, which has
been put in circulation.
In the night of the 30th ult. 200 of
the most principal merchants of Bourdeaux
were put under arrest, and will be deliver
ed up to the revolutionary tribunal to be
guillotined.
December 17.
For some days pall the Parisian bakers
are lo afraid of the guillotine, that the
people are served in due time with all the
tilde fliops can affbtd, Their (hops
are nevsr opened before nine o'clock, and
this in the presence of a commiffiouer of
' polic*.
December 19.
The revolutionary tribunal hasjuft con
demned to d(jath the following peflons,
viz.
Anthony Machi, grocer, and James
Louis Tonnelier, mercer, both commifii
oners of equipment ; and Bernard Le
monier.and John Baptist Giblin, taylors ;
—all convidted of dilapidation of the funds
of the Republic by fraudulent purchases.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Sunday, Nov. 10.
" We have long," said Seyes, " wished
to fee reason triumph over fuperttition and
fanaticifm. The day at length arrived,
and I rejoice at it as one of the greatest.
bk'flings that could happen to the French
Republic. Though I have for many
years laidafide the ecclesiastical character,
let me, however, be permitted to declare
at present, that I know no other worship
than that of liberty and equality, and no
other religion than the love of mankind
and my country. I have lived victim of
superstition, but I was never its inttrument.
, None can fay he was ever deceived by me;
| and maily are indebtd to me for the truth.
! At the moment my reason was disengaged
from the fatal prejudices by which it was
fettered the energy of infurrefltion entered
mv heart. Since that period I have been
retained in my facredotal habit by the fame
force which retained other free fouls in
chains. These were all destroyed on the
day of the revolution.
" I have been known only by my ef
forts for liberty and equality It was as a
plebeian, a Deputy of the People, and not
as a Priest, for 1 was then no longer one,
that I was called to the National Aficm
bly. I cannot, like many of my colleagues,
deiiver to you the paper or titles of my for
mer Hate ; for a long time they have not
been in existence. I have no relignation to
gi?e in to you, because I have no eccleli
a(lleal employment; but I have ftiil an of
fering to make my countiy, that of an an
nuity of 10,000 livres, which the law
gave me as an indemnification for my for
ukv be»e6cce. Permit me to depolite oa
your table my formal renunciation of that
pension."
The Convention ordered this speech to
be inleited in the minutes.
Thursday, January 2.
Roberfpierre, jun. from Toulon, as
cended the tribune, and spoke as follows :
" You know the exploits of the loldiers
of the Republic. The capture of the Eng
lilh redoubt has decided the fate of Eu
rope. The enemy had exhausted all the
resources of art and genius to profit by it
Well, the defenders of liberty wanted to
take it, and they became matters of if."—
He now traced the pitture of the cruelty
of the Englifli, who threatened the patri
ots with cutting out their tongues, and
pouring.boiling lead into their brains, so
escape such cruelties, Bayle made away
with himfelf. Beauvais, who survived,
fuffered such fnocking treatment in his
dungeon, that the features of his face are
so much altered as to render it difficult to
know him again.—' 1 have now,' conti
nued Roberfpierre, ' to speak to you res
pecting the army of Italy, to which you
sent me. That army encamped on huge
rocks, in the midst of the snow, tar from
the woods, havirig every where frefh ob
stacles to conquer, and redoubts to carry,
flew, for these five months pad, from one
victory to another. Its valour has been
too little celebrated : too little lias been
said refpe&in'g the affair of Cillat, where
1000 Republicans, commanded by the
brave Dugomier, conquered 4QOO men,
and took 800 prisoners, and where a poll,
defended by too men, liood an attack of
12 hours againtt rooo assailants. That
army has not only the enemy to combat,
1 but it is also surrounded by thousands of
1 alLffins : The peasants kill our brave ibl
t diers, and instances of this kind are daily
[ renewed." Roberfpierre having informed
; the Convention that it had been the ene
my's deiign to seize Provence, and having
" unmafted the treachery of Kellernian,
: who left the town of Entrevcan destitute
of troops, cannon, and ammunition, con
; eluded by,mpving,, that the Afiemblv at
trft by a decree, that the army of Italy
had well deforced.. of the country. De
j creed, and his report ordered to be insert
: sd in the bulletin. *
'■ Birrere read the following letters:
From Dentiel, ReprefentatWe of, he P , . %
at Landan. "P*
" Landau, Dec. 18, I 7„. fc
or the French Rq, u b®t
divfible, Srft y J r of
I Con Caution, firfl hour ©f Ac
of the blockade. "^Maing
" Vidoire ! Vive la ReMfcem,,
O my friends, my dear coUe^.a"
nerators of all polterity, once
" The blockade of Landau is raised
are free ; our slavery is at an rn(L Oar'w
thers, our saviours are here. WlmtranWr
prevails among us! I am carrirf beyond
felf! Omy country, thou art fired ; 1 aj-7
with my brother ioldiem, lave a»<J th£
place, so important to the republic. We ha™-
braved the bombardment and the Tain toe
naces of these audacious combined tvrants -
the bearers will inform you of particular. I
wait your orders, to fly hn o your
inform you of the fucctfs of the Frrnchlnd
the total defeat of tyrants.
(SignedJ « j. p. DENT7.PT
« Citizens," continued Barrere, "Surhis
the result of the courage of your armies,
such are the fruits of your labors. Fort iJ
is blockaded; tyranny will not long
nor it. What remains to be done for the Re
public ? Forthwith to enfranchife the P-rea
nees, who have forgot the viacru-s of Ren
cevaux and the siege of Barcelona. Then
to chafe away the difereet Cobcum f rom
Conde, Valenciennes and Qucfnov, and to
give him once more a Belgie lefim. In fine
to strike and punift London, that haujjhtr'
banking, mercantile, rr.inifleriaj, aad r ov ii
city, that devours the earth, tyrannize*
the seas, plunders Europe, and debafc the
morals of every people.—lt is, Above all, on
this courageous garrison of Landaa that the
committee think it their duty to fix yoiir re
gards. Locked within the eiitmy'* country,
abandoned almost to themfdves for more
than four months, ignorant of what French
valour was meditating for their d lhnrance,
imagine what constancy it must require, and
with what courage they must arm themfeWes
from day to day ! they refitted ail kjids cf
corruption. The enemy was desirous even,
by urgent felicitation, to make them dtfpiTe
i their General, and to name a Chief devoted
to himfelf."
UNITED STATES.
BOSTON, April 2.
FROM CAPE-ANN, April 1.
" Yesterday arrived here a vcffel frcm
St. Vincents, in 13 days pillage, confirm* _
' tfae~ agreeable intelligence, Thar the nevA
orders had arrived there from Eisgknd,
not to molest any American veflcls; and
all processes were to cease against those
already taken. This vcffel fpofce with a
droger from Grenads, which confirmed
the fame news. Before the veHel {ailed
from St. Vinccnts, intelligence lad been
received from Martinico, that the Engliih
forces had attacked Fort Republic, and
had beeu repulsed with the loss of krrcn
hundred men."
yl CorrefponAeht ajfcrls,
That the orders for the release of A
merican vefiels have actually beea received
in the Wrft Indies, and that they ha«-al
tered the countenances of the plunderer*
very much. Several Captains at St. f .u
---ftatia are said to have repaired to St. Kitts
to receive their vefiels. Heaven grant the
intelligence may be true, and that the
fails of our vefTels may speedily whiten the
harbors of the United States. If true it
is to be lamented thai so many oflEcttsand
seamen have been forced to leave the
Xflaods.
On Monday last arrived here, Captain
Crocker, in the schooner Ann, from Mar
tinico, which lie left about the sth of
March. Captain C's veflel was of
those taken when that part of the iCand
was captured where he lay. He with all
the itiafters of neutral veflels, were felt
on shore to live at their own cxpettce;
the rriatps and sailors were put on beard a
large (hip provided for that purpose; they
were not under a guard, and had two
boats provided for them to go on fiwre
when they pleased ; that they ltad only
two thirds of an allowance; that a ntsn
ber of the American seamen, abont 40,
were prefled on board the Britifli ibijjs cl
war; the vefTels had all their fail* unbent,
yards and toprnafts ilrnck, with a gcaro
onboard, "who plundered them of whate
ver they pleased. This veflel vns est
here to bring M. Bellegarde, a genera! ot
colour, in the service of the-Republic,
who capitulated to the English, and i S ret '
able tu capitulation, was fe"t here to ao
American vcffel. Capt C's cargo
all taken on fiiore, or the head* <*
casts stove in ; His adventure
him, such articles only excq>tec» Stbeen plundered by the guards who had
been on board. Captain Crocker was in
formed, that two packets had arrived,
«ne with Prince Edward on board, the o
ther from England ; but the news brought
by her had not transpired. The Island
was in pofleffion of the English, except
the two (trong forts, which commanded
the town, and part of Port-Roy- a).
—These forts it was expeacd would make
a good defence,, as they were, as he .ieard,
irarrifoned by 3000 men, and well fupph
ed with provisions. Capt C. furthennfo. Ms
that our officers were treated with insolence
whenever they made any demand of the
Britifli. If the above is not a true (late
ment, Captain C. is requested to corrett it.
NEW-YORK, April 9.
Captain TVmlinfon arrived m l 3 oays
from St. Eultatia, fays he was boarded
by a privateer,- who informed him, that
no dividend of prize money had yet been
made, and that it all remained in the otti
ces. That ail the Captains of privateers
were about to resign their commissions, &
it was cxpefted that all privateering would
The Frenchman who poisoned himfelf
on Sunday night lad was Joseph Nicholas
Imbertj late an inhabitant of Toulon,
who left that city at the time of its recap
ture by the patriots. He has left a con
siderable sum in money and afiignats.
The following letter was f.iund in his
room. ,
To mv landlord, New-York.
New-York, 2d April, 1794*
CITIIEN,
I SINCERELY aflt your pardon, for
the trouble I am at the eve to give you,
to commit suicide ifi your house ; it is an
ih return for the favors you have conlered
on me ever since I have been acquainted
with yon; but deign to forgive me on ac
count of my misfortunes, which ar>
great; life is a burthen that I can bear no
longer ; 1 mull die. P. efent my compli
ments of excuse-to your worthy wife, to
whom the scene will give much trouble. I
sincerely beg her pardon ; mention the
fjimc excuse to my comrade ; he would
not have received me with so much kind
ness, had he fufpe&ed what I meditated.
1 would have avoided all tms on my arri
val, had some poison which I swallowed
had the deftred effect : but I was deceived,
' and this pretended poison only some
physical herbs, whic'h i always carried a
bout me finee the revolution, for to u%e it
had the French aristocrats been fuccefsful;
on the contraiy, I use it after the patri
ots are triumphant. God, how terrible
are revolutions. (Signed)
IMBERT.
4 ■
AUGUSTA, March 1.
On Wednesday night last or Thursday
morning, the goal of th.s town was broken,
and Beverly Allen, who had been committed
for the murder of the late Robert Forfvth,
Esq. Federal Marihal for this state, was taken
from theftce,arid made his efeape, to the ut
ter mortification of that class of the mhabi
taa; s of Augusta, who to remedy the infuf
ficießfy of the prison, had undertaken to
guard the fame, anticipating l'uch an event as
had taken place.
March 13.
His Excellency the Gbvemor has iflued a
Proclamation, dated the 17th ult. offering a
reward of 751. for Beverly Allen, one half
to be paid on his being committed to the
common goal of Richmond county, and the
other on his being convicted of the murder
of Robert Forfyth, Ef.'
A number of the citizens of Augusta, in
addition to the above reward, have also of
fered 300 dollars for the apprehenlion and
cotr.tULtnent of the before mentioned mur
derer.
CHARLESTON, March 24.
Dispatches from the Secretary at War to
the Governor of this State have been receiv
ed, direding that the Spartifh brig Saint Jo
seph, brought into this port some time since
be delivered up to its original owners, the
capture of said veflel hiving been considered
as rotlufive. What has the Governor
to do with this bulinefs.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 11.
TrefSlsy last the trial of the Impeachment
«tf John Nicholson, Esq. Comptroller-
Generaf of this Commonwealth ,wa& finiihed
fcy the Striate —it terminated in the acquittal
or Mr. son from the charges contain- I
cd in the Impeachment
YtfUrfayperpoJl, the printers of this city
received ai nfual y the newspapers of New-
York, which contained the Speech of the
' Kin jof Great Britain to his parliament, re-
Stk -
pUMlfted from the St. Eufullus Gazette--
trom the Nnu York papers, it has been re
publifted by all the praters ot Daily papees
in this city —'except the printer ot the Pmu
dclp'nia Gazette, <w~-o "was fawre* with
the speech of the British King by a Vessel ar
rived at New York from St. Euftatiu* from
which he copied the Speech, and no; from
the New York papers.
Surely the New York printers are very re
miss in not forwarding their papers to the
printer of the Philadelphia Gazette.
Mr. Clark's motion contemplating a non
importation a<3, to be in force till Great Bri
tain (hall indemnify us for her Spoliations on
the high seas and restore our polls, wis tak
en up in the Federal HoOfc of Representa
tives yelterday m committee of the whole,
Mr. Sherburne in the chair.
Mr. Dexter moved a modification of the
latter part of the resolution making the lan
guage of it more genera!, to the following
purport —" to be ill force until our claims on
Great Britain are Satisfied."
This amendment occafioWd much debate
and was finally reje&ed, 57 to 40. The re
mainder of the mornir.g was taken up in de
bate 011 the original motion, on which no
question was taken, but the committee roSe
and reported progress. Gen. Ad.
There is a report in Town, that accounts
have been received at New-York, of the ar
rival of a Second Bntilh fleet in the Weft-
Indies—The New-York papers of yefterclay
do not contain any intelligence of such an
event.
The following is extracted from " Lacey's
Prophetic Warning*, London, 1707, part
(The original in the British Mufekm.)
" Yes, that Versailles, which thou lnft
made for the glory of thy name, I will throw
it to the ground ; and all your inSolent in
scriptions, figures, and abominable piAures.
And Paris, Paris, that imperial city, I wi.l
afflifl it dreadfully. Yes; I will affli£t the
ro/al family. Yes; I will revenge the ini
quity of the king upon his grandchildren.
VIRGINIA.
March Bcdfoi ~d Co xrt, 1794-
Amongst other preSents qf the Grand Jury,
is the following :
WE present the conduct of Candidates
for elections in giving Public Treats, as
a pra&ice directly contrary to positive Law,
a.id as having a tendency to corrupt the
minds and manners of ths people.
ROBT. RHODES,
• Foreman.
List of Phizks Dkawn
IN the WASHINGTON
HOTEL LOTTERY,\
No. D. No. D.
37531 Hotel. 48384 10000
1J349 25000 JOOO
12536 20000 49756 5000
24088 15000
Prizes of 1000 Dollars.
55 79> 9930, 23636, 25359, 28015,
31360, 40152, 473 a 9> 48585. 23899.
Prizes 0/500 Dollars
2906, 3776, 4530, 12216, 12928, 14708,
22289, 22330, 21819, 24308, 25611, 25203,
25817, 32090, 35386, 40172, 48334, 49182.
24397» 44538.
Prizes of 100 Dollars.
17, 163, 497, 1351,1702, 2055, 2168, 2647,
2'141, 2831, 2995, 3331, 3596, 4122> 49*°>
4974, 5650, 6487, 6934, 7316, 7658, 7659,
814S, 8.357, 8966, 9677, 11218, 12484,
13078, 1375!) 14099, 15030, 16268, 16389,
16463, 16666, 17064, 17953,18389, 18862,
19712, 19998, 20014, 21676, 22257, 23249,
23546, 23740, 23872, 23927, 23047, 25279,
25577, 25942, 26855, 26870, 28394, 28489,
28861, 29473, 29772, 29800, 31165, 31402',
32708, 34509, 34895, 35064, 35801, 36421,
#555, 36864, 38054, 38156, 38521, 38612,
38790, 39293, 39823, 40696, 40773, 41337,
42398, 43251, 44495, 44561,44614, 45662,
46067, 46777, 47808, 48285,48485, 48828,
49146, 49176, 49342, 49413, 49540, 49677.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 10.
Letter from the master of an American ves
sel in Martinique, to his owner in this city.
St. Pierre, Martinique, March 20.
Sir,
" I HAVE but a moments time to inform
you, that the brig and cargo, was taken poS-
Session of by the Brit'lh men of war, when
this town was taken ; That we were all tak
en out, and while the vefiel was left without
a hand to take care of her, ihe was broke
open, and my chest containing upwards of
two hundred joes in dollar;, was robbed. I
was held a prisoner two days and then sent
on shore, and have not been allowed to go
on board since.
' " Their firft pretext For making"prize»
' of Americans, was the proclamation of the
6th of November, after the arrival of the
proclamation of the Bth of Jan. thsy Said,
that as the town was taken by aJTauk, all
r the property became the property of the aS
sailants ; but lately they have pretended, that
; tile port was blockaded when we entered:
- it appears to have been a strange blockade,
"t J 1
for I never saw a fail of any kind after I came
into the latitude of the Illands, till I was in.
St. Pierre road. However, I find they are j
dererrmn 'd to have them condemned, \vhe- (
tner r ght or wrong.
" I am informed, there is a court of ad
miralty formed, and toy present dete; mix
tion is to stay and lay in a claim for the pro
perty. They have stopped every neuLral
vclTei that has arrived since the town was
takfcn, I 'under the fame pretext, that the port
is still blockaded, altho' they have had full
poffelfion of the port and town, and in part
of the whole island except Fprt Royal and
Foijt Bourbon ever since the 17th of Febru
ary."
"I am &c."
By a person who came paflenger in the
veflei by which the above letter was received,
we are informed that a large ihip is provided
at St. Pierre for the reception of American
seamen j where they are fupp'ied with rati
ons : that fisty of their number have been
taken from the ftiips and diflributed in the
fleet: and that a number of American ves
sels have beeu cut from their cables by the
Britiih, and fuffered to drift to lea without
aman on board.
Yeiterday in the forenoon arrived here
from Boston, General Belgarde, and his
suite—and in the afternoon, crossed the
Elizabeth-Town Ferry, on their way to
Philadelphia.
It appears by the Speech of the Britiih
King to the Parliament, that much stress
is laid on the successes of the allied powers,
■end-very little said about their late disas
ters. It seems the determination of the .
British Court to continue the war, as long
as they can amuse the people. Indeed
the threatened invasion of England by the
French, will unite the nation in opinion,
and give vigor to their arms. The Frensh
injure themselves more than the aims of
their enemies injure them ; for while they
defeat their external foes, and every where
triumph in the glorious cause of defending
their own Country from invaiion, they tar
nidi their glory By the barbarous and san
guinary puuifhments inflicted on their own
cjtizens who differ in opinion from the vi
olent Jacobins. The accounts of the ex
ecutions in that country wound the Feel
ings of humanity, and fill the reader with
horror.
[Minerva.]
We learn that the Commissioners for
fortifying this port, have finilhed their
plan, and that the great work of fortifying
will be commenced in a few days.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Brig Pomona, Kin e *, Cape Nich. Mole
Sloop Betsey, Brueton, St. Croix
Schr. Patty, Lumbard, Virginia
Betsey, Mans, Baltimore
CLEARED.
Ship Alexander, Strong, Charleston
Schr. Polly & Sally, Skinner, Norfolk
Nancy & Betsey, Coates, Folly Landing
Pidgeon, Milner, Virginia
Sloop Willing Lass, Bell, do.
Swaliow, Hieze, New Haven
Fox, Lavland, Egg Harbour
Capt. King, of the iJh'g Pomona in 17
days from Cape Nichola Mole, informs,
that on the 9th February, on his padage
from this port to St. Marks, he was cap
tured by the Britiih frigate Hermonine,
and sent into the Mole, where he was de
tained several weeks, and then liberated.—
He left at the Mole about eleven fail of
American vefiels, among which was the
sloop Driver, Capt. Doyle of Philadelphia
—to fail in 10 days after, for this port.
A Schooner belonging to Philadelphia,
name unknown, together with 3 others be
longing to the Northern States, were to
be sent down to Jamaica on suspicion.
The (hip Bacchus Vannemau of Phila
delphia, failed for Jamaica about 7 days
before Capt. King left that place.
Also, the Ihip Diana, Capt. Cain of
this port, failed for St. Marks 5 days be
fore Capt. King left the Mole.
Captain Brueton informs that on tha
23d March, in lat. 23, 50, long. 69, he
was -boarded by a Bermudian privateer,
which detained him about 2 hours, and
after ft rift examination, he was permitted
to proceed-
He left at St. Croix, the snow Boston,
Stites, to fail the fame day for Cape Nico
cho Mole. He also left there the brig
Newton, Capt. De Cofte, to fail in two
weeks for this port.
Arrived at St. Croix, the brig Molly,
Captain Wills, from Philadelphia, and the
sloop Betsey, Well, New-York.
__ WANTED,
A PRESSMAN,
Apply at this Office.
A Gent'ermn lately froth Ringftori, ji
mrtica, informs, that he there saw Capt.
Barney —.*vho,though under binds walked
the ltreets daily—that he had converted
with him, artd that Captain Barney had
txpreffed himfelf in very f>o irited terms of
diiapprobation, when ipeaking of the
conduit of many American Captains,
wtiofe vessels had been captured—that
their language and deportment had beerl
very unjuftifiable on many occalions, and
had been attended with disadvantageous
confcquences, to themfefves and the pro
perty committed to their was
well known at Kingston, this gentleman
fays, that much fraud and plunder had ta
ken place on tlje part of some, who were
entrusted with the property 6f American
Merchants—and though the fpoilationspf
our commerce, committed by many un
principled free-booters, acting under Bri- «.
tifh Commissions, had undoubtedly been
great, yet time would disclose many dif
graceful tranfaftions on the part of Cap
tains, who have bellowed the loudest a
bout insults and losses.
The paragraph in the General Advertises
of this morning, refpe&ing our mercantile
Representative in Congreis, carries with it
too much malevolence against that gentle
man, and is too entirely devoid of truth to
be pafied by unnoticed.
The Brig alluded to, was principally load
ed by a House in this Town, in conference
of an order —They were directed to rtiake
■ the shipment whether the embargo t66k
place or not —and when her loading was
completed, which was on Thursday the 20th
ult. neither the owner or lhipper expected an
Embargo to take place. She failed oil the
Sunday following, from this port, and rcach
: ed Bombay-Hook, where {he was very im
properly, and illegally detained, by the Com
mander of a French armed (hip, for mqre
; than 20 hours —the wind blowing then urv«
j favorably, (he came up the Bay as far as
Reedy-Island, where (he lay until the
for flopping the outward bound vessels arri
ved—when (he returned with several other
veflels.
Mr. Clark's motion was again under
consideration in committee of the whole
i this day—a lengthy debate took place.—-
Mr. Boudinot, Mr. J. Wadfworth, Mr.
Coit, Mr. Hillhoufe, Mr. Dexter, Mi'.
Tracy, and Mr. Ames, spoke against it:
r Mr. Clark, Mr. Nicholas, Mr. Dayton,
r and Mr. Page, in its support. The com
rr mittee at length rose and reported pro-
I grefs, and the house adjourned till Mon
day.
Pofl-OJJiee, April 8, 1794.
(C)" Letters to go by the opportunity
expetted for Halifax, in the courfc of
next week, in order to be conveyed by
the British Packet, from that place to
Englarid, will be received at this Office,
until Saturday at 12 o'Clock noon.
N. B. The inland portage to New-York
rtiuft be paid. t
t-- • ;
* All the letters that ivtre intended to
go bv the brig Nancy, Capt. G'jj'in, for Fah
mcuth, arefent to the Pojl-Office > in order
that they may be forwarde by the opportuni
ty going to Halifax) to go by the Britijh Pac
ket from thence ; it <will however be neceflary
for those who put letters i the Nancy's bag,
to call at the Pojl Office, and pay the fofimre
to New Tork, before they can go forward.
Philad. April 9. dit
"new theatre.
THIS EVENING,
April 11.
Will be performed,
A TRAGEDY, called the
gamester.
Beverly, Mr. Fennel
Stucke'ly, Mr. Wignell
Lewfon, Mr. Cleveland
jarvis, JVIr. Wintlocic
Bates, Mr. Green
Dawfon, Mr. Moretort
Waiter, Mr. De Moulin
Mrs. Beverly, Mrs. Whitlock
Charlotte, Mrs. Franti-s
Lucy, Mrs. Cleveland
End of the Tragedy,
A Pantomimical Dance, called
The Sailor's Landlady,
OR
Jack in Distress.
To which will be added,
A COMEDY, (written by the late David
Garrick, called
The Guardian.
Mr. Hartley, Mr. Whitlock
Old Claefce't . Mr, Morns
Young Clasket, M r - F
Servant, Mr. Blidbt
Harriet, Mrs. Marlhall
Lucy, Mrs. Uowfiafl, Philadelphia, Marchi, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHEW CAREY,
/ No. 118, Market Jlrect,
i"HE FtKST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography :
OR, A
Geographical, Hiflorical, and
Commercial Grammar-,
And present state of the several
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
• CON T AININ C,
1. Thf! figures, motions, and distances of
the planets, According ti> the Newtonian fyf
tein and the Jateft observations.
2. A gene-a! v ew of" t >e earth, considered
as a planet; with fcveral ufeful geographical
definitions and proble-tns.
3 The grand divisions of the globe into
land and water, continents and islands.
4» The situation and extent of empires,
kingdoms, states, provinces and colonies.
5- Their climates, air, vegetables,
prodnftions, metals, minerals, natural curi
osities, seas, jrivers, bays,capes, promontories,
- aud lakes.
6. The birds and beads peculiar to each
country.
7 Observations on the changes that have
be<Fn where ob/erved upon the face of na- i
ture since the mod periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations; theii
forms of government, religion, Jaws, reve
nues, taxes, naval and military strength.
9. The genius, manners, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
10. Their language,learning,arts,fciences, v
manufactures, and commerce.
11. The chief cities, ftruftures, ruins, and
artificial curiosities.
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
distances of principal places from Philadelphia.
To which art added)
1. A Geographical Index, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
2. A T able of the Coins of all nations, and
their value in dollars and cents.
3- A Chronological Table of remarkable
events, from the creation to the present time.
Bj WILLIAM GUTHRIE 9 Esq.
■«
The Astronomical Part corre&ed by
Dr. Rittekhouse.
To which have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herschell,
and other emiiWfnt Astronomers.
The .FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Co rcfted, Improved, a id greatly Enlarged.
The firft volume contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, beiides two Astronomical Plates,
viz.
1. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world,
3. E.rope. 4. Asia. 5. Africa. 6. So nth
, America. J. Cook's discoveries. 8. Coun
trie-s round the north Pole. 9. Sweden, Den
ma and Norway, jo. Seven United Pro
vinces. 11 Austrian, French and Dutch Ne
the lands. 12. Geimany. 13. Seat of war
in France* 14* France divided into depart
ments. 15. Switzerland. 16. Italy, Sicily,
a d Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
- IJ. T in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 23. Weft-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22. Ar
. m liary Iphere. 23. Copernican system. 1
With the second volume, winch is now in
the press, will be given the following Maps :
1. Ruflia in Europe and Asia.
2. Scotland.
•3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
5. China.
6. Hmdoftan."
7. United States.
8- British America.
9. Siate of New-Hampshire.
10. State of Maflachufetts.
n. State of Conne&fcut.
a 2. State of Rhode-Iftand.
13- Stare of New-York.
14- State of New-Jersey.
is* State of Penhfylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18- State of Virginia.
. J9- Stafe of Kentucky.
20. State of North.Carolina.
2i* TennelT-fc Governments
22. State of South-Carolina.
23* State of Georgia.
TERMS.
1. This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume on
, delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
■ng> (56 cents for board:.)
3. They may receive the succeeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ler dollar-each, or else, when finifhed, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The fubfeription will be raised on the firft
day of June 1794, to fourteen dollars, ex
clusive of binding.
j. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will lie fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
6 The names of the fubl'cribers will be pub
lilhed as patrons of American literatu re
arts,and feiences.
Iti« wholly unneceflary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American l eaders, that this edi
tion pofleiTes, over every imported edition of
any system of Geography extant. The addit
tion of ra«ps<jfthe several ftate>, procured a
a very great expense, and from the best ma
terials that are attainable, fpcaks such full
conviction on this fubjeft, that it would be
difrefpeft to the reader's understanding to
suppose it requifire to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its fqperiurity. In no
Guvlar walk have such maps beenever intro'-
duced.
The emendations and additions which are
made in this work,a-e innumerable,and occuj
it every page. The public are referred to j
tiie preface lor a Uight {ketch of a few of
them.
The publisher takes the present oppoi tu
nity of returning his molt fmceie thanks t«»
those refpeCtablc clia actci ' who have t.ivred
n ;n with documents foi imp tlie
oi'feveral of che states. lie request ; a conti
inance of tlicir ki.nl ief i; and rh-«r inch
public spirited citizens, as are d of li-
I milar documents, will favor him with their
I allifiance in perfecting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he has beep favored, has excited
in his breast the warmelt fentluu nts of grati
cude—fentiments which time will ,»ot edface.
He pledges himfelf to the citizens of the
United States, to fp ire neither pains nor ex
penfe to render the pi\ sent edition o' Guthrie's
Geography improved, deserving of their pa
tronage. waltf
Just Published,
AND TO BE SO I D BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone houie, No. 41, Snurh .Vcond
Street,
Historical Colje&ions:
CONSISTING OF
STATE PAPERS,
And other authentic Document*, intended as
materials for an History of the United States
of America.
BY EBENEZER HAZARD, A. M.
In two large quarto voJum» s, price ten dol
s lars in boards. ,
Subscribers will be furnifhed with the 2J.
volume on paying three dollars and a quarter
—having paid five doilars and a quarter on
receiving the firft.
This second volume comprehend, among
other interefti»g part-cuJa r f a complete co
py of the Recordsof the Unit< d Colonies of
IN'. England, fft which the cdftduftof the com
mi lioners relpefting the general concerns of
t ie colonies—the neighbouring Indians—and
the Dutch at Manhattans (now New York) is
pirticularlv detailed.
%* Materials are colle&cd to
form a THIRD VOLUME, The time of
pobi idling will depend ou the encouragement
i> be derived from fubferiptions which will be
received by Thomas Dobfon, Philadelphia ;
J re. Libbey, Portsmouth, New Hampfhirc);
fhomas & Andrews, & Dav. Weft,Bofton; If
a a Thomas, Worceffer; Isaac B<erj, New-
H ven; Timothy Green, New London ; Jacob
Ric iardfon, Newport; John Carter, Provi
de ice ; Hugh" Gaine, Thomas Allen,e and
Samuel Campbell, New York ; Fred rick
Craig, Wilmington, Delaware; James Rice,
Baltimore; Mr. Jtind ev, Norfolk ; David
Henderfon, Fredericksburg; John Grammar
Petersburg ; Augustine Davrs, Richmond ; F
X. Martin, Newborn, N. C John Bradley,
Wilmington; and William Price Youi»g,Cnar
lefton.
April 4- mw&f 3 w
PROPOSALS
For Printing by Subscription,
An Original Novel,
In Four Volumes, duodecimo,
Dedicated, by Permiflion, to Mrs. Bingham,
entitled,
Trials of the Human Heart.
By Mrs. ROWSON,
Of the New Theatre, Philadelphia, Author
of Victoria, Inquifuor, Charlotte, Fille
de Chambre, icc &c.
" If there's a pow'r above us,
" (And that there is, all Nature ciues a'oud
" Thro' all h« works) he must delight in
" virtue,
" And that which he delights in, must be
t( happy."
***»•«*»*»
<• The foul, ftcur'd in her exiftence.frailes
At the drawn dagger, & defies its point"
CONDITIONS.
I. The work to be printed with a neat type
011 good paper.
11. Price to fubferiherj f 0U r dollars bound,
one half to be paid at the time of fubferibi, g.
111. Thefubfcribert' names will be prefixed
as patrons of the undertaking.
Subscriptions are received bv the Au
thor, the corner of Seventh a,ld ChHnut
streets, MelTrs. Carey, Rice-, aul Dob»n.
Philadelphia— Mr. G.een, Annapnl.s— Mes
srs. AHen, Berry, and S. Campbell, New,
ork MeiTrs. Weft, Thomas and Andrew
B dke, and Larkin, Boston— Mr. Halwe l
Vermont—MelTrs. Rice, and Edward., Bal
timore Mr. W. P. Young, Charted*,.'
A P r " mw&Qw.
Stock Brokers Office.
TNo. 16, Wall-street, New-York
HE Subfctiber intending ,o confW hi m re|f
entirely to the PURCHASE &tS<WKa
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b,g s l cavt to £
ftr his lervicesto his (riendt and other* in rh
me ol a Stock Broker. Thofc wU„ ",'y pUs
to favor h, ra with their ma j'S
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston <>,
/J," UD " rd St3lC1 ' * ;i > '« ari&y
attended to. LEONARD BLUICKER.
r m&thtf
GC/* This Gazette J!)a!I be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement—Tlx Subscription
encrea/es daily-AdverM„g FaLJ are
fohcited—Tbefe ctnfliiutc an ejential Item
d'mitufhmg the Debit fide of the Account
; Samuel Coates,
J Jt his Store, No. 82, south Front peet,
HATH FOR SALE,
94 Barrels
J New hug]and Beef,
> 2p banc 15 liver oil*
25 bane]* Cider,
1 i)OXv sol Candies,
1 500 p,> < r of men's shoes
642 bushels of Barley
A quantity < Tow Linn
Ditiu, of New-ling lajidySoal leather
40 bagsof excellent corton
4 boxes of Chocolate
0000 wu of Alfpjce
cases of the best Holland gin.
Apnl 1. *eod2w
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Petersburg in Russia,
And now landing at South-flreet Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
yohti Donnaldfon,
No. 21, Walnut-street.
Mar.ch 4,1794. diw-jtawtf
For Sale jby the Subscribers,
MUSCOVADO Sugar in hhds.&bbsl.
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, In pipes
and quarter calks.
Spanish Indigo.
Bolton Beef, in barrels.
And a small invoice of Mufiins.
NALBRO'& JOHN FRAZ.TER,
No. 164, Soufh Front-itreet.
March 8. fmw4W
TO BE SOLD,
And enterled upon ihe fit It ol May,
The noted Eflate, called
Jobnfon Hall:
'Lying mi the Moh* wk- country, ftateofJVew
Yoik, formerly the leac of Sir Witliam John
son, containing about seven hundred acres of
land, which is of the very bett quality ; toge
ther with the ft >ck, and farming uienfils. The
buildings are l .rge and convenient, and fii for
a gentleman's fear. The payments will be marie
easy, on good fecurny. Forfuither particulars
enquire of George Metcalf, Esq. on the premis
es, of Silos Talbot, Esq. at Pniladelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Broihcis, in New York, or
of the fubioiber in -Providence.
Jcibez Boiven.
Pbilad. March 26 &„ & , ln
The following Certifi
cate ot the iundeit three per Lent Stock of tne
Domrft c Debt ot J he United States lj.nidmg on
the books ot the Tteafuty ot tin laid United
States, in the names ol Donnald and Burton of
London, ineirhants, and ligned by Joseph
N'ourfe, Regifterof said Trtalury, 10 wit :
Nu. ,5476s dated 24th Augull *792 tor 2959
and 33 cents was nanlmiiud from Lou
don in the Ihip Peter, Paul Hu (fey, mailer,
bound lor New York, and has been loll.—
TheSubfcriber intending to apply to the Trca
luryof the Untied States to have the fame re.
liewed, deities all [iirfoils w ho arc intercllcd tit
. the said ceitificatc, to make their objections
theieto, if any they have.
Francis Macy.
1 Philad. March 27. . d6 w
Lately Published.
SOLD 'BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
The Hiitoiy Ol N' w- riamplhirr, liotii ih
JMcim-ry Ol the Rives P I at:<qua—b\ 3,
rcmah Belknap, D. D 3 Vols. Prl« n. Boards
i I 2 DtSftj.
lu<- Fomlhr, an American, Fable, ben- j
Sequel to the Hillory ofJohg Buli the Clothier,
"ice, Cents.
A Dilcourfe, intended to commemorate tbe
Discovery ot America by Chrtllopher Colum.
buv; delivered at the rtqtirll ol (he Hjiiorical
aoctety tn Ma(rachuleu>, Oftolier 23d, 1702
being t+ic completion of the Third •Centuii'!
Itiice that memorable .event. To which arc
four D'd't nations, com etted v. 1• h the
luojcS —Bv the lame author. Price, co Cents
,ch '7- ■ t„a& 3 w
The annual ele&ioiT
FOR
Direaors. and a Treasurer
OF THE
Library Company of Philadelphia,
W ILL be.helri at the Lisrary. i n fife 1
r °" Monday the fifth of Mav next, at
three o Clock m the afternoon, when t; le trea
surer w.U aitend ,to receive the annual P av.
me .us. '
A : the :f are r ™"a! <Ws on which lines
are due, the owner? of the,,,, or t ,, eir e .
are hereby notified, tl.a/ thev will
be to the law, of the
Companv n," cfs the ,- ald arrears are paid off
?n the fifth day of M«v, or w ltblo J n
By Order of the Direflors.
BENJAMIN A. MORGAN,
Aoril •> Secrrtiry
P 7 ' «'&w 15 th May.
George Briughurft,
CQACH-MAKER, x
In Mulberry (Arch) t-f-tvcer. Foo.thand FisH
Streets, adjoining the Epifcopai borvj,,..
ground,
TAKES thit opportunity of returning hi
grateful thanks to his forme,
and requcftmg t.etr future favors, as «c)!
those of the public in general.
He continues to fciake and repair ct the
fh irteft notice, all ktpds of plea fare carriage,
such as coaches, chariots, phaeton* .with a id'
without crane necks, coachees, kitte
reens, wind for fiitkeys ard cltairs, and BaVncjC
0 evarv description, in the neatefl anil »„ Vcrt
filhion now prevailing in the United Sla'et
And as he has a quantity ofriie heft featured
wood by him, aixi capital workmen, he ha*
not the lead <W')t bot be will be ab!e to give
fttisfaflion to tim e whopleafe to rinpW hi Ml
He has for sale, several carriages almost
finilhcd, such as c&achees, an Italian w.ndfor
chair, hung on steel (pring<, a light phseton for
one or two horfo, md a fulkey with a falling
Carriages fold on Commission.
- Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794 mS.-t! 301
To be Sold at Public Vendue^
On Friday the nth day of April next
at the houfeof John Thomson, in Perth-
Amb oy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
r *TV-fE Lot coma.ns cieven acres, on which is
an orchard oI grafted apple trees, a well „f
excellent writer, a large Hone c stern, and a verv
commodious Ibhle and coach-houfr, and a great
quapt.ty ot the best building Hones in the walls
ot the house, which was fo.nierlv built 10. the
r<UVrlence ol the Gove.no.. of New-jrriey The
fiiuuu,,. oflhu l.ot is so w-ll known lor us
health.nefis and beautiful prof,,eft of.hcßsriton
..ver l 0 tne wett ot the bav, and Sandy-Ho. kto
the e-.11, t„a- a further dcfciipiion is ur.n. ctffarv
The conditions ot (alt will bf, one third of the*
purcjlafe money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, when a good and fufficient.Deed will
be ;nen 10 the f utchafer, by Waitii Rui
T"» ! «D, Sfq. Prelident of the Board'of
Ptopridtors of tne Ejitrm Diviii,, n of N«w-
I Jrif.-y, ano ,he remaining two thirds fatiiiafto-
I rtly secured in etjual annual paymcnis. ' *
By order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Register.
Perth.Amin, February tj, 1704. sawam
Jnft Publiihed,
In one handibti>e volume, nmo. Price 5 s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN OR M ROD,
Fj ankTtn s Ileudy Is/ o» J\-iy Second
Sire
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natirrzd- Equality of Afai, %
On the Rights that refjuit from it, ind on I lie
Duties which it impoies.
1 0 which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Tevlerian Society at Haarlem.
Cor reded and Erdarvcd.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
V. D.
P'ote! orol Mora] Puiiolbphy, and the Law
01 Nature, and of Eccieliaftical History ;
and Minister of the Eoglilb Chuich at U
trecht.
Aliquid leinper ad coramomm ntilitafem af
fereiidiwi. CtCEao.
7hc Firjl American Edition.
PHE grand principle ol Equality, il" rigbt-
J. |y unilerftood, is the only basis on which
Ut.iverfal justice, faced oider, and perfect
freedom, can bc&iui) bnilt, and permanent
ly lecured. Th« Tew rt' it exhibited in this
efiay, it r the fame tine thai it reprefflb the
mlolence of effice, tie tyranny of pride, ard
the outrages ol oppreffjor. ; confirms, in the
most forcible manner, the necessity of fubor
dinar ion, and thejuft demands of law so! au
thority. So far indeed, from loofenirg the
bands of fooiety that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftinftton,
draws mote cloiely every foc'al tie, ttnites in
01,e harmonious and jullly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
'nrej of reciprocal obli atton, and of acorn
-111011 relation to the community.
March '8- eo-ll'wtnfeftf
LEACH,
RESPECTHIIXy Siiiorß)! hi* friends and
Ihe public, That from che rncouragemert
he b?s rrceivtd, ho m several lefpcaable Genr.'c
men, he is induced once more, (oembark io tfve
iAt h R LlNt,—i>od would i»ffe* (ervice% to
all thpfc Gemiemiu, who can p>ace confidenc
in hitn j and h: offurtt mfe who employ htm,
fliai iheir coufidentf ftjj.'j not be misplaced '
but 11 IhaJl be bis vendeavor, to pay the
ftnefc, ii a(|rnt'i&'n to theii brfl inftrtft, inall ne
gociaiions whatevrr. He ha» liken the Chamber
in ate-Street, nwti Mr. David Towrjend, Wafcfi
*> Shop. Wficie PUBLICSKCURI-
T IL'.S, ol all k n<if, bought and fold ; and
wheie Commiifioo B<j'm<fioUilktnri ( will be
franWJed on icafonahle tr.ms. HOUSES and
V ESSLI.S will be coutbmly exposed tarffaite t on
com tnfflicMi,
*** paid for Salem, Providtoce, and
rofrfmouth BILLS
N ' U an y Cent!<-man ,n Philadelphia or
York, has any Hvjir.ffi to franjatt at BcjUn,
in , uper Negotiations, he will be happy to be em
ployed on commijjion.
Roftop, Jan. 1?94 mw&fif
PHILADELPHIA :
Pa'NTED by JOHN FENNO, No 3,
South Fourth-Street.
t