of tht IpLttifeJl
EVENING ADVERT I S E R.
[No. 57 of Vol. V.]
Complaints having been made that
the Southern subscribers for this Gfl'/.otte
do not receive it, till the intelligence has
been anticipated by papers previously re
ceived by other persons ; lltey are inform
ed that the regulations at the Pott-Office
in this city require that Printers (hould
deposit their papers there, the day prece
ding the departure of the mail; this cir
c urn (lance gives opportunity to forward by
Fronting, Tuesday, Thurfdav, and Satur
day Evenings' papers, and the papeis of
Monday, Wednefdav and Saturday morn
ings, cn poll days.
Persons at a diilance who wifli to re
ceive this Gazette, are informed that the
terms of fubkription cannot be dispensed
with.—One half of the fubfci iption mo
ney, for the half-weekly paper lately print
cd'ar.d circulated by the Editor to all pars
of the Union, is yet due, either from the
subscribers, or collectors—and as the pub
lication of a daily paper is attended with a
heavy expense—however folicitor.s the
Printer may be to dilfeminate intelligence,
it will appear, that persisting in his former
plan of fending his Gazette to every pet
fon who writes for it, without fecuving
the fubienjitions will prove ruinous in the
extreme.
Tlie Editor mod earnestly requests those
who arc indebted for his late publication,
to make immediate payment
those who have received the arrearages,
from subscribers. —Some will recollect'that
repeated afluranceson this point, have not
been realized.
c> The Suljcriptiocs for this Pap.-r are
rrf 'u'ty mcreajitig. 1 pnuirdj of b ive Hun
dred arejlruck cjf daily.
jfdvertlfing fivers from the frienns and
patrors of the PulUcasion, are
foliated.
"ADVERTISEMENT.
firstuj, Korthiivr*tiloT< I ■ c-' I ■ titc ■ 17^3.
FOR SALE,
A Valuable Tratt of LAND,
in tht* county, containing abnut etfcKt
hundred acre*, one fourth ot which is lew
grounds, of exccllen/ quality; the other thret
fourrhs is high land, well coveted with oak,
hickory and chefnut.
lire situation is pleafant-and healihy, on Ycc
eomtco fiver, about three mile* from the P**io
mack. There is on it a two ftdm brick dwel
ling house, with four rooms and a on
each floor, excWfive of cloieis', a Vuchcn.
and otkt neeeff.uy ou-t-houfts It has orchards
of apple ai»d p:ach trees, and is well watered
by many delightful fpxings. The terms may be
known on application to the Honorable JOHM
UfcATH, m Philadelphia, or to the {jbicnU r,
living on thf prf inifcs,
Jan. iO.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, Sonth Srcvntf-Jh-cct,
Seconddoor b-low the corner of'Che(iiut-ftr«t,
HAS IMPORTED,
Bv the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general AJjorlmetU of
New Books an J Stationary,
Which will be disposed of on the lowelt teriftfc
Dec. 33. mwSiftf
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1794-
NOTICE i« herrbv given, that there wiH
be paid at the Bank, after the fifteenth
mftant, to the Stockho'ders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars ind
fifty centi tor each fh.ire, being the dividend
declared for the last fix months.
Bv Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cafh-er.
Parry and Mufgrave,
GolJfmitbs & Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortment of
SILVER iff PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY y><• CUTLERY,
Which they will dispose of on the most rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
ffrtt, ami every thing iu the gold and silver
way, done as u'.ual.
Drawing Academy,
in a f TV iltys, he refuuicd.
HE fee's a gratitude to those parents
and guardians of the yoiM'-g ladies,
who have entrusted to him tl»eir tuition——
and as moil of them Are to return, he will
have an opportunity-, by his end«f'avof.3 for
their further improvement', to acquit ISrtfc
ielf of a debt, which he eftcema it an honor
to'have incurred.
One or fit'o large Rooms,
In a central situation, fiutable to accom
modate his pupils, are wanted. Apply to
Mm, at No."?, Lz-titia Court—where he
will bi thankful 'to receive c .miliar ds 1 -jr
Miniature Painting or Hair Work, and all
kind of Drawing on Ivory, Sait;n .or
Paper
Jaimary 13, 1794
In tn
A ftrw cafcs Champaigne Wine;
In pipc., •v' * . qu«*ncf cafcj^
FOR SALK BY
]ar. -2. 179
ALL perfori9 having any de
malios a nit itic > il.iu wi G i.ORGt
WIbLE, Utt o ; the c-v of Philadelphia, bakcij
arc r. qu. ft* d to bring in their account!-, propcrlv
auihemicaud ; snc) thole who aie indebted, arc
to make Srh'mWi=»i«- pas:r,e«t.
HENRY KEfcS, Aminiftrelor,
January 13,
Back of (he New Unary, between Cliei'nut
Respectfully informs his friend* wd
the public ill general, that he continues
c«i-yingfj« the of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewifc, JAPANNED PLATES,
tor door* or w indow-fhirtms, done in the most
manner, and witlvtlifoatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30; drf
United States Register,
JOHN CORDON
For the Year 1794.
Prmrd by Vcwari and Co< hrjn, No. 34.
Soo:h Secor.d-lwcci,and John M'Cullocli, No. 1,
Thitd-lWeet, and ID Kc fold by thcrtl oud
tlw hAnkfelleil.
J-n. .8.
Price three eighths of a Dollar,
" An Enquiry into the principles
and tendency of certain public
measures."
January 16.
Treasury Department,
X TOTICr: 1» hrieby :livtu, thai ptopolals will
IN be received at t'h: Office of the Secretary
of ihe Tteafurv, umtl 'ihe 6'h ot February nem
inclufwe, for the lupply of >11 Rations which
may be required diuruig the present year, at the
several places of it ndeivous hereafter mention
ed, lor the Recruit ng Service, viz.
At New-Biunfw ick.io New-Jcrfcy;
A 1 Philadelphia, } %
At LaJlCito', £,n Po»lfylv»# la -
At Reading, J , ,
The lation. lobt furnilhed ate toconlift ol the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bi c ad or flnwr,
One pound of b< I f, or J .if a pound of poi 1
Halt ajillof rnrti, brandy or whilli-y.
Two quarts ot ,iegarf iOO
On« pound ol f:2n«Llcs)
mwßJtf
Friday, January 24, 1794-
THE YOUNG LADIES'
Undtr the Dirrfiion of
S. F C) L W E L L,
Excellent fcLARET,
s ii 5c i>o>; ics each.
AL S s
MADEIRA,
JOHN VA'UGHAN,
dif
No. IM, sout'h Fr,.u. nice;
N O II RIS-COU R T,
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
This day is pMiftxd,
THE
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to te fold ly
Thomas Doblon,
AND
NEW
Now opening for Sate,
M. C
By
No. 118, MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuable collection oiBOOn S,
imported from London in the Mohawk.
l)ce. 19,
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the f\Arfcrlb«r has been duly ap
pointed iMfliii'WraWix on the estate of
lus Excellency John HakC-ick, Eiq. late of
Boston, i:! ttiv? couyty us Sn.fo'.k, decea'dd, and
ha- taken upon her fell* that trust, by giving
bonds as the law dlr«*ft—and all perfoni if
♦ erected, are dei'md to take notice accord-
in*.ly
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nuv. 13. I/9J.
Take Notice.
di w
A LL persons vfrho have any demards acairfb
l\. of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requeued to
exhibit the fame to the Subfcribei, Attmnev
to the ol said Eilate : And all
petfons vlio (lard indebted to said Eft'ate, are
r<*cmelfred to fettle with hiiil intmrdiutYh ; as t* e
AA of Limitation of Anions, which is to take
place on the fit It ch y c,»f December ne'*», will
otherwi'c render it uetvllaiy for him 10 com-
mcuce fuitsaga'nlt tiu in,
Boftoo.Nov. ij, >793
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, aie requrfted to in tell r)»i•; in theii
reffjefVive and forwa d t^cir mc
co uttts for the fame, to J« 'M
Pi'Mifjlvania Hofpltal \JI Mo. 15
THE Contributor* are reqnefted to
meet at the Hospital on 3d day the 28th
2aw3w,
in ft. at 3 o'clock in the afternoon, to ex
arr i-'ne a ground plan, with fevcral cdi
ma tes of tlic buildings, which are propo
sed tp be extended to accommodate a
greater number of Lunatic Patients, and
for other uses. Also to determine the
propiictyjof building the ensuing season.
jßy order of a board of Managers.
SAMUEL COATES, Clerk.
N. B. The Printers of the News-Pa
pers in this -City, 'will oblige the Conlrilu
tots, by inferring the above Advcrtifebtent
Foreign Intelligence
WARSAW, (Poland) Sept. 29.
The lad lett ers from Grodno of the
25th inft. prove, that our conje&ures with
regard to tire imal event of negoclation
with Pruflia were not groundless. It end
ed as it began, or rather surpassed all the
violences exerc.ied on the 2d of this
month.
On the 3d the Ruffian AmbaiTador, ear
ly ill the morning, opened this negociati
-011, by arreting four members of the Diet,
viz. Krafnodembiki, of Liva, Szydloulki,
of Aloe, Mikellki, of Wyzogrod, ami
Shayrnfki, of Lomza ; whom he sent off
immediately under a gua rd to the respec
tive places they represent.
Next, he ordered two hsittalions of gre
nadiers with three pieces of cannon, to sur
round and block up all the avenues and
gates of the cattle.
After these preliminan cs, the fitting of
the Diet began. Its formal opening was
strongly opposed, on the ground of a for
mer decree, that all deliberations should
cease, whenever any violent a& should be
employed against a member of the legisla
tive bodv.
dti*
In consequence, before the reading of
the ambafladors's notes was allowed, two
deputations were fi'.cceflively fait to him,
to demand the liberty of the arretted mem
bers. They were answered both verbally
and by note, with absolute refcfal. The
notes were then read. The lioufe conceiv
ed itfelf to be ill a pallive state, as being
under foreign anr.F., and deprived of a free
deliberation, would not proceed for many
hours on any business, during which time
uwt6F.
BOOKS.
Y,
R E
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
tothe Adminiftratiix.
[Whole No. 495-]
they witriclW a wsoft cHftrrfuilg' and humi
liating scene : a Ruffian General, lfcruttifcg
to and fro in the middle of the Senate, in
the presence of .he King on the thront>
persuading and menacing alternately, the
members to sign unconditionally the de
mands of the King of PtulFia.
Five hours were ipent in tnif crannerj
at last, on tlie motion of Count Aukwi&z,
Nuncio of Cracow, It was agreed to make
a solemn declaration, or protest, again it
the violent measures employed by the
Ruffiau Ambassador on the 2d of Septem
ber, and this day ; and that to prove a
total inactivity of the .Diet, instead of ex
prefiing their sentiments in the usual man
ner either by voting, or acclamation, they
Ibould keep a mournful silence when the
marshal fliould propose the pro;eft in ques
tion. This was accordingly adopted.
Thus was obtained the consent to a
ceflion, which is to juftify it in the eyes
of Europe and pouerity. Thus ended
the extraordinary negociation, unexam
pled in the annals of Diplomatic history :
and thus, in consequence, was iigned the
treaty of Ceflion of our provinces to Prui
fia.
The three notes of the Ruffian Ambas
sador prcfented that day, are curious and
singular—they will be. known to the pub
lic. The pifttcft, however, of the Diet,
ought to be particularly noted by the
present generation and all poilerity.
Declaration of the Diet.
" Surrounded clofelv by foreign troops
on the 2d of this month, threatened with
further iuvafion of the tenitoryof there
public by the Prufiinn armies, to its uttev
moft ruin, and oppreired by innumerable
violences, the States in Diet aflembled,
were forced to give leave to their deputa
tion for signing rhe imposed treaty, with
addition of a few claufcs, and such only
as the di&ating power itfelffeemed, in pi
ty to approve of. But with grief and
surprize, we find by the fad experience
of this day, that the court of Berlin Is
not fatisfied therewith. We fee fre(h a£ta
of violence forcing a new project upon us;
and in order to support it, the fame pre
ponderant power, not contented with in
vesting the place of our deliberations by
an armed force, with addrefling to us
notes full of menaces—feizea from among
us, and carries off our members ; and, by
an unexampled proceeding, keeps us, the
king, bent under the weight of age, and
under so manifold calamities ; and us, the
Hates cf the Republic, confined and im
prisoned in the Senate
" Thus fttnated, we do declare iu the
moll solemn manner, that, unable to pie
vent, even with the risk of our lives, the
effects of the opprefiive force, we leave to
our pofteritv, happier perhaps than 0111-
selves, those means of faying our clear
country, whereof we are bereft at present
and that the project sent to ue by the
Ruffian Ambaifador, though contrary to
our laws, wilhes, and opinion*, forced by
the above raeaiii to accept —We do accept.
Done at Grodno the 24th of Septem-
ber, 1793
(Signed and engro!Ted in the public re
cords according to law.)
Curious Ir'Jh jfclvrrtifrmcn/, from the Lcn-
dOlderrj Jcarnal, Feb. 50, 1783
WHEREAS on February tlte
1783, it pleaftd kind Providence to con
fer on Matthew Neely, of Buraally, parilh
of Tamlaghtfinla}* i, and county of LOll
- a man ch:!;', v.liofe appearance
is promising and amiable, ar.d hop.s the
Being who firft car.ftd him to exiit, will
grant him grace: Also, in consideration
and in remembrance of the many heroic
deeds done by that univufal renowned pa
triot, General Walhiogtiio, the said Mat
thew Neely hath doncJiimfelf the honour
of calling the said mail child by the name
of George H't jhi r.'' 11 Nmif, he being the
firl child known or so cs'led in this king
dom by the name of \Vaflii:igton, that
brilliant WeßernCONGRESS. :
>
Homfi ttf R
rfrefentativci.
January 16.
In committa »f tb- latnle, <m the report of
tin Secretary »f Suit.-, relatiiv to tht com
mercial intcrcourje of this c.unity, <uinh so-
re>£* nations.
Mr. Nicholas spoke as follows :
Mr. Chaikman,
I feel a great embarrassment in speak
ing on this iubjea, from a distrust of my
ability to treat properly its acknowledged
importance, and from the apparent expec
tation of the iiudience. 1 feci too, as the
member from Maryland who {'poke yei
terday did., from the imputation of mo
tives, well knowing that the Representa
tives of inv country, are indiiftrioufly re
potted to be enemies of the government,
and promoters of anarchy, and that the
preient meafuie is imputctt to these prin
ciples.—lt is fomtwhat remarkable, that
farther north, we are charged with felftfh
nefs, & want of attachment to the general
Welfare, for a luppofed opposition to mea
sures of the import of the present I
mention this contradictory inference, to
{hew that the lhameful deligns charged
upon us, are riot proved by the fa£t, and
to place the guilt where it only exists, in
the malignity of the accuser.
It is a commonly received opinion, that
trade should be intruded to the direction
of those immediately interefled in it, and
that the actual course of it, is the best
which it could take this principle is bv
no means a fafe one, and as applied to the
trade of America, is fallacious.
It can never be just, where the beginning
and growth of commerce have not been
free from all poflible conilraint, as to its
uireCtionj as that can never be called a bu
fi.iefs of ae&ion, which has been created
under foreign influence.—The manner in
which America was firft peopled, and the
nurture {he received from Great-Britain,
•fford the molt ftrtking contrail to the
requilite before-mentioned. The firft in
habitants of America, were educated in
Great-Britain, and brought with them,
all tlie wants of their own country, to be
gratified chiefly by the productions of
that ccuntiy. Aided by Britilh capital, ip
th ■ k-ttl.-ment of the wuderntfs, and de
pending on the fame means for the con
veyance of its produce, to a place of con.,
fumptioii. it Pas inevitable, that the do
mana for Britilh commodities, fijonld keep
P"ce with the improvement of tile coun
try.—ln the commencement of American
population and its early stages, there does
not appear to have, been a chance of cotn
pan'ng the advantages of commercial con
necti-in, with different Countries, and it
will be found that in its progress, it was
It'll more retrained. In the Iyears of
til" dependence of America on Great-Bri
tsin, the principal part of America, was
occupied by large trading companies,
composed of people in Great-Britain and
conducted by factors, who funk large funis
hands of the fanners, to attach
them to their respeCtive stores, bv which
mtans, competition was precluded, and a
depcndance on the supplies of those stores
completely eftabliflied. Since the revolu
ticn, the business has been conducted by
pcrfons :n the habit of depcndance on
Great-Britain, and who had no other ca
pital, than the manufactures of that coun
try, furnifhed on credit. The business it
still almoil wholly conducted by the fame
means. In no liage of its growth then,
does there appear to have been a power in
the consumer to have compared the pro
ductions of Great-Britain, with thole of
any other country, as to their quality of
price, and therefore there is no propriety
in calling the course of trade, the course
of ?ts choice.
Tile fuhject before fce committee, na
turally divides itfelf into navigation and
manufactures, in fpetiking of \vhich, I (hall
offer some other considerations, to {hew
that the fame cfleets are by no. means to
be expected, from the greatelt commerci
al wisdom in individuals, which are in the
power of the general concert of the com
munity ; the one having in view, profit on
each feperate transaCtion, the other pro
moting an advantageous result to the
while commerce of the country.
> ii considering the importance of navi
gation to all countries, but cfpecially to
luch ns have To cxtciilifc a production of
bulky articles, as America, I think I shall
lhcw that the tail observation, is accurate
ly r *£ht, ahd that the interest of the whole
community. not t'noie only who are the
carriers, but those also who funufh the ob
ject of carriage, pofitivclv demands a do
mestic marine, equal to its whole business;
and that, even if it is to exist under rates
higher than those of foreign navigation, it
is to be preferred. In circumstances of
tolerable equality, that can never however
entirely be the cafe, for in the carriage of
the pioJuce of one country, by the flip
ping of another, to any other place jhan
the Country to winch the Shipping be
longs, there is considerably more labour
employed, than would have been by do
mcltic fliipping, as the return to their own
country, is to be included. On this ground,
it may be confidently aflerted, that where
the materials of navigation, are equally at
tainable, they will always be more advau
tageouflv employed, by the country for
whole life they are intended, and that if
undei such circumstances, another country
is employed as the carrier, it mult be un
der the influence of fomc other cause, than
interest, as it refpefts that particular busi
ness. A dependence on the (hipping of
another country, tends to establish a plact;
of depdut in that country, of those exports
which are for the life of others, if it is at
a convenient diltance from them. The fu
perintendance of property, makes short
voyages desirable for the owner, and the
connection that soon takes place, between
the money capital of a country and its fliip
ping interests, greatly strengthens the vor
tex. The attainment of wealth beyond
the demands of navigation, leads to an in
terest in the cargo itfelf, and then the
agency in felling to the consumer, becomes
important, It is apparent, that as the
final sale depends on the wants of the
purcbafer, all intermediate expences of
care and agency, mult be taken from the
price to which the maker would be enti
tled. Our own commerce has involved
this loss, in a remarkable degree, and it
has gone to an enormous extent, from a
necessity of fubmittmg to the perfidy of
agents, anting from a dcpendance eita
blkhed bv-means of the so much boasted
'credit
, fhat there is -this tendency in the em
ployment of foreign fliipping, is not onlv
proved by the commercial importance of
Holland, which became thus from her iaa
val resources the store-house of Eutope,
without furnifliing any thing from iier
own productions, hut also from the varied
experience of America. Before the: re
volution, every thing for European con
ftimption was carried to Great Britain,
but imce America has possessed flnppin"
of her own, and in the northern slates,
there has been an acceflion of capital, the
export to England is reduced one half.
It is true indeed, that there is (till nearly
jjitc half of what she receives, that is re
exported, but it will be found that she still
retains a proportioned share of those in
fluences, which formerly carried the
whole. Great-Britain, un-der till the dis
couragements of our laws, which we are
told by the mercautile members of the
committee', amount to a prohibition where
they have any rivals, did, until the Euro
pean war, possess one-third of the foreign
tonnage employed in America This ifas
been supported by the dependence into
which the southern states were placed by
credit, and here as 1 in every other step of
the conne£tiofi,this engine extorts advanta
ges from us, beyond the compensation
which is always secured in the firft ad
vance. If there wanted other proof of
the British interest in the American navi
gation, being supported in dire<St opposi
tion to our interests, it may be found in
the comparative state of the tonnage em
ployed, where it appears that, after the
protecting duties once had their effe£t,
the additional tonnage to a considerable
amount, has been entirely American, and
that the British tonnage has remained
very nearly stationary.and in proportion to
their undue influence.
In time of war, in addition to the in
conveniences before stated, which are in
hanced by throwing the trade from its ac
customed channel there are great and im
portant losses brought on a country by
this kind of dependance. If your car
riers are parties to the war you are fub
jefted to the war freight and war insu
rance on your cargo, and you are cut off
from all the markets to which they are
hollile; and indeed from our experience in
the present war, I may fay you are cut off
fiom the market of your carriers them
selves, as it would have been impossible for
Britifli veflels to have escaped in our seas
lait summer. To what extent this loss
goes may be seen from a calculation in
the Secretary of State's report on the filh
eries, making the proportion of war to
that of peace in the 100 years as 42 to
100; and on that calculation there can be
r.o hesitation in determining that the in
terest of the farmers requires that this
foreign dependence (hould end here.
But the European war, by making a
temporary exclusion of British {hipping
lias already brought on us the greatelt
mifchief of such a regulation; and by the
encouragement it has afforded to our (hip
ping, almost compleated the remedy ; so
that we have reason to consider this as a
fortunate period. But it is not merely
the advancement of our marine that is
contemplated by the present resolutions,
the security of that which we have is also
dependant on them. The danger from the
Algevines has been eflimatedin this house
at j per cent on the vefTel and cargo, but
the whole encouragement to our own (hip
ping; in our exifling laws consists in the
one tenth additional duty on goods im
ported in foreign vefTels. Whenever there
(hail be an European peace, which cannot
be far distant, the whole difference between
the two sums will be a direct encourage
ment on British (hips and will probably
be equal to two freights. Do gentlemen
rely on the precarious profpeft of build
ing frigates, and the more precarious ser
vice to be rendered by them when built,
fa much as to neglect any other regula
tions for the fafety of our (hipping when
tl ley are so much in their power 2
(To be Continued.)
Foreign Intelligence.
On Tuesday lafl the Sloop Hiram, Captain
Harris, arrived at New-Tork from
London, astir 52 days pafjage, By this
•vefe!, Londoti papers to the 17th of No
•vernier arc receivtd, from which thi fol
lowing are extraMs :
MANHEIM, Oft. 21
I The Republicans are now bulled en
trenching themfclves about Savernc, a de
file not easily to be penetrated. Landau
has been summoned ; but the comman
dant aqfwered, that he would hare the
whole town burnt and pillaged rather than
surrender, as he would at any rate, lose
-his head were he to give up that Fortress.
BRUSSELS, Nov. 7.
The grand army, under the Prince of
Cohourg has moved forward. The head
quarters have been transferred from Ber
merain to Engel-la-fontaine.
TOURNAY, Nov. 12.
Large detachments of troops have ar
rived here for the winter. Since the ac
tion at Lannoy nothing has occurred
Mod of the wounded officers who were
here are recovered.
The few last day 9 of our ftav in the
bleak plains of CHiring, we experienced
the greatest inconvenience ; the disposition
the enemy betrayed to terminate the cam
pilign.juflified our retreat to winter-quar
ters, a circumstance as unexpe&ed, as it
is gratifying; at Menin, Courtray, Ypree,
&c. the army is cantoned for the present:
Ghent and Bruges are the principal posts.
The guards go to BrufTels.
NAMUR, Nov. 2,
By report of the peasants, it seems
that there has been a very warm action be
tween Gen. Beaulieu and the French the
day before yesterday, in the neighbour
hood of Phillipfville. The loss of the
Auftnans alone is estimated at between 2
and 3000 men. Waggons are gone from
thence to bring in the wounded, for whom
it will be difficult to find place, as the hos
pitals are already full ; three large con
vents have also been converted into hos
pitals.
BRUMDT, (in Alsace) Oft. 2,
The career of our fucct-fs ia checked.
We have been most uaexpc&ly ftopt by an
army of jo,ooo French, who have advan
tageously polled themfelvi.-s near Stras
bourg, and entrenched townrds the fide of
the Saverne. Gen. Wurmfer, fees him
felf reduced to the necessity of a&ing on
the defenfive, as well as the Pruflians on
this fide of Saverne, who have been ob-
liged to fall back, and to support themselves
by the right wing of the Auflrian army.
We imagine that a general action is now
indifpenfablt, as 'we cannot remain eight
days in our present pafition without the
most imminent hazard, and we have no
longer any tiling to hope from the favora
ble dispositions of the people of Stra/bourg.
Our negotiations were discovered; and
the Commiifioners from the Convention
have so effe&ually intimidated all thofc
who were inclined to open the gates to. us—
so many of them have indeed been seized,
and so many more denounced—that we
dread the fate of our incursion. This
aftonifbing army of Republicans has been
formed in three days, and it swells like a
torrent. They are half armed, and want
every thing but an cnthuliafm for liberty,
which perhaps is better than our discipline.
Qur hope is, that the Swifj Cantons will
at length give up their system of neutra
lity, and declare against these Anarchifti.
PARIS, November 7.
Execution of Philip Egalitc. ,
This celebrated personage yesterday un
derwent an interrogatory before the ReJ
, volutionan- Tribunal. AH that is hither
to known of what parted there is that be
ing questioned refpefting his intimacy with
Sillery, the deputy lately executed, he
answered, "I was attached to Sillery un
til the moment that I refufed any longer
to fee him."—' You have neverthdefs
(fays the Piefident) committed the care
of your children to his.wife who is now
with them abroad."—" Yes (anfwired
Egalite) but that was at a time when I
had no cause to fufpeft Sillcry."
This moll villainous, most cowardly,and
mofl infamous of wretches, was condemn
ed to death at the feme fitting at which
he was tried ; and yesterday evening, at
half past five o'clock, he was executed on
the Place de la Revolution, three hours
after judgment was pronounced ugainft
him.
On the fame day that Egalite fuffered,
and on the fame fcaffold, Was like wife exe- ,
cuted, Coqftard, another Deputy of the-
Convention.
Bailly, the..late Mayor, willfoon fuffer
a similar fate ; he has been trantferred to
the Coneiergerie, and so has General
Carles.
General Houchard and Brunet; and
M. Barthelemy, the author of the Voy
ages of Anacharfis, have been also trans
ferred from the Abbaye to the Concier-
gene.
The total number of perfcns confined
in the several prisons, was yesterday 3255.
The wife of Roland Is ihortly to ap
pear before the revolutionary tribunal, to
give information refpefting the retreat of
her husband, or to undergo the punish
ment which wa» reserved for that Ex-
Minister.
Madame Kolli, wife of the Ex-Farmer
General of that name, had obtained a
suspension of her feutence, by declaring
herfelf with child. The time for that
proof being elapsed, (he was yesterday de
livered over to the guillotine. Lemayne,
Wamfer, Lacombe, and Purguette, mem
beri of the Popular Commiflion at Bour
deaux, have' (hared the fame fate.
Execution ef Ekissot and Twenty other
Deputies.
On the 21 ft O&ober, BrifTot and twen
ty other Deputies, fuffered the axe of the
guillotine. The following is the official
report published hy order of the revolu
tionary Tribunal on this head :
The Tribunal, an the declaration of the
jury, dating, that BrifTot, Vergniaud,
Genfonne, Duprat, Valaze, Lehardi, Du
cos, Boyer, Fonfrede, Boileau, Gardien,
Duchaftel, SiHery, Fauchet, Duperrtt,
La Source, Carra, Reuvan, Mainville,
Antiboul, Vigee, and Lacaze, are the au
thors or accomplices in a conspiracy which
has exiited again ft the unity and indivisi
bility of the Republic : againlt the liber
ty and fafety of the French people.
" Condemns the above-mentioned per
sons to death ; declareß their effects con
fifcated for the use of the Republic, and
orders that the sentence be executed in
the place de la Revolution and that it be
printed and distributed throughout the
Republic."
VaJaze, one of the condemned, stabbed
himfelf after he had heard his sentence.—
The Tribunal has ordered, that the car
cafc of the suicide be brought to the
place de la Revolution, that it may be bu
ried with the other condemned Deputies
in the fame place.
On the day after their condemnation,
the}' were- conveyed together, to the bloo
dy fcaffold ; on their journey thither, fays
one of the French papers they enterediiito a, very feriout and eloquent debate,
rrfpe&ing the Immortality of the Soul;
ira this fubjeft, they are said to hare ulti
mntely agreed, that the Intellectual Spark
survives the dlffolution of the body.
The execution took place between ele
ven and twelve o'clock, and though per
formed as speedily as poflible, took up
the space of thirty-fix minutes.
They all preserved a solid firmnefa,
and individually at the moment of being
stretched upon the machine, exclaimed—
Vive la Republic ! Vive la Nation !
Briffot himfelf, except on this occasion,
was thoughtful and silent.
Sillery smiled and bowed on every fide,
to the fpeftators.
Fauchet, the Constitutional Bishop,
was attended by a Confeflbr, with whom
he was much engaged in a v«ry serious
discourse.
Carra appeared indifferent, said little,
and looked contemptuously.
Cbrftfbor.dena of the JacoMnt.
Rouen, 6ft. 30.
The monopolizers are exercifirig on us
tlieir perfidious manoeuvres, and we are in
dreadful want of provisions: the Revolu
tionary army and the guillotine mufl be
put in motion.
Befancon, Oft. 2J,
We have received information, that a
second La Vendee is preparing in the
mountains of Befancon, in which large
bodies of difaffe&ed men have afiembled.
Several inhabitants of the mountains
have retired to the Swiss villages of Mes
sier and Landrail.
LONDON, November 9,
The French are encamped within a
league of Fumes. The British emigrants
are fortifying Nieuport, and the inunda
tion is continued.
The light companies of the militia re
giments have received orders to'noldthem
felves in readiness to march at an hour's
notice, and every man is to be provided
with 46 round of ball cartridges.
The fleet lately arrived from Spain has
brought over the luni of 30,ooodo!s. specie
being the second stipend towards fa
tisfyingthe demands of the adventurers
concerned in the Nootka Sound Busi
ness.
Trial of' BrifTot, and the other Accused
Deputies..
Brilfot and the other deputies were car
ried before the Revolutionary Tribunal on
the 23d ult. They were each in
terrogated.
The Revolutionary Tribunal has been
previously divided into 2 fettions, for the
morefpeedy difpatchof bufinefsjjt One of
the feftions was to confine itfclfffolely to
the trial of the deputies.
On the 25th ult. in the morning, they
were conveyed from the different prifom
to the court of justice.
The indictment igainft BrifTot was firC
read by the public accufcr. He heard V
with tranquillity and fortitude. After
wards were read the several indictments a
gainst
Verginaud Fonfrcde
Dupetret La Source
Carra Beouvait
Gardien Duchaftel
Valaze Mainville
Duprat Lacaze
Sillcry Lehardy
Faiichet Antiboul
Boileau and
Diicos Vigee.
Thrfe persons were then severally ques
tioned relative to their profeflions.
Antiboul replied, that his occupation
was to defend the rights of the people,
and to prosecute tyrants.
The other deputies replied, that they
were deputies to the national convention.
The President of the revolutionary tri
bunal then aflced them whether they had
chosen official pleaders to defend them ?
Boileau, deputy for the department of
L'Yonne, declared,- that he had felefted
a person to undertake his defence, but if
he refufed, he would defend himfelf. Brif
fot, Vergniaud, Valaze, Lafource, Sil
lery, and Carre, replied, that they would
defend thcmfelves.
The witnefies were then callcd in and
examined by the public accuser.
The evidence of Pache, the mayor of
Paris, occupied the whole of the firftdav
of the trial. On the second day, Chnu
mette procureur of the commune, He
bert, substitute of the procurer of the
commune, a"-.! Dellournelles, min'ftcrof
tlie contributions, were examined.
(Tale Continued.J
November 14.
Intelligence was received yesterday at
Lloyd's by the Aguila, arrived eft" Dover
that the Madras airay wfcnt on the I oth
and 1 ith of June againll Pondicherry,
which is said to have surrendered on the
Ift of July. The French had marched
to attack Fort St. Divids.
Cairicial had also been taken by the
and a French Indiaman captur
ed in the Roads.
Infurreftions still prevailed at the Mau
ritius,where the white cockade was moun
ted by many of the Royalists.
November 16.
Accounts received from Manheim of
the 4th inft. give a confirmation of the
railing of the siege of Landau. After a
(hort bombardment in the nightof the 3 1 ft
of Oft. the Prussians on the ifl Novem
ber withdrew their artillery from the bat
teries, and returned to their camp, deter
mined to take the town by famine only.
The French are dated not only to have
received reinforcements on the river Saar,
but they have even made movements a
gainst the cordon of Prussian troops, the
latter were obliged to retreat to Pirmafents
—This is said to render the pbfition of
the Auftrians very precarious in exposing
their right. Reports even went so far as
to assert, that the Prussians hid been ob
liged to evacuate the post of Pirmafents,
but which is not confirmed as yet.
Yesterday Capt. Cook of the Spitfire
sloop, arrived at the admiralty office, with
dispatches from Lord Hood, at Toulon,
Vvhich place he left on the 3 ift Oft. His
dispatches are dated the 30th ; but from
the silence observed refpedting their con
tents, we fear they are not of the moll a
greeablenature.
Gen. O'Hara had arrived there from
Gibraltar, with a reinforcement of troops
and the combined forces, composing the
ganifon, amounted to ij,ooo men, who
were in good health, well provided, and
in good spirits. The Republican army
was increasing so rapidly, that the allies
in a few days expected to be in a state
of siege.
A raifunderftanding is said to have a
risen between the British and Spanish ad
mirals, relative to the command of Tou
lon.
November 17.
France has declared war against Genoa.
Letters from BrufTels mention, that the
celebrated M. Condorcet, one of the pro
scribed members, of the Convention, has
found means to make his escape from
France, and is arrived at Lausanne in
Switzerland.
A Paris paper of the Bth mentions, that
in the fittiug of the 7th a letter was read
from Gen. Relagge, who fays that he had
entered Catalonia, after an obflinate en
gagement with the Spaniards.
By advices from Toulon to the 30th of
October, we find that nothing material
had taken place. On the 15th the French
attacked a fort which was erecting to de
stroy one of their batteries. Two hun
dred of the allies were obliged to give
way to superior forces after the loss of
100 men, among whom was Capt. Tor
riano of the 30th.
Letters from Genoa, dated October 23,
mention that General Carteaux and Gar
dam, continue to bombard the forts and
navy of Toulon, but without success.
That the French lirtperiufe of 40 guns,
which was funk, had been raised ; that a
32 pounder burfl on board the Royal
George, killed 16 men, wounding several
others, and {battering the quarter deck.
His Majesty's packet the Halifax, for
Barbadoes and Jamaica; the Grantham
for New-York ; and the Expedition, with
one mail and government dispatches for
Lifbod, were detained at Falmouth by
contrary winds, when the last accounts
came away.
Advice has been received at the Admi
ralty, that the Alligator privateer, of Jer
sey, lias taken two valuable Danilh (hips,
laden with military (lores f»r Brest, and
sent them into that island. The Alligator
hoiftea the French National Flag, and by
that means deceived the Danes, who sup
posed her to be aftu,illy a French vefiel.
A letter from Havre, dated the 2d inff.
informs rs, that all the English tradesmen
and merchants, who .vere taken up in that
city, have been released, and their property
reflored to them.
The French by a late general attack
on the frontiers, poffefied themselves of
several polls; but by the dispatches to
Administration, it appears, they have
been driven from tnfm again—Mar
chicnncg, Menin, Furnes, scc. are again in
the pofleflion of the combined forces.
Mifcrllatuotu Intelligence,
Twelve companies of gunners, two
squadrons of cavalry, and three battalions
of the Revolutionary army, set out from
Paris yeiterday. Their defoliation il for
the camp before Toulon.
Madame Roland is at present on her
trial before the Revolutionary Tribunal.
Her behavior is firm, and her abfwers to
the questions put to her evinces much pre
sence of mind.
.General Vergennes has been arretted on
suspicion of treason, at Rennes.
The chief of the etat Major of the
Rhine, Hellier, had been sent to Paris by
St. just.the National Commiflioncr. He
is now in the Abbaye.
The feftion of Mucius Scsvola has
adopted ?. resolution tending to diflblve the
Department of Paris. The resolution
wns sent to the other 47 feitions. The
feftion of Arc's denounced this measure,
declaring that th» department had never
loft their confidence.
The council of the commune suspended
the resolution of the feftion of Mucius
SciEvola, and appointed a committee to
represent to the feftion, the impropriety
of their conduct, and to oppose the meet
ing which the feftion proposes to hold on
the fubjeft, on the 9th inft.
Taillefer, the Deputy, has been de
nounced in the Jacobin Club, for having
rtiarried an Aristocratic woman.
The army of the Rhine is in want of
cavalry. A large detachment is to be font
immediately.
From the Brujfch Gazette,
Lieutenant-General Baron de Beaulieu
reports that on the 2d in the morning* he
was attacked in hit position of MetteZ,
by a hostile corps of 6000 men, which he
repulsed, after killing 200 of them.
The General of Aitillerv, Count de
Clairfavt, reports likewise, that his ports
of Pont and BuiHieres, haying been at
tacked on the fame day, the enemy di
fefted against the latter pod a battery
of eight pieces of cannon, without hav
ing been able, notwithstanding their brisk
fire to difiodge our picqucts.
The post of Merbes k Chateau was al
io attacked at the fame time ; but the
prudent drfpofitions of the Colonel of the
rjgiment of Wurtemberg, Count de Cout
ncuiVand of Latour, fruftrated in a man
ner the attempts of tlie enemy 111 those
quarters:'
From the London Gazette*
wi-iitehall; Not. 12
By intelligence received from the Earl
of Yarmouth, dated Brumbt, Austrian
head-quarters, October 24, it appears,
that on the morning of the 27, General
Wurmfer, having received information
that Hagenau had surrendered to the ad
vanced corps, under Gen. Mageroes, he
immediately put the bulk of his army into
motion, and arrived there that night, a
few hours before it had been eyacuatcd by
the enemy, who had made so precipitate
a retreat, as to neglect breaking down
the wooden bridges over which the artille
ry was to pass. That, on tbe 18th, the
French encamped on the right fide o.
Zorn, a small river that runs through
Brumbt—but on perceiving some interval
between Gen. Mageroes advanced corps,
confining of about 6000 men, and the o
ther columns of the army, they crofted the
river, and attacked him with their whole
force, in the evident expectation of turn
ing his flank, and cutting him off from
the reft of the army. The a£tion laded 7
hours—but upon perceiving the reft, of the
Austrian army move forward, the French
re-crofled the river, and evacuated the
heights and town of Brumbt, of which
the Auftrians took pofleflion. The loss
on the part of the French, is estimated to
be about 800 men, and that of the Auftri
ans nearly half that number killed and
wounded. That the prince of Waldeck
had advanced with his corps from Sohk,
and marched along the banks of the Rhine
—That he had compelled the surrender of
Drugenheim, and after having driven the
garrifen of Fort Louis, with less, had in
verted the place. That, in the conrfe of
tbe night, the French had abandoned their
position on the Zorn, retreated under the
cannon of Stralburgh. That Gep. Wurm
fer was at the diflance of nine English
! miVs from that place.
la addition to the see-tints r,lrc.;.dy
publiflltd, of forcing cbe lines of Wjflern
bourg aud Lauterhoilrg, it appears that
the Auitrirn army ha<i between seven <*nd
eight hundred men killed and wounded,
and that the loss of the French coufifted
of between 3 of 4000 killed ; from 5 to
6000 pnfoners, and 26 pieces of cannui:,
with their ammunition, waggons and hor
ses. The retreat of the French on dif«
occasion was greatly favored by a thick
fog.
FALMOUTH, Nov. 10.
This day arrived the Dispatch, Hath
away, in 27 days from Philadelphia } and
the Martin, VVatfon, from Norfolk, in
Virginia, for London. They are )>oth
under quarantine, and all communication
with the fliore is flopped, till an order of
Council arrives to rcleafe them.
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 24.
We hear that a riot lately took place
near Burlington, New-Jersey, occai.oißil
by opposition to the law of that state, im
posing fines for non-performance of mili
tia duties—We also learn tiiat it Vias quel'
led without any great difficulty.
The British October packet arrived at
Halifax the 26th November, and failed
from thence two or three days after for
England. The November packet, we are
informed, may be hourly expected to ar
rive at New York.
The business which principally irngag*
ed the attention of the House of Rtpre"
fentatives of the United States this day,
was thefurther discussion of Mr. Madison's
Resolutions-—on which no vote has yet
been taken.
Congrel's meets To-Morrow,
A (hip of 18 gtins is arrived at Nor
folk, Virginia, from Brett in 7 weeks—'
and we hear tiiat preparations were mak
ing to fire a feu de joye at Norfolk, on ac
count of the news this fliip has brought.
The mail due fror.i the eajliuard of Nev>~
. Tort yejlerday, had not arrived at that
City when the Pojl which arrivedycjlerday
from ihence, left it.
The eajlern mail due this day, <wai not
in, when this Paper went to press.
OCS" Newspapers being, on account of their
bt/li, sent by the Stage.r, which set off fever
hours before the Mail is closed, otcaftons tht
arrangement referred to, In ytjlerday's paper.-
The letterfrovi Paterfon % to-morrow.
SHIP NEWS.
Arrivals at New-York, Jan. 23,
Ship Swift, Steel, Cork
Juno, Rathbone, Nantucket and
[South Sees
Brig Fire Sifters, Peck, Havannah
Independence, Wood, Cadiz
Eliza, Harding, Liverpool
William, Gorham, St. Martins
Julia, Se)mour, ' Poiu Petre
Nancy, Powais. Kingston
Sch. Federal, Lewis, Guadaloupe
Lydia, Oaks, .Barbados
The following remarks are copied from
the Log-book of Capt. Harding, of the
brig Eliza, from Liverpool.
December lift, spoke the brirnntine
Mary, Aris, of Marblehead, from BilKa,
out 49 days homeward bound. Captain
Aris informed Jlim, that the Algerines
had captured npwaids of 50 fail of Ame
rican veflels.
December 28th, fpokc the. schooner
Induflrv, P. Sieves, of Richmond, bound
to Cork, 11 diys out—all well.
Same day, lpoke the brig George &
Harriet, Barnard, of Bofion, bound to
Philadelphia, 93 days out—all welL
War Atlas.
To-Morrow toil] be published,
f Price a dollar and a half)
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Markct-Jlrut,
A Colle&ion of Maps,
Including the whole of the various Scat* ot
the present War in Euro's e. *\r.
If AP of the United Provtncoaof Holland,
IVA Fiieftand, Overyffic 4 , Gel
drrs, Utrecht, and Zea'and.
2. Marp ot the Trench, Dutch, and Anftrian
Netherlands.
3. Map of Fiance divided inter circles aed
departments.
4. Map of Spain and Portugal.
5. Map of Germany and Sv. icxrrland,
K. B. Any of the above Mapi may he hats
separate.
Said Carj has lately pubTifhcd
Account of Alrms —with a Map—i7»oj.
Account of thr Malignant Feyrr, 4111
3/9—Dr. Nafly« Treatifr o» do,—
Jan. 24. 41. sawjust Imported,
Front LuNDONt flusiiN ami Glasgoit,
\ ,0 (•%!«*' opening
MATHEW CAREY,
sit No. 118, Market Jlrcrt,
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
A n-K.ft arc t.\e foin>w».g
Nr c: :► Ke.rutf. f'.r l 792
I Eu:';v)«ini Magazine so: the firft >*
months of 1793
Gmtwns decline ami fill oftlw Rnma.ilun|wre
Memoirs of rhe Manrhctter locicty, 3 vols.
Priettlv on matter and ipint
on chrill unity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortjn
Kingvillc's ancient geography
D' A'toirs of Guy Joli
Msfinfv. .1 Collection of effa.ys
Varieof PrufTia's wo- k*
Calm obiervei —by Mackintosh
R ulleff's ancient and mode n Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, fuperMy gilt
Elegant extiaft": of natural n'itory
Saugnfcr and griffon's voyage
Rachon's v.age to Madagaicar
Townfend's travels in Spain
TaflVs Jexufalem del vercd
SineMie's tra llario" ot Buifon
Berwick's hifloi v of quadrupeds
Butfon abridged
History of l)»rt|s
PhilioVs history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History offiance, m 3 vols.
Curiolitie . of literatuie, 3 vol".
\V hi taker's dite >ce of queen Mary
Sheridan', dictionary. 2 volt.
Don'! history of Hindotlan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key. to polite litera'.u'e.
Imlay's d- r cription ot K.ntucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston 011 masonry
Lavater on abridge#
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life i>f D • John's!
Necker on executive power
Kiifes of Secundrts
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
— Travels
Vo'i J r's t>aveb, with foperb e.sgravinp
Dowmain'sinfiincy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on matenaiifm and immaterial ilm
c'iold's advice to patriotic travellers
Bunder's rnagaxine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life ot»"V oltaire
De N'oi-N trave'
Franklin's lite ard works
Grozier's dctcriptioii of China
Murphy's tranflat'.on ot Tacitus
Godwin on poltical justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 w '°' Sv
Helvctius on man
Kajmes's (ketches of the history of man
Lih-i al opinion., or the history ot Benignm
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of-the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
R.everies of fol'itude
Smith'* theory of moral sentiments
Stackhnuftj's iiiftory of the bible
Wat(oa's life of Philip lid. &: IHd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Win ley's wonders of the little world, ca.led
man
Wall s on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark, Ruflia,Polaiji,&c.
Cox's 'ravels into Switzerland
Rabat's hiflory ot't'ne French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Ma let's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical di^.onary
Gr'gg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&ice of mid-
wifeiy
Manning's practice of phytic
Gleglnjin'* diseases of Minorca
lone* 011 the mufcies
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
A«"mftrmg on d It*ales of children
Quincy's d fpenfotory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Rvaii on the aftlima
Robe*-tfon's treatise on feverl
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nichollbn'schemiftry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Mate ia Medica
Fordvce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the difealcs of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Hallei's phvfiology
Spalanzane's d.flertatimis
London practice of phytic
Bell's forgery
Chaptal's cbemiftry.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, account# da
ted or eollr&ed, employers fuiied with
doracttics, house rooms, boarding and lodging
mled let or procured—fold it i 's, mariner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims on the
public ; lhaies in the banks, in «liecanalf, and
the tutnpiKe road . certifiralct granted by the
public, and the old and late paper monies;
notes <■! h«nd, bills, bonds and morgages, with
or without depo'iu—Bought, fold, or rego
ciared at No. 8, in south Sixth street, below
Market-ftrect by FRANCIS WHITE,
Who tranfa&i business in th» public offisei for
country people and others, by virtue of a pow
er of attorney, or by peifoaal application.
Occcmber 11.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying-
ground,
this opportunity of returning his
I grateful thanks to his former employers,
and leqaifting their future favors, as well as
tiiol'e ot the public in general.
He continue. to make and repair at the
shortest notice, aif kinds,of pleasure carriages,
Juc'i ,as coacrw: , chariots, pfstr'diis with a d
without craibe necks, dntiies, kittc-
Te'*ns, windior fulkeys and chaiis, and hai nels
o'. evwy detci iptioi., in the ntatcll and'ne*\tit
'fa (hi on now prevailing mi the United Stares.
And as he has a quantity of the best fcafoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least dou >t but he will be able to give
latisfaftion to ttto e to employ him.
He lias for sale, fevcral carriages almost
finiflied, such as coattiee.*, an Italian wind for
chair, hung on steel springs, a ligl't photon tor
ant or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
t'»p.
Carriages fold on C.ommiffion.
h"ii|aHelphi;«, ]an. 6. i~qV- rt\i>rt3m
A LL persons having any demand against
11 the Eftare and Effects of* Mrs. MARY
SINDiIEY, widow, late of Frankford, Ox
ford townftiip, in rile State of Pennfyivania,
iiepeafed; are desired to produce their ac
counts t » Jacos Lew* and William Creed,
(in Frank lord, afiareTaid,) Executors and Ad
mimftfiito«*s <>f the above in oider for feitle-
iaent. And whoever i* indebted to laid El
iMcyStc. are req.ucft.ed to m«-k«J payment to
t'ie ut'orel'aid Administrators, on or before the
t&th'ctf March, 1794, or they will be dealt
Fra iJtford, D r. 16.
Brokers
Stock
No. 16, W«U-ftrect, New-York
TH si Ntow 1 'o loiihn? h'mfelf
entirely to tic PURCHASE & SALE; op
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b.gs leavelo of
} r h'.s trvicesto his iriends and othets, in the
line ol * Stock Broker. Thofc who raay please
to favor htm wilh fheir Imfioefa, may drpfitd
upon naving it tranfaQcd wuh the L tnoll fide
lity and dn paten.
Ouierv from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part ol the.United State*, will l»e llnclly
attended to. LEONARD BLi-fcCKhR.
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookliller, at the Stone House, in Second
ftre&t Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionary
Of A ts, Sciences, and Miscellaneous
Literatuie, on a Plan entirely new ;
BT WHICH
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are digefiid into the form of
Diftindt Trearvs or Sytfenis :
THIS volume contains principles of Level*,
Liberty, Do&iine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, Hiltory of Lon-
don, Longicude. Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illuiiratid with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number ol families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arere'urned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the fubferibers to call or fend for their vo
lume* s, that they may be supplied as early as
poilible.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now pre fen ted to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an imperfect state, foiuc ac
coun i of the reason <>f that imperfection Ibould
be the Bth of September last, the
Pnbliiher had the misfortune of having his
Printing Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the Figuees, with
which he was printing the tables of lo
garithms, belonging to the prelent volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of thefc could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the neceffitv of pub
lifting the volume without the c taslbs; but
hopes he dial! be able to publifli them with the
next volume which is now in considerable for-
wardnefs.
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
exprefling his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has
honored; at the fame time lie takes the Ji-
berty of representing to ftich of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfrble necefllry of
pun&uality, both in taking up (he volumes as
early as portible after publication, and of pay
ing for them \yhen taken. Many of the sub-
fcribers having got only one, two, thiee, See.
volumes, and several volumes remain vkpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different Cages
from the coaunencemcr.t; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these triples unpaid fays the Publisher under
very feriou* embarraflment, and deprives him
of the use of many Thonfands of Dollars which
at this time would be of very eflential service.
For tbefc reasons the Publilher finds himfelf
under the neceflHy of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those who
take and pay to the time of publication.
Dccemfrci I#.
A New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And 16 be fold by
R. AITKEN,
No. 23, MarketJlreet,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philadelphia, for promoting Ufcfnl
Knowledge, Vol. 3. Pncc tofinlmarii
CT The subscribers are requested to call I
sis above directed for the 3d vo '* w ' icrc ma y
be had, complete setts uniformly printed.
Contents of Vol. 3d.
1. An efiay 011 tliole enquiries in Natu'al Ph*-
loiopliy, which at present areltioft benefiei
al to the United States of North America.
Dr. KicUlai Collin,
2. Conje&nres concerning the formation of
the earth, fee. Dr. B. Franklin.
3. A new and curious theory of Light and
Heat. Dr. B. Franklin.
4. Defcript'on of the process to be observed
in making large facet* ot paper in the Chi
nese manner} with on® smooth furface.
Dr. B. Frai kfin.
5. Queries and conjectures relative to Mag
netism, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Frank/m.
6. Explanation of a lingular phenomenon, firft
observed by Dr Franklin, and not latislac
to rjjy accounted for. Mr. R. Pattsrjon.
7. An account of an Earthy Subftar.ee found
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls; together with
some remarks on the Falls.
Robert Kl'CauJin, M. D.
8. Obfervat'ons on the probabilities of the
j duration of Human Life, and the progrels
of population, in the United Stales of Ame
rica. H'l/ham lUiloh y Fjq.
9. A letter containing observations made at
Lake Erie, on that lingular phenomenon,
by teamen termed looming.
Andretv illicit EJq.
ID. An Account of the Sugar Maple-'1 rec
of the United States, and of the methods
of o'btain'u'g Sugar from it, together with
observations upon the ad vantages both pub
lic and privSte of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rujk> M D.
tt. IWeqioir on the use of the Thermometer
t&fHT.
Office,
in difcoveiing Banks, Soundings, &.(■
Jonathan ni'ficms, Esq.
•2. An Account of the most efle«slual means
of preventing the deleterious confequencei
of the bite of the Crotalus Horrid us,, or Rat
tle Snake. Henyartrin Bartgn, M. D.
j3. Magnetic Oblervations, made at the Uni
vcrfity of Cambridge, (Maftachu'rttiJ
Dr. S. WiHu ns.
14. Accurate determination of the right af
cenHon and declination of Bootes, and the
Pole Star. Andrew EUicoit, EJf
-15. Account of several Houses in Philadelphia,
{buck with Lightning, on June 7th, 1789.
David Rittcnhoufe, £fq
-16. An Account of the efieAs of a ltroke of
Lightning on a Houle furniflied with.two
Condn Divid Rittcnkeufc, and Francis
Hjpkinf 9», Efyts.
17. Experiments and Observations on Evapo
ration in cold Air. C. M. D.
18. Postscript to Mr. Barton's Letter, to
Dr. Rittenhoufe, of the 17, of March, 1791.
19. New Notation of Music.
Mr. R. Patwfon.
20. Observations on the Theory of Water
Mills, &c. W. Waring.
19. Agronomical Observations.
David Riitcyhovfe.
23. A letter relative to a method of find tog
the sum of the feveial powers of the Sines,
Bsc. David Rittcnhoufc, Esq.
21. Index Florae Lancaftrienfis.
Hen J ico Muhlenberg, D. D.
22. Investigation of the power of Dr. Bar
ker's Mill, as improved.by Jaines Ruuiley,
with a description of the null. Waring.
23. A Thermometrical Journal of the tern
-perattjre of the Atmosphere and Sea, 00 a
voyage to and from Oporto, wirk explana
tory observations thereon.
'Jonathan Wiliiamj, Esq.
24. Fi ft memoir of observations on the plants
denominated Cryptogamick.
M. Dc Beauvois.
25. A letter, containing obfer»ations 011 the
ancient typrks of Arr, the Native Inhabi
tants, See. of the Wefteni Country.
Major Jonathan Heart.
26. An account of some ot' the principal dies
employed by the North American Indians.
ExtredYedby the late Mr. Hugh. Martiv
-2- An account of the beneficial effects of the
Caflia Chamsecrifta in recruiting worn-out
lauds, and in enriching such as are natural
ly poor ; together with a botanical descrip
tion of the plant.
Jamei Gr err way of Virginia.
28. An account of a hill 011 the borders of
North Carolina, fuppofcd to have been a
volcanQ, irt a letter from a Continental of
ficer, t<» Dr. J. Grtenuay, Virginia.
29. An Account of a poitonous plant, grow
ing spontaneously in the tot*! hern part of
Virginia. Extracted from a paper by
Dr. Jama Greetrwav, Virginia.
30. Description of a Machine for roealir ing a ■
(hip's way. Ftardt Htpki-Jon. Ffy.
31. An Inquiry into the question, whether*he
Apis Mellifica, or tiue Honey-Bee, is a na
tive of America. Benjamin Smith Bartcr, t M.D.
32. An Account of a Comer.
David RitUnhtmfe, IJq.
33. Cadmus or a Treatifeon the Elements cf
Written Language, luftratinp, by a Pliilo
fophical division of Speech, the power of
each chara&ei, thereby mutually fixirg the
Orthography and Orthoepv. With an Essay
on the of teaduog the Deaf, or Suul
sawtij.
and confeqoentlv ,Domb to speak, byWnv
Thornton, M. D. Honored with the Ma
gellanic Oold Medal, by the PbilofophieMl
Society, in December, 1 1 -
Cddmni u printed in a fine 8. vol. aad told
by tire Pub!ifiler hereof.
i_l. "oblervatio:n oil the Tfceory of Water-
Mills. If
js An Improvement on Metalic
or Lightning rod-.. Mr. Roltrt FtUctJon.
Honored with the Magellanic Premium, by
an Award of the Society in December 1 791.
36. An easy and expeditious methoil i f <rif
fipating the «oxious Vapour cTSlllrtsunlT
found in Wells and other fubten anemis
places. Ucnticr Rftitfim, hjq.
37. A method of draining Poods in level
grounds. .7# Higgim.
JB. Observations on the severity of the win
ter, 1779, 178 a. Ktn, M*tthvw. Kit/on.
39- A Description of a new Standard for
Weights and Measures; io a letter from
Mr. John Cooks, of Tipperiry in Ireland.
40 DeCcription of a SpriNc-BioCK, deligned
to aflilt .1 VelTel in failing. F rutin ttofkh-
Jot, t'-fa- Honored with the Magellan*
Gold Medal, i>y a" Award ol' the Society
in December 179-'
December 20.
ADVERTISEMENT
FOR the benefit of those who maybe con
cerned it may not be improper to notict,
that the United States, by their Ast of the i*ti»
of February 1793» ordered that all Claims of
the description cherein mentioned, arfd which
originated previous to the 4th of March I 789.:
be profented at the Treasury 011 or before tire
firft day of Ma> otherwise they wrH
44 for ever thereafter, be barred, and exvlu
*4 ded from lettlement or allowance/' And
as there inav be several Creditors of the Uni
ted States, holding Certificate's or other Se
curities, which form a part of the Donreftic
f)ebt, and who wish to fubl'cribe to tbe Loan,
they are reminded that the term for receiving
fub'.criptions at the Trealury, is by the Ast cl
the Un.ited States, pafled the second of March
last, e?ttenflcd to the la 1 ft day of June, 1794.
'.The following is an extaci from tljtf
Limitation above referredto :
Sictiok I. 44 Be it enacted hv the Senate
ami House of Reprefent-atives of the United
Stages of America, in Con£re'fs Sflenibled—
That all claims upon the United States, for
Services or Supplier, or for «>tl t*r canfc, mat
tef or thing, furnifhed or done, previous to
,the 4th day of March 1789, whether sou' dod
upon Certificates, or other w ri t ten doty men ts
from Public Officer* or otherwise, which have
not already been barred by any Ast of Limi
tation, and which fliall not be prefcntcd at
t!>e Trealury before the si ft day of Maj 1 794,
(hall forever after be barred and prescribed
from settlement or allowance : Provided,
•"that nothing herein contained, shall be con
st ued to affaft Loar-Ofrlce Certificates, Cer*
tificates of Final Settlements, Indents ot" ln
teraft, in the books of the
regrftfcr of tUftt' "uty commonly called regif*
tered certifW* ' <ns of monies obtained in
foreign coflr . ?»r certificates iflued pursu
ant to the k ititied 44 An Ast, makingpro
vifion for k ' ;cbt of the Uutted States.
VIRTISEMENT,
) pi Y virtue ofa Writ tome
Suflex County, (T. $ JD dtie£hd, Ulucd out of
the High Court ol Chancery of New- Jersey, at
the fait of 'William Shipley agaioil Jonn M:ng
and other*; I (hall cxpofe to (ale at Public Ven
due, on the sixth day ol Eebruaiy next, bet * em
the hours of Twelve and five in the Afternoon
of the (amp day, on the Premise*, the following
defciibed Trad of Land, with its apppttenancrs,
fittiate in the Towuthip o* Oxtord and County
ot Suflex, beginning at a Chefnut Oak Tiee, coi
ner ol Daniel Cox's land, and li nding in the
line of 9 former fuivey made to Thomas Steveu
i foo, being marked with the letter B. and then «
emending along Coxt's line (fi'ftj loulh"fiftyße
grets weft 6:ty.-ftve chains and fevcniy-five Unks
to a Black Oak Treecorner 61 Joseph Shipper's
land (second) fou.h nine dcgiees and fifteui mj
nutcs. weft ninety chains and fatty five IL.ks u*
a foi ked White Oak Tree, ma< kt 1 with tht let
ters P and H another of the said SnippcuN cor
ners (third) thence north eighty degrees, east one
hundred and foTty-fivs chains, to a post on the
southerly fide of Paquaollr-Rivei, bong al(© a
corner ol John Reading's land (fourth} thmce
north thuiy-nine oc bundled
and thirty-two chains, to the pl-ce of beg'ijnng,
containing nine hundred and thiity acres with
the u'ual .allowance £or roads and high ways—
The fame Premise? are withm rrghj miles ol the
River Delaware, and theieis thereof aconveai
ent Grift Mill >yi;h two pair of StObfc*—a Saw
M il in good repair, with a fu&cieui ftreain of
water for rheir uft—a Dwelling House. Store
House, and several CmaH buildings.
MARK THOMPSON,Sheriff.
Dated 2ad day nf July. 17Q3.
This day is publjjhed\
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. I 18, Ma«RIT.4T r e*t,
(Price a quarter dollar)
A short account of ALGIERS,
Containing a dclcnplion ol I be climate ot lhac
country —ol the mamieis and cuAoma of the io
habuants, and ol their Irveial «.ais aga.nft Spain,
Hnnci-, England, Holland, Venice, and other
oowfis ol Europe, Itom the ulurpalion ol Bar
barr Isa and t ie r.' 'li''" of the hupe'Or CtijilrJ
V. to the wcknt time ; »ilh a cooclfc view of
iheoiijin "I iht iuh !u " I-ciw«ii ALGItRS
snd tht UNITED STATES.
Jan. 9.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed bt JOHN FENNO, No. j.
\ juth Fourtk-Stirct.
eod2w.