EVENING ADVERTISER.
" [No. 140 of Vol. V.] Monday, May 26", 1 794. [Whole No. 556.]
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY and FRENCH
BURR. STONES,
Tor sale by
Gurney and Smith.
May 14.
JAMAICA RUM,
LANDING at Hamilton's wlraif, above
the ■ ou t • the Ihip Bacchus
Ctnt VaN"NI ma; *> t,om JAMAICA,
FOR SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT.
M»y 16. **
innvf A 1 N 1 N G
OF THE
Ship India's Cargo,
FROM
bengal.
A fraall alTortmcnt of
BALE GOODS, :
ljofcrgs COTTON of good quality, which
woultl probably malic an excellent remit
tance to Europe, and a
Quantity of PEPPER
For Sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Who has also to d'tfpofe of
Barcelona Hand'fs. m boxes,
Holland Gin in cases,
Souchong, flyfon, and Tonkay Tea,
A quantity of Biimftone, &c.
Mav 10 r '.3 w
Dr. Moore's Journal in France,
VOLUME Id.
This Day is pubtijhed,
Pcicc 61. Hitched, and 7/6 11ea.lv bound, by
H. & P. R I C E,
Booksellers, No. 50, Market street,
A Journal during a in France,
from [lie beginning of Anguft to the middle of
December 1792 ; To which is added, an ac
count of the noiF remai table events thar
happened at Paris, from that time to the death
of the late Knig of France.
/ By JOHN MOORE, M. D.
Mav 17 5 (
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118.
Maiket-Strect,
An Essay on Slavery,
Drfigned to exhibit in a new point of view
its effe&i 00 indujlryand the peace of
society. Some fa&s and calculations are offered
to prove the labor of Jreemen to be much more
produflive than that ot Jlaves ; that countries arc
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor; and hrncr ihc n ceffar v coaclufion, that
slavery ts impolitic a, well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February ifr.
Congress of the United States,
In Senate, Tiiefaoy May 13 th, 1794.
ORDERED, thar Rtifnt Putnam, Manaf
fah Cutler, Robert Oliver and Griffin i
do, upon the third Monday of Decern- |
ber next, fhe\r cnufe to the Senate, why lb
much ©f tlk* giants of land to them the said
Rufus Putnam, Manaffab Cutler, Robert
Oliver and Griffin Green, pursuant to an Ast
entitled <4 An ast authorizing the grant and
conveyance of certain lands to the Ohio Com
pany of afTociates," fliall not be declared
void, as may interfere with and be fufficient
to fuisfy the claims of the Frenth settlers
at Galliopolis.
Ordered, that the delivery of a copy of
the above order to Rufus Putnam, Manaflah
Cutler, Rohert Oliver, or Griffin Green, and
the publication of the fame, one <Tionth, in
one of iht Gazettes printed in this City, shall
be deemrd fufficient, notice thereof.
Extra# frqm the Journals of Senate.
Attest,
SAM. A. OTIS, secretary.
Mav 14.. tm.
Concluding Sales.
THE Sublcriber having enterti! into Co*
partnerfliip with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the of Sugar Refining, will dispose
of the
Remaining Stock on hand
CONSISTING OF
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By Wholesale at Prime Cojl for Cafb.
John Dorfey,
No. 22, North 3d street.
, ■ April I. tuth&:s6w
For LONDON,
WILLIAM PENN,
NOW lying at Jefle and Robert Wain's
wharf, to fail with all convenient For
freight or paflaee, apply to
JOHN FIELD & SON,
Or,
JESSE' & ROBERT IVALN.
May 13.
INDUSTRY,
.L,lqyd Wharton, Matter.
SHE is intended to fail with the firft veffclt.
and can accommodate a few paffenge; s very
■well. For terms apply to the Captain, or
WHARTON & GREEVES.
May 19. '-'it
For Sale or Charter,
Z ANDROMACHE,
(An American bottom)
- John Moore, Majier.
. IS a stout good velTil, about two vein's old ?
burthen 232 ton??, has only made three voy-
and may be ent to sea at a fm*<l e.v
pence. She .may be lepn at Vine-itieec i>vjjiart,
and the terms made known by to
WHARTON". Sr LEWIS.
March 21.
For Frederickftmrgh and tal
mouth, Virginia,
1 FRIENDSHIP,
Capt. [M'Namara.
Will fail on WtDNESDAI' "ext. For f.eight
or palTige apply 10 the Mailer on b aid, al
JOHN WALN's Wharf, or
EMAAUEL V/ALKER,
WHO HAS FOR .SALE
The Cargo ofjaid Veffel —Coiiftjlir.g of
VliUiiiVlA WHEAT,
ULOLJI,
DEER SKINS, fee.
GINSENG
May 17 (i -
For Sale or Charter,
Burthen 1000 barrels.
itiu >. - 11..U1.U11 f'ft failing new vefl'.l.well
found, and ready for any voyage, either t«
Europe, or the Weft "Indies* for terms ap-
P yl ° DEBLOIS & BRECK.
At their store, bttween Wainut and Cuefnni
Itreet wharves.
May 23 . d
Morris Academy.
THIS inftituiion is now open for 1 ,e iec«p
tidnof lludents undeithe intnudiate care i
Mr. Caleb RulTell, whose abilities as an in
ftruftor, and attachment to the business have
; long been known and approved. He has un
der him the bell alfilUnts in the different
branches—The fcliolars are taught the Ell
- French, Laiin, and Griek languages,
Public-Speaking, Writing, Arithmetic, Geo
graphy, Astronomy, and the various branch
I es ol the Mathematics. The healthy iicua
tion of this place is fiich as to recommend it
to those, who wiflt to have their cktfdren in
t the country. Boarding, waflting, mending,
s &c. will be provided in good families, and
the morals of the scholars carefully attended
F to.
1 The price including tuition, firewood, See..
[ eexcluftvc of the French language) will -not
i xceed thirty pounds proclamation money per
| annum) an addition ol three dollars per quar
ter will be made to fuel) scholars who are
tEught the French language. The Dirc&ors
ar edetermined to pay fucli attention to this
inltitution, as will render it refpeftable and
ufeful.
GABRIEL H. FORD,
TIMOTHY JOHNS, jun. C Dili's
NATHAN FORD, 5
, Mot r.liown, May 15, 1794
: diw.—\r2nl.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogiheads and in cases of 50 boules each.
, ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, bogftieads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front llreet.
Jan. 2,1794. dtf
Just Imported,
In tht fiiip-Abigail, Captain Horton, from St.
Pet ay burgh in Kuffia, and no-w landing at
.KuJjjtl'j wharf,
ttfeiMJ',
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA StttETINCS,
i . RaVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And for idle at tne ttoresof the fubfciiber in
Walnut ftieet, No. 22.
"John Donnaldfon.
April 4. uiw w&>ti
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Houses or Public
Offices,
Two brick 3 story Houses,
HAVINt; btooiils in eatti, wiih lire places
befirte garreis, fnuate on the south wt fterly fide
of Duck ltieet, between Pear and Walnut
liters. Enqui.eof
BENJAMIN U'. MORRIS.
April 17. tuih&stt
Scheme of a Lottery,
T0 raise 39,900 Dollars, on 166,000
Dotlars, deduSitg 15 per Cent, from
the Priz.es—this Lottery conjijts of.
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
14,539 Prizes and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one-and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Dittfloip of the Society for cftablifhing
Ulelul Manuitifluref, having relolvpd to
erect LC) HEiUES tor faiftng On tHu»»K'iD
Thousand Dollars, agreeably to an Att of
the Legifl.ture ol the State ol New-Jetfey, have
appointed the billowing per lont 10 iuperintend
and direfct the drawing ol the laine, viz. Nieho.
las Low, Rufu's Kii)g, Herman Le Roy; James
Watfoii, Richard Hamfon, Atnjali Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, ol the city o( New-York—
Tliomat Willing, Joleph Ball, Matrticw M'Con- '
nei and Andrew Bayaid, o( the city ol Phila
■ldphia—His ExcellcHty Richaid Howell, Elq.
Klias Bond mm, general El as Dayion, Jam s
Pai ker, John Bay»id, D.>tt»r Ltwis Doi.iiam,
i.ainu. 1 W. Stockton, Jolhua M. Wallace, Joseph
oloomfieid, anti Eliilia Boudinoi, of Niw-jcr
ey, who ortei the following Scheme ol a Lot
■ rry, and pWrlge-'themfelvis Co tne public, that
they will uk> every affuraiice and precaution in
theil" power 10 have tlie Monies paid by the
Manager-, from tiivf to time, ab received, into
liic Banks at New-Yoikand Philadelphia, 10
remain for the puipoleof paying Prix s, which
ihall be iinmrdiaely discharged by a check
,10011 one of Ihe Banks.
SCHEME:
x Prize of 20,000 Dol,-I, is 2©,000
j 10,000 10,000
2 5»ooo 10,000
2,000 10,000
10 i,coo 10,000
20 500 ir.,000
100 100 10,000
300 5° 15'°°°
1000 20 fio,ooo
2000 15 30,000
3000 12 36,000
8100 10 81,000
14,530 Prizes.c; 262,000
23,461 Blanks. First drawn ntimber,' 2,000
Lalldrawn number, 2,000
38,000 Tickets at 7 is 266.000
The drawing will commence, under thein
fpethon ot a Committee of the Super attendants,
as (oon as the Tickets are fold, o| ; which timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendants have appointed John N.
Camming, ot Newark, Jacob R. Harclenberge
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Trenton, as immediate Managers theieot, who
have given ample fecuiity tor difchaigirig the
truil tepofed in them.
\£T In order to fecurethe punctual payment
of the Prizes, the Superintendants of the Lottery
have directed that tne Manageis ihall each enter
into bbnds in 4C,000 dollars, with tour fufficient
fecuripi s, to perform their inftiu£tions, tbe sub-»-
which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
(hall receivethe turn of Three Hundred Dollars,
he (hall imfndiately place the fame in orte of the
Batiks ot New-York or Philadelphia, to the
credit,ot the Governor of the Society, and Inch
of the Supcrmiendatus as live in the city where
the monies are placed, to remain there until the
Lottery is drawn', lor thepaymntol the Prizes.
11. The Managers to take fufikient ieeunty
for any Ticket? they may trust, ottaerwile to be
retponublc tor i hem.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Hank, ab
ftr;t£ls*ol whidh (hall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor ol the Society.,
Pattrfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to cither of the above gentle
mrii. information will toe given where tickets
may be had.
February 24. " "tu&ftf.
'From a Landau Paper, of the I2tb Dc
' cemiei- l
SMALL-POX.
A Child of three years old, 1:1 the
confluent fmall-pcix, breathing labonoiifly,
extremely' reltltl's. and the pirftules almoit
unfverfafty exhibiting a deadly whtfeftHs,
v.-as lately happily reUovedrby-tlie applica
tion of a large piece of leather on the ftb
niach, covered with ungiimtum hydrqrgjri
fortius, which was by mistake applied 1
lriftcad of the nuttus, prescribed by a*phy
fician. In a few hours the breathing
foftfched, arid reftlefTnefs subsided; and the
pn (titles difcrivered a disposition to suppu
rate benignly. This cafe has been corifi
dered of such consequence, that an ac
count of it has been published.
From an Englijh Paper.
A REMARKABLE PROPHECY.
Prediction of St. Cefaire, Bishop of Ailis,
in theyear 543, taken from a book in titled
LIBER JVBRABILI3, printed in Gothic
chara&ers, and deposited in the Royal Li
brary at Pars.
" The Adminifirators of this kingdom
(France) ifcall be so blinded, that they flijll
leave ic without defenders—the hand of God
/hall extend itfelf over them, and over all the
rich.—All the Nobles thai! be deprived of
ella'tes and dignity. A diyition thall fprirtg
up in the Church of God, and there fhail be
two husbands, the one true, and the other
adulterous. The legitimate husband Shall be
put to flight, there (hall be a great carriage,
and as great effctfton of blood as in the time
of the Gentiles. The universal Church and
the whole world, ffrall deplore the ruin and
dellruftion of a most celebrated city, the
capital and mistress of Fiance. The Al
tars of the Temples shall be deflroyed ;
the holy virgins outraged, (hall fly from
their monaftcries. The church pastors
(hall be driven from their feats, and the
whole church (hall be dripped of her tem
poral goods—but at length the Black Ea
gle and the Lion (hall appear, hovering
fro/n far countries.
" Mtfeiy to thee, O City of Optionee !
thou (h?lt at the firft rejoice, but thy end *
shall come—Misery to tht'e, O City of
Philosophy ! Thou (halt be fubjefted !
" A captive King humbled, even to
confufion ; but shall at last receive his
Crown, and shall destroy the children of
Brutus."
Congress of the United States.
IN SENATE,
Tuesday, May 13.
The Senate proceeded to consider the
report of the committee, to whom was re
ferred the bill for the relief of the French
inhabitants of GallioJjolhs, and the report
being amended, was agreed to, arid it was
accordingly
Ordered, That Riifns Putnam, Manaf
fah Cutler, Robert. Oliver, and Griffi-
Green, do, upon the third Monday of
December next, shew cauf? to the Senate,®
why so much of the grants bf land 'to
them the said Rufus Ptltnam, Mana(faH
Cutler, Robert Oliver and Griffin Green,
purfiiant to an ast, entitled, " as ast au
thorizing the grant and conveyance df
certain lands to the Ohio Company of As
sociates," (hall not be declared void, as
may Interfere with, and be fufficient to fa
tisfy the claims of the French settlers of
Galliopolis.
Ordered, that the delivery of a copy
of the above order to Rufus Putnam,
Manaflah Cutler, Robert Oliver or Grif
fin Green, and the publication of the fame,
one month,in one of the Gazettes printed
in this city, shall be deemed fufficient no
tice thereof.
A me(Tage from the President of the
United States by Mr. Dandridge his Se
cretary.
Mr. President—The President of the
17 nited States hath this day,approved arid
signed, " An ast to erect a light house on
the head land of Cape Hattcfas; and agtited beacon 011 Shell Castle Ifiapd iu
ihe harbor of Occacock, in th« State of
North-Carolina."
Ordered, That '.he Secretary acquaint
the Houte of Representatives therewith.
A melfage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their Clerk :
" M. Prefidcnt—The House ,of Re
presentatives have pafied a bill, entitled,
" An ast for the relief of Reuben Smith
and Nathan Strong," in which they de
iiie the concnrrehce of the Senate." And
he withdrew.
The bill Isft brought lip for concur
rence was read the firft time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the fe
csnd leading.
The petition of Dennis Mc Ready
and others, in behalf of the manufac
turers of tobacco and * :iiff, against an
additional tax un those articles, was pre
sented and read.
Ordered, That this petition lie oil the
table.
Mr. Ellfv.-orth from the committee to
whom was referi-ed the bill, to authorize
Diftrift Judges to adjourn Circuit Courts,
reported the bill amended, and the report
being agreed to, and the bill amended ac
cordingly ;
Ordered, That the rule be so "far dis
pensed with as that this bill be now,.read
the third time.
Resolved, That this bill pass, that it
be engrolted, and that the title thereof be,
•' An ast further to authorize the ad
journment of Circuit Courts."
Ordered, That the Secretary defsre
the concurrence of the House of Repre
sentatives in this bill.
After the confideratinn of the Execu
tive bulinefs.
The Senate adjourned to 11 d'clock
to-morrow morning.
Wednesday, May 14th, 1794.
Mr. Ellfworth from the committee to
whom was referred the bill entitled, " An
ast providing for the payment of certain
expenses incurred by Fulwar Skipwith,
on public account," reported amend
ments, which were adopted, and the bill
amended accordingly.
Ordered, That the rule be so far dis
pensed with as that this bill be now read
the third time.
Resolved, That this bill pass with a -
mendments.
Ordered, That the Secretary desire
the concurtence of the House of Repre
sentatives in the amendments to this bill.
A message from the House of Repre- j
fentatives by Mr. Beckley their Clerk :
" Mr. President—The House of Re- I
- prefentatives have pasTed the bill,' sent J
from the Senate for concurrence, entitled.
" An ast further to authorize the ad
journment of Circuit Courts." And he
withdrew.
v The bill sent from the House of Re
• prefentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" An ast for the relief of Reuben Smith
and Nathan Strong," was read the second
time.
, Ordered, That this bill pass to the
third reading.
Mr. Cabot from the committee to
whom was referred the bill, entitled, " An
ast for erecting a light-house on the I
sland of Seguin in the Diltrift of Maine,"
reported amendments, which were adopt-""
ed accordingly.
Ordered, That the rule be so far dis
pensed with as that this bill be now read
the third time.
Resolved, That this bill pass with a
mendmentß.
Ordered, That the Secretary desire
the concurrence of the House of Repre
sentatives in the amendments to this bill.
A motion was made that the next ses
sion of Congress be held at Boston.
Ordered, That this motion lie for con
sideration.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
O
CONGRESS.
House of Reprefentaliies.
May 15.
This day came on in the House of Re
presentative's of the United States, the
consideration of the resolution some time
past laid on the table by Mr. Goodhue,
for guaranteeing an indemnification to
those fufferers who had sustained lodes by
British spoliation on our commerce
Mr. Goodhue moved that the refohi
tion might be referred to a committee of
the whole House, wbich was seconded by
Mr. Dexter—it was then moved by way
of amendment to the motion b" Mr. Day
ton, to these words, " to whom was
rsferrrjfcfrhc r_filuihin for the fequtjlration of
British M'ti, to which Mr. Gbodhue ob
jv/fted, because ,lt? laid fujjjefts jjtere
dillinft and in their natiiri and
flaght not to.be combined ; his resolution
went qnly to ejlablifh the principle of in
demnification by guaranteeing it to the
fufferers, leaving the fund from which it
ihould he made, {in cafe Great Britain
should refufe to do us justice) to a future
£oaiidvtjLU<U<» that whether British debts
were letnieffered or not, he said the Unit
ed States were bound to fee that indemnity
was dudt'to the merchants whose proper
ty had been kidnapped in a secret clan
destine manner, while pursuing a law
ful trade under the authority of this go
vernment and the law of nations, or to
give them an opportunity of indemnifying
themfdves by making reprisals—that it
was well known there was great oppofitic-fi
to the feqiieftration of British debts, aid
it was very doubtful whether such a mea
sure would ever be adopted ; and if this
resolution was to be referred to the fame
committee and become connected with
that, he should very much despair of ever
getting any indemnification; that British
debts were a very precarious and uncertain
fund, and the idea of ever getting indem
nification from that source would operate
as a delusion, that if fequeltration under
any circumstances could be proper, it was
highly improper at this time when an en
voy extraordinary had just been dispatched
to Great Britain, and more so as we had
difcontinucd the embargo, which would
put all onr'remaining vefiels in the power
of that nation—he (hould therefore consi
der an agreemeent to the amendment as
amounting to a determination not to coiw
fider the l'ubjeft at lead for the present
feflion.
In support of the amendment it was
argued, that the two fubjefts had an inti
mate connection with each other, and ne
ver ought to be separated ; that Brjtifh
debts and British property, were the na
tural and only funds, for paying British
depredations, and if indemnity was not
given this way, it ought not to be given
at all; that as it was probable, the reso
lution fo> would lay dormant
for some time, it was belt to refer this to
the fame committee, that they might.ffeep
together-—the amendment was supported
by Messrs. Lyman, Dayton, Nicholas,
Smilie, Dearborn, Madison, Clark and
Giles.
Mr. Dextei against the amendment,
said, that very ftiong reasons existed both
for taking into confideraunn a proposition
for indemnity to the futferers, and also
against connsfting it with fequeflration or
any other fubjeft. Each ought to stand
or fall on its own merits. The fufferer's
were numerous and deserving citizens;
they had waited a long time, and had a
right to know before the close of the fefli
-110 what protection they were to expect
from the government of their own coun
try. Sequestration without a change of
political circumstances would never pass
both Houses of the Legislature ; to con
nect them then, would be to deny relief,
without even examining the principles on
which they claim it. He said British debts
had been called the only proper and natu
ral funds ; in his opinion they would be no
fund at all, even if fequeltration could be
adopted ; the debls would never be col
lected ; and not only so, but fequeflration
would be the beginning of hoflilities, and
wai must ensue; this at the fame moment
would pi event all hope of obtaining justice
from Britain, and also discharge our own
government from every obligation to in
demnify. Mr. D. said he would slate,
what in'his opinion was the proper and na
tural fund ; the money to be demanded of
Britain by our envoy extraordinary. Should
this fail, the government of America would
either pay the fufferers or grant them let
ters of marque and reprizal. This, he
said, is the conflant course of nations, and
this the fufferers have a right to demand
as a counterpart of their allegiance. Mr.
D. said it had been objected that the Bri
tish government would be encouraged by
it to refufe a recompence. This if true,
would be a serious objection, for he had
always viewed negociation as affording the
only probable chance for indemnity to'the
fufferers; if a recompence be refufed by
B. itain, war will be the consequence. The
objection however he thought would be
entirely removed by attending to the reso
lution itfelf. It is not he said a provision
or taking the debt on ourselves, but meet
ly to guarantee a recompence to the fuffer
ers ; the very word implies that the 20-
v* cf At - t ,-rt th* tr-w"'®!
f debtor, but is to tompel another to make
f iidemnity, ot- become the debtor- Mr.
D. closed with fa; ing that he had attend
? Ed only to the teafoning of the gentlemen
1 aid not to their personalities ;it was not
i his practice to leave the to impute
tj otheis, motives either corrnnt or pal
i try ;if they chose to glean iihaginary lau
t rds on this ground, he was not anxious to
i flare them; they could but judge whether
; in this way they were likely to encreafc
3 their reputation, or benefit the public.
MefTrs. Sedgwick, Ames, Murray,
Smith of South-Carolina, and Hillhouie,
also spoke against the amendment, and
said the merits of neither proposition were
now before the house, but only the mode
in which the fnbjeft should be considered
i —that they were in themfclves separate
and independent, and ought to have a se
parate and independent consideration—
i they were questions of very great nation
i al concern, and that blending them toge
ther would give an undue bias, and neither
would be fairly and impartially decided.
It was doubtful whether the resolution
; for sequestration ever ought to be adopt
■ ed, and that to conned the two fubjefts,
! would be to hang a mill (tone about the
necks of the fufferers—that as they were
j a numerous and very meritorious class of
i citizens, their claim merited a candid snd
• full examination, uuembarrafTed with any
other matter.
The Yeas and Nays were called on the
amendment, and were as follows: —
YEAS.
MefTrs. Bailey, Baldwin, Beatty,
Blount, Boudinot, Carnes, Christie, Clai
borne, Clark, Coles, Dawfon, Dayton,
Dearborn, Dent, Findley, Giles, Gillei
> pir, Gillon, Greenup, Gregg, Griffin,
Grove, Hancock, Heath, Heiiter, Hind
man, Hunter, Locke, Lyman, Macon,
Madison, M'Dowell, Meban*, Montgo
mery, Moore, Muhlenberg, Neville, New,
Nicholas, Niles, Orr, Page, Parker, Pick
ens, Pre (ton, Rutherford, Scott, Sher
burne, Smilie, I. Smith, Talbot, Cort
landt, Venable, Walker, Williams, Winn,
and Winfton. 57.
NAYS.
MefTrs. Ames, Armstrong, Bourne,
Cobb, Coffin, Coit, Dexter, Fitzfimons,
Foster, Gilbert, Gilmatf, Glen, Goodhue,
Gordon, Hiflhoufe, Latimer, Learned,
Lee, Malbone, Murray, Sedgwick, J.
Smith, W. Smith, Swift, Thatcher, Tra
cy, Trumbull, Allen, Gaafbeck, P.Wadf
worth, and Watts. 31.
The resolution was then referred to the
fame Committee to whom the resolution
for fequeftiating British debts was refer
red.
For the G jzette of the United States.
CONSIDERATIONS on EXCISE.
THAT the manufacturers of the United
States are unwilling to contribute their (hare
in the expences of government, and that
they reft perfectly content, let who-may,
kear that duty, so they are exempt, are
charges, which with a considerable lhare of
iiduitry, are endeavoured to be impi elled on
! the public mind.
To a class of citizens unconscious of a dif
polition inimical to the happinefsof society,
relying on their induury, ufefulnel's, and ir
reproachable conduct lor the approbation Of
their fellow men, no afpernon could have
been more injurious ; it is therefore in urn
bent upon.them to state some few faCts, from
which the unprejudiced will make the due
inference.
That the expences of government a-e to
b: defrayed is' moll true, and ehearfuhy
ought the citizens of this highly favoured
country to contribute each his apportiohate
lhare ; it ihould be considered as a free wi!l
oflcring rarher than an exaction ; it is a mu
tual participation in the expen es of' that so
ciety, by which we are protcifkd in our per
sons and property.
If the proportions of wealth is the just
criterion by which to rcgjlate the quota of
tax for each individual, and that it is, ap
pears confirmed by the popular opinion—
" that Luxuries Jhould be the mojl heavlfy r.f
fejjed, because the cpule/it are the consumers"
it could be easily diftinguilhed that the manu
facturer and they who (from their sank in
■wealth) are termed the middle class of citi
zens, have not only paid their fufficiency,but
greatly more —as a tenant, he must frequent
ly pays the tax on the realeftate of his land
lord, and as a citizen over and above his own
he participates in the taxes levied for the
protection of the delinquent personal proper
ty (however overgrown) of the wealthy ci
tizen.
Toalledge then that the manufacturer or
the industrious mechanic fliall pay, even yet
more than this excise to which he is now ac
cuHomed in order to preserve unfubfidized
that property which the power of wealth has
hitherto secured from afieflment even for its
~-r-'CVjon, is nothic?; lhort - ;c! -
1 ' '
j ration tliai .thoji (hall become the " b:vjjrs if
wood and drapers of water''. The cou
tenlpJafed tSx o'd manufactures, were it on-
If on accpAut of*nfre banditti of that kind of
exciferfxii hitherto unknown in America,
with the rigor of the laws nece.'iary to give
efficiency, and to qualify their infolenee, it
in itfelf the most execrable, and to the liber
ties oi freemen the molt dangerous.—ls ir
becaafe they poflefs more enterprise, are
more ingenious, or that they are lefe lirupu
lous of the sweat of their brow, that they
are to be fiugled out? are then their peculiar,
improvements, knowledge, or excellence,
the result, perhaps, of y< ars of a/fiduity and
research, to be of no longer value, and are
to be subjeCted to the moil common inspec
tion and exposure ? I hope not. But the a
pology (and experience proves it only an a
pology) is, that the coufumer arr.i _ not the
manufacturer will pay the duty j had this bean
well founded or the result of djie-enquiry, it
would have been some conlolation ; tluf it
is either I deny, and in confirmation take one
well tried, stern, and recent fadt, in prefe
rence to a volume of theory.
The iate excise on wines, &e. in the state
of Pennsylvania was Bd. per gallon, the fair
dealer paid the duty, and demanded a profit
ot io per cent, which included waiie, &c.
the falfe fweartr de uanded no fich profit,
the duty answered his purpose, the ultimate
proved that nfftead of a revenue to the state,
it became a bounty tor his perjury, mau°*re
all the watchfulnds which could be exerted
for its lupport. "Need Ito add that what lit- ,
tie duty the state received, was paid by the
| iuir trade, whole bufmefs in Confeqnence itc
camepf no value, while the abandoned cha» '
raCterflourilhtd on thfc bulk of the duty con
teinplated for the commonwealth.
The receipts into the Treafurv became
daily less, until at the formation of the fede
ral government notwithstanding the vigi
lance of a worthy office it became wh~n
compared with the expeCted amount a v-ry
pittance, but if viewed with refpedt to its
effect on foviety, dreadful.—Should I be-here
told that it was in confeqnence of the Inef
ficiency of the law , the hi'ilory of all revenue
fyltems in Europe will make the answer aril
prove that the utmoil deipotifm is unequal
to their maintenance.
One of the greeted securities which the
community have is, that when the Legisla
ture levy a tax, they in general alio tax
themselves ; but iu the instance of an excTe
on manufactures it is possible they may
-overwhelm, while themfeives fee! none of
the effect. Wealth begets gower, and po\ver
too oft leads to ufurpatjoii; to obviate these
imprefiions, protect the riling interests of dis
country, induce harmony <n society and good
W'U to its rulers is peculiarly the duty of the
reprelebtative of a free people, and hiseleva
tron to that h.'iior which his feliow
ciiizens can confer, will I trust, be a pledge
lor the faith'ul and exemplary maintenance
of the compact for support of just and equal
rights, forbearance in power, rejection of
felf interest, and an attachment to the prin
ciples of equal liberty, are the means by
which his rose to the highelt pinnacle of hu
man honor, and real dignity one of our fel
low citizens, and whose prudence and mag
nanimity receive apphufe even in the cabi
nets of Europe.
As flourifhes the state, fuffer then to flou-.
rtfh the manufactures and cherilh the arts,
chargeable only with an equitable (hare of
its burdens, and having arrived at just earn
ed wealth under the countenance of a good
administration, their participation in its ex
pences lhall bear its fulleft proportion, so
(hall the happiness of the community be
permanently fixed and the rulers of govern
ment receive th:ir higjieft reward in the ap
probation and attachment of a free people.
i ANTI PRCETBXTUS,
UNITED STATES.
COLUMBIA.
Proceedings of the Legislature of South
Carolina.
HOUSE of. REPRESENTATIVES.
May 3, 17^.
j Col. Anderfon (late chairman of the,
j committee, appointed 6n the second day
of Dec. 1793) with full powers to fend
for persons, papers and records, to exa
mine into, and ascertain the truth of a re
port, " that an armed force was levying
within this state, by persons under a fo
reign authority; without the permifiion,
and contrary to the express prohibition of
the government of the United States,"
informed ihe House, that himfelf and the
other members of that committee, had
been sued for their a&s done as members
of that committee (which they had sub
mitted to the House, and which the
House had thought proper to approve) by
Stephen Drayton, for a fuhi of 60,0c0
dollars ; and that their meflenger, Col.
Wade Hampton, had also been sued for
executing their warrants and orders ;
which luits have been brought by Alex
ander Moultrie, attorney at law.
Whereupon ordered, that the informa
tion of Colonel Anderfon be referred to
• -■> privileges and elections. '
'W > v Si. - ■ -- • 1 ' '
Major reported, from the j
con duce on pririleges and tie. «U», to ,
uhoin wis n.t«red a reprefen.ation ot ,
Colonel Arferfon, late cte»ma« ti,e_
appointed oft the dajof
Dumber 1793 ; which was read dud
as follows: , r
Report, that they Ha* taken the fame ,
into consideration, and find, that fho.tlj
after the adjournment of the egia 1111, ,
in Dec. last, anions were brought by t\-
Jexander Moultrie, at tJ* inftanee, and as
the attorney, of Stepten Drayton, against
Colonel Robert Anderfon, Henry .hi- !
am DefaufluK, John Rutledge, jun. 11-
mothy ford, John Drayton, James
Hunt and Gapfoiii Butler, a wmmittw,
appointed by this hjfeftfe, at the tail leffi
un, to examine into, and afeeita.n t.u
truth of a report, that an a.med force
was levying within thia thte, by perforis
under a foreign authority, without the
permission, and contrary to tne express
prohibition of the government ot tne
Raited, States, and of this ftatc.
That the laid Cuits were avowedly com
menced bv the said Alexander Moultrie,
against the laid committee, for what they
did as members of the fame. \ our com
mittee have, therefore, uiianimoufly come
to the following resolutions, which they
recommended Us be adopted by the house,
vi::.
Resolved, Fuji, that the freedom of
debate, and the liberty of ading "without
the external reftramt of fear or influence,
couftitutc the mail valuable privileges of
the Jegiflature ; and form the ftror.geft
palladium of the rights of jhe people.
Resolved, Secondly, that from the na
ture of the conthtution of this Hate, it is
eflential and inherent in the legislature,
that the members thereof, aiting in either
house, are not liable and cannot legally
be qnellioiied elfevvhere, for their conduit,
or the motives thereof.
Resolved, thirdly, that while each
house necessarily possesses the right of
cenluring or punishing improper conduit
in any of its members, it is equally the
province ti the house, to protect the mem
bers thereof from molestation from any
other person, or in any other place.
Resolved, Fourthly, that as the above
have always been the received and known
usage of the legislature of this country,
,any person, by proccfs of law, or other
wise, attempting to infringe or coimteraft
the fame, acts in open contempt and defl
ate of the rights, powers and privileges
\ti the legislature, and deserves the seve
rest anirnad vevfions therefore.
Resolved, fifthly, that Stephen Dray,
ton, for prosecuting the members of a
tommiitee of this house, for conduit in
the home; and Alexander Moultrie, for
having ailed as attorney in this behalf,
and lifting process of law, and causing
them to be arretted, have knowingly,
wilfully, and flagrantly violated the rights,
pawers and privileges of the house of re
presentatives.
Resolved, sixthly, thSt in the opinion of
this committee, any attorney, within this
state, commencing or prosecuting a suit,
against any member of this house, for any
thing said or done by him, as a member
(he the said attorney knowing the said
suit is forfomething fai<j or done as a mem
ber) is unworthy of his office, and ought
not to be fuffered to paaftice in any of the
courts of judicature under the authority
of this ttate.
Resolved, fryenthly, that the said Alex
ander Moultrie, and Stephen Drayton,
having knowingly, wilfully, and flagrant
ly violated the l ights and privileges of this
house, be immediately sent for by a spe
cial messenger and fourthwith brought to
attend this house.
The resolution being read it was resolv
ed, unanimously, that this house do con
cur with the committee on the said refo
littions.
On motion, resolved, that the firft fix
foregoing resolutions, be made out by the
clerk of this house, and served on the
judges of the superior courts of law and
equity of this Hate.
Ordered, that the resolution be publfh
ed in the fcveral gazettes of this ftatc.
NORFOLK, May 15.
On Tuesday last arrived in Chesapeake
Cay, tbe (hip St. Ann, Captain Juan Mathias
de Leredo, in 55 days from Cadiz. —Tll whom
came passenger, Capt. Cambe'l, of Philadel
phia, who brings the following iuterefting
intelligence.
That there was lying in Cadiz, twenty
two fail of the line, eight frigates, and two
sloop* of war belonging to the Spaniards.—
Four fail of the line and two frigates of this
timber, -were daily expected to fail as con-
! toy, for a fleet of merchantman for the rfa< J
! var.ua, And tlrf remaining number was not j
: half manned—'That there -was dead and sic k,
; i 3,000 at the Spanifla army» on tee frontiers
of France, with the plague.
Cadiz, March 18.
We the fubferibers commanders of Ame
rican vessels now in this port, and ready, ior
sea, having received intelligence that a Spa
nish fleet of 4 ships of the line and two iri
gates would tail from here.tor the Weft In
dies in a few days,, have thought proper to
make application to the commander of laid
fleet to take our vessels under his convoy ..rid j
afford us his protection ; we received for 1
answer that application (hculd be made by j
our Consul, and when told we had no |
fill here, his answer was that, we ought to j
' have, and a fleet to proteCt otirfelvts for he j
i could afford us bo protection: In confe- j
i-uence of w'hirh we are under the rifagree
able necefnty of declaring we intend to re
main here until we have a iiiificient convoy
granted lis, as there is now out on a cruise
17 fail of Algerine Corsairs, the leilt of which
II guns; betides a great number of brats
armed with swivels and mulkets, and each
boat carrying from 18 to 25 oien ; and fhoiild
we fill into their hands we have nothing to
expeCt but perpetual slavery, as, the Tyrant
of Algiers lias declared he wiil not raniom
an American on any terms whatever ; we
have intelligence daily from Algiers, and
learn that our countrymen there arc treated
in a crue land Clocking manner. Peace is
concluded on for 50 years between Portugal
and Algiers, and if we have not a Seet to
protect our trade we may expert the mod
serious consequences, as the Algerine Corsairs
have g«ne to the Northward, and nave de
clared they intend Lo pay a vif.t to the Ame
rican coast, in the Summer. They live al
ready fitted fbme of the American prizes
for c'ruifers, and are fitting more.
Cornelius Merchant, Hcifton,
James Pirrock, Philadelphia,
Wm. J. Flummer, Softutt,
Joseph Girdler, Ma'bh-head,
Daniel White, Rifion,
Edward Lewis, Marblehead,
Daniel Huhornt, Saiem,
Edw.rd Brock, Philadelphia,
William Burrow, Boston,
John Beckford. Salem,
William Younge, Baltimore.
' PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 26.
At a Meeting of the CAPTAINS and
MATES of vessels, held at Philadel
phia, at the tavern of Mr. Barnabas
M'S'iane, on Friday 2 3d May, I ygj., in
confequenc: of advertisements publilhtd
in the different newspapers of Philadel
phia, the following Refoives were una
nimously agreed to:—
RESOLVED, That the f bfcribers
will absolutely refnfe taking charge of any
vefiel, or leave this port for ten days from
this date.
Refolded, That the pilots be requested
not to take charge of any veiTc!, to carry
them down, for the fame space of time.
Resolved, In cafe any captain or mate
(hall be discharged by his owner, for an
adherence to these refoives, we do pledge
ourselves to each other that we will not ac
cept of any vacant birth ttiat may be oc
casioned thereby.
Resolved, That a committee be now
appointed to prepare a petition to Con
gress, requesting a renewal of the embar
go, to continue until such time as we can
pursue our business with fafety and feeure
from insult ; and that these refoives be
presented to all the captains and mates now
in port, to be signed by them ; he who
refufes his name shall be taken down, and
opposite to it fliall be wrote he refufes.
Resolved, That every captain now pre
sent (hall, to-morrow, hoist his colors, as
a signal of having agreed to these lefolu
tions ; by which means, the citizens at
. large will be able to discriminate between
the friends and enemies to the liberties of
America.
Resolved, That these refoives be pub
liflied, and that the committee do forward
copies of them to New-York, Baltimore,
and Wilmington, and request a concur
rence.
These refoives weie agreed to, and
signed by one hundred and four persons,
at the place of meeting.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, May 23. (
ExtraCt of a letter from St. Pierre, Martin
ique, May .1.
" All the American vessels, seized in this
port, were yesterday condemned in gross;
for haying aCfed contrary to the inflrs&ions
of the 6th Nov. and Bth of Jan. and having
been found here Supplying bad men in a bad
cai'/e, -and as en.mics to Great Britain."
| Capt. Stephens, arrived here yefterdav
in 26 dayS from Jamaica, was boarded off i
the I.ight-lloufe, cloifr 111 with Sandy j
Hook, yelleiday morning (23d M?.y) by
the Britifl) privateer schooner Fjying-Ftfti,
of 10 iron 4poiimiers,and 4 wooden guns,
Capt. M'Kirmey 5 from whom Capt. Ste
phens took a pilot. M'Kinney informed
Capt. Stephens that lie had eapuyed a
French privateer ichooner, 3 days out
from Charlelton, who fired a broad tide
into M'Kinney, and killed 5 of his men.
The above mentioned British privateer,
came in the Hook a few days iince to
wood and watev, during which time, (lie
kept the National flag of France flying Rt
her mail head ; M'Kinrtey, Commander
of this vellel, was born in the city of
New-York, fetved Jus apprsnticelhip to
the sea, out of this port ; and was in this
city two days ago.
PROVIDENCE, May 17.
Thursday la ft Capt. Perry, in a brig,
arrived here from Lisbon, after a palfage
of 45 days. The Captains Alger and
Sheldon, of this port failed with him,
under convoy of a PortUguese squadron.
Extract of a letter from the American Con
sul at Li/bort, to a mercantile house In
this town, dated Inarch 18—receivedty
Capt. Perry.
" I have tht pleasure to inform you,
that there is every reason to believe tl)at
hostilities will lo n be renenewed between
Purtvgal and Algiers, and th>t the Al
gerires .vill of ctmrle be flint up in their
ports again, and our navigation be o,iee
more free from those pirates, though not
fromfome others much more injurious to
our jeneral commerce. This court has
sent a £1 igate to Algiers, to inform the
Deythat they will not ratify the Truce,
and will never pay them any thing for
a P<ace, being able and determined to
(irotrft their own Tifade and Coast. But
at the fame time I hope the United States
will lend them some Aid, it being at least
a,; much for oilr Advantage as for that of
Portugal, that the Algcrines Ihould be
contned."
The following Algerine Cruizers were
out the 23d or March, vis. four Frigates,
of 44., 38, 32 and 28 guns; two Brigs,
of 22 and 24; fix Xebecs, of 22 each ;
one Polacte, of 14; one Schooner, of 12,
and tffo Suralls, of 6 and 4.
Capt, Perry informs, that the Algerine
Cruizfrs Were all in port when he failed,
the Rsmedan (orMahometan Lent) hav
ing ctjmmenced.
The ihip Betsey, Capt. William Page,
of thit port, arrived Yeilerday at New
port from the lie of France.
SALEM, Massachusetts.
AN AGREEABLE FACT.
Last evening, the schooner Polly, Samuel
IngerfoH, malter, arrived here r'rom Domi
niqje. She, -with other American vessels,
fell into the hands of the British, at Trinity
(Martinique) and was sent to Dominique
for " legal adjudication where, after be
ing libelled, and fuffering plunder, and inju
ry lo the vessel, file has been finally given up
(whether with or without trial we did not
unlerftand) with 19 other vessels and the r
catgoes in the like predicament. —We may
tiurefore hope, if the Bri'tifh have any fyf
tein of procedure, that those vessels which
fell into their hands at the other captured
French illands, will be alio released.—There
was a flying report at Dominique, not cre
dited, of our Embargo. Provisions were
very low, and feiling at vendue for almost
nothing.
From the St. *fames's Chronicle.
An effectual method to prevent Mice from
eating the grijn in flacks, or mows, or
ebeeit, or other articles usually injured by
these vermin.
Mr. Macdonald of Scalpo, in the He
brides having before fuffered considerably by
Mice, put three or four stalks, with the leaves
on, of wild mint, gathered in a field near a
brook, at the bottom, near the centre, atid at
the top of each Hack or mow, as it was
railed, and never after had any of his grain
consumed.—He then tried the lame experi
ment Ills eheefe, and other artcles usu
ally kept in llore, and often injured by mire,
with equal effect, by laying a few leaves,
green or dry, on the article to be preserved.
The experiment is easy to be tryed, and if
it proves generally effectual, is a valuable
preventative.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Schr. Phoebe, Smith, Martinique 24
Kitty, Reily, Norfolk
Frederickfburgh, Auderfon, Virg.
Eagle, Burden, do. 4
Nancy, Colli 11, do, do.
Stoop Abigail, , Portfrr.o'.uji 12
Three Fiifcnds, Bunker. Virg. 4.
Fame, Sinfey, Cinrleflon II
An AmerScair brig 13 arrived at tht
Fort, ivhich is said to be the twig -Mary,
Capt. Fleming of Philadelphia, from Si'.
Croix.
A feivVeltuls were {eirt cdhiing into the- !
Cap*6, names "unknown.
Cnptani Fkniihg iriforrr.s, that he pas-
Fed a brig to ChaHellon yelter
day in the Bay, rrame unknown. v 3
— f— — '
From CorKeipoijDsirtS.
The manufailory of Sugar in the Unit
ed States is called an infant m»nufa<Sure
by a great Sugar Baker in a certain houfej
but he tells us immediately after* that
more sugar is refined in the United States
than is neceiTary to supply the whole coun
try :
Contrail these exprsffions, " the manu
factory is yet in irs infaM Jlale" —with
these, even " annually make
a quantity mare than fujji ieni for the coa
fumption of tire United States"—a pretty
well-grown infant!
in 1 1 !■
Midwifery*
f)r. Price, Fellow of the Anti
quins i Society, and of J fur, Colic J,- in tt»6
Uhiverfity o Oxford, &c. &c. formerly lec
tu.ei on Midwifery in London, \V-iI com
mence ;■-arlv in the a compiet*
Course of Le&ures,
ON THE
i Theory & pra&ice of Midwifery
( With the latejl Improvemtn's)
Atrfl on tlie various DifeaCcs incident to Wo
nien and Oiiiditu; of which timely noiicc
will be given.
May 26 3t
NEW THEATRE.
Mr. Morris's Night.
THIS EVENING,
May 26.
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, never performed here,
called
She Wou'd and She Wou'd Not;
O R >
The Kind Impostor.
Don Manuel, Mr. Morris
Don Philip, Mr. Fennell
Don Lewis, Mr. Cleveland
OAavio, Mr. Green
Trappami, Mr. Chalmers
Soto, Mr. Bate*
Corrigidore, Mr. Warrell
Diego, Mr. De" Moulin
Vafquez, Mailer Warrell
Hypolita, Mrs. Marlhall
Rofara, Mrs, Morris
Flora, Mrs. Francis
Villetta, Mrs. Shaw
End of the Com dy, a new Comic Pastoral
Ballet, compol'ed by Mr. Francis, called
U Amour trouve les Moyens ;
Or, The
FRUITLESS PRECAUTION.
By Mons. Belona, (being his second appear
ance in America) Mr. Blifiett, Mr. Dar
ley jun. Master T. Warrell, Mr. Francis,
Mrs. De Marque, and Madame Gardie.
To which will be added,
(never performed in America, a COMIC
OPERA, in two a&s, called
THE PRIZE,
Or, 2. 5. 3. 8.
The Music by Signor Storace.
Doflor Lenitive, Mr. Harwood
Mr. Heartwell, Mr. Moreton
Mr. Caddy, Mr. Fincii
Label, Mr. Wignell
Hoy, Master T. Warrell
juba, Miss Broadhurft
Mrs. Caddy, Mrs. Row ton
Caroline, (with additionalfongs) Mrs.
Oldmixon
With the original overture and accompani
ments.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Morris, at Mr.
Berthauft's, Third, near Chefnut street—at
the usual places, and of Mr. Franklin, at
tbe Theatre, where places for the boxes may
be taken. . .
Mr. WHITLOCK's NIGHT on Wed
nesday the 28th.
A Tragedy, never performed in Ame
rica, called JULIA, or the Italian La
-1 ver*
With BON TON, or HIGH LIFE A
BOVE STAIRS.
Mr. MARSHALL'S Benefit will be oft
Friday.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requeued to
fend their servants to keep places, at half an
hour part 5 o'clock, and to order them to
withdraw, as loon as the company are seated
as they cannot on any account be permitted
to remain in the boxes, nor any places kept
after the firft ail.PV'id p'da. Ma'-cti, 11?94-
fUST PUBLISHED, «
B/ MATHEW CAREY, •
No. 11 f;, MdrLi Jlrkely
I; BrfMiisr.afW m- °P: A
SYST EYi OF ,
Modern Geography.: <
ot. I
Hljlorical, ana £
Commercial Grammar;
And present state of the levenal
NATIONS" OF THE WQ-RLD.
C«' N' TAIN It* C-y
1. Til* figures, iiiduori:, diftahces ot 1
tbe'rtjMet% the~ Newtonian sys
tem /nil tnefihft obtei vatious.
2. SV-general' view ol" the -earth, confiriered
as a placer; ufeful geographical
definitions jimi Vjrobleuns.
3 The gar 3 div ift mis <if the globe into
land and ware', continent* and iilards.
4. The fitutttibn and Extent ot empires,-
kinjsdouis, states, provinces and colonies.
j. Their climates,aai t foil, vegetables,
pr ■>d ions,.metals,, minerals, natural cu.ri
ofi'ieSjjteai, rivers, bays,capes, pi omontorieS,
aud lake;.
6. The birds' and be ast \ peculiar to each
countrv
7. Observations 011 the chatjges that ha,ve
been any where pbferved (ipon the f*<& ol na '
ture ftn'ce the~moft eatjy periods ot history.
8. Tha history iind oijgin of rtatjojis J theit
forms ol* government. religion, laws, reve
nues, taxes, naval and inilita y strength.
9. Tiii (jeniut, manners, caftonts, and ha
bits of the people
10-.Tbiir langi-.age,learning, arts,fpientes,
manufaft-jire -,-.1 ml commerce.
<1. The c'lief c tie.;, fl.uclures, ruins, and
artificial j
12. The longitude, latitud'e, bearings, and
distances ot'prinpipal pi.ices Inm Philadelphia.
Td'ti'/nch arc added.
1. A GF.rtGM fflujAi, Index, with the names
and places a!,>habetically arranged.
2. A Table ol trfe CpiMS of all nations, arid
their value in dollar's andcenfi.
3. A|JhhonologiCai. Table of l eiiiarksble
events, froj.ll .the cre.it ,n( to the prelert time.
By WILLIAM Gil TH HIE, K/j.
The Astronomical Part corrected by
D-. Kitten-house.
To Which .iay-j been added,
The lave Discoveries of Dr. Herschell,
and other tfrt'oent Astronomers.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrected, Improved, and greatly Enjarged.
The firlt volume contains twenty-one Maps -
and Charts, belides two Altrooomical Plates,
viz.
I. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world.
3. Europe. 4- Asia. J. Africa. 6. South
America- 7? Cook'*, d'fioveries. $• Coun
tries round the north Pole. 9. Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway. 10. Seven Unifed Pro
vinces. 11 Austrian, French and DuUhNe,.
therlands. 12. Germany. 13' Seat of war
in France. I*4. France divided intorfepait
meats. 15- Switzerland. •.(>. IHly,' Sicily;
and Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
18. Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 23 Weft-Indies. 2i. Vermont. 22. Ar
miliary sphere. 23, Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
the press, will be given the following Maps:
1. Ruflia in Europe and Asia.
2.; Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
j. China.
6. Hindoftan.
7. United States.
8. British. America.
g. Siate of New-Hampshire.
,o. State of Maflacbufetts.
11. State of Connecticut.
j2. State of Rhode Illand.
,3- State of New-York,
,4. State o( New-Jersey.
,j. State of Penofylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
20 State of N"rth-Carolina. .
21. TennelTee Govt rnment.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia.
TtRMS.
t. This work will be compriled in two. vo
-1 umes.
J. Subicribers pay for the present volume on
deli,very, fix. dollars, and the-price of b nd
ing, (56 cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the fucteeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
tet dollar c-ach, or else, when finilhed, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The fubfeription will be raised on the firft
day of June 1794, to fourteen dollars, ex
cluhve of binding.
5. Should any copies remain for faje after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the pricc of binding.
6. The names of the fubferibers will be pub
lished as patrons of American literature
.. arts,and fciencej.
It is wholly unneceflary to expatiate on the
•dvantage.to American readers, that rhtsedi.
tion pofleires, over every imported edition of
any system of Geography extant. The arldit
Hon of maps of the feveralflate , procured a
a very great expense, and'from the bell ma
terials that are attaiuable, (peaks such full
conviction on this fuhje«, that it would be
diftefpeft to the reader's underftand.ng to
suppose it requisite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
fim.lar work have such maps beenever i o t»-
vttced.
. 'ti N !
*.* * .
f . «•- «>••- / " v. "• ' . -T~ •-■
r■."' . i- . •
J.? '.? . '
j The Public are cautioned to
I htsware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of ■
the Bank of. the United States, and Ttuehty
Dollar Bills of the Bank as North America,
fe-veral of ■■which have appeared in circulation
<witbin a few. days pajl; they- are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be difiingui/hed by tlx following
MARKS.
rinje Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
i - United Slates.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their niphabetical Mark.
Tiie Texture of the Paper is thicker. and
* winter and it takes the ink-more freely
tlie genuine -paper.
The O. m the word Company is fmaiJei;**
than the M. and other letters ofthat wort.], '
so that a line extended from the top of the Q,
to touch the top of the M. would extend con-,
fiderably above the range of the whol*? word.
l/i the word United the letters .ire nariow
erandcloler together than the rei\ o( the bi'll
The i and fin the word promise are not
parallel, the much more forward
than the j.
The engraving is badly executed,the fttokes
of all the Letters are lironger and the devi< e
in the margin particularly is much coarser and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
et the counterfeits bear date in 1791—Where
' as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were ifTued in
jhat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B ior their alphabetical mark.
They are printed 011 a paper nearly similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
'above defcribedv the engraving is beitet exe
ucted* and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the body Of Ihe bill, arc in number thir
teen in the genuine b lis, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The woi-d Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills defer ibed a
bove, the 0 being Jess than the to, and others
following.
There is rio stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the itroke is weli
defined.
The letters tnt in the word Twenty 9 to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are l*o cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and *.hey go
ing below them.
The Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamb-black and
0.1, and di tiers from other inks used in
printing the bills and the calhiet's signature.
i It is luppofed these forgeries were committed
in some of the Southern States, all the coun
ter feus thai have appeared, have come from
thence, t»nd tfco perious have been apprehend
ed in Virginia, on lufpicion of being the author
of them.
The Reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Perlon or Perlons who ihall
difcovei and profecuie to con vision the ieveial
, offenders of ihe following delciiptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufa&ured
the paper on which the Bills are printed.
The per<ou or peifons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
tvery person who has a&ed as a principal in
r) any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bilis.
' Philadelphia, March 28, 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
d of the Bank of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
r The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
a ter B.
■ They may be distinguished fronj the genu
ine by the following MARKS f
The paper of the counterfeits is of 2c more
tender texture and glofley furface than the
genuine, and there is no water mark in them.
Tiae letter C. in the word Cashier, in the
true bills is strongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
stroke, evidently in an uofinifhed slate. The
letter a in the word demand, is badly formed
and the whole word ill done, is no
comma at the ehd of it, as there is in the
* genuine bills.
The marginal device, is mwch daiker in
3 the falfe, than in the genuine bills owing to
j the shade strokes being coarser, much nearer
together, and consequently much more nu
merous. This difference ft 1 ikes the eye at firft
view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will be paid for apprehending, iz
, prolecuting to convi&ion the several abvve
described Offenders in refpe& tp this, as to
the last described bills.
THOMAS WILLING, President
of the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, PrciidcnjL of the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of th'c Ref
-1 pr&ivc Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
I TN an eligible fituntion, —also a Country Seat
1 within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
' House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
' oi th? city, in size, or convenience.
> for particulars apply to the.pnnter.
' m&t^f
Beef, Pork, and Butter.
BEEF, pi me and cargo of good quality
prime and cargo.or do.
BURLING lON FORK
BUrTjyi, in firkins
ALSO, •
A CARGO OF
MAHOG A N T,
■ Landing at John Weft's Lumber Yar«., near
Pool's Brido f from on board the Fail Aineri
can, fiom the Bay of Honduras, and
3000 bufhe'ls of Good Wheat,
for sale by
JOHN SKYRfN,
Ao. 35, No. Water Street,
Just Published,
A one handsome volume, umo. Price 5s
And for saj-e by
JOHN ORMROD,
Jt l ' r a»k!in's Head, No. 41,
Are?/,
an essay on the
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result i'rbm it, and on the
lJhties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
X m n Society at Haarlem! >
R wtti, rr '® ed a "A Enlarged. . .
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
P'ofeffor of Mora: p;,^ ro p hy _ and (he Law
oi Nature, ai)c | o( - Ecclefis!ti la ] Hiftm v •
trecht!" m " 0f "' e '' u ... ijl
The Firjl American Edjliol!*"'
npHEgrand principle 01 Equal.;,,-, right
. '. v onddrfti/od, is the only bafts on which
timverfal jultice, lac-red order, and perfect
ireedom, can be firmly built, and pe(*iiaiicut
ly secured. The view of it exhibited in this
efTay, at the fame time thai it reprcllcs the
infflepce oi' office, the tyra. i;y ol'pnde, and
the outrages of oppreflinn ; confirms, i,i the
moil forcible mam cr, the ucctjfity cf fubor
dillation, and the jolt demands of lawful an
thority. So far indeed, fiom loolei.ir.p the
bands of foc-iety, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and civil diftinttion,
draws more clo ejy every loc;al rie, unites in
one harmonious and j ulllv proportioned lyf
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, ot reciprocal obit atioi;, and of acom
mr>n relation to the community.
March tots
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representatives,
D EC *. Mi. fc K 21 it, I>7 93"
WHEREAS the Commillioncrs of public
Accounts, h.-ve.reported, ihat they can
not proceed to the in eflt of the Tveafury
Accounts, relpr&ing fptcml Indents, without
kt owing the outilandmg amount thereof in cir
culation 'Therefore,
Refo/ved, That all holders of fpeciat Indents
be -dirt £ted,' and require n, on or before the ftrfl
day of Nov. mber n xt,to deliver fhc fp.'cial In
dents in their poffeflion to one or other of the
Cofmmiflioners of the Tn afury, who p-re to give
recei-ais for the fme, and to report totbeCom
mi/Tiorieri on pubhc.accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amuunt by
them lelpe&ively received, and also to the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next.
and that all fpeciaj Indents not rrhdered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the fir ft day
of November next, /hall be, and the fame aie
heiehy barred.
Rejoived, Th*t public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the fiiftdayof
November next. And that the Deligatesotthis
S:a'e in the Congress of the United S ate?, be re
queftcd to eatifc this resolution to be published ,
ih one or "more paper# in the cities of Pnn'adel.
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for ths expences attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the refolut-ion be sent to the
•Senate for theii concurrence..
By order of ts\e Hftnfc,
JOHN DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
December m ft ,1793.
Rejbfved, That this House do concur wjth the
Hpufe of Representatives -in the foregoing iefo
luiions.
Ordered, That the resolutions be sent to the
House ot Representatives.
by order'of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov» f
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16. Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to, confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, bfgs leave'toof
for his Cervices to his friends and others, in the
line ol a Stock Broker. Thofc who may please
t9 favor h?m with their bufrnefs, may drprnd
upon having »t tranfa£led with the urmoft ftde»
lay ar.d dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, BoAotr, or any
other part of the United States, will be ftriftly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER. -
m&thtf
PHILADELPHIA:
pR-tNTED BY JOHN FENNO, No
South Fourth-Street. (
* . *V 1 « * X '-~