£ y E N I N G A D Y E R T I S E R.
[No. 141 of Vol. V.] Tuesday, May 27, 1794. [Whole No. 557.]
remaining
OF THE
Ship India's Cargo,
FROM
2? JE. N G A L>
A small afiortment of
BALE GOODS,
250 bags COTTON of good quality, which
would probably make an excellent remit
tance to Europe, and a
Quantity of i J E 1-" PEK
For Sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Who has also to dispose of
Barcelo ;a Hind fs. 111 boxes,
Holland Gin »n cases,
Souchong, Hyson, and Tonkay Tea,
Aqua t tyuf Bnmitone, &c.
May iQ dgw
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY and FRENCH
BURR STONES,
FOR. SALE BY
Gurney and Smith.
May 14. d
JAMAICA RUM,
LANDING at Hamilton's wharf, above
the Drawbridge, out of the ship Bacchus
Cept. Vanneman, from Jamaica,
FOR SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT.
May 16. d
~~ " FOR SALE, ~
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Mai ket-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery,
Designed to exhibit in a new point of view
its effe&s on morals, induflry, arfd the peace of
society. Stmie fa&s and calculations are offered
to prove the labor o\ freemen to be much more
productive than that ol slaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
4' Übm'ffifr pt-Uf'lw -iirjuy rf thtii XT^TT
labor; and hence the n< ctffai y conclusion, that
slavery is impolitic as well as unjuji.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February 15.
Congress of the United States,
In Senate, Tuefaay May 13th, 1794.
ORDERED, that Rufus Putnam, Manat
fah Cutler, Robert Oliver and Griffin
Green, do, upon the third Monday of Decem
ber next, (hew cause to the Senate, why so
much of the grants of land to them the laid
Rufus Putnam, ManaflTah Cutler, Robert
Oliver and Griffin Green, pursuant to an Ast
entitled 44 An ast authorizing the grant and
conveyance of certain laifds to the Ohio Com
pany of alfociates," ihall not be declared
void, as may interfere with and be fufficient
to fatisfy the claims of the French settlers
at Galliopolis.
Ordered, that the delivery of a copy of
the above order to Rufus Putnam, Manaffah
Cutler, Rooert Oliver, or Griffin L«reen, and
the publication of the fame, one month, in
one of the Gazettes printed in 'his City, lhall
be deemed ftiffuienl notice thereof.
Extra# from the Journals of Senate.
Attest,
SAM. A. OTIS, secretary.
May 14. xm.
Just Imported,
In thejhip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peter/burgh in RuJJia, and now landing at
RuffeW s wharf,
HEMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
ravens duck,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And [or sale at the (loreiof the fubfcribei in
Walnut street, N«. 22.
'John Donnaldfon.
April 4. diww&stt
ADVERTISEMENT.
OF the money robbed from the mail near
Baltimoic, by Doctor Gant, ITo dollars were
afterwards sent by an unknown hand, to the
Poltmafter at Baltimore, who transmitted
the fame to the General Post Office. The fuf
ferers by that robbery are desired to ftatc the
amount of their lolTes reflectively, and trans
mit the fame, with the originalletters of their
correspondents f where recovered) or other
evidence thereof to the General Post Office
beture the firft day of June next, immediate'
ly after which adividend will be made among
the claimants.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
_ Pojl Majler General.
Gen. Post Office, April 4, i l9i iaw 6w
For Sale or Charter,
"4||y|s|jpr Burthen 1000 barrels.
XTTuunch Utt failing new veflVl,well
found, and ready for any voyage, either to
Europe, or Weft Todies. For terms ap
ply 10
DEBLOIS W BRECK.
At their store, between Walnut and Cnelnut
street wharves.
May 23 d
St. Croix,
INDUSTRY,
i_iLOYd Wharton, Malter.
SHE is intended to fail with the firft veffeis
and can accommodate a few paflengers very
well. For terms apply to the Captain, or
WHARTON & GREEVES.
May 19. cKt •
For Sale or Charter,
i/SBj^ANDRQMACHE^
(An American bottom)
John Moore, Majler.
IS a itout good velTel, about two years old,
burthen 232 tans, has only made three v<>y
ages, and may be lent to sea at a small ex
pence. She friay be seen at Vine-flreet wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
March 2i. drf
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglhcads and in cafcs of 50 bottles each.
also, I
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogiheads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111, South Front itreet.
Jan. 2, 1794. dtt
Morris .Academy,
THIS inltiiuuon is now >.peu fir i e <ec?p
tion of (indent. unde> the immediate care cf
Mr. CaleS RulTell, whole abilities as an hi
llructor, and attachment to tlie bullnefs have
long been known and approved. He lias Ui!
der Unn the belt alliitants 111 the ditfere 't
branches—The scholars arc t.iught the E:'-
glilh, Freftch, La 1 in, a:.d Gnek language,
Public-Speaking, Writing, Amhinetic, Geo
graphy, Astronomy, and the various branch
es of the Mathematics The licalihy fitua
tion oi this place is fu h as to recommend 1.
to those, wha wifli to have their ch,.dteu i.
the country. Boairiing, waffling, mend ng,
&c. will be provided in good families, ai.d
the morals of the scholars carefully attended
10.
The price including tuition, firewood, &c.
eexclufive of the French language) will not
xceed thirty pounds proclamation money pei
annum) an addition of three dollars per quar
ter will be ma<le to such scholars who are
teught the French language. The Dirc&ois
ai edelermined to pay such attention to this
inftitutlon, as will render it refpeftable and
ufeful. • -
GABRIEL H. FORD, ~)
TIMOTHY JOHNS, jun. C Direft's.
NATHAN FORD, 5
Morriitown, May ij, 1794
dtw.—W2m.
MADEIRA, "
SHERRY,
PORT, WINES of the firft quality
LISBON, & '
TENERIFFE
Old Jamaica Spirit, Antigua and Weft India
Rum.
Coniac, French and Peach Brandies
Claret and Port Wine of afuperior quality
in cases.
Win: Cyder and Vinegar, in pipes and hhds.
Corks in Bales, Havannah Segars in Boxes.
Philadelphia Porter, in Cases and Bottles.
London do. in do. do.
Philadelphia Ale and Beer in do. do.
London do. in do. do. and
Cyder :n barrels and bottles, preparedfor ex
portation or immediate life,
FOR SALE BY
Benjamin W- Moris,
The corner of Dock and Pear streets,
Were he has provided suitable ltores and
vaults, for the reception of
WINES, &c.
Which he proposes to store or dispose of 011
com mi (lion
Captainsof vessels and others fupplicdwith
any ot the aboveLIQUORS bottled, and lea
stores in gene alput up.
Ma y 9 tu&fzm
JUST PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOBSON,
Acckfelkr, at the Stone House in SecondJlreet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA,
OR A
Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, aud MtfceU
laneous Literature,
ON a plan entirely new ; by which the dif
ferent faiences and arts are digested into the
farm of diilinft treatises or fyltems. This
voiume co tains the articles, meda':s, medi
cine, metallurgy, metaphysics, methodilts,
M-xiC", mici oicope, midwifiy, and a great
variety of biographical and miscellaneous ar
;icles, illulliated with nineteen copperplates.
(£3* The tables of logarithms, &c. which
were deficient in the tenth volume, are sub
joined to this.
E t veil volumes of this work are now pub
lifljed, and the Xllth is in some forwardness.
On the fir ft of September, 1792, the price
-,f iubfeription was incrtafed TEN dollars on
all lei ts not taken before that time. The I'ub-
isftill open on these lerms, and it
any copies remain by the firft of July next, the
price will be raised TEN dollars more, on
any copies which may be fubferibed for after
that period.
* # * As many of the fubferibers have taken
only two, three or four, &c. volumes, they are
earneftiy requested to take up and pay for the j
remaining volumes, as it becomes difficult to j
complete the setts, and the publillier does not
hold himfelf bouud to make up any setts after
the firft day of J uly next.
Apil 22. m&rtV6w.
Diftri&of Pennsylvania
t 0 IV I T:
. BE it remembered, that on the
twenty fourth day of March, in
the eighteenth year of the independence of the
U .ited States of America, Ebenezhi Hazard
of the laid diftrift, liasdepofitcd in this office,
J the title of a book, the right whereof he claims
j.-, author, in the words following, to wit :
44 Historical Colle&ions ; consisting ot Itate
nvhar n.»ho.,riAihiriiiftents ; in
tended as materials for an history ot the U
nited States of America.
By EBENEZEII HAZARD, A.M.
Member of tlie American philofophicai So
ciety, held at Philadelphia, for promoting
u efui knowledge; Fellow of the American
of Arts and Sciences; and corref
pendent memoer of the MalTachiifetts Hifto
-1 ical Society.
VOLUME 11.
Ingenium, Pietas, Artes, ac bcllica virtus,
Hue profugae venient, et Regna illuftria
condent,
Et Domina hie Virtus erit, et Fortuna mi
niftra.''
In conformity to the a6t of the Congress of
the United States, entitled 4t An ast for the
eucoui agement of learning, by securing the
copies of maps, charts and books, to the au
thors and propiietors of such copies, during
tne times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Di/lritl of Pennsylvania.
May 7 ew4w
JUST PUBLISHED,
MATHEW Y CAREY,
118, Market Jlreet,
Price 18 cents,
THE
Catechism of Man ;
Pointing out from found principles, and ac
knowledged facts the Rights and Duties of
every Rational Being.
Am I therefore become your enemy because I
tell you the truth ? Gal. iv. 16
Now all these things happened unto them for
examples, and they are written for our
admonition, upon whom the ends of the
earth are come. i Cor. xii.
May 10 tuth&rs2w
To the Eledtors of the city and
county of Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
THiS being the last year of the present
Sheriff's time in office. I take the liber
ty to offer mvfelf a Candidate, and solicit
vour votes and interests in my favor, to place
me on the return at the next general Ele&ion,
as his successor for said office ; in doing which,
you will confer an obligation that' will be
gratefully remembered, by
Your most obedient,
and humble servant,
JOHN BAKER.
May 3. estf.
Midwifery.
Dr. Price, Fellow of the Anti
quartan Society, nd of Jjfus College in the
Univerlity of Oxford, &c. &c. formerly lec
tuier 011 Midwifery in London, will com
mence early in ihe Autnmi , a complete
Course of Lectures,
ON The
Theory & pra&ice of Midwifery
( With the latefl Improvements)
And 00 the various Diseases incident to Wo
men and Children ; of which timely notice
will be given.
May v 26
Congress of the Utiited States.
IN SENATE,
Thursday, May 15.
A mefTage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk :
"Mr. President—The House of Re
presentatives agree to the amendments of
the Senate to the bill, entitled, " an act.
providing for the payment of certain ex.
pences incurred by Fulwar Skipwith on
public accountalfo to the amendments
of the Senate to the bill, entitled, " An
| ast for erecting a light-house on the Iffand
of Seguin, in the Diftrift of Maine"—
And he withdrew.
Mr. Foster reported from the commit
tee on enrolled bills, the bill, entitled,
" An ast providing for the payment of
certain expences incurred by Fuiwar Skip
with on public account." the bill, enti
tled, " An ast for erecting a light-house
on the island of Seguin, in the Diilrift of
Maine, and for erecting a beacon and pla
cing three buoys at the entrance of St. Ma
ry's river in the state of Georgia also
the bill entitled, " An ast further to au
thorise the adjournment of circuit courts,"
-and that they were duly enrolled.
The bill sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
"An ast for the relief of Reuben Smith
and Nathan Strong," was read the third
time.
Fefolved, That this bill ptfs.
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the House of Representatives with the
concurrence of the Senate in this bill.
Mr. Ellfworth from the committee to
whom was referred certain resolutions
moved for the 15th of April last by the
Senators of Kentucky, relating to the.na
vigation of the Miffiiipi, and thenegocia
tion at the court of Spain, reported—
" That in the negotiation now car y- >
ing on at Madrid between the Unj ed
States and Spain, the right of the former
to the free navigation of the Miififfippi,
is well asserted and demonstrated, and
their claim to its enjoyment is pnrfued
with all the assiduity and firm iefs which
the magnitude of the fubjeft demands;
and will doubtless continue to be so pur
sued, until the object (hall be obtained, or
advene ci.cumftances (hall render the fur
ther progress of the negociation impr.ft -
cable. That in the present state of the
business it would be improper for Con
gress to interfere—Bjit in order to fatisfy
the Citizens of the United States, more
immediately interelted in the evnt of this
negociation, that the United States have
uniformly asserted their right to the free
use of the-navigation of the river Miflif
fippi, and have employed, and will conti
nue to pursue such measures as are bed
adapted to obtain the enjoyment of this
important territorial right. The com
mittee recommend that it be Resolved
by the Senate.
" That the President of the United
States be and he hereby is requested to
cause to be communicated to the Execu
tive of the State of Kentucky such part
of the existing negociation between the
United States and Spain, relative to this
fubjeft as he may deem advisable anil
confident witli the course of negotia
tions."
And the report was adopted.
Ordered, That the Secretary lay a co./<
py of thi* ptoanlmg before the Prtfi
dent of the United States.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
to-morrow morniug.
Friday, Way 16th, 1794- 7
Mr. Foiier reported from die commit
tee on enrolled bilk, that they had exam
ined the bill, entitled, " Ao a& for the
relief of Reuben Smith, and Nathan
Strong," and that it was duly enrolled.
A message ft urn the House of Re
presentatives by Mr. Beckley their Clerk :
" Mr. Ptefiilent—The Houle < f Re
presentatives have appointed a committee
to join fych committee as the Senate (hall
appoint, to report what bulineis is iie
i cfiary to i>e done before the c!o<e of the
feflion, and when it (hall be proper to
end the present feflion ; and request the
appointment of a committee on the part
of the Senate.
" They have palfcd a bill, entitled,
*' An adt making provilion for the pay
ment of the interest on the balances due
to certain States, upon a final fctllement
of the accounts between the United States
and the individual States," in which they
i'efire the concurrence of the Senate.
" Tlie Speaker of the House of Re
presentatives having figncd sundry enrol
led bills, 1 am diietled to bring them to
the Senate for the signature of the Vice
President." And he withdrew.
The b'.ll lr.it brought from the House
of Representatives for concurrence was
read the firil time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the
second reading.
The Senate proceeded to the conside
ration of the rcfolution last sent from the
House of Reprelentatives, for the ap
pointment of a joint committee, and
Resolved, That they do concur there
in, and that Mr. King, Mr. Ellfworth,
and Mr. Hawkns, be the committee on
the part of the Senate.
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the House of Repiefestatives therewith.
The Vice-President (igned the follow
ing enrolled bills, to wit, the bill, enti
tled, An act providing for the pay
ment yt certain expenses incurred by
tulwar Skipwith, on public account."
Hie bill, entitled, " An ast further to
authorize the adjournment of Circuit
Courts." The bill, entitled, "An ad
for eredting a liglit-houfe on the island of
Seguin, in the Diftri& of Maine ; and
for erecting a beacon and placing three
, buoys at the entrance of St. Mai y's li
ver in the Stare of Georgia." And the
bill entitled, " An ad for the relief of
Reuben Smith and Nathan Strong," and
they were delivered to the committee on
enroll ecs bills to belaid before the Presi
dent of the United States.
The petition of Moses Brown and o
thers, merchants of the State of Mafla
chufetts, praying that further time may
be allowed than the law provides, to ena
ble them to recover the drawback on cer
tain foreign goods intended for exporta
tion, for reasons dated in the petition.
Oideied, That this petition, together
with the petition of Oliver and Thomp
foii and others, merchants of the State
of Maryland, on a fimifor fubjrft, be re
ferred to Mr. Cabot, Mr. Ellfworth, and
Mr. Hawkins to consider and report
thereon to the Senate.
On motion,
O; clered, That Mr. Langdon have
leave of absence after Monday next.
The Senate adjourned until Monday
morning at 11 'oclock.
From the Maxtiand Journal, &c.
CONVERSATIONS— No. 111.
™ S - h ' ntinued Agathon, as we
entered the Lyceum, will appear more vift
ble in times of imminent danger. If there
fliould e*ft a F art y in the republic, who
I S overnmcnt ' or an ambi
thev wilM n ' r a " n f :he a dministration,
a I ant tl r eonjundlures, to
adapt their measures to the current passions
■ the people, in order to reduce those who
are cnarged with the care of the public wel
fare, to the disagreeable dilemma of oppo-
t S fl\ P T iar err ° r ' or ihe fafety of
the state, by yielding to it. "
we sownH d T ° W reac s e l the M hall, where
we tound Jimon and Zenocrate;, ene-aeed
in a very animated discussion. and furrE
ed by a very numerous crowd, who seemed
tohften with uncommon attention.
y i° U W3nt reven S e ? exclaimed Timon •
trust only to your paflions; who ever though?
o, revenging mfults in cold blood ? Phflfo
r r °j- C JOU lmmen (e wrongs, Why think
oe of hi, V ! • bct,er to ftLce l; p°" !
h raid ast .r ; P ' • W -" S an J i
a-rald afterwards to miorm him upon m Jut 1
terms you tra! reftwr it. He has violated
your rights, why nal violate his ?
Good Heavens! laid Zeuocrates, when
has it become a rule hi politics, to decide up
on the mterelis of a Hate during thole violent
movements of the foul which pervert the
judgment, and change, in the fight of the
molt confederate, the true afpeA of things
To enable a people to determine wifely,
ought we to excite their passions, or render
them tranquil! Surely it is one iliing to ob
tain justice, and another thing to revenge an
insult. If, Athenians, you are of opinion
that war ought to be made upon Philip, on
account of the inftilt, it is very well; but if
your obje«sl is only to obtain juitice for the
wrong Philip has done you, would it not be
prudent to put yourselves in a condition to
keep the town before you rcfolve upon seiz
ing it ? Timon telis you that Philip will ne
ver actempt to recover it, should you take
it; but how can Timon know 1 what Philip
inttnds ? Philip has committed a flagrant
violation of your rights, and Timon advises
you to become as criminal as Philip. I lhould
like better, O Athenians, to fee you conform
to the culloms of wife nations, the obliga
tions imposed upon you by justice, the dut ; es
of humanity, and the interests of the repub
lic. Call upon Philip to repair the wrong
he has done you, and as the town cannot be
removed, prepare to seize it with a Jiifficient
force, lhould justice be refufed, By this up
right proceeding you will be applauded by
mankind, and favoured by the Gods, who
abhor injustice and violence.
At a little distance flood Menilleus, ex
plaining and recommending to the Athenians
a new lyftem of commerce.
Menilleus always discovers ingenuity, said
Agathon; but his genius inclines him too
much to abilra<slions, or, as Crito exprefles
it, the occult qualities and eflential forms of
politics. I lis present proposal is not h s least
chimerical, and reminds me •of the project
of Epimac'hus, who believed that he could
change the position of the world by the pow
er ot mechanics : In like manner, Menilleus
thinks th::t he can transfer manufactures and
wealth from one country to another by a
fifcal operation, or resolve of the people of
Athens. It is to this turn of mind we ought
to afcr:bc his delight in metaphysical proba
bilities, above practical demonftt ations ; and
to the tincfture he has received from the vi
rions of his mailer, tliofe beautiful fyllems
so incompatible with experience and irredu
cible to prats ice. If from a rhetorican, Me
nilleus lhould ever happen to become a feha
tor, do you think that he could persuade the
Athenians, that it was good for them to de
molilh their fortifications, to be without gal- (
lies, to abidge their trade, and refill the in
troduction o' thole eftablilhments which have
increased the riches of other countries, and
assisted their governments with loans, in their 1
wars and emergencies ? These are among 1
the nl nii ii'.-rentier the Arhc i
nians more happy. The race of refiners, i
continued Agathon, have of % late greatly ]
multiplied; but, owing to the flourilhing
Hate of indullry, and easy circumstances in
which moll of the people find themselves,
their harrangues have as yet attracted few ]
pupils, save among the revolutionills, the '
discontented, and ambitious. |
I perceive Agathon, said Lyfander, 1
that you allow the refiners no merit for
their everlasting endeavors to please the I
people. I lhould be very far from cenfur- i
lug them, replied Agathon, for attempts t
of this nature, were they, instead of low t
and contemptible means, to employ only r
against those they abuse, superior virtue, c
knowledge, and genius. Are you sure,
Agathon, that the people would always
decide in favor of the latter, or that su
perior virtue, knowledge, and genius,
would invariably obtain their fuffrages > I
am sure, Lyfander, that no counterfeit
com can long continue to circulate, with
out losing the gilding that concealed its
baseness.
The fun had nearly arrived at the gold
en doors of the weft, and the throng and
the difputers were fall leaving the Lyce
um. Let us feat ourselves for a moment
on this vacant bench, said Lyfander, and
beg Agathon to indulge us with the con
clusion of the remarks, which our en
trance here has suspended. You forget,
laid Agathon, that we are to sup w ith
Anarchus, and that it is time to put our
selves in motion, if we would avoid being
the la(l of his gnefts- As to what I
have to fay, it can as well be talked over
| dunng our walk thither, and will serve to
| give a greater relilh to the animated fai
lles we may expert to have from the firft
wits of Athens we are to meet at supper.
• Ihe accounts received yesterday, from
a neighboring republic, contain the sum
mary a„ de ff en f
R [ a, f °" the f "¥ct of our investigation.
Behold that republic, continued Agathon
so justly celebrated for the consummate
dillnbut.on of its powers, prostate and
..ruins by the usurpations of the people.
Its fundamental ordinances vested in an as
sembly the right of making law ß , aild in
fe P V ds£ ; , i httoap p°i"t its mem.
* " afS^ned to the people freedom
of opinion, and the right to state to the
a (Terribly their opinions and grievances ;
and to the assembly freedom of debate and
the iihcontrouled excrcife of their judg
ment. Some of the rhetoricians held,
th it freedom of opinion meant fretdomof
abuse, and the right of the people to
state their opinions a right to dictate and
control. In time, the people believed the
new do&rine, and put themselves under
the banners of the rhetoricians. The fun
damental ordiance, veiled in a feledt body,
chosen by the people, the sole right to
make treaties ; the rhetoricians contended
that a different body might prescribe the
conditions. In time, the people believed
this too, and celebrated the difcOvey by
public rejoicings. The fundamental ordi
nance? defined the court in which, and
the persons by whom, the thief magistrate
might be impeached : The rhetoricians
said he might be impeached by clubs. If
the republic was threatened with war, the
rhetoricians declared againlt navies, and
armies, and taxes, as dangerous to liber
ty. Did the preservation of peace com
poit better with the welfare of the repub
lic, they urged the necefTity of meafure-s
calculated to prevent accommodation. If
the fitted man in the republic was appoint
ed ambassador on fiich an occasion, the
rhetoricicns invieghed bitterly against
fending any, and called upon the clubs for
their opinion. The rhetoricians held that
a proiperous state of the republic,- by ren
dering the people content, was the sure
forerunner as tyranny. To demolish this
■barrier against their power, it was necef
lary to render the mcafures which had
been inrtaumental to this prosperity, and
upon which much of it depended, odious
and detested. This was attempted by
falfehoods incefiantly repeated, and ascrib
ing the most mischievous intentions to the
most virtuous citizens. The weak, with
whom suspicions are always proofs, and
the wicked, in whom proofs of innocence
produce no change of conduct, oonfpired
alike to propagate the clamour, till, by
its violence and progress, it acquired a
kind of certitude in the minds of the
multitude. Their confidence in the most
tried patriots was converted into diftrull,
obedience to the laws into an intolerable
burden ; clubs into assemblies ; and every
citizen into a legislator. The crisis of
their fate was nearly arrived. Virtuous
men gradually disappeared from the pub
lic- cum.tila, -nirafalc xo ft em the Torrent of
disorder, or defparing to save the repub
lic. The rhetoricians composed toasts on
the occasion for the clubs, and took their
place, amidst the acclamations of thg- peo
ple. Thele, however, did not long ex
ercise the authority thus acquired. They
split into factions. Civil diflentions en
sured, and—
At that moment we arrived before the
house of AmarchuSj who was conveifing
under the portico with Timoleon the po
et. Let us thank God, whifpercd Aga
thon, as we approach them, that we find
none of these symptoms of disorder and
diflblation at Athens.
Baltimore, May 12, 1794.
CONGRESS.
House of Reprefntatives.
Friday, May 9.
On the report of the committee on
Ways and Means—A motion being made
by Mr. Nicholas to ftrikeoutall the stamp
JDuties.
Mr. Smith, S. C. chairmanof the com
mittee observed that in the present fitua
tipti of our affairs very considerable addi
tional revenues w*re neceflary for the sup
port of government and to defray the ex- i
pences which had been or were likelv to
be incurred this fefiion. He stated that
the attual probable appropriations for the 1
current year, would amount to the sum
/ >694,217 dollars, while the revenues
to meet them would notexceed the sum of 1
5.3 '8,584 dollars, leaving a deficit of ,
2 >3/5>633 dollars—But as one of the i- 1
terns in the expenditures, viz. the million |
tor foreign mtercourfe wonld probably not ,
be wanted, or if wanted, might pe.haps '
be borrowed, the committee had onlv ftat- 1
ed the interest on that sum, namely 60,000 c
dollars, which therefore left to be provid- f
ed this fcflion the sum of 1,435,633 dol- v
lars. And he was clearly of opinion that r
CongreU ought not to rife until they had a
provided that sum. He was within bounds c
when he lated that sum as fufficient; for f
it the million above alluded to (and which 0
was deftmed for an objedt which, the phi- ' c
lanthropy of every member would urge the ii
J >
e employment of, if judicable) HlonUv
t wanted, and there Ihould be auvduii
i in borrowing it, an event not
- the house would regret the a «l e A 'f /'
, interelting an object. The ° of io
f however, calculating on the imn
1 and on the profpeft of a 1 0 J- n > '
' lln S to impoie any fuul.er i>un|, tlls U ' t T
r were ablolutely eifential, had \rm ,
- depend on the interelt alone th! k-°
, might have been more expedient r!!l "
! P ro yided for a part of the pnnci| h j vt
1 bmith said that in the report t L r ,
: 650,000 dollars was ftatcd bsf ur ° f
1 gent expences which might, orwhU
■ not be incurred ; since tVre^ h fe ht
- made, a law had adually fc
1 men ting the military eflablifhtnent b
: addition of a corps of artillerists a „'d l*
' neers ' for g/"*(oi«ng the fortification, i
\ expences of which he estimated at 1 - o ' c
: dollars; another law had paiTed 1
the Prelident to call into favicc 800
militia; although this was a continJm
; expcnce, yet a, the Prtfideht was autho.
! riled to incur it, a provifio i ought to be
. made for discharging it, this was cltimsM
1 at 150,000 dollars, the only item then
| lemaining under the head of contingencies
j was the provisional force; it was probable
this might not be wanted; it would reft
with the house to determine whether the
present crisis did not require fucna mea
lure, and in that event, whether pvovifion
ought not now to be made to carry it into
execution. He confeffed he was among
those who thought that a vigorous p r(pa .
ration for war was one of the bell means
to avert it; at all events, if it was thedc
sign of any nation to force us into it, we
ought to be prepared for it both as to mi.
litary strength and pecuniary resources;
admitting however that,this measure was
not contemplated it only produced a re
duction of 330,000 dollars from the sum
total of appropriations and would itill leave
a deficit in our ways and means of 1,105,
r * observed that the appropri
ations of the current year would exceed
those of any former year by upwards of
two millions and a half of dollars;
The several items which occasioned that
excess were as follows:
Building and equipping fix
frigates, 700,000
Fortifications of ports and
Building additional arsenals
and pu,chafe of military
stores, 350,000
Appropriation for foreign
intercourse, 1,000,000
Corps of artillerists and en
gineers, 170,000
Expences of militia, 150,000
v Dolls. 2,670,000
Deducing the expenses of the mili
tia, which was a war expence, still there
remained the sum of 2,520,000 dolls, as
an excess beyond any former expenles for
our peace ejlab!i/hment, for there was not
an item of expence in the foregoing
statement which would not, or might not
be incurred, even if peace Ihould conti
nue.
It was a fortnnate circumstance, at
this moment of public exigency, that tha
national treasury was in poifefiion of a
surplus, ariling . from the revenue of
former years, which furpafled our molt
sanguine expectations. This surplus
amounted to the important sum of
1,618,584 dollars, and was a mofl fatif
faftorv evidence of the growing produo
tivenels of our revenues in times ot peacc
and tranquility, and while it helped to
enable us to face the increafcd expendi
tures of the country, it taught us to che
rish that state of things, which was pro
ductive of such national blcllings. But
we could not flatter ourselves that the re
venues of this year would be as produc
tive as those of the preceding year; ma
ny circumstances would contribute to di
minilh them considerably, even if peace
Ihould not be interrupted ; the very prof
pe<st of a war would cause a diminution
of exports from Great Britain, to the
United States, and at the fame time a
diminution of consumption among our
selves : prudent men, apprehensive of war,
would retiench their expenses in order to
meet the diminution of their incomes,
and to be better able to contribute their
quotas to the public treasury. The mea
fnres which have been diicuTed in Con
gress, relative to a sequestration of Britift
debts, and a fufpeniioo of all commercial
intercourse, would, by deltroying that
%confidence which h« heretofore cxifted,
unqueftioiiahly diminilh our importations
from that country, wh:ch principally mr
oiihes them. To these circumftauces
might be added, the derangements ocoa
fioned to the commerce of tiiis port by
the unfoituate epidemic lall lummer, to
that of ail liie ports by the present embar
go, by the extensive spoliations commit
ted on our veffeb by the belligerent pow
ers, and the interruption occasioned by
the Aigeiines to our commence with the
south of Europe. The committee, ta
king all these considerations into view had
calculated on a defalcation in the revenue,
arifuig firora unpoft and tonnage for this
year, of 1,300,000 dollars, and had esti
mated it at only 3,300,000 dollars where
as, that of 1793 produced 4,600,000 dol
lars.
fT <i be continued.)
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 27.
The bill for railing Revenue by a (lamp
duty, was negatived on the third reading
this day, JO— to 32.
The Conenrd; French frigate is returned to
Hampton road—not being able to overtake
either of the English Blips which Ihe went in
pursuit of
A writer ill the Baltimore Daily Adver
tiser fays, that " many of the Captains con
vinced of the evil tendency of the combina
tion, have withdrawn from it"—nor is it to
be wondered at "as it is now generally
known die? have been the dupes of a few,
■who have excited these commotions to grati
fy private refentiueats."
House of Reprefentalmes, May if).
On the queftioii for engrailing the bill im
poling sundry flump dutie , the yeas and
nays were as follows:
AYES.
Messrs. Ames, Armllrong,Beatty,Cad
wallader, Clark, Cobb, Coffin, Coit, Daw
fon, Davton, Deaiborn, Dent, Fitzfi
mons, Foller, Gilbert, Gillefpie, Glenn,
Goodhue, Gordon, Griffin, Grove, Hart
ley, Hiilhoufc, Hindman, Hunter, Kit
tera, Learned, Latimer, Montgomery,
Murray, Pickens, Scott, Sedgwick, J.
Smith, Swift, Thatcher, Tracy, Trum
bull, Van Allen,Van GaalheJc, P. W,xlf
worth, Ward, Watts, Wirni— 4_(. ;
NOES.
Messrs. Bailey, Baldwin,Blount, Carnes,
Christie, Claibourne, Coles, Findley,
(riles, Gillon, Gilman, Gregg, tieiller,
Lyman, Mtcon, Malbone, M'Do well,
Mebane, Moore, Muhlenberg, Nevil, New,
Nicholas, Niles, Parker, Rutherford, Smi
lie, T. Smith, Sprigg, Tredwell, V.
Courtland, Venable, Walker, Williams,
Win (lon—3 y.
The following mefTage was received
from the President. Its importance to
the mercantile interest, induces us to give
a literal copy of it.
United States, May 26, 1794.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of
The Houfr of Representatives.
The commissioners of his Catholic Ma
jesty having communicated to the Secre
tary of State, the form of a certificate,
without which the vessels of the United
States cannot be admitted into the ports
of Spain ; 1 think it proper to lay it be
fore Congress.
(Signed) Go. Was HINGTON.
Form of a certificate which is required in
order that the produce of the United
States may be admitted into the ports
of Spain, to wit: Before me, See. per
sonally came of the city of
■ > merchant and citizen, who be
ing duly sworn according to law, on his
solemn oath doth depofc and fay, that the
cargo here {hipped by him in the ship
, whereof is mailer,
now bound from this port of
for in Spain, to wit:
are of the growth or produce of the Uni
ted States of America, (which I the said
notary or magi fir ate also attest) and that
no part thereof are of the produce of
France, or her colonies, nor have the fame
or any part thereof received any advan
tage or improvement in France, or any of
its dependencies, nor in any manner con
tributed to its revenues ; and the said de
ponent further fays, that the said cargo
so shipped 13 the sole property of him the
deponent, and that they are citizens of
the United States of America, and resi
dent merchant of the said city of- .
Sworn as above before me .
In teftimoay whereof, and that the laid
V '
, gotxU arr of Ac produce <Sr manufacture
1 1 of th: said United States of America,
• 1 and that I am well informed that the laid
; | ihipment is bonaiide intended for the port
. ! of , in the kingdom of Spain,
I the laid magistrate and notary have hete
-1 unto let my hand and affixed my notarial
seal, the day and year above written.
Quod attestor.
A bill to a mead an ast to enable the
officers and soldiers of the Virginia line,
on the Continental establishment, to re
ceive patents for the land to which they
have a claim in the territory north-weft of
the Ohio, was amended in committee of
the whole, the amendment agreed to in
the House, and ordered to be engrailed.
A report on invalid peufiojjers, was
made and ordered to be printed.
AdjoOrned.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, May z6.
Yesterday arrived here, in 41 days from
Londonderry, the ship Atlas, Capt. Bunker,
by whom we have received Dublin papers to
the Bth, and London papers to the 4th of
April. Copious Extrails therefrom, (hall be
given to-morrow. From a fnperficial pe
rusal of the latelt papers, we find that His
Majesty the King of Prussia has withdrawn
his a any. " Since the defection of the king
of Prussia from the Allies, (fays a Dublin
paragraphiftJ it is furprifir.g to hear with
what activity the mofl sanguine idvorates
for this war of devaflation, now circulate the
reports of an approaching peace."
It was reported, and believed, th«t Jersey
was in ooffcfTionof the French.
No ailion of conference has happened—
though many fkinnifhes.
Dr. Prieffly preached his Farewell Sermon
on the jo*h March, at Hackney, to a ve y
'crowdl'd audience, previous to his failing for
America—from Ads 20 —31. Daily Gaz.
Yesterday afternoon arrived the ship Atlas,
JCapt. Bunker, in 42 days from London
derry :—By this veffsl <we have received
Dublin Papers to the 49 th of March, from
which ive have taken the following :—
Dai. Adv.
PARIS, March 18.
Five o'clock in the Evening.—The Editor
of the Paris Journal, which is dispatched by
extraordinary couriers, waited till the above
hour to hear the report made bv Amar ref
pecling Chabot, Bazire, Eabre d'Eglantine,
Julien of Toulouse, and Delaunay of Angers,
from v hich it results that Delauny of Au
_ . ffrrs. F3.bE<2-.d'Fjj|!aatona, Ciiatiot, <wld Jnlitll
of Toulouse are conviiSl d of beiw* accellary
to a plan tending to f vor private interest to
11C prejudice of public weal. It is probable
fiat the report will terminate by a motion
to deliver up those Deputies to the Revolu
tionary Tribunal.
DUBLIN, March 29.
The Englilh newspapers of Monday and
Tuesday are filled with a variety of re
ports.
Lord Elgin's arrival in London afforded
matter for strange speculation ; among
which the illness or death of the emperor
was one.
Others reported, that the Archduke
Charles' was gone to Vienna, in conse
quence of the news received at Brussels
from Frankfort, that the king of Prussia
had withdrawn himfelf from the general
alliance. It was also said, that the young
king had escaped from Paris, and was ar
rived fafe at Brussels.
it does not appear, that any account
whatever has been received in London of
the emperor's sudden illness; any more
than of the king of Prtiffia's having desert
ed the general alliance. The news of his
Prussian majesty's final intentions in regard
to the war, mud come from lord Malmef
bury at Berlin, and not fromPruffian agents
at Frankfort The report of the arrival
of young Louis XVII. at Brussels arises
from a young German nobleman of about
nine years of age, of great expectations,
having arrived there from Frankfort, from
whence he travels in fomeftate. The rul
ing demons of Pans have long held a mali
cious and obstinate silence, even as to the
exiuence of the young monarch, and his in-
J ured relatives.
We cannot help thinking that the report
(for as yet it is only a report) of the se
cession of the king of Prussia from thegrand
alliance, mud be totally unfounded. That
arl absolute monarch should degrade him
br a pecuniary capitulation with the
very dregs of mankind, and should conde
icend to treat with those, who have used
towels all ki "S s »hc most scandalous and
yihfjng epithets seems to us little less than
impossible. Time will develope this my-
Ut thus much seems
if it is poflible for the French bvCdfe.
fraud, or bribery, to dissolve the alliance
againlt thim, every power w Europe will,
ft
in its turn, becoaie a prey to the despotism
of their Hvagc and icrocious anarchy; ana
the only conitort the fit It fecedercan have,
will be
"TiioU fhait,goodNetr,o,be thelaft I'lleat."
The arrests and executions at Paris conti
nue, in such a degree, that the number of
daily victims is incredible. The late reports 1
o> scarcity there, are attempted to be contra
dialed ; but by the measures taken to pre
vent monopoly, and to.-watch over the Tale
of their eggs and cabbages, it does not ap
pear that iamine is very far from tjieir doors.
The Gazette of the ajth intt. (which we
received yesterday) brought no information,
but the appointments of Lord St. Helen. to
be AmbalTador to the States General of tlie
United Provinces , and Sir Morton Eden to
his Chatholic Majesty.
A very considerable export of linen from
this port for Philadelphia and New-York,
has taken place within this month past, which
murt be considered as a very pleasing circum
flance by every well wilher to the encreafing
trade of this kingdom.
FALMOUTH, March i S .
The Royal Charlotte Packet left Guernsey
011 Saturday morning tiie nd ; but having
got the length of the Galketts, it blew ftich
a gale of wind that /he was obliged to bear
away, and the fame evening came to an an
chor in Guernsey Roads.
She failed again on the 23d, and arrived
at Weymouth at 7 A. M. yesterday.
In her paflage, a-brealt of the Gaftetts,
almost two leagues to the westward of them,
Sunday, at noon, she fell in with admiral
Macbnde's squadron.consisti ng of four line
of battle snips, four frigates and a (loop of
war ; and two frigates arrived in Guernsey
Roads, the fame morning as the packet fail
ed, supposed to be part of the lame squadron.
The packet brings advice, that 011 Satur
day night seven large tranlparts with troops
ait.l Junes for Jersey, under convoy of two
frigates, a (loop of war, and an armed cutter,
arrived at Guernsey.
It was gene, ally believed at BiufTels,
when the la ft accounts came away, that
the King of Prussia had actually made a
compact with the Ruling Power in France,
in confequencc of which, his forces, his
contingent excepted, will be withdrawn
from the frontiers. We state this as
a mere report. Sun,
i he Carmagno'e, French Frigate, car
ties thirty 24. pounders, and is manned
with the flower of the remnant of the
I' rencli navy. She has hitherto proved
fuece'sful, not having met with any thing
near her proportion in metal. The Ar
tois, lying at Deptford, under the -corn*. I
maud of Lord Charles Fitzgerald, goes
out under a roving coinmilfion, and means
to fail into the track which this Republi
can veflel has for some f'rae occupied in
the North Seas. The Artois carries 28
eighteen pounders, and 6 nine pounders
011 the fame deck, 4 thirty two poundeYs
(earonnades) on the quarter deck, and
four nine pounders on the forecaftle.
The Danilh veflels are no small object of
this enterprize.
The Viscount Pioger, aid-du-camp to
the Marquis de Drefrny, the French Ge
neral who commands the Emigrants, came
to Weymouth in the packet, and we learn
that the Royalists on the banks of the
Loire are 80,000 strong; but that only
half that number are properly armed, the
reft having only (licks, clubs, or any wea
pon they could
Yesterday was pregnant with rumours
of great importance.
The circumstance of the Arch-Duke,
Charles, brother of the Emperor and Go
vernor of the Low Countries, having sud
denly set oft" for Vienna on the evening of
the 19th, in consequence of an express
which he received, has given eife to much
conjecture and speculation at Bruflels.
We fliall state all the circumstances which
have come to our knowledge, and leave
the public to judge for themielves.
Yesterday Mr. Hankey received a let
ter from Bruflels, dated Saturday last, da
ting that the Arch-Duke Charles, in con
sequence of an express, set off on the e
vening of the 19th for Conde. He there
met with a Boy to whom he paid parti
cular refpeft. He brought him to Brus
sels the night of the 2tft, and on the
morning of the 22d they departed toge
ther for Vienna. That Boy, was suppo
sed to be the young King «f Fiance.—
This letter Mr. Hankey shewed to the
Minilter.
By an express from Bruflels, which left
that city likewise on Saturday, very different
accounts were received* Tbe general belief
according to this account, of the cause of
the Arch Duke's sudden departure, was,
that the Emperor was dangerouily ill, aud
according to some, actually dead.
The Earl of Elgin arrived in town yester
day morning at fix o'clock, having made an
uncommonly quick journey from Bruflels to
London. ,
;
We tear that the Prefidtntof the
States at the instance of the National Con
vention of France has recalled Mr. Morris— *
and has nominated Mr. Monroe a Senator
of the United States, from th<» state of Vir
ginia, to succeed Mr. Morris.—We also hear,
that Mr. Carmichael is recalled from Spain,
and is to be succeeded by Mr. Short.
From Corkespondskts.
There has been much writing and har
anguing against the proposed duty on
and Sugar; the bug-bear of excise,
&c. has been brought forward ; but those
worn-out ideas have had as little effect as
the cry of the boy, who used to call out
Wolf, Wolf, on every occasion.
The truth probably is, that the Snujf
and Sugar manufafturies are so very lucra
tive, that a disclosure of the immense pro
fits some people have made, may excite
competition and diffufc those benefit*
which a fe<zu have monopolized.—l fine ii
* lachrvma !
7
■»
Agreeably to notice, a
meeting of'the Sul>"criher* to the Aruelrs of
Agreement ot thj Columbian Society, was
this day held at Mr. R'chardet's, for the pur
pale of chuiing Ma lagers, & c . when the fol
lowing persons were chosen ;
Robert Morris, President.
MANAGERS.
James Greenleaf
Trifiram Dal ton,
John Nieholfon
Caleb LUsvnes,
Tho*ntts Fitzjimons.
"James IV'tlfm,
F. A. Mubieni rg,
Walter Ste wart,
John flnft
Richard Sorln/lrom,
Nathaniel IV. Appleton. '
Treasurer.
Garrett Cottingtr.
Ma y 2 7 dfw
NEW THEATRE.
Mr. Whitlock s Night.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
May 28.
Will be performed,
A TRAGEDY, never performed in Ame
rica, called
JULIA;
O R
The ITALIAN LOVER.
Duke of Genoa, Mr. Finch
P urazzi1 > Mr. Green
Mentevole, Mr. Fer.ncll
Marcellus, Mr. Morcton
Camillo, Mr. Cleveland
Officer, Mr. de Moulin
Savant, Master Warrell
Manoa, Mr. Whitlock
Fulvia, 'Mrs. Shaw
Julia, Mrs. Whitlock
Olympia, Mrs. Francis
Nerina, Mrs. Cleveland
End of the Play, a humorous vocal PARO
DY, on Shakespeare's SEVEN AGES,
by M,. Bates.
End of the Tragedy, a new Comic Pastoral
Ballet, composed by Mr. Fra cis, called
L 'Amour trouve les Moyens ;
Or the
FRUITLESS PRECAUTION.
By Mons. Belona, being his third appear
ance in America, Mr. BlilTett, Mr. bar
ley jun, Master T. Warrell, Mr. Francis,"
Mrs. De Marque, and Madame Gardie.
To which will be added,
(Written by the late David Garrick,) a Co
medy in two a<sls, never performed here,
called
BON TO N;
O R
High Life above Stairs.
Sir John Trotley, Mr. Whitlock
Lord Minikin, Mr. Moreton
Col. Tivy, Mr. Cleveland
J e « am y» Mr. Harwood
t Mr -
Lady Minikin, Mrs. Shaw
Miss Tittup, ( with thefong) " the
Soldier tired." Mrs. Oldmixon
Tickers to be had of Mr. Whitlock, the
corner of Fourth and Mulberry streets at
the aftial places, and of Mr. Franklin at the
Theatre, where places for the boxes maybe
taken.
Mr. MARSHALL'S Benefit will be cn
Friday.
A Comedy, written by Shakefpearr, called
A3 YOU LIKE IT, with a Comic O
pera, called HARTFORD BRIDGE
or the SKIRTS of a CAMP. '
Mr. WARRELL's Benefit will be on
Monday next.. PVlad-\ph'a, March, « 1794.
f JUST PUBLISHED,
Jte/ MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Mirkel Jlntl,
j; £ FIK.ST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography:
OR. A
Geographical? Hi/iorical, ana
Commercial Grammar;
And uTfrrtt flite »fthe f'eieral
NATIONS OF THE WORLD. !
COKTAIMJ.C, 1
Tfv* motions, and distances of
the pU'» Cs, acc » the Newtonian fyf
teiu and the latest obfevvations.
2. A general view of the earth, considered
as a planet; with f>veral ufeful geographical
definitions.and problems
-3 The grand divisions of the globe into
land and water, continent* and islands.
4. The liruation and extent" of empires,
kingdoms, Hates, provinces and cokhiies:
5. Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
produ&ioiift, metals minerals, nataral curi
ollties, leas, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
aud lakes.
6. The birds and beasts peculiar to each
country.
7. Observations on the changes that have
been any wherp <fbferved upon the face ot na
ture fmce the molt ear[y periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations; theit
forms of government, religion/ Jaws, reve
nues, taxes, naval and military strength.
9. The genius, manners, cuftomand ha
bits of the people.
10. Tlitfir language, learning,arts,fciences,
manufacture*, and commerce.
11. T ie cbief cities, itru&ures, ruins, aud
artificial curiosities
12. The latitude, bearings, and
distances of priwrip:'Jplaces from Philadelphia.
To which are added.
1. A Geographical Index, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Taslk of the Corys of all nations, and
their value in dollars and cents.
3. A Chronology a l T \ BLE of remarkable
events, from the creation to the present tim**
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Agronomical Part corrected by
.y ' D . iIITTENHOUSE.
X® which have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herschell,
atid othst em netit Astronomers.
The FI IST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrected, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firft voiume contaiiis twenty-one Maps
and Charts, besides two Aitronomical Plates,
viz.
1. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world.
3. Europe. 4. Alia. 5. Africa. 6. South
America' 7. Cook's difcovenes. 8. Coun
tries round the north Pole. 9 Sweden, Den
mark, aud Norway, so. Seven United Pro
vinces. ' 11 A'uftrian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. 13 Seat of'war
in Fra ice. 14. France divided into depai t»
ments. 15- Switzerland. 16. Italy, ■ Sicily,
and Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
58. Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 20 Weft-Indies. 2t. Vermont. 22. Ar
ni'llary sphere. 23. Copernican Qrftem.
With the second volume, which is now in
the will be given the following Maps :
x. Ruflia in Europe and Asia.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
5. China.
6. Hindoftan.
7. United States.
g. British America.
9. State of New-Hamplhire.
,0. State of MafTachufetts.
ji« State of Connecticut.
3 «. State of Rhode Island.
j3- State of New-York.
j4- State of New-Jersey.
• 15. State of Pennsylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18- State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
2d. State of North-Carolina.
21. Tennessee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23* State of Georgia.
VIRUS.
j. This work will be compriied in two vo
lumes.
2. SMbfcribers pay for the present volume on
i 'delivery, fix. dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (56 cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the succeeding volume
in twenty-tour weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finilhed, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The fubfeription will be raised on the firft
day of June i 794» to fourteen dollars, ex
cluhve of binding.
5. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
6. The names of the fubferibers will be pub
lished as patrons of American literature,
arts,and sciences.
It it wholly unneceflary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American readers, that this edi
tion pofTelTes, over every imported edition of
any system of Geography extant. The addit
tion of maps of the several state*, procured a
a very great expense, and from the belt ma
terials that are attainable, speaks such full
conviction on this fubjett, that it would be
difrefpett to the reader's understanding to
fupp jfe it reqoifite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
fimtlar work have such maps beencver intro
duced.
Thi eiiiendUiions and addition? which ar
made in this wurk,are innumerable, and oecuj
uieve'V page. The public are referred to
the preface for a flight flcetch of a few of
them-
The publiflier takes the present opportu
nity of returning fvs in"ft sincere thanks to
t:iofc rei'p,ft.iblc characters who have favored
liim with documents for improving the maps
of several of the ftaus. He requests a conti
nuance of their kindness; and hopes that luch
public fpinted citizMs, js are poflejTed of h
tnilar docum irts, will favor hi:n with their
alSltanc' i" perfecting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he his been favored, has excited
in his bread the warmed fentimentj of grati
tude—(entinisnts which time will not efface.
H_- pledges himfelf to the citizens of the
United State"., to fparr neither pains nor ex
penfi to render the present edition ofGuthrie's
Geography improved, deserving of their pa
tronage. wafti
N O T I C E.
THS OFFICE of the Secretary of State is
removed from H-j»h Street, to the New Build
ings the corner of Sixth & Mulberry streets
May 15 1 w
~ SHOES.
A quantity of ft«ut well made Men's size
SHOES, adapted for the Southern market, foi
sale at
No. 36, North Third Jireet.
May" 6 niw&fiot
NANKEENS.
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
FOR SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April 21. mw&ftf
ESSENCE
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold by Dr. Lee> Golden-
Square, London. I
THE pub ic 's ofjied one of the most 1
efficacious and fafe medicines, that ever ap
peared, for that most excruciating pain, the
Tooth-Ache —the numerous inft-ances of its
happy eflfefts, in relieving the aifli<fted, have
now brought 11 into u.ii versa] estimation ; it
notonlv relieves the but is of the
utmost service in curing in the
Gums, in preventing the diflitfreeatye smell
that is produced from unfonri«ftee hj & wi VI |
' occasion ,a sweet breath jit bkfewHe pri vents
the teeth from decaying, and will be found
a general prefei vet of the Teeth and Gums
Sold in Philadelphia only at
Pojntdfr Stativnaiy Store, —-
No. 21, Second ltreet.
April 24. tuth&s 3W
T'be Ground Plan
OF THE
City and Suburbs
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM ACTUAL SURrKT.
IT is with pleasure (hat the publisher has to
inform his fubferibersand the public in gene
ral, that the plate now under the hands of
the engraver, and in greater forwardnfs than
was at firft contemplated. At the fame time
he begs leave to t\mind them, th-t fubferip
tion papers are Hill open at most of the noted
book-ftnres in the city ; and that he hope
from the whole of them to be enabled to so r,
such a refpeftable catalogue of names, a? will
do a credit to the work, is well as alfoid a'
reasonable encouragement to the undertake-
Thole who are delirousof further informa.
tion are requested to call on
Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, Market street.
Ap r, l T 4- m&thtf
freafury Department.
xrn-ru-7'"T°^ f ' May Vh >
NO 1 ICE is hereby given, thai Proposals
Will he ferrived at the Office of the Commis
siOner ot the Revenue, for Ship Timber of
the following kinds, fu'table for the building
ol the Frigates authorized by Law. A par
ticular detail of the sizes and proportions will
be communicated, on application at the said
Orace.
White Oak T,mlcr and Plank.
98 Piece, of various Dimensions, includ
'"g Keels, Floor and Rising Timbers,
&rc. for a Veir e l of 140 or i«o feet
Keel
. 2 ' °°° Feet of Plank, Scantling, Wal.
u pieces, Bilge Streak-:, Clamps, &c. &e
Sj 200 Logs, for various ules. '
£ Pitch Pine.
J. 2 5,°00 Feet of Plank for Decks.
0 210 Beams, from 42 to 28 feet long, and
1 from 10by 12 to ,5 by t8 inches thro 1 .
50,000 Locufl 18, 24 and *o
inches long. c
S,ooo Feet of Inch and half-inch Cedar
Boards.
30,000 Feet of Yellow Pine Boards and
Scantling
<
''"'"e t0 supply any part or ttie
T, T b ; r !" r Sh 'P. <" prnpoil ion
the whole fix, will make tl eir Pr fak
accordingly, tu Jw
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
several of which have appeared in circulation
within a few days pajt; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be dijlinguifhed by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills cf the Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is smaller
than theM. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M, would extend con
siderably above the range of the whole word.
til the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer tbgether than th« reft of the bill
The i and Jin the word proinife are not
parallel, the /inclining much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the strokes
of all the Letters are stronger and the device
in the margin particularly ismuch coarser and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
of the counterfeits bear daie in 1791—Where
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and 110 five dollar bills were ilTued in
ihat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. tor their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described ; the engraving is better exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty) in the body'of the bill, are in number thir
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as described a
bove, the 0 being less than the m, and others
following.
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tu> and go
ing below them.
The signature J, Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with and
oil, and differs from other inks used in
printing the bills and the caihier's iignature.
It is luppofed these forgeries were commuted
in some ol the Southern btates, as all coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have eome
ihenci, and two perloos have been apprehend
ed in Viiginia,on (ufpicTon o? bt ugTTie « oßtcr - -
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
wiil be paid to any Person or/ Persons who shall
difcovti and profecuie to convi&ion the leveral
offenders of the following de r mptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufzftured
the paper on which the Bills arc printed.
The person or persons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
Every perlon who has acted as a principal in
( aoy other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
r Philadelphia, March 28, 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
' ter B.
They may be distinguished from the genu
ine by the following MARKS :
The paper ot the counterfeits is of a more
tend r texture and glofley furface than the
genuine, and ther« is no water mark in them.
The letter C. in the word Cashier, in ihe
true bills is ftrongiy marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter it a hair
stroke, evidently in an unfinifhed state. The
letter a in the word demand, is badly formed
and the whole word ill done, andtheie is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
j. genuine bills.
marginal device, ismuch daiker in
• I,' Ik j t ' la " " le g enu '"e bills owing to
I ,6 1 ro^es being coarser, much nearer
I o g e ther, and consequently much more nu
merous. This difference strikes the eye at firft
view.
I 8 rcward of ON E THOUSAND
AUS, will be paid for apprehendinji, &
' P r "' ec "ting to conviction the several above
o<ftnder s in refpeft to this, as to
the last described bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Pcefident
of the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, Prefidcnt of the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Res
! pedfcive Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground
I I Y N an eligible situation,—also a Country Seat
6 miles ot the City, with 9 acres of
or 42 acres ot land and meadow, the
HTmTe is not exceeded bvmany in the vrcinity
1 of the city, in (ize, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
m&ttf
I !
Beef, Pork, and Butter.
BEEF, prime and cargo ot good quality
PORK, prime and cargo of do.
BURLING sON PORK
BUTTER, ill firkins
ALSO,
A CARGO OF
MAHOGANT,
Landing at John Weft's Lumber Yard, near
Pool's Bridg , from on board the Fail Ameri
can, from thr Ba\ of Honduras, and
3000 bushels of Good Wheat
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 35, No. VJater Street.
May 15. d, 25 .
Just Published,
A one handsome volume, 12010. Price 5s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Chefuut
Strctf,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights thai result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
CorreEled and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
1). D.
Profeflor of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
oi Nature, and of Ecclesiastical History ;
and Minister of the Englilh Chuich at I).
trecht.
Aliquid Temper ad communem utilitarem af
ferent nm. Cicero.
Tht Firjl American Edition.
THEgrand principle of Equality, if right
ly understood, is the only basis 011 which
universal justice, I'acred order, and per fed
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The view of it exhibited in this
eflay, at the fame time that it reprcll'es the
insolence of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages of oppreflion ; co«fiini», in the
mod forcible manner, the neceflity of subor
dination, and the just demands of lawful au
thority. So tar indeed, from loosening the
bands of focicty, that it maintains invioliUe,
every natural and every civil diftinaion,
draws more clolely every social tie, unites in
one harmonious and justly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, ot reciprocal obligation, and ol 1 a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. tuts
STATE or SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representatives,
- * - *** «- -PiCiMRU 9 lit, 17Q3.
X the Comnnflioners oT public
\ V Accounts, have repoited, that they can*
not proofed to the invcßigation.of the Treasury
Accounts, refpe&ing <p" cial Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
cu!a r 101^:— Therefore,
Refolvcd, That all holders of special Indents
be dm &ed, and required, on 01 before the fiift
day of Nov mber rr xt,to deliver the fp-cial In
dents in poffeflion to one or other of the
CorTtrnifliOners of the Treasury, who are to give
rceipts for the fame, and to rep> rt totheCom
miffioriers on public accounts, on or before the
trrith day of November next, the amount by
then® relpeftively received, and also to the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next,
and that all special Indents not tendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before tbe firft day
of November next, shall be, and the fame are
heieby barred.
Refolvedy That public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the fiift day of
November next. And ihat the Delegates of this
State in the Congrels ot the United S ates, be re
qucfted to cause this rdolution to be published
in one or moie papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will 4 be
made for the expences attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
<Seuate tor their concurrence.
By orderof the House,
JOHN' SANIORD DART, C. H. R.
In the SENATE,
December 21ft, 1793.
Refolvcd, That this House do concur wilh the
Houle of Representatives in the foregoing reso
lutions.
Ordered, That tire resolutions be lent to the
Hpule ot Representatives.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk*
ewtNov.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b<gs leave to of
tf r his fervicesto his friends and others, in the
line ol a Stock Broker. Thole who may please
to favor him with their bufwefs, rrfay diprnd
upon having it tranlafted with the utmost fide
lity ar»d dispatch.
Orders Itom Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other partot the United States, will be ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&thtf
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 3
South Fourth-Street.
«