evening adv
[No. 19 of Vol. V.]
NO R R I S-C OU R T,
Bick of the New Library, between Cliel'nut
•od Walmit-Strett^
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friend-? and
the public in gene* - ?!, that he continues
f arrying on the huftttf ft of A
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Like wife, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-lbutter<, done in the mod '
elegant manner, and with difyarch.
Orders from tlie country will be thankfully
received, and daly attended to.
December 30, dtf
Just published,
And to be fold by Stewart & Cochran,
No. 34, South Second-street,
THE
United States Register,
For the Year 1794 ;
Containing, besides accurate and complete
lift l ! of all the Officers in the general, and the
principal Officers in the particular govern
ments, a variety of information, ufefcl for all
tf
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Stcond-Jlrccl,
Seconddoot b;low the corner of Chefuut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general AJfortment of
New Books and Stationary,
"Which will be disposed of on the lowest terms.
Dec. 23. mw&f tf
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
By M. CAREY,
No. 118, MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuable collection ofBOOKS,
imported from London in the Mohawk.
Dec. 19.
Parry and Mufgrav-e,
Goldsmiths is? Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortmenl of
SILVER fcf PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY fcffine CUTLERY,
Which they will dispose of on the most rea
fonab'c terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the told and lilver
way, <We as usual.
December 24.
NOTICE
IS hereby given, to the Members of the
Insurance Company of North-America,
That the third Instalment, being Two Dollars
on each (hare of the Stock, is to be paid, a
greeably to the Conftitntion, on the second
Monday [the 13th day] ofJanuary next: And
a Central Meeting, of the Stockholders i* t» be
!ie!d on the succeeding day, for the purpose of
choosing Fifteen Dtriflorj, examining into the
Situation of the Company's Affairs, and ma
king such additional Rules and Regulations
as they fhatl judge necefTary.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Secratarv.
Dec. 16. niw&; t3. ij
MONEY borrowed or loaned, accounts sta
ted or colle&cd, employers suited with
domestics, houie rooms, boarding and lodging
rented, let or procured—foldicr's, mariner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims on the
public ; lb a res in the banks, in the canals, and
the turnpike road : certificates granted by the
public, and the old and late paper monies;
notes of hand, bills, bonds and morgages, with
or without deposits—Bought, fold, or rego
ciated at No. 8, in south Sixth-street, below
Market-street by FRANCIS WHITE,
WhotranfatU business in th© public offices for
country people and others, by virtue of a pow
er of attorney, or by perforral application.
December 11. d
E. Oswald,
No. 156, Market-Street, South,
A T the request of a number of friend',
proposes publilhing The Independent
Gazetteer, twice a week, viz, Wednefdavs
and Saturdays—to commence in January next,
if fufftcient encoeragement offers
It will be publillied on Paper and Types
equal to its present appearance. The Aib
fcription 3 J dollars per ann.
Advertileinents not exceeding a fqsare,
will lie iuferted 4 times for j dollar—ev»ry
continuance one fifth of a dollar. Tho'c ex
ceeding a square, in the fame proportion.
€vt*rttr of tilt Urofd
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfticads and in ctfci of bonlct ach.
a l s a,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
Bh TNG desirous of cloGtig various commer
cial concern*, and tl.nt M! pfutrs hereto
fore grjntci rrlmive to the faint liiould be 1..
voktd,)and public no'icd of it given r to prevent
p'jflible ; I, the fublcribrr, Ho iteti
by mflke known tf» all whom it may concern,
thit.iil ooweri and letters 0/atromey, of every
lirftuie and extent. gramedl>y me to any prrOt
"r persons, prior to the ift day Inl* lali, to
: 6l for nil or in my nartic in Amur 1 c a, i>c re
voked and made void*
r I~ I HE undernamed commuter, appointed by
1 " THE SOCIETY for the INSTITU
TION and SUPPORT of FIRST-DAY or
SUNDAY SCHOOLS in the city of Philadel
phia and the dilti'£t of SouiWark and the
Northern Lih'ities," to solicit further fuhfetip
tions for the support of the schools which li e
said society have ftiblilhed, take the liberty to
reprcfent to their lellow citizens—
That, although the school* were suspended
during ihe penod of the late avrful calamity
with which our city and suburbs have been af
filed, they are now again opened lor the free
ad million and education of poor children.
That, the nec« Ifiiy and rrafons fortheeftab
lifhment of these schools are increaftd, from the
cjrcumftnnce of the latedillrcfs having left a
number of Orphans dcilitute of all the means
of education, save what the hand of benevolencc
may administer.
That, former r xperience has, most plcafinglv,
vcr'ficd the fond eft hopes of the friends of this
institution, with regard 10 the progief* and ad
vancement of the children, who have heretofore
been under its care, in the ufeful branches o!
education which it has afforded. R< to
this fa£t, and to the addtefs to the pubic, on
this fubjeft, published in the nrwfpapers of this
city 'n the third month last, when about eight
hundred and twenty children of both fexts had
partaken of the benefits afforded by the society,
and about three hundr d and twenty more were
thru actually receiving inftruftiori in their
schools, it now only remains to be observed,
that the funds of the society are grea'ly infuffi
cient to carry on their benevolent designs, and
that the committee formerly appointed to solicit
fubferiptions, conceived it necelfary to decline
their applications to their fellow.citi7.em for
ihcir afhftance iu favor of these schools, in order
that there might be no interruption from them
to the solicitations then made in behalf ot then
unfortunate brethren from Cape-Francois.
rawS:frf
The public aid is now therefore earnestly fo
lieited to support a charitable- cfl.iblilhment, cal
culated upon the principles of public and pri
vate good. The annual fubfeription for a mem
ber is but One Dollar; and prefumcd that
so finall a furo per annum cannot be bcUer dis
posed of, by those who can afford it, than by
bellowing it as the price of the diffufien of nfeful
knowledge among the poor and Iriendlefs.
Subfcnptipns and donations will be gratefully
received by the undernamed committoe on be
half of the society:
Upon examining the ground within the
above described limits, and taking into
consideration all circumstances, the Presi
dent fixed upon the spot upon which the
city has since been laid out, as the most
proper for erecting the public buildings
which are authorised to be prepared by the
foregoing act.
But the eastern branch being made one
of the boundaries, within which the diftridl
of ten miles square was to be laid out, an
Friday, January i 7^4.
In pipes, hogsheads and quaricr caHcs,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
Kn. in, Sftuih Front-ilrcet
Jin. 2, 1794
NOTICE.
JAMES GREENLEAT'
New-Yoik, J/n. 1,1794. <!i
TO THE PUBLIC.
Peter Thompson,
Thomas P. Cope,
Jofcph Pricc,
Edward Pole,
James Hardie,
William Innis,
Benjamin Say,
Nathaniel Falconer,
Francis Bailey,
JelTe Sharplefs,
Samuel Scot ten,
Peter Barker.
F.benezer Large,
Jacob CaufFman,
James Todd,
Joseph James,
Jonathan Penrofe,
George Meade,
John Peiot,
John M*Crec,
Robert Ralfton,
Thomas Armat,
George William*,
Jan. 1
OBSERVATIONS
ON THE
RIVER POTOMACK,
The Covntrt Adjacfnt, and the
CITY OF WASHINGTON.
f Continued from our lajl.)
A N ■»
amendment to the preceding ast was
thought neceflary, Co as to include acon
"nt part of the inid branch, and the
land on the north-eattern fide of it, within
the laid diftritt of ten miles square. A
formal ast for that purpose was according
ly pal Ted on the 3d day of March, 1791.
—-By this means the Commissioners were
enabled so to lay off the dillrift of ten
miles fcjuare, that the center thereof is
made the center of the spot on which the
city is laid out, as nearly as the nature
and form of the ground of the city will
permit. The district of ten miles square
thereby includes the river Potomack for
five miles above and the like diitance below
the middle of the city; and extends in the
slate of Virginia about three miles over the
The whole area of the city conlifts of
upv.arda of four thousand acres.—The
ground, on an average, is about forty
feet above the water of the river. Although
the whole, when taken together, appears
to be nearly a leva! spot, yet it is found to
consist of what may be called wavy land;
and is fuffieiently uneven to give many verk
extensive and beautiful views from various
parts of it, as well as to efFectually answer
every purpose of cleansing and draiping the
city.
Two creeks enter the city, one from
the eastern branch, the other from the Po
tomack, and take inch directions as to be
made to communicate with each other by a
(hort canal.—By this means a water trans
portation, for heavy articlei, is opened in
to (he heart of the city.
No place has greater advantage of wa
ter, either for the supply of the City or
for cleanling the llreets, than this ground.
The most obvious source is from the head
waters of a creek which separates the city
from George-Town.—This creek takes
its 'rife in ground higher than the City,
arid can readily be conveyed to every part of
it.—But the grand object for this purpose,
which has been contemplated by those beil
acquainted with {he country hereabouts,
and the circumltances attending it, and
which has been examined with an eye to
this purpose, by good judges, is the Poto
mack. The water of this river above the
Great-Falls, 14 miles from the city, is one
hundred and eight feet higher than the
tide-water. A small branch, called Watt's-
Branch, just above the falls, goes in a di
rection towards the city. From this branch
to the city a canal may be made (and the
ground admits of it very well) into which
the river, or any part of it, may be turned
and carried through the city.—By this
means the water may not only be carried
over the highest ground in the city—but
if necessary over the tops of the houses.
This operation appears so far from being
chimerical, that it is pronounced by good
judges, who have examined the ground
through, and over which it must pass, that
it may be eftedted for perhaps less money
than it has and will colt the Potomack
company, to make the river navigable at
the Great and Little Falls, and to clear
the bed of the river between them..
Should this be efte&ed, the produce of
the country will naturally be broughtthro'
it ; and the situation afforded thereby for
mills and manufactories of every kind.that
require the aid of water, will be mod ex
cellent, and commensurate with any ob
ject.
The public buildings for the accommo
dation of the Congrefsand the President
of the United States, are begun, and pro
gress with nuch spirit. They are on a
scale equal to the magnitude of the objefta
for which they are preparing ; and will,
agreeable to the plans which have been a
dopted, be executed in n style of archi
tecture, chaste, magnificent and beautiful.
They will be built with beautiful white
stone ; which is pronounced certainly e
qual, if not superior, to the belt Port
land stone, by persons who have been long
experienced in working the firft quality of
Portland stone. The quantity of thi*
stone is fully equal to any demand that can
arifc from it. That used for the public
faffs
E
R T I S E R.
[Whole No. 477.3
buildings is from an island about 40 miles
below the city, which has been purclmfe.i
by tiie Couinii'Qonrr*, and from winch,
and .1 tract or land uu the nVr in
the ueighborlfood of it (the right of get
ting (lone from which, for 23 yvars, baa
a'.fo been purchased by the commifiibners,)
it is supposed that enough of this (lone
may be obtained {o answer every demand,
however great.
Befldes the buildings for the accommo
dation of the government of the United
States, a very superb hotel is erecting, the
expence of which is defrayed by a lotte
ry, the hotel being the higheit prize
This building, with its accommodations
and dependencies, will ptnrhaps be equal to
any of the kind in Europe. v
The original proprietors of the land on
which the city is laid out, in consideration
oi the great benefits which they expect
ed to derive from the location of the city,
conveyed, in trust, to the Commiffioncrs.
for the ufeof the public, and for the pur
pose of eftablilhing the city, til* whole of
their refpeftive lands which are included
within the lines of the city, upon condition,
that, after retaining for the public the
ground of the ftrects, and any number of
squares that the Prfcfident may think pro
per for public improvements or other pub
lic uses, the lots shall be fairly and equal
ly divided between the public and the
refpeftive proprietors.
By this means the public had a polTef
fion of more than 10,000 lots, from which
funds are to be raised, to defray the ex
pence of the public buildings," (in addi
tion to i 92,000 dollars* given by the
Hates of Virginia and Maryland for that
purpose) and to eHeft such other things
as it may be incumbent npon the public to
do in the eity.
Between three and four thousand lots
have been fold by the commissioners, and
the average price at their public l'ales have
exceeded two hundred and forty dollars a
lot. The price of lots has already risen
very much, and a great increase of price
is still expeded, as the object comes to be
more inveiligated, and better understood.
After fuinifhing very atnple funds for
the accompli(hment of every objed in this
city, on the part of the public, a large
surplus of lots will remain the property
of the city, which hereafter may, and un
doubtedly will be lo applied,as todefray the
annual expences incident to the city ; and
the citizens, and their property, will he
forever free from a heavy tax, which is
unavoidable in other large cities.
Among the many advantages which
will be derived to this city over almost all
other large cities, from the circumitance of
its being originally designed for the capi
tal of a great nation, may be ranked, as
the foremofl ; the width of the llreets,
(none of which are less than ninety feet,
and from that to one hundred and sixty,)
and the attention which will be paid to le
velling or regulating the itreets upon a,
general principle, in the firft instance, in
such a manner as to avoid any future in
convenience to such buildings as may be e
rected in the early ellablifhment of the city,
and to give that declivity to them, in the
several parts of the city, whieh will readi
ly and efle&ually carry off all filth in the
common sewers. These circumtiances are
of the highest importance, as they affect
the health and the lives of th« inhabi
tants.
Besides the advantage which the city
of Washington will have, from its being
the feat of government of theUnitedStates,
from its being within a few miles of the
center of the territory of the United States,
from north to south, and nearly the center
of population, and from the immediate
commerce of the Potomack, it will receive
an iramefe benefit from its intercOurse
with the country Weft of the Allegany
mountains, through the Potomack, which
offers itfelf as the most natural, aad the
* Virginia 120,000, and -Maryland
72,000.wearefl 'channel of commercial intercoure
with that extensive and rich country.
At present, the land-carriage between
the navigable waters of the Mor.ongahila
(a fork, of the Ohio) and, the navigable
waters of the VotoniacH, is less than, 40
miles ; and a good Waggon road is open
between the t\v<s water:-.. Men of judg
ment 011 the iubject of inland navigation,
have examined the ground between the
hrancLics of the Potonwk, and
those of the Ohio, and have Ken decidedly
of opinion, that the iand-carriage between
the two places where boats rimy come to
each, can be reduced to fifteen miles; and
they have fcur.d nothing to convince thein,
that theft waters may not, hereafter, be
made ti>•commutncate with each other.
The lettltrs 011'(tie Ohio and M:!ifippi,
w ill of coiirfe carry their heavy produce to
a market down those rivers; but their re
turns will be mo ft natural through the Po
tomac's, for they cannot ascend the Wef
t -rn Waters, without great expsnce or
much lofsof time ; the current there being
so rapid, that a sharp boat with fix oars
can scarcely afcenct fifteen miles a day.
[to bs continued.]
To the Editor of the General Advertiser.
Sir,
I have observed in some of your late
pipers certain ftri&urcs on a speech of one
of the Members of Congress from Mas
sachusetts, which I consider both harsh
and unmerilted, and tending to prevent
that freedom of debate which has been so
wifely provided for
The writer's opinion and inferences are
by no means worthy of notice, otherwise
than as they fnew a difpolition to pervert
the truth, and abuse the liberty of the
press. That Member's character as a
friend to genuine liberty and good go
vernment, is too well eftabliihed to be af
fedled by such miftatements and scurrility,
as is contained in the paper of "Monday ;
neither is such a mode of writing calcu
lated to make a favorable imprifiion on
the minds of many of your readers.
Paris of a sentence, or even of a fpscch,
may be fp stated by designing partisans as
to appear very exceptionable, and this ii
believed to have been the cafe in the pre
sent instance ; because, independent of the
knowa principles of the member, some
people of character who were present,
declare they heard no expressions that
would bear the conftruttion which lias
been attempted.
Gracchus fays 'f he would be unfaith
ful to his country, to let such sentiments
pass unnoticed in thi3 he claims some
merit to himfelf, while he pays but a poor
compliment to his friends in Congress,
who let such expressions as he has stated,
pass without reprehension ; and to be a
ufefal watchman, he ought to pay mere
attention to his recitals.
For the Gazrtts of the United Srjrfs,
Mr. Fenno,
According to the " opinion" of a wri
ter in the General Advertiser, " on the
conduit that America ought to adopt in
future"—it appears that the wisdom of
this country would be evidenced in the
firft place, by throwing every thing into
confufion among ourftlves, and in the se
cond, by immediately plunging into a
war with all the world—our agents at home
and abroad are to be difmifTed—and all
the measures which have given prosperity
to our country, and secured that prospe
rity by peace and domestic tranquility, are
to be subverted and overturned. If this
is the way to preserve our name in exist
ence as a nation, if this is the way to ena
ble us to help our friends, preserve our
peace, our liberties, and our independence
—then the modern doctrines of volunteer
quacks in politics which run counter to the
experience of man in all past ages, ought
to prevail—ln vain have the people of A
merica fought for freedom, deliberated on
the best measures to secure the inestimable
jewel, and eftabliflied a just, wife and com
petent government as the only mean con
ducive to that object—if, the nature of
our species is inverted, and confufion and
every evil work is the only preparative to
peace liberty and fafety—the politics of
maniacifm will not prevail, for the parti
zans of diforganifati.m are not like Samp
son, willing to be crushed themselves in
the ruins they contemplate with so much
p'.eafure—Our Councils will not be influen
ced by hairbramed politicians who, refleft
itijr on the fortunes which have been accu
mulated in the convulsions of Europe, are
anxiously defiioiis of trying their hand in
tjai> happy retreat of -freedom and peace.
Y. Z.
From the Columbian Gazetteir.
OBSERVATIONS.
The coldelt day in December, 1789, in
this city, was the 20th of the month—
the Thermometer was 21 degrees. Fri
day miming hft being 10 1-2 degrees
colder. In Jan. 1790, the coldest day was
20 degrees —in February 9 degrees —in
March 6 degrees. By this the coldest day
in the winter of 1790, w?.» 41-2 degrees
colder than Friday morning last.
The coldest day in Philadelphia, in Jan.
1789, was 18 degrees—in February do. 7
degrees —in Jan. 1790, 12 degrees—in
Feb. do. 6 degrees—in March do. 3 deg.
in Dec. do. 6 decrredß
In Philadelphia, in Jan. 1791, 8 dfg". 1
.a Feb. do. 5 deg.—in March do. 2 deg.
From llie above remarks, being all I
could coll" ft, we may not ex peel to expe
rience but very little colder weather in the
course of this winter, than was experien
ced the latl week.
On the 2 & 24th ult. was held the exa
mination of the several fehools in the Tren
ton Academy. The scholars who had been
itudying Reading, Writing, Arithmetic
and Book-keeping, exhibited such proofs
of attention and improvement, as were very
fatisfa&ory to the trustees and visitors.
The Grammar school, under the care of
Mr. Whitefide, was examined in presence
of the Governor of the State, the Hon.
Isaac Smith, the Rev. Mr. Armftrongand
Samuel W. Stockton, Esq. who expreiTed
their approbation at the proficiency of the
(Indents, several of whom diftinguilhed
themselves for their progress in the ma
thematics and natural philosophy.
A number of the ihidenU of this aca
demy have been fitted, from time to time,
to enter the junior clals in Princeton col
lege, with credit to tliemfelves and their
tutors. Others have been qualified for
the mercantile and mechanical branches of
business, which are here particularly at
tended to—and all, whofc morals are un
impeached, and who have made fufficient
proficiency, are entitled to a certificate,
under the fcal of the corporation, setting
forth the branches of literature which they
have fuccefsfully studied.
Such is the healthfulnefs of the city of
Trenton, that not an instance of mortality
has happened since the firft establishment
of this acadcmy, among the many scho
lars who have ccme hither to putfu'e their
{tudies. Thi3 circumstance, added to the
eligibility of its situation, being on the post
and stage road from Philadelphia to New-
York, and the cheapncfs of boarding, ren
ders it a cfefirable place for persons at a
distance to fend their children for the ru
diments of their education.
An Observer
There arc at present about eighty scho
lars in the fevcral fchooli: the house is in
complete repair, and would accommodate
a much larger number with convenience.
As the schools arc under good regula
tions. and will be carefully attended to by
the trustees and visitors, it is hoped those
who may think proper to fend their chil
dren to this seminary will not be disap
pointed in their expectations.
For the Gazette of the Uhitfd St.ites.
To the SIEUR GENET, Minister
WHENCE is it, fir, that you alone,
among the diplomatic characters in America,,
have been felecled as the notorious object of
public animadversion ? Intercfting to vour
felf, as it i 3 to Americans, this question
Mr; Genet, demands your attention.
. G. BAKER.
New-York, 28th Dec. 1793.
TRENTON ACADEMY.
of Fiance.
In answer to this queltion, will you, in
the spirit of calumny and felf-admiration,
presume to fay, that the American press,
devoted to the cause of despotism, perse
cutes you a 9 the martyr of liberty ? Inftcad
of thus yielding to the fedu&ions of pas
sion, rather, fir, for once, render homage
to the simplicity of truth, and refledt whe
ther a more correct answer may not be
given ! Shall I mention one for your coii
fideration ? Yet deem it not lingular, that
a person unpra&ifed in the infidioufnels
of Courts, unversed in the sophistry of St.
Omers, and unambitious of rivaling you in
artinc;, fhou'id give an answer very differ
ent from yourfelf, an answer which is plain,
simple, palpable. You alone, among the
diplomatic characters in America, have noto
rioujly offended againjl diplomatic propriety.
Delegated, as French missionary, to the
constituted government of the American
Republic, your million, as relative to this
'government, was either a mission of peace,
or a mission of perfidy. What then has
been your conduct, as relative to the Ame
rican government ? Have not your pro
ceedings, instead of evincing a Minister 01
peace, branded you as the Apostle of dis
cord ? And was such the purpose of the
nation whom you claim to represent ? No !
fir, however zealous you may be to ca
lumniate the French nation by confound
ing them with yourfelf, we acquit them of
the charge : Never can we believe that
the republicans of France would appro
bate a million of perfidy. To do juitice
to the French people, we must then be
careful to difcrimiuate between them, and
yourfelf. And, making this discrimina
tion, we are constrained to regard some of
your proceedings, fir, as meriting no (light
reprehension.
Could we totally abftraft your diplo
matic character from your proceedings,
while you hold and abuse that character,
n-e might regard your language aa but the
intemperate effufions of a felf-admiring
fcioliil: And, in this abftrafted view, the
combination of fatuity and vanity, being
regarded a$ innocuous, might afford mat
ter of tranficnt mirth. But when, in abu
sing your diplomatic trust, you claim that
your language (hoidd be refpefted as tue
voice of France, the fubjeft instantly as
sumes a very different afpeft ; and your
published declarations, vhether resulting
from ignorar.ee, vanity, fawticifm, or per
fidy, become seriously interesting ty the
friends of true republicanism : For, whe
ther you betray the republican cause, from
ignorance, vanity, fanaticifm, or perfidy,
whether you betray it from want of wis
dom, or from want of honelty, ftil!, fir,
you injure the cause which you ought to
benefit, and which, notwithstanding its be
ing profaned by your profeffions of devo
tion, is precious and sacred to Americans.
" That you are not destitute of talent,"
ha 3 been already conceded in the address
which 1 presented to you, through the
Gazette, in conference of the letter, of
the 13th of August, which you wrote for
the press, and sent to the President. My
generosity, as one of the people, having made
vou thi3 concession while there appeared
some rOom for hoping that you would
liflen to the voice of inftruftion and reform,
although your own own conduct has since
reduced you, in point of character, to be
but a mcndicant pensioner on the charity
of, public opinion, yet, while I scorn to
despoil the beggar, I scorn to revoke my
generous concession. But left, from your
pronenefs to eulogize yourfelf, you should
abuse this concefiion to your own injury,
let me remind you, that, in kind, as well
as In degree, talents are various. And, as
" you are not destitute of talent," so nei
ther was an ancient rutcd incendiary, one
trait of whose character seems not altoge
ther inapplicable to yourfelf:—" Satis lo-
quent'ue, fapicnt'ht parum."
Considering that a person in your station
ought not to be so ignorant of classic lite
rature as you profefs to be of some of the
molt celebrated works on national law, al
though I do not question your profefied
ignorance, I now credit you as having the
ability to understand a fhoi t sentence from
,Sa!lu(t: I, accordingly, omit giving you
a version of this which I have just cited.
And, leaving it to your own moments of
temperate reflexion, if ever you have any,
I observe, that the charaAer at large may
ba worth your attention. You may find
it delineated by Salluft, in his history of
the Catalinarian war. And, while you
are meditating on this fubjeft, let me urge
you to reflect, that, however much or
however long you may have abused our
patience, yet the incendiary, who makes
profeflions of virtue in the cause of vice,
and boalts of patriotism for the purposes
of sedition, will not eventually find more
support in America than your prototype
found in Rome.
The inftaioufnefs of your profejjions, the
illegitimacy of your dodrines, the audacity of
yourpretenfioiis, have conspired to provoke
and juftify typographical ftri&ures. Ap
• pearing before the American public in the
novel and amphibious character of typo
graphical Minister, your claims to public
animadversion are various, urgent, and un
rivalled. Whether we contemplate you as
the foi-difant oracle of national law, as the
expositor of the American Constitution, as
the exotic guardian of the sovereign people
of the United States, as the public accuser
of their constituted authorities ; of whe
ther we contemplate vou as a diplomatic
Proteus transforming yourfelf into a mul
tiplicity of shapes, and adopting .such r*v,i
rious forms as you may think adapted t$
aid your machinations—whetheryou adopt
the form of epiitolary correspondence, di
plomatic communication, consular protes
tation, circular address to American com
mittees of beneficence, circular inftru&ions
to French consuls, or any other form which
anarchial zeal may suggest ; still, fir, we
find no cause to deny you the character of
which you seem (o ambitious, the charac
ter of an Apostle or Discord.
You may aff'eit a tremulons concern for
the Prefideiit, and, with the modesty pe
culiar to yourfelf, profefs to the public,
as in your letter to (jovemor Moultrie,
your " grief at feeing General Wajhington,
that celebrated hern cj liberty, accessible to
men whose schemes could only darken his glo
ry." But in vain may you expect that
such arts will delude the informed Ameri
cans. The weeping of the insidious cro
cadide deludes none but the ignorant.
If he has become the object of your pi.
ty, General Washington is fallen indeed.
Are you so vain, Sir, as to imagine, that
his, or his country's glory depends on you?
Learn then to know thyfelf; and be as
sured, that it is not the breath of Genet,
but the energy of truth, which swells the
trumpet of fame.
After considering, that, in your letter
of the 27th of October to the Secretary of
State, you have charged President Wash
ington with usurping power which the
constitution does not allow him ; when we
further observe, that, through your sub
altern Dannery yon profefs, to the Exe
cutive of Maffachufctts, an anxious fenft
bility left holWities Should interrupt " the
cver-deor fraternity ** between " two nati
ons yet JiJlers," and that >ou also at the
j fame time exhibit a manift-ftiJ ugair.ft our
National Executive ; the language offuch
communications excites, in the American
mind, at once, contempt and indignation.
Ate we to br duped, or terrified, from the
maintenance of our own internal sovereign
ty, by the insidious profeflions, or mena
ces of a diplomatic or consular di&ator ?
Will you, fir, fay, that there is danger
of hostilities between France and America?
If so, whence does this danger arise
Whence, but from functionaries who, irt»
trusted with affairs of France, abuse the
confidence of an high-spirited people ?—
Whence, but from such persons 33 your
felf ?
Mr. Genet! will you, while Minifler
of France, pretend to be ignorant, that
your Mailers have rcprefentedfedcralifm at
the evil genius of anarchy, of rebellion of
royalifm, as a monfttr threatening deduc
tion to the unity and indivisibility of the
Republic ? Did you t'uen, in ordering
Dannery to denounce the PreCdent, pur
fofe to excite in America the very spirit
which has been excited at Marseilles, at
Lyons, at Toulon ? Speak, Sir! what
was your purpose in that infidious'denunci
ation ?—What, but to divide and command
the American People ? Accordingly, the
moment of our national dismission, would
have been the moment of your congratu
lating yourfelf as Di&ator over America.
Not to particularise ail the insidious
communications which you have been ea
ger to publish, and without now remark
ing on the illegality of the do&rines which
they contain, the publications alieady no
ticed, efpeciallv those relating to the affair
of Duplaine, fufficiently brand you as the
Apostle of Discord. And, on reviewing
the conduct of our public fun&ionarieg, and
considering your various insinuations and
direst c harges again It them, the mind is
hnpreflcd with one concluding sentiment.
To be the first of warriors, and
yet to be accused for being the friend of
peace, is the peculiar honor of Walhing
ton ; an honor worthy the first func
tionary of the first republi.c in
the universe. Formanifefting himfelf
to be the vigilant friend of peace, as well
as the firm affertor of our national sover
eignty, he is honored by the approving
voice of his country, and has ftiared, with
other officers of our government, in your
calumnies, and in your honorable hatred.
ALFRED.
AMERICA.
JAMAICA, Nov. 9.
Un decided Engagement.
Extract of a letter wit. ten on board the
privateer brig Eagle, Captain Ogie
dated at Cape Nicliola Mole, October
28.
" Last Thii' fday noon, while in com
pany with the sloop Satan, Capt. Young,
V !we saw a veflel to windward, which </ter
alhort time appeared to be a (hip, & was
thought by Capt. Young, who was din
ing on board us to be the King, Grey. He
accordingly went on board lus own veflel,
and hoisted the private signal for that (hip
but (hortly afterwards hailed our captain,
and told him (he was a merchant veflel,
and we consequently kept for her till with
in mufquet (hot, tile Susan on her bow,
and we on her broadside.
" Capt. Young having fired a gun at
her, and hoisted Englify colours, the (hip
hoisted National colours, —we then hoist
ed ours and gave her a broadside, which
was warmly returned, when a very heavy
cannonade ensued, -and continued about an
hour and an half, at the end of which the
Susan bftre away-. • *
" About ten minutes afterwards, we
also, finding her too heavv, bore away,
and the {hip went in pursuit of the Susan,
a very dull faiior, with whom (he scon
came up, and pouring a very heavy (hower
of (hot, obliged her to strike.
" Two boats were dispatched on board
of Captain Young, and the (hip made af
ter us, and was coming up very faft,when
n (lioal obliged her to haul up, and gave
n9 Cjme advantage ; (lie was however, 2-
bout dtrik within mulket (hot of us, and
fired 40 or 50 bills at us, wliich did con
siderable damage, but the darkness en
crea'ing, (he fortunately loft fight of 11s.
" We now got fixed upon a rock, and
remained there, it blowing hard all the
time, and in momentary e<pe£lation of
being dashed to pieces, till half pa ft 11,
when- we got off, and immediately pro
ceeded" to this place to refit.
" Our fails, rigging, See. were great
ly damaged, and we received several (hot
in the hull, two or three between wind gnd
water ; one ball in particular went direct
ly thro' the magazine, and shattered a
barrel of poivder to pieces, but providen
tially did us no other injury.
" The ship had 18 long 12 and nine
pounderg, and 200 men. We loft but 1
man in the atlion."
NEW-YORK, January 1..
Bermuda, Nov- 29.
WE, the Matters of American veffcU
capfured by the different Bermudian pri
vateers on ourpaflage from the Weft In
dies, request it as a favor of you to pub
lith this our situation, as the moil speedy
method we have to make it known to our
owners and fellow-citizens, in cafe any of
our letters {hare the fame fate of all othert
that fall intp the privateers hands, viz.
I. Ship Robert, Weft, vet Tel and car
go condemned.
2. Schooner Fair Lady, of Philadel
phia, Lillibridge, the cargo condemned
011 the Oath of a bov.
3. Brig Phoebe of Philadelphia, Wi
liams, the cargo condemned.
4. Schooner York, of New Ybrk, 0'
Brien, libelled.
5. Schooner Betsey, of Ipfwich,Kinf
man, ditto.
6. Brig Sukey, of Charleston, Earl,
do.
7. Sloop Crisis, of New-Haven, Bill,
do.
8. Sloop Amelia, of Philadelphia,Wil
liamfon, having come in dismasted, and a
pass on board from a British port, on con
ditions of signing an indemnifying bond
to the owners of a privateer, and repair
ing all damages himfelf.
9. Sloop Polly, of Philadelphia, Smith
libelled.
10. Schooner Atalanta, of New-Lon.
cion, Skinner, do.
11. Schooner Willing Maid, Wallace,
Note. When we arrive at the Bermu
das, and after anchoring in the stream a
ftiort time, are boarded by a crew of Ber
mudiaris from the (hore.
1 ft. Where there are pafiengerson board
they order the baggage on deck, and open
all trunks, cases, or any package or bun
dle, beds, &c. that they do' find on board
said vessel, and take therefrom all books,
papers, money, watches, trinkets, pkte,
and cloathing in part, &c.
2d. They then proceed to featch them
perfonaHy, without discrimination of age
or sex.
3d. Then turn them on (hore to the
Commiflary of war, and procced to haul
the veflel to the wharf: they then com
mence unloading her, at their own discre
tion, starting, boring, breaking, and de
ftroyirig many things before them, at the
fame time turning the crew on (hore, and
enliftingthem on board their privateers.
Tlicv will not permit the mafic.', nor
any person belonging to the vefifel, to re
mind them of the deftru&ioi) of the said
veflel or her cargo ; but threaten destruc
tion to the mailer, which some have felt
the eSccts of on this island. Nay they
demand the mailer's money, difpoflefs him
of his veflel, and no provision made for
him. All this is done by the owners of
the privateers, not under the infpe&ion
o( the Marftial, and before any condem
nation takes place.
Therefore' we pray you will not neglect
to give this a speedy publication in your
papers ; in doing which you will oblige,
Dear Sirs,
In behalf of the whole,
Your very humble servants,
ROBERT LILLIBRIDGE,
JOHN EARLE,
Wm. WILLIAMSON,
JOHN SMITH,
M. MARTINEAU, Supercargo
of ths; schooner Fair Lady.
Signed in New York, 2#th Dec. 1793.
THOMAS O'BRYAN,
It appears by Mr. Rittenhoufe's obser
vations in Philadelphia, that, the fumrner
past, the Thermometer tea's at and above
80 deg. 26 days in Augufl and 9 in Sep
tember ; which makes 35 days in those
two months only. I have not seen any
ctferra. lens for May, June arid July lafl;
but probably the' heat was at and above
80 deg. eighty or ninety days in tlje
whole season : an instance without prece
dent in America.
Extract from the Quebec Gazette of the
12th December
Friday morning died the Hon. William
Smith, Efq; on; of his majjly't executive
council, fpeaier of the legiftative council,
and chief of the province of Lower
Canada.
Mr. Smith was eminently diflingtiijhed both
for theJtrengil of his mental faculties and the
extent of his acquired talents, and was a cha
racter of which there are few examples, poffef
ed of a tenacious memory, quick conception
and found judgment, great classical, hiflori
cal ami legal learning, and unwearied in his
application and attention to buflnefs, he was
in the executive government, in the senate, and
in his judicial capacity, a nan of the firjl a
bilities, a public fpeaher of the firjl rani, and
undeniably the greatefl law character that /!-
mtrica has produced.
To what he was in public he was equal in
private l*. where the excellence of his under
flanding appeared in the brilliancy of his con
versation and writings, and the goodness of
his heart in every injlance of his conduit to
wards his family, his friends and fociely—he
died revered by ihofe who had the pleasure of
his acquaintance, regretted by all, as a public
and irreparable loss —His remains were in
terred on Sunday, and were attended to the
g/tive by his royal highness Prince Edward
the htn. the members of the Legislative and
Executive C unci's, and of the House of As
sembly, the officers of Government civil and
mditary, the officers of the garris on, and the
tr.cfl refpeftable and numerousconcourfe of ci
tizens ever witnefjed on afimilar occasion.
PITTSBURGH, Dec. 28.
Extract of a letter from Fort Wa(hington
dated Nov. 14, 1793, to a gentleman
in this town.
" I received a letter a few days ago
from the Falls, informing me that an ex
pedition is there preparing againlt Louifi
ana,under the command of the well known
Gen. Clarke, who (fays my informant)
is appointed a major-general in the armies
of France, and commander in chief of
the French Revolutionary Legion on the
Mififiippi, &c. That a paymaster is actu
ally arrived with cash, and also some
French artillery officers, —40 odd boats on
a new conftru&ion are to be built at that
place, as soon as polfible—that blank com
miflions are feitt to the General to be fil
led at his pleasure—that the Legion is to
be 011 a life eftablilhment, the fame as in
France—that public plunder is to be re
linquished to the troops, and they are to
receive lands in the conquered country con
sonant to grade, and that after the war
they (hall not be liable to be called out of
the country, but are to garrison it.
BOSTON, Dec. 25,
The profpeft of peace, was the report
of yesterday. Although we could not
trace it to any fqurce to be relied on, we
lliall nevertheless give it as we heard it.—
It is, that the British packet had arrived
at Halifax, from England, and that letters
had been received at Halifax, by the pac
ket, from Brook Watson, Esq. Paymas
ter-General of the Duke of Yolk's army,
in the Netherlands, informing that the
National Convention of Fiance had named
Commiflioners to treat with the Combi
ned Powers as to the object of the com
bination and invasion of France, and what
might be the preliminaries on which a
treaty of pcace might be concluded ; that,
in consequence of the answer given, Mr.
Watson was of opinion that a peac would
take place in the spring. Something
about the surrender of Brest was also re
ported ; but treated as idle.
There was also a report that Corr.mif
fioners had left Brest, and had arrived in
England, for the purpose of agreeing on
the fj&rendcr of that port 0:1 the fame
co'ndttioiis with that of Toulon.
The packet is said to have left England
the 16th October.
December 26,
The veiTel which arrived at New-York
from Cadi/., we arir informed, was sent by
Mr. Humphreys, our ftmiiiler at Portu
gal. She was insured at 30 per cc.it, vcf
fel, cargo, and crew; and a dollar was
paid for every letter (he brought.
Mr. Humphreys, we likewise are in
formed, was on liis way, at the date of his
letter; to Mequinea, in the empire of Mo
roc£-..i» *-r*4r>r to effect if possible, a peace
■with the Algerines.
NEW-LONDON, Dee. 26,
IN every point of view, the present
crisis is highly interesting; it is devoutly
to be <wijhed, and the public voice is for
honorable Peace •uiith all the If arid.
" The ear is pain'd,
Tlie foul is sick with every day's report,
Of wrong and outrage with which this
earth is fill'd.
There is no fiefli in man's obdurate heart,
It dots not feel for man,
Lands interfered by a narrow frith,
Abhor each other. Mountains interposed,
Make enemies of nations who had else
Like kindred drops been mingled into one."
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 3.
APPOINTMENT.
Edmund Randolph, to be Secretary of
State, in the room of Thomas Jefferfon,
resigned the 3 1 ft. ult.
Extract of a letter from Baltimore.
" An American vessel Is just arrived
from Havre de Grace. Nothing has as yet
been published. It is however reported,
that every thing in France is in the heft
situation ; It is even said that Great Bri
tain and Pruflia have been detached from
the Combination of Powers, and that wa
gers have been laid refpefting a peace."
The firfl day of January was, among
the Romans, consecrated to Janus, by an
offering of a cake made with new meal,
and new fait, with new frankincenfe and
new wine. On this day, a beginning was
made of every intended work ; the con
suls took pofleffion of their office, and
with the flamens fprieftsj offered facrifi
ces and prayers for the prosperity of the
empire. All animosities were suspended,
and friends gave and received New-Year's
Gift. This practice of making presents
is still continued ; though the beji part of
the Roman customs, the fufpenfwn of all
animosities, seems to have fallen into disuse.
Jim. Minerva.
A lift of all the arrivals at the port of
Philadelphia, for the year 1793.
163 Ships, 288 Snows and Brigs, 599
Schooners and Sloops.
Clearances for the fame period.
143 Ships, 258 Snows and Brigs, 690
Schooners and Sloops.
Married at Trenton, Mr. George Ro
zell, to Mifis Sally AxFOßD,.both of
that place.
At Brunfwick, N.J. Elisha
Ayres, attorney at law of Morriftown, to
Miss Hannah Dennis, daughter of John
Dennis, Esq. of Brunfwick.
At New-York, Mr. John
Smith, merchant, to Mrs. Agness Wet
zell, eldest daughter of General William
Malcom, both of that city.
Died, at Baltimore, Mrs. Henrietta
Williamson, the amiable consort of
Mr. David Williamfon of that town, mer-
chant.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES
Friday Jim. 3, 1794
Tlie petition of Thomas Claxton, Af
f.ftant Door-Keeper, was vead a second
t;me—and provision ordered pursuant to
the prayer thereof, to be paid out of the
fund appropriated to defray iii<, contingent
expeiifes of the house.
Some other petitions were read refer
red.
The house then resolved itft'f into a
committee of the whole, Mr. Trumbull
in the chair, and took into coniideration
the Report of the Secretarv of State, re
lative to Foreign Commerce.
Mr. Madison, after £aaie inttfjduitsry
oblervations on the State of the Com
merce of the United States previous to
the adoption of the condition, and subse
quent to that period—read a number of
resolutions, the substance of which are
contained i 1 the Secretary's report: Their
principal oh; ct is to provide for an en
hancement of the Duties of Irapoft on
sundry goods, imported from countries,
with which the United States have no
Commercial Treaty ; also, on the Ton
nage of veflels of those Countries.'—These
resolutions being read the committee i\.{e
& reported progrelV-aud after considerable
debate on the question for an early, or dis
tant day to be afligned for their difcufiion,
the house determined on next Mondav
week.
Mr. W. Smith moved the following re
solution, viz. That the Secretary of the
treasury, be directed to report to this
house, a comparative view of the foreign
tonnage employed in the commerce of the
United States, in the years 179 c, 179 1,
and 1792.
2d. That he report the actual state of
the American tonnage employed in the
commerce of the United States, with fo
reign nations, for one year,—These reso
lutions were agreed to.
On motion, it was refolvcd, that the re
solutions brought forward by Mr. Madison,
fliould be printed.
Mr. Fitzfimons, laid a motion on the
table, for the appointment' of a committee,
to report a bill providing for the regula
tion of pilots, and the preservation of light
hoiifes, &c. in the bay of Delaware.
In committee of the whole, 011 the bill
providing for the renewal of loft; certify
cates of a certain description—Mr. Trum
bull in the chair.
The bill was read by the clerk—and
considered by paragraphs.—The firft pro
vides for the renewal of loan office certi
ficates and final certificates, which have
been dcilroyed by accident—after foma
objections to the principle of the bill, it
wa3 moved that this paragraph fliould be
ft ruck out.—This motion was negatived^— l
The committee then rose and reported
progress and the house adjourned.
FROM A tURH t ■> f'o\Dt A l
In confirmation of the aiTertion tint.
Great Britain made thetruce between the
Algerines and Portugal, it has been al
leged, that Great Britain is the guaran
tee of that truce. But it is known that
the latter fad comes from the fanuifource
as the former, a source which is not only
queftionable,but which'dei ived its informa
tion from doubtful authority; whereas the
intelligence of a contradictory nature 11 not
only more recent but comes from higher au
thority,& denies the agency of that nation
or the guarantee. The refufal of a convoy
is part of the fame story with the fonn;r,
and depends upon the fame authority. A
nother letter in town declares, that the
improper manner in which it was aflced was
the sole cause of any difficulty ; fee a let
ter published in this paper on Wednesday
last.
There are not wanting those wlio wish
to plunge this country into a war with
Great Britain. Exaggerations and mis
representations will be ufeful weapons in
their hands ; but the calm and the candid
require fa&s well authenticated before
they form opinions.
PRICE of. STOCKS.
Philadelphia, January 2, 1794.
6 per cents, 17/9 to I oa.
3 ditto, 9/10 to io/".
Deferred, 10/9 to rcw/.
U. S. Bank, 10 per cent, advanc?.
N. A. ditto, 20 ditto ditto.
Pennsylvania do. 5 ditto ditto.
tSjF A meeting of the Stockholders of
the Bank of the United States, rdiding in
this city, is to be held, by adjournment,
at the City Tavern, this Evening, at fix
o'clock. January 3.Jufl Imparted,
From Loudon, Duxlin and Gusaorr,
A d ii**' opening for 'ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,'
At No. 118, Market Jlreet,
A and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
which are the following
NEW Animal flegifterfor 1792
European Magazine for the fti ft fix
months of 1 793
Gibbdhs decline and fall of the Roman"Rmpire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vo ' s '
Pj'ieftlv on matter and ipirit
on christianity
Difnev's life of J>*. Jortin
D'Aiiyilfe's ancient geography
Memoir* rf Guy Joli
Variety, a collt&ion of elTays
King of Prclfia's works
Calm obierver—by Mackintosh
ancient and modern Europe
I-anghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
oapgnler and BriiTon's voyage
Kochon's voyage to Madagalc -f
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerusalem delivered
Sirellie'S translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Bntfon abridged
History of bird':
Philips's history of iuTaud navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols-
Whi taker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
I inlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudlbn's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kifies of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Travels
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immarerialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's-life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier'g desCription of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on pol tical justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vo^s *
Helvetius on man
Kalmes's sketches of the history
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's di&ionaiy
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Pveveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. &: Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
"NVanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruffia,Poland,See.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Kabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motlierby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the- practice of mid-
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
NScholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia/Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Hallei's physiology
Spalanzane's diflertations
London practice of physic
Bell's ftirgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
Gj" Terms of Subscription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of persons
who reside at a diflance from the city, to be
twelve months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advertifemcnts of onefquare, or less, in
fertedfour times for One Dollar-—once, for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line, and Subscrip
tions, -will be gratefully received at the OJice
in South Fourth-Jlred, Jive doors north of the
Indian Shieen.
A New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be lold by
R. A IT KEN,
No. 22, MarketJireety
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philadelphia, for promoting Ufeful
Knowledge, Vol. 3. Price 20Jin hards
(J3* The fubferibers are requested to call
as above directed for the 3d vol. where may
be had, complete setts uniformly printed.
Contents of Vol.
i. An eflay on those enquiries in Natural Phi
losophy, which at prefeut aremoft benefici
al to the Unitttd States of North America.
Dr. Nicholas Collin >
3. Conje<shires concerning the formation of
the earth, &c. Dr. ft. Franklin.
3. A new and curious theory of Light and
Heat. Dr. B. Franklin.
4. Defcript on of the process to be observed
in maki*"» large fheetsof paper in the Chi
inrft manner, with one linooth furface.
Dr. B. Franklin.
5. Queries and conje&ures relative to Mag
notifm, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
6. Explanation of a singular phenomenon, firft
pbferved by Dr Franklin, and not fatisfac
torily accounted for. Mr. R. Talttrjon.
7. An account of an Earthy Substance found
near the faljit r*f Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls ; together with
some remarks on the Falls.
Robert M'CauJfirij As. D.
8. Observations 011 the probabilities of the
duration of Human Life, and the progress
of population, in the United States of Ame
rica. William Barton\ EJq.
9. A letter containing observations made at
Lake Erie, on that lingular phenomenon,
by feainen termed looming.
Andrew Ellicot EJq.
10. An Account of the Sugar Maple-Tree
of the United States, and of the methods
of obtaining Sugar from it, together with
observations upon the advantages both pub
lic and private of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rujh, M.D.
11. Memoir on the use of the Thermometer
in discovering Banks, Soundings, See.
Jonathan Williams, EJq.
12. An Account of the most eife&ual means
of preventing the deleterious consequences
of the bite of the Crotalus Horridus, or Rat
tle Snake. Benjamin Smith Barlon y M. D.
13. Magnetic Obiervations, made at the Uni
versity of Cambridge, (Muflachufetts.)
Br. S. Willia.ms.
14. Accurate determination of the right as
cension and declination of Bootes, and the
Pole Star. Andrew Ellicott, Esq.
15. Account of several Houses in Philadelphia,
struck with Lightning, on June 7th, 1789
David Rittenhoilfig % Esq.
16. An Account of the efle&s of a stroke of
Lightning on a House furnlfiied with two
Conductors. David RitfcnhouJc t and Francis
Hupkin[on> Efqrs.
17. Experiment* and Observations on Evapo
ration in cold Air. C. M. D.
18. Postscript to Mr. Barton's Letter, to
Dr. Rittenhoufe, of the 17, of March, 1791.
19. New Notation of Mafic.
Mr. R. Patter Jan.
20. Observations on the Theorv of Water
Mills, See. H\ Waring,
19. Agronomical Observations.
David Rittcnhoufc.
20. A letter .relative to a method of finding
the futn of the several powers of the Sines,
&-" c * David RitUn/ioufg t EJ*q.
21. Index Florae Lancaftrienfis.
Henrico Muhltnberg, D. D.
22. Investigation of the power of Dr. Bar
ker's Mill, as improved by James Rumfey,
with a defeription of the mill. IV. Waring.
23. A Thermometrical Journal of the tem
perature of the Atmosphere and Sea, on a
voyage to and from Oporto, with explana
tory observations thereon.
Jonathan Williams, iff.
24- First memoir of observations on the plants
denominated Cryptogamick.
M. De Beauvois.
25. A letter, containing observations on the
ancient works of Art, the Native Inhabi
tants, See. of the Western Country.
Major Jonathan Hurt.
26. An account of some of the principal dies
employed by the North American Indians.
Extracted by the late Mr. Hugh Martin.
27. An account of the beneficial effects of the
Caftia Chamaecrifta in recruiting worn-out
lands, and in enriching such as are natural
ly poor; together with a botanical descrip
tion of the plant.
James Greenway of Virginia.
28. An account of a hill on the borders of
North Carolina, supposed to have been a
volcano, in a letter from a Continental of
ficer, to Dr. J. Greemvay, Virginia.
29. An Account of apoifonous plant, grow
ing fpontaneon/ly in the southern part of
Virginia. Extracted from a paper by
Dr. James Green wax, Virginia.
30. Description of a Machine for measuring a
fbip's way. Francis Htpiinfon, Esq.
31. An Inquiry into the question, whether the
Apis IVlellifica, or true Honey-Bee, is a na
tive of America. Benjamin Smith B<uton,M.D.
32. An Account of a Comet.
David Rittenhovfe, EJq.
33- Cadmus or a Treatifeon the Elements of
Written Language, illustrating, by a Philo
sophical division of Speech, the power of
each character, thereby mutually fixing the
Orthography and Orthoepy. With an Eflav
011 the mode of teaching the Deaf, or Suxd
and coi.foquently Dumb, to fpssk, by Wrri.
Thornton, M. D. Honored with tM: Ma
gellanic Gold Medal, by the PMlofophical
Society, in December, 1792. N. B.
Cadmus is printed in a fine 8. vol. and fold
by the Publilher hereof.
34. Obfcrvatioiu on the Theory, of Water-
Mills. fr. Waring.
35. An Improvement on Metalic Conductors
or Lightning-rod!!. Mr. Robert Palltrjon.
Honored with the Magellanic Premium, by
an Award of the Society in Dcceinber 1792.
36. An easy and expeditious method of dis
sipating the noxious Vapour commonly
found in Wells and other subterraneous
places. Ebcnczcr RobinJon y Ffq.
37. A method of draining Ponds in' level
7# Hig&ins
-38. Observations on the severity of the win
grounds.
ter, 1779, 1780. Jtev. Matthew Wilson•
39* A Defeription of a new Standard for
Weights and Measures; io a letter from
Mr. John Cooke, of Tipperary in Ireland.
40, Defeription of a Sprinc-Block., designed
to aflift a Vefiel in failing* Francis Hopkin
fonr Esq. Honored with the Magellanic
Gold Medal, by an Award of the Society
in December 1790.
December 20.
ACOLLECTKJN OF
Valuable BOOKS,
In sundry Language*, and on various Subjects,
Coniilting chiefly of" the mod recent,
correct, and elegant
LONDON EDITIONS,
Neatly bound and lettered.
Alio, a variety of
Stationary,
FOR S/LEBY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Chefnut-ftreet.
December 13,
ALL persons having any demand against
the Estate and Effe&s of Mrs. MARY
SINDREY, widow, late of Frankford, Ox
ford townftiip, in the State of Pennsylvania,
deceased; are desired to produce their ac
counts to Jacob Lesher and William Creed,
(in Frankford, atorefaid,) Excpntors and Ad
ministrators of the above m order for settle
ment. And whoever is indebted to said Es
tate, See. are requeued to make payment to
the afore fa id Adminiltrators, on or before the
16th of March, 1794? or they will be dealt
with according to law.
Frankford, Dec. 16.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subfcribtr intending to confine himfelf
entirely to ihe PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b<gs leave to of.
fer his Cervices to his iriends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may pleafc
to favor him with their hufinefs, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the utracfjl fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will he iliidly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
ADVERTISEMENT,
New-Jersey, >T> Y virtue of a Writ to me
SutTex County. IT. ) X) direttcd, iflued out of
the High Court ot Chancery of New-Jtrfey, at
the suit of William Shipley againll John M:ng
and otlieis; I shall txpofe to sale at Public Ven
due, on the sixth day of February next, between
the hours of Twelve and Five in the Alteraron
o? the fame day, on the Premifis, the followiug
described Tract of Land, with its appurtenance*,
situate in the Township of Oxford and County
of Suffcx, beginning at a Chefnut Oak Tree, cor
ner of Daniel Cox's land, and finding in the
line of a former fuivey made to Thomas Stevcn
fon, being marked with the Utter B. and theme
extending along Coxc's line (firftj south fifty de
grees weft fifty-fite chains and feventy-five links
to a Black Oak Treecorner of Joseph Shippeu's
land (second) south nine degrees and fifteen mi
nutes, weft ninety chains and sixty five links U)
a forked White Oak Tree, marked with the let
ters Jt and B another of the-faid Shippen's cor
ners (third) thence north eighty degrees, east one
hundred and forty-fivt chains, to a post on the
southerly fide of Paquaoftc-RWer, being alio a
corner of John Reading's land (fourth) thence
north thirty-nine degices weft, one hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place of beginning,
containing nine hundred and thirty acres with
the usual allowance for roads and high ways—
The fame Premises are within -eight miles of the
River Delaware, and there is thereon a conveni
ent Grift Mill wtfh two pair of Stones—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fuffceient ftrcam of
water for thetr use—a Dwelling House", Store
Houft, and several small buiidings.
MARK THOMPSON, Sheriff.
Dated 2sd day of July, 1793.
To be Sold,
AT PRIVATE SALE,
A Valuable Lot of 16
Acres of LAND, lying on the great road lead
ing fioin Piinceton to Trenton, i | miles from
Princeton; with a tan-yard, bark-house, beam
houfe and currying-fhop, a never failing (beam
of water running through the fame ; a good
dweJling-houfe, with an entry and two rooms
on the lowerfloor, and three on the upper floor;
a kitchcn adjoining, with a cellar under the
whole, and a well of water at the door; also,
170 bearing apple-trees, and two or three acres
of watcied meadow. There will be an indif
putabletitle given- Any perlon inclining to
puichafe, may know the terms of lale by ap
plying to the Subscriber on the premifrs.
MATTHEW CLARKE,
September 1793,
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
BooKfeUer, at the Stone House, iu Second
' street Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Of Arts, Sciences, and Miscellaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are digejicd into the form of
Diftinft Treaties or Systems :
THIS volume contains principles of Levels,
Liberty, Doctrine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
don, Longitude, Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illultrated with Twen-
TY TWO COPPERPLATES.
As a number of families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
areretuined. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the subscribers to cell or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
possible.
The trnth volume of the
now presented te the public; but as it makes
its appearance in an impcrfeft state, some ac
count of the reason of that imperfection should
be given. On the Bth of September last, the
Publisher had the misfortune of having his
Printvng-Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among ether articles, the nouREJ, with
which he was printing the tables or to
oarithms, belonging to the present volume,,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not b» immediately
obtained, he was under the neceflity of pub
lifting the volume without the e tables; but
hopes he (hall be able to publilh thein with the
next volume, which is now in considerable for-
eocl2w.
wardneft.
The Publilher embrace! this opportunity of
expressing his grateful acknowledgment* to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa•
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time lie takes the li
berty of representing 10 filth of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necessity of
punctuality, botli in taking up ihe volumes as
early as poiTib!e after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the fub
feribers having got only one, two, three, &t.
volumes, and several volumes remain unpmb.
Tlius the work hangs in all its different (lager
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles vnpmd lays the Publilher ander
very serious emharislTnient, and deprives him
of the life of many Thousands "f Dollars which
at this time would be of very elfential fervlce.
For tbefe reasons the Pubiillier finds himfelf
under the necessity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered hut only to those wh®
take and pay to the time of publication.
t&ftf.
December 10.
Philadelphia, Nov. 21, 1703.
The Stockholders ofthe
BANK of the UNITED STATES, are hereby
informed, that according to the (latuteof ineor»
poration, a General Election for Twenty-five
Direftorj, will be held at the Bank of the Uni
ted States, in the City of Philadelphia, on Mon
day the 6:h of January next, at ten o'clock in
the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh fcftion of the
bye-laws, the Stockholders of the said are
hereby notified, to alleinble in general meeting,
at the fame place, on Tuesday the 7th day o£
January next, at five o'clock in the t veiling.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
SECOND Fundamental Aiticle—Not more
than three-fourths of the Dire&ors in office, ex
clufivc of the President, (hall be eligible for the
next lucceeding year : But the Director, who
fhaJi be President at the rime of an cle&ion, may
alw ayt be re-elc&cd.
At a meeting of the D:reftors of the Infurancc
Company of North America, Not. 95, 1793.
Rtfoked,
THAT no transfer of stock be made on the
books of this office between the 15th day
of June and the firft Monday in July, and be
tween the 15th day of December and the fiilk
Monday of January following, in each year.
Exufl from ihc minutei,
F.bf.nezer Hazard, Secreiarv.
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on .which th,e Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
December 16,
Cj" Gentlemen, in paffejjion of Sulfcription
papers for this Gazette, are requejbed to
transmit them to the Editor's Office.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed sy JOHN FENNO, No.
South Fyurth-Street.
(ep 4 wj
Br truiCN
fiawtij.
mw&f to 6 Jan.
TO BE SOLD,
Enquire of the Editor,