EVE N IN G AD V E R T I S E R.
"" i No. 120 of Vol. V.] Fiu DAY, May 2, 1794. ' . [Whole No. 51 6.J
Tuft Imported,
I„ At Ship Apollo, Cat*. Fitzpatnck,
frctn Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
Gin in pipes*
r Afw Holland Ducky
Ditto Qznabwge,
JZtdLvtd Shtet^>%>
and Mug',™'
rioits , r zes.
Sheathing Pap'r,
Swedes iron, fqrare and flat bars,
J//3, r — Htbbaiid, \o. 4"
anJ Oakum, r dc.y c.
FOR. SALS
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
«77„ n'^nx-rmniienedShip is f" r &u»—
Co (rddapplication be mad* within a few days ;
a: Mr-wife Jhe wi'd-taie freight for Amfler-
C- l. V. J t c
M ireh i, 1794* d
To be Let,
1 for Merchants Covfitiig Houfts or Public
Offices, \
Two brick 3 story Houses,
|IAVING 6io'»THi it\e»ob, wi'h fire place s
-b, i le •arrets, fiturte on ihe south wcllerly.lid«
rvt Dock (Ivret, between Pear and '.Vjluut
§0 *>ts. E»Cm« r *
benjamin w. morris.
Amil 11 : , tuthßmf
T.: artftngfro-n t e following pitbli
-1 •.ot'.ati are far t/x benefit of the Poor.
Jt> I publiflsedt printed by R. Aitken and
1 V>c, and fold by J. Crukihank, W. Young
If. Dobfon, and the other Booksellers,
MINUTES
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Arrp Ointed on Me i 4-» September 1793
V c Cit'tcns of FmlaJilp'ma, the Northern
Jj.fcsrtW* and the P ftriet of Southwark,
' W to attend toandalteviattf the tutfen.ig* »i
the atSi&ed with the .Malignant Fever,pre
valent, in the City arUT it< vicinity.
V/ITH AN APPEND IX,
CONTAINING
A lift oi* perfmis admitted into the Hofpi
tti ae Bufli hill, flirwing the times of their
admtilftim, death and discharge.
Niinber of Honfcs,' Deaths, &c. in the
rc!pe tlivt streets, alleys, and courts in the
ii Philadelphia, Northern Liberties, and
Diftritfi of Soutbwark.
A Tift of" ihe Interments in the Burial
groi! nds in tlie city of Philadelphia, Nortnejn
l»i >t [ties, and Dftrift of Sauthwark, with a
metaorn.ogical account of the weather.
A. iu nm iry of donations in calh and provi
fip.ic, rrceived from fupdiy p-rlon- and pla
ces, for the us• of the poor and affl'Ct d.
Apii'2- d^w
For Sale or Charter,
ilC^oW,
(An American bottom)
John Moore, Majier.
IS a flout good velli'l, about two years old,
burthen 23 1 ton?, iias only made three voy
ages, and may befent to sea at a small ex
pence. She maybe seen at Vine-ftveet wharf,
and the terms marlie known bv appj ; eati'n to
WHARTONLEWIS
' Mar-h 21. dtf
For Amsterdam,
The new fa'ft-failiiig, copper
' f , bottomed SITfP
ADRIANA,
K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or pafiage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
hoard it Walnut dreet wharf, or to
TUOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794 dtf
For Norfolk & Fredsrtcksburgh,
SALLY,
John Earl, Mailer.
A Haunch good veflel, will fail in a few
days. For freight or p ffage, apply to the
mailer on board at Chefnut street wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONT d SON.
March 31. dtf
%
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Pettrfburg in Russia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hem|,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK, . |
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. S3, Walnut-street.
March 4,1794- diw.ita.wtf
F OR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBES.,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
superior quality in pipes, imported in the fliip
Wilnington.
OI.D SHERRY WINE of the firft quality
ill quarter calks, imported in the brig Nancy
capt. Gwin, from Cfidiz.
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs ol
RAISINS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERiFFE WINES,in pipes
hhds-and quarter calks, imported in thi ihip
Tnomas, capt. Skinner.
A few quarter calk? of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who has also, just arrived and for sale
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lijbon Salt.
A quantity of empty BAGS for sale.
April 5. wfesim.
The following Certifi
cate ot the funded thr< e per Cent Stock, of the
Bornlbc Debt of the United Sta.es II Hiding on
the books of the Treasury of th. laid Un'U-d
States, in the names of Donnald and Burton of
London, merchant!, and fjgncd by Joseph
N suife, Rcgifter ol said Ti <ury, to wit
No. 5476, dated 34th August 1792 for 2959
dollars and 53 cents *as iranfmitied from Lon
don hi the Ihip Pete., Paul Huflev, matter,
bonnd for New York, »iid haa been 1.15t.-— •
The Subfcnber intending to apply to the Trea.
fury of the United States to have the fame re.
newed , defites all persons who are interettcd in
the f.iid certificate, to make their objections
thereto, if any they have.
Francis Macy.
Philid. March 27. d6w
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. nB,
Maiket-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery,
Drtjgned to exhibit in a new point ot view
its effcifcts on morals, induflry, and the peace of
focitty. Some facts ami calculations are offered
to prove the labor of Jrttmitit to be much more
productive than that ot Jlaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the, fruits of their own
laboi ; and hence the n cellary conclusion, that
ilavery is impolitic d% well is unjtijl.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
Fehrua r y 1,5. «
"Excellent CLARET,
la' hoglbeads and m cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine j
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hop,fheads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front Ureet.
Jan. 2, 1794.
The Ground Plan
City and '
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN MOM ACTUAL SURVEY.
IT is with pleasure that the publifaer has to
inform his fub/cribets and the public~in gene,
rat, that the plate is now under the hands ot
the engraver, and in greater forwardnefs than
was at firft contemplated. At the fame time
he begs leave to remind them, that fubferip
tion papers are still open at most of the noted
book-stores in the city ; and that he hopes
from the whole of them to be enabled to form
such a refpeftable catalogue of names, as will
do a credit to the work, as well as afford a
raafonable encouragement to the undert ke--
Those who are delirotisof further informa
tion are tequefted to call on
Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, Market street.
April 14. ui&thtf
Just Publiftied,
In one liandfome volume, nmo. Price 5s
AND FOR. SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD v i
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Second
Strc't,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Corrected eind Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
jD. D.
ProfefTor of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
of Nature, and of Ecclesiastical History ;
and Minister of cl*eEnglifh Chuich at U
trecbt.
Aliquid Temper ad communem utilitatem af
fcientlum. Cicero.
The Firjl American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality, if right
ly understood, is the onjy bafts 011 which
unverfal jultice, sacred older, and perfect
freedom, can be fr mly built, and permanent
ly secured. The vewof it exhibited in this
essay, at the fame time that it represses the
infolcuce of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages of oppression ; confirms, 'n the
most forcible manner, the neceJTity ol fubor-
Hination, and the just demands of law tul au
thority. So far indeed, from loofeuiug the
bands of fbciety, that it maintains in violate,
every natural and every civil diftindtion,
draws;more closely every locial tie, unites in
one harmonious and juftlv proportioned sys
tem, antl brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of hnman na
ture, of reciprocal obit ation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18 tu&ftf
Treasury Department,
Revenue Office, Aptil 19, 1794*
NQTU E is tieieby g>v ui t proposals
wil. be received at the office of t«ie Commif
fiorier of the Revenue until the sixth of May
ne*t inclulively, for the supply of all R -
tfclttraNd&fejCM*' lll ri=4u_ .-d iluxing the cur
rent year, at the city of Philadelphia, for
the reciuiting fervics. Jfe,
The rations to be furnifhed are to consist
of the following a'tides, viz
One pound of b r ead 6r nonr,
One pound of heel, o. 3 40l a pound porlt
Halt a gill of rum, brand or wh.fky I
One quarto) faljt,
Two quart* vinegar £ per iQO ratjons
Two pound"? Foap I
On- pound candles J
JUST PUBLISHED, "
B Y
THOMAS DOBSON,
liookfeller, at the Stone House in SecondJlreet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI of
ENCYCLOPEDIA,
or A
Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, aud Miftel
, laneous Literature,
ON a plan euti ely new j by which the dif
ferent fcie ices and arts are digested into the
form of diftinft treatises or fyttems. This
volum contains the articles, medals, medi
cine, metallurgy, metaphysics, meth dlfts,
Mexic., microscope, midwifry, and a great
varistyo: biographical and miscellaneous ar
ticlesj illustrated with nineteen copperplates.
j fT The rabies of logarithms. &c. which
were d. ficient in the tenth volume, are fwb
joined to this.
Eleven volume* of this work are now pub
liihiid, and the Xllth is in lome forwardnels.
"O the firftof September, 1792, the price I
offubfeription wasjner afed T£N dollars on J
all etts not taken before that t me. The fub
fcrmtiOn isftill • ope# on ftbfe terms, and it
1 remain by the firft of July ne*r,the
pr ce v/ill be raised TEN dollars on
any c »pies which may be fubferibed lor alter
that period.
*,* As many of the fubferibers have taken
only two, three or four, See. volumes, they are
> eariieftly requested to take up and pay for the
- , remaining volumes, as it becomes.difficult to
f complete the setts, and the publilher does not
i hold himfelf bouud 11 make up any setts after
; of ju:»next. _
i Penrifylvania Hofp.tal,
s 4th Month, j'tft 1794
; The Contributors are defifed
J attend the Election, to be held at the
r H isrtTAt, on the sth day of the sth Month
n.xt,at 3 o'clock in the afternoon j to choose
twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for
t e enfnirrg ye;ir:
My order of a board of Managers.
Samuel Coctfe's, clerk.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, Feb. 21.
The fleet aflembled at Spithead, under
Lord Howe, amounted to upwards of 106
fail. Sixty of which, were fliips of the
line. Some French frigates had been crui
sing in the Channel, and taken a number
of vefiels. Nine French Eaft-Indiman,
under convoy of two frigates, were arrived
at L' Orient.
By the last accounts from Paris, we learfii,
tjiat the Convention has decreed, " that fta
very lhall be abolilhed in all the French if«
lands." This, they fay, will be a death blow
to Pitt.
On the 4th inft. the National Convention
decreed, that the colony of St. Domingo
foould be represented in the aflembly. On
that day three deputies came to take their
feats, viz. a negro, a mulatto, and a white.
They were greatly applauded and received
the fraternal embrace of Vadier the President.
This scene was accompanied by the reitera
ted cries vise l'egalite ! The negroes of St.
Domingo have sworn to extirpate the Eng
lish from that Island. On the Bth several %
people of colour acknowledged their grati
tude to the Convention for having given li
berty to their brethren.
March 4.
In the opinion of a certain learned
writer, the present French government is
likely to end in a military Republic, of v
which Paris is to be the center, with the
other departments of the kingdom as its
circumference, and under its controuL—
In that cafe, adds he, let Europe trem
ble; depopulation and diminution of in
ternal resource will then rather stimulate
than impede conquest, as they did in an
cient Rome, which conquered the world
during the most rapid d.cline of the po
pulation and of the resources of Italy. *
March 8.
It has been said, that the ft ate of ,
France is industriously mifrcprefented on
this tide the water,to anfwei a purpose,&
that only in Paris a temporary ir.conve
nience prevails, on account <ff butcher'*
meat, while the departments labor under
no such inconvenience; now on the au
thority of the Paris Papers, it is said
that the distress appears to be every where
much the fame. We (hould but tire th«
patience of our readers, in translating the
numerous complaints on this head, which
pour out into the capital daily.
In every part of the country, the Cluba
are engaged solely in deviling mean 3 tt>
remedy the evil.
HOUSE OF LORDS.
February 14.
Lord Moira's Expedition.
The Earl of Moira, rose to take no
tice of some observations that had been
thrown out by an honorable gentleman,
Major Maitland, in another house, on the
expedition which he had the honor to com
mand. His Lordship explained at some
length, the general outlines of the expedi
tion, the views of his Majesty's Ministers,
and the communications which had taken
place with the Royalists 011 the fut>je<s.
He had been sent for, he said by his Ma»
Alley's Ministers, on the 17th of Ofto-
Eejj, and informed by them, of the fuc
#ith which it was intended the Roy
alists should be furniihed. He did not he
sitate to undertake the expedition propos
ed, nor that responsibility which he consi
dered as attached to it. The Royalists
had demanded a certain force, to co-ope
rate with therti, and his Majesty's Minis
ters had appointed a much greater force
than they had requested ; It only remain
ed that a junction (hould be fiied : and
before that could be effe&ed, some fignah
were agreed upon, and some frigates sens
to repeat those signal?; but they were
not av>fwered by the Royalists. On the
10th of November, some persons were
sent to concert measures with them, and*
different spot for landing Was fixed upon.
—The Royalists had required artillery
men, as they had scarce any one who
under flood the use of cannon. I lifLwJr
/hip had represented to his Majesty's Mio»I ers, who had entrusted him with a dif
retionary powjr on this expedition, the
necessity of bringing (pme persons from
rlandert, who were acquainted with the
management of artillery; and as he hop
ped to have formed an immediate junction
with the Royalitls, he had appointed
two French officers, of great merit, his
aids-cl u camp, and another as hiss fecietary;
because he conceived, the junction once
made," Ins little army was not to be grafted
into that of the Royalifis, but was to
form a part of that which he had the
honor to command. In these circumstan
ces, he thought himfelf juftilicd in making
the appointments on which such animad
versions had been made.
He concluded by faying, that he took
the whole responsibility upon himfelf, be
cause his Majeily's Ministers had fully
approved of the appointment he had re
commended to them.
Lord Lauderdale rose to juftify the
notice that had been taken in the House of
Commons of these Had
minilters been as candid and explicit as
the Noble Lord, it would have been deemed
fatiffadtory ; but they had observed a fulien
silence, and had not even deigned to give
the least explanation on the fubjeft.
Lord Greenville wished all responsibility
for the measures adopted by Earl Moir'a
to attach an adminiiti ation, who, he con
tended, had acted legally and conlHtution
ally.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Tuesd/y,February 4.
The white colonist, admitted yesterday to
represent St. Domingo, drew the plflure of
the aftnai li ua ion of t lat iflar.d. After
•Numerating those par ticulars which are al
ready own, he pi ucei den to llate the btlrn
. * Cape Francci', ,md the expuifion of Gal
oot, trie of Dtimourier, who in con
junction with the rich inhabitants,
to deliver up the iflmd to the' Engiifli and
Spaniards He stated, that the black, with
the patriots, had lought agamft thole traitor*•
and that the civil crnnnnffiouers, to reward
rne blacks, had proclaimed tne liberty <.f the
(laves thr .ughout the island >. that the blacks
had ftvorn perpetual allegiance to France'
and the mod vigorous refinance to rhe
1. >'' t!lev ">ouW dare lope etrate into tho
interior parts of the island.
_ The .rator concluded Iris repor tbv prov !
lng, that the rich planters, the ex-noble
emigrarts and nth merchant of St. Dominim'
*ad projeftcd to give up that island to tile
Engl (h— Applanfe.
The National Convention then naffed the
following important decree -
Tt.f National convention decrees. thatfla
very is abolilbed i„ all the French colonies'
It decrees nr cunfequer.ce, tliat a]) the ; M
habitant, ot tire French colonics, of whatever
colour, are French citizens, and from this
day forward enjoy all those nghts which are
secured to then, by tic- declaration of rights
and by the Conftrtution.
Aneg ets who heard this decree, fainted
away, and did not recover but by the noise of
acclamations, and the (houts of / a Refab
hquc. — Her lenfibijty was ordered to be re
corded in trie minutes of the etav.
Danton, after having declared that this de
crce would kill Pi n, moved that the mode
of Its execution be referred to the committee
of publrc welfare —Adopted.
Amo'ion for the annulment of the dtcree
of a-, reft against PoKerel andSanthonax who
aie authors of the proclamation of Aueu'ft 2Q
grantmgliberty to alj the blacks ofSt- Dom.n
go, was referred to thsfame committee.
W iDNEiDAY February
The committee of public welfare presented
the digest of the decree for abolrlhirg fl av erv
in the colonies.
Burrere, in the name of the committee of
public welfare, having announced that the
army Of the North had put itfclf into motion
and made v.story the order of the dav, pro-
P° Gc,;eral P'chegru to replace jourdain.
„ Decreed.
Friday, February 7.
A Black deputy ascended the tribune, lo
denounce several fefcret assemblies of colonist,
wholedefign it was toreftore and cement slaves!
Saturdoy February 8. A
Baudot, ir-r the name of the
war and hnanceprefented a long dcr* e WT
fpea.ng the allowances of meat to beTra'nted
to rhe ann\. 0
The Convention decreed it as a principle,
that everymthtary man, whatever his rank
II f all . owed 'he fame ration that
is allowed to all others.
Sunday February o.
One of the Secretaries read a letter, dated
Ttulon, January 26, of which the following
is an extract : 6
"Lalt riight the bird weathe- drove into
cur koad a two matted Englifli ihi P , laden
wrth ceftee and sugar- A republ eau sloop
got „p wrth her and brought her rnto port
Till, is another payment upon account.-'
(?'S r «) " DEBENET. "
This day was signalized by an aflion truly
republican: As Toon as the Spanish cannons
were heard in the French camp, the soldiers
.who were prtfoner, at Saint J w de Luz,
for m.l.tary offences, demanded to march a
gamft the enemy: their request ,vas granted,
and they were accordmgly armed. After 1
their party had gamed the victory, these re-
i- publican folditrs retired quietly, and of th:ir
is own- accord, I > their prison. r
n '-^ e - onventioa.i - ' reived this accpunt with
ie ! l a^^ rt ' aiU * '•""'■V-rf'Kely decreed the re
; leafeTJt tiieidu,
nfontrrs. s
The pqjtlar foCtely 6f & Quintin wrote
to tfcf convention congratulating jt on the
deer® which made the negroes free, in the
is following termv:
•; " Legislators,
:e " On heiring of the' fraternal manner in
d which yog received the two deputies of color
from St- Domingo, the frat<#ial embraces i
guventhemby the Piefident, the fainting ol
IC The negroe woman foi joy, we too wept with
i- tenderness and gratitt.de. We had a negro
g mafl in this .town, whom we instantly invit
|. Ed to our aflemblv, and ma<V him a member
of our popular focifty, the fraternal kiss wag
< gjven hnn by our Prcfident, as a proof how
_ na|tjji we .ire infpirei by the emancipation
o~joo,coc of our brethren.
F " Keprefentatives of the people, a membeT
- very justly observed in the convention, that
this day should prove a death blow to'Pitt :
e —Continue as you have always done, to de
£ lerve well of your country.
i " Health and fraternity.
(Signed)
] " TALBOT, President."
Mr. DEXTER's OhJervaticiiS concluded.
r I refpeft the manly republicanism of
America too much, tj believe that the
' popular water-gruel, the milk for suck
lings, with which some men llrive to gain :
his favor, can either pleale his appetite or
invigorate his fyttem. There are discon
tented men in all countries; perhaps our
own has fewer than any other. They
hollow loud and often, and we are there- '
fore led to think they are numerous. A '
tumultuous minority thus imposes i
measures on a peaceful majority, against
the firft principle of Republicanism. 0 The
voice of the people is not for war, un
less necessary for our fafcty ar.d -honor.
Many in this City may wi(h for it ; but
the majority through the Union are desi
rous of peace. I ho* they wiil encoun
ter war bravely, if it (hall overtake them,
they aie against running to meet it.
I will not detain the committee with
flati.ng the inconveniences we fubjeft our
selves to, the difficulty of obtainihg lup
plies trorri other countries during the coh
vulfions of Europe, the loss of our arti
cles of export, periling on our hands
from a retaliatory prohibition by Britain,
the impossibility of executing such a law,
or the encouraging_cif frauds to tic rain
of tfij merchant of honor. Theie have
already been the fubje&s of observation.
The llrong objection which arises from
our constitution, 1 cunnot omit. In the
diltribution of power to the several de
partments of government, the right of
| making treaties is given to the Execu
tive. Of course the preparatory negocia
tion mud belong to them as ail incident
of the authority. But we are now com
mencing a negocintion ourl'eh es, and pre
ferring terms of a treaty. It is urged
that this cannot bind the Executive
They may make a different treaty, but
our prohibition will still be in force. Do
we intend to fay then, that we will forbid
our Citizens from Commerce with Bri
tain even after the Executive, the only
iconftitutiona! power, (hall have fettled ail
•matters of difference, unless they will f u f.
I fer us to dictate the mode in which they
fliall ezercife their authority ? This looks
to me very much like usurpation, by
whatever name we may chufe to call it.
It has been said, by a zealous friend of
the measure, that a treaty would be the
supreme law of the land, by virtue of the
conilitution, and therefore would repeal
this law. Perhaps it may in future be
thought convenient to retradt that doc
| trine. If it be true, it is idle to make
■ the But fir, I doubt the truth of
P it. It appears strange to fay that an ad
in its nature such we are
told this is, can be abrogated by an &e
---eutive att. I know of nothing but the
legislature which can repeal a law. It
belongs either to legislative or execwive
power. If the former, the legislative on
ly, can abrogate it ; if the latter, we
ought not to meddle with it. We may
as well carry thro' the negociation, as be
gin it, and prescribe the terms of it. If the
constitution had given us this power, wc
could not exercise it, from our numbers
and mode of doing bnfinefs. It will not
be denied, that the Executive have a right
to appoint and iullruft a negociator, as to
the terms of settlement. Have we the
lame right—or even can we inftruft him
when they {hall appoint? Suppose hnii
thus doubly inftrocted by the Executive
having conftitutior.al authority, and by
us who cannot tell from whence we de-
■ rive the power, and the inftruftions con
each.othor; whom i$ the Negociar
tor to obey ? None will fay thst the°pow
er of the Executive is not paramount all
others as to treaties, and all foreign ne
gotiations. Are we to make a law then
which may be violated with impunity ;
nay more with propriety ? I wish fir, that
, gentlemen who so often tremble for the
• lan&uary of Republicanism and depiecate
usurpation of power, would apply these
t excellent feci mgr. to this fubjetf. We
1 have been often told that something mult
> be done, and that if we object to this
measure we ought to (how a better as a
fubilitute. I have never thought this a
difficult task; I will now state the outlines
i w hat ought to be dpne. By a peculiari
ty in our constitution negociation with fo
reign nations is altogether anExecutive du
ty ; but to declare war, is with the Legis
lature. In governments where the pow
ers of negociation and of war are in the
fame hands, the fame officer can demand
a recompence for an injury, propose hit i
Ultimatum, and declare war if it be re- i
jv.Cted ; but our Executive may be em
barrafied in pursuing a demand of cum- '
penfatiop to the last extremity, left he
ihould pledge the honor of the nation to
war against the will of the legislature, who
ajone can make war. We ought there
fore to pais a resolution requesting the !
Pt etident to pursue with energy a demand |
for recompence according to the cuiiom j
o. nations, and pledging ourselves to sup- j
port ilira if the event ihould prove unfuc- !
cess. ul; and in the mean time we ought to
prepare for war. I c an f ee nothing fur.
tner whicn is legislative in its nature, or
committed to our care by the constitution;
uptii it (hall appear that the negociation
Has failed of success. Then fir, it will
be time enough to prohibit commercial
intercourse, or declare war, or take any
other measures to avenge our wrongs and
vindicate the honor of our country. If
we are to engage in war fir, 1 presume wc
mult have forr.e money to carry it on, un
lets in this instance also we are an excep
tion from general rules. The measure
now contemplated mull almost annihilate
our imports and we have not looked round
for a iubftifute. We have heard of a
innd tax," but there are many objections
to it. On the eve of war public credit
is doubly important. Having loft our
former refuurccs, wp must provide new
funds for the par,dual payment of the in
terest of the public d .t, the expenses
° B over Dmeni, and the innumerable ex
penses of war. Wt must not only fuffer hea- ,
vy taxes and burthens, but also an enor
mous increase of our debt. As lam not
guJiy of being a creditor of the union,
pei haps I may be heard patiently on this
iubject. It has been often said here, that
tiie public debt has enllaved our country,
_ yet row we a e urged to enereale it b'c
-1 ■ y° nd a " calculation, without taking the
u.ual mealures for pacific accommodation,
t I l.ougii I have labored in vain to un
) derlland how the public debt is an engine
of fluvery, and have fmcerely thought our
- country a perfect model of civil freedom,
yet I hope this argument will have some
weight with those, who fee that we are
£aves and that the public debt has riveted
our fetters. Here give me leave to answer
an argument, which has been repeatedlv
prefTed, and with apparent success. It is
not denied that the firllj regular step is to
.demand a recompence for art injury; but
it is laid that Britain regards no laws of
nations in her conduct to ns, and there
fore we are not bound to observe them to
wards her. I presume by this is not meant
that we ought to do wrong, because Bri
tain has done wrong ; butthat it becomes
rig.it for us to disregard those laws.which
(he violates; let us examine this. The
b.wsand usages have prescribed
redress of a I
nation ror an injury ; these of necessity can
only be applicable to an injured nation,
for no other can n<?ed redress. Can it then
fci. true that the moment a nation is injur
ed, and thereby is placed in the situation
tor which, and for which alone the rule
was made, the rule ceases to be obligatory ?
A Ration cannot be injured, p.nlefs the
law 3 of nations with refpeft to her have
neen violated. According to this argu
ment a veiy solemn rule of condud has
been ellablifhed which is never to be com
plied with ; not by a nation which has
received an injury, because there is
nothing to redress; and not by a nation
which has been injured, because with res."
pest to her the laws of nations have been
h Y the aggressing nation, and
tins dispenses with the rule. Thisannve •
1 I
>- to an argument ft» muoii relied on is to
i- my mind perfectly fatisfaftory. 1 call tn
the gentlemen to {hew it to be a fallacy.'-
!l Our situation fir is not new, though .our
conduct may be so. We have seen "fiol
i land when neutral in former wars, fuifer
; ing similar injuries ; they did not purine
t fuel; measures as we contemplate, though
: better prepared for war: Neither their
: interest or their honor luffercd by their
moderation. The present neutral powers
of Europe are fellow-fufterers with us ; yes
- we do not hear of liaiilar impetuosity of
> resentment. In all wars neutral nations
i arc abused, in proportion as the powers at
i war are llrong, and the neutrality weak.-
■ A stronger combination than the present
perhaps never cxitted in Europe ; and a
neutrality can seldom be weaker. The
principles of the present war arc also pe
culiar ; it is a desperate llruggle for exig
ence. The unusual circumstances of it
have compelled the French with whom we
j are in friendfhip, not only to difregardour
| rights as a neutral nation, but to violate
; their treaty with us, though we have pro
, ceeded so far in friendfhip to them as to
hazard our peace. Our meichants iuSer
! severely from that nation ; yet we are told
j that imperious necefiity from peculiar eir
■ cumftances is an excuic. I fay not thtie
| things to criminate that nation ; they have
! been civil enough to apologize and pie
mile recompence; but we have not receiv
ed even gocd manners.from their enemies.
The public mind appears to have fufiercd
little irritation fiom.this cause, and it is far
from my wish to excite any. My motive
is only to (hew that this acquiescence in"
their apology proves our opinion, that tks
present war is peculiar in its nature. Hi.}'
we owe nothing but indignation to Bri
tain, yet we oweprudencc to our country
and refpeft to ourselves. The prefect
moment is infinitely valuable, and outfit
not to be trifled with. The present til .1 •
tion and difpofitiou of Britain aiifcoft en
sure us honorable peace, unless we ; ro
voke war. We have ftroiig evidence that
war with this country is against both their
interest and their wishes. Though tf>e
meaftire under consideration is not in ttftif
hoflility, and violates no law of" nations,
were we to flop here ;yeta little reflexi
on mult convince us that it tends to war.
It is placing our negotiation for reecra.
| pence from Brit-iin oti fonew, and A
them so humiliating a footing, that the r
pride mull revolt ; thus national heftur
must forbid a compliance. They will fey
to our negotiator, no nation ever address
ed another in this way—Suppoie we have
injured you; it is not pofiible for us to
treat with you refpeding retribution on
, these terms : It is not an offct of peaceful
accommodation, but an affront, a chal
lenge. This refufal to treat, which the
mode of making the demand renders tei
tam, will then be urged as a refufal ira
make us a recompence ; and uar beccm.-s
inevitable.
Why fir ftoiM we be thus inpeniiras to
avoid peace and ntih haitfly into the tragedy
of Ei ropeT At such a moment we {night j
psufe and enquire what we can gain hv wa
tt e now possess ev ry bleilmg for which
other nations contend ; we may fofe, But can
not gain by contusion. The price of our prc
ient political happiness was not i'mall; m s
are now eating the fruit of that tree, wWti
was watered with tlie blood of our fathers •
yet we fuffer the canker worn of jea'ouiV
to feed cn its foliage, the whirlwind of oi.!-
cord threatens to root it up for ever. What
attra.lions do we find in the defolaticn, th»
mi.ery, the crimes of Europe? Their ve'-V
virtues are ihaded with horror; their rulers
are the scourges of mankind ; their bufiiit ,s
IS oppression; their sport is violation, tfcev
trade m blood; the Wefts of Moloch 6< r
daily Hecatomb* of innpa nt victims • ti.cw
ta t ten on humanfacrinces; o>.r former friend
are iqfrfle; or rather their patriotic. her
ders on phrenzy; Europe is a' war with atf
tue feelings oi nature ; t% UaUiem. Ur
rights; they !angh ( ft her agojiit s. Car it
' necefl » ! 7 !:r > to describe the fcarninefi t ,f
our own country to shew the tout® > W
are so familiar with public Medina tfet we
have almcft forgotten their value.' The vc : -c
of oppression is not heard. Our h&hitVn,-
are the dwellings of virtue and domefta: W,
pSiefs. Ihe lawi of morality and of -
country are rove, ed. We prophane net IC
akar, ot religion. We Have* res! fe> d /, "
golden age Of tabl*. We have nrafltf-d'r's,
publican viffons. J n fl,i s hvimVit 0 f daoeer
our miKds should ~-dl , r t | le
I <"-calion. We ought to iirjve every <«an.
gerto defena th-fe in S flimal.le 4dvar.tr -cs •
but if we want pruduice, we fhal! z T , ? r3 to
want e-ery virtne.-! have
the q„ r -ft,on. Tn<- sppears t o «• -
Tf ,V C 'V Cn , to '4- r„ U
Jr this fcrl be rt 3 i;zed, tt w ' J feali Cail $
JkepmrtW canity, a Vnf4 niy
,dua will net upbrad n.e. We
back fir acrofe a delude of mifei y which u^yA
overwhelm the country to the happy Ciore
otipeace, which perhaps we now imprudent
ly abandon. We may recall this momei.t as
that in which we hoisted the floodgate of
On such a retrol'peft ou» cou d
trymen may fay, ycu were tne authors of
thei'e calamities, and you are responsible.
1 — —
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 2.
WAYS and MEANS.
Mr. Smith, S. C. as Chairman of aComi
mittee; confilting of a Member from each
State, made the fallowing Report to the
House of Representatives, which is now
under the consideration of the House.
Toe Committee appo'mlcd to enquire whether
any, or <ivhat further or other revenues
are the fuj.-port of public cre
dit ; aid if further revenues are necef
firy, to report the -ways and means,
REPORT,
THAT, on referring to
the dtima'.es c the le
giilaiure by the Sectary of
tae Trealury, they find that
the revenues to tiieend it the
year 1794, are eftiniated to Dots. Cts.
producs 6; 8,584. 19
And that, for the support
of government, military efta
bii'.h.-nent, and other ferv.ces
donated by law, previous to
and during the prefeni feiiion
these would be wanting the
sum of 7,044,117. 98
An.', that further sums wili
probably be reqiiitite for which
pro7ifion ought to be made,
viz.
for the addition to the mi
litary eftabliftrnieot, provifion
ai force, and exptnles of mi
litia 6;e,ooo
That the eftiraated produfl
of the impofl being made at
x time when our commerce
Wis imoia'jarra.T' d, snd no in
terruption of it contemplated,
tie committee are of opinion,
that a deduction thould be
made cn that account, of
1,390,000
from which it re
•yt, v.\z.'c thetfc is a
ieiency of fund;
to aafwer the ce
taands of the pre
fcutyear, <>£1,37;,-
633- 7J-):ooths.
da'l irs; but as the
ftioi of one million
pro v; led jbr foreign
ir.D-TCOUiie, is direc
ed ta be borrowed,
if wanting, the com
mittee have deduc
ed that sum, except
60,000 dullars for
the mterelt arising
thereon, which
haves the sum to
be provided '>435,633,79
'1 o raise which sum, the
committee propose, that there
be raised, by additional im
pil and tonnage 392,500
On carriages (waggons,
carl"., and drays. excepted) 150,000
Or. < x 3mp3 100,000
On iales at auClion 100,000
On manufactured tobacco
and InufF 100,000
On loaf and lumpfugars, 50,000
On licences for retailing
■wines and difiilled spirits 100,000
992,500
By direct taxes on lands 750,000
Dols. 1,742,500
Which sums exceed the current demands
306,866. 21 ; but as the eilimates on molt
of the articles are conjectural, and without
fufficient data for obtaining a com-a opinion,
as to their probable ainouut, the committee
have thought it more expedient to provide
for a surplus, than fuffer the revenue to prove
deficient; and in conformity with the fore
going estimates, they fubmi't the following
rcfolutions: -
Re/a!z*d, That from and after the
day of next, there be levied, collided
and'paid upon the following articles import
ed mtothe United States, in (tips- or vSels
or the United States, with an addition of
one-tenth per cent. 011 like articles in any 0-
thrr ihips or vefFels; the several duties herein
arr-.T mentioned, over and .-hove the duties
now paid, to be levied, collected and paid
m the fame manner, by the fame officers,fub
jeift to the fame penalties, and ent tied to
drawbacks, as the fame articles are now fub
jeJt and entitled to, viz.
On boots, per pair, 25 cents. On (hoes
s,od flippers for men and women, and on
clogs and goloihoes, per pair, 5. Ori lhoes
and (Uppers for children, per pair, 3.
Cn miiluiery "ady maue, artificial"
flowers, feathers, and other orna
ments for wcnuens. head drefles. and
on dolls drefi'ed and undrelied,
On cast, Hit, and rolled iron, and, ge
nerally, on all manufactures of iron,
steel, tin, pewter, copper, brass, or
of which either of thole metals is the
article of chief value, not being
otherwile particularly enumerated
(brass and iron wire, locks, hinges,
hoes, anvils and viles excepted,)
On carpets and earpeting,
On !e;>.th -r tanned or tawed, and, ge
nerally, all manufactures of leather,
or of which leather is tiie article of
chief value, not otherwise particu
larly enumerated,
On medicinal drugs, except these com- »
monly used in dying; on matts and
floor-cloths ; on hats, caps, and bon
nets, of every fort for women ; on
gloves, mittens, stockings, f-ns, but- §
tons of every kind, buckles ((hoe 3
arid knee,) "3
On sheathing and cartridge paper, _ -5
On all powders, pastes, balls, balsams, .
ointments, oils, waters, washes, tine- c
tures, essences, or other preparations o
or compositions, commonly called d
sweet scents or odours, perfumes or
cosmetics, and on all dentifrices, U " 1
powders, of preparations for the
teeth or gums,
On gold, silver, or plated wares, gold
and silver lace, jewellery and paste
work, clocks and watchcs, and the
parts of either,
On groceries, to wit: cinnamon,cWesj
mace, nutmegs, ginger, annifeed, cur
rants,dates,prunes raisins sugar can
dy .oranges, lemons, limes, &, gene
rally, all fruits and comfits, olives,
capers, pickles of every fort, oil, and
mnftard in flour,
On all marble, slate, or other stone;
on bricks, tiles, tables, mortars a»d
other itcne, and generally, all stone
and earthen ware,
On cabinet wares, and all manufac
tures of wood, or of which wood,
is the material of chief value,
On carriages, and parts of carriages, 4 1-2
per cent.
On all manufactures of cotton or linen, or
of muslins ; of cotton and linen,or of which
cotton or linen is the material of chief value
being printed, stained or coloured, 21-2 per
cent.
On all goods, wares, and merchandize,
which now pay a duty of 7 1-2 per cent, an
addition of t t prr cinr.
On coffee, per lb. 1 cent, cocoa, per lb.
2. Cheese, per lb. 3. Salt, perbuihel3.
On the tonnage of {hips or vpfiels of the
United States, employed in foreign trade, 6
cents per ton. On all other (hips or veflels,
?5-
Refolded, That after the day of
every person keeping a carriage, for the
conveying of persons for their own use, (hall
notify the fame at some office, which maybe
designated for the purpose, and (hall pay an
■ nuatfy,
For a coach 10 dollars, for a chariot 8 J
for any other four wheeled carriage 6, for
a chaise, or other two wheeled carriage 2.
With an addition of one fourth, where
two carriages (hall be kept by one person ;
of one third, where three carriages fnall
be kept by one person ; and of one half,
where more than three carriages are kept
by the fame person.
Refolded, That after the day
ps there be paid, the follow,
ing (lamp duties, Letters patent 200, Cts.
exemplification thereof 100.
Licences, or certificates of admiflion,
o. lolicitors, attorries, clerks, advocates,
prodlors, and other officers of couits 5
dollars. Exemplification under the seals
of courts 50 cents. Affidavits and affir
mations, except those before the'officers
of the public revenue, those relative to
fnits pending in courts, to be used there
in, and those relative to criminal proceed
ing 10, Deeds, except thofs otherwise par
ticularly rated 25, Charter parties 100,
bottomry and refpondentia bonds too,-
Apprentices indentures 15, Certificates
ot debentures for drawbacks 20, Bills la
dm£, coastwise, except for vefTels going
from one diftrift to another, within the
hme slate 10, ditto foreign 20, Invento
ries of theefFefts „f deceased persons, or
an y ot,ler p'frpofe preferred by law,
except in cases of goods distrained, or in
compliance of any agreement between two
or more persons 10. Bonds for the fecu-
My ot money, when the sum is above fif
ty, and not exceeding one hundred dol
lars 20. Above 100, and not exceeding
s°°> 25. Above 500, and not exceeding
1000, 30. Above 1000, 40. Receipts
for legacies, or lhares of personal eftnte,
i" cases of mteftates, where the sum is
above s°, and not exceeding 100 dollars
25. More than 100, and not exceeding
500, 50. l'or every further sura above 50Q
lOC. Not to extend to wives, children,
or grand-ehildren. Notarial acts 25.
Letteis of attorney i 5. Politics of i;i
furance, f lom oue dirtt'ft to another, ih
the United States to. To and from the
United States to any foreign country,
for any sum exceeding 500 dollars 25.
FOl every further sam, more than 500,25.
For even' sum of* 2000, or upwards 100.
ProßatafW wills, and letters of admiriif
tratioi 50.
R slued, That after the
day of there (hall be paid,
on .ill sales at au&ion (ecept in the cases
of property fold upon execution, or by
virtjie of diftrefi'es for rent or tax, or in
confluence of bankruptcies, and legal
insolvencies, or where there have been ge
neral alignments for the benefit of credit
ors, or in cales where (hips and goods
have been stranded or wrecked, or in ca
ses of faleby executors or administrators,
or of produce fold upon the land where it
is produced) at the rate of one per cent. ,
Refohcd, That after tiie
day of there (hall be paid,
upon all tobacco manufactured in the U
nited States, 4 cents per lb. On allfnuff
8 cents per lb.
That every manufacturer of tobacco or
Muff, (hall, on or before the
day make entry, with the of
ficer of infpedlion of the diftri£t in which
he relides, of the house or building, in
which the manufactory is cafried on ; and
fnaH enter into bond, with fufficient furetv,
to vender a faithfnl account, every three
months, of the quantity of tobacco or
fiiufF fold or icT't out, within that period.
That, previous to taking in any tobac
co, for the purpose of being manufaftur
ed, he (hall notify the fame to the office of
infpedion, and fnali keep a boo';, in
which shall be entered, daily, the quanti
ty of tobacco or fnuff fold or sent out in
each day.
Refoived, That there be laid an additi
onal duty of four cents per pound, upon
all tobacco, tight cents per pound on all
frtuff, and two cents per pound on all re
fined sugar, imported into the United
States, after the day of
Refvlved, That after the day
of there be paid, on all sugars
refined within the United States, two
cents per pound.
Refulved, That after the day
of every person, felling diftiled
fpints or wines, for consumption out of
thei own dwellings ; distilled spirits, in
less quantity than twenty gallons ; wines,
in less quantity than thirty gallons, except
in the original calk or package, in which
they were imported, (hall take out licen
ces, to authorize the sale of such distilled
spirits and wines, and (hall pay. annually,
For a licence to fell all foreign distilled
fpn its, 5 dollars. For a licence to fell all
wines, 5 ditto.
Resolved, That the sum of 750,000
dollars be raised, by diredf tax for the year
T794, to be apportioned among the
date's, agreeably to the rule prescribed by
th^vronllitution.
APPROPRIATIONS.
Dulls. Cts.
1. Appropriations for sup
port of government 521,447. 24
2. Ditto, for war depart
ment, including fortifi
cations 1,629,936. 1
3. Interest on public debt 2,849,194. 73
4. Frigates 700,000
5. Appropriations for fo
reign intercourse 1,000,000
6. Arsenals, See. 343,640
7. Addition to the milita
ry cllablifhment, &c. 650,000
7,694,217. 98
WAYS AND MEANS.
x. Surplus of reve
nue for 1793, 1,1x8,584. 19
2. Probable product
of import for 1794, 3,300,000
3. Ditto, excise 400,000
4. Probable furpluf
esof appropriations
out of the revenues
of 1793. 500,000
5,318,584-19
Balance, dollars 2>375>'>33. 79
Yesterday arrived the (hip George Barclay,
Capt. Collet, from London, with the {pllow
ing cabin pafiengers.
Capt. Collet failed from London the 14th
March, and Gravefend the 16th, and palled
through the nirth padage.
Mrs. B. 11. Fennell, Mr. James Fer.ncll,
-Tr. Thomas Walker, Mrs. Catharine Walk
er, Mr. Thp.-.ias Walker, Miss Rose Walker,
/
Mr. Edward Willig, Mrs. Willig, Mr. Peter
CoutaDf, r trs.. Maiy Llovd, Mr. jofeph Carr,
Mi .. Murjf Carr, Mr. Thomas Carr, Mr.
Edward jciit's,' Mrs. Mary, Taylor, Mrs.
Lvoia K.mpton, Mr. William Kempton,
Miss Keffecci Gazem, and in the lteer
age—ail remarkably healthy.
A person has been detected and comm<t
ted to jail in Halifax,* (N. C.) who had in
fiis pofTeflion sundry counterfeit R:\nk Notes ;
viz. a jo Dollar Note of the Bank of Nortli-
Amerioa—and a number or 5 Dollar Note»
of the Bank of the United States.
For the x Gazttte of the United States.
To the Editor of the General AJvertfer.
Citizen^
Your Gazette has been compared to that of
Brujfcls, and you have endeavored to ex
culpate it from the charge, by ironically)
as I suppose you call it)fupporting the
comparifoii. But you Ihould recoiled*,
Citizen, that when things are compared,
we do not always include in the companion
all the p£s, qualities, &c. The Brujfcls
Gazette for inftancc, is allowed to be, in
many refpefts, a very ufeful paper: it is
conduced with modesty, inculcates a due
refpeft to the conflituted authorities, obetli
ence to the laws, a detejlation of anarchy ; &
in this refpeiSt lam ready.to confefs that
the comparison does not hold good. The
Brussels Gazette is so noted for its incorreS
nefs on recent occurrences,thatFcote,to paint
a liar in the strongest light, fays that " he
lies like the Brujfcls Gazette. " Every
one knows that this expreflion of the co
median is become proverbial ; and if there
is any, who is not convinced that it has
been justly applied to the General Jld-wr
tfer, let him read your Bulletin volant,
published on the 18th 6f this month.
You fay, " The Brijfels Gazette treats
the people as a Stuinifii multitude ; and so ■
does the General AduertiferWhat you
iheant here as irony "forfooth" is literally
true. Is not the abovementioned Bulletin
a fufficient proof of this! Would any
one, who did not look on the public as
swinishly ignorant, have publiftied, and
republifhed, that romantic (lory, with
pretended confirmations of its truth, long
after the city was in pofTeflion of proof of
its rcfemblance to the Br jpls Gazette ?
The other Printers of the City, behaved
with much more refpeft to the people j it
is true, tbry published the contents of
this Bulletin volant, but they at the fame
time took effectual care to prevent its be
ing believed by telling us
from whence they had extracted it. Thus
then a comparison between theie two fa
mous Gazettes was not inapplicable, even
according to your own words; and why
then be offended at it ?
Salut, Citizen. B.
Philadelphia, id May, 1794. '
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April ,30.
Estradt of a letter from a gentleman in
London, to his friend in this city.
" The people emigrating, the at
torney-general prosecuting, Pitt boaiting,
opposition grumbling, his Majesty hunt
ing, the Queen pocketing, Royal Fre
de ick spending, and the poor itarving—
and, to Crown the whole, we are, one
and all, next Friday, to betake ourselves
to failing and praying.—Ca Ira"
PROGNOSTICS OF WAR.
" The bay-trees in our country all are
withered,
' And meteois fright the fixed stars of
heav'n ;
" The pale-fac'd moon looks bloody on
the earth ;
" And lean-look prophets whisper fearful
change ;
" Rich men look fad, and ruffians dance
and sing."
THEnfficeof the Pufident and Dire&ors
• { the Insurance Company ot North
America, 15 removed to No. 137, Souih
Kroi t street, being tie fuuth eail
From and VVali.ui rtieets. '
May 1. ■ t&f 1 m.
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
May 2.
Wiil be performed,
A TRAGEDY, called
0 THE L LO,
The MOOR of VENICE.
To which will be added,
A COMIC OPERA, written by the Author
of the Poor Soldier, called
Peeping Tom of Coventry.V
ADVERTISEMENT.
SALES at NEW-YORK, I ; A. L.
i BLEECKER. y SONS,
Cn Thursday the 15th May next at Twelve ,
o'clock at the Tontine Coffee Houi'e,
THE FOLLOWING
Itraßs of Land,
lo Wukin* and Flip*' in the coun
ty of Tioga, iiate ot New York.
The containing acres
Southwell quar. of Town&'p No. 2, 9,424
>foi tliweft do. do. 4,
Northenft do. do., 6, 10,525
- Southwcft do. do. 7, 9^°°
Southwell do. do. 8,
N«*» thweft do. do. 8, 6,v> 50
So'utheaft do. do. 9, 6,250
Sourneaft do. 9>°°9
North* eft do. do. 10, 10,475
70»,5.2*
Thefelands are rapidly encreafing in vaiui,
large settlements are already made in several
of t;ie t*>\ri>ftrips; the goodness of foil, and
lite advantages in point of situation being so
■well known, render any further description
unnecejtary* Am ip of the condi
tions of sale in ay be seen at No. 10, Queen
fti eat, VeW-York.
Aoril 10. tuth&stl4M
_____
Second Jlreety between Market and Che/nut
Ji reets 9 Philadelphia.
POYNTELL'S
AMERICAN MANUFACTORY OF
PAPER HANGINGS,
WHERE he keeps up a constant stock of
ten thoufaod pieces for sale, comprising every
■variety of colours, in grounds and figures, of
the most modern and tally patterns, for eve
ry part of a house. The pcrfc&loa attained
ip this manufactory, in peculiar neatness of
wo: Jcma ihip, durability of colours, variety
in deug'ns, and good quality ot the paper, will
bfc found to exceed any European papers at
the fame moderate ptices.
An elegant variety of rich fancy feftoon &
narrow borders, and of stucco and other Co-
Jqpred panne! papers.
Plain gronqds made to any colour or (hade.
Wholefaie orders for any quantity, from
the country or for exportation, executed on
a (hct nonce, .oji advantageous terms, on
nfual credit.
In addition to the above afTortment, he has
a beautiful vane y of
French paper hangings
of very superior quality, (Parisirianctfa&ory}
with a variety of ilich Borders.
April 25 tuth&s2W
A New Novel.
To the LADIES of Philadelphia.
This Day is Publi/hed hy
' MATHEW CAREY,
118, Market Greet,
, Price, u a d, five-eighths of a dollar, sewed
w in arble paper, hall a dollar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
IN TWO VOLUMES.
By Mrs. ROWSON, of the New Theatre,
Philadelphia, Author of Vittoria, the In
quisitor, the F-iJle de Chambre, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given
the following charatier.
IT may be a Tale of Truth, for it is ot
and it is a tale of real diltrefs.—
Charlotte, by the artifice of a teachei, recom
mended to a school, from hnmanify rather
tl\an a convi&ion of her integrity, of the re
gularity of her former conduct, is enticed
from her governed, and accorppanies a young
officer to America.—The marriage ceremo
ny, if not forgotten, is postpOned, and Char
lotte dies a martyr to the inconstanCy of her
qver, and treachery ot his friend.—The fix
ations are artless and affeding—the descrip
tion-, natural and pathetic; we should feel
for Charlotte if such a peifon ever existed,
who for* one er : or scarcely, perhlps, deserved
so severe a puniftiment. If it is a fi&jon,
poetic ju (lice is not, we think, properly dis
tributed
Said Carey has jujl publifhedy
A 2 sheet map of Kentucky
cqmpiied by Elihu Barker, price one dollar
and two thirds.
War Atlas ? containing maps of France,
Germany, Spa n,ltaly, the United Provinces,
the Netherlands, and the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars.
Mao of New Jersey—Hals a dollar.,
Map of Vermont, Conne&icut,Delaware,
Georgia Price three eighths of a dplfar
vach.
April 29. tuth&sjw
Concluding Sales.
THE Sublcribfr having entertd into Co
partnership with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the bufin"fs -of Sugar defining, will diipofe
of ihe
Remaining Stock on hand
Consisting of
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach &,Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By Wholesale at P) "irne Coji for Cajb. J
John Dorfey,
No. 2a, North 3d street.
April 1 . tnth&s6w
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Hank of tlx United Suites, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the B/tnt of North America,
fever a! of which have appeared in circulation
within a few days pi'.Jl; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be diftingu jhed by the following
M A R*K S.
Ti*ve Dollar Bills of the Bank*of the
United Statej.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Tdxturc of the Paper is thickcr and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is fmallet
than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M would extend con
siderably above'the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand clojer togechei than the reft of the bill
The i and yin the word proinife are not
parallel, the f inclining much more loiward
than the i. » '
. The engraving is badly executed,the fti okes
of all the Letters are stronger the devi e
in themargin particularly is much co tiler and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
Wthe counterfeits bear daie in 179 1 —* Where
as tft# Bank was not in operation till Detem
ber, and no five dollar bills were issued in
jhar. year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL have appeared have the. letter
B. lor their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a nearly similar
t'd that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above defci 'bed ; the epgraying is b< tte« exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, are 'n number th 1-
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfeit*.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as defer ibed a
bove, the 0 being less than them, and others
following.
There is no stroke to the /in the wot North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word TwentVy to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregulai
appearance to the word, the Tw and 'hty go
ing below them.
The fignamre 1 Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamb-black and
01, and differs from other inks used in
printing the bills and the calhier's signature.
It is supposed tl\efe forgeries were committed
in forheof th-- Southern States, an all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, come from
tbcncc, and two per Tons have been apprehrrifl
ed in Virginia, on suspicion of being the author
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
win be paid to any Person 01 Ptifons who fhali
discover and prosecute to convi&ton the several
offenders of the following defciiptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufactured
the paper on which the Bills arc printed.
The perfou or persons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
Every person who has a&ed as a principal in
any other way, 111 the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bauk of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
ter B.
They may be diftinguiihed from the genu
ine by the following MAPiKS :
The paper'of the counterfeits is of a more
tend r texture and glofTey furface than the
genuine, and there is 110 water mark in them.
The letter C. in the word Calhier, in the
true bills is strongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
ttroke, evidently in an unfiniflied state. The
letter a in the word demand, is badly formed
and the whole word ill done, and there is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
The marginal device, is much darker in
the falfe, than in the genuine bills owing to
the shade Ifrokes being coarser, much nearer
together, and consequently much more nu
merous. This difference strikes the eye at firft
view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will be paid for apprehending, &
prosecuting to convi&ion the several above
described Offenders in refpeft to this, as to
the last described bills.
THOMAS WILLING, President
of the Bonk United States.
JOHN NfXON t President-os the
Bank of North America,
By order of the Committees of the Kef
pe&ive Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —alto a Country Seat
wilhin 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of Jand and meadow, the
Hops; s not exceeded bymany in the vicinity
of th city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply tu the printer.
m&thtf
advertisement. ;
OF the money robbed from the mail near
3alti;noie, by Do&or Gant> Uo dollars wer« (
afterwards sent by an unknown hand, to the
Postmaster at Baltimore, who transmitted ,
the fame to the General Post Office. Ihe lut- ,
ferers by that robbery are defned le state the
amount of their lofles refpe&ively, and trans
mit the fame, with the original letters of their
corrclpoiidenti ('where recovered) or °' I,er
evidence thereuf to the General Post Omoe,
before the firfl day of June next, immediate
ly after which a dividend will be among (
the claimants.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Post Majler General.
Gen. Post Office, April 4, 1794 ,aw6w
JUST PUBLISHED, .
AND to BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
No. 41, south Second Jireet,
Extract of a letter from a gen
tleman in America to a friend in England, on
the Subject of Emigration—price l Bth ot a
dollar.
Ecdefiajlical EJlM'iJhments detrimental to
a State.
Price i 8 ot a Dollar.
April 22. m'«■&<>
Just Imported,
In the /hip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peter/burgh in Ru/Jia s and novJ landing at
R njfilt's ivharf,
HEMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And for sale at the stores of the fubfetiber in
VValnvt street, Ni>- 22
John Donnaldfon.
Aoril 4. diw w& tt
The annual election
for
Directors and a Treasurer
OF THE
Library Company of Philadelphia,
WILL be held at the Library, in Fifth
street, 011 Monday the fifth of May nfxt, at
tnree o'clock in the afternoon, when the trea
surer will attend to receive the annual pay
ments.
As there are fevera! (hares on which fines
are due, the owners of them, or their rep'e
fentatives, are hereby notified, that they wi l
be forfeited, agreeably to the Imwj cf the
Company, unltrfs the fatd arrears are paid off
on the fifth day of May, or within ten days
after.
-By Order of the Ikreftwt. —
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN,
April 7. micw tsth May.
(NO. 60 )
DiftriS of Pennsylvania, to milt :
Be it remembered that
on »he twelfth day of April in the eighteenth
year of the Independent*; of the United States
of America, Be' jamin Davies of the said di?-
triit bath deposited in this office the title of a
in ip, f .he right whereof he claims as propri
etor, in tile words following, to wit j
4t A Ground Plan of the City and Sub
u urbs of Philadelphia, taken from a&ual
" iurvey ; containing an exact description
u ot all the l'quares, streets and alleys in
" the City and Liberties ; of the situation
" of all the principal public buildings ; of
66 the rivulets, and as much of the Canai
u as lies within the compafc of the draft,
" by H. P. Folic : published by the Propri
ft etor, Benjamin Davies."
In conformity to the a<?t of the Congress of
the United States, entitled an ast for the en
couragement of learning, by securing the co
pies of maps, ebarts and books to the authors
a-id proprietory of such copies, during the
times therein mentioned.
SAMUEL CALDJVELL,
Clerk of the Diltridtof Pennsylvania.
April 9. w&s2w
Lately Published.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
THE Hillory of New-Hampfbire, from the
Diffcovery of,the River Pifcataqua—by Je~
rcmicdi Btlknup y D. D. 3 Vols. Price iu Boards,
412 DolUis.
T|hr forrefter, an American Fjble, being a
Sequel to the Hiftor-y of John Bull the CloUucr.
Prce, 7.5 Cents.
A Dilcourfe, intended to commemorate the
Dilcovery of America by Cfmflopher Colum
bus; delivered at the rcqneft of the Hiiforical
Society in Mairachuletts, 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Third C.encuiv,
since that memorable event. To which are
added, Four DifTertationj., coune&ed with the
By the fame author. Price, 50 Cents.
March ij. tuth&f^w
&T Those persons who
undertake to cut timoer or wood ol any kind
whatever. from any laods of the real fftate of
the late Richaid Stockton Esq. deceased, in
the western pteemti of the, county of Somerlet
in the state of New Jcrfey, under a pretence of
a t ght to cut on lauds adjacent, are rtqueUed to
del it rom lo doing, or they will be proceed
e.i ag oft in such manner as miy'ptove trou
b! one antj expensive to iheraftlves.
Ap"il 16. *»V&S2W
*
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-ttreet, New-York
The Subscriber intending to confiiu himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE SrSALt Of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, bigs leave to of
f<_r his Cervices to his friends and others, in the
line Ola Stock Broker. Those who may pkafe
to favor him with their bulinefs, may depend
upon having it trailed with the utmost fide
lity and dtfpatch.
Orders from Boston, or any
other part of the United State.', will be ftr-iOly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKEit.
m&thtt.
" " Pbilad. Aprif 22, 1794-
* * Notice, agreeably to charter; is here- •
| v gfven to the members of the Cprpo/a. on ,
For the Relief of Poor and DiJlreffed Pre/Uy
terian Minijlers, and of the Poor Mid Dif
trehd Widows and children of Prefiyterian
Miniflers, that a meeting of said corporation
is to take place, on the 22d day of May next,
in the second Preibyterian church in the city
of Philadelphia, at 4 o'clock P. M. for the
dispatch of all such bufmefs as may then be
broueht befo. c the board.
ASHBEL GREEN, _ -
Secretary of the Corporation.
tuth&att .
Just Published,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOB SON,
At the Stone house, No. 41, Sourh Second
Street,
Historical Collections ;
CONSISTING OF
STATE PAPERS,
And Other authentic Documents, intended ks
materials fnran History of the United Stat's
of America.
BY EBENEZER HAZARD, A. M.
In two large quarto volumes, price te|i dol
lars ir. boards.
Su'ofcribers will be fu'-niflied with the ftl.
volume on paving tj»ree dollars and a quarter
—having paid five dollars and a quarier On
receiving the firft.
This second volume compreh«nd<;, amor;
other interesting particulars, a complete co
py of the Record®of the United Colonies of
N. England, in which the conduct of tkfeon -
miflioners relpefting the general, concerns oi"
the colonies —the neiglibour'uig Indians—and
the Dutch at t,lanhattani (new New Yolk) 11
particularly detailed.
* * Materials are collected fufficient To
form a THIRD VOEUME, The lime o
pubtifbing will de.>:nd 00 the enr luragcment
to be derived fiora fubferiptioniw iirh w l!l«
received by Thomas Dobl'on, Philadelphia,'
Jere. Libbey, Portfmoyth, New Ha-p(l. ;
Thomas it. Andrews, tc Dav. VVeft.b itoi ; -
gia Thomas, Wo-cefler ; Ifa;>t N|
Haven; Tiniotiiy Green, New London; faceted
Richardfrn, Newport; John Carter, i'rovi
dsnce; Hugh Galne, Thomas A lien, and
Samuel Campbell, New York; Fred lick.
Craig, Wilmington, Delaware ; j.irnes Ric",
Baltimore; Mr. lindfey, Norlolk ; Dav.d
Hsnderfpn, Fredericksburg J John Grammar
Pjterlbing; Auguftine.Davis, Richmond ; F
X. Martin, Newbern, N. C. John Brad ey,
Wilmington; and William Price Young,Cliai
le (ton-
April 4. mw&fjw
Treasury Department,,
Revenue Off.ce, April 16th, 1794.
Communications by poll or
othrrwfe. will be received bv way of infor
mation at the Office 'of the Commrflioner of
the Revenue from persons willing t 0 supply fn'n
Cannon, Cannon Ball, and Shells, for the for
tifications and Srtips of War. The ftinois >f
the metal for cannon, and the capacity oi in,,
founders in torching, in preparing and nil h
ing the metal, and in carting aurl boring thte
cannon (which are to be .cast solidly) will
quire to.be particularly dated.
S milar communications will also be
ed fr.om any persons willing to ftipply I've
oak and red cedar timber for the conftrui'Vioii
of theftvips 6f war. Different plans of pro
curing and supplying the fame may he propos
ed. The convenience of tbe situation in it
gaid to navigation, and the {{ate of the timber
whether already fallen or hereafter to be cut,
will require to he noticed.
AH the necetfary particulars in regard to
thefeveral articles which are wanted, will be
specified in eonirafts intended to be grounded
in part on the information, which is hereby
fougnt.
PASSAGE POUR ST.DOMINCUF*
Tousles Fraiifois qui fe font prefeme
oil vouJront >fe presenter powr avoir tine
prompte palFage pnur St. O.nningtu-', font iu
fiamment pries de laiff r leu s nonis aujou; - ,
d'huiou deinain, dans le coinptoir de James
Mc. Curach Sc Co. No 42 Dock street, qui
fe propofent d'envoyer foil batiment leSanifi,
di prochain 3 de Mai: le batiment est tout
prec pour faire a la voile avec des bfttlnes ac
commodations poor prendre pillagers a bol t l .
April 29. 3 t.
NANKEENS.'
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
FOR. SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April 21. mw&'tt
PHILADELPHIA:
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 3
South Fourth-Street. t