3«*
E VEN ING ADVERT I S E R.
[No. 104 of Vol. V.]
For Norfolk iff Fredericksburgh,
SALLY,
John Earl, Master.
A ftiußch good vessel, will fail in a few
day :. For freight or p.flage, apply to the
master on board at Chcfout street wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONY & SON.
March 31.
For Sale or
- ANDROMACHE,
IS a ft oat veiTal, about two years old,
btir-lien 232 ton?, ha 1 ! only made three voy
age", and may be lent to sea ;it 4 fniai ex
jience. Stj2 may be leen at V i ll t-fl I'cCt wharf,
and tbe terras nude known by aj»pli cation to
ll r HARTON'd LEWIS.
dtf
March at
For Amsterdam,
--■—» _ The new fail-failing, copper
/fcjkCW bottomed SJ.IIP
§|g| ADRIAN A,
K. Fitzpatrick, Master.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a. Liverpool Trader, will fail with
ast convenient speed. For freight or paflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at-Walnut ftrcet -wharf, or to
THOS. iy JOHN KETLAND.
N l . B; Pafiettgers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
Maj-ch 6, 1794- dtf__
the Profits ar.ftng from te following publi
cation are for the benij i of the Poor.
Just publi/hed, printed by R. Aitken and
Son, and fold by J. Crukihank, W. Young
T. Dobfoa, and the other Booksellers,
MINUTES
OF THE
x rocce Lungs uj luc Kjommutcc
Appointed on toe 14th September 1793« by
the Citizens of Philadelphia, the Northern
Liberties, and theDiftrift' of Southwark,
to attend to and alleviate the fuffcrings of
she afflittcc! with the Malignant Fever,pre
valent, in the Citv and it* vicinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
A lift of pesHbns adin tted into the Hospi
tal at Bush hill, Ihewing the times' of their
death and discharge.
Number of Houfcs, Deaths, &c. in the
refpe&ive streets, alleys, and courts in the
city of Philadelphia, Northern Liberties, and
Diftrift of Southwark.
A l»ft of the Interments in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia, Northern
Liberties, and D of Souii)wark, with a
meteorological account of the weather.
A fomuiary of donations tn calh and provi
fioas,. received from fuifdry persons and pla
ces, for the ufrof the poor and afflicted.
April 2. d3w
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amllerdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
IN in pipes,
bales Holland Duck,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, vet
rious Jtzcs.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and, flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c. &c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is fir Sa!e~
thouldapplication be a few days ;
otherviije Jhe will for Amller
dam.
March 1,1 794 . d _ tf
TO BE~SOLD7
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation,—also a Country Seat
within 6 railos of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
H , ou . le ls . not exceeded bymany in the vicinity
' n or convenience.
ticularj apply to the printer.
anu * r y 2 3 mictl&m '
r v ■ #L
_ a * **•
of tlrfpL
>r Charter,
IMPORTED
In the Brig George and Harriot > from
Havre de Grace 9
AND FQR SALE BY
Louis OJmont,
A PERFECT
Aflortment of Hanging Paper,
high coloured and plain-
V hite silk Stockings, high drefied and put
up E iglifh fafhion.
The handfonieft artificial Flowers and Fea
thers.
Some Looking Glass Plates to be fold bv the
cafe. '
A few hampers of Champaigne wine fix
years old.
ALSO,
An elegant parcel of
Bearflrin Muffs,
And very beautiful S.lk Cloaks, which on
account of the se a s on will be fold low, and at
a long credit.
LIKEWISE
? pipes Madeira wine,
and a few casks of Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
Heniill have for fate,
A general assortment of
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn hats, fans and cambricks, claret in
cases, a quantity ot window glass well sort
ed ot all size-:, and a lew pair of remarkable
Looking Glafles framed, all arrived ift Nor
folk, now coming round.
March 22. dtf
Saturday, April 12, 1794.
. Mordecai Lewis,
Has for at bis Store, No- 25, Dock-
Street:—
A few Bales of Ruißd-Sheetingfr,
Barcelooa Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale oX low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity ot Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Tonkay, d to.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Brimstone,
With a Variety of othci; Goods.
Feb. 20. 3taw6w
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
fup< rior quality in prpes, imported in the flip
Wil nington.
OLD SHERRY WINE of the fit ft quality
in quarter casks, imported in the brig Nancy
capt. Gwjn. from Cadiz
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RAISINS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIFFE WINES,in pipes
hhds. and quarter calks, imported in the ihip
Thomas, capt. Skinner.
A few quarter calk l : of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who has also, just arrived and for sale
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lijbon Salt.
A quantity of empty BAGS- for Me,
April 5* diw w&rsun.
ADVERTISEMENT.
OF the money robbed from the mail near
Baliimorc, by,Do<stor Gant, Ilodolla s were
afterwards lent by an unknown hand, to the
after at Baltimore, who tranfrnitted
the fame to the General Post Office. T e fuf
ferersby that robbery arc ueiired to state the
amount of their loftes respectively, and trans
mit the fame, with the original letters of their
correspondents (where recovered) or other
evidence thereof to the General Post Offici,
before the firft day of June next, immediate
ly afier which ad<vipend wili be made among
it:. __ __
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Poji Nlafter Ortwraf
, Gen. Po!t Office, April 4, 1 -9.J
Loft last Night,
Between Second and Seventh llr ets, a
Red Morrocco Pocket Book,
Cntairii- g a few private letters atid a bill
of exchange, dated Charleston, March ,
drawn bv John Minnick on Philip Care, ill "fa
vor of Suns White, which can be of no uie
to any one but the owner, whoever has found
the fame, and will deiivei it atlfrael Ifraei's
Inn, shall be hand bmeiy rewarded.
April 9- *4t
nifci) plates
AND
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfceads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
madeira,,
In pipej, hoglhcads and guarter caflcs,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front (trecc.
L an - 1 794- dtf
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Mai ket-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery,
DefignccJ to exhibit in a new point ol view
lis etfe&s on morals, indujlry, and the peace of
Jeciety. Some ra&s and calculations are offered
to prove the labor offieerntn to be much more
pi odutlive than that ot Jlaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion ihe
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the n ceflaiy conclufiun, that
flavcry is impolitic as well a* unjujk
k P*ic.E2s Cents. dtf
February i 5.
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Fi-ve Dollar Hills of
the iiank of the United State. f, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of ihe Jia/iA of North America,
federal of w 1 ich have appeared in circulation
within a few days pajl; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, Out may
be dijlinguijhed by the following
marks.
Five Dollar Bill of tbe dank of the
United Statej.
ALL thai have appeared h«*vß the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture ot the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes tfie ink more freely than
the genuiile paper.
The O. in ine word Company is fmalter
than theM. and othei ittters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the-M. would extend" con
(ideiabiy above the< of the whole word.
In tlie word United the letters are narrow
eraud closer together than the left of the bill
The i and J in the word promise are not
parallel, t'K f inclining much more tor wan*
t»j«n the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the ftiokts
of all the Letters are itronger and the devi- e
in the margin particularly is much coaikr and
appears darker than io the true biiis. Some
et the counterfeits bear da*e iq 1791 —Where-
as the Bank was not in operation uii Decern?
ber, and no five dollar bills were ilTueJ in
that/year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the lettei
B tor their alphabetical mark.
iav6«
They are printed on a paper neajly fimiiar
to that of the ecuuterfe»t Five Dollar Notes
above described ; the engraving is beitet exe
ucted, and t:.ey approach nearer to the ai>
pearance of the genuine bnls.
The fine ruled hues through the wc
t\ y in the body of the biL, are in nuuibei th.r
tsen in the genuine l>;lis, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The woi d Qompa/iy is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as defer ibed a -
bove, the o being ieis than the and ©tueis
following.
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the ltroke is we'
defined.
defined.
The letters cnt in the word Twenty > to the
left hawd at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are so cut as to an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and the go
ing below
The has the appear
ance of with lamp-blacic 'ami
oil, and differs Irom the other inks used in
printing the bills and the cashier's signature.
It is fuppofcd these forgeries ftere committed
in some of the Southern States, as all the court
terfeits that hartd appeared, have come irom
thence, and two perform have been apprehend
ed in Virginia, qq fi4fpic*pn,of being the authors
of them.
The reward of ON.E THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Person or Perfonswho shall
discover and prosecute to conu&ion the several
offenders of the folio wing.ji|oi(briptioas Of any
of them, viz.
The perfqn or persons, who manufa&ured
the paper on which ihe Bills are printed.
The pecfon or per tons, who engraved the
plates.
T he printer or printers, of the bills.
. * cr y person" who has a&ed as a principal in
an y other wav, in the counterfeiting aod utier-,
«ng the raid b»'l) s .
THOMAS WILLING, Prefiden
of the B<mk United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bduk of North America.
9 By «*ler of thr Committees of the Ref
peAive Boards.
Philadelphia,. March £&, 1794. <kf. 1
[Whole No. 565
<S"/. Domingo Snfferers.
™OSE pcfonswho undertook to collect
the subscription made for the relief of the a-
Ull ' ol tunate persons, are r.quefted to
complete their returns, where they have Dot
a ready done it, and to deliver the fame, with
"glance they may hold, into the hands of
tle I rea(liter, who will receive anv subscrip
tion which remains uncollected, or any frelh
onation. It is hoped instant attention will
p°tice, to enable the commit
tee of dftnbut.on to close their accounts and
r C »:, th " relitf to a number of those per
hete ' whore situation is
truly diftrei&ng.
By order of the committreof dillribtio n,
Robert S/nit/j 3 Treasurer.
April 9, ;794 .
rt . is requested the dififcrent Printers
will for a few days, publilh the-above.
Just Imported,
In the/liip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peterjburgb in Rujia, and kikv landing at
RuJeWj wharf,
HEMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS.
RAVIN'S DUCK,
RUSSIA DICK,
And for folt at the %vrrs of the fubfcribcr ir
Wainur street, N 02.
John Donnaldfon.
d 1 w w & 11
April
Congress of the United States.
Hqujt of Rcprefentatrvee
1 _
,• M ""- Gilcs ' s reply to Mr. W. Smith's ob
( lervations on the palling of the naval
, armament bill.
( Continued.)
Mr. Giles observed that it had Jjecn
said and repeated in the committdßßk
t. i proposed measure, was war. lajoS
nied that the measure in ttfelfvns w* or
that it furnifhed a jufl oaufe of war. He
believed, however, that it was problema
tical whether it would eventuate in peace
or war; indeed, he remarked, that the
crisis of affairs is already such i that whe
ther the measure be adopted or not, he
viewed war as a probable event, peace as.
a poflible event ; but the point he con
tended for was, that if the
towards the United States be fulficient to
juftify reprisal, the exercise of the right
dpes not furnifh a just cause of war. The
exercise of a right by one nation, can ncv
ver involve the absurd consequence, of
giving another nation the right to exercise
a iwrong.
He said that gentlemen on one fide of
this ; question seemed to ast upon an ima
ginary, instead of the real state of things,
he was not therefore aftonilhed at hearing
the committee cautioned against the viola,
tion of neutrality.
He did not conceive that the present
state of things between the Unjted States
and Great Britain would juftifv the use of
the term Neutrality. Neutrality is a
term used ta fignify the relation, in which
two nations stand towards each other
Neutrality, therefore requires two parties;
either party may destroy the relation of
things between the parties. It therefore
appeared absurd to him to fay that Great
Britain was in a state of depredation and
war towards the United States—and the
United States in a state of neutrality to
wards Great Britain, It has been said
that the United States have not abandon
ed their neutrality—this is true—but it
is no evidence that neutrality exists.
Great Britain has abandoned it for them.
He said however, that this was disregard
ing the substance and entering into a mere
cavil about names.
It was not material in his opinion/what
name ought to be given to the existing
relation of things between the United
States and Great-Britain: Whether it
was called a state of pcaee, a state of war,
a state of neutrality, a state of reprisal, a
state of retortion, or a state of"very unci
vil conduct on the part of Great Britain s
nor did he conceive it material to afcer-
•J .
V* * ''i «■
I
4 'tai i, whether there were any intermediate
(tages between a state of peace and a (late
of war ; or in which ftatc the depreda- |
tions of Great Britain (hould technically
b« classed : but one thing was certain and
material: that the United States had sus
tained fubjlantial wrongs which required a
fubjlantial remedy. Gentlemen who h»ve
regarded names and disregarded fubltan
ces, have also been extremely alarmed at
of a discrimination of conduit by
States towards foreign nations.
A gentleman (Mr. Boudinot) observed
yesterday, that the United States had sus
tained injuries from France and Spain as
well as Great Britain, and alked why there
(hould be any diicrimination in their favor.
Mr. Giles said he was extremely hurt, that
the conduct of France (hould be so unne
cefiarily and unopportunely arraigned in
that House. He submitted it to the gen
tlemen to fay, if the United States (hould
be compelled' to enter into the war, which
was at this moment not an improbable e
event; whether it would be wife to irri
tate the only nation in the world who
could afford them any substantial affilt
ance. He said that this conduit was the
less juftifiable from the recollection that
the conduit of France, was the result of
neceflity, and that there was every reason
to conclude, that the conduit of that nation
would be explained in a fatisfactory man
ner. But a confederation mentioned by a
gentleman (Mr. Smith, M.) yesterday,
was a conclusive answer. The United
States owe to Fiance a pecuniary obliga
tion, as well as one of a morefacred nature.
This is at all times fufficient for their in
demnification. With refpeit to Spain, if
the gentleman would (hew the injury sus
tained and point fund for indemnifi
cation, Mr. Giles declared he would not
hesitate a moment to apply it to that ob
jeit.
\
•Vui
But will the gentleman conclude, that
because one nation has injured us in a de
gree, against which we have no redress ;
that therefore we shall not indemnify our
selves from a nation which has injured us
in the extreme, and against which we have
the moit ample redress !
He believed the gentleman's coolness,
his wisdom and his deliberation could not
possibly lezd him to such a result. With
respect to discrimination in the conduct of
States towards foreign nations,
grew out of the character of
KeTpiidnct of other nations towards the
IMm States.
To keep France out of the comparison,
let this indifcrlminate conduct, fp much
applauded, be applied to Great Britain .
and Holland :—Great Britain destroys
our trade, plunders our property, and to
her injuries! adds insults and contempt—
Holland engaged in the fame cause, fofters
our trade, and refpedts us as a nation.
Under these circumstances do gentlemen
contend that an indiscriminate conduct is
due to Great Britain and to Holland}
Or do they mean to carry this delicate in
discriminate conduct so far as to refufe to
themselves all redress from one nation ;
because they would wilh to deal out the
fame conduct to all others, whether they
had offended or not ? He said that discri
mination was damped in the front of the
conduct of foreign nations towards us;
and to make an indiscriminate return
would be the worst and most unjust of all
discriminations. He hoped gentlemen
would pardon him, but he could not help
thinking that they had carried their ideas
upon this fubjeft to the most fanciful ab
surdities. A gentleman (Mr. Smith, S.C.)
yesterday remarked, that of late the con
dition of war had been much ameliorated
as it regards the rights of property, and
he thought the amelioration ought to be
extended rather than abridged. Mr. Giles
declared that he heartily joined him in his
wifties, that the condition of war would
ere long be ameliorated both as it regards
property and persons.. He hoped that
mankind would soon learn more wisdom
than to butcher each other for the amuse
ment or security of the privileged orders
of the world. From that source he be
lieved all wars arose, and until the cause
was banilhed f-om the earth, he feared
the fatal effects resulting from it would
continue to exist. He declared that he
ihould view the banishment of the privile
ged orders from the world, as the surest
harbinger of the approach of the milleni
um. But this is not the happy period of
the world—For although the United
States are free from this pest of the hu
man species in their internal organization ;
yet the evils, they at this moment experi
euce, arift from their external intercourse I
with that part of the world which is less
fortunate. The attack made on the Unit
ed States at this it.onierit, is an attack up
upon property, if thert fjiould be a war
between the United States and Great Bri
tain ;it will be a war of property. Un
less there should be a species of madness in
the nation not to be calculated upo'n, they
cannot think of invaiion and lubjugation.
It is known that the United States cannot
make an attack upon Grest Britain ; and
territory' and con Que ft with them are no
objects. Hence the war will be confined
to depredations upon property. This is
the moll dishonorable species of warfare,
and therefore the more to be regretted.
There is this obvious diftinftion however
between the United States and Great Bri
tain. With Great Britain, at leajl with
the privileged orders, it is matter of choice
—with the Ut/!ted States it is matter of
compuliion—the United States despise
this mode of warfare—they covet not the
property of any nation upon earth, but
felf-prefervatiori demands it. T hey are
under the strong hand of a powerful nation,
despising their rights, and regardless of
justice. In this state of things there is but
little hope of strengthening the sacred ties
of property —For in the example of Great
Britain, her late conduct, can farnifh no
consolation for these theoretic {pecula
tions; and however the United might be
inclined to practice upon them, yet the
Briiifh depredations will forbid them—for
submission will be an invitation to new
acts of aggrefiion—he mod ardently wish
ed the state of things were otherwise, but
exposed to these inconveniences, the mod
effectual means ought to be adopted for
their refiltancc.
(To be continued.)
Tuesday, April 8.
The Speaker laid before the house, a re
port from the Secretary of the Treasury, on
the representation of the legislature of the
state of Kentucky, refpefting the adjustment
of a claim for the expense of sundry expe
ditions against the Indians.
The committee appointed to bring in a
bill to fortify the city of Annapolis, are Mr.
Murray, Mr. Jeremiah Smith, and Mr. Wil
liams.
On motion made' and seconded to agree
to the following resolution:
Resolved, That a committee be appointed
to examine and report on the praChcabdii/
of obtaining a statement of the principles,
on which the accounts of the individual states
with the United States have been fettled,
and a statement of the several credits allowed
in the said settlement. Negatived—Yeas 59 —
Nays 56.
Yeas —MefTrs. Bailey, Blount, C'nriftie,
Claiborne, Dawfon, Gilbert, Gillefpie, Glen,
Gordon, Greenup, Grove, Hancock, Harri
fon, Heath, Irvine, Latimer, Locke, Macon,
Madilon, M'Dowell, M.:banc, Moore, Neville
New, N.cholas, Page, Parker, Rutherford,
Scott, Smilie, Sprigg, Treadweil, Van Allen,
Van Cortlandt, Van Gaafbeck, Walker,
Watts, Williams, and Winiton.
Nays—Messrs. Ames, Armltrong, Bald
win, Beatty, S. Bourne, B. Bourn, Cadwa
lader, Clark, Cobb, Coffin, Coit, Ccles, Day
ton, Dearborn, Dent, Dexter, Fiadley, Fitzfi
mons, Forreft, Folter, Giles, Gil.nan, Good
hue, Gregg, Griffin, Hartley, Heifter, Hill
houfe, Holten, Hunter, Kittera, Learned, Lee,
Lyman, Malbone, Montgomery, Muhlenberg,
Murray, Niles, Pickens, Sedgwick, Sher
bourne, J. Smith, I. Smith, S. Smith, W.
Smith, Swift, Thatcher, Tracy, Trumbull,
Venable, P. Wadfworth, J. Wadfworth,
Ward, Wingate, and Winn.
A committee was appointed to feleft such
of the confidential communications made by
the President on the 24th February lalt, as
are proper to be made public.
Wednesday, April 9.
In committee of the whole on the motion
of zd instant, to prohibit all commercial in
tercourse between the the United
States and the fubjeifts of Great
Britain or Ireland, so lame fliall
refpeft articles of the grovmi or manufac
ture of Great Britain or Ireland, after some
debate, progress was reported.
Mr. Heath reported a bill to amend the ast
intituled, " An acfl to enable the officers and
soldiers of the Virginia line on continental
establishment, to obtain titles to certain lands
lying northwest of the river Ohio, between
the little Miami and Sciota.
L. —
From the SkdJLEM GAZETTE.
Mr. Cushing,
T AM „ r .f rt- . . „
f'«r
I AM a high foil of liberty—and sin
cerely wifli the guillotine may be the portion
of every one who does not think as 1 do. I
am a true friend to the freedom of the press
—and think the Printers ought to put tfa •
freely every thing offered them on the right
fide of public queltions—and to be turned
out of their employment if they publish on
the wrong fide. lam considerably older
than you are, Mr. Cutting, and am there
fare wiser by the experience ofcage; and
besides, I have more monev, and have for- 1
merly been a member of the' House, and mult
therefore be allowed to know more about
politics than you, or even than men of equal
age and property with myfelf, who have
been conan£d to the riarrofy waiks of private
life. These things being considered, it will
plainly appear, that I ought to keep an eye
over the Editors of newspapers ; for if these
fourcesof information become impure, those
who drink of their streams willbe poifonecl —
and if men of my importance don't give
leflfons to the Primers, who will ? The Prin
ters, Mr. Cufhing, have it in their power to
do more good than any class of people what
ever—if they would not contradict each o
ther, they would have none to contradidl
them ; and so they might make all their rea
ders think alike, ail alike—and in the course
of time, I hive no doubt, to even look Alike
—and if you get them all to think, a<ft and
look on the right fide of things, what a hap
py people (hould we be !
Now, Mr. Printer, you did very wrong in
your last, (and I have heard twenty people
fay the fame) to publish the pieces signed
"An Eledlor and " ElTex"—it is your
duty not to publish any thing for tiofe arifto-
dogs, who don't think as I do about
certain men. Don't you fee that they want
to enslave us all—to overset our state govern
ments —to destroy the freedom of thinking,
and speaking our minds about public men
and public measures ? Why 'tis as plain as
the nose in your face—and if you continue to
print for such tyrannical lordlings, you are
no better than a traitor to your country, and
will deserve to be sent to France, to be made
a head fhorte*. Indeed nothing saves you
from present damnation, but the piece which
followed, signed " A Merchant. Now there
you did right, to publish in favor of the old
Patriot ot '75 —only it ought to have put
him up for Governor, inilead of that crafty
anftocrat, Jcdje Cufhing, who wants to sue
all the States.
Now, Mr. Printer, if you mean to con
duct a Free Press, which is eflential to liber
ty, don t print any more for those people
whose sentiments tend to the deftruftion of
all freedom. They are rank old Tories, who
with to throw us into the hands of Great
Britain, as they did in '75. We have now
too many of her friends Hinging us in our
bosom. And mark a certain class, and watch
them narrowly—they are the most danger
ous—l mean some who are continually blus
tering in the llreets about the Britilh, aad
pretend they would facnfke money, limbs
and life, to revenge their in r ulis, .and crulh
their power—when, all the time, they keep
open (hops for the faleof liritifh manufactures,
Which you know are the very sinews of
their strength ; and to cut which, would at
once revenge their injuries, and make the
haughty Briton crawl at our feet.
If you <hould have any more electioneer
ing or political pieces, Mr. Cufhing, fliow
thtm to me, and i will tell you whether they
will do ro prim. T'~T" '
An Enemy to Arijlocrats•
Foreign Intelligence.
is- »
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Thursday, December 12.
Evening Sitting.
A great number of female citizens de
mand the speedy trial of their incarcera
ted parents and relatives.
President—" The welfare of the peo
ple is the supreme law. It is the law
which di&ated the arrest of fufpefted per
sons. The convention will weigh in ifs
wiidoKi your claims. The law shall pun
iih the guilty and absolve the innocent.—
The convention invites you to wait with
confidence the decision of the law. You
are admitted to the fitting." Applause.
The Convention referred the petition
to the committee of general fafety, and
ordered the President's answer to be in-
ferted the bulletin.
ItllCU UIC U UIJCLIII*
Friday, Dec. 23.
A commifiary of war appeared at the
bar, and wished to be heard, when Tome
contention ensued. \
Bourdon of Oife—" It is truly alion
| idling that you fhouid refufe to hiar a
man who comes to denounce the non-exe
cution of the laws, and to entreat the
Convention to break the chains of 1000
brave Republicans, wholanguifh at Mentz
through ehe neglect of the Minifler at
War."
The CommifTary of. War being per
mitted to speak, said "'When Mentz was
evacuated, the Prussians detained 1000
Frenchmen as hostages, till the expenses
of the departure of our columns, and those
of the hospitals, fhouid be defrayed, and
all their debts paid.
" Tired of their long and rigorous cap
tivity, our unfortunate brothers in arms
obtained leave for one of them to come
to Paiis, to demand the execution of the
law. That citizen is arrived a month a
go. He vainly ran forwards and back
wards tnrough the war offices, and to the
national tve'afury. The one sent him b?ck
to the other, without coming to any point.
Mean while those brave Republicans act.
Sans Shoes, Sans Stockings, Sans Shirts,
Sans Money, Sans everything ! They are
quite naked, and many of them xvM pe
rish through the inclemency win
ter, if the Convention does not relive
them."
Bourdon would not flip this opportu
nity to inveigh mod violently againfl the
Minilter at War; and moved, that Boa
chotte be summoned immediately to the
bar, to account for the delay of rcleafin-r
those hostages.
The Convention decreed, that the mi
nilter be summoned to the bar during the
present fitting. 6
A young maiden complained of the
hard and cruel treatment which (he expe
rienced on the part of her parents, for rc
fufing to marry a man w'hom flic does not
love Referred to the committee of le
gislation.
The Convention patted a long decree,
refpefting the plan of national educa
tion.
Bouchotte, the war minister, appear
ed at the bar, and read several written
documents, tending to clear his conduct
with regard to the TOOO hostages ftif] de
tained at Mentz. He proved, that ever
since the end of last August, he gave or.
ders to pay the enemy the sums stipulated
for the enfranchifement of those hostages
and that he had since feiit confiderabl,
Turns for their support.
r r»;r.
Bourdon of Oife observed, that those
urns ought to have been sent fix tnonths
Jgo. He read a letter signed Brunfwick.,
granting permillion to let pass the sum of
20,0c0 crowns, expended by the priion
ers at Mentz.
Referred to the committee of public
welfare.
Saturday, Dec. 14.
Lecointie of Versailles—" About tbc
latter end of October, we received feyeral
denunciations against an armed force, cal
ling itfelf revolutionary, commanded by
Turlen, Aid-du-camp to General Htu
riot.
The commonalties of Tliieux, Jully,
and others of t'ue dillrift of Meaux, have
been the victims of its robberies. At
Corbeil the fame infamous tranfaftions
have taken place, and the particulars at
tending them are so attrocious as to make
one shrink back n-ith horror.
" On the 30th of November, a detach-
mcniXJr mat armeu iorce, torming a kind
of van-guard, all armed with hangers, and
girded with pistols, entered at ten o'clock
at night the dwelling- of Citizen Gilbon,
the father of a family of eleven children
—an old man, part 75 years of age, jnd
a farmer at Tigery, near Corbeil, who
keeps three ploughs. Having entered
the kitchen, the chief of the horde gave
orders to a piquet of 50 men, forming
the corps of relerve, to remain v ithout
doors, to guard the house and waggon
which followed them.
" He asked what was the name of the
citizens piefent, and who wasthemafter?
Being answered that the latter was in bed,
he went there, forced him to put on his
cloaths, and demanded that all the arms
be delivered up to him. The wife of
Gilbon delivered a hunting-piece, the on
ly article of fire-arms which the house
contained ; then the whole horde seized
the body of old G.lbon, dragged him in
to an adjacent room, (Iruck, bound anj
handcuffeded him with his hands behind
his back, tied them down to his feet, and
covered his head with a sack. Tie wife
and tenfervants, two of whorJPpt fe-
shared the fame fate. Then
those ruffians demanded of Gilbon the
keys of his dnwjrs and chest, " to veri
fy," said they, " if they could not find
some fleurs de-lys, or some other aiticlcs
contrary to law."
" Gilbon prom!fed obedience if they
would untie his hands. They refufed,
searched and wrested from him his keys.
No sooner were the dpors opened, than
the ruffians seized and carried off 26 co
vers, a soup soup and ragoo
spoons, and 3 marked Louis
Gilbon, 2 fnuff boxes, 40 counters, and
2 watches, all made of silver t another
watch in a geld cafe, and various other
effects, efpeciallv a gold cross and a silver
key chain which the wife of Gilbon was
then wearing : They tore the cross from
her neck, faying they would take a proces
verbal of it as fc on as they should be oniet
and easy at Melun, and that those effects
were to be can icd to the waggon which
■ cmaitied before the door with the etai t.
then asked Gilbon, wberrwas
hixcouied specie ? " If thou dclt not de-
tc!s®J* it," said one of them, " the guillo
tine is at the door—l will be thy executi
oner." Gilbon prayed to be untied, that
he might point it out. They carried hun
off afeconj time into his kitchen 1 , where
they said to him, "we will make thee
ling."—They left the reft bound down in
the hall, dragged old Gilbon close to the
fire, and applied his naked foot folk's to
the burning coals ! —He uttered a dread
ful scream ; terror and consternation feizcd
the whole house; the ruffians retired,
breaking a chest pointed out to them, in
which they found and carried off 72 livres
i'i specie, and between 5 and 600 livres
more, in affignats, which he had jult re
ceived 2s the piice of his corn in requifiti
-011, which he fends every day to Corbcil,
to supply Paris.
" These monsters, not contented with
their booty, broke the cellar doors, iet off
a calk full of vinegar, and took the sup
per and the wine of the family; and at
midnight, satiated with cruelty, and ine
briated with wine, they retired, leaviwg
the whole family in the ropes and mana
cles with which they had bound them.
" A pmetis verbal, taken by the juf
tlce of peace of the cantoit, accompauied
by the municipal officers of Tigery, and
by the fnrgeon of Corbeil, who had been
called to dress the wounds and contusions
of Gilbon & his people,prove the authen.-
ticity of the fadls of which I have jult
given a feeble (ketch.
" I mull inform you, citizens, that
such is the stupor of the country people,
that the unfortunate who fuffer torments
of this kind, durst not complain, deem
ing themfclves but too fortunate to have
escaped death.
" All that bears the name of armed
f <rce, now iiifpires thein with the utmost
terror; and your ears would not even
now be struck with this atrocious narrative
if Gilbon's son, who is my farmer, had
not hsd an opportunity to come to me
refpe£ting foiue other business."
Andre Dumonl, representative at Ab
beville, wrote from that place December
10, that he left Amiens, after having
thrown into prison the agents of the re
bels. He further Hated, that he came
to Abbeville to ccicbratc a fete to Re-.ifon,
which was folemnizcd upon a mountain ;
a prieit, released from prison, was there
married to the widow of a soldier, in the
pretence of 7000 persons. He burnt all
■-the feints,- fawthe goddds ot" iibertv test
ed upon a palanquin, and heard a civic
fer#lo,-1 which terminated with
the oaths taken by the people to extermi
nate the tyrants, and a salute of the ar
tillery.—He added that Amiens was per
fectly regenerated, and that he had ba
nished all the foreigners, and the agents
of La Vendee.
UNITED STATES.
CARLISLE, (Penn.) April 2.
A cqrrcfpondent wilhes to inform the
gentlemen of Philadelphia who have been
speculating in New Found Lands in the
Counties of Cumberland and Miißn, that
owing to the carelcffnefs of fjmt hunters
not putting out their fires, the mountains
were set on fire, and considerable damage
fullaincd in the timber and Jlones —the
I..nd remains unhurt, being too deep un
der the Hones to receive any injury.
r PITTSBURGH, April 5.
1 he latest intelligence from the army
is by letters dated Cincinnati, March
6th. Ihe Indian flag, Whiteeyes, See.
had given reason to expect 30 chiefs to
treat, with all the prisoners amongst
them, to be with General Wayne by the
14th of February. The General in or
der to give them a good impression of
our force, was at the expence of bringing
the Cavalry from Kentucky, where they
were wintering. But no Indians had ap
peared. It is moll probable the Britifli
discovering their intention, have had a
talk, and have removed their diffatisfafti
on, and encouraged them to continue war.
This would seem to be confirmed by the
accounts via New-York. Ensign Brad
ftaw and lieutenant Hulton had fallen in
a d " eL They fought with rifled barrel
pistols, at 10 paces distance. Both fell
at the fame instant. Bradfhaw shot
through the breast ; Hufton in the fide.
The former expired after a few convulsi
ons; the latter languiflietK two days
The cause of the difference, tome trifffi <•
m;fundcrfl;mding, a nd altercation jfr*
words.
General Wayne hadjWpared to march
to Au-GWze river, where there were said
■ to be 200 collected. The Mia
■ j mi toft-ns were deserted, so that it was
urinecefi'aiy to pursue the lame route which
i General St. Clair had intended.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 12.
By Capt. Drinkwater from Portland, dif
tri# of Maine, we learn that a vellel arriv
ed there the last day of March, on board of
which were 6o American seamen, who had
been captured in the Weft Indies.
The number of American captures in the
Weft Indies has been gradually encrealiog in
the Newspaper accounts till it now amounts,
according to an estimate published tn a Char
lellon paper, » to not fcris than fix hundred
fail." r •
It has that the Amluf
cade French Frigate, had captured and
carried into Norfolk, the British Frigate
Hussar, on Thursday the 3d inft. The
Virginia Chronicle, of Saturday the sth,
contains no account of this affair.
The (hip Charleston, Capt. Garman, fails
for Charleston to-morrow morning. On
board this veiTeli are lhipped 28 pieces of hea
vy brass howitzers, and brai's and iron can
non, with their carriages, &c. also a large
quantity of cannon ball, &c. belonging to
the magazines of the United States, and sent
to Charleston for the defence of that har
bour.
A sensible Quaker in London, hearing ma
ny complain of the length of the late Ame
rican war, and fay it was nursed and spun
out for the emolument of Generals, Admi
rals, Commanders and Contractors, replied
he could promise- a plan to have all wars
brought rj 1 speedy conclusion. It was to
allow all officers by sea and land full pay in
time o* peace—and only half pay wliilft a
war laired.
Extra# of a letter da ed St. Croix, the ill
March to a merchant in this city.
'' We are this day relieved from our ap
prehensions of a war between .Britain and
America, in consequence of the late instruc
tions from the court of London, to refpedt
neutral bottoms, and to marce reftirution for
all neutral captures, except itf.-h as the uni
versal law of nations prollribe, tc wit—A
neutral to introduce supplies in the
moment of" in vaiicn, &c. &c. This is joyful
tidings tor those who do not come within il:e
that article antVour people begin to
believe there is no latitude."
Senate of Pennfyl-vanim.
Yeftei'day the Comptroller-General of the
Commonwealth attended in the Senate cham
ber, to hear the decision of that hcufe in re
gard to his trial, when the Speaker, agree
able to resolution, informed Mr. NichoUcn,
that the Senate had not found him guilty of
a.l or any of the articles oi impeachment ex
hibited againll him by the House of Repre
■ ntati\*es, and that therefore he was uow dis
charged. Shortly after Mr. Nicholfon wait
. Ed on the Governor and gave in his resigna
tion, which was accepted.
The office which this gentleman has filled
exatfly 14 years ending with this day, is
consequently vacant.
A writer in the New-York Diary of
Thursday last, speaking of " the m<fafures
which the exigency of publtc affairs de
mands," says—Amongst the foremoft of
which, is immediately to convene a Meet
ing of our Fellow Citizens; in order to
express our entire concurrence in the mo
tion made by Mr. Dayton in Congress, for
The Sequejlration of Brilijh Debts.
' Tis idle and ridiculous to talk of honor
and generality to a gang of thieves and
plunderers. The discharge of one blun
deibtifs loaded with slugs, will do more
execution, and flxike more terror into the
hearts tif the banditti, t.han the parade of
a hundred fuords, regularly measured
with paces and distances marked out in
due form. The Mortar is already eleva
ted and pointed—To elude the Bomb is
impoflible— but to make effectual it should
be vertical—not a second counted betwixt
the slash and the explosion—there is not a
moment to be loft—put the match to the
touch-hole—the glorious effect is certain
—the golden opportunity 101 l will be irre
coverable.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April n.
The folioupr persons we uijderftand
were lall ntgfif nominated by tfie Demo
crats Society as candidates at the enfuine
election. 6
For Senators.
Thomas Thomas, David Gelfton.
Affcmblymen.
Samuel Ofgood, Wm. Denning.
E.Stevens, Jn^.tSpbell,
Jno. Broome. Thos. Farmer,
Peter R. Livingfton.
THE TIMES, No. 111.
A Guillotine! a guillotine in America !
What, this terrible instrument of death,
that chops off heads, as a butcher's cleav
er fevers the joints of a quarter of lamb !
Bless our hearts and fouls! Let us go to
town and fee the engine of the King of
Terrors, that mows in
France like noisome weedslH
Well, what is a guillotine a ma
chine as simple as a turner's lathe, or a
b'ack-fmith's vise. It is not half so great
a curiosity as Kingfley's brick-mill, or the
new machine for clearing wheat ; and the
machines used in the cotton manufactures,
are infinitely more ingenious works, and
as much greater curiosities, than the guil
lotine, as a ship is greater than an Indian
canoe !
Yet all the world mull go to fee the guil
lotine : I am glad for the fake of citizen
Baker i but tell me, gentle readers, why
ciiMhzed man delights to hear of blood and
llaughter, and to fee even the inllrument of
the horrid business ? j
Is man a tyger, a savage, retrained only
by laws and a little education; but let Wfe
from these, delighting in war, in death &
all the horrid deeds of savage ferocity.
Say, ye casuists, what is man, this noblest
work of God, when honest ; but inflamed
by paflion, what is he but a beast of prey ?
A more ingenious animal indeed ; for the
beast has the teeth, the horns, and the
poisonous sting that nature gave him to
dellroy his adversary ; but man has im
proved upon the works of nature and in
vented numberlefg weapons of definition.
One part of men are forging bloody in- |
- Itrument, to flay another part, anda third,
more fortunate perhans, amiqMHHfclves
with staring at the horrid fpeclß
BALTIMORE, April 10.
Extract of a letter from the captain of an
American vefTel, to his owners in this
place, dated Falmouth, Jan. 8, 1794.
A report is current here, and gene
rally believed, that immediately after the
meeting of 'parliament, Great Britain
will declare war againll America. In
co.ilequeuce of the on
the 6th November, upwards pri
vateers have been fitted out, from the
different ports of this kingdom ; one of
which sent in here, a few days ago, the
ship Active, of Philadelphia, with a cargo I
valued at 50,0001. She is condemned &
to be fold for the benefit of the captors.
A war between America and England ap
pears certain—it is the common topic, &
ex peeled by every body. By the king's
proclamation we are liable to seizure—
but as we have put in here in distress, I
prefums the rigor of the law will not be
enforced.
" This day failed from here, a large
fleet, under convoy, for the Baltic.. A
Spanish 74 gun ship, with 500,000 dol
lars on board, is now lying heie: it is
part of the cash intended for government,
on account oftheNootka-Sound business."
IMPROMPTU ON PEACE.
Come sacred peace—from Heaven descend,
True source of bliss—and Freedom's friend;
Let Gallia fee thy smiling form,
AfTuage her woes—allay the storm ;
And Liberty in thy bright car—
| Rife o'er the war. V
Let Albion, combin'd,
Ke-fheathe bless mankind.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Schr. Betsey, Betterton, N.Orleans ■so
CLEARED.
Brig Fox, Miller, New York
Sloop Betsey, Floyd, Cherry Stone
Concluding Sale^^|K
THE Subscriber having entertd into Co
partHfii ship with.Mr. John Bartholomew in
tlie bufin«f» of Sugar Refining, will difsole
of the
Remaining Stock on hand *
CONSISTING of
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture;. &c. &c.
By Wholesale.at Prime Cojl for Cajh.
John Dorfey,
No. 22, North 3d street.
Ap'il '2- tuth&s6w
I -
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
Please to give the following Extradla place
in your paper, and thereby oblige
A Customer.
extract.
FROM all th' nnfettled humours of the
land,
Seflition forms her motley daring band •
With gracdefi front, and senseless ftunnine
none, °
to drown their country's peaceful
Though widows weep, and orphan children
ltarve,
Through blood, to place and wealth, their
way they'd carve.—
The proud inferior levelling's his part,
However mafk'd, a tyrant in his heart;
1 lie desperate, whoft ebbing calh runs low,
From privateering trusts to fee it flow ;
Who pants for fame, with fond conceit elate
Dreams of each rogue, who rose to rnle a
state;
The mob-led patriot, idol of a day,
The goods of peace would fell for one huiza ;
The prrvate fcoundrsl, full of public zeal, -
. Thinks none so fit to guide the common-
I weal ;
! Dfappointed Jlatefmcn, join in the cry,
i St, credit give to ev'ry NEws-made lie :
' A C t nt n g b :2° ts s°' m th' atheill hordes,
i And thirst, with blood, to stain their mur
d ring swords.
Thus motley, clalhing interests combine,
Which no good caule could e'er unite & join :
1 hus anarchy to government pretends,
And freedom's parricides are deem'd her
rriends.
Such fn nds as brought proud Athens to the
ground,
As Rom. once nurs'd, Columbia now has
iound.—
The fruitful bough, that breaks beneath it's
weight;
Thecrouded fail,that fmks th,-golden freight;
Theblood too rich,that
i he hijfh fwoln ftrcam, that drowns the fer
tilb plain ;
To thefeas mirrors freedom may resort,
And let her wanton, senseless, cruel sport:
» j „ the mock patriot's clearly to he seen,
And all the imfcluet's of the frantic fcer.c.—
O hberty ! the lull thy charms inspire,
a o> l s , thyfclf ' and sets world on fire.
Chaste hberty, may God prataQ and hie!,,
And damn the prostitute thanes hef dress !
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
April 1,2. , •
Will be performed,
A TRAGEDY, called
MACBE T H.
With the Original M ile and Accompani
ments, by M. Locke.
The Vccal parts by MeflVs. Mar(hall,Dar
ley, jun. Lee, Bason, Rowfon, Mrs. Mar
shall. Mrs. Warrell, Mrs. Rowfon, Mrs.
Bates, Mrs. Fir.ch, Miss Willems, Miss
Rowfon, and Miss. Broadhurft.
With new Scenery, designed and executed
by Mr. Milbourne.
To which will be added,
-A FARCE, called
Miss in her Teens,
OR THE
Medley of Lovers.
Captain Loveit, Mr. Green
i reble, with a song in charaa C r,Mr.Marlhall
Captain Flafli, Mr. Chalmers
, ' Mr. Morris
£ f P er >, Mr. Francis
_r»??'_. Mrs. Rowfon
Bldd y Bellair, Mrs. Marlhall.
ces in the Boxes to be taken at the Box-
Hp 11 ' he 1 hfatre, at any hour fromnine,
lirme morning till three o'clock in the after
noon, c n the day of performance. Tickets
to be had at the office near the Theatre, at
the corner of Sixth-flreet,and at Carr & Co's
Muficalßepofitory, No. 122, Market-street
Ladies and Gentlemen are requefttd to:
fend their servants to keep places, at half aa
hour pall 4 o'clock, and to order them to
withdraw, as soon as the company are seated
as they cannot on any account be permitted '
to remain in the boxes, nor any places Kent
after the firft acfh
*** -As inconveniences to the public have '
arisen from the Box book being open on the
days of performance only, in future attende '
ance will be giv, n at the office in the Th eatre .
every day from ten 'till one, and on the days
of performance from ten till three o'clock in
D»the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, it is
refpe&fully requested, may be addrelTed, to
Mr. Franklin, at the Box Office.
Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarters
of a dollar-jand Gallery, half a dollar.
No placCT can be let in the fide bgxes for a
less number than eight, nor any places re
tained after the firft ail.
The D*rs will be opened at half after
5 and the performances begin at half after 6
o'clock precisely.ADVERTISEMENT.
f ? SALES at NEW-YORK, by A. L.
BLLECKZR & SCAS,
OrrThurfday the ijth May next at Twelve
at the Tontine Ccffee House,
* THE FOLLOWING
of Land,
In Watkins and Flint j purchase, iu the coun
* ty of Tiega, state of New York.
The containing acres
Soutbweft quar. of "Townflr.p No. 2, 9,424
North we ft do. do. 4, 5,6 4-
Nortbeaft do. do. 6, 10,32$
Soathweft do. do. 7, 9DOQ
Southwest. do. do. 8, '
Northwest do. do. 8, w/B
Southeast do. do. 9, 67T5
Southed do, do. I-% 9, 000
North weft do. do. 10, *0,475
To,5 21
Theftlands are rapidly encreafing in value,
large fettJements are already made in feveial
oi the town&ips; the goodneis of ToU, and
the advantages in point of situation being so
well known, render any further description
unneeeflary. Amip of the tracts and condi
tions of sale may beatfeen at No. io, Queen
street, New-York.
jfyrtf id. tutb&s ti4M
Rape State of Maryland.
# J High Court of Chancery,
BenjaminGaither > March sth. 1794.
and x
Basil Gaither
The Complainant states
in his bill that the defendants Benjamin Gai
ther a; d Basil Gaither were seized in fee as J
tenant? in common of a tract of land in Fre
derick Coonty, called Hammond's Str fc j
that being fa seised, Basil executed a power j
of attorney to Becjam'-n authorizing him to '
(W1 his, the said Bafii's interefl in the fa d |
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin fold
the said land to a ce-tain -William Ga» r her for I
the consideration of!ix hundred pou- ds which j
hath been lince paid, that the f*'d William
hath alfigned to the Complainant Henry Rape
the bond execat'd. by rhfe said Be'jau»in for
tlw of t»e fa d ianc : The Com
pjpina n now further it ales (ard f«> appears •
to ttie Chancellor) rhat the defendants a--e I
noa-re»idents of tifettate of and
he re fore >ut of the reach of the process of
tbi? court.
It is tbe r efore adjudged and ordered, that
the Complainant procure a copy of this or J
der to be in<erred n tiie newspaper of Angell
an 1 Sul ivan. and n the United States Gazette
a 1 !e jfrthreJHfccs successively, befose the
twint: -h JJnAif next to the intent
that tlie Defe and-all others, wlnr IIW?
in the prfrnif
es, ma/aavc npt>ce to appear in tbit co'Srt,
on >r before third TucTdav in September
next, to fhcauCe wherefore (htfuld
not parsfor*eft*ngin the a com
plete legal title toti* land jforefaid.
Teff,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Car. Con.
March ,8. tuth&s3w
df This Gazette JhaU be enlarged, at it
receives encouragement—The Sabfcr'tption
encrtafti daily—Adverting Favors are
Jolicited —Tbefe onjlitute an ejfential Item
m dim in jbing the Debit Jide of the Account.
Just Published,
• AKD TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOB SON,
At tbe Scone houle, No. 41, South-Second
Street,
Historical Collections :
CONSISTING OF
STATE PAPERS,
And other authentic Documents, intended as
% materials for an History of the United States
of America.
By EBtNEZER HAZARD, A. M.
In two large quarto volu-m-s, price ten dol- i
lars in boards.
Subscribers will be furniOied with
voforae on pavi»ig.three dol«*s and a quafl|
—having paid fife dollars and a quarter on
receiving tbe firff.
This second volume comprehends, among
other inrerefting part cular?, a complete co
py of the Recordsot the United Colonies of
N. England, in which the? eonduft of the com
rniffioners relpecti-.g the general concerns of
the colonies—-the neighboring Indians.—and
the Dutch at Manhaums (now Ne* York) is
particularly detailed.
%* Materials are collected fufficient to
form a THIRD VOLUME, The time of I
*iil depend oo tbe. encouragement
tp be derived f'om tublcriptipni woich wi.i be
received by Thomas Dohfon, Philadelphia ;
Jere Libbey, Portfaoutb, New Ham pfcirc; 1
Tho.nas & Andrews, 4c Dav. West.Boston; If
* a Thomai, Worcester ; Isaac B en, New-
H iven; Timothy Greer, New London; Jacob
R : chaTdfo", Newport; John Carttr, Provi- 1
dence; Hugh Gaine, Thomas Allen,e and
-Samuel Campbell, New York; Fred rick
Crfig, W. Imington, Delaware; James Ri<*, I
Baltimore; Mr. LiadA>>, NoHoj| • Dav*d
Fredericksburg;
pctsHburg; Augulline Davis, Richmond;
X- Martin, NeniSrn, N. C. John Bradley,
W-'mingtor.; aud Wilaam Price Vnng,Char
laiflfc
Apxil 4- mw&f^w
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the oi" the United States.
All authorizations tending to
infringe waMicutraiity, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agenu of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, fccond year of
the French Republic, one and indlvifible
(March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
The Mimfter Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAJJCHET.
The Editors of newipapers, witTiin the
! United States,are requtfled to republish the
) foregoing notice. d
k
From iflpflJ iblin, and Glaigpw,
By MOT' W CAR EY,
No. 115, Mnrkii-Jlrett,
A Large a*d Ys nab'-e
COLLECTION BOOKS,
A railing which are the following :
XEW Annual ftegifter for 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of '793
Gibbons decline and fall of the-RomanEmpire
-Memoirs of the Manth*fter loeietv, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on chriiJianity
I Disney's life of Dr. Jortin
D Anville's ancient geography
Memoirs of Guy Joli
Variety,a collection of elTays
King ofpruflia'* works
Calm observer— by Mackintolh
RufieU's ancient a. d mode u Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, fuperb'y gift
Elegant extract? of naural b : ftory
I and Briffon's voyage
I Rochon's vovajc to .Madagascar
j Town/end's travels in Spain
ThjlVs Jerusalem de. veTed
Smelfie's tranflatior of Buribn
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
| Bu.foa abridged
j of b:rds
' P.iJ p»'s history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
. Cun« .ities of literature, 3 vols.
5 I of queen Mary
| 2 vols.
I Hmdoihn
SketcfSßWrie Hindoos
Key to polite literature*
* I inlay's dt/criptiun of Kentucky
Pi efent state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
e P efton on masonry
[. Livater on abridged ,
Zimrae« man's survey
5 lite of Dr. Johrfon
1 Neclgejjpn executive power
En Seoundus
r Oalierv of portraits
1 of empires'
els
ValllSnt's travels, with superb engravings
Downmar.'s infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
B* angton on materialifin and iiniiiaterialiim
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazjne
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
' De Non's travels
r Franklin's life and works
f G. ozier's of China
Murphy's tranllat on of Tacitus
1 Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetlqs otrman *
Kaimes's (ketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Bemgnus
Mawe's gardener's dnflionary
>?obie's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhoofe dictionary
Reveries of iolitude
Smith's theory of moral fentimcnts
Scackhoufe's history of the b'.ble
Watson's life of Philip I Id. &: Hid.
i Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
; Waaler's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallis on the prevention of dileafes
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travelsintoDeniiiarkTAuiCafPoiandy&c.
» Cox's travels .into Switzerland
pabant's history of tbeJtarch revolution
Life of Lord Chathaml^^
Ma'let's northern and|^^H^^
Motherbj's medical dtMffiary
Gzigg'% adv icexo females
L Jiamilten's oothncs of the practice of mid
* wifcry
Manning's practice of plytic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong ondifeafes of children
Qninqdld fpe jfatory
ifpe nfa 101 y
*
RyJWBKhe asthma
Robert Ton's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leafceon the vifcerai
J-eake on difeaies of vogien
rsicholion's cbemiftry
" Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering oq the fox glove
Lind on thc'Aeates of beat
' Monro opflifeafes of dKiies
physiology
Spalanzane's di fler tat ion s
London practice ofphyfic
Bell's surgery
Chanral'« rfymiftrv
1 Samuel Coates,
At bis Store, No- 82, froth Front Jlrttti
HATH FOR. SALE,
94 Barrclt
New Hngland Beef,
*9 barrels liver oil,
25 barrels Cider,
q~ Soxes of Candles*
1500 pair of men's leather {boes
642 bufliels of Barley
1 A quantity of Tow Uncn
Ditto, of New-England Soal leather
40 bags of excellent corton
4 Doxej of Chocolate
3000 wt. of Alfpice
+:g cases of the be A Holland gin.
Ap.;l i. «eod?w
- Jufl Imported,
In 35? Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Petci (burelii^Biflia,
And now* landing at* Wharf, viz.
tthmp, V
fl IRON (s _
RUSSIA'SHtETIN%,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 2a, Walnut-llreet.
March 4,1794. diwjtawrf
For Sale bj tbc Subscribers,
MUSCOVADO Sugar in hhds. &bbsL
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, in pipes
and quarter calks.
Spanilh Indigo.
Bolton Beef, in barrels.
And a fmaii invoke of Muilins.
NALBRO' & JOHN FRAZIER,
No. 164, South Front-street.
March 8. fraw4w
TO BE SOLD,
And entered upon the firil of May,
Tbe noted EJlate, called
JohnJbn Hall:
Ly:r. fc in the Kiuna*k cuoiury, ftatcof New
York, formerly the feat of Sir William Jobn
fon, containing about fevrn hundred acrcs of
land, which is of the very best quality ; toge
ther with the ilock, and tanning utcnfils. The
buildings are large and convenient, and fit for
a gentleman's feat. The payments will be made
eafv, on good fecur-iy. For further particulars
« nquire of George Met calf, Elq. on the premif
fs, of S las Talbot, £iq. at Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Brothcis, in New York, or
of the fuofcriber in Providence.
Jtibez Bo wen.
Philad. March 26 mw&t'i m
The following Certifi
caie of the funded three pei Cent Siock o! tne
Domestic Debt oi the Unued States Handing on
tne books of the Treafuiy of thr said United
1 States, in tbe names ol Don n aid aod Burton of
London, meichants. and signed by Jofcph
Nourfe, Register of said "£#eafury, to wii
No. 547®! datrd 24 h August 1792 for £959
aonar s and 53 cents was nanfmitted from Lon
don in the ihip Pctei, Paul Huffev, mailer,
fecund tor New York, aod has been left.—
The Subscriber intending 10 apply 10 the Trea
fuiy of the Uoited States to have the fame re
newed ~dci\res all persons who are interested in
the said ceitiSca c, to make their
thereto, :f any they have.
Francis Macy.
Philad. Myrch 27. d6w
Lately PubJifhed.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
The History or Ntw-Himi (hire, lium ihr
D:<covery of ibe River Pifcataqua by Je
nmiah Bt/iup, D. D 3 VoU. Price 10 Board.
4 t 2 Dollars.
The fotreftcr, an American Fable, being a
Sequel*o the Hillory of John Bull tbe Cioibier.
Prce, 75 Cents.
A Dncourfc, intended 10 commemorate ibe
Diicowery of America hy CnriAopher Coiom
bus; delivered at the requtft ol ihe Hiitorical
1 Society in Massachusetts, Oflober ejd, 1792,
being the complecon of the Third Cen:'unj
since that memorable event. To which are
• - 4erf, Fur I) ff-rtatiot.j, cout eded with the
lubjrfi—By the fame author Price, jo Cen:«.
March 17. mthA^w
The annual election
for
Directors and a Treasurer
OF THE
Library Company of Philadelphia,
WlLLbebeld at the Lis*a*y, in Filtn
street m Monday the fifth of May next, at
three 0 c.ock in the afternoor, when the trea
surer will attend to receive the annual pay
meets. r *
As there are A,a ; fc on which
are due, the ovrrers of ,he» s or tfeeir rep-e
---lentatives, are hereby „„ t ifi ef ., that thev
be agiaeHfty to the Uwj of the ,
3 ' ears off ,
o„ the filtn day of May, pr » ithin |f f n d 1
alter. —^
By O r«r of the DireftoTC^
BENJAMIN R. .MORGAN,
' Secretary
pril • ir.&w t jth May.
George Bringhurft, *•
COACH-MAKER,
Id Mulberry (Arc; b_ tween Fourth ani fifth
adjoining the Episcopal karj mg
ground,
'T'AKES this opportunity of returning hi,
JL grateful thanks to his farmer employers,
and requeuing their iuture fa tors, a>i well u
tho<e ot' the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
shortest notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coacbes, chariots, plasters with a->d
without crane necks, coachces, ckaifc-s, kitte
reens, windlbr fillkeys and chairs, and lurnefs
ofevary defcriptiorj in the neatest and cew<?ft
iufhion now prevailing <u the United States
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workman, he has
not the leafl doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaftion to those whopleafe to employ Dim.
He has for sale, several carriages a'muj
finilhed, such as coaehees, an Italian wind'or
chair, hung 011 steel springs, a !ig!* pl.xton for
one or two horles, and a (uikey with afaiiin*
top.
Carriages fold en Gommiffioii.
Philadelphia, [an. 6, 1794
To be Sold at Public Vendue r y
On Friday the nthdavof Apr 3 nest,
at the house of 'Jeh* Tbotufon, in Perth-
Arab oy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
r I Lot contains eleven acres, on which is
-I an orchard ol giaf ted apple trees. a veil of
excellent water, a large (lore c stern, ar.d a »crj
commodious (table <*ud coich-houfe, and a jpcat
quantity of the belVbutiding ft ones in rbc walls
of the house, which was formerly buihtor the
residence ol the Governors of New-Jerky,
fiction of this Lot is so well knows for its
heai:h inefs and beautiful profpeS of the Rari-oo
river to the wcii of the bav, aod Sandy-Hock to
the east, thai a fun her defoiptien isuaaeceffrry.
The condi::o<u ot sale will he, one third of the
pure ha fe money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, wl>«« a gooo and (uffic:».xit Deed will
be given to thr purrbafcr, by Walter Ru
therflrd, Esq. Pieiideiit <»f the Board of
Proprietors of the Eaßern Division of New.
Jersey, and the rern2in:ng two thirds la:ista6Lt>-
rily fccured in equal annual payments.
By order of the s
JAMES FARKER, Rcgiflcr.
Perth-Ambox. Frbrvarx 2a* sen
juit Published,
; In one nandiome volume, i2tnc. Price 5s
AND FOE SALE 2V
- JOHN ORMROD,
r At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Second
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of M&n 1 .
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL wis adjaugea, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem,
Correfle'd atui Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D."D.
Profeflor of Moral Ph lufophjt, and r*e Law
ol Nature, and of Ecciefiafticai History ;
and Miailtr of the Eugiifli Church at C
, trecht.
Aliquid lemper ad communem utilinrem a£
fer-ndum. Gctao.
The FirJ} American JZdtiioti.
THE grand pi inciple ot Equality, if right
ly understood, is the orr t y baCi on which
universal juflice, (acred order, and perfect
freedom, can be firmly btrlt, and permanent
ly secured. The vewof it exhibited in this
eflay, at the fame time that it repre/6-s the
inj'nlence of office, the tyranny of pr=de, and
the outrages ot oppreiEon ; cnnfirn.f, m tl*
mod forcible manner, the neceffitv cf subor
dination, ai d the just demands of lawtu) au
thority. So far indeed, from looienirg the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every cSvil d-ftinflion,
draws ipore closely every focral tie, unites in
ooe harmonious and justly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. end 1 w*ufeftf
JAMES. LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public, That from ihe t
he has received, from several refoedablc Gcatlc
wien, he is induced once more, to embark in the
LlNE—and would offer h;s fc-%i es to
all ibofe Gentiemtn, who can piace
in him ; and he allures tiioCe who employ htm,
that th-ir confidcoce (hail not be' misplaced
but it (hz*! be his coitlla*tt endeavor, to pay the
ftri6t< ft attentioii inthrir best interest, inil! oe
gociations whaicwrr. He has taken the Chamber
in State-Street, over Mr. I'cunfend. Watch
Make 's Shop. Vhcre PUBLIC .SECURI
TIES, of all kinds, are bouzht iold ; aad
where Commiffi.»n BuGiicfs of all kinds, wiß be
teafonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be conftatuly c&pcfed for faie, on
com million.
*** Ca(h paid for Salem, Providence, atd'
Poi:fau>uth BIL: S
N. B. If any Gentleman in Pfnliusefpl •*, or
Xew- Y/ek. Bukzefi tc trawJaQ at leftm
™ ke illU be happy lake
pia\Arf» LCKviJkn.
Jan.'2 4> , 79v . m»i: f
■ ' M-
PHILmpLPHIA :
Pristed*' by JOHN FENNO, No '3,
• South Fourth-Sn cet.
V