€vt.Hlt r of <.i,f States
EVE
[No. 70 of Vol. V.]
For SALE,
"•*1 The Schooner
NEPTUNE
i (Lying at Morton's Wharf)
7 ' She is a good strong vef
&£s£*•* t vj*-- ess, burthen about 500 bar
rels, and fails remarkably
foil. Inventory may be seen on board, or at
tiie Store of the Subscribers.
Whartotf ?5f Lewis.
dtf
Pfb. 18, 1794
For Sale or Charter,
jTT,-. The Ship
J®. ANDROMACHE,
(an American bottom)
jfo/:/: j£Bo/r, Mailer ;
Is a iiout good veiTd, about two years old,
burthen *32 tons,* Has only made three voy
ages, and may be sent to Tea at a fimall ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms jnade known by application to
' F/barton y Leivis.
dtf
Feb. 2i, 1794,
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. Rice,
No. 50, High-Street,
(Price One Dollar)
The Gentleman's
Pocket Library.
CONTAINING,
I. The Principles of Politeness.
1. The Economy of Human Life.
3. Rochefoucauld's Mora! Refle^iortf.
4. Aphorisms on Man.
5. The Polite Philolbpher.
6. The way to Wealth, by Dr. Franklin.
7 k Sek?& Sentences.
8. Detached SentehcA.
y. Old Italian, Spanifli and English Pro
verbs.
10. A Tablet of Memory.
March 3. 4t
AVIS.
LE habit? ns iniortmies de la ColonieFrany .iife
de St. qui riaos Tinceodic du
Cap fa... vciiiu. cherchvt un aftle daus le* Etats
U«»is font id forme* que a Repuhlique leur ac
co'de uii paifage pour France. lis font iovi'es
eo confcqucncc a fc presenter a cci ctfct d'iri a
huit jouis cKcr. le* Consuls 8c de !a Re
publiquc dan* It s differ, uik Piutsdes Etats Urns.
A Phi k ad-f. lfhik, le 10 Wntos— i'an ad <)e
la Republtqur Franpaife un** & in/d'vifible.
{28 Fevricr, 1794. vteuxflile)
Lr Miniftre Plenipoieotiaie dc la Repubhquc
Fran^aifc.
The edito*.j cf newspapers in He United stales « t
reqaejled to infcri the a>'t,ve notice in their paper. 8:
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at bis Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street :—
A few of R iflia Sheetings,
B-trcfioua Handkerchiefs in Roxc*,
A ba'r of low-priced CoUon Handkerchiefs,
A Qiiaaiuy of Souchong Te a, Hy/on and
Toitkay, ditto.
Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Biv'mftone,
With a Variety o* other Go6ds.
Feb. »o.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogf>rad» and in cafcs of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In hogfhcads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, Souih Frout«tfreei.
Jm. », 1794.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths fcf Jewellers,
No. 42,
10UTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant JJfortnent of
SILVER fcf PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY Wfne CUTLERY,
Wkiab (bejr will dispose of on the molt rea
fonabto termi- Dnirn in hair, Miniatorei
felt, ml errrjr thing in Che gold and filvei
way, don* as afaal-
Dtccmbcr 34-
N I N
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt* Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-ilreet wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Ducky
Ditto Oznaburgj,
Holland Sheet'mg>
yunify*r Berrites,
Glajs Ware, uh,. Tumblers and Mugs, 'va
rious ftzes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, fqvnre and. Jlat bars,
J/«/r Ribband, A r <7.4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity 6f Junk anil Oakum, £s'c. 6iV.
FOR SALE BY
Tht above-mejiiioned Ship is for Sale-—
jhould appiicat:on be'made within a few days ;
other wife Jhe will takefreight for Amjler
d&m.
March i, 1794.
By Mathew Carey,
Love in a Village,
A COMIC OPERA,
As performed at the New Theatre,
Feb. 28.
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Tafcon from actual survey, bv A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
r T~ , HIS P',a.n will bfi engraved on a plat* 26
inches fqu*re •> dud ii will contain an ex
att description'of all the squares, ftrcets iind
alleys m ihc City and Liberties, The situation
of the several public buildings, foch as the State-
Htf»Ule, City-liall, Seal of Congiefs, Churches,
Merting-Houfes, Hospital, L.ibraiy and Sernina
nes of Learning— of the fcveral Banks, and of
the Federal and State Offices, will be ascertained.
The parts which a:e built on will be diftinguifti
ed from those that are not. The court's of the
nvnlets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much rrf the Canal, intended to conne6l the
navigation of these two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineated. Ii will also be ornamented by a
view of the (hipping in the harbor, and an ele
vation of 'Congress-Hall, and of rtie other public
buildings t4>at occupy the ground contiguous.
In short, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufefularid desirable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author*6 power :
and it shall be eomplcated with the greatest
pof&ble c ifpajch, as soon as the generous encou
ragement of fublcribeis shall infureto the author
such a sum a? will be fufficiciU to defray ex
peaces.
JH. FAUCHET.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the Subfcnbers names, and infoxmaiion con
cerning the police, population and prcfent state
of the city.
The price to will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at the time of deliver
ing the Plans.
3<aw6w
Subscriptions will be gratefully, received at
the principal Booksellers m this citv—andthe
original Draft- may be seen at B. Davie.*',.
No. 68, Maikft-ftreet, at any time until it shall
be put inro the hauds of the Engraver.
Feb. 28.
Treasur rofPsNxsrL vania,
February 14, 1794.
PUBLIC Nbrice is hereby given to ast persons
indebted to the Commonwealth, for monies
borrowed of the Trustees of the Loan Office,
cftablithed per «j£l of the 4th of April, 1785,
that the time is expired when the last- payment
fbnuld have been made, and every jufftfiable
indulgence having been granted, That unless
1 hey come forward and pav off their refpedive
balances on or before the firft day of April next,
precept 1 v. ill jtfue against all delinquents with
out regard to pejfoni or circnmitanccs. All
former and existing Ibei iff|, who have rffoncy
in their hands belonging to said Office, are re
qoefhrd to bring it to me on or before the above
period, other wife I (hall be under the disagree
able neccflity of prosecuting them without dif
tinfiion.
P S. The Primers throughout the State are
requcttcd ;o iiiiert tJie above in their papers for
the luformatioQ of their feLowrciti/ens.
sw&ftf
G ADVERTISER.
Tuesday, March 4, 1794.
THOMAS Ii.ETi.AND, Jun
JUST PUBLISHED,
(Price Twenty Cents)
No. 118, Market-Street,
Chefnut-Street.
3t
PROPOSALS
OF THE
CHRISTIAN FEBIGER.
AND
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased,
TheHoufe N°. 245,
Lot of Ground
On which it Hands, wherein Jam es Biddle
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
street, near Sixth-street.
THE Houie being 18 feet io inches in
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold fub
je<ft to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their fucceflors
forever. For terms apply to
Samuel Coatfs,
Jonathan Jones,
Anthony W. Morris,
Samuel Poavfll Griffith?,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, dec'd,
*eop 3W
d—tf
March i, 1794.
A Slitter of Iron
WANTED.
A MAN well /killed in rolling and
flitting Iron into Sheets, may have
good encouragement by calling on the
~ Feb. 27. eop4t
Printer.
BOOKS.
A CHOICE COLLECTION,
In the various branches of Literature, im
ported by the last arrivals from Europe,
for Sale at very reasonable prices, by
James Kennedy,
No. 26, Spruce f between Front & id Streets,
Among which are the following :
CHAMBERS'S Di&ionaiyof Arts and Sci
ences, 5 Vols. Folio.
Henry's Bible and Commentary, 6 Vols. Folio.
Univcrf.il History, 7 Vols. Folio.
Churchill'j, Collection of Voyages, 6 Vols. Folio.
Palladio's Architecture, bcft Edition, 2 Vols.
Folift in one.
Rapin's History of England, with Tindal's con-
t.inuarion, 3 Vo.'s, Folio.
Hume's Htftory of ditto, with SmoOei's ditto,
14 Vols. Octavo.
Malton's complete Treatise of Perfpeflive, 2
Vols, in one.
Brucc's Travels, London Edition, 5 Vols. 4to.
Clavigeio's History of Mexico, 2 do. do.
Robertfon's History of America, 2 do. do.
Maclaurin's Newton's Philosophy, 4to.
M'Knight'a Harmony of the GolpeU, do.
Lowman on the Revelations, do.
Locke on the Epistles, do.
Ledwick's Antiquities of Ireland, do.
Whitehui ft's "theory of the Earth, do.
Glifs's Account of the Canary Islands, do.
The Annual Register, from iis Commencement
to 1791, inclusive, 34 Vols.
Niebuhr's Voyage to Arabia, 2 Vols, O&avo.
Bartram's Travels thrd* the Southern States.
Some of the very latest and best Colle&ions of
Voyages and Travel*
Creviers Lives of the Roman Emperors 10 Vols.
Octavo.
L'Antiqujte expliqufe par B. Montlaucon, 15
Tom. so.
Antiqures d'Egyptc par Norden.
Diftionnaiic Hiftorique 9 Tom,
Theatre de Voltaire eleg. relie, 9 Tom.
Hiftoire Remain par Rollin, 16 Tom
Ocuyres de Boiltau, de Moliere, &c. with many
others equally good. A Catalogue of which
may be fern at the pface of Sale.
He has also for Sale,
An excellent Hadley's Quadrant.
A few Acromatic Pocket Perfpfrdlive GlatTes.
A Camera Obfcura.
A capital German Flute, with 6 Keys, and ad
ditional joints.
And a few elegant colour'd Piints,
Frb. ->8.
2awtf
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Cojfee-Hauf: of this
City :—
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippen-Street, be
tween Third and Fomth-Sireets, at ibe House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
his lately been greatly improved, and ib now
very commodious - r where he has iurnidied him
fejf with the befl of LIQUORS, anri will fur
nifh a TAJSLE for Parties, with the belt provi
sions the Markets afford, at any hour, oir the
Ihorirft notice. From his long experience in
this line of bufmets, he flatters himfclf be shall
be able to give fatisfattion to«U who may please
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29,1794.
A N D
*4 tco P.
[Whole No. 528.]
Congress of the United States«
House of Representatives.
January 30.
In committee of the whole on Mr. Madifun's
refulut'ions,
The following ought to have preceded
Mr. S, Smith's Speech publilhed laffi
Saturday.
Speech of Mr. Madison.
AS it appeared, he said, that most of
the objections against the proposed Reiu
iutious. had been made by those who*
meant to combat them, and that a ouef
tion would soon be called for ; it might
perhaps be expected that he should review
those objections, arid affijjn the rrafon*
which induced him to continue in the opi
nion lie at firft entertained. He wilhed it
not to be understood, that he meant to
examine every particular argument, which
in thecourfe of fo'extenfive a difcuflion,
had been opposed to the measure. The
committee mud have perceived that some
of them had been of a nature not to me
rit an answer ; and that others had fufß
ciently answered themselves. He should
extend his observations to such topics on
ly as might he thought to need explanati
on, and to have an influence on the quet
tion,
Previous, however, to this general fur 1 -
vey of the ground which had been- tra>
veiled over, he fliould so far presume on
the patienee of the committee, as to re
cm' to the original opposition made by
the member from South Carolina (Mr.
Smith); and to take notice of some par
ticulars in what had been urged by him,
which were left unanswered at the time.
The gentleman had thought proper to
introduce his discourse with a very un
merited attack on the late Secretary of
State, and to mingle with it a variety of
criticisms on the facts and opinions stated
in his report, on the fubjeft under consi
deration. The spirit and manner in
which the attack had been made, and
which could not have escaped the atten
tion of the committee, would be left in
that silence which may best express the
sentiment they must have inspired.
He (hould indeed have thought it left
necefiary to take further notice than he
had already done, of the matter of the
gentleman's remarks ; if attempts'had not
been made, particularly by a friend of the
gentleman (Mr. Am?s) to give a weight
to his ftatcments aiid Inferences, which it
would be {hewn they did not merit ; and
if the task did not afford an opportunity
of elucidating some particular points relied
on, by the opponents of the.Resolutions.
It was made a charge against the Secre
tary of State, that he takes no notice of
the higher duty imposed by Great Britain
on other foreign tobacco, than is imposed
on American, (the former being 3s. 6d.
(ler. per pound, the latter is. 3d.) wl.ilft
he takes care to mention the high duty
imposed on the American ; although the
diferimination is in favor of the United
States, and is againit Portugal, a country
in particular connexion with Great Bri
tain ; and although the high duty of r/3
is immaterial to the United States, being
paid by the consumer of tobacco in Great
Britain.
It was unfortunate for the gentleman
that this charge is- fallacious in every mem'
ber of it.
I. The discrimination is not j'n favour
of the United States, either in its inten
tion, or in its operation : not in its inten
tion, because it was made in reference to
this country, when it was a part of the
British Empire, and not in reference to
us as Independent States j not in its ope
ration, because if the discrimination were
abolished, it would bring no rival of our
tobacco into the British market. This is
proved by the fa£t, that ill other markets,
as that of France, where no such discri
mination exiftfr, the American tobacco i«
without a rival. It was well known that
this and the other apparent favors to this
country, were a remnant of the Old Coloma] cod?, which having become a dead
I itc: in the iUtute boo!;, had not yet
b.en tl» uck out of it.
1. If the difcr imitation ha Jno efiTe& in
f: .-r (.1 the United States, it conld-not,
si the iame rcalon, be a prejudice to Por
tugal. If it were neccflary and proper to
go into the euquiry» more dircdt proofs
CtoulJ he give# on thispoint.
3. High duties do affect the United
STaU'S whiclV pioducc the article,'though
j'.niil by the Britifti containers. They
he a double effect: They leiTcn tlie
quantity called for; and by leflening the
competition, they lessen also the price.
1 ilis wis a truth that could need no com-
rrie.it.
It was to be remarked however, that
the zeal of the gentl:m«Ti cn this fubjeit
y. 's that it had led him to extend
ti.e fallacy of his reasoning to rice, the
II • pie article of his own state. This arti
c>- '-".'s 1 duty of 7/4 fter. per hundred
weighty but like the duty on tobacco, be
ing pafd by the consumer, was laid to be
oi little concern to us.
vali liie price or rice los ftfcrli ner S the
d.ilv i;
t!. m G:
\v:ui cannot aiford to eat ric*e at the price
o» i of, and the class who are willing to eat
it at 17/4 are prohibited the confu.mption
by the duty. Wa3 this a circumstance of
no concern to rhe rice planters ?—The
gentleman (hould have been reminded of
his error by It is own arguments.
As an apology for the duty impofedirt
Great Britain, he tells* us it was meant to
prevent the use of ric? as a fuhjiitutr, for
the brea J-ftuffs produce d by Great Britain
herfelf. Without the preventing duty
th !i, rice would have b.'on fuljiltutcd in
place of wheat, in the opinion of the Bri
ti 'i Pirl unent, a;id the demand for it, 111
the Brit fh market, fa far increased.
As a merit in the Britilh Weft-India
rc-;.!l ; .ions ov-r thofc ot Fiance, it was
fined by tiie gentleman, that rice in the
Welt-Indies is a common food ; that in
the BHtifh, the importation bf it is free,
in the Fier.ch, subject to a duty* though
an inconsiderable one. It. Britain th.n,
W> .re there Is a high duty, rice "s not an
ni i.ele of common f*>ori *. in the islands
wnere there is no duty, it is a common
so »d ; and th? advantage of the British
vr c 'l I market to us over the French,
i :, t:\at the duty in the latter favors cheap-
ef fubjiituta
Another proof of the dlfpofition of
G,cat-Britain to favor the United States
in tie Weft-India market, is the prohibi
tiijn of al! fbroi rice but the American.
The fame remark may be repeated here,
wli vh was applied to the discrimination in
t.nvor of our tobacco. It is an oldcoloi:y
re atioo that has no effeil whatever.
What other foreign rice couid be brought
to the Weft-Indies ? Is it the East India
lie ■ ; That is prohibited by its dil'rance.
Is it the liee oi Portugal ? That is prohi
!<:.'«! by the laws of Portugal, and proba
bly also by the lower price e£ the Carolina
rice.
The inference which the gentleman had
d iwr.j'Yoni the comparative regulations of
Great Britain and Fiance on the fubjeft of
rice was so curious that it was worth a
moment's attention.
The fdtfts Mr. M. observed, stood thus.
In France the duty is 1-8 per cent. In
the French iflandt the duty is 1 percent.
In the British free with a prohibition of
other foreign rice.
As the duty of 1 per cent, is scarcely
and the prohibition, as (hewn, is
merely nominal, the inequality in the
illands may be regarded as too immaterial
to affe& the cotnparifon.
Pal Ting to the two prcfent states, the
duty in France is 1-8 per cent.—The du
ty in Great Britain, 50 or 60 percent.
Here then is nearly an equality in one
pait, and a difference of 50 or 60 per
ceot. in the other part of the two domini
ons ; and yet the gentleman could fay,
vus not easy to pronounce, whether the
article of rice Hands on a better footing
in the system of one, than in the system
of the other.
An'rther charge ngainft the Secretary
of State is, that his report calls the discri
minating duties in Great Britain in favor
<>t American wood, small, whereas thev
;.re confiderabie, and iu several inllances,
'■'gh.
( Speech to be etnt'wved.)
CJ" This Gazette Jhall he enlarged, at it
receives encouragement —The Snbfcription
t xcrettfet daily—AduxrUfmg Favors are
fo!Uited —Thefi con/litute an ejftnlial Item
in d'.mim/ling the Dibit Jsd* of the Account.
CONGRESS
H'ufe of Reprnfiiitativrs.
Friday, Feb. 18.
The Committee on Fortifications, bro't
in another report this day which was read
—this proposes fortifying m th« princi
pal ports of the United States.
Mr. Sedgwick called up a report of a
fcle& committee to whom it had been re
ferred, " to report whether any and what
sum was necetfary to be loaned for the
ferrice of the current year," the purport
of which was that it was expedient, that
tin- Preftdent fliould be authorised to bor
row 1,000,000 dollars if in his opinion the
fam< should be necessary. The report
was referred to the committee of the
whole,
After the report was read, Mr. Sedg
wick said it was the duty of the fele&
committee, to state the several steps which
had been taken in the progress of their
enquiry, and the fa&s which had come to
their knowledge, during the inveftig*-
tion ; that the result which was expressed
in their report, might have its merits de
cided on by the committee of the whole.
Mr. Sedgwick dated that however in
adequate the actual receipts of the reve
nue might be, to difftiarge all the de
mands which might be made on the go
vernment ; there was in fa ft no deficien
cy 111 the funds appropriated to the dif
clrarge of fhofe demands. The deficit
was owing merely to the credit which for
the convenience and benefit of trade, was
allowed to the merchants ; and that in fa ft
the bonded duties were more than equal
to face all the dem.inds which were con
templated. That this credit, it would
be remembered extended from four months
to two years.
He next dated that by the report now
in the pofleflion of the committee, the
deficiency ot the end of the present quar
ter would amount to 621 ,294 dollars and
18 cents. The- feleft committee were
not fully acquainted with the hank tranf
aftions in relation to the treasury, and
were uncertain, whether money deposited
in banks by collectors of revenue, was
considered as in the trcafurr from the
time of the deposit. He observed that
th'S doubt arose from considering the law
conftitutmg the treafu.-y department* by
which it appeared that the Secretary's
warrant well required for .paying
money in, as for ifTuinjj. it from the trea
sury. It might therefore happen, if on
the deposit, money whb not considered as
in the treasury, that the apparent deficit,
reported of 621,294 dollars and 18 cents,
might exist, while in fit ft, there might be
at the disposal of government, a fufficient
sum compleatly to answer every demand.
Mr. Sedgwick said that contemplating
the fubieft in this view the feleft commit
tee had thought it their dutv to submit
certain questions to the Secretary, which
they had accordingly done, the import
of which was, " whether money collect
ed on account of the United States, in
banks, was from the time of deposit, con
sidered as in the treasury ? Or, are any,
and if any, what means are neceflary to
subject money so to the con
trouf of the treasurer ? And in the latter
cafe, who is from the time of such depo
sit until it partes into the treasury, respon
sible to the United States ? Is any money
now so deposited, capable of being drawn
into the treasury ! And if anv, is the
probable amount filch, as to' render a pre
sent provision for a loan inexpedient or
unneceflary !"
Mr. Sedgwick then read a letter ad
tfreffed to him as Chairman of the Selefl
Committee, from the Secretary of the
Treasury ; with the following copy of
which, he has been good enough to fur
ni(h the printer.
Tieafury Department, Feb.
2jth, 1794.
SIR,
The following are answers to the questi
ons (fatted in your Letter of the 2 2d inft.
Answer to Qtu.llion the firft.
All monies colleded 011 account of the
United States, and depofied in the bants
to the credit of the Treasurer, are consid
ered as in the Treasury from the time of
the depvfit. The Heady course with re
gard to the (landing revenue is that the
money deposited in bank, patTes immedi
ately to the credit of the Treafuier.
But it is neceflary to discharge the pay
ers, that receipts of the Treafuter (hould
b« endorsed upon warrants signed by the
Secretary, couoterigncd by the Comp
troller, and regillered by the Rt* filler,
which is the corn fe regularly obfertcd.
Answer to Question the second.
Aft-.'r monies arc deposited in banks to
the credit 'of the Treasurer, they are in
his controul ; though they may not le
gally be di'hurfed but upon warrants 06
the above description. If deposited with
out palling in the firft instance to the cre
dit of the Treasurer, the means used for
placing them in his custody and disposal
are warrants of the like kind.
Answer to Question the third.
In rcfpeA to any monies of the Unit
ed States, depolited in banks but,not pas
sed to the credit of the Treasurer, the
banks are considered as directly refporifible
to the United States ; in the cafe of de
posits to the credit of the Tieafurer, they
are refporifible in the firft instance to him,
ultimately to the United States.
Answer to Quellion the fourth.
Only two cases are recollected, in which
monies of the United States, may be con
sidered as having been deposited in bank,
without palling in the firft instance into
the account of the Treasurer. These
relate ift. to the proceeds of foreign bills
fold for the government and received by
the bank (all accounts of which ai c now
finally closed) —2d. to thefumof 200,000
dollars, being ib.t only Jam now so deposit
ed which arises from the last loan had of
the bank. It is l»ft (fnbjeft to the even
tual decision of the legislature) as an off
fet against the second inftalmentof the two
million loan from the bank.
The effect: of the operation will be this
—An interest of fix per cent payable to
the bank upon the instalment will be ex.
tingiiifhed from the 31ft Dec. last by an
.interest of 5 per cent payable tothe bank
upon the sum borrowed of itfelf and left
in deposit. And it,has Been endeavour
ed thereby to preserve consistency & re
gularity in the arrangements of the Trea
sury. The fir ft instalment by leaving in
deposit an equal sum of the proceeds of
foreign bills was considered a3 effected on
the 31ft. December 1792, though there
was not power toconfummate the payment
till some months after. Hence it becomes
tegular that each succeeding instalment
(hould be paid on the last of Dcc. of each
year. The provifwnal measure, thus a
dopted, was the only expedient in the
power of the treasury to reconcile, as far
as practicable, considerations relative to
the public interest and credit, with legali
ty of procedure. Neither the sum in de
posit on the one hand, nor the instalment
payable to the bank on the other is bro't
into the probable state of cash lately pre
sented to the House of Reprcfentatives;
because they balance each other and leave
the result the fame.
Thereare noexiftifigfources from which
monies can come into the bank on account
of the United States, except from the
proceeds of the revenue, which as far. as
known are comprized in the statement
before the House of Representatives. So
that there is no resource but a loan which
can supply the deficit of receipt in the
course of the present and fucceedipg quar
ter compared with the expenditure ; with
out one, a failure in the public payments
is inevitable.
If what has been said rtiould not give
the committee the light they desire, it is
imagined that perfonalexplanations would
lead more fully to their object, than the
course of written interrogatories and an
swers which can only partially embrace the
fubje&, and may procrastinate a right un
demanding of it.
1 am, Sir,
With cfteem and regard,
Your molt
Obedt. Servant,.
ALEX. HAMILTON.
Theodore Sedgwick, Esq.
Chairman of the Committee.
After reading this letter Mr. Sedg
wick observed, that the business as tranf
afted, in the manner stated in tlie Secre
tary's letter, was the moil beneficial pos
sible for the United States, because it
prevented any money, at any time, collec
ted for the public, lying beyond the reach
of the government and useless.
He further observed, that gentlemen
would remember, th&t it was ncceffary
not only to provide for a deficiency which
might cxiJt at the end of the current
quarter, but also for that next succeeding.
That to enable the i'eleft committee to
discharge the duty which they owed to
the house in this refpeft, it had been tho't
expedient to call on the Secretary This
they had accordingly done; acdhad ex
tended their enquiry to that period, to ful
iiil the object of their commission. That
the estimate resulting in their report, was
formed of the bell materials they couid
collect. He said, that in several particu
lars, it was probable that the estimate
might not be juitified by events. It ought
however, to be remembered, that it was
the duty of the legislature, to put the pre
servation of the pnblic credit, almost be
yond the reach of the possibility of being
injured.
The firft article he mentioned was the
deficit which would exist on the firft of
April, amounting, as clearly reported to
the House to 621,294 dollars and 18
cents —!,000,000 florins were to be paid
in Holland by the Ift of July. The com
mittee had agreed to estimate this at
400,000 dollars, though according to the
present rate of exchange it would amount
to somewhat that is about 40,000 dollart
more. Gentlemen, he said, would un
doubtedly perceive that it was for the
public interest that this object (hould be
provided for as early as possible, that ad
vantage might be taken of the occuring
circumstances so as to conduit the bufineis
moit profitably for the United States—
One quarter of the interest of the public
debt was 700,000 dollars—One quarter
of the civil lift was estimated at 50,000'
dollars. This he took notice would amount
to somewhat more, owing to the encreafe
of the number of the members of the
Legislature—The remaining item men
tioned by him was the army expenditures,
estimated at 375,000 dollars—This article
he observed might vary more from thtf es
timate than any of the preceding. It
might rife considerably above, it might
fall considerably below. The conje&ure
would, however, be found probably not
far from the truth. The aggregate of these
several Items amounted to 2,146,294 dol
lars and 18 cents. To fatisfy this sum it
appeared by returns inthe Secretary's
office, that there would fall due of duties
on imports, and tonnage, in the months
of April, May and June, and of course in
season to face the demands which may be ■
made on the ift of July, 448,802 dollars
and 22 cents. There will also be received
in the fame period, one quarter of the an
nual duties on distilled spirits, amounting
by estimate to 100,000 dollars, which ad
ded to the returned amount of the duties
as before stated of 448,802 dollars and 22
cents, makes an aggregate of 548,802
dollars and 22 cents. This sum deducted
from the aggregate of the estimated de
mands which may become necefiary to be
difcharged.beingasbeforeftated 2,146,294
dollars and 18 cents, would leave a balancce
to be provided for by loan of 1,597,491
dollars and 96 cents.
He observed, however,that there went'
two considerations which would cenfidet
ably lefTen this balanrue. These were, lit,
that there was, a deficiency of returns of
bonded duties'; and 2,d, ,the revenue of
the present year imports and
tonnage, which would be .in fact received
previous to the ift day of July—These
two articles the Secretary liad ellim'ated
ar 600,000 dollars, this lie had founded
oti his experience on this fubjett. The
committee had thought their report might
result in round numbers, departed minutely
indeed, from the Secretary's estimate by
reducing the 600,000, to 597,491. dol
lars and 96 cents, leaving according to
their report, a balance of 1,000,000 dol
lars to be provided for by*loan.
Mr. S. said it was true that all the de
mands on the Treasury might not be mads
at the precise moment they became due
It was indeed probable, that the money
due to foreigu officers in particular, might
not; but he repeated what he had before
said, that it was the duty of the Legisla
ture to put the public credit beyond the
reach of injury j and that by the report
of the feledt committee, the anthority to
borrow was only to exist in the cafe of
necessity
Mr. Sedgwick concluded by reading
from a payer he held in his hand, an ac
count according to the detail he had be
fore made and ilated.
Mr. Giles said the chairman of the fi
led* committee had made a fair, and com
prehensive ftatemer.t of the conduct of the
committee as far as he had gone; there
were however some fa£h, which he had
omitted, that lie thought should be com
municated. He {aid that in the course of
the committee's jnveftigatiou, it had ap
peared that the contrast contemplated by
the ast for incorporating the bank, had
been dated tither in June or July. It had
however been agreed, that it Ihould havea rctrofpe&ive effect so as to iutereft the
United States in the bant from the com
mencement of its operations. He thought
it also his duty to Itate to the committee,
though not in opposition to the report,
that it had been made a question whether
the payment of the instalments due to the
bank from the United States, {hould be
considered as falling due at the time of
the commencement of its operations, or
at the time of executing the contract.
That this queltion had been referred to
the Attorney General, who had given an
opinion in favor of the latter period. That
the Secretary notwithstanding had iiv op
position to this opinion, made the firft
payment in December, very near the time
when the bank commenced its operations,
instead of June or July, when the contract
was executed. Mr. Giles £ai<f he merely
stated these facts, believing the committee
{hould be acquainted with them.
Mr. S. said the facts mentioned by
the gentleman from Virginia, (Mr. Giles)
had appeared during the irtveiKgation of
the committee, and were truly stated.
That he himfelf (hould have mentioned
them, had he supposed they could have
any influence in determining the question
under confideratkjn. That when this
question was decided, he wonld bring for
ward a motion by which the huufe (hould
be officially possessed of a knowledge of
those facts. At present he would only
observe to the committee, that it was true
the contra£t between the secretary and the
bank, in purfuanee of the legal provision,
was executed in June or July, that it was
by the contract agreed, that it (hould have
a retrospective operation to the time of
the commencement of the negotiations of
the bank. It ought, however, to be no
ticed that by this mean the United States
were obliged to pay an interest of fir per
cent on the amount of their fubfeription
for the time preceding the date of the
contra ft, but they were for the fame time
intereftcd in the profits of the bank, which
amounting to co'nfidcrably more than fix
per cent, the difference was a clear balance
in favor of the public. It was also to be
observed, that by paving the instalments
in December, instead of June or July, a
debt d ie from the government, bearing
an interest of fix per cent, was exchanged
for one bearing an interest of five per cent,
so that in both the instances mentioned by
the gentleman, there was a clear and ma
nifest fax ing to the United States.
The report of the feleft committee was
agreed to and adopted by the house, and
Mr. Sedgwick, Mr. Giles, and Mr. Dear
born, were directed to report a bill con
formably thereto.
Mr. Sedgwick then moved that the Se
cretary of the Treafuiy be directed to fur
nifh the honfe with a copy of the contrail
made in pursuance of the 11 th feftion of
the ast for incorporating the subscribers
to the Bank of the United States.—Af
fo, a copy of any opinion which may have
been given by the Attorney-General, re
lative to a conftruftion of the contrast,
and that he iufornr the House, of any pro
visional measures, which may have been
taken to discharge the second instalment,
due on the laid loan. This motion was
agreed to.
He next moved, that a committea be
appointed to prepare and report a bill pro
viding for the feeond instalment, due on a
loan made of the Bank of the United
This motion was aifo argreed to,
and a committee confuting of Mr. Sedg
wick, Mr. W. Smith, and Mr. Cadwalla
der, accordingly appointed.
UNITED STATES,
BOSTON, February 13,
Extraß of a letter from a Member of Con*
greft, to bis friend in this town, Febru
ary 3.
" I presume you will not expect me to
close this letter, without some observati
ons on the political manoeuvres in this
quarter. My sentiments.-tin genera! prin
ciples, you know. The trite tune of anti
federal i» going fed out of falhion, it now
affords but little music even to the ears of
its authors ; though they ought to rever
ence its departed (hade, for I believe it
has operated as a magic to blind the pub
lic mind, whilAneafures were maturing,
that may eventually change the original
chara&eriftic features of our government.
—The bank and funding fyflrems will pro
bably give a call to its completion, that
the authors of the conllitutiori never con
templated. The monied mtereft unless
some changes take place, will form an ari
ftocratic influence, that will be inevitable.
This is the great line between the legislat
ive parties, whicn now stand nearly on a
poile.— Two important questions will
speedily put their strength to the test. I
mean the propositions of Madison, and the
report of the Algerine committee, which
I prefumr you have seen. The debates
on the fii ft have wholly occupied the house
for the last three weeks; and perhaps Bri
tilh interests were never more ardently ad
vocated in St. Stephen's Chapel, than
they have been in the course of the de
bates, within the walls of Congress. Ma
dison has commanded the applause even of
his enemies. The fuperficial froth of fo
norious words and harmonious periods,
vanish before the irrefiftable strength of
his reasoning."
NASSAU, (N. P.) January 10.
On Wednesday his majesty's frigate
Hufiar, commanded by Captain George,
called off her, and yesterday failed for the
coast of America.
The Hussar sent in two American
schooners, viz. the Success, Curry, and
Frederickrtnirg Packet, Anderforr, from
Philadelphia for Cape Francois, laden with
provisions. Both these vessels, we under
stand, are at liberty either to dispose of
their cargoes here, or to proceed to fbme
other Briti(h or neutral port.
SAVANNAH, February 1
On the 22d ult. the sloop Ranger of
Hudson, from Turk's Island, bound for
this port, endeavouring to get into Charles
ton, in bad weather, was loft on the bar,
and the crew supposed to be all drowned^
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 4.
This day in the House of P.eprefenta
tives, Mr. Sedgwick called up the pro
posed amendment to the Conftitutioß of
the United States, refpefting the Suabi
lity of States, which passed the Senate
some time since.—Aster some discussion
of the fubjefl, the House concurred with
the Senate, 81 Ayes, 9 Noes.
By a Baltimore paper it appears that
Port-au-Prince was summoned to fume ri
der to a Britilh squadron the second of
January—the answer received was ligrved
by M.San t hon ax—the purport of which
was, that Republicans never capitulate-
There is a report in circulation that the
English attacked the place, and were un
fuccefcful, being rcpulfed with loss.
Lilbon, Dec. 17, 1703.
Mr. William Bell,
Sit,
• WE have just received the inclosed let
ter by a Portuguese frigate: It is we
presume from Capt. M'Shane, who had
the misfortune of being captured near the
mouth of the Streights, by an Algerine
cruiser, and carried a slave to Algiers.—
We feel very much for him (having had
the pleasure of knowing him here in the
(hip Mary Ann, owned by MefTrs. Stew
art and Barr, of Philadelphia) and all
the Americans who have fallen victims to
the datefted rovers, and it will give us
pleasure to alleviate their unfortunate situ-
ation,
We are sorry to inform you that on the
sth of Nov. the date of Capt. M'Shane's
letter, there were 120 to 130 poor Ame
ricans in slavery ; and this is not the worst,
the piratical beings came out again into
the Atlantic the 29th ult. in feareh of
more plunder, and we fear they will do
further mifchief. Their cmiling now it
contrary to their old fyltem of retiring
from the ocean in November, and coming
out in April ; bnt they never did much
harm to the PortUgnefe, for lince our re
sidence in this city, half a century, they
captured but 3 brigs, one (hip, and 3 or
4 fchooners,and carried them into Algiers.
We hope the United States wiUfoon efta
blilh a force to keep those pirates from e
ver entering the Atlantic again.
We suppose that you have been inform
ed thai this Court and Spain grant con
voys to your flag, as well as those of the
Hanfe Towns. Our letters from Gibral
tar dated the zsth.uk. advise that a Portu
guese frigate had taken under her pro
tection 6 Americans, to fee them to the
wfftward, out of danger.
This opportunity of Capt. Stafford, to
Baltimore, not allowing us more time to
enlarge,
We remain, &c.
JOHN BULKELEY & SON.
Er.trach f.~m Capt. John M'S'„..ne's let
ters, dared at Algiers, 2d, 3d, sth,
and 13th Nov. 1793, 10 k* O wllcr
this citv
Dear Sir,
I have to inform you that on the jctfr
of August, we were boarded by the Gu!-
loden, an Engli(h 74, who pressed the
chief mate (Andrew TuUock) and three
of our men ( Edward Kerr and William
Brown, the other's name 1 have forgot)
being Englilhmen, and sent in ont man
and two boys instead of them. The man's
name is Mott, and has a family in Nor
folk, Virginia ; the boys' names are Bur
gis ?nd Smith, apprentices to Captain
Conyngham of fame place, who wi(h their
friends to know where they are.—We had
light winds and calms with 2 5 days of east
erly winds on the ooafl, which was the
cause of our long passage. After having
run the gauntlet with two frigates, on the
iSth October, about 5 leagues from Gi
braltar, we were boarded by a zebecque
of 20 guns, belonging to this place, who
after coming within mulket-fhot, kept up
a constant firing with small arms, until
they manned our yards frcm theirs, then
the firing ccafed, and they came down
iword in hand, spared our lives but nothing
else, having {tripped us of the clothes we
had on, and put us on board the zebecque,
which brought us to this place on the 30th
ult. when we wire taken before the Dey,
from thence to the Banyon where the
Haves are kept locked up at night: next
day we were all sent to the marine and
kept at hard labor from day light to dark,
with an iron chain which reaches from our
legs to our hips ; about yclb. weight, and
treated with great severity by aur afters,
who allow us nothing but bread and water
for ot'.r fubfiftance. The wheel-barrow
men in your city lived a genteel life to
what ws do,
Our fitutation is truly (hocking—and
how long we can exist, God only knows.
The caipcnter, John M'FarTane, a Scotch
man, was taken out of the marine, by the
British Consul—the fail-maker, John Fo
gereatix, and two Spaniards, G. Romeo
and B. Gazona, were fold at pnblic auc
tion. On the evening of the lame day
I arrived litre, the following mailers with
their crews were brought in—Captains
Wallace, Virginia - r Newman, Boflon ;
Taylor, Rhode-Island ; Furnace, New-
Hamplhire; Calder.Glouccfter; Burnham,
New-York - T . Bailey, Newbury j Moss,
Ditto; Penrofe, Philadelphia.
The whole number ef Americans is be
tween izo or 130, they treat the Dutch
in the fame manner they do us.—-Captain
O'Brlan and Stephens, with their crews
are here, 10 of them are living, the reft
dead.—lf their fmalf number could not
be redeemed we have no hopes of relief,
therefore endeavour to make ourselves as
happy as poflible : they a(k for my ransom
4000 dollars, firft and second mate, 3000
dollars each, and for each man, 1500 dol
lars. If a peace is not made, or our fhlpj
protefled, we may expect to encreafe dai
ly, as we are all employed in the marine
department, fitting out cruizerSi I have
not yet learned their force, but as there
is no cheek on them, no American veflel
will be able to go to Europe in fafety. A
courier is arrived from Alicant, informing
the Dey that Col. Humphrey's is there
with full power from Congress, to make
a peace, and waits his permifiion to come,
but the Dey I am informed, had refufed
him.
I remain
Your humSfe servant.
■N. B. Names of the crew on board the
Ship Miser va.
John M'Sliane, Master; Andrew Tnllock,
Ift Mate ; Samuel Millburne, 2d ditto ; John
M'Farfane, Carpenter ; John Fogereau*,
Sail-maker; Abel Willi*, Cork.
Seamen —Jofepfi Rogers, William Brown,
Thomas Burdon, William Walker, William
Grafton, Giani Romeo, Barrotami Gazona r
John Sutton, Edward Kerr, Joseph Dekz.
Married, last Thursday morning, at the
Governor's feat, at the Falis of Schuylkill,,
by Bishop White, Joseph HOPFiNSON,Efq.
to Miss Emelia Mifflin, daughter of the
Governor.
In this City, on Wednesday even
ing last, by the Rev. Dr. Afhbel Green, Mr.
William M'Calla, of Hickory-Town,
Merchant, to Miss Jake Mathers, as
Mud-Creek.
IV A NT ED,
A Man Servant,
Who is acquainted with the common duties
about a house. None need apply but such
as can be well reoom mended.
Enquire of the Printer.
March 4.
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROW EVENING, March 5,
Will be performed.
A TRAGE DT,
(rtever performed licre) called
The Carmelite,
St. Valori, Mr. Fenr.e!!.
Lord Hildtrbrand, Mr. Whitlcck.
Lord De Courci Mr. Oreen.
Montgomeri, Mr. Cleveland.
GyfFord, Mr. Harwood*
Fitz Allan, Mr. Francis,
Raymond, Mr. Warrell.
Matilda, Mrs. Whitlock.
End of the Kay, a new Scots Dance,
called, the
CALEDONIAN FROLIC y
By Mr. Francis, Miss WQI ..ms, autj
Mrs. De Marque.
To which will be added,
A FARCE, in two Aifts,
called
The Spoiled Child.
Litt'e Pickle, Mr. MarfhaH.
Old Pickle, Mr. Finch.
Tag.
John,
Thoma3,
-Miss Pickle,
■ r.
Mr. Blitfet.
Mr. Darley,
Mrs. Shaw.
Maria, Mrs. Cleveland.
Margerys Mrs. Bates.
S;,fan, Miss Wiu'ems.
Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarter*
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.
*m * A* ir.convenier.cies to the public have
ariftn frcm the Box-book being opened, on the
days of performance enly, in future attend
ance will be given at the office in the Theatre
ever)' day from ten tiH one, and on the days
of performance from ten till three o'clock in
the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, it is
refpe&fully requelied, may be addreiTed to
Mr. l ranklln, at the Box-Office.
The Doors will be opened at 5 o*clock*
and the performances Begin at 6 o'clock prA
ciftly.
Ladies and Gsntfemen are reqaefted to
fend their servants to keep places, at half an
hour past 4 o'clock, and to order them to
withdraw, as soon as the company arc- featcd,
as they cannot on account be permitted
to remain in the boxes, nor'any placcs L.}pl
after tke firft a<ft.
No placcs can be let in the fide boxes fci a
# less number than eight, nor any places je
tained after the firfi a#.
N. B- No money or txkets to 6c retmWd*
nor any perfbn admitted on airy account
v. fratever behind the scenes.
The recutft, to prevent coiifn
fion, fcrrants n iy be ordered to IS down snd
take up with the herfes' heads towards the
Schuylkill, and drive off by Seventh-ftreti.
Vivat Refpubluu,
Exhibition of Artificial
Chinese Fire-Works r
Without powder, smell, or fmeke.
MR. STUVER returns his sincere thanks
to the public for the great encourage
ment he has met- with, and has the honor to
inform them, that his exhibition will be con
tinued every evening (Sundays excepted} at
7 o'clock, in Chtrry-Alley, the firft dcor weft
of Fourth-street. Tickets for grown pei-foiis
rid. and for children 6d.
Selctfl parties ccnf:fting of ten cr more per
fon® will he admitted from 8 o'clock until 10,
notice being given the afternoon previous to
the exhibition. Tickets one quarter dr-illr.
Marc h 4.
Just Imported,
111 the Ship Edward* Capt. CranJm, from
St. Peter (burg in Rufiia,
And now landing at. South-frcrt Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
SAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's RUCK',
RUSSIA DUCK,
MOG'a BRISTLES.
AND POX 5.W.F BY
Jcbn Donnaldjon,
tf
March 4,1794.
Writing
O.V SICX-BO^F.DS,
PLATES, &c.
Done in the most elegant manner, and after
the firft mailers ; like wile,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finifhed at ttir Ihorteft notice, fcy
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norm's Court, back of tie New Library*/
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth £id fifth ftretu.
March 4. - ® dtf
■j AFAKK'Ef7o he So!;! at Public Vendue,
3u Friday llie nthday of April next,
'John 'Tbomjori, in Perth-
v.in> I'ic ot
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
f -1 r Jui> -in • i.s tn v iijLii>. on whu"h is
i < n.-'O o. 3i ■ "Kippl.- ' ■ s. a wr.l .)t
t .. , . lij£!■ II t r JiMl ' «•*
t , CSC .u- lijvl ■ nri , Mr'i.hrai!':', .nid a Jirll
„ ~, t 1 .1 II : It.ins 1 11 ihc Will*
't ioi i l, e
q i \
" i. mi... s hi N i !.-v. she
. |X>,| ■' S ,t>c! c ;vr f ill 01 1 /"t 'li 111,- R«r! OH
. ; v.>, \\ ~{ 11>' V. .'M't >!mlv-lln»k to
t , v ,U. .. 11«' liu" t ti.' .iMM-.n-unn ecifny.
( ( i .i M.iis ol ' <♦! i "A 'II 1 ,lie
p , | |-~jV <o be pmo on ihf hi ft dav of
, < |.. x • v. h. nii ami U' 1 !• ■>' H' >•
|~ i i,» :h .• JMIT -1«f. r, !v Wamm I\ U •
v. ,* ,». l.so. Pr.-fl-ipni "f ' H»* Bo.vr! -)<
,ii .v in:' b..'fti-i n D l '°f New-
: , .:r ! ( innum' 'vioj Ii > i ris i«. io>; "tiO'
ill, ).cdi ■ 1.. •!> " •Wi"*'
1, m i!' ' «»! IH ' li'Mi 'I
1 AMES PARKED
Perth-Ambo\, February 5,1 794
(AMI'S LhLACH,
P ;Vi j :.CT.;:i.IA' intonns lm and
. ..c p,.Mi •, T '.'t !' 'IT-) hr u»«
~ ( ,v n (..tiUic-
diced cncc more, 10
„,>x! VA- »,U ..!i I li's lc.v»ri*s 1 o
v't ci»( •' ii!' 'i. w|i'< r«n vhcc roi.fidtnrc
m him ; .Hi', !>.• .■iT..r,'s i.wiio .'nipl.iv him,
tlw rh ■rr fi.Uii. ■' ill.'ii n.u m- —
«'Al'fcU LINE—
1.1 t!-'.! he Mutant • -neivot . r<> p.i} ti:c
<\ »"»• <u >nn ; he" Nltlnt ei < 1!. Nt
•<k t /.■ <:") v '.vnrcvi :. He ha j .i!;cu ; hi. Cho ivilu >
.iv, . Mr. r.u,.J i ,>J. Wm h
-Wikiv K-HLIl' S'.C I'Rl
ill >ij in■ a 'id l.ilii ; ■ •no
Ma|<r 's Shop.
TlhS. all kind
wnf.r Coinui'iliiu tfuh:«vts if ai! kM», J .s. be
irH ,M f-cl on UiHts. J!OUS'r'S -inci
Yl\S V .KI S will t>r tc-r t.-le, on
L<ll!'.
* " f Cdfh pni.-i tor haU-m. Pi>vidence, and
P-r T; 11. iU>'' BU.' S.
N B. If any Gentleman itt o r
Xtn-.Yoi k.'has any Uufu efi '0 traijacl at lio/len*
it, P ■/'*>• Welocutions, he ivill be hupp) to be cm
pfai-rJ nv eonrw'/fion.
Bi.fton, Jan. 24, 1794.
Department.
War
J 'unitary 30 th I 794.
INFORM ATJON hi 1 ci.-y n'mrf to all the
r.,iltai \ invalids of the United Stfrte.s,that the
in j to which they are entitled tor lix month's
1 ; ..nnual pennon, from the fourth day of
> mbcr 1793, and which **ill bccomc due
5 h d«>f A! rch 1794, will be paid oh
; A day by tht* CoiTVmiffiuners of the Loans
1 ilte ftaies refpe£tiveiy y under the ufualre-
, u*.
\ i t!ions of executors and adminiftratois
( ; accompany d with legal evidence or.
ih> \: ioffic es, and alio of the time the
ji.»,\iidied, whofr pension they m.iy claim.
By cununauo mI ihe Pr.-fid. Nt
of the United States,
H. KNOX,
Secretary oj JVar.
r jJ. Trie printers in the lefpefitivc Hates are
ien e ilod to pnblidi tiie ab »ve rn their ncwfpa
p 1 rise fpaceot two months.
"j. '.Mly 30,
y(7ST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SA L E BY
ivl.Carev,No. 118 ,High-Jireet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the lejlfenfc in the world.
f T I H IS little book ts written in a stile altogether
i novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all clafles of people, merchants, me
chanics ?nd farmer*. Such a reputation has this
icrjuired, thai it his passed th'o three im
prellions in the eaftcrn dates, and many houie
noldeis deem it so ufelul as to purchase a copy
lor every adult in theii families. Pr i c f 2s.
F-'bruar v 4. dti
Notice is hereby given,
r pHAT the fubfenber has been duly ap
.L pointed Administratrix on the estate of
his Excellency John Hancock, ECq. late o4'
B >fton, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herfelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law directs—and all persons in
terested, are defirtd to take notice accord
ing y.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Button, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
A LL persons who have any demands against
1 V Ihe Estate of his late Excellency JOHN
H ANCOI'.K, Esq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subscriber, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who (land indebted to said Estate, are
r nuelfed to fettle with him immediately; as the
A A of Limitation of A&ions, which is to take
place on the fit ft day of December next, will
ot iei wife render it neceflary for him to com
mence fuilsagamft them.
• JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
B 'fton, Nov. 13, 1793.
N R The Printers throughout this Com
ni >n wealth, aie rcqurfted to insert this in their
refueftive newfpapen, and forward their ac
counts for the fame, tu jL J. M
NORRIS-COURT,
Back of the New L bra y, bitwccH Chefnut
George Mutter,
Respectfully iMbmis.Ms friends and
thp public in general, that he continues
carrying on th • bnluirfs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Like wife, JAPANNED PL Pl. A ES,
tor floors or window- Ihutters,dene in the mod
eiegant marine*, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
r- • I'- b
December 30,
From IiOMDON, Dublin and Glasgow,
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Annual Regilter for 1792
IN European Magazine for the fivft lix
months of 1793
Gibbon*; decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchelter iociety, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and Ipivit
, R.j/'ftc
2 <1 w t m
on chrifh'anj-ty
.Disney'- lite of Dr. Jortin
Ki-gviile's ancient geography
D'Auoirs of Guy Joli
Mcmtv,a collection of ell'ays
Varieof Pruflia's works
Calm obfervei—by Mackintosh
R ulTeli's ancient and modei 11 Europe
L ingliorne's Plutarch
Elegantext rafts, superbly gilt
Elegant ext rafts of natural hrtlory
Sangnier and Wrjflon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
TaflVs Jerufulem delivered
Sine i lie's tranflatioe of ButFon
Berwick's hiftoty of quadrupeds
RufFon abridged
History of birds
Philip?** liiltory of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
liiifcory o'f France, in 3 vols.
Cnriofities of literature, 3 vols.
Whituker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary. 2 vol?.
Dow'"-, h'rftnry of Hind oft an
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
I inlay's description of TKje'htucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Pre ft nt state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lav ate r on a"pri c '« eo
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Jnhnfon
Netker on executive power
Kilfes of Serundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaiot's travels with iup«rb engravings
Downmatr's infancy
Adair's history of American Indies
Benington on roaterialifm and immarerialifm
Berchold'ss advice tp patriot it travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chaudon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
G<"ozier's description of China
Murphy's tranflatton of Tacitus
Godwin on pol ticaljviftice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius 011 man
Kaimes's sketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhnufe di&ionary
Reveries of folitnde
Smith's theory of moral fentimenlfs
Stackhoufe's history of the b'.ble
Watson's life of Philip lid. &r Illtl.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's \Voirders of the little world, called
d2m
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travelsintoDenmark,Rnffia,Poland,Src.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlinrs of the practice of mid-
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Amiftrong 011 diseases of children
Quincy's d fpenfiatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's aifpenfatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digeftinn
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's diiTertations
London practice of physic
Bell's fnrgery
chemistry.
and Walnut-Streets.
J lift Imported,
A 'd nov»- <>p?n'c tor
u . ny
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Marled Jlrcet,
A a>'(! Vaiuat'.e
Among which are tilt following
FOR SALE,
By MATHFW CAREY, No. iiß,
Market-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery:
Defiened to exhibit in a new point of view,
its eftc&s on morals, induflry, and the peace of
ociety. .'Some fafti and calculations art ottered
to prove the labor of freemen to be much more
produflivc than that ot Jlaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the neceflaiy conclusion, that
slavery is impolitic as well as unjuji.
Price 25 Cents.
dtf
Fcbuiary 15.
Stock Brokers
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfrlf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
S'IOCKS on COMMISSION, bfgs leave to of
fvi his fervicesto his friends and others, in the
line ol a Siotk Broker. Thoft who may please
to fa vor him with their business, may depend
upon having it trania&cd with theuimoft fide
lity arid dispatch.
bidets l)Om Philadelphia, 801100, or any
other part ot the United State?, will he. Ilriflly
attendtd to. LEONARD BI.EECKER.
Ijhi1 j hi LAutLi HiA, F- biuary 13, 1794
PROPOSALS
F6r printing by Subscription,
A Work, to bc-entitlpd,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Pennsylvania State Trials.
THE want of fuffiri"nt information of the
state trials ot Gjeat-Britain in the enrly
periods of that government is now lamented :
Hi heito there hath been but one trial in the
state of Pcnnfy.lvqnia on impeachment :—ai.d
herealfb it is (o be regretted, that, being neg
lected at the lime, the public are now left with-
out fuflicient information on the fubje£l of that
trial, it is however in this woik designed to ief
cue-wha,i can be collefled thereof from fuuices
of indjfputaple authority, so that the fame shall
be preserved from oblivion.
Another impeachment and the feconti is now
depending. An officer is charged by the late
Honfe o| Representatives, who hath for many
years been largely confided in by this ftate,and
haih long b en at the head of the financial de
partmcn of the fame, and it imports the citi
7, nsmknnw hisconduff, and the circumstances
which may be brought foi ward on his trial.
In this work the Editor will he can ful to
state the fadts, as they may be brought forward,
and to lav all evidence and papers before
•he public.—With this view—
The folloiv'mg Terms are refpeflfully
submitted to the Public :
I. The Work shall be printed in o&avo, with a
good type, on fine paper, and delivered to
at the refpefkive places where the
fubferiptions are taken in, as soon as the work
(hall be complcated.
11. As no eonjtflure can well be made, as to
the length of the present trial, the size of the
volume cannpt be ascertained at this time—
But the price shall not exceed that of some of
the latefl publications in this city.
111. Ii will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental cirGumftances that may occur during
the trial of John Nicholfon, Eftjuire, Comp
troller-General of (his commonwealth, with
theargumenis of counsel ow both fides,together
with tht articles of impeachment, and the
picas and replications at large, the several re
solutions of the two branches of the state Le
gislature, refpe&ing this impeachment, an d
the final decision ©f the SENATE refpefling
that officer.
To which will be prefixed, as much as can be
colletted from authentic documents, of the im
peachment, trial, and aequital of the late Ftancis
Hopkinfon. Esquire, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty for the state of P-nnfylvania, during
the late war, never before pnblifhed.
No money will be required before the deli
very of the book.
Subscriptions will be received by Francis
B*i!ey, No. 116, Higl) ftr ei; Wrigley and Ber
riman, No. 149, Chelnut-ftreet, and by the dif
ferent booksellers in this city; Jacob Bailey,
Lane after ; Yundt and Patton, Baltimore, and
by the Editor,
EDMUND HOG AN.
N. B. The price will be enhanced to non
fHbfcribers. Feb. 18. taw :f
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON the 31ft of last month, the fubferibrr ad
drefitd a letter to Mcffrs. Thomas Pear/all
££ Son, merchants in New-York, and inclosed
therein a bank note, No. 445, for twenty dol
lars ; one ditto, No. 151, lor thirty dollars;
and one ditto, No. 3,866, for twenty dollars.
—He also addressed a letter tp Mr. Gilbert
Saltonjlall, merchant in New-York, inclosing a
bank bill, No. 148, for fifty dollars, indoifed
on the back thereof in thef- words—" Pay the
within to Mr. Gilbert Saltonjlall—Ebtn. Hunting-
Be also addressed a letter toMeffis. White
& Wardelly merchants in New- » oik, and inclo
sed a banjc bill for ten dollars, and a draft in fa
vor of said White & Wardell, which letters were
put in the Poft-Office on said 31ft January, to
be forwarded to New-York : But by letters re
ceived from the Gentlemen to whom they u rc
severally addressed, the money was robbed
from each letter before delivery.
The Public are requeued to endeavor a dej
teftion of the Villains wto commiccd the above
robbery. The bill indorsed, I think was a York
bank bill, and foine others, one or more was
of thtfUniied States bank, remitted at Philadel
phia. Any peifon difcovcnng the Thief, and
* returning the Money, (hall be entitled to fifty
dollars reward.
EBEN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, Feb. 1794.
A RECOMPENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby offered by the President and Direc
tors of the Bauk of tbt United Stages, to any
person who (hall, on or before the firft day of
May next, produce to them such a plan and ele
vation of a Banking House, as ftiall be approved
of by them.—A plain, yet handJonie front is
d (Tired : The whole building is to be fuhtiantiil
and commodious with as much (pace around it,
as the size of the ground will admit.
The Lot on which the building is to be erect
ed, is situated on tbe weft fide ot Third-flrce',
between Chefnut and \V*luut-ftrects in Phila
delphia ; and its dimensions are no feet on
fhird-ftreet, and about,too feet westward.
THOMAS WILLING, Prefidrnt.
Office,
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, dedvSing 15 per Cent, from
the Prizes—this Lottery conftjls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
14,539 Prit.cs and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Directors as th* SoG.ety for eftablifhwg
Ufrful Manufa&yrcs, having rcfolved to
erect LOTTERIES for railing On e Hundred
Thousand Dollar s, agreeably to an Ast of
the Lrgiflature of ttie St/te of New-]erfey, have
appointed the following persons to fuperiotend
and dire£ the drawing of the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rnfus King, Herman Lc Roy, James
Watson, Richard Harrifon, Abijah Hammond,
and Cornelius R?y, of the city ol New-Yoik—
Thomas Willing, J»ofeph Ball, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew Bayard, ol the city of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
Flias Boudinot, General El<as Dayton, Jarftcs
Parker, John Bayard, Doftnr Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton, joshua M. W: d lUce» Jqfeph
Bloomfield, and Elifha Boudinot, of Niw-Jer
fev, who offer the following Schcme of a Lot
tery, and pledge theinfelves to the public, that
they will take ewery aiTurance and precaution in
their power to have thfe Monies paid by the
Managers, from time to time, as received, into
the Banks at New-Yoik and Philadelphia, to
lemain for the purpofeof paying Priz-s, which
fnall be immediately discharged by a check
upon one of the Ranks.
SCHEME
1 Pri
1
2
5
iO
20
ICO
300
ICOO
1 Prize of 2p,000 Dollars is 20,000
2000
3000
8100
14,539 Prizfs. 262,000
23,461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Laftdrawn number, 2,000
38.000 Tickets at 7 Dollats each is 260.000
The drawing will cpmmence, under the in
fpe&ionof a Committee of the Superintendents,
as soon as the Tickets arc fold,ol which timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendents have appointed John
Gumming, of Newarkj Jacob R. Hardenberg,
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Trenton». as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample fecuriry tor discharging the
trust repofid in them.
(£3* In order to fecurethe pun&u.-fl payment
of the Prizes, the Superintendents of the Lottery
have dire&ed that the Managers shall each enter
into bonds in 40,900 dollars, with four fuffieient
securities, to perform their inl\|u£lions, the fub
fiance of which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
(hall receivcthc sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he {hall immdiatcly place tfe&fawe in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit of the Governor of the Society, and such
ot the Superintendents as live in the city where
the monies are placed, lo remain there until the
Lottery is drawn, for the payment of tbc Prizes.
11. The Managers to take fufneient (ecurity
for any Tickets they may trust, o'.herwife to be
responsible for them.
If I. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ftra&s of which (hall be Tent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Patcrfon, January 1, 1794.
On applicacion to either of the above gentle
men, information will be given where tickets
be had.
February a.j,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with9acrj|B
land, or 42 4CQS ot land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in tize or convenience.
For apply to the printer,
January 23.
THE Fount of L,ONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed# The Fowt
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printid by JOHN FENNO, No. 3.
South Fuurtk-Street.
|e >o 3W.
10, poo
,5.000
2,000
a,coo
5 00
100
5°
?.o
>5
i a
xo
15,000
v 20.000
tawtf.
TO BE SOLD,
m&th—rtlf 4
TO BE SOLD,
Enquire of the Emtqk.
10, coo
10.000
10.000
10.000
I**,OOQ
iO,coo
30,000
36,000
81,000