'J?
-V
E V
[No. 115 of Vol. V.]
Louis Ofmont,
jjas removed from No. 40, noithi Third street,
to No. Il7i north Second tlrcel, between
Arch and Kacr streets, in those stores luely
oerupied by Mr. Starman, opposite 10 Meflrs
I W and \V. GVbbs, where he keeps hu
VhblcTale Wrehtufe, tor the sale ef all
forts of GOODS, and the trjnfaftion of all
commiHiou Business, and
Has now for Sale,
White silk {lockings,
High dirfled Englidi fafhion
A box ol Fiench pomatum
Hanging frper of"the belt patterns and co
loors
A few pieces of Long Lawns
An invoice of Sattin Cloaks, which on .ac
count ol.thefeafon will be fold low and at a
long credit
Champaign Wine 6 years old
A few pipes Lisbon Wine
Do. do. POll Wine
£) 0 , do. Madeira
Som c Calcavlla "Wine
Bur ( > und y Wine and Claret.
April -7. dt< I
The following Certifi
cate of the funded three p,.r Cent Sock of the
Dnmcftic Debt of the United Sutes ftandrtig "n
the books ol the Tieafurv of lhr la,<l United
Slates, in the names of Doonald and Burton o
London, merchants, and ligned by Joleph
Nouife, Regfftcr of laid Triafury, to wit:
N". 5476,. dated 24 h' Augutl 1792 for 2q.i>9
dollar? and's3 traiiftimted Irom Lou
dun in the thip Peter, Paul Hufley, mailer,
bound for New York, and has been Infl —
The Subfc'riber intending io l apply to the 1 rca.
fury of the United States to have the fame re
newed, defues all persons who are intereftrd in
' the said ceitificaic, to make their objeaions
thereto, if any they have. •
Francis Macy.
Phiiad. March 27. d6w
PIRACY!
$3- THE schooner DELIGHT, the pro
perty ®f Manu 1 Antonio Martin, of the If
y laiid of Bona Vista, was on the 18th of Oc
' tober faljs wt»i|e at anchor in the road of
that Ifliind, forcibly entered and carried off
by JOHN DUNHAM, JOHN MURRAY, a
man by the name of DODGE, aiuj one other
parson, name unknown. —This veflel was fold
to M. A. Martin, by William M'Neill, who
came t<> Bona Vista in her, from Madeira.—
She was built in the county Matthews,
flaie of Virginia, and was registered at New-
York, the 16th April, 1793— He» name wa<
piinted on her (lern—Her dimensions as fol
lows : 56 feet 6 inches keel, 16 feet 6 inches
beam, hold 6 feet 2 inches, her burthen 54
tons.
At the time of their entering the vefTel,
there was a black man on boarefby the name
of Balthazer, whom they carried oft with tlkm.
John Dunham was mate of the vetfel under
Capt. M'Neill, prior to the sale of her* and
the other persons were mariyers. Dunham
is a married man, and has a family at Nan
tucket. •
The cargo of the veflel consisted of the fol
lowing articles.—2 caf. s containing 74 pieces
Linen j cafe Wine-Glatles; 1 bale containing
g pieces Broadcloth; 1 do. 9 do. 79 pieces
Cotton, (needle worked)— 33 do. do inferior,
2 moys of Salt; (he had seven small arms and
some pistols.
If any person can give any information of
this Velfel, or any part of the property, so that
it can be recovered, or the offenders brought
04 justice, they are rrq Hefted to inform Meflrs.
Joseph Anthony and Son, Philadelphia;
Mur ray and Mumford, New-York; Clark
and Nightingale, Providence; or Head
and Amory, Boflon.
March 17. diw.
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
superior quality in pipes, imported in the ihip
Wil fling ton.
'OLD SHERRY WINE of the fir ft quality
in quarter casks, imported in the brig Nancy
capt. Gwjn. ft< m Cadiz
SHELLED ALMONDS aod a few kegs of
RAISINS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIFFE WINES,in pipes
hhds. and quarter casks, imported in the/hip
Thomas, capt. Skinner.
A few quarter cask . of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who has also, just arrived and for sale
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lijb on Salt.
A quantity of empty BAGS for sale.
April 5. w&sim.
©ißrtti of tHje 'Ctniteii
ENI'NG
For Amsterdam,
3—. The new fall-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
W ADRIAN A,
* K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight orpaflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. c 3" JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Patfengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794 dtf
For Sale or Charter,
A ND RO M ,
IS a ft out good vessel, about two years old,
burthen 232 tons, has only made three voy
ages, and may be lent to Tea at a small ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-fti'eet wharf,
and the terms made known bv application to
WHARTON & lEfflS.
March 2i.
For "Norfolk & Fredericksburgh,
■ SALLY,
A staunch good veflel, will fail in a few
days. For freight or p flage, apply to the
mailer on board at Chefnut street wharf, or
t0 JOSEPH JNTHO NT & SOtf.
March 31. dtf
T A PEW BARRELS OF
POTATOES,
Well picked, out of a very large quantity —
AND A FEW
Tierces of Rice,
FOR SALE BY
Louis Ofmont,
No. 117, north Second street.
April 17. dtf
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Oxtrabwgs,
Holland Sheeting,
'Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, -viz. Tumblers and Mugs, "va
rious sizes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, fquar'e andflat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c. &c.
FOR SALF. BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
fhouldapplication be made within a few days ;
other wife Jhe will take freight for Amster
dam.
March 1, 1794. d—tf
The Profits arifmg from the following publi
cation are for the benefit of the Poor.
Just publilhed, printed by R. Aitken and
Son, and fold by J. Crukfhank, W. Young
T. Dobfon, and the other Booksellers,
MINUTES
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed on the 14th September 1793, by
the Citizens of Philadelphia, the Northern
Liberties, and the Diftrift of Southwark,
to attend to and alleviate the *fnffe rings of
the affii&ed with the Malignant Fever,pre
valent, in' the City and its vicinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
A lift of persons admitted into the Hospi
tal at Bulh-hil!, (hewing the times of their
admiflion, death dnd difchargc.
Number of Houses, Deatlis, See. in the
refpe&ive streets, alleys, and courts in the
city of Philadelphia, Northern Liberties, and
Diftrift of Southwark.
A lift of the Interments in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia, Northern
Liberties, and Drftrift of Souihwark, with a
meteorological account of the weather.
A summary of donations in caih and provi
fions, received from sundry persons and pla
ces, for the ufi of the poor and afflicted.
April 2. djw
AND
ADVERTISER.
Thursday, April 24, 1794-
Congrejs of the United States.
House of Reprefentativos
On Monday last the House agreed to
the following resolution :
WHEREAS, the injuries whieh have
been fuffered and may be fuffered by the
United States, from violations committed
by Great Britain en their neutral rights
and commercial intfrefts, as well as from
her failure to execute the seventh article
of the treaty oi peace, render it expedient
for the interests of the United States, that
the commercial intercourse between the
two countries should not continue to be
carried on in the extent at present allowed:
RESOLVED, That from and after
the firft day of November next, all com
mercial intercourse between the citizens of
the United States, and the fubjefts of the
king of Great Britain, or the citizens or
subjects of any other nation, so far as the
fame respects articles of the growth or ma
nuiafture of Great Britain or Ireland,
fliall be prohibited.
AYES—Armstrong, Bailey, Baldwin,
Beatty,Blunt, Carnes,Chri(iie,ClaibouVne,
Clark, Coles, Dawfon, Dearborn, Dent,
Findley, Fitzfimoni, Giles, Gillefpie, Gil
man, Greenup, Gregg, Griffin, Grove,
Hancock, Harrifon, Hartley, Heath,
Hunter, Irvine, Locke, Lyman, Macon,
Madison, M'Dowell, Mebane, Montgo
mery, Moore, Murray, Nevil, New, Ni
cholas, Orr, Page, Parker, Pickens, Pres
ton, Rutherf<srd, Scott, Sherbourne, Smi
lie, lfrael Smith, S, Smith, Sprigg, Tred
well, Venable, Walker, Williams, Winn,
and Winfton,
NOES—Ames, Boudinot, S. Bourne,
P- Bourne, Cadwallader, Cobb, Coffin,
Coit, Dexter, Forreft, Foster, Gilbert,
Glenn, Goodhue, Gordon, Heifter, Hill
hOufe,Hindman, Kittex-a, Latimer, Learn
ed, Lee, Malbone, Sedgwick, J. Smith,
W. Smith, Swift, Talbot, Thatcher, Tra
cy, Trumbull, Van Allen, Van Gaefbeck,
J. Wadfworth, P. Wadfworth, Ward,
, Watts, and Wingate.
The following committee were appoint
ed to prepare and bring in a bill pursuant
to the above resolution, viz. Messrs. Clark
Madison, Lyman, Carnes, and Grove.
For the Gazette of the United States•
/,; Mr. Fenno,
You are requested to publish the following
in your paper.
A certain gerltleman who has lately
been guiltyof conduct which reflects credit
neither on himfelf nor connexions, is cau
tioned to beware how he presents his un
pardonably indefinite hints to the public
in future ; for independent of the ehaftife
ment which will be the consequence, he
■may expect, if discovered, to fee his name
publilhed in the newspapers, together with
the lift of the innocent who now are fuf
fering under the imputation of mifcon
duft, owing to his cowardly and ungen
' tlemanly stile of writing.
x LEX TALIONIS.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, February J. jnjj
A letter from Havre de Grace stated
1 the capture of the Seton, 700 tons, of
Liverpool, bound to Gftend.
All Germany, assuming a warlike ap
pearance, is now actually in arms, to re
pel the invasion of the French.
From our correspondent on the Rhine
we learn that the Auftrians evacuated
Fort Vaub&n, ci-devan Fort Louis, on
the 17th, at ten in the evening, after
burning the town, bridge, &c.
They also blew up all the works, and
I retieated with the loss of only one man,
1 who happened to be sick and could not
1 be be carried away. All this was atchiev
ed within fight of the French army,
Mr. Pitt may hopetodiftrefsthe French
by the bill which he has brought into the
House for putting all their property here
fates
[Whole No. 509.]
into a (late of arreftation ; but like all his
other measures we fesr it will revert upon
this country. They have constantly beat
him at his own arts. He laid his hands
upon ioojoool. of the public money of
France, in our Bank, and they instantly
clapped the National Seal on all British
property. He palled an Alien adt, and
they flopped all communications between
the two countries. Thus have they ever
gone beyond his efforts, and thus, when
ever he has tampered with credit, have
they uniformly made it turn out to the dis
advantage of Britain.
General Brown is to succeed General
Wurmfer in his command, The Princc
of Waldeck is to command in Brifgaw.
The news from Pari% which we have
received down to the 23d inttant, is par
ticularly to be noticed for the number of
executions which continue to take place
in that Capital; as well as for the celebra
tions in it of the anniversary of the mur
der of the unfortunate Louis XVI.—
They form a very striking contrast to the
honor yesterday paid by the British Par
liament to the memory of Charles the I ft,
to expiate 'he crimes of a set of fa&ious
men in this nation during the last century,
who brought this Prince to the block.
Private accounts from Paris mention,
that the Convention makes a boast of hav
ing men in this country, who are assisting
its views ; and that it daily expects a depu
ation from hence, to concert the plan of
securing the descent of the French in En
gland.
ENGLISH Prisoners in FRANCE.
Extract of a letter from a Gentleman at
Bourdeaux, dated December 26, 1793*
"On the 24th, all the prisoners con"
fined here asfubjefts of Great Britain were
libeiated. On Christmas day I had. the
honor, with numbers of my countrymen,
of dining in company with one of the
commiflioners—when he addrefTed us in a
short but pathetic speech, assured us that
it was with the greatest relnclance the
National Convention found itfelf under
neceflity of adopting measures so repug
nant to their wilhes, but that from the vast
number of spies in France, such a mea
sure had become for a time in difpenfably
necefTary. He begged further to afiiire
us, that the firft neutral vessel which ar
rived in that harbor, should be hired for
the purpose of coßvoying to their native
country, all fubje&s of G>reat Britain as
should wish tq. return.—Never were pri
soners so happf as we: were during our con
finement—beautiful gardens to walk in,
and a free intercourse with each other }
we had liberty to write to our friends, to
gether with plenty of the befl prqviflons,
good beds, &c. and all at the expence of
the nation."
The total amount of the French Emi
grants appears now, from the mufUr, re
turned to governmeut, to amount to
14,877 men, women, and children,
Wrought off by the British fleet from Tou
lon.
A letter from Toulon dated the 4th inft,
states, that the executions go on rapidly
in that city, and that already 3000, ac
cused of having traiteroufly afiifted the
Englith, have been tried by the military
tribunal, and guillotined.
HOUSE OF COMMONS.
French property inforeign Countries.
The Solicitor General, after a short
preface, on the qeceflity of bringing for
ward a measure, mentioned by his Right
Honorable Friend on Saturday, relative
to the late decree palled in the French
National Convention, and dbferving, that
if any difference of opinion should arise <
on any part of the provifiou which should
be proposed that might be discussed in
some stage of the bill, said he should now
content himfelf with moving for leave to
bring in a bill. He moved accordingly,
that leave be given* to bring in a bill, to
prevent the application of debts in thei: .a* of aiy of rti? fubjeSj belonging to
bis Maje&y, to or for tite difpvjki of per
fjns relider.t iti Frartce, u ndcr the power
, of the persons wh» exerpife the present
Government hi J i Mice, and for preferring
the produce of such property to the Indi
ridual owners thereof.
The question was put and carried.
PLYMOUTH, January 22.
„ Yetterday the French celebrated at Mill
Prison, as a civic fete, the anniversary of
. the execution of Louis XVI. The pro
-ceflion went round the square of the prison,
formed a circle, and then sung the Mar
feiilois Hymn, Ca ira, &c. They then
began to ihout, threw their capj in the air,
took a civic oath, and put a red cap upon j
a pole. |
NATfONAL CONVENTION,
Tuesday, Jan.'ji.
The Jacobins of Paris came to the Con
vention, and made a speech »n the anniver
' fary of the death of Louis the tyrant. ' Re
presentatives of a free people,' said the ora- I
tor, ' this day is the anniversary of the legal
death of a tyrant. So grand a day, which
recalls to Republican fouls an a<st ordained
by reason and by nature as the firll step to
wards the happiness of all human kinds
fhouldbe celebrated by every man who knows
how to estimate his own dignity. The So
ciety of Jacobin* with fouls that burn for
liberty, have in a mass consecrated this grand
day, to felicitate anew the true Mountain
eers, on the courage of whom as the organ
of the French people, they exterminated the
monster that devoured them. Tho Society
invites you, Mountaineers, to make a decree
that this anniversary (hall be regularly cele
brated and consecrated to liberty: continue
your labours with that firmnefs which be
longs to free men ; be the terror of the ty
rants of the glebe, and the hope of fuflfering
humanity. By and bye, through the exam
ple of Frenchmen, all nations will (hake off
the yoke r.nd break their fetters ; and then,
, if thefuhlime atchievement of a people, whpfe
organ you have the happiness to be, (hould
. serve as a model to all nations, your civic I
virtue and your courage (hall serve as a les
son to their representatives.
" There is no equality, no liberty, where
ther<S is a king ; there is no happiness without
liberty; you have destroyed a King, and
you have thereby (hewn your desire to efta
.Hifh equality and liberty, that is to fay, the
happiness of the people ; you have therefore
deserved well of your country."
Anfw»r of the President.—" The anniver
sary of the death of a tyrant, which is a day
of glory to the French people, is a day of
terror and of mourning for despots and their
supporters.—This memorable day announces
• the re-y akening of a deeping people, and
the massive weapon of the revolution is rea
dy to crufli the monsters who hold nations
enslaved ; and the glorious Tree of Liberty
{hall not peri(h, while their impure blood
(hall nouri(h and fructify its root.
" Citizens, the feftival that you are go
ing to celebrate, ought to animate the cou
rage of the Sans Culottes, appease the manes
of the vi&ims maflacred under the flandard
of tyranny, and avepge human kind for the
outrages that they have fuffered for more
than fourteen centuries. It is on this day, it
is at this hour, that the head of a tyrant
falls—it is before the statue of liberty that
you are going to found the last hour of
crowned freebooters, and all their satellites.
The National Convention will take into con
federation the petition you have made, and
invites you to the honors of the fitting."
These two speeches were ordered to be
sent to all the Popular Societies, to the De
partments, and to the Armies.
-Sort Louis, new named Fort Vauban.
is secured to us. Fort
Vauban is ours, said the corrupt emigrants
in their intercepted letters. Wait but a few
days, said the Committee of Public Safety,
in its last report on Landau, and the slaves
of Pruflia and Austria will no longer defile
our territory: the prophecy is fulfilled, and
Fort Vauban is at this moment occupied by
the troops of the Republic.
" Cowards are always cruel and destruc
tive. The banditti have disappeared like ma
lignant meteors. They have set fire to a
part of the Fort; have laid waste the vari
ous houses of the town ; have placed mines
in all parts, some of which are sprung and
have carried ofF the,cannon.
" Alfatia is wholly preserved; but the
Austrian, after ruining what he could not
preserve, has prudently put the Rhine be
tween himfelf and the French Republican,
We have loft houses and fortifications, but
ive have an invulnerable rampart, a Republi
can army. The place has not cost us a single
man, and according to fcientific men, the
recovery of Fort Vauban by liege, would
have been a loss qf j or 6000 men to the
state. We (hall rebuild the necessary Forts,
and as to houses, in fortified towns, they
have always been rather injurious than ufe
fui. Beside, what have we to regret for
places that either have the cowardice to in
"vite or to receive the enemy ?
" Do not imagine, however, though Aus
tria has avoided battle by cowardly flight,
that there has been no trial of patriotism ho
jiorable to the French soldier. The powder
> ntiagasdae* were undermined, and matches
were prepared through the whole town to
r , , bi ™ * the habitations ; v but our brave vo
lunteers flew on ail fides and snatched up the
mat« lies, defpifmg danger, with ihoft admi
► rable courage.
u the mal contents spread a
rumour that the army of the Republic had
been defeated at Worms. The enemy at
tempted to make a movement, but the Repub
licans loon recovered their position. Worms
[ is at present ours, where we have found im
mense magazines of corn, leather, and cloth.
" In common wars, after fuccefles so nu
merous, peace has been fought for and ob
i tamed. The wars of kings only san
guinary tournaments, the expences of which
were defrayed by the people, while tyrants
insolently aflumed all the pomp to them
selves: but in a war for freedom, there is j
but one means, that of exterminating def- j
pots. When the horror of tyranny, and the
inftin#.of freedom, have armed the brave,
they will only Iheathe the sword by dictating
peace. The coalition has harnessed twenty
one nations to the corps of defpoti'm, the
inhabitants of which still are {lumbering :
the people of England, Scotland, Ireland,
Holland, Hanover, Brunfwick, Hefle, Prus
sia, the Imperialists, Auftrians, Hungarians,
Bohemians, Belgians, Ruffians, Piedmontefe, j
Sardinians, Parmesans, Florentines, Romans, j
Neapolitans and Spaniards. To enumerate ;
them is but to give a lift of the vanquiflied.
" What campaign was ever more glorious, j
presenting as it does, the Spaniards and the j
English flying from Toulon, the Pruflians
beaten at the Mozelle, the repaf- '
ling the Rhine, and the Dutch chaced from
Dunkirk ?'
" Some voices however, already are heard
declaiming on the advantages of
What man of understanding, what lincere
patriot will dare to mention peace, without
dreading to compromise freedom ? Who
then will speak of peace ? Those who hope
to adjourn the counter revolution for fb\ne
months or some years by giving foreign na
tions and tyrants time to breathe,
their people, provision their magazines; and
recruit their armies.—Who is it that calls
i for peace ? Brunfwick, Cobourg, Pitt, Hood,
and Ricardos. The deceit is too grofe, for
it is our cowardly enemies themselves who
mduUrioufly difieminate this opinion, and
have the folly to hepe it will prevail.
" Let our popular societies seize every
means of developing the crimes of the Bri
tilh government, and of proving that its
minifier has familiarized national despotism,
and in a pompous manner has substantiated
the royal tyranny. It is the forms of this <
government, which you ought to destroy."
LONDON, February 7.
The French are making altonifhing ex
ertions to fit out their navy ; and fgr this
purpose, every seaman in France is'put in
a Hate of requilitfon !
Letters from the Continent, by the
Flanders mail of yesterday, bring the in
teresting intelligence, that the French have
re-occupied the important heights of Op.
penheim, and have pufted their advanced
posts within two leagues of Mentz.
On the other hand, the army of 32,000
men, intended for the siege of Fort Louis,
has polled itfelf before Manheim. They
.have brought up the heavy artillery jfod
pontoons, and batteries aieerefted, not
only for the purpose of bombardiug the
town, but of covering their paflage over
the Rhine.
The accounts of the demolition of Fort
Louis, ate true only in part. Two bas
tions, or rather diftinft forts, looking to
ward Alsace, having been completely de
stroyed ; but the French entered the toivn
withaftonilhing intrepidity, and werethere
in time to cut off the fuffees which led to
the powder magazine and the other works.
Our Letters from Basle, in Switzerland,
dated Jan. 30, fay, that aFrench gentle
man had arrived there, in ten days from
Nantz, who states, that at the time he Ift
that place, there cxifted not the smallest
trace of the army of the Royalists.
I For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
, To , brin S about a war, the ground must
be taken carefully. The people are irri
tated, but decidedly opposed to hostile
ineafures. Those who hunger and third;
X" b ecause they will hunger and
thrrft nil there is one, have a plain game
to play To irritate the people more and
m ° re ' r tlme or an y relaxation on the
part of Great Britain ftiould be likely to
? ' e the genial rage, it must be heated
by some new fuel. It must be established
as a rule, that a man's patriotism is to be
meaiured by his fury. To ad against the
general movement is hard work, like row
ing agatnft a strong current: But to go as
the public is going, and to persuade them
o go alter, to find tliem angry, and to
exafpmte thsm up to a pitch to ast as
s well as threaten violent things, Is aot the
0 mod difficult thing in the world. From
words to blows is but one stage iti pafTion.
What was attempted la(t summer ? War.
What is iu train at this moment ? Look
! at the refolws of our factious Societies}
[ at the style of certain newspapers. There
is another place where the mod outrage
' ous language has been used. Let our pru
' dent thinking men examine the whole
of this way of proceeding, and doubt, if
they possibly can, that some persons, whom
it is n<St prudent to mention, intend to
have war: That others who perhaps do
not precisely fee what they arc about, are
joining the violent party and are getting
along towards hodilities a step at a time.
Thus we shall findourfelves in three months
at the edge of the pit, and wonder how
we came there. It is time, if it is not too
late, for real Patriots to take their Rati
ons, and to keep the violent paflions,
which are always the forerunners of war,
from taking the lead. Thus far the ef
fcdf of our newspaper and speech-making
and refoldtion-making rage on our own
citizens has been hinted at : but let usex
; tend our views. The tendency of many
: things that have been said, and of some
j few that have been a died, to exasperate
! the people of England so as to make them
run into a war in support of the unjust
j proceedings of their ministry, is felf evi
dent. What would the feelings of our
own citizens he if the newspapers of Eng
land, and the debates of Parliament were
as outrageous against our country, as their
proceedings in the Weft Indies have been
opposed to the principles of j lift Ice ?
Would it have been possible ta have kept
those who are now so violent, within any
bounds of neutrality ? Let our Farmers,
our Merchants, our Tradesmen who must
bear the burdens of the war, pay due at
tention to the movements of those who
seem to be so ready to make it.
For tie Gazette of the United States.
The " Democrat," acknowledges the
receipt of an admonition in the Gazette
j of Wednesday, and proceeds to apply the
general doflrincs it contains. If the " ex
ercise of sovereignty engenders a <wi/h to
usurp," it certainly behoves the people to
watch over this unlucky human inclina
tion, unless it be proved, that it is unna
tural to the modefl spirit of aristocracy, or
the meek temper of men in office, and the
cxclufive property of democracy and equa
lity. And that those who quaff deeply
of wealth and power, are less liable to
" intoxication," than citizens abftra&edly
employed in discussing and disseminating
the principles of liberty.
The democrat in fad condolence, sensi
bly feels the truth of the position, " That
when secret combinations diredi the choice
of repiefentatives, the Republic ceases to
be free." Whether it is most pertinent
to the paper combination, or to the de
mocratic societies, the reader must himfelf
If to the former, then his
Ipirits revive up to the congratulatory
pitch, upon reading, « that Clubs are the
forerunners of reform in a bad govern
mentor in other words, that they tend
to reform, whatever is bad in government.
Thus applying the position, the Republic
" hasceafed to be free," according to the
principles of the paragraphs, and though
the Democrat, admires the foundation,
and proportions of the edifice, he confeffes
that he is not delighted with certain carv
ings and cornices, which have been tacked
to it, since it came from the hands of the
architect.
From the General Aduertifer.
Mr. Bache,
As the division in Senate refpetting Mr.
Jay s appointment has been publiflied with
unusual industry and with a view to conceal
the principles upon which it took place,* I
have procured and beg you to publifli the fol
lowing, which I have reason to believe will
explain the motives and juftify the conduct
of the minority to the fatisfaflion of all
true republicans.
th t T SVimc loVVing refolut!ons were moved in
to Ihr Re^ IV f'V That any communication
to the court of Great Britain which may at
this time beneceffary can be made through
anH TA" C ° Urt With e l ual
and effect and at much less expence than by
Jh Vr e T S an Env °y Extraordinary ; and
that iuch an appointment is at this junAurc
inexpedient and unneeefiary.
2d. That to permit judges of the supreme '
court to hold at the fame time other offices
emanating from and holden at the pleasure
of the executive is d«ftruclive of their inde 1
pendence, and to expose them to the Lflu- j
ence of the executive, is mischievous and Im
politic.
lam informed that a majority of the Se.
Bate appeared to be infentiment with this last
resolution, but the friends of Mr. Jay urged
that his delicacy and sense of propriety would
certainly induce him to resign his office of
chief justice when he lhould accept the o
ther, and no question was taken upon the re
futations ; but they went off, either by a pre
vious question or upon motion for postpone
ment, ip to 16, The minority ftippofed
that more was to be feared from Mr. Jay's
avarice than was to be hoped from his deli
cacy or sense of propriety. The event will
shew who werf right. The divifton was up
on the principles before stated, and not upon
the man, tho' cogent objeaions might have
been urged against him, particularly as hav
ing publicly and officially juftified Great Bri
tain in holding the polls and carrying off the
negroes.
* As the publication alluded to, origina
ted in this Gazette, it may be proper to fay
that the motive herefuggejled, never exifled
in the mind oj the publisher.
CONGRESS.
{N SQNJTE,
Tuesday, April i.
A message from the House of R eprf .
fentatives by Mr. Beckley their Clerk ■
" Mr. President—The House of R e .
prefentatives agree to the amendments of
the Senate to the bill, entitled, « An ast
to provide for placing buoys on certain
rocks off the harbor of New London,
and in Providence river, and other pl a !
ces." And he withdrew.
Mr. Foster reported from the commit,
tee on enrolled bills, that they had exa
mined the bill, entitled, « An ast to pro
vide for the erecting and repairing of ar
lenals and magazines, and for other pur- '
poses"—-The bill, entitled, "An ast
transferring, for a limited time, the ju
rifdiftion of suits and offences, from the
diftrift to the ciicuit court of New Hamp
shire, and aligning certain duties, in ref
peft to invalid penfioncrs, to the attorney
of said diftrift"—and the resolution to
carry into more compleat effect the resolu
tion ditiefting an' embargo," and that '
they were duly enrolled.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their Clerk :
" Mr. President—The Speaker of the
House of Representatives having signed
two enrolled bihs and an enrolled resoluti
on, I am directed to bring them to the
Senate for the signature of the Vice Pre
sident"—And he withdrew.
The Vice President signed the enrolled
bills and the enrolled resolution last report
ed to have been examined, and they were
delivered to the committee, to be laid be
fore the President of the United States
for his approbation.
The petition of Elkanah Prentice,
praying compensation for military servi
ces, and that he be placed 011 the lift of
invalid pensioners, wasvprefented and read.
Ordered, That this petition be referred
| to the Secretary for the department of
war, to consider and report thereon toth*
Senate —
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Wetlnefday, April 2, 1794.
The Vice President laid before the Se
nate a letter from the Secretary for the de
partment of Treasury, enclosing a memoir
of Mr. La Rocque on the politicks of
the United States refpefting their public
debt and agriculture.
The Vice President laid before the Se
nate a letter from the Honourable Antho
ny Morris, Speaker of the Senate of the
commonwealth of Pennsylvania, together
with a certificate of the election of the
Honourable James Rois to be a senator,
to represent said commonwealth in the Se
nate of the United States; which were
read.
Ordered, That they lie on file.
Mr. Foster reported from the commit
tee on enrolled bills, that they had exa
mined the bill, entitled, "An ast o pio
vide for placing buoys on certain rocks off
the harbor of New London and in Provi
dence 11'ver, and other places," and that
it was duly enrolled.
A message from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk :
" Mr. President—The Speaker of the
House of Peprefeiitatives having signed
an enrolled bill, lam directed to bring it
to the Senate for the fignature.of the
Vice President"—and he withdrew.
The Vice President signed the enrolled
bill, entitled, "An ast to provide for
placing buoys on certain rocks off the
\harbor of New London, and in Provi
deuce river, and other places,!' and it was
deliveredtothe committee on eniolled bills
to be laid before the Prciident of the U
nited States for his approbation.
Mr. Foster reported from the commit
tee ou enrolled bills, that they did yefler- [
day, lay the following enrolled bills,
and enrolled resolution before the, Preli
dent of the United States, to'wit : The
bill, entitled, " An ast to provide for
the erecting and repairing of arsenals and
magazines, arid for other purposes," The
bill entitled, " An ast transferring for a
limited time, the juri£diftion of suits and
cffinces from the diftrift to the circuit
court of New Hampshire, and auigning
Certain duties in relpeft to invalid pension
ers, to the attorney of the said diftrift,
"The bill, entitled, "An ast to autho
rize the President of the United States,
in certain cases to alter the place for hold
ing a feflion of Congress. The bill, en
titled, " Art ast for the relief of Stephen
Paranque," and the " resolution to carry
into more compleat effect the resolution
directing an embargo."
The Senate adjourned to I r o'clock
to-morrow morning.
Thursday, April 3 j 1794.
A message from the President of the
United States by Mr. Dancjridge his Sec
retary :
" Mr. President—The President of the
United States did yesterday approve and
sign the ast, entitled, " An ast to .autho
rize the Prciident of the United States in
certain cases to alter the place for holding
feflion of Congress."—And he with
drew.
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the Heufs of Representatives, therewith.
The Vice-President laid before the Se
nate a report of the Secretary for the de
partment .of War, 011 the petition of El
kanah Prentice, which was read.
Ordered. Tliat it lie on the table.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Bcckley their Clerk :
" Mr. President—The Piefident of the
United States hath notified the Houle
j*f Representatives that be did on the 2d
instant, approve and sign the ast, entitled
" an ast to provide for the erecting and
repairing of arsenals and magazines, and
for other purposes"—and the ast, entitled
" au ast for the relief of Stephen Pa
lanque," also, " a resolve to carry into
more compleat effect, the resolution di
recting an embargo and that he this
day, approved and signed the ast, enti
tled, " an ast transferring, for a limited
time, the juiifdiftion of suits and offen
ces, from the Diftrift to the Circuit Court
of New-Hampfliire ; and afligning cer
tain duties, in relpeft to invaiid pension
ers; to the Attorney of the (aid diftrift."
And he withdrew.
After the consideration of the execu
tive bnfinefs—
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
to morrow morning.
From the Daily Advertiser.
T0 the MA N ivhich appeared in the Dai
ly Advertiser on Thursday, March 17th,
1794.
IF (lander, malice and falfhood make
up the character of a Man, then your
. publication is flamped with strong evidence
of the propriety of its signature.
If a bale r;ffeftat:on of benevolence, for
the purposes of private resentment—is
the employment of detestable means to
obtain what you falfely fiippofe " a po
pular end," or if an attempt under the
veil of darkness to ruin a person who ne
ver injured you, are evidences of manhood,
then your title to it is indeed eftablilhed.
You have aimed at me a deadly blow,
the stroke now recoils, and your guilty
conscience will give it all the effect I
wish.
You have bellowed on me the hand
some appellation of—
" An avaricious catch penny fhewman,
" Tom Thumb, Esq.
" Keeper of the Guillotine,
" Keeper of beasts, &c. &c."
Poor pitiful offspring of billingsgate,
thou oughteft to have known that a keep
er of beasts is better than the bead who
is kept—for had you had the recollection
of an ass, you might have known, that
this scurvy -barefaced abuse would com
pletely unveil you ; in all this you went
aftrny from the path hypocrisy dictated ;
you forgot yourfelf; you should have
swallowed your gall, and the world would 1
perhaps have taken you for an angel. 1 i
For you pray too in the dark—" God
forbid ——" Forbid it God of all mercy."
Very pious indeed, and probably had you '
at the moment given vent to the devout
feelings of your heart, and finilhed your
prayev, you would have added " forbid
that Tom Thumb, Esq. fiiall be any lon
ger the catch penny Ihovvman—-and O
grant, that sooner or later I may be the
keeper of the beasts myfelf."
The mod undifcerning mull perceive
that all your motives are not avowed ; —
some secret springs must actuate your ma
licious heart—nothing else can account fol
your conduct, a certain constitutional ten
derness rtiay cause you to shrink back from
instruments of punishments but to this,
no rational man can impute your violent
abuse and overflowing spleen.
But with an effrontery peculiar to your
felf you have thought fit to traduce also,
the American character. You feerri to
fiippofe the good people bf New-York,
capable of being diverted by the fight of
the guillotine. But know fir, that this
instrument is viewed with horror, as eve
ry such instrument ought to be—That it
leaves an impreflion on every /nind, unfa
vorable to the cruelty of penal laws, and
the inftiftion of sanguinary punishments :
This impreflion is a ufeful one in a coun
try where a reform in the penal laws is
much wished for, and capital punishments
are perhaps too frequent. But your idea
that humanity is in danger of being ba
nished from our citizens unless the guillo
tine is exhibited only in pictures, in mi
niature, or in paste board models, is wor
thy only of their ridicnle and contempt.
American principles are not to be shaken
by trifles, whatever you may fuppofc.
But you go on, to tell American citi
zens that " a dangerous spirit is creep
ing in among them"—' an insidious spi
rit.' If this is so, I hope indeed it is not
the spirit you have manifefted. You call
this ' art awful period.' But why all this '
alarm ? Alas, Gardiner Baker (the poor
mechanic you affected to difpife) has got
in a small private room the model of a
guillotine, large enough to strike off my
noddle ; and this he shows to every fiend
of his that particularly requests it ! 1 !
—' You think this a political decadence'—
• a said presage of decaying morality'—
' an unbridled licence' and an attempt 'to
weaken the government.'
Alas, poor creatine, your friends have
reason to tremble for your intellects !
' Fret now and flatter yourfelf' as much
as you please, and dream if you like of
' air guns, guillotines; rattle snakes and
scalping knives'—' deformiiies, deleteri
ous plants and venomous animals.'
Adi'm,
ANOTHER MAN.
April 7, 1794.
—mm*mmm——— ——tmmml
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 24. (
\
General Rochanbeau's Aid de Camp
is arrived at New-York from Newport
An arrival at Baltimore from Jamaica,
brings an account that Captain Barney had
been tried and acquitted.
A New-York paper of the 22d instant,
fays, Mr. Jay will fail from that port in
about 14 days.
Interejling particulars of the Jiege of Mar
tinique—and the surrender of Fort Bour
bon, as publiftied in the St. George's
Chronicle and Grenada Gazette of March
28 th.
MARTINIQUE,
March 6. The batteries of the be
siegers being completed, to the number of
60 pieces—
March 7. At half past four in the morn
ing, from the signal of a rocket from the
camp, a general attack began, and the
fire of all the batteries was directed upon
Fort Bourbon, which was vigorously re
turned by the besieged i-' towards night
the fire ceased upon all fides. On this
day the English had five men killed and
wounded from their own fault in their
batteries.
March 8. About 3 o'clock the fire be*,
gan very violently, but that of Fort Bour
bon weakened : towards the evening Sir
Charles Grey gave orders to fire only by
intervals : Fort St. Louis was cannonaded
and bombarded the whole night by the
gunboats and bomb-batteries.
March ()th. A general cannonade and
bombardment: at 5 in the morning a piquet
guard from Fort-Royal attacked the poll of
Lacofte, and was repulsed ; but being after
wards supported by the garrison of Fort St.
Louis, and some armed men from thetown,
thejr intrenched themselves under the walls
of the Hospital, and in this situation fought
till 10 o / lock: the British troops under a
croft fire from two forts, and of some can
non placed at the point of the Hospital, and
exposed to the mufquetry of the besieged,
displayed a degree of firmnefs and resolution
beyond all praile; the engagement was fi
nished by the effe&s of a n pounder placed
upon Morn Tartenfon, which drove the pa
triots from their intrenchmente ; the Engiifh
had some killed and wounded in this aition ;
the loft of the enemy is not yet known. Our
batteries,- to which an augmentation of four
mortars had been added, playing during the
whole engagement; the forts of the enemy
kept up a terrible fire, but fortunately with
out any mifchief j the reft of the day passed
more quietly ; the whole night a cannonade
and bombardment was kept up upon Fort
Louis both from the sea and land.
March loth. Little firing on either fide;
tie approaches were carried on, and the bat
teries of the befiegeu augmented ; iriforma
tion was received from a deserter, that the
bombs had done much damage to Fort Bour
bon : during the night the batteries were
almost silent, but the bombardment against
Fort St. Louis was cortftantly kept up ; the
sire-os the enemy became much weaker.'
March T ith. Little firing dnring the
night. The scaling of Fort-Louis was a
gitated at head-quarters : in order to ac
complish the establishment of a mortar bat
tery at the Poligon, two strong batteries
of cannon were formed, one upon Morne
Tartenfon, and the other upon the heights
of Viomenil; these two batteries were
manne4 by sailors. Mr. Daoule, the fam
ofis partizan, intrenched himfelf upon his
own hill, and refufed to surrender: 250
men marched againlt him, and conduced
liirn this day to St. Pierre's with some
of his accomplices, and a great quantity of
mnfquets and fide-arms.
March 12th. Little fire in the morn
ing, the reft of the day quiet; a flag of
truce was sent to Fort-Bourbon ; upon
his return the fire of the befiegeis upon
Fort-Bourbon and Fort St. Louis was
tremendous until the next day.
The army is in high spirits, in general
very few sick, killed or wounded.
St. GEORGE's (Grenada) March 18th.
After having been involved for a conside
rable time part, in a labyrinth of incoherent
reports, reQjedling the fate of Martinique,
we have at last the fatiafaftion of announ
cing its final surrender to the British arms.
This agreeable information was brought by
Capt. Holman who arrived here in the Fan
Fan lift night. The well directed and in
cessant fire thas had been kept up by the En
giifh batteries had so much damaged Fort
Bourbon, that it had 'jeen deemed practica
ble for some time palt to carry it by alTault ;
but from the certain knowledge that the be
siegers had that the mines of the enemy were
carried to a considerable diflance from the bo
dy of the place, it was not thought proper
to facrifice the lives of such a number of brave
men as must have perished, if the besieged
should fiave sprung them, which there was
every reason to be ieve w'ould have been done.
On the fide of the Fort next the town, the
natural ftr ngth of the place, and the protec
tion of Fort Louis, had been so much depen
ded on, that that fide was left without those
subterraneous works.
■The capture of Fort Louis therefore be
came an object nec eflary to pave the way for
the carrying bf Fort Bourbon. The former
was taken without any loft on Thurfday,and
the town of Port Royal with all the ship
ping in the Carenage, fell into the hands of
the Engiifh. This was an acquisition of great
value and importance. On Sunday, the ene
my received the last fummons,and on perceiv
ing the advantages the besiegers had gained,
and the advances they were making , agreed,
to admit a British regiment into the Fort to
remaih together with the French garrison till
the terms could be finally adjusted. The
sixth regiment accordingly marched in and
remained till Tuesday, when the Engiifh col
ours were hoisted, and the French marched
out with the honors of war, to the number
of 800, 200 of whom were whites, and the
remainder negroes and mulattoes. They are
all to be shipped to France.
Four hundred of the garrison had been
killed during the siege, and the works
were in a state of ruin.
The greatest part of the guns were
dismounted, the mortar beds rendered
useless, the buildings within the fort en
tirely destroyed, and the body of the
place filled with rubbish. The loss of
the British on the whole did not exseed
two hundred.
To the above information we are sor
ry to add, that a Captain whose name we
have not learned, charged with Sir Chailes
Grey's dispatches, was unfortunately
drowned, in attempting to go on board
the Blonde Frigate, appointed by the
Admiral to carry home the intelligence
for Government.
/ /
A summons has already been sent to
St. Lucia demanding the furrejoder of that
Island, which it is not expected" to make > s
any r?fiftance.
Guadaloupe is the next obj? ft to which
the operation of the forces is to be direct
ed.
General Roehambeau has it left to his
ele&ion to be sent either to France or A
merica, and it is believed that he will be
prudent enough to prefer the latter when
he considers the fate that commonly awaits
the Republican Generals when they fail
of fuiccefs.
By this Day's Mail.
, BOSTON, April 15.
We have the pleafute to inform the pub
lic of th'e arrival in this port, yesterday, of
the schooner Betsey, Capt, Carver ; and
schooner Ranger, Capt. Atwood, from
Jamaica, where they had been carried in
for legal adjudication, tried and acquitted,
as no proofs of French property could be
found.—That many others, it was expec
ted, would be immediately released, not
withstanding the counter-inftruftions of
the Bth January had not been received from
England.
By Captain Carver we furtherr learn,
that Captain Barney, (who report said
had been condemned,) was tried, acquit
ted, and enlarged. >
The opiriiou of the Solicitor-Genera!
of Jamaica is, that no American veflbl
could be condemned under the orders of
the 6th November.
The above vefiels are fjrid to have
brought home near 15,000 dollars.
CARLISLE, Pen. April 12.
On Monday laxt Lient. Richard Hazle
wood was' thrown from his horse and kil
led ; this "accident happened on the moun
tain near Strafburgh ; his horse frighted,
took flight and threw Mr. Hazlewood a
mong the rocks where he received almoll
instant death —Last week Lieut. Hazle
wood marched with troops through this
town ; and this morning his remains weVc
brought to town to be buried in the
ground adjoining this borough.
The committee of the House of Repre
sentatives on the refutation inserted in the
firft page of this Gazette, reported a bill
this day, which was read twice and order
ed to be engrossed for a third reading.
The ways and means were under confi
deration—further progress was made this
day.
We hear that the Britilh Commander
at Martinique, has changed the name of
Fort-Bourbon, to that of Fort-George—
and Fort-Louis, to Fort-Edward.
C 5" In the piece signed "A Democrat"
publifhedon Monday, sth. paragraph 4th
line, for "a portion" " read a fortiori."—
18th line for " equally " tead equality.
NEW THEATRET
TO-MORROW EVENING,
April 25.
Will be performed,
A TRAGEDY, called
HAMLET,
PRINCE of DENMARK.
Hamlet, Mr. Fennelt
King, Mr. Green
Ghost, Mr. Whitlock
Horatio, Mr. Marihall
Laertes, Mr. Moreton
Polonius, . Mr. Morris
Rofencraus, Mr. Francis
Guildenftern, Mr. Cleveland
Player King, Mr. De Moulin
Francisco, Mr. Darley jun.
Marcellus, Mr. Harwood
Bernardo, Mr. Warrell
Oftric, Mr. Finch
Officer, Mr. Bliflet
Grave-diggers, Mr. Bates & Mr. Wignell
Queen, Mrs. Shaw
Ophelia, Mrs. Marflioll'
Player Queen, Mrs. Rowfon
To which will be added,
A FARCE, called the
Wrangling Lovers,•
O R,
Like Mafler # Like Man.
Don Carlos, Mr. Moreton
Don Lozenzo, Mr. Gretn
Lopez, Mr. Bates
Safifho, Mr. Wigneil
Leonora, Mrs. Francis
Jacintha, Mrs. Rowfou
t• PZi'.j*L 'April it, 1794-
*_* Nottrc, to dußtar,k i£ie
fcy fnm Be the members of the Corfaratian
far the Kdvf *f Pztr and Prefby-
Hvti ftrs, <w.d ms tine Poor and L)if
tfytfid SFuieau aed. children «f Prejifileriau
SSiirfirrtt that a meeting of bid corporation
is so take place, on the aid *lay of May sis *t,
ia tit ic/xjosd fte&yieiiaa cku-cii in it city
rt ii 4 o'clock P- M. far She
•frfzaw?! of aMfaci imfiarf? » may ties be
broagi}/ before 1 die S?«ani.
ASH&EL GREEK,
Secretary of the Corporatioii.
tatliAs6i
A FEW POUNDS |
V A N°l L L A j
FO* SiU BY
Louis Ofinont. i
April 19. jf-
Excellent CLARET,
la feog-lhcads aud in cases of 50 bottles each.
i L S-O,
A few cases Champaigae Wine;
MADEIRA,
la hogsheads aad quarter calks,
FOJL SAIE BT
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. at*, South FroiU (Ircct.
}w. «, dtf
• ' por.SALE^
JSY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Majket-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery,
Dehc»ed t«e*hi'oit io a new point ol view
Hs oa aurW*, industry, and the fence 4/
jWaeM Sow* ta&s arvd citloulit«(>»« offered
ti-1 £rove ifar; tabor offmmem to be tnucb more
t--han tfcw ot jiaocs ; that countries ate
jrada, ptt«teria.i a*d i« proportion asvbe
islv3f esjjoy ihe fruits /ff their own
; a«d jv»:Ke tiae ncctifary conciufion, that
flweiry i* ifkpaliiic as well as unjjvjl.
Pifcttc£ 25 Cents. dtf
ternary 35.
On Tuekfay lie 29th instant
it ji o'clock in the Fort noon, -will be
irAfi fey pofcEe TifocUie, at Mr. Bowen's
Exiic'noE Room, No. 9, month Elgltii
Thttfty
A COLLECTION OF
Capital Pictures,
By the saoft approved French, Italian, and
f leralfla Matters, collected by a geutiemao of
. tzihe in Europe aMj inferior to any that haw
ever fceeft oSr.ed lor fate in A rubric a.
Tbcle Pi&ares may be viewed at any time
f>rcvi«*ss the day of'fale at rfce Exhibition
R<v»m> whene catalogues may be had, and at
tike Swbfcrihcrs Hoojn.
LIKEWISE,
A ColleSion of Books t
in foT<£\VK langnag«s, 44)chas Ruffian, Pojifh.,
a snaps in the iaid Languages.
FOOTMAN & CO. Auaifmteru
Apr I st. tuth&iUf
* -j "
JUST iPUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOBSON,
BoifrUer t at the Statu Houjie in Second ftrasi,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPAEDIA,
OS. X
DtSiasary of Artr, Sdeaca, and Mijui
fameser f^kers.ture:,
OS a eaii.thy new,; by which the aif
£srccit &;eseesind acts-arc ihgeSbed into the
Jili.ufi n«j*i(ei or lyfteins. This;
" tains tin; articles, tasdals, «nedi
ei ®£tiWntjn asetaphyfcs,
mict«lcope, midwifry, and a great
*ar«ty * ii'igrioliical and ini&eßaaeotis ar
ticles, v!l«&raterf with nineteen copperplates
Tkc tables of JegaritTum, tec. w f>ich
wen; di ia the Irath vajauoe, are lifb
jowed to *}»■>.
Ei-»ea of tfacc «ork a*e now pub-
Hfc«3, iati the XJlth is in tame fcrorauxlnefs.
On the Si-si uj' t*ie price
e< fs'Sibription *vas arxiraXad TLH dollars oa,
a Cetta n«t takon before irtiat fane. The 4ib
fic :■ rprKtrt k fill] open 01 Ael» terms, and if
» ! cc? Teoia: nby tbe fir 2o» Jafw ne*t,the
price w;-J: Sae yaitsd Xs>i dollar; oiore, .on
aay ccpiei B-lucLbataj as fiui-brJoeKj iar after
that
*,* Astamyof tJie fijbferihers Jiawe«»ke«
aiiy f w three tour, ike:, ve lunits, iliey are
ea roefflv senusStd to ta4e «ijj and pay (or the
rear : «ni{ at it becomes affjioiik to
clz\-^!*eterejects, A-wJ-the pubJJbtr.<J«£ not
inf. (S fca :n [qlf Usßiup tm*Au- ms any fiatt* <d\c r
tk; fieri-day as j«Jy sjcxt-
April it. m&th&w
>'•% TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
am? Lot ef Croitud,
rlane^O)lefitaiation, —alto aConntryfrat ,
w itai« Ami brs«f the Ci ty, wit acres of ,
iaiaS, »c -41 acr« of laiki aud meadow, the j
in the*ion-it} j
of the city, in<ize, or coir»cniience.
aa.<tafcciai-i iffiy c* Efce printer. j
f23 ' mlktlL—ti |
•»
»
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO «E SO J.D BY
THOMAS DOBS ON,
No. 41, south Second Jireet,
Extrad; of a letter from a gen
tleman in America to a trierni in England, on
the Subject of Emigration—price i Sth of a
dollar.
EcrhJijjjlictil EJLlllifbments detrimental to
a Hi ate.
Price 1 8 ot a Dollar.
•pril 22.
Concluding Sales.
THE Saibfcriber having entered into Co
partnership with Mr. John Bai tholomew in
the of Sugar Refining, will <iifpofe
o£ the
Remaining Sleek ori hand
CONSISTING Of
Silver, Plated, & japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, he. &c.
By Wbolejale at Prime Coji for Cajh.
John Dorfey,
No. tt, Northed street.
April sa. tnth&s6w
Treasury Department,
Revenue Office, April l6th, 1794.
Communications by poll or
otherwise, will be received by vvay of infor
mation at the Office of the Commissioner of
the -Revenue from persons willing to supply iron
Canncm, Cannon Ball, and Shells, for the for
tifications and Ships of War- The fi:nefe of
the metal for cannon, and the capaoity.of rhe
■founders ?h in preparing and mix>
ing the metal, and in casting aud boring the
caanaea (w-hicfa are to 4>e cast JoUdly) wijj re
quire to be par vculariy -Rated.
S iELilar communications will also be secevy.
Ed from any persons willing to supply Jive
oak aacl red cedar timber for
of the (hips orf vai". Different plans of pro-
and ftyjpjying tbe fame may be propos
ed. l'he convenience of the fiiuation in re
gard to navigation, and the state of the timber
whether already fallen or hereafter to be cut,
will require to be noticed.
AH the neceflary particulars mi regard to
thef-vera] articles wbicji a»e warned, will be
specified ic.contra As intended to be grounded
in part on the information,'which is hereby
fought.
April 17. tuth&sgw.
*£be Ground Plan
OF THE
City and Suburbs
OF
PHILADELPHIA
takeh nom actual suxmr,
IT is with pleasure that the publilher hasto ■
inform hitfubferibers'and the puttie in gene
ral, that the plate is row under the hands of
the engraven, and in greaterfarwardnefs fhan.
was at fir ft contemplated. At theiarne time
lie begs leave to remind them, th>t fubferip
t.on papers are ftifl open at melt of the noted
o#ak-<ftores m the city ; a „d that he hones
from the whole of them to he enabled to farm
fueh a r.elpeftablecatalogue of -name*, as will
do a credit to the -work, as well as aifor«l a
reafsnafcle endeurageraent to the undertake-r
Tikofe who are delirous of further informa.
tion are requested to call on
Benjamin Davies,
No. *>8, Market street.
A *> ril M- n.&rthtf
Henry Rape State of Maryland.
®" , f High Court of Chancery,
Benjamin Gait her}- March fth. 1794.
and \
Basil Gait her •*
The Complainant states
in his bill that the delendn-nts Benjamin Gai
ther and Basil Gaither were seized in fee as
tenants in common of a tract of land in Fie.
derick County, called Hammond's Strife ;
that being so fehid, Basil executed a power
ef attorney to Benjamin authorizing him to
fell his, the said Basil's in t ere A in the fa id
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin fold
the said land to a certain William Gaither far
the oirfideration of fix hundred pounds which
hath been since paid, tliat the said William
ibath affignedto the Complainant Henry Rape
the bond executed by the laid Benjamin far
the iceiweyance of t.ie said land : The (Com
plainant now further Hates (and fa appears
to the Chancellor) that the defendants are
noo-refidents of the Hate of Maryland, and
herefare out of the reach of the process of
this court.
11 is the efare adjudged and ordered, that
the Genvplai»a»t procure a copy of this or
der to be inter ted in the newfpaperof Aogell
aol Sud kvan, and in the United States Gazette
at least three weeks facceflively, ibefase the
twentieth day of May next ; to the intent
that tlie Defendants and all others, who may
conceive tihemfelves interelied in thejjrcmrf
es, may have notwee to appear in this court,
on or before the thitd Tucfday in September
«ext, to shew cause wherefore a<decree should
* >t pal's far veftißg in the Cwnpla«»ai* q C om- '
ip.«te legal title to the land aforefaid.
Tell,
SAMUEL HAS YF.Y HOWARD, ;
&eg. Cor. Caii.
J£&nrfc tB. e*4ihfcfs*"
1
ADVERTISEMENT. v
SALES at NEW-YORK, by A. L.
HLEECKER & SONS,
On Tiurfday the 15th May tuext at Twelve
o'clock at the Tannae CoJ&e House,
THE FOILOWIWG
T'raßs of Land\
111 W-tkins and Flint's purchase, in the coun
ty of Tioga, - state ol New York.
Tib; containing acres
Southwell qaar. of Township No. 2, 9,424
NortUwefl do. do. 4, 5>^47
Northeast do. do. 6, 10,525
Southwest do. do. 7> 9 000
Southwell do do. 8, 3<95 3
Northwest do. do. R, 6,? $0
Southeast do. do. t), 6,2J0
Southeast do, <do- 10,
NorthAeft do. do. 10, 10,475
70,521
Theft lands are rapidly enciealing in value,
large settlements are already made in several
of the townlhipsj the goodnel's of foil, and
the advantages in point of situation being so
well known, render any lurther description
unneceflary, A m pcs the tracts and condi
tions of sale may be feeo at No. 10,
street, New-York.
April 10. tuth&stKjM
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, W&lU&reet, New-Yojik.
THE Subscriber intending to confuie himfelf j
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION) begs leave to of
ftr bis ferviccsto hk friends and others in the
fine ol a Stock Broker. Those who may please ,
to favor him with their may dfpeud
upon having it tratffc&ed wtih the uimott Bde
lity and dispatch.
Orders Ir.oin Philadelphia, or any
other .pant oi the Wnited States, will be ftrittly
attended to. LEONARD B«L£ECKER.
m&thtt
Lately Ptiblilhed-
SO L D BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Sscond^trebti
THE Hiltory of New-Hamplhire, from the
Discovery of the River Pifcataqua—by Je
remiah Belknap, J). D. 3 Vols. Price in Boar a*,
4 1-2 Dollars.
The Forrefter, an American fable, being a
Sequel to the .Hillary of John Bull the Cioihier.
Prce, 74, Cents.
A Dilcourfe, intended to coTOinemoraLe t.hc ;
Discovery ot America by Chxiftopbex Colum
bus; delivered at the request of the Hiflfcncai
Society in Maflachufetts, October 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Third Ceniury,
since that memorable event. To which are
added, four Diflertationi, connected with
fubje£i—By the fame author. Pivce, /jo Cents.
March xj, tutn&f^W
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Houses or Public
Offices,
Two brick 3 story Houles, -
HAVING 6 iocm6 in each, wuh fire places
beside garrets, situate on the fowth weiierly.fide
ot Dock street, between i»ear and Walnut
Greets. JBnquire ot
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
April 17. tutii&sif
Just Publiflied,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone house, No. South Second
Street,
Historical Colle^lions;
CONSISTING OF
STATE PAjPERS,
And other authentic Documents, intended as
materials for an History of the United States
of America.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, a. M.
In two large quarto volumes, price ten dol
lars in boards.
Subscribers will be furnilhed with the 2d.
volume 011 paying three dollars and« quarter
—having paid five dollars and a quarter on
receiying the^irft.
This fecood volume comprehends, among
otlisr iniereiliag pai ticulars, a complete co
py of the Records of the United Colonies of
N. England, in which the condmflofthe.com
mifnoners relpeftjng the general concer.vs of
the colonies—the neighbouring Indians— and
the Dutch at Manhattans (now New York) is
particularly detailed. *
I . Materials are collected fufficient to
farm a THIRD-VOLUME, The tune of
publishing will depend on the encouragement
to be derived from fubferiptions which will be
received by Thomas Dobfon, Philadelphia;
J ere. Libb-y, PortfmoiitU, New Hamplhirej
Thomas&Andiews, & Dav. Weft.Boftonj li
ata Thomas, Woicefter; Isaac Beers, New-
Haven; Timothy Green, New London; Jacob
II icliardfon, Newport; John Carter, Provi
dence; Hugh Gainc, Thomas Allen, and
Samuel Campbell, New York; Frcd e rick
Craig, Wilmington, Delaware; James Rice,
Baltimore; Mr. Lindfey, Norfolk; David
Henderfon, Fredericksburg; John Grammar
Pc-tertburg; Aiiguftine Davis,, Richmond; F
X. Martin, Newberrt,*!. c. John Bradley.
WiUnmgton; an* WtiJiaoi iVice Young.Chai
riafton.
The Public are cauiloaed to V
beware of counter/cited Five Dollar Bills if
tbe Bank of the United Statei, and T-uxxUf
Dollar Rills of tbe Bank of North America,
J'everal of iv/jicb nave appeared in ci/x motion
within a few days pajt; they art a£OOu ge
neral imitation of tbe genuineßills, tout juty
be diflingujhed by the fallowing
MARKS.
live Dollar Bills of the hank of tie
United States.
I ALL thai have appeared hav.e the fetter F.
fbr their Alphabetical Mark,
The Texture of" the Paper is thiflkor &aA
whiter and it takes the ink mote iVealy .cha*
the genuine pape-r.
The O. in the word Company is ifmAllnr
t.iau the M. arid other letters stf" th*t w.ar.^
lb that a line emended scam the taj> of the jGL,
to touch the top ui'thc M would ok tend can.
; liderably a. ove tlie range at' the whole mar,d.
. In the word United the letters *X£ iiiui .now
-1 erand cloier together than the reft ot the hill
The i and f irt the word promise Mi£ nolt
parallel, the yiuclining uiuch more torwacd
than the*. s
The engraving is badly execuied,the Anefce
of aLltUe Letters are ttronger and the.deviue
in then.aigin particulary lsinuchtcoai Jer .and
appears darker than in ihe true bills. Sotse
e the caunte ictts bear date in J -yn Wiieire
as the Bank was nut-in operation till D&ckui.
ber, and no five dollar bills weie liiued »u
that year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of Hie Rani &f Jltrti
Araerica*
ALL that have appeared have the ieitt&i
JL tor their alphabetical nta-Jc.
Tl>ey are pruned on a paper nearly jfimafcarr
to that ot* the couuterfeit Five Dollar <Mases
abtfve defen bed j engraving is beffcet e*e
ucted, and they <ippro*ch nearer to the
I pearance of the genuine bills.
| The fine ibled hues throng »the-\voTtuw
<>'# in the body ot the bill, are in ruimbci Jtfc j"-
j teenio the genuine b lis, and but twelve ie
the counterfeits.
The word Chmpany is much lijce tfee fame
word in the Five Dollar B lis as<lefcrihed su.
bovr, the.o being lets than the jn f and atUsj»
following.
Ther is no it - oke to the tin the word Navdk
wheieasin the genuine bills tlie jftroke is well
delined._
The letters tni in the word t©
left hand at the bo atom* do not come *d»wn tfc®
the line, but are lb cut as to givie a& ircegmlar
appearance to tbe word, the Tw and tilt $ jgo-
below them.
Thfc "lagn«jturc f, Nixon, has the appears*
ance ot being wi.uen with lamb-blacik
oiL, and d»ifers .troin other inks uCed in
printing ihe bins and the calhicr's iigaa&nGs,
It is fuppoled these forge lies wore cooiin-iu.uA
in fomeofthe Southern Sta.es., a* all the couu
rerfeus that have appeared., have come irt ;xi
ifaence., and two per Tons hate been a ppieben ti
ed in 3/irginia* ori fuipimon ot being t.ke aufcbaus
of litem.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND §OLL AX*
will be paid to any PeHon or P-erfaus who ibai.'l
discover and to convict on ti*e ievti.atl
I offenders of the following dcfcnpuon* or
of them, viz.
The person or pcrfons, who manufafiurod
the paper on which the Bills are printed.
The per son or per tons, who ongravod ;tsfae
plates.
, The printer or prn< ers, «»f tho bilk.
Every pcii u who has a&ed a€ » yf>sr:ircfcp«' iai
t any other to the counterlciiing and aittew
ing ihe taid bills.
AJarcii 2&, 17
Jfyril 22, 3-59,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the .United Stages have
in ciicu'atitn.
Tie denomination is of T\VENTTT
LARS,and the alphabetical mark «tfi« Jeit
ter B. »
Xliey may be tliftingu;&ed the
in- by the ioliowing i
The paper of tlie counterfeits is of a msre
tend r texture and glnfiev fcrface ths« mhe
genuine, aim tlie'e is no water mark in thc.au
, lie letter C. in the word Calhier, ijhe
. tru; bjis is flroi g y marjeed, wheteas .inthe
coanterleits,'he wliole letter is a fine hair
troke, evidently in an unfinifhea ftAie. Tl*
letter a in the Word demand, is hadiy
and the whole wo*d ill and there is iai
coißoia at tbe eud ol" it, as there is iu tl*
genuine bills.
1 f ,-' e r ,nar £ lna ' •device, is much dajser .is
k' i j' t ' lan geiuine bills owing tm
. > e lu.ide strokes beingcoar;er, much neaJjsr
togethej, and conlequeretly much more -nu
merous. This diflereuce ftrlkes ihe eye atfij#
•view.
r r J r h ® fame reward of ONE THQUSAi®
I i-LARS, wit] be paid for apprehendiirp,&
pr.'iecutlng to convidtion the feverai
defenbed Offenders in i*fpe& to this, as t»
the last defer,bed bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Piefidemt
ol the Bank L'mtt d Slates.
JOHN KJXON, Pi.fidentofihe
Bank of North America.
By oidei ot the Committees as the Set
Boards.
OC?" This Gazette Jhallbe enlarged, at M
receives encouragement—The Subfcriftti«
encreafes daily—Advtrtifing Favors tint
/elicited —Tbef: cmflitute an ejfential Item
in dimini/btftg the Debit Jide of tbe Account,
PHILADELPHIA : ~ '
Printed Br JOHN FE-NNO, No
! ; South Fourtk-Stcect. v
1