EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 86 of Vol. V.]
PRICE CU Jl Jl E N T. on,, ctDiis. as. ■
»Me»*««f*-*Do M .A»*»ooCcou cch-jO' l . Ditto j>r care 6 o
Sweet, best, m flalks,pr.box io 5
Ditto baskets, 1a bottles 12
PHILADELPHIA, Ma*ch 22, 1/794- Sperm-ceti pr. gall. 48
£ - ——. " —Train per barrel 10 51 J
* Dlls.Cts. Dlli. Qi. Whaie 25 33 j
Anchors pr.ib. 7 p 0 rter P r. catk, 533
AMum.Enatilh.pr.cwt. 433 London,pr do* afo
r\ ~~ Rnch or. lb. American ditto bot.incl. 1 8j
, ««h. P ,. bb i. .73 ,
-Pearl, l 3* j jg Burlington, per barrel, , 4
Arrack pr. gall. ■ 12<J Lower county
Brandy, common, „ ~ Carolina IO "
Coniac 45 < 0 Peas, Albany pr. bulhel ,
Bra«letto,pr.-to«. J pr. lb. 40
Bricks, pr. M. 4 333 P ' m " U ° 18
Bread, (hip, pr.cwt. 33 Raisins, bcft, pr. keg 9
Ditto, pilot _, r kcE 40 5 o Ditto pr. jar 4
Ditto, small water, P Ditto pr. box 333 j
Beer, American, in oot . ~4 Rice pr. cwt. 3 <
pr;doz. bottle, included, g't Rosin pr bJrlt ., 2 j
Ditto pr. barrel, JO Rum, Jamaica, pr. gallon 130 I
Boards Cedar pr. Mtc 1 Anligua 116
New England jg Windward 87 (<
—• Oak _ 0 24 Barbadoc. . 80 ,
— Mcrchaatablejnne 1067 Country, N. E. to
' Sap, f_ rtt 10 Salt petre, pr. cwt. J4 33 l
Mahogany, ?"^ 0 ; Saffafra. pr. ton 133 8 b
The.bovearethe!h.lloPP' dol ». q
for the yard price, ado Steel, German pr.lb. 9.
lar 33 cents per toou. Englilh.bliftered, pr. cwt. 10 la
Brimstone in rolls, pr.cwt. >oij American pr. ton !I 3 33
Beef, Bollon, per barrel jo Crowley's pr. faggot 1067
Couotry ditto » 67 Snake root pr. lb. >0 4?
Frcfli, per cwt. Soap, Brown per lb. • 6
Butter pr.lb. 18 White 17
♦ in kegs 48 - Castile 18
Candles, Sperm. pr.l»* Starch 2 A
Wax 18 Snuff pr. doz. bot, 4 $6
-Myrtle Wax 18 Spermaceti, refined, pr.lb. 40 —
Mould, tallow >4 Sailcloth,Englilh,No.i,pr. yard, 48
' Dipped .25 Boston, No. I. ditto 35 n .
Cheese, Engl.lh, pr. lb. ia : NOiII .
' — Country j-g 18 Sugar Lump, pr.lb 26 n,
Chocolate 67 Loaf, single refined 22 £
Cinnamon j 67 ——Ditto, double do. 33
Cloves l 0 11 Havannah, white 112 14 ■
Cocoa pr. cwt. 18 i Ditto, brown, 10 11
Coffee pr. lb. 33 Muscovado, pr. cwt. 9 12
Coal pr. butnel 2 Spirits Turpentine pr.gallon 27
W Copperas pr.cwt. 16 37 Salt, Allum pr. bushel 80
Cordage, American,p l 2 Liverpool 100
Cotton pr.lb. Cadiz 80
Currants 14 Lisbon 80
Duck, RuTia, pr.pi" it Shipbuild. W. O. frametp.ton, 60
rV .8 so Ditto Live Oak, *. d .
31 ? 5c Ditto red cedar, per foot 37 45 q
Feathers pr. !*>• tl 12 Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 333 367
Flax ditto q 0 Ditto 2 feet, 6 50 6
•Flaxfeed pr.buln. g Ditto 3 feet, dressed, 13 15
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel g Staves, Pipe pr. 1000 32
■ Common, 67 White Oak hogftiead, 20 33
—Bur middlings» belt a Red Oak do. 19 50
—Meal, Indian 2 gy Leogan 21 33
( ——-ditto Rye, 2 Barrel x 6 .
Ship-ftuff pri cw • #0 ——Heading 25 33
Tuftic • pr. ton, Skins, Otter, befl pr. piece 467
* Cin, Holland, pr. cafe, 133 Minks so 40 a ,
Do. pr. gall* lo ß# tl ® Fox, grey 40 80 fl
Glue, pr.cwt. ,0 33 p.tto red 1«o
Ginger, white race, p« Martins *4 1
Ditto, common Filhers 33 67
Ditto, ground pr. lb. Bears 3
C.infeng, _ 1 10 4 Racoon. «7 60
Gunpowder,cannon, pr. q.caiK, 5 Mu(k-rats 11 *0
Ditto, fine glaied 4 Braver, pr . lb. 67 IJ3 J
(Grain, Wheat pr-bulb iao 1 Deei.inhair »o 30
Rye 35 Tar,N.Jerrey, 24g al.p.bbl. 1 *
Oats g Carolina, 32 gall. 2 '
Indian coro , c Turpentine pi. bbl. 2 i.
B,rIC L» (helleipr. lb. 7 Tobacco, j. R.ver, bed toelb. 433
— Bettincn r inferior 333
Buckwheat, per bulh. 4° oUJ
Hemp, imported,pr.toß, »6o 140 Rappahannock 333 _
American, pr. lb. 5 " Coloured Maryland, 533 8
"Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 ~ Dark, 24°
Jlidcs, Taw pr.lbj 9 Long-leaf 2 40
JJops *3 Eastern-shore 2 E 23
Hoglheadh.ops, pr. M - Carolina,new * 7 3 k
Indigo, French per lb. 1 <>7 ? '
Lcarolina « 180 T «. Hyson pr. lb. » >*S m
Irons, fad pr. ton, '33 33 Hyson Ik.n, 9i 60
•Iron, castings pr. ewt. 3 4 Souchong, 90 93 bl
Bar pr.too, Congo, 5° 5° .
Pic «S Bohea, 40 36
Sheet 173 33 Ta "ow, refined, P«lb. 9 r
Nail rod. .oo 33 Tin pr. box, .333 .367
t l rwt 4 5 Verdigreafe pr. lb. oo
iT,i' hogi pr. lb. «* Vermillion, do. .33 .67
Lead in Ivgs pr- cwt. 533 567 Varnilh, pergallon 33 37-
I _i'„b,rT 7 Wax, Bees pr.lb. E5 2;
j wh ; te "o to 67 Whale-bone,long pr.lb. 13 3 C
——red 640 6 6 wine, Madeira,pr.pipe, 176 2fi6 C
fc*irt*r,foal, pr. H). *7 20 Lilbon 120 .26 •
k Lignum «iw pr.too, 7 Teneriffe.pr. gallon 67 I
Logwood 3° Fayal 52
Mace pr.lb. " Portpr.pipe ..3 33 rj
Maelwrel,beft pr.bbl. 9 Ditto in bottle.,pr.doi. 4 M
second quality 4 Claret 4 6 of
Madder, beftpr. lb. <6 »o Sherry pr.gall. 90 110 d
Marble,wrought,pr. foot, >33 867 Malaga 80 80
Mall spars ditto 33 COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Molafles p».g a 'l. 47 On London, at 30 day.,per £ .icofteil. 466 J
Mustard p«r.lb. ®' at 60 days 463 ? c( j
flour, mbottles, p.r.doz. 120 ~, , a t 90 oays 461 £
Nails, B<i. 10^. and pr.lb. 10 Amsterdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, 42 ?
% Kutmegspr.lb. 1 8 90 dayi, 40
Oil, Linf<etfiP r « 55 Government bills, drawn at 10 days
Olirc fight, it 42c per guilder.
of <;jt
AND
Saturday, March 22, 1794.
For FALMOUTH, (G. B.)
& NANCY,
Andrew G<win, Majier•
A good veflel, and will Sail on Monday
next—For Paflfage only, apply to
GEORGE MEADE.
d 3 t.
March 20.
(Ty* The Letter Bag will be taken from
the PoJl-Office y at 12 o'clock Sundy next.
For Amsterdam,
The new fact-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
MM ADRIAN A,
K. Fitzpatrick, Master.
BUILT of live oak arid cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight orpaflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
_ THOS. & JOHN KETLAKD.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794. dtf
For Bojion,
DOLPHIN,
William Nichols, Matter
WILL Sail in about eight days; for freight
or patfage apply to the Captain on board at
Hodge's Wharf, bet wen Arch and Race-
Streets, or
RUM FORD i<t ABIJAH DAWES.
,jd Mod. i4i 1794- diw.
For Bojlon,
George & Harriott,
Jofiab Bernard, Majler.
WILL fail the 25th inft. has good accommo
dations. For freight or paflage, apply to the
Captain on board 01 Mr. Sims'* wharf, or to
JOSEPH ANTHONY & SON.
March »7« di2 5
The American Brig
T R I T O N,
BURTHEN 700 barrels, with her tackle
and apparel as ihe came from sea, She is a
Haunch velTel, not two years old, and may be
put to sea Immediately. For terms apply
to 7
GARDINER y OLDEN,
Arch Street wharf,
Who have for fale>
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
a quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and a few
calks Timothy Seed —also
Pig and Bar Iron, and Iron cart
ings, in any form executed on the
fliorteft notice.
March 14.
For Sale or C^harter,
IS a flout good veflel, about two years old
burthen 232 tons, haj only made three voy-'
ages, and may be lent to Tea at a fniall ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-Greet wharf;
and the terms made known bv application to
WHARTON & LElllS.
dtf
March 2i
A REC&MPENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby ottered by the President and Direc
10rs ot the Bank of the United Slates, to any
person who lhall, on or bilorelthe full day of
May next, pioduceto them such a plan and de
ration oi a Banking House, as lhall be approved
of by them.—A plain, yet hand feme Iront ii
dc fired t The whole building is to be substantial
and commodious with as space around it.
as the ftze of the ground wnl admit.
The Lot on which thebuilding is to be ercft
ied, is fixated on the weft fide-ol Third flrcet,
between Chefiwt a«d Walnut ft,rets in Philadel
phia ; and its dewrnfions are 110 Jcct on Third
street, and aboui 100 feet weft ward.
THOMAS WILLING, P.cfidetit.
eop 3*
[Whole No. 544.]
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt.
from Amlterdam, and now landing
on Walriut-ftreet wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Ov.naburgSy
Holland t Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
GtafsWare> viz. Tumblers and Mugs, ia
rious Jizcs.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, are and fiat bars,
Hair Ribband, fyo. 4.
Dutch Great Coats 9
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, B'c. &fc.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KjSTXAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
Houldapplication be made within a few day t;
otherwise Jhe will take freight for Amjhr
dam.
March i, 1794.
Lately Published.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
The Hiiluty ol Horn the
D 1 (covi y ol thr R r , p,( lta qua—i,y ?f
---rcmiah Belknap, D. D. 3 Vol*. Price in Bgan'.s.
4 DJlljis.
The Forreftcr t an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the H.ftory of John Bull the C.oihjcr.
Pict, 75 Cents.
A D.fcourfe, intended to commemorate the
Difcovcry ol Artieiica by Cnnltophei Colum
bus; delivered ai the request of the H itor.cal
Society in Massachusetts, Q&ober 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Thud Century,
lin>.e that niemoiable event. To which arc
added r ur Difftrrationfc, couriered with the
i-b)ft— hy the fame author. Price, 50 Cenu.
March 17. lutl)&f 3 w
fcj* This Gazette Jhallbe enlarged, as it
receives encouragement—The Subscription
encreSjes daily——Advertjfing JTavors are
filiated■ —These conj itute an ejintiai Item
in 4imini)linx the Debit fide oj tbt Acroupt.
Philadelphia.
A General Meeting of the
Citizens,
This afternoon.
The fubferibers having been appointed
by their fellow-citizens, to prepare and
report an Instrument expreflive of the pub
lic thanks, for the ferviccs which were
rendered by the Committee of Health,
during- the calamity that lately affli&ed the
City and neighborhood of Philadelphia ;
and to suggest the measures proper to be
pursued, in order to carry the recom
mendation of that benevolent Committee
into effect, deem it their duty again to
call the attention of the citizens to a fub
jeft so interesting to the community upon
principles of gratitude, honor and policy.
At the meetings which have been hi
therto summoned, there have not attend
ed a fufficient number of Citizens U> ex
press the public sentiment; owing, it is
prolumcd, to a general acquirfcence in
the plan which has been proposed and
published : But as the fubferibers cannot
think themselves warranted in proceeding
further, upon this important occaiion,
without the express approbation of their
Fellow-Citizens—they request a General
Meeting to be held at the City-Hall, at
5 o'clock This jlflernoon.
It will be remembered, that unlefr the
citizens attend agreeably to the above
appointment, the molt meritorious servi
ces mult pass unacknowledged. A nume
rous class of Orphans will probably be in
volved in great distress, and even the ba
lance due to the Committee of Health
must remain unpaid.
THOMAS M'KEAN,
ALEXANDER J. DALLAS,
ANTHONY MORRIS,
JONATHAN B. SMITH,
JOHN SWANWICK,
CHARLES BIDDLE,
WILLIAM ROGERS.
"diot
d—tf
Pbiiai. March ft.eft European Intelligence.
I raßrJ from Paptrs rtanvidtj Csffjin
Tarru.
the Mini Her of War, by the Galeial
in Chief of the Army of Italy.
From the Quarter-General of
Oilioule. tnc 29th Frimaire,
id Year of the Republic,
one and iiid:viable.
Citizen Minister,
Toulon is rendered to the Republic,
and tlie success of our arms is complete.
The promontory of Aiguillctte, iirlt de
cided the fate of the infamous city. The
26th Frimaire, every means were united
for the redu£t!on of this polition. The
bad weather was contrary to our views till
near one in the morning : but nothing
could flop the ardor of men, free, com
batting againlt tyrants. —And notwith
flandinj the obstacles of the weather, our
brethren rulhed into the path of glory as
soon as the order was given. The repre
sentatives of the people, Robcrfpierre,
Sallicetti, Ricoud and Frenon were with
us—They Ihewed to their brethren an ex
ample of their courage. This paternal and
heroic body was certain to ensure victory.
The English redoubt, defended by a dou
ble battery—a retrenched camp—covert
way—Chevaux-de-fVife, &c. &c thir
teen pieces of cannon of 36, 24, &c.—s
mortars—and 2000 chosen troops—be
£des, defended by two fires, cross-ways,
of three o'ther redoubts, which contained
3000 men,
The impetuosity of tbe republicans and
the sudden taking of this terrible redoubt,
■which appeared from its heights an inac
cefiible volcano, so affrighted the enemy,
that they immediately abandoned the reft
of the promontory, and spread in Toulon
a panic, aggravated to the lall degree,
when they law the fleet riding out of the
roads.
The fame day, I continued different at
tacks on Malbolquet and other polls.—
Then Toulon began to lose every hope.
The red redoubts, such as Pommets, Pha-
Fon, and many others, were abandoned
the following night. At length Toulon
was evacuated ; but the enemy had the
JmeJft to cover their flight, and we cou'd
not follow them, being defended by the
ramparts, the gates of which being clo
sed, rendered impracticable our p irluit.
The fiie which appeared at the head of
the port, was the firtt indication of their
departure. W.; immediately approached
; and it was not till after
that we were afiured it was abandoned by
its vile inhabitants, and the infamous co
alition, who foolill.lv pretended to make
us submit to its revolting government ;
the precipitation, with which the general
t-.u-uation was made, nearly saved us the
whole of the property, and the greatest
part of the (hipping. Toulon now deli
vered by force, all which treason had
wrelled from us. W len the divilion of
the weft of our army prepared this grand
event, that of the eait, commanded by
General I.ape; p-, advanced with Citizen
Barras, RrprtTentative of the People to
wards the mountain of Pharon, and car
ried th Srft redoubt, all the others as
well as Fort Pharon, were evacuated by
the enemy, like those of the welt. We
have l<3ft 74 or 80 of our brethren, and
the number of wounded 250. It is not
pofTible to know the loss of the enemy,
but we may judge in adding the dead and
the priloners, we have caused them a loss
during this day, more than 12,000 tight
ingmen.
Thus, Citizen Minister, has terminated
the contre-revolution of ti.e South ; we
owe it to our brave Republicans compo
sing this army, who have all well deferv
td of their country, and of whom many
individuals ought to be diitinguilhed by
national gratitud^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
DUGOMIER.
J. B. Lacofle, and Baudot, Representatives
of the jh-odl'' : at the Armies of the Rhine
and the Moll-lie to the National Conven
tion.
Niderbroun, the ad Nivofe,
id Year of the Republic.
The defenders of the Republic, Citizen
CoUtag-jts. ha\e carried a signal victory o
ver the Auftriant. You know that the fat -
t /'.lit. - of kings, depending more on the force
of their CEirnon. than their own courage, en
trenched themleiveson the heights of Reilh
otien,' lenderlhoffen, Frcchevillers and Verth
before H. iuenai . and had torrard redoubts a
triple et. r, nc less formioahfe than those
of Jema; e. Ihe head of thejr eutrcnch
ments wa-- tttacked this morning with g»-cat
luccefs. The toldiers of the Kepublick took
16 pieces of cannon, 20 tilfToiis ancl 500
pnitmers, in the number of whom is found
me cciouel of the regiment,
all bedaubed v ith ribbands and crollVs; with
eight other o!Eee-s. The number of their
deiti » very coofiderabies We never think
ol taking prisoners, till we are tired wi.h
killir.g thin. Our loss is incoaliderable. It
would .ake up too mu h of your [.me to de
tail all the of valour of our brave
fokV s. '1 he generals wiil communicate to
you the particuUi s. This victory is the more
important, as it is tlic opening wluch con<
ducts us to .Landau. We have been all the
day in the lieid rf battle, in jhe midst of our
brethren in arms. We have ourfeives fired
off the cannon againlt .Ik enemy. This vic
tory lhall be followed with the greatelt ardor.
J. B. Lacoste
M. A. Baubot
Particulars concerning the re-taking of
Toulon, translated from the Journal de
laMontagneof the 3d Nivos, [Dec. 23.3
2d year of the Republic one and indi
visible.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Barrere ascends the tribuue and speaks
as follows : "Citizens, the arms of the Re
public have obtained,another triumph :
the combined efforts of our domestic in
triguers have been overcome. Crowned
robbers had meditated the deftrudlioti of
the maritime power of our nation. They
relied their hopes of success on the Ihame
ful sale of Toulon, the bribes scattered
with profulion at Brelt, and the getting
poHtfiion of Dunkirk. But the repre
sentatives of the people have preserved
Brest to the Republic, the Englilh have
fled like daltards from before Dunkirk,
and French bravery, fired with indignati
on at such complicated treachery, has made
a lall and fuccefsful effort against the ty
rants of Toulon. Thus the Englilh have
failed in their attempts against Dunkirk,
Saint Maloes, Granville, Cherbourg,
Brclt, Bourdeaux, Marfcilles, and Toulon.
Thus the Mediterranean is re-conqurcd :
that channel to the French trade is at tall
free. Already hatli the cannon* victori
ous agninll the fugi;ive Spauiards and the
d'ftroying Enjjlilh, resounded to the
Dardanelles and throughout all Italy.
Corsica will be wrelled from th? ambition
of the Paolifts, and the certainty of sup
plies will at length rellore to the South
that energy whicii it ought never tp have
loft. The most important advantage we
derive from the contjUelt of Toulon is that
it affords us abundant supplies of proviii-
After a fpeeeh repeatedly interrupted
by the applause ot the audience he reads
the following dispatches:
The Representatives of the people with
the army dire&ed against Tojlon,
OUioulei,
We announced to you that the iiTue of
the adtion of the 10th, [Nov. 30.] -was
only a prelude to greater fuccefles. The
event has juftified our predittion. Con
formably to our determination every mea
sure had been taken for driving out with
ignominy the ruffians who had baltly ob
tained poflijfion of the infamous Toulon,
and yesterday was the day appointed for
this glorious operation.
We did not lose a fin»le moihent ; e
ven before all the forces we expetted were
arrived, we began our attack. It was
chiefly dire&ed againftthe Englifli redoubt
which commanded the forts D'Eguillette
and Bolagnier . defended by upwards of
3000 men, 20 pieces of cannon, and se
veral mortars. The enemies had cxhautl
ed the resources of art to render it im
pregnable, and we are persuaded that few
forts are as (trongly fortified as that re
doubt. It could not however hold out a
gainll the ardor and courage of the brave
defenders of the country.
The forces of the division under the
command of Labrode and where General
Dtigomier obtained diftinguithed honor,
attacked the redoubt at 5 o'clock in the
morning, and by 6 the flag of the Re
public was seen flying in it. This success,
it is true, costs our country 200 men kil
led, and more than 500 wounded, but
the ei.emies loft their entire garrison, of
which 500 were taken prisoners, amonglt
whom arc eight officers and a Neapolitan
Prince.
Terrified at our success they abandoned
by night the forts of Maibofquet and Po
munch, the latter of which they blew up
in despair. They also evacuated .the red
and white redoubts, fort Pharon and its
redoubt, and took measures to get their
fleet out of the range of our guns and
our bombs with which they were inccf
fantly galled. The fleet is at present
without the great road. The enemies
have embarked many of the inhabitants
of Toulon and the greater part of their
forces; they have, however, left some
troops at fort la Malgue, and in the town
to toier their retreat. We are mailers of
La Croix des Sjgnaux, of fort l'A-rtique
an<f of Cape Bi.un, we hope to get pof
fefiion of la Malgue this night, <i,id to
morrow we (hall be in Toulon employed
in avfcnging the Republic.
Upw:.-rl, ot 400 oxen, some flieep and
hogs, are the only troopsfent bythe Pope,
with a few Friars. Forage, provilions
of all kinds, tents, all the camp furniture
that the enemy had in their forts and re
doubts, with upwards of a hundred pie
ces of large cannon, have fallen into our
hands.
P. S. Our colleague, Barras, who is in
the diviiion commanded by General La
poype, informs us, that all the heights of
the mountain of Pharon, have been taken
by storm, and that the fort and redoubt of
the fame name, have been evacuated, and
30 prifoneis taken, including an Englilh
Colonel.
The fame Representatives write on the
29th [Dec. 19.3 —The infamous city
presents at this moment the most dreadful
(pettacie. The feiocious enemies of li
berty set fire to the squadron before they
fled. The arsenal is in flames. The
town is almost deserted. We meet with
no human beings but galley Oaves who
have broken their chains in the overthrow
of the kiugdom of LouisXVl. All the
polls are now occupied by the troops of
the Republic. Two explosions Which
have taken place have put us on our guard
against ambulhes of that nature, and we
defer to march the army into the town
unifl all the powder magazines be llriitly
examined. We employ our attention by
day in concerting measures for avenpng
libmvaiidth l.ravc republicans who h.ive
died for their country. The enemy's
squadron :s not yet frte from inquietude;
Ttie winds aie contrary to its putting to
sea and it may be forced to return within
the range of our batteries ; the place v. as
bombarded yeltcrday from 12 o'clock at
noon till 10 at nigh:, which precipitated
the fight of the enemies and of the cri
minal inhabitants.
Two hundred Spartiih hdrfes were found
fad died and bridled, which could not be
embarked,
in diiorder
Two iluops cFpwded with'fu
gui es were funk by our bat teries. Should
the weathei force the squadron (o keep
the sea for any time, it mutt inevitably
fuffer the most dreadful distress, evet r ves
sel being crowded with women, and the
enemy having on board at lcalt jooo'fiek.
he 28th Frimaire,
The writer continues : never diti any
troops behaves with so much heroism. The
repreuntatives of the people marched at
the head of the colujr.v. Saliceui and Ro
berfpieire, the younger, with* iked ; .fords
pointed out the road ot vu ;o to the f.: it
troops of the R public, and . . . led 10
the aflault. The rain and tht ti dreai!;
ful weather could not for i men nt ab. c
.B.]
the ardor of Let not
the services which the reprefentiayi of
the people conflantiy render in their mil
lion be unregatded.
Barrere then piopofes tlie
cree, which is adopted.
The National Convention ■•fter h?,\!ng
heard the report of ihe oi pub
lic fafety, decrees :
I. The army of the Republic direJHd
against Toulon hatii deserved well of the
nation.
11 There O.all be celebrated in the whoje
extent of the Republic, on the dfcade next
ensuing, the publication of this decree in
each commune, a national fcaJE to folem
nizethis happy event. The National Con
vention fliall aifilh in a body at this civic
ceremony
111. The representatives of the people
at the vifl>»ioi:s army at Toulon, are
charged to colleA a particular account of
the feats of heroism which re fit ft a lustre
on the re-taking of that rebellious cay.
IV. They fi-.all Leilow rewards in the
name of the Republic, on the brave citi
zens of the a any, who have signalized
themselves by great a£tioiis.
V. The name of Toulon is fupprelTld;
that commune (hall henceforth be called
Port de la Montague.
_ VI. The bodies within that rebellious
city lhall be levelled with the gtound. No
thing fiiall be prcferved in it but the efta
blilliments neceflary for the service of war
and for (irovifjons and ammuni
tion.
VII. The news of the taking of THmi.
lon, Ibafl be Cent by expresses to the ar
mies arifl to the departments. To the dif
patcb of the news to the armies, (hall be
jfcined tile ftfflowing address, approved by
the Convention.
The armies of the Republic are once
more triumphant. "Toulon which had
basely fold itfelfto the English, has been
re-taken from them by an army which has
re-coucjuered that rebellious city at the
point of the bayonet, supplying by their
courage the infufficiency of number. Sol
diers of the Republic, such is the example
prefinted to you by your brothers in arms.
Will you fuffer the satellites of the des
pots any longer to fully the foil of equali
ty ? Is not victory the ccmftant reward of
your courage? Strike then, exterminate
those vile (laves who have always betaken
themselves to flight at the firft onfct of the
Sons of Liberty. Already the dastardly
E'nglifh, beaten under the walls of Dun
kirk, and driven from Toulon, are forever
overthrown. The Vendue thrice cut to
pieces in a fortnight, is hemmed in on all
fides. New advantages obtained on the
Rhine have partly repaired the losses faf
tained by former treachery, and leave on
ly Landau to be relieved. In the north,
Maubeuge is rescued from danger. Soldi
ers of the country, these fuccefles are the
fruit of your efforts for these three last
months. What can hinder you from ter
minating the campaign of liberty by the
utter detraction of the tyrants? Seize
that weapon which has already inspired
them witn such terror. l>rive them be
fore you with your bayonets, and force
them to go hide their /hame in the haunts
of slavery, and France delivered from her
enemies, will owe to you at once the hap
piness which (he will derive from the efta
blifliment of Liberty, and the glory of
having triumphed over all Europe.
The following intelligence is copied from
Wejl India papers received Ly the luji
arrivals.
BANKS OF THE RHINE,
AUGSBURG, Dec. 19.
Extra fl of a private. Utter.
" You may expcft to hear of the sur
render of Liandau in a few pods. A wo
man was taken a fe\V days since coming
from the town. In her (hoe was found a
letter from the Commandant, addieffed to
the National Convention, declaring that
the garrison must surrender, if great 'ef
forts were not taken to relieve it, as it
had only fifteen days provjfions.
" The allies expect the French will
make great eiiorts to raise the fjege ; but
the foimer have 120,000 men cncamped
to advaina and there is net a doubt
but they will tie able to hold .their, pofi«
tion. The French are routed In every
engagement in tbefe parts—l,4,ooc men
hav ng been cu: down within thete ten
day*;"
TOULON, Nov. 30, 31793.
Sir,
I have the honor to acquaint you, that.
the en?> y having opened a confidt.able
battery 011 the heights of Arenes, which
much annoyed one of our principal out
po.is (Malboufquet,) it became necefla
r < to attack it.- DilpofitionS for that pur
pose were made, and this morning, at 5
o'clock a corps of 400' B. itirti, 300 Sar
d.nians, 600 Neapolitans, 600 Spaniards,
and 400 French, under my command,
marched from the town. Notwithstand
ing the whole was obliged to cross the
New River by one bridge only, to di.
vide into 'four columns, to march acrcfs
olive grounds interfered by (lone walls,
and to ascend a very considerable height,
cut into vine terraces, yet we fucct°ded
in surprizing an.' forcing the .enemy, and
were inon in full pefllffion of the battery
and height, but 1 am lorry to lay, that
inftead'of forming upon and occupying
the long and narrow summit of the hill,
agreeable to orders and military prudence,
the impetuosity of the troops led them to
follow the enemy, to descend the heioht,
to alcend other distant heights, and at
lafl, in disorder, to encounter such superi
or advancing numbers, as obliged them
precipitately to retire, and to relinqmfli
the advantages we at firft gained.
It is with much concern, I must add,
that Lieutenant General O'Hara, who
had ai rived at the battery on our firft fuc
cels was involved in the confluence of
this sudden reverse, Wits wounded in the
•arm, and made prisoner. 1
We have to icgret, that so many gal.
Jlowing de-hat officcra, and men fell or. this occa
sion. -
Trom General O'l ira's abfonce, the
command devolves on me. I ihall endea
vor to difcbai ge it to the best of my abil
ity and health, till his majetty's farther
pleasure is fignified.
With great refpeft,
I have the honor to be, &e.
(Signed)
D. DUNDAS, Maj. Gen,
Rt. Hon. Henry Dundas, &c.
Vidory, Toulon Road, Nov. 30.
STR,
The enemy having erected and open
ed a battery against the post of Malbouf
quet, from which (helli would reach the
town and arsenal, Governor O'Hara fig
nificd to me yelterday, his intention to
attempt to destroy it, and bring off the
guns j and tequefted some seamen to be
sent to a post he proposed to withdraw the
Britilh soldiers from. The Governor
proposed not to go out himfelf, but un
fortunately, did not keep his word. A
molt clear diftinft, and regular plan was
fettled, and the commanding officer of
the troops of each nation had a copy of
it. The troops moved at four o'clock
this morning, and surprised the redoubt
moll completely. Never was a ferviee
performed with more regularity and ex
a&nefs; but the .ardour and impetaofity
of the troops (iflftead of forming on the
height where the battery was raised, as
they were particularly ordered to do,)
led them to rush after the enemy, near a
mile on the other fide, in a very featured
and irregular manner. The consequence
of which was, the enemy collected 111
very great force; and, in the retreat of
our troops, they fuffered extremely. I
herewith transmit an account of the lofj
of the British in killed, wounded and
miffing : But Major-General Dundas will
give yon more particulars. The Gover
nor mod unfortunately was wounded and
taken prisoner. A surgeon was sent to
him immediately (by permission of Gen.
du Gomrtiier, Commander in Chief of
the Eastern Army at the siege of Tou
lon,) who reports, that the Governor's
wound is a flefh one only in the arm ; but
being faint by the loss of blood, he was
obliged to fit down under a wall, and there
nude prisoner of.
X have the honor to be, See.
Rt. Hon. Henry Dundas, &c.
AMERICA.
NASSAU, Dec. 27,
In theft islands we kno<vfi little of a war
exijling, except from report of what is doing
tlfewbere-, or from fcfoe low price of our flu pic
article of produce, And the enhanced price of
the necessaries of life.
The privateeri.ig buftnefs, which created
such an ast 'tve scene here during tlx Summery
is now nearly at a fland ; and with the sur
render of the French Islands, which we cannot
regard as a very diflant event > mufl entirely
xeafe 9
January 7.
The ship Eliza, Hartley, from Liverpool
ard St. Vincent, for the Caicos, was loft on
Philips's Reef, off the Ealt Caicos, 2d Dec.
at 10 P. M. owing to the rapidity of a cur
rent setting to the weft ward. At the time the
ship struck, (he had ill fail set, standing off
shore with a lip.ht breeze from E. While
aground on iiie reef, nine miles from the
land, on the 3d of December, with a signal
of distress flying, at noon, a sloop, which
proved to be the Bermudian, Bartlett, a pri
vateer of twelve guns, belonging to Bermu
da, came to them ; when, instead of giving
relief to people in such a diftrefled situation,
the crews ot the privateer' boats, by dire<ftion
.of their officers, plundered the cargo of the
Eliza. One of them, named Ingram, who
was called Captain, was particularly active
in this lhameful business. Captain Hartley,
at the time the privateer's boats boarded the
Eliza, was making for the ihore in his long
beat, with part of the cargo ; and had, pre
vious to his leaving the ship, ordered the mate
to request the afliftance of the sloop, then
coming down to the ship. At night the mate,
with all the crew left on board, came ashore
to Captain Hartley, informed him of the
above particulars, and also told him that
while the. private r's men were plundering
the ship, they put all the officers in confine
ment. The mate, James Steel, and two sea
men, John Ramsay and John Mather, have
fincc died at Turk's Islands.
Affidavits frcm several of the officers and
feawen of the Eliza, refpeiting the brutal be
haviour of the Bermudian's people, are ob
tained ; and the neceflary steps are now tak
ing for bringing the perpetrators of such
barbarity to punirtunciu.
PHILADELPHIA,
Extra# of a letter from a* gentleman now
inNew"Vork, belonging to Salem, to his
son ift th;s city, dated th« aoth inft.
" Bince writing you last, I have received
a letter from my partner Mr. H. of Salem,
of the ijth inft. g.ving an account of the ar
rival there, of our schooner A&ive, from a
fortunate voyage ; the A<slive was carried
into New Providence, which place (he left
the aift ult.and informs that but one Ameri
can veflel was th n there, which was the O
livc Branch from New York, and she was to
leave there the next day; that Capt. Hodges
of the A&ive, was generously supplied there
with frefh beei and fplrits, gratis, and all port
charges paid, thus feme are treated in some
Britilh ports, while in others they are plun
dered, i^c.
At a general meeting of the Citizens of the
city aiiJ county of Philadelphia, held at
the State House, last Tuesday, the follow
ing rcfolutions were adopted:
so. .'u',
That a c. mfnittee conliiting of five citi
zens, b< appointed to prepare a plan for soli
citing dona'ions from all benevoknt and pa
triotic freemen, for th? purposes of eftabliihr
& fund, to relieve and redeem our unfor
tunate few citizens, wlio,failing cn board
of veftels belonging to the port of Philadel
phia have been c >tured and enslaved by the
Algerines or any other piratical lUte.
Rejoined.
That the *above committee fliall report
th 1 r plan to a general meeting of the cit.zjlis,
to be iiolden 0.1 the 33d day of March inft.
Rufolved,
That the following named persons flinll be
the committee for carrying ir.to effect the
foregoing reiolutions, viz. John Swanwick,
Stephen Girard, Israel Israel, Jacob Morgan,
and Alexander James Dallas.
The above pamed Committee being ready to
report,
GIVE NOTICE,
And particularly request the attendance of
the citizens of the ciiy and county of Phila
delphia, at the State House, THIS DAY",
the 2zd inft. at 5 o'clock in the afternoon.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, March 21
Yefterdayat a m eting o C:::zfn3, a
Committee was appoin edto prep-vet pe
ti ion to the Legiilature of the Hate, re
fuelling them to grant a sum oi money,
in addition to the sum appropriated bv
Congress, for the purpble of fortifying
the port of Ncw-Yoik.
HOOD.
Chairman, Genera! James Alner.
The following gentlemen compose the
Edward
John Broome,
Richard Harrifon,
R. R. Living]ion,
J amij Aluer.
By captain Orne of the {hip Favorite,
who has arrived at this place from Bour
deaux, which place he left Jan. yti., we are
informed, that when he failed the embargo
oil American {hipping was not taken off,
nor was there any profpvet of it—The
number of American veffe!s detained
there, he beleives to be about I 25. The
reason for this embargo was altogether a
mystery. The embargo extends to the
Swedilh and Danish veflels as <Vcll as to
the Americans. The cargoes of a'.l ves
sels are taken by French officers, valjed,
and paid for; but they are seldom valued
at more than half the firft colt.
A Danish vefTel had been dispatched
from that kingdom, with provisions for
the Danish crews which were fuffering in
that port, but ihc had no sooner arrived,
than her cargo was seized, except a small
allowance for the fevcral crews. Allig
nats are the principal medium of buiinefa
in France, and it is death to make any
difference between paper and specie.
Brig Penelope, George Bray, i'rom New-
York, was met in the river on the sth Janua
ry. 1794. by Capt. Orne, bound to Bour
deaux.
The Maflacuhufetts Captain Wlii;e, failed
from the river on the ;th Jan. f.r New-
York, on the 14th was captured by the lhii)
James Capt. Thomas Wilks, a letter of
marque of 16 guns belonging to Liverpool,
bound to Jamaica, fufpeiftin/ the cargo was
French property, and intended to carry the
Mafiachufetis to that I (land.
On the 59th of Jan. the James fell in with
the Anna Boletta, a Danilh brig from Leg
horn bound to New-York, and Capt Jame-
Orne of Portsmouth N. H. who was a paflln
ger on board the Maflachufetts, took paflag,
on board her for New-York, and arrived on
the 17th of March. The I4lh of February
while on board the Anna Boletta, in lat. 14 00.
lat. 35 • W. fell in with tke lloop Betsey,
MARCH 22.
Committee.
c*pt. Enoch Coffin, belonging to C" ati-flon,
S. C. 24 days from Cadiz, boyiid to Balti-
informed that twelve fa.il of Ame
ricans had been taken by the Algerines, whic/i
they .hat: certain accounts of in Cadiz,
Cbflin failed in company with 20 fail qS other
American veflels, under convoy of rt\»o Spa
nifii fliips of war, the Spaniards giving them
110 signals neiiher informing them the day
they were to fdil, f< on ran away from them
and left them to ihift for themselves. —On
the 22d of Feb. iunfce the schooner Patty, of
Norwich, aR well, from C-diz, bound to
Norwich. Tfce Richmond of Richmond,Capt.
Lee ; and Nymph, Captain Weft of Phila
delphia, by some means obtained permiflion
aud faded about the 20th of December—
(he -Aurora, Capt. Stewart of Pordmouth,
N. H. failed, loaded with brandy for New-
about the 21ft of December.
Any American vessel with proviflons, the
French nation will take at about half the firft
cost, and keep us in the port to llarve after.
Extra&of a letter from Philadelphia, dated
March 9,
"We bad a town meeting lad night,
and we are to support Congress with our
lives and fortunes—an embargo was talked
of, and every body fears it—from the con
vention 1 have had with several mem
bers of Congress, they imagine they shall
fit the grcateft part of the summer, at
least a considerable time longer than that
talked of, but they did not seem to inti
mate an embargo likely to be laid, and
said if it was, it would not be coaftways."
For the Gazette of the United Statu,
A CARD,
Addrtjfed to Mr. S .
A CITIZEN presents his compliments
to Mr. S——k, and begs leave to alk him
how many days have pafled over, since he
sent some of his veflels with cargoes to the
ports of that vindictive, ambitious, arbitra~
.7, fauage, injidious, clandejtine, unjuj,l, in
humane. arrogant, piratical, violent, info,
knt, mean, contemptuous, nation Great Bri
tain, & whether he has not received, & dees
nor expect these fame veflels heme again
with cargoes—T he Citizen also begs leave to
afit how many veflels he has sent to France
lardy, and if any, whether he does not ex
pect them to be embargoed, or freighted back
with aflignats, if his Captain (houid not be
in a capacity to bribe Rational Commiflion
ers to let him bring off produce ?
How dare he trust his veflels 'Or cargoes to
the ports of that iif t named bad nation, who
wiil fcize them and confifcate them ?
I declare I will tell of him, if he does not
use more genteel language in future.
21/?. March.
Awi iter'ln the Hampshire Gazette con
cludes some observations on the Com
mercial Resolutions, which have so long
been the topic of conversation, with the
foHewing remarks and queries
1 rejoice to find that the New-England
Members have learnedly combated those
a:iti commercial and anti-agricultural re
-1 'utions—the pro'b'ind wisdom and un
(haken pitriotifm which they have exhibit-
Ed mult be as pleating to their friends as
t-rribleto their enemies. And rtiav we
never fee a Ward, a S a Foster
or a I.yman, out immediate R prefenta
tlves, eith -r so ignorant, M-eak or kicked
as to adopt meafnres diametrically
iite to the real interest of their laborious
constituents.
Let them be careful not to interrupt
our preient prosperity at this irritating
crifre, by chimeric p ojefts—Put may
they meiit our future friendihip and fup
pert, by their united endeavors to feeure
to us the .bleflinrs we now enjov under
our own flourifhing vi: s aiid fig-trees.
Farmers—ire v ir \kts under the ge
neral governine,.t easy ! Is there a ready
market and hi; h , nee for whatever your
Farms will p-o,;ucff ? Do you wi(ha con
tinuation of tac e benehts, and deprecate
their interruption ?
Laborers—ls there not an increasing
call on you for your labor ? Need you
spend one idle hour for want of employ ?
And are you not paid more, and better
than formerly ?
Mec'ianicks—Has not the price of your
Labour greitly risen, and your ingenuity
infinitely better rewarded than ever it was
before ?
Shopkeepers—Did you ever experience
a readier sale of goods and prompter pay
than at tin's foment ?
If these queitioni are answered in the
affirmative there can be no doubt on your
m ds, but that it is for the general bene
fit o. the community to prefer the prof
p-' ity we now enjoy to the adoption of a
string of refutations that have not Hood
t)>C ted of of novelty!
A Hampshire Farmer.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIr A L S.
Ship Aurora, Stewart,
Brig Flora, Carson,
John, Cooper,
Sloop Molly,
Curracoa, 20
Smith, Bermuda, 11
IMPORTED
In the Brig George and Harriott, from
Havre de Grace,
and for sale by
Louis OJmont,
A PERFECT
Aflbrtment of Hanging P&pcr"
high co'oured and pi. in. '
Stocking,, high drelf.d and put
up English f»lhion.
I he handsomest artificial Flowers and Fea
thers.
Some Looking Glass Plaies to, be fold by the
cafe.
A few hampers of Champaignc wine, fix
years oid.
ALSO,
An elegant parcel of
Bear skin Muifs,
And very beiutiful Silk Cloaks, which on
iccouiitof thtfeafon will be fold low. and at
a ldng credit.
LIKEWISE
42 pipes Madeira wine,
aad a few casks of Claret.
A Quantity tf
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
He qvill have for sale,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black I .aces,
Leghorn hats, fens and cambricks, claret in
cales, a quantity of window glais well fort
• d of all size , and a few pair of remarkable
Looking Glasses framed, all arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
March 22. H r f
NEW THEATRE,
THIS EVENING,
March 22,
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, called
The Jealous Wife.
Mr. Oakley M r . Fcnnell
Major Oakley, Mr. Whitlock
S h^ rleS ' Mr. Moreton
_ , Mr. WigneU
Sir Harry Beagle, Mr. Chalmers
Lord Trinket, Mr. Finch
Captain O-Cutter, Mr. Bate.
Wdham, Mr. Barley jun.
J° hn ' Mr. Warrell
J 0 ™' . , , , Mr. Francis
Lauy /reelore e fer v't. Master. Warrell
Mrs. Oakley, Mrs. Whitiock
Lady Freelove, Mrs. Morris
Mrs. Francis
I -J Mrs *
Chambermaid, Miss. WUlema
Tbefcenes dejigned and executed by Mr.
Milbourne.
End of the Opera, a charadteriftic
Ptiniomimical DANCE, called
C 1 he Sailor s Landlady,
OR,
Jack in Distress.
J? C j' u Mr. Francis
Ned Hlulyard (-with a new Jon\g) Mr. Dar.
. lev, jun.
Sailors, MefFrs. Warreli, Bliffet,
Warreli. jun. Lej, Baf n
and Dc Moulin,
Lafles» Mrs. Cleveland, Mrs.
Batts, Miss. Rowfon, &
Mils. Willems.
Landlady, Mrs. Rowfon
Orange Girl, Mrs. De Maraue
To conclude with a double HORNPIPE
by Mr. Francis and Mrs. De Marque,
To which will be added,
7he Musical Entertainment, calk Ay
Sailors,
LafTes,
The Virgin Unmask'd.
Goodwill, Mr. WarreU
Coupee, Mr. Francis
(Quaver, Mr. Marshall
Bl' fter > . Mr. Bate.
Thomas, Mr. Grteu
M ist. I.ucy, Mrs. Mlrihali
INFORMATION
Is Requested
By the Ediior, of a Mr. Willi-m Kilion, a
Brick Layer, who went trom New-England,
and at Philadelphia ift Aujull, 1793,
since which fime nurhing has Lei-n heard of
him—'Great relief will be afforded to his aged
parents and friends, by any intell gence con
cerning him—as Uicy are tearful that he has
fallen in the late general calamity.
March 32.
Davs.
Bourdeaux, 7 6
Havanna,FOR SALE,
[F.W CAREY, No. 118.
Market-Street,
n Essay on Slavery:
Detuned 10 exhibit in a new point of view,
its cffe&i 00 inlujlry. and the peace ef
fdciety. Some la£ts and calculations aic offered
10 prove the labor ofjtecmeu to be much more
ftodißive than that ot Jtares ; tkat countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in propoition as the
laboring people enjoy ihe fruits ol their own
labor ; and hence the n.ceffaiv conclulion, that
slavery is impoijic n well as 1
Prick 25 Cenu.
February 15.
lo be Sold at Public Venauc,
On Friday the i ithday of April next,
at the Konfe of Join Thorn/a*) in Perth-
Arab oy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
Lot contains eleven acres, on which is
an otchard of grafted apple tree*, a well of
excellent water, a large (lone c stern, and a verv
commod'oos stable and eoach-houfe, and a great
quantity of the best building stones in the walls
of the house, which was foimrrlv boilt for the
residence of the Governors of New-Jersey. The
situation of this Lot is so well known for its
bealthinefs and beautiful profpeft of the Rari'on
river to the weft of the bav, and Sandy-Hook to
the east, that a further defenption is uniuccffary.
The conditions of file will be, one third ot the
purchase money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, wncn a (rood and fufficient Deed will
be given to the puithafrr, by Walter Ru
therfurd, Esq. PreftHent of the Board of
Proprietors of the Eastern Division of New-
Jersey, ana the remaining two thirds fatisfa&o
rily secured in equal annual pavments.
By order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Rrgifter.
Perth'Amkoy, February 5, 1794. aaw2m
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, WdUfinet, New-Yo*k.
THE Subfcribcr intending ta confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b gs leave to of
ter bis fervicesto his triends and others, in the
line o( a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their btifwefs, may depend
upon having it tranfaded with the uimoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
Other part of the United State*, will br ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&thtf
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at bis Store, No. 25, Dock'
Street
A few Bales of Raffia Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchong TVa, Hyson aud
Tonkav, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cafjes,
A Quantity ot Biimuone,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Ffb. «c.
Henry Rape State of Maryland.
v. ) High Court of Chancery,
Benjamin Gaitber > March sth. 1794-
ard \
Basil Gaitber
The Complainant states
in his bill that the defendants Benjamin Gai
ther and Basil Gaither were seized in fee a?
tenants in common of a tract of land in Fre
dei ick County, called Hammond's Strife ; —
that being so seised, Basil executed a power
of attorney to Benjamin authorizing h:m t(
fell his, the said Basil's intcreft in the fa d
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin fold
the laid land to a certain William Gather for
the confederation of fix hundred pounds whicl
hath been since pa'd, that the said William
hath assigned to the Complainant Henry Rape
the bond execoted by the said Benjamin foi
the conveyance of toe fa d land : The Com
plainant now further dates (and sb appears
to the Chancellor) that the defendants are
non-residents of the itate of Maryland, and
herefore out of the reach of the process of
this court.
It is therefore adjudged and ordered, that
the Complainant procure a copy of this or
der to be inserted in the newspaper of Angel]
and Sullivan, and in the United States Gazette
at least three weeks successively, before the
twentieth day of May next ; to the intent
thac the Defendants and all others, who nay
conceive therafelves interested in tbe premis
es, may have notice to appear in this court,
on or before the third Tuesday in September
next, to Ihew caule wherefore a decree should
not pass for veftmg in the Complainant 4 com
piete legal title to the land aforefaid.
Tert,
EL HARVEY HOWARD,
Cur. Con.
mt'n&rs3w
Mfrt 18.
W.itKc.As an alios tUDpoena nas iflTucd
oat of the Supreme Court of this Com
mon wealth, at the suit of Margaret Evans,
upon a petition preferred bv the said Marga
ret, praying tor a Divorce from the bonds of
Matrimony, entered into with Robert Evans.
This is to give notice to the said Robert, that
he be and appear at the said Supreme Court, to
be held at the City of Philadelphia on Monday
thefeventh day of April next, at the State-House
in the Lid City, to answer the matters ailedged
in the said petition.
W«. CHAPMAN,
SherJF of Buck> County.
Mireh j, 1794.
To Robert £mu.
Writing
SIGN-BOARDS, 'J AP A NX* D
PLATES, tjc.
Donfc in the raoft elegant manner, and after
the firft mailers ; likevifc,
Yire Buckets
Painted and finiiJitd at the fhortcfl notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Noma's Court, back of '■»< New Library,
between Cheinut ami Wakiut,
Fourth xnd Firth ftrcets.
Idtf
March 4.
icheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, dcduai ° IJ per Cent, from
the Prizei—this Lottery confijls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there art
1 4,539 Prizes and 2 3,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Dne&orsof ih- Society for eftablilbing
Ufeful Manma&urcs, having refoivcd 10
crcd LOTTERIES for laifing One Hundred
Thousand Doll a as, agreeably to an A& of
the Legifl-ture of the State of New-Jeifey, hive
appointed the following persons to fupei intend
and direct the drawing oi the fame, via. Nicho
las Low, Rufus Herman Le Roy, James
Wat (bo, Richard Hanifcn, Atnjah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city oi New-York—
Thomas Willing, Joieph Bali, Matthew M'Con*
nel and Andrew day aid, ot the city of Phila
delphia—His Excel.anfey Richard Howell, Esq.
Elias Boudinot, Geocial Li as Dayton, Jam s
Parkei, John Bavaid, D<>€kot Lewis DOn jm,
Samuel W. Stockton, jolhua M. Wallace, J oieph
Bloomfield, and Eiithj Boudmot, of N-w-Jcr
fey, who offer the ioliowmg St bc-rae cf a Lot
tery, and pledge thtiuiclves to the public, that
they will take every jffarjncc and piecau.ioa in
their power to have the Monies a.d by the
Managets, irom time to time, as received, into
the Banks at New-Yoik and Philadelphia, to
remain for thepurpoieof paying Pne s, wnich
(hall be immediately diftharged by a check
npon one of thr B
SCHEME:
t Piizeof 20,000 Dol.au is 20,000
s
5
10
so
IGO
3°o
1000
2000
3°°°
Bioo
14,539 Prites. *62,000
23.461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Laftdrawn number, 2,000
Tickets at 7 Dollars each » 266.000
38,000
The drawing will commence, under the in
fpe&iou of a Committee ol the Superintendents,
as soon as the Tickets arc fold,ot which timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendants have appointed John N.
Curaming, of Newark, J«cob R. Hardenbrrg,
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Trenton, as immediate Minager* thereof, who
have given ample security for discharging the
trust reposed in tbem.
3taw6w
$3" In order to fecurethe pon&ual payment
of the Prices, the Superintendants of the Lottery
have dire&ed thai the Managers (hall each enter
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four fufficient
fecuritirs, to perform the:r mftiudions, the fub
ftanceof which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
(hall receive the sum of Three Hundrrd Dollars,
he (hall immdiately place the fame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
cicdit ol the Governor of the Society, and such
ot the Superintendants as live in the city whtre
the monies are placed, to remain thrre until the
Lottery is drawn, foi the payment of the Prize?.
11. The Managers to take fiifficieni lecui ty
for any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
refponnble for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid ioto the Bank, ab
ft'aQs of which (hall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle
men, information will be given where tickets
may be had.
February 24.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Geldjmitbs Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOMD-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
Sin elegant AJTortment of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY fcfJtm CUTLERY,
Which they will difpole of on the most rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, done as usual.
Decembei
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —alio a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded bymany in the vicinity
of the city, in lize or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23.
NOt K I S- C 0 U R T,
Back of the New I..jfvy, between Chefout
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friend* and
the public in general, that he continues
car-ying on the hulincfs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL fYTES,
for doorsor \»indow>(huttcrs,dont in the nioft
elegant iaanner, and with difparch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duiy attended to.
Decent:*r 30, dtt
10,000
10,000
5,000
2,000
10,000
10,000
1,000
500
100
10,000
i»,ooo
10,000
5°
20
>5
12
IO
15,000
20,000
30,000
36,000
81,000
tuAftf.
mw&ftf
m<Sctb—tf
and Walm :-Streets.
Excellent CLARET,
In hog !'• cads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
* L S O,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA
In p : -pes, hogftieads and quarter ca&s,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. m. South troni •ttreet
Jan. 2, 1794
JUST PUBLISHED,
AMD FOI SALE BY
M.Carey,No. i lS,Higb-ftreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Hating* and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, tbc heft sense in the 'world.
THIS little book is written in a fttle altogether
novel, anc is adapted to all capacities, at
well as to all classes cl people, merchant, me
chanics and farmert. Such a reputation has this
wo>k icquiredi that il has parted thro three im
prrOporu in the eastern states, and many hooie
hoideis deem it so ufetul as to parchafe a copy
for every adult in theii families. ■Pai c e as.
February (. dti
J lift Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Peterlburg in Russia,
And now landing at South-street f.Turf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN'S DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOB. SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-street.
March 4,1794-
War Department.
January 3c lb 1794.
IVFORMATION ts hetet-y given to ail the
military invalids of the United States,that the
sums to which they are entitled lor fix months
of their annual penGon, from tbc fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on <ne sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the fa id day by the Ommilfio:»ers of the Loam
within the Hates refpe&ively, under the usual re-
gulations.
Applications of executors and adminiflrators
mull be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpc&ive offices, and also of thetiine the
invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of ihe Prefid'nt
of the United"State*(
H. KNOX,
Sectetary oj War.
The printers in the rcfpettive staTs are
requested to publish the above in iheirncwfpa
pers for the space of two months.
January 30.
STATE OF SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the Houje of Reprefentail ves,
De.ce.mbek 21(1,1793.
WHEREAS the CoimnifHoners of public
Accounts, have reported, that «hey can
not proceed to the invefttgation of the Treafary
Accounts* refpr&ing fpacial Indents, without
knowing the outftandtng amount thereof in cii
culation Therefore,
Refohed, That all holders of special Indents
be dtre&ed, and required, on or beiore the firfl
day of November next, to deliver the special In
dents in their poffefßon to one or other of the
Commissioners of the Treasury, who are to wive
receipts for the fame, and to report to tbeCon
miflioncra on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
them refpe&ively received, and also to the Le
gtflature, at their meeting in November next,
and that all special Indent* not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the fiifl day
of November next, (hall be, and the fame are
heieby barred.
Refoived, That public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And that the Delegates of thw
State in the Congress of the United States, be re
quested to cause this rctolution to be pubiiChed
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for the ex peaces attending such publica
tion.
Orderti> That the resolution be fe*t to the
Senate for their concurrence.
By order of the Houfr*
JOHN SAN FORD C. H. R.
In the SENJTE,
December lift, 1793.
Refolotd, That this House do concur with the
Houle of Representatives in the foregoing ref
lations.
Ordered, That the resolutions be sent to the
Hoefe of Reprefentarivcs.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clei*.
ewtNov,
From London, Dublin, and Glasgow,
And now tor sale,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-jtral,
A La pe a (i Vaiuabie
COLLECTION »F BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Regilterfor 1792
European Magazine tor the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of tke Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Mancbefter Jocietjr, 3 v«»is.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
bifnev's lite «f Dr. Jortin
Kiugville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Gtay Joli
Meraty,a collection of essays
Varieof Prussia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
Ruflell's ancient and modem Europ*
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extra&s, superbly gilt
Elegant extTa&s of natural history
Saognier and Britfbn's voyage
Rocbon's voyage to Madagascar
Tcuvnfend's travels in Spain
Taffo's Jerulalem delivered
Sjiiellie's tranflatior of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffbn abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, m 3 vols.
Curiefities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen NSary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's hiftoTy of Hindoftau
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's dtfeription of Kentucky
Pi efent state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Br. Johnson
Meeker on executive power
KilTes of Securdus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravingi
Dawnman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington ort materialism and imma'erialifnt
Berchold's advice to patriotic traveller!
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer.
Chanden's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitvt
Godwin on po! tical jullice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's lketches of the history of fflaa
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardefcer's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral fectiraeats
Stackboufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. & Illd.
Winders of nature and art, 6 vok.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallif on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark > Ruffia,P«land,&Ci
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of m'nl
wifery
Manning's pra£ti<« ess phyTic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemillry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qiiincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the vifrera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's cfeemiftry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's d flirtations
London practice of physic
Bell's forgery
Chaptal's chemistry. j
diw }ta\* tf
dam
For Sale by the Subscribers,
MUSCOVADO Sugar in hhds.&fcbsL
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry ncSj of luperior quality yin pipe#
and quarter caiks.
3paniih Indigo.
Boston Beef, in barrels.
And a fmal! invoice of Muslins.
NALBRO' & JOHN FRAZIER,
No. 164, South Front-street.
March 8. fmw4w
PHILADELPHIA :
Printsd by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourtk&neet.
Ju/t Apoi/ii(