• \
EVENING AD V E R T I S E R.
—. — —— i — ■ —. _
[No. 157 of Vol. V.] Thursday, May 22, 1794. [Whole No. 555.]
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY and FRENCH
BURR stones,
FOR SALE BV
Gurney and Smith.
May 14- d
JAMAICA RUM,
LANDING at Hamilton's wharf, above
the Dfswbnrfjrfi) out ot t - (hip Bacc.-.us
Cept. Vjssema*. fiom Jamaica,
FOR SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT.
Mav 16. d
REMAINING
Of THE
Ship India's Cargo,
FROM
BENGAL.
A small afTortment of
BALE GOODS,
250 bags COTTON of good quality, which
would probably make an excellent remit
tance to Em; ope, and a
Quantity of PEPPER
For Salt by
Mordecai Lewis,
Wb+ has also to dispose of
Barcelona Hand'fs. in boxes,
Holland Gin in cases,
Souchong, Hyson, and Tonkay Tea,
A Quantity of Briraftone, &c.
May 10 d3w
FOR SALE,
BY MATHIiW CAREY, No. iiß,
Maiket-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery,
Designed to exhibit in a new poin: ot view
its CHests on morals, indujlry, and the peace 0)
society. Some ta6U and calculations are offered
to prove the labor offreemen 10 be much moie
productive than that ot slaves ; that countrits are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring ptople enjoy the fruits ot their own I
labor ; and the ncceffity eonciufion, that
slavery is imfwhUc as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February 15.
Ccngrefs of the United States,
In Smalf, Tuesday May 13th, 1794.
ORDERED, that Rufuc Putnam, Mai.a
fah Cutler, Robert Oliver and Griffin
Green, do, upon :he third Monday of Decem
ber next, Ihevr cause 10 the Senate, why so
much oi' . i grants ot land to them the (aid
Rul'us Putnam, ManaiTata Cutler, Robert
Oliver and Grilfin Green, pursuant to an Ast
entitled "An ast authorizing the grant and
conveyance of certain lands to the Ohio Com
pany of aflociates," not be declared
void, as may interfere with and be fufficient
to fatisty (he claims of the French fettlcrs
at Gallinpolii.
Ordered, that the delivery of a copy of
tie above urder to Rufus Putnam, Manafiah
Cutler, Robert Oliver, or Griffin Green, and
the publication of the fame, one month, in
one of the Gazettes printed in this City, (ball
be deemed furfic ent notice thereof.
Extradl from the Journals of Senate.
Attest,
SAM. A. OTIS, secretary.
May i - im -
Dr. Moore's Journal in France,
VOLUME id.
This Day is publijhed,
Price 6.. ttitcl-.ed, and 7/6 neaily bound, by
H. & P. RICE,
Book/ellers, No. 50, Market Jlreet,
A Journal during a refidenee in France,
from the beginning of August to the middle of
December 1792 ; To which is added, >n ac<
count of the 310 ft remaikable evejits that
happened at Paris, from that time to the death
of the late King of France.
By JOHN MOORE, M. D.
May 17 yr
City of Washington.
THE Subscribers to the Articles of Agree
ment ot the t( Columbian Society" are re
qucfted to meet at Mr. Richardet's Tavern
in the city of Philadelphia, on Monday the
26th day of the prelent month, at 12 o'clock
in order to choose a board of Managers, &c.
in conformity with the 9th article of their a
greement.
"James Greetileaf.
N.'B. Dinner wi,| be ordered oil the Table
at 3 o'clock for such of the Subscribers as
may choole to pass a social hour after the
jaufineOs of ;.ic day i< finifhed.
May 5* dtz6M.
For St. Croix,
INDUSTRY,
Lloyd Wharton, Malter.
SHE is intended to fail with the firft veflcls
and can accommodate a few pafiengers very
well. For terms apply to the Captain, or
WHARTON & GREEVES.
May '19. U6t
tlplv For LONDON >
PENN,
NOW lying at Jefie and Robert Wain's
wharf, to fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or paflage, anply to
JOHN FIELD & SON,
Or,
JESSE & ROBERT IVALN.
May 13. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
2 ANDROMACHE,
(An American bottom )
IS a itoui 3 Jod verfeJ, about two years old,
burfuen toiiN, has o fly made three v.>y-
ai d may be e to sea at a small ex
pence. She may be 'een at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms m v k own bv application to
WiiARTON d LEWIS.
Mar.-h 2i. dtf
For Frederickfburgh and Fal-
JL|--- - mouth, Virginia,
-SiySlr FRIENDSHIP,
|M'Namara.
Jj'ill fail 011 nexfc For fieighi
paifge apply o :be Mailer on bard, at
JOHN WALN'i \» a , or
EMANUEL fVALKER,
v» HO ii AS tOii SALE
The Cargo offaid V<ffcl —Confijhng of
YltCljriNi/i \v'Hxl.AT,I
KLvJt.
DE .R KINS, &cc.
GINSr.NG
'7 d -
Excellent CLARET,
In hogibcads and 111 calcs ot Dottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine j
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hoglheads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
' • JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front ilreet.
Jan. 2, 1794.
NOTICE.
THE OFFICE of the Secretary of Sratc is /
removed from High Street, to the New Build
ings, the corner of Sixth & Muloerry streets.
May 15 iw
—NO. 21 —
Second Jirest, bet<w?en Market and Che/nut
Jlrccts, Philadelphia.
POYNT ELL'S
American manufactory oj
PAPER HANGINGS,
WHERE he keeps up a constant stock rf
ten t'uoufand pieces for fyle, comprising every
variety of colours, in grounds and figures, ol
the most modern and tasty patterns, for eve
ry part of a house. The perfrftion attained
in tbis inanufaftory, in peru tar neatnels of
workmaufliip, durability ot colours, variety
in designs, and good quality ot the paper, will
be found to exceed any European papers at
the fame moderate .prices.
An elegant variety of rich fancy feftoon &
narrow borders, and of ftuccoand other co
loured pinnel pipers.
Plain grounds made to any colour orlhade.
Wholesale orders for any quantity, from
the country or for exportation, executed on
a Ihort notice, on advantageous terms, on
usual credit.
In addition to the above assortment, he has
a beautiful variety of
French paper hangings
of very fuperinr qu ility, (Paris manufjftory)
with a variety of Rich Borders. '
r '' 2 s t»th&s2w
SHOES. i
A quantity of stout well made Wen's flze '
SHOES, adapted for the Southern market,for '
sale at ' i
No. 36, North Third Jlreet.
® mw&fiat
Just Imported,
lit tbejhip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peter/burgh in RuJJia, and now landing at
Ritfl-lf s ivbarf,
HEM P,
BAR IRON,
RL'SSIA SHEETINGS,
RAVENS DICK,
RUSSIA DICK,
And for sale at the ftorei of the fubferiber in
Wjlnui ilieet, N". 22.
John Donnaldfon.
April 4. oiw t
JUST PUBLISHED,
AK D TO BE SO L D BY
THOMAS DOBS ON,
No. 41, foutb SecondJlreet,
Extract of a letter from a gen
rleman in America to a tnend in England, on
tiieSuhjeft of Emigration— price 1 Bth of a
doilar.
Ecclejiajlical EJlabliJbmentt detrimental to
a State.
Price t 8 ot'a Dollar.
April s2. mw&f3w
•Lately Publiflied.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street: |
Tnfc. Miltoiy ot N. w-Hamplhire, horn the
D. (covriy of the River Pifcat-aqua—oby j
rcmiuh Belknap, D. D. 3 Vois. Price tn Boards,
4 1-2 Dollars.
The Foirefter, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the Hiitory at John Bull the- Cioitner.
Prcr, Cents.
A Ditcoucfe, intended to commemorate the
Diicovery ot America by Chnitopbcr Colum
bus; delivered at the request of the Htiioncal
Society in Madachuletts, O&ober 23d, 1792,
being the Completion of the Thud Cen.u \,
since that memorable event. To which art
added, F «ur DiUcrtatioris, connected with the
fuhjcA—By the fame author. Price, 50 Cenis.
March 17. tuui&tjw
NANKEENS."
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
'FOR SALE AT
No. 40, porth Fifth Street.
April 11. mw&ftf
To the Electors of the city
county of Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
THIS being tiie lad year of the present
Sneriff's time, in office. I take the liber
ty to offer nivfelf a Candidate, and fvilicit
vour votes and interests in my favor, to pUre
me on the return at the next general Elect t,
as his fucceflory for said office ; in daing which,
you will confer an obligation that will be
gratefully remembered, by
Your most obedient,
and hum le fervanf,
JOHN BAKER.
May 3. est f.
JUST PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOBS ON,
ictkfeller, at the Stone House in SecondJlreet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA,
OR A
Dictionary of jfrts, Sciences, and Mifcel
ianeous Literature,
ON a plan entirely new ; by which the dif
ferent sciences and arts are digested into the
form ot dUintSt treatises or lyftems. This
volume contains the articles, medals, rnedi
:iue, i/ietdllurgy, metaphysics, methodic,
Mexico, mtcrolcope, midwifry, and a great
variety ot biographical and milcellaneous ar
icles, il!u(lrated with nineteen copperplates.
(P3" The rabies of* logarithms, &c. which
were deficient in the tenth volume, are Tub
oined to this.
Eleven vo'umesof this work are now pub
iflied, and the Xllth is in some forwardnefs.
On the firft of Septembe", i? 9 2» s he price
>f 'übfeription was increased TtN dollars on
ill ie ts not taken before that time. The sub-
CcriptiOn isftill open on these terms, and it
iny copies remain by the firft of July nexr,rhe
jrice wil! be raised TEN dollars more, on
iny copies which may be fubferibed for after
rhar period.
As many of the fubferibers have taken
jnly two, three or four, &c. volumes, they are
rameftlv requested to take up and pay tor the
emaining volumes, as it becomes difficult to
oinplete the setts, and the publilber does not
told himtelf bouud to make up any setts after
he firft day of July next.
Ap il 22. ml'tl^.wJ
S* J
For the Gazette of the United States
Mr. Fenno,
at
Please to insert the following,
b 7 reading" an Addrefe" to the Young La
dies of Mr. Poor's Academy.—
H HILE Mr. S , fays such charming
things,
j n And Jome in verse, and fame in prose fx
f"S>—
Would he, to his wife courtfcls give success,
He must example add to his " Address.
If be believes our J'ex, surpass his own,
Say, mould he in bis carriage ride a lotted
BELINDA.
Mr. Ff.nno,
A certain adventurer, advertised in one
- of tile morning papers of Monday, " that the
u ; 46th ascension which.has been announced,
a | caiuiot take place in Philadelphia. The iron
■ cylinders, which were supposed to be toler
able good, have been tried this day, and
found to be all good for nothing, as they let
out the inflammable on all fides."
" M. Blanchard renounces all aeroflatic
experiments in this country, until the arts
are brought to such perfection as to furnifh
him the means neceflary to ensure fuccels,"
Good Monf.eur B , Jure 'tis fomewbat
Jl range,
That after having gulfd us of our change,
fy eagles, chariots, balloons, puppet
* shews;
You tbenjhoiild twit us of our ignorant
Say, <we dm't know so much as folks in
France,
That Science here's a habe, without ber
Jhoes,
Because, your gaz, doth thro' eafl iron ooze
1 Know, balloon-man, you fhoul'd have calf d
> Jor ft eel—
You did not know we make it—know—and
feel.
When o'er th' Atlantic, Buffon cap Mis eye,
And ftvore our people mere but three feet
hi°b ;
Toe climate bad the men to pigmies whit
tled, ■
■dfagk poet, or a man of Jcience,
Tofhew —be bid America defiance,
The mind and flature both, were so — be
littled."
Buffon we could forgive—a slave at home;
But kinderfate permitted you to room—
Here yon mpy fee, if not a partial- f
'■ I Some men, not one whit finaller than yourfelf.
CONGRESS.
IN SENATE,
Friday, May 9, 1794.
( Concluded.)
Mr. Foster reported from the commit
tee on enrolled bills, that they did yester
day, lay befo:-e the President of the Uni
ted States, the fqllowlng enrolled bills,
to wit, the bill, fentitlecj, "An a<S far
the remifliort of the duties on eleven hogs
heads of Coffee which have been deftruy
ed by fire"—and the bill, eniitled, " An
ast supplementary to "An ast to pro
vide for the defence of certain ports and
harbors in the United States and that
they had this day, examined the bill, enti
tled, " An ast to erect a light-house on
the head land of Cape Hatteras; and a
lighted beacon on Sfyell Castle Island in
the State of Njrth-Carollha," and that
it was duly enrolled.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives, by Mr. Beckley their Clerk.:
" Mr. President—The President of the
United States hath notified the House of
Representatives, that he this day approv
ed and signed the following acts "An
ast providing for the raising & organizing
a corps of artillerists and engineers" "An
3ft supplementary to "An ast to ptovjde
for the defence of certain ports and har
bors in the United States," apd " An
ast directing a detachment from the Mi
litia of the United States." And he
withdrew.
A meflage from thr President of the
United States, by Mr. Dandridge his Se
' cretary :
" Mr. President—The President of the
United States hath this day approved and
signed " An ast fur the retnifijon of thevtks on eleven hogsheads of Coffee, I
»rhich have been deltroyed by fire."
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the Houfeof Representatives therewith. 1
The engrofTed bill to alter the time /or
the next meeting of Cougtefa, wis read
the third time.
On motion,
To strike out the words "jirjl Monday
in November next," and insert " second
Monday in November next."
it paired in the negative.
'On motion, That tiii» hill pass as en
grafted, 1
It palkd in the negative.
Mr. Brown from the committee to
whom was referred the bill for the relief
of the French inhabitants of Galliopoiis,
reported,
" That Rnfus Putnam, Manaflah Cut
ler, Robert Oliver, and Griffin Green, do
appear before the Senate on the
day of December next, to shew cause, if
any they have, why so much of a grant
and deed of conveyance for seven hun
dred and fifty thouland acres of land bor
dering on the Ohio River, executed by
the Prelident of the United States, to
the said Putnam, See. in trull for rhe O
hio sompany of aflociates puriuant to an
ast, entitled, " An ad authorizing the
grant and conveyance of certain lands to
the Ohio company of associates," shall
not be declared void, as may be fufficient
to fatisfy the claims of the French fct
tlers at Galliopoiis.
" Ordered, That the delivery of a co
py of the above order to Rufus Putnam,
Manafiah Cutler, Robert Oliver, or Grif
fin Green, and the publication of the
fame, one week, in one of the Gazette's
printed in this City, shall be deemed luf
ficient notice thereof."
Ordered. That this report lie for eon
fideration.
After the confjderation of the execu
tive buiincls,
Hie Senate adjourned until* 11 o'clcko
on Monday morning.
Monday, May 12th, 1794.
A meflage the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their Clerk :
" Mr. Prtlident—The House of Re
prefeutatives have pafled a bill, entitled,
" An ast providing for the payment of
certain expcnfes incurred by Fulwar Skip
wit b, public account," in which they
desire the concurrence of the Senate."
" The Speakei of the House of Re
presentatives having signed an enrolled
bill, I an diretted to bring it to the Se
nate for the signature of the Vice-Prefi
dent." And he withdrew.
l'lie bill lad brought up for concur
rence, was read.
On motion,
Ordered, That the rule be so far dis
pensed with as that this bill be now read
the feeond time.
Ordered, That this bill be referred to
Mr. ElHworth, Mr. Frelinghuyfen, and
Mr. Rols, to confidcr and report thereon
to the Senute.
The Yice-Prefident signed the enrolled
bill, entitled, " An ait to ere£ a light
house on the head land of Cape Hatte
ras ; and a lighted beacon on Shell Caltle
Island in the harbor of Occacock in the
State of North-Carolina," and it was de
livered to the committtee to be laid before
the President of the United States.
On motion,
Ordered, That the rule be so far dif.
penfed with, as that Mr. Ellfworth have
penniffion to bring in a bill, ro authorize
Dili rift Judges to adjourn Circuit Courts;
which was read the firft time.
On motion,
Ordered, That the rule be so far dif
penfcd with as that this bill, be now read
the second time.
Ordered, lhat this blil be referred to
Mr. Ellfworth, Mr. Frelinghuyfen and
Mr. Rofs, to confidcr aud report thereon
to the Senate.
(To be Continued.)
For the Gt.zt.nt.of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
As there Lave been misrepresentations ref
peft.ng the military bill, lately rejected
in the House of Representatives, the
fadts attending the progress of that fuV
jest should be known, and the public
will then be able to judge without com
ment on the propriety of the rejection.
On the original motion of Mr. Sedsr.
wick, at a time when the probability of
war ieemrd great, a refolutiou on a mo
tion of tnat gentleman was adopted, « that
ttie jtiiliiary force of the United States
ought to be rendered more efficient."
This was committed to a feleft committee
of nine, of yery different and opposite po
litical opinions and connexions. The re
port of this committee was unanimous. It
confided of four parts, I, to compleat the
present military eitablifhment; 2, to de
tach 80,000 men from the militia ; 3, to
raise a corps of art ilk ri its and engineers ;
and 4, to augment the military establish-
ment in cafe of war.
The three firft, after some discussion,
were adopted. Reflecting the lad there
was much opposition. The resolutions of
the (elect committee proposed delegating
an authority to the Pretident to decide on
the f act of the'exijiene of war ; and in
that event to commence the augmentation
of the military force. This delegation of
authority was made the principal ground
of opposition. After considerable discus
sion, Mr. Mercer proposed that the reso
lutions should be adopted and a bill re
ported to purport an immediate railing of
the force, that the bill might remain un
determined till towards the close of tVie
fellion, and then be rendered in its opera
tion direst or provisional, as the circuai-
Uances of the country might require.
This proposition was acceded to almost
urianimoudy ; the number of men, to wit,
25,000, which was proposed by General
Irvine was, it is believed, reported unani
mously, and a bill accordingly reported.
On the discussion of this bill, Mr. Sedg
wick believing on the one hand, that the
circumflances of the United States were
not so urgent as to authorise tK> expence
of immediately raising an army; and on
the other, that the abandoning altogether
the obtaining an efficient force was not
authorised by our present profpe&s, pro
posed to amend the bill by the following
lections:
Sec. 1. That there ffiall be raif d, upon
the terms and conditions herein after menti
oned, an additional provisional military force
to consist of non commissioned tifficers,
privates and musicians, together with a pro
per proportion of commiffioijed officers.
Sec. 2. And be it further enacted that
the non commissioned officers, privates and
mulicians, to be raised as aforefaid, ffiall be
inlifted upon these conditions, (to wit) un
less war ihall break out betwe n the United
States and some European power, they shall
not be liable to be called into (ervice for
more than days in a year, and then
only for the purpose of being muftsred, ex
erciled and trained. But if war (hail break
out with any European power, then they
(hall be bound to serve for tine term of three
years after the breaking out of such war,
or during the continuance thereof as they
(hall relpeftively engage; and every non
commissioned officer, private and musician
ffiall be entitled by virtue of his inliftment,
if to serve for a term of three years in cafe
of war, to an allowance of dollars, and
if to serve during the continuance of Inch
war to an allowance of dollars, and
yearly thereafter until the breaking out of
war,.(if the fame ihall happen )to the further
allowance of dollars.
And be it further enacted that for every
day of attendance or service of a Commission
ed officer, previous to the break ng out of
war, he ffiall be entitled to pay and fub
fifence, after the rate of the monthly pay
and iubfiftence now allowed to the officer's
of the army, according to the grade of such
commissioned officer, and for every day of
attendance or service of a non-commissioned
officer, private or musician, previous to the
breaking out of war, he ffiall be entitled to
the compensation of tents per day ; and
in the cafe of the breaking out of such war
the laid commissioned officers, non-commif
lioned officers, privates and musicians ffiall
remain the fame pay and allowances in all
relpeas as the troops on the military efta
bhffiroent of the United States ; and they
Ihall alio as well before as after the breaking
out of such war, be. governed by and fub
jeet to the rules and articles of war which
have been or ffiall be eftabliffied by law.
And be it further ena&ed that it ffiall be
lawtul for the President of the United States
previous to the breaking out of such war, to
alterable and keep together,, with their con
tent, such and so many of the officers and
non-commissioned officers aforefaid, as he
may think proper lor the purpose of being
inftru&ed and exercised ; which officers and
non-commissioned officers so alTembled ffiall
during the time they are together receive the
like pay and allowances to which they would
be entitled in time of war.
And be it further enacted that if war ffiall
not break out with some European power
withm a f ter t ( le passing of this ast
e ]| m ' force be raised as aforefaid!
Be it further ena&ed, that the non-com
fV mTI, ° ffice ; s 'PP rivates and musicians
e llt y e °f their engaging in the ser
vice aforefaid, shall, during their relpeftive
rantannce th in> be ex « mp(ed «*«£
.performance of any militia duty.
By these it will appear that neither
ilumber of men, nor time of service were
fi*ed by the motion ; the fiirlple question
was whether any provision should be made
to augment the military force in caie war
{hould break out ? Whether those who
supported, or those who rejected this mea
sure were right, the public will judge ;
whether it was the duty of the I-ejfifkture
to give aidto negociatii>n,9r provide by a
liable force for the defence ot the country
or not ?' It will undoubtedly appear that
the bill which was rejected was not Mr.
Sedgwick's bill, but a bill in exa£V con
formity to the resolutions of the Hou'fe—
It was not a bill for railing a Handing ar
my of 25,000 men.
Foreign Intelligence*
AMSTERDAM, March 15.
It is now resolved, to feaich and take
all Dani(h and Swedish vefiels bound to
France ; no body therefore will {hip in
them, nor can any insurance be done on
them either here or in London.
* ' ■
OSTEND, March 12.
On Saturday last a tifherman came in
here with the account that on the pre
ceding day he spoke a Swedish veflef, com
ing from Sweden and bound for Dunkirk,
laden with cannon powder &c. and which
had several French soldiers on board
The Swedish Captain desired the fifhcr
man to give him a man to pilot him into
Dunkirk which he could not refufe him,
whereupon he continued his voyage. The
fifherman having made this leport, the
commander of the English men of war
here, dispatched immediately a cutter in
order to take the Swedish vefTel: but the
cutter not being returned yet, and a ttrong
easterly wind blowing it is feared the
Swedish vefTel has reached Dunkirk before
the cutter could come up with it,; the
day before yesterday an English transport
arrived here from London, with 12 beau
tiful horses on board for the Duke of
York, which the king makes him a pre
lent of.
TURIN, February 26.
The French notwithstanding the fevcri
ty of the weather and the badneis of the
roads cannot be quiet; lately they attack
ed from Nigga the post at (Jolon'efts, and
made 50 of our loldiers with 2 officers
prisoners, they now threaten a.poit whict
commands the city of Saorgie.
ALGIERS, February 7.
The Dey is very favorably inclined to
wards the French, tothele alone it is al
owedto export grain ; a peimilFion which
las been rtfufed to the Spaniards. The
truce with Portugal has procured to the
Algen ies already 10 Amencan and 6 Ge
noees prizes. The plague is raging yet in
the interior pans of the country, but the
city has been clear of it ever lince last
August.
LONDON, February 28.
The Lawyers employed on the fubjeft
of the marriage of his Royal Highness
Pi ince Frederick with Lady A. Murray,
have had several meetings. The result
of their deliberation is favourable to the
young couple. Marriages solemnized
abroad are, by various Adts of the 13ri
tifh Parliament, recognized in this coun
try ; and the Ast of Parliament, which
was passed in the beginning of theprefent
rei g n > prohibiting the marriage of any
of the Royal family, without the consent
of his Majesty, and on which the present
application for a divorce is founded, does
not extend to marriages contrasted abroad.
Nothing can, therefore, invalidate the
union which took place between his Roy
al Highness and his Princels •in Italy, al
though themarriage here may be annulled.
A reputable mercantile house iti the
city had a recent and urgent claim made
on them by their French correspondents
of 26,0001. but, as it was supposed to
be done in conference of the late order
ot the National Convention, decreeing
L ,/ L ren - Ch P ro P ert y in foreign hands
. o be ""mediately called in, applica
tion has been made on the fubjeft to Mr.
litt, who, it is said, has advised the
parties to keep polTeflion of thfi money
tor the present.
The crew of the Crescent,' on Thurs
day, received their prize motiev for the
Reunion : including head-monev, the
men (hared 61, 10s. 6d
General Waflxington'h,. no children ;
and ' notw "hlla n d-
B v polTeis talents that would (hed luf
tre on any fituatiori, only one, Coltnel
Washington, ij in Congreis ; and
Wds a place, although every office in the
Executive Government is at the diiiofal
>f the Piefideiit.
March 19.
Extract of a letter from Captain Wilt*,
Simpfori, of the (hip Ark, bound fconi
London to Ancona.
7*oulon, January 1
This iff the firft day I have librrtv
granted n»e to write you, and I am ferry
to have to inform you, of mv being taken
on the 31ft of December, in theouterlav
of Toulon".
I arrived at Gibraltar the 17th, and on
the 18th a fignijl for a convoy to the e»ft.
ward was hoilted on board the Arddt.
On the Igth I went on board, and re
ceived my in!)nitons for Toulon, as theie
were none for Leghorn : but that from
Toulon there was an opportunity every
day, and was informed that they (hou'd
get under way as scon as it moderated,
which was in the afternoon of the f* m «
day. Foil- {hips and a frigate (the fa id
frigate came in two days before us, and
shared the fame fate) and I got under
way, in company with several othei3, and
failed. The next day we could fee no.
thing of our convoy. I kept along thi
coafl of Spain, and saw nothing to trou
ble us. In the Gulph of Lyons we L-u
several English and Spanifb men
but not one of them came to speak wit!
us.
On the 31ft ult. we came off this placd,
and feeing all appear friendly, and white
colors hoisted on all the fotts, we flood in,
to the outer bay ; I put the (hip about to
(land out again, when it fell calm all at
once ; and the Grand Fort of
poured the (hot so quick upon us, aod a
large boat being a-head, full of soldiers,
I was obliged to ftrikc, and now am in
close confinement, in company witfc my
two mates, without money, deaths, or
friends.
We have been well used finee we have
been prifonets.
P. S. Dated Feb. 16. Since I wrote
you the above, there have been three mora
-nglifh vessels taken ; one in the harbor
from Gueinfey, a Captain Wood, and a
Captain Barrel), of Yarmouth. Since
Lord Hood left this, thrre have been or
16 vessels, Spanish and Englilh taken in the
harbor—so you may judge what a good
look out is kept by the Englifn.
The Ark is efjpmated to be worth
4C,occL
EDINBURGH, February 28.
The House of Lords, on Friday last,
heard council in the Appeal from the
Court of Sefiion ; Reid, King, and Co.
of New-York, Vgaintt Me(frs. Coats, of
Glalgow, and reversed the decree on the
motion of Lord Thurlow. This judg
ment establishes an important point in
mercantile law, contrary to a train of de
cisions in the Court of Session, viz-
That when a bill of Exchange is given
not in the usual eourfe, but deposited a»
a collateral security for a debt, the person
with whom it is deposited, mull negociate
it, or do diligence just as in the common
cafe of foreign bills, otherwise he makes
it his own ; and if the money is loft by
his negligence, it mud be accounted as
payment of the original debt. In th!»
cafe, the terms of the receipt given for
the deposited bill were, that the taking it
(hould not exonerate the acceptors, &c.
of the original hill, unlefe actual pay
ment was made ; but the House declared,
that these words did not exepmt the hold
er from the obligation to negociate duly.
AMERICA.
* St. JOHN'S (Antigua) April 17.
We lavejuft been informed by Capt.
Barnes from Martinique, that on his pas
sage from that Island he spoKe the Expe
riment Capt. Carey, which a short time
palt \vas sent from this port to the Admi
ral at Guadeloupe, and by him had been
dispatched express to Martinique ; Capt.
Carey informed Capt. Barnes, that Joint
Petre had been taken with al! the Forts
near it and that 40 men had fallen ua our
fide in the contest.
A court of Vice-Admiralty was to have
been held at the court house yefteday for
the trva'l of the schooner La Fayette, *
J. \\ yatt commander, but poftpened fine
die.
* By cn a -rival 3 days ago', from An
i'gun, the public were informed th.it this vef
■f'l had been condemned—A mi/late jome
ivberc.
•."■h! V*"-April 24.
m By a vtffel which arrived yesterday
from Gaudaloupe we have had the plea-
Aire to learn the entile reduition of that
Island to the British dominion.
A very severe cannonade was heard at
Bafleterre on Sunday, which was at length
reduced, sword in hand on Tuefidav, it is
fttid that one half of the town was redu
ced to ashes.
The brig Liberty, Capt. Forfter, arri
ved this day from London, after a pSflage
of 34 days from the lands end; (he failed
in company with the fleet for the lee
ward Islands, out of which only three
were bound to this Colony, viz. the (hip
BrOofce, Capt. Oliver, the fliip Venus,
Capt. Kidd, and the (loop Mercury, Capt.
Lockhart. On her passage out, (he spoke
a (hip which failed in company with the
John of Liverpool, Capt. Richardson,
bound to this Island ; Capt. Foriter was
informed by the master of her, that (he
had fallen in with 4 French frigates (from
which (He had the good fortune to escape)
having 8 Englffh merchant (hips as pri
zes, and that he -Was under apprehensions
of tha John being one of them.
ROSEAU (Dominica) April lOi
St. Lticia surrendered at 9 o'clock in
the morning of the 4th init. the French
Garrison marched out of Morne Fortune
and laid down their arms as prifbneis of
war, they ave to be sent to France, not
to serve against the arms of his Britan
nic Majeity during the war.
His Royal Higlmefs Prince Edward
taking pofleflion with the Grenadiers and
Light Infantry hoisted the British colors,
& changed the name to that of Fort Char->
lotte. The 6th and gth regiments are
left under the command of Colonel Gor
don.
'Not a man killed or wounded.
Immediately after the surrender of the
Island of Martinique, his Excellency Sir
Charles Grey iflued a proclamation cal
ling upon the several Officers in the French
Courts of Law to come in and enter up
on their functions—in all matters that re
late between individual and individual, un
til his Majelty's pleasure be further known
-—Another was likewise iflfued, forbidding
that any French persons (hould appear
with Cockades, Crofles, or any other
narks of diftin<Stion» Unless authorized
by the King of Great Britain.
NASSAU, April 22.
Although the winds have been extreme
. ly favorable for veflels from the continent,
for a fortnight proceeding Monday, we
are without any later intelligence from
that quarter, than has already been given
in this Gazette.
From this circumflance, we are led to
believe that the greatest diligence has been
nfed in communicating the order for the
embargo throughout the dates, and that
it has been rigidly enforced.
Some of the Amcncan political writers
are of opinion, that the efforts made to
dij*c£t the ftrcam of labor towards manu
factures and commerce, have been already
productive of injury to their country, and 1
if; persevered in, may be of infinite detri
ment to her interests. I
A country thinly inhabited, and pro
ductive of the fruits of the earth, invites '
td. agricultural pursuits. The cheapncfs
of land compensates in a certain ratio for 1
the high price of labor—but that due
proportion must be loft, when in a coun- '
try thus circumstanced, a fondnefs for ,
manufactures and (hipping is allowed to
fupercede the attention requisite for the ]
cultivation of the earth.
New-England indeed forms an excep- r
tion to this observation. There, a nu
merous population, sterile foil, and long )
winter, compel the inhabitants to have
recoui fe to other means for acquiring sub- 1
fiftence, than what the culture of the earth
affords. The fifheries on their coasts in
vite to naval employment: And it will be 1
fjund on enquiry, that of the native Ame
rican seamen, full two-thirds are New- I
England men.
Of the crews that navigate the (hips ll
belonging to the middle and fouthcrn
states, it is truly surprising what a small \
proportion are Americans. Let the na
tives of England, Scotland and Ireland, E
be taken from the American veflels, and
very few seamen indeed will be left to man I,
cither a commercial or military navy.
These things will of course, correct
thcmfelves. There is a certain level, or P
proportion, if you will, that however dis
tributed at times, will eventually take Si
place. And perhaps the present -embar-
M , f
raflments of America may accelerate the
y ascertaining of this desideratum in her po
i- litical economy.
it
J PHILADELPHIA,.
s MAY 22.
The vessel and cargo taken from Captain
Barney, arid condemned at Jamaica, is valu
ed at 56,000 dollars.
A correspondent suggests that Congress
can find rro difficulty in defraying the ex
pences of the proposed army of 25,000 men,
» since a very ingenious merfiber has discover
, ed a surplus in the Treasury of three millions
of dollars.
The estimated expence of the Provisional
corps was reported by the committee and
stated in the House of at
only 350,000 dollars: this in an incendiary
paragraph in a factious paper is swelled to
the enormous fiim of 4 millions: the quo
ariimo is eaftly seen through.
The inconsistency of certain paragraphs
and certain men is all of a piece with the
measures of a certain party : a perpetual ef
fort on the one hand to excite to war, and a
perpetual opposition to all the measures ne
cessary to condudt a war fuccefsfully.
By two refutations pafied yefttrday, in
the .House of Representatives, Cungrefs
•are to rife on the third of June, and meet
on the firll Monday of November.
Extra# of a letter from StjEnftatius, May 4.
" American property now goes unmolest
ed, and every encouragement given them.
Guadaloupe is taken, and the British fleet
fails to-morrow for England."
Yesterday arrived the stoop Elizabeth,
Capt. Webb, in 7 days from Charleston. —
From Capt. Webb we have the following
information. That he failed from Charlel
ton with the ship Charleston, Capt. Garman,
and brig Nymph, Capt. Webb : On Mon
day last, off Chincoteague, was boarded by
the British privateer" lchooner Flying-Filh,
M'Kenna, matter, of Bermuda, mounting
12 guns—they kept pofleffion of the sloop
a considerable time; went into the cabin,
which they rumaged, and took off a variety
of articles, the fea-fiores of the paflengers,
&c. —they then gave chace to the Nymph,
until 6 0 clock in the evening, but did not
come up with her.—That on Tuesday as he
came into the Cr.pes, was again chaced by
the privateer until he arrived at the Light-
House, when a large lhip hov? in Tight, upon
discovering which the privateer shortened
fail, to wait her coming up —The (hip ap
peared very large, and (hewed 16 guns, hiift
ed British colours, fired two guns to leeward
and Hood up the Bay, the schooner in chace,
and was very near the ship, opposite the
Brdwn: when night coming on and Capt.
Webb being under fail loft fight of them.
The privateer had boarded the Charleston
previous to Capt. Webb's floop.—ln the
Charleston are 47 passengers.
Died, at New-York, on the 18th inft.
after a long indisposition, suddenly and
unexpeaedly, Mrs. Theodosia, conic-rt
of the Honorable Aar6n Burr, Esquire.
1 heatrical Intelligence, Ordinary and Ex
traordinary.
On Friday eve' next (as the Play-bill re
lates }
(T' discount other Bills) is a Bill for Bill
Bates,
To which he invitfs all the town, grave
and gay,
To fee wit and humour pourtray'd in a
Play;
Tis an Op'ra approved by critical men
As a laughable treat, from fam>d Sheri
dan's pen,
Byname Ihe Duenna, in which you
may view
The tricks an Old Maid played a roguifli
young Jew ;
Who gave up his eonfcience, love, honor,
tor pelf,
And by'fairing to cheat, was the dupe
of himfelf. r
The parts(in Dramatical phrase) are well
And will meet support, from the firft to
the lad.
Meflrs. Bates, Finch and Darley, (hall
laughter excite,
Whilst fair Broadhurft and Warrell, with
linging delight,
Each (hall willingly ast in their feign'd
lituation, 6
[ " h0 b P a e tl 0 0 f n reWard from 5 0ur kind appro
farce > a ft range -whinfual
sha!l /4 r ° logUe - reC:te ' ,t was - writ by Some. ,
e To Jny-lody addreff'd, and faith fiat to
jeer it,
He humbiy requests Etiery body to hear
it.
And then to conclude, you'll have song,
dance and rhime,
Dreff'd un in the form of grotefquc Pan- 1
tomim ,
'Tis an extra# of mirth, on De Foe's sa
l vorite plan
Of Old Robin/on Crufoe with Vriday his
Man,
, f excite jov and laughter and crown the
whole scene,
, You'll amufemcnt receive from the gay
Harlequin
Who, by flights, tricks and leaps (hall e
lude all pursuit,
, And in adtion converse, tho' hit tongue
remains mute.
In fliort he will use every art and endeavor,
Ii you'll come, to obtain your good-will
and favor,
N. B I'or ladie9 there's places referv'd
i.i the Boxes,
In the Gallery room for smart lads and
their Doxies;
Andthofe who're resolved in neither to fit,
May find situ atioi.s below in the Pit.
With a wish on that night, all his friends
there to- fee,
Te the public he humbly subscribes, W. B.
By this Day's Mail.
-YORK, May 21,
ExttaftM a letter from a r-fp e Hable mer
cantde house in L,Jbon, to their correfbon
dent in this city, dated March 18, 1794.
" We have hopes that the time is now
near, when business will again be done be
twixt us &-the states with its farmer liber
ty and difembarrafiment ,and that you will
have an opportunity of fending again
your fiiips to Europe, as it is reported that
the Portuguefs has or will declare war a
gainst the Algerines ; and will soon have
a fleet out against them as formerly."
ARRIVED.
Ship Aurora, Hovey, London
Sch'r Harriot, Granton, Barbadoes
Capt. Hovey of the (hip Aurora, on
the 23d April, at 10, a. m. spoke ship
—-—, Capt. Andw. Miller, bound from
Liibou to Philadelphia, out 25 days, who
supposed himfelf in lat. 34. odd': Also
brig-. , fr:im Hamburgh, out 28 day 3
Capt. John Hodge, long. 38 odd, bound
to Philadelphia, who informed the Alge
rines had taken 14 faih In lat. 38, 35
north, spoke the Columbia, from Boston,
out 13 days, April 28. May 9, lat. 39,
27, spoke a Portuguese ship from Lisbon,
Noftra Senhoradel Mar?velhas, for Phila
delphia, out 50 days, had taken in a cargo
of lalt at St. Übes j the Captain inform
ed us that a tieaty was made
j Portugal and the Dey of Algiers for a
twelve month, at the expiration of which
the Portuguese were either to pay the
Dey four millions of piasters yearly, or
tO declare war. By the treaty, Ameri
carf /hips have an unmolested right to
trade to Portugal. 12th. Spoke an arm
ed (hip letter of marque from Liverpool,
bound to Philadelphia, out 53 days, (he
mounted l<> $Uns, long. 61 weft. 16th.
Spoke a brig bowid to Boston from Gua
daloupe, Capt. D v avid Shelburne.
NORFOLK, May 14.
On Monday last arrived here the schooner
Industrious Mary, Capt. Ht'nter, in 14 days
from St. Bartholomews. Capt. Hunter in
forms, that the Englilh landed a»ld took pos
session of Point Petre, (Guadaloitpe) about
the 10th of April, after a fire of 6 horn's ;
they surrendered at discretion j the Mole
was in pofieffion of the English on the 21ft,
and Balfeteire surrendered on the 25th April,
with little opposition. In consequence of
several Americans being found in the Foil"
Fleur d'Epec, ail the Americans at Point
Petre were put in confinement.
We undcrltand by a letter from a gentle
man at Savannah, that the French have tak
en the island of St. Mary's from the Spani
ards.
1 he (hip Mary, Preble, from this port,
to London, is put into Boulogne.
T he brig Industry, Blake, from this port,
arrived at Gravefend the 6th of March.
CHARLESTON, May 5.
To Citizen Fonfpertius, Consul cf the
French Republic.
Fhe citizens of Charleston conceive them
selves under many and great obligations
for your veryjfimely interposition and ju
dicious proclamation of exerting your
| powers to put a (lop to thecruel bloodshed,
murders and aflaflinations, which are el
| molt daily committed in our streets by the
I Frcuch i'camen who now croud our liar-
0 bour. It is to you citizen, that within a
few days past our city has enjoyed some
r tranquillity,' a«d that the laws of our
country havebeen madeto be refpedled by
, a foreign er.
A French Defendant.
This day, the Committee of the House
. of Reprefentativesof the United States,
appointed in Januarylaft, to make enquiry
1 into th« tranfactiouj of the Treasury De
partment } brought in a report—which
was read :—lt contains a very lengthy
statement of fa£ts. Ordered to be printed.
The Baltimore Daily Advertlfer of Tues
day last, contains an association signed by 63
masters and mates of veflels, in which they
declare they will not proceed to sea, until
they can be allured that the flag of the Uni
ted States will be refpedled, and their persons
feeured. 7 he reasons for this resolution as
'fated at large—are the insults and loflts they '
have fuftamed, and are liable to while the
laws of nations are so shamelessly violated
by British privateers and men of war. The
above association shall appear at large to
moriow.
Arrived at Philadelphia,
Ship Charlelton, German, Charleflon 14,
An English Letter of Marque, of 16
guns, belonging to Liverpool, is arrived
in the Delaware : An American brig i*
also arrived at the Fort, name unknown.
~' 1 ' ' ■
NEW THEATRJ2.
Mr. Bates's Night.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
May 23.
Will be performed,
A COMIC OPERA, called
THE DUENNA;
O R,
"7be Double Elopement.
Don Jerome, Mr. Finch
Don Ferdinand, Mr. Marshall
Aut ," mo > Mr. Francis
Larlos > Mr. Darley, jun.
L°P ez ' , Mr. Bliflet
lather Paul, Mr. Darley
rather Francis, Mr.Warrell
Starved Friar, Mr. De Moulin
Isaac • Mendoza, Mr. Bate*
Clara, ' Miss Broadhurft
Louisa, Mrs. VVarrell
Flo r a, Mrs. Cleveland
Margaret, (the Duenna) Mm. Shaw
In the oourfe of, the Opera, Mr. Bates will
(for that night Only) introduce a vocal
fquealung grunting rhiming Rhapfodv,
called '
The Learned Pig •
OR,
The Fortune-Teller on All Fours.
Preceding the Kntertainment, a Whimftcal
Pantomimical PROLOGUE, supposed to
be written by Some-Body, addrefTed to
Any-Body, to be heard by Every-Body, and
to be delivered iri the character of NO
-1 BODY, by Mr. Bates.
e At the conclusion of which, he will (for
r that night onlyj
Leap thro' a Grand Tran/parent Star, **
} Eight feet high, illuminated with
Fire Works.
To which will be added,
; In two parts , for the firft time at this The
atre, the Pantomime of
Robinson Crufoe ;
OR, J
HARLEQUIN FRIDAY.
With the original Music, Scenery, Machi
nery, Drefles, he.
The Scenery designed and painted by Mr.
Milbourne.
The Pautomime produced under the direc
tion of Mr. Bates.
Robinson Crufoe, Mr. Whitlock
* ,ierot > , Mr. Darleyjun,
Spaniard, Mr. Cleveland
Pantaloon, Mr. De Moulin
nt 01 • /. , Mr - ®'*flet
Capt.of Ship, (with a song) Mr. Darley
Harlequin Friday, (for that night
only) by Mr. Bates
Columbine, Miss Willems
In A3 the Firjl,
A Dance of Indian Savages.'
At the conclusion of the Enti rtainment
Mr. Quefnet, from the Optra House in Pa'ris
w 11 dance
Une Entrie Pqjlorale.
Being his firft appearance in this country.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Bates, at the cor
ner of south Seventh and Chefnut ftrtcts.
Carr's Musical Repository, Market street'
The Office of the Theatre, and of Mr.
Franklin, where places maybe taken.
On Monday, a Comedy, (never perform
ed here) called, SHE WOULD and SHE
WOULD NOT, or the KIND IMPOR
TER. With entertainments for the benefit
of Ms. Morris.
Mr. WHTTLCCK's NIGHT on
nefday th. 18th.ESSENCE I
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold by T)r» LtEE>\Golden-
Square, London.
THE public is offered one of the most
efficacious and fatfe Medicines, th.it ever ap
peared, for that most excruciating paiiv, the
Tooth-Ache—the numerou.s iivftances of its
happy effe&s, in relieving the affli&ed, have
now brought it info u riverfal eftunarion; it
not onlv relieves the tooth-ache, but is of the
service in curiug the SCURVY in the
Gums, in preventing the dilagreeable lmell
• that'"> produced from urt r ou'»d tee h, &. w» 11
occasion a sweet breath; it 1 ikewi/e prevents
the teeth from decaying, and will he found
a general preferverof the Teeth and Gums
Sold in Philadelphia only at
Poynteli's Stationary Store,
Nb. 2i r Second street.
April 24. tuth&S 3W
Advertisement.
THK relations ot Mr Tliomas Curtis,for
merly of Ellicoti's Upper Mills, and lately of
tlie C ty of Waflrngtnn. deceafrd, are defir.
Ed to apply and have his alf. rs fettied.
City of Wafliington, April 22, 1764.
M.J m&th4w
* JUST PUBLISHED,
MATHEW* CAREY,
118, Market Jlreel,
Price 18 cents,
THE
Catechilm of Man ;
Pointing out si 0111 found principles, and ac
knowledged facts the Rights-and Duties of
every Rational Bemg.
Am I therefore become your enemy because I
tell you the truth ? Gal. iv. 16
Now all thrfc things happened unto them for
examples, and they are written for our
v admonition, upon whom the ends of the
earth arc come. i Cor. xii.
May 10 tuth&saw
fbe Ground Plan
-OF THE
City and Suburbs
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN PROM ACTUAL SURI'KY*
IT is "with pieafure that the publiihef has to
inform his fubicrihers and the public in gene
ral, that the plate ;s now under the hands of
the engraver, and in greater forwardnfs than
was at si ft contemplated. At the fame time
he begs leave tor mind them, th t fubferip
tion pa pers are Hill open at moftof the noted
hook-flares. in the city ; and that he hopes
from the whole of them to be enabled to fo;m
such a refpeftable catalogue of names, as will
do a credit to the work, as well as afford a
reasonable encouragement to the under take-r
Thafe who are delirousof further informa.
tiorf are i6quefted to call on
Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, .Market street.
April 14. m&thtf
ADVERTISEMENT?"
OF the money robbed from \the mail near
Baltimore, by O iftor Gant, no dollars wer*
afterwards sent by an unknown hand, to t!:e
Pultm.i.ter at Baltimore, ,who transmitted
the Tame to,the General post Office. The fuf
ferers by that robbery arc riefired I ft.it. the
amount of their lofTes respectively, and tranf
niit the lame, wish the original letters of their
correspondents f where recovered) or ot!ier
evidence thereof to the General Pol} Office,
before the firft day of June next, immediate
ly afier which a dividend will be made among
the claimants.
TIMOTHY" PICKERING,
Post Majter General.
Gen. Post Office, April 4, 1794 ia w6w
Treasury Department.
Revenue-OJ/ice, May "Jth, 1794.
NOTICE is lie<eby given, thai pi opofals
will be received at the Office of the Commif
fio rot" the R.-venue, for Ship Timber of
the following ki ids, suitable for the buildino
of the Frigates authorized by Law. A par
ticu'ar detail of the sizes and proportions will,
be communicated, on application at the said
Office.
White Oak Timber and Plank.
98 Pieces of various Dimensions, includ
ing Keels, Floor and Rif,, )g Timbers,
VcfTel of 140 or 150 feet
. Feet of Plank, Scantling, \Val-
Jj Pieces, Bilge St eak., Clamps, &c. &e
gj 200 for various uses.
£ Pitch Pine.
, 25,000 Feet of Plank for Decks,
o 2.0 Beams, from 42 to 28 feet long, and
«, frojn 10 jy 12 to 15 by 18 inches thro'.
fc. Locust Treenails, 18, 24 and 30
inches long.
5,000 Feet of Inch and half-inch Cedar
boards.
3c,000 Feet of Yellow Pine Boards and
, Scantling.
Perf ns -willing to fu,>ply any part of tqe
above I imber for one Sup, or in proportion
lor the who e fix, will nuke their Piopofah
accordingly. tuSrf3w
MADEIRA,
SHEkIIY,
PORT, WINES of the firft quality
LISBON. &
teneriffe.J
Old Jamaica Spiut, Antigua and Well India .
Rum
French and Peach Brandies
Claret and Port Wine of a luperior quality
in cafe;i - . • ~u
WineGyder and Vinegar in pipes and lihds-
Corks in Balfc«f, Havannah Segars in Boxei.
Philadelphia Porter, in Casks and Bottles.
London do. in do. do.
Philadelphia Ale and Beer in im- do.
London do. in do. do and
Cyder-iii barrels and bottles, preparedfor ex
portation or mediate use,
FOR SALE BY
Benjamin W. Moris,
The corner of Dock and Pear street s,
W ere he has provided suitable stores and
vaulrs, for 'the rereption of
WINES, &c.
Which h-' proposes to ft >rc ov di pose of on
coram iflion
Captainsof vessels and othe sfuppliedwith
any ot the al ove LIQUORS i ottled, and lea
stores in gene al put up.
May 9 fu&f2m
Concluding Sales.
THE Subscriber having entertd into Co
partnerlhip with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the bufni'fs of Sugar Refining,/-will dispose
of the , .
Remaining Stock on hand
CONSISTING OF
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By Wljolefale at Prime Cojl fomCaJh.
John Dorfey,
* No. 22, North 3d street.
April I . toth&-.6w
A New Novel.
Tothe LADIES of Philadelphia.
This Day is Published by
MATHEW CAREY,
118, Market street,
bound, live eighths of a dollar, sewed
in 11 arble paper, half a dollar,
Charlotte, of Truth,.
IN TWO VOLUMES.
By Mrs. ROWSON, of the New Theatre,
Phladelphia, Author of Victoria, the In
quisitor, the Fille de Chambte, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given
the following character*
IT may be a Tale of Truth, for it is ftot
unnatural, anci it ic a tale of real diitrefs.—
Charlotte, by the tytifice of a teachei, recom
mended to a fchnoi, from bnmanity rather
than a convi&ion ot her integrity, or the re
gularity of her former conduit, is enticed
from her governed, and accompanies a young
officer to America.—-The marriage ceremo j
ny, if not forgotten, is postponed, and Char
lotte dies a martyr to the inconstancy of the
over, and treachery ot his friend —The (itu- i
tions are artless and affefting—t he defciip- '
ations natural and pathetic ; ,we should fee '
for Charlotte if such a perfoir ever existed,
who for one er> or (carcely, perhaps,<leferved
so ieve r e a punishment. If it is a fidlion,
poetic j uflice is not, we think, properly dif
tributed
Said Carey has jujl publijhed
A 2 sheet map of Kentucky
compiled by Elihu Barker, price ore dollar
and two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Germany, Spain,ltaly, the United Provinces,
the Netherlands, aud the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars.
Ma;i of New Jersey—Hals a dollar.
Map 1 of Vermont, Conneaicuf, Delaware,
Georgia——Price three eighths of a dollai
each.
April 29. tuth&s3w
Books by au&ion.
On Wednesday, Thursday, and Saturday
next, at four o'clock in the afternoon, at
J. Connelly's Au&ion Store,
No. 78, south FrontJfreet,
Will be continued the sale of a valuable
Collection of BOOKS,
Mostly new or in good condition, beginning
at No. 15 7 in the catalogue.
They may be seen any day prior to the
sale from IO till a o'clock, at No. 26, Spruce
street, where catalogues may be had and com
missions received from any persons who can
not attend the fate.
Ma >' 19 dts
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Petersburg in Russia,
And now landing at South-street Wlurf, viz
Hemp, '
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
and for sale bv
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-ftrcet.
March 4,1794. diwjtawtf
.# .
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bilk of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
several of which have appeared in circulation
within a few days pajl; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be diflingui/hed by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M. would extend con
fidtrably above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
The i and/in the word promise are not
parallel, the/inclining much more forward
thin the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the fti okes
of all the Letters are ft rouge r and the devi' e
in the margin particularly is much coarser and
appeal's darker than in the true bills. Some
el the counterfeits bear date in 1791—Where
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were ifTued in
lhat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper neatly similar
to that of the Five Dollar Notes
above described; the engraving is bettei exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to tiie.ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Tain- (
in the body of the bill, are in number thir
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as defer ibed a
bove, the 0 being less than them, and others
following.
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Twenty, tp the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are so cat as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and the 7 go
ing oelow them.
The signature J, Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamb-black and
oil, and differs from other inks uftd in
printing the bills and the calhiei's lignature.
It is supposed thele forgeries were committed
in some of the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come trom
thence, and two persons have been apprehend
ed in Virginia,on suspicion of being the author
of i hem.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Perlon or Persons wfio (hail
difcovei and profccute to conviction the levelal
offenders of the following descriptions or any
of thcin, viz.
The peifon or persons, who manufaflured
the paper on which the Bills are printed.
The person or pet lons, who engiaved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
Every person who has atted as a principal in
any othei way, in the counterfeiting'and utter
ing the said b Us.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabeticalmaik is the let
ter JB.
They may be dillinguiflied from the genu
ine by the following MARKS :
The paper of the counterfeits is of a more
! tender texture and glofley furfacc than the
genuine, and there isno water mark in them.
The letter t.. in the word Cashier, in the
true bills is strongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
stroke, evidently in an unfinilhed state. The
letter a in the word demand, is badly formed
and the whole word ill dpne, and there is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
h ma , r £'"?' device, is much daiker in
Ik* rt 'j' '' lan genuine bills owing to
e a e strokes being coarser, much nearer
ogt t.ier, and consequently much more nu
merous. This difference strikes the eye at firft
view. '
noii rcward of ON E THOUSAND
: „ r • s ' wi " be paid for apprehending, &
. piolecuting to conviction the several above
• H e I C , n^ d ? ffende " in ref pea to this, as to
. the last described bills.
THOMAS WILLING, P.efxdent
of the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bank ot North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
-1 peftive Boards.
• TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
TNan eligible situation,—also a Country Seat
A w ihtn 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres ol land and meadow, the
House , s not exceeded bymany in the viciuity
I of th- city,, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
ir.&thtf
Beef, Pork, and Butter.
BEEF, prime and cargo ot good quality
PORK, prime and cargo of do.
BURLINGION PORK
BUTTER, in firkins
ALSO,
A CARGO OF
MAHOGANT,
Landing at John Weft's Lumber Yaro, near
Pool'-s Bridg , from on board the Fail Ameri
can, from rhc Bav of Honduras, and
3000 bushels of Good Wheat
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 35, No. Water Street.
May ij. ,
Just Publiflied,
A one handsome volume, umo. Pri te JS
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No, 41, Chefuut
Street,
AN ESSAY OJN THE
Natural Equality of Men
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Cor reded and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
Profeflbr of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
of Nature, and of Ecclesiastical History ;
and Minister of the Englilh Church at U
trecht.
Aliquid Temper ad communtra utilitatem af
ferrndum Cicero.
The First American Edition.
r T""HEgrand principle of Equafity, if right-
A iy underftooc!, is the only basis on which
univerl'al justice, sacred. o: der, and perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The view of it exhibited in thii
efiay, at the fame time that it reprefTes the
insolence of office) the tyranny of p. Ide, and
the outrages of oppression ; confirms, in the
most forcible manner, the necessity of fub t »-
dination, and the jult demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,-
evejy natural and every civil diftin&ion,
draws more cloTely every Jbcial tie, unites in
one harmonious and justly proportioned fyf.
tenij and brings men together on the evert
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. t u ts
STATE OF SOUTH-CAROLINA*
In the House of Reprefentati e ves y *
December 21(1,1793.
WHEREAS the Commiflionersof public
Accounts, hive reported, that they can
not proceed to the uiveftijation ol live Treafo-ry A
Account*, refpc6ting special Indents, without *
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation Therefore^
Rejblved, That all holders of fpetial Indents
be dirt£led, and required, on or befoii the fiift
day of November n xt, to deliver the fpccial In
dents in their pofiYfiion to one or other ot. the
Commillioners of the TreaTury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to report toiheCom
miflioners on public accounts, on or beioje the
tenth day of November next, the amoun; by
thero relpeftively received, and also to the Le
gtflature, at their meeting in November next,
and that all special Indents not "rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the fitft day
of November next, lhall be, and the fame aie
heieby baned.
Rcjolvedy That public notice of this refolu{ion
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until.the firft day of
November next. And that the Delegates of this
State in theCongrefs of the Uuited State?, be re
qutfted to cause this rdolution to be published
in one or more papers in the cities of,PhiladcU
phia and New-York, and that provision will.be
made for the expences attending fych publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be Cent to the
•Senate for therr concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SAN J OR D DART, £ B- R.
In the SENATE,
December 21(1,1793.
Refilled, That this House do concur with the
Houie of Representatives in the foregoing reso
lutions.
Ordered, That the resolutions be sent to the
House of Representatives.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov#
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b<gs leave to of
f r his Cervices to his (riends and others, in the
line o(a Stock Broker. Thofc who may please
to favor htm with their bufioefs, rogy depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the vtnjoft fide
lity arid dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will be ftri&ly
attended to. LEON ARD BLEECKER.
' m&thtf
PHILADELPHIA:
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 3
South Fourth-Street.
A