E V E N I N G ADVERTISER.
[No. 155 of Vol. V.] Saturday, May 1 7, 1794. [Whole No. 529.]
* ' 1 " 1 r ... »
REMAINING
OF THE
Ship India's Cargo,
•FROM
bengal.
A small aiTortment of
BALE GOODS,
250 bags COTTON of good quality, which
would probably make an excellent remit
tance to Europe a»jd a
Quality 6f PEPPER
For Sale ly
Mordecai Lewis,
IVho has also to difpofi of
Barcelo' & Hand fs. in boxes,
Holland Gin in ta'es,
Souchong, liy.fon, and Tonkay Tea,
A quantity of Brim/tone, See.
May \° .. <^3 w
1* O T I C E.
THE Subscriber leaving this cty fl a short
tims, has empowered Mr. Thr>ni..s Potier to
trariaft ill bufineistn Iris abl'ence, holding his
trattfarfttons as Valued nn
Louis Ofmdiit.
May 10 dtf
City of Washington.
THt Subscribers to the Articles ol* Agree
ment of the 44 Columbian Society" are re
queued to meet at Mr. Richardet's Tavern
in the city of Philadelphia, on Monday the
2t>th of the pre Tent month, at 12 o'clock
in order »o chooie a board of Managets, &c.
in conformity with the 9th article of their a
greement.
"James Greenleaf.
N. B. Dinner wi I b order d on file Table
at 3 o'clock for fucli of tUe Subscribers as
may chooie to pals a facial hour after the
bulinefs of the day is finilhed.
May 5 dca6M.
FOR SALE,
• „ BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
MSikct-Hr.xct,
An Eflay on Slavery,
.Dejigncd to exhibit in a new point ol view
i»s etteils on morals, indufry, and the peace of
society. Some tacts and calculations are otfeicd
to prove the labor of freemen to he much more
productive ihan that ol /laves ; thai countries arr
rich, powerlOl and happy, in propoitioft as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor; and hente the n ceffaiy contlufion, that
(lavery is impolitic at. well as kr.juji.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February 15.
Ccngrefs of the Uiiited States,
In Senate, Tuejday May 13th, i 794.
ORDERED, that Rufus Putnam J M <.r. a:
fah Cutler, Robert Olrvei and Griffii.
Green, do, upon the third Monday of Decem
ber next, (he\r caUse to the Senate, why so
much of th grants of land to ihem the (aid
Kill us Putitahi, Manairah Cutler, Robert
Oliver and Griffin Green, pursuant to an Ast
entirl d 44 An a (5i authorizing the and
conveyance of certain lands to the Ohio Com
pany of alTociates," shall not be declared
void, as may interfere with and be fufficient
to fatisfy the claiins of th- ,French settlers
st Galliopolis.
Ordered, that the delivery of a copy of
the above order to Rulus Putnam, Martaffah
t utler, Robert Oliver, or Gnfiin Green, and
the publication of the Tame, one month, in
one of the Gazettes printed in this City, lhali
be deemed fuffictent notice the erf.
Extratt from the Journals of Senate.
Attest,
SAM. A. OTIS, fecretarv.
Ma y *4- nn.
ESSENCE
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold by Dr. Lee, Golden-
Square, London.
THE pubic is oTereJ one of the most
efficacious and fafe medicines, thiit ever ap
peered, Cor that most excruciating pain, the
Tooth-Ache—tfce numerous instances of its
happy effects, jr relieving the afflicted, have
now brought it into niiverfel eftimatior ; it
not only relieves the tooth ache, but is of the
uhnoft service in curing the SCURVY in the
Guns, in preventing the disagreeable fraeJl
that's produced from unsound teeth, & wii;
occasion a Tweet breath; ft likewise prevents
the teeth from decaying, and wifl be found
a general prelei vc of the Teeth and Gums
Sold in Philadelphia bnlv at
Poyntell's Stationary Store,
No. 21, Second street.
t April 2j. tuth&s 3W
j A$W THEATRE.
For thfe Benefit of
Mr. CHALMERS,
On Wednesday, May 21.
A PLAT and FARCE,
I As will be exp'refled in the Bills of' tHe *
D.A Y.
May J 5 <f.
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY and SKETtiCii
BURR STONES,
FOR SALE BV
Gurney and Smith.
May 14. d
Excellent CLARET,
In hog (heads arid in cases of 50 boulcs each. I
I ALSO, I
A few cases Champaigns Wine;
MADEIRA,
I In pipes, hog (heads and guaucr ca(ks, j
I FOR SALE BY
JOHN" VAUGHAtt,
I No. li i, South Front It reel. I
Jan. 2", ijg'f-. dtf I
NOTICE.
THE OFFICE of the Secretary ..t'Staf is
removed from High Street, tb the N vr Build I
I ings, ilic corner ol Sjxtli & Mulbenji li e. ts I
I May 15 1 w I
Diftri6lof Pennsylvania
T 0 W I T:
I (L S ) it remeniDe ec-, that on tie I
I w twenty fourth day of IMa ch, in J
I the eighteenth year of the iodep-nd ce eft the J
I United States of Amenca, E BfcNiZtS. linSAO'D j
I of the laid diitrict, basil epuiiud int-tisoffitc, J.
* j J.' 1 ® *Vtie of a Freak:.ffog r «-J j
Ia 1? author, in the word> following,"to wit: ]
I • " Hiitorical C >lle£Vions; coTififiing of (late I
I papers, and other authe tit documents ; in- j
I tended as materials for art hiftbry of the U- I
J nited States of Am rica. j
By EBENEZEd HAZARD, A.M..
j Member ot the Anient:*!) Paiiofopl ical So- j
I cietv, he id at Phi lade Iph a, for promoting I
I ufeful knowledge; Feiiow of the American j
I academy of A*ts and Sciences j a-id corrtp I
J pondent mem er of the MalTachufotts Kifto- I
I rical Society.
VOLUME 11.
I Ingeniutn, Pretas, Artes, abbd'tic'a virtu , I
Hue piolngs venient, et Regna illufti ia I
condent, I
J Et Domina hie Virtus erit, et Fortnna li i- I ]
rwftra." I
In conformity to the ast of t4ie Congress of] j
the United States, entitled 44 An ast for the j
eucouragement of learning, by securing the I
copies of maps, charts and books, to the au- I
j thors and proprietors of fuel* copies, during j 1
I the times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, 1
Clerk of the Dijlrift of Pcrmfyl'vania. I
*^ f -y 7 ew4w
Treasury Department.
Revenue-Office, May "Jth, 1794. t
J NOTICE is here >, liven,that Pi bpo als I »
will be received at the Officfc ot the Comnif- I' t
I fioner ot the Revenue, for Ship Timber ol' I r
the following kinds, suitable for the building i
of the Frigates authorised bv Law. A par. v
t'ctilar detail ot the sizes arid proportions \»*i'l I i
Ibj c immunicated, on application at the said I'
Office. t
j White Oak Tutibef and Plank.
I f9B Pieces of various nclud- J n
ing Keels, Floor and Riling Timbers, I >'■
Sc. for a VelTel of 149 or i s d fetet
Keel. t
27,000 Feet of Plank, Scantlinp, Wile j f
u Pieces, Bilge Stieak , Clamps, &<;. ja
I S) 2 t-ogs, for various uses. i-u
I £ Pitch Pine. |
j J 25,000 Feet of Plank for Declcs. a
I o 210 Beams, from 42 to 28 feet long 1 , ahd j ]
x from 10 by 12 to 15 by 18 inches thrt,'. j
U, 50,000 Locust Treenails, 18, 24 and 30 w
J inches long.
J.OTo Feet of Inch and lialf-inch Cedar
Board?.
I 3°» oc> o Feet of Yellow Pine Boards and
I Scantling. j
J Persons willing to supply any part of tqe I
I above Timber for one Ship, or in proportion j
for the Whole fix, will make their PropofaU
I accordingly. I
j tußd"3w.
i'tKßv Benson, Maittr.
Burthen about 140 tons, is intended to fail
ae footi as her inward cargo is difcbarged, un
lels,freight Ihould offer to detain her.
for freight apply to the Captain on' board
arMamrltcm's wharf, or to
SAMUEL isf MIERS FISHER,
, Who have for Sale,
A FEW PIPES
Cargo TeneriiFe wine
And a tew pipes Sweet Do.
Excellent.SHeSrry Wine in quarter casks
Loudon Porter in 42' gallon calks
White and Rt'd Leaif iftd Sjjanilß' Brown
Tin plates in boxes
An a'F tinent of" Eatl India Fans, Nan
keen and Silks
with a general aiTortment oT Merchandize !
a; u'oal.
sth Mt> 5, 1794 dtf
fljjgv"" For LONDON,
jiMIS^WILLI&PENN,
NuW iyiiig at Jell'e and Hobert Wain's
wharf, to fail with all convenient ipced. For
freight or pafllgf, apply to
JOHN FIELD & Stilt,
Or,
JESSE & ROBERT IVALN.
May 13. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
PROM AC HE,
>~^r—TiTflamm John Moore, Majier.
i-S a ltouc velll'l, about two years old,
burthen Z32 tons, has only made thtee vDy-
and may be lent to' Tea at a ex
police. She may be Teen at Vihe-ftreet
aud the terms made known by application to
. WHARTON & LEWIS.
-March 2i. _ dtf
Sales at Auction.
On Thursday the 15th and Saturday the
17th inft. id TWO o'clock in the after
noon, at • •
John Connelly's Atrdtion store,
iVb. "j 8, South Front Jireet,
A CHOICE COLLECTION
BOOKS,
in various Branches oj literature.
Catalogots may be had"at the stone as a
bove jtnd at No. 16, Sjlruc£ ftrfcet, where
the BOOKS may be fecu any thne before the
sale,
May 13. dst".
—NO. 2r—
Second Jireet, befnutns Mzrklt atd Gtjifmi
Jlreets, Philadelphia.
POYNTELL'S
AM-r iIICAN FACTORY OF
PAPER HANGINGS,
WHERE lie keeps up a ibnftant ftbek Of
ten thbiifantl pieces t'orfale, comprising every
variety ot colours, and figares, ol
' the niofl modern and tasty patterns, for eve
ry part ol a house. The perfretion attained
in this manufactory, in peculiar neatness of
w&rkraa ship, dor ability of c&louri; variety
in a i(ig«j>d quality ot the paper, wiii
be found to exceed any European papers at
tlie fame moderate prices.
A 1 slegtnt variety of rich fancy fcftoon &c
narrow borders, and of stucco and other co
i jited pi'iiftfel papers.
Plain ground? "made to a*iy col ft or or/hade.
Wtiolefa-ie orders for any quantity, from
t'le country or for expol tation, executed on
a limit notice, on advantageous terms, on
u'ual credit.
In addition to the above alTos tmefttj lie has
a beautiful variety of
French paper hangings
of very fuperinr quality, (Paris mahufaftory)
with a variety of Kicb borders.
April 25 futli&s2W
JAMAICA RUM,
LANDING at Hamilton's wharf, above
tfic Drawbridge, out' of tfie ship BaCChuS
Cept. VANNiMAN, ftom Jamaica,
for sale sr
PETER BLIGHT.
May 16. d
I UNITED STATES.
PETERSBURG, May 9.
A gentleman from Savannah, informs,
I 1 hit on the 19th ult. arrived in that port,
the French privateer schooner Les Amis
Point Petre, Capt. Talbot, with a prize
I ihip of 600 tons, mounting 16 guns, and
had on board board about 150 men ; be
longing to Penfacola, said to be worth
I 12D,0c0 dollars : This is the eighth valu
able prize taken by Capt. Talbot.. The
fchoouer mounts only len four pounders,
and is said to belong to Capt. Johii Sih-
I clair, of Smithfivld.
PITTSBURGH, May, 10.
A detachment of State artillery arriv-
I ed here 011 Wednesday afternoon lall'from
Philadelphia, under tbe command, of Lt.
J. Hazlewood, on their way to Prefqu'iile,
Lt. Richard Hazlewood who IVIt com.
manded them was thrown from his hbife
I and filled, near Stratfburgh.
BALTIMORE, May 13.
Eitrafl of a letter, dated April 26, frdtn
I a gentleman in Bermuda, to MeflTs,
W. T. and Co. of this town.
" I have only to advise you that I am
hete, and hope to be so forttm?.te as to
save my (loop, after coding near five hun-
I died dollars, as every vessel and careo
here now is condemned. Here are the
brig Betsey, of Baltimote, captain Ftir
long, and schooner Thetis, captain Jones,
veflels and cai goes condemned, the own
ers obliged to paycofts, ai>d a number in
the fame predicament. If the American
merchants perlift in lending ou m rchant
men to the Weft-Indies, they will be ruin
| ed. i here are now five privateers failing
to cruize off your capes, and take every
I vessel hi den with provifiofts. They are
now taking meaflite of the brig Betsey,
to fee how many guns they can put on
I her, and I fuppoft, in list weeks, (he
will be out. In fix days from this date,
the three mill lugger,, of ten gufis, wilt
fail for our caaft. I fh&ll return from this
back to' B iltitrtore, in hopes that by jhe
time 1 arri.e, y. u will have a armed -
vessel for m
By the fchbfcner Voluptuous, Captain
I Matthew Wilforf, who arrived here last
evening, fcm St. Marks, we learn, that
on the 7th of April lift, the brig Active,
of Philadelphia, Nathaniel Gardner,
Mailer, was call away 011 the Hoodies
ivheti Capt. Gardner went on Ihore h#
had 20 paftefigers un board, men, women,
and children—they remained < n the Hog
(lies eight days after, When the rtiate
(Thomas Arnold) and two of rh: brit
hatids took to the bug bont, to seek re*
lief for their fellow fu IVr.-rs— and in ,a>
bout 27 hours after fell iii with the priva»
teer schooner Cr >uper, Captain Clarke,
belonging to New-Providence, who im
mediately went to their telief, and carri
ed therti all (except one fearmen who was
in the yawl alongfrdc which drifted from
the wreck, and was »Mt heard of after,
and one paffimger who fell overboard on •
the pafl'agif) fafe to St. Marks, where our
informant (Mr. Arnold} left them on the
20th of April,
Philadelphia.
extract.
I If the gfeat phvScal revolutions which
have overturned the globe, sometimes by
flame and sometimes by deluge—if these ter
rible catastrophes, which have caused the '
rUitt of art'eiefit natibnk, even at this dav in-
I tcreft us who are so far distant frDm a period
that is so veiled by the night of time—how
fabulous would it appear if the whole globe
once more witnefied these disastrous events ;
what powerful interefl then ought we not to
I take in the hiflory of the moral revolution
which agitates France, even to its facial
hails—a revolution ft new, so extraordinary'
in its principles, so deHruflive in ,ts efleaV,
so frightful on account of the immorality of
the fa«Sti»ns who have it to th*•freferit tune, arid which "if the 'fiufuon of ,
toiiffot, which has lately beeu ueltreyed, ;
ftiauld unhappily be loilovedby another po
litical paroxiiin; aad if nothing f*«i arrest
the progreii of diforganizatkm,. so
far advanced, it may before the fliort space
of one year, so change the face of the em
pires within the sphere of its influence, that
wc may hunt ffer one half the people of
iope, but in vain, and we Jhall not find even
the tradition of them, except in the accumu
lated ruins of i.hele vail communities.
Firth* Gaxstts of the UmitkdStates.
Mr. Fen no,
The following feikarh on the pulsations
of a certain iefcription of writers -who
• art incefftiMy laboring to mate the people
defp 'tfe theilr own govehtmettt, and plunge
themfeha into a Jlalt of nttarchy, debili
ty and tontempt, are contained, fubflan
tiallyi in a performance which lately ap
putrid in a paper publi/bed in the wef
-1 tern part of one of the eajlern Statesi—-
You will fieafr to give them a place in
in ymr paper. G.
THESE Writers impute the oppofit ion
which it made to the formation of, what
they call " Republican Societies," to the
moniedpart of the people—and to the No
bUity. Who they allude to, by the nobili
ty in this country, I cannot divine. And
who i« meant by the monied part, whtre
property is so equally divided as in Ame
rica, is inconceivable. Some of them have
Called upon the farmers, &e. to guard a
gainst these monied people- I —The fact i»»
that njoe tenths of the property of the
United States, is in the hands of the far
mers—they are called upon therefore in
this cafe to guard against themselves.—
it is said, " the only reason why the mo
tiied part of the people oppose these so
cieties is because a great many of them
have crept into offices. What.is this,
fwt a reprefentatiuflof our civil officers,
us a mercenary crey.—Obferve—" they
have crept into offices." It is a new
iflea, that our civil officers who are cbo
fen by the free fuffrages of the people,
have crept into office, i. e. got in by some
mercenary or underhand method. Not
fatijfied, however, with representing them
io this contemptible light, they are exhibi
ted as an associated band of enemies to
the people, as being jealofls lett the peo-
pie obtain political knowledge eiuiugh tu
iolpeit their wicked and inimical proceed
ings, which, they lay, " they are doubt
ful will not (land the test." What a de
t eft able abuse of our civil rulers is this ?
Have they given occasion for such black
calumny ? Can we patiently hear those
worthy char afters, whom we hive cho»
fen to tranfaft our public business, tra
duced, when, as yet, we have found no
cause of complaint in their administra
tions. These writer* Ccem to have consi
dered themselves at the head of - an armed
fa&ion, under some corrupt monarchical,
oratiflocratical government, ready to (hike
8 most fatal blow. Their language can
be.applicable in no other cafe. And can
the citizens of America endure, without
indignaiioit, such unreasonable abuse, not
only of their civil officers, but of them
selves also ? They are represented as hav
ing been so duped in giving their fuffia
goa, as that they have chosen enemies,
alfd men of the moil corrupt and aban
doned principles.
£>oes jiot the complexion of this lan-
guage too plainly manifeil the spirit by
which these societies are a (filiated ? Can
that fee a good spirit—a spirit of true li
berty which influences men to publish
such vise and slanderous libels? Rather,
is it not the spirit of anarchy, and ought
it not for the peace and happiness of so
ciety, to be fupprcfled immediately, or to
be treated with such general contempt,
as that it may fink into its deptaved in
fignificance ? It seems by the spirit of
these writers that they want nothing but
anarchy and the guillotine to have business
enough in taking off the heads of those,
whom they fay " are keeping the people
in ignorance lead: they hurl them from
their easy situations." Such writers mud
be informed that the people of this coun
try are at present unwilling to involve
themselves in anarchy and eonfufion, or
to drag, without trial, our civil rulers to
to the Place de la Revolution,—or to burn
the bible, —or to commence atheills,—or
to aboliili tin' £a\>bath ; and that there
fore their inflammatory productions are
uitfeafonable:—-Frobibly, in France such
essays might haw i. en the occasion of
cutting off'tHe heads of twenty two or
three members of the Convention, and of
eftfuri™ feats to their authors, till kno
ttier fattJon more dartng Ihould succeed
then), by publications Rill more inflam-
when their denunciations would
take place-—and thus rhe revolutionary
wheel would be kept in PEaritTUAi. mo
tion-
A REPUBLICAN.
Foreign Intelligence.
LONDON, March 4.
The elevation of count Browne de Ca
mus, to the chief command of the Impe"
rial army on the Rhine, having excited
the public curiosity, tht following parti
culars may not be unacceptable i
Descended of a very ancient family in
Scotland, count de Browne Was born in
the year 1744, at Riga, wheffc his father,
a field marshal in the service of Ruflia,
and commandant of the Province of Li
vonia, is ft ill alive. His mother is sister
to field marshal Lafey. Count Bro\#ne
pofTefles a very large fortune, which he
employs in the moll worthy manner upon
all occasions. His military knowledge
extends to every branch of the art of war,
and his attachment to the sovereign whom
he serves is not inferior to the fidelity
which his illustrious uncle, the commander
in chief, always (hewed towards the House
of Austria.
It has been said that our laws are so ad
mirably balanced, that they provide an ade
quate remedy for every injury which a man
can possibly fnftain. This axiom is ad
mirably illliftrated by the statute against
dog-stealing, where it is ena&ed, that the
pdrty offending in such a cafc, shall be
publicly whipped, but added, that if he
thinks himfelf aggrieved, he may after
wards appeal for remedy, at, the Quarter
Sessions ! !
On Thursday last, a couple being out
aflced, at St. Ann's, Soho, came to be
married, and when the clergymen came to
that part of the ceremony which dire&s
that the woman shall be supported in sick
ness and in health, the bridegroom, in a
joke, said to the clergyman, " What shall
I do with her if (he should be lame or la
zy i" Upon which the clergyman refufed
to proceed with the ceremony, and the
disappointed couple were obliged to defer
their nuptuals to a more convenient season.
adtion is unnecessary. Suffice it to fay,
that perhaps had the worthy clergyman
ex populated with the bridegroom, the un
lucky incident might have ended much
better than it did. Whether they have
since been married we cannot learn.
The accounts from Botany Bay men
tion, that the colony begins to flourifh,
through the industry of the new inhabit
ants.
A Portuguese frigate tool lately into
the port of Lisbon, from Madeira, a rich
French East Indiaman. The court of ad
miralty of Liibon has declared her a fair
prize, in consequence of the French hav
ing captured four Portuguese veflels, whiqh
they carried into the port of New-York.
Accounts from Petersburg mention,
that on the 25th of January last, the ice
of the river Neva was suddenly broken by
a violent hurricane which blew from fei.
This caused an inundation never experi
enced before in that metropolis. No ac
cident happened, on account of the inha
bitants having received notice, by a gener
al discharge of artillery.
Letters from Constantinople, inform
us, that the sublime Porte seems very much
inclined to listen to the offers made by the
rebellious Mahmoud Baftiaw ; the latter,
after having defeating the troops which
the Porte sent against him, has written a
letter to the Grand Signior full of protes
tations of fidelity and submission, offering
to pay the arrears he owed to the Ottoman
government, provided he is allowed to
continue in his situation as Bashaw.
BRISTOL, March 3.
A few days ago a pig (fed by Dr.
Warter) was killed at Siberfcot, whick
weighed 32 score 5 when alive he flood 3
feet nine inches high, and measured eight
feet in length.
DUBLIN, Feb. 25. 1
A very uncommon circumstance lap.
p«ned yesterday to the child of one Jtorke,
of Thomas-street. A boy about 7 years
of age, who had charge of an infant, went
to fifh m the Reservoir that fupplieg the
town with water. Just as the pipes were
opened, in consequence of a fire that broke
out tn Bridge-street, he happened to let
l>Ls fitter fall, who was precipitr.ted thro'
tlx; pipes, and.ivas afttially carried into the
anna of one of tlve fire men where the wa
ter had vent. The infant was apparently
dead ; but co marks having aj. peared ol
receiving any injury, except luffocatio:.,
and a surgeon in the street having treated
it accordingly, the child was rertored to
life by the means recommended to recover
drowned perlons by the Humane Society*
From the Reservoir to Bridge-lb cet is
more than an English mile.
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 17.
The Indian Chief has been captured by a
French Ihip of war, on her voyage from
England, because Ihe had a few staves on
The George Barclay escaped the fame
ate, by something lite a miracle ! During
ler voyage from Philadelphia to England,
n December last, Ihe was hailed in the Bri
ifh Channel by a French frigate. The Capt.
•xamined her manifeft, and exprefled his
"atisfaclion that several articles, which lie
enumerated, were not on board ; otherwise
he should' have been obliged to capture the
veflel. Among the reft, he mentioned staves.
There were staves in the vefffl, but they had
at firft by mistake, been forgot in making
out the manifeft, and were, after it hid been
signed, indorsed on the back of it.
This trifling mistake laved the (hip, as the
Frenchman did not think of turning to the
other fide of the paper.
A Correspondent intimates, that on the pre
sent evening in particular, it may not be
improper to communicate what follows -
Extradt from an address to the Deity, de
livered by Dr. Magaw, on Wednesday
last, at the close of an examination and
other exercises of the " Young-Lafliej
Academy of Philadelphia."
IT is thy inspiration, Father of Lights !
''that giveth understanding, aad opencth the
fountains of wisdom : How excellent is
thy name in all the world ! We praise
thee ; we bless thee ; we worlhip thee ;
we glorify thee ; we give thanks unto
thee!
Here, and in every place, where the
intelle&ual culture, united with the vir
tues of the heart, are the Learner's ob
ject, and the Instructor's care,—to thee
we can look with a religious confidence,
I, Knowing; O Lord, that whomsoever
thou bleffeft, they are blefled indeed we
commend to thy special favor, these our
beloved Daughters : Thine they are, most
bounteous Maker! Thine they are, re
deeming God!— With that unfeigned .ten
derness which is of thy bestowing, and
that solicitude which thou wilt not def
pifc, may we be permited to a(k,
That it may please thee, to endue them
with a fubJimc sense of thy perfe&i
ons, and an unalterable love of thy ho
ly name:
That it may please thee, to encteafe their
inclination and pursuits after valuable
learning; and to direst them in its
uses, and proper application ;
That it may please thee to bless them
with the diftmguithing felicities of
their youth ; defending them withal,
from its peculiar temptations and dan-
gers :
That it may please thee, to afiift, and di
rest them by thy grace, so that none of
them may cost a Parent, one tear;
nor a friend, a fmgle sigh—unless it
may be the sigh at parting—or the
tear which doth not interfere with joy :
That it may please thee, to adorn them
with that discretion now, that meek
ness, that goodneis, and inflexible in
tegrity, which will insure to them ref
ped and confldcnce, to the end of
their days;
That it may please thee, to confirm them
aU . the habits, and richeit consolati
ons of piety and virtue !
By the remembrance of thy pa st good
nek ; by the hopes which thy promis
es uifpire ; by Hie mutuality of affetti
oo, which, we believe, subsists between
these Children and us—we beseech
ttiC€ to hear üb,ub, O Lord !
Finally, thou infinite guardian and friend ■
taKe us all under thy divine protedion !
Be thou the saviour of the land we live
m! the infpirer of tiiofe who counsel t
the ftrengthener of those who !
the intlrudor of those who teach ; aud
the encouijager of those ivho learn ;
till fafctyi freedom, science, jjure reli
gion, -M its Offspring, happinels, (hall
be eilablilhed on everlatting fbundnti
ons, through Jesus Christ, our bWffed
Mediator!
ILxtraSl from the slibuny Gazette.
A short sketch of the debates in the house
or representatives, the latter end cf last
month (which appear in some of the late
newspapers J in of some com
munications of the depredations of the Bri
tifli cruisers on the commerce and navigation
of the United States, gives us a picture of so
much warmth, passion and intemperance
that it ieems nothing short of an immediate
declaration of war against that power, will
abate the. rage of certain trading gentlemen,
members of that house.
Then huzza for speculation, privateering
•ind the acquirement of monstrous fortune
by a hop, step and jump : but these fiuious'
gentlemen ought to be apprised, that forcine
the country into a war with such violent
precipitation, is no way to command, (what
must be deemed very efll-mial) the fuppVt
of the great body of the people.
Nor is it probable, that Britain as a nation
can be very desirous of a rupture with this
country at present.
She has full tmploy in her war with
France, and I am therefore of opinion, that
with suitable negociatioii, reparation may
yet be obtained • and the calamities these
gentlemen wiftt so haitily to plunge us into
ivoided.
Every country on going to war, hath ee
nerally some advantage in profpeft to be de
rived, as a compensation for its loft of blood
and treasure, and the devastation she mull
experience in its progreft; but in the name
of health, let me alk, What are we to gain >
Have we a fleet to enrich ourselves bv clo
tures at sea ? Are the United States in want
of territoi y ? Canada, and the beggarly pro
vince of Nova Scotia, both a great incum
brance to and *which she Would be
glad to be rid of, can be the only objects of
our conquest, and are they worth possessing
after we get them: Hence it follows, that
for the gratification of certain favorite filer*
chants, who have sustained lofles by the Bri
tifli cmizers, when at the fame time, we
have property in our hands of perhaps twen
ty times the amount of their losses, belong
ing to the fubjetfs of Britain ; this great ex
tensive but defienctiffs republic, is to be hur
ried into a war, which if instantly gone into,
will be justly entitlcd'tg the appellation of the
Merchants luar: howevt., the farmers by
a land tax, wili have to bear the great bur
-ihetl of tbe enprX\rp in' rarryinff rtn
To conclude, -God forbid that these Uni
ted States fliould follow the ridiculous fop
pery of the nations of Europe, in going to
war upon the moil trifling and frivolous pre
tences.
A war therefore, of this nature not hav
ing either the honor, the happi ß efs or the
glory of the United States for its object, will
not meet with the approbation of
An Otfrgo F irmtr.
Otfego county, tgth April, 1794.
EXTRACT-
Frcquentlya preamble is affixed tohwj,
which gives the reason of enabling them;
to this adi £the Embargo RefolitJthere
is no preamble—lf there was, and the rea
son of palling the ast was what had been
cotiGdercd, it would read thus: " Where
as the owners of ships, seamen, merchants,
and those coiicerncd in insuring property
at sea, have become so infatuated with
fa lie prufpefts of gain, and so blinded to
their own inter eft and fafety, that they fub
je& their perfous and their estates to haz
ard* and lofies, incoufiftent with prudence,
and which no citizcn has a ntfht to when
it is confdcrjd that the loss of each indi
vidual is a los to the country at large ; and
whereas Congrcfs, moved with pity and
compassion for their blindness and perverfe
nefs, and feeing their inability any longer
to regulate their affairs, and sensible that it
is better that the aforcfaid defcriptioos <jf
citizens (hnuld be subjected to idlencfs; the
produce of the country to loss for want of
a market, than they permitted to progre:*
in their mad career, of fending their per
sons and property abroad, do enadt that
an embargo &c. See."
Such a preamble would hardly comport
with the wisdom of Congress, or the feel
ings of the citizens. If the motives that
produced this ast be what some have pre
tended, this preamble would do no moifl
then state the truth to the world—we
ought therefore to impute it* origin to
other caufcs.
It was stated in yefterdav's Garette, that
the bill providing for the payment of inter-;
eft on the balances due to several of the State*
on the sinai filtleijunt of accounts betwef
the United States and individual States, had
pafled the House of Representatives.
This fcufinefs has mgoffed a ecnliderabV i
portion of the time of the Hp-fe— gr
it appears that the ohje" was cTen:iilly re
c opt: zed by a law paflfed at the lalt feflion
Of Congreft. In the course of difeu fling the
fubjeift, fundrv amendments wi!rc proposed ;
among others it was nuved ta, exonerate
the Debtor States from any obligation to
cifcharge the balancej refpc<stively reported
]by the Comnvffioners as due from them;
this motion was, after lome. deba:e. nega
tive—si to 13 —Another proposed amend
nundment was, that the payment ot the 111-
tci-clt On fald balances, cui of the laid funds,
cease and deteini: 11- aft* the year 1798, and
that thereafter the balances due from certain
fcates as reported by the COl uu.i iione rs, be
appropriated to the payment of the princi
pal and Interest of the balances due to said
llate»; this amendment wis lost —60 to 17—
cq the queCton lor engrolTing, yeas 51, nays
17—A motion that it be read the third time,
on the ift October, was,negatived, 51 to 33.
The bill provides that intL-refl be allowed
from the last day of December 1789, and
to be computed to the last day ot December
1794, at the rate of 4 per cent, per annum;
the amount of such interest to be placed to
the credit of the Hate to which the fame
foall be found due upon the books of the '
'J reafurv of the United States, and (hall
bear an' interest of 3 per cent, per annum
froth and after the fa id last day of Decem
- 1794 —the said interest to be paid quarter
yearly, at the refpedtive loan offices ; the
iirft payment to be made oh the last day of
March 1795— To be paid out of the duties
oa imports and tonnage, not heretofore ap
propriated; and the .aith of the United
States i« pl-.dged to provide for any deficien
cy that may happen; by such additional
and permanent funds as may be ncceflary
therefor.
From the Augnjla Chronicle.
From the manoeuvre and heat which
took place last Saturday, to pass the ref
lations which appeared in the second page
of the last Southern Centinel, and to sup
press, even the reading of those, which
are inserted immediately after, in the fame
paper, I conceived that the latter mull
have, at lea ft, favoured of pufilanimlty,
or. that, at least, they must have been of
a very milky texture ; —but, on peruful, J
v. : a much furprifedtofind, that thejfyle is
the only material difference between the
two, and, that to convey the sentiments
of the neighborhood in the most violent
and {trained language, in preference to a
firm and decent expression, was the great
bone of contention. For although, at
firft fight, it may appear, that the feature
of the one is war, and of the other,
peace ; vet, when wrttdveiTTß llif con
ditions in the latter, that peace was not
hoped or wished for, but on honorallc
terms, and conlider, that these terms, be
ing undefined and left to the judgment of
that body, who only of right, can judge
of them ; I fay, they would have included
the very object So zealously prefTed by the
majority, I mean, " the withdrawing of
the Britifli fleets and armies from molest
ing the Republic of France as th» price of
peace; if, luch a measure (hould be con
templated by the Congress of the United
States in the fame point of view as by
the fticklcrs for-this implied umpirage,
■ —whether it is. or not, the du
ty of that body, so to consider it, we
shall for the present, leave to the bold dis
quisitions of bold politicians; and only
observe that it is a kind of language
which no modern power is in the habit
of •using, except the Czars or Czarinas of
all the Russias: As to the sequestration
clause which blends the situation of those
who have fled to this country as an asy
lum, and are not, nor cannot, until a
certain d finite probation, become citizens,
with that of Britith citizens and residents
having property or debts in this country ;
—for the honor of humanity, I will not
conclude, that any opposition would have
been made to that discriminatory provi
sion in the resolves, (prevented from be
ing brought into view on the day of dif
culTion,) which draws a proper diltinc
tien between persons in these different
predicaments.
In as much as the purpose of meeting
was to express the general opinion on the
present crisis of affairs, I cannot compre
hend the applicability of resorting to the
recapitulation of grievances which do not
concern ue, much less to give the firft
place in the lift of political crimes to the
naval and military preparations" of the
Britilh nation. From the general maxim
that the over-violent are always fufpe&ed,
I am puzzled to find out the policy in this
instance (where ftifpicion with refpeel to
many of the charafilers concerned, cannot
possibly obtain J of framing their opinions
in fach a manner as rather to resemble the
(hallow fubterfuge of that vociferous de
clamation which is often adopted by du-
plicity,. than the raw!)' and .canJid lir.ti
tnents of fineere patriotism.
•BENVOLIO. -
FROM THE CENTJN^L.
THE INS and OUTS.
Mr. Russell,
THE outs of .England never were i.iore
iiuliifliious to fifed! changes . : n their v.rn
ment than the ouis of the United .jiales
have been assiduous to get /V -evt . the
expenfeof the Peace Happ:«ief» ;ird r'r;<f;.er
ity of the Union. Dilcipl.s of ;vL: h.fvel,
they deem any-meafure right, tin. tficds
their end. Hence the itieams of abuse,,
which have (°. r .years flowed so
from certain fout;ce6.to overwhelm tht- jK
putation of every administrator of the Fe
deral Government, chosen by the people,
from the downwards.—
Hence too the rapid circulation of cabal and
falfeintelligence—declamation and bellow
ing—to warp the mmds of the people from
the pursuit of the things which lead to
their felicity. But in almost every event,
good rises out of evil: The party have
of far the " mantle" which cover
ed its deformity, that the " cloven foot"
has been discovered ;andthepeople,-convin
cedofthe" nature ofthebeaft," have been
on their guard agai ift its machinations.—
The party appeared envious of the grow
ing prosperity of the country —and as a war
they knew will prove its deltruftiori—all
theirarts and intrigues have tended to that
point. In this, under guise of high-mind
ed patriotism, they have effe£hial'y copied
the -wiles of Manarchs—who wlkh a na
tion grows so rich as " waxing fat to tick ; v
they conjure lip a war. What fays that
enemy to the arts of King craft, Dr. Wal
cott ? In some late pathetic Odes, he touch
es, in his way, on the fubjeft of this para
graph ; and thus emphatically prays :
And now God blefi once more good
Mister Pitt,
Who for invention beats nineteen in
twenty ;
And may this gentleman's mod ready
wit
Supply the nation all with taxes plenty ;
And as the kingdom has unclench'd its
fid,
Pick out a few odd pence for Civil Lift.
We are too rich—Dame Fortune
grows too fancy;
Wealth is inclin'd to Tie tonfounded
brafy-
War is a wholesome blister for the back;
Drawing away the humours all so
grq/if.
Else would the Empire be of gutg a
fact—. '
A FalltafF—woolfack—an unwieldly
Joss.
War yieldeth such rare spirits to a na
tion !
Giving the blood so briflc a circulation
A kingdom, and a poet, and a cat,
Should never, never, never be too fat.
Though there is much levity in the a
bovc extract, therfc is much truth and po
litical moral ty in it.
FEDERAL.
i
i . . '-vV
By this Day's Mail.
BALTIMORE, May 15.
Yesterday morning arrived here, the ship
Chefapeak, Captain William Wife in 52
days from Amsterdam. On the 22d of
March, off the Goodwin Sands, Capt.
W. was boarded by an English frigate,
who previous to the boardiug of him, fired
several Ihot, and caried away part of "his
stern ; the only rcafon given for firing so
often was, that Capt. W. did not round
too in an instant; the Chefapeak was go
ing at that time at the rate of 12 knots.
The firft Lieutenant came on board, and
after examining Capt. Wife'* papers, dif
mirted him, wilhing him a fafe passage
The Lieutenant informed Capt. W. that
war would shortly be declared against the
Danes—and not any neutral vessel was per
mitted to pass the Downs, without under
going an examination, and if any part is
provisions, they are taken into England.
On the 26th of March, Capt. W. was
boarded by the Thames (French) frigate,
who had been from Brsft 20 days, mid
had with her at that time 10 prizes, chief
ly laden with provisions, and weie all
standing in for Brest, and as they were
favored with a fair breeze for three days
after, Capt. Wife, makes no doubt of
their fafe arrival at Bred—the lieutenant
of the Thames informed Capt. W. that
,j tJie.'e Were 4 French frigates e ruffing for
! a fleet of 60 fail of Englifli merchant
men, that were coming round the Lands
end, bound up the channel, which they
exp.cteJ to fall in with that night—he
likewise informed Captain W. that the
Fiench were every where fuceefsful—and
provl'ions were plenty—Capt. Wife fur
ther informs 113 that there was not an
English cruifcr to h ■ seen in the channel
below Dover—but tk t they were in a
manner, furroimdecj b/ the French.
Yesterday arrived in 29daysjfrom Mont
ferrat, the brig Success, captain Beard.
Tjic Succrfs in her paflage from Guada
lotTpc to Baltimore, was captured by a
Bfitifh privateer and carried into Mont
ferrat, but liberated after paying costs.—
O 1 the 12th and 14th of April about xi
fa.l of American vefTels were liberated at
Moatferrat. Americans were liberating
at St. Kitts, Dominica, and Antigua, un
der the order from the court of St. James's
of the Bth of January ; the judge of the
admiralty paying no attention to admiral
Jervis's declaration of the Frcneh i(lands
being in a state of blockade, since his ar
rival 11 the Weft Indies.
By a letter, dated Montferrat, April
15, we learn, that Mr. Burke, folicitor
general of Antigua, wrote a very severe
letter to the king's council on the fubjedl
of liberating American veflels,, which had
such a powerful effe£t on the judge, that
he liberated every American veflel in the
port which came under the older of the
Bth of January.
Ycftfrday evening arrived, ih 15 days
from Havanna, the (hip Citizen, Captain
Cunningham—By this veflel we learn,,
that a Spanish fleet of merchantmen, chief
ly laden with sugar, was expected to fail
from that port for old Spain in about fix
days after her departure, under a convoy
of two letters of marque—and that an
embargo took place on the 30th Ult.
Capt. Buck, who came pafienger in the
Citizen, was carried into the Havanna,
and his cargo condemned while in con
finement. A Captain from Philadelphia
and another from New-York met with
similar treatment. Captain Cunningham
spoke a veflel from Jamaica, the master
of which informed him, that American
beef fold at 30 dollars per barrel in that
i(land.
b-fes,, -•■„ JJQRFOT.K. Mty 8.
ARRIVED.
Ship Martin, Watson, London
Schooner Dolphin, Hammond, Bermuda
Johanna, Ballard, St. Euftatia
Porcupine, Barron, St. Euftatia
Brig Favorite, Hubert, Jersey
• /
IVe art but Strangers and Pilgrim.
THE spring of life allures the trav'leron
With a gay landscape and a flow'ry
: scene ;
The op'ning rose and the enamell'd lawn,
And thorn and briar from his vision
screen.
fsitna. . ' '~
5-, '(
Now in astonishment he ftarcs—amaz'd
To fee how soon life's longed journey's
past;
How soon th' immeasurable fifld is graz'd,
And that his next progreflion is his last.
Now contemplation in himfelf begins ;
Now he arranges matters all anew ;
Repents liis former complicated fins—
And ere he puts in practice—bids a
dieu.
A STRANGER.
-itfburgh and Fal
mouth, Virginia,
, The Schooner
FRIENDSHIP,
Capt. M'Namara.
Will fail on WtDNEsDAI' next. Forfreigh
or paiTage apply 10 the Mailer on board, at
JOHN WALN's Wharf, or
EMANUEL WALKER,
WHO HAS FOR SALE
The Cargo of/aid Vejfel—Conjtjlinr of
VIRGINIA WHEAT,
FLOUK,
DEER SKINS, kc.
GINSENG
M»y 17. (I 4:.
; m .'i <
Extra ft from t!ie Alexandria
O»2ottt. '
" Wlien I recollcft what immense por
tions oi Bp'tifh capita], till the late inter
ruption of our commerce, were daily sent
to be veiled in the vacant lands of this
country, and other important and perma
nent improvements: when I recoiled ho\v
many of the fubjefts of his Britannic ma
jesty, were not only fending their money
to add to the riches, but comiog tliemfelvei
to encreafe the number and fores of the
United States. I recoiled! a commerce
which was peacibly and patiently under
mining the strength of the British empire,
and railing our own on its ruins.
" The wealth accumulated by their a
mazing industry, and commerce seemed
destined to improve and aggrandize the
United States. Under such circumflan
ces, if we consulted our revenge only, we
ought to desire nothing but peace, and
the commerce we lately enjoyed. The
truth is, time fights for us. Time fights
against them. If. we will ttuft to time,
we lhall find him a powerful friend, who
will render us conqucrors—rich conquer
ort. .
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Ship Dispatch, Newell, Bengal, 5 months.
CLEARED.
Schr. L'Amiable, j Gintille Balinque, port a
Paix
Sarah and Rebecca, Hill, Virginm
Sloop Diana, Washington
Two Brothers, Blift, ' New-Port
*
Arrived at New Tori, Ma} 16.
Brig Boon, Brown, Havre de Grace
Nancy, Bernard, Faulkland Ifl.
Dr. Moore's Journal in France,
VOLUME 2d.
This Day is publijhed,
Price 6-,. ftitcheu, a< d 7/6 nra lv bound, by
H. & P. R I c E,
Book/eilcrs, No. 50, Market Jireet,
A Journal during a refidenee in France >
from the begifluing of August to the middle of
December 179 a ;To which is added, an ac
count of the .tioft renmkable events thai
happened at Parii, from that time to the deatl
of the late- King of France.
By JOHN MOORE, D. D.
May 17
NEW THEATRE.
Mr. Fennell's Night.
On MONDAY EVENING,
May 19.
Will be performed,
?or the firll time here, an Hiitorical Play,
called the
Surrender of Calais,
O R,
GALLIC PATRIOTISM.
Written by George Colman, jun. Esq.
King Edward, Mr. Moretoi
Sir Walter Mr. Warreli
Ribemont, Mr. Fennell
La Gloire, Mr.Bates
Eustace de Saint Pierre, Mr. Whitlock
John De Vienne, Mr. Green
Citizens, Meflrs. Finch, Francis, &
Morris
m Mr. De Moulin
Mr. WigneU
Mr. Marihall
Mr. Bliflett
Mr. Cleveland
Mr. HarwoOd
Mr. Darley jun
"* 01
Old Man,
Serjeant,
O'Carrol,
Crier,
John D'Aire,
ift Gallows-maker,
2d ditto.
Queen, Mrs. Shaw
Madelon, Mrs. Marshall
Julia, Mrs. Francis
In AS 2d, a ProccJJion and Solemn Dirge.
Thr Vocal Parts by Meflrs. Darley, WarreH,
Darley, jun. Lee, Bason, Rowfon, Shaw,
Mrs. Warrell, Mils Broadhurft, Mrs. Row
fon, ,Mcs. Bate , Miss Willems, and Mrs.
Oldmixon.
• To which will be added,
A FARCE, in two Atfs, called
THE SULTAN;
Or, A Peep into the Seraglio.
Soliman, Mr. Moreton.
Xmyn, Mr. Harwood.
T>l : " ' * * T? •
£lmira, Mrs. Francis.
Ifmene, (<witb SongsJ Miss Broadhurft.
luiihSongr yMrs.OldraixOn.
tVith a CharaßeriJiit Dance, cempofed li
Mr. Francis.
m
Tickets to be had of Mr. FENNELL,
the Corner of 4th and Mulbery fireetf, and
at the Office of the Theatre.
On Wednesday, a COMEDY Called
NOTORIETr, with a PANTOMIME
ENTERTAINMENT, for the Benefit of
Mr. CHALMERS.
Cj" Mr. BATES' £ right will fa en
FRIDAY.
*•' f-NANtCEENS.
Nankeens of Superior Ratify,
FOR SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April 21. mw&ftf
~S~ H 0 E S.
A quantity of stout well made Men's size
SHOES, adapted tor t.ie Southern market, for
sale at
No. 36, North Third Jlreet.
May ft mvy&fiot
Lately Publilhed.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
• No. 41, South Second-Street :
THE Hrttory of NeXV/Hj'mxftii'e, fiom the
D«fco« 1 ' v of 1 he R ver P'foatnqua—by Je
remiah Belknap. D. D. 3 Vols. Price in hoards,
4 1-2 Dt>»la.rs.
The Forrefttjr. au American Fable, being a
Sequel «') the Hilkory of John &illl fht Clothier.
Prcc, 75 Cents.
A DifcouiTe, intendrd to commemorate the
Diicovery of America by Chriftophcr Colum
bus; delivered at the request ol the Hiitorical
Sbci£ty in Maffachufctts, O'tt-rbcr 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Thud Gerriuvy,
since that memorable event. To which are
added, Four Diflenatioru, connected with the
fubjelt—By the fame author. ?i Ce, 50 Cen;s.
March 1 7. luih&fy v
A New Novel.
To the LADIES of TMiiladelphia.
This Day is Pvibltfhea by
MATHEW CAREY,
JlB, Market flrtret,
Price, bound, hve-eiflh rU; of ,< dollar, sewed
in <•- aible paper, lirrli a dollar/
Charloft'e, a tale of Truth,
IN TV'O VOLUMES.
By Mrs. tie New Theatre,
Phladelphia, Author of Victoria, the In
quisitor, toe l^ N i : )e de Chunib e, Ac.
Of Charlottes tht Rtvx-tvc'rs have given
the following char After,
IT may. be'a Ta-<m»! Truth, tor it is not
mmutnrrt, amVTtTs "a talc of ica'diftrefs.—
CiVn lotre, by, the artUice of ,> teacher, recom
mended to ;i from tinnranity rnther
than a couvittion of her integrity, or the re
gularity of her former conduit, is enticed
fi.Oin hi r goyeri cf., ai d accompanies a young
Vncer to America.—The tnarri< r ge cerenfo
ny, it' not forgotten, is postponed, and Char
lotte dfes a martyr to the tneonihncy of the
otter, tind treachery ot hTs friend —Trie'fitu-
tious areartlefs aud'aftAinp—;ii£ defcrip
atious uatiiVal arid pathetic ; we should fee
for Charlotte if such a perfou ever existed,
who tor one fearer lv, perhaps, defcrved
sb %e-c a punifhnvetif. If it 1V ;t ftftfoh, j
poetic justice is not, we think, properly dil
tributed
, Said Carey has jvft pu&lr/h.u!,
A 2 sheet map of Kentucky
compiled by Eiihu Baikei, price one dollar
and two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Gerfnany, Spa n,ltaly, the United Provinces,
the Netherlands, and the Welt ladies. Price
two dollar-;.
Map of Mew Jersey—Hals a (lofla'V.
Map ol'Ve mont, Conne&icut, Delaware,
Georgia t'rice three eijhtlU of a ddllui
eaili.,
Apflt 29. tuth'&sjw
Concluding Safes.
THE Sub'crib r having entered into Co
partncrJh p with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the bufin*»fs of Sugar itefining, will difpofc
of the
Remaining Stock on band
CONSISTING" OF
Silver, Plated, & japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By Wtnlejbii at Prime Cojl for Cajb.
John dor fey,
No. 22, North 3d ft'reet.
AffHl 1 , tnlh'Sc' 6w
, MAD£JKA»
SHEk KY,
•POR 1% WINES of the fifft quality
LISBON, «5c
teneriffe
OH (amitca Spirit, Antigua Weft India
Rum.
Coniac 9 French and Peach Brandies
Claret aud Pott Wine of a superior quality
in cases.
Win* Cjder and Vinegar, in.pipes aodlihds.
Corks in Bales, Havannah Segars in Boxes.
Philadelphia Porter, it» Calks and Bottles.
London do. in do. do. " ,
Philadelphia Ale and Beer in do. do.
London do. in do. do. and
Cyder :n barrels and bottles, prep* red for ex
portation or immediate use,
FOR SALE BY
Benjamin \V- Moris,
IK turner of Doci and Pearfimrti,
W ere be has yro»i ed I'oicab,- ttores and
Wjiu'is, for reoeptior. of
WIN ES, &C.
Mtiicb hepr opofes to ttore or dilpoie of on
comnna
Caauinsof veffei; and o»berjfuppli,d»ith
any of the abo \e L QUOHS bott id,
ttores in jeue si pw. op.
May 9
%
To bd Let,
Fur Merchants Compting Houfts or Public
Offices,
Two briek 3 Itory Houses,
HAVING 6 loim ■ :n C.C.I, wn h fireplaces
belide frUate on the south wcllerlyfide
of Duck ftrcet, between Pear and Walnut
ltieeis. Enquire <it
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
April 17. tuth&stf
ADVERTISEMENT.
OF the money robbed from the mail near
Bakimor**, by Doctor Gant, no dollars were
afterwards Tent by an unknown hand, to the
PoftmaCter at Baltimore, who transmitted
the lame to the General Post Office. The Of
ferers By that robbery arc desired to state the
amount of their loffcs respectively, and trans
mit the fame, with tiie original letters of their
corrffpandents (w fie re recovered) or other
evidence thereof to rfte General Post Office,
before the firll day ot' Junfc next, immediate
ly afier which a dividend will bfe made among
the claimants.
TIMOTHT PICKERING,
Pop Majier General.
Gen. Post Office, Apr:! 4/1794 iaw6\v
To the Ele&ors of the city and
county of Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
THIS ne'mg tile Tart year of the present
Sheriff's time in office. I take the liber
ty to offer niVlerf a Candidate, and solicit
v6ur votes and interests in my favor, to piare
me on the return at tiie-next general Elefton,
as his fucceflnr-'forTaid office ; in doing which,
you wtH co'nfbr an obligation that will be
gratetuHy rem rib' red, by*
Your most o->edienr,
and '
john baker.
May 3. est/.
Just Imported,
In the Jhtp Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peterjburgb in liujia, and now landing at
Russell's <wharf,
HliVI P,
JfAK IRON,
RUSSIA SHI RTINGS,
RAVKNS ICK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And for file at the llores of the fubferiber in
Walnut ftreH, '8
John Donnaldfon.
April 4. diw YY& ti
JUST PUBLISHED,
TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
No. 41, Joutb Second flreety
Jlxtrafc rtf a Ip'fr from a gen.
jtleman in America to a inend in England, on
the Subject ot' Emigration—price 1 Bth of a
dollar.
Ecclifiajlical EJlablijbments detrimental to
a Stdle.
Price 1-8 ofa Dollar.
] April 22-. mw&tyv
JUST PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOBSON,
iicijeller, at the Stone House in SecoudJlreet,
PbilatietptJta,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPAEDIA,
OR A
Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, aud Miscel
laneous Literature,
ON a plan entirely new ; by wnich the d 1
lerent sciences and arts are digested into th.
form ot diltincl treatiles or lyitems. Tbi
voluhie contains the aitichs, medals, nuil
cine, metallurgy, metapbyiics, metbodilts,
Mexico, nucioicope, inidwit.y, and s great
variety ot biographical and nnicellaneous ar
tides, tl'uftra-ted with nineteen copperplates".
C-J The tables ot" logarithms, fee. which
were deficient in the tenth volume, are sub
joined to this:
Eleven volumesof this work are now pub
lilWd, and tne Xllth is in lome forwardnels.
On the firft-of September, 1791, the puce
"f lubfcription was increased TiN dollars on
all fe'ts not taken before tliat time. The ftib
icription isilill open on thele terms, and it
any copies remain by the firil of July next,the
p; ice >ivili be railed TEN dollars more, on
any copies wTnchtnay be fubferibe'd for after
>h*t period.
*,* As many oJ the fubferibert have taken
only two, three or four, Sic. volumes, ihey are
earaeftly requested to take up and pay for the
reraaiamg volumes, as it becomes difficult to
complete the setts, and the pubhCher doe. not
hoid himieit bouud to make up any setts after
tiie firft day ol' Julvnext.
A P''» ' mfcttfew.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edzuard, Capt. Crandon, frdtri
St. Peterlburg in Russia,
And now landing at ScmtWbeet Wharf, viz.
Hemp, '
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 21, Walnut-ftrert.
" arc ® 4j 1794* diwjtawtf
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
several of tahiTh ha ve appeared in circulation
» quit bin a feiu days pafl; they are a good ge
e neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
11 be dijlinguijhed by the following
MARKS.
— jFive Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared havs the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
Q The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
r. the genuine paper.
The O. m the word Company is frfialler
( e than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M. would extend con
fideiably above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
® The i and fin the word promise are not
parallel, the y'inclining much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly cxecuted,the strokes
iV of all the Letters are Wronger and the device
in the margin particularly is much coarfcr and
J appears darker than in the true bills. Some
ol the counterfeits bear date in 1-91—Where
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and 110 five dollar bills were illued in
t ihat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
t America.
e ALL that have appeared have the letter
, B tor then alphabetical inai k.
'» Tiiey are printed on a puper neatly fimilav
e to that of the counterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above defenbed ; the engraving is bote* £xe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Tnen
(v, in the body of the bill, are in number thir
teen in the genuine bi]U s and but twelve in
the counterfeit *.
The \void Company is much like the fame
/ word in the Five Dollar bills «.s defer ibed a
t bove, the 0 being ieis than the m, and others
following.
There is no stroke to the t in the word Forth
whereas in the genuine bill's the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word la'W/j, to the
left hand at the bottom, do no: come down to
1 the line, but are so cut-as to give an irregular
appearance to the word,,the Jui and ihej- go
ing below them.
The signature |. Nixon, has the appear
ance of Ining written with lamb-black and
01, and d liters troth other inks uicd in
printing the bills and the cashier's signature.
It ivfuppofed thefc forgeries weie committed
in 10me of th« Southern btates, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come from
thence, and two peifons nave been apptehend
' err ii» Virgmid, un fafptiuu us tKe •uiho* -
1 of" fhem.
1 The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Peilon or Perfooa wtio ihml
dilcovei and piolecute to conviction the ievtial
offenders of the following de'fi iptions or any
of them, viz.
The peiTon or p.rfons, wlio manufactured
the paper on which the Bills ate pnmed.
The peHon or peilons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of thr bills.
tver\ perlon who has acted as a principal in
> any orfici way, in the countcrlcaing and utter
tug tiie fa id bills. '
Philadelphia, iMarch 28. 1794
■dpril 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of .he Batik ui the Unutd urates nave appealed
1 circulation.
The denomination is os-TWENTY d6l
LARS,and the alphabetical maik is H.e let
ter B
riiey ma? be dillinguiflied from ine genu
, lnc b » the lot.owing MaKKS :
The paper ol ihe counterfeits is of a more
tendt 1 texture andgiolTev furface than ihe
genuine, and there is 110 water mark ill them.
1 Tte letter C. in the word Ca&ier, iii ihe
true bills: is strongly Marked,' whereas in the
counterfeits, the wiiole letter it a fine hair
troke, evidently in an unfinifhed liate. The
C^ er "i a * n * ort^ demand, is badly lormed
an t.ie whole word ill done, ana there is 110
1 com ® a at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
, The marginal device, is much da.ker in
rl? (u I' !^ a " — genuine bills owing to
' 6 6 es Wng coariei, much nearer
Ogether, and conlequently. much more nu
"™s' Thls difference ft. ikes the eye at fir it
' «*.!"' rc,vard °l' ONE THOUSAND
. "Ui-LAKS, will be paid for ic
' t0 co " vi<ftio " the leveral ai»ve
; tIT* 5 otfenders -e>pea to this, as to
the laUdefchbed bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Piefideot
ol the Bank United Stairs.
JOHN* NIXON, Piriideiit of the
Bank ot North America.
By order of the Committee* of the Ref
plfllve Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
TS T an eligible titration,—alio a Cotmtry Seat
7 !hin 6 of the City, tritb 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres ot land and meadow, the
House »s not exceeded bvinany in the vicinity
ot the city, in lize, or convenience.
• For particulars apply to Ihe pY&ter;
m&tbtf
.. , \ >
Beef, Pork, and Butter.
BEEF, prime and cargo ot good quality >
PORK, prime and cargo of do-
BURLING ton pork
BUTTER, iu : rkins
ALSO,
A CARGO OF
mjhogjnt
Landing at John Weft', Lumber Yard, „,, r
Pool s Bndg , from on board the Faj, Amen
can, from chc Bav of Honduras a.d
3000 bushels of Good Wheat,
for sale by
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 3J, No. Water Street.
a..,
Just Publifted,
A one handsome volume, i 2 mo. p r j ce ■
and For sale by
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Chcfuut
StreH,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men
On the Rights that result From It, a*l on 'he
■Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by tlic
society at Haarlem.
Cor retted and Enlarged*
By \\ ILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN
1). D. '
Profeffi.r of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
of Nature, and of Ecclesiastical Hi (lory •
and Minister of the Englifli Clmich at V.
trecbt.
Aliquid semper ad communtm utilitatem af
terenotim. Cicero
The Firji American Edition.
principle of Kquality, ki right-
X IV understood, i s tl.c only bafri on which
justice, lacred „ der, and perfect
bu!lt . ai d permanent
ly secured The view of it exhibited in this
ITay, at the fan, e time that it repress the
insolence ot ofoce, the tyranny ofp. de, and
the outrages ot -ppreffi,,,, ; co.si m,., in the
mod forcible manner, the ueceflirv of fubor
di nation, and the juit demands of lawful au
tltorityi So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of foc.ety, that it maintain,inviolate-,
every natural and every civil d.ltinftion,
draws more Closely every social tie, unites in
one harmonious and jultly proportioned fyf.
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human ra
lure, ot reciprocal obi: ation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March '8- tmf
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representatives,
rTHRinT . DiCj M gt i, 2J f1^ 7 3 3 k
\/l/HERt,Aa lh * Commiflioners of public f
V V Accounts, have reported, that they can
not proceed ro the in eftigation ot ine Treasury
Accounts, reipe&ing lp cial lndenis, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation Tl»erefore,
R(folvcd % That ail holders of fpec-al ludents
be dt» e&ed, and required, on or before the firft
d »y of Novc mber n xt, to deliver the special In
dents 111 then poireflion ro one or other of the
Comrniflloners of the Trfatury, who are tp give
r ceiots tor the fitne, and to rep »rt to tbeCom
m Ifioriers on public accounts, on or before the
tenih day of November next, the amount by 1
nerv relpc&tvely received, and also 10 ine Le
{larure, at their meeting tn November next,
and that all special Indents not lendeied into
the Treasury a.< above, on or before the 6rft day
oi November next, ihall be, and the fame ere
hereby barred.
Rejclved, That public nottceof this refolotion
be given in the several Gazettes in this Statej
once every three weeks, the fiift day of
November next. And »hat the Delegates of this
State in the Congiefs ol the Uuited States, be re
queued to caufc this rHoiption to be pubitfned
in one or m»»e papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for the expeuces attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
•Senate tor their concurrence.
Bv Mrderof the House,
JOHN iANhORD DART, C H. R.
In the SENATE,
December sift y b
Refolvcd, Tha' this House do concur with the
Houle ot Representatives in the foregoing reso
lution
Ordered, That the resolutions be lent to the
House ot Representatives.
bv order of tb? Senate,
FELIX VVARLEY, Clerk.
ewi ?Cov.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, YVail-ftreet, Niw.York
THE Suofcrtbei intending te confine h'rofelf
entirety to the PURCHASE &: SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b.gs leave toof
t r his services to ins triendsand others, io the
line ot a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their bufincfs, may depend
upon having it traofaded with the u.rnoii hde
lity and oifpaich.
Orders Iron Philadelphia, Boftcn, or any
otbtr part ot the Üb»led Srate' t will be ftrtdly
attended to. LEONARD ttLEECKER*
m&tbU
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No J
South F.j-urth-Strcet. |
(V :S