EVENING AD VEKTISER.
[No. 127 of Vol. V.] Saturday, May 10, 17514. [Whole No. 523 ]
, For Baltimore,
BALTIMORE,
jrtßitv Benson, Master.
Bnrthen about 140 tons, is intended to d\\_
ae sow as hef inwuid caign is dif< hai'ged, un
lets freight ftrmxd rffer to detain her.
For freight apply to the Captain on board
at Hamilton's wharf, or to
SAMUEL & MtERS FISHER.
Who have for Sal:,
A FEW PIPES
Cargo TenerirFe wine
t Ai»d a Jew pipes Sweet Do.
■ Excellent Sherry Wine in quarter calks
London Porter in 4 gallon calks
White and Red L< ad and Spanffli Brown
Tin plate* m boxe^
An aIT -tment of Call India Fans, Nan
keens aftd Silks
With a general alfortment of Merchandize
as uiVal.
sth5 th Mo. s, 1794 dtf
For Norfolk lif Fredericksburgh,
Jo«n Earl, Master.
A{launch good veflel, will fait in a few
days. For freight or p ffage, apply to the
master cn board at Chefmit street Wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONT & SON.
March jJt dtf
For Sale or Charter,
ANDROMACHE,
(An American bottom )
■rtf'S. '-t John Moore-, Majler.
IS aftoXit good vc.HTel, about two y»ar« old,
bun Sen 232 fan";, has only made ttree voy.
ages, and may be lent to feu at a ftnall ex
pence. Slie may be leen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known bv application to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
MaVch 21. ?i£_
For Am fter sam ,
- —3-, The new fall-failing, copper
/raSySf bottomed SHIP
flfjt ADRIAN A,
•Sin 1 "St K. Fitzpatrick, Master.
BIJtLT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight orpaflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Pafiengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794 dtf
The following Certifi
caie of the funied three Cent Stock of t{?e
Do»n< ftic Debt ol the United States Abiding on
the books of the Ticafury of th (aid United
States. 10 the names ol DoQnald and Bu'ton of
JLondor, mcirhants, and signed \f Joseph
NoU'fe, Regift: rof said Treasury, to wit : —
No. 5476, dated 24 h August i7g2,for 2939
dollars and 53 cents >vas tfanfmitteo fiom Lon
don in the foip PetCr, Paul HOfley, master,
bound for Nrw York, and has been loft —
The Subfcnber intending to apply 10 the Trea
sury of (he United States to have the fame re
newed, dcfires ail persons who are tnlerefted jn
the said certificate, to make their obje&ions
thetcto, ;f any they have.
Francis Macy.
Pnilad. March 17. d6w
Just Imported,
In the Snip Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
Afe<w bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Ozvahttrgs,
Holland Sheet^g,
Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, "va
rious fixes.
Sheathing P-aper, ,
Swedes Iron, square andflat bars, '
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, lsc. &c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The nlove-mentiomd Ship is for Sale—
Ihouldapplication be made •within ast u> days ■
atherwife Jhe -will take freight for Jmjhr
dam.
March t, 1794. d—tf
Wharton and Greeves,
Have removed their Counting Hone from
street, To Morton's whaif,
tvhrrt tnsy have for Sale,
Madeira and sherry Wine,
fit for immediate use
Gin in cases, ~
Sout/jong Tea,
Black Pepper,
Kuffia Alatts,
Corks,
'J'juus Bark,
Cojftre, and
E'lj/rJty Hhds.prime Tobacco.
May s- </— $f.
Advertisement.
M. CrtRPEN j lER, Jn lnbabitar)t
Doisiiigo, ,goi ; g to B.tltimore in the ftage.lolt
on his route the sth iatt a POCKET BOOK
containing (everal letters and papers, parti
cularjy a draft (or Hv.rei or one thou land
duilirs, in tayor ot Messrs Zaciiarie Coup
mauandCo.ol Baltimore.
Whoever lhall return thep ocket book and
papers to M. Carp en tier at Balrim.mr, or to
the Printer hereof, fliaMie fts juipenfsd lor
their trouble.
May 7 ' d3r
~ FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Mai ket-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery,
DeGgned to exhibit in a new point oi view
its effttts on morals, ifidujlry. and the peace of
society. Some rafts and calculations are ottWed
prove the labor oi freemen to be mucb more
produftivc than that ot Jlaves ; that ;
rich, powerful and happy, in propoition a« the
laboring people ertjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; ann hence the n cefTn y cortclirfion, that '
Havcry is impolitic as well ->s u>'jujl.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February 15.
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglbeads and in fa/cs of boulca each.
ALSO,
A Wine •
MADEIRA
In pipes, hoglheads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. m, South Front llieec.
Jan. 2, 1794. dtf ..
Advertisement.
The Editor of tne American Star pmpof
ing to ptrblifli his paper DAILy, withont any
augmentation of the prden't price, is obliged
to suspend the publication ot it u ; ,i|| ihe 15th
inrt. on account of some arrangements.
Mav 5 3^
City of Washington.
TH£ Subscribers to the Articles of Agree
ment oi the " Columbian Society" aie re
qnefted to mee-t at Mr. Ricbardet's Tavern
in the city of Philadelphia, on Monday the
26th day of the present month, at 12 o'clock
in order lochoofea board of Managers, &c.
in conformity with the 9th article of their a
greement. >
James Greenleaf.
N. B. Dinner will be ordered on the Table
at 3 o'clock for such of the SuWcribgrs a;
may choose to pass a social hour after the
business of the day is finiflied.
Ma y 5- dts6M.
N O T I C~E.
THE Subscriber acquaints the gentlemen and
ladies, Retailsrsof Dry Goods, that
On Monday the 12th infi.
At 9 o'clock in tire morning, he wil; ha"ve rea.
«ly for sale, at his Wholdale \Varehou!e,Nu.
117, north Second street, oppefite to Mef"
frs. J. \V. and .Win. CiMSs,
A NEAT PARCEL
DRY GOODS,
Jufi imported in tbefbip William Pe,m,f,om
London)
Consisting of an allortment ctf
Sattins, modes & persi
ans, narrow corded Dimities, and
some India Muftms.
Louis Ofmont,
Who has al/o sor 1 sale,
A QUANTITY OF
Looking Glasses, Framed,
Claret in catcs of superior quality
Cliampaigne Wine, and a few ' 1
B xes Sptrmaceti Candles. 1
M »> T. dtr
M *
Concluding Sales.
THE £ut>lcri&cr having entered into Co
(>-*< ruedh.p with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the- of Sugar Refining, will difpoJe
oflhQ;
Remaining Stock on hand
Consisting of
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
Bj WhofcftSt at Prime Co/I for Cajh.
John Dorfey,
No. 2a, North 3d it refit.
r il tuth&s6w
i— -
Congrcfs of the United States.
IN SENATE,
Monday, April 28, 1794.
Mr. King reported from the manageis
at the coQfcrcmee on the part of the Se
nate, • 011 the disagreeing! votes of the two
Houfearefpefting the bill, entitled, "An
ast, to establish the poft-office and poll
roads within the United States," and the
report was adopted.
Whemipon,
Resolved, that in lieu of the tenth a
meadment proposed by the Senate, the
following be substituted—
Make the two paragraphs one, thus :
After "Conoojoharric" strikeout "to"
and insert " and" and after " JVhiteflbivn"
ftrikx out all that follows to " Montgome
ry" inclulive, and insert, "to Kattanclor
que, andfrom fume convenient point in that
line."
So that the paragraph.be read thus :
From Albany by Scheneftady Conno
joharrie and Whiteftown to Kanandorque
ar.tj from some convenient point in that
throngh Cherry valley to the Court-
House in Coopers-Town in the County of
Otfego.
In the new feftion propefed by the Se
nate to follow the 2 7-th Section, after the
words, "t<wo rents" insert, "Provided
that no letter shall be delivered to such
carrier for dittribution, addressed to
any person who (hall have lodged at the
poftoffice a wjitten request, that his let- •
ters shall be detained in the office."
Ordered', that the Secretary desire the
concurrence of the House of I'eprefenta
tives in these amendments. 1
The bill, sent from the House of Re
prefehtatives for concurrence, "entitled,
" An ast to suspend the importation of
certain goods, wares and merchandize"
was read the second time.
A motion was made to refer this bill to
a committee of five, and after debate,
was withdrawn, and
A second motion for a commitment be
ing made—
It pasTed in the negative.
On the question to agree to the firft sec
tion of the bill as follows :
WHEREAS the injuries which have
been fu'ffered, and may be fuffered by the
United States, from violations committed
by Great Britain, on their neutral rights
and commercial interests, as well as from
her failure to cxecute the seventh article
of the treaty of peace, render it expedi
ent, for the interests of the United States,
that tfie commercial ifitercourfe between
the two countries, should not, during the
continuance of these embarrafiments, be
carried on in the extent; at present allowed:
BE it enaQed by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of A
merica, in Congress assembled, That from
and after the firft flay of November nixt,
it shall be Unlawful to import into the U
nited States, any goods, wares or mer
chandize whatever of the growth, pro
duce, or manufacture of Great Britain
or Ireland, and if any such shall be im
ported, the fame shall be forfeited, and
may be seized by any of the officers of
thecuftoms : And where the value there
of, according to the highest market price,
shall aijioijnt to four hundred dollars, the
vefTeliiapoitingthe fame, with her tackle.,
apparel and furniture, /hall be fubjeft to
™ , )zure and forfeiture. Provided,
I nat this prohibition and forfeiture, (hall
not extend to any such articles as are now
exempted from duty.
It pa(Ted in the negative.;—Yeavs-—i 1 ,
Nays—l 4,
' ' J": y e as and nays being required by
one fifth of the Senators present :
Ihofr who voted in the affirmative,
are, Messrs. Brown, Burr, Butler, Ed
wards, Gunn, Hawkins, Langdon, Mar
tin,.Monroe, Robinson and Taylor.
~ wl '° vote d in the negative, are,
TBradford, Cabot, Ellfwonh,
Softer, Frehnghuyfen, Henry,
t ln S> Morns, Potts, Rofs, Rutherford,
strong and Vining.
And the question, being feverallv ptft
on the feftions of the bill,
Pafled in the negative.
s motion,
riiat this bill pass to thethird reading—.
0 " puffed 111 the negative—-Yeas—i*.
n Nays—1 3.
Ihe yeas and nays being required by
e one fifth of the Senators present. ,
Phofe who VDted in the affirmative,
are, Messrs. Bradley, Brown, Burr,
- ? Ut^ r ' Edwards, 'Gunn, Hawkins,
; jackson, Langdon, Martin, Monroe,
Robinson and Taylor.
Those who voted in the negative, ast?
, Mefli s. Bradford, Cabot, Elliworth,
, Foster, Frelinghiiyfen, Henry, l7.ard,
King, Morris, Potts, Rutherfurd, Strong-,
and Vining.
t Vice-President determined the
question in the negative.
Ordered, Tfyat the Secretary acquaint
the House of lleprefentatives that tht
, Senate do not concur in this bill.
Mr. Fuller reported from the commit
; tee for enrolled bills, that they had ex
r arnined the "bill, entitled, "An ast alW
ing Lieutenant-Colonel Toufard an equn '
yalent for his pension for life," and that
it it was duly enrolled.
A mefiage from the House of Repr«-
fentatives, by Mr. Beckly their Clerk :
" Mr. President—The Speaker of the
House of Representatives having signed
an enrolled bill, I am dire&ed to brftig
it to the Senate for the fie nature of the
Vice-Prelident.
" The House of Representatives disa
gree to the firit and »gree to the fecund
amendment of the Senate to the bill, eft
titkd, " An act to encourage the recruit
ing femce." And he withdrew.
The Vice-President signed the enrolled
bill, entitled, " An ast allowing Lieute
nant-Colonel Toufard an equiualent ftfr
his pension for life &it wasdelivered to
the committee to be laid before the Prefl
dent of the United States for his appro
bation.
Mr. Gunn, from the committee to
whom was referred, the bill, entitled,
" An ast providing for raifwg and organ
izing a corps of artillerifh and engineers,"
reported, that the bill pafj without ar
mendment; and the report being adopt
ed—
Ordered, That this bill pass to th«
third reading.
The Senate took into confidederation
the resolution of the Honfe of Repre
sentatives, drfagreeing to the amendment
of the Senate to the firft feftion of the
bill, entitled, " An ast to encourage the
recruiting service," —and
Resolved, That the Senate aitbert to
their amendment to the firft feftion of
the said bill.
Ordered, That the Secretary commu
nicate this refolutiotT to the House of Re
presentatives.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Tuesday, April 2gth, 1794.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled
An ast providing for raising and or
gamizing a corps of artillerlfts and engi.
nqers," was read the third time. °
On motion,
That this bill be reeotnmrtted—\ pijy in native. t
■R Solved, That this bill paf">. <
Ordure*!, That the Secretary acquaint
the ilLoafe cf Representatives with the
concurrence of the Senate in this bill.
Mr. Burr, from the committecto whom
was referred iie report us the Attorney
General, on tlx intirio.iJof the inhabi
tants of GklTreported * h;ll_ for
J thcir ndfkf; Wnkli read the firft time.
Ordered, Tliat ihw hill pals to the se
cond reading.
A meflage from the I louse of i\.epre
f«ttativcßby Mr. Beckk-y the t clerk:
" Mr. Prefident —The House of Re
presentatives ask a conference on the a
mendment adhered to by the Senate, to
the bill, entitled, " An ast to encourage
the recruiting service," and have appoint
ed managers at the fame on their part"—
And he withdrew.
The Senate took into consideration the
resolution of the House of Representatives
aiking a conference on the amendment ad
htrcd to by the Senate, on the la.l men
tioned -bill—and
Resolved, Tliat they do agree to the
proposed conference, and that Mr. Strong, |
Mr. EUfworth, and Mr. Gunn, be mana- '
gers thereof on the part of the Senate.
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the House of Reprefentatives'therewith.
Mr. Poller, reported from the commit
tee on enrolled hiljs that they had this day
laid before the President of the United
States the enrolled bill, entitled, " An
ast allpwing Lieutenant Colonel Toufard
an equivalent for his pension for life."
• The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
, morrow fnorning.
Wednesday, April.3o.
Mr. Porter reported from the commit
tee for enrolled bills that they had exa
mined the enrolled bill, entitled, An ast
providing for raising and oVganizing acorps
of artillerists and engineers," and that it
was duly enrolled.
The bill, for the relief of the French
inhabitants of Galliopolis, was read the
second time.
Ordered, That this bill be referred to
Mr. Brown, Mr, Burr, Mr. Taylor, Mr.
King and Mr. Potts, to consider and re
port thereon to the Senate.
A meflage from the House of Repie
fentativesby Mr. Beckley their clerk :
" Mr. President—The President of the
.XJnited States hath notified the House of .
Representatives.that he this day, approv
ed and signed, " Ao ast allowing Lieute
nant Colonel Toufard an equivalent for his
.pension for life."
" The Speaker of the House of Re
presentatives having .signed an enrolled bill,
I am directed to bring it to the Senate
for the signature of the Vice-Prefident"—
And he withdrew.
The Vice-President signed the enrolled
bill, entitled, " An ast providing for rais
ing and organising a corps of artillerists
and engineers," and it was delivered to
. the committee for enrolled bills to be laid
before the President of the United States
for his approbation.
'The Vice-President laidbeforethe Senate,
a letter from the Secretary for the depart
ment of State, refpefting a statement of
the spoliations committed on the commerce
of the United States ; which was read.
Ordered, That it lie on the table.
< On motion,
The petition of James Mathers door
keeper to the Senate, praying for an aug
mentation of hisfalary was considered.
Ordered, That it be referred to Mr.
Taylor, Mr. Morris, and Mr. Cabot, to
consider and report thereon to the Senate.
On motion,
Ordered, Thar the petition of George
Taylor and others, clerks in the Treasury
Department, praying for an augmenta
tion of their salaries, be referred to the
fame committee, to confidcr and report
thereon to" the Senate.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
ThurfdayMay lft, 1794.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives, by Mr. Beckley their Clerk :
'' Mr. President—The House of Re
presentatives have a parted a bill, entitled,
" an ast Supplementary to " An ast to
provide for the defence of certain ports
and harbors in the United States," in
which they desire the concurrence of the
Senate.'' And he withdrew.
This bill was read the firft time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
Mr. Potts from the committee to whom
was referred the petition of Meflrs. Stew
art and Plunket, reported a bill for the
remission of the duties on eleven hogs
heads of coffce which have been destroy- i
cd by fire ; and the bill was read the firlt
time. ' .
Ordered, Tiut ibis bill pa 6 to the le
cond reading.
Tlie Senate adjourned to 11 o clock
to uwivow mortjinff.
Friday, May 2d, 1794-
The bill for the remission of the duties
on eleven of coffee which have
been destroyed by fire, was the se
cond time. ,
Ordered, That this bill pass to the
third leading.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
prefeutatives for concurrence, entitled,
« An ast fupplcmentary to " An aSt to
provide for the dcfence of certain ports
and harbors in the United States, was
read the second time.
Ordered, That the further considera
tion of this bill be postponed until Mon
day next.
Mr. Gunn from the committee to
whom was referred the bill, entitled, "An
? ast directing a detachment from the Mi
litia of the United," reported an amend
! ment as follows :
! " SeCt. 5. And be it further enacted,
I That this ast (hall continue and be in force
! for the space of one year from the paf
-1 sing thereof, and from thence to the end
] of the next session of Congress, and no
I longer."
1 Which report being adopted, and the
bill further amended—
Ordered, That this bill pass to the
third reading.
Mr. Fojter reported from the commit
tee, that they had examined the enrolled
bill, entitled, " An ast to establish the
pod-office and port roads within the Uni
ted States," and that it was duly enrol
j led.
A mefiage from the House of Repre
sentatives, by Mr. Beckley their Cierk:
" Mr. Prelident —The Speaker of the
House of Representatives having signed
an enrolled bill, I am directed to bring
it to the Senate for the signature of the
Vice-Prefident." And he withhrew.
The Vice-President signed the enrolled
bill, entitled, " An ast to establish the
poll-office and poll roads within the Uni
. ted States," and it was delivered to the
coi.imittee to be laid before the President
of the United States for his approba
tion. •
(To be continued.)
From the General Ad-vertifer.
At a general and numerous meeting of
the manufacturers of the city of Phila
delphia, and such other citizens as re
probate the imposition of an excise up
on the infant manufactures of Ameri
ca, held in the State House yard, on
Thursday the Bth day of May, 1794.
Jacob Morgan, Chairman,
Is+ac Pennington, Secretary.
The following resolutions, together with the
preamble, were proposed and unnnimoujly
adopted :
WHEREAS it is the inalienable right
and bounden duty of all freemen vigilant
ly to observe the operations of govern
ment, publicly to declare their fentiroents
on its measures, and peaceably to remon r
ftrate against every incroachment upon the
liberties and interests of the people j and
whereas the imposition of and excise upon
certain domestic manufactures of the U
nited States, as contemplated by the
House of Representatives of (pongrefs,
appears manifeftly to this meeting, to be
at odce unjust, impolitic, oppressive, dan
gerous, and unneceflary : In erder there
fore to teftify the fenfeof the citizens and
particularly of the manufacturer* of Phi
ladelphia upon the important occasion, as
well as to warn tke legislature of the Uni
on against the introduction of a precedent
so odious, and ,so pernicious, it is
Resolved, That the manufactures of
the United States, however foftered by
the skill, industry and wealth of indivi
duals, remain in a Rate of infancy ; and
rather demand the patronage, than juftify
the exactions of government. The spirit of
enterprise, which led the citizens of A
merica into a patriotic competition with the
manufacturers of Europe, is (till depres
sed, and struggling amidst the embarrass
ments of the unequal contest. The pre
judicesin favour of foreign manufactures;
the inexperience of domestic workmen,
the high price of labour, and the inade
quate amount of capitals, are obstacles yet
to be surmounted in almost every branch
of American manufacture. The charge
and difficulty of introducing domestic ma-
nufaCtories, may indeed be exemplified in j
the recent attempt at the town of Pater
fon ; where, notwithstanding the magni
tude of the original fund, the auxiliary of
a lottery, arid the patronage of Rates and
flatefmen: the projected institution of
national manufactories has funk even be
fore its foundation was complete. To
demand, therefore, a partial contribution
from the individuals, who have thus em
barked and are thus contending in an ar
duous and patriotic talk, is obviously uir
juft, and may be fatal.
Resolved, that it is the policy of the
United States to multiply and encourage
domcftic manufactures ; but the attempt
to render them fubjeas of revenue, at this
early period of their existence, is calcula
ted to prevent the introduction of any
future, and to undermine the profpeiity
of every pjefent establishment. If to the
embarrassments which already attend the
institution of a manufactory, the appre
hensions of a tax equal to 50 or 20 per
cent, upon its produce (as is proposed in
the cases of fnufF and sugar,) (hall be ad
ded, few individuals (and on the exerti
ons of individuals, America mult after
all, rely for her manufactures) can he so
opulent, none will be so daring as to
continue, or to commence the experiment;
a permanent source of national wealth,
will thus be destroyed, by a ra(h and ava
ricious anticipation of its emoluments.
Resolved, That independent of the in
justice and impolicy of imposing any tax
upon the infant manufactories of Ameri
ca, the nature of the tax which is propos
ed, demands a firm opposition to themea
fure. The introduction of an excise sy
stem into the administration of a free go
vernment, cannot be too strongly repro
bated nor too resolutely opposed ; in eve- -
ry country in which it is known, it has
eventually been fatal; it has depraved,
oppressed and enslaved the people, while
it exalted their rulers, by the rigor of its
dispensations and the infwlence of its offi
cers ; it is the foul and poisonous source
from which flow collusion, fraud and per
jury, it cannot be imposed without tyran
ny, nor be endured without baseness.
Resolved, That if *n excise, at all times
oppressive and dangerous, might however
be vindicated by necefiity, even that plea
does not now exist. The federal wants
are not so great that they can only be top
plied by the exertion-os «very peflibk re- '
source ; and the terror of war, under
whose influence the excise was proposed, is
happily vanished.
Resolved, That the manufacturers of the
city of Philadelphia should and cheerfully
will contribute in just and equal propor
■ tions with their fellow-citizens to the sup
port of government, its dignity and ere
' dit; but they solemnly protest against eve
ry attempt to impose heavier burthens up
on their labor, or more arbitrary regula
tions upon their occupations than the la
bor and occupations of the reft of the
• community.
■ Resolved, That if during the present
feflion a law (hall be enaCted by Congress,
imposing an excise upon any domestic ma
nufactures, the manufaCturew of the city
of Philadelphia will aflemble at the State
j House (on the notification of the chair
man) to take into consideration what mea
; fures ought to be pursued to express their
j sympathy for their oppressed brethren, and
with a due respeCt for their obligations as
citizens to demonstrate their abhorrence
e of so unjust, so impolitic and so pernicious
( a precedent.
e Resolved, That the foregoing resolu
tions be signed by the chairman, and co
piet thereof be forthwith transmitted to
d the President of the Urtited States, to the
j. Speaker of the Senate, and to the Speaker
, s of the House of Representatives of Con
i- g'els
t Jacob Morgan, C'^irman.
The Printers of newspapers throughout
5 f the United States are requested to publish
,y the above reflations, for the benefit of
i_ the manufacturing interest in general,
.d ———————
% UNITED STATES.
. BALTIMORE May 5.
f_ ExtrdS of a Letter from a gentleman in Ja
[j*_ mate a, to his friend in this town, dated
e- Kingjion, March 16.
i; " O.nl the 13th of February, the court
n, of Oyer and Terminer f<jr the trial of of
e- fences coirtmitted on the high seas, met by
et appomtmeiik; after t,he usual forms, the
:h Grand Jury\,-ent out for Preferments,
rt and found tWS-bills, against Capt. Jofhuz
a- Barney, of (fee (hip Sampson, of Baltimore,
V\ "AM V • '
the firft for piratically and felonioufly ref
ining and bearing off a <hip and cargo,
which had been seized at sea, while under
his command, in July lad; the second for
firing upon, with intention to kill, and
wounding one of the prize matters: The
court then not thinking proper to go im
i mediately into the trial, adjourned until th«
i joth ; then they met and proceeded to try
him on the firlt indictment.
" Captain Barney was therefore arraion.
. ed at the bar, at I 1 in the morning, and
after an examination of witnefTes, and pro
: ceedings which continued until sin the
: evening, and were then closed by the' in
t tervention of the Judge, a virtuous and
s independent jury, without going out of
- their box brought in a verdi& not guilty."
r " The court then adjourned to the
r 15th, to try him on the second indi£hnent j
: but during this interval, the President of
; the court i(Tiled an order to stop all further
- proceedings ; and thus ended this interest.
r ing process.
1 " The origin and progress of this trial
- has for some time engaged no small (hate of
- the common chat of this town, and has
r been seriously considered in the United
States. It is not seasonable to trace this
affair through all its stages; fufficc it to
fay, that the firmnefs and dignity where
with Capt. Barney has conduced himfdf
through the whole of this cruel and vin
dictive profocutiou, at once bespeak him
the man his fellow citizens took him to
be, and refle&B additional lustre on the
character of a native American. While
the rapacious agent* of these commercial
regulations were endeavoring by every in
sidious artifice to pillage him of the means
of social exiltence, by depriving" him of his
property, another junto, were wicled and
inveterate, were no less induflrious to avail
thcmfelves of every evil machination, that
malice could invent or envy dictate, to
wreak their vengeance in his blood, and
left nothing untried todeprive Amcricaof
a valuable citizen, human nature of a
friend and benefa&or, and a virtuous and
amiable family of a husband and a father."
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 10.
We are the lhip Cleopatra,
Capt. Smith, anchored at Fort Mifflin, this
morning, after a pafiagt-®f Si days irorn )
Amsterdam.
The House of Representatives of the U
nited States have been principally engaged
the last fortnight in difcufiing the report of
the committee of fifteen, on the ways and
means—the bufmefs was largely debated ;n
committer of the whole, and fundrv amend
ments we re agreed to. The proposed dutus
Oncarriages, fiamps, sal- sat auSion, nwrn -
fa&ured tobacco and fiuffl has and hmfj'*■
gar, were feveratty objected to, and motions
made for striking theni out, but weTe all ne
gatived, and in general, by larger majorities
than usual. The direst tax on lands from
which 750,000 dollars were proposed to be
raised, was expunged by vote of a great ma
jority—ln discussing the duty on fiamps an
amendment was agreed to, by providing for
? tax on every transfer of funded and bank
llock of the amount of 100 dollars and up
wards, five cents for every 100. Sundry o
ther taxes were proposed, as, an excise on
cyder, lieer, and porter, &c. which were fe
veraily disagreed to. A motion for an addi
tional impolt of ten per cent on all goads,
wares, and .merchandise, the manufaflnre
of Great Britain and Ireland, was brought
forward, but meeting with a strenuous "p?°-
' fition, was withdrawn—The committee o. the
whole having gone thro' with the diicufcon
—report was made to the Houfe —and the
amendments agreed to, with some trifling
> alterations. The business has been before
> the House for several days—Some new pro
positions have been made, the conftitutwn
ality of feme of the taxes lis? he«i contro
verted, but no motion for striking out oa
that principle, has prevailed. The Hotrie
adjourned y titer day without finilhing the
t bullnefe —and met again this day.
f Extradl of a letter from Newbury Port>
dated April 30th, 1794- ,
" This day'we have received newswhic
may be depended on, by arrivals from Uo
minica, St. Kitts and New Providence, 0
their releasing our vefiels in their ports,
(thofc taken after their new inftriuSions ar
rived, of the Bth of January) therefore peo
ple this way, have altered their minds, low
j to believe there will not be any war Wt»
America; a pleating circumstance a our
opinion."
* The Legislature of this (lite, with a
y view to ioften the rigor of penal law*,
e palled an adt, declaring that 110 cr«pe c *
j, cept murder of the firft degree, lhal
a I punished with death. Murder in the ai e
:. I gr«e, is delighted to be, a killing by mean#
' ' I*of oouon, by lying in wait, or vrith other "
kind, of wilful, deliberate, premeditated e "
intention, or which shall be committed in
the perpetration or attempt to perpetrate
any arson, rape, robbery or burglary. All
other kinds of killing (hall be deemed mur
der in the second degree. The kind of
murder to be ascertained by the vcrdift of tf
fa
a jury.
Pcrfons liable to be frofecuted forpp- e '
tit treason shall be proceeded against and.
pimifhed as in other cases of murder. _
Muider in the firft degree is punilhed ; 9
with death. High treason is punished with 0
Confinement in prison and the penitentiary tl
house, not If, than 6, nor more than i 2
yejus Arson, with confinement not less V
than 5 nor more than 12 years—-Rape,
not less than 10, nor more than 21 years
Murder of the second degree, not less If c
than 5, nor more than 18 years—Fbrge- ir
ry, not less than 4, nor more than 15 years, ti
with payment of a fine, not to exceed 1000 "
dollats—maiming, not less than 2 nor
more than 10 years, with a fine not to t ,
exceed 1000 dollars—man-slaughter, not
less than 2 nor more than 10 ytars, and p
giving security for good behavior during ( n
life. Persons being charged with involun- h
tary man-flaughter.the Attoriyy-General, j 1
with leave of the court, may wave the fe- "
lony, and proceed against them as for a £
misdemeanor, and give in evidence any ast
of man-slaughter—os the attorney may tl
charge both offences in the' fame indict- p
ment, and the jury 1 may acquit the person n
of one or both —The benefit of chergy is =
for ever abolished. ~
In the Senate, U. S. Thursday Bth May, £
1794- f
On a motion made to suspend th« execu* a
tion o< the 4th article of the treaty with 1
Great Britain, until indemnification be made,
&c. &c. t
The Ycas and Nays were a* follows : {
YEAS, a. (
Meflrs. Monroe,& Taylor. 1
NAYS, 14. i
Meflrs. Langdon, Livermore. Strong, Ca
bot, Fofkr, Bradford, Ellfworth, King, Fre- 1
linghyfen, Morris, Roi's, Henry, Potts, Izard. j
Absent, Meflrs. Mitchrell, Burr, Ruther- 3
surd, Bradley, Robinson, Edwards, Brown,
Hawkins, Martin, Vining, Gunn, Jackson,
Butler— 13., v
The above article relates to the payment
of debts to Britifli Subje&s. - ,
We hear that a very interesting difcove
.... ry has been recently made,, in re{pe& to
the lofTes which have been sustained by
depredations on the Mail of the United
States.—
On Saturday last a number of citizens met at
Daily's Hotel inShippen ft re ft, to celebtate the
late gloiious success of the Frcnch Republic.
Much credit 1* due to Mr. Dally, on this oc
casion, for the paios he took ip provide for and
accomodate the company.
After dioner '.he following toasts wrre drank.
1. The Republic of France out and indmfi
blc,—may Peacc, Liberty and Saety, soon be
come the Harvelt of its present glorious struggles.
2. The people of the United States, and the
glorious Fabric of Freedom which they have e
-1 tiled in their own government.
3. The Prefideni of the United States, may
be long enjfty good health, Prosperity, and the
united pl rt uditsof all freemen.
4. Perpetual union between the two Repub
lic,» of frjnice and America.
5. The neurral oowcis>—may they support
their honor and vindicate their rights against all
sea robbers.
6. Th«* Congrcis of the Ignited States—may
the happiest icfuka be derived to the country
from the wiidom of their deliberations;
Tbe state of Pennsylvania—may her guardi
an angels be Peace, Liberty, Honour, Profpe-
Safety and Fraternity.
8. The mmifters of America in Europe—
tnay their exertions b< conftamaod unifotm to
fopport the energy and vigour oi all free go
vernments
9. The Universal Reign of true religion, Rea
son, Philosophy and cqnal rtghig,
10. The memory of the gallirtt veterans who
have fallen in defence of freedom in tl\e old and
new world ; li how beautiful is death when ear
ned by virtue."
IU Liberty to all mankind—"at her voice let
" agrTeulturc and commtree, those sources of
" national prosperity, aggrandize,
" and Cement, our friendly relations and pub
•• lie felicity."
iz. Liberty of thought, Liberty of Speech
and of the press—and a just attachment to a free
Government.
13-The memory of Franklin,may his patriotic
virtues, be ever the objc&s of universal imitation.
14. The armies and navies of France, by
■whose gallant achievements the sucCesses we ce
lebrate have been obtained and by which the
political profpc&s of America have been bright
ened.
15. The late allied armies; by whose glori
ous exertions peace, liberty and fafety were fe
* cured to America.
VOLUNTEERS.
By the Governor of Pennfylvaoia ; May France
triumph, and the world be at Peace'
By the Minister of Fiancc—May the rights
of nun and of nations be refpe&ed in both
Worlds and over all sea».
By the Speaker of the House of Representa
tive! ot the United States—The Mount a . 11-—
> \ *
b summit the heivens, and its bafc the whole
rarth.
it a meeting of the iDemocrit-c Society of
Pernlfylvania, held at Philadelphia, on the
Bth day of May in the year 1794» *nd of
American Independence the Eighteenth:
Resolved, as the opinion of this society,
hat the constitution of the United States, the
'acred instrument of o(ir freedom which
:very public officer has sworn to preserve in
violate, has provided, that the different de
partments of the government ffiould be kept
iiftindt ; and consequently that to unite them
is a violation of it, and an encroachment up
-3n the liberties of the people guaranteed by
that instrument.
Resolved, as the opinion of this society,
:hat, as by the constitution all treaties are de
dared to be the supreme law,of the land, it
secomes the dnty of the judiciary to ex
pound and apply them ; to permit, there
fore, an officer in that department to (hare
n their formation is to unite diftin£l func
:ions and tends to level the barriers of our
: r. edom, and to establish precedents preg
nant with danger. '
Resolved as the opinion of this society,
that justice requires, and the security of the
citizens of the United States claims an inde
pendence in the judiciary power ; that per
mitting the executive to bellow offices of
honor and profit upon judges, is to make
them subordinate to that authority, is to
make them its creatures, rather than the un
prejudiced and inflexible guardians of the
constitution and the laws.
Resolved as the opinion of this society,
that from the nature and terms of an im
peachment against a President, it is not only
necessary that the chief justice of the United
States (hould prelide in the Senate, but that
he lhould be above the biafs which the ho
nors and emoluments in the gift of the exe
cutive might create; that it is, therefore,
contrary to the intent and spirit of the con
stitution to give him a foreign mission, or to
annex any office to that which he alreatiy
holds.
Resolved as the opinion of this society,
that every attempt to supersede legislative
functions by executive interference, is highly
dangerous to the independence of the legisla
ture, and fubverlive of the right of repre
sentation.
Resolved as the opinion of this society,
that the appointment of John Jay, chief jus
tice of the United States as envoy extraordi
nary to the court of Great Britain, is con
trary to the spirit and meaning of the consti
tution ; as it unites in the fame person judicial
and legislative functions, tends to make him
dependant upon the President, destroys the
check by impeachment upon the executive,
and has had a tendency to contronl the pro
ceedings of tie legislature, the appointment
having been made at a time, when Congress
were engaged in fiictr mrafiirrs as tended to
secure a compliance with our just demands.
Resolved, as the opinion of this society,
that after the declaration made by John Jay,
that Great Britain was juftifiable in her de
tention of the western polls it was a facri
fice of tne interests and the peace of the
United States to commit a negociation to
him, in which the evacuation of those posts
ought to form an essential part; that to
abandon them is to put at stake the blood cf
our fellow citizens on the frontiers, is to
give birth to a perpetual military eflablilh
nient, an endless war, and all the oppressions
resulting from excise and heavy taxation.
Resolved, That the above resolutions be
made public, that they be immediately trans
mitted to all the democratic societies in the
union, as a protest of freemen against the
molt unconllitutional and dangerous measure
in the annals of the United States, and as an
evidence, that no influence or authority
whatever shall awe them into a tacit facri
fice of their sacred rights.
By order of the society.
J. Smith Prefid.pro tem.
Geo. Booth, Sec'ry.
GENERAL JOURDAN.
[For the recall of this General frop
the command of the French array of the
North, so soon after his late successes, va
rious motives have been alledged. In the
following the truth, we believe may be
seen.]
" SOME curiosity having been exci
ted refpefting the cause, and the manner
of Geneial Jourdan's removal from the 1
chief command of the French army o£
the North—we insert an abilraft of the
Report of the Committee of Public Safe
ty on the fubjeft. " After our success
at Maubeuge, the Committee prepared a
plan for driving the enemy from the ter
ritory of the Republic. For the execu
tion of this plan, great boldness was ne
ceflary in the General. This quality is
wanting in Jourdan, who seems to have
forgotten the maxim, That nothing is
" done while any thing remains to be done."
" The committee thought he (hould
be replaced by PICHEGRU, who poflef
fea all the qualities, that JOURDAN
wants. The latter, may return home for
some time—but, not as fufpedted Gene
rals do ! He (hall obtain an honorable re
treat—worthy of his probity and putrio.
' ' " „ . ' • •
\ tifm. He is poor—aad the Conqueror of
J.laubruge, ought to rcccive a teftimoriy
of National Gratitude. We pnopofc to
you to grant him the pension fixed by
law."
; The House of Representatives of the
United States, this day, corapleated the
difcufGon of the report of the committee
of the whole on the ways and means, and
appointed a Committee to bring in a bill.
A resolution was this day moved in the
House for continuing the Embargo to
the 20th of June —and notice given, th»t
it would be called up on Monday next*
By this Pay's Mail.
NEW-YORK, May 9.
Last Wednesday was held the annual
Commencement of Columbia Col We.
. The Governor, Chancellor, Mayor, Re
gents of the University, Clergy of all de
nominations, Trustee* of the college,
profefiors of the faculty of arts, profef
fors of the faculty of Phytic, the gradu
ates and students of the *rts and physic—
a!flembled 011 the green before the college,
and thence went in 9 proceflion to church,
preceded by a band of mufiCj The prcfi
dent of the college being Confined by
sickness, the exercises of the day, were
introduced with a prayer by the Rev. Dr.
Gross, the senior profefior.
The Ift salutatory oration in latin was
spoken by Peter Jay, on Order.
The id salutatory oration in english,
by Jacob Janeway, on the rights of
Equality.
Leffert Lefferts, on the chara&cr of
Cauis Marius.
Gilbert Milligen, on the Passions.
Thomas Uftick, on War.
Montgomery Hunt, on the Military
Character.
John Fisher, on Humanity.
Samuel Malcom, on hi (tory.
John Stringham, on Friendship.
Levi Gi'aham, on Youth.
Peter Stuyvefant, on Sensibility.
Jacob M'Kie,, on Ambition.
William Cox, on Man.
The degree of doctor of physic was
then conferred upon Peter Irving, David
G. Abeel, and Henry Mead ; the degree
of Batchejor of arts on Cyrus King, Ja
cob Janeway, Peter Jay, John Forbes,
Eeffert Lefferts, Gilbert Milligen, Tlio
mas Uftick, Montgomery Hunt, John
Fisher, Samuel Malcom, John Stringham,
Levi Graham, Peter Stuyvefat, Jacob
Mackie, and William Cox; and the de
gree of Master of arts, on the Reverend
Richard C. Moore, of Staten Island, and
the Rev. Cave Jones, of Virginia.
The Valedictory Oration was then de
livered by Cyrus King, on the present
state of America, as influenced by foreign
and domeftie politics.
After an address from the presiding
profefior to the graduates in general, the
whole was concluded by prayer.
N". B. As the Dean of the faculty of
physic had been prevented the day before
attending in the College Hall, the gradu
ates in physic fubferibed in the prefenceof
the audience, the necessary articles, and
an opportunity was taken by the Dean to
deliver to them an address.
Yesterday arrived at the Hook, the ship
Harmony, Captain Treagle, from Bordeaux.
The Harmony has brought 24 pafiengers.
We have the pleasure to inform the public
that Mr. Handerfyde, a constable of this
city, who was stabbed about a fortnight ago
by a Capt. Fish, whom he had arrested for
debt, is nearly recovered from his wounds.
We trust that the recovery of Mr. Hander
fyde and the legal steps taken with Captain
Fish, will prevent a repetition of the like of
fence towards any public officer.
BALTIMORE, May 6.
Gentlemen, *
The advice, afliftance, and fuppott, you
so readily afforded me, during my enquiry
into the two last riots,* in this town,de
mand my public approbation and thanks ;
which you will be pleased to accept from,
gentlemen,
Your most obedient servant,
SAMUEL CHASE,
Chief Judge of Maryland.
To the Worfliipful
George Salmon,
George G. Prtjlury,
Thorotvood Smith, and
Nicholas Rogers, Esquires,
Justices of Oyer*, &c.
*Of whom fpeaitth the Judge—of the
free, peaceful and happy citizens of the
United Stales—or some other people ?
V ♦
r
i r \ f » i. * f v
NORFOLK, May I. , ,
On Tuesday arrived here the (hip Char«
lotte, Ciptain Randall, in 50 days,from
PCTtLIi, Spaih. In. about 20 or 30
leagues off the Capee, spoke the (hip Cin
ciun&tus, Captain Cannon, out 47 days
from Amsterdam, "bound to Baltimore—
all well. ,i, ' i ,
Arrived—Ships Charlotte, Randall,
Ferrol; Almonac, Dei by, Port Glasgow.
Brig Maria, Wilkinfop, Cadiz. Sch'rs
Ranger, Harrifon, St. Bartholomews }
Sea Flower, St. Thomas's.
i BOSTON, May 1.:
Cap*. Rollins, -who arrived in town on
Saturday last, has obliged the Editors with
the follswjug intelligence, which cannot be
contra verted: He failled from Portsmouth,
(N. H.) Kirr.e time since, bound for Point
Pqtre, where he arrived, disposed of his car
go, and pvrchafed a quantity of sugar, &c.
the produce of the Island. He likewise toolt
00 board, on freight for Norfolk, about
3C,QCoi, worth of English goods, which he
took from a brig belonging to a Capt. Blaney,
who was bound from London to Norfolk,
but was blown off the coast last winter,
and had put into Ppint Petre, where the ves
sel was condemned as unfit for sea, and the
goods (hipped on board of Capt. RoilinS..
Just after he left Point Pent, he was taken
by a Britilh privateer and carried intaMont
ferat, where he was libelled, tried anicon
demned, veflel and cargo, that 00 freight as
well as his own, after the iew orders were
received. The judge told him that he had
private inftru&ions and must condemn all.
The value of this (hip and cargo was esti
mated at 35,009!. fteriing, which is the rich
est prize they have condemned yet.
Capt. Rr fays they have condemned 41
veflels at Moatferat, and,nearly half of them
fines the new orders were received.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
S«hr.Tartar, Luzane, , Baltimore
Arrived at fort Mifflin —1 (hip, a Portu
guese snow, g brigs, j schooner, 1 sloop,
and the brig Ranger of Philadelphia.
At Chester—the ship Diana, Captain
Cain. At Wilmington—the brig
American. In the Delaware—a snow,
belonging to New-Providence.
REMAI N I N G
OF THE 1
Ship India's Cargo,
FROM
BENGAL.
. A finall affortmcnt of
BALE GOODS,
aj3 bags COTTON of good quality, which
would probably make an excellent remit
tance to Europe, and a
Quantity of PEPPER
For Sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
y Who has also to dispose of
Barcelona Hand's s. in boxes,
Holland Gin in cases,
Souchong, Hyfon,-and Tonkay Tea,
A quantity of flrrmltone, See.
F May 1 o •. d 3 w
' ~~~ JUST PUBLISHED,
[ MATHfiV CAREY,'
( 118, MarketJlreet,
Price 18 cents,
THE-.
Catechism of Man 5
Pointing out from found principles, and ac
knowledged fadls the Rights and Duties of
every Rational Being.
Am I therefore become,your enemy bec'aufe I
tell you the truth i Gal. iv. j6
Now ail these things happened nnto them lor
examples, and they are written for our
admonition, upon whom the ends of the
eartlv are come. i Cor. xii.
May 10 tuth&saw
NEW THEATRE.
1 THIS EVENING,
t May io.
Will be performed*
; A TRAGEDYY, called
• OTHELLO,
The Moor of, Venice.
To which will be added, ,
A COMIC OPERA, called .
Peeping Tom, of Coventry.
With the original Overture and Accoiflpa
niments.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to
fend their servants to keep places, at half an
hour past j o'clock, and to order them to
withdraw, as soon as the company are seated
' e as they cannot on any account be permitted
'e t o remain in the boxes, nor any places kept
after the fir ft aA.fe ■
„ Phi! i, 17-34-
-* * Notice, aj»rfeoably t«> charter, is here
b/ g!-.-e» to the members of tlx Corp'.' anon
for tut rii ffrf of /W and DijhvJfid Prefby- 1
tcifian Mmi/ers, a:td of the Poor and Dif- 1
,rj:d ,'ViJjws mid chfld. Ji of Prcfiyierian '
Miuylers, tnata meetiiig of laid
is ta take place, on,the 2id day of May next,
in fhi: second Prelbyterian church in the city
of Philadelphia, at 4 «'cloek P. M. for the
d; patch of alliiich business as may then be
bnouzfc* befora the board.
ASHBEL QIiEEN,
Secretary of the Corporation.
tutb&sit
lio the Ele&ors of the city and
county of Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
T:-US jemg the lad year of the prelent
ineriifs time in office. I rake Hie 1 her
ty -r> offer nty elf a Candidate, and Illicit
y inr votes and' interests in my tavot, t-» place
me on tlii re'U'tiiat the next general Elect on,
as Jus luccelTir lor laid office; in doing which,.
)dri Will confer an obligation that will be
gr-at-jfuhy reiri 'inb.-rtd, by
Your 1110 ft obedien',
and humbly ' 1 van',
john bak-.r.
"-IIV 3- „ I
J ult Imported,
In thefh'p Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
P ! - •jbitrgh in Russia, and now landing at
kuffelf J wharf,
KiiMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
R VKNS DUCK,
RUSSIA, DUCK,
Aijd' for (.>le at the Itorcs of the futyctibcr in
Walaui. N - 99.
John Donnaldfon.
April 4. ' -- diw vi&-t
NANKEENS.
Nankeens as Superior Quality,
f£R_SAI>E AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
> . ApVil at. mw&ftf
■ S HOES.
A auantrity of stout well made Men's si
SHOES, avlapted for tae Southern market, for
sale at
No. 36, North Third Jlreet.
May toufc&fiOt
— —
1"* IE oincejof the , Preftdent. and D rectors
,*t the Insurance Company of Nokth i
AMtkicA, is ieuiyved to N . 107, South
Froatflie r,.being the icyth eftil corner of
Front *n\l Walnut Ifcreets.
M y 1. ' . t£f 1 m.
Treasury Department.
Revenue-Office,' May 7th, 1794..
NOTK3E is hereby given, tna Proposals
will he received at the Office Of the Coinmf
firmer of the Revenue, for Ship Timber of
the following kinds, fuitablc for the buil<tirg
o t te' Frigates authorized by Law, A par
t f.u'V derail of the size s and proportions will
b c Jinmupicated, on application, at the said
O We.
White Oak Timber and Plank.
98 of vaious Dimenfiois, includ
ing Keek, Floor and K fmg Timbers,
&c. for a Vcffel of 140 or 150 feet
Keel.
27,000 Feet of Plank, ScartUm£» Wale
w pieces, Bilge Streak , Clamps, &C.
£ 230 Lo£s, for various u<es*.
u C Pitch Pine.
J of Plank for Decks.
"5 210 Beams, r rom 42 to 28 feet long, and
£ from 10 by 12 to 15 by 18 inches thro'.
W I
c •
[k J">,oo0 -tocuft Treenails, 18, 24 and 30
i|>ch<;s long.
5.3">3 Faet of Inch and half-incb Cedar
Board?.
30,000 Feet of Yejlow Pine Boards and
I Scautliag.
- . Persons willing to supply any part of tqe
- above Tirnher for one Stwp, or in prnporiinu
, for the whole fix, will make their Piopofals
acspidiiigly.
tuM*3 w
. 'Tlx Ground Plan
. OF THE
City and Suburbs
PHILADELPHIA.
FROM AQTUjiL SUKrBt.
». IT to witlvpleaffere that the publilher'has to
info P\lrisfut)ftribersand the palijic in gene,
ral, 'that the plate is now under the hards of
the engraver, and in greater forwardnefs than
was at firit contemplated. At the fame time
he bogs leave to r mind them, thtt fobfci ip
tion papers are'ftill open at moftof the noted
Hook-'ftoreS in the ciry ; and that he hopes
irom the whole of th?m to be enabled to so nn
such rrelpeft'able catalogue of nam««, as will
do a credit to the work, j s well as afford a
reasonable eneonragement to the nndertike-r
Ttiofe who are dnirous of further informa.
tiou are requested to caU nft,
Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, Market llfeet.
April 14. ni&tlitf
1
Advertisement.
THfc reja ias o« vi ' i" 0.-i.as Cu 'ti ,for-
n ely of Ellicoti'j Up erM 'i , oi.d iJite yo*
the C tyof WaO» r»«tc»n, ('eceal<d, are desir
ed to apply and ati.i rs fett'eH.
City of Waftiingtoto, April 22, 1764- ru
M. < m&th4w
bt
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SQLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
No., 41, Jquth SfcoiidJlreet,
Extrad: of a letter from a gen- '
tleniju in America to a Iriend in Kugland, on
■jthe Snbjett of Emigration— price i-Bth of a
doliir.
Ecclrftajlical EJhibhJhneAls detrimental to t
a State. f
Price 1 Hoi a Dollar. t
/Wil "2 mw&fjw_ (j
juit Imported, «
In the Ship Edward, (-'apt. Crandon, from
St. Petersburg in Ru3ia, _ ■
And now landing at South-street Wlurf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
V RUSSIA SHEETING, ,
RAVEN's DUCiC, i:
RUSSIA DUCIv, 1
HOG's BRISTLES. b
AND FOR SALE BY 1
"John Donnaldfon,
No. ii, Walnut-street.
March 4,1794. tUw.jtawtf £
' Diflirid: of- Pennsylvania <
TO W / T: "
//% > itTCioe t nibeieo, that on the
' twenty fourth day of March, in
ihc eighteenth year of the independence of the (
UiiitedScates of America, Ebjnezer Hazaro t
of the Jaid diftrift, rn this office, t
th 3 title of a bookjth* 1 ght whereotl e claims
us author, in the to wit : v
" C^oilediions; confuting of llate \-
papers, and other authentic documents ; in-
tended as materials for an hiftoiy of the U
nited States of America. 1
By EBENEZER HAZ ARD, A. M. (
Member of the American Pnilofophical'So
ciety, held at Philadelphia, for promoting 1
uletui knowledge; Fellow of the American 1
academy of A' ts' and Sciences ; and corref* ;
poudent member of the Malfachufetts H.fto- j
rical Socicty.
VOLUME 11. ;
Pietas, Arte*, ac bellica virtue,
Hue protngje venient, et Regna illultiia
condent,
Et Domina hie Virtus erit, et Fortuna mi
niftra/'
Iq coniorjnity to the ast of the Congress of
the United States, entitled 4< At. act for the
eucouragewent of )earo>»ig, l»y fetuOng the
copies ot maps, charts and books, to the au
thors and propiietors of such copies, during
the times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Dijlrtil of Pennfylvama.
May 7 ew4w
ADVERTISEMENT.
SALES at NEH-'-TOkL, oy A. L.
BLEECKER o J iO/vS,
On Thursday the 15th May next at Twelve
o'clock at the Tontine Coffee House,
THE FOLLOWING
c fraßs of Land,
In Watkins and Flint's purchaser, in the coun
ty of Tioga, llate of New York.
The containing acres.
Sohthweft quar. of Townlh'p No. 2,
North weft do. do. 4, 5,647
Northeast do. do. 6, 10,j2J
Southwelt do. do. 7, 9500
Southwell do do. 8, 3,95'
Noitljwelt do. do. 8, 6, -153
Southeast do. do. 9, 6,2 j 1
Southeast do, do. 1 9,009
North*eft do. rlo. 10, 10,475
/ 70,521
Thefelands are rapidly eticreafing in vaiu ,
large settlements are already made in fevdal
of the townihips; the goodness of foil, and
the advantages in point of fitoation being so
well known, render any lm ther description
unnecelFary. Am .p of the and condi
tions of sale may be seen at No. 10, Queen
street, N?w-York.
April 10. tuth&s ti4M
FOR SALE,
BY T»E SUBiCRIBfcR,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
sup rior quality in piprs, imported in the lhip
NVilnington.
OLD SHERRY WINE of the Hrfl quality
in quarter calks, imported in the brig Nancy
capv Gwin. fr. m,Cadis. \
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RAISINS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIFFE WINES,in pipes
hhds. and quarter calks, imported in the fljip
Thomas, capt. Skinner.
A few quarter calks of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who has also, just arrived and for sale
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lisbon Salt.
A quantity of empty BAGS for file.
A P r 'l J- w&sim.
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the,- United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
federal of which have appeared in circulation
'within a few days pafi ; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be diflinguijhed by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark*
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine p&per.
The O. in the word Company is smaller
than the M- and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M. would extend con
fide! ably above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
The i and fln the word promise are not
parallel, the yinclining much more forward
than the /.
The engraving is badly execu?ed,the stroke*
of all the Letters are stronger and the devi e,
in themargi/i particularly is much coarfcr and
appeals darker'ihan in the true bills. Some
ol the counterfeits bear date in 1791—Where
as th© Bank was not in operation 'till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were lffued in
lhat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B toi their alphabetical mark.
They are printed 00 a paper neaily similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described ; the engraving is bettei exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, ii] tlve body of tlic bill, are in number th r
teen \n the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the countei feits.
The word Company is touch like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as defer ibed a
bove, the a being less than the /n, and others
folio vying.
There is no stroke to the / in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not couie down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and the>- go
ing below them.
The signature ]. Nixon, has the appear
ance ot being written with lamb-black and
oil, and ditiers from other inks uied in
printing the bills and the calhier's iignature.
It is iuppoled thcie forgeries were commuted
in iomeot the Southern States, as all the eouo*
terleits thac have appeared, have come from
thence, and two periods have been appieheud*
ed in Virginia, on suspicion of being the author
of' thern.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Per ion or Persons who Hi ail
discover and piolecute to convi&ipn tl e teveral
offenders of ihe following defcript|ons or any
qf them, viz.
The pei (on or persons, who.
the paper on which the Bills arc primed.
j The perfou or who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, »f the bills.
Every period who has a&ed as a principal in
a>jy othci way, 111 the counterfeiting and utter
ing iiie (aid bills.
Philadelphia* 28, 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank ot the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LAJiS,and the alphabetical maik is the let
ter B.
They may be drflinguiihed from the genu
ine by the following MAKKS :
The paper of (he counteifeits is of a mort
tendn texture and gloifpy lurface than ikt
genuine, and there is no water.mark in them.
The letter C. ia the word Cafliier, in the
true bills, is ftrongfy marked-, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
stroke, evidently in an unfinifhed ft ate. The
letter a in the wotd demand,, is biadly formed
and the whole ill done, and there is no
comma at the end of it. as there 'is in the
genuine bills.
The marginal device, is much darker in
the falfe, than in the genuine bills owing, to
the shade strokes being coarser, much nearer
together, and conlequently much more nu
merous. This d.fference ftrike&the eye at fir ft
view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will be paid for apprehending, &
prosecuting to convi&ion the above I
defcnbejl Offenders in refpeft to this, as to
the last bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Prtfident
ol the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, Pr<;lid-eß,t of the
Bank ol North <\ni£iica.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
pc#ive Boards.
TO BE SOLD;
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible fituition, —also a Country Seat
within 6 mitts of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of Jand meadow, the
House is not exceeded bymany in the vicinity
of the city, in size, or coaveni<£rxe.
For particulars apply to-the printer.'
V
A New Novel.
To the LADIES of Philadelphia.
This Day is Pukhjhcd by
MATHEW CAREY,
118, Market street,
Prior, bound, hvc eighihs of t dollar, sewed
in marble paper, hall a dollar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
Jn Two volumes.
By Mis. ROWSON, of the New Theatre,
Phladelphia, Author of Vifloria, the Inl
quifitor, the Fille de Chambre, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given
the following characlu'.
IT may be a Tale of T ruth, for it is not
unnatural, and it is a tale of real diltrefs
Charlotte, by the artifice of a teachci, recom
mended to a school, from hnmanity rattier
than a convi£liou of her integrity, or the re
gularity of her former condutli, is enticed
from her governess, and accompanies a young
officer to America—-The mavricge ceremo
ny, if not forgotten, ispoQponed, and Char
lotte dies * martyr to tlie incooftanc* of the
over, and treachery ot his friend —The lito
tions are artlels and aflfe&ing—the deferip
ations natural and pathetic ; we fliruld fee
tor Charlotte if such a peifon ever existed,
who for one er or scarcely, perhaps, deserved
so severe a punilhment- If it isafiflion,
poetic justice is not, we think, properly dis
tributed
Said Carey has ju/f pubTtjhed
A 2 sheet map of Kentucky
compiled by Elihu Barker, price ore dollar
and two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Germany, Spa ; *,ltaly, the United Provinces,
the Netherlands, and the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars.
Map of New Jersey—Hals a dollar.
Maps of Vermont, "Couneftitur,Delaware,
Georgia Price three eighths of a dollar
each.
April 29. tuth&s3»r
Lately Pubiifhed.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Seconb-Strest :
THE Hiitoiyoj New-Hamj.ftii, t, iiom ike
Discovery of the River P'i (cat aqua—bv ft
rcmiaJi Belinap y D. D. 3 Vols. Pncc in
4 1 -2 Dollars.
The Fovrefter, an American F*bie, b. ;ig a
Sequel to the Hiilory of John Bull ihr C<c<itu<er.
Prce, 75 Cents.
A Discourse, intended to commemorate <he
DifcovCry ot America by Chrittapfier C h\m
bus; delivered at the ot the H'ftrrrical
Society in Maffachuletts, O&ober sgd, 17^?,
being the completion of thr TJviid Ctiimv,
since that memorable event. To which are
added, Four Difftfrtation*., couneOed **ithibe
SlKHbr. Puce, s<rC<*ms.
March 17. tutft&f3w
—NO. 2.— ~
Second Jlreetf between Market and Che/nut
ftreetSf Philadelphia.
POYNTELL'S
AMERICAN MANUFACTORY OF
PAPER HANGINGS,
WHERE he keeps up a constant stock of
ten thonfand pieces tor sale ? comprising every
variety ot* colours, in grounds sud figures, ol"
the moll modern and tally patterns, for eve
ry part of a bouse. The perfection attained
in this manufactory, in neatnels of
vorkmanlhip, durability of colours, variety
in designs, and good quality ot t'ne paper, w»il
be found to exceed any European papers at
the fame moderate prices.
An elegant variety of flch fancy feftoon &
narrow borders, and of stucco and otlier co
loured pannel papers. » *
Plain grounds made to any colour or Grade.
Wholefaie orders for any quantity, from
the country or for exportation, executed oo
a Ihort notice, on advantageous terms, on
usual CTedit.
In addition to the above aflortment, be has
a beautiful variety of
French paper hangings
of very fuperinr qu.ility, (Paris manufjftory)
with a variety ofßich Borders.
April 25 tuth&;2w
ESSE N C E
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold by Dr. Lek 9 Golden-
Squarty London.
THE pub'ic is offered one of the mod
efficacious and fafe medicines, th;»t ever ap
pea red, for that most excruciating pair, the
Tooth-Ache—the numerous instances oif its
happy effects, in relieving the alJUfted, have
now brought it into u liverfal etlimition; it
not only relieves the rooth-actoe, but is of the
u tin oft service in curing the SCURVY in the
Gums, in preventing the disagreeable smell
that is produced from linfound teeth, & will
occasion a sweet breath; it like wife prevents
the teeth from decaWng, and will be found
a general preferverof the and Gums
Sold in Philadelphia only at
Poyntel/'s Stationary Store,
No, 2i, Secoud llreet.
April 24. tutli&s 3W
»*•'" — 1 1 —1 ■■■■■'■' ■ '
PHILADELPHIA:
Printed by JOHN FENNO, Nj 3
South Fourth-Sti set.
i <■»