i
'
EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 129 of Vol. V.] Tuesday, May 15, 1794. [Whole No. 525.]
}uft Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and hot' landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes, , „ .
A few baits Holland Duck,
Ditto Oznaiurgs, •
Holland Sbcetjpgi
Juniper-Berries, .
Gla/s Ware, •viz. Tumblers and Mug:, va
rious fines.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square andjtat bars,
Hair Ribband, A'o. 4*
Dutch Great Coats, . .
A quantity of Junk and Oakum,iSJc.iSc.
FOR SALE BY
. THOMAS. KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is .fvr Sale —
(haulif application b( made within a few Jays ;
, atlierwife Jbe -will take freight for Amjler
dam. . . - — ; - — ■
March I, 1794. d —
For Amsterdam,
U The new faft-failin£, copper
' bottomed SHIP
|m ADRIANA,
iSi K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT 6f live oak and cedar and wasin
tesjde.d for, a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient, fpted. For freight or pallage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. PatTengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794 dtf
For Sale or Charter,
// NDROMA CHE,
(A n A merican bottom )
— John Moore, Majler.
IS a ft out good velF-*lj about Two years ©ki, —
burthen 232 tons, has only made three ycry
agfc 1 ?, and nviy be Tent to sea at a fmal] ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
March 21. dtf
> For Baltimore,
BALTIMORE,
Perry Benson, Matter.
' Bntthen about (40 tons, is intended to fail
ae foou as her inward caigo is diftharged, un
less freight (houi'd offer to detain her.
For freight apply to the Captain on board
at Hamilton's wharf, or to
SAMUEL cS 1 MIERS FISHER,
JVho have for Sale,
A FEW PIPES
Cargo TeneriiTe wine
And a lew pipes Sweet Do.
Excellent Sherry Wine in quarter casks
London Porter in 42 gallon ca(ks
White and Red L<ad and Spanilh Brown
Tin plates in boxes
An a'X Ttjnent of Ealt India Fans, Nan
keens and Silks
With a general assortment of Merchandize
as lifua),
sth Ma. 5, 1794 dtf
Madeira, ")
SHERPiY, (
• PORT, WINES of the firft quality
LISBON, & |
TENERIFFE J
Old Jamaica Spirit, Antigua and Well India
Rum.
Coniac, French and Peach Brandies
Claret and Port Wine of a superior quality
in cases.
Win: Cyder and Vinegar, in pipes and hhds.
Corks in Bales, Havannah Segars in Boxes.
Philadelphia Porter, in Calks and Bottles-
London do. in do. do.
Philadelphia Ale atid Beer in do. do.
London do. in d<->. do. and
Cyder ;n barrels and bottles, prep»redfor ex
portation or immediate use,
FOR SALE BY
Benjamin W. Moris,
The corner of Dock and Pear Jlreets,
Where he lias provided suitable stores and
, vaults, for the reception of
WINES, &c.
Which hf proposes to ftote or dispose of on
com million.
Captains of vefTel* and others fupplicd with
any of the above LIQUORS bottled, and sea
stores in general put up. %
My 9 tti&f2m
NOTICE.
THE Subscriber acquaints the gentlemen and
forties, Retailers of Dry Goods, that
On Monday the 12th injl.
At 9 o'clock in tbe-inornirg, he will have rea
dy for sale, at his Wholel'ale Warehoufe,No
117, north Second street, opposite to IVlef
frs. J. \V. and Win. Gibbs,
A NEAT PARCEL
DRY GOODS,
Ju/I imported in theJh'vp William Pe>m,fr om
London,
. Consisting of' a-) afiortment of
Sattins, modes & perfi-
narrow corded Dimities, and
fame Ittdia Mufti nsi
Louis Ofmorit,
Who has also for fale y
A QUANTITY OF
Hooking Ghtffes, Framed^
Claret in caies of superior quality,
Champaigne Wine, and a lew
Boxes' Spermaceti Candles.
May 7. dtf
City of Waftiington.
THb. Subscribers to the Articles of Agree
ment of the u Columbian Society" are re
quested to meet at Mr. Richardet's Tavern
in the city of Philadelphia, on Mondav the
26th day of the present month, at 12 o'clock
in prdcr to choose a board of Managers, &c.
I in conformity with the 9th article of their a
greement.
James Greenleaf.
N. B« Dinner will bs ordered on tlie Table
at 3 o'clock for such of the Subscribers as
may choose to pass a social hour after the
oufinefs of the day is finiflied.
May 5. dr?6M.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogflicads and in caies of 50 bdttlcs each.
ALSO,
_ATew cases Champaigne Wine j
• MADEIRA..
In pipes, hoglheads ancTquarter caiks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGH4N,
No. lit, South Front lireet.
Jan. 2, 1794. dtf
Advertisement.
The Editor of the American Star propos
ing to publilh his paper DAILY, without any
augmentation of the present price, is obliged
to i'ufpend the publication of it until the 15th
inft. on account of some arrangements.
May 5 3t
Wharton and Greeves,
Have removed their Counting House from
Wate- .street, to Morton's wharf,
Where they have for Sale,
Madeira and sherry Wine,
fit for immediate uft
Gin in cases,
Souchong Tea,
Black Pepper,
RttJJia Matt!,
Corks,
fefuits Bark,
Coffee, and
Eighty Hhds.prime Tobacco.
May 5. d—f,t.
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Mai ket-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery,
Defizned to exhibit in a new point of view
its effe«s on morals, iniujlry, and the peace of
focicty. Some facts and calculations are offered
to prove the labor of freemen to be much more
proiudivc than that ot Jlaves ; that couniriesjare
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the neceffaiy conclusion, that
slavery ii impolitic as well as unjnjl.
Pr 1 ci 25 Cents. dtf
February 15.
Advertisement.
M. CARPENTIER, an inhabitant of St.
Domingo, going to Baltimore in the ftage,loft
on his route the Jth inft. a POCKET BOOK
containing several letters and papers, parti
cularly a draft for 8250 livres or one thousand
dollars, in favor of Messrs Zacharie Coup
ltian and Co. of Baltimore.
Whoever shall return thep ocket book and
papers to M. Carpentier at Baltimore, or to
the Printer hereof, shall be rccompenfed for
their, trouble.
May 7 \ d3t
v REMAINING
OF THE
Ship India's Cargo,
FROM
BENGAL.
A small aflortment of
BALE GOODS,
2p bigs COTTON of good qual'tv, which
vtould probably mske an excellent remit
tance to Europe, and a
Quantity oi PEPPER
For Sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
Who his also to dispose of
Barcelo: a Hand't's. in boxes,
Holland Gin in cases.
Souchong, Hyson, and Tonkay Tea,
A quantity of Brimstone, (Sec.
Majr 10 d3W
JUST PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOBSON,
iiiokfelLr, at the Stone Hcufe in Secondftreet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA,
OR A
Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, and Mifcel
laneons Literature,
ON a plan entirely new ; by which the dif
ferent sciences and arts are digefced into the
form of d .ftin<st tieatifes or systems. This
volume contains the articles, medals, medi
cine, metallurgy, metaphvfics, methodiftsj
Mexico, micvofcope,midwifry, and a great
variety ot biographical and mifceiluneous ar
ticles, illustrated with nineteen copperplates.
{ y3T The tables of logarithms. &c. which
were deficient in the tenth volume, are sub
joined to this.
Eleven volumes of this work are now pub*
lifhed, and the XUth is in some forwardnefs.
On thefirftof September, 1792, the price
,<>f fubfcript\ion was inert afed TEN dollars on
all fe'tsnot taken before that fftie. The sub-
T«**ption i 5; ft ill open on these terms, and if
price will be railed TEN dollars more, on
jujy copies which may be l'ubfoibed for after
that period.
%* As many of the fabferibers have taken
only two, three or four, &fc. volumes, they are
earnestly requested to take op and pay for the
remaimng volumes, as it bccomes difficult to
complete the setts, and the publiflier does not
hold himfelf bound to make up any setts after
the firft day of J uly next.
April 22. m&rtl 6w.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b<gs leave to of
fer his Cervices to his trie 11 ds and others, in the
line ol a Stock Broker. Thole who may please
to favor him with their bnfinefs, may depend
upon having it t ran failed with the uimolt fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Bolton, or any
other partof the United States, will be ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
| m&thtf
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Houses or Public
Offices,
Two brick 3 Itory Houses,
HAVING 6 loonis in each, with fireplaces
beside garrets, fuuate on the south westerly fide
of Dock ltreet, between Pear and Walnut
streets. Enquire of
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
April 17. ,tuth&sit
Concluding Sales.
THE Subicribcr having entered into Co
partnerfliip with Mr. lohn Bartholomew in
the of Sugar Refining, wiildifpole
of the
Remaining Stock on hand
CONSISTING OF
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By Wholesale at Prime Cojl for Cajh.
John Dorfey,
No. 22, North 3d ltreet.
April 12. tiithficsow
r HE office of the President and Dire&orj
ef the Insurance Company of North
America, is removed to No. 107, South
Front street, being the south east Cori er of
From and Walnut streets.
May 1. t&fi m.
A
Philadelphia.
Extras of a Letter from Columbia, N. IV.
Territory April 2.
As to the army I have it not in my.
power to inform you of the intended move
ments ; they are near a hundred miles from
this, and it is probable to meCongreis,
ofteu receive official accounts before we
are poflefled of facts in this settlement. ,
I flatter my felf fomethiug will be done
this campaign—you remember my story .
of the bees, by looking at the map you
may fee the line between our country and
the Indianlands; fiomthe State of Pennsyl
vania to the great Miami down the the
Ohio, the lands have been fairly purchased
from the Indian tribes, or in other words
they have received such presents as inclin
ed them to draw off from and relinquish
all their right to the abo¥e described lands ;
IromPennfylvaniato thegreat Miami is our
couutry, the lands over the Miami being
in pofieflion of the Indians, we call that
the Indian country, therefore as scon as
General Wayne crossed the great Miami
he was in the Indian country and 1 am in
hopes his army likothe bees will thisfpring
begin to swarm ; the worst thing that per
haps could havehappened was the pretenti
ous of the Indians to vvifha peace; the whole
of which I believe to be nothing but dpli.-
fiou deceit and artifice, for nearly from thr.t
time they have seemed to doubletheir vigi
lance on the.efcoits and the infant settle
ment ; they are generally in Columbiatwo
or three times a week in the night, and fre
quently steal our horses and scalp our valu
able neighbors and citizens. About todays
ago they killed one of my neighbors Mr.
David Jennings, a man of excellent charc
ter as a citizen and chriftian. lam afraid
Congress will be deceived by the Indians
and consequently not forward reinforce
_ I hayg nftfii heen furprifetLjhat
lome of our fellow citizens who are not
opposed to war, in point of principle,
should view the present war as being an
unjust one, fay the war is about the In
dian lands of which fay they, we are driv
ing to deprive them. I dont think that to
be the ground of the present war ; the fact
is they have received a valuable consider
ation for the above (lefcribed land, from
Pennsylvania to the great Miami; and not
withstanding, have to my khowledge been
near five years plundering and scalping the
citizens of the United States reliding on
those very lands for which they have ac
cepted a valuable consideration and this
they have done long before our government
exerted its powers tofubdue them. For my
part I not only deem the war to be a just
one ; but I believe it the duty of our go
vernment to protest its citizens, and altho'
the measures adopted have been unfortu
nate yet I cannot but feel gratefull to go
vernment for the exertions they have made, f
although 1 know they have done no more
than their duty.
For the Gazette of the United States
Some ftri&ures on sundry taxes report
ed by the committee of ways and means,
to the House of Representatives in Con
gress, and lately difcufled in Committee
of the whole House, may deserve notice
—and are humbly ofFered to the conside
ration of Congress and the Public.
I ft. Land and labor ought never to he
taxed. They are the feed, the embrio,-
the original principles of all our supplies
and all our wealth. The farmer who hf s
purchased and cleared land, and f\Veats all
day to raise bread, has done his part t< -
wards the support of the country, and it
is no hardlhip for men who eat his bread
to pay him for it, and excuse him from
Taxes too.—The firft tender germing and
shoots of every fruit, should be carefully
nursed and prote&ed; for the lealt op
preflion and burthen, will lefTen & retard
or perhaps wholly prevent their perfecti
on • but these remarks, as far as they re
late to a land tax, are now unnecef&ry,it,
jr. '
. '•a|H||lH^HH|H^^^^^
' < -
, I
'
>:'-•* v ' 'i*>/U'\ - * »jr-"
' ■; . , I ' ••;■■.• •'■' • ■■:■;,
: vain than this expectation —the cloud low
ers hedvily over them ali, ant? they all
cxpeCt that their OWII tifne will come in
, course, and the belt thing they can hope
■ for, is the chance of UiyiTcS in Poly
-1 ' p'ierne's cave, viz: That of being the
1 lalt to be eaten.
•6th. Where the expenfce of co!lastion (
or any other embarralsments, vexations,
■ and plagues, rieceflarily attendant on any
1 tax amount to mote than the value of
the tax it never ought to be irtpoled—l
conceive this will be readily granted—and
1 therefore a Stamp-Duty is inadmijjible. A
1 knowledge of the various stamps neceflafy
1 in every species of writings is a trade by
itfelf, which the honelt people of the
• country will never learn ; but if they could
• learn this, (tamped paper will not always
be at hand, and every obligation wrote
1 on paper not properly (tamped is a nulli>
ty, &c. See. The embarra'iimcnts, Vexa
tions, nullities, injuries, loiTes, Bcc. hence
arising, will amount t® four times the
proceeds of the duty, if it (hould be all
colledted and paid into the public treasury.
011 the whole* when a sum of money
is wanted, either in a nation or private
family, one way of raising it, may be
much eafierthan another—andlhe c-afieft,
and molt convenient method ought ever to
be adopted. A man (hould never raise
money by felling feed-wheat—the tools of
his trade—his house furniture, children's
bread, so long as he has goods enough for
the purpose, which are provided merely
for file, not for use. So a (fate (hould
never impose a tax, which will embarrass
or discourage, or wound the bsfinefs and
induitry, or feelings of the subject, whillt
there are fufficient articles of luxury, or
other meichandize which are convenient
objects of taxation ; and out of which
the neceiTary monies may be drawn, with
110 loss or damage more than the fimpls
account of the sum paid ; and as such ar
ticles are matters of general consumption,
the tax thence derived will operate with
more equability and due proportion than
any other tax whatever.
This leads to an answer of a question,
which never fails to be put whert this sub
jeCt is called up—viz : You object to the
proposed tax, can you give us any substi
tute ? I answer, 1 can in plenty—we have
many very expensive articles of useless, &
hurtful luxury, wholly untaxed, or light
ly taxed, which would afford a very pro- I
ductive fnbftitute, which would have the j
- who. of d-imiipiuary nrv^TdlelTcn their j
consumption—viz. Silks of all forts,
Jewellery, plate and plated ware, Dia
monds and other set (tones, fine Gam- J
bricks, Laces, Feathers, and many other {
gewgaws and baubles, which might be
taxed at 20, joor 100 per cent, without I
any inconvenience, and the whole present
import may be encreafed so far as may be
necessary to make up the deficiency.
It has been objected that sundry arti
cles of the excise are as much luxuries, as
the imported ones which 1 recommend. j
I allow that whiskey, country Rum,
Snuff &c. are as real luxuries when made
at home, as when imported— and I (hould
have no objection to taxing them, if the
collection could be made without being
coupled with, and partaking of the ca
pital mifchiefs, unavoidably incident to I
every excise. I
Citizen op Philadelphia. I
Philadelphia, May 12, 1794.
From the Philadelphia gazette.
To the reasonable Citizens of the United States. I
XX/'HEN Congress resolved to build fix I
V V Urge Frigates for the proteflion of our I
commerce Irom the Algerine pirates, to appro- I
p. isle a large sum of money to purchife a peace
and rati Tom our unfortunate citizens, to fornly
our pons and supply our ar f ena)s *
w.' pleased : Ihe zealous atlen.ion to
nal defence and the preparations againlt j n f u i, I
the auxieivro redeem the miserable fufFererv at'
&r >nincr »'" f <^ r -K 1
were lubjtcts of general apptaufe. ' ,
a u ?° ne Y is waD,ed Pay for all these
good things the tone is changed and people be ( '
Conrnrercets taxed than <
■ t can already well hear, and in cafe of war i,
wII yield little ; thit is tkerefore but a (lender i
rcfource. Land mu st not be touched ; ihat i s
> » a g r ee that is a proper obirft • a I i
may live very happily and lle P ver J c f• 1
?' But "cife, is an odious ihinL-vo, 1
must not touch domestic manufaflures, WeU if !
ommerce cant be laxed, if land cart't borax I x
f manufactures can't be taxed tho- of fupeifluou ]
luxuries, pray vvhatu to be laxed, where i, d
monty to come from to bund the frigate, 1o
fe.rnr f w "!' Aig,frs ' ,o " nf °™ PC
<pt V«s, to fort, ty your harbor,., r 0 purc P nafc
ar mmun ,t,on and military store. ? vou
rou borrow. Bui loans are as odious as excises • t:
funding fyltems „ e badge, ol fl„ery j iod lfyou ' c ,
* I
•won't lay taxes to redeem your loans, who
Will be tool* enough to trust such a government ?
That's true. Wnat a have not
kUI feme gold or filvcr mines! I hen there
would be no difficulty. Worse Hill, for the
people would 1 ecotne idle, agriculture would
decline ; rnunuf ttufces would expire ; all put>-
I'c lpjru w 'ulo be enfeebled, and we should
becomc ihe flavooi the fv ft foreign invaders.
Beware my fellow citizens, of tfiofe persons
amongst us who excite you againtt a govcr» ra '' l
which is (Training every nerve to proietl u
afamft your enemies { foreign emillaries wi 1
rejoice if the people to pay taxts, for then
your enemies may iulnit >ou with impunity.
If you fee newcomers clamoring again ft lixes
and inflaming you againftthc governmen?, you
mayjuftly fulpeft some sinister design. fr when
danger threatens from abroad, we are dif.uni
t"d at home, what >yiil becomc of our indepen
dence ?—roufe therefore, let every man contri
bute his share towards the defence of his coun
try, and »eprobatc those who under the cloak of
patriotism, are lapping the foundations of that
excellent without which we (hail
soon fall a prey to internal feuds and foreign in
vaders. The man who at this critical moment,
witholds his contributions and thereby exposes
the United States to ruin, (hews cleaily that
while he preunds to pa hotifii>,.he is nothing
bettei than a fi-lfifh inierelted person, worthy of
public execration. WARREN.
Foreign Intelligence.
FRANKFORT, March i.
| At the last Assembly of the States
; of the Circle of Swabiaat Uhn, which
; took place about thd latter end of lalt
j month, to take into consideration the de
mand of the Court of Berlin, to supply tUc
Prtrffrarr aftTryrmthe Rhine with provisions,
the majority of fufFrages was wholly un
favorable to the claims of the Pruflian
Cabinet; and it was even thought useless
to consult the other Circles on this subject.
It has been resolved on the contrary, to
fend an EJiafettc to the Emperor to solicit
his protection, and to induce him that the
above mentioned demand be withdrawn.
Meanwhile the Triple Contingent is" resolv
ed on, and they are already preparing to
pick out of the mass of the inhabitants, a
Militia of 40,000 men, who will be divid
ed into regiments, well armed, and pro
vided with regimentals.
The Courts of Wurtembergand Baden,
have already carried this measure into ex
ecution .
With regard to the Circles of Franconia
and Bavaria, intelligence has been received,
that they have positively refufed the demands
of Pruflia ; and the Eledtor Palatine of Ba
varia, who seems to be the least dil'pofed-t®-
approve of the plan of AVaR™, made a
formal proteiVagainft the Convention ot'.the
Six Circles at Frankfort, written and issued
by the Elector of Mentz.
The resolution which may be taken by the
Circle of the Upper Rhine is not yet known.
The Pruflian Minister, Count Hardenberg,
has been sent to the Landgrave of HeiTe
Caflel, to induce that Prince by negociation,
to give his vote in the Assembly of the
States, in favor o the requiiitions of the
Cabinet of Berlin.
His Pruflian Majesty fmd : ng that his plan
of iupplymg his army has been rejetfed by
lome of the Circles, and that of the Court
of Vienna, recommending the riling in a
mass, has gained the preference, has mani
ieiled his disapprobation of a general arma
ment of the inhabitants of the' Empire.
I The French commissioners dine almost
daily with General Kalkreuth. Their ne
frociations go on but slowly, and it appears
that they have not brought with them a fuf
iirient sum of money to pay off the affignats
limed at Mentz during the siege. They have
been obliged to demand frefh remittances of
the Committee of Public Welfare at Far is.
UNITED STATES.
CHARLESTON, May 1.
Capt. Rolando, of the brig Cygnet,
from New-Providence, informs, that before
PI u r the x fchooner Liberty, Captain
u t' I'°, m New " York > arrived there,
who had clcared for this port, and accord
ing to his account, was blown off the coast,
and obliged to put into that island in dif
treis ; where he communicated the refolu
i° Congress, for laying an embargo
on the .vessels in the United States. f n
conftqucnce of which the Governor of the
Bahamas immediately dispatched a packet
to England, to give information thereof
to the ctourt of Great Britain.
This information produced an immedi
ate rife in the price of provisions in the
Bahamas; and rice fold at a guinea the
hundred weight. S
DIED, on Tuesday l a st, i n the 70th
year of her age Mb. Mary St. John, wi
dow o. Mr. Audipn St. John deceased.
NEW.YORK, May i O .
Europe at this moment presents a fpec
•acle more interesting and august than was
before «hibited on the theatre of
\
this earth—France, with an arm* of ~
hundred tboul'and men, combatiji-r h a ts
Europe, and a body of 60,000 infirm,
in the heart of her te.:itones ; th , whole
country fubjeft to a high military arillo
cracy or to marlhal law : P ar ; s and "
towns distressed for food ; jealoufyand diT
trtiil reigning in the Convention ; n art ;
diitradied with violent diffentions, and al.
ready calling for a dictator: vet a.niHft
all these evils, a brave soldiery defeit tS
foes and threaten Europe with deioij
on :_lhe combined powers, defeated and
alarmed, making every effort to s upport
their tottering cause; compelling allneu
tral nations to take part in the quarrel •
Prussia wavering, and retained in the wlr
only by money ; the Germanic Hates rac
ing their peaiants in a , na f s to resist 1
French troops and to finifh lhe horr £
picture of deflation and.carnage, the R„?.
lians and lurks are preuarin^
hostilities What will be the l a st 7""*
the cataltrophe of this great, this compl'
cated political tragedy, God only know
But what madnels, what infancy woald
t be for America to engage in / he
test ; a contest that may kil for years-x
that may overthrow all the arts and the
uleW initiations, as well as government!
of Europe, and reduce mankind to a itate
of barbanfm and despotic power! Super
u mm ? J l C ° nflder this c °»teft to b
what it adtually was at fir ft, a ftru g fc fw
liberty on the ptrt of
France. But there is Willing more in
this controversy. A general devolution
in Europe will probably be the confe.
quence . and such 9 change is K likely to
end in general despotism, as fll the J fta .
blifhment of free governments. Look
at a.l the great civil commotions of
Greece, Rome Carthage, England
have they not all ended in tyranny ? Eook
at all the great conquests of ancient and
modern nations, and find one that has end
ed in freedom. Violent parties and fadu
ons always ead in reducing the weaker
party to the iron rod of despotism. The
military powers of a (late of war are in
conlmcnt with a free government ! it is
now an equal chance that some Cefar or
Cromwell, either by address or the plea
of nccefiity, will put himfelf at the head
of the French army, render himfelf die
tator, and make the civil power bend to
the military. And the people, tired of
war, ordiltrefs, of feftfon and the guil
lotine,- may otwd undei a dictator's ban- ♦
ners to Ihelter themselves from the fury of
the ttorm. God grant that such appre
hensions may be ill founded !
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 13.
A Correspondent asks whether it confifis
with the independent spirit of Americans, to
lacrifice our own interests for the benefit of
any other nation ? If the real motives with
many for taking off the Embargo was that
France might be the more ealily fupphtd
with provisions, and if the taking it off will
again expose our vessels to condemnation in
the W eft-Indies, is this not preferring the
interests of trance to our own fafety ? *
Extradl of a letter from New-York, dated
yesterday.
" We are just returned from feeing Mr.
Jay embark—ln consequence cf a note in
the Daily Advertiser, that he would go on
board at to o'clock, upwards of a thousand
people assembled before Trinity Church,
from whence they escorted him to the ftip—
they gave three cheers on his going on hoard,
and as the ship passed the Fort, thty fired a
fahite.
Mr. Jay has taken paffagein the fiiip 0-
hio, Capt. Kemp.
ExtraS of a letter from Bojlon, dated A
pril 30, 1794.
" I observe your remark refpe&ing the
returning reason of some of our folks—it
is indeed matter of rejoicing that they are
not quite delirious—l think fobt'r reason
ing prevails more than it has for some
time part ; and hope in time it may rule
the present wrong heads. But so long
as men aim at felf exaltation above all
things, and will facriiice every thing to
climb the ladder of promotion, so long
will our country Be cursed with dich bawl
ing mock patriots.
" The Court Printers of this Town who
publilh the Chronicle, and some at the
Southward, publish papers which are
sources of corruption and nuisances in a
free country ; but so it is, and our honest
patriots iri government, must not relax
their exertions because they receive abuse
from such enemies to their country's wel
fare.
a'
J •
" I am sorry to observe that theft an
ties have too many representatives in a cer
tain aflembly. The retaliatory propoii
tion, the fequellration of British debts,
the non-importation, and other measures
of a similar com] ilex ion, may discover
zeal, but do not bear the features of
found sense. I trust some fcjlks deceive
themselves egregioufly by supposing their
flaming speeches will lender them popular
—the lober sense of this people will weigh
all pretensions to their favor in the balance
-of reason and confiaeration—may Jifhcrt
for popularity be forever disappointed.—
This period, calls for real patriotism and
found wisdom—every consideration of du
ty and interest, require, that we Ihould a
void the war, if possible ; and I conceive
it is possible to avoid if. While the Eu
ropean nations are raving mad, we expedt
to fiiffer by their delirium; but we are
not under the necessity of fighting the
lunatics. It gives pleasure to the think
ing men in this part of our country, that
Judge Jay is nominated to goto London
to endeavor to obtain jultice—He is an
excellent ihitefman, and will if any man
can do it, bring the mad-caps to reason.
I very much doubt the propriety of con
tinuing the embargo since the appointment
of an envoy.
" The Chronicle informs us, that we
have two good men in our delegation to
Congress—it is rather Jlim to have but t-jjo
oat of fourteen—however, we have plenty
at home who burn with patriotism to take
the plates of the twelve—these seekers,
if we take their characters from themselves,
are excellent trien—thefe are the constant
scribblers in the Chronicle."
ExtraS of a letter from Briflol, (England)
dated March 4th.
" Says, there is little talk of any thing
but AVar and deftruftion—One neighbour
is far a King, the other for a Republic—
people are much divided in their sentiments,
as much as in the American war—God only
k«ows how it will end, for my part, I think
the times will be very scAd, we are so op
prefled, that I think it will not hold long—
and am afraid it will be here as in France.
A plain Countryman on a visit the other
day to the Loganun Library, wherein there
are many Latin books, being collections of
the works of certain authors, labelled on the
hack "Virgillii Opera" " Hefi idis Opera"
" Luciani Opera" &c. after locking over
them went up to the Libririan t and very
gravely obferve3~" that he thought "the
founder of the Library had been a Quaker."
So he was replied the Librarian " Indeed !
then I am very much surprized he should
have collected such a number of Operas
The foUoiulttg important article is ctpied
from a Charlejlon paper jitjl received.
CHARLESTON, April j6
The following final decree refpe<sHng the
ship Laurens, of this port, has lately been
received.
Resolves of the provisional executive council
of France, relative to the American ihip
Laurens, prize to the French letter of
marque the Sans Culottes, of Honfleur;
23d Fremaire, 2d year of the French Re
public, one and indivisible.
ON the report Said before the provisional
■executive council, by the minilter for foreign
affairs, relative to the prize made by the pri- 1
vateer Sans Culottes, from Honfleur, of the 1
American (hip Laurens, now detained at
Havre de Grace:
Considering that the said ihip Laurens is
truly American built, that the Captain and
crew are Americans ; and whereas it is con
fident with the justice of the French Repub
lic, to bear refpeft to the neutrality of the
United States of America, and faithfully to
maintain the treaty made in 1778, according
to the second article of the national decree
in convention, dated 23d Brumaire:
Considering also, that the imperious cir
cumllances in which the republic is ii volved
in regard to provisions, give her the right to
seize, even in neutral bottoms, all the com
mejlibles which were destined for her ene
mies ports, provided the owners ars indem
nified by receiving the full value of said com
meftibles :
The members of the provisional executive
council, in virtue of the powers vefled in
them by the decree of the 28th Brumaire, 1
have taken the following resolutions: 1
Art. 1. Rice and other provisions of 1
the moil urgent necessity, which may be i
on board of said ship Laurens, or which 1
may have been landed, will be purchased 1
on account of the republic, and paid to 1
the owners, the price they would have c
been fold at, at the port of their deflina- ]
tion r {
Art. 2. By virtue of the decree afore- j
said ; the freight will be paid to the Capt. c
of said ship Laurens, fnch as it has been \
fixed in the bills of loading ; a just in- c
demnity will be allowed, besides for de- t
[ murrage, according to the time of the
detention of said (hip.
Art. 3. The (hip Laurens will be re
leased as soon as the provilions shall be
lauded.
Art. 4. AU'fentences from ?ny court
of admiralty, or other resolves passed
heretofore in rcfpe£t to said (hip Laurens,,
will be entirely void and of no sol ce.
Art. 5. An indemnity (hall be grant
ed to the owner's of the letter of marque
the Sans Culottes, to make up for the cost
and charges, which -the profecutmg of
that suit may have occasioned.
Art. 6. The tninifter of the navy is
requested to fee that these resolves be
deeply executed in what concerns his de
partment, and for the execution of the
remainder referred to the mihifter for home
and foreign departments.
Copied from the remitter,
JiESAUGIER, Sec ' y pro tem.
. Certified to be a true dopy,
DEPERREAU, Co-secretary for
the 3d division of the navy.
Seen by DALBARADE, minilter fcr j
the navy and the colonies.
GENERALS.
PICHEGR U AND HOCHE.
From a London Paper of March 18.
The former was a Francifcanv and of
the fevered of his order. In the year
1789, he threw off the cowl, and served
in the National Guards. His fine form, hit
courage and his attachment to the Repub
lic, railed him by degrees to the command
of the army of the Rhine, and afterwards
to the command of the army of the North.
General Hoche is only 27 years of age.
His military talents are great, and he pos
sesses a degree of equanimity which the
mod unfortunate events do not difeoncert.
In 1789 he was a common foldfer. He
is the son of a plaifterer at Amiens. Ga
dignan, La Fayette's Adjutant, firft ob
served the manner in which Hoche diding
uilhed himfelf, and his eager defiie to
make himfelf mailer of the military art.
He learned him to draw and to take plans.
His progress was so rapid, that he soon
raised himlelf to a situation of the greatest
importance.
For the Gazette of the United States
MR. Fen NO.
"X was much pleafeT an ac
count of the Toads drank at Daily's Ho
tel on the third instant—they are eharac
tcriftical of good Republicanism, and when
contraded with those said to have been
given at the Civic Feast, go fully to prove,
that Republicanism and how
ever analogous at fii ft fight, are found by
daily experience to be essentially different.
The twelfth toast for instance, drank at
Dally s, is, or ought to be the creed of all
11 ue Republicans—Whereas, the majori
ty of those given at the Civic Feast, were
damped with that diabolical spirit of in
tolerance, faction and persecution, so com
mon to the Democrats of the present day.
Having thus far, in the moll unequivocal
manner approved of the toasts at Daily's,
yet I must confefs, that it is somewhat diffi
cult to divine the scope of the last volun
teer, which we are told was as follows:
" The Mountain, its summit the Heaven's,
audits lafethe whole Earth."
It is true, that many persons, when
conversing upon general topics, are very
apt to employ phrases or technical terms
attached to their particular profeflions—-A
fea-faring man for example, will fay, that
a cozc\\fails well—A (hoe-maker, that his
neighbor is a good soul —A carpenter,
that every thing squares well, &c. & c .
Perhaps then, there could be no impro
pnety in supposing, that when the worthy
Speaker, was called upon for a volunteer,
he was pondering upon the practicability
of making a loaf of sugar as large as the
mountain in quellion. The idea of a py
ramid, whose cone (hould exceed the dia
meter of its base, is quite new, and may
therefore draw forth some ill-natured re
marks from the Critical Reviewers—but,
what of that; are we always to be confin
ed within the tramels of propriety, when
•we wi(h to deal in the sublime > I trust
not, and more cfpecially too, at a period,
when things the leajl understood have be
come the mofl falhioflable. The Heathen
Poets, among their other crude notions
o , onom, calGeography,' were of opi
mon that the earth was stationary in the
centre of the Universe; and that the He»*
vens relted upon the (boulders of a stupen
dous mountain, .well known by the name
0 Atlas " Tile modern dogma therefore
...k• • . ; i ' V.- ••• -. _ .; _.
c ot a ißOMctaiijj whole summit is compared
to the Heavens themielves, feerrs to be
nothing- more than a revival of th* old Pa
e jranfyltem, w.th this difference only, that
Ji it was true that tlie iaiu mountain waj
t cornpofed of sugar, it might prove of in
-1 finite advantage to those timid thrift ians,
who, terrified at the difficulties attending
- the narrow and rugged path, would mount
- to Heaven with alacrity on the fides of a
: Si!oar Loaf. Indeed it is not improbable,
t but that all the Democratic Societies might
f mgrfce the attempt, provided they were
ceitain of meeting with goodJpiHts at the
s eiul of their journey. v
! By this Day's Mail.
PORTSMOUTH, May 3.
On Monday last arrived here the brig Re
becca, Capt. 1 reaick, in 25 days from St.
Euftatia, informs that the Engliih privateers
are all called in, and the Bermudiuns are gone
home—All American'Ve(H4s that have of
' ;t te been sent in for legal adjudication, have
r beer, difmiifed without any molaftation.
-fill kind of provisions were riling very
fact in the Weft-Indies.—And the people
there appeared extremely lorry that the
Americans have been so ill-treated by their
privaters and Courts of Admiralty— and
were greatly afraid that an Embargo had
taken place in Amtrica.
r PROVIDENCE, May 3.
1 Thurfdiy last, the Ekchange Coffee
« House, built by Major M'Lane, cppofite
the Market, was opened. In point of ele
l ganee and accommodation, it refle&s cre
-1 disc tjn the town, as well as 011 the pub
lic-spirited pi-ojedors.
The new and elegant Ship George
Washington, Captain Donnifon, of this
port, is arrived at Madeira, on her way
to India.
The Ship Hamilton, Capt. Rodman'
and Ship General Greene, Capt. Smith'
both of this port, are arrived at Bour"
deaux.
BALTIMORE, May 9.
Arrived, Ships Buchanan, Liverpool;
Adriana, Hart, Bristol. Brig Sally, Hick,
London. Snow Nelly, Dawfon, Ditto.
NORFOLK, May, c.
On Friday lall arrived the ship Molly,
C~pt. Clavk, from Havre de Grace
Spoke the 18th March, the brig Peggy
of Portsmouth, bound to London all
well. And 011 the 20th of April, in lat.
p W. and 27 N. fell in with the French
fleet from Virginia— was boarded by the
Ambuscade frigate.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA
A RRIVED.
Sloop Hanna, Croker, Charleston 12
Betsey, Davis, do. do.
CLEARED.
Brig Friendship, Howlaod, Boston
Sloop Samuel Smith Norfolk
Cspt. Cook failed from Oporto the
16th of March in company with the fol
lowing American veficls viz.
Ship William, of Newport, for Charleston
Brigs Courtney, of Norfolk, Norfolk
Fame, of Bedford Bedford
ICaty, of Boston, Boston
Schr.„ Betsey of Beverly Beverly
He left at Oporto the following vefiels
from the United States, difcltarging their
Cargoes viz.
Ship Catherine, of Philadelphia
Betsey, Newbury-Port
Snow Hebe, Philadelohia
Brig Maria, . Boston
Atlantic, New-York
Laura, Kennebeck
Betsey, Ifwitch
He saw a letter from Capt. Wharton, of
the ship J. Bulkley from Lisbon, dated Feb.
2id, wherein he mentions that there was a
number of American vefiels to fail for the
United States, with a convoy about the mid
dle of March. The sth inft. spoke off Cape
Hatteras, the brig Moggy of Baltimore, all
well.
It was reported at Oporto, that the Al
-gerines were out 3 or 4 in number, but they
had no certain account thereof.
F ° r LONDON >
penn,
NOW lying at Jeffe and Robert Wain's
wharf, to fail with all convenient speed. For
freight ot passage, apply to
JOHN FIELD & SON,
Or,
JESSE & ROBERT IVALN.
Ma y *3. dtf
1 f.
PentfylwMa Hospital, sth Ma.
$rh. 1794.
At a Meeting of the Contributors, the fol
lowing gentlemen were elected
MANAGERS.
Jofiah Hewes,' Pattifon Hartfhorne,
Owen Jones, EUiftoh Perot,
Samuel Coates, Bartholomew Wiftar,
Joseph Pafchalltr I.awrence Stckel,
Thomas Penrofe Thomas Morris,
Samuel C.'ark, Samuel Mickle Fox,
And
Mordeca'i Lewis, Treasurer.
At a Meeting of the Managers, sth Mo. 12,
*794, the following Contributors were *
choferi.
FHYSICJANS.
Dr. Adam Kuhn,
Dr. Thomas Parke,
Dr. Benjamin Rush,
Dr. William Shippen, juri.
Dr. Casper Wiftar,
, Dr. Samuel Powell Griffiths.
X übhlhed by order of a board of Mana
gers.
SAMUEL COATES, Clerk. *
For Sale or Charter,
phoenix,
Burthen about eight huildred barrels. She
is fn compleat order, and ready to take in
her cargo. For terms apply to
JOSEPH ANTHONY & SON
Ma / *3- d3t
JSELFqt Charter,
Europe or the JVejl /»«'
THE BRIG
THOMAS >
Solomon Bunker Master.
Burthen about sixteen hundred ban-els, a
staunch good vend, and a prime sailer—For *
terms apply to the Captain on board, at
M'Cknachan's wharf, or to
JOSEPH ANTHONY & SON.
Philad. May 13, d 3 t.
WANTED IMMEDIATELY,
A good Pressman,
Who *. ill meet with conOant employ. Apply
loSuiqrrand Kamnierci.Nc. 85, Race-Sireu.
M »y '3. '794- ' d- 3 t
Sales at Auction.
On Thursday the 15th and Saturday the
17th mil. at TWO o'clock in the after
noon, at
John Connelly's Au&ion store,
Mo 1 78, South Front Jlrect 9
A CHOICE COLLECTION
book S,
In various Branches oj literature.
Catalogues may be had at the store as a
bo»e, and at No. 26, Spruce street, where
the BOOKS may be seen any time before the
sale. «
May 13. d s t.
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
May 14.
Will be performed,
A COMIC OPERA, called
ROBIN HOOD,
SHERWOOD FOREST.
The part of Clorinda, by Mrs. Oldtnix'
on, late MiJ's George, from the Theatit
Royal Hay-Market, being herJirJl appear
ancein America.'
With the original overture, by Baumgarton,
the reft of the muficsi accompaniment's
composed and feleited by Shield, with ad
ditional airs by A. Reinagle. With new
scenery, dreffiis, and decorations.
After the Opera,
A Scots Pastoral Dance,
Composed by Mr. Francis, called the Cale
donian Frolic.
In which will be introduced a Highland Reel
by Mr. Francis, Miss Willems and Mrs.
De Marque.
To which will be added,
A COMEDY, intwoa&s, called;
Who s the Dupe,
N. B. The public are refpe&fully acquain.
ted that there will be a performance on Thurs
day and Friday in this week, and that on
Monday the 19th inft. will be performed a
play and entertainment, as will be exprelTed '
m futur* bills for the BENEFIT of Mr
FENNEL. •Philadelphia, March, i 1794-
JUST PUBLISHED, 11
y .vIATHEW CAREY, ' t '
* , No. 118, Market Jlreet, t
I.HE FIRST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF „
Modern Geography: J
OR, A C
Geographical, Historical, ana
Commercial Grammar;
Ami ivefent (lite of 'ue 'Tveral a
nations of the ivorld.
CO{I>4IN.IN&,
I. Th« figures, motions, and distances of ■
the planets, according to the Newtonian fvf
t-m' and the latest' obl'ervations
2■ A general view at* tire. earth,jxoi'fidered
as a pla r; w<th'"i>veral utei'ul geographical I
ciefiri.r oiii ajid p tb'.eiils.
3 The % ai>d*divifi4ns of the giobe into
land aid water, continent* a"d islands.
4. The situation and extent of empires,
kin j00.u., states, provinces and colonies.
5? Thei: ilimatej, air, loil, vegetables,
proJuftioim, metal;, mineral*, natpial cun
oiiri-'s, feai, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
and akes.
6 T e birds ar-d bealls peculiar to each
coiir r
7. Observations on the changes that have
been an if wiiere observed upon the face of na
ture jiice the most ear[y periods of history.
6. The history and origin of nation 1 ?; theit
fot'rii* of government, religion, laws, reve
rues, tt<xes, jiaval and mifita* v llrength.
9 r>e genius,-manners, cultoms, and ha
bit i tne peopie.
i-o. T!iei. iguage,learning,arts,fciences,
man.»fa lures, and tou^merce.
it Fie c »ief c^tie* f ruins, and
artificial curi »lit es
12 The Jo igitude, latitude, bearings, and
dicta ices o4> ■ H-U .1 places from Philadelphia. ,
To which are added.
i. A Geographical Index, w!th the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
A Table ot the Cojns of all nations, and
their value in dollars and cents. {
3. A Chronological Table of remarkable
eve its, from the creation to the preient time.
By mill AM GUTHRIE, E/q.
The Astronomical Part corrected by
D . Rittenhouse.
To which have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herschell,
and other em ncnt Astronomers.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrct-d, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firfl: volume contains twenty-one Maps
a id Cnarts, besides two Astronomical Plates,
viz.
1. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world.
3. Europe. 4. Asia. 5. Africa. 6. South
America 7. Cook's dilcove'ies. 8. Coun
tries ruund. the north Pale. ,9- Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway, jtj. Seven United Pro
vinces. 11 Austrian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. 13. Seat ot war
in Fra tee. 14. France divided intodepait
ments. 15. Switzerland. :6. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
18. Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire- •
land. 20 Weft-Indies. 2i. Vermont. 22. Ar
miliary sphere., 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
the prtffs. Will be given the following Maps :
1. Ruflia in Europe and Asia.
2. Scotland.
3. E igland and Wales
4. Poland.
5 China.
6. Hndoftan.
7. 'J.;ited States.
J8- Bitifh America.
9. S'.ate of New-Hampshire.
j3. State of Maflathufetts. <
1 it. State of Connecticut.
,2. State of Rhode Illand.
13 State of New-York.
i - State of New. Je fey.
,5- State of Pen.ify'.vania.
16. ; tate of Delaware.
17- State of Maryland.
18 State of Virginia. '■
19. State of Kentucky.
20. State of Nor th-Carolina.
21. Tenneflee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia.
TERMS.
1. This work will be comptifed in two vo
lumes.
2. Surjfcribers pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
■"St (56 cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the succeeding volume
in weekly numbers, at a quar-'
ter dollar each, or else, when finifhed, at.
the fame price as the firft.
4. The fubfeription will be raised on the firft
day of June 1794, to fourteen dollars, ex
clusive of binding.
j. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
6. The names of the fubferibers will be pub
lished as patrons of American literature,
arts, and sciences.
It i» wholly unneceflary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American readers, that this edi
tion pofleflei, over every imported edirion of
any system of Geog aphy extant. The addit
tion of maps of the several date , procucd a
-1 very great expense, and from the best ma
terials that are attaiaable, (peaks such full
eonviftion oh this fubjeft, that it would be
difrefpeft to the reader's understanding to
suppose it requisite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
fi.nilar werk have loch maps baenevcr intro
duced.
- The emendations and additions which are
made in this vjork.are innumerable,and occuj t
in every page. The public are referred to f
the preface for a flight (ketch of a lew of j
them. /
The publisher takes the present opportu -/
nity of returning his most sincere thanks to
those refp. Aablc cbara&ers who have favored 7
huii with documents for improving the maps
of several of the states. He requests a conti
nuance of their kindness; and hopes that lucl
public spirited citizens, as are polfeifed oi Ij
:n'Ur documents, will favor him with theii
alfiftance in perfeClirrg his undertaking-
The extraordinary encouragement witb I
which he has been favored, has excited
in hisbreaft the warmest lentinients of grgti
tude—fentimmu w: ich time will not efface.
He pledges himfeTF to the citizens or the
Uuited States, to nether pains nor ex
p'enfe to render the pn-fent edition of Guthrie s
Geography improved, deserving of their pa
tronage. waftt
Lcheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39»900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars y tie dueling 15 P cr Ctnt. from
the Prizes—this Lottery confi/h of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
14,539 Prizes and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prite.
THE Direftbwof the Society for eflabiifhing
Ufelul Manufafturcs, having rel !ved to
ere# LOTTERIES for ratfing One Hundred
Thousand Dollar s, agiceably 10 an Ad of
me Lcg'fl ture of iht Si'ie of New-Jci(<-y, hav.
appointed the following persons to lupfrititend
and dire£l the drawing of thr lame, v z. N'cho
las Low, Rulus King, Herman Le Roy, Jjmes
Wat ton, Richard Ha»r»U»n, Abl j3l • Hammond,
and Cornelius »f the city oi New. York—
Thomas Willing, Jofenh Ball, Matthew M'Con
nei and Andrew ii«yard s ol the ciiy ol PhiU
delphia - His Ex « llfncy R»«chard Howell, hfq.
hlias Boiidui General El as Dayroo, Jaine a
Market, John Baya.c, L wis Don ham,
Samuel W. Stockton, jolhna M. Wallace, J fph
Bioomfifjil, and Elih of N w-Jer
f ey, wtio offer the follow tug Scheme nt a Lot
tery, and f>;- thern( vet to the public, that
rhcy w>ti tak every aflur n and precaution in
their power to have tnc Monies paijtl by the
Managers, from Hive* > time, a* jecetved, ii to
the Banks ai New Y Philadelphia, to
itrmain tor the rsur pose n [.iv!(i s Pn* s, which
fnall - be in.irjedia'ely d.fci argecl by a check
npoo one of th»= B-» k<.
SCHEME:
1 Pi 12c of 20.000 Dot ars is 20,000
1 10,000 10,000
2 5,000 ID.OOO
5 2,000 10,000
10 1,000 jo.coo
20 500 i<»,000
1 GO 1 00 1 o, OCO
300 50 15,000
1000 20 203C00
3000 12 36,000
8100 10 81.000
14,539 Prizes. 262,000
23,461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,c00
Laftdtawn number, 2,000
38.000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266.000
Tlje drawing will commence, undt'.r the iA
fpedionof a Committee of the Supcrinteudants,
as loon as the Tickets are fold,ot which timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendants have appointed John N.
Cumming, of Newark, Jacob R. Hardenbirg,
of New-fiiunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of .
Trenton, as immediate Managcu thereof, who
have given ample fecuiity for dtfchaigtng the
trust reposed in them.
I n order to secure the punctual payment
of the Pi izes, the Superintendantsof the Lottery
have directed that the Managers (halt each enter
into bonds in 4c ,000 dollars, with four fufftcient
fecurui s, to perform their iniliu6lious, the fub
itance of which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
(hall receive the sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he (hall imnidiately place the fame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit ot the Governor of the Society, and such
Ot the Superintendants as live in the city where
the monies JKe placed, to remain there nntil the
Lottery is drawn, for the paymntof the Prizes.
11. The Managers to take futiicienc (ecunty
for any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
refponnble for lhem.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ftra&s of which (hall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle
men, information will ibe given where tickets
may be had. r
February 24. lu&ftf.
N - O T I c e:
THE Siibfcriber leaving thic city fur a (hort
time, ha? empowered Mr. Thomas Potier to
tranfa&all buCriefsin his absence, holding his
tranfaftians a: Valued on
Louis Ofmont.
May 10 d t f
NANKEENS.
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
FOR SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April ii. mw&ftf
SHOES.
A quantity of stout well made Men's size
SHOES, adapted for tie Southern market, for
Tale a:
No. 36, North Third Jlreet.
May 6 mw&fiot
rhe Public are cautioned to j
ieware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
\b» Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
i'e-veral of which have off eared in circulation
within a few days pajl; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be dijlmguijbed by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank 'of the
' United States. v
ALL that have appeared havs the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
Tl*e O. in the word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M. would extendcon
fiderably above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
The i and fin the word promise are not
parallel, the /inclining much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the fti okes
of all the Letters are stronger and the defc c
in themargin particularly is much coarser and;
appears darker than in the Hue bills. Some
ot the counterfeits bear date in I79l—Wheflt
is the Bauk was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were issued in
j'lat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. lor their alphabetical mark.
They are printed 00 a paper nearly
to that of the counterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above defcnbed ; the engraving is better exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance 'f trie genuine bills.
The fine ruled fines thiough the word Twcn
/v, in the body ot the bill, are >n number th r
tech in the genuine b lis, and but twelve in
me counterfeits.
The wo.divmpany is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar B lis as delcr ibed a
bove, the 0 being iels than them, and others
following.
There is no ftroSe to the t in the word North
whe eas in the genuine bilis the lkroke is well
defined
The letter* tnt in the word to the
left hand at the bottom, do noi come down to
the line, but aire lb cut as to give an irregular
Appearance to the word, the Tw and go
ing Delow them.
ftie iignature I Nixon, has the appear
ance of b'ing written with lamb-black aud
0.1, and differs iroin Qther inks uled in
printing the bills and the calhiei's signature.
It is supposed these forgeries were commuted
iiHome ot tr«e Southern Stales, all the conn
lerfeits thai nave appeared, have cone trom
thence, and two persons have been apprehend
ed' 10 Virginia, on »l-b«*i»£j.he author
ot them. 14
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Person or Perform wholhall
discover and piofciute to conviction the teveral
offenders of the following descriptions or any
of them, viz.
The per(on or persons, who roanufa&ured
the paper on which the Bills aie printed.
The peifon or per tons, who engraved the
plaus.
The printer or printers, ©f the bills.
Every person who has acted as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing ihe said b.ils.
Pniiadelphia, March 28. 1794
dpril 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
ot the Bank oi the United Mates have appeal ec.
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
ter B.
They may be dillinguiilied from the genu
ine by the following MARKS ;
The paper of ihe counteiieits is of a more
tend rtexture and glofley furface than tke
genuine, aud there is no water mark in them.
Tlae letter C. in the word Cashier, in the
true bills is strongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
itroke, evidently in an unfinifhed state. The
letter a in the word demand, is badly formed
and the whole word ill done, and there is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
The marginal device, is much darker in
the falfe, than in the genuine bills owing to
the (hade strokes being coarser, much nearer
together, and consequently much more nu
merous. This difference strikes the eye at firft
view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will be paid for apprehending, &
prosecuting to convittion the several above
described Offenders in iefpe<st to this, as to
the last described bills.
THOMAS WILLING, President
of the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
pe&ive Boards.
~ TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
m&thtf
»
A New Novel.
To the LADIES of Philadelphia.
This Day is-Publi/hed by
MATHEW CAREY,
118, Market street,
Piicr, bound, hve-ei.hihs of a doll«r sewed
in marble paper, lull a dollar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
IN TWO VOLUM Es.
By Mis. RQWSON, of the New Theatre
PhMelphia, Author of Victoria,, the l n l
quifitor, the Fille de Chambie, 4c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given
the following character.
IT may fie a Tale of Truth, for. it is not
unnatural, and it is a talr «,f real diltrefs —
' Charlotte,.by the artißce ofa teache., recom
mended to a school, from hnmanity rather
than a conviction of her integrity or the re
gularity of her former conduct, is enticed"
from her governef , and accompanies a voting
t officer to America—The marriage cerenio
j ny, if not forgotten, i.postponed, a „d Char
lotte dies a martyr to the inconltancy of the
s over, and treachery of his friend —The f.ti,
; tions are artless and affefting—:he defcri,,"
j anions natural and pathetic ;we fhuuMree
. tor Charlotte if foch a person ever exided
_ who for one error fcarccly, perhaps, deserved
so feverc a punish nent. If it is a fiaio,;
, poetic justice is not, we think, properly dip
tributed
t. Said Carey has jujl publfbed,
A 2 ftieet map of Kentucky
compiled by Elihu Barker, price one doiiar
and two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of Frarc-
Germany, Spain,ltaly, the United Provinces
the Netherlands, and the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars.
Map of New Jersey—Hals a dollar.
Maps of Vermont, Comiefti.ut, Delaware,
] Georgia Price three eighths of a dollar
each.
. April 29. tuth&sgw
Lately Published.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street :
THE Hiftcxry of Ntw-Hampfhire, from the
Difcovcry of the River P feataqua—by J:
rcmi&h Belknap, D. D 3 Vols. Price in Boards
4 I 2 Dollars. '
The Forrcftcr, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the Hiltory of John Ball the Clothier.
Prce, 75 Cents.
A Difcourfc, intended to commemorate t!ie
Discovery of America by Chnllopher Colum
bus; delivered at the reqneft of the Hiliorical
Society in Maffachofetts, O&ober 23d, 179 7 ,
being the completion of the Thud Cent ui y t
since that memorable event. To which are
added, Foijr Dlfertations, connected with the
fub]u^—By the lame author. Price,
March 17. tuth& l 3w
" -NO. 2t —
Second Jlreety between Market and Cbefnut
JlreetSy Philadelphia.
POYNTELL'S
AMERICAN MANUFACTORY OF
PAPER HANGINGS,
WHERE he keeps up a constant flock of
ten rhoufand pieces for tale, comprifirg every
variety of" colours, in grounds and figures, of"
the moil modern and rafly patterns, for eve
ry part of a house. The perfection attained
in this manufactory, inperu iar neatness of
workmanlhip, durability of colours, variety
io design*, and good quality ot toe paper, will
he found to exceed any European papers at
the fame moderate prices.
An elegant variety of rich fancy feftoon &
narrow borders, and of stucco and other co
loured pannel papers.
Plain grounds made to any colour or shade.
Wholefa e orders for any quantity, from,
the country or for expo, tation, executed on
3 Ihort notice, on advantageous ternr, on
usual credit.
In addition to the above aflortment, he has
a beautiful variety of
French paper hangings
of very superior quality, (Paris manufactory)
with a variety of Rich Borders.
April 25 tuth&s2w
essence
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold by Dr. Lee, Golden
- - Square, London.
TH2 pub'ic is olfered oie of the most
efficacious and fafe frtedicires, ths«t ever 3p
peared, for that most excruciating pain, the
Tooth-Ache—the numerous instances of its
happy effects, in relieving the afSiCted,
now brought it into uiiverfal eftimati© B _»
not only relieve 1 ? the tooth-ache, but is of t
utmost Orvice in curing the SCURVY in t e
Gums, in preventing the disagreeable ttnc I
that is produced from unlou-d teeth, &
occadon a sweet breath; it like wife p- tven s
the teeth from decaying, and will. be f° un
a general preferverof the Teeth and uMS
Sold in Philadelphia only at
Poyntell's Stationary Store,
No. 21, Second street.
April 24. tutb&s 3^
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN F-tNNO, Nj 3
South Fourth-Street.
i