EVE
No. 41 of Vol. V.]
Peale's Mafeum,
HAS Lately rect 've<i a number of artie'er ;
among which-.ae the following ; That
rcmatkahle l»ud called the C«u-\*ater., or fcif
arfc-bill; The AvofcttCj commonly called ihc
Shoe-maker, becirufc o< its bi!l rejrtnbling a
crooked awl—The Long-leg*, commotrk call
ed the Black-bet, having f)eihap& the longell legs,
in proportion to the ftze of tht bird, of any .of
the feathered tiibe—The Slot in- finch, conrmon
lv called nmtlwr Cary's chicken—The Sra
fwallow. and various Gulls ; Hcfides a variety
oi Cranes, Curlews, Snipes, &c.
The f< nil 'vf a Whale and one of its Vertebres.
An Irulian hateful jn;icie **! c
Cllfiows ih f niffi wil-' j>c './<•, n.iv
iiij; very little kti •-•wK oi the arts, c.iri be 1:3
ignorant even ol ilvc i-x.tiiMKV ot" non arM IL-ei,
fiiouiii I'C 10 sot m !uf '■* haul Inn fi^net s In—
ir»'^nci'tf!'o* t»!J» as fhis, .snd <>th„r In<i<an it>«-
liulutJu'Cs n«>w in ihc Multnnn.
A ligtiificd Qmnce : The foe ci men ftuws
what a irmavk-'UJ* etftct a . d»y. watm fuuatio.n
has on fruit. 1' ifc now about Byt ars fiuce it
■was gathered ; and it was a real q. ir.ee, now be
come wood, ai least in appeiiiaiicc.
Preferred bv Mrs. Majifon ol Cliarlrftowp.
S. C.—a tool used by the Otaheitang 'n making
their bark clo?h t by pouiidiug the bait ou this
inllrumcnt rf v nod, it products the ribs which
refemblt* threads : the peifc£Uv straight and
equal lnes made in this extreme hard w>»od, by
men without the use of iron,are cur.out & won
derful.
Alio, a ro re made of part of the rigiJ
ir*p ot a wedei o* Kumika'ka.
Picfented by Dr.H.di, ot Lewis-town, a Squib
in lp riis : when thib f»fi> w.i-> :ou::'J, a ivrii r ;r
ot floors were append d to firings or ligaments
that projrfted from the front ol its he«d,which
©ccafmned a ronjcQuie, .as it i nor furnifhed
with luffceient fins to resist the violence of the
tide and currents, that it fattened wth thel'e li
gaments on whatever it found ai the bottom ; so
that the Rones answered the purpose of anchors
and th; ligamentsof a glutinous It' ky naruie,
that of rabies. Some of the stones are in the
fame phial.
A coilrSfon of Minerals and other Fofljls,
a»e now (flfptevd in drawers covered with gbl
and in a modewhich wiilfeeurc therm from de
rangement. To each specimen are affixed refe
rences lo a book Ol defer i prions., This manage
ment Of fpecinvns of the FolBI kingdom, ren
ders this paTt of ihe Museum very conveni rv
and fatisfa6forv,ind great attention will be paid
to the fvflemaiical order of th« m, and in mak
ing the AMclfary t flays of each : Also in giving
in a concise manner, the various uses they are
applied to ; theTtby rendering them the more
jr.tercfting to ihe public.
A Living Eik, of 2 years old, is just receiv
ed. By the account which monl Buffon gives
of the JKIk, it appears that he was not acquaint
ed with tins American animal; he particularly
omits all notice of the curious apcitutes adjoin
ing the eyes of this F.lk.
Cij" Complaints having been made that
the Southern fubferibers for this Gazette
do not receive it, till the intelligence has
been anticipated by papers previously re
ceived by other persons ; they are iniorm
ed that the regulations at the Poll-Office
in this city require that Printers Ihould
deposit their papers there, the day prece
ding the departure of the mail ; liewf
papers being, on account of their bulk,
sent by the ltages, which set* cis fcveral
hours before the mail is closed, occasions
this arrangement, for the winters
Persons at a distance who wish to re
ceive this Gazette, are informed that the
terms of fubfeription cannot be dispensed
with.—One half of the fublcription mo
ney, for the half-weekly paper lately print
ed and circulated by the Editor to all parts
of the Union, is yet due, either from the
fubferibers, or collectors—and as the pub
lication of a daily paper is attended with a
heavy expense—however solicitous the
Printer may be to difleminate intelligence,
it will appear, that persisting in his former
plan of fending his Gazette to every per
son who writes for it, without securing
the fubferiptions will prove ruinous in the
extreme.
The Editor most earnestly requests these
who are indebted for his late publication,
to make immediate payment—particularly
those who have received the arrearages
from fubferibers.—Some will rccolleft that
repeated afiurances on this point, have not
been realized.
(CJ- The Suhfcripiions for this Paper are
rapidly cncrea/iug. Upwards oj Five Hun
dred are Jlruclt off daily.
Advertijing favors from the friends and
patrons of the Publication, are refpedfully
folicittd.
€pwgctt e oC i)t (lltiitcti J|>f:
N I N
United States Register,
For the Year 1794.
Containing,
\ CALENDAR, wi»h the neceflary table:
+ jL fitted tor the Utitudecf the pi-nctpal town:
in the 'United S<ates ; fitu<<fon, rxteu', population
and GOVhRNMKNT U. S.
SUPREME Executive,
I.tCISLATUKfc,
Judiciary,
ital : 11 is
Lite Sup! erne, Court.
T) > of Arornjes. D >.
Kx r c u t i v £ Branches.
1) £ r A K T M K N T OF S/T ATE,
M n'ftets and Cortluls of the United States,
in toreign nations.
DEX A R T M £ N T OF THE TREASURY.
Principals ana Cl rjks oi ihc rvlptfcl ve of
fici's.
DE PA RTMfc NT OF War,
h; v ■ \. &c. <>f the army,
Mint * < t a 3 • ishmht,
OH-. v;s.
Abllraft frrtr the] iws relating to coinagc
Post Office Establishment,
Banks,
United Sra les,
North Amciica,
Sla-e bank*. with their capitals.
LITERARY Institutions.
American Plnlolophical Society, &c.
American Academy ol Aits and Science?.
National Manufactory at Paterfon,
sessions of the Courts of the United
States.
Western- Territory.
State Governments.
Abftr-j£t from the constitution of racb ftafe
P.incipal officers, executive, legislative and
judiciary.
Militia,
Officers of the Banks, capitals, dates of in
corporation, periods of limitation, ex
tent of propeity, &c.
Univerfincs, Colleges and Academies,
Societies, Icienufic, humane, political &c
Exhibiting hi-is general and compieh> nfive a
vi«- was pofliWe the internal police, the state
ot literature, art>, commerce, and fociety,»n
the fcveial ft?.trs.
Price 50 cents.
Prmt'd bv Stewart and Cochran, No. 34,
South Second ftreer, and John M'Culloch, No.
1, norrh Third ftreer, and lold by ihein and
the book fellers. J dn « 2 7« (|6t
Sixty Cents Reward.
RAN AWAY 'rom on board the Biig Polly,
laying at Marcus-Hook Piers, on Sunday
ti.o 19th inft. an Apprentice Lad, named JOHN
COKLINGS ; 14 years ol age, about 4 feet 10
inches high, a little pittrd with the small-pox,
had on when he went away, a red round-about
.jacket,. blue trowlers, a round fur hat, 'black
handkerchief, new shoes with square plated
buckles. Whoever apprehends the fa id I ad, so
that his matler may j*et him again, (hall be en
titled to the above rewaid.
N. B. All Matters of vcflelsare torbid carry
ing him off, or any person harboring said boy,
as they may cxpcdl lo be deali with according to
law.
Back of the New Library, betwi
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs hi*? friends and
the public in genera), that he continues
carrying on the bufincft of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
for doors or wiudow-ihutters,don* in tiie most
elegant manner, and with diljiatch.
Orders from tlie country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended tu.
December 3 : ' i dtf
G AD V E
Wednesday,
Just puU'iJhed,
THE
l/.ft of Councilors admitted to DJaftife in
Di, o' nations T'."f;.'cnt in '!
U'MM'ci Sl.TtC*.
C<> rr> tr.i <-■' I.Oilts,
OiTiccis ..f rhr with iheir -rcfppc
t '.vc A
'' r' ,r ts,
of-thCvKxci.o, «viih their rcfpettive
ids ai-'t lii'Vi'i s,
L ; l< - i tiuti.ilJ. 1 1 1 >' ■<
AMr? >" ♦ rtx-j i >!i » »;•
s, &cc
ue laws,
Statement of the pu : lie debt,
of L'^ht-houfts,
—-ol rii for the fuppoil
• ' G vcrnrtient
ary'.N >llic.e,
A' uo ■> ;i. '•
OftKCrj,
Ai it & from the law eft?blifhing the office
L it of p- !l towns, v ub ihcir rcfpcftive
dn'!ances 29 cftabhfhed by the Poll-Mas-
U; (>«u »ai.
Latitude and Longitude of the prin
cipal towns in the United States and their
v.ritwiv.
N. J
Capuin WILLIAM PAUL,
Northern Liberties.
"5-
NORRIS-COURT,
and Walnut-Streets.
A N
anuary 2 <?, 1 794.
Foreign Intelligence,
O o 1
By late Arrivals at New-York,
Fiom the LONDON GAZETTE.
Saturday, Nov. 16, 1793.
WHITEHALL, November 14.
The itfpatch if IVhich the ftlloiving is an extract,
was this morning received at the office of the Right
Hon, Henry Duniat y bis Majfiys fecrctary of
ft ate for the borne department.
.9 I R y
?Nmy d J • itch of the 24th September, I bad the
bono:-1;• inform *ou that the enemy held been more
itil.ve tign previous to that period ; tb, y occuuou •
ally cannonaded our dijj'erent pojis, and bad ap
proached bodies of nun to various points to attrdcl
our attention. On the 30tb Sep.ember, at night,
tbiy entered upon a daring and desperate proj.tf that
met ivitb a mofl unaccountable faccef, "which fortu
nately ivas nottfhng duration. The po[i of far on
being the point at ivhich the enemy deter mined to
male an attack to render tbemfelves maflert of Tta
lon ; they carried tbeir deftgn into execution on the
night of the $C tb September. The picquet of sixty
men being driven from the Pas dc la Afafque, about
day break, retired to the redoubt of Fur on ivhich
theyfound abandoned by the Spanish garrison that bad
been placed in it. 'The. enemy sometime after Uok
possession of the redoubt and of the ivhole summit of
ibis almofl inaccejjible mountain. By the poffefjion
of the redoubt oj Far on, their communication ivas
op;r, with La Valette and ivith Le Garde, ivhere
the head quarters of General Garder.e are ejlablifh
ed; from both which places they received conftderable
reinforcements. 7he fort of Faron uuhicb is below
the redoubt, having made the ftgnal of being pressed
by the enemy and in want of immediate fticcour, Go
vernor Elpbinpone aided Capt. Torrinuno ivi'.b 93
men of the regiment to the garrison of that
pofl. At about J o'clock in the morning of the Ift
October the report came to Toulon that the enemy
ivas in of ike ivhole summit of the mountain
of Faron. The absolute necefjity of an immediate at
tack of this pofl being obvious, the mofl practicable
means of regaining the summit of the tnovntaiu in
tie face of an enemy, it-bo ivere hourly receiving
reinfir cements, and -who ivere prepared for tbeir
defense, became the only fuljeil of difcufjion. Admi
ral Grairnay Brigadier General Seuleado of the
Spanish troops, Brigadier General Prince de Pigna
telle commanding the Neapolitan troops, Lieut. Col.
Chevalier de Revel, Governor Godal, FJpbm-
Jione and myfelf having affemb/ed at the Government
Floufe, and having consulted intelligent persons ac
quainted ivith the poffble qcceffes to the Mountain
on the ftde of Toulon, it ivas determined to make the
attempt on the iveflern ftde. The troops of the gar
rison baiting been afJembUd on parade during the
time of our deliberation, I detached Capt. Bereford
of the 6<)tb regiment ivith 50 men, to fo>t Faron,
to co-operate under the command of Governor Elph
injlone in cafe any opportunity Jhould offer of making
a diverfton on the fide tf the redoubt of Faron, in
favour of our main attack, if iveJhould be so fortu
nate as to reach the summit of the Mountain, ivbieh
is 1,718 feet above the level of thefea.
The B'itifh troops upon guard at the gate of the
tout, bavi.;\ been relieved, J ivas enabled to collect
250 Britijb rank and fie, to ivhich I added 140
cbaffturs, and 16 3 grenadiers, of tb" Pidmonttfe
troops (the remainder being dispersed in dfiant
ports.) Ibis corps composed the column uuder my
; cammand, defined to ascend the face of the mountain
from the fort of Grand St. AntAne. (I haa also
ordered-SQG Neapolitan troops of the regt.de Bur
gogne,tojoin my column ; but from the difference
i)flanguage,fome rniflake occur ed in the delivery of
the orders, and those troops did not join me.) The
column of admiral Gravitia, ivhich took its route to
wards the Vall on dc Valdourdin, to afcaid by that
pass, mas composed f tivo companies of Pidmon
tefe, )haffeurs 3 183 Spanish rank and file, and 400
Neapolitan grenadiers, and a detachment of 100
men of the regt. de Boulogne ; brigadier ere tier als
Squierdo and Pignateli, -went with ibis column.
The two columns marched from Toulon at 8
o clock. At the redoubt of Grand St. Ant'ine, I
formed the troops under my command, in alternate
buudreds of Britijb and Pidaontefe, Jireftin* them
to keep in small platoons, as nearly in a line as
pojfiblt, during their afent, and to form to the firji
party that Jhould arrive at thefummit. An advanc
ed party of ZOO of the enemy, appeared at the top of
the mountain y and gave their fire at a great difiance,
retiring immediately and allowing the troops to gain
the height 'with no other objlacle, than that n bid the
rugged andaltr.ojlperpendicular acclivity presented;
the labour and fatigue of the ascent, bring considera
bly increased by the great heat of the day. 'The
column of General Gravina, gained the top of the
mountain soon after us, luithaut having met it'ith
any refinance. Capt. Mtncrief ivho led the right
divifton of my column,pufhed across the mount, in, and
pojfejpd himfelf of the pass de la Alafque, n-hich
had been abandoned by the enemy. The top of the
mountain of Faron, is interfered by a funejjibn of
transversal heights, of steep af-evt from t/,e \vtjl,
and rijing fuccefftvely to the eajlernmoj} extremity of
thi mountain, where the redoubt of Faron is placed.
'en Chsfnut
T I S E R.
R
CON'TIXI' ED.
TOULON, O&ober 3
lit cs
[Whole No. 499.]
IVe found the enemy drawn up on the frcni of
this I.JI ridge. The rock to the north, on the rr Oi
oj tbt'pojit;or y takets by the enemy, ends in a preci
pice (Wo ve the fallen tie bavures ; hje gr>vnd which
lay between the right of the enemy and the coltitr.ii
under my ctvwiuhd t is a low ridge / forming the
narrow head oj a deep valley, which defends to the
fonthward\ widening itfelf by a gradual turn to the
eajiward, fa as to form ajleep fide to the left funk
oj the enemy s p'jiiion, and ending on the fji ftrnmit
of an interior ridge of the fountain dirc£i!y above the
tour as Toulon.
The enemy were formed in a fine on the front of
tije eminence, and with.n mullet jb-jt of our pojittou.
In front if (he right of the enemy s principal l'nc %
and on the cr.Jj oj the ridge wbub forms the head
oj the valley, they Bad an advanced <juard of about
50 men ; in the rear of their right jlaok, which
did not reach up to the precipice, a body of about ICO
men were placed on Echtllon ; a cOnjiderab > body
was plated on toter.ee behind the icjt oj their line ;
and in front of their left funk was placed an adven
led guard, fmita? to that on the tight ; in the rear
balj way between the redoubt arid the firjl line, o
(hong cot at/in «*«'/.r placed in rejnve ; and the pa
rapet of the redoubt was li ed with men. The pojl
oj the enemy commanded very conftderably over every
part oj the position which we were obliged to occupy,
'7be left column, under my command, arrived frjl
in pr cj nee of the enemy. I placed the greatejl part
oj it under cover of a riftng ground, behind the tiof
roxv crefl oj the valley over which I was to pass,
when the attack jtoud be made The column of
General Gravna J'oqn after also in pr eft nee f
the enemy the farmed his line on an height, which
extended beyond the left oj the enemy*s po/ftjcn y and
was feperatedfrom the height on which I bad ta
ken pojl by a branch of the great valley, running to
the wefiward, and forming a dip between the pojls
occupied by our reff>et?ivc divifons. I immediaU ly
sent notice of our being in preface of the enemy (by
an ofjic er, who teas obliged to make a cOnjiderab 'e
circuit Jto Governor Elpb.nfone, who was at tort
l'arnn.
A brifle fire begun by the advanced
polls of t!>e enemy, took place at this
time between them andgeneivl Gravina's
line, and a fire alio commenced 011 the
fide of Fort Faron by the corps under the
command of Co', del Pen to, again ft the
Potence, (or return line) of the enemy's
position, which could not however, at that
time, produce its effects, and was soon
after very judiciously dil'continucd. At
I could plainly perceive from the polt 1
occupied, that no imprefiion couid be
made from a fire across the deep part of
the valley, and that there was a deiedl in
the disposition of the enemy's left, I went
to the right, to communicate mv obler
vations to Gen. Gravina ; and it was then
agreed that the corps under the command
ot that general should its lighv,
into the valley, and march, under cover
of the ascent on the left of the enemy, to
attack them on that flank, which they
had injudiciously placed upon the extreme
fi-mm it of the hill, so as not to have the
command of the' whole descent as they
might have had, by placing themselves a
little below the brow. It was agreed al
so, that the left column under my com
mand, (hou'idjendeaver to attract the atten
tion of the enemy during (his movement,
and that when Gen. Gravina should have
attained a certain point, [ ihould move
forward, and the general attack be made.
On my return to the left (General Gra
vina having already began his movement)
I produced my whole force to the view of
the enemy. Ihe operation answered cur
utrnoft wilh.
Ihe enemy marched reinforcements to
the right of their line, and appeared in
expectation of an immediate attack from
my column. During this period Gen.
Gravina proceeded down the valley, and
came unperceived up the fide of the hill
occupied by the enemy ; the line of march
round this steep and rocky ascent being
explored, witii infinite intrepidity and
judgment, by Serjeant' Moriio, of the
Spaiiilh marines, and 3 foHiers of hs corps
to within pistol shot of the enemy's line.
1 he whole' creil of the mountain of Fa
ron being a hard grey rock, without vegi
tation and in fonie parts broken into Oiarp
and Jooie pieces, which render walking
very difficult, the march of General G-a
vina's column was neee.Tariiv flow. As
soon as he got upon the point agreed
upon, the British of my co'emn, led by
Captain Mcncrief, of the 11th regit-" t
- and preceded by Thomas Gialiam F.fq.
of Ea gerooil, (a gentleman of indepoi-dent fortune) who was attracted toTou
loti by the extraordinary event of its being
in our poffctlion, to whole abilities eve
ry occaiion here, and to whose diitinguifh
ed aud exemplary gallantry on this occa
iion, the service ha- been infinitely indebt
ed ; and the Piedmontefe chaifeurs, led by
licutenantcolonel the Chevalier de Revel
advanced in two columns, supported by
the Piedmontefe grenadiers, uudei'colonel
the Comte de Forax, the ridge being too
narrow to admit of a line.
A very heavy fire from the greatest part
of the enemy's line checked our progress
for a fliort period at somewhat lei's than
half the way, between the ground from
which wc had adv need and the enemy's
poll. Here a continued tire was kept up
between the enemy and the British Pied
montefe troops under every disadvantage
on bur part of the mod exposed and con
fined situation. The column of General
Gravina in mean time advanced in excel
lent order, under cover of the hill ; the
two companies of Piedmontefe chasseurs,
with the NcapcJitan granadiers and Spa
nifli troops advancing with a regular pro
gress, and well supported fire, towards the
left of the enemy's line, whilst the de
tachment frcra fort Faron, under Colonel
Comte de Porto, recommended their at
tack which they made a real one, ii.stead
of a me;c diversion, as at firft intended.
At this instant the advanced part of
General Gravida's column having nearly
gained the brow of the hill, I perceived
the set of the enemy's line begin to wa
ver and crowd together, and ordered the
Britifn and Piedmonteie under my com
mand to ruth forward, which they did
with the utinoft spirit and alacrity, under
a heavy and galling fire of the enemy,
which, however, was of very (hort dura
tion, for the whole line of the enemy,
with thfi different corps of reserve, (400
of their troops having abandoned the re
doubt before the conchifion of the adtion)
w 're thrown into confusion, and the rout
became general; fcveral were killed in
the pnrfuit, but a very considerable num
ber indeed were quite destroyed by pref
fmg each other over the precipice in their
flights Fifty-feven of their dead were
collected, without descending into the val
ley to w 1 ich they fell from the precipice.
An officer and fifty prisoners were taken,
and, by accounts received from deserters,
but one quarter of their original number
hare rejoined their forces. The moil mo
derate calculation upon the accounts of
the prisoners and deserters, states their
Tii!mber3 to have been from 1 Bco, to 2000
men, all troops of the line, and the flow
er of La Bar's army.
Our loss has been inconsiderable, com
pared to the difficulty and hazard of the en
terprize ; I have to regtet the loss of Lieu
tenant the Chevalier Faibar, of the Pied
montefe Chalfeurs, a gallant active and'in
telligent young officer, who was killed at
the commencement of the firft attack
made by my column.
The whole army heard with regret that
General Gravina, in the course of his a
ble and spirited exertions at the head of
the Neapolitan grenadiers, received a
wound in the leg, which obliged him to
retire from the field ; 1 am happy howe
ver, to add, that the wound is not
likely to be attended with any serious
consequences; his place was ably supplied
by the courage and conduct of Brigadier
General Chevalier Squierdo and Prince
Pignatelii. The chief loss has fallen up
on the column under my command, from
the very exposed situation in which the
attack was neceflarily made, and where
the British and Piedmontefe juftified the
mutual confidence which each seemed to
repose in the (teady support of the other.
Indeed fir, I (hall do injustice, were I
to particularize any corps or any nation
where all were so equally meritorious, not
only in the intrepid finnnefs with which
the whole of this brave body of men en
countered the dangers 'of a difficult and
almost desperate attempt, but for the pa
tient fortitude with which they bore hun
ger, third and fatigue, the troops having
received only a small portion of bread at
the time they departed from out of the
town, and being from the want of neces
sary supplies at Toulon without canteens,
no officer or soldier had a drop of water
to fefrelh himfelf wi'h, during the space
of 12 hours, in a laborious march up pre
cipices supposed inaccessible, and over rug
ged rocks, cxpofed to the burning fun—
I can only fay, thst the mutual esteem
and applause, which the troops of thedif
k> cut nations so strongly manifeft towards
each other, is the mod honourable pan#-
gyric that can be bestowed upon them.
I have the honour to be, &c.
MULGRAVE,
Ad. Brig. Gen.
I enclose a copy of the account I re
ceived from Gov. Efphindone of the at
tack' made to the eadward from Fort Fa-
roil.
October 6,
Lad night a reinforcement of 355 Pied
montefe troops arrived from Sardinia
The second division of Neapolitan troops
confiding of 2000 men is arrived in the
harbour.
MULGRAVE.
LaMulague, Oft. 4, 1793
My Lord,
IN conformity to the plan fixed on for
our joint opeiations, I went up to Fort
Faron, and by shewing the head of diffe
rent columns of the troops, kept the ene
my constantly "jealous of an immediate at
tack on the right, and kept up a well di»
rected fire from three 12 pounders on the
redoubt ; but it was not only my opinion
but that of all the officers commanding
corps, that a direst attack in a work so fi
tuatcd and full of men was impracticable;
I therefore ordered some parties of sixty
men each, to be ready to climb up the hill
the moment Gen. Gravina and yourLord
fhip fnouid advance on the top of the
mountain, and a column of 200 to follow
and support them, without fitting until
they should arrive at the summit, and a
part to turn the hill lower down on the
right, to cut off or impede the retreat,and
all the guns of the fort to fire about fifty
yards in front of the troops, and to flop
the moment I should make a signal. This
plan was admirably executed, and I hope
produced the best effect ; Col. des Pcrefta,-
colonelof the regiment of Majorca, dis
tinguished himfelf much in conducting
the attack, Captains Terrano of the 30th
and Beresford of the 69th, had infinite
merit for the intrepid manner they led
their men up an almofl- inacceflible moun
tain, under a severe fire. The Comman
dant of the Neapolitan troops and ma or
Huftein of the regiment of Royal Louis
were not less diltinguifhed on this occasion,
and the whole behaved with exemplary
firmnefs. Lieutenant Alexander of the
navy,and Capt. Dexter of the marines per
formed mod material services by the well
directed fire from the guns, 011 the ene
my's troops and works.
I have the honor to be, See.
G. K. ELPHINSTONE.
CONGRESS.
House of Representatives.
January 20.
In committee of the whole on Mr. Madison's
resolutions.
Mr. Lee spoke.as follows
The importance of the refolutiofls un
der confickration, is fully manifefted both
by the length and solemnity of the present
difcufiion, and the universal solicitude
which pervades our fellow-citizens. I have
been deeply irapreffed with the awfulnefs
of the present crisis : I have felt the mag
nitude of the fubjeft befoie us. I have
listened with attention to every thing
which has been offered to our considerati
on. I have been informed, I have been
inflru&sd, I have been delighted. My
mind which hesitated, has been enabled to
form its decision : And though, Sir, it
may be unneceflary after this declaration,
to take up any of the time of the commit,
tee, I hope I (hall meet with their pardon
and indulgence, for soliciting a small por
tion of their attention. In the present
jealous and censorious times, when it seems
to have become fafiiionable, not more to
enquire into the principles of measures,
than into the motives of public agents;
the talk of explaining the realons of his
conduct, is neceffariiy imposed on every
public servant, who does not wilh to have
his motives ir.ifinterpreted. But, Sir; not
withstanding I feel the neceflity of explain
ing myfelf on the present ocfafion, both
from the consideration I have mentioned,
and to exhibit to my constituents (whose
virtue, industry and value in society, claim
every attention, from me, to their inter
ests,) the reasons of my conduit ; I should
not aflc the present indulgence, if the fiib
je& had been altogether placed in thole
lights, ii which it mod forcibly strikes my
mind. And under this imprefiion, Sir,
I should be unworthy of the feat I hold
here, and of the confidence of my fellow
citizens, if I withheld aught, which ap
peared to me condiwive to their interests,
and the general welfare. Before I pro
ceed to a detail of the particular consider.
atious, which I mean to bring into the
view of the committee. I hope I (hall be
pardoned, while I attempt to eltablifh some
general abftraft principles, which appear
to me important, to guide us in the pre
sent discussion : And though at firit view,
they may seem remote from the fubjeft, I
hope the committee will patiently attend
me through the process of my reafomngs,
to those conclusions which will naturally
result.
I consider, Mr. Chairman, human life
as a system of expedients, whether viewed
individually or colle&ively. Man as an in
dividual, is ever in the pursuit of happi
ness, and is particularly occupied in ap
plying those expedients which, under ex
iiting circumstances, are most likely to
produce it. These he varies according to
the changes in his own mind ; and the
obitacles which continually occur against
his plans. Every day presents some new
evil to be avoided, or some new good to
be obtained : He avoids the one and pur
sues the other, by the belt means which
the state of things will afford. To do this,
he will vary his means, fulpend or accele
rate the execution of his plans, ascircum
ftances dictate. At all times he mult be
the bed judge of them, and of what in a
bv exilting ilate of this, is neceflary to his
happiness. Man alio, is a various animal.
Hence the diversity of human chara&er
and of human pursuits. Each individual
takes a different route to happiness; and
being the Left judge in his own cafe, has
a right to do so.
Societies being the aggregates of indi
viduals, are animated by the fame princi
ples : And in the great family of nations,
as among individuals in a state of nature,
each nation is the best judge of, and has a
right to pursue, according to existing cir
cumstances, those meafi:res which it thinks
necelfary to its happineis. Every nation,
therefore, has the capacity and the right,
to form such a government, and enact
such laws at every period of its existence,
as the exigencies of its filiation require.
Of these it is the best judge, and no other
nation has a right to interfere in the cafe.
According to this principle, we have ac
ted in the various changei that have tak
en place, in our political snftitutions. O
ther nations in all former ages, have exer
cised, and in all future ages, will continue
to exercise the fame right.
As the circumstances of individuals are
various, a mode of life which will produce
one man's happiness, may produce another
man's misery. The circumstances and dis
positions of nations, are as various as the
circumstances and difp ifitions of individu
als. And as among individuals, or.e mode
of life and one system of pursuits, will not
produce every man's happiness, so neither
amongst nations, will one form of govern
ment and one system of laws, suit every so
ciety. Hence the diverfify of governments,
which have existed in all countries, and in
all ages : And hence the revolutions and
changes,which have been contiuuaily made
in governments and laws, as the exigencies
of things required them.
From these principles, I deduce the
following conclusions : First,—That eve
ry nation has the capacity and the right
at every period of its existence, to provide
for its happiness, according to its own
knowledge of its situations and interests.
Second, —That therefore, the probability
is, that every nation under the existing
state of things, has that government and
those laws, which are best adapted to its
manners, and most consonant with its cir-
cumftances.
1 will exemplify these chara&ers—We
kuow that the government of Turkey,
would not suit us:—We do not knew
that our government would suit the Turks.
Leaving the Turks to judge for them
selves, as we judge for ourselves, the pre
emption is, that they have a government
bell suited to their manners aud circum
stances—We know we have a government
best suited to our circumstances and our
manners.
I will not attempt to detail those cir
curaftances, which have given rife to the
variety of governments, which now ex
ist, and have existed in all the former ages
of the world : On this fubjeft, volumes
have been written, and volumes might be
written. I only mean to establish, that
every nation, in every period of its exis
tence, is the belt judge of what is neces
sary to its happiness, and has those politi
cal institutions mod adapted to its filia
tion.
Thisis a true republican doctrine/' It
is founded on the capacity of the people
to judge for themselves. We know that
we have the capacity to judge for ourfelve».
We (hall be proud and vain indeed, if we
deny to other nations the capacity to judg
for themselves. We have the government
bell suited to us—the p.vfiimption is, that
other nations, have,governments belt suit
ed to them. Therefore, in difcufltng our
relations to other nations, I do not fee
the propriety of introducing the nature
and principles of their political institu
tions. On a qultion like the prefect, th~
only proper enquiry is, whether our in
tercourse with any nation, has ?. tendency
to add to the comfort, the wealth and the
the Itrength of the society : And not
whether it has a tendency to alterand im-.
prove our fociai institutions; of t'nefe, th;
ibciety in every period of its exigence
will always be the molt competent judge.
Viewing the principles I have stated, as ir
refragable, being founded on the nature of
man, the universal usage of nations, and
our own p raft ice. I will now turn my at
tention to some of the arguments which
have been urged during the difcufiion.—
In the course of my observations, I may
occaiionally apply the principles which I
have established. I (hail not go into a de
tail of commercial facts. This has been ful
ly done, by persons more competent to
the talk : —the committee must be fully
poffefTed of them. I iTiall only consider
fuc'i observations, as involve important
principles.
My colleague, (Mr. Madison) wlio in
troduced the resolutions, and he has been
followed in the idea by every other gentle
man who has spoken in support of them,
said that the present govoniment origina
ted from the incapacity of the confedera
tion, and of the individual states to regu
late our commerce with foreign countries,
and seemed to intimate that to counteract
the reftriftions of G. Britain with regard
to our trade v7aj the principal inducement
to its adoption. Tho' I difappn>ve of
applying to any jource but itfelf for the
interpretation of an inftrumer.t which was
intended at ail times to be its own exposi
tor. I will go back with my colleague to
tbofe feenes which preceded, and indu
ced the establishment of the present con
ftitv.tiori. I (hall go back with pleasure,
because, being then in the infancy of my
political life, I was witness to those firft
essays to regulate our commerce which his
patriotiTm induced him to make, and
which finally terminated in the establish
ment of our present happy government.
I fay, fir, I was v. itnefs to his exertions
—not I only, Mr. Chairman, but all A
roerica, has been witness to his exertions.
We ail know the {hare he had in forming
the present constitution and promoting its
adoption. I know that the convent'on it
Annapolis to regulate our trade, princi
pally originated from him ; I know, that
the grand convention v.'hich formed our
constitution was the consequence cf this,
and originated from him : And here I can
not he;itate as a member of an happy com
munity to pay that tribute of gratitude
and thanks, which my heart has always
felt to the man, whose councils and exer
tions have been so inftrumentalto ourhap
pinefs. f To le Continued.)
UNITED STATES.
ALEXANDRIA, (Virg.) Dec. 20.
Extruli oj a litter from Richmond.
During the session the governor laic
before the house a letter from the fecreta
ry of the treasury, informing, that " The
commifTioners for fettling the accounts
between the United States, and individu
al states, having made their final report to
the President, dated the 2§fh June, 179,,
a balance of 100,879 dullais, has been
reported by the commissioners, agar. Ift the
state of Virginia."
In order that you may have fame idea
upon what principles those commiffioncrs
proceeded in the apportionment of the
public debt,permit me to subjoin a few re
marks, made from a letter communicated
to the legislature, by the commiffioncrs of
this ftate,lately returnedfromPhiiadelphia,
and written before the secretary's above
mentioned.
" If the aggregate of the balances had
been apportioned among the Hates,accord
ing to the quotas during the war, Virgi
nia would have been a considerable credi
tor of between two and three million dolt
lars : But at prefer,t {he is debu r, tho'
for a small fuin, not more than an 100,000
dollars. So much has the result been de
pendent upon themod.-of apportionment."" It seems probable, that the principle
wliicli governed Congress in apportioning
the united contributions of the ftatcs,
would have influenced the board in ap*
portioning their general debt. By this
rule Virginia would have been chargeable
with about one-sixth part of the wliole.
But it the board had preferred the rate of
representation prescribed for the firft fede
ral houie of representatives, as a better
rule, Virginia, having 10 members out of
would have been liable for Hill less—
her proportion being a sixth and five
lenths, but neither of these modes were
adopted."
In the second session of the firft Con
gress under the new government, it was
er.icted that " The rule for appor jc .1-
ment of the aggregate balance ihoukl be
the fame* r.s that for representation, and
according to the firlt enumeration which
ihoutd be made."
" Agreeably to this enumeration, Vir
ginia has Irj representatives—but as by
compact, as weli as ast of Congress, the
(hare of Kentucky, which is 2, is to be
allotted to Vermont, her proportion will
stand at 21 par s, out of 103 —the present
number 6f the houfc of representatives,
after excluding'agreeably to law, the state
<;t Vermont ; so that her present quota
ir one-fourth and nine-tenths, nearly."
The account current of Virginia againfl
the United States, appears to be twenty
eight millions, two-hundred and eighty
one thousand one hundred and forty five
dollars and 18 cents.
The militia law has also been amended
in feme particulars—but nothing worth
noticing, except that in actual invalion,
See. Quakers are obliged to serve in per
lon, or furnifh substitutes.
All the cut money in the treasury, esti
mated at about 4000 dollars, is to be sent
to the mint of the United States, and
coined into difmes and half difmes.
An act has pafled this feflion to prevent
the migration of free negroes and mulat
toes into the commonwealth. The policy
of this ast is, to arreffc the farther propa
gation of St. Domingo principles, and to
iupprefs those already dilleminated as soon
as pofiible.
NEW-YORK, Jan. 27.
Extra<sl of a letter from Albany
On the i 3th of January, in the hcufe
of Affembiy, Mr. Willcocks, with a num
ber of observations suitable to the cccafi
an, moved for the following resolutions, viz.
" Whereas lengthy titles, or terms of
pre-eminence and diftin'ftion, not known
and warranted by the constitution, are not
only umieceflary, but inconsistent with the
plainness and real dignity of republican
manners,
" Resolved, Th"t in the future pro
ceedings of this house, in their style of ad
dress and title of the fir ft executive mugi
ilrate of this state, the words, " Excellen
cy" and " Esquire," together with the
words, " General, and commander in Chief
of the Militia, and Admiral of the Navy
of this state," and every other characler
iftical designation, not wan-anted by the
constitution Pnall be omitted.
" And for the like reasons, R.efolved,
also, That in the style of address, or title
of the Senate of the state, and of the coun
cil of reviiion, The council of appoint
ment, The judge of the Supreme Court,
and every other court or courts within this
state, and person or persons being Citizens
thereof, the word " Honorable" hereto
fore used in the proceedings of this house,
lhall be omitted.
" Ordered, That the said rcfolution be
committed to a committee of the whole
house, and that it be the order of the day
for Friday next."
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 29.
Extract of a letter from Norfolk, Jan. 16.
This day has arrived in this port, a
(loop of War, (24 guns) dire&ly from
Brest, by her are sent dispatches to the
United States, of importance, the sub
stance of them I am not able to commu
nicate. This veflel brings an account of
the late Queen of France —being deca
pitated in the RoyalJlyle of the Guillotine,
with BriJJot and several other noted cha
racters. Toulon is inverted by 150,000
of the bravest of men, who are determined
on conquest or death—ln the North, the
French are very fuccefstul, the combined
forces have met with a second repulse near
Dunkirk, with greater loss than in their
firft defeat—That there will in the Spring,
b: ready for sea, the greatest fleet ever
known in France—Their freedom is fixed
with certainty, they cannot be conquered.
FROM THE COLUMBIANCENTIN£L.
MORAL REFLECTIONS
ON THE DEATH OF
MARIA ANTON LETTA.
AN ELEGY
e he thy Brothers ?
re the Quart ?
Wn'tfiat flatter' d thee?
If oof .< that follow' d thee ?
Where is thx Ilujband now
Who futs, and niiteh
here be the bcnd'v fc -
Wh re be t' e thro■ > i
A Mother on/\ mock\
A Dream of what tho
ih': two fair babes,
TIS past— the • goM 17.-1)7 pang is o'er,
And fhou, r r i d fhc>dow ot a Queen,
Shalt bend lia?. {up'i>l'< >>ting rye no more.
Whilefpurning i nsult rears hisruffian mien
N.P m- n p t:c !u !(' St i j ( 7.k o ( fii'wn (hall bear
The fzntcntfd Murder to thy h3jrow'd foul ;
No tnore.il:- -lig'w, r hrfe cv. r taui'd by Despair,
Shall bid the whelming fr.-od of Angutfh roll.
No more l<>t:d Mrmarv to thy bloated view
Recall the rr.ori >ing of thy troubled day,
When hore around the loveiv landicape threw,
Spnng's chfnge'efs robe,and Sutnmei'a cloud
less rav.
Set is thy Star of Lif —the pouring Storm
Turns its Mack delude from 'hat aching head,
The Friend- of Mm der quit that t 'oodlefs Form,
And the left animating Hope is fled.
Tha; Soul of Creatuf fs—that unrivall'd Face,
Which kneeling millions gloried to ?dore,
Each mrntal T"-a(ur»• —-!°arh exterior Grace,
Shall raise the worder-gazing Eye no more.
Yon golden cloud, that pngel-Form enthrones,
Where still uvc/rang'di* claim.' a Seraph's pratfc;
Where thy lov'fi Lord each rarthiy wound atones,
With Pity's balm, and Glory's circling blaze.
Blest is the hou? of Peace ! tho curs'd the hand
Which fuaps the thread of Life's difaitrous
Loom ;
Thrice blcft tha great invincible com
mand,
That deals the Solace of the {lumbering
Tomß !
Let those whom long-adopted sorrows own,
On whom the cruel strokes of Fate dcfcend,
On whom the hapi»y race of mortals frown,
And hard Ajflitixon strips of many a friend.
Those, who at Cor nth i a's melancholly hour,
While the flow night-clock knells its mourn
ful found,
Have wak'd to weep with unavailing power,
The cureless pang of m2ny a mental wound
Let the wrapt Mother y who with frenzied mind,
S<jw hen loft Cherub feed the craving Tomb,
Of her whose heart its p.eerlefs Lord refign'd,
And gave to cankering Grief her virgin bloom.
Let all who fondly clasp the Form of Woe,
And boast that ev'ry featur'd 111 is theiijs ;
On GALLTA's QUEEN one patient hourbeftow
And turn to Heaven with penitence and
prayers,
Did'ft thou, mad Mourner, grace yoa lilied
Throne,
Fair as the youthful Poet's pi&ur'd dream,
While rouod thy brow the light of Genius Jhonr,
And warm'd a Nation with its dazzling beam ?
What tho Affixflion' s petrifying sway,
Could bid thy heart its wonted pulse forego,
Bid the pierc'd nerve of quiv'ring life decay,
And leave a breaihlefs 44 Monument oj Woe "
Has grinning infamy, and pointed scorn,
The menial Tribe thy generous mansion fed ;
With impious hand each tortur'd fibre torn,
And urg'd the ixrokc' 'iiUfcepter'd beauty bled ?
Oh no! vain ingrate % nature's boundless page
To the chill'd fehfe no equal*d horror (hows,
One drrad example blots a IctierM age,
That scene accurs'd a polilh'd realm bestows.
Then call the roses to thy faded cheeks,
With the mi nd's lustre light that languid eye,
Cloathe thy vex'd foul with refijnation meek,
And bid the murmuring lingering accent die.
Why (hould the Wretch upon whose visual orb
The lord of rr iGHT NRSsnever pour'd his ray
Repine when darkvefs folds her mighty robe,
At the fwitt t ran lit of the changeful day !
Can the poor worm, who clasps it fpcck of
earth.
While on iis head the crufliing bolt is hurl'd,
Like yon bright Offspring of celestial birth.
Command the plaudit of a pitying world !
Say waft thou sent to fill this ftormv fccne
Freed from the icy touch of with'nng csre ?
Then think of loyal-Gallia's woifhip'd Queen,
And learn thy little drop of woe to bear:
Oh then thou felfifh mourner ccafr to grieve,
If to thy heart one orphan'd hop* remains,
With grateful lip the precious drop receive,
As the sweet solace of a word of pains.
Jan. 18, 1794,
A writer in a Newark paper, concludes
an essay on the importance of providing
for the Education of the Poor, with the
following anecdote
" As it ever affords me pleasure to ren
der to merit its due praise, before I con
clude this elfay, I beg leave to mention a
circumitance that reflt&s much honor on
a worthy, industrious mechanic, in the
town of Newark. He maintains at his
own charge a School-Maftcr of reputable
character, who teaches the Englifli lan
guage, Writing and Arithmetic, to about
forty children, among them the poor arc
taught gratis to his annualexpence of about
£ 20. Noble philanthropy ! Honorary
to human nature and chriftianity."
If the poor children of this City, could
be educated in Reading, Writing, and A
rithinetic, how much left than 20. would
be the proportion of each individual of
property ?
Extract of a letter from a merchant in
London, to Mr. Louis Ofmont, ot this
city, dated October 9th, 1793 —re-
ceived by the , via N. York.
" I am much pleased to confirm to you
the di'fpofition.oi this government, to do
juiticc to American citizens. The 13001.
you Ihipped in dollars, by the Active,
Capt. Blair, who was captured by a Bri
tish privateer, and carried into Falmouth,
has been delivered up to me upon, demand.
You fee by this, that your having been a
fubjc£t of France, does not prevent you
in the lealt, from enjoying ail tiie advanta
ges of neutrality, in common with other
American citizens ; and 1 have no doubt,
from this time, severe judgments will be
obtained agaiult all depredations commit
ted upon the property of American sub-
SHAKESPEAR
iefts."
F.xtradl of a letter from a merchant in
London, to his friend in this city, dated
OiSlobei 18.
" It gives ine real pleasure as a friend
to America to find tliat you are not likely
to be involved in the European war. The
conduct of your Executive is very much
applauded by all dcfcriptiocs of people
here ; and 1 hope no circumftnnce will a
rise to disturb the harmony that fublifts
between the two countries. I believe
whatever may be the decisions in the court
of admiralty, juilice will be done the par
ties injuied by captures."
Cottgrefs of the Utdied States.
The Speaker laid before the house a pe
tion from a convention of the delegates
of the abolition societies of the Rates of
New Jersey, New York, Conneiticut,
Rhode Island, Delaware, Maryland, and
Virginia, praying the interpefttion ot Con
gress to prevent the American (hipping
from being concerned in the slave trade.
Another'petition of a similar import
from a convention at Providence in 1793,
was also read, and both of them on motion
of Mr. Tracy, referred to a lelett com
mittee.
Some private petiticr.s were then pre
sented, read and referred.
Mr. Murray prefcnted a petition from
two French citizens, refugees from Hif
paniola in behalf of themselves and others
praying a temporary relief from govern
ment, till such time as they can return
to their own country and poflefiions,whic:i
they promise a reimbursement of any ad
vances made to them in their present des
titute iituation.—Refeired to the commit
tee of the whole.
The house then went into committee of
the whole on the report of the leleft com
mittee, to whom had been referred the me
morial of the Baltimore committee of re
lief for the emigrant refugees from His-
paniola—the report being read,
Mr. S. Smith; moved the following re
foluticn in fubltafnce, to be adopted as an
amendment to the committee's Report—
Resolved, That the President of the
United States be empowered and requeit
ed to direst a sum not exceeding io,cco
dollars, to be paid for the relief of the in
digent emigrants from the island of St.
Domingo, now reading within the Unit
ed States, and that the President also be
requeued to cause a re-imburfementoftne
fame to be negociated and made out of
the money due by the United States to
France,
This amendment, after some debate
was withdrawn by the mover, to admit a
nother moved by Mr. Fitziimons, which
had for its object, the appointment of a
committee to report a bill in the cafe.
This last amendment after further de
bate was agreed to by a large majority—
the committee rose, and the chaiiman re
ported the amendment to the house.
In the house Mr. Nicholas moved an a
meadment, the object of which was to
qualify the firfi resolution With an avowal
that the legillature of the United States
were net authorized by the-conftitution to
grant money in theprefent cafe, buttruf
ting to the humanity of their conffituents,
had refolvea that a sum not exceeding
PHILENIA
dollars be granted, &c.
This motion was negatived.
The resolutions were adopted by the
houfc, and a committee of three, viz Mr.
Ames, Mr, Tracy, and Mr. Dayton, ap
pointed to report a bill.
The house then went into committee of
the whole on Mr. Madjfcn's resolutions,
Houje of Reprefentativcs.
Tuesday, Jan. 28
Mr. Trumbull in the. chair.-—The-diifcuf
fion contineed till 3 o'clock—when the
Louie adjourned.
January 29,
After reading and referring a private
petition, the order of the day being called
ior, the house went into committee of the
whole on Mr. Madison's resolution 8-«-ou
which the debate was renewed, and pro-
grefs reported.
. The appropriation bill was then taken
up in committee of the whole, and further
progress made in the discussion.
For the GazeTtk of the United States,
Mr. Fen no,
If the power of the present ruling party
in France is really that of law and liberty,
it i» uoing -o good to their cause to lie fur
it. Why (hould news be made to answer
the purpose of half an hour ? It looks sus
picious—it is weak. The form, the prin
ciples, the men and the maafures of what
is called government in France, have
changed often. Change as they may, We
have a fat of people who think a man is a
monster, if he prefumesto fay—here is an
entire new flat: of i>. ill i'je old 'vin
dication answer ? The wretch, the arifio
crat—he is under i orlsGn influence, is
the cry, which bj fides its extreme good
sense, mown their opinion of what they iij
much applaud.
The Ameiicans are esteemed a sober,
thinking people-—Ail their judgments on
political tranfa&ions ftiould evince that
they are fo-—lf the proceedings of the
ruling party in France, will not iiand the
test of impartial examination, they do not
deserve the favorable prejudices which ex
ist, because they are not brought to it—
If bystanders would fee the mistakes of
the game, they Ihould !6ok on impartially.
Onr newspapers may play the partizan
for the French. How much does theif
prattle help them ? Some of them avow
their zeal for thefts. A zeal sos truth
would be as ufeful ar.d as decent. V\ e
might hope to learn wisdom by others
harm. No : If the French have many of
our good willies, let us learn many good
lessons ; by feeing wherein they betray,
disgrace and destroy the cause of liberty,
which there is no doubt tit y once bad
entrufied to their prudence. 1 hope you
will have the desire to keep your paper as
impartial as the Leycier, Gazette. A. B.
FRANCE,
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
Novvember 7.
TOULON.
The Representatives of the people be
fore Toulon, wrote from Oilioules on the
24th October. that profpedts in the South
began to brighten ; that the requifitionj
of the neighboring departments, and the
forces that were employed in besieging
Lyons, were absolutely neceflary, the c
nemy being mailers of the sea, and, there
fore, enabled to procure a!) the reinforce
ment the/ (load in need of. These represen
tatives, sent also another letter to the Con
vention, written by a young defender of
his country, whose father had been con
demned to death :—" I address my ft If to
you," he fays, " who are the fathers of
the country: 1 belong to a family who
are as arillocratic as I am patriotic ; it has
renounced me—from this I derive honor.
I understand that my father is to be guillo
tind to-day—He has betrayed his country,
and therefore aeferves punishment—l do
not regret i
" No good Republican ought to ac
knowledge as parents those who are not
Ike him felt, Republicans—l request that
I nviy become tie adopted child of the na-
tior.."
The Convention applauded his conduct,
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's C ffee-Houfe of this
City :—
Rr.SPECTFUI.LY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL m Shippcn-Street, be
tween Third and Fourth-Streets, at the HouCe
formerly' occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
ras lately been greatly improved, and .snow
very commod'oui ; where he has lurmlbed him*
fclf with the bell of LIQUORS, and will tur»
nifh a TABLE for Panics, with the heft provU
(ions the Markets affoid, at any hour, on the
lhorteft nonce. From his experience in
this line of bufmefs, he flutters hirttfelf be
be able to give fattsfa&ion to all who may pl« 4's
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29,1794.
Adjourned,ADVERTISEMENT.
•f 1 1u 'j, ' iff -■' ''si
FOR SALE,
Valuable Tract of LAND,
1 ill this count), coii^iniii
r, one I
grounds, of exec 1 let quality; «h oihe* thrt»-
tounha is high land, well ,ci>vi »ed wiih oak,
htck"ry and chefnut.
The lituaiion is plrafint and Healthy, on Yeo
comtco rtver, about llircc miles from the Poto
mac k Tiierc is on it a two story brick dwel
ling- iioute, wi:h four rootm nui a pail* >c on
each floor, tXi lufive of v.iolets; a good kitcbcn,
and othe» occctfaiv out-ho\if< s U has orc4ia?d&
of apple and p ach trees, and in wcil watered
by many <h iij>h lul springs. 1 "in: terms may he
known on application to ihi Honorably JOHN
HEATH, in Philadelphia, or to the liblcriber,
living f>ii i he premtfes. ,
J;, to. i\ri COfiDOV
Excellent CLARET,
In (• ads and in cacti 0.l 50 houlcs each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigns Wine ;
MADEIRsI,
In pipe.-, !'o£th> «jnd qna.-ter eafks,
FOR S.ALF. BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111, Flont-lue(:.
'] ,n. 2, 1794-
~~ tcTbe~sqld,
A large elegant House,
;;nd Lot of Ground,
JN-an e /i!>le fit-u :tion, —dlfo a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, wit's 9 aces of
lane!, o.' 42 ace? of Jand unci meadow, the
Hon ft- i' by m ny in the vie n'ty
of ttie .city, in r/e or co iver ience.
For rer«rtapp'y to the printer.
{mnrv i? y in«Scth—tf
Parry and JMufgrave,
Golofmiths 1$ Jen-tilers,
N0.,42,
SOUTH SLCOND-STREET,
HAVir". FOR -> \LE,
An elegant jjffbrlment of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY tf Jiue CUTLERY,
vC'hieh - • 'it if on the in oft I ea-
11(1. t <1 3
f> : -e iii-;. D_\n.» in '\Mr, \l •-i a * ■»>».* s
r! c- ei • *"i!*• g it; luc ;:;>d f:!vcr
v.-v. ;!< r iriuM.
r..k ■ 2'. t>) v ' 8-Jl"' f
IK.1 K . . •>
In in rar.ce Con 'puny.
/ i",h' '■'!! 6,
NfOTICE is ticrcby.g! vcn u» the members
! o the lufutance Co.npany of No:th-
Ame> ica, that the Dirt £h> s nave declared a
divdet.c! (to. the I ait fix months) of «,rx Pt*
ChKT. 'ii the amount ot the fir it and fee one!
instalments ; and «f one ptr cent per month
on !h< "urns paid in untcipatioi of tie third
inftalinent, calculating from the fir ft day of
the month following that, in which ihoTe pay
ments were mini The dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders, or their rcprefentativfes,
at the company's office, No. 119 fotith Front
itreet, at auy time aftei t'>? 13th ii ftafnt.
By oder of the Dij«*jstot 5:.
EBttigZEß HAZARD, Secretary
Jan. 9
Treasury Department,
KT"T ICE is in r.-bv tha: pmjiolals. will
1\ be m< < ived <u iht Oflue «>l 'he bcociary
ot tu e '1 i c fui v , t' i *'' i 11 ii 6'h ol F t> r' ij r y i,tx:
inc.ir.ftve, tor tli-. lupplv of 4ii R lions which
ii:av be ttijuui ti the prn ni yr<ir, hi ill-
Cv< i -;1 pL« r.y -i\ rrridc.oi,s ru »\ alter rmmion-
, {or tiic Recruituio; Service, viz
At N\w.B u « r wuk. in New-j- tfc.v ;
Ar Philadelphia,
At 1 ancaftc , V in Pennsylvania.
At )
The rations to be furnifhed are lo consist of the
following articles, v-2.
o'\ I0(1 J ol li)C3C O! floui,
IV:i una ol luti. Vi yof a pound of poik,
Half dj'P.oi tutu, broi or whilky,
On qr.ail ot lair
Tv\qiuris t»! vinegar
M . ,r > per ico rations,
1 v. •- iviHV; i'i li-rfp f
O' 1 pouriii of oauditb)
V'. c
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, I 794.
NOTICE is hereby given, that thee will
be- paid at the Eur !:, ; Iter the sixteenth
inflant, to the Stock!.><ld> i'4or their represen
tatives. duly authorized si teen dollars ?nd
fifty cents for each (h ire, being the d.vidend
declared for the last fix months.
?W JOHN KKNK, Cnflrer.
Robert Campbell,
Wo. 54, South Second-jlreet,
Seconddoor b low the corner ot Chemut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED, "
iy the late arrivals from Britain and -Ireland,
A large and general j*i[forlmtnt of
New Books and Stationary,
Which wj|l be di I poled of on the Joweft terms
~ mw&f rf
IVc 23,
LL persons having any de-
A niancis again ft the rftate ol GtORGK
WJKLF. late of the cuv of Philadelphia, baker,
are rnjut ft< d to bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated ; and thofc who arc nidcbied, arc
«!ifired to m. kc imtncdiatr p.ivnieot.
HIINKY RhLS, Aminiftratwr.
2aw3w.
January 13.
■! ( ,'U> ! . t,C< .:fe; 3 793-
% iibctiii eight
ftlWfcfrf
W&f.IU).
tawi6F.
By Order,
JOHN KE AN, Cafh : er.
This day is pubE/bed,
By MATHEW CAREY,
N 118. Makk&t-str ret,
(Price a quarter dollar)
A short account of ALGIERS,
Containing a riiici iption of t he citmau* of that
country — uftfic manners and cworoi of the in
hn itan;s, and of their (evera 1 warsagainft Spain,
Fiancr, England, Holland, Venice, and other
p >wers of F.uiope, fiom the ufurpatton of Bar
bara IT* and the tnvofion of the Emperor Chailes
V. to ih" pre'<nt time; with a toncife view of
throng ,-i of the rttotuie between ALGIERS
ttv. KNITED STATES.
dtf.
i i.i- o
The Young LADIES'
Drawing Academy,
Under the Direction of
S. FOLWELL,
Will, in a few days, le resumed.
"jr TT E feels a gratitude to those parents
X JL and guardians of the young ladies,
wlio have entrusted to him their tuition—
aui! as molt of them are to return, he will
have an opportunity, by his endeavors for
their further improvement, to acquit him
ftlf of a debt, which he esteems it an honor
to have incurred.
One or two large Rooms,
1;i a central situation, suitable to accom
modate his pupils, are wanted. Apply to
h!ir>, at No. 3, Lsetitia Court —where he
will be thankful to receive commands for
Miniature Painting or Hair Work, and all
kind of D«.'V/ing on Ivory, Sattin or
Paper.
January 13, I 794
War Atlas.
This Day is Published,
( Price 7'wo Dollars)
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Mariet-flreet,
A Collection of Maps,
Including the whole <-( the various Scats of
tin present War in £urope and the Well
!ndi«*s;, viu.'
1 "|\ yf A P of the United Provinces of Holland,
JIVL F: uflunri, Overyilel, Gel-
'■ dtrfc Utrecht, and Zealand.
} 2. Xiap <>! the French* Dutch, and Auflrian
t Netherlands.
•, 3. Map of Fiance divided into ciicles and
а. Map (- Snain and Portugal.
5. Map of Germany and Switzerland,
б. Map ot Italy.
7. Map of the Well-Indies.
X. L>. Any of the above Maps may be had
ft p«t 1 1•'
SdiJ Carey Las lately pubfiftied
J Account ol 'Aljm'is-—w'vth a Map—\J\ol.
I Account of the Malignant Fever, 4th edition—
I 3/9 —f* r - NafFy's Trcatifc 011 do.—l/ 10$.
j Jan. 25 4 »!».
Ml) N h Y hot rowed or loaned, accounts ila
tcd <rp collected, employers suited with
domcilics, hnufe rooms, boarding and lodging
nented, let or piocured—foldier's, mnrtncr'.s,
or iniiiti a men's pay, lands and claims on the
public ; (hart s in the banks, in (he canals, and
the turnpike ro«id ; certificates granted by the
pablii, and the old and late paper monies ;
notes of hand, bills, bonds and morgages, with
or without d 1 p >4irs —Bought, fold, or nego
ciated at No. 8, in south Sixth-Itreet, below
Matket-ftrett bv
Wh j traufa£ls business in th« public offiees for
country people and others, bv virtue of a pow
er ..J attorney, or by perlonal application.
D'-rpfTiber 1 1. <1
Notice is hereby given,
r PHAT the fnbfcriber has been duly ap-
X pointed Adminiltratnx on theeftate of
liis Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
B 'fton, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
ha? taken upon hfcifelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law tlireels—and all persons in
t-reftcd, are defircJ to take notice accord-
ingly
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
A LL nerfons who have any demands against
1 JL the Estate of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Ei'q. deceased, are requeited to
exhibit the fame to the Subscriber, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who ftanrl indebted to laid Estate, are
requeued to fettle with him immediately ; as the
Act of Limitation of A&jons, which is to take
place on the fir ft day of December next, will
other wife render it ntrceffary for him 10 com
mence luits aga r,(t them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Adm»nifti atiix.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793-
N- B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are recjurfted to inftrt this in their
refpedlive ncwfpapers, and forward their ac
counts for the fame, to J. M
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to he fold by
Thomas Dobfon,
Price three eighths of a Dollar,
" An Enquiry into the principles
and tendency of certain public
measures."
January 16.
From London, Dublin ami Glasgow,
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following:
NEW Annual Regilter for 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Mancheiter society, 3 vols.
Pi'ieftly on matter and spirit
on chrillianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jor tin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Auoirs of Guy Joli
Menxty, a collection of essays
Varieof Prufiia's works
Calm obfervei—by Mackintosh
Hullcll's ancient and modern Europe
I-anghoi lie's Plutarch
Elegant extra&s, superbly gilt
Elegant extra&s of natural hlftory
Saugnier and BrifTon's voyage
R.ocnon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
TaflVs Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation oi BufFon
Berwick's hiftoi y of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
Hiflory of birds *
Philips's hlftory of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of litei aiure, 3 vol*.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's di<sVionarv. 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of t;hc Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Jiiilay's dfcfcription of Kentucky
Psefent flare of Nova-Scotia
Prelent Itate of Iludfon's Bay
Preston on masonry
! Lav ate r on physiognomy, abridged
Z inmernian's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnfan
Nei;ker on executive power
Kilty* s of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
diw
Travels
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Dovvnman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Ben'ington on materialism and immateriaiifni
Ber't hold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Cnaudon's life of V oltaire
Cv Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's defcripfion of China
Murphy's tranflarlon of Tacitus
Godwin on pol tical justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's /ketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's didlionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhoufc diftiorary
Reveries of i'otitude
Smith's theory of moral fentimenta
Stackhonfe's history cf the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. S: Hid.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wan ley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wall s on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,RufHa,Poland,&c.
Cox's 'ravels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the praSlice cf mid-
FRANCIS WHITE,
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mufc.'es
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Mateia Medica
Foi dyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on di »e<tfjes of armies
Holler's physiology
Spalanzane's dilTertations
London pry&ice of physic
Bell's surgery
Char-tal's chetn'ftry.
Cj- Terms of Subfcripiion for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars p:r annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Sulf: npt'tOtu of persons
who reftde at a dijlance from the city, to le
twelve months in advance, or payment to he
guaranteed at the place of publication.
jddvertifrmenfc of re square, or left, in
fectedfour times for One Dollar—oicc,for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—these of greater length i:i pro
portion. Fav'. rs in this li-ie, and Svbfcrip
tions, will be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourlh-jlreet,five doors north of tie
Indian Queen.
dtw
Just Imported,
And now opening for <ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jlreet,
A Large and Valuable ...
wiierv
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds;
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wali-ftrcet, New-York
THE Subicriber intending to confine hirnfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b.gs leave to of.
I"i j h;s ietviccsto his iriends and other*, in the
line ol a Stock Broker. Those who may pleafc
to fayor htm with their may d< ptnd
upon having it tranfatted with the unnoft hde
lity and dispatch.
O'Hcrs from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
oth f f >art of the United State*, will be Ori£tly
aicenpcd 10. LEONARD BLOCKER,
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
[n Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifrh
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying-
JT round,
HHAKES this opportunity of returning his
±. grateful thanks to hts former employers,
and requi.'ftii»g their future favors, as well as
thole of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
fiioc test notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without cra:>e necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fciikeys and chairs, and harnef*
ofevary description, in the ncateft and neweffc
fafliion now prevailing in the United Stares.
And as he oas a quantity of the best seasoned
woed by him, and capital workmen, he has
not tlic least doubt but he will tie 3b!c* to give
fatfsfaftion to thole whopleafe to employ him.
He has for sale, several carriages aim oft
si lilhed, such as coachees, an Italian wind (or
chair, hfing on steel a light phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
Carriages fold on Commiliion.
Jan. 6, i 704- niittjin
Encyclopedia, Vol. X*
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
B at the Stone ilouil, ia Second
ftreet Phi'adeiohia.
VOLUME X, OF
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionary
Of A' ts, Sciejuc-;, and Mil'tciiauctun
Literature, on a Plan entirely new \
BY WHICH
The Different Sciences and Art*;,
are digejled into the form of
Treaties or SviVems :
THIS volume contains principles of Levels
Liberty, Do&cins of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, Hittory of Lon
don, Longitude. Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetifir;, Malts, Hii
to*y of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical anil
M.lcellaneous articles, illullrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number o( families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
areretuined. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the fubfer bcrs to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poiTible.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia ij
now presented to the public ; but as it make#
its appearance in an impcrfeft state, ibine ac
count of the reason of that imperfection fliould
be given. On the Bth of September lafl, the
Publiflier had the misfortune of having his
Printing Office burnt down by a fire which,
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a 'great
quantity of his printing materials deltroycd >
and among other articles, the figures, with
which he was printing the tables of lo
garithms, belonging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire,
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the necefiity of pub
lifiling the volume without these tables; but
hopes he fliall be able to publish them with the
next volume which is now in conHdercble for-
wardnefs.
The Publiflier embraces this opportunity of
exprefling his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to such of the fubfcriberi
as are in arrears, the mdifpenfible necessity of
punctuality, both in taking up 'he volumes as
early as po»?jble after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the sub
scribers having got only one, two, three, &rc.
volumes, and several volumes remainlwp aid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the comiiicjieement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individual l ;, yet the accumulation of
these trifles i np-»id lays the Publifbe" under
very serious efubiirfaffiifent, and deprives him
of the life of many Thoufandsof Dollars whicl*
at this time would be of very eflent-ial service.
For these reason? the J^ubliflier f.nds himfclf
una*r the neceflHy of recurring to the or ginat
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be dejiver.d bur only to those who
take and pay to tire time of publication.
December io.
PHILJP'EL PHI A :
Printed ey JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
f
2awti J.