jT-k
v.'i-' '
"
• . - [ ' . • ' 1 0
\
'* »•»j
4
:
E V E if
, [No. 22 of Vol. V*
(S. C.) l>ec. ,6
1 • Citizens MatklandSc M'lver,
WHEN an iwJiTkltiftt recoivtn ai
mvrj froma fa of men, whjrtie
thole men are a&injf 4HkJer the doafe „
vtßce m not, ihe pcact and happi„ e r 8 0
tnat individual is diflurbed, and his goo,
name, more commouly, fuffers ; n
opinion of the people at lart>e, than tha
it fliould he defended. But when th
individual is attacked by a powerful body
hi* liberty taken from him, and I,is ast,
<"*. nay, Ins thoughts, are fcrtrtimzed
under specious pretence* of public fafoty
it is then, no longer 3 piivate injury ; i
becomes one>«« - , nature. Citi
«ns, it is from hVi.' lb M , through tlx
channel of your pap«j . I seek to p,oduc<
to my fellow chisei,?, „ 0 t of this ftatc
only, but of the whole Um'ted States, ?
relation of an arbitrary ast, which aU
tltmigh fetmingly aimed at me, yet
ftrikcfc at the very bafu of the political
linertyofmy country. In giving this
relation, «< //$„//nothing extenuate—mr
Jet down aught in make."
On Saturday night the 7th instant, If
was accnlled in my yard by a pcrfn,, who i
€Bme in at my £r a te, with th? uft-rtl com
ptjmei.t <f—i-lew do yon do, 10, I fop.
poled him an acquaintance, and when he '
came near to the light to be dtf- {
tinguifticd, I rerogm'ztd the person of'
col. Wale Hampton ; close at his heels '
followed tv o w her men ; these, with
the colonel, I invited to walk in ; ;hey
entered and fat down. Mr. HamptoQ,
prefaced hm tuiline f< by saving, that lie
imagined T n>.i:!t know what he c?'ne
Upor\ I declnved my ignorance. He
conti'Ke i Ih'h preface, by faying, he pre
fuoi'-it I i,,ii(( l.ave !*eard the opinions
and ("nni-izn which have been on
"•y r !> 'lie country foine few wetks
back." T rc ulljg; tfiofc rr 'ijTTs ~ ~
"which he s'hnied to had reached m\
while in the country, and precipitated
n>y return to ChaiJelton, to fie* rrv
enemits. He then produced his com
tnijfion, which was a bench warrant,
signed by Thomas Waliea, and E. H.
Bay, (two of the afTociate judge?) 10
take iny body in custody, for attempt
ing to levy ttoops from among tbf citi
zens of this Hate, and under commillions
of the FieiiLh republic. This warrant
was grounded on a representation of a
committee who were appointed by tire
house of reprefrntatives now fitting at
Columbia, fettirig forth, " That diver®
pcrfone, citiaens of this Ihte, have wick-
«dlyattempted, under afitreignfuilhoriry,
to levy an armed forcc within state, iviih
out the pemiiflion and contlary to Uic
expreis prohibition of the govemnte.rct of*
the United States." This wanir.t a cted
against my body only. I fnbmitied .
it was d<>ati»ed with the eutOTrhv
thole v> the people had to
execute the laws ; and howe^er/ ttnocent
I might be, it was the i" r t 11 P o 9d
citizen to submit, T 1 " fequtl, how-
ever, proved that < I " re was intended,
and the taking of "<y body was the mod
trifling pan. £o\. Hampton, after exe
cuting his<<uty as flieriff, produced a
nother Gf power, in the carafter
of ffieri*! mrjfingcr to thehoufe ot repre
sentatives : a learch warrant,
figncd fcy Robert "A irdeXon, as chaitman
of a committee by the house,
and composed of Ro'Anderfon,
Henry Wm. DefaulTo*, John Rutledge,
jun. capt. Butler, />hn Drayton, Timo
thy Ford, and Green Hunt, wliich
decides forth, " That William
Tsete, Drayton, John Ham-
Robert Tate, Jacob Roberta
Brown, and Richard Speake, have fe-
veratly been concerned and employtd in
enrolling the citizens of this (late, and
rxciting them to arm themselves in the
fcrvice of the French republic ; and to
inarch out of this Jlate, under officers ap-
pointed and commissioned by theminifter
plenipotentiaiy of the French republic,
and that the said W. T. S. D. See. pus-
of
I N G
fefs certain informations of and in the
premises, as well as divers papers or re
cords, relative thereto, which arc ncctf
fary and proper to be obtained and
brought before the committee, in order
to enable them more fully to discharge the
I trujl and duly commit fed to them, as afore,
said, Bcc. y> Confequcnrly, cos. W.
Hampton was not only aiuhoriTtd to
take the above persons into cnflody, but
immediately, notwithstanding evuifes,
neglects or refnfals, to compel them to
appear before the committee atCnhimbia.
And moreover, to ft arch for all papers,
tecords, memorandums or writings in
any wife t elating to, or touching the pre
mises, _ which may be in the cnitody of
the said S. 1). VV . T. See. (and repeats)
" and all papers so found, forthwith, to
gether with the persons aforefaid, to
bring before the said committee, at the
place aforefaid." Concluding with re
quiring and enjoining all citizens of this
(late, upon thereunto required, to
be aiding and aflifting—as they Jhali an
fiver the contrary at their peril.
Citizens of America, after perilling
the above, attend to the following :
Hie warrant from the committee, de
claring that divers persons are levying
tvoops, or an armed force', in this Hate,
without permifßon, and contrary to ike
government, of the United Slates, and
thereby declaring it to be illegal, is aft
nig under the proclamation of the Preii
dent of the United States, dated the
loth of April, 1793, enjoining the ci
tizens of thefc states to obfetve an exail
neutrality refpe&ing the belligerent
powers. Die 3d faction of the 2d article
o! the con(liiution defines the power of
the Piefident, refpx;£ting extraordinary
occalions, and such mealures as arc ex
pedient to be taken, in which the law of
has been St fit, lie may rtretrrt
mend ; but it does not empower him to
cieate a new law, however expedient it
maybe. In the jd fcaioti, the ill ar
ticle, declares what treason agaiult the
United States Ihalj c onli(l i. e. the
levying war againll them, or in adhering
to their enemies, giving them aid and
comfort. Ihe 2d clause of the 6tb *r
titfle declares, that this coofti tuti«n and
the laws of the United States, which
lhil! be made in thereof, or
which flrall be made u-der'thc authority
of the United Sta* s » fhaJ! be the fu.
preme law of land. The 6th clause
in the amepJuent to the conilitution
dcclarts, iAe ''ght of the people to be
Itcurey'n rfieir persons, houses, papers
andeft^ 5 ' a ? a, nll HD'fafoiiable searches
and r,/l,r «. 'hall «ot be violated : and
p warrants ftaW-.ffue hut on probable
supported by oath or affirmation,
and particularly p/„ cet io be
fZtl DS £ ni thi "2' '0 be
The immediai» 1 r
1 .1 j 1 following clause, viz.
the 7th, declares, that no pe.r>,.. n.,™
held to anfvrer for a capital, or other
wise infamous crime, unless on a present
ment or indi&ment by a grand jury, ex
cept in cales arillng in the land or naval
fotces, or in the militia, when in a&ual
service, in the time of war or public dan-
The constitution of the United States is
the laiu of the land, and on attentively
perusing it, I cannot find a clause which,
in a mod diflant manner, car, beconftru-
Ed, even by the formidable holt of law-
yers who compole the committee, so as
to make it treason in any American's en-
tering into the service of the French re-
public, while that people are not enga
ged in a war against America : for the
3d feftion and the lft article clearly,
wfthout a poflibility of the words being
explained away, or extorted to any other
meaning, fays, " Treason against the
United States, (hall consist only in levying
war againlt them, or in adhering to their
enemies, giving them aid and comfc* !"
The warrant by which I have been
treated as aJlave has not accufcd me of
j; many of the
4d in ;a ttate of '
' U
and
tiir.ore, catcc
belonging tf:
1> 1
fcampfon,
ifh
~; . '* j t
i board his
I'r—.ted at
:ud various
themldves ,„ the iervice Kt to Lis
JitpmHc, and to mwch out ( j, j n
der officers appointed and'ci ~/J
by the minister of the French-, i n
Dot* this ast coniliiute treason ? of cai
°f the land it cannot; but by theWo
is, itrthe eyes of those who think fan
is infallibility in others as well ?» the
Pop(*. B„t let us refer to the f<fJeral
constitution, and fee the power p!*ed
"1 tU hands of the President. VV« \VW
bogn, With the solemn oath which U
taket on entering into office—" { do
foLihnly fwrar, that I will faithfully tx
,:e the "ffice of Prtfident of the Uni-
States, End will, to the l,c(l of my
ibility, prtferve, protest and defend the
tution of the United State,." This
s oath u office : hemnll preserve,
rvl f a:u ' ' ! fnd , but he cannot add to
a tittle of tlK corillifu , ioit . an , (
'"V iru r' Ut prcte,,l '' ,> ?.to oinntll ience
>r infallibility, he may dtt-cwer defefls
n tic conltitu'itin yet in this cafe | )c can
<ii!y recommend to the confideratio* 0 f
such meafurts as he may judg«.
lectflary and expedient— except in ex
laottlinaiy occalions, and then his pow
■r isextended so far as to convene Loth
>ouJ>, or either of ikem.
ly then, no article of the law of the
Whi'bUt my joining the armies of
ce, I was at liberty fa to do, not-
Ending the proclamation of the
rc dent : for he had no power to re-
Ira i my political liberty. But when
)(I T '*fa ar misused, as, uponthe flight-
Jrounds, to attack the freedom and
fieTfi and property' of ihc clf
s fill time to examine the government
•ve lve under ; as a fretman I will do it,
andas a just man 1 will neither lcilen nor
m Inept efent.
t am accused, among others, of being
cocerned in levying and arming the cit
iz4s to march out of the (la e, and to
entir the service of the French Republic ;
am the accusation has been supported
witn the oath of one : it goes on with de-
that the armament, under myfclf,
is intended against some of the Spauilb
iflaidt belonging to the King of Spain—
No mention of levying war againU this
ftatr, or any other of the union.
I have said that col. Hampton took
my body into custody, under the bench
warrant on Saturday the 7th inft. and
when he was to ast underthecommittee's
warrant, his urbanity prompted him toi
?ropofe my fending for an intimateiand,
onfidential friend, who fhoujd fearOT
my papers fortreafonablecorrefpondence.
I declined at firft, but on the c3Tonel's
faying it would be, in every stage of the
business, more fatisfaftory to him,
capt. T. Hall, and act/
or f pe.r u „ a atttnd ; n J
went m search of him, kn M
cane about 1 1 o'clock at night/ ¥
after a search took place, wh*»c ny*
pers lay expoled, or where d/"f. rS '
trunks and boxes were found, v 7
we e not fecuied by locks. Ai»»
in public service. w l,o. w ! s
countrywasinvadedbyßritidi t " 1 . ,r, y» ,n
:or.fequence of the rank he .
army of these United St?' ?I . e P'" _
deit of c»irtffpondencics A P" v ate life
Tor forty years back, : but ' e
n pofieflinn of many p# ,crs - _ * ' le ' luur
if two o'clock in t* morning came ;
h«progrefs made fu>all. 1 law
he difficulty attep l " t^ e
mdcavored to reU rn tbe civility and po
itenefs with wVich the fhc-riff acted, by
>ropofing feali to be placed on the lockt
in 1 drawers of my deflt, and pledgrnii
nj honor that I would not in anywif
irc information to any one, or feciet
my papers, and that a bed fkonld be pi<
lared for the Ihctiff, that whsn da'
Tuesday, January 7, j
lanJ
Fial
wit)
( .\T'n" ym and naV- iidng drmiriehd bV
*>r& fifth i.f the members prefect.
i'hofe who voted in the afiifmative m*;'
Theot'ohjs Bailey, Abraham Baldwin,
John Beatty, T hos. Bltfurit, Thos. I'.
Carucs, Gabriel ChriiHe, Abniiiam Clarke.
I aac Coles, Win. Jolinfou Dawfort, lieti
ry Dearborn, Geo. Dent, Wm. I'indley,
W. B. Giles, Christ. Greenup, Andrew
Wm. Barry Grove, Carter B.
Harrifon, John Heath, Danl. Heifter,
Wm. Irvine, RichJ. B. Lee, Matthew
Locke, Natlm. Macon, James Madison,
jefeph M'Dowell, Aic*- ,\\jru-s
r.,-.- .... 3 ' J
AW
'g-ht lcturned the search IhoM be con
tiam.bcr for tlvc remainder < f the, wight.
This being agreed to, Mr. Haft, as
•'f'k of the ft-fliuri, placcd the official
on tlir df(k and diawers, and at ism'
'Hock left my houfeand fclfin t!ie p t'-
elfion and care of the flierifF. At t-n
) clock Sunday morning caj>t. Haii re
timed the search. Having th,u|u>^
ecured bv lock*, he then broke the frals
It had placed on my dt/fc, and demand
fd my keys : theft I perenprv m'l\ refufer!
odeliver, or serving that, if they <(>■■■
iffice, th ( v might force my locks, but I
vas deft riiniied not to pn>diice a key.—-
Accordingly my locks w«re forced, my
)apers examined with th' eve us fc->:if i-
IV, and not a paper nor a fcH'.euce cunld
« found that could tend to support the
- '*rge wh;ch had occasioned tl.is want. /
"ta\;k upon the privileges and imir.Ui.Ui.a
>f a titizen.
T have already set f rth in the wards of
warrant fotn fhr committee of ,h* honfe,
:he chat errs which were laid me.
1 have fern: utatlfly exanrtned thr law of
he land, and the law of this (U-e, and
laVe, together with my accusations, pla
ced them before my fellow citiz • .. . to
the conftituttoa of il.ij Ihte,
the 9th art. declare?/
"No ft tetiun of the llutc shall he taken,
nr ttnonfoned, or difieized ~f his f,.»e
hold, hbem'en or privileges, or outlawed,
orext.cd, or in any manner destroyed,
or deprived of bis life, libers 0, propet
ty, lH by the judgment of )<•* pi era, or
By thejaw of the Uj )<>n fllr
n'drnce of o>" r7 ""- "'ho has not tleiht/
bTI si f""" °S W
im ncia out as a trairor to my cn'
ind treated with ail the rigour
jerfecutions under the mofl arbijl®
'eminent. Upon the evidenf'*'
a>vsof the land, and the pis 88
jf this (late, the act imputf 1 er6 -
ireafonable, is not merit/* 1 " 0 a
Fore that a3 cannot be cr
:ritnc, becanfe no e xiltii" rllo " n,< '^
t one". But allowing ■frrelid-ut's
;o mijpri/icn, by adrri^" ivc ' o! ' J ' :v <
irocfamaJinno have b* n 'he law was
in eftabi;filing to co«|pL the
silent, yet the ftJnary
evidence whichiwch, that nothing
the aggrefWu'of a despot was vr .11 •
short of the (
ting. Aereafter attempt to call
Shall tA of liberty, when neither
Ameridfir locks, or other Ceenvity,
chara/f'etofore held sacred, can pto
howcitizen from tlie rigorous search
teft'-chamber warrant ? Snppofe, tor
1 Ament, I waa seen at the head of one
KHifand, or even ten thousand me t, all
itizens, and all equally free to go wheie
hey plcaC.d, as I supposed myfelf to be
ll one time, and that we were jud ftep
pincr out of the limits of this ilate. pt<>-
grtfiing to a conntiy, 110 matter whether
in or out of the limits of the United
Staus : eould it be conftrtied again!! the
laws of this country, when the preamble
to every constitution puffed in America
declares that nil men are free ? I am no
free to commit murder ; lam not ft ee t<
m?ke depredations upon any in.'> vu'• t:-
of the United States : but ctrtainly
am free to quit tliefe states Mia /pl'ij
to go ivhtre /pfeetf, or 1 o 1 mote a iiavt
to tytanny now,than i wus twcn.y years
a^o.
Ci
V.
/
? C.
If then tliis political freedom is poflef
fed by the citizens of America, art! it
has been declared to be their inherent
right by the general voirt nf: the prepk,
wh.it alfumption of power must it be,
when a set of individuals (hill attempt to
invade or in anv shape diminifhlbat vijrht.
Americans, it becomes your cause rame
immediately than mine ; every indignity
which I have been made to fiifK-r, I have
tlays,* " ptrfon ihall be <on ,
ptiy criminal cafe, to he a witnel* * - ,
bi:»fe)f; nor he depiived of life,
i,i property,without due pitfcefsot law.
W;,.. not the torching ft r paper", in toy
poiief.ion tantamount,had an.y been ftutnd
:i in eahlv to the hop»r, of my nti ieeutoi s,
•Jl* ' - • A
to making nie become a witurts
myf li ? My countrymen, n:y friends,
who have wish me been HiunimMital
in bringing about our uvolut.on, apply
tn vomUKes the eondi'6t wnicb lias bi'en
adopted in this matter. From tlie ami
trary will of George II I. of Cieat L>s i
taiil, we have no longer a pride wixtilt
ing to be free, if the moll sacred tics of
the U'.'tcyi can thus be violated and liam
pled upon.
1 addr. f;: mvfc'f now to my country at
large. Ido it upon (he principle of a
ci'izen (of a 2rr.lt republic which i R jft ft
freed from the shackle . of dt li>otifni)w.'iio
has experienced ?n attack upon his nrivi/'
Icfjes I' Ih-wsthereby plainly. thatthe«
r.' ' ••• atns something dtfonfic eitheY in
\ g.neial government, or in chara/tcrs
• ir> <sC" ■> ihc ex < irtwt part thereof.—
In eithet .cafe, if nfy obfervaui/bs are
;• 'it, a rr—.Hv is nectffury ; it they ate |
uljng,.or the explanations extorted, I
- my count iy too well net to submit
cl r.rfn'lv to coiitiCiion; but on the con
tiarv. 1 pledge ay ft If not to give up
tamely a point which to me appears big
with confeu'Jence refpetting the iutup*'
happiiitfs of America.
S. DRAYTON.
, CONGRESS. I
'' >HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
6. 1704-
of the tfy» bill
\leatmg and-better £,fpt rtmgtne
VLiiabHlhinent of the United.
on p V? objefled to the addition of
\ ftnke\ indequate —he moved to
_ i,ir ' \r,d insert two.
j or]fervc(!V,pp G rt c d the motion ;he |
I to uiduceVjrt; United States, mean !
I tii. 111 figiitjLlifl; w ] lo have an inter
—ta<y mu{^fltti t - 5 0 f the Country ■
j, lie remarked Vter encouragement,
v, ' cl s. generally V meaiis cf living i
tnc perlojjs ; n —that
.•"VAthssr &kriAhc public offices
wereV-ient fSf'tfiSr
tl'e .eglnature for aV petitioning
pay and it is evidenVi' e cf their
• nftan so support an army\ U nless we
tiples from those profefTe\ent pvin
couragement waft be given \ter en
to e " lcr i:lto the femce. \ men
• Clark said he was oppo^^
motion -he thought that gentle\e sw
not considered tie pay of the arm\ |
coring to its real vJue ; there are otS %
tumgs to be taken into confidcraUon, bV
fides the pay and cloathhig— the
cor?:| "C ::r.tion they now receive, with the
pwpofcd addition of one dollar, would be I
round fufheient.
Mr. lioudinoi said it was a mistake, tbat
.aboi-ers, and good laborers, could not be
plained for the wages and allowance of
t.ie olciers. He knew of good lsborers
attuady employed at and ujider the rate
or their actual compensation.
Mi. Scot said that it was in vain to ex
pect men to enlist for the present pay he
knew of no laborers in his part of the
Country, that could be procured for the
allowance ncv-made to the fcldiers men,
vho could eat and drink, and sleep fafe,
and lecurely at home, and get from 70 to
80 dodars a year for their labor, would
ir.rdly be induced to rifle their lives for
the pay and allowance of a soldier !
-Mr. Findley offered some remarks on
the propriety of raising the value of the
rations.
Mr. J. Wadfworth said it had been af
ccrtained on a former occafton, that ta
* *-g into consideration the value of the
jatiring, rating it at 20 dollars per ann.
rv wii.li the roonth-
V.at the coropenia
v ; avcragLfi price
>: r'canfylvaiv.a.
lo tin-' aci.'.al state of
-oodnefs ci men
coirpoftd of as good
-ere ever employed in
Inited States. .They
,ced by good judges.
lifidg , '- lt ■ as to
i jndu:trio»s laborers,
' A ,- U y, he conftdered it
principally compo-
IT/tingl T /ting men—persons
yhy- regular purfaits;
Jccafionß the lubftan-
Trious citizens, d<i not
Vi± force of any coun
?r
•a he fnould vote against
-uio' he was ojipofed to any
is ablifiiment, yet, as cireuniflai
ceS . .fjituatcd, he was in fir. or of com
pleatijg the number of troops originally
intended by the ac.;.
I(c observed that there were no oem
pfcJnttVro't fjrvard from the fold iers—
Lme complaints had been mentioned from
the oficers, but these remained to be en
quired into—he tho't that one dollar ad
dition would ar.fwer the purpose effectu
al-—if the three dollars per month had
Jfcen fu.Tieient to- raise three quarters of
'ihe msn required, one dollar more, ma
king four dollars a month, would raise
the other quarter. ( He added lome J?-
mtirks on the enormous expeiice Vi 1 '- * 1
would attend the enhancement of thym
ic-cafe the United States were called on
to make a great additio* t0 their miitary
Mr. Boudinot added some observations ]
on the fubjeft, ** fapp°fed it might be eli
gible to-mafcc feme addition to the clbatn-
J„rr rations.
Mr. Montgomery said he could not un
derlland, how gentlemen calculated in es
timating the pay of the soldiers aabeihg
equal to that of laborers —according to
is calculations it was inferior.
He said the militia called out so ast
i r ith the regular troops, are never latched
vitb the continental pay.
Mr. Scot said he hoped that fiveldol
,ars would be agreed to —this enccu;..'c
ment would probably induce a fuStient
number of the militia now in the mgh
borhood- of the army to enlilt ; tliXche
coftliftecl jjjvincipalty of a3 "V";o'"--
[v, aftivc youths, as any in the V'.iiud
States.
Mr. Hunter faidthat the state of South
Carolina gave their militia cn the frontiers
eighteen pence sterling a day, and he wn
ceived that it was in -vain to expect to Rife
men at the rcduced wages proposed he
was sure it never could be done in the forth-
cm States.
Mr. Beatty said he was in favor ol th
motion for an encreafe of the pay—bit hi
ihit. d a modification of the business ti re
lation to feme compensation at the eld o;
the service ; he said lie should bring for
ivard a motion in the course ofthe difcufior
Mr. Smiley enlarged on the ideas lie at
irft suggested refpefting the importance
>f committing the defence of the country
ofuliftantiai ir.tereftcd ir
u prosperity.
Mr. irnne addeff some remarks, ii
he concurred fubftantiallv in thd£|
Beatty, and reprobated in le
m, the profligate and drunken cha
afters of many of the recruits in ferv.ee
tS. • Smith, after stating that the
price of labor in Maryland, is for
dollars a vear—tirw' f
ms to thew the extreme nl p»
enhancing the pay at the ptefent
. when a variety of circuniiance:
to «mbarrafs the recruiting ftrviw
war in Europe obftrufted the emi-
PtTv of laborers from that country—
a °Ss therefore were scarce, and ct*nfe«
<jiientV cru : rs f or the a.rnv were not so
eauly i\. ure d as heretofore—but this
state of tfSi s not vvaiT3n t adopting
a permarienV I |, lc ;p] c ; n t j, e enhancement
of the wagesV the fo i tl j erß .
lie was in ?y r 0) - t j ie
by the gentkn*. f rom New-Jeffer, ol
jjjjjituig.. ioo land at the expira
tion of the fervice.\A£ r . Smith was op
posed to the mction\ r 2 dollars, and in
favor of the addition :n the bill.
Mr. Wadfworth addeXfom.e remarks oil
the observations which had been made
respecting the purging the army of diiTo
lute and intemperate soldiers. He conii
dered such ideas as futile. To eipecl
that an army should consist only of lober
industrious men, without vices—we might
5 % O
■ >o $
jutt as well expe&that ah army «
eompofed of clergymen. .
The motion for striking out one and in
fertng'two dollars, was negatived. .
Mr. Clark moved an addition to the ra
tions of 4 ounces of bread or flour, and
ounces of meat. •
Mr. Parker said he was one of the com
mittee on the bijl, he heard of no com
plaint on account of the rations ■ he pre
fumed they were fufficieut, unless it wa
proposed to fat them like pullets or duck
till they became so unweildy that they coulc
not run away or dcfert—he fawno advan
tage in the proposed augmentation ; be
fides he said it would only increase th<
temptation of thefavagesto attempt cutting
off con voys,as bad already been the cafe; h(
said that one half the army is now employ
ed in transporting provisions to the other.
Mr. Fitidley said in opposition to Mr
Parker, tliat lie had heard of more com
plaints on account of taefcarcity ofproviu
cms than on account of thewages : that th(
men had frequently been reduced to grea
{1 raits for the want of supplies—to fuel
flraits as that one of them hid inform*,
him, the sweetest morsel he had ever eater
was a piece of roasted cow hide ; hi fait
it was unju.l and ungenerous, he woul(
not fay wicked, to expect that men in th.
service: of their country (hould iuffcr so
the want of a full supply of neccflan
food. --He did not anticipate the difad
vantages that the gentleman from Virgini;
did ; lie did not think there was any dan
cer of the men's growing too fat.
Mr. Smiley added several remarks cor
robcrative of those of Mr. Findley : b
remarked that a man in the wilderness re
quired more food than one in the more set
tied parts of the country.
Mr. Hartley moved to flrike out tt*
quantities and leave the anfbunt of the ad
dition blank.
Mr. Clark consented to this alteratioi
in his motion.
Mr. Hartley then added some obferva
tions to (hew the neceflitv, propriety, anc
jufJce of adding to the cloathing as wcl
as the rations ; he said that four dollars ;
month, with some addition of the k:nd hi
mentioned, would make the soldiers com
fortable.
Mr. Wadfworth said he was oppoift
to railing the rations to a greater quant!
Tv than would amount to the neccffui'i'-'s o
life. He adverted to the rations allow
ed to the late continental army, whicl
had been found fufficient.
Mr. B. Bourne said that it appeared tc
him that more information was wanting tc
enable the committee to decide with pro
•v.iety; he could vvifli that the motior
{hould lay on the table till that iiuorma
tion was obtained.
Mr. Findley, to (hew that the rations
had not been fufficient,and that complaints
had been made, referred to the communi
cations «ac'e at the lad session of Congress
during the investigation into General St.
Clair's o.pe&itVi.
Mr. Giles also iw e <J s o me information
to the fame point, rei-.; ve d by the feleft
committee on that buhneiv
It was then moved to at» e nd the mo
tion by striking the article v mat."
This motion cccafioned fo*e£further
debate, but before » vote was Uk>i_ Mr.
Clark withdrew his motion.
~ Irvine then moved an r.mcndmc:
the substance of which was that each sol
dier at the eflrftof the service {hould be en
titL'd to ioO af*of laud.
Mr. Findley Imported the —
..he cor.tidered it
kj induce the soldiers to lcttle m thai
country, and prevent many at the end oi
the war from returning to the th'.ck fet
tled parts, and the cities on the sea coast,
and become for want of employment, rob
bers and house breakers.
Mr. S. Smith said the principle of the
motion he considered excellent—it would
produce a more settlement of the
frontiers, and experience Ires proved that
the only effectual plan of repreifmg the m
curiions of the savages is by pushing the
settlements into their country.
Mr. Dearborn objected to this mode of
rewarding the soldiers ; he preferred that
of giving a sum of money at the end of
rhe fervice,fufficient to enable the men to
ptirchafe anumberof acres of land it their
option in any part of the United States,
lie stated a variety of difficulties that had
formerly attended the plan of giving "land
to the soldiers, and fnewed that it had not
answered the purpefe.
Mr. Beatty and Mr. Boudinot offered
several objections to the motion, the for
ner gentleman prelerred the idea cf Mr.
Dearborn.
Mr. Boudinot faidthe motion must M
nended, if the principle is adopted, be
>re it will be proper to agree to it.
Mr. Scott pbferved that the prefentlu
ian war was a war of conquest, and it
•as in vain ever to expea peace on our
•ontiers tiU thelndians were expelled trom
'tat country. He then adverted to the.
rogrefs of thefettkment of the tronuu*
-it hid been effected by driving off th«
ndians and establishing polls ; in this way.
he settlement at Pittlburg was made, and
inlefs you eftsblifh a chain of polls all a-,
aund the frontiers, and garnion them,
nd thus keep the settlers m a state 01 le
urity, there is no better mode that can
ie devised to secure them than by eneou-
the army'to fettle there,
i Mr. Boudinot objected fully to the mo
ion,ha'faid it was pursuing a system whica
Shis opinion had occasioned all ourtrou
: on the frontiers. .
Mr. Findley supported the motion, lie
rifidered the troubles 011 the frontiers as
iginating in a deviation from former
aftice or principles.
The motion was finally rejectee.
K t U e Printer of the Gnzitte of the United
Sf.-f.
! Ifldofcdl&ndy be-trwflatiwtofa
ice biiblimcd in tl".~ city last ip»ng.» ? - s
, eir.s well failed to preface tne account
t'he treasonable prances m South-Ca
,l; ia , and the relolvet of the Democratic
llub in Kentucky. I do not recoil
hat it has appeared before the pubhcHn a:.
Er.gli(h drets.
From the Rajoteur, a French paper pub
lithed in this city.
The Jacobin focietv, whose maternal
or,braces aU the inhabitants of
the globe, has extended her. benevo.cnt
care to the planters of Louisiana ; a peo
ple so ignorant and flupid as to preier
peace, and protperlty under thnr present
loveroment to the noble grat.ficanon of
cutting one another's throats, m oraer to
eiiaMii anion* than the bleffcd system
of equality which prevajU m the trenclj
Iflaods.—With this «w, she hat.) caul; d
the following address to be emulated
among them, by Apostle. whom .he hath
commLhoned and knt abroad to teach all
nations.
LIBERTY and equality.
27*. J'<* iW *• i"- hr - n ■" Lout -
JiGTlii j
The id yetr of the French Republic-
The day in at hand, when tyranny (ball
vanish from the face of the earth. France
emancipated, and fettled in a republican
form of government; having vindicated
the rightß°of man by many iignal vi&ories
over her numerous enemies, is not content
with enjoying the benefits of her
alone ; but proclaims to ;;il nations that
she is ready with a powerful aififlaocc to
second the efforts of those who wish to
follow her virtucus example.—French
men of Louisiana, you yet love your mo
ther country; the attachment is born with
you ; and the people of I ranee are not
ignorant of your fentimepts. With m-
do they view, in you, the vic
tims of ancient despotism—and they ha.e
powerTufficiciit to avenge your caisfe. A
fperjured king, his deceitful minjftry» his
u <e and haughty courtiers, who nad en-
by the sweat a.id blood
of an -rjpiifled people, have all been p'
r.ithed wicked deeds. The French,
their patience -xhaulled, and their pai
fions enraged by »- series of injustice, un
der which they had •■ QO J on g groaned, at
length rose against theV oppreifors ; aud
have scattered them as f«.(\ i$ scattered
before an impetuous wind.—~*-7'ow time it
cow?; Oye inhabitants of Lc\ !—
be inftruiSted bv their great exrj ,!c. It
is high time yuu we're njb longer the fiaves
of Spaio, to wt*h yoirhave been so infa
moufiy fokl ;—^ } is high time you were
no longer, as K'nte beasts, at the disposal
of met;, who have it in their power, by a
fingl.- mandate, to rtk you of all that is
estimable ; your liberty* and property, —
The Spanitli government )r*s farpaftd all
others in the atrocity, as wet ftupidityof
her dopnijaiirtß. With a name execrate!
over all the continent of America, hath
(he r.ot marked all her steps by deeds of
barbarity ?—Hath she not under the hy
pocritic mask of religion ordered or jjer
mitted the massacre of more than 20 mil
lions of men ?—Hath she not, to glut her
insatiable avarice depopulated, impovei ifh
i ed, degraded whole tribes of the natives ?—•
' and hath she not opprefled, and doth she
"X?i'
fa.
\Oi
I
..lis ei
lifgrc
liver
Suits
M:
yrai
on i
King
ion ;
tlurfe
Wulfci
i ibr Q
Jt'ioli
- free
*\Kcn
(port
Avhit
I
futuJust Imported,
Frcm London, Dublin and Gi.isaorr,
A d opening for 'ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
AlNo. 118, Market Jlreet,
A 5-a" pe a>ul Valuable
COLLECTION of BOOKS,
which are the following
NEW Auiiuul Regilterfor 179 2
European Magazine for the fivft si*
months of I 793
- • I 7 J ,
Jnhbohs detlinc and fall of the Roman Rmpir©
Memoirs of the Mancheftcr loc'icty, 3 vo ' B,
l*i"ieftly on matter and f'pirit
on christianity
lays, " no perlon (nail be ' '>t%*
ztiy criminal cafe, to he a
hl iiurlf; nor he depiiveii of ii'r, lifoii'ty
1,1 property,without due piiV.ifsot l;iw-
Wii . not iKe iVarchinjT far paper", in in)
pofivfiion tantamount,had aiijf been found
t<> die hopcr. cf my perlecutoi s,
to making we become a witiirfs ajrainft
it) jf li ? My country inen, n:y friends,
who have with me been mli'i
in bringiiij» about our i.Volu:. .ou, apply
tt> yomiche* the coaidiift vvhich has b> en
adopted in this matter. ITjoin the arbi
trary u ill of George lit. of Cicat liii
taiit, we have no longer a pride sntxtilt
inj., to be free, if the molt sacred tics of
the U'.'ioj: can thus be violated and Itam
*
pled i:pu!i
1 addr-.-fs irsvlV'f now to my country at
large. 1 .in it lipiin the ptinciple of a
Ci'izen (i f ajrtjt rcpuhix r« |nlt
iVn.'. ~n< tin.- il'Lickle ; <<f d-li'oiini))« iiu
ii;i» i xjii'viriH't.'.] :'ti aiiac-ii I'ron Ms pvivi/
lores J' Ih-wsthfitbv
fl• • - * iki -i-te: ! .he/ in
T !:viai i~i':vernmt'"t, or in c'^aAers
• in. i .) i!k a . i.ii'.'t [„irt 11.fi'vO-• —
ft, it uty <>bfcrv;;i]Vjs r.re
In tithci
J v Is nect ff.iry ; if they ate
vm jn;j, or the fxpliiMliotis txioi ted, I
love itiy country too well net to submit
(' Jirfillly to coiniction; but on the con- I
nary. 1 pledge u-jiftjf not to give »p '
tamely a point which to me appear* big
with confeq'Jence refpeitiug the fntuiv
happiaeff.of America
S. DRAYTON. ]
m !■ tm ■>« 9»m »• m ' -mmtm
CONGRESS.
CHOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES.
\ 6. 1794.
VjmrrnUee or the bill
\leaiutg and-better -ftppt rti'iglß;
®*KLltabli{hment of the United.
Y to , -^ le addition of
\ indequate—he moved to
I,ir * Vnd insert two.
o!jiei'vedV,pp ortt d the motion ;he
u . ce \' e United States, mean
111 vv ''° an inter
■ tlwy mufl\ottlea & f the Country
ie remarked \ter encouragement,
were generally V meaps cf living
tae persons emp'Vi ; n Wice—tftt
,u aj|||ca- faWi\he public offices
.; : " J^T and wei 'e Vient f3p- tfifeir
egi (lature for petitioning
pay—and it is evidcnV( e c f their
• to support an arniy\ U nlef» we
tipies from thole profefle\;nt pi in
courafrement r.iuit be given t\.er en
to m tC^ nt ? ?f fenrice. \ men
Mi. Clark fa:d he was oppoiV fu
motion he thought that gentleritoe U
not eonfidered the pay of the arm\ H
eord.no; to its real v.Jue ; there are oNI3
be taken into confidcration, \
tlx pay and cloathi-.ig—tfce whole
con-e isrtiott they now receive, with the
pn.paJcd ;audition of one dollar, would be
:c-;>r!a iufncient*
'r. a r
1 Ir. Loudinot said it was a mistake, tbat
laborers, and good laborers, could not be
obtained for the wages and allowance of
the oloiers. He knew of good laborers
at.mdj employed at and u C der the rate
ot their actual comp^nfation.
Mr. Scot said that it was In vain to ex
pect men to enlist for the present pay—he
knew of no laborers in his part of the
Country, that could be procured for the
allowance ucv.r made to the soldiers—men,
who could eat and drink, and sleep
and iecureiy at home, and get from 70 to
a y«ar for their labor, would
hardly be induced to rilk their lives for
fne pay and allowance of a soldier !
ivlr. Findley offered some remarks on
t ie propiiety of raising the value of the
rations.
Mr. J. Wadfworth said it had been af
csrtained on a former occasion, that ta
into confederation the value of the
'jailing-, rating it at 20 dollars per ann.
A New F., , ne
And to »- . r
U A T "Ji Peanfylvania.
iX. ±\ 1 < L 0 j|i e actual ilate 01
No. 22, j'oodnefs ct" men
TRANSACTIQco« , P ofed of f 3 g
RICAN PH 'ere ever employed ra
SQL*nited States. . lhey
Held at Phijadilptf >ct«i by good judges.
Knowledge, Vof.jiflfe the P 3 }' a ' °
G3* The fubrcrii'., mduftnous laborers,
as above d-ire&ed if^^f 9 ie con "^ eicu
be had, complete fit , principally compo-
men—pevfot.s
\i. An eflay on thofe'i' v Ay- regular purluits;
lofophy, which at -Jcc&iions toe iubilan
al to the Unitsd .' 'Y. ious citizens, da not
e force of any coun-
I 3. Conjeftnres cij,
the earth, V , . n
3 . A new and -a tie fnould vote against
Heat. I.llo' he was opposed to any
». yet, as cireuintlai
ccl n . JwiU,uated» be was in favor of coro-
the number of troops originally
intended by the au.
I{e oblerved that there were no com
plaints >ro't forward from the soldiers —
some complaints had been mentioned trom
the officers, but these remained to be en
quired into—he tho't that one dollar ad
dition would answer the purpose effectu
al^ —if the three dollars per month had
Jft_en fuHieient to - raise three quarters of
Ihe in:n required, one dollai" more, ma
king four dollars a month, would raifc
the other quarter. t He added ioir.e re
marks on the enormous experice wisich
would attend the enhancement oi the pay
iri'cafe the United States were called on
to make a great additio* to their military
force.
Mr. Boudinot <"Ued some observations
3 n the fubjcft. At supposed it might be eli
-ifcle to-mafcc some addition to the cloath
|n<T apd rations.
'Mr. Montgomery said he could not un
lerlland, how gentlemen calculated in ef
imating the pay of the soldiers aa being
qual to that of laborers—according to
s calculations it was iufenor.
fie said the militia called out 50 ast
•>U the re ailar troops, are never laiisht'd
ith the continental pay.
Mr. Scot said he hoped that fiveido!-
.'. s wor.ld be agreed t'—this
aent would probably induce a fufftient
tumUr of the militia now in die ifi?h
lorbood of the army to cnlift ; thiche
coftiifted principally of a3
v, aftivc youths, as any in the I nitvd
States.
Mr. Hunter said that the (late of South
Tarolina gave their militia cn the frontiers
ighteen pence sterling a day, and he bd
■eived that it v. vain to expect to Rite
neu at the rcduccd wages propofedi he
ras fureit never could be done in the fijr.h-
era States.
Mr. Beatty said he was in favor ol the
motion for an encreafe of the pay—hit he
stated a modification of the business h re
lation to some compensation at the eld 01
the service ; he said he should brir.<j for
ward a motion in the course ofthe difcuiion
Mr. Smiley enlarged on the ideas le at
firft suggested refpe&ing the importance
of committing the defence of the country
tofubftantial citizens, men interested in
its prefperity.
Mr. Irvine added some remarks, in
i which he concurred fubftantiallv in th<jli
i dcas of-Mr. Beatty, and reprobated in fe-
terms the profligate and drunken cha
ratters of many of the recruits in service.
\Mr. S. • Smith, after stating that the
Vage price of labor in Maryland, is for
/\i!it dollars a vear—nrcreA c
'r \ions to lt*ew the extreme n. po-
W\ enhancing the pay at the present
kj/is ;\vbcn a variety of circumtances
recruiting ftrvice
X war in Europe obftrufted the emi
f of laborers from that country—
Ss therefore were scarce, and cfnfe
""n" 1 \ cru ' rs for tfie arm y were nat f°
eaiily pCy ret j as heretofore—but'this
of tfV s Jogs no t warrant adopting
a permanenV l .; ru .jpj e ; n t j, e eh&ancetnent
of thewagesV the f o i d ; er3 .
, e WES ln \ir of the idea fogae&ed
by tne gentfenS. f rom New-je:iey, ol
100 a<r£\ o f a t the expira
! tion of tne Smith was op
posed to the motion \ r 2 dollars, and in
favor of the addition pypofal in the bill.
Mr. Wadfworth adde\fome remarks on
the observations which had been made
refpectmg the purging the anny of Jiilo
lute and intemperate soldiers. He conli
dered such ideas as futile. To expect
that an army should consist only of sober
industrious men, without vices—we might
J & o
H.l as well expeftthat an army might be
eompofed of clergymen.
The motion for striking out one ar.d in
fertng'two dollars, was negatived.
Mr. Clark moved an addition to the ra
tions of 4 ounce 3 of bread or flour, and 4.
ounces of meat.
Mr. Parker said he was one of the com
mittee on the bill, he heard of no com
plaint on account of the rations! he pre
iumed they were fufficieut, unless it was j
proposed to fat them like pullets or ducks
till they became so unweildy that they could
not run away or desert—he fawno advan
tage in the proposed augmentation ; be
sides he said it would only increase the
temptation of thefavagesto attempt cutting
off convo" had already been the cafe; he
said that one hair the army is now employ
ed in transporting provisions to the other.
Mr. Findley said in opposition to Mr.
Parker, that he had heard of more com
plaints o.n account of thefcarcity of provisi
ons than on account of thewages : that the
men had frequently been reduced to great
flraits for the want of supplies—-to such
straits as that one of them Ind informed
him, the fweeteil moriel he had ever eaten
was a piece of roailed cow hide ; he said j
it was unjust and ungenerous, he would
not fay wicked, to expccl that men in the
service of their country fliould iuffer for
the want of a full supply of neceffrry
food. -Ile did not anticipate the disad
vantages that the gentleman from Virginia
did ; he did not think there was any dan
ger of the men's growing too fat.
Mr. Smiley added several remarks cor
roborative of those of Mr. Findley : he
remarked that a man in tile wilderness re
quired more food than one in the more fet
tled parts of the country.
Mr. Hartley moved to flrike out tlr*
quantities and leave the anibuntof the ad
dition blank.
Mr. Clark consented to this alteration
in his motion.
Mr. Hartley then added some observa
tions to (hew the neceflity, propriety, and
juflice of adding to the cloathing as well
as the rations ; he said that four dollars a
month, with some addition of the kind he
mentioned, would make the soldiers com
fortable.
Mr. Wadfworth said he was opposed
to railing the rations to a greater quanti
ty than would amount to the necessaries of
life. He adverted to the rations allow
ed to the late continental army, which
had been found fuffioent.
Mr. B. Bourne said that it appeared to
him that more information was wanting to
enable the committee to decide with pro
priety ; he could wish that the motion
(hould lay on the table till that informa
tion was obtained.
Mr. Findley, to shew that the rations
ha 4 not been fufficient,and that complaints
had b«en made, referred to the communi
cations v» a de at the lad feflion ofCongrefs
during the iuveftigation into General St.
Clair's expedition.
Mr. Giles also tw e( j some information
to the fame point, ret_-; vec J by the feleft
committee on that bufineh.
It was then moved to at. en d the mo
tion by striking the article l< mtjt."
This motion -:ccafioned foh, e -ftnther
debate, but before * vote was taKft, Mr.
Clark withdrew his motion.
Mr, Irvine then moved an amend!®© <
the substance of which was that each sol
dier at the end of ' the service (hould be en
titled to looWte of laud.
Mr. Findley the
..he conlidered it which
m induce the lolciers to little m that
country, and prevent many at the end of.
the war from returning to the thick fet
tled parts, and the cities on the sea coast,
and become for want of employment, rob
bers and house breakers.
Mr. S. Smith said the principle of the
motion he considered excellent—it would
produce a more rajiid settlement of the
frontiers, and experience has proved thai
the only effectual plan of repressing the in
cursions of the savages is by pushing the
settlements into their covn;ry.
Mr. Dearborn objected to this mode of
rewarding the fcldiers ; he preferred that
of giving a sum of money at the end of
rhe fervice,fufficient to enable the men to
purchase a numberof acres of land at their
option in any part of the Uuited States.
He stated a variety of difficulties that had
formerly attended the plan of giving laud
to the soldiers, and fnewed that it had not
answered the purpefe.
Mr. Beatty and Mr. Boudinot offered
several objections to the motion, the for
mer gentleman preferred the idea cf Mr.
Dearborn.
Mr\ Roudinot said the motion must be
nended, if the principle is adopted, be
>re it will be proper'to agree to it.
Mr. Scott obfervedthat the present ln-
Jan war was a war of couqueft, and it
as in vain ever to expect peace on our
ontiers till the Indians were expelled trom
lat country. He then adverted to the.
rogrefs of the fettkment of the
-it had been effected by driving off tue
ndians and eftablifhingpofts ; in this way.
he settlement at Pittfburg was made, and
nlefs you establish a chain of polls all a
aund the frontiers, and gr.rriion theni,
nd thus keep the settlers in a state 01 i--
urity, theft is no better mode that can
e deviled to secure them than by encou
aging the army'to fettle there.
Mr. Boudinot objected fully » the mo
ion,haTai dit was pursuing a fyfteffi whica
11 his opinion had occaiioned all our tr;>u
le on the frontiers.
Mr. Finaley supported the motion, he
bnfidered the troubles on the frontiers as
kiginating in a deviation from former
Lattice or principles. j
| The motion was finally resetted. ;•
" Q rf, e Printer of 'he Gazette of the United
S'm tV,r ' •
t_ (of ""
Inclosed I fend yV b ' translation of a
fee pubtifiied in iff city last ipnng ; a.
/ cms well suited to preface th< account
* he treasonable practices in South-_a-
I'.'.a, and thi resolve* of the Democratic
Sib in Kentucky. I do not recoa?ct
hat it lias appeared before the public V> in
Englifti dreis.
(From the Radoteur, a French paper pub
lished in this city.
The Jacobin focietv, whose maternal
tenderness err,braces aU the inhabitants of
the globe, has extended her beoevol. Nt
t care to the planters of Louisiana ; a peo
ple so ignorant and fiupid as to preier
peace, and prosperity under their prefeut
o-overnment to the noble gratification o.
cutting one another's throats, in order to
eftabliih anionr; them the bk&dfyft«n
of equality which prevails in the trench
Islands.—With this >rw, (lie h=>th cawird
the following addwfs to be circulated
among them, by Apostles whom She huth
commissioned and feat abroad to teach all
nations.
LIBERTY ANn EQUALITY.
TU /' tv '-!>■«■ bnihnn ,n Loui
fitin,,,
The id yeer cf the Frcnch R<pulli:.
The day in at hand, when tyranny (hall
vanilh from tiie face of the earth. 1' ranee
emancipated, and fettled in a republican
form of government; having vindicated
the rights of man by many iignal victories
over h'tr numerous enemies, is not content
with enjoying the benefits of her success
alone ; but proclaims to ;iil nations that
(he is ready with a powerful assistance to
second the efforts of those who wish to
follow her virtuous example.—French
men of Loirifiana, you yet love your mo
ther country ; the attachment is born with
you; and the people of I ranee are not
ignorant of your sentiments. With in
dignation do thev view, in you, the vic
tims of anc i;nt despotism—and they have
powerTulf.ciciit to avenge your cause, A
oerjuredlting, his deceitful minjftry, his
1 <e and Vialghty courtiers, who nad en
tnemfelvcs by the sweat and blued
°f an »(Ted people, have all been pi
r.i(hed kicked deeds. The French,
their » x haufted, and their pai
fions enraged by .-series of injustice, un
der which they had \ OO long groaned, at
length rose against they oppreifors ; aud
have scattered them as ?._(t is fcattei ed
before an impetuous wind.—i-Tour time it
con /; Oye inhabitants of LcV ! —
be inftniited bv their great exi. ,c. It
is high time you wAe da longer the (laves
of Spaiqj to wli/'n yotrhave been so infa
moufiy fold ; —■}, 1 s high time you were
no longer, as Rule bealls, at the disposal
of men, v. ho have if in their power, by a
fingl- mandate, to r<A> you of all that is
estimable ; your liberty* and property, —
The Spanish government furpaSed all
others in the atrocity, as wet stupidity of
her dojhnsauiilj. With a name execrate*
over all the continent of America, hath
(he not marked all her ftepa by deeds of
barbarity ?—Hath (he not under the hy
pocritic made of religion ordered or per
mitted the maflacre of more than 20 mil
lions of men ?—Hath (he not, to glut her
insatiable avarice depopulated, impoverifti
ed, degraded whole tribes of the natives ?—
and hath (lie not oppressed, and doth (lie1
out ceafingj oppress you by he.
fcutions ? ■ ■
| uid what hath been the effe£t of all
H-ns enormous wickedness ? Infignificance,
Uifgrace and raffery ih Europe ; wretched
livery, and (kit!) to thousands in Ameri
ia, have distinguished the Spaniih tyran
jjjy.fHWhen lavages intend to gather the
bruits of a tree, they cut it down.—Be
lli :ld a dreadful emblem of despotism !—
'Tyrants, in ihort care little for the condi
tion of the people under thepi. Every
|thing inuft be facriSced to tlyAr gratifica
tion ; all mnft bow to their vdit.—French
nnen of Louisiana! the opprefiions you
liwe endured have too fully confirmed
Illume truths in your experience ; and your
LiCerings have doubtleis imprinted in your
1 breafls the glorious refutation of revenge.
Compare your own conditions with
it-iofc or your friends, your neighbors th<
free Americans. Look on the state o:
.Kentucky 5 a country deprived of a f«
port ; unreasonably fubjedted to (hackle:
I iingL: influence-of a free government grow
s mg with a rapidity, whieh prefagts hei
future greatness, and already impreffcster
ror on the court of Spain.
unravels the secret of despotism, and un
' Ms it's abominable policy. —Men were
'**: to love one another; to unite; tc
; happy ; and so they would be, if those,
mo call themselves the images cf God on
I'ib., if kings did not seek to divide them,
tfiil to G.jpofe theirhappinefs.
: F i"ne population of Kentucky is the
fork of a few years. Your colony, better
firiiited, but deprived of the blessings i !
.Ji ;ertv, is decreafmg every day.—When
j'ti e free citizens of America by perlever
f ir.g induitry have improved their lands,
they are aifured of enjoying the produce
Efcf their exertions : all tliat yen possess de-
BHend.> on the caprice/xjf a viceroy, almost
flfver unjust, avaricious and vindictive.—
gCi'i, tern plate the evils which your own re
' solution alone can remove ; —by courage
[■and energy you may in an instant change
pyo; r conditions : but wretched indeed will
■it be, if you fail to make the attempt; for
the name of a Frenchman, already become
lodious to kings, and the creatures of kings,
■T/ifl eventually make your chains more
■ heavy, and expose you to new vexations,
r —You glow with indignation ; and feel
' within vcu the ambition of deserving the
glorious appellation of free men : but the
ft-ar ixt riii/ir tlw 4r«od of •">* 1 " ■*;*
fupjxjrtid, depraves your zeal. Know
then that your brethren of France, after
having fuccefsfully attacked the Spanish'
dominions in Europe, will ioon appear on
1 our ceaft with a naval force ; that the
republicans of the Weitern Country who
are ready to fail down the rivers Ohio and
MifTifippi, in conjunction with a powerful
body of your brethren will fly to your as-
Cftance, under the auspicious standard of
Galiia and liberty ; —and that our united
efforts cannot fail to secure success to the
undertaking.—Step forward, therefore,
Lcuifianians ; manifeft to the world that
slavery hath not debased your fouls ; but
that you flill retain the valour, the spirit,
and intrepidity of your forefathers ; ar.d
that you are not unworthy of independen
ce and freedom.
It is not to our government, but to
the -'orious domion of liberty that we de
lire to unite you. When emancipated,
you may form a constitUtion for yourselves;
vVich constitution will be supported by
F-ance, as long as your imbecility (hall
make : t necessary.—Moreover you ma'
enter into a triple compact with her, 3 d
the neighboring States of
by a confederation which may be
calculated to advance the political ap com
mercial intereKs of each.—lt is R ,
your parent country will deriveo'" cat a
advantages from so beneficial' change ;
and it is ss clear your glory/ ll not be e '
quailed but by the felicity 7°» a " d
your posterity will rcceiw irom t,ie revo "
lution, if i
Banish imbecility ! Hi wlth te2r •
courage, flrmnefs ; cJ ir f - )(
" Audaces fortt lia j uvat -
A very happy i a
fn.ll strain of conjtruftjon may be render
ed in Engli!h, » Daring vjUainy is too ot
ten profperouß."
UNITED STATES.
GEORGE-TOWN, Jan. ift, 1794'
By the 44th and last day of drawinj
04,000 tickets are drawn, and the grl
prizes ftffl in the wheel—wnich has ga J
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 7.
At a meeting of the Stockholder's of the
Banh of the United Stales, held lajl evening
at the City Hall, the following Gentlemen
were eleded Dire dors of tjmt injlituiiou for
the year I viz.
Thomas Willing, Joseph JM, Robert
Smith, Matthew M'Conneli, Joseph An
thony, John M. Kefbitt, Samuel Breck,
Jeremiah Parker, Isaac Wharton, William
Bradford, James C. Fifter, Thomas Ew
ing, William Bingham, Jacob Do.v.aing,
Archibald M'Call, Ifr-tl Whelcn, Mat
thew Clarkfon—Philadelphia.
Herman Le Roy, John Lawrance, Ri
chard Harifon, John Delafield, Matthew
Clarkfon, Abijah Hammond New*
Youk.
David Sears—Boston.
Henry Nichols—Baltimore
At an election held yeflerday for ofn-
C?rs of the Delaware and Schuylkill Ca
nal Company, :>ndof the Schuylkill and
Slifquchannah Canal Company, the fol
lowing gentlemen were chosen.—
Delaware and Schuylkill Canal.
I. Robeit Morris, Pref.dent.
Managers.
David Rittenhoufe, John N!cho!f.>n,
'illiam Smith, D. D. Walter Stewart,
tandifh Ford, Robert Hart, Benjamin
Morgan, Wliiiam Bingham, Joseph
all, Samuel Breck, Charles Biddlc,
ftrCOiiab Parker.
Tench Francis, Treasurer.
William Moore Smith, Secretary.
SU S QUE KAN X& H AND SCHUYLKILL
John Nicho
Steinmetz, i
Smith, D. E
Bingham, Sai
die, Chailes
ling, Samuel
Tencli |
Timothy
The following articles are copied from
the General A vertifer of this morning.
It mult app r surprising that the late
arrival at Bait icre from Havre (fitnild
cm. tavc flrrnli :s rr.c pliant in (bftK
intelligence- rie Baltimore papers com
municate none and those here who ex
petted to recei information by that ves
sel have been ifappointed. The vefTel
left Havre abot the middle of October,
and this mucfos known, th&t the com
pletion of Finch affairs was then very
favorable; nr..,perhaps tin's may be one
reason why ware not in poffeflion of de
tails, as the cJy of Havre is well known
to be not well Hefted to the ruling partv.
Substance ofa letter from Havre-de
' Grace.
The whounation is determined to re
ceive laws no foreign power. All
perfins fytpited of aristocracy are taken
up. Nflet'i members uave been expelled
theroAC'itJn, being fufpetted of royal
iirni
P e exportation of all articles of firft
isjprohibited. Silks, glass, &c.
. aree to fe exported.'
i iie Spanish forces have been beaten in
evjy- quarter ; snd the king of Sardinia
soon to be left without. a kingdom.
file whole energy of the Republic is
dieted again ft England, and preparations
aj making for a descent, fur which one
Idred thousand men are intended, and
nerchant vefTels in a state of requisition,
i millions have been placed in the hands
he minister of marine for the conftruc
i of boats carrying each four 24 pound
to cover the landing of the troops.
Toulon is blocked Wy 70,000 men, and
expected to surrender.
The troubles of Vendee draw to an end.
We have it from -very good authority,
at a peace is on the tapis, between all the
'eiligeretit powers of Europe, except France,
iujlria and Spain.
| A gentleman, on whose authority full
dependence may be placed arrived in this
city from Jamaica, via New-York, in
forms, Viat when he left Spanifhtown a
Briti(h£acket had arrived there. The in
telligence brought by this vessel was or
dcvii to be kept a profound secret from
t!y governed, but the captain told ourin
f'/finant that the affairs of France were in
. -r-
Canal.
Moiris, Prffvlcnt,
Managers.
Rubei
Ton, Walter Stewart,John
iam'ifh Ford, .William
jnf.ph Ball, William
.uel Brtck, Charles Bid
alefce, Thomas M, Wil
'eieiii h.
lancis, Treasurer.
■ latlack, Secretary.
Qdaltr 16,
a moll flourifhfag situation ; many of the
principal towns in England in r.'lUte of
efferveicence, that traopswerefAit tofop
prefs die fpfnt, but joined the people in
the cry of no par,.' Prufiia, he alio inform
ed, had aftuatly withdrawn from the coa
lition.
Extract of a letter from Baltimore, dated
the 2d inft.
The schooner Eagle, belonging to
Meflrs. Hollins and Barney, has arrived
here from Port-au-Prince.- The Eagle
failed in company with the (fyip Sampson,
Capt. Barney,belonging to the l;.mc hou&,
a 9d fa-'- her captured by a British frigate.
She is' now probably sent to Jamaica. It
is reported Capt. Barney had on board his
fltip, a very valuable cargo, citirnated at
not less than 300,000 dollars, ar.d various
are the conjectures with reipect to his
•probable fate. It is no doubt in
your memory that lie retook his vc.Tel
from an crew the last summer, in
consequence ci which' he armed for felf
defence in a second voyage undertaken
principally to recover aHd bring home the
proceeds of the cargo of the firlt voyage.
It is reported that the next Britiih mail
for the United States, may be expelled
b> a Frigate.
fro\.oitßhsroi\'bi<Nrs.
What blessed times some per fans are anti
cipatitig from the assumption of the powers
'of government detached bodies cf the p>eo
p't ! Ail the confufion, vexation, andtxpence
aienuartt on a di ifion, endfuldivifion of the
piwers of government, which were experi
enced in the days of our af/liElion, are not
fufficient to deter the busy and reliefs sons of
anarchy from attempting to bring us back to
those scenes of humiliation and diflrefs, from
which the new Conflitution has so wonder
fully extricated us.
But the days of infatuation are pnffed—
and disappointment •will attend the plans of
those who would diflurb cur union, and blafl
the reputation tf our country.
IVhat have 1 p hfe fyi Catiline—
Another war may set me on my legs.
A correspondent queries, whether the
paragraph which appeared in a morning
paper of Monday—pointing out certain
reasons for the resignation of Mr. Jeffer
fon, was wrote by a friend or an enemy of
gcr.iltt7wn"» rtputatfmi I—This ccr
refponde.it further aiks, whether Mr. Jef
ferlon did not announce a determination
to resign previous to the difcuflion of cer
tain fubje&s, which it is "ihrc wdly ful'peft
ed the paragraphia alluded to r—and whe
ther it was not in the power of the Secre
tary, to have resigned immediately on
his.discovering, (if such a discovery was
even before made) that " his influence was
but trifling" in the councils of the Execu
tive ?
lu the HouJ'c of Reprefentativei of the V~
tilled States, Thursday the id if ySnu-
ary 1794,
THE house proceeded to colder the
resolutions, reported f™ m the
committee of the whole louse, on the
confidential cornmunicy lo " 3 from the
Ptcfidcut, refpedling measures which
havs been pursued tof obtaining a recogni
tion of the treaty between the United
States and Morocco, and -for the ransom
of prisoners, and eftab-'flhnaeut of peace
with the Algerines--wherei:pon
The firft and C-cond of the said lefolu
tions being Cverally twice read at the
clerk's table, were, on the quefiion put
thereupon, agreed to by the house, as fol
low :
RefAved, that a furr. not exceeding
dollars, be appropriated, in addition to
the provision heretofore made, to defray
any expence which may be incurred in re
lation to the intercourse between the Uni
ted States and foreign nations.
Res illed, that a naval force, adequate
to the protection qf the United States a
gainst the Algerine Corsairs, ought to be
provided.
The third resolution being read in the
words .following :
Rejclvecf', That a committee be ap
pointed to report to this House, the naval
force necefiary for the purposes aforefaid,
together with an efumate of the expences.
A motion was made and seconded, to
amend the fame, by adding to the end
thereof, the words, " and the ways and
means for defraying the fame."
And the queltion being put thereupon,
it was resolved in the affirmative, Yeas 46
—Nays 44.
s 1 - • : MB 1 •
..
tt \Th<: yeas anil naVi lermg aimimlta bY
ffeuV fifth < f the members prefcut.
Those who voted in the affirmative ave/
ThecVoms Bailey, Abraham Baldwin,
John Beattv, r ?hos. Bldurit, Thos. 15-I 5 -
Carne's, Gabriel Chriiiie, AbrjiianiClarki:..
I r aac Coles, Win. Johnfoii Dawfon, } Icti
rv Dearborn, Geo. Dent, V-m. Findley,
W. B. Giles, Chrilt. Greenup, Andrew
Gregg, Wm. Barry Grove, C?rter B.
Ilarrifon, John Heath, Danl. Ileifcer,
Wm. Irvine, Richd. B. Lee, Matthew
Locke, Nathti. Macon, James Madison,
jcfepli M'Dowell, Alex. Mebane, Wm.
Moj!tg»meiy, And. Moore, Jofejh Ne
ville, Anthony New, John Nicholas, A
lcxandei D. O.r, Joliah Parker, Ana.
Pickens, i'rancis Preston, llobt. Ruther
ford, John S. Shtrboariie, John Smilie,
Israel Smith, Thos. Tredwell, Philip Van
Cortlandt, Abraham Venable, Francis
Walker, Bsnj. Williams, Paine Wingate,
and Richard Winn.
Thcfe who voted in the Negative—are
Fiflier Ames, James * Armstrong, Elias
Eoudinot, Shearjafhub Bourne, Benjamin
Bourn, Lambert Cadwallader,David Cobb,
Peleg Coffin, Joshua Coit, Jonathan Day
ton, Samuel Dexter, Thomas Fitziimor.s,
Uriah Forreft, D wight Foster, Ezekiel
Gilbert, Nicholas Gilrnan, Henry Glen,
Benjamin Goodhue, Samuel Griffin, Tho
a Hartley, James Hillhoufe, Samuel
ten, JohnW. Kittera, Am?.fa Learned,
William Lyman, Francis Malbone, Peter
Muhlenberg, William Vans Murray, Na
thaniel Niles, Thomas Scott, Jeremiah
Smith, William Smith, Thomas Sprigs,
Zephaniah Swift, Silas Talbot, George
i liatcber, Uriah Tracy, Jonathan Trum
bull, John E. Van Alen, Peter Van Gaaf
beeb, Peleg Wadnvortb, Jeremiah Wadf
worth, Artemas Ward, and John Watts.
And then the main question being put,
that the house do agree to the said refuta
tion, amended to read as followeth :
" Rjfsivcd, That a committee be ap
pointed to report to this houfc, the naval
force neceflai y for the j.urpofcs afon- <aid,
together with an eftimat- of the exp. i.te,
and the ways and means for defraying the
fame." "
It \v?s rcfolved in tire affirmative.
Ordered, That Mr. Fitziimci'3, Mr.
Goodhue, Mr. J. "VWf'.voi th, Mr. IV
reft, Mr. Malbone, Mr. Bcudinot, Mr.
Parker, Mr. Macon, and Mr. Vpr.n, be
appointed a committee, to t/.e
la it reioiution.
Extract from the Jourr*'
JOHN ' Clerk.
NEW YO/V Jan. £■
A gentleman rai: ity» who arrived
here yesterday ,ln Ni,nt; ;> which place
he left the z' :l Odtober, inform that the
patriots h' 1 taken poflcflion of Lyons;
and th? Cambrajr had furrepdered to the
He also afl«rts that there was no
enery
of peace
P (Tr* Strictures on a paragraph y refpeft
ing the truce with A'gttfs, and otherfavors
—together with the minutes of this day's
proceedings nf tke'lloife of Repftftitaiives
are untitled till to-murruw for wart of
room,
Algerine Robbers.
Ti-morrow afternoon, at four ivVl
he
By M/VnjKW CAREY,
.\< 1 18. Ai.A -K 1 rK I ,
(Piicf « itt.~rf.-r d:.!! r)
An hifcorical and geog:
;raphical account of
ALG i E
EmbcUi&c4- with * M »f>, urim? Mt
loa-n, F /, «s, I u..i s jyi ,<j e >ta #
ana C..u«ji \ I fl.i
S'.ci'v aiu! S 'C-'m-h
Said CAP < y h.;< huh tukVfkrd.
A Map of the Sc: t .>f War in Fnics
of tho Netlitr'-mtk—of Wir.cit—
and of the TenneJFee Govcrnmear
J 3 "
CAST K L L I,
Italian Siay and Habit-Alaker,
X J H(!.- '• , • - •• :n N
c" t'vrvn theitcc
No. - 5
.« t,
s r\ ft • e-v. ~t.n
t'i lid
F r onr a*id Second ; whe
arc made—as Italian fl..ipc, K>ei.c!i coriv:
Engl'fl", S.lk ftirr,
Also, LadlV Habit*, Snrtnms, Gowns, am] ,i)
kinds of dteffes for halls, compl.-ted in the
heweft and mult elegant fafhjon.
Anv ladies in New Y.nk and (liar left ftp'
who may wifti to employ liitn, ami will !>t
plea'cd to fend thuir mea tires Hiail ihi-ir
work finHlied with the utiiioft neatnefj ami
dispatch.
N. B. Sa : d Caftelli bar. an aflortment i.f
ready made stays to fell.
Jan. 7- $t.
r> c .
IV O J
A at'.'cj, iV,| 1()l! A)
6r
•» I. d.: i.j' i »:
•II". v
!| k ...| .1' Si*>
.Bringhurft.,
CQACH-MAKE R,
In (\rch) between from th and Fifth
Mr.-tts, icijoining the 'Epifcppal burying-
J-'foiled,
TAKES ?Kk opportunity of returning his
l*r.at£ful thanks to hts fotmer employee,
and ..-quitting their future favor?, as well as
(hole <>» cite public in general.
He continues to make and repa*r at the
flin reft notice, all kind? of pleasure carriages,,
futli as coac ;<*•', chariots, with ft' d
without crane cuaifes, kitte- •
rcein, '.vi iid for fulkevs and.chaiis a:; d ha rue fs
o?tvevy description, in the neat<ift and newest
falhi^* l -nOMf Jirtvaihng w the United Stittes.
-And befl learned
wt»'d by him,-n'd capital wo»km"n, hu has
1 ot the toft doubt but be wil) Iwiibie to give.!
futisi'a<sj£ko to who pleufc lo employ him •
He Us for Tale, ftveral carries ahr.uft
fi'iilhcd. iuch as eoachfcs, at) ItslUli nSnd<*>r '
chair, »m;sg -n steel fpvings.'ii for '
oil J Oi t«0 horse', and a fulJcq/'-witli a falling :
t "' l • rr
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadetptrd, Jan. 6, ; i794-
Bank of the United States.
j muai y 6th, 1794
NOTICE i: hereby giveb, that theie will
be paid at the Bai.li, 'after the fixteenfh
ipu.iiM, to the Stut'kho'Uerkor their
tut vei. dnlvL authorized fifteen doh..i.; a 'A
li't) cert: t'of each {bare, being t!ie divick. -1
declared for the last iix months.
. Ey Order,
JOHN KE '.19.
o<v Calhier.
To the Stockholders of the Bank
of the Unjted States.
Gtntf< tDfnp
H 'inennvr'nierit *n enntiri'ie *ny
lon j»? in the DitfSioii, I i'qu ft s>ou lo
h <nor t mt -other peilbn w.th your Choice at
the cntUuig'Klrfl 0.1, in tht- ro en of
Y U. mod b d ent S-rvanl,
WILLIAM SMITH.
Chcfmi'-flrett, Jan. 4th. .794.
J 7
Excellent CLARET,
la ho*(beiris and in cases of 50 bottle* cach.
also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In p'pea, hrMj(W»<U vu! qtMf.er cacti,
TOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
*•. Hi, South Fiont-ftrce .
», »?*. dtf
A ICE.
BMNG dcliruu. • >.| o <i I>g
varnot comrrcr
ca c m-erns, and-k t p owcrs hcr*to
fo.c ?'in 'A rd«..t la ihir me b( . rc _
voltrM »nri public i..«ire ol . h> w
»0y P nultakc; I, thr fuY. rlbjr> do hcre .
by m. ke kiuixli to >11 -vhom it co „ ctr n,
(tlat a.I powera and Ict'crs of ailot (J | fvrr y
Hhuctl met cxteix. granted tiy inetoV, s on
or pntont, "rto> to ibe d»V n! j«ily « ((J
tcl t< rmr rtt in my n>mc in Atiimca, JC _
vokrd and .made vo <1.
»J AM £S G.REINLEAF.
an. i. t 794
N O R R I O'URT,
4he L'toary, between Chefnut
and AValnu't- Sti eet c .
George Rut'ter,
RESPECTFUL LV inform* hii«frtendi and
the public In gencrcl, that he
carrying on the bnfinfft of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-(hutted, done in the most
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders <t*roin tlie country will be thankfully
received.andxluly ettended tu.
IVrt-nb - Jo, dtf
E. Oswald,
No. 156, Market-Stieet, South,
A T the r-equeft of a number of friend-,
J~\ propofei puhiifhing The Independent
GAXSTrfeER, twice a week, viz. Yv'rdnefdavs
•nd Satuj^Jays—to commence in January next,
if fuffitient encoeragement offers
It will be published on Paper and Types
equal to its prefei.t appearancc. The fub
fcriptian 3i dollars per ann.
Advertisements not exceeding a fqware,
will be iufet'tad 4 times for 1 dollar—every
continuance one fifth oi' a dollar. Those ex-
square, in the fame proportion.
MONEY borrowed or loaned, accounts da
ted or collected, employer* fuiied with
ctameftics, house rooms, boarding and lodging
rented, let or procured — soldier's, mariner's,
or militiamen's pay, lands and claims on the
public ; (bares in the banks, in (he canals, and
the turnpike load : certificates granted by the
public, and the old and late paper monies;
notet of hand, bills, bonds and morgages, with
or without dcpofus—Bought, fold, or rrego
ciated at N". 8, in Couth Sixth ftrcet, below
Market-street by FRANCIS \VHITE,
Who tranfafts bufmefs in ths public offices for
country peop'e and others, by -virtue of a pow
tr ot attorney, or by personal application.
December 11
•Just Imported,
From London, Dublin and Gr.jsnoir,
Aiirf H»w opening; for 'ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
jit No. 118, Market Jlrect,
A Large aid Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Anmng' whicu are the foflowiiig
NEv/ Annual Regifterfor 1*792
European Magazine for the 'firft si*
mouths «f 1793 ,
Gibbons decline and (all of theßbfiianKilipir*
Memoirs of the Ma ch. Iter focisit)', 3 vols *
Pfieftly o*matttr and spirit
on
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Mcmty, a col legion ofeflays
Varicof Pruflja's works
6bferver-—by M acki ritofti
ftqifell's ancient and ittoderll Europe
'J«anghorne's Plutarch
'Elegant extract*, fupei bly £*lt
?Et£.£ftrit extracts of natural hiifcory
♦Saugnier and Brilion's' v ,
Rochon's voyage to Madugtffcar
Townfend's travels in Spain
TaflVs Jerusalem delivered
SmeHie's translation of Butfon
Berwick's 'hist or y of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
Hiftury of birds
Philips'* iuftory of inland navigation
TT- V >~er f s rational recreations
• f tory of France, in 3 vols. : y
;'.uriofitie » of literature, \vol/;
Whitaker's defence of Mary
Sheridan'* dictionary, 2 vols.
Daw's htftory of Hiudoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
I m lay's of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hud(bn*s Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. John foil
Meeker on executive power
KifT«s of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
T ravels
Vaillaiot's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Bern »>g ton on mater iaVifin and innna^eriahfiii
Berchold's ad vice, to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chaidon's life of V oltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and work 1 ?
Oroaier's defcriptron of China
Murphy's tranflalion of Tacitu*
Godwin on pol tical jnftice f »
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Kelvetius on man
Kaimes's {ketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion.*, or the history of Benign**
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhotjfe's history of the bible
Watson's life of PhHip lid. &r 11 Id.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wan ley's wonders of the little world, called
nlan ,
Wall ■ on the prevention ofdifeafes
Moore's journal rh France
Vfri's travels into Denrna r k,Ruflia,Poland, &rc.
travels into Switoe-land
Raba, t ' s history of the French revolution
Life ot^ ord Chatham
Mallet's »<>rthern-antiquities
M« ther bv' t e(|j ca | j (f t jon ar y
Gregg's ad vice to t'gniales
Hamilton's out; (ies 0 f t he practice of mid
*JferY
Manning's pruftice physic
Cleghorn's dtfeafes of Minorca
Inner on the nmfcics
Pott's works
chem-Htry
Armstrong on difeafci; of children
Qiiincy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Rvan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fever*
Lees botairy,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's cjiemiftry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewises Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on rhe fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on djfeafes oi armies
Haller's physiology
Spahmzanc's dissertations
London of physic
Bell's surgery
Ctoptal's chemistry.
d its
NOTICE
IS hereby given, to the Members of tbe
Insurance Company of'js'oßTH-America,
That the third Instalment, being Two Dollars
on each (hare of the Stock, re to be paid, a
greeabiv to the Conftitufitfn, on the second
Monday [the Jjth day] of January n»xt: And
a General Meeting nf tlie Stockholders ij to he
held on the succeeding day, for tbe purpose of
chnofing Fifteen Direfltn, examining into the
Situation df the Conionny'a Affair*, tind-ma
king fiich additional Rules and Regulations
as they ihall judge necelTary.
KBENEZER HAZARD, Secrat»ry.
Dec. i 6. mwift3. ij
A New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by
R. A I T K E N,
No. 3-2, Marketfirett,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philad -iphi., for promoting Ufeful
Knowledge, Vol. 3. P'ice lcfin haris „
•gar The fubfcrlbers are requested to call
ai above diretted for the 3d vol. where may
be had, complete setts uniformly printed.
Contents of Vol. 3d.
i. An effayon those enquiries in Natural Ph;- j
lofopby, which at present aremoft benefici
al to tlie Unit«d States of North America.
Dr. Nichohi Collin,
i. Conis&'-irsj L-oncei*n'mg the formation of
the earth, &c. Dr. B. Fnwhim.
3. Anew and curious theory ot Light apd
Dr. B, Franklin.
4. Dsfcript'on of the process to be observed
in making lar §e (hcet« of paper in the Chi
ne fe manner, with one finooth furface.
Dr. B. Franklin.
5. Queries and conje&ures relative to Mag
uetifin, and the theory of the Earth.
Br. B. Frank/in.
6. Explanation of a lingular phenomenon, iirft
observed by Dr Franklin, and not fatisfak
torily accounted for. Mr. R. Vatic*Jon.
7. An account of an Earthy SuWiance tcuni
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls ; tojether witn
some remarks on the Falls.
R-dbtit M'CauJfin, M. D.
8. Observations on the probabilities of the
duration of Human L te, and the progref*
of in the United States ol Anif
rjca. William Barton, F.fq.
9. A letter containing observations made at
Lake Erie, on that Angular phenomenon,
by seamen J erased looming.
Ireiu Ellicot EJq«
r Maple-Tree
f - the methods
together with
pub-
10. An Account of the Susp
of* the' United States, and <
of obtaining Suitor frCrn i t
observations upon tbc advai
lie and privWe of this Sugc
Bcnjami
11. Memoir on the use ot* tb«
m di {covering Banks, Sou)
Jonathan
12. An Account of the niof
of prevjrn.tiflg the
of the bite of the Crotalus 1
tie Sna-ke. PenjJinin Smith
13. Magnetic Obferration*,
verfity of Cambridge, (M
14. Accurate determination
cervfiou and declination of
Pole Star. Andre
tf. Arrntvnf of (ev«*ral Houfc
{truck with Lightning, on
David I
t4k An Account of the e;Te<
Lightning on a H-aufe fur
Conductor*. Djhh<l Ruttn<
Hopkinfon, ifyrs.
Experiments and Obferv
ration 111 cold Air. C.
18. Postscript to Mr. Ba tol
Dr. Rittenhou r e, of the 17, J
10. New Notation of Mafic.
Mr.
!0. Obfenrationt on the Tha
Milli, tee.
19. Aftronoinical Obfisrvationi
Davit
in. A letter relativie to a metl
the film of the fevera] po-*ei
& c . David ft a
21. Index Florae Lmcaltrien
Henrico Mvhlnt
22. Investigation of the powers
kerN Mill, an improved by Ja|
with a defeription ot the mill
23. A Therniometrical Journal
peratureof the Atmofp'nere aij
voyage to anil from Oporto, \*
torv observations thereon.
Jonathan f.\ j
24. memoir of observations ou the ant. j
denominated CrvP w> g am i ck - ,
M. Dc Beau\ r.
25. A letter, containing observations <Jt he
ancient worlcs of Art, the Native Ifcbi
tants, &c. of the Western Country.
Major Jonathan Hu.
26. An account of some ot the principles
employed by the North American Infins.
Exrra&ed by the late Mr. Hugh Man
27. An account of the beneficial eifefts Ohe
Caflia Chanisecrifta in recruiting worfc.it
lands, and in enriching such as are naftl
ly poor; together with a botanical defy
tion of the plant.
Jama Grcwucay of Virgin
28. An account of a hill on the border f
North Carolina, supposed to have be< 1
volcano, in a letter from a Continents 1
ficer, to Dr. J. Gnemcay, Virginia.
29. An Accountof a poisonous plant, gii
tng spontaneously in the southern pa#t
Virginia. Extra&ed from a paper
Dr. Jama Grcenivay y Vi?gi*n
yx Description of*a Machine for mealm ir
Slip's way. Francis liopkir.fon, Ffj
31. An Inquiry into the quefcion, wheitlwr
Apis MelUfica, or true Honey-Bee, is a
tive of America. Benjamin Smth
22. An Account of a Comet.
David Riltcnhatfcifjq.
33. Cadmus pr a Treatise on the ElemeW <
Written Language, illustrating, by a P*J<
fophical div'tfion of Speech, the powerN,
each cbara&er, thereby mutually fixing tl
Orthography and Orthoepy. With an Eli a
on the. mode of teaolring the Deaf, or Sui
and corlbquffntly Dumb, to fpealc, by Wm. }
Thornton, M. D. Honored with the M 4* 1
gellanic Gold Medal, by the ■'
Society, in December, 1792 N. %. i
Cedmui is printed in a fine 8. vol. and fold
by the Publisher bereor.
34. Gbfervatiom on the Theory of Wafer-
Mills. W. Waring^
35. An Improvement on lVJetalic; Conriurtorj
or Lightning rods. Hubert Patlcrjon,
"Honored with the Magellanic Premium, by
an Award of the Society in December 1 792.
36. An easy and expeditious method of dif-i
fipating the noxious Vapour commonly
found in Wells ai d other fubtrri aneous
places. Ibcntzir Robivfcn, ffq.
37. A method of draining Pnnris in level
grounds. - JeJJc Wiggins*
3S. Observations on the feverityof the win
ter, 1779, 1780. Ktv. Mmtlicw fVijan.
39- A Defeription of a new Standard for,
Weights a:id Measure 1 ;; ip a letter .from
Mr. John Cooke, ofTippcrary in Ireland.
40, JJefcripli in of a SPRrao-Blocit, defined
to aflift a Veifel in failing. Ffumi* Ilep/n'n-
Jln, Esq. Honored with tic Magellanic
Gold Medal, by an Award of the Society
in December 1790.
Dectmbtr 23.
ALI. persons having any dem;tnd
the Estate and EfFeil* of Mri. MAR
StNDIIEY, widow, late of Frankftnd, Ox*
ford townlhip, in the State of Peimfylvani*'
decenled; are defircd to produce their r-c*
counts to Jacob Lkshek and
(in Frankford, aforcl'aid,) Executes and jftf.-'
miniftrators of the above in o:der lor i'cttfe
mrnt. And whoever is indebted to Paid r.f
tate,&c. a'e requested to.make payment to
the af»refaid Adminiflrators, on or before t!;c
i6thoi' March, 1794, or they will be dealt
with according to la"'.
Fraukfbrd, Dec. 16.
Stock
Sc. 16, Wall-street, Niw-Yom;
THE Subfsnbtr intending in cobSik- himfelf
entirely to ilie PUKCIIASt &SALKoi-
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b.gi lca»e to of
fer his fetviccsto his Iricnds and others, in the
line ol a Slock Broker. Thofc who may pleafc
to favor him with their business, mav d< prnd
upon haling it traofefted wuh the uinuft fide*
lity and difpaith.
Mujk, if. D.
ll"hevmomet«r
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the Uftitrri Stat(f f will he ftri£lly
attendrd to. LEONARD BLKfcCKJER.
riilitas, Efj.
f9e<shtal means
\* confcquerces
rridm, or Rat
'■artortj M. D.
nde at the Uni
hchufetts.)
Just publilhed,
And to be fold by Stewart & Cccbrtn,
S. IVi/lie.mf.
f thf, right af
-10016*;, and the
Etiuotty Eft.
iij Philarlelplia,
UDC 7th, 1789.
Htnhoufey f.fq.
k of a stroke of
Ifhed with two
\ufcy and Francis
United States Rcgifler,
Containing, belidcs accurate i>nil complete
lilts of all t.'ie Officers ill the general, and ihe
principal Officers in the particulai govern
ments, a variety if information, ufefal for ail
daffes. tf
Robert Campbell,
ions on Evapo
jjlar, M D.
No. 54, South Sccond-Jlrget,
Seconddoor b;low the comer ot Cheliiut-ftree t f
HAS IMPORTED,
By the !»>e arrivals fiom Britain anil Ireland,
A large and general AJfortmcnt tf
New Books and Stationary,
Which wilt be difpoled of 011 the lowert terms.
Dec. 23. niwi-fif
j Letter, to
March, 1791.
. rgttcrfon.
•y of Water
IV. Waring.
'itlenhokfe,
I of finding
>f the Sines,
SOujf, tjf.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths 1$
No. 42,
»■/>.;r>,
t Or. /Bat
es\uhley,
W-Ming.
P t>Acm
ift ea y" a
,4th <\na-
SOUTH SLCON'D-STREET,
HAVK FOH S.\ Lw,
An elegant AJferitnent of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY fine CUTLERY,
Which they will diTpofe of on the m'-ft rra
fonabie terms. Device' in hair, Miniature",
pett, and every thing in the go d and Silver
*»y, done as nfual.
84,
i-F.W BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
By K CAR E Y,
No. uStyIARKET-STREET;
A large and v? vable co n ej a; on O fBOOKS,
imported froirtr oodoo in the Mohawk.
Dec. 19.
At . meeting ol thr u[ |, lklr>n „
"/tejbhf'l, '^ v .riica, Nov. 25, 17x3.
b« made 011 the I
-I hookjot this office iutwern the it I, day I
«l June ami .he fi,(t M UP!day , n j u | V) , nd k<r . I
twernthe ,fh day Drcetuber »iid the si.st £
Monday el January f0110w,,,*, tK> , , clt _ 5
Ilxutt froin the miriuiot,
R N ?E K '^ AIAi D, Sfcrr ary.
<C/» Gentlemen, tti poffefficti of Subfiription j
j£#«7 ,/* Gazette, are recuejled t, '
them to the Editor's Office.
PHILADELPHIA •
i\ted by JOHN FENNO, No. ,
Sautn Fourth-Street.
Brokers Officc,
No. 34, South Second-ftrtct,
THE
For the Year. 1794;
eodaw.
t&l'tf.
row&rfrf