o,ncttr of tin &Mes
• V
EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 79 of Vol. V.]
For Amsterdam,
The new fact-failing, coppeß
bottomed SHIP
mm ADRIAN A
K. Fitzpatrick, Mailer.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight orpaflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. fcf JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land rf required.
March 6, 1794' dtf
For Sale or Charter,
ANDROMACHE,
(an American bottom )
John Moore, Master ;
Is a stout good vefTel, abo\it two years old,
burthen 23a tons, has only made three voy
ages, and may be sent to sea at a small ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
Wharton & Lewis.
Feb. 11,1794. dtt'
For Frederickfyurgh and
Falmouth,
(Rappahannock River, Virginia)
—m THE SCHOONER
Friend/hip,
Henry Macnamara,Mafter
Will fail on Saturday next. For freight or
pailage apply to the Captain on board, at
John Wain's Wharf, or to
Emanuel Walker.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
VIRGINIA TOBACCO, FLOOR,
WHEAT, and GINSENG.
March $. 3twff
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the lafl Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, dcceafed,
TheHoufe N°. 245,
AND
Lot of Ground
On which itftands, wherein James Biddle
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
street, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet 10 inches in
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold fub
jeift to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their fuccefiors
forever. For terms apply to
Samuel Coates,
Jonathan Jones,
Anthony W. Morris,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Mdrris, dee'd.
*eop
March i, 1794.
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, JAPANN'D
PLATES, &e.
Done in the molt elegant manner, and after
the firft matters ; likewise,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finiflied at the (horteft notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth flreets.
March 4.
WHEREAS an alias fubpaena has issued
out of the Supreme Court of this Com
monwealth, at the fun of Marcaret Evans,
upon a petition preferred by the said Marga
* it, praying for a Divorce from the bonds of
Matrimony, entered into with Robert Evans.
This is to give notice tothefaid Robert, that
he be and appear at the said Supreme Court, to
belitld at the City of Philadelphia on Monday
the seventh day ot April next, at the Staie-Houfe
in the said City, to answer the matters alledged
in the said petition,
W*. CHAPMAN,
Sheriff of Bucks County.
March 5, 1794.
T# Robert Ivans.
Friday, March 14, 1794.
Excellent CLARET,
In hog (Wads and in cases of 50 bottles cach.
ALIO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUCHAN,
No. in, South Front-ttjee*.
Jan. e, 1794.
In the Name of the French
E Republic.
VERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commiflions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents oi the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
(March 6th, 1794, 0.8.)
The Mimfter Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. i* AUC HET.
The Editors of rewfpapers within the
United States, are requested to republic the
foregoing notice. d
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amlterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-ftrset wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes 9
A J&w bales Holland Ducky
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
jiuj's Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious Ji-z.es.
She at butg Paper >
Swedes Iron y fqnare and flat barsy
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats>
A quantity of Junk and Oakum > &c, iS>c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
should application be made within a few days {
otherwise Jhe will take freight for Amjler
dvm.
March 1, 1794.
A RECOMPENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
15 hereby offered by the Ptefident and Erec
tors of the Bank of the United States, to any
perfoa who ihall, on or before the full day of
May next, produce lo them such a plan and ele
vation of a Banking House, as (hall be approved
of by them.—A plain, yet hand'.ome Ironi is
dcfiied : The whole building is to be fubftaniul
and commodious with as much space around it,
as th* size of the ground will admit.
The Lot on which the building is to be erect
ed, is situated on the weft hde ot Third-ftreei,
between Chelnut and Walnut-streets in Phila
delphia ; and its dimensions are n° fed on
Third-ftrect, and about 100 feet wcitward.
THOMAS WILLING, Pielidcnt.
eop 3W.
A Journeyman Bookbinder
WANTED,
Who can be recommended for his industry
and sobriety—He may hear of employ by
applying to Mr.HENRY Kammerer, No. 249
North Third-street.
March i.
A Slitter of Iron
WANTED.
A MAN well (killed in rolling and
flitting Iron into Sheets, may have
good encouragement by calling on the
Printer. Feb. 27. eop4t
Treasury of Penn stl fjnia,
February 14, 1794«
PUBLIC Noticc is hcicby given 10 all peilons
indebted co the Commonwealth, tor mimics
borrowed ot the Trustees of the Loan Office,
eflablifhed per atl of the 4th ol April, >785,
that the time is expired wtien the lall pay meni
(hould have been mane, and every julltfiable
indulgence having been granted, That unlets
they come forward and pay off their refpe&ive
balances on or before the full day ol April next,
precepts will issue agatnlt all delinquents with
out regard to persons or circumllances. All
former and exiting (heriffs, who have money
in their hands belonging to said Oftcc, are re
quested to bring it 10 me on or before the above
period, othcrwife I (h ill be under the difagrce
able neceflity of prosecuting them without ail
tiodioa.
CHRISTIAN FEBIGER.
P. S. The Printers throughout the State arc
requested to inkrt the above ip their papcift lor
the information of ihctr fcllow-cuuciu. d
AND
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at bit Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street:—
A few Bales oi Slieetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of low-piiccd Cotion H<*ndkeich»efs,
A Quantity ot Souchong T\a, Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto. *
Holland Cm in Cases,
A ot Britnltnw,
With a Variety of Vulter Goods.
Feb. 20. 3 aw6wr
For Sale by the Subscribers,
MUSCOVAJjO Sugar in hnds.&bbsl.
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of fupcrior quality, in pipes
and quarter tasks.
Spanifli Indigo.
Boiton Beef, in barrels.
And a irnall invoice of Muslins.
NALBRO' & JOHN If HAZIER*
No. 164, South Front-ltreet.
March 8,
Scheme of a Lottery,;
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, deducli. g 15 per Cent, from
the Prizes—-this Lottery conjijts of
38,000 Tickets in which there are
14,539 Prizes and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an halj blanks to a
Prize.
npnt. Ducttursof the Society lor ellabiilhing
X lileiul Manufactures, hearing icloived 10
cnCt LOT 1 LK J L 5 tor riding On £ Hu ndkiu
Thousand Doll aks, agreeably 10 an Act ot
the Ltgiflfltuic ut the Sutc 01 New-j-iley, navi
appointed the toilowiug to lupertuteud
dim ducd ihc drawing o! the iaine,vi4. Nicho
las Low, Rut us ktug, He t man Lc Hoy, Jo nits
Watiou, Richard Han. lon, Abijau ftaimuoud,
and Cort.eiius Ray, ot the city 01 New-Yoik—
Thomas Willing, Joicpb ball, Matihcw ivl'Con*
nci ano Andrew bayaro, ot the cuy 01 Phua
deipuia—Hu Excellency Richard tiowrjl, clq.
hlias Boudinoi, Gcneial as Dayton, jjm.s
Parker, John liayai a, D»cloiLc»is iioui.aui,
Samuel VV. Stockton, Joinua M. Wallace, Jutepn
Bloomiielu, and Eliiha Boudmot, oi Ne w-Itr.
fey, who ottei the following Scheme ot a Lot
t f), and pledge them leive» 10 the public, that
tliey wilt take every allui.iucc and precaution in
their power to have die Monies paid by the
Managers, Irom tin*e to nine-, as received, into
the Bauks at New-Yoik and Philadelphia, to
remain toi the puipoieol payiug Pnz s, wruch
lhall be immediately difcnargcu t»y « check
upon one ot the Banks.
d—tf
SCHEME:
1 Prize ot 20,000 Dol.al* IS 20,00©
1
8
5
10
20
1 GO
300
1000
2000
3000
8100
1 4»539
23,461 bUukt. First drawn number, 2,000
(luvvu nuuiL.i.l, 2,000
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
The drawing will conimehce, uridtr the i,
fpc&ion ot a Committee at the bu pen mend <un
as loon its the Tickets are fold,ot which tune
notice will be given.
*d s t
Tne Supenntendants haVe appointed John N.
Cumtniog, oi Newaik, Jacou R. HiiUcnberg,
ot New-Bruutwick, ana Jonathan Khea, ol
Trenton, as immediate Managers iheieot, who
have given ample lecutny tor ditchaiging the
uuft reposed in them.
\f<T in order 10 fecurethe pun&ual payment
of the Prizes, the Supefiutendanisot the Lottery
have directed thai tne Manageis ihaileach cmci
into bonds in 40,006 dollars, with tour iutficiem
fecuritus, 10 peitocm their intti uctions, the lui>.
(lance of which la
J. That whenever of the Manager
ftialt receive the sum ol Three Hundred Doiuis,
he thill immdiatcly place the tame in one of the
Hanks of New-York or Philadelphia, 10 ihc
tiedu oi the Go\ernor of the tacit cy, and luch
ol the SupermteDdams as live in ilic city where
the monies are placed, to remain there until the
Lottery is drawn, tor the payment of the Prize*.
li. The Managers to lake lufticicnc iecunty
foi any Tickets they may trust, diner wile to bi
relponuble for them.
111. To keep regular books ol Tick is fold,
Monies received and paid into ilie bank, ab-
It/ads ol which (hall be feni, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paieiloo, January i, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle,
mm, information will be given where ticket*
may be h«»d.
Kbriury 24.
fmw4W
ic,ooo
5,000
2,000
io,ooo
io,oo<>
I^,ooo
1,000
500
100
5°
20
*5
IA
»0,06<
if,oo<
10,000
15,000
20,010
30,000
36,000
hi. 000
26.1,000
■u&rtr.
[Whole No. 537. |
Longrejs of the United States.
Houfc of Reprefentativcx
Thursday, Msrch 12.
The following (ketch, contains the sub
stance of the observations made by Mr.
Sedgwick when he introduced the reso
lutions, inserted in yesterday's Gazette :
After having introduced the subject,
he said, that the great object which ought
to direst our deliberations on this occasi
on, Ihould be the preservation of peace*
In the infant state of our government, and
under the peculiar circum(lancc» of our
country, we have much to lose, and no
thing to gain by war. America, he said,
had progrefled in the means of happiness
with a rapidity unknown in the history of
man, and at this moment, independent of
the prefiure* of which we now complained,
& which he truiied would be of (hort dura
tion ; polfcfTed a greater (lock of enjoy
ment than was ever indulged to any other
n:ition,
This doubtless added to the injury of
disturbing our happy state, but at the
fame time it rendered it the indispensable
duty of the guardians of the public secu
rity to proceed with caution, and coolly
and temperately to examine every step
which might be taken at this important
conjuncture.
During the conflict which had convul
sed Europe, the conduct of the govern
ment had been irreproachable. Always
just—as the last appeal was m»de by the
btdligerent powers, it was very correctly
determined, that unlejk we would take
part, we had m rigfct to decide on the
justice of the wagv nor tu influence its
events. IThus wifely determining and ho
norably condu&ing,the right* of neutra
lity (hould have been allured to us. But
unfortunately neither our sentiments nor
our conduct have been reciprocated by the
belligerent powers. The honor of our
country has been insulted, and our rights
& the property of our citizens violated.
Much allowance indeed ought to be made
for the operations of the passions genera
ted by war ; but after every deduction on
this account, we had much to complain
of and to demand compensation for. Tho*
peace Ihould doubtless be our object, yet
there was a point beyond which injuries
would become intolerable. That point
he hoped was not yet approached, but he
could not help remarking, that if rece®:
information was true, one of the bellige
rent powers, Great Britain, if not fully
determined in holtility was at lead indif
ferent to that event.
Mr. S. Then went into a minute ex
planation of some parts of his refutations,
which although necelfary to him as the
mover, yet not involving any of the great
principles of his motion, his remarks in
these particulars are omitcd.
He said peace being our objedfc, we
ought to piefent to the Belligerent pow
ers, motives of policy aud inure it to co
operate w'th confederations of justice, in
their eondudt towards us.
Ihe form contemplated would enable
the government to present a firm counte
nance of refiitance in any part of our ter
ritory where an attack might be contemp
lated. He believed, however, that the
experience of Great Britain had convinced
the world that America was unconquera
ble. No power or combination of poweif
would, he believed, be competent to that
purp >fe, or to dismember our country and
poffeii any fe&ion of it.
There was another objeA of great im
portance, to which, the proposed force
might be dire&ed, and to wnich he be
lieved it would be competent. To under,
stand the proptiety of this general obfer
vatiou, it was neceflary to review the pre
sent conduit of Gieat Britaiu ; and the
motives which produce it. That coun
tty is now ardently purfutng conqucfts
in the Weft Indies, and expels by them
to indemnify herfelf, for her expencea in
the war. Her colonial pofltflions on this
continent, and contiguous to the United
•>State* arc the source, from which (he
hopes to supply her profitable Weft India
colonies. l-iou> this conlideration they
w 1*- ' ICT ' and as fl>e c "tends her
~ ludla " dominions, these colonies
will become more and more the object 9f
her icgard. Ihey are contiguous to us,
and within fti iking dilhiuce of the force
contemplated by the refolutious. " Tho',
laid he, 1 hope the ambition of conquell
wilt never direct the government of this
country, yet if injuries become intolerable
and retaliation our duty, we mult inflict
wounds in thole parts where our enemy fs
vulnerable." When Great Britain (l,ould
rcnefl that so severe revenge may be tak
ei., that the means of inflicting it are al
ready in the hads of government, Ihe will
be cautious of wantonly incurring our re
leiitiucnt.aildlhe has surely nojull grounds
''(jurious con duel towatds this coun
try.
1 tiefe he said were the objects of the
force contemplated by the resolutions—
there would be objections to them plaufi
b.e perhaps solid ; there was one at leall
rcfpetiablc, from the motive in which it
originated—the jealosy of freemen, of a
uanding army, and the consideration that
a militia (hould be the force— the instru
ment to defend and fecurc the exiltence of
republican inttitutiong. To a certain ex
tent the principle was coired, and the iea
lotrijr well founded. This principle and
this jealousy had influenced the conduit
of the patriots to whom the defence of
America was intruded at the commence
ment of the late war. But by experience
the only unerring guide in political inves
tigation, it was discovered, that the prin
ciple was extended too far— by it the union
was brought to the brink of ruin, and
was only saved by an immense expence of
lives and treasure. By the ftort inlift
ments of militia, they are incompetent to
long continued exertions. If inlitted for
a conhderable length oftihie, though they
■nay be denominated militia, they became
polk (Ted of all the properties which are the i
f.H.'-ce of thejeafoufy °f standing armies,
"'"lifted for fliort periods, just as they
assume the character of soldiers, their term
of iniillment expires. By experience it is
known that no consideration can induce
them to continue beyond the Specified
term ot service—hence at stated periods,
the country is left naked and defencelefs.
L th * wa S es of militia will always
exceed those which will be required to
procure a regular force. This the experi
ence of the late war taught us was in the
proportion of two or three to one ; and
the want of discipline and subordination
will always occalion a prodigious wafteof
public and private property; and What is
more important a want of the habits of
lo.diers, a lamentable wade of lives.
As long as we depend on a militia alone
for repelling foreign injury, fhortofadi
rett attack on our territory, foreign pow
ers will not believe we poflefs either the
will or the power of vindicating our rights
or retaliating their injuries : Besides when
It IS remembered, that (hould there be no
war with a foreign power within two years
and an half from the time of commencing
the lnliltments, and that time was not
thought to be too long, considering the
; a ' e °/ Euro pe. then the force is to be
dnbanded ; remembering too, tfiat they
are to be trained 24 days in a year, and
never but in detached corps, and that of
course during peace, they will remain dif
perled, and almost the whole time repofing
in the bosom of civil society; when these
circumstances are remembered, it will be
impossible to suppose that such a force can
be formidable to the liberties of thepeo
•ii"7 " to conceive that they
will suppose they pofTefs interests diftinft
from, or opposed to those of the commu
nity of which they arc a part.
It might not be improper, he added,
to ttate as far as he was able the probable
amount of the expence of the proposed
eftabli/hment. He had made a calcula
tion. The regiment is to consist of 1000
privates ; this number is purposely large,
tnat the expence of officer might belefs
one sergeant major and 50 sergeants to
«ach regiment, would make the whole
number of non-commissioned officers and
pnvates ioj . men. These, at 12 dollars,
for the si.it of cloaths, per annum would
make the expence in this article 12612
: and the 2 4 mnfter-days, at half
a dollar a day an equal sum, in all 25224
dollar., which multiplied by Iy, the num
ber of regiments, gives a total of 378440.
He had not accurately ascertained the
amount ri the officers' pay, but believed
it would be about 14820 dollars, making
thr l w , !lok 393.260 dollars per annum,
he whole expence of the proposed auxil
aiy or prov.i.onal troops. He called
hem auxiliary m reference to the cooo
egufors wh, c i, now belong to t [ lc „ u ] lta .
y ettaM,foment of the United States
" wt " ch we Should be able to brinj.'
20,000 men into tlx- KIJ. a number com
petent to any purpoi'e f ur which they
would be wanttd.
The resolutions contemplate as a pro
vable contnigence the propriety of laying
in embargo on American vessels and pro
•ib'ting the exportation of the product
n !!' ted Statcs > Jf fl^h an em
ia'P " IaJI be »ecefi r -iry the operation can
>e better performed by the Prelident than
3y the Legislature. In a body as num.
as the Leg,flatus, it is impossible t.
keepl a secret for any length of time, an,
the delays which the necessary forms re
imre, would be such, that the effect o
the meafnre would be loft before fimUl,
adopted—for every iliip and all the pro
uce which poffibiy could, would imme
iiately be put out of the reach of go
vernment. ®
The reasons on which this idea of ai
embargo are founded, are, that Grea
Britain cannot supply her Weft Indie;
except from the United States. If thi
s in any degree true, in peaceable times
low muth more powerfully mult it ope
ate now they have a confi'derable milita
J force there to feed, in truth, withou
upphes from this country, they mult ine
stably abandon a projeit, with them i
avoume one, the conquelt of the Frencl
weft Indies.
In this iituation of affairs he believec
t would be found proper to put into th
lands of the Pref.dent a power to la
his embargo, and in a moment to preven
ill lupplies going to the Weft Indies—
great occasions confidence must b
epofed in the executive, and the univer
al conhdence 111 the present head of tha
lepartment, would prevent all fears of it
>emg abused in his hands.
When we are once in the situation con
emplated by the refoktions offered, an<
we are then obliged to exert the mean
n our power for o.lr defence (but he he
we ftould not be impelled to this di
greeable necessity) we can speak a mai
t • "J-fj Uage to a ">' < " lc w ho may attemj
He was persuaded, that if a country
does not rdpeft itfclf it will not be
-pefled by others nations; that if a na
tion is not vigilant in guarding their rights
they soon will have no rights to guard •
■f they receive insults and injuries with
impunity they will fuffer injuries and in
lults without end.
1 his is not the time, fa.'d he, for fee
ble measures— a manly conduct ought to
be purfued-a conduct worthy of our
brave and honorable constituents: Thev
have bravery to .alfcrt and resources to
vindicate their rights.
He did not wi(h the government to
speak in the language of intimidation ;
but in the manly tone, and in the lan
[ guage of a free and independent nation ;
! cone,ous that (he po(Te(fa rights, and has
he means of defending them. We
should tell the belligerent powers, that we
can make every reasonable allowance
\ r - a , fta V f Wr : ~ That w have rights
unw 'I 0 be . the f P (>r t of wanton and
unprovoked violation. We should mark
a line, and boldly declare, that we will
not permit ,t to be transgressed. Such
firm and manly language, backed by the
means of enforcing refpeft, and retalia
thl g f njU r eS ' apac,t >' of withholding
thefupphes neceflkry for the prosecution
of a favorite object. A refpeftable and
aflive force, ready to strike in a vulnerable
quarter—such laguage under such circum
ltances must be heard and he trusted, would
produce the desired effect.
He had the more confidence that this
would be the cafe, when he refleded that j
Great Britain would have no possible mo
tive of mtereft, or ambition in a war with
this country. She was now draining every
nerve, and was obliged to call forth all
resources— though (he might be did t0
enjoy national prosperity, yet her fubjefts
expenencedmuch individual misery. The
jntmup. f her commerce, with the
,~; d States, would doubtless add to
Jff^ arTa ? nentS : and degree
afieft the resources on which (he denud
ed for the prosecution of the war. On
r a ' U !,'- was not hing in our
p£ She W W ■ COuU c " m "
P n had no injuries to revenue
'XSJS? " ob ° i '
He next turned bis attention to the
forThV " ' ,;ch flm<:s drawn
/ " ee " tloft :of the Plan pronofed,
andexposed a firm reliance on the patri,
otjfin of the people of America, who, h
beheved, would tearfully submit and co „e
tribute.,l any manner whichCongrefsmigh
judge proper, m Support of their%ht«t
and to vindicate their national honor,
rie adverted to some observations which.
he (AAAJ'' ifina:from Mr - which
he said.did honor to that gentleman ; but
he could not agree with him i„ thinking
that a land tax, was immediately neceflary.
He believed it as yet unnecessary to touch
that great resource; and if it is unneceflary,
>t IS rot expedient, [f it mult be re.
emred to, however, he believed the peo
ple had virtue and patriotism enough to
lubmit, without murmuring.
He concluded by that the
nation of whose treatment we have a right
to complain, viewing our. refoiirces, will
refleA fenoufly on the consequence of im
poling any further injuries, and for their
own mtereft fake, will permit us to con
tinue id a llate of tranquility and friendly
intercuorfe with them.
LAW OF THE UNION.
thjrd congress of the
UNITED STATES,
-AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia,
in the Slate of Pennsylvania, on Monday
thefecond of December, one thousand
(even hundred and ninety-three.
An T^l f ° T ft °f the **'*" fifing on the
on age of sundry / r e nch vejfeis u hkh have taken
rrpjje Ikcputi oj the Umlcd Sutes.
\X7"HEKEAS the difaftr.liis situation of the
H ((un !™ 1 ' Cape Fj *" coi '> >" she irtanrt of
Hifpamola, compelled sundry veflds belong!,, £
1, ,'on °', r ;' e Frcnch R P-Wic, i„ g th ®
pr ,f l 1?';' Y ( ° take "=<>'6* within the
are Lhlh, a "' S '' a ' ,d " hcrc « "'=y
-eel,able by law tothe payment ol fo, e i»,. ton
-age, Which confident the ntc.-ifity of their
Therefu t re q ' 1 ' tab ' y r< ""' Ct * d tj thel » : ]
" ""fcd.hjlu Snalt and Hauf, ofß ct „, r „
'"""■J
£* ! ' Jhut tbe duties on the tonnage to
Which any ol the vell'els aforefaid ate, oT- may
JteuT? ablc ' withi " a,, - vl " " ie P«"• «<'
I "i d ' he r "" r arr hereby
p r™M»cv t ,* pifl , T, ldt tl , e m J
e , nwnerorenfigne,-, of every fuel, vellcl
fliall make p.oor to the prop r officer of hi
P"ri m Which iuch veffci in 'iy be that th* r-1
vilfcl was compelled to,leave the fa'd Tfla H
' " , H'W,»ndtotake refuge wi'i e
?""• b y r " ,u " o»"the calamity
Frederick Augustus Muhlenberg
Speaker of the House of
r , Representatives.
Jo h n Adam s, Vice-President of the
United States and President
a ,i, , of the Senate.
Approved March the 1
third, 1794. j
G a . Washington, President of the
United States.
Deposited among the Rolls in the OfEce
of the Secretary of State,
Edm. Randolph,
Secretary of State.
Foreign Intelligence
BRUSSELS, November 12,
. 7 c T fance Wh, ' ch has "cited
great aftomfhment here is the order, 2en
L g r rnment to . the states ' 'o^nifh
15,000 pioneers within 48 hours, and
2000 waggons, to repair to Valenciennes
/TT!? Which remonstrated" re'
ceived the flnfteft orders to fend the men
required witU 24 hours, under
military execution. Since that the pea
a7 flockmg f rom all
and night; they are to have 16 sols and 2
ofthe" 8 d bread PCr day from the time
mat departure they are ; ntended ™ e
make entrenchments between Valenciennes
andßavay and , n general in places and
army W The 3 ™ the ct ™bined
army. They are to remain ten days and
This 'kind' by an na™her
kind of press ha? excited confiderahlr
murrn, . ihab . "fid«We
[ pan(h of Lacken openly refufed to fend
the.r contingency. Bui eighty foldl™
were immediately difpatchedl infliat
ilta 7 exf cution, and the farmer Who mL
at the head of this reyolt ,
earned bound to Malines, to receive there
the reward of his difobed.ence "
I he Dutch are returning in whole com
pames every day, 120
S rS rl h L- Ch and Swiss pas.
{Ld tl,rou S h th » and immediately
ook polTeffion oa the canal of the lam
>ark which ieta <ttt every day for An
werp. These troojw are so happy to re
urn home, that they cannot conceal their
oy. This conduit, which form, a contrft
o that which they exhibited on their late
narch hither, has cxpofed' them to the
reproaches of the inhabitant*, who openlr
iccufe them of cowardice.
We were y etterda y aftonilhed by a very
■ngular event: A Republican GenerJ
irnved after four o'clock at the hotte of
•he miml cr. He wa. dressed in his un.-
Form and attended by an aid-dc-can>p of
the Pnn,-e de Cobourg. They immed,-
Ar t ,° hiS Roya! %hnef S ,he
Archduke Charles, and after a conference,
t -J C " er3i Wlth h ' u companion
returned to Mens. It was remarked that -
le lame evening the minuter feut courier*
toßerlin; and to General WW.der : No
thing has yet tranlpired refpedting the
.aufe of this strange and secret million.
It .a laid that the French officer wa *
the commandant of Manbeuge,
p° had e ""grated, and given great in.
formation to tile Prince de Cobourij ref
the enemy* Pia " S a " ack P ro je&ed by
CeT^lT f T Strartsur g h dreadful.
Genera Wurmfer in lour weeks has not
to «lv»nce a lingle Hep. On the
9th, all the members of the municipality
and of the commune, to the number of
70 persons, were guillotined. Among
these were the heads of the most fll uftn ?
ous families. Baron de Weiterfheim, de
Wangeat de Boulach, de Wumfe, de
Breftett, &c. who were all allied to the
family of General Wurmfer. The great
est ferment prevailed next morning after
his horrible execution, and a general mas'
acre was fxpetted betweeen the two par
ties. General Wu, mfer's slowness of L.
ration is alledged as the cause of these ex
ecutions. As soon as he arrived with hi*
victorious arr.iv at Haguena, a resolution
was privately formed at Strafburgh to de
then so weak that nothing wasfo be dread!
5cS r " Umber ° f those wc "
affeded was fupenor. The municipality,
be t C t °h mm T' I Frtnch
be t, the commandant ot the nation of the
national guards, the fix-nobility, all con
agreed ""r the °f Wunrnfer, were
AnfT •' W ° f epUt,cß wer e sent to the
Auftnan general to offer to give up the
town m the name of Louis XVII and to
the !.' 11 " 1 at ' va " cc w ' tH his a'rmy ln
the mght t, me ord tafce possession
■ ' j . General however, who per
haps had other liiftruftions refpeftinsr the
manner in which the town Juki
rendered,,hefitated, and promised to m ve
did not'th' 1 "' Cafe the de P«it» '
did not thinm proper to surrender in the
chief deputies, the secret was dLvered
th"e a T y 1 5,0 °° re P»hhcans arrived^
pofTeffion f anot . htrofe Val force to(!k
P Hellion of feme important posts at Sr.
iXdT' WWhi Ch,h the Pniffia "B were dif-
Alter tins the ftaff-officers in the
cty, the municipality and tC 6
TO drfatrf, „j a || [h „ ri tk.Xd
°, ' S , misfortune . that.important city
which forms one of the bulwarks of Fr.lZ'
er S n °and ! °all f th th . e COmbl ' ned Pow
ers, and all their operations which have
been so fuccefsful in Alsace, are rendered
no use, as the combined army is now
obliged to ast on the defenfive. It i
known that to lay fieo-e to , .
citadel of Stralburgh, an a, my of°« " "
Would Ur n » dnaim 7 ot 60,000
wouid be n-.-ceflary, and another of tW
like number to cover the liege.
All the troops that pal Ted lately
gone over to the enemf en
TIZTr , e^imates the g number of
fincethe commencement of the
that T t°°° men; Bnd "ffinned
" whole of hi. regiment.which is considered as one of tliebraveft
and moil faithful, had gone over to the
enemy on the 16th of October. AH these
iegiment« of hussars have sustained incre
dible loss, and the greater part of them
fcre reduced to 8 or 500 men.
LONDON, December 20.
Nothing can be more flattering than
the prefant state of our armaments againd
France.—Lord Howe's fleet is gone into
poit, so that a (ingle (hip of the enemy
cannot efcapc them—and the Earl of
Moira has taken a house in Gucrnfey, so
that although the transports with his
troops on board are returned to Poitf
mouth, he is ready, at a moment's warning,
to take advantage of any favorable circum
itances that may occur, to enable him to
carry into effect the object of his expedi
tion, unencumbered with troops or trans
ports.
\ efterday, the pillory was again erec
ted at Charing Cross, for the purpose of
pilloring Mr. John Frolt ; but after
waiting a considerable time, the constables
were informed, that in consequence of
his mc!i:pofition, the sentence would not
then be put in execution.
UNITED STATES.
FREDERICKSBURG, March 6.
Extract cf a Letter-from a gentleman in
Boonlborough (Kentucky) to his friend
in this town, dated Feb. 10.
" An expedition is now on foot against
New-Orleans, under the command of Gen.
Clanc, who has a French commission. The
people here are confident of success. I have
taken a part in this business and lhall return
that way to Virginia, (I hope) .with a canoe
load of south rn Giver. -
BALTIMORE, March 3.
A late Engl: !h Newspaper mentions, that
the pbjedt of the Ottoman Porte in fending
an ambalTadorto the British court, is to bring
about a peace between the combined pdwcrt
and France, on condition that the latter (hall
evacuate Nice and Savoy ; that the French
lhall renounce all ideas of conquest, or inter
ference with other Hates; and the colonial
iyftem being Incompatible with their princi
ples, that they lhall cede their East and Well
India polfclEons to Great Britain.
NEW-YORK, March 12,
While the people of the U. S. are
anxious to preserve their liberty at home,
they cannot be unconcerned at knowing
the hard fate of thofc of their countrymen,
who by being exposed to the severe and
perilous duties of the sea, are rendered at
the fame time obnoxious to, and many of
them are actually enduring the hard con
dition of Haves, to the most ferocious ene
mies to humanity.
Captain Lawrence of the Hull Packet,
was desirous of obtaining the best and most
authentic information, refpe&ing the con
dition of his unfortunate countrymen in
Algiers, obtained it at Cadiz, and now
refpectfully lays it before the American
people.—The Americans taken by the
Aigerines, have their heads close shaved,
nor arc they allowed to wear any kind of
covering on the head: they are entirely
stripped of their apparel, and a coarse dress
given instead of it. At night they are
confined in a dungeon, and at day-light
they are led in chains to their usual work,
which is generally rigging and fitting
ships ; some are sent as navigators and pi
lots on board the cruizers, and are oblig
ed, on pain ofpunifhment, to exert them
felve3 to the utmost of their abilities.
Their food is generally bread and water,
nor is the least difference made between
sick and well, officers and men, but all
treated equally ill.
It was reported at Cadiz, that there
were several European navigators lately
gone among them, particularly one Kelly,
who was tried in Dublin for piracy ; and
that they were determined to fpcure the
western ocean next spring. The Hull Pac
ket left Cadiz with an English fleet, under
convoy of a frigate and Ooop of war. A
few days after leaving that place, two fail
passed the fleet, fleering in for the Streights,
th* sloop of war gave chace and spoke
them ; and Captain Lawrence was inform
ed they were an Algerine cruizer, and an
American ship, her prize.
SUIP MEWS.
Mr. Foster, late Mate of the ftiip Fa
vorite of Alexandria, who came paflenger
in the brig Pearl, from St. Domingo, in
foims, That the ship was nearly loaded
at Port-au-prince with a cargo of 400
hhds. of Sugar and Coffee; that Santho
nax, the civil commissioner, having tho't
fit to alter the law refpedling the mode of
collecting the duties on produce exported,
[ demanded from the Captain of the Favo
rite, payment of duties under the new re
gulations, altho they had been previous
ly laid under the law, which then exifl
ed j and on the Captains' demurring, im
mediately ordered the (hip to be unload
ed, and held a couit upon her; the Judg
es of which were composed of three peo.
pie of colour, who, in the course of a
few minutes, decided the condemnation
of the (hip and cargo, which was valued
at 30,000!. without allowing the Captain
to appeaY in the court in her defence.
Mr. Poller a!fo informs, that the only
law exiting at the place, is the will of
Santhonax, who is acting in the most ty
rannical manner, and has treated the A
inericans exceedingly ill. He obliges them
to fell what part of their cargo he pleads,
to himfelf, at his own price, and pays
them v. ith delegations or di'afts, on Mr.
Genet, which will never be honored. He
alio takes from them their thip stores, and
obliges them to purchase their fubfiltence
at the market, at exorbitant rates
Most of the white people arc iijiprifontd,
and the blacks have completely the con
troul. ' . .
Mr. Foftcr further mentions—the Bri.
tifh had colle&ed all their forces at the
Mole, and had gone on ail expedition- a-,
gainst Port-au-Prince, which he appre
hends, must by this time have fallen.
BOSTON, March 5.
New-York—The treasury of New-
York, on the Ift of the present year, had
a balance in its favor, in salh, of 59,828
pounds. In the expenditures of the last
year, arc, the following:—For improving
and making roads, 21,850] To the
trustees of Columbia College 9501. To
the New-York hospital 5001. Indian pen
sions 6401 To the Regents of the Uni
versity 15001 For inland lock navigation
lo,oool.—and to private individuals, to
afiilt them in piofecuting various manu
facture« ; loans to the amount of 60001.
Appropriations worthy an enlightened and
Patriotic Legislature 1 Besides the above
balance in cadi, the state of New-York
owns 2,121,462 dollars in the funds of the
United States.
New-Hampshire —At the clofeafthe
last year, the calh, bonds, See. bank (lock,
and flock in the funds of the United
States, in the Treasury of New-Hamplhire,
amounted to 309,691 dollars. The out
standing state notes, and new emiflion mo
ney, with the other debts of that state,
amount to 208,623 dollars. Balance in
favor of the state of 101,068 dollars.
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 14.
Accounts received from Tortola at St.
Croix, mention the arrival there of a veflH
from Europe, which parted with the Jamaica
fleet, the captain of which fays, that the if-
Jand of Martinique was seen to be in flames.
1 hat he spoke an Englifti frigate off that
place, and was informed that the Britift were
in pofieflio/i of the island, except Fort Re
public—that Admiral Jervis, and Sir Char
lcs Grey had iflued a proclamation offering
protection to the well disposed inhabitants of
that unfortunate country, at the fame time
threatening such of the whites, as were found
in arms, to be sent away as prisoners of war
—the coloured people, to be sent to Africa,
and the negroes to fufler instant death.
At a numerous meeting of the merchants
and traders of this City, on Tuesday
the I ith instant, at the Harp and
Crown Inn, in Third Street, in pursu
ance of an advertisement for that pur
pose.
Stephen GirarJ, Esq. in the Chair.
The following resolutions were proposed
and unanimously adopted.
Resolved, As the sense of this meeting,
that the carrying trade of the United
States, and the proper defenee of its' na
vigation, are objects of primary import
ance to the prolperity, dignity, and hap
piness of America.
Resolved, That discriminations of ton
nage duties between the (hips of nations
having commercial treaties, and being in
habits of friendly intercorfe with the U
nited States, and such as belong to nati
ons oppressing and assuming to di&ate to
America, are reasonable and just ; in or.
der to encourage arts of generality and
friendihip towards the union, and to (how
a proper sense of displeasure at a contrary
principle.
Resolved, That the citizens of Ameri
ca, owners of (hips or cargoes, concerned
ill lawful trade on the high seas, and fail
ing under the sea letters of the President,
and proper clearances of the cultom hous
es, have a right to be reimbursed the los
ses they may sustain, from any vexations
or spoliations committed by any power
whatever, in violation of the law of nati
ous.
Refulved, That additional imports on
the vefl'els, goods, wares, and merchan
dize, of any nation so offending, intro
duced into the United States, will be a
proper fund, out of which to reimburse
such lofies, and will tend more than any
thing we know of to difcountenancc and
discourage such paa&ices in future,
On motion,
Resolved, That the foregoing resoluti
ons be published.
Refolvcd, That this meeting be adjourn
ed to meet at the State House, on Tues
day flfcxt, at j o'clock, P. M. and that
the citizens in general, be invited to at
tend.
Rcfolved, That the thanks of this
meeting be presented to the chairman,
not only for his prcfent services, but for,
and 111 grateful remembrance of his dan
gerous and meritorious services rendered
to the citizens on a late melancholy occa
sion.
From the minutes.
ROBERT M'KEAN, Secretary.
March 11.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, March 13.
A number of Ameiican Captains lately
lent a petition from Carthagena to the
Spanish Court, for convoy.
The following aofwer to which, manifeftj
that we have no room to depend on the
Dons foi the protedlion of our (hips*
St. Lorenzo, Dec. 6, 1793.
" I" fight of the memorial that your
Excellency lias remitted me in your letter,
No. 115 1, from the American Captains,
Henry Stephens, James Neil, and Ebe
nezer RofTeter, in solicitude for a convoy
of a {hip of war for their refpedive vefTels,
from thence to Cadiz to protect them
against the Algerine, cruizers ; his Ma
jesty has declared that there is no room
for this pretension, on account of its not
being a condition stipulated : and I advise
your, Excellency thereof, by his Majelly's
orders, that you may inform said Captains
of the fame. God preserve your Excel
lency many years.
Miguel Gallon,
PROVIDENCE, March 6.
A gentleman from Boston informs—
That a vessel is arrived there from Bermu
da, and brings information, that instruc
tions were received at that place from the
Britilh court, dire&ing that no Amen
can vessel fliould in future be detained on
account of having French property on
board, any longer than was necessary to
unload the fame—and that no American
vessel (hould on ony account be molested.
In consequence the vessel which brings the
intelligence was immediately discharged,
and the Captain had awarded him £300
sterling, for detention. We further learn,
that a vessel in similar circumstances had
been discharged at Jamaica, and had arri
ved at Salem.
A correfpondcnt remarks, that the
Merchants have but little encouragement
to build (hips, fit, and fend them to sea,
and punSually pay the duties imposed on
the goods they bring home, while Congress
rcfufe, or neglect to protetl their proper
ty, by fitting a fleet for that purpose.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
arrived
Brig Diana, Fnrrefter, CharleHon 12 days,
Schooner Elizabeth, Phillips, Boston 90.
— Betsey, NVoodworth, Norfolk 4
j AKxandei, Norris, Martinique.
Sloop Apollo, Colhoun, Rhode Island.
Capt. Dakins of the Active, left at the Ha
vamia, the Sliip« Aleicaiider, Pre
fidrnt, Conyngham, and the Mercnam, Cant
Frairi?; Brigs, Chance, Capt. Week*,and Pat.
ty Capt. Wareham, Hnce loft, on the Coin,
niartaers, and th£ Fugafe Inconft.nt, ol
gun?, with J (ail of British merchantmen}
troni Jamaica, homeward bound.
Capt. Wed in ai) ot the Brig Abigail, arrived
at New Cadi?, in 38 Javs f 0.11 Po. t au Pui*
left there SchoMci De'ig!ir,to in I3day<
a-the Sallv Capt. Gi afr«>ii cf Sple.n, and
the Schoor Capt. Webb ot N'orlolk, to
fail two d.vs kfhrr.
Yeftcrday Evening, arrived at Fort-
Mifflm, the fliip Mary, Capt. Stevens, io
49 days from Carthagena—he informs,
that he left there, the (hip Fricndlhip,
Capt. Smith of Baltimore.
Capt. Stephens fulled in company with
| the brig Mary Ann, RofTeter of New-
York, udder convoy of a Portuguese Fri
gate of 44 gung, as f ar as Gibraltar. He
left at Gibraltar, about J fail of Ameri
cans—among whom are the following:
Ships Mary, Buller, New-York j Fa
vonte, Barr, of ditto ; and Commerce,
-Loring, of Boftoti. Brigs Ann & Su
, I " ne9 > N - York ; Mary Ann, Rolet
ter of ditto; Dolphin, Dalton, Peterf
oerg. Sloops Sally, Chapman, Bbfton ;
■Diana, Hall, of ditto. Which were to
fail in a (hort time, homeward.
About the ift March, spoke the sloop
> belonging to Noith-Caroli
na, bound to St. Bartholomews, 14 days
out. 4 th. Spoke the fnuw £!iz;.b, th, of
Knode-Ifland, from the Isle of France,
79 days out—bound home.
The day before Capt. Stephens failed,
the Bntirti fleet under Lord Hood, pas
ted Carthagena, bound for Corsica.
The Spanish fleet had arrived at Car
thagena—and the Algerines were prepar
ing with great diligence for an expedi
tion.
Mr. Madison's refoluttons were again
under consideration this day—a long de
bate, but no decision. The house ad
journed till! Monday.
Several Correfpondenrs (hill be at.
tended to To morrow.
PRICE of STOCKS.
6 per cents, 16/9
3 ditto, g/5
Deferred, 10/
U. S. Bank, 5 per ce „t. adv.
(South Carolina.)
TO fail on Tuefdaythe 18th inft. has good
accommodations forpaflengers. For freight
or pairage, apply to the Master on board at
Walnut street wharf, or to
March 14,
American Brig
R I T O N,
BIfRTIiEN 700 barrels, with her tackle
and apparel as (he came from sea, She is a
flaunch veflel, not two years old, and may be
put to sea immediately. For terms apply
to
" VALDEZ."
Arch Street wharf,
Who have far fa/e,
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
a quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and a few
casks Timothy Seed—also
Pig and Bar Iron, and Iron cast
ings, in any form executed on the
shortest notice.
March 14,
For Bojlon,
DOLPHIN,
William Nickells, Matter:
WILL Sail in about eight days; for freight
or paiftge apply to toe Captain on board ac
Hodge's Wluif, bctwen Arch md Ka.r-
S reet< f or
RUM FORD JBIJAII DAWS.
3d Moll. 14, ! 794. (low.
Loft at rhe Theatre,
Last Wednesday evening,
A Miniature Pidiire
Of a Gentleman, set m gold. Whoever v
will deliver the fame at No. i xi. Spruce ftrcet
(hall receive a generous reward,
March 14. 41
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
A COMIC OPERA—Called
ROBIN HOOD,
Or SHERWOOD FOREST.
To which will be aded—A CcmtJy,called
The LIAR.
For Charlejion,
Andrew Gwik, Majler.
GEORGE MEADE.
d3t.
GARDINER & OLDEN,
March 14,
Will be perfoi med,
diotPhiladelphia, March i, i7W
JUST PUBLISHED,
y MATHEW CAREY,
Nt. 118, Marlut Jlrcet,
IHE first volume of a new
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography •
OX. A
Geographical, Kifiorical, ana
Commercial Grammar;
And prefti't state ol'the (everal
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAJ N I MC,
I. Th* figures, motions, and diftancet of
the planets, according to the Newtonian fyf
tein and the latest observations.
1 A genera) view of the earth, confidcred
as a p ; with leveral ufeful geographical
definitions and problems.
3 .The grand divisions of the globe into
land and water, continents and islands.
4. The situation and extent bt empires,
kingdoms, dates, provinces and colonies
j. Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
prodigious. metals, minerals, natural curi
oftrie*, Teas, rivers,bays,capes, promontories,
atid lakes.
6. The birds and beasts peculiar to each
country.
7. Qb r ervations on, the changes that have
been anv where observed upon the face of na
ture since the mod ear[y periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations ; their
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
nue. raxes, naval and military flrength.
9. I'lie genius, manners, cuftomsj and ha
b'r< of *he people.
10. Thjeir language, learninjj,arts,ftiences,
roa*nifa<shires, 3rd commerce.
it. 1-he chief cities, ftru&ures, ruins, and
artificial curiosities.
j 2. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
6jftaneers ofpriuc : p.il places n oni Philadelphia
To which are added-
t. A Geoor xphical Index, with the names
*nd places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Tablk of the Coins of all nations, and
their value in dollars and cents.
3» A Chronologic a 4. T able of remarkable
events, from the creation to the present time.
' By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Astronomical Part correaed by
D Rittenhouse.
To which hive been added,
The late Discoveries ofiO". Herschell,
and othe r eminent Astronomers.
The FIRST ATVIERICAN EDITION,
Corrcfted, Impioved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firft volume contains twenty-ore Maps
»*nd Charts, be.'ides two Astronomical Plates,
V 't. Map of the world. 2. C.l Art of the world,
Europe. 4. Alia. J. Africa. 6. South-
America. 7. Cook's difcovenes. 8. Coun
tries round tlx north Pole. 9- Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway. 10. Seven I'nited Pro
vinces. it Austrian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. 13. Seat of war
in France. i - France divided intodepait
ments. 15- Switzerland. 16. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardi-ia. 17. Spain and PoitugaL
18. Turkey in Europe and.Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 20 Weft-Indies. 2i. Vermont. 22. Ar
millary fpheve. 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
the pr. ft, will lie given the following Maps :
t. Rufila in Eu'ope and Alia.
2. Scotland.
3- England and Wales.
4. Poland. „
5. China.
6. Hindoftan.
j. United States.
g. Britiih America.
q. S'ate of New-Hampshire.
,0. State of Maflachufetts.
ji. State of Conne&icut.
,2* State of Rhode Island.
,3 State of New-York.
,4- State of New-Jersey.
, 5. State of Pennsylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
20. State of North.Carolina.
21. TenneflTee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia.
TERMS.
j. This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (56 cents for boards)
3. They may receive the fucreeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finifhed, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The fubfeription wi I l»e raised on the firft
day of June i 794, to fourteen dollars, ex
ecutive of binding.
Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
fixfeen dollars, and the price of binding.
6. The names of the fublcribcs will be pub
lished as patrons of American literature,
arts, and sciences.
It it wholly unnecertary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American reader*, that this edi
tion pofljeflfes over every imported edition of
any system of Geography extant. The addi
tiort of maps of the several date-, procured at
a very great expense, and from the belt ma
terials that are attainable, speaks such full
conviffcion on this fubjeft, that it would be
difrefpeft to the reader's understand ng to
suppose it requisite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
similar work have fnch maps beenever intro
duced.
The emendation and additions wkich are
made in this work,are innumerable,and occur
in every page. The public are referred to
the preface for a flight iketch of a few;
theni,
The publifhcr takes th- present oppot tu
nity of returning his most fmbere thanks to
those refpe&able charaftei s who have favored
him with documents for improving the maps
of several of the dates. He requests a conti
nuance of their kindness ; and hopes that luth
public spirited citizens, as are pofleffed of si
mitar documents, will tavor him with their
afliftance in perfecting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he has been favored, has excited
in his breast ihe warmed sentiments of grati
tude—(entiments which time will not efface.
He pledges himfelf to the citizens of the
United States, to spare neither pains nor ex
penfe to render the prcfent edition ofGu'hrie s
Geography deserving of their pa
tronage. waftt
NORRIS-COURT,
Bickof the New L livaiv, between Cliefout
aod Walnut Streets
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the buftnefs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-lb utter s,ddfti iu tlie nioft
elegant manner, and with dilpatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and doty attended to.
December 30,
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR. SALE BY
M. Carey, No. 118 ,High-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full'of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the 'world.
THIS little book »s * ruien in a stile altogether
novel, and f* adapted to ill capacities, as
w«»ll as to all clafl" s of oeople, merchijVS njr
chanics and farmers* Such a reputation has this
wo* k acquired, that it has palled 'h-o three im
preflions in the eadern dates, and many houle
holders deem it so ufelul as to purchase a eooy
for every adult in the»< families.- 1 - IPk 10 2s.
February 4.
Jufl Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Petersburg in Ruflia
And now landing at South-street Wlurf> viz;
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEII ING,
RAVEN'. DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG'« BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE EY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 21, Wrv
di\V3Uv t :
March 4,1794'
War Department.
January 3oth 1794.
INFORMATION is tit > iv, n the
m inary tnv,ilidsof the United S(aies,that th
fums to which thev ireeKttled lot fix months
of the'r annual pension, from the fonuh day ot
September 1793, and which will b. com. due
"n he sth d<yof March 1794, will be paid on
the (aid day by the Commiffiotieil of ihe Loans
within the flutes relprdtivcly, unrierthe ulualre-
u'at ions,
Applications of executors and admin ftraiois
inuik be accompanied with legal evidence ol
their rcfpc&ive offices, and aifo of the time the
invalids died, whofc pension thev may claim.
By command of the Prfidint
of the United States,
Scctctary oj War.
fcy The printer! in (he refpeflivc ftatei are
rrquefted ro publish the above in their newfpa
peri for the space of two months.
januaiy 30.
Loft at the Theatre,
IN Chrfnut Street, a handsome Shawl, c«m
monly called Camels Hair ; worked with co
lours. Whoever will return it to the Primer,
(hall receceive a handsome reward.
March ts, 1794. 3 r -
AVIS.
LE habitant infortunes de la Colonic Franjaife
de St. Domingue qui dans I'inrendie du
Cap font venus chercher un afile dans lcs Etats
Unu foot in formes que la Republique leur ac
cord* un palTage pour France. lis font Invites
cn consequence a fe piefenter a cet effet d'ici a
huit jours chez les Consuls Sc agens de la Re
publiquedant let differcnts Ports des Etats Urns.
A Phi ladiiphii. lc 10 Ventos— l'anad de
la Republiquc Franfaife une & indivisible.
(.8 Fevrier, 1794. vieuxjlilc)
Le Miniftre Pleni potentiate dcla Rtpubhquc
Franpaife.
JH. FAUCHET.
The tdHo's of netufpaperi in l *>c United Statu are
reqvcjlcd to insert tht above notice in their paper. 8
(£j- Ttii Gazette JhaU be enlarged, at it
receives encouragement —The Subfcriplion
encreafet daily—Advertising Favori are
folicited —Tbefe conjtitute an ejftnhal Item
n diminijhing the Debit Jide of the Account.
JuJ} Imported,
FroM London, Dublin, and Glasgow,
And now opening lor Tale,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-fireet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION of BOOKS,-
Among which are the following:
\TEW Annual Regiiter for 1792
European Magazine for the firft »*
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of rhe Manchelter society, 3
Priestly on matter and Ipirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirt of Guy Wi
Memty,a collection of essays
Varieof Pruflia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintoih
Ruflell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extra&s, fnperbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Sangnier and Briflbn's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflb's Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's. tranllation of Buffon
Berwick's hiftoiy of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
.Sketches of the Hindoos
Key ro polite literature.
Imlav's dtfcription ol Kentucky
Pre lent state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on inafonry
Lavater on abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnfoo
Necker on executive power
Kifies of Secundus
Gallery of port'aits
Volnev's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's, travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
\dair'sTiiftory of American Ind.ans #
feeningron on materialism and imma'eriahfm
Be~chold'« ad rice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon'iiife of Voltaire
He Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
G ozier's description <>f China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on pol ticaljuftice
Gazefferr of France, 3 vols.
Helvetic* on man
Kaimes's fketchcs of the history of man
Liberal opinion*, or the hiftqryoi Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell tamily
Playhmife di&ionary
fleveries ofSolitude
Smith's theory of moral (entiroettts
Stackhouf'-'s history of the bible
Watibn's life of Philip lid. &: Hid.
Wouder.s of nature, and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
Wali 3 on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's tvavvls into Denmark,Ru(fia,Poland,&rc.
Cox's 'ravels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females ,
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid-
wifery
Manning'- practice of phytic
Cleghorn's fcliteafes of Minorca
In ie-> or. the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the aftlima
Robertfon's treatifc oh fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Halter's physiology
Spalanzane's —
London pra&ice of phytic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
H. KNOX,
dam
By MATHFW CAREY, No. üB,
Market-Street,
An Eflay. on Slavery
Designed to exhibit it) » new point o( view,
its effr&s on month, indujlry, and the peace of
ociety. Some facts and calculation® are offered
to prove the labor of freemen to be much more
produdive than that ot Jlaves ; that coudmr* are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion «; the
laboring people enjoy the frUit» of their own
labor ; and hence the n<c((Taiy conclusion, that
slavery is impolitic as well »s uijnJ.
Prick 25 Genu.
February 13.
FOR SALE,
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs hi* friends and
the public, That (com the encouraftemeot
he haa received, from several refpeftable Gentle
men, he is induced once more, toeirtbatk in the
PAPER LINE— aod would offer his fe>vices to
all tbofc Geotiemrn, who can place confidence
,n him ; and tu assures thofc who employ him,
that thrir confidence (hall not he misplaced "
but it fcall be his tonftant endeavor, to pay the
ftn6c(t attention lotheiv best inlerett, in all sc.
gociations whatever. He has taken ihe Chamber,
in State-Strut, over Mr. David Town/end, Watch
Makei's Shop.■•— Where PUBLIC SfcCURI*
TltS, of all kmds, are bought and fold; and
wheie Commiflion Bufiuefs of all kinds, will be
(ranta&ed on reasonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be conftaotly exposed torfale,on
commiflion. *
%• Ca(h paid for Salem, Providence, and
Porifmouih BILLS.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, pr
NtW'Yorks has any Bvjinefs to tranfad at Uo/leu,
in Paper Negoctationt, hi will be to be em
ployed on commijfion. . .
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794. uiw&ftf
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON the 31ft of laA month, the fubfrnb r xd
drrffcJ a letter to M flTr*. Thomas Pear/all
£2 Son, mnchant# in and mclofcd
1 herein a bank Qote, No. 445, for twenty dol.
lars ; one ditto, No. »«». 101 thirty dollars;
and one ditto, No. 3,866, for twmy dollars.
—He also addressed a letter to Mr. Gilbert
SaltonJlaU, merchant in New-York, inc'ofiug a
batik bill, No. 148, for fi!:y dollars, indoied
on the back thereof in iheO words—*' Pas the
wit bin to M>. Gilbert SaltonJlaU —tbtn. hunting*
ton."—He also ad.'.rclTai a lettei toMtfffS. White
& War delt % merchanta in New-Yotk, and indo
fed a bank bill for ten dollars, an" a draft in fa
vor of fa>d White & WarJelf, which letters were
put in the Pott-Office on fatd 31ft January, to
be forwarded to New-Yoik : But by letters re
ceived from the Gentlemen to whom they w re
severally addressed, the money was robbed
ftom each letter before delivery.
The Public are rcqiuflrd to endeavor a dt*
t eft ion of the V llains who com mined the above
robberv. The bill indorsed, I think was »Y> rk
bank bill, and some otheis, one or more was
of the Umied States bank, remitted at Philadel
phia. Any person difcovrring the Thief, and
returning tl»e Money, (h?!l be entitled to fifty
dollars reward.
EBEN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, 14th F' b. 1794- 3 W S ; ,iw
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from actual survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS P«a« will be engraved on a plate 26
inches square ; and it will contain an ex
ad defenption of all the (quares, ftrrets and
alleys in the City and Liberties. The Creation
of the several public bnr'.dingi, foeh as the State*
House, City-Hall, Seat of Congress, Churches,
Meeting-Houles, Hospital, Library and Semina
ries of Learning—of the several Banks, and oi
the Federal and State Offices, will be afccrcaiaed'.
The parts which are built on will he diftingufh
ed from those that are not. The courses of the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended to conned the
naVigat ion of those two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a
virw of the (hipping in the harbor, and an ele*
vation of Congress.-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In short, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and d<(irable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power :
and it (hall be compleated with the greatest
poflible difoatch, as soon as the generons encou
ragement of fubfcnbeis (hall insure to the author
such a sum as will be fuHkicnt to defray ex
pencrs.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
ihe Subfcribert names, and information con
cerning (he police, population and present state
of the city.
The price to fobfcrtbrra will be Two Dollars
and due third, to be paid at the time of deliver,
ing the Plans.
Subscriptions will be gratefully received at
the principal Booksellers iu this citv—and the
original Dr»ft may be seen at B. Davie.*',
No, 68, Mtikr t-ftrret, at any tifne until it (hall
be put in»o the hands of the Engraver,
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern., and
of the Merchant't Coffee-Houft of this
City :—
RtSfECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public m general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippta-Strut, be
tween Thjrd and Fourth.Streeis, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly improved, and is now
\ery commodious ; where he has turnifhed hinj
felt with the best of LIQUORS, and will fur-,
nifti a/TABLE for Parties, with the best provi
sions the Markets a (Turd, at any hour, on the
(horteft notice. From his long experience iiv
this line of buftnefs, he flatters himlelf be shall
be able to fjivc iatisfa&ion to all who may pleafc
to favor hi in with their company.
Philadelphia, January >9,1794.
n PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
mSrthtf