E
VENING ADVERT
[No. 20 of Vol. V.]
PRICE CURRENT. Dlh. a,. DiU.Ct,.
per quantity. —Dollars too Cents each Oil, Ditto pr cafe 5 4C
Sweet, best, in flafks,pr.box 10
_ Ditto ba'kets, 12 Lotties 6
PHILADELPHIA, Jan. 4, 1794. Spermaceti pr. gall. 9 4 8
Tram per barrel 10 51
ADUs.Cti. Dlls.Cti. Whaie 25 33
NCIIORS pr.lb. t 7 10 p orter p r ca {] C(
Allum, English, pr.cwt. 4 33 London, pr.doz.
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 11 American ditto bot.incl. 1 81
Ames, pot, per ton, *20 pi tch> pr . bbl. \73 2
Pearl, »34 1 4° 7 Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 15
Arrack pr. gall. 1 33 1 J o Lower county 12
Brandy, common, i°o *20 Carolina 10
Comae *3° *4° p ea s, Albany pr. bulhel \
Braziletto,pr. to 4. So Pepper, or. lb. 42
Bricks, pr. M. 4 7 Pi men to 19
Bread, (hip, pr. cwt. 2 "7 n . r , n .
Ditto, pilot 5 bcft ' P r - kc « * 7
Ditto, finall water, per keg 36 4° * IUo P r, i? r 333
Beer, Am* rican, in bottles, P'"° P r ' box 333
pr.doz. bottles included. 1 74 P r - Cwt - 3"
Ditto pr. barrel, 6 Rolin pr. barrel 178
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, so Ruin Jamaica,pr.gallem .>6
New Engl,nd 10 14 w" li j Ua j * Sfi
Oak .4 '6 Windward 86
Merchantable pine 20 24 Barbados
Sap, do. ,o 67 —Country, N.E. 60
Mahogany, perfoot 10 Salt petre, pr. cwt. 14 33
The aboveare the (hallop prices, Saflafras pr. ton 6 8
tor the yard price, add 1 dol- ' Shot ditto 140 141
lar 33 cents per 1000. Steel, German pr.lb. 9
Brimilone in rolls, pr.cwt. 2 Englilh,blifter.d, p<. to
Beef, Bolton, per .o » Amenc.mpr, ton 1.3 33
— Co".ur/d,to 9 ,0 Z^^r:^ ,agSOt 4*
— Freft per cw.. 333 467 J pcr
—In kegs 15 18 W h ' l , c 8
Candles, Sperm, pr.lb. 47 aftl le 11
W Ji ' „ 16 Surch 7
Myrtle Wax l 3 Snuff pr. doz. hot 4 56«
Mould, tallow l 6 Spermaceti, refined, pr.lb. 48
Dipped 14 Sailcloth,Englifh,No.l.pr. yard,
Cheese, Englifii, pr. ib. 25 Bolton, No. I. ditto 36
Conntry to 12 No. 11. 35
Chocolate ' >6 18 Sugar Lump, pr.lb 21
Cinnamon 2 40 2 67 I.jaf, single refined 32
Cloves 1 33 ——Ditto, double do. 33
Cocoa pr. cwt. 10 11 Havannah, white 12 14
Coffee pr. lb. '6 Ditto, brown, 10 11
Coal pr. bnrtrrl 24 33 Muscovado, pr. cwt 9 js
Copperas pr.cwt. i 67 Spirits Turpentine pr.gallon S7
Cordage, Amnion, ptrewt. 9 10 Salt, Allum pr. bulhel
Cotton pr. It). 27 3? Liverpool 100
Cutrants la Cad,z
Duck,Ruflia, pr. piece 14 t8 Lisbon oc
Ravens 11 Shipbuild. W. O. frames p.ton, 20
Dutch fail duck, *8 20 Ditto Live Oak, 22
Feathers pr.lb. 5 o Ditto red cedar, per foot 37 45
Fiax ditto «• 12 Shingles, 18 inch, per 333 367
Flaxfeed pr. bulh. 8° 90 Ditto 2 feet, CSO 6
Flour, Superfine pr.barrel 6 1 2 Ditto 3 feet, drellcd, 13 15
Common, 57» Sla »«. P| P<- P'- >°°° 3*
Bur middlings, best j White Oak hoglhead, 2033
—Meal, Indian 2 67 Red Oak do. 19 s o
ditto Rye, 3 at 33
Ship-duff pr. cwt. 1 40 t67 —Barrel 16
Fustic pr. ton, 2° —-heading 25 33
. cc Skins, Otter, belt pr. piece 4 67
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 4 66 _. Minkl 40
Do- pr. gall. 9° Fox, grey 40 80
Glue, pr.cwt. 20 2133 Ditto red 120
Ginger, white race, per lb. 12 Martins 24
Ditto, common 8 Filhers 01 67
Ditto,ground pr.lb. 10 Bears 3
Ginseng, 20 24 R a coons 60 j
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.calk, 373 4 Mulk-rats 11 20 1
Ditto, fine glazed 4 Beaver, pr. Ib. 67 .33 ,
Grain, Wheat pr. bulh too 120 Decl ,r„ ha ,, 20 30
Rve 70 t '
Oats 35 Tar,N.Jerfey, 2 4 gal.p. bbl. i
Indian corn 6° 67 Carolina, 32 gall. 2
Barlev » 1 20 Turpentine pr. bbl. 2
- Best shelled pr. lb. 7 Tobacco, j. River, best toolb. 4 33
——Buckwheat, per bu(h. 4c ——— inferior 3 33
.... c ~ ' old 4 *>7
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 160 150 Rappahannock 333
American, pr.lb 4 5 Coloured Maryland, 533 8
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 Dark, 2 40
Hides, raw pr.lb. 9 l.ong-leaf 240
S Eaftern-ftiore 1 2 ?3
Hogshead hoops, pr. . . 15 Carolina , new 27 3
Indigo, French per lb. 1 67 old, 3 33
—Carolina 1 J 80 Tea, Hyson pr. lb. 93 1 28
Irons, lad pr. ton, »33 33 Hyson (kin, 53 60
Iron, Castings pr. cwt. 3 4 Souchong, 50 93
Bar pr. ton, 82 66 Congo, 43 50
Pig 25 Bohea, 33 36
Sheet 173 33 Tallow, refined, per lb. 9
Nail rods 100 33 Tin pr. box, *3 33 l 3 67
Junk, pr. cwt. 4 5 Verdigreafe pr. lb. 60
Lard, hogs pr. lb. »5 Vermillion, do. 133 t67
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 5 33 567 Varnish, per gallon 33 37
in bars 7 Wax, Beet pr.lb. 25 27
white JO 10 67 Whale-booe,long pr.lb. " 13 30
rc( * 640 6 6 \\rine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 176 226
Leather, foal, pr. lb. »7 20 Lilbon 120 126
Lignum vitae pr. ton, 7 Teneriffe,pr. gallon 63
Logwood 3° Fayal 52
Mace pr.lb. 9 Port pr. pipe 113 33
Mackarel, belt pr.bbl. 9 Dittoinbottles.pr.doz. 4
second quality 4 Claret 4 6
Madder, best pr. lb. 16 so Sherry pr.gall. 90 1 so
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, •- 33 207 Malaga 77 80
Mast spars ditto 33 COURSE OF EXCHJNC F.
MolalTes pr.gall. 33 J'_ On London, at 30 days, per £ .100 fieri. 466 $1
Mustard per. lb. 7 at 60 days 463 §
Hour, in bottles, pr.doz. I*o at 90 oays 461 'y
Nails, BJ. xod. izd. and 7od. pi .lb. 10 Amftcrdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, 42
Nutmegs pr. lb. - » 90 da'y«, 4c
Oil, I.infced, pr. gal! r Government bills, diawn at 10 days
——'Olive • 7 light, at 4ac per guilder.
f
©itfdfr «f t'li- Hfaf.es
AND
Saturday, January 4, 1794.
0 B S E R V AT lON S
ON THE
RIVER POTOMACK,
The Country and the
CITY OF WASHINGTON.
(Concluded from our lajl.)
The fur and peltry trade of the Great
Lakes may be brought to the city of Wash
ington, through the channel of the Poto
mack, four hundred miles nearer than to
any cthei (hipping-port to which it has
been carried heretofore.
Mr. JefFerfon, in his notes on Virginia,
mentions this fubjeft in the following
words:—" The Potomack offers itfelf
under the following circumstances, for the
trade of the lakes, and the waters well
ward of Lake Erie. When it (hall have
entered that lake, it must coafl: along its
southern (hore, on account of the number
and excellence of its harbors ; the north
ern, though (horteft, having few harbors,
and those unfafe.—Having reached Caya
hoga, to proceed on to New-York, it will
have eight hundred and twenty five miles,
and five portages : Whereas it has but
four fiundred and tiventy-five mile 6 to
Alexandria, its emporium on the Poto
mack, if it turns into Cayahoga, and pas
ses through that, Big Beaver, Ohio, Yo
hogany,(on Monongahela and Cheat,) and
the Potomack ; and there are but two
portages; the firft of which, (from Caya
hoga to Big Beaver) may be removed by
uniting the sources of these waters, which
are lakes in the neighborhood of each
other, and in a champain country. —The
other from the waters of the Ohio to the
Potomack, will be from fifteen to forty
miles, according to the trouble that (hail
be taken to approach the two navigations.
—For the trade of the Ohio, or that which
(hall come into it from its own waters, or
from the Mifiifippi, it is nearer through the
Potomack to Alexandria, than to New-
York, by five hundred and eighty miles,
and is interrupted by one portage only.
There is another circumstance of differ
ence.—The lakes themfelve6 never freeze;
but the communications between them
freeze, and the Hudson's river itfelf is (hut
up by ice three months in the year; where
as the channel of the Chefepeak leads direct
ly to a warm climate, the southern parts
of it rarely freezes at all, and whenever
the northern do, it is so near the sources
of the rivers, that the frequent floods to
which they are liable, break the ice up
immediately, so that vefTels may pass
through the winter, fubjeft only to acci
dental and short delays."
In addition to the foregoing remarks,
it may only be neceflary to fay, that there
is not a river in America capable of being
rendered more secure from an attack by
water than the Potomack. Its banks
are every where high and bold, with the
channel often not more than two hundred
yards from the (lioie. Digg's-Point, about
ten miles below the city of Walhington, is
remarkably well calculated for a battery ;
as all veflfels coming up the river must pre
sent their bows to that poin, for the dis
tance of three miles; and after palling,
their sterns are equally exposed for about
the fame distance; the middle of the chan
nel there is not more than two hundred
yards from the point.
It may not be amiss to subjoin the fol
lowing extracts from the laws of Maiy
land; and the terms and conditions for
regulating the materials and manner of the
buildings and improvements on the lots in
the city of Washington.
Extract from the ast of the General As
sembly of Maryland, entitled, " An ast
for opening and extending the navigation
of the river Potowmack, in which the
(hares are made real estate."
" Be it enacted, That foreigners shall
be and are hereby enabled to fubferibe for
and hold {hares in the Potowmack Com
pany."
Extract from an ast of the General As
sembly of Maryland, entitled, " An ast
E
I S
[Whole No. [78.]
concerning the territory of Columbia and
the city of Washington."
" Be it ena&ed, That any foreigner
may, by cieed or will, hereafter to be
made, take and hold lands within that
part of the laid territory which lies with
in this state, in the fame manner as if he
was a citizen of this state ; and the fame
lands may be conveyed by him, and trans
mitted to, and be inherited by his heirs or
relations, as if he and they were citizeus
of this Hate ; Provided, that no foreign
er (hall, in virtue hereof, be entitled to
any further or other privilege of a citi
zen."
Term 9 and conditions declared by the
President of the United States, for regu
lating the materials and manner of the
buildings and improvements on the lots in
the city of Washington.
1 ft. " That the outer and party-walls
of all houses within the said city (hall be
built of brick or done."
2d. " That all buildings on the streets
(hall be parallel thereto, and may be ad
vanced to the line of the itreet, or with
drawn therefrom, at the plcafure of the
improver ; but where any such building is
about to be erected, neither the founda
tion nor party-walls (hall be begun without
firft applying to the person or persons ap
pointed by the CommilTioners to superin
tend the buildings within the city, who
will afterwards ascertain the lines of the
walls to correspond with theferegulations.
3d. " The wall of no house to be high
er than forty feet to the roof in any part
of the city, nor (hall any be lowerthan 35
feet on any of the avenues."
4-tli. " That the person or persons ap
pointed by the Commiflioners to superin
tend the buildings, may enter on the land
of any person to let out the foundation,
and regulate the walls to be built between
party and party, as ; to the breadth and
thickness thereof: which foundation (hall
be laid equally on the lands of the perfon9
between whom such party-walls are to be
built, and (hall be of the breadth and
thickness determined by such person pro
per ; and the firft builder (hall be reim
bursed one moiety ef the charge of such
party-wall, or so much thereof as the
next builder (hall have occasion to make
use of before such next builder (hall any
way life or break intothe wall; the charge
or value thereof to be set by the person or
persons so appointed by the CommilTion
ers."
sth. "As temporary conveniences
will be proper for lodging workmen and
securing materials for building, it is un
derstood that filch may be erected with the
approbation of the commiflioners; but
they may be removed or discontinued by
the special order of the commiflioners."
6th. " The way into the squares being
designed in a special manner for the com
mon use, and convenience of the occupiers
of the refpeftive squares, the property in
the fame is referred to the public, so that
there may be an immediate interference on
any abuse of the use thereof by any indi
vidual, to the nuisance or obftru&ion of
others. The proprietors of the lots ad
joining the entrance into the squares, on
arching over the entrance and fixing the
gates in the manner the commiflioners
(hall approve, (hall be entitled to divide the
space over the arching, and build it up
with the range of that line of the square."
7th. " No vaults (hall be permitted un
der the streets, nor any encroachment on
the foot-way above, by Heps, (loops, por
ches, cellar-doors, windows, ditches or
leaning-walls, nor (hall there be any pro
jection over the streets other than the eaves
of the. he _ r es, without the consent of the
commiflioners."
Bth. " These regulations are the terms
and conditions, under and upon which
conveyances' arc to be made, according to
the deeds in trust of the lands within the
city."
Gentlemen, in poffejjion of Subferipiion
papers for this Gazette, are requejltd to
transmit them to the Editor*s OJjice.
R.CONGRESS.
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES
Friday Jan. 3, 1794.
IN committee of the whole on the re
port of the Secretary of State refpe&ing
foreign Commerce—Mr. Trumbull in the
chair.
Mr. Madison after some general obfer
vatious 011 the report, entered into a more
particular consideration of the fubjeft.
He remarked that the commerce of the
United States is not at this day on that
refpe&able footing, to which from its na
tnre and importance it ii entitled. He re
curred to its situation previous to the a
doption of the constitution, when con
i: cting fyllemß prevailed in the different
States—the then existing state of tilings
gave rife to that convention of delegates
from the different parts of the Union, who
met to delibeiate on some general princi
ple;; for the regulation of commerce which
might be conducive in their operation
to the general welfare, and that such mea
furcs {houlu be adop'ed as would concili
ate the fricndlhip and good faith of those
countries who were disposed to enter into
the nearest commercial connexions with us.
But what has been the result of the sys
tem which has been pursued ever since ?—
What is the present situation of our com
meice ? From the situation in which we
find ourselves after four years experiment,
he observed, that it appeared incumbent
on the Ur.ited States to fee whether they
could not now take measures promotive of
those objects for which the government
was in a great degree ioftituted. Mea
sures of moderation, firmnefs, and deci
sion, he was persuaded were now necessa
ry to be adopted, in order to narrow the
sphere of our commerce with those na
tions who fee proper not to meet us on
terms of reciprocity.
Mr. Madison then read the following
Resolutions:
Rrfoliied, as the opinion of this com
mittee* that the interest of the United
States would be promoted by further re
ftriCtion* and higher duties, in certain cases,
on the manufactures and navigation of fo
reign nations, employed in the commerce
of the United State, than those now im
posed.
1. RefeheJ, at the opinion of this com
mittee, that an additional duty ought to
be laid on the following articles, manufac
tured by European nations, having no
commercial treaty with the United States.
On all articles of which leather i> the
material of chief vjlue, an additional duty
of per centum ad valorem.
On all manufactured iron, fleel, tin,
pewter, copper, brass, or articles of which
either of these metals is the material of
chief value, an additional duty of per
centum ad valorem.
On all article* of which cotton is the
material of chief value, an additional duty
of per centum ad valorem.
On all cloths of which wool is the ma
terial of chief value, where the estimated
value on which the duty is payable is above
an additional duty of per ceutum
ad valorem ; where such value is below
an additional duty of per centum
ad valorem.
On all cloths of which hemp or flax is
the material of chief value, and of which
the eilimated value on which the duty i>
payable is below , an additional duty
of per centum ad valorem.
On all manufa&ures of which silk is the
material of chief value, an additional duty
of per centum ad valorem.
i. Refolvtd, as the opinion of this com
mittee, that an additional duty of
per ton, ought to be laid on the vessels
belonging to the nations having no com
mercial treaty with the United States.
3. Refolvtd, as the opinion of this com
mittee, that the duty on vessels belong
ing to the nations having commercial
treaties with the United States ought
to be reduced to per ton.
4. Rtfolved, as the opinion of this com
mittee, that where any nation may re
fute to consider as vessels of the United
States, any vessels not bui I.'1.' within the
United States, the foreign built vessels
of such nation ought to be fubje&ed to
a like refulal, unlets built within the
United States. -
5. Rtfohxd, as the opinion of this com-
mittce, that where aay nation miy r«-
fufe to admit the produce or manufac
ture! «f the United Statu, upleft in
vdld* befenging to the United States,
cr«#,*|®jt Ami ia Tcffeb of the Uni
ted tiWa, if Wft imported from any
place not within the United States, a
like reftri&ion ought, after the day
of to be extended to the produce
and manufactures of such nation, and
that, in the mean time, a duty of
per toll extraordinary ought to be im
posed on vessels so importing any such
produce or manufa&ure.
6. Rcfolvtd, as the opinion of this com
mittee, that #here any nation may re.
fufe to the vessels of the United States
a carriage of the produce or manufac
tures thereof, whilst such produce or
manufactures are admitted by it in its
own vessels, it would be just to make
the reftri&ion reciprocal: but inasmuch
as such a measure, if suddenly adopted,
might be particularly distressing in ca
ses which merit the benevolent atten
tion of the United States, it is expedi
ent, for the present, that a tonnage ex
traordinary only of be imposed on
the vessels so employed: and that all
distilled spirits imported therein lhall be
fubjeA to an additional duty of one
part of the existing duty.
7. Resolved, as the opinion of this com
mittee, that provilion ought to be made
for liquidating and ascertaining the los
ses sustained by citizens of the United
States, from the operation of particular
regulations of any country contravening
the law of nations, and that such lofles
be reimbursed, in the firft instance, out
of the additional duties on the manu
factures, productions and vessels of the
nation establishing such unlawful regu-
latione.
Mr. Madison, took a general view of
the probable effects which the adoption of
something like the resolutions he had pro
posed, would produce. They would pro
duce, refpc&ing many articles imported,
a competition which would enable coun
tries who do not now supply us with those
articles to do it and would encreafe the
encouragement on such as we can produce
within ourselves. We Ihould also obtain
an equitable (hare in carrying our own
produce; we fliould enter into the field
of competition on eqaal terms, and enjoy
the a&ual benefit of advantages which na
ture and the spirit of our people entitle us
to.—
He adverted to the advantageous situa
tion this country is entitled to stand in,
considering the nature of our. export!
and returns. Onr exports are bulky,
and therefore mult employ much (hip
ping, which might be nearly all our
own; our exports are chiefly necefiaries
of life, or raw materials, the food for the
manufacturers of other nations. On the
contrary chief of what we receive from
other countries we can either do without,
or produce substitutes.
It is in the power of the United States
he conceived, by exerting her natural
nghts, without violating the rights or
even the equitable pretensions of other
nations; by doing no more than molt na
tions do for the protection of their inter
ests, and much less than some, to make
her interests refpefted ; for what we re
ceive from other nations are but luxuries
to ui, which if we chose to throw aside
we could deprive part of the manufacturers
of those luxuries of even bread, if we
are forced to contest of felf denial; this be
ing the cafe, our country may make her
enemies feel the extent of her power.
We stand with refpeA to tfte nation ex
porting those luxuries in the relation of an
opulent individual to the labourer in pro
ducing the fuperfluities for his accommo
tion ; the former can do without those
luxuries, the consumption of which gives
bread to the latter.
He did not propose, or wi(h that the
United States (hould, at present, go so far
in the line which his resolutions point to
as they might go. The extent to which
the principles involved in those resolution%
(hould be carried will depend upon filling
up the blanks. To go to the very extent
of the principle immediately might be in
convenient : He wilhed only that the le
gislature (hould mark out the ground on
which we think we can stand, perhaps it
may produce the effect wiflied for, with
out unnecessary irritation: we need not
at firft go every length.
Another confideratioa would induce
him, he said, to be moderate in filling up
the blanks :—not to wound public credit.
He did not wi(h to rilk any sensible dimi
nution of the public revenue. He believ
ed, that if the blanks were filled with
judgment, the diminution c» the revenue
from a diminution in the quantity of im
ports would be counterbalanced by the in
creafc in the duties.
The last rcfolutipa he had proposed, he
{aid, is in a manner diftinft from the reft.
The nation is bound by the moil sacred
obligation, he conceived, to protest the
rights of its citizens against a violation of
them from any quarter; or, if they can
not protest, they are bound to repay the
damage.
It is a fact authenticated to this house
by communications from the executive,
that there are regulations eftablilhed by
some European nations,contrary to the law
of nations, by which our property is sei
zed and difpoled of in such a way that
damages have accrued. We are bound ei
ther to obtain reparation for the injustice,
or compensate the damage. It is only in
thefirft instance, no doubt, that the bur
den is to be thrown upon the United
States; the proper department of go
vernment will no doubt take proper steps
to obtain redress.
The justice of foreign nations will cer
tainly not permit them to deny reparation
when the breach of the law of nations
appear evidently; at any rate it is just that
the individual lliould not fuffer.
He believed the amount of the dama
ges that would come within the meaning
of this resolution, would not be very con
siderable.
Mr. Madison's Resolutions being se
conded, were presented and read by the
clerk.
Mr. W. Smith rose to make some re
marks on the observations of Mr. Madison
—when a motion was made by Mr. Fitz
fimons that the committee (hould rife and
report progress, and that the house (hould
give order for printing the Resolutions.
After some further remarks by two or
three members, Mr. Madison said lie had
no wish to precipitate the discussion ; he
was content that the committee (hould now
rife, and that a future early day (hould be
assigned.
The motion for the committee's rising,
being put, was agreed to—the committee
rose accordingly, and reported progress.
A question then occurred as to the day
on which the business (hould be taken in
' to consideration—next Monday was men-
tioned.
Mr. Ames proposed next Monday week
—he observed that the resolutions involv
ed the greatelt interests of this country —
. that for himfelf he could not possibly be
prepared to discuss the business by Mon
day next ; the report of the secretary was
incomplete, a supplementary report had
been received from that officer, which had
not yet been printed, and he believed that
the members were not poffefTed of a know
ledge of its contents ; he could speak for
himfelf at least. He further remarked,
that the fubjeft reqnired the most mature
deliberation of the house—sudden and
hasty dccifions might be followed with the
most serious effects ; they might involve
the facrifice of the eflential interests, or
the honor of the United States.
Mr. Madison said, he saw no neceflity
for a very distant day ; the fubjeft was
not a new one—it existed previous to the
present government, it had been repeat
edly before the legislature of the United
States, it had been amply dilated on in
reports and public dissertations ; he did
not conceivethere was a fmgle proposition
contained in the refolutior.swhich liad not
been repeatedly revolved in the minds of
every member of the honfe. He suppos
ed an early difcuflion would be the most
eligible, as the members would as it pro
ceeded, natnrally throw light upon it.
Mr. W. Smith was in favor of Monday
week—he supposed that many documents
would be wanted by the members which
were not now in the possession of the house
—besides he observed that as soon as the
present queilion was got rid of, he (hould
lay before the house sundry resolutions, re
fpefting foreign tonnage, which would
naturally connect themselves with the reso
lutions brought forward by the member
from Virginia.
Mr. Nicholas was in favor of Wednes
day—he wished for an early difcuflion
He thought the fubjeA would receive
more light from the public deliberations of
the members themselves, than ti would
derive from their studies in their chambers
—the difcuflion will be interesting, it can
not be hurried, and no sudden decision
need be anticipated from as early a day as
Wednesday.
Mr. Murray was in favor of Monday
week—he differed from the gentleman last
up that a public coliflion on this or any o
ther fubjeA was the most probable way to
strike out truth. The calm and dispas
sionate confederation of proportions at lei
sure, appeared to him more likely to be
succeeded by a jufland found deciiion.
He wished for more time than some gen
tlemen appeared willing to allow.
Mr. S. Smith was in favor of Monday
week—he enumerated a number of docu
ments which he thought would be found
neceflary to enable the members to judge
with precision. He considered the fub
je& as highly important to his conftjtu
ents, on which too much deliberation
could scarcely be bellowed, it refers to tax
es and new impositions on trade, the ex
pediency of which ought to be maturely
considered. The object of the proposi
tions are evidently a .commercial warfare
—this is commonly introdu&ive of ano*
ther species of contest—a very serious con
federation ! The gentleman who brought
forward the resolutions had probably ma
tured his ideas on the fubjefl, for his part
he had not, he required more time.
Several other members spoke on the oc-
I cafion motion for Monday week be-
I P ut > was carried by a large majority.
INSTRUCTIONS
From the Cmifliluted Authorities of France,
To CITIZEN GENET,
Minijler of the French Republic y to the United
States of North-America.
Philadelphia, 20th Dec. 1793 ; second
year of the French Republic, one and
indivisible.
Citizen Gfnei, Minister Plenipotentiary of
the French Republic to the United States,
to M. Jefferfon, Secretary of State.
Sir,
The politics of regenerated France, hav
ing candor, fnwknefs and publicity for
their only basis, the mvfterious secrecy of
courts being entirely rejected from her
councils, and the only art of her public
agents being that of using none, I have
informed you, that I would publi(h my
correspondence with the federal govern
ment, and likewise the inftruftions that
have been given to me by the Executive
Council of the French Republic. The
(heets which contain my correspondence
are not yet printed off; but those which
contain the translation of my inltru&ioM
being finiftied, I hasten to enclose to you
copies of them. I beg that they may be
distributed among the members of Cpn
grefs, and that you will request the Presi
dent of the United States to lay them of
ficially before both houses of that legisla
tive body. This firft part of the collec
tion, whieh I announce to you, and which
I (hall transmit to you 111 due fuceeflion,
will enable the representatives of the Ame
rican people to determine whether my po
litical conduit since I have resided in the
United States, has been conformable to the
intentions of the French people. Thi«
step is a duty which I conceive I owe to
my country, and thus leaving it to your
sage Legislators to take such measures re
fpe&ing the points that are in negociation
between us as the interest of the United
States shall appear to require, nothing will
remain for me to do but to prosecute in
your courts of Judicature, the authors and
abettors of the odiou« and vile machina
tions that have been plotted against me
by means of a series of impo(lures which
for a while have fafcinated the minds of
the public, and milled even your firft ma
gistrate, with a view to (hake at lead, if
aot to break off entirely, the alliance be
tween two nations which every considera
tion calls upon to unite and rivet (till fafter
the bonds which tie them to each other, at
a period when the most imminent danger
equally threatens them both.
Accept my refpe&s.
GENET.
INSTRUCTIONS.
Memorial to serve as injlruSions to Citizen
Genet, adjutant-general and colonel, going
to America in quality of Minijler Pleni
potentiary of the French Republic to the
Congress of the United Stales.
THE pa riotifm which Citizen Genet
has shewn in the different employment# en
trusted to him, and his known attachment
for the cause of liberty and equality, have
determined the execute council to nomi
nate him Minister Plenipotentiary of the
French Republic to the Congress of t'ne
United States of Nfrth-America. Thii
proof of confidence is the mote flattering
for citizen Genet, as the French nation set
a high value upon the tie* which unite
them to the American people, tie* whick
the national affrmblv has, on the: 2d June,
1791, fherni the desire to draw still clofcr,
and the legislature he;, moreover, expre£-lv ordered the executive power to negoci
ate with the United States a new treaty
of commerce, which may encreafe between
the two nations those connexions mutually
advantageous both to the one and to the
other of them. Struck, with the gran
deur and importance of this negocia
tioifc the Executive Council prescribe
to citizen Genet, to exert himfelf to
strengthen the Americans in the principles
which led tliem to unite themselves to
France ; to make them perceive that they
liave no ally more natural or more disposed
to treat them as brethren ; that these sen
timents are engraven in the hearts of all
Frenchmen enlightened upon the true in
terests of their own country ; and, if the
two nations have not yet reaped the advan
tage, it has been the fault of the govern
ment we havejuit overthrown; it is thro'
the treason of the cabinet of Versailles.—
This truth is this day revealed. The Ex
ecutive Council has called for the instruc
tions given to Citizen Genet's predcceffors
in America, and has seen in them, with
indignation, that at the very time the good
people of America exprefied their grati
tude to us in the most feeling manner, and
gave us every proof of their friendfhip,
Vergennes and Montmorin thought, that
it was right for France to hinder the Uni
ted States from taking that political fiabi
lity of which they were capable ; because
they would soon acquire a strength, which,
it was probable, they would be eager to
abuse. They, in consequence, directed
both the one and the other of these Minis
ters of Louis XVI. to the Congress, to
preserve the most passive conduit, aiid to
{peak only of the Prince's personal withes
for the prosperity of the United States.
The fame machiavelian principle influenced
the operations of the war for Indepen
dence ; the fame duplicity reigned over
the negociations for peace. The
deputies from Congress exprefled the
delire that the cabinet of Versailles would
aflift in the conquest of the two Floridas,
of Canada, and of Nova Scotia; but
Louis and his ministers constantly refufed,
looking upon the pofleffion of these coun
tries by Spain and England, as a ufeful
principle of uneasiness and vigilance for
the Americans after the peace. This ufe
lcfs jealousy turned into contempt ; the
people for whom they pretended to have
taken up arms became an object of disdain ;
for the court neglected to correspond with
them, and by that criminal coiiduft they
ga*e the power, whose influence in Ame
rica we ought to have extinguished, arms
to combat and to destroy our own. It is
thus the ministers, under the old fyftcm,
blindly labored with all their exertions to
ftifle liberty, after having been compelled
by the general voice of the nation to affilt
its birth in the new world ; 'tis thus they
cooled the zeal; 'tis thus they loosened
the bands of the two people ; 'tis thus
that by their infamous policy they disgust
ed the Americans with the French alliance,
and strengthened, themselves, that of the
English. The republicans who have dis
placed these vile supporters of despotism
are eager to mark out for citizen Genet, a
path diametrically opposite to the crooked
windings by which his predecessors were
entangled. The Executive Council, faith
ful to its duties and obedient to the will
of the French people, authorize citizen
Genet to declare with freedom & sincerity,
to the ministers of Congress, that those of
the French republic, throwing far from
them every thing appertaining to the old
embassy, the revenue system, the cautious
policy, and all those impediments to the
riches and prosperity of the nations, have
highly approved the overtures made to ci
tizen Temant, as well by Gen. Washing
ton as by Mr. Jefferfpn, upon the means
of renewing and consolidating our com
mercial ties, in placing them on the prin
ciples of truth itfelf; that the Execu
tive Council are disposed to set on foot
a negociation upon those foundations, and
that they do not know but that such atrea
ty admits a latitude still more extensive in
becoming a national agreement, in which
two great people (hall suspend their com
mercial and intereftsand establish
a mutual understanding.to befriend the em
pire qi liberty, wherever it can be embrac
ed, to guarantee the sovereignty of the
people, and punish those powers who still
keep up an exclusive colonial and commer
cial system, by declarmgthat their veflcls
ihall not be received in the ports of the
contra&ihg parties. Such a pact which
the people erf France will fepporr with all
the energy which distinguishes th<m, and
of which they have already given so many
proofs, will quickly contribute va tl^.gt-
neral emancipationof the new world. How-
ever vast this project may be, it will not
be difficult to execute if the Americans de-
termine on it, and it is to convince them
of its practicability that Citizen Genet
must direst all his attention : For besides
the advantages which humanity in general
will draw from the success of such a nego-
ciation, we have at this moment a particu-
lar interest in taking llep3 to ast efficaci
oufly against England and Spain, if, as
every thing announces, these powers attack
us from hatred to our principles ; if the
Englifli minifteu inllead of lharing in the
glory of France, instead of considering that
our liberty, as well as that of those people
whose chains we have broken, for ever ef-
tablifhcs that of their own country, fufrer
themselves to be influenced by our ene-
mies and by those to the liberty of man-
kind, and embark with every tyrant against
that cause which we are defending.
military preparations making in Great Bri-
tain become every day more and more feri-
ous and have an intimate connection with
The friendfhip which
those of Spain.
reigns between the minilters of the last
power and those of St. James' proves it ;
and in this situation of affairs we ought to'
excite, by all pcffible means, the zeal of
the Americans, who are as much interested
as ourselves, in disconcerting the deftruft-
ive projects of George the Third, in which
they are probably an object. Their own
fafety still depends on ours, and if we fail
they will sooner or later fall under the iron
rod of Great Britain. The Executive
Council has room to believe that these rea-
sons in addition to the great commercial
advantages which we are difpo<ed to con-
cede to the United States, will determine
their government to adhere to all that ci-
tizen Genet (hall propose to them on our
part. As it is pofiible, however, that
the falfe representations which have been
made to Congress of the situation of our
internal affairs, of the llate of our maritime
force, of our finances, and efpeciallv of the
storms with which we are threatened may
make her ministers, in the negociations
which citizen Genet is entrusted to open,
adopt a timid and wavering conduit, the
executive council charges him, in expecta
tion that the American government will
finally determine to make a common cause
with us, to take such steps as will appear
to him exigencies may require, to lerve
the cause of liberty and the freedom of the
people. Citizen Genet will lend the aflill-
ance of his good offices to all the French
citizens who (hall have recourse to him,
and whole conduct (hall be unexceptiona
ble ; but the executive council understand
that this protection (hall in no cafe contra
vene the laws of the country, and (hall not
extend to people of doubtful character, ba
ni(hed from their country, or to citizens
whose conduct (hall be reprehensible. Ci
tizen Genet will avoid as much as he can
those rediculous disputes about etiquette
which so much occupied the old diplo
macy. The representatives of other pow
ers are not however to be fuffered to at
tempt to deprive France, become free, of
that precedence it enjoyed under its anci
ent form. The Executive Council informs
citizen Genet for his regulation of the
conduct which they wi(h to be followed by
the ministers of the French Republic, if
disputes (hould arise refpe&ing the ceremo
ny and the precedence between them and
the representatives of other powers.
The intention of the council is, that
the ministers of the nation (hould declare
without reserve, that the French people'
fee in all other people their brethren and
their equals, and that they desire to re
move every idea of superiority or prece
dence ; but that if any state, mistaking
the generality of these principles, pre
tends to any particular diftinftion and en
deavors to obtain it by any ftep6 direct
or indirect, the ministers cf the French
people (hall then insist on all the preroga
tives the French power has at any time
enjoyed ; the nation determining that in
that cafe its ministers should defend those
rights, being certain that the nation will
make them respected.
As to the ceremonies of his firft audi
ence, the delivery of his credentials, and
his communications with the Federal go
vernment, Citizen Genet will conform
himfelf to those rules which the Congress
(hall have eftablilhed for all the diploma
tic corps in this refpeft ; exceptions only
offend ; general rules wound no one.
Such are the political objects trusted to
the zeal of citizen Genet; the Executive
Council w3l give him particular instruc
tions upon the Consular affairs with which
be \»3l be charged, upon the negociations
relative to the liquidation of the. debt of
the United States, upon the iupplies for
the colonies, upon those which the marine
and war departments call for, and upon
the negociations which citizen Ternant
was charged to set on foot with the United
States to induce them to furnifh corn,
fiour, and fait proviiions on account of
their debt.
With the minister for foreign affairs Ci
tizen Genet will correspond upon these
different objects, and it is from him that he
will receive the nation's orders. His com
munications with the other ministers will
only extend to the details of adminiftra-
tion, relative to their refpeftive depart
ments, and he will be careful to give dif
tinft information to the minister for fo
reign affairs, to the end that he may have
always before his eyes the whole of the
operations of the French Agents with Fo
reign Powers.
The
Read and agreed upon in Executive
Council at Paris, January 4th, 1793.
Second year of the French Republic.
(Signed)
MONGE, President,
LE BRUN, Minster for
[Foreign Affairs.
(To be continued.)
a© 6 *©e#o)BC©ee!g)o«o)o«@)Be@oc^.«@»«@c«©>»
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 4.
Wednesday the ift of January a commit
tee of officers from the 2d regiment of
Philadelphia Militia waited on Citizen
Genet with the following
ADDRESS.
To E. Cbarks Gout, Minijlrr Plenipoten
tiary front the Republic of France to the
United States.
Citizen Minister,
A deputation of officers from the firft
and 2d battalions of the 2d regiment of
Philadelphia Militia, have the pleasure of
waiting on you, in order to tcitify to you
their fatisfa&ion on the happy profpeft of
the establishment of a free Republic in
France—as well as the high opinion they
entertain of your civic and democratic vir
tues, and wish, Sir, that the present year
may usher in victories to your republic,
and terminate in your personal happiness.
For and in behalf of said Regiment,
When the Minister made the following
Philadelphia, 2d January, 1794.
id year of the French Republic.
Citizen Genet, Minister Plenipotentiary
from the Republic of France to the U
nited States,
To the deputation of the Officers of the 2d
regiment of Philadelphia Militia.
Citizens,
At a time when the perfidious clamors
of (lander eagerly received by the enemies
of equality are raised on all fides to impair
the fentimcnts of benevolence which the
American citizens bear towards the French
Republic, and those who faithfully serve
it, it is particularly grateful to me to fee
that impenetrable to the (hafts of calumny
and proof against the errors to which de
traction may have given birth, you pre
serve the affectionate attachment for my
country which {he has merited by the un
shaken resolution with which she maintaini
the rights of man, and accelerates the de
cision of the grand question, whether li-
berty or despotism, democracy or aristo
cracy (hall prevail. It is not solely in the
midst of combat the French people have to
contend with their enemies who rife up a
gainst them in every (hapeand in all parts of
the world, but the zeal of their agents at
home & abroad (hall be as constant as the in
vincible courage of their soldiers, as long as
they (hall be fupportcd & animated in their
faithful career,by the esteem of free & virtu
ous men ; this being our only ambition,citi
zens, you may easily conceive what heart
felt pleasure and fatisfa&ion I have receiv
ed from your repeated expressions of friend
(hip and of the interest you take in my
country's cause.
A late paper has an article which begins
in the following manner—no doubt a ty
pographical error.
"We often deceive ourselves when we
suppose the attainment of a curtain obje£t
will be the aid of our ambition."
Tranihted from the Courier Poiitiqus of
Paffcngeri arrived this day from Cape-
Francois, announce the capture of that
place by the Spaniards, who attacked it
by land and sea—the Courier promises the
details of this event in the next paper—the
veflel being below in the river, though the.
passengers are arrived in the city.
The officers of the fee on d regiment of mi
litia pay a compliment of five lines—and
Mr. Genet replies in one of twenty-five.
The plenty of profejfions makes them cheap :
or it may be (ftnee the printed contradiction of
his Charleston charities) the quality is fuf
peSed. There mujl be more bulk to make up
'weight. One would almojf believe that Ci-
tizen Genet is paying the o/ficers in ajfgnats
atfive for one. To get praise or any of her
good thing one mttft pay fairly and pay
enough for it—that is the way to get more.
It is afine market for addrejfes—give him a
little praise and back it comes five-fold. Con
fider'tng what he has done y it is worth five
for one to praise his condu3, He complains
of calumny and prints his inflrud'tons to
prove, even to those of little faith 9 that not
one fifth part of the truth has yet been told
againfl him—He commits outrages that an
beyond all example and prints vindications to
f lew that he meant worse.
John Barker,
Lt. Colonel.
reply
GENET.
the 2d instant.
FROM A LORRESPO-VZ>INT.
A GOOD CONSTITUTION.
There are no words in our language that
admit of a greater variety of application—
That country poffejfes a good con/lituti on in
the opinion of a minister, which is rich in
revenue. good conflitution, in the eye of
a patriot, is where the burthens on indufhy
are light and eajy. IVr I'rvt under a goodconfti
tutionj fays the Alderman, whilfi his knife is
immersed in a haunch of venison. —Is theri
Jo good a conflitution in the world ? mumble $
the doubled-chinned Church-IVarden, while
seated at thejhead of a visitation dinner, hU
mouth crammed with parifo pudding
Where can we findfucb a good conflitution?
roars the rich Re ft or, wh'dfl the poor Curate,
walking home with his quarter's salary,
heaves afigh, and• presumes to think it might
be mended Eng. pap.
EXTRACT,
From the Columbian Centinel.
" In vain muji we rely on foreign aid,
" By our own arms, our commerce muji be
freed,"
And the United States in Congress aflem
bled, have only to order immediate purchase of
eight or ten Jlout frigates, and no doult can it
entertained that the expense would cheers ully
be complied with ; and that this force would
be fujfeient to keep the pirates within their own
ports. It rtj':, however, with the wisdom
of thofewhom we have deputed to give laws
to the Union, to decide, whether an armed
force, or money presents, can bejl be employed.
Economy may wijh the latter—National
Dignity may demand the former.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at SALEM.
Brig St. John, Ward,
Schr. Olive, Allen, do.
Catharine, Tarrant, Isle of May
ARRIVED at NEWPORT.
Schr. Two-Brothers, Himberly,
Brig Industry, Eovett,
Peggy Hopkins,
ARRIVED at BOSTON.
Schr. Peter, Wells,
PRICE of STOCKS.
Philadelphia, January 4, 1794.
18\f
6 per cents,
j ditto, 10/ to 1 oft.
Deferred, llf
U. S. Bank, 11 per «ent. advance.
N. A. ditto, 20 ditto ditto.
Pennsylvania do. 7 ditto ditto.
To the Stockholders of the Bank
of the United States.
Grn» temro,
FINDING »« inconvrnient to continue any
longer jn »hc Dirr&ion, 1 requaft you iq
honor i-unc other pnfon with y*<or choice at
the eniuing Elrftion, in tke room of
YoUi moll obedient Servant,
WILLIAM SMITH.
Ch'fnut.ftreet, Jan. 4th. 179^
W. Indict
Martinico
New-Orleans
Walhington
MartinicoA New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be l'old by
R. AITKEN,
No. 22, MarketJlreet,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME"
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philadelphia, for promoting Ufefu
Knowledge, Vol. 3. Ptice 20/ in boards
OTfr The fnbfcribers are requested to call
as above directed for the 3d vol. where may
be had, complete setts uniformly printed.
Contents of Vol. %(l-
»• An efTay on those enquiries in Natural Phi
losophy, which at present are mod benefici
al to tIW United States of North America.
Dr. Nicholas Collin,
2. Conjecture", concerning the formation of
the earth, &c. Dr. B. Franklin.
3. A new and curious theory of Light and
Heat. Dr. B. Franklin.
A• Defcript : on of the process to be observed
in making large (heetsof paper in the Chi
nese maimer, with one fniooth furface.
Dr. B. Franklin.
5. Queries and conjectures relative to Mag
netism, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
6. Explanation of a lingular phenomenon, firft
observed by Dr. Franklin, and not fatisfac
torijy accounted for. Mr. R. fatterjon.
An account of an Earthy Substance found
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls; together with
some remarks on the Falls.
Robert Al l CavJfin y M. D.
8. Observations on the pr<vbabilities of the
duration of Human Life, and the progress
of population, in the United States of Ame-
William Barton, Ffq.
9* A letter containing observations made at
Lake Erie, on that singular phenomenon,
by Teamen termed looming.
Andrew Ellicot Esq.
10. An Account of the Sugar Map~ Tree
of the United States, and-of the methods
of obtaining Sugar from it, together with
observations upon the advantages both pub
lic and private of this Sugar.
Benjamin Rufh> M. D,
rr. Memoir on the life of the Thermometer
in discovering Banks, Soundings, &c.
Jonathan Williams, Esq.
12. An Account of the most effe&ual means
of preventing the deleterious consequences
of the bite of the Crotalus Horridin, or Rat
tle Snake. Benjamin Smith Barton, M. D.
13. Magnetic Observations, made at the Uni
versity of Cambridge, (MafTachufetts.)
Dr. S. Willia.ms.
14. Accurate determination of the right af
confion and declination of Bootes, aj)d the
Pole Star. Andrew EUicott, Esq.
15. Account of several Houses in Philadelphia,
struck with Lightning, on June 7th, 1789.
David Rittenhoufe, Esq.
j6. An Account of the effects of a stroke of
Lightning 011 a House furniftied with two
Conductors. David Ritten/ioufe, and Francis
Hopkinfon, Efqrs.
17- Experiments and Observations on Evapo
ration in cold Air. C. Wijlar, M. D.
18. Postscript to Mr. Barton's Letter, to
Dr. RittenhouTe, of the 17, of March, 1791.
19. New Notation of Music.
Mr. R. Pattefon.
20. Observations on the Theory of Water
Mills, &c. IV. Waring.
19. Agronomical Observations.
David Rittenhoufe.
20. A letter relative to a method of finding
the sum of the several powers of the Sines,
David Rittenhoufe, Esq.
Si. Index Florae Lancaltrienfis.
Henrica Muhlenberg, D. D.
22. Investigation of the power of Dr. Bar
ker's Mill, as improved by James Rumfey,
with a description of the mill. W. Waring.
23. A Therniometrical Journal of the tem
perature of the Atmosphere and Sea, on a
voyage to and from Oporto, with explana
tory observations thereon.
Jonathan Williams, Esq.
24- Fh ft memoir ofoofervations on the plants
denominated Cryptogamick.
M. Dc Beauvois.
25. A letter, containing observations on the
ancient works of Arr, the Native Inhabi
tants, &c. of the Western Country.
Major Jonathan Htart.
26. An account of some of the principal dies
employed by the North American Indians.
Extracted by the late Mr. Hugh Martin.
17. An account of the beneficial eifedts of the
Caflia Chama?crifta in recruiting worn-out
lands, and in enriching such as are natural
ly poor; together with a botanical descrip
tion of the plant.
James Greenuay of Virginia.
8. An account of a hill on the borders of
North Carolina, fnppofed to have been a
volcano, in a letter from a Continental of
ficer, to Dr. J. Greenway, Virginia.
29. An Account of a poisonous plant, grow
ing spontaneously in the southern part of
Virginia. Extracted from a paper by
Dr. James Green way, Viigiria.
30. Description of a Machine for measuring a
(hip's way. Francis Hopkinfon, FJq.
31. An Inquiry into the question, whether tl.e
Apis Mellifica, or true Honey-Bee, is a na
tive of America. Benjamin Smith Barton,M.D.
32. An Account of* Comet.
David Rittenhovfe, EJq.
13. Cadmus or a Treatise on rhe Elements of
Written Language, illuftratinp, by a Pbilo
fophical division of Speech, the power of
each character, thereby mutually fixing the
Orthography and Orthoepy. With an Eliav
on the mode of teaching the Deaf, or Sbid
and confw'quently Dumb, to speak, by Wm.
Thornton, M. D. Honored witb the Ma
gellanic Gold Medal, by the Philosophical
Society, in December, 1792 N. B.
Cadmui is printed in a fine 8. vol. and fold
by the Publisher hereof.
34. Obfervatio:»a on the Theory of Water-
35. An Improvement 011 Metalic Conductors
or Lightning rods. Mr. Robert Patterjon.
Honored with die Magellanic Premium, by
an Award of the Society in December 1792.
36. An easy and expeditious method of dis
sipating the noxious Vapour commonly
found in Wells and other subterraneous
places. Ebenezer Robivfon, fjq.
37. A method of draining Ponds in level
grounds. Jfeflc Higgins.
38. Observations on the severity of the win
Rev. Matthew Wtffon.
ter, «7~9, 1780.
39- A Description of a new Standard for
Weights and Measures; io a letter from
Mr. John Cooke, of Tipperary in Ireland.
40, Description of a Spring-Block, designed
to aflift a Veflel in failing, fravers Hopkin«
fo>iy EJ'q. Honored with the Magellanic
Gold Medal, by an Award of* the Society
in December 1790.
December 20.
ALL par Pons having; any demand against
the Ellate and Effedts of Mrs. MARY
SINDIIEY, widow, late of Frankford, Ox
ford town (Kip, in the State of Pennsylvania,
deceased; are desired to produce their ac
counts to Jacob Lesher and "Willi am Creed,
(in Frankford, aforefaid,) Executors and Ad
miniflrators of the above in order for settle
ment. And whoever is indebted to said Es
tate, &c. are requested to make payment to
the aforefaid Administrators, on or before the
16th of March, 1794, or they will be dealt
with according to law.
Frankford, Dec. 16.
Stock Brokers
No. j6, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Sabfcribtr intending to confjpc-himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, brgs leave to of
fer/his services to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may dtpetid
upon having it tranfafted with the utrnoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will be ftriftly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
NO R R I S-C OU R T,
Back of the New Library, between Chefnu
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the bufiiTefo of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-lhutters, done in the mod
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
Just publiflied,
And to be fold by Stewart iff Cochran,
No. 34, South Second-street,
THE
United States Register,
For the Year 1794;
Containing, besides accurate and complete
lifts of all the Officers in the general, and the
principal Officers in the particular govern
ments, a variety of information, ufeful for all
clafTes. tf
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Second-firect y
Seconddoor b?lowthe corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general Assortment of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be disposed of on the lowest terras.
Dec. 23. mw&ftf
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths Sff yewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant Assortment of
SILVER b 5 PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY & jine CUTLERY,
Which they will dispose of on the most rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, done as usual.
December 24.
NOTICE
IS hereby given, to the Members of the
Insurance Company of North-America,
That t he third Instalment, being Two Dollars
on each /hare of ,the Stock, is to be paid, a
greeably to the Conftitntion, on the second
Monday [the 13th day] of January next: And
a General Meeting of the Stockholders is to be
held on the fuccced'ng day, for the pui pose of
choosing Fifteen Directors, examining into the
Situation of the Company's Affairs, and ma
king such additional Rules and regulations
as they ihali judge nerefFarv.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Secratary.
Dec. 16. mw&f 13. j J
MONEY borrowed or leaned, accounts sta
ted or collrtted, employer# fuiied with
domestics, houfc rooms, boarding and lodging
rented, let or procured—loldin's, mariner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims on the
public ; (hares in the banks, in the canals, and
the turnpike road ; certificates granted by the
public, and the old and late paper monies ;
notes of hand, bills, bonds and morgages, with
or without deposits—Bought, fold, or cego
ciated at No. 8, in south Sixth-ftrret, below
Markct-ftreet by FRANCIS WHITE,
Whotranfafls business in thw public offices for
country people and others, by virtue of a pow
er of attorney, or by perfoml application.
W. Waring.
December 1 1
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
And now opening for lale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market jlreti,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual RegiiteV for 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Disney's life of Dr. Jortin
D'Anville's ancient geography
Memoirs of Guy Joli
Variety, a collection of efTays
King of Pruflia's works
Calm observer—by Mackint'olh
Russell's ancient and modem Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extratts, fuperbjy gilt
Elejjant extra&s of natural history
Saugmer and BriiTon's voyage
Rochori's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taffo's Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's trapilajion of Buffon
Berwick's history of quatJrrrpcJ*
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vol*.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan'* dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Present date of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kisses of Secundus
Gallary of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
eod2w.
t&ftf.
Office,
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immaterialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on political juflice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols. 1
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's fketchesof the history of man
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
R.everies of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. &r Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallison the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruffia,Poland,&rc.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Kabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical di&ionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of* the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on Hie muscles
Pott's works
Fonrcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qiiincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatile on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake 011 the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfiin's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Mate- ia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on dileafes of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's diflertat ions
London practice of physic
Bell's fnrgcry
Chaptai's chemistry.
mw&ftf
Just Imported,
Excellent CLARE I',
In hoglhcads and in cases of 50 boulck each,
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipea, hogsheads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Frorifllrect,
J"". 2, 179.1.
NOTICE.
BEING desirous of doling various commer
cial concerns, and that all powers hereto
fore granted relative to the fame should be re*
voked,fand public notice of it given, to prevent
any poflihle mistake ; I, the fubfenber, do here--
by make known to all whom it may
that all powers and letters of attorney, d every
nature and extent, granted by me to any perfonr
or persons, prior to the tft day of July last, tw
ast me or in my name in America, are re
voked ai d made void.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
d 1 w
New-Yo k, Jan. t, 1794
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
By M. C A R E Y,
No. 118, MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuable collection ofBOOKS,
imported from London in the Mohawk.\
Dec. 19.
E. Oswald,
No. 156, Market-Street-, South,
AT the recjueft of a number of friend?,
proposes publifting The Independent
Gazetteer, twice a week, viz. Wedneldavs
and Saturdays—tocommence in January next,
if Sufficient encoeragement offers
It '-ill "KjiabUiiid (W Z'i Types
equal to its prci'ent apneaiance. The sub.
fcription 31 dollars per a'ni.
Adveriiiements not exceeding a fqnare,
will be inserted 4 times for 1 dollar—every
continuance one fifth of a dollar. Thote ex
ceeding a square, in the fame proportion.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE undernamed committee, appointed bv
" THE SOCIETY for iht- INSTITU
TION and SUPPORT of FIRST-DAY or
SUNDAY SCHOOLS in the city of Philadel
phia and the dirtrifl of Southwatk and the
Northern Librrties," to solicit further fubrcrip
tions for the support of the schools which the
said focicty have eftablifheti, take the liberty to
represent to their fellow citizens—
That, although the frhool.' were fufprnded
during the period of .the late awful ralainicy
with which our city and suburbs have been af
flifled, they arc now again opened lor the free
admiflion and education of poor children.
That, the neccffity and rcafons for the eflab
lifhment of these schools are iticreafed, from the
circumstance of the late diftrrfs having left a
number of Orphans dcllitute of all the means
of education, save whet the hand of benevolence
may administer.
Thai, former . xperience has, mo/l pleasingly,
verified the fondeft hopes of the friends of This
inftiluiion, with regard to rhe progrefj and ad
vancement of the children, who have heretofore
been under iis care, in the ufeful branches of
education which it has afforded. Referring to
thisfafl, and to the address to the public, on
this fubj* Q, puMifhed in the newspapers of this
city in the third month la.'t, when about eight
hundred and tweniv children of both rexes had
partaken of the benefits afforded by the society,
and about three "Fiundrtd and twenty more were
th»n afiually receiving inftruftion in their
schools, it now only remains to be observed,
that the funds of the society are greatly infuffi
cent to carry on their benevolent designs, and
that the committee formerly appointed to solicit
fubferiptions, conceived it necessary to dcclinc
their applications to their fellow-citizens for
their afljftancc in favor of these schools, in order
that theie might be no interruption from them
to the felicitations then made »n behalf of their
unfortunate brethren from Cape-Francois.
The public aid is now therefore earnestly so
licited to support a charitable eflablifhment, cal
culated upon the principles of public and pri
vate good. The annual fubfctipiion for a mem
ber is but One Dollar ; and it is presumed that
so small a sum per annum cannot be better dis
posed of, by those who can afford it, than by
bestowing it as the price of the diffufion of ufeful
knowledge among the poor and friendlefj.
Subfcnptipnsand donations will be gratefully
received by the undernamed committoe on be
half of the society :
Peter Thorapfon, Ebenezei Large^
Thomas P. Cope, Jacob CaufFtnan,
Joseph Price, James Todd,
Edward Pole, Joseph James,
James Hardie, Jonathan Pcnrofe,
William Innis, George Meade,
Benjamin Say, John Perot,
Nathaniel Falconer, John M'Cree,
Francis Bailey, Robert Ralfton,
Jeflt Snarplels, Thomas Armat,
Samuel Scoiteri,
George Wilium?,
Peter Bilker,
TO BE SOLI),
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
DeamLer 16.
PHILADELPHIA;
Printed ey JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
J»p-».