©<\sfJtt «f #fafes
EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 6 4 of Vol. V.]
Wanted to Charter,
jit A VESSEL
Of 1000 Barrels burthen.
Enquire of
JOHN CRAIG.
Feb. 24, 1794. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
<"~3Lri The Ship
ANDROMACHE,
(an American bottom)
—gr John Moore, Master;
la a itout good veflel, about two years old,
bnrthen 232 tons, has only made three voy
ages, and may be sent to sea at a frnall ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
Wharton tsf Lewis.
dtf
Feb. 22., 1794.
Mordecai Lewis,
lias for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street:—
A fewßjlc»of R.tflu Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs 'n Boxes,
A V»alc of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of S >uchong Tra, Hyson and
Tonkav, ditto.
Holland Giu in Cases,
A Quantity of Brimfton",
With a Variety of other Good*.
3»W6W
Feb. *0.
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON Ihe 31ft of Utft mon<h. the fuhfcribr ad
dressed a letter to M« ff's. Thomas Pear/alt
$3 Son, merchants in Nc.w-York, and inclosed
therein a hank n<-te, No. 445, lor twenty doU
lars; one ditto, Mo. 151, toi thirty dollars ;
and one ditto, N«. 3«&66, for twenty dollars.
— Hi- also addressed a letter to Mr. Gilbert
Sahonjlall, merchant hi inclosing a
bank bill, No. 148, for fifty dollars, indoiicd
on the back thereof in these words—' 1 Pa) the
within to M-. Gilbert Saltovjlall—Eben. Huvtivg
10*."—-He also addressed a letter to Meff>s. White
i 3 Wardell, merchants in New-Yotk, and inclo-
Ted a bank bill for ten dollars, and a draft in fa
vor of fa»d White & War dell, which letters were
put in the Poll-Office on fatd 31ft January, to
be foiwaided to New-York : But by letters re
ceived from ihe Gentlemen to whom they were
severally addressed, tht money was robbed
from eaeh letter before delivriy.
The Public arc vcquefted to endeavor a de
letion of the V Mains who committed the above
lobbety. The bill indotfed, I think was a York
bank bill, and some others, one or more was
of the United States bank, remitted at Philadel
phia. Any prison dilcovenng the Thief, and
returning the Money, (hall be entitled to fifty
doMar* reward.
EBEN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, 14'b Kib. 1794. 3 wgttw
Philosophical Lectures,
Sy J. M. R A Y.
FROM Edinburgh, lately from Paris,
teacher of Hebrew, &c. language*-, au
thor of Comprehensive View of Philosophical,
Political, and Theological Svftcms, trom the
creation of the world to the present time, &c.
He will begin this second course of Lectures
Kcbru ry 27th, at 6 o'clock in the evening, in
the Friends' grammar school room, 4tU street,
and will finifh it in a month.—The idea of it
wasfngtjefted'by some Ladies for the improve
ment of the sex—but it is calculated for both
fexe* (of any age above childhood) whereby
they will discover a new world in nature,
concealed from others as a fine country is
<r*4n travellers in the night, and as the light,
a»*d the appearanee of nature is from the
b'ind; this will be a new I'cene of enjoyment
and delighr, as that of feeing is to one born
blind, and will teach rhein to acquire the
per use of their faculties, as a child does that
of his limb« by learning to walk this will
elevate them to a PhilofopKical region of fub
litne enjoyments and rational pleasures, as
much superior lo the pleasures and amuse
ments of others as a man is to a child in fla
ture, and which will endure the (hock of a*U
veiiity, and not forfake ihem like others, in
affliction and old age ; as the use and end of
all real knowledge is pradtice and happiness,
ihis course will tend to promote personal hap
piness, and fit for the duties of society, one
part of it will be on the preservation of health
of body and serenity of mind, without which
riches can afford noenjoyment: tboie who ot>-
served the author's regimen,efcaped the Pesti
lential dtfeafe in the houie were others di«d
o€ it. To begin with an introdu&ory Lec
ture on the great benefits ©f Philosophy to
human We.
Feb. 19.
Tuesday, February 25, 175?4-
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldfmitbs & Jeweller
No. 42,
SOUTH *ECONT>-srilKT,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfurtment of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY fiu CUTLERY,
Which they wil! dil'poie of on the most rea
sonable m«m«. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and filvfcr
way, done as nlual.
December 24.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal buryiug-
fround,
TAKES thi* opportunity of returning his
grateful thank* to his former employers,
and requcfting their future favors, at well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
fliorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phtttons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chaiis, and harnofs
ofevory description, in the neatest and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmrn, be has
not the leafi doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion to those who please to employ him.
He has for sale, several carriages almost
fiuiOifd, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel fpringj, a light phseton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jau. 6, 1794-
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Gojfte-Houfe of this
City—
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public >t> general, that he ha* THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippen-Street, be
tween Third and Fourth-Streets, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly improved, and is now
very commodious ; where he has turniflied him
fclt with the best of LIQUORS, and will fur
nift a TABLE for Parties, with the best provi
sions the Markets afford, at any hour, oa the
Ihorccft notice. From his long experience in
this line of bufmefs, he flatters himfelf he (hall
be able to give fatista&ion to all who may please
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 99, 1794.
PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 25.
From a Corrcfpondtni.
Our anarchy men, pretend that they
would have the People strong and the Go
vernment weak. They are against the
Government, that n clear. They are a
gaiaft the People, that is equally clear.
Witness, their fchiemes the summer past.
They tried their utmost to counteract the
President's wife measures. A feeble go
vernment, or a feeble spirited man would
have been borne down and swept into hos
tile measures. Tufcany and Genoa, shew
this truth by their example. Poland has
ever been played upon in like manner. The
crazy mifrulc of Clubs would make this
Country the prize or more properly the
sire-ship of foreign incendiaries. We owe
our peace to the energy of our magistra
cy.
A federal government fays a correfpen
dent, in the General Advertiser, would
ruin France, because the royal faction
would throw tHemselves into one or more
of the federate republics, and thereby
the whole would Gnk under its enemies.
Mr. Genet's game of bringing a state into
play against the Union, looks federsl.
The tendency and the design were plain,
yet our faction juftified the ast and the a
geot, and that paper is devoted somewhat
remarkably to the vindication of the of
fender. Men have loft their lives in France
for only Mating what was done here. It
is proper to mtrk this circumstance, as it
mark* men.
AND
Foreign Intelligence.
MUNICIPALITY, Mi, i«-
The National Coraniiiltoners at 1 .yon*, Fow
die and Collet d'Herbois, have ordered :
ift. That all the public edifices which can be
destroyed by undermining or by fire, (hall be
immediately marked out Far deftru&ion.
id, That every thief and robber (hall be tied
to a flake, with this inscription in large letters,
Mufcadin (fop or petit maitre), on his bread.
3d, That whosoever will occasion the slight
est commotion, or will favour it by esc tarnati
on tor threats, (hall be tried by the Popular
Tribunal, as a counter revolt!tionift.
mw&ftf
4th, 1 hat all infirm citizens, and aged men,
(hall be maintained, lodged, and found in
cloaths, at the expence ot the rich inhabitants of
th«ir cantons.
sth, That every mendicant or idler (hall be
confined.
9th, That in order to procure work for foch
as are willing and able, th«re (hall be levied by
every commons a revolutionary tax on the rich,
in proportion to their fortune and to their in
civifm (difaffe&ion.)
yth, ill fufpcdted persons (hall be im
prisoned until the conclusion of the war, and
that nothing (hall be left with them, but what
it bare'y Beceflary.
Bth, That all bakers shall be obliged to bake
only c/ne fart of bread, to be called equality
brvad.
Chaumette— u The jundlion of eur armies
was happily effe&ed at La Vendee. The rebels
are now fliut up as in a rat trap ; if they (hou'd
escape from thence, let us all exclaim, treason !
treaibn ! Let us ail rife together, and call for
the punishment of the traitors—we are threat
ened—the women ef the town are turning de
votee!. They are paid by the priesthood. Not
daring to carry on openly their infamous trade,
they go into th« churches and pray. They are
anxious to create scenes of horror, and ihed more
blood in the streets of Faris, and renew with
the priests St. Bartholemew's day. He enume
rated all the misfortunes occasioned by fanatic
cifm in La Vendee, where the Ruftians, with
therofaryin hand, aftaflinated our brothers,
and threw them into the fire."
m&t3m
Chaumctte praifcd the people of Paris who
have renounced idolatry, and only adore the
Supreme Being ; but he was apprehensive left
the clergy should still ensnare the good citi
zens.
4t The priests, (said he) whose altars are built
on the human Ikulls, are capable of every
crime ; they make use of poison to fatisfy their
revenge ; and if you do not take care, tlicy
will work miracles. They will poison the
warmefl patriots, burn the commons house and
the national treasury, they will spring mines,
renew a gunpowder plot ; and when their
vitftims ihall pcrilh by fire, sword, and poison,
then will cry out—lt is heaven that punilhes
them.
He moved the council to declare, that if any
commotion is stirred up in favour of fanaticifm
that all the clcrgy (hail be imprisoned. (Ap
plauded.) And considering that the people of
Paris, have declared, that they acknowledge no
other worfoip than that of reason and truth,
the council refoived :
i ft, That all the churches and temples of
different religions and worship which are known
to be in Paris {hall be instantly (hut.
ad, That whatever troubles may ensue in
Paris, in tonfequence of religious motives, the
priests and miniUer* of the different religions
(hall each be particularly refponfibie.
3d, That every perfbn requiring the opening
of a church, or temple, (ball be put under ar
rest as a fulpe&ed person.
4th,That the revolutionary committee are
invited to have a watchful eye over the clergy
of every denomination.
sth, That there shall be addrelTed a petition
to the Convention, to invite them to decree,
that priefls (ball be excluded every public func
tion and administration, as well as from tfce
manufacture of arms of every kind.
6th, That the prefem refolutio* ihall be
printed, posted up, andfent to the department
of Paris, to the commons of its diftritt, to the
fe&ions and popular societies of Paris.
From the Paris papers of the 13d, 14th, «sth,
and 26th, of No.ember.
The dutchefs of Orleans arrived at Paris on
the 43d November, and was immediately com
mitted to ihe Luxemburg
A great number of the persons who signed
the famous petition of the 8000 and the 20,000,
have been taken up.
The fe&ion of Quince Vingt, has requeued
that an altar (hould be ere&ed, on which a
perpetual fire (hould he kept by young virgins.
Their requed however has not betn complied
with.
In each fedion a column is to be elevated on
which the following inscription is to be placed;
• 4 The good man never dies :—He lives for e
er in the recolledHon of his fellow citizens.*'
The council general of the municipality
have pafled a resolution, by which all commit
fariesof the fe&ions refufing to aflift in funeral
proeeflions (hall be difmifled from their offices.
I he flag to be carried in these proeeflions it to
be of three coJoura.
PARIS.
[Whole No. 522.]
Laborde, the rich banker, has been taken
up at his country house of Mcrevillc, and it
1 ow on the road to Paris.
Damon whofc influence appeared to he wa
vering during the continuance of his illnefs,«at
received with the most unbounded applause
when he made his firft appearance in the con
vention, on the aad of November.
In the fitting of the Jacobins on the lid, a
letter was communicated, in which a plot was
developed, that had been formed ta furrendcr
the port of Harre to the English.
J homas Paine, of whofc departure for A
merica the most absurd reports have been cir
culat.d, nihil „ l'ari_ft e fddom frequent,
the Convention.— When Damon mad. hi, firft
appearance on the »*d .f November, he wi,
accompanied by Thomas Paine.
Ihe rcalon that the latter member of the
convention has never been molested in confe
rence of h,, attachment to the Briffotine par
ty, 1% hi, fuppofcd popularityin America, hi,
work on the Right, of Man, and nit entire ig
norance of the trench lauguage, which would
render .t tmpoffible for him to carry on any
intrigue, injunou. to the unity and tndivifibil
ity ol the republic.
General l.aniorliere is on his trial b.fore the
Revolutionary Tribunal.
Congress of the United States.
IN SENATE,
Friday, February 14.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
prefentativrt for concurrence, entitled,
" An ast for the relief of Thomas Jenkins
and S<sns," was read the third time.
Refolvod, That this bill pass.
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the House of Representatives that the Se
nate concur in this bilL
The bill, " authorizing and directing
the settlement of the accounts of Major-
General La Fayette," was tead the se
cond time, and after debate,
On motion,
Ordered, That it lie for consideration,
and enquiry.
The Senate resumed the second reading
of the bill " in addition to the ast for the
punishment of certain crim«9 against the
United States," and after debate-
On motion,
Ordered, That it be re-committed.
' Mr. Cabot from the committee appoint
ed the 3d i/iflant, reported a bill " in al
teration of the ast eilablifhing a mint and
regulating the coins of the United States"
which was read the firll time.
Ordered, That the bill pass to the 2d
reading.
After conlideration of the executfve
bo&nefs,
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
on Monday morning.
Monday, Feb. 17.
The petition of Michael Schmyfer,
agent for Conrad Laub and other!, peti
titiooera against the cleftion of Mr. Gal
latin, to be Senator of the United Statei,
was presented and read, praying to be
heard by counseL
Ordered, That the prayer of the pe
tition be granted.
The consideration of the report of the
committee on the petition of Conrad
Laub and others, refpefting the ele&ion
of Mr. Gallatin to be a Senator of the
United States, was resumed, and after
progress,
Ordered, That the further considera
tion thereof be poilponed until Wednes
day next.
Mr. Vining reported from the joint
committee on enrolled Kills, that they had
examined the enrolled bill, entitled, " An
z&. for the relief of Thomas Jenkins and
fon6," and that it was duly enrolled.
A message from the House of Repre
sentative« by Mr. Beckley their clerk.
" Mr. President—The Speaker of the
.House of Representatives haring signed
an enrolled bill, I am directed to bring it
to the Senate for the signature of the
Vice- Prefident —And he withdrew.
The Vice President signed the enrolled
bill, entitled, ' An ast for the relief of
Thomas Jenkins and Sons" and it was de
livered to the committee on enrolled bills,
to be laid before the President of the U
nited States for his approbation.Tlie bill " mi alteration of the :i:t e!ta
lAifli ag a mint an J i egulatiii'.' the c.rns of
til* United St:::;.."—was read the l.vo.id
lime—
Ordered, That this bill pisa to the third
reading.
Atier the conliJeration of lite executive
bulinefs—
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Tutfcjv February 18.
Mr. Strong from the committee to
whom wis reenmmitted the bill " im ad
dition to the act for the pimilhment of cer
tain crimes against the Unite J States,"
reported amendments.
Ordered, That the bill be printed as
tbe committee have reported it amended.
The bill •' in alteration of the ast elU
bl:!hing a mint and ululating the coin*
of the United States," was re«d the third
time.
Resolved, That this bill pnfs, that the
title thereof be " An ast in alteration of
tl»c att ellablifiiing a mint, and regulating
the coins of the United State*"—that it
be ingroflcd, and that the Secretary desire
the concuri-cncc of the House-os Rcpre
fentatires therein.
Mr. V ining from the joint committee
for enrolled bills, reported, that they had
this day, laid the enrolled bill, entitled,
" An ail for the relief of Thomas Jjnkins
and Sons," before the Prcftdent of the
United States for His approbation.
The Vice-President laid before the Se
nate a letter from the Secretary from the
department of Treafory, together with
fourteen statements of tonnage, for a year
ending the 30th of Sept. 1792, accor
ding to the catriii of vessels in the United
States during that period, which were
read.
Ordered that they lie for confiikration.
The Senate adjourned to II o'clock to
morrow morning.
Vvednelday, February iy.
Hie honorable James Gunn from the
state of Georgia took his feat in the Se
nate.
ecable to the order of the day, the
Senate relumed the coniideration of the
report of the committee on the petition of
conrad Laub and others, refpe&ing the
eleftiun of Mr. Gallatin to be a Senator of
the United States.
On motion,
Ordered, That the consideration there
of be further postponed until to-morrow.
1 tie following written meflage was re
ceived from the Prcfident of the United
States by Mr. Dandridgehis Secretary.
United States, February 19, 1794.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of
the House of Re,>refentatives,
I lay before you the copy of a letter
which I have received from the Chief Jus
tice and Afiociate Ju It ices of the Supreme
Court of the United States > and, at their
d.firt, the rspre&atation, mentioned in
the fame letter, pointing out certain defeats
in the judiciary fyltem.
G. Washington
The message and rcprell-ntation therein
referred to were read.
Ordered, That thev be referred to Mr.
Ellfworth, Mr. Strong, Mr. Taylor, Mr.
Livcrmore and Mr. Potts, to confiderand
report thereon to the Senate.
Conformable to the older of the day
the Senate refurueil the consideration of
the motion made tire 16th of January last,
that the doors of the Senote chamber re
main open while the Sen-ate (hall be fitting
in a and judiciary capacity.
On motion by Mr. MarOn that the
qtieftioti be now taken on tiie proportions,
generally.
A motion was made for the previous
quellion to wit: Shall the question be
now put on the following preliminary re
lolulfor s ?
" RcfoKed, That in all rcprefentative
governments, the Representatives are res
ponsible for their conduct to their consti
tuents, who are entitled to such informa
tion th:.t a diifcri imitation aud jult estimate
6e made theieof.
" RcfoKed, That the Senate of the
tJnited States being the representatives of
the sovereignties of the individual Rates,
w'iofe hafis it the people, owe equal res
ponsibility to the power: by which they
are appointed, as if .that body were ee
nved immediately from the people, apd
that all quelfions and debates arising there
upon, in their legillative and judiciary ca
pacity, ought to he public.
" Rr<olved, That the mode adopted
Ky the Senate of publishing their journals,
and extracts from them in newspapers, is
not adequate to the purpose of circulating
fatisfa&ory information—while the prin
ciples and designs of tlje individual mem
be s are withheld frotrv public view, ref
ponlibility is dcllrsfed, wliich on the pub
licity of their deliberations, would be res
tored ; —the conditutional powers of the
Senate become mors important, in being
more influential over the other branch of
the legislature ; —abufe of power—mal
administration of office, more easily de
tected, and corrected -jealousies rising
in the public mind from secret legidation
prevented;—and greater confidence placed
by our fellow-citi/.ens in the national go
vernment, by which their lives, liberties
and properties are to be secured and pro
tected."
It pafiedin the negative.
On motion,
To postpone the main question to the
next fellion of Congreis, to wit s
" Resolved, That it be a (landing rule
that the doors of the Senate chamber re
main open while the Senate (hall be fitting
in a legiilative and judiciary capacity, ex
cept on such occasions as in their judgment
may require fecrecv, and that this rule
commence on day of "
It passed in the affirmative—Yeas 14 —
Nays 13.
Plie yeas and nays being required by
one fifth of the Senators present,
Those who voted in the affirmative^
are
Messrs. Bradford, Bradley, Cabot, EHf
worth, Foller, Frelicghuyfen, Izard,
Langdon, Livermore, Mitchell, Morris,
Rutherfurd, Strong and V T ining.
1 nose who voted in the are
MefTrs. Brown, Burr, Btitler, Edwards,
Gallatin, Gunn, Hawkins, Jackson, King,
Martin, Monroe, Potts and Taylor.
The Senate resumed the second reading
of the bill " authorizing and directing
the settlement of the accounts of Major-
Geiieral La Fayette," and having amend
ed the fame,
Ordered, That this bill pass to the
third reading.
On motion,
Mr Rutherfurd obtained leave of ab
sence for a few days.
On motion,
To reconsider the following motion, to
wit:
" Rcfolved, That it be a (landing rule
that the doors of the Senate chamber re
main open, while the Senate (hall be fit
ting in a legislative and judiciary capaci
ty, except on such occaiions, as in their
judgment, may require secrecy, and that
this rule commence on day of ."
It passed in the affirmative—Yeas 17
—Nays 10.
The yeas and nays being required by
one fifth of the Senators present,
Those who voted in the afiii-matiTe,
are
Mcflrs. Bradley, Brown, Burr, Butler,
Edwards, Foster, Gallatin, Gunn, Haw
kins, Jackson, King, Langdon, Liver
more, Martin, Monroe, Potts and Tay
lor.
Those who rated in the negative, are
Meifrs. Bradford, Cabot, Ellfworth,
Frelinghuvfen, Izard, Mitchell, Morris,
Rutherfurd, Strong and Vining.
A motion was made to amend the mo
tion lall re-conlidered, as follow s :
" Rcfolved, That after the end of the
present it(Tlon of Congress, and so soon
as suitable galleries (hall be provided for
the Senate chamber, the said galleries (hall
be permitted to be opened every morning,-
so long as the Senate (hall be engaged in
their legiflati*e capacity, (unless in such
cases ai may in the opinioiv of the Senate
require fcerecy) after which, the said gal
lei ;»8 (hall be closed j" and after debate,
The Senate adjourned to 11 'clock to
morrow morning.
Thursday, Feb. zo.
The Senate resumed the consideration
of the motion made yesterday, to amend
tile motion then reconsidered, refpe&ing
the opening the doors of the Senate
chamber, whilst fitting in a legislative ca
pacity.
On motion, To commit the motion for
amendment :
It palled in the negative.
On motion,
That the amendment be agreed to :
It passed in the affirmative—Yeas 18
—Nays—9.
The yeas and nays being required by
one fifth of the Senators pvefent,
Those who voted in affirmative, are,
Mefirs. Bradley, Brown, Burr, Butler,
Edwards, Ellfworth, Fofter.Gunn, Haw
kins, Jackson, King, Laogdon, Liver
more, Martin, Mpnroe, Potts, Taylor,
and Vining.
Those who voted in the negative, are,
MeiFrs. Bradford, Chabot, Frelinghuy
fen, Gallatin, Izard, Mitchell, Morris,
Ruther'urd, and Strong.
On motion to adopt the refoluticn a
mended, as follows:
" Resolved, That after the end of the
present teffion of Congress, and so soon
as suitable galleries (hall be provided for
the Senate chamber, the said galleries shall
be permitted to be opened every morning,
so long as the Senate (hall be engaged in
their legislative capacity, unlcfs in such
cases as may in the opinion of the Senate
require secrecy; after which, the said
galleries (hall be cloied."
It passed in the affirmative, yeas 19,
nays 8,
The yeas and nays being required by
one fifth of the Senators present.
Those who voted in the affirmative, are
Meflrs. Bradley, Brown, Burr, But
ler, Edwards, Elifworth, Foster, Galla
tin, Gunn, Hawkins, Jackson, King,
Langdon, Livermore, Martin,* Monroe,
Potts, Taylor, and Vining.
Those who voted in the negative are,
MeQrs. Bradford, Cabot, Frelinghuy
fen, Izard, Mitchell, Morris, Ruther
furd, and Strong.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk :
" Mr. President—The President of the
United States hath notified the House of
Representatives, that he yesterday appro
ved and signed the ast entitled, '* An ast
for the relief of Thomas Jenkins and
Sons."
1 ' The Houfc of Reprcfentatives have
patTed a bill, entitled, "An ast for the
remiflion of the duties arising on the
tonnage of sundry French vessels, which
have taken refuge in the ports of the Uni
ted States" in which- they desire the con
currence of the Senate." And lie with-
drew
The bill last mentioned was read the fir it
time.
Ordered, That this bill pafa to the se
cond reading.
On motion,
Resolved, That on a motion made r.nrf
seconded to (hut the doors of the Sen:\te,
on the difcullion of any business which
may in the opinion- of a member, require
secrecy, the President (hall direct the gal
lery to be cleared, and that during the dis
cussion of such motion, the doors (hall
remain (hut.
Agreeable to the order of the day the
Senate resumed the confederation of the
report of the committee on the petition
of Conrad I.aub and others, refpefting
the election of Mr. Gallatin, to be a Se
nator of the United States.
Mr. Gallatin exhibited to the Senate a
written flatement of facts agreed to be
tween himfelf and the petitioners, which
was read—and after debate,
On motion,
Ordered, That the further considera
tion of the report of the committee be
postponed until to-morrow, and that in
the mean time, the statement of facts ex
hibited on the part of Mr. Gallatin, be
printed foi the use of the Senate.
On motion,
Ordered, That the second reading of
the bill "in addition to the ast for the
puniftimentof certain crimes against the
United States," as reported to be amend
ed by the committee, be the order of the
day for Tuesday next.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
Friday, Feb. 21.
The brllfent fcom the Houfeof Repre
fentativet for concurrence, entitled, "An
ast for the remiflion of the duties aris
ing on the tonnage of sundry French yef
fels which have taken refuge in the ports
of the United States," was read the se
cond time.
On motion,
Ordered, That it be referred to Mr.
Cabot, Mr. Burr, and Mr. Langdon, to
conlider and report thereon to the Se
nate.
The Vice President kid before the Se
nate a communication from the Secretary
for the department of War, ltating cer
tain defects in the ast parted the lad i'efiion
of Congress; entitled, " An ast to regu
late the claims to invalid pensions," which
was read.
Ordered that it lie for consideration.
Agreeable to the order of the dav the
Senate resumed the conlideration of the
report of the committee on the petition
of Conrad Laub and others, refpefting
the election of Mr. Gallatin to be a Se
nator of the United States, and after pro
gress—
On motion,
Ordered, That the further confiden
tion thereof be poisoned until to-mor-
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to'
morrow morning.
Mr. Fenno,
You are requeued to pu'v'ifii the fi.l
lowing remarks on an article from a cor
respondent in the General Advertiser of
Tuelday last, entitled,
" RELIGION OF FRANCE."
St. Bartholomew's, Wars, Murders,&c.
Mr. Bache's correspondent, I suppose, has
logic enough, and religion little enough,
to charge the crimes of mankind to the
score of religion itfelf. If any existing
society of men is to be described by the
abuse committed in the dreadful times of
civil or religious revolutions, where reli
gion unfortunately was complicated with
temporal interests, let that immaculate so
ciety Hep forward; let modern philosophy
itfelf fay, :f it dare, Munda Sum afanguinc.
Let the curious read the most partial his
torians, even Rapin himfelf, relating the
religious persecutions in England; let
them read a few sheets publilhed in the
year 1789, Dublin, by Amy as Griffith,
who was no papist ; let them read, if they
can without horror, the executions of most
innocent men, for the cause of religion
alone, as their sentences proclaimed, in
the days of Elizabeth. Let them ask
those penal laws that punilhed men before
they were bom, or before they were ab)e
to be guilty of a breach of the peace—
why men were to be robbed for not be
lieving what they could not ? Sir, Ido not
defend popery, for popery I understand
with Mr. Fox, to be the Catholic religion,
with such creeds as are made for us, but
not with thofc we hold ourselves. Popery,
in the firfl sense, I am convinced, is the
rankest of all heresies. The Catholic re
ligion, in the last sense, has done no harm,
and can do no harm to mankind any
where. Froteftants, with reason, appeal
to their do&rines to be judged by therr,
and why are not Catholics to be allowed
the fame privilege ? The liberal Protes
tant condemns perfection as wickcdr.cfs,
and so does the liberal Catholic. Certain
txclufiors of citizenship, See. are still in
force in some Catholic countries, and the
fame temper is to be found in some protec
tant countries also. The American Pro
testant grieves to find any of his brethren
poflefled by the spirit of persecution, and
in this point the American Catholic is of
the fame sentiment But the mafiacre
of Vaffi ! of—&c.
Sir, certain houses of Philadelphia arc
the chief places of resort of the people of
a certain nation, even on that solemn clay
when christians are emploved in divine
worihip. Mud the Catholic religion Lin
fwer for this also ? What reason is there,
or what jufbee, to throw in the face of the
Catholics'of America, crimes committed
hundreds of years ago, thousands and
thousands of miles off? What hiis the Ca
tholic, r.s well as the Protestant, to do
with such men, unless to condemn the
wickedness of the times, and frown on the
perpetrators of robbery and murder? for
fliame ! Mr. Bache's correfpordent, be
come liberal. You are now at least in
a land of freedom—let the air of America
impregnate your foul with sentiments
worthy of a man and of a chriftian. If
you think it lawful to cut off every head
that may conceive a federal government a
good one, at least leave your fellow citi
zens uninfulted, who conceive their reli
gion the true one. There ate laws in
this country which we observe and revere.
Many among us fought for the liberty to
make and enjoy them. When we trans
gress them, we {hall also transgress our re
ligion, and even then, it is the falfe Catho
lic, but not the Catholic religion that
ought to bear the blame.
Feb. 18,
Catholicus,
P. S. Catholic as I am, it is mx very
heart's creed, that the pcrfecutors of all reli
gious fecieiies ivhatfoerer, rot only defense
to be cut off'from the churches they cLiim lut
even that ly perfccuticn they arc ipjo fi3o
Separated from the spirit of Chrijl, as well
as ly aduliery or rr.urdcr. Were a Tnrl
to write a hiflory cf all the murders, wars,
prof-riptions, £sV. that hare leer fraSifd
and committed ly ch'rijlums of all dtnomiua
tions, and paint the of Chrifl in such
bloody colours, 'what in general would be achnfhan senfwer? The Mahometan's me
thod would oe the fame that is made use of
Oj ungodly deifis, to run down a lav which
reason alone compels them to confefs to be a
mofl ptrfia system of the most perfed mora -
Uty. Let your correspondent be candid, and
draw from tbefe principles the conferences \
thai are tnfepar&ble.
. i' r >. What may be a Frenchman's religion
mtoru, or in Philadelphia,
but little ; but malicious refeßions on a reli
gion, fludied and profeffed by a very numer
ous body of good American citizens, concern
me and many others very much. The cause
of liberty I admire in Frenchmen, but their
chrjhantty when depurated I envy no rtfi
pousfociety to enjoy, that has a taHe to be- I
tome pious a la mode de Paris.
Far the Gazette of the Unit id Stxtzs.
A BILLET.
Gracchus has labored hard to decypher
the card, or more properly the pack ol
of cards of A. E. that he might no
mortify his courtly fee!nigs by treating ;
;>ei foimance, which, from his manner mnl
be high in his own estimation, bv a con
temptuous silence. A. B. will pa,-do
him for writing upon paper, for lie dii
not know how t., become po.Tcfled of
card hug? erouvh to eon:a;'n even th:
morsel, m::ch lets h::d he extended it ti
the complimentary length of A. K'j re
p!y. The plebeian feelings of Gracchi!
will not allow him to do such violence 1,
liis judgment, as to compliment A. B
U])on his " luminous" produ&ion ; but h
will nevertheless, do him the juiticc to fa
that he has the wonderful Iwstru>ien
tality of shedding darkn'fr upon a sub
jett. Gracchus feels himfelf highly flat
tered, that A. B. has condccendinKl
granted in his card, what lie denied in h;
lirft labor. It certainly evinces candor
when a man will even " un-ivittingly,'
publicly renounce errors that he has pub
hcly averted. There being, then, no dit
ference ot opinion betwen A. B. and hin
(if A. B. meant any thing in his card
Gracchus will take a humble leave of hin
by aflving him two queflions—As he ha
reduced the IVMeiit from the whole t
a part of the sovereign for the peoole
Gracchus would be glad to know wki
part of the sovereign he is, whether th
uands or the feet, the nails or the teeth
He would be glad to be informed aifo o
the difference between opprobrior.t epithets
which. A. B. may fuppofc merited, an,
aoufe According to his explanation, i
could not b» confidereci as abuse, fhouh
Gracchus .call him a muddy headed crea
ture, where he only to aiTiire him at th
fame time, that he thought he defervei
't- If A. B. (houtd ileicend- from his dig
mty to aniwer these plebeian questions
Gracchus would feet himfelf enlightcna
by his answer, if he would deign to ac
commodate himfelt to vulgar comprehen
lion, and cor.fider sense, or intelligibilitv
(he will pardon this la!t word) in his re
ply, for a man of his figure need not bi
told,, that uncommon minds only, can lin<
an end to a circle.
CONGRESS.
Ifoufe oj Rcpnf niiUtvrr.
1 uefclay I'cbraary 25.
It ihuuld have been noticed in the mi
nutes or ytftcrday's proceedhigs of the
Houfc of Representatives—that the bill
making appropriations for the support of
Government for the year 1794, was read
the third time and pjffcd.
In the account of the Frefident'j mes
sage yefterdny, for " Biitifh Secretary of
' L3 te, read American Secretary of $iate~
On "iVednefday the 79th mil. when
the House were in committee of the whole
on the ftatc of the union, the fecound re
futation tor the protection of the com
merce cf the United State?, against the
Algerine corsairs, being under coniider
ation in the words following, viz. " Re
solved, 1 hat for the purpose of defraying
the cost of a naval armament, and the an
nual e:cpenfe thereof, after the day of
there (hall be levied, colls£ied and
paid upon all goods, wares and merchan
dize, imported into the United States, and
on which aduty < f 7 i-zper cent, is now
payable, an additional duty of one per
cent."
Mr. Dayton said that as on a former
day he had pledged himfelf to the rfoufc,
to offer an amendment to this resolution,
he was now prepared to do it, and (hould
take up very little of the time of the com
mittee in general prefatory remarks.
No member prefeut, he said, could be
'gnonurt that the article, faflimr a .i4er4bc
defenption of those fubjrtted to =, dutv
7 '-2 per cent, were for the most part
purchased, and used by the poorer class
of people who were less able to bear ad
ditronaJ burthens than any other—That
Indeed very many of those articles, and
ome of the most important of them were
eal necessaries, and could not be furnifh
ed in this country, but rault be brought
torn abroad, for a long time at lead to
come ; among which he particularly men
turned coarfc woollens, &c.
J hat under this imprefiion he took the
liberty to move that initead of laying- one
per cent, additional dutv, as the felcft
committee had reported, on those articles,
It might be reduccd to one half per cent
on Iv.
1 , Dayton laid he was aware that
I'? 2 rea ' l<^lo n of one half aS proposed by
him, would occasion a diminution in the
sum to be rH,fed of about 75,00© dollars
under that head of re vent: r, but that the
committee of the whole might fee and un
derbid his wholepTan and object, before
they decided upon a part, he would in
m« place read .to them what hr intended
to offer as a substitute to remedy that de
ncienc^.
.Here Mr. D. read a variety of fpecific
article which he Arid were either luxuries
, ,"' e ! nd con feq'jcntly consumed or used
by J hole who were moil able to pay the'
duties, or articles which our own artists
fr manufailurers couid supply f u f.
Scitnt quantity, especially if this small
additional protc&ion codd be held out to
them.
The principal of them were as follows,
VIZ.
; On boots 2 J cents per pair—On shoe.
and f ljjpcrs for men and women, c cents,
and those for children, 3 cents—On mil
' reaJ 7 made, on artificialflowerj/ea
thers, See. 5 per cent, ad valorem.
| On cast, flit and rolled iron, and
generally all manufactures of iron,
steel, tin, pewter, copper, brass, or
of winch eitFier of these metals is
the article of chief value, not being
otherwise particularly enumerated, '
(brass and iron wire excepted) cabi
net wares, carpets and carpeting
Leather tanned and tawed, and o- e - i
— nerally all manufactures of leader,
§ ° r of which leather is the article of
•tj chief value, not otherwise particu
•jj larly enumerated.
Medicinal drugs, except those
£ commonly used in dying. Matts and
-3 floor cloths, hats, caps and bonnets
-o P ever y fort, gloves, mittens, llock
" ; n S s » ftns, buttons, buckles, fheath
g mg and cartridge paper, all powders,
" perfumes, cofmctics and all dentifrice
preparations.
N On gold, silver and plated wares,
gold and silver lace, jewellery and
parte-work, clocks and watches, and
the following groceries, viz. cinna
mon, cloves, mace, nutmegs, ginger,
annifeed, currants, dates, figs,plumbs,
prunes,raifins,oranges,lemons, limes,
and generally all fruits and comfits,
olives, capers, pickles, oil, mustard
[in flour.
On all manufactures of cotton, or of
which cotton is the chief material, printed,
stained or colored, one and a half per cent! !
ad valorem.
The additioual duties which he had
proposed on tire articles he bad thus par
ticularly enumerated, would amount to
about 75,000 dollars, which would be the
diminution oceafioned by the reduction of
a half per cent, agreeably to his motion.
Mr. D. said that he hoped every mem
ber whether he favored or opposed a na
val armament to protest our commerce and
our coasts and harbors, would aid hi'm in
his endeavors to render the wars and
means for raffing the monies as little bur
thenfcme and as unexceptionable as pos
sible. If the resolution for building and
equipping the five frigates, ihould uhi
mately be negatived,. it by no means fol
lowed that the time spent in the difcuflion
and amendment of the resolution imme
d'afe'y u " der consideration, would be
uleleisly lpeiit. In any future call for
money, the ways and means which (hould
be on this occasion preferred, would pro
bably be rcforted to, and it was therefore
ot importance, that all ffiould unite their
exertions, to make the measure as unob
jedtjonahle as pofllblc.
So far as the encouragement of cur
own manufactures could be made to con
sist with the cncreafe of revenue, it was
certainly durable to effect it, and it was
witrt a view to bcth theft important ob
f jea, that he hid l'clected the artreks wfcch
he had enumerated. It was to be remem
bered Mr. D. added, that it was not now
a question whether they ftionld raise more
money, (thishadalready been determined)
but whether the encreafe of duties (hould
tall upon the neceflaries of life, or upon
articles of luxury, and such other articles
as the United States were capable of Ap
plying within themselves, independently
of foreign countries.
After considerable difcuflion which
turned principally upon the propriety of
affording tile protection and encourage
ment which was contemplated in the a
mendment in favor of the iron and of the
iron manufa£Uires of the United States,
it was moved and carried, that locks, hing
es and two or three other articles (which
It was said, COU J(J nol j, e manufaflured in
this country) ihould be excepted.
The motions of Mr. Dayton were then
agreed to, and were adopted as part of
the report of the committee.
PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 25.
PR OM CORREUPQNDNTS,
A correspondent finds no inconf/lency in
conduA of the Government towards
tiltprcfent Mimfler of France and hisprc
cicccjjor, as mentioned in Mr. Bache's pa
per of this morning-. The latter endeavor,
ed to involve this country in a war, oppof.
Ed measures of the government, and in
fulled the Chief Magistrate, The former
hat explicitly exprefled his approbation of
ths measures of the government, teftified
utmost refpeft for the Chief Magis
trate, and has disavowed all the proceed
ings of M. Genet which had a tendency
to war. It is a matter of course then that
the officers of the Federal Government,
and the friends of order, peace and tran
quility (hould manifeft a friendly difpofi
tionto the new Minister, whose language
ana conduct are so congenial with their
w s, as they reprobate the langeage and
proceedings of the cidcvant minister which
tended to disorganize the government, and
introduce all the honors of anarchy and
war. xhe officers of the federal govern
ment and the federal interest of this coun
ty, were never hostile to Franc, under
M. Genet s ministry, but they were hofti/e
to hu proceedings, which appeared to them,
calculated to ruin this country.
It .. natural that Spreaders of peace
mould (hew refpeft to a Minister who is
the mcjjmger of peace it is natural that
the officers of the government (hoald be
pleated with the appearance of one who is
particularly charged to express his appro
bation of the late meafure® of the govcrn-
the desire of his nation to main
tain them. This conduit implies no
change of principles, but an adherence to
a lyftem of peace.
While we abuse Briti'ffi publications for
their attempts to injure the cause of liber
ty, let us not by servile imitation fall into
the lame errors, let ns support a govera
me"t which >* founded on the affections
of the American people, and a model for
the nations of Europe—Let us support
and encourage the freedom of the press,
but let uspunifh its licentiouftiefs.
G> The paragraph preceding the above,
f c doubt wt diflated by the mojl friend
ly motives—but on refledion, our Corres
pondent -will fee fame reafont for its non
appearance in this paper.
OBSERFER—No. 111.
Mr. Fjnno,
The Observer, was much gratified, last
evening, at the New Theatre; on feeimr
so many of his fair country women grace
that resort of genteel company.—He ven
tures to assert, that in point of number,
elegance and beauty, such a collection has
not been seen in America ; at the fame
time he most Immbly requelh a pardon
from his Pair friends in Boston ; and aflcs
them to think, number is the only applica
ble word to them His fair friends who
are the fubjed of thefc remarks, will add
new claims to refpeft, by a ptrfea acqui
elcence, in equality, with those of Boston,
as to elegance and beauty-
To the performeis of instrumental mu
sic, the Observer, with great pleasure, re
marks, that they rifein his eftimition j
keep to your resolutions, my friends, play
uicii pieces ofmufic, as are allotted to you
by the managers, or yourfelre* ; the gal-
'ery will soon Le conti'nced of its propri-
Americans muff highly Mi(h the conr
phment paid to tbei. National cockade.
Mrs. Whitlock in the character of Bcl
videra, in Ven.ce Preserved, deserve. un
mingfed praifc. She pronounces the En
glKh language in its purity and perfiaion,
the Observer requcft, the attention of al I
le players, to her pronunciation and ac
cent : he thinks the model an excellent
Mr. Fennel!, in the chara&erof Pierre
I was truly great : The Observer hints to
him,a critical attention to musical cadence
c'pecia ,y at ail interrogation : Mr. Fen
nel! will certainly notice a hint, friendly
to his improvement.
Mr. Whitlock, in Priuli, filial his part
wjth much proprietv.
The obferyer was pleased, with the ex
hibition of the Pastoral Dance, a feconrf
time; but presume. Mr. Francis, will
keep in mind, that a repetition once too
often, is mtich worse, than twice toofpa
ring. V
Mr. Bat-.s n. tlx: charter of Sharp,
("1 the Lying Valet) did honor to hi'mulf
a an a£W; if Mr. Bates in other charac
ters, only proves equal to himfelf in this,
c - fl . J er P ronounc <* him as near a
nmffied afior, as projkr ambition can hope,
or rational expectation can wife.
Mr. Moreton, Sirs. Frances, S!i d Mrs.
Shaw, the Obfcrvcr recognized, with un
common fatisfea.on, as gaining by repe
tition upon public esteem ; and he is ex
tremely out in calculation, if a harvest of
- applau . fe 'toes not avait them.
1 he Obferycr, »happy to acknowledge
his great obligate to the managers for
exertions, to> afford rational am.ufc
ment, coupled with mental improvement.
He requests all those who are, :'n principle,
I 0 ( Pp0 ? d L to Theatrical entertainments, to
attend the New Tfeatfe once, and after
wards, on reflection, each lay his hand on
his heart, and fay, whether his morals
are depraved by it—.fay whether those
delicate and fine spun threads of his foul,
designated f>y his Maker, to heighten his
enjoyment, are not improved, and his heart
expanded with benevolence.
SHIP NEWS,
Arrived at New Tori.
Bh'g Columbia, Wolf, Bourdeaus
O , ®"®7' Bowe "' Amsterdam
Schr. Providence, Raifbeck, Halifax
Sally, Dunn, NorfolJc
t-apt. Dunn, on leaving the Capes of
Virginia, fa\v 5 fad of the fine enter the
Capes under French colours, and 2 armed
brigs from 10 to 24 guns.
CyDßAco,an Ode,and an "Extraß from
a pamphlet now in the press," to-morrow
The Debates on Mr. Mad fan's Re Muttons,
we hope tt> rtfume also at the fame time.
Other articles as fton as pojftble.
NEW THEATRE.
To-Morrow Evening, Feb. 26,
Will be performed,
A Comic Opera, called
Love in a Village.
Sir William Meadows, Mr. Moms
Juflice Woodcock, Mr. Bates.
Hawthorn, Mr. Darley.
Young Meadows, Mr. Marfliall
Eustace, Mr . Darley, jun.
J? 0 t d E e ', Mr. Franci..
Deborah Woodcock, Mrs. Shaw
Luanda, Mr». WamU.
Rofetta, Mrs. Marlhall,
Mad g e - Miss Broadhurft.
In Acl xjl, a STATUE SCENE and
DAA CE by the Characters.
Servants at the Statue—Mr. WarrclL
Mr. Bliflet, Mr. Rowfon,Mrs. Rowfon, '
Mrs. Bate9,and Mrj. Xfe Marque, See.
After the Optra, the
CALEDONIAN FROLIC.
To which Imil be added, a Comfdt, intivo-
Ads, written by the late David Garnet,
CALLED
The Guardian,
Mr. Hartley, Mr. Whitlock.
Sir Charles Clackit, Mr. Morris
Young Clackit, Mr. Finch.
Savant, Mailer Warrell.
Mrs. Rowfon.
Harriet, Mrs. Marshall.
f Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarter,
oi a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.
I'rvat Kefpuohco.JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY inform# hi* friends and
the public, Tint from the eiicouragen»eui
he ht» receivrd, Irom several icfpe&abie Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPF.R I.JNE —and would offer his leivices to
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidence
in hio» i and he allures thofc who employ him,
rha' their confidence fViall not he mifplaccd
hut it Ihall be his toiiiUnt endeavor, to pay the
ftrifi. ft attention to their best interest, in all ne
gotiations whatevrr. He has taken the Chamber,
in Siate-Street, over Mr. David 1 ownjend, Watch
Makei's Shop.——Where PUBLIC ShCURI-
TlhS, of all kinds, are bought and fold; and
where Commiflion Bufmefs of all kinds, will be
tranfiffed on reasonable I' rmi. HOUSt.S .md
VESSELS will be constantly exposed lor fclc, on
commiflion.
%* Cash paid for Salem, Providence, and
Portimouth BILI.S.
N. B. IF any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York, has any Pufwefs to tranfafl at BoJlfin,
in Paper Ne%pf>itions, he will be happy tt be em
ploye I on commijjion.
liwfton, Jan. 24, 1794*
lo be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the I ithday of April next,
at the house of John Thomson, in Perth-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY,
THE Lot contains eievtn actes, on which is
an orchaid of giafted apple trees, a well of
exccllcni water, a large ft«nc ofternyand a very
commodious ftablc and coach-house, and a great
quantity of the b*ft building (tones in the walls
of the houfc, which was formerly built for* the
residence ol the Governors of Ncw-Jcrfey. The
fuu.itioil ol this Lot is f« well known for its
lieaiibincfs and beautiful profpeft of the Rariton
river to the weft of the bay, and Sandy-Hook to
the eail, that a further defoiption i# unmcciTiry.
The conditions of sale will be, one third of the
purchaf money to be paul on the firft day of
May next, when a good and fuffiei- nt Deed will
be given lo thf putlftau'r, by Waltsr Ru
thbrfurd, Esq. Prrfidciit «f ihe Hoard of
Proprietors ol the Eastern Dwifion of New-
Jcrfey, anrt the remaining two thirds fatisUdo
rily ftcurcd in equal annual payments.
By order of th.- Hoard,
JAMES PARKER, Rafter.
Perth* Amboy, February 5,1794- aawtm
War Department.
January 3 cth 1794.
INFORMATION is he»et>y given toall the
military invalids of the United States,that the
luius to which they are entitled for fix months
rf 1 hen annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on Ihe sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Commiflioners of the Loans
within the dates refpcftivcly, under the usual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
mult be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpeftlve offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose petition they may claim.
By command of the Prefidrnt
of the Un'ted States,
H. KNOX,
Sect clary oj War.
The printers in the icfpcfttve ftaies are
rcqueftcd topublifh the above in their natffpa
pei* for the space of two months,
January 30,
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALI MY
M. Carey, No. 118 ,Higb-Jlrect,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Satings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the world,\
THIS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, a*
well as to all claflVs of people, merchants, me
chanic* and farmers. Such a reputation has thia
work acquired, that it has palled thro three im
pre (Hons in the cailein Hates, and many houtc
hojdcrs deem it so ufeful as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theii families. Paics sa.
February 4. «UI
Notice is hereby given,
r J' , HAT the lubfcribcr has been duly ap-
X pointed Administratrix on the estate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boftnn, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herielf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law directs—and all persons in
tirefted, are defind to take notice accord
i.igljr.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the Estate of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceafcd, are requeftcd to
exhibit the fame to the Subscriber, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who Hand indebted to said Eftata, are
r?ooe(ted to fettle with him immedtaitly; as the
Av4 of Limitation of Ast ions, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
ot'nerwife render it necelTary for him to com
mence suits again ft them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, Not. 13, 1793.
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requrited to inlert this in their
refpeftive newspapers, and forward their ac
counts for the fame, to J. M.
N O R R I S-C OU RT,
Back of the New Library, between Chefuut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carryiug on the bulinefs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
fur doors or window-fliutters,don* in the mult
elegant manner, and with dispatch. 11
Orders from the oountry will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
I ult Imported,
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
And now opening for 'ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No* 118, Market Jireet f
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following
NEW Annua] Jlegifter for 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 roll.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
KingviJle's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty,a collection of efTays
Varieof PrufTia's works
Calm observer—by Maekintofli
RufTell's ancient and modern Europe
LangJiorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extra&s of natural history
Saugnier and BrifTon's voyage
Rot lion's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerufalein delivered
Smellie's translation of BufFon
Berwick's hiftoiy of quadrupeds
Button abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vol*.
\V hi taker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
liulay's dtfeription of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on inafonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Net-Iter on executive power
Kifle* of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney'i ruins of empires
Travels
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and iinmateriaUfm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
I)e Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's deferiptton of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on pol tical justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's sketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's di&ionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufc's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip f id. &: IHd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders ©f the little world, called
man
Wallis on tlie prevention ofdifeafes
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruflla,Poland,&c.
Cox's traveJs into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&ice ef mid
wifery
Manning's practice of phyfie
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong 011 diseases of children
Oiiincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon'streatife on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's difTertations
London pra&ice of phytic
Bell's surgery
Cbaptal's chemistry
dim
FOR SALE,
By MATHF.W CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery:
Defined to exhibit in a new point of view,
its effc&s on morals, indvjlry, and the peace of
ociety. Some fatts and calculation! are offered
to prove the labor of jrtemc« to be much more
produQive than that oi Jlaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the nrcefiaiy conclusion, thai
flavary is impolitic as well as unjttft.
?Kici 35 Cents,
February 15,
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, Niw-Yoik.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, brgs leave to of
fcr his ferviceato his friends and others, in tht
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to faror him with their business, may depend
upon having it tranfa&cd with the utraofl fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
dther part of the United State;, will be ftridly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
Philadelphia, February 13, a 794-
PROPOSALS
For printing by Subscription,
A Work, to be entitled,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Pennfylvbnia State 'Trials.
THE want of fufficient information of the 1
state trials of Gieai-Britain in the early
periods of that government is now lamented :
Hi herto there hath been but one trial in the
state of Pennsylvania on impeachment : —and
heiealTo it is to be regretted, that, being neg
lected at the time, the public are now left with
out fufficient information on the fubjeft of that
trial, it is however in this work designed to ref
cue|what can be collected thereof from sources
of indifpuiaple authority, so that the fame (hall
be preserved from oblivion.
Another impeachment and the second is now
depending. An officer is charged by the late
Honfe of Reprelentatives, who hath for many
years been largely confided in by this state, and
hath long been at the head of the financial de
partment of the Tame, and it imports the citi
zens to know his conduit, and thecircumftances
which may be brought sot ward on his trial.
In this work the Editor will be careful to
state the facts, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers before
! the public.—With this view—
The following Terms are refpetifully
submitted to the Public :
I. The Work fball be printed in o&avo, with a
good type, on fine paper, and delivered to
i fubferibers at the refpe&ive places where the
fubferiptions are taken in, as soon as the work
(hall be compleated. '
11. As no conrjcfture can well be made, as to
the length of the present trial, the fir.e of tbe
volume cannot be ascertained at this time—
But the price (hall not exceed that of fomeof
the Uteft publications in this city.
I 11. It will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental circumstances that may occur during
the trial of John Nicholfon, X(quire, Comp
troller-General of this commonwealth, with
thearguments of counfrl on both frdes, together
with the articles of impeachment, and the
pleas and replications at large, the fcveral re
solutions of the two branches of the state Le
gislature, refpe&ing this impeachment, and
the final decision of the SENATE refpe&ing
that officer.
To which will be prefixed, as much as can be
colle&ed from authentic documents, of the im
peachment, trial, and aequital of the late Francis
Hopkinfon, Esquire, Judge of the Court o(
Admiralty for the state of Pennsylvania, during
the late war, never before pnblifhed.
No money will be required before the deli
\ very of the book,
Subscriptions will be received by Francis
Bailey, No. 116, High-ftrcet; Wrigley and Ber
riman, No. 149, Chefnuuftreet, and by the dif
ferent booksellers in this city; Jacob Bailey,
Lane after ; Yundt and Patton, Baltimore, and
by the Editor.
EDMUND HOGAN.
N. B. The price will be enhanced to non
fwbfcribers. Feb. 18. taw if
City Commiflioners Office,
Januaryl3o, 1794.
IN pursuance of a Refolvc of the Common
Council, dated the soth day of January,
1794, for dividing the City into five Diftn£b,
by line* drawn East and Weft, whereof each of
the City' Commiflioners it to take the fuperin
tendance of one of the foid Diftri6hj and to be
accountable lor the cleansing, good order and
regularity of the fame.
The Commifiioneri have accordingly made
the following arrangement for the prefer.t:
Dijlritt the \JI» Nathan Boys, to have the
charge of that part of the llreets, lanes and alley*
from Ccdar-fheet, to the north fide of Spruce
ftieet.
Dijlritt the 2d. Hugh Roberts, from the north
fide of Spruce-street to the north fide ef Walnut
flreet.
Dijlritt the 3J. Joseph Claypoole, from the
north fide of Walnut to the south tide of Hiwh.
street.
Dijlritt the \th. William Moulder, from the
north fide of High, to the north fide of Mulberry
street.
Dijlriß the- $th. Nicholas Hicks, from the
north fide of Mulberry, to the north fide of Vine
street.
F.xt' att from the Minutes,
JOHN MEASE, Clerl.
N B. The carriage way in Markeuftreet, it
under the charge of the Commiflioners generally,
for the prefcnt, the foot-waya on the north and
fottth fides thereof, are connedrd with the ad*
joining DiftriQs rcfpe&ivcly.
Excellent CLARET,
la hogl-ead* and in c»Ces of 50 bottles each,
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine j
MADEIRA
In pipes, hoglhcads and quarter eafks,
FOR. SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. tn, South Froaiaitrect.
i»».», 1794.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible (ituation,—»alio a Country Seat
wichin 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres o4
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size 01 convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
State* was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
Jamaica,^
/in AS for giving validity in this IJland it
Probates to be taken, by certain Officers
in the United States of America, of Dreds
to be there executed, and also to Exempli
fications of Wills there proved.
WHEREAS, since the separation from the
crown of Great-Britain of the late co
lonies, now called the United States of Ame
rica, great inconveniences have arisen to many
of his Majefiy's fubjedts occasionally residing
in those States, for want of a legal provision
refpeiSing the probates and acknowledgments
of deeds executed in the said States, and in
tended to operate in this island: For remedy
whereof, we, your Majefly's dutiful and loyal
fubjefh., the Lieutenant-Governor, Council,
and Aflembly of this your Majesty's island of
Jamaica, humbly beseech your Majesty that
it may be enadled ; Be it therefore enaded,
and it is hereby enabled and ordained by the
authority of the fame, That, from and im
mediately after the passing of this act, any
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed
whatsoever, which (hall be hereafter executed
in any of the United States of America, and
(hall be proved by a fubferibing witness, or
acknowledged by the party or parties, before
any of his Majesty's Consuls or Vice-Consuls
residing in any of those Statas, or before the
Chief Justice of any of the said States, or be
fore the Chief Justice or any of the Judges of
the Supreme Court of the laid United States,
and certified under the seal of any of the said
States, or the seal of the said United States,
(hall be, and the fame is hereby declared t«
be, as good and effectual in the law as if such
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed,
had been refpefiively proved oracknowledged
before a Judge of any court of record in this
island ; any law, custom, or usage, to the con
trary notwithstanding :—Provided always,
That in all cases wherein the right or property
of any woman under coverture is intended
to be conveyed, (he (hall be examined separate
and apart from her hulband, by the Judge
who attests the probate, and the said examina
tion (hall be certified in like manner as is pra*-
tifed in Great-Britain or in this Island.
11. And be it further enaAed by (he autho
rity aforcfaid, That the probate of any last
will and testament, taken before any officer
authorized to take probate* of wiHs in any of
the said States, and exempli&ed under the
; seal of the State where fuchprobate (hall hire
' been taken, (hall be, and the fame ia hereby
declared to be, as good and effe<flual in the
• law, as if fuch'probate had been taken before
the ordinary of this island j any law, custom,
; or usage, to the contrary in any wife not with
ftmding.
PaJJedtbe AJJembly this I*tb day of Novem
ber, 1793.
WILLIAM BLAKE, Spent,r.
I'aJJed the Council, this nth November, 1702.
G.ATKINSON, CI. Council.
I consent, ibis 6tb December, 1793.
ADAM WILLIAMSON.
Vera cofia extur. G. Atkinson, Sec.
*„* The American Printer# are requcftetf
to publilh thii ail in their fevcral newfpapen.
O" Propofalt having bten publijhed lafl
autumn, for continuing the Gazette of the
United Statei at an half weeily paper, in
conjunction with a daily paper, frequent ap
plication.i (pojlage unpaid) are nude bs per
fotu at a Sijlance for the former —but at the
termt proposed on that occasion were not com
plied with, the plan if an half weekly paper
it reUnquifbed.
C 5" At the Editor bat repeatedly been
• fubjeSed to pojlage on the Letlert of f erf on i,
who have in that way applied to purchase
the Fount of Long Primer which he hat
for fde —those who <wi/h to buy those typet,
are informed that the price it t<we>.ty cents
per pound, cajh—to be paid at their delive
ry—the fount weight about 2Joft v
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
.South Fourtki-Strtct.
m&th—rf