>.f tit Hnito
EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 52 of Vol. V.]
To the Militia Officers of Pennfylvanta.
$3" r I 'HE Officers of the First Division
-L of the Militia of the State of Penn
sylvania, are requested to meet at the Philo
sophical Hall, on Wednesday Evening, the
12th inftant —To receive and take into con
sideration the Report of their Committee on
the fuhject of the State Law, as it now stands.
Such other Officers of the Mititia of Penn
sylvania, as may be in town, are requested
to attend said Meeting; and fhotild any of
them be at the trouble of committing their
thoughts on this very important fubje£ to
writing, they will be gladly received and
duly considered.
These observations are intended to be laid
before a Committee of the Afiembly, who
appear to disposition to bring for
ward as perfect a System, as the Exiftirig
Law of the United States will poflibly ad
mit.
WALTER STEWART,
Major-General ift Division,
d^t.
Feb. 10.
nnH® Trufteesof an Academy,
JL or any individual wilhing toeimage a
per on to superintend the Education of yoijfh,
in the course of ftuHics usually adopted io
Academies, or any b r anch of business requ:r
ing similar qualification":, may open a com
munication w>th a perf'on willing to be em
ployed a few rear* (for a generou* compensa
tion) hv writing (letters to be post paid) to
Mr. John Fenno, Philadelphia.
Printers to the Southward irovld po/fibly
oblige fame of tk'i> friends, by injertivg the foregoing
& few tints i* their pipers.
• _ . « j xvl
February 8.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogl>cs»ds and in cases of 50 botlic* each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wirte ;
MADEIRA,
■111 pipei, hngfht-ads and quarter caflcs,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front ilreet.
Jan. s, 1794
City Commissioners Office,
January 30, 1794.
IN pursuance of a Kefolve of the Common
Coollcllj dated the aot'n day of January,
1754, tor dividing the C'ty into five Diftii&s,
by Huts drawn Eall and Weft, whereof each ol
the City Commiflioners is to take the fuperin
tendance of one ol the said Dillr-fls, and to be
accountable lor the cleansing, good order and
regularity of the fame.
The Commissioners have accordingly made
the following arrangement for the prelent :
Dijliifl the \JI. Nathan Boys, to have the
chaige of that part ol the ft reel .s, lanes and alleys
from G'dar-ftieet, to the north fide of Spruce
fticet.
Dijliifl the 2d. Hugh Roberts,from the north
fid. ol SOl ucG-ltrett to the north fide »l Walnut
ftre.t.
Dijlrifl the $d. Jofrph ClayooeCr, from the
north fide of Walnut to the louth lide of High
iheet.
Dijliifl the 4M. William Moulder, from the
nonh (ide oi High, to the north fide of Mulberry
flr<~ei
Difrift the sfh. N-cholas Hicks, from the
north lide of Mu-b' rty, to the north lide of Vine
ftrcet.
Ext'aflfrom the Minutes,
JOHN MEASE, Clerk,
N B. The carnage way in Markc Uft feet, is
under t lie charge ol the Coinmifli'>neis generally*
lor the prefrut, the foot-ways 011 the north and
south fides thi ieof, are connc&ed with the ad
joining Diilntis rvfpeftively.
War Department.
January 30th 1794.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military invalids of the United States,that the
luins to which they are entitled for fix months
of their annual pen (ion, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on ine sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Commissioners of the Loans
within the ftatea refpeftivcly, under the usual re
gulations. •
Applications of executors and administrators
mull be accompani(d with legal evidence of
their refpeftive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose peufion they may claim.
By commano of the Prefidenl
of the United S'atr*,
H. KNOX,
Secretary oj War,
(fTT The prinleri in <he refpeftive llatci are
rcqucfted co publish ihc above in ihcirnewfpa
p, is for ihe (pace of iwb mon-hi.
Januaiy 30.
To be Let on Freight or Charter,
or for Sale,
The Ship
HERCULES,
Samuel Chauncy> Master,
to be ready in a frw davs >" receive
a Cargo on board, at Hampton Road, in Virginia ;
is an American bottom, burthen 500 tons, pierccd
tor 20 guns, quite new and well fitted.
Apply to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
Phi lac! el oh 1 ,K" •<nly4. I~q 4.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an el'giMe fituation,—al'o a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
'and, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by nvrny in the vicinity
the city, in fi?e or convenience.
For terms appy to the printer.
Janua'y 23.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
jrfn elegant AJfortmcnt of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY £3* ftu CUTLERY,
Which they will difpote of on the moil rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
iVtt, and every thing in the gold and filvei
way, done a< nfual.
December 24
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Coffee-Houfe of this
City :—
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he ha« THIS
DAY opened a HOThL in Shippen-Slreet, be
tween Third and Fourth-Street s, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly improved, and is now
very commod ous ; where he has furniftied him
felf with the bett of LIQUORS, and will fur
nifh a TABLE for Paries, with the best provi
sions the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
Ihortt ft notice. From his long experience in
this line of business, he flatten himfelf he shall
be able to give fat'sfa&mn to all who may ple<ife
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29,1794,
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public, That from the encouragement
he has received, Irom several lefpedfable Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his services to
ail 'hose Gentlemen, who can .place confidence
in him ; and he adores those who employ him,
tha' their confidence shall not be misplaced
but it (hall be his endeavor, to pay the
ftri&eft attention to their best interest, in all ne
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber,
in State-Street y over Mr. David Town fend, Watch
Makei's Shop.——Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of all k:nds, are bought and fold ; and
wheie Commiflion Business of all kinds, will be
tranfa&ed on reasonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be constantly exposed lorfale,on
commiflion.
Cash paid for Salem, Providence, and
Portsmouth BILI S.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or %
New-York, has any Business to tranjatl at Bojlon,
in Paper Negotiations, he will be happy to be em
ployed on commijion.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE BY
M.Carey, No. 118 yHigh-Jlreet^
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sitings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the lejl sense in the world.
THIS little book is written in a ft*lc altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as 10 ail clafles of people, merchants, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
woik acquired, that it has passed th o three im
prcflions \n the caftern states, and many houle
holdet s deem it so ufclul as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theii families. ■ Prick zs.
February 4. dlt
dem
AND
Tuesday, February ii, 1794.
m&th—tf
mw&ftf
BOSTON, February I
From a Correspondent,
Echo re-echoed.—ls it not furprifxng,
that the "zealous Honf.stus is not supported by
bis Brother Senators, when the great objefls
of the lying trade areJo peculiarly advantage
ous to the faction of thisJlate —Unltfs this im
portant branch is supported, the remaining
fadion of this country mufi soon become annihi
lated, and the sons of sedition in particular
fall a facrifice to the infamous policy of the
American nation. "Go on, thou dijinterejled
Pat riot, " and though the voice of our Sena
tors in vindicatin of your want of principles,
is not heard within the walls of the State-
House, and though you never yet was able to
obtain a vote in that assembly, yet be ajfured,
that all men of desperate fortunes and charac
er, will ever 'express their warmejl acknow
ledgemen for your laudable and independent
exertions.
PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 11.
FROM COR RESPONDENTS,
The French Minister fays, the cause of
France is the cai'.fe of America. Then
we Americans make free to tell them,
they use our cause very ill. They dis
grace it by their cruelties—they endanger
it by their extravagant wildnefs. . But
the cause of France is not the cause of
America. It is a filly party flourifh to
make our people favor a war. America
grounded her cause on reafon—{he did not
stain it with the blood of vifiims wantonly
flied, judicially mocking justice with her
own forms.
If is true, the more natious with free
orderly mild governments, the better
i-ven if France ftiould trifle away or drown
her liberty in blood, we know how to
'make a better use of our own.
A man just arrived from the Moon,
thinks the present session of Congress will
be very short, as sundry combinations as
suming the names of Republican, Demo
cratic, the people, &c. &c. render the
Representative body unnecessary—in fact
it would be imperium in imperio.
It has been urged as an abatement of
the salutary effects arising from the opera
tion of the general government, and draw
ing more closely the bands of union be
tween the states, that the natural courfeof
human events in comunftion with the en
terprizing spirit of our citizens, would
have produced the present flourilhing situ
ation of our country —so that too much
is ascribed to the agency of government.
Without recurring to the state of affairs
previous to the adoption of the new con
flitution j it is fufficient to every patriotic
purpose, that those who are not disposed
to credit the adminiltration as the instru
ments of our public prosperity, yet ac
knowledge the fact. Whatever the cause,
such being the cafe, let all unite to pre
serve the blessings we enjoy, and not wan
-Ber into wilds of fancy aud theory, in
search of precarious advantages, left we
let go a " ccrtainty for an uncertpinty" or
by " grasping the Shadow, lose the Sub
stance."
CONGRESS
House of Reprefentat 'tves.
January 24.
In committee of the whole on Mr. MaJifon's
refolutioni.
Mr. Tracy's speech continued.
It is said the British government has
broken the laws of nations, by the inter
ruption of our trade to France : The fa£l
is, Great-Britain has said France is in
liege, oj is blockaded, France has laid the
fame. Upon this statement, what is the
law of nations ? That neutral veflels (hall
not have intercourse with luch blockaded
or besieged place. The facts are, the En
glish have taken the cargoes of our vessels,
Jfefafes
[Whole No. 510.]
under these circumstances, and in every
instance paid the value of the cargo, at
the port of destination ; the French have
taken all our cargoe« bound to any port
of their enemies, and have directed, that
a committee of appraisal Jhall be appoiut
ed, to appraise, and pay for them.
And in all instances of wanton treat
ment, spoliation, or making our veflels
prizes, the Britifli Government have made
the moll ample promises of redress, con
tained in our Miniftcr's official informa
tion. This is a situation, which I ac
knowledge is an evil, but ought not a
neutral nation to expetl some evils of the
kind, especially when we conne& with it,
the almost unavoidable imprudences, and
I may add, cHmcs of our own people, in
violating the stria line of duty, which
must be, and always is marked out, for
neutral nations ? State it in its worst point
of light, and negociation and remonftrancc,
(hould precede any decilive governmental
act.
If our trade is flourifhing, and under
no reftriftions by the English, more than
she imposes on other nations, where is
the ground of revenge, against Great Bri
tain ? And more especially, when the fa£t
is inconteftible, that we have more favor,
in our trade wirh her, than is extended to
any nation,
But fuffer me to alk, why treaty ii
made the basis of difcriminatioft ? I can
hitherto find no man, merchant, or other
can slate any benefits which we (hould
gain by a treaty. In all treaties the
strongest nation will always make its own
conftruftion ; and the weakest nation may
hate the benefit of right, but wanting
strength to enforce that right, its voice
is not heard in explanation of treaty.—
Our commercial situation presents itfelf
to us in so much infancy, the eventi of a
month may produce such surprizing ad
vances, as has been stated by a gentleman
from MafTachufetts, (Mr. Dexter,) that
a treaty of good appearances now, may
speedily be an evil. Betides, a treaty con
nects us with European policy, and I
feel a strong desire to abftraft the United
States fiom all participation with the la
byrinth of European policy. What has
been the advantage of ou« treaties alrea
dy formed ? That with I con
clude will be cited as the best.
Regenerated France, has told us, that
their government when this treaty was
made, had no good intentions to the U
nited States, or at least, no views of re
ciprocating benefits fairly : I suppose the
meaning of this is, that in making the
treaty the government of France confut
ed her own interest, and paid not much
attention to outs, yet this treaty was at
firft highly applauded ; but let it be tested
by the benefits a&ually received. In con
sidering it in point of adtual benefits, I
should be glad to find them and dwell up
on them, without bringing into view,the
harm it has done us : but no benefits ex
ist. Does the treaty protest onr proper
ty in seeking its markets, where neutral
nations have undoubted rights, any more
than the law of nations ? England has vi
olated the latter, and France the former.
I lay out of the question, the group of
evils, which seemed to result from this
treaty the lad summer, the evident dan
ger of a war, prevented only by the con
duit of an unparalelled executive, and
many other disadvantages of this treaty,
becaufethe unexampled tituation of France
may have produced many consequences,
which will not form general ground of ar
gument, and because those fubjecU have
been very fairly stated by a gentleman from
Virginia (Mr. Lee.)
One trait, and that which was consi
dered as the best in this treaty, was this,
all property was to follow the bottom in
which it .was found. Friendly bottoms
made friendly eargo, and an enemy's bot
tom, made prize of the cargo. The law
of nations is, to discriminate always, so ai
to mak prize of enemy's properly, find it
where you may. Regenerated France hatbc-n in the conflant ast, under fan&ion
of this treaty of making prize of all pro
perty belonging to'citizens of the United
States, found mi Englifii Spanish, Poitu
guc'.r, Aullrian, Dutch and Pinflian ves
sels, I mean ii.ice thofc nations have been
at war with her; and what do we gain ?
It cannot operate in our favor any further
than to favc French property to them, ii
found in our veflels, it we had treaties of
a i-milar kind with the world. So thai
this kuid of treaty is uncommonly circum
itrmeed inctecd, wc can gain nothing but
a proteflion for our friend's property j
but loft directly our own : and we never
fca'n be in a filiation to gain unless we
pre-fuppofc war, which I hope we may
avoid ; certainly we are not as liable to
W»T, as the nations in Europe, who are
generally in war 3 or 4 years in every 7 :
of eourfe this trait in treaties is no very
inviting one to us. If treaties are formed
in the common stile, that is, place the na
tion treating', on the balls of the moll fa
vored nations, every one can diicern, it
amounts to little, it' any thing, more than
complimentary language of eourfe.
One gfcat object of these resolves is,
to effect a treaty with Great Britain, and
we arc told in the fame breath, that Great
Britain is in a habit of breaking, not on
ly the law of nations, but iolemu treaty.
But we are told a free trade or rather a
trade on principles of more reciprocity is
to be obtained by these regulations : And
that France gives us that reciprocity, and
of course, we ought to withdraw our
trad.- from the Englilh, and give it to
France. If the markets of France, and
the benefits of trade in her ports, exceed
those of any other nation,our trade will go
there of itfelf if not,why force it ? In this
part of the argument, I request the liber
ty of treating both Fiance and England
merely aa commercial nations, for if com
mercial benefits are not found in the trade
of tv.-o nations, I very much doubt the
Continuation of the trade, from princi
ples of fiier.dfhip.
What faVors d:> we receive from France,
which will juitify such an exertion to [fti
down her rival, and build her up t Our
trade is at present under no very auspi
cious circumllances with France; even in
the bell of times, a merchant having ef
tabhihed his correfpundence there on the
mod favored footing, when he sent his
cargo, could bills for one third of
the amount, and they would be honored ;
the remaining two thirds, after fold, the
American merchant would be advised he
might drew for, but no interest allowed
for the time the French merchant held
the property ; but if the amount of bills
diawn at tirft, exceeded the third part
of iaies, interest v.-as charged. The Eng
lilh merchant, would honor his American
correfpondant'i bills, when accompanied
by his bill of lading only, for the whole
amount, and cargoes have often been
purchaled and the iofuranct, wages, and
finding of the ship, been paid, out of the
avails of her cargo, thus anticipated by
bills, before the voyage. This course of
trade, as praclifcd by the two nations,
needs 110 comment. Are the fabrics of
the French better than tjjie English ? Is
this a proper time to depend upon France
for our articles of clothing, when (lie is
eonvulfed to her center by a war ? And
cnn any man suppose, the column elta
bl i(lied in Lyons, sacred to Libert}-, is
any more favorable to her manufacturers
than if no such column had been there,
and her manufactures were increasing in
fteadof diminishing ? Does the govern
ment of France admit us into her Weft-
Indies, with any favor peculiar to us ?—-
The ast opening her Weft-Indies, was
no more for us, than the Briti(h ast is
against us, the fact is, neither of them
cared for us, they each did what they
thought would best promote their own
interest.
■ If these regulations are to unshackle
p'.ir trade, why not leave it unfliackled ?
The fetters are only changed from one
fide to the other, and France stamped up
on them iuiiead of England.
'l'he cirenmlbnce of heavily taxing
cir trade to Great Britain, for the fake
of dri\ing it to France, is a proof that
it enjoy* more freedom where it is.
If it be true, that we injure ourselves
in the firft instance, by these reitrictions,
although Great Britain deftrves punifh
uient, I have said we Ihould be cautious
how we facrifice ourselves to a principle
of revenge : But it may be worth enqui
ry, how much it is probable we can in
jure Great Britain ?
It is said Great Britain depends upon
the United States, for the bread of her
manufacturers and therawmaterials which
employ them.
!t ought to be remarked here, that a
principal complaint against Great Britain
is, that (he prohibits our bread-ftuff, and
this is a fact, except in tim.-s of scarcity.
One would think to hear the declarations
in this house, that all men were fed at the
openings of our hand, and if we (hut
that hand, the nations (tarve, and if we
but (hake the fid after it is (hut, they die.
This language, to fay no more of it, will
prove ounorigin to be British and that
not long ago, for the fame gentlemen fay,
the British nation is proud in theextreme.
It is well known the Dutch are in titaty
with us, and of eourfe are to be favoured
by the third resolution, which places all
nations in treaty with us, on a footing of
lower tonnage : It is likewise known that
the English have as much ascendancy over
the Dutch as propriety would dictate
What would these reftri&ions do then, at
bed, but (liape the eourfe of our trade
through Holland ? Our trade might per
haps come more from the Texel than the
Thames, but the names would colillitute'
the chief difference.
Spain and Portugal, in Europe, and
their other dominions, if once called up
on by necefiity, can raise bread ftuff to an
unlimited amount. And if werefufeour
provisions to the Weft Indies, would not
Great Britain thank us, for the bounty
we should give, in that very ast of denial
to the Canadian country, which file is so
rapidly filling, even with ourown citizens?
The provisions of every kind, which may
be raised there, no man can limit with any
kind of certainty. But cawiot Great Bri
tain retaliate, arid distress us in a commer
cial war ? I will not enlarge upon this, it
has already been shewn, that Great Bri
tain can retaliate with ten-fold advantages.
It is said although (he can injure us in
part, (he will fuffer in the greatest degree
and that our fufferings will be spread near
ly over the whole community, each will
bear a part, but Great Britain will fuffer
in one entire class of citizens, her manu
facturers. It will be but a poor consolation
to our farmers at large, when they find
themselves fufFcring, to inform them, that
a very innocent set of men, the manufac
turers of Great Britain are fuffering much
more than they do ; and if they (hould
clamour against government, it would be
an unfatisfaftory answer to them, that
there was a greater clamour, and even mob
in England.
(To be concluded in our next.J
For the Gazette if the United States,
THE •wordrabble gives offence to some
persons to whom it i'eems the atrocious
deeds of the French give none. Murder,
in the name and in mockery of justice, is
palliated, while any marks ofdifguft or fear
of the idleness, ignorance and wickedness
of those who are as ready to perpetrate as
to approve these horrors, is condemned.
The paragraph writer in the General Ad
vertiser of Friday last, should know that
the word rabble is used as properly and as
boldly in the cafe he alludes to, as the fort
of people described by it are now wickedly
and deftruftively employed in other coun
tries.
Lord George Gordon's mob was a
rabble. The murderers of Paris are a
rabble. Those whom vice, ignorance,
idleness, and the rod of despotism, have
driven from the just rank of men, are a
rabble. Europe is full of rabble, and the
overflowings of their multitudes have more
or less tainted the healthy mass of our
large towns. Such are the men who
were ready to mob for privateering.
The industrious and peaceable poor are
not rabble. Few, very few American
born, deserve that name. The means of
subsistence and the means of knowledge,
are too general to permit the degradation
of our native citizens to such a state.—
The paragraph writer may praise the prin
ciples of such persons as much as he may
choose—he may ttep in between them and
their proper description. But he will
find it no easy matter to set them on
Philadelphia is not Paris. It is more in
his power to puff the glories of distant as
sassinations, than to find a proper number
of pike-men to perpetrate them here
Ambitious knaves, men loaded with debts
and infamy, become formidable, when
they put theirtfelves at the' head of a rab
ble, whom they train to the practice of
vice by the hypocrisy of more virtue than
other men—whom they ripen for ar.irchv,
by making all government fufpefted, and
all rights but those of violence and licen
ciouluefs, odious. Not one of our great
towns is without such a party, and fucli
leadersi The body of our citizens, and
our country people, are of a very different
fort. Hippily the rabble of America is
infinitely out-numbered j but the Corps of
officers to lead them, and the principles
and objects to bring about a date of what
the Jacobins term sovereign infurretiion and
permanent revolution, are already a» com
plete in this country as in France.
A FARMER.
For the Gazette of the United States,
Some Oifervations on the S>u-Jiion —Have
Governments a right to deprive a Citizen
or Citizens of life ?
GOVERNMENTS are greater or les
ser bodies of people, united for their mu
tual security, and convenience—the pow
ers which those Governments poflefs, must
be formed from the powers or rights,
which individuals in their feperate capaci
ties pofiefTed, a part of which being given
up for the protection of the reft, form, or
compose all the powers which Govern
ments can rightly poflefs—No commuity
or body of people can poflefs rights, or
powers, which the individuals who com
pose that community did not, on entering
into the social compadt, poflefs individual
ly. A, cannot convey to B, the planta
tion of C, because it is not his—neither
can any man convey to Government, a
right in his own life, because that ligfct
is not at his disposal, much less can he
convey the life of his fellow-citizen j if
this principle can be established, it will be
clear, that communities cannot poflefs a
right to deprive its citizens of life.
Man has not a right in his own life (to
dispose of it) appears to me, for the fol
lowing reasons:
I ft. It is contrary to divine command,
as it is no where expressed in Sacred Writ,
but abundantly denied.
2d. From that natural fear of death,
and love of life, implanted in us, for the
belt of purpofcs.
3d. From that nnivevfaldifapprobation
which suicide has met with among civi
lized man, who have endeavored as much
as pofiible to suppress the practice, by stig
matizing the memory of the dead, and
cautioning the living.
It appears then that God, nature, and
man, have (few accepted) discouraged,
and denied man's power over his own life.
If therefore the powers which govern
ments poflefs, are formed of the powers
which individuals give up—
But individuals possessing no power to
give up, or throw their own lives into the
common flock.
Government can possess no power to dis
pose of the lives of its citizens.
The life of man is in a similar situation
in my view with the rights of conscience
—beyond the reach of any tiling but Ty
ranny.
From the American Daily Advertiser. s
Mejfrs. Dunlap iy Claypoole,
ONE of your Correspondents, who
had a great esteem for the late Speaker of
the State Senate, is extremely gratified
with every mirk of refpedt which is {hewn
to his Memory :—SSch he must consider
the formal visit of condolence which (he
hears) has been made to Mrs. P. by the
Gentlemen of that Body who fervcd with
him in Legislation—a circumstance as fa
vorable to his reputation as to theirs ; —
for what could better prove'the reality of
a liberal and generous mind, than the free
homage thus paid to the virtues of their
deceased Colleague, by men with whom
he was not unfrequently at variance in
important Legislative questions, and whose
tenor of political conduit differed materi
ally from his own.
From the Connecticut Courant.
Meflrs. Hudson and Goodwin
Mr. John Fen no, Editor of the " Ga
zette of the United States," ha 9 printed
in his News-paper, some verses, which he
pretends were presented by the carrier of
" the Connecticut Courant," to your
customers. It is not a little surprising,
that a Printer (hould profefs to reprint
the .writings of other people, and at the
fame time take upon himfelf the talk of
altering these writings at his pleasure.
Mr. Fenno in this in (lance, has not only
omitted several lines, without informing
mankind of the fact, but has made an al
teration totally fubverfire of the writer's
meaning, and in direct oppofkion to his
fentimcnti. Whatever Mr. John Ffnna
may think on the fubjeft, the writer of
the New-year verses, coniiders San)uel
Adams, as having little claim to the cha
racter of Patriot. He therefore is not
obliged by the alteration. Nor does he
view the trar.fafh'oil as affording any very
convincing proof of Mr. Fenno's modesty.
The bufineis of a critic, generally requites
greater talents, than commonly fall to the
share of the Editors of News-papers. This
is not the only inllance of similar condutt
in that gentleman, which has fallen within
my notice. I think he will do well to
omit republifhing entirely j or to omit in
serting his own impertinent and nonsensical
alterations, in the writings of perfon3,
with whom he is altogether unacquainted,
and of the merit of which he is an indif
ferent judge.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
October 22.
A citizen, deputed from the popular
society at Moulin, was admitted to the
bar, and said, " Citizen Legillators, I
come to announce the triumph of reason
over fanaticifm throughout the depart
ment of L'Allier. The Bilhop of Mou
lin now officiates with a a red
cap, instead of the mitre and croller. The
dying are comforted, and not frightened.
Upon the gate of the church-yard one
reads this infeription—" Death is but an
everlafling Jleep."
" The people are convinced, that if
the fall of Kings is the foundation of Re
publics, the fall of priests can alone com
pleat Liberty. Aristocracy is expiring
in our department ; the traitors, the male
volent and fufpefted ' persons, are under
arrest."
The orator concluded with depositing
upon the altar of the country a goldea
cross enriched with precious (tones, and
several marks of gold and silver extracted
from the statues of the ci-devant faints.—
Applauded, and the offering accepted.
Ban ere, in the name of the committee
of public welfare, made a report ret'peft
iug the supplies of provisions, at the con
clusion of which he proposed that the fol
lowing principles should be decreed.
1. That the territorial productions are
a national property.
2. That all real or immovable property
belongs to the state.
3. That the revolution and liberty are
the firft creditors of the citizens, and that
the Republic in all purchases ought to have
the preference.
October 24.
Tiie Procurator Syndic of the district
of Tonnerre acquainted the Convention,
that he had iflued an order, forbidding
the future celebration of religious ceremo
nies on Sundays, and commanding that
these ceremonies Ihould be celebrated on
the last day of each decade. He request
ed that this order (hould be communicat
ed to the other di&rifts.
The Convention passed to the order of
the day, on account of the article in the
confutation, allowing the free exuicife of
all the forms of religion.
The national commissioners at Bour
deaux informed the Convention, that the
city was at length firmly attached to the
Republic. The republican army made
their entry in the midst of the acclamati
ons of long live the Mountain, and the
forced congratulations of the Ariftocats.
The commissioners also dated, that as fooo
as they were informed of the troubles of
La Lozere and Aveyron, they sent a co
lumn of the republican army to Rhodes.
This column had received orders to adopt
the fame conduct as the republican a my
in La Vendee—to burn the woods, ca(llt"s
and other habitations of the rebellious
Royalists,
NoTember 15
Barrere announced, that the commis
sion of provisions had already given a
grand movement to all the parts of its ad
miniilration, and that it had already tak
en measures for saving provisions and for
supplying the fortrdfes.
He proposed 4 decrees
By the firft, Citizens {ire desired not to
refufe complying with requisitions, and to
make several fort 3 of paltry.
By the second, the fortrefies *tre to be
provided with fait meat ; no frefh meat
will be fuffered to ehter but for the fei '/ice
of the sick.
By the third, the miniflers of Mariheand Foreign Affairs, are bound to trans
mit to the convention a ftatemcnt of the
foreign Ihips which hive entered into the
ports of the Republic, and of the quan
tity of their cargoes in raw materials.
By the fourth, the Convention grants
the commiilion the use of a particular
sounter-fign.
November 17,
Ptieur, representative of the people,
wrote from Pantivl, dated the 13th inft.
that he \tfasgoing to the relief of the de
partment of the coasts of the North,
threatened with an invasion of the rebels.
I have left behind me, Jaid he, only the
companies de Veterans, and de l'Efpoir
dc la Patrie, all the other citizens having
advanced to Dinant. 1 expect this night
to receive intelligence from our armies. I
am going to asp.st in the deftruftion of the
banditti, who I hope will not this time,
efeape the avenging steel of the republi
cans, who pursue and surround them on
all fides. The levy of the young citizens
of the firft requisition, has been peaccably
made ; in almoll 3I! the diftritls it is near
ly compleated. The young men of the
country, wait only for the end of their
labours, to range themselves under the
ftandardsof liberty.
Thuriot read the plan of a decree ref
pe£Hng Labarre, which was adopred as
follows:
1. The sentence pronounced by the
Parliament of Paris on the sth of June;
1776, against Labarre and Etalon, called
de Moreval, confirming the sentence of
Abbeville, past on the 28th of February
preceding, is annulled.
2. The memory of Labafre and Eta
lon, called Morevalj the victims of super
stition and ignorance, is restored.
3. Their heirs are authorized to take
polTeffion of the property which belonged
to them.
4. In cafe it has been' fold, a sum equal
to it (hall be paid to the said lieirs from
the national treasury.
Barren*—" Calas was alio the victim
of fanaticlfm ; why is not he included in
the dccrce which you have pmTed ? It was
priests and ecclesiastics, known under the
titles of white, blue or black penitents
who fanaticifed the parliament, already
fanaticifed enough—and induced it to pafa
such an unjnft sentence, so well known by
it# objeift, and by the strong remonstran
ces made againfl it by the philosopher of
Feniey. 1 move, therefore, that you pass
a decree rcfpefling Calas, and that to do
honor to our new manners, you will cause
a column, with the following inscription
to be erected on the spot where Calas was
executed : " The National Convention—.
to Nature—to paternal love."—Applauf
cs.
The latter pan of Bafrerc's motion was
decreed.
UNITED STATES.
BOSTON, February I
Extra 3 of a letter from Liverpool, dated
Nov. 8, to a gentleman in this town, re
ceived via. Lonaoni
" Your fliip with all the Americans in
port is now taken up to go to the south
ward, in order to take a freight back here,
which prevents my (hipping your order,
and I find it is impoflible to ship it very
soon, unless some vtliel (hould arrive with
positive orders to return immediately to
your ports, as all veflels are going south
ward, on account of fitch advantageous
freights being offered,"
Mr. Seymour, we are happy to hear,
has compleatcd the likeness of the late
Governor HANCOCK, much to the fa
tisfaftion of every connoHTeur, who has
seen it. The face, which he delineated
lajl, is pronounced as elegant a specimen
of this admirable art, as has ever been ex
hibited to the infpeftion of the American
public. A liberal fubfeription has ap
peared for the encouragement of this young
and [we may truly fay] innate Genius.
No amateur of the fine arts, it is hoped,
will withhold lfls name frcm the catalogue.
From the ( Bojion) Mercury.
Mr. Young,
The National Aflembly of France hav
ing taken proper noticp of Genet's conduit,
it appears perfectly iinneceffary to fay any
thing more about the man ; I therefore
leave him to " cover himfelf with the man
tle of mourning," aud (hall only observe,
that notA'ithftanding theJlrange conduit
of Genet—yet among ourselves are to be
found, men so 101 l to the peace and hap
pinefs-of our countiy t who on every occa
iion have atttempted to juftify him, but as
thele men happen to be unfortunate
SEEKERS for offices, they will manccu,
vre, and like the drowning man, they will
catch at straws.
Upon the adoption of the Federal Con
stitution there were offices of great public
tmft to be filled, but unfortunately, there
being more candidates than offices, the
OUTS were difcomfited; and ever/nice,
these OUTS Have been lello-wing and
bawling against LARGE SALARIES,
BANK AND FUNDING SYSTEMS,
FOREIGN LOANS, INDIAN
WARS, &c. and they have even added,
that if the money which has been unneces
sarily hid out for PACK SADDLES,
&c. had been appropriated to the building
of Frigates, we might now have had a
N Avy, fufficient to protect our commerce.
Several eledtioncermg periods having
pafied, which permitted these men to re
main where they are, their croaking and
their barking began in some measure to
slacken, but upon a thick cloud's gather
ing in the call, which threatened to reach
our weftcrn heinifphere, they again took
courage, and itill hoped that the fcafon
would be propitious to their views—Ge
net was the burtheu of their song, with
arrogance in the extreme they called
themselves the only republicans, and with
an impudence equal to their arrogance,
they dared to I tamp men with the charac
ter of enemies to liberty, who had fought
to obtain it, and this merely becaafe
they were inimical to antifederalifm, to fo
reign influence, to privateering and to
war, and were friends to the peace and to
the happiness of America.
I love France, Sir, and wish the nation
FRFE, but I love my own coUfitry bet
ter ; unhappy for her that ih hef bosom
so many rejiltfs Jpirits reside ; men, who
to answer their own paltry purposes, are
perpetually endeavoring to disturb her do
mestic quiet.—The HORRORS OF
WAR every good man must deplore,
and it should be our earnest prayer to the
PRINCE OF PEACE, that he would
long preserve us from them—if, however,
by the artful and perjidious condudt of any
nation we (hould be driven into a war, I
pray God that we may be united in our
endeavours to maintain the honor of the
American flag, and that character in arms
to which America is so juflly entitled.
Equally an enemy to despotism and to
anarchy, I wi(h the period max arrive,
when " GENUINE LIBERTY AND
EQUAL RIGHTS" (hall be the por
tion of every nation, and when the colours
of none ftiall be unfurled, without this
Heavenly motto is enftamped upon them.
A REPUBLICAN.
PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 11.
We hear that the Senate of tlie United
States have agreed to consider the report
of their committee on Mr. Gallatin's
election, to-morrow—and have Resolved,
That the of the Senate be opened,
ana continue open during the difcuflion
upon the contested election of Albert
Gallatin.
Exports or Pennsylvania.
Dollars.
For the entire year ending
on the 30th day Sept. 179z,
For the lafl quarter of the
year 1793, that is the three
months of October, Novem-
ber and December last,
It is known that Philadelphia is the
only sea port of Pennsylvania, and of course
it will appear to certain demonftrition,
that the agriculture and commerce of that
prosperous state was much greater than
usual, even during the time when the fever,
imported into this capital, prevailed here.
In the month of October that disorder
was at its heighth.
From Correspondents.
A Correspondent wishes to know whe
ther the Democratic Society are actually
ly going to declare themselves Free, Sove
reign and Independent.-
Secrecy is very much condemned m
public concerns. The myßery of the
Democratic Society is suspicious : They
are so jealous they fufpeft thcmfelves.—
They are afraid, it is pretended, that
they should gain an undue influence, if
their proceedings and names were known.
Such wonderful lights of this dark age
would dazzle, if not hid. Nolle but men
of uublemifhed character sre admitted.
It is another Areopagus and ought to have
a charter. In short, if they were known
they could not be resisted. As it is even
now, they are able by caballing together
to carry points of elections.
No rule is more just than to fiifpe£ the
suspicious. Those who have or pre f end
to have the worst opinion of the designs
of our government, are not all Socratefes.
Tell the political views of the leaders of
our factions by their private lives—Are
they men of more unspotted fame than
tliofe they revile ? Are they more worthy
of confidence, or is more a£lually placed
in them than in the men of the people's
choice ! Those who know both, may com
pare them. When a man or a government
is supported by men of sense and virtue,
and by the body of honest, good citizens,
it is full proof of the purity of both. No
man, and 110 government, can be quite free
frftm enemies ; but it is very happy to
have them of a fort, that tho' they may
embarrass both, can dishonor neither.
While the Worthy farmers, (such for
example are those of Jersey and Connefli
cut) support the national authority,neither
theregularei)liftedfoldiers,northehir'dmob
who may be termed the militia of a foreign
incendiary can refill or destroy it. Any
government opposing the vile defigrts of
these latter, will be hated and slandered
by them ; and if it did not oppose them,
it would deserve to be hated, and could
not be slandered. The farmers and other
good citizens would leave it to the guillo
tine of the Democratic Society.
By this Day's MaiL
NEW-YORK, February 10.
Last evening arrived here from Monte
Chrilti (Hifpaniola) Capt. Coates, of the
sloop Independence, belonging to N. Pro
vidence, Rhode-Island—He left Monte
Chrifti the 9th of Jamiaay. lie informs,
that Cape Francois was blockaded by a
Spanish fleet, of seven fail, under the com
mand of Gabriel jErie Se Staeba—that
the fleet was much in want of men, so
much so, that they cpuld do little more
than to prevent veflcls from.running into
the Cape.
SAVANNAH, (G.) Jan. 2.
The schooner Sophia, from St. Mar
tin's, brings advice, that & fleet of 13 fail
of the line, a number of transports with
I 2,000 troops on board, from England,
and the Cork fleet with provisions, arrived
at Barbados on the 2oth of November
last.
The ship Henricus IV. Efchels, from
Corimna, is arrived at Charleston.
The French armed ship Lafcafas, Capt.
Braiqzont, from St. Domingo, arrived off
our bar on Monday last, and on Tuesday
failed f(it Charleston. We are informed
that (he took a valuable Jamaica ship,
which had come last from the Havana,
where she had put in in diftrels. Capt.
Branzont not meeting his prize here was
apprehensive file had been retaken or loft.
Arrivid at New-Tori.
Ship Jenny, Schermerhorn, Savannah
Ship King David, , Lisbon
Brig Ceres, White, do.
Sloop Independence,Coates, Monte-Chrifti
3,820,646
Capt. Coates spoke the sloop Charles,
Graham, from Wilmington, N. Carolina,
bound to New-York, oOt 25 days-—all
well.
1,740,689
Salem, Jan. 28.
The brig Leopard, Capt. Goodridge,
is arrived at Beverly from Lisbon. She
was one of a fleet of 60 fail of merchant
men, 14 of which were Americans, that
failed from Lisbon on the 4th Nov. un
der convoy of 7 Portnguefe men of war.
They parted with the fleet the toth Nov.
being out of danger of the Algerines.
Jan. 8. Capt. Goodridge, in long. 58
lat. 38, 30, spoke the (hip Lydia, of
Wifcaflet, 65 days from Liverpool,bound
to New York, ail well.
Dcc. 31. The (loop Ann, White, of
Portland, from Boston to Philad. out 4
days wasfpoke wit »in diftrofa.
P rtfmo*th, Jan. 22. On Saturday ar
rived here the brig Rising Sun, Noble, in
32 days from BafTeterre. Left there,
schooner Hopewell, Webb, of Salem;
brig Scarborough, Scammon, of Scar
borough ; fchoo. Mary, Pratt, of Bolton ;
Capt. Stone in a schooner, cad away in
Guadaloupe, veffcl and part of the cargo
SHIP NEIVS.
saved ; the Sunday following, wa» car
-1 ied into St. Christopher, by the brig Col
lin, Robinson, and treated with great po
liteness, and the people there were ex
tremely attentive to all Americans. Left
there brig Diana, Gardner, of New-York
—brig Bethiah, Lathrop, of Boston ; a
brig from New London ; and two schoo
ners had just arrived from Boston, names
and captains unknown. Capt. Cheever,
in a schooner belonging to Salem, failed
from St. Kitf*the 14th Dec. forthcChe
fapeak.
Sunday Jan. 5. In lat. 321 2. long. 70
30. spoke the (hip Nancy, belonging to
New-Meadow river, Levi Patterfoii, inaf
ter, from Liverpool, out 84 days, short
of provisions, water and other neceflaries,
supplied him with them ; seven days be
fore Capt. Peterfon fell in with Capt. No
ble, he spoke the brig Kitty, William
Waters, master, belonging to Philadel
phia, who had been blown off three times,
101 l his main-mast, and had no provisions
nor water on board, and Capt- Peterfon,
much to his honor, divided with the dif
tiefTed in proportion to the people on
board—one lady and three gentlemen
went on board the Kitty. On the 7th
inft. long. 69. lat. 36. spoke the brig
Thomas, John Seward, malkr, belong
ing to this port, out seven days ; freights
in Charleston, (S. C.) very high. The
Bth inft. spoke the schooner Woolwich,
belonging to Philadelphia, John Stinton,
master, from Cork, out 69 days, in long.
75 had on board 8 men, only 20ft,sbeef,
supplied them with some.
Capt. Noble was boarded three differ
ent times by privateers, and the Bulio
frigate of 32 guns, and Was treated with
all the politeness he could wish.
Capt. Noble further informs, that the
orders of the privateers were to take all
the American vcfTels from any French
port, with such articles as were prohibi
ted in the King of France's reign, but
if -oved American property, were dif
mified, the owners paying charges.
CONGRESS.
Ho, us:' of Reprefcntativss.
Tuesday, February 11.
The bill entitled, " An ast providing
for the relief of such inhabitants of St.Do
mingo, resident within the United State*,
as may be found in want of support was
brought in enrolled and signed by the
Speaker.
The committee on the petitions from
the Delegates of the Abolition Societies,
for prohibiting the citizens of the United
States from employing their (hipping in
the (lave trade, brought in a report which
was in favor of theprayerof the petition.
A report was also received from the
committee on fortifications.
The House then went into committee
of the whole on the Algerine business—
the debate was renewed, and continued
till 3 o'clock—when the question was put
on the firft resolve, as reported by the
fcleft committee, for building four frigates
and two twenty gun (hips—and agreed toy
47 in the affirmative, and 45 in the ncga
t've - Adjourned.
PRICE of STOCKS.
6 per cents, 18/
3 ditto, 10r
Deferred, I ]J~
U. S. Bank, 11 per cent. adv.
Pennsylvania do.- 8 ditto ditto.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the iithday of April next,
at the house of John Thomson, in Pcith-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
in that City#
THE Lot contains eleven acrer, on which it
an orchard of grafted apple trees, a well of
CKcellem water, a large ftoi c c stern, and a »rry
commodious Hable and coacli-houfc, and * great
quantity of the brft building (tones in the walls
of the houlc, which was formerly built tor the
residence of the Governors of New-Jcrfey. The
situation of this Lot is so well known for n»
healthiness and beautiful profpeft of rhe Rari on
river to the weft of the bav, and Sandy-Ho<»k to
the call, that a furiher description is um>%c< [[try.
The conditions of sale wiH be, one third ot the
purchase money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, when a gooo and fuffictirn' Deed will
be given to the purchaser, by Walt** Ru
th sr FORD, Esq. President of the Boa»d of
Proprietors o» the Eafl'ern Division of New-
Jersey, ana the remaining two thiidl fatislaCto
rily (ecured in equal annual payments.
By order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Rtgiftcr.
Pcrth-Jmboy, February 5, 1794. uiw2inThU <<„? is pubTificJ,
By MATHEW CAREY,
X" 118. Markit-STH kKT,
( Price a quarter dollar)
A short account of ALGIERS,
mine a (It Irrioi too of t lit' climate of thai
— of ih«* manners and cuftnmi of the in-
H.i!) i .hi s, ana i>' : In-n Ifvcrj iuj < s r>ll Si a 111,
f (• i'-: 1 >n' J . Il'.ll.'nri, Wnu.i, .::u:o:h'r
I'ovcxol liir ()•• y ' lom ih.f ului uhi '(>n of B<u
h;." ff: .'re: I! <• m\ ll'Ui ■>t iho ht'i ;jCt or Ch - rirs
V. I«» the pre'rnt lime; with a concifc view i t
the rtMjrjn of thr rupiuie between ALGIERS
and h: I'N ITED STATES.
dtf.
>■>. q.
JUST PV B L ISH tD,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P« RICE, No. 50, Markct-ftreet,
alio, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Market-fteefct,
(i j rice, bound, 6f 5* )
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story,
TO fl' HI C H !S .-iDDF.T),
The Indian Cottage
From the French of M. de St, Pif.rrf.,
•' I lifc. atx vc bioiii s have been lately pub
amongM the works ot a very different
nj uri, l.y M. de S;. Pu-nc, whortfided in the
coun'ry which it defcrihts, and was well ac
quainted with the _p*i»«cipal facts. Its orna
ments a>e the Lanrlfcapc— the Climate—and
the natural history o! the Torrid Zone, ©Mo
ved with the eye of Tafl<", and delineated with
the rye ot Philof-'phical knowledge. It is a
PiiHral, ol which (he 'able and the machine
ry m.iy be said to be eqn-iliy real. To these are
•dder!, the puie vein ot Moral li.ftiuftion, and
tiir Sublime Ideas of M. de Sc. Pierre."
d 4 t
i\b. 1
Insurance Company,
Philadelphia, January 6, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given to the nieml.urs
ot the Inlyranre Company of NOl th-
Amenca, that the D;re£tors have declared a
dividend (for the 1 <tft (ix month!?) of six vt R
Cent, on the amount ot the firtt at:d second
infta'mcnts ; and of one per cent per month
0.-> the sums paid in anticipation of the third
inflalment. calculating from the fij.ft day of
the month following that, in which tftofe nay
men's wcrr mad?-. The dividend will lrs«* tid
to the Stockholders, or their repreientacives,
at the company's office, No. I 19 fnuth Front
ftreet, at any time after the instant.
Bv o*"de ' of the Diicctois.
EBtNEZEK HAZARD, Secretary.
Jan. 9. w&r.-nn.
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Rcprefentati ves,
Dfcembik 2lit, 1793.
TX7HEREAS the Commillioufrs of public
VV Accounts, ii.ivc reported, thai they can
not proc ed to the ihvrfligation of tij? Treasury
Accounts, refprfting fp ciol Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cii
cul.it'ion Therefore,
Re/Jvtd, That all holders of special Indents
be due£t d, ard rrquir-a, on or before ihc firft
day of November n x>, to deliver the special In
den s in their poflVflion to one or other of the
Commiflioners of ihe Treasury, who are to give
rff'nu for the fame, and to rep rt to itieCom.
miffiiners on public accounts, on or before the
len'h day of November nrxt, the amount by
ihctw tH»>c£iively received, and also 10 the Le
gi fixture, at their meeting in November next.
Au«i thai ail special Indents no; rendered into
the Tieafury as above, on or before the fitft day
of November next, lhall be, and the fame are
herehv barred.
Rrjohcd, That public notice of this resolution
be given >n the feyeral Gazettes in this Slate,
once eveiy three weeks, uii'il the firft day o
November next. And that 'he Delegates'afthis
State in the Congrcls of the United Siater, be re
q«ielf?d to cause this resolution to be publiffocd
in our or more papers in the cities of Phiiadcl.
ph-a and New-York, and that provision will be
j..ade for the expences attending such publica-
Ordered, That rfhe resolution be sent to the
■Saute lor their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SAN FORD DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
December 2111,1793.
Refolvrd, That this House do concur with the
Houlc ol Representatives in the foregoing relo
lutions.
Ordetcd, That the refo'.utions be lent lo the
Houlc ot Rrprefentativei.
By oidrr of the Senate,
FfcLTX WARLEY, Cleik.
ewtNov.
Tr.eafury Department,
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will
be received at the Office of the Secretary
ol the Trcafury, until the 6'h of February next
inciufive, for the supply of all Rations which
may be required during the present year, at the
several place* of rendezvous hereafter mention.
c<i, for che Recruiting Service, viz.
At New-Brunfwick, in New-Jeifcy;
A" Philadelphia, }
At Lancaster, > in Pennsylvania.
At )
The rations 10 be furnifhed are to consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or J of a pound of pork,
Half «• i'U of ruT), brandy or whiflty,
One qua> t of fait
Two ouaits >'f vinegar(
... ' j ii- > per 100 rations.
Two pounds f»( |<Mp f r
One pound of candics^
N O R R I s-eou R T,
Back ot the New L'brary, between Chefnut
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs hi* friends and
the public in general, that he continues
c:ti>y : ng on n>p bufinefc of
Sign and Eire-Bucket Painting,
I. ike wife, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
for doors or window-Ihutters,dont in the molt
elegant manuer, and with dilparch.
OMe-s from the country will be thankfully
rece: ved, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
:\ id now opening for 'ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No, 118, Market jlreety
A Large'a d V t.'u.
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NET/ Annua] Regi lrer for I 792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of l 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on chriftiani.ty
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
(Cingviile's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty, a collection of eflays
Varieof Pruflla's works
Calm obferver—bv Mackintosh
Ruflell's ancient and modern £uropc
I-anghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extra&s, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Briflon's voyage
Rochcn's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
TaflVs Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Ctiriofities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitr.ker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
linlay's description ofKentucky
Piefent state ol Nova-Scotia
Prelent state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on niafunry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Rifles of Secuirdus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with fupcrb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immaterialifm
Berchold's advice J-o patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmfer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and work's
G ozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitas
Godwin on politicaljuftice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man *
Kaimes's /ketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reverie's of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. & 11 Id.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, callcd
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels intoDenmark,Ruflia,Poland,&c.
Cox's 1 ravels into Switzerland
Rabant'-> history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherbv's medical dictionary
Grigg's adv ice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid-
wiferv
Manning's pra&ice of phvfic
Cleghorn's difeafcs of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qnincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the ast lima
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's dissertations
London practice of phytic
Bell's forgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
la a t6F.
and Walnut-Streets.
|uft Imported,
Peale's Museum,
HAS Lately received a number of article;;
among whieh are the following ; That
reinarkablr bird called the Cut-water, or fcif
ars-bill; The Avofetie, commonly called the
Shoe*-maker, because ol its bill resembling a
crooked awl—The Long-legs, commonly call
ed the Black-bet, having perhaps the longed legs,
in proportion to the size of the bird, of any of
the feathered tiibe—The Storm-finch, common
ly called mother Cary's chicken—The Sea
fwallow, and varrous Gulls ; besides a variety
of Cranes, Curlews, Snipes, &c.
The scull »»f a Whale and one of its Vertebres.
An Indian hatchet made of chryftal : It is
curious that those uninformed wild people, hav
ing very little knowledge of the arts, and being
ignorant even of the exigence of iron and flee I,
should be able to form such hard fubftanees in
to fanciful farms as this, and other Indian ma
nufa&ures now in the Museum.
A hgnified Quince : The specimen (hews
what a remaikable effefl a dry warm situation
has on fruit. It is now about 8 years since it
was gathered ; and it was a real quince, now be
come wood, at least in appearance.
Presented by Mrs. Manfon of Charleftown,
S. C.—a tool used by the o:aheitans in making
their bark cloth, by pounding the bark on this
inrtrumcnt of wood, it produces the ribs which
resemble threads : the perfcdly straight and
equal lines made in this extreme hard wood, by
men without the use of iron,are curious & won
derful.
Alio, a rope made of grass part of the tige
inp of a vessel of Kamlkatka.
Prelcntcd by Dr. Hall, of LewU-town, a Squi'n
in spirits : when was lound, a number
ot Hones were appendid lo firings or ligaments
that projected from the front of ils head,which
occasioned a conjrfture, at it i> not furnifhed
wMh fufficient hns to refill the violence of the
tide and currents, that it fattened wirh these li
gaments on whatever it found at the bottom ; so
that the stones anfwercd the purpofeof anchors
and the ligaments of a gluiinous sticky nature,
that of cablet. Some of the (tones are in the
fame phial.
A coilrftion of Minerals and other Foflils
2'e now displayed in drawer* covered with glass
and in a mode which will fccurc them from de
rangement. To each specimen are affixed refe
rences to a book of defcripiions* This manage
inent of specimens of the Fossil kingdom, gen
ders this part of the Museum very convcnicn'
and fatisfa£>ory,and great attention will be paid
to the fvflematica! order of them, and in mak
ing the neceflary essays of cach : Also in giving
in a concise manner, the various uses they are
applied to ; thereby rendering them the more
intercfting to the public.
A Living FJk, of 2 years old, is just receiv
ed. By the account which monf. Buffon gives
of the Elk, it appears that he was not acquaint
ed with this American animal; he particularly
omits all notice of the curious apertures adjoin
ing the eyes of this Elk.
George Bringhurfl,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his forme/employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
shortest notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, wind for fulkeys and chaiis, and harness
of every description, in the neatest and newest
fafliion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, ard capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
farisfaftion to those whopleafe to employ him.
He has for fa>e, several carriages alinoft
finiftied, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794. m&t3m
Notice is hereby given,
r "P , HAT the subscriber has been duly ap-
X poinfed Adminillratrix on theeftate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herfelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law dire&s—and all persons in
terested, are defirtd to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the Eftatc of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subscriber, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who stand indebted to said Estate, are
rcquetted to fettle with him immediately ; as the
Ast of Limitation of Actions, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
otherwise render it neceflary for him to com
mence suits against them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Bofton,Nov. »3, 1793.
N B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requcfted to insert this in their
refpe&ive newspapers, and forward their ac
counts for the fame, to J. M.
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1794.
NOTICE it hereby g'ven, that there will
be paid at the Bank, after the sixteenth
the Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized filteen dollars and
fifty cents for each Ihare, !)eing the dividend
declared for the last fix months.
3 ,T
Bv Order,
JOHN KEAN, CaOiier.
ALL persons having any de
mauds agamft the eltate of GEORGE
WIBLE, laic ot the cuy of Philadelphia, baker,
are r<queftcd to bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated ; and thoft who are indebted, are
defircd to make immediate payment.
HENRY REES, Amimftrator.
2aw3w.
January 13.
Encyclopedia,
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookseller, at the Stone Houle, in Second
ftreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Of Arts, Sciences, and MifceUaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
Br WHICH
The Different Sciences and Art*,
are dig (fled into the form of
Diftinft Treaties or Syfcems :
I ""HIS volume contains principles of Levels,
Liberty, Doctrine of Lighr, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, Hiftorv of Lon
don, Longitude. Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
MifceUaneous articles, illultrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number of families are still »n the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the fubfcr.bers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poilible.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an impcrfeft state, ft-me ac
count of the reason of that imperfection (houid
be given. On the Bth of September last, the
Publisher had the misfoi tune of having his
Printing-Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the figuies, with
which he was printing the tables or lo
garithms, belonging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the neceflity of pub
lifhing the volume without these tables; but
hopes he shall be able to publish them with the
next volume which is now in considerable for-
wardnefs.
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
expressing his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to such of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible neceflity of
punctuality, both in taking up the volumes ac
early as poflible after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the fub
feribers having got only one, two, three, &c.
volumes, and several volumes remain i*ni» aid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifie
to the itpiividuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpaid lays the Publisher under
very serious embarraflment, and deprives him
of the use of many Thousands of Dollars which
at this time would be of very eflential service.
For tbefe reasons the PublHher finds himfelf
under the neceflity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to thole who
take and pay to the time of publication.
December 10.
Stock Brokers Office,
Mo. 16, Wall.street, New-York
THE Subscriber intending ro confinc himfelf
enrirely to the PURCHASE &. SALI or
S TOCKS on COMMISSION, bigi leave to of
f< r his fervicesto his friends and others, in the
line o( a Stock Broker. Those who may plcafr
to favor him with their bufineli, may d. puui
upon having it tranfa&ed with the uimoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders froin Philadelphia, Boston, or jnf
other pari of the United State., will lie fttiSiy
attended to. LEONARD BLEF.CKER.
C 5" Terms of Subscription for this
Gtmettc, are Six Dollars per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Subfcriptiont of perfom
•uiho reside at a dtjlance from the city, 1$ It
twelve months in advance, o» payment to ie
guaranteed at the place of pubTication.
Advertisements of onefjuare, or left, »«-
fertedfour tidies for One Dollar—once, for
Fifty CcnU—-and continuations at Twentr
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favort in this line, and Subfcrip
tiont, will be gratefully received at the Office
in South Fourth-freet ,Jive doors north of tit
Indian Queen
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.'
Vol. X.
aawti J.