rf tlje Iflitifefi
EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 7 2 of Vol. V.]
Far Frederickjburgb and
Falmouth,
(Rappahannock River, Virginia)
THE SCHOONER
Jlllk Friendjhip,
Henry Macnamara, Mafter,l
W ill fail ou Saturday next. For freight or
paflage apply to the Captain on board, at
John Wain's Wharf, or to
Emanuel Walker.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
VIRGINIA TOBACCO, FLOUR,
WHEAT, and GINSENG
March 5
For SAL E,
The Schooner
TS NEPTUNE
( Lying at Morton's Wharf)
She is a good ftrpng vef
i- burthen about 500 bar
"rels, and fails remarkably
fact. Inventory may be seen on board, or at
the Store of the Subscribers.
Wharton & Lewis.
Feb. 28, 1794. dtf
For Sale 01* Charter,
The Ship
« ANDROMACHE,
( an American bottom)
3^'"' —-\y John Moore, Master ;
Is a flout good vessel, about two years old,
burthen 232 tons, has only made three voy
ages, and may be sent to sea at a small ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to'
Wharton & Lewis.
Feb. 22, 1794
A Slitter of Iron
WANTED.
A MAN well (killed in rolling and
flitting Iron into Sheets, mayjliave
good encouragement by calling on the
Printer. Feb. 27. eop4t
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
H. & p. Rice,
No. 50, High-Street,
(Price One Dollar)
The Gentleman's
Pocket Library.
CONTAINING,
I, The Principles of Politeness.
*. The Economy of Human Life.
3. Rochefoucauld's Moral Reflexions.
4. Lavater's Aphorisms on Man.
5. The Polite Philosopher.
6. The way to Wealth, by Dr. Franklin.
7. Seledt Sentences.
8. Detached Sentences.
9. Old Italian, and Englifli Pro
verbs.
10. A Tablet of Memory.
March 3. 4t
"AVIS.
LE habjtans infortunes dc la Colonic Franfaift
de St. Domingue qui dans I'incendie du
Cap font vcnus chcrcher un afile dans lcs Etats
Unis font tnformes que la Republique leur ac
co'de un paflage pour Fiance. 1U font invites
en confequcnce a fe prefcnter a ccl cflct d'ici a
buit jours.chcz lcs Consuls & agens de la Re
publique dans les differ- nts Ports dcs Etats Unis.
A Philadlelphie, le 10 Ventos—l'an 2d de
la Republique unc & indivisible.
(28 Fevrier, 1794. vicuxJliU)
Xc Miniflrc Plenipotentiarc dc la Republique
Fran^ailc,
JH. FAUCHET.
Tkt editors of rtncffmfirs in the Vmted Slates art
rtfefied to insert the above notice in their paper. 8:
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfccsds and in cases of 50 boulci each.
' ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipe*, hogsheads and quarter calki,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Frontjllrcct.
Jan. *, 1794- dtf
J lift Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Arnftcrdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A feav bales Holland Duck,
Ditto OznaburgSj
Holland Sheeting,
'Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious Jizes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c. &c.
4 FOR SALE BY
3twff
THOMAS KETLAND, Juri
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
Jloouldapplication be made'within a few days ;
other wife Jhe will take freight for Amjler
dvm.
March i, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
(Price Twenty Cents)
By Mathew Carey,
No. 118, Market-Street,
Love in a Village,
A COMIC OPERA,
As performed at the New Theatre,
Chefnut-Street.
Feb. 28.
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from adtual iurvey, by A. PfFOLIE,
Geographer, from. St. Domingo,
THIS Plan will be engraved on a plate 26
inches square ; and it will conWo an ex
act description of all the squares, ftr' ets and
alleys in the City and Liberties. The fituaiion
of rhe several public buildings, such as the State-
H«ufe, City-Hall, Seat of Qongrefs, Churches,
Meeting-Houfcs, Hofpiial, Libraiy and Semina
ries of Learning—of the {everal Banks, and of
the Federal and State Offices, will be ascertained.
The parts which are built on will be d'ftingmfh
ed from those that are not. The courl'es of the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended to connect the
navigation of these two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineated. It will also be ornamented, by a
view of the flapping in the harbor, and an ele
vation of Congress-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In fhorr, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and desirable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power:
and it (hall be compleated with the greatefl
poflible dispatch, as soon as the generous encou
ragement of fubfcnbeis shall insure to the author
such a sum as will be fufficicnt to delray ex
pences.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the Subscribers names, and information con
cerning the police, population and present ftattf
of the city.
The price to fubferibers will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at the time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Subscriptions will be gratefully received at
the principal Booksellers iu this city—and the
original Draft may be seen at B. Davies',
No. 68, Market-street, at any time until it shall
be f'Ut into the hands of the Engraver.
Feb. 28.
Treasury of Pennsylvania,
February 14, 1794.
PUBLIC Noiice is hereby given to all persons
indebted 10 the Commonwealth, lor monies
borrowed of the Trustees of the Loan Office,
eftablifhcd per ast of the 4th of April, 1785,
that the time is expired when ijiejaft payment
Ihould have been made, and every juftifiable
indulgence having been granted, That unlets
they come forward and pay off their refpeftive
balances on or before the fvft day of April next,
precepts will issue against all delinquents with
out regard to persons or circumdanc.es. All
former and existing Ihenffs, who have money
in their hands belonging to said Office, are re
queued to bring it to me on or before the above
period, otherwise I shall be under the disagree
able neceflity of prosecuting them without ai 1 -
tin&ioa.
P S. The Pi inters throughout the State are
requested to inlert the above in their papers lor
the information of their fcllow-cituem.
AND
March 6, i 794.
d—tf
2awtf
CHRISTIAN FEBIGER
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Peterlburg in Russia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
'John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-street.
diw3tawtf
March 4,1794.
Writing
ON SIGN-BO A RDSy JAPANN'D
PLATES, £57.
Done in the most elegant manner, and after
the firft mailers ; like wife,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finifhed at the lhorteft notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth streets.
March 4.
WANTED,
A Man Servant,
Whp is acquainted with the common duties
about a house. None need apply but 'JTuch
as can be well recommended.
Enquire of the Printer.
dtf
March 4.
Exhibition of Artificial
Chinese Fire-Works,
Without powder, smell, or smoke.
MR. STUNNER returns his (ulcere thanks
to the public for the great encourage
ment he has met with, and has the honor to
inform them, that his exhibition will be con
tinued every evening (Sundays excepted) at
7 o'clock, in Cherry-Alley, the firft door weft
of Fourth-street. Tickets for grown persons
i id, and for children 6d.
Sele& parties conlifling of ten or more per
sons will be.admitted from 8 o'clock until 10,
notice being given the afternoon previous to
the exhibition. Tickets one quarter dollar.
Vivat Respublica.
*4t
March 4,
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased,
TheHoufe N°. 245,
AND
Lot of Ground
On which itftands, wherein Jam es Riddle
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
street, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet 10 inches in
Fijont oh Market-street, and the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold fub
je<St to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the -contributors to the
Peijnfylvania Hospital, and their fucceflors
forever. For terms apply to
SamuhlCoates,
Jonathan Jones,
Anthony W. Mqr.ris,
Samuel Powfll Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, ciec'd.
*eop 3W
March 1, 1794-
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Cojee-Huufe as this
City ; —
RLSPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippen-Street, be
tween Third and Foutth-Streets, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timqionj., wbicl*
has lately been greatly improved, and is now
veiy commodious ; where he has turniihed him
felt with ihe best of LIQUORS, an i wijl fur
nifh a TABLE for Partus, with the best provi
sions the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
Ihorteft notice. From his long experience in
this line, of bufuiels, he flatters himtel* be (hall
be able to give faiuTafhon to all who may please
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January a<J, 1794.
[Whole No. 530.]
Congress of the United States.
House of Representatives.
January 30.
In committee of the whole on Mr. Madison's
refulutions.
Speech of Mr. Madison.
[continued.]
If it were neoeflary to investigate the
full amount of re-exportations, several ar
ticles might have been added to the lift,
such as Whale-Oil, Ginseng, Flax-Seed,
&c.
Nor would it be unfair, perhaps, to in
clude the primitive value of the articles,
re-exported in the new forms given to
them by art. A great proportion of what
is sent from the United States to Great-
Britain, in a rude state, it worked into
articles of merchandize, and exported in
the course of trade. Take, for example,
the two articles of Pot and Pearl A (lies,
and Indigo.
The amount of the «xport of the form
er to Great-Britain, is Hated at 747,078
dollars ; of which, if no part is re-export
ed in its unaltered state, the whole enters
into British manufa&ures. Supposing one
third of these particular manufa&ures, to
be exported which appears to be nearly
the general proportion, the value of Pot
and Pearl Afties re-exported, is 249,026
dollars.
The indigo used in Great Britain has
appeared to be 379,064 dollars. One
third of which re-exported as an ingredi
ent in manufactures, is 126,254 1-2 dol
lars. These two items alone amount to
375'3 50 2 "3 dollars,and with many others
might be added to the mass of re-expor
tations. But they are stated rather to
throw light on the general chara&er of
our trade with Great Britain, than to be
relied on in the present cafe, which has
been fufficiently elucidated by more direst
and simple views of it.
Mr. M. proceeded to apply the cal
culations he had made, to the question
discussed by Mr. Smith, in relation to the
comparative importance of the French and
Britifti matkets to the productions of the
United States.
By deducting the 3,501,067 dollars, re
exported, from the 6,651,429 dollars, im
ported into Great Britain, he reduced her
actual consumption to 3,150,362 dollars,
to which adding the 1,805,744 exported
to the Weft-India market, the whole Bri
tish consumption Hands at no more than
4>9j6,106 dollars. On comparing this
with the exports to the French dominions
(who re-export none of any consequence)
to wit, 4,424,336, the fubjift took a ve
ry different aspect from that which h?d
been given to it.
But there was, Mr. M. observed, a cir
cumstance of the utmost importance to a
fair view of this question, which had been
wholly overlooked by the gentleman from
Scuth-Carolina, and which cut up his cal
culations by the roots.
The re-exportations from G. Britain,
were not only to be fubt rafted from the
consumption of G. Britain, but in a great
degree being made to France, were to he
added to the value of her market to the a -
griculture and commerce of the United
States
The re-exportations from G. Britain to
France, could not be accurately fixed bv
- any documents to be had here. In gene
ra!, they were known to be great. Jie
would, he said, confine himfelf ro the
two articles of Tobacco and Flour, of
which he estimated the amounts as fol
lows :
The tobacco exported from the United
States, appears to be about loc.ooo
hhds. It is valued in the return of our
exports at 4,349,567 dollars.
It is known that France consumes about
1-4 of the whole quantity exported, that
is, 1,087.392 dollars. It appears, by the
return of our exports, that the dired ex
ports of this article to France, -(lands at
3 8+.641 dollars. The indirect fuppliosKm Lc Fiance, not appealing in the re
turn* of oar exports, and tu be added to
them, is 702,750dollars.
Of the Flour sad Grain feat to Great-
Britain, ailovriug, as above stated, 1-4 to
have been there coaltuaed, which is pro
bably beyond the tcuLh, the re-exporta
tion amounted tu 81 £,880 dollars. It is
well uuLi.tuod, that France v is the mar
ket where these articles were finally con
fwned. The acconnt may now be liated.
To the French Market direct-
ly exported for confump- DoH<ir.t.
tiaa, 4,424,336
Tobac co iodirc&ly expxorted
for do.
Wheu and Flour indirrftly
exported for do. 815,800
Total of French consumption, 5,942,92 1
Total of Britilh do. 4,956,106
Excetsof Fieach coufumption 986,115
Thus it appears, without taking into
the account the other articles re-exported
to France, thit the market of that coun
try for our exports, was worth to the U
nited States nearly a million more than
the market of Great Britain, and yet the
gentleman from South Carolina had re
presented the Britifli market as exceeding
the French in the annual amount of be
tween three and four millions ; and hod
pronounced, without hesitation that G.
Britain in reference to our productions,
was a more important cujlomer than France
almoil in the ratio of tivo to one.
Mr. M. returning to the Secretary's
report said, he hoped after what had
been (he\vn, it would be needless to trou
ble the committee, with further remarks
on thi InbjeCt. In dismissing it however,
he could not do justice to his own im
prelTijns, without declaring his entire con
fidence, that the report would be regard
ed by ail difceroing and unprejudiced jud
ges, as one of the many monuments
which its author had left behind him, of
the zeal, the talents, and the patriot ism
with which he had dilcharged the duties
of his ftstion j and that he bad carried
with him into retirement, a purity, both
in his public and private name, which no
.thing that could be (aid within or without
the walls of Cougrefs, could tarnilh.
Having gone thro' the particular ob
servations into which he had been led by
the attack made on the report of the Se
cretary of State before the committee, he
(hould procceed to a more general view of
what had been urged by the opponents of
the resolutions he had introduced.
Among other things it had been alledg
ed in the latter stage of the debate, that
the friends of the resolutions had involved
themselves in inconsistency, by Ihifting the
ground of argument from commercial to
political ronfiderations. In answer to this
charge, he remarked, that if in any in
stance of his public life he was free from
the charge of inconsistency, it was on the
fubjeSt of vindicating our national inter
ests, against the policy of Great Britain
towards us : that in all the public stations
with which he had been honored since the
peace, and on every occasion which had
occurred, his conduct had been marked
by an adherence to this principle : that if
in the firft arguments he
had dwelt chiefly on commercial topics,
it would be recollected that he kept tjiti
door open for political ones, if the turn of
the difcuflions require them : that
he had forborne to enlarge on the political
fides of the question, because he thought
it defenfible on commercial grounds, and
was willing to meet it on those grounds,
because he did not with to mingle unne
ceflarily, irritating ideas in the difcuflion,
and because he had supposed that every
thing relating to the tieaty of peace, the
Indians, the Algerines, the spoliations
&c. were fufficiently imprinted on every
mind, and would have all the rffefts they
ought to have, without being particular
ly enforced.
Whilst he could thus repel the charge
of inconsistency brought against himfelf;
it mull be evident he thought, how much
room there was for retorting the charge.
In the early stages of the difcuflion,there
seemed but one sentiment as to the cori
duft of Great Britain, at least in a politi
cal view; the difference turned on the
question, whether we could or ought to
counteract her condud. In the latter
stages of the difcuflion, palliations if not
j unifications had been multiplied and la
bored ; not only with refpeft to her com
mercial poKcy, but with refpefl to. the
detention of the polls, the Indians, the
Algerines, and even the spoliations <jf our
ventral commerce ; on the u*lawfulnef»
of which -our executive lad grounded the
remonii ranee and demand of iwdetnuilica
tion lyiug on the table.
in addition to tins, he stated the in
consistency between tnofe who maintained
andthoie who reje&eil the theory of leav
ing commerce yerfe£Uy free; the iucon-
Cftency of rejecting this theory, and yet
refilling to meet rellri&ions on one fide,
with re&ri&ionson the other : the rocon
filtency of condemning a cummercikl dis
crimination between nations, as contrary
to the wife example of <G. Britain, and
claiming for G. Britain the credit ofmak
iug such discriminations in favor of the
United States: The inconfittcncy of pre
dicting that the measure would dellroy the
revenue, and infilling that the dutied arti
cles would continue to be imported from
the lame source thro' more expenfivechan
nels : The inconliftency of exclaiming a
gainst topics and remarks which may a
waken the paflions, and endeavonring
themselves to alarm our fears; of exhort
ing the committee to consult its judgment
alone, and substituting for argument con
tinued addreflesto the imagination.
7°2,70y
Partigular pains, he remarked,had been
taken tu exhibit a picture of our nation
al prosperity, which might flatter our
withes, and forbid experiments. It was
readily admitted, he said, that there were
many features in the face of our affairs,
which were proper themes of mutual con
gratulation, whether compared with the
fttuation of other countries, or with our
own, under other circumstances. And
it gave him much pieafure to add, that
the degree of prosperity we enjoyed, tho'
not to be exclusively credited to the
change of our federal government, or to
particular measures under it, according to
the exaggerations of some, wss yet so
far, and so evidently the fruit of that
change, as to do honor to the people of
Amenca in adopting it. He mentioned
two innovations making part of the con
stitution, which must alone, have had a
powerful effefi in meliorating the condi
tion of this country, to wit: The prohi
bition of paper money or other violations
of contra£ts, and the abolition of inco
herent and rival regulations of trade,amang
the several states. But notwithstanding
the flourilhing state of our affairs, when
viewed under certain aspeCts, if was equal
ly certain that there were others, which
suggested very different reflections.
( Spccch to be continue J.)
CONGRESS.
House of Reprefentaiivet.
Monday, March 3.
Mr.Sedgwick of the committee to whom
was referred the resolution of the House,
authorizing the President of the United
States to negociate (if neceflary) a loan
of one million of dollars, brought in a
bill pursuant to that resolution.
Mr. Tracy of the committee on the
Poft-Office law, brought in a bill pursu
ant to the report of the committee of the
whole, which had been agreed to by the
House—This bill was twice read and re
ferred to the committee of the whole house
on Friday next—lnterim to be printed
for the use of the members.
A msfTage was received from the Pre
sident of the United States, communica
ting an extradt of a letter from Mr. Short;
and copies of two letters from the Mini
ster of the United States at L'Toon.
A petition was read from the manufac
turers and dealers in articles fabricated
from bar-iron, praying that the duty on
imported bar-iron may be repealed—re
ferred to a committee.
Several other petitions were read and
referred.
A report was read from the Secretary
of the Treasury, on sundry petitions which
had been referred to him—The letter en
closing this report suggests to the House,
whether it would not be expedient to
place the business of reporting on petitions
in some other channel, as the prefTure of
his official duties in addition to the extra
business in consequence of the enquiry in
to the Treasury Department, will not per
mit him to pay that seasonable and prompt
attention to these petitions which the par
ties expect and have a just claim to.
It being moved to read the confidential
communications just received from the
President—the galleries were cleared—at
2 o'clock the doors were again opened—
when,
Mr. Madison's resolutions were called
upon; after some conversation it was moved
to poftpoQC the consideration of them to
this day fortnight. Negatived 44 to 36.
A potlppnement till next Monday was
carried without a division.
A biß providing for the payment of an
inllalmeut due the bauk «r|S reported.
A committee was appointed to bring
in a bfll appropriating a fi'.mof money for
defraying the expencej ot foreign negoci
auo'i.
A resolution paffied requesting the Pre
(idem to lay before this house the amount
of rioaies expended in making presents to
the Creeks, and Cherokees since the trea
ty made at New-York; alio the expencej
of that treaty.
The report of the committee relative
to lands formerly in the (late of North-
Carolina, but fiuce ceded to the Indians
was taken up in committee, and, after some
time spent in difcufiion, progrefa was re
potted. The Until/' adjourned.
Tuesday, March 4.
A melTage was received from the Se
nate, informing the House, that the
Preiident of the United States had approv
ed and signed the a<st in alteration of the
ast establishing a mint—also that the Se
nate have passed the bill providing for the
remiflion of the foreign tonnage duty on
sundry French veflels, which took refuge
in the ports of the United States the pad
Summer.
The house then took into consideration
the amendment to the conditution of the
United States, which has been pafTcd by
the Senate—this amendment is as follows :
" The judicial power of the United
States (hall not be condrued to extend to
any suit in law or equity, commenced or
prosecuted againd one of the United States
by citizens of another State, or by citizens
or fubjefts of any foreign state."
To this amendment Mr. Boudinot pro
posed an amendment, the objeit of which
was to qualify the principle by condition
ing that the dates should make provision
for the attainment of Judice in the State
Courts—Thisamendment was negatived—
only seven ayes appearing on calling the
yeas and nays.
The quedion then was on the third
reading of the original amendment—this
after some remarks by Mr. Boudinot, Mr.
Scott, Mr. Dexter and Mr. Murray—the
two lad in favor, the two firft in opposition
to the amendment, was carried in the af
h-mati've*—it waa accordingly read the
third time.
On the question, will the House concur
with the Senate, it was determined in the
affirmative, the yeas and nays being as
follow:
AYES.
Meflrs. Ames, Bailv, Baldwin, Blount,
S. Bourne, B. Bourn, Cadwallader, Carnes,
Christie, Claiborne, Cobb, Coffin, Coit,
Coles, Dawfon, Dearborn, Dent, Dexter,
Findley, Foster, Gilbert, Giles, Gillefpie,
Gilman, Glen, Goodhue, Gordon, Grove,
Harrifon, Heath, Heifter, Hillhoufe, Hol
len, Hunter, Irvine, Latimer, Learned,
Lee, Locke, Lyman, Macon, Madison,
Malbone, M'Dowel, Mebane, Montgome
ry, Moore, P. Muhlenberg, Murray, Nevil,
New, Nicholas, Niles, Page, Parker, Pres
ton, Rutherford, Sedgwick, Sherburne,
Smilie, J. Smith, I. Smith, S. Smith,
W. Smith, Sprigg, Swi ft, Thatcher, T racy,
Treadwcll, Trumbull, V. Alen, V. Cort
landt, V. Gaafbeck, Venable, P. Wadf
worth, Walker, Watts, Williams, W ingite,
Winn, Winfton—Bl.
NOES.
Meflrs. Beatty, Boudinot, Fitzfimons,
Hancock, Hindman, Pickens, Scott, Tal
bot, Ward—9.
A bill to authorize the President of
the United States, to borrow one million
of dollars at 5 per cent, was twice read—
and ordered to be engrolTed for a third
reading to-morrow.
The -report on the estimate of appropri
ations, for the services of the year 1794,
so far as refpe&s the War Department,
was taken up in committee of the whole—
agreed to—and a bill ordered to be brought
in. Adjourned.
Wednesday, March 5.
The loan bill was passed this day.
' Sundry petitions were read from persons
in different branches of manufaftores, as
Hitters, &c. praying that enhanced du
ties may be laid on imported articles of
like fabric with thofethey manufacture—
Referred to the committee already ap
pointed on similar petitions.
Mr. Dearborn called up the report of
a feleA committee on the expediency of
erecting a light-house on Seguin in the
Diftrift of Maine—this was read the firft
time, and is in favor of the measure—the
report was adopted, and a bill ordered.
A bill to provide a nan] armament was
read twice, and referred to the committee
of tlie whole house to-morrow.
lu committee of the whole on the re
port relative to placing the ports and har
bors of the United States in a posture of
defence—Mr. Boudinot in the chair—The
report was read—it s flates that the follow
ing ports and harbors ought to be put ill
a ilate of defence, to wit—Portland in
Maine—Portsmouth in New-Hamplhirc;
Cape-Ann, Salem, Marblehead, Bolton,
in Maflachufetts; Newport, Rl Illand ;
New-London, (Connecticut) New-York;
Philadelphia; Baltimore; Norfolk; Wil
mington, North-Carolina; Ocracoke In
let, Charleston, South-Carolina; Savan
nah, Georgia.—The fortifications to be of
a nature to defend the several ports and
harbors against surprize by naval arma
ments ; that the several places to be for
tified be garfrifoned by troops in the pay
of the United States.
From the estimates it ap
pears that the sums necefla-
ry to erect the fortifications Dollt. Cts.
amount to
That 200 Cannon will be
neceflary, which with their
carriages, &c. amount to
Dolls. 172,698 52
The annual expences of
the Ti oops neceflary to gar-
rifon the several fortifications
including pay, fubfitlence,
The committee state, that in their opi
nion the security of the United States,
renders it neceflary to provide the cannon,
whether the fortifications should be ere£l
ed or not—The report goes on to (late
the expense which would probably be in
curred at the several places mentioned—
the aggregate of which is as above dated-
Mr. Fitzfimons who was on the fele&
committee, observed that it mull appear
to the committee of the whole, that the
report was substantially a recommendatory
business—the carrying of which, into ex
ecution mud eventually depend on variout
circumllances—all that Congress can do,
he added, was to vote a sum of money—
and leave the execution of the plan to the
discretion of the President of the United
States, to be completed in such manner
as he may find expedient—the commit
tee went through the report —some alter
ations were made by encreafing tiie num
ber of places to be fortified, and diminish
ing the number of cannon in others—so
that the aggregate of the expence remain*
the fame.
Mr. Fitzfimons then moved sundry re!
solutions for carrying the report into ef
fect—thefe were severally put, and agreed
to.
The committee then rose and the Chair
man reported the amendments and resolu
tions to the house.
The amendments were to insert Penob
fcot j Machias; Newbury-Port; Anna
polis; George-Town, South-Carolina ; a*
places to be fortified—The several amend
ments and resolutions were adopted by
the House—and a bill ordered to be
brought in.
The committee on that part of the PreG
dent's meflage relating to arms and milita
ry stores—brought in a report, which dates
the feveial additions and augmentation!
neceflary—Two additional arsenals—a na
tional armoury—sooo stands of arms—.
gun-powder, &c. arc fpecified—this report
was twice read and referred to the commit
tee of the whole.
Mr. Smilh reported a bill making fur
ther provision to defray the expence at
tending the intercourse of the United
States with foreign nations—this was twice
read and committed for to-morrow.
A meflage was received from the Presi
dent of the United States communicating
sundry documents and papers laid before
him by the Secretary of State, relative to
spoliations on the commerce of the United
States—The communications were read.
The detail of the Secretary of State ex
hibited a deplorable statement of the loflet
and vexatious interruptions of our com
merce and navigation by the cruisers of the
belligerent powers—This communication
w3» ordered to be printed.
Adjourned.
BALTIMORE, March I.
We are informed from good authority,
that a house in this town has received and
deposited in the Bank of Maryland and
office of discount and depoflt, twenty-one
dray-loads offptctt ■' amounting to aa ira
menfe sum.
76,053 25
96,645
90,349 25For the Gahtti of (be United States.
Front tie laji Pjkis Edition of the Encr
clopmdis, publi/hed by order of the Na~
tional Convention— 1793'
Philosophy. Literally, the love of
wisdom—divided into Natural and Mo
ral. Moral Philosophy teacheth the re
lations and duties of moral agents. Men,
are all born equal:—and their end is equal:
alike weak and helpless at their birth ;
and, when they fall into the grave—the
chamber of Eternal Sleep—they are alike,
motionless, and tending to dissolution.—
The house prepared for all the Lvi.ig, re
ceives the king and the beggar; where
they both rot like an or a
horfe-t—J. The ideaof an etherialfpark,
or spiritual part, which was formerly sup
posed by enthusiasts immortally to partake
of happiness or pain in a future existence,
has been totally reprobated by the fort ef
frits; moral goodness or turpitude, as it
may affett a man's condition after death,
is, therefore, a mere chimera; invented
by designing priests, and ought forever to
be banished from genuine depurated theo
logy. Tbefe bugbears have never had
any tendency but to make slaves and cow
ards :—-Slaves, to sacerdotal and regal
craft; —ever too pusillanimous, to attempt
bold atchievments ; fueh as murders, af
faflinations, and robberies :—but, thanks
to the Qlumiuations of modern genius,
and French Philosophy ! This delulion,
and all these checks have vanilhed, like a
mist before the rays of Sol.
From the equality, which nature has
rftablilhed inthe mannerof comingintothe
world, as ijvell as of going out of it, the
strongest reason is inferred, that (he in
tended all men (hould be equal while in
it. All those differences, by which one
man is rich, and another is poor; one
man hath houses and lands, and another
hath none ; one man hath breeches, and
another is obliged to go without, are of
course owing to the tyranny of accident,
custom. or some of the occult qualities of
Aristotle. Nothing can be clearer than
th )t all those differences are repugnant to
natural equality—and, as liberty of choice
and aiftion, is as much a part of the droits
d'Homme, as equality, there is a strong
propeniity in nature to re'tore the origi
nal equilibrium :—And, woe to those,
who (hall oppose the glorious revolution !
The Sans Culottes, or disciples of the
Parilian School, have now spread them
selves all over France ; properly equipped
with great guns and small; with poign
ards, and fcymetars, and guillotines of all
dimensions, to propagate the doctrines of
Liberty and Equality. They teach every
where, and enforce it too, by a&ions, that,
the belief in an All-Mighty, and AU-Jult
Creator and Ruler, is a ridiculous fable ;
that, if a Sans Culotte, hath an appe
tite for a new wife, or two or three of
them, he may .take where he ehoofes ; and
if any obftru&ioji to the gratification,
(hould be offered by husbands or parents,
instantly to cmfh it, by making use of the
weapons he carries with him :—And, as
they have this unqueilionable right to the
•wives, and daughters of all who rtfufe
to become instant proselytes, they certain
ly have a m;:ch llronger title to every
thing else.
There are two fefls of heretics, who
ire equally enemies to the New Phi'ofo
>hy :—The one is called Royaljl or Ar'if
ocrat, the other FtiLrulijt : The former
s the molt dangerous. Hitherto, howe
per, their oppjfuion hath been ineffectu
al. Of those, w.io have not fallen in
combat with the brave Sans Culottes, some
have been captivated, brought to a fum
jnary trial, and immediately guillotined ;
and after they have been thus effectually
put to silence, their processes have been
drawn up, and pubhfhed ; bv which their
attiocious opposition to the bleifed doc
trine of Liberty and Equality, has been
clearly evinced. Others of them have
been pursued to their strong holds, and
fortified towns; where they have mostly
perished by fire or sword. It is now pro
posed to deltroy eveTy place, that affords
them shelter, even to the last town in the
Republic : And in order to accelerate the
extermination of these vermin, it hath
been resolved to destroy them in groups
of four or five hundred, in a moment, by
springing of mine* under them. How
much i* the world indebted to the New
Fbilolbphy, for this grand discovery !
Where force at any particular time or
place, is inefficient to accompli(h the pur
pole intended, this system allows the use
of all the arts of diffiraolation, Lying
aad Petjury, that ftie mod fruitful inven
tion can devise :—For as the end fan&i
•fits the means, all means are alike, that
are ufefttl in cftabliihing the grand designs
of universal Liberty and Equality.
The ancient Romans, the moll glorious
Republic the world ever knew* whefe
chara&er in some refpe£ts the Sans Cu
lottes are the fitteft of all men on earth to
aflame, adopted these principles. In this
manner they procured their wives among
the Sabines; and their lands too, from
them and the other neighbouring nations.
We burn with impatience to imitate, and
if possible to excel them. They ere&ed
temples to ideal divinities, to gratify the
common people ; who, when not enga
ged in arms, mull be amused by some
farce or other. With similar views the
Sans Philosophers, are about to
raise an edifice in honor of Rtafon and
Truth—the greatest farce imaginable !—
for they are too wife to suppose there is
the least eflential difference between reason
and truth, and the ranked madness and
falfehood; only that the former are names,
which they have nit en invoked, as a charm
against their enemies.
But there is one article in which we
have improved on the ancient Sans Cul
lottes of Rome. Among them, the vo
taries of the goddess of love and beauty
used torefort to her temples, to perform
their dated devoirs in secret—among those
of Paris the fair idols (hall be fcle&ed
from the feflion of files de joie ; and be
ing drefied in the most splendid Cyprian
attire be introduced into the great Hall
of the Sans Culottes ; where in the pre
sence of all the multitude, the President
fliall embrace them with a kiijs of frater
nity.
N. B. As the Democratic Society are
about publishing an American edition of
this great Work, the curious, who wish
to fee more of it, are requested to call at
the Philosophical Hall on any evening of
their flawed meetings.
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 6.
By a ftiip arrived at Bollon from I»if
bon, intelligence is received, that Toulon
was befiegedbyan army of 130,000 men;
that these troops commanded the entrance
of the upper and lower harbor, so that it
was impossible to go out or come in—
That the ga'rrifon mini fall in time—but
t,hat the allies had poffeTion of two emi
nences, under the guns, of which they
moored their (hipping, having previously
taken out their provisions and artillery-—
and placed them in their forts on the moun
tains they hold—that the allies are resolv
ed to burn their (hips, if they (hould be
obliged to surrender—These fortreffes can
hold out against every thing, for a long
time, except famine—but that there was
no profpeft of relief. The foregoing ac
count the Captain of the {hip fays, he
had from two Bntifh officers who wer - on
furlough at Lifoon—thefe officers left T >u
lon the 18th ofDecrmber. Probablr the
fame officers that were seen at St. IJbes,
by a Captain of a (hip . r'ved at Ports
mouth New-Hampshire—The lait Captain
reported, that the allies held only ant for
trefs.
A Charleston South-Carolina paper
fays, that the plague has got on board the
Spanilh fleet, destined to the attack of the
French port of St. Domingo—that the
Admir-1 had loft 400 men out of his own
(hip, and that 3000 were sick with the
malady i=. the fleet.
Accounts from Savannah, Gco-gia, fay
that a treaty has been formed between the
Spaniards and the Creeks—and that the
latter have guaranteed the sovereignty of
the Miffifippi to the former.
Lord Dorchester Governor of Canada,
has ifTued a proclamation prohibiting all
persons from holding seditious discourses,
or uttering treasonable words, spreading
falfe news, publishing or distributing li
bellous papers, written, or printed, tend
ing to excite discontent, &c. &e.
The proceedings of the Town Meeting in
80/ ion, have been publi/hed. The fol
lowing remonflrance addrejfcd to the Mo
derator, and Jtgncd by four hundred of
the Merchants and principal citizens, will
shew the true sense of that Town.
The Petition and Remonstrance of
the Subscribers, Merchants, Traders
and others, inhabitants of the t»wn of
Boston, refpe&fully shews;
THAT having had information that it
it is in .contemplation of the town, pub
licly to express its fentimente, that it is
expedient to impose certain reftri&ions on
the navigation and commerce of foreign
nations, in order to remove and counteract
the embarrafiinents which now exist, or
which are to be apprehended from their
conduct with respect to the commerce and
navigation of this country.
We conccive it our duty to express to
our fellow-citizens our apprehensions, that
the existing evils, or those which are to be
feared, do not at a period so critical and
eventful as the present, require the violent
and hazardous remedy which is proposed
to be applied to them. ,
We are convinced that the proposed
reftriftions, instead of relieving, will ac'd
embarrassments, if not finally destroy our
ccmmerce, and may possibly hazard the
tranquility of the country.
The attention of our representatives in
Congress, already evinced on this fubjeA,
jultifies us in the molt unlimited confidence
in their ability, and inclination to secure
to lis every commercial advantage confid
ent with the present situation of our
country, and the best interests of its inha-
bitants.
On the'r wisdom and patriotism we
rely, for the adoption of such measures as
will indemnify us for injuries received, and
place our commerce on that independent
and refpe&able basis, due to a sovereign
and neutral nation. But should the town
decide in favor of adopting a measure of
such extent and importance, as to have
already occupied the attention of Congress
for many weeks—we (hall conceive it our
duty to rcmonftrate against the proceed
ing, with such arguments, as appear to us
fuffieient to (hew the ill policy and inex
pediency of it. We therefore pray that
the town will for the present suspend the
further consideration of the fubjeft.
To Thomas Crafts, £fq.
Moderator of the Town Meeting
now afiembled.
The Pennsylvania Society for promoting
the Abolition of Slavery, &c. &c.
have elected the following members, of
ficers, &c, for the present year, viz.
President—James Pemberton.
Vice-President? —William Rogers, and
William Rawle. . '
Treasurer-—John Evans.
Counsellors—William Rawle, John D.
Coze, Thomas Rofs, George Fisher, Wil
liam Lewi», Joseph Thomas, Abraham
Chapman, Thomas Hartley, Miers Fi(h
er, John Hallowell, Seth Chapman, Sa
muel Sitgreavea, and William Graham.
Secretaries—John M'Cree, and James
Todd.
Committee of Correspondence—James
Pemberton, Willam Rogers, Samuel P.
Grilfitts, Robert Patterfon, Samuel M.
Fox, Jofepk Sanfom, and John Kaighn.
THEATRICALS.
OBSERVER, No. VII.
Last evening the Caremelite, and
Spoiled Child, were performed at the
New Theatre. Mrs. Whitlocl, inthecha
rafter of Matilda, gave more specimens of
gieat theatric powers than even is usual
for her
The Tragedy of the Carmelite is one
of the best ; and it is with much plealure
that the Observer pronounces, the enter
tainment, lad evening, was of the best
kind ; he believes the plays, and perform
ance, taken together, have more merit,
thau any which have been exhibited by
this Company. And with due deference
to the opinion of the managers, he hopes
they will at no great distance of time again
introduce the fame plays.—He is encou
raged to a fit this indulgence for one reason,
which cannot be disagreeable to the play
ers, which is, that the next performance
may, and probably will be in less need of
a prompter ; it cannot be a new idea to
the actors, that the audience, are distressed,
by a too frequent recurrence to the aid, of
that ufeful man, the Prompter.
The Observer hints to Mrs. Whitlocl;
the wold 1 thy' (he sometimes pronounees
< the'—would not a uniformity, of • thy,'
be bettter ? For instance, ' support me in
' the armt' and • turu thy dear eyes upon
me.' Why this change of pronunciation ?
Mrs. Whitloci is so much a favorite with
the Observer, that he is unwilling to leave
any thing, in her performance, uncorrect
ed. To be particular, in a recital of me
rit, in the performance of last. evening,
would exceed the reasonable length of this
lie etch ; The Observer is juftifiaLle ja fay
| ng it was excellent.
Lift of American veflels in Port Louis,
and where bound.
Ship Elizabeth, Cathcart,
Chace, Talman,
Cleopatra, Hews,
Union, Rich,
Aurora, Meeks,
Henry, Gibaut,
Eliza, Delano,
3 Brothers, Brown,
Benjamin, Oufcee,
Diana, Coffin,
Brig Vigilant, Murphy,
Snow Betsey, Page,
Abigail, Jenks,
Elizabeth, Wooes,
Equality, White,
Aftrea, Crowninglhield,
Pigou, Louis,
Gray, Gray,
Arrivals at New-Tork.
Brig Neptune, Sullivan, Guernsey
Minerva, Wade, Jamaica.
Ten fail of the homeward bound fleet
from Jamaica, are loft on the Command
ers.
The address to • the Obferncr* and
a friend to Merit, in our next.
PRICE of STOCKS.
6 per cents, 17/9
3 ditto, Cff
Deferred, g/ij
U. 6. Bank, 9 per cent. ad*.
Pennsylvania do. yt ditto ditto.
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROW EVENING, March 7,
Will be performed,
A NEW COMEDr,
(ftever performed here) called
Every one has his Fault*
Lord Norland, Mr. Whitlock.
Sir Robert Ramble, Mr. Chalmers.
Mr. Solus, Mr. Morris.
Mr. Harmony,
Captain Irwin,
Mr. Placid,
Hammond,
Mr. Bates.
Mr. Fennel],
Mr. Moret >n.
Mr. Green.
Porter, Mr. Warrell.
Edward, Mrs. Marfhatl.
Lady Eleanor Irwin, Mrs. Whitlock.
Mrs. Placid, Mrs. Rowfoo.
Miss Spinster, Mrs. Bates.
Miss Wooburn, Mrs. Morris.
The Epilogue by Mrs. Whitlock.
At the end of the Comedy,
A COMIC DANCE,
Composed by Mr. Francis, called ,
The SCHEMING CLOWN,
OR, THE
SPORTSMAN DECEIVED
By Mr. Francis, Mr. Darley, jun. and
Mrs De Marque.
To which will be added,
A FARCE, in two Acts, (performed
here but once) called
T'he Village Lawyer.
Scout, Mr. Harwood.
Snarl, Mr. Francis.
Sheepface, Mr. Bates.
Justice Mittimus, Mr. Warrdl.
Charles, Mr. Cleveland.
Mrs. Scout, Mrs. Rowfon.
Kate, Mrs. Bates.
Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarters
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.
For Amsterdam,
The new fact-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
fiSl ADRIAN A,
wUimmLlM. Fitzpatrick, Master.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or pafTage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
-board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. iff JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflcngcr6 will be landed in Eng
land if requited.
March 6, 1794.
T X THEREAS an alias fubpcena hai ilTued
V V out of the Supreme Court of thti Com r
monwcalth, at the suit of Marcakit Evm.i,
Upon a pr Jif ion preferred bv the fa id Madca
r it, piayiug lor a Divorce f»om the bunds of
Matrimony,entered int» with Roiirt Evans.
Thil ik to givr notice to the said Robert, iliac
he b<* and appear at the (aid Supreme Court, \o
be held at thr C»ty of Philadelphia on Monday
the fiver, th day of April next, at the State-Hnuff
in 'he la*d Cify, to answer the matters alleged
Id the laid
Wii. CHAFMA*.
Sheriff Swt* Coißtf.
*«•!»
«T9*.
T, Ktitrt tNu.
Boston
ditto
ditto
ditto
Salem
ditto
New-York.
Calcutta
ditto
Madras
" Oitenil
R. Island
ditto
ditto
Baltimore
SalemTo be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nthday us April next,
at the house of John Thotnfon> in Perth-
Antboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
THE Lot contains eleven acres, on which is
an orchard ol grafted apple trees, a well of
excellent water, a large (lone cistern, and a very
commodious ftablc and eoacH-houfe, and a great
quantity of the best buitding (tones in the walls
of the house, which was formerly built lor the
rcfidencc ol tlie Governors of New-Jersey. The
fituatioo of this Lot is so well known for its
healtluncfs ?nd beadtiful profpeA of the Rariton
river to the weft of the bav, and Sandy-Honk to
the calk, that a further description isunneccffary.
The conditions of sale one third of the
purchase money to be paid on the fit ft day of
May next, when a good and (trfficient Deed will
be given to the purchaser, by Waltir Ru
th f.r fur d, Esq. Prefidcnt of the Board of
Pioprictors of the Eastern Division of Ncw-
Jersey, and the remaining two thirds faiisfa&o
rily secured in equal annual payments.
By order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Register.
Perth* Amboy, February 5,1794. 2aw2m
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public, That from the encouragement
he has received, from several refpe6fcabfe Gentle
men. lie is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his feivice* to
al! those Gentlemen, who can place confidence
In him ; and he allures those who employ him,
thai thf ir confidence (hall not be misplaced;—
but it (hall be his constant endeavor, to pay the
ftri&fft attention to their best intefeft, in all nc
gociations whatever. He has :aken the Chamber,
in State-Street, « v cr Mr. David Townfend y Watch
Makei's Shop.——Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of all kinds, are bought and fold; and
where Commiflion Bufiuefs of all kinds, will be
trthfa&ed on • eafonable tfrms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be constantly exposed forfale, on
Comimffion.
* # * Cash paid for Salem, Providence, and
Ponfmouth BILLS.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, o r
New-York /has any Buftnefs to tranfafl at Bofign*
in Paper Negotiations, he will be happy to be em
ployed op commijfion.
Bolton, Jan. 24, 1794.
War Department.
January 3oth 1794.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military invalids of the United States,that the
(inns to which they are entitled for fix months
pt their annual penlion, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on the sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
tri-. by ihc Cotnmiftionets of the Loans
w;' hv,» ;he llales rffptitivcly, under the usual re
gii!ati< ns.
Applications oi txecutors and administrators
ill be accompanied with 'cg.il evidence of
th .r refpe&ive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pen (ion they may claim.
By command of thr President
ot the United States,
H. KNOX,
Sea elary oj War.
The printers in (he ■ <.: ct;v.-- {lates are
iV;I ilic on v in liicir newfpa
p." ' 1 -1 \hc I j.'.-.C ot IW<; It.
J'""«V ?a.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SAL£ BY
M. Carey, No. 118.Hiph-ftreet,
" :e PROMPTER;
C . ntart on Common Savings and
jF.cTS* which are full of Common
Sh .vsE, the beji sense in the world.
.vniicn in a stile altogether
i>v i, and s adauted to all capacities, as
sto all < l-.ir s oi people, mcrchan s, me
s and Irfrmrrs. Such a reputation has this
•-quired, ih"at it has pa fled thio three im-
' "• i'! S ' f'r h^ok.
Pr '1i the eastern dates, and many houle
fe .% deem it so ufeful as to purchase a copy
tor every adult in theii families.——Pr ice as.
February 4. dti
Notice is hereby given,
r the subscriber has been dnly ap-
X pointed Administratrix on the estate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, iu the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herfelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law dire&s—and all persons in
teiefted, are desired to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
ALL pcrfonswho have any demands against
the Eftatc of his late Excellency JOHN
H ANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requfefted to
ex«»»bit the fame to the Subscriber, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who stand indebted to said Estate, are
r< quested to fettle with him immediately ; as the
A& of Limitation of Actions, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
otherwise render it necessary for him to com
mence suits against them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requefled to insert this in their
refpe&ive newspapers, and forward their ac
couots for the Tame, to J. M
BOOKS.
A CHOICE COLLECTION,
In the various branches of Literature, im
ported by the last arrivals from Europe,
for Sale at very reasonable prices, by
James Kennedy,
A r o. 26, Spruce, between Front &id Streets,
Among which are the following :
CHAMBERS'S Di&ionary of Arts and Sci
ences, Vols. Folio.
Henry's Bible and Commentary, 6 Vols. Folio.
Universal History, 7 Vols. Folio.
Churchill's Colle&ion ol Voyages, 6 Vols. Folio.
Palladio's Architc&urc, best Edition, 2 Vols.
Folio in one.
Rapin's History of England, with Tindal's con
tinuation, 3 Vols, Folio.
Hume's History of ditto, with Smollct't ditto.
14 Vols. Octavo.
Ma ft on's complete Treatise of Perfpeftive, 2
Vols, in one.
B»uce's Travels, London Edition, 5 Vols.
Clavigero's History of Mexico, 2 do. do.
History of America, 2 de. do.
Maclaurin's Newton's Philosophy, 4to.
M'Knight's Harmony of the Gospels, do.
Lowman on the Revelatious, do.
Locke on the Epistles, do.
Ledwick's Antiquities of Ireland, do.
Whitehui ft's Theory ot the Earth, do.
Glass's Account of the Canary Islands, do.
The Annual Register, from its Commencement
to 1791, inclusive, 34 Vols.
Niebuhr's Voyage to Arabia, 2 Vols, O&avo.
Bartram's Travels thro' the Southern States.
Some of the very latest and best Colle&ions ol
Voyages and Travels.
Creviers Lives of the Roman Emperors 10 Vols.
O&avo.
L'Aniiquite expliquee par B. Montlaucon, 15
Tom. to.
Antiquiies d'Egypte par Nordcn.
Diftionnaiie Hiftorique 9 Tom.
Theatre de Voltaire eleg. relic, 9 Tom.
Hiftoire Romain par Rollin, 16 Tom,
Oeuvresde Boileau, de Moliere, &c. with many
others equally good. A Catalogue of which
may be seen at ihe place of Sale.
He has also for Sale,
An excellent Hadley's Quadrant.
A few Acromatic Pocket Perfpe&ive GlaflTes.
A Camera Obfcura.
A capital German Flute, with 6 Keys, and ad
ditional joints.
And a few elegant colour'd Prints,
Feb. 28
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, ai well as
tliofe of the public in-general. —
He continues to make and repair at the
shortest notice, all kinds o4*pleafure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots,-phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees,.chaifes, kitte
reens, windsor futkevs and chairs, and harness
of every description, fn the ideate.", and newcft
fefliion now prevailing in the United Staves.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, ard capital workmen, he has
not the Isaft butf lie will be able to give
fatisfaftion to those who please-to employ him.
He has for sale, fever a) carriages aim oft
finiflied, such as coachees, ari Italian windsor
chair, hung 011 ileel springs, a light phseton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
d2m
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, i 794- m&t3m
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Reprefentati c ves J
December 21^,1793.
WHEREAS the Commiflioners of public
Accounts, have reported, that they can
not procced to the inve(ligation of ine Treasury
Accounts, refpefting special Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation Therefore,
Refolvcd, That all holders of special Indents
be direftedf and required, on or before ihc full
day of November n< xt, to deliver the special In
dents in their poflVflion to one or other of the
Commiflioners of the Trca/ury, who are to give;
receipts for the fame, and to report to tbeCom
m'flioners on public accounts* on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
thei* refptttively received, and also to the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next.
And that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, /hall be, and the fame are
hereby barred.
Rejolved, That public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And that the Delegates of this
State in the Congress of the United States, be re
qucftfcd to Cause this resolution to be publifaed
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadcl.j
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
ir.ade for the fxpences attending such publica-
Ordefed, That the resolution be sent to the
•Senate for their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SANFORD DART, C. H. R.
In tht SENATE,
December 21(1,1793.
Resolved, That this House dot concur with the
House of Representatives in the foregoing v«fo
lutions.
Ordered, That the resolutions be leut »o the
House of Representatives.
By order of the Senate,
ewtNov,
*4teop.
FELIX WARLLY, Clerk,
FOR SALE,
By MATHF.W CAREY, No. 118.
Market-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery:
Dcfigned to exhibit in a new point of view,
its etfe&s on moiu/s y indujlry, and the peace of
ociety. Some ta&s and calculations are offered
to prove the labor of Jrecmen to .be much more
produdive than that of Jlaves ; that countries arc
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the nrceffary conclusion, that
fUvcry is impolitic as well as unjujl.
dtf
Price 25 Cents.
February 15,
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to CQnfine himfelf
encircly to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b.gs leave to of
ftr his ferviccsto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him wilh their business, may depend
upon having it (ranfa&ed with the uimoft fide
lity and difpaich.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boflon, or any
other part of the United States, will he ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
Phi ladelphi a, February 13, 1794.
PROPOSALS
For printing by Subscription,
A Work, to be entitled,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Penirfylvania State Trials.
THE want of Sufficient information of the
state trials of Gieai-Britain in the early
periods, of that government is now latnerrted :
Mi herto there hath been but one trial in the
state of on impeachment :—ar.d
herealfo it is to be tegrctted, that, being neg
lected at the time, the public are now left with
out Sufficient information on the fubjeft of that
trial, it is however in this work defigued to ref
cucfwhatcan be collc&cd thereof fiom fouices
ol indifputaple authority, f 0 that the fame ftiall
be preserved from oblivion.
Another impeachment and the fccond is now
depending. An officer is charged by the late
Honfeof Representatives, who hath for many
years been largely confided in by this (late,and
hath long bien at the head of the financial de
partment of the fame, and it imports the citi
zens to know his condu&, and the circumstances
which may be brought toiward on his trial.
lathis work the Editor will be canful to
state the fa£ts, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers before
the public.—With this view—
The following "Terms are refpeSfully
submitted to the Public :
I. The Work shall be primed in o£lavo, with a
good type, on fine paper, and delivered to
fubferibers at the »cfpe&ive places where the
subscriptions arc taken in, as loon as the work
shall be compleated.
11. As no eonje&ure can well be made, as to
the length of the present tn?l, the fiz.e of the
volume cannot be afccrtaijied ai this -time
But the priee (ball {jot exceed that of fomeof
the latest publications in this city.
111. It will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental circumstances that may occur during
the trial of John Nicholfon r Esquire, Comp.
troller-General of this commonwealth, with
theargutnents of counsel o» both fides, together
with the articles of impeachment, arid the
picas and replications at large, the several ie
folutions of the two branches of the state Le
gislature, refpe&ing this impeachment, and
the final dectfion of the SENATE refpe&ing
that officer.
To which will be prefixed, as much as can be
colle&ed from authentic documents, of the im
peachment, trial, and aequital of *he late. Francis
Hopkinfon, Esquire, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty for the state of P ( nnfylvania, during
the late war, never before pnblifhed.
No money will be required before the deli
very of the book.
Subscriptions will be received by Francis
Bailey, No,. 116, High'-ftreet ; Wriglcy and. Bcr
riman, No. 149, Chefnuuftreet, and by the dif
ferent book-fellers in (his city; Jacob Bailev,
Lancaster ; Yundt and Patton, Baltimore, and
by ihe Editor.
EDMUND HOG AN.
N. B. The price will be enhanced to non
fabferibers. 'Feb. 18. taw if
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON the 31ft of last month, the fubferiber ad
dreffcd a letter to MtflYs. Thomas Pearjall
$3 Son, merchants in New-York, arid inclosed
therein a bank note, No. 445, for twenty dol
lars ; one ditto, No. 151, for thirty dollars;
and one ditto, No. 3,866, for twenty dollars.
—He also addressed a letter to Mr. Gilbert
Saltonjiall, merchant in New-Yoi'<, inclofinga
bank bill, No. 148, for fifty dollais, indoifed
on ihe back thereof in tlrcfc- words—•' Pa} the
v. it hi n 10 Mr. Gilbert Saltonjiall—Fben. Hunting
ton.*'—He also addressed a letter to Messrs. White
& Wardell y merchants in and inclo
sed a bank bill foi ten dollars, and a draft in fa
vor of fa id White & War dell, which letters were
put in the Poft-Office on said 31ft January, to
be foiwarded to New-York : But by letters re
ceived from the Gentlemen to whom they were
severally addressed, the money was robbed
from each letter before delivery.
The Public are liquefied to endeavor a de;
te&ion of the Villains who committed the above
tobbery. The bill iudoifed, I think was » Yoik
bank bill, and some rithers, one or more was
of the United Sta'cs bdnk, remitted a< Philadel
phia. Any peilon discovering the Thief,• and
returning the Mooey, (hall be entitled to fifty
dollais reward.
EBEN HUNTINGTON.
Norwkhh 14th Feb. 1794. gwgu*
J! RECOMPENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby offered by the Prefidem and Direc
tors of the Kank of the United States, to any
pfcrfdn who ftiall, on or before the firft day of
May next, produce to them such a plan and ele
vation of a Banking Houfc, as ftiall be approved
of by them.—-A plain, yet hand tome Iront is
desired : The whole building is to be fubifantial
and commodious with as much fpacc around it,
as the size of the ground will admit.
The Lot on which the building is to beeredl
ed, is situated on the weft fids ot Third-ftrcet,
between CheCuut and Walnut-flrceis in Phila
delphia ; and its dimcnfions arc no feet on
Third-street, and about too feet westward.
THOMAS WILLING, Prcfidcnt.
»p 3 W -
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, deducting 15 per Cent. from
the Prizes—this Lottery confijls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
*4*539 Prizes and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize,
THE Directors of the Society for eftabiiftung
Ufetul Manufactures, having resolved to
ere& LOTTERIES for raising One Hundred
Thousand Dol lars, agreeably to an Ast of
the of the State of New-Jersey, have
appointed the following persons to superintend
and dire£l the drawing ol the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rtifns King, Herman Le Roy, james
Watson, Richard Hainfon, Abijah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city ol New-York—
Thomas Willing; Joseph Rail, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew Bayard, of the city of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
Kliar- Boudinot, General Elias Dayton, Jam «
Parker, John Bayard, Do&or Lewis Donham,
Samut 1 W. Stockton, Jofbua M. Wallace, Joseph
Bloomfield, and F.liiha Boudinot, of Nc w-Jer
fey, who offer the following Scheme of a Lot
tery, and pledge themselves to the public, that
they will take every atfurancc and precaution in
their power to have the Monies paid by tho
Managers, from tiive to time, as received, into
the Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for ihepurpofeof paying Priz s, which
(hall be immediately discharged by a check
upon one of the Banks.
SCHEME
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 20,00®
1
1
2
5
10
20
100
3°°
1000
10,000
5,000
2,000
1 ,coo
s°°
100
5°
20
1 5
12
10
2000
3000
8100
1 4>539
23,461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Laftdrawn number, 2,000
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars cach is 266,000
The drawing will commence, under the in
fpedion of a Com mil tee of ihe Superintendents,
as soon as the Tickets are fold,ot which timely
not ice Will be given.
The Superiniendants have appointed John N.
Gumming, of Newark, Jacob R. Hrrdenberg,
of New-Br«nfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample fecuiity for discharging the
trust reposed in them.
(£3* In order to fecurethe punQu l payment
of the Pi izes, the Superimendarits of the Lottery
have dire&rd that the Managers flrall each enter
into bonds in 4c,000 dollars, with f»ur futficient
fecund s, to perform their iuftru&ions, the luiw
flancc of which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
shall receive the futn of Three Hundred Dollars,
he shall immdiately place thefame in one of the
Banks of Ne-.v-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit of the Governor of the Society, and such
of the Superintendents as live in the city where
ihe monies are placed, to remain there until the
Lottery is drawti, for the payment of the Prize*.
11. The Managers to take fufficient security
for any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
refpontible for them.
111. To keep iegular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received ar.d paid into ihe Bank, ab
ft'a&s of which Pnall be sent, monthly, 10 the
Governor of the Society.
Pdterfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle
men, information will be given where tickets
may be had.
February 24.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —alio a Country Seat
wiihin 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded bymany in the vicinity
of the city, in lize or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound. '
Enquire of the Editor.
PHILADELPHIA:
Printed ev JOHN FENNOVvf|(h 3»
South FpuitluSaect* <
10,000
10,000
i 0,000
10,000'
I a,OOO
10,000
15,000
20,000
30,000
36,000
81,000
262,000
tawif.
niAtb— tf