f
e
i
EVEN
im. 94 of Vol. v.]
For Sale,
American Brig
r i to n,
"BURTHEN 700 barrels, with her tackle
•and apparel as (he came from sea, She is a
llaiiach vtffel, not two years old, and maybe
piit to tea immediately. For terms apply
Gardiner & olden,
Arch Street wharf,
Who have for fate,
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
a quantity of Baton, Bees Wax, and a few
calks Timothy Seed—also
Pig and Bar Iron, and Iron cast
iggSv iu any form executed on the
shortest nodce.
March 14.
For Amsterdam,
The new faft-failipg, cepper-
J&V bottomed SHIP
|gg ADRIANA,
•«m K. Fitmatrick, Master.
BLJI.LT of live oak and cedar and was in.
tended fw a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient f"rtsd- For freight or paffagt,
havmg (txcellftit accommodations, apply on
board tt Walnut ft«et wharf, or to
THOS. fcf JOHN K£TIAND.
N,. B. will Tje U»d«d in Eng
land jj required.
Mar-ji 6, 1794. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
Z ANDROMACHE,
I (An American bottom)
*2£-ri rrHTrefa »■ John Moore, Majier.
IS a .flout good vessel, about two years old,
twos, Ims only made three voy
(gcs), a< tl uiay be ent to iia at a (mall e*-
peote. #Ie may be seen at Vjne.ftr e et wharf,,
aud the terms made kuown by application to
f r H'TtARTOX & LEIVIS.
M»rfh 2i. d t f
For Norfolk & freclericksburgh,
«^fe^.LITTli 1 SALLY,
John Earl, Mailer.
, A staunch gcod vefTel, will fail in a few
days. For freight or p: lliige, apply to the
master on board at Chefuut ftrect wharf, or
to
yOS£PH ANTHONT fcf SON.
Marsh 31. dtf
Just Imported,
in the Ship Apollo, Capt. FHzpatvict,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
011 Walnut-ftrect wharf, viz.
GIN i» pipes,
bales Holland Durk,
Ditto Ozriaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
■Girji Wart, viz., Tumkltrs+nd Mugs, va
rious fIZCS.
Shcaibing Paper,
S-VJedts Inn, square andflat bars,
Ttair Ribband, No. 4.
btitrh Great Coats,
A quantity ttf Jitttk and Obtur*, &e. £S*c;
to*. SAL* »Y
THOMAS KETLAND, Jan.
The ttiovt-mmxitHKd Ship is frf $aie~~
Ihouldapplication be made 'within a few Hays ;
ether-wife Jhe taie freight far Amjer
dam.
_M»nth r, 1754, d—tf
wanted 1 "
AN APPRENTICE
To the Priming Bulinefs, Enquire at this
OftvCe.
ADVERTISEMENT.
To the diilreftied inhabitants of St. £)o
mingo now in Philadelphia.
The diflribulion of the money ailstted to
ttiMn Ti'illbt made on W&dnefday next, at the
fundi. WeA corner ofWalnut asdWater ftreeu
from sine o'clock'till noon, and from three
♦o five afternoon.
Aux Habitants de St- Domingue de nuc«
d e toute Facult-e a Philadelphie.
La Diitribuuorj de la fomme accordee fe sera !
Mt clttii protein, air Coin de!a Rue fud ouelt
1' Eau &De Ja R uc <j e Walnut, ent re oeuf
♦fbw* m»«* & iW Weis &CiiKj« apics midi.
ipSr The Printers of Philadelphia, are re-'
queued to republic the above.
k/
oißCttC of tfee
"tfiot
IN G AD V E R T I S
Tuesdav, April i, 1794.
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States» and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America t
federal of which have appeared in circulation
<within a f'w days paji ; they art m goad ge
neral mutation of the genuine Bills, but mdj
be diflinguijhed by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar qf the fkwi of the
United States.
ALL that havo appeared havi the letter t
ft>' their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture n$ the Paper is thick- r and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. fn the word Company ij fmillel*
than the I\T. and pther l< tters of that uiurd,
ft> thita lineeicteiided from rhe tnpof ihe Q,
to toiioh the t.'p of the M wouW extend tori
(id<ra(<ly abave the rv'gs of the wliola word.
Iu th. woj4 United the letters are narrow,
ei and clufer together than the tail qf the bill
The i ai)d yipthp void promilis aie not
parallel, the /inclining much more torwarJ
than the i.
The engraving is badly {bokes
of all tlie feller* are ftrottgei and the tk'»i p
in the margin particularly ismueh coarfirr
appears darker than in the true bills, Some
at the counter!'. it* bear dare iH I>gi—Where
's the Bank was nut in »peration till Dectm
ier, and no five dollar w *ra illuiJ in
hat ye^r.
Twenty Policy Bills of ths Ifani of Nortl.
America•
ALL that have appeared have the letter
I for their alpliabctic.a.l mark.
Thfjp are printed oh a paper nearly Hoiilar
o'tljjifc of the counterfeit |Fwt Dollar Notes
above described ; the engraving \% bcitei exe
cuted x an<j they appjro?ch fearer to the ap»
pea<r%oee of fehegCHuiue i>ills.
The fine i uled lines through 'he word Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, are in number thir
teen in the genuine b Us, ants but twelve in
counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the Tame
word in the Five DoNar B iis j>s defoi ib«:d a
bove, i the 9 bfiiig Jeis thaw *
following.
There no stroke to {he tin the word
whereas in the genuine bilts the stroke is weK
defined.
The letters tnt in the word Twenty, to the
fcft hand at the bottom, do no< <:ortfe dowii to
the line, bqt ar? so 991: as to giv? an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw the"/ go
ing below them.
The Signature J. Nixon, h-a* the appear
ance of being written with laißt>-bU£it and
oil, and differs from the otjier *nk#uncdjij
printing the bills and the cathiei's lignature.
It is luppoftd these forgeries wefc committed
fn some ot the Southern States, aU the coun
terfeits that have appeared, have co*ie from
tiience, and two per sons have been iippvfhead
ed in Virginia, on fuCpicion ot being the authors
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND HOLLARS
will be paid to any PeiCon or Pcrfon* who <huli
discover and profecutc to couvi&iou the leveral
offenders of the following defcriptious or any
of them, viz.
The per foil or persons, who mttnufa&ured
tlie paper on which tbc fiilils are printed.
The pcjfwu peifoo#, wlio engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, ®f the bills.
t-very person who has atted as a principal in
any other way, in the coumutemng and utter*
mg the £ud Wlls.
THOMAS WILLING, President
of the Bank United St*t<_*.
J6HN NIXON, PreWfelft of the
Bank ot Nonh Attienc«.
8? order of the Committees of che &ef.
petti ve Boards.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794* dtf.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogtUeads and 111 tafei of 50 bottles eacb.
AUO,
A few cases Charapaigne Wiae ;
MADEIRA,
In f ipci, hogsheads and quartei casks,
-so* SAtE *r
JOHN VAWGHAN,
No. ui, South Ftout luccl.
J»«. *, 179*.
Mordecai Lewis,
for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dodi-
StreM :~
A few Bales ot Ruflid Sheetings,
Barcelona Baodkerchicffs in Boxes,
A of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Btimftone,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. £0. 3'aw6w
The following Certifi
cate of the funcjcd three ptr Cent Stock of
Doiii ltic Debt of the United 5 ares (landing on
the books of the Tieafuty of the said United
, in the names of Donnatd and' Burton of
Londpu, merchants, and by Jofepfi
Xouife, Rejiitpr of ftjtd 'freafuty, to vit Itt
No. dated 24th A u £uft for 2359
dailar> and 33 cents was tlsin'mitfrd from Lon
don m lhe;ttiip Peter, PauJ Hutfcy, m*(ler,
bound for New York, and lias been loft.
The Subfcrib-r i*:ei»ditjg iq apply to (he Tfea
fury of the United States to have the fame re
ntfutd, defues all perfoiis who ave intcielfyd in
the fji<) certificate, to make their obje&ioiu
thereto, if any they have.
Francis Macy.
Pii'U4. Mtrch d6w
*VR SALS,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. „ 8 ,
Maiket-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery:
Deligned io exlnbit in a new point of view,
«• HfcS« »" morals, ivdujiry, and the piac, a s
ftcttty. Some fafti a nil ratculadopi are offered
<o prove the labor o\ jrecmtn to be much more
fttiußnt than that ol fines ; that countries art
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring pi ople enjoy the fruits of their owp
Mior ; and hence the nictffaiy conclusion, that
iljvciy is impolitic as well is wjuji.
Price 25 Cents.
February 15. d t f
Seory fatgpf Wi^bwd.
"• /High Com* as Plittntci r.
BenjaminGaither > Jts*'chjth. »7j)4.
-and S*
Basil L.»ither ■* -
The Complainant; states
in his ijilJ that the defendant* Benjamin {>;ii
and G*it|ier were in tee as
tenants in common of a tract of land in Fre
drick C«tt"{.v, called Hammond's Strife ; —
thlat being i'o leiled, Basil executed a power
ot attorney to Benjamin authorizing him to
foil his, the laid Bafil't iim-feft in the lad
land, that afterwards (lie fijid Benjamin fold
the iaid land to a certain William Oaither for
tnc coalitfcratioii ofiix hundred pound-, whicli
iiatnbeen since paid, tfiat the raid >Vjri'iam
hath assigned to the Complainant Hpnjw Raj'e
the bond executed by rhp laid Bei jan>iii for
rlre conveyanceot t.ie lard'land : The Com
plainant now further ltates (ar:d so appears
to the Chancellor] that the
no«-refidents of tfie it ate of Maryland, and
herefore out of rtie reacil of the of
t-his court.
It w therefore adjudged afld ordered ; that
the Complainant procuie a copy of'tins or
der tube inserted in the newspaper of Anjell
and Sul.ivao, and in the 'Uivimi St>te; Gazy t g
« teuft three weeks ■fiiCccffiv'ejy, brefoie the
twentieth 4»y of May ne*t ; to the in ten J
that the Defendants and all tjtSerj, who jiiay
conceive themfrives interested in the n,iT
es, may have notice to appear in this t<wrr,
on or before rile tliiid Tuctidwy in Sejitenfber
next, to Ihew cause wherefore a decree lhould
not pals for veftuig in tlieComplainanr.a com
plete legal title to {lie laud aforefaid.
Trtt
SAMUEL HARVEV HOWARp,
Reg. Cur. Con.
March »8. tuihtojw
TItEASURrofPgIVNS YLy4XIA,
Jf-eUrwy 14, ii9A.
L)Udl4£ Notice is hejeby £iy*u to all j>cii<*n<
i indebted 10 toj ino c
ot the Trustees tjje iqan Office,
eflablilhed per ol t|ie 4tfi of April, 178$,
thai ihe ume is expired w'nen ihe UU -pay mcnt
JfcouUJ beep aind cye^.y
ia4wlgen.ee turnip £r*rued, uailtl*
they come toiward and pay »off their itiue&ivc
balances on 01 before the firft day ot Apni ucxi,
precepts wiW llfuc ag«i»R all vrith
oat -to pedoo* W A'li
fonncr Ihjentfa* Wfr 1 * -
irt their hands to (aid Oflice, are rc
■qntUexl to bring it 10 ine on or md above
•Venod, other wilt i fh 41 be und< i the
ablc ucceHiiy ot A>rolc4;ui.|\g firf
tindioi).
CHRISTIAN
P. S. Tht Prifltcts throughout itye State are
sfequoiWd 4-0 ii»lf rt tke above in vhevr pupeis-toi
tlvc intoi maii*>ri <>f-their 4
Stock Brokers Office,
No. *5, W4lliitc«et, &EW.-X&H,k
SnWcnber intendingvio to<»fitie hlrti/elf
entirely to rbe PU& SALH of
SI'OCKS (»n CGMMiSSION, b*gs to 0}
hrs tcrviceeto his (nendi auri othtr-s, in tijt
lineal a Broker. TUoTe yv ho miy pie# if
to favor h'iri wiih their may dcpi jici
upon having it rranfa'£led wtih the moioit fuit
iuy and dilpaich.
Orders. iu>m Philadelphia, Soften, x)r &ny
otlwr ( part et Uk United States, wt\J he
attended to. LEONARE) jj LL£CKEJ<.
E
[Whale No. 555.]
UNITED ST4TES.
BOSTON, March 25.
Copy of 3 letter from a gentleman now
in Prance to hfs friend in this town,
received by the brig Dolphin, just ar
flAed at Providence, dated
Havre, Dec. 30, 1793.
1 wrote you by tht fame opportunity a
fe\y days firice; I then told you of the
fticpeft of the armies of the Republic in
the taking of Taubm and Valenckunet;
this day, being the Demidi, we have been
celebrating the event, or rather rejoicing
with our brethren of this Republic, at
the re-capture of T0,,10n. Thjs morning
arrived here the CQttjirmqUoß of the taking
of Vqleneitinnes ; it is fjtid that the Aujiri,
am loft r4(Ooo killed, and that 6000
caine over and joined the armies of the
Republic, the reft were taken prisoners.
? b? v « also had accounts that the re-
Ijelp at La Vendee, are completely cut
yp. On every fide success attends the
French arms.
It fcarccly now admita of a doubt but
that die TREE of LIBERTY, planted
in this country, will take root, and spread
ftsfcranchej over Europe, and that tyran
ny and qpprejjipn will be no more. If
tte f>ray«v 6( an individual will avail any
towards it, I wiH pray without ceasing.
Cangreji of the United States.
ffeufe ef Reprcjentatives
Subtlanfe of the remarks made by Mr. Giles
on the ioth of March r-04, upoij the
qtieftioi} tor thp paflage of the bill provi
ding a naval armament.
Another objection to the measure, con
sists of the certainty and enormity of .the
expeuce, with a total uncertainty of its
efficacy; whereas the plan of ptirchaiing
a peace, regard* oeconomy, if its efficacy
should he doubtful : in this cafe, if the
objed be not e fatted, the money will
h<pt be expended. It is but a bad characi
ter of a measure, to fay it is neither cer
tain in its object, nor (Economical in its
arrangement; yet these ait the mod ftri
•king traits iti the present bill. When
this measure was flrtt brought into view,
if was thought neceflary that an estimate
I it,this eftimate,he knew
1 11 qt for what reafon,was kept out of view.
' It was nevertheless an estimate, and mult
; again make its appearance in the npufe.
He expected too, that it wonld apppear
ii) a mons formidable shape ;han when it
was iirft introduced. The pay of the
feamefl, the most important item in the
| estimate, had varied its (hape materially :
It is novy calculated at double the estimate
; fir ft -made, and he apprehended that the
fame fate would attend other parts of the
estimate. He admited that the sum men
tioned in the bill, did not positively ffx
the wages of the seamen, but was in
tended as a limit to the Pt-efident's
discretion: He was inclined to think
however, from the nature of the
that the whole sum would be found jie.
peflary ; for all the otherperquifites, whieh
the seamen will expedt, mult consist of toil
and danger.
tje oblerved, that the intelligence late
ly received, in his opinion, served to con
firm all those objections, although he sup
posed it had affected the minds of other
gentlemen very differently ; because he
had observed more votes in favor of the
bill, Unce the receipt of the
than before that period. The intelligence
being communicated in confidence, he fup
poM it would be improper to particular
ise those parts of it, which affected his opi
nion : He Ihould therefore, only remaik
in genera), that the intelligence had led
bis to two copclufions.
lit. That .the forcc to 1 fed, i*
abfolytely inadequate to tl . 3 .
That by proper . iue-
R.ientlon to time and opportunity, a prace
tniy be effected by money. In cither cafe,
the natal armament would be rendered
unncceflitry, and the expeuce .-.ought nut
to be incurred. : .
Mr. Giles proceeded to tottGder the bill
as die foundation of a permanent naval es
tablishment.
He &id there was a clause in the bill au
thoring the President to suspend all pro
ceedings in the equipment of the armament
in cafe of a peace with Algiers, which- gave
himjome consolation ; but it did not altoge
ther relieve his apprehensions from this ope
ration t>f the measure, because he knew that
a permanent naval eftahlilhment was a favor
ite policy with some gentlemen, and because
the argument had been urged in favor of the
present bill. v
He observed that a permanent naval eila
blifhment coidd be recommended to the
United States, but from one or both of the
following considerations. Either upon the
principle of entering into a competition for
naval power with the powers of Europe; or
as affording security to the collection of our
own revenue.
He thought the question of a permanent
naval establishment, was one of the raoft im
portant, which could be presented to the
consideration of the house, and that the most
serious consequences were neceilarily con
nected with it. In the firft place, he viewed
the eftablilhment of a navy as a complete
I|flercli<Sion of the policy of discharging the
principal of the public debt. Hiftorydoes
not afford an instance of a nation which con
tinued to encreafe their navy, and decreased
their debt at the fame time. It is an operation
exceeding the ability of any nation. The
naval competition of the powers in Europe
has oppression to their fubjecfls, and
rum to themselves. The ruin of French mo
narchy, he believed, might be ascribed very
much to that cause. A navy is tlTe most ex
pensive of all means of defence, and the ty
ranny of governments consists in the expen
fivenefs of their machinery. The expen
fivenefs of the French monarchy is the true
.cause of its defirwftion. The navy of France
furnifhed the principal item of that expence.
The navy produced expence, the expence ex
ceeded the revenue, newcontributionsbecame
necefiary, the people flw the tyranny an,d de
stroyed the. tyrant. The fame efi'eft by the
fame policy, will probatbly be produced in
Great Britain. The government is not yet
deflroyed, but the people are opprefled, li
berty is banished. The exienfmenefs of the
government is the true ground of the oppref-
Jian of the people. T,he king, the nobility,
the priesthood, the army, and above all the
naij.
( Speech to be continued.)
For the Gazette of the United Stages,
Mr. Fen no,
War! War! War! Embargo! Em
bargo ! Embargo ! Are the pass words
now, with some people among us, and in
two or three inftanccs, 1 have seen that a
man who offers a contrary opinion, is in
danger of getting a black eye, and a bloody
nose—but who are those, you may a Ik,
that thus violate the rights of opinion, which
our blefled conflitution and laws, allow to
every free born Citizen of the United
States ? They are men, (except one) who
do not own a timber head, in any Ship or
J'ejfel—they are men who have lately made
large purchases of different kinds of goods,
under an idea, that an Embargo, and a
war will soon take place—and that one,
cr both events mull in their consequences,
give them an opportunity of mating great
profits by their speculations.—This, Mr.
Fenno, is a matter of fail—and is well
known in this City : Let me alk you
then, what mull every honest, industrious
and peaceable Citizen thjnk of men, who
thus with to make fortunes for themselves
at the expence of the ruin of thousands of
poor innocent families. Let me sflc those
gentlemen, what the labouier, the
Mechanic, the Sea-Earing Man, with
their Wives and Children, are to do
for subsistence, in cafe our commerce
should be totally knocked up :—And I
believe it is beyond doubt that it will,
Ihould we get involved in a war—in short
a war mull be certain ruin to the country
in general—but fay the speculators* let it
be so, provided we makefortunes by it.
Among those gentlemen is one (above
excepted) who has lately sprung up among
us as an Orator :—I mull take particular
notice of him. In one of his orations in
"the State House yard on a late occasion ;
he in a very .indecent manner, called on
the men of 76, who are generally under
stood to be those who had fought and bled
to eftablilh our liberties—let me now call
on him, and ailc him where he was at
that period, or what he did in support of
that cause ? Surely it is a fa£t well known
• he a lat time pofiefled any fixed
politicks,, it was rather in
fav. tive country—and k is e
<; ;a - ,c,tl it till tlie present crisis, he
his never fhnvn a contrary disposition—
but his inierejl alone y regttlaterJiis conduct;
while he was aiding his father in-the pur
iuit of an an:iuiiy, from the Britidl Nati
on, arid reparation for. lufies in this coun
try, which he never fujiaincd, he held up
that nation ; and their Government to the
world, in the molt exalted point of view :
now his ends are accomplished—he coincs
forward with every abuse that language
can bestow upon both nation and Govern
ment ; and such is the man> that I will
venture to afiert, he will be ready to act
the fame part towards this Country,
whenever he (hall iind it conducive to his
private emolument—a party spirit, added
to some other circumllances, got him' a
feat in our Aflembly ; through the fame
party, he now looks forward to a feat in
the Legi/lature of the United States ; and
yet no man ever expressed a greater con
tempt of another, than he has done of this
party, which he now courts and seems to
adore :—however it is perfectly consistent
with the man—he will descend to any
thing to gratify his avarice, or ambition.
HONESTUS.
March 22, 1794.
Foreign Intelligence.
RECEIVED BY THE
BRITISH JANUARY PACKET.
STOCKHOLM December *7.
Since Ihe new partition of Pu'and, and fijKe
pains have been taken to make Sweden and
Denmark depart from their, neutrality during'
the present war, a new Alliance between ttoofe
two powers fecens to be on the carpec.
According to the last ..ecounis f*om Gotten
burg, the navigation of the Norrhern Occan is !
» »t very fafe, on account of thr piracies which
the Frcnch exercise in u with lrrn miiiy ; which
is the' more easy, as, except two Dutch frigates,
and one Engfifh. the Jail in tbc&nund, thtie are
no other veffcls to Terve th« m as escorts.
The demarkatiOn <ff the 1 mits between this
kingdom and Norway will take place wTthon*
any fuithcr delay.
VIENNA, December ig.
The Letters received here from Couflantinn
ple, dated Noy. 25, bring further particulars »e
---fpe&ing the violation o* the maritime laws kid
to hive been committed in the EafUrn fcas.
A French frigate (ell in with a (hip laden
with merchandise, and bearing Ruffian colours,
in the The French Frigate made
the f..d (hip strike without firing a gun, and
carried her into For. at Smycna.
The Tuikilh miniltry immediately Tent orders
to Smyrna, n-V to f*ll the car K «of the captured
Ship, 'till a drift inquiry (hall have been nude
into ihe matter. The ship is (aid to belong t.fc
Venice, and to have made ule of Ruffian colours
in order to get cutrancc into the jjlafk (ea.
On the B.h. instant, a ftroag eartiiqnake was
felt in Servia, which took its dire£li HI (rem the
Caff to the weft.
NATIONALCONVENTIONor FRANCE
Tiiurfday Jan.
The fallowing letter was read from the Re
presentatives of the people, j. B. Latofte and
Baudot :
" Germerlheim, 9 Nivofe . [29 Dec ]
" The success of the armies of the Mozelle
and the Rhine, dear colleagues, are aftnuilh
1 ! g, and their march is inoft rapid : they ycf
terday made themselves mailers of the im
portant pod of Germerlheim, which covers
Landau, aflures the preservation of the lines
of {Jueich, and opens the door of the Palati
nate. Our brave defenders are, at this, mo
mrnt, within one league of Spires, and we a'e
allured, that the light troops have entered
the Town. We are allured also, that the
Prullians and Auliiiam, in separating, made
'r a<^'eu to each other, 011 coining out of
'he little Town of Bergzabren, with Itmkes
of their sabres. and with a tlilcharre i,{ iheii
fufils.
" The firft'have retired to Neuftadi and
Mayence; the second have rephfltd the Rhine
by three different bridges, which they had tht
wife precaution to rrefV for the purpefc.
It was time ; for if they had not mape
the best use of their legs, for many days
and uights, they would have been "all ex
terminated. Their routs are covered with
prifonets and deserters.
" The courageous perseverance of the
Armies who have delivered Landau, and
of the garrison who preserved it, ought to
procure for them the fame honours as the
Army that besieged Toulon. We believe
that we only participate in your intentions
in expressly desiring it.
" The battle of Kaifberg has proved to
the enemies, that they have nothing but
deftrudlion to look for from the defendersof
the Republic ; after more than four hours
of a charge ; under a terrible and inceflant
fire, not a single soldier (hrunk from the
ratiks, and they fawthe stragglers run
ning in all directions, and at their utmost
speed, to partake in the glory of their in
trepid brothers in arms; thus the victory
was compleat, and afcertaincd the triumph
of the Republic.
" The Enemy have left u» considerable
Magazines at Lautetbourg, and particular
ly of Powder, to which they had put a
match, which they had lighted on their
departure ; it was extinguiihed in the very
ftioment when it was to explode,, and to
blow the City and the part of the Army
that occupied the place in the air.
" The Auftriaos, on their flight, set
fire to many of their magazines. They
hive Jictvever, left us a gieat many fufils,
at Germerfheim ; oats,dry vegetables,flour
and other grain, besides 800,000 rations
of forage at Pymerlheim, and 30,000 co
verlets. ,We depart to-morrow for spires.
" Health and Brotherhood,
" BAUDOT, J. B. LACOSTE."
LEGHORN, December n.
An English frigate arrived the day be
fore yesterday in this harbor, reports, that
Cnce the moment of her departure from
Tunis, effected ten days ago, five (hips of
the line and fix frigates, English and Spa
nish, blocked there a numerous French
fleet.
LONDON, January 8.
Lord Moira, who was in town yester
day set oyt last night for Portsmouth,
where the troops under his command are
collected—The original objedi of this ex
pedition is, we understand, by no means
given up.
The duke of Brunfwick ij £aid to have
gained a complete victory over the French
at Anweller on the 28th, and Wurmfer
is said to have regained the position which
he had on the 24th. It is likewise said,
that Landau is still blockaded. There are
some doubts about the authenticity of
these accounts.
Several hundreds of Burghers, without
diftinftion of profeffion or rank, are work
ing'at the ramparts at Frankfort.
January 9.
Last night a meflenger arrived with
dispatches Jrom Ghent and BrufTels. By
letters from the latter place, dated the 6th
instant, we learn that a part of the British
army had moved to Courtray, whither it
was expected the head-quarters of his roy
al highness the duke of York would be
transferred.
Letters from Manheim and Frankfort,
on the 29th and 30th instant, speak pret
ty confidently of a vi£tory gained by the
duke of Brunfwick over the French, iti
the Valley of Anweller, on the 28th.—
We are sorry to add, that these accounts
are not confirmed by any official intelli
gence.
We extra£l: the following article from,
a BrufTels paper of the 6th instant, enti
tled, " Journal de la Guerre."
"An officer of the regiment of royal
infantry, belonging to the royal Catholic
army, employed in the army of La Ven
dee, was made a prisoner in the affair of
Mans on the 4th of Dec. He was to
have been (hot on the 6th J but he found
means to escape to Paris on foot, and
from thence to the Frontier—he is at this
time at Mons.
" He reports that the royalists army js
not to be numbered. They have 15000
regular troops, Auftrians, Swiss, ancient
Marechauffee and soldiers. They have
not lefsthan zoo pieces of cannon.
The affair of Granville was only meant
as an attempt. Tfcy did not mean to
enter upon a regular siege ; for, though
they had 70,000 men before-the town,
they were not calculated for that kind of
attack, mostly peasants, who strong
ly attached to the cause, were ar.xioust©
have a poll to give up to the royalists.
" They anximifly looked for succours
from England, and particularly a rein
forcement of engineers, and officers of ar
tillery and infantry. It was not till the
beginning of december that they knew
hat the English were disposed to succour
them,
" He laid,, that the affair of Mans cost
each party nine or ten thousand men. The
two armies reciprocally fliot their prison
ers. It was jeftimitid, that the campaign
in La Y endee had colt France more than
two hundred thousand men !
" The royaiifts army bad been twice
almost entirely i;enpwed. They drew their
bett recruits from .Britanny. They con
fidei* the- Bretons as' the flower of, their ar
my. ' _ .
" The plan was, after the affair of Mans,
to march to Paris; but circumstances
had finee occurred to alter that destina
tion."
Januan-io. V
The Flanders mail which arrived this
day, brings the confirmation of the raif.
ing of the blockade of Landau, and the
re-pafling of the Rhine by the Austrian
and Prufiian armies, who, after sb many
victories gained, and the greatest hard-
ihips fufFercd witli the uimofl patience
heroism, were obliged to yield at last to
i th« superior numbers of the Sans-Culottes,
who, ever since the 22d ult. with a force
reckoned at 180, coo men, and a numer
onrs and formidable artillery, made the
molt desperate attacks upon Gen. Wurm
fer and the duke of Brunfwick.
On the 25th the prince Hohenlohe was
(lightly wounded.
011 the 26th the duke of Bjrunfwick
attempted to make an attack, but the
French got the Itart of him, and after
the most bloody conflict, the Pfuffians and
the Auftrians were both obliged to re
treat.
On the 26th, the cordon of General
Wurmfer was also obliged to retreat, af
ter an immense quantity of blood (hed on
both fides. All the inhabitants of Hagu
enau and Weiflembourg, apprehensive left
they Ihould experience the fate of the Ly
onefe, took flight at the approach of the
Patriots, who pnrfued them under the
cannon of Fort Louis.
Many of the unfortunate fugitives were
killed by the cannon of the fortrefs,. and
were obliged to pass the whole night un
der the bare heavens before they could be
admitted.
V 0 ■
X
The French were before Spires on the
29th, and the military hcfpitalof the Prus
sians has been removed thence.
t From Haguenau to Spires, all the in
habitants fled, and those of the Duchy of
Deux-Ponts, have "had recourse to the
fame, meafurc. ,
The head-quarters of General Wurm
fer were on thh 3 ift ult. at Schwetzin
gen, two leagues from Heidelberg.
The head-quarters of the Duke of
Brunfwick were at Oppenheim.
Letters from Mentz of the 31ft tilt,
state, that the Republicans are mailers of
Germerfheim, Neuftadt, and Spires.
Manheim is putting into a tefpe&able
state o'f defence, and has an Aultrnn
garrison.
The Ete&or of Ments has left his Ca
pital with a part of his
gone to Alihaficnh'i, ;
Tc kfitu the itnpprtapcc i—; V
que'i- aiid aggravate ai d qnohiply .our
lo(k-5 di.u ..»vs p' '? r*>c
common, though novel piaftice of cer
tain individuals among us, as if the glo
ry and felicity of their country were sub
- jtftsof chagrin ant] misfortune, and tlveir
sole objefl was to render despondency uni
verfaf; hut however anxious they may be
to fee Great Britain humbled, degraded,
or reduced to be a province to France—
God forbid that any difafleis (honld ex
tinguish the natural energy of the nation,
or force it to prcftratc itlelf at the feet of
the Convention, or meanly solicit its clc
meircy awl protection.
What vnild such a conduct be in fa<S,
but a declaration of guilt and bankrupt
cy ?—The forifler of whichthas been con
tiaditted by the sentence of death against
Le Brun, and rhe latter by the abundant
wealth and refjurces df the coimtry.
It seems nnoft probable, that Lord
Hood, after leaving Toulon, would fleer
for Corsica, His force would immediate
ly reduce the two or three Towns which
had held out against the troops of Paoli ;
and thus a ready and convenient asylum
would be found for the Toulonefc Royal
ists.
By a letter received a few days since
from Bourdeaux, we are informed, that
£ome of the principal merchants confined
in that city were lately reilored to their
liberty by an order from the Municipali
ty : but in refpeft to their efT;£ts, they
were privately taken care of for the bene
fit of the State.
By the lad letters from Malta we learn,
that Lord Hood had demanded and obr
tained from the Grand Master of the Or
der, "1800 tailors, on condition that they
should be employed in the Mcditeranean
only.
A convoy of 600 vefleb, Englilh,
Dutch, &c. was ready to fail from Mal
ta, cfcorted by eight Englifti men of
war.
By letters from Barcelona, dated De
cember 8, the Spar.ifh Generals are laid
to be determined to piirfue their viclory,
and to attack Perpignan. The Spaniih
army will be augmented to 70,000 men.
All the armed peasants are to be allowed
bread, and about 25 folseach per diem.
The Duke of Medina Celi has railed
and maintains a regiment at liis own ex-
pence.
Yesterday a proclamation wasiffued for
a general Jiaft to be abferved, in England
on Friday the 2§th, and in Scotland on
andThursday the 27th of Fsbnuary on ac
count of the War we are engaged in with
France.
On Wednesday she King in Council
figued an Order for. the transportation ot
Messrs. Muir and Palmer to Botany Bay,
for the term sentenced by the high court
of judiciary of Scotland.
Dispatches are now hourly expe&ed
from Lord Hood, relpecling the evacua
tion of Toulon.
A warrant has just pasTed the treasury
board, for iduing the sum of 300,0001.
for the service of thtj ordnance depart
ment.
The duties of the cultom-houle, not
withftantjing the war, are only 48,0001.
Jess than the year preceding : and as the
Eall India.company in the year 1792 paid
in an arrear of 150,0001, in fact the actu
al Receipts exceed the former year by
1C2,0001.
UNITED STATES.
CHARLESTON, Feb. »8.
As the Editors of a Free Prels, we are in
duced to give publicity to the following
lawyer's letter, jult received, in order that an
impartial public may judge, whether the un
warrantable lirides made by a foreign agent
to Uionreii this palladium of liberty, is con
genial with olfr free and happy corjlitntion.
" February 24, 1794.
" Sir,
"THE French coAful, citizen M. A. B.
Maugourit, has deiired me to commence an
a£Hon'»gainft you, as printer, tor the publi
cation ol a piece in your Gazette of tnejth
December, containing fume slanderous defa
r:uttory expressions. This a<stion may be a
■soided by giving up the author of the piece.
Ii you Ihould not he disposed to do so, I will
thank you to let me know to what gentleman
cf the law I shall fewl the writ, to appear for
fan.
" I am fir,
" Your obedient,
" Humble fervarit,
" THOMAS LEE.
" Major T. B. Bo wen."
BALTIMORE, March 25.
Upwards of jo French and American
Tcffels Jailed from this port yesterday after
noon, to join the convoy now waiting at
Annapolis and Norfolk, under whose pro
tection they are shortly to fail for different
ports in France.
Yesterday arrived here in 35 days from
Gibraltar, the Brig Swallow, Capt. M'-
Clarklmd—he brings no later accounts
than those already received from Europe,
per arrivals at New-York, and Philadel
phia-—when he lailed from Gibraltar iix
(Lips of the line an<2 14 frigates lay there,
being part of the Toulon fleet, which
were bro't away on the evacuation of that
place, tm the ifi:h and 19th of Dec. last
the remainder of the fleet under Lord
Hood had gone into Leghorn. Captain
M'Clarkland adds that 19 American vef
ich hadbeert carried into Algiers.
A ship with American colours flying,
a on the (hore on the man of war flioals
near the entrance of Patapfaco river.
PHILADELPHIA
APRIL I.
C-isi,i.
A certain Great House after spending two
£iys to determine whether two black beans
w ill make one white one, not being able to
igree, have postponed a consideration of the
important question—Those who maintained
the negative of the proportion were urgent
tor an immediate opinion—while those who
advocated the affirmative, fearing that a ma
joiity would be found who would vote that
cue and or.e make two—attaching to them
felve* those that were fulpended on the "horns
of a dilemma" formed a majority in favor of
hanging up the bufmefs.
Extrai3 of a letter from an eminent charac
ter in South-Carolina, dated 3d March.
" I am glad Madison's proportions will
mot go down ; I think they will only tend
ta produce other regulations on the part of
Great Britain, and fall far fliort of the effedts
ctended ; they seem to me to be half mea
fares."
Extradl of a letter from Boflon, March 24. j
" We are eveiy day alarmed with rumors
' 1 wars, of spoils, &c. and our fpouters lpout
®oft vehemently— However they all rely on
tongrefs—and from the lpirited measures
»nbpted by that body, they will grow more
JIUMS in their notes, 1 hope in a few days.
We are not deeply engaged m election,
but there wijl be a little pulling and hawling,
'here wffl not, it is probable be any choice of
Governor by the people—Mr. Adams will
receive the old f U pport_ but not so
ror Otrvernor as for Lieutenant Governor- he
grows, old—and the Commonwealth has'ex
perienced the djfadvantage of imbecility too
recently to be forgotten—Judge Cufliingu-ill
be the next candidate —He will be ably sup
ported in tfeyeal counties —Mr. Phillips Pre
lident of the Senate, will have Elle:;, &c. in
his favor —Mr. Gerry will have many votes.
Extratf of a letter from Boflon, March 24.
" We have nothing new here eacept that
the civic feaft proposed by our Jacobin club,
has turned out Ikeieton fare. The public
opinion was agaiftft thenj ; the Club as was
moll natural|y fuppoled, would have sub
scribed the pittance of one dollar to gain a
rallying point, after their late town meeting
defeat, but alas ! not 200 names could be
found to grace the fiibfcription paper.
" The Lieut. Governor had given orders
for the parade of artillery on to-morrow:
but the firft of April being near, and rt be
ing hinted, that the step would be conltruid
into a breach by government, of the procla
mation of neutrality; he gave it a death
blow by countermanding orders; and the go
vernmental party, the true friends of their
country's peace and happiness, permitted the
brat to die in the womb as easy a» pofiible.—
If faces maybe considered as indexes of feel
ings, we may consider this as in point of qua
lity, mortification, primus—tho feciindus In
point of time."
THEATRE.
OBSERVBR Nb.'Xn.
Mr. Fenno,
The Observer withes to make a remark
to the managers of the New Theatre.
Mr. Wiguell in his introductory addrels
to the audience, the fail evening the Theatre
was opened, made the following promise:
" Great by your favor grown, the rising age,
Shall blel's the efforts of a moral stage ;
The stage in purity,—the stage refined,
Clear'd of its dross, may charm, initnnft
mankind.
Virtue may here its brightest leflon learn,
And scouted vice, its ugliness discern."—
How far this promifehas been fulfilled, in
the Dramatic pieces exhibited, the Observer
leaves the managers to judge; hazarding an
opinion that in the moll of the performances,
he believes, they have done Will hi the selec
tion j but cannot fay as much for all.
In filling the parts with proper chara6lers,
the Observer is sensible many difficulties oc
cur ; let the managers be cautious however,
eipecially in the Grecian Daughter, an excel
lent play—Mr. Fennel, Mr. Whitlock, and
Mrs. Whitlock, have their proper parts, in
the alignment ; but is it true, that, three or
four of the gentlemen characters are properly
caftThe Observer means only to hint ]
if the play is repeated, he bsgs an experi
ment, of alteration; surely it will no: be
worse, and he conjectures it will be better.
Critical as the assignation of parts is, the
Observer will make some remarks upon the
fevera! exhibitions in that refpeft, when op
portunity will admit.
He requests the managers to give some
new pieces, if they have any, as the old ones,
i'eem not to gain by repetition ; at any rate
they do not gain audience, which is one im
portant objecS for the managers.—Every one
will approve of a repetition of the Grecian
Daughter; but for your own fakes, give
something new the next performance.
April ill, 1794.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YO RK, March 31.
Extra& of a letter from Xjondon, dated
January 8.
" Government are about removing forr.e
jrefTures that have borne hard upon the
lavigation of your dates. The commit
ee of American merchants having made
trong remonstrances on the delays of the
Admiralty Courts, and detention of pro
as refpe&s your (hipping will move better
than they have done—a&ual p'roperty
will be better refpefted. It is the plun
dering privateers, against whom, and
with justice, the heaviest complaints lie.
The late order of Council will be revoked,
and frefli inftruiUons will appear in the
next Gazette. We understand applicati
on has been made to the French Conventi
on, also refpefting the American (hipping
detained in their ports, by theMinifterof
the Hates and other American Citizens,
now at Paris : we hope they will be spee
dily liberated.
loth January—"The Belvedere has
been detained by requelt of the commit
tee, and will convey the order of
Council alluded to above, which if it be
as extensive as promised, mull conciliate
and make America perfectly content with
refpeft to her navigation."
His excellency the Governor, arrived
in this city yesterday, from Albany.
The Legislature adjourned on Thurs
day lalt, to meet at Poughkeepfie.
Yeflerdjy airiyed here ia it, days from
Jamaica,. theifoop New-Ofork and
phia I'uket, Jparjt. Fitz Patrick.
By tne above veflel, we learn that Marti
nique was Itill in pofTeffipii of the French,
and tiiat there was but little probability of
their lofir.g it. Pravifions of all kinds fell
very high in. molt of the Ulands—flour, in
particular, fold for 16 dollars a barrel- —that
many of the inhabitants had already com
mtnci d the use of yams, &c. inflead jjf bread.
Thi Brig"Mary, Captain James Codwife,
who failed from Guadaloupe on the sth of
February was taken on the 6th and carried
into Duminique. Letters in town frpm him
&his brother in St. Croix, mention,that-the
Judge of said place laid he could not con
demn any American vefiels until further or
ders, mid expected all would be liberated.
KINGSTON, [Jam.] "Feb. Ij.
Capture of a French Man of War.
From the Dublin Journal of Dec. 31.
Cork, Dec. 29
" I am this moment returned from Kin
fale, and have the pleasure to inform you,
that Admiral Kingfmill, in the Swiftfure
of 74 guns, is off the Old Head, with a
French 64 gun /hip he captured on hTs
pafTage from Port {mouth, after an action
of 45 minutes, in which he had 25 men
wounded. The French man of war is a
valuable prize, and was bound to the Weft
Indies with a large sum of money and
clothing for their army there. The Ad
miral was boarded by fevcral boats, and
did intend then, if the wind would per
mit, to return to England with the prize
—and this will perhape therefore be the
firft account you receive of it, which you
may depend on as authentic.
Two or three. Spanifti privateers, or ra
ther picaroons, are said to be cruizing be
tween St. Marc and Cape Nichola Mole,
and pillage every vefiel of inferior force,
which fall in with, let them belono
to whom they may.
A Spanish privateer lately fell with and
plundered a schooner bound to Philadel
phia. The Captain was robbed of morr
than fix hundred dollars. T 7
*/ r — ™ 'I
Several vefiels on their way from Jamai
:a to St. Marc's, and other ports, in our
>oflelfion, have like wife been plundered by
liefe piratical people. * —
r" i i r
Two American fliips and throe brigs
vere lent in on Sunday. Four of them
prizes to his Majeftv's (hip Hermione, and
me to the Magitienne. They are load
ed, with sugar, coffee, cotton and provi
iians.
" The Spaniards have assembled a
fiderable force V Petite Riviere. Their
expedition against the incendiaries of Ar
ibonite has destroyed or difperfcd them,
ind the runaways are returning to thi
plantations of theft owners- : "
" Within these ten days several Ameri
:ans have quitted Port-au-Prince, and been
taken by our piivateers, and carried to
L'Archaye. These veifels were full of
pafiengers, of whom the men purchased
the permission to quit the place, by the
payment of 25 half-joes, and' the women
15, but nevertheless were only allowed to
embark on board Americans, whafix their
own price, and for carrying a perfoa from
Port-au-Prince to L'Archaye, (9 leagues)
they charge 8 half-joes. Thufe who at
tempt to get away without paying, and
without having a receipt for the 25 half
joes, are instantly {hot."
-»■«
March i.
It was uriderflood in England, previous
to the failing of the Packet, that govern
ment had it in contemplation to throw
open all the ports in the Well India ifiands
to American bottoms, and tu> permit the
free importation of every lpecies of provi
sions, lumber, &c.
Vinegar, _ Rite
liile, Mr. Hsrwooc
Orator Mum, Mr. Blifieti
Landlord, Mr. Warreli
John, Mr. Darley, jun
Sigr.ior Arionelli, (the Italian Opera Singer)
[Mr. Marshall
Cecelia, Mrs. Warreli
A P P T v 17 n Dolce, Miss Wmemi
A K R I V E D. As inconveniences to the public have
>chooner Federal, Lewis, Norfolk from the Box book being open On the
Mary Little Edenton, (N. C.) day 6cf performance only, in future attend
51oop Hope, White, Perth Am boy ance wi " be S iven at the office ln tlle Theatre
Harmony, M'Cormick, Savanna ev . er >' da >' from ' eQ ' tifl on . e ' and 6n j h , e d ¥
T"\ ,I - P lr „ T ,.„ ot performance trom ten til! three o clOck in
Dolphm Franklin, Snow Hill the P afteVnoon . Applications for Boxes, it is
Judith, Stephens, Cuarlefton refpe<stfully requested, may be addressed, td
Luciana, Church, St. Mary's ; *Mr. Franklin, at the Box Office.
Places in the Boxes to be taken at the Box-
T'ne Captain of a river Craft, which' Office of the Theatre, at any hour fromnine,
left Reedy-Island this morning, informs, in the morning till three o'clock in the afixr
that he saw a (hip and a brig there, in- noon >' " the da >' of performance. Tickets
ward bound-at New-Castle, 5 or 6 fail, *be ' Md at ' hc ■ -
*yr , tt t \ c . the corner or Sixth-itr£et,and at Lanr &Co s
at Marcus-HpoL, about the fame number, Mufical Kepofitory, No. 122, Market-street
and rort Mifflin, I sloop—the molt part Boxone dollar —Pitt, three quarters
of the above number is supposed to be of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar,
veflels returned. LwJies and Gentlemen are requested to
The fliip William Penn, Capt. Dale, is fend their serVants to keep places, at half an
arrived at Lpndon. hour P ast " ® doclc > an<! t0 » rder tl > em
v n , ' 1 p . -withdra-w, as soon as the company are leated,
\ efterday evening arrived at Fort Mis- as they on any £ & permitted
flin, the (loop Sally, Capt. v\ cu, in tt to remain in the boxes, nor any places kept
days hsm Bermuda. after the firlt ad.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
| • Also arrived at Fort MiflUn, the brig
Florida, Capt. Ferraday, which was ftopt
in the Delaware, by the French Frigate.
Daft Saturday morning, the French
fngate, the Ville de L'Orient, and a
French Snow, Captain Armial, proceed
ed to spa, in order to join the French fleet
at Norfolk, having taken possession of
the.Spaniftj ihow, Baroi) de Carondelet,
& the brig, , a prize to the Cerf sloop of
war. The Frence snow La Camilla was
detained at New-Caille, in consequence
of the Embargo.
, Yesterday evening arrived here the
Schooner Frederickfturgh Packet, Capt.
Andenon, from Cape Nichola Mole, and
lad from. New-Providence—.he informs,
that he left at Nichola Mple the following
vefifels :
Ship Asia, Coffin, Nantucket—condemn
- • ' ned, not fit to go to sea.
Brig Pomona, King, Philadelphia
Schooner John, Dewij, Marblehead
Two Sillers, Silbell, Philadelphia
Sloop Driver, , Norfolk
This day the two Houses of the Legifla
turecf this Common wealth -being afiembled
in Convention, proceeded to the choice of a
Senator to represent this State in Congreft,
when James Ross, of Washington,
was elefled.
Ks*. The address " to Ejlrina" fiail
appear to-morrow. „ i
tp* No newspapers were received by the
Southern mail this day.
Samuel Coates,
At hit Store, No. 82, south Front Jireet,
HATH TOR SALE,
94 Barrels
New England Beef,
V 9 barrels liver oil,
N i>arr?ts Cjxicr /
92 boxes qF Candles,
1 *50° pair of mfft'j leather (hoes
642 bufhcls of Barley
A quantity-os Tow Linen
D'tto, of New-England Soal leather
40 ba*»s oi excellent Cotton
4 boxe? of Qhocolate
3000 wt. oi i\lfpice .
100 casts of the best Holland gin.
April 1. , *eod2 vr
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROW evening,
April i.
Will be .performed,
A TRAGEDY, called the
Grecian Daughter.
Evander, Mr. Whitlock
Philotas, Mr. Moreton
Melanthon, Mr. Green
I'hocion, Mr. Cleveland
Dionyfyis, Mr. Fehnel
Galippus, Mr. Warretf
Areas, Mr. Francis
Greek Herald, Mr. H^rwood
Euphrafia, Mrs. Whitlock
Erixene,, Mrs. Cleveland
With new Scenes designed and executed by
Mr. Milho trne.
To which will be added,
A COMIC OPERA, in two aits, never
performed here, called the
Son in Law.
Written by the author of the Poor Soldier.
Cranky, Mr. Finch
Bowkitt, . % Mr. Francis
Bouquet, Mr. Moretor
- Mr " '
.> 'I ?•In th< Name of tlie French
Rep üblk.
I VERY Frenchman is forbid to violate ,
J the Neutrality of the United Statet..
Al! conimlffions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to tie Agents of tie French
llepublic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe ifitli, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
( March 6th, 1794, o. s.) ;
The Minister Plenipotentiary of tie French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET-
The Editors of newspapers within the
United State;, are requested to republifh the
foregoing notice. d
N O RRIS- C O U B. T,
Back of the .New Lorvy, brtwoeH Chefimt
and Waliu ,
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY i nforms his friends and
the pifelic in general, that he continues
parrying on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
L&ewife, JAPANNED PLATED, ,
for doorsor window-lhutters,doitt in the moll
elegant and with dispatch.
Orders the country wfll be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 36, dtf
TO HE MLt),
And entered upon the fiift of May,
The noted Efiate, called
yohnjort Hall:
Lying in the Mohawk eouptry, ftateofNew
Yoik, formerly the feat of Sir Wilftam John
son, containing about (even hundred ?cre# of
land, which is of the very bed quality ; toge
ther with the stock, and farmtr.g utttifih. The
buildings are large and convenient, and lit for
a gentleman*! i'rat. The payments wiH be made
easy, fecnrity. Fnr further particulars
enquire of GeOrge Meicalf, €fq. on the pretwf
of Silas Talbot, £fq. at Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Brothers, in New York, or
of the fubferiber in Th'ovidtdce.
rfube% Bvwtn.
Philad. March 26 mwftfi m
~~ PROPOSALS
for publishing By subscription,
, A Ground Plan
or THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS;
Taken frorfi actual survey, by A. £. totiE,
Geographer, frfmi St. &omm«9.
r "l"THli> will be camp/fid on a plate 26
JL incites Ifqtalrt; an 3tf will trtntoita fn ex- 9
ast defenption of ail the squares, ftrrets and
alleys in the Gtjy and Liberties. The {titration
of the ffevfrlil j>trtuicl>ui' , iding5 v Ttich as the State-
House, City-Hall, fcealt of Congress, Churches,
Meeting-Hou'fc*, Mctffmal, liWiVy and Semina
lieiof J*eJKntn£—ot the feveril Bartks, and of
the Federal and State Ofcfices, willbe ascertained.
The par* which are built oft'will trc diftmguifh
eJ from iho'fe that are hot. The c our lis o? the
tivuVrs berween Delaware and and
ae much ofttie Canal, intend* d to connect the
oevigition of these two waters, as lie* within
the conrpafsqf the draught, will be accurately
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a
view of the (hipping in the harbor, ind an ele
vation onfcphgrefs-Hall, and of the otfhtr public
Wildings that occupy the ground cogtifctioirs.
•In ftiort, not hing will be omitted to render thh
tifeful and durable work acceptable lo an en-
public, that is in the author's power :
*nd it fha-il be witti the greatest
poflible difpatcty, as soon as the genefous encou
ragement of fubfcribevt shall insure tothe author
such a Turn as will be fu&cicnt to defray ex
penses.
A Pantff/hltt will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the Subfcrifrei* natoes, and information con
cerning (he police, population and present (late
Of the city.
The price to fubferibers will be Two Dollars
and one third* to be paid at the time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Sobfcriptions will be gratefully received at
the principal iJookfellers iu this city—and the ;
original Draft may be seen at,#. Davim', j
'No. 68, Mailcet-ftreet, at any time uQtil ft (hail !
be put into the b&fids of the Engraver.
Feb. 28.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER-,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth *nd Fifth
Streets, actjoining the Epifcqpal burning
ground,
r ~p , AK®S this opportunity of returning his
JL grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requeuing their future favors, as well as
tbofe of the public in general.
fie continues to make and repair at the .
fltorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
f'uch as coaches, chariots, pliartons with kud
Without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, Wind for fulkeys atd chaiis, and liarnefs
Of every defcriptior, ir- the nrtteft and newest
falhion now prevailing >n the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the bed seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen", he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fattsfc&ion to thole who please t-o employ him.
He has for fkle, several carriages almost
finilhed, such as coacbees, an Italian windier
chair, hung on steel springs, aligbtphtoton for
one or two borfes, and a lulkey with a falling
Carriages fold on Commiifion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, i 79- m&th3in
TO 3E SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN ail eligible Jituation,—ra|fo a Country Seat
Within 6 milts cjf [I* City, wttb 9 Veres of
land, or 42 . eres of i*pd aixl ijieadolv, tbe
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of tjie city, in (Ize or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23. m&t|.—tf
JUST PUBLISHED,
ANO FOR 6 A.L E BY
M. Cjirv, No. 11
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, .whic(> (irt full (f Common
Sense, tie befifenfe in the -world.
' I "HIS little book is written inallite altogether
A novel, and is adapted <o pU capacities, at
well as to all claffrs of people, merchants j me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has thin
work, acquired, that it has puffed tb'Oiihicc im
prcflionsin the eaflxrn states, and many houle
hblders deem it so ufeful as to purchase a copy
{or every adtrtt in theit families.—-Price 2s.
February 4. dii
' *
Lately Published.
i-
•ttKr "?•*.
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Srconb-Street :
THE Hiilofy of NcyMiampihire, from the
Difcovcry of the River Pifcataqu*—by Je
remiah fielknap t p. D. 3 Vols. Pricc in Boards,
4 1-2 Dollars.
Ttie Forrefter, an American Fable, bekng a
Sequel to the Hiiloi y of John Bull the Clothier.
Prce, 75 Ceots.
A. DiTcourfe, intended to commemorate the
Discovery ot America by Chrifloptier CoH»m
bus; delivered at the vNfitcft o* the Historical
Society N in Maffaohufeus, O&ober 1795,
being the completion «f the Thnd jCentuiy,
iinee that memorable event. To which are
added, ¥bar DifTertarrans, cotiye&ed with the
—By the (kmc author. Pnfcc, 50X0111.
March 17.
' Pteblifefd, : •
itfnA. 'Bike j»
ui4 j»ir _ -
< ,• *
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 4T, Second
Slrtrl,
AN E66AY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
Oil the RighU tliat refuk from it, and on the
Duties which it jmpofes.
T-e <Hwch a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teyderian Society at Hsartem.
Carretted tend Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
A D.
Profisflor of MwaJ Ptiilofopfvy, and the Lav
of Nature, and of Ecclcfialtical Hi-ftoiy j
andMinifter of rtieEngTi/h 'Chuich at U
trifivf.
Aliquid fomper xd comnuram utilitaitem a(-
ferendum. G*c»Ilo.
The Firjl American Edition.
TPHE grand principle Equality, if right-
X ty undeiftood, is fte only bafts on which
univetfirt justice, (acred ostler, and perfcft
freedom, can he firmly built, and permanent
iy secured. The v»ew of it eiohibitsed in this
eflay, at the fame time that it rrpr«tfes tifee
insolence of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages of oppreflion ; cosfirinj, in the
most forcible ntanner, the nete/Trrv of fubsi -
dination, and tbe just demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from towfenmg the
bands of Ibfiety, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every cwil diftinftUuu
drawsmore cldlely every I'ocial tie, unites In
one harmonious and Juftty proportioned lyf
tem, and brings men tog*t(ior on the evei.
ground of the inherent rights df human t»a
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
Wfafth ifr. eodiw'^u&ftf
Just Imported,
In the Ship Etkuartl, Capt. Cran&on, from
St. ftterfburg in Russia,
And nowlanding at Wharf, viz.
TJ EMP >
n BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN'S DUcit,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOO's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Bontirildjbn
No. 12, Walnut-street.
March 4,1794. di w.^a^tf
m&thif
The Admirers of Sacred "Music
arc refpeftfully informed, that One or rfiore
Performance-; from the most approved
Parts <ff Handel's Works,
from the Messiah) will be given
In the week preceding Eafler Sunday, («om
monty called Pafflon week)
As every ability in the Jnftrumeiital and
Va«il Line will be called forth ou this ocfcaii»
on, there is no doubt, but that a Liheral Pub
lic will take the present undertaking under
their protettion.
M. B. Part <sf the Profits will be appropri
ated to the ufeof a public cfrariiv.
A particular description of ibe Place, Se
leftiori,&c. will be given a«i <oon as ihis neces
sary arrangement can be ftttled.
March 29. dtf
SOLD BY
tVUJ&tgW
IMPORTED
In the Brig George and Httrriof, from
Havre de Grace-
AND FCNI SALE BY
Louis Ofrnont,
t A PERFECT
Aflortment of Hanging Paper,
h.gh coloured and pjain.
Whueifitk Stockings, high drelfcd and put
up EngliUi t'ihion.
The hundfomeft ariificial Flowers and Fea
thers.
Some Looking Glass Plaies to be fold by the
cafe.
Afe w Hampers of Champaigns wine fix
years old.
ALSO,
jtn elegant parcel of
Bear lk in M uiTs,
And very beautiful Silk Cloaks, which oj
account of the feilon will be fold low, an<J a
a long credit.
LIKEWISE
42 pipes Madeira wine,
aud afew casks of Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
Htiuill have for sale,
A GEJJ&RAi ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn hats, fans and cambricks, claret ■in
cafe, a quantity of window glass well Port
ed of ell tfze , and a few pair of remarkable
LookingGlftfles framed, aTI arrived at Nor
folk, notv coming round.
March 22. drf
War Department.
January 3oth -1794.
INFORMATION >a br, euy given to alt the
military invalids of the Uuitcd Siatc»,tliat the
funu to which Jh-ey aiee-niiled +or fm months
of their annual {KtJion, fton the lourt+i day of
September 1793, and which will t>«cftme<iue
on Vik sth day of March 1794, wi " bf paid on
the said day by the CotmniiHouer-s of the Loam
within the dates rcfpeflively, under the usual re
gulations.
Applications of exccutori and administrators
mull be iccoiripjTiutl wirh evidence of
their refpi stive offices, and alio tVs the tiipe the
invalids died, wliufc peuiion-thty -may claim.
By cominana iif tWe Pvfftdi ru
<rf tfce United Siatr«,
H. KNOX,
Secretary of War.
TUc printers i«*he letpctlivc Sairs arc
requeftcd <o paWiih the about m U>tir newspa
pers for tht ipacctrf two momhs.
January go.
STATE or SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the Htmfe of Reprrfiulatives,
CtCtMBE* 2lft, >733.
*T7»ER£AS the •Cowmnffioarcrs of public
▼ V Accounts, have reported, that thry can
| <HX proceed to tbc itrvtftigation of the Trealury
1 Accounts, reCpe&iog Ipeoial IndctfcU, wathout
I Knowing the amount thereof in ci*-
| culat ion therefore,
Rcjolvcd* That all holiieire ©f fpeciaJ
be dirc£led f and require a, on or before the fir-ft
day of November next, to deliver the special In
dents in tire it polTettion to one or other <jrf the
ComimftoncTs of the TreaFuty, whp are to,givc
receipts for the fame, and totepoii'to fteeCom
miflioncrs on public accounts, on or befoie the
tenth dary o*f "November next, the amount by
them refpeftively received, and .alto to tb<? Le-
at their meeting m November .aext,
and that all special Indcuts not reudcietl into
the Treafui y ae, above, on or befoTe the firft day
of November ne*L, ihc kmc aic
heieby baned.
Rcjolvtk That public novice $f t)\tt lefiduiwx
be given iu the federal Gazettes in this State
once every three weeks, urttil the firft day o
November iw**. And rhstf
State in the of the Uuited Stales, be w.
fjiicltcd to cauj£ this rciolution to be
in one or more papers m ditics of Fhibdel
phia arid New-York, and that provision w*ll bi
p:ade for the expeuces attending such rpublica
tion.
Offered* That the reTolution be sent to th
Source for tbeir concurrence.
By under of House,
JOH.N SANFORD DART* C. H. R
■* v/—»-* n
In thi SENATE,
December
Htfalved, Thatthis Houft do concur with the
tfouic ot Reprefcntacives in the foregosng rcfo
lutVftiH.
Order That the refolutioiw be (em to ihc
Houie of Rcprefenta rives.
by order rtf she Senate,
FKLTX WARLEY, Clerk.
ew£Vt>v«
For Sale bj the Sub/cribers,
MUSCOVADO Sugar in hhds.&bbsl.
flyion and Southong Teas.
Slierry Wines, of superior quality, in pipes
and quarter cases.
Spanifti Indigo.
Boston Beef, in barrels.
And a small invoice of Muslins.
NAI-BRO' & JOHN FRAZIER,
No. 1&4, South£(o»t4h-««t.
March 8. fmw4w
Qs* This Gazette Jfcall be enlarged, it
reeeivrs tmouragtvmt—The Siifo-ipiion
encreafcs daily—A<kxrttjm% Favors are
foft cited—Thcfe ctmfiitute an efintial Item
in iliminiftwg the&tbk jide vf tbe itcnuitt.
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, JJPANN'L
PLA TES, c?Y.
Done in the molt elegant manner, a id after
ihe firft matters ; Ukewifs,
Fire Buckets
Fainted and finilhed at the notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library
between Cheimit and Wainut,
Fourth and Fifth streets.
March 4.
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased, -
TheHoufe N°. 245,
AND
Lot of Ground
On which itftands, wherein James Biddle
now lives, on the north lide of Market
ftreet, near Sixth-ftreSt.
THE Houie being 18 fret 10 inches in
Front on Market-ftiret, arid th? Lot
Ivj feet deep. Tlte whole will be fold fub
jetS to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Penniylvania Hoi'pital, and their fuceeliors
fosever. For terms apply io
Samuil COATES,
Jonathan Jones,
AfJTHOuy Morris,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviv.iug Executory of
Deborah Morris, dec'.!.
*eop 3 w
March i, 1794.
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raifie 59,900 Dollars, on 2.66,000
Dollars, de jutting 15 per Cent: /ro/n
the Prizes—this Lottery confl/ls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there art
'4>539 P*i*es and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Directors of the Society for efiabliftung
Ufelul Mannfa£t«tes, having reiolved to
eie3 LOTTERIESTc z.- 0» eH . £k,t*
THOUI*D*,LI m-. 10 aA AStai
the Legifl turc c. : 01
apponvrd the it '.io»-j!: r , pc tV.as to fup»i»<rn<i
•««! direst the titot ci • ; ■■■>«,*;«; v—
♦»» l-ow, Ruftis King, Mt. 1 <• H .. ,
W»tftn, Rici'-us iiu-.iiUut, At.r>- H'■runentL
Cornelius Ray, "i the ciiy oi Stw t?'k—
1 nomas Willrttg, j.rteph Ball, Matthew WCon
and Anidrew Bayard, As the chy of Phila
delph'a—'His Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
Elnw Boudmot, Genera) El'as Dayton, J*rm»
Pa 1 h«r, Jntlin- Miif'ariipj Ijn, Tv~..l
Sttwuel W. Stockton, [o&iua M. Wallace, Jnfeph
Bloom fie Id, 4nd Ehtha Boudmot, of Ni w-Je».
fey, whn i>fter tlie following Schcme of a Lot
tery, and pledge themlelves to pie public, that
they will Mice e»ery affuraoce and precaution m
thefr p>»w«r to have the Moines paid by tte
Mungert, Iroin time tt> time, *s Mito
tbe Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for the purpofeof paying Priz s, which
fliaH be immediately dilchargcd by a tticdt
npon one of Phe ilanks. s
Asm
S C H E ME:
i Prifcc bt 2b,0©0 DoiUrt is 2€\ooo
1 10,GC'O lQ,bo(
•1
2
i
10
*0
109
3°°
1-Of®
2000
3000
Biao
1 4>539 Prizes. 262,00 a
23,461 Blanks. First dr»wn number 2,000
Lt»ft dra wu number, 2 ; ,ooo
38.©©© Ticket* at 7 Dollars cach is 266*000
The drawing will commence, under the in
(pe&ionof a Committeeof the Super intend a«rs,
as loon as the Tickets are f6W,x>l winch tinaciy
notice wrttbe given
The Supentrtettdams have appointed John W.
Of Ncwai'k, }*crtb R.
of Ne>w-Brunfwiok, anil Jonathan Rhea, of
Trenton, as »atc Managers thereof, who
hav.c given ample Security loi difcbarging the
trust reposed in them.
(pT In orderTo fecurethe pun&ual payment
of the Prizes, the Superintendents of the 'Lottery
have dire&ed that the Managers IhiU each enter
into bonds in 40,000 dOl a 1 s, with tour fufficicwt
fecuritres, to performthevr vrfttt u&ionsy the sub.
lkance of which is
Is That whenever either of rhe Mvmager*
shall receive the sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he shall immd lately place the fame ir> one of the
Bauks of New.York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit of the Governor of the Society, and such
of the Superintendams a« live in the ciiy where
the monies are placed, to remain there until the
Lottery is Hrawn, for the payment of the Prizes.
11. Ihe Managers to take 'ufficiem tecunty
for any Tickets they may croft, otherwise to bt
nefponuble for them.
MI. Tofcwp t«gabr bwA» ifTii >»«■ fcM.
Ww«HMtW»J and p»ia mrt» lln -<b.
ft'«a» o{ which ftwll-ie {rnL,. ma<tU%y Wkifce
(apvoroqc of the Society*
P»terf*», J«nu»»y 1, ' 794-
° n 10 ?"|«CT •Tike aWtgfWlf.
me«, irtfhrt#r«U9i» BegfeWa where ticlu a
hfjy .be hati. v
T-c^wwyry
PJJJ±ADELP ttlj} :
PiH!iT*o BT JOHN FENNO, No
s
A
<#»-
. ifyifl
.... ,<O,OOO
■ . liljOQO
' •"*
t,OOO. »
'i,€tbd
1,000
s°°
400
50
ao
*5
• a
10
is,o°o
20,00t>
30,000
36,000
81.000
luftftf.
'C*
Its
.«} "s