of tbe fflitifefc JjMafe
EVE
[No. 87 of Vol. V.]
For Amsterdam,
The new fact-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
ISli ADRIAN A,
Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and wai in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will *' th
all convenient speed. For freight or passage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, orto
THOS. y JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Fallen gers will be landed in tng-
land if required.
March 6, i7<
The American
BURTHEN 700 barrels, with her tack
and apparel asfhccwne from sea, a
flaunch veflel, not two years old, a " d ma >
put to lea immediately, l'or ten PP >
to
GARDINER & OLDEN,
Arch Street whart>
Who have for fak,
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
, quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and a few
calks Timothy Seed —alio n
Pig and Bar Irofa, and Iron cait
ings, in any form executed on the
ihorteft notice.
March 14
For Sale or Charter,
burihen 232 t<i»s '«» only made thre y
dtf
March 2
For Bojlon,
DOLPHIN,
' William Nichols, Matter :
WILL Sail in about eight day*; tortreigit
or paifase a|>pW to the Ca»ta,n board.at
Hodge's Wlia.f, betwen Arch and Rjce
RUMFORD it ABIJ AH DAWES.
3d Mon. i 4» ] 794- —
Bojlon,
For
, THE BRIO
George & Harriott
y- V Jofiah Bernard, MaJler.
WILL fail the 25th inft. has good accommo
daiions. For freight or palTagr, apply to the
Captain on board ot Mr. Sim*'& wharf, o? 10
JOSEPH ANTHONY & SON.
March 17. d'*s
JAMES LEACH,
Respectfully informs his friends and
the public, That from the encouragement
be has received, from several refpe&able Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would otter his fcrvicea to
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidence
in bim ; and he allures those who employ him,
that their confidence thall not be milplaced
but it (hall be his constant endeavor, to pay the
firtßett attention to their best tntercft, in all ne
gociattons whatever. He has taken the Chamber,
in Stall-Sir ill, over Mr. David Town/end, Watch
Make's Shop. Where PUBLIC SECURI-
HtS, of all kinds, are bought and fold; and
where CominifCon Business of all kinds, will be
ttanfafted on leafonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be coniiantly enpofcd forlale.on
commifiion.
* 4 * Cash paid for Salem, Providence, and
Portsmouth BILLS.
N. B. If toy Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York, hat any Bujintfl It tratjati at Bojitn,
in Papir Ne#oc>ationi, hi will be happy ttbeim
plcwd in lommijjion.
Boston, Jan. 24,1794.
(j3" This Gazette Jhallbe enlarged, at it
receiver encouragement —The Subscription
tncreafes daily—Advertj/ing Favors are
ft/icited —Tbefe constitute an ejftntial Item
in dimmi/hing the Debit fide oj the Account.
NING ADVERTISER.
J lift Imported,
[n the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fit z patrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious fz.cs.
Sheathing Paper,
Szvedi'j Iron, are and fiat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
quantity of "Junk and Oakum, cfr.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
fhouldapplication be made within a few days ;
other wife Jhe will tahe freight for Amjler
dam.
March K 1794.
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased,
TheHoufe N°. 245,
Lot of Ground
On which it stands, wherein Jam es Biddle
cow lives, on the north fide of Market-.
street, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet 10 inches in
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold fub
je<£t to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their fuccefiora
forever. For terms apply to
*diot
Samuel Coates,
Jonathan Jones,
Anthony Morris,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, dec'd,
*eop 3\v
March I, 1794'
Advertisement.
WI LL be expofid to public sale, on Se
venth cay the 29th of this instant, at the late
dwelling house of Richard Cheyney, deceas
ed, a plantation, situate in the Township of
Thornbury in the county of Delaware, and
lying on Chester creek, containing 80 acres,
1 5 of which are good watered meadow, and
more may be made at a small expence, about
25 acres of wood land, and the remainder is
good fertile land well supplied with water.—
There are on the premises, a good stone
dwelling House and kitchen, an excellent
gaiden, an orchard of 25 good bearing trees
a good barn cellar'd under, a saw-mill, and
an excellent feat for a grift or merchant mill,
with a futficiency of water.
Like wile a tract of wood land ajoining the
above—lmmediate poffellion will be given to
the purchaser—The sale to begin at 2 o'clock
on laid day. where attendance will be given,
and conditions made known by
JOHN CHEYNEY, ? Executors .
WILLIAM CHEYNEY, $
March, 19 d4t.
TREASUR rofPENNS TL VAN IA f
February 14, 1794.
PUBLIC Notice is hereby given to all perlons
indebted to the Commonwealth, lor monies
borrowed of the Trustees of the Loan Office,
eftablilhcd per ast of the 4th of April, 1785,
that the time is expired when the last payment
(hould have been made, and every juftifiable
indulgence having been granted, That unless
they tome forward and pay off their refpe£live
balances on or before the firft day of April next,
precepts will issue against all delinquents with
out regard to persons or circumstances. All
former and existing fhcriffs, who have money
in their hands belonging to laid Oftice, are re
queued to bring it to me on or before the above
period, otherwise I shall be under the disagree
able neceflity of prosecuting them without dif
tin&ion.
P. S. The Printers throughout the State are
requeued to iniert the above in their papers tor
the information of their fellow-citizens. d
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock
Street:—
A few Bales of Ruflia Sheetings,
uiw&fifw
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity ot Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Tonkav, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Brimftonr,
With a Variety of other Go<*ds.
Feb. so. 3*aw6w
AND
Monday, March 24, 1794-
d—tf
AND
CHRISTIAN FEBIGER.
IMPORTED
In the Brig George and Harriot, from
Havre de Grace,
AND FOR SALE BY
Louis OJmont,
A PERFECT
Assortment of Hanging Paper,
high coloured and plain.
White liik. Stockings, high dreifed and put
Up EnglUll t<<ihion.
The handfomelt artificial Flowers and Fea
thers.
Some Looking Glass Plates to be fold by the
cafe.
A few hampers of Champaigiie wine, fix
yours oid.
ALSO,
An elegant parcel of
Bear skin Muffs,
And very beautiful Silk Cloaks, which on
account the season will be lold low, and at
a long credit.
LIKEWISE
42 pipes Madeira wine,
and a few calks of Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
He twill have for J'ale,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn hats, fans and cambricks, claret in
cafe?* a quantity of window glass well sort
ed of all sizes, and a few pair of rematkable
LookingGlafles framed, all arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
March 22.
Philadelphia, Fcbiuary 13, *794'
PROPOSALS
For printing by Subfcriptio"*
A Work, to be entitled,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Pennjylvania State Trials.
THE want of fuflicient information of the
state trials of Great-Britain in the early
periods of that government is now lamented :
Hitherto there hath been but one trial in the
state of Pennsylvania on impeachment and
here also tt is to be regretted, that, being neg
lected at the time, the public are now left with
out lufticient information on the fubje£t of that
trial, it is however in this -woik designed to rcf
cue what can be collected thereof from sources
of indifputaple authority, so that the fame shall
be preserved from oblivion.
Another impeachment and the second is now
depending. An officer is charged by the late
House of Representatives, who hath for many
years been largely confided in by this state, and
hath long been at the head of the financial de
partment of the fame, and it imports the citi
zens to know hiscondu6t, and thecircumftances
which may be'brought forward on his trial.
In this work the Editor will be careful to
state the facts, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers before
the public.—With this view—
The following Terms are refpeßfully
submitted to the Public :
I. The Work shall be printed in oaavo, with a
I good type, on fine paper, and delivered to
fubferibers at the refpe&ive places where the
fubferiptions are taken in, as soon as the work
shall be compleated
11. As no eonjcfturc can well be made, as to
the length ot the present trial, the fi/.e the
volume cannot be ascertained at this time—
But the price (hall not exceed that of fomeof
the latest publications io this city.
111. It will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental circumstances that may occur during
the trial of John Nicholfon, Esquire, Comp
troller-General of this Commonwealth, with
the arguments of counsel oa both fides, together
with the articles of impeachment, and the
pleas and replications at large, the several re
solutions of the two branches of the ftitc Le
gislature, refpefting this impeachment, and
the final decision of the SENATE refpe&ing
that officer.
To which will be prefixed, as much as can be
colletted from authentic documents, of the im
peachment, trial, and aequital of the late Francis
Hopkinfon, Esquire, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty for the state of Pcnnfylvania, during
the late war, never before pnblilhed.
No money will be required before the deli
very of the book.
Subscriptions will be received by Francis
Battey, No. 116, High-street; Wrigley and Ber
riman, No. 149, Chefnut-flreet, and by the dif
ferent book lei lers in this city; Jacob Bailejj
I.ancafter ; Yundt and Patton, Baltimore, and
j by the Editor.
EDMUND HOGAN.
N. B. The price will be enhanced to non<
foWcr.bws. Feb. 18. mjcw.f
[Whole No. 545.J
LAW OF THE UNION.
THIRD CONGRES S OF THE
UNITED STATES,
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Monday
thefecond or December,one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-three.
An ACT making Appropriations for the support oj
Governments Jor the year one thousand Jeven bun
dled and mnety foui.
Sec. I .T) E it enaded by the Senate and lioufc
JD oj Reprejentatives oj the United States
of America ,in (ongref ajjembied. That for de-
fraying the expenditure of the civil-lift of the
United States for the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety fwur, together with the
incidental and contingent expenses of the se
veral departments and offices thereof; and
for making good deficiencies for the support
of the civil-lilt eft b ilhment ; for aiding the
fund ippropriated for the payment of certain
officers of the courts, jurors and witnesses;
for the support of light-houses, and for other
purposes, th?re be appropriated a sum of mo
ney not exceeding five hundred and twenty
one theufand four hundred and forty-feven
dollars and twenty four cents ; That is to Jay :
For the compensations granted cry law to
the President and V ice-Prelident of the United
Stares, thirty thousand dollars :
For the like compensations to the members
of the senate and House of Representatives,
their officers and attendant', estimated for a
fefTion of fix months continuance, one hundred
and eighty five thousand, eight hundred and
ninety dollars :
For the expenses, of fire-wood, stationary,
printing-work, ai d all other contingcntexpen
fes of the two houles ofCongrefs, ten thousand
dollars :
For ihe compensations granted by law to
the chief justice, allociate judges, diftrift
judges, and attorney general, forty three
t'Uoufand two hundred dollars:
For defraying the txpenfe of clerks of
courts, jurors and wttiieflcs, in aid of the fund
arising from fines, forfeitures and penalties,
twelve thousand dollars :
For defraying the expenses of prosecutions
for offences against the United States, and lor
the fafe keeping of prisoner*, four thousand
dollars :
For compensation to the Secretary of State,
clerks and persons employed in his office, fix
thousand eight hundred dollars :
Forexpenfe of stationary, printing, and all
other contingent expenses in :he office of the
Secretary or State, including the expense
which will attend the publication of the laxvs
of the firft fellion of the third Congrels, and
for printing an edition of the fame, to be dif
tribu'ed according to law, two thousand and
sixty one dollars, and sixty seven cents ,
For making good a deficiency in the appro
priation of the year one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety three, for extra-fcrvices of
clerks, in the office of the Secretary of State,
in preparing documents for Congref, and for
an index to the laws of the second Congress,
eight hundred dollars :
For comp n fat ion to the Secretary of the
Tieafury, clerks and persons employed in his
office, seven thousand eight hundred and fif
ty dollars :
For expense of stationary, printing, an.l all
other contingent expenses in the office of the
ecretary of theTrcafury, five hundred dollars.
For compensation to the Compi roller of the
Treasury, clerks and persons employed in his
office, ten thousand two hundred dollars :
For ertpenfe of ftarionary, printing, and <.*lk
other cenringentexpenfes in the Comptrollers
office, eight hundred dollars :
For compensation to the Treasurer, clerks
and persons employed in h s office, four thou
sand one hundred dollare :
For expense of hre-wood, stationary, printing
and other contingencies in the Tieafurei's
office, four hundred dollars:
For compensation to the Auditor of.the'
Treasury, clerks and pcrfons employed in his
office, ten thousand four hundred andfif.y dol
lars :
For expenfr of stationary, printing and other
contingent expenles in the Auditor's office,
five hundred dollars,
For compensation to the Commissioner of
the Revenue, clerks and perfoni employed in
his office, fix thousand one hundred and fifty
dollars :
For the expenfeg of stationary, printing and
other contingent expenses in the office of the
Commissioner, three hundred dollars ?
For compensation to the Register of the
Treafurv, clerks and persons employed in his
officr, fifteen thousand dollars .
For the expenses of flationery, printing and
other contingent expenses in the Register's
office, (in luding books for the public stocks)
two thousand dollars :
for the payment of rent for the fcveral
houses employed iu tht Treasury Department,' ct ""fan! five hundred and ninety fix dol
Jar< anr 4 n 'ty fix cents,
F"r v. odand candles in the several oigce.
of the rceafu < department (except the Tr.-a.
one thousand two hundred dol.
ra •. i.
tor comp«iiftNoiH to the several Loan of
ficer., thirteen tl.op.and twi hundred a d sis.
Tv dol arft :
Fur defraying the exp.-nres of the several
Li i officer., lUtionerv and clerk hire,
between the si ft day nf March, and the thirty
ft » day nf Dt-cembe', one thousand f ven hun
anri " ,net y three i.clufive, the fuin of fe
tenteen th >ufa>,d three huidred nd Teventy
teveit dollars and seventy five cents :
' 01 compensation to the Secretary of War,
ilvrk, ind pei font employed in his office, reven
tnouland anH fifty d illau :
I'oi ixpenfctt.J sii eAO nd, stationery. prin
and Ither contingent. in'the of
fice of the Secretary of War, eight hundied
f >r making good a deficiency in the appro
priation of tlie year one thou,and seven luin
d'ed and ninety three, for contingent expen
ds m this office, two hundred and five dollars
and leventr fix cents ;
Fo- compenlVtion to the Accountant to the
" ar department, andclfi, in l.is office, four
tJioulanH lev en hundred dollars :
For contingent expenles in the office of the
Accountant to the war depai tnient, four luin
riM d«»Har< :
For f onipenlations to ihe following officers
" t „' T mi " r H>e Oi eftoi, two thoufmd
dollars ; the AlHtvet, one ttr.uland five hun.
died Hollars ; _the Chief Co n.., one thou
land five hundred dillax ; the Engrave'
one tbnul'and two hundred d '.liar.; ; the Tre'-
Otrer, one thoufhnd t™ himdvd dollars •_
three clerk', at fire hundred dollars each, o ,e
thnnland five hund-ed rti.tla.s : '
For defraying the exp?>.le< of woiklllen,
tne year one thoufaiid (even hundred and
ninety four, three t'-oufand three hundred I
autftlghry five dollar; :
? r t:e Several e.xp.?nfe« of the mint, Jn,
cT#4»ng the pay of a refiner, when employed.
j ,?' * I, 'ver and copper, and for the com
pe; ion oi the melt.ng furnaces, two thousand
leven hundred dollars :
h or replacing a sum of mnnev advanced at
the Bank ol the I?mred-State*, for the pur.
P" eot rtn iirpor tation of copper, to be coin
ed at the mint, ten thouland dollars.
For defraying »he expense of copper, pur
c afed in the year one thoufaid seven hun
o edand ninetv th ee, seven thoufai.d three
hundred and fifty dollars :
pui c °oip nfations to the governors, secre
taries and judges of the ten.tary north weft,
and the territory fuuth of the river Ohio, ten
Ihoufa >c! three hruidred dollars :
f orcK[>enJe.s ot itatiorerv, office-rent, prill
»'"g patent; for :an<i', a ,d ot..i. couuugen
etpjn'e, in b ,th tlic laid terrifi. i■% levei
bundled dollars :
Foi the payment of f'undry pensions gran,
ted by the late "overnn.cn! two thousand
three hundred ai d sixty seven dollars ar.dfc
venty three cents:
Ko, payment ot th- annual allowance gran,
ted hv Congress to Baron r>ren' en, two thou
land five hundred dollars :
For the Bona il allowance to the widow and
and ,i phan-childten of colonel John tit ding,
and to me orpli.m-childicn of major Alexan
der Truman, by the art of Congress of tlx
twenty fl-venrh of February, one thousand
even hut died and ninety three, fovea hun
d>"ed and fit-ty dollars :
Fo. arrearages of pension due to the widow
■ ild orphan children of colonel John Hardinr
and to he orphan children ..f , na jor Alexan
<e: Trarnan, to the thirty firft 0 f December,
one t lion land seven hundred and ninety three
fix hu idred andfevciny five dollars :
For the annual allowance for the education
of Hugh .Mercer, Ton ..(the late General Mer
ccr, four hundred dollar? :
Fo: the maintenance and repair oflighthou
fe<, bacons, piers, flakes and buoys, four
tlio i and dollars ;
To mak. good adeficiepcy in the appropri
at.on of the year one thousand seven hundred
and ninety two, for tbe maintenance and re
par of light houies, beacons, piers ftak-,"
and buoys, four thousand dollars : '
For the putcnare of hvilrometers f, r ti,.
».fe of tbe officer* of the'eufton,,, a ' Rd
to-» of the revenue, one thousand dollars '
For a balance stated by the Auditor of the
r .' "" rv . *" >* due "> the estate of the lit!
major genera I Greene, purluant lo the afl'„f
Congrels, of the twenty ferenth dav „f p.
bu.ary, one thousand fee,, hundred and
nin-tvtiro, to indemnify the said estate (or
a bond entered into by hm, duri nf , hc ,
Wir, in which „ included Interest due on the
nonds from their dates, to th. twr]f th ~A
pr.l one thousand seven hurd.ed and ninety
th.ee, thirty three thou'and, one hundred
aod eighty seven dollars, and sixty levc,, cems
For defraying the expend j ncjde „ [Q '
slating and printing the public account., fj
the year one thousand leven hundred and nine
ty three, eight hundred dollar, :
For the payment of such H rmand , not
thcrwifr provided for, a, (hall |„ ve been du
ly allowed bv the officers ot tbe trcafui v f
thousand dollars : «ve
several appropriation',
firjl The Turn of fix hundred j i
thereupon, to the end of the ) ;ar one thou
land levei. luuidrcj} and ninety four.
Frederick Aucuirus McftLtNBERC,
S[>c,ikor of the House qf
RtprefentativeiL
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United Slates and Prelident
of the Senate.
Approved March the 1
thud, 179 a. j
G°. Washin gtov, Prcfident of the
United States.
Deposited among the Rolls ; n the Office
ot the Secretary of State,
Edm. Randolph,
Secretary of State.
A CARD,
Mr. S. preients his Compliments to the
Citizen who so politely addrelles him in Mr
tennos paper of the twenty s econd in(tam .
he has the pleasure to inform him that the
eflel he had deitmed some weeeks since to
Ung.and, has been obliged to put back and
the voyage is for the prefeut poftt oned, a
Circumitance that may poflibly prove fortu
nate, as u might have happened .hat a decree
finular to that of the 6th. Nov. lafl might have
uTued without any previous no ice, leaving
his veiTel and cargo only fubjea to adjudica
-on her arnva . This is' the onl/ vessel
he has for some time paii deliined to a Bri
lfh port, but others have unfortunately found
Th? I v greatl y t0 his Prejudice.
.?' P Af „ bvc has h «» for this fix or eight
months past, detained at Falmouth, tho'
t'fll Nantes with property warran
f,, mer ' ca « ; the Mercury was after great
m ?! r C3ptain a,,d crew > detained
upwards of two months a: Jamaica, fubjea
to worms destroying her bottom, without any
pretence of French property on board, and
Without any compensation ; the John was
tTffi SI nfc -' b >' the cr ew of a Bri
fnfrH f °° P ar ' and 3,1 compensation re
months deKmio "
This vefrJ o °o sterling disbursements.
h " ve f el was the time employed in ca
rving wheat the Briufh had taken for their
own account, tho destined for St. Ma].>es
from one of their own ports, before the war
SXd nCCa!!dGr '* : Brirai " had been
»• ith to the citizen's enquiry as to
Mr ' S - ca " him
that he has at fun,try times, ddlined a conli
tf; nln" 1 "? H Clrg ° es 0f P rov "ionß, to
the ports of Havre de Grace, St. Vallerv,
Bordeaux and Dunkirk, as well as Guadat
loupe, Martinique and Hlfpamola, on his own
account and for others, from all which, Mr
S. has derived considerable emolument, nor
•Jj? d''n- vefltls been freighted back
Wt f- 1 !' th r°' they havc obtai ned very
lucrative freights for the Isle of France and
Hifpamola, payable frequently in advance
and always in solid coin. aaxance,
Mr. S. has indeed a ship embargoed at
Bordeaux, but lire is under a very advanta
geous charter and he has full confidence that
the justice and wisdom of the Nation'
vention, will not fuffer him to beaWaimTo"
hefK° n M nCe "J- Government, altho'
far£s° th"'7' 1• °u brib ' ng their commi <"-
' thls ', mght 1S besides insured, and is
Z e hT» o^! thCnfqUe ° f the Underwriters
On the whole, Mr. S. has no enmity for
the citizen to tell of, to the people of Great
Britain ; on the contrary, he has always cul
tivated the most friendly and mutually pro
fitable intercourse with them—but reallv he
of IffiS tm n ° Cpi,he:s can be thought
provofed\t^CX; h „dateUn
? hich has befallen S&
from the mealures so secretly adopted "y the
government of that nation-measures whkh
appear to have only plunder for objert.with
out materially influencing any of the inr,.
efting ohjedls of the war.
March 2a, 1794.
For the Gazette of the United Srjres,
"^MANY 1 <ofth'Rfra0 f th ' R fr ag ' rSO f l h' Theatre.
it'fft j '■cfpedlable citizens were much
disgusted, Saturday evening with »-k £►
Piece called the
y indecent and very improper to be adfed
before modejl women, or indeed any p er f„ n ,
who are friends to decency. If Sat,.Z p . " s
•to be specially appropCd"
formances, to gratify the coarse tin P c
sibf r - clafs '^ itbekn °^h«tL O Lf!
pertable citizcns mav keen ».*
daughters at home, and notfuffer thedTlWs
of feeing them embarrassed at such profs di
alogue as that with which thef,™» rr i. ,
abo UE *. Theftagewalint&f"
school for morals and to refine the t,a. k
surely, obfeene and vulgar dialogues cnn'ft
I fweanng, and low buffoonery, f owever fh
may excite the loud laugh L.j, ?' Y
crowd, tend to vitiate tL ,"n ""thinking
moral. anddebl"ch t he he^. e of r ?r Upt thf
W i! Theatre" XoTakf
-
iiuprcfiions on many either dangerous or dif
guJting.
A trUnd to the Drama, and Public Decency.
CONGRESS.
Houft of Representatives.
Wednesday, January 29.
T he SPEECH of Mr. Smith, of South'
Carolina, in reply to Mr. Madison, on
the fuljeS of the Commercial Regulations.
Mr. Smith said, before he entered in
o a confideratinn oi the arguments of the
(en tie man from Virginia, he (houjd avai'
limielf of the opportunity of correainj
ome m.statements of his own arguments
<Wncn had Leen made by that gentleman.
In that gentleman's speech, he ha.
3een represented as having stated it as
a ?°: to , thls country, that Great Britai.
idmitted our produaions into her Wef
Indies; Mr. Smith said, hehadonlyftat
-d that the exclusion of the produdion
>t all other countries, was * preference K iv
-n to our's, which was not given bv th<
."ommercial system of France. He' wa:
iHu represented by the gentleman, as hav
ng argued, •• That the United State
Might not to complain of the usage o
L'leat Britain, if |i, e l; fed them as wella
Hher nations whereas, Mr. Smith said
us reafonmg went to shew, that her com
nercial system placed us on a better footim
han it did other nations. Again, he wai
nade to fay, by the" gentleman, « Thai
f Great Britain used us ill, {he likewif,
lied every other nation ill, and we there
ore ought to bear it patientlyMr
smith declared he had said no such thing
>e had aigued only that the exclusion o
3ur vefTe S from an jndireft commerce witl
a,,d fm,n the c "try into her iflanda
Ads a part et her navigation ait and co
ony lyftem, and extended to all othe
nations as well as the United States.
Ie gentleman, in adverting to his ha
"ng tJJtcn -or the epoch of his compara
•ive view the period antecedent to the
x-ncing French revolution, as the set
led order of thmgs, had attempted by ar
"candid d,! ; ort ' u " his argument! t<
Zt fr ° m a commercial to :
Political fubjea, for the purpose of repre
S !i ' m as deeming the monarchy u
■ lance the only f et t!ed order of things
V was truc ' he had confined his view o
.he two commercial f y fl cms to that efioch
r": v!x e i ad^ n > P ursued the idea, ant
P nt of Mr. Jefferfon himfelf, who, speak
ng in report of the recent alteration
n the condition of our commerce, fays
To have deienbed all these, wo „jj ], av:
?een as impracticable as useless, f.nce th
cenes would have been fhifting while un
-r c^fci iption ; 1 therefore think it bel
" j thc re P' Jrt as it was formed, beinc
idapted to a particular point of time, whei
lungs were ™ thcir fettled order, that J
olay, the fummerof i 7 g 2 » Mr. Smitl
>bfu\ed, that Fiance was at that time ,
nonari y, and he had been governed bi
he fame ,dea as the Secretary of State
" pipping at that period, when a (late 0
evolution gave birth to changes in h
permanent system, and induced deviation
hings Ut W ° Uld thC ordina T cuur k o
The propriety of limiting the view tc
hat epoch was obvious, from the concei
ion of the member himfelf, who, having
tated that American velfels were permit
ed to be naturalized in France, and bei n .
"formed by Mr. Smith, that tiie firft
.as mentioned in the report) had be?,
to acknowledge the exiitenc
>f Aquations m her fyflem since the re
'olution Th's view of the fubjea Mr
jmith said was more favorable to Franc
han one which Ihould embrace the pre
ent period ; her ancient commercial fy
em being on the whole moie favornWe ti
his country than it is at this time. He ha<
-een also represented by the fame gentle
aS having admitted that it was ;
lardlhip to have our trade monopolized b
>ne nation, and having at the fame timi
tdviied to make no efforts for puttina a,
-dtoit." This was direetlythe 'cverf
>t hi. sentiment, which was, « That i
vas advifeable not to depend on any on,
iat,on for our necelfary supplies, but tha
he proper remedy was by a mode, not th
-bjea of the resolutions, nor contcmplat
d by the report, namely, an ejuaewus fy!
,m of encouragement to our oivn manufac
«res, and not fubjeaing our citizens t,
he cxpence of premiums for the encou
agement of other countries."
tier PreCttdd to ■*»' »o
Madilon's arguments: Th
gentleman had fa id that what and Join*
were admitted by a Jlantiing law duty fre~
into the French WefUndies. The report
States the contrary to be the fafi; "France'
| fayS w Ly a A"<% law, permits
her Well India poiTeffions to receive di
reaiy our vegetables, live provifior.s"
horfes,.woods, tar, pitch, and turpentine,
rice and maize, andprohibits our clhtr tree I
\PI-
(Speech to be continued.)
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 24.
Extras of a letter from an intelligent Mer
chant in Charlejhn, S. C. dated Febma
0-2+, 1794.
With respect to the proposed commer
cial regulations, there can be little doubt
that they would have injurious effe&s, in
which ever way they can be viewed
with refpea to an increase of duties
there can be little doubt if a considerable
addition 13 made, that it would not increase
the revenue, as it would try the virtue of
many and have the cflch to introduce
imugglmg ; besides driving many pejfons
from carrying on a trade which must "be
attended with loss ; far, fiom the present
burdens occalioned by the vcrv great ad
ditional expence of freight and insurance,
manyperfuns are holding their hands as to
importations from an apprehension of
grest lofTes in remittances—lt is certain
ly a more proper mode in the nrft inftnnce
to represent the inquiries we have received
and to require redress, than to engage in
ralh measures, which we ate not able to
support ; and if we cannot obtain jufticc
It would be better to decline commerce
altogether, for a time, than to pursue a
conduct which would bring us into expen
ses, which must operate to injure us for a
long time to come.
The managers of the New Theatre gene
roufiy and humanely purpose appropriating
the profits anfing from this evening enter
ta.nmcnt, towards mitigating the hife-im,,
of our diftre.Ted brethren at Algiers. An
offer so noble and philanthropic iuftly men ts
Phil dl ? and a PP ro s hationof citizens of
Philadelphia, and wsl! no doubt ensure anu
merous audience.
By this Day's Mail.
Latest European Intelligence.
BOSTON, March 17.
[Lajl Friday Evening Captain HovilanJ
arrived her: from Cork, ij, 55 dl , yl>
brtr.gmg papers to J s ,i January, f- om
■which we have cxtraSed the following.]
OSTEND, Dc.'.ember 30.
mdTenger isjult arrived with intdli-
V'" 1 '" 8 have b;e » totally
dir , ft J ' hd evacuated
a PARIS, December 31.
, Ana «iariis Cioou, and Thomas Paine,
aepnvcd by a Decree of ,he convention
their feats, have been arretted, and
prffoners, i^ e ' r Pa P erS ~ T ° ta > *e
In the fitting of the Jacobins of the
Wrr', r - an "°" nccd ' that 3i°ber
ipierre, jun. arrived from Toulon was
waiting i„ t he Hail of thc A £
having been admitted he gave the follow!
<ng account of the taking of Toulon.
br ,h gUe Was well defended
b f the enemy, and ft;« morc by itsforti^
cations; but ,t could not hold out against
tL rrlJ of ollr bnve fo^cr S .
Ihe Engliih alarmed at la much boldncfs,
fled on all i.dcs, and left us in peaceable
poffeffiop Of this rebel city. w *
wholly on fire. The horizon, for f our
leagues round reflected this dreadful con.
Aagration. ' concluded with £
count of some events of the siege.
LONDON, January 6.
fer to" e |" er p r ' lte " fr r ° m General Wurm
fJrad
(ZT7 Dn f'" {e da >' 3 ' 2ria *>**«oft
iome pieces of cannon, and h-d about
f THi ' Dutc °< Brunf.
wicJt has bkcwife retrnted to co-onermtc
with General Wurmfer. 'Reportt are }n circulation, which, al
though fa&ioned by fame of the hlghe.l
names in the kingdom, we can only (late
the rmaoarof the day :
According to these reports, the French
who on the 23d ult. occupied the strong
pout ion at Hagaeiiau, from which they
had driven General Wurmfer, gave orders
to their General for improving this ad
vantage. They brought him to a gene
en on the 24th, in which he
was totally routed, his artillery, (lores,and
camp equipage taken.
On the 25th they attacked the Duke
of Brunfwick in his cntrenehments, for
ced them with the (laughter of 12,000 of
his men, and drove the remnant of his ar
my into a situation in which it was suppo
sed they mull either be cut to pieces or
lay down their arms.
The Neapolitan Prince taken by the
French at Toulon, is son to the King of
Naples, and nephew to the late Queen of
France.
Accounts by the way of Brufleli speak
ing of our late misfortunes at Toulon,
state, that Fort Mulgue, which the
A icuch call the EnghHi redoubt, was oc
cupied by 2,500 Britilh and joo Spanilh
troops, die two flanking redoubts by 200
men, picked from the troops of all de
fcnptions, and that of the whole num
ber not one escaped, and only 500 made
prisoners.
. ; J". 7-
Orders have been feat from the Admi
ralty for (ixteen ftips of the line, none of
them under. 74 guns, and in the beil con
dition of eqaipment, to rendezvous at
Sp:thead with as much dispatch as poffi
bic, and to be ready to fail on the flior.-
eft notice.
The French armies of the Mczelle and
the Kiiine, having formed a jun&ion, have
a; la't fncceeded in driving Gen. Wurm
icr from his itroug poiitioaat Magtieneau
with confidence !ofs; and as their prin
ciple of war is to ast in great bodies, and
tc press constantly forward, he will pro
bably be obliged to evacuate the whole
province. Their Generals appear to ac
quire military /kill by experience, and
their {oldiers are evidently worked up to
a pitch oi enthusiasm, which toil, naked
nels, and carnage, emmjt repress.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
IXtember 26.
Pechegru, commander in Chief of the
Army ai t!ie Rhine, to the Minifterof
War.
" Head-Quarters, Hagu
eneau, Dec. 27.
" I did not write to you an account of
the action of yelterduy, because General
Hoche, with whom I then was, sent you a
courier on this occafios. Our troops Ihevv
ed a true republican courage; the mod
formidable petitions, fortified by whatever
art could add to nature, were carried by
the point of the bayonet. The action was
renewed this morning ; but as, at an early
hour, I quitted the left, to go to the right
I am ignorant of what Hoche has done
to-dav.
" l*he enemy Ii 'si quitted Bifchoillei"S #
Dufcheim, and Hagucneau, notwithftand
>"g the almjii continued works by
which they had covered the line which
joins the two pofb. ■ The last had been
fortified with such care that it required
nothing lets than the dispositions we had
made, and the bravery and courage which
oor fbldiers alone ftiew, to oblige them to
retreat. We will only wait the time ne
ceflary torefrefti the troops, who arc great
ly fatigued, and we will not give them
any relaxation.
" I have reqnefted the magillrates to
point oat to roe the Aristocrats who re
main in the town, that I may treat them
ai they dderve. I do not yet know all
that has been taken from the enemy; but
there arc cannons, ammunition, covered
waggon*, and baggage, 111 great plenty.
There are at least a tbooiand prisoners. I
hope to gj*e yon good ncw» to-morrow.
(Signed)
Pechecru."
Citizen Kochc, commanding the Army
of the MuzeEe, to the Minister of War.
" Head-Quarter/, at Vercb, Dec. 23.
** I emJd not jrc&crjgjr give you any
&rnih, bei»g so very bnfy 5 and am yet
fc. How tier, according to the best re
port# I We bad, we bare taken 16 pieces
of 24 tTßOlfcvSs, from 450 to 500
wltiwj, ami kiled or wounded 500.
TbcbnAoMftd'the attack occasioned us
of above 80 kOled and
ISO BMWJIJ.
" IV matkwM Made at day-light.
Thd troops cam- without breeches. I dc
fire you will make known to the Canven
tio.i and the Republic-, tile names of the
troops who behaved belt, the 3d regiment
ofhulTars, the 14th dragoons, thecaribi
neers, and the 55th regiment of infantry.
" Gen. Dubois, unfortunately wound
ed, behaved like a hero, or what is better,
like a Republican.
" Carts full of arms are yet brought
in. I have given the locks to the brave
volunteers. 1 have iiTued this niglrt the
moil precise orders, the grand develop
ment of the army (hall take place. It on
ly remains for me to lead on the army of
the Rhine j and if the right second me, 1
will proceed.
■ 1 have two tatters of colours taken
from the soldiers of crowned plunder«rs.l
will fend them on the firft occasion to the
Nation Convention. I cannot write more.
(Signed) " HOCHE."
December 27.
In tins feflion the plan of a Decree
prelentcd by the Committee of Public
Welfare was adopted, viz :
That a National Fete (hall be celebra
ted throughout the Republic on the 30th
of December, at which the whole Con
vention in a body (hall be present : That
the name of Toulon (hall be fupprefled,
and that Commonalty be henceforth cal
led Port de la Montagne (Port of
the Mountain J : That the t'oufes within
that rebellious city fr.all be levelled with
the ground, and nothing preserved but the
eftablilhments necessary for the service of
the War and the Marine, and for the fuh
fiitence and supplies; and, That the flews
of the capture of Toulon (hall be carried
to the armies and the departments by
extraordinary couriers.
In this fdlion, THOMAS PAINE,
with a]! the other foreigners, was expel
led from the Convention by a decree pro
posed by Barrere, and pafl'ed in the fol
lowing words: " Even- foreigner is, and
(hall be,, excluded from the National Re
presentation."
SUM M A R r.
" Facche, in his letter to the Miniftcr
of War, fays, we have only one way to cele
brate the viilory, j r 3 rebels (hill be (hot th :.s
evening at Touion."
The French have gained an important
near Haguenau, twenty - second
Dec. An union of the armies of the Rhine
and Molelle, having been erfe&ed, they ac
tacked the combined forces under General
Wurml'er, and obtained a signal victory over
them, taking 16 pieces of cannon, 20 trum
brills, and 500 prisoners. .JJVJyf; of the
French 300 kiled and wounXd." The killed
of the combined forces was supposed to fce
more, as the French Commifiioners fay,
" Tiie number of their slain mult be very
considerable, for our troops took no prison
ers until they wire tired of killings." Gen.
Dubois of the French was wounded.
The Republican troops have nearly extir
pated the rebels of La l ends:.
Mr. Thomas Paine, was arrested, and or
dered to be tried before the Revolutionary
Tribunal.
Preparations for a new campaign were
making; but from the diiTatisfaclicn of the
Emperor to certain proceedings, the poverty
of the King of Prufiia, who has demanded
to be subsidized, and the fears of the Spa
niards, the profpedt of a negociation for
Peace is not wholly obfeured.
A letter from Paris, expressly Hates, that
the preparations for a dtfeent 011 England, go
on with vigour.
The French in one attack on th» combined
armies on the borders of the Rhine, were de
feated, with the loss of 20 cannon. The
Austrian papers fay, the loss of the French
was 5000.
NEW-YORK, March 22.
A veflel arrived yefterdav from St. Lucea,
the Captain of which, we hea-. brings posi
tive accounts that the J(land of Martinique
is completely in pofleffion of the Eng. force 3.
Extrafl of a letter from a gentleman in Bour
deaux, to his friend in this city, dated Jin.
sth 1794.
" There is great hopes the embargo will
be taken off in a few days, and compensation
made for the detention, and good freight for
America.
The eftimite I have made for my deten
tion is loco dls. 80 ct,-.—for Teamen's wagci
440 dls. 70 cts.—Hope to be with you"in
two months and to your fatisfa&ion.
Extradi of a Letter from a Gentleman in
Bordeaux to his friend in this City, datad
6th December, 1793.
" No doubt you will think it long to be
without some account of u». When vou
know, we have been four months embargoed,
it will account for it.—Little can be even now
said to you without danger.—l will refer you
to some letters forwarded to , which
will give you an idea of our situation, and
how uncertain it is how or when we {hall r;-
turn.— Vt i have t' . we ,-err
heU as for .amc ..aii-avi! a a«cu.
to b. h.;i wu_; A;..tr .a.
Another Extradl from HourdeauA, dated 16th
of Decembtr, 1793.
** A Committee of Merchants under the
influence of the ruling Powtrs, have charter
ed 4 American veiels, to take 400 tons 0 f
brandy to your country —By this means they
intend to purchase up the flour, while the
other ft,p. are kept under an embargo—
VV"« W ;ii your countrymen thiah of all
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVALS.
Ship Oharleflon, German, Charlefto.Ts
ociiooiier Commerce, Oavidfon, do. 6
Polly and Sally, Skinner, Norfolk j
MOTDLuriana, Church, St. Thomas 14
1 eiterday evening arrived the fchaoner
Sady and Polly, capt. Skinner, 7 days from
lNoriolk, he infor.ns that on the 16th inft,
he 'poke a sloop belonging to Norfolk, in 14
diysfrom St. Bartholomews, who had in
formed him that accounts were rece ved there
that M irrimque had fdlen into the lun-os ai
the Engliih.
A fchomer belonging to New-England,
. om I arts Island, arrived at Fort Miilun
ytlierciay evening.
„ (Ir ', 1 "'ft- oT Charleston £ar, Capt
Uav.cion (poke the French privateer Sans
r'anellc, which had captured a very valuable
prize, (a Spanish brig from the Havannah)
r j J t0 Augustine.Same privateer had cap
tured z other prizes, and sent them in;o
Charleston some time before Capt. Davidfon
iailed.
Captain Skinner Ipoke a fioop in 14 days
from St. Bartholomew s, the Capt. of which
confirms the accounts of the capture of Mj-
tinique.
Arrivals and departure!: of vcfiels at and
from the port of Philadelphia, March 179 j,
and March 1794 —taken from the Ceffce-
House books.
From the iftio 23d March 1793,
arrived
Same period cleared 38
From die ifi to 23d March 1794,
cleared 46
Same period
Bo A -. March JZ Arrived here the
ichooner Peace and Plenty, Capt. Nathaniel
Kent, from New Providence, which he left
the id Feb. He informs, that in the mon'h
otDc-c. he was carried : n there by an EngUlh
privateer, and after being libelled, :u
---tormed that he might depart with his vefi'el
and,cargo, paying expenses: This he refcil
eu ;o do, and choie to lLuid trial for dama
ges, andrecovered to the amount of 3101.
Capt. Kent fays, that the Judge of Admi
ralty at New Providence, (Grant)conduced
the ti .a! with fairnefsand impar
tiality. And informs, that in every cafe
\\ .lerein the captains of American v lif-is
whose cargoes were, bona American
property, have prosecuted for damages they
Have invariably recovered. One initance it
may be necessary to llate ; a fchdonc belong
ing to Mr. Thomdike of Beverly, was tak
enbya privateer, and while in pofkflion of
the captors, was, vessel and cargo, left on a
reef; thel'e fa<3s being proved to the Judge
cf Admiralty, he ordeieu reiljtution 10 be
made to the full amount ot the lols, which
was iz,ooo dollars. The captors of Capt.
Kent fuffered a lofi for his detention, ;m.
Yeftirdajr arrived two brigs from Ca
diz, 60 days passage, the Minerva, Lin
coln, matter, and Palias, AUeii, milter.
Arrived in London from this port, The
Minerva, Captain Scott.
We hear from Nantucket that one of
their whaling vefTelaon their return home
being becalmed, was attacked by an arm
ed boat fr;;m an Algerine cruiser, the
whalemen bravely defended themselves by
a dexterous use of their harpoons, and
defrroved all except two, whom they
brought home to convince Infidels of the
truth of the fact.
Department of state,
March ai, 1794.
HAVING received an inftruftiotr (torn the
President ot the United States, to prepare,
in pursuance of my letter to him of the Id
of March 1794, statements and representa
tions on the leveral cases of vexation aud spo
liation of our commerce ; I must r ootfl all
persons interested, to whom it may be conve-'
nient, to call upon me in the city ot Philadel
phia ; in order that I may arrange with them
the proofs and papers neceflary on the occa
fioo. Those to whom u may be inconvenient
from the distance of their residence to call
upon me will receive thro' the mail, informa
tion of fuel, things, a< they ma J be deficient
in their claims.
Edmond Randolph.
The Printers in the several states are de
lired to publiih Che foregoing notice,
•March ; 4 . d j t
WANTED
AN APPRENTICE
To the Printing Business, Enquire at this
Office.
' jy '.'.cbrmt* just received here front St,
a, it car*, that depredations on aaJ
<■ id situations of Amencau Dapping Are go
ij > p' l " Weft-Indies, on the part otthe
Britir«.—a great number of vetfels hiving
been condemned in the above XUand—Simi
lar a:c >unts are stated iu the pubiicai:<wis
♦roil. -New-York, Bolton, "Sale.a, Ac.
Two memorial and remonft r»nc?« weri
read in the House of Re^r-fci.tativcl of
the United States this day, on the Di
piedatiuns and S;-y!i:.t;c;-s un the Amt<
r c 3 n Commerce, hy Brifi/h Crullers—
One from the MetchiJts a id T;jdcrs of
Charlelton (S. C.) prde ited by Mr W.
i>;n;th—the other from iilcm (Mr.Jachu
fetts) presented by Mr. Goodhue. Ti:<
"Jted, that nineteen fail of veftb)sT>e-
Jonging to that town, had been earired in
and condemned in the Bmifti I (lands <
i- ne eitimated value of which ta about
230000 Dollars. They were read and
referred to the Committee of the whole
on the State of the Union.
The bill proh;biting the carrying on
the Slave Trade from the Ports of the
United States, to any Foreign Place or
Country, has received the Prelidcui'f ap
probation. and figw^turf,
Mr. Sedgwick's refutations brought
forward a few days i'mce, prcpofmg the
raisin g of fifteen regiments prcvilionrJlv,
for the defence of the United States, were
taken up this day in committee of the
whole—the firft refolutiou being read,
was put, and negatived without a debate
——tne others respecting the orga»i/«tion f
fell of —T!ut gentleman then pro
pofedanotherrefi>hitioii,theobjed of which
was to tfcertain the feiifc of the committee,
whether any extra provision for the pro
test ion of the country is neceflaiv—this
brought on a debate—the rv-fplation waj
at length carried in the affirmative, and
a committee of nine appointed to report
a pian to place the force of the country
in a more efficient situation.
NEW THEATRE.
In a:d of a FUND, about to be efiablifhed
tor :r.s relief or redemption of Amsrieart
Citizens, captives Li Algiers,
this evening,
March 24.,
Will be perf'oi mcd,
A COMEDY, called
Everyone Hashes fault
Lord Norland, Mr. Whitlocfc
b;r Robert Ramble, Mr. Clulmert
M l "' « ' Mr - Morris
Mr. Harmony, Mr . B , u ,
Captain Irwni, , Mr. Fennell
?*f- Pla -'?. Mr. Moreton
Hammond,, M,. Green
V JT"' a Mr. Warn-1
Mrs. Marsh I
Lady Eleanor Irwid, Mrs. WhitJccK
Mrt. Placid. Mr*. Rcwion
bpmfter, Mrs. Bate,
.if • Mrs. Morris
J'ne EPILOGUE by Mrs. Waitlock
Previous to the Comedy an Occasional
Addref,.
jind <Jf the Comedy, a ehiraiteriftic
PatUtmimical DANCE, called—
J be Sailer's Landlady
OR,
Jack in Dißrefs.
Mr. Francil
IV ed Ha J yard (tuith a nrzu foi g) Mr. Dar
„ ley, jun.
MdTrs. Wart-ell, Bliff-t,
Warrcll. juil.Lee, Bifoa
and De M>u!!n.
Ms. Cleveland, Mrs.
Bates, Mis». Rowfon, &
Mils. Wiiltms.
Landlady, Mn. Rowfo.l
Orange Girl, Mrs. De Marque
To coil lu'ic witli 1 double HORXPIPJi
by Mr. Francis and Mrs. De Marque.
To which will be ad<'cd,
A Comic t)pera, called
Sailors,
L i.T. j,
The Poor Soldier.
Capt. Fiizroy, Mr. Dartey
Paihtr Liik:, Mr. Fin.lt
Dermot, Mr. Hirl v, Juti,
Paflck, bir. Morctcn
Mr. V. L». .1
Bagatelle, I with the fciig ) Mr. Minhall
®py> J. %Varr«l
Ncr ah t Al» ts Broadhui ft
Katlilecii, jrliii Wiilen*
*«* Those ladies and gentlemen who
have reqtiefted boxes for the ec.tiedr ot "
very cne ha 3 hi» feult," are refpe4fu3l *c
qi a.nted, that it must Beceituii\- be uld i
lide after thi» evening, on ot otbe.-
pices at)v.- in preparattos.
N. B. No money or ticketi to be
nor any perlcil admitted o3 any a-.cuant
wbchind the fceso.FOR SALE,
B, HATRFW CAREY, No. 11S.
Market-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery:
t-o <-x.nt>»i in •» new point of view,
mx-itt+Ui iaUufiry, aiwl <hc of
u< <*c&
/My.
■Uw i« be flwh. <m *r?
p'-m-Hrx ttem
>wc*l«; *nd happ'
orjuv tu>»ts iHcrir own
;f rrcffri- 1 . r'-nclv-ljufv, that
wjV?,
&<• r; v * ' '«■ " 1
C .01:
Pi. » c t Sj,
,J*-V 3X
Writing
OX SIC X-£OA >v DJ, jJ>ANX'D
fj. A T ££, Uc
IX)cv: in Ac moil eltganc nuuaner, and after
the licit mailers ; likewise,
f ire Buckets
PzTnrcr 5 sns fiaiflvfd *t t:ic flaorwli ictlce, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
la Harris's Conn, back of the New Library,
■Cbefmic and Walnut*
Focrtii and Fiftli &necu.
March 4.
Brokers Office,
Stock
s£. "VWi-ihet:, N « w-Y «"» k x.
Nt. .-ki U'vr tnt» -n<: ..i-o i.. t<uihji< hr«nfe!l
JL rai r- V v. the Pt-KCHASfc fcSALKcr
}»tX3Clvs <"<** COMMISSION, .'• gs lf<»vc toot
I r iiis •>•»•!-»«■-it, r-» un. iric/:dj d/tfi oihers, in tbc
o Si">ck Br<»fc»*r. Their w'fso nuy olrafr
to S.var 4'.«ro wwh th.'ir bwfmcls, <w.«y dprn4
upo* im*. •<■'? t ttani.i&e* wiiti {he Uiincft fid<-
il;v
Oidtffc "liom ipfcia, Soften, or any
(he iJoited Siaiej, "be flriffcly
*wo»<3r<i to. LEONARD BLIECK£R.'
m&i taf
NOSRIS.CODRT,
Hick. «f tne New between Ci.efnut
and Waim Streets.
George Rutter,
nfornw his friends and
thd jitfUic 10 general, that he continues
1i( r y»TS 01 'lufincfs of*
Sign and Fire-Bncket Painting,
JAPANNED PLATES,
f>. il.Hiiioc umdow-lhvJttersjdonft in themoil
manner and wjth dispatch.
o:de ••slrom tmj .My M-jJI be thankfully
tct:c-.v<.6, dwy artejv.'ec to.
Deci'ikbcr 3(., dtf
In the Kame of the French
Republic.
Frenchman is forbid to violate
-t-u the Neutrality of the United States.
AU comniifficm or authoiizations tending to
iuh-ingt that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Repc&Lc*
Hiltadeljihii, Ventofc 16th, second year of
the Fre ch Republic, one and ind»vifible
(March &.U, 1794, o.».)
The Mimfier Plenipotentiary cf theFrcncli
Rt "Me. JH. FAUCHLET.
The Editors of newlpapers within the
U.iUtd States, are requefled to republic the
foregoing notice. d
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
■AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from a&ual survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Dommgo.
THI.S F an vx til be 1 iig a vcu 011 a plate 26
inches fqu-nc ; aud u will contain an cx
ait defcuptiou of all the fquarcs, fleets and
alleys in the Cuv and l.ib< rues. The fituatiott
of the ft ver«l publir bui.ding*, such a* the State-
House, Citv-HaU, S«*at of Congrcfs, Churches,
Mceting-Houfes, Hospital, Library and Semina
>ie« of Learning— of the feverai Banks, and of
the Fi-cictal State Offices, will be ffccrtaincd.
The parts wh<ch a«e Wuth on will be d ftingu>(li
ed from those that are not. The couri. sot the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended to connect the
navigation of these two water;, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a
view of the (hipping in the haibor, anil an ele
vation of Congrefv-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the g'ound contiguous.
In (hurt, nothing will he omined to render thi*
us f ill and deftrahle work acceptable to an en
lighten' d public, that is in the author's power :
and it (hll be compleated with the grcated
pofliolr ciifpatch, as soon as the generous encon
ragrment of fubfenhru (hall insure to the author
such a iuin as will be fufficictit to defray ex
pence*.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the jkubfcribers names, and information con
cerning the police, population and prcient state
of the city.
The nrtcc to fuhfcribrrt will be Two Dollars
»nd one third, to be paid at the time of deliver,
ing the Plant.
Subfci lotions will be gratefully received at
the principal Book'ellera .u this ritv—and the
o»'g.i»a! Draft may be fcen at B. Daviis',
N'*. 68, at any tune until it (hall
be r- haodaol (
Jaft Imported,
la lie si*ip Capt. from
St- Peteiiburg in Ruilui,
Aad bow laaiinj at South-ftieet Wlurf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN't DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOCs bristles.
JLTtV ton SALE BY
John D:nnaldfon y
Jfro, 2i, WalnHt-ftrect.
diwjtawtf
as she
Maxell r,, 1794.
M. Carey, No. 118, High-Jireet,
The PROMPTER;
CoMMENTAKT OTI COMMON SAYINGS and
Subjects, which -are full of Common
Ssnir, the btjlfzr.fc in ihe wsrld,
TH IS liule book. >6 wi uic« in a stile altogether
«ovel, and is adapted to all capacities, a*
well as to a4i daffc.*-of people, merchans, mc
cr.*nic6 and farmers. Such a reputation this
vmk th«it it has pallet th>o three im
prcflions in the raitern dates, and many houie-
it fn uCclul as to puichafe a copy
for every adult in theii families. ■ Pa ice «s.
Fe>bi«ary 4. <lit
War Department.
January 3 of A 1794.
INFORMATION is he»eo\ given to . u the
military invalids of the United Siates,thrft the
fu:nt to which thrv are entitled for fix mouths
of their annual pennon, from the tout!h day of
September *793, and which will become due
on Ihe $ih day of \hirch 1794, will hr p*ni on
thefaidday by tbXßommilfioiieiS of. the Loans
within the ltdtcs relp<&«vely, under the wficud re-
gulatimu.
Applications of excciarors and admin'rfiraiors
must accompawud with irgdl i-vidence of
thnr Ttfpi&roe offices* awd alio of the time the
invalids <Jied v wfeufe petition they may claim.
By com ma na <»f tfuPaud ot
of the United S'a :
Ssactary oj IVor.
The printer* in <he ieipctt»vc fta cs arp
trqaeftcd (ofwbhfik the above iu their newspa
pers for the fpacc ot iwo moi ths.
januaty 30.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKE R,
In Mu'berry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying-
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employe*s,
a d requ.?fting tbeir iuture favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
fh nteft notice, a!] kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coache*, chariots, phsetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
rjens, windsor fulkeys and chaii s, and harness
of every description, in the neateli and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best leafoned
wood by him, ard capital workraro, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaftion to those whopleafe td employ him
He has far sale, several carriages alinoft
si lifhed, such as coachees, an Italian wirdfor
chair, hung on steel springs, a lig! t phaeton for
onj or two borles, and a lulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
PHI tdct.-lii-, lan. 6, 1794
In one handsome volume, 12m
JOHN OR M ROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Second
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it impoks.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
C arretted and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
Profeflor of Moral Philosophy, and tie Law
ot Nature, and of Eccleliattical History ;
and Minister of the English Chut en at U
trecht.
Aliquid semper ad communtm utilitatein af
ferendnm. Cicsro.
The Firjl American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality, if right
ly under It ood, is the oniy basis on which
universal justice, sacred order, and perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
1 y secured. The vewof it exhibited in this
eflay, at the fame time that it reprefTes the
insolence of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages of oppreflion ; confirm*, in the
most forcible manner, the necessity of subor
dination, and the joft demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftin&iyn,
draws more clo r ely every foeial tie, unites in
one harmonious and juflly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March iB. eodiwtu&ftf
m&thif
JUST PUBLISHED,
H. KNOX,
Jult Publtfhed,
AND FOR SALE BY
Strert,
D. D.
A &ECOKPEHCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby off red by the Prefideoi and Diiec
tots <»t the Bank of the United States, to any
person who JhdlJ, on or belote the fiiit day of
May or*?, produce to them such a plan and e!e-
Vd ion ot a Backing Houfr, as lYiall be approved
of by them.-——A plain, yet hand'.ome troiu is
desired : The whole building is 10 be fubitaiaudi
and commodious with as much space around it,
as ifor file «*f the ground will admit.
The Lot on which the building is to be erod
ed, is lit lifted on the weft fide ot Third ilreet,
i>ci ween .Chefdut and Walnut ft,eets in Philadel
phia 4 and its demrnfions are 1 Io (eel on Third
ilreet, and about 100 fret weft ward*
THOMAS WILLING, Prudent,
JuJi Imported,
From London, Dublin, and Glasgow,
And now opening for sale,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Marletjlreet t
A Large a d Valuable
COLLECTION er BOOKS,
Among wiucii are the t'olJovving
NE'.V Annual Kegilter for I 792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of rhe Manchester foeiety, 3 vois.
Priest.lv on matter and spirit
on christianity
Difivey's life of Dr. jortln
K'mgvilJe's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty.a collection of eilays
Varieof Prufiia's works
Calm oblervei—by Mackintosh
Kuflell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch'
Elegant extra&s, fnperbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural h itory
Saugnier and Bnifon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madas»afcar
Townfend's travels in Spain
TaftVs Jeiufalein tiel-vered
Sine'l ie*«i translation of Buifon
Berwick's hirtot y of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
HiJftory of b i ds
Philips's hlftory of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of F r ance, in 3 vols.
Curiwfities of literature, 3 vol".
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan'* dictionary. 2 vols.
Dow's hiftnry of Hindollan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
I mlay's dc'lcription of Kentucky
Piclent (late of Nova-Scotta
Present state of Hud lon's Bay
Preston on inafonry
Lavater on phyfK»;nomy> abnd*ed
Zimmerman's Purvey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
N-'cker on executive power
Kilfes of Secur.dus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins ofempires
d2ru
Vaillaint's travels, with i'uperb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history ol American Indians
B'lnington on materialifni and iinma'erialifni
Be-chold's advice to patriotic travelleis
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
G ozier's description ot China
Murohy's translation of 1 acitus
Godwin on political juttice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vo ' s *
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's fketciies of the history ot man
Lib ral opinion*, or the history oi Benignus
Mawe's gardener's di£tiona<y
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playlmufe dt&iouary
Reveries of solitude
Sirtith'* theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of tiie bibie
Watson's life of Philip lid. &: Jlld.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanfey's wonders of the little world, called
Price 5s
Wail s on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in Fiance
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruflia,Poland,&c.
Cox's travels into Switzeijaud
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to ftinales
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&icc of mid-
wiiery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghv»rn'» diseases of Minorca
Innes on Che mulcies
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qnincy's d fpeu/atpry
Edinburgh diJpenfatory
Lewis's difpeniatory
Ryan on the aftlnna
llobertfon's treatise 011 fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on difeates of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Matei ia Medica
Fordyce on dig? (lion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on toe diseases of heat
Monro on dileaies of armies
Haller's phyliologv
Spalanzane's dilfertatinns
London practice of phytic
Uell's surgery
Chapta/s cheuiiiiry.
For Sale by tht Subfcwibers,
MUSCOVADO Sugar in iiiwik.&iyfadL
Hyson and Souchong Teas-
Sherry Wines, of fupcriur on j£ip«
and quarter calks.
Spanish Indigo.
Boston Beef, in barrels.
And a small invoice of MnfEsa-
NALBRO' & JOHN FJMZEER,
No. 1 Soucb EnroHtftiioek.
■March $.
Lately Publi&sd.
SOLD BT
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Secokh-Ssheet:
THfc HiJiory of New-Ha infinite, Itcmr iifee
Discovery of the River Pifra-uqa* by J&.
rtmiah Belknap, D. D. 3 Vol*. Pmtce m»
4 1 2 D >ib r «.
The Foirrftcr, an America* Ssc-fflg a
Sequel to the Hiiiory of John Bull the Cxnlncr.
Prce, 75 Cents.
A D icourfe, irwendid to cwiuwMwntc ifce
Dilcovcry oi America by C«Ho«b.
bus; delivered ai i l»e t> qmft <»f the HblfczMical
Society in Maffdchufeus O&tfker *38, >79**
being the complewm of ihe Thud Cnwu't,
since thai memorable event. T<® which arc
Fi'ur Di(V rtatioiu., comcfifed wa'faihe
fubj{ft—By the faine author. Pt»Oe, 50 Cna.
_M*ich '7-
'Jo be Sold at Public Vendue y
On Friday the I tthday of April next,
at the house of John Tbamfen, in Perth-
Amb oy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
THE Lot contains eleven acies # on which i»
an orchard of grafted apple t«cts, a well of
excellent water, a large ftonc c ftrrn, and a vety
commodious liable and coach-houfr, and a great
quantity of the heft building tt mcs »n the walls
of the house, which was foimerly built lor the
residence of the Governors of N< w-Jo fey. The
<it.ua t ion of this Lot i> f > well known lor 11$
heaithtneft and hja.uiiful profpeft of «he Ran cm
rivet to the weft of the bav, and Sandy-Ho kto
the C/tft, that a turiher dcfc.iption i> unn< c> ff-»ry.
The conditions of falc will be , one thud ol the
purchase money to be paid on the firft day of
May n< xt, when a good and foffieinv D ed will
be given to th purchaser, by Waltbr Ku.
t her surd, F.fq. Piifideut of the Boa»d of
Proprietors ol the Eastern Divi&.m of N\w-
Jr.fev, «"0 the remaining two faiisU&o
rtly feeured in tonal annual |>a\ men j,
By ordct of chr Board,
JAMES PARKER, Rcgifter.
Perth-Anbo\. Fehrvarx 5 >704 2^v.2m
Excellent CLARET,
In and in calcs ol 50 Panics each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipck, iio^lhrads and quaitcr casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No, in, Fruui ltrcci,
Jan. 2, 1794.
Henry R„pe State of Maryland.
v ' s High Coui t of Chancery,
Benjamin Gaither > March sth. 1794.
and \
Basil Gaither
The Complainant dates
in his b II that the defendants Benjamin Gai
tiier and Bad! Gaither were fetzed in fee as
tenants in common of a tract of land in Fre
d.* ick County, called Hammond's Strife
that bcj.ng so seised, Basil executed a power
of attorney to Benjamin authorizing him to
fejl his, the said Basil's intcrefl in t!.e fa d
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin fold
the laid land toa ce l tain William Ga"her for
the confidetation <o£{jpc hundred pouud«which
hath been since paid, that the ("aid William
hath ailigned to the Complainant Henry Rape
the bond executed by the said Bei jamin for
the conveyance <»ft ie fa d land : The Com
plainant now further states (fcrd so appeals
to the Chancellor) that the defendants are
non-residents of the tlate of Maryland, and
herefore out of the reach of the p. otef* of
this coui t.
It is therefore adjudged aad ordered, that
the Complainant procure a copy of this or
der to be infer ted in the new (paper of Angejl
a id Sul ivan, and m the United States Gazet;e
at least three weeks successively, before the
tw«4iti< th day of May next ; to the intent
lhac the Defendants at d all other-,, who may
conceive themselves intereftt-d in tlie p rem if*
es, may have notice to appear in this court,
on or before the thiid Tuesday.in September
next, to (hew cau'e wherefore a decree (hould
not pal's for v.ftmg in the Complainant a Com
plete title to the land aforefaid.
Telt,
SAMULL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. Con,
March 18
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible (ituation,—alfo a Country Seat
wnhto 6 milv s of the City, wi>h 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of Jand and tneadow, the
Houle is u«t exceeded by many in the vic:nity
January 23,
tufh&rsgv
r.;&th— tt