#a?cttc of fl)t lltitfcl) States
EVE
[No. 24 of Vol. V.]
Just Imported,
From London, Dublin and GiASCorr,
Ai-.d now oien'mg for ai:, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jlrcct^
A La pe ano VaiuaHe
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NE!/ Annual Hegtilerfor 1792
European Magazine for the frrft fix
/. mouths of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of tbe Roman slmpii
MemcSrs of" the Mancheftcr l'ocicty, 3 vols.
Prieftjyon matter and I'pirit
on chrfftianity
DifneyV life of Dr. Jdrtin
K»ngviJle's ancient geography
D'Anoir* of Guy Joli
Mcmty, a co!le<slion ofeffiyi
Varieof Prussia's works
Cafm observer—by Maekintofti
Rufiell's ancient atxl mode n Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant toiler bly gilt
extracts of natural history
Snugnicr and BrUTon's voyage
Rothon's vovaj»e to Madagascar
Townfend's travel! in Spain
Taff »'s Jerufalein delivered
Stuellie's tranflarion ofßoflfon
Berwick's billot y of quadrupeds.
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips'* history ofinland navlgatioa
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, »•» 3
Cnriofities of*literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
.Shericfon's dktkmary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindo»tan
Sketclies of the Hindoos
Key r« partite literature.
i inlay's dtfcfrijUion of Kentucky
Tiefent state of tfewScotia
Pre tent ft ate of Hudlbn's Boy
Preston on muibnry
Larlter on plivfio'nomyj abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Mifphy's life of D r - Johnson
Net ker on executive power
Knifes of Sectindus
Gadlcry of porn aits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vail taint's travels, with luperb m t ravingi
Dowitman's twfiuVcy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on ma to* ialiftn and imma'erialifm
Rerchold's advice to patriotit travellers
Builder's magafcine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on pol tical joflice
Gaietteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's iketclies of the history of mnn
Liberal opinion*, or the htftory of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoir* of the Cromwell famHy
Playhouse di&ionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of m<Jral sentiments
Stackhonfe's hifto»v of the bible
Watson's ttte of Philip lid. & Hid*
NVonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Vanley's wonders of the littie world, called
man
Wall'.# on the prevention ofdiftafet
Moore's journal in Fiance
Cox's travels into Denmark, Rnflia, Poland,&c.
Cox'? travels into Switzerland
R.tbant's history of tha French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern anriquities
Mothe-rby's medical dr&ionary
Gr ; gg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's praflice of plryfic
Cleghorn'* diseases of Minorca
lores on the mufclet
Pott's works
Fourcr«y's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qnincy r s dfpenfatory
Edinburgh rf : .fpenfatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
>licholfon,'s chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Mateiia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
'Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on di.'cases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzaue's d fiertations
London pra&ice of physic
Bell's fii^ery
N I N G AD V
E. Oswald,
No. 156, Markct-St'eer, South,
\ T the rtqueft of a number of friends,
proposes publifliing The Independent
Gazetteer, twice a week, viz. Wednesdays
and Saturdays— to commence in January next,
if Sufficient encouragement offers
It wilj be published on Paper and Types
equal to its present appearance. The fuh
fcription dollars per aniu
Advertilement* not exceeding a square,
will be itiferted 4 times for 1 dollar—tvn y
continuance one fifth of a dbllar. Thi». r e ex
ceeding a square, to the fame proportion.
CA.STELLI,
Italian Stay and Habit-Maker,
ENCOURAGED by ftveral Ladies of Phi.
ladelphia, rtOw in New-York, has emov
ed from thence to Hm citv, in Cooper'i- Out t|
No. 35 nortU iide of Mulberv ft'eef, between
Front and Second; where all kind; of Stays
are made—as Italian lhapc, French corset,
Englilb, Silk turn, RicTing,Sutkj ing stays, Arc.
Also, Lad s Habits, Surtou'*, Gowns, and all
k nds of dresses for balls, comph t.d it) the
newest a»>d most elegant fqfiion.
Any lad'es in New York and Char'cftrn,
who tray wish to employ him, aid v ill be
plea ed to fend the'r meaf'ures (hall have ihei
wo k finiilied with the utmost ueattiefs- and
dii'pa*-ch.
N. B. Caftelli has an affortroent of
ready made (lays to felk
h". 7 * 3 *"•
Bank of the United States
Janua r y 6t!\ l "94-
NOTICE is hereby g'ven, that t e e wPt,
Iv pa : d at the Bank, after tilt; sixteenth
'nft..nt,. to the Stockholders or their reprefen
t.t;ves. duly authorized if teen dollars and
fi;ty ce t . for each (hare, being the dividend
declared for the last fix months:
Jw Cafb er.
Excellent CLARET,
In ai>d in c..l & ol 50 now ics each,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipe?, hogsheads and quarter cask.%
IFOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. sit, South Front »ttrcet.
dtf
Jin. », 1794.
NOTICE.
BEING drfirout of dosing various commer
cial concerns, and that all powers hereto
foie granud relative Co the fame (hould be re
volted, and public notice of it g'ven, to prevent
any poflible mi (take ; I, the fubfenber, do here
by make known to all whom it may concern,
that all powers and letters of attorney, of every
nature and extent, granted by me to any person
or per (on*, prior to the vft day of July last, to
ad for me or in itiy name in Ami* fCA, are re
voked and made void.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
New-York, Jan. 1, 1794. d»w
NORRIS-COURT,
Back of the New Library, between Chefnut
and Walnut-Streets,
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
c; Trying on the bnfinefs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewil'e, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-lhutters,done in tlie mod
elegant manner, and with dilpatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
MONfcY borrowed or loaned, accounts fta
•cd or colle&ed, employers fui-ed with
domefticJ, hottfe rooms, boat (ring and lodging
armed, Ut or procured— folder's, manner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims .on the
public ; (bares in the bank;, in the canals, and
the turnp'We iodd ; certificates granted by the
public, and the old and late paper monies;
notes of hand, biits. bonds and roorgagcS, with
«»r without depoiits—Bought, fold, or rrgo
ciatcd at No. 8, in south Sntk. ftieet. below
Market-ftteel by FRANCIS V MITE,
Who tranfa&s business in the public offices for
country peop'e and others, by virtue of a pow
er of attorney, or by peifonal application.
Dccembci 11.
ey Gentkmen, in pojejfum of Subfeription
papers for this Gazette, arc requcjhd to
transmit them to the Editor't Office*
Thursday, January 9, 175)4.
By Order,
JOHN XE.'N,
A L sco,
E
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Finno,
The subsequent lines were written by a
youth, who unfortunately pofTefled an
amorous affection for a young lady, with
whom he had 110 personal acquaintance.
Should you find a vacancy, oblige me
by inserting it in your paper. It is
not for the elegance of the composition,
but for its Angularity thatlwifh it pub
lifted, f;*r the amuf>.:nent of your rea
ders.
Hudiisr.is, jun,
To the Amiable Miss
£Amet'ir cjl pejor Siuko.J
LONG!
hr.r: I fo;:gl.t to
pleai
Yft vainly fousr
g'.:t, I frankly do confefs,
ico lome such odd p'tiren-
But leafl pp-chai
.. you,
O deign to read ail ardent youth'j ad-
'/.y faz
di'cfo
And, dearth girl, believe each line I
vi-'te you,
Flows from my heart, like the moll
limpid ilreani;
For though I court you in a manner quite
new,
Think not my fuffering» a fancied
(uvan j!
Long I hare lov'd unknown, and long
have lar.^uifh'd,
. Long have I wifh'd, and hop'd, and
figh'd in vain,
Then let not oue with such afflictions an-
guifh'd,
Be ridicul'd for telling you his pain !
I blulh to own how I have past my hours,
By balhfulnefs in fccret pirj'd alone,
But now so urg'd by love's most potent
powers,
I make cach foible of my passion known.
Methinks 'twas firft, some several years a'
go. I
Beheld you walking in the ftreet—O
pain !
saw, I lov'd, ah, faireft girl! and know, I
Could ne'er learn more of you, than
your sweet name.
Oft have I flood, and gaz'd to fee you
walking;
When every Itep your lovely form dif
play'd;
Oft, loft in transport, have I heard you
talking,
When round your lips a thoufaud cu
pids play'd!
Your countenance the mirror of your
heart is,
In which I lee the virtues of your mind;
To those your beauty but your smallest
part is ;
But to prove faultlcfj, shew me you are
kind.
Smile then propitious—tell me that you
love me,
And all my life I'll live to give you joy;
Ot, can you, cruel! fay you soar above
me,
And call me uovice, simpleton or boy
Yet pity, pardon me, most lovely crea
ture,
If my uncouth address you disapprove,
For though my muse it lamt I Hill will
beat her,
'Till {he so hobble as to gain you love.
She, *h, poor Prut! whose tender limbs
are brittle,
Anxious, to please you leapt ot once
too high,
Which hurt her much and makes her limp
a little,
Yet cad on her a favorable eve.
Her fate is hard, yet harder far is mine
though
She may impnve but I mult e'er decay,
For if you hate me I am left to pine, O !
With nought to comfort te but dire
difrrjy.
R T I S E R.
[Whole No. 482.]
Then let no fopling in his tinfel'd deaths
elicit,
Whose head in inward air in outward
part
Resembles rr.oft an huge big empty crows
nest,
Make an impreflion on your t-ncicr
heart.
Nor the vain fcol whose only boall of
wealth is,
Whose finj'e and virtue sparkling r ,'J
make (hine;
Nor smiling lycophants, whose view you/
pelf is,
Though either kneeling, swear their
heart is thine.
But deign, O deign, in thy fair to
kindle
A flame for me whose obje£l ne'er wis
pelf,
And let me not to worse than notluug
dwindle
Who e'er mull love thee belter than
irtyfelf.
January 7, 1794.
Philadelphia, January, 17 94
SIR,
I have the honour to end ,fe herewith, <n ac
count of the quantity of flour Slipped for ix»
portation at this port in the last fix months i f
the last year, and have adiied thereto the rum*
ber of barrels shipped in the fix mouth-, preur
ing, (returns whereof had been nude) thcri by
placing in one view the whole number ol bar
rels exported in the year 1793.
With very great refpedt,
1 have the honour to be,
Sir,
Your obedient and
Humble fcrvani,
JAMES READ.
His Excellcncy Th»ma« Mifflin,
Governor of Pennsylvania.
Account of the Flour ihipipc4 for exportation at
the port of Philadelphia in the Tuft 6 nfiouths
of the year 1793.
Flour. Midting*.
Shipped in July 4qß*s 377
Augvft 321 r6 1 532
September 31686 120
Octobef 3 44
November 6031
December 38274 ICB
Amount 161276 2197 barrels.
Amount flapped in the
fix months preceding
the above, as per re •
turnshcretoforemade 2SS$4$ S 2 S7
Whole amount Ihip^td
in 1793 416621 5454 jMirrel*.
Philadelphia, 3d Januai y 1794.
J A ME* R FAD, ttor.
His Excellency Gov. Miffiiu.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE,
BERLIN, Sept. 28.
Affairs between Prufiia and Poland,
with regard to tlie Provinces which \*T
court lias pofleition of, fceni lo be
come more and more cmbrciLii, 11 to
come to a feriens crilis. Since the ljtfl
post day, fevcra! regiir.cnts in PruCa and
Silcfia, :nd Ekwifc two batt alioi* ot ge
nldicrs in garrison here, have recciv'ci! o>-
dcrs to bold themselves in roiflitia j.o
march at a moment's notice. Ti.is d.-.»
or to-morrow his majeftv will take his de
parture for South Prufiia, through Frank
fort on the Mayne, Erfurt, Ltipaic, a. d
Frankfort on the Oder { after which hjs
majesty will return to this capital.
Last Tuefdny an eftaffette arrived from
the raya! hod quarters at Burwtilcr, near
Landau, brought by a mefieng-T u .tl tin
ted September 19th, to order ihc pvt>> er
relays at the pod-office of Saxony, ano in
the empire. On the laice day the r>
mentsof infantry in th's capital, rid the
regiments of the jvince royal at 1'.y..-
dam, received orders to pre" r_ .>• r . '
equipge, and to p-. jpem-Vlvsi inibctl ■ :
hive been fer.ttoolTier re pcie..i<,«!peei i.lv
to the Prufiian cavalry; s :<d tie whulc fp*'e
ordered for actual fcrvi* cenfifl* oi rp
J battklion* of i .fdMtn-, ai:d 70 ftju.tdror.t
I of cavalry. The return uj a E '- .'at iiwuwill determine their ultimate
definition, which is for PolauJ, unlets
avail's change in tliat country.
The king's retinue is very small, and
confilts only of a iecrttary and a few oth
cers of rank. The roval equipage and
saddle horses have already left Berlin.
The workmen are buiy day and night
to prepare the fie'd equipage.
BRUSSELS, Oa. j
The Dutch army to the amount of
15,000 men, arrived here in three co
lumns, with the Prince of Orange at their
head, the 2d inlt. and encamp
ed ou the heights beyond the gate of An
derli height. It is impossible to conceive
any thing more diflnclined to the cause in
vhicb tiiry are engaged than tliefe troops.
Not merely the private soldiers, but the
officers complain of the service. The
privates fay that they are dcltined to Bou
theric, to the slaughter-house, for it is im
pofiible for them to meet the multitudes
that the Fiench pour forth for liber
ty. The officers are tindfured with the
fame spirit. They alcribe their misfor
tune in their late retreat entirely to the
o.nduCt of Gen. Bcaulieu, who did not
fupjjort them and to Inch a length have
they carried their accusation, that the
liiatrs General have taken it up, and de
manded that Gen. Beaulieu shall be tried
for h:s conduit on the occasion, adding
at the fame time, a figuificant hint, that
u;.lcf» he (hall be brought to trial, they
will not reinforce the army, which they
neverthcl* r .i, mi interim, agree to furnifli,
nor go ..tie Hep further in the concert un
leis their requiiitiun (hall be complied
with.
Last night an officer of the regiment
of La Tour arrived here, with dispatches
from the P. ince of Saxe Cobourg, to the
Hereditary Prince of Orange, dircfting
h.;n to march forthwith towards Mons,
to'T-jth.. with lumc battalions of Aultri
an troops chat arrived iiue lalt uight from
Louva:n. Accordingly, this morning,
the 3d, the Dutch carr.p was raiftd, and
are now 011 their march.
The second attack has been made by
the P. incc of Saxe Cbburg on the en
trenched camp of tlie French at Mau
benge, and with as little ftrcccfs as his firft
attempt. He left nbout 180 men, and
killed, as we believe, about 300 of the
enemy, but without gaining any advan
tage worth the blood.
Gtn. Beaulieu is recalled from his com
mand, and is expected here this day. He
is to be tried by a council of war, before
which he is to account for his conduct on
the cccafion of the flight of the combi
ned armies in Flanders. Hard fate for a
veteran !
jourdan, who succeeds Houchard as Ge
neral of the North, arrived on the lit inft.
in the evening, at the Frencli army, with
a reinforcement of 4000 cavaliy, of which
the republicans were in great want.
LONDON, Oftobcr y.
War-Office, Oft. 2.
His majesty has been pleased to appoint
Colonel, his Royal Highness Prince Ed
ward, to be Major-Geocral in the army.
General Dournonville and the National
CommifiionerS are confined in the fortrefs
of Spielberg, near Brinn, in Moravia, to
which place the two irunilL'rs, Semonville
and Maret, have also been conducted.
RIOTS AT BRISTOL.
BY the accounts just received from
Bnftol, we are informed, that the dread
ful riots which laged to so alarming a de
gree last week in that city, are now en
tirely fublidcd. At the fame time it is
much to be regretted, that so many indi
viduals have fuffered in an affair (refpeft
ingonly a few hundred pounds toll) which
appears trifling when compared with the
importance of the dissolution of one hu
man being. The accounts which have
been reported by various newspapers, and
letters, assert, that near twenty persons
have loft their lives, and about forty
wounded (some dangercufly ) in these me
lancholy commotions.
From the Go/ken Repository.
Mr. Westcott,
I HAVE observed in your lafl paper
our chairman hath publilhed an ac
coun and interesting
meeting lately held in this town ; which I
think was proper and judicious for him to
do ; and in order to induce the Republi
can Citizen* in the neighboring towns and
country, to ele& deputies to reprcfent
them at our next meeting, and give them
f«»me idea of the Uufinefs that will iugrofs
tlieir deliberations so that men of corrtf
ponding fentimeuts may be sent forward.
I tzfee the liberty of incloiing to yoii for
publication in your next paper, a fct of
refolutiong which I intend to bring for
ward at o'i.' next meeting, which are as
follows, viz.
Whereas, the President of the United
States, in his late speech to Congress, hath
intirely (for reafonsbeft known
to himfclf) to mention the long, (liameful,
and daring detention of the forts on our
western frontiers, by one of the combined
tyrants of Europe,
Therefore resolved, that proper mea
sures ought to be taken to humble the
pride of the Britilh nation, and teach them
a sense of their duty by immediately re
quiring those polls to be given up as well
as restitution to be made fur their illegal
depredations and captures of our vefielß
on the high seas, or else they may ex pec v
to feel the weight of our hottelt difplea.
sure.
And whereas, (he important waters of
the river Walkill, run through this town,
which has communication with the At
lantic Ocean :
Therefore resolved, that where the said
river is navigable, suitable armed cutters
be built (as soon as our exports will admit)
for the preservation of our eel wares, (from
which are derived our principal exports
and ftap'.e produce) and where the river
is not navigable, that proper places of de
fence be built oil the shores for the pur
pose above-mentioned, and thus agreeably
to the Preiident's speech "be placing
oiirfelves in a condition of compleat de
fence." And in order to convince the
combined despots of Europe that we dis
approve of their tyrannical system, that
we are Rcvolutionifts, and avow the prin
ciples of Republicans and supporters of
the Rights of Man and the cause of France,
Therefore resolved, we have a deiire to
bccome the eighty fifth fe&ion of France,
at leail as much so as is consistent with the
alegiance we owe the Republican form
only, of the government we live under.
A Montgomery Sans Culottes,
Montgomery, Dec. 20th, 1793.
From the WESTERN STAR.
[Pubiiihvcl -it Stockoridjjc, MalTachufetts.J
A Correspondent wishes to inquire the
reason affigntd by the Lieutenant Gover
nor of this Commonwealth for his silence
on the late impudent Protest against the
proceedings of the Executive of the United
States, by Citizen Dannery. The com
munication of the C' J 'zen's performance,
to him, has been made public, not only in
this state, but throughout the Union.—
Silent contempt of Citizen Dannery's
conduct (continues our correspondent) is
not fufficient—the incited dignity of
Americans, at this period, when foreigners
are boldly attempting to controul the
measures of our Government, requires
something more. Can the Lieutenant
Governor poflibly be influenced by elec
tioneering motives, and, by remaining neu
ter, promise himfelf a general support ?—
Surely no ! this cannot be the influencing
principle, with fucli an object in view.
The great majority of the people of this
commonwealth are fedeialiils and they
look forfederalifm in their public servants ;
their attention, it is hoped, will ever be
directed towards those who have wisdom
to plan, and firmnefs to execute. In the
flickered situations of life, an equivocal
conduct may sometimes be available in the
promotion of an hoped for object—but on
that theatre where the public eye can ful
ly survey the actions and the dearest inter
ests of society impel men to ken the mo
tives of those acting under their authori
ty. open integrity, and a decided conduct,
are the surest means to obtain the confi
dence, and rivet the attachment, of a free
and enlightened people.
HONORIUS.
From the American Minerva,
7'o the honorable Legislature of the United
States, ,
The Petition of the antient Partici-
ple STRICKEN,
Mojl humify Jheiueth,
THAT your petitioner was formerly
a [errant of the Englirti nation, during a
long course of time, apd in his (lalion de
meaned himfelf with fobrietv, and great
fidelity. For several hundred years your
petitioner was never accused with having
Jlriehtn a fellow servant or of any crime
winterer. But your petitioner, growing
61J and well Jirkktn in years, was dlfcard
ed as an inurm, worn-cut domestic, whose
ugly afpeet disgusted all good company ;
and for tlie many good services rendered
the nation, your petitioner had a place as
signed him by common consent of the na
tion, in one corner of a majejiic building
which was new covered andjhingled with
Engli/b wood, in the reign of James I.*.
In this venerable place, your petitioner
has ever since spent his time, afibciating
and convening with a few old friends,who
oecajionally visit this antiquated jlruilure.—
Your petitioner, happy in his retirement,
is very unwilling to be summoned from hii
tranquil abode, and again called into ser
vice ; especially as his place is well suppli
ed with a more convenient fen-ant, the
participle Jlrucl, who is better acquainted
with the modern fafhions and mhnners,and
can much better wait upon company than
your old, grey haired petitioner. Your
petitioner therefore humbly prays, that he
may no more be called upon to wait upon
gentlemen, but that he may be Jlruci off
the lift of your honors' domestics, and fuf
fered to reft in peace in his venerable man
sion.
(Signed,)
STRICKEN.
* The Bible traijlatcdinto En«lijb,
The following is the report of the Select
Committee oh the Petition of Andrew
Fraunces
The committee of the House of Repre
sentatives of the United States, confiding
of Messrs. S. Smith, Giles, Findley, Cof
fin, and Dayton, presented the following
to the House, on the 29th ult.
The committee, to whom was referred
the memorial of Andrew G. Frauncis,
with the accompanying papers, have pro
ceeded to take the fame into considerati
on, and to examine the late Treasurer, and
several officers and clerks of the present
department, refpe&ing thef ame; and, as
the result of their inquiries, make the sol.
lowing report:
That about the month of May last, the
Memorialist became pofleffed of two war
rants, drawn by the late Board of Trea
fnry; the one for 3.500 dollars, the other
for 2,000 dollars : That in copfequence
of an estimate for appropriations for the
year 1789, certified by the Register of
the Treafurv, an appropriation of 190,000
dollars was made for paying Warrants of
the description of those in pofleffion of the
memorialilt: That these warrants were
not, however, particularized in the esti
mate : That payments of fur.dry warrants,
of the fame description, were made, pur
suant to the appropriation, from Nov.
1789, to Nov. 1790, amounting, in the
whole, to 157,630 dollars 94. cc»ts ; after
which time, only two small warrants, a
mounting to 183 dollars 33 cents, have
been paid ; which warrants appeared to
the officers of the Treasury not to have
been of doubtful character: That no other
warrants of the fame description were pre
fentedfor payment, at the Treasury, un
til the autumn of 1792 ; about which time
several were presented : That some time
after November, 1790, in the course of
examining the proceedings of the late
Board of Treasury, and the modes of doing
business practised by them, together with
some other circumstances falling within
the knowledge of the accompting officers
of the Treasury, doubts were entertained
at the Treasury how far these warrants,
and pthers of the fame description, consti
tuted a good claim again ft the public ; and
in consequence of the information, thus
obtained, payments thereof were, from
that time, suspended. The committee
have thought it expedient not to detail the
particular circumftanccs attending this de
scription of warrants, which caused the
determination of the Treasury officer to
suspend payment, and refer the House to
certain documents attending this report,
for fall information relative thereto. It
appears, that the warrants presented br the
memorialists, for payment, had been pre
vioufiy presented for payment at the Trea
sury, by some other person, and that pay
ment had been refufed, but the presentation
acknowledged in the following words,
written in red ink, on one of the warrants,
" Presented to the Secretary of the Trea
sury, on the 26th of December, 1792, by
Jasper Mardock." It appeats that the
Secretary of the Treasury refufed to pay
the warrants to the memorialists, who
presented them for that purpofc, in the
month of May last ; and that he has been
uniform in his refufal from that time to
the present. The committee art of opinion
that the reasons afligned by the Secretary
of the Treasury, for refilling payment of
the warrants, are fully fnflicient to juftify
his condutt ; and that the Secretary of the
Treasury, and other officers of theTrca
fury, merit applaufr for their conduit in.
the whole courie of this tranfa&ion.
At the request of the Secretary of the
Treasury, the committee have likewjfe
proceeded to examine the charge made a
gainst him, relative to the purchase of the
pension of Baron de Glaubach, and are of
opinion that it is wholly illiberal & ground
less.
UNITED STATES.
NEW-YORK, January 6.
Arrived here yesterday, the biigantini
Sarah and Elizabeth, Edm. Luce, matter,
from Nantz, which place (he failed from
the 22d Ottobej Capt. Luce informs us,
that 011 the day after he failed, he was
brought too and boarded by an Algerine
cruizer from Guemfy, and altho' he had
no French goods, nor any French paflcn
gers 011 board, was detained seven hours,
wantonly insulted, and plundered of water,
cabin (tores and a number of valuable ar-
titles.
(The English, as a nation, particular
ly in their marine, pique themfetves much
on their honor ; and no doubt the officers
of King's (hips have every pretension to
it—but their fuffering part of the nation
to ast as a nest of pirates, mult be laid
to their charge, and taken into the ac
count. By this conduct they are laying
up a (lore of wrath in the minds of our
seamen, which should a rupture betwixt
us unhappily take place, may be produc
tive of bitter oonfequencee.)
On the 2jth Oft. he fa* a small squa
dron of French (hips of war cruizing oiT
Ufhant. One of them, the Semilliante,
boarded him, but did no more than exa
mine his papers. The French officer in
formed Capt. Luce, that they had taken
4 G.iernfey privateers, or rather pirates,
and one English frigate. Tiie lat.tei; had
hnd a severe engagement with a French
frigate, from which (he separated in rhe
night, and the day following fell in with
this squadron, and after firing a few shot
flruck her colours, being quite crippled
in her engagement with the other frigate.
On the sth Not. spoke the fhfp Anne
and Catherine of New York, in lat. 41,
long. 14, bound home from Bristol with
a number of pafTengers. She was 14 days
out all well.
On the 2 sth Dec. he spoke the Schr.
Nancy of New York, in lat. 35, long.
68, four days out, bound to St. Bartho
lomews.
On Sunday the 30th, fpofee the (loop
Garland, Capt. Garland, from New Cat
tle, to Martinique, in lat. 33, long. 69,
3 days out. Capt. Garland generously
fparcd part of his provisions to Captain
Luce, of which he began to feel the
want.
On Friday the 3d inft. spoke a (loop be
longing to Newport, bound from Point
Peter, to Alexandria in long. 74, lat. 36
30, thirty days out.
The Sarah and Elizabeth was bound to
Baltimore, but obliged by contrary winds
to put into this port.
Yesterday a sloop outward bound, with
a number of French paflenp-ers, men, wo.
men and children, wa3 overset in the East
River, opposite Gorernor's I (land, by run
ning against another veflitl, and a negro
boy drowned.
FAYETTEVILLE, Dec. 18.
The committee from both house* of the
Icgiflatu'.-e appointed to make enquiry into
a report that, a contagious fever was ra
ging in this town, (as mentioned in our
extract t'om the journal of the house of
Commoni) have reported, that they have
made enquiry refpetting the health of the
place agreeable to the resolves of both
houses, and find there is no ground for the
report of such a fever, or any infej3iou»
disease prevailing in this town.
AUGUSTA, Nov. 23.
DIED] On Monday last, at her plan
tation in Burke county, Mrs. Mart
Hall, relist of the late Hon. Lvman
Hall, Esq.
On Thurfdty last, On), Jamis
Williams, attorney at law.PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 9.
This day the Comptroller-General of the Com
monwealth of PennCyivania, having been pre\i
oufly notified by the Serjeant at Arms, attend, d
in the Hall of the Senate—when the Clerk of that
honorable body read to him ihe articles of im
peachment preferred against him, by the Houfc
of Rcprefcutarivn—the Comptroller requeued a
copy of the articles,& time to beallowed to make
his reply—a copy was ordeied to be delivered,
and Wednesday next ailigoed for him to give 111
his answer.
At an elefHon of officers of the Pennsylva
nia Population Company, the Bth inft.
The following gentlemen were caofen :
President—John Nicholfon.
Managers—Robert Morris, Aaron
Burr, Dr. James Wilson, Walter Stewart,
Theophilus Cazenove, Dr. Wm. Smith.
Treasurer—Tench Francis.
Carpenters Hall, in the Court of the U
nited States Bank, Jan. 6,
At a meeting of the Society for the Re
lief of poor diftrefi'ed Masters of (hips, their
widows and children, it being their annual
election to chufe Managers and a Treasur
er, the following Members were chosen :
Managers—William Heyfham, Natha
niel Falconer, Sampson Harvey, George
Ovd, Robert Bethell, John Woods, Charles
Biddle, William Allibone, John Souder,
John Lockton, Stephen Gerard, Natha
niel Gall.
Treasurer—James King,
Ext raft of a letter from Albany, dated
December 3
" We have been repeatedly alarmed by
the cry of fire for these two months past.
Thefa perfor.s who caused the late great
and diflrcfling fire, are to be tried on the
2d January next: They are two negro
wenches, one 12 and the other 14 years
eld, and a tiegroe fellow, who has, since
his infancy, been a perpetual pest to the
city, and who it is expefled will at length
meet his deserts—the gallows."
The Directors of the manufacturing
Society of the State of New-Jerky, have
published tile fchemc of a Lottery for raif
inj' thcfumof 39,000 dollars on 266,000
dollars, deluding ij per Cent, from the
prizes. This Lottery consists of 38,000
Tickets In winch there are 14,539 prizes,
and 23,461 blanks—being about one and
an half blanks to a prize—Tickets at 7
dollars each—The high prizes are, one of
10,000 —one of 10,000, Two of 5,000 —
five of 2,000 —Ten of 1000, and Twenty
of joo dollars.
EXTRACT,
Pirom the simet lean Daily Advertlfer.
1. Is not corruption efientially interwo
ven in the dramatic compositions exhibited
on the ftagc?
2. Must not the taste of the majority of
light and difiipated minds be consulted, in
order to afford fnfficient allurementy to
fucfa, to frequent the pernicious amuse
ment ? ,
3. Have the players in general, been
considered as models of virtue ?
4. Hive not houses of lewd resort been
continually multiplied around Theatres in
every city ?
5. If these things be so, is not a public
Theatre a public nuisance ?
6. If this be the cafe, have the propri
etors of the Theatres here a right to hold
them as lawful property ?
7. Did any law authorise the ere&ion
of these buildings, or rather is there not a
law unrepealed which infli&s a fine of 2001.
for such condu& ?
8. Were not the Directors and work
men liable to fines for working at the
New Theatre on the Lord's day.
9. Has the Corporation of London
ever permitted a Theatre within the city i
10. Did the Romans permit a (landing
Theatre in the virtuous ages of the Re
public ; or was not Pompey the Great,the
firft who had influence enough to procure
it in the very dotage of Republicanism at
Rome ?
Whoerer will treat those quefb'ons in
a fcient:fic or philosophical manner, will
be refpe&fully attended to by the friends
to virtue, and the foes to the Theatre in
this city or its vicinity.
si writer in a morning paper proposes—
" opening the Theatre, wiih a benefit for the
f t 'orn childern that were deprived of their
/ arents by the yellow fever ; were this to be
done, and thefucner tj>e better Jays he, 'he bouse
would not fdtl of a lumper, in defp'ight of
the formidable anathemas that have been de
nounced by the contracted fpirtis of the evt
miet to this elegant as well as edifying fpcc 'ies
of entertainment.
brum ihe General Advert'ifer.
The November packet is arrived at
Halifax, and has let fail for England
again. One important piece of intelli
gence brought by this vessel, which iiears
the stamp of probability, and has not
yet been communicated to the American
public is, that a peace has been proposed
by the cabinet of St. James's, who feared
a Revolution of the People, a defccnt
from France, a National bankruptcy and
the effect of the defection of Prussia and
the United Netherlands.
This peace is to be fettled upon the ba
sis of the ancient relations between France
and England ; but the United States are
to be lelt without countenance from either
party, no new advantage is to be granted
to her commerce, and her means of ag
grandizement are not to be ailifted.
To give success to this negociation, the
court of London has communicated con
fidentially to the Executive Council, an
exact account of the tame conduct of the
American government towards France,
during the war. This communication
has not had all the effect the English Mi
nistry intended it to produce, to the dis
advantage of the American interest and
character: France will never forget her
elder fitter Republic, the country where
Liberty had her birth j but the delusion
of People too frank and open to refill the
insidious designs of her secret enemies
ought to be no more, and it is time they
should shrink from the precipice on the
brink of which they stand.
In the courfc of the Summer the Pub
lic were amused with articles of News
mar.ufaSztrcd at New-York—the mint is
now removed to the Seat of Government
—the Coin turned out then, proved base—
time will try the qualities of that juit
minted.
fROM A CORRESPONDENT.
It is apparent that we are governed by
mere habit in many things that seem to de
pend on the fobereit reason. An ast to
reg;ilate prices would be deemed a piece
of fofly in the extreme. Every man has
at his tongue's end, let articles regulate
prices for themselves—and he is ready to
think he maintains a general principle
which good sense and experience have put
their seal to. Tell the fame man, that he
is in the right, ami J hat by the fame just
principle the Bakers oi'ght not to be res
! trifled in the aflize of bread, nor the mo
ney lenders in the rate of interest, and
that bread and money ought to have the
market price, leave them free a.nd they re
gulate themselves better and mo.'c justly
than you can c'o it by law : It is
luck if the advocate for a non-regulat-'on
of prices will hear you advance half
much as has been suggested in support of
Ims own doctrine, when it is to be applied
to the articles of bread and money. It is
ten to one he will interrupt you to ex
claim, Sir, you would overturn society
you are for starving the poor by making
bread so dear that they cannot procure it;
you are fattening usurers, those vipers and
drones in society. After listening to this
reply, which is certainly unanswerable, I
would advise him to walk off as fact as he
can, left a mob fhonld gather and pelt him
as a monster, who would have the poor
bread eaters and money borrowers made
into minced pies for the Bakers and Ufu-
EXTRACT.
" ? ou tell mr, our mutual friend it a
warm democrat, this I Jbould have hoped
and expected to hear, but as to his being buri
ed in I'rench politicks, if French politicls
are thefimcin ih: Ur.itcd States, as in France
and in the French IJlands by report, I pity
him, because they can mean no more nor less
than the French Mania ; but this I cannot be
lieve has f my oldfriend; he has too
much good sense, and discernment, not to fee
and feel the difference between rational demo
cracy, end wild ungovernable enthujiafm—
between virtue and vice—Tou fay our Go
vernment is good, aud that our cit'nens are
happy, they will continue fa no longer than a
virtuous democracy preserves itsjujl weight
and influence in the Government. It fems
as if there had been endeavours to sap this
main pillar of our conjlitution ; may Heaven
frujlrate alt fitch sacrilegious attempts ; at
the Jjrtu t:.»e r would carefully uiurd a
ogainft the 'mjec.iun uj prejent French po.'i
tk Is, or French madnfs —Tet lam plecifed
that the plundered and ifijirefied of that r.a--
tion ha ve found an afylutn and relief in our
country, aud the more, as the habitable globe
bejide is Jhut againfl them
CONGRESS
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES
Thursday Jan. 9th. 1794.
A petition of a number of Germans fet
tled in the State of Virginia, was read,
praying that a fufficient number of the
Laws of the United States, maybe prin
ted in th; German language—laid on the
table,
Mr. Dearborn laid a motion on the ta
ble, whidh was fecoiided by Mr. Coffin,
that a Committee be appointed to report
on the expediency of erecting a lighthouse
on the island of Seguin in the mouth of
Kennebeek river, in thediftrift of Maine.
The petition of Thomas Kincaid
was read, praying compensation for the
military services of a man who had elop
ed from his employ ; referred to the sec
retary of war.
A meflage from the fenatc by Mr. Otis
informed the house, that they have ap
pointed a committee of enrolment on their
part.
Mr. P. Muhlenberg of the committee
on enrolled bills, reported the bill entitled
" an ast making an alteration in the flag
of the United States," as truly enrolled.
The Speaker fig ned the fame.
Mr. Harrifon presented the petition cf
Lucy Clark, praying cbmpenfition for ser
vices performed by her husband as an offi
cer of artificers during the late war, read
and referred to a feleft committee.
On motion of Mr. Watts, the house.
took into confederation the report of the
feleft committee to which was referred rhe
report of the secretary of the tieafury on
the petition of Comfort Sands and others.
The report was read by the clerk, and re
ferred to the committee of the whole house
and made the order of the day for this
day fortnight.
The house proceeded to consider the
amendment agreed to by the committee
of the whole, to the bill for compleating
better supporting the military efta
blilhroent of the United States.
This amendment was, the clause pro
posed bv Mr. J. Wadfworth, making a
provision of half pay, for the widows and
orphans of the office: s and soldiers—and
was disagreed to, by the house—-this vote
left the bill as it was originally brought in.
Mr. Beatty, after offering fume remarks
on the inadequacy of the present compen
sation to the foldicry, and expressing his
wish, that it should be made at leait equal
to the price of labor; moved the follow
ing in fubfiance, That a feftion should be
added to the bill—which should provide
for a monthly additional allowance, t« be
reserved for, and paid to the non-coir.mis
sioned officers and privates, who (hall here
after enlill and continue in the service du
ring the term of their enlistment, to be
j. aid to them, or to their legal reprefenta
tifces.
J. Wadfworth moved to amend
the motion by inserting the word, officers,
before the word " non commiflioned offi
cers."—twnic objections being offered to
thr» amendCient, it was witlidrawn.
G\i motio.'i it was then voted that the
bill with the a/nendments, be referred to
a feleft commiti -e to consist of five mem
bers.
['to be continued.}
Faction and sedition tlifgrace a free no
tion, fays the Boston Cent;ael. The In
dependent Chronicle takes fire at this
unprovoked insult, ;ind exclaims in a rage,
disgraceful fenti.nentl
According to the vChronicle therefore,
the proper and creditable sentiment i;,
that Faction and Sedition do not dif
gracc a free nation.
This day it piilli/,\'d,
By MATHEW CAREY,
N". iiB.MA»KI T-»T ir»v
(Price a quarter dollar)
A fliort account of ALGIER'.S,
Con-aining a defr nptinti ol the climate of iho t
coumry- of ihe manners and cuftomt of thr in
hahiiar.lt, and of :hetr r everal wits against S'-ain,
France, FnqlanA, Holland, ,Venicr, and ether
power* of t'.uiopc, »?om the ti<uroatr.n nf B*r
baroffj and tl»e •nval'mn of the Emperor Ch rle»
V. lo ihe present time; with a view ol
ihcoiigin of the runtu»e between ALGIERS
and ihe UNITED STATES.
J' n - 9-
Important Intelligence.
Extrnfl of a teller front a genlrm.w in
l*o**/on to his friend in ibis City, dated
24th of Odober 1793.
" Citizen and Fkienh,
" The French have retaken that very
important City, Lyons ; which given
them poflVffien of the river Rhone, which
enable* them to transport their armies 300
miles by water. The National Ccmen
tion has since from policy, pafl'ed sundry
decrees refpe fling. Lyons, which arc us ful
luws—Tile town (hall be destroyed, and
the name of Lyons {hall be effaced from
the lifts of the towns of the Republic—
The property of the rich inhabitants fliail
be confifcated for the benefit of the Re
public—And, upon its rnins {hall be rai
sed a column, to a:t;ft to ppfterity, the
crimes and puniftiment of the Royalists
of that City, with this infeription :—
" Ltons viarred againjt LinißTi —
" T.tons—is no more.
" The eighteenth Day of the firji Month,
" Second Tear of the RepuLUc,
" One and Indivifil/le."
" The French in Flanders have obliged
the Combined Annies under the colnmand
of Prince Cobourg and Gen. Clairiait to
raise the siege of Maubeuge, and recrufs
the river Sambre. The army under Co
bourg was about 80,000 men, of winch
it is laid he only loft 3000 men in his re
treat : the number of Clairfait's army is
not exaftlv known, but it is said, between
30 and 40,c00 men, of winch he lofl a
much more confiderablc number tlian Co
bourg—This retreat is thought to be a
greater disadvantage to the combined ar
mies than theirs' from Dunkirk. But the
French in consequence of -withdrawing a
number of their bed men from the at my
against the King of Pi uffia, to allirt Mau
beuge, lave had the lives of WeilTemberg
forced, and loft 30 pieces of cannon; but
the situation of the country is such, that it
is thought the armies must withdraw
thcmfelves in winter.
" The National Convention have puf
fed sundry decrees against England alone,
in consequence it is said of the Engiilh
who took Toulon, putting to death B-au
ras Precieu thereprifentativt o. the;
who was in the town when it furrendercd,
they are about to the following purport ;
All the fnbjefis of the King of Gre:.t
Britain (children excepted) (hall be im
mediately (the Cth init.) arretted, a:.d
seals put upon their papers, and the p:<i«
pertyof those fub;e£ts of Great Britain,
who are absent fliall be seized and CGtirli
cated for the benefit of the Republic.
" It is with regret that 1 have to fay, the
Queen of France is no more, (he futftrcd
under the axe of the Guillotine on Wed
nesday the 16th inlt. after having been
condemned on the preceding day by the
Revolutionary Tribunal, as guilty of hav
ing been acceflary to, and having co ope
rated against the Liberties of France."
(Tj* The observation afciibcd to Afr.
S. Smith, iq the /ke'ch of the Debate « n
the bill making alterations in the flag of
the United States, the 7th inft?.nt—-we.
are informed was not made by that gen
tleman.
Infuranee Company,
Philadelphia, January 6, *.794.
is hereby g ven 10 tie »ne;ulK-ni
1\ of the Infuranee Company of North
America, that the D.rectors have tied-ml a
dividend (for th; last fix month-.) of six per
cent, on the amount ot the firft nr d fecoud
inllalments ; and of one per cenr p?r mont'j
on the sums paid In anticipation of rhe third
iiftalment, calculating from the firft dav "f
the month following that, in wh c i ih fc pay
ments were mad?. The dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders, or their rcprefentat vt-%
at the company's ofHcr, No. 119 foi.tn Fron:-
ftrect, at any time after the 13th inllant
By order of the Dircclois.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Secretary.
J*"- 9 w&fim.
Treasury Department,
NOTICE is hereby (liven, that propofalk %»ii2
be received at the Office of the Sccicury
ni the Treafur>, until the 6 ho! F hruary oca*
inettifive, for the supply oi' all Rati->*t w! ich
may be <rquired duim« the piefem )i*r, *t he
fovrral places of lendrjvoin hereafter mcntiau
ert, lor the Recio»t»ng Service, vit.
At New-Biunfwirk, io Hew-Jet fry ,
Ar Philad lphia, )
At Lancaster, > in Pennfylvama.
At Reading, )
The rations to be furnifhed are (oconfift a! i' r
following articles, *17,
Otic p<>und nf bread m flour,
One jxund of beef, or |of » and of p«ik.
v >lf • jill of rum, brandy or whiiky,
C.Ni'* quail of fait }
I quart* of vinegar f
Iw - po-md, o4 soar £ ? cr ,oc
On. ; nd 9! mndlea)
J." VTO THE PUBLIC.
ti.. -jppn'tif <1 I'V
"VI! n ■ tmipv c
i --'CI IV f
I M\ si : I
M\U W M lUIOI N i!
o,.ii ihe <)!>•"«.*
\~, i,,, n] ,! -ins " inlili'H till I Uii'liiMr
t ,|„ l„ o' It " f.' oo.j »i>• 111
Ir.rrly Kiv< tfui'tlili'd, uk. lii< .ibeiiy lo
I'll., I, jl'hou.h Ou- f.lioolj »r>r !..!,•< t.rt.d
rlui l lllh- •.II a"I lb- :i '■ »•;:«! 1 ' "V
v\ r!i w !»'<' n f 'in nti ■ .tni"! I til -ui !.* i > in i:i -
I" c..i, ' ll > v ■'
u or i». 11 co
| i. :.r- i.< i.-- ili; \ and na! >i>s '■-> 1
o| uu «.• '■ h'.ol. iiv -:»f i«- -i f'. f -m '
cii'-u-nU.v.T ' fl ' s "'s I fl 3
„„ :r i <> O. t-h-.PS d-I*'t is' c n» •tit- I"
o. • du. rf i"H. vvii.u ihc hand o! bt i• cv• • ciivc
nuv »■' n.'iiitK i
I !i<ii
.i n <-i ' x ;>f irncc hs»«, most p!
lie It h'»p -S '.t li.L 1' '< ">'•> •>' '■ *
Ml}*! U wil'l .1 -•) Wlf -f. •
Va.iC'.'lHi Ml M 'Mr rtli l .llM'i 'A'ho h J-- X!v ll'i
w, (1 n.)J. r S r .r, , n 'hi' h'-Iki U •>
, [,-> 'if id ci. K .
it.irfl, ooblilhtd in the nrwfpapeu of th;s
i r,-' .i-.j i (r. v V -Mr n"1 i>.m i. I- v. x b<xi
■ i.<kc uci ; n- b- r. ?(s .» idrd i«v the
H,, i a'-r,. , i!:„c honr« ••• -I'*' twini* .no . ',ni
tli-n tr-civ.i.g induction then
I, u v. s- <>..'* iftniiiis t o he i 1 u ■
t h:it t> '• 'til-.!'. I.' I hi- r.ric-IV a:f -a IV Mi .b-
ic» cany on their benevolent defiant,
r'>n"". , - i 'd n :o ib-nou
I!'. - ,iv p' • .'2'. i<•> r: n to lli-'i '<•' sv-ou •? ' r.S toi
t l, t «. fli t> .<• i" '»wr ol ('ifiV (Vlvv'ils, in iff 4 . Cl
iii, i' nv -V be iiO in'' up i'>u I *■'>in t '>tti
~j ij-,, icit.m.H.k th< n m in '.chal! «'t 'h< ir
u:...'0 I 11 niri _
'Trie •. ':c •> iii n.w '■ f 1 ""' <J' V t'l
- J !<• I*') J'• n' !T. tlt A'\t < tt.lbMb>Ulli:, <*b
c! 11:o 1 iup > i "f" 1 s aiiri pt: -
v i'c tfu'-d. l'i" annuel ftiMV ( ii>P'>n tor ,i mem
u I >.t IH ; (;nc I)<'sU- ; .-nd ■' »» pc'i.tm d f har
In f n i; a Vi-ti 'Hr annum cannot be » ritl-
01, bv tholV wl-o r,m i', by
>w ' • t -r.r p- '-«■ "I (\ ii-.Tu)! 1 . ol u'eliil
K M.. v ; ' J .r ePVI.' \b' !>•''• d'lii 11 .c iJtHt l\.
S.ilnrMr'T-Ui"! <' "« crat-.lvllv
'tic cil I■ v it" : njir.cc i-inunu.ee on 1k-
hrft' ihc \)
I'l
J . 'lun,
P. :( rT V »▼*l-' MV
'I .V, L l:„> P. l'l>pC,
| m,,,
| P-. Mlnf:',
I i'T
p .ir,
H i
V' 1 Inns*,
J "lin IV'
']. liu M'C-rf,
Kobe t K 'Ift -n,
•• 1 irat.
\ . Tilconer,
(
S-■i> u' i S i". '.m 11."" j
Per r tiji :>cr.
advertised
FOR the ««f t' '!<• w
c ! k ;t.:tv ru't i " or;-r f " --c-
tlrat thfe United Star**, hytl-.eirAft ofthe 12tri
of February 1793, ordered t"vrr all Claims of
the defcriptifo : herein 'mentioned, and whrdh
originated pievir,us f.» ti.e 4th of March 1789:
be presented a* the Treasury or or It fore the
firft clay of May 17V4, othe'rwife they will
so o ve r thereafter, be barred, and extlti
-44 ded from fettlemerit or rfllow ai.ee." And
?.s there may l>e feve'al Creditor® of the Uni
ted Stare*, holding; Certificates «>i other Se
curities, which form a past of the Domcftic
Deb:. and who with to fubferibe to the Loan,
tiey are reminded that the term for receiving
ftibfcription* at the Treasury, is by the Ast of
tic United States, palled the fecoi dof March
"last, extend dto the last day of Jure, 1794.
The following is an extaft from the Act of
Limitation above referred to :
Skction I. "Be it enacted by the Senate
and Hou r e of ReprcfeotatUes « f the United
Stares of America, in Conp.refs aftenibled-—
That all claims noon the Unit'd States, for
Services or Supplies, or for or\er cause, mat
ter or thing, formfeed or done, previous to
the 4th dav of March 1789. whether founded
upon Certificates, or other written documents
si -m Public Officers 01 othei wi e. which have
not already been barred by any Ast of Limi
tati », and which fliall not be pre'cr.tcd at
the T eafury before the fi'ft day of May 1794,
<hxi| for -rei after be burred and prefenbed
from Settlement or allowance : Provided,
th*t nothing .herein contained, (hall be con-
It M-' l to "♦F.-ft Loan-Office Certificates, Cer
tifitatei o! fiual Settlements, Indents of In
tereflf, Balances entered in the booVs of the
remitter oft e treasury commonly called regif
tered certificates,loans of monies obtained in
foreign countries, or certificates iflTued pu''u
ant to the Ast, intitled 44 An Ast, making pro
vision for the Debt of the United States.
To be Sold,
at p p n a t e s a l f,
A Valuable Lot of 16
Ac»e» of LAND, lying on the greal road lead
ing fioin P»iii4C««»n roTtcntnn, 1 £ miles from
Pnnceton ; wnh atan-vard, hark-hMife, beam
houfe and « urrying-fHop, a nevir tailing ftuam
of water running through ihe Time; a good
with an entry and two 10011.3
on the lowei fl'»or, and three «n rhe upper floor;
a kiiehcn adjoining, wnh a Cellar under the
whole, and a well of water at the door; also,
170 bearing apple-trees, and two or three acre*
of watered modow. There will be an indif.
putable title given- Any pcilon inclining f 0
pur chafe, mjy know the term* of Ule by #p.
plying to the Subscriber on the rnemifei.
MATTHEW CLARVe,
Sepiembcr 14, 1793. ( r *T4")
Encyclopedia,
JUST PUBLISHED,
Bv THOMAS DOBSON,
the IVSTITI
HUM-PAY
<•! i'
Book teller, at the Stone Houft, in Second
firetft Philadelphia.
i, I• 1 h.
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Of A rs, fe'tences, and V.ilie.lanecuJ
Literature, on a Plan entirety new j
The Different Scie.ic
THIS volume contains principlesol Levels,
L berty, D >strine of Li&litninj?,
Locks, Logarithm Logic, Riftorv Ol Lon
don, Longitude. Luthc, Lvd'u, Macedon,
Mmiajtufcar, Mafcnetiffn* Malts, Hif
turjr of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
VI ifoiiry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
M fcellaneous articles, illutlrated with 1
ty two Copperplates,
A. a number ot fatailief nre (till in the
country, and it it not generally known who
a^err'urned. T. D>bl'on, solicits the favor
»♦* t"le fubferibers to cajl or fend lor their vo
uinet, that tliey rndy be fuppliid as early as
>o'!ible.
u»e public ; tut as it ip*kcs
Us appearance in an imperfect (late, some ac
count of the reason of that impei fe&ion should
he Riven.' On the 81F1 of September last, the
Pub!iflier had the misfortune oi having his
Printing-Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of hi', printing materials deflroyed,
and aiiiong other articles, the figures, with
which he was printing the tables of lo
garithms, belonging to the prefeiit volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
A< a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, lie was under the necetfity of pub
lifliing the volume without the e tables; but
hopes he (half be Able to pub!i(h them with the
next volume which is now in considerable lor-
if w v u-.. t'
warditefs.
The Publilber embraces this opportunity of
txpretfing his grateful acknowledgments t«
the ftenerous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at tire fame time be takes the li
berty of leprefenting to such of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necessity of
punftuaHty, bbtli in taking up the volumes as
early as poiirble after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the inb
fcribers having G,ot only one, two, three, fcc.
T«'u
volumes, and fevei&l volnutcs remain unpaid*
Thus the work haMgs in '<*11 it's different sages
from the cortni»en«em«ut; and though the im
pnrfarlce „r t> few dollars may be hut a trifle
to the ind'tfidiVris vet accum'ntMlo* of
these frifjes .*ID Uv« ilit Publiiher under
vcrv (iriom er.barmfl'me'it, and deprives htm
.if she ufr of many Tliosfaredj of Dollars which
Jan. i
,i E N T,
rn.vvbe con
at this iit*ie would he C»f very eflbntial fervke.
For these reaf»ns the VuWilTier finds himfelt
under the necefiity of recurring to the original
tertws of iMiolica 1 .«>», and in future no
lutnes " lli be delivered but on!v to thofie who
take and pay tti the time of publication.
December id.
Ntw-|tr. stv, ) T)Y virtue of * Writ to me
Suflcx Cofejoiy. (T. ) 13 dirrfted, issued out of
the Higb Court ol Chancery of New-Jersey, at
the full of William Shipley againfl John Ming
and others; I Avail expose to (ale at Public Ven
due, omhe sixth day ol February next, between
the hours <if Twelve and Five in the Afternoon
of the fame day, on the Premifej, the following
defenbed Trail of Land, with its appui tenancec,
situate in the Townfoip of Oxford and Count' y
of Suflex, beginning at a Chefnut Oak. Tree, c or
ner of Danifl C'«x's land, and fhnding iu the
line of a former fnivry made to Thomas S' tVen
fon, being marked with the letter B. an<* thonre
extending along Coxt'g line foul)", fifty de
grees weft fifty-five chains and fevemv .five linitt
to * Black O.ik Tieecomcr ol Jofcr'h Shipprn's
land (fecrnrl) sou h nine degrees a'ad fifteen mi
nutes, wrft nmei\ chains and fl/.ty fivfc l.irks U>
a forked White Oak Tree, ma* ked will* the leu
Icir f and B another of th t'jin Ship pen's cor
tiers (third) thincc north ei/' ,cy degtyes, eafl one
hunched and forty-five c)* his, to / post on the
southerly fide of Paquar.llfe.River, bring also a
corner of John Reading's land (louith) thence
north degiees v, eft, one hundred
and thirty-two ch* ns to the place of beginning,
containing nine hundred thirty acres with
the usual alivwancc for rrads and high ways —
The fame Premises are v/uhin eight roiles of the
Rivrr Delaware, and th tie is thereon a conveni
ent Gvift Mill wi:h tw t pair of Stones—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fuffceient ilream of
*ater (or their uf< —a Dwelling Houfc, Store
House, and fcvrral {mail bui'dings.
IS hereb*/ given, to the Members of the
iN'ditf nce Company at North-America,
That thflf third Instalment, being Two Dollars
on '/ach share of tl«- Stock, is to be paid, a-
R'.eeably to the Conllitntion, on the second
Monday [the 13th day] of January next: And
a Central Meeting of the Stockhclder* is to lie
lie Id on the succeeding day, for the purpose of
choosing Fifteen Direflars, examining into the
Situation of the Company's Affairs, and ma
king such additional Rules and Regulations
as they (hall judge neceflarv.
Vol. X.
VOLUME X. OF
sr irHicn
and Arts,
arc digcflcd into the form of
Diitinft Treaties or Sy items :
t lsth yolvms of the Encyclopedia is
ADVERTISEMENT
MMIK THOM PSON, Sheriff.
Dated *2tl «juy of July, 1793.
N O TICK
EBENEZER HAZARD, Serratary.
Dec. j6. raw A.it 3. ij
A New Publication.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fol<J by
R. AIT KEN,
No. 22, Mar)utJlrret,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philad'lphia, for promoting Uftful
Knowledge, Vol. 3. Pi ice tcfin hards
CfT The fub r criber.s are requeued to call
as above dire£led lor the 3d vol. where may
be had, complete setts unitbrmly printed.
Contents of Vol,
1. An eflayon those enquiries in Natural Phi
losophy, *hich at preterit are mod benefici
al to the United States of North America.
Dr. Kichelas Collin,
а. Conje&ures concerning the formation of
the earth, &c. Dr. B. Franklin.
3. A new and curious theory of Light and
Heat. 2>f. B. Franklin.
4. Defeript on of the process to be observed
in making large iheetsof paper in the Cht
nefe manner, with one smooth furiace.
Dr. B. Franklin.
5. Queries and conjectures relative to Mag
netism, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
б. Explanation of a singular phenomenon, firft
observed by Dr Franklin, and not fatisfac
torily accounted for. Mr. R. Patterjon.
7. An account of an Earthy Subftauce found
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the Falls ; together with
some remarks 011 t!i<* Falls.
Robot MK'aufiny As. D.
8. Observations on the probabilities of the
duration of Human L fe, and the progress
of population, in the United States of Ame
rica. William Barton, Lfq.
9. A letter containing observations made at
Lake Eric, on that singular phenomenon,
by fcamen termed looming.
Andrew Elitest Ffq.
10. An Account nf the Sugar Mapltf-Trec
of the United States, and of the methods
of obtaining Sugar fVom it, together with
observations upon the advantages both pub
lic and private of this Sugar.
« Benjamin Rujh, AID.
11. Memoir on' the use of the Thermometer
in difcoveiiog Banks, Soundings,
Jonathan Williams, Esq.
12. An Account of the most effe&ua! means
of preventing the*deleterious consequences
of the bite of the Crotalus Horridm, or Rat
tle Snake. Benjamin Smith Ba)t** y A/. 1).
13. Magnetic Observations, made at the Uni
versity of Cambridge, (MalTachufetts.)
Dr. S. IVillie.ms.
14. Aeclirate determination of the right af
cen!ion and declination of Bootes, and tl/l*
Pole Star. Andrew Ellicott, Ef<J.
15. Account offeveral Houfcs in Philadelr,jfia,
(truck with Lightning, nn June 7th, ,789,
David R\ttenhouft. y Esq.
' j6. An Account of the efle&s of a fttoke ol
Lightning on a House furnifhed with two
Condu&ftrs. David and Francis
Ihpkinfoil, tfqrs.
17. Experiments end Observations on Evapo
-5 ration in coW Air. 0;. Wijtdr, At D.
18. Postscript to Mr., barton's Letter, to
Dr. Rittenhoufe, oC the 17, of March, 1791.
19. New Notation of Music.
2A\vtt J.
Mr. R. Ptu C TJan.
20. Obfervatiotr? on the Theery of Water
Mills fcfc. IV. Waring.
19. Observations.
David Riltcnkouft.
20. A better relative to a method of finding
Rim of the several powers of the Sires,
David Rittenhoffe, Esq.
7,i. Index Florae Lancaliritnfts.
Hcvrtto MvhUnbeig, D. /).
22. J nv'e (ligation of the power of Dr. Bar
ker's Mill, as improved by James Rumley,
with a description of the mill. W. Waring.
2£. A Tliermemetrical Journal of the tem
perature of the Atmosphere ark! Sea, on a
voyage to and from Oporto, with explana
tory observations theTeon.
"Jonathan Williams, Ffq.
24. Fi'ft memoir of observations on the plants
denominated Cryptogamick.
M. D( Keauvois.
25. A letter, containing oblervations on the
ancient wot ks of Art, the Native Inhabi
tants, &c. of the Western Country.
Major Jonathan Heart.
26. An account of some of the principal dies
employed by the North American 1 ndians.
Extracted by the late Mr. Hugh Martin.
27. An account of the beneficial effects of the
Caflia ChanVaecrifta in recruiting worn-out
lands, and in enriching fuel* as are natural
ly poor; together with a botanicaldeftfrip
tion of the plant.
Jamei Green way of Virginia.
28. An account of a fcriH on the borders of
North Carolina, supposed to have been a
volcano, in a letter from a Continental of
ficer, to Dr. 7* Virginia.
29. An Account«f a poilonous plant, grow
ing fpontaneonfly in the southern part of
Virginia. Extrafred froni a paper by
Dr. Jamei Greenwax, Fifginia.
30. Description of a Machine for mealuringa
(hip's way. Francis Hopkinfon, fjq.
3!. An Inquiry into the queftimi, whether the
Apis Mellifica, or true Honey Ecc, i* a na
tive of America. Benjexin Smith
32. An Account of a Comet.
David Rittenhovfe, EJf.
33. Cadmus or a Treatifeon the Elements of
Written Language, illustrating, by a Philo
sophical divifior. of Speech, the power of
each character, thereby mutua'Jv fixing the
Orthography a-»d Orthoepy. "With an ElTay
on the mode of teaching the Deal, or Suxd
and coi.f.'quently ,Dunib to fpe»k, by Win.
Thornton, M. D. Honored with the Ma
pellanic Gold Medal, by the Philosophical
Society, in December, 1792 N. B.
Cddmu i? p inted in a fine 8. vol. and lolil
by the Publilher lie re of.
34- Obfervationa on the Theory of Wafer-
Mills. #■
35. An Improvement on Metalic Conductor*
r.• Lightning rods. 7 ■ Rvbttt Pdlltrje*.
Honored with the Magellanic Premium, liv
an Award ol tlie Society in December *79^*
36. An easy and expeditious method dif
ftpating the noxious Vaj>our commonly
found in Weill and other lubterraneous
places kbcncicr Ffq.
37. A method of draining P'»nds 111 leve;
grounds. J'P H'tt'"-
38. Oblervations on the feveritv of tile win
ter, tT!<f, 178 a. Rtv. Mttthile Ifiljin.
39. A 'Description of a new Standard for
Weights and Measures; io a letter front
Mr. John Cooke, ot Tipperary in Irelmil.
40, Defeription of a Spring-Block, designed
to a dill a Veflel in failing, frarcis
for, Esq. Honored With the Magel!«nx
Gold Med*!, by an Award of the Society
in December 1790.
December 20.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Stcond-Jh-eet,
Seconddoorbilo v the earner ot C lelimt-ftreer,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
large and general djfortment of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be disposed ot on the lowcft tei
Dec. 23. mw&rtf<
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths c£f Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOll SALE,
Jti elegant AJhrtmeut of
SILVER y PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY & fine CUTLERY,
Which they will dispose of on the mod r€*-
fonnble renns. Devices in hair, Miniatures
felt, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, done as uiuaJ.
December 34.
ALL porfons having any demand against
the Estate and Effects of Mrs. MARY
SINDR'£Y, widow, late of Frankford, Ok
ford t'jVnfhip, in the State of Pennf>lv»nt«,
dec? a ltd; are desired to produce their hc
co'unts to JaCOS Lehiek and Willi am Cheed,
(in Frankford, *forefaid,) Executors and Ad
ministrators of the above m o»<fer tor ,eitlc
ment. And whoever is indt bred to said £f
tntc, &c. are requested to make payment to
the aforefaid Administrators, on or before the
16th of March, 1794, or they will be dealt
with according to law.
Fraukford, Dec. 16.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, Nfw-Youk
THE subfcrib«r intending 10 confine h-mfclf
entirely lo the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, h>gs leave to of
fer hit fetticrito his friends and others, in the
line ol a Stock Brrtker. Those who may plrafc
to favor him will) their bofinefs, may drix »'d
upon having it tranced with the utmost fide
lity ar»d dtfpatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, 801 l on, or any
other part of the United States, wtll be Ori&ljr
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
By M. CARE Y,
No. 118, MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuable collection BOOKS,
imported from London in the Mohawk.
Dec. 19.
Seat of War.
For Sole, at M. CAREY's Stort,
No. 118, Market-street,
A Sheet Map of the
French;, Austrian and Dutch Netl>erlands, in
<vhich the progvefs of the present War may
be traced.———/*Virr three eighths oja dollar.
And a Map ot the Three Nonhei nDiftrifti
of France, divided into Departments.——*
P> ice 5 oj a dolUr.
Maps of the United
States:—Any public spirited gentlemen) paA
felled of material*. tor correffing and improv
ing the Maps of the feveial Stater, will laj
M. Carey under very particular obligation
by communicating them. He is in immediate
want of some for Now-Jerlcy and Delaware n
of xvjich States he i\ now preparing Maps.
Guthrie's Geography!
The fubfeription for this Woi k v ill I* co«r
tinued open, at the prefect rate of twelve
dollars, till the fir ft day of November next p.
after which, it will be raised to fourteen dol*
Urs.
PHILADRLP] IA:
Pi.ii.Tte : , JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South I'uurth-Street.
end2w.
mw&ftf
ti-ftf.