of tf)e IjltotfeiJ
EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 84 of Vol. V.]
The American Brig
BUftTHEN 700 barrels, with her tack
tad apparel as (He came from lea, She is a
Haunch vefiel, not two years old, and may b c
put to „sea immediately. For terms apply
to
GARDINER & OLDEN,
Arch Street wharf,
Who have for sale%
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
a quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and 4 few
calks Timothy Seed —also
Pig and Bar Iron, and Iron call
ings, in any form executed on the
(horteft nbtice.
March 14.
Bojion,
For
& Harriott,
Jofiab Bernard, Majler.
WILL fail the 25th ioft. has good accommo
dation®. For freight or paflage, apply to the
Captain on board ot Mr. Sims's wharf, or to
JOSEPH ANTHONY iff SON.
March 17. dt2s
For Sale, or Charter,
To the Wejl-Indies, or any Port within
the United States ;
Darius Woodwojith, Mailer.
Will carry about 500 barrels* and nqw lies
at Wharton and Graves wharf. For terms
apply to Capt. Woodworth on board, or to
EMANUEL WALKER,
If not Sold or Charted by Tkurjday, Jhe will
then take Freight for Norfolk, Peterjburgh, and
Richmond (Virgina); and Sail on the Sunday
folowing.
March I 5,
For Amsterdam,
The new fall-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
|g|| ADRIAN A
K. Fitzpatriek, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight orpafiage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
<77705. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794. dtf
For Bojion,
DOLPHIN,
William Nichols, Matter
WII*L Sailin about eight days; for freight
or passage apply to the Captain on board at
Hodge's Wharf, betwen Arch and Race-
Streets, or
RUM FORD K ABIJAH DAWES.
3d Mon. 14, 1794- d 1 w.
A Good Compositor &
Prejfman will meet with conjlant employ for
fix months, and one quarter dollar per token
and thousand.
Apply at $0. 61, south Second Jlreet.
March 15. d\t.
TREASVR rofPENNSYL VANIA,
February I4> T794*
PUBLIC Notice is to all perlons
indebted to the Commonwealth, tor monies
borrowed of the Trustees of the Loan Office,
rftablitbed per afit of tbe 4th of April, 1785,
that the time is expired when the last payment
fliould have been made, and every juftifiable
indulgence having been granted, That unless
they come forward and pay off their refpe&ive
balances on or before the firft day of April next,
precepts will issue against all delinquents with
out regard to peifons or circumstances. All
former and existing (beriffs, who have money
in their hands belonging to said Office, are re
queued to brirtg it to me on or before the above
period, otherwise I (hall be under the disagree
able neceflity of prosecuting them without dif
fusion.
CHRISTIAN FEBIGER.
P. S. The Printers throughout the State are
requeued to iniert the above in their papers for
the information of their fellow-cuueni. d
Just Imported,
n the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Ducky
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland Sheetings
Juniper Berries,
Glass fVare y viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious fixes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, are and flat bars,
Hair Ribbandy No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats 9
A quantity of Junk and Oakum>
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
fhouldapplication be made within a few days ;
otherwise Jhe will take freight for Amjler
dvm.
*diot
March 1, 1794.
The subscribers agree
ably to the dire&ion of their fellow-citizens,
hereby give public notice, that a meeting
will be held at the City-Hall at 5 o'clock, on
the afternoon of Thursday the zoth inft. to
take into consideration, and decide upon the
report which was made on Saturday last, of
an instrument expreflive of the thanks of the
citizens, for the services rendered by the com
mittee of health, during the late calamity;
and of the meafuret proper to accomplish the
objedls that were recommended by that com
mittee to the public attention.
It is presumed that the feelings which were
excited, and the sentiments which were ex
prefled, during the fatal months of Septem
ber, O&ober and November last, have not
been extinguiftied or forgotten; and of course
that every citizen will be happy in the pre
sent opportunity, of perfonalfy acknowledg
ing the debt of fraternal gratitude, and of
perpetuating the example of civic virtue, a
rising from the important, hazardous and
fuccefsfui services of the Committee of
Health.
4tf>nw&f
Thomas M'Kean, John SzvanqvicA,
A. J.Dallas, Charles Biddle,
Anthony Morris, William Rogers.
Jonathan B. Smith,
Philad. 17th March, 1794.
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, JAPANN'D
PLATES, !§c.
Done in the most elegant manner, and after
the firft matters ; likewise,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finiftied at the Ihorteft notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth streets.
March 4.
Henry Rape _ State of Maryland.
v. J High Court of Chancery,
Benjamin Gaither > March sth. 1794.
and N
Basil Gaither J
The Complainant states
in his bill that the defendants Benjamin Ga»-
ther and Basil Gaither were seized in fee as
tenants in common of a tra<st of land in Fre
derick County, called Hammond's Strife ; —
that being so seised, Basil executed a power
of attorney to Benjamin authorizing him to
fell his, the said BafiPs interest in the said
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin fold
the said land to a certain William Gaither for
the consideration of fix hundred pounds which
hathbeenfince paid, that the said William
hath afligned to the Complainant Henry Rape
the bond executed by the said Benjamin for
the conveyance of t.ie said land : The Com
plainant now further states (and so appears
to the Chancellor) that the defendants are
non-residents of the itate of Maryland, and
therefore out of the reach of the process of
this court.
It is therefore adjudged and ordered, that
the Complainant procure a copy of.th>s or
der to be inserted in the newspaper of Angell
and Sullivan, and in the United States Gazetie
at least three weeks fuccefiively, before the
twentieth day of May next ; to the intent
that the Defendants and all others, who may
conceive themselves interested in the premis
es, may have notice to appear in this court)
on or before the third Tuesday in September
next, to (hew cause wherefore a decree should
not pass for veiling in the Complainant a com
plete legal title to the land aforefaid.
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. Con.
tuth&sjw
March 18.
AND
Thursday, March 20, 17^4.
FOR SALE BY
<I—tf
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION*
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from adhial survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS Plan will be engraved on a plate 26
inches square ; and it will contain an ex
a& description of all the squares, ftrcets and
alleys in the City and Liberties. The situation
of the several public buildings, (uch as the State-
House, City-Hall, Seat of Congress, Churches,
Meeting-Houses, Hospital, Library and Semina
ries of Learning—of the fevetal Banks, and ol
the Federal and State Offices, will be afccrtained.
The pans which aie built on will be diflinguifh
ed from those that are not. The eourfes of the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, aud
as much of the Canal, intended to connect the
navigation of these two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accuiaiely
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a
view of the.shipping in the harbor, and an ele
vation of Congrefs-Ha 11, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In (hurt, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and desirable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power :
and it thall be compjeated with the greatest
poflible dispatch, asfoon as the generous encou
ragement of fubfenbers shall insure to the author
such a sum as will be fufficicnt to defray ex-
peoccs.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the Subscribers names, and information con
cerning the police, population and prcfent state
of the city.
The price to sub (bribers will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at the time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Subscriptions will be gratefully received at
the principal Booksellers iu this city—and the
original Draft may be seen at B. Da vies',
No. 68, Maikft-ftrcet, at any time until it shall
be put into the hands ol the Engraver.
Feb. 28.
Just Publilhed,
[q one handsome volume, nmo,
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
jit Franklin's Head, No. 41, Second
Stre*t 9
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
CdrreScd and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
Profeflor of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
ol Nature, and of Ecclesiastical History ;
and Minister of the English Church at U
trecht.
Aliquid semper ad communem ufilitatem as-
fcrendum.
The F'irjl American Edition*
THE grand principle of Equality, if right'
ly understood, is the only basis on which
universal justice, sacred order, and perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The view of it exhibited in this
eflay, at the fame time that it reprefles the
insolence of office, the tyranny of pride, and
thi outrages of oppreflioo ; confirms, in the
most forcible manner, the neceflity of subor
dination, and the just demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil difti-nftion,
draws more clo r ely eVery foci'al tie, unites in
one harmonious and justly proportiorted sys
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights ,of human na
ture, of reciprocal oblisation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18.
Lately Published,
SOLD feY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
THE History of New-Hampshire, from rh
Discovery of the River Pifcataqua—by Je
remiah Belknap y D. D. 3 Vol*. Price in Boards.
4 Dollars.
The Forrcftcr, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Clothier.
Prcc, 75 Cents.
A Discourse, intended to commMfionre the
Discovery ol America by Christopher Colum
bus; delivered at the request of the HiUorical
Society in Maifachufetts, Oftobrr 23d, 179*,
being thfc completion of the Thnd Ceritu'\,
since that memorable event. To Which are
added, Fobr DiiTcrtations, connected with the
fubjeft— By the fame author. Price, 50 Cent*.
March 17. tutr&f^w
[Whole No. 542.]
An error having occurred in the publica
tion of the following Article, it is now
republifhed correal.
Opinion of the Attorney General of Jamaica.
CASE: —Kingston, Feb. ia, 1794.
u AN American veflel was loaded with
flour by her owners in America, and sent to
Port au Prince in Hifpaniola, where her car
go was fold and by means thereof, and bills
of exchange, a cargo was purchased on ac
count of the owners, consisting among other
things of the produce of Hifpaniola, in the
months of October, November, December
and January last. The veflel left Port au
Prince on the 12th 6f January, and was taken
by a British privateer on the feme day, and
sent down to this Island, where she arrived
before the publiftiing the inftru&ion of the
sixth day of November.
The cargo has been libelled as French pro
perty —and your opinion and advice is re
quested, whether under the foregoing circum
stances, the cargo will be condemned, riot
withftanding it is proved American property*
and whether a claim should not be put in on
behalf of the owners, notwithstanding the
said inftru&ion."
" I am of opinioh the inftru&ion ailuded
to, does not intend the condemnation of aU
it diredts to be stopped, and detained—Nor
can the term " legal adjudication" be so
understood with any propriety—l apprehend
the objedt of the inftru&ion is to guard a
gainst the too easy difmiflal of veflels and car
goes by the commanders of ships of war, at
their own discretion, and also to insure the
interruption of the supply of provilions to
the French colonies in hostility with Great
Britain—lf therefore the veflel and cargd
ihould by the court be adjudged neutral pro
perty, I am of opinion there can be no con
demnation as
m&thif
Sighed r " ROBERT SEW ELL."
Attorney General.
Price 5 s
PHILIPPE EGALITE
AS the climax of virtue or crime cannot fail
to interest posterity, we are happy to lay
before the publiq the follo wing particulars
tive to the parracide monster Orleans.
The orders to conduct Orleans to Paris had
been given to two Parifiari citizens, Hofto and
Marchats. The former is a captain of the Nati
onal guards of the ftrttion of the Thuilleries; the
latter a captain of the Revolutionary army.. In
fti uftions were given them, to call troops to their
aid, if they (hould be wanted, for the purpose of
executing the orders with which they were char
ged.
Arrived at Marseilles, they fliewed their orders
to Orleans who was seemingly in great conster
nation. He appeared much surprised that tbe in
ftru&ions bore, that troops should be used to
conduct him to Paris ; but the two officers used
every persuasion which could inspire him with
courage and confidence. "You are only sum
moned to Paris." said they, "to appear before
the Revolutionary Tribunal, which will acquit,
and enable you to resume your feat in the Con
vention." "Are the people," asked Orleans,
"well disposed towards me?" "Nay," answered
the officers, "they not only love you, but they a
dore you as their idol 1" This reply quieted
the monster. "It requires no troops," said he,
« to bring me to Paris ; I repair thither with the
utmost confidence."
Cicero,
The officers then resolved to remove him with
out any other escort than themfelvea. Orleans
had by him a knife, a pair of fcifTors, and a me
tal tooth-pick. He offered to deliver these to
the officers-—" But," added he, "you will do
me a favour not to deprive me of them." Hi»
request was complied with.
He seemed to fuffer much when he parted from
histwo sons, Anthony Philip, now eighteen, and
the youngest, fourteen years of age. They in
treated him to write them immediately after hf®
arrival at Paris. His treatment in the prison of
Marseilles was bad, and he fuftered many ri
gours, privation's, and hardlhips.
eodiw*u&ftf
On his way to Paris he difplayfcd his former
turn for ranth, and conviviality ; drank
freely, and, as his conductors exprefled, gre\»
lultier every night, going along. He even a
mused himfelf with fencing with one of hi®
Guides. "Yout mode of fencing," s a id he to
the Captain, "delights me much ; I'll give yoa
my tw* sons to be your pupils."
The officers hhving told him on the road,-that
the Queen had been executed, he
Citizens ! (he was a great and flagitiods wretch."
They having alio acquainted him with the erfe-*
cution of Briflot and the twenty deputies, he tef.
rifi'ed great joy, and loudly exclaimed at diffe
tcnt times, Vive la Republiqve!
His removal to Paris was erfecutcd quite pri
vately. Having arived in the envirous ot the
fßy Rtquejf.)
ANSWER.
LONDON, Dec. 23,Metropolis, he had his beard (haved, his hair
drefled, and put on a fine suit of linen and cloaths
•'Now" said he, 44 I'll make a decent entry in-
to Paris."
Having, however, pafled through the tamers,
bow great was his furprile and difhrtay, when h<
vatftrJ'ghtcoudu&edtothe Comtergeiie. He
coi.ceakd his dt(appointment by a forced and
Hypocntic Imite.
With what fortitude' he heard his sentence.
has already been dated. The Picftdcnt of the
Tnbunal haviug asked him if he had any thing
to fay why the sentence of ihe Law thould not
take place he answered—"No I have no more
defenders."
H s execution was ordered for Thurfay Nov.
7th. but by bis own request, he was beheaded on
the fame day on which he rectived his doom.
He relufed the jiiiniftration of a Priest, and
spent the few hours he had to )iv« in drcfling
hirofelf. At two o'clock in the afternoon, on
the 6th, ult. he received sentence, and at half
past thiee the fame day, the Executioner arrived
with his cart before the Conciergerie. Theftreeta
were more filled with people, than at the exe
cution oF Louis XVI { and that part of the mob
among whom he hdd formerly d-.ftributcd hi*
money, tnfuhed him mod, cfpecially the Ex-
Marquis deSt. Hurges formerly his hireling.
When he came to his palace the cart flopped
for three minutes, cither dehgnedly or on ac
count of ihe great crowds of people. He long
ipgly cast his eyes upon that fupetb mansion,
while the mob called yut, 14 Look, look, 'tis for
the Lft time."
On the fcaflold he attempted to harangue ihe
people, but their (houts drowned his voice.
At halt past five his head waji ftiuck off ; theex
ecuiioncr (bowed ii twice or thrice on the cor
ner of the fc>ffnld, while the mob mceffantly
Vociferated, Bravo! bravof Vive la Rcpubhque.'
Thus penfhed the molt ruthless monger that
ever polluted the Earth. Lou s Philip Joseph
Egaliie, late Duke of Orleans, firft Piince ol the
Blood, Lieutenant General of the French forces
by Land and Sea, was born at St. Cloud, April
*3> 1 747- ihe pupil of, Mirabeau, the
confidante of Dumourier and the client cf Petipn.
Previous to the R evolution, he was the richell
private man in Europe. In his youth he was a
bofoin friend of the Dauphin after wa<ds Louis
the XVI. whose blood he so much ihirfted «as-
Ccr. Wheu the Ktpg was innoculated in 1775,,
Orleans, then Duke of Chartres, wor.ld not quit
the King's apartment. The Duke of Orleans
h'S father, who lived in his letirement at St. Af
faire, never troubled himfelf about his monstrous
son, who, alteT his father's death wallowed in all
kinds of exccfTcs and debaucheries ; and even
*hea he succeeded to hb title, he wa» the wvoft
nefarious man ol his agr.
At court he was despised, for which reason he
cxpofed all its plans, being thefiift peer of France.
In 1787, Louis XVI. held a bed of Jufticc in
the Parl.ament of Paris, when Egali h addrefCed
him with so much boldncfs aud daring effronte
ro, that his Majesty exiled him from the Capita)
by a Letr re-de-Cachet.
On the 6th. of O&ober, 1789, Egalite and
Mirab rau went both in disguise to Vei failles,
wiih ihe Ft (h-Women, whom the former had
hired, in order to murder the Queen.
v»v7rf
House of Reprefentalives.
Friday, 14.
In committee of ike whole on Mr. MatTtfin's
refuhitions.
Mr. sedgwick's speech.
[concluded.]
Mr. S. then proceeded to state the re
gulations of Great Britain which directed
her intcrcourfe with this country —He
laid that refpetting the Weft Indies, the
feme severe, rigid and gloomy exclusion
extended equally with us to all nations;
with this only difference of partial and
temporary relaxations in our fjvor, as in
her opinion her occasions reqflired That
refpefting an immediate intercotirfe with
Great Britain, her regulations were as
favorable to us at to any country, except
only where favors are the effect of direst
stipulation—nay, they are more so as ref
pefis the important articles of pot and
peavl-afli, pitch, tar, timber, and an ex
emption from the payment of alien duties.
If then Great Britain did not discrimi
nate against us—if her discriminations
were favorable to us, where was our right
for complaint ? Should, however, unpro
voked resentment (for gentlemen would
remember to put political considerations
out of the que ft ion) stimulate the adoption
of the proposed measures, the disposition
*)f that country to retaliate would be cer
tain—her capacity of retaliation was there
fore to be considered.
This fubjeft Jie laid had been under the
consideration of the Britilh government.
Should (he fubjeft American (hips to alien
duties—(hould (he impose duties on our
rice and tobacco and fucih other articles as
she can procure frbm other countries, and
on her products exported in our bottoms j
and (hould (he at the fame time counteract
our duties by bounties; their bounties
may be so given as compleatly to balance
our duties, and their duties of course a di
rect charge upon us—l charge on our ex
ports, for the reasons he had already men
tioned, depreciating their value—a charge
on our imports to be fatisfied by the labor
and industry of the country, These would
be thefalutury effedts of this llcjfed system,
so far as the trade Ihould continue under
the load of thele opprefiive hardens. If
the commercial iutcrcourfe between Ame
rica and Great Britain lhou d be deitroyed
by this system of expensive irritation, the
evils were obvious, both as they would ef
fect the ease and prosperity of our people,
and the preservation of the public credit.
He had called the prelent channels of
commerce, the natural ones—there would
he said, be found fuflicient reafou for the
appellation, without entering into an ex
tenlive inveiiigation of the subjeCt, in this
one observation ; that the present Hate
of our trade is produced by counting
house (Calculations having interell alone for
their objett.
It had been said that a great part of
our imports confided of the mere articles
of luxury. This was undoubtedly true*
but luxurious enjoyments could not be
prevented, unlets we would introduce
the manners of Sparta, and continue them
by the inititutions and laws of Lycurgus.
The paifion for diitin&ion could not be
controuled nor would it be eligible if it
could. "If then iaid he, we will use
Madeira wine and green tea—if we will
wear iilks, cambrics, muslins, and other
fuccedania of the fig-leaf, why should we
not be permitted to obtain them, when
they can beit be had, of the best quality
and on the bell terms ; or do gentlemen
suppose our constituents will acknowledge
obligations for being compelled to pro
cure them of inferior quality and on worse
terms ?
Gentlemen had given, countenance to
this project under au idea that it would
entourage manufafitures and the carrying
trade—this to his mind was preposterous.
He had always supposed that to establish
manufaflures, our active capital mult be
encreafed ; and to encourage navigation,
our trade must be extended. How this
measure which would lellen our active ca
pital by the embairaflment it would cre
ate, could afford the means of eftablilh
ing manufactures and building (hips, to
his mind was perfectly unaccountable.
He alked if it had not been demonft ra
ted that the measure would tend to en
hance the prise of the commodities
which we wanted to purchase, and de
crease the price of the products of our
country. It had indeed been conceded,
OmU these effects wefc unavoidable, and
yet these were the, means whereby we
were to extend our manufactures and na
vigation, Should, however, these effects
result, he aflced if we could feel ourselves
julhfied in facrificing to the encourage
ment of a few (hip-cai'penters and other
mechanics, the ease and comfort of that
moll ufeful and refpeftable description of
men, the farmer and planter ? One more
observation he said he would make on this
head, that any measure which might op
press the community, would be felt firft
and mod severely by the poorer class of
people.
Before the fubje<3 was difmifled it
ought to be viewed in a light in which it
was (hewn in the moll baneful colours
its tendency to war and all its dreadful
consequences. As the guardians of the
public happiness, we ought to avoid any
measure which tended to this, if it could
be done confident with the interest of our
country.
He laid it down as- a principle that every
aflion had its chara&er determined by the
motives which g»ve it birth. What
motives then originated this measure ?
—Were they of a commercial, or po
litical nature ? Had G. B. inflicted any
commercial injuries on this country ?
Had (he not calculated her iemulations on
the feme principle of all other natrons—
her own interest ? Had (he .discrimina
ted against us ? Did not the details clearly
(hew that her regulations Were as favora
ble to this as to other countries ! And
did not an infinitely more stubborn fa&,
the existing state of our trade, undenia
bly prove hers to be our bed markets ?
If then these mcafures are not juftified
on commercial considerations, will the na
tion towards whom thcyare directed, be at
a loss to determine our true motives? Jf
doubts could otherwise exist, rccourfe to
the printeddebatei would remove it. There
wefind our negroes carried off; the western
P°^ s —-the Savages, Algerines, and in
(tructions to the commandcrs of (hips, the
constant theme of animated declamation.
We know too well the correftnefs of gen
tlemen's understandings not to be assured
that these fubje£t» would not be so fre
quently repeated, if they were not design-
Ed to tiava effeS. These were not com
mercial, but political considerations. If
then the measure could not be—if it was
not juttified on commercial, but political
ground—if it was not designed ta I etali
ate for commercial, but for political inju
ries ; it followed irrefillably, that the mea
sure alfumed the complexion ot liability.
He did not mean to suggest an idea
but that the injuries complained of might
juflify hostile retaliation ; but he would
affirm, if this measure was designed as
such, it was infinitely too feeble, and
would certainly prove ineffectual. If war
was really the intention, it wa» our duty
boldly to declare it—and, like men, pre
pare for the event and not involve our
country in blood under the disguised pre-,
tence of our commercial regulations. If
we foutid motives for our conduit in an
tipathy to one nation, and in gratitude and
affection to another, and that this was the
cafe, he appealed to the printed debates
and to the faithful monitors of gentlemen
—would it be supposed that Great Bri
tain would not undefftand, resent and en
deavor to revenge it ?
Great Britain he said, was involved in
a war, whether jufl. or not, the govern
ment of this country had no right to de
termine—just or not, we had realon to
believe it was popular. While (he was pur
fwing this war, we complaining of inju
ries, and itimulated by a sense of them, a
dopt measures of retaliation, declaredly
intended to produce embarraflments of
filch a nature as to induce her to change a
course of conduct: (he has pr.rfaed for ages,
and tc which in her opinion (he is princi
pally indebted for her progreflive prosperi
ty-
If serious embarrassments are not to be
expctled, then ought the measure to be
abandoned, because it would not produce
the intended effeQ, and because it would
confeffediy be injurious to us.
Should it produce the embarraflments
foretold, it will materially alFe£t those re
sources on which (he depends for the pro
fecution.of a favorite war. Should (he
feel those measures as intended, would it
not kindle resentment ? Would (he not
discover the cause ? And would (he not
fee! perfect felf-jiiftification in using all the
means in her power to revenge our parti
ality ?
Fne evil he said would not end here.
Great Britain was an important ally, and
on her resources the combined powers ma
terially depended for the prosecution of the
war. A war waged with as much enmity
as had provoked hollility at any period of
the exigence of civilized Europe. Should
we strike at those resources, and from mo
tives they will doubtlcfs comprehend ;
would they tamely submit to fncli condufl,
would they not refcnt and endeavor to re
venge it ? « I wflf repeat, said he, that
if your measures do not materially embar
rass Great Britain, and ia a cotifiderable
degree destroy lier resources, then will!
your expectations be disappointed", and the
end you propose defeated, and you only'
accumulate distress on your own citizefis-
If the embarreffinents you intend shall re
sult from your measures,. then do you in
fact take part in the war—you will there
fore provoke the vertgeanee of the nation
againlt whom your meafuiea are directed,
and of her allies."
1 o (hew the natural effe&s of commercial
regulations pointed aguinft nations to' pro
duce ho£iiity> he mentioned the war witich
took place between Great Britain and Hol
land} in 1652> occasioned by the navigation
a<sl or the former—and that of 1672 between
the French and Dutch, in consequence of
duties imposed by the farmer on linen, and
by the latter on wine. There was he said,
peculiar reason for expetfing such an event
in the present instance, for by the treaty be
tween Great Brita;n and Spain, it was ex
pressly stipulated, « if either fhali be attacked,
molested or inquieteJ in anv of their ltates,
rights, pofleflions or interefl,." It Is then to
be made common cause.
This, lie said, was not all, our real views
would be known to our constituents—" They
are said he, a wile and penetrating people,
and will never consent to be dragged to the
carnage of war, under a pretence of com
mercial regulations—Their honeflcandor will
aohor apd detest all covert and crooked poli-
He did not mean to charge gentlemen with
unworthy motives—He could not however
avoid declaring the comment which in his
opinion woula be made, on experience of the
fatal events which would result from the
adoption of the proposed system—a fyflem
incapable of benefit to the community and
pregnant with enormous evils.
He said before he difmified this part of the
fubjea, he would submit one observation to
the consideration of the committee—lt was
that the navigation and manufactures of the
United States, had ia a few years pafl, en
creased with a rap.dity, equal to the expec-#
tatioiT of the molt sanguine friend of this '
country —That this had resulted from the ex
isting systems—That he believed it to be true,
that at this moment, as great a portion of
our capital was invested in those branches as
was confident with the general welfare—
Under such circumflani.es it became the le
gislature cautiously tp" adopt meafirrcs, which
might diftrail the present filutary order of
things.
CDebate to be continued.)
IN SENATE,
Wednesday, March 12,
£c£>nTimuedJ
The folllowing written meflage wa» re-!
ceived from the President of the United
States, by Mr. Dandrige his Secretaty :
United States, 12th Mareh, 1794.
•Gentlemen of the Senate, and
of the House of Representatives,
I transmit to you, the translation of.
two letters from the Commissioners of hit
Catholie Majesty, .to th? secretary of state,
and of their enclosures. •
G. WASHINGTON.
The meflage and papers therein referred
to were read—
Ordered, That they lie forconfideration.
The petition of Robert Cohnelly wa»
presented and read, praying to be inserted
in the lift of invalid pensioners.
Ordered, That this petition be refer
red to the fecrctary for the department of
war to consider and report thereon to the
Senate.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
prefentstives for concurrence, entitled,
" An ast to provide for the defehce of
certain ports and harbours in the United
States" was read the firft time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
The senate adjourned until 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
Thursday, March ij, 1794.
The Vice Prcfident laid before the Se
nate the reports of the Secretary for the
department of war, on the petitions of
Asa Day,. William Peiliins and Jonathan
Holton
Ordered, That they lie on the table.
The petition of Jabez Rogers was pre
sented and read, praying remiflion of the
excise duties on certain distilled spirits,
said to be destroyed by fire.
On motion.
Ordered, That ihis petition be referred
to Mr. Bradley, Mr. Livermore and Mr.
Robinson to con£der and rejx rt thereon
to the Suate-
The bill sent frcrn the Hcafe of Re
prefcntativca for concurrence, entitled,
"An ast to provide for the defence of
certain ports and harbours itr the United
States" was read the second time.
Ordered, rhat this bill be referred tc*
Mr. King, Mr. Ounn, Mr. Irzard, Mr*
Langdon, Mr. Mora's, Mr. Ellfworth,.
and Mr. Potts, to coulider and report
thereon, to the Senate.
Mr.. Butler reported' fronnthe commit
tSr appointed to eonficjer the bill sent
from the tiou-fe ©£ Representatives for
concurrence,. entkW, "An ast authori
zing a loan of one millicn of dollars,'*'
that the bill* pass r and the report being
adopted,
Ordered,. That this bill pass to the
third reading-
The bill, fcrit from the Koufe of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" An a& to provide a naval armament, ,r
was read the second time.
On motion,
It was agreed that the further conside
ration of this bill, be the order of the
day for Monday next.
The bill " in- addition to the ast for
the punishment of certain crimes agamft
the United States," was read the third
time—
On motion,
To expunge the Bth, feftion as follows.
And be it further enoHed and declared,
That inevery cafe in which, a vessel (hall be
fitted out and armed, or attempt so to be
fitted out or armed, or in which the force
o( any veflel of war, eruifer or other arm
ed veflel, (hall beencreafed or augmented,
or in which any military, expedition or en
terprize (hall be begun or set on foot con
trary to the prohibitions and provifiona
of this ast ; and in every cafe of the cap
ture of a (hip or veflel within the jurisdic
tion or protection of the United State* a*
above defined, and in every cafe in which
any process ifluing out of any court of
the United States, (hall be disobeyed or
refilled by any person or perfont having
the custody ct any vessel or war, cruiser,
or other armed veflel of any foreign princeor state, or of the fubje&s or citizens at
such prince or state—in every such cafe.it
fliall be lawful for the Prdident of the
United States, or such other person as he
shall have empowered for that purpose, to
employ such part of the land or naval for
ctJof the United States or of the militia
thereof as (hall be judged neceflary for the
purpose of taking pofleffion of, and de
taining any such Ihip or veflel, with her
prize or prizes if any, in order to the ex
ecution of the prohibitions and penalties
of this ast, and to the reltoring such prize
or prizes, in the cases in which restoration
fliall have been adjudged, and also for the
purpose of preventing the carrying on of
any such expedition or enterprize from the
territories of the United States against
the territories or dominions of a foreign
prince or state, with whom the United
States are at peace.
It passed in the negative—Yeas i 2.-
Nays 12.
The yeas and nays being required by
one 1 fifth of the Senators present.
Thole who voted in the affirmative, are,
Meflrs. Bradley, Brown, Butler, Edwards,
Gunn, Hawkins, Jackfon,Langdoiv Mar
tin, Monroe, Robinson and Taylor.
Those who voted in the negative, are,
Messrs. Bradford, Cabot, Ellfworth,
I'ofter, Izard, King, Livermore, Mitdh
ell, Morris, Potts, Strong, and Vining.
The Vice President determined the
question in the negative. '
On the question, Shall this bill pass ?
It pafied in the affirmative—Yeas 12,
—Nays 12.
The yeas and nays being required by
one nfth of the Senators present.
Those who voted in the affirmative, are,
Messrs. Bradford, Cabot, Ellfworth, Fos
ter, Izard, King, Livermore, Mitchell,
Morris, Potts, Strong, and Vining.
Those who voted in the negative, are,
Messrs. Bradley, Brown, Butler, Ed
wards, Gunn, Hawkins, Jackson, Lang
don, Martin, Monroe, Robinson, and
Taylor.
The Vice President determined the
question, and further amendments being
agreed to, it was,
Resolved, That tin's bill pass, that i
be engrolTed, and that the title thereof be,
"an ast in addition to the ast for the
Jmnifhment of certain crimes against the
United dates." Ordered, that the Secre
tary desire the concurrence of the House cf
Representatives in this bill. A message
from the house of Representatives by Mn
Beckley their clerk.
Mr. President, the houfo (ifreprefenta
tives have palled a bill,- for making appro
priations forthe support of the military ef
tablilhment of the United States, for the
year one thousand hundred and nine
ty four" and a bill, entitled, " An ast
making further provision, for the expen
ce6 attending the intercourse of the Unit
ed States with foreign nations ; and fur
ther to continue in force the a£t, entitled,
*' An act providing the means of inter
course between the United States and fo
reign nations," in which several bills,
they desire the concurrence of the Senate/'
And he withdrew.
The bills lail mentioned were severally
read the firlt time.
Ordered, That these bills severally pass
to the second read^ig.
On motion,
Ordered, That the documents refered
to in the President's mefiage of the sth
inllant, relative to the vexations and spo
liations of our commerce) be returned to
the office of the Secretary of State.
On motion,
Ordered, That the Secretary of State,
as soon as may be, furnifh the Senate, with
an abftraft of the vexations and fpoliati
onslately committeed upon our commerce,
and by whom, particularly noting the
condemnations, as far as the documents
in his office will enable him.
The bill sent from the House of Re"
preventatives for concurrence, entitled,
' An ast limitmg the time for presenting
claims for destroyed certificates of cer
tain descriptions," was read the second
time.
Ordered, That this bill be referred to
Mr. Cabot, Mr. Taylor, Mr. Ellfworth,
Mr. Gunn, and Mr. King, to consider
and report thereon to the Senate.
The bill " authorizing and directing
the settlement of the accounts of Major-
General La Fayette"—was read the third
time—
Wheieupon,
Resolved, 1 hat this bill pafi, that it
be engrolfed, and that the title thereof
b e > "An act allowing to major-general
* a Fayette his pay and emoluments while
in the service of the United States."
Ordered, That the Secretary defirc the
concurrence of the House of Reprelenta
tives in this bill.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
to-inorrow morning.
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 20.
Extras of abetter from St. Thomas's, dated
February aßth, 1794,
" THE situation of the Weft-Indies be
comes highly interesting, as the Englifli have
taken all Martinique, except Fort Republique,
and Rochambeau has offered to ca
pitulate, tho not on the terms proposed bv
the English."
Extract of a letter» dated Bourdeaux, yVw.
9, to a merchant in this city,
' •' The affairs of France are in a t<ierable
Warn. Our armies perform wonders. We
hive retaken Toulon, and 2 convoys which
were carrying there prOvision and ammuni
tion. These 1 convoys amount to 108 veflels
—I expeil this stroke: will depress the affairs
of our enemies not a little. They will be o
bliged to aik for peace."
Extra 3 of a letter from William Ptnfofe,
late miifter of the Jhip President, to his
friend in Philadelphia t dated Algiers ylh
January 1794.
I have ju!t got another opportunity to
write you by Mr. William Patterfon, who
was taken with captain O'Brien, in a (hip
belongingto Messrs. Thomas and Mathew
Irwin of Philadelphia nine years ago, and
has been irl slavery here ever iince. But
thro' the influence of the Biitifh consul
resident here, has at last obtained his free
dom ; I beg you will give him a friendly
reception on my account,as he was a fellow
fufferer with me,& one who can give you
a much better delcription of our present
deplorable situation than I can do myfelf
col. Humphrey's the 'American minister at
he court of Litbon, dispatched a courier
to this puce Via Alicant to inform the
Dey that he was veiled by the Congress
of the United States of America
with full powers to treat for peace with
the regency of Algiers—but the Dey not
only refufed to fee the courier, but declar
ed if Colonel Humphreys came himfelf he
would make a slave of him also; upon the
return of the coarier with the foregoing
answer from the Dey—-Colonel Humph
reys wrote to us immediately, & requclted
us to petition for relief to the different
States to which our velfels refpe&ively
belong—which he tho't would be the mod
speedy method to effect our redemption if
there wasaprobabilityofits being done—
as Congress was engaged in a war with
the Indians on the wettern frontiers and
their finances perhaps embarralTed, to
gether with the present ciitical fit Bat ion
of America, with refpedl to the belliger
ent powers of Europe, would doubtless pre
vent Congress from paying attention to
our representations as soon as thev other
wise might be inclined to do—-in confe
quense of which they have petitioned the
Legiflatmes ofPennfylvania, Virginia.and
South Carolina—and I cannot entertain a
doubt but a recital of our fufferings, will
excite in thebofoms of humanity and sen
sibility, feelings fufficiently powerful to
prompt our generous countrymen to take
every reasonable measure to obtain our re-'
lease from the moll abject and deplorable
state of slavery. The total number of
American captives here are as follows
13 maflers, 13 mates, 4 second mates, 2
supercargoes, and 86 feamen,total number
118 and our ransom is fixed at 4,000 dol
lars for a mailer, 3,000 dollars for a mate
and second mate and supercargoes, and
I ,SOO dollars forafeamcn; ourmoftgrate
ful and unfeigned thanks are due to our
generous countrymen forthe immediate re-
lief tbey have afforded us through the
American minister at Lrfborc, Col. Hum
phreys, whi«h is 8 dollars per Month to a
master 6 dollars per month to a firft and
second mate, and three dollars to a seaman;
which we receive through the SwedHh con
sul here which icrves in some meal'ure to
lighten the immediate sense of our fuffcr
ings.
We have just received authentic ac
counts of the recapture of Toulon, by the
army of the French Republic, together
with 1; fr.il of the line and 16 an<f
a great number of prisoners—the combin
ed army loft in killed and wounded 3,500
men.
By this Day's Mail-
NORFOLK, March 12,
Or Thursday last arrived in East River,
the brig Ann, of Kingston, Jamaica, Andrew
Mackie, master, from the Bay of Honduras,
bound to Baltimore. Feb. spoke the brig
Minerva, Newman, from Jamaica to New-
Yrrk, off the weft end of the Coilerados.
Feb. 16th spoke the Diana, John Thompfcn
master, from Montego Bay to London, lat.
18, 10, N. long. 80 00 W. from London.
•The Diana was part of the January fleet front
Jamaica, under convoy of the Convert fri
gate, Capt. Lawford, which ihip and nine
fail of Weft-indiamenran a fliore on the Co-
mines in the night, and were totally loft.
On Monday arrived in Hampton Roads
the ihip President, Capt. Smith,from Rotter
dam, which place he left me 7th of January ;
and bring# confirmation of the report of
the recapture of Toulon, which was taken by
flovm, and joco of the allied troops killed
and wounded; the English set fire to the
town and some of the ihipping in the harbor.
Left at Rotterdam, the (hip Sally, Capt Clark,
of Patomack, to fail in a few days. Also the
ihip Lydia, Capt. Toby, of Boftcn, to fail in
a few days for CharleUon.
Yesterday arrived here the ship Charles,
Capt. Langford, in 14 days from the Havan
na. Capt. Langford informs, that Cape-
Francois -was taken by the Spanifti armament
sent against it; that a mulatto general, and
between 15 and 1600 prisoners had arrived
from Cape at the Havanna ; that two
days before he failed 1.500 regular troop6,went
from the Havanna to New-Orleans, to op
pose a body of troops expected down the
Miffifippi, against that place ; that informa
tion wis received at the Havanna, of the tak
ing of Martinique, and preparations making
against Guadaloupe ; that 4 fail of the line
and 4 frigates were gone to Cape-Francois ;
and that it was understood a fleet of 7 fail of
the line and 4 frigates were coming oh the
coast of America.
By a gentleman who came paflenger in the
fchooser Venus, Captaii}«Dolliver, in 14 davs
From St. Kitt s, we learn, that on the evening
of the 23d of February, a letter.was received
from Martinique, informing that fort Bour
bon was carried by Itorm on the 20th. The
flaughier was very great on both fides; among
the (lain was General Clarke, By the above
vefiel we are informed— that the ftjp Syd
ney, Capt. Potter, of and ffjm Baltimore,
bourid to St. Croix, is carried into St. Kitt's,
under pretence of having a <fnaiitity of cloth
011 bo ad thought to be French property.
NEW-YORK March 18,
FROM THE DIARr.
An extra# of a Irtttr from Montreal, dated
ift March informs, " That by a speech made
in the Indian Counful by Lord Dorchester,
weareto expcfl adeclarstion of war ihortly/'
BOSTON, March 12,
Yefierday came into this harbour, the Bri
tifhlhipofwarthe H JJar t Rupert Georci,
Ef«|. commander, from fltiltjax, in '6 days.
It is supposed that ftie was dispatched to take
oil board Prince Edward. Other accounts
fey, she is come for provisions.
COMMUNICATION.
The information from various quarters, as
it refpeds the Commerce of the United States,
and our political situation, is of the mod me
hnchoily nattfre ; and requires all the forti
tridey frLiil Snd resources of those to
direct the political concerns of the People.
When the welfare of our country is at (take,
all smaller ccrifiderations ought to give way,
that by an union of Councils such meafurts
may be adopted as will leflen the evils exist
ing, and prevent future calamities. If the
United States should be drawn into a War,
it is essential to carry it on with vigour and
success, that the whole continent (hould be
united. And the true friends of their coun
try will exert themselves to effetf the desira
ble end.
BALTIMORE, March 17.
Extrdtl of a letter from the French Consul
at Alexandria, to Citiz.cn Mmjonnier in
this town, dated the 13 th injlant.
" Two (hips one from Amsterdam and
the other from Rotterdam, arrived here
yesterday. They failed the latter end of
December.. I saw the captains—they
bi itig a confirmation !of the recapture of
Toulon, and mention an engagment be
tween the Englilh and French fleets
The former was defeated. The French
have token and carried to Brest, two of
the Englilh ships. The people h&ve burnt
and pulled do4vn the house of Lord Howe,
commander of the English fleef.—Holland
prepares for a revolution—the people are
tired of, and will not continue the war. ,
There are enough,my dear colleague, to*
bury all our common enemies alive. "
The papers fn m 'the Southward by thii
day's ma ; l, contain no account of the Cap
ture of a spaniih Fngate with dollars.
A letter in town from Baltimore, dated
last Monday, informs of an arrival there
from St. Marks, llifpaniola—the Captain of
which fays, that all the America*! ihipping in
the ports of that I (land, ill pofleflion of the
ilnglilh, were ordered to Jamaica —
this Captain not liking the vo)j.ge, dipt out
night and tflapca.-— Baltimore papers
of Tuesday, do not mention the above arrival.
Cj" 7he puhlication of tie queries signed
" Fair Play," u further poflponed.
For the Gazette of the United Statu.
ON THf
President's Birth Day.
IVrittcn by a LADT of Virginia^
February 23, 1794.
| 'IMF held the volume of the pal?,
i And o'er each page his fenVftion cast ;
In magic notes proclaim'd the Name
Long hallowed at the font of. Fame 1
When, lo! arfay'd in rcbes ef light
Tralb shone refulgent to the fight!
Thrice wav*d her wand, new radiance shed,
A'ld Virtue s faered influencefpread,
While thus Ihe sung—A Seraph's Lay,
In Heavenly record of this Day !
H a 'l • mighty Time ! whof. empire vast,
Was, is, and Ihall thro* ages last J
Whose wife, and compreienfive end,
The powers of human thought tranfeend !
All Nature bending at thy flirine,
Proclaim thy Origin Divine ;
And tho' -the dark and mystic veil,
O'er penetration mult prevail,
Yet—to Fancy's eye 'tis given ;
Toglance at one: " from earth to heaven'?)
And thro thy various page to scan,
The wond'rou» Hifiory of Man
And fee ! She with new ardour burns,
As to the present Day Ihe turns —
For I well pleas'd each look illume,
And difiipatethe envious gloom
By Fa<slicm Fiendi!
In vain thy shade has intervened,
The fleeting inift has pafs'daway
And but more brilliant made tht Dai !
Hail Thou ! theuniverfal Friend!
Stili lhali fucecfs thy cares attend,
And tho' thy y lr tues Heaven sublime
Thcru'lt live coeval dill with Time !
Belov'd by Age, rever'd by Yonth—
1 hy Fame immutable as Truth !
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
March 21,
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, called the
School Jot
General Savage,
Belville,
Torrington,
Leefon,
Captain Savage,
Connolly,
Spruce,
Leech,
Crow,
Wolf,
Miss Walfinghafri,
Mrs. BelviUe,
Lady Rachel Mildew
Mrs. Terppcft,
Miss Leefon,
Maid,
r ° which wiH be added, bComic Onu
called,
'The DeJerter.
Henry,
Ruflett,
Skirmish,
Simkin,
Flint,
Mr. Marfhafl
tor. Darlcy
Mr. Batet
Mr. Francis
Mr. Bliflet
Messrs. RoWfon, Warrell,
and Darley, jun.
ilrs. 'Marfhair
Soldiers,
Louila,
Jenny,
Margafretta,
For falmovth, CG. B. >
The Brig
mm NANcr,
-Andrew Gwin, Majter.
A good veflel, and will Sail on Monday
next —For Passage only, apply to
GEORGE MEADE.
March 20.
The Letter Bag -will be talen from'
the Pq/l-Officc, at 11 o'clock Simdj next.
Wives.
Mr. Bates
Mr. Chalmers
Mr. Morris
Mr. Moreton
Mr. Cleveland
Mr. Whitlock'
Mr. Francis
Mr. Green
Mr. Bliflett
Mr. Warrcll
Mrs. Morris
Mrs. Whitlock
Mrs. Rowfon
Mrs. Bates
Mrs. Francis
Miss. Willems.
Miss Broadhurtt
Mrt. Bates'Scheme of a Lottery,
To rai/e 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, Muting 15 per Cent, from
the Pr'i-zes—this Lottery confijls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
14,539 Prizes and 23,461 Blanks,
icing about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize. '
THE Dire&on of i he Society for e.Aab.lining
Ufeful Manufactures, having resolved to
erea LOTTERIES for raiting On a Hundred
Thousand Dol 1.11 s, agreeably to an Att ot
the Lcgifl ituie of the State of New-Jersey, nave
appoinied the following persons to superintend
and direfl the drawing of the fame. VII. Nicho
las Low, Rtlfui King, Herman Le Roy, James |
Watson, Richard Harrifon, Ab.]»fi Hanjnond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city ot Nrw-Yoik-
Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthew M Con
ncl and Andrew Bayard, of the city of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, Erq.
Elias Boudinot, General El.as Dayton, jam..
Parker, lohn Bayard, D»aor Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton, Joshua M. Wallace, Joseph
Bloomfield, and Ehfha Boudinot, of New-jer
sey, who offer the following Scheme of a Lot
tery. and pledge themselves to the public, that
they' will take every affurancc and precaution in
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from time to time, as received, into
the Banks at New-Yo.k and Philadelphia, to
remain for the purpofeof paying Pnz s, which
(hall be immediately discharged by a check
npon one of the Banks.
SCHEME:
1 Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 20,000
10,000
5, 000
2,000
1
2
5
10
20
100
300
1000
1,000
5 00
100
5°
20
1$
12
2000
QOOO
8100
i Prizes.
„ 461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,00,
0 Last drawn number, 2,000
,8,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
The drawing will commence, under the in
fpeftioo of a Committee of the Superintendants,
as Toon as the Tickets arc fold.of which timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendants have appointed John N.
Cummins, of Newark, Jacob R. Hardenberg,
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, ot
Trenton, as immediate Managers the.eol, who
have given ample fecu.ity for d.fcharging the
trust rcpofed in them.
(tjgT I n order to secure the punctual payment
of the Prizes, the Superirttendantsof the Lottery
have direaed that the Managers (hall each enter
into bonds in 4 c,000 dollars, with four fuflic.ent
fccurities, to peiform their inductions, the iub
ftanceof which is
I That whenever either o. the Managers
shall receive the sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he Oiall immdiately place the fame in one ot the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedii of the Governor of the Society, and luch
of the Superintendants as live in the city
the monies are placed, to remain there until the
Lot wry is drawn, for the payment of the Prizes.
11. The Manageis to take fufficient iecunty
for any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
refponnble for them. .
jjj C ep regular books of Tickets lold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ftrafls of which (hall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society*
Paterfon, January i, i 794-
On application to cither of the above gentle
men, intorroation will be given where tickets
mdv he had.
February 24.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
thofeofthe public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
Ihorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, cbaifes, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chaiis, and harness
ofevorv description, in the neatest and newift
Kilhion now prevailing >n the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
v wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfattion to those who please to employ him
He has for sale, several carriages almost
finilhed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phjcton for
one or two horses, and a Culkey with a falling
tO P- .—
Carriages fold on Commimon.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794
AVIS.
LE habitant infortunes de la Colonic Franfaifc
de St. Doromguc qui dans Pincendie du
Cap font vcnus chercher un afilc dans Ics Etats
Unit font jnformea que la Republique leur ac
cords un passage pour France. Us font invites
en confequcnce a fc presenter a cct effct d'ici a
huit jours chez les Consuls & agens de la Re
publique dans let differrnts Ports des Etats Unis.
A Philadilphie, le 10 Vcnto*—l'an 2d dc
la Republique Francaife unc & indivisible.
(»8 Fevrier, 1794. vieuxJlile)
Le Miniftrc Plenipocentiare de la Republique
Franyaife.
FAUCHET.
The title's ofV wjptpers in the Unitti Sulci an
rcju'jlcd to injcrt l/u dime Molieei'licir paper. 8.
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 15, Dock-
Street :—
A few Bales of Ruflia Sheeting!,
Barcelona Handkerchief in Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchong T,i, Hyson and
Tonkav, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Brimstone,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. 20. 3taw6w
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON the 31ft. of last month, the subscriber ad
dressed a letter to Miffrs. Thomas Pcar/alt
& Sen, merchant, in New-York, and inclosed
therein a banknote, No. 445, for twenty dol
lars ; one ditto, No. 151, lor thirty dollars ;
and one ditto, No. 3,866, for twenty dollars.
—He also addressed a letter to Mr. Gilt/ft
SahonJlM, merchant in New-Yoik, inclosing a
bank bill, No. 148, for fitly dollars, indoifed
! on the back thereof in these woids—" Pay the
within to Mr. Gilbert Saltemllall—Eben. Hunting.
He also addressed a letter to Mtffrs. White
& Waricll, merchants in New-York, and inclo
sed a bank bill fojlen dollars, and a draft in fa
vor of said White 0 Wardctl, which lett rs were
put in the Poll-Office on said 31ft January, to
be forwarded to New-York : But by letters re
ceived from ihe Gentlemen to whom they w re
severally addressed, the money was robbed
from each letter before delivery.
The Public arc requested to endeavor a de
teftion of the Villains who commitied the above
robbery. The bill indorsed, 1 think was a York
bank bill, and some others, one or more was
of the United States bank, remitted at Philadel
phia. Any person discovering the Thief, and
returning the Money, (Hall be entitled to sis'
dollars reward.
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
EBEN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, 14th Feb. 1794. 3 W 3" W
10,000
10,000
I^,ooo
Parry and Mufgtave
Goldsmiths & Jewellers,
No. 42,
e 0,000
30,000
36,000
81,000
262,000
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortment of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY & Jine CUTLERY,
Which they will dispose of on the nioft rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett* and every thing in the §old and silver
way, done as u»ual.
December 24-
q'j* This Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement —The Subscription
encreafes daily—Jdvertifing Favors are
folicited —These conjlitute an ejjtntial Item
in diminijhing the Debit Jtde oj the Account.
FOR SALE,
By MATHF.W CAREY, No. 118.
Market-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery:
Designed to exhibit in a new point of view,
its effects on morals, indujlry> and the peace of
Jfociety. Some fatts and calculations are offered
to prove the labor of freemen to be much more
produQive than that ot Jlaves ; that countries arc
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the neccffary conclusion, that
slavery is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cents.
February 15.
WANTED
AN APPRENTICE
To the Printing Business, , Enquire at this
Office.
ta&ftf.
To be Sold at Public Venaue,
On Friday the nth day of April next,
atthehoufeof John Thomson, in Perth-
Amb oy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
THE Lot contains eleven acres, on which is
an orchard of grafted apple trees, a well of
excellent water, a large stone cistern, and a very
commodious stable and coach-house, and a great
quantity of the best building stones in the walls
of the house, which was formerly built tor the
residence of the Governors of New-Jersey. The
fuuation of this Lot is so well known for its
healthiness and beautiful profpeft of the Rariton
i rivet to the weft of the bay, and Sandy-Hook to
the east, that a further description is unnecessary.
The conditions of sale will be, one third of the
purchase money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, when a good and fufficient Deed will
be given to the puichafcr, by Walter Ru
th erfurd, Esq. President of the Board of
Proprietor* of the Eastern Division of New-
Jersey, and the remaining two thirds fatisfatto
rily secured in equal annual paymeuu.
By order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Rcgifter.
Perth-Amboy, February 5, 1 794. 2awem
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, brgs leave to of
fer his fervicesto his friends and others, in the
line o(a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the uiraoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
part of the United will be ftriftly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&thtf
* N O R R IS. COUR T,
Back of the New Lijftry, between CUefnut
mw&jftf
IN THAT CITY
and Walni :-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFU LLY i nforms his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on tlie business of . .
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-fliutters,donfc in the molt
elegant manner, and with diipatch.
Orders from the country will be thanktully
recei ved,.and duly attended to.
December 30,
Excellent CLARET,
n hoglVeads and in cafe, of 5 o bottle, each.
ALSO,
A fe\r cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
[n pipes, hoglheads and quarier calks,
FOR. SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111, South Front'llreet
Jan. 2, 1794-
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE BY
M.Carey,No. 118,High-Jireet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, 'which are full of Common
Sknsk, the bejl sense in the world.
THIS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all clatfrs of people, merchants, me.
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
work acquired, that it has passed thro three im
prcflions in the caltern dates, and many houle
holders deem it so ufeful as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theii families. f*R 1 c e as.
I February 4. dlt
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Petersburg in RulTia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-street.
March 4,1794.
War Department.
January 30th 1794.
INFORMATION is hereby given «o all the
military invalids of the United States,that the
sums to which they are entitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on <ne sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Commiflioners of the Loans
within the states refpeftively, under the usual re-
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
mull be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpe&ive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the President
of the United State.*,
$3* The printers in the refpettive states are
requ.-fted topubliOi the above in their newspa
pers lor the space of two months.
C d2m
Januaty 30,
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representatives,
December 2111,1793.
WHEREAS the Commiflioners ot public
Accounts, have reported, that they can
not proceed to the investigation of the Treasury
Accounts, refpe£ling special Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation :—Therefore,
Refolvcd, That all holders of special Indents
be dtrefled, and required, on or before the firft
day of November next, to deliver the Ipecial In
dent s in their pofleflion to one or other of the -
Commiflioners of the Treasury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to report to the Com
miflioners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
them refpeftively received, and also 10 the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next,
an d that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firll d-ay
of November next, lhall be, and the fame are
heieby barred.
Rejoined, That public notifce of this refolocion
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, unul the firft day of
November next. And that the Delegatesef this
State in the Congress of the United States, be re
queued to cause this rclolution to be published
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for the expences attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
senate for their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SA If FORD DART, C. H. R.
In the SENATE,
December 21(1,1793.
Resolved, That this House do concur wuh the
House of Representatives in the foregorng »efo-
lutions.
Ordered, That (be resolutions be lent to the
Houic ot Rcprefentacives.
by otder of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov*
JuJl Imported,
From London, Dublin, and Gfafgow,
And now opening for sale,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Marlet-fireet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION «F BOOKS,
Among which are the following:
NEW Annual Regiiker for ifa 2
European Magazine for the nrlt lix
months of 1793 . „
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester focieCy, S vo ' s -
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Difne/s lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty,a collection of eflfays
Varieof Prussia's works
Calm obfcrver—by Mackintofli
R udell's ancient and modem Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, fnperbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Briffon's vorage
Rochon's voyage to Madagalear
ToWnfend's travels in Spain
Tafio's jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Bulfon abridged
History of birds
Philrps's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vol*.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vol«.
Dow** history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry ~ ,
Lavater on physiognomy, abridge
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kifles of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Travels , .
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and ■ mmater.alifm
Berchold's advice to patriotn travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description oi China
Murphy's trapflation of Tacitus
Godwin on political justice
j Gazetteer of France, 3 vo ' s *
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's Iketches of the history o man
Liberal opinion*, or the history <>i Bemgnns
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell tami y
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history oi the bible
Watson's life of Philip Hd- & IHo.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France . 9
Cox's travelsintoDenmark,Ruffia,Poland, &c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&ice ol nud~
diwjtawl
H. KNOX,
Secretary oj IVar.
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes oil the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Ilobertfon's treatil'e on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
I Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's dissertations
London practice of physic
Bell's forgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
For Sale by the Subscribers,
Muscovado sugar in hhds. & bbsi.
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, in pip«
and quarter calks.
Spanish Indigo.
Boston Beef, in barrels.
And a fsnall invoice of Muslins.
NALBRO' & JOHN FRAZIER,
No. 164, South Front-ftrcet.
March 8
PHILADELPHIA: .
Printed by JOHN FENNO, Ha j,
South Fourth-Street.
fmw4W