of tfje fitaiifeD fetter
EVENING A
[No. of Vol. V.]
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Ca.pt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amflerdam, and now landing
on Walnut-fireet wharf, viz,
GIN in pipes y
A fenv bales Holland Ducky
Ditto QmaburgSy
Holland Sheetings
JiMfper Berries,
Tare, vim* Tumblers and Mugs, na
riaus firxs.
Sbeaibing Papery
kvedes Iron, square and flat bars.
Hair Ribbandj No. 4.
.Jhitcb Great Coats,
A quantity of Jimk and Oakum, &c.cSfc.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
Jhouldapplication be made within a few days ;
other wife Jbe will take freight for Amjler
dr>m.
March I, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
(Price Twenty Cents)
By Mathew Carey,
No. 118, Market-Street,
Love in a Village,
A COMIC OPERA,
As performed at the New Theatre,
Chefnut-Street.
Feb. 18.
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from aflual survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS Plan w\ll be engraved on a plate 26
inches fquarc ; and ic will contain an ex
defcription of all the squares, ftfeets and
alleys in the City and Liberties. The situation
©f the several public building, a# 'be State-
Jlaufe, City-Hall v Seat of Congiefs, Churches,
Meeting-Houses, Hospital, Library and Semina
ries of Learning—of the several Banks, and of
the Federal and State Offices, will be ascertained.
The parts \vh ch are built on will be diitinguifh
cd from those that are not. The courses of the
rivultts between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended to connect the
navigation of these two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a
view of the (hipping in the harbor, and an ele
vation of Congress-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In (hort, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and deferable work acceptable to an eo
lightened public, that is in the author's power :
and it (hall be compleated with the greatefl
pofltble dispatch, as soon as the generous encou
ragement of fubfenbers shall insure to the author
such a sum as will be fuftkicnt to defray ex
pences.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the Subscribers names, and information con
cerning the police, population and present state
of the city.
The pricc to fubferiboa will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at the time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Subscriptions will be gratefully received at
the principal Booksellers 111 this city—and the
original Draft may be seen at B. Da vies',
No. 68, Maikrt-ftreet, at anv time until it shall
be }>ut into the hands of the Engraver,
Feb. 98.
Treasury of Pennsylvania,
February 14, 1794.
PUBLIC Notice is hereby given to all per font
indebted 10 the Commonwealth, for monies
borrowed of the Truflees of the Loan Office,
eftablifbed per a& of the 4th of April, 1785,
that the time is. expired when the last payment
should have been made, and every juftifiable
indulgence having been granted, That unless
they come forward and pay off their refpeflive
balance* on or before the firft day of April next,
precepts will issue agaiuU all delinquents with
out regard to persons or circumstances. All
former and existing fberiffs, who have money
in their hands belonging to said Office, are re
queued to bring it to me on or before the above
period, otherwise I (ball be under the disagree
able necessity of prosecuting them without dif
tindion.
CHRISTIAN FEBICER,
P S. The Printers throughout the State are
rrquefted to iniert the above in their paper* lor
the information of their fellow-cituciu.
For SALE,
-*1 The Schooner
NEPTUNE
(Lying at Morton's Wharf).
She is a good strong vef
mil fel» burthen about 500 bar
- relS, and fails remarkably
fact. Inventory may be seen on beard, or at
the Store of the Subscribers.
Wharton & Lewis.
Feb. a?, 1794. dtf
Wanted to Charter,
lit A VESSEL
Of iooo Barrels burthen.
Enquire of
d—tf
Feb. 24, 1794.
For Sale or Charter,
<"3-i The Ship
jm&j ANDROMACHE,
(an American bottom)
John Moore t Mailer ;
Is a stout good veflel, about two years eld,
burthen 13 a tons, has only made three voy
ages, and may be sent to sea at a small ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
Wharton & Lewis.
Feb. 21, 1794. dtf
A Slitter of Iron
WANTED.
A MAN well /killed in rolling and
flitting Iron into Sheets, may have
good encouragement by calling on the
Printer. Feb. 27. eop4t
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock-
Sirett:—
A few Bales of Ruflia Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes*
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchofig TVa, Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Brimstone,
With a Variety of other G6odt,
3taw6w
Frb. ao.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfreads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter caflts,
FOR SALE BT
No. in, South Fronijllreet.
Jan. 1794- dtf
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldfmitbs Jewellers,
No. 42,
*t>UTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant Assortment of
SILVER PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY fne CUTLERY,
Which they will difpole of on the most rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, done as nfual.
December 24.
lawtf
A RECOMPENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby offered by the President and Direc
tor* of the Dank of the United States, to any
person who (ball, on or before the full day of
May next, produce to them such a plan and ele
vation of a Banking Houfr, as (ball be approved
of by them.—A plain, yet handsome front is
desired : The whole building is to be substantial
and commodious with as much space around it,
as the size of the ground will admit.
The Lot on which the building is to be erect
ed, is situated on the weft fide of Third-ftrect,
between Chefnut and Walnut-streets in. Phila
delphia ; and its dimensions are 110 feet on
Thtrd-ftreet, and about ioafeet weifwatd,
THOMAS WILUNG, Prefidcnt.
eopjw.
AND
Monday, March 5, 1794-
JOHN CRMG.
JOHN VAUGHAN,
mtv&ftf
DVERT I S E R.
BOOKS.
A CHOICE COLLECTION,
In the various branches of Literature, im
ported by the last arrivals from Europe,
for Sale at very reasonable prices, by
James Kennedy,
No. 26, Spruce, between Front & id Streets >
Among which arc the followinp :
CHAMBERS'S Dictionary of Aris and Sci
cneos, $ Vols. Folio.
Henry's Bible and Commentary, 6 Vol#. Folio.
Univerf.'l History, 7 Vols. Folio.
Churchill's Collection ot Voyages, 6 Vols. Folio
Palladia's Architecture, bell Edition, a Vols.
Folio in one.
Rapt/i's History ol England, with Tindal'scon-
tinuation, 3 Vols, Folio.
Hume't. f-Jiftory of ditto, with Smollct's ditto,
14 Vols. Odlavo.
Matron's complete Treatise of Perfpc&ive, 2
Vols, in one.
Travels, London Edition, 5 Vols. 4to.
Clavigeio's H'ftory of Mexico, 2 do. do.
Robertfon'sWiftory of America, 2 do. do.
Maclaurin's Newton's Philosophy, 4:0.
M'Knigln's Harmony of the Gospels, do.
Low man on the Revelations, do.
Lockc on cbe Epistles, do.
Led wick's Antiquities of Ireland, do.
Whiiftwrfi's Theory of the Earth, do.
Glass's Account of the Canary Islands, do.
The Annual Register, from its Commencement
to 1791, mclufive, 34 Vols.
Niebuhi's Voyage to Arabia, 2 Voli, Octavo.
Hart ram's Travels thro' the Southern States.
Some of the very latelt and best Collections of
Voyages and Travels.
Crrvifis Livcsof the Roman Emperors 10 Vols.
Q&avo.
L'Antiquite expliquie par B. Montlaucon, 15
Tom. so.
Antiqui'cs d'Egypte par Nordeo.
Di&:onnaiie Hilloriqoe 9 Tom.
Theatre de Voltaire el eg. rehe, g Tom.
Hiftoire Romairi par Rollin, 16 Tom.
Oeuvresde Boileau,de Moltere, &c. with many
others equally good. A Catalogue of whiflh
may be fecn at the place of Sale.
He has also for Sale,
An excellent Hadley's Quadrant.
A few Acromattc Pocket Perfpc&ivp Glafles.
A Camrra Obfcura.
A capital German Flute, with 6 Keys, and ad
ditional joints.
And a few elegant colour'd Prints.
Feb. 28
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Coffee-Hcufe t>f this
City :—
RESPECTFULLY informs his Fliend* and
the Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippen-Strect, be
tween Third m 4 Fourth-Streets, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly improved, and ;s now
very commodious ; where he has turniftied him
felf with the best of LIQUORS, and will fur
nifha. TABLE for Parties, with the best provi
sions the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
lhorteft notice. From his long experience in
this line of bnfinefs, he flatters himfelf he (hall
be able to give fatisfa&ion to all who may plcafc
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29,1794.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining tire Episcopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
those of* the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
shortest notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coache*, chariots,, phaetons with and
without cran« necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chaits, and liarnofs
ofevery description, in the neatest and newest
fefhion now prevailing «n the United Stares.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, ard capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaftion to those whopleafe to employ him.
He has for sale, several carriages almost
Snifhed, such as coachees, an Italian wind!"or
chair, hung an steel springs, a ligl t phaiton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794- m&r3m
vD" This Gazette Jhallhe enlarged, as it
receives encouragement —The Sulfcripilon
encrcafes daily—Advert i/ing Favors are
foliated —These cons itute an ejfential Item
in Ji the Dtbit fide of the Account.
[Whole No. 527. ]
Congress of the United States.
IN SENATE,
Saturday, Feb. 22.
The Senate relumed the consideration
of the repoit of the committee on the
petition of Conrad Lauh and others, re
fpe&ing the eledtion of Mr. Gallatin to
be a Senator of the United States, and
after progress,
On motion,
Ordered, That the further considera
tion thereof, be postponed until Monday
next,
The Vice-President laid before the Se
nate a report from the Secretary for the
department of Treasury, on the expedi
ency of erecting a light house on Cape
Hatteras, in the State of North Caroli
na, together with sundry papers therein
referred to, which were read.
On motion,
Ordered, That this report and the pa
pers therein referred to, be committed to
Mr Martin, Mr. Langdon and Mr. King,
to consider and report thereon to the Se-
nate,
A motion was made as follows
" Resolved, That Albert Gallatin re
turned to this House as a member for the
State of Pennsylvania, is duly qualified
for, and elected to a feat in the Senate of
the United States."
Ordered. That the consideration of
this motion be postponed until Monday
next, and that a number of copies of the
4th article of the firft confederation of
the United States, be printed for the use
of the Senate.
The Senate adjourned until Monday
next at 11 o'clock.
Monday, Feb. 24.
The Senate resumed the confederation
of the motion made on the 22d instant,
on the report of the committee on the
petition of Conrad Laub and others, ref
pciting the election of Mr. Gallatin, to
be a senator of the United States, and af
ter progref9
*4teop.
On motion,
Ordered, That the further confedera
tion thereof be postponed until to-morrow.
A mefiage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk :
" Mr. President—The House of Re
presentatives have parted a bill, entitled,
" An a£t making appropriations for tlie
fuppoit of government for the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety four,"
in which they desire the concurrence of
the Senate. And he withdrew.
The following written meflage was re
ceived from the President of the United
States by Mr. Dandridge his Secretary.
United Stares, 24th February 1794.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of the
House of Representatives,
The extraits, which I now lay before
you, from a letter of our Minister at Lon
don, are supplementary to some of my
past communications ; and will appear to
be of a confidential nature.
I also transmit to you copies of a letter
from the Secretary of State, to the Mi
nister Plenipotentiary of his Britannic
Majesty, and of the answer thereto, upon
the fubjeft of the treaty between the U
nited States and Great Britain ; together
with the copy of a letter from Meffis.
Carmichael and Short, relative to our af
fairs with Spain ; which letter is con»ec
ted with a former confidential meflage.
G. WASHINGTON.
The mefiage and papers therein refer
red to were read.
Ordered, That they lie for confidcra
tion.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
Tuesday, February 2jtb, 1794.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
prefentativea for conncurrence, entiled,
" An ast making appiopriations for the
support of government, for the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety four,
was read the firll time.Ordered, T)iat this bill pass to tlie fe
coud reading.
The Senate resumed the consideration
of lh<. motion m.:de the 22d iuftant on the
repoit of the committee, on the petition
ot Conrad I,aul> and others, relpeiSing
th. elect 011 of Mr. Gallatin to be Senator
ot the United States, and after piogrefs,
On motion,
Ordered, That the further confidera
tioii thereof be postponed until to morrow.
It was agreed that the fccond leading
of the b:il " in addition to the adV for the
puijiflimcnt of certain climes against the
United Silted," aliigncd as the ordct of
thii day, be further poltponed.
The Senatf adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning,
Wcdnefdav, February 26th, 1794.
A message from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Becklev their clerk :
" Mr. President—The House of Re
pref.ntat Ives have pafled the bill, sent from
the Senate, for concurrence, entitled," An
adt in alteration of the act eltabhihing a
mint, and regulating the coins of the U
nitei 1 States."—And he withdrew.
The Senate_ resumed the conlideration
of the motion made the 22d instant, on
the report of the committee, on the peti
tion f Co;:rad Laub and others, refpett
ing the election of Mr. Gallatin to be a
Senator of the United States; and after
proiTcfs,
On motion,
Ordered, That the further considera
tion thereof, Lc poltponed until to-mor-
The following written meflage was re
ceived from the President of the United
States, by Mr. Dandridge, his Secreta-
Urited States, 26th February, 1794.
Gentlemen of the Senate,
I have caused the correspondence,
which is the l"ubje£t of your resolution of
tiv? 2.; th day of January last, to be laid
before me. After an examination of it,
I directed copies and translations to be
made ; except in those particulars, which,
in my judgment, for public considera
tions, ought notfo be communicated.
Tikile copies and translations are now
transmitted to the Senate; but the na
ture ot them manifefts the propriety of
their being received as confidential.
G. WASHINGTON.
The m.:flage was read,
Ordered, That the mefTageand papers
therein referred to, lie for confidcration
The Vice-Prefideot communicated a
letter from the Secretary for the depart
ment of Treasury, explaining the causes
of delay in reporting on the petition of
Arthur Hu jhes, referred to his conside
ration—which was read.
Ordered, That it lie on the table.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled "an
act making appropriations for the support
of government, for the year one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-four," was read
the second time.
On motion,
Ordered, That the further considera
tion of this bill be postponed.
The Senate adjourned until 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
Thursday, February 27th, 1794.
O.i motion,
Ordered, That the bill, sent from the
House of Representatives for concur
rence, entitled, " an ast making appro
priations for the support of government,
for the year one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-four," be referred to Mr. Ca
bot, Mr. Frelinghuyfen, and Mr. Lang
don, to consider and report thereon to
the Senate.
The Senate resumed the consideration
of the motion made the 2zd inilant, on
the report of the committee, on the pe
tition of Conrad Laub and others, re
fpe&ing the election of Mr. Gallatin to
be a Senator of the United States, and
after progress,
On motion,
Ordered, That the further considera
tion thereof, be poltponed until to mor-
row.
The Senate adjourned uutil 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
» CONGRESS.
House of Reprefentaiivu
January 30.
In committee of the ivbole on Mr. MaJifon't
refolulions.
SPEECH or Mr. FOSTER,
of Maflachufetts.
UPON the firft statement of the pro
portions which have been so long under
the coafideTation of the committee, I wa*
one of the individuals who had to examiiu
the iubjeit in the- various lights under
whicli it ought to be viewed, in order to
form an opiTiion upon the ucceflity, the
expediency, and the probable consequen
ces of the adoption of the system which
the resolutions contemplate. I have litt
ened with unremitted attention to the de
bates, and have endeavoured that a liugle
obfeivation of importance (hould not el
cape unnoticed. The resolutions, at filit
view, appeared important—oil a critical
and attentive examination they do not ap
pear less so—they confefledly involve a
"great variety of interests—interests of the
highest magnitude, and> if adopted, will
eiTentiallyalterthecircumftances,the views,
the commercial profpe&s, and the civil
policy of the National government.
The candour and ingenuity with which
the fubjcct has been difculfed, have given
me great fatisfaclion. The arguments
against and in support of the resolutions,
have been displayed in a manner highly
gratifying to an enquiring mind. The
variety of view's in which the fubjeft has
been examined—its relative connection
with our agriculture, our manufafhircs,
and the whole civil polity of the United
States—the influence which the system
would have upon our intercourse with fo
reign nations, and the probable effe&s re
•fulting to them, more especially to France
and Great-Britain, have afforded much
information ; and I am happy in acknow
ledging my obligations to the gentlemen,
who have, with so much ability and pre
cision, favored us with their sentiments.
Much time, Mr. Chairman, has been
already spent in the discussion. The fub
jeft is momentous and required it. The
affirmative and the negative of the ques
tion have been ably advocated and ably
supported.
A general review of the arguments may
not perhaps be without its life.
111 support of the resolutions it has been
urged,
That the measures of the tendency
hereby contemplated have been long ex
pected by the citizens of the United States.
That the regulation of our commerce
was the principle which fir'A induced the
formation and ellablifhment of our present
constitution,
That the adoption of the resolutions will
probably excite a competition in foreign
countries, as well as among our own citi
zens, operating to produce fuppliea of
such articles as we may with, from other
nations than those who now furnifh us,
and as an encouragement to the domestic
manufacture of the fame articles.
That they will tend to the increase of
our navigation, enable 11s to obtain our
proper {hare of the carrying trade and en
joy those benefits and advantages to which
from our relative situation and existing
circumstances we are entitled.
That, by a pursuit of this system, we
may injure the individuals, particularly
the manufacturers, and consequently the
governments of other countries, and make
our anemies feel the extent of our power,
our abilities to injure them, and thenc*
induce a proper refpeft for our rights and
interests, and our government.
That the probable diminution of our
revenues, from the poflible diminution of
our imports, would, iu some degree, be
counter-balanced by the increase of the
duties contemplated by the resolutions.
That wt are bound to obtain repara
tion for the injustice done to individuals
of our own country, by regulations con
travening the Laws of Nations, made by
some of the belligerent Powers ; or, in
default of obtaining such reparation, we
are bound to compensate the damages
which such individuals have sustained.
That provision is hereby proposed to
be made, for raising monies to compen
sate, in the firlt instance, the individuals
thus injured.
That leaving dur trade to regulate it
felf, is, in fad, leaving it to be regulated
by foreign nationt.
That jealousy and ill-will have always
marked the line of conduct of Great-Bri
tain toward America. She has never ex
ecuted the treaty of peace, (he carried
away our Negroes, (he detained our weft
era posts, (he excited and encourages the
Indian war, (he has let loose the Alge
rines, (he has violated our neutrality and
committed spoliation on our (hips at sea.
That the balance of our trade with
Great-Britain is now much against us—
this has produced on her part an extensive
credit, operating as a grievance, creating
a foreign influence, which pervades the
mercantile and trading part of the corn
munity, may extend into our public coun
cils, and have au undue e(fe£l on our go-
vernment
That we have all the necessaries of life
produced in our own country, and conle
quently have greater advantages in esta
blishing such regulations, beyond what
are enjoyed by a populous and manufac
turing nation-
That (hould the proposed system be a
dopted, and carried into effect, there is
no piobability of retaliation on the part
of Great-Britain ; (hould (be be disposed
(he cannot effect it. If the iflue require
felf-denial, we can endure the evil with
the greater advantage, and may fafcly
calculate upon a complete triumph.
That Britain it now at war againll re
publican principles, and our commerce
enables her to prosecute that war.
That the balance of our trade with
France has always been in our favor. That
friendlliip and dilinterefted benevolence
have ever marked her conduct towards
the United States.
That gratitude to the French natioq
requires us to turn the current of our
trade from Britain to them.
That the system contemplated by these
resolutions will induce France to confer
on us additional favors ; and finally, that
by with holding our commerce from G.
Britain, we .'hall aid the cause of the
French, who are at war against despotism
draggling for liberty, and the rights of
freemen.
In oppoCtion to the resolutions it is
said,
That though measures similar to those
now contemplated, may have been here
tofore expe&ed, a necefiity for their adop
tion does not now exist.
That regulations have already been
made, which have had a happy influence
in increasing our commerce, our manufac
tures and our navigation.
That our commercial advantages, our
filheries, our seamen, and our ships, have
been progrcflively increasing since the a
doption of our present happy constitution
—that their numbers and growth are {till
increasing, and under the influence of the
existing system, will continue to do so as
rapidly as will be beneficial to the com
munity.
That although additional duties on fo
reign tonnage might encourage our navi
gation, yet the increase ought to be made
with caution ; a very great or undue pro
partion of American capital being veiled
in navigation would be hazardous, and in
cafe of a war the loss would distress us ex
tremely.
That an increafement of our shipping
beyond what is necessary for our importa
tions, would be injurious ; the surplus ne
ceflarily deduiSs from a capital which is
wanted for other purposes, and may be
more beneficially improved in the increase
of our manufactures and agriculture
Anexcefsof zeal to promote our com
merce and navigation, is more dangerous
than a deficiency.
That it is the interest of the landholder
that our trade should be free, and that fo
reign, as well as domestic vessels, should
be admitted to our wliarves, and permit
ted to receive our produce, for exporta
tion without reflraint.
That should additional duties be impof,
ed, difcriminatiort would be impolitic and
unjust ; the commerce of one nation
ought not to be encouraged to the detri
ment of another ; if there is no friendship
in trade, it does not follow there must be
enmity.
That in eftablilhing a commercial sys
tem and forming a decision on the fubjedt
now under the consideration of the com
mittee we should divert ourselves of poli
tical views, we ought not to fuffer our
resentments to influence us ; the feelings
excited by the consideration of the Indi
an war, the depredations of the Alge
rines, or the inexecution of the treaty of
peace, have nothing to do" with a fnbjeft
which refpe&s the regulation of our com
merce only- To obtain redress for any
political injuries we may have fuflained.re
courfe in the firft instance should be had
to peaceable negociations which would
probably prove effectual.
That the object of the present relblu
tions appears to be a commercial warfare,
which in all probability would be produc
tive of one far more serious.
That the expediency of forming any
commercial treaties may well be quettion
ed, they neceflarily connect us in the po
litics of Europe, a connexion which can
never be falutarv for America ; but if com
mercial treaties are formed, mutual tnttrcji
(hould be considered as the fundamental
principle.
That the refolutioni before us contain
only an affixation of aiding our naviga
tion, commerce, and manufa&urcs'; they
will in fact, prove detrimental to each of
them, by producing a temporary ftagna
tionatleaft, of the one, and unavoidable
embaraflments upon the other.
That high-duties, by augmenting the
prices of such goods as might be import
ed, would only operate as taxes and bur
thens against our own citizens, who are
theconfumers ; at the fame time answer
ing no valuable purposes to us with the
government of Great Britain, against
which they are profefledly pointed, nor of
fering any particular encouragement to
our own manufactures.
That the goodness of a market, i« to be
determined by the relative proportion of
the dearnefs or cheapness, of the articles
fold or purchased ; and that on a compa
rative view, the commercial system of G.
Britain is more favorable to us, than that
of any other foreign nation. With refpeft
to our exports (he is and ever has been,
a better cullomer than France, in the ra
tio of two to one.
That the reftriftionscomplained of were
in existence previous to our becoming an
independent nation ; they are in fa6i, a
part of her colonial establishment and Hill
operate only as they refpeft her colonial
dependencies.
That the industry of our citizens has
been, and is nourished by the aid of a fo
reign capital; for which credit is an ax
cellent substitute, so far from* being inju
rious it is highly beneficial, and, in the
present situation of our country, has a
happy effect in the promotion of (hip
building, manufactures, and agriculture :
admitting it was an evil, it is merely a
municipal regulation and altogether be
yond the controul of Congress.
That Great Britain is able to supply
us with such articles as we want, in great
abundance, and on better terms than any
other nation ; {he has it in her power, and
is willing to give us credit: the French,
cannot or will not do it.
That the influence of Britilh credit on
our public councils is chimerical j the fal
fity of the idea is apparent, by the part
taken and so ably supported by the rtf
pe&abie gentlemen, who rep-efent a part
of the United States, which has received
the molt extensive credit.
That (hould we be deprived of this ad
vantage, merchants of great capitals only
could trade. A monopoly by the wealthy,
would increase the prices of the articles
eonfumed, and the enterprize and induflry
of young men, who have need of credit,
would be checked and discouraged.
That the faith of the United States has
been heietofore pledged, appropriating
the monies raised by certain existing du
ties, to the discharging of public debt.' A.
system, like the one propofcd, tending to
the diminution of the amount of those du
ties, would be a breach of faith difgraceftil
as well as unjuftifiable.
That the conduct of France, as refpe&s
our commerce, our navigation and our
fiiheries, has uniformly evidenced a felfiih
policy ; and that we have no privileges to
boait of in consequence of our present ex
isting commercial treaty with that nation.
This, Mr. Chairman, is a summary view
of the principal arguments which have
been adduced on the one fide and on the
other of the important question before the
committee. Many ingenious calculation;,
observations, comparisons and documents,
fraught with information and tending to
elucidate the fubjee}, have been offered ;
I have listened with attention to the whole
of them, and, on a careful review it ap
pears to me that this is not the proper
time for us to introduce very eficntial al
terations in our commercial system—that,
be our wishes what they may respeCting
the issue of the present war in Europe,
neither duty or good policy will usf
to become parties. The ftricl principles
of neutrality ought to influence cur con
duit—that the measures proposed would
have a very bad tendency—that they would
produce great inconvenience to our reve
nues—a temporary to our'com
mcrce—a future augmentation of the (hac
kles under which it now labors—deprive
our fellow-citizens of enjoyments which
they have a right to poiTefs—rifrn indus
try from its natural channel, induce a ne
cefiity of land taxes'for the exigencies and
support of government, prove injurious to
public credit, be ruinous to our agricul
ture, and, in the present crisis might pre
cipitate us into a war : Evils which justice, humanity, true principles of patriot
ism, the duties of morality and the best
iiiterella of our country require us to de
precate, aud, if potiible avoid.
I have endeavored to examine and con
sider the fubjeit with candor. I have
formed mjr opinion upon serious delibera
tion ;-.nd feel an impression of duty when
the queftionTkallbc takcu, to vote againit
(he proportions.
(Debate to be continued.)
NEW-YORK, February 26.
A brig which left Bourdeax the 27th
Dec._ is arrived at this port. McffisTou
rons and other paflengers report, that at
their departure there was in the prisons
401- yooo persons, and that the guillotine
was in conitant action—that the Mayor
and two officers of the municipality were
the iirft victims—that a seal was put on
the houses of all the merchants, and it
was believed that this measure would be ta
ken in all the commercial towns in I''ranee
—in each of the houses under seal, four
Sans Culottes are quartered at four Francs
each per day.
M. Raba has already been forced to
pay a voluntary contribution of 500,000
livres, and it is expedted that Meiiers. Bo
iiafe will be taxed one million.
For a long time the inhabitants have
been at eight ounces of bread per day. It
was without question that another naval
force would fail for this part of the world
to convoy the (hipping of St. Domingo,
which had taken refuge here'.
They were allured that the Commerce
of -Nantes had prop*fed to the Conven
tion to fell the colonial produce with
which those veflels are loaded, and to re
place their cargoes with grain and flour.
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 3.
The following is the resolution See.
which passed the House of Reprefcnta
tives of the United States, on the 24th
lilt, refpefting the Treasury Department.
Refclved, That a committee be appoint
ed, to examine the state of the treasury
department, and that they be inftru&ed
to report to the House, generally thereon,
and among'other tilings more particularly:
id. Whether the form of keeping the
accounts be calculated to effedhiate the
dispositions of the public monies, as pre
fctibed by law.
2d. Whether the cafli receipts, from the
domestic resources, have exceeded, equal
ed, or fallen fliort of the domestic cash
expenditures, from the establishment of
the government, to the firft day of Janu
ary, one thousand seven hundred and nine
ty-four, remarking the dates and amounts
of any excess, or deficiency, quarterly.
3d. Whether the finking fund, at the
time of its establishment, consisted of cash
or bonds; fpecifying hi the latter cafe, as
nearly as may be, the several dates, at
which any funi or sums of such bonds be
came payable.
4th. What proceedings have been had
under the laws of {he fourth and twelfth
of Aug lift, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety, authorizing loans of money,
and what authorities weie given for !hole
proceedings: That they also ttate, in dol
• lars and cents, the grcfs principal of debt
in Holland, produced to the United States,
by the said loans, and the ptecife amount
of the principal of the foreign debt, which
has been discharged thereby : what porti
on of such loans has been drawn to the
United States, at what dates, and by what
authority; in what manner such drafts
have been applied ; under what forms and
checks those drafts were made, and whe
ther the monies raised thereby, were im
mediately deposited in the treasury; if not,
what places, and to what amount, were
such monies deposited ; how much time
elapsed after such loans, before the said
monies came into the treasury ; whether
a complete fulfilment of our engagements
to France, was, in any degree, obviated
by such drafts : whether any portion of
the French debt remained unpaid, at the
end of one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-two ; and whether any balance of
the said debt is yet unpaid : And that the
committee do also report the date of the
firft information to this House, communi
lating the said drafts; and whether any
call of the House was made upon the trea
sury department, which embraced the idea
of a previous disclosure thereof.
sth. That the committee be also in
ftru&cd to report the whole amount of
the exiting debt of the United. States, dlf
criminatieg the dorreitic from the foreign
debt, and fpscifying the arroupt of do
mestic debt, bearing a prefect interest of
fix per centum ; the aniotmnt bearing a
present interest of three per cent, and "the
amount deferred : That they also report
the increafc or drcreafe of the whole debt
of the United Spates, and the operation
of the finking fund, to the end of the year
one thousand seven hundred and ninety
three.
Ordered.,
That Mr. Baldwin, Mr. Hunter, Mr.
M'Dowell, Mr. Giles, Mr. Greenup, Mr.
Dent, Mr. Latimer, Mr. Irvine, Mr.Beat
ty, Mr. Van Cortlandt, Mr. Niles, Mr.
Swift, Mr. Malbone, Mr. Coffin, and
Mr. Wingate, be a committee, pursuant
to the said resolution.
THEATRICALS.
[The following was not received in season
for Saturday's Gazette.]
OBSERVER—N°. V,
LAST evening, at the New Theatre,
were exhibited to a cronded and brilliant
audience, the JEALOUS WIFE, and
the LIAR. The Obfervcr accidentally
overheard a gentleman and lady remarking
upon the players, and from some emphatic
words, was induced to listen to their dis
course. The gentleman with much fang
fro':d, observed upon one and another—
This is not a Yates, a Palmer, a Wrighten,
a Kemble, a Henderfon, or a Siddons.
The lady told him Mrs. Whttlock was fil
ter to Mrs. Siddons—Egad, fays the gen
tleman, is this the famous Mrs. Wh'tlloci ?
why (he has not a feachure of Mrs. Siddons ;
damme but Mrs. Siddons petrifies the au
dience ; why this woman, why (he has no
eyes, no face, no killing tout cnjcmble, no
true ban ton about her : pfliaw ! only fit
for boor 6 and bumkins. The gentleman,
as the Observer supposes, had, or pretend
ed he had, an acquaintance with European
Theatres and a£tors ; for upon a queition
from the lady, whether Mrs. Siddons ever
a fled in comedy he said yes, he had of
ten feert her in comedy, it was her forte,
(he drew cror.ded audiences in the charac
ter of Bchidera, in Venice Preferred, and
many other of the belt comedies fh the
Englifli language. The lady observed,
that Venice Preferred was a tragedy : No,
no, said he, Venice Preferred is a tragical
plot, but that plot was discovered, and
saved the State, and so all turned out
well—egad that makes it a comedy.
Of Mrs. Francis, in Harriet, he said,
why fne does not top her part at all :
damme, I like to fee all the characters on
fire ; that's the bon ton. Similar observa
tions and sentiments he exprefled upon all
the exhibition ; the music was a bore, and
even the Theatre itfelf was as gloomy as a
Dutch funeral.
Refletting upon the opinions of this
Standard of Tojlc, the Observer began to
feel drongly induced to pity thefc poor
Players, who had taken so much pains, to
gratify and improve us, and at the fame
time to obtain the means of an honelt liv
ing for themselves ; for if these lentiments
become general, he said to himfelf, the
Theatre mud be (hut.
Some such ideas mull have occurred to
the lady, as (he observed to the gentleman,
" Why, teally Sir, I think you are too
hard upon thefc people, for if yourfenti
ments spread, you will undo them ; and
if they are not good Players, they are
said to be honett, good chara&ers—and
deserve not severe treatment." Egad,
said the gentleman, I do not know that
—chiefly call off, I believe, from the
Theatres in England—and as to charac
ter, damme, if I believe any of them have
too good characters.
This brought to the Observer's recol
lection, a pafiage in his favorite author
jEfchylus:—
"'I his is the (late of man! In prosperous for-
tune,
" A shadow, pafling light, throws to the
ground
" Joys, baiclels fabric : In adversity
" Comes Malice, with a fpunge, moistened
in gall,
" And wipes each beauteous character away."
The Obfervcr, is in justice bound to
add, that since then, he has obtained in
formation from indisputable authority, that
this company of players, are persons of ir
reproachable chara&ers, as men and wo
men ; and as performers, many of them
have not left superiors, and forne jnot equals,
in Europe.—The persons who are now on
the stage in England, the Obferyer only
knows, by hearsay; of the former actors
he had some knowledge ; and would just
mention to modern travellers, that he will
dete& their ignorance, and punish their
insolence, whenever their empty sculls,
flu'll attempt to use " the Jpungc moijlened
•with gall." This will only apply to a*
certain class of modern travellers, and let
such be cautious, as the Observer will
handle them without mittens.
Mrs. IVhitloci's articulation, is so per
fjdtly just, her face, her eye, and indeed
her whole attitude and gesticulation, come
f > near the model the observer had figu
red to himfelf for an adlrrfs, that he mud
do a violence to his own feelings, not to
declare, that altbo' Ihe may not be equal
to Mrs. Siddons, yet (he is so equal to
any expectations, we have entertained in
America, that the fealt of feeing and
hearing her on the ftagt, the Observer
hopes will frequently be repeated.
Mrs. Francis, in the part of Harriet,
was reserved, shewed little action or ani
mation, this the Observer, heard faulted
by many—but he ventures to aflert, that
nature, was much better exhibited, in that
th%n it could have been by more anima
tion. In the Obferrer's opinion, Mrs.
Francis, acted; what the author meant by
the character of Harriet; and in the cha
racter of Miss Grantham, she certainly
evinced her accurate knowledge of the
author's meaning, and there, put on ani-
mation enough.
The Observer presents his moll refpedt
ful compliments to the Ladies who attend
the Theatre, and begs them to take no
tice of Mrs. JVhitlock and Mrs. Francis,
when they speak a sentence, mark their
modulation, their accent, and, as occasion
offers, endeavor to form their own pro
nunciation ; this will be adding profit, to
amulement, and the price of their tickets,
instead of producing a talent, proper to
be hid in a napkin, will produce a ufeful
haneft of an hundred fold.
March I ft, 1794.
Captain Vanlife is arrived here from
Martinique, in a short passage—We hear
he brings accounts of a large number of
American vefiels being there—that pro
visions were plenty, and the force on the
Island so refpeftable as to be under no
apprehcnfion of the English.
The consideration of Mr. Madison's
Resolutions was this day postponed to
Monday next.
We are informed the embargo in France
on American veflels is taken off.
BOSTON, February 22,
We are happy at all times to give cir
culation to intelligence, in which honora
ble notice is taken of our countrymen. In
a late London paper, mention is made,
that the Grand Majlcr of Malta, hat
eftablilhed in his principal city, a magnifi
cent AJlronomical Observatory—to which
he had invited the most celebrated Astro
nomers of Europe. " Of the apparatus,"
fajs the account, " is an Orrery, of the
invention and conftruftion of the celebra
ted and ingenious American, Mr. Joseph
Pope."
The gall of bittcrnefs lately poured out
on the Massachusetts members in Congress
is but the dregs of the old phial. For fix
years Meflrs. Ames, Goodhue, Sedg
wick, &c. &c. have been the theme of
calumny; butat three feveraleleftions when
the '« VOICE OF THE PEOPLE"
is most emphatically pronounced, we have
seen them honoured with the increasing
fuffrages of their fellow citizens, as the
reward of their independence and patrio
tism. They know, that from them their
conflituents ftili expect a continuation of
that conduit: They bid them be unmov
ed by the clamour of competitors, and
unshaken by the arts of those who would
difTolve the Union, destroy justice, intro
duce domestic infelicity, and entail on
their country the horrors of an unnecessary
foieign war !
COMMUNICATION.
The Funding System of the United
States, has long been the stalking horCe
of the antitederal scribblers. But though
the Legislature of this Commonwealth
have recently pafled a Funding Law pre
dicated on cxaßly the fame rate of interejl,
and totally excluding every' idea of
difcrimirtaticn, not one solitary word of
complaint is uttered. The fame may
be said of the Bank of the United States.
It has been thundered in our ears as perni
cious, as dtftru&ive of liberty, &c. yet
we fee Banks daily established by.the State
governments, and from the pen of censure
not one drop of ink has been (hed. Think
ye, the public doth not discern tliefe things ?
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING, March 3,
VVi'l be perfoi med,
A COMEDT, called the
Schoolfor Scandal.
Sir Peter Teazle, Mr. Bates.
Sir Oliver Surface, Mr. Morris.
Joseph Surface, Mr. WigneU.
Charles Surface, Mr. Chalmers.
Sir Benj. Backbite, Mr. Finch.
Crabtree, Mr. Harwood.
Careless (with afotig) Mr. Marlhall.
Rowley, Mr. Warrell.
Moses, Mr. Francis.
Snake, Mr. Green.
Trip, Mr. Moreton,
Lady Teazle,
Lady Sneerwell,
Mrs. Candour,
Maria,
At the end of the Comedy, a new Comic
DANCE, composed by Mr. Francis,
called
The Scheming Clown,
Or, the Sport/man Deceived.
By Mr. Francis, Mr. Darley, jun. and
Mrs. De Marque.
To which will be added,
A COMIC OPERA, called
The Poor Soldier.
With the original Overture and accom
paniments.
Capt. Fitzroy, Mr. Darley.
Father Luke, Mr. Finch.
Dermot, Mr. Darley, jun.
Patrick, Mr. Moreton.
Darby, Mr. Wignell.
Bagatelle (with a
song in charaSer) .Mr. Marlhall.
Boy, Matter J. Warrell.
Norah, Miss Broadhurft.
Kathleen, Miss Willems.
Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarters
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.
,%* As inconveniencies to the public have
arisen from the Box-book being opened on the
days of performance only, in future attend
ance will be given at the office in the Theatre
every day from ten till one, and on the days
of performance from ten till three o'clock in
the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, it is
refpetffully requested, may be addressed to
Mr. Franklin, at the Box-G(nce.
The Doors will be opened at 5 o'clock,
and the performances begin at 6 o'clock pre
cifcly.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to
fend their fervar.ts to keep places, at half an
hour pad 4 o'clock, and to order them to
withdraw, as soon as the company are seated,
as they cannot on any account be permitted
to remain in the boxes, nor any places kept
after the firft adl.
N. B. No money or tickets to be returned,
nor any person admitted on any account
whatever behind the scenes.
The managers request, to prevent confu
fion, servants may be ordered to set down and
take up with the horses' heads towards the
Schuylkill, and drive off by Seventh-street.
Pi-vat Refpublica.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. Rice,
No. 50, High-Street,
( Price One Dollar)
The Gentleman's
Pocket Library.
CONTAINING,
I. The Principles of Politeness.
i. The Economy of Human Life.
3. Rochefoucauld's Moral Reflexions.
4«Lavater's Aphorisms on Man.
5. The Polite Philosopher.
6. The way to Wealth, by Dr. Pfinkiin.
7. Seleit Sentences.
8. Detached Sentences.
9. Old Italian, Spanish and English Pro
verbs.
10. A Tablet of Memory.
March 3. ' 4 t
AVIS.
LE habitant infortune* dc la Coionie Franpife
de Si. Dominguc qui dans I'inccndic da
C<»p font vnu» chcrchcr un afilc d?n» Jes Etats
Unit (but tiiformes que la Republiquc leur ac
co'de un paftage pour France, lis font invites
cn conlcqutnce a fc prefrnicr a c«*i cffct d'in a
huit j«>uis chcr les Consuls Se a gene de la Re
puM que dan* Irs differ nts Pons des tnuUnu.
A Philadelphia le 10 Vcn<o*_i'an »4
la Republiquc Franpife unc & indivifibic:
(*8 Fcvrier, 1794. vteucftifg) '
Le- Miniftre dc la KtpuU«o«
*
JH. FAVCHET.
The editors of new/papers tn the United dta/et gre
icquejlcd to inftrt tit abevt nctice in their paper. 8:
Mrs. Morris.
Mrs. Francis.
Mrs. Shaw.
Mrs. Cleveland.JAMES LEACH,
RtsPECTU'LLY inform! his friends an<J
the public, Tl.Jt from ihe encouraßtmcnt
he has ieeeiv< d, from fcveral iefpc£l»bl( Gentle
men, he is induced once more, lotmwk >n the
PAPER LI N K—and would offei Ins fovicd lo
all :hofe Gentlemen, who CM p'ace confidence
i„ him ;a1 id h affurrs (holt who employ him,
thr Mi 1' confidence (hall not he nnlplacw ; —
but Jt'.llntl be his cotijlant endeavor. to p»|' 'he
(ImAi II loft inftuft, in all ne
goeialions wha'eV' r. He has taken 'he Chamber,
in s:dtf-Str<tt, ovrr Mr. Djaviii Fawn/end, \Vatcb
Make-'. Shop. W'.ere PUBLIC SKCURI-
TltS, ol all fc'uus, are bought and fold ; and
» lien Coin." in..n Business ol all kinds, will be
lianf f-ted on tealonnhje lirms. HOUSKSand
VKSSI'.I.S will be conliantly exposed lor fait, on
cofMi^illiiu'i.
paid for Salem, Providence, and
P->?ifoionih BILi S.
N. 11. If <iwv GevfUman in Philadelphia, or
A'Vr: - Yet k, has tn\ Bujinefi to Iran fad at 80/hv,
in Paper Negociutions, he tutlj be happy t$ he em
p/o\eJ 0 - comm'/fion.
Rofton, Jan. 24, 1794.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nth day of April next,
at the hotife of John Thomson, in Perth-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY
r | i,oi coat* IHi eleven actis, on which is
1 an oichard o< g'ifted apple t'*e«, a well of
e*cclltn« water, a large (lone t ftfin, and a »m
c >iniHodi< us"fta'oVc and roach-house, and a gre»t
q i.riniy of the bolt building ftoncs in th? walls
o the houfi', which was formerly built for the
reOdcnce of the Governors of N<w-Ji rfey. The
fnu.i'io,. «»f this Lot is 1J well- known 'or us
he •" h'nrfs and beautiful profprft of (he Rariion
ri- er to the welt of the bav, and Sandy-Hook to
the c. if, that a further defciiption isunn ceffiry.
The renditions of laic will be, one third of the
p...chafe money to be paid on the full day of
M..y when a good and futfrci- n? Deed will
be given to thi puichaftr, by Waltir Ru
th ir fur », Esq. Pt cftdent of the Board of
pi oorietoi s of the Eastern Division of New-
J. - fry, «ud the remaining twothiids fatisfafto
rily (ecured in f qual annual payments.
By order of the Boar;!,
JAMES PARKER, Register.
Perth-Ambo*, February 5, 1794. 2awam
War Department.
January 30tb 1794.
INFORMATION is hcieby given to all the
military invalids of the United States,that the
fuin« 10 which they are entitled (oi fix months
of [he'T annual penlinn, from the founh day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on 'he yh day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said dav by the Commifwoiic;* of the Loans
within the states refpeflively, under the nfual re-
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
mull be acconvpanud with legal evidence of
tliej'r refoeftive offices, and alfn of the time the
invalids died, whofr pension they may claim.
By command of thr Prrfident
of the United vSiaics,
H. KNOX,
Secretary oj IVar.
(£3T The printers in the refpc&tve states are
rcqncfted topubhfathe abwein their newfpa
pci- !or the fpiceot two months,
January 30
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE. BY
M.Carey,No. \\Z,High-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
SuBjECTSt tvhich are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense in the world.
TH IS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all claffcs of people, merchants, me
chanic* and farmers. Such a reputation has this
work acquired, that it has pa fled thro ihree im
prcffjon# in the eastern dates, and many houle
hoiders deem «t so ufcful as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theii families.——Pr 1 c e is.
Frhruarv 4. dtl
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the subscriber has been duly ap
pointed Administratrix on the estate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston,- 'in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and |
has taken upon herl'elf that trnft, by giving
bonds as the law dire&s—and all persons in
terested, are defircd to take notice accord
iugiy.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
B««en,N»T. 13, 1793-
Take Notice.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the Eftatr of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, E'q. dcceafed, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subscriber, Attorney
to the Administratrix of (aid Estate : And all
peribns who stand indebted to fai«f Estate, are
rtoifrfted to fettle with him immediately} as the
A<4 -of Limitation of Anions, which is to take
place on the firftday of December next, will
other wife render itneceflary for him to com
mence suits agamft them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Bofton,Nov. »3, 1793*
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monweafth, are requrfted to insert this in their
refpeftive newspapers, and forward their ac
counts for the fame, to J. M.
N ORRIS-COURT,
Back of the New Ltbraty, between Chefnut
and Walnut-Streets,
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friend* and
the public iii general, that he coniiuues
carrying on the,bnfiQ©f< of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL ATES,
far doors or wiudow-ftiutters,donfc in the raoft
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
Just Imported,
From London, Dublin anil Gi.ascoit,
Awd now opening for 'nle, by
MATHEW CAREY,
/It No. 118, Market Jlreet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION or BOOKS,
Among which are the -following
NEW Annual Ilegilter for 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and lpirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Jolt
Memty,a collection of eiTays
Varieof Pruflia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintofti
RufTell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extra&s, superbly gilt
Elagant extra&s of natural history
Saugnier and Briflon's vorage
Rochon's voyage to Madagafear
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerusalem delivered
Suiellie's trauflation of Buffon
Berwick'* hiilory of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's di&ionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to palite literature.
dfcfcription of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preftou on masonry
Lavater 011 physiognomy, abridged
Zimraemtan's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive po>ver
Kifles of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downinan's infancy
Adair's history of Anierican Indians
Benington on materiaiifm and immaterialifni
IjJerchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De tfon's travels
Franklin's life and works '
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitns
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols?
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's Iketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion*, or the history ot Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse di<slionary
Rereries of foKtude
Smith's theory of moral fentimentt
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. &: Illd.
Wonders of nature apd art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little wjorld, called
man
Wallit on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,
Cox's travals into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical di&ionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&icc of mid
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
A,rmftrong on diseases of children
£)uincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatiie or fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
" Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica '
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind.cn the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's diflertations
London practice of physic
Bell's fnrgery
Cbaptal's chemistry.
dim
FOR SJLE,
Br MATHF.W CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street,
An EiTay on Slavery:
Dcfigned to exhibit in a new point of view,
its cffc&s 011 morals, and the peace of
ociety. Some la&s and calculations are offered
to prove thp labor of freemen to be much more
produdive than that ot Jlaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the nrceflary conclusion, that
flavfry is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cents.
February 15,
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b«gs leave to of
fcr his feivicesto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the uiraoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United State.*, will be ftrittly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
Philadelphia, February 13, 1794.
PROPOSALS
For printing by Subscription,
A Work, to be entitled,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Ptnnfylvania State Trials.
THE want of fufficient information of the
state trials of Gieat-Britain in the early
periods of that government is now lamented :
Hi herto there hath been one trial in the
state of Pennsylvania on impeachment : —and
herealfo it is to be regretted, that, being neg r
letted at the time, the public are now left with
out fufficient information on the fubjeft of that
trial, it is however in this work designed to ref
cuefwhat can be collefled thereof from sources
of indifputaple authority, so that the fame shall
be preserved from oblivion.
Another impeachment and the second is now
depending. An officer is charged by the late
House of Reprefentattves, who hath for many
yeari been largely confided in by this state, and
hath long been at the head of the financial de
partment of the fame, and it imports the citi
zens to know hisconduft, and thecircumftanccs
which may be brought foiward on his trial.
In this work the Editor will be careful to
state the fads, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers before
the public.—With this view—
The following Terms are refpefifully
fuhmitted to the Public :
I. The Work shall be printed iu octavo, with a
good type, on fine paper, and delivered to
fubfcribera at the refpe&ive places where the
fnbfcriptions are taken in, as soon as the work
shall be compleated.
11. As no conje&ure can well be made, as to
the length ®f the present trial, the fire of the
volume cannot be afcertaiued at this time—
But the price (hall not exceed that of fomeof
the latest publications in this city.
111. It will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental circumstances that may occur during
the trial of John Nicholfon, Esquire, Comp
troller-General of this commonwealth, with
thearguments of counsel oa both fides, together
with the articles of impeachment, and the
pleas and replications at large, the several re
solutions of the two branches of the state Le
gislature, refpe&ing this impeachment, and
the final decision of the SENATE refpedting
that officer.
To which will be prefixed, as much as can be
collected from authentic documents, of the im
peachment, trial, and aequital of the late Francis
Hopkinfon, Esquire, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty for the state of Pennsylvania, during
the late war, never before pnblifbed.
No money will be required before the deli
very of the book.
Subscriptions will be received by Francis
Bailey, No. ti6, High-street; Wrigley and Ber
riman, No. 149, Chefnut-ftreet, and by the dif
ferent booksellers in this city; Jacob Bailey,
Lancaster ; Yundt and Patton, Baltimore, and
by the Editor.
EDMUND HOGAN.
N. B. The pricc will be enhanced to non
fwbfcribers. Feb. 18. taw if
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON the 31ft of last month, the fubferihtr ad
drcfleii a letter to MiflVs. Thomas Pcarjall
Z3 Son, merchants in New-York, and incloftd
therein a bank note, No. 445, for twenty dol
lars ; one ditto, No. 151, tor thirty dollars;
and one ditto, No. 3,866, for twenty dollars.
-—He also add re {Ted a letter to Mr. Gilbert
Saltonjlall, merchant in New-York, inclosing a
bank bill, No. 148, for fif:y dollars, indoiled
on the back thereof in these words— ,4 Pa> the
within to Mr. Gilbert Saltonjlall—lbtn. Hunting
ton."—'He also addrefled a letter to Mcffis. White
& Wardell, merchants in New-Yoik, and inclo
sed a bank bill for ten dollars, and a draft in fa
vor of said White & Wardell, which letters were
put in the Poll-Office on said 31ft January, to
be foi warded to New-York ; But by letters re
ceived from the Gentlemen to whom they were
severally addrefled, the money was robbed
from each letter betore delivery.
The Public are requeued to endeavor a dc"
te&ion of the Villains who committed the above
robbery. The bill indorsed, I think was a York
bank bill, and some others, one or more was
of the United States bank, remitted at Philadel
phia. Any person discovering the Thief, and
returning the Money, (hall be entitled to fifty
dollars reward.
EBEN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, 14th Feb. 1794. gwgtaw
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raifc 39,900 Dollars, on 266,003
Dollars, deducting 15 per Cent, from
the Prix.es—this Lottery confijls of
3-8,000 Tickets, in which there art
14,539 Prizes and .23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Directors of the Society for eftabiiftiing
Ufeful Manufa&ures, having resolved to
ere& LOTTERIES for raifwg On 1 Hundred
Thousand Dollars, agreeably to *n Ast of
the Lcgiflature of the State of New-Jersey, hive
appointed the following persons to fupcrintend
and direst the drawing el the fame, vie. Nicho
las Low, Rufus King, Herman Le Roy, James
Watson, Richard Harrifon, Abijih Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city of New-York—
Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew Bayard, of the city of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
Elias Boudioot, General Elias Dayton, James
Parker, John Bayard, Doctor Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton, Jolhua M, Wallace, Joseph
Blpomfield, and Eliiha Boudinot, of Nvw-Jerr
fey, who offer the following Scheme of a Lot
tery, and pledge themselves to the public, that
they will take every aflurance and precaution in >
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, frorp time to time, as received, into
the Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for the purpofeof paying Prix s, which
(hall be immediately discharged by a check
upon one of the Banks.
SCHEME
l Prize of 20,000 Dollar* it 20,00®
1
2
5
10
20
ico
300
1000
ie,ooo
5,000
2,000
i,coo
500
100
5°
20
12
IO
2000
3000
8100
14,539 262,000
23,461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Laftdrawq number, a,009
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
The drawing will commence, under the in
fpe&ioqof a Committee of the Superintendant*,
as loon as the Tickets are fold* of which timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendants have appoinred John N.
Cutnming, of Newark, Jacob R. Hrjrdenbcig,
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, ot
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample fccurity for difcbargiug the
trust reposed in them.
03" In order to feenrethe punctual payment
of the Prizes, the Superintendants of the Lottery
have directed that the Managers (hall earh enter
into boodsin 40,000 dollars, with four futlicient
fecuriiits, to peifonn their inftru&ions, the sub
stance of which is
I. That whenever either o? the Managers
shall receive the sum of Three Husdred Dollar*,
he (hall immdiatcly place the lame in on* of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit of the Governor of the Society, and such
of the Superintendants as live in the city where
the raonie* are placcd* to remain there until the
Lottery is dra\yn, for the payment of the Prize*.
11. The Managers to take fufficient iecurity
for any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
refponnble for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ft»afts of which (hall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle
men, information will be give* where tickets
may be had.
February 24,
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —also a Country Sea.t
within 6 miles of the City, with9acresof
land, or 42 acres of Jand and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in i\?.e or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Poundi
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
Proposals having been publijhed lajl
autumn, for continuing the Gazette of the
United States as an half *weekly paper, in
conjunction with a daily paper, frequent ap
plications ( pcflage unpaid) are made by per
font at a dijlance for the former —but as the
terms proposed on that ouafion. were not com
plied withy the plan of an half weekly paper
is relinquijhed.
C 3* As the Editor has repeatedly been
fubjectcd to pojlage on the Letters of persons %
who have in that way applied to purchnfe
the Fount of Long Primer which he has
for sale —those who wi/h to buy those types <,
are informed that the price is twenty cents
per pound, cash—to be paid at their (Ulivc
ry—the fount weighs about 250 ft,.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3/
South Fourth-Street.
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
1«,OOO
10,000
I£,ooo
20,000
30,000
36,000
81,000
tawjf.
m&th—l("