Ofßcttf of (fit Jpfates
evening adve
[No. 90 of Vol. V.]
American Brig
JESaK-T R I T O N,
BURTHEN 700 barrels, with her tackle
and apparel as (he came from sea, She is a
flaunch veficl, not two years old, and may be
put to .sea immediately. For terms apply
to
GARDINER fcf OLDEN,
Arch Street wharf,
IVho have for fale y
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
a quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and a few
caflcs Timothy Seed —also
Pig and Bar Iron, and Iron cart
ings, in any form executed on the
shortest notice.
March 14.
For Amsterdam,
The new fail-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
■Igm ADRIAN A
K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or paflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, -or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
(An American bottom)
<— John Moorey Majler.
IS a ft out good veflel, about two years old,
burthen 232 tons, has only made three voy
ages, and may be sent to sea at a small ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
a«id the terms made known by application to
WHARTON'd LEWIS.
dtf
"March it
Treasury ofPENNs yl van la,
February 14, 1794.
PUBLIC Notice is heieby given to all persons
indebted to the Commonwealth, tor monies
borrowed of the Trustees of the Loan Office,
eftablilhed per att of the 4th of April, 1785,
that the time is expired when the last payment
(hould have been made, and every judicable
indulgence having been granted, That unless
they come forward and pay off their refpe&ive
balances on or before the firft day of April next,
preempts will issue againd all delinquents with
out regard to persons or circuroftances. All
former and existing (heriffs, who have money
their hands belonging to said Office, are re
quested to bring it to me on or before the above
period, otherwise I shall be under the disagree
able neceflity of prol'ecoting them without dif
ttnaion.
CHRISTIAN FEBIGER.
P. S. The Printers throughout the State are
requested to inlert the above in their papers for
the information of their fell'ow-ciiizens. d
WHEREAS an alias fubpaena has iflued
out of the Supreme Court of this Com
monwealth, at the suit of Margaret Evans,
ttpona petition preferred by the said Marc a.
ret, praying for a Divorce from the bonds o-
Matrimouy, entered into wich Robert E v a Nsf
Thii is togivcnotice to the said Robert, that
he be and appear at the said Supreme Court, to
be held at the City of Philadelphia on Monday
the seventh day of April next, at the State-House
in the said City, to answer the matters alledged
in the said petition.
Wm. CHAPMAN,
Sheriff of Bucks County.
March 5, 1794.
— To Evans.
Department of state,
March ai, 1794.
HAVING received an inftruftion ftoin the
President of the United States, to prepare,
in pursuance of my letter to him of the 2d
of March 1794, statements and reprefenta
tions on the several cases of vexation and spo
liation of our commerce ; I must r»queft all
perlons interested, to whom it may be conve
nient, to call upon me in the city ot Philadel
phia ; in order that I may arrange with them
the proofs and papers necefTary on the occa
sion. Those to whom it may be inconvenient
trom the distance of their residence to call
upon me will receive thro* the mail, informa
tion of such things, as may be deficient in
tbeir refpeflive cfaims.
Edmond Randolph.
The Printers in the fe»eral dates are de
sired to publisH the foregoing notice,
March 24. | d 3 t
IMPORTED
In the Brig George and Harriot, from
Havre de Grace,
and for sale by
Louis Ojmont y
A PERFECT
Afiortment of Hanging Paper,
high coloured and plain.
White silk Stockings, high drrfled and put
up English f«ftiion.
The handsomest artificial Flowers and Fea
thers.
Some Looking Glass Plates to be fold by the
cafe.
A few hampers of Champaigne wfte fix
years old.
An elegant parcel of
Bearikin Muffs,
*diot
And very beautiful Silk Clonks, which on
account of* the season will be fold low, and at
a long credit.
42 pipes Madeira wine,
and a few calks of Clartt.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
He will have for sale,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn hats, fans and cambricks, claret in
cases, a quantity of window glass well Port
ed of ail iize-;, and a tew pair of remarkable
Looking Glafles framed, all arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
March 22
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz,
GIN in pipe S-,
A Jew bales Holland Duck»
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
jlaJ's IVari'y viz. Tumblers and Mugs,'va
rious fixes.
Sheathing Paper,
Q c ,
Swedes Iron, /qua re and flat bars,
Jfair Ribband, iVo. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
quantity of Junk and Oakum,
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
thouldapplication be made within a few dap ;
otherwise Jhe will take freight for Amjler
dam.
March I, 1794.
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public, That from the encouragement
he has received, from several refpe&able Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his services to
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidenc
in him ; and he afTurcs those who employ him,
that their confidence shall not be misplaced
but it (hall be his constant endeavor, to pay the
ftrifteft attention to their best interest, inall ne
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber
in State-Street, over Mr. David Town fend, Watch
Makci's Shop. Vhcre PUBLICSECURI
TIES, of aH kinds, are bought and (old ; and
wheie Commiflion Business of all kinds, will be
tranla&ed on reasonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be constantly exposed for faie, on
commiflion.
* # * Cash paid for Salem, Providence, and
PoTifmouih BILLS.
*iaw4w
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York, has any Bufine/s to tranfad at Bojlon,
in Paper Negociations, he atill be happy to be em
ployed, on commijfion.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794.
A RECOMPENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby offered by the President and Direc
tors of the Bank of the United States, to any
person who (hall, on or before the full day of
May next, produce to them such a plan and ele
vation of a Banking House, as (hall be approved
of by them.—A plain, yet handsome front is
desired : The whole building is to be substantial
and commodious with as much space around it,
as the size of the ground will admit.
The Lot on which the building is to be erefl
ed, is fitnated on the weft fide of Third street,
between Chefnut and Walnut ft,eets in Philadel
phia ; and its demenfions are i lo feet on Third
ftrect, and about 100 feet westward.
THOMAS WILLING, President.
AND
Thursday, March 27, 1794-
ALSO,
LIKEWISE
d^tf
mw&ftf
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased,
TheHoufe N°. 245,
AND
Lot of Ground
On which it stands, wherein James Biddle
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
street, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet 10 inches in
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold fub
jedfc to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their fuccefiors
forever. For terms apply to
Samuel Coates,
Jonathan Jones,
Anthony Morris,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, dec'd.
*eop 3W
March i, 1794,
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegantHoufe,
and Lot of Ground,
TN an eligible (ituation,-—alio a Country Scat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of Jand and meadow, the
H °use is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23,
Henry Rape State of Maryland.
v ' ./High Court of Chancery,
BenjaminGaither > March sth. 1794.
and V
Basil Gaither
The Complainant dates
in his bill that the defendants Benjamin Gai
tlier and Bali! Gaitber were seized in fee as
tenants in common of a tract of land in Fie
derick County, called Hammond's Strife
that being so seised, Basil executed a power
qf attorney to Benjamin authorizing him to
fell his, the said Basil's intcreft in the fa d
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin fold
the laid land to a cei rain William Gaither for
the consideration of fik hundred pounds Wihicb
hath been since paid, that the said William
hath afligned to the Complainant Henry Rape
the bond executed by the said Benjamin for
the conveyance of t.ie said land : The Com
plainant now further states (ar.d so appears
to the Chancellor) that the defendants are
non-refideuts of the lfcate of Maryland, and
herefore out of the reach of the process of
this court.
It is therefore adjudged aad ordered, that
the Complainant procure a copy of this or
der to be inserted in the newspaper of Angell
and Sul ivan, and in the United States Gazet e
at least three weeks successively, before the
twentieth day of May next ; to the intent
tllac the Defendants and all others, who may
conceive themselves interested in the premis
es, may have notice to appear in this court,
on or before the third Tucfday in September
next, to (hew cause wherefore a decree should
not pass for veftmg iii the Complainant
plete legal title to th 6 land aforefaid.
Test,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. Con.
tuth&s3w
March 18.
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Maiket-Strcet,
An EfTay on Slavery*
Designed to exhibit in a new point of view,
its effects on morals, indujlry, and the peace of
society. Some fact* and calculation! are offered
to prove the labor offrccihcn to be much more
productive than that ot Jlavcs ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the nrccffary conclusion, that
slavery is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cents.
February 15. dtf
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, yAPANN'D
PLATES, £Stc.
Done in the moll elegant manner, and after
the firft mailers i likewifc,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finifhed at the (horteft notice, by
GEORGE Rl/TTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walhut,
Fourth and Fifth streets.
March 4.
March 4.
R T I S E R.
[Whole No. 549.]
Congrefi of the United States.
Tuesday, March iB, 1794.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk :
" Mr. Preiident, The House of Re
presentatives agree to the amendments of
the Senate, to the bill, entitled, " An ast
making further provision for the expenses
attending the intercourse of the United
States with foreign nations ; and further
to continue in force the act, entitled, " An
ast providing the means of intercourse be
tween the United States and foreign nati
ons"—And he withdrew.
Mr. Vining reported from the commit
tee on enrolled bills that they had ex
amined the bill, entitled, " An ast to
provide for the defence of certain port#
and harbors in the United States', —and
the enrolled bill, entitled, "An ast
making further provision for the expenses
attending the intercourse of the United
States with foreign nations ; and further
to continue in force the ast, entitled, " An
ast providing the means of intercourse be
tween the United States and foreign na
tions," and that they were duly enrolled.
Mr. King from the committee appoint
ed to confiderthe bill, sent from the House
of Representatives for concurrence, ei.ti
tled, " An ast making appropriations for
the support of the military eftablilhment of
the United States, for the year one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety four," re
ported the bill without amendment.
m&th—tt
Ordered, That this bill pal's to the third
reading.
A motion was made and seconded, that
it be
Resolved, That a committee be ap
pointed to examine into and report on the
practicability of obtaining statements of
the principles on which the accounts of
the individual states with the United States
have been fettled, and a ltatement of the
several credits allowed in the said settle
ment.
Ordered, That this motion lie for con
sideration.
Mr. Langdon from the committee ap
pointed to consider the bill, sent from the
House of Representatives for concurrence,
entitled, " an ast to provide a naval arma
ment" reported amendments, which were
in part adopted.
Ordered, That this bill pass to a third
reading.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk :
" Mr. President—The House of Re
presentatives have passed a bill entitled,
" an ast to provide for the erecting and
repairing of arsenals and magazines, and
for other purposes," and " A refolutioa
that the President of the United States
be authorized to employ, as dispatch boats,
such of the revenue cutters of the United
States as the public exigencies may re
quire," in which bill and resolution sever
ally, they desire the concurrence of the
Senate.
" The Spnker of the House of Repre
sentatives having signed two enrolled bills,
I am directed to bring them to the Senate
for the signature of Vice-Prefident."
And he withdrew.
The Vice-President signed the enrolled
bill, entitled, " An ast making further
provision for the expenses attending the
intercourse of the United States with fo
reign nations ; and further to continue in
force the ast, ehtitled "An ast pro
viding the means of intercourse between
the United States and foreign nations"
and the enrolled bill, entitled " An ast
to provide for the defence of certain ports
and harbors in the United States," and
they were delivered to the committee on
enrolled bills to be laid before the Presi
dent of the United States for his appro
bation.
The following written meflage was re
ceived from the President of the Uni t ,,}
IN SENATE,States, by Mr. Dandridge, his Secretary:
United States, 18th March 1794.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and ut
Houfc of Representatives,
THE Minister Plenipotentiary of the
Freneh Republic having requeded an ad
vaance of money/ I transmit to Congress
certain documents relative to that fubje£L
G. WASHINGTON.
The meflage and papers were read.
Ordcicd, That that they lie for coufi
deration.
44 The resolution sent from the House
of Representatives for concurrence, au
thorizing the President of the United
States, to employ, as dispatch boats, such
of the revenue cutters as the public exi
gencies may require," was ren'.
R-.'folvcd, That the Senate concur
therein,
O.dered, That the Secretary acquaint
the Home of Representatives with the
concurrence.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled "an
ast to provide for the ere£ting and re
pairing of arsenals and magazines, and
for other purposes," was read the firft
time.
O dered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
Mr. Vinirig reported from the commit
tee on enrolled bills, that they had this
day laid the following enrolled bills be
fore the Piefident of the United States;
The bill) entitled " An ast authorizing a
loan of one million of dollars The bill,
entitled " An ast making further provi
sion for the expenses attending the inter
course of the United States with foreign
nation*; and further to continue in force
the ast, entitled " An ast providing the
means of in;ercourfe between the United
K tes and foreign nations," and the bill,
entitled " An ast to provide for the de
ft, i. e of certain ports and harbours in the
United States."
The Senate rcfumed the second reading
of the hill,' sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled "an
ast to prohibit the carrying on the (lave
trade from the United States to any fo
reign place or country.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the
th id eading.
On n*btion,
Ordered, That the Secretary of the
Sl -le pay out of the contingent money,
to John Dunlap, two hundred and thirty
fev.n dollars, being the amount of his ac
count for Printing the Journals of the Se
nate, during the two la!t sessions of Con-
grcfe.
-'he Senate adjourned until 11 o'clock
to morrow morning.
CONGRESS
House of Representatives.
Wedncfday, Januaiy 29.
The SPEECH of Mr. Smith, of South-
Carolina, in reply to Air. Madison, on
the fubjeft of the Commercial Regulations.
Qcontin u^d]
We receive rom Britain,' said the gen
tleman, whatever (he pleased to fend us,
while fne refufed our principal staple.
Mr. Smith denied both these positions;
they were not founded in any sense.
I. The staple alluded to was flour and
grain. This the regulations of Britain
excluded fiom her home markets, except
in safes of extraordinary demand, but in
her V/ejl-India markeii the staple wasfree,
so that the afiertion was much too gene
ral. Our flour and grain were admitted
in those of her markets where perhaps it
most interested us that they should be,
where the demand was constant; they
were fußject to impediments in thofc of
her markets, where the demand would,
from the nature of things, be only occa
fioaal; while Franee, 011 the contrary, by
her permanent system, received this arti
cle only in her home markets, where there
could be no demand for it in ordinary
times, and excluded it from her Weft-In
dia markets, where there would be a con
flant demand.
2. It was not true that we received in
discriminately the manufactures of Bri
tain. We endeavor to exclude in the
fame sense, that (he excludes our (lour &
grain (viz by prohibitory duties) all such
of them as we think ourielves able to sup
ply ourselves with, for instance, candles,
cTieefe, soaps, nails and fptkes, steel, ca
bles and cordage, boots and /hoes, and
indeed the manufa&uies of leather gcne
rally, beer and porter, and many other
articles.
The gentleman was ajlonilhed at the
vast prevalency of British manufactures in
the United States* But there was no
ground for adonifhment to th'ofe who at
tended to fads. Tue tiue and natural
rcafon was, because Britain furniftied bet
ter as to quality and price than any other
country, mod of the more solid and ufe
ful kinds of manufacture and those of the
mo(t extensive coniumption ; generally
speaking, (he was rivalled elsewhere only
in luxuries and fripperies. Mr. Smith
said, if the gentleman had been adonifhed,
he had been no less so, at the idea of ex
cluding Britifli luxuries tor French manu
factures ; from the bed information he
had obtained, the mod solid and ufeful ar
ticles came from Britain, the frivolous,
luxurious and unneccflary ones from
France : He had procured from a mer
chant trading with France, a copy of an
order for a French cargo, such as is usual
ly sent, and it supported him in his afler
tion. Mr. Smith read the order, which
confided of, fans, cambrics, lawns, lute
drings, modes and fattins, silk dockings,
shoes, shoe-patterns and flippers, walking
canes, watches, feathers and flowers,
gloves, laces and edgings, ribbons, tiffa
ny,* crape, hair powder, human hair for
braids, combs, essences, perfumery, sweet
meats, mirrors, made up millenary, gold
and (liver thread and spangles, gold and
filvercord, ornamented fancy timepieces,
silk velvets, umbrellas, &c. These were
the JubJlttules for tlie manufa&ures of iron,
wool, cotton and leather, which the gen
tleman wiihed to exclude, by the duties
contemplated in his propositions.
The balance of trade was said to be a
gaind us in our trade with Britain, and
in our favor with other nations. Mr.
Smith said, the ide<is advanced as to this
point were of the lad century, and were
now exploded by all enlightened politici
ans. The only sense in \vhich the quedi
on could be intereding to us, refpe&ed
the balance of o(ir whole trade with all
the VforLl, not with a particular country.
It was immaterial whether it was againd
us in this country or in our favor with
that, the enquiry should be, how it dood
upon the whole ; and for it to dand well
upon the whole, the bed expedient, as it
regarded our internal commerce was, to
get what we want, where it could be ob
tained cheaped and bed, and to have as
great a choice of markets as v pofiible for
what we have to fell, by which means we
secure the bed price.—Measures tending
to change this course of things were the
bed that could be devised to render the ag
gregate balance disadvantageous to this coun
try.
Mr. Smith illustrated his positions by
the following (latement : Suppose the
whole amount of our imports to be as 200,
Britain fumifliing 150, France, 50;
Suppose our exports also equal to 200,
Britain taking 150, France, 50 ; here
the balance of our whole trade, according
to the rule adopted, would be equal.
Suppose Britain furniOied her manufac
tures 10 percent cheaper than France, &
that regulations were adopted, which
(hould have the effect of equalizing our
exports and imports to and from both
countries j Britain in this cafe would fur
nifh only one half of our imports, which
would coll us the fame as before, but
France would have to furnilh us with an
additional quantity equal to what cod in
Britain formerly jo, but as commodities
with her by the supposition, are 10 per
cent, dearer, the fame supply would now
cojt 55 ; our account of imports and ex
ports would then stand thus :
IMPORTS.
From Britain . - 100
From France former supply' 50
Additional f'ipply of 50 iranf-
po»tcd from Britain, coll-
ing 10 per cent. more.
Here it is evident the excess of imports
to exports on the fame scale of supply
would be as Jive, so that what is called
the balance of trade, before equal, would
now be turned against us in the proporti
on of Jive.
Thus the notable plan forgiving us a
more favorable balance of trade, would
end in rendering it less favorable, by di
verting us from thole sources where we
can get supplied on the best terms, to
others where we fliould be supplied on
worse terms.
(Sfacß to it continued.)
LAW OF THE UNION.
THIRD CONGRESS riF THE
AT THE FIRST SESSION,
Begun and held at the city of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Monday
thefecond of December,one thousand
(even hundred and ninety-three.
An ACT authorizing a loan of one m 'tllon
BE it enacted by the Senate and House ef
Rrprefentatiivs of the United States of
America, in Congress ajfembledy That, the
Prcfident of the United States be, and he
hereby is authorized and empowered to bor
row, on the credit of the United States, if
in his opinion, the public service shall require
•t, a sum not exceeding o*e million of dol
lars, at an intercft not exceeding five per
centum per annum, reimbursable at the plea
sure of the United States, to be applied to
fucb public purposes, as are authorized by
law, and to be repaid out of the duties on
imports and tonnage to the end of the pre
sent year: AND that it ftiall be lawful for
the bank of the United States, and the said
bank hereby is authorized and empowered to
make the loan aforefaid.
Frederick Augustus Muhlenberg,
Speaker of the House of
Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of the
United States and Prelident
of the Senate.
Approved March the 1
twentieth, 1794. J
G°. Washington, President of the
United States.
RESOLVED by the Senate and Hoiife of
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress assembled, That an
Embargo be laid on all ships and vefTels in
the ports or the United States, wh ther al
ready cleared out or not, bound to any fo
reign port or place, for the term of thirty
days; and that no clearances be furniihed,
during that time, to any ship or vefiel bound
to such foreign port or place, except ships or
vefTels, under the immediate directions of
the President of the United States; And
that the President of the United States be
authorized to give such inftru&ions to the
revenue officers of the United States, as shall
appear belt adapted for carrying the said re
folutipn into full effe&.
Frederick Augustus Muhlenberg,
Speaker of the Houfe*of Representatives.
John Adams, Vice-President of the United
States, and President of the Senate,
A*Pproved—March the twenty-lixth, 1794.
Go: Washington,
President of the United States
OF THE
UNITED STATES of AMERICA.
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS I have received infor
mation that cfcrtain persons in vi
olation of the laws, presumed under colour
of a foreign authority to enlist citizens of
the United States and others within the
ftateof Kentucky, and have there affcmbled
an armed force for the purpose of invading
and plundering the territories of a nation
at peace with the said United States:
And whereas such unwairantable mea
furss, being contrary to the laws of nations
and to the duties incumbent on every ci
tizen of the United States, tend to dilturb
the tranquility ot the fame, and to involve
them in the calamities of war: And where
as it i 3 the duty of the Executive to take
care that fnch criminal proceedings Ihould
be suppressed, the offenders brought to juf
ticc, and all good citizens cautioned against
measures likely to prove so pernicious to
their country and themselves, fnould they
be seduced into Cmilar infractions of the
laws;
EXPORTS.
To Britain 100
55 To France ioo
I have therefore thought proper to iflue
this proclamation hereby solemnly warning
every person not authorifedby the laws.a
gainft enlilling any citi'zen or citizens of
the United States, or levying troops, or
assembling any persons within the United
States for the purposes aforefaid, or pro
ceeding in any manner to the execution
thereof, as they will answer the fame at
their peril: And Ido also admonish and
require all citizens to refrain from enlft
ing, enrolling or assembling themselves for
such unlawful purposes and from being in
any wife concerncd, aiding or abetting
therein, as they tender their own welfare,
in as much as alllawful means will be ibicl
ly put in execution for securing obedience
UNITED STATES,
of Dollari,
BY THE
PRESIDENT
to the lairs, and for punlihinij such. dan
gerous and darjpg violation* thereof.
I do moreover charge and require all
courts rhagiftraUj and other officers, whom
it may concern, according to their refpe
ti»e duties, to exert the powers in them
severally veiled to prevent and suppress all
such unlawful afTemblages and proceedings
and to bring to condign punishment thoie
who may ltave been guilty thereof, as they
regard the due authority of Government,
and the peace and welfare of the United
States.
In tefiimonej •whereof, I have
caused the seal of the Unitd
States of America to be affixed
to thefc prefeni;, and figired the
fame with my hand. Done at
I the City of Philadelphia, the
twenty fourth day of March,
one tlroufand seven hundred
and ninety four, and of the
Independence of the Usited
States of America, the eight
teenth.
(L. S.)
Go: WASHINGTON,
Cy the President.
Edm ; Randolph,
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 27.
The receipt at the New Theatre on Mon
day evening, for the benefit of the captives
at Algiers from this port, was it'3o ucllar*;
the eleir profit probably about 900. The
house was not as full as it might have been,
many being kept away by the fear of too
great a croud. A very handsome occasional
addrefc was delivered by Mr. Wignell:—We
(hall endeavour to obtain a copy of it.
Gen. Advertiser.
AT s general meeting of the Citizens of
the City of Philadelphia,- the diftrift of
Southwark, and the Townihipof the
Northern liberties, he'd by adjournment
at the City Hall on Saturday the 22tl
day of March, 1794—The following
Report of the form of a proper inftru
mcnt to express the Public Thanks, for
the services of the Committee of Health,
and of the Heps which it will be expe
dient to pursue, in order to attain the
objects recommended to the public at
tention, by that Benevolent Commit
tee, was taken into consideration, and
the queft'.on being put 011 each proposi
tion the whole was unanimously adop
ted :—
At a meeting of the citizens of Phila
delphia, the Northern Liberties and dif
trift of Southwark, airembled on Satur
day the 15th March 1794» at the City
Hall, for the purpose of taking into con
sideration the report of their committee,
appointed to prepare an instrument expref
live of the most cordial grateful, and fra
ternal thanks of the citizens of Philadel
phia to (heir committee of health, for
the important, hazardous, and fuccefsful
services by them rendered, during the ca
lamity that lately affiiaed the city and li
berties, the following form was unani
inoufly adopted and agreed to on this oc
casion.
WHEREAS it hath pleased the Su
preme Ruler and Governor of the
Universe, to permit, during the months
of August, September and October last,
a molt dreadful visitation or epidemic ma
lady to afflicl the city and liberties of Phi
ladelphia 1 , in such manner that it is suppo
sed not Ids than jooo of the inhabitants
thereof have fallen vi&ims to the lame.
And whereas the following citizens of
Philadelphia, as guardians of the poor
to wit:
James Wilson, and
Jacob Jenkins, William Sarifbm.
And the following periods as a com
mittee of health—to wit:
Matthew Ctarkfon, : 'james Witman,
Stephen Girard, John Connelly,
John Letchwortb, Daniel Offley,
John Haworth, Thom?s Wiftar,
Thomas Savery, Israel Ifrad,
Henry D«orreft, James Sharfwood,
J. D. Sergeant, Mathcvv Carey,
Caleb Lowiiea, Samud Benge,
Peter Helm, Andrew Adgate,
James Kerr, and
James Swain, Joseph Infkeep.
And the fo'Jowing peribns, membersof
the alJiUant committee of he>kh, in the
Northern Liberties and the diftrift of
So.ithwarit—to wk:
Wm. P. Sp; *%»<*, Jacob Winncmore,
William Gregory, and
Jofcph ' Shubart Atmfoge,
totally Mregvied their own perianal prefervation, and only intent on arreting the
progress of the malignant disorder, with a
magnanimity and patriotism meriting the
highest eulogiums, itood forth and by eve
ry generous and indearing exertion pre
served the lives of many of their fellow
citizens from death, by conveying them
to a iuitable hospital which they had pro
vided at Bush-Hill for their reception,
where under the meritorious exertions and
peculiar care of Stephen Girard and Peter
Helm two of the citizens above named,
every pofiible comfort was provided for
the sick, and decent burial for those whom
their efforts could not preserve from the
ravages of the prevailing distemper: In or
der therefore, to perpetuate the memory
of such distinguished ufefulnefs to diflant
times, and to serve as an example and en
couragement to others, to emulate the like
benificent virtues, should it unfortunately
again become necessary topra&ife them,'
The citizens of Philadelphia, the dis
tricts of Southwark and Northern Liber
ties, do by this instrument present to the
above named Sanfom, as a guardian of the
poor, to the above named-
Matthew Clarkion, John Haworth,
C aleb Lownes, James Swaine,
i homas Wiltar, Mathew Carey,
Stephen Girard, Thomas Savcry,
Peter Helm, Jacob Witman,
Israel Israel, Samuel Benge,
John Letchworth, Henry Deforrcll,
James Kerr, and
James Sharfwood, John Connelly,
as a committee of health: and to the above
named
Wm, P. Spragucs, Jacob Winnemore
William Gregory, and
Joseph Burns, Shubt. Arinitage,
as members of the assistant committee of
health, their most cordial, grateful, and
fraternal thanks for their benevolent and*
patriotic exertions in relieving the mise
ries of fuffering humanity on the late oc
casion, and as
Andrew Adgate, and
Jona. D. Sergeant, Daniel Offley,
Jetfeph In keep,
members of the committee of health ; and
James Wilson, and Jacob Jenkins,
members of the afMant committee of
health, unfortunately fell vidims to their
generous exertions for the preservation of
the inhabitants, it is hoped, that their
great services will be held in everlasting
remembrance by the citizens, to whose
welfare they so nobly devoted themselves
even unto death, and that this will be
evidenced on all proper occasions in a fuf{-
a!>le attention to their surviving relatives.
Ordered,
Th.*t a copy of this instrument be duly
engraittd upon parchment signed by the
chairman of the meeting, and presented
to each of the persons above named, and
to the reprcfentatives of thedeceafed over
feara of the poor and members of the com
mittees above named, to remain with them
a» a memorial of the sense their fellow citi-
JW» entertain of the services rendered
lllem during the late-dreadful calamity.
The committee further .reconimend
tfce adopting the following resolution on
ffctf fcbjefl matters recommended by the
committee of health.
1. Resolved, That the thanks of the
meeting be given to
Jacob Witman, Ben. W. Morris,
fames Swaine, John Wood,
Geo. Forepauph, William Eckard,
Casper Suyder, Wm. Innis,
Peter Smith, > Joho Gtantham.
Jeremiah Paul, Thomas Willis,
James Cummins, Daniel Dawfon,
Casper W. Morris, Peter Thomson,
Thomas Caftierre, Thomas Allibone,
Adam Brittle, Lambert Wilmer,
Gerg. M'Elvaine, Samual Coats,
W. Robinson, fen. John Olden,
John Pattifon, Sam.Pancoaft,jun.
Rich. Whitehead, John Woodfide,
Joseph Kerr, 1,. Hollingfworth,
John Ettris, Wm. Watkins,
Jurtinian Fox, Thos. Dickfeys,
Am. Wicker!ham, Richard Mofely,
Arthur Howell, Clem. Humphries,
Ale*; Cochran, Joseph Olden,
Thomas Dobfon, and
George Rutter, John Savage,
WW as an afliftant committee, aided the
latter exert ibns of the committee of health,
and that they be afiured the citizens retain
* just sense of their meritorious conduct.
2d.- iiefolvcd, That the thanks of this
meeting be given to all the citizens of Phi
ladfelphia and its vicinity, who in any man
ner aided the committee of health ; and
alio to' the citizens of other parts of this
ftyfey and of the United States, whd have
nwvtributed their ulTiitaxice by donations,
or otherwise, to the relief of their poor
and diltreflcd brethren during the late ca
lamity.
3d. Refolvcd, That the sum of 3*247
dollars and 12 cents be paid to the committee
of health, in discharge of the balance due
to them, for monies expended in the execu
tion of their pious trust :—That the sum of
3954 dollars be deposited in the hands of
commifiioners, to be appointed by law, to be
by them laid out, in such proportions, as they
shall deem just, for the use of those persons,
who, either on account of their own lervices,
or the services of their deceased relations,
during the late public calamity, ftxall be en
titled to have, and lhall be willing to accept,
a compensation of that nature; and that
the sum of 2,800 dollars be deposited in the
hands of a committee, to be appointed by
the citizens, for the purpose of procuring a
piece of plate, of such form as the members
shall refpe<slively chufe, and of the value of
100 dollars, with a suitable device and in
scription to be engraven on each piece of
plate, to be presented to the surViving guar
dian of the poor, and to the refpe&ivJ repre
sentatives of his two deceased colleagues above
named; to each of the furviviflg members
of the committee of health, and to the ref
pe<Stive representatives of their deceased col
leagues above named; and to each of the
above named members of the assistant com
mittee for the Northern Liberties and the
diftri(st of Southwark, as a permanent memo
rial of the gratitude and esteem of their fel
low-citizens.
4th, Reiolved, That application be made
to the legislature of this commonwealth, to
pass an a& authorising a tax, to be liid on
th city of Philadelphia, the diftri.fl or South
wark, and the townfliip of the Northern Li
berties, for the purpoie of raising the sum of
10,000 dollars, to carry into efiedt the fore
going resolutions.
sth, Resolved, That the Legiflatui-e be
requested to provide a fund, by an annual
tax upon the city of Philadelphia, the diitrift
of Southwark, and the townfliip of the
Northern Liberties, for the purpose of main
taining, educating, and apprenticing the or
phan children, who were left by the late ca
lamity, dependant on the public compallion
and bounty : And, also, for giving to each
of the said orphans, who lhall prove deserv
ing of favor, a sum of money, not exceeding
100 dollars, or tools and implements equiva
lent in value, at the time of his, or her en
tering upon any trade or service.
6th. Resolved, That the chairman, and
the other members of the committee, who
made the report, to wit: —Thomas M'Kean,
Alexander James Dallas, Anthony Morris,
John B. Smith, John Swanwick, Charles
Biddle, and William Rogers, be a committee
to carry the foregoing resolutions into efFe<sh
On motion,
Resolved, That the thanks of the meeting
be given to the chairman and the other mem
bers of the committee, for their services on
this occasion.
(Signed)
THOMAS M'KEAN. Chairman.
CONGRESS.
lioufe of Reprefentatii>;s.
Thursday, March 20.
Memorial of Lewis Garanger, soliciting
the patronage of Congress, in behalf of him
felf and his brother Charles, for an improve
ment in the manufactory of arms, was read.
The houl'e resolved itfelf into a committee
of the whole house, on the state of the union;
gallery cleared.
Friday, March 2t.
A bill from the Senate, intituled "An
adt for the remillion of the duties oh certain
diftillcd fnirits destroyed by fire." was read
the firft and second time and committed to
the whole house.
Mr. Coit from the committee appointed,
presented a bill to provide for p-acing buoys
on certain rocks off the harbour of New-
London, and in Providence river—read the
firft and lecond time and committed to the
whole house 011 Monday next.
A melTage from the Senate by Mr. Otis
their Secretary, informed the house, that the
Senate have palled the bill intituled " An
acl to provide for the erecting and repairing
of arsenals and magazines, and for other
purposes," with several amendments, to
which they desire the concurrence of this
house. Adjourned.
By this Day's Mail.
BOSTON, March 19.
Extr<!a of a letter from Captain Reuhen
Loud, of the schooner Alert, to his bro
ther Captain Ehphalet Loud of Wey
mouth—Havre, Nov. 28, 1793.
" It is with infinite fatisfaclion, that
I find the greatest part of ray apprehen
sions of war between England and Ame
rica, are dispelled, by the lad advices,
which bear a more conciliatory appear
ance than hitherto. It is probable i ihall
remain here till spring."
On Monday last arrived here, Captain
Andrew Sigourney from Portland, bring
ing the agreeable intelligence of the fate
arrival there of the (hip Elizabeth, Capt.
Catchcart, with a valuable cargo Tom In
d»".
The British Channel fleet fuffered confi
de rdblv in a hurncane in t'ie month of Lie
cembei iali—one 74 gun ihip was so wreck
ed as to be obliged to go ihto dock for an
entire repair, her crew being transferred
to a new (hip. On the 3d January, iix
teen fail of the line, and several frigates,
were fitting and re-fitting in Plymouth
harbor.
[Guillotined] —At Paris, M. Le Brun,
jEt. 39, late Minister of State.—Crime,
conspiracy against the unity and indivisibi
lity of the State. M. Dieltrich, late May
or of Stiafbourg. The ci-devant duke de
Biron,—Crime, conspiracy, &c.~
NEW-YORK, March 26.
Ext raft of a letter from Curracoa, dated
Feb. 20, to Elias Nixon,
" By a schooner day before yesterday
from Tobago; the Captain has the King's
proclamation of a free trade for all the
Americans to any of the British ports."
Too frequently the effe&s of intoxica
tion end in irreparable lofles. Monday last,
Mr. Alexander Buchanan, and George
Andrefs, together with several others,
went out of town in pursuit of game ; and,
yn their return in the evening, they called
at the Inn of Mr. Daniel Tierfe, in the
Bowery, where they had mended their
draught—when a controversy took place
between Buchanan and Andiels, the lat
ter of whom received a blow from the For
mer, directed at the under part of the ear ;
by this blow, Andrefs fell a carpfe. On
examination, his neck proved to be brok
en. He has left a young widow,with an
infant at her breaft.—Buchanan has deli
vered himfelf up, and is now in the new
jail in this city.
NEW-LONDON, March 13.
Arrived, Brig Neptune, Burnham, in 20
days from New Providence, where he was
carried in by a privateer, detained eight days,
and then releaied.—All American vtffeis in
that port are relcafcd.
Arrived, B: ig Apollo, J. Williams, In 13
days from Grenada, via Turk's -llland ;
touched at St. Thomas's, where he fa\V
Capt. Guidon Saltonftall, of this port. Capt.
William law Mr. Fortefque Cumminn- in
Grenada, 33d Jan. lait, hearty and well, who
was to lail in a few days for Trinidad, and
expefU'd to fail for New-Haven about the
15 th i ; eb. Cape. Williams had letters for his
wife aad friends in New-Haven, bnt being
dialed by a French privateer, was obliged to
throw them overboard. Vtflels carried into
Fon Daupnin, by the Spaniards: Brig Bet
sey, Culhing, khode-Ifland, lloop- , Buck,
Newburyport, sloop Jacob, Philips, Hartford,
brig Aurora, Sage, Middletown, brig Nymph,
Phiiad lphia, lchooner Dove, N. Carolina,
schooner Lively, Mcne, do. lchooner Dolphin,
Bolton, brig iairplay, Morris, New-York,
sloop Polly, Hodge, Philadelphia.
From the Salem (Majfacbufetti) Gazette*
One day last week, from i to 200 sailors
in Gloucejter, who were thrown out of em
ployment by the present situation of our
commerce, lorined a mournful procelfion,
bearing the l/. S. flag, and accompanied by
military mulic ; and after parading the prin
cipal ltreets in the town, proceeded to the
farts, took a review of them, planted the
American standard upon the rampa ts, gave
three cheers, and declared themlelves ready
to act in defence of their country ; then re
turned to the place where they hrft formed,
difmilled at an early hour, and retired 10
their homes with the molt perfedt decency.
From a Connecticut Paper.
We are authoriied to inform the pub
lic, that A. Learned, Esq. declining to
be in the nomination of candidates for the
next Cbiigrcl's of the United States, re
queks his friends, not to give him their
iulfrages at the ensuing election.
The ast providing a naval armament has
received the approbation and signature of
the President of the United States.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
CLEARED.
Ship Industry, Perry, St. Andero
Bng Flora, Cailin, Havanna
Betl'ey, Dewer, Jeremie
George and Harriot, Barnard, Bolton
Dolpnin, Nickelis, ditto.
Schr. Polly, Weitcott, Edenton, (N. C.)
Good Intent, Miller, Jereraie
Kitty, Edwards, Bermuda
Sloop Ranger, Dunn, New-York
Nancy, Barker, Nantucket
Sally, Johnilon, Norfolk
The Schooner Mary, Capt. llufliv, from
Kingston Jamaica, it arrived in the Delaware.
The publication of the Ob/enver has been
unavoidably (ul^nded —b»t vill be frekiaed
soon.
1 Sundry rcfoltitions were brought for
w rd i. 's day in rhe House of Renrefen
ta. ve*-jy Mr. iJayton ; the purport of
which re, that indemnification ought to
be provided syr those who have fuftaincd
loss of property by the depredations of
the Britifli erniiers—and that all Britrfli
property in the United States rtiould be
placed in a state of fequellration, and held
as a security for the above purpoilj Theie
were taken up in cm ir.ittec of tl t whole,
a long debate eafued, but no decision t&olc
place—The committee rose and reported
progxefs.
A small French privateer schooner, called
the Sanfpareil, has captured and fcnt into
Chirldton, a Spanish snow from the Havan
na, bound to St. Augustine, having monev
to tli£ amount 107,000 dollars on board, for
the pay of the troops, and a reinfereem nt
for that garrison. Capt. German, spoke the
prize at CharleJtoa bar, on Sunday the 16th
jltftant.
The following "Certifi
cate of the funded three per Cent Slock f the
Domestic Debt of [he United Slates (landing oil
ihe books of the Treasury of the fatd Untied
Slates, in the names ol Donnald and Jlurton of
London, meichanls, and figncd by Joseph
Nouife, Regiflerof fsid Treaiury, to wit :
No. £476, dated August 1792 for 2959
dollar* and 53 cents -was Iranfmitted front JLOII
- in the .(hip Peter, Paul Huffey, master,
bound for New York, and has been loft.
The Subscriber intending 10 apply 10 the Trea
sury of the United States to have the fame re
newed , dcfiies all persons who are intei eftcd in
the said certificate, to make their obje&ions
thereto, if any they have.
Francis Macy.
7' d6w
Philad. March 27,
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
March 28,
Will be performed,
A COMEDY called
Dramatijl,
Or STOP HIM WHO CAN.
Lord Scratch, Mr. rate:,,
Mr. CI. veland,
;;,°n V ' M r. Moreion,
Wuloughby, Mr. Green,
i; ,luui » Mr. Finch,
f" et,;r ' Mr. Francis,
Vap.d, (with the Epilogue) Mr. Chalmers,
Mils Courtney, Mrs. Francis.
Lady Waitto.-., Mrs. ko-.v in
Lett )'> M•. C.. v . .
Marianne,
At the end of the COMEDY a
Pantomimical DANCE, called—
Tbe Sailor s Landlady,
OR,
Jack in Distress.
Mr. Francis
rsed Haulyard (with an&iv Jong) Mr. Oar-
iev, 'tin.
M.-lfi-s. Warrell, lit, Jet,
Wan-ell. jun.Lee, Baf.,a
and De Moulin.
M:s. Cleveland, Mrs.
Bates, Miss. Rowfon, &
Miss. Willems.
Landlady, Mr. Rowfon
Orange Girl, Mrs. IJc A'iarque
To with a double HORNPIPE
by Mr. Francis and Mrs. Be Marque.
To which will be added,
Sailors,
Lafits,
A COMMIC OPERA, irt t*o afls,
(by the author of the Poor Soldier) called
"The Farmer,
Colonel Dormont,
Valentine,
Fair ley,
Counsellor Flummery,
Farmer Blackberry,
Jemmy Jumps,
Rundy,
Farmer Stubble,
Louisa,
Betty Blackberry,
Molly Maybuih,
Landlady,
Places in the Bootes td be taken at the Box-
Office of the Theatre, at any hour fromrtine
in the morning till three o'clock in the after
noon, cn the day of performapce. Ticket!
to be lud at tl>e office near tlie Theatre, at
the corner of at Carr & Co'«
Muficalßepofitory, No. in, Marfcet-ftreet
The managers requoft, to prevent confu-
Gi>n, fervanti may be ordered to set down and
take up with the horses' heads towards the
Schuylkill, and drive off by SeveUlh-ftreet.
Boxts, one dotlar—Pitt, three quarter#
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.
%* As inconveniences to thcpublir have
arisen from the Box-book being open on the
day« of performance only, in faturfc attend
ance will be given it the office in the Theatre
every diy from ten 'till one, and on the day!
of performance from ten till three o'clock ill
the afternoon. Application', for Boxes,iti«
relpeftftillv requefled, may be addressed, ti>
Mr. Friflklin, «C iie SuxGjf ce.
M;-6. Maiiliail,
Mr. Green*
Mr. Madhailj
Mr. Warr&i,
Mr, hiilfctt,
Mr. Darleyj
Mr. Bates,
Kr. Francis*
Mr. MofTisy
Mrs. Warrgji,
Mrs. Mnrma.;,
gaffesPhiladelphia, Marchi, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market Jlrect,
I*HE FIRST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography :
OR, A
Geographical, Historical, and
Commercial Grammar;
And present (late of the feve-al
nations of the world.
COMTAI N I N C,
I. The figures, motions, and distances of
the planets, according to the Newtonian sys
tem and the latest observations.
2- A general view of the earth, considered
as a planet; with several ufeful geographical
definitions and problems.
3. The grand divisions of the globe into
land and water, continents and islands.
4. The Gtuation and extent of empires,
kingdoms, dates, provinces and colonies.
5. Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, metals, minerals, natural curi
osities, Teas, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
aud lakes.
6. The birds and beasts peculiar to each
country.
7. Observations on the changes that have
been any where observed upon the face of na
ture since the most eaqy periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations ; their
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
nues, taxes, naval and military strength.
9. The genius, manners, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
10. Their language, learning, arts, sciences,
manufactures, and commerce.
ii. The chief cities, ftru&ures, ruins, and
artificial curiosities-
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
distances of principal places fromPhiladelphi?
•TV •-*. TJ-J
To which are added,
1. A Geographical Index, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Table of the Coins of all nations, and
their value in dollars and cents.
3. A Chronological Table of remarkable
events, from the creation to the present time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Astronomical Part corrected by
D r . Rittenhouse.
To which have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herschell,
and other eminent Astronomers.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrected, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firft volume contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, besides two Astronomical Plates)
viz.
a. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world.
3. Europe. 4. Aiia. 5. Africa. 6. South-
America. 7. Cook's discoveries. 8. Coun
tries round the north Pole. 9. Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway. 10. Seven United Pro
vinces. 11 Austrian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. J2. Germany. 13. Seat of war
in France. 14. France divided intodepait
meats. t5- Switzerland. 16. Italy, Sicily,
an 1 Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
18 Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 20. Weft-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22. Ar
miliary sphere. 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
th-* press, will be given the following Maps s
1. Rufita in Europe and Asia.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
5. China.
6. Hindoftan.
7. United States.
8. British America.
9. State of New-Hamplhire.
10. State of Massachusetts.
It. State of Conne£icut.
12. State of Rhode Island.
13. State of New-York.
14. State of New-Jersey.
15. State of Pennsylvania.
j6. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
20. State of North-Carolina.
2\. TennelTee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia.
TERMS.
s. This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing* cents for boards.)
3. Thsy may receive the fuccceding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finiihed, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. Th: Oibfcription will be raised on the firft
day of June 1794, to fourteen dollars, ex
clu ive of binding.
5. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
6. The names of the fubferibers will be pub-
Jilh?d as patrons of American literature,
art?, and sciences.
It is wholly unnecefiary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American readers, that this edi
tion possesses, over every imported edition of
any fyfte nof Geography extant. The addit
tion of maps of the several ftate>, procured a
a very great expense, and from the best mal
terials that are attainable, speaks such ful
conviction on this fubjeft, that it would be
difrefpeft to the reader's understanding to
suppose it requisite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In noj
similar work have such maps beenever intro
duced.
The emendations and additions which are
made in this work,are innumerable, and occur
in every page. The public are referred to
the preface for a (light (ketch of a few of
them.
The publisher takes the present opportu*
nity of returning his most sincere thanks to
those refpr&able characters who have favored
him with documents for improving the maps
of several of the states. He requests a conti
nuance of their kindness; and hopes that such
public spirited citizens, as are poilcfled of si
milar documents, will favor him with their
a&ltance in perfecting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he has been favored, has excited
in hisbreaft the warmed sentiments of grati
tude— sentiments which time will not efface.
He pledges himfelf to the citizens of the
United States, to spire neither pains nor ex
penfe to render the present edition of Guthrie's
Geography improved, deferviug of their pa
tronage. waftf
Stock Brokers
No. 16, Wall-ftrcet, New-York.
THE Subfcribei intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, h.gs leave to of
fer his fervicesto his Inends and other*, in the
line o( a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor htm with their bufmefs, may deprnd
upon having it tranladed with theuimuft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will he ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&thtf
NORRIS. COURT,
Back of the New Li'iTVy, betweeu Chefnut
and Walni
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLYi oftfrnu his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the budnefs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
for doors or window-(hutters,donft in the mod
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30,
PROPOSAL'S
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from a&ual survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS P»an will be cng-avcd on a plate 26
inches square ; and it will contain an ex
ad description of all the squares, ftrcets and
alleys in the City and I,ib< rues. The fuuaiion
of the several public buildings, such as the State*
House, City-Hall, Seat ot Congress, Churches,
Meeting-Houses, Hospital, Library and Semina
ries of Learning— of the several Banks, and ot
the Federal and State Offices, will be afecrtained.
The parts which are built on will be distinguish
ed from those that are not. The courses ot the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended to connect the
navigation of those two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a
view of the (hipping in the harbor, and an ele
vation of Congress-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In short, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and desirable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power :
and it (Hall be compleated with the greatest
poflible dispatch, as soon as the generous encou
ragement of fubfcnbeis shall infyre to the author
such a sum as will be fufficicnt to defray ex
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the Subscribers names, and information con
cerning the police, population and present (late
of the city.
The price to fubferibtrs will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at (he time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Subscriptions will be gratefully received at
the principal Booksellers iu this city—and the
original Draft may be seen at B. Davies',
No. 68, Marktt-ftreet, at any time until it (hall
be put into the hands of the Engraver.
Feb. 28.
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commissions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
(March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
The Minister Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are requested to republifh the
foregoing notice. d
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock
Street:—
A few Bales of Ruflid Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs »n Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchong Tc«, Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Cin in Cases*
A Quantity of Brimftonf,
With a Variety of other Good*.
Feb. *o. 3'aw6w
War Department.
January go/A 1794.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military invalidsof the United State*,that the
fuins to which they are entitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will bccome due
on <ne sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Cotnmiliioiieis of the Loans
within the dates refpt&tvcly, under the ufualre-
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
mull be accompanied with legal evidence of
their rcfpr&ive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Preftdmt
of the United State»,
H. KNOX,
Sec 1 clary oj War.
(£3" The printers in the respective Itates are
requeued lopublifa the above 111 their oewfpa
pcrs for the space of tvro months.
Office,
Januai v 30.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying
ground,
TAK£S this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
fliorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeysand chairs, and harness
of evory description, in the neatest and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United Stares.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion to thole who pleufe to employ him
He has for sale, several carriages almost
finilhed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel spring*, a light phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794 m&tgm
Just Published,
In one handsome volume, iamo. Price 5s
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin*s Head-, No. 4T, Second
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it impoies.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
CorreQed and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
ProfefTor of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
of Nature, and of Eccleliaflical History ;
and Minister of the English Church at U
trecht.
Aliquid Temper ad communcm utilitatem af
fcrcnduin. Cicero.
The F'trjl American Edition.
THE grand principle of" Equality, if right
ly underltood, is the only basis on which
universal justice, sacred order, and perfedt
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The view of it exhibited in this
efTay, at the fame time that it reprefles the
insolence of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages of oppreflion ; confirms, in the
mofl forcible manner, the neceflity oi" subor
dination, and the just demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftin&ion,
draws more closely every social tie, unites in
one harmonious arid justly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Ed-jjard y Capt. Crandoji, from
St. Peterlburg in Ruflia,
m&thtf
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG'« BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
yohn Dotmaldfon,
No. u, Walnut-street.
diwjtawtf
Mirch4,l794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
M.Carey, No. 118 ,High-Jireet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Satings and
Subjects, which arc full of Common
Sense, the bejl fenfc in the world.
THIS liitle book is written in a (tile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all claflVs of people, merchants, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
work acquired, that it has patted thro three im
prcflions in the eallcrn states, and many houie
holders deem it so ufetul as to purchase a copy
for every adult in then families.——Paic ess.
February 4. dit
dam
AND FOR SALE BY
D. D.
eodi wtu&ftf
AND FOR ,«AL& BY
Excellent CLARET,
In hogf«ead* and in cafe* of 50 bottles cacb.
ALIO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipea, hog (heads and quarter cases,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front ltreet.
'794- Htf
Jan. t,
Lately Publiflie<L
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street :
THE History of N<*w.Hamp(hire, from the
Discovery of the River Pifcataqua—by Jt.
rcniah Belknap, D. D. 3 VoU. Price in Boards,
4 I 2 Dollars.
The Forrcftcr, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to *he Hiftoi y of Johu Bull the Clothier.
Pice, 75 Cents.
A Discourse, intended to commemorate "the
Discovery ot America by Chnftopher Colum
bus; delivered at the request of the Historical
Society in Massachusetts, Ottober 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Thud Centuiy,
since that memorable event. To Which are
added, Foui D ilertations, coime&ed with the
fubjett—By the fame author. Price, 50 Cen;*.
March 17. (uth&^w
Advertisement.
WI LL be exposed to public sale, on Se
venth cay the 29th of this instant, at the late
dwelling house of Richard Cheyney, deceas
ed, a plantation,firuate in the Town/hip of
Thornbury in the county of Delaware, and
lying on ChelVer creek, containing 80 acres,
15 of which are good watered meadow, and
more may be made at a small expence, about
25 acres of wood land, and the remainder is
good fertile land well lupplied with water-
There are on the preinifes,a good stone
dwelling House and kitchen, an excellent
garden, en orchard of 25 good bearing trees
aj»ood bam cellar'd under, a saw-mill, and
an excellent feat for a grift or merchant mill
with a f'uificiency of water.
Like wife a tract of wood land ajoining the
above—lmmediate poflelfion will be given to
the pure ha for—-The sale to begin at 2 o'clock
on said day, where attendance will be given,
and Conditions made known bv
JOHN CHEYNEY,
WILLIAM CHEYNEY, 5 cu "
March, 19
For Salt by tbc Subscribers,
Muscovado Sugar in hhds. & bbsi.
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, ill pipe*
and quarter calks.
Spaaifh Indigo.
Boston Beef, in barrels.
And a fmaH invoice of MuHins.
NALBRO' & JOHN FRAZIER,
No. 164, South Front-street.
fmw4w
March 8,
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representatives,
Declmber 2 1 Ik, 1 793.
WHEREAS Hie Commiflioncrs of public
Accounts, h.»ve reported, that they cani
not procced to the tnveftigation of the Tteafury
Accounts, refpc&ing special without
knowing the outfkandiog amount thereof in cir
culation Theuf-ire,
-Refulucd, That all holders of special Indents
be dirc£Vd, and required, on or before the firft
day ol November ti xt,to deliver the special In
dents in thetr poflVflion to one or other of the
Commifftuucis of the Trr»fury, who are to give
receipt* for tne fame, and to report to theCom
miUioner* on public accounts, on or before she
tench day of November next, the amount by
ther* rcfpe&ively received, and also to the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next,
and that all fpccial Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, lhall be, and tbc fame are
hereby barred.
Rejolvtd, That public notice of this resolution
be given m the feveial Gazettes m thi» State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And that the Delegates of this
State in the Congress of the United States, be re
queiisd to cause this rciolution to be publifhcd
in one or more papers in the cities of PniladcL
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for the cxpeuces attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be Cent to the
•Seuate for their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN' SAN FORD DART, C.H.R.
In tbi SENATE,
December 21(1,1793.
Rejoined, That this House do concur with the
Houic ol Rcprefentatives in the foregoing reso
lutions.
Ordered, That the resolutions be lent to the
Houte ot Rcprefentatives.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov.
INFO RMATION
Is Requested
By tbe Editor, of" a Mr. William Kilton, a
Brick Layer, who went from New-England
and was at Philadelphia ift August, x 793*
ft nee which time nothing has been heard of
him—Great relief will be afforded to his aged
parents and friends, by any intelligence con
cerning him-—as they are fearful that he ha*,
fallen in the late general calamity.
March 22.
PHILADELPHIA;
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
d4t.