EVENING V E R T I S E R.
[No. of Vol. V.] Monday, May 19, 1794. [Whole No. 530.]
' ' ' "
notice.
VHE Snbfcriber ie. vn.g*«ln»c > ty for a short
time, las empowered Mr. Thorny »
traiifaft all bufiiiefsin his ablence, bold.ng his
tranfacfions as Valued on _
Louis Ofmont.
dtf
May 10 __ .
REMAI N I N O
OF THE
Ship India's Cargo,
FROM
bengal.
A small allortment of
BALE GOODS,
2JO b.,g V.OJ ION of good qual tv, which
would ; robably make an excellent remit
tance to Europe, a
Oiui.tity of PEI'PER ■
For Sale ly
Morclecai Lewis,
Who bai al/o todifpofe of
Barcelo a Hand ts. 111 boxci,
Holland Gi. i eaes,
S. ucl.oi'g, Hyf'n > and Toi kay Tea,
A quia t ly us Rimltone, &c.
M,.y 1? rf 3 w
City of Walhington.
THI Subfc.ii>ers to the Articles of Agree
ment of the u Columbian Society" are re
queued to meet at Mr. Richardet's Tavern
in the city of Philadelphia, 00 Monday the
26th day of t ie present mbutb, at 12 o'clock
in order 10 choole a board of Managers, &c,
in conformity with the 9th article of their a
greement.
James Greenleaf.
N. B. Dinner wi I c dercd on the Table
at 3 o'ciock for luth "f the Sutfcribers as
may cboole to pals a facial hour after the
business of the day is finifhed.
May 5 dr?.6M.
FOR jSJLE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
- :. . liai Rct-Strcct, •
An Essay on Slavery,
Defined to exhibit in a new point ol v;< w
its etfefis on tnoia/s, tndujiry, "and the peace of
fcciety. Some ra&s and calculations are o tie red
to prove ttie labor ot Jieemen to be much more
prodiftivc than that ot slaves ; that countries are
nch, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the butts of lheir own
labor ; and hence the n ctflfii y.conclufion, that
slavery ts impolitic as well - & unjuji.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February 1.5.
Congress of the United States,
In Senate, TuefJay May iyb, 1794.
ORD&UED, hit Rufu* Putnam, Mai.Si
fall Cutler, Robert Ohver and Griffin
Green, do, up ( on the thiid Monday ot Decem
ber next, il}e .* catite to the Senate, why so
muc'i f tji grants ot land to them the said
Rtifus Putnam. ManaiiaU Cutler, Robert
Olive: and Griffin Green, pursuant to an A&
cotitl d u An a& authorizing the grant and
conveyance of certain la. ds to the Ohio Com
pauy of alfociate (hall not be declared
"void, as may interfere with a'id be fufficient
to fatisfy the claims of the French settlers
at Gailiopohs.
Ordered, that the delivery of a copy of
the above order to Ru'us Putnam, Manaffah
Cutler, Robert Oliver, or Guffin Gjeen, and
the publication of the lame, Vnonth, in
one of the Gazettes printed in this City, shall
be deemed fufficient > otice theieof.
Extra<sl from the Journals of Senate.
Attest,
SAM. A. OTIS, secretary.
May 14. tin.
Dr. Moore's Journal in France,
VOLUME id.
This Day is published,
Price 6?. Hitched, and 7/6 .«ea Iv bund, by
H. & P. R I c E,
Bookfellcn, No. 50, Market flreet,
A Journal daring a refidenee in France)
from the beginning of Angull to the middle of
December 179s ; To wh eh is added, an ac
count of the rnoft rema.kable events that
happened at Paris, from that time to the death
ol ihe late King of France.
By JOHN MOORE, D. D.
May 17 5t
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY and FRENCH
BURR STONES,
FOR SALE BV
Gurney and Smith.
May 14. d
For LONDON,
°s WILLIAM PENN,
NOW lying at Jefle and Robert Wain's
wliarf, to fail with all convenient speed. For
freight or passage, apply to
JOHN FIELD <5* SON,
Or,
JESSE & ROBERT IVALN.
May ij. dtf
> For Baltimore, i
BALTIMORE, !
i-tKRi Benson, Mailer.
But then about 140 tons, is intended to ftil (
1 ae foou as her inward cargo is dif- havged, un- (
less freight (hou d offer to detain her. t
For freight apply to the Captaiii on board
at Hamilton's wharf, or to .
SAMUEL iff MIERS FISHER,
Who have for Sale,
A FEW PIPES
Cargo TeneriiFe wine
And a lew pipes Sweet Do
Excellent Sherry Wine 111 quarter calks
London Porter in 42 gallon calks
White and Red Lead and Spanilh Brown
Tin plates in boxes
An allotment of East India Fans, Nan
- keen and Silks
With a general affiirtment of Merchaudiw
" as usual.
- sth JWo. 5, .794 dt> '
* For Sale or Charter,
ANDROMACHE, }
(An American bottom) >
s John Moore, Majier.
i IS ast out good velftj, about two /ears oH,
burthen 232 tors, iias only madi thr-ee v<v-
and tiray be lent to tea at a fm»l et
penee. She may be seen at whatt,
and the terras made k >own bv appl cation to
WIUkTON & LEtVISi
~"MarpH it. J3
For Fredericklbnrgh «
mouth, Virginia, ■
: FRIENDSHIP,
Capt. |M 4 Na'mara.
, W-l| fail on WhDNfiiiJAK next. For freight
or paf'ge apply o he Master on board, at
JOHN WALN'< Wliarf, <.r »'
EMANUEL WALKER, 1
WHO HAS FOR SAI E u
The Cargo of said Veffel —Cons/ling of t
VIRGIN'IA WHEAT,! a
FLOUH,
DEER SKTNS, &c. P
GINStNG 1
May 17 d 4 . 1
NEW THEATRE.
c
u
For the Benefit of »
Mr. CHALMERS, '
On Wsjdnesday, May 21.
A PLAT and FARCE,
As will be exprefle'd in the Bills of the
DAY.
May 15 d. \
JAMAICA RUM, '
LANDING at Hamilton's wharf, above
the Drawbridge, out of the (htp Bacchus
Cept. Vanneman, from Jamaica,
FOR SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT.
r May 16. d
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglhcads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
also, «
. A few cases Champaigne Wine ; !
; MADEIRA, I
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,' ;
No. tlx, South Front llreet.
Jan. 2, 1,794. dtf
NOTICE.
THE OFFICE >f th Secretary of State is
removed froth High Street, to the New Build
ings, the comer ot Sixth & Mulberry ftrects
May 15 iw
The Ground Plan
or THE
City and Suburbs
OF
f PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM ACTUAL SURREY.
IT is with pleasure that the publifner has to I
inform l»j t'ut>fcri!)er,and the public in j-ent.
i»l, that the plate .s now under the hands of
tbo.d.ig "aver, and in greater fciryardufs than
was at firft contemplated. At tin fame time
heb.-gs tor mind them, tli t fu&fcrip
tibo papers are itiil opsn at rrtoft of the noted
bu .k-ftores in the city ; and that he hopes
from the whole of tliem to be enabled to so m
liicii a refpeftable ca aiogue of names, as will
do a credit to the wcirk, as well as affoid a
rejto lable encouragement to the undertiks-i
Til >:s who are delirousof farther inforjna.
I lo.i are requested to call on
Benjamin Dalles,
No. bi, Market 111 et
April 14. m&tlitf
JUST PUBLISHED,
MATHEW* CAREY,
118, Market Jlreet,
Price 18 cents,
THE
Catechism of Man ;
Pointing out f.oin found principles, and ac
knowledged Fa&s the Rights and Duties of
ei'ery Rational Being.
Ami therefore become your enemy becanfe I
tell you the truth ? Gal. iv. 16
Now all these things happened unto theih for
examples, and they arc written for our
upon whom the ends of the
earth are come. i Cor. xii.
May id tuth&S2W
Advertisement.
THE relatione of Mr. Thomas Curtis,for
me: \y of .silicon's Upper Mills, and lately of
the C ty of Wash ngfon? dc'cealicf, are defir,
*d to apply ai>d have his aifairs letted.
' City of Walhington, April 22, 1764.
M. 5 mfoth4W
Diftri£tof Pennsylvania
TO IVIT: ,3
/£~"g , BE it remembered, that on the
* *' twenty fourth day of March, in
the eighteenth year of the independence of the
U .itedStates of America, EBENtztR Hazakd
of the said diftricl, hasdepofited in t 'is office,
the title of a book,the right whePeot he claims
as author, in the words following, to wit :
u Hiilorical Cdle&ions; confining of ilate
papers, and other authentic documents » in
tended as materials for an history of the U
nited States of Am rica.
By EBENEZER HAZARD, A.M.
Member of the American Philosophical So
ciety, held at Philadelphia, for promoting
ufefu! knowledge; Fellow of the American
academy of Arts and Sciences; and
pondent member of the Malla'chufetts Hiito
rical Society.
VOLUME 11.
Ingenium, Pietas, Arte* - , acsbellica virtus,
Hue profugae venient, et Regna illurtria
condent,
Et Domina hie Virtus erit, et Fortuna mi
niftra."
In Conformity to the a<sl of the Congress of
the United States, entitled 4< An art for the
eucouragement of learning, by fecui ing the
copies of maps, charts ant', books, to the au
thors and proprietors of such copies,, during
the times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Dijlr'id of Pennsylvania.
May 7 ew4w
ESSENCE
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold by Dr. IjKE 9 Golden-
Squart, London.
THE public is orfered one of the mo ft
efficacious and fafe medicines, that ever ap
peared, for that most excruciating pain* the
Tooth-Ache —the numerous instances of its
happy effe&s, in relieving the afflidted, have
now brought it into Uriiverfal estimation ; it
not only relieves the tooth-ache, but is of the
tifmoft service in curing the SCURVY in the
Gums, in preventing the disagreeable smell
'that is producecf from unlbund tee hj & will
occalkm a sweet breath; if Ifkewife prevents
the \eeth from decaying, and will be found
a general prefer ver of the Teeth and Gums
Sold in Philadelphia only at
Poyntell's Stationary Store,
No. 21, Second street.
April 2j. tuth&s 3W
From the Philadelphia Gazette.
The following it the fuhjlanct of the obfer- 1
•vations made by Mr. Smith, (S. C.J
on the Non-importation Billy in the House
oj Representatives of the United States.
Mr. Smith was opposed to the measure
becaufc it was inconsistent with that fpi
nt of negociation which wa6 contempla
ted not only by the Executive, but by
Congrcfs; for although some members
fecmed averfc to any further attempt at
negociation, yet it was evidently the wish
of a considerable majority to give it ano
ther trial.
The measure carried with it a menace ;
it held out this language, ".That unless
Great Britain would consent to certain
measures, the United States would pun
ilh her by certain other measures."
This language had a direst tendency
to defeat all negociation, for no nation
would ever treat on such terms: Even
were Great Britain disposed to make
compleat fatisfaCtion for every injury, her
pride would restrain her from making
concessions which might appear the re
sult of threats and apprehenlions.
This had been compared to the cafe of
an individual, and it had been shewn that
in common life, no man of'fpirit would
make atonement for an injury, when it
was demanded with a threat of punishment
if withheld. Mr. Smith applied the cafe
to ourfclves ; he brought it home to the
feelings of the members themselves, and
he alktd if they, under fimilarcircumftan
ces, either as private or public characters,
would not from a lpirit of national pride,
spurn at the idea of having redress extort
ed by menaces ?
Great Britain would be disposed to
make or withhold reparation according to
events in Europe, and according to hef
<if :''y a~K-'^*n(T" a , —
resulting from a was with the United
States.
By that view would her answer be go
verned ; Should the cabinet of that nati
on hesitate with re.'pest to peace or war,
a measure like this would undoubtedly de
cide them against peace; their language
would naturally be, we were disposed to
accomodate all differences on the moll ami
cable terms, but such a disposition under
the present circumllances would appear to
be the result of fear excited by your
threats, and commit our reputation in the
eyes of all the world ; you mull therefore
pursue your measures and we. (hall pursue
ours. Mr. Smith a Iked whether this
would not be the language of every nati
on in a like iituation ; he was persuaded
it would be ours. There was nothing
pusillanimous in asking reparation in de
cent terms, unaccompanied with threats.
It was the common pra6tice of all na
tions ; Genoa had recently, though her
neutrality had been violated and her port t
blocked up,fent an envoy extraordinary to
Great Britain to demand fatisfa&ion ; her
demand was couched in mild and civil lan
guage ; yet Genoa was universally ap
plauded for the firmnefs and the dignity
of her condu& as a neutral power. It was
not enough to fay that we had been grossly
infulted,this was admittedinitsfu'.left extent
but every nation when it required redress,
was previously insulted ; the very demand
of fatisfa&ion implied antecedent injury : ,
Nations however negociated without
threats.
Why then did gentlemen so frequently
cry out—What, shall we negociate with a
nation which has violated our rights ? He
would ask those gentlemen when negocia
tion was neceflary, but in the cafe of vio
lated rights ? He would further ailc them
whether they were not the firil to urge
negociation with the Dcy of Algiers, who
had captured our veflels and degraded our
miserable fellow-citizens to the level of
beads of burden ? Whether they did not
oppose the naval aimament, lell it Ihould
irritate the Algerines and prevent the fuc.
cess of negociation ? Was it not the con.
ftant policy of this country to negociat e»ith the Indian; when practicable _ rather ]
than to make war with iM'm ? Why then j
raise objections to a ncgociaticu with Eng- ,
land! or why after having adiliitted that (
negociatiofi shall be attempted? 'dcfc.it it by
theft projects ? I
It a majority of the house are ripe tor
war, let us frj'fo, and *61 tontft.-iitly; but
let us not hold one language at one time,
and contradict it at another. Let us not fay
■w€ are for peace and immediately adopt a
war measure. ' ■
Mr. S. inferred front tjfefe obfervatioris,
that negociation being determined on, he
was bound to refill any and every a& which
tended to fruftr«ite that negociation.-
x But whj he was thus for the juavitcr in
moda, he' was. at the iiime time for the forti
trr in re, and he called upon the advoca es
of this scheme to join him in those mcaft.rcs,
which at the fame time that they werefiee
from the'foregeng 0b,.-tions, would, iu his
opinion, either give efiette the negociation,
or prepare lis for the event of its fai'uPe.
\ gcitleatan had said, a we have foitifi
ed our harbours, we have filled our arsenals,
we have tnereafe d the military eilabLJhment,
now we inuft d 6 something more." But
the gentleman, in the warmth of his imagi
nation, lead raifuken things Vo be done, for
tlcing" actually done. Ihe fact was, that
tiie gentleman was entirely unbounded in all
t'hefe alflrtions. We have not fortified our
harbours, we have not iupplie<t"our arsenals,
vt. have not augmentc J our military strength.
'Tis true we have it all on paper, but the
very reittues necessary for the existence ot
all those rffential points, arc not yet reported
by the committee of ways and means, and
until those revenues exist, the laws we have
paflcd will be of little ava 1.
It was propo* -d by the law, that the non
importation fliouid not taice' effect till No
vember next,. a;;d that diflant period was (
fixed for its oper ition, to afford time tor the
reftilt of the negotiation, and that Congreis
night previouf.y be iiifeilion, in order to re
peal the law if the negociation should fac
cetd. Thus, while the very law itfelf ad
mitted she propriety of a negociation, it car
ried with it the very death wound of all ne
gociation, by exprefslv purporting to be in
tzrroriri. if it was not intended as a threat
why not \v::it till November*, and then adopt
tire'meafure, if" expedient Suppose this house
should, in November, deem the measure in
expedient, they can't repeal it wifheut the
concurrence of the Senate , and Prefcdent;
thus they foreftal the judgment of the house,
and deprive themfeiv- of that independence
which they oug'l t to poi'.^is, to act in the
next fefiion according to their then view of.
things. !' i ? * f, •
Some members had propoftd the ill of
November, in order to ac'mit the
but if that was the drfign, the period would
- —t~-«T-;T l TprT7fre-i —trnrj-fm- -k"wnoW"- be v ex
tremely unequal in its operations; in some
of the Hates, the fall vessels -plight generally
be arrived by that time ; but in some of the
fouiherri dates, they would be generally ex
cluded, and those states deprived of their ex
pected supplies. ■
He further objected to the measure, on the
grounds of its dictating the terms of nego •
cintion, which was not within the province
c£ this lioufe, and was therefore interfering
with the executive, and so far a departure
from the spirit of the conftitut'ejn ; but this
ground having been fully <lifcufieck by other
members, he (hould not dwell on it.
One member had expressed an affection -
for this measure, because it was as he had
termed it, a Jlepping Jione to fequejlration ;
Mr. S, thought it would be more properly
called a Jhonbling block to negociation ; he
disapproved of it in both shapes. He ob
jected to it, both as to the mode in which it
appeared and as tQ the tiYne ; as to the mode,
because it fpecified particular grievances, and
thus while it embarrafled our executive, it
menaced the executive of the nation with
whom we were to treat, and made the re
dress of those fpeciftc grievances the fine qua
non {>f all future intercOurse; as to the
time, because as it was not to take effect till
the next session of Congrels, there could be
no other view in passing it now but that it
might operate as a threat, and as this inten
tion could not be millaken, it would un
doubtedly defeat all accommodation.
Such being his view of the subject, he
could not reconcile it to his duty to vote for
it. He thbught Congress owed it to their
constituents to avoid a war, if pofTible : The
ground of negociation being taken, they
were bound to reject every measure which
might have a tendency to defeat it, and to
do every thing which might give it a fair
chance v of futcefs. But while he said this,
(as a neutral nation could nbt justly give
umbrage by taking measures to support her
neutrality and assert herjuft rights) he pledg
ed himfelf to- concur in every act which
might place us in a condition to make our
selves respectable, to vindicate our national
honor, and to obtain ample retribution for
any wrones which the course of events might
leave unrydrefled. - .
CONGRESS.
IN SENATE,
Wednesday, May j, 1794.
A meflage from the House of Repre
fentativesby Mr. Berkley their Clerk :
"Mr. President—The Honfe of Re
prcfentafives have paiTed thi bill, sent '
from live Senate? for concurrence, €iiti- 1
tied, '• An ast for the remiflion of the
duties on eieven hogfhsads ot CoiFeee
which have been ticilroycd by fiie And
he withdrew.
On motion, by the Senators of that
State,
Ordered, that the papers accompanying
the remonftratice of the legislature of the
State of New-Hampflure, against the de
termination of the Circuit Court for the
diftrift of New-Hampshire, held at Ex
eter'on the 24th day of October 1793,
be withdrawn. '
Mr. Huvkius from the committee to >
whom was referred "the bill, entitled,
" An ast supplementary to " An ast pro
hibiting for a limited.time the exportation
of aims and ammunition, and encouraging
the importation of the fame, reported
amendments, v.hich were read, adopted,
and the bill amended ac -o-dingly.
Ordered, that this bill be engrofTcd for
a third reading.
The motion made yesterday " that a
committee be appointed to report to the
Senate .what part of the trade of the
United States may be released from the
effect of the present embargo, without in
terfering with the principle that induced
the laying fo-the fame," was resumed.
Ordered, that this motion be referred
,to Mr. Butler, Mr. Eiifworth, and Mr.
Bradford, toccmfiJer and report thereon
to the Senate.
The petition of Oliver and Thomson
and others, meichants of Baltimore-town
wis presented and read, praying that fur
ther time may be allowed for the payment
of certain wipoit duties,' about to fall
due, for.reaTons Hated at large in the peti
tion,
Ordered, That the petition be referred
to the committee last named.
The petition of Oliver and Thomson,
merchants of Baltimore-1 own, praying
that part of the impo!l duties on a quan
tity of lrifh linens and Madeira .vine, said
to be overrated by mistake may be refund
ed.
Ordered, That this petition be refer
red to the Secretaiy for the department
of Treasury, to consider and report there
on the Senate.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" An ast supplementary to " An ast to
provide for the defence of certain ports
and harbors in the United States," was'
read the third time, and being amend
ed—
Resolved, That this bill pass with a
mendments.
Refolvcd, That the Secretary desire
the concurrence of the House of Repre
sentatives in the amendments to this bill.
Mr. Falter reported from the commit
tee on enrolled bills, that they had exami
ned the enrolled bill, entitled, " An ast
directing a detachment from the militia
of the United States," and the " Reso
lution to authorize the President to grant
clearances in the cases of ships or vessels
now loaded, and bound to any port be
yond /the Caps of Good Hope ; and that
they were duly enrolled.
A mefTage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr, Beckley their Cleik :
" Mr. President—The Speaker of the
House of Representatives having signed
an enrolled hill, and an enrolled resolution,
I am directed to bring them to the Senate
for the signature of the Vicc-Prefjdent
And he withdrew.
The Vice-President signed the enrolled
bill and enrolled resolution last reported to
have been examined, and they were deliver
ed to the committee to be laid before the
•the President of the United States.
The Senate adjourned toil o'clock to
morrow morning.
Thursday May Bth 1794.
Mr. Foster reported from the commit
tee 011 enrolled bills, that they had ex
amined the bill, entitled," An ast forthe
remiflion of the duties 011 eleven hoglheads
of coffee which have been destroyed by
fire," and that it was duly enrolled.
A meflage from the House of Represen
tatives by Mr. Beckley then clerk:
" Mr. President—The House of Re
prefentati\es agree to the amendment
of the Senate to the bill, entitled, " An
ast fuplemcntary to " An ast to pro
vide for the defence of eertain ports and
harbors in the United States."
" They have pafTcd the bill, sent from,
Senate for concurrence, entitled, " An ast
toereft a Eight lioufe on the headland
of Cape Hat. teras ; and a lighted beacon
on Occacock Island in the State of North
Carolina," with amendments, in which
they deiire the concurrence of the Senate.
" The Speaker of the House ofßeprc- ;
fehtatives having signed ah enrolled bill, 1 1
am to bring it to the Senate for
the signature of the Vice-Prefident—" and
he withdrew.
The Vice-President signed the enrolled
bill, entitled, " An ast for the remission
of the duties on eleven hogsheads of coffee
which have been destroyed by fire," and
it was delivered to the committee to be
laid before the President of the United
States. . ,
Mr. Butler from the committee ap
pointed yesterday, on the motion for free
ing a part of the trade of the United
States from the operation of the present
embargo, reported
" That in their opiriion it is, not ad
vifeable to grant any partial enlargements
or permifiions for the departure of vessels
now embargoed."
Ordered, That this report lie on the
table.
The Senate proceeded to consider the
am.endment3 of the House of Representa
tives to the bill, entitled, " An ast to
ere£t a light-house on the head land of
Cape-Hatteras j and a lighted beacon on
Occacock Island in the state of North-
Carolina."
Resolved, That the Senate concur in
the amendments to the laid bill.
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the House of Representatives therewith.
Mr. Foster from the committee on en
loilcd bills, reported that they did yefter-'
day, lay the following enrolled bills and
enrolled resolution before the President of
tie United States, to wit, the bill enti
tled, " An ast directing a detachment
from tlie militia of the United States,"
the bill, entitled, " An. act providing for
raising and organizing a corps of artiller
ifti and engineers," and the " Resolution
to authorize the President to grant clear
antcs in the cases of fliips or now
loaded, and bound to any port beyond the
Cape of Good Hoj)e."
The engrofled bill prohibiting for a li
mted time, the exportation of arms and
arimunition, andencouragiug the import
ation of the fame, was read the third time.
Resolved, That this pass, that the title
thereof be, " An ast prohibiting for a li
mited time the exportation of arms and
ammunition, and the import
at;jiu i . fame.'''
Ordered, That the Secretary desire the
concurrence of the House of Representa
tives in this bill.
On motion,
Ordered, That Mr. Strong, Mr. Tay
lor and Mr. Butler, severally have leave /
of absence after this week.
On motion by Mr. Livetnore, the rule
was dispensed with, and permission given
to bring in a bill in addition to "The ast
for making further and more effectual
provision for the protection of the fron
tiers of the United States," which was
read the fit'ft time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
On motion,
Ordered, That Mr. Livermorf, Mr.
Jackson and Mr. Monioe, be a commit
tee to bring in a bill, to alter the time
for the next meeting ot Congress.
A meflage from' the House of. Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk.
" Mr. President—The President of the
United Stages hath notified the House of
Representatives that he did on the 7th
instant, approve and sign a " resolution
to authorize thfe President to grant clear
ances in the cases, of ships or veil'els
now loaded, and bound to any port be
yond the Cape ot Good Hope," and that
he this day, approved and signed,' " An
ast to eltablifh the poll-office and polt
roads within the United States"—And
he withdrew.
Mr. Livermore from the committee ap
pointed for the purpose, reported a bill to
alter the time for holding the next meet
ing of Congress, which was read the firft
time. \
Ordered, That the rule be so far dis
pensed with, as that this bill be now read
the second time.
Ordered, That this bill b« engrofled
for she third reading.
Mr. -Poller reported from the commit
tee on enrolled biils, that they had exa
mined the bill, entitled, " An ast fupple
-1 mentary to "An ast to provide for the
defence of certain ports and harbors*<n the
United States," and that it was enrolled.
A' message from the House of Repre
sentatives, by Mr. Beckley their Clerk ;
*
" Mr.-Prdident—The Speaker of the
House. of Representatives having signed
an enrolled bill, I am directed to bring it
to the Senate for the signature of the
Vice-Prefident." And-be withdrew.
The Vice-President signed the bill last
reported to have been examined, and "it
was delivered to tjie committee to be laid
before the President of the United States.
The Vice-President laid before the Se
nate, a letter from Samuel Meredith,
Treasurer of the United States, yvith his
account for the two quarters, closing the
3 ift of December 1793, as also hb War
Department account ending the yi'to of
March last.
The letter was read.
Ordered, That the letter and papers
therein referred to lie on the table.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
to mot raw morning.
Friday, May oth. 1794.
The bill in addition ty the Act for ma
king further and more efFechia] provision
for the prote&ion of the frontier* cf the
United States, was read the fecoridtime.
On motion to add the following as an
additional ieftion to the bill, to wit :
" And be it further enacted, that there
fta'il be allowed and paid, from and after
the firft day of June next, to each private
soldier now in service, or hereafter to be
enhfted, the additional pay of one dollar
per month, during the term of their re
fpe&ive eriliftment."
It palled in the negative—Yeas 7 —
Nays 16.
The yeas and nays being required by
one fifth of the Senators present—
Those who voted in the affirmative,
ate,
Messrs. Edwards, Henry, Jickfon, Lrv
ermore, Morris, Potts, and Rofs.
Those who voted in the negative, are,
Meflre.vßradford, Brown, Burr, Cut
ler, Ellfworth, Foftn, Frehnghrtyfen,
Gunrj, Hawkins, Izard, King, Langdon,
Martin, Monroe, Strong and Taylor.
On motion to strike out the following
words from th? third feftiou of the- bill,
to wit: «=■
" And under such special cireumftan
ces as in the opinion of the Ptefident'of '
the United States, may require an aug
mentation of some parts of their rations;
the President be authorized to direS such
arigmentation as he may judge rreeeflary,
not exceeding •" ▼
It pafled in the negative—Yeas 9 —
Nays 11.
The yeas arid nays being required by
one fifth of the Senators present; *
Those who voted in the affirmative,
are,
/ Meifrs. Burr, Cabot, Edwards, Haw
kins, Jackson, Martin, Monroe, Potts and
Rofs.
Those who*voted in the negative, are, .
Meflrs. Bradford, Brown, Ellfworth,
Foiler, Gunn, Izard, King, Langdon,
Eivermore, Morris and Strong.
Ordered, That this bill be engrafted
for a third reading.
(To he Continued.)
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 19.
Extrafl of a letter from St. Croix, dated
April 26.
" The island was never more amplv sup
plied with provrlii.ns than at present, several
importers are putting off their corn, & meal,
at 10 per cent under cost of what comes from
J> > 1
you.
ExtraS of another letter from St. Croix,
dated April 2 7.
" We had yeflerday a confirmation of the
embargo by a v.-fl'el winch accidentally efcap
id IroiH New Ilav n, which we contider an
eveni of but lictle terror to this cauntrv, be
in;; plated beyond the rea: h of want for at
leafiuix months, a r\d iarge imports of provi
sions daily expedled, and we are altogether
of opinion that your matters will soon be a
micibly adjufied with Great Britain."
70UNG J./JDIES' AC AD E MY.
[ At a public examination at the Moravian
church of the pupils belonging to laid aca
! demy, the 14U1 and 15th of May inft.
1 RT.'STS'E S PRESENT.
Mr. John Poor Principal, Rev. Dortor
- Magaw, *ev. Do&. ffclmuffc, Rev. Dort.
" l ? an %, Frederick Schmidt, Mr. Pela
tiah cbftej*, Joan £lb. Mr. e
- f er J Mr. John Ely and Do&. Ben
jamin-Say. Secretary.' «
Although no harsh treatment of any kind
be attem ted in this seminary, y?t the'habits
of gooo order are so fully elhblifecd, that
during the course of the examination thedecorum and that <iif;reet behavior
wlich grace the female charaifier (by the
pupils) were univerfailv obfertfed.
'i'he students were examined by dalles atul
premiums were adjudged by th.? trullecsand
conferred by the principal on the bell profi
cients in the different blanches of science in
i each class.
First Class.
To Mifc Kitty Wood &) n j, ,
Milt Hannah Wall is \ For £*° dbel,avJOr -
To Miis Hetty Leib, and ) r ~
Miss Hannah Shipley j For readl "°-
To Miss Hetty Reeley For writing.
T ° r i: ,K 7 air 7 I For Arithmetic,
and Mils Molly lira el )
To Miss Nancy Negus ) r r „ „ m „
j u i•• n- T t 'or Oram mar.
and Mils Eliza wok )
To Miss Ann Harker For Geography.
To Miss Lydia Wills For fthfctoric.
S'fcond Class. ,
To Mils Leah Bickerton For good behavior.
& C Reading.
Miss Molly Crauflon ) a
To Miss Sally Lane For Writing.
To Miss Sally Woglom For Arithmetic.
To Miss Eliza Gray For Grammar.
Third Qlass.
To Miss Eliza Wartman For good behavior.
To Miss Peggy Brewfter For Reading.
To Miss Eliza Morgan and ) „ ... . .
Miss Nan-y Page. | for Writing.
An adirefs deli vered by John Swan-wick E/q.
Young Ladies,
It is row about fix years ftnee on an occa
fton similar to the present I had the honor to
deliver in Mr. Brown's academy my senti
ments on the fubjedl of education, and to
bear my teftiinony in praise of the rapid
progcefs the arts and fcienjts were making
among us. You may easily imagine that it
is with peculiar fat : sfaflion, that after such
a !apfc of time I return to this place to pur
sue a f?vorite fubjedl of contemplation, and
to welcome in among the elegancies of sur
rounding nature, the superior attra<slioiis of
polilhed manners and of an improved civili
zation.
V. hen J think for a nhoment on the close
of th last year,.the difnial fctnes v.'ilh which
the autumn was peculiarly marked, the very
e-xtinairn of hope that seemed visible on the
faces of some of orj countrymen, what mull
be the tide of exultation at feeing once more
revive, amid all the pomp and luxuriance of
the opening year, the charms of health, and
of that health, devoted to augment the sum
of general happiness.
rile veiy rapid improvements of which
the trrittees are now vvitneffes flatter the
mote as they are only fynonimous with e
qual advances which our contry is gradual
ly experiencing in her public prtifpe&s.
Our citiesjK'cnijie ..more embellished, nnr
rroads improved, our communications in
land opened, our code of laws foftened
and meliorated, our charitable and ufeftil
eh..hliihnlents augmented and the general
Welfare of America promoted jufl in pro
poitioo as you ladies unfold the dawn of
that early lfeill and industry, the effects of
vhich aie to call fc bright a colouring on
succeeding years. '
Ambitious of profit from all European
patterns, America is still riling to an eleva
tion above them, from her zeal to carry
her improvemnnts more and more forward
towards the goal of perfedion. In Eu,
lope we hear indeed of famous* universi
ties and of literary honors conferred there
in, but these fcem demoted to one sex
alone, while in our country, the ladies be
come fairly our rivals, if not our fupe
nors in all the graces of education, and
bear away their diplomas like ours of pro
ficiency and of excellence in the various
branches of polite learning.
How important is the' consideration
n, °" W be tlie cafe > tl,a ' &ch
should be the care of female minds when
It is confide,-ed that they are probably to
give the calling complexion to the future
generations of America, into whose in
fant minds they will not fail to instill a full
value for the treasures for which they have
thcmfelves betn candidates, and into whose
youthful bosoms they will never omit to
ingraft that continued flock of patriotic
ardwtir for the equal rights and privileges
of roanifor which to the honor of the pre
ient age we have feeii it the avowed ad
locate, and for which'their own progeni
tors acquired such an immortality of fame
by the fuccefsfiil defence.
Happy, ladies, to be born in an age
ot such great attainments in which the
human mind is daily exerting itfeif in new
acquilitions of important .knowledge. In
which our peculiar country lias' pledff
fl 'i n lts n conft; ti"io«al act, that
schools (hall be eflablifhcd throughout the
e. 'B which, the poor shall be taudif
gratis; m which the care of etihYhteninrr j
and informing the citizens is made the
obligation and duty of the rovem
ment, and >~ which every specie, of igno
rance and barWm is generally cxplo
f r , )rl " ma y y ou I've as ornaments
of Mi an age and of such a country, the
k ll and the afyfum of the human
r raee to which nothing can more contribute,
e than the care, industry, and. zeal with
I which you Jiave pursued your studies, and
j for which the trullees have juit now a
wardea premiums to those who have ex
, celled ; rewards intended rather to excite
emulation, than to convey censure on
those who. do not receive them, lince it
is not doubted but such as may have now
fallen (hort'in this refpeet, will soon, by
superior diligence, become more fyccefsful
candidates for equally flattering difliuc
tion in future.
A gentleman is arrived in town from
Lexington in Kentuckey, which place he
left the ift of May. He informs that the
projetled expedition under Gerj. Clark is
totally broken up ; the Indians, we learn
continue their depredations.
Accounts are received that a veflcl ar
rived at Antigua, twenty three days since,
in 34 days from England, & brought in
telligence that the Islands of Guernsey &
Jersey were t„kcn by the French.
From the Royal Dau'ijh American
Gazette.
CIIRiSTIANbTJED, (St. Croix) April
26.
On Thursday last came to anchor here,the
j Eriglifh frigate Rose, of 18 guru, Captain
| Scot. On the next day, the Quebec frigate
of 36 guns, Capt. Rogers, and Bull Dog
sloop or" War, Capt. Browne, appeared oft'
this harbour—captains Scot and Rogers came
on shore. It is said these ships are in puri'uit
of .3 French vessels, that had made their cf
cape from Gaudaloupe with an immense
treasure, after the surrender of that ifl:md :
which we learn for certain took place on Sun
day last. Morne Pal jiieft was carried by
ft..rm. We hear that 'the English loft feve
rel hundred of their troops at the reduction
of this island ; at Point Pot re, the French
men liad struck tiieir colours, and the Engliih
troops had formed themlelves in order t-i en
ter, and take poireffion, when, the French
opened thcir, batteries again upon them, and
killed upwards of 100 men. The seamen
enraged at this, rushed on,with great imoe
tuolrty, and immediately ftorrried the carri
fon, which they carried with little or no loft.'
Upwards of-ijo Frenchmen were put to the
sword.
The Rose got under way yefterdav about
noon. Captains Rogers an.l S?ot embark- I
in the evening. Tliel'e ihips of war were
seen this morning llretching to the N.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, May i 7.
They write from Moutreal, April 21, that
an alarming fire broke out in that town on
the 18th ult.in a distillery, which copfumed
it, and the house and corn mill of Mr. Levv
loss, estimated from 10 to 12,c001.
ln At the Connecticut annual general election
J- in Hartford, on Thursday, last week, Sarn
-7 " c Huntington, Esq. was chosen Governor,
d Ohver \Volcott, Esq. Lieutenant governor,
u aru !" a vidDagget, Speaker of the House.
i- c • l t e . ks 0 Newfoundland, captain
■- fwamefpoke a cartel, with 400 prisoners
trom Martmico bound to St. Maloes.
x Captain Smith of the brig' Nancv,
in 18 days from J[eremie,we have inform'a
- tion that we believe authentic That
a packet had arrived at Barbadoes in 18
days from England, bearing" orders for cal-'
s ling 1,1 nil privateers, and restoring all A
merican vessels and cargoes. All British
1 port* are opened,and French ports all de
' clar*3 to be in a (late of siege. On the
1 arrival of these orders, a British frigate was
1 lent to blockade Aux-Cayes. This news
' was received at the Leeward before the
• Captain failed. He favv this iirtelligence
in the Jamaica papers—and he also saw
London papers brought by the packet.
From the Bermuda Gazette of the 3d in/I.
r " 0,1 arrived here the sloop
Independence, Thomas Young, mailer,
from Philadelphia. What her real buff
l 7 re ,s ' ,\ ve do not pretend to know ;
but, (lie is said to belong to Mr. Fitzliim
mons, a member of Congiefs, who by his
influence obtained permifiion to let her
come here to take away any American
lcamen that may wiih to return to Amer
ica, who belonged to any of the condem
ned vessels, &c. &c. The opinion on the
Continent was that a thousand or two of
them were here flawing and Withont
friends ; but the fact is, that only two or
three W American vessels have been con
demned here, and the crews have not heer,
obliged to wait a week-after, as there are
continually American or British, vessels
fading out from hence to the Continent or
the V\ eft Indies, none of which rcfufe
them a palfage. This sloop brought 110
cargo—At the time she left Philadelphia,
ute. J tlic embargo continued, and wis to be so
ith ; for 40 days from the 26th of March.
ind I Tin's is evidently to serve the cause of '.he
a- French regicide slaughterers, but we hope
;x- they will meet with a disappointment.
ite Many BntTfli veflels ate 111 the American
on ports, and the rudders unhung, to prevent
it their efcapipg. . ,
>w "We are informed that all the moniy
>y belonging to the British fuY>je£ts in the
:ul American funds, is seized upon by Con
ic- grefs,a3 a fecurlty tor the pretended depre
dations committed by the English priva
teers ; and we have a Philadelphia paper
m of April, which contains a debate in
le Congress on a proportion to confifcate all
le debts due to British in America, for the
is fame rcafon. As thefeareadsofinjuftice,
n there can be but little doubt that they will
be adopted. j>\ m ,
" We learn, that Mr. Jefferfon is font
r i o t!,e Court of Great Britain, with dif.
patches from Congress, to demand re (lit 11-
1- tion for all the property seized by die Bri
till p'ivatrcrs. I
" From the present proceedings of the
Congress, it appears to us, that the Amer
icans are likely to maice leeway soon ;an
enjbarga(or total itoppage to their tiade)
on all their merchantmen ; taieS to be le-.
vied for building fortifications, light
e bonfes, l aifing an army of foot and horse
11 for defence, and another to go againfl
e the Indians, and finally, to build a navy,
S will make them feet themfelvesin a manner
* t% have not been used to ; added to tbefe,
t where are their reteprces without trade or
without allies, for their great end good. |
: friends cannot affitt th.-ml
" The Indians have lately been very j
- rroublefome 011 the back i'ettlements of
America, murdering many of the inha
bitants."
1
1 BOSTON, May 13.
. Extraii of a Liter from Liverpool, dated
February 11.
" The bells of this town are now ring
ing to celebrate the capture of seven fail
of French Weft Indiamen brought in bee
by two only of our privateers—they could
have taken two others, but from a defici- j
;ncy of hands to put on board them.
" Five of the above ships are from St. '
Domingo, they are all fine veflels, and
richly laden."
Extract of a letter from London, received in
the lajl <oeJfd,
The campaign is opened ; there is
every reason to suppose it will be a vary j
Woody one. The French will give a good
account of themselves. General O'Hara
is a prisoner at Paris. The English have
offered 2000 French privates for his ran
som ; but the French reply, 16 we have
plenty of men already."
Arrived schooner Hawke, Capt. Clitpp,
in two days from Tobago, via St. Eufta
iia. Left at Tobago, schooner Phoenix,
Dighton, of Kennebeck, to fail in 8 days
for Boston; brig Nancy, Orne, from New
bury port, loft her c!| ck load and one an
chor, on the main ; brig Dispatch, Briard,
Portsmouth, (N. H.) to fail in 5 days;
brig Nautilus, Hooker, do. Sally, Phin
nef, Boston i sloop , Coffin, New-
York ; barque Hope, Bairbridge, of Phi
ladelphia ; brig Industry, Waite, of Port
[ land. Spoke a schooner of Salem, from
Calcutta, bound into St. Eullatia, for
provisions, 90 days passage. The matter
informed Capt. Clapp, that the ship Cle
opatra, was loft on tiie coast of Bangau,
and the crew, except the Do£tor, Carpen
ter, and two Seamen, penfhed ; and that
a ship from Boston, a whaleman, Rich,
Matter, was seized, and the cargo con
demned for English property, and Capt.
•Rich is in confinement. Capt. C. after
wards saw the above schooner boarded by a
privateer, in whose company he left her.
Capt. C. spoke .several veflels on his
passage, which had been carried into Mont
lerat, and other English .islands, and ac- '
quitted without even examining their pa- [
pers ; and many that had been libelled,
had recovered damages.
HALIFAX, April 29.
On Saturday arrived here the Portland
Packet, Capt. James, in 38 days from
Falmouth, with the February and March '
mails; our intelligence from home is now
to the 1 jtb ult. but nothing important has
occurred.
BARBADOES, April g. 1
1 leant by way of Antigua, that some
French democrats at St. Thomas's, had fit
ted out 4 -brigs, and failed from that IHand
fortFe ptirpefe of plundering and burning i
the town ot Tortola, but Admiral Jervis,bt •
ing apprised of their intention, ditpatehed
° J? a R ° fc frJgat * to illterce P t them, which Ihe ,
_ c.d, took oik- and diverted the reft.
* PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
a . ARRrVED. days
t Snip Juliana, Ingraham, Charleston n
Liiig liwallqw, Read, Antigua, 22
; Molly, Wills, St. Croix 14.
. Sch'r. Magdalen, Bells, St. Thomas' s2O
Andrew, Norton, Jamaica 30
Stock, Adams, Newbury-Port 9
Bell, Britts, North-Carolina 8
Sloop Ulabia, Wheeler, ditto 30
( Rooby, Davidion, New-York 2
I fcanny, Gilbert, New-London 4
Independence, Young, Bermuda 9
It is reported that there is a veffd ar
rived in the river from Oporto, whiah
brings an account that th* negociations
between the Portuguese and the Algerines
tl,e renewal of ttie Truce between thofc
powers, is broken otf, and that the truce
j_ is not to be renewed.
Authentic lift of LIBELLED velTels
e now in the harbor of St. George's
(Bermuda) handed by Mr. Meigs, who
11 lailed from thence on tbe sth inllant.
) Brig Cblumbia, Barnard, ofHudfon;
flo °P ;Betfey, Hathaway, of Dighton ;
brig Endeavor, Philips, of Bofto . ; (loop
■ Ruoy, Bradifh, of Baltimore - ; brig Bet
sey, furlong, ditto; schooner Thetis,
[ Jones, ditto 5 iloop Sally, Hayes, of Phi
ladelphia ; brig jane, Lillcbndge, ditto;
1 {loop l'ederal, Earl, of Rhode-lfland ;
ichooner , Smith, of Bolton,' from
M St. I iucia; schooner Little Cherub, Waite,
!ot Portland-—not yet adjudicated.
Brig Hiram, Stocking, of New-Lon
don ; schooner Mercy, Patten, of Charles
ton—condemned.
For st - t'roix,
The Sloop
INDUSTRY,
l.luyu .Vharton, Mailer.
SHE is intended 0 fui! with the firitveflils
ana can accommodate a few paflengers very
vell. Icr terms ;. r t ,.y to the Captain, or
WHARTON & GREEVES.
Md V "9- d6t
Books by auction.
On Wednefi'.av, Thiirfdav, and Saturday
next, at four o'clock in the afternoon, at
J. Connelly's Audion Store,
No. 78, south FrontJlrert,
id Will be continued the faleof a valuable
a Collection of BOOKS,
e Mostly t;wor in good condition, beginning
at No. i? 7 in the catalogue.
e Tfle y ™ay be Teen any day prior to the
sale ,rom 10 till 2 o'clock, at No. 26, Sprure
( street, wherecat-logues may be had and com
' mi.Tions received from aSy persons who can
not attend the sale.
May 19 dt|
; NEW
» ——————
; Mr. Fen Nell's Night.
" THIS EVENING, ;
May 19.
Will be performed,
, For the firll time here, an Hiftori'cal Plav,
called the
Surrender of Calais,
O R,
GALLIC PATRIOTISM.
Written ly George Co/man, jun. Esq.
King Edward, Mr. Moretoo
Sir YVahf r Mauny, Mr. Warrell
R'bemont, Mr. Fennel!
f; a Oiorre, Mr. Bates
fcuftare de Saint Pierre, Mr. Whitlock
John De Vitnne, jvir. Green
Citizens, MelTrs. Finch, Francis, &
Morris
Old Man, Mr. De Moulin
rje Mr. VV -mHI
' Mr. Marshall
9 I ? er ' ri , . . Mr - Blidett
John D A,ro, Mr. Cleveland
ift Gailows-maker, Mr.Harwood
ditto. ' Mr. Dai ley jun.
Mrs. Shaw
Madelon, Mr :. Marftall
, J u ' ia > , Mrs. Francis
In Art iff, n Procsflion and Solemn Dirge.
To which will be added,
A FARCE, in two A<sts, called
THE SULTAN;
Or, A Peep into the Seraglio.
On Wfdvesday, a COME >Y Called
NOTORIETY, v'ith a PANTOMIME
ENTERTAINMENT, for the Benefit of •
Mr. CHALMERS.
i j Mr. BATES's night ivill le on
FRIDAY.NANKEENS.
Nankeens of Superior Quality
FOR SALE AT
No; 40, north Fifth Street.
April 21. mw&ftf
S H 0 E S.
A quantity of (tout well made Men's size
SHOES, adapted for tae Southern market, tdr
a ]vL 76, North Third Jireet.
May 6 mwgdiot
Lately Published.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
THE BtiloTy.ot New-H<trm.{hiic, from ihe
Dilcoveiy ol th<- Ri'f Pifcataqua—by Je
remiah Belknap, D. D 3 Vols. Price 111 Boards,
4 I -2 D^Wrf-.
The Fotrcltcr, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the History ol John Bull the Clothier.
Prce, 75 Ceois.
A Djlcourft, intended to commemorate the
Discovery ol America by Christopher Colum
bus; delivered at the rtqvieft of the Historical
Society in Mjfbchulett'., Oaober 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Third Century,
frnce that memorable event. To which are
added, Four Difcrtations, comiefled with the
fubjetl —Bv the fame author. Price, 50 Cents.
March 17. tuih&^w
A New Novel.
To the LADIES of Philadelphia.
This Day is Pubiyhed by
MATHEW CAREY,
118, Market street,
£ ice, bound, ftve-eighihs'ot a dollar, Tewed
in piarble paper, halt a dollar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
' IN TWO VOLUMES.
By Mrs. RO of the New Theatre,
Phladelphia, Author of Victoria, the In
quifitothe Fiile de Chambre, &c.
Qf Charlotte y the Reviewers have given
the following character.
IT nri> be a Ta'le of Truth, for it is not
unnatural, and it is a tale of ieal diitrefs.
Charlotte, by the artifice of a teachei, recom
menced so a school, from humanity rather
than a con vt&ion of her integrity, or the re
gularity of her former condnft. is enticed
from her gov£n.ef>, and accompanies a young
•officer to America.—The marriage ceremo
ny, if not forgotten, is portioned, and Char
lotte d'es a martyr -o the inconstancy of the
ofrdr, and treachery of his friend —The litu
tions are artless and affcdting—defcrip
ations natural and pathetic; we should lee
for Charlotte if such a person ever existed,
who for one er or fcarcrly, perhaps, deserved
fS fevee a punishment. If it is a fi&ion,
p>eticjuftice is not, we think, properly dif
t ibuted
Said Carey has jujl publi/hed,
A 2 sheet map of Kentucky
CO lipiled by Elihu Barker, price or.e doiiar
and two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Germany, Spa n,ltaly, the United Provinces,
the Netherlands, and the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars.
Map of New JerlVy—Half a dollar.
Maps of Vermont, Connefticnr, Delaware,
Georgia Price three eighths of a dollar
April 29. tuth&s3w
Concluding Sales.
THE Subscriber having entered into Co
partnerftiip with Mr. Jthn Bartholomew in
the bufin*fs of Sugar Refining, will dispose
of the
Remaining Stock on hand
• CONSISTING OF
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c.
By K'holefale at Prime Cojl for Cajh.
John Dorfey,
No. 22, North 3d street.
April 1 . tnth&s6w
MADEIRA, I
SHERRY, |
PORT, jy WINES of the firft quality
LISBON, & |
TENEBIFFE J
Old Jamaica Spirit, Antigua and Weft India
Rum.
Coniac, French and Peach Brandies
Claret and Port Wine of a superior quality
in cases.
Wine Cyder and Vinegar, in pipes and hhds.
Corks in Bales, Havannah Segats in Boxes.
Philadelphia Porter, in Calks and Bottles.
London do. in do. do.
Philadelphia Ale and Beer in do. do.
London do. in do. do. and
Cyder :n barrels and bottles, preparedfor ex
portation or immediate use,
FOR SALE BY
Benjamin W- Moris,
The corner of Dock and Pear Jlreets,
W ere he has provided fuitablc ltores and
vaults, for the reception of
WINES, &c.
Which he proposes to ftor« or dispose of on
commission
Captainsof vefle's and others fupplicd with,
any ol t' e .ilove L QUORS botthd, i>nd lea
ltores in ge ie al pu up.
May 9 tu&l2m
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Houses or Public
Offices,
Two-brick 3 story Houses,
HAVING 6in<.in» m eicft, wiih fireplaces
bcrulc ganeib, ft uate on ihe Toulh westerly fide
of Dock ftv ci, between Pear and Walnut
(beets. Enqune J
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
April .7. tuth&yf
advertisement.
OF the money robbed froin the mail rear
Baltimore, by Doctor Gant, 110 dollars were
afterwards sent by an unknown hand, to the
Poftm after at Baltimore, who transmitted
the fame to t!ie Gmeral Port Office. The fnt
ferers by that robbery are delired to state the
amount of their lotfes respectively, and trans
mit the fame, with the origiual letters ot their
correfpondeuts (•yhtre recovered) or other
evidence thereof to the General Post Office,
before the firft day of June next, immediate
ly after which adividend will be made among
the claimants.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Pojl Majler General.
Gen. Poll Office, April 4, 1794 law s w
4 — T I
To the Ele&ors of the city and
county of Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
This being the last year of the present
Sheriff's time in office. I take the liber
ty to offer mvfelf a Candidate, and solicit
vour votes and interests in my favor, to plare
me on the return at the next general Elect or,
as his successor ftv fait! office ; in doing which,
you will confer an obligation that- will be
gratefully remembered, by
Your most obedient,
and.humble servant,
JOHN BAKER.
May 3. estf-
Just Imported,
In the ship Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peterjburgb in Rujjia, and now landing at
Ruffe-IPs wharf,
HEMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHhETINGS,
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And for file at the Uoi'e6 of the fubfciiber in
Walnut street, No. a
"John Donnaldfon.
April 4. di w w&<tt
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
No. 41, south SecondJlreel,
Extract of a letter from a gen
tleman in America to a I riend in England, on
the Subject of Emigration—price 1 Bth of a
dollar.
Ecclejiaftical Eftablijhmentt detrimental to
a State.
Price 1 8 of a Dollar.
April 22. mw&f3W
JUST "PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DOBSON,
leokfeller, at the Stone House in SecondJlreet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPAEDIA,
OR. A
Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, aud Mifcil
latieous Literature,
ON a plan entirely new ; by which the dif
ferent sciences and arts are digested into >he
form of diftindfc treatiTes or systems. This
volume co-.itains the articles, medals, medi
cine, metallurgy, metaphysics, methodists,
Mexico, microscope, midwifry, and a great
variety ot biographical and miscellaneous ar
tides, illustrated with nineteen copperplates,
(f3r The tables of" logarithms, &c. which
were deficient in the tenth volume, are sub
joined to this.
Eleven volumes of this work are now pub.
lifhed, and the Xllth is in some forwardnefs.
On the firft of September, 1792, the price
of fubfeription was increafbd TJ£N dollars or
all setts not taken before that time. The fub
feription is still open on these terms, and i
any copies remain by the firftof July next,th<
price will be raised TEN dollars more, 01
any copies which may be fubferibed for afte
that period.
%* As many of the fubferibers have takei
only two, three or four, See. volumes, they an
earnestly requested to take up and pay lor thi
remaining volumes, as it bccomfes difficult ti
complete the setts, and the publiflier does no
hold himfelf bouud to make up any setts afte
the firft day of July next.
April 22. m&tl 6w.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt."Crandon, fron
St. Peterlburg in Russia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK.
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-Ilreet.
March 4, 1794. diwjtawlf
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Batik of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
fe-veral of which have appeared in circulation
within a few days pajl; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be dlftinguifhed by the following
M A R K S.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL thai have appeared havs the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper,is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink nlore freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in die word Company isfmaller
than theM- and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
t» touch the top of the M. would extend con
siderably above the range of the whole word.
In the -word United the letters are narrow,
crand closer together than thsreft of the bill
The i and/in the word promise are not
parallel, the /inclining much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly cxecuted.the strokes
of all the Letters are stronger and- the devi. e
in themargin particularly ismuch coarfcr and
appeal's darker than in ihe Hue bills. Some
ai the counterfeits bear date in 1791—Where
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
b«r, and no five dollar were ill ued in
lhat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described ; the engraving is bcitei exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Tmen -
ty, in the body of the bill, are in number th.r
teen in the genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as defer ibed a
bove, the 0 being lels than them, and others
following. t
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters cnt in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do noi come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and 'hey go
ing below them.
The signature J. Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamb-black and
01, and differs from other mTU used in
printing the bills and the calhjer's signature.
It is luppofed these forgriies were commuted
i ill fomc of the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come Irom
ihence, and two persons have been apprehend
ed in Virginia, on lufpiciau of being ihe author
of them.
The ,eward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid 10 any Foj lon or Persons who Ilia 11
discover and profecutc to conviction the teveial
offenders of the following or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufactured
the paper on which the Bills arc printed.
The perfoo or perlons, who engraved the
plates.
The pririter or printers, of the bills.
Kvcry person who has a£led as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS.and the alphabetical mark is the let-
B.
They may be diftinguiflied from the genu
ine by the following MARKS :
The paper of the counterfeits is of a more
tender texture and glofley furface than the
genuine, and there is no water mark in them.
The letter C. in the word Cashier, in ihe
true bills is strongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, ihe whole letter is a fine hair
stroke, evidently in an unfinifhed state. The
letter a in the word demand, is bac ly lormed
and the whole word ill done, and tiiere is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
The marginal device, is much darker in
the falfe, than in the genuine bills owing to
the (hade strokes being eoar iei, much nearei
together and confequentiy much more nu
merous. This difference strikes the eye at firfi
view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, wi)l be paid for &
prosecuting to conviction the several abov<
described Offenders in to thi:;, as tc
; the laftdefcribed bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Picfiden
ol the 3<mk» United StaUs.
JOHN NIXON, Pi.hucnt of th<
flan l£ ol Ntwh America.
By order of the Committees of the Res
1 pe£t»ve hoards.
■ TO BE SOLD, 7
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
JN an eligible fitu&tion, —also a Country Sea
wuhin 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres 0
land, or 42 afcres of [and and meadow, tin
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinit
of the city, in or convenience.
For particular apply to the printer.
m&thtf
>
Beef, Pork, and Butter.
BEEF, prime and cargo ot good oualiw
PORK, prime and cargo of do.
BURLINGTON PORK
BUTTER, in firkins
ALSO,
A CARGO OF
MA H 0 G A NT,
Landing at John Weft's Lumber Yard, near
Pool's Eridg , from on board the Fail Ameri
can, from the Bav of Honduras, and
3000 bushels of Good Wheat,
for salr by
JOHN SKYRIN,
No- 35, No. Water Street.
'*■ *
Just Publiffied,
A one handsome volume, imo. Price 5s
and for sale by
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 47, Chefuut
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
1 eyleriar* Society ,it Haarlem.
Cor reded and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
Profeflor of Moral PJtilofophy, and the Law
tD . re ' a " dof Ecdefiaftical Hiftoi y :
and Mtnifter of the English Chuichat V.
trecht.
Ahquid semper ad communem utilitatem af
ferendnm
m r- n Cicero.
The Firjt American Edition.
'"pHEgrand principle of Equality, if right-
A ly understood, is the only basis 011 which
umverfal justice, (acred order, and perfect
treedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly lecured. 'I>e view <,f it exhibited in this
eflay, at the fame time that it rcprefles the
'n Cole nee of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages ot opprcijion ; confirn 9, in the
molt forcible manner, the necessity of fubov
dinat o t, and the just demands of law ful au
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftinftion,
draws more clo/ely every social tie, unites in
one harmonious and j'uftly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together 011 the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obli ation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. tuts
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representatives,
■*- - *-fl 1793. k
WHEREAS the Commiflioners of public ■
Accounts, h-vc reported, that they can
not proceed to the Hive (ligation of the Treasury
Accounts, refpr&ing fp cial Indents, without
knowing the outftanduig amount thereof in cir
culation :—Therefore,
Rejulvtd, That all holders of special Indents
be directed, and rdquir. o, on or before the firft
day of November n xt, to deliver the fp< cial In
dents in their pofleflion ro one or other of the
Commiflioners of the Treasury, who arc to give -
receipts for the fame, and to rep >rt to tfaeCom
mifTioncrson public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November nerct, the amount by
theno refpe&ively received, and *lfo to the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next,
and that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treafuuy as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, ihall be, and the fajne are
heieby barred.
Rejolved, That public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And that the of this
State in the Congrels ol the United S ates, be re
quested to cause this rcioluiion to be published
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for the expenccs attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
•Senate for their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
December 21(1,1793.
Rejolved, That this House do concur with the
House of Representatives in the foregoing reso
lutions.
Ordered, That the resolutions be sent to the
House ot Reprelentativcs.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b<gs leave to of
f-r his feTvicesto his friends and others,in the
line ol a Stock Broker. *Thol> who may please
to favor him with their bufincfs, may depmd
upon having it tranla£led with the utmost fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other partof the United Siatc* f will be.siri6lly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKtR.
m&ihtf
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No J
South Fourth-Street.