jd£ f|t Iftttiftji) jip> fett£o
EVENING A*!) V E R T I S E R.
[No. ioi of Vol. V.] Wednesday, April 9,' .1794. [Whole No. 560.]
For Amsterdam,
—j_ The new faft-fiiting, copfer
bottomed SHIP
f||g ADRIAN A,
rfciii K. Fitzpatjfck, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or palTage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
booid at Walnut ftrcet wharf, or to
TIIOS. iy JOHN ZETLAND.
N. B. Pafcngers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794- dtf
For Norfolk & Fredericksburgh,
Jphn Earl, Master.
A itaiinoh grtod velTel, will fail in a few
days. Fw freight'«r p fiage, Appier to the
matter "on boaraat Ghtfiiui: Hreet wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONY & SON.
March 31. dtf
For Sale or Charter,
t^^QjNDROMJCHE,
John Moore, Master.
"Tsa ftuut good velT.'l, about two years old,
bor: lien or, liai unity made three voy
age*, a>>d may befent to sea at a small ex
pence. Sfic mavlwfeen at Vine-str e et wharf,
and the terms m <"ie known by application to
WHARTON c d LEWIS.
March !•. dtf
The Profits arifitigfrom t e follo-ivmg publi
cation 'are for the benefit of the Poor.
Just publiihcd, printed by R. Aitk.cn and
' i"a&aUbßifc, ■!£. -Young
T. JDobfon, and the other Bookftllers,
MINUTES
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed on toe 14th September 1793, by
the Citizens of Philadelphia, the Northern
Liberties, andthe Dtftrift of Southwark,
to attend to and alleviate the fufferings of
the afflt&ed with the Malignant Fever,pre
vaient, in t'u» Citv and its vicinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
A lift of persons admitted into the Hospi
tal at Bulh hiil, (hewing the times of their
admission, death end di'fcharee.
Number of Houfrs, Deaths, See. in the
sefpe£ti-ve:ftreets, alleys, and courts in the
c.ty o( Philadelphia, Noithcrn Liberties, and
jfcii&iMik of Southwak.
A iift of ihe Intements in the Burial
grounds iii the city of Philadelphia, Northern
liberties, and DiftriA of Southwark, with a
jn -teorological account of the weather.
A fuaimary of donations in cacti and provi
fioni, received from funry pprfens aad
ces, for cbe jifxof the poor and afßitted.
'1 2. djw
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Ai/tllerdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Duck,
D'tto Oznaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Class Ware, viz. Tamblers and Mugs, -va
rious fiz.es.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square andflat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c. (sfc.
FOR SALF. BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun. >.
The Above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
fbauhlapplication be made within a few days ;
Vberwife she will take freight for Amjler
dam.
Mar ch », 1794- d—tf
TO BE SOLD,"
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
TN-an eligible fituttion,—alfo a Country Seat
J. within 6 milts of the City, with 9 acres of
I 'ar 43 4crcs oi * anc * and meadow, the i
Jtfofcfe is pot exceeded by many in the vicinity t
at t'6 city, in size or c >nvenience.
terms apply to tue printer. ,
_ Jaimarv 23. m&th-rt
IMPORTED
In ibe Brig George and Harriet, from
' ? Havre de Grace,
AMD FOR SALE BY
Louis Ofmont,
A PERFECT
Assortment of Hanging Paper,
high coloured and plain.
White silk Stockings, high dreifed and put
up English fifhion.
The handsomest artificial Flowers apd Fea
thers. ,
Some Looking Giafs Plaies to be fold by the
cafe.
A few hampers of Champaigns wine fix
years old.
ALSO,
An elegant parcel of
Bearikin MulTs,
And very beautiful Silk Cloak*, -which on
account of the Xeafori will be I'ftW low, atici at
a long ci cdic. rr y
LIKEWISE
42 pipes Madeira wine,
and a few calks of Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
He will have for Jale,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Lacea,
Leghorn hats, &BS and cambricks, claret in
cases, a quantity of window glais well sort
ed of all fi^e s , and a few pair of remarkable
Looking GlafTes framed, all arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
March 22. dtf
F O R SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
fupcrior quality in pipes, imported in the lhip
Wilmington. __
- OTtJtrf+ftßßY WINE of tlie firfl quality
in quarter calks, imported in thebrig Nancy
capr. Gsvin. i'r m Cadiz.
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RAISINS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIFFE WINES,in pipes
lihds. and quarter calks, imported in the lhip
Thomas, capt. Skinner.
A few quarter calki of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Who has also, jnft arrived and for l'ale
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lijbon Salt.
A quantity of empty BAGS for sale.
April 5. diw w&sim.
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street :—
A few Bales of Ruflia Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cafest
A Quantity of Brimstone,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. 20. 3'aw6w
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
AH commiflions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic. »
Philadelphia, Ventafe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivifibfc
(March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
The Mimfter Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
Ihe Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are requested to republilh the
foregoing notice. d
' NORRIS-COUKT,
Back of the New Liirvy, between Chefiiut
and Walni I-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he contiuues
carrying on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
I Likewise, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
for doors or window-(hutters,dont in the mod
elegant manner, and with dil'patch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
Decetiibii 30,
H>PHIII' ,l ,i. jiiiuuw;
The Public are cautioned tc
le-jMre of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills oj
the Bank of the United States, and T-wenfj
Dollar Bills of the Bank, North America,
several of *wbich bwvc appeared, in circulation
within a few days pajl; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but tnty
bediftinguifhedby the falloagmg
marks.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture ot' is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company js smaller
than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top pi the M. would extend con
(lderably above the range of the whtile Mm it).
In the word United the letters are nartttw
erand closer together than th* teft,qf the biJl
-Ihe i and j iu tlie word uot
Wi'aitel, the f inclining much more'fol Ward
din tlit i.
Tin engraving is badly executod,the fttokes
ol all tlie Letters are stronger and -the device
ir the margin particularly isrouch coarferaiid
appears darker tlian in the true bills. Some
O. the Counterfeits bear date in 1791—Where
asthe Bank was not in operation till Decem
ber, and no five dollar bills were ifTued in
that year. .
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank gf North
-America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. loi their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly fjmilar
f° that of the counterfeit Five jjalfei Notes
above dcfci ibed; the engraving i« belter-exe
rted, and they approach neiier to the ap
pearance of thegenuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, art inliumfcer thir
oaen in the genuine bills, and but .twelve in
Ihe counterfeits.
Th'- word Company i« much lUce the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as described a
bove, the o being left than the m, and others
' fviiowmg. —
There is no stroke to the t in the word-AforM
whereas in the genuine bills tbeitFoke is well
defined.
The letters cnt in the word YwMy> to the
Idft hqnd at the bottom, do noi come down to
the line, but are to cut as to give an irregular
appearance to tile word, the Zsoand go.
ing below them.
The Signature J. Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with 1 anxp-black <and
oil, and differs from the other inks used sin
printing the bills and the caftirer's sftgnatuie.
It iuppofed*hefe forgeries were commuted j
in Come ot the Southern States, as all the coun- i
terfeits that have appeared, have come from |
thence, and two persons have been apjprotefrd
ed in Virginia, on fui'pic-ion of being the
•f them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND 4)011 ARb
will be paid to any Person or Peflonfcwho ftiali
discover and prosecute to convi&ion the 'fever*l
offenders ot the following descriptions or any
ol them, viz.
The peifon or persons, who manufa&ured
the paper on which the BiTls ate printed.'
The pei sou or per ions, who eagraved the
plates.
1 he printer or printers, ©f the bills.
Every person who has aded as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and Utter
ing the said bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Prdidew
of the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, Prefideot of the
Bank of North America.
By erder of the "Committees of the Ref
pc&ive Boards.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794. dtf.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogt!*eads and m cases of £p bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogfheadj, <md quarter calks,
FOR SALfc BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. tn, South Front ftrtet.
Jan. e, 1794. dtf
cr\ D $471?
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118.
Mai ket-S trcet,
An EiTay on Slavery,
Designed to exhibit in a new point of view
its effects on mora/s, indujtry, and the ft&it
foctety. Some lasts and calculations fire offered
to prove the labor ot freemen to be much more
produclive than that ot Jiaves ; that Countries are
rich, powerlul anrl happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the iruits of Iheir «wn
labor ; and hence the ntceffaty conclu&on, that
slavery is impolitic as well as itnjujl.
Price 25 Cents,
February 15. dtf '
> proposals
r for Printing by Subfcriftion,
An Original Novel, \
In Fa>f Vo/urnts, duodecimo,
* Dedicated, by Perjaiffion, to Mrs. Bingham,
. entitled,
Trials the Human Heart.
By Mrs. ROWSON,
1 J':^ L " W rbeat Phikdejphia, Author
, y'" oria > <nquiftior, Charlotte, Fille
<1* Chambre, &c. &c.
Z there's a pow'r above us,
« (And that tUe,ei S *11 Nature cnes aloud
Thro' all her he mult delight in
'* virtue,
" And that Which he delights jo, uiuft be
" happy." - . ' • • .
4 »«■'•»»»
« T he '° U '' fecur,d in ' her c *'< We,(wiles
At t<v: drawn dagger, & ric-fc.its point"
Conditions.
I 1 lie woijt to be piiiitcji with r neat ••■oe
on go o fl> Jpe ,' P e
oncV.^'^K 0 sob J fC, ' iherS?<iUr dolors bound,
one>lja(ll to be paid at the time of lubfcrihi. g.
"■ Ihe fuofcribers' names will be prefixed
of tiie undertaking.
u.*** s l ubftri P' i °ns are-received bv the Au
-2°/' tbe „/°'' ner Vf ' and Chefnut
C L Ci>rey, ftiee ' and Dobmn,
I lUdelphia—. Mr. Green, Annapolis—Mel'-
Vwt and S " C! "»Ptell, New,
Th > d Andrews
fake, and-Lai'km, B'ofton—M . Hafwel,
V erinont—*Me(lVs. Rice, and Edwards, Bal
timore—Mr. W..P. Y oU ug, Cbarlefton.
pnl mw&fjw
CONGRESS.
IN SENATE,
Tuesday, March 25.
£ continued/})
A jneflage from the House df R cpre .
Mr. Lambert—
" Mr. Prclidcnt-The House of Re
preventatives hftve palled a bin entitled,
Jin act transferring-, for ,a limited time,
of fuasand offences, from
the ai ft net to Dhe circuit court of New-
Hampshire, and assigned certain duties, in
respect to invalid pensioners, to the At
torney of the said dtftria," in which they
desire tie concttrreiiceofthc Senate. And
he withdrew.
The Ml Jail mentioned was read the
firft time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading,
Oswfcrmable to net ice given, Mr. Jack*
fori obtained leave to bring in a hill to
make provision for the widow and orphan
Children of Robert Forfyth who was killed
in Che ievvict ofVthe United Stjttes, wh'ielu
was read the firft time.
Ordered, 1 hat this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
On motion
Refolded, That Thttrfday next be as
signed to take into confideiatioii the ftatfc
of the nation.
Mr. Vming reported from the commit
tee that they this day laid the enrolled bill,
entitled, " an ast allowing to Major-Ge
neral la Fayette his pay and emoluments
whijc 111 the fervict of the United States"
before the Preiidemt of the United States.
Ihe Senate adjourned until 11 o'clock
to morrow morning.
WecHiefday, March 26th, 1794.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
prefenratives for concurrence, entitled
An ast limiting the time for prefeuting
claims for destroyed certificates of certain
descriptions," v.ds lead the third titoie.
Rrfolved, 1 hat this bill pass with a
mendments,
Ordered, That the Secretary defirc the
ct)lic&rrence of the House of Represen
tatives in the amendments to this bill.
A meflage from the House of Repre
fentarivet, by Mr. Beckley their Clerk :
" Mr. President—The House of Re
prtfeutatives have passed "A resolution
laying an embargo on the veflVls in the
ports of the United States, in which they
desire the concurrence of the Senate."'
And he withdrew.
The Senate took into consideration the
last mentioned resolution, laying an em-<o
fcargo, pti the vessels 10 the ports of the
United SttUe, and
Refolvft), That they do concur therein il
with the following amendment. ei
Line seventh, after the word " States t!
insert " Whether cleared or not." ti
«• Ordered, That the Secretary desire h
the concurrence of the Ho life of Repre
fentativesin the amendment. _ l '
Mr. Bradley reported from the commit- a
tee of elections, to whom was referred the p
credentials of the rfon. Kenfey Johns, ap- J t!
pointed by the executive of the state of o
Delaware, a Senator of Congiefs in place c
of the Hon. George Read, relignfd. h
Odertdi That the report lie for consi
deration., . . % J
TKe bill to make provision for the wi- 1:
dow and orphan childen of Robert I*oi- a
fyth; who was killed in die service of the c
United States, wai read the second time, i
On motionj 1
Ordered, That this bill be referred to «
Mr. EUftfrortk, Mr. Langdon and Mr. (
Strong,' to conlTder and report thereon. i
A m'effage from the HoUse of Repre- i
fefltaties by Mr. Beckley their clerk : ]
* Mr. Prefident —Th£ House of Re- i
prefentatives concur in the amendment ps I
the Senate to " The resolution, laying 1
an embargo on the vessels in jhe ports of
the United States,"—And he withdrew.
Mr: Vining from the committee on en
rolled bills, reported that they had exa
mined " The refbUition, laying an em
bargo on the refills in the ports of the
United States," and that it was duly en
rolled.
A mcflage from the House of Rspre
fentativesby Mr. Beckley their clerk:
" Mr. Prefident —The Speaker of the
House of Repreferitatives having signed
an enrolled resolution, I am directed to
bring it to the Senate for the signature of
the Vice-Prefident'' —And he withdrew.
The Vice-President fignfcd " The en
rolled resolution laying an embargo on the
vessels in the ports of the United States,
and"it was delivered to the .committee on
enrolled bills to be laid before the Presi
dent of the UnittJd States for his approba
tion.
Mr. Vining from the committee last
mentioned, reported, that they had this
day, laid the Taid enrolled resolution be
fore tlie President of the United States;
A meflage fwrn the House of Repre
fentativesby $Ir. Bec&lev their clerk :
" Mr. Preiiderit—The House of Re
preftntames have palled the bill, sent
front the Sedate for concurrence, entitled,
" an ast to authorize the President of the
United States in certain cases, to alter the
place sos holding.a fefiion of Congrcfs."
And he withdrew.
Mr. .Cabot from the committee to whom
was refer; ed the bill, sent from the House -
®f Rcprcfentatives for concurrence, enti
tled, " an ast to provide for placing buoys
on certain rocks off the harbor of New-
London, and in Providence river," re
ported amendments, which were read.
Ordered, That they lie for considera
tion.
On motion,
i Ordered, That the Senate be at present
under an iniunftion of fecrecv, in refpeft
to the amendmenrto the «rfotmion laying
an embargo on the vessels in the ports of
the United States.
The Senate adjourned until 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
Foreign Intelligence.
A BRIEF REVIEW
Of the lajl PROCEEDINGS if the
POLISH DIET.
The close of the Diet was worthy of
an afiembly, from which epoch Poland
may date her political annihilation, the
remembrance of which will remain deep
ly engraven on the hearts of the friends
of humanity and juftiee. The last fit
tings were remarkable for the turbulent
and precipitate manner in which they
hastened to finifh or murdi*r the greatest
concerns which wen. yet upon the Carpet.
Among these may be ranked the new
constitution. However efiential such an
object was for the trunk of the republic
which yet preserves the name of Poland
and Lithuania, no detailed discussion was
had upon the different articles which com
pose it. The project which had been
previously formed, was adopted with lit
tle variation. It was accepted in the
whole; and its acceptation was inferibed
on the registers, adding, « that it had been
read in the prtfence of the States, in confe
derated Diet assembled." j
About twenty Nuncios wanted to en- f
ter a arotell, it is true, agamft lome ot <
the articles ; but »<> attention was pud
either to their opinion or opposition ; and
this new form palled into a law, at lealt
for the prefeut ; but it cannot be said
how long it may lad, for it is not guar
ariteed, even b) Russia, It is remarked,
that the 15th article of the treaty of alli
ance between Russia and Poland exp.c'.y
provides, that no change (hall be made by
the king and the Republic, in the form
of government to be tltablilhed, but in
coticert with tlie JL'mpref* of Russia or
her fucceflors.
Thus, though (he h S s not guaranteed
the perpetuity of the new conftifution, it
is provided, that if it (hall ueqwhv any
alteration, such (hall uor f>e made with
out her consent. It h-J be«n published
in the Polifli tongue, and contains lour
parts, the, firft, the fundamental laws ; the
others proscribe rules for the Dietines, tue |j
different tribunals, the clergy, &c. A
nother ast parted at the end of the fitting-,
confirms the difmen"t$ ,f -rment of the Re
public } in eftablifliir.g three commissions
for fixing the limit 3 ; one for the confines
between Ruflia and Little Poland : ano
ther for those between Ruilia and the Po
lish Lithuania ; the third for regulating
frontiers with Poland—>t.ie
whole according to the treaty of Ccffioii
signed in the ratne of the Diet.
The treaty of commerce with Berlin
met with many difficulties, particularly
with regard to the duties on ilaple com
modities which the city of Dantzic en
joyed, when undei the sovereignty cf
Poland. However, the rfofe of tht Diet
was not deferred on that account, and
the further consideration was referred to
the new permanent council, and the conv
miffioncrs of the treasury. It lias finer
been concluded, one article excepter,
which is probably that of the commerciil
rights of Dantzic, which M. Buckhcltz
would not determine of himfelf, but di.-
patched a courier to Berlin for inftrufti
ons, which may authorize him to sign the
treaty. —Count de Sievers supported, du
ring the treaty, as much as poflibje tlie
ccmmeicial privileges of Poland 5 but in
a manner which in no way interrupted the
good understanding that subsisted between
him and the Prussian minister who tho't It
his duty, at the moment fhc l>rct was »-
botit to break up, t« teftify how amicable
the concert between him and the Ruffian
minister had been.—He therefore felicitat
ed the Diet, by a note on the alliance it
had concluded with the court of Pet erf
burgh ; and.he afiured ft, that the treaty
was so much the more agTeeable to the
king his matter, as the empress was his
friend and ally.
Poland, reduced to one third of its
former extint and strengtH, has loft a
proportional part of its reveuues. she
regulation of the finances has therefore
become more difficult. In the last fitting,
two loans were projected under the gua
rantee of her Ruffian majelty ; one of'
27,000,000 of Polifli florins, for the pay
ment of the particular debts of the King,
the other of 10000000 for the necessities
of the Republic.—The revenues of the
King's domains are particularly destined
to extinguish his debts.
The finances of the republic for the
future, by this dismemberment, will ufct
exceed 16,000,000 are produced by the
Polifli provinces, and 6,000,000 by the
remains of Lithuania. As these must
support the army and the other expences
of the civil lift, arid the revenues of the
King, they have been reduced a tjlird ;
and his Majesty will only hereafter draw
3,000,000 from the treafyry. The two
last fittings of the diet were exceedingly
turbulent. The discontent with the pro
ceedings of the Ruffian Ambaflador broke
out with great violence; aid the efferye
fcence of the oppofing'-Jjarty had nopther
confequncethan what a momentary agita
tion usually produces. A millitary order
had been abolished on the representation of
the Empress. The re-establishment of
the order was demanded and decreed. No
sooner had the decree paSed, than an offi.
cer appeared in the middle of the hall
with these diftfn&ive marks : he thanked
the King for having restored to the brave
Polilh army a decoration which it had so
well merited, in bravely defending its coun
try. The Nuncios all rose, and advanced
in a tumultuous manner towards the
throne, to kiss his Majesty's hands, and'
exprefled their gratitude to him. The de
cree, which could not fail to displease the
Ruffian Minister, pafled unexpectedly and
111 1 hur T- Tfce wife and virtuous Sta,
niflaus endeavored to rcprefs the diiordsr
cf these delibfrations, and to decline \he
ihajiks offered him. His eloquence ever '
temperate and magnanimous.
: Such was the end of that famous Diet
of Grodno, which terminated on the 24th
Xlov. As it was 1 efolved to dissolve it, the
bft fittings were so huryied, that hiany ar
ticles, which were to receive its tinal laoc
tian, were Dot read. The number to be
pal Ted on the 23d arid 24th were 112,
which were divided into three claffcs ; of
which the Secretary read only the title:
the firft class contained 40 projects relative
to the New Conflitution : the lecond, 32
DHpofitions of the bit Pitt held at Wsr
: saw, which wer« not revoked nor abroga
ted, as were the other laws made by that
1 Assembly; but whieu appeared to require
the confirmation of the present Diet:
the third class cdntained forms of decrees
on affairs. After the reading of the ti
tles, the fiiit 40 form? of dtcrees received,
the fanttion of the Stale, and were mane
formal law 6.
The fvla'rftial of the Diet received for
his trouble and good otf.ees during the fit
tings, a recompence of 100,000 Polish
fibrins; the Secretary, 20,000; and tire
Chancellor, 15,000. Counts Branicky
and Rzewufki, who were, with the Count
Staniflans Potocki, the firit to propose
the confederation of, Tergovica, resigned
their place of Grand and Little General
of the Crown : the fii-ft succeeded by the
chamberlain Ozarofki, the second by ge
neral Pulawfki, whe discharged latterly
the office of Marfoal of the General Con
federation,
Thus closed the fun&ions of an As
sembly, which', from the unfortunate eir
cumftances of the times, was forced to
seal the dismemberment of a once power
ful kingdom. The historian of the pas
sing period will be at a loss to make iiis
election in the variety of important eve.its
that will press upon his notice, and claim
his serious regard ; he will at once have ,
to record the most flagitious crimes that
ever disgraced humanity, and the hwheft
excellence that ever adorned it. From
the attrocities of French Legislators, he
will turn with rapture, with renovated en
thusiasm, to dwell upon the mild, and at
the fame manly virtuci of a ot
Poland. - , ,
For the GmzsiTf. fyfxrh.
Well said, Mr. Honcilus, stick at no
thing i (he-w us, you know how, to m.f
reprefent as well as to calumniate ; where
pray did you finrl from Mr. Z. that the
Orator afiurr.ed to htmfclf the merit of the
finaricier—all he laid claim to was, men iy
the merit of lending an helping hand, and
this no body can with truth deny him;
documents, of the most unaniwerabk kind,
are icady to prove if necelTary, from the
financier himfelf, and other officers of the
tritafury department of that time, that in
the public station filled by the Orator, he
acquitted himfelf with zeal and fidelity to
wards the United .States in their, it niggle
for independence, and this was all that
was contended for. The services of trie
financier himfelf ate too well known, and
too generally and too justly acknowledged,
tofuffer any diminution from the claim
faithful assistance rendered by any or by
all of those who had the honor and tie
happiness to be employed in the public
business of that day.
But pray Mr. Honeftus, who told you
that the Orator is so violently anxious fin
war ? his interest and his inclination are
as much'at least as your's can possibly be
for the preservation of peace and tranqui
lity ; nor dots he believe that these will be
disturbed ; no nation can get any thii g
by attempting it : and doubtless the (irm
nefs of our government, and the success of
its ailies, will effectually ward off the
ftormi
Be if you can, a little more good tem
pered Mr. Honettus, and believe that the
Orator can feel as well as you can, for h's
country by adoption, as well as for his
country by birth r To the former, ,every
consideration binds him, for the latter, he
feels the most poignant regret at feeing it
so wretchedly governed ; governed in a
manner to involve it and its friends every
where in misery and disgrace—-his father
was once a victim of this kind ; and not
withstanding all the generality hinted at,
would be so dill, but for the Orator's ha
ving provided an home for him, as veil a j 1
an handsome annual allowance, 011 which '
his chief fuppcrt has been founded ever
since.
,»* Wejhbmtt, <uibetutr the ceKtiV*.
bn /'not better close wit-: this 'uvr o.i.
V
Congress of the United States
HoUje of lieprefentatives
March 28.
Mr. Swift's obfenvations upon Mr. Dayton's.
propiftion, to fequefler Britijb
Mr. Swift remarked, that 011 the firft view
of the fubjedi, he had been inclined to favor
the pjropofition, not having attended, minute
ly to. the difliji&ion wade.by the la,wa of na
tions, refpeaing the peoperty of an enemy
liable to reprisal—but on a full inveftigafion,
of the fubjeit, and mature deliberation, he
was convinced that the proposition under
consideration would be a direct and mani
feft violation of the laws of nations—he was
therefore, clearly and decidedly opposed to
it's adoption—Gentlemen have said mucli
refpe&ing the infuhs and the injuries which
we have received from the British nation—
but Mr. S. conceived it to be unneceflarv
that gentlemen should ddcribe their infuhs
and injuries in the, highest colours to inflame
our paflions, and to animate our refexument '
—He believed that every gentleman in the
committee deeply felt the indignity which
hand been offered to their country, and was
convinced that Creat Britain had been guilty
of a violation of the laws of nations but
Under such cireumftances, it was our duty to
condudV with coolncfs, candor, and modera
tion —He thought that the heat and passion
which had been manifefted in the course of
the debate, were inconsistent with that digni
ty and propriety which ought to mark the
deliberations of the Legislature.
Mr. S. observed, that the conduit of the
British Court in regard to their concealing
in fßch a lingular manner, the order of the
6th of November, and the equivocal terms
in which it was exprefled, was greatly to
their dishonor. But he thought that the words
legal adjudication, would fairly admit of a
conftru<sHon that no American vefiel that '
Ihould be taken pursuant to that order, could
be liable to be condemned, unleft warranted
t>y the, laws of nations—There was reason
to apprehend that such was the intention of
the British Cabinet—and that the Coutts of
Admiralty in the Weft-Indies, in their con
demnations, had exceeded their jurifdi&ion,
and contraditfted the design of the Court of
London, recent intelligence confirmed the
idea—No information of these illegal tranf
a<Sions had yet been communicated to them
—It was poiiible that when that Court were
trade wjfri tinr iraff
sustained, tTTat they would award restitution
or compenfetion.—-Mr. S. remarked, that
"by the Tirws V no nation haJ "a right" %
to make reprisal for any injury till all other
means of obtaining justice had failed—that
it was our duty in the firft place, to repre
sent to the Court of Great Britain, the spoli
ations that had been made on our commerce
by the illegal condemnation of our vefltls—
that till we bad-done this, the laws of nations
would not warrant us to make reprisals on
the goods and cffeifU of the British nation—
That there was a possibility of obtaining a
fatisfaAory explanation of their conduit and
reparation for the injuries we had fullered—
It was therefore a proper tubjeit of negotia
tion—But he fa'id if thai nation will not do
lisjuftice, then-we are authorized to make
reprisals.
Mr, S. then observed, that when we had »
taken such steps as would authorize reprifa!—,
we Ihould be precluded by the laws of nation?
from adopting the proposition under confe
deration. He said that a gentleman from
Maryland, (Mr. Mercer) had yesterday as
serted, that Burlamaqui was the only autho
rity among the writers on the laws of nations
against the measure ; and that the opinion of
Vactel was in favor of it. Another gentleman
from Maryland, (Mr. Smith) had read a
paflage from Vattel, which he considered as
an authority in point, to juftify the seizing
of private debts—but not debts due from
the public—But if these gentlemen had tho
roughly examined Vattel, they would have
found iriftead of his being an authority in
then favor, he had in the most direit terms
maintained a contrary opinion—He then read
a paflage from Vattel, that shewed that
the effects of an enemy in a country at the
time of a declaration of war cannot be Siz
ed, but that the owner is entitled to a reason
able time to remove them—and another pas
sage which expressly declared, that by the
usage and custom of modern nations, public
and private debts are not the fubjeit of repri
sal. Mr. S. conceived that these rules were
founded in file highest wifdom —that all del ts
were contra&ed under a fenftion of public
faith, and an understanding that a war fhc 18
not render them liable to seizure or confisca
tion—that a moral obligation existed between
the comrafting parties for the payment of
the debts—and that no government could
ever have a right to violate a moral obliga
tion—That therefore by the law of nations
in all inft .nces where property comes into
the poffefiion of a nation by a confidence
reposed in their honor and faith —as in cafe
of public or private debts, such property can
never be the fubjeft of reprifaj, because this
would be to authorize a breach'of public
faith—but repr sals are always to be made on
I property in polTeiTion of the nation who has
| done the injury and which maybe taken with
| out any violation of thofc principles whichought to fce helifacred in time o£ war.
Mr. S. remarked that it had been fuggeit
t\ that the Britilh nation had been guilty
of a violation oi the laws of uations in their
treatment of us—and that therefore we were
cot bound to govern ourfelvesby that law in
®ur coilduil towards them-—This argument
however plausible he fald would not bear the
tell of examination —that all reprisals were
juftified only on the principle that the natioii
on whom reprisal is made has been guilty of :
a previous violation of the laws of nations —
When .* nation disregards that general law
fc,- which the conduit ofall independent com
munities towards each other Is to be regulat
ed the tine law points out the mode 6f re
drefs—lf" ther« has been no violatfon of that
law, there, can be no reprisal. .If there has
been a violation, then the feprifal rtvuft be
purl'uanttoQrfWV. &<"-& is the highetl. ib
furdity to lay, that because there has been an
infraction of a law which authorizes,! certain
mode of redreft, that we may pursue a dif
ferent mode 6f redress in violation of the law
which gives us the right: This would be at
once to renounce the whole fyltem of the lawS
gf nations, and threw mankind bark into a
state of savage barbarity and ferocity.
Mr. S. then adverted to the policy of the
meal'uie, He laid upon a fair oalculation, it
would be found that the adoption of the pro
pufition, would be productive of far greater
mjury to this country, than the aniounc of
the loifes fultained by our citizens, in confe
cu nce of the fpciliations committed upon
our commerce. It is evident that this coun
try> even admitting that a war lhould take
pia :e, would with to review their commerci
al connexion with Great Britain. But if in !
contempt of the law of nations, we seize on j
private debts, we iHall forevtr forfeit all cre
dit; no (rufi can be reposed in our citizens,
and no faith in our government. No foreign
Merchants willever deal on credit with wr
dtizeus, from a well-guirtted apprehension
that in caie of a 'war between the countries,
the'litred nature of private contradts will
not protect them against the hahd of a Go
vmiment flfl.ieh !:as exhibited the example of
a deliberate violation of the laws of nations.
When we consider the immenl'e advan;ages
that can be derived from private credit and
national honor, it will be easy to imagine
the uifcnke miichief that mull result from a
diiVegard of thofc principles.
Mr. .Swift obiefted to the meafilre on
the ground thai he considered it to be a
declaration of war—and he did not think
that the cireumftances required or juftified
our taking that ltep. He said that uot
withftanding the unwarrantable prcceed
; intra of the Britilh nation—yet, no ast
"liad been done, by tin. Court that
clearly indicated an intention to make wai
directly upon ns, or thtt could be coufr
cered as direct and intentional vrarj tho'
we might consider many of their a&s as
jaft causes of making war on our part.
The revocation of the order of the 6th
of November, the new inftruftion& of the
Bfh of, January, aiid the explanation giv
en t« the merchants of London, clcarly
evidenced that a war might be avoided
with that nation. While there was the
Temoteft poffibilityof preserving our peace,
we ought not. to do art ast tvhich might
endanger a war. While ther. the conduct
of the Britilh cabinet Would admit of an
pxpjanation, while there was a profpeft
that we might obtain by negoeiation, res
titution of the property of our citizens
or compensation for the lofles they had
fultained, we ought to pursue that mode
—but if we proceeded to make reprisals
by adapting an illegal rr. -dure, it mull
certainly be deemed a declaration of war.
The omiflion of the regular means of
obtaining latisfnftion by negotiation and
an itriwar antable mode of reprisal would cer
cei tainiv be jult causes of war. If ,ve mult
be driven into a war it would be of the
liightft advantage to us, to conduct in
inch ama mi i-1 as to convince the people
of Gieat Britain, that we sincerely wi(h
ed to avoid it, and that the unjust and ille
gal proceedings of their own Court have
been the sole cause of the war. In such
caff ire have reason to think, that so great
is the interest of that nation in preserving
our commercial connection, that a power
ful party will be formed in our favor to
oppole the injuitice of the I
The sentiments of the people-Will be a
•rainft the war, and the Court will find it
extremely difficult to maintain it under
iucli cireumftances.
Bnt, if without demanding an explana
tion, we proceed to adopt raft, violent,
and unwarrantable measures—the fpirft
of the nation will rife against us, and the
people will join the Court in prosecuting
a war which will be then deemed just and
neceflary.
Mr. Swift then observed that we ought
tnJake into canfideration the'prefent Ctu
rfrjon of Europe— that the late fuccefTes
-<>' the F '"*ach nation bad materially chan
ged the political profpeft. I t was poffi
.ble tha; these fucceflei had been the cause
v -hat! produced an alteration in the
views of the Briti/h Court. If events had
happened which had rendered the difpoli- i
tion of that natioh less unfriendly and hof- i
tile, we ought to take advantage of that
circumstance, and not do any thing to
check the progress of that favorable dif
polition. He most sincerely hoped that
their successes would convince the combi
ned powers of the impossibility to con
quer France,and produce a general pacifi
cation.
While such were the profpeft j he ar
dently wilhed that a measure repugnant to
the principles of common honesty and
■ common justice might berejeftea—and he
hoped that no gentleman in the commit
tee would vote in favor of a proposition
which would fix an indelible stigma on
Q ur national character.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 9.
There are letters in town from Antigua
of the 15th March, and from St. Etiftatia of
the 30th, to a refpeclable merchant of this
city—which fay that the condemnation of
American property has ceased in the Illands,
since the receipt of the late inftruclions fioin
the Britilh government.
By a gentleman just arrived from Lexing
ton, Kentucky, we are informed that Gen.
Wayne moved from his winter cantonmept,
■with the legion of the] United Stales, 011 the
ftrftof March, for the Miami Villages.
The fame gentleman alio informs,that-pre
vious to the march of the Legion, a duel
was fought by Lieut. Huflon of the 3d, and
Lieut. Bradlhaw, of the lit Sub Legion,
which terminated in the death of both, the
former having expired on the spot, and the
latter 10 houis after.
ExtraS of a Utter from a «tr.tkrr.n h> his
correfpondrfit in Ihis place, da'ed New
art, Bfh April, 1794.
" Mr. B. informs of the arrival of a
schooner it New-York on Saturday, from
St. Lucia in 17 days—the Captain re
lates that a fleet of 8 fail of the line had
arfived at Martinique from France, and
had landed s,cxjo men, wbo had cut off
the communication between the British
army and fle/t.
" The Captain faiv the fleet failing
' for Port-Royal Bay, in wliicli the IJotigh
ty Sir John Jarvis, was at anchor—vfe
may reasonably expect therefore that the
fiegc of Martinique may be converted in
to an attack on Jamaica.
" The Sans Culottes it is said, were
furnifhed with only three pounds, and
were ordered to rely on the bayonet."
Extract of a letter from a gentlemart hi St.
Martins, dated March 15, 1794.
" By the last accounts from Martinique,
of the id inlt. the whole ifiand, (except Fort
Bourbon) was in potTeffion of the British,
who had then 70 pieces of cannon and 14
taortars playing on the fort, which was de
fended only by 400 men—-the colored people
having delivered themselves up, on condition •
of their leaders being permitted to go to A
merica."
LONDON, January 21.
It is remarkable that the Portuguese,
who, for very many years, have not met
an enemy in the field, lhould have beat the
French the very firlt time they came to
blows with them ; and, though raw in
arms, made those troops fly, who had
more than once routed the best troops df
Spain. But this is an age of novelties.
The following particulars of the action
in which they were thus fuccefsful is too
authentic, and too glorious to the troops,
and to some of our countrymen who acted
with them, not to be made known to the
public.—The letter which brought the in
telligence to England was dated the 14th
of December.
" The Povtuguefe troops recently re
lieved General Ricardos from a difagrea
bk dilemma, in which he had fuffered the
French to out-general him. The French
having taken a circuitous march, had fe
cuied a post, find fortified it on and near
a bridge, in a defile where the General
war. marching through,to effect a junction
with the other troops, and by which
means he was cut off. General Ricardos
was consequently reduced to the necessity
of cutting his way through, or laying
down his arms. Information having by
some means been conveved to General
Forbes, they (the Portiigaeft j ioft not » I
moment in coming 10 General Ricartl
os's relief, and attacked the French
with such Heady bravery, that they carri- '
ed the poits, took qjany cannon and or -
loners, and effectually relieved the Spanish
General.
>i . • . *
" General Fortes had his l.orfe killed !
by. a ''Srho'i bail. He dun led rtu the I
in.liu jp'+'y <'« {<-Ot, K id g-'Hied the da\\
He WW pcrumally aflilivd by the Ij dke or'
Northumberland, iviuch praise is due to
Colonel Claviere, who led on the 2d Porte
regiment, and whose cunduit in a great
measure fccured the success of tde day."
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
arrived.
Ship Eagle, Hubble Oporto, 50
Schqoner Fly, Hcylander, Virginia, it
, Mille, Wtlfon, St. Euftatia, 16
Sloop Fair Haven, Bidcock, Egg Harbor.
Captain Hubble arrived here from O
porto in the ship Eagle, informs, that he
left there the following American vefiels 1
Ship William, Cogzey, Rhode-Island
Snow Fruity, Cook, Philadelphia
Brig Courtney, , Boston,
and two brigs belonging to Baltimore,
nalHes unknown—«-The above vefTels were
to fail ihortly for their refpecftivc ports.
Captain Hubble on the 13th February,
spoke the (hip Catharine, Capt. M'Collin
of this port laying at anchor in the road,
inward bound. The schooner Betsy of
Beverly, had arrived at Oporto—the capt.
mate, and two hands balonging tb the
Betfy,were washed overboard by a heavy
sea, 1J days after leaving Beverly. Capt.
Hubble on the 2 7th ult. spoke the fchoo.
ner Fair Lady, Capt. Thompson of New-
York, lat. 32, 30 —out n days, bound
to Bermuda.
By Capt. Harden, in 12 days from i St.
Thomas's we arc informed that the En gHh
privateers have ceased capturing American
veilV.s, in confequetlce of some late' inftruc
tiora—That provisions were so low there and
at feme of the other islands, that he was ne
cefljtated to bring back part of his cargo —
that a few days previous to his failing from
$t. Thomas's, he was at St. Sufrea, and that
while he was there, a canoe came in from
Fort Bourbon, by which a gentleman at that
plate, had received a letter from Gen. Uo
chan»beau,who commands the French troops
Rationed at Fort Bourbon, informing that
he had provisions enough to iaft 18 months
without an additional l'upply.
Capt. Hughes arrived here, informs that
previous to hie failing from St. Thomas's ac
counts were received therefrom St, Croix,
wkich mentioned, that about 40 fail of Ame
liun vcflels were there, all preparing to fail
for their refpe«slivfc ports.
• ~ Arrivcdot New-York, April &,
Ship Jenny, Ch.uncy, Savannah
Schrs. Maria, Collins, Beniera
Polly, Edwards, Marigallante
Capt. Smith of Providence, in a brig,
failed from Jackmell, in company with
Capt. Rancy, and was next day captuied
in light of her;
The schooner Induflry, Capt. Adams,
bound to Peterfburgh, Virginia, failed
from Marigallante, in company with
Capt. Edwards, of the Polly, who saw
her captured the next day, after failing,by
a Britilh privateer.
The lnduftry and.her cargo, confiding
of sugar and coffee, were owned by Mr.
Myers, of Virginia.
C?" The Editor is much obliged to the
writer of the piece signed " A Friend to Re
publican Frte4om." A' it takes up the fuk
jeß on general principles, it merits a prefer
ence to any remarks which might have been
Contemplated in answer to the personal at
tack in the Independent Gazetteer of this
morning.—lt Jhall appear to-morrow.
P oft-Office, April 8, 1794.
(CJ* Letters to go by the opportunity
expected for Halifax, in the course of
next week, in order to be conveyed by
the Britilh Packet, from that place to
Englafid, will be received at this Office,
until Saturday at 12 o'Clock noon.
N. B. The inland poltage to New-York
tnuft be paid.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE accidental breaking of a bench in
the New Theatre, having- created an alarm
during the performance erf Monday evening
last, the Managers, ever anxious to remove
the slightest cause of apprehension, have ta
lc: n this occasion to survey the building, and
with pleasure inform the public, that alter a
ltriift examination, Major L'Enfant, Capt.
Sadler, and Mr. John Harrifon, confidently
pronounce that no ftruclui e was ever, more
iecure; and that no weight of any number
of people which it is pofiible to admit into
the Theatre, can in any degree impair that
feeurity.
(Signed)
iVIGNELL fcf REINAGLE.
Philad. April 9. 1
A letter "ron S.> lem oMie ;jft of March
Siys, " v.:Vcl is arrived at Marb. : eliead
sri inß lbja, - h -ii left thai place the 30th
Jaiuaiy, and lr rigs an account that the
I'tu'iiani had !ett the combined armies, and
returned home."
1 Hvufe of Reprrfentjtives, dpril 9.
'Mr. Clark's moti n, for {topping the
commercial intircourle between the United
States ana Great Britain, and Ireland, was
difeuued this day in committee of the whole
—No deciiion took place,progrefsreported.
A NEW SONG,
Sung by Mr. Dari.ey in the Comic Ope
ra of the Highland Ren,.
The Words by Mrs. Rutvfon. _
A Si.lditr is the noblest name
Enroll'd upon the lifts of fame,
His country's pride aud boall j
HoruJar the glorious bright reward,
For which the hero draws his sword,
Should ne'er be ftain'd or loft.
To guard our rights and liberty,
Our duty and our care ;
The brave and worthy to refpedl, »
And to the verge of life protect
The innocent and and fair.
When glory led our squadrons forth,'
Her influence lpread from south to north,
There freedom soon appear'-! ;
'Twas there she found her fav'rite son,
1 hrough all the world his name is .known,
Through all the world rever'jl.
And smiling thus the Goddess spoke,
Columbia's sons draw near ;
A soldier's duty ne'er forget,
Behold the gr -at example set, •
The school of honour's here," *
Loft last Night,
Between Second and Seventh streets, a
Red Morroeco Pocket Book, *
C ntaining a few private letters and a bill
of xenange, dated Chartefton, March ,
lira Kn \>y John Mianick on Philip Care, in i'a
vor of Sims White, which can be of 110 life
io any on: but rhe owner, whoever has found
she Tame, and will deliver it atlfrael Israel's
Inn, ihall be haDti.ouiey rewarded.
April g.
- - - '
V/ANTED,
A PRESSMAN,
Apply at this Office.
NEW THEATRE.
' TIMS EVENWGt
April 9. '
"Will bs performed,
A COMEDY, called the
RIVALS.
Sir Anthony Ahfolute, Mr. Morris
Capt.in Absolute, Mr. Chalmers
Mr. Fe;mel
Acres, Mr. Batts
Sir Lucius O'Trigger, Mr. Whitlock
Tag, Mr. Marshall
David, Mr. Francis
Coachman, Mr. Warrell
Boy, . Master J. Warrell x
Mrs. Malaprop, Mrs. Shaw
Lytlia Laaguifh, Mrs. Marshall
Julia, Mrs. Francis
Lucy, Mrs. Rowfon
End of the Comedy,
A Pantomimical Dance, called
The Sailor s Landlady,
OR
' jack in Diftrfcfs.
To which will be added,
A COMIC OPERA, in two acts, called
the
Agreeable Surprize.
(Written by the author of the Poor Soldier.)
Sir Felix Friendly, Mr. Finch
Compton, Mr. Darley
Eugene, Mr. Marihail
Chicane, Mr. Warrell
Jnhn, Mr. Francis
Thomas, Mr. Greea /
F-rmer Stump, Mr. Harwocd
Cudden, jVJ r - BlUIetS:
L.ngt), Mr. Bates
Lilira, Mrs. MarlhaH
Mrs. Clielhire, Mrs. Shaw
Cowslip, Miss Broadhurft
Fringe, Mrs. Rowfon
Places in the Boxes to be taken at the Box-
Office of the Theatre, at any hour fromnine,
in the morning till three o'clock in the after
noon, n the day of performance. Tickets
to be hid at the office near the Theatre, at
she corner of Sixth-flreet,and at Carr Sc Ct>'»
Muficalßepolitory, No. in, Market-street
* % * As inconveniences to the public have
arjfen from the Box book being open on the
days of performance only, in future attende
ance will be at the office in the Theatre 1
every day from ten 'till one, and on the days
of performance from ten.ti.il three o'clock in
the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, it i»
retpectfuHy reonefted, may be addressed, M
1 Mr. Franklin, at the Box Office.
| Boxes, one dollar —-Pitt, three quarter
I of a dollar —and Gailery, half 3 dollar.Samuel Coates,
f At his Store, No. 82, fifth FrontJlreet,
HATH FOR SALE,
94 Barrels
New England Beef,
29 barrels liv< r oil,
95 barrels Cider,
92 boxca of C+ndlcs,
* ( s©o pdtr of men'* leather (hoes
. 642 buttleU oi Barley
A quantity of Tow Linen
D tto, ofNew-England Soal leather
40 bags of excellent corton
4 hwxes of Chocolate
' 3000 wt. of Alfpice
+00 cafos of th« best Holland gin.
Ap. 1 i. *<-odz
For Salt b) the Subscribers,
MUSCOVADO Sugar in hhds. &, bb»l.
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, in pipes
and quarter calks.
Spanifli indigo.
Bolton Beef, in barrels.
And a finall invoice of Muslins.
NALISRO' & JOHN FRAZIER,
No. 164, South Front-street.
It* t- O (muriiiu
March 8. fmw4w
The annrial election
FOR
Dire&ors and a Treasurer
OF THE
Library Company of Philadelphia,
WILL i>e Ireld at the Lijuary, in Fifth
ftrect, on Monday the fifth oi May next, as
" ' afternoon, when the tre'
re u ~
threeo'clock in the afternoon, when the trea
ftuer will attend to receive the annual pay
ments.
As there are several lhares on which fines
are doe, the owners of them, or their repie
fentativei, are hereby notified, that they will
be forfeited, agreeably to the l*ws of the
Company, unleJs the laid arrears are paid off
on the fifth day of Ma}, or within ten days
affer.
By Order of the Directors.
BENJAMIN R. MORGAN,
Secretary
April 7. m&w t sth May.
J 11ft Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
-St. Petersburg in ltuffia,
And now landing at South-ftrect Wharf, viz.
XJEMP,
XI BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No". 21, Walnut-street.
March 4,1794. diw.^tawtf
The following Certifi
caje of the funded three per Ceijt Stock of the
Dom.iltc Debt ot the United States ftandingon
the books of the Trealury of the said United
Stales, in the names of Donnald and Burion of
London* meichants, and signed by Joieph
Noutft, Regift?*r of said Trtafury, to wit
No. 5476, datqd 24th Augult 1792 for 2959
dollar.-" and $3 cents was transmitted from Lon
don in the ihip Peter, Paul HuiTey, mailer,
bound for New York, and has been loft.—
The Subtcnber intending to apply to the Trea
sury of the United States to have the fame re
newed, defues all perfous who are interested in
he said certificate, to make their objections
hereto, if any they have.
Francis Maey.
Phi!id. March 17. d6w
TO~BE SOLD,
ind entered upon the firft of May,
The noted EJlate, called
JohnJon Hall:
Lying in the Moha «vk country, ftateofNew
(oik, tormedy the feat of Sir William John
on, containing about seven hundred acres of
and, which is of the very4xll quality ; toge
ther with the flock, and farming utenltls. The
buildings arc large and convenient, aud fit for
• gentleman'® feat. The payments will be made
easy, on good security. For further particulars
enquire of George Metcalf, Esq. on the premif
<•«, of Silas Talbot, Esq. at Philadelphia, of
Samuel Ward and Brothers, in New York, or
of t'tie ftibfcriber in Providence.
Jabe% Boiven.
Phildd. March 26 mw&iim
Philadelphia, Marchi, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHEW CAREY,
No. 11,8, Market Jlreet,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OK
Modern Geography:
OR. A
Geographical, Hijiorical\ and
Commercial Grammar;
A*rf present ft«c* »f ibe federal
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAINING,
I. Thr figures, motions, and distances of
the planets, according to rhe Newtonian sys
tem ind the latest observations.
3. A genera/ view' of the earth, considered
as a planet; with several ufei'u! geographical
definitions and problems.
3. The grand diyifinns of the globe into
land and water, continent»*i>«l islands.
4. The situation *nd extent of empires,
kingdoms, states, provinces and colonies.
j. Their climate;, air, foil, vegetables,
metals, mineralji, natural curi
oiitie!, seas, rivers, bays, c;»pes, promontories,
aud lakes.
6. The birds and beads peculiar to each
country.
7. Observations 011 the changes that have
been any where oblerved upon the face of na
tare since the inult eaqy pariods of history.
?. Tlie history and origin of nations; theii
forms of, government, religion, Jaws, reve
nues, ttfxes, and military strength.
9. The genius, maimers, cpftoms, and ha
bits of the people.
10. Their language,learning,arts,fciences,
manufactures, and commerce
-11. The chief cities, ftruftures, ruins, and
artificial ciiriofities
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
distances of principal places from Philadelphia.
To which are added,
1. A Geographical Index, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Table of the Coins of all nations, and
their value in dollars and cents.
„ 3. A Chronological remarkable
eveuts, from the creation to the present time.
Ey WILLIAM GUTHRIE, E/q.
The Astronomical Part corrected by
Dr. Rittenhouse.
To which have been added,
The late Discoveries ol'Dr- Herschell,
and other eminent Astronomers.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrcfted, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firft volume contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, beftdes two Agronomical Plates,
viz
t. Map of the world. 2. Chsrtof the world.
3. Europe. 4. Asia. J. Africa. 6. South
Afnerica 7. Cook's discoveries. 8. Coun
.tries round the north Pole. 9- Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway, so. Seven United Pro
vinces. xi Austrian, French and Dutch j«Js
therl.ands. 12. Germany. 13. Seat of war
fti France. 14. France divided into depart
ments. 15. Switzerland. 16. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
18. Tu key in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 20. Weft-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22. At
miliary sphere. 23. Copernican fyfteni.
With the second volume, which is now in
the press, will be given the following Maps 1
1. Rullia in Europe and Alia.
2. Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland^^^^^^^^^^^^
I -.
'i • •''■***•
■ »'4».a«j*e.ofNew-Jerikf. ..
Wflf
"> ■__ •*• ••: ; ■
20. State of North-Carolina.
21. Tepneffee Government.
22. State of South-CaroJina.
23. Stale of Georgia.
TERMS.
1. This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume od
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing) cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the fucceeding 1 volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finiflied, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The fubferiptiop will be raised on the firft
day of June 1794. to fourteen dollars, ex
clusive of binding.
J. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
iixteeu dollars, and the price of binding.
6. The names of the subscribers will be pub
lilhed as patrons of American literature,
arts, and feiencts.
It is Wholly unnecelTary to expatiate on the
advantage, to American readers, that this edi
tion poflefles, over ev*ry imported edition of
any system of Geography extsnt. The addit
tion of maps of the several procured a
a very great expense, and from the belt ma
terials that are attaiuabie, speaks such full
cwviaion on this fubjeft, that it would be
difiefpeft to the reader's understanding to
suppose it requisite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In 110
similar work have such maps baenever intro
duced.
The emendations and additions wfcuxh are
made io this work, are innumerable, and occui
in every page. The public are referred to
the preface for a flight lketch of a few of
them.
The publiflier takes the present opportu
nity of returning hi? most sincere thanks to
those refpcftabh: characters who have favored
hint with documents fpr improving the maps
of several of the dates. He requests a conti
nuance of their kindness j and hopes that such
public spirited citizens, as are poifeffed ot fi
mi'ur docmnents, will favor him with their
aflidance in perfecting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he has been favored, has excited
in his breall the warmed sentiments of grati
tude—sentiments which time will rot efface
He pledges himfelf to the citizens of the
United States, to spare neither pai lu no r ex
pe.ife to render the prcfent editiow ofGuihrie's
Geography improved, deferviug of their pa
trona£e - waftf
Just Imported,
In theJhip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
I'ctrrjburgb in Kujfia, and now landing at
Ru,fell's wharf
. HEMJ-,
iiAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS, ,
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
for f»le a! the ilurejaf the fubferiber in
Wfalaul ftieet, N<>. 22.
John Donnaldfon.
d 1 w wSc tf
April 4.
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, "JAPANN'D
PLATES, fcSV.
Done in the moll elegant manner, and after
the firlt matters ; lijcewife,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finilhed at the lhorteft notice, by
GEORGE RUfTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Cheliiut and Walnut,
Fourth aad Fifth Greets.
March 4. dtf
Pennsylvania Hofpitai,
4rls Munth, sth 1794-
The Contributors are desired
to attend the Election, to be held at the
Hojpital on the sti» day o.f the sth Month
nexr,at 3 o'clock in the afternoon ; to choose
twelve Managers and a Treasurer, for
the eyifuing year: *
By order of a board of Managers.
Samuel Coates, clerk.
Just Published,
AND TO BE SOLD BY
THOMAS DOBSON,
AitiieSto#* jiouft, Ho. 41, Mcond.
' Street,
Historical Collections ;
CONSISTING OF
STATE PAPERS,
And other -mtheinic Documents, intended as
materials for an History of the United States
of America,
By EBKNEZER HAZARD, A. M.
In two large quarto velumcs, pike t«i dQI.
Jars in boarch.
Subscribers will be furnilhed with the 2d.
volume 011 paying three dollars and a quarter
—having paid fivs dollars and a quarter op
Kceivmg the firlt.
This iecond volume comprehends, amwyg
othsr interesting part culats, a complete Co
py of the Records of the United Colonies of
If. tiijlaiid,' in which the Cohduifl ul' EHe coin -
millioners relpe&ing general concerns of
the colonies—the neighbouring Indians—and
the Dutch at Manhattan* (noiv New York) is
particularly detailed.
\* Materials are cnl.lefted fufficient to
l»rm a THIRD VOLUME, The ;.me ot
pubiifhing will depend on tile encouragement
Co be derived tVoui will be
received by Thomas Dobfyn, Philadelphia ;
Jere. Libbcy, Portfinontb, New Hatnplhiu;
Thomas &Andiews, & Dav. WeO,Bujtoi:j 1
aia Thomas, Worceltei ; Isaac New-
Haven; Timothy Green, New London $ Jace>b
Richaidfon, Newport; John Carter, Provi
dence; Hugh Gaine, Thomas Allen,- and
Samuel Campbell, New York; fred rick
Craig, Wilmingion, Delaware; James Rice,
Mr. Lindtey, Norfolk ; David
Henderfon, Fredericksburg; John
Petersburg ; Augustine Davi<, Richmond ; F
X. Martin, Nnwberp, X. C. John Bradley,
wilmingion ; and Wiliimn Price Yoiwg.Char
lefton. "
"•ftb,
' ! *«
*>pri) 4 ; tgw&fgw
A Servant,
TO wait on a fingl? Gentleman. Enquire
at No. i6j, Chefnut street.
April 5. dtf
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Secqn-b-Street :
THE Hiiiory ot Itfi w-Hampihire, from the
Dilcuvrry of the River Pileataqua by 7t.
tcmiah Belknap, D. D. 3 Vols, Price iu BuarUs.
412 Dollars.
the For teller, an American Fable, bein» a
Sequel to the Hilloiy of John Bull the Ciothur.
Prce, 7j Cents.
A Ducourfe, intended to commemorate the
Discovery ot America by Chnltopher Colum
bus; delivered at the rrquell ot the Hiltoi »t.l
Society in Massachusetts, Q&ober 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Thud qtr*tui>|
since that memorable event. To which are
added, Foui Dilferutiont,, couriered with the
fuDjcft—By the latne author. Pricc, 50 Ceins
M ° tch _ tnu,&l 3 w
C 3* This Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement—The Subscription
encreafes daily—Adverting Favors arc
Solicited—The/e conjtituU an 'ejfmtial hem
in dimtni/htng the Debit Jide of the Account.
WANTED,
AN APPRENTICE
Office 2 * >I ' nt ' n ® u^lDei3 > Enquire at this
Lately Published.
Just Publilhed,
In one handsome volume, iamo. Price 5s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
A Franklin's Head, No. 41, Second
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Corrected and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
Profeffbr of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
of Nature, and of Ecclesiastical Hiflory ;
and Minister of the English Church at U.
trecht.
Aliquid Temper ad communem utilitatem as.
ferendum, Cicero.
The Firjl American Edition.
THE grand principle of if right
ly understood, is the only basis on which
uaiverfal justice, sacred order, and perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The v:ew of it exhibited in this
essay, at the'fame time that ir reprefles the
insolence of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages of opjareiiion'; confirms, a the
most forcible manner, the lieceflity of subor
dination, and the just demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftinftion,
draws more closely every f'ocial tie, unites in
one harmonious and jullly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. eodiwtu&ftf
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends ant
the puh 1; " Ttiat from th" cour^-
public, i...— com me t »a£emen k
it- has recciv< d, irgm several ielpe&abl« Gentle
nen, he is induced onccmoie, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer liis feivi es to
as) those Gentlemen, who can place confvdenc
in him ; and h allures thole who employ him*
that their confidence (hall not be trulpiaced
but it shall be his lonilant endeavor, to pay the
Ifitkft attention fatten: t*ft interc& t {n#II d*.
'■ 1 - »♦ - • . l-1 *' • •
gociaiions whatever. He has taken the Chamber
in Stale-Street, oyer Mr. David Totutifend. Watch
Makei's Shop.- Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of afl knit's, art* bought and fold ; and
where Cominiflion Bufmefs ol all kinds, will be
tranlifted on reasonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be conltanily exposed for faie, or
commiflion.
V* CaAi paid for Sajem, Provid'
i n fin run li r g t
N. B. r
'■ Net*)~Yi)rk
any c
. has any buji„,
/ Negociation>, he w*.
* on commij/ion.
dofton, Jan. 24, 1794. mw&fif
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nthday of April next,
at the house of John 5 Lomfon, in Perth-
Amb oy,
The Proprietary Houfc
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
Lot comjins eleven aoes, on which is
an orchard ol grafted apple trees, a well ol
xcellcm water, a large Hone c stern, and a verj
ommodious ftablt and coach-houfc, and a great
quantity of the befl building {tones in the walls
)f the houfc, which was formerly built for the
efidence of the Governors of New-Jersey. The
"ltuatior. of this Lot is so well known for its
liealthinefs and beautiful profpeft of the Rariion
river to the weft of the bay, and Sandy-Hook to
the east, that a further description is unneceflary.
The conditions of Tale will be, one third of the
purchase money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, when a good and fufficient Deed will
be given to the puichafer, by Walter Ru
thsrfurd, Eft). President of the Board of
Proprietors of the Eastern Division of New.
Jersey, and the remaining two.thirds fatisfa&o
rily secured in equal annual payments.
By order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Rcgifter.
Perth.Amboy, February &, 1 aawam
George Bringhurft,
COACH-M4KER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Street??, adjoining the Episcopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning hU
grateful thanks to his former employersj
and requeuing their future favors, as well a$
thole of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
fliorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such. as chariots, phaetons with and
without qrune necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, acd cliaiis, and harness
ofovory description,, in the neatest and newest
ftt/hion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by hi.nj, and capital wqikracn, he has
not the leail doubt but he will be able ta give
fatisfa&ion to those wbopjeafe to employ him.
He has for sale, several carriages almost
nniflied, foob&s coathees, an Italian windfot
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaeton far
one or tayx horses, a,i\d a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiffidn.
Philarlelpln;:, [a;:. 6, i 794. nifcthSm
PHILADELPHIA :
Priht£d bv JOHN FENNO, No 3,
South Fourth-Street.
:e, aid
in Philadelphia, or
tranfati at Kojlen,
( be happy to be cm-