EVENING
[No. 92 of Vol. V.]
For Sale or Charter,
IS a stout gpod veff 1, about two years old,
burrhen 232 ton*, has only made three voy
age?, and may be sent to lea at a small ex
pence. She may be Teen at Vine-ftieet wharf,
and the terms made kmnvn by application to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
dtf
March 2t
For Amsterdam,
The new fact-failing, coppcr
bottomed SHIP
« ADRIAN A
K. Fitzpatrick, Master,
BUILT of live ■ uk and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or paflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLANU.
N. B. Passengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794- dtf
For Sale,
The American Brig
R I T O N,
BURTHEN 700 barrels, with her tackle
znd apparel as fiie came from sea, She is a
flauncli vcOel, not two years old, and may be
put to sea immediately. For terms apply
to
GARDINER & OLDEN,
Arch Street wharf,
Who have for {ale,
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
a quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and a few
ca&s Timothy Seed —also
Pig and Bar Iron, and Iron call
ings, in any form executed on the
ihorteft notice.
March 14.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amlierdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A ft. w bales Holland Duck,
Ditto, Qznaburgs,
j Holland Sheeting,
"Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, <viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious fixes.
Sheathing Paper,
of -f
kuedss Iran, Jquare and fiat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Duteb Great Coats,
A quantity of Jwik and Oakum> c, &c.
FOR. SALF. BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
(bouldapplication be made within a few days ;
stberwife Jle will take freight! for Anijler
dam.
March 1, 1794.
The following Certifi
caieof the funded three per Cent Stock of the
D.omeftic Debi of the United States ftandingon
the-books of t!'C Treasury of the said United
States, in the names of Donnald and Burton of
London, . merchants, and signed" by Joseph
Nourfe, Register of said Trealury, to wit
N°. 4476, dated 24'h August *792 for 2959
do'lars and 53 cents was transmitted from Lon
don in the «ship Peter, Paul Hu{fey, maftei,
hound for New York, and has been loft.—-
The Subscriber intending to apply to the J"rca
fury of the United States to have the fame re
newed , defies all persons who are interested in
the said ceitifi rate, to make their obje&ions
(hereto, if any they have.
Francis Macy.
Philad. March 27. d6w
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118
Mai ket-Street,
An Essay on Slavery:
Designed to exhibit in a new point of view,
ifs effe£b on morals, indujlry, and the peace of
Jociety. Some fatts and calculations arc offered
to prove the labor o\freemen to be much more
produflive than that ot {laves \ that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the n-cefiaiy conclusion, that
slavery is impolitic as well as unjust.
Price 2£ Cents.
February 15. dif
ct ffje Ipbtito os>t
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
several of which have appeared in circulation
within a few days pafl; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, hut may
be dyiingui/bed by the following
MARKS.
ALL that have appeared hay? the letter F.
"or their Alphabetical Mark.
Tne Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whit rand it takes the ink more freeJy thin
the genuine paper.
The O. m the word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of th? O,
to touch the top of the M would extend con
fiderahly above the range of the whole word-
In the word tinted the letters are narrow
er and closer together than the reft of the b 11
The 1 and fin the word promise are not
par. Del, the/inclining much more toiwarJ
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,?te strokes
of allrhe Letters are stronger and the devi e
in t! e T\argin particularly is much coa>fer and
appeals darker than in the true bi is. Some
the counterfeits bear daiein?!;^ —Where-
as the Bank was not in operation till Decem
ber, and no five dollar bills were ifTued in
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their a4phabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper.neatly similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollai Notes
above d scribed ; the is better exe
cuted, and they approach nearer to t|ie ap
pe ranee of* the genuine bills.
The fins ruled lines through the word 7Ww
/v, in the body of ihe bill, are «n number th r
fe nin the genuine bUs, and but twelve in
th rrmnt rfeits.
The word Company is much like the Tame
word in the Five-Dollar B lis as defer ibed a
bove, the abeiog ief* jhaii the «, and-tkers.
followvin^.
There is no ftrokc to t!ic t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined
*diot
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, hut are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and '.he}- go
ing below them.
The Siguature J. Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamp-black and
oil, and differs from the other inks used in
printing the bills and the caftiier's lignaturc.
It is these forgeries were committed
in some of the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits that have appeared, have come from
thence, and two persons have-been apprehend
ed in Virginia, on suspicion of being the authors
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Person or Prrfons who (hall
d'feover and prosecute to convi£hon the several
offenders of the following defciiptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or persons, who manufa&ured
the paper on which the Bills are printed.
The person or peifons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
Every person who has acted as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills."
d—tf
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deeeafed,
street, near Sixth-flreet.
THE House being 18 feet 10 inches in
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold fub
je<S to a ground rent of twelve ponnds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their fucceflors
forever. For terms apply to
Saturday, March 29, '794*
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
var.
THOMAS WILLING, President
of the Bauk United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bank of North Ame ;ca.
By order of the Committers nf the Ref
pettive Boards.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794. dtf.
TO BE SOLD,
The House N°. 245,
AND
Lot of Ground
On which itftands, wherein Jam esßi ddle
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
Samuel Coates,
Jonathan Jones,
Anthony Morris,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, dec'd.
>p ;.w
March 1, 1794.
AND
ADVERTISER.
~ George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Epilcapal burying-
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning liis
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
thole oi tfie public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
fliorreft notice, all kinds of pleaftue carriages,
fucft as coaches, chariots, phjetons with anil
without grant necks, coachees, chaifes,kitte
reent, windfbf fulkeys ant) chaits, and harnef"
eOvary description, in the neuteft and newest
fafliion now prevailing in tire United States.
Aikl as be has a quantity of the belt seasoned
wood by him, and capit.il woikmcn, he has.
not f'lie leuft doubt but be will be able to give'
fatistaftioii to those wliopleafe toempjoy him
He has for fate, several carriages almost
finiihcd, such as coacherr, an Italian w'indfor
ciia r, hung on steel springs, a light jihxton i'or
una or two horses, aud a fulkey wiih a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
Pliii.i()c]|iliia, Jan. 6, 179.4- m&thjm
t/" This Gazette Jhallle enlarged, as it
receives encouragement—The Subscription
enireafes daily—Advertijing Favors are
felicited —These conjlitute an ejfential Item
in diminijhing the Debit fide of the Account.
Congress of the United States.
House of Representatives
Wedncfday, January 29,
The SPEECH of Mr. Smith, of South-
Carolina, in reply.to Mr. Madison, on
the fubjeft of the Commercial Regulations.
Great Britain the gentleman had aflur
ed the commitee, would not dare to con
tend with us because we could by onr re
gulations turn 250,000 cf her raanufa&u
rersout of employ.
But would not those regulations and
the counter-regulations which might be
adopted operate injuriously on a much larg
er number of persons in the United States;
would not all the owners and cultivators*
of land fuffer materially by the loss of the
bell market for half of our whole exports ?
The evil to Britain would be partial, to
us general, depreciating the whole landed
property of the country. If there were
expected a clamor in Britain whieh was to
drive her government into a repeal of her
navigation A6t, we ought to anticipate a
clamor from our farmers and landholders'
wh«n they found their produce rotting in
ware houses and were compelled to pay 25
per cent, more for their neceflary supplies.
When the gentleman stated the causes
of failure of the attempt in 1784 by fe
perate states to regulate our foreign com
merce he had imputed them entirely to
the want of a federal government. But
Mr. Smith was of opinion that they_ were
principally afcribable to the divcrlity of
local interests and habits in the states;
did that diversity less exist at this time ?
would it not produce similar effe&s and
would not regulations which might be
pleasing to fame parts of the union prove
fa intolerable to othets that they would
cease to complain till they could effect a
repeal of the grievance.
As far as the fact then with regard to
past experiments could guide, it was a
gainst the proposition ; former regulati
ons produced inconvenience and were a
bandoned. So jealous were the southern
states of this power inlhe hands of Con
grefsto regnlate trade, that the delegates
of fame of them would not accede to the
present constitution until it was llipulated
that the consent of two thirds of the Se
nate (hould be neceflary to the formation
of treaties.
It was not however, true that -250,000
British manufacturers would be thrown
out of employ': Our fupphes jvouM ilill
consist of British manufa&ures, though
circuitou'fly' obtained, ps aijitiittcd ,by the
gentleman fcimfcTf, and at the dearer rs)tes,
ate
[Whole No. I.]
because we cannot fill the chasm otirfclves,
and there is no other country which can.
But we are to Jlarvr her Weft-India
Iflaiids. Those who felt.an abhorrence at
the attempt on the part of the combined
powers to reduce the French by ilai ving
1 hem now viewed with composure the pro
je£t of reducing the British nation to our
own terms by itarving the inhabitants of
the Weft-Indies, who at least were inno
cent of the charges prefered against the
mother country. Mr. Smith was fatisfiec!
the American character was not of a na
ture to tolerate such a project as that cf
Jlarving the inhabitants of the British In
lands : The philanthropy of our fellow
citizens would urge the repeal of any law
producing such dire etfxfts—Nay t[>e
member himfelf would be prompted by his
humanity to be among the foremoft to re
peal it, But the idea was extravagant
we want to fell as much as they to buy,
if they could not obtain'the requisite sup
plies clfewhere, they would go to them cir
cuitoujly from us.
A pleading picture had been drawn of
the benefits which would refidt to our na
vigation by a transfer of our commerce
from Britain to France. The adual
quantity of. our tonnage for a year, ending
30th Sept. 1792, with the different pow
ers, Mr. Smith ltuted as follows ;
Wuh the dnnmions of France, 8?. s*o
thole of C. B> 11 a in, t0.^,8.'.
U. 61 .g.;g
28,4^8
Piling 1, s j Btv;
Peuniark, 12,116
Swcdrri, i)Bj6
From this it appeared that our aflual
tonnage was greater with the British do
minions than with those of any other
country., except France, and it had been
shewn that thie excess was adventitious &
temporary. Our navigation with the Eu
ropean dominions of Great Britain was
60,889 tons, with those of France only
14,777, that is more than four to me :
this difference, he fakl, might be consi
dered of a permanent nature, that which
was derived from colony advantages as
precarious and temporary, because con
trary to the geneial principle of the colo
nial policy ot all the Europern nations h.
contrary to. the very principles of the new
French navigation act.
The gentlcmau had afcribcd our late in
crenle of navigation to temporary causes ;
it would, however, be found to be princi
pally applicable to our trade with the Bri
tilh dominions, and therefore not /o, but
the result of our regulations. In thisref.
pe&, our ftatementu terminate with the
year 1792, a period prior to the effect of
any temporary causes affe&ing Britain.
It had been said if we transfer our ex
ports from Britain to France, we fliall in
ert a fJ: our navigation ten-fold : But would
a vote of the honfe naake that transfer ?
would it create a demand for'our exports
in France which did not exist ?' why had
(he not taken a greater proportion hither
to ? was it not because she had not a de
mand for them ?
Great Britain, said the gentleman,
could not obtain elsewhere the articles with
which we supply her. Mr. Smith exa
amined this part of the argument, under
the different heads. Wood, viz. malts,
spars, timber, boards, ihives-—lt was less
than thirty years, he observed, since Bri
tain derived her supply of those articles
almost wholly from other countiics, name
ly, Russia, Sweden, Norway and Ger
many. The latter, through Holland,
supplied the greatest part of Europe with
o:ik timber, pipe hogshead and barrel
(laves, in which we have less to fear from
competition than in refpfft to other arti
cles ; indeed without some extra advanta
ges, we could not well maintain a compe
tition with the countries on the Baltic, in
the European trade of wood, owing,
principally, to our greater distance, which
makes "the freight much higher from this
country than from the Baltic: hence,
probably, it was that vve fhipptd so little
to France.
iTar and Pitch Britain used formerly
» derive her supply <.»f these articles alio 1
Irom the Baltic, principally from Sweden,
aud the fame might be done hereafter.
Indigo : T.iis can be had from the East-
Indies, from all parts of the Well-Indies,
including the colonies of the Spaniards,
Portuguese and Dutch on this continent :
Great quantities of it, and of good qua
lity, are produced in. St. Domingo and
Guatimala. Tobacco : This article is
raised in the Ukraine and other Touthern
parts of Europe ; in the Fioridas, parts
of South America, and in the Weft-In
< dia lflands. It was true the tobacco of
this country was fitter for certain purpo
ses than that of other countries; these
particular kinds might find their 'way to a
market, otherwise fiifficiently supplied,
or even having a surplus. tUcc was form
erly carried to Great Britaiji in great
quantities from the levant and the EaR-
Indies ; fume is raised in Spain and Italy ;
All the Spanilh and Portuguese Colonies
are fitted for it : A considerable quantity,
is raised in the Brazils. Pot and Pearl
_AJh : Less than thirty years ago Great
Britain was supplied with this article froih
other countries, viz. Russia, Germany,
Sweden, Denmark, and Spain. The
Barbilla of Spain is said to be a substitUte
for it.
The gentleman, as well as other#, had
mentioned the baneful effects of the credit
given by the Britlfh merchants. Credit,
like other good things, was liable to abuse.
Dr. Franklin who well knew the circum
stances of this country, bequeathed a
part of his estate to be loaned out to
yoUiig tradesmen and mechanics; he
thought well of credit, and his teltimony
of its utility ought to remove some of
the prejudices against it. If credit had
produced pernicious effe&s in Virginia,
as the member from that state had repre
sented, it was certain that it had produced
wrioTefome effe&s in other Hates : Why
the fame cause should produce such dif
ferent' effe&s in different parts, he ftiould
not inquire.
As to its supposed influence on the bor
rowers, in creating an undue dependance,
that remark had been well answered alrea
dy : In truth the borrower was, under
certain circumstances, move apt to become
the enemy, thao. the dependant of the
lender.
An appreberrfion had been entertained
by the gentleman, that the existing com
mercial connexion with Britain would pro
mote monarchical principles in this coun
try, and yet the profeffed object of the
resolutions was to compel Great Britain
to enter into a commercial treaty with us,
and thereby strengthen and extend the
commercial ties which already existed :
The resolutions were, moreover, design
ed to induce the emigration to this coun
try of thousands of British manufacturers
who would naturally bring their monar
chical principles along with them. But if
a commercial intercourse with the domi
nions of a monarch were pregnant with
such evils, we ought to abandon our trade
with Spain, Portugal and Rufiia, as well
as Britain, and confine it to the Swiss
Cantons and other Republics. Such ap
prehenftons, however, he could not but
consider as a poor compliment to the dis
positions and character of the American
people. . They were too much attached
to Republican government and to their li
berties to be exposed to the danger of lo
sing eithe- the one or the other by their
intercouffe with any foreign nation what-
ever.
After some further remarks Mr. Smith
concluded with faying, much apology is
due to the committee for having so great
ly ab'jfed their patience ; but when I con
sider that the proposed measures, unlike
common legislative a&s which can be re
pealed at pkafure, when found injurious,
mul be deemed the corner done of a new
commercial Conjlitutwn which being once laid
vee must at all hazards build upon or be
disgraced, 1 am prompted by the ftiongeft
ii)jui:tlioi!S of duty to fuggell every consi
deration which may induce the committee
to ponder seriously before they adopt
them. My opposition is stimulated by a
further consideration : Refpefling a dif
trid which includes an important commer
cial city and a territory producing a 11a
ple valuable and bulky, many of whose
proprietors have not yet emerged from the.
debts incurred by a ravaging war, and
whose welfare depends on a ready vent for
their productions as well as a cheap supply
of the indifpenlible articles of foreign ma
nufacture, I feel a weighty refponlibilfty I
on my mind on this occasion and a peculi
ar solicitude to protect them againfl th,ofe
tmbarraficnents and diftrefies which appear
to my judgment in ft parable from the pro
portions, and which will operate againfl;
my conftitueuts like a two-edged l'word,
by obftru&ing the export of their produce
a nd rendering more UMattainable their ne
cessary fuppties.
In Committee of the whole on Mr.
Gay tea's Refolulians.
(continved.)
Friday, Marc i 27.
Mr. Dayton firll rose in support of his
proportions. When he brought them
forward he did not accompany them with
many observations, because he was then
laboring under iudifpofition. The fame
cause Would render him very concise now.
The injuries and insults we have iufter
ed from Great Britain, he conceived, need
not be dwelt upon—they are well known
and it is universally acknowledged, that
we ought to adopt such measures as
would icreen us from a repetition t>f them
and secure to us reparation. The resolu
tions he had brought forward he intended
as part of that fyflem of defence and pre
servation, other portions of which had
already received the fan&ion of the house.
These resolutions, he conceivcd, would
not be the least efficient part of that fyi
tem. * '
He believed that when the conduct of
Great Britain is reviewed, it would be
found, that it is treating their subjects
with great lenity to speak of sequestra
tion only, we (hould be warranted in coa
fifcating, for they have fubjecied our pro
perty to condemnation, without an ap
pearance of an intention to indemnify.
As to restitution of the property of
which we have been plundered on the high
seas it is impoflible. It is condemned,
fold and scattered, and so hope can be
entertained that they intend to indemnify
our fullering citizens. If it had been
their intention to indemnify, their court,
in explanation of the inltrudtions of the
6th of November, would not have given
orders to condemn vessels detained in fuf
pence in the Weft Indies until the eluci
dation was received.
■Since then restitution is impofiible, and
not a shadow of hope exists that indem
nification will be granted, we have only
to determine whether we shall give up
the property of which we have been plun
dered or claim it with cfifedl; claim it and
enforce the claim,byfhewing that we have
the means of retaliation within our pow
er.—
After the proceedings of the British
towards us, he believed we should have
been warranted in confifcating the proper
ty now proposed to be fequeltcred, with
out negoeiation. This would have been
meting to them as they meted to us.
If sequestration is hostility, (as he had
heard it called) what, he asked, is con
demnation ? Besides they have imprefled
American citizens into their service. We
have reason to believe, he concluded by
remarking from the negoeiation of our
Minister with Lord Grenvilie, from pri
vate information on the table of Congress
and from the conduS of some of their
officers, high in command, that to make
war on us, is part of their system.
Mr. Smith (Maryland) said he always
had wished for peace, as the firft deside
ratum. With this view, agreeable to
the wife recommendation of the President
he agreed to those measures calculated to
put the country in a posture of defence.
This was the best mode of securing peace.
With the fame view he proposed an em
bargo to be laid, which would have drawn
to our ports the remainder of our mari
time pofieflions, and have left them-no
longer within the grafph of a nation,
whose only rule of right is the measure of
her power.
He still wished, as long as a shadow of
hope exists, to secure the bleflings of
peace. With the resolutions now offered,
he was of opinion that we might yet
have peace; but without them we shall
certainly have war. They will arrest 20
millions of dollars in our hand 6, as a fund
to reimburse the 3 or 4 millions which, we
have been ftript of by that piratical nation
Great Britain, according to the induc
tion of that king of sea-robbers, the Le
viathan which aims at swallowing all that
floats on the acean, that mortfter whose
only law is power, and who neither re
fpe&s the rights of nations nor the pro
perty of individuals.
This chara&er the nation he had men
tioned, had long proofs
migljt be cited in support of the afl'ertion
—he would ouly refer to their cttndudt at
St. liullatia,when they robbed their allies
theJDntch, & their generals & admirals
turned vendue-mafters and conduced the
plundering, to colled rewards for their
exploits.
Is it from such a nation, he artted, that
we are to hope for justice ? They know
not what justice is. It isfaid, that they
fliewed their love of justice, when they
fp liberally compeqfated the tories after
their war with us. Tho' they despise
traitors, yet felf-intereft will lead them
to reward the treachery, to encourage a
principle which may again be ufeful to
them; felf-intereft, then and not justice
actuated them on that as oil every other
occasion.
Let us pass the resolutions, then fend
an envoy to Great Britain and we shall
have peace. We shall then be able to
speak to them of their interest. But if
war ihould be the inevitable ifiue, Ame
ricans, lie was lure, would meet it like
men, rather than submit to ihfult and fuf
fer the honor of the country to be prof
tratcd.
If we were able while in infancy as a
nation to afiert our rights, will it be said,
that now we have arrived at a ftafc of
manhood, we shall fear them ?- No !
—Our young men burn for an opportunity
to defend the Liberty, Rights and Pro
perty of their Country ! They, will step
as one, and meet the etent, like men.
He read a quotation from Vatel to (hew
that a nation has a right to pay her citi
zehs for losses inflicted by another nation
contraiy to right, by confiscating the pro
perty belonging to the citizens of that na
tion. The tie of intereit, he concluded
by remarking, is the ltrongeft tie we have
upon Great Britain. Let us pass the re
futation, and that nation will never again
give us cause to pass a similar one. The
people out of dogrs will fay that we have
done tight. The nations of Europe will
rejoice to fee this power which is commit
ting depredations on all nations humbled.
The refutations, he observed, do not re
gard the property in the funds, to touch
this is not one of the means of retaliation
warranted by the law of nations, public
contracts (hould be fat red.
Mr. Boudinot said he had not intended
to take part in the debate at this early
stage of it; but what had fallen from the
member lalt up convinced him that the
house should not go into a consideration of
the fubjeft at this time. It should be cou
ftdered with coolness and all paflions put
out of the question.
No doubt wc have a right to make re
prisals, as the kgiflature has a right to
declare war, but he doubted whether the
United States in their present situation
would find it their intrreft to go into such
measures. The authority read from Va
tel bytKemember last up,he obferved,madc
against that member's opinion. Vatel ex
pressly fays, that reprisals (hould not be
made on property entrusted to public faith.
The debts of British subjects here are in
that predicament. He had heard that
gentleman not long since with plcafure,
expatiate with warmth on the advantages
of credit, especially to this country, should
that sredit be destroyed, he a died, by de
flroying the aonfideuce of foreigners in our
faith ? But even if this retaliation is lawful
will it be the interell of the citizens, or
rather the government to take such a Hep
at the prcfcnt time ? We have no doubt
been cruelly treated ; but have we made
proper application for redrefs,and received
an answer ? We (hould fir ft fend a special
envoy and infill on an immediate anlwer,
this would be the mode of securing peace,
at least it offers the bell chance of securing
it.
The aggreflions on our commerce made
by Great Britain, are no doubt enough to
rouse any American's feelings, but the le
gislature ought not to be swayed by passi
ons, they should discuss the fubjeft calm
ly and deliberately. He hoped the com
mittee would rife, and allow time, at leall
to take the necessary measures of defence;
for could the legislature juftify to their
constituents this Itep of retaliation, should
immediate hoftilitiea, warlike hoftilitics, be
the consequence? To juiiify a mtafurc of
this kind, time should be given for the
defenfive system adopted, tu be carried
into operation.
Mr. Mercer next spoke. He owned
the measures proposed, appeared to him
great and momentous, and had he any
powers of declamation, he (hould think it
improper to give loose to thorn on a tjciefti
ou ot this kmS. We' should weigh well
our interest, examine carefully the situa
tion in which ire fond, end determine
calmly where we fhali place our next step.
The proposition is to a inrft, not confifcate
the debts doe to- Bntifh fuhjefts. From
his recollection of the portions tftabliftied
by the best jurifprudenlial writers, no dout
remained in his mind that we have a cliar
right to secure to ourselves reparation in
that way ; and in oar predicament, con
filiation, even, would be warranted, and
by a point as iirmly eilabliftcd as any
principle which lias the general prafi ice
of nations for a baits. . One of the lateil,
Binkerfhoek, is of opinion that debts arc
property as well as any thing else, and
fees no reason why they should not as well
as other kinds of property be seized to fu
ture indemnity for iniurfes. This is the
opinion of Wotfius, of Vattel, Grotius and
of his commentator. Me couid go on,
he said, Vvith a long lift of autliorit ies, and
refer to actual treaties to shew that it has
been the pfa&ice. of nations. Having ef
tabhfhed the right, he proceeded to con
sider the expediency of ths proportions.
Gentlemen, he hoped, did not v.i(h that
we should lrjake a solemn declaration of
wat before we a<Red. This is 110 lon-rer
the. custom among nations ; it would be a
pompous difpiay of candor which no lon
ger exists. Has any nation in the present
European war prernifed their operations
by a declaration ? No, their Srft step was
to do all the injury in their power to their
enemies. Then we having taken what
steps will best tend to our security, and
give us the best hold of our enemy, let us
not, however, loose fight of a settlement
by negociation ; let us (hew mankind that
peace is our firli wish.
When we are thus prepared let us step
forward to an amicable negociation; let
us call on the executive to fend forward
fonae proper person to the court of Great
Britain, to rifiure them that we have a
high leijfe of the injury done us, that we
have it in our power to relent it, but wifli
to fee the difference fettled by receiving
an indemnification. We (hall then make
it their inter eft as well as duty to allow it.
This he conceived to be the line of con
dutt we should adi rt if we v. ifhed to prc
f.ive the weftecn hemisphere from tiie \
scourges that desolate the old world. By
fomc- such meaftire as that proposed we
should make their motives for peace more
weighty, and we should give afTurances of
our amicable disposition, by (hewing that
all we wifil is a just compensation.
In a business of this kind he was sensi
ble of the danger of precipitation ; the best
mode of, arrcfting the property proposed
should be calmly weighed. He believed
that something like the proposition made
by Mr. Smith(S. C. ) before the house
rcfolved itsfelf into a committees flop to
all tranffers of British property, would be
proper as a preliminary step.
He concluded with some observations
on the respect which nations however weak
will command from their fupciiois in
ftrcngth by shewing that they will not
fuffer imposition ; by joining heart and
hand in defence of their rights. This spir
it, he was fuie, animates Americans, and
now their power is better able to keep pace
with that spirit than when we humbled
that nation. At that time we were in
our infancy, an infancy by no means thriv
ing under the trammels of the mother
country, and when they turned us adrift
and began their hoftilefpoliations they car
ried with them all our means of defence;
but now, thank providence, we have spirit
and power to defend ourielves.—lf the
gentleman from South Carolina, he said,
would modify his proposition and make
the term 30 days, it fhc.uld have his afTent
in preference to that now before the com
mittee. (Gen. Ad.)
Mr. Smith S. C. said that he had fupgeft
ed the proposition allyded to by the gentle
man from Maryland, in order to afford fuf
ficient le'fure for mature deliberation on the
fubjeft of sequestration. It was in the na
ture of an embargo, to arrest all transfers
until the question of sequestration should be
decided. As the propolitirifl seemed to be
more rgreeahle to topic members than the
other, he should lay it on the table when the
committee rose.
The quefticn now before the committee it
whether British debts ought to be sequestered,
as a pledge for indemnification to the fufier
by unlawful captures. .He regretted that
the two fubjefls were cciineifled ; cach ought
to be decided on it's ov.si merit* ; the latter
might give a weight to the former, which,
on confidential,, it xighi be found not ia
trinficjiiy ro d> iorve.
Mr. Smith said, if ever there was a
time when the criiis of affaire required•eafon courted, it was the prefcnt : it re
quired all thevvifdom and gravity of the
egiflative Councils, to combine our nation-
U honor with our national l'afety.
He was not surprized that the unpro
voked aggressions of Great Britain on our
commerce, should excite the most un
bounded resentment, or that in the mo
ment, our passions should invite to a mea
fuie like the one propoftd. He was wil
ling to admit the full force of the argu
ments which fuggetted themlelves in Its
favor: they had at the fir ft glance made
an impreliion on his mind. Comparing
the ciicumftances of this country with
iiiofe of other commercial nations, added
weight to this impreliion : The commerci
al nations of Europe, with whom we were
likely to quarrel, hatj large fleets to prptedl
theircommerce tkt4 commit depredations
on mir's. They could therefore fei2e our
\effels, and we were not in that refpct upon
a footing with them; it seemed therefore
plausible at the-firft blush that, if such nations
fcized our jhips and we could nqt retaliate on
theirs, we should be juftified in laying our
hands on their property of any defcriptiori
which was withn our reach,
1 his reaibning, he said, he was compelled
in cand >r, to admit, had no inconsiderable
weight. At the fame time, howeyer, he was
compelled, to declare, that there was in his
mind a facrednei's attached to the character
of debts which shielded them from a pro
ceeding of this kind, and which fuperceded
every other coitfideratiofl.
The gentleman last up, had relied on the
author: y of ancient foreign jurisprudence.
Mr. S. admitted, that the more ancient wri
ters on the law of nations had faniSlioned
this measure; it. was also true, that by the
anti.nt law of nations, the putting prisoners
to death was warranted. Burlariiaqui, a more
recent Writer, fays the confilcation of debts
is againh llie modern usage and practice of
nations ; '!flowed the progress of civilization,
:he is . proved itate of and relpeft
for credit and public faith, .have abolished
this pradiice in modern times.
He did not believe a single instance
could be cited of a departure from this
principle among nations, which valued
commerce and credit. In all the most
bloody and ferocious wars which had been
carried 011 for near a century among the
different powers of Europe, he did not re
colled any precedent of this kind. Con
i;-a£|s between iheiadividuals of the beilf
gerent nations were always conftdered as
but of the reach of the government; and
even in cafcs where all other property has
been lei zed, debts have always been fkreen
<d from the gripe of confifcation.
During the late war, debts were pro
tested; South-Carolina, though roused by
injuries to the highest resentment, though
the warmest passions were alive, while con
fiscating all other property, left debts un
touched, under the idea that private con
trasts were sacred.
This was not even done in a state of war
—the measure was much more objection
able before war was actually declared—it
might have very different consequences
from those contemplated. It had been
said, that the adoption of the resolution
would be a means- of obliging Great Bri
tain to do us justice, that it would strike
a terror among the fubjeefs of that coun
try, and make them clamorous for a res
titution of our property.
It might, he feared, have different ef
fects ; it might exasperate the people of
that country, and unite them with their
government; on the other hand, a for
bearance in this refpeft and a rejection of
this measure m ight detach the people from
the admir.iftration, it wouldconvince them
that we refpedfed their private rights, that
we considered the aggressions as the a£b
of their administrators, that we cherished
peace and if war takes place, we are driven
to it by the government.
This conduct would give effedl to our de
mands and a refufal on their part would be
so unpopular in Great Britain as to haflen a
change in their ministry and produce another I
more friendly to this conntry. It would
put the government of that nation in the
wrong not only in the eyes of other nati
ons but in the eyes of their own people; and
this was a policy we ought to pursue.
Mr. S. again adverted to his proportion
which, if the committee were determined to
so any thing on this fubjefl, he recommend
ed as a fufikient provision in the present exi
gency ; it would give time to deliberate on
further measures, to take advantage of the
change of events in Europe which He be
lieved would have great influence on the po
licy of Great Britain towards the United
States and bring forward a material change
either in the measures of their adminiflra
tion or ;n the adrniniflration itfclf, in
which cafe we might expetf, without a war,
a full _ reparation for our wrongs. Under
these impressions, if called upon to give his
vote, he should be obliged to vote against j
the proportion : Deeming fcredit of the
highest importance to this country, confir
dering it as co,nne<£led with its comme
cial prosperity—he deprecated the mea
sure as one which would give a fatal
{hock to it. He looked upon the prece
dent as a dangerous one from its tenden
cy to involve us in future wars. The in
tercourse between the United States and
foreign nations will from the course of
things create debts from the citizens of
this country to those of others. When
ever any coniiderable number of these
debtors become embarrassed in their cir
cumstances, they will be stimulated to im
broil us with the creditor nation,' in the
hope« that a confifcation or sequestration
of debts may afford them relief.. And
altho' they might not expect a total dis
charge, yet the profpeft of being less
prcffed for payment by the government
than the creditor, would be a motive with
many.
He had observed that some members who
had advocated she measure spoke with hor
ror of touching the public funds: for his
part, he did not fee much eflential difference ;
if the oue is warrantable as a retaliation for
property taken, he did not immediately fee
why the principle did not apply to the other.
If the barrier be once broken down which
protests debts generally, he did not know to
what length the principle by gradual exten
sions might not be carried. If there is a war
with Britain, it is not improbable Holland
may be implicated: if Britilh debts are con
fifcated bccanfe Great Britain seizes bur ves
sels, Dutch debts ought to be seized, if the
Dutch take our velTels: if private debts
are seized, public debts ought to be seized ;
shall we confifcate what the Dutch lent us
during the war or since the peace ? they have
bought largely in bur funds j the fame prin
ciple will warrant the seizure of that pro
perty. It will be difficult to draw the line,
if the principle be once admitted. Mr. S.
also questioned whether Cnngrefs had a right
by the Constitution, in time of peaee, to
rneddje with private contrails; he saw no
fuoh power veftcd in them by that inftrumeat
and before they exercised it, they ought to
be well Satisfied that they pofiefled it.
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 29.
Yefterday'y New-York papers, received
by this day's mail, do not contain any
news.
The report, that the speech of the King
of Great Britain at the opening of the
feflion of parliament, is In town—is not
true.
From a Correspondent.
The sequestration of debts is a queftion
ahle measure in the minds of many, at leall
until there is a positive refufal on the part
of the British to make restitution.
Such is the operation of the human
mind, that when once we give way to our
pafiions and break over certain bounds, the
commillion of one violent a& frequently
produces othtrs of a higher nature than
those at firft contemplated ; hence the le
gislature ought to weigh with great deli
beration those measures which have an
afpeft to war.
Under our -happy Constitution and Go
vernment no man ever expected to fee an
A£l violating Contrails between man and
man, or one that would tend to injure our
National charadler or future pursuits.
CONGRESS.
House of Reprefentalives.
Thursday, March 27.
Mr. Sedgwick brought in the following
report, which was read and committed.
The Committee, to whom it was referred,
to report the means of rendering the force
of the United States more efficient, after
mature and deliberate consideration, have
unanimously agreed to report to the House,
the following resolutions, as proper to be
adopted:
RESOLVED, That effectual measures
ought to be adopted to compleat the present
military establishment of the United States,
and that prqvifion ought to be made that the
fame may be kept full.
Refol-ved, That an additional corps of ar
tillery, not to exceed 800 men, officers includ
ed, and also including one chief, and four
assistant engineers, ought to be raised for gar
risoning the fortifications which are, or may
be erected for the defence of the sea coasts.
Refol-ved, That the Prelident be authori
zed and empowered to call on the executives
of the several states, to take effectual mea
sures, as soon as may be, to organize and hold
in rcadinefs to march at a moments warning,
eighty thousand effective militia, (officers in
cluded) to be apportioned to the states res
„ w-pK t-4 4—-
peftivdy, in proportion to the whole number
of white inhabitants—that is to fay :
To the State of Georgia 1333
South-Carolina 35 50
North- Garolina 73 31
Kentucky j 5 3»
Virginia 1)1377
Maryland 5418
Delaware 1256
Pennsylvania 10768
New-jersey 4318
New-York 7971
Vermont 2139
Connecticut 5881
Rhode-Island 1697
Maflachufetts 11885
New-Hamplhire 3544
Which detachment of militia shall be of
tively. , ■ ,
Refolvtd, That any independent corps of
cavalry, artillery or infantry may be accept
ed, as part of the said detachment of militia,
,provided they shall voluntarily engage ; and
provided the fame shall be deemed eligible by
the Ereudent. .
Refolded, That the President be delired to
request the executives of the several states to
take tffeclual care that the men detached as
aforefeid, be armed and equipped, according
to law.
Refolvtd, That provision ought to be made
by-law for organizing and raising a military
force, under the authority of the government
of the United States, to coafift of
rank and file, with the proper officers, to
serve for the term of years, or during
a war which may break out between the
United States and any foreign European
power ; and.that the President be authorized
to take the measures neceflary for raising the
fame: Provided that no such mealures be
taken by the executive until war lhall be ac
tually commenced between the United States
and -some foreign European power.
By this Day's Mail.
WILMINGTON, (Del.J March 19.
111 consequence of orders ifiued by the exe
ecutive of the United Slates yesterday, to
Major Bush, of the DiftriA of Delaware,
we have the pleasure of informing the public
that upwards of fifteen vefiels cleared out
from the port of Philadelphia have been flop
ped in the Diftridt of Delaware. And we
have the additional (atisfailion to mention,
that no veflel has been detained but what had
a Britilh or foreign paflport.
BATIMORE, March. 24.
ExlraH of a letter from a gentleman in
~ 11.1' i. / njr i
■J Jo
Philadelphia, dated March 20,
" I fear we shall be engaged in war.
I judge from the cou.fe of events part
but particularly from the secrecy with
which the last infamous n»eal\ire of the
Jiriti(h administration was conducted.
Lord Grenville in the last conversation, of
which we have heard, with Mr. Pinck
ney, very politely congratulated him on
the recovery of Philadelphia from the
fever.
" That it gave immense pleasure to the
king, his mailer, to learn how proipcr
oufly the United States went on ; and at
the great progress of the arts and sciences,
he was delighted, &c. Would you, at a
moral politician, believe, that this polished
secretary and lord had, fourteen days be
fore this conversion, been one of th«
council who had secretly iflued the last
order, under which so great a depredation
was meditated on our unfufyefting mer
chants ?"
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Ship Fame, Sims, New-Yolk. 5
Enterprize, Jones, Havanna. 13
American, Price, New-York. 5
Industry, Perry-,- Returned.
Brig Fox, Miller, Malaga, 42
Industry, Coppinger, New-York. 5
Chance, Bciks, Havanna. 13
George, Norris, Turks Island. 12
Schooner Success, Curry, Cape-Nichola-
Mole. 9
Fakfby Packet, Anderfon, do. 20
Rebecca, Shewell, Charleston. 10
Mary, Sewall, R. liland. 7
Nancy, M'Kenzie,
Good Intent, Miller, Returned
Sloep New-York Packet, Bailey, New-
York. 4
Industry, Wheaton, St.. Croix. 14
Brig Fox, Miller, in 42 days from Ma
laga, failed in company with a Biitiih fleet
of 5 fail of merchantmen, bound to Lon
don, under convoy of the Iris frigate of
3Z guns.
The (hip Sally, Wetks, in 9 days from
Cape Nichola Mole, and several other veflels
are arrived the Delaware.
The Spanish ship Vidioria, mentioned yes
terday. to have been taken by thefloopof
war Cerf, has by gcod fortune outsailed her.
The brig Baron de Carondelet, is returning
to port as herpri2e.
Captain Miller saw two Algerine Crui
sers, one of 32 and the other of 20
guns, close under the Beach of Gibral
tar, but he having Ertglifli colours fly
ing, and being under the protection of
the Britifli frigate, they tpok no notice
of him. He left at Malaga, Ship ,
Capt. Burgoine of Baltimore.
' Arrived-at Port Mifflin, the Schooner
Peggy > Capt. Skelly, in ij days from St.
Euffetia; Captain Skdley has procured a lilt
<rf all the. American vessels, captured and
carried into the following Britiih Weft-India
Islands.
80000
Montferat,
Barbadoes, 1* ,
Bafleterre St. Kltts,
St. Johns Antigua,
Dominica,
NOT CAPTURED.
St. Johns Antigua,
Bai batioes,.
St. Euftatia,
The Admirers of Sacred Music
are refpefbu l ly;infpnned, that One or more
Performancei f; op the iiij.ft appr«.v#d
Parts of Handel's Works,
fparticularly »rom the Meffiaf,) w.lj be given
m the week preceding Easter Sunday, (com
monly caled Paflion week)
A? every ability in the Instrumental and
Voul Line will be ca 1 d forth ou this oicaii-
On, th re u no doubf, but that a Liberal Pul>-
licjvill cake the piefent,undertaking under
their protection.
N. B- Part of the Profits will be appropri
ated to t>ie-lift of a public charity.
A particular defcriprion of i-he Place, Se
leflioi',&c, will be given as.f*>n as the ne ef.
fary arrangements can be fettled. •
March 29.
NEW THEATRE.
March 29,
Will be performed,
A COMIC OPERA called
Love in a Village.
Sir YVm, Meadows, Mr. w'arrell
Young Meadows, Mr. Marshall
Justice Woodcock, Mr. Bates
Hawthorn, Mr. Dar)ey
Eustace, Mr. Cleveland
Hodge, Mr. Francis
Rofetta, Mrs. Marshall
Luc,inda, Mrs.Warrell
Deborah Woodcock, Mrs. Rowfon
Madge, Miss. Willems
In a<ft fnft, a STATUTE SCENE and
DANCE, by the characters, servants at the
Statute, by Mr. Blifiet, Mi s. Rowfon, Mn.
Bates, Mils Rowfon, and Mrs. De Marque,
&c.
After the Opera,
A Scitch Pajloral Dance,
called
The Caledonian Frolic.
In which wilj be introduced a Highland
R»el, by Mr. Francis, Miss Willems,and
Mrs. De Marque.
To which will be added, .
A FARCE, in two a<xs,
called,
The V illage Lawyer
Mr. Harwood
V Mr. Frar cis
Mr. Bates
Mr. Warreil
Mr. Darlcy, jun.
Mrs. Rowi'un
Mrs. Bates
Scout,
Snarl,
Sheepface,
Justice Mittimus,
Charles,
Mrs. Scout,
Kate,
Places in the Boxes to be taken at the Box-
Office of the Theatre, at a;,y hour fromnine,
in the fnorning till three o'clock in the aitei -
.noon, en the day of performance. Tickcts
to be had at the office near the Theatre, at
the corner of Sixth-llre«,and at Carr & Go's
Muficalßepofitary, No. 11i, Market-street
Boxes, one dollar—Pitt, three quarters
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.
* As inconveniences to the public have
arisen from the Box book Icing open on lhe
days of performance only, in future attend
ance will be given at the office m the Theatre
every day from ten 'till one, and on the days
of performance from ten till three o'clock :n
the afternoon. Applications for Boxes, iris
refpeft fully requested, may be addrelicd, to
Mr. Franklin, at the Box Office.
N. Bedford
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to
fend their servants to keep places, at Juif aa
hour past 4 o'clock, and to order them 'to
withdraw, as loon as the company are featc.i,
as they cannot on any account be permitted
to remain in the boxes, nor arty places 'kent
after the firft a<£l.
No places can be let in the fide boxes for a
less number than eight, nor any places re
tained after the firft act.
The Doors will be opened at r o'clo
the performances begin at t o"c!oc'
cii'ely.
CAPTURED.
THIS EVENING,
, 11IMPORTED
In tbi Brig George and Harriot, from
Havre de Grace,
AND FOR. SALE BY
Louis Ofmont,
A PERFECT
Aflortment of Hanging Paper,
high Coloured and
White silk Stockings, high dressed and put
Up E'^gKfli
The hand loin eft artificial Flowers and Fea
thers.
Some Looking Glass Plates to be fold by the
cafe.
A'few hampers of Champaigtle wide T»*
years old.
ALSO,
An elegant parcel of
Bearikin Mutts,
And very beautiful Silk* wfrich on
account of the season will be fold Idw, and at
a long credit.
LIKEIVfSE
4 2 pipes Madeira wine,
a'iid a few caiks of Claret.
< A Quantity <of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Pays,
H zuill txs-ve for sale,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Laces,
hats, fans and cajni'ficks claret in
cafe** a quantity, of* wiudow glafe well fort
qd of all (izc , and a few pair of remarkable
Look jog Glares framed, all amved at Nor
folk, now coming round.
Majvcb 2?... 4'f
Writing
ON StGN-BO A RDS, JAPANN'J)
. PLATES, fcfr.
Done in the molt elegant maimer, aad after
thefirft mailers ; likewise,
Fire Buckets
Painted and linifhed at the shortest notice,by
GZORGg RUTTER,
In Norsis!s Cotwt, back of the New Library,
between Chefuut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth •streets.
March 4.
War' Department.
'January 30lb 1794»
INFORMATION I« hei en\ given to jil the
military invalids of the United Siates,that the
(mm to which they are eTfiitedfor fix months
of their annual petition, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and whicji will bccome due
on the sth cay of March 1794, will be paid on
•he said by the Commilfioueis of the Loans
within the dates refpe&ively, under the ufualre
gulations.
' Appiications of executors and adminiflrators
fewft be accompanied with legal evidence ol
thoir refptAive offices, andalfo ®f the time the
iuvaWdt died, whose penGon they may claim.
By caitomana f>f* ihc-Pccfidcot
of the Uo'ted S'ate*,
(Ps The printers in the telpctlive ftatei are
reqiiefted to puhlifit the above in their newfpa
pert for the space ot two months.
January 30,
Henry .Rape _ State of Maryland.
q. Court of Chancery^
> March jth. 1794.
and \
Balil Gaithtr
The Complainant states
in his bill that the defendants Benjamin Gai
ther and Bad Gaither were seized in fee as
tenants in common of a tract of land in Fre
derick County, called Hammond's Strife j—
that being so seised, Balil executed 2 power
of attorney to Benjamin authorizing him to
fejl his, the said Basil's interell in the said
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin fold
the said land to a certain William Gaither for
the coiltideration of fix hundred pounds which
hath been since paid, that the said William
hath assigned to the Complainant Henry Rape
the bond executed by the said Benjamin for
the conveyance of the said land : The Com
plainant now further states (ard so appears
to the Chancellor) that the defendants are
non-residents of the Hate of Maryland, and
herefore out of the reach of the process of
this court.
It is therefore adjudged, aad ordered, that
tlie Compiaiiiant procure a copy of this or
der to he in Per ted ip the newjf »per of Ajigtll
and Sul ivan, and in the ynited State* Gazetie
at le ift three wccjts iycceffively, before the
tweotirth day of Ma.y next; to the intent
that the Defeijdpntsanjfl all others, who may
conceive themselves in tepefied jn the premjf
es, may have notice tp appear in.tbi« court,
on or before the ttoird Tucfday in September
next, to {hew cause wherefore a decree Ihould
not pafsfor veftmg in the Complainant« com
plete legal title to the land aforefaid.
r T«ft,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. -Con.
tuth&sjw
March 18
WANTED
AN APPRENTICE
To the Printing Business, Enquire at this
Office.
In hoglkcads and in cafri of ,50 bottles each.
A L So,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
NORRIS.COURT,
Back of the New between Chefnut
George Rutter,
R INSPECT FULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on t.)ie btyfinefs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
*■* - - *-*- — - —
5
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or wv.do\v-fliutters 9 don& in tlie ill ok
elegant manner, and yrith difpat^h,
Offers front the country will be thankfully
received,<anlo Ally attended ts.
iDsoarwlwr gjo, dtf
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale his Store, No. 2J, Dock-
s»amc of the Freneh
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid t» violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commiffio»>? or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to "fee returned to the Agents of French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivifble
( March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
The Mimfter Plenipotentiary of tfteFrench
Republic. JH. FAUCIiET.
The Editors of nev.-fpapers within the
United States, are requested to republiih the
foregoing notice. d
H. KNOX,
Sect etary oj War.
Excellent CLARET, n
In pipes, hoglheads and quarter ca(ks,
FPR S&LE BV
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. iin, Suutb from llrcct
J'6- «. >79t-
and VV-alm .-Streets.
A few Bales of R iflja Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs. tr> Boxes,
A l>ale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity Tia, Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto'.'
Holland it in in Cases,
A 'Quantity of Brimstone,
With a Variety of other Goods.
•Tah.mo. 3taw6w
h &e
Lately PubUihed.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No, 41, South Second-Street:
THE History ot New-Hampftme, feom the
Discovery of the River Pifcataqua—by Je
rcmiflh ftelknap, D. D. 3 VoJ«. Price in Boards,.
4 I 2 Dollars.
The Forreftcr, an American fable, a
Sequel to the History of John Bull theCtoihicr.
Prce* 75 Cents.
A Discourse, intended to commtmoratc -the
Discovery of America by Christopher Colum
bus; dterivered at the rfcqueft of the Historical
Society in Maflfachufetts, O&ober 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Third Century,
ft,nce that evqnt, To w.fcich are
added, Four DiiTertations, connc&ed with the
fubjeft—By the fame author. Price, 50 Ccn;s.
March 17. tutft&*3w
PROPOSALS
FOR FHBLISHiMG BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF sHE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from aAual survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS P>an will be engraved on a pbte t€
incbejJifliiare; a (id it viU coauain an eit
aft description of alt the squares, fcrrets and
alleys in the City and Liberties. The situation
of the several public buildings, fueh as the State-
Hopfe, Sett of Coogrefs, Churches,
Meeting-Houses, Hospital, Library and Semina
ries of Learning—of the feweral Banks, and of
the Federal and State Offices, will be afcfrtained.
The parts which are built on will be diftingilifh
ed from those that are nof. The courses of the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, arid
as much of the Canal, intended to connect the
navigation of tbcfe two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be acciyaiety
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a
view of theftiipping in the harbor, and an ele
vation of Congress-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In Ibort, nothing will be omitted 10 render this
ufeful and desirable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power :
and it shall be compleated with the greatest
'poflible d ifpatch, as soon as the gen?rous encou
ragement of Cubfcribers shall insure to the author
such a sum as will be fuificicnt to defray ex
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the Subscribers names, and information con
cerning the police, population and present (late
of the city.
. The price to fubferiber* will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at the time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Subscriptions will be gratefully received at
the principal Booksellers iu tbis city—and the
original Draft may be Teen at B. Davj«s'
No. 68, Market-street, at any time until it (ha!
be put into the hand* of the Engraver,
Feb. <8.
Just Publi died,
111 one handfojiie volume, xamo.
AND FOR. SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, Nq. 4 1, Seeond
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the.Rightis that result from it, and on the
Duties which it impol'es.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, hy the
Teyleriap Society at Haarlem.
Corrected and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
Prol'eflbr of Moral Philosophy, and the Law
oi Nature, and of Ecclesiastical History ;
and JVlinifter of the Englith Church at I--
trecht.
Ajiquid Temper ad communem utilitatem as
tenendum. ' Cicero.
The F'trji American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality, If right
ly understood, is the only bafts on which
uoiverfal justice, sacred order, and perfect
freedom,, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The view of it-exhibited in this
ellay, at the fame time that- it repreflis the
iiiftlence of office, the tyranny of pride, a»fl
the outrages of oppreffinn ; confirms, in the
moll forcible manner, the necelfity of fnbor
dination, and the just demands oflawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of fbciety, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil iliftinftion,
draws more clof'eJy evary locial ti«, unites in
one harmonious and jultly proportioned fyf
tem, and brings men together on the even
of the inherent r.igbts of human na
ture, of reciprocal obli ation, and of a cam-_
inon relation to the community.
March l&.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-Yor,k.
THE Subicrtber intending to cottfinr himfell
entirciy to the PURCHASE &SAJ-Eof
STOCKS on b< g* leave 10 of
f«.r his fervicesto his Iriepds and other*, Ln the
line ol a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their bu fine is, may depmd
upon havipg it tranla&ed with the uimoft tide-
Jity and dtfpatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, B<*fton, or any
other part of the United States, will b< ftri&ly
attended t«. LEONARD BfcEECKfck.
m&thti
TO BE SOLD,
A Jtirge elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an e ig'ble situation, —also a Country Seat
4iithiii6 Hii+rjof the City, witti 9 acres of
lam), or 42 acr;s ot'Land arid meadow, Hie
Houl'e is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size or convenience.
For terms apply to the priptpr.
January 23.
,T£ OF SOUTH-GAHOLI
In the Hbufe of Reprcfeniatives,
December 21(1,1793.
WHEREAS 'the Commtflionc rs of public
Accounts., h*ve rcfoj.tefi, that they can
not proceed 10 the fnveftigation ol the Treasury
Accounts, retpeftjog Special Indents, without
knowing the otfrfhmdrpg amount thereof in cir
culation :-*Theref ewe.
Rtfolvti* That a U holders e\ fpccial indent*
be diic&e.d, and rr-quireo, on or before the fiiU
day of November ru xt , to deliver the special In
dents in their pdfltffion to one or other of the
Commiftoner* of the Treasury, wlvb are to wive
receipt# tor the fojnc, and toriep it to tbe Com
miflionerj, on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of Noveitib.er next, the nmouirit by
then* rcfpe&iv<ly received, and tdfo to -the Le,-
giflature, at their meeting in -November .next,
and that all special Indents. not rc4AQe*ed into
the Treasury as aoovej on or before the fii ft day
of November next, shall be, and the fame are
beieby barred.
Rtjolvcd» That public notice of tfcis resolution
be giv.en ui the fevdral Octettes in this Stale,
once every three weeks, unul the fiift day of
November next, And chat the Delegates of this
Slate in the Congress of the United States, be re
queued to t-his rciolu-tion to ,bf puWifhed
in one or more papeis in the citie.s ot PJijladcl
phia and Ncw-Yo*k., and that provision will he
made for tha ex pence* attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, -That refoUitio# he. sent to the
•Seiuie so-« their concurrence.
, v ßv order of the H<w£c,
JOHN SANFORD DART, /\ H. R,
fh th{ SENATE,
Hejolvrd; Thart this HOuse do concili with the
fioule of Reprefcntatives in the foregoing refo-
•lutions.
Ordered, That t4re resolutions bt lent to the
House o* Rcpreteotatives.
cv^tMpvrf
JUST PUBLISHED,
M.Garey,No. 11 S^High-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the bejl sense inthi *World>
THIS lUttfc book IS written in a ftikr altogether
novel, and is adapted to all re pa cities, as
well as to all claffrs of people, merchant, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation )ias» lhi&
work acquired, that it has puffed thro three irn
prefiions in the eafteui states, and many houk
hoiders deem it so ufetul as toptwehafe a copy
for every adult in their families.——P*ic f. is.
m&rthif
February 4.
Price 5s
D. J}.
e«»d i v/hu&ftf
th&th—Tt
Dsgembkr 21(1,1793.
t>y order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
AND FOR SALS BY
For Sale by the Suhfcribtrx r
MUSCOVADO Sugar in hfuis. & übil.
Hyfoa and Souchong Tea.?.
Sherry Wines, of fapericr quality, in pipes
and quarter calks.
Spanish Indigo>
Boston Beef, in barrels.
And a fmali invoke of Muslins.
N ALBRO' & JOHN FRAZEER,
No. 164, South Front-street.
March 8. finw4w
just Imported,
In the Ship Edvtard, Capt. Ctandon, from
St. Peteriburg in Ruflia,
And now landing at Soutb-ftreet Wlurf, iiz.
Hemp,
fl/Vk IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
HAVEN'S DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOX. SALT. BY
John Donnaldfott,
No. 22, Walnut-street.
d i wjtawtf
March 4,1794.
I NFO RMATION
Is Requested
By the £dror, of a Mr. William Kilton, a
Brick Layer, who went from New-Kngland,
•and was at Philadelphia ift Auguil, *793
since which time nothing has beep hcaid of
him—pi eat relief will be atfmded to his aged
parents and friend;, by any intelligence con
ceroing.liim—as tf ey are feat!ol that he has
fallen in the late genial calamity.
Marth 22,
jqheme of a Lottery,
To rrnfe 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, deduSing 15 per Cent, from
the 'Prises—this Lottery corjijls of
38,900 Tickets, in which there are
14,539 Pfi'-M* an d 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Diredorsof ;ht Society for eftablifh'ng
Ufetui Manufactures, having relolved to
erect LOTT&HIES for raifmg Oke Hundred
Thousand Dot lars, agreeably to an Ast of
ihe Legislature the Sute of New-Jeifey, have
appointed the following persons to super intend
and diroft the drawing ol the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rtifus King, Herman Lc Roy, James
Watson, Richard Harrifpn, Abijah Hammond,
*nd Cornelius Ray, of tlie city ol New.York—
Thomas Wilting, Joseph Ball, Matthtw M'Con
nel anH Andrew B -vard, of the city of Phila-
Excellency Richard Howell, fcfq.
Elias tioucnnoj, Geneial Jtl as Dayton, Jain s
Parker, John Bayard, D >ftor Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockto*», Jo'hua M. Wallace, Joseph
and Eltlha Boudrnoc, of N> w-Jer
fey, who uijcr the following Scheme of a Lot
tery, and pledge themselVes to the public, that
they will take every aflurjnee and precaution in
their power to have the Monies paid by tlie
Managers, from time to time, as received, intQ
the Banks at New-Yoik and Philadelphia, to
remain for the purpofcot paying Priz », which
(hall be immediately discharged by a check
npon one of tlie Banks.
SCHEME:
t
1
1
2
5
10
20
SpO
.3CO
1000
2000
-3000
8100
20,000 Dollars is 20,000
204000 10,000
Prize of
5.000
2, 000
1 ,GOO
500
100
20
*5
12
10
> 4.-539 Prizc «- , 262,000
*3,461 Blinks. Fir ft drawn number, 2,000
Last drawn number, 2,000
■aB,PPP Tickcts at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
The drawing will commence, under ihe in
fpc&ion of a Committee of ihe Super intendants,
as fooo as the Tickets are fold, ot which timely
notice will be given.
The Supenntrndants have appointed John N.
of Newark, Jacob R. Hardenberg,
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Treat on, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample fecuiity for discharging the
trust reposed in them. )
rr In orderto feeurethe pun&ual payment
of the Prizes, th« Superintend ants of the Lottery
ho»c directed that the Managers ihall each enter
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four fufficieni
fccunties, to perform their inftiu&ions, the
(lance of which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
(hall receive Ihe futti of Three Hundred Dollar*,
■he (Kali immdtately place the fame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ci edit of the Governor of the Society, and such
of the Superintendants as live in the city where
the manias are placed, to remain there until the
Lottery is drawn, for the payment of the Prize*.
11. The Managers to take fuffioient fecority
for any Tickets they may trust, other wife to be
refpmmble for ihein.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ft rafts of which (hall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January a, 1794-
On application to either of the >bo*c gcotlcv
men, information will be given where tickets
mav be had.
February 24.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNQ, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
10*000
10,000
IO,OOQ
i«,ooo
IO^OO®
*5,000
3P.000
30,00©
36,000
81,009
<u&ftF.