c.
evening ad ye r t I s e r.
[No. 122 of Vol. v.]
Tuft Imported,
, In the Ship ApoHo, Capt. Fitr.patrick
from Arofterdam, and now landing
on Walout-ftreet wharf, viz.
Gin if P ! P L ' s \ , , _ ,
A few bales Holland Duck,
* Ditto Omnburgs,
, :Holland Sheetpg,
Jumper Series,
Ghtfs ft'arii viz. Tumblert and Mugn, ua
rious fines. g|
Siiiei'tljinz Paper,
Suedes iron, square and flat bars,
Hair Ktbba.li, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
Aqtmt 'J -of Junk and Oakum, tS?t. £yc.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
"The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
ibouhtnppbcjiion be made it'itnm a few (lavs ,
Btherwife jhe -will late freight for Amjler-
Jam.
March I, 179+- d—rf
! To be Let,
For Mc-rehants Co,r.pting Hottfes or Public
Offices,
Two brick 3 story Houses;
HAiVl>fG 6 i>v ui» each, with file placM
ltefi4« pane's, fruate on rhe south welter ly/rde
of l>»ck ftrrei, between Pear and Walnut
ft recti. £;q u >?r of
BENJAMIN fr. MORRIS.
Affril 17. ;iith&atf
Excellent CLARET,
In hogiheads and in cases oI 50 ootties each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hoj>lbeads a«d quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. tn, Soutn Front ttreeu
T*rt. 2, 1794. rjtf
Lately Published.
v* 'f S-e i. t> BY -
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Streets
T.-iL Niltory ol NfW H inplhirf, from (he
EJ (cover yof rhe R vtr Ps '.jtaqua—tiy Je
nmiai BeJinap, D. D 3 Vols. Price jn Boards,
4 M D >ll rs.
The Fprrcftcr, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Clothier.
< Pice, 75 Cms
A Discourse, iritended to commemorate the
Difcovtry ot America bv ChnttopherColum
bus; delivered at the rcqueft of the Hiftoncal
Society in MafTacbufeits, O&dber 23d, 1792,
being the completion of lhe Third Ceii u»y,
since that memorable event. To which are
added, Four Donations, conrue&ed with the
fukjeffc—By the fame author Pi ce. 50 Cents.
iCl'-irch tmh&rl^w
For Amsterdam,
The new fall-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
gjg ADRIAN A,
K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was-in
tendedfor a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
ad convenient speed. For freight orpafTage,
having cxc'eHent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. y JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed ,in Eng
land if retjttired.
March 6/1794 dtf
For Sale or Charter,
John Moore y Majler.
IS a flout good veflel, about two years old,
burthen 232 ton*, has only made three voy
ages, and may be lent to Tea at a fmail ex
pence. She maybe seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known bv appl-cation to
WHASTON '& LEWIS.
March 2\. dtf
For Norfolk & Fredericks burgb,
SALLY,
John Earl, Mailer.
A itaunch good veflel, will fail in a few
days. For freight or p flage, apply to the
mailer on board at Chefnut street wharf, or
to
JOSEPH ANTHONT & SON.
March 31. dtf
I <
- . t
#£ tljt fiiitfeji J|
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
"♦ Market-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery,
L' - finned to exuibit in a new point ol view
h» eftefcts bh mbra/s, indujtry, and the pftcc of
fociity. Some ta&s and calculations arc utietcd
to prove the iabor of Jrccmcn to be much mote
productive than that ot Jlaves ; that concur its are
ricn, powerful and'happy, in proportion as the
Juoriog people enjoy the frurts of their oVn
»at>or ; and hence the cancluGon, that
flavory is impolitic as well ,s unjust.
PRiCfc 25 Cent*. dtf
February 15.
The following Certifi-
C-itc of the iuiwied ihtic per C ere S:ot k of the 1
Domekic Deot ot the United .States tMndisrg on
tne books ot the Trcalui y oI thi laid United
. States, in the names ot Donnuld and Bur ton of
r London, metchanti, and signed bv J »ltph
; v -, Reg liter of laid Tftaiury, to v. a -
a * dated lor 219,^9
dollar and 53 cents* was ti arflmiu't-d fiotn Loo
dop m lhip Pete 1, Paul Huifey, mailer,
bound for New York, and has been loft.—
TheSubicnber intending to apply to ttae Trea
lury of the Uuited States 10 have the fomc re
newed, rfcGies ail pcifous wilo are interefte'd in
the laid cerilticaie, to make their objctlious
thereto, it any they havp.
Francis Macy.
March 47. d6w
ADVERTISEMENT.
OF' the jnuney robbed from ilie mail near
Baltimore, by Doftot Gant, Iljdolla s w.erc
alter wards sent by Jrt unknown hand, to the
Poftinafter at Baltimore, who transmitted
tie fame to the General Post Office. Tne fut
f.-rers by that rjbbery are delii ed to state thti
amount at their Jolles and
mit the fame, with the original letters ofc tbeir
correfpjndents recovertd) or other
evidence the'reof to the General Folf Office,
before ;he firll jtay of June next, immediate
ly at er which a dividend will be made among
the claimants.
TIMQTHr PICKERING,
Post Mafler General.
Geo. Pod Office, April 4, 1794 iaw6w
Concluding Sales.
THE Sub triber having entered into Co
partnership with Mr. John Bartholomew in
tlte of Sugar Refining, will difp6'c
of the
Remaining Stock on hand,
CONStSTINO OF
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &e. &c.
By Wholesale at Prime Cofi for Cash.
John Dorfey,
No. 22, North Jd itreet.
n ' 1 t n tii &16 w
Treasury Department,
Revenue Office, April 19, 1794.
NO FICE h hereby g ven, that proposals j
will be received at theoifice of the Commif- j
fioner of the Revenue until the sixth of May 5
next inclusively, for the fuppiy of all Ra- \
tions, which may be required during f* e cur- c
rent year, at the" city of Philadelphia, for c
the recruiting service. -5
The rations to be furnifhed are to conflft c
of the following articles, viz
One pound of bread or flour.
One pound of beef, or 3 4of a pound pork
Hill a gill" 6f run, brandy or whisky
Ore quart ot fait,
Two quarts vinegar ( _
Two p Hinds soap Per 10(5 rat,ons (
Ofie pouhd caudles 3
April 2».
m woe saw
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER, j
Old Lisbon Wine of a
sup rior quality in pipes, imported in.the ship s
Wilnington. y
OLD SHERRY WINE of the firft quality j
in quarter casks, imported in the brig Nancy s
capt. G>vin, from Cadiz. S
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of >
RAISINS, imported in ditto. 5
Particular TENERIFFF. WINES,in pipes s
hhds. and quarter calks, imported lit the fhrp i*
Tnomas, capt.' Skinner.
A few quarter cafki of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade, h
Who has also, just arrived and for file
A SMALL CARGO OF ''
Lisbon Salt. I
A quantity of empty BAGS fer falc. ft
April 5. w&sim.
.' » .
AND
Monday, May 1794.
18, The annual election
for
Dire&ors and a Treasurer
? OF THE
■ of Company of Philadelphia
WU-L oe heid at the Library, in Fill
olt ree t, on Monday the fifth of May next, «
ar( . tii ''ee o'clock in the afternoon, when the tre:
the iur cr will attend to receive the annual paj
wu fci.caJs.
there are fevera. /hares on which fine
a-re due, the owners of them, or their rep<€
fentative?, are hereby notified, that they wi
be forfeited, agreeably to the laws of th
» Corvpany, ttnicjs the ft*d arrears are paid o:
I- on the fifth day of May, or within ten day
he after.
on By Order of the J3ireftors.
C(i BENJAMIN R. MORGAN,
(> f Secictary
ph April 7. m&w tsth May.
~ JUST PUBLISHED,
39 BY
. THOMAS DOBS ON,
ji.ookfelUr, at the Stone House in SecondJlreet.
Pbtiddefphw,
, c n " VOLUME XI OF
» ENCYCLOPAEDIA,
OR A
Didionary of Jlrts, Sciences, aud Miscel
laneous Literature.,
ON a plan enti.ely new ; by which the di.f
jr ferent sciences aud arts are digested iuto the
rc form of diilinft tieatifes or fyltems. This
ie volume Contains the articles, meda'fs, medi
'd c ' l,e > metallurgy, mctaphyfics, methndift-,,
j". Mexico, (nicroicope, imdwifry, and a great
variety ot' biographical and mU'cellaneous ar
licles, illuftraled with nineteen copperplates,
ir OS" Thic rabies of logarithms, Sec. » rich
;r were deficient in the tenth volume, are sub
Cj joined to this.
5 . Eleven volumes if this wonk are now pub
,g lilhed, and the XUth is in iome lbrwardnels
On the firft of Septembe , 1792, the price
of lubTiript ion was incriafed T£N dollars on
all tctts not taken before that tune. The tub
>v fenption is Itill open 011 thel'e terms, and it
any copies remain by the si.it of Jul) next,ihe
price will be railed TEN dojlars more, on
any copies which may be fubfci ibed for after
that period.
n *,* As many of the fubferibers have taken
c only two, thtee or four, &c. volumes, they are
earneltly requested to take up and pay for tne
remaining volumes, as it bt ijoijies dilficult to
complete the setts, and the publillier does not
hold him.etf bouud to make up any setts after
J the firit day of July next.
Ap il 22. ' m&t 6w.
TO BE SOLD,
And • 1 le cd üboirthc hrlt o: May,
The noted Ejlate, called
Jobnjin Hail:
Lying m the Molaawk country, ftatc of
Yoik, tormcrly the feat of Sir William J »bn
lon, containing about seven hundred acres of
land, which is of the very brft quality ; toge
ther wiih the it >ck, and farming uteniils. Tne
buildings arc large and convenient, and fit for
3 gentleman's feat. The payments will be made
eaty, on good security. For furtlfcr particulars
enquire ot George Meicaif, Esq. on the preiml-
of Silas Talbot, Elq. at Philadelphia, of
Samui 1 Ward and Brothers, in New York, or
of the lubferiber in Providence.
Jab ex Bow en.
ADVERTISEMENT.
SALES at NEW-TORK, by A. L.
BLEELKER iff SONS,
On Thurfdjy the 15th May next at Twelve
o'clock at the Tontine Coffee Houle,
THE FOLLOWING
.TraSts of Land\
In Watkins and Flint'?, purchase, ill the coun
ty of Tioga, {late of New York.
The containing acres.
Southwell quar. of Townft.p No. 2, ' 9,424
Northwest do. do, 4, 5.647
Northeast do. do. 6, 10,525
Southwell do. do. 7, 9300
Southwest do do. 8, 3.P53
Northwest do. do. 6,150
Southeast do» do. 9, 6,2 Jo
SiJutheaft do, do. 9,000
Northwest do. do. 10, 10,475
70,521
Thefelands»re rapidlyencreafmgin value,
large fettletfierHS are already madi-Mn several
of tne the goodnel's of foil, and
'h? advantages in point of situation being so
well known, render any further defcript ion I
unnecelTary. Ani pof the tracts and condi
tions qf lale may be seen at No. 10, Queen
ft.eet. New Yoik.
April 10. tuth&st!4M
[Whole
From the General Advertiser.
To the Editok of the General Advertiser.
Sig.,
EVE RY kind of condudt which has a
j public effect is a proper fubjed of Ihe press,
hence pulpit abuse, and pulpit impro
i- pieties are not exempt from this tribunal,
r. It is full time that a gown or black coat
should cease to Shield a man fipm the cen
s lure which mifconducl deserves ; for it is
II " ot * profejlon, but his virtues that
e . ' belter him from reproach. Merit
fT is entitled to reverence and esteem whether
s it is enclosed in homespun or brocade, and
ill-natuie, illiberally, bigotry, or hypocri*
iy ought to be exposed though covered bf
a mitre. Humility, meekness, charity,
peace and goodwill to all men ought to en
ter into the composition of every man who
profeffes to preach the gospel, and he who
is devoid of such attributes, is nu better,
li as good as the deist that he reviks.
I have been led to these reflections by
a publication tinder the' name of James
Abercrombie, which appeared in your
paper of this day. If it was the inten-*
Jkht of that gentleman to exculpate him
ie!f from the charge made by some of your
correfpjndents, by an extract from his fer
mon,he has lpillakcn his capacity, and has
underrated the understanding of the pub
lic. He is charged with abuling the
French nation, and how has he acquitted
himfelf of it ? By using almost the fame
language which Pitt used in the House
of Commons, and charging them with ir
religion ! Religion is supposed n.-ceffary
to every man of virtue, and to fay that a
man is devoid of it, is to charge him with
"wee. Mr. A. has called them a nation
of deists, and his abuse would not have
been icfs. had he called thera a nation of
rascals, for deism and rascality must be fy
nonimous.
But let me aflc what had his sermon to
do with France ? Had he taken a political
text, that it was neceflary to lug her into
his sermon neck and shoulders ? Or was
he fearfnl that his present profeflion was
to be supported by bigotry and fuperjlitian
and that as the French had crumbled theirt
into dull, their a tars were insecure here ?
Or was he disposed to plead th » cause of
the combined despots, and make his essay
to alienate the American heart from
France?
A prcacher must be much at a loss sos
a fubjeft, or he must have an uncommon
portion of gall in his composition, who
could arraign the religion of France at the
bar of America! 1 hat nation has cer
tainly the right to judge for itfelf in th«
important concern of its own
happiness; and the conforming clergy
theiehave as much right, and would haveaa
much justice on their fide, to traduce thi
preachers here as they have to traduce
them.
The French revolution is no text for a
preacher of the gospel, it would furnifh a
fubiime one for a preacher of politics;
but as the gospel contemplates peace, and
politics war, the difciplfes of the one are
very unfit to be the difeiples of the other;
to mix them, therefore, is to produce ail
heterogeneous compound, not correfpotu
dent with the pacific character of religion,
and mtlft require a mind much better fit-'
ted for scenes of tumuh and blood; than
the mild tranquil aad beneficial {hade of
the gospel.
I did not hear the sermon complained
of, and was disposed to doubt the truth of
the charge against Mr. A. but his irifen*
ded juuihcation hsg made stronger impref.
fiors on my mind, than the paragraphs to
which he replies could pofiifcly have done •
for he has left no doubt with me that he
« unfriendly to a revolution, which has
t.he happiness of mankind for its object,
and that he is disposed to contribute his
mite to produce abhorrence of it in the
American world. Whether such a dispo
sition u fitted for Mr. A's present profcf
ljon I will leave to the benevolent heart to
determine.
Saturday. NO PHARIS-EE,
/
3
1
t
o. 51 B.]✓ *
C, , ■— i
Far the Gazztt£ of the UrtITED Statu I
Mr: Fevno,
There are few persons of .good sense
who hope to fee liberty prevail in France,
who have not been (hocked and discoura
ged by the rncafures they have adopted to
abolish religion. It is not merely the Ca
tholic doJlrilie that is attacked—«t is the
Christian religion. The head and founder
of it has been treated with a degree of ir
reverence, which in this country will
pass for incredible. Bigots in politics
may if they please, attempt to suppress
the natural feelings of wonder, of disgust,
of alarm for the coitfequences of this un
heard of profligacy of manners and princi
ples," which considerate persons will deem
more dangerous to the liberty and happi
ness of France, than the combined armies.
A clergyman whom I do not know, but
v who bears the character of a man of sense
and virtue, exhorts his congregation to
beware of the contagion of these mon
strous examples. What minister would
not betray the cause of religion, of morals,
of heaven and earth, if he fufTered the
threats, or the newspaper abuse of bigots
v and perfccators in politics, to deter him
from the discharge of this obvious and ur
gent duty ?
Yet a writer, who calls himfelf " no
Pharisee," and who might as properly
have fubferibed to his jargon of illiberal
abuse, no Scribe, has arraigned Mr. A.
for preaching against the irreligious pro
ceedings in France. What ha 6heto do
with France, fays the Pharafee—What
has he to do. with vice and irreligion, is
the real question—He has to do with them
as a preacher of religion, to expose them
to his hearers A—he has a right, and is bound
to enforce his exhortations by the exam
ples of the Jews, or Romans, or French.
" No Pharisee" mistakes the time and
place. Our churches are not yet to be
(hut up, nor the Bibles burnt. Our cler
gy are to be respeCted and beloved. The
attempt of " no Pharisee," to libel a mi
nister, and to suppress the freedom of the
pulpit, is a proof of the progress that li
centiousness and irreligion are making. I
venture to predict, that when it lhall be
come the general practice of America to
vilify and peifecute our clergy, there will
hot be left, Liberty, Law nor Religion.
NQ CLERGYMAN.
CONGRESS.
House of Reprefcntativcs.
Friday, May 2.
The fullfwing olfervations were made by
Mr. Smith of Maryland, on the propos
ed tax, on fnujf and manufactured tobac
-10 :—The house in committe of the -whole.
Mr., Smith considered the observations
of the member who had just fat down, as
amusing, and ingenious, but not fatisfac
tory. To him, it seemed a very odd
Scheme to crush American manufactures
in the bud. Men of capital and enter
prize advanced large sums of money in e
reCting fnuff mills. After long exertions,
they began to reap the reward of their
expetices and their labor. At that em'titi
cal moment, the government souses down
upon them with an excise. In his opini
on,. the resolution before the committee
comprehended very great injustice to the
manufad&ujers of tobacco. He understood
that a fnuff mill required a capital of five
thousand pounds to begin with. We are
going to impose eight cents per pound on
fnuff, which was more than double the
price of the raw material. Here Mr.
Smith inferred, that it would be necessa
ry for the fnuff maker to posses an additi
on of double his present capital; so that
instead of five thousand pounds, he muff
possess fifteen thousand, before he can
lupport his present business. After pay
ing so vast a duty, house rent, the wages
of journeymen, and a multiplicity of other
ca(h disbursements, he is to give credit to
his customers for fix, nine, or twelve
months. There was another hardfliip
he mutt keep accounts of his sale. (The
words of the report rtferved to by Mr.
Smith, are as follows : "he (hall enteijo
to bond, with fufficient security to render
a faithful account every three months, of
the quantity of tobacco or fnuff fold or
sent out, within that period. Previous
to taking any tobacco, for the putpofe of
being manufactured, he (hall notify the
fame Jo the office of inspeCtion, and (hall
keep a book, in which (hall be entered
daily, the quantity of Jobacco or fnuff
fold or sent out ill each day.") This re
gulation may often prove a very great ]
hard(hip< It will require an extra clerk, 1
at ao eSp^nt-eof thrle, four, orfh'ehun
d(£d ffollurs per annum. For the manu- t
facturera of fnuff, this might be practica
ble : but, at lead in hl> part of the coun
try. (Maryland) : tobacco-spinners are 1
poor, work theinlelves, «»nd employ ttoys
to fell, many of whom, cannot so much'
as read. How are they to keep accounts,
or how are they to escape perjury, when
you bid them do what they cannot pofii
bly do ? Bclides, tobacco is frequently
fold not by weight, but by the yard. It
had been (aid, that this tax was hot more
exceptionable than the excise upon
This comparison did not hold.
By the tax on distilleries, the agricul
ture of the United States was greatly
promoted. Land that would out bCar
wheat, was, in confeqilence of that ex
cise, and the encouiagement, at the fame
time given to this manufacture, covered
with crops of rye. Hence there vVas no
jult resemblance in the two cases. But if
we are to excise every thing, Mr. Smith
said that the committee might excise, as
properly as tobacco, those ltrings of oni
ons, that were sent from ConneCticut all
over the Union. They were the staple
of that state, as tobacco was of Virginia,
and were equally fit to produce a revenue.
He expeCted that we (hould next hear of
an excise upon nails. Protecting duties 1
had been laid for the encouiagement of
that manufacture in America. Progress
had consequently been made in the bufi- 1
ness ; and now there was nothing want- 1
ing, but a smart excise duty, to knock it 1
on the head, under the pretence of railing 1
a revenue. Printed cottons, linen, paper, 1
were also articles that we (hould no doubt
saddle with a (tamp duty, as had been the 1
cafe in Britain, and thus crush that infant 1
manufactory. In the cafe of the present
tax, it would be said that the manufactu
rer must lay it on his cullomers. Yes.
But will his cultomers advance him a ca
pital double to what he had before ? Be
sides the tax, he must havevilits of excifs
men, which are in themselves, extremely
troublesome.
In fine, he considered this as a dange
rous precedent. It commenced a fyltem
of taxations on internal manufactures,
which would intimidate men from adven
turing their capitals in manufactories, sub
jeCt to be saddled with excises, the mo
ment they begun to be profitable—or
whenever they were enabled (as in the
cafe of fnuff) to exclude the foreign arti
cle. Tobacco and fnuff were, good arti
cles to begin with, for few, except the
manufacturer would complain ; he consi
dered this, as the opening wedge, and
(hould vote againlt the measure.
Foreign Intelligence.
BRUSSELS, February 28.
We are allured, that the plan of the next
campaign will totally differ from the lalt. It
It appears certain that the Prufiian army
considerably augmented and joined by the
contingents of the Circles of the empire will
be exclusively charged with the operations
on the Rhine, and that the Austrian troops
now there will join the trmy under Prince
Saxe Cobourg. It is hoped, this latter
inafs will be fufficient to pulh with vigdur
our conquests in French Flanders and Picar
die, and, at length, to give the lalt blow to
the anarchy, which, at this moment, defq
lates one of the fineft kingdoms in the world,
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Sitting of March 6.
Goupilleau announced that Catalinieres,
the intimate friend of Charettc, had been
seized at Nantes.
Proclamation of Tureau, General in Chief
of the Army of the Weji.
Nantes, 28 Pluvoifc.
" Citizens,
" The time of deceiving is past. I pro
mise you the naked truth, and it is as fol
laws:
" 1 he march of the columns ordered to
traverse the Vendee country, has been the
means of destroying 6000 rebels, who
were scattered about, the retaking of a
very important post in the interior of the
country, and the capture of an immense
quantity of baggage. The banditti who
had the audacity to enter Chollett, by
striking terror into the garrison, have tit
the dull:. They have been (lain by a di
vision detached from the army of the
north, commanded by General Cordelier,
whom I sent in pursuit of them.
" Another division, wider General j t
Duqiitfnoy, has put to flight t! ( e main 1
body of Charatte's army, in the thicket,
and killed eight or 900 of them. On 1
the 26th Pluvoife, General Cdrdelier.put i
ij or 1600 banditti to the bayonet, near >
Beaupreau, which has very much weaken- r
ed La Roche Jaquelin's army. r
Three hundred of the rebels have just 1
been {hot in the sorest of Pince; and b
many other advantages have been gained J
by General Haxo. t
" The trifling ill fucee(Te» we have ex- e
perienced, and which have been so much ]
exaggerated, do not deserve notice.— 1
There are still some numerous parties in <
Vendee, who are so much more dangerous, (
as thev alone occupy the right bank of (
the Loire. My predecessor has allowed 1
them too long a time to repose. We t
must yet make very strong efforts to ter- 1
minate this war; but if the soldiers will I
only fight courageously, and the princi- <
pal officers second my orders, if all the i
constituted authorities will join me, and t
if the patriots are not milled, I {wear that c
all ft all be well." t
March 4. i
Barrere proposed, that from the 10th t
instant, and- during the war, every (hoe- {
maker shall be obliged, under a severe pe- £
nalty, to furniih every day two pair of r
(hoes, for defenders of the Republic, who,
during the winter, had saved 50,00 a pair 2
of (hoes by going bare-foot. 1
March 5. }
A numerous deputation from the feftion <
of Marat entered the Hall, yuith drums 1
beating, bringing with them large lumps 1
of falt-petre on platters. Being come to '
the Bar, Monmora said, that it was an 1
offering fronj the fe&ion to the nation, t
After exprefling very ardent wifties for 3
the welfare of the Republic, and the over- '
throw of tyrants, he observed that the 1
fe«£lion of Marat possessed a falt-petre kind 1
of morality, the source of which was inex- t
hau liable, and whose expressions had very 1
frequently served the cause of Liberty and 1
tranquility. This remark was very loudly 1
applauded, and the address was ordered to '
be inserted in the minutes,
' <
LONDON, March 13.
From Paris, under date of the 7th inft. t
we learn, that the Brest fleet was to be ;
ready to put to sea with the firft fair wind
after the sth inft. On Saturday last, syr
the firft time for two or three weeks pail,
the wind came to the eastward—the pro
bability is, that the enemy would avail
themselves of the opportunity, and are
now at sea. The precise number of (hips t
of the line composing the French fleet,
we believe, is not at present clearly afcer- 1
tained. 1
The manifefto of the king of Prulfia has '
given the lie direst to all the insinuations, j
all the declarations, and all the aflertions
of the party writers, who have again "and {
again positively affii med, that the king of.
Piufiia's concuirence in the general cause
was not to be relied on, and that he would
take the firft opportunity of retiring from '
the confederation agairift France, when he 1
could promote his private views of arabi- '
tion and interest.
A Paris paper of the 6th inft. dates, s
that the Brest fleet had hoisted fignels for
failing'on the 23d ult. and that one hun- 1
dred vefTels had arrived fafe in Brest wa- '
ter. The Sans Culotte, the Genereaux f
and Languedoe, three ships of the line,
are fitting out, besides a number of fri
gates, all of which will be ready to put
to sea before April.
The duke of Richmond intends imme
diately to make the Tower impregnable, 1
as the rats have undermined that celebra- 1
ted fortification, and rendered it in rather 1
a tottering situation. His grace deserves
much praise for his (kill in fortifying it last
winter, and having those breaches repair
ed, which were made by such mischievous
VPrmin
■vermin.
COLONEL MACK.
The following Ihort account of this
Austrian officer, who is just arrived in
London, will, we hope, be acceptable to
our readers.
Col. Mack is a native of Wurzburg,
and son of a tradesman of that place
He began his military career as acormnpn
huiTar in an- Austrian regiment, but his
uncommon talents for military drawing,
his unwearied application to this art, and
his extraordinary 11; ill in laying down plans
loon raised him from obscurity, and in
troduced him to the-notice of Maifhal
Laudohn. His dillinguifhed conduct at'
the affair of LifTa ■ still more ingratiated
him with that great commander."
Field Mai ilial Laudohn had made all
his disposition for crofflng the Danube,
and attacking, that place. Mr. Mack,
■who had formed the plan of passing the
river, as well as that attack, went the
night before to the Marshal to receive his
lait prdcrs ; -when this General informed
him, that he had jail received intelli
gence of the Turks having been reinfoi
ced at JLiffa by a corps of 30,000 men,
and that of course he had given up h-=
project of an attack, as, after having
palfed the river, in cafe of meeting witii
any difatter, he should be at a loss how tq
effect his retreat.. Mr. Mack did not
credit the report of the reinforcement,
btit could not prevail on the MarJhal tc
execute his intended attack. Mr. Mack
left the Genera], crofted the Danube in a
boat, accompanied by a single Hulan,
and stole into the place, got certain
information of the supposed teinforcetner.t
not having arrived, took a Tu'rkift
officer prisoner ,in the suburb, re-passed
the Danube, and at 4 o'clock in the mor
irfg informed the Marfaal of his expedi
tion. On this report the Aultrian army
passed the river, and took LifTa, the whole
garrison of which place, confiding of
men, were made prisoners of war.
In the present war, Col. Mack; ftp.!
attached to the Staff, has much contri
buted to the successes obtained at the be
ginning of the campaign, especially the
attack and capture of the camp of ,Far.
mars, for which he made all the neteffa.
ry difgofitipes. 111 this affair he reiceiv
ed a wound, the cure erf which obligee
him to repair to BrufTets. He expt£tec
to be made Quarter-Matter General o]
Prince Cobourg's amy, but this place
having fallen to the (hare of Prince Ho
henlohe, his wound afforded him a pre
text to retire to Vienna. Called these t£
the conferences held with respect ta the
plan of operations for the enitiing cam
paign, he has caused a system to be adopt
ed totally different from that which hai
been purlued in the prececding campaigns
This he has laid at Bruftt's before th(
commanding Generals of the confederal
troops, and he is to communicate the
fame to our government. We learn thai
every where it has met with the fu|kl!
approbation.
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 5.
A letter from a gentleman of refpe&ebili
ty and information in Liverpool, dated Marc I
3d, to his friend in this city, fays—" Thai
in his opinion, Peace is a». event which i.
not very remote. —The writer eSs this iettei
had been in Scotland and Ireland, and in tat
principal towns in England, and co'lecten
from all quarters that the current of the ge
neral sentiment would very shortly set Lrre
fiftably in favor of peace.
Says a Corrcfpondent,
It is recommended to a certain affernblj
to establish some rule, if they have none al
ready, and if they have to enforce it, for the
fuppreflion of impure and coarle allusions ir
public debate. Obscenity is not wit in pri
vate company ; it is liiexcufable in a gieal
afTembly.
If such instances have occurred in the hiir
ry of speaking, the delicacy of lentimeni
which character ifes the members, will lug
geft every reflection to prevent the repetition
Extract of a letter from England, datec
Feb. 17th, 1794, and received by the Wil
liam Penn.
" The business of Congress is very im
portant! I hope they will have wisdom giv
en them from above, equal ta the matter
that may come before ihem . The President
conduct and speech are univerfa Uy admired
you will meet with Fox's panegyic upr
him in the debates in the houle of Commons
he might have been called to order, had i
not been for that saving exception, his pre/en
Mtyefty, or something finiilar—-Genet's folly
though high'.v censurable, has done mud
good : —the dignity of the American govern
ment, and the cool, prudent firmnels of th
President, will give the United States a de
gree of importance in the eyes of Europe.-
The prosecutions that have been carried c
in Scotland agaii'ft the friends of reform, an
the severe fentenees that have been paftsi
upon several persons will only encreafe flr
easinesses inltead of caufmg them to subside
the measures of government will probabl
only add fuel to the fire, and oceafion ii
bursting out with greater violence. 1 hav
no expe&ation of the war's ending whi
minifler3 can find money for carrying it 011,
but should the allies be no more success.!
than they have been hiterto, the difiatisftli
tion and difficulties will in all likelihood b
so great that in two years niprtnyceffity
fece those at prefeat ;t the helm tc qui.and give place to the men wh* are disposed
» tor peace. Amidft'all the con, ufsons polices
and confederacies 6f Kine--. p ri;icrs and ra
tions, it is a comforting coniideration that alt
the wife plans of the King of Kings are ex
ecuting with the utmost exa&nefs, without
meeting w.tli the least interruption,- and
that his ccunfel will stand, and that he will
a ;i his pleasure. The real christian may
ftiy himfclr in the worlt of storms and tem
ped, upon the divine perfections and pro
lriifes."
Extras from the proceedings of a meeting
of Dr'egaies from the eleltiort diftriEls of
Allegany Coun'y, held at Pitt/burgh,
April 19, THOMAS MORTON in the
■ Chair.
At this juncture we have France to as
sist us, who, ftould we now, take a part,
will riot fail to stand by us until Canada is
independent hi Britain, and the instigators
of Indian hostilities are removed ; and
(hould we.lie by, while France is struggling
for her liberties, it cannot be supposed
that he'r republic will embark in a war on
oiir account after fne fnall have' been vic
torious. It was for this reason that though
we approved of the conduct of the Presi
dent, and the judiciary of the United
States, in their endeavors to preserve peace;
and an imparti.il neutrality until the sense
of the n ition had been taken on the neces
sity of retaliation by a filially declaring
war, yet now that the Congrtfi have been
convened, and such jult grounds exist, we
are weary of their tardinels in coming for
ward to measures of reprisal.
Eat we have observed with great pain
thai our councilswant the integiityorfpirit
of republicans. This we attribute to the
pernicious influence of stock-holders or
their subordinates; and our minds feel this
with fomueh indignancy, that we are al
ipuft ready to with for a Hate of revolution
and the guillotine of France for a fliort
space in order to infli£t punifh'ment on the
mifcrearits that enervate and disgrace our
government.'
Extmft from the Speech of Mr. Fox.
" The condudl of ministers towards
neutral powers, Mr. Fox laid, had been
unwarrantable. How could they forbid
Genoa so be neutral in a cause, of which,
a few months before, they had themselves
been neutral—their neutrality in which
tliey had even boasted in that House.—
The order, jffued relative to American
ships, they had the prudence to withdraw,
and he hoped the retraiflion had come in
time to amend the error.—General Wash
ington's admirable speech displayed all
the temper, with all the firmnefs of that
great man, and it was apparent enough,
that untkr his guidance, America would
strenuously preserve her rank among na
tions. The misconduct and insolence of
Genet, the French envoy, had not pro
voked General Washington to any mea
sures, which could tend unneeeiTarily to
produce a rupture with'the French. He
had atTcrted his own dignity by de/nand
- iug the recal of that minnler, which was
granted, and the intercourse of America
with France was preferred."
Encouragement to enterprise, in the Settle
ment of new lands, in an extract of a let
ter from Cooper's Town, (on the Sufque
hannah) dated April 16th, to a gentle
man in this City.
" As you delight in ufeful improve
ments, 1 wish you could look for one
hour at the bustle of Cooper's-Town.—
We are now cre&ing a Church, 60 by
50 with a steeple Ho feet high ; a Li
brary, with a stock of 1200 vols, a market
haufe ; and a bettering-houfe for the coun
ty. We are likewise cutting a road thro'
the East Mountain, at which we all work
half a day in every week. We are besides
bringing the water underground in 470
pipes from the Weft Mountain, to every
house in town, and expert to have it com
pleated Ijy the 20th of June. We have
added to all this,an academy of 64 scholars.
The whole settlement, which in 1785
was ajwildernefs,now contains 18000 inha
bitants."
A Democratic Society has lately been formed
in the County of Chittendon, in the slate
of Vtrmont—and the follnwing are pub
lifbed in the conflitution of the fame, as
fume of the grounds and reasons for its
injlitution—viz.
lit. The open declaration in favor of C.
Britain, irot only our former but present bit
ter enemy, and the undue influence, which it
is laid, fire has acquired as well in our legisla
tive councils, as with some of the firft officers
in our jj.meral Government.
2d. The unmerited abuse with which the
public papers have i'o often teemed against
4
! the Miniftcr of our only ally ; a nation who
is gtonouliy, zealoufly,uniformly, and per
ftveringly beyond example, wading through
I oceans oi blood, for the of ob
taining permiflib'n to establish a government
l for herfelf, upon the fame plain, fin;pie and
I immutable principles of truth, on which the
1 whole system of ours is founded.
3<l. The almolt total inattent?on (except
in the Executive) which has been paid to the
recovery of the ports agreed (o be surrender
ed by the treaty of 1783 on which surrender,
not only the peace and prosperity of the na
tion in general, but eVen the -very exiflence of
f this country may in some measure depend.
4th. The doors of tl;e Federal Senate be
ing alvjciys (hut, in contradiiSlion, as we con
ceive, to the true principles of liberty, as well
as to the repeated wishes of a number of the
states fignified publicly by their refpeiftive
, legislatures.
i sth, The conftru&ion of the Federal
> Judges on the fuab!lity of states ; thereby
efFectually extinguiOiing their sovereignty,
• whtlft the United States are placed under
[ no fueh rcftri&ion.
6th, The alarming circumstance of
eleven members of the; Federal Senate hav
i tag voted in the negative on a motion for
laying before that body, the correfpon
l denee between our AmbafTador at the Re-
I public of France, with the Miniiter of
that nation, for foreign affairs, as well as
his correspondence whith our Executive,
; and which motion was carried by two only.
1 ■
: By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, May 3.
Thursday night Capt. Clark was going to
his Ihip, he was attacked by an attrocious
scoundrel, with a long knife tapered oiflike
the point of a sword ; he seized Capt. Clark,
j and fixed the knife to his brealt, and threat
ened that he would run it into him, unless he
delivered his purse immediately. Captain
Clark while he was threatening, took the
opportunity of giving him a blow on the
' head, which ftunnedand caused him to drop
the knife, which Capt. Clark took up: The
villain efeaped.
On Thursday evening arrived the Xebec
Sins Culottes, Captain Molinary, from a
Ci-uize.—About fix leagues off the Hook (he
took the brig Mary, Capt. Collin, of White
haven, Great Britain. The Sans Culottes
carries 10 long nine pounders and 70 men,
and has taken many rich prizes on this coals.
St. JOHN'S, (Autjgua) April 7.
St. Lucia has surrendered to his Majesty's
arms, as we are informed by very refpedlable
authority. The whole fleet, except the Asia,
With i; oq picked men on ijpard, wen: against
it. On Tuesday a heavy cannonading was
heard there, and on Wednesday it was taken.
The particulars relative to the terms of the
surrender, we.have not been atiie to learn.
BOSTON, April 26.
From Gibralter.
Arrived here, the Ihip Commerce, Capt.
Loring, from Gibraltar, in 64 days. He
came out with an Englifli convoy, in compa
ny with the Raven, Plummer, of Boltoa,
wco put into Cadiz.—*By accounts from the
Levant, there was but one American lhip
within the Streights. A few days previous
to Capt. Loring's failing, art Algerine brig,
of 22 guns, and >280 men, came into Gi
braltar, to water, after Wh'ich (he failed on a
cruise to the westward. By means of a Mooriih
gentleman, who wa3 requested to aik the
officers, the force which would cruize from
Algiers this Summer, we learn, they would
have at sea, 1 frigate 44 guns, 1 do. 36, 1 do.
28, one polacre ihip 24, 2 brigs, 22 each, 1
do. 14, 1 snow 16, 3 Xebecks ; and from
Oran, they would fit out 1 brig 18 guns, 1
schooner, (formerly of Marblehead) 6 guns,
I Tartan, 4 guns, and 2 Xebecks. They are
all well manned, and equipped. They were
then on a cruize of 60 days. The number
of Christian slaves in Algiers, were 362,
about 130 Americans. To alleviate their
fufferings, a benevolent character at Cadiz,
forwarded them 1000 dollars, and a gentle
man of Hamburgh, 5001. sterling. The n
American prizes, fold for 410,000 dollars,
and the estimated ransom for the 130 Ame
ricans, is 240,000.
For the Gazette of the United States,
Mr. Fenno,
It is said by .some, that Mr. Bachc
writes many of the pieces which are pub
lilhed in his paper, as from Correspond
ents—l am convinced the charge Is un
jult ; and as the freedom of the press, de
pends upon Editors feeling unembarrafled,
I wish to contribute my mite towards pla
cing the Editor of the General Adverti
ser upon a footing which I think he de
serves.
You, Mr. Fenno, have doubtless obftr
ved an attack upon your Gazette in Mr.
Bache's paper of this morning, said to
be, " From Correspondents," in the plu
ral number ; and as this is,very unjustly,
fnid to be written by Mr. Bache, I think
I can set that matter right.
It was drawn up and submitted to the
consideration of "a certain Society, and af
ter it was Corrected &' patted there, sent
to another Society of the fame kind, and
pa (Ted there—and privately ordered to be
printed. If fan Aioned by the public, the
iubftance of it. .will come out in the next
Refol/es. Please to inform the gentlemen,
that the competition is too mar.ly, polite
and elegant, to escape notice—and that
they may publish it among their Resolves
with the utmost fafety, it certainly can
not ciijgract them, and probably will gain
them credit-
But, Sir, let them learn, that while
folly goes Only to ceremony, and meddles
not with fuhjlance, men of sense will look
on, with unconcci n, but beware of touch
ing the sacred palladium of our Liberty,
Government. The present French Minif
ter,is too worthy a chara&er.to, befufpeft
ed of,a wish to interfere with our internal
government or the administration of it—
and alt ho' knaves and fools, expressed a
fellow-feeling for his predecessor, when
his unjiithfiaLle conduct was exposed and
reprobated; yet it is sincerely hoped the
prefeut Mimfter, may be spared, by that
fame junto, when the only accusation they
can bring acjainft him, is honeity and pro
priety of conduct.
It must however be acknowledged, that
he 13 in danger from them, for by their
attacks upon the Senate, Cfyief Jufti'ce
and President, it is very manifeft, they
either cannot, or will not suppress their
general antipathy to integrity, wherever
they discover it.
Really Sir, this kind of gentry who
.write the pieces above alluded to in Mr.
Bache's paper, and others of a similar
nature, excite the old question, Cuius
Pecus ?
A REPUBLICAN.
,sth May, 1794.
EPIGRAM.
ON A LATE
NAVAL RETURN.
Lord ! HOW he goes on to encounter
the foe;
Lord ! HOW he returns from his victo
ries part ;
Lord ! HOW many ships has he taken—
do you know I
Lord! HOW he has taken bimfetfhottie
at last !
HOW and ABOUT IT.
English Paper.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Ship Alexander, Woodward, Havanria,
15 days
Brig Ann, Byrne, Ditto, 19
Mary, Cufliing, Ditto, 17
Sloop Samuel, Smith, Virginia
Dolphin, Kentee, Ditto
Sch'r Freedom, Barnetf, Ditto
The French privateer (accounts from
Charletton fay) called the Sans Pareille,
has taken the brig of Kingllon,
Jamaica, frorh the Havanna, bOund so
London, and sent her into Charlelton.
Thursday last arrived at Perth-Amboy,
the American brig Penelope, Bray, and
th« Sloop James, Palmer, from Bour
deaux, which place they left the sth of
March. Capt. Palmer, who arrived in
town on Saturday evening, informs that
the embargo at Bourdeaux was taken off
—and that all American vessels were per
mitted to fail, but in ballast only—no in
demnification was then fettled.
POST OFFICE,
Philad. May 3d, 1994.
Letters for England will be received at
this office until Thursday the Bth May, at
11 o'clock noon.
N. B. The inland postage to New-York
rauft be paid.
Wharton and Greeves,
Have removed their Counting House from
Watfr ftreef, to Morton'? wharf",
Where they have for Sale,
Madeira and sherry Wine,
fit for immediate ufc
Gin in cases,
Souchong Tea,
Blaik Pepper,
Riiffia Matt Si
Corks,
fefiits Bark,
Coffee, - arid
Eighty Hkds.pi ime Tobacco.
May 5. d—6t.
Extras of a letter from a rtfprcta'ole gentle
man, in an Eastern /late.
" Our Demagogues a& in concert with
their emp oye; sai the Southward. The ap
pointment of the Chief Juflice ; Envoy" to
the court of London, to negociate, excites
all their fears. In short, they begin to des
pair of involving our common country in
ruin, and this measure has flung them to
the quick. The condudl of the Eastern
members in Congress, is agreeable to nine
tenths of their constituents.
Tranjlateel from the Leyden Gazette of the
Ith March.
1 he mod recent advices from, Fran
kfort explain the firft reports relative to
what took place on the arrival of the two
French commifiioners—lt was not the
people of this city who took offence at the
Jacobin ornaments which adorned their
chariots—lt was ast ranger, a Ruffian, who
would have torn off their ornaments by
force. As a reparation the Prussian Gen.
Count Kalckreuth catifpd him to be
ed, and he will not be released but at the
intervention of the minister of that nation^
It appears that these commiilioners have
been received with all the honors usually
paid to public chara&ers. They have
commenecd their conferences with M. de
Kalckreuth and it is the general idea,'
that they are not limply charged with the
bulinefs of exchanging prisoners—mean-
time their (lay at Frankfort is prolonged,
and the result of the firft interview, has
been sent by express to their refpedive fu
pcriors.
City of Waftiington.
THt Subscribers to the Articles of Agree,,
merit of the u Columbian Society" are re
quested to mcet at Mr. Richardet's - TaVem'
in the city of Philadelphia, on Monday the
26th day of the present month, at 12 o'clock
in order co choose a boar'd of Managers, &c.
in conformity with the 9th article of theit a
greement.
"James Greenleaf.
N. B. Dinner will b: ordered on the Table
ai 3 o'clock -for such of the Suhfcfibei s ,as
may choose to pass a facial hour after the
bufinef's of the day is finilhed.
Ma y 5- ' dca6M.
Advertisement.
TflE relations of Mr Thoma.Curti?,for
merly of Ellicoti's Upper Mills, ?nd lately of
the City of Washington, deceafcd, are deffr.
Ed to bav«J»ix.affii!ts fettled.
City of Walhington, April 22, 1764.
M- S m&th4w
Advertisement.
The Editor of the American Star propofl
ing toipublifh his paper DAtLY, without any
augmentatioh of the prel'ent price, is obliged
to'fiifpend the publifcation of It uniij Ihe 15th
inft- on account of foriie arrangements.
May 5
NEW THEATRE.
"<L
THIS EVENING,
May 5.
Will be performed,
An OPERA, called
Inkle and Yarico.
With the original Overture and Accompani
ments.
Inkle, Mr. Marshall
Sir Chriftdpher Ciirry, Mr. Whitlock
Medium, Mr. Finch
Campley, Mr. Moreton
Trudge, Mr. Bates
ill. Planter, Mr. Harwood
id. Planter, Mr. Cleveland
3d. Planter, Mr. Warrell
Waiter, Maficr T. Warrell
Mate, Mr. Darley
Sailors, Meflrs. BlifTet, Lee, Bason,
Sic.&c.
Yarico, Mrs. Marshall
Narcifla, Miss Willems
Wowfti, Miss Broodhurft
Patty, Mrs. Shaw
In ait 2d, will be introduced a characfleriftic
pantomime dance, incidental to the piece,
(composed by Mr. Francis) by Meflrs.
Darley, Darley, jun. Bliffett. D'e Moulin,
Warrell, Lee, and Francis.
With new Scenery, drefles and decorations.
The Scenery designed and executed by
Mr. Milbourne.
To which will be added,
A FARCE, in two A<fts, called
'The Village Lawyer. ,
* # * As inconvenience's to the public have
arisen from the Box book being open on the
days of performance only, in future attend
ance will be giv.n at the office in the Theatre
1 every day from ten 'till one, and oh the days
of performance from ten till three o'clock ia
the afternoon. Applications fcr Bo*es, it is
refpeilfully requeued, may be addrelTed, to
Mr. Franklin, at the Box-Office.> %
office of the rrefxSent and Director!
i. *f th; INSURANCE company of Njkth
America. i* iemoved to No. iJ?, South
Fro-it it tit, being the foutli call corner of
Fionta d Waihut ltieets.
yi v 1 rl-f 1 m.
—NO. 2.1—
Second Jfreety bctvjmn Market and Cbtfnut
Jireets, Pb'tLulfipbia.
POYNTELJ.' S
AMERICAN MANUFACTORY OF
PAPER HANGINGS,
WHERE be keeps up a constant ftotk of
ten thdufand pieces for sale, comprising every
of colours, in grounds and figures, of
the most modern and tasty patterns, tor eve
ry part of .a house. The perffftion
in this manufactory, in peculiar neatness "f
workinanfhip, durability of colours} variety
jn designs, and good quality ot the paper, will
be found to exceed any European papers at
the fame moderate prices.
An elegant variety of rich fancy feftoon &:
narrow borders, and of stucco and other co
loured pannel papers.
Plain grounds made to any colour or ftiadc.
"Wholesale orders for any quantity, from
the country or for exportation, executed on
a ihort notice, o,n advantageous tenus, oa
usual credit.
In addition to the above affbrtment, he has
a beatitifbl variety of
French paper hangings
of very superior quality, (Piris raanufjftory)
with a variety offtich Border#.
April 25 tuth&szw
(NO. 60 ) "
' Diflrili of Pennsylvania, to wit t
Be it remembered that
«n the twelfth day of April in the eighteenth
jezr of the Independence of the United Slates
of America, Benjamin Davies of the said dif
trrtfi hath deposited in this office the title of a
map, the right whereof he claims as propri
etor, in the words following, to wit;
4< A Ground Plan of the City and Sub
" urbls of Philadelphia, taken from actual
(i flirvey ; containing an exact description
" ps all the squares, streets and alleys in
u the Gity and Liberties ; of the situation
i( of all the principal pu v >l»c buddings; of
u the rivulets, and as ihuch of the Canal
u< as fie-iwithin the compass of the draft,
u by H. P. Folic : published by the Propri
" etor, Benjamin Davies."
In cohfot mity to the ast of the Congress of
the United States, entitled an ast for the en
cou* ageme.it of learnmj;, by securing the co
pies of mips, charts and books to the authors
and prop iet >rs ofjuch copies, during the
times therein mentioned.
SAMUkL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Dutritftof Pennsylvania.
April 9' W&S2W
A New Novel.
- nil ■"
To the LADIES of Philadelphia.
' This Day is PubE/fred by
MATHEW CAREY,
TiS, Market street,
Pricr, bound, hve-eighihs of a dollar, sewed
in aible paper, hall a dollar,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
IN TWO VOLUM ES.
By Mrs. RO'vVSON, of the New Theatre,
"Pftladelphia, Author of Vifloria, the In
quisitor, the F-.lle de Chambre, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given
the following character.
IT may be a Tale ol" Truth, for it is not
unnatural, and it is a talc of real diitrefs.—
Charlotte, by the artifice of a teachei, recom
mended to a fch >01, from hnmanitr rather
than a cinri&ioT of her integrity; or the re.
gularity of her former conduit, is enticed
from her goveri ek, and accompanies a young
officer toAmeiica—The marriage ceremo
ny, if not forgotten, ijL postponed, aod Char
lotte d es a martyr tb'the inconstancy of her
over, and treachery ol his friend —The litu
tio:js a ; artlei's and ajfe&ing—i hfe defcrip.
atio s natural and pathetic; we ihould feel
for Charlotte if i'uch a person ever existed,
who for one eror scarcely, perhaps, delerved
so feve-e a punifliment. If it is a fiction,
poetic juitice is not, we think, properly dif
trfbuted
Said Carey has jujl published,
A 2 sheet map of Kentucky
compiled iv Elihu Barker, price one dollar
and two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Garina iy, Spa n,ltaly, the United Provinces,
the Netherlands, and the Weft Indies. Price
tw" dollars.
Map of Ne>v Jersey—Hals a dollar.
Maps of Vt rmont, Conrieflitut, Delaware,
Georgia—Price three eighths of a dollar
•*«aeti.
. Aoril 20 ■ -
Just Imported,
111 the Ship Elkvhrd, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Peter Iburg in Ruflia,
* And now landing at South-street Wlurf, viz.
HM EMI',
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
■RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's bristles.
AS'D FOR f ALE BY
J oh) i Ddnnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-flreet.
dlw3tawtf
March 4,1794.
The Ground Plan
OF THE
City and Suburbs
OF
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM 4CTVM SURtTSf.
IT is with pleafiire that the publiflier has to
inform hisfublcribers and the public in cent
ra], that the p ate is now under the hands of
rhe engraver,.and in greater forwardness than
ivas at contemplated. At the fame time
h? begs leave to r-mind them, that subscrip
tion papers arefti open at molt of Che noted
book-stores in the city ; iiid that he hopes
from the whole of tiiem to be enabled to ft> m
such a refpeftable caia ogu? of natnei, as will
do a credit to the worKjj well as afford a
returnable encouragement to the
Thole who are delirous trt farther informa.
tion are ie<juefted to call i
Benjamin-Havies,
No. 68, Ma ic lirett.
m&thtf
April 14.
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollar* | deducting 15 Cent„ from
the Prizes—this Lottery confijls of
38,000 Tickets, ifi which there are
14,539 Pri-z.es and Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Dire&ors of «he Society for eftabliftung
Ufcful MdmlfiftqVcs, having resolved to
ere 61 LOTTERIES for raWiiV* One Hu ndr ed
Thousand Dol laxs, agreeably to an A& of
the Logifl ture ot th« Si.rte ot New-Jersey, have
appointed the following per Tons to fupermtend
and dired* the drawing ot the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rufits K'ipg, Herman Le Roy, James
Wat Tonßichard Harriton, Abijah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city o! New-York—•
Thomas Willing, Joieph Bali, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew Bayard, of tlje cily of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richafid Howell, Esq.
Elias Boudinor, General £)'as Dayton, Jam s |
Parker, John Bayard, DoffofLewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton,.Joihua M. WaHace, Joseph
Bloomfield,"arid"felilna Boutfinol, ot N w-Jer
fey, who offe* the tallowing Scheme cf a Lot
tery, and pledge themselves to the public, that
they will Jakt every 4iftir?njce and precaution in
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from tinae to time, as receivtd, into
the Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for the purpofeof paving Pnz s, which
(hall be immediately discharged by a cbeck
npon one of th< j Banks.
SCHEME:
Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 20,000
10,000 *0,000
5,000 10,000
2,000 10,000
10.000
500 I^,ooo
100 10,000
Jon on
1
1
2
5
10
20
ICO
3®» •»•**-""J*'
Wo®-- -• - -i$
3000
8100
Blauki. First drawn nuabcr, 2,000
uutnoer, 2,u
Last drawn number, 2,00<
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266.001
The drawing wiil commence, under the in
fpe£tu>n of a Committee of ihe Superintendents,
as soon as the Tickets are fold,ot which timety
notice will be given.
The Superintendants have appointed John N
Cornming, of Newaik, Jacob R. Wardenbeig,
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Trentoo, as immediate Managers thereof, who
j have given Simple fecuiity for discharging the
trutt repoied in them.
(£3" In order to secure the punctual payment
pf the Prizes, the Superintendantsof the Lottery
have dire&ed that the Managers (hail each enter
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four fuffiVent
<Tecuriti s, to perform their inihuftions, the sub
stance of which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
(hall receive the sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he (hall lmmdiately place the fame in one of the
Bauks of New-York or Philadelphia* to the
cicdu ot the Governor of the Society., and such
ot the Superintendents as live in the city where
the monies Ate placed, to remain there nntil the
Lottery is drawn, for the paymntof the Prizes.
11. The Managers to take lufhcient security
for any Tickets ( they may trust, otherwise to btf
refponnble for them.
111. To keep regular books of Ticketrfol&<
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ft'a&s of which (hall be sent, monthly, >o lh«
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January 1, 1794. t
On application to either of the above gentle
men, information will be given where tickets
may be had.
February 24.
Just Imported,
In thejhip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peterjburgh in RuJ/ia, and now landing at
KvJftlTi 'wharf,
HEMP,
> :r f ->
RUSSIA SHEETINGS, ;
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And for sale !■• ihe (lores of thefubfwiber i»
Walnut fttect, '
April 4.
i,M
■fit *■:.{
¥%&
>■ - • - -*5,060
*9,<*>o
'• J • ■
36,000
81,000
—*2
! off,
bar iron,
John Donnaldfon.
diw w&.tl;
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bilts of
the Bank 6f the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bilts of tlx Bank of North America,
fe-veral erf which have appeared in circulation
within a fe<tU days phft ; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the getuiine Bills, tut may
be diflinguifhed by the fallowing
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills cf tfu Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for t'hffir Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more fieely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is finaller
than the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the »>,
to touch the top of the M. would extend con
siderably above the-range ps the \V-huie word.
In the word United the lettsrs are narrow,
erand closer than the reft of the bill
The i and.y m the word promise are not
parallel, the yinclining much more iorwarJ
than tjie i.
The engraving is badly executed,the strokes
of all the Letters are stronger and the devie
in themargii- particularly is risuch coarser and
appeals darker rfian itr the true bills. Some
el the counterfeits bear date in I 791 —Where-
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were iflued in
ihat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have'aooeared have the letter
ALL that have" appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
Tftey are printed on a paper nearly fjmtlar
to that of the couitfer&it Five Dollar Notes
above dcfcnbed ; the en£r"sfvir\g is bette' exe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine biJls.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the body of the bill, are in number th r»
tqen in the genuine b«lis, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
Tj'fie word Company is much like the ff/ne
Word in the Five 1 Dollar B lis &s defer ibed a
bove, the o being less than the and others
following.
There is no'ftroke to the fin the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined
The let Cert eat in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do nor come down to ,
the line, hot are fa cqt as to give an irregular J
appearance to the word, the Tw and 'bey go- .
ing below them.
The fjgnaiure 1 Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamb-black and |
oil, and differs from other inks used in
printing the bills a»d the cafhiei's lignatuie.
It is fuopofed thefc forgeries were committed
in some of lh • Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come from
thence, and two perfofts have been apprehend
ed in on fuipicion of being the author
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to auy Peifon or Perfops who lhall
difco-vei and profecuie to convict.on the feveial
offenders of the following descriptions or any
of them, viz.
The perfori or pcrfrns, Who manufactured
thepaper on which the Bills arc printed.
The pier fan ar pet lons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or prinrers, «f the bills.
Every person who has a£led as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said b'lis.
Pniladielphia, March 28, 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the Uni ted States have appeared
in circulation..
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is the let
ter B.
They may be distinguished from the genu
ine by the following MARKS :
The paper of the counterfeits is of a more
tendjr texture and gloffey furface than the
genuine, and there is no water mark in them.
The letter C. in the word Cashier, in the
true WHS is strongly riiarked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
stroke, evidently in an ufifinilhed state. The
letters in the wo-d demand, is badly formed
and the whole word ill done, and there is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bilh.
The nparginal device, is much da>ker in
the fa He, than in the genuine bills owing to
the shade strokes being coarfc, much nearer
together, and consequently much more nu
merous.TKis cfifference firlkes the eye at firft
view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLAJRS,. will he paid for apprehending, &
profeciitjng so tonviftion tie several above
described Offenders in iefpe<?l to this, as to
the la'ft deferibed hills.
THOMAS-WILLING, P'iefid<tat
of the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON. Pr*lidcnt of the
Bank of North Artietica.
By order of the Commitues of the Ref
pe&ive Boards.
iMfftl.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN ait eligible fitujrtion,—alio a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vieinity
of the city, in lize, or convenience.
For partieiitaPs apply to the printer.
ru&thtf
*
Juii Publiflied,
AND TO BE SOLD BV
THOMAS DOB SON,
Ac die Scone house, No. 41, South Record
Street,
Historical Collections *
COtfStSVING as
STATE PAPERS,'
And other authentic Documents, intended at
materials for an History of" the United Sratis
of America.
By EBtNEZER HAZARD, a. m.
In two large quarto volumes, pi ice ten dol
lars in boards.
Sobfcribers will be furmfiied with the 2'd.
volume 011 paying three dollat s and a qjjatter
—hiving paid five dollars and a quarter oa
ir ceiviwg- the iicit.
This lecond volume comprehends, amon®
Othfcr imerefting pa't'culai s, a complete co
py iff the Records of the United CoJonies of
N. England,' in which the conduct of the C^n- i
miflioners relpefting tlie geneial concerns of
the colonies—rlie nrighb uting I'bans—and
the Duich at Miinhatuni (now New ¥or kJ, is
particularly detailed.
* * Materials are coHefted fiifficient to
foißi a THIRD VOLUME, The 'me of
publishing will dep.' d on the encourajjem *«t
t;o be derived fioni fojjrcriptioiiswtuch w llbe
reeeived by Thomas DobVon, Philadelphia ;
Jere. L'bbet, Portfinoutb, New Han plhirc;
Thomas icAndiew, & Dav. VVeft,Bo("»v; If
aia Thomas, Worcester ; Ifairc Beer?, New-
Haven; Timothy Grew, New Londo! ; Jnc l»
Richardson, Newport; John Carte r,' provi
dence ; Hugh Gaine, Thomas Allpn, e and
Samuel Caiivpbell, New York; Kieil ruk
Craig, Wilm ngion, Delawaie; Junes Rite,
Baltimore; Mr. Lindfey, Noriolk ; Bavi
Hsnderfon, Ficdericksbui j; J«hn Grammar
PeterJbtKg ; Augustine Davis, Hicbirtond ; F
X. Martin, Newbern, N. C. John
Wilmington; and William Price Yonpg,Chai-
Iffton.
April 4. niw&rfgw
Treasury- Department,
Revenue Office, April iftth, 1704.
Communications by post or
otherwise. will bi received by way nf nifor
m«tion at the Office of the Commiifiotier of
the Revenue from perfoo< willing to supply iron
Cannon, Cannon Ball, and Shells, for the for
tifications and Ships of War. 'I he frtne-fs of
the metal for canrion, and the capacity of the
fouiidcrs in fmeli ii)g, in pcepariiig and' m x
»ng the metal, and ln taftihg and hiring the
cannon (which are to be can foiUly) will re
quire to be par icularly dated. .
S iimlar communications wtl! also be ret; w
ed fiom anv persons willing to supply live
oak stud red cedar timber for the conftnsrti-nn
of jheftiips of war. Different plans of pro
curing and supplying '-he fame may be propof
cd. The convenience of the fiiuaiiorf in re
gard to navigation, and the state of the tim&er
whether already fallen or hereafter IP pc cut,
will require to fce noticed.
All the necessary particulars in regard to
the several articles which lire' wanftfrf, will oe
fpeciftea ir. contacts intended to be grounde4
in part on the information, which is hereby
I fought.
PASSAGE POUR sr.DOMINGVE.
Tousles Franfois qui fe font preiVnti
on voudront fe prcfenter pour avoir line
prompte jialFage pour St. Domingue, font :ri
ftamntent prieS'de laiffr leurs noms'atijsui
d'liui oo dennain, dans !e comotoir de jame*
Mo. Curach 4 Co. No 42 Dock street, ijiii
fe propofenr d'envoverfoo batimeot le Same,
di prochain'J de Mai: le bafiinent eit w>ut
pict pour faire a !a voile avec des bonr.es ac
commodations poor prfendre paffogers a hord.
April 29. 3 _
ANKEENS.
Nankeens cf Superior Quality,
FOR SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April 21. mw&ftf
PHILADELPHIA:
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No J
South Fourth-Street.