/ • * • - " J ~" ; -
EVENING AD V E R T I S E R.
[No. 144 of Vol. V.] Friday, May 50, 1794- [Whole No. 540.]
Agreeably to notice, a
meetnn* of the SWhf'cribcri to the Art let o
Agreement of the C lnmbinn Society, was
this day held at Mr. R.clia da's, for the pur
pose of clwfi"g Managers, &c. when the ol
iowitig fwrfons were t ioitn,: ,
Robert Morris, Prefidtnt.
MANAGERS. ' _ '
Jam:s Greenleaf
Trijlram Dnlton, 1
Jab.i fiicLotfon
Caleb Loiunes,
Tbama Fitzjimons.
"James Wilson■,
F. A. Muhlenberg,
Walter Stewa't,
Jor'jn Hall,
Richard Soderjlrom,
Nathaniel IV. Appleton.
Treasurer.
Garrett Coif ringer.
Mav 27 diw
JAMAICA RUM,
landing x: Hamilton's 1 1 ar f, above I
the Drawbridge, out of tie (hip Bacchus
Cept- VaNNE ma;, < f'" 1 " Ta.vaJCa,
FOR SALE BT
PETER BLIGHT.
May 16 ~ ri
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY and FRENCH
BURR stones,
FOR SALE BY
Gurney and Smith.
' May 14- d
REMAINING
OF THE
Ship India's Cargo,
FROM
bengal.
A small alTortraent of
BALE GOODS,
•2jo bag' COTTON of good .quality, which
would'probably mike an excellent .'enlttry
Quantity of PEi'PEK
For Sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
IVho has alio to dispose of
Barcelona Hand'fs-Vn boxes,
Holland Gin in cases,
Souchong, Hyson, and Tonkay Tea,
A quantity of Brimstone, &c.
Mav ,0 d 3 w
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAiIEY, No. 118.
Mai ket-'St reel,
An Eflay on Slavery,
Defined to exhibit in a new point «-t view
its etfe&s on morahi industry, and the peace of
Jociety. Some ia&s an. -Iculations are ottered
to prove the 'abor of j'ccincn to be much more
productive than that oi flava ; that countries are
rich, powerful and ha;>pv, in pfopoition as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hencr th*> ntctffary conclusion, that
slavery is impvlitic as well tt- unjujl.
I PutCE 25 Cents. dtf
February 15.
Advertiferaent.
THE telations o: Mr TltomasCurtis,for
merly of Ellicott's Upper Mills, ard lately of
the City of Washington, deceafid, are desir
ed to apply and have his affairs fettled.
City of Washington, April 22, 1764.
M. 5 1 m&th4w
Ccngrefs of the United States,
In Senate, Tuefaay May 13th, 1794*
ORDERED, that Rufut
fah Cutler, Robert Oliver and Griffin
Green, do, upon che third Monday of Decem
ber next, fhe\r catife to the Senate, why so
much of the grants of land to theru the said
Rnfijs Putnam, ManafTah Cutler, Robert
Oliver and Griffin Greer, purfnant to an Ast
-entitled " An ast authorizing the grant and
conveyance of certain lands to the Ohio Com
pany of aflTociates," shall not be declared
void, as may interfere with and be fufficient
tofatisfy the claims of the French iettlers
at Galliopolif
Ordered, that the delivery of a copy of
the above order to Rufus Putnam, ManafTah
Cutler, Robert Oliver, or Griffin Green, and
the publication of the fame, one month, in
one of the Gazettes printed in this City, shall
be deemed fufficient notice thereof.
Extract from the Journals of Senate.
Attest,
SAM. A. OTIS, fecretarv.
May 14. mi.
J*
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Honjes or Pubt'c
Opces,
Two brick 3 Itory Houses,
HAVING 610 >mt» in each, with fi.eoUces
beside aarre.s, lunate 011 the fouih wetter Jy lide
of Dock ftrtei, between Pear and Walnut
itreets. Enqut-e of
BENJAMIN IV. MORRIS.
April 17. rut Scstf
For Sale or Charter,
Burthen iooo barrels.
is a ti u uncli fact falling new velf.'l,well [•
found, and ready for any voyage, enher to |
Europe, or tti Weit indies. For terms ap- I
ply 10
DEBLOIS & MIECK. |
At their store, between Wa nut and Ctaeiiiut (
street wharves. . |
May *53 d
ADVERTISEMENT.
I
LETTERS on the fubjea of the Walh- :
ington Lottery, being by ir.iftake repeatedly
addrtffed to the Commiffionei s for the City
of Walhington,
F erfons concerned are hereby informed,
that all such should be addreilccl euher to Vv.
Deakinsjun. of Walhington, or to the Sub—
lcriber. Tije coiruiulnoucrs never having j
conte.aplated any lurcher concern in tl»is -1
bulinds, than in their afient to receive the I
bonds approve the names of he mana
gers. The prizes have been paid and are
paying on demand by W. Deakins, W aih- |
ington, Peter Oilman, Boston, and by the j
Sublenber. .
For the Lottery No. 2, the securities al
ready given will be retained by the conimif 1
fioners, or transferred by them at their i
option to the .bank of Columbia ; anel the
Commiifioners will be confuked relpedting
a judicious and equitable disposition or the j
nouses to be built thereby ; their : r tiiur v djf
the Bank of Columbia will rict-ve the.mo- *
- ~ and they will nomination j'
of the 24 managers; but ail the relponiibility
refpe(fting the general of the tic
kets, and payment oi prizes, will reft as
in the Hotel .Lottery, on the peri'ons whole
names are and may oe hereafter publiihed as
aifiltanis to forwaidthis bufimfs wi.ii
S. BLODGET.
Philad. May aS, d— 3 t.
Morris Academy.
THIS ill .ution is now open for »ne recep
tion of lfudents under the immediate care of
Mr. Caleb RulTell, whose abilities as an tn
ftruetor, and attachment to the business have
long been known and approved. He has un
der him the bed affillants in the different
branches —Tbe scholars are taught the En
glilh, French, La.in, and Gnek languages,
Public-Speaking, Writing, Arithmetic, Geo.
graphy, Aflronomy,. and the various branch
es ot the Mathematics. The healthy fixa
tion of this place is such as to recommend it
to those, who with to have their chidren in
the country. Boaiding, washing, mend ng,
&c. will be provided in good families, and
the morals of the scholars carefully attended
to.
The price including tuition, firewood, &c.
eexclufive of the French language) will not
xceed thirty potmdsproclamation money per
annum) an addition of three dollars per quar
ter will be marie to such scholars who are
teught the French language. The Diitftors
ai edetermihed to pay such attention to this
institution, as will render it refpcflable and
ufefui.
GABRIEL H. FORD,
TIMOTHY JOHNS, jun. V- Direft's.
NATHAN FORD, 3
Morriftown, May 15, 1794
diw.—wsm.
THE office of the P 'efident and D reftori
«f the Insurance Company of North
America, is removed to No. 107, South
Front street, being the south ealt corner of
Front and Walnut llreets.
Mav , tfef 1 m
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglheads and in caUs of 50 bodies each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Win 6 ;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, ho?,(heads and quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111, South Fioni-itreet.
Jan. 2, 1794. dtf
Midwifery.
Dr. Price, Fellow of the Anti
quanau Society, and of Jesus Collrg • in the
University of Oxford, See. &rc. formerly lec
tuter on Midwifery, in London, will com
mence ra' lv in »he Antnipn, a complete
Course of Lectures,
ON THE
Theory & practice of Midwifery
Y With the latejl Improvements) '
Afid on the various Diseases incident to Wo
men and Chiidren ; of which timely notice
will he given.
May 26 3t
Cincinnati of Pennsylvania,
May 28, 1794.
A STATED meeting of the (landing Com
mittee will he held on Monday evening next
at 7 o'clock at the Concftogue waggon. Ar
rau'ements for ihe4th July bring neceflary to
be to med, the members are requested punc
tual) to attend.
JOSEPH HOWELL,
r!4t Secretary pro Tem.
A New Novel.
To the LADP S of Philadelphia.
This Dnv is PuhUJhed by
MATHEW CAREY,
118, Market street,
Price, bound, five ei»nths of a dollar, sewed
in marble paoer, 'hall a rlaVa 1- ,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
IN TWO VOLUMES.
By Mrs. ROWSON, of the New Theatre,
Phladelphia, Author of Victoria, the In
quifttot, th<',F : lle de Chambre. &c.
Of / Charlotte, the Reviewers have given
the following char after. J*.
IT may be a Tale of Truth, for it is not
unnatural, and it is a talc of real diitrefs.—
Cltarl tre, by the artifice of a teachei, recom
a school, from humanity rather
than a con vision of her integrity, or the re
gularity of her former conduct, is enticed
irf lul -| , ■ ■— ' " fc
>iiic?r to America.—The marn?ge cereino
ny, if not forgotten, is postponed, and Char
lotte d>es a martyr to the incouftancy oi the
direr, and treachery ot his friend —T!»e fitu--
tions are artleHs and affeftirrjt—tl.e defciip
arions natural and pathetic ; we ftiould set
for Charlotte if such a person ever existed.
who for one er or scarcely, perhaps, deserved
so feve'e a punishment. If it is a fiftio» ,
poetic Justice is not, we think, properly dil
tri uted
Said Carey has jujl pubfi/hed,
A 2 ftieet map of Kentucky
compiled by Elihu Baker, price or.e dollar
and two thirds.
War Atlas, containing map* of France,
Germany, Spa n,ltaly, the Provinces,
the Netherlands, and the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars.
Map of New Jersey—Hals a dollar.
Maps of Vermont, Conne&icut,Delaware,
Georgia—Price three eighths of a dollai
each.
April 29. tutb&s3w
HORSES.
Anthony Wechter, living in Third street
near Callowhill ftieet, at the sign of the
Pennsylvania Arms No. 214,
HAS FOR SALE,
One Pair
Bright Bay Horses,
6 years old, upwards of 15 hands high—
and one pair Chefnut Brown with blazes, 4
years old, about 15 hands high. The term»
will be made known, by applying to Mr. <
Wechter. 5t
JUST PUBLISHED,
MATHEW* CAREY, .
118, MarketJlreet,
Price 18 cents,
THE
Catechism of Man ;
Pointing out from found principles, and ac
knowledged fadts the Rights and of
every Rational Being.
' Am I therefore become yourenemy because I
'ell you the truth ? Gal. iv. 16
Now ail tbefe things happened unfo them for
examples, and they written for our
admonitipn, upon whom the ends of the
earth are come. i Cor. xii.
May ao tuth&s2W
From the Gametic of Main.
Mr. Titcomb,
EVER fond as I know you are of any
thing that tends to promote the interefi of
your country, you will oblige your eafteru
customers, by giving to the public the fol
lowing account cf (hipping belonging to the
diftriS of Penobfcot, which I heve obtained
from the Cui'iom-Houfe in that diftridt, and
is authentic,
lours, Josephus.
on ■n Tons. 95'thr
Registered Tonnage on the
31ft of March 1794 * ?4
Enrolled Tonnage at the
fame date IJ9 <5 5 g
Licences outstanding on
that day, of
Veflels under 20 Tons 383 jj
Tons 3323 J4
Of those veflels registered and enrolled,
132,6 Tons were built and launched in the
district, in 1792 and 1793, exc'ufive of about
five hundred tons which were built in and
fold out of the diftri<3, during the fame pe
riod. T0 (hew the rapid increase of proper
ty in this infant and uncultivated country,
it need only be known, that in the year 1787
there was not two hundred tons of naviga
tion of every description owned in the dif
tria, and but one vefiel that exceeded the
burthen of thirty tons.—The inhabitants of
this vie nity, during our late glorious revolu
tion were exceedingly harrafied by the priva
teers of Nova Scotia, nor did they
the like treatment fr<Jm some of their friends
at the westward.—Peace was succeeded by
swarms of Jack-Afles, or pretenders to trade,
who came here from the western (hore, un
acquainted with business, with the country,
and every other requisite necefiary to etifure
success, not ' nly ruined themselves, but tend
ed greatly to impoverish the people.
At the adoption of the Federal Govern
ment the scale began to turn. —And (hould
we now escape a war (which Heaven grant
we may) we bid fair to make a refpe&able
figure, both in the agricultural mm mar
Penobfcot, May, 1794.
UNITED STATES.
DUMFRIES, (Virg.) May 12.
A correspondent informs, " That the
inditJment which was to have been present
ed againlt some members of a certain so
ciety, chiefly composed of the swinish
multitude, for talking about Tar and Fea
thers at a late meeting, is for the prefect
quafh'd ! An eminent character of the
law, having given it as his opinion—
" That uulefs the corpus of plaintiff was,
actually diverted of his
ced to the Hate of our firft parents—and
forcibly wrapp'd up in the American coat
of mail, with which, plaintiff was only
threatened, defendant would produce cause
of writ, which would occasion a non [urn
informatus." This sentence of the learn
ed gentleman of the law, has induced the
high offended party to drd£ a prosecution
whieh otherwise would have crushed a re
bellions Hydra, who dares to avow fentU
ments diametrically opposite to those of
the well-born part of the community."
Our correspondent, congratulates bis
felloivfivine on thus fortunately escaping
the disaster which threatened their diflb
lution—would recommend to them, cau
' tioufly to avoid a repetition of the two
obnoxious articles, Tar and Feathers.
WHITESTOWN, N. Y. May 14.
The following may be depended on as
fact : some boatmen were proceeding with
a boat load of fait and other articles, va
lued at 601. from the Onondago fait spring
to Niagara. While p. fling Fort Ofwego,
a detachment of Biitijh forces, stationed at
that place, seized the boat and cargo, and
condemned them as a legal prize. The
owner of the property feized,obtained in
formation that a boat was difpatched.froia
[ Niagara, some time since, to Schenecta
dy, on the Mohawk River, by the fub
jecis of his Bi itanic majesty, for articles
to a confiderablc amount. Exasperated
at his usage at Fort Ofwego, he raised
party of men, and proceeded to the threarirer points where ttiey came a cross,
the boat be.onging to Niagara, on ks re
turn, with a cargo valued at upwards of
three hundred pounds; which they seized
upon as a reprisal of the property taken
from them at Fort Ofwego.
' We hear further, that the banks of
the rivers to the westward arc lined with
privateers, in wait for boats bound to Ni
agara, and other British fettlenients,
which they are determined to detain, not
only as reprisals, but as violations of the
embargo laid upon all vefTels in the ports
and harbors of the United States.
Fur the Gazette of the United States
Oh America ! How highly favored
have thy sons thought themselves, when
in pursuit of honest industry—each one
fitting under his own vine and fig-tree,
and none to make him afraid ! But, alas !
The change —the ears of our brethren
are deafened —their hands are ready to
fall on the poor defencelefs Citizens, who
after y'ears of toil and fatigue, expeCted
they had found an Asylum for their years,
and a profpeft for the advancement of
their offspring in their growing industry,
established in a manufacture, the produce
of our country —and which we had long
been beholden to other nations for, but
by the perseverance of her Sons have at
length brought to that perfection, as to.
supply demand—well this bright prof
peft mud be changed. Freedom ! Where
i wilt thou prepare tlwfelf an abode ? Our
houses are no longer oui castles: The
fight of an Excise Officer, ready to seize
the small profits which would have paid
the expeCted demand, or gone to procure
the means of a continuance in the busi
ness from which we expeCt our bread.
Reflection points out many characters
who with difficulty itruggle along ? Is it
• then those who have been rather more
fortunate in the business, that the exac
tion is to be made from ? Has not their
property an equal (hare in beaiing the
burthens of government, without taxing
their industry ?
0 my countrymen ! Diftinite not your
brethren, who will chearfully tontribute
their proportion in the direCt and open _
line. Destroy not the infant manufac
tures of America: There is yet difficul
ties enough in the way to render them
flow in their progress. Take not the
— —i i- J
means of support. '
It has been said, it is for the purpose
of freeing onr brethren in Algiers from
Slavery. We look on freedom, the great
est of blefiings, and I would cheerfully
fpaie the price of a suit of cioathing for
this purpose, and hope there is not less
patriotism, even In the women of Ameri
ca than formerly—in the yea) 1779, they
went from door to door, when they were
told their brave soldiers wanted Ihirts ;
and appropriated their collections to buy
linen and make them ; such voluntary
gifts expand the human heart, and poste
rity records these noble exertions.
1 have now only to add that our respec
ted Senate would, by throwing out, this
detested excise law, this bane to religion,
morals, and freedom, include amongst
the number to return them her unfeigned
thanks, one deeply interested.
A Female Tobacconist.
From the General Aduert'tfer.
From good authority we can Rate that
Mr. Monroe of the senate was nominated 1
yesterday to succeed Governeur Morris as f
minilter to the republic of France. The real
friends of their country will no doubt rejoice
that the important trust of drawing closer
the ties which unite the filter republics
Ihould be placed in hands so worthy the
confidence of republicans. 1
The following remarks on the above para
graph, were omitted yesterday for want
of room.
A correspondent congratulates the Prep.-
dent on having at length done something to
merit the approbation of the party.
A paragraph in yesterday's General Ad
•vertifer announces the nomination of Mr
Monroe of the Senate in terms of high pane
gyrick, as tending' to cement our ties with
France, by placing the trufl in hands so wor
thy of the public confidence : the paragraphia
is silent as to the circumstance of taking a
member of the Senate to fend on a foreign
Embajy, and the Very member who (report
fays) was among the molt opposed to Mr.
Jay s million, b.-caufe he was a judicial of
ficer. What must the public think of the
purity and patriotism which dictated so keen
an opposition in the Senate, in the Demo
cratic Club and in the paragraphs of the
General Advertiser, to Mr. Ja/s appoint
ment, on the ground of incomp atibilit y, and
which no* not only arqulefces in ijut even
■anrgjrife.j the appointment of Mr, Monroe ?
Is it not deoKMiftrable that it originated
entirely in party and factious views, and
t*r<s aor founded on public motives of na
tional expediency ? If it was a deviation
from the principiss of the Constitution to
take a judicial officer for an executive ap
pointment, was it less so to take a lcgifla
tive officer ? If the precedent was dange
rous in the one cafe, was it not equally so
in the other; it was said, the executive
might prevent an impeachment by remov
ing a judge whose influence, abilities and
enmity he dreaded ? Might he not resort
to this indirect mode or getting rid of a
troublesome oppufer of his measures in the
Senate? If there was an impropriety in
fending on a foreign embafly a judge, who
might eventually fit in judgment on a
'treaty, which he had formed, under the
positive directions of the President, is there
no impropriety in seleCting for that office
a member of a body, which determined th; t
there Should be such an office, and which
fixed the pay of the officer ? Wh-re then is
the consistency of those who clamored against
the appointment of the fudge and now ap
prove that of the Senator ? If there was
danger in one cafe, where the appointment
was only temporary and for a particular and
fpecified obje<!l, is not the danger enhanced
in the cafe of a permanent and general ap
pointment ? might not the circumstance of
lending a nomination for the fanition of the
candidates friends and intimates, and fellow
members, always influenced by the Esprit de
corps, be dwelt upon as a serious objection
by those disposed to cavil ?
The writer of the above, while he fees no
validity in any cf the above objeftkms, sug
gests them merely to attracS the public at
tention so the conduit of the party, to dif
pl .y in a strong cafe their views, and to ex
hibit the wonderful effedts of a fop to CerbeYus.
It mult occur to every pne who has watched
their motions, that had this honor been con
ferred on a person of opposite politics, a no
mination, whitli received an unanimous v6te
.in the Senate, would, as in the cafe of Mr.
Jay, have excited a tempest of three days
duration, would have been carried with dif
ficulty, would have filled columns of a party
paper with libellous insults and dirty infmu
ations against the President, the oificeV apt
pointed and the majority of the Senate, and
would even have roused the patriotic ardor
Democratic Society.
Foreign Intelligence.
LONDON, April 4.
It we may believe a prospeCtus now
circulating, the Prince of Saxe Cobourg
is to take the field with a Printing Press
in his train. The accounts of military
operations from this new implement of
field equipage, we may venture 10 pre
dict, will be as full and impartial as those
which used to appear in the Brussels Ga
zette. It will be of particular service to,
some papers, for moll of the articles
which they were formerly obliged to ma
nufacture, it will furnilh ready made.
Ihe 1 urkifh Ambassador is certaihly
on the eve of his departure from London,
and a vessel has been appointed by gov
srnment to take him from Dover to Of.
tend.
Several rumours were yesterday in cir
culation respeCting the cause of this ab
rupt departure, as, whatever his business
mignt have been, his excellency departs
re ir.faCta. Ihe cause is, however, obvi
oufiy to be found in the recapture of
j. fouioil, which extinguilhed the idea's of
t the British force in the Mediterranean,
and procured to the Freneh intereit the
ascendancy in the Divan.
_ Accounts have been received from Tu
rin, Hating, that the forces under the
command of General Dundas and Lord
Hood were in possession of Baftia, which
had surrendered to our forces. Calvi,
the only p]?ce of importance which re
mained in the island of Corsica, had offer
ed terms of capitulation, which had not
been acceded to. The accounts had just
reached Turin from Leghorn before the
messenger set out.
A letter from an intelligent correspond
ent on the continent, received by the last
mails, contains the following very agreea
ble communication, which, as friends of
humanity, we earnestly wish to be realiz
?TX" u rila >' de P e "d upon it, that
the definable event of a peace will very
oon take place. Negociations for that
purpose have been carrying on for some
time between the belligerent powers ; and
the people of Brabant entertain the moll
confident expectations of a speedy anda
micable adjuttmeot of all differences."
\fc have the J'aris papers of the 25th,
26th and 27th of March. They con
tain an account of further discoveries
made with respeCt to the conspiracy, and
a full report (which will be found in the
Oracle) of the trial of Hcbert and his par
ty. The situation of Paris is tranquil,
and the discovery and destruCtion of the
conspiracy seem to have produced on the
part of the people an unanimous determi
nation to support the National Convention.
Baron Stael arrived about the middle
of last month at Copenhagen, for the ve
ry important purpose of negociating a
treaty between Sweden and Denmark,
for the protection of the Commerce of
the two kingdoms, and for the mainte
nance of their neutrality, by a powerful
naval armament.
Letters have been received in town by
the Lord Mayor, and other persons, from
Jersey and Guernsey, dated the 28th of
March, which state, that the alarm in Jer
sey hadconfiderably subsided. The force
landed upon the Isles of Chauze amount
ed only to 2000 men ; the Carmagnole
frigate of 44 guns, had been wrecked up
on that island, but the crew were saved.
The circumstance of her firing a number
of guns of distress had occasioned part of
the alarm in Jersey.
From the Lower Rhine? March 24.
By various accounts we learn, that the
negociations of the King of Pruflia for
the provisioning of his army by the fix
neighbouring Circles have not succeeded ;
the elector of Bavaria and the duke of
Wurtumberg particularly exenfed them
selves, and were followed by various of the
other Circles; since which we have received
certain accounts that all the Pruflian army,
except the Contingent of 20,000 men, will
shortly march back to Cologne, and last
Thursday the ftadholder of Bonn arrived at
Cologne, to give notice to the chapter of
the approaching march of the Prussian
troops, and a Prussian officer is arrived
there to notify the fame to the magistracy ;
but as some arrangements must be made to
provide the troops with sustenance on their
march to Cologne, they will not march
from Mentz for some time.
The king of Prussia wrote a letter to the
prince Cobourg, dated the 1 ith, acquaint
ing him with the above resolution, adding
that the Prussian troops ffionld not march
all at once, but in divisions, that the Ge
~in ml n.:. T Lfc t.. rllr-iO fi fI A.
fures as might prevent the enemy from
taking advantage of their departure, and
that he might secure the fortrefs of Mentz
and the empire from any incursion.
-A.pi il 5.
Yesterday Mr. Sparrow, the king's mes
senger, arrived at the secretary of state's
office, with dilpalches from the Britiffi
head-quarters, dated
St. AMAND, April 1.
On Saturday last, the enemy, in very
great fuice, attacked the Austrian advanc
ed polls near Cateau, and carried three vil
lages ; but as loon as two battalions in the
rear moved forward with some cavalry,they
were repulsed with the loss of 584 men,
whose bodies were found.
On the 22d of March, three Prussian
regiments passed through Mayence, on
their return home, and large detachments
of horse and'foot from the Austrian army
under general Braun, have actually set out
to replace them.
By the information of the Captain of an
American vessel it appears,that the French
fleet, to the number of twenty-eight ffiips
of the line, is at sea in different dfvifions.
Our Frankfort correspondent's impor
tant letter is replete with accounts of the
universal alarm in which the ciefeiiton of
the King of Prussia has involved all the
Germanic States.
The account of the surrender of Baftia
was not received by government, as stated
yesterday in mod of the papers. It was
mentioned in dispatches received by the
Neapolitan Ambassador, and, we believe,
only as a report.
Mrs. Jordan's son is named George—
Prince of Wales stood godfather.
LAW REPORT.
Wood v. Modigliam.
This was an action to recover of the de
fendant the sum of iool. being his fub
'lf I®*1®* to a P<?'icy of insurance on the
vessel Commodore Hood, at and from Fal
mouth to Swansea and back. The defen
dant was the only under writer who defen
ded this a£tion, all the reft having paid
their iubfenptions.
The defence was, that there had been,
on the part of the plaintiff, a concealment
of material {»fts when the , , )
fecied, which ,f ,he y ' f "
him and the reft of thTuS W " W
would have confiderablv encreafedlh"' *
mium.—Verdict for Plaintiff "
The Citizen Sans Culottes
and
Mr. Aristocrat in Charaa e rifti«'
DRESSES win niake their a " er^ lC
Cherry Alley at 8 o'clock rl.i.
May p to " mO, ' r ° W eVehinß '
* *<tat
Four Dollars Reward.
A NEGRO MAN, named L'Elperaiuc a
b»ut 25 years of age, of .he Co, J,
et " ,C f ' s h 'E h 5 ll'eaks very li tlc EnjvVJH
r»" away f,<M„ | lls master the __
fL e *"a f a 7' tll away l,i,h » »
g.een broad cloth corn, and » rtic! „ .f
house furaitu e. U'Wver fl»|| take and
fecuve the above negro i„ , m . ROl ,
he may be brought to justice fl, ,11 receive the
above reward. Enqiri eof l,e Fnnter
M3 > 3° mw*"f 4 t
All persons who have any Jc~
mand. upon the New Theatre, a e TequetT
ed to fend in ttieir account, to No.
Arch tlrel t, near Eighth street, as f (ll „ a .
cdnvcnitnt.
WIGNELL Si REINAGLF.
Na - V 3" 1 - dtf.
It is Requested,
THAI 110 peifonwiil lupplv any articles
for the use of the New Thea. without an
ofder in writing, signed by ou.Jc-lves, 01 Sam
uel Anderfon, for us.
WIGNfcLL & REINAGIE
Ma y 3°- dtf.
NEW THEATRE.
Mr. Marshall's Night.
THIS EVENING,
May 30.
Will be prefeiited,
A COMEDY, called
As You like It!
(Written by Shakespeare.)
Orlando, Mr. Memos
Adam, Mr. Whitlcrk
Duke Senior, Mr. Green
Duke Frederic, Mr. Warrell
Amiens, (with songs) Mr. Marfaalt
M u «, Mr. Chalmers
- Beu ' Mr - Kncl.
OWgT-, -Mr: H 3 rwnod —
Jaques de Bois, Mr. Darley jivu~
Dennis, Matter J, WarfeU
Charles, Mr Row Con
Touchstone, Mr. Bates
Corin > Mr. De Mo-jlin
Sylvius, Mr. Cleveland
William, Mr. Francis
Rosalind, ( with the Cuckoo feng J
Mrs Marshall
Cd'a, Mrs. Francis
Phcebe, Mrs. Cleveiand
Audrey, Mrs. Shaw
In acft ift—a pafioral DANCE, by Mr.
Francis, Mr. Bellona, and
Mrs De Marque.
End of atfl I, DIBDIN's favorite ballad,
called POOR TOM ; or, the SAILOR's
EPITAPH, by Mr. Darley.
End of the Plav, a comic di!Tertation on
HOBBY WORSES will be delivered by
Mr. Marlhall, in the chara&er of a Jcc
key—defcriptive of—The Soldier's Hoo
by—The Lawyer's Hobby—The Beaux
Hsbby —The Ladies Hobby—The Mana
ger's Hobby— Mrs. Warrell's Hobby—
and his Own Hobby.
To which' v.-ill be added,
An OPERATIC FARCE, never perform
ed here, called
Hartford Bridge;
Or the
SKIRTS OF A CAMP.
Sir Gregory Forrefter, Mr. Gates
Peregrine Forrefter, Mr. Morcton
Captain Fieldair, Mr. Mariball
Captain Forrefter, Mr. Cleveland
Cartridge, Mr. Ftancia
Peter, Mr. Bliflet
Waiter, Mr. Finch
Clara, Mrs. Marshall
Susan, Mils Wilinns
Bar Maid, Mrs. Rc vfm
Soldiers, Melfrs. Warrell, Darley
jun. T. Warrell,
Lee, Bason, &c.
Soldier's LalTes, Mrs. Cleveland, Mrs.
Finch, Mrs. Bales,
Mils Rowfon, tic.
Tickets to be had of Mr. Marihall, No.
66, north Eighth street. At Carr aiul Ce't
Muiic (hop, and of Mr. Franklin at the
1 heatre, where places may be taken.
Mrs. WARRELL's Benefit wili be oa
M.jmlay next.
The Comic Opera of LIONEL and
CLARIS&A, with a farce and enterrain
ments.
Boxes one dollar, Pitt three quarters, Gal
lery, half a dollar.* ' Hi
The TIMES, No. XI.
The love of power is the piedominating
pnffion ot mail.
Americans read of the persecUtion? of
Nero and Domitian with horror—They
fbudder at the recital of the tortures in
flicted on heretics in Europe—the rack—
iinprifonment—flames and death -They
wonder the Pope, priests, and princes can
punifll men for their faith —for not be
lieving the floftrines of the dtablilhed
church.
But look at home—mutato nomine, de
fe fabula narratur—only change names,
Popes into democrats; and heretics in mode
rate federal men, vulgarly tailed ariflocrats,
and the fame femes are hatching—they
are in embv'yo—and nothing (granting but
a little more power in the party, to revive
all the horrors of perfecuti Already the
incendiaries, the Catalinps of America
threaten vengeance upon their eppofers—
rot only in private converfatioii, but in
the public papers, the friends of peace,
ind the fnpporters of our government are
menaced with terrible Vengeance. This
is the fame perfecting difpolition, which
has deluged the world in blood for con
science fake—and whether religion or go
vernment is the pretext, one part of man
kind are eternally quarelling with the other
about their opinions; eternally endeavoring
to make all others think and believe like
themfelvcs.
" Man's third for power," fays a cele
brated I'Vcnch philolopher, " is insatiable.
Not content with commanding men, he
would command their spiu'ms also. He
is as anxious to subdue the reason of his
fellow citizens, at fume eastern despot is
to usurp the provinces or the treasuries of
his neighbors." Just so is the fad in A
merica ; and private clubs, under a pre
text of Republican fm, are attempting to
controul public measures, and threaten
the men who are of opposite sentiments.
" Man," ■ lays the fame writer, " does
not fhink lumfelf truly matter of others,
if he does not bring their minds into fub
jligation. To effect this he employs
iOicc ne at length lubdues reason. Men
are completely degraded by believing opi
nions thsy ai*e forced to profefs. What
reafpning begins, isfinifhed by violence."
Wh i does not fee these truths verified in
America, where men are burnt in effigy
' for their independence of mind.—
In tjj£_uani£ .t»f couimoii sense, let me
ask 1 hat is the difference, between a
French King's ifluing Lettres de Cachet,
: or banishing a man for his opinions, and
a mob hanging a man in effigy for the
fame thing ? The names and the persons
are changed, but the violence and the ty
ranny are of the fame species, differing
only in degiee. It is a violence offered
to freedom of opinion'—a in France
and a Mob in Ameiica have committed
equally an outrage oil the liberties of
ethers. It is an atttempt to subdue opi
nions, the right of winch is sacred and
inviolable. When Roufleau and Voltaire
pubhfhed opinions that the King of France
or the Dodtors of the Sorbonne did not
like, they.conspired to destroy the mtiw
and exile was their portion. When a
Smith of an Ames, as honest men un
quediona.ily as ever lived, publish opin
ions that a cahal of mock patriots do not
like, the junto confpirc to disgrace them
■ they tin eaten, and only want the pow
e., to inflict on them the moit summary
vengeance. Is this a land of freedom J
Is this the reign of republicanism, when
law and not despotic ■nvill and pajfion, is to
govern ? Gracious Heavens ! Let me ra
ther liv? tinder an Eastern Rajah, than
linder the despotism ot a mob !
Sim?. Minerva.
UNITED STATES.
NEW-YORK, May 26.
On the night of Saturday the 18th in
<mt, there was, in some parts of the coun
ty, e more fevcre frolt than has been, for
many years, known at the fame season.
I lirough Columbia county in this state,
a ' lo northward through Renfaellaer
and Albany counties, its are very ,
Ni lble and calamitous. Moll kinds of gar
den vegetables, every fort of fruit, great
quantities of peas, flax, oats, wheat and rye
ai e tftroyed. Some farmers have plowed
t ie 4 r Lax for a second sowing. Many 1
'e s: of wheat on the Pitch Pine Plains are ;
wholly turned yellow, and the wheat is
''ppoftu to be totally' killed. In more I i
eitva -ed situations, the leaves only of the
wheat and oats appear to be affected, i
Throughout the counties above mentioned
the small oaks, hickory, chefnut, and some
other kinds of trees arc killed : at leafl the
leaves are as dry as in the winter. In forne
parts of Reniellaer county, efpeci ally new
Hoofack river, the oaks, Handing detach
ed from forefls, many of them 60 or 70
feet high, have not a green leaf remaining.
Fo the southward of Columbia county the
frofl was lighter. Through Dutchafs
county and to this city the wheat and
much of the fruit has escaped. To the
eastward from Narwalk to Hartford, we
are told, the effe£ts of the froft are vi iibfe.*,
but not severely injurious: further east
ward towards Boston, the damage done fs
very great.
CHESTERTOWN, May 27.
The Distance of places from Philadelphia
to this town, taken by Mr. Samuel Dudley,
ot Kent comity, with a machine which he
nas construCted to measure roads with ease,
and facilitate the taking of maps, and which
is found to ifi its measurement with
a great degree of exactness. From Philadel-
P h,ato . TotaL
_ , _ Mites Perches M. P.
Greys Ferry 3
3 180 7 100
defter 7' 120 14 220
VV llmington Ix 2 60 17 ifio
T^Tr Castle 5 * 91 33 131
40 260
Middletown i 2 too
Warwick 14 10 ,
Head of Saflafras 3 17 60 i'o
G. T. Cress Roads 5 181 66 20
Sims s Tavern 6 250 71 270
Cheftertown 8 3*3 8 x 260
The distance taken from the old Court
house in Market street, Philadelphia, to the
mprket-houfe in Chellertown.
The prog refs of the journey was not the
eafi retarded while taking the above dif
laaces.
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY 30.
Yesterday arrived at Chester the ship
Pigou, Captain Robertfon, from London,
which place the left the Bth of April, A
few days ago, spoke the Biitifh frigates Dae
dalus and Terpsichore, from the Cbefapeake.
There are one hundred pafiensrers on board
the Pigou.
Decree of the National Convention of the
27th day of Pluviofe (l-]th March) Se
cond Tear oj the French Republic, One
and Jhdivifible ( - — 7 -
1 HE National Convention, after hav
ing heard their Committee of Public
Safety, decree—
Art. I.
The Flag dec-eed by the Constituent
National Aflembly is fupprefied.
Art. 11.
The National Hag (hall be formed of'
the three National colours, disposed in
three equal stripes, placed vertically, so
that the blue be nearest to the ftafF; the
white in the middle, and the red floating
in the air.
Art. 111.
The Jack and Enlgn (hall be difpjfed
in the fame manner, observing the propor
tion in the size which is established by cus
tom.
Art. IV.
The Pendant fliall likewise be formed
of three colors ; one-fifth to be blue,
one-fifth white and three-fifths red.
Art. V.
The National Flag shall be hoifled on
board of all the vessels of the Republic
on the firft day of Prairial (20th May).
The minister of the Marine shall give of
course all necessary orders.
Says a CorrefpondeM.
A schism, among the powers combined
against France wa: early jvedi<sted.
Independent of the natural principles
Which repel the component parts of such an
aflbciation from forming a lasting combina
tion, many persons suppose that at the prc
fent day, there is less good faith and honesty
of motive in the condua of the persons in
verted withthepowers of government in the
European world, than at almolt any prece- I
ding period.
Hence they fay it is a very easy thing
to account for the secession of the king of
Prussia from what has been denominated a
common cause among the crowned heads
If Frederick has entered into the war from
meer motives of speculation and profit,
the present appears the molt favorable
moment for him to make an advantageous
bargain—and it is not probable that the
allies conjointly, will be able to make him
so advantageous an offer, as 'the french.
One million and peace with France, would
probably be better than fix, to continue
in the war, provided he can prefcrve hi
I j dominions frofri the attacks of any of tie
! powers, who may take umbrage at his
feceflion. i
T he preceeding remarks are predicated
tfn this ideaj that the interference of the
King of Pruflia in the war, was founded
on mercenary principles altogether—and
in truth many cii ctrmftartees in the eourfe
of events haveferved to confirm this sup
: position. It is pretty evident that Dumo
rier by his address, diverted Frederick at
a critical moment, and induced him to
' make a retrograde motion from the line of
cOnquelt. On that occasion it is highly
probable that a golden shower dazzled his
optics— in succeeding tranfaftions, the
Prussian Army has appeared to ast fome
tirnes as if it had a separate and independ
ent object in view—at others as if indiffer
ent to the i(Tue of the contest. Perhaps
after all,the real motives of the feceflion
of Frederick are not yet developed; fliould
it turn out that His people are forming
donieftic plans of revolution, he may find
it necessary to go home, left while he is
attempting a counter-revolution abroad, he
may lose what he has left behind,
A letter from Cape Henlopen dated on
Tuesday morning lail, has a poftcript which
fays, that two frigates were then seen off
the Capes, but were at such a distance, that
it could hot be determined what nation they
belonged to.
For the Gazette of the United States
ANECDOTES of Anacharfis Cloots.
This extraordinary character lately guil
lotined at Paris, diitinguithed himfelf si rc m I
the earlielt period of the revolution : *
Prussian by birth and celebrated for his
philosophic researches, he was invited into
trance, where it does not appear that he
ushered himfelf into public notice, till the
appearance of some periodic.'l works—
m,, e admired for breathing the true spirit
ot liberty, than from the singularity of his
itile, which was little relished, being too
laboured and dogmatic for the refined taste
of a Frenchman :—there was a mixture of
folly and wisdom in this man's a&ions, and
he leemed to pride himfelf on his eccen- ''
tricity. He called himfelf V orateur du
genre buma'tn*—the orator of the human race,
and adtually picked up in the streets a na»
tive of every country in the universe that
were to be found in Paris. He preceeded
this odd assemblage to the National CorK
vention, and in a pompous speech of some
length addrefied the Convention. His fo
reign accent was so uncouth, that he excit
ed the rilibiiity of the members, which
they ftifled, when he annonced to them
his new title, and prayed the humanity of
the nation ;n behalf of his fellow fojurners
who probably, added he, are driven from
their refpeftive countries by the hand of
tyranny and seek an afylmn in a land of
liberty. He was universally applauded,
and it was deceed, that all people without
diflindtion of color or nations putting
tliemfelvcs under the protection as France
fliould enjoy the fame privileges as French
citizens.
He had formerly received a flattering
letter from the PrufTian Monarch's own
hand, accompanied with a golden medal
as a reward for some work of merit; at
the time when the people were making
public, offerings of money, plate, jewels,
&c. he presented the royal medal, and
begged't might be immediately cast into
the crucible ; and after having read aloud
the letter,^ he indignantly tore it and Mat
tered the pieces in the air, looking round
with exulting triumph.
This and other proofs of patriotism,
made him very popular—and soon after
we fee him seated as a National Repre
sentative at the fame period with Tho
mas Paine.
The Convention anticipated much from
the labors of those two celebrated cha
racters—but the intrigue and violence of
party soon fucceding, we hear no men
tion made of either, till the feceflion of ;
Thomas Paine, and the conspiracy for
which Anacharfis Cloots was co ndemned,
and executed.
A TRAVELLER.
30th May, 1794.
A special meeting of the American Philo
fophmal society will be held at their Hall,
THIS evening at seven o'clock ; in order to
consider and determine on proposals made bv
Mr. Peale to rent part of the Hall, for the '
purpose of accommodating his Museum.
A full meeting of the members is requefled.
By order of the President. {
11. PATTERSON, Sec'y. '
May 25. I
f ■'
■
By London pipers of tke 4th April it
appears Lord Howe was then at Tor bay j
The Oracle of that day fays, the Pruffi
answho aie auittingGerfaany, are destined
for Flande" to strengthen the allied pow
ers in that quarter, accofding to some late
arrangements made with the King of Prus
sia, and the reft of the powers at war
with France :—The Oracle adds—" I
believe it is pretty well understood, that
all these matters are pefeftly fettled be.
tween the Court of St. James's and that
of Berlin, t6 the fatisfadion of all patties."
" 0 rare John Bull!"
It does ndt appear that Admiral M'Brld:
was at Sea the firft of April.
The following bills pafled the House of
Representatives of the United States this
day, viz. A bill imposing a duty on li
cences for felling wines & foreign distilled
Ipirits A|bill authorizing thePrelident to
layj continue and revoke an Embargo ;—»
And the following to be engrafted, viz.
A bill anticipating payment of part of
the debt due from the United States to
the French Republic— and a bill impn
fing a duty on Goods and Estates fold at
Au&iom
LONDON, April 3.
The French fleet lately rendezvoufrd at
Brest, are now found to Have been 40 fail of
the line, as formerly stated by the captains
of two American veflels, but then discred
ited. They are, however, pretty accurate
ly accounted for now as follows ,
6 Sail gone to the Chefapeak*
6 Sail gone to Concale Bay and St. Ma
loes.
6 Sail put to fei the 23d of March, and
seen steering a W. S. W. course.
Numbered the 26th of March in Brest
Water and inner Harbour.
'■ I
40
* The Squadron <whhb ejeaped the vigi
lance of Earl Howe,
ANECDOTE.
A few evenings ago, a gentleman called
to fee his friend, who is a member of the
Democratic Society ; being told by a coun
try servant, that his matter was abroad, the
gentleman asked where he was gone, to
which the servant innocently replied, that he
was gone to the demon-Jrantic club ; where
the ( deuce; is that, said the gentlema* ? I
don't know, replied the servant, but I have
heard matter fay, that it was a kind of Ne-ut
Congrcfs to fettle the affairs of the Nation.
In the Canton of Berne in Swiflerland,
there is a peculiar institution, which in some
measure resembles the Democratic Societies
of this country. It is a miniature kind of
government, a mimicry of that of the Canton.
It consists of the fame Denomination of ma
gistrates, councils and afiemblies as the go
vernment itfelf js it has no authority by law,
but the magistrates and councils aflemble at
stated periods and deliberate on the Tame
questions as the government.—The offices
are filled by young men, who are thus trained
up to business ; the arrrfs of the Republic of
Berne are a Bear, those of this mock govern
ment, a Moukey, indicative of their mimicry.
It is recommended to our api/h institutions
to afTume the fame arms ; and it would not
be amiss if the Bear was afloeiated with the
Monkey.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Days.
Ship Pigou, Robertfon, London 42
Schr. Phoebe, Smith, Martinique 24
Dolphin, Watson, New-York 5
Sloop Abigail, Oran, Portsmouth 11
Mary, Webb, New-York 8
CLEARED.
Ship George Barclay, Collet, London
Hibernia, Irwin, St. Marks-
Schooner Industry, Burnet, Bermuda
About 30 fail of the fleet which left this
port the 26th inft, got fafe out on Tuesday
evening and Wednesday morning. Yefterdjy
evening 10 fail of outward bound veflels lay
at New-Cattle.
Capt. Robertfon left at London the (hip
Therela, of Philadelphia, to fail in 14 day*
after he left London, for this port. Captain
Robertfon failed on the Bth of April, and
brings 100 paflengers, chiefly mechanics.
I he (hip General Walhington, Captain
Geddts, from Dublin, is arrived in the De
laware, having on board 100 paflengers.
t The brig Lady Walterftorff, C'apt. Brook
from Cadiz, which lhe left the 4th of April,
is arrived in the Delaware—Also an other
brig, supposed to be the Sally, Capt. Odlin,
from Liverpool.
Captain Robertfon fays, that the court
°f Great-Britain is now well disposed
wards the United States of America.
Captain M'Pherfon spoke the brV
fially, Capt. Odlin from Liverpool, bound
to this port, out 63 days which he fn>»» '
•plied with a tew barrels of provisions.r.-iladelpWa, M*rcb ; t
VUST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHEW CAREY,
No. 113, Marbtpctt,
I E FIRST VOLUME A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography •
Geographical, Hi/hrical, ana
Commercial Grammar;
And urefeiit ft (te oi the I > ve l a '
nations of the world.
r
1. TUff figures, motions, and di (lance so
the planets, according to the Newtonian fyf
tera .md the latest obligations.
2. A general view of the earth, considered
as a planet; with several ufcfal geographical
definitions and problems. .
3 The grand div,finis of the globe into
land and water, continent* and islands.
4. The situation and extent ot empires,
kiiiEdurns, states, provinces and colpines.
5. Their clirtiates, air, foil, vegetables,
produftiom, metals, minerals, natural cun
ofitiei, leas, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
aud lakes. ' ,
6. Tie birds and beasts peculiar to each
country.
7. Observations on the changes that nave
been any where observed upon the face ot na
ture since the moll eaqy periods of hlftory.
8. The history and origin ot*nations; then
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
nuas, taxes, naval and military ilrength.
9 Tie genius, manners, cultoms, and ha
bits of the people.
10. Their language,learning,arts,fciences,
manufactures, and commerce. v
ri. Tie chief cities, ftrutfkjires, ruins, and
artificial curiosities
1 2. The longiliule, latitude, bearings, 'and
distances of principal places from Philadelphia.
To which are added,
1. A Geogr a pHic al Indlx, With the names
and places arranged.
2. A Table ot the Coins of all nations, and
thsir value ill dollars and cen's
3. A Chronologic a l TaJBW as. remarkable
events, from the creation to the prelent time.
By IVILLJAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Agronomical Part corrected by
D • RirXENHOUSE.
To wtiic'i h'gcve been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herschell,
and other em uent Astronomers. v
The FIRST AMERIC\N t-.DITION,
Corrcfted, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The Gift voiu.ne contains twenty-one M,ips
and C lifts, besides two Aitronomical Plate's,
viz - , u
x. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world
3. Europe. 4- Alia. J. Africa. 6. South
America- 7. C'»'»k'* 8. .Ciiun
trie* round the north Pole. 9. Sweden, Den
mi, ic, and Norway. :0. Seven United Pro
vinces. 11 Austria , French ai d Durch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. 13 Seat ol war
in France. r4- France divided into depai t,
lnents. 15- Switzerland. :6. Italy, Sicily,
and, Sardinia. 17. Spair and Po fugal.
18. Turkey in Europe a d Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 20 Weft-Indi 2«. Vermont. 22. Ar
milla'v fphe r . 23 ( opern car system.
With the' Tecond volume, which is now in
the press, will be given toe following Maps :
1. Rulfia in Europe and Alia.
2. Scotland.
3". England and Wales.
4. Poland.
China.
6. hindo:lan.
7 . United States.
g. Britilh America.
o. State of New-Hamplhire.
,0. State ol Maffachuletts.
11. State of Connecticut.
,2. State of Rhode Tfland.
j3, state oi New-York.
i 4. State of New Jersey.
ij. State of Pe infylvanfa.
16. State of Delaware.
,7. State of Maryland.
18- Stale of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
20. State of North-Carolina.
21. Tennessee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia.
TLRMS.
i. This'wo rk will be compriied in two vo
\ 1 limes- •
a. Subferibers pay for the present volume On
. delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (56 cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the inctceding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar eacl), or else, when fiiiifhed, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The faWcriptipn will be raised on the firft
day of June 1794, to fourteen dollars, ex
clusive of binding.
5. Should any copies remain for fate after the
completion of ihe work, they will be fold;
- J J.IL.M ... i .L. • " »■ ■
sixteen d; liars. and the price of binding.
6. The name* of the fubferibers will be pub
lished as patrons of American literature,
arts,and sciences.
It is wholly unneceflary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American leaders, that this edi
tion poffefles,over every imported edition of
any system of Geography extant- The addit
tion of maps of the fcveral state , procured a
a very great expense, and from bell ma
terials that are attainable, fpe-aks such fuli
convi&ion on this fubjeft, that it would be
difrefpeft to the reader's undei (landing to
suppose it requisite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. liiFno
fimiiar work have such maps btfeuever intro
duced.
The emen Jatioa* and additions wVich ar
made- in this work,are innumerable, and occui
ineverv page. The public are referred to
the preface for a flight flcetch of a few of
them.
The publisher takes the present Opportu
nity of returning fvs most sincere thanks to
those refp. ft iblc chai afters who have Tavored
him with documents for improving the maps
I nt'feveral of the' dates. He requstfts a conti
nuance of their kindness; and hopes that ftich
public spirited citizens, as are potfelied of si
milar ducnin .its, will favor him with thsir
assistance in perfecting his undertaking. ]
The extraordinary encouragement with
which fie has been favored, has excited
in his breast the warmest sentiments of grati
tude— fentint-Mits which time will not efface.
He pledges himfelf to the citizens ot the
United Spates, to spare neither pains nor qx
pens? to render the present edition of Guthrie s
Geography improved, deserving ot their pa
. waftf
tronage.
N O T I C E.
THE OFF ICE of tb< Secretary of State is
removed from H.RbStr&t. t<» ihe New Build
ings, ihe corner ot Sixth & Mulberry ftrects.
May 15 " V
s HOE S.
A quantity of stout "ell made Men's size
SHOES, adapted tor the Southern market,ioi
sale at
No. 7,6. North Third Jtre£t.
May 6 mw&f.ot
NANKEENS.
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
FOR SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April n. mw&ftf
E S'S EN C E
for the Tooth-Ache,,
Prepared and fold by Dr. Lee, Golden-
Square, London.
THE puWic it >/F ed o.ie of the
.fficacieus and fafe medicines, tluit ever ap
peared, for tliat most excruciating pain, the
T ioth-Ache —the numerous instances ot its
happy effetsts, in relieving the affii£ted> have
now brought it into u.iiverlal eiltmation ; it
not on!v relieves the tooth-ache, but is of the
□tmoft service in curing the SCURVY in the
that <. produced from un ound tee h, & wi 11
occalion a sweet breath; it Itkewile prevents
the teeth from decaying, and will be found
a general prelerverof the and Gums
Slid in Philadelphia only at
PoyntelFs Stationary Store, •
No. 21, Second Itreet.
April 24.
T'he Ground Plan
OF
City and Suburbs
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM ACTUAL SURTET.
IT is with pleasure that the has to
inform his and the public in gene
ral, that the plate .s now under the hands of
the engraver, and in greater forwardnfs than
was "sit firft contemplated. At the fame time
he begs leave to r< mind them, that fubfcrip
tton papers are ftiW open at mod of the noter*
book-stores in the city ; and that he hopes
from the whole of them to b: enabled to fom
*fucfr a relpettable catalogue of names, as wil
do a credit to the work, as well as afford a
reafonabie encouragement to the undertake-
Those who are <klirous of further informa.
tloii are requested to call on
Benjamin Davies,
No. 68, Market street.
April 14.
Freafury Department
Revenue-OJfize, May Ith, 1794.
NOTK.E is heieb given, thai Piopofals
will be ff-cived at the .Office of the Cornmif
lioner of the Revenue, for Ship Timber of
the following kind":, suitable for the building
of the Frigates authorized by Law. A par
ticular detail of the lizes and proportions will
be communicated, on application at the said
White Dai Timber and Plant. '
98 Pieces of various Dimeufions, include
ing Keel?, Floor and Riling Ttmbers,
&c. for a Vtiffel oi 14a or 150 feet
Keel.
27,000 Feet of Plank, Scantlinp, Wal
pieces, Bilge Stieak., .Clamps, &c. &e
200 Logs, for various uses.
Pitch Pine.
25,000 Feet of Plank lor Decks.
210 Beams, from 42 to 28 feet long, and
from iO by 12 to 15 by 18 inches thro'.
50,000 Locust Treenails, 18, 24 and 30
inches long.
5,000 Feet of Inch and half-inch Cedar
Boards.
30,000 Feet of Yellow Pine Boards and
Scantling.
Persons willing to Jiippty any part of tqe
above Timber for one Ship, or in proportion
lot the whole fix, will make their PropcfaU
accordingly. tth&3w
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills oj
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
several of wnich have appeared in circulation
'within a few days pajl; they are a good ge
\ neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be dijlinguijhed by the following
T marks.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared liavz the letter F.
For their Alphabetical Mark-
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper. „ .
The O. in ihe word Company is smaller
than theM. and other letters of that word,
to that a line extended from the top of the ,
to touch the top of the JVL would extend eon
fiderably above the range ot the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
The iand /in the word promise are not
parallel, the '/inclining much more lorward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the strokes
of all the Letters are stronger and the devi. e
in themargin particularly ismuch coarler and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
ot the counterfeits bear date in 1791 Where
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were iflueu in
ihat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared the letter
B tor their alphabetical mark.
They are printed 011 a paper nearly similar
to that of the Five Dollar Notes
above described ; the engraving is beUe. exe
ucted, and they approach ncaier to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word lu.cn
(l, in the body of the bill, are in number th
teen in the genuine b:lls, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the lame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as described a
bove, the 0 being less than them, and others
following. . , ~ ,
There is no stroke to the t mthe word North
whereas in the genuine hills the stroke is well
defined. .
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to tne
left hand at the bottom, do not come down tp
the line, but are so cut as an irregular
appearance to the word, the ifw and the;' go
ine below them.
The fignatute J Nixon, has the appear
ance ol being written with lamb-black aoii
oil, and differs Irom other inks used in
printing the bills and the cafhiei's fignatnre.
It is luppoled thele forgeries were committed
in some of the Southern State*, a* ail Ihe coun
terlcns that hove appealed, have come irom
thence, and two perloiis have been appiehend
ed in Virginia, on suspicion ol being ihe author
of them. _ _ 4_ _
The icward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will he paid to any Perlon or Perlon* wholhail
difcovei and prpfecute to convittion the ieveial
otFeuders ot the following descriptions or any
ot them, viz.
The pei Ton or pcrfons, who manufactured
the paper on which the Bills are primed.
The perion or petfons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
Lvei y per (on who has attcd as a principal in
any other wav, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing (lit said bills.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the United States have appeared
11 circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical maik is the let
ter B.
tutli&s 3W
They may be "diftinguiftied from the genu
ine by the following MARKS :
The papaj of the counterfeits is of a more
tend r texture aud gloffey furface than the
genuine, and there is 110 water mark in them.
Tlae letter C. in the word Caftiier, in the
true bills is strongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
stroke, evidently in an unfinifhed state. The
letter in the word demand, is badly formed
and the whole word ill done, and there is 110
comma at the end of rt, as there is in the
genuine bills.
The marginal device, is much daiker in
the falfe, tlmn in the owing to
the lhade strokes being coarser, much nearer
together, and consequently much more nu
merous. This difference strikes the eye at-lirft
ni&thtf
view,
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will be paid for apprehending, &
prosecuting to con vision the several above
described Offenders in refpe& to this, as to
the last described bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Picfident
' ot the Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bank ot North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
pc£i»ve Boards,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —alio a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow*, the
House is not exceeded bymany in the vicinity
of the city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
TO BE SOLD,
Beef, Pork, and Butter.
BEEF, prime and cargo ol good quality
PORK, prime and cargo of" »10.
BURLINGTON PORK
BUXTgR, in 6rkms
ALSO,
A CARGO OF
MAHOG A N r,
Landing at John Weft's Lumber Yam, near
Pool's Bridg', from,on board ilie Fair Ameri
can, fiom the Bav of Honduras, and
3000 bushels of Good Wheat,'
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 35, No. W.-.ter Street.
May 15. dta 5
Just Publifiied,
A one handsome volume, izmo. Price ss'
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 4*, Chefuul\
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and 011 the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL wa« adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
• Corrected and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
ProfelTor of Moral Pliilofophy, and the Law
<>i Nature, and of Ecclefiallical History ;
and Minister of the Engliih Church at U
trerht.
Temper ad communem utilitatem af
fep»Rdum. ; Cicero.
Thi Firji American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality, if right
ly understood, is the only bafts on which
universal justice. lac red order, and perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly feeured. The view of it exhibited in this
eflfay, at the fame time that it repreiTes the
infolenceof office, the tyranny of p .de, and
the outrages of opjireflfon ; confirm#, in the
riioft forcible manner, the neceflity of subor
dination, and the just demands of law ful au
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of ibciety, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftinftion,
draws more clo'ely every social tie, unites in
one harmonious and justly proportioned fyf
rem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent l ights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obli ation, and of a conl*
moil relation to the community, "
| March 18.
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of ReprefetitalrveJ,
Df CtMEK K 2 1 it, 1793.
WHEREAS the Commiflioucrs ol public
AccotwU. have reported, thai they can
oot proceed to the in- eftigatVoffot tnFTTcatury
Accounts, reipr&ing I'pecial Indents, without i
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation :—Therefore,
Refolded, That all holders of special Indents
be directed, and require d, on or before ihc firft
day of November tv xt, to deliver the special In
dents in their poffcflitm to one or other of the
CommifluMiers of the Trcafury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to report to tbeCom
miflioners on public accounts, on or befoie the
tenth day of November next, the amount hy
thetw refpc&ive'y received, and also 10 the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next,
and that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of Novcmbei next,- (hall be, and the fame ate
heieby barred.
Rejolved, That public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the fiiftdayof
November next. And i hat the Delegates ol this
State in the Congrcls of the United Spates, be re
queued to cdufe this resolution to be publtfticd
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provinon win be
made for the exptnees attending iuch publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent t© the
•Senate for their concurrence.
Bv order of the House,
JOHN £AN FORD DART, C.//. K.
In the SENATE,
December 2ift ■? i 793-
Rejolved, That this House do concur with the
House of Representatives in the foiego'.ng iclo
lutions.
Ordered, That the refolutiom be lent to the
House of Representatives.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewt^lov.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-ftrept, New-York.
THE Subfcribet intending to confine him felt
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b<gs leave to of
frr his fervicesto his friends and other*, in the
line o( a Stock Broker. Those who may plcafc
to favor him with their bufincfs, may drp<"d
upon having it Iran fatted with the urmoit fide
lily and dtfpatch.
Orders Iroin Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United State;, will be.
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&tht»
PHILADELPHIA;
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 3
mßcttf
tntf
South Fourth-Street.