EVENING AD V E R T I S E R.
' ' 1 ■ •'
[No. 148 of Vol. V.] Wednesday, June 4, 1794- [Whole No. 544.1
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY and FRENCH
BURR stones,
FOR SALE BY
Gurney and Smith.
May 14- '■
JAMAICA RUM,
LANDING at Hamilton's wharf, above
the Drawbridge, out of the fliip BacCbu*
Cot- Vanniman, fVnm Jamaica,
for sale bt
PETER BLIGHT.
May 16 t
It is Re quelle d,
THAT no person will lupply any articles
for the life of the New Theatre, without an
order in writing, figncd by ourfelv.es, or Sam
uel Anderfon,' for us.
WIGNELL & REINAGLE.
May 30- dtf.
All persons who have any de
-111 intls upon tiie New Theatre, are requeu
ed tn lend in their accounts to No. 204, in
Archftreitj near Eighth {beet, as Toon as
convenient.
wignell .& rein\gle.
May r- dt* - -
Congress of the United States,
In Senate, Tuefaay May 13th, 1794.
ORDERIiDi that Rufui Putnam, Manai
fah Cutler, Robert Oliver and Griffin
Green, do, upon third Monday of Decem
ber next, Ibew cau* to the Senate, why so
much of the grants of land to them the said
Rufns Putnam. ManafTah Cutler, Robert
Oliver and-Griffin Gieen, pnrfiiant to an Ast
entitled "An ast authorizing the grant and
conveyance of'certain )ar>(U to the Ohio Com
pany of airociatesj" fliaH not be declared
void, may interfere with and be fufficient
10 fatisfy the claims of the French settlers
at Gallinpo'lis.
Ordered, that the delivery of a copy of
the above order to Rutus Putnam, M&naffah
Cuticr„ ilobert Oliver, or Griffin Green, and
the publication of the fame, wt rn t
one of the Gazette-, printed in this City, lhall
be deemed fnfl»r«enl notice ihereof.
Extradl from the Journals of Senate;
Atteftj
SAM. A. OTIS, secretary. I
May 14. lin. i
FOR SJI.JS, ~~'
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Mai ket-Strect)
An Eflay. on Slavery,
Designed to exhibit in a new point of view
its effects on morals, indujlry, and the peace of'
Jocicty. Some fa£fcs and calculations are otjcred
to prove the labor ot jreemen to be much more
productive than that ot flavcs ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people, enjoy the fruits of.»their own
labor; and hence the n'ceffj» y conclu fioit, that
slavery is impolitic as wjll .'s unjujl.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February \Fi-
: ;
Guthrie's Geography improved.
THE fubferiprion lor this work on the ori
ginal terms, of twelve doHars and the bind
ing, wili be doled this<lay—and on Monday
the subscription will open at fourteen dollars,
exclusive of the price of binding.
The new maps added to this edition are
twenty one ; among which are those of New-
Hainpflvre, Maffarchufetts, Coune&icut,
Khode-Ifland, Vermont, New York, New
Jrrfey, Pennfylvariia, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, Kentucky, North Carolina, the
GenelLe Government, South Carolina, and
eorgia. These maps have never been given
in any former system of Geography, and, it
is hoped, would alone.be fufficient to entitle
this work to a preference to any other edition
of Guthrie.
N. B. The map of the United Slates,
which is compiling by Mr. S m.uel Lewis,from
the refpeftive state maps, will be far more
complete than any one yet publilhrd, and be
printed on two large Iheets of paper, nearly
the size of the laieMc. Murray's map.
Mdy |ji ( >
To-Morrow Morning,
Will be landed near Walnut street wliaif.from
on board the schooner Madison, Jas. Par
rock, master, trom MALAGA.
Sweet Mountain WINE,
in quartet casks
Soft (helled Almonds in lacks
Muscatel Raisins, in jars and
Bloom Do. in quarter barrels
A few 7 inch Ra's Cables
AND FOR SALT, BY
PETER KUHN.
June' 2 d6t
For Charter,
To the Well India I/la rids,
The new (loop
A B B Y,
Samuel Eames, Mailer.
SHE is a ftauuch good vdljf?!, in compleot
order, ai d wiH carry 900 barrels. For
terms apply to thecaptain on board ar Chel.
nut ftieet whar r , or to
- JOSEPH ANTHONY SON.
Jnne 2 , , v
For Sale or Charter,
Hurthpn 1000 barrels.
SHE is a iUu ch fact failing new vefl* Ijwel' l *
found, ani ready for .any voyage, either to [
Europe, or the Welt Indies. For terms ap
ply to
DEBLOIS tlf BRECK.
At their flore, between Walnut and Cheliiut;
street wharves.
May 23 d
Lady Walterftorff, i
Edward Broock, Master.
BURTHEN 1700 bairels, failsfjft, andii
in compieat order to take in a cargo immedi- '
ately.
Also for Sale or Charter,
Two New SHI PS ol the burthen of 2<K> tons :
each. For terms apply to
JOSEPH SIMS,
Who has for file,
Madeira and Sherry Wines,
of the |irft quality, Brandy, Red and Pale
Jesuits Bark, Btc. See.
June 2 d
' For Hamburgh,
Jujhn Vaksxhai*, Malt r.
TO lail with 3 1 convenient Ipeed, having,
three fourths of her cargo already engaged.
For freight or pa(T»ge apply to the master on.
bard, or
THOMAS ~d JOHN KETLAND.
June 3. d
Wanted for Europe,
AJJout and fajl failing
Of about 152 tons.
. ■ " AND
For Cape Nichola Mole,
A Good fajl failing Schooner or Brig about
ninety Tons,
B Y
LOUIS OSMONT,
No. 117, north SecondJlreet.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
A few Invoices of
Artificial Flowers, Feathers,
Fans, Handsome Looking GlafTes framed.
Window Glass of every fizf,
Received by the brig Amiable Sophia, Capt.
Loiuther, -via New Tori.
Spermaceti Candles, Claret and iiurgundy in
cales, Champaigni Wine, all to be fold by
Invoice,
Also jujl Received,
A few Barrels
Fresh Superfine Flour.
Do. Ship Bread, and a parcel of Prime Rice.
June 3. d.
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglhcads and in cafea of 50 bottles each.
also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter calks, 1
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 111., South Front lUeet. 1
|an. 2, 1794- dtf
HORSES.
Anthony Wechter, living in Third street
near Callowhill street, at the sign of the
Pennsylvania Arms No. 214,
HAS FOR SALE,
One Pair
Bright Bay Horses,
6 years old, upwards of 15 hands high—
and one pair Chefnut Brown with blazes, 4
years old, about 15 hands high. The terms
will.be made known, by applying to Mr.
Wechter. • jt
'
A PLAIN COOK.
WAN TED a middle aged fn»>»ie Woman,
wh<» uivleritandsp'ain Cooking; to iuch a one
the bzft wages will so given,
Appiy t toe fruiter.
Ma> 31 sot
WANTED,
A Journeyman Printer,
Enquue at No. 8, north Fifth ftreer,
May 31 Jt
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Houses or PuMic
Offices,
Two brick 3 story Houses,
.HAV L N.G 6 rotvpja in eag&, wuh fire places
'jefide gar.rets, fnuate 00 the south westerly fide
of bock fticct, between Pear and Walnut
Greets. Ei.qu -eof
BENJAMIN m MORRIS.
April 17. tutn&stl
Just Published,
By Be.kjam.ih J qua son, and fold at his
Bookjiore, No. 147, Market Jlreet,
The Life of Dr. Franklin,
with a itrvkiHg likeuefs, executed in a malter
ly 111 nner by Taackara and Vallance, pricfe
nve fhiikngs.
T ie Ready Reckoner, or Trader's Sure
Guide, 3/9
The Young Book keeper's Aflifla t, 6/3
The Christian, a poem, by Ciiarles Craw
ford, 2/4
Elop'i F.abJes, 4JS
Swan's.Britllh ArchitccV, 37/6
Pa ne's ditto 30/
Town and Country Builder's Afliftant 21/6
In the press, and will be publi/hed in a few
days, and fold as aboue,
Reflections and Maxims, by
William Penn, with his advice to his chil
,d'eo, 4/8.
6 niu. 2, 1794. m&wim
JNlorris Academy.
THIS inftituiion is now open for tue recep
tion of (tn-lents under tfie imin.-diate t are. of
Mr. Caleb Ruflell, whose abilities as an in
ftruftor, anif attachment to the business have
long been known and approved. He has un
der kiin the bell affiilants in the different
branches—The fcliolars arc taught the Ell
- French, Latin', and languages,
Public-Speaking, Writing, Arithmetic, Geo
graphy, Astronomy, and the various branch
esof the Mathematics. The healthy
tion of this .place is fueh as to recommend it
to those, who wilh to have their children in
the country. Boarding, washing, mendntg,
&c. will be provided ill good families, and
the morals of the scholars carefully attended
to.
The price including tuition, firewood, &c.
eexclufive of the French language) will not
xceed thirty pounds proclamation money per
annum) an addition of three dollars per quar
ter will be made to such scholars who are
teught the French language. The Directors
ai edetermined to pay such attention to tlii<s
institution, a", will render it refpeflable and
ufeful.
Gabriel H. ford, *>
TIMOTHY IOHNS, jun. C Direft's.
NATHAN FORD, ,3
Morriftown, May 15, 1794
diw.—warn.
The Ground Plan
OF THE
City and Suburbs
OF
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM ACTUAL iURI'EY.
IT is with pleasure that the publisher has to
inform his fubferibers and the public in gene
ral, that the plate is now under the hands of.
the engraver, and'in greater forwardnfs than
was at firft contemplated. At the fame time
he begs leave to remind them, thrt fubferip
rion papers are still open at most of the noted
book-stores in the city ; and that he hopes
from the whole of them to be enabled to form
such a refpeftable catalogue of names, as will
do a credit td the work, as well as aiFord a
reasonable encouragement to the undertake-!
Thole who are ddirous of further in/orma.
tion are requefied to call 011
Benjamin Davies,
No- 68, Market street.
April"* 14- m&thtf
NANKEENS.
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
FOR SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April 11. ■ mw&ftf
I \ • ' ' ' ■—■—i^—»
UNITED STATES.
NEW-YORK, May 47.
We think it a duty at all times to ftatd
falls ; and warn the public of dangers.'
We have repeatedly noticed In speculation
the attempts of certain violent men and
popular aliociations to dictate, dire {I, or
in some measure, to influence the proceed
ings of government. We rnuft now relate
afa 3 that sets the danger of lUch attempts
in a strong point of view. k
Soon after it was known that the Alge-'
rines had made prisoners of a number of
our American seamen, government took
the moil effectual tneafures, and the most
liberal means were provided, to redeem
those unfortunate men. These measures
have been defeated by the m'fjudged and
ill-timed benevolences of our own citizens,
who, by various means, have been endea
voring to raise money for the fame purpose ♦
by voluntary contributions. For this fact,
however fmgular, we have unquji'ionalL
authority. The truth is, the of Al
giers would demand the highest sum for
the ransom of the captives, which he could
extort from government: But learning
that money was raising by private dona
tions, he has hitherto held their redemp
tion at fueh an unconscionable price, that
no agreement can be concluded with him.
To avoid this very inconvenience go
vernment kepi the sum to be offered, pri
vate; this led people to suppose r.o mea
sures had been taken to redeem the
wretched captives; and their humanity
called for benevolent aids.
It is thus the mipguidtd zeal of some,
and the sinister views of others, are per
petually embarraffmg or wholly thwart
ing the operations of government. The
mifchiefg arising from this constant popu
lar interference with the legiflattve and
executive powers of government, are in
numerable. People choose representa
tives to meet and consult on public affairs,
and then, itrftead of confiding in their re
presentatives who have the bejl means of
information, they themselves in private
clubs, tranlient associations, formed and
acfting on partial or inaccurate statements
of fadts, undertake to direst and controul
the measures of government. In short,
they eledt men to do business, and then
do it themselves, without the means of
knowing whether their steps are right or
wrong.
This of government, this in
cessant clamor about men and measures ;
this want of confidence in public officers ;
this haftv popular zeal, inflamed by pri
vate passions and sudden impreflions;
these efforts to diforgam'ze government,
and govern by private clubs bode mifchief
and calamity to America. If the people
will have no confidence in our executive ;
if he is not permitted to manage negocia
tions entrusted to him by the constitution
and laws of the United States; we mtiy
as well dilfolve the government at onte,
and " every man to his tent, O Israel."
Baffled in his steady pursuit of publit hap
piness and prosperity, by the intrigues
and cabals'of private clubs, under foreign
influence, probably foreign money, our
good President will perhaps grow weary
of exertiftns that are useless, and will Re
tire in disgust.
It is often necessary to keep negotiati
ons between itates, private : It was so in
the cafe here mentioned. It was for the
iiitereft.of America that the people (hotild
not know what measures were taking,
until the business was doled. And if the
Americans could have reft rained their
intemperate zeal, and let government'con
duct the business, our brethren in Al
giers might probably have been, by fhis
time, retlored to their country. But'the
benevolent intentions of government and
of all good citizens are defeated, by the
too h.ijly charity of individuals. There is
no doubt that great part of the Contribu.
tors-to the} fund for the relief of the cap.
tives, have the heft intensions ; but there
£ »cr
/
Is iijtle doubt that hidhlJuah originally in
tended, ,fcy thtfe private aid 9, to thuait
aiid perplex government. It is thus tlic
•will of the gvc.it body of freeman in Amer
ica is fubjett to the control of influence of
little parties and clubs. In the fame man
ner, private ehibs are endeavoring to Slur
ry Congrcls to declare war at once against
1 Great Britain, without taking any prt;li
minarv ftt'ps, required by the laws and «f
---ages of nations; We are happy howevir
to tin;) the people in the interior northern
- states, with great unanimity, reprobate all
clubs fin tired to influence public meafnres,
and consider them as unoonftitutiunal and
dangerous/
Front the General Advertiser.
FROM A CORRESPONDENT.
We have lately seen an attempt, in the
Gazette of the United States, to (belter
the appointmeut of Mr. Jay, chief justice
of the United States, to the office of en
» vgy to the court of Great Britain from
tlie censure to which it was justly exposed,
by an attack upon that of Mr. Monroe
laleje.ijitffij; from Virginia, as minister to
tie French Republic, which-jjaerits a fhprt
v comment. ' V
it is I'carcely neceflary to obferrc, that
if the cases were parallel they must be ei
ther both oonftitutional or otherwise ; if
they were not, that neither can be juitified
or crimrnateA by the other } that they
flarfd respectively upon their own merits
by whichalone tiiev must be tested. These
portions are too clear to admit of any
doubt, in the n.ind of a discerning public.
Nor can there be any divcrfity of sen
timent with rejpedt to the principles by
which they mult be teited. That the
three departments of government, the ex
. ecutive, legislative aed judicial, Ihould be
kept Teparate, dill:neb and independent of
each other, is a political truth too well
eftablilhed at the present day, to be deni
ed by a'iy one. It is well known, that
the national and ail the state governments
are founded on this principle. Indeed in
moil of them great ingenuity has been
displayed in an effort to complete this
separation and perfect the independence of
each on the other ; and it is universally
admitted that the government in which
tnis efFort has been molt fnccefeful has at
tained the nearelt to perfection.
That Mr. Jay was of this opinion up
on a former occasion, will appear by the
following extract from the memorial orre
monftrance of the circuit judges of the
United States at New-York, to congress,
and which was signed by himfelf.
" That by the conflitution of the U
fiited States the government thereof is
divided into three diftinft and independ
ent branches and that it is die duty of
each toabftain from ami oppose incroach
ments on either.
That neither the legjjlature nor the ex
ecutive branches can conltitutionally assign
so the judicial any duties but such as are
properly judicial and to be performed in a
judicial manner."
Thus we find, when it was fought, by
the legifiature, to charge the judiciary |
with the fetdement uE the claims of the
invalid soldiers, the chief justice was a
kiiTttcd for the independenee of that de
partment ; but when invited to fill an ex
ecutive office whicfi tended to his own ad
vancement in honor and emolument, and
especially one which furnifhed an opportu
nity of visiting the associates of the fac
tion in England, all apprehension of the
kind, ast jealotify refpefting the union of
the departments vani.'hed.
Will it be contested, that the independ
ence of the Judges may not be more fa
tally undermined and destroyed by execu
tive influence, provided it may be aflailed
i in that line, than the imposition of new
duties by the legislature ? And what influ
-1 ence is more powerful in its effedt on the
human heart, than the right of dispensing
011 those who are must accommodating and -
obfeqtiious, additional offices of honor and
profit? And is it not to be presumed, if
the door to executive offices, (hould like
wile be opened to the Judges, that inttead
of forming a barrier or ltrong wall of pro
tection in favor of the people, against ex
cutivc encroachments, they would soon
become the mere fycophantsof courtsand
tools of power ?
It will be perceived that the only ob
jection to eithei appointment, confilts in
the pofltffion and exercise of two offices,
' each in a separate department of the go
vernment, by the fame person and at the
fame time : And it is admitted that the
obje&iftn applies with equal, force, whe
ther they be legiffative arid executive, or
judicial and executive, for in both cases,
two departments of the government are
blended together, ar*i the independence
arid check contemplated by the conftituti
or. destroyed. Had Mr. Jay religned the
office of Judge, when he accepted that of
Envoy Extraordinary, there would have
been no objetSiorv in that refpeft, to his
appointment; for it never was contended
that a periou holding an office in any
branch of the government, might not be
appointed from that to one in any other
department. By holding both offices,
therefore, Mn jay has justly exposed
himfelf to the censure which has been bes
towed upon a conduct so improper. But so
soon as the latter appointment was confer
red on Mr. Monroe, it is well known that
he immediately religned the other, and
withdrew from the Senate ; the objecti
ons then which have been urged with such
peculiar force againftthe former, are whol
ly inapplicable to the latter.
If the appointment of Mr. Jay was con
stitutional being understood at the
time, and verified by the event, that he
intended to hold both offices J it will be dif
ficult to (hew any impropriety in Mr.
Monroe's eonduft in oppofrng it. He
was at the time a Senator, and charged
by his oath, to preserve the conltitution
inviolate. If he deemed this a violation,
it was his duty to oppose it, and he
would have been unworthy the trust repo
sed in him by his country, if he had
shrunk from it.
Whether it was proper for Mr. Mon
roe to accept the appointment which was
conferred on him by the President and
Senate, the public will determine. If
it suited his convenience to serve his coun
try in that line, was desired by many at
home, and there was reason to believe it
would be acceptable to the French repub
lic, why Ihould he not accept it ? Can any
good reason be affigncd, why he should
flight the favorable disposition of his coun
try, thus honorably expressed, and at a
very interesting crilis of public affairs ?—
Can it be urged that he solicited the ap
pointment or courted it, by any unmanly
or degrading accommodation, in his pub
lic conduit ? Will a firm and decided op
polition to such nominations as he thought
unconstitutional and otherwise improper,
be deemed such, for these are the only!
objedtions which have been alledged a
gainst him \
It is generally understood, that the
trust was offered to Mr. Monroe, by the
Pi efident, and that the firft and only a
gency he had in the business was, in de
tei mining that he would not decline it; a
circumstance which reflects honor on the
person who conferred, as well as on him
who accepted the appointment.
Every candid reader will now decide
how far the two cases which have been
brought into view are parallel. In one
cafe Mr. Jay, Chief Juttice of the United
States, being appointed to an executive
office, has accepted the fame without re
lifiquifhing his judicial office, in violation
of the principles of the constitution
which he has taken an oath to support,
in neglcft ot his duties as a judge which
he has sworn faithfully to discharge, and
in fubverlion of that independence on the
executive department which, on another
occasion, he himfelf had so ftrenuouflv
a Her ted.
In the other cafe, Mr. Monroe, a Se
nator of the United States having accept
ed an executive appointment, immediately
rehnquiihed his feat in the Senate, from
a refpeft to the principles of the constitu
tion which he had taken an oath to sup
port ; in conformity to the doctrines he
had before maintained with refpeft to the
incompatibility of offices in different de
partments, and without an attempt, or
wish, to retain a place, the duties of
which he w as rendered unable to discharge
by his undertaking those of another.
CONGRESS.
House of Reprcfentatives.
~A r n< 7 for granting the sum of two
thousand dollars, to the widow of Robert
Fortyth, late Marshal of the diftria of Geor
gia, was brought in the j 4 th ult. and yester
day was pafi-ed, and sent up to the Senate.
.. received some days before from
the President of the United States, commu
nicating the request of the Minister of France
tor an advance of money, on account of the
debt due to France, was taken into consider
ation and referred to a committee of the
whole.—A bill has since been passed purfu-
Mt J° request, ancl sent to the Senate.
Mr. M'Dowell laid on the table a motion
t.
directing the Secretary of the Treafurv tc
report at tlte next fefficn a state of the ba
lances due to the United State?, from indivi
duals, prior and subsequent to the phrfent
government; tt'ith Jtn account Of the mea
sures taken to recover the fame, &c. this mo
tion was taken up on Monday, and after
some discussion was negatived, 39 to 38.
A bill received from the Senate entitled an
acl in addition to the ail for the puni(hment
of certain crimes against the United States,
was also taken into consideration on Mon
day ; the firft feflion of the bill is in the
following word : " If any person (hall, with
in the territory or jurifdiclion of the United
States, accept or take a jcommiffion to Jerve
a foreign prince or state, in was, by land or
sea, the person so offending (hall be deemed
guilty of a high misdemeanour, and (hall be
fined not less than dollars nor
snore than dollars; and (hall be
imprisoned not exceeding nor less
than
This section on motion of Mr. Nicholas,
was after some debate, struck out in com
mittee of the whole, 39 to 38 —but was
restored by the House after an amendment'
which provides that nofuch cornrhiffon (hall
be cxercized
Mr. Nicholas thfen moved to strike out
a part of the second fe&ion, which punishes
a man for cJniifting in foreign service, or for
going out of the limits of the United States,
to enlist in foreign service ; and he proposed
an amendment instead of it.
This amendment was negatived—as was
a motion to expunge the foiirth™fedlion.
It was next moved to ftrik'e out the seventh
feiflion which stood as follows:
" And be it further enacfted, that it (hall
not be lawful to fell, within the United States,
any vessel or goods captured from a prince
or state, or from the fubjecls or citizens of a
prince or state, with whom the United States
are at peace, which vessel or goods (hall have
bten captured by any other foreign prince
or state, or by the fubjetfls or citizens of such
prince Or state ; unless such vessel and goods
shall have been firft carried into a port or
place within the territory of the prince Or
state to which the captors belong, but such
vessel and goods (hall be carried (tat ps, the
United States,by those whofhall brortght
them in. And the sale of any veflel or goods
prohibited as aforefaid, (hall be utterly void."
Some debate took place on this motion,
the clause was at length expunged, 46 to 37
—the bill was passed as amended.
The following remarks on the last mo
tion were offered by Mr. Goodhut.
Mr. Goodhue observed, that the fubjea
lay within a very narrow compass. If by
our treaty with France they had a right to
fell their prizes in our ports, there was no
thing more to be said. If they had no such
right by trealy, then it was to be considered
how far giving them this right would be a
violation of our present neutrality. As to the
treaty, Mr. Jefferfon our late Secretary of
State, in his correspondence communicated
to us the present session, had explicitly said
that no such claitn could be made by France,
by virtue of our treaty with them, to such a
measure; and indeed if we look into the
treaty which France made with Great Bri
tain in 1786,lfev»ral years after th.e one they
had formed with us, we (hall have all doubts
removed on the true conftruflioi} which
ought to be had upon the article mutually
existing between us, by virtue of which such
a right is pretended ; for in the treaty they
made with Great Britain, they expressly fli
pulated that in cafe either party (hould be at
war with any other nation, no prizes ox' the
one being so at war (hall be fold in (he ports
of the other; consequently had it happened
we had been at war with Great Britain and
France had remained in peace, we could not
by the article in our treaty with them, have
had such an indulgence. Indeed, the gen
tleman from Virginia, Mr. Madison, seems
to give up the right, and takes it up on the
ground of expediency, and not having 3
tendency to violate our neutrality. Mr. Jef
ferfon has also in his correspondence laid
down this principle, that if a neutral nation
granted a favor to one belligerent power
which (he withheld from the other, it was
so far a violation of neutrality—this princi
ple was incontrovertible.
Mr. Madison had said we had not heard
that the Briti(h government had complained
on this score to our minister at London, but
tho' that was true, it was nevertheless true
that their minister here had made complaint
of it to us, and Mr. Goodhue was of opinion
that in fettling our accounts with Great Bri
tain for the spoliations they have committed
on our commerce, they would as a
charge against us the prizes made of their
vessels, which we had permitted the sale of
in our ports, he therefore hoped the clause
would not be struck out agreeably to the
motion for that purpose. Mr. Goodhue fur
ther observed, that it had given him much
pain to have seen so many amendments pro
posed in the progress of this bill, to deprive
the executive and judicial powers of this go
vernment from being vested with that autho
rity, so essentially necessary to reilrain the
licentious from committing such a<sis, as un
questionably hazarded the tranquility of our
country.
IN SENATE,
Wednesday, May 2ill, 1794.
( Concluded.)
The Vice-Pre (ident signed the enrolled
0 J bUI, entitled, «An ast prohibiting f or a -
£ I limited time the Exportation of arms 2nd
j ammunition, and encouraging the impor
tation of the lame," and it was delivered
to the committee to be laid before the
President of the United States for his .
I approbation.
n The bill sent from the House of Repre.
1 I fentatives for concurrence, entitled, " An
j' a & to compensate Arther St. Clair," was
e " read the firft time.
- Ordered, That this bill pass to the fc.
d j cond reading,
e j The bill sent from the House of Re.
r I prefentativc3 for concurrence, entitle.!,
I " An ast to authorize the settlement of
r account of Lewis Dubois for his fcr
e I vices in the ■ late army of the United
s j States," was read the firlt time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the fe.
, j cond reading.
- I The bill sent from the House of Re
' I pi'efentatives for concurrence, entitled,
I I " An ast to alter the time for the next
I annual meeting of Congress," was read
• the firil time.
i Ordered, That this bill pass to the fe.
■ I cond reading.
The Resolution sent from the Koufe
I of Representatives for concurrence, that
I Congress adjourn on the third day of June
next, was read.
I Ordered, I hat this resolution lie on
the table.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
Thursday, May 22d,
I Mr. Vining reported fiom the com
. j mittee on enrolled bills, that they did ycf.
1 terday, lay before the President <>f the U
nited States, the bill, entitled, " An ast
j prohibiting for a limited time the expor-
I tation of arms and ammunition, and en
couraging the importation of the fame."
I On motion,
j Ordered, That Mr. Ellfworth, Mr.
| Livermore and Mr. Monroe, be a commit
tee to report a bill to authorize a fettle-
I ment of the accounts of Loan-Officers
I for Clerk hire and ftatiqnary.
I On motion,
I Ordered, That the fame committee be
I inftrufted to -bring in a bill to provide for
j mitigating or remitting fines, penalties
j and _ forfeitures incurred urn'er revenue
j laws in cases not now provided for.
I That the fame committee be inftrufted
I to bring in a bill, further to extend the
j time for receiving on loan, the domestic
J debt of the United States ; and
I That the fame committee be alio in- 1
I flrufted to bring in a bill, to continue in
I force " The ast for the relief of per-
I sons impriforied for debt."
J On motion,
I Ordered, That the committee 011 the
J petition of George Taylor and others, be
I enjoined to report.
j On motion,
I Ordered, That the committee on the
I mefiage of the President of the United
j States of the 19th of February iaft, res-
I pefting the Judiciary be enjoined to re-
I port.
I The bill, sent from the House of Re-
I pi'efentatives for concurrence, entitled,
I "An ast to compensate Arthur St. Clair,"
I was read the second time.
Ordered, Thrt this bill be referred to
Mr. Brown, Mr. Glinn and Mr. Vining
to consider and report thereon to the Se- j
I nate.
The bill, sent from the House of Re-
I prefentatives for concurrence, entitled, j
I " An ast to authorize the settlement of
I the account of Lewis Dubois for his fcr
vicesin the late army of the United States,"
I was read the second time.
Ordered, That this bill be referred to
the committee last appointed to consider
and report thereon to the Senate.
j The Senate prooecded to consider the
amendments reported by the committee,
to the bill, entitled, " An ast laying ad
ditional duties on goods, wares and mer-
I chandize imported into the United States, \
and on the tonnage of (hips or vefiels," ;
which were adopted, and the bill amend
i cd accordingly. f
Ordered, That this bill pass to the i'
I third reading.
I I y
A mefiage from the President of the ?
United by Mr. Dandrige his Secretary : p
" Mr. Piefident—The President of the
United States hath this day approved and A|
I signed, " An ast prohibiting for a limit
-1 ed time the exportation of arms and am-
I munition, and encouraging the importa-
I tiornof the fame." x j,
I Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
I the House of Representatives therewith.
I The Vice-Preudent laid before the Se- . *
I•vxte n feprtrt of the Secretary for the De
partment of War on twenty-three additi
onal claims for compilation as invalid
pensioners, which were read.
Ordered, That the report lie for consi
deration.
I he bill for extending the benefit of a
drawback and terrns of credit in ccrtain
cases, and for other purposes, was read ;r
second time, and being amended ;
Ordered, That this bill be engtofled
fora third reading.
The biil lent from the House of Repre
fi*ntatives for concurrence, entitled, "An
ast to alter thd time tor the next annual
meeting df Congress," was lead the fe
cund time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the
third residing.
The Senate resumed the confederation
of the refohition sent from the House of
Representatives for concurrence, that Con
gress adjourn on the third day of June
next —and
Resolved, That they do concur therein.
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the House of Representatives with the
concurrence of the Senate in this refohi
tion.
The Senate resumed the consideration
of the refohition, sent from the House of
Rejfrefentative for concurrence,' "''forfur
nifhing the executives of the several Hates
with a copy of the book, marked A', de
posited in the Treaftiry Department by
tlie commifiionrrs vho kttled the accounts
between the individual Hates and the U
iiited States.
On motion, .
It was agreed to amend the resolution,
by inserting " at their own expense"
after the words, "feixralJlates".
On motion to concur in the resolution
?s amended.
It paiTed in the negative—Yeas 5 —
Navs 15.
The yeas and nays being required by
one-fifth of the Senators present,
Those who voted in the affirmative, are,
Messrs. Hawkins, Martin, Monroe, Rofs
and Vmingt
Those who voted in the negative, are,
Mefiis. Bradford, Brown, Cabot, Ellf
wor'th, Foster, Frelinghttyfen,Gunn, Hen
ry, Jackson, Izard, Livermo.e, Morris,
Potts, Rohinfon, and kutlv ifuid.
Ordered, 'I hat the Sec 'tary acquaint
the House of Representatives that the Se
nate do not concur in this resolution.
1 The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
* marrow morning. '
PHILADELPHIA,
JUNE 4.
There were in the Port of Philadelphia on
the 25 th May.
BHgs
c 7
riIOWS
Schooners
Sloops 4 .
244
\ alue of goods, wares and merchandize,
exported from each i>ate, from the lit Oct.
179*2, to the sotb September 1793.
ssxt' ~
3 tt%i
New-Jerfev, 11' ill
ssr
Maryland, so I '***
Virginia, 3 ' 6 0?'" 9
North-Caroiina, "'?6t'-07
South-Carolina, io-'k™
Ccorgia, 3.19J.874
501,383
Dollars 16,011,788
fcufha, I>,aCeS ° f Deain3tkm -
Sweden, s>7<>9
Penmar*, p' 4l ?
Holland, 870, jo&
Oreat-Briuin, i'ltVi
Imperial Ports, ' 59
Hans-Towns, »»°*3.34>
France, 79M37 1
Spain, ' 7'°5°»498
Portugal, 2,2,7,950
Italian Port,, 997,J90 <
Morocco 220,688 (
East.-Indies, 2, °9 4 1
Africa, 253,131 ;
Weft-Indies, 2 5 x »343 t
jiw.cJte&nfe, 3, S :
_ Ifu I
Dollars 26,01 k 7 83 t.
> J 0
; By this Day's Mail.
i
NEW-YORK, June 3.
• „ eltei day arrived here the (hip James,
Capt. Howard, after a pafiage of a 7 davs
t from Falmouth.
, About 50 paflengers came in the James?,-
~ 16 of whom are cabin paflengfr , and who
speak highly of the politeness and attenti
| on of Capt. Howard.
Mrs. Romayne, lady of Dr. Romayne,
of this city, came pafleqger in the James.
, Dr. Priestley, with about too other
[ paflengers, are on board the Sanfom,
. which may be hourly expected.
By a paiTenger in the James, we are
. j informed, that the James left the downs
the 17th April, and passed through Lord
, Hood's fleet, which was returning from
~ the Mediteranean, without having effected
the reduction of Corsica ; that the Kino
. of Prailia has aftuallv seceded from the
confederacy against France, & assigned his
reasons for this conduct, that Lord Moi
ra's body of troops is ordered to the con
tinent, and that Volunteer companies are
enhUing in England for the defence of the
country.
Cj* London papers as late as the 13th of
April, ■we have received by the James
from luhich -we have made thfollowinv
fJeP.ion: 6
Paris April 4.
The following pei-fons are now before the
Kevolutionary Tr.bunal, viz.
Pierre Francois FabreD'Eglantine. Repre
lentative of the people. Joleph Delaunay de
puty. Francois Chabot deputy. Benoit Ca
mil.e Dtflnoulms, deputy. Jean Francois La
01 j' ° e P ut y* Pierre » hilipeaux, deputy.
Uaude Bazire, Marie Jean Herauit Sechelles,
deputy. George Jaques Danton, aged 54
years, born at Areis fur L'Aube, advocate
betore the revolution, since occupying feve
?'arcSi particularly that of deputy. Rene
D Efpagne, an Abbe. Andre Marie Gtif
mann,-Emanuel Frey, a Banker. Sigifmund
brothers in-law to Chabot. Jean
Frederic Dietrichfen. J Mafquet, dealer in
cattle, was condemned.
Jil the fitting of the Jacobins yesterday, an
account was given of General Pechegru hav
ing attacked and beat the enemy. The French
have Several columns in the sorest of MormaL,
where thev are railing redoubts.
A letter was read trom citizen Freflinet,
dated re pignan, which gave an account of
the advantageous position of the army of the
Eaitern Pyrcnnees, and its march in three
columns to attack the enemy.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Tuefdav April 1.
Suppression of the Executive Council, and
. of the fix Ministers and their Assistants.
Carnot, in the name of the Committee of
Public Welfare, having demonstrated all the
incompatibility of an Executive Council with
a Republican Government, even the danger
which results from it to Liberty, propoiedv
the ftipprefiion of all theMinifters. " The
real friend of the people," said Carnot,
" is he who fuffers himfelf to be long looked
after beiore he accepts any public functions,,
who Withdraws from them as Toon as possible,
and poorer than when he alTiuned them, and
who returns among his equals to lead a quiet
irreproachable life."
Carnot terminated by proposing the fol
lowing Decree, which Was adopted with the
loudefl applause.
Art. 1. Ihe Ndtional Convention decrees,'
that the Provisory Executive Council is fup
prcfTed ; as alio the fix Minifies and their
Afiiftants who compose it.
Art. 1. Its Functions fliall entirely cea'fe
011' the 20th of April.
Art. 3. It fhalf be replaced by the follow
ing Twelve Commiflions, namely: 1. Of
Administration, Police, and Tribunals ; 2. of
Publi" Inftrijtftiort ; 3. of Agriculture, Arts
aftd Manufactures ; 4. of Commerce and
I Supplies;. 5. of Public Works; 6. of Pub
lic Relief; 7. of Transports, Poib and Port
Offices; 8. of Finance; 9. of the Organ
ization of the Movements of the Armies by
Land.; 10. of the Marine and the Colonies;
11. of Arms and Gunpowder; 12. of Ex
ternal Concerns.
_ Art. 4. All those Commifiioners {hall
give daily an account of their operations
to the committee of public welfare, be
fore which they {hall lay the Denunci
ation of abuses, and their Plans for uleful
Reforms. '
Art. 5. 1 hose commissions {hall be
wholly responsible for their operations.
April 4.
The Revolutionary Tribunal being fully 1
engaged with the grand trial of Danton,— 1
Chabot and Co. lias been obliged to respite
several individuals of less note." The prisons
are daily more and more crouded, and con- ]
tain at this time, according to the report of
the bulletin, 6881 victims. Among these
are M. de Maupeu, the son of the ci-devant '
Chancellor, of State ; and Guillemanf, AI- '
lain, Damon, and Geneft, all members of 1
the Revolutionary Committee of the Section 1
Df Marat, ♦ <
LJifirntag Ptfl.j
London, April 10.
} 'I'f important declaration of ths
3 » p' T ,° '' P'rtliiia in this day's Morning
rs ,° ' , e kcefllon of that monarch from
t >e continental alliance, is ho longer doubt
s»" ciii chtm the praise of being tlie
0 hrlt to announce this important ihtelli
j- gence to the public, and leave the Times,
an the fuborairiate Ministerial papers,
e, they have obtained, inrepea
s" Yis* ° ontradi « in S OUr aflertions On this
, r j.bj. ct. The fame source of intelligence,
V llas B ive " us th 's priority of intelli
gence, enables us now to present to the
c country, the declaration of the Pralfian
|g Monarch, and ws leave to the minilterial
d vvr| teib, the mortifying talk of apologizing
n l ° an '"-"fed public for the delusion which
d . X e pradifed, and continue to prac
,r tlc e on their credulity.
a —
is The Declaration of ibe King of PruJJiajothe
•_ Gel man Empire, on his fecejjion from the,
- i } '\ e f L '"t Continental Confederacy, concludes
thus :
e 0 Afterws, at is pad, every hope of the
Subiifience being acceded to, being no*
vamfhed, « His Majesty does n6w re
s ''ounce the farne, and also every Refo
" lution of the Empire and of the Cir
cles relative thereto. His Majesty has,
therefore, taken the Resolution no lon
ger tft grant his Protection to the Ger
e << raa " m P' re: —But, to order his Ar
" tw enty thousand Aux
" ilnrids, according to different treaties)
" nillaiitly to return to his own domin
" H!ns."
At the fame time that his Majesty finds
hitafelf compelled to withdraw a portion
of his Troops from the defence of those
States, for which they have already com
bated with so much glory, he expresses
the mod earned wiihes, that those con
fluences he has above alluded to may not
take place, bijt that the exertions of his
Imperial Majesty, and of the Empire,
may eventually insure to both a full indem
nity> and a general and honorable Peace.
To his Mijefty remain the just confuta
tion, and permanent glory of haying on
his part made such facrilices to the de
fence and fafety of the Emperor in the
present awful crisis, as certainly few
States in Europe, or Members of the
Germanic Body, could, without much
nefitation, have resolved upon.
Berlin, March 13,' 1794.
April 12.
It was last: night reported, that an ac
count had been received by a bye boat
from Oltend, thnt Danton and his confe
derates had been executed. This seems
very probable, as we know they were
upon their trial on the 3d and 4th inft.
Yesterday morning Mr. Shaw and Mr.
Wiliiil, king's meflengers, arrived with dis
patches, one from Vienna, the other from
the-Duke of York's head quarters at St. A
mand. Nothing of any cohfequence had oc
curred;. A Hanoverian out-poft had been
surprised, but a reinforcement coming up,
the enemy had been obliged to retire with loss
■ An important movement was e*pe<Jted to
be made in a few days.
The Emperor was expected to arrive at
£>ru(ftls on tfte 9th. The greatest prepara
tions were making to receive him with eve
ry mark of respect and affe&ion on the part
of the people.
Several of the papers, in which it is de
termined that the ruling party of France at
all times fhal! appear refpedtable, will now
have jt, that Danton has been guilty of the
crime of peculation, but that Koberfpierre's
hands are clean ; though it is forgot, while
this is sard, that Roberfpirre is in office, and
that Danton never was, as also, that it ever
has been allowed that the latter, knave as he
is, is open and bold, and the former cunning
and eowardly..
April to.
General Ricardos died at Madrid on the
19th ult. The Count O'Reilly was appoint
ed to succeed him ; but he died on his route
to take the command of the army. The
count de la Union consequently has been ho
nored with the chief command, and like
wise Governor and Captain General of Cata
lonia. He is a very young man, but very
much beloved by the troops.
There is much difference of opinion in the
Spanish council refpedling the continuance of
the war ; and the Duke D'Alcudia has had
the influence to fend M. D'Aranda into exile
for some free observations against the mea
sures of the court.
A letter from Portsmouth fays, Mcffrs.
Mair, P«lmer, and the other unfortunate
gentlemen, sentenced by the Scotch Judg
es to be transported to Botany Baj,'are
not now permitted to hold convetfation
wi th any one from the shore: Nor are I
boars fuffered to come along aside the
1 Surprize with any of their friends.
The King of Denmark Las ar.r.otiacidf
that, st the present moment, he dots ncft de
lirt a iumptuous refrdence for himfelf Or his
family; and, that the t contributions which
; have beeii furnilhed, shall be applied to the
1 PP''rt °f commerce, and of the honor of
the Daniih flag. These contributions already
, amount to 700,000 crows.
) Entradt of a letter from a very refpefta
, ble rtierdarttile hoitfe in London, dated
April 12—to their correspondent in
3 this city.
" We observe that Mr. fir ft
proposition had been adopted, but that
; the attempt of discriminating duties will
( be fruitlefs. We trull that that prudence
1 which has hitherto condtidled the Ameri
c can councils will not be departed from,
, and that you may long continue to enjoy
the blessings of peace.
" We hope the inftrU<3ious ifTtied by
this government on the Bth of January,
, will have quieted mens' minds in Ameii
. ca, and we flatter ourselves, Ministers will
a£t from such principles as will prevent
any future mifundcrftandirigs.
: " The condudl of the Weft-India Ad
, miralty Courts have ever refleaed discre
dit on this country, but we cannot for a ,
tnoment conceive their mcafures will be
fanftified by this government ; on' the
contrary, we do not doubt, by lodging
appeals here, those who been aggriev
ed by the decisions of those courts, wiil
have ample fatisfaftion afforded them. Be
allured the people of this country are e
qtially anxious with you to maintain the
most friendly intercourse with you, and
that ministry dare HdT adopt any mea
furcs which would be so opposite to the
general sentiments of the nation, as em
broiling us in an American war.
" Danton,Chabot, Fabre D'Eglantine,
&c. were guillotined on the 6th iuftant;
the two former behaved with great forti
tude, but the. latter shewed great iigns of
weakness;''
Vejels ill the Port of Boflon, May 26.
13 (hips, 5 6 brigs, 60 (loops and ro4 schoo
ners. 1 otal 154. Total tonnage, by elti
mauon, about 13000.
Treasury of ths United States.
ALL Perrons who are inclinrd to dil'pofe of
eithei of the difterent species of the Stocks of
th« Umtrd Siatcs, a.e hereby notified, that
Proposals will be received at the Treafurt r'i
Office No. It Cbefmit street; at any time un. 1
Hi Friday the 13th infta it at 12 o'clock.
SAMUEL MEREDITH
t for the T1 uftees for
the reduction of the Public
Debt.
June 4tli. 179 a. t. ,2.
NEW THEATRE.
Mrs. Marshall's Night,
this evening,
June 4.
Will be prel'entedj
A TRAGEDY, called
Romeo and Juliet*
Mr. Fennell
Efcaius, • Mr . finch
fr ns » Mr. Moreton
Montague, Mr. De Moulin
Capu'et, Mr . Gree „
rcu,l °- Mr. Chalmers
Benvoho, Mr. Cleveland
Tybalt, Mr. Harwood
Iriar Lawrence, Mr. Whitlock
Friar John, Mr. Warrell
Balthazar, . Mr. J. Darley
Apothecary, Mr. Francs
1 eter » Mr. Bliffet
1 a 8e ' Master T. Warrell
J ullef * „ Mrs. Marshall
(being her firft appearance in that charadter)
Lady Capulet, Mrs. Rowi'on
Nurse - , Mrs. Snaw
In ast 1. A MASQUERADE, w;th a dance
by the characters.
In adt J, The Funeral Procession and So
lemn Dirge.
End of the Play, (for the firft time) willb;
presented a New Comic Pastoral DANCE
called
La Role et le Bouton.
By Moni. Beiloha, Meflrs. Darley, jun. Blif
fett, and Madame Garcfie.
To which will be added,
A Musical FARCE, called
The ROMP.
Wattey Cockney, Mr. Francis
Barnacle, Mr. Finch
Old Cockney, Mr. De Mouhn
Captain Sightly, Mr. MaHhaU
Prifcilla Tomboy, Mrs. Marshall
Penelope, Miss Willems
Madame Le Blond, Mrs. Cleveland
Qwaflieba, Miss Kowfon
Choru3, Mefli-s. Darley jun. Warrell,
Lee, Baf'on, &c.
Mrs. MORRIS s night will be on Mon*
day next.A New Novel.
To the LADIf-S of Philadelphia.
This Day is nibtijbctl by
MATHEW CAREY,
iig, Market street,
mcc, «•' • dollar, sewed
half * doliar,
■ Charlotte, a tale of .Truth,
IN* TV.'O VOLUMES.
RvKl.s. RO vV-iON, of tie New Theatre,
Pliiadeipn.,, Author ot VifW.a, the In
j tin Filtede Cfambrc, Sc.
Of CharltiUi the kevktuers have given
the fa/lowing char a fit r.
IT mi, be a , a,e of Truth, tor it is not
unuJtural, and it is a o» leal'diltrels.
Charlotte, l.v. the artifice of a (cache., recom
mended to "a School, from humanity rather
than a com'irtii" of her integrity, or the re
gularity of her firmer condufl, is enticed
from her unvei i ef>, and accompanies a young
officer to°Amc.'..a.—The marrirge ceremo
ny.'rf not torgotten, i» poftpijned,* and I tiar
lotte d*>es .1 rti.irtyr to tlie iticonftancy ot the
over, and treachery Ot his friend — ' he litu
tilths are artless and affcistin«—*' he de!cri_p
luions natural and pathetic i «e ihould e
or Charlotte if such a per foil ever existed,
who for one er. or scarcely, perhaps, delerved
so (eve .■ a ptyilihinerit. " it ts a fiction,
poetic justice is not, we think; properly di(
tributed '-i
Sfi 'd Carey hds jujl puhUJhtd,
A 1 iheet map of Kentucky
c<mV>''ed bv Eliiiu Baiker, price oi:e dollar
a dtwathr<ds.
War Aria*, containing map"? of Frarjce,
Germany, Spa n,ltalv,the United Provinces,
the Netherlands, a d the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars.
Map of New Jersey—Hals a dollar.
Map; of Vermont, Conneflicut,Delaware,
Q-orgia Price three eighths of a dollar
eJC 'h. ' "l
'April 29. tuth&syv
Four Dollars Reward.
: A NEGRO MAN, named L'Eli»eran-«, a
but 25 years of a<?;e, of 'he Congo nation, 5
|e/t 6 inches high ; 'peak*, very little Enghfh
ran away from his ma(!<?r the 27'h instant.—
He dole and carried away wiih him one new
g e-Mi broad cloth coat, and many articles ot
hou£ f wmitii'e. Whoever ftiall taka Hp and
fecu/e the above negro in any goal, so that
he may be broug' 1 11 o justice Thn 11 t ecei ve the
above iewdrd. Enquire"of the Printer.
30 niw&f^t
JUST PUBLISHED,
THOM AS D OBS ON,
Bixjtfelier, at the Stone Iloufe in Secondjlreet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME XI OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA,
OR' A
Dictionary of Arts, StlcTices, aud Mifcel~
famous Literature,
ON a - plan entirely ne>v.; by which the dif
ferent (cjences and arts toredrgefted into the
form of diftiult -treatises or t'yftems. This
volume co'i tain $ the arficP-s, rnedi
cine, metallurgy, metaphvfics, methodists,.
Mexico, midrofcope, midwifrv, and a great
variety ot biographical and miscellaneous ar
ticles, illuftrate'd with nineteen copperplates.
The rabies of logarithms, 'fee. which
were deficient in the-tenth volume, are sub
joined to this.
Eleven voluniel of this work are now pub
lrfh?d ,and the XHth is in some forwafdnefs.
On the firit of September, 1792, the? price
of fubfeription was increased TKN dollars on
all Tests not taken before that time. The fub
fcriptiorv isftiil opea on these terms, and if
any copies remain by the firft of July jvext,the
price wiH be railed TEN dollars more, on
any copies which may be fubferibed for after
that period.
As many of the fubferibers have taken
only two, three or four, &Cs,\tolumes, they are
cameftly requested to take up and pay for the
remaining volumes, as it becomes difficult to
complete the setts, and -the publiflier does not
hold 1 bimfelf bouud to make up any setts after
firft day of Julynexf.
p' ll 22. m&th6w i
JUST PUBLISHED,
MATHEW CAREY, ,i
x 18, Market Jlrect,
Price 18 cents,
THE
Catechism of Man ;
Pointing out from found principles, and ac
knowledged fatts the Rights and Duties of
every Rational Being.
Am I therefore become your enemy because I
tell you the truth ? Gal. iv. 16
No\V all these things happened unto them for
examples, and they are written for our
admonition, upon whom the ends of the
are come. i Cor. xii.
Mav 10 tuth&saw
Advertisement.
THE relations of Mr Thomas Curtis,for
merly of Ellicott's Upper Mills, and lately of
the City of Washington, deceaftd, are d.'fir.
Ed to apply and have his affairs fettled.
. it y of Washington, April 22, 1764.
M. 5 m&th4w
Scheme bf a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, dedaclhig 15 per Cent, from
the PriK.es—this. Lottery conjijls oj _
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
1+.539 'Prints and' 23,4- 61 Blanks,
■ 'being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize. , „, , n
THK Uitcfl'tr* of : he Society for edlbiiiTiing
Ufctul M inufatlurcs, having resolved 10
erect LOT Xc-Al ES t'» railing Oxt Hundrsd
fUoUJANB Lint lars, agreeably 10/ an Att of
the LegifljtHre bf the Mate ot New-ttrfey, hive
appointed the following -pertons to fopertnUnd
and dirtft ihedrawing ol the laftte, vj, Nicho
las I.ow, Rutus King; Jiriman Le Hoy, Jame*
Wat'on, Richard HaruUm, Abijah Hammond,
and Cotm-ftus Ray, of the city ot New.York-
T"o<ii2i Willing, Jofeyl. Hall, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew Bayani, "I ttie city ot Phih>- .
delpliia—His Excfllen'cy Richard Howell, fclq.
Julias Boudinot, General Elas Dayton, Jaims
Parker,-John Bayard; Doctor Lewis Donham
Samuel W. Stockton, |o[l.Ua M. Wallace, Joseph
Bloo.mfieid, and Elilba Umidinot, ol N< w- Jer
{ ey. 'who offei the following Scheme ot a Lot
tery, and pledge thtmfVives to the public, that
they will tak- etery alfiirance and precaution in
ijicir power to hove the Monies paid by the
Managcis, fiom time to time, as received, into
the Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain loi ibe puipoleol paying Priz-s, which
(hall be irnmtdiaicly discharged by a check
npon one-«»f the Banks.
SCHEME:
1 20,000 Dollars is £o,coo
, j 10,000 10,000
a lOjOOO
r 2,000 10,000
-,o 1,000 10,000
20 ir»,ooo
IC O 100 10,000
- 3 co 5° l i' oo °
JOCO 20 20,000
2'obo 15 V 3°> 000
QOOO *2 3^OQO
8100 *0 81, too
14,539 Prizes. £62,000
23.461 Blanks. Fit ft (irawn number, 2,000
Laildrawn number, 2,000
38,000 Tickcts at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
The' drawing will commence, under the in
fpettionof a'Gomnmtee of'the SuperMUendants,
as loon as the Tickets are fold,ot which timely
notice will be given.
The-Superinienuants have appointed John N.
Cutft'mi'ftg, ot Newaik, Jacob R. Hardenbergf
ot New-Biunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of j
TreiUoh, as immediate Managers thereof, who j
have given ample fecuiity for discharging the 1
trull reposed in them.
(£T- In order to fecurethe pbnftual payment
of the Prizes, (beSupefintendants of the Lottery
have directed that the Manage;s ftiall-e'ach enier
into bonds 111 4c, 000 dollais, with tour fufficient
fccurui s, to perform their infti u&ions, the ftfb
-11 a nee of which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
Hi all receive the sum of T#ree Hundred Dollars,
(hall immdiatt-ly ph»o? thefame in one of the
Ifianks of New-York-or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit of the Governor of and such
ol the Superin endants as live in the city where
'the monies are placed, to remain there rintil the
•Lottery fs drawn,for the paymnt of the Prizes.
-11. The Managers to take lufficieni fccuMty
•for any Tickets they may trutt, otlierwife to be
rcfponiihJe for them. <
"Til. To keep regular books df Tickets fold,
f Momes received and paid into the Bank, ab w
ftratts df winch shall be sent, monthly, to the
Govtrnor of the Society.
Pattrfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle
men, information will'be given where tickets
may be had.
February 24. fu&ftf.
Di-ftri£tof Pennsylvania
T 0 IV I T:
fL S 1 remembered, that on the
twenty fourth day of March,
ihe eifih'feentli year of the-iwlependence of the
U iit<fd States of America,Ebenezer Hazard
of the laid diftrift, hasdepofited in this office,
the tirtt of a botfk,The*right whereof heclaims
as author, in the words following, td wit :
" Historical Collections ; confif'ling of (fate
papers, and other authentic documents; in
tended as materials for an history of thfe U
nited States of America.
By EBEN'EZEIi HAZARD, A. M.
Member of the American Phllofophieal So.
cietv, held at Philadelphia, for promoting
u!ef«l knowledge; Fellow of the American
academy of Aits and and corref
pondent member of the Maflachufetts Hifto
rical Society.
VOLUME 11.
Ingeninm, Pietas, Artei, ac bellica virtu;
Hue profugje venient, et Regna illuftric
condent,
Et Doniina hie Virtus erit, et Fortuna mi
niftra,'*
r In conformity to the ast of the Congress o
the United State;, entitled " An sft tj>r th<
' eucouragement of learning, by tht
[ copies of maps, charts and books, to the au
thors and propiietors of fnch Copies, dirrinj
r the times therein mentioned."
r SAMUEL CAI-.DWF.LL,
: Clerk of the DiflriH of Pennsylvania.
May 7 ew4w
sr H 0 E s.
j. A quantity of ftont well ntade Men's fiz
SHOES, adapted for the Southern market, so
sale at
No. 36", North Third Jireet.
May 6 mwiifiot
The Public are cautioned to
be<ware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills cf
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty {■
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America, I
several of <wbich have appeared in circulation ,
within a few days pajl; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be dijlinguifhed by the following
marks.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States. t
ALL that have appeared have the letter F. \
for their Alphabetical Mark. r
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and a
whiter knd it takes the iok more freely than
the genuine paper. c
The O. in the Word Company is smaller
than theM. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of the O,
to tbuch the top of the M. would extend cou
fi'dcrably above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow- 4
erand closer together than thv reft of the bill
The t and fiu the word promise are not (
parallel, the yinclining much moie forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the strokes j
of all the Letters are stronger and the device
in the margin pafticularly isrm'uch coailer and ,
appears darker than in the true bills. Some ,
ot the counterfeits bear date in 1791 —Where- (
as the Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were iflued in
jhat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described ; the engraving is bettei exe
wcted, and they approach neaier to the ap
pearance of tne genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Tu.cn
tvy in the iJhdy of the bill, are in number thir
teen in the gen dine blls, and but twelve in
the counterfeit*.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five-Dollar Bills as defer ibed a
bove, the 0 being leis tlian .the 7/2, and others
following.
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are <0 cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and go
ing below'them.
The fignaiurc J Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamb-black aod
oil, and differs from other inks used in
printing the bills and the cafliier's signature;
It is supposed these forgeries were committed
in some of the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai jiave. appeared, have come Irom
thence, and two peiions have been apprehend
ed in Virginia, on suspicion ot being the author
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be <paid to any PeHon or Pcifons w4io-ftva!l
discover and profecute-tactmviftion the several
offenders of the following.defenptions or any
'of them, viz.
The perfori or pcrfons, who manufa&ured
the paper on which the Bills are printed.
•The pei sou or peifons* who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
Every person who hasa&ed as a principal in
any other way, in the couttterleii-ing and utter
ing the said bills.
Philadelphia, 28, 1794
■April 22, 77.94,
' Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical maik is the let
ter £.
They may be distinguished from the genu
ine by the foMowiirg IVI'A PiKS :
The paper of the counterfeits is of a more
e tender texture and glofley furface than the
D genuine, and there is no water mark in them.
Tke letter C. in the-word Calhier f in the
S true bills isftrongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
e stroke, evidently in.an unfiniilied llate. .The
letters in the word demand, is badly lormtd
and the whole woid iTI done, and there is no
comma at the eud of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
>• The marginal device, is much daiker in
g the falfe, than in the genuine bills owing to
n the fhadfc strokes being coarser, much nearer
f together,:and ronfequently much mote tiu
-- merous. difference fti ikes the eye at fir it
view.
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
j, DOLLARS, will be paid for &:
a prrtfecutjng to convi<stion the several above
described Oifenders in lefpedt to this, as to
1- the last described bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Pitfulent
as of the B.mk United States.
Ie JOHN NIXON, Pr, fident of the
le Bank cjt North America.
11- By order of the Committees of the Ref
ig -peftive Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible fituJtion, —also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
ze land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
01 House is not exceeded bymany in. the vicinity
of the city, ill lize, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
mScttf
THE rffic of rt« P: efitient and Director,
«f tie n.urance Company of Nok T , ;
America, is nmavtd to No. 107, 60 u h
Front ltreer, being the foutli east curi.er of
From and Walnut ftrects.
To the Electors of the city and
county of Philadelphia.
Gentlemen;
This being the last year of the prefer
S eri.f's time in office. I take the !.ber
ty to otter mvlelf a Candidate, and foljcit
vour votes and interests in my favor, to plare
me on the return at the next general Election;
as his fuccelTor for said office ; in doing which
you will confer an obligation that will be
gratefully remembered, by
Vour most obedient,
and humble lervant,
JOHN BAKER.
M:y 3. est!'.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-llrcet, New-York.
THE Sublcribei intending to confine Kijnfclf
entirely to (he PURCHASE &SALK or
'STOCKS oti COMMISSION, b«gs leave to of
fer his ferviceftto his li iends and others, in
line o( a Stock Broker. Those who may plcafe
to favor bttn with their business, may d<p, i,<f
upon having it tranfa&ed wuh-tbeiKrhdikfcdV.
iity arid dif patch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Bolton,'or any
other part of The United States, will »>f. Ilriftly
attended to. LEONARD BLEAKER.
Just Published,
ji one har.&fome volume, 12mo. Price 5s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
jit Franllin's Hea/l, No. 41, Chefitut
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, .by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Correded mid Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
n. d.
Profeflbr of Moral Poiiofophy, and the Law
oi Nature, and of Eccleiiaftieal History ;
and Mihifter.of the Englifli Chut eh at U
trerht.
Aliquid Temper ad communcm utilitatem af
ferendum. Cicero.
The F'trjl American Edition.
THEgrand principle of Equality, if .right
ly uuderftood, is the only bafts otvwliuh
universal justice,. sacred order, and perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly feeured. The* view of it exhibited in tin*
eflay, attheiame time that it repVeft'es tfve
insolence of. office, the tyranny of pride, ar.d
the outrages of. opjjreffiqn ; confirm*, in the
most forcible manner, of fubov-
dination, and the just demands ot lawful au
thor*! ry. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural ard every civil diftin&ion,
draws more clo<elyevery foci a 1 tie, Unites in
one harmonious and justly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation,-and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March iB. tuts
STATE OF SOUTH-CAROLINA*
In the House of Representatives,
December 21^,1793.
WHEREAS the Comrniilioners ot public
Accounts, hove reported, that they can
not proceed to the investigation of the Treatuiy
Accounts, refpe&ing fpeeial Indents, without
knowing the on 1 (landing amount thereof in cir
culation T1 crcfore,
ReJohtd s That all holders of fpeeial Indents
be du cfted, and rrqtiirca, on or before the fiift
day ot November n. Xt, to deliver the fptciaJ In
dents in their pofTeffion to one or other ot the
Commiftioners of the Treasury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to report to tlaeCom
miflioners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
then* refpeftively receiver!, and also to the Le
gjflature, at their meeting in November next,
and that all fpeeial Indents not rendered into
the Treafur.y as above, on or before the fkil day
of November next, lhall be, and the fame are |
heubv barred.
Rcjoh'edi That public notice of this tefolution
be given vn the several Gazettes in this State,.
• onee every three weeks, unil the firft day ot
November ncftt. And » hat the Delegates of this
State in the Congrrfj of the United States', be te
qutfled to caute this rctoiution to be published
in one or mme papers ifMhe cities of Philadel
phia and Nrw-Yprk. and that provifmn will be
made lor the expences attending such publica
tion.
E Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
•Senate for their concurrence.
Bv order ol the House,
JOHN SANMORD DART, C.Ii.R.
In th £ SENATE,
'December «? 1 f1,*793- |
Rcfolved. That this House do concur wuh the
House of Reprefcntatives m the foregoing reio
lutions.
Ordered, That th® resolutions be lent to the
Houlc ot Reprrlentarives.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Cletk.
J. ew"Nov.
y PHILADELPHIA:
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 3ij
South Fourth-Street. .