of tfe llttifei Jpfeife %
V E
E
[No. 7of Vol. V.]
For Amsterdam,
■f-J-, Tlic new falt-failinc:, copper
bottomed SHIP
fgg ADRIAN A,
K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and \yas in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight orpaflage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. C5 1 JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794«
For Frederick fyurgb
Falmouth,
(Rappahannock River, Virginia)
. THE SCHOONER
Friend/hip,
b , s j Macnamara,Matter
Will fail 011 Saturday next. For freight or
paflaje apply to the Captain oil board, at
Jolia Wain's Wharf, or to
Emanuel Walker.
WHO HAS FOR SALF,
VIRGINIA TOBACCO, FLOUR,
WHEAT, and GINSENG.
March 5. 3 twff
For Sale or Charter,
Tlie Sh,p
bmtrj ANDROMACHE,
( an American bottom)
John Moore, Master ;
Is a itout good veflel, about two years old,
burthen 43 » tons, has only made Jhree voy
ages, and may be sent to sea at a small ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
Wharton Lewis.
Feb. 2i, 1794-
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Petersburg in RuiTia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
PAR IRON,
R TT SSIA SHEETING,
i; even's duck,
7< 'iSSIA DUCK,
lion's BRISTLES. .
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Wamut-ftrect.
(\lw3tawtf
March 4,1794
Jlift Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipe
A few bales Holland Ducky
Ditto OznaburgSt
Holland Sheeting,
]Juniper Berries,
Glafi Wart, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious Jhsts*
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes square andjlat bars.
Hair Ribband\ No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, CSV* C>c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
fbould application be made within a few days ;
other wife Jhe will.tale freight for Amjler
di'm.
March I, 1794.
WHEREAS an alia* fubpcena has ifiued
out of the Supreme Court of this Com
monwealth, at the suit of Margaret Evans,
upon a petition preferred by the said Marga
ret, praying for a Divorce from the bonds o
Matn mon y, entered into with Rober* Evans.
This it to g»vc notice to the said Robert, that
he be and appear at the said Supreme Court, to
be held at the City of Philadelphia on Monday
the seventh day of April next, at the State-House
in the said City, to anfwet the matters alledged
in the said petition,
Wm. CHAPMAN,
Sheriff of Bucks County.
Mareh 5. 1794-
T$ Rsbert Lvans.
NI N G
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased,
TheHoufe N°. 245,
Lot of Ground
On which it Hands, wherein Jam f s Biddle
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
street, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet 10 inches in
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold lub
je& to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to toe
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their fuccefibrs
forever. For terms apply to
and
Samuel Coatfs,
Jonathan Jones,
Anthony W. Morris,
Samuel Powell GRirnrns,
Surviving Executor* of
Deborah Morris, d?c'd
*eop ,v.v
March I, 1794.
W A N T E D,
A Man Servant,
Who is acquainted with the common duties
about a house. None need apply but such
as can be well recommended.
March 4.
A Slitter of Iron
WANTED.
A MAN well (lulled in rolling and
flitting Iron into Sheets, may have
good encouiagement by calling on the
Printer. Feb. 27. eop4t
Excellent CLARET,
In hogl'»cads and in cafcs of 50 bottles cach.
also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter cafV.s,
FOR SALE BY
No. in, South Front«!trcei
Jm. 2, 1794.
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25* Dock-
Street :—
A few Bales of R.iflia Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotion Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Tonkav, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Qu mtity of lir iin it >ne,
With a Variety of other Goods.
3* a w6w
Feb. 20.
Exhibition of Artificial
Chinese Fire-JVorks,
Without powder, smell, or smoke.
MR. STUVER returns his sincere thanks
to the public for the great encourage
ment he has met with, and has the h(Dnor to
inform them, that his exhibition will be con
tinued every evening (Sundays excepted) at
7 o'clock, in Cherry-Alley, the firfl door weft
of Fourth-street. Tickets for grown persons
I id. and for children 6d.
Sele6fc parties confiding of ten or more per
sons will be admitted from 8 o'clock until 10,
notice being given the afternoon previous to
the exhibition. Tickets one quarter dollar.
Vivat Respublica.
*4t
March 4.
TREASURYofPENNSYLVANIA,
February 14* 1 794*
PUBLIC Notice is hereby given to all per Co n
indebted to the Commonwealth, (or monies
borrowed of the Trußees of the Loan Office,
eftabliibcd per ad of the 4 th of April, 1785,
that the time is expired when the last payment
ftould have been made, and every jnftifiable
indulgence having been granted. That unlcfa
thev come forward and pay oil their refpedtive
balances on or before the firft day of April nox',
precepts will issue against all delinquents with
out regard to persons or cirrnmOances. Ail
former and exiftiug Iheriffs, who have money
in their hands belonging to said Office, arc li
quefied to bring it to me on or before the above
period, otherwise I (hall be under the disagree
able necessity of prosecuting them without dif
* tin&ion.
d—tf
P. S. The Printer* throughout the State a r e
requeued to iniert the «bove in their paper* for
the information of their fellow-citii.cn*.
*taw4w
AND
ADVE R T I
Monday, March 10, 1794.
AND
Enquire of the Printer.
dtf
JOHN VAUGHAN,
dtf
CHRISTIAN FEBIGER
For Sale by the Sub/lribers,
Muscovado sugar in hhds.&bbis.
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry superior quality, in pi'pes
and quarter calks,
Spanilh indigo.
Boston Beef, in barrel
And a small invoice of Muslins.
NALBRO' & JOHN FRAZIER,
No. 164, South Front-flreet.
March 8
Writing
ON SIGN-BOA RDS, JAPANN'D
PLATES, tfc.
Done in the mod elegant manner, and after
the firft mailers ; liktwife,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finiftied at the fhortefl notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
[n Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth streets.
dtf
March 4
'To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nth day of April next,
at the house of John Thomson, in Perth-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY,
THE Lot contains eleven acres, on which is
an orchard of grafted apple trees, a well of
excellent water, a large (lone c.stern, and a very
commodious stable and coach-houfc, and a great
quantity of the best building stones in the walls
of the house, which was formerly built for the
refjJence of the Governors of New- Jerfcy. The
filiation of this Lot is so well known for its
healthiness and beautiful profpeft of the Rarston
river to the weft of the bav, and Sandy-Hook to
the east, thai a further defoiption is unnccrffary.
The conditions of sale will be, one third of the
purchase money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, when a good and fufficiem Deed will
be given to the puichaf"*r, by Walter Ru
th eh surd, Esq. President of the Board of
Proprietors of the Eastern Division of New-
Jerffey, and the remaining two thirds fatisfa&o
rily secured in equal annual payments.
By order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Rcgifter.
Perth-Ambov, February 5.} 794 gawam
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation, —also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
Hoirfe is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in size or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer,
January 23.
A RE COM PENCE OF
One Hundred Dollars,
IS her by offered by the Prffident and Direc
tors of the Bank of the United States, to any
person who (hall, on or before the full day of
May next, produce to them fuch.n plan and ele
vation ol a Banking House, as (hall be approved
of by-them.—A plain, yet handsome front is
defited : The whole building is to be fubflaniial
and commodious with as much space around it,
as thr size of the ground will admit.
The Lot on which the building is to be erefV
ed, is situated on the weft fideqf Third-street,
between Chefnut and Walnut-ftrcets in Phila
delphia ; and its dimensions arc 110 feet on
Third-street, and about 100 feet westward.
THOMAS WILLING, Prefidcrtt.
eop 3W.
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public, That from the encouragement
he has received, from several refpe&able Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his fe-vices to
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidence
in him j and he allures those who employ him,
that their confidence shall not be misplaced -
bur it (hall be his constant endeavor, to pay the
ftri&eft attention to their be ft interest, in all ne
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber,
in State-Street, over Mr. David Tuwnfend, Watch
Maker's Shop.——Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of all kinds, are bought and fold; w.d
whete Com million Bufmefs of all kinds, will te
tranfaftcd on icaforiable terms'. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be constantly exposed lor hie, on
cominiffioji.
%* Cadi paid for -Salem, Providence, and
Ponfmouth BILLS.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, o r
Sew-Yoik.hfs any Bujtntfi [c tratfael at fitjltn,
in Paper Negotiations, he will it h'Pf} U be ««-
ploxed on comnvffion.
Bolton, Jan. 179 V
S E R.
[Whole No. .?53>]
Congress of the United. States.
IN SENATE,
Friday, February 28.
Mr. Vining from the joint committee
on enrolled bills, that they had
examined the bill, entitled, " An a& in
alteration of .the ast establishing a mint
and the coins of the United
States," and tTiat it was duly enrolled.
fmw4W
A mefTage irom the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their clerk :
" Mr. President, —The Speaker of th#
House of Representatives having signed
an enrolled bill, I am dire fled to bring it
to the Seuate for the signature of the Vice
President"—And he withdrew.
The Vice President signed the enrolled
bill last mentioned to have been examined,
and it was delivered to the committee on
enrolled bills, to be laid before the Presi
dent of the United States for his appro
bation
Mr. Vining from the joint committee
on enrolled bills, reported that they had
this day, laid the last mentioned enrolled
bill before the President of the United
States. . .
The Senate resumed the consideration
■of the motion made the 22d inflant, on
the report of the committee, on the pe
tition of Conrad Laub and others, refpeft
ing the ele&ion of Mr. Gallatin to be a
Senator of the United States,
And on the question to agree to the
motion as follows;
" Resolved, That Albert Gallatin, re
turned to this House as a membei for the
State of Pennfylvania,is duly qualified for,
and elected to a feat in the Senate of the
United States."
It patted in the negative—Yeas 12—
Nays 14.
The yeas and nays being required by
one fifth of the Senators present,
Those who voted in the affirmative,
Messrs. Bradley, Brown, Burr, But
ler, Edwards, Gunn, Jackson, Lang
don, Martin, Monroe, Robinson and
Taylor.
Those who voted in the negative, are,
Messrs. Bradford, Cabot, Ellfworth,
Foster, Frelinghuyfen, Hawkins, Izard,
King, Livermore, Mitchell, Morris, Potts,
Strong and Vining.
On motion, that it be
m&tFi— tf
" Resolved, That the election of Al
bert Gallatin to be a Senator of the Uni
ted States was void, he not having been
a citizen of the United States, the term
of year 3 required as a qualification, to be
a Senator of the United Sates."
A motion was made to divide the quef
tior at the word " void" and
On motion
To agree to the firil paragraph of the
motion so divided—
It passed in the affirmative—yeas 14 —
Nays 12.
The yeas and nays being required by
one-fifth of the Senators present.
Those who voted in the affirmative, are,
Messrs. Bradford, Cabot, Ellfworth, Fos
ter, Frelingbuyfen, Hawkins, Izard, King,
Livermore,Mitchell,Morris, Potts, Strong
and Vining.
Those who voted in the negative, arc,
MefTrs. Bradley, Brown, Burr, Butler,Ed
wards,Gunn, Jackson, Langdon.Martion, -
Monroe, Robinson, and Taylor.
On motion to adopt the refutation a»'
follows:
" Resolved, That the election of Al
bert Gallatin to be a Senator of the Unit
ed States, was void ; he not having been
a citizen of the United States, the terra
of years required as a qualification, to be
a Senator of the United States."
It pafled in the affirmative—yeas 14,
nays 12.
The yeas and nays being required by
one fifth of the Senator* present ;TTwfc who voled in the afLmatn-r,
*
Mefli-j. Bradford, Cabot, Ellfworth,
toiler, Freliughuyfrn, Hawkins, Izard,
King, Liverm:.re, Mitch el, Morris, Potts,
Strong, and Vmiog.
Tiiofe who vcted in the negative, are
Meurs. Bladley, Bro\vn, Buh, Butler,
Edwards, CJunn, Jaodou, Langdon, Mar
tiij, Monroe, Robmfou and Taylor.
0:w vrtion,
Re . -ived, That an attelied copy of the
resolution of the Senate, declaring the e-
of Albert Gallatin to be void, be
tranfimued by the Prefideat of the Senate
to the executive of the Commonwealth of
Pennsylvania.
The report of a coihmittee on the peti
tion of Conrad Laub and others above
referred to, and ffiadc on the 10th iulL is
as follows ]
The committee of*cle<ftions to whom
was referred the petition of Conrad Laub
and others against the election of the Ho
norable Albeit Gallatin -as a benator of
the United States For the State of Penn
sylvania— report, tliat they the
lame underconfederation—and having giv
e 1 due notice, as well the petitioners by
their agent Michael Smyier as the laid
Mr. Gallatin, appeared before them, and
{hi the part of the petitioners the following
evidence was produced, viz.
Robert Morris, Esq. being duly sworn
depoieth, that during the war two of his
fbus went to Geneva for their education,
at that place they became acquainted
with some of the friends of Albert Galla
tin, who had gone for America, and they
bein£ solicitous to hear of his fafety, de
sired-Mr. Morris's sons to write to their-
father, to make enquiiy and give the in
formation he should obtain, Tliat, fre
quently afterwards, he received letters for
Mr. Gallati'i from Europe which he al
ways liippofed to come from the friends
of Mr, Gallatin in Geneva. He supplied
Mr. Ca'kitin with money for a bill upon
London, and there supposed the funds to
pay the l'arhe were remitted from Geneva.
Mr. Morris paid Mr. Gallatin about one
thousand guineas by order of Meflrs.
& Co. Bankers in Paris,
believing always that they were re-imburf
ed from Geneva. Mr. Morris does not
recoiled dates, not having for a long while
ken any of the letters that pasTed on the
Jnbieft ; lie did not know the place of Mr.
Gallatin's nativity, but from the general
courie of the circumitances which came
under his obfi-rvation, he always did sup
pose he was born in Geneva.
S»vorn to and subscribed January 2 2d,
1 7 94-
Nathaniel Cabot Higginfon, Esq. be
ing duly sworn, depofeth, That he does
not kuow direaiy any thing of Mr. Gal
latin's being a foreigner or native—That
he recollects knowing him by reputation
and fight at Boston, in one of the years
81, 82 or 83, and that he was generally
reputed to be a foreigner—This deponent
believes th-t Mr. Gallatin then taught the
French languagr and did not speak the
English with facility, and further recol
leas that Mr. Gallatin was resident there
or thereabout* a considerable time. This
deponent further fays that he never had
any conversation with Mr. Gallatin, but
founds his belief with refpeft to Mr. Gal
latin's not speaking the English with faci
lity, on the information received from o
thers.
Sworn to and subscribed January 2 2d,
1794.
Kir. John Breakbill being duly sworn
t "tli lies, that la it winter being a member
of the Legislature of Pennsylvania, previ
ous to the clcftion of Senator for the slate
of Pennsylvania, I heard Mr. Gallatin fay
h'.s.citizenfhip would not admit his being
a Senator ; what were his reasons for mak
ing the declaration I cannot fay, 1 took
it he did not wish to be elected. This de
claration by Mr. Gallatin was made at a
meeting of a number of members of Penn
sylvania legislature held for the purpose of
agreeing who should be set up as a candi
date ; the deponent further fays he does
not recollect Mr. Gallatin's afiigning any
other reason for his backwardness to serve
as a Senator than the want of citizenship.
Sworn to and fubferibed January 22d
1794.
Henry Kamnierer, Esq. being duly
sworn, teflifies, that last winter being a
member of the legislature of Pennsylvania,
and previous to the election of Senator for
the said (late, at a meeting of a number
of the members of the state legislature, to
agree upon a candidate to fill said office, I
heard Mr. Gallatin fay when his name was
prepolo!, " A» for my flame It u out of
fie <ju«iiion, I hawc not lx<m a citizeh
long enough, to Entitle me to ferre in that
itation." That at a iecojid meeting for
die fame purpose, Mr. Caßatto was again
propofcd as a proper person for a candi
date, and then the deponent understood
(not from Mr. Gallatin) bilt from some
of the members of aflembly then present;
that the doubt about his citizenlhip was
then put to rights ; and then it was almolt
uuanimoufly agreed to put up Mr. Gal
latin's name. That 011 the morning suc
ceeding Mr. GaUatin'sele&ion, the depon
ent heard it observed, that notwithstanding
Mr. Gallatin's election, he could not take
his feat in confcquence of his declaration
tliat he had not been longVnuugh a citi
zen-. That he the fame day mentioned
this to Mr. Gallatin, who said that he had
made this declaration under a mistaken
idea, that it was necefiary for him to have
been nine years a citizen of Pennsylvania,
but that upon examining the Constitution
he had found that to have been nine years
a citizen of the United States was fuffici
ent, and that he had been above nine years
a citizen of the United States, or words
to that effect.
Sworn to and fubferibed January 2 2d,
179+.
Pelatiah Webster, being duly qualified,
j teftifies, that eleven years ago lail l'ummer,
I let my house in Philadelphia to Mary
Lynn, who proposed to take lodgers, I
reserved apartments for myfelf, and board
ed with her—Soon after Mr. Savery and
Mr. Gallatin took lodgings of her, and
continued a number of months there, Mr.
Savery spoke no Englilh, Mr. Gallatin
fpokc good Eriglifh, and served as inter
preter for him ; they appeared to be well
bred gentlemen and their conduct was a
greeable and conciliating, and they soon
gained the elleem and refpeft of the'family
—I do not know that they ever declared
their country but we all fuppo w \j' they
were French, and of comic the people,
cuftomsand country of Fiance often made
the topic of fire-fide chat In one oi t hese
transient conversations Mr. Ga!!a-:.i took,
occasion to fay that his knowledge of
French affairs was not very p. no foi
he was not a native of France nor had ever
resided long in that country, but was from
Geneva. No one intereftmg circumstance
made any further enquiry necefiarv, nor
do I recollect that he made any more ex
plication of the subject.
N. B. Mr. Gallatin once said that his
original name was not Gallatin, but 1
think he said it was Sydney, but this con
versation was in drollery and not in earnest,
as I conceived at the time of speaking,
from the manner and air of his i peak in p
thereon.
Sworn to and subscribed January 28th
1794.
Mr. John Smilie, member of the House
of Reprefcntatives of the United States,
being sworn, faith, that at a meeting of
sundry members of the Legislature qf
Pennsylvania, previous to Mr. Gallatin's
election as a Senator of the United States,
that gentleman was mentioned as a proper
person to fill the said office ; at which time
Mr. Gallatin started some doubt refpeft
ing his being qualified, but in what words
the deponent does not recoiled.
•That the deponent did not understand
upon what the doubt was founded, tho'
he thinks from something said by Mr.
thatit related to Mr. Gallat In's ci
tizen (hip, for as the deponent conceived,the
conversation proceeded from that kind of
modelty which gentlemen usually feel up
on having their names propol'ed upon such
occasions, he did not pay much attention
And that his reason for
this opinion was his having frequently ol>
fenred gentlemen to make excuses in si
milar situations, and from his knowledge
of Mr. Grllatin's modelty of difpofitiori.
—When being allied, whether he ever
heard Mr. Gallatin fay that he had not
been a citizen of the United States, nine
years previous to his election, the depo
nent replies, he never did. Upon being
ed by Lewis, counftl for the petition
ers, what he had ever heard Mr. Gall-tin
fey touching his citizenship, the deponent
f-ephes, that a considerable time subse
quent to Mr. Gallatin's election, Mr.
Gallatin in conversation with the depo
nent exprefled an opinion, that he was
qualified with refpeft to citizenship.—
\\ hat else did you ever hear Mr. Galla
tin fay with refpeft to his citizen/hip ?_
The deponent ar.fwers that he recollects
having heard him fay something with
refpeft to the laws of Massachusetts not
requiring an oath of il tli e
tin'e of his, opinion as aforcfeio'. D d
you ever hear Mr. Gallatin fay he was
born in Europe ? The deponent replies,
that he dix:3 mrt recollect Mr. Gallatin's
faying tint he was born iji Europe, but
that has heard Mi. Gallatin Ipeak of
himlell as a Genevan, mention his family
in Geneva, and in conversations with him
hath always understood him to be of Ge
neva. Did you ever hear Mr. Gallatin men
tion the time of his coming into Ameri
ca ? He replies, that he thinks Mr. Gal
latin, about a year past mentioned, that
he had been thirteen years in this coun
try, and that he was nineteen years old
when he came. Did you ever hear Mr.
Gallatin lay when or where he took the
oath of allegiance ? He replies, he heard
Mr. Gallatin fay that he took the oath
of allegiance in Virgina, but as to the
time, the deponent cannot be precise, but
he thinks, if he can recollect, that Mr.
Gallatin did mention to him, though he
cannot be certain, that it was not nine
years before he was elected. That the
deponent thinks Mr. Gallatin's doubts
relpe&ing his citizenftiip were founded on
this ground, the witneis referring in this
part of his testimony to the meeting be
fore mentioned, when these doubts were
expressed ; but he cannot fpecify the
time o£ Mr. Gallatin's having mentioned*
to him the cireumftance of his having ta
ken the oath of allegiance.
Sworn to and fubferibed January 28th
x 794*
Mr* Thomas Stokeley being sworn de
pofeth and faith, that some few days be
fore a Senator was chofcn for the State
«f Pennsylvania a meeting was had to fix
on a proper person to represent the state
in that oiiice, sundry perfon® were darted
as candidates, among whom was Mr. Gal
latin, who upon his being named, obser
ved that there were many other perlons
more proper-to fill that office and also ob
served, that there might be doubts as to
his citizen/hip, though the deponent from
the ,ength of time and not expecting to
have been called upon, retains too flight
an impression of what then pafled, to be
able to recollect the words with precision.
i oat at a fubfequerit meeting for the fame
purpose, Mr* Gallatin was finally agreed
to be nominated, and the deponent heard
no objedhon started thereto, either by Mr.
Gallatin (who was prefcnt) or any other
person-
Sworn to and subscribed February ill,
1 794-
The before recited evidence being in
troduced and clofcd on the part of the
petitioners, Mr. Gallatin was alked whe
ther he had any teilimony to produce on
his part, to which he gave the following
answer in writing, to wit:
" The committee to whom the petition
ot Conrad Laub, &c. was referred, ha
ving informed me that the petitioners had
doled their evidence, and a/kcd me " whe
ther 1 had any teilimony to produce on
my lide, ' I ANSWER, that it appears
to me that there is not fufficient matter
charged in the petition, and proved by the
teilimony to vacate my feat; that by the
icfoiution appointing the committee, the
petition is referred to them to Hate the
ta&s, « without prejudice as to any quef
t'ons which may, upon the hearing, be rai
sed by the fitting member, as to the fuf
ficiency of the parties and the matter
charged in the petition that epon the
hearing, & in the present stage of the fame,
the quellion as to the fufficiency of mat
ter, as above dated, is raised by me ; that
I conceive from the evident conflru&ion
of the resolution, I have a right to have
that question decided by the Senate : that
until the fame /hall have been decidcd, I
do not wilh to be at the trouble and ex
pense of collecting evidence at a great
distance ; and therefore, that at present I
do not mean to produce any teilimony,
reserving, however, to myfelf the right
which I conceive I have to produce any
teilimony in my favor, after the said
question (hall have been decided bv the
Senate, in cafe it is decided against me."
(Signed)
ALBERT GALLATIN.
Which being duly read and coniidered
the committee came to the following re
solution to wit:
Whereas the evidence on the part of
the petitioners having been closed,' and
it appearing that Mr. Gallatin was an
alien in the year 178 c—and his anfweriii
writing afligning realms why he fliould
not adduce evidence on his' part in the pre
fect flage of the enquiry not boimr in the
opinion of the committee fufficiesit.
R f/ia:J, Tiot in the opinion of the
committee it is now iiicum ent on Mr.
Osllatin to Uiew that lie has become a ci
tizen of the Uiiited Stales ai:d when.
Which refolutioji being read ,to Mr.
Gallatin, he iiiformd the committer be
(hould n:ly on the aniwer he had before
given.
All which is refjieflnilly submitted to
the Honorable Si'ssti*, by the Omixuitc.
("To be coaiinuid.)
For the G.izstts of the Unitsd Stj Tit,
The cafe of the People of Kentucky,
in their demand of a tree navigation of
ths river Mifiifippi, through the dominions
of the Spaniards, is but little known or
understood—and dcierve* to be coufider
ed.
The States, then Colonies, confedera
ting in 1775, to aflot their common li
berties, had either definite, or indefinite,
territorial claims.
The whole being Gived and secured by
the ■: ins of the United States, 110 other
expe&atioD was entertained on the fettling
of our independences, but that State*,
having the indefinite- claims, ihould be al
lowed to take out of them what further
it might be convenient to add, to their
local jurudi&ion, leaving the remainder
to the Union, as a fund towards extin
guifning the national debt incurred by
the war.
Had the government of the union been
in any respect efficient, such would have
been the event, but it being far otherwifc
it rfcfted upon the States themselves to
make the transfers.
A partial intereil prevailing over so
equitable a confideiation, and over the
sense of common good, few of the States
made cessions to Congress until they had
cut oti for themselves the nearcft and fair
ell portions, leaving to the Union i'carce
any parts that could in a generation be
brought into life—Such acceflion of pro
perty, in consequence brought, with it
r.ither a burthen than benefit. The in
jured Ifotes remonstrated in vain the
confederation was threatened in its con
summation, and for a time endangered.
One of the states particulaly a (Turned
and fold out the diftrift called Kentucky
for her tT.vti benefit ; which besides put
ting m~mey into her tieafury afforded a
profitable ipeculation to her individualci-
tizcns.
This proceeding of the state was far
from an adherence to the rule spoken of
the space already occupied by her exiftingf
lettlers, was then of an extent fufficicnt
for local jinifdich'on, for by her own con
sent Kentucky was set apart from her as
a new state—Kentucky ought then, ac
cording to the rule, to have been in the
allotment to the general government.
Injured in the loss of property, Ame
rica fulfained a further and more serious
injury by. this meafurc—inafmuch as it
was an attempt, of bad example, to form
premature settlements of the back lands,
which were necefiarily to lead off great
numbers of inhabitants from the maritime
country, that country which pught to
have been the obje6t of our immediate
hope and" care ! thus proportionably batt
ening its growth or retarding it progress
contrary to all true policy, which
would rather seek to confohdate our po
pulation than to spread it out thinly over
the vast expanse of Western wilderness,
where beyond the waters of the Atlantic
an intere.'l would grow up of its own, aa
wide apart from ours as the two countries
are wide in space.
An enlarged fpirrt of patriotism will,
however, not object to any thing while
the objedl is to better th; condition of
men—true ! but is it bettering the condi
tion of any men to take them from fixa
tions where every species of industry it
happily retributed, and turns to its full
account, and to set them down where from
circumstances of locality their faculties and
their labours are so little available, as
that according to, their own complaining
reprefentatioii " wretchedtiefs ar.d poverty
await them."
But wretchedneis and poverty would
no longer be their lot, If the Spaniards,
in witholding from the people of Ken
tucky and other western settlers, the free
navigation of the Mississippi, did not de
prive them of the natural market for the
produaions of their induilry. A right
they claim, and which they pafiionately
and clamoroully call upon the United
States to vindicate for tliem, with a threat
that jf refufed they will take rtdrefo into
their own hands.Scfore the call is complied with it may
not be improper to consider the nature of
the right, and the realonableneis of the
demand on the United States to assert it
on their behalf.
_ >&- No right to follow the course of
air, wherever the wind blows, has yet
been pretended, but to go with the wa
ters. wherever they run, is held by the
Church of Kentucky, to be jure divino,
& therefore rivers are a common right—
but leaving the spiritual doaors as unfafe
guides in things terreilrial, and looking
iirto the world, we shall find that things
arc there otherwise ordered—and that the
£>vereignty and exclusive use of a river
changes with the property of the country
through which it happens to run, and that
where the use is not exclufive,confent or
ttipiilation has been anderftood.
I cannot fay this point has been inva
riably agreed—the late Emperor, Joseph
the Second,contended for the navigation
of the Dutch part oi the Scljeldt, under
the laiv3 of God and nature, against hu
man convention—but the sovereigns of
Europe, boding no good to her own corps
from the allowance of fueh authority in
their affairs, obje&ed to thcr precedent—
the Emperor's plea Was over-ruled, and
it was adjudged that neither God nor na
ture should direst in the jiavigatlon of ri
sers, but that it was an affair belonging
to men or rather to kings.
Indeed it is difficult not to allow that
the common use, of different people, to
the fame waters, under whatever princi
ples, would produce nearly the fame un
certainty, and disorder in the police and
economy of a country, as it would in the
cafe of a road.
Under this impression of inconvenience
the life is seldom a mut property—The
Rhone the Poand the Rhine all take their
rife in Switzeiland—but the people of the
Cantons do not therefore traffic, in their
boats, along the whole course of these ri
vers to their issues in the Mediterranean,
tic Adriatic or the fens of Holland ?Do
the Germans puifue the Danube from
Suabia, through Hungary and Turkey,
into the Black sea, or the Spaniards fol
lowed down the Tagus to Lifoon "in Por
tugal.
No matter ! The people of Kentucky
have another count in their declaration—
the hole in the heavenly title is patched
by an earthly document, supplied by the
tieaty made with the king of Great-Bri
tain. I have not looked into it—but if as
I fufpeft his own title was not good, there
mull be a link fatally wanting in
the chain—and if he has given only a
common warranty they may go whittle
far the right.
2ndly. Having already remarked that
a state assumption of the Kentucky lands,
in particular, was in derogation of Con
tinental right—and that the premature
fettlemenf, occasioned thereby of such
difiant regions, operated greatly to the
bed interests of the United States, it
could hardly be expe&ed of them, even
were the title indisputable, that they
ftiould in complying with the call labour
at a point, which if gained would but the
more enhance the evils they already com
plained of—but as the title appears at
lead doubtful let us hope that the public
peace orgeneral prosperity may not bedif
turbed or put to hazafd by our contests
with the kingdom of Spain on that ac
count.—And that if the Kentuckians at
tempt alone to redress what they call a
grievance, they may,"being disowned by
the general government, be left alone to
the Consequences of their own preemp
tion and iniquity.
EXAMINER.
UNITED STATES.
NEW-YORK, March 7,
By the Akny, in 68 (lays from Cadiz,
we learn, That about the latter part of
November, Colonel Lindfey, by order of
the Commandant of Toulon, made a vi
gorous sortie from the fortrefi of Malgue
—but after exhibiting prodiges of valour,
was repulsed with gr«at lofj : The next
day, on the parade, he was bitterly re
proached by General O'Hara, for mil'con
duft; but coafcious of having done his.
duty as a brave officer, and unable to ex
ist under infamy, however unmerited, in
ftantlv (hot himfelf. O'Hara, to evince
the facility of the cnterprize, {allied out
next day, .with a force considerably infe
rior to the former; and, after a warm ac
tion, in which he loft an arm, was made
prisoner, with all his surviving army:
That the command then devolved upon
General O'Reilly, an Irilh officer in the
Spanift service : it is added, that General
O'Hara was permitted by the French
commander to have two eminent physici
ans from the garrison, and two oi his fa
vorite fer'vants, to attend him.
In addition to the foregoing, we learn,
by the arrival yellerday of Capt. Neil, in
the Morning Star, in 47 days from Car
tnagena : That Toulon was evacuated on
the 19th December, by the .Britifn, after
burning all the French (hips in the harbor,
excepting 2 of the line and 2 frigates,
which they to.ik away, together with a
number of Royalilts; that after the French
had got poireffion of the place, they or
dered all the remaining inhabitants into
the large square, and ihut them all with
out diltindlioa. -
By a letter from Albany, we learn, that
about live o'clock in the morning of the
Ift inflant, a lire broke out in the south
part of the city, which, after consuming
three houses, was happily suppressed. The
letter is silent as to the occalion of this
misfortune, which renders it more likely
to have arisen from accident, than the de
sign of evil disposed persons.
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 10.
Tht Naval Armament bill passed the
House this day—so to 39.
ihe National Convention of France,
have passed a dircree, granting to James
Thayer, a citizen of the United States,
the sum of 40,751 livres 8/4, as an indem
nification for losses sustained in confe
rence of his goods being damaged by a
(hot tired into a Gcnoefe vessel from one
of the French fortreffee—the decree also
provides for indemnifying rhe expence in
curred in repairing the Genoese vessel.
It is reported, that the intended expe
dition t& the Miffifippi, under General'
Clark, is given up.
We hear that the Democratic Society
of Norfolk,Vl;ginia, have elected Ja.ns
Madison Esq. an honorary member of
that institution.
The German republican Society of this
city, have addressed the Democratic
Society, to which address tliey have
subjoined the following resolutions
Reiolved, That it is the natural privi
lege of every free citizen, to give his fen
tjments on all public measures, and not
only on those which have operation, but
on those also that are pending.
Resolved, That this society highly ap
proves of the resolutions proposed to Con
gress, by James Madison, and that it en
tertains the mod pleasing presage of the
present majority of Congress.
Resolved, That as republicans, and
friends to universal liberty, that this soci
ety views with concern, the attempts which
are making to depress the French charac
ter in this country : That when we fee
men, insidiously endeavouring to produce
an abhorrence of a principle, beeaufc the
actors have gont to imagined excels, that
when we fee men, who, under the guise of
patriotism, entct into a defence, nay a
panegyric upon the perfidious, infofent,
and tyrannical conduit of Great Britain,
every freeman ought to express his abhor
rence of such dark policy, and declare,
that the true and unbiassed American,
has different sympathies.
By order of the Society,
Hknrt Kaumf.rer,
President of said Society.
\» Feb. 20th, 1794.
Democratic Society of Pennsylvania, held
in Philadelphia, March 6th, 1794.
Resolved unanirpoufly, That this Soci
ety heartily concur in the resolutions pro
posed by the German Republican Society,
and that they will i)nite with them in any
measures which fliall be judged proper to
promote the public welfare.
By order of the Society.
Blaik M'-Clrnrghh-i, Prelidcnt.
IMPORTANT!
Ext raft of a later from a Genthm/in in
Bojion tahisfriendinthis city,tinted March.
A veflel arrived here veflerday from Ber
muda, and brings intelligence of the release of
American veflels both there and at
vidence. Mr. H. who had a veflel carried
into the latter place, has news of her difchar ( ee
and iooo Dollars paid for detention. Mr.
T. who had a ihip carried into Bermuda (be
ing bound from the French W. IndLsto Eu
rope) has advice of her discharge.
THEATRE.
OBSERVER Ni>. VIII.
Mr. 1-cnno,
Friday and Saturday last the Comedy of
"Every one has bis fault" was performed at
the New-Theatre.—lt was gratifying to the
Observer, that the exhibition o£ Saturday
was much the best: this circauaftance itrong
ly evinces the industry of the performers—
The characters were lupported with propri
ety, elpecially those of Capt. Irwin, and La
dy Elk an or Irwin, by Mr. Fenncll and
Mrs. tVbit lock—A detail of particulars in fa
vor of any A<stor, would trespass too much
on your paper; but the Obfervcr thinks, the
Company have never done themfeiv.s so
much honor, as in this exhibition*
7he Observer takes this opportunity to
hint to A Subscriber, in your paper of
March 7th. that he had better read with more
attention, his remarks, before he animadverts
with such severity.
1 Has He ajjlrted that many of the Plavers
have not left Superiors, and some of them
not equals in Europe ? Or has he laid, such
was his information ? Whenever that writer,
or any other, will fairly attempt a correction
of the Observer, he will not only thank his
corre&or, but profit by i;,and if in an Error,
reform. If it is not ico much trouble, your
Subfci iber is requefled to look over what he
hnnfelf has written ; not with such eurfory
reading, as he fays he has the Observer's num
bers, and if he wishes to throw down his
Glove, the Observer will then accept his chal
lenge and go into a detail ol names and cha
racters of European and American theatric
periormers ; and give their relative merits,
and then call upon Mr. Subscriber, to meet
him with a refutation if lie dares. In the
mean time, the Observer means to continue
h>s remarks, upon the a<ftors at the New
Theatre, (if you will print them) without
cLangiug bis fif*natnre 9
CONGRESS.
House of Repreftntcit'rues.
Monday, March 10.
Mr. Sedgwick this day gave notice that
on Wednesday next he ftiould lubir.it to
the consideration of the Legislature certain
resolutions, the object of which would be
the means of defence required by our pre
sent lituation, and the funds which might
be required to defray the q^pence.
This notice wa6 introduced by Mr.
Sedgwick with the follow previous obfer-
vations
i He laid he had heretofore done him
fclr the honor to declare to the hotffe, that
in his opinion, it was the duty of the le
gislature as the guardians, of the public
lafety, at a time when Europe was con
ynlfed, and this country fufFering many
injuries, to provide for its Defence, and
as events might happen to avenge for its
injuries. the preservation of peace,
an object so neceflary to our political and
individual happiness might materially de
pend on the wisdom and firmnefs of the
legiflatnre in this refpeft.
That he had hoped and expefled some
plan for these important purposes would
before this time, have been presented
to Congress. That in his opinion, it
would be unpardonable to leave our coun
try in this naked and exposed liiuation,
during the approaching recess. That it
ought no longer to remain uncertain whe
ther ihe property and best interests of our
citizens were to remain in a situation to
be i.ifulted and injured with impunity.
He said he should forbear to give even
the outlines of the system which his own
mind had embraced, because he (hould al
ways be willing to prefer any other more
competent to the end. His only obje£k
at present, was to call the rcfledions of
gentlemen (o this important fubjett.
(To be Continued.)
Extrali of a It/ier from Ccipt. O'Bfien da-
ted at Algiers, Nov. 28.
The Dutch truce will expire in 12 days
from this date ; and if Van Trump is not
here in the limited time, away go the ro
vers in quest of Dutchmen.
The Danes, in my opinion, are on the
verge of Ic fi/ig their peace with Algiers
Shouldthefethree nations be baifled relative
to Algerine affairs, then the United States
might probably haveanopportunityof esta
blishing a peace ; but never on so favorable
terms as they might have had 3 years past
which ncg!e£t will cost them 4 millions,
together with In is of trade, insurance, ar
maments, ard peace redemptions. At all
events, the United States have no alterna
tive but f, fit out 12 of the be!l failing
vessels that can possibly be built: these
cru'zers to be properly appointed and
completely manned, for all depends on this
meafarc. At the fartlt! time the door for
obtaining a peace (hould be kept open,
and caie taken that the United States do
not becci te the dupe and buffoon of all
Europe.
C 3" Mv-n Mcidifon's Speech to be continued
to-morrow.
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING, March 10,
Will be performed,
A COMIC OPERA,
CALLED
ROBIN HOOD;
OR tHE
Sherwood Forejl.
Refi.;ents Ml the Forest.
Robin Hood, Mr. Darley
Little John, Mr. Wignell
Scarlet, Mr. I'r;ir,cij.
Bowman, Mr. Warrcll.
-J MefiVs. Bliffett, Warrell
Archers V jun. De Moulins, Lee,
_ J Bason, See. &c.
Mr. Darley, jun.
Miss. Willeras
{Mrs.Bates, Mrs.Cleveland
Mrs. Rowfon, Mrs. De
MarquejMrs. Finch, and
Miss. Rowfon.
Allen a Dale,
Stella
Visitors to the Forejl.
R uttek in, Mr. Bates
Friar Tuck Mr. Whit lock.
Edwin Mr. Marshall.
Clorinda Mrs. Warrell.
Annette Mrs. Marshall
Angelina Miss. Bioadhurft
With the original Overture) by Baum
garten.
The reft of the muOc and accompani
ments composed by Shield, with addi
tional airs by Mr. Reinagle.
With new Scenery, Drefles and Decora
tions.—The Scenes, painted by Mr.
Milbourn.
To which •will le added,
A FARCE, in two ABt, called
Who's the Dupe?
Doily Mr. Morrie.
Standford Mr. Moreton.
Granger Mr. Cleveland.
Oradus Mr. Harwood.
Miss. Doiley Mis. Francis
Charlotte Mrs. Marlhall.
Books of the Songs of the Opera
to be had at the Theatre. Price i-Bth of
a dollar.
Vivat KefpuhUca*
A Journeyman Bookbinder
WANTED,
Who can be recommended for his induilry
and sobriety—He may hear of employ by
Mr.Henry Kjs m merer, No. 24,
North Third-flreet.
March 8.
BOOKS.
CHOICE COLLECTION,
In the various branches of Literature, im
ported by the last arrivals from Europe,
for Sale at very reasonable prices, by
James Kennedy,
No. 26, Sfruce, between Front & id Streets,
Among which arc the following ;
CHAMBtRb'S Dift'onary of An* and Sci
ences, 5 Vols. Folio.
Henry's Bible and Commentary, 6 Vols. Folio.
Univcrf;l History, 7 Vols. Folio.
Churchill's Collection of Voyages, 6 Voli. Folio.
Palladio's Architecture,- belt Edition, 2 Vols.
Folio in one.
Rapio's History of England, with Tindal'tcon«
tinuation, 3 Vols, Folio.
Hume's History of ditto, with Smollet's ditto,
14 Vols. O&avo.
Malton's complete Trcatife of Perfpefiive, 2
Vols, in one.
Bruce'* Travels, London Edition, 5 Vols.
Clavigero's History of Mexico, 2 do. do.
Robertfon's History of Amcrica, 2 do. do.
Maclauiin's Newton's Philosophy, 410.
M'Knighi's Hatmony of the Gospels, do.
Lowman on the Revelations, do. »
Locke on the Epistles, do.
Led wick's Antiquities of Ireland, do.
Whitehuift's Tlieory 01 the Earth, do.
GUfa's Account of the Canary Iflandi, do.
The Annual Register, from its Commencement
lo 1791, inclusive, 34 Vols.
Nicbuh»'s Voyage 10 Arabia, 2 Vols, Ofiavo.
Bartram's Travels ihro' the Southern State*.
Some of the very latcft and best Collections ot
Voyages and Travels.
Crevieis Lives of the Roman Einpeiors to Vols.
O&avo.
L'AntiquUl cxpliquee par B. Montlaucon, tf
Tom. so.
Antiqui ci d'Egypte par Nordeo.
D flityinaite Hiilorique 9 Tom.
Theatre de Voltaire relie. 9 Tom.
Hiftoiie Romain pai Rollin, 16 Tom.
Oeuvres de Baiitau, cie Molieir, &c. with many
others < qua 11 y good. A Catalogue of which*
may be seen a: ihe pbcc of Saie.
He has also for Salt,
An excellent Hadley'» Quadrant.
A lew Acromatic Pocket Pcrfpcftive Glasses.
A Camera Ohfcura.
A capital German Flute, »ith 6 Keys, and ad
ditional joints.
And a tew elegant colouv'd Piints.
f
*d s tP!».l.viJpMa, March t, »794-
JUST
By MATHKW CAREY,
Nu. 118, Market free:,
Tin: FIKST VOLUME OF A NEW
£M OF
SYST
Modern- Geography:
OK. A
Geographical, Hijlorical, ana
Commercial Grammar;
Aril 'I'cftfnt state ot" the U'veral
nations of the world.
CONT AI"N I NC,
1. Th<* figures, motions, And distances of
the planets, accmding to the Newtonian sys
tem and the latest observations
2. general view of* the earth, considered
as a planet; with several ufefulgeographical
definitions and problems.
3 The grand divisions of the globe into
land and water, continents and illands.
4. The situation and extent of empires,
kingdoms, states, provinces and colonies.
5 Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, m*tals, minerals, natural curi
osities, Teas, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
aud lakes.
6. The birds and beads peculiar to end
country.
7. Observations on 'the changes that nave
Nbeen any where observed upon the face of na
ture since the most earjy periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations ; their
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
nues, taxes, naval and military strength.
9 Thejjenius, raanneis, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
10. Their language,learning,ar
manufactures, and commerce.
11. The chief cities, (Iruftures, ruins, and
artificial curiofitfes.
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, an
<iiil-nc<?3 of pri-'cipnl places from Philadelphi;
To which are^dded.
». A Geogruhicai Index, with the names
and places alp .abetically arranged.
2. A Table o( the Coins of all nations, and
their value in dollars and cents.
3. AChroNological Tasle of remarkable
events, from the creath-n totheprefe.it time.
By H'ILLIJM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Astronomical Patt corrected by
D r . Rittenhouse.
To which have b?en added,
The 'ate Discoveries of Dr. Herschell,
and o?he T eminent Astronomers
T!:e AMERICAN EDITION,
Corroded, Impoved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firft volume cnntaMis twenty-one Maps
and Chart!, belides two Altronomical Plates,
viz.
1. Mip of the world. 2. Chart of the world.
r Europe. 4. Asia. 5- Africa. 6. South-
America. 7. Cook's difcovenes. 8. Coun;
trie* round the north Pole. 9- Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway. 10. Seven United Pro
vinces. 11 Auftj ian, French ar.d Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. 13 Se£t ol war
in France. i 4* France divided intodepait
ments. i - Switzerland. :6. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
18 Tu key in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 20 Weft-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22. Ar
miUary sphere. 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
the pr,,fe, will be given the following Maps :
Kuflia in Euiope and Asia. .
2 Scotland.
2. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
China.
6 Hindoftan.
7 . United States.
g. British America.
S ate of Ne-.v-Hampfliire.
jO. State o! MalTachuretts.
ji. Slate of Connecticut.
j2. State of Rhode lfland.
,3 state ol New-York.
,4. State of New-Jei fey.
!j. State of Pennsylvania.
,6. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
20. State of North-Carolina.
21. Tenneflee Gmrrnment.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia.
TERMS.
j. This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
а. Subscribers pay for the prefect volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (j6 cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the fucreeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finiflied, at
the fame price as the firft.
4. The fubfeription wM be raised on the firft
day of June 1794. to fourteen dollars, ex
clnfive of binding.
5. Should any copies remain for sale alter the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
б. The names of the fubferibers will be pub
liftied as patrons of American literature,
arts, and sciences.
It is wholly unneceflary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American readers, that this edi
tion poffeiTes over every imported edition of
any fvftem of Geog aphy extant. The addi
tion of maps of the several ft ate , procured at
si very great expense, and Irom the bell ma
terials that are attainable, speaks such full
conviction on this fubjeft, that it would be
difrefpeft to the reader's understand ng to
suppose it requisite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
similar w®rk hav* such maps been ever intro
duced.
The emenJations and additions which »r«
made in this work,are innumerable,and occur
in every page. The public are referred to
the preface for a flight (ketch of a lew of
tbem.
The publilher takes the present opportu |
nity oi' returning his most fnicere thanks to
those refpe&able characters who have favored
him with documents for improving the maps
of several of the ftatrs. He requests a contl
nuance of their kindness; and hopes that such
public Spirited citizcns, as aie possessed ol si
milar documents, will favor him with their
assistance in perfecting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which h» has been favored, has excited
in hisbre\ft the warmed sentiments of grati
tude—fentiltients which time will not ejface.
He pledges himfelf to the citinens of the
United States, to spare neither pains nor ex
penfe to'ender the prrfent edition o(Guthrie s
Geography improved, deserving of their pa
tronage. waf,t
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. RICE,
No. 50, High-Street,
(Price One Dollar)
The Gentleman's
Pocket Library.
CONTAINING,
I. The Principles of Politeness.
а. The Economy of Human Life.
3. Rochefoucauld's Moral Reflexions.
4. Lavater's Aphorisms on Man.
5. The Polite Philosopher.
б. The way to Wealth, by Dr. Fnmklin.
7. Selecft Sentences.
8. Detached Sentences,
9 . Old Italian, Spanilh and English Pro
verbs.
10. A Tablet of Memory.
March 3.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND l-OR SAI, E PY
M.Carey,No. 118,Higb-Jreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the lejl sense in the -world.
THIS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all claffcs of people, merchan s, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
woik acnuired, that it has palled th'O ihiec im
preflionsin the eailern states, and many houlc.
holders deem it so ufclul as tn purchase a copy
for every adult in theii families. Pat c e 2s.
February 4. dtf
"War Department.
January 30 th 1794.
Information is hereby *ivcn the
military invalids of the United States,lhat the
fuins to which they are entitled (or fix months
of theit annual pension, from the founh day of
September 1793, and which will become due
011 the sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Commilfioners of the Loans
within the Rates refpeftivcly, under the usual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
must be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpeftive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whofc pension thev may claim.
By command of the Prrfid nt
of the United S-a'r«,
Sectetary oj IVar.
The printers in the refpe£tive dates are
requested <o publith the above in iheir newfpa
pcrs for the space of two months,
January 30.
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortment of
SILVER 13 PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY & fne CUTLERY,
Which they will dispose of on the molt rea
sonable terms. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and iilver
way, done as usual.
December 24,
AVIS.
LE habitant infortunes de la Colonic Franyaife
dc St. Dominguc qui dans I'incendie du
Cap font venus cherchcr un afile dans les Etats
Uni« font tnformes que la Republique leur ac
cotde un paflage pour F'ance. lis font invites
en consequence a fc presenter a eel effet d'ici a
huit jours chez les Consuls & agens de la Re
publique dans les differc nts Ports des Etats Urns.
A Phi l ade lphi e, le io Vcotofr— l'an ad de
la Republique une & iadivifible.
(28 Fcvrier, 1794. vtewxJlile)
Le Miniftre P»enipotentiare dc la Republique
Francaife. %
JH. FAUCHET.
The edito r s of new/papers in the United Stdtes are
requcjled to insert the above notice in their paper. 8
(£/• This Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement —The Stibfcription
encreafes daily—Adverting Favors are
foliated —These conJUtute an ejjuntial Item
in dimini/hinfr the Dibit Jidi oj t\»: Account,
JuJl Imported,
From London, Dublin, and Glasgow,
And now opening for sale,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Marht-Jlrut,
A Large a'id Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Ilegitter for I 792
European Magazine for the fir ft si*
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of theHomanEmpire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols *
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty,a collection of e flays
Varieof Prussia s works
Calm ohferver—by Mackintolh
RuiTell's ancient and modern Europe
Lanshorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and BrifTon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagafear
Town feud's travels in Spain
TaflVs Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of Buffo n
Berwick's hilloiy of quadrupeds
Buifoh abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inlard navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols. .
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
linlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Netker on executive power
Kisses of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engra\ings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immaterially
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
QJiandon's life of Voltaire
De Noil's travels
Franklin's life and works
G ozier's description of China
Murohy's translation of Tacitas
Godwin on pol tical justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's sketches of the history of mnn
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Bemgnus
Mawe's gardener'"; di&ionary
Noble's memoir l ? of the Cromwell Umuy
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral fentimenti
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id. & Mid.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, callsd
man
Walln on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruflia,Polaod,&c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Lite of Lord Chatham
MaMet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox "love
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's diflertation<s
London pr ast ice of physic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
H. KNOX,
dim
mwSrftf
FOR SALE,
By MATHFW CAREY, No. 118.
Market-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery
Dcfigned to exhibit, ill a new point of view,
its cffc&s on morals, indujhy,and the pc4ie of
ociety. Some fa£U and calculations arc offered
to prove the labor of freemen to be much more
prcdudive than that ot Jlaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
libor ; and hence the nrceffjry conclusion, thbt
slavery is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cent*.
February if.
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchants Coffee-Houfe of this
City :- A -
RtNPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public »« general, lhat he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippeu-Street, be
tween Third and Fourth-Strcris, at the Houfo
formerly occupied by Mr. Timraoni, which
has lately been gieatly improved, and ;s now
very coinmodious ; where he has lurnifhcd him
fclt with the best of LIQUORS, ami will lur
nifh a TABLE for Parties, with the bell pavi
lions the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
From his long experience in
ortcft noticr.
this line of bufnicft, he flatters himfelf he (hall
be able to give fatisla&iou to all who may please
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 39,1794*
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, dedu3ing 15 P er Cent, from
the Pr'rzes—this Lottery confijls of
38,000 Tickets, in -which there are
■4>539 Prices and 23,461 Blanks,
being clout one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Direftorsof the Society far eftabiifhtng
Ufrful Manufactures, having FeColved to
ere& LOTTERI'fcS lor iaifm»» One Hu ndr fi>
Thousand Dol lap. s, agreeably to an Ast <jf
the Legiflaturc ol the State ot New-Jcrfcy, h-vc
appointed the following persons 10 superintend
and direst the drawing of the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rutus King, Herman Le Roy, James
Wat-son, Richard Hairifon, Abijali Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city ot Ncw-Y<»ik—*•'
Thonias Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthtw M'Coa
nel and Andrew Bayard, ol the city of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, t.fq.
Eltas Boudinot, General El as Dayton, Jamr,s
Paikcr, John Bayard, Post -r Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton, jolhua M. Wallace, Joseph
Bloomfield, and Eltfha Bondinot, of N w-Jef
fev, who offe» the following Stheme el a Lot
tery, and pledge themfelvrs to the public, that
they will tak< every assurance and precaution in
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from tinae to time, as received, into
the Banks at New-Yovk and Philadelphia, to
remain for the purpofeof paving Priz s, whioh
shall be immediately discharged by a check
upon one of the Banks.
SCHEME:.
i Prize of 20,000 Dollars is 20,000
1
3
5
10
20
ICO
3 co
xcoo
ic,ooo
5.000
8,000
I,CCO
500
100
5°
20
*5
12
3000
3000
8100
14,.539
23,461 Blauks. FiHl drawn number, 2,000
Laddfawn number, 2,000
38.000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266 000
The drawing wiil commence, under the in
fpedtion of a Committee of the Superintenda»ts,
as focua as the Tickets are fold«ot which timely
notice will begiven.
The Superintendants have appointed Jdhn N.
Cumming, of Newark, Jacob R. Hardenberp r
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Khea, of
Tienton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample security for discharging the
trust repofrdMn them.
In order to fecurethe pnnftual payment
of the Prizes, the Supcrintendantsof the Lottery
have directed that the Managers shall each enter
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four fufficient
fecunti s, to per form their inftruttions, the fub
ftaoce of which is
I. That whenever cither of the Managers
(hall receive the fur| of Three Hundred Dollars,
he {ball immdiatcly place thefame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, 10 the
ciedic of the Governor of the Society, and such
of the Superintendants as 1 ve in the city whwe
the monies are placed, to remain there until the
Lottery is drawn, for the payment of the Prizes.
11. The Managers to take fufficient f»*cunty
for any Tickets-they may trust, oiherwife to b«
tcfponnblc for them.
111. To kifp regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ftatts of which (hall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Pateifon, January 1, 1794
On application to either of the above gentle
men, information will be given where tickets
may be had.
February 24.
Stock Brokers Office,
No." 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE SaWcriber intending to confine himfelf
to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b.gs leare to of
ft r his fenicesto his friends and others, in the
line of a S'.odk Broker. Those who reay please
to favor inm with their business, in, y deoend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the urnaoft fide
lity and ditpaich.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of ihe United State:, will he ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKFR.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 5,
South Fourtk-Stieet.
ic,ooo
io,odo
so,ooo
ic,coo
If,ooo
10,000
15 coo
20.000
30,000
36,000
81.000
262,000
tawtf.