!A N D
EV E NI N G A D VERT I S E R.
[No. 145 of Vol. V-] Saturday, May 51, 1754. [Whole No. ,541.J
JAMAICA RUM,
LANDING at Hamilton's wharf, above
the Drawbridge. out of tlie lliip HaCCKvs
Cept. VANNEMAN, flout J/jmmCa t
FOR SALE BY
PETER BLIGHT.
May 16 <*
'Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY and FRENCH
BURR STONES,
FOR SALE BY
Gurney and Smith.
May 14. d
REMAINING
Of THE
Ship India's Cargo,
FROM
BENGAL.
A fraall aiTortment of
BALE GOODS,
250 bags COTTON of" gpod quality, which
would probably make an excellent remit
tance to Europe, and a
Quantity ot PEPPER
For Sale by
Mordecai Lewis,
JVbo has also to dispose of
Barce'o a H.md'fs. in boxes,
v Holland Gin in cases,
Soiichopg, flyftjp, and Tonkay Tea, J
A quantity us Brimstone, Sec.
Mav 1 o d^v/
Agreeably to notice, a
of the Sub fen hers to the Ait ies o
- Agreement of the Columbian Society, was
this day held at Mr. Richaidea's, for the poi.
;?of of chuting Managers, &c. when the ol
io wing per fins vverp c>olen :
Robert Morris, President.
MANAGERS.
James Greenleaf
~ jFrdST-zri.T , -J
John Nicbojbn
Caleb Low ties y
Thomas F/izJim wis.
* James IVilfon,
F. A, Mabfenbergy
Walter Stew a > /,
John Hall,
Richard SoderjlrotJi,
Nathaniel IV, Applet on.
Treasurer.
Garrett Cotttinger.
*7 1
Congress of the United States,
In Senate, Tuefaay May iyh, 1794.
ORDERED, that Rufoi Putnam, Mai.a,-
(ah Cutlet, Robert Oliver and Griffin
Green, do, upon ihe third Moiid.av.oi-'Decem
ber next, (he,i- eMite to Senate, whv i"o
much of th jraats of land to iliem the said
Manaflah Cutler, Robert
Oliver ami Griffin Green, purfyant to an Ast
enjitl. d "An ast authorizing the grant and
coi,veyajj.ee of certain la. ds to the Ohio Com
paiiy ot" afTbciate-," Jhall noc he declared
void, as mav interfere with and be fiifficient
to fat I.sly i!i f claims of the French settlers
at QaMiopolis.
Ordered, that the delivery of a copv of
the above order to Rti r us P'.tnam, ManafTali
Cutter, Robert Oliver, or G„ffi„ Green, and
the ? übl,cation of the fame, one ,110111b, in
one ol ihe Gazettes printed in (his. City, (hall
l>." deemed fuffifcient notice rhceof
Extract from the Journals of Senate.
Attest,
SAM. A. OTIS, secretary.
- Mav '4. t ».
■FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, fro. 1,8,
Maijset-Street,
An EiFay on Slavery,
Drfigned to exhibit in a new point of view
it, effeq, on in-iujlry, and .he frau of
Jocteiy. Some faffs 'and calculations are offered
to prove the labor offreemen to be murh more
(xoJutlive than that ol /laves ; that commits a,,-
rich, poWerlul and i„ proportion as the
people enjoy ihe fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the n.celTaiy conclusion, that '
flavcry is impolitic as well as unjujl. :
Price 25 Cents. dtf 1
February i*>. t
Advertisement.
THE relations Of Mr Thomas Curtis,for- '
marly of Ellicott-j Upper Mil]., and lately of
the City ol \Va(h.ngton v deceared, are desir
ed to apply and have his affairs fettled.
City oi Wafliington, April 22, 1764.
M ' 5 m&th4\r
For Sale or Charter,
s jiiPii> p ° L°ly,
Burthen 1000 barrels,
stiL. is a. luuncli f-ll failing new velT-I,weil
sou ra, and ready lor any voyage, either tu
Ejrope, or th Well Indies. For terms ap
ply to
DEBLOIS & BRECK.
At their flare, between Wa nut and Cheiiiut
fireet wharves.
May 23 d
Midwifery.
Dr. Price, Fellow of the Anti
quarian Society, and of Jesus College in tne
Univeility ol Oxford, <*ic. &c. formerly lec
tu>e/ 011 Midwifery in London, wj'J com*
liience early in the Antrum, a comp>ete
Course of Lectures,
on Ink
Theory & praciice of Midwifery
" ( li lib the laiejl Improvements J
And o«i the various LMealcs ir.ci»le«>t to Wo
men and Clii/dicn; ol which timely nonce
will be given.
May 26 3t
Cincinnati of Pennsylvania,
Mav 2d, i 794
A STATED meeting of the itandin 3 Com
mittee will h- held on Monday evoii»i»g next
at 7 o'clock at the Concftogue waggon. Ar-\
ra igeiiieuts for tlic4tr» Ju*y being nect/fory to
be so med, the members are Kcqucfted"*punc
tually to attend.
JOSEPH HOWELL,
d4t 'Secretary pro Tern.
—■ —" j
ADVERTISEMENT.
LETTERS on the l'ubjedl of the Wafli
ington Lottery, being by iniftake repeatedly |
audrelicd to the Commilfioncfs for the City 1
of Washington, * J
* erions cpneeraed are hereby infprmv.-d, I
~rtrax <tii :ucn m-juiu vz tin:.. r to \t . ~i
D.-alcinsjun. of Wafmngton, or to the Sub—
fcriber. The commUiicmers never having
contemplated any further concern in tins
bu line Is, than in their ailent to receive the
bonds and approve the names of he mana
gers. The prizes liave been paid and are
payingon demand by W. Deakins, Wash
ington, Peter Oilman, Bolton, and by the
Sjbfcriber.
for the Lottery A 7 o. ;, the securities al
ready given will be retained by the commit'
[ (toners, or transferred ■by them at their
optioa to the Bank of Columbia ; and the
Commifiioners will be consulted refpedhng
a judicious and equitable disposition of the i
hojfes to be built thereby ; their treasury or i
the Bank of Columbia will receive the mc- I
ney intended for the National University, !
aiid theyv ill be rjornfuited in the nomination
of the 14 managers; but all the rel'ponfibility
respecting the general disposition of ihe tic
kets, and payment of prizes, will reft as
in the Hotel ixjttery, on the persons whole
names are and maybe hereafter publilhedas
affiitantsto forward this bulinefs witli
S. BLODGEJ.
PhilatJ. May 28, d—3U
Morris Academy.
THIS inftituiion i; .iow open for 11 e recep
tion ol students under the immediate care of
Mr. Caleb Ruflel), whose abilities as a i in-
Rruftor, and attachment to tile bufinefshave
long been known and approved. He has un
der him the bed afiiftmts 111 the different
.branches—The (cholars are taught the
glifh, French, La,in, and Gr.-ek lanjniaiLi
Pubbc-Speaking, Writing, Arithmetic,' GsZ
graphy, Aftfdnomy, and the various branch
es of the Mathematics. The healrhv firtra
t on of this place is furh as to recommanrt u
to those, who wt(h to have their ckildrei* in
the country. Boaidinf, wafting,
i»:c. will be provided 111 good f'amilie;,"ai <f
the morals of the scholars carefully attended
10.
The price including tuition, firewood, & c .
eexclufiv-c of the French language) will not
xcecd thirty pounds proclamation money per
annum) an addition oUhree dollars per quar
ter will be made to such scholars who are
tEught the French language. The Dmftors
at edetrrmined to pay fucb attention to this
institution, as will render it refpeilable and
afeful.
gabriei. H. FORD, -)
TIMOTHY JOHNS, jun.C D,reefs.
NATHAN FORD, C
Morrillown, Mavis, 179^
di w.—-w2m.
Excellent CLARET,
In iiogihcads onrt hi cases oi 50 ooulcs each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine
, madeira,
I In hogibcad# and quartet eafks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
N'o. 111, ijpucTi Front Itreet.
I J» n - t, 17Q4- dtf
HORS E a -
All tlionv VVechter, living in Third ftrtel
near Callowiiiii Itreet, at the f:gn of the
Pcnniylvania Arms No. 214,
V HAS I'OR SALE,
One Pair
Bright Bay Horses,
6 years old, upwards of 15 hands high—
| and one pair Clielbut Brown with blazes, 4
I years Old, about 15 hands high. The terms
, will be made known, by applying to Mr.
Wechter.
Jult Imported,
tn Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
u '> *"<1 no-zu landing at
Rujjiil j wharf,
HiiMP,
BAR 1 ROM,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
KiVtNS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
Aid tor Me at the (tores of the fubfetiber in
W-Jiju» {{>eer, 22.
John Donnaldfon.
MADEIiIA, I
SHERI{y ( j
lusbon, & | U INES of the firft < J ualit - v
TENERtFFEJ
Old Jamaica Spi it, Antigua and Weftlndia
Rum.
Coniac, French and Peach Brandies
Claret a/rd Port Wine of a Ajperior quality
in cases. 17
r
Philadelphia Porter, in Calks and Bottles.
London do. in do. do.
Philadelphia Ale and Beer in do. do.
I.ondon do. in do. do. and
Cyder :n barrel, and bottle-, preparedforex
portation or n r e,
FOR SALE BY
Benjamin W- Moris,
The comer of Dock and Pear Jlreets,
Were be has provioed luitable itores and
vaults, for the reception of
WINE S, &c.
Which lie pn.pofes to itore or dispose of on
commiflion
Caprainsof veflels and o'hers fuppjjrdwith
any of the abovcL;pUOr t S bottbd, and/ea
Itores in /(ene al put up.
Ma >' 9 ' tn&fzm
It is Requeued,
TH AT no person wi.i fupply.aUy articles
for rheufeof the New Theaire, wahont »n
order ,n writing, finned by ourfrlves, or Sam
uel A iderfon, f .r v,s.
UTGNELL & REINAGIF.
M -\v go- dtf.
All persons -who have any dc
rnand (lpoii the New Theatre, are leqtieft
ed to fend ih their accounts to No, 204, in
Arch It ret r, near Eighth street, as form' as
convenient;
WIGNELL & REINAGLE.
May drf.
Citizen Sans Culottes
AND
Mr. Aristocrat in Chara&eriftic
PRESSES will make tbeir appearance in
Cherry Alley at 8 o'clock this evening for
the Iff ft time.
["May 30 ' *d ■ t
To the Ele&ars of the city and
county of Philadelphia.
GiNTtEMEN,
THIS beui(j{ the last year of the prrfert
Sheriff's time in office. I take the l-.ber
ty to offer .mvfelf a Candidate, "and
votir votes and intercds ill my favor, to plare
me on the re-u-n at the next general EleA on,
as his fnccelTor for said office; in doing which,
you will confer an obligation that will be
gratefully remembered, by
Your mod obedient,
and humble fervanr,
JOHN BAKER.
May 3. estf. |
From the Eagle.
Ah- E X T R A C T.
> M"/'■r nmicur trifiitiam et met at
TracLim - -- --
port ure in venter.
Since now the tuneful Sifters deign,
So often woo'd, to greet my lyre,
I 11 give the wines all care and pain,
Blelt in my bottle, friend and fire,
Jvo cares (hall vex, nor fears contro'ul,
t My peaceful heart and tranquil foul.
' IndiJerent I how parties dance—
I low Genet foams, or IVilcocts fcravrls
What capers now are cut in France
VViiat hairbrain'd fpouter Hands 01
falls—
■ Blow 'mgh—blow low, it matters not,
I I me > how fadions storm a groat.
' Why need the bustling world's lhange din
Affright the pauper, or his muse ;
Since lure, tho'Jittle he may win,
Wno nothing owns, can nothing lose ;
At worlt, remain inflatu quo,
Like me, and scrawl an ode or so.
Now royalty's gay bloiToms blight-
Alas ! and many a courtier lobs ;
Yet, i!—whatever is, it right.
Why rail at and mobs—
Scowl at ca ira's frantic strain *
And d n Equality and Paine ?
i he lage, though diicord's comets blaze,
And giddy lubjects spurn at laws;
Kings bleed, and ieuds a nation craze,
With calmness views one natural cause;
No trivial object turns his eye,
Nor imall clouds gloom his genial Iky.
Be flow (fays one, well known by fame)
To judge the parties of the day:
Nor rashly praise, nor rafnly blame,
The diiferent adtors in the fray.
When date convulsions lalt so lo'ng,
FnivJifk-s «rp v-hnl'v r."<Tht .„ rr ,,,
Go, fee half Europe by "the ears,
_ And Gallia's topsy-turvy plan
Sink peers to dirt—raise dirt to peers
And term the inverCon rights of man:
Where now no politicians run,
But those who plead witli club and gun.
Men IcJng enflav'd, when once released,
ill dance a little in their glee;
And when the car of state they seize,
4 They re apt to ride and drive too free ;
And Gallia's genius fad complains,
That Phaetons hold whip and reins.
So fortune's windmill whirls, and mull
Some e'er will ride, some trudge on foot -•
Rogues rule, while hone/ly in diilt
f!"" sweat, and pay those rogues to boot:
\\ hile all the flatterer Hrpe can fay,
Js ~" Every dog will have his day."
1 his ofFer'd to the muses view,
More taught by nature than by book,
She lisp d man s rights, however few,
He'll get enough, by hook or crook ;
And SyJvia thinks him apt to be,
Even when in chains, by far too Free.
How oft is man untimely brave,
How often timorously cool ;
How oft a tyrant, or a fljve,
How oft a madman or a fool!
No decent medium keeps him ftiU,
He either must adore, or kill.
Yet Louis fleeps'within hk tomb,
Nor art nor arms can call back fate;
Then warriors, turn, avert the doom
Of Poland's monarch, mjife too laic,
Unhappy Prince! unhappy fend !
Oj>frej} by a superior hand !
For Rnffia's Empress little heeds
The muffy rules of wrong or right ;
Kate flill can manage court intrigues.
Or, it 'lis rteceffary, fight; '
Like mad Bellona mher car,
Cry—havoc ! to her dogs cf war.
O ! when will peace from heaven descend,
ru fr' an S°d of war controul,
W :th smiles her olive wand extend,
And spread its Hiade from pole to pole,
Lufti the leud clarion's shrill alarms,
The bifs of feuds —and din of arws !
For the Gazette of the United Si Met.
Mr. Fenno,
On a motion made and seconded in a
Democratic Society in behalf of Mr. B.
requeuing permiilion to (ill his balloon ajAt «hrainey-top of the Hall during a
waim debate; one member in opposition
to this motion, alked, Where is your e
quality, and where are your levelling prin
ciples, Citizens, that you would thus aid
a Jlighty, over-bearing attempt to soar a
bovc the People ? I alfert that an at
tempt to promote the elevation of an in
dividual above the multitude, mult be
ariftocratir, or I do not understand the
meaning of the word. Moreover, Citi
zens, 1 am by no means convinced that
the measure would be fafc. We have ne
ver heard of the force or effect of Demo
cratic Gaz, when tied up in a bag. The
balloon ma,y burst and ruin poor Citizen
B. Nay, worse than all this—it may
mount with velocity before the fafpend
ing or depending cords can be detached
from the Hall, and taking us all up to
the clouds along with Citizen B. we may
Lord knows where.
No, Citizens, tilth ' <we have frequently
met to propose high-flying, and dangerous
project for others, I never have uniLrjlood
that we were to trujl our own carcases in
the voyage.
This ft ruck the members so forcibly,
that the motion palled in the negative,
by ah unanimous vote.
Mr. B. will now be obliged to look
elsewhere for his gaz—or the expecta
tions of the public will again be disap
pointed, and none more so, than those of
your humble servant—
NOOLLAB.
Foreign Intelligence.
LONDON, April i.
The Cordeliers have resolved to cele
brate a civic feftival, in cafe Hebert, Mo
moro, Ronfin, and Vincent, should be
acquitted.
In consequence of the tinufual number
of perfuns now confined in Lancaster goal
for debt, Lord Kenyon, who is now on
that circuit, much to hie honor,
an order of court—
" That if any creditor who may have
" arrested the body of his debtor, previ
" oua to or during the term preceeding
" the Assizes—and does not declare a
" gainit within three days previous to the
" Affixes—then fitch priloners (hall be dif-
cnargeu nuiti the lafu arFCIUUU action.* 7
It would be an inestimable benefit to
the commercial part of this country if
the fame rule were generally extended.
At a country meeting at Edinburgh,
held on the 24th inltant, it was agreed,
that the country should raise volunteer
troops of fencible cavalry, confufTng of
not lrfa than jo nor more than 80 men
each troop, to serve only during the war,
and within the kingdom ; and a committee
was appointed to conduit the business.
The Kent fubfeription, towards defray
ing the expence of embodying the militia,
amounts to near 7000!.
A P"I 3-
The Brufftls Gazette has at length an
nounced the defeSion of the King of
Prussia from the Grand Federal Alliance
againlt France !
_ Mr. Erpe, a watchmaker ofCaftle Do
nington, was tried before Baron Thomp
son, at the late Leicester allizes, upon a
charge of uttering seditious words. The
witnesses for the prosecution were Samuel
Baker, an exciftman, and William Hear
fon, a publican, both of whom had liften
edto the conversation of Mr. Erpe, and
had been instigated to inform by an afloci
ation at Caftlc Donington.
The Jury, after retiring f6r about
twenty minutes, returned with a verdict,
Guilty of speaking the words, but not
with the seditious intent." His Lord
ffiip r;fufed to accept that verdia, and
the Jury, after retiring again, in ten mi
nutes brought in another verdidt of " Guil
ty of speaking the words, but not with
an intent to disturb government this
was rejeSed by the court. The Ju
ry then brought in a general verdict,
" Not Guilty," but being repeatedly in
tenogat-d by his Lordship, an d feme of
the officers of the court, whether they
were unanimous, and one of the jury ap
pearing to hesitate, they were sent back
once more. The)- however,, returned a
fourth t.we, and brought in a general ver
j°j NOT GUILT Y I which was re
corded.
FROM THE EAST INDIES.
Yelterday morning Ca>pt. William Fair.
of ~ heT Oil"" Charlotte Paeket,
came to the India-House, with the pleas-
ing intelligence of her fafe arrival at Fal
mouth.
Arrangements in the Supretrie Council of
1 Calcutta.
The Marquis Cornwallis having, in a
letter from Madras, declared his religuti
on of the Governor General, a ipecial
meeting of the Supreme council at Cal
cutta, was held on the 28th of October,
at which Sir John Shore, took the oaths
and his feat as Governor General, with
the usual forms,
Major-General Sir Rabert Aberrrom
bie, at the fame time, took his feat a£
1 the board as commander in chief of the
company's forces in India ; and Mr.
Graham resumed the office he had former
ly held of ailing President to the board
of revenue.
Death of the Nabob of Bengal.
The Nabob Mobaric U1 Dowla, Na
bob of Bengal, departed this life 011 the
6th of September.
The Nabob U1 Mulk, his eldest foil, is
declared his fitcceffor.
The moil flattering accounts are receive
ed of the prosperous Itate of the Compa
ny's affairs in general; and that the utmost
harmony fublifts between the Britilh go
vernment and the native powers of India.
The French have, however, been but
too fuccefsful in their depredations on the
country trading vessels, and are said to
have made some very rich captures,
PARIS, March 27.
Letters from Holland announce', that
advicts from the Cape of Good Hope
have brought the news of the taking of
Batavia by the French.
At the trial of the conspirators one
only, Laboureau, was acquitted. As
soon as he was liberated, the President of
the Tribune embraced him, and placed
him at his fide, while the hall resounded
with applauses. When the sentences were
pronounced, Anacharfis Clootz was the
only one who addressed the auditors.
He appealed to the human race, wiofe 1
con (last orator he had been. Ronfin
made an attemp to speak, but wa's carried
off with the rell.
Madame Quetiueau declared lleifelf
pregnant.
rtic compfratofs, Wtie 11 carr:ecfbac£ tO
the Conciergerie, demanded a gallon of
wine to be divided among them, and some
soup. About nine, yelterday morning,
they were conveyed in three carts to the
place of execution. Never (fays the Edi
tor of the Annales Patriotique) did a
fpe&acle attract such a croud, such an in
finite number of During the
whole way along, hands were clapped,
and hats tossed in the air, am id ft the cry
of " Live the Republic." Insensible to
the indignation manifefted against them,
they passed along, and, when at the foot
of thefcaffold, they embraced each other.
Hebert, vulgarly entitled father Duchefne
was guillotined the last, and his head
was displayed to the people. At this
fight, the clapping of hands and shouts
of the fpedtators were accompanied by
the cry of " Live the Republic."
The Cordeliers, in their fitting of the
fame day, announced, that provisions
were every where abundant, and the late
scarcity was merely a criminal contrivance.
The eating houses were extremely well
supplied, and indeed feafted their custom
ers too well. It was therefore proposed,
that the keepers of the ordinaries should
supply their guests with no other rcfrelh
ment than soup, bouille, and a cutlet.
In the bill of the new maximum, poll
ed up on the 23d inft. Beef is fixed at 16
sous, veal at 18, mutton at 16, frefh pork
at 18, lard at 20, and Bayonne hams at
35 sous per pound ; butter of the belt
quality at 3 2 sous, Dutch cheese at 16 3-4-
per pound ; frefh eggs at 50 sous the do
zen, and the pint of milk 7 sous.
Among those who have been recently
guillotined afe the three brothers Pou
ganne de Viches, Rouganne de Barodines,
and Rouganne de Bellcbat; the two bro.
thers Marquis and Count de Balleroy
one of them a Lieutenant-General, the
other a Marchal de Camp; the conftitu.
Uonal Bishop of Autun ; Gouties, Ex-
Preside.it of the Constituent Affcmbly ;
Caftel de la Grange, formerly one of
Monfieurs body guards; the Ex-Vicar
r itp , ,de J ouvc > a" Admi
ral ; J. B de Vak.,3, formedy a Captain
Pnrt i g rV°L Wr ; re g' ment i Moulin,
Post-master of Cherbourg ; Porton, R ec .
tor of Veaux, $ c .
The number of prisoners amounts to
6622. Among thcfe are the Notaries
Ghauron and Sabourdin ; Chovart, a Fi
nancier; Antoinette Boaret Gumal-di-
Montmorin ; Anger, a Rector ; Buiflon,
Agent to the Duke of York ; De Ben
niere, Vicar de Chaillot; Chefneaux, Pre
sident of the Cordeliers ; Barois, a Book
seller ; M. de Champcenits, son of the
late Governor of the Thuilieriea; 1/
Huiler, National Agent of the Depart
ment of Paris,
HOUSE of COMMONS, April 3.
RETURNS.
Major Maitland faid,he rose under some
expectation that Mr. Pitt would recede
from the opinion lie firll entertained, and
concur in the motion he was about to
submit.
It was not his intention, he said, to
bring forward again any proposition for
printing the returns of the killed and
wounded, and the extracts of the gazettes
relating to the war, as in his ensuing mo
tion on the general conduct of the cam
paign, he fliould be authorised to avail
himfelf fully of those documents in their
present (late, but the returns of our lofies
of stores and ammunition at Dunkirk and
Toulon were accounts of a different de-,
fcription, and which it was.highly impor
tant to the full investigation of the fubjedi
that he (hould poflefs; though he declin
ed bringing forward the two fir ft fubje&s,
he yet thought that t,hofe motions
were very improperly rejected, whether
hs regarded them in a general view,
or as precedents, in both of which
cases, he disclaimed all personal influ
ence, as to him they would be entirely
ufelefsou this oceafion, however neccflary
thev might be to the general infoimation
of the House. Ke could not, at the fame
time, forbear expressing his aftonilhnient
that they should have been refufed by mi
nisters in opposition to the general feeling
of the House and country j and whsn, in
fadt, as to the firlt, it was known by the
return of the killed and wounded, that the
number was much smaller than what the
public generally conceived, for which he
was now about to' move. The returns
would be to him more necefiary rs he ex
pected to hear his motion opposed by as
sertion and declamation, instead of argu
rngnt and fart In this view, therefore.
they would be highly important, and could
not be refnfed unless it was contended,
that the House and country have not a
right to be informed of every circumflance
relating to the operations of the armies
they employ ; they became also more ne
ceflary, when- it is recollected that the
Gazette account of thelofles of the retreat
from Dunkirk had been declared errone
ous in the instance of the number of guns
left behind by the very officer (Sir James
Murray) who wrote that account. He
profeffed himfelf at a loss to suggest any
ground of opposition to the motion, as the
enemy could receive no information from
the difclofurr, which could only apprise
the House and the country of tliofe fadts
with which the enemy had been long ac
quainted.
From this view of the fubjeft be repeat
ed his hopes that his motion would receive
no opposition, and that Mr. Pitt would
retraCt the opinion of it which he had be
fore exprefled.
He concluded by moving, " That an
humble address be presented to his majesty
lequefting that he would give directions
that there be laid before the House returns
of the number of guns and military stores
left at Dnnkirk and 1 oulon refpeCHvelv,
on the retreat of the British forces from
those places."
Mr. Pitt declared himfelf, on reconsi
deration, confirmed in the opinion he for
merly exprefTed on this fubjea, and by no
means mclinrd to retratt it. What fell
from the Hon. Gentleman, had rather
ttrengthened his former opinion, as he had
confeffed that it would be ufelef# to him
ir the two firft accounts were printed ; if
any compromise, therefore, were to take
place, he e*peded it would be br an ac
cession of numbers tohisf.de, rather than
any detection from it.
He objeaed to printing the return of ■
kdled and wounded, as being fuperflnous, i
aru, as unwise, by llifhifmg the knowledg-e
of the inevitable evils of war, when no ]
good consequence would arise from it It ,
was true, in this cafe, the calamities were ,
In" than were apprehended ; but s
as he fliould not have felt his opinion of ,
the war, °r hia reflation to carry it on, «
at ail shaken from any degree of those in- ,
separable evils, he thought it not fair to
avail hirafelf of tlie contrary arguing,
when; from accidental citcumftances it
told in his favour.
He obje&ed to printing rhe extra&s of
the Gazettes, because it would, prima fa
cie, indicate a ground of suspicion as p re .
paratory to a general inquiry into the cir
cumflances of the whcrfe campaign) and
this, he contended, would lead -the Hcmf
to an extent and detail of inquiry, of which
they could not be apprized, and as nofitf.
picion whatever in fad existed, he would
not consent to a measure which implied
that it did.
Whatever opinion the hon. Gentleman
had adopted concerning the British troops
he himfelf had no hesitation to declare
that with the single exception of the
of Dunkirk, they had <b6en as fucceijful
as they had been brave in every conftift
in which they had been engaged. Guns
colours, and stores, he said, would be a>
bad materials for the declamation which
was apprehended as for argument. The
merits of the campaign wpuld not bt de
fended on the ground that we had taken
or loft, more or less of these articles. The
campaign proved fuccefsful from the im
proved fituatron in which we flood at its
conclusion, compared to that in which we
were at the commencement of it.
Drat some (mall inaccuracy might in
some instance have occurred in the returns
contained in the Gazettes was very pofli
ble, particularly in in,lances of speedy re,
treat; in which cafe it was well know<i,he
fuppofed,that the officer commanding may
be less able to ascertain immediately the
articles left behind ; but this he thought
too trivial to conftitjjte a ground of minute
or serious charge, which never fk.uld be
instituted, but in enfes of great importance,
and founded on ft long ground of suspicion.
He conceived it no part of the duty of
a member to give in his individual capa
city, any information which the House
did not think proper to require, and there.
fore that hon. gentleman had no right to
ltx>k even for private explanation from any
person who may from his official Itation
(as Sir James Murray) have it in his pow
er to give. Forthefc reatons he thought
nothing could be more unnecefiary than
the prcfent motion, which he therefore
should refrlt.
Major Mail land j-ofe to explain, and
difclaimeil all intention of imputing any
j tnrog^rrireJpeFtfnnto - tJSTiriufh iroopj, j
as far as they were personally engaged in
the execution of plans, however unwise
these plans might be in theit.felves and un
fueceisful in the event.
Mr. Pitt observed, thiit in that view of
the xubjedl the motion became more un
necefiary, as his crimination would therv
only apply to the cabinet, in which the
plans were adopted, and yet the motion
pointed at a detailed examination of th*
execution.
Mr. Fox said, that if the doctrine ad
vanced by Mr- Pitt prevailed, the House,
though avowedly misinformed, were nci
thertt? lln** that misinformation corre&ed
~by private or official "t>mmuruotion.
The prcfent motion, he
thought expedient, and regarded it as 3
preliminary to a very neceflary inquiry
into the losses and di(honor of the cani
paign.
He took for granted, that Mr. Pilt,
agreeable to the opinion advanced this
night, was highly displeased with the At
torney-General, for giving the private un
alked information relating to Lord Shel
burne's letters. The loss i>f \va» P°
objection to a war, he represented as a
very lofty argument, and one to which
he could not accede. Ever* with refpeft
to the continuanee of the war, the lofs
of men was a fad highly ufcfui to be
known, as.if the obje6V gained was inad
equate to that luff, it would fugged rea
sons to alter the plans of operation. As
there appeared tio danger of improper
disclosure to the enemy, and the informa
tion was such ss the country at large as
well a* the House should receive, he ex
pressed much furpiizc that any oppufitioiv
was made.
Sir James Murray informed the House,-
that the account of the loss of guns be
fore Dunkirk, which was inserted' in the
Gazette, was the best account which at
that time could be colle&td. In fact,
however, on more mature inquiry, tf<?
numbfr was found something under ra
ted, but not in a degree that would make
aay mete-vial imprt-ffion on the publie
mind. This inaccuracy arose from the
expeditious execution of the retreflt im
mediately after it was determined on.—
At that period ea«h oiScer of artillery re-/
,mawJ ad naay gens as wa in his pow
er, though when the difpatcbes were
made op, all the returns of cannon
brought away had not been received, ami
therefore he was obliged to take a loole
e&mate of the commanding officer of
the artillery of what had been left be
hind, namely, 32, when in fact it after
wards appeared that 40 was the real num
ber.
Mr, Grey observed, that there wai no
imputation at all again!! Sir J. Murray,
but that nothing had been Hated which
took away the propriety of carre&ing
publicly an erroneous return which had
publicly been made. It was the firil I
time, he said, that Similar accounts had
been refilled. In former wars communi
cations of this kind were much more free
end abundant. He declared that he had
jio ways altered his opinion concerning
the motions he made for printing the
returns already obtained, and extracts
from the Gazettes. On those subjects,
and on the present, he thought th: fub
je(fl had a right to expe£t full and expli
cit information.
Major Maitland said a few words in re
ply, and expressed much fatisfaftion, that
Sir J. Murray had not adopted Mr. Pitt's
hint of {ilence. Should the motion be
negatived, the country, he /aid, was then
tounderftand.thatno.reliance could be pla
ced on any source of intelligence how au
thentic soever it might profefs to be.
The motion was then Dut and nega
tived.
I'HE ISLAND OF MARTINIQUE,
According to the best information receiv
ed ycfleruny in town, surrendered to the
British Troops without much reliftance. Thit
agreeable intelligence was indubitably con
firmed by the arrival of the Qneen Charlotte
Packet, at Falmouth, from the Leeward Is
lands, after a pallaire of thirty days.
The Queen Charlotte has dispatches da
ted the -ioth of February, about ten days
later than what we yesterday communicated
to the public.
April 4.
Lady Wallace has long since informed us,
on the authority of Dumourier, that the
King of Prullia never entered with sincerity
into the league agaiplt France, but solely
with a view of ruining the House of Auflria,
which, if efferted, would plaee him at the
head of the German Empire. The public
not seem to have plarwl much'.reliance
1 jn her Ladyfiiip's aflertion. But the event
is likely to prove that her information was
authentic.
The late King of Prufiia, after he had
conquered Silesia, secured it to himfelf by a
treaty with Maria Theresa, Queen of Hun
gary, and left his ally Louis XV. to prosecute
the war as he thought proper. « I have be
gun (laid he) a course of physic fqr mvfelf",
and I advile my quondam friends co do the
fame."
Whether the present King intends to diet
himfelf, after so much loss "of blood, we do
fortunately the solid and fubiftantlal motives
of confoiation, which relieved Frederic 11.
on his sick bed.
As some Literati of Paris, who were af
fcmbled at the bouse of a lady, frequently
mentioned the word « Pbibfopby," Jhe a/ked
them what fcrvke Philosophy had conferred
on the world.. « Madam,'* said the «le-
F ate , ? D AK '"" 1 . btrt ! hatfvt down the
I'otrjt of Prcju. ices.
Put What has fucceededlto that pretend
►ft A K"" d,c " ? Gaudy and the rank
tweeds, which now cover the hapny foil
M France. The extraordinary and calami
tous events which have marked the close of
the eighteenth century will demonstrate to
tne latest poftenty, that too much philoso
phy is no less hurtful than too little. France
knows it now to her own cost, and we Ihould
,1 V , n °T?- , . t . , °°' had k"* been for the
tunely and spirited exertions of Government.
dread with which the Despots
... Asia mfpire their fubjefls, or rather flares,
that .1 Grandee of the Court of Tfmahel
Siphia, lung of Persia, said, that he never
withdrew from his presence, without feeling
with both hands whether his head was lliTl
upon his fhonldtrs!
' Wliert we calculate the average number
of the persons now imprisoned, eithf on
fufpicicn or for criminal attempts, in the
Department of Paris alone, we may fa rly
estimate that number at 12,000. If-the other
Departments have their proportion, there
Ihould be in France about 800,000 prisoners,
whose property has been confifcated by the
late Decree refpetf ing persons apprehended
on suspicion of not being the partizans of the
Revolutionary Government. Now, when
■when we calculate the number of their heirs
the modertte ratio of two to one, we (hall
find that the Convention, by one dalh of the
pen, has devoted 1,600,000 persons to abso
lute ruin.
MAJOR RENNELL.
This gentleman, unquestionably the best
.** eographer of his time, is at the present pe
riod busily employed in preparing a map of
. I Syria, in which labour he has been afiiifcd
; j by the reneiaMe Niebuhr. There is no good
: j map of Syria. T%at of D'Anviile is cer
j tainlv theoeft; but is acknowledged by tile
1 j nsoft competent judge® to -be exceedingly in-
J accurate.
Mr. PALMER.
j A life of this unfortunate gentleman, with
| observation« on his various writings, is laid
] to be preparing by Mr. Wakefield. Mr.
I Palmer is poUefled of considerable abilities
{ and learning, and is remarkable for his ciiti
| cal acuteueis ill matters relating to philolo-
J ST
PHILADELPHIA;
I MAY 31.
I Yesterday a man and horse were browned
j at the lower Ferry—there were two men and
j three horses attempting to pass at the fame
j time—and it was with great difficulty that
I one of the men and two of the horses were
I saved.
We hear that in consequence of some of
j the late western intelligence, a draft of mili- !
j tia was ordered out by the Governor, to '
j reinforce the State Troops—but, it appears '
j that in consequence of a communication be
tween the President of the United States and
J the Governor, the orders for the draft have
I been revoked by the latter.
The tide on Thursday was higher in
onr river by three inches'than it has been
known to be by the oldest inhabitant*!.
have been filled with it, and
I goods to a considerable amount damaged,
j ffie wind also, on the night of Wednes
day, did some injury along the wharves.
I Doctor Priestley failed in the (hip
j Sanfom, Capt. Smith, for New-York,
in company with the Pigou, from LOll
- don.
J From Correspondents.
J It has been published, that Spain has
I acknowledged the Independence of Fiance ;
j this amounts to nothing—for it may be
j truly affirmed, that the French have been
j an independent people for ages—and at
J the present moment, are indubitably the
j mojl independent nation on earth. The
j recognition of the Republic is the delide-
J ratum.
I Although the feceflion of the ICfng of
j Prufiia, from the League against France,
i is positively aflerted in many paragraphs in
i I the London Papers, and it is an event,
■ I perhaps highly probable, yet it is to be
: I noticed, thit no official ttateicent of the
I bufmefs has appeared.
J Some particulars re/petting HEBERT who
was lately beheaded at Paris.
I His fate filrniihes the world with ano-
I ther instance of human viciflitude. Of ob
scure birth—little can be said that would
mtered our readers of thatrpart of bis life
previous to the Revolution. Nor indeed, j
till the appearance of a small periodical !
paper entitled le Pere du Cher.c. Though
I he was avowedly the author among his owu
friends, he was politic to remain unknown
I to the world, pending the violent struggles
I of the aristocrats and their opponents
J but after the king's flight to Varennes, it
I was then no longer prudence to remain in
j secret. The inflammatory purport of this
paper tended much to aggravate the ha
tred of the people of Paris against that
I unfortunate monarch, whose iotereft now
I among his best friends began visibly to de
-1 cline. Its language was calculated for that
description of society yclept la canaille—
replete with low ribaldry, obfeenity and
I what is vulgarly termed Jiang. Judge of
such expreflions as " Le Pere de Chene
bougrement en colere."—" Lesjean f. .-
tres des Gardes du Roi."—" A bas ma
dame Vetoet le cochon."—" Jc dis, que
les vrais Sans-Cu!ottes font le peuple de
Paris, f. . tre," &c. See. At this time he
was fvbjlitutc of the commune, a place of no
inconliderable consequence, ajnd had the
the reputation of being a patriot as enrage
as any in the republic; notwithstanding
which, he was either envied or fufpe&ed,
and was imprisoned. Chaumette procu
reur de la commune was his friend ; he
harangued the people who had airembled
round the prison, and declared that he
would forfeit his head if Hebert was not
the founded republican in Paris: he was
soon after liberated, and was led to the
people, who in these cases are sometimes
judges. Chaumette embraced him with
tears of joy trickling down his cheeks,
j which was followed by ]oud acclamations,
■1 and the innocence of the Pere du Chene
was proclaimed throughout Paris.
Who can believe that the rMn, who had
so much inflamed the minds of tlit people
against t heir Sovereign, wlio was one wliofe
occupation was to discover fufpe&ed or
■ guilty persons, who was supposed to be
I one who winked at the maffacrcs, and who
was publicly declared the founded repub
licau in Paris, lhotild at last be convicted
of conspi racy against (he republic, and fuf
fer un<Jer the fatal axe of the guillotine!
A TRAVELLER.
3 lft May, 1794.
Ffom the London Morning Chronicle of
April 4.
General Santcrre is arretted and fait to
the Gonciergcrie.
An elegant silver inkstand, with the
following inscription, was presented on
Wedn/ffday last' to Do&or Prieftky, by
three young gentlemen of the Universi
ty of Cambridge:
| "To JOSEPH PRIEST LET, D.
I D. (J:, on his Departure into Exile, from
! a few Members of the Univerfoy of Cam
bridge, tvho rgret that this exprejton of
ii'vir ejieem should be occqfoned Ly the In
gratitude of their Country."
THEATRE.
OBSERVER No. XIX.
Mr. Fen no, k
1
EAST evening we had Shakefpcar's ce
• lebrated Comedy, called, As ycu l-.ke it. Mr.
Crtaliners 111 .he character of Jaquts, ex
hibited tbe inimitable beauty, elegance and
strength of the author's ideas, in a more
, maiterly and finking manner, than even Mr.
Chalmers himfelf, has ever done before.
Mr. Marlhall in his Comic difleftation on
Hobby Horses, acquitted himfelf wkh great
propriety, and received a very just tribute of
applaiile.
it would be needless to mention Mis. Mar
ihaj and Mr, Bates, who nave defervtdiy
gained the moll unlimited confidence of a
decerning public, were it not, that their per
formances of last evening, exceeded, tlife moll
sanguine expectation.
Miss Willems and Mr. Cleveland, are
desired to commit their parts to memory; an
indulgent cannot always keep in
dulgence in exercise, when repeated negledts
occur, and when the prompter's lungs and
their own ears are in danger, from the ne
ceJ.ary bellowing of sentences to help out
theft Jctors, who might obtain applaiile, in-
Itead of eenfure, by greater diligence in get
ting up their parts.
1 he Obi'erver is bound in juflice to men
tion Mr. Moreton ; he has prodigioully" im
proved since the commencement of the pre
l'ent season ; in the two characters of Orlando
and Peregrine Forrejhr, lift evening, too
much cannot be laid in his favor, and ae
a general performer, this gentleman bids
fair, for a reputation equal, if not luperior
to any in America; if he cannot equal the;
•Tragic dignity and strength of a Fennel, or
the fcnifted commanding air and exprellion
of a Chalmers, or yet the infinite humor
of a Hates : lie certau.ly partakes lb hapi>; v
in a composition of all, and this, managed
with flic it tromkg modesty and grace, that
truth fauft rank Him in the moll meritorious
clafe of Theatric performers.—lt is imcere
ly wished, he may have a benefit night, at
which he wiil unquestionably receive proofs,
of the approbation and attachment of a dis
cerning and generous public.
May 31.
Congress of the United States.
House of Representatives.
.. Ma y 30.
Mr. Murray, moved for a committee to
report a bill for the collection of a duty of
one cent per ton on all veflels entering' the
diftritfl or Baltimore, for the support of a
Health Office. He read an ail past by the
Legiilatiire of Maryland, at their lait l'effion,
and explained the general objeil of their ar
rangements on this fubjedf—A committee
was appointed, viz. Mr. Murray, Mr. Arm
firongand Mr. Hunter.
Saturday, May 31.
Mr. Murray, reported a bill for the col
lection of a duty on velfels from foreign
voyages, .entering the diftriit of Baltiinoi e,
for tJie purpoie of supporting a Health Of
fice, agreeably to an udt of the Letfillature
of Maryland.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
CLEARED.
Brig Yorick, M'Alliller, St", Euflatia
Schr. Experiment, Barton, Savannah
Sloop Virginia, Seguine, Norfolk
A PLAIN COOK.
WAN I Ei) a middle aged /lugie Woman,
unde' Hand, p Cooking; to lucli a ontf
the bejl <ivag:s w.li be given.
■ Apiiy t the* Printer.
31 lot
> * * <?nfWn naaib doeyeft<?r<fay unci
- to day, are not arrived —The loutliem mail
is in, but brought #o Newlpaper*.
I „
J jo C■orrefpvndcnls.
flints, or Materials Jkc. n -—contain, what
appear to be perfbnal aliufioris of an objecti
onable cast Weiubmit it tooiir rorrefpond
ent whether the cui bcno will not apply
with too modi force to some of his remarks
to jaftify their publication.
FEATHERS and FLOWERS
Fails, Black Lace, Window Glass, and
R / C E t
for salp by
Louis Ofmont,
Ac. 117 i north SecondJirect.
M *y dtf
Guthrie's Geography improved.
THE subscription lor this work nn the ori
ginal ti mis, of i welve Hollars and tlie bind
ing, will be cioifd this day—and on Monday
rlie <uh r cnj*ion will open at fourteen dollars,
exc!ufive of the price of binding.
T!ie new maps added to this" edition are
twenty one ; among « hicli are those of New-
Hanpfhire, Maffacbufetts, Conneaicut,
Rliode-Uland, Vermont, New York, New
Jerfeyy Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland,
Virginia, Kentucky, -North Carolina, the
Teneilt-c Govetnineut, South Caiolii ?, and
Georgia. Thele maps have never been givin
in any former fjrftem of Geography, and, it
is hoped, would alone be fufficient to entitle
i his work to a preference to any other edition
of Guthrie.
N. ij. The map of the United Sates,
wh cii is Compiling by Mr. S imuel Lewis,from
the refpeilive state maps, wi.J be far nlo r e
complere than any one yet publifiicd, and be
printed on two large (heets of paper, nearly
the tizc of the late Mr, Murray's map.
May 31 ' A
A Journeyman Printer,
Enquire ac No. U, north Fifth street.
May Jt j t
NEW THEATRE.
Airs. Worrell's Nichf.
On MONDAY EVENING,
June 2.
Will be presented,
A COMIC OPERA, called
Lionel and ClarilTa;
OR,
The School for Fathers.
Sir John Flowerdale, Mr. Whidock
Col. Oldboy, Mr . Bates
Jeuamy, Mr. Moreton
, r lon<1 » Mr. MarihaU
Harman, Mr. Cleveland
3 Jenkins, Mr- X) atk
f Servants, Meflrs. Darlty, jun. Blii
s sett, and J. Warrell
r Lady Oldboy, Mrs. Shaw
£■ ClarilTa,(with additional songs) Mrs.
r ° Warrell
1 Diana, Mrs. Oldmixon
r Jenny, Mils Willems
Eiidol 2d a&, a HORNPIPE,, by Malttjf
i T. Warrell.
t End of the Opera, a new Comic Pastoral
s Ballet, coiUjpofed by Mr. Francis, called
- L'Amour trouve les Moyens ;
Or the ,
; FRUITLESS PRECAUTION.
By Mon». Belona, Mr. Bliffett. Mr. Dar'ey
jun. Matter T. Warrell, Mr. I'rancis»Mrs.
De Marque, anu Madame Cardie.
To which will beidded,
A FARCE, never performed here, written
by John O'Keefe, Esq. author of the
Poor Soldier, Agreeable Surprize, &c.
called
Modern Antiques ;
O R,
The Merry Mourners.
Cockletop, Mr. Frahcig
F rar >k, Mr. Green
W». Mr. Bates
ISa P k,n > Mr. Buffet
Heaitv, Mr. De Moulin
Thomas, Mr. Wat reU
Mrs Cockletop, Mrs. Shaw
Mrs. Camomile, Mrs. Rowfon
Belinda, Mrs. Cleveland
£^ an ' Mrs. Francis
F lounce » Mrs. Bates
®s"y- Mils Rowfon
Tickets to be had of Mrs. Warrell, No.
31, north Seventh iireet. At the usual
places, and of Mr. Franklin at the Theatre,
where places may be taken.
Alio at the Library.
,° n ,Sfl' t i , : ,rj F' ! y of ROMEO
and JLLIET, with the ROMP, for the
benefit of Mrs. MARSHALL
Mr. Darley's Night will be on Friday.
Places m the Boxes to betaken at tl,e Box-
Office of the Theatre, at any hour from nine
in the morning till three o'clock in the after-- .
noon, cn the day of performance. Tickets
to be lud at the office near the Theatre at/
V' e s°™" of «*th-ftreet,and at Carr & Co'*.'
MuUcal kepofitory, No. iaj,
- .>S|T
Marrfvt *794-
JUST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Maria fra!,
I - £ FlliST VOLUVIK OP. A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography:
ot. A
Geographical, Hiflorical, as#
Commercial Grammar;
And prefcnt state nf the ftveial
tyjTIONS OF THE WORLD*
CONTAINING,
1. Th«* figures, and distanceS or
the planets,-according to the Newtonian *yi
tein the latest obfe* vatioos
2. A general Tiew of earth, c^nfidered
a. a'planet; with fcveral ufeful geographical
definitions and problems
-3 The g J'vd of the S lobe ,nto
land amf u ater, contrncts and iflai d;.
4, The situation and extent oi empires,
km (linns, states, provinces and colonies.
j. T'neir climates, air, foil, vegetable',
pr.adiifttonS, metals minerals, natural cun
olirie*,' seas, rivei bays, capes, p; onion tones,
aud lakes.
6. The Kirds and beads peculiar to each
country.
7. ObfervatioiTs on the changes that nave
been any where observed upon the face ol na
ture since the molt eaijy periods of history.
8. The history and Origin of nations ; thei\
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
nues, taxes, naval and mijita y strength.
9. The genius, manners, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
10. Their language,learning,arts,fciences,
manufactures, and commerce,
11. T.ie chief cities, ftru&ures, ruins, and
artificial curiosities
. ' j2. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
di (lances of principal places from Philadelphia.
Jo which areaddedi
1. A Geographic al Index, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
-2. A Table ol the Coins ot all nations, and
their value in dollars and cents.
3. A Chronological Table of remarkable
events, from the creation to the prefenttime.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
Tiie Aftrqnomical PaVt corre&ed by 1
t D . Rittenhouse.
To whicli have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herschell,
- and other emindnt Astronomers.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrcfted, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The fir It volume contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, belides two Agronomical Plates,
viz.
1. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world.
3. Europe. $. Asia. 5. Africa*. 0. South
America 7- Cook's discoveries. 8. Covin
north Pate. 9. Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway. »o. Seven United Pro
vinces. it Auftriaa, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. i - Seat of war
in France. 14. France div»ded intodepait
inetits. 15. Switzerland. 16. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia- 17. Spain and Portugal.
l 8 Tu' key in Europe and Hungary. 19 In
land. 20 Weft-Indies. 2i. Vermont. 22. Ar
•ftnHary-fp vere. 23. Copernican system.
With the (econd volume, which is now in
the pref;, will be given the following Maps :
1. Russia in Europe and Afcu
fc. Scotland.
3. £9 gland;and Wales.
4. Poland. ,
. 5 . China.
Hnidoftan.
United States.
g. B'itifh America*
t). S ate of Ne v-Hampihire.
,0. State of Ma (fichu setts.
il. State of Conne&icUt.
,2. State of Rhode lAand.
.. j3- State of New-York.
14* State of Ne wJe rfey.
15. State: of Pennsylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky. ;
2o State of North-Carolina.
21. Tenneflee Government.
22. State-os South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia.
TLRMS.
1. This work will be compriled in two vo
lumes.
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (56 cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the fucteeding volume,
in twenty-four weekly numbers, a* a quar
, ter dollar each, or else, when finifhed, at
the fame price as the firft.
4* The fubfeription will {je railed on the firft
day of Ju.je 1794, to fourteen dollars, ex
clulive of binding.
5. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion ot the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
6. The names of the fubferibers will be pub
lished as patrons of American literature,
arts,and feie'nees.
It is wholly unnecessary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American readers, that this edi
tion poflfefles, over every imported edition of
< any system of Geography extant. The addit
tion of maps of the several ftnte , procured a
a very gFeat expfrtfe, and from the belt ma
terials that are attainable, speaks such full
couvidtion on this fubjeft, that it would be
difrefpedt to the reader's understanding to
suppose it requilite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
similar work have such maps baenever intro
duced.
f 1.- wVlch at ' 1
m lic in thh • ,rV,«einr -.raerable,and ovcoi" &
iueve'v r>tge. Tl.e |>«bl>c ar« referred to
the prefer a flight fketcb ot a ft* of >j
."V- puhlilher takes tl® pre font opportu- J<
nitv of h s moil fiucere th.»k. to «
tlurfe ,*fp ftifcV chancers wna h.v< favored «
for improving tbe map» *
of fev<r„i „f tne (teres. He requelU a cont.
nuance of their luodoef,; and hopes that fuel.
nuMic spirited citizens, as ife poiTclTed »• S
inilar .will favor h..» «r»tk tlieir
affiftsnce inf#rfcrt ; nj undertaking •
' Tie extraordinary encouragement vitn j
which he has been favored, has excited
• in hisfcreaft ihe warmest fentimeotf ot gratt- ,
tu J—rrntim nis which rime will not eiWce. ,
He pfedjss himfelf to the citizens of the
, United S°ate*, to fj»«e neither pains nor ex
I penfe to render the present edition of Guthrle s
Geography improved, def-Tving ot their pa
, tronage. ' wa '
,_NOT I C ET
THE OFFICE of thr Secretary of State is
' removed from High Street, to ihe New Build
' ings, i!u corner of Sixth & Mulberry firects.
' \'*y 15
' H 0 E S.
5 A quantity of stout wVll made Men's foe
SHOES, adapted for the Southern market, fur
sale at
No. t,6, North Third street.
May 6 mw&f.Ot
NANKEENS.
* Nankeens of Superior Quality,
FOR SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April M. tnw&ftf
~ ITs &en c e
for the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold by Dr. Lek> Golden-
Square, London.
THLK public is otfjred one of the mod:
efficacious and fafe medicines, that ever, ap
peared, for that nioft excruciating pain, the
Topth-Ache—the numerous instances ot its
happy elfe&s, in relieving the have
now b»>nght it into uiiverfal eftiination; it
notonlv relieves the tooth-ache, but is of the
ti tin oft service in curing the SCURVY in the
GiTms, in preventing the difagreeablc smell
t!>at s produced from un Pound tee h, & wi II
occasion a ftfreet breath; irJlkewife prevents
the teeth from decaying, and will be found
a general preserve*" of the Teeth and Gums
Sold in Philadelphia onlv at
. P-oyntelPs Stationary Store,
No. 2i, Second street.
April 24. tuth&rs 3W
The Ground Plan
OF THE I
City and Suburbs
PHILADELPHIA.
TAKEN FROM AQTVAL SURVEY.
IT is with pleasure that the publiiher has to
info; m his fubferibersand the public in gene
ral, that the plate »s uow under the hands of
the engraver, and in greater forwardnfs than
was at £;•{£ contemplated. At the fame time
iie begs leave to r< ipind them, tb-t fubkrip
tion papers are still open at most of the noted
book-stores in the city ; and that he hopes
from the whole of them to be enabled to fo> in
such a refpettable catalogue of names, as wiJJ
do a credit to the work, as well as afford a
reafdiiable encouragement to the undertake-)
Those who are desirous of further informa.
tion are requested to call on
Benjamin Davies,
"fco. 68, Market street.
April 14. m&thtf
Freafury Department.
Rcvinuc-Qjpce, May rlh, 1794.
NOTICE 'is.hereby given, that Proposals
wi|s be received at the Office of the Cornmif
(io'ier of the Revenue, for Ship Timber of
the following kinds, fu : table for the building I
of the Frigates authorized bv.Law. A p»r
«. ticular 4 detail of the fjzes and proportions will
be communicated, on application at the said
Office.
White Oak Timber and Plunk.
98 Pieces of various Dhnerfions. includ
ing Keels, Floor and Riling Timbers,
&:c. for a Vcflel of 140 or 150 feet
Keel.
; 27,00 d Feet of Plank, Scantliofr, Wal
t 6 pieces, Bilge Streaks, Clamps, &c. &e
200 Logs, for various ui'es.
'j- j Pitch Pine.
) J ceo Feet of Piank lor Decks.
"5 , 2io Beams, from 4?. to 28 feet long, and
from 10 by 12 to 15 by 18 inches thro'.
j 50,000 Locust Treenails, 18, 24 and 30
inches long.
5,000 Feet of Inch and half«-»nch Cedar
Boards.
30,000 Feet of Yellow Pine Boards and
Scantling.
Persons willing to supply any part of tqe
above Timber for one Snip, or in proportion
loi the whole fix, will make their
accordingly. tti^3w
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills oj
the Bank of the United States, W Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
[even J of Wuicb have appeared in circulation
within a fw> days pajl ; tbej are a good ge
neral imitation of the genui>*Btils, but may
be diftwgnijbed by the following
M A R K S.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of tlx
United States.
ALL that have appeared havs the letter F.
for tneir Alphabetical Mark.
i The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink mare freely than
tlie genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is rmal.er
than the M- and other letters of that word,
f,> that a iine extended from the tnp »t 'he <>,
to touch the top of the M. would txtend con
fiderabty above the range of the whole word.
In tilt- wo,d United the letters are narrow
erand cloier together than thtf reft ol the bill
The/and fin the word promise are nor
parallel, the/inclining much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly cxecuted,the fttokcs
of all the Lettets are Wronger and the devi e
in theniargin istnuch coarfcr and
appears da, kerihan in the Hue bills. Some
ol the counterfeits bear date in 17^1—Where
as tho Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were issued in
that year. •
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of Aorth
America.
ALL that have appealed have the letter
B for their alphabetical mark.
Tliey are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the counterfeit Five Dollar Note-,
above described; the engraving is bcttei ext
uctetl, ond they approach neater to tjjf ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word •' :»<«-
Vv, in the body of-tbe bill, are in number th. r
teen in the genuine b.lls, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Do liar Bills &s defer ibed a
bove, the » being lels than them, and others
foil* wing.
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are lb cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and they go
ing below them.
The fiviMiurtr J Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamb-black ami
oi], and differs from other inks used in
printing the bills and the calhier's tfgnature.
It is (uppoled thele forgeries were committed
in iomeof the Southern States,-as all the coun
terfeits that hav<* appeared, have come from
thence, and two porfoos have been apprehend
ed trrVirginraj ol auihoi
of them.
The 1 e ward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Peifonoi Pnlons wtiu tha.i
discover and prosecute to convi&iontbe teveial
offenders of the following del<*i iptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or pcrfons, who jnanuf<:£tured ;
the paper on which the aie printed.
The person or perlons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, o{ the bills.
Kvefy peifon wno Has a£led as a pr.ncipal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the Taid bills.
I
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the Bank of the United States have appeared
in circulation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOI,
the alphabetical mark is the let
ter B.
They may be diflinguifhed from the genu
ine by tke following MARKS :
The paper of the counteifeits is of a move
tender texture and glofley furface than th?
genuine, and there is no water mark inthen\.
The letter C. in the word CatWier, in the
true bills is strongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a finc hair
stroke, evidently in an nnfiniflicd state. The
letters in tlie word demand, is badly formed
and the whole word ill done, and the're is no
1 comma at the end of it, as there is in the
' genuine bills.
r The marginal device, is much datker in
> the falfe, than in the genuine bi)ls owing to
" the shade strokes being coan'er, much nearer
together, and consequently much more nu
* merous. This difference strikes the eye at firft
view. ■ ' :
The fame reward of ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will be paid for apprehending, &
, profecuri'tig to oonvi&lon the several above
t described Offenders in to this, as to
the iaft described bills- *
THOMAS WILLING, Piefidcnt
e of the B*nk United Statis.
JOHN NIXON, PioAdent of the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Rcf
d pc&ive Boards.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
d TKan eligible situation, —also a Country Seat
X withi" 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
je House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
>« of the city, in lize, or convenience*
[h For particulars apply to the printer,
w I m&ttf
j i^^i@SSS^^@ni^»
■*
»
te»MWre4l^j'flßl l< RHiiff!»rel^B , -«aMd
,;, ■»>,,. Y" r»iW •'- Y i'liftO tijfiV l "" r MI
; ■• ■■ '■ *»'*a ,:■ •i■ X. ;:,-V.t",.>^r ; Jiifj
: :<??* PtffLA&ELPBfJt-* J