€p>apfte of cfjelftmfelj) U>fafe
EVE
[No. 25 of Vol. V.]
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burv r ng-
k ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requcfting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
ihorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chaiis, and harness
of every description, in the neatest and newest
fafhion now prevailing *n the United Stare-?.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital woikmm, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaltion to thole whopleafe to employ him
He has for sale, fcveral carriages almost
"finithed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, Uung 011 steel springs, a light phaeton f»r
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794 mSftgm
Bank of the United States
January 6th, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given, that there will
be paid at the Bank, after the fix tee nth
instant, to the Stockholders or their reprefcn
tatlves, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty cents for each share, being the dividend
declared for the last fix month*.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN,
Caflrer.
j
, Excellent CLARET,
In hogfbeadi and in caTs ot 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipea, hogfnrads and quarter cafkft,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
Nov tit# South Froni-ltrcci.
Jan. 2, >794. dtf
NOTICE.
BEI NG desirous of closing various commer
cial concerns, and that all powers hereto
fo«e granted relative to the fame should be re
voked, and public notice of it given, to prevent
any poflible mistake ; I, the fubferiber, do here
by make known to all whom it may concern,
that all powers and letters of attorney, of every
nature and extent, granted by me to any person
or persons, prior to the lft day of July last, to
ast for me or in my name in America, are re
voked and made void.
JAMES GREENLEAF.
New-York, Jan. 1, 1794
NORRIS-COURT,
Back of tjhe New Library, between
and Walnut-Street*.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY infornii his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the business
vJign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-Ihuttcrs, done in the nioft
elegant manner, and with difpatcb.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
E. Oswald,
No. 156, Market-Street, South,
\ T the request of a number of friends,
±\. proposes publishing The Independent
Gazetteer, twice a week, viz. Wednefdavs
and Saturdays—to commence in January next,
if fufficient encoeragement offers
It will be published on Paper and Types
equal to its present appearance. The sub
scription dollars per ann.
Advertisements not exceeding a fqaare,
will be inlerted 4 tiroes for 1 dollar—every
continuance one fifth of a dollar. Those ex
ceeding a square, in the fame proportion.
MONEY borrowed or ieaned, accounts Ha
ted or colletted, employers suited with
domestics, house rooms, boarding and lodging
rented, let or procured—foldicr's, mariner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims 011 the
public ; {bares in the banks, in the canals, and
the turnpike road ; certificates granted by the
public, and the old and late paper monies ;
notes of hand, bills, bonds and morgages, with
or without depofnt—Bought, fold, or rego
ciated at No. 8, in south Sixth-street, below
Market-ftrcct by FRANCIS WHITE,
Who tianfatts business in th» public offi-es for
country people and others, by virtue of a pow
er of attorney, or by personal application.
December 1 1. d
NING ADV.ERTISER.
"Wednesday, January 8, 1794-
Just Imported,
Front London, Dublin and Glasgow,
And nnv opening for sal**, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jtrcct,
A a*.d Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NE W Annual Regi iter for 179 a
European Magazine lor the firft f»x
months of 1 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the RomanKmpira
Memoirs of the Manch.-fter society, 3 vols *
Priestly on matter and spirit
on ehrtfhanity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingviile's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty, a collection of essays
Varieof Prufl!a'« works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh,
Ruflell's ancient and mode- n Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Eiegant extra&s, fupeibly gilt
Elegant extra&s of natural history
Saugnier and Briflbn's yo»'age
Rochon's voyage to Ma-Jagafcar
Town (end's travels in Spain
TaflV* Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's tranflatioTi of Buffon
Berwick's hiftoty of quadvupeds
Burfon abridged
History of birds
Philips'* history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France* in -3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 v*>lf.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's di&ionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Pt efent state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hud lon's Baj
Preston on niafonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kirtes of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruin* of empires
Travels
Vaillaint's travels, with fwperb engravings
Downmao's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and imma^erialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on pol tical justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's sketches of the 'history of man
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Benignui
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse di<stionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. &: Hid.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark, Ruffia,Polandy&c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the of mid
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn'i diseases of Minorca
Innes on tfie mufcies
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of cuildren
Qtiincy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dlfpenfatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's difiertations
London practice of phytic
BeJi's fiirgery
di w
AND
FAYETTEVILLE.
To the Honorable the General AJfembly of
the State of North-Carolina.
Gentlemen,
SINCE the adjournment of the legis
lature, the war in Europe having become
more general; andfomenationswith whom
we are in the habits of friendftiip and com
merce involved therein, the Prefidentofthe
United States thought i expedient to is
sue his Proclamation declaring the neutra
lity of the United States, and enjoining
and requiring the citizens thereof to adopt
a conduit friendly and impartial to the
Belligerent powers, and as the letter which
communicated the proclamation to me,
exprefled a confidence that injunctions so
interesting to the happiness and prosperity
of the United States would have the be
nefit of my aid to promote their general
and it net observance by the citizens of
thk state, I thought it my duty to give
it every support in my power, and there
fore ifTuiid a proclamation exhorting the ci
tizens of this state to observe with ftritt
nefs and 'fidelity the injunctions contained
in the proclamation of the President of the
United States.
Notwithstanding the amicable and im
partial disposition towards the Belligerent
powers, was declared on behalf of the Uni
ted States, some occurrences soon happen
ed which obliged the President to take
some further steps to preserve the neutra
lity.
An armed vellel of one of the powers
engaged in the present war, captured a
(hip of another lying in the Bay of Dela
ware, and consequently under the protec
tion of the United States, to prevent a
similar proceeding from taking place again,
and to remedy it in cafe it fliould, I receiv
ed inftru&ions from the President to in
terpose in all cases of hostility committed
between the Belligerent powers, within
the jurifdi&ion of this Hate, and that I
fliould with the aid of the militia detain
the parties firft aggressing, until I (hould
communicate the cafe to the President for
his ultimate decision thereon.
In consequence of two veflels having
been fitted out of the port of Charleston,
South-Carolina, to ast as privateers on
behalf of one of the parties at war, I re
ceived further inftruftions, that should
any occurrence of that nature take place
in this state that I Jhould effectually in
terpose to put a stop to it —as soon as I
received those inftruftions I issued or
ders to the commanding officer of the
counties in which the sea ports lay, and
where such occurrences might happen
to put them ftriftly in force, and wa6
in hopes that the fitting out of privateers
on behalf of the parties at war would
not take place in this State In this
expectation I was however deceived—
I received a letter from Colonel Read the
Colle&or of the port of Wilmington,
that a (loop had been fitted out of that
port and was then cruising off that har
bor. I felt myfelf much mortified that
an occurrence of that nature should have
taken place within this state, apd that so
little attention had been paid to my or
ders by Lt. Col. Bloodworth, to whom
they had been delivered, Colonel Camp
bell having resigned.
I therefore wrote to them reqnefting
to be informed of the reasons which in
duced him to disobey the orders he had
received'—in answer to which I received
a letter from him of the 13th of Oft.
in which he endeavors to account for his
conduit and at the fame time enclosed
his commission, which he hoped I would
receive as a resignation of his appoint
ment; as this letter, with the other letters
on this fubjeft will be laid before you,
I shall not make any comments on it.
The fieps that had been previously
taken by the Executive of the United
States, to preserve the neutrality and to
prevent the fitting out of privateers on be
half of the parties at war not being fuffi
cient to answer the purposes intended, 1
received in September further infractions
[Whole No. 481.]
from the President not to permit any arm
ed veflel that had been, or ftionld be ori
ginally fitted out in any of the ports in the
United States as a cruiser or privateer by
either of the parties at war, to hav? efy
lum in any of the ports within this state,
and that should any of them arrive in any
of the ports of the state of North-Carolina,
that I (hould cause them to be ordered to
depart, and in cafe of refufal, to take effec
tual measures to oblige them to depart,
and further that if any such veflel (hould
have sent or brought subsequent to the jth
day of August lalt, or (hould thereafter
bring or fend any prize or prizes into any
port or harbor within this state, that I
(hould cause such a prize or prizes to be
secured by the militia for the purpose of
being restored to the former owners.
On receiving those inllrudtioss, 1 wrote
a letter in which I enclosed a copy of them,
and requested Col. Read to deliver them
to Major Thomas Wright as I thought it
would be quite ufelels to trouble Lieut.
Col. Bloodworth with any further orders
as he had not paid any attention whatever
to those which he had received before.
On the 15th of October, I received
letters from Col. Benj. Smith and Major
Wright, informing me that the (locp
which had been fitted out of the port of
Wilmingten, had returned into that port,
had brought with her, a Spanifli brig her
prize, that they had made some dispositi
ons to secure the prize, but had been pre
vented by the officious interposition of
some person in Wilmington who sent down
a boat in the night to give Captain Her
vieux notice of their intentions; who in
consequence of it sent his prize to fca.
That Col. Smith had given Capt. Her
vieux orders to leave the port, who gave
in excuse for his not complying with them,
that he had put in there in dillrefs and
could not go to sea until his people had
recovered and his veflel was refitted, to
gether with some other reasons mentioned
in his letters to Col. Smnh and Major
Wright.
From the deposition marked No. 2,
which will be laid before you, it appeared
to me that the vessel was in a diftrell'ed li
tuation, and as the Prefidcnt's inftructioni
did not comptehend a cafe of that nature
I wrote to those gentlemen that they
might permit her to remain in port for such
time as was absolutely neceifary to have
her refitted for sea, and then to compel
her to depart.
Previous to Capt. Hervieux's receiv
ing the information from Wilmington, he
had put a trunk or chelt containing he
fays, between 30 and 40,000 dollars into
the hands of Capt. Cook of the Revenue
Cutter, which had been feizedand lodged
in the hands of the deputy marlhal of the
United States for the North Carolina dif
tritt. From Major Wright's ietter to
ine it appears that the money was taken
out of the Spaniih brig ( wiiieh lias been
since confirmed by feme depofjtions tiiat
have been lent me) — I wrote to major
Wriglit to call 011 the marlhal and give
him orders to keepthe money'till Ilhonld
receive fiirthev inttruftions from the Pre
sident, to whom I wrote a full state of the
cafe: I feel rnyfelf extremity hurt at the
conduit of 'the iv/litia of the town of
Wilmington, who being called upon by
major Wright to go on a party to seize
the brig, generally refufed to go, and he
could only get 4 persons out of that town
to go with him. I must here beg leave
to recommend to the attention of the le
giflaturetlie revival of the militia law, so
as to make it conformable to the law of
Congrifs, and by proper penalties to com
pel the service of the militia at all times
when it my be required.
The present defencelefs situation of
our ports demands yuur most lei lots at
tention, fhouldany unfortunate circuin
ftances involve ui a party in the pre
sent war, the most tr. : fling privateer
might interrupt our commerce and in
sult our harbors, which be prevent,
ed by the General AfTembly eftabliihingForts in f"ch places as they should deem
moil proper, and vrliich would in the
mean time enable the executive to pre
fers the neutrality- embraced by the
United States, and' protest the haibors
ot" the Suic from ir.i.Jt.
In January last I received a letter from
Gov-,T Morltne of South-Carolina, in
whicli he informs me that no commillion
ers could pofiibly proceed from that state
to meet the commissioners of the state o:
North-Carolina to extend the boundary
line between the two states, until they can
meet on more equal ground, as tire act of
AOfcmbly prohibits the commiflioners of
this state from infringing the 25 Sec: of
the bill of rights, which exprefdy fays in
what manner the boundary line between
the two uatrs-tefrbe aicertained. He
liewife allures me that the legislature of
' jjouth-Carolina ardently wifties all differ
ences between the two states to be fettled
in an amicable manner, and for this pur
poie will appoint commiflioners to fettle
every dispute refpe&ing territory so soon
as this state fnall appoint commissioners
with fuil powers to discuss and &ttle the
claims of each state, at the lame time he
refers me to some proceedings on this head
between the then two provinces in the
jear 1771 and 1772. The papers which
f,e refers to I have not been able to re
ceive any information upon from the se
cretary's office, as the secretary informs
nie that he had made a thorough learch
and could not find them.
On receiving information of the extent
and fatality of the pestilential fever which
prevailed in the city of Philadelphia, and
fcarino- from the intercourse between this
state and that city, that the disease might
be brought in and spread among the citi
zens of this llate, unless force iteps were
taken to prevent k : I thought proper to
ilfue a Proclamation requiring the persons
veiled bv law with powers to prevent the
introduction of infectious diseases, to pur
ine such measures as might most effectually
prevent the fame.
Fnom the resolutions which the inhabi
tants of fume of the sea port towns thought
it was neccflary to enter into to prevent
the introduction of the disease, it appears
that the law for that purpose was defective
and did not fully ar.fyer the pufpofe for
which it was intended. I would there
fore wish to call the attention of the legis
lature to that law, that it might be so
amended as effectually to prevent the in
troduction of infectious diseases into this
Itate.
The comrniffioners for fettling the ac
counts of the respective states, with the
United States have made their report to the
President, I have not as yet received a co
py of it, nor has it been made public, I
presume the President intends laying it in
the firft instance before the Congrefc, af
ter which copies will be forwarded to the
different states.
By the advice of the council of state, I
appointed and commissioned John Hay
wood Esq. one of the Judges of the su
preme court p rot em. in the room of Judge
Spencer deceased. In the month of Au
gust 1 received a letter from him declining
at that time the acceptance of that ap
pointment, it was then so late that the
council could not be called so as to make
another appointment, soon enough for the
pcrfon appointed to go the circuit, I there
fore declined calling them. They like
wise advised me to appoint and commiifion j
Col. William Waters Brigadier General
pro {em. for the diftrift of HOlfborough,
which appointment had become vacant by
General Mebane's having been elected and
commissioned one of the representatives
from this state to the Congress of the
United States. CoL Waters has accepted
of the appointment.
I do myfelf the honor to lay before you,
a letter from the Lieutenant Governor
of the state of Maffachufetu, respecting a
suit commenced in the supreme court of
the United States, by an individual against
that state, the speech of the late Governor
Hancock to the general court of Ma(Ta
chuletts, and their proceedings on that fub
jeft.
Having received information that some
threats were thrown out by the crew of
the privateer that they would by force
the roonev out of the marihall s hands,
I thought it expedient to give orders to
Major Wright, that if he thought it was
probable that such an occurrence might
take place, or if the marfoall lhould call
upon him for one, to order out a guard
for its protectiou —and also wrote to the
marshall that if he thought it neceflary he
lhould apply to Major Wright for a guard.
My private secretary will lay before you
the public dispatches received in the course
of the year, the letter book and the jour
ftate, likewise two copies of the laws palled
at the lail session of Congress and two co
pies of the Journals of the Senate and
House of Repretentativs of the United
Spates.
have the honor to be with refpeel,
Gentlemen,
Your uaoft obedient Servant,
RICHARD DOBBS SPAIGHT.
FayetteviUe, Dec. 4, 1793-
From a PeterJbur S b Paper, (repMJhed Ij
rrqucjl)
North-Carolina, Dec. 15th, 1793
Mr. Prsntis,
Your paper of the 6th December, 1793,
No. 428, contains a publication styled,
« An examination into the late proceed-
ings in Congress respecting the official
conduit of the Secretary of the Treasury."
The writer of that paper is either an
angry man destitute of candor and inform
ation, or some speculator in the funds,
who has adopted this base method of di
verting the censure of the public from his
own character.
If he had wished to avoid this imputa
tion, in mentioning that Mr. S—dg—k,
h2d brought forward early in the la.t sessi
on, a bill to authorize a loan of two mil
lions of dollars, &c. for the payments to
the Bank ; he would have added, that Mr.
St le of North-Carolina moved to strike
out the whole section on the principle that
loans had been attended with the molt
pernicious consequences.
And that though the motion to strike
out failed, it brought on a debate which
terminated in giving the bill an entire new
shape.
I never in my own name, or any other
name, held a ferthing in the funds, or
Bank Stocks in the United States, nor
did I ever hare a note discounted at any
j Bank in the United States, and I defy
vour dastardly fcribler to prove his alTer-
tion,
At some times it would be treating such
publications with too much respeCt to no
tice them, at other times silence would
seem to give credit and currency to their
falflroods. I am therefore constrained in
juftification to myfelf, to fay that your pa
ragraphs is a Liar, and I call upon you
to publish this letter to (hew my detesta
tion of such calumniators.
The felfity of his charge against me,
wOl I hope, induce liberal minded people
to fufpcnd their censure of other charac
ters, who in all probability, are as innocent
as mvfelf.
JOHN STEELE.
For the GjztTTE of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
YOUR British apologist either hlinded
by zeal for his favorite nation, or deeming
himfelf secure from his anonymous posi
tion; has ventured to brave the p»blic
with another communication, evidently
calculated to misrepresent and deceive.
After noticing the guarantee of Great
Britain to the truce between Portugal and
Algiers, which had been suggested as one
evidence ofher agency in making the truce
he endeavours to evade the force of that
evidence by the following assertions:
" But it is known that the latter fafk
comes from the fame source as the former,
afource which is not only queJTvmatle, but
which derived its information from doubt
fid authority—whereas the intelligence of a
contradiSory nature is not only more recent,
but comes from higher authority, and de
nies the agency of tbat'juition or the guar
antee."
Tbefe assertions are deceptive and in
correct in the following particulars. The
intelligence of a contradiaory nature, reli
ed upon by him, is not more recent, than
the intelligence which he reje&s. The
intelligence relied upon, bears date the
7th of October 1793. The intelligence
rejected, bears date the 12th, and is con
firmed the 2 ift and 22dof thefame month.
The intelligence relied upon, docs not de
ny the agency of Great Britain poflively,
nor the guarantee i:1 any degree, it states
that Jlrong reasons induce the writer to be
lieve, that Great Britain had no agency
in making the truce. It fays nothing of
the guarantee.
The chief circumstance from which this
belief is inferred, is, that the person said
to have concluded the treaty, was not sup-
I posed at that time to hare been in the Bri-
tilh fervire, the reason zCgned is, that he
had not for a considerable time received
any inftruftions from the BritifK court.
Hs had however been in the Britiih service
for iome time proceeding the truce, and
was then relident in Algier*. He must
have been employed by some power, be
cause thro' his agency the truce has taken
effect, and it is no where alerted that he
was employed by Portugal.
This belief therefore at best is founded |
upon fuppofititiouscircumilances, <x ought
not to contradict other evidence stating a
factpofit'rvclj, particularly when it (hali be
recollected that there will be no incompa
tibility in the evidence, if it be admitted
that the Britilh could have given him pri
vate inftrudions for the special purpose of
negociating the truce.
The source of the information seems in
the mind of the zealous apologist, to have
stamped it with indelible authenticity,
whereas the source of the opposing intel
ligence is deemed quejiionalle. The source
of the former is a Briti/b garrifm ; the
source of the latter is Li/bon. The chan
nel through which the latter has been com
municated is by express, from the proper
officer of the government of the United
States resident at this time at Lisbon.
The apologist ventures to compliment
the government of the United States and
its officer, with communicating quejlion
able intelligence and from doubtful autbo-
The apologist further remarks, " The
refufal of a cenvoy is part of the fame
ttory with the former, aad depends upon
tlie lame authoritv. Another letter in t&wn
declares that the improper mannerin which
it was asked was the sole cause of any dif-
ficulty ; fee a letter publtfbed in this paper
cn IVeJnefthj lajl."
Here he endeavours to call to his aid a
letter in town, and a letter in the paper, to
discredit official communications forward
ed by express : But he mu:l admit tnat
the source of these letters is at leail quijVi-
onable ; for his own zeal & cunning might
have dictated the measure of writing them
himfelf.
The anonymous scribbler makes this re
mark :
« There are not wanting those who
wilh to plunge this country into a war
with Great Britain."
If the allusion be intended to include
the writer of the letter to the merchants
of Peterfourg, it is unfounded and illibe
ral. No man more ardently deprecates a
state of war than the writer of that let
ter. Peace is written in the front of his
political bible. Offenfive war cannot con
sist with the principles of any true repub
lican, because he consults the happir.eis
and interest of the great mass of people,
and they fumifh the blood and treasure ne
cessarily expended in every war. But he
can never be detered from exerciCng an
acknowledged national right, from an ap
prehension that the ill humour and injuf
t ice of Great Britain may prompt her to
war ; because he would prefer the extre
meft possible fate, to a servile and inglori
ous dependence upon Great Britain, or
any other power under Heaven.
It is hoped that the calm and the can
did, will attend to facts, and however
painful the result, they will be compelled
to infer, that there are not wanting in A
merica, perhaps even in her legi/Lilh.' and
executive councils, thojf, who intoxicated
with fpeculatise regards for the Brit;(h go
vernment : miscalculating their own poli
tical importance, and hoping some perma
nent diftinttion between t:.-. mfelves and
the great mass of people, are rendy to fur
nilh apologies for every ad of insolence
and injustice, which that nation may com
mit towards the United States, and even
a& upon them as new incentives to court
her difdainful alliance : And tbofr, who
having eftablilhed a paper tyranny in the
United States, separated themselves in in
terest from the great body of people,view
ing the people therefore as their natural
enemies, and fearing the efforts which will
be directed against their paper usurpations
zealonfly fbive to find an afyhnnfor them
selves agaiaft thtir own countrymen, by
throwing the United States into the arms
or even at the feet of Great Britain.
January 9th. 1794.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The pricc is Tweitfy Cents per pot: c d.
Enquire of the Editok.
DecrmLw 16.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE or REPRESENTATIVES.
Tcefday, Jan. 7, 1794.
Sundry petitions wsre read and refer
red.
A motion to refer to a feleft commit
tee the petition of certain persons in the
public offices for an augmentation of their
Salaries, was negatived.
The motion laid on the table yesterday.
by Mr. Parker, refpefting the defcnce of
the Ports and Harbors of the United
States, and an augmentat ion of the Anns
and Military Stores, was taken into coou
deration ; and after a few obferrations,
the latter part of the motion referring
to arms and military fton*s» was with
drawn—the former part w;is referred to
the committee on the Algerine business.
Mr. Trumbull of the committee ap
pointed to draft and report Rules n.nd Re
gulations for the Government of the Pro
ceedings of the House, bro't in a report,
which was read and laid on the table.
A mellage was received from the Preli
dent of the United States, suggesting the
propriety of appointing a person under
the direction of the War Department to
superintend the Receiving, Safe-keeping
and Issuing of Supplies. Also, commu
nicating a Statement of the Expenditures
to the end of the year 1793' fr° m
sum of ten thousand dollars appropriated
for paying the contingent charges of Go-
vernment.
On motion. Voted that the eftlmate cf
appropriation be taken up on Thuriday
next.
The memorial of Stephen Sayre, was
read a second time.
Mr. Goodhue moved that it be referred
to the Secretary of State. Another mo
tion was made for a reference to a Se!e&
Committee, this motion failed; that for
a referrence to the Secretary of State,
prevailed.
The Report of the Committee on
Rules and Regulations, was ordered to be
printed for tlie use of the house.
In committee of the whole on the bill
received from the Senate, making an al
teration in the Flag of the United
States—Mr. TrambuH in the chair.
Mr. Goodhue (aid, he hoped the bill
would not pais—he conlidered it as a tri
fling bufmefs—the flag is as ihe coat to a t
ship by which (he is known, and ought not
to be changed without some fufßcient and
weighty reasons—he did not think that
the addition of anew state to the Union a
j fufficient reason for f»:ch a change—he
saw no end to the business—Kentucky and
Vermont were virtually represented in the
declaration of Independence by the 13
States.
Mr. Clark fa;d he cor-fidered the
as very unimportant, and he hoped the bill
would be aifagTeed to without much de
bate—lf either of the new fcates wish to be
designated by a star in the field of the flag,
he had no objection, if it could be dor.e
by drawing a line tliro' the star, which
designates New-Jersey, and aligning one
half of it to one of the new fta?es.
Mr. I/rman was in favor of the bill—
he said there were nocent prejudices of
ten entertained by individuals and bodies
of men, which it was not good policy to
counteract—rhe c:d not however consider
the present fubje& as frivolous—he thot'
the wilh of the new Rates as exp*efTed by
the b3l, jruft and reafenah.e—they have a
right to be considered on this occasion—
and compliance with their.reasonable
expectation can take p'ace without ar.y
great difficulty, he hoped the bill wou'.d
pass.
Mr. Madison wa« in fever of the bill—
he fuppefed however, that some permanent
provision was propel to regulate the fym
. bol of the Union, and that such alterations
should take place, as the circ» romances and
changes of the Union, by the addition of
new states should renc .T proper.
Mr. Thatcher cKe* 0 :: ed to the bill, he
saw no necouTty fcr ma he t:d not at
present know thit the people cr Kentucky
and Vermont desired :t—the United States
he remarked, were not by di
viding one fete into twe, any more tiian
a state wr:s by adding new counties to it —
he said that there would be the »ame pro
prietv in defijnrating counties on the 3ag.
Mr. Niles and Mr. Greennp both ex
prefled their wish that the biTl Ibculd
—it had originated with their Senators,
and they bad no doubt that :t would be
highly ag-.eeabie to their constituent*.The committee at length rose, and re
ported the bill to the House without a
inendment —In the House the debate was
renewed.
Mr. Boudinot obje&ed to the bill, as
it seemed to involve a neceflity for altering
the Arms and the Seals of the United
States, which would be a serious difficulty
and expense.
Mr. Niles observed that he did not con
ceive there was much stress to be laid on
the obje&ion of the gentleman from New-
Jersey ; he did not suppose the idea of
change was to be extended in the manner
he suggested.
Mr. Madison observed on Mr. Boudi
not's objection, that however well founded
it may he, yet the present fubjeft included
a clear and indisputable right of the states
inqucftion—and as to other alterations
which may be supposed proper, they are
not immediately before the House.
Mr. B. Bourn urged a variety of ob
je&ions arising from the inconvenience and
expence which will attend carrying the
alteration into effect.
Mr. S. Smith urged the impropriety' of
taking any steps in the business ; it is a
new fubjeft—the sentiments of the con
flituents of the members were not known ;
he hoped the business would be suspended.
Mr. Hillhoufe observed, that as the al
teration of the flag would be attended
with conliderable expence, it was but juil
that the government ihould make provision !
to defray the charge.
Mr. W. Smith moved that the bill
(hould be recommitted to a feleft com
mittee—this motion was negatived.
It was then voted that the bill be read
the third time—and to-morrow was as
signed for that purpose.
A report on the memorial of Henry
Hill was read, which is in favor of the
prayer of the memorialist.
Mr. Fitzfimens observed, that among
the resolutions which had been passed by
the house, while the doors were shut, theie
were two, which he conceived ought to
' be made public, as they would tend to re
lieve the anxiety of the commercial and
other parts of the community refpedting
the meaiures which the government prc
pofes to adopt for the protection and
feeuri'y of their intcreft.
Mr. W. Smith, after some remarks si-
milar to tlij; above, moved that the in
junction ps ieerecy so far as refpedts the
two lasts resolutions passed by the House
on Thurfdsy l it, ihould be taken piT.
Mr..Nicholas gave notice that he ftiould
move for a Committee who (hould felett
such parts ot - the communications from
the Executive, as were necessary to give
more full and more important infoima
tion to the people than the resolutions re
ferred to.
Mr. Venable said he did not compre
hend tie scope and design of the motion
he did oot fee what advantage would
result from detailing scraps of informa
tion to the people. The business is riot
matured, and the resolutions may never
pass into a bill j in that cafe, the informa
tion would prove illulive. He tho t the
most eligible mode would be to wait till
a full difcloftire of the whole business could
be laid before public.
Mr. W. Smith observed that the gen
tlcman's reasoning appeared to him to in
volve perpetual secrecy in refpedt to all
business privately difcufTed. The infor
mation now proposed to be laid before the
people, is compleat as far as it goes ; it
will show that the government has not
been inattentive to the peculiar situation
of the Commerce of the United States,
and that thev are taking measures for its
Cecurity. This, surely, is information
that the people have a right to be in poi
fefiioa of.
Mr. Smilie said that the gentleman lalt
speaking, had been uniformly opposed to
opening the doors. The resolutions now
proposed to be made public, are agreeable
to that gentleman, and now he is for ma
king them public: But at the fame time,
he is for keeping the discussions and rea
sonings on which those resolutions are
sounded—secret. He then noticed the
immaturity of the business, and observed
that there was a resolution connected with
the others, which he supposed was delign
ed in the progress of the bnfinefs, to di
feat the whole.
Mr. S. Smith supported the motion
he urged several reasons in its support -it
was due, in justice to the people on the
Sea-board thro' the United States, to in
form them that the Government had not
been inattentive and remiss, in relation to
providing for the protection of their pro
perty. Congress hat been more than four
weeks in feflion—moil of then time has
been occupied in reading papers—the
people are anxious to know what has
been done—the resolutions involve a ve-
Ty popular measure—and the people
ought not to be kept in suspense. As to
•the remark of the gentleman from Penn
sylvania, That a resolution which is tack
ed to the others is intended to defeat the
whole, he considered the suggestion as to
tally unfounded. He conccived it would
have directly the reverse efleft, and wonld
be the means of compleating thebufinefs.
Mr. Giles remarked on the idea thrown
out respecting the popularity of the mea
sure proposed—that he had no doubt that
at the present moment it was popular ;
but this he conceived, was not the time to
judge. When the expence comes to be
felt—when taxes are called for—then will
be the time to test the popularity of the
measure.
Mr. Madison coincided with his col
league, and added, he hoped the publica
tion, would be accompanied with that of
every document, necessary to illucidate
the fubje£t
Mr. Ames observed, that as to the po
pularity of the measure, he should not en
ter into a difcufiion of that question. He
trusted, that the duty of the representa
tives of the people would always be po
pular. The reasoning of some gentlemen
he observed, seemed to involve a doubt,
whether the Commerce of the United
States, was worth protecting If that was
the cafe, he could wifti gentlemen would
openly avow their opinion. He tho't
differently—he was therefore in favor of
the motion.
The firft motion being extended by-
Mr. Fitzfimons to all the resolutions, was
put and carried in the affirmative, without
a diflenting voice.
Mr. Nicholas then moved for the ap
pointment of a committee, to fele£t from
the communications, refpefting Algiers,
such parts as are not proper for publica
tion, that the residue may be made public.
This motion was agreed to without a
division,
Wedncfday, January 8.
Sundiy petitions were read, praying
compensation for services and supplies, alio
for allowances for depreciation on pay
ments received iu paper money ; referred
to feleft committees.
A communication was received from
the Secretary of the Treasury containing
a ilatement of the tonnage ot the United
States and of the progress of their com
merce fmce the eftablilhment of the Federal
Government, read and ordered to be print
ed.
The petition of William Lawrence, a
refugee from Nova Scotia during the late
war, presented by Mr. Sherburne was read,
praying relief from Congress on account of
lofles and fervices—referred to a feledt
committee.
The bill making an alteration in the
Flag of the United States was read the
third time.
Mr. B. Bourne moved that it fnould be
referred to a felecl committee—Mr. Watts
seconded the motion ; lie said his object
was, to have a clause added to eftablifti the
Flag of the United States, so that in cafe
of new accefilons to the Union, future
applications for alterations may be pre
cluded—he added, that he supposed the
title of the bill, (hould the amendment he
proposed take place, ought to be a bill to
ejlabti/h the Flag of the United States.
The motion for a reference to a feled
committee being put, was negatived 49
to 39. '
Mr. Watts then moved that the bill
(hould be recommitted to the committee of
the whole, for the purpose of introducing
a clause to fix for ever the Flag of the U
nited States—this motion was loft.
The queition then was, Shall this bill
pass—the yeas and nays being required
by one fifth of th? members, are, Yeas 50,
Nays 42 as follow :
AYES.
Meflrs. Armstrong, Bailey, Baldwin.
Blount, Carnes, Christie, Claybourne,
Dawfon, Dearborn, Dent, Dexter, Find
ley, Giles, Greenup, Griffin, Grove, Han
cock, Harrifon, Hartley, Heath, Heifter,
Hunter, Irvine, Lyman, Macon, Madison,
M'Dowell, Montgomery, Moore, P. Muh
lenberg, Murray, New, Nicholas, Niles,
Orr, Parker, Pickens, Preston, Rutherford,
Scott, Smilie, I. Smith, S. Smith, Tread
well, V. Cortlandt, Venable, Walker,
Williams, Winn, Winfton. jo.
MefTrs. Ames, Beatty, Boudinot, S.
Bourne, B. Bourn, Cadwallader, Clark,
Cdbb, Coffin,Coit, Coles, Fitztimons, For
reft, Foster, Gilbert, Gillefpie, Oilman,
Glen, Goodhue, Hillhoufe, Holten, Learn
ed, Lee, Locke, Malbone, Mebane, Ne
ville, Sherburne, J. Smith, Sprigg, Swift,
Talbot, Thatcher, Tracy, Trumbull, V.
Alen, V. Gaafbeck, P. Wadfworth, J.
Wadfworth, Ward, Watts,Wingate. 42.
The committee appointed to enquire
whether any and what alteration would be
proper to be made in the ration of the
troops of the United States, brought in
a report, which was read and laid on the
table.
In committee of the whole on the bill
providing for the renewal of loft or destroy
ed certificates of certain descriptions ; Mr.
Trumbull, chairman.
In discussing this bill, the old difficul
ties occurred in refpeft to making provi
sions competent to securing the United
States from imposition and fraud in appli
cations for the renewal of certificates.
Various amendments were proposed &
reje&ed, others agreed to.
The committee proceeded through the
discussion of the bill—they then rose and
reported the fame with sundry amendments
which were read, and with the bill laid
on the Clerk's table.—Adjourned.
UNITED STATES.
Yesterday arrived here the (hip Bac
chus, Capt. Vanneman, from Jamaica ;
which place he left the 28th of Novem
ber. The papers received contain no
thing particular. Captain Vanneman in
forms, that the Governor of Jamaica ilTu
ed a proclamation on the 15th of Novem
ber, opening the ports of that island, for
the importation of Red and White Oak
Staves and Heading, in American bottoms
for four months
An Antigua paper, of the 18th Nov.
received yesterday by the brig Experiment,
Capt. M'Koflde, favs, " The French pri
vateers are still cruizing off St. Bartholo
mew, but they are not permitted to carry
their prizes there, or even go there them
selves, in consequence of some regulations
which have lately taken place between the
courts of London and Sweden."
Adjourned,
SALEM, (Majf.) Dec. 4.
Lajl IVednefday, the Marblehead Regi
ment, conjifling of 300 men, turned out, un
der the command of Lt. Col. JVatson. 'They
were reviewed and infpeftcd ; after which,
a rain prevented any manauvres. The con
duit of the troops, while under arms,juflificd
the opinion of the Presirunt, in his late
Speech—" That the Militia may be trained
to a degree of energy, equal to every military
exigency of the United States"—and they
received the approbation of numerous interest
ed observers. J generous entertainment was
given to the officers, and other gentlemen, in
the Academy ; and every thing was conduced
in a mofl agreeable manner.
<s»=g)'o© J <<3>'O.'O < O rf s> o 'O'*S»*S > '°©*
PHILADELPHIA,
JANUARY 8.
At a meeting of the Directors of the Bank
of the United States, held lafl. evening,
Thomas Willing, Esq. was re-elcOed
President.
The Directors of the manufacturing
Society of the State of New-Jerfcy, have
published the scheme of a Lottery for rais
ing the sum of 39,000 dollars 011 266,000
dollars, deducting 15 per Cent, from the
prices. This Lottery consists of 38,000
Tickets in which there are 14,539 P"zes
and 23,461 blanks—being about one and
an half blanks to a prize—Tickets at 7
dollars each—The high prizes are, one of
20,000—one of 10,000, Two of 5,000 —
•five of 2,000 —Ten of 1000, and Twenty
of 500 dollars.
The peace, honor and prosperity of the
United States, are considerations of no im
portance in the view of men who appear deter
mined to award the palm of merit to those
exotic politicians, who have for months been
laboring to difaffed the people to the govern
ment, and to the adrnmlflration —but, fays n
correspondent, impartial and candid minds
will do juflice to the patriots of their country ;
| the early disclosure of the machinations of
NOES,
Norfolk, Dec. 25.
from a correspondent.
theft who intended that the United Statet
flo' lt', ere this day, haw been plung.-d in the
horrors of war, was the diSate of real pa
trittfm —and was made by men who have
unformly maniftfledproofs oft love to their
country in a series of labors for the public
god. It is a fad that the mofl dijlinguifhed
American patriots ere made the objeSs of the
viltjl abufe,from the pens of the vilcfljlan
derers-—fame of whom are exotics, who have
no feeling fur the American name, Fortune or
Charafler
Proceedings of the Legislature of South-
Carolina.
The governor sent to the house the fol
lowing mtlfage:
Mr. speaker, ai d Gentlemen of the House
of Reprefentaiioes,
I have tliis moment received a letter
from the Secretary of the Treasury, a co
py of which I take the earlielt opportu
nity of communicating to your honorable
house. Wm. MQULTRIE.
Columbia, Dec. 9, 1793-
Letter from the Secretary of tbe Treasury,
Sir,
The commifiioners for fettling the ac
counts between the United States and the
individual States, having made their final
report to the President, dated the 29th of
June, 1793, I am to announce to your ex
cellency, that a balance of one million t-wo
hundred and five thousand, nine hundred and
seventy eight dollars, has been reported by
the said commifiioners in favor of the state
of South-Carolina.
I have the honor to be, with eileem,
your excellency's moil obedient
servant,
Alexander Hamilton,
Secretary of the Treasury.
Referred to Meflrs. Rutledge, Ford
and Holmes.
Tuefdav, December
The committee, to whom was referred
the message of his excellency the governor,
enclosing a letter from Alexander Hamil
ton, Esq. secretary of the treasury of the
United States,
Report, that it appears, fix>m the said
letter, that a balance of one million, two
hundred and five thousand, nine hundred
and seventy eight dollars, has been report
ed by the commifiioners for fettling the
accounts between the United States and.
the individual dates, in favor of die State
of* South-Carolina. That it moreover
appears, from the ast of the United States,
pafled on the fifth day of August, 1790,
that the settlement of the said commifiio
ners is final and conclusive ; and that the
Hates in whose favor the balances are
found, are entitled to have credit for the
fame on the books of the treasury of the
Uaited States, and have the fame funded
upon the like tenns with the othar part
of the domestic debt of the United States,
but that the fame (hould not be transfera
ble.
Your committee beg- leave to observe,
that the said balance will enable the public
to discharge not only that part of the debt
which has not as yet been funded, but also
to make considerable, and they hope ade
quate provision for the payment of all the
debts which are justly Sind fairly due from
this state to the creditors thereof.
Your committee therefore, recommend,
that the foregoing report be printed mail
the gazettes of this state, so as the good
citizens thereof, who are holders of indents
and other public securities of this state,
{hould be guarded agaiuil the schemes of
(peculators,, and prevented from parting
with such indents and securities, for con
fiderationa that may be below their value.
Resolved, that this house do agree to
the report.
Ordered, that the several printers of this
(late do publiih the report in their gazettes.
Bv order of the House,
JOHN SAND FORD DART,
Clerk of the House of Reprefentativis.
SHIP NEWS.
Arrived at Norfolk, Dec. 2s.
Ship Bacchus, Vanneman Jamaici
Brig Experiment, M'Coflcie Antigm
Sch. Porcupine,Barron, St.Bartholomew
PRICE of STOCKS.
Philadelphia, January 8, 1794
6 per cents, 1
J*.. -
lof to iof\
3 ditto,
Deferred,
14 per cent, advance.
U. S. Bank,
N. A. ditto, 20 ditto ditto.
Pennfvlvania do. 7 ditto ' <livto.TO THE PUBLIC.
r pHF. undernamed < ommittce, appointed by
A " soctmy tor .he- institu
tion and St'PPORI C.I FIRST-DAY or
SUNDAY SCHOOLS in ihe civ of Philadel
p'lia and the d:liri£t ol Soutnwaik he
Noithern Li v«ica," to fqhcu further fulilcrip.
tioni for the fuopon o! ihe fchooN which the
fuid locuiv h.ivc di?b'i(hftl, take the ;ibcity to
H ro r U I f •,] 1 . W
Thai, all hough the frhoolf were fufpcnrlcd
during the period of the lare av.*iui faUrtnty
vi'h which our city «• o<i iuburbs have been at
si they are now Jgd-M opener) ior the ficc
Sviui fTion and education of poor children.
I i, : ii. t rc. Mi' V t>ci ?»<»f< .n$ • r<i i h,- <il.l h
>i m; <>i : lit.-If L- lioiili ai e• nc ( .■( C, I > oni Ihe
c'' < in il ii '.<"<* «>l Ihr 'iff {>. lu« if.;: lilt a
H'.'m ' t i o ! O'T-ljrtM> Hi ihuue ni .til •>.<• means
ijvc wild 1 ihc hand ol bcmvukiKc
o' rd
That, former experience has, most plcaftngly,
v'etifi d •he fond: ft hopes of lite fiteuds of this
in(ti iitioii. with re«»arji tn the piogrtfs an*) ad
yanrrmcrit of the children, who hav« heretofore
|;r< 11 nndrr us care, in the uTeful branches of
education which it has afford, d. Referring lo
this I- a: and To the ndd'efj to the publ r, on
tirt fuiij £), nubltlhed in »he nr wfpapers of this
env mi the » hi d month lift, when about eight
and ivin'y children of both fcxes had
f - • f.'k o o» ihr tv n. fits ..fforded by the-fociety,
m ihr»e hnin'r d and twenty more were
icM'v Ireviving infinitum in their
ils, n iin*v oulv ifmams to be obfeivcd,
t'-? '' i • •in n v 11 Ik f>c„t V arc gr a' I \ i o'uffi
f >•' 'mi cut and
•n ■.u t<• lot !»14- |I \ Q I O I< 11 I<" l|
iio w.' H nti'' [L.v lo decline
fut'fr
t l <'ir ?■ • 10 ih»-ir fcllow-cr."rrns 'or
»f>r»r C in lav>»r of thffr fchonls, ill Ocdei
f n i 1c 1' h«* no iii '■■■'iifi'i >•] (rum ihtm
tr mi r.,
h'<• II * • I'T.l f. I ;•!? I'l 'M' r'is,
■ '< IV>* . jr,,, jfrly f,.
T!w O.lMic a
If i cH to ft) omt ? (.hint .'tu? i ftah tihim n', < ;•!■
[ri«
CM', .If. 1 M p"l' .] 1'
V. • (• :• ,-1 ■ )<•'.
hi
fr> -a 'n:i* r-»T {>c hr'tiT cii'-
}■' '• (\ n!, '• \ (• v. mo r«• n .-If. r<j i», 'han f>y
1 1- •1: -I- tnr ;->• i.-c <->? ihe H il .fion of u fc! u!
knriw ai'.r iif : h;- y »or jnd ' pfiir! 1< fs.
r\., J).
recc v<.d !i
of '.hp ''>("$»
p;iun»«Hiri doiM'ions will hf gratefully
»v tiit under named cominiuec on be-
F Senear I.argr,
].i. oh C ju(l ttun,
J im s T'lHt',
Pr,<- V!. ~! Ui on,
1 nomn P. Cope,
ToT oh P >rr,
P-lc,
* H ■ Hie,
J"frph J* roes,
Jonathan Pmrofe,
Gpo'sc Mode,
John
V.' -Xmi lii!>is,
I'. . j4jiiii *»av.
N.i !i.if(! Falconer,
Ji if Sn*r old's,
S • i m i Scortcn,
Pet r Birker,
M'Grrp,
Habere R .<1(1 on.
Thomas A' mat,
Gcoigc William?,
Jan. t
ADVERTISEMENT.
FOR the benefit of tho<e who maybe con
cerned it may not He improper so notice,
that t'ie U.iired State*, by their A <5t of the i 2 th
of February 1793, ordered that aIJ Claims of
the description therein mentioned, and wh : ch
originated previous to the 4th of March 1789:
be piofented nt the Treasury or or before the
fiift day of Mav 1794, otherwile they will
" tor ever thereafter, be barred, and exclu
-44 ded from settlement or ?|lowance.'' And
as there may be several Creditors of the Uni
ted State*, holding Certificates ot other Se
cuities, which so 111 a part of the Domcftic
D.-V, and who wilh to fubferibe to the Loan,
they are reminded that the term for receiving
sub c riptions at the Treasury, is by the Ast of
the United States, pa fled the second of March
Jnft - , extended to the last dav of June, 1794.
The following is an extatt from the Adi of
Limitation above referred to :
I. üße it enacted by the Senate
and H»u ! e qf Reprefenratives of the United
St* re* of America, in Congress aflentbled—
That a!) claims upon the United States, for
Servces Supplier, or for other carle, mat
ter oftthis;, ftirnifhed or done, previous to
the 4th day of March 1789- whether founded
upon Cert ficate*, or other written documrrt
i. >Nt Puhli< Officers or othetwi e, whirh have
no. already beer bared by anv Ast of Limi
tati'in, and jvh'ch ftjaH not be presented at
the Treasury before the fr ft day of May 1 794,
fh i'l fo>- :-ver after be barred and pre'fcrjbed
f'n.n settlement or allowance : Provided,
that nothing herein contained, (hall lie cm.
ft tied t6 a.Tcft Loan-Office Cet t'ficate*, Or
tificates ..f final Settlements, Indents of ln
tereft, Balances entered in the books of the
regiftcr of t>e treafuryconinioKly called regif
tered certificates, loans of monies obtained in
foreign countries, or certificates issued pu '*■
airt to the Ast, intitled " An Ast, making pro
vision for the Debt of the United States.
To be Sold,
AT FBI FATE SALE,
A Valuable Lot of 16
A:ie« of LAfCD, Ijtngonthc grrai road lead,
in* from P tgieton In Tienton, i J miles fiom
Princeton ; with a tan-vard, batk-houfe, bram.
house and currving.fhop, a never failing ft.eam
of water running through the fame ; a good
dwelimg-houfe, wilti an entry and two rootr.i
on the lower flt.jr, and three an the upper floor;
a kilchcn adjoining, with a cellar under lite
■whole, and a well of water arthe door; also,
170 bearing apple-trees, and two orthiee acres
ofw.it. red meadow. There will beanindif
pitiable title given. Any person inclining 10
puicbafr. nuv know the termi of sale by lp .
plying to the Subscriber on the premifei
MATTHEW CLARKE,
September 14, 1793. (e pf w)
Encyclopedia,
JUST PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Book feller, at the Stone House, in Scc«nd-
Itreet Philadelphia.
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionary
Ot A ts, Sciences, and Mil'cellaneous
Literature, an a Plan entirely new i
THIS volume contains principles of Levels,
Liberty, Doctrine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, L logarithms, Logic, Hiltory of Lon
don, Longitude. Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetrfm, Malts, His
tory of Mao, Mirria.v, Mary, Maryland,
Mafoury, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous article*, illultrated with Twen-
ty two Copperplates.
A; a number of families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
a "ere' urned. T. Dobfoo, solicits the favor
of the fubfenbers to call or fend for their vo
lume*, that they may be Supplied as early as
ooffible.
X ie TtNTH volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an impcrfeft state, some ac
cotmr of the eafon of that impe fedtion should
be iven On the Bfh of September lafi, the
Pub'i/her had the misfortune ps having his
Printing- OtSce burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other -articles, the figures, with
which he was printing the tables or lo
garithms, heionging to the preient volume,
were melted down by the v iolence of the fire.
A ; a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, he was under the necessity of pub
lifhing the volume without the ie tables; but
hopes he /hall be able to publilh them with the
next volume which is now in considerable for-
iio' i( HI 'in- > mem.
wai d tefs.
/ lie Publilher embraces this opportunity of
expreiTing his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of reprefcn.ting to such of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfible necefiity of
punctuality, both in taking up "he volumes as
early as poffibie after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the fub
feribers having not only one, two, three, &c,
volumes, and several volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the commencement; and though the iim
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpaid lays the Publilher under
very serious embarraflment,and deprives him
of the use of many Thoufandsof DolJars which
at this time would be of very cflential service.
For these reasons the Publilher finds himfelf
under the necellity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but onjy to those who
take and pay to the time of publication.
December 10. 2awtiJ.
Nnt Jhih, ) T)Y virtue of a Writ to me
aulTexl.ou.iiy.fr. 5 Ddircftcd, issued out of
the High Court ol Chancery of New. Icrfey, at
the futt of William Shipley against John Mine
and others; I Ihall expose to file at Publi; Ven
due,onthe sixth day ol February next, between
the hour, of Twelve and rive in the Afternoon
of the fame day, on the PremiCr,,,he following
dcfc, ,bcd T-aft of Land, with i, s appurtenance.,
ri'uaieintheTownfhipof Oxford and County
o. Suflex, beginning at a Chefnut Oak Tree, cor.
ner of Daniel Cox's land, and finding in the
line of a foi mer fuivey niadelo Thomas Sleven.
son, being marked with the letter B. and th.n.e
extending along Coxc's line (si. ft; louih filty.lt.
g'ees writ firty.fi,e chat... and feventy.five links
to a Black Oak Treecorner of Jofcph Shtppeo'i
laud (second) fouih nine deg.ees and fifteen mi
nute. weft nine.v chains and sixty fi.e H„ ks to
a to- ked White Oak Tree, marked w i,h the lel
t-n » and B ano.htr ol th, said Sh.ppen's cor,
ner. (tht.d) thence north eighty degree., east one
nun:! ied and forty-five chains, 10 a post on the
motherly fide of Paquaofte-River, being also ,
eornrr ol John Reading', land (lourthj thence
north thirty-nine drgrees wefl, nne hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place of beg uiling
containing nine hundred and thirty acres with
the usual allowance for road, and high ways-
The fame Prrmifes a.e wiihin eight mile, of the
River Delaware, and there is thereon a convent,
ent Gi-ft M.ll wnh two pair of Stone—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fuUrcient stream of
.ater fur ther uft-a Dwelling House. Store
Houlc, and icveral (mall building*.
r. j MARKTHOMPSON, Sheriff.
Dated 22a day of July, 1793.
notice
TS hereby given, to the Mmm, of the
JL Insurance Company of North-America
That the third Inftalntent, being Two Dollars
on each (hate of the Stock, is to be paid, a
greeably to the Conftitntion, on the second
Monday [rhe 13th day] of January next: And
a Central Al te ,, n g of the Stockholders ii to be
beldjm the fucce«din s day, for the purpose of
choosing Ftjutn DinStrj, examining into the
Situation of th. Company', Affairs, and ma.
king such additional Rules and Regulations
as they (hall judge ueceflary.
EBCN£ZCK HAZARD, Secratanr.
c ' '*• mw&f t 3 . ij
Vol. X,
VOLUME X. OF
sr WHICH
The D'Tere ir Scie-ices and Arts,
are dtgejled into the form of
Dillinft Treat.es or Svftems :
advertisement.
A New Publication,
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by
R. AIT KEN,
No. 22, MarketJlreet,
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME*
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at Philadelphia, for promoting Ufefu!
Knowledge, Vol. 3- Price *of in boards
The fubferibers are requested to call
as above directed for the 3d vol. where may
be had, complete setts uniformly printed.
Contents of Vol. IJ.
t. An efl*ay on those enquiries in Natural Phi.
lofophy, which at present aremoft benefici
al to the United States of North America.
Dr. Nicholas Collin,
2. Conjeftur«s concerning the formation of
the earth, & c . Dr. B. Franklin.
3. A new and curious theory of Light and
Heat. Dr. B. Franklin.
4. Delcript on of the process to be observed
in making large (heistsof paper in the Chi
nese manner, with one smooth furface.
Dr. B. Franklin.
5. Queries and conjectures relative to Mag
netifin, and the theory of the Earth.
Dr. B. Franklin.
6. Explanation of a singular phenomenon, firft
observed by Dr Franklin, and not fatisfac
to. ily accounted for. Mr. R. Patterjon.
7. An account of an Earthy Subftaßce found
near the falls of Niagara and vulgarly cal
led the Spray of the F?lls; together with
some remaikson the Falls.
Robert M'Cai/finy M. D.
8. Observations on the probabilities of the
duration of Human Life, and the pfogrefs
of papulation, in the United States of Ame
r'ca* William Barton, Efy.
9. A letter containing observations made at
Lake Erie, on that singular phenomenon,
by seamen termed looming.
Andrew Fllicot FJq. I
10. An Account of the Sugar Maple-Tree '
of the United States, and of the methods '
of obtaining Sugar from it, together with
observations upon the ad vantages both pub
lie and private of this Sugar. *
Benjamin Rujk, M D.
it. Memoir on the use of the Thermometer
in difcoveiing Banks, Soundings, & ( .
Jonathan WiiJiams. Esq.
12. An Account of the most effectual means
of preventing theMeleterious consequences
of the bite of the Crotalus Horridus, or Rati
tie Snake. Benjamin Smith Bar/an, M. D.
13. Magnetic Observations, made at the Uni- ,
verfity of Cambridge, (MafTachuTetts.)
. 1 &r. S. tVillia.us.
.4- Accurate determination of , he right as
cenfioti .nd dcchnation of Boo fe ,, a , ld the
Pole Star. Andrew EH,colt, Eft.
>5- Accoun tof several Houses in Philadelphia,
(truck with Lijhtning, on June ?t h, ,780
, OavU Rutcnhnfe. Efy.
.6 An Account of the effects of a stroke of
Lightning on a Houle furnilhed with two
Conductor,. Da.ti RltUnhcufc, ani Fr . ncis
napkinjon, tjars.
17- Experiments and Observations on Evaoo
ration'"cold Air. c. IV,Jl ar , M. Q
18. Poftfcnpt to Mr. Ba. ton's Letter 'r„
Dr. Rittenhome, of the ,7, of March. ,\ 9l
19. New Notation of Music.
2 ° M TT tian ' "" the Tk«ry^rw«er
Aflillsj OCC' py yVafifi
19. Astronomical Observations.
David Rittcnhcufr.
A letter relative to a method of
the sum of the several powers of the Sines,
, , , . D "" d Xittcnhnfe, if..
2i. Index Florae Lancaftrienfis.
Htnrue MukUUor, D. I),
"i " f the l ,ower of Dr. Bar
u ' " ,m P rovcd by James Rumlev,
with a description ot the mill. W. Harm/*
23. A Thermometrical Journal of the tern
peratureof the Atmosphere and Sea, on a
royage to and from Oporto, with explana
tory ohlervations thereon.
„ Jonathan Williams, If.
34- F, ft memoir of obligation, on the plants
denominated Cryptogatnick.
, . M. Dt Bctuwii.
25. A letter, containing observations on the
ancient WO! ks of Art, the Native Inhabi
tants, &c. of the We«eri, Country.
Majer Jonathan Hurt.
An , accoon t of some of the principal dies
employed by the North American Indians.
Extratfed by the late Mr. Hu.h Mart,,.
*'<•- it accounr of the bencficial cffecfh of the
Cassia Chamzcrifta in recruiting worn-out
ands, and in enriching such as are natural
ly poor; together with a botanical descrip
tion of the plant.
]•""! Cretnuay »/ Virginia.
1 8. An account of , bill on the borderj of
North Carolina, supposed to have been a
volcano, in a letter from a Continental of
ncer, to Dr. J. Greenway y Virginia.
29. An Accountof a poisonous plant, grow
ing Ipontaneonfly in the fosthern part of
Virginia. Extr a ft c ,| from , pil|l J b
7<"»« C.rtivuay, Vtrrhit.
33. Description of a Machine for mealurii.it a
fll.p's way. Frmi , H , pki „r„ n £/ 8
31. An Inquiry into the qneftion, whether ,he
Apis Me.linca, or true Honey-Bee, is ana
tive of America. ienjamn, Sm,:h B.ntnM D.
32. An Account of a Comer.
finid Riltenhou/i, [Jq.
33-Cadmu. or » Treat,ft on tl>e Elements of
Written Language, illuftratinf, by a Philo
fophica) division of Speech, the power of
each charaftei, thereby mutually fijtine the
Orthography and Orthoepy. With an EfTav
«n the mode of tu«bin C the ttcaf, or Swil
and canfeqnently ,Dumb to speak, by Win.
Thornton, M. D. Honored with the Ma
gellanic Gold Medal, by the Philosophical
Society, in December, 1791 3
Ctiamus is printed in a fine 8. vol. and fold
by the Publisher hereof.
34. Observations on the Tlieorv of Water-
M,lls - «' Wiring.
35. An Improvement on Metalic Conductors
or Lightning rods. Mr'. Robert Pattcr/on.
Honored with the Magellanic Premiuml by
an Award of the Society in December 1792.
36. An easy and expeditious method of dis
sipating the noxious Vapour common]/
found in Wells and other fnbterraneous
places. ihnczcr Robivfon, Eft.
37- A method of draining Pnndt in level
grounds. J e^e Higginj.
38. Observations on the feveritv of the win-
ter, 1779, ,780.
Rev. Matthew tVi/far.
3s. A Description of a new- Standard for
Weights and Mcafures; io a letter from
Mr. John Cooke, of Tipperary in Ireland.
40, Description of a Sprtno-Bi ock, designed
to assist a Veflel in failing. Francis Hopkin
forty tjq. Honored with the Magellanic
Gold Medal, by an Award of the Society
in December 1
December 20.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Stcond-Jlreety
Seconddoor below the corner ot'Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general AJforiment of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be disposed of on the lowest terms.
Dec. 23. uiw&ftf
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldsmiths Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
jtin elegant Jtjfortment of
SILVER b 5 PLATED WJRE,
JEWELLERY &fin. CUTLERY,
Which they will di,fpo!'e of on the most rea
sonable terms. Deviccs in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, done as usual.
December 24,
A LL perrons having any demand against
1 *■ the Estate and Xtfcft': of Mis. MARY
SINDR.EY, widow, late of Frankford, Ox
lord townOlip, in the Stats of Pennsylvania,
deceased; are desired to produce thetr ac
counts to Jacob Le;hf.k and Wnti*MC*E«D,
(in Frankford, ut'orelaid,) Executors and Ad
ministrators of the above in O'der for leitle
ment. And whoever is indebted to fairi Es
tate, &c. are requested to mike payment to
the aforefaid Adminiilrators, on or before the
toth of Marcb, 1794, 01 they will be dealt
with according to Jaw.
Frankford, Dec. 16.
Stock Brokers Office
J Wall-ftrcrt, Mfw-Yorr.
i I HE Subfcribcr intending to confinr hirnfelf
A entirely to the PURCHASE &SALF or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b,g s " of !
ftr his femccsto his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Brakrr. Thofewhomay please.
lo favor him with their bufineb, may depend
upon having ,t tranfaSed with the uvraoft fide.
I'tyit.d dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia. Boilon, or any
/I!" 0 ' he Un,,cd W'H be ftndly
" ndcd to - LEONARD BLKECKER.
NEW BOOKS.
Now opening for Sale,
By M. C A R E Y,
No. 118, MARKET-STREET;
A large and valuable colle&ion ofBOOKS,
imported from London in the Mohawk.
Dec. 19.
Seat of War.
For Sale, at M. CAREY's Stort,
No. 118, Market-ilreet,
A Sheet Map of the
French Adrian an d Dutch Netherlands, in
which the prog re f, of the present War may
iT i " "i k ' hs "J "
And a Map of the Three NortliernDiftrift,
of France, divided into Departments
P1 tec $ of * dollar.
Maps of the United
State, : _Any public spirited gentlemen, PQ f.
ni,ttr ' l ', l " r , COrreai "« a " d in-Prov
in a the Maps of the fe vera I States, will lay
M.Carey under very particular obligations
by communicating then,. He is i„ immediate
want of .onie lor NVw-Jerlcy and Delaware ;
ofwn.ch States he is „„ w preparing Maps.
Guthrie's Geography:
The fubf'ci iption Cor this wo k will be con.
tinned open, at the prefenr rate of twelve
dollars, till the firft day of November next •
alter wIllcll) it will be raised
PHILADELPHIA ,
Trihtid by JOHN FENNO, No. *
South Fourth-Street.
eodaw,
fmv&ftf
t fcftf.