evening
[No. 99 of Vol. V.]
For Amsterdam,
The new faft-faiiing, copfcr
b /toiled SHIP
mm ADRIAN A,
K. Fitzpatrick, Matter.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, W ll fell with
all convenient speed. 1-or freight or pafTage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, orto
THOS. & JOHN ZETLAND.
"N. B. Patlengers will be landed in -i-ng
land if required.
March 6, 1794- a —
For Sale or Charter,
j^£jANDROMACHE,
(An American bottom)
— -John Moore, Majkr.
IS a'ftout good vclT*!, about two years o!'l,
burthen 232 ton*, hat only made- three voy
age;, and may be lent to sea at a Imall ex
pente. She may be seen at Vine-ft'eet wharf,
and the terms marte known by application to
WHARTON *d LEH IS.
March 2i. ■ dt /
For Norfolk iff Fredericks burgh,
SALLY,
A staunch good veflel, will fail in a few
days. For freight or piflige, apply to the
matter on board at Chefnut street wharf, or
JOSEPH ANTHONT & SON.
March 31.
Just Imported,
In tb:Jhtp Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
peterjburgh in Kufjiu, cuid now landing a *
RuJj J"s wharf,
Hr.MP,
RT SSI A SHEETINGS,
'R V£NS DUCK,
Rl SSI A DVCK,
Ani lot {.ik at the (lores of the fubfenber in
Walnut ftreel, N. • s«.
John Donnaldfon.
April 4. diww&.tt
J ust Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
00 Walnnt-ftr.eet wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bfiles Holland Duck,
Ditto Oinaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Class Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious fixes.
Sheathing Paper,
Szyedes Iran, fquojre and fiat bars,
Hair RibJ/and, Ac. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, Isfc. &c.
FOR SALE BV
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The qbovc-menUoned Ship is for Sale—
thouldapplication be made 'iuithlfi a few days ;
otherwise Jhe will take freight for Amjlcr
dam.
March 1, 1794. d—tf
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying.
gnottud,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
thole of the public iq general.
Ha continues to make and repair at the
shortest notice, all. kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeysard chaits, and harness
ofevovy description, in the neatest: and Be weft
feihiop now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capita) workmen, he has
not the lekft doubt buj he will be able to give
fftisfa&ion to those who please to employ him.
He has for sale, fevera) carriages almost
finifhed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, bung on steel springs, a light phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fuikey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 179.-1 nisith3m
of tibrllrafcli
A PERFECT
Aflortment of Hanging Paper,
high coloured and plain.
White (ilk Stockings, high dreifed and put
up Englilh fnfhion.
handfomett artificial Flowers and Fea
thers.
Some Lnoking Glass Plates to be fold by the
cafe.
Aftiw hampers of ChampaigtK wnie iix
years old.
And very beautiful Silk Cloaks, which on
account of the feafori will be lold low, and at
a long credit.
42 pipes Madeira wine,
and a few casks of Claret.
A Quantity of >
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
He will have for sale,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn hats, fins and cainbricki, claret in
cases, a quantity of window glass well sort
ed of all fizc<y and a few pair <>f remarkable
LooJci'»g Glaifes framed, all arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
March 22-
WANTED
A Servant,
TO wait on a single Gentleman. Enquire
at Nil. 165, Chefnut ftiect. |
BY THE SU OSCR I B£R,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
fuprrior quality in pipes, imported in the ship
. -\Vil niiigton.
OLD SHEI?RY WINE of the fii ft quality
in quarter calks, imported in the brig Nancy
capt. Gwin. from Cadi?-
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RAI3XNS, imported in ditto.
Pai t'cular TENERIFFE WINES,in pipes
hhd l ;. a-nd quarter calks, imported in the ship
Tiiotnat, capt. Skinner.
A few quarter cask* of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA. WINE.
George Meade,
Who has also, jnft arrived and for sale
A SMALL CARGO OF
NORRIS-COURT,
Back of the New Li'jivy, between Chefnut
and Walm c-Streets. '
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLYi n forms his friends and
the public in genera), that he continues
carrying on the business of #
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or wipdow-fliutters,dr.nft in tbe most
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders front the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All cQmmiflions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, fccond year of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
(March 6th> 1794, o. s.)
The Mimfter Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of newfpajfers within the
United States, are requested to republifh the
foregoing notice. d
Monday, April 1794.
IMPORTED
Jn the Brig George and Harriot, from
Havre de Grace,
AND FOR SALE BY
Louis Ofmont,
ALSO,
An elegant parcel of
Bearlkin MuiTs,
likewise
FOR SALE,
Lijbon Salt.
A quantity of eufpty fef f"le.
April, jf>
AND
ADVERT I S E R.
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
federal of which have appeared in circulation
within a few days past ; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be dtjlinguijhed by the following .
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank qf the
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
Tiie O. in the word Company is smaller
han theM. and other letters of that word,
o that a line extended from the top of (he O,
to touch the top of the M would extend con
fidsiably above the range of the wjiqle word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
The i and Jin the word promise are not
parallel, the yinclining much more forward
than thf >.
The engraving is badly executed,the strokes
of allelic Letters are stronger and the devioe
in the margin particularly ismuch coaricr and
appears darker than in the true bill?. Some
ot eh counterfeits bear date in 1751—Where
as tho Bank was not in operation till Decem
ber, and no five dollar bills were issued in
that year.
Twenty J)ollar Bills of tlx Bank <f North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the counterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above described ; the engraving is better exe
cuted, and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, in the body of the hill, are in number thir
teen in tbe genuine bills, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as defer ibed a
bove, the o being lp/f than th? w, aud others
fallowing.
There is no stroke to the / in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills tbe stroke is well
defined.
The letters cnt in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do t}oi come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tw and they go
ing below them.
The Signature j Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamp black and
oil, and differs from the other inksufedin
printing the biils and the calhier's iignature.
It is i'uppofed these forgeries were committed
in feme ot the Southern States, as all the ©ouff
terfcits thai have appealed* haye come from
thence, and tyo persons have been apprehend
ed in Virginia, on suspicion of being the authors
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any PerfojQ or Perfops who ftiall
discover and profccute to conviction tbe (evera 1
offenders of the following descriptions or any
of them, viz.
The pcrion or persons, who maoufa&ured
the paper on which the IHWs are printed.
The person or peifoas, who engraved tbe
platr s.
The printer or printers, ©f the biUs.
Every person who has a&ed as a principal in
any other way, in the cowtrtsrfcitißg and utter
ing the said bills.
THOMAS WILLING, President
of tta Bank United States.
JOHN NIXON, President of the
Bank of North America.
By order of the Committees of the Ref
pc£tive Boards.
shia, March 28, 1794*
PKiladel
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfWcads and in cases of 50 bottles catb.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wiae ;
In pipes, hogtheads and quarter casts,
FOR SALE fcY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South From lireet.
Jan. 2, 1794. dlt
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Mai ket-Street,
An Essay on Slavery,
Designed to exhibit in a new point ol view
its effects on mora/i, indufiry, and the peace oj
society. Some facts and calculations are olfered
to prove the labor of Jjetmcn to be much more
produflive than that ot Jlaves ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the mceflary conolofiun, that
flavcry is impolitic as well as unjufl.
Price 2,5 Cents.
. j.r
MADEIRA,
'ate.
[Whole No. 558.]
UNITED STATES.
NEWBEDFORD, March 24.
Wednesday 19th in(L was picked upon
the south fide of the Vineyard, the item
of a veflel, bearing the name of the (loop
Sally of Halifax.—Alfo about 60 bbls.
of Tar, with the mark S. S. and some
other initials our informant has forgotten.
—The body of a Negro boy, about two
years old was found last Monday drifted
on {hore near the fame place ; and'the
yard of a square rigged veflel, with a
fail snugly handed—being a large and hea
vy fail, supposed to belong to some large
veflel. The quarter deck and some other
parts of a large veflel have been fout>d
drove on Ihore on Noman's land.
NEW-LONDON, March 20.
Captain Williams who arrived in this
port on Saturday last, from Grenada, in
forms us he learnt there, that the British
forces which went against Martinique, had
taken poffeflion of the whole island, except
Fort Bourbon.
A (hip of the line being becalmed un
der one of the forts, met with such a re
ception, that {he was obliged to be towed
off; and had returned to Barbadoes, for
new masts, Btc. being in a very /hattered
condition.
Foreign Intelligence.
RECEIVED BY THE
BRITISH JANUARY PACKET.
(continued.)
PARIS, Jan. 5.
Atnand-Louis Philip.Culline, jun. bom
at Paris— 25 years of age, formerly Mi
nister Plenipotentiary of Louis XVI. at
Berlin, Adjutant-General of the army an
the Rhine, has, for Manoeuvres, Conspi
racies, &c. been Sentenced to foffer death.
The Revolutionary Tribunal has passed
sentence of death against Charles Barre,
Receiver of Contributions in the diftvidt
of Laffy, department of Mayence, for
conspiracy against the Republic ; against
Rene Foizer, from Poitiers, an Ex-noble,
for having assisted the Rebels of LaVea
dee; against Charles Faverolles, a native
of Paris, and a Constitutional Priest, and
Aid-de-Camp of Dumourier ; and against
Agatha Jolivat, the divorced wife of Bar
reau de Crevy, for criminal correspondence
with the enemies of the Repnblic. The
old Marshal Luckner has also been con
demned to death.
Another letter. from Toulon, datad
Dec. 24, states, that the executions go
on brifldy ; on the 21ft, 130 soldiers aild
citizens were shot; and on the 23d, fif
teen marine officecrs {hared the fame fate.
On the 23d, two Spanish Brigs with
provisions, and On the 23d, five large
Ships, three Spanish and two <jf them
English, coming with tro<>ps from Turk),
also entered the harbor, and were well re
ceived by the Republicans.
v The Combined Fleets are said to have
failed in a dreadful itorm, which did not
ceafc till the 23, they are supposed to
have borne towards the Island of Hieres;
a large (hip, dismasted, has been seen
from Toulon, seven leagues from theihore.
Anacharfig CloQts, too, it is said, will
be tried before the Revolutionary Tribu
nal. With refpeft to Thomas Paine, it
is generally believed that nothing will be
done again ft him for the present.
One of the chiefs of La Vendee, who
lately summoned Nantz, has been taken
piifoner, and (hot at Ancenis.
A letter from Ciotat, near Toulon, da
ted Dec. 23, announced, that on the 2.oth,
twenty-five marine officers .were (hot; that
upwards of 200 Spanish women remained
at Toulon, and upwards of 2000 sick and
wounded who had not time to embark ;
tfot the harbor is full of dead bodies ;
that upwards of 20,000 of the inhabitants
are said to have emigrated The enemyHHH|
is dated to have carried off seven or eight
/hips of. the line, among which are, Le
Commerce de Marseilles, La Pompee,
Le Conquerant, and a great nurtiber of
smaller vefiels.
SITTING of the JACOBINS.
At the Jacobins, said thit for
a long time past, Camille Defmoulins had
grazed the guillotine; and he denounced
him, for having; in one of his papers,
with a criminal intention, furnilhed arms
to the aristocrats. Collot d'Herbois and
Hebert vindicated the characters of Ron
fin and Vineent, arrested by order of the
committee 6f fjiiblic tafety. Hebert ac
cused Fahre d'Eglantine, of having ne
ver atchieved any civic a&ion, but com
posed many counter-revolutionary publica
tions. He denounced Defmoulins, who
since he had married a rich lady, had be
come the friend of aristocrats ; despised
tht true Jacobins, and ridiculed the minis
ter Botichatte. He' attacked Bourdon
de l'Oife for having calumniated Ronfin,
deposed Roflignol, and insulted the best
patriots.
The fame charges were repeated against
the fame persons at the Cordeliers. Ca
mille Dcf-noulins, who had proposed to
purchase back from the Englifli, the town
of Toulon for three millions, and of course
for one million more than they had given
for it, was struck off the lift. The im
mense fortune of Fabre d'Eglantine was
again mentioned ; it was asserted, that in
Augnitj 1792, he had 110 (hoes, and was
indebted to ail old cloaths-rtien. His sen
tence was adjourned till the next fitting
of the Jacgbins. '
A letter from Tours, dated the 17th
instant, states, that the Royalists have
fci2cd all the vessels, they fotind on the
rivets Isle and Vilaine ; put them on wag
gons, carts, &e. and taken them for the
purpose of making use of tliem to re-pass
tiie .Loire ; and that the rebel general
n Charnttr, was in light of Mortagne,
with a:: army of 12,000 men.
On the 14th inftar.t, the town of Ren
nes was declared to be in a state of siege,
which inclines us to fear, that the royal- ;
ifts •vt'hti were said to have been drowned
in the Loire, are approaching that town
in confideraHe force. 'Thfc measure has :
perhaps, been occasioned by their march
to Morbihan, which was announced to
the convention in the fittifig of the 22d.
In the vrry fame fitting were read, letters
from the vommiflloners' at Alenton, an
nouncing feme dispositions made by them,
which proves that ifi that quarter, there'
exitt* another army of toyalifts. We fee,
c'lerefore, one column of them directing
its march towards the eoafts of Britanny,
by the way of' L'Orierit, whilst another
is marching towards the coAst of Lower
Normandy, and bears down upon Cher
bourg. AU this iifcredits those reports,
which rcprefents the insurgents of La
Vendee to beat their last gasp.
Citizen Durand, adjutant-general of
•the avmv in Italy, lias been appointed
temporary commandant of Marseilles.
December 23.
Read a lettrr from general Ronfin,
whertin he refuted the charges against
him, contained in Phr'Hppeaux's report
to the convention.
Fouche, representative of the people at
Lyons, announced the death of Gaillard,
who, thinking himfelf abandonad by the
Jacobins, haddeftroyed himfelf. Gaillard
was the best friend of Chalier. On the
lothof August he was the firft whomount
ed to the affauk against the tyrant of the
Thuilleries, and he was there severely
wounded.
Collot d'Herbois, after Fouche's letter
had been read, caused all the members of
the society to take an oath never to survive
one of their brethren who (hould be at
tacked, and then proceeded in the follow
ing terms :
" I came here with the fame hopes I
entered the Convention. But the Con
vention 1 found futrcunded by its enemies
—a,nd you I found debating whether you i
ought to approve the mcafiircs we had ta- ,
ken. You ceased for a moment to be
strong, and the death of Gaillard was the 1
result of your weakness- ,
" 111-difpofcd people endeavor to alie
nate your minds from the Convention 1
you have countenanced libels, which have 1
disunited you, and armed you against one ;
another, and have accused the committee
of publie fafety of having filed the blood i
of Patriots. Old histories have been c
f-arch<'d in order to establish a contrast be- t
twee 11 times " loig'pSft," and that where- f
n we live. They endeavor to mitigate :
*
*
w.
tue .revolutionary movements. Wlio can
direct a thunder storm ?—AVell, such is ,
iiie revcriiioa. It' b flights mull pot ije
pr.eckjc, Far be it fjorp us to have an
idea L/f rnodeiit.i, Let ua remain Ja
cobins, let fas rem?.!n mountaineers, and,
save liberty." (Loud applaules.)
A member applauded these proportions
and again attacked Defmoulins
for having been moved to pity by the fate
ot the Cxirondilts ; he demanded the
judgment of every one who lhould pity
the fate of conspirators.
LevafTeur accuftd Phillippc *tix of hav
ing caused two deputies to vote for the ap
peal to the people, and,having treated du
ring a dinner, general* konhn and KofTg
nol like criminals, and the Jacobins'like
rogues.
Philippeaux maintained the truth of
a'l the facts contained in his report against
Ronfin. He declared, that he always vo
ted like a good mountaineer. He accus
ed the generals in La Vendee of having
filed the blood of 30,000 Republicans, &
of having lavished the public money.
Ronfin and RofTigno], he laid were con
stantly plunged in pleasures, and never at
the head of their armies, except on the
18th, when the former discovered the fe- .
cret of ckufing an army of 43,000 to be
cut to pieces by 3000 banditti, by placing
his army, artillery and baggage in a valley ;
inftcad of making himfelf mailer of the
heights, from which the rebels launched
the thunderbolts which destroyed our.
troops. He attributed to their stupidity,
that the banditti had passed the Loire,
for which purpose they had given them
two whole days. He denied the insolent
speech against the Jacobins with which
LevafTeur reproached him.
Hebert, called upon by LevafTeur, as
serted the truth of this reproach. The
fitting became stormy. Danton demanded .
the profoundeft calm> to hear this import- :
ant difcufiion.
Roberfpievre spoke to the fa (he purport.
He excused the intentions of Philippeaux,
but he Would have him prove his aiTertion,
that the committee of public fafety, th'ro'
mere obstinacy, had caused the deltruftion
of 30,000. ' Citizens,' he added,' whence
originate the commotions which agitate
you within a few days ? You are surround
ed here by the foreign powers. They
have placed you between the Moderantifm
which is borne down, and tht PctTlirem
treachery of those men, who set all in con
fufion. Phe taflics of our enemies contiit
in endeavoring to divide 11s, and to make
us destroy each other by our own hands."
Roberfpierre then declared, that all the
arrests complained of, had been decreed
alter a long difculfion in the committees.
He demanded, that the society should re
ly on the Convention and the Mountain,
and hear Philippeaux.
Philippeaux said, that on his return
from La Vendee, he had perceived in the
committee of public fafety a repelling kind
of .orms 5 that having not been able to
get a hearing, he had published his com
plaint in a pamphlet, of which he had no
more copies printed tliau were neceflary
for his colleagues.
" Tbou lieft," exclaimed LevafTeur
" thou haft even sent some copies to Samur
and Angers." (Murmurs.)
Philippeaux. " I will explain to you
the reafbn of Levaffeur's wrath against
me : I have caused a decree to be report
ed against the principles of an accumula
tion of farm-contra&s. This oepration
has caused to him the loss of an income of
500 livres a year. (Violent murmurs.)
Danton quoted the example of the Ro
mans, who forgot their private quarrels
when the enemy were at their gates :
The enemy are also at our gates, and we
are persecuting each other. Do all our
altercations kill one single Pruflian ? (Loud
applaufcs)—He demanded the efiablifh
ment of a committee to terminate the
quarreL
Bouthon asked Philippeaux, whether,
in his fbirl and confcienca, he really be
lieved that there had been any treafbn
committed in La Vendee I do," aii
fwered Philippeaux. « Then I demand
also a committee." This was decreed un
der the loudest acclamations of applaufc.
Collot.d' Herbois appeared at the bar,
to undergo the purificatory scrutiny.
He was received with the loudest buift <»f
applause.
Hebert moved, that while Collot was
upon the Tribune, he should give an ac
count of his operations at ,Lyous, and of
the inftru&ions he might have in his pcf
feffion refpefting General Ronfin.
Collot d'Herbois—" I congratulate my-
fclf, Citizens, that you have enabled me
ro.unbofoui myfeif with franknefs in the
toiJft of yob ! After two moQthsVbltncc
from "aris, for the piirpofe of fulfilling
th<' tailc with which yt. U: had charged ir.e,
, Ido not find again the public opinion :
Even my condudt'has appeared fulpicious.
i Several of my letters have met with.-dis
approbation : Obliged to explain myfeif
refuting rry million to LyOns before
the National Convention—l tonfefs, citi
zens, that 1 hesitate about the choice of
j my expressions, and that it was merely
J thro' the orical twills and circumlocutions
j that I durit face the queition. Sent by
j you to Lyons, to display the measures of
j terfor which the Nation had made the Or
j dcr of the Day against the traitors, I
| have not been foft in my operations.—
J 1 he evil was at a pitch when I arWved in
I that city ; even now it is not less high at
I Lyons, and in all the Southern Depart-
I merits.
I " Attempts have been made to draw
your pity upon the fate of the rebels, and
I those ideas of moderatifm fec?m to have
ftruclc many. We find it alledged agsiihft
I us a cume, .to have mace the Lyontle
J traitors perilh in a military manner; it
I was a matter of complaint, that they did
J not fall by the fidt discharge but is not
that punifhoient ttiil sweeter than the guil
lotine >. When 20 people are guillotined,
the lait who periflies, does he not fufFer
a twenty-fold death before he really does i
j The rebels do not die at the firft discharge:
But Charlier did he not die at the firft
stroke ? Would the National Aflerably,
outlawed by the rebellious Lyonefe, have
I died at tlif firft blow ? Always urider the
daggers of traitors, and exposed to perish
on pur million, would we have fallen at
One stroke ? The fenaticized Lyonefe wo
men have Charlotte Corde for their sole
patroness.
I Paris is the rendezvous of a great num-
J ber of Lycnefe. In concert with the re-
I latives of the traitors, they seek so often
| the Convention. I have been aflced here
to explain myfeif with regard to Ronfui;
here ought 1 to present to you, reflections
J that coincide well with the fecfret tricks
I which the federalifts excvcife in the midst
jof you. A quarter of an hour before
I Ronfin fetout from Lyons, it wasreport-
I that he had bten lunimon£d to appear
j at the bar ; and no fooiicr did he arrive '
j thaw he woa put under nrrett. -
I ail these facts collated be accounted for ? .
Ronfin lias well perfonned his duty; he
was in the full latitude of the Revolution,
I and the ariftocratscaufed him to bearreft
j ed. The Lyonefe alone beheld him with
terror; and for this he incurred their ha
tred.
I " The Lyoaefe ladies made use of all
J pofiible means to corrupt the Soldiers
Adultery, the prostitution of their charms,
I amorous philtres—nothing in fa£t, has
been spared to corrupt the Defenders of
the People; but they shewed themulves
Republicans, by fcoming their chai
I The chief could not be corrupted ; other
j means were used to get rid of him. A con
spiracy exitts, which ought to be deft ray
ed, if you wilh to save the Republic."
I (To be continued.)
LONDON, January 6.
j A great number of (hips freighted for
Genoa are daily puting intoLeghornas the
Bntifh (hips of war stationed off that fort
will not fufFer them to enter it. The Ge
noese merchants lave already refufed to
purchase any Briti/h linens, and the Senate
is hourly expeacd to take forne more im
portant resolutions.
I Letters from Alencon and Caen, of the
19th and 20th, tlate, that the royalists
were Ihewingthemfelves in great strength
in the adjoining diftriftfc A part of them
I were defeated by the tepublicaris on the
I 22d, but they (till remain in great strength.
I January 11. "jjf
The vicinity of Ls liogoe is judged by
those who know that country well, to be
the best place for the debarkation of the
Britilh forces. The harbor of La Hogue
j is a very fate one at ali seasons of the year,
iaad Cherbourg, and the whole peninfula|
would immediately fall, upon the landing
of a refpe&able force. '
Sir James Wallace, it is reported, will
hoist his flag on board the Sherncfs, of 44
guns, and command the- naval department
of Earl Moira's expedition to the coast of
France, 111 the place of Admiral Macbride;
who is to command a squadron going to
the coast of America, 011 which occasion
he will 'hist fife Sag to the Minotaur, of ■
■74 ST»ns.
Atecwgft the lopHfti with the Eail of %
Mojra's army, is Admiral L»e Graft
chief captain in tbc ViUe de Paris' and
the Captain's h"c*h<r, who was taken in
La Nfr.iiph, by Pefc Williams, ]„ tfl .
Flora frigate. This last gentleman h,,
been in thirty-five n£tUw» with the iwalift
army, and is covered with wounds. They
aieboth excellent irrigators, and part ion.
larly well acquainted with the coalt of
Fiance in every part.
The French aunv on the frontier of
Flanders will no doubt imitate the exam
i pie of that of the Rhine, and attempt aa
invasion. This, it would appear, has icme
time been expected by the Ponce of Saxe
Cobourg, who has been patting hit arm/
in a position of proper defence.'
It is a too cbitain truth, that the valottr
and discipline of the allies have not been
able to refill the great superiority of tH»
French upon the Rhine. Though several
viftones wcie gained by the duke of Brun
fwick and General Wurmfer, in which
many thomands of the French were killed,
yet frejh legions have poured in, and at
lci.t have prevailed, fry fu penality o4'»um
bets, over tut wont-out forc<x opposed to
them.' $A rr
Such is the.confidence of the monicd
men in the ability acd integrity of the mi
ni|ter, and &ch their fenfimeuta of the
justice and policy of the war, that any
iums are now ready to be supplied that the
exigencies of government may require.
An Algeiine frigate, of 36 gusts and
300 men, was at Alicant on the 19th of
November. This vi/Tcl was a prefcnt from
the king of Franc? to Sultan iSelim 111.
who afterwards preferred it to the Dey.
1 he Dutih Teftel* then in port felutedthe
Algerufe with nine guns, which was re
turned ; they also made the captain feme
prefcnp, who sent the Dutch consul word,
that the Dey had'given him and all the
cruifrrsftrid ©.drrj cot to moled the
Dutch Flag. _ Xliv Dutch consul has also
received intelligence from Algiers, 0/ the
Dey's sincere with to live in peace with
the Republic.
Letteis :ro.n Nnnfz, dated December
(6, contain, with Jf'j'fft to the fituatiofl
of the rbyalift arinien, accounts widely
different front t«, ; lt3 read in the Na
tional Convention, vVhilll the latter re
pr. lent them as defeated every where, nnd
at tne eve of being totally <-eftroyed, the
furo.»<r>;; ,i™ tl„ mU. —*— 1 0
Mr. Coitwright, of Doncafter, reco
vered three patients, who were in extreme
danger, fro« : * very bad putrid fever, by
only giving thtm common yeast. The
quantity was two tabic fpoonfuls, taken a
bout three times, at the interval of three
lr four hours. Their recovery was incre«
dibly sapid i they infiamly felt themfclves
greatly refrefhed, hiio in a few hour, they
found their strength returning,
| Fhirteeft merchantmen are just arrived in
the river Hi unto from the United States
of America, and upwards of twenty fail
more are now upon their paflage, and their
arrival may be daily exported.
The average price of fugsr computed ■
• rom the returns made in the week ending
the ift of January, 1794, « «h iou. 4 d".
per cwt. exclusive of the duty of cuftems
paid or payable thereon, on'the importa
tion thereof into Great Britain.
DOVER, January 10.
A gentleman who anived last night in
the Carteret packet boat from Oftend,
iays, that the French made a violent at
tack on the Pniflian army fin-rounding
Landau, and forced them to retreat, by
w hjch means the French were enabled to
relieve the fortrefs with troops j but that
the Prussians soon after rallied, and re
pined their former iltuation, in complete.
1} blocking Landau, and that as the gar
nfon were in great want of provisions the
additional number of troops must unavoid
ably increase their diitrefe.
Congress of the United States.
Houje of Reprefentativet
L A pril 4,
The following was corjimwikaMd by tfc«
1 pendent of the United Htdta.
[ThansiaTWH.]
Philadelphia the ?th Qerminol id year of the
i rt/ich Rrpubiic, out and indiv\flble-
Jh. I 1 auch'et, Minifier Ptenfootettfary of
the French Republic,*
To Sir. Randolph Secretary «f State of
the U-ni'cci State*'.
A$ yoy are auout to lay besot tht Pre-
Mm* a flattment of ;be ch'trm rekuvi toi
X"
the vexations and spoliations which . your. I
Commerce has experienced, you will doubt
lels receive With pleafrtrt some edai'rciJe
ments on the complaints %vell or ill founded,
which have b»en brought against the priva
teers & 2 (hips of war of the French Repub
lic. You will not o'oferve with lei's plealure
in my reply, that the National Convention
has already done- justice t(J foif.e of the de
mands of the merchants of the United States,
and are now occupied in i"ati9iying some o
thers.
In the lift of complaints against the repub
lic, of Franee the complainants urge that .the
French privateers do net less harrafs your
con\merce than thofj of the Engli/h.
To this assertion I answer by two observa
tions which I l'ubmit to your impartiality.
I. It is now some time since any more
privateers have failed out of the puns of
France, and the number of thole which have
been armed in our Islands is not to be com
pared with those pirates which the illand of
Bermuda aiorte fends forth.
a. If any of your merchants have fuffered
any injury by the conduct of our privateers,
(a thing which would be .contrary to the in
tention and express orders of the Republic)
they may with confidence, address theml'elves
to the French government, which will never
refufe justice to those whose claims lhall be
legal. _ '
I feel a pleasure in thinking, and faying
to you, that it is not the fault o£ the French,
if commercial property, even of enemy-na
tions, has not been refpeifted amidit the hor-.
ro:% of w^r.
This proposition of natural right was made
by one of out' legillative aflembiies to the
Britiih, who rejeifid it. i
idly. It is imputed to tiuo tf our /hips of
<u>ar that they have Committed enormities on
your vejjels. y
Should the fatft be proved, the Captains
of those two vellHs are as culpable towards
France as they are towards the United States,
for having sifted In a manner contrary to the
inftr«(ftions thty have received: The govern
ment, upon information of the crime, will
fnoft certainly punish the authors of it. It
would Be unjust to accuse a nation generally
taf the aist of some individuals, when that
nation disavows their condudV, and repairs
the wrongs which they have committed.
J'ily. Certain aifts of opprefjion in the courts
if a mirdlrv are Complained of.
The opprellive a<sts of the admiralty courts
need no longer to be complained of, mice 011
ffte claims of merchants of the United States
file Convection on the Bth November last,
paCtd a decree giving to the executive coun- I
cil the power of judging of the validity or
invalidity of prizes.
It is as follows:
Tiie National Convention after having
heard the report of the > qiiuiUil'.e .ot niAhUi
fafet-r, decrees tEat all' dilpute> arisen, or
which may afife, on the validity or in validity
6f prizes made by privateers, fhail be decid
ed, by way of administration, by the provi
fbry executive council. The decree of the
f4th, Feb. (O. S.J attributing the judgment
«f these matters to the commercial tribunals
» repealed.
Copy agreeable to the original,
Jh. Fauchet.
The 4th allegation, would require a long
SLulic'n which I lhali not undertake here.
—I lhali only indulge myfelf in this Angle
refkclion, that the horrible system of viola
ting the law of nations in order to starve a
people Who cannot be conquered by force of
arms, has not been invented lay.France, and
that it would be as unjust as barbarous to
require that (he Ihould allow provisions to
pass to tef ehemies, while thole destined for
Her are taken by them.
As to the embargo on American veflels,
imperious cii/ umiUnces, the falvatipn of the
Country, have imposed that measure; but the
interests of no one will be injured ; and to
Convince you of this, I recite an extra# of a
letter which I have just received from citi
zen Taiiien Rcprelentative of the people at
Bordeaux.
ft is pofiible.he writes me," That fomema
' levolem persons may make ufeof this pretext
(.the embargo) to lit urb the harmony exift
mg between the Americans and us, or might
represent this measure as a violation, of trea
lies between the two nations ; the interest of
individuals may for a moment cause the ge
neral interest to disappear. It is then to"you
J>rave Republican and the true triendof your
country, that we mult consign the care of de
fending it to Congress ((hould the measure
happen to be there calumniated) fay to our
brethren that it is the intention of the com
mittee of public fafety, the actual center of
the French government to indemnify all the
Owners or captains who by the operation of
the embargo have been obliged to remain a
lergth of time in France, and that the pro
pohtions which soon will be made to them in
the name of the committee will be advanta
geous to both nations. In (hort, my friend, ■
Use every means of a frank republican nego
rator to convince our brethren the Ameri- 1
tans, that when occupied concerning the se
gregate interests of the nation, we do notfor- 1
get the,rs, and they may be assured, that they
*.11 always find ,n us faithful obfervera of
treaties made with nations worthy of li
7'he fifth and last allegation is that a con .
(raft the payment of which bavin? been /V
puhfed in cqjh, has been made in nffi.rrJs ■
I am unacquainted with the fact, but I am
*fiared, that it is the intention of the N ti- f
■ onit Coaventiatl net -to any injuftic.'
and to repair fuckr as lhali have been commit
■ ted.
I conclu !e my reft"ct'6ns ; not doubting
Sit, bui that *ih<-y w ; l! be receive 1 w.th ti.i
lame in stvas would be excited in Frinc«
by the obl'ervahonS of our allies, to whoih 1
always with new pleasure renew the aifuranoi
of the mod fraternity arid eterpa
friendlhip on the part of the people of France
JH. FAUCHET.
Faithfully translated from the original,
2911 March, 1754, by
G. TAYLOR, jun.
Philadelphia, April 3d, 1744.
Sir,
YOU do me no more than justice,- in be
lieving, that I receive with pleasure the ex
planations, which your letter of the 29th
ult. contains. They inspire :ne with full con
fidence, that my representations on each com
plaint will be treated with candor ; and as
sure mi; of redress, as far as truth will sup
port my demands.
On my part, permit me here to repelt
what I have expressed in my letter 011 the
vexations of our commerce, that my inquiry
into the facts did not go beyond the allega
tions of the parties interested. My viewwas
to present a summary only of the fubjedts,
of the remonltrartces, longed in my office,
reserving the proofs for our interviews on the
aJjultmentof the claims of retribution; deli
vering no opinion, how far the charges were
supported by evidence, and "above all, not
imputing to the French Republic the unau
thorized mil'conduft of its mips of war.
I have the honor, Sir, to be with great
retpect and ejtevm,
Your most obedient servant,
EDM. RANDOLPH.
The Minister Pie-
nipotentiary of the >
French Republif. )
1 True Copy,
GEORGE TAYLOR, jun.
1 -1.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 7.
The express, dispatched by the Execu
tive of the United States, with the refolu
tioi) of Congress for laying an embargo,
arrived at Boston on Saturday evening the
• in seventy-sour hours from the
time of leaving this City.
Yeftevday afternoon a boat overlet and
immediately funk about the middle of the
river nearlyjoppoiitc the S'y-Ihl,
by wliicFi accident, seven persons were
unfortunately drowned—viz. three wa
men, two men and two children. T\Vo
woraen and one man were saved by the hn
mane exertions of some persons, whopulh
ed off in a boat from a wharf oppoiite
the diftrelTing scene.
Tliere is a report in town, that a truce
between France and Spain has taken
place.
Mr. Dayton this day gave notice, that
he (hould call up his proposition, for the
fequetration of Britiih property, to-mor
row.
Extra& of a letter from Boston, dated 11 ft
March.
" Mr. Sargent's brig is just arrived in
23 days from St. Kitts—this vessel was
some time since obliged to put into St.
Euftatia in distress, and was captured
coming from that island, and carried to
St. Kitts—where it seems (he was immedi
ately released."
" N. B. The January Packet was not
arrived at St. Kitts when this vefTel failed."
Extras of a letter frem Chefler county.
" When last in your city, I suggested to
you a probability that the contemplated
courfeof the unfinhhed part of the Turn
pike road, which lies between the sixteenth
ar.d thirteenth mile stones, would be rejetted
tor a more southerly one,this probability ap
proaching nearer a certainty, induced me
lome time since, to examine the fouthc-rn
route, which has these advantages, in an
eminent degree ; it being almost a perfe.fl le
vel, nearly ft,-sight, and in the midst of stone,
better calculated for the purpose, than any I
have ever leen—add to which, persons thro'
whose property it will run, f'cem anxious
that it (hould pass them ; moreover read,7
and willjng to affifl In the completion of such
| parts as may come on their jand, I therefore
rel! afiured that the board taking those things
as faas, will finally adopt this ccurfe as the
molt eligible.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 5.
On Thursday the Commifliouers ap
po.uted to direct the Fortifications, pro
■ '' - *
» pofea f,i ling part, ".vent dovyii to the Nay- I
' j rw S ; and yeit-rday, tvti:t t >. (iuv-
J liVariri, io- examine find drter-siite
j « . the 11-i.ii proper pl-w.-i, t. cred iurt#
. } a.vl inh< " works foi tl« defence of chr
i J city and harbor. -
J.atejl European Intelligence.
LONDCfN, January n.
fetters from B:-ufie!s. mention, that the
different attacks lately made by the Carmag
nyis on the whole chaj) of. politions from
Nieuport to Tournav, had no other objea,
bur to maflt the of 10,000 men,
, who from the northern army have marched
again ft the royalists of la Vendee. As soon
a> this march was effeAed, the SansCulottes
retreated to tiieir former politions, after Hav
ing destroyed all the causeways which led ia
to .he French territory.
A Spahifti man of war, of 74 guns, il ar
rived in Falmouth roads, having on board, as
is raid, half a niilion of dollars, for the pay
ment >oi : the Nooika 3ound claimants. Wp.o
---• gons are detained there, and the conveyance
to Londoll will commence as soon as a guard
arrives.
Extra# of a letter from Portfmoufh, Jan. 9.
" This morning Earl Moira arrived from
London, and joihed the army at Cowes."
January 9.
The Ottoman Porte, we learn, has de
termined to fend an AinbalfaJor to every
Court irv Europe.
The Treasury letters to the members o{
the House of Commons, are already ifTued,
and, from the terms in which they are eX
pressed, Miniitcrs seem more than usually
anxious to procure a full and early attend
ance bf their friends.—The letters state
tnnta proposition of the " utmojl 'import
ance," is to be submitted to the deliberati
on of the House, and most earnjily re
quests the attendance of the members on
Ihe firjl day of the session. This, it is
supposed, alludes to a measure, which,
we underltand from very resectable autho
rity, has been determined in the cabinet,
of totally withdrawing the Bjritifh troops
from the continent,experience having prov- '
ed that trance cannot be conquered in
Flanders.
Yesterday the Hero, Captain Howatd,
fell down the river, with upwards of 300
pafTeugers for New-York.
Extra fl of a private letter,
The Imperial army, which on the 29th
of December, crofted the Rhine near Phi
liplbonrg, is taking post on the right
batik of the river, in order to protect Ftfrt
Louis, the possession of which is of the
greatest importance to the allies, as it
takes the lines of Weiffembourg in the
rear, and of course makes their pofTeffion
useless to the enemy.
January 13. "
The arrest of Thomas Paine has made
his proselytes in this country rather unfriend
ly to the present Convention of France. What
has happened to this man, setting aside the
enormities, of which the Convention is daily
guilty, ought to serve as a warning to every
one how they permit popuias locieties to in
frfftge on the privileges of government, and
take the law into their own hands.
The Emperor and the States of Brabant
are still at variance resetting the appoint
ment of the superior officers of the state. His
Majesty had appointed M. Van de Velde,
Chancellor of Brabant; but the Hates have
refufed to' accept him, a, being unworthy of
their cpnfidence.
We have received an official account of
the late battle between the Portuguese
and Spani/h troops, and the French, in the
Province of Rouffillon, which there was
no time yesterday to tranllate; but it lhall
appear to-morrow or next day.
Circuluj letters have been ifTued from
the Adjutant-General's office to all offi
cers engaged in the recruiting service, de
liring them to life the utmost activity in
completing their levies.
■THEATRE.
OBSERVER No. XIII.
Mr. Fenno,
THE Oiiferver presents hiseompliments in
this hint to the ladies of his acquaintance.
Is your hulband poor, yet honcft ? Attend ,
to •" .'v. ipbtr.ee in the character of Ladv !
Eleanor Irwin.
Is he led ash ay by accident and inexperi- ,
ence, rather tl an by habits of depravity ? 1
With her in Mrs. Belville smile him into 1
good humor, and lure him back to virtue &
conftar.
Is he, (lung by misfortunes and wrongs
led to ra&nelr, and plots of daring ? Lixe
her in Belvidera, call up the latent Iparks of
honor, and guard him from the precipice.
Have disappointments or calls'of duty,
banilhed him Trom your arms, and ih addi
tion, left an infant offspring/on your hands
*- */
•
''
ft ''-
1(
The following Certifi
cate of the funded three per Cent Stock of the
Horn ft c Debt.pt the United States lUnding on
ifi bo . :>of the Tieafuiy of the said United
Si at: .1, in the names of Donnald and Buiton of
l.nndor, menrhSfiti, and figncd by Joseph
\*oui fe, Rfgifter of said Trcafuty, to wit :—
N". S47S, <,at " d ®4' h August 1792 tor 29,59
(Miliars and S$ cents was transmitted from Lon
don in the "(hip Peter, Paul HulTey, matter,
hoond for New York, Mid has been loft.—
The Subscriber intending to apply 10 *' re Trca
ftrry of (he United States to have the fame re
newed, defvres all persons who are interested in
the said certificate, to make their objections
thereto, if any they have.
Francis Macy.
Phikd. March 37. d6w
PROPOSALS
For Printing by Subscription,
An Original Novel,
In Four Volumes, duodecimo,
Dedicated, by Permission, t<J Mrs. Bingham,
ENTIT L E »,
T'riqjs as the Human Heart.
By Mrs. ROWSON,
C;i' tl'C Now Theatre, fhil.idctp'ua, Author
of V'ftoria, inqtrlitor, Charlotte, Fille
cU Chimbre, $rc. &c.
« ——a»lf there's a pow'r above UJ,
" V •<! that therein, all Nature cries aioud
h xhfo* al! her works) he must delight irt
" virtue,
" A'i ithat w.iich he d.'light". in, must be
" happv."
**»»»«**•*
" Tiw foul, fecur'd in her exiflence,rmile':
a /Vt the drawn dv:£et'; &d6fies its point"
CONDITIONS.
I. T'ne work to be printed with a neat type
on go-iri piper.
11. Poce to four dollars bound,
Ijalf" t" be paid at the tijne of I'nbtcfibiug.
111. fhs lubfcrrber*' names will be prefixed
t as of the Undertaking^
Spb r c ipt,icns a'e received by the Au
■:'io , the corner of Seven tit and Chefnut
flrests, i\|e'fi s Carey, fl'ce, and Dobron,
Vh l^rtelp'ita.— Mr. G-een, Annapolis —IVlef-
h . All-'M, Bfry, and S. Campbell, New,
• Y.ifk —Me.l' s. Weft, Tiintpas and Andrew 1
fttake. aid L.irkin, BSfli'n—Mr. Hafwell,
Vjv n.< t —Me fs. R'c*, n-id Edwards, Bal
timore—Mr. W. P. Y 'ting, Charleflon.
April 2. nlw&('3w
" TO BE SOLD,
Ai den red upon the fir ft Miy,
77v noted Eflate, called
Johnson Hall:
in the gloria vwk country. fta.teof New j
, T<>ik, mrn C of Sir William John- |
ion, containing about seven hundred acres of
Taod, which is of the very beit quality ; tog;c
thrr with and fanning uteufvls. The
are large *nd convenient, and fit for
a gentleman's feat. The payments will be made
eifv, on j;ood iecunty. For fihiher fJarticulats
enquire of George Meicalf, Esq. on the premil-.
es, ot Silas Talbot, Efq, at Philadelphia, of
Samu.-I Ward and Brothers, in New Yoik, or
of the fubfciibcr in Providence.
Jabez Bowen.
Phi lad. March 2.6 mw&fim
Henry Rape _ State of lyiaryland.
: t>. J High Court of Chancery,
BenjatninGaithei V March jth. 1794.
and ■ a
, B ifil Ckither
The Complainant states
in his b 11 that the defendants Benjamin Gai
thi'r and Ba£L! Giither were seized in fee as
Tcjatif* in common of a tra£l of land in Fre
derick Con uy, called Hammond's Strife ;—
that be rig so seised, Basil executed a power
of attorney, to Bsnjtunm authorizing him to
fell his, the saW-Basil's interest in the said
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin fold
t''e 'aid lartd to a ccrtain William Gajther for
the confederation 6ffix hundred pounds which
hath been liace paid, that the said William
hath aflgnetl to t'ne Complainant Henry Rape
tite bond executed by the said Benjamin for
t?ie c«mveyance of t.ie foid land : The Com
plainant now further states (ard so appears
Vo the Chancel Tor) that the defendants are
non-rcfulents of the it ate of Maryland, and
herefore oat of the reach of the process of
this com t.
It is therefore adjudged and ordered, that
the Complainant procure a copy of this or
der to be inferred in the newspaper of Angell
and SuVivan, and in the United States Gazette
at W >ft three weeks fucceflively, before the
twenti' th day of May next ; to the intent
that the Defendants and all others, \yho may
conceive themselves interested in the premis
es, may have notice to appear in this court,
on or before the third Tucfday in September
next, to shew mule wherefore a decree Ihould
not pass for vejiuig in the Complainanl- 4com
plete legal title to the land aforefaid.
Test,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Reg. Cur. Con.
March 18 tuth&sgw
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant Hou,fe,
and Lot of Ground,
an eiigi »le situation,—also a Country Seat
wvhin 6 miles of the C;ty, with 9 acres of
land* or 42 acres of land and meadowy the
Ho'lfc is not exceeded bymmy in the vicinity
of -'ne city, in lize or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23- m&th—tf
tuft Imported,
In the Ship ESrsarA, C?pt. Qroaidou, from-
St. Peterftiutg ia Ruttia,
And nowland-rii* at South-ilreet Wharf, viz.
HfeiMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA PHj'.ETING,
RAVEN'S DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Dovnaldfon,
No. 12, Walnut-street.
March 4,1794- diwjtawtf
j'j} bxpcrted,
From London, Dublin, and Glafgoiv,
And now opening far sale.
By MAT HEW CAREY,
No. 11H, Mariit-Jr&t,
A Lr.i'se a ul Valuable
COLLECTION ®f BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Regiiter for I 79 2
European Magazine for the fir ft fix
months of* 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manthefter society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on chriftu.nity
D'fney's lite of Dr. Jortin
D'Anville's ancient geography
Memoirs of Guy Joli
Variety,a collation of elTays
King of Prulfia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
RufleU's ancient and modern Europe
Larighorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
S.iugnier and Briifon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
TajlVs Jerusalem delivered
Sinellie's translation ofßuffon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiwfities of literature, 3 "vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's di(stionary, 2 vols.
D )w's history of Piindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Im lay's dtfcrlption of Kentucky
Present state of "Nova-Scotia
Present ft ate of Vudfon's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavafer on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
J Murphy's life of Dr. Jqhnfon
j Necker on executive power
Kiifes of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
) Volney's ruins ofempires
Travels
s Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
f Adair's history of American Indians
, B ninqton on materialifin and immatenalilni
B-rchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
J>e Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Gi ozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's fketcfoes of the history of man
Liberal dpinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
PlAyhouse dictionary
Reveries of folitijde
Smith's theory of moral sentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. &: itld.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
mnn
Walli3 on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal ii) France
Cox's travelsintoDenmarkißuffia,Poland,See.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
I Rabant's history of the French revolution
! Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong 011 diseases of children
Quincy's d.fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the althma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseaseS of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monvo on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's dissertations
London practice of physic
Bell's forgery
Chaptal's chejniftry. d
Just Publifted,
In one handsome volume, nmo. Price 5s
and FOR sale by
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Second
Streit,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
CorrcSed and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROW N,
D. D.
Profefior of Moral Philosophy, and the I-aw
of Nature, and of Ecclesiastical Hiftor.v;
and Minister of the Englilh Church at U
treclit. 1 f
Aliquid Temper ad communsm utilitatem at- ,
ferendum. Cicero.
The Firjl American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality, if right
ly understood, is the only basis on which
universal justice, sacred order, and perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly lecured. The v.ew of it exhibited in this
eflay, at the fame time that it reprtffcs the
insolence of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages of oppression } co»firm«, 111 the
nioft forcible manner, the necessity oi fubor
diriation, and the just demands ot lawful au
thority. So far iodeed, from loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil dilbnflion,
draws more clofeJy every focii»l tie, unites in
one harmonipus and juflly proportioned fyi
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground Of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
inon relation to the community.
March 18. eodl wtufeftf
Stock Brokers Office,
Nou 16, WaJl-ftrfltt, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, begs leave to of
fc r his Cervices to his friends and others, in the
line o{ a.Stock Broker. Thofc who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
upon having it traufa£led with the utmost fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will be ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&thtf
•70 be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nthday of April next,
at the house of Johti Thomson, in Perth-
Amb oy,
The Proprietary House
awenoT or lanp,
IN AT CITY.
Lot contains eleven acres, on which is
Ji an orchard of grafted apple trees, a wfell of
excellent water, a large ft one cistern, and a vc*j
commodious stable and coach-house, and a great
i quantity of the best building stones in the walls
of the house, which was formerly built for the
residence of the Governors of New-Jersey. The
situation of this Lot is so well known for its
healthiness and beautiful profpe£t of the Rariton
river to the weft of the bay, and Sandy-Hook to
the east, that a further description is unneeeflfary.
The conditions of sale will be, one third of the
purchase money to be paid on the firft day of
May next, when a good and fufficient Deed will
be given to the putchafer, by Waltir Ru
therfurd, Esq. President of the Board of
Proprietors ot the Eastern Division of New-
Jersey, and the remaining two thirds fatisfa&o
rily secured in equal annual payments.
By order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Rcgifter*
Perth* Ambov, February 5 r 1794. 23worn
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public, That from the encouragement
he has received, from Ceveral refpettable Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LINE —and would offer his fervi es to
all those Gentlemen, who can confidenc
in him ; and he allures thofc who employ him,
that their confidence (hall not be misplaced
but it (hall be his constant endeavor, to pay the
ftri&eft attention to their best interest, in all ne
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber
in State-Street, over .Mr. David Town/end, Watch
Makei's Shop. -Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of al) kinds, are bought and iold ; and
where Coqimiflion Business of all kinds, will be
tranfatted on reasonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be constantly exposed for faie, on
commiflion.
%* Calh paid for Salem, Providence, and
Portsmouth BILLS
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York, has any Business to trarifatt at Bojien,
in Paper Negociations, he will be happy to be em
ployed on commijjion.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794. mw&ftf
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock,
Street:—
A few Bales of Ruflu Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Poxes,
A bale of Waw-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity ot Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of X irpftone,
With a Variety, of other Goods.
Feb. 20. 3 aw6w
WANTED
AN APPRENTICE
To the Printing IJufinef6, Enquire at this
Offing *
- *>
The Prafts -an/uigfrom the following publi
cation are for thebeneft of the Poor.
Just publiftcd, printed by R. Aitken and
Son, and fold by J. Crukfhank, \V. Young
T. Dobfon, and the other Booksellers,
MINUTES
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed on the 14th September 1793. b y
the Citizens of Philadelphia, the Northern
Libertws, andthe Diftrift of Southwark,
to attend to and alleviate the fgfferihgs of
the afflicted with the Malignant Fever,pre
valent, in the City and its vicinity.
IVITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING ..
A lift of persons admitted into the Hospi
tal at BuQi-hill, (hewing the times of their
admission, (jeath and discharge.
Number of Houses, Deaths, &c. in the
refpeilive streets, alleys, and courts in the
city of Philadelphia, Northern Liberties, and
Diftrift of Southwark.
A lift of the Intements in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia, Northern
Liberties, and Diftrift of Southwark, with a
meteorological account of the weather.
A summary of donations in cash andprovi
fions, received from funry persons and pla
ces, for the us; of the poor and affli&ed.
April 2. d3'.v
"Proposals
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF the
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from adlual survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS Pian will be engraved on a plate 26
inches square ; and it will contain an ex
att defGription of all the, squares, streets an<\
alleys in the City and Liberties. The fituaiion
of the several public buildings, such 2s the State-
House, City-Hall, Seat of Congress, Churches,
Meeting-Houses, Hospital, Library and Semina
ries of Learaing—of the several Banks, and of
the Federal and State Offices, will be ascertained.
The parts which arc built on willbe diftingu (h
---ed frQm those that are not. The courses qJ the
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended to conne& the
navigation of these two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineared. It will also be ornamented by a
view of th'e (hipping in the harbor, and an vie
vation of Congress-Hall, and of the oiher public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In short, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and desirable work acceptable 10 an en
lightened public, that is ir) the authorVpowcr :
and it (ha)J be coropleated with (he greatelfr
pomole diipatch, as lopu as iTve gcneioiTs cikoh- &
ragement of fublcnbeis (hall insure to the author
such a fym as will be fufficicnt to defray ey
pences.
A P/mphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical 1i 11 of
the Subscribers names, and information con
cerning the police, population and prcfent ftar<y
of the city.
The pri«c to fubferibevg will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at the time ol deliver
ing the Plans.
Subscriptions will be gratefully received aj
the principal Booksellers iu this city—and the
original Draft may be seen at B. Davibs',
No. 68, Mark< t-ftreet, at any time uotil u lhall
be put into the hands of the Engraver.
Feb. 28. m&th'f
STATE or SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In tj/e House of Reprefentativcs,
December 2111,1793-
WHEREAS tfie Commiflioners of public
Accounts, have reported, that they can- ,
not proceed to the investigation of the Treafui y
Accounts, refpe&ing special Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation Therefore, f
Resolved* That all holders of special Indents
be dirc&ed, and required, on or baiwc the firft
day of November next, to deliver tl\e fp.ecial In
dents in their pofleflion to one or other of tbe
Commifiiopers of tbe Trea/qry* who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to report to the Com
miflioners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
them refpe&ively received, and also to the Le
giflaiUM, at their meeting in November next,
and that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, oa or before the firft day
of November next, ihalj be, and the fame are
heieby barred.
Rfjolved, That public notice 0/ this refolutiqo
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the fir ft day 0/
November next. And that the Delegates ofthif
State in the Congress of the United States, be re
queued to cause this resolution to be publifhcd
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made fdr the expences attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be lent to tltt
Seuate for their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JQHN SANFORD DART, C. H. R*
In the SENATE,
December 21 ft, *793-
Rcfolvtd, That this Houfc do foncui with the
Houle of Representatives in the foregoing reso
lutions.
Ordered, That tbe resolutions be lent to the
House of -Reprefentativcs.
by order of the Senate,
FfcLIX WARLEY, GWk.
ewtNov.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNQ, No a.
South Fourth-Street.