EVENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 80 of Vol. V.]
PRICE CURRENT. . »">■ cu. DUs. cts.
«* auAnriTil.— k<*>CcnU e*th. "*'■ P""> PJ c . as ' , 5°
" a . ——!>wect, best, in fla(X.s,pr.bo* 10 5
v . • —•"'Ditto ba(ket6, 11 bottles 13
PHILADELPHIA, March i 5» Spermaccti pr. gall. 48
_ x » -Train per barrel 10 51
* Dtfi.Cti. Dtli.Cti. Whaie aj 33
' /xVCHORS J>f.rb. 7 *® Ported pr. cask, 4 33
Allum, En»li(H, pr.cwt. 4-—"-London, pr.doe. 1 60 .
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 11 American ditto bot.ittttl; 1 81
Afhea, pot, per<fcon» ll ® Pitch, pr.bbl. 173 2 1
Pearl, '34 *4 ? Pork, Burlington, per 1$ 1
Arrtck pr. gail. 133 11 Lower county 12 I *
Brandy, common, 100 120 Carolina to
Coriiac *45 ! 4° Peas, Albany pr. bufhal I
Brazilctto,pr. ton. 5° Pepper, pr.lb. 4c
Bricks, pr. M. -4 7 Pimento »8
Bread, (hip, pr.cwt. ? Raisins, best, pr. ktr «
Ditto, pilot 33 jji tlo J »
Ditto, final 1 water, P« g Ditto pr. box 333
B«r, Amrr.can, in bnttlM, , r . Rice pr.cwt.
pr.doz. bottles included, 74 Rosin , , 8
Ditto pr. barrel, Rura, Jamaica,pr. gallan im ,
Boards Cedar pr M feet, « ° ™
Jfcw E-ngland «® J4 Windward 86
, L. ma aj. -Barbadocs 87 j
Merchantablet.me " *4 Country, N. I. 80 1
"S3 p, ci
Maho S .f.y, to Saltpetre,pr.cwt. .433.
The abo.eare the (h.llop price., SalTafra. pr. ton 6 8
lor the yard price, add 1 dol- Shot ditto ,40 14.
lar 33 «nts per xooo. s trel, Cim,, l p r . .IK 9 .
w 10
Btimttone in rolls, pT.cwt. 3 America* pf. loft ;13 33 '
Jieel, Bwfton, pei barrel Crowley's pr. faggot 1067
Country ditto » g Snake root pr. ib. ate 42 ■
Frelh, per cwt. 33J 4 So.p, Brown per lb. 9
Butter pr.lb. *+ -J- Wilt*
"> *-egs 'S g __Caft,lc 18
C»ndles, Sperm, pr.lb. ♦ Starch 7 .
Wax 53 Snuff pr. dor. bot. 4 560
-—Myrtle Wax Spermaceti, refined, pr.lb. 48
~D°p U pcd tal ° W »5 Sailcloth,Efiglifh,so.l,J>r. yard, 40
Cheese, Englilh, pr. IV. "5 —— »*«n, No. I. ditto 36
Country , " ■ 3S
Chocolate '* »8 Sugar Lump pr.lb „
Cinnamon 4° (ingle refined
p., Y«7 -—-Ditto, double do. 33
Cocoa pr.cwt. «♦ £ *' — whitt «
Coffee pr.lt>. '« ,8
coal pr. bu<hel H —Muscovado, or. wt , , a
r. , ,-wf > SpmtsTurpentme pr.gallon x 27
opper p . • L 1Q Salt, Alluiti pr. buthel 80 1
Cordage Amenc.n, per ewt. 9 37 _J; P
%> n °" P r - lb " 7 — C*K« 80.
Cuir-ants ,• n _
Duck.Rufla, pr.p«« »* " L . ,<bon
-Ravens 11 Shipbuild. W. O. «®
Dutcti fail duck, id Ditto Live Oak, «*
F c 0 Ditto red cedar, per foot 3? 4c
£iZ z ii^v£r l p " u - $$ 1 67
Flo X u;,Su P e P rfi„e P r. barrel | 6? £
Common, White Oak hogthtad, 20 3 q
• r — L Red °- k -9 So
v t , n Rv . 267 Leogan 21 33
-■ --ditto KVe, D,rr#l ,C
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. t4O 2 Barrel 16
—-ont p 11 u " r Heading afi ??
Fuftix pr. ton, Skins, Otter, best pr. piece 467
Gin, Holland, pr.cafe, 4 33 —--Minks 20 40
Dm. pr. gaU. 9° Fox, grey 40 80
k Glu®, pr. cwt. 90 33 Ditto red 1 20
Ginger, white race* per lb* 12 Martins 24 l
Ditto, common Fiflict? 33 67
Ditto, ground pr.lb. ,c Bears 3
Ginfettg, 2 24 Racoons »7 60
Gunpowder, cannon,pr. q.caik, 5 11 20
Ditto, fine glared 4 Beaver, pr. lb. 67 1 33
Grain, Wheat pr. bum io* liq Deei.inhiir 20 30
"oil's 35 Tar.N.Jersey, 2 4 gal.p.bbl.
_ corn B fl —Carolina, 3 * gall. 2
, , , ,o Turpentine pr.bbl. *
Best Ihelled pr. lb. I Tobacco, J. River, best toolfe. 433
Buckwheat, perbulh. 40 3 3?
old 4
"emp, imported, pr. ton, 10 150 Rappahannock 333
A'mrfrtcirh, pr. lb. J 7 — Maryland, 8
Herrirtgs, pr.bbl. 3 * —Dark, a 40
r*w pr.lb. 9 Long-leaf a 40
stops 13 Eaftern-fh'ort • a 23
Itogftioadhoops, p'r. Mi 15 , u i Carolioa,new ft 7 3
rndigo, French per lb. 1 67 " ■ old, 3 33
Carolina * 1 80 Tea, Hyson pr.lb. 1 1 28
IVOrta, fad pr. ton, r SB 33 Hyson fk.n, 9* 60
Iron, Calling* *» r - t 4 Souchotrg, 90 93
—r-Bar pr. ton, 8266 CongO, 50 50
pig 2 5 Bohea, 40 36
Sheit 1 '73 33 Tallow, refined, per lb. 9
Nail rod's 100 33 Tin pr. box, >3 33 *3
Junk, pp. cwt. 4 4 Verdigreafe pr. lb. 60
Lard, hogs pr. lb. 12 Vermillion, do. 133 *67
Lead, in pigs pr. cWt. S 33 5 67 Varnish, pergallow 33 37
—«_in- bara 7 Wax, Bees pr.lb. 25 27
xZ . r h»»» 10 I*o 67 Whale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 3d
red 640 66, \\rine, Madeira,pr. pipe, 176 ftt6
Leather,foal» pT.lb. *0 Lilbon l'so 126
Lignum vitac pr.tOn, 7 Tenerif?e,pr. gallcta €7
Log-wood 3° ■ Fayal 5»
Mace pr.lb. — Port pr. pipe *>3 33
* Mackerel, best p*. bbl. 9 Dittoinbottles,pr.doz. 4
second quality 4 Claret 4 6
Madder, best pr.lb. ti ao Sherry pr.gaM. QO MO
Marble, wrought,pr. foot, 133 2bj Malaga 80 .80
Mast spars ditto 33 COURSE 0F EXCHANGE.
Molafiet 6® On London, at 30 days,per 466 f
Mustard per.lb. 07 —at 60 days 463 t
wflom, in bottles, pr.doz. 1 20 , —at g 0 aays 461 ]
Wails, SJ. lod.ittd. and tod. pr.lb. . 10 Amsterdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, 4a
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 8 90 days, 4©
Oilt Linfec£# pr. fill. 55 Government bills, drawn at so day*
.Qliv« *7 fight, at 4** per guilder.
of At ®tuto>
AND
Saturday, March 15, 1794.
For Sale or Charter,
The Ship
ANDROMACHE,
imtol (an American bottom)
t John Moore j Mafter }
Is a (tout good veflel, about two vears old,
burthen 233 totis, has only made three voy
ages, and may be sent to sea at a small ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-street whar£,'
and the terms made known by application to
Wharton £st Lewis.
Feb. 21, 1794<
The yimerican Brig
BURTHEN 700 barrels, with her tack^ e
and apparel as Ihe came from sea, She is a
staunch veflel, not two years old, and
put to sea immediately. For terms apply
to
GARDINER Iff OLDEN,
Arch Street wh*rf>
Who have for fale t
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
a quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and a few
caik6 Timothy Seed—also
Pig and Bar Iron, and Iron cast
ings, in any form executed on the
ihortell notice.
March 14
For Bojion,
DOI.PHIN,
William Nichols, Master:
WILL Sail in about eight days; for freight
jor pafTsge apply to the Captain on board at
1 Hodge's Wharf, betweo Arch aod Rave
-Brreet«, or
RUM FORD W ABIJAH DAWES.
3d Man. 14, 1794. dow.
For Charlejlon,
( 3<>uth Carolina.)
Anmew Gwin, Mtijler.
TO fail oh Tuefdaythe iSth inft. has good
accommodations for paflongers. For freight
or parage, apply to the Matter on board at
Walnut ftrcet wharf, or to
GEORGE MEADE.
March 14.
For Amsterdam,
The new fact-failing, copper*
bottomed SHIP
fill ADRIAN A,
K. Fitzpatrick, Mnfter.
BUILT of Hve oak and cedar and wsat in
tended for a Liverpool Trader* will fail with
all convenient ipeed. For freight or pailage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street whaxf, or to
THOS. tf JOWM KETLAND.
N. B. Puftngert will be landed in Eng
land if r-»(purcd.
March 6, dtf
Loft at the Theatre,
Lalft Wednesday evening,
A Miniature Picture
Of a Gentleman, set in gold. Whoever
wtll dfcHver the fame at No. in. Spruce street
shall receive a gmfrwu-tewwi.
March 14. 4t
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All comrnifliaits or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revokxd, and are
to be returned to the Agents at the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
(March 6th, 1794, 0.5.)
The Minister Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. EAUCHET.
The Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are requested to republish the
2 oregoing notice* <4
[Whole No. 538.J
PotL nu Oacetti or Tfti iimv9» 9ritm
Mr. Fsmnd,
- I am one of thole peaceable characters that
seldom attend pnblic me< tings, but as one at*
njy Neighbours told me that the Meeting of
't'uefday evening I all at Mr, M'Shane's wa»
of the utmost importance to every cJafsof ci
tizens, I contented to go with hiin.
The business of the meeting was opened by
a little gentleman who after a torrent of de
clamation, brought forward a firing of reso
lutions which he had previoiifly preparej for
the purpose.
In the course of his arguments he justly re
probated the condu& of the Britiih Govern
ment for Aipporting it* cmifers iu il)e»ml de
predations upon th#ci>mmerce of all Neutral
Nation!?, but more pat ticulai ly upon that of
Amerita—he then ffcated with a great flow of
language, tht propriety and the absolute n»-
ceifity for this country meeting Britain with
some kind of Retaliation and that in a way
which he considered to be the lead hoftiic.
This Was fir,to recdmitiend to Congress ei
ther by way of Resolution or memorial, tb
make discriminating dut-es upon the manufac
tures of such countries as have no commer
cial Treaties with the United States, aud the
duties arising therefiom to be appropriated as
a Fund for repaying such Merchants as may
have fuffered filiation from the detention or
feizwres of British cruisers. This he supposed
no mati could object to, and 1 coufefs I thought
it very comforting doctrine, but I was not al
together fatisfied of the Fadt, having experien
ced in the couHe of my bufmefs, that additio
nal duties upon ftich goods a 6 we could neither
mauufa&iire or do without, must, in all such
cases be paid by the consumer or perfou who
w nfts them.
*diot
I keep a Store of what \i called Ironmon
gery, two thirds of which is of Brftifb manu
facture, consisting of locks, hinges, laws,
pl»ne% gimblets, hammers and a great vaiiety
of othej articles, few of which can be made
here, and none suitable for this market can be
made in any part of Europe but England} if
so, we must import them from that toontry,
and if we must have them the whole duties
fall on the purchafeis In this Country.
If thd duties amount toa prohibition, I must
(hut up shop and pursue some other bultntfs—
w jllinghowever to examine this question a
little farther, I callfed upon rfiy neighbour
who fells Broad Cloths, Velvets, Velverets
Corduroys, Jeans, Fuftians&c. &rc. aud on en!
quiry found his prices were considerably ad
vanced, viz. Broadcloth from 35 to46f. p r . yd.
which he afTured me was partly owing to ex!
ifttng duties, and equally so to the expertatiou
that Congress would adopt Mr. Madison's re
solutions. He told mo he occasionally had
French clotlis, but the British were generally
preferred by his enftomers; and witb regard to
Velvets, &c. no part of the world could supply
them oh such-good terms both as to price and"
credit as Manchester in England; but fays he
Congress may add to their Duties, I (hall add
ihin to the price, and the people of America,
must pay the whoie.
If theft are fa&s, and they really ftrilce my
mind as such, whence are the duties to arise,
from which a fund is to be appropriated to
compensate the losses of our Merchants ? is
every man thaTt>uiMsahoufe to pay the additi
onal duties on locks, hwiges, &c &t. and every
man that wants a coat, and every Farmer or
Mechanick that requires implements or tools
to pay high prices to compensate the Mer
chant ? for finely the little gentleman wont
alTert that we can uiake those articles in fu£>
fictent quantities for the United States* and if
we nuftlvave them, so long must we employ 4
the British Manufacturers, pay the Tax our
selves and be laughed at into the Ba?gain.
I hope Sir, j have not traofgrefled too mucil
on tlie space allotted in yout paper to better
writers-—tf my brother shop-keepers ai d in
deed people in general, would think timre for
tfceerfiives) they never would be the thipos of
BUSY POLITICIANS.
Foreign Intelligence.
LONDON* Dec. 20.
Copy of a lettter received yesterday morn
ing from an officer in JLord Howe's
fleet, dated Torbay, Deo. 14, 1793.
MWe arrived here on Wednesday last,
after an utrfeccefefol cruize, the object of
which, (as wa» reported), was to inter
cept the French Weft India convoy,.
They, howev*rhave thought propr to go
to America, and in all probability w2l
remain there, as neither life nor property
appear secure in France. On the morn
ing of 18th November, wt fell in with a
Frcngh squadron, confiding of seven fail
of thelme, two frigates, two brigs and »
schooner. They were within two leagues
of us before they discovered their mittake.Lor 1 . Ho-rtmad.- a fig;al for fevcral ships
to give ctiuee ; whicL they did, and camc
up io fact, that before i o'clock, two of
our sup» began to fire : but whether from
their fnp rior judgment, or our wilful tku
pi 'ity, I know not, but on the rooming
of the 19th no: a Frencjl (hip wis to be
ft"i. It wis th;general opinion that we
could capture ever/ one of them. So fan
gnine were We in our expc&ationt, and at
the lam? time so confident of fucceCs, that
calculations \v. re made of the prize money
which fhotild fall to each m n, but thele
hopes entirely vaniflird with, the return of
light. Ne'er was such apparent oifcon
tc.it seen, as in the morning when the
French fleet had to clear off."
The troops left at Guernsey with the
Earl of Moi'.a, are mostly sick, The ex
pedition is certainly fruftrated for the
p, ;fent. Whether or not it will ever be
reluiried, is another que!t ion.
THE DUKE OF YORK's ARMY.
Geneial orders of his royal highness
the commander in Chief.
Head quarters, Tournay, Dec. 13, 1793
His royal highness the commander in
chief cannot fuffer the troops to go into
v. inter quarters without expressing to them,
pv. vious to toeir separation, the sense he
entertains of the intrepidity, patience, and
perfcverance they have difplaved, so much
to their own honor and his fatisfaftion, in
the course of the campaign.
His royal highness detires the officers
and men will accept his warmed acknow
ledgements, and be allured their meritori
ous exertions have made an iiripreffion on
his mind that never will be effaced He
is persuaded that the good conduct of the
troops in quarters will equal their gallan
try i.i the field.—His royal highness de-
Ares the officers will explain to their mtfti
the good consequences which mull natur
ally ensue from their conciliating, by their
gocd behaviour, the affection of our Allies,
the fubjeft* of his Imperial Majesty; and
bis royal highness is perfectly allured, that
every officer, feeling the importance of this
obi eft, will take every opportunity of giv
ing it the weight it so iuftly deserves, both
by precept and example.
His royal highness crders, that all the
troops under his command pay proper re
peft to the Hv/i, and all other religious
processions. He directs that all sentinels
carry their arms when any religious pro
cession is puffing; and demands the atten
tion of all officers, but particularly thole on
dutv, to prevent impropriety being com
mitted on these occasions.
His royal highuefs is confident,that the
troops under his command will ever bear
in mind, that, though we differ iu some of
the ceremonies of religion, we unite with
our gallant Allies, and it is our gldty to
do fo,iu everyfentirnentof devotion to our
Creator, and attachment and loyaltv to
sovereigns.
Every regiment of the line on the Iri(h
Eftablilhment Is toconfiltof 1,200 men,
two Lieutenant Colonels, two Majors, and
two additional Captains.
For lie GjiztTTS of the Usited States-
Mr. Fbnno,
As a friend to the Old Soldiers, you
are requested to give our thoughts and
complaints to our Fellow-citizens especial
ly to members of Congress.
Learning by your Gazette, that ano
ther petition is now before Congress for
the payment of the New Emi/Jion Bills,
our hope of speedily receiving our due, is
revived. We took these bills in payment
for part of the time we served in the ar
my, and were told they would be as good
as Gold and Silv :r, as the individual States
solemnly promised to pay them, and also
to make it certain, the United States in
Congress insured the payment of them,
and pledged their sacred faith and honor
to pay the interest annually until the bills
were paid. But as the war was so expen
tive, Congress could not raise money to
pay every demand as it became due, we
patiently waited until the war ended, but
ft ill we were told, there was not money
to pay us. When the new government
began to talk about paying the public
debts, we expelled these t>ills which were
secured by a double promise, would be the
fiilt paid.—lt is painful to fay, what has
been our difpapointmerrt—Our bills are
not paid—N'cw-York, with true faith and
honor, paid her bills in silver, years ago,
Knd we suppose other States may have
dohe as well; but we never depended on
uny State for payment, bat on Congress
under jvbofe authority we ferved—wliofe
sacred promite we lelied on—and to Coh
grrjs, we now now look up for speedy jus
tice. If the faith of Congrefe is not as
good as that of New-York, the world is
turned upside down, and Hands on the lit-
end ! —But, will iyuii.faU !.
We have Teen, with iorrow, great debts
paid—millions funded, and the interest
paid—and State debts afiumed—and onr
bills, the price of pOr sweat and blood,
remain, to this day, unpaid—not even the
interest !—Altho' our demands are small,
they are more neecflary for u>, than thou
sands to rich men- One hundred dol
lars, to an Old Soldier, is a great thin j,
and would sweeten the life of his whole
family for a long time. Certainly, every
good ma* in Congress will be our friend,
and we hope they are now all good.
OLD SOLDIERS,
For the Gazette of ths Unit&j States.
Mr. Fenno,
A number of Citizens, wish to be in
formed, why the Mayor or Recorder of
this city, has not agreeably to the provi
sions of the Ast of A (Terribly, parted the
Bth of March, 1792, been required by a
vote of the Mayor, Aldermen, and Com
mon-Councilmen; to iflue a writ, direct
ing a new election, to be held to supply
the vacancies occasioned by the death of
MetTrs. Jacob R. Howel, Jacob Schriner,
and John Wood, and the resignation of
Mr. James Abercrombie, of the Common-
Council.
It may be remarked, that conformably
to the Ast of incorporation ; a general
election for Council men, will not take
place before the second Tuesday in April,
'795, till wh ch time, a period of 1301-
14 months ; (if the vacancies are not pre
viously supplied,) our representation will
be incomplete.
It is well known, that those members
of the Common-Council, who have died
or resigned, wereufeful active members of
that body : —And it is certainly proper
that an opportunity (hould be given to
the citizens, of supplying their places by
men, equally refpeftable, and equally
worthy of their confidence.
If it be said, that is scarcely worth
while to call the citizens together, for the
purpose of electing ortly four Cciuncil
men ; —I reply that four is not an incohfi-.
derable number, particularly where the
loss of four such men as have died or resign
ed, ii to be supplied ; and that btfides,
as it is not probable that more than four
vacancies in 3 years time, will ever hap
pen, and as the Legislature has thought
proper to make special provision, for sup
plying vacancies, they mult have had
it in contemplation, that a new elec
tion Ihould be had whenever such a num
ber of vacancies Ihould take place. The,
Legislature has expressly said, that the
Common-Council Ihould cotifift of 30
members, and have enacted that when the
number (hall fall (hort of that, there
may be an election—and has the corpora
tion a right to fay otherwise ? such a doc
trine would indeed be a dangerous one.
I have been informed, that a difficulty
has often arisen in collecting a quorum
for the purpose of proceeding to business,
to conllitute which fixteenCommon-Coun
cilmen are neceflary, with the Mayor
or recorder, and 8 Aldermen :—This dif
ficulty will not so often occur, if the re
prcfentation be complete, and regard is
had to the election of such men, as will
attend closely to the duties of their ap
pointment.
From the effe£t produced, we haverea
fon to think, that the incorporation of
the city, was a wife measure ; the prin
ciples on which it was incorporated, were
well considered, and generally approved,
and the continuance of these good effects
may be bed fccured by the preservation of
these principles—and taking care that the
number of representatives be fufficient,
and the representation complete.
I trull that these considerations will have
due weight with the members of the cor
poration ; and that they will comply with
the wilh of a large number of their fel
low citizens, in causing a n#w election to
be had.
PHILADELPHIA
PRICE of STOCKS.
6 per cent«, 16/9
3 ditto, 5/5
Deferred, 10/"
U. S. Bank, 5 per cent. adv.
CONGRESS.
House R rfircfeft t ati ites.
January 30.
In cbmmittee of the whole oh Mr. Ma/lifon'i
resolutions
etch of Mr. Madifw.
[continued.]
4. It had been an objc&ion to
folutious, that they might deprive us of
the aid of British capital and credit, which
were necessary to the prosecution of our
commerce.
Mr. M. did not admit either that the
effect would happen, or that it would be
ruinous-to our commerce.
Unless Great Britain fbould, of her
own choice, put a flop to the commercial
intercourse with us, which for reasons be
fore given would be so much more hurt
ful to herfclf than to this country, that it
never could be presumed ; the resolutions
would operate only by abridging some of
out importations, and by varying the
channels of others, Her capital, as far
as requisite here, might continue to be em
ployed here.
On the general question concerning our
dependence on British capital and credit,
he observed that it could not be denied
that more use was made of them at pre
sent, than was either necessary or benefi
cial. Credit when extended to consumers,
as was the cafe throughout the southern
states, was extremely injurious; as had
been well explained by a member of Vir
ginia (Mr. Nicholas,) and as he himfelf
h'ad equally witneffesj. When confined
to merchants, it might, within certain
limits, be an advantage ; but it was not
only his own opinion, but that of better
judges, that the credit given to our mer
chants, was at present excessive and inju-
rious.
In order to form a very precise judg
ment on this fubjeft, it would be necefTa
ry, he said, to calculate the amount of
out own capital, and its proportion to the
amount of our trade. This was a thing
he supposed, which could not well be done.
If he had concurred in the doctrine, of
which so much had been heard both with
in and without doors, that a funded debt
and banks of discount, were equivalent to
affive capital, he should have a ready an
swer to the difficulty,. The paper of the
two kinds, in the United Staffs, cannot
amount to less than onehundred millions of
dollars ; whilst the amount of our ex
ports or our imports, does not exceed one
fourth of that capital. It is true, a part
of both the public and the bank (locks, is
in foreign hands ; but, with the mod am
ple deductions on that account, the residue,
if ope:ating in any considerable degree, as
attive capital, would be a competent re
source.
As he did not however view the doc
trine in the particular light in which it
had been painted ; it would he more to
his purpose, to observe, that there was
certainly in this country a real mercantile
capital to a very refpe&able amount; —
that this was fall inereafing with our in
creasing population and wealth ; —that if
the foreign capital of one country (hould
be withdrawn, the vacancy would proba
bly by degrees be occupied by that of
other foreign nations J that if it I'honld
happen otherwise, there was reason to be
lieve. that a reftriftion of our use of fo
reign credit, would be rather salutary than
disadvantageous ; that in fine, as long as
we had twenty millions of dollars worth of
produce, wanted by other nations; and
were willing to take for it, twenty mil
lions worth 1 of what they wished to part
with, he was under no apprehension that
the means of effefhiating an exchange,
would not be found. Both merchants
and capital would qiiickly be generated by
such a state of things, if they did not pre
viously exist.
5. It had been observed by fevcral
members, in allusion to the alledged pro
portion of British manufactures consumed
by us to the entire mass of her manufac
tures, that Great Britain would never part
with her navigation ast, in order to avoid
a loss of four per cent, in the demaud for
her manufactures.
To this obje&ion he anfwercd; that
the eomparifon ought to be our consump
tion, not with the entire mass of her ma
nufactures, but with the part entering in
to her foreign trade ; and then the loss
would not be four per cent, but, at least
twenty pet cent ; that this would not be
the only loss (he would sustain, if (he
(hould be unwise enough to (lop the in
tercourse between the United States and
her dominions; that it had been ilreadf
(hewn, that, when '.he apprehended a re
ftriftive system on our part, {he was wil
ling to pievent it, by relaxing herreftric
tive system ; that in times of war, when
an adherence to that system would distress
her, {he frequently suspends her navigati
on act; that at this moment it is suspend
ed in relation to the Wsft-Indies; that
there could be little doubt, if the tempo
rary necessity, were likely to' be made
permanent by firm and judicious measure*
011 our part, chat the remedy for it would
be. made permanent alio.
6. It was objected that the present wa«
an improper time for such rcfolutions.
The principal reason given for this was,
that the negociation between the secretary
of state and the British minister here, was
ftill depending. To (hew that this reason
was unsound, Mr. M. went into an histo
rical view of what had palled in reference
to commercial arrangements. He read the
mefiage of the Prelident tp the House of.
Representatives, oh the 14th of February,
1791, acquainting them, that steps had
been taken to ascertain the difpofitionj of
the British court on the fubjeft, and that
there was no ground for favorable expec
tations. He dated, that in consequence
of this communication, a committee was
appointed, who reported that foreign vefc
fels ought not to be allowed to bring into
the United States any articles not of the
produce or manufacture of the country to
which they belong, and that an additional
duty of twelve and an half cents ought to
be laid on all diitilied spirits, the produc
tion of any country or place from which
veflels of the United States were not per
mitted to bring them ; that it being very
near the end of the session when this re
port was made, it was referred to the se
cretary of state, with an inftru&ion to re
port to the next feflion an account of the
foreign commercial regulations affecting
the United Stales, with his opinion, &o.
that at the next feiiion, a letter was re
ceived from that officer, intimating that
in the a&ual state of circumstances, the
report would not be given in, unless called
for by the House ; tuat at the present ses
sion, the report now before the commit
te.', was given in, without being called
for; and was ther fore a proof, that the
circumstances which had caused the delay
ha J van fh :d, and t'.iat at present there
was nothing in train, according to the o
pinlon of the secretary of state, which
ought to r.ftrain the Legiflaturc from
proceeding in the business.
In answer to suggestions, that the Bri
tish minister had, 11 the correspondence
with the secretary of state, lately commu
nicated by the President, manifefted a fa
vorab'e dif-ofitioi, which hid not been
improved—Mr. M. recurred to the paf
fagc which related to this point. He read
from the firft letter of Mr. Jeffcrfon to
Mr. Hammond, dated Nov. 29, 1791, a
paragraph requesting Mr. H. « to fay,
whether he was authorized to conclude,,
or to negociate arrangements with us,
which may fix the commerce between the
two countries, on principles of reciprocal
advantage ?" To this reqiieft Mr. H. on
the 30th of Nov. 1791, answered, "That
the King was sincerely disposed to promote
and facilitate the commercial intercourse
between the two countries, and that he
was authorized to communicate to this
government, his majelty's readiness to en
ter into a negociation for establishing that
intercourse upon principles of reciprocal
benefit." On Dec. 6, he wrote to Mr.
J. in order to prevent misapprehension,
that although he was not yet empowered
to conclude aiiy definitive arrangement
with refpeft to the commercial intercourse,
he still meant it to be Understood, that he
was fully authorized to enter into a ne
gociation for that puipofe, Sec. The re
ply of Mr. J. on the 13th of Dec. inform
ed Mr. H. that he had laid his letters be
for the President, and was ready to re
ceive a communication of his full powers,
for entering into the negociation, See.
This was followed next day by a letter
from Mr. H. stating, that he had no spe
cial commiflion to conclude any definitive
arrangement upon the fubjeft of commer
cial i ltercourfe—but that he conceived
himfelf fully competent to enter into a ne
gociation, and the difcuflion of principles
that might be the bafisof such definitive
arrangement—and that this opinion of hit
competency was founded on the instruc
tions which were to regulate his personal
conduct, and the general plenipotentiary
chara&er in which he had been sent, and
received.
(Speech to is continued,)UNITED STATES.
KINGSTON, (Jamaica,) January 19.
The ftroog inertfure which the British
go«rnir»?m has found necessary to inforce
agatntl America, will place her in a fitua
tioir highly inimical to the views of those
rash p-irtizan* of the French mobocracy,
whose intrigues have been so fatal to her
rial rhtereft. For America to hesitate
cue moment in offering to join the league
agaiitft the present rulers of France,would
bt a fpeeies of political insanity without
example in the history of nations.
Lmgrefs of the United States•
House of Reprefentat'ruet
Friday, March 14.
The bill from the Senate fupplemcnta
ry to the z£t providing for the punifh
fnent of certain crimes against the Uni
ted States, was twice read.
* The President has approved the bill
making appropriations for 1794.
The Senate has concurred the bill au
thorising a loan of million.
1 1 .vas moved to take up immediately
t part of the resolutions offered a few
d.'/s since, which relates to empowering
the President to lay an embargo if he
IhotiM deem such a measure necefiary.—
Tae motion was loft, owing to the wish
of a majority to pursue the fubjeft of Mr.
Mvlifon's resolutions and give them a
decision.
The house then went into committee
on those resolutions.
A long debate ensued—in which the
res ilutions were opposed as being incom
petent to the obje&s for which they were
bro't forward—the present circumllances
of the country requiring measures of a
more energetic completion. The reso
lutions were supported on the principle
of their intrinsic propriety, and as being
auxiliary to any measures of a more deci
sive nature, which it may be determined
to adopt.
No decision on the merits of the dis
criminating principle in the second refo
ltition, took place.
The dignity of the representation of a
free people was disgraced at the close of
the debate, by a Clapping of Hands in
the G illery, at an expreflion which fell
From Mr. Parker.
Upon this a debate ensued on clearing
the galleries : The motion for which, was
carried almost unanimously.
Adjourned till Monday.
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 15.
A correspondent observes that he is
happy to learn that the decisive condu&
of the Reprefentativesof the people of the
United States, in their nlmoji unanimous
vote for clearing the galleries yesterday,
receives the aprobation of every real .friend
to the Liberties, the dignity, and inde
pendence of this country, who is informed
of the circumitance.—Our correspondent
is well allured that the measure is approv
ed of, very generally, by the citizens them
selves who were in the galleries, both a
bove.and below; for adds he, the inde-,
corum is well known to have originated
in diftgn on the part of some particular
persons who had perfuadedt hemfelves to
think so contemptibly of the guardians of
our rights and privileges, as to suppose
there was a majority who would counte
nance an insult on the majesty of the peo
ple.
A correspondent asks what right Oyftermen
have to d<ftutb the citizens with the ringing
of Sells in ch- streets ; and if their thundering
vociferations are not TufTicient to rouse the in
habitant • of a square at any given distance in
the fame? Bells are neceflary and proper for
Calling the attention of the people on certain
occasion', hut if thus promifcuoully used will;
be deftrn<ft)ve of the good ends for which their
wle was intended.
By this Day's Mail.
By late arrivals from the Wejl Indies at
Baltimore, the Editor of the Daily
Advertiser printed there, received
Engli/h papers to the firjl of January,
from -which the following articles are
publijbtd by him.
VIENNA, December 11.
We have accounts from Italy, that a
fquadroix of 12 Britifli and Spanish flilps
oi war appeared before Tunis, andium
moned the Bey to fu.Tender to them the
French c»nvoy of merchantmen from the
Levant, in the name of .Louis XVII. the
lawful King of France ; but that the
Bey's answer was in the Negative.
PARIS, December 25.
The re-capture of Toulon by the troops
of the republic, on which the committee
of public welfare made a report which had
not appeared in print, when these accounts
came away, excited surprise in the breads
of the Sans Culottes, who when this in
telligence was firft announced, did not
manifelt those usual tokens of joy which
they betray on afl other occasions, when
some pretended or real success is mention
ed. It must no doubt, be a matter of re
gret to every true republican, that one of
the fined ports in France is entirely des
troyed—an arsenal, considered as one of
the fineft in Europe, consumed by fire—.
and a navy, once powerful and refpefted,
became the property of the allies, or a
prey to the flames. The aristocrats of
Toulon, who for the molt part escaped,
leave also to the vengeance of the repub
lic a very inadequate quantity of blood to
be (hed by the axe of the guillotine.
The number of 200 men said to have
been 101 l when the troops of the republic
atchieved this exploit, appears to some
very erroneous and inaccurate; the report
of the committee of public welfare will
perhaps furnilh the curious public with
better and more probable information.
LONDON, January r
Last night Mr. Sparrow the mefienger
arrived from Bruflels, with dispatches from
Lord Elgin, stating that intelligence had
been received there from Paris, of the fact
of the French having regained Toulon—
but that the retreat of the allies had been
effected without any loss, after they had
destroyed the whole of the French fleet
and the Arsenal.
IMPERIAL HEAD QUARTERS AT
HAGUENAU,December 16.
Yesterday and this day the French attack
ed the whole line of the Austrian army, un
der the command of Gen. Wurmfer, with
itndefcribable fury, from Limbach as far
the banks of the Rhine. Although the lo's
of the Auftrians was hot ipconfiderahle, yet
it is very trifling indeed, if compared with
that of the enemy, who left 200 dead on the
field at the taking of one of their redoubts,
without reckoning those who were wounded
or taken.
December 20.
The Frcnch try every day the greatest ef
forts to break through the lines of gen. Wurm
fer, which extend from Haguenau to Fort
Louis, in which there are 24 redoubts with
200 pieces of cannon. The enemy's design
is to raise the liege of Landau, which fortrefs
is of the greatest consequence both to us & to
themselves.The 18th they strained every nerve
to gain that end ;it was a most bloody and
murderous day,and the chief attack was made
at Fifchbach. The duke of Brunfwick had
before-hand reinforced gen. Wurmfer's ar
my with fix battallions of Prufiians, and as
t rwards came and engaged himfelf in the
ombat. The French were entirely defeat
ed and several thousands of them cut to pie
ces. The vigors who also fuffered conside
rable loss, took 20 pieces of cannon.
The garrison of Landau must now furren
de •in a fbort time. It made an unfuccefsful
so tie a few days ago, but it will now fee that
French Sans Culottes will never have it in
their power to relieve that fortrefs.
The affair at Toulon was no otherwise un
fortunate than from the loss of gen. O'Har a.
The objedt of the sortie, viz. the deftru&ion
of the batteryattacked, was accompliftied, and
but for the impetuosity of the troops, would
have been accomplished without loss—Yet
this affair seems still to afford food for the ma
licious misrepresentations of the Jacobins.
In the affair of the 30th. captain Hill had
not left gen. O'Hara more more than ten mi
nutes, with a dispatch to bring up the artillery
men, before he returned and found the fort
taken, and the gc neral carried off.
An order has been iiTued from the admi
ralty, for seizing all French produce in Ame
rican ftiips bound to any port in Europe; and
alfoall American produce bound from the
United States to any of the French Weft-In
dia islands.
Authentic News from Martinico.
Bridgetown, February 12.
We are Happy to inform our readers
that the fleet which failed from here on
Monday the 3d inft. under the command
of Vice-Admiral fir John Jarvis, arrived
in Bay Marin on the sth inft. and
fir Charles Grey landed with the troop
early the next morning, and there was
reason to believe Gen. D undas made good
his landing a few hours sooner.
Sir C. Grey took poll »t Li Reviere
Salic before dark, without any otlier Ids
thin a sergeant of the 9'.li rcgime.it, who
having jult recovered of a lever, iurtk
through fatigue.
Brigadier-General White, separated
from fir Charles on the march, to take
pnffeiGon of Ance d'Arl-s, the Grand
Ance, Fort Solomon and the heights
which commanded liletaux Ramiers. Soon
after the march of the army, Capt. Ro
gers having a squadron of frigates & tranl
ports with fir C. Gordon's brigade failed
for Caife Navire, with a view to operate
on, that fide, and to awe Saint Pierre.
By reports of Americans and deserters,
Rochambeau was employed, while our ar
my was in motion, in exertions toperluade
mulattoes and negroes in the quarter of
St. Anne to go into fort Bourbon. '
At 8 o'clock on the morning of the
sth, the admiral dispatched the Nautilus
(loop of war with two ordnance traufports
and two victuallers for the fnpport of the
troops under brigadier Gen. White, who
after a very severe march and some attack
of pods, &c. arrived in the rear of Cape
Solomon Battery and Cape BoHrg, where
the brigadier soon hoiited the British flag
and meant to attack the posts which in
tervened between Cape Solomon and Pid
geon' Iflauds.
On the morning of the Bth inft. Cape
Solomon Battery and Cape Bourg, were
taken without any loss whatever. Brig.
Gen. White, informs, that Sir C. Grey
has arrived at Lametin, and' the enemy
had taken port opposite the lflet des Ra
mier, which the Brigadier intended to at
tack with his artillery.
The inhabitants of the quarter in which
3ay Marin is, were coming in very fa ft:,
and reported that I,a Trinetti was in pos
session of Major-Gen. Dundas.
NEW-YORK, March 14.
Extract of a letter from Albany, dated
March 8,
" I am ferry that I can only inform
you of unwelcome news—that is, the re
jection of the bill for fortifying the port
of New-York.
" After a debate of fix hours, most
-earnestly, it was carried againlt as by a
majority of thirteen.
" Conftitutionalty was milch the fub
jeft of confederation : here we had the
better; but an idea that Gongref* ought
to attend to the bufmefs, and bear the ex
pence, I believe, turned the scale. An
infinity of verbage, however, was expend
ed on the occasion.
" Yelterday, on the bill for treating
with the Indian tribrsj we had fume very
lengthy debates on conititutional ground,
better managed than any oik- this iefiion.
It was determined against the conftituti
oiiality."
MARINE INTELLIGENCE.
Arrivals at this Port,
Ship Congress, JLoring, Charleston
Leeds Packet, Sinclair, Havannah
Hibernia, Marsh, Teneritfe
Snow Efperance,-
arig Susanna, Jenks,
Ranger, M'Cleland, Liverpool
Fanjiy,—— > .Weil-Indies
Schr.Goddefsof Liberty, Sanders Gibraltar
Capt. Sinclair, of the (hip Leeds Pack
et, arrived yesterday, in 19 days from the
Havannah, informs us, that authentic in
formation had arrived at the Ha»annah,
a few days before he failed,that the British
frigate Penelope & 9 fail of the Jamai
ca homeward bound fleet, were loft in
a hurricane. One sailor, belonging to
the Penelope, saved himfelf by i'wiming
on ftiore, and is now on board the Leeds
Packet.
The schooner President, Captain Pool,
of and from Charleston (S. C.) was cap
tured by an Englifli privateer, 13 days
after (he failed, and carried into Antigua.
Capt. Waite, who came paflerigtir in
the brig Susan, Capt. jenks, from St.
Martins, informs us, that his vefTel and
cargo was condemned altho' American
property—tbe pretext " That every kind
of traffic between a neutral natiop apd
any belligerent power, which was ript al
lowed in the time of peace, betwixt such
Itates is illicit." Durham and Davit, ap
peared in court as evidences. These men
are concerned in 3 privateers, which had
taken 15 fail of American vefleU, all in
the fame predicament.
BRIDGE-TOWN, February 8.
Yesterday arrived hi» majefty'j Packet
Sandwich, 30 days from Falmouth.
It is with infinite concern we inforrti
our re tier* of the death cf Dirid
Esq. our late Worthy Governor ; he du?d
dtiriug the lull wtek in Dtccmbcr, at
Bath.
From the New-Tor.k Daily Gtmefte.
N EVER let a fadious crew
Our dearest hopes in life pitrfue
With such a vengeful hand :
A t length our all will be dell roy'd,
Relations, friends, and all beside
Such wars, will fill our land.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED
SAp Hannibal, M' Kecvtr, St. Marks, 16 days
Brig Honlbrooky Hughes, Cadiz, 50 days.
——Ciarijfti, Pricey Bermuda, 14
Abigail, Wedman, Port au Paix,
Schooncr Lovely La/s f Cbarlejlon 18 days
Capt. Hughes came out in company with
34 fail of American mejfels —among them
the ship Indujlry, Perry of this port, all undi r
convoy of a Spanifb 74. —The brig Lady M'al
terflorf of Philadelphia, is arrived ai Cadiz..
Capt. Price left at Bermuda —The Schoo
ner Friend/hip, Patton, libelled. Sloop Sally 9
Hefs, cargo condemned. Sloop Polly, Smith, do*
ail of Philadelphia.—Capt. Patton'j trial <was
to come on the day after Capt. Price failed.
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
March 15,
Will be performed,
A Comedy, called
Every one has his Fault.
Lord Norland, Mr. Whitlock.
Sir Robett Ramble, Mr Chalmers.
Mr. Solus;
Mr. Harmony,
Capt. Irwin,
Mr. Placid,
Hammond,
Porter,
Edward,
Lady Eleanor Irwin,
Mrs. Placid,
Miffi. Spinster,
Miss. Wooburn, Tv'r*. Morris
7he EPILOGUE by Mrs. W.Mloci.
To which will be. added,
A COMIC OPERA—CaII«d
RO S I N A.
Belville,
Capt. Belville,
William,
Rullic,
ill. Irifliman,
2d. Irifliman,
Rolitia,
Mr. Marshall
Mr. Moreton
Mr. Francis
Mr. Warrell
Mr. Green
Mr. Bliffrt
Mrs. Waircl
Dorcas, Mrs. Bates
Phoebe, Miss. Broadhurft
With the Original Overture and accom
paniments, composed bv Shield.
Bocks of the Songs to be had at the
Theatre.
The Scenes designed and executed by
Mr. Milbourne.
For sale by Public Vendue,
On Tuesday Evening,
The 18th Inft. at 7 o'clock, at the
MERCHANT'S COFFEE HOUSE,
a FD r OMACHE,
AS she came from sea, now tying at Vine
llreet wharf. She is a strong weu built ref
fcl,i3a tons burthen,has madfc but three voy
ages, andnfey b£ ferit to Tea at a finall ex
pence ; inventory tobefeeiron board, and at
the place of sale.
FOOTMAN iff CO.
March 15. ■ d o t.
For Sale, or Charter,
To the Weji-Mics, Or any Port within
the United States ;
Darius Woodworth, Mailer.
V il carry about 502 ba rcls, a. d now !les
at Whafton and G"*ve«: wharf. Fof.tetms
apply to Capt*. WowfWfvfh on 1 " r *"
EMAfIUEL IVA LKE P.
if not &>ltT or Charted by ThurJ4t iu
then t.-.k Freight lor Norfolk. and
Richmond (Virgin*) ; and Sat* on tl»c Sunday
lbltw»n,i.
M^«c v 15
A Good Compositor Sc
Prrejfman nuili meet with con/}ant employ for
fix months, and one quarter ddlar per tckeu
and tkwfand.
Apply at No. 61. fouih SeccrfJ Jireet.
March iji d^t-
Mr. Morris
Mr. Bates.
Mr. Fennel
Mr. Moreton
Mr. Green
. Mr. Warrell
Mrs. Marshall
Mrs. Whitloclc
Mr 6. Rowfon
Mrs. Bates
4- r mv ,*-fFor Sale by the Subscribers,
MUSCOVADO Sugar in hhds.& bbsl.
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, in pipes
and casks.
Spaiibh Indifco.
Burton Beef, in barrels.
And a loiail invoice of Muslin*.
NALBRO* & JOHN FR/. ZIER*
No. 164, South Front-ftieet.
March 8.
Loft at the Theatre,
IN* Clntnui Street, a handfoinc Shawl, com
monly called Camels Hair ; wotked with co
louts. Whoever will »eturn it 10 the Printer,
ihail receceive a handfomc reward.
March 12, 1794. £'•
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, JAP ANN' D
PLATES, &c.
Done in the moil elegant ir.nnner, and after
the firft nlafters ; likewise,
fire Buckets
Painted and finifhed at the shortest notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth streets.
March 4.
TREASURYofP BNNS YLfANIA,
February 14, 1794*
PUBLIC Notice is heieby given to all pcrlons
taoebted to the Commonwealth, for monies
borrowed of the Truflees of the Loan Office,
eftablifhcd per ast of the 4th of April, 1785,
that the time is expired when the last payment
ihould- have been made, and every jilftifiable
indulgence having bee# granredj That unless
they come forward and pay off their refpedlive
balances on or before the fir ft day of April next,
precepts will issue against all delinquents with
out regard to persons or cifcumftancts. Ail
former and existing (beritfs, who have money
in their hands belonging to said are re
qnetted to bring it 10 me on or before the above
period, otherwise I fh 11 be under the disagree
able uecefflty of prokcuting them without cuf-
tin&ion.
CHRISTIAN FEBIGER.
P. S. The Printers throughout the State are
requcfted 10 iiiierl the above in their papers for
Iht- information of their fellow-ciri/.ens. d
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the lift Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased,
TheHoufe N°. 245,
AND
Lot of Ground
On which it stands, wherein JA m t s BiDD L E
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
ilreet, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet 10 inches in
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold fub
je<£l to 1 ground rent of twelve founds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their fuccefTors
forever, For terms apply to
Samuel Coatf.s,
Jonathan Jones,
Anthony W. Morris,
Samuel Powell Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, dec'd.
*eop 3w
March r, 1794.
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at bis Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street:—
A few Bale* of Ruflia Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bate of low-piiced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity of Souchong Te», Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Brimflone,
With a Variety of other Goods.
I]ltaw6w
Teb. to.
WHEREAS an alias subpoena has iflued
out of the Supreme Court of this Com
monwealth, at th* fun of Mar car bt Evans,
upon a petition preferred by the said Marga
k it, prayiug for a Divorce from the bonds of
Matrimony, entered into with Robert Eva us.
This is to give notice to the {aid Robert, that
be be and appear at the said Supreme Court, to
be held at the City of Philadelphia on Monday
the seventh day of April next,at the Staic-Houfe
in the said City, to answer the matters alledged
in the said petition.
Wm. chapman,
Sheriff of Bucks County.
*iaw4w
March 5, 1794.
To Robert tvans.
A Slitter of Iron
WANTED.
A MAN well (killed in rolling and
flitting Iron into Sheets, may have
good encouragement by calling on the
Printer. Feb. 27. eop4t
$3* This Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement—The Subscription
encreafes daily—Advertiftng Favors are
foficUed —These conjlitute an ejfential Item
0 diminijhing the DM Jide of the Account.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amlicrdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipe Si
A few bales Holland buck-,
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries >
Glass Ware, -vha Tumblers and Mugs, va-
finw4w
rious fixes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and flat bars,
Hair Ribband, No> 4.
Diitch Great Coats 9
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c. &c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
Ihouldapplication be made within a few days ;
otherwise Jhe will take freight for Amjler
dom.
March 1, 1794.
N O R R I S-C OUR T,
Back of the New Library, between Chefnut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the business of*
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Like wife, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
for doors or window-fhutters,dcne in the moll
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, drf
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfceads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
A 'LSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine j
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quaiter casks,
FOR SALE BY
No. in, South Front*ftreet,
Jan. 2, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE RY
M.Carey, No. 118 ,High-Jlrect,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sense, the bcjlfenfe in the world.
THIS lutfe book, is written in a llile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, a 6
well as to all clafles of people, merchams, mei
chaurcs and farmers. Such a reputation has this
work acquired, that it has passed thiO three im
prcflions in the eastern dates, and many houie
holders deem it so ufelul as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theii families. Price 2s.
February 4. dtJ
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Petersburg in Rufiia,
And now landing at South-ftfeet Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's duck,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No* 22, Walnut-ftrceU
March4,l794.
War Department.
January 30th 1794.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military invalids of the United States,that the
sums to which they are entitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on the sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the CommilHouers of the Loans
within the Hates refpettively, under the ufbal re
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
niuft be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpe&ive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the President
of the United States,
H. KNOX,
Secretary oj War,
The printers in the refpeftive states are
requested topublifh the above in their newspa
pers for the space of two months*
January 30.
AVIS.
LE habitans infortunes de la Colonic
de St. Dominguc qui dans i'mccndic du
C*p font vrnut cherchcr un afile dans les Etats
Unit font tnformea que la Republique leur ac
cord* un paffagc pour Fiance. Ib font invites
en consequence a fe presenter a cet effet di'ici a
huit jours chez les Consuls 8c agens de la Re
publique dans les diffferents Ports des Etats Unis.
A Phi ladelfhie, le 10 Ventos—l'an ad de
la Republiqur Franpife unt & indivisible.
(28 Fevrier, 1794. Vuux Jlile)
Le Miniftre Pleni potentlarc de la Kepubltque
Fran^aife.
JH. FAUCHET.
The editors of new/papers in the United States are
reqnejled to insert the above notice in their paper. 8.
d—tf
JOHN VAUGHANj
diwjta'wtf
dam
Jvft Imptrlld,
From London, Dublin, and Glasgow,
And now opening for fate,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Marltt-Jlrett,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following
NEW Annual llegilter for 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of i 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester f'oticty, 3 tols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Joftin
Kingville's aneient geography
D'AuOirs of Guy Joli
Memty,a collection of essays
Varieof Prussia's works
Calm obfervei —by Mackintosh
Ruflell's ancient arid modern Europe
J-anghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extra&s, Qiperbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Briffon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels In Spain
Taflo's Jerufaleiu aelivered
Smellie's translation of Bulfon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Bnifon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
'NVhitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
I inlay's description of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Jdhnfon
Necker on executive powfer
Kifles of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb Engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialifin and imniaterialifni
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China .
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on poltical justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaftnes's fleet ches of the history of man
Liberal opinion?, or the history of BenignuS
Mawe's gardener's di&ionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhoufc dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral fentimfcnts
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip I Id- & lUd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
•, man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Poland,B:C*
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to fenxiles
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes oti the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise en fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's dilTertations
London pra&ice of physic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry. d
FOR SALE,
By MATHF.W CAREY, Nb. üB,
Market-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery:
Designed to exhibit in a new point of view,
its effc&s on morals, indvjlry, and the ptace 'of
ocuty. Some fa&s and caJculations zte offered
to prove the labor of j*cemen to be much more
produdivc than that 01 Jlaves ; that countries arr
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruita of their own
labor ; and hence the nrctfoty conclusion, that
flavcry is impolitic as well as vrjujl.
Price 25 Cents.
February 15,
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFLJLLY informs his friends and
the public, That from the encouragement
he has received* from several refpeftable Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his services to
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidence
io him ; and he alTures those who employ him,
that their confidence shall not he misplaced;—
but it (hall be his conflant endeavor, to pay the
ltri£left attention to their best interest, in all ne
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber,
in staU'Strect t over Mr. David Toiunfcndy Watch
Maker's Shop.-; Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of ali kinds, are bought and fold; and
where Cottimiffion Bufitiefs of all kinds, will bfc
tranfadedon reasonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be constantly exposed for Lie, on
com million.
* # * Calti paid for Salem, Providence, and
Ponfmouih BILLS.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York, has any Bujtnefs to t ran (ast •at B ojl on;
in Paper Negotiations, he uiill be happy to be em
ployed on commijjiok.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794.
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON the 31ft of last month, the fubfcribrr ad
drcffcd a letter 10 Messrs. Thomas Pearfall
(3 Soti t merchants in New-York, and incloied
therein a bank note, No. 445, for twenty dol
lars ; one ditto, No. 151, lor thirty dollars
and one ditto, No. 3,866, for twenty dollars.
—He aljp add 1 tiled a letter to Mr. Gilbert
Saltonjialiy mcrchaiu in New-Yoik, indofing a
bank bill, No. 148, for fiftv dollars, indorsed
on the back thereof in their words—Pa\ the
within to Mr. Gilbert Saltonjlafl—Esen. Hunting
ton."—He also add retted a letter to MtiTrs. White
& Wardelly merchant* in New-Yoik, and inclo
sed a bank bill for teh dollars, and a draft in fa
vor of said White & Wariell, which letters were
put in the Poll-Office on said 31ft January, ta
be for warded~lo New-York: But by letters re
ceived from the Gentlemen to whorfi they were
severally addrelfcd, the mohef was robbed
from each letter before delivery.
The Public are rctjuefted to endeavor a dej
te&ion of the Villains who committed the above
robbery. The bill indorsed, I think was a York
bank bill, and foine others, one or more waa
of the United States banki remitted at Philadel
phia. Any petfon difcovcriug the Thief, and
returning the Money, shall be entitled to fifty
dollars reward.
EB£N. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, 14'h Feb. 1794*
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from a&ual survey* by A. P; Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domihgo*
THIS Plan will be engraved on a plate 26
inches fquarc* ; and ii will contain an ex
act description of all the squares, ftrceu and
alleys in the City and Libcmes. The (ituation
of the fcfreral public btiiidihgs, such as the State-
House» City-Hal), Seat of Congrefsj Churches,
Meeting-Houfts, Hbfpital, Library and Semina
ries of Learning-— of the seVeral Banks, and of
the Federal and Stale will be ascertained.
The parts which are built on will be diftingui(h
ed from those that are not. Thecourfes of th«
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended to eofcotfl the
navigation ot these two watefs, as lies within
the cortipafs of the draught, will be accurately
delineated* It will also be ornamented by a
view of the (hipping in the harbor, and an ele»
vation of Congress-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In fhortj nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and desirable Work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power:
and it (hall be compleated with the greatest
possible dlfpatch, as soon as the generous encou
ragement of fubfertbers (hall insUre to the author
such a sum at will be lufHcicnt to defray ex»-
pences.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the Subscribers names, and information con
cerning the police, population and prefect ftatc
of the city.
The price to fubfcribm will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at the time of deliver
ing the Plan*.
Subscriptions will be gratefully received at
the principal Booksellers iu this city—and the
original Draft may be seen at B. Davxes*,
No. 68, Market-street, at any time until it (hall
be put into the hand* of the Engraver.
Feb 28.
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY, 1
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant* s Coffee-Hovfe of this
City :—*•
RtbPECI FULLY informs his Friends and
the Public in general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shipf>en-Strcct, be
tween Third and Fourth-Streets, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly improved, and is now
very commodious ; where he has turnifhed him
(eirwith ihcbrft of LIQUORS, and will fur
nilh a TAH-Lfc for Parties, with the best provi
uons the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
Ihorteft notice. From his long experience in
this line of hufiiiefs, he flatters hiinfelf he (hall
be able to give fatisfadion to all who may please
to favor him with iheir company.
Philadelphia, Jjnuary 29,1794.
PHILADELPHIA;
Printsd by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourtk-Street.
uiw&ftf
m&thif