EVE
[No. y6 of Vol. V.]
For Sale or Charter,
ayLn The Ship
ANDROMACHE,
(an American bottom)
& John Moore y Master ;
is a iiout good vefiel, about two years old,
burthen 232 tons, has only made three voy
ages, and may be sent to Tea at a small ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
Wharton & Lewis.
dtf
Feb. 12, 1794.
For Amsterdam,
The new faft-faiHng, copper
bottomed SHIP
fill ADRIAN A
K. Fitzpatrick, Mailer.
BUJLTof live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or pafiage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
TIIOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. PafTengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794. dtf
For Frederick Qjurgh and
Falmouth,
(Rappahannock River, Virginia)
THE SCHOONER
Fr iendjhip,
jrHenry Macnamara,Matter
Will fail on Saturday next. For freight or
pafiage apply to the Captain on board, at
John Wain's Wharf, or to
Emanuel Walker.
WHO HAS FOR SALE,
VIRGINIA TOBACCO, FLOUR,
WHEAT, and GINSENG
March -
Just Imported,
111 the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amlterdam, and now landirtg
on Walnut-street wharf, viz,
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Ducky
Ditto Oznaburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glass IVare, 'viz. Tumblers and Mugs, 'va
rious fixes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Irorty square and Jlat bars,
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c.&c.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun,
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
fbould application he made within a few days ;
otherwise Jbe will take freight for Amjler
dvm.
March 1, 1794.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandon, from
St. Peterlburg in Ruflia,
And now landing at South-ilrect Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's bristles.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-street.
diw;tawtf
March 4,1794.
WHEREAS an alus fubpcena has ifluedi
out of the Supreme Court of this Com
monwealth, at the suit ot Marcarit Evans,
upon a petition preferred by the said Marga
ret, praying for a Dtvorce from the bonds of
Matrimony, entered into with Rob ert Ev a ns.
This is to give oonce to the said Rob e rt, that
he be and appear at thr said Supreme Court, to
be held at the City of Philadelphia on Monday
the seventh day ol April next, at the State-House
in the said City, to answer the matters a Hedged
in the said petition.
Wm. chapman,
Sheriff ot Bucks County,
March 5, 1794-
7# Robert tvans. t
©anltr of tf»t fpltttto #tales
NI N G
W A NT ED,
A Man Servant,
Who is acquainted with the common duties
about a house. None need apply but such
as can be well recommended.
March 4,
A Slitter of Iron
WANTED.
A MAN well (killed in rolling and
flitting Iron into Sheets, may have
good encouragement by calling on the
Printer. Feb. 27. t -°iM t
In hog.
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
In pipes, hog (heads and quarter calks,
Jan. 2, 1794.
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock-
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity ol Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Feb. 20.
Exhibition of Artificial
Chineje Fire-Works,
Without powder, smell, or smoke.
MR. STUVER returns his sincere thanks
to the public for the great encourage
ment he has met with, and has the honor to
inform them, that his exhibition will be con
tinued every evening (Sundays excepted) at
7 o'clock) in Cherry-Alley, the firft door weft
of Fourth-street. Tickets for grown persons
i id. and for children 6d.
3twff
Select parties confiding of ten or more per
sons will be admitted from 8 o'clock until 10,
notice being given the afternoon previous to
the exhibition. Tickets one quarter dollar.
March 4.
TREASUR rofPENNSTL VAN lAt
February 14, 1794.
PUBLIC Notice is hereby gtven 10 all perlons,
indebted to the Commonwealth, tor monies
borrowed of the Trustees of the Loan Office,'
eftabliihed per a£l of the 4th ol April, 1785,
that the lime is expired when the last paym.nt
fh<>uld have been made, and every juftifiable
indulgence having been granted, That unlets
they come forward and pay off their refpcdive
balances on or before the firft day of April next,
precepts will issue agatnft all delinquents with
out regard to peifons 01 circumstances. All
former and exift'ng fheriffs, who have money
in their hands belonging to said Office, are re
queued to bring it to me on or before the above
period, otherwise I fh 11 be under the disagree
able neccflity of profecuiing them without dif
tinflion.
a—tf
P. S. The Printers throughout ihe State are
rcqueftcd to in'.ert the above in their papers for
the information of their feilow-citiicns. d
Agreeably to the lift Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deccafed,
The House N°
On which itftands, wherein James Biddle
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
street, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet 10 inches in
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
117 feet deep. The whole will be fold fub
je<Sl to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their fucceflors
forever. For ferms apply to
•law^w
March I, 1794.
Tuesday, March 11, 1794.
Enquire of the Printer.
dtf
Excellent CLARET,
rafts of 50 l>o 11les each.
A I. SO,
:acis and In
MADEIRA,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South From-tree!
Street:—
A few Bales of Ruftu Sheetings,
Tookay, ciitto.
Holland Gin in Gaffs,
A Quantity of Brirnltonr,
With a Variety of other Goods.
3» aw6w
Vivat Respuelica
CHRISTIAN FEBIOER.
TO BE SOLD,
• 2 45>
AND
Lot of Ground
Samufi. Coates,
Jonathan Jones,
Anthony W. Morris,
Samuel Powfll Griffiths,
Surviving Executors of
Deborah Morris, dcc'd.
*eop jw
AND
AD V E
For Sale by the Subscribers,
MUSCOVADO Sugar in hhus. & bbls.
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, in pipes
and quarter calks.
Spanish fndigo.
Boston Beef, in barrels.
And a small invoice of Muslins.
NALBRO' & JOHN FRAZIER,
No. 164, South Front-street.
March 8,
Writing
ON SIGN-BO J RDS, JAPANN'D
PLATES, £«)V
Done in the mcft elegant manner, and after
the lirft matters ; lik^wife,
Fire Buckets
Painted and fiaifhed at the notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth iireets.
March 4,
CC/* This Gazette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement—The SubJcription
encrcafes daily—Advertising Favors are
follcited —These conjiitute an ejjentlal Item
in dtminijh'mg the Debit fid: of the Account,
NEW-YORK, March 8.
TOWN-MEETING.
The Citizens of New-York having as
sembled yeftcrday, in the large room of
the Federal-Hall, purfaant to their ad
journment of Thutfday, 2 7thult. to dis
cuss the resolutions reported by their com
mittee. took them into confidenaion ;
and the fame being read, and afterwards
considered separately, and difcufled, were
unanimoujly agreed to,and applauded with
repeated cheers. The Hall,not withstand
ing the very stormy weather, was remar
kably crouded, and contained on a mode
rate estimate, 2000 citizens.
The unanimity and modeiation that
prevailed, afforded the highest fatisfac
tion to every friend to order ; while the
firm, but decent spirit of the resolutions,
can give no offence to any, but those
whose approbation freemen are not felici
tous to obtain. The citizens resolved that
their thanks should be presented to their
committee, and then departed with the
greatest order and decorum.
[Here follow the Resolutions.]
Resolved, That sovereign and indepen
dent nations, in cafe of war existing be
tween neighbouring or foreign powers,
have a right to declate their determination
to preserve a ltri£l neutrality towards the
refpe&ive nations at war: that the fulfil
ment of treaties existing between either
of the belligerent powers, and the neu
tral nation, published and declared previ
ous to the existence of the cause of war,
ought not to be construed as a breach of
that neutrality, which they declare them
selves determined to observe ; and conse
quently, that the United States of Ame
rica, as a free, sovereign, and indepen
dent power, have a right, founded upon
the law of nations, to declare and pre
serve their neutrality, at the fame time
that they fulfill, with justice and integri
ty, previously existing treaties.
Resolved, That when either of the bel
ligerent powers interrupt filch neutrality,
so declared and persisted in, by committing
spoliation and depredation upon the pro
perty of such neutral nations or its citi
zens, they are guilty of a violent infrac
tion of the laws of nations, and an unjult
exercise yf their power; and therefore,
the capture for prize or condemnation of
the vefTels and cargoes of the citizens of
these "United States, not concerned in a
contraband trade, by either of the bellige
rent powers or their fubjetts, i 3 unjuftifia
ble, and an infringement on those privi
leges, which the citizens of an indepen
dent and neutral nation have a right to
exercise and enjoy.
R T I S E R.
[Whole A T o. 554.
Refolveri, That it is the opinion of this
meeting, that it is the duty of belligerent
nations to lefien the horrors of war, and
mitigate diltref*-, not only by permitting
neutral nations to remain in tranquility,
but to protect all their l.iwiul commcrcc
and navigation ; when therefore,they mul
tiply the evils of war without ncceffity, &
wantonly and in a piratical manner har
rafsthe pefions, or make prize of the pro
perty of nations or their citizens who are
at peace, and declare their intentions to
remain ip, thsy violate the laws of nations
the obligations of justice, of nature, and
of reason.
fmw4w
Resolved, That the making of veflels
or cargoes, the property of neutral na
tions or their citizens prize, or forcibly de
taining the fame, to the damag# and loss
of the owners, not being contraband, is
unjuft„and that full compensation andref
titution is due from the belligerent power
so trefpalfing, to the party injured, and
to the nation thus insulted, and ought to
be demanded of right, and if refilled, that
the neutral nation thus situated, is juitifi
able by the laws of uature and of nations
to Seek restitution, in any mode the molt
likely to obtain redress.
Resolved, That the conduct of Great
Britain since the treaty of peace with the
United States of America, has not been
conformable to the true intent and mean
ing of that treaty ; but on the contrary,
by withholding the posts on our north
western frontier, and keeping up a milita
ry establishment within our territory, the
government of Great Britain has violated
their national faith, and usurped the rights
of our people ; that the non-fulfilment of
tiiis part of the treaty, oil the part of
Great Britain, occasion» very serious in
convenience to our country and govern
ment, particularly as fueh conduct lias a
tendency to keep alive the hostile spirit of
the savages, and impedes those measures,
which would produce on the part of our
government, pcace and tranquility to our
frontiers.
Resolved, That as far as the govern
ment of the United States have pursued
raeafures to effect the fulfilment of exist
ing treaty—to preserve its neutrality—
and to obtain a restitution of property to
its plundered citizens, it is entitled to the
warmest approbation of the people. But
that the delays which have been experi
enced in procuring relief from the evils
complained of j however unavoidable on
the part of government; have been pro
ductive of great distress to the people;
and that every day that passes finds us left
prepared for decisive operations, becaafe
every day discovers a new faarifice to fo
reign rapacity ; and perhaps when forced
to the last means of redress, we shall be
found without (hips, without feamcn, and
be the poverty attendant on a ruined trade.
Resolved, That in the progress of the
important questions which at present en
fage the attention of, the Executive and
.egiflative Branches of the government
of the United States, it (hould to them
appear expedient to place the ports and
harbors of our country in a refpe&able
state of defence, capable ot placing us as a
nation, above the fear of injury, or the ap
prehensions of insult ; or to make any mi
litary or marine arrangements, which the
exigency of affairs may require—That the
citizens of New-York, jealous for the ho
nor, and willing to support the dignity
of their country and government, will
cheerfully submit to any tax (if the pre
sent revenues of their country are irtcom
petent) which in the wifdorn of their r~-
prefentarivrt may appear necessary to de
fray the expence attending the support of
our independence as a nation, the honor of
our flag, and the dignity of our country
and government.
Resolved, That the chairman of th's
meeting be dire£kd to fend to Mr. John
Watt«, the reprefeutative of the city and
county in Congress, the aforegoing resolu
tions, in which the sense of his conftituenti
in this meeting it expreflcd.Congress vj the United Stjtes.
IN SENATE,
fCQMTINOED.J
And fnbjomed. ii the Hatcmcnt of fa£t*
exhibited bj Mir. Gallatin, and agreed to
b.-t ween h'.m and the couufel for the peti
tioners, as mentioned the 20t.11 instant.
A'bert Gallatin was born at Genevaon
the 39th day of January, 17&1. —He left
tl) t ;,!acc for the United States in April
or May 1780, arrived in Bolton (<Malfa
c'tuifetts) on the 14th-! sth July of the
fame year, and has cvet since resided with
in the United States. In October, 1780,
lie removed from Boston to Machias in
the Province of Maine, in which place and
its neighborhood he rclided one year and
commenced a fcttlement on a trail of va
cs-it land. During that time, he furnifh
ed out of his own funds, supplies (amount
ing iii value to more than sixty pounds
Massachusetts currency to Col. John Al
len (who was the commanding officer Ra
tioned there and also fuperintendaht of
Indian affairs for the eaitern department)
for the ule of the American troops,& on
several ocealionsaCled as a volunteer under
the l:.me officer's command. For the said
supplies, he received one year after, a
warrant on the JTreafury of the state of
Maflachufetts, which he fold at a conii
derab'e depreciation. In October, 1781,
he returned to Boston ; and in the spring
of was, by a vote of the corpora
tion of the nniverfity of Cambridge (other
wise called Harvard College) chosen in-
Urucloroi the French language of the said
university, By the fame vote he was al
lowed a room in the college,' the privilege
of the commons at the tutors' table, the
life of the library, and also the right of
having his pay (which depended on the
\oluntary fubfeription and attendance of
the Audeats) collected by the steward of
the iuftitution together with the other
charges again ft the Undents fur board and
education. Those terms he accepted, and
remained in that station for the term of
one year. In July, 1783, he removed to
FeJinfylvailia, and in November of the
fame year proceeded to Virginia, in which
state he had purrhafed more than 1060
acres of land (and amounting to more than
one hundred pounds Virginia currency in
value) some time between July and No
vember, 1783. Between this last menti
oned period and the month of October,
1785, he purchased other lands in the said
state to a very large amount, and in the
said la I mentioned month he took an oath
of allegiance to the said ftate—ln Decem
ber 1785, he purchased the plantation in
Fayette country in Pennsylvania on which
ke has lived ever fincc. In October, 1789,
he was elected member of the Convention
lo amend the Constitution of Pennsylvania,
and in October, 1790, 1791, and 1792,
he was elected member of the Lcgiflature
pi the fame state. On the 28th February,
J 793, he was chosen Senator to represent
the said state in the Senate of the United
States and took his feat in December sol-
lowing.
The Senate adjourned until 11 o'clock
On Monday morning.
Monday, March 3.
The communications referred to in the
meflage of the President of the United
States of the 26th February, were in part
read.
On motion.
Ordered, That the further reading of
them at this time be postponed.
The following written meflage was re
ceived from the President of the United
States by Mr. Dandridge his Secretary.
United States 3d.March, 1794.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and of
the House of Representatives,
I transmit to you, an extract from a
letter of Mr. Short, relative to our affairs
with Spain ; and copies of iwo letters
from our Minister at their
enclcfures, containing intelligence from
Algiers—The whole of these communica
tions are made in confidence, except the
paflage in Mr. Short's letter, which ref
pefts the Spanilh convoy.
G. Washington.
The meflage and papers therein referred
to, were read.
ordered, That they lie for considera
tion.
A meflage from the President of the
United State* by Mr. Dandridge hit Se
cretary.
" Mr. President—The President of the
United States hath this day approved and
signed the ast entitled, " Art ast in alter
ation of the ast cftabliftiing a mint and re-
gn*i>tiiij the coins of tlie United States."
lOrdered, T.nat the S-'eretary commu
nicate this notification to the lluufe of
Representatives.
The Vice-Prefiiknt laid before the Se
nate a Lttei 1 from the Secretary for the
Department rff T-'c'iiury, tranl'mitting re
ports on the petitions of.Barent I. Staars,
and of £li(ha Sennet, which were lev dal
ly read.
O. dered, That they lie forconfideration.
The petition of Peter Trezevant, of
the State of South-Carolina, was lead,
piaying compeniation Tor certain goods
bought of Robert larqnhar, and stated to
be for the use of the United States, thb'
purchased by order and appropriated to
the moie immediate use of the state of
Georgia.
Ordered, That this petition lie on the
table.
Mr. Cabot reported from the commit
tee to whom was referred the bill, sent
from the House of Representatives for
concurrence, entitled, " an ast for the
remission of the duties ariiing on the ton
nage of sundry French vessels which have
taken refuge in the ports of the United
States," that this bill pass the Senate;
and the bill was read the lecond time.
On motion,
Ordered, That the rule be dispensed
with, and that tl.is bill now have the
third reading.
Refolvcd, That this bill pass.
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the Houte of Representatives with the
concurrence of the Senate in this bill.
The Senate adjourned until 11 o'clock
to morrow morning.
Tuesday, March 4th, 1794.
The Senate resumed the reading of the
communications referred to in the mes
sage of the President of the United States,
of the 26th of February, and afte*>pro
grefs, the further reading thereof was
poltponed.
Mr. Martin from the committee ap
pointed the 22d of February, to consider
the report of the Secretary of the Trea
sury refpe&ivg a light house on Cape
Hatteras, reported " a bill to erect a
light houfeon the head land, and Cape
of Hatteras; and a lighted beacon oil
Occacock Illand in the State of North
Carolina," which was read the firfl time.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the fe
cond reading.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
Wednesday, March Jth, 1794
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley, their Clerk :
" Mr. President—the House of Repre
sentatives have pal Ted the resolution sent
from the Senate for concurrence, propo
sing to the several States an amendment
to the constitution of the United States,
refpefting the judicial power."
" They have passed n bill, entitled " an
ast authorizing a'loan of one million of
dollars," in which they delire the concur
rence of the Senate." And he with
drew.
The following written meflage was re
ceived from the Prelident of the United
States, by Mr. Dandridge, his Secreta
ry
United States, sth March, 1794.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
of the House of Representatives,
" THE Secretary of State, having re
ported to me upon the several complaints
which have been lodged in his office, a
gainll the vexations and spoliations on
our commerce, since the commencement
of the European war : I transmit to you
a copy of his (latement, together with
the documents upon which it is founded.
G. WASHINGTON.
The meflage and papers therein refer
red to, were read.
Ordered, That they lie for considera
tion.
The Senate resumed the reading of the
communications referred to in the meflage
of the President of the Unfted States, of
the z6th of February last.
Ordered, That they lie for confidcra
tion.
The bill sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" an ast authorizing a loan of one mil
lion of dollars," was read'the firft time.
Ordered,. That this bill pass to the ftf -
cond reading.
The bill to erect a light house on the
head land, and Cape of Hatteras, and a
lighted beacon on Occacock I(land in the
State of North Carolirta, was read the
second time.
Ordered, That Monday next be assign-
fof the further consideration cf this
Wii.
After the consideration of the execu
tive buiiiftfs,.
The Senate adjourned until 11 o'clock
tu moriOw morning.
Tliurfday, March 6th, 17.94.
Mr. Cabot, from the committee to
whom was referred the bill, sent from the
House of Representatives for concur
rence, entitled, an adt "making appropria
tions for thefupportot government, for the
year one thoufaod (even hundred and
ninety four," reported amendments, which
were read and adopted.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the third
reading.
The bill sent from the Honfe of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled " an
ast authorizing a loan of one million of
dollars," was read the second time.
On motion,
Ordered, That this bill be referred to
Mr. liutler, Mr. Cabot, and Mr. Haw
kins to corifider and report thereon to the
Senate.
After the consideration of the executive
bufmefs,
The Senate adjourned until 11 o'lock
to morrow morning.
CONGRESS
House of Rcprefmtat'ives.
Monday, March 10.
( Continued. J
Mr. Parker presented the resolutions of
several Towns and Counties, in the State
of Virginia, relative to the measures new
pending before Congress respecting- Com
merce—the general import of which were
in favor of the principles contained in Mr.
Madison's Resolutions—these were read
and laid on the Table.
Thebill providing for fortifying the poits
and harbors of the United States was re
ported, read twice, and committed for to-
morrow.
The bill providing a naval armament
for the protection of the commerce of the
United States, was brought in engrafted
and read.
A motion was made to recommit it to
the committee of the whole house.
This motion was principally supported
on the ground of the feleft committee's
having deviated from the report of the
committee bf the whole—which report
conncfted the ways and means of defray
ing the expence of the armament with
the details of the armament, whereas the
bill contains 110 such c'timate—for the
fake therefore of order and regularity in
conducting the public business it was said,
it is proper to agree to the motion—lt
was further observed, that no injury could
pofiibly result from a ihort delay, equal
to what would be the cur, Sequence of sanc
tioning such a flagrant deviation on the
part of the felefl: committee from the ef
tablilhed rules of the house—That it was
quite a new thing to drive a business of
such magnitude with such impetuosity
thro' the house. '
In opposition to the motion it was iro
nically observed, that as the carrying trade,
and the trade to the mediterranean
were of so triflng importance, it was real
ly Surprizing that the business of providing
a protection for the commerce of this coun
try, exposed at this moment to the depre
dation of the Algerines, (hould be hurried
with so much impetuosity, thro' the house
—three months have already elapsed,
great part of which this fubjeft has been
under consideration—to steer clear there
fore of impetuosity in conducing the bu
siness, three months more ought to be fuf
fered to pass before any thing is done—
With refpeft to the conduct of the fe
left committee it was said that in the iirft
difcuilion of the fubjeft the report was
objected to on account of the ways and
means being connected with it—to remove
this objv&ion the bill was reported in the
form before the house.
The motion being put for rccommft
ting—it pafled in the negative, 48 to 41.
The hcufe then proceeded to fill up the
blanks—ln the course of filling up the
blanks, the opposition to the bill was re
vived on old and new grounds—the fiift
were, on account of its incompetency to
the objeft—confidcring the resources of
the Algerinef—and the flipenor policy of
having recoiirfe to negoci.ition, and pur
chase of a peace—the new ground wns de
rived from rec;nt confidential communica
tions, from which it was inferred that the
.eligibility of tfie mode of pvocuring' a
pcace by purchafc was greatly ftrength
cned—From this view of the 'iiibjeti, a
tranStion was made to the fubjfft of na.
vies generally—in which the bad ponfe
quences qonnefted with their dlabjjfliment
were depicted in animated iotbs—Tbe
blanks were at length all filljxf, and on the
question shall the bill —the yeas and
nays were as follow :
AYES.
Mefirs. Ames, Beatty, Boudinot, S.
Bourne, B. Bourn, Cadwallader, Cobb,
Coffin, Coit, Dearborn, Dent, Dexter,
Fitzlimons, Folter, Gilbert,Giiman, Glen,
Goodhue, Gordon, Griffin, Hancock,
Hillhoufe, Hinaman, Holten, Kitten,
Learned, Lee, Lyman, Malbor.e, P. Muh
lenberg, Murray, Parker, Scot, Sedgwick,
J. Smith, S. Smith, W. Smith, Sprigg,
Swift, Talbot, Thatcher, Tracy, Trum
bull, Van Alen, Van Gaafbeck, P. Wadf
worth, J. Wadfwcith, Ward, Watts,
Winn—50.
NOES,
Mefirs. Bailey, Baldwin, Bionnt,Carnes>
Chriflie, CLiiborne, Coles, Findley, Giles,
Gillefpie, Greenup, Grove, Harrifon,
Heath, Heitter, Kunter, Irwine, Locke,
Macon, Madison, M'Dowe!!, Msrhane,
Montgomery, Moore, Nevil, New, Nicho
las, Niles, Page, Preston, Smiley, 1. Smith,
Treadwell, VanCortlandt, Venable, W.ilk
er, Williams, Wingate, Winfton— 39.
UNITED STATES.
NEW-YORK, March 7,
Copy of a letter from Captain Olrien, to
James Simpfon, Esq. at Gibralter, dat
ed Algiers, the 2 Sth November, gib
captivity.
Dear friend,
Your letter of the I2thinftant, I re
ceived the 25 th. It is a long period since
I heard from you ; but hope you will be
this way Ihortly from Toulon.
The Algerines, in their October expe
dition, captured 10 fail of American
vefTels ; g of them have fafely arrived.
The crews of tfiofe 10 veJTels, amount
ing to 102 men, are at present in Algiers,
experiencing what we have fuffered for
upwards of 8 years.—l have repeatedly,
for the r e five years part, forewarned the
United States of the impending danger ;
for the Portug use have been trying a
long time to effect a peace with Algiers;—
but the Americans in genjral would put
but little confidence in the assertions of a
poor victim captive; but they now find
that they contained the truth.
On the nth instant, Mr. Humphreys,
the ambaflador for Algiers, sent hither a
con. ier to obtain the Dtfv's p,-i million to
come hither in order to make a peace.
The Dey answered, that he would not re
ceive him, either to make peace or redeem
the American (laves—that he had been
soliciting the Americans to come and make
a peace with this regency for three years
palt, and they had treated his proporti
ons with neglect and indifference ; and
that finci he had made a truce with the
Dutch and Portuguese, and captured 10
fail of Americans, and like to take many
more, he could not and would not make
peace with them : That he had made the
truce with Portugal for thepurpofc of cap
turing American vefTels, and could not
therefore be at peace with all the na ions.
The courier returned to Mr. Humphreys
at Alicante with the Dey's reply—but
we have heard nothing more since.
The terms preferred by the Dey for
the reliefof the Portuguese, is as follows:
1,200,000 Mexican dollars for thetreafu
r;r; 600,000 dollars for the Dey's voice
and the great officers of the regency, am.
bafiadorial and consular prefcnts—equal
to what Spain gave ; and the redemption
of 7 J Portuguese captains at 2000 dol
lars each. On the 7th instant, the Portu
guese frigate failed from Algiers for Lis
bon with the Dey's propositions.
The day following, the Dey called
for Captain Logic, and desired he would
immediately write to Portugal, and in
form that he demanded for his family and
friends 600,000 dollars in addition to the
terms above exprefled.
The A!; serine politicians are of opini
on that Portugal will not agree to the
Dry's demands; but, fir, I think they,
w.ll, as they wirti to extend their com
merce, and well know the difficulty of
blocking l: p the Streights, and the vafV
Aims they expend in keeping up the fleet*
the Barbary states.
I enclofc to your care tjhe letters of the
Cr.pt :i:ns, who desire me to <%t>k you for
your kind offer. I a lift, as
c(,rre£l as my situation w3l admit of.
Please to make this public. A camp on
>thes Mifitiippi would mak: Spain do much
iathis quarter.
Your obedient servant,
O'BRIEN.
James Simpfon, Efq,
Amsnc.vi bfi at Ctir:ha;ena, by the
brig Morning Stjr, Jam 's Neil.
The (hip Mary, of Philadelphia, Cap
tain Henry Stevens, brig Marvann, of
New-York, Cnptain Ebenezer Rofleter;
Clip Friendlhip, of Baltimore, Captain
Smith - r the two former expected to fail
tinder convoy of a Portuguele frigate that
at Cartl'.a going down to Gibral
tar, and were all ready for sea ; waiting
only for the motion of the frigate : The
latter had two-thirdsof her cargo on board,
*>t being difeharged, having performed a
quarantine of 20 days; but expedled to
be ready for sea by the latter end of Ja
nuary j and if there was no profpeft of
getting a convoy, the Captain was- deter
mined to run it dawn the linl gale of Eas
terly wind.
The Captain further informs, that
there is no conlul eitabliflied at Carthage
na by Congress ; notwithllanding which
they did nut want for a (ulcere friend,
whom they found in Mr. Henry Hawfon,
merchant of Carthagena—he tranfatted
all tlieir business in the b(I manner; made
out their memorial and forwarded it to
Court, took the utmoli pains to obtain
information concerning the Algerine cor
iairs; and, in Cnort, conferred on them
every civility in his power. The four
Captains who were there at that time, de
c'are they never experienced so much
friend Vp from aiy mm, and without the
prefect of interest or hope of reward.
We hope that Congress and the reft of
our countrymen, will take this into con
sideration ; as meeting with so valuable a
friend in such a critical time, rr.uft be a
fv rneient recommendation to Congress to
appoint him consul there, fnouldour com
mjree extend that way. We can allure
them, that it would be much to the inte
rest of those who go there, he being a
man universally refpe&ed, and able to
tranfadl bufiHefs in the best manner, which
is frequently found to be a difficulty in
this county.
Stevens, Nil!, 1 r, , ■
R'jjfeter, Smith, j C, P laini
Further particulars of the recapture of TOULON.
Ont!ie \§'h. oj December f»tn deserters Jromthe
French campinvyiing I o-lnn, entered that place, and
gave information that i general afjtu/t was Jhortly
intend'd on all the out pofls. The Ojieged maae pre
par at ions to receive thew On the • ight of the 16th.
at half pafl 11 o'clock, the attack commenced-, but wis
principally direFted again fl the Gia d Camp, or fort
which, commands the harbour• After very great car
ttage on to:k fidn, the afj" Hants became mafic- s oj it
next ■ nor ing about 8 o'c 'ock, taking some »■rfunerj .
On this d fajler a capital was edited, who concluded
to evacuate the place,and to carry away at many of
the Rc\a!ij!s as the. poffib'y could. Theft deter mi
na;ton\ firing taken, the arfeiat was burnt down.
On the 18th, the etnbark mo* commenced ; but Jo
gr.at was then precipitation, that tho' the Briufh
ftvei their ejfe I *, exceptJomepieces oj cannon, the
alli/t lojt tt.e whole-
The troops were soon 01 hoard lYhileTHc emhar
kn'on wis go-n\rn ) a cotifiJeruble boi\ of the Citi
zens, attached to the cause oj the Rep üblic, afjembled
arnt cried out Vive la Kepubiique, an J uould nave at
tached t e troops, but Lord Hood had some time be
fore d'faru.eel them, a'd rendered their intentions a
bcrtiv ! Ano'deruaf. however, given b\ the Bri
tish to difperfc the croud ; they were acroraingly fired
on, nnU anfiderab'e numbers killed. JnttiisConjn
Jioand under the mojl dreadful apptehcnficns of
indijcrimma'.efluvghtcr from their fuccefful coun
trymen, rr.a' uUae3 flocked down tothepiaceof em
barkation. and implored the Allies to receive them.
A', mhers went in boats with their ejfeTs and teach,
ed the veflels ; and very greit numbers in defpur
threw thcmfelves into the water, aid were drowned /
TheJight was fhockmg beyond conception ! On the
m the mo> ning, the fleets got under way, the
brtuffi proceed dto the iJUn { ts 0/ Hies, where they
remained. The Spanijh Jlcet filedfor i'arthagena,
*nd arrived there on the ijl of January.
On the evacuatron, immediate p(J'fJ/'or> was taken
bv the befiegtrs, uho ordered the inhabitants to col
led in tie Great Square—fepar at'dt*ie Republicans
from thoft u ho had traiteroufly fur rendered the p 'ace,
and put t!)e whole of the latter to the Sword — Ihe
Jormerwr ah the women were spared Ater exe
cuting v 1 istive jnflice in thi>Jummary manner, or
der u'tff i( it, ud.
These ivcnts, which took p'ace subsequent tj the
departure nj the fleets, were related by three Tou
lor efe who cfeped in a boat.
/' hen the Allies failed, they taok with them two
•fi'be French line of battle 3 frigates 9 hav-
Wty) it if Jail, previovjly burnt the rem nnder.
It is reported that w en Lord Hood fhnufd receiv
the expected reinforcement from EPg aid, he meant
o fail on an expedition againji the >flmd of Lorfica.
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 11.
A letter from St. Croix, dated 20th
February, 1794, contains the following
particulars. That one hundred fail of
Am -ican Veflels have been captured by
file jLngiiih Cruisers; vVho all a& under
the late instructions of the Britiili Govern
ment of the 6th November : that ' the
above veffcls are sent into St. Kitts, Ne
vis, Montferat and Dominico, that there
are 40 lail at the la!t place—that fifteen
thousand troops under the command of
Sir C. Jervis, have landed at there differ
ent parts of Martinique, on the wind
ward fide of the Island: That General
Roehambeau is at Port-Royal, where lie
is strongly polled, and determined to de
fend himfelf to the last extremity : That
the Enghfh expedt to conquer the Island,
and after that proceed to St. Domingo.
'there is a report in circulation, that'
Gen. Roehambeau has burnt St. Pierre's,
Martinique—that the British have taken
poiTeflioo of the port and harbor and all
the ihipping therein, American as well as
French,
THEsITRE.
OBSERVER No. IX,
Mr. Fenno,
LAST evening, was performed at the
New Theatre, the Comic Opera, Robin
Hood ; Mr. Darley, in the chara&er of
Robin Hood, Mrs. Warrell and Mils
Broadhui ft in the chara&ers of Clorinda
and Angelina, performed their parts so
well, that it would be injuftfee not to name
them, especially in the Son^s. —Mrs. War
rell and Mtis Broadhurft pofTefs voices of
the firft impreiiion for excellence; and
altho' different in many rel'pe&s, the audi
ence is ftrcngly impelled, to give the pre
ference to each, while iinging : if either
of them had a decided preference last even
ing, it was Mrs. Warrell in the air to
" the trump of fame, £i7<r," in the words
" o conquer with my oh, ho, bo /". She
discovers furprizfrig*power* in an accurate
division and transition of voice and found.
The bounds the Observer has set to tfcefe
occasional fetches, ; would be exceeded,'if
he indulged his feelings, in a detail of the
beauties of this performance : The two
leading motives to attend the Theatre,
are, to hear and fe y the firit was gratified
by a play, and music, both vocal and iii
ftiumental, of the firit rate ; the last was
more emphatically gratified last evening,
than u ual, by Scenery and dresses, both
fuptrb and elegant.—The Observer solicits
a repetition of this play, cfpecially as Mrs.
Marshall's indisposition during the per
formance, rendered it a little incomplete ;
and altho' fully sensible that the managers
arc the best judges, yet he thinks a repe
tition will excule the more a&ive duties
of the prompter.
The songs which fell to Mr. Mafftrall'i
part, are of the elegant and refined, and
were by him exhibited, in that itile ; but,
(Mr. Marshall will pardon a hint from the
Observer,) he spoke too fa ft, and did not
emphasize fufficiently intwoorthree fceiies,
it will be easy for him to mend in this par
ticular, as in the lcene of difqovery between
him and Angelina, he used cmphafis with
much propriety.
The performers are not aware, how
much they injure their own pretentions to
applause, by speaking too quick ; it is
true, a meaiured, monotonous manner, is
bad ; but flow enough to be diflinctly
heard at a distance, with proper cmphafis
and cadence, is absolutely required by an
audience, who attend the Theatre to be
pleased, and not always with proper al
lowance for venial faults—A hint to the
managers, is it not among poflibles to keep
better order in your gallery ? The stone
thrown last night from the gallery, is less
than you may hereafter calculate, unless
you take spirited measures.
The Observer has hinted to you before,
it is of importance that you adt upon thjs
occasion, without fear; you will be sup
ported. One word to the players ; com
mit your parts to memory, and have them
perfe&ly at command, and you can ad
well; lpeak well, gesticulate well, in short,
you cannot a & at all without ; this the
Observer mentions not as a new idea :—
but as such an important one ; that vou
will at lcaft commit itperfedly to memory.
A motion was this dav made in the
House of Representatives to take up Mi.
Madison's rcTolutions—but on its bcinf
observed that the bill for placing the ports
and harbors in a defenlive state was of
more immediate importance, the motion
was withdrawn.
The above bill was accordingly taken
int.) consideration by the committee of
the whole—amended—and finally passed
to be engrailed for a third reading".
Far the Gazette of the UnitfdStates.
>-*r. FfnscJ,
IT is aflerted In tie General Advert ifer of
yeftcrdjiy morning,that at a meeting of Mer
chants and Traders on Saturday Lift, the me
morial of their committee was negatived by
a considerable majority »
Eeing present at the meeting, I feel myfelf
hurt at a nufreprefentatiou, which I believe,
has originated with a view to create miichief
and diiorder in the community—The truth
is, no queflion was taken on the Report
Thequefiicn would probably have been put
if the room had not been over crouded w th
persons who were unknown, ether as Mer
chants or Traders ; the clapping and hiflmg
from persons, who appeared to be collected
for the purpose of cohfufmg the bufinefs.,ren
dered the usual mode improper, in the gene
ral. opinion; and in confluence, that of a
general signature was adopted to prevent a
poflibility of mistake.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, March 10.
Bxtrail from the Madrid Gazette, of Ja-
nuary 7.
A letter frcm (lis Excellency Don John
de Langara, Commandant General of
tile Spanish King's Squadron in the
Mfcditerranean, to his Excellency Bay
lio Don Automa tic Bakles, on the iub
je£t of burning the Arsenal and the
Tliipa at Totilon.
" I am anxious to give your Excellency
notice of the setting on fire of the arsenal
and the French (hips of Toulon, on the
18th of tki present month (December)
1 793, according to the account given by
the Lieutenant of the (liip DOll Pedro
Cotiella and Don Fianciico Riquelme,
whom I have commiifioned for this' objedt.-
" At 9 o'clock in the morning, Capt.
Sydney Smith, of an English (hip, inform-'
ed me, that Admiral Flood had commis
sioned him for the fitting on fire the arse
nal and the French (hips, and that he came
to join the officers whom I fiiould elect on
my part, to proceed, without delay, to
this operation, and (hat he had two boats,
with guns, tp place in the entry of the
arsenal, and ours were deltined at
Maibofquer. I disposed, that the Adju
tapt Don Francis Riquelme, fhcrld carry
those which he fnould find necessary ; in
the mean time 1 sent the- Lieutenant Don
Cotiella, with Smith and Riquelme, to
put tarred shirts on hoard the (hips of the
line ; the lirll going to the arsenal, and a
little afterwards the second where they
thought bell, to give orders to the com
mandants of the boats of the Spanish forts,
that they should put themselves in fafety
with diligence; they fixed two of the
Englifli and the gun boat commanded by
the Lieutenant of a frigate, Don F>an
ciico Truxillo, in the mouth of the arfe
n.il, to defend the entry from the enemy ;
then polted a strong army by the door of.
the arsenal, reinforced with a violent gun,
to pi event the coming of the common peo
ple, who were already in infurre&ion.
" Theobjeft was, to augment the num
bers of the tarred shirts. and to introduce
to the arsenal our sire-ship St. Louis Gou
laga. To give account of the dispositions
which were made, and of the iire of the
bombs of the enemy, which incommoded
the arsenal, the Adjutant Riquelme re
turned back again to the squadron ; and
in the mean time Coriella and Smith, his
officers, and Truxillo, extended barrels
of pitch and tar thro' the {tores of the ar
senal and the Pillau—fetting two English
boats to defend the galleys, ffiouid they
be attacked.
" At half pad seven in the evening,
Riquelme came back with a great num
ber of combultibles, entered the arsenal
with a fire ship of the English, passing be
fore many {hips which he boarded, and
put 10 (hirts in each, setting them all on
fire.
" At half past nine, the whole arsenal
was in flames."
Account of the French men of war and
otherveffels which were burnt in the
port of Toulon, the 18th December,
1 793-
Ships—The Royal Dolphin of 118
gun 3 ; Tonante, 80; Crown, 80 ; Lan
guedoc,Bo ; Triumphant, 74 ; Hero, 74;
fortunate, 74 ; Deftin, 74 ; Sufficient,
74; Commerce of Bourdcaux, 74; Three
Colors, 74 ; Centaur, 74; Generaux,74 ;
Dengaitrois, 74; Themiftocles,74} Dic
tator, 74; Censor, 74; Wanior, 74;
Sovereign, 74; Mercury, 74; Conquer
or, 74 j and one ready to launch, 74.
Frigate—Arethufa, 40 18 pounders ,
—, 34 12founders; Iris, ditto; Ipheginia
ditto; Sertn, ditto; Aleirftis,ditto; Sul
tan, ditto ; and the Montreal, ditto.
Moop of war—Sardinie.
Armed Tranf ports—Caroline, Augufl,
Sine, re, Rain, Lriitiprv, Mofel, Forward.
Brigaptincs*—"Preparer, Little Sans Cu
lottes, Little Boftoii ; Society of Ayeau,
Vigilance, and the Liberty.
•Seveiulfmftll viflela, Juhn Var, ,
and fcvcril boats in the haifcor.
Ships,
Frigates,
Sloops of \tar,
Armed Tranlports,
Brigantines,
Latine vefl'els,
Boats,
T)o\\ I'aldes i cinnnuriduvt gentrai of the
Xpantfh trcopi, with /, ij adj.,tun!, ur,u tht la rr of
the Hret !'<"• Ignttci,' O/tm, prote'Jed lie Hoefivn
their embatki g. the Stiaviard* rprere.i the adtar ■ e
gnmnd. dt.i avoided, b\ this weans till //«
' 'A* n ■ heinj afjurtu of It-pi t'lf'tn i,,ie 0/ f„, ~Ut
th- iiiyt £?&lijh*tilfj vt.uri in ' I'd. «...
prompt that tl'tad' ott,ii"ed wififfi't thoje trrbo.rr [>-
ttre' t) i' hii li ntt jlit hni t taken i lite I 'itg T e»tc/t e
t'll u h:ch nas expertcmU, nai, that tin-. rati rc ,1 >.
lor us 10'- other conveniences jtirlheJhc.'c < \ but i- >
Jfreuif \of the Comma/i (fa t t r apd, 8 ( cngta/ foci,
hfated the embarkation, in a vtr\/// *t rif>< r ? 0 t ,;, cco
11 nop/, 'co fit h. and a'gir >/ »nH le>' Aoya/iAj : a /J
tin fight of .the enemy who evert net lej- than
f !r **g) according to the dec/a? dfiom of th< a f cr .
ten. Ju' tnotu'ted 6>cco. the not, , r j,/
pijf'ffion ; for the French who ho•/ rrv- n r ed in /onion
declared them/ehei patriots, whio'i ejfifr the orde* ( ,/
Genera/ Vaidd to emhatir. had Uj Iced, and zchich
uas expe fled by his a f rot/, obf ,vjt or, and the cou
rage n ith it huh it was executed.
mre jo/lows a ( : e> era/ Order andJotoe rnnarhs
f bchit was not bofjihleJor «« t t-<rJl trti in fea
theje Wc jiiid, that Toulon ttaj et.iiitl) de-
Jt'oycd.]
Extras or a letter from Montftrrkt, dated
Jan. 6, to a gentleman in BoftOn.
M A Danish (loop, belonging to M Art*
Miller and Mufpkey, of St. Tli>m2s, fa den
with sugar at Guadalcnipe, and bound to' St.
i homas, has been taken by a privateer, and
sent in here—and the Hoop &. cargo are con
demned."
SHIP NEWS.
Bcf.cn, Mdrch 3.
A letter from Captain -Blunt, dated
Charleftcn, (S. C.) Jan. 26, 1794, has.
the following paragraph :
" I fliall lail for London (with a freight
of rice) in a few days, and shall make,
£ 1400 Sterling, freight/'
The veffc] Capt. Blunt commands, i»
about 250 tons burthen.
The following is a fift of veflTels which,
failed from Charlelton, (S.C.) 011 the 1 oth
111 ft. under convoy of the British Kufiar,
of 28 guns, Captain George, bound for
Europe, viz.
Ships—Harmony, Crumby ; Pacific,
Kennedy ; Minerva, Payne; Federalist,
Pratt; Heneiicus 4th, Efkell; NarcifTus,
Seaman ; Hero, Blunt. Barque Hope,
Banbridge. Brigs—Romulus, Wallace ;
Mary*, Kerr ; Tortola,Shroudy ; Miner
va* Randall; Mary, Motion.
NEW THEATRE.
ON WEDNESDAY EVENING,
March IP.,
Will be pel farmed,
A TRAGEDY,
CALLED
DOUGLAS.
Lord Randolph, Mr. Green,
Glenalvon, Mr. Fennel!,
Old Norval, Mr. Whitlock.
Young Norval,(JirJlj'me) Mr. Moreton.
Lady Randolph, M;s. Whitlock.
Anna, Mrs. Cleveland.
To which will be addtdy
A COMIC OPERA, (bvthe AuthoroFthe
Poor Soldier) in two a£s, ciiled
'The Farmer.
Colonel Dormant, Mr. Green.
Valentine, Mr. Marthal!.
Fairly, Mrs. Warrell.
C'ounf. Flummery, Mr. ElilTctt.
Farmer Blackberry, Mr. Darlcy.
Jemmy Jumps, Mr. Bates."
Rundy, Mis. Francis.
Farmer Stubble,
Mr. Morris.
I.onifa, , Mrs. Warivll.
Betty Blackberry, Mrs. Rowforr. •
Molly May-bufli, Mi fa. Biuadhurft,
Landlady, Mrs. Bates. -
(C> Bonks of the Scrrt to le hid at tit
Theatre.
A Journeyman Bookbinder
WANs ED,
Who can be for his induliry
and lobriety—He may hear of employ by
applying to Mr.HEKKY Kamkerer, No. 2 4,
North Third-street. ■ 1
March i,
21
s
1
It
7
2 .
7
Total 50Phi].«HpMji, March 1, 1 "94-
JUST PUBLISHED,
By MATHF.VV CAREY,
No. 118, Market jh-eet,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF
Modern Geography :
OR, A
Geographical, Historical, ana
Commercial Grammar;
And present Hate of the several
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAINING,
t. Th* figures, motions, and distances of
the planets, iccotdinfT to the Newtonian fyf
teniand the latest observations
2. A general view of the earth, considered
as a planet; with several ufeful geographical
definitions and problems.
3 The grand divisions of the globe into
land and water, continents and islands.
4. The firuation and extent of empires,
kingdoms, states, provinces and colonies.
5 Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
prod unions, nietaK minerals, natural cuii
ofities, Teas, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
an J lakes.
6. The !»ids a id ber.ft? peculiar to each
coi ' rv.
7 Observations on the changes that have
been any where observed upon the face of na
tu c since the uioft ar |y periods of history.
8. Th» history and origin of nations ; their
f.»rm> of government, religion, laws, reve
nue", t ix?s, naval and military strength.
9 The genius, manneis, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
10. Their language, learning,arts,fciences,
manufactures, and commerce.
»I. The chief cities, (Iruftures, ruins, and
artificial curjoiities.
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
distances of principal places from Philadelphia
To which are added.
1. A Geographical Index, with the names
an I places arranged.
2. A Table of the Coins of all nations, ard
their value in dollars and cents.
3. A Chronological Table of remarkable
events, from the creation to the present time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Agronomical Part corre&ed by
l)r, IiITTEN'HOUSE.
To which have been added,
T! e late Discoveries of D>. Herschell,
and other eminent Astronomers
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Co'-rcfted, I;np oved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firft volume contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, beSdes two Altrnriomicssl l'lates,
viz.
1. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world.
3- Europe. 4. Alia. 5- Africa. 6. South-
America. 7. Cook's difcove ies. 8.
tries round the north Pole. 9- Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway. <0. Seven United Pro
vinces. 11 A 11ft ian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. many. 13 Seat oi war
in France. 14.-France divided intodepart
ments. 15- Switzerland. :6. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinia. 17- Spain and Portugal.
18. Tu-key in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
land. 20 Weft-Indies. 2i. Vermont. 22. Ar
nul'ary fpherc. 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
the pr ft, w ; ll be g ; ven the so lowing Maps :
Rnflia in Em ope and Asia.
2 Scotland.
3. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
China.
6 Hindoftan.
7. United States.
g. Brvtifh America.
o. S xt* oC New Hampshire.
jO. State of Maflachu'etts.
11. State of Connecticut.
j2. State of Rhode Island.
j3. State of New-York.
,4- State of New-Jerfej.
15. State of Pennsylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
»7- State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
20; State of North-Carolina.
21. TennelTee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23. State of Georgia.
TERMS.
1. This work will be comprised in two vo
lumes.
2. Snbfcribcrs pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (56 cents for boa»ds.)
3. They may receive rbe succeeding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finiflied, at
the fame price as the fir ft.
4. The fubfeription wi ] be railed on the firft
day of June 1794. to fourteen dollars, ex
clusive of binding.
5. Should a»W copies remain for falc after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of bir ding.
6. The names of the fubferibers will be pub-
Jifhed as patrons of American literature,
arts, and sciences.
It is wholly unnecefTary to expatiate on the
advantage, to American readers, that this edi
tion poffefles, over every imported edition of
any system of Geog aphy extant. The addi
tion of maps of the several (late , procured at
a very great espenfe, and from the best ma
terials that are attainable, fpraks such full
con vision on this fubje(sV, that t would be
difrefpeft to the reader's underftand'ng to
suppose it reqnifite to enter into a detail of
arguments t<* prove its fuper'n rity. In no
similar work have such maps been ever intro
duced.
The emendations and addition? which are
made in this work,are innumerable, arid occur
in every page. The public are referred to
the preface for a flight (ketch ot a lew ol
them.
The publilher take-; the prefcnt oppo» tu
nity of returning his mod sincere thanks to
those refpe&able characters who have favored
him with documents for improving the maps
of several of the ftat<s. He rcquHts a conti
nuance of their kindness ; and hopes that such
public spirited citizens, as are ptoflefled ot (i
---milar documents, will favor him with their
afflftauce in perfecting his undertakii g.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he has been favored, has excited
in his bread the warmest sentiments of grati
tude— sentiments w u h time will not efface.
He pledges himfclf to the citizens of the
United States, to (pare e th r pains nor ex
penfe to render the present ed on o' Guihrie s
Geography improvec), defervivg of their pa
tronage. w *
NORRIS-COURT,
Back of the New L'brary, betwrtH Chefnut
and Walnut-Street"
George Flutter,
Respectfully informs his friends and
the public in general, that lie continues
'"'tying on the bufinrfs ot
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
It Likewise, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
f.jrdoorsor windt>w-lhutters,dcn& in tHe moll
elegant manner, and with dilpatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December go,
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE PY
M.Carey,No. 118 ,Hlgb-Jlreet^
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on C ,mmon Ratings and
Subjects, which are full nf Common
Sense, the lejlfenfe in the world.
TH l."> lntle book is wi men in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, a&
well as to all classes ol people, merchan s, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
wO'k acquired, that it has parted ih>o thiee itn
prefiions in the eastern dates, and many honfe
holders deem it so ufcful as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theii families.——Pr i c e 2s.
February 4. dif
War Department.
January 30tb 1794.
INFORMATION is heieby given load the
military invalids of the United States.,that the
sums to which they are entitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the fourth day ol
September 1793, and which will becomt due
on the sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the GommtUioners of the Loans
within the states refpefttvely, under the ulual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
must be accompanied with egal evidence of
their refpr&ive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whofc peufion t.iey may claim.
By commma of the Prefid nt
of the Unnrd S'a'r*.
Secretary oj IVar.
The printers in the iefpe£fcivc ftaie» are
rcquefted to publtlh the above in their newfpa
pcis for the (pace of two months.
januaty 30
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldfmitbs Iff jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FO!l SALE,
Sin elegant AJfortment of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY & fne CUTLERY,
Which they will difpoie of on the most rea
sonable te ms. Devices in hair, M matures
sett, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, done as usual.
December 24-
AVIS.
LE habitans infortunes de la Colonie Franfaife
de St. Domingue qui dans I'inccndic du
Cap font vrnus chercher uri afile dans Ics Etats
Unis font informes que la Republinue leur ac
cord* un p adage pour France. lis font invi'es
en confequcnce a fe presenter a cet cffet d'ici a
huit jours cher les Consuls & agens de la Rc
publique dans lcs differ nts Poits des Etats Urns.
A Philaoklphie, Ic 10 V«ntos—l'an 2d de
la Repubhque une & indivisible.
(28 Fevrier, 1794. vicuxjlilc)
Le Miniftrc Plenipotentiary de la Republique
Fran^aifc,
The editors of newspapers in the United States are
reqvejlei to insert the above notice in their paper, 8.
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commifiions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivi&ble
(March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
The Minifler Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are requested to republifh the
foregoing notice. d
JuJ} Imported,
From London, Dublin, and Glasgow,
By MATH EW CAREY,
No. 118, Marlet-Jlreet,
A La ge and Valuable
»COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which arc the following :
NE'TV Annual Register for 1792
European Magazine lor the firft fix
mbnths of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortia
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Auoirs of Guy Joli
Meinty,a collection of essays
Varieof Pruflia's works
Calm observer—by Matkintofh
Russell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhome's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Briffon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
TaflVs Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadruped*
BufFon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Cnriofities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's dtfcription of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kilfes of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
' *T >^o.,ole
Vaillaint's travels with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialilin and immatenaUfm
Be-chold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
G ozier's description ot China
Mumhy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on pol ticaljuftice
Gaxetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's (ketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion*, or the history ot Benignus
Mawe's gardener'* di&iona»y
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse di&ionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral Tenements
Stackhoufe's history of the
• Watson's life of Philip lid. &: Hid.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wnrrley's wonders of the little world, called
man
H. KNOX,
Wall's on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark, Ruflia, Poland, See.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
d2m
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mufclcs
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
puincy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
llyan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce oadigeftion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's diifertations
London pra&ice of physic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
mw&rftf
JH. FAUCHET.
By MATHFW CAREY, No. 118,
An Eflay on Slavery
Designed 10 exhibit in a new point of view,
its eftctts on morals, indujiry, and the peace of
ociety. Some fad* and calculations are offered
to prove the labor of Jreemen to be much more
productive than that ot Jlavcs ; that countries are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the tvctCT'ty conclusion, that
slavery is impolitic as well as unjujl.
And now opening for sale,
FOR SALE,
Market-Street,.
Price 25 Cents.
February 15,
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Cojfee-Houfe of this
City :—
RtbPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public m general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippen-Street. be
tween Third and Fourth-iiirccis, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmonf, which
h»s lately been greatly improved, and ;s now
very commodious ; where he has turmlhed him
fell with the bett of LIQUORS, ami will fur
ntfh a TABLE for Parties, with the heft provi.
fions the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
Ihorteft noticc. From his long experience in
this line of business, he flatters himfelf he (hall
be able to give fatisla&ion to all who may plcafa
10 favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29,1794.
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, deducting 15 per Cent. from
the Prizes—this Lottery conftfls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
1 4,539 Pri-z.es and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE Dire&orsof the Society for eflabiifh ng
Ufetul Manufa£tures, having refolvcd 10
erect LOTTERIES tor caifin? One Hundred
Thousand Dollars, agreeably 10 an Ad of
ibe Legislature of the State of New-Jerfcy, h«vc
appointed the following persons to superintend
and direst the drawing of the tame, viz. Nicho-
las Low, Rufus King, Herman Le Roy, Jamei
Watson, Richard Harrifon, Abijah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city of New Y<<»k—
Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthtw M'Con
ncl and Andrew Bayard, ot the city of Phila
delphia— His Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
Klias Boudinot, General El as Dayton, Jaims
Parker, John Bayard, Doftnr Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton, Joshua M. Wallace, J feph
Bl'-omficld, and Elifha Boudinot, of N w-Jer
fey, who offer the following Scheme ol a Lot
tery, and pledge thetnfelves to the public, that
ihry will tak< every aflurance and precaution in
their power 10 have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from tinae to time, as received, infti
he Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for the purpofeof paving Pen, which
(hall be immediately discharged by a check
upon one of the Banks.
SCHEME:
1 Piizeof 20,000 Dollars is 20,009
1
2
5
10
20
ico
300
1000
10,000
5,000
2,000
1 .COO
5 r '°
100
5°
20
10
2oco
3000
8100
14,539 262.000
23,461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
L?-ft drawn number, 2,000
38,000 Tickets at 7 Do'lars each is 266.0C0
The drawing will commerce, under the m
fpe&ion of a Committee of the Superintendents,
as <oon as the Tickets are fold,ot which timely
noticc will be given.
The Superintendants have appointed John N.
Cumming, of Newaik, Jacob R. Hardtnbeig,
of New-Biunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Trenton, as immcdiate Managers theieof, *vho
have given ample security for d'.fcharging the
trust reposed in them.
In order to fecurethe pun&ual payment
of the Prizes, the Superimendantsof the Lottery
have dire&cd that the Managers shall each enter
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four fufficient
fecuriti- s, to perform their ioihu&ions, the sub»
fiance of which :s
I. That whenever either of the Managers
shall receive the futn of Three Hundred Dollars,
he (hall immdiatily place the fame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit of the Governor of the Society, and such
ot the Supepmcnddnis as live in the city where
the monies are placed, to remain there until the
Lottery is drawn, for ihe payment of the Pritca.
11. The Managers to take fufficient security
for any Tickets they may trust, oiherwife to be
rcfponublc for ihem.
111. To keep regular books of TiQkets fold,
Monies receiver) and paid inio the Bank, ab
lla&sof which fliall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January 1, 1794
On application to either of the above gentle
men, information will be given where tickctt
nnv be had.
February 24,
Stock Brokers
No. 16, Wall-street, Niw-Yokk.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE OP
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b g» lea*e to of
f'r his fervic« sio his Inends and others, in the
line oi a Stock Broker. Thnfe who may please
to favor him with their bufincfs, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with theutmoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will he ftriflly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. j.
South FourtK-Street.
io,ooo
10.000
10.000
*0,000
1«\000
10,000
15.000
20,c00
30,000
36,000
81.000
rawtf.
Office,