©iinttr of *.l)r UttiM) Jpfafes
EVENING ADVERTISE
[No. 88 of Vol. V.]
For Sale or Charter,
he ,
John Moore, Majier.
IS a stout good veflel, about two years old,
burthen 232 tons, has only made three voy
ages, and may be sent to sea at a small ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-street wharf,
and the terms made krtown by application to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
March 2i
The American
BURTHEN 700 barrets, with her tackle
and apparel a» the came from sea, She is a
flaunch veflel, not two years old, and maybe
put to sea immediately. For tern® apply
to
GARDINER isf OLDEN,
Arch Street wharf,
Who have for sale,
Pork, Lard, and Hams as usual,
a quantity of Bacon, Bees Wax, and a few
caiks Timothy Seed—alio
Pig and Bar Iron, and Iron cait
ings, in any form executed on the
Diorteft notice.
March
For Bojl on,
DOLPHIN,
William Nichols, Master:
WILL Sail in about eight days; for freight
or paifage apply to the Captain on board at
Hotige's Wharf, betwen Arch and Race-
S RUMFORD Vf ABIJAH DAl'/ES.
3d Mon« , ( ' —
Bojion,
For
CIIRL. THE BRIC
& Harriot,
Jo/tab Bernard, Majler.
WILL fail the 25th inft. has good accommo
dations. For freight or paHage, apply to the
Captain on board ot Mr. Sims's wharf, or to
JOSEPH 4NTHONT & SON.
March tj. d' 2 5
For Amsterdam,
The new fall-failing, copper
bottomed SHIP
M ADRIAN A,
K. Fitzpatrick, Master.
BUILT cf live cak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or pafiage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THGS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Passengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794. dtf
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amllerdam, and now landing
on Walnut-street wharf, viz.
GIN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Duck,
Ditto Oznaburgs f
Holland Sheeting,
yuniper Berries,
Glass Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, va
rious Jtzes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Irony are and flat bars♦
Hair Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
4 quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c.&c.
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
(houldapplication be made within a few days ;
otherwise Jhe will take freight for Amjler-
dam.
March I, 1794.
This Gazette Jhallbe enlarged, as it
receives encouragement—The Subscription
encreafes daily—Advertising Favors are
foliated —These conflitute an ejfential Item
ji d'm imjh 'mg the Debit Jidc of the Account.
IMPORTED
In the Brig George and Harriot, from
Jiavre de Grace,
AND FOR. SALE BY
Louis Ofmont,
A PERFECT
Assortment of Hanging Paper,
high coloured and plain.
White silk Stockings, high drefftd and pUfc
up Englilh tafhion.
The handsomest artificial Flowers and Fea
thers.
Some Looking Glass Plaies to be fold by th«
cafe.
A fe f w hampers of Cbampaigne \rne, fix
years old.
An elegant parcel of
Bearskin MuiTs,
And very beautiful Silk Cloaks, which on
account of the season will be fold low, and at
a long credit.
42 pipes Madeira wine,
and a few cafk< of Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
He twill have for fale y
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
*diot
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn hats, fans and cambricks, claret in
cafe«, a quantity of window glais well sort
ed of all lizes, and a tew pair of remarkable
Looking Glafles framed, all arrived at Nor
folk. now cominz round.
_ ' 0 j.r
March 22.
INFORMATION
Is Requested
By the Edi'or, of a Mr. William Kilton, a
Brick Layer, \rho went from New-England>
and was at Philadelphia Ift Augoil, i 793'
lince which time nothing has been heard o*
him—Great relief will be afforded to his aged
parents and friends, by any intelligence con
cerning him—as they are fearful*that he has
fallen in the late general calamity.
March 22.
WHEKLAS an alijs fubpcena oas ifiued
out of the Supreme Court of this Com
monwealth! at the suit of Eva ns,
upon a petition preferred by tfre (aid Marc a.
r et, praying for a Divorce frorti the bonds o-
Mdtrimony,entered into with Robert Ev ANsf
Thtsjs to gift- notice to the said Robrrt, that
he be and appear at the said Supreme Court, to
be held at the City of Philadelphia on Monday
thefeventh day of April next, at the State-House
in the said City, to answer the matters ailedged
in the said petition.
5 , 1794.
To Robert tvans.
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representatives,
D&ChMBER 2111,1793.
WHEREAS the Commifiioners of public
Accounts, hdve reported, that they can
not proceed to the mvf(ligation ol the Treasury
Accounts, refpe&ing special Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation Therefore,
Resolved, That all holders of special Indents
be dtre&ed, and required, on or before the firft
day of November next, to deliver the special In
dents in their poffeflion 10 one or other of the
Cotnmiilioners of the Treasury, who are to give
receipts for the fame, and to report to theCom
mi(Goners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
thero refpeftively received, and also to the Le
giflaturc, at their meeting in November next,
an d that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, lhail be, and the fame are
heieby barred.
Rcjolved, That public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes m this State,
once every three weeks, un:il the firft day ot
November next. And that the Delegates of this
State in the Congress of the United States, be re
quested to cause this rciolution to be published
in one or morp papers in the cities of Philadel.
phia and Newt York, and that provifton will be
made for the expenccs attending such publica
tion.
Ordcrcdy That the resolution be feat to the
•Seuate for their concurrencc.
By order of the House,
JOHN SAN FORD DART, C.H.R,
In the SENATE,
. d—tf
Rcjolvtd, That this House do concur with the
Houle of Rcprefentativcs in the foregoing refo-
lutions.
Ordered, That the rcfolutions be lent to the
House of Rcprefentativcs.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
cwtNoi .
N D
Tuesday, March 25, 1794.
ALSO,
likewise
Wm. chapman,
Sheriff of Bucks County,
*ia w^w
December *ift, 1793.
scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 3 <$,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, deducing 15 per Cent, from
the Prizes—this Lottery ronfijls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
14,539 Prizes and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanis to a
Prize.
THE Dire&ors of the Society for eftab'iifhing
Ufeful Manufafclures, having resolved to
erect LOTTERIES tor raiting One Hundred
Thousand Dol lars, agreeably to an A6t of
the Legislature of the $k-»te of New-Jeifey, have
appointed the following persons to superintend
and direst the drawing ot the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rufus King, Herman Le Roy, James
Watson, Richard Harrifon, A'bijah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city ot New.York—
Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Matthew M'Con
ncl and Andrew Bayard, of the city of Phila
delphia—His Excellency Richard Howell, Esq.
Elias Boudinot, General Elias Dayton, Jam< s
Pirker, John Bayard, Do&or Lewis Doiiham,
Samu I W, Stockton, Joshua M. Waltace, joseph
Uloomfuld, and Elitha Boudinot, of N w-Jer
fey, who offer the following Scheme of a Lot
tery, and pledge themselves to the public, that
they will take every affur-ince and precaution in
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from time to time, as received, into
the Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for the purpofeof paying Pnz<s, which
shall be immediately discharged by a check
npoa one of the Banks.
SCHEME:
i Prize of 20,000 Dol>ars is 20,000
10,000
5,000
2,000
1
2
' 5
IO
20
» r,r\
1,000
500
100
50
20
12
IO
ICQ
1000
gooo
3000
8100
14.139 Prizes. 26ft,000
"SflifOx Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
Lattdrawn number, 2,000
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
The drawing will commence, under the in
fpeftion of a Committee of the Superintendants,
as soon as the Tickets are fold,ot which timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendants have appointed John N.
Cummmg, of Newark, Jacou R. HardenbeTg,
of New-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample fecuiity for d'feharging the
trust reposed in them.
{£3?" In order to fecurethe punftu 1 payment
of the Prizes, the Superintendantsof the Lottery
have dire&ed that the Managers (hall each enier
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four fuffioent
fecuritics, to perform their inftiu&ioas, the lub-
Itance of which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
(hall receive the sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he shall imnidiately place the fame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, 10 the
ciedit of the Governor of the Society, and such
of the Superin.endants as live in the city wht re
the monies are placed, to remain there until the
Lottery is drawn, for the payment of the Prizes.
11. The Managers to take fufficient lecurity
for any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
rcfpounblc for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold*
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
lba&sof which (Hall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle,
men, information will be given where tickets
may be had.
February 24.
TO BE SOLD,
Agreeably to the last Will of DEBORAH
MORRIS, deceased,
The House N°. 245,
AND
Lot of Ground
On which it stands, wherein James Biddle
now lives, on the north fide of Market-
ft reel, near Sixth-street.
THE House being 18 feet 10 inches in
Front on Market-street, and the Lot
Ix 7 feet deep. The whole will be fold fttb*
jeci to a ground rent of twelve pounds per
annum, payable to the contributors to the
Pennsylvania Hospital, and their successors
forever. For terms apply to
SamuelCoatbs,
Jonathan Jonf«,
Anthost MOKKIS>
Samuel POWELL G*IFJ>ITHJ,
Surviving Bzccutors of
Dcbonh Morru, dec'd.
•top >w
March i, 1J94-
[Whole No.
For tht Gazette of tht UmitedStatEi.
MR. FES»no,
I confefs I have been a good deal sur
prised to find in ibolt every circle where
the couverfatipn happened to turn upon
politics, that the people were generally
ignorant of our having exceeded our trea
ty with the French, in permitting the iale
of prizes in our ports —and they have
started with fui prize at the aflertiorf.
this is a proof how necessary it is that
government fhonld ufe«very means to en
lighten the citizens at such an important
teafon, and (hews the absolute necessity of
adopting fame plan of education for the
lower classes of the people, who are al
ways liable to be milled by designing
knaves. Let our public meetings (inch
as the state-house yard on Fuefaay last*)
and the gallery in thfe play-house, speak
more fully the claims of the people upou
this head, and even the gallery in congrefi
on a recent oceafion. The very existence
of a Republic depends upon the vii tue of
the people. Who would hot rejoice to
fee Congress occupied (if the constitution
has delegated to them the power) upon so
grand a work ? And if it h:;s not, f.ich
power might probably be obtained upon
a representation to the different States
from that body, who must have seen
eiough in this place, during their resi
dence this fellion, to convince them of the
10,000
io,oco
10,000
10,000
neceflity of it. 'At a future opportunity
I promise to give you the outlines of a
plan which I have long contemplated,
if you will give it a corner in your paper ;
and I hope to live to fee Gongrefe enga
ged in prosecuting so neceiTary a mes*
iure.
10,000
10,000
J 5,000
20,000
•go, 000
36,000
Bi,ooo
To return to the fubjeft—The lan
guage of a great part of our citizens up
on the late proceedings of the Briufh,
runs thus, " They have fitft interrupted
our trade to France in the carriage of
such articles as were not decreed contra
band, contrary to the pra&ice of all for
mer wars—and now they have underta
ken to fay, that we (hall not trade at all
with the French Colonies, and have pirat
ically seized our veffcls without giving us
the lead notice of their intentions, <iiid
contrary to all former usage."
It is true, they have done all this, but
it is not equally true that they are wi.hout
a prccident for adopting new things. We
have set them the example ; for accord
ing to our own confeffion, we have (in
permitting the French to !ell their prizes)
done what is " unfounded in the practice
of France, or in that of any other nati
on" that is, we have done what never any
nation did before. The British have co
pied after us, and we are now at ifTue by
the forencfs we feel, when we fisd the
lame thing retaliated upon onrfelver; we
may make some calculations, what may
be the feelings of the British in their si
tuation. To be used ill is disagreeable,
but to have no notice of tb< approach of
ill usage is very grating to our feelings —
the scripture adage comes to our aid here,
•« Firlt pluck out the Beam that is in
i thine own eye, and then (halt thou fee
tu&Ftf.
* I expected an invitation would have
been given by those gentlemen who exalt
ed themselves above their fellows, on
Tuesday evening, to any one who
might chufe it, to come forward and ob
jett to any of the resolutions, or throw
further light upon the business if they
thought proper; but they chose to keep
it all to themselves : no such offer or invi
tation was given—•this to be sure is for
the honor of free difcuflion, and worthy
of the men who could produce important
resolutions & call upon the multitude to a
dopt them at the fame inftant,indeed so rea
dy were they to adopt any thing, that I am
convinced if any one had been hardy e-t
nough to present himfelf to objeii to th*
proceedings, he would have been hooted
and called an Aristocrat, English Agent,
3cc. &c. if he had ifcaped without a bro
i ken head.
R.ileirly the Mote that is in thy brothers
eye." We search the works of authors,
(Vattel, Blackttone, Puffendorf,) who
have laid down the law of nations,
»r.d make Urge quotations from therti,
profefling to govern our conduct f in all
cases by them, where treaty does not in
terfere, and we are the firft to givt to the
world an example of a violation of aH
national law, in one of it: not effcntiol
articles, " ll\ have (to life the Secreta
ry's own words) done •what it unjtipulated
in cur atvn treaties, an J unfounded in the
praSiice oj France, »r in that of any other
tirticn," and this we call n-.-ither "aiding
nor a (lilting any."
f Far be it from me to detract from
t!ic merit of Mr. JeSTerfon's they
would do honor to any man in any age or
c luntry—bat these contradictions are ad
ditional evidence how liable to err, the
moil knowing of us are.
The was omitted yellerday for
want of room.
For tie Caaettee of the United States.
M:. Fexno,
In this alarming crisis when war is so
much talked of that it is almost become
familiar to our ears, it is the duty of eve
fy good citizen to weigh well the causes of
the present uneafincfg in the public mind,
and the confequcnccs of an improper direc
tion being given to it. The injuries and
a.rgreftions of the Britifli government,
which have excited the mod lively sensa
tions among us are, ill. Tile detention of
the We Hern Polls—2d. The truce between
Putugal and Algiers—3d. The seizure of
veflels carrying provilions to the ports of
Fra:h:e—4th. The piratical conduct of
Britifli cruizers in the Well Indies—jth.
The inllnidlions of 6th Nov. and the con
fcquent seizure and condemnation of our
velfels in the Welt-Indies.
1 ft. The detentionof the Pollr. This
io deemed by us a violation of the treaty
of peace; Great Britain attempts a jufti
fication. by al'edging that the United
S'ates have also violated it by laws of the
* ates, and decisions as the state courts,
rctt raining the recovery of Britilh debts ;
it is answered on the jrart of the United
States, that even admitting this to have
been the cafe, yet the detention of the
polls was an' iafra£lion of the treaty, an
tecedent to any luch laws or decisions. It
mud in candor be admitted, that the con
duct of some of the dates, with refpeft to
debts, may be viewed in some measure as
1 departure from the rigid conftruAion of
the treaty ; &t the fame time, candor ought
to make allowances for the situation of
this country, ami to fugged many causes
of jullification. The date laws were in
general favorable to the mass of Britilh
creditors, for had the courts been thrown
open immediately after the peace, not a
bove one in a hundred of those creditors
would have' been paid, and the debtors
would all have.been ruined : no difcrirai
nation was made in any state against Bri
tifli creditors, but they were always placed
on the fame footing as American credit
ors. Still however, there may exist some
doubt on the subject, and it may not be so
clear a cafe as ta judify a war. It is true
the courts are all open at present to the
recovery ofdebts, but if there has been an
infra&ion of the treaty on our part at any
time lince the peace, it may furnifli a pre
text ou the other part for not immediately
fulfilling it. The fur trade is not an ob
jeS in itfelf of fufficient magnitude to in
demnify Us for a war ; the bravery of our
frontier people and our western anpy,
which has lately been fuccefsful, will keep
the Indians quiet, notwithdanding the
Britifli may continue for a few years to
hold those pods: it is not in the nature of
things that they ftiould be able to hold
them much longer : The extension of our
settlements, in their vicinity, the bold and
enterp riling disposition of the fcttlers, and
the frequent desertions of the troops which
garrison the pods, will soon induce the
Britifli government to abandon them.
2dly. The truce between Portugal and
Algiers—ln moments of paflion when our
sympathy is justly excited, for the dreadful
fufferings of our unhappy countrymen, it
is natural for us to execrate and fwearven.
geance against those who have in any ref
pe£l been accefiary to their misfortunes.
But we Ihould view the fubjcdl, as between
tHc United States and Great Britain. To
f<y that Great Britain has let loose the Al
gerine pirates upon us, is a figure of speech
which is incorrect. Had Britain felt a
very friendly disposition towards this coun
try, it is probable she would not have mads
that truce for Portugal without stipulating
a fecurity-fer uj; but are there any ties
vfhich connect Us With Britain ? Are
there any existing causes of obligation on
her pan ? Has our conduct been fueh for
some years past, as to authorise us to ex
pett on the part of Britain, partiality, pre
ference and favor ? Let us examine our
public prints ; the inceflaut torrents of a
buse again It Britain, the accounts of toasts,
processions, and rejoicings for the defeat
of her armies, will immediately fatisfy us
that we had'no to expect that Great
Britain fhofild digiefs from the It lift line
of her owh polity to accommodate herfelf
to our's : our partiality sot France, how
ever natural it may be, has led to ftich o
pen and. avowed an imolity against. the Bri
ti(h nation, that it would have been folly
to have expeftedin return from Great Bri
tain, proofs of kindness and friend/hip.
Our government indeed, with one ex
ception, has been neutral: Mr. Jefferfon
in his correfpondance with Mr. Genet,
makes a merit of deviating from our neu
trality in allowing the sale of prizes not
warranted by treaty; and boalts of our
exertions to pay our debt to France.
These deviations ihight excite umbrage
in the other belligerent powers ; but up
on the whole, the federal government,
considering the biafs of the people, has
been highly meritorious, and their conduct
Ihould have a due effect on the Britilh
cabinet. A law has palled one branch of
the federal legitlatuie, to prevent the sale
of prizes ; if it pafi'es the other, then the
decided neutrality of the government will
be an offset againd the decided partiality
of a considerable part of the people.
How then does this question (land as
between the United States and Great Bri
tain ; the latter makes a truce in behalf of
an old friend and close ally with a formi
dable adverfarv, without llipulating a se
curity or a participation in that truce for
a nation, the inhabitants of which
manifelled the moil decided partiality for
her most bitter enemies, and the govern
ment of which has not required luch a:
security or even her mediation. Where
then is the cause of hostility!
3. "The seizure of veflela laden with
provisions forFraiVjev This measure was
adopted in pursuance of a ilipulatiori en
tered into between Great Britain, RilfEa,
Spain, &c. All those powers are anfwer--
able for it, St war ttgamil one on that score,
would be war againd all. The Britifiv
Minider attempts a juftification of it from
-the authority of writers 011 the. law of
nations, particularly 2 Vattel, 72, 73, and
urges, that by the dodlnne, there laid
down, they have not gone so far as they
would have been juftified in proceeding,
considering. the profpeft they have of re
ducing their enemy by such means, the
iaftruttions not extending to all kind of
provifious, rice being excepted, nor to
confifcations ;> that the exilling circum
flances jullify them in considering grain
as among contraband articles, and there
fore coming within the President's pro
clamation, that the Freneh government
(and not individuals) are the only impor
ters of grain into that country, that the
measure was so guarded by directing the
property to be paid for, together with the
freight, that the owners could fuffer no
loss, a liberal price being always allowed
in the cases.
Whether this explanation be or be not
confident with the law of nations, it is
not perhaps necelfary to explore ; these
remarks, however occur:
I ft. That it is not probable any ast of
our government would produce a departure
from a system eftabliftied by all the com
bined powers as one deemed by them indif
pcnfable for their own fafety.
zd. That it is a« little probable, any
further inconvenience will result to us,
from this system, as the conduct of the
French government, by payments in afiig
nats, embargoes, and other acts of vio
lence, will be a fufficient restraint on our
merchants, from fending provisions to
Francc in American bottoms: It is more
probable, that the French government, a
ware of this, will continue to pursue the
wife policy they have adopted of fending
their specie, (hips and convoys to our ports
for grain.
3d. The piratical conduct of the com
manders of British cruizers in the Weft-
Indies. A complaint having been made
on this head to the British Government,
Lord Grenville requested our Minister Mr.
Pinckney, to feled some instances where
the evidence was clear, in order to rnfti
tute criminal prosecutions against the of
fenders and promised the failed support of
the law-officers of th« crown. Mr. P.
informs our executive, that he was endea
vouring to fix upon some strong cases where
the evidence might be fufficient to ensure
conviction: He adds in. the fame letter
that he believes it to be the desire both of
the Briciih government and the people in
general, to be upon good terms with us;
this being the cafe, no jufl caufc of war
can arifc until it be known, that the pro
mise has not been observed.
4th. The inftru6tion« of the 6th of
November, signed H. Dundas, and the
consequent Tenures.
The true import of these inftru&ions must
be firft confijiered, independent of the pro
ceedings in the Welt-Indies. The instruc
tions direct that our veflels under certain cir
cumstances (hall be carried into the Britilh
Islands "for certain adjudication" What
is the meaning of the words " legal adjudi
cation ?" Civilians lay they imply nothing
more than an adjudication by law whether a
veflel or cargo is or is not liable to condem
nation ; lawyers of eminence in this city have
given the lame opinion, the law officer of
the crown in Jamaica, gives the fame opini
on ; he fays that to guard against the irregu
lar conduct of commanders of cruizers, they
are dire£ed to carry neutral veflels fulpe&ed
of having enemy's property or contraband
goods on board into port for trial, and that
the inftru&ions mean nothing more; Lord
Grenville, who probably drew up the instruc
tions, in a note to Mr. Pinckney, speaking of
some American veflels in London, which
had been libelled in the Admiralty Court,
fays they were in a ccurfe of legal adjudica
tion, meaning only that they were under trial.
So far then it is clear that the inflruftions, in
themselves, do not breathe hostility.
As to the proceedings in the vice-admiral
ty courts in the Weft-Indies, information
varies ; by some accounts it is said, that there
have been no condemnations, except in Mont
ferrat, by others we are informed, that they
have taken place in some other Islands.
The Judges of these Courts may have
proceeded to condemnation from ignorance
or corruption ; it is well known that the
persons lent out # to the British colonies as
Judges, are not generally the heft lawyers or
the best men ; they are frequently diflipated
extravagant, debauched, and ignorant per
sons of influential connexions, who have in
iereft enough to get these appointments. This
was generally the cafe with us while colonies,
and was one of the curses we got rid of by
our independence; it is among the curses
which the remaining colonies groan under.
No on'* will deny that the conduct of some
•of these Judge-lings has been infamous and
abominable, and that the British government
ought upon information of their proceedings,
"to dismiss and punish them. But is their con
du& a cause cjf war ? We are precluded from
faying that it is. When the British govern
ment complained that some of our inferior
Courts had established decrees which were an
infraction o£ the treaty of peace, N\liat was
the answer of our Executive ? " No nation,
fays Mr. JefferSon, in his letter to Mr. Ham
mond, page 56, answer. for perfect exac
titude of proceedings in all their inferior
Courts : It fuffices to provide a Jupreme ju
dicature, where all error and partiality will
be ultimately corre&ed." We cannot then
complain of a refufal to do justice on the
part of the British Cabinet, until an appeal
has been made from the Vice-Admiralty
Courts in the Weft-Indies, which are inferior
Courts, to the Admiralty Courts in England.
This is certainly a grievance of no inconsi
derable magnitude to the parties, and many
of them will probably be induced by the
trouble and expence to abandon their vessels
to the captors. But, in a cafe like the pre
sent, our government should interpose its aid
and affifl the fufferers. The Executive would
be fully authorized, under such circumstan
ces, to advance money to the Captains or
owners of the condemned vessels for the pur
pose of prosecuting appeals : If the Supreme
Court of Admiralty, as Mr. J. fays, corrects
the error of partiality of the inferior Courts
and awards restitution and damages, we are
bound by our own do<Strines, to be content :
If the iniquitous sentences be confirmed, and
the Cabinet of St. James's, on a demand,
refufe full compensation for the vessels and
cargoes which have been unjustly seized, then
hostility and retaliation against that nation
will be juftifiable, and all parties will be uni
ted in the most vigorous efforts to obtain re
dress for our violated rights.
These are the measures which ought- im
mediately to be pursued, and while the ifiue
of them remains uncertain, the country
ought to be put in a condition to defend it
felf again!! invalion, and to afiert its dignity.
A Moderate Man.
CONGRESS.
House of Representatives.
Wednesday, January 29.
The SPEECH of Mr. Smith, of South'
Carolina, in reply to Mr. on
the fubjcd of the Commercial Regulations.
[continued]
The gentleman had been much diipleaf
ed at his having commented on the omifli
on of the Secretary of State to mention
that while the ttbaen of the United State*
paid iii Great Britain a duty of i/j» ' all
other foreign tobacco paid $/5. As an
apology for that omission, (which Mr.
Smith could not but deem material, espe
cially as the Secretary laid great ftrefa on
other duties,) the gentlemau had ailedg«d
that the circumltance was perfc&ly imma
terial, inafmnch as the duty of l/j was
itfelf so high as to diminish the conlump
tion, and inafmueh as there was no otlier
country which could be our competitor in
that article. To this he answered, firlt,.
that tobacco being an artiele not of necef-
Cty but of caprice, and being consumed
in Wiall quantity by each individual a
high duty, could not be felt ; secondly,
that tobacco was obtainable from other
countries ; it appeared from documents of
authority, that in the years 1744, 5, 6,
the imports of tobacco into Great Bri
tain had been annually kbont 62,000
hogsheads, of wheh only 44,000 were
• from the American colonies', the refiduc,
18,000 being from other countries. From
the fame documents it further appeared
that in 1774 Great Britain imported
from the American colonies 96,000 hogs
lieads which was nearly the whole of the
tobacco (lie imported that year: The in
ference resulting from this circumstance
was, that the difference of duty in favor of
American tobacco had then destroyed a
competition which did before exiji. He
admitted that this discrimination of duties
in our favor was a reliA of her colony sy
stem, but it's object was to encourage the
growth of tobacco in this country, by
giving to it a monopoly of the Britilh
market, and it appeared that this object
was obtained ; and it was to be inferred,
that a continuance of Ae effect was pro
cured by a continuance of the system. If
we have not much competition now, it
does not follow that it might not arise.
What was there to hinder it's being raised
on equally good terms in any quantity in
any of the southern ports of this conti
nent in poflcflion of the different powers
of Europe, Spain, Portugal, Holland ?
Portugal, it had been said, could not
be our competitor, tor (lie received our
tobacco ; the report fays that it is prohi
bited ; he tlridcrftood some small quantity
had been smuggled to that country ; it
was certain that only 62 hoglheads had
been exported thither the year before last,
and only 5 the lalt year. In comparing
the footing on which our conirhercc stood
with Fiance and Great Britain, the geni
tlemao had dwelt on particular circtimftan
ces; that was not a fair mode of compa
rison, the queftton ought to be an aggre
gate one ; are we as well upon the tiihoh
with this or that country! If we are; we
ought not to deal out a W9rfe measure to
one tlian to another. The indireS com
merce which Great Britain denies us, and
which France till lately granted us, is not
at present very material to ui, at we could
not multiply our navigation enough to de
rive great benefit from it, without injury;
to divert our capital from more profitable
branches to the mere sarrying trade would
be unwise ; 'tis defireable only to a coun
try, like Holland, of little production
and great capital j but even France now
excludes us from the indirect commerce
with her by her late navigation ast : The
systems of the two countries, then, in ref
peft to the navigation in Europe, (land
precisely on the fame footing ; and in ref
pedl to their Weft-Indies, the war has
let our veflels into the British as well a*
the Frencn Islands, and there can be little
doubt that our right to fend our vessels to
the French I Hands will terminate with the
war.
(Speech to he continued.)
Foreign Intelligence.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
December 27,
Carnot, in the name of the committee
0 f Public fafety, read the following letter,
Salicerti, Richard, Ferron, Robefpiere and
Ban-as, to their colleagues, composing
the committee of Public Safety.
Head-Quarters, Toulon, Dec. 20.
Second year of the Republic,
One and indivisible.
" The army of the Republic, dear col
leagues, entered T*ulon yesterday, at 7 in
the morning, after 5 days and 5 nightt"
fighting and fatigue ; it burnt with impa
tience to give the a (Vault; 4,000 (believer*
ready ; but the cowardice of ths enemy,
who had evacuated the place after hiving
spiked all their cannon on the ramjferts,
rendered the scaling ufclefi. •
•' When the enemy- knew the ciptureof the Eaglifh redoubt and, the whole pro
■pntory, and law all the heights of Pliaron
occupied by the division o: General La-
?>ype, terror seized them. They entered
julon in treachery-, they kept themfelve3
"i then; like cowards, and quitted it like vil
lains. They blew up the Them.tkocles,
which, served as a prison for the patriots ;
happily the latter, except fix, found means
to escape during the fire. They burnt
ni;ie of our Ihips, and carried away three;
fifteen are referred to the republic, among
which mull be remarked the l'uberb Sans-
culottes, of 130 guns Some boats ap
proached as far as the harbor wliillt we were
in Toulon ; but two field pices placeaon
the quay, dispersed them. Four frigatgs
were already burning, wlien tl j g^|tljr
fla-ves, who are the most honell people in
Toulon, cut their cables and extinguished
the fire. The rope yard and the wood
are not damaged. Fire threaten
ing to consume the general magazine we
commanded 500 workmen to cut off the
communication. There are some frigates
'"ft/o thai the Republic dill has a refpeft
•v vy fore * here. We found provi
.l cvety kind, of which a statement
■it', 1 !i we will fend to you.
». a vengeance is displaying
.mg goes on brilkly. All
: aieers are already terminated.
public (hall be reveled in a
w'>rtUy of it! The manes of the
» Ml be'appealed.
'Jaj of our LuIU-iies hasfunkan En-
E ! "-1 frigitc,
" Sahcitii, Freran, Rjcard, Robfyitrre,
Barras. "
December 29.
Barrere appeared at the tribune. Citi
zens, said he, you have heard with rap
ture the successes at Toulon, you will
learn with courage the check we have re
ceived at Perpignan. If the Mediterra
nean is free, and the Eaittrn Pyrenees are
still in (lavery, it is in the midil of vicissi
tudes that Republican minds receive a
double temper and life with renovated vi-
gour.
The courage of a chofcn body of our
troops had retaken Villelongue, but new
treachery has surrendered places in the de
partment of the Eastern Pyrenees. Per
pignan is threatened. The treacherous
commander Datfaux surrendered the fort
St; Elme, after having fired on our troops
with cafe (hot. Thus the most ignorant
of all the fuldiers of Europe, the moll
luperilitious people in the world, have a-
Jone obtained any success on the foil of li
berty ; but orders are already given, eve
ry thing is at this moment changed, re
prcfentatives, generals, etat-major, troops,
all is regenerated : The iron of France
will overcome the gold of Mexico ; and
the (laves of Madrid will soon (brink from
the presence of the conquerors of Toulon.
If the Vendee i« deitroyed, as I have
confirmed to you by the report of the Re
presentatives of the people and generals.
If the interior parts ot the Republic are
fhortlv to be entirely eleanfed from the
filth of Royalifm and purged from thecoun
ter-revolntionary leaven, wha thavc we to
fear ? A formidable army is about to ap
pear at the foot of the Eastern Pyrenees.
We hourly expe£t happy tidings from the
Rhine. The North will feel our strength
in its turn, and the eoafts will be preserved.
Barrere then communicated the letters
of the General division d'Aout, of Boif
fet, and of the representatives of the peo
ple at eastern Pyrenees. They inform
that Bagnols, port Vendre, Callioure are
in the hands of the Spaniards. The forts
have been surrendered: The army is en
tirely routed : It is fulpe&ed that some
persons are highly criminal. It is not
known what has become of Fabre,
and Gallon is blocked up in Perpignan.
Thegreateft expedition has been used in
putting Aignes-mortes, Cette and Agde
in a Hate of defence.
BRUSSELS, Dec. 31.
Exttaft of an authentic letter.
It is utterly in vain for the Emperor to
trust to the resources of his own dominions,
for they are exhausted, and unless he is coun
tenanced in making a loan in England, his
efforts mud be feeble. The King of Prussia
does not disguise his meaning. He eith r is,
or effedls to be poor, and he fays explicitly
that he must be subsidized : and we are given
to understand that the Britiih Ministers are
resolved to go on, and that a treaty for fnbfi
dizing Pruflia is actually in negociation.
Ot the events which have palled in France
we have the molt affli&ing accounts. No
thing' can refill the impetuosity of the Re
publicans. Every where they have been fuc
cefcful. We cannot give you a perfedt idea
of the gloom that has ovcrlpread this place
| by the news from Toulon, and no less dis
astrous accounts from the Rhine. No less
than 30,000 men of the combined armies of
Europe have fallen within the last fortnight.
Not less than 50,000 fouls in all have within
the last fourteen days of this diftafterous year
perished, and so far has this butcher)' been
from promoting the objetf s of the war, that
it has aknoft to a certainty secured the tri
umph of Republican!fin in France. We are
difgraceful'.y expelled from the Mediterrane
an frontier ; and letters from the Rhine fay,
that .after the fatal 24th, Wurmfer had rc
folved, by a Council of War to try the iflhe
of only one more attack, to retrograde with
all the force, and to resume the strong por
tion at Weiflembourg, here to make his last
delperate stand. On the 24th, according to
daily custom, he was attacked by 30,000
Frenchmen, though he had been reinforced
by the troops of the Palatinate and by the
Prince de Conde, and fought the whole day
with his usual courage and obstinacy, his line
was broken. His left wing in part composed
by the troops of the Palatinate, was by the
enemy, charged, and routed towards the
evening; and nothing but the night saved
them from total ruin. Their loss was con
siderable. The Emigrants alio left 500 on
the field—and the whole army is so extenu
ated, and reduced by those daily attacks, so
harraifing as well as so murderous, that we
have loft all hopes of the capture of Landau,
or of being able to continue in France.
PHILADELPHIA,
MARCH 25.
The following re&liition in fnbftance parted
the House of Representatives of the United
States this day: By a very gre.it majority —
viz.
Resolved, by the Senate and I louse of Re
presentatives, (the Senate agreeing thereto,)
that all trade be prohibited l'rom the Unked
States, to any foreign port or p'acej for a
terra net exceedii g .nifty days j and that tiie
President of the United States be authorized
and empowered, to give the necessary direc
tions to the Officers of thejlevcnne, to car
ry this resolution into effeiS.
A meflage was received by the House of
Representatives from the Prelident of the
United States, communicating two letters
from Mr. Skipwith, consul of the United
States at St. Euitatia, exhibiting a detail of
the depredations and fpoliatior.s of the Bri
tifli cruisers on the commerce auJ navigation
of the United States—lt appears from these
letters, that nearly 130 American velt'els have
been condemned in the Britilh Illanas, The
meflage and letters, on motion of Mr. Sedg
wick,, were referred to a (elect committee, to
conlider and report thereon, particularly
with refpedl to providing the means for dif
cha'rging the expences incurred by Mr. Skip
with, in supporting a large number of Ame
rican captains and seamen who have loft their
vefiels, and furnifliing them with the means
of returning to their own country.
ABSTRACT.
At a meeting 6f the Citizens of the city and
county of Philadelphia, held in the State
House Yard, the 2zd mil
A reportwas received from the committee
appointed at a former meeting to form a
plan to carry into execution a resolution for
eitablilhing a fund to relieve and redeem our
unfortunate fellow-citizens who, failing in
vefi'els belonging to this port have been cap
tured and euflavedby the Algerioe, or any
other piratical state.
This report proposes that a committee of
five persons be appointed in each ward to so
licit donations for this benevoleut purpole—
that a board of trustees, consisting of 13
perl'ons and a treasurer, be appointed to ma
nage the buftnel's —and that the board endea
vor to procure the eftablifhmcnt of a fmiilar
fund in each of the United States:
The report was unammoufly adopted, and
George Latimer, John Barclay, John Su an
wir.k, Jacob Morgan, Thomas Mifflin, Geo.
Meade, Thus. M'Kean, lfrael lfrael, Alex.
Boyd, Caleb Lownes, John Dunlap, Robt.
M'Kean, and Stephen Girard were appoint
ed as the board of trustees, and were em
powered to feledl their committees for collec
tion in the several wards.
The following letter from Messrs. Wignell
and Reinagle by order was read —
To the gentlemen of the committee appoint
ed to report a plan for the relief ot Ame
rican citizens, captured by the Algerinu.
Gentlemen,
We perceive by an advertisement in to
day's newspaper, that the citizens of Phila
delphia contemplate the cftablifhment "of a
fund to relieve and redeem our brethren who
languilh in captivity at Algiers. From mo
tives of fraternal humanity towards those un
fortunate citizens, and with a grateful fofici
tude to manifeit our relpeit for a communi
ty to whose liberality and patronage we are
so highly indebted, we beg that on behalf of
the managers and company of the New-
Theatre, you will be pleased to present to
the general meeting, summoned for this ev
ening, the offer qf contributing to the pro
posed fundtbe profits of one night's enter
taiuin nt at the Theatre.
We are with refpeft,
Gentlemen,
\ our most ob'dt. fervanta,
WIGNELL & REfNACLE,
On motion,
Rtfrlved, That the benevolent contribu
tion meditated by MelTrs. Wignell and Rein
agle's letter, as above be accepted, that their
beneficent communication with the proceed
ings of this meeting be publiftied, and that
the thanks of this meeting bf prcfented tc
.Mcflrt. Rcinagle, on behalf of the managers
and company of the New Theatre, for their
truly charitable interposition*
Jacob Morgan, Chairman.
Robert M'Kean, Secretary,
March 22.
*** The trustees above named are re
queit.-d to meet this evening at 5 o'clock P.
M. at the City Hall.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, March 22,
AUTHENTIC.
Bourdeaux, December 26, 1794.
Jofcph Fcnwick, Elq.
S I R,
WE, the subscribers, exhausted by dai
ly application! on the iuhjedt of our fitna
tions, and finding not only otn future
pvofpefts defeated, but extreme misery
ftaiing us in the fkce—we do now, All of
us, call upon you as our organ to speak
through, to demand of the Representa
tives of the people, whether we are to be
couiidcrcd as friends or enemies: if the
former, you are then to claim the fulfil
ment of the treaties existing between the
two Republics—if the latter, you will
thou demand a futficient number of ships
to carry us and our people home, and we
will without delay, abandon our veflels and
p opeities, and seek that jultice from our
own government, which is denied u> here.
We also obforvt(witli aikunilhment, that
partialities are going forward, and that
particular interests are gratified without a
ny reason forfo doing, that will bear day
light. Sir, it is your duty, asCohfulof
the United States, and it is becoming you
as a man, to look into these transactions,
and if the representatives have been de
ceived, to set them right; for it is obvious
to all of us, that since their arrival, the
eld regime has been overthrown, which
dealt out jobbj and favors to particular in.
dividuals at the expence of the many; and
as Americans, we are all equal, and there
ought to be no preferei ce.
We make not these observations from
jealousy against our fellow-citizens who
have got away and are now going; but
for the lake of truth and juflice, which it
is your duty to do us, and your duty to
the repiVentatives to make known. And
we further add, Sir, that your personal
character will be implicated, if you do not
fulfil our wiflieson this head.
[Signed}>y Thirtj-Seven.~\
Bourdeaux, Dcc. 27, I 793.
To all the Captains, and other Americans
at Bourdeaux
Gentlemen,
I have received your letter of this inft.
and note your remonstrances. I lincerely
with I had the means of relieving your
present situation as Consul of the United
States. I have exhausted every means of
conciliatory negotiation with the supreme
executive authority now in this depart
■ment, and I have regularly communicated
our situation in my correspondence to our
Miniiler Plenipotentiary at Paris, "without
receiving any positive assurances of a spee
dy redress of our grievances. lam ftiU
prepared \o adopt and execute with that
celerity our critical situation demands, any
other measures confident with-my situa
tion, that may be thought for the public
good. If the measures we have hereto
fore pursued, have not been produ&ive
of that jullice we, as friends to the French
nation, ire entitled to, I have done my
duty, and not neglected the important in
terelt my country has placed under my
care, which my correfpondeiice will clear
ly manifeft j and as to you, gentlemen, I
am equally allured, that your general
conduct has been such, as to leave <10
ground or even colour of reproach, for the
long and rigorous detention we have ex
perienced here.
Wehave, in myopinion, ftillontmortduty
to do, which is to join our efforts in other
friendly measures to obtain redress as long
as we have the means of keeping possessi
on of our vefTels; then in the cause of fai
lure, we lhal! be jullified towards ourselves,
our famil:» i, and "our country; for the a
bvidon-'ng our vefTels, and seeking my o.
t'ie# mode of living, and returning ho Ac,
that our circumttances and prudence may
dictate. I therefore propose to vou,
that we aflemhle three times a week, (fay
every Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday
evening) to concert mcafures of redrefj,
and that as ourcafe is important and prcf
fing, we begin tlii* evening, at 5 o'clock,
at the Hotel of the Uuiud States, for
that purpose.
I am refpedlfully,
Gentlemen,
Your obedient tenant,
(Signed)
JOSEPH FENWICX.
SHIP NEWS.
The following is a lift of American VeKU
condemned on the 24th «//. at St. Kittz
by Captal. Sullivan of the Brig Kh:', nf
Ph:ladtlprna y viz :
. ... _ [Valued at Do.hrt.
ship Sidney, Porter, Baltimore, (ooco
Snow Ntj tune, Town, Bolton, i coo
WindJor . Connecticut, 6100
bally, Birchmore, Salem, jocoo
Diana, Gardner, New-York, a Soo
Bethiah, Lanthorp, Boston,' 1? 1: .1
Stork, Holland, Newburyport, 1763,
William Troado, do. a 7 700
Martha & Mary, Stanbury, Baltimore, »
Kitty, Suihvan, Philadelphia, 17
Elfeguido, Glover, Norwich, 154x8
Schooners Lucy, Grant, Bo(t V n, 40cc
Atlantic, Marfliall, do. Bqco
Sally, Crowninfliield, Salem, 9600
Sally, Gray, do. *
Nelly, Wailis, Alexandria, gooo
Dolphin, Crampton, Rhode-Island, 8000
Commerce, Fairfield, licit on, lO o 4J
Alethia, Spraig, Providence, 6S-0
Ceres, Robinson, New-York, 10500
Betsey, Freeman, Portland, 4000
Swallow, Fitch, Norwich, 4 g oo
Dove, Iliac Baltimore, Jc , ooo
Sloops Dove, Harmftead Weathers
field,
Union, Wormer, Hertford,
fanny, Hoit, New-Haven,
Sal'.y, Telleton, New-York,
Sally, Col'-y, SaljJbury,
Condemned
Libelled
T ° taJ 3i 9 0 7 »
(O* Letters for the Brig Nancy, bound
to Falmouth (England) will be received
at the Polt-Oifice till 7 o'Clock to-morrow
morniug.
O* The memorial of the Merchants of
Charleston, South-Carolina, was prcfent
ed to the House of Representatives yester
day by Mr. Pickens—through mifinform
ation, Mr. Smith was inserted.
*»* Tntbe •! Curd" <f Mr. S. publijhed
yefterda: the dijburfements on the "John"
Jhould have been stated at 900/.fler. inft.ad
of 9000/— which is a typographical error.
SALES.
At 12 o'clock,
TO-MORROW,
Oa Walnut fircet wharf, will be fold on ac
count of the Underwriters,
The cables, fails, Handing and
running rigging, &c.
Saved from the wreck of the brig Betsey,
Captain Chafe, from the island of Jamaica,
101 l on the ill and of Cuba.
EDWARD FOX. Au3ioneer y
March 25.
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
March 26,
Will be performed,
_ A TRAGEDY, called
The Fair Penitent.
End of the Tragedy, a chararteriftic
Pantomimical DANCE, called
The Sailor s Landlady
OR,
Jack in. Distress.
Jack) Mr. Francis
NedHaulyard fwitbannu foygj Mr.Dar
jutt.
Meflrs. Wanell, Bliffet,
Warrell. jun.Lee,Baf_n
and De Moulin.
Mrs. Cleveland, Mrs.
Bates, Mifi. Rawiba, St
Miii. Wiilor. j . '
Landlady, Mr. Rowfoa
Orange Girl, Mrs. De M»rquc*
To conclude with a double HORNPIPE
6y Mr. Francis and Mrs. 6e Marque.
To which will be added,
A FARCE, called
Sailors,
LaiFes,
Catharine & Petruchio,
OR
The Taming of the Shrew.
6705)
6000
, 4XOO
4QCO
6roo
350071
69000FOR SJI.F.,
B/ MATHFW CAREY, No. 11S.
Mirki-t-Street,
An Essay on Slavery:
Deigned (onhibit in a new p*.;:n: ot view,
us rhrcis 00 mar*ls, and the ftvee 4/
(earns. Some lads and calculations are offered
to prove the labor otfrctmc* 10 be much more
prtdvHioc than that ol JLsoa ; that counirirs are
r ch, powerful aud happy, m proportion as the
laboi iog people enjoy the Waits of their owu
labor ; and oence lite o- ctffiiy conclu&oa, that
fiawery u imfatitk as well »s
Ptici £5 Cents.
Fetraaiv 1.5
Writing
ON SIGN-BOA RDS, JAPANITD
PLATES, £51c.
Done in the roost elegant manner, and after
the firft mailers ; likewise,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finished at the shortest notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norrii's Court, bark of the New Library,
between Chefnuc and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth streets.
March 4.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. t6, Wall-facet, New-York.
THE Subfcrtbcr intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b«gs leave to of
|cr his ferviceato hi« friends and others, in the
line ol a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their buGnefs, may depend
upon having it traofa&ed with the uimoft fide
lity arid dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boflon, or any
other part of the United State;, will be ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&thtf
NORRIS. COURT,
Back of the New XJjr%ry, between Cbefnu
and Walnt i-Streets.
* George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY i nforms his friends and
tbe pualic in general, that he continues
tairjring on ti:e bafinefs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewile, JAPANNED PLATES,
far doors or window-lhutters,dont in the most
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30, dtf
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commiißons or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia) Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indjvifible
( March 6ih, 1794, o. s.)
The Minister Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of nevrfpapers within the
United States, are requefled to republilh the
foregoing notice. d
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Taken from adlual survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS ptan will be engraved on a plate 26
inches fqaare ; aud it will contain an ex
ad description of all the squares, streets and
alleys in the City and Liberties. The (itaation
of the several public buildings, such as the State-
Houle, City-Hall, Seat of Congress, Churches,
Meeting-Houses, Hospital. Library and Seen in a
lies of Learn.og—of the several Banks, and of
the Federal and State Offices, will be ascertained.
The parts which are built on will be distinguish
ed from those that are not. The courfrs of the
rivalcts between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended to conned the
navigation of these two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a
view of the (hipping in the harbor, and an ele
vation of Congress-Hall, and of the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In (hort, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and deferable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, that is in the author's power :
and it (hall be compleated with the greatest
potfibie difpatcb, as soon as the generous encou
ragement of fubfenbers (hall insure to tbeauthor
such a sum as will be fufficicnt to defray ex
peoces.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical lift of
the Subscriber* names, and information*con
certing the police, population and present date
of the city.
• The price to fubferibes will be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid *t the time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Subfcripttons will be gratefully received at
the principal BookWlcn iu this city—and the
original Draft may be seen at B. Da vies'
No. 68, Market-Are et, at any time until it (hal
be put into the bauds of the Engraver.
Feb. sB.
Jult Imported,
In tVe Ship EJvpmrdp Capt. from
St. Peterftrorg in Ruf&i,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
H* BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN'* DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AMD FO* SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 22, Walnut-street.
March 4,1794-
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND fOR >A 1 I BY
M. Carey,No. 118,Higb-J}reet y
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Satings and
Subjects, 'which art full of Common
Sense, tbt beji ftnft in tbt world.
THIS little book IS written in a ftiie altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well a* to all classes of people, merchant, me
chanics and farmer*. Such a reputation has this
work acquired, that it has passed thro three im
preCior.s tn the caftern dates, and many houle
hoiders deem it so ufeful as to purchafr a copy
for every adult in their families. Pa i c c 2s.
February 4. dlt
War Department.
January 30tb 1794*
INFORMATION is hereby given to .ill the
military invalids of the United State*,that the
funis to which they ate entitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on the sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Ccmmiffioiieis of the Loans
within the states refptftivcly, under the usual re-
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
must be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpi&ive offices, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By- command of the Prctid nt
of the Un-'ed State*,
£3* The printers in the letpcdive flatcs are
requested topublifh the ab;»c- in their newspa
pers for tbe space of two moi.tos.
January 30.
Ge'orge Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining tbe Episcopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of retnrning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
shortest notice, all kinds of pleafnre carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phztons with and
without crane nccks, coachees, chailes, kitte
reens, windsor fnlkeys and chaiis, and liarnefs
of every defcriptioo, in the neatest and nevveft
fefhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but be will be ablaut o give
fatisfa&ion to these who please to employ him
He has for sale, several carriages almost
finittied, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commillion.
Philadelphia, Jap. 6. 1794 m&tgm
Just Publilhed,
In one handsome volume, 12mo. Price 5s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin s Head, No. 41, Second
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Hiarlem.
Correded and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
D. D.
Profeflor of Moral Philofbpbv, and the Law
ol Nature, and of Eccleliaftical History ;
and Minister of the Engliih Church at U
trecht.
Aliquid semper ad commnnem ntilitatem af
ferendum. Cicero.
The F'trft American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality,lf right
ly understood, is the only bails on which
universal justice, sacred order, and perfect
freedom, can be $rmly built, and permanent
ly fecored. The view of it exhibited in this
elTay, at the fame time that it reprefles the
infolencc of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages of oppression ; confirms, in the
most forcible manner, the neceffiry of fubor
dinatioo, and the just demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil diftintfion,
draws more closely every (ocial tie, unites in
one harmonious and justly proportioned sys
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. eodiwtu&ftf
m&thif
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby offered by the Prcfideot and Direc
tor* of ihe Bank of the United States, to any
per fan who (hail, on or belore the firlk day of
M*y arxt, pioouce to them such a plan and eie
vj' lon of a Banking Houfr, as (hall be apptoved
of by them —A p>am, yet handlome troni is
drfired-: The whole building is to be substantial
and commodious w:th as much space around it,
as th* file of the ground will admit.
The Lot on which the building is to beere&-
ed, »s iitnated oq the weft fide of Third street,
between Chefnut and Walnut ft,wts 10 PniUoel
phia ; and its demeniiom are tlo teet on Tturd
ft reel, and about loc feet weft ward.
H. KNOX,
Sea etary oj JVar.
dim
Strert,
A RECOMPENCE OF
THOMAS WILLING, Prrfident.
Jvft Imported,
From London, Dublin, and Giafgow,
And now opening for Tale,
By MATH EW CAREY,
No. 118, Mitrket-Jlrect,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION e F BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Reg:lter for 1792
European Magazine for the 61ft si*
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society* 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity f
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty,a collection of essays t
Varieof Prussia's works
Calm oblerver—by Mackintosh
KuSTell's ancient and modern Europe f
I-angborne's Plutarch
Elegant extra&s, superb.v gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Briffon's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar *
' Townfend's travels in Spain
Taffo's Jerusalem delivered t
Srneilie's translation of Buffo r. <
Berwick's history of quadrupeds i
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips'* history of inland navigation %
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curi«fities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dittionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Prelent state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kitfes of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
voiney s rums or empires
Travels
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downaaan's infancy
Adair's history oi' American Indians
Benington on materialism and imma-erialilm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
G-cyier's description of China
Murphy's translation ot Tacitus
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's sketches of the history ot man
Literal opinion;, or the history ot Beuignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of tue Cromwell tamily
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral lentiments
Stackhoufe's history of the b.ble
life of Philip I Id. &: Hid-
Wonders of nature ai;d art, o vols-
Wanley's wonders of the iittie world, called
man
Wallis on the prevention ot diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruffia,Polknd,&c.
Cox's iravels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's practice of phytic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qnincy's dispensatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the aftbma
Robertfon's treatile oa fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of beat
Monro on di(ea*es of armies
Mailer's physiology
Spalanzane's diifertations
London practice of phytic
Bell's surgery
For Sale by tbe Sttbfcribcrs y
Muscovado sogv in u>ds. icim.
Hyioa and Soncboag Teas.
Sherry Wiso, of fopcrior qiaby, in pipes
and quarter
Indigo.
Boston Beef, in barrels.
And a finall invoice of Mullins.
NALBRC & JOHN FRAZIER,
No. 164* South Front-street.
March 8. fmw4w
Lately Publiflied.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Stkiet :
THE Hiilory of Nrw.Hamplhire, from the
Hi(co*ery of the Ri«ci P.fcataqua—by Je*
nmtaJt B<lkmap t D. D. 3 VoU. Price id Board*,
4 1 2 DniLr*.
The Fo»rrftcr, an American Fable, being a
Sequel to the Hiitory of John Bull the Clothier.
Prce, 75 Cents.
A D:tcourfe, iniendrd to commemorate the
Difcowery of America by Chnftopher Cot am
bus; delivered at the request of the Htflorical
Society m Maflachufett;, O&ober sjd, 1792,
being the completion of the Thud Century,
since that memorable event. To which are
added. Four D<iTrrtatioi>&, connected with toe
fubjtd—By the lame author. Price, 50 Cents.
March 17. ii»m
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Fuoir the llth day of April next,
at the htfffe of John Tboinfon, in Perth-
Amb oy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CITY.
I Lot contains eleven acres, on which is
1 an orchard of grafted apple trees, a well of
excellent water, a large stone c stern, and a very
commodiou* liable <*nd coach-house, and a great
quantity of the best building stones in the walls
of the house, which was formerly built for the
reftdence of the Governors of New-Jersey. The
tuuatiob of this Lot is so well know n for us
health:nefs and beautiful profped ofiheßariioa
river to the weft of the bay, and Sandy-Hook to
tl.* fall, thai a turiher description isunorcrffirr.
The conditions of sale will be, one third ot the
purchase money 10 be paid on the fir ft day of
May next, when a goou and fuffrci'nr Deed will
be given to the puichafer, by Wait** Ru
ths r sued, Esq. Prrfident of the Board of
Proprietors ot the E.ftcrn Divilion of New-
Jeifey, tea the remaining two thiids fati&tatto
rily fecurcd in equal annual payments.
Bv order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Rcgifter.
Perth-Ambov, February 5. 1794. *. s«n
Excellent CLARET,
In Logheads and in cases of 50 boulc* each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,,
In ptpct, hogtheads and quaucr casks,
FOR. SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, Sottih Froui Ikreci.
Jan. 2, 1794.
Hecry Rape State of Maryland.
_ ) High Court of Chancery,
Benjamin Gaither > March 5 th. 1794.
and \
Basil Caitber
The Complainant states
ia his b II that the defendants Benjamin Gai
tlier and 3au; Gaither were Pel zed in fee as
tenants in common of a tract of land in Fre
derick County, called Hammond's Strife ; —
that ae ng lo seised, Basil executed a power
of attorney to Benjamin author izrg him to
fell his, the said Baft's interest in the la d
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin fold
the laid land to a certain William Gaither for
the couiideration of fix hundred pounds which
hath been since paid, that the laid William
hath aiHgned to the Complainant Henry Rape
tlie bond executed by the said Bei jaroin for
the conveyance of tae said land : The Com
plainant now further (tates (and so appeal s
to the Chancellor) that the defendants are
uoo-reildents of the date of Maryland, and
herefore out of the reach of tbe process of
this court.
It is therefore adjudged aid ordered, that
tbe£omp!ainant procure a copy of this or
der to be inserted in the newspaper of Angell
and Sul i van, and m the United States Gazet e
at least three weeks fucceifively, before tbe
twentieth day of May next ; to tbe intent
that tbe Defendants and all others, who may
conceive themselves ioterefl&d in the premis
es, may have ootice to appear in this courr,
on or before tbe third Tucfday in September
next, to shew cause wherefore a decree fiioold
not pats for veiling ia the Complainant a com
plete legal title to tbe land a fore laid.
Tefl,
SAMUEL HARVEY
Kq- Cur. Coo.
tuth&Jjw
March iB.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible fit nation, —a] Co a Co4atry Scat
within 6 miles of the City, *iikfaati<i
lino, or 42 acres of bsd i«J meadow, tbe
Houle is not exceeded bjrßinf is tfae ricflitf
rf the city, ia size or Cflnrfkiift.
F« tenns apply to the prater.
Jacsaiy l}. ilrt H