EVE NING ADVERTISER.
[No. 63 of Vol. V.]
For Sale or Charter,.
The Ship
«fW ANDROMACHE,
(an American bottom)
qf yoM Moore, Matter ;
Is a stout good veflel, about two years old,
burthen 132 tons, has only made three voy
ages, and may be sent to fei at a fmajl ex
pence. She mjiy be seen at Vmc-ftreet wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
Wharton & Lewis.
Feb. 55,1794. dtf
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldfmilhs Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
An elegant Ajjortment of
SILVER isf PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY W fine CUTLERY,
Which they will difpoie of on the molt rea
sonable terms- Devices in hair, Miniatures
felt, and every thing in the gold and lilver
way, done as iifual.
December 24.
Philosophical Le&ures,
By J. M. R A Y.
FROM Edinburgh", lately From Paris,
teacher of* Hebrew, &c. language., au
thor of Comprehensive View of Philof'ophlcaf,
Political, and Theological Syflems, from the
ertation of the world to the pre lent time, &c.
H? .will begin thifedond com fe of Lectures
February 27th, at 6 o'clock in the evening, in
the Friends' grammar school room, 4i I* Greet,
and will finiftrit in a month.—-The idea of tt
was by fume Ladies for the improve
ment of the ft?x—but tt is calculated fur both
f*xe< (of any age above childhood] wherebv
thev will difceyer a new world in natute,
tonceilcd horn othe. s as a fine country is'
froin travellers in the night, ai.d as the
ai'd the appearance of natute is from the
blind ; this will be a new icene of enjoyment
and delight, as that of feeing is to one born
blind, and will teach ihem to acquire the pro
per uf'e of their faculties, as a child does that
of his limbs by learning to walk this will
elevate tlvetn to a Philosophical region of sub-
Jinic enjoyments and rational pieafures, as
.much luperior 10 the pleffitres and amufe
mcnts of others as a man is to a child in sta
ture, and which will endure the (hock of ad
versity, and not forfake ihem like others, in
affliction and old age ; a» the use and end of
all real knowledge is pra&ice and happ'mefs,
this course will tend to promote personal hap
pinclk, and fit for the duties of fociity, one
part of it will be on the preservation of health
of body and ferenityof mind, without which
riches can afford noenjoyment : those whoob
fcrved the author's regimen,efcaped the Pesti
lential dfeafe in the house were others died
of it. To begin with an introductory Lec
fu'e on the great benefits of Philosophy to
human life.
Feb. 19.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between.Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Epilfcopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and .equefting their future favors, as well as
thofeof the public in general.
Hc continues to make and repair at the
ffioiteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
iuch as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, vouchees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chaits, and harness
of every description, in the neatest and newest
faftiion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the bed seasoned
wood by him, ard capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will-be able to give
fati*faftion to thole who pleufe.to employ him.
He has for sale, several carriages almost
finifhed, such as coachee-, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a liglt phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794 Illfctjrn
<£j* This Ga%ette Jhall be enlarged, as it
receives encouragement —The Snbfcription
encrcafes daily—AJvertifing Favors are
foliated —These conjlitute an ejftniial Item
in diminifbing the Debit fide of the Account.
.of tf)e Hmfri) HWafeg
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his-Store, No. 25, Dock-
Barcelona Handkerchiefs 'm Boxes,
A hale of low-pt iced Collon Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity ol Souchong TV a, Hylun and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Gru in Ca/es,
A Quantity of Biinrftonp,
W'th a Variety of oilier Goods.
3'au6w
Tcb. 20.
Fifty Dollars Reward.
ON tnr 31ft of last month, the fnbfcrib r ad
dri'ilcJ a letter to MrJTiThomas Pearfall
£3 Hon, mcichams in New-York, and ine'krfjd
therein a bank note, No. for twenty dol
lars ; one ditto, No. lor thirty do)iiirs ;
and on* ditto, Ni. 3,866, tor twenty dollars.
—He alio addretfVo a letter lo Mr. CUtert
Sahonjlall, merchant in New.Ymic, a
hank bill, No. 148, for fifty dollars, indorjcd
on the bar.k thereof in thefr words— Cl Pa) the
within to Mr. Gilbert SultuiiJla/t —Ebtn. Hunting
ton."—He also addrefled a letter to Messrs. White
& Wardell, merchants in New-York, and inci
ted a bdnk bill for trn dollars, and a draft in fa
vor of said H'hite.& Wardell, which letters were
put in the Polt-Office on fa-d 31ft January, to
be forwarded so Ncw-Yotk ; But by letters rer
ceived from the Gemlemcn to whom they were
fcverally addressed, thf money was iobbed
from each letter before delivery.
imvSjftf
The Public arc rr<jurfled to endeavor a de
letion of the Villains who committed the above
robbery. The bill int'ioried, 1 think was a York
bank bill, and form- others, one or more was
of the United States ba.uk, remitted at Philadel
phia. Anv person difcovcrinj the Thief, and
returning the Money, shall be. entitled to fifty
dollars reward.
EBEN. HUNTINGTON.
Norwich, i4?b Fob. 1794. gwgtaw
GIFFORD DALLY,
Eprvieriy Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Cvffct-Htittft if this
City
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public 111 general, that he has THIS
DAY opened a HOTIL in Sihippen-Street, be
tween Third and Fouith-Streets, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmon's, which
has lately been greatly improved, 'and is now
very commodious; where be bas furnilhed him
felf wiih the best of LIQUORS, and will fur
nifb a TABLE for Panics, with the best provi
sions the Markets afford, at any hoiir, 011 the
shortest notice. From his long experience in
this line of bufinef*, he flatters himfelf he (ball
be able to gi\e fatisfaff :on to all who may please
to favor him with their company.
Philadelphia, January 29, 1794.
STATE or SOUTH-CAROLINA.
December 21(1,1793.
WHEREAS the Coramiflioncrs of public
Accounts, have repotted, that they can
not proceed to thr in-cftigation of the Trenfury
Accounts, rrfpe&ing fpccial Indents, without
knowing the outltanding amount thereof in cal
culation :—Therefore,
Refulvcd, That all holders of special Indents
be dirt ft* d, and required, 00 or before the Brit
day ol November n: xt, to deliver the special In
dents in their pofleflion to one or Other of the
Gommifliom rs of the Trealury, who are lo give
receipts for the fume, and to report tp tbeCom
miflionerj. on public accounts, on or before the
tenth «Jay of November next, the amount by
therw refpe&ively received, and also to the Le
gislature, at their meeting in November next.
And that all special .Indent* not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the fiift day
of November next, lhall be, and the fame are
hereby baried.
RcJohtJi That public notice of this resolution
be given m the several Garettes in thjs State,
once every three weeks, until the fir ft day of
November nrxt. And that the Delegate* el'this
State in the Congress of the United Siates, be rc
<]<»eftcd to cause this rclolution lo be publiftied
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made lor the cxpencea attending such publica-
Ordered, That the refutation be sent to the
•Senate for their concurrcnce.
December ft, 1703.
Pefo/vcd, That this House do concur with the
Houle ot Repiefentatives in the foregoing reso
lutions.
Ordered, That the resolutions be lent to the
House ol Reprefentaiivcs.
ewtNov.
Monday, February 24, 1794-
Street;—
A fpw Bait s of Rnflj 1 Shcrnngs,
Daily's Hotel.
In the House of Refirefenta/ives,
Bv order of the House,
JOHN £AN FOR D DART, C. H. R.
In the SENATE,
By or.fler of the Senate,
F£LIX WARLfcY, Cleik,
A N D
PHILADELPHIA, Feb. 24.
From a Correfpondcnt.
A party leader pays dearly for his ho
nors,; he must often speak one way and
look another—he must sometimes be silent
when he wilhes t# speak, and sometimes
speak when he wishes to be silent. He has
a world of trouble to keep things right ;
while he is giving a lelfon to one pupil,
another runs restive ; while he is laboring
to keep A. in the right road, B. runs astray
—the life of a driver of hungry pigs or
flupid turkics is more easy. He is obliged
to have his scouts and his rangers to recon
noitre ; if tliey get knocked on the head,
he must retreat j if they make an imprefli
on he must be ready to fnpport them ; if
they hazard too milch, or mismanage, it
is understood that he is at liberty to aban
don them and join the enemy, because it
is of consequence that he (hould not com
mit himfelf. His influence would be im
paired, if he were rashly to engage and be
defeated ; that business is therefore aflign
ed to the forlorn hope—they are suppos
ed to have nothing to lose, and the honor
of being the instruments is a fufficient com
pensation ; a little well applied flattery
from the leader amply rewards their labors.
If he has a point to carry which is doubt
ful, and the failure of which may derogate
from his fame, an underling is employed
to feel the ground ; he hangs aloof till he
fees how it takes, but whispers assistance
and plays the Prompter—at firft gives it
a fide wind puff, without committing him
fe/f —if that succeeds, he then likes the idea
and thinks under modifications it may do,
but still flieltere himfelf under a pro-vifo,
which may bring him fafcly off the field,
if neoeflary. He must pay a compliment
to young hands, approve their sentiments
and applaud their talents. Flattery is an
irrefiftable charm : He must now and then
support absurdities to keep his friends in
good humor, and oppose what he thinks
right, to disappoint and weaken his adver
saries. Such are the toils of a Party
Leader.
For the Gazette of the United States.
Mr. Fenno,
I was much pained at a piece in your
paper of last evening, signed Crilo. The
dilputes refpe&ing the Theatre, I fup
poftd to have been at an end long since;
and little did I think that any of dis
ciples of Fanat'uifm would have again made
their appearance to rouse into adlion the
dormant principles of fuperjlitious bigotry
and ignorance. But it seems I was mistak
en, for the quiet and peaceable principles of
the oppofers to Theatrical representations
could not endure the mortify ingrefletlion of
being defeated in theiraims by thepowerful
arguments of Reason andT*UTH without
making an expiring effort to bring forth
the worst of passions lurking in the hu
man heart to aid their miserable cause;
and if poflible induce the molt ignorant
and uninformed part of the community to
fide with them, though evidently and un
deniably against their own interest.
Finding that the legislature were deter
mined to ast as the representatives of a
free people ever ought to do, that is NOT
to pass an ast violating and infringing upon
the laws and conjlitution of the Jlate and the
unalienable rights of its citizens, the <wur
.thy Crito has come forward to found the
trumpet'of alarm anddifmay to the igno
rance, the paflions, and the prejudices
of mankind, and in cafe his juj! and rea
sonable desires are not complied with, he
intimates and threatens to pour forth all
the dreadful vengeance of his mofl terrible
■wrath! !—which must be terrible indeed !
But this amiable mejfenger of peace in
forms ut that " the devotees of Comus
triumph in the victory which they have
obtained," that they are " inflating the
feelings of their mourning fellow-citizens."
A rare discovery truly, and worthy of its
author !—lf by the • devotees of Conuis'
[Whole No. 521.]
he means the friends of the Theatre and
such as are willing to amuse tliemfelves in
innocent recreation, I mult beg leave to
all< him to point out one single circum
stance wherein they have acted in this man
ncr* Has any insulting or triumphant
language or publications been ufcd or
made in any refpeft since the dispute was
thought to have been terminated—-No
But it seems some person has had the 'wfa
lent pnfumbtioaXo dare to give a chara&er
of the performers.
Here is " insulting the feelings of the
citizens with a vengeance—Wiio could
have thought that any person would have
had the brazen faced impudcnce to fay
whether the pei fonjiere acted well or ill 1
Tho' perhaps the good Crito would have
no objection to having his wondrous Vo
lenti celebrated in all the newspapers piib
lifhed on the continent.
This excellent defenderof morality hasdif
fered in hi* mode of attack from some of his
colleagues, and molt violently fell foul of
" the wealthier citizens" as'the encoura
gers of these amusements, whom he af
iures have all provided a retreat againfl
" next fummei," when he declares (be
yond all doubt from intuitive knowledge cr
infpirat'wn, or both,) that the yellow-'ferer
will again spread its deftrudive ravages
through our oity, and this he can with jus
tice aocufe them of as an attrocious crime,
since the faithful followers and firm belie
vers of his party remained to a man firm
at their pejis during that trying scene last
year ; and so great was their confidence
in their own virtues, merits ami doSrims,
that not a Jingle one was known to fly to
the country for protection andfecurity from
the contagion. But to the point, Crito
fays it is the "-wealthy" who are advo
cates for the Theatre. A great change
this, for it is not many months linpe some
of his party aflerted that the poor, the
lower, and the more infignificant classes only
were its friends, and that there was scarce
ly a wealthy or refpeaable person to be
found on that fide of the qutrftion. But
Confijlency, is a quality every person is not
born to inherit.
I have not a doubt that those persons
who are willing to amuse themfclvei at
the Theatre, have felt and do feel as sensi
bly and warmly for the late dreadful cala
mity as any other person whatever, be
they who they may.—But at the fame
time are not quite willing to place unlimi
ted confidence in the alTertiont of such
immaculatcgeniufes as Crito, who take the
people for fools or madmen, to think they
can place the lead reliance on them,
wheu they pompously aflert with as much
aflurance as if they were special agents
of the Supreme Being, that our late cala
mity was owing to the ereaion of a The
atre, and that the continuance of drama
tic representations will inevitably bring it
on us again. I would also observe, that
while the citizens pursue their amufemenU
in an orderly peaceable manner, and with
decency, (which cannot be denied, has
been remarkably so in the cafe of the
Theatre, by any person who has the least
regard for truth) no dogmatical, a (Turning
di&ator has any business or right to in
terfere with them ; and if Crito or any of
his friends fllould " kindle a fiame" to
destroy our rights of conscience or impair
our constitution, he and they may be made
forelv to rue the day that their itch for
intermedling with the concerns of others, set
their plodding heads and hands at work,
to subvert and destroy the right of thinking
in every person but themselves.
ANTI-BIGOTRY.
Feb. 21 ft, 1794.
From the American Star of TburfJay.
Re p u blican Style.
The republican rear-admiral arrived, at
Hampton, writes to citizen Puyfere, com
manding the station, or rather the convoy
in the Chefapeak, the following letter,
" Puyfere ! hold thyfelf ready, thou and
thy convoy, to fail in ten days. Be it at
thy refponlibility if thou difobeyeft this
order."NEW THEATRE.
This Evening, Fib. 24,
Will be pei farmed,
A Thao tD V j called
Venice Prefervd,
Or, a PLOT DISCOVERED.
Duke of Venice, Mr. Finch.
Piiull, Mr. Whitlock.
Bodamar, Mr. MarlhaH.
Pierre, Mr. Fennell.
Jaflier, Mr. Wign-U.
Renault, Mr. Green.
Spinora, Mr. Harwood.
F.lliot, Mr. Moreton.
Durand, Mr. Warrell.
Officer, Mr. Francis.
Belvidera, Mrs. Whitlock.
After the Tra S edj a Pa3oral DANCE,
Called the
HIGHLAND FROLIC
To which will be added, a Fjrck in two
Acts, called
The Lying Valet.
Sharp, Mr. Bates.
Gargle, Mr. Moreton.
Justice Guttle, Mr. Warrell
Beau Trippet, Mr. Harwood.
Drunken Cook, Mr. Francis.
McaHa, Mrs. Francis.
Mrs. Gadabout, Mrs. Bates.
Mrs. Trippet, Mrs. Rowfon.
Betty Pry, Mrs. Shaw.
Boxes, one dollar —Pitt, three quarters
of a dollar—and Gallery, half a dollar.
fivat Refpublica.
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, deducting 15 per Cent, from
the Prizes—this Lottery conftjls of
38,000 Tickets, in 'which there are
!4>J *9 Prices and 23,461 Blanks,
ttni* about o:u and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
r I HF. of 'h? Society for eflabliftvng
i- Uw'ul Macula&ure*, having rcf.»lved to
erc£l LO l"T '< lES h>r raftnj; One Hundred
Thousand 1)ol lak s, agreeably to an Ast of
the L turc ol ihi Stitir of Ntw - )f.fey, Kivh
'appointed the following petfons to fuprrintend
a id dirrft the drawing of the fame. viz. Nicho
las I.ow, Rijlus King, Herman Lc R y, James
W«»'f<»n, R.chard Hamloii, Ab.jah Hammond,
and Corr »Inis R v, of the city ol New-York—
Thomas W ll'»'g. J-'Crph Bull, Matthew M'Con
i) i and Andrew Bayard, of the city of Phila
dclp't'a— H.s tx (lu nev Richard Howell, Esq.
J*lias B tudinot, Genrtal FL at Dayton, Jain-s
Parker. |«hrt R*yar<', D £1 Donham,
Samu IW.Stork'on, foflina M. W-N-ice, Jofepb
Bl'iomfifld, and Elifha lio idinnt, of Nrw-Jer
fcy, who i.ffcr the following Scheme of a Lot
tery, and pledge ihemfeivis ;o the public, that
ihry will take every a slur ner and precaution in
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, Irom time to time, received, into
the Banks at New-Y'>'k and Philadelphia, to
remain lot ihe putpofeof paving Pri*-s, which
(hall be immediately by a check
upon oue of ih" Bank'.
SCHEME
1 Prize of 20.000 Dollars is 20,000
ic.ooo
5.000
*,000
1 coo
100
3CO
ICOO
tooo
3000
8100
I- S -<0 ?r ''7rs,
23.461 Blanks. First drawn number, 2,000
L.tft <lnwn number, 2,000
38 000 Tickrtj at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
'I l>< dr-i'ving will commence, under ihe in
fpefti nof a Committee of (he Superintendents,
as toon ■>$ the Tickets are (old t ot which timely
noi'c will J>~given.
Thr Supetinu-ndants have apnnintt-d John N.
Cumming, of NVwaik, Jacob R. Hirdenberg,
of New-Brunfwi< k, and Jonathan Rhea, of
Tienion, as mimediate Manager* thereof, who
h;>ve given ample fecuiity for drfcharging the
iiuft reposed in them.
In order to fecurethe pun&ml payment
of ch Piirrs, the Suprrintendamsof the Lottery
have directed that the Managers iliail e.aeh enter
into t>ond* in 4c ,000 dollars, w>th four fufficient
learnt i s, to priform their iufttu&tons, the fub
flance of which is
I. That whenever cither of the Managers
(Kali ircciVethc fuin of Three Hundred Dollars,
he (h.iil immdutely place the fame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
cicdu «>l ihe Governor of the Socicty, and such
of 'he Supciiii;cnd«rHi as l ve in the city where
the monirs are placed, tp remain there until the
Lottery i» drawn, for the payment of the Price*.
11. The to take fufficient security
for any Tickeu they may trull, o'.herwife to be
refpnnuh'r for them.
111. To krrp regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ah
fl'a&s of which (hall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Palcrfon. January 1, 1794.
On •pplicaiion ro either of the above grntle.
men, information will be given where tickets
may be had.
February *4,
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
LONDON, Dcc. 9.
The Parliament of Ireland, is to meet
on the ill of January.
Tlie naval lilt laid before the King, by
the Esrl of Chatham,in his majeftv's closet,
on Walaefday latk, makes the total num
ber of Ihips of the Britifti navy now in
commission 289, which are rated as sol-
lows
Of the line, from no guns to 64, -
Fifty gun ships, ...
Frigates, from 38 to 24 guns, - 110
Sloops and Cutters of all del'criptions, 81
The ordinary of the navy also is 5$
ships of the line, nine of fifty guns, 22
frigates, 24 (loops.
The difmi/Jion of the French Consul, and the
recal of the Minifler Genet,
Have not only put an end to every so
licitude entertained from the contagion of
new prineiples in America, but have (hewn
the world how different are the maxims
and conduit of every well-ordered demo
cracy, from the wild and violent proje£t«
of tliefe sublime and furious republicans.
From the Englijb Review.
NATIONAL AFFAIRS,
For November 1793.
The French Commonwealth
ha?, from its foundation, exhibited every
symptom of premature internal decay.—
But though uafupported by any of those
circumthnces which are supposed to con
fer liability on dates and empires, it has
hitherto been cemented by the extrava
gant exertions of felf-dcluded enthusiasts;
and though the
Recent Execution
of the leaders of the moderate party must
have fatiefied every impartial observer,
that the diiTentions in the Convention are
r tiler struggles for particular aggran
dizement than for general freedom—yet,
by silencing oppofilion, it has produced
the appearance of unanimity, and by re
moving the hope of amendment, incul
cates the neceflity of submitting to pre
sent misfortune. The decided difference
of political sentiments may be fpecified
as a reason for the feveritics exercised a
gainst the loyalifls ; but nothing could
have induced the remnant of this legiila
ture to (laughter colleagues, who, for
conduct similar to their own, had encoun
tered the execration of Europe, but the
operation of personal animosity, or the
insatiable appetite for power. The arti
cles of accusation preferred againlt them
are numerous and inconsistent; they are
at the fame time upbraided with desiring
the reiteration of the monarchy, and wilh
wishing to establish a federative Repub
lic j with fomenting the war with Eng
land, and seeking to raise the Duke of
York to the vacant throne of France.—
From such absurd contradictions we must
conclude, that the disapprobation of the
projects of Danton and Roberfpierre «vas
their chief offence, and the implacable re
sentment of the present rulers, the sole
motives for their condemnation. They
died as martyrs to the cause for the suspi
cion of betraying which they fuffered ; —
and as they funk, in their apprehension,
to Eternal Sleep, the ejaculation<af "Vive
la Republique," was the last which breath
ed from their lips. The merit of conspi
cuous talents, BrifTot and his aflociates
may be allowed to claim ; but too fero
cious and independent to submit to the
fvvay of the unfortunate Louis, and too
haughty and enlightened to yield to a
giddy and capricious multitude, by their
untimely fate they have expiated the guilt
they incurred by fanftioning the murder
of their sovereign, and overturning the
constitutional freedom of their country.
Poflefling fufficicnt capacity to excite the
form, they were destitute of adequate
ability and influence to direst or allay it;
and perhaps were not endowed with the
persevering wickedness requisite to ensure
popularity in the midst of the convulsions
they had raised. But the patient acqui
cfcence of the French in this measure, is
the furell proof of the ignorance of the
genuine principles of freedom which pre
vails among that people. They have seen
reprefentativej, freely nominated bythem
felves, and who (till continued to enjoy
the confidence of theii electors, tried by
a tribunal inflituted by personal enmity,
and from thence conducted to the fcaf
fold, without lefledting, that by this pro
10,000
10.000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
30,000
36,000
Bt,ooo
262,000
Uwtf,
oeeding, their favorite republicanism is
destroyed, and a tyrannical anarchy ere£t
ed on its ruins. The diflipation of this
delusion may be attended by some popu
lar tumult more awful than any which
may have preceded it, and the whole of
the Nationol Convention, inflead of a -
wai;ing the tardy and uncertain vengeance
of the allied powers, become the victims
of the implacable hatred they have con
ceived against each other. To live de
spised, and to die unpitied, is the moll
heavy misfortune which can happen to
man ; and such a degree of misery is the
lot of only the mod profligate and aban
doned. When, therefore, we fay that
such was the fitnation of
Total 289
we convey the severest cerifure which can
be pafled on his character. After having
long exhibited a portion of folly and wick
edness, of ambition and weakness which
rarely combine in forming the fame cha
racter, in his last moments he appears to
have derived some relief from the (lings of
an awakened confidence, in the fond hopes
of annihilation; and, with an affeCted
courage, pronounced the period of his
death to be the happielt of his existence.
Born to support the throne he helped to
subvert ; to protest the kinsman and the
king in whose deftruftion he gloried ; to
diffufe happiness over the land he assisted
to desolate ; in the pursuit of arbitrary
power he allied himfelf to a fa£tion by
which he was negleCted, contemned, and
murdered. Upon such an occasion, the
contemporary observer with confidence vi
olates the hallowed dignity of the tomb,
and transmits the
Duit of Orleans
to the contempt and abhorrence of every
future generation. In the execution of
the wife of
we difcoverthe fury which still continues
to rage against that minister, who, from
the benevolence and compassion of his dif
polition, still preserved some claim to ref
peft amidst the general corruption of his
countrymen. She died like the heroine
who had participated her husband's coun
sels, and advised his measures. Awed by
her reproaches into (hame, or terrified in
to the fear of detection by their continu
ance, her judges at once delivered them
selves from remorse, and secured the pro
longation of their jurifdi&ion, by her
summary condemnation. But to enter in
to any further enumeration of maflacres
attended with uniform circumftances,would
be a disgusting and unprofitable taflc ;
though the lingular courage with which
every fufferer submitted to his fate, will
be recorded as an unparalleled precedent
of the influence of sceptical enthusiasm.
Atheism, fays a great experimental mo
ralist, islefs pernicious in its practical ef
fects than superstition. Had Lord Bacon
been now living,he might have seen reason
to rctraft his opinion. The gloomv irre
ligion of France may enter fuccefsfully in
to competition with the fanaticifm which
Mahometan imposture & Papal ignorance
inspire ; and in the votaries of all we may
remark the fame desire of difleminating
their opinions,the fame resentment against
those who presume to difient, and the
fame indifference in infliih'ng and yielding
to the stroke of death. Connected with
this sentiment, and in the intervals which
can be spared from the more serious busi
ness of proscriptions andaflaflinations, the
unextinguifhable frivolity of the national
character bnrfts forth with renovated
splendor. The institution of a new cal
endar j the erection of temples to mo
dern philosophy in lieu of those which
were consecrated to the Deity of Christi
anity ; and the worship of Parisian (trum
pets, arrayed in the insignia of the god
dess of freedom ; are the occupations
which diveriify the toils, and relax the
cares, of the legislators of France. And
the multitude ftied their blood on the
frontiers, or enjoy the revels of the me
tropolis, rejoice at the guillotine over the
lifelefs remains of their fellow-citizens, or
weep in the theatre at the exhibition of
fictitious woe, according to the varying ca
price of the di£t»tors by whom they are
directed.
UNITED STATES.
NORFOLK, February 12.
Late neivs from France.
On Saturday last arrived in Hampton
Roads, the French frigate Charant, of 40
gune, from Rochfort, and on Monday the
remainder of the French fleet, confilting
of the following reflels, viz.—Le Tigre,
Philip £ga!itt,
Roland,
of 80 guns ; Le Jean Bart, of 74 guns ;
La Concorde, of 40 guns ; LeSemilliante,
of 40 guns, Le Papillon brig, and a cor
vette. They failed from France on 26th
December lart, in company with two more
(hips of the line, who may be daily ex
pected here or at New-Yoik.
They have brought out the new Mini
ster appointed to succeed Mr. Genet; and
also Consuls for the different Diftridts of
the United States.
On their passage they have taken four
prizes, viz.—a frigate and a (loop of war
from the East-Indies, who were dispatched
express with the news of the capture of
Pondicheriy, and had on board the trea
sure and trophies taken there ; they also
captured a (hip in company with the above,
who had on board, (besides other pro
perty) 87,000 dollars ; they were sent to
France under a fufficient convoy. The
fourth was a merchantman, taken near
this coast, and whose arrival -1s hourly
looked for.
The information received hy this fleet
is, That the internal affairs of France are
now in a regular and prosperous train ;
that the Army of the Pyrtnnees, after se
veral fuccefsful battles, had entcrtd. Spain,
and conquered the whole of Catalonia,
except Barcelona ; that so rapid were the
successes of the French arms in that quar
ter, there was little doubt but that bv this
time the Cargmanole dance was perform
ing in the environs of Madrid ; that the
batteries raised againfl Toulon bad suc
ceeded in cutting off the communication
between the inner and outer harbours,
which had reduced the town to the great
est ditlrefs for provisions, the garrison was
on an allowance of 4 oz. of bread per
diem; that Toulon had twice offered to
capitulate, but the Convention having
pa)[td a decree for its total deftru&ion,
the Republican General was determined
they (hould surrender at discretion ; that
the Prussian army in Alsace meeting with
strong opposition, had given up the design
of besieging Strafbouig, had recrofTed the
Rhine, and totally quitted the territories
of the Republic ; that in Austrian Flan
ders, Courtray, Menin, and Nicupoi t w».re
in poffeflion of the Republican' troops,
and Oftend close beficged ; that the Con
vention had decreed the seizure of all
goods and merchandize the manufacture
of her enemies, and placed them in the
public ftoies, paying the former owners
for them j and also that no more fliould
be admitted into France from those coun
tries during the war; that the cruizing
frigates on the coast of France had been
particularly fuccefsful; and that the Re
public, in spite of the perfidy of the Tou
lonefe, will have ready for sea by the la ft
of February, a fleet of 50 fail of the line
well manned. We also und'erftand that
M. Bompard is under arrest at Paris.
The almost impregnable lines of Weif
fembourg, which the treacherous general
Ferriere had delivered up to the Piuflians
and Germans, have been retaken by the
Republicans, who have again entered the
Dutchv of Deux Ponts, where the grand
army of the Lower Rhine have retreated.
The Swiss cantons have renewed their
treaty with the Republic, and have en
gaged themselves by the new treaty to ob
serve the ftrifteft neutrality, and to ffua.'d
with a fufficient force, all the defiles"thro'
which the enemies could enter the territo
ry of the Republic ; that an army of six
ty thousand men, which before the new
treaty guarded those defiles, has now
marched into Lower Alsace.
The laws of the Republic, were in full
vigor, and had never yet, fmce the begin
ning of the revolution been so well obeyed;
the most perfect tranquility and harmony
reign every where : the 140,000 of re
serve, being the class of citizens, from the
age of 18, to 25, are to aflemble early in
the Spring, to go to reinforce the arniiei
on the ioontiers.
RUTLAND, (V.) Feb. 10.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman at
Philadelphia to his friend in this coun-
ty, dated Jan 13
" Our political situation is alarming',
and requires the utmost wisdom and firm
nefs of mind ; violent exertions are made
to prejudice this country against France ;
and if poilible to provoke her to a war with
us—Never did Israel lull more after the
leeks and onions of Egypt, than many at
this day to get back under Britifti influ
ence ; indeed there appears to be more
tones now, than there was in 1775 ; par
ties run high, but the Republican interest
as yet prevails.PETERSBURG, Feb. 14.
Extract of a letter from a gentlemaft in
Norfolk, to his friend in Richmond.
" A gentleman brings us very import
ant advice from Philadelphia ; it is that
the belligerent powers have at last agreed
upon a Congress, to be held in France,
composed of Commissioners from all the
powers at war and those in neutrality, to
treat upon a general peace. Mr. Jeffcrfon,
it isfaid, is appointed to that embafly, on
the part of the United States Further,
that the Biitdh have agreed to pay for all
our vessels taken by their piratical priva
teers, and we are to pay for all theirs tak
en by privateers originally fitted out in
the ports of the United States."
Trifles light as air wi.'ljhow,
Like feathers, hoiv the win J does blow.
BALTIMORE, Feb. 20.
By a gentleman juit from Norfolk, and
who was present at the dispute between
an American Captain and Sir Charles
Knowles, commander of the Brittfh fri
gate Dedalus, refpefting a seaman—our in
formant (vvhofe veracity i« undoubted)
fays, that the seaman was not pressed, but
entered freely on boar d the frigate—that
there was no attempt made by the French
Admiral to take poirefTton of the Dedalus
—and our informant understood that mat
ters were fettled between the two consuls
so as to preserve perfect tranquility while
at that port—that there was no horse (hot,
nor any tiring at the American brig—and
that Sir Charles Knowles had obtained a
nother hand for the American brig in
place of the one entered 011 board his {hip.
It is \vith pleasure the Editor announces
to the public, that the fortunate ticket,
No. 12,536 which was drawn a prize of
20,000 dollars in the Wafliington Hotel
Lottery, is the property of Mrs. S. E.
Van-Bibber, the amiable spouse of An
drew Van-Bibber, Esq. merchant of this
town.
PHILADELPHIA,
FEKRUARY 24.
Extra&of a Letter from Cincinnati, da-
ted Jan. 20th, 1794.
" Some few days fince,l returned from
Head-Quarters, where 1 had the great
plrafure and fatisfaction of viewing in a
wilderness, 2500 of the moll regular,
mod harmonious, and bed disciplined
troops I have ever yet beheld, either in
the United States, or any other part of
the world. The exertions of General
Wayne have been uniform and great, for
which he merits the hight (I approbation
of the country at large, but more efpeci
allyof this quarter, which sensibly feels
the benefit of the terror which his con
duel has druck into the breads of the Sa
vages ; their fears began with the firft or
ganization of the army at Legionville,
and which continued to encreafe as he ap
proached them ; at Fort Washington they
became acquainted with his Indian mode
of fighting,—this damped their courage,
being an adoption of a plan, to them ut
terly unexpected, and considered as im
practicable to regular troops ; his line of
march from this place to Head Quarters
being circumfpeft and guarded, together
with a Ai ong garrison being recently plac
ed at their feat of triumph, have produc
ed ptofpeclsthe moil pleasing. God grant
they may not be frustrated, by attempt
ing to hold any more nugatory treaties,
which we are well informed they have ar
dently solicited fmce they fee decision on
the wing—at lead let us at lird puflv our
pods far enough into their country, to se
cure a peace, in cafe one (hould again be
contemplated.
v It is much to be lamented that the
General has not his legion complete, as
the want of a fufficient number of men is
all we have to dread."
Saturday the 22d inllant, being the
Birth Day of our beloved President, the
Managers of the City Dancing Aflfem
bly eaKC a Ball in the eveniug.
They were honored with the company
of the President and Mrs. Walhington,
several of the Foreign Ministers, a num
ber of the members of Congress, the Se
cretaries of the treasury and of war, the
Governors of the State and of the Wes
tern Territory, and the most brilliant dif
|>lay of beauty, perhaps, ever exhibited
in this city. The countenances of all
piefent, appeared perfcflly congenial
with the happy occasion.
The following toads wete drank, the
'art after the President and Mrs. Wartl
'ngton had left the room.
1. The day—may it aHways be illus
trious in the annals of time, for the civil
and military virtues it gave birth to.
2. May the hand of liberty always
entwine the brow of patriotism. 1
3, May the light of Liberty illumi
nate the recelTes of Despotism, a«.d all
the world be tree.
4. May our Republican virtues in
peace, equal our military exertions in
war.
May the fetters of Slavery be bro
ken on the head of fyianny.
6. The Fair of A merifca—may they
be protected and embraced by the
of Freemen.
7- Tile United States, the colony of
the world, the alfyhim of unmerited dis
tress, andperfecured virtue.
8. May the turbux,;ec of Fa£Hon be
trodden under the feet of Liberty.
9. The Prefirlent of the United States
—long may he live an example to magif
tratet, and a bhfiing to his country.
Extra6l from a Pamphlet entitled, " Old
and New Principles of Trade bow pa red."
" If these governments [of North-A
merica] pursue their advantages for Agri
culture ; if they admit the manufactures
ot Europe, rendered cheap by bounties
snd real advantages attending the arts in
rich and populous countries, without re
gard to their own manufa&ures, (which
will always be established with ease, when
their eftabhfhment is beneficial) and if
they avoid politics, they may out-wit, by
a natural conduct, a multitude of nations,
who think themselves wife because their
plans are intricate. It cannot be ufeful
for America to be noticed at present in
Europe, otherwise than by her good sense:
She (hould grow to greatness like the trees
of her wilderness, in the midd of silence
and retreat. Nothing can check her po
pulation depending npon a facility of sub
sidence; or oppress herdrength springing
from numbers, situation and knowledge.
If Europe docs not treat America with
wisdom, America would do ill, to copy
the weak example of those whom the dif
ciphne of experience has not been able to
indraft. She has the peculiar happiness
of being able to (hape hercourfe free from
the influence of her own errors, and those
of others; beginning, where all nations
may be happy to end."
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, February 22.
By a passenger in the (hip Sampson
from the Ead-Indies, now on her way in
to this harbor, we learn that the English
have taken Pondichery from the French,
and that the French have taken from the
English 14 fail of vessels, one of which is
an Ead Indiman.
By a gentleman from Montferat we are
informed, that the English, in pursuance
of their indru&ions, have revived, or con
sider as now exiding, the laws of Lewis
XVI. respecting trade, and that in conse
quence they seize and make prize of all
American veflels, carrying the property
of the French Islands, contrary to those
laws. They place their own frigates to
guard the trade, in lieu of the Revenue
Cutters under the old establishment. By
this pra&ice, sugar, coffee, and many o
ther articles become contraband, liable to
fcizure and confifcation, and they also ren
der the veflel and whole cargo feizable.
Extras from LoycTs Lifl —London.
Arrived at Clyde.
December 1. Alkmonack, Derby, from
Virginia.
John and Jane, from New-York arrived
at Liverpool.
December 1. Union, Whitlock, from
New-York.
Dec. jth, Active, Seaman, from ditto
arrived at Dover.
Dec. Bth, Ohio, Kamp, from New-
York.
Hannah, Hanault, from Boflon, arri
ved at Greenock.
Dec. i oth, Bald Eagle,
Virginia.
Arrived at Deal.
Dec. I ith, Major Pinckney,Grice,from
Charleston.
Arrived at Lilbon.
Walhington, Dekay, from New-York.
The Commerce, Tyrie, from London,
to Bermuda, is taken by the Galatea, a
French frigate, and carricd into Brest—
three other veffelt are taken by the fame
frigate.
Boston, Feb 17.
TOWN meeting.
At a legal, and very numerous meet
ing of the inhabitant! of Bolton at Fa
nueil Hall: Thursday, the 13th day ol
February, A. 1). 1794. Thos. Crafts,
Elq. Moderator.
The town, agreeable to the request of
a number of inhabitants, deeply concern
ed in the prosperity of our Trade in ge
neral, and the Carrying Trade in particu
lar, took into consideration thi» highly
interelting fubjedt, and what ought to be
the mealure which (hould belt express the
sentiments of the town thereon, and af
ter a candid and free discussion of the
fubjeft, came into the following resolu
tions, with scarcely a diflenting vote.
Resolved, That in the opinion of the
inhabitants of this town, the Carrying
Trade is of the highest importanee to the
(trength, wealth, and independence of the
United States.
Resolved, That a committee be ap
pointed to consider and report the state of
the trade at large, and to prepare resolu
tions for the town's consideration, respec
ting the effedts which certain restrictions
laid on the trade of America, by Euro
pean nations have on the fame, and also
to report such resolutions as may have a
proper influence on our representatives in
Congress, to induce the passing such atts
as may tend to guard, protect, and regu
late the American commerce in general.
Voted, That Thomas Crafts, Esq.
Moderator, Charles Jarvis, Esq. Perez
Morton, Esq. Samuel Brown, Esq. John
Coffin Jones, Esq. James Sullivan, Esq.
Joseph Blake, Esq. Benjamin Austin, jun.
Esq. Capt. Nathaniel Fellowes, William
Little, Esq. Thomas RulTell, Esq. Wil
liam Ell it is, Esq. Leonard Jarvis, Esq.
Mr. Jefle Rutnam, and JohnCodman,Efq.
be a Committee for the purpose aforefaid.
Then the Meeting adjourned to Mon
day the 24th inft. 10 o'clock in the mor-
mug.
WILLIAM COOPER, Town-CM.
From Cokrespoi/dnts.
A paragraph in a late paper afiured us,
that the Protestant religion wa3 gaining
ground fait in France. Read the News
papers, and find the confirmation of this
fable, which was expected to make dupes
of us. Is the (hutting up churches pub
licly burning the bible, murdering many
priests, and abolishing the salaries of the
remainder any proof that our form of
worship gains ground there ? The worlhip
of reason, and of the goddess liberty in
the peifon of a handsome wench, the sup
pression of the sabbath, and its rights, res
toring the memory of a blasphemer of
Jesus Christ as an injured philosopher
Is this religion !
What man of the least feeling, would
not rejoice in the idea that every grain of
fait which relished his food, was in a de
gree instrumental in relieving some of his
fellow-citizens from Algerine captivity ;
and yet out Congress have refufed their
consent to an additional duty of 3 cents
per bu(hel. Good Heavens ! are gentle
men so afraid of their popularity as not to
rifle a vote for so small a tax on the whole
community for foufeful a purpose ! but ra
ther than consent to it, the merchants who
already pay the whole revenues of the
country, are to be saddled with an addi
tional tonnage upon their (hipping, molt
of which at this moment appears to be de
tained in foreign ports, unclaimed or un
proteftcd by their country.
CONGRESS.
Houje of Rrprcffntativei.
Monday, Feb. 24.
Pursuant to the request of the Secre
tary of the Treasury, as expreflcd in a
letter to the house some time since, a mo
tion Was brought forward this day by Mr
Giles, for the appointment of a commit
tee to enquire into the tranfa&ions of the
Treasury department ; with this motion
was conne&ed a series of inftru&ions to
be observed by the committee in conduc
ing the enquiry.
■, from
The time was taken up m difcufling
these inftruftions, which, after some alte
rations, were agreed to.
A committee of fifteen members was
then appointed.
A meflage was received from the Presi
dent of the United States, communicating
extra&s from letters lately received from
the American Minister in London— copy
of a letter from the British Secretary of
State, to the British minister plenipotenti
A tuft.
One Hundred Dollars,
IS hereby offered by the Prcfidcnt and Diiec
tors of thr Bank ol the United Siaitj, to any
person who fliall, on rtr beime the fiift day 0 f
May next, pioduce 10 tnein such a plan and re
lation of a Hanking H< ufr, as lhall be appiovrd
ol by them.—A plain, yet handlome iron* i<
desired : The whole building it lo be fnbliantul
and commodious with as much (pace around 11
as th? fizc of the gt<>und will admit.
ary to the United Statci, relative to a
Commerci ;1 Treaty. Alio,
A letter fom McfTrs. Carmichael and
Short, the American miitifter at Madrid.
1 hefe communication! being announced
as confidential, when the reading of them
was railed for, the galleries were cleared.
Yeflerday arrived in town from Baltimore,
three waggons, supposed to contain money,
and the effe&s of the minister of France. The
carriages were guarded by a party ot the Bal
timore Volunteer Dragoons.
Married, on Thursday Is!!, by th e
Rev. Dr. Uftick, Mr. Stephen Page to
Miss Maria Henderfon. A!fo, Mr. Fre
deric Wing, to Miss Agnes Page, all ot
this city.
Died, on Wednesday lad, Mrs. Sarah
Sellers, confoit of Mr.' William Seller*,
Printer, of this city.
SHIP N EWS.
PORT
ARRIVED.
Ship Adriana, Robertfon, St.Sebastian, 4a days
Richmond, JLee, Buurdcaux, 63
Edward, Crandan, Russia, 161
Apollo, Fitzpatrick, Amdcrdam, 90
Andromache, Moore, Liverpool, 88
Brig Hannah, Batton, do. ;o
lUbella and Ann, Hampton, N. York, 8
Neptune, Nickclls, Alexandria, '11
Molly, Mercer, Oporto, 70
Schr. tndufli y, Wallington, Port au Prince, 21
Neptune, Corry, St. Marc, 30
Sloop Sally, Edger, Bermuda*,
Dolphin, Shariklin, Jamaica
Nancy, Denicke, New-York, a 8
Farmer, Arnold, do. 4
Hetty, Wallace, do. 4
Cynthia, Watson, do. 8
Salem, Elkint. do. 8
Most of these vessels lay below a week or
two.
The (hip Fame, Capt. Sims, of Philadelphia,
has arrived at New-York, from the East-Indie*.
after a long voyage of two years and fix months.
She is very richly laden.
Captain Corry, of the Neptune, in 20 days
from St. Marc, informs, that the (hip Hanni
lial, ol Philadelphia, had been carried into that
port by a Britilh cruiser, having been taken on
her passage from Amsterdam.
The Blip Sally, Capt. Wiekes, of Ph:ladcU
phia, was loading for Hamburg.
The brig Pomona, Capt. King, of Philadel
phia, wascarried into the Mole by a privateer.
Capt. Moore, of the Androtna< he, spoke the
following veflels on his paflage from Liverpool.
* v '"- 'J, the (hip Mary, Capt. Gardner, fiom
Virginia to Cork, in latitude 49, 54, lon».
!)n the 24th, in lat. 47, 21, long. 25, the brig
\.ftive, Capt. M'Kever, from Philadelphia to
tmflerdam, out 14 days. And, on the 29th
9«. in lat. 43, long .jj, tke Ihip Volunteer,
:apt. Johnfton, from Virginia to talmouth.
There lay at Liverpool, Nof. 8,
Ship Lydia, Drummond, for New-York
Rofanna, Clark de
York, Norton <jo
Rebecca, 0
Fortitude, of Charlellon, for Boston
for C-harlcllon
The (now Venus, of Norfolk, failed on the
Bth : The brig Fanny and Betsey, and schooner
Sally, for Virginia, were to have failed on the
9th, with the brig Eliza for New York.
Lilt of American Veflels at Bermuda,
January 16, communicated by Capi.
Edgcr, of the sloop Sally.
Brig Suky, Earle of Charleftnn
Bedloid, Chipman,
a brig belonging to Rocky Hill
Sch. Willing Maid, Wallace, N. Hav. n
Barbara, White, Baltimute
Friendlllip, Stoiy, Philadelphia
Swallow, Kinfinan, Newbury P.
, Ryan,
Sloop Polly, Smith,
Sally, Hefs,
Two Ragufan vdfeis, a (hip and brig,
were also at Bermuda.
Fbe fliip Eliza, of Baltimore) lay at
Bourdtaux the 9th December.
Wanted to Charter,
£iL A VESSEL
tjfgggSg of 1000 Barrels burthen.
Enquire of
JOHN CRAIG.
Fch. 24, 1794; dtf
A RECOMPENSE OF
The Lot on which the building is to be erect
ed, is fhuatcd on ihc weft fid; of Thnd-ftrect
betwcea Chcfnut and W'alnut-ftrcc's in Phila
delphia ; and its dimenfior>» aie no feet o»
Third-Hrett, and about 100 feet wr ft ward.
THOMAS WILLING, Prefidrftf.
•o? 3*.
Boston
Philadelphia
dittoJAMES LEACH,
RESPF.CTFUI.LY inforttu hit (rirndi «"d
the public, Th«t from the enrouragen»e*«
he hat icceived, from several refpeflable Gentle
men. he is indnccd onee more, tocmbaik iufhc
PAPF.R LlNE—and would offer his fir-vires <0
all thofc Gentlemen, who can place confidence
in him ; and h afTures those who employ lii'ii,
thai th' ir confidcjice Oiall not be mifplaee.'
but it shall be his conllant endeavor, to pay Hie
ftrilh ft attention to thnr heft interest, in all pe
cociltinni whatever. He has taken the Chamber,
in X'ate-Street, over Mr. David 1 own fend, Watch
Shop.——Where PUBLIC >>KCURI-
TlhS, of all kinds, are bought and fold ; and
wheif CoinmilTion Bufniefs of all kinds. will be
tranfrfted on reasonable terms. HOL'ShS and
VESSELS will be constantly expofrd lor laic, on
commiflion.
• • Cacti paid for Salein, Providence, and
Fori (mouth BILLS.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
Ken-York, has any Bujinefs to tranfaff at Hoflon,
ifi Pai>er Negotiations, he will be happy t» be em
ployed on commijfion.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nth day of April next,
atthchoufe of 'John Thontfon> in Perth-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
1N THAT CITY.
THE Lot contains eleven acief, on which is
an orchard of grafted apple t;ecs, a well of
ex eel I en', water, a large (lone c .Acini, and a very
commodious (table and coach-houfc, and a great
quantity of the baft building (tones in the walls
of the house, which was formerly built for the
refiHence of the Governors of New-Jtrfey. The
fttu;itior. of this Lot is so weli known lor us
heaiihmrfs and beautiful profpeft of the Rariton
river to the weft of the bav, and Sandy-Hook »o
the east, that a further defe. iption is unm ceflarv.
The conditions of fait will be, one third of the
purchase money <o be paid on the firft day of
May next, when a good and fufficicnt Deed will
be nven to the put chafer', by Waltsr Ru
therfurd, fcfq. Pi?fide«| of the Board of
Proprietors of the Eallern Division of New-
J..]'(cv, nnd the remaining two thirds faiisfa&o
nly fecurcd in equal annual payments.
By order of the Board,
JAMFS PARKER, Rrgifter.
Perth-Amboy, February 5, 1 794. sawcrti
War Department.
January 3oth 1794.
INFORMATION is lieieuy given to all the
military invalids of the United States,that the
iums to which they areeuitled for fix months
of their annual penflon, fiom the fourih day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on Ihe sth da-y of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the C6mm>fl»oners of the Loans
wi'hin the states rclpe&ivcly, under the usual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
niutt be accompanied with legal evidence of
their reC|K&v*e offices, and alio of the time the
invalids dfcd, whose penfmn they m*y claim.
By cunimatta «f thr PrVfld nt
of the Uwted Stairs,
H. KNOX,
Secretary of IVar.
(Pr The printers in she refptdive states are
rcqucftcd to publifo the abwcin iheir newfpa
prrs tor the space of iwo months.
January 30,
JUST PUBLISHED,
AN'II ma SALf. BY
M. Carey, No. 118,Higb-Jireet,
The PROMPTER•
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
Sknsf., the bejifenfe in the world.
TH IS little book is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all claffcs ot people, merchants, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
woik acquired, that it h*s parted thro three itn
prcrtionsin the eailern states, and many houle
holders deem !t so ufeful as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theii families.——Price 2s.
February 4. M
Notice is hereby given,
the fubferiber has been duly ap-
X pointed Adminiflratrix on the estate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herlelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law directs—and all persons in
tercfted, are defmd to take notice actord
ingljr.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
Take Notice.
ALL persons who have any demand* against
(he Eftat<- of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the Subscriber, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who stand indebted to said Estate, are
requeued to fettle with him immediately; as the
Ast of Limitation of Actions, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
otherwise render it necefTary for him to com
mence suits against: them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requested to insert this in their
re'fpeftive newspapers, and forward their ac
counts lor the fame, to J. M
NO R R I S-C OU R T,
Hack of the New Library, between Chefnut
and Walnut-Streets.
George Rutter,
Respectfully informs hit friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the hufineft of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL ATES,
for doors or \vindow-iliutters,donfc in tiic tuoft
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended t*».
Decenibrr 30, dtf
]uft Imported,
From l*ondon, Dublin and Glasgo/t,
And now opening for 'ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
j4t No. 118, Market Jlreety
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following
NE W Annual Register for 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester society, 3 vol*.
PrieftJy on matter and spirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty,a collection of eflays
Varieof Pruflia's woi ks
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
Ruttell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extra<sts of natural history
Sangnier and Briflon's vorage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflb's Jerusalem delivered
SineMie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's hifloi y of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
Hiltory of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's dictionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
I inlay's description of Kentucky
Pre fen t state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hud lon's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on phyftognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
Kifftfs of Secuirdus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's rnins of empire*
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialifin and immaterialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic. travelers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of V oltaire
De Non's travels
Franklfri's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwrn on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols*
Helvetius on man
Kajmes's sketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
R.everies of solitude
Smith's theory of moral fentimenU
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life Of Philip lid. & Illd.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
WaJhs on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
d«m
Cox's travels into Denmark,RufGa,Poland,See.
Cox's travoJs into Switzerland
Rabant's hiftary of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&ice of mid
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
Cleghom's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
£)uiricy's d.fpenfatbry
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma r
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind On the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's diflertations
London practice of physic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
FOR SALE,
By MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Market-Street,
An EfTay on Slavery:
Defigntid to exhibit in a new point of view,
its eife&s on morals, induflry % and the peace of
ocicty. Some fa&s and calculations are ottered
to prove the labor of freemen to be much more
productive than that ot Jlaves ; that countries air
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor ; and hence the mccflaiy conclusion, that
(lav«ry is impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price Cents.
February 15.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York
THE Subfciiber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, btgs leave to of
fir his Cervicesto his friends and others, in the
line ol a Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the uimoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will he ftri&ly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
Phi lade lphia, February 13, 1794.
PROPOSALS
For printing by Subscription,
A Work, to be entitled,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Petinfylvania State Trials.
THE want of luffidcnt information of the
state trials ot G»eai-Britain in the early
periods of that government is now lamented :
Hi herto there hail) been but one trial in the
state of Pennsylvania on impeachment :—and
herealfo it :s to be regretted, that, being neg
lected at the time, the public are now left with
out fufficient information on the fnbjedfc of that
trial, it is however in this work deftgned to ref
.cuefwhatcan be col left ed thereof from foutces
of indifputaple authority, f 0 that the fame shall
be preserved from oblivion.
Another impeachment and the second is now
depending. An officer is charged by the late
Honfc of Representatives, who hath for many
year® been largely confided in by this state, and
hath long b< en at the head of the financial de
partment of the fame, and it imports the citi
zens to know his conduct, and the circumstances
which may be brought forward on his trial.
lathis work the Editor will be careful to
state the fa&s, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers before
the public.—With this view—
The following Terms are refpeflfully
submitted to the Public :
I. The Work (hall be printed in o&avo, with a
good type, on fine paper, and delivered to
fubferibers at the refpeftive places where the
sub' riptions are taken in, as soon as the work
(hall be compleated.
11. As no eonje&ure can well be made, as to
the length as the present trial, the fir.e of the
volume cannot be ascertained at this time—
But the price ftiall not excced that of fomeof
the latest publications in this city.
111. It will contain all the preliminaries and in'
cidental circumstances that may occur durin*
the trial of John Nicholfon, Esquire, Comp
troller-General of this commonwealth, with
thearguments of counsel on both (ides, together
with the articles of impeachment, and the
pleas and replications at large, the several re
solutions of the two branches of the state Le
gislature, refpefting this impeachment, and
the final dectfion of the SENATE refpe&ing
that officer.
To which will be prefixed, as much as can be
colle&ed from authentic documents, of the im
peachment, trial, and aequital of the late Francis
Hopkinfon, Esquire, Judge of the Court of
Admiralty for the state of Pinnfylvania, during
the late war, never before pnblifhed.
No money will be required before the deli
very of the book.
Subscriptions will be received by Francis
Bdiley, No. 116, High-street; Wrigley and Ber
riman, No. 149, Chefnuuftreet, and by the dif
ferent booksellers in this city; Jacob Bailey*
Lancaftcr ; Yundt and Paiton, Baltimore, and
by the Editor.
EDMUND HOGAN.
N. B. The price will be enhanced to non
fHbfcribers. Feb. 18. taw : f
City Commiflioners Office,
January 30, 1794.
IN pursuance of a Refolvt ot the Common
Council, dated the 20th day of January,
1794, for dividing the City into five Diftri&s,
by hnes drawn East and Weft, whereof each of
the City Commiflioners is to take the fuperin
tendance of one of the said Diftri&s, and to be
accountable lor the cleansing, good order and
regularity of the fame.
The Coinmiffioners have accordingly made
the following arrangement tor the prefer* :
DiJliiQ the xjt. Nathan Boys, to have the
charge of that part of the flreets, lanes and aileya
from Ccdar-ftreet, to the north fide of Spruce
ftieet-
DiJtriQ the td. Hugh Roberts, from thr north
fide of Spruce-ftrecl to the north fide of Walnut
facet.
Diflriß the 3d. Joseph Claypoole, from the
north fide of Walnut to the south tide of High
ftreet.
DiJlriS the 4M. William Moulder, frim the
north fide of High, to the north fide of Mulbttry
street.
Dijlritl the sth. Nicholas Hicks, from the
north fide of Mulberty, to the rtonh fide of Vine
street.
Extraßfrom the Minutes,
JOHN MEASE, CM.
N B. The carriage way in Market-street, is
under the charge ot ti»c Commilßoners generally,
for the prefrnt, the foot-ways on »br north and
south fides thereof, are connc&ed with tb* ad
joining Diftri&i rcfpedivcly.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogf»eads and in calea of bottles rath.
a l < o,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. tit, soultl FlOUla.ilCCi
Jan. a, 1794.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegantHoufe,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation,—also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
iff the city, in fixe or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23.
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States was lately printed. The Fount
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
Jamaica,^
An AS for giving validity in this Island It
Probates to be taken, ly striata Officers
in the United States of America, of D'eds
to be there executed, and also to Exempli
fications of Wills there proved.
WHEREAS, since the reparation from the
crown of Great-Britain of the late co
lonies} now called the United States of Ame
rica, great inconveniences have arisen to many
of his Majesty's fubjefts occasionally refilling
in those States, for want of a lega! provilion
refpecHng the probates and acknowledgments
of deeds executed in the said States, and in
tended to operate in this island : For remedy
whereof, we, your Majesty's dutiful and lovil
fubjedts, the Lieutenant-Governor, Council,
and Afiembly of this your Maiefly's island of
Jamaica, humbly beseech your Majesty that
it may be enafled ; Be it therefore enacted,
and it is hereby ena&ed and ordained by the
authority of the fame, That, from and im
mediately after the palling of this acl, any
conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed
whalfoever, which shall be hereafter executed
in any of the United States of America, and
(hall be proved by a fubl'cribing witness, or
acknowledged by the party or parties, before
any of his Majesty's Coniuls or Vice-Consult
residing in any of those Statue, or before the
Chief Justice of any of the said States, or be
fore the Chief Justice or any of the Judges of
the Supreme Court of the (aid United States,
and certified under the seal of any of the said
States, or the seal of the said United States,
shall be, and the fame is hereby declared to
be, as good and efl'e&ual in the law as if such
■conveyance, letter of attorney, or other deed,
had been refpeitively proved pi acknowledged
before a Judge of any court of record in this
island ; any law, custom, or usage, to the con
trary notwithstanding : —Provided always,
That in all cases wherein the right or properly
of any woman under coverture is intended
to be conveyed, (he (hall be examined separate
and apart from her husband, by the Judge
who attests the probate, and the said examina
tion (hall be certified in like manner & is prac*
tifed in Great-Britain or in this Island.
11. And be it further en»£led by the autho
rity aforefaid, That the probate'of any lift
will and testament, taken before any ciflierr
authorized to take probates of wills in any of
the said States, and exemplified under the
fcal of the State where such probate (hall have
been taken, (hall be, and the fame is hereby
declared to be, as good and effeilual in tire
law, as if such probate had been taken before
the ordinary of this island ; any law, cuiicm,
or usage, to the contrary in any wife notwith-
Itanding.
PaJJedthe AJfembly this tltb day of Novem
ber, 179.1.
WILLIAM BLAKE, Speaker.
faffed the Council, this nth November, rjai.
G. ATKINSON, CI. Council.
I consent, this 6tb December, 1793.
ADAM WILLIAMSON.
Vera copia extur.
G. Atkiwson, See.
*„* The American Printers are requeued
to publish thisa<ft in their several newfpaperj.
Proposals having been publijhed lafl
autumn, for continuing the Gazette f tit
United States as an half weekly paper, in
conjunction v/ith a daily paper, frequent ap
plications (pojhge unpaid) are. made by per
fans at a dtflance for the former —but as the
terms proposed on lhat occcfton were not com
pried with, the plan if an half ■weel'y paper
is rtlinqui/hed. .
Cy As the Editor has repeatedly lee a
fubjeSed to pojlage on the Letters of persons,
• who have in that way applied to purcbafe
the Fount of Long Primer -which he Las
for fule —those who wish to buy thtfe types,
are informed that the price is twenty cents
per pound, cafb —to be paid at their delive
ry—the fount weighs about 250 ft,.
. PHILADELPHIA:
PmxTtD by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
/
m&th—tf