EVEN I N G
[No. 100 of Vol. V.]
For Nor folk & Fredericksburgh,
sajlly,
JohS Eau, Matter.
&*. apply ife the
attWfira-iit Cttefnut ftrtet wtuuf; or
*° - -jfl**/'# Jmrmptr y J»J&
• «<»***■ , dtf -
For Sale or Charter,
ANDROMACHE,
(An American bottom )
- - "John Moore, Majier.
IS a ft out good veflfel, about two years old,
burthen 2 a 2 too-, has only madr three voy
«eS anil may be -eat to sea at a fnuIII ex
pcmV She n.av be fee,, at V)ne-ft. e et wharf,
and the terur. ."Me known to
H'HA'ITON & LEIVIS-
Marchltj 111
For Amsterdam,
fafl-failine, coppcr
bottomed SHIP
mm adriana,
ftjT' " ' K. Fitzpatrick, Master.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in
tended for a Liverpool Trader, will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight or palfage,
having excellent accommodations, apply on
board at Walnut street wharf, or ;®
rr-rtr.C Crf WU« Vff-Yt JD.
ltreti.
THOS. 'd JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Paflengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794-
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. Fitzpatrick,
from Amlkrdam, and now landing
on WaJant-ftrett wharf, viz.
■
Ditto Oe./taburgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glass il'urc, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, -va
rious fn.es.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, square and flat bars,
Ha:r Ribband, No. 4.
Dutch Great Coats,
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, &c. ySf.
FOR SALE BY
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
The above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
fboulJapplication be made within a few days ;
other-wife Jhe will take freight for Amjler
dam.
March 1, <I—tf
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegantHoufe,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an enable fituAtion,—-alio a Country Seat'
within 6 iniLs of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by in any in the vicmit
of the city, in size or convenience. --
For terms apply to t'ne
23-
January 23. m&th—tt
The Profits arifingfrom t t following publi
cation are for the benefit of the Poor.
Just publilhed, printed by R. Aitken and
Son, and fold by J. Cruklhank, W. Young
T. Dobfon, and the other Booksellers,
MINUTES
OF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed on the 14th September i 793, by
the Citizens of Philadelph a, the Northern
Liberties, andthe Diftrift of* Soutluvark,
to attend to and alleviate the fufferings of
the afflicted with the Malignant Fever,pre
valent, in the City and its vicinity.
WITH AN APPENDIX,
CONTAINING
Aliftof persons admitted into the Hospi
tal at Bufh-hiN, Ihewing th* times of their
admission, death and discharge.
Number of Houses, Deaths, &c. in the
refpettive streets, alleys, and courts in the
c tyof Philadelphia, Northern Liberties, an 4
Diftrlift of Southwark.
A lift of the Intements in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelphia* Northern
Liberties, and Diftrift of Souihwark, with a
meteorological account of the weather.
A furnmary of donations in cafli and provi
sions, received from funry persons and pla
ces* for the uOof the poor and afflitted.
April 2. d3w
*y. YJ •». . V
of At Itnifed ffc
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
superior quality in p«pc«, imported in the ihip
Wil/nington,
OLD SHERRY WINE of the firft quality
in quarter caflcj, imported in the brig Nancy
capt. Gvvjn. fir >m Cadiz
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of
RAISINS, imported in ditto.
Particular TENERIFFE WINES,in pipes
hhck. and quarter calks, imported in the Ihip
T"onias, capt. Skinner.
A few quarter calks of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade,
Aflortment of Hanging Papef.
higb cnl&ured and plain.
White fi!k Stocking*, high drtlfed and pu
up tifhioo.
Th°liandfomeft artificial Ftowersand Fea
hers.
Some Looking Glass Plates to be fold by the
afei
Afjw hampers of Champai&ne wine fix,
years old.
ALSO,
An elegant parcel of
Rearikin MulTs,
And very beaariful S'lk Cloaks, which on
account of the l-o.u.i will Lc iold low, and as
a lon£ credit.
**•-- . HMy if
NORRIS- COURT,
Back ot' the New i.Miry, between Chefuut
and Walni ;-Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY; nt'ornn his friends and
the public ill general, that he continues
carrying on the business of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likewise, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
tor doors or wiudo\v-ihuUers,don£ in the mo ft
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December go, dtf
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commifiions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, fecondyear of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
(March 6th, 1794, o. s.)
The Mimfter Plenipotentiary of theErench
Republic.' JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are requested to republifli the
foregoing notice. d
Mordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street:—
A few Bales ot Ruftia Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A bale of low-priced Cotton Handkerchiefs,
A Quantity ot Souchong Tea, Hyson and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland Gin in Cases,
A Quantity of Brtmftone,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. 204 3'aw6w
ni&th—tf
Tuesday, April 8, £794-
FOR SALE,
Who has alib) just arrived and for i»Jfc
A smal'l cargo of
Lijbon Salt.
A quantity at" empty BAGS Tor
April 5. diw w&sim.
Imported
hi the Brig George and Harriott from
Havre de Grace,
AND FOR SALE BY
Louis Ofmont,
A PERFECT
-i-rry-ii,- ;th
42 pipes Madeira wine,
and a few caiks of Claret.
A Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
He zjill have for sale,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn hats,, fans and camb ricks, claret in
cases, a quantity of window glass well sort
ed ot* aJ] size , and a few pair of remarkable
Loo!c/»g Glares framed, ail arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
March 22. ' dtf
A N I>
ADVERTISER.
Excellent CLARET,
la hog I'* cads and in cafcs ot 50 bottles cach.
A.lso,
A few cases Champaigne Wine j
MADEIRA,
nonyraous correspondent.l
Obfervuig the public mind much agita
ted on account of the rccent captures of
American vessels in the Weft. Indies, and
having but just returned frotli thensp. I
beg leave to lay before them a eoncife llate
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Kills of ment of the cafe.
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty I understand it has been declared, that
Dollar Bills of the Bank of iXorth America, all vessels trading under American colours,
several of which have appeared in circulation whetber t0 Frt . nch islands or elsewhere,
wit .in a few c ayspaji, lu.y me u goo g. ma J e prize* of, and carried into Bri
wral imitation of the genuine Bills, out may * . T a « » .
be diftingai/hed by the following tnh ports. This a must flatly deny; and,
M A R K S. as a prooi of the faliity of the I
Frue Dollar Bill■ of the £a„t 'of the necd onl >- ' nenti ° n the }
United States. came mylelf, and a number of others jult
ALL that have appeared havj the letter F. arrived with full cargoes. The realcaufe
for their Alphabetical Mark. of the captures alluded to, wis au unjuli
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and trad <- carriea Qn Wlth the bbckS) fQr she
whUc-r and it takes the inx more freely than v » r c _ rr *
the g«?puitie paper plunder of the unfortunate iufrerers in the
The O. m the word Company is lmaller French ifiands ; a trade which mull even
than the M. and other letters of that word, tuafly have operated to the utter ruin of
so th<t a line extended front ihe tapof the O, the real proprietors, As a corroboration
TO touch the t»p of the M wotiid extend con- rf fact it w recolle( r t(;d t} lat
ficteiably above the range oi the whole word. , J '
In the word United the kttars are narrow- ™ er f are at moment two or thtee Vet
era r>d closer together than Uiw reft yf the bill fels in Jamaica, wlijch were taken, laden
The i and fin the word promiie are not with (laves ptlrchafed at ten pounds per
paral'el, the f inclining much njore forward head. The British, willing tci prevent sb
than the J. deftru&ive a traffic, publiflifcd a manifelto,
The engraving is badly executed,i he ltrokes r ..... n • r •
of all the Letter:, are stronger and the devi e forbidding all intercoUrle whatever with
in rhe margin particularly ismuch coarser and the blacks, or people of colour, tinder pain
appears darker than in the true bills. Some of forfeiture both of ve'fTcl and taigai In
el the counterfeits be ar date in >791— Where- the cafe of Martinique, it is tleedlefs to fay
as the Ea.ik was not 111 operation til! Decern- ,< . rpi „ c • ... r
ber, ,„d no five dollar bills were .2ued in a . n y ,h,n §' 1 c " Rom of natX ' nS ' ""fj
ihat ytar. tl,tie immemorial; has prevented neutral
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North vessels from entering ports ,in a itate of
America. siege, and more particularly ifiands, the
corififcation of the property certainly fok
lowing the transgression on the neutral
Let me then, Americans, after conG
dering the fubje& fairly and candidly, re
collecting that no infuh has yet been of
fered to your Flag, nor hindrance to your
fair trade; but, on the contrary, that the
umbrage has feally and bona fide been
given by a few individuals grasping at
riches, however dithoneft the means to ob
tain them 5 and who, in that pursuit, have
not only violated the laws of nations but *
of humanity itfelf. Let me then ask
tinder these circumstances, and considering
how vety trifling the ohjeft appears Vihen
fairly viewed, whether the bleflings of
peace which we enjoy, and which alone
can ensure profpertty to a commercial
country, ought to be hazarded for the ru
inous and uncertain chance of war ? And
for. what ? To support a few imprincJpled
ship-owners in a traffic the most unjust
ever attempted ! To do which you are
not only about to facirifice the landed in
terest totally, but, as the state of wai 1 ro?y
determine, perhaps the lives and fortunes
of your citizens also.
For the Ga2ljtW of the Unitsd Sjatss.
Mr. Fikno,
The inclosed impromptu, was never
prtfented to any Printer before—but ,i*
the ftrft impromptu, I wlote, on feeing a
pie<;e in your paper of March 25, 1794,
1 aftenyards 1 wrote two mori, one, 911
that piece said to be taken from Davids
Virginia Gazette ; and the other on Joljri
Adams's vote—the truth is } I never sept
' those pieces to any Printer, before I did
to Mr. Oswald, but I thdugfit the preface
which I sent to him, would make people
read my verses. So I took a fort of poe
tic*! license, and said as I did,you can fee
the piece in Oswald's Paper,of April sth,
which I will) yo.u would pyblifti, as I find
it pleases people prodigiou/ly. I take jt,
a'n impromtu, upon which a poet studies
' a great wliile,ni3f be more correct,but Ido
f not believe it can have more genius in It,
5 than one written off hand, a 6 a body may
fay ; now this impromtu, which I
- yoa, is one of the last description, those
' two in Oswald's were ftudicd and blottgd
out, according to Horace's rule in his Ars
Poetics.
In pipe&> hoglheads and quarter caiks,
FOR SALE BY
No. in, Sooth Front itreei.
ft". *, 1794
The Public are cautioned to
Aliia ffc«t h»<re *pj*»rfdh«v« iMi feU«r
■jM. in* thei* tmrfe. •
*"■ TUy wi ?»«►*«■■» Miipii JMMMU feltte
V
to that of the counterfeit F y »ve Dolla> Notes
above described j the engraving is bfite> exe
cuted, -and they approach nearer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through ihe word Tuen
ty\ in the body of the bill, ar? >n number thir
teen in the genuine b lis* and but tweive in
the counterfeits. v
The word Company is like the Came
word in the Five Dollar B Us <>s defer ibed a
b >ve, the o being lets than the m y and others
following.
There is no stroke to the / in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The letters entin the word Tucnt)± to the
left hand at the bottom* do not come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tzo and '-hey go
>ng below them.
The Signature J Nixon, has the appear
ance of being written with lamp-black and
oil, and differs from the ptber inksufedin
printing the bills and the cashier's iignattrre.
It is supposed these forgeries were committed
in forae ot ihe Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come from
thence, and two persons ha>te been apprehend
ed in Virgiuia, on suspicion of being the authors
of them.
The reward of ONE THOU&AND DO
will be paid to any Person or J'eifona who ihall
discover and prosecute to convi£bou the several
offenders of the following defcuptions or any
ot them, viz.
The person or persons, who .manufactured
the paper on which the Bills arc printed.
The person or persons, wbo engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, <»f the tyfWs.
Every person who has a&cd as a principal in
any other way, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the (aid bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Pieftdcnt
of the Bank United $!*<*•
JOHN NIX.QN., Piefideniof the
Bank of North America.
By order of ttie oi the Ref
pe&ive Boards.
Philadelphia, March .'B, i 794. dtf.
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118,
Maiket-Street,
An Efiay on Slavery,
Defined to exhibit in a new point ot view
its eftefts on mor.il>, jnduflry, aod ihe peace of
feciety. Some (afls and calculations are offeied
to prove ihe labor of freemen to be much more
productive than that ot Jlmes ; that countrns arr
rich, powerful and happy, in .propojtmn a< the
laboring people mj'iy the fruu» of their own
labor ; and hence the n'Ce{faiy conclusion, thai
slavery is impolitic as well as iLftjuji.
PKict 25 Cents.
Februaiy 14. <M
/ear of
ndivifible
the
the
JOHN VAUGHAN,
i '• » '•(
dtf
fate
[Whole No. 559. J
UNITED STATES.
CHARLESTON, (S. C.) March 19.
r Ttie following letter, iiddreiTcd to the
Printers, has been received from au a
nonyraous correspondent.l ' 1
>©
IMPROMPm 1
Virgin—i—a, Virgin—i—-a,
What cap 1 do, what tan 1 fay ?
My wit doth himc, my pride is hit,
My pride alas, cats up my wit;
What; f. nd our brats, to Yankey's towns, |
To learn (good God, blood,fire & zounds)
Virtue I Ah ! hah ! and not to swear,
To visit churches ? I declare,
Fine times, to learn to read, not drink,
To learn morality, and how to think,
To learn fubmifiion, modesty ?
No, damme, that (hall never be.
From, all our vail, our old dominion,
To banish each young ilarving minion,
.Learn him to read, by fear of rod,
To keep his word, and worlhip God ?
Republicans, learn such vile tralh ?
No, np, thro' thick and thin they'll dalh,
Drink, garpe, swear, lie ; and lay they'll
nght wifii sword,
But are 100 much of gentlemen, to keep
their word.
Why flionld our children better than their
fathers be ?
Thus far I wrote my firft impromtu,
and after I looked it ovei, I thought I
could write a better one, so I fat down
and wrote two and sent them to Mr. Os
wald, as I said before, and as it took me
so long to blot and write and write and
blot, I thought such a preface as 1 sent
him neeeffary to make folks read it, and
also to shew, that all the time from the
date to printing, was not taken up in
writing, but in diiappointments by the
obstinacy of Printers. But finding how
very well people like those two perform
ances, (especially the Virginians) I am
induced to bring to light this last impromp
tu, not last in writing but last in appear
ance—As to A ms, and A s, I
wilh they would.read this, and those two
impppmptues, and then let them make
more stories about learning the youth of
Virginia virtue, if they dare They will
find hard work to make either the young
or the old in Virginia believe them, and
besides their politics (hall be lalhed a little
more by my poetry if they do not mind,
pye, and mend too, for I hear they are
Loth againll a war wilh Great Britain.
A SUBSCRIBER.
March 7thj 1794.
N. B. I wilh you could print those
pieces, preface, &c. of mine from Os
wald's paper, that people may have one
view of the whole : This impromptu is
more like the Pindaric, a little irregular,
but those other two are perfectly ruleable,
and are what they call Hexameter, or
Pentameter—l forget which.
m the Independent
From a Correspondent.
T''ie inclosed Impromtu and explanatory
Introduction have been presented to
more than one Printer of a Daily Pa
per in this C -y, and met with such a
strange reception as induced the Au
thor to fuppufe them of fufficient im
poitar.ee to be presented at lead to the
view of Virginians : They are now
tranfinitted to you for publication, with
a wish that they may appear in your
A SUBSCRIBER.
The following lines were written on
feeing in Fenno's paper of this evening,
a piece said to be from Davis's Virginia
Gazette, from which the following extra#
is taken to explain the Impromtu.
" The noblest examples of Republican
" virtues now exiltsng, are to be found
"in the New-England States. There
« our youth could not fail to imbibe lef
" sons—perhaps superior to those former
"ly furnifhed by Athens itftlf. A so
" journing among these virtuous People,
" previous to any public employment,
" might be attended with the most bene
" ficial effects," &c.
March 21ft, 1794. 1
IMPROMTU.
VIRGINIA listen to the sage advice 1
And fend your sons to Salem in a trice.
Follow sage Fijher in the round he went;
And glean the learning which to A—she lent.
Despise your country, and from Yankey's
learn,
How your true interest jufUv to dilcern:
Learn how to value Britain s sterling worth;
Despise the man who'd t-ich that France
brought forth
Columbian States; and bid them France des
pise.
Learn, where aloqe you may, who's truly
wife;
Distinguish 'twixt the patriot and the knave ■
The fugitive from Shay's, or truly brave.
• (
See in mad Jtflerfon, the deep defiga,
With iVlSdilon ani Gjiitt, tp combine/
Learn how the Furtdmg Syilem to luppcrt;
And how to recommend yourselves at Court.
Learn how to answer all—«rho fhlitll complain;
And all the myitie fyfterft of finance explain.
IMPROMTU,
On reading in Fenno's paper his account
of the Vice-Prelident's giving the call
ing vote, when the Senate were divi
ded, Ayes and Nays 12, on the ques
tion refpedling the sale of Prizes by
the French in our harbors—See the
paper—Adams is complimented as hav
ing saved his country from the horrors
of War.
LOVERS of Peace and Titles lend your
aid 1
Your debt of gratitude is not yet paid.
To A-m-s, utinoft stretch of praise is due !
He loft your t tics—but gain'd peace for you.
Betwixt the Tivelve, the balance well he held
Or at one stroke the foe, —Columbia would
have fell'd.
March 21, 1794.
For. jhe Gazette of tie United States.
Mr. Fenno,
BY Mr. Z. the orator's reply to my ad
dress to you the other day, he seems to have
got out of his leading firings—and being now
arrived to the state of manhood, he comes
forward a bold hero to support men and
measures calculated for piblic uffulnefs. —
Happy, thrice happy America—who in this,
thy adopted son, hath lo able a supporter—
not only in thy Councils, bnt in the war
which he so anxiously desires; it may be
expected ((hould it fortunately for him and
a few of his speculating friends take place)
that he will lead thy armies to battle —and,
like Scipio of old at the gates of Carthage,
carry his thunder to the walls of Quebec —"
which mull crumble to the dull at his ap
proach.
Having thus presaged the future exploits
and glory of this truly patriotic orator, give
me leave Mr. Fenno, through the channel
of your paper, to liy before the public a few
remarks on the little details he gives us of
his eminent services in the late war.—•With
great gravity he tells us 'n the firft place,
that in J7Bl, he was appointed receiver of
taxes for Pennsylvania, and Treasurer to the
department of f nance —in which stations of
great importance, he was happy in lending
his aiding hand in the franfa£tions which led
to the peace of 1783" —Adding, that ever
since he has been employed in aflive life,
and extenuvc scenes of commerce, beneficial,
at once, to the country and liiinJVli'.
Vain presumptuous man ! —thus to arro
gate to thyfelf the mer'.trefulting from tranf
aiftions due only to thy guardian angel, the
financier —who among many other adts of his
benevolence towards you, placed you under
bis own direflions in both offices —holding
himf If rrftonfble ior your conduct in them—
and all :wmg you a commifpon on your re
ceipts ai;t? expenditures, which laid the cor
ner /lone oj our present fortune —and of the
consequence you no<w afume —What claim
then can you pretend to have to the public fa
vor for these services of which you boast so
much ?—reverfe the matter, if you please,
and honestly confefs that you fer-ved your/elf
alone—which in every cafe is the rulingprin
ciple with you.
The orator, Mr. Fenno, to shew his early
attachment to the cause of American Inde
pendence, tells us that in the year 1777, he
took the oath of allegiance to the govern
ment —to this I (hall fay with Hudibras,
that— r
It is he who makes the oath that breaks it,
Not him who from convenience takes it.
His loyalty being thus put out of the question,
he concludes by telling us " that in his inde
pendent career neither the -venom of private
malice, nor the rage oj public faSions shall
interrupt him"—Go on my truly patriotic
orator —go on—you are secure from both—
for you are not yet arrived to that degree of
consequence in the world, to excite either
private malice, or come under the serious no
tice of any party —but when next you mount
the rostrum, I think you will do well to
confine your oration within the bounds of
modesty—and learn, if you can, a little grati
tude to the country which gave you birth,
and to a nation which has been so generous
to vour father.
lazetteer.
April Bth, 1794.
Foreign Intelligence.
RECEIVED BV THE
BRUSSELS, January 7.
The excursions of the Prince of Ssxe
Cobourg to Guise and St. Quintin, have
concluded molt unfortunately. On Thurs
day last the two columns were attacked at
the fame moment, with fiush impetuosity,
that they were both forced to retreat to
their old positions between Valenciennes
and Quefnoy. There came in here last
night, by the gate of Ancfcrlecht, an
HONESTUS,
(continued.)
immense transport of wounded and sick,
in no less than 84 waggons.—Thii day
large quantities of amunition and ilores
were dilpatc'icd to the army at Mons.
RATIONAL CONVENTION.
December 15.
" J. B. Lacofte and Baudot, representatives
of the people, with the army of the Rhine
and jVLlelle, to the Naional Convention.
" Hiad-quarten at Nuairhrum, Dec. 11.
" The defenders of the republic, citizens
colleagues, have just obtained a iignal victory
over the Auftrians. Yoji know that the sa
tellites of the kings, relying more upon the
strength of their cannon than their own cou
rage, had intrenched themlelves upon the
heights of Reichfhofen, Genderfhofen, pe
chevillers, and Werth, before Haguenau, re
doubts of three Itoiies, not less formidable
those of Jemappe
" The front of their intrenchments was
attacked this morning with the greatest suc
cess. The soldiers of the republic took 26
pieces of cannon from the enemy, 20 tum
brils, and made upwards of joo prisoners,
among whom is the colonel of the firft re
giment of the emperor, bedecked and covered
with crofles and ribbands, and eight other
officers. The number of their killed is very
considerable ; we would not make any pri
soners till we were tired of killing ! Our !oi
-I'es have been but trifling.
" It would be too long to give the details
of all the prodigies of valour on the part of
our brave soldiers ; their fucceifes repref-nt
them better than all we might fey: the gene
rals, in other refpe<fts, will be eager to give
you all the military particulars. This vic
tory is the more important, as it is the open
ing which will condudl us to Landau.
" We have been all day long in the field
of ba'tle with our brothers in arms.—We
ourselves discharged the cannon upon the
enemy ; and it (hall not be our fault :f this
victory is not followed up without relting,
and with the greatest ardour.—
Greeting and fraternity.
(Signed) «'J. E. LACOSTE,
. " M. A. BAUDOT."
January 3.
CAPTURE OF SPIRES AND
Guermersheim by the French.
Extract of a letter from General Hoche,
to the Minister at war.
Head Quarters,
Landau, Dec. 31.
"We are in pofleffion of Guermer
iheim and Spires with its magazines, arms
and an immense quantity of forage.
'' Landau has coll us (not fncluding
200 men killed, and
800 wouuded. _ - '■ I
The representatives of the people of
Toulon write (23d December) " Since
our lait letter we have been enabled to as
certain, from the different points of attack,
the lols of our enemies ; and we with
pleasure inform you, that it amounts to
jooo men k: f .led and w'ounded, exclulive
of prisoners, of whom there are a great
che
PARIS, December 27.
SITTING of the JACOBINS.
Hebert—" We need not doubt, that
there exiils among us a confpiraey. To
fiuftrate it, we ought to go to work. By
purifying ourselves with the greatefl ri
gor, we (hall without obtlacle do themoft
eflintial service to the common weal.
" I denounce to you Beurdon of Oife,
whose conduct, ever ambigous, cannot in.
spire us with great confidence. Remem
ber he has been a Briffotine, and propo
sed to expel Marat from our focietv. Is
such a man worthy to fit among us ? I
move for the endure of his name from the
Socisty.
" 1 do not confine myielf to this sole
denunciation. I accuse Philippeaux, who
has sometimes the impudence to come to
deliberate with the Jacobins. He has writ
ten works which ought to exclude him
from our bosom.
" 1 accuse Camille Defmoulins, who
formerly could render great service to the
Repuhlic. Since he has married a wo
man who brought him a certain fortune,
he thinks he may despise the true Jaco
bins, and become the friend of the Arif
tociats and Mufcadius, with whom by his
own confeffion, he lives upon familiar
terms. He proteas Dillon : He believes
T urenne to be a man of fupenor genius.
He kept silence for some time; and now
he only takes up the pen to devote Bou
chotte to ridicule—Bouchotte, whose pa
triotism cannot be queitioned. He said
in his journals, that George Bouchotte
was governed by Pitt Vincent. Is Bou
chottc so imbecile as to be governed by
the perion who governs the Britirti minif
tfcr ? I demand the exclusion of C&mille
Defmoulins.
" I here is another individual, under
whom the persons above' mentioned only
3ft in a secondary manner. is 3 Jau-
V }
gerous ierpent, who, by his tortuous
windings, infijiuates hinifelf every where,
moves the machine at his pleasure. This
man is I'abre d'Eglautine. Firfl Ramp
ant at the feet of the Aristocrats, hecoin
pofed counter-revolutionary works. Find
ing that Aiiitocracy would not thrive,he,*
through mean nets' and intrigues, ihifted
himlelt among Patriots, wiio elected him
a Deputy of the. Convention. Figaro
Eglantine, not contented to intrigue for
himfelf, caballed also for Fabre Fond, his
brother. Do you, Citizens, know the
merits of Fabre ? It is true, that for this
long while palt, he has been drefled in
Hussars regimentals; but it was only for
the purpofc of feljiog Balm on the Square
of Toulonfe. This Balm-merchant be
came a General of Brigade. Andonin
can certify to you, that Eglantine intrigu
ed for his brother the HiiiFar ; and that,
as soon as the latter had obtained his
commission of General, be wished that a
Ccurier Extraordinary be sent to an
nounce that extraordinary appointment!
Do you know why Eglantine accuses
Roniin ? It is because Ronfin reproached
his Brother with the luxury he difplsyed
in Da Vendee, and because he reproach
ed him with having never once fired off
the priming of a gun. This is the enig
ma, and the origin of the hatred of Fab
re d'Eglantipe again (I Ronfin. 1 de
mand that he be flruck off. r
" I know my enemies—l know how
powerful they a-- ; I expose my life in
aceivng them : But nothing shall intimi
date m= ! And I (hall be always fupport
cd by the jacobins, not forfake
me wlien I was under the dagger of Arif
toeracv. If my enemies accuse me if
they have power fufficient to thiow my
liberty into chains—Jacobins ! I suppli
cate yon to demand my speedy trial, 'that
I if I (hould not fall, I may loose no time
j to serve the People, who iland in need of
I mC '
" I demand that Camille Defmoulins,
Bourdon, the red haired Phihppeaux, and
Fabre d i" ''antine, be bani'htd from this
oocie:y ; that a petition be presented to
the Convention, to demand "the speedy
trial of the accomplices of Brifibt, and
the report of Arcar refpe&ing the con
; fpiricy announced by CliaHot and Bazire
j in mortj thf¥t this Society do declare that
co:' ti ience."
Mizuel arrived to notify, that tfje vil
lain FaKre d'Eglantine had c.used a de
cree of arrcll to be palled againll him
and that he vent to obey the law.
A member " Livaux ought like'
wile to be expelled fiom this Society," '
■\fter a very animated difcuflion, the
So tv resolved, that Fabre d'Eglantine,
B.urdon of Oife, Camille Definouliiih,
and Lavaux, (hall be invited to to
thsf next meeting, to answer the charges
exhibited againll them ; that an extras
ot' the proceedings of this fitting be pre
fenttd to Ron fin and Vincent, to convince
them that the Society preserve, with re
fpeft to them, its attachment to their
principles, add its fraternal unity; and
that commifiioners (hall announce to them
the said extract.
LONDON, January 11.
It may gratify cui iofity to know, that
Hoche, to whom the chief command was
given, when the afmies of the Rhine and
Mozelle joined, who out-generalled both
Wurmfer and the Duke of Brunfwic, &
whose letters are so laconic, was formerly
oneoi the French King's postilions, and
afterwards a k-.jrsnt in the guards, the
highest rank to which he rcfe before the
Revolution,
Monday a lad? about nine years of
age, lon of Mr,' Brown, Pilot, of Cowes,
playing wuh a pii,ol, (not being known to
be loaded) he put a na;i, made hot in the
fire, into the pi'.tol, which caused it to go oft"
at the instant iie was locking into the barrel,
and lodged the nail in his head, which occa
sioned the loss of one eye,
Friday morning a oerfon gave a loaded
gun to a little boy to hold, in the Rope-Walk,
Bnftol, while he went en some bufintfs, when
tilt child accidentally let the gun fail, which
caused it to go off, tne contents lodged in the
temple of a hide g it l, caused her immediate
oefth,
The d«flriw»bnof Tout a is certaiWan
objert of thefirfl coaftqoflgfc to
try.— ihu;m pl great ffiafure effected.
The French: will do the reft; for
they raze the city,
contdl betveta
Ward and Mfcrfoza dr» a vast contoorfc
of people tn HouH>WH<§h vtirerday monx
•'l*Vl thc civ ' ic P o *" a3ifhrd by a party
ot Jjo.dur', viry properly interfered broke the
, an : - tJ»-fe rufi-.an* f.om ex
fi.ch a dbgracct'ui fjK&aelc.t=— ' -=
UNITED STATES.
NEW-YORK, April j.
CHAMBER of COMMERCE.
New-York, April I ft, 17.94.
THZ Committee appointed by thits
chamber at their lalt monthly meeting,
u to report their opinion 011 the general
Hate of oiir commerce and of the mea
sures which are proper lor thu corporation
to pursue," beg leave to coin nunicate the
fallowing statement as the rei'alt of its en
quiries founded on the m„ft authentic ob
tainable evidence.
TTlat the Algerine Corsairs have almost
totally interrupted our trade with Spain
and Portugal, and the various diftritbs
within the Mediterranean : Those coin
tries having generally afforded good mar
kets for jur produce, our future commerce
with them must be carried on through die.
medium of foreign bottoms, unlets w
can either make peace with those barbari
ans, or furnifh a naval force fufficiently
powerful to defend our trade *-lain It tiicir
depredations. An appreheniion of dan
ger from these corsairs has had a tendency
to advance seamen's wages, and to raise
freight and insurance on our vc: els to the
more northern parts of Europe. Ameri
can Slips, entirely loaded with the proper
ty of our own citizens, hive been afceiv
h'v commissioned by the B 'i
nation, and condemned as lawful pr;:,-s,
although known at the time of cond.m
nation to be bona fide American propeay.
UaneceflVy walte appears in many • s
to have been made, and articles of value
have been forcibly arretted oil the high
seas From vefTels which were afterwards
permitted to proceed on their voyages.
A general interruption is now experienced,
by the interposition of Britilh armed ves
sels, in ourcommerce not only with France
and her colonies, but, in many instances,
where our ve.Tels have been ck-(lined to
neutral ports, and in some cases when they
liave been bound to Britilh ports direct
from America or from one Britilh Illand
to another.
American vefiels have ajfo been taken
by French ships of War and some cargoes
litve been condemned as the property of
tu-thrfren-l). An Km
bargo on many of our merchantmen has
for several months been laid in ports be
longing to the Republic of France. Pro
visions have been taken at stated prices and
paid for in depreciated paper. The ex
portation from France of molt of its pro
duce and manufactures has been interdict
ed and'thai of specie prohibited. In some
cases the cargoes of our vefTels have been
exchanged by those in authority in the
French colonies for bills on the minifler of
the Fiench Republic in the United States,
many of which bills have not been paid
nor has any provifiqn been made for their
discharge; and the cruizing (hips of
France have orders to take all neutral vef
f;ls loaded with provisions and bound to
the potts of any of the powers at war
W'th her.
Tln'i general interruption of our com
merce has in molt instances been contrary
to juftite, and we have fultained many los
ses which it was hoped our neutrality
would have exempted us from.
The constitution of the United States
having veiled in Congress the power 1 of re
gulating trade, it is our duty to look up
to that body, as the representative of the
nation, for indemnification for palt, and
protedtion againlt future lodes.
Your committee therefore recommend
that the following resolutions be adopted
as the sense of this corparation, viz
" Refijlved, That it be eameltly re
commended to all pirfons, citizens of the
United States of America, who may
have full,lined any loss in their property
on the friph seas, or in foreign ports, by
privateers; or other armed velfels belonging
to, or cojnmiflioned by either of the pre
sent European belligerent powers, that
they make report of such cases, with well
authenticated evidence of the truth of
facts, to the committee appointed by this
Chamber, in order that the fame may be
transmitted to the fecretarv of state, for
the purpose expiefied in his letter of 27th
August last, addressed to this corporation."
" Refojved, That this Chamber enter
tain the h if rheft sense of the integrity and
wisdom ot the Congress of the United
States, and are fa;i.sfied that every exer
tion will bo made to support the honorand
true dignity thereof against any and every
£ower whatsoever; and they are perfa, d
' . ... L t • ' . , . •
ed that proper attention and care will he
exercised by the executive to prevent any
iivfradtion of our rights as a
independent nation."
(Signed) x
Comfort Chairman.
The foregoing report and refoluik),is
having been read and approved, the Clam
ber t:iat they ihould be printed
• as the'opinion" aild fcitflmsnts of the Cor
poration.
By order of the Chamber of Com
merce of the City of New-Yo
John Broome, Prelident.
A true extract from the Minutes.
IVm. Laight, Secretary.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 8.
Letters irom New York, by this day's mail
fay, thaa Reports are received, by Vet
•» l'7"n the Indies, tint a French
• fleet is L.-rived there.
We nave Price l.arnt from the best autho
r.y. tliat the ajove f.!couiit is true, and ti»at
in a.v fc vcil ia.r.of the line.
Xiie cciiiideraiioa of Mr. Dayron's mo- j
tion f. r, : : jquelltation of Britilh property .
was fur,her p tins day,
Mr. Murray, th.s day, in the House of
Representatives df the United S:at :s, moved
ior. a committee to bring in a bill to fortify
trie city of Aimapplis—He stated the impor
tance „of a fmkll Fort at tnat place, -as its
protc&ion related to the Cifety of the Re
cords and ftnte papers, of the Hate Treasury
—oi the wealth * tjig cityj and qf the na
vigation of tire Bay of Chtfapealt—after a
fcort debate the motion was carried, and a
committee appointed.
M-. Sedgwick, yesterday in the House of
Representatives reported, from the commit
tee to whom certain resolutions had been re
ferred lo render" more efficient the force of
the United States, a • !1 to detach Bo,coo men
from the militia ; a bill to raise a corps of ar
tillerists and engineers, and a bill to augm'ent
the military force of the United States, by
raising 25,000 rank and file additional troop 3
Th fe bills were twice read: ordered to be
printed and committed for Thuriuay next.
This morning between three and four
.. a. nit.-htok'? oi'.'-i-Llhe-Br.wcry,.
iii Brewer's alley, near Vine-Street,which,
nat-.vithltanding every exertion was made
to extinguish it, entirely cOT fumed the in
side of the bui'.iing, vv.th the contents.
Extract of a letter from a merchant of emi
nence in Uoiton, to iiis correlpondtnt in
this city, dated March 31.
" The embargo Lid on at this moment,
has checked the feelings of those, who much
depended upon the latt new; from England:
But I liope Congress will soon have .ne plea
sure of repealing that act ; having full rea
son to believe that the court of Great Britain
will in fu.ure observe a fair and impartial
neutrality towards us."
Anotherletter to the fame gentleman, fays,
" the embargo toQk place yeitertiay, and put
a itop to several vcflela which were ready ior
sea ; this measure no doubt was expected to
produce good, and wq are fatisfied with it,
tho' there don't now appear any ne.elfuy for
, the continuance of it.'
Another to the fame fays, " the embargo
took place the 29th at nine o'clock in the e
vening, and the merchants appeared perfect
ly fatisfied that it is a judicious mealure; we
presume there will not Ik occasion to conti
nue it long, and that it is not to operate to
the obftru£tion of the coasting tjade."
Congress of the United States.
Hcuje of Rcprefentaiives
April 3.
The committee appointed on the 7th
of Februaiy last, whether any and what
alterations are neceffarv, in the acts " fur
xegdtering and recording flnps or vefTels"
—" for enrolling and licensing Ihips and
veflels" and " for the collection of the
dnties imposed by law on goods, wares
and merchandize, and on the tonnage of
ships or vellelb," were diredted to report
a bill or bills.
A melTage from the Prelident of the
United States, notified his approbation
and signature of the a6t " transferring
for a limited time the jurisdiction of the
circuit to the diltritt court of New-Hamp
(hire, and afiigning certain duties in ref
pedt; to invalid penlioners, to the attorney
of the said diftnft.
In committee of the whole, on the bill
to encourage the recruiting service; a
mendsicnts were reported and agreed to.
■ i \*t J! it; .. .. i ...
and tl»e bill Was ordered to be engroffcd.
A niefege from the Senate iu termed
the that' the.President didthis dav
approve and act wKich originated
Hi the 'Senate, entitled, " an ast to. a,neo
nate the Pi"efident of the United Starts in
certain cafee. to alter the place of holyiiag
a fcffiofl 6{ Oongrels."
j-ii committee of the whole on the mo
tion of the 27th of February last, provid
ing for the .payment of mierett on the ha
lluces credited certain states, in the bocL>
of the treasury, and also for the payment,
by annual inltalmcnts of the balances due
from sundry ilates," on a final settlement
of accounts between the United States and
individual Hates.
Progrcfs reported.
, . • ■ ■. .
. By this Day's Mail.
BALTIMORE, April 5.
We are informed that a Barbadoes par
per has been seen, containing an order of
: his B. majelly's, under date of 20th Ja-
I nuary, that all monies ariiing from the sale
j of American prizes should be reserved in
j the hands ot the agents of the {hips of
| war by which they we re captured, until it
fhcuid be known what part the United
States of America wiii take in the present
war. " v
Ycfterdy Mr. John Spear aarived at this
port, 14 days from St. Martins. Ha
affaires us that the neiu intrusions from
the Court of St. James's have produced
tro kind of effect in the Weft India I
slands. The Briufh cruisers continue t-o
capture every American vejfel without dif
crmi'-nation, and carry them into port for
lawful adjudication. And from this "out
rage on common honetty," no" Vessel is
exempt, whether destined lo a French, a
Dutch, or even a Britifb port. Mr.
Spear's own vt'flel and 1 cargo were con
demned, altho' the Judge admitted tiiat
Mr. Spear was a native of America, and
that both the vessel and cargo were evi
dently his property.
BASSETTERRE, (St. ChriflopUers,)
February 27.
The fh;p , Captain Richards,
arrived at Antigua, in thirty-three days
- frotot London, and brings an account that
Admiral Macbride with a iquadron of men
of war had failed for the coast of America.,
The cabinet of St. James's has directed |
that all American vessels carrying French ;
produce to any foreign port, shall be made i
p. izes of.
Twenty-five of the French prisoners that
were sent, with ft vera! other French de-;
mocrats from this iilaad to fca on tiie 30th
of January, have arrived at Point Petre
from St. Croix, in a flag of t.uc.e ; they
complained bitterly, of ill treatment they
fay they had received from the French
gentlemen here in guarding them,' &c.
a.id praised the conduct of the English to
wards them. In consequence of which
complaint, a great number of democrats
armed, and having two pieces of cannon,
beset the governor's house,' and infilled
that all the aristocrats in the different pri
sons (hould be put to death : The govern
or, was however, firm and refuied their
bloody demands, and had the good luck,
at last to dissuade them from their diaboli
cal intentions.
' NEW-YORK, April 7.
Extradl of a letter from a gentleman in
New-Port, to a merchant in this city,
dated the 29th March, 1794.
" Incloled you have a copy of the Bri
ufh king's, new iatlruttions to his ships of
war, &c. which came ro hand by a schoon
er from Dominico in 17 days, bringing 10
American captains whose vellels and car
goes were condemned after those new in
ltru&ions had arrived there, with 17 more
ii o/ie day."
We are authorised to add, that the new
inftru&ions were (hewn in court before the
condemnation had taken place.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Snow Camilla, Martin, returned
Brig Katy, Luinbard, returned In diPu'efs
Schooner Dolphin, Watson, New-York
Sicop- Nancy & Betsy, Virginia
Sally, Bartlet, Cl.arlefion
Swa'low, Hughes, do*
Miranda, Mitchel, Norfolk
Mar /, Webb, New-York
Salem, Elkins, do.
Coflinger, Freeman, Rhode-Island
CLEARED.
I Brig Activ;, Welsh, Charleftori
i- « • • • - 1 , V.
Little Sally, Earl, Norfolk
Schoon-f Miry, Sffwell, Nt\v Be.Ji.rfi
■Kaney, Macomb, t ( 0 ,
S- op lndep-nicnce, Young, JWm.tja'
i.etfy, Hi- k in, Folly Landing
liaicavoi, ditto." ■
Elizabeth, Bwtmi, Siiow-HiU
i.'rknclhip, Cu.tiS, do.
Betly,, - ditto. ' do.
Delaware, Bin], i\ew-Y<„^
AUgaii, Mpore, ] ortlbiouth
The fc,Sooner Capt. Wi'foti, of
Philadelphia, m 13 days from St. Eisliatia,
arrived at Fa*t Milhm.
1 heAij>s23df, Capt. Hyhbie, of Phila
delphia, horn Oporto, is arrivecr at SoKioay
Hook.
The re-capture of Toulon, was cele
brated at Pans on the 30th Decemjx-'r, by
a grand civic fcltival, at which the Nation
al Convention, the Jacobin Socicty, the'
Municipality, the club of cordeliers, the
national guard of Paris, with an imtnenfe
number of the inhabitants of Paris \rcre
present. ■.
David, the celebrated painter, whoar.
ranged the proeeflion of Lepellitier's and
Marat's funerals, arranged alio the order
of this civic feftiyal.
The discharge of Cannon was the signal
of its commencement.
The following was the order of the proces
sion:
A grand band of mutic.
Fourteen chariots, with emblemati
caily representing the fourteen armies of
Franee.
The figure of a Ihip to reprcfent the mvy of
France.
The members of the National Convention.
The members of the Jacobin Society.
The munisdpality of laris.
The members of the Cordeliers.
The National Guard.
C>nze»s.
When the procession had siriyed at' the
Champ.de Mais, a hymn was sung: The
persons prefant then partook of a Republican
repast.
*** In the extract of 3 letter from Ches
ter county,, in yellcrday's paper, for u thir
tcemh'* i«ad thirtieth.
i L.l . -
Pufl-OJfice, Aprils, 179|. '1/ ■
CZ/" Letters to vo by the opportunity *
expedted for Halif.x, ip the couri'e of.
next week, in order to be conveyed fcy s
the Britilh Packet,' from th<rt pUce to"'
England, will be received at this Oificey
until-Saturday at 12 o'Clock hoo"n:
ADVERTISEMENT.
OF tiw jiiinity iottb«d iioni the inntl nea-;
Baltimore, by Do&or Ganr, ffo <: i>] iar; we • '.
; ferir a I'ds *: j «r by an unknown ha d, 10 rh *
Po'tmafter :.t Baltimore, who trnnfuittedA
t e lame to tiie ( G. neral poll Office. '1" e fill",
feiersbv tnat obberyarr defi ed to fta e tbi
amount of th j ir loHes reflect v:!y, ai d r:> 11T
mif t ie faftis.*, with 1 he-njFtginal letters o l "their
CJirr• pondenn ftrhere recover?ft) or o er
ev r*e ce to the,. General Pcfft Office,
bslore the firfl day of June next, immediate
ly ai ci; \vU«cli a divipe..d ivul be liach am ,u£
the claimant;.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
,PoJi Majkr Gen riL
Gen Poll Officp, April 4, 1794 ia 6v
NEW THEATRE.
TO-MORROW EVENING,
Apr il 9.
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, called the
RIVALS.
Sir Anthony Abfclute, Mr. Morris
Captain Absolute, MrXHaluiers
Falkland, Mu. Fennel
Acres, Mr. Bates
Sir Lucius O'Trigger, Mr. Whit 'ock
Tag, Mr. Ivlarfliail
Davids Mr. Francis
Coachman, Mr. Warrell
Boy, Matter J. Warretl
Mrs. Malaprop, Mrs. Shaw
Lydia Languilh, Mrs. Marshall
Julia, Mrs. Francis
Lucy, Mro. Row foil
To which will be added,
A COMIC OPERA, in two ads,_ daH.ed
the
Agreeable Surprize.
(Written by the author of the Poor Soldier.)
Sir Felix Friendly, Mr, Finch •
Compton, Mr. Dark y
Eugene, - Mr. Marfha'il
Chicane, - Mr. Warrtll
John, Mr. Francis
Thomas, Mr. Gee .11
Farmer Stump, Mr. Ha'rv'or d
Cudden, Mr. BlitT tt.
Lingo, Mr , fiat, s
Laura, Mrs. Marlhall
Mrs. Chelhire, Mrs. Shaw
Cowslip, Miss Broadhurft
Fringe, Mrs. Rowfon
IVANTED,
A PRESSMAN,
Apply at this Office.Just Imported,
In the Ship iEdward, Capt. Cra/idon, •fro®
St. Peterlburg in Rtjflia,
And uow landing at South-ftrcet Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SKEF.TING,
- — ttJtVEN*B DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
MOG's BRISTLES.
Alio FOR SALE 6V
.» John Donnaldfon,
No. Walnm-itrce-t.
March 4,1794. di w.^tawtf
scheme of a Lottery,
To raije 39,900 Dollars, on
Dollars, deduaing 15 per Cent, from
the Prints—this Lottery confijls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there dre
14,539 Prices and 23,461 Blanks,
"being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
THE DireSors of the Society for cftablilhing
Ut.lul Manufa&ures, having resolved 10
nrft LOTTERIES for tailing O.N £. Hiwb *10
Thousand Dol la rs, agreeably to an Act of
ihc Lcgiilatore of the Slate ot New- Jdr'fey, have
appointed the following person* to superintend
jii-I diretljhe drawing ol the Tame, viz. Nicho
las Low, rfulus King, Herman,Le Roy, James
Watson, Richard Harrifon, Anijah Hammond,
and Cornelius Ray, of the city ol New.Yoik—
Thomas Willing, J. >feph Ball, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew Bayard, ot the city of Phila
delphia—'Hi» Excelleucy Richard Howell, Esq.
Elus Bonciinot, General F.liai Dayton, James
pjrker, John Bayard, D"£tor Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton, Jolhua M.Wallace, Joseph
Bluoinfteld, ami Elitha Boudinot, of Ncw-Jer
(ty, who offer the following Scheme of a Lot
ury, and pledge ihemlelves to the public, that
thry will take e»ery allowance and piecauiion in
their power lo have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from titxe to time, as received, into
the Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for the purpoteof paying Priz s, which
■lh.ill be immediately discharged by a check
upon one of 1 tie Banks.
SCHEME:
1 Pi use of 20,000 Dollars is 2©,000
1 i 0,600 *0,000
•2 10,000
g 2,000. 10,000
10 1,000 10,000
SO 500 lf»,000
too 100 10,000 |
306 £0 *5»ooo
1000 , 20 20,000 I
2000 15 30,000
3COO 12 36,000
8100 10 81,000
- * ~» ■
14,539 Prizes. 2#a,000
23,461 Biatikt, Firfl drawn number, 2,000
Last drawn uutnber, 2,000
381,000 Tickets at Dollars each is 266.000
The drawing will commence, under the m
fpe&i >n of a Committee ot the Superintendanis,
jgL as fool! as the Tickets are fold, ot which timely
notice will be given.
Superintendents have appointed John N.
Camming, of Newark, Jacob H. Hardenberg,
of New-BrunVwick, and. toiwihan Rhea, ot
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample security tor discharging the
trust reposed in ihem.
(£3T In order to secure the pun&ual payment
of (he Prizes, the Superitjtendanisof the Lottery
have directed that the Managers shall each enter
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four fufficient
(ec until s, to perform their mftrufiions, the fub
ftanceoF which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
(hall receive the fu 111 of Three Hundred Dollars,
he shall immdiately place thefame in one of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
ciedu ot the Governor of the Society, and such
ot the Supervn:endants as live in the city where
the monies are placed, to remain there until the
Lottery is drawn, for the payment of the Prize®.
11. The Managers to take fufficient security
for any Tickets they may trust, othcrwifc to be
refponnhle for them.
111. To keep regular hooks of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ftra£U of which (hall.be sent, monthly, to the
Governor ot the Society.
Pater foil, January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle
men, information will be given wheretickets !
m<»v be had.
February £4. tij&'tf.
Lately Published.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street-:
THE Hikoryof New-Hampshire, troin the
DifcAveiy ofnhe Pifr.ataqua—by Jc
roniah Belknap, D. D. 3 Vols. Pricc in Boards,
4 1.2 Dollars.
The Foirefter, an American Fable, being a
* Sequel to the History of John Bull the Cioihier.
Prce, 75 Cents.
A Dtfcourfc, intended to commemorate the
Discovery of America by Xhriftopher Colum
bus; delivered at the request of the Historical
Society in MaflfachufeUs, O&ober 23d, 1792,
being the completion of the Thud Cctuuiv,
since that memorable event. To which are
added, Four Dtffortations, coimefled with the
fubje£t—By the fame author. Price, 30 Cents,
March 17. , tutn&f3W
WANTED
A Servant,
TO wait nn a single Goiitlem&u. Enquire
at No. 165, Chefimt ftreec.
April 5. dtf
just Publiftiedj
AND T8 BE SOLD. BY
THOMAS DOB SON,
At the Scujio tfa. 41, South Second
Street,
Historical Collections:
CONSISTING OF
STATE PAPERS,
And other authentic Documents,' intended as
materials for an Hiliory of the United States
of America.
By EBENfcZER. HAZARD, k. M.
In two large quarto volunus, price teu dol
lars in boards.
Subscribers will be lUrnHhed with tl>& 2d.
volume on paying three dollars and a qiiarter
—having paid live dollars and a quarter on
receiving the firit.
This feebnd volume comprehends, atnoog
other imereftiwg pa't cularsj a complete co
py of tbeßecordsof the Unir<d Colonies of
N. England, in which the condu&of the com
milfioners reipe&ing the general concerns of
the colonies—the neighbouring Indians—and
the Dutch at Manhattans (now NewYoik) is
particularly detailed.
I%* Material? a r e colte&ed fufHcient to
form a THIRD VOLUME, The time of
publilhing will depend on the encouragement
Gtf be derived f«om fubferiptions which will be
received by Thomas Dnbfpn, Philadelphia ;
Jere. Libbey, PortfmontU, New Hamplhir.;
Thomas & Andrews,&Thos. Weft,BoJloti; 11-
aia Thomas, Worceiter ; Isaac Biers, New-
Haven; 10 thy Qi ben. New London 5 Jac b J
llchardfon, Newport; John Carter, Provi
deuce ; Hugh Gaine, Thomas and
Samuel Campbell, New York ; Fred rick
Craig, Wilmogton, Delawaie; James Rice,
Baltimore; Mr. Lindfey, Norfolk;; David
Henderfon, Fredericksburg; John Grammar
Pnerfburg ; Augustine Davis, Richmond} F
X.Martin, Newbero, N. C. John Bradley,
Wilmington; aad William Price Young, Char -
lefton.
April 4 mw&f^w
Pennsylvania Hospital,
4th NJonth, sth 17<?4.
The Contributors are desired
to attend the Ejection, 10 be held at ih
Hospital 011 ihe jt» day of the j h Month
next,at 3 o'clock in the afternoon; to cboofe
twelve Manages and a Tr t ASURfc*, for
the enluing year:
By order of a board of Managers.
Samuel Coates, clerk.
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, JAPANN'D
PLATES, &c.
Done in the rntfft elegant manner, and after
the firft mailers ; likewise,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finilhed at the ihorteft notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth ltreets.
March 4. dtf
Just Imported,
In theJhip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peterjburgh in Rujfia, and now landing at
Rujfell's wharf,
HEMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHLETINGS, '
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And tor at the (lyres of the; fubfer ibcr in
Walnut flreet, No. 22.
John Donnaldfon,
April 4. diw w& t
Henry Rape _ State of Maryland.
v. /High Court ol'Chancery,
BenjaminGaither > March sth. 179^.
and \
Basil Gaither
The Complainant dates
in his bill that the defendants Benjamin Gai- •
ther and Basil Gaither were seized in fee as
tenants in common of a tratt of Jand in Fre.
dericlcCounty, called Hammond's Strife
that being so feilfed, Basil executed a power
of attorney to Benjaiptn authorizing bun to
foil Tris, the said BafiJ's inured in the fa d
land, that afterwards the said Benjamin fold
the laid land toa certain William Gaither for
the consideration of fix hundred poundswhich
hath been since paid, that the said William
hatli afligned to the Complainant Henry Rape
the bond executed by the said Benjamin for
the conveyance of t )efaidjand : The Com
plainant now further Hates (and so appears
to the Chancellor) that the defendants are
non-residents of the llatfe of Maryland, and
herefore out of the reach of the procel's of
this court. ,
flltis therefore adjudged and ordered, that
the Complainant procure a copy of this or
der to be inserted in the newspaper of Angell
aitd Sullivan, and ia the United States Gazetie
at least three weeks successively, before the
twentieth day of May next ; to the intent
that the Defendants and all others, who may
conceive theiufelves iuterefted in the premis
es, may have notice to appear in this court,
on or before the third Tucfday in September
next, to ftiew cause wherefore a decree should
not pass for veiling in the Complainant acom
plete legal title to tbe land aforefaid.
Test,
SAMUEL HARVEY HOWARD,
Keg. Cur. Con.
March iH
The Following Certifi--
cate of ill* funded three pci Cent Stock of the
Dom.ftic D*bt ot the United States lUndingon
the books of ifcte. Tieafury of the laid United
'States, in the nam- * ot Doi>nald and Button ot
London, n.e chains, and signed by Joicph
N >urlV, Regilter of fa id 'Dvattji-y, to W ' l • '
N<>. 5476, dated 24 "-h Auguil 1792 f° r *959
doiUra oiid 53 cent* was tiaafmitted from Lon
don in thr (hip Pcfvi, PaulHudey, mailer,
hound for New York, aud nas been lulfc.
The Subscriber intending 10 apply to the Tiea
fury of the United States id have the fame re
newed, defues all person's who ate inter eited in
ihe said certificate, to make their objections
thcieto, if aiiy they have.
Francis Macy.
Philad. March -27.
v TO'%E SOLD,
And rnfered upon ihe fiift of May,
The noted EJlate, called^
yobnjon Hall:
Lying iu the Moba w*< country, ffatc of Ntw
Yoik, torircly the feat of Sir William JoHn
son, containing about fevpn hundred acres 01
land, which is of the very best quality ; toge
ther with the (lock, and farming oienfils. The
buildings are large and convenient, and Til tor
a gentleman's feat. The payments will be made
easy, on godd fecuruy. For further particulars
citquiie of George Metealf, Etq. on the pretnif
es, of SiUs Talbot, fctq. at Ph-ladelphia, of
Samuel Ward and brothers, in New Yoik, or
ot the lubfciiber in Providence
Jabcz Bow en.
Philad. March 26 mw&li,m
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS ENVIRONS:
Takfcn from a&ual survey, by A. P. Folie,
Geographer, frorfi St. Damiiigo.
THIi) Pian will be engraved on a plate 26
inches t'quare ; arid ic will contain an ex- 1
a£i defenptiou of all the squares, ftTf-ets and
alleys in the City and Liberties. The situation
of the several public buildings,fiich as the State
iioufe, City-Hall, Seat^of Congrfltfs, Churches,
Meeting-Houlcs, Hofpual, Library and Semina
ries of Learning—ot the several Banks, and oi
the Federal and State Offices, wili be afccitained.
The parts which are built on will be distinguish
ed from those that arc not. The cnitrfes of trie
rivulets between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended-to ccmoeCt the
navigation of those two waters, as lies within
the compass of the draught, will be accurately
delirtcatcd- It wit 1 alfc» he ornamented bv a
view of the flapping in thtr.hafbo/, and an ele
vation 6t Congrcfs-Ball, atid ot the other public
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous.
In fhoii, nothing will be omitted to render Uifis
ufetul and deferable work acceptable to an en
lightened public, thdt is in the author's powfcr :
and it shall be compleated With uhe,.greatett
poflible difpacch, a* toon as the generous enebn -
ragemeht oi insure tO-t
such a sum as Will be Uftßcfcnt CO del ray ex
pcnccs. v
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will contain an alphabetical hit oi
the Subscriber* nan es, and information con
cerning the police, population and pfelem ft ate
of the city.
v The price to fubfcribc > s will be Tvyo Dollars
and one third, i(» be paid at the rime oi deliver
ing the Plai>6.
Subfcripcions will be received at
the principal Booksellers iu this city—and the
original Draft may be seen at B. Davies',
Mo. 68, Marku-ftreet, at anv ti^ncuntil it (hall |
be put into the hands oi the Engraver.
Feb 28.
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the Hbufe of Representatives,
December 2lit, 1793.
WHEREAS the CrtmmillVdners of public
Aeco<mts, have reported, that they can
not proceed (o the in\eftigatimi af'the Treasury
Accounts, refpc&tn* fp;cial IfidenH, wilhoui
knowing the oiuttandmg amount rhtieof in cir
culation '.—Therefore,
Rcfolvtdy That all holders of special Indvnts i
be directed, and reqviiria, on or before the Grft J
day of November n-xt, to deliver the special In
dention their poflfeffiorv t clone or other <>f ttoe
Comnniftouejs of the Trealury, who are to give
receipts lor the f.ime, and to repujt to tbeCom
milljoncrN on public accounts, on or"beloie the
! enth day of November next, the amount by
theix relpejfciivcly and also to the Le
gislature, at then meeting in Novertvber next,
and thiat all fperial Indents not rendered luto
the Treasury as above, on or btfoie the hill day
of November next, iball Ue, and ibeTaxne are
heubv barred.
Rcjolvali That public notice of this lefolution
be given in the ievera) Gatectes ro this Stale,
once every three-weeks, u|) if the firit day of
November next. And that Ihe Delegates ot this
Slate in the Congrcls of the United States, be re
quffied to caiife this rci«»lulio*i to be publiiiicd
in one or more papers i*i she cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and thar provision will be
mads foe the expenses attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That tlie rcfoldiioa be fc*U to the
•StUd\c ior their coficarrenre.
13v "1 Her of the House,
JOHN £AN FOR D DA JIT, C. //. R.
In the SENATE^
Dec K MB I R vi ft, 1793.
Rtfoltttf, That this Houfc'do concur with iht
Houle of BLepuefenLaiives in ihe refo-i
Unions. lAii_ . i. i .-J& 1
Ordered,, Thji the refoluiioiu 10 thej
Koule oJ R^pfelemarivcs.
by order of ilir Senetr, -j
FELIX WARtEV, CJeik. I
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
in Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets\ adjoining thfc Ejjifcopal burying-
ground,
TAKES this opportunity fcf UturrvingwU
grateful thanks to bisl'ornwi em[>loy«f« f
and requeuing their futuTe favors, al •«" "*
those of the public in general.
He continues to make mil repair at the
lhorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
fucli as coabbes, chariots, pl.astons with bud
without crane necks, cOaClvees; chaifet, kilte
reens, windsor fufkeyi-ird chaiis, and liai fie( s
ofevwy delcripriun, in "he neatest and ne'M'ft
fafliion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the bed seasoned
wood by liimj and capita) workmen, be has
not the least dotibt biit he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion Ttt those who pleaie to employ Him.
He has far sale; fever*! earriages alinott
finifhed, fucb as coachees, an Italian \*ind!or
chair, hung on Iteel springs, a light pbseto)> for
one or tfro hories, and a lulkey with a falling
tbp.
Carriages fold on Commiflion,
Philadelphia, Jan. I, 1794 mStth jjm
Jult Published,
In one hamilome volume, inno, Pried 5s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
Sit Franklin's Head) No. 4'» Heeentl
Stre :t,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the iitghtt that retult worn it, and on the
Dlitire which jt impoki.
To which a M£DAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarfeui.
Corrected and Enlarged,
By WILLIAM BROWN,
D. D.
Profeflor of Moral t'liil'ofopby, and the Law
ot Nature, and of Ecc'icliafttcal Hiiloiy ;
and Minister oi'the Englidi Cbuicft at U
trerht,
Aliquid Temper ad c'ommuncm utilitatein as.
ferendum Ci'c mo.
Tht Firjl American Edition.
THE grand principle of Equality, if right
ly Ittjderiiood, is the only basis on which
universal jiiftite, lac-red order, and perfect
freedom, can bt finily built, and permanent
ly feed red. The v eiv of it exhibited in this
e/Tsiy, at Hie fame time that it rrpreffej the
infoience of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages j>f oppression ; cokSwu, in the
molt forcible manner, the necefliry of subor
dination, and the jull demands of lawful au
thority* So far indeed, frtrtn tswftfiipg the
bunds of TocietJ', that it maintainsinviolate,
every natural and evfery civil
oraursKiiirt cWfly'lively fUIW WTtr?iym
pn* harmonk)ij» »Bd jHflly pwipßiri/iwii sJP
teii, aikd raeii «o tit •£'.*s
'gi-oywU {b» w)4i'«it'ftgS)ts '6% humsii" i>a
tur«, df reclprocat alj|bat'fon,.iiy(l*(>J" &cdm»
jnorrralatidn luHw coininunity. ' .
■""»•''S .MwMpqW;
Jhk-)i6ti6't'# i lyil«l'Y informs |v? frk*dt **4
fat pfAllc«.'Tiut'ir<i(n> the' encokurttfclMut
fr6jl) tcA t-i'd 11 eiu< t'AUt,
Wen, .tic u induced, "o«c<n»t<, «» criritMk in th«
•JP AP&ft 'LlNE—arid 'would offer mtj'** to
id ihofe fccnlicmcn, who can
"rti'hinV; Trffd'ttc affufe* tljofe wbyj etMoy btm,
ijltt lhflt CniiftdtAee'ftatt rffct TJ«
4jut:it JiajMy itirj
ilnOlt MCent'ian to llwii »«•
£ticii['*jns Whatever. He haj tjken th« Chamber
inSMfSfrtet, wtt-Mr. D&rd Tiicfiftfyi. Watch
Jphaipi—MlßiJit SECLKU
T^tS ( ot a« ki«d«, bought and l*-d ; w»4
whetcCnromiflion Bu&ucf*ol all kiiMMi will I'e
tr«nfa£ied ou leafonable tetsit. JfP*9 ES H>&
VISSEXS will b« fat &' e r 011
comnuiTioa. -
'm&rthif
**♦ Calii p*i4 far Salnjn, Praviieptt, and
BJtI.S
N. B. If any Gentleman in PhihiUlphta, fir
New-York, has any Bujinefi to IrahjtUl st liojlen,
in Paper Negociations, he mil bt Jiapfbtfi fa tM*
'phiid on comnu'JfiDn.
Bofttai, Jan. *4, 1^94.
T0 be Sold at Public Vindue y
011 Friday the inhdayof April next,
at the houfc of John Thorn/art, in Perth-
Anjb ojr,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
ThE Lot contains eieVan jci.es, <»i whi«b ft
An oichaid of grafted apple tf<f i, * w£*i .tf
excellent water, a targe 4fone c ftetnf »<>(s a vtfy
commodious (table and coach-houtcj awid 3
quant ity ot the best buildiog ftonesm jfas w»<!s
ot the houfr, which was formerly fudt(*3l ftof
refideliee ot the Governors of'New-jef fey. Tl»c
fllWatior. of this Lot is so wcH kii-iva tar i««
i healthiness and beautiful tb« fiwuttfiy
river to the well ot tbebav, and Sa»<)»,Hi»»fc«rt
tbe eafl, that a further <j c., c n s> :u) n isti«"K<ji|rry.
The conditions of fsle will be, oueXiitd at the
purthafe money lo be paid on (h<< firfi (,(
Way next, when a gooo and Dejd writil
be given to the purchafcr, by WfLTf.*. ftt»-
Therfurd, Esq. Prefidrnt of Jie B.wrrf <»f
Proprietary ot the pillern Divii'j .a «f
Jtriey, and tiie remaining two'thii.rt*
rtly fe<ured in equal aonual paytmSmi,
&y order ot the Board,
JAMES PARKESR, R^SHcr.
Pcrlh-Ambo\. February t-4
PHILADELPHIA t
PRINTED BY JOHN FENLMO, Ks# Jk
IN THAT CITY.
South Fourth-StreH,