.
EVENING A D VERTISER.
[No. 142 of Vol. V.] Wednesday, May 28, 175)4. [Whole No. 558.]
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
BAY MAHOGANY ami FRt'XCH
BURR STONES,
FOR SALE BY
Gurney and Smith.
May 14- d
JAMAICA RUM,
LANDING at Hamilton's wfearfj, above
the Drawbridge, out of the (hip Bacchus
Ce» t. VaNHE'Han i from Jamaica,
FOR SALE Br
PETER BLIGHT.
M»y 16. v d
~ REM AIN IN G
OF THE
Ship India's Cargo,
FROM
BENGAL.
A small assortment of
BALE GOODS,
250 bags COTTON of good quality, which
would probably make an excellent remit
tance to Eur ope, and a
Quantity of PEPPER
For Sale by »
Mordecai Lewis,
Who has also to difpafe of
Barcelona Hawi'fs. in boxes,
Holland Gin in cases,
Souchong, Hyson, and Tonkay Tea,
A quantity of* Brimstone, Sec.
May to d3w
Congress of the United States,
In Senate, Tuefaay May 13th, 1794.
ORDERED, that Rufu* Putnam, Manai
fati Cutier, Robert Oliver and Griiftn
Green, do, upon she third Mond.ty of Decem
ber next, (hc\r cause to the Senate, why lb
much of the grants of land to them the laid
Rufus Putnam, Manallah Cutler, Robert
Oliver and Griffin Green, pursuant to an
1 Authorizing the grant and
conveyance ofccrrabi ni-;„ r,,>,
pany of ailociates," inilr not ne 'wcU'lcL
void, as may interfere with and be lufficient
tofatisfy the claims of the French settlers
at Galliopolis.
Ordered, that the delivery of a copy of
the above order to Ralus Putnam, ManafTah
Cutler, Robert Oliver, or Gnflin Green, and
the publication of the fame, one aiion'h, in
one of ihe Gazettes printed in this City, fhali
be deemed fu/ficienl notice thereof.
Extra# from the Journals of Senate.
Atteft^
SAM. A. OTIS, secretary.
Mav 14. lin *
UFOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. 118.
Maiket-Strect,
An Eflay on Slavery,
Defrgned to exhibit in a new point ot view
its effe&s on moralsindujlry, and the peace of
Jociety. Some tatts and calculations are offered
to prove the labor a\ freemen to be much more
produflixre than that ot Jlqves ; that countrifs are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion as the
laboring people enjoy the fruits of their own
labor; and frencc the nrceflary conclusion, that
slavery »s impolitic as well as unjujl.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February 15.
Agreeably to notice, a
meeungof the Subscribers to the Art les o
Agreement of the Columbian Society' was
this day held at Mr. Richardet's, for the pur
pose of chufing Managers, Sic. when the fol
lowing perform were c'lofen :
Robert Morris, Pfejident.
MANAGERS.
"James Greenleaf
Trijiram Dalton,
"John Nicholfon
Caleb Lonvnes,
Thomas Fitzjrmms.
James Wilson,
F. A. Muhlenberg,
Walter Steiua't,
John- Hall,
Richard Soderfironl,
Nathaniel IV. Appleton.
Treasurer.
Garrett Cottringer.
Mav 27 dlw
Advertisement.
THE relations of Mr Thomas Curtis,for
merly of Ellicott's Upper Mills, and lately of
the C'ty of Wafh'ngton, deceased, are desir
ed to apply a: d have his affairs fettled.
City of Washington, April 22, 1764.
M. 5 m&th4w
/
For St. Croix,
INDUSTRY,
y&i- figrrfTii
JLlovd Wharton, Master.
SHE is intended to fail with the firft vessels
and can accommodate a few paflfengers very
well. For terms apply to the Captain, or
WHARTON & GREEVES.
May 19. <161
For Sale or Charter,
Burthen 1000 barrels.
.sHi u 6 Itaul.cn f-ft failing new vein,well
found, and ready for any voyage, either to
Europe, or th: We# Indies. For terms ap
ply to
JDEBLOIS fcf BREGK.
At their store, between SVainut and Chelhut
llreet wharves.
Mav <?g * d
t or Sale or Charter,
iMBC ANDROMACHE.
(An American bottom)
John Moore-, Master*
IS a flout good velfel, about two years oh),
burthen 23* tons, has only mado three voy
ages, and may be lent to fca at a fmill ex
pence. She maybe l'ecn at Vi le-ftreet wharf,
and the terms made known bv anpl.cation to
WHARTON & LE/VIS. '
March 2i. dtf
Midwifery.
Dr. Price, Fellow of the Anti
quartan Society, and of jesus College in the
Uuiverfity 01 Oxford, &c. &c. formerly lec- j
Cu:er 011 Midwifery in London, wiJl com
nience earjy in the Autumn, a comp;ete
• Course of Le&ures,.
ON .THE
Theory & pra&ice of Midwifery J
(IVitk the latcH Improvements ) ~
men and Chi<dren; ot which timely notice ; r
will be given. # t
Ma v 26 t
Morris Academy.
THIS inftumion is now open for t»e r«c»p <
tion of lttidents undet the im.n- diate <
Mr. Caleb Rulfcll, whole ibtTities as an in
iti uilor, and attachnlent to thebnfinefs havi
loitg been known and approved. He has an- ]
der Him the belt aifiltants in the different ;
nianches —The scholars are taught the En
glilh, French, La*in, ar.d Gnek languages,
i'uftlic-bpeaking, Writing, Arithmetic, Geo
graphy, Aftronoiny, and the various branch i
es ot the Mathematics. The healihy ficua
tion ot" this place is fui has to recommend it (
to those, v(lk> with to have their children in i
the couutry. Boarding, washing, mending,
&c. will be provided in good families, and
the morals of the scholars carefully attended i
to. •
The price including tuition, firewood, See.
eexclulive of the French language) will not
xceed thirty ponnd» proclamation money per
annum) an addition of three dollars per quar
ter iv 11J be marie to such scholars who are
teught the French language. The Directors
at edetermined to pay such attention to this
institution, as will render it refpeftable and
"ufefui.
GABRIEL H. FORD, }
TIMOTHY jOHNS, jun. C Direft's.
NATHAN FORD, 5
Morriltown, May Ij, 1794
diw.—wjm.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt, Crandon, from
St. Peterlburg in Ruflia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
Jobn< Donnaldfon,
Nd. 22, Walnut-street.
March 4,1794. diw3tawtf
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Hou/es or Public
Cffi:es,
Two brick 3 story Houses,
HAVING 6 looms in eicli, wiih fire places
beside garrets, situate on the south westerly Tide
of Dock ftrcet, between Pear and Walnut
streets. Enquire of
BENJAMIN W. MORRIS.
April 17. tuth
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglhearls and in cases of 50 Denies each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigrie Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hop,[heads and quarter calks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front llreet.
Jan. 2, 1794. dtf
A New Novel.
To the LADIES of Philadelphia.
This Day is Published by
MATHEW CAREY,
118, Market ltreet,
Price, bound, rive-eighths of a dollar, sewed
in n arble h.ill a dolibr,
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
IN,TWO VOLUiMES.
£y Mrs. ROWSON, of the New Theatre,
Phiadeiphia,, Author of Vi&oria, the Iri-
the Fille de Chambie, &c.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have giveri
the folio wing character.
IT jna) be a rale oi* Truth, for it is not
unnatural, ana it is a tale of real diitrefs.—
C larltjtte, i»y the artifice of a tt achei, recom
mended to a school, from humanity rather
than a convittion of her integrity, or the £g.
ularity of her former cond<>£t, is enticed
f;om her governed, and accompanies a young
Wiicer to America.-—The marru.gje cerertio
»y, if not forgotten, is poliponed, and Char
lotte dies a martyr *-0 the inco«iiia,ucy of the
over, and treachery of his friend The f?tu
tions are'airtJefjs and affecting—the trefcrip"
a lions natural and pathetic; we fhou!d lee
ior Charlotte if such a person ever existed,
who tor one error fcarccly, perhaps, deserved
fci fevete a puniftiment. If it is a fiction,
poet:c justice is not, we think, properly dif
tributes ,•
Said Carey has jujl published,
! A 2 fh'eet map of Kentucky
compiled by Eiihu Barker, price oile doiiar
.4W..1. • ...
: Germany, Spain,ltaly, the United Provinces,
tire Netherlands, ar.d the Well Indies. Price
two dollai s.
Map of Mew Jerfey —Half a doiiar.
M*p<; of Vermont, Connecticut, Delaware,
Georgia Price eighths of a dollai
each. ,
April 2<J. tuth&'s3w
M-.-iDe.lilA, ")
irt£KRY, I
,-OKT, WINi.S of the firfl quality
LIjBUN, & |
TiNfiKIFFE j
OIJ Jam.ica Spirit, Antigua and Weft India
Kuril.
Comae, French and Peach Brandies
Claret and Port Wine of aiuperior quality
in cases.
Win: Cyder and Vinegar, in pipes and hlids.
Corks in Bales, Havannah Segais in Boxes.
Philadelphia Porter, in Calks and Bottles.
London do. in do. do.
PiuJacteipSiia Ale ana Beer ill do. do.
London do. in do. do. and
Cyder :n barrels- and bottles, preparedfor ex
Donation or immediate ule,
FOR SALE BY
Benjamin W- Moris,
Tuc corner of Dock and Pear greets,
Were he has provided luttable ltor«» and
vauiis, for the reception of
WINE S, &c.
Which ne to itoie or dilpole of on
commiilion
Capiainsof veflels and others luppliedw ith
any ol tie aboveJLl Qt3OKS bottltdj and lea
ifcores in gene al put up.
May 9 tu&f2m
JUST PUBLISHED,
• MATHEW CAREY,
118, Mar it t Jlreet,
Price 18 cents,
THE
Catechism of Man ;
Pointu g u from found principles, and ac
know tUe Rights and Duties of
every Rational Being.
Am I therefore become your enemy because ]
teil you the truth ? Gal. iv. 16
Now ail these things happened unto them foi
examples, and they are written for oui
admonition, upou whom the ends of tin
earth are come. iCorV xii.
xO tuth&S2W
CONGRESS.
House of Reprefenlatives.
Friday, May 9.
\_Mr. IV. Smith's Speech Concluded.
It had been proposed that in lieu of these
stamp duties, the duties of impost should be
increased on all articles which now pay a iju
ty of seven and a halt per cent ad valorunr,
to ten per cent, befiedes the increased rates of
duties pn the enumerated articles. It was
not a little surprizing, he obfei ved, that gen
tlemen who a few days a go preditkd an ap
proaching war, whereby our existing reve
nue ariiing from import would be almolt an
nihilated, should now not only count Upon
the continuance of that revenue, but should
expect further aid from that source, or that
those who are urging a suspension of com
mercial intercourse should rely upon com
merce altogether for revenue. He was de
cidedly of opinion, that commerce wis al
ready luflicienily burthened, and that it
j would be as unjust as impolitic to add to
• the burden. We ought not to rely upon
the proposed duties on the enumerated ar
ticles, which with the proposed incr afeof
tonnage conffituted an item of neaf
400,000 dollars.—Tliis lie considered,
under present circumstances, a very pre*
carious resource. With refpedi to the
other new sources of revenue, being un
tried, they were uncertain ; the house
poffefled 110 data by which any accurate
ellimate could be made of their product;
under all these circumllances, while on
the one hand, the exiding revenues wouid
fall short of those of former years, and
the new revenues were either pretarious
or uncertain as to their amount, and on
the other hand ouf expences were necefia
rily much increased, and were likely to be'
Itill further increased, he was confident
the house would be fenllble of the propri
etv ncjat'vins'the motion. _ ' :
would be some difficulty in can ymg the
tax into execution ; but these difficulties
were inseparable from the very nature of
taxation, It required littie ingenuity to
discover them, and to apply to them all
the common place topics which were re
sorted to on these occasions. But he
thought that if the gentlemen would em
ploy their ingenuity and inventive facul
ties in discovering such revenues as would
enable the government to face the pre
sent exigencies, they would render mort'
service to the country, than by embarras
sing with objections, which were equally
applicable to almost every species of irn
polition.
THEATRE.
OBSERVER No. XVlt.
Mr. Fen no,
On Friday evening, Mr. Bates's night,
the New-Theatre was filled with an unu
sual number—a more brilliant and genteef
audience has never attended. The Du
enna was well performed—the parts have
never been better call, and the several
performers, never did themselves more
juflice,in pretenlipns to nncommort merit.
Mr. Bates has, perhaps, succeeded betted
than any other Acior in the United
States, in pleasing all descriptions of peo
ple—may he continue to experience their
favors, in such phudits, as his benefit af
forded.
Mr. Morris's benefit was on Monday
evening ; and that truly d,eferving veteran,
was notified in a very h6nofable, as well
as beneficial manner—a good hotife, in
point of numbers and refpe&ability, was
never more gratified, by his performance,
than by that in the character of Don Ma
nual. This A£tor, has uniformly filled
his parts with great iuftnefs, but he truly
filled the character Don Manuel with pro
digious strength and elegance. Cibber,
who wrote the play, could not have pof
feficd a thought, which Mr. Morris did
not give its full exercise. His perform
ance of the scene after his daughter's mar
riage, when a mixture of extatic joy and
paternal tenderness overcomes him, w«f*-"y
tertr exceeded, by any one, in ten differ
ent and celebrated Actors, whose per-,
formances of that character, the Observer
has seen ; and he believes he may fay, was
not equalled by many of that number.
Mrs. Sba'to, is one of the belt aftreffes,
in this Company; if (he does not take the
firft parts, vet her performance is mark
ed with such exact propriety, with an
uncommon ftrengthand clearness ofvpice,
that <he may be pronounced a very good
aftrefs, when compared to this as well as
other companies. .
Mr. Chalmers, never gave so Unking
proofs of his extraordinary comic talents,
- as he did in the character of Trafianti.
The Observer entertains the highest opini
on of Mr. Chalmers, as a man, and as an
aVor, in the last character, he certainly tells
a lie, with more grace than any man, he
ever saw attempt the bufin»fs.
Mr. Har-wood possesses a peculiar kind
of comic fa;e, eyes, and indeed vvhqle cha
ncer. The Observer does not remember
having seen a man pofleffing that particidar
comic ability, in so great a degree. He
is a great acquisition to the itage.
May 27, 1794*
For the Gazette of the 1/nitmD States
Mr. Fenno,
I am one among the many who were gra
tified the lafl year by Mr. Blanchard's afcen
lion in his Balloon ; and until within a *ew
days had flattered myfelf with the idea ot a
repetition of so magnificent a ; but,
whilst expe<station was thus oft liptoe, the
public were told by Mr. 15. hpnfeif, that the
cylinders to have been used as the medium
ot* conveyance for the inflammable air had
failed, and on account of the expence of any
other process, the whole proje<£l with it. An
anxious solicitude once more to indulge so
Phtfofophic and delightful a display of mag
nanimity, will I trust, be f me apology to
Mr. I), for the freedom of suggesting to
him, a cheap and expeditious method of ob
taining this neceflarv gas or inflammable
air—The Democratic' Society of this city, are
to meet in the course of a few evenings, to
discuss the critical situation of our country;
from the difmterefted patriotism and extreme
zeai which these grntlemcn are known to
possess, 'tis fairly' to be inferred that they
will be highly inflated on this occanon with
this combuitible air, if therefore the Balloon
is suspended over the Chimney during one
evening's debate, it may be filled fnfficiently
for the ascension and the expence of the
other mode avoiric > —Should this hint ftimu-
3— 1,.-.,
Cotigrefs of the United States.
IN SENATE,
Monday, May 19th, 1794.
The Vice-President laid before the Se-
nate a letter from P. Leganx, praying
thent to patronize his Vineyard,ellabliflied
at a p)3ce called S'prjngmill in the State
of Pennsylvania, which was read.
Ordered, That it lie on the table.
Mr. Vining reported from the com
mittee on enrolled bills, tylat they did on
the 16th instant, lay the following bills
before the President of tli® United States,
to wit: the bill entitled, "An ast provi
ding for the payment of certain expen
ses incurred by Fulwar Skipwith on pub
lie accountthe bill, entitled, " An
ast further to authorize the adjournment of
Circuit Courts the bill, entitled, "An
ast for erecting a light house on the I
sland of Seguin, in the Diltrift of Maine,
and for erecting a beacon and placing
three buoys at the entrance of St. Ma
»y's river in the State of Georgia and
the bill, entitled, "An ast for the relief
of Reuben Smith and Nathan Strong.''
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their Clerk :
" Mr. President—The House of Re
presentatives have parted the bill, lent
from the Senate for concurrence, entitled,
An ast prohibiting for a limited tirfie,
the exportation of arms and ammunition,
and encouraging the importation of the
lame.
"They have pafled a bill, entitled,
'An ad laying additional duties on
goods, wares and merchandize imported
into the United States, and on the ton
rage of flups or veflels," in which they
desire the concurrence of the Senate "
And he withdrew.
The bill lad brought up for concur
rence was read.
Ordered, That this bill pass to the se
cond reading.
The bill sent from the House of Re
piefentatives for concurrence, entitled,
" An ast making proviiion for the pay!
ment of the interest on the balances due
to certain States, upon a final settlement
of the accounts between the United
States, and the individual States," was
read the second time.
Ordered, That this bill be referred to
Mr. Cabot, Mr. Jackson, Mr. Morns,
Mr. Potts, and Mr. Ellfworth, to consi
der and report thereon to the Senate.
A meitage from the President of the
United States, by Mr. Dandridge his Se
cretary :
" Mr. President-—The President of the
United States, this day approved and
signed " An ast further to authorize the
adjournment of Circuit Courts.
Ordered, That the Secretary acquaint
the House of Representatives therewith.
Mr. Jackson gave notice that he should
to-morrow, move for leave to bring in a
bill, to authorize the Prelident of the U
nited States during the recess of the pre
sent Congrcfs, to cause to be purchased
or built a number of vessels, to be equip
ped as gallies in the service of the United
States.
A meflage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their Clerk":
" Mr. President—The President of the
United States hath notified the House of
Representatives, that he this day, ap
proved and signed, " An ad providing
for the payment of ccrtain expenses in
curred by Fulwai Skipwith on public ac
count j" " An ast for ere&ing a light
house on the Island of Seguin, in the
Diftrift of Maine, and for ere&ing a bea
con and placing three buoys at the en
trance of St. Mary's river in the State of
Georgia," and " An ast for the relief of
Reuben Smith and Nathan Strong."
Oh motion,
Ordered, that Mr. Edwards have leave
of absence after Wedncfday next.
After consideration of the executive
business,
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
to-morrow morning.
Tuesday, May 20th, 1794.
A meflfage from the House of Repre
sentatives by Mr. Beckley their Clerk.
" Mr. Prelident—The House of Re
presentatives have pafled a Resolution,
for furnifhing the executives of the seve
ral ttates with a copy of the buok mark
ed A, depofued in theTreafury Depart
ment by the Commissioners who fettled
the accounts between the individual ftatea
Ttnii he withdrew,
The Refolu.iun of the House of Re
presentatives wa3 read,
Ordered, that this resolution lie on the
table.
Mr. King reported from the joint com
mittet to whom was referred the confide,
ration of what buiinefs is neceflary to be
done before the close of the session, and
when it will be proper to end the present
feflion, and the report was read.
Ordered, that this report 'ie on the ta
ble.
The bill, sent from the House of Re
presentatives for concurrence, entitled,
An Ast laying additional duties on goods!
wares and merchandize imported into the
United States, and on the tonnage of
(hips or vessels," was read the second time. ;
Ordered, that this bill be referred to Mr.
Gunn, Mr. Ellfworth, Mr. King, Mr. Liver
more and Mr. Morris, to consider and remort
thereon to the Senate.
The following written meflage was re
ceived from the President of the United
tes by Mr. Dandridge his Secretary.
United States, 20th May, i 79 4.
II Gfnt| emen of the Senate, and of the
Houle of Representatives,
In the communications, which I have
made to Congress during the present session,
relative to foreign nations, I have omitted no
opportunity of teftifying my anx ; et to
serve the United States in peace. It is pe
culiarly therefore my duty a, this time, to
lay before you the present state of certain
hofule threats again ft the territories of Spain
in our neighborhood. -
The documents which accompany this
mefikge, develope the meafurcs which I
have taken to suppress them, and the in
telligence which has been lately received.
It drill be seen from thence, that the
fubjed has not been neglected ; that every
power, vetted in the executive on such oc
casions, has been exerted; and that there
was reason to believe, that the enterprise
projected against the Spanilh dominion*,
was rehnquilhed.
But it appears to have been revived
upon principles which set public order at
defiance, and place the pence of the United
States in the discretion of unauthorized
The means already dcpofited
•n the different departments government,
are /hewn by experience, not tojae ade
quate to these high contingencies,although
such of them as are lodged in the hands
of the executive, (hall continue to be used
with promptness, energy and decision pro
portioned to the cafe. But lam impelled
by the polition of our public affairs to re
commend that provision be made for i
stronger and more vigorous opposition
than can be given to such hoitil- move
nents under the laws as they now stand.
G. WASHINGTON.
The meflage and papers therein re
red to were read.
Ordered, That they lie for considera
tion.
Mr. Cabot from the committee to
whom was refened, the bill, entitled,
" Ah adt making provision for the pay
ment of the interell on the balances ( due
to certain States, upon a final settlement
of the accounts between the United
States and the individual," reported an
additional fedtion, and the report was
read.
Ordered, That it lie for consideration.
Agieeable to notice, Mr. Jackson ob
tained permiflion to bring in a bill to au
thorize the President of the United
States during the recess of the present
Congress, to cause to be puichafed or
built a number of vefiels to be equipped
as g allies in the service of the United
States, and the bill was accordingly read
the firfl time.
Ordered, that this bill pass to the second
reading.
After the consideration of the Executive
business—
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock to
morrow morning.
PHILADELPHIA,
The performance on Monday evening next
for the benefit of Mrs. Warrell, was through
mistake advertised for Mr. IVarrell.
From Correspondents.
Query—Whether it is becoming for
one who never opens his mouth upon any,
even the mod important (übjett, (but to
put a question) to make a long labored
harangue because he happens to be inter
ested ? Would not Jilence on fucb an occa-
:e, —<■
FRENCH REPUBLIC.
We Jt. L. Fonfpcrtius, vice Consul of the
French Republic, one and indiyifible, at
Charleston, in order to prevent the renewal
of the melancholy scenes Which have taken
place in this City, scenes which may destroy
that harmony which exists between the
United States and the Republic, command
all French citizens, belonging to any of the
French vessels in this harbor, to retire on
board of their refpetf ive yejkls immediately
on the ringing of the City Evening Bell,
under the pain of being deemed and punifh
<ed as bad eitizens: We further command
them in the name of the Republic, not to
walk about the flreets armed, under the pains
and penalties aforefaid, and we enjoin all
Citizens, Captains and Officers, to fee to the
execution of this Proclamation, and we re
quest the ass.stance of all good Citizens,
friends of peace, to aid in bringing all of
fenders to punishment.
Given in the C'onfuKhip of the French
Republic at Charleston, &c. ( 30 th April )
FONSPERTIUS.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, May i 7.
Copy of a letter to the Printers of the Dai
ly Advertiser, dated Londonderry, April
" The news of Europe continues to be as
important as at any former period. What
now attraas public attention, is the curious
game which his most sacred majesty of Pruf
iia is playing off with his brother Kings con
joined against France ; he critically flands a
oof, wili.not give further assistance, in his
kingly capacity, until he gets, a vast sum of
money ; as to his solemn treaty, that is out
• , havill g brok <-n one bargain
with the Poles, he hesitates not to break a
notner with the confederated Powers. It is
a sac% that he is nowjiegociating with the
French, and will not fife another mulket a
gainst them unless England pays lum two
millions of money ! And the general re
port is, that our good and gracious King is
flrongly mclmedto comply with this reason
able request of h, S brother monarch-and
foolifh John Bull muftbear the burthen, as
ulual in all German connexions.
" the arts of peace—but be
well prepared for war—and have no connec
tion with Kings and Priests.
" I am, &c."
Another, dued Londonderry, April 8.
in the paper* I fend, you will fee the
MAY 28.
f
substance of the news donctt-ntog the ,Jef«-
tion of the Pruflian monarch a piece of
. news that strikes the adherents of Kin- cr , ft
and Prieft-craft with the utmost ccnflern'a
tion and gives to another party,
hopes of a speedy peace.
" I am, &c."
Extras of a letter from Meflrs. John Bulk
ley and Son, dated Lisbon, j-th Mirtb
to a merchant m this city.
» The wheat (hipped from vour port, if
it continue* to be such in quality as the hit
cargo imported herefrom thcr.ce; it m
into high esteem, command a ready sale, and
a better price than otheis from your Conti
nent, which lhould to recommended to your
farmers, and to clear it of the rye
P. S. March 21. We have just receive!
advice from Algiers, via. C»rthag t „a, down
to the 6th mft. that all the Algerme cruiser,
except one were returned home tired of their
unfile :-efsful cruise, for they took nothing
which is a fortunate circumftanre, and if!
fords us the highest fatisfatfion.
Yesterday arrived a British transport from
Guadalope, with a number of French offi
cers.
Foreign Intelligence.
BY THE
LATE ARRIVAL AT NEW-YORK..
PARIS, March 25.
This morning at 9 o'clock, in conse
quence of the verdict of the revolutionary
tribunal, given yesterday, the following
persons were brought from the prifoa of
the Conciergerie, to the Place de la Re
volution, where they fuffered under thesxe
of the guillotine, 'viz. Hebert, Ronfin,
Momoro, Vincent, Du Croquet, Kccq, a
Dutchman, Col, Laumu-, M. M. Bour
geois, Mazuel, La fioureau, Ancard, Le
Clerc, Proly, Desfinex, AnacharfisCJoots, '
Pereira, Florent Amand, Delcambhs, a.id
Dubuifon, convicted of being the authors
and accomplices of a confpiracv which ex
ited again ft the liberty and fafety of the
people, and against the exercise of the law
ful authority, tending to trouble the (late
by a civil u'ar, by arming the citizens a
gainst each other, the objedt of which was,
in the eourfe of the prelent month, Ven.
tofe, to di'folvc the National Repreienta
tion, to aflafiinate its members and the
patriots, to deltroy the republican govern
ment, to seize upon the fovercignty of the
people, and to give a tyrant to the ilate.
Tl." nioht hpfnre Hebrtt was earned
be,ore ~t,ie Revolutionary Tribunal, he
made an attempt upon his life. The knife
how ever was wrested from his hand by the 4
guard who is placed over him.
The wife of Momoro has been arretted.
She 11 fed to afilft at all the civic fetes m the
charadler of the Goddess of Rtafon.
March 28.
v Further difcoveties are mads every day
with refpedt to the late confpiiacy.
Claviere, brother to the minister of that
name, Vergennes, Lepelletier. Rofambo,
Lstour Dapin, Clevelly, formerly ioten
dant of Orleans, Madame Joly de Floury,
General Ronfin's wife, and fevera! others
were taken up yesterday. The Paris pa
pers contain several observations on the
king of Prufiia's defection. The follow
ing are exfafted from " Les Annales
Patrio'iiques et Literaires."
' I he coalesced powers are reduced to
the neceflity of making a feathering for
the purpose of preventing the defection of
Frederick—England, it is said, will pay .
two fifths of this fubfeription—the empe
ror a fifth—Holland a fifth—and the 1 Im
perial States a fifth—Pitt mult advance
themoney for Holland; but it rem::'ns to be
proved whether Frederick will not prefer
a retreat to a subsidy, and whether other
of the coalesced powers will not demand
subsidies to enable them to remain in the
coalition.'
Gen. Hoche, it is reported, has been
removed from the command of the army
of the Mufelle, and Gen. Jourdan appoint
ed in his Head.
FRANKFORT, March 27.
, Should, the King of Pralun perfilt in
His plan, and withdrrw t]j<* Tn?r?f
the surplus of his contingent of 20,000
which' remain here, the Gc rinanic empire
is threatened with inevitable rain ; the
Auftriana, with the army of the empire,
will never be able to defend us efficiently,
and save us from the deltrtiction which th<?
Dutchy of Deus Fonts, the Principality
of Saarbi lick, that of .Layen,and the great
er part of the luxuriant and fertile Palnti
nate, have experienced. The army of the
empire, newly raised, cannot be on their
march before the end of the fumrficr, and
even then cannot be well organized or of
great utility.I-tbwrrrr, for the present, notwithftanci
tng our defencelefs rtate, our danger is not
great. The enemy are very weak, having
cnlv 25 or 30,00 0 men in their intrench
mcnts behind the Qmecli. Strong detach
ments of cavaliy and artillery have been
sent to their army of the North and to the
army employed in Vendee.
The French cominilfioners having com
pleted the object of the million have at
length quitted Frankfort to return into
their own country.
BRUSSELS, March 25.
The precipitate and nnexpedled depar
ture of liis Royal Highness, the Arch
duke, for Vienna, hasjuit put us into the
lit mod surprize. A thousand contradic
tory, even ridiculous leafons, have been
affiled for it—but the cause believed to
be simply this :■
That at tlie General Council, held at
ith, where tl\e plans for the operations
if the campaign, brought by the Count
le Haddick, from Vienna, were fubmit
ed to the General, one of the fettled
>arts of the plan was, that Gen. Clairfayt
hould command the advanced army over
:he Duke of York. To this his Royal
Highncfs politiveiy objected. A difcuf
and two meetings were held, at which
Prince Charles and Lord Elgin affilted,
in In pes of fet'ling the affair, but with
out f.iccefs. The D ike of York perse
vered fn demanding to have the chiefcom
mand of the army in Flanders, under the
diredtion of the Prince de Cobourg.—
The debates were extremely warm, and
personal altercation rose, it is said, to a
violent height, infomili-h that the Duke
of York, in confecjue'ice of some words
"between the Prince of Saxe Cobourg and
himfclf, declared that the British troops
'{hotild not at\, until he had taken the
di r e£tion of his Court ; Lord Elgin,
after a long conference with his Highnrfs
at Courtny, set out fqr England. Prince
Charles had appointed 9 o'clock in the
morning of Friday last, for his depar
ture, but it was retarded until midnight,
or. account of his Chamberlain, the Count
de Werterlaw not having returned from
Valenciennes, whither he was lent on a
fpeci'ii million to M. de Cobourg.
We have an unfortunate piece of news
here—lt is said that the King of Pruflla
is determined to make a frparare peace
tfith the French Republic, and that his
troops are retiring into the Martjraviates
of Anfpach and Bareuth. This iill e
vent is confirmed by the letters received
this morning from Frankfort.
OSTEND, April 2.
We exped fomeihing very extraordina
ry within a few days. Our Generals
think it necefTary to take precautions a
gairtft any th : ng that may happen. Ac
cordingly, not only the (tores and the
gr.ateft part of the provifjons, but all th f
h<;avy baggage of the army is to be mo
ved to Antwerp ; and all the fliipping of
any value are ordered quickly to leave
Oftend harbor. They already talk of
evacuating the Flemift' and Celgic coun
try.
PARIS, id Germinal (sprout month.)
Chabot, since he attempted to poison him"
felf, has confan'lv refufed to take any nou"
lifhnient. lie has be"n removed to the In
firmary of tlie Conciergerle.
The military Committee of Bourdeaux
has, in addition to it r former sentences, 'ately
condemned to d. arh Duval, a Ci-devant Coun
ftllor of the Court of Aids; La Roque,
Knight of St. Louis; Morin, Brigadier of
the armies ; Bacque, a Physician, and Louf
tan, a non-juring Priest.
Our Revolutionary Tribunal has juil sen
tenced to death 20 peribns, almost all of them
belonging to the Department of Nievre
Letters have been this day received from
Berlin,which aflert, that the King of IVufiia
IllnTo not t0 L fl,rnlfh a n "gle man to
imUf h ~ e r yond his ccnt i"gent,
unlcis his demands are complied with.
MENTZ, March 14.
\Ve have positive assurances that the
trench, after having plundered all they
rould lay their hands on at Spires, and laid
wifte a great nvmber of the houses belong
mg to the emigrants, have laid on that city
a contribution of 400,000 livres, under pe
na.ty of fire and ravage. The inhabitants
are entirely ftrfpped of the poor remains of
their property and as, notwithstanding this
last effort, they have been unable to muster
10 large a ium.they have fuppliedthe defici
ency as far as they have been able, by provi
sions and forage for the French army. The
wretched inhabitants of Spires arenow plung
and' mCredib ' C *** ° f d ' ltrdi
April 3.
We have authority upon which we can -
rely, to afiert, in oppolition to all the
Guillotine prints, that his Prufiian Majes
ty will not withdraw his power from the
general alliante ; but, on the contrary,
that he will bring more troops into the
field this campaign than he did the last.—
[Dublin Journal.}
LONDON, March 26.
It may be depened upon as certain, that
the King of P, our great, faithful,
humane, and good ally, will give no
more affiltance in the war against France.
This country may even be thankful if
that virtuous monarch avoids taking an
active part in favor of French Republi
cans.
It is rumdured that Prussia is not the
only power that has (hewn fymptoma of
defe&ion from the grand alliance. Spain
too, it is said begins to think, that its
bed policy will be to take care of itfelt.
March 29.
By an exprtfs which left .Portsmouth
lalt night we learn that Lord Howe had
in the afternoon made the lignal for all
Captains, and several Line of battle-fliips
and frigates were immediately ordered for
sea. Their probable object was the relief
of Jersey, which seems to be seriously
threatened.
Further particulars Jersey.
Captain Bennet dates, that of the
troops embarked on the coast of Franee,
is advanced as far as Choifey island, with
in five leagues of Jersey ; and the scouts
belonging to Jersey have seen a valt num
ber of troops on Choifey Island; and
have been fired at by them. A great
number of flat-bottomed boats are also
there,-and they are forming entrenchments
and magazines upon the island, to retreat
to in cafe Jersey Iliould hold out longer
than- they expect.
Capt. Bennet brought 50 women and x
children of the principal families.
Lord Elgin, si.ice his arrival 111 Lon
don, has communicated a final determina
tion of his Pi'ullian Majcfty, but we are
given to understand his LordlhipL has
been empowered to mfiiiuate, that the fu
ture services of the King of Prussia may
Jtill he obtained—oll certain conditions.
Should, however, his Majeffy be pleased
......finance, we
•annot conceive, when we reroll.-cl the
■allowing pafTage in this treaty, hy what
moJe ot reasoning he will juftify him
felf.
" 11. Their Majesties the King of G
Britain ant! the King of Prussia, recipro
cally promise, not to lay down their arms
but by common consent, without having
obtained restitution of all the conq.iefts
which France may have made upon ei
ther or the two contra&ing parties, or
upon fueh other of - the powers, friends
or allies of their said Majellies."
Our letters from Brufiels fay, that iuft
as the port was setting out, accounts had
arrived, that on the 27th inft. an attack
was made on tTie French Camp, near
Cambray, by the Anftrians, upder the
command of Col. Maek, of which we are
promuTed details by tjie next mail.
Eight thousand ar.d sixty French pri
foners,ranfomed at Frankfort by the French
commiflaties, pasTed through Cologne, on
the 17th, on their way home.
The Ruffian navy in the Black Sea, is
at present in a very refpedable condition.
1 here are in the ports of that sea 24 (hips
of the line, befidcs a great number of vef
fe!s of fmajler forcc.
Mondy,in the floufe of Commons, Mr.
Grey ,aid, 1 here was one quetion which
had been particularly put by ibme honorable
friends of lus, and which had not yet receiv
ed any anfwei 1 from Ministers—ii was ref
pedhng a rumour that prevailed every where
for some days part, and was received with
every appearance of a truth—He meant the
plain-tjueftion, « Whether the king of Prus
sia had, or had not, withdrawn from this
confederacy of the powers allied aga nft
France ? and thus left us engaged in I def
truihve and expensive war, after taking
M U h S Part of the im P°«
which he was bound to give." He consi
dered the whole of this as requiring from
i s importance a speedy discussion ; in hopes,
herefore, that it would s oon come before
the house, he would not now detain them
longer. —Mr. Pitt remained iilent.
April
Jn our paper of Saturday we slated, that
™ the™ ] j ad l J" ded about 18,000 troops
on the i..and of Cliaufe, which lies about 8
leagues from St. Malo, fix leagues from Gran
ville, and fix from Jersey. The official ac
counts received on Saturday, make this force
amount to 20,0.0 men. There are 34 f a fl
of thf line, and three French frigates lying
in Cancale Bay, besides three more frigates
cruizing off Chaufe.
April 4.
In the house of Commons on the firfl inft.
the Chancellor of the Exchequer said, he was
sorry the house was not fuller, but he mull
now give notice of a fubjedl of Confiderible
importance. It might in the cou'rfe of the
next campaign become advifeible for his
Majesty to avail himfelf on the continent of
the afliftance of Frenchmen who are willing
to be employed in his Majesty's service there,
and that this was likely to be to a very con
siderable extent; and he lhould move for
leave to bring in a bill on Friday for that
purpose.
The French iteet, according to an account
brought to Weymouth by the matter of an
American vessel arrived froin Brest, has failed
in three divisions ; the last division consisted
of seven fail, and one frigate. This divilion
steered an easterly courle on Friday last,
when the master quitted it.
Britijh Army in Flanders.
St. Amand, April i.
On Wednesday the 26th ultimo, the
army of his Royal Highness the Duke us
York was put in motion. The guards
and heavy cavalry marched from Courtray
and its environs to Peck. The brigade
of the line from Menin to Courtray.
On the 27th, the guards marched to
this place, and Haifnou, aftid the brigade
of the line took up their quarters at Peck.
On the 28th, the light cavalry and
brigade of the line, marched through
here to the different villages in the neigh
bourhood, where they are at prefcnt can
toned , and the park of artillery march
ed frofrl Courtiay to a village near Tobr
nay ; and on the 29th to le Cello, which
was the quarter alloted for them.
On the morning of the 29th, a heavy
can nonade was heard from the Cambray
quarter, which proved to be the Carmag
nols attacking the the village of le Ceteau.
At firlt they were fuccefsful from their
great number, which is reported to have
been above twenty thousand, and cart ied
two batteries; but the Auftrians aflemb
ling a con fiderable force of cavalry before
they could well form their line, attacked
them with such impetuosity, that they
were put into confufion, and driven off
w it'n the loss of five pieces of cannon,
five hundred killed, and about one hun
dred taken prisoners.
Prince' William, of Gloucester, is ar
rived here. . "
ue al
PLYMOUTH, March 30.
Jult arrived the packet from Guernsey ;
she iailed the at which time no at
tempt had been hiade on either of the
iflanas, but fays, that they were constantly
011 the watch in expectation of an attack
from the French.
There was a smart press yesterday on
the river forfeamen : and, in many of the
avenues to the town, several hundred were
picked up, and put on board the receiving
ihip at the Tower.
I he alarm beacons, and long flag ftaffs,
now erecting 011 the SufTex and Wsftern
coasts, are on a similar plan with those,
which were established round the whole
coast of France immediately on the com
mencement of hostilities, between the two
countries.
1 he Hefiian troops as well cavalry as
infantry, lately stationed on the Isle of
Wight, are all reimbarked on board the
transports, and are to proceed without de
lay to Oftend.
The major part of the Britiih regiments,
Compofi"g Lord Moira's army, are in the
vicinity of Southampton ; which town, it
is said, will fliortly be made his Lordfliip's
head-quarters.
LONDONDERRY, April 8.
In this day's paper we have impartially
collected evefy article relative to the alledged
extraordinary conduct of the King of Pruf
lia, and the following seems to be the fub
itance ; Ihe miniflerial prints confidently
aflert, that his majeily will take the field this
campaign with a greater force than he did
lalt year ; and insinuate, thot it would be
prudent to give him his demand, two mil
lions of money, rather than lose his alliftance
On the other hand, all the other papers
concur in stating that a negociation is cer
tain yon foot between the Pruflian monarch
and the Trench Republic, and that his maief
ty will either retire from the war a ltogether
as a principal, or he will hire 30,000 of his
troops, at 301. a head to England ! A short
time will ftiew which of those opinions is the
true one. In the mean time, the campaign
has not yet seriously commenced—before this
day last year, much human blood was flied.
V ' J O
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Ship Catherine, M'Culkm, Oporto
IJng Mary# jamming, St. Croli
Fame, Swafey, Cbaflefton it
Schr. Rangtr, Berilon, Egg-Harbour j
Hetty, Ruby, Norfolk j
Frederickfoutg.packet', Anderfon
Virginia 4
Eagle, Burden# Ditto
Phebe, Smith, Martinique 24
Dolphin, Watfoti* N. York 5
Nancy, Collin, Virginia 4
Sloop Three Friends, Bunker Ditto
Abigail, Oran, Portsmouth 12
Mriry, Webb, New-York 8
Sixty seven vefTels have cleared at the
Cultom-houfe, since monday last.
advertisement.
LETTERS on the Jubjedl qS the Wash
ington Lottery, being by mistake repeatedly
addressed to the CommiffioDers for the City
of Waihington,
Persons conc«rned are hereby informed*
that all such Ihould be addressed either to W.
Deakiris jun. of Wafnington, or to the Sub
scriber. The comminioners never having
contemplated any further concern in this
bufmefs, than in their afient to receive the
bonds and approve the names of he mana
gers. The prizes have been paid and are
paying on demand by W. Deakins, Wafh
mgton, Peter Gilman, Boston, and by the
Subfcriberi
For the Lottery No. 2, the securities al
ready given will be retained by the comtnif
floners, or transferred by them at their
option to the Bank of Columbia ; and the
Commissioners will be consulted refpeiting
a judicious and Equitable disposition of the
lioufes to be built thereby ; their treasury or
the Bank of CoKimbia will receive the mo
ney intended for the National University,
and they will be consulted in the nomination
of the 34 managers; but all the responsibility
refpeaing the general disposition of the tic
kets, and payment of prizes, will reft as
in thl Hotel Lottery, oil the persons whose
names are and may be hereafter publilhed as
ailiftants to forward this business with
S. BLODGET.
Philad. Ma'
Cincinnati of
ennfylvania,
May 28, 1794.
A STATED mfeting of the (landing Com
mit f e - will he held on Monday evening next
at 7 o'c ock at the Concftogue waggon, fy
rangeinents for the4th July being nec fLry to
be formed, the members are requested punc
tually to attend.
JOSEPH HOWELL*
Secretary pro Tem.
<?4t
NEW TH£ATftE.
Mr. Whitlock's Night.
THIS EVENING,
.May 28.
On account oF the Indisposition ot
Mr. Fennell—the Tragedy of JULIA,
is changed for that of
JANE SHORE.
End of the Play, a humorous vocal PARO
DY, on Shakespeare's SEVEN AGES,
by M,. Bates.
End of the Tragedy, a new Comic Pastoral
Ballet, composed by Mr. Francis, called
L'Amour trouue les Moyens ;
Or the
FRUITLESS PRECAUTION.
By Mons. Belona, being his third appear*
ance in America, Mr. Bliflett, Mr. Bar
ley jun, Master T. Warrell, Mr. Francis,
Mrs. De Marque, and Madame Gardie.
To which, will be added,
(Written by the late David Garrick,) a Co
medy in two a&s, never performed here,
called -
BON TO N;
O R
High Life above Stairs.
Sir John Trolley, Mr. Whitlock
Lord Mimkm, Mr . Moreton
Col. Tivy, Mr ./Cleveland
Jeflamy, Mr . Harwood
r Vy H M- -U- Mr " Bates
Lady Minikin, Mrs. Shaw
Mils Tittup, (with the song) " the
Soldier tired." Mrs. Oldmixon
lickets to be had of Mr. Whitlock, the
corner of Fourth and Mulberry streets, at
the ulual places, and of Mr. Franklin at the
Theatre, where places for the boxes may be
taken. 3
Mr. MARSHALL'S Benefit will be on
Jb riday.
A As"vfUT Tliri" Kr Shaker P eare '
AS YOU LIKE ,1 f, with a Comic O
pera, called HARTFORD BRIDGE
or the SKIRTS of a CAMP. '
Mrs. WAKRELL's Benefit will be on
Monday next.
Places in the Boxes to be taken at the Box
• uC 0 ■ Theatre > at any hour from muc
in the morning till three o'clock in theaftert
no ° n V n the day of performance. Ticket l
to be lud at the office near the Theatre, a.
M r °Tp lxt h-ftreet,and at Carr & Co'*
Musical Repofjtory, No. x i 3) Market-ftrcet
d—3t.»;uladelpMa, March, i i7«M
fUST PUBLISHED, m
B/ MATHEW CAREY, *•
No. 118, Market jlreel, t
FIRST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF „
Modern Geography: *
O*, A 0
Geographical, Hijlorical, ana «
Commercial Grammar-, m
And present ftatc of'the several a
NATIONS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAINING,
1. T , h»* figures, motions, and distances of lr
the planets, actording to the Newtonian fyf £
teui «md the latest '
2. A general view of the earth, confitlered L
asaplapqt; with several ufeful geographical P
definitions aod problems.
3. The grand divifnns of the g'obe into t
land and wafe', c»vitinei and jiftands.
4. The situation and extent of empires,
kingdoms, ftareii, provinces and colonies.
5- Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, nietils, nvnerals, natural curi- '
ofities, seas, rivers, bays,*-apes'., promontories,
aud lakes.
6. Tnt birds and beafls peculiar to each
xounti y,
7. Observations on the changes that have
been any wbe'e observed up" - the face oi na- j
ture (i-ice the ttioft earjy periods of history. f
8. The 'liftory andorigij of nations; then
forms of government, religion, laws, reve
nues, taxes* naval and military strength.
9. The genius, manners, customs, and ha
bits of the people.
to Their language,learning,arts,fcieutes,
manufactures, and commerce.
*11. Trie <hies cities, fli u&ures, ruins, and
artificial curiolities
12. The longitude, latitiide, bearings, and
diftaiices of pri- cip i! places from Philadelphia.
To tuhtch are added,
t. A Geographical Index, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged.
2. A Table of the Coins of all nations, and
their value l'lidollar"- and cents.
3. AChronolosicai Table of remarkable
events, from the creation to the present time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Efj.
The Astronomical Part corrected by '
D>. Kittenhouse.
To which have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herschell, '
and other eminent Astronomers.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrected, Impro- ed, and greatly Enlarged.
The firft volume contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, besides two Allronomical Plates,
viz.
i. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the world.
3. Europe. 4. Asia. 5. Africa. 6. South
America- 7. Cook's discoveries. 8. Conn
tries round the north Pole. 9. Sweden, Den
mark, and Nurway. :0. Seven United Pro
vinces. 11 Austrian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12- Germany. 13. Seat of war
in France. 14. France divided into depart
ments. 15- Switzerland. :6. Italy, Sicily,
and' Sardinia. 17. Spain and Portugal.
18. Turkey in Europe and Hungary. 19 Ire
land! 23. Weft-Indies. 21. Vermont. 22. Ar
miliary sphere. 23. Copefnican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
the press, will be given the following Maps :
1. Ruflia in Euiope and Alia.
2. Scotland.
5. England and Wales.
4. Poland.
j. China.
Hindoftan.
■J. United States.
8- Britilh America.
<j. State of New.HampOiire.
jO. State of Massachusetts.
IJ. State of ConneShcut.
j 2. State of Rhode liland.
j3- State of New-York.
i - State of New-Jerfty.
1 j. State of Pennsylvania.
16. State of Delaware.
17. State of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
20. State of N ■rth-C.iroHua.
21. Teniieffee Government.
22. State of South-Carolina.
23r State of Georgia.
terms.
1. This-wofk will be compriled in two vo
-1 umes.
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (56 cents for boaids.)
3. They may receive the fuceeeding volume
In twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when fiulihed, at
th<r fains price as the firft.-
4. The 'uMcription wi l be raised on the firft
da" ol June 1794, to fourteen dollars, ex
clusive of bn ding,
5. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fdld at
sixteen dollars! and the price of binding.
6. The names of the fubferibers will be pub
lifted as patrons of American literature,
arts,and fciencej. ;
It is wholly unnecessary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American leaders, that this edi
tion poffeflei.over every imported edition of
any system of Geography extant. The addit
tion of maps of the several (late, procuied a
a very great expense, and from the bell ma
terials that are attainable, fpcaks fnch full
couviftiou on this fubjea, that it would be
difrefpeA to the reader's underftandmg to
fupp jfe it requifire to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its Superiority. In no
Similar wuik have fucli maps bteaever intro
duced.
-p;,-eni-tvlit'anj and additions which ar
made >■ this work,areirinum«r*i,hnd occiu
in every uage. The public are referred to
the preface for a flight (ketch of a few of
them.
The publilher takes the present opportn- .
nity of returning his mnft fiocere thanks to
tliofe relpiOiblc iharafters who have favored
him with documents ffr improving the maps
of several of the flares. He requests a conti
nuance of their kindness; and hopes that lueh
public spirited citizens, as are poflelTed of fi
inilar dncunit-nts, will tavor him **ith their
affiflance in perfeAing his undertaking-
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he has been labored, has excited
in his breast the warmell lentiments of grati
tude—lentiments which time will not efface.
He pledges hi:nlelt to the citizens of the
United States, to spare neither pairs nor ex
penfe t" r ender the present edition of Guthrie s
Geography improved, deserving of their pa
tronage. waftf
-WO T I C E.
THS OFFICE of the Secretary of State is
removed from High Street, to the New Build
ings, thr corner o'l Sixth & Mulberry ft'eets
May 15 ' ,w
S NO E S.
A quanrity of stout well made Men's size
SHOES, adapted for the Southern market, for
sale at
No. 36, North Third Jireet.
May 6 mw&fjot
NANKEENS.
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
FOR SALE AT
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April 11. mw&ftf
ESSENCE
For the Tooth-Ache,
Prepared and fold by Dr. Lee, Golden-
Square, } London.
THE public is o-Fe ed one of the most
efficacious and fafe medicines, thiit ever ap
peared, for that most excruciating pain, the
Tooth-Ache—the numerous instances of its
happy effects, in relieving the afflidtec|, have
now brought »t into u iiverfal elliination ; it
not only relieves the toothache, but is of the
utinnftT«? r viee in curing the SCURVY in the
Gums, in preventing the disagreeable smell
that s produced from unsound tee h, & wi U
occalion a sweet breath j it like wife
the teeth from decaying, and will tv found
a general preferveroi' the Teeth and Gums
Said in Philadelphia only at
Poyntell's Stationary Store,
No. 21, Second street.
April 24. tuth&rs 3W
T'he Ground Plan
, OF THE
City and Suburbs
OF
PHILADELPHIA.
I TAKEN FROM ACTUAL SVRFEr.
IT is with pleasure that the publilher has t. I
intorm his fubrcribersand the public in gene
ralj that the plate ,s now under tile hands of
t.iie engrave .and in greater forwardnfs than
was at fi< ll contemplated. At the iame time
he begs leave tor mind them, til t fubfuip
tion papers are still open at most nf the noted
book-ftn es in the city ; and that he hope
fromtht whole of them to be enabled to so m'
tuch a re'peftable catalogue of names, as wil
do a eyed it to the work, as well as afford a
reaTollable encouragement to the undertake-
Th >te who are dnlirousof further informa.'
tion are requested to call on
Benjamhi JDavies,
Ho. 68, Market street.
A P ril H m&thH
freafury Department.
Revenue-Office, May Jth, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given, tha, Proposals
will t e received at the Office of the Comm f
fioner ot the Revenue, for Ship Timber of
the following kinds, suitable for the building
of the Frigates authorized by Law. A par
ticular detail of the sizes and proportion! will
be communicated, on application at the said
Office.
IVhite Oak Timber and Plank.
98 Pieces of various Dimei fions, includ
ing Keels, Floor and Rising Timbers,
&c. for a Veflel ol 140 or ico feet
Keel.
27,00 a Feet of Plank, Scantling, Wal
w pieces, Bilge St'eakr, Clamps, stc. &e
gj 200 LOgs, for various ul'es.
Pitch Pint.
25,000 Feet of Plank for Decks
U 2.0 Beams, from 42 to 28 feet long, and
I from 10 b y 12 ,0 'sby 18 inches thro'.
tn 53,000 Locust Treerails, 18, 24- and qo
inches long.
5 000 Feet of Inch and half-inch Cedar
v Boards.
30,000 Feet of Yellow Pine Boaids and
Scantling.
Persons willing to fuoply any part of ttie
T" ' 'fflher for one Ship, or in proportion
the who 1# fix, will make their P ufals
. ccordiDgly. t r
The Public are cautioned to
beware of counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
fever id of which have appeared in circulation
with: - a few days pajl; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, but may
be diflinguifhed by the following
MARKS.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared have the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Papier is thicker and
whiter and it takes, the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is smaller
than'the M. and other letters of that word,
so that a line extended from the top of ihe O,
to touch the top of the M. would extend con
fiderabfy above the range of the whole word.
In the word United the letters are narrow
erand closer together than thsreft of the bill
The i and fin the word promise are not
parallel, the yinclining much more forward
than the i.
The engraving is badly executed,the fttokes
of all the Letters are stronger and the device
in themargin particularly is much coarser and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some
ot the counterfeits bear date in 1791—Where
as tho Bank was not in operation till Decern
ber, and no five dollar bills were iffueti in
ihat year.
Twenty Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark. ,
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the couuterfeit Five Dollar Notes
above defciibed ; the engraving is Jurttei cxe
ucted, and they approach nearer to the apr
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twen
ty, iir the body ot'the bill, ate tn number th 1
teen in the genuine b.lls, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Bills as defer ibed a
bove, the « being lets than them, and otheis
following.
There is no stroke to the t in the word North
wheraas in the genuine bills the stroke is well
defined.
The Jetters ent in the word Twenty, to the
left hand at the bottom, do noi come down to
the line, but are lo cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the 'l w and tlie> go
ing below them.
The signature J, Nixon, has the appear
ance ol being written with lamb-black and
oil, and differs from other inks uied in
printing the bills and the calhier's lignatuie.
It is supposed thete lingeries were committed
in lome of the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come irom
thence, and two pcr-ton? .oni client:. _
Ed in Vnginia,ou suspicion of tctng the author
of them.
The reward ofo.V£ THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Perlon or Perlons who fball
discover and prosecute 10 convi&ion the several
offenders of the following defrriptipns or any
of therp, viz.
The person or persons, who manufactured
the paper on which the Bills are printed.
The person or perlons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
Every person who has acted as a pr ncipal in
any othei wa7, in the counterfeiting and utter
ing the said bills.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794
April 22, 1794,
Other counterfeit bills
of the B:ink of the United States have appeared
in ci 1 culation.
The denomination is of TWENTY DOL
LARS,and the alphabetical mark is tie let
ter B.
They may be diftinguilhed from the genu
ine bv the following MAPJCS :
The paper of the counterfeits is of a more
tend 1 texture and glofley furface than the
genuine, and there is no water mark in them.
The letter C.. in the word Calhier, in the
true bills is strongly marked, whereas in the
counterfeits, the whole letter is a fine hair
troke, evidently in an unfinifhed state. The
etter a m the woid demand, is badly formed
and the whole word ill done, and there is no
comma at the end of it, as there is in the
genuine bills.
th ""T h ma * device, is much darker in
, h ln the genuine bills owing to
t 1 e being coarser, much nearer
m 1 r '~r consequently much more iiu
view!" difference (b ikes the eye at si. lt
nmr [l"!® rrwar <l of ' ONE THOUSAND
DOLLARS, will be paid for apprehending, &
de'fcnCOff" ri tonv,ftio " ,he
THOMAS WILLING, Piefident
of the United States.
JOHN NIXON, Prcfident of 1 the
Bank ol North Amcrtca.
By order of the Committees of the Res.
peflive Boards.
~ TO BE
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
TN an eligible situation,—also a Country Seat
A within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 4! acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded bymany in the vicinity
ot the city, in size, or convenience.
For particulars apply to the printer.
m&ttf
Beef, Pork, and Butten
BEEF, prime and cargo of Rood quality
PORK, prime and cargo of do.
BURLINGTON PORK
BUTTER, in firkins
ALSO,
A CARGO OF
MAHOGANY,
Landing at John Weft's Lumber Yard, near
Pool's Bridgi, from on board the Fail Ameri
can, ftom the Bay of Honduras, and
3000 bulhels of Good Wheat,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 35, No. Water Street.
Ma y 1 5' dt 2s
Just Published,
A one handsome volume, i2mo. Price 5s
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, Wo. 41, Chefuut
Street,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
TeyJerian Society at Haarlem.
Corrected and Enlarged.
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN
D. D.
ProfelTor of Moral .Piiilofophy, and the Law
of Nature, and of Ecclefiaftital Htftoiv ; ■
and Minister of the Englilh Chuich at u'.
trecht.
Aliquid semper ad communem utilitatem af
ferendum. Cicero.
The Firjl American Edition.
THEgrand principle of Equality, if right
ly unde;ftood, is the only basis on which
universal justice, fa tied order, and perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
]y secured. The view of it exhibited in this
efTay, at the-fame time that it reprefles the
insolence of office, the tyranny of pride, and
the outrages of oporeflion ; confirms, in the
most forcible manner, the neceffiry of subor
dination, and the just demands of lawful au
thority. So far indeed, from loosening the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and ev&ry civil diftinftion,
draws more every social tie, unites in
one harmonious and juflly proportioned fyf-"
tern, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of hufnan na
ture, of reciprocal obli ation, and of a com
mon relation to the community.
March 18. tuts
STATE or SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representatives,
—
WHEREAS the Commiiliontirsof public
Accounts, h ve reported, that they can
not proceed 10 the in eftigation ol the Treasury
Accounts, refpe&ing fptcial Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation Therefore,
Rejolvedy That all holders of special Indents
be directed, and required, on or brfoie the firft
day of November ri xt, to deliver the fp.cial In
dents in their poffrffion to one or other of the
Commiffioneis of the Trealury, who arc to give
receipts for the fime, and to report to tbeCom
miffioners on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
then* refpe&ively received, and also to the Le
gislature, at their meeting -n November next,
and that all special Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, IhalPbe, and the fame are
hereby barred,
Rejolved, That publie.notice of this refutation
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And 'hat the Delegates of this
State in the Congress of the United States, be re
queued to cause this rtfolution to be published
in otic or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
n-.ade for the cxpenccs attending such publica
tion.
Ordtrtd, That the resolution be sent to the
Senate sos their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SANJ'ORD DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
December 21(1,1793.
Resolved, That this House do concur wub the
Houie of Representatives in the iorego'.ng reso
lutions.
Ordered, That the refutations be lent 10 the
Houfe.ot Representatives.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov*
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, N«w-Y»rk
THE Subfctiber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b. gs lca»e to of
f r bis fervicesto his lriends and otheis, in the
line ol a Stock Broker. Those who may pteafe
to favor him with their buftncls, may dtpcud
upon having it tranfa£fcd wiih the uimoft fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Bcifton, or any -
other part ol the United State-, will lit fttiQly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&thtf
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 3
South Fourth-Street- \
/ * ,-i