E V E Kf T NCr AD VERTISER.
[No. 39 of Vol. V.]
"n kNAVfcjWMro* 4n'tri»rtl «hc Srij.fajh'.
* lilt4t piltßtl with Hit'|Mnl4%i'
bad on wbcn W* »e»>l»»»{»y r : » alwuif
j tkct, Mae trawler}, » round Tur 4m, til«eks
handkerchief, tvy» (hact .wijh. /q-iiirc plated'
buck In. ihr f«id I.ad, fa
lhai tv* niiftcr (nay r«t'fc'nr*ga<n, flwil b» en-*
. t.itl«l lo tjtf ibove. rewind. ' ' ,
Ciptjiii WILLIAM PAtTi,, i
Norihrrn Liberties.
N. B. AH Matters ol vefteU are fprbid rarTy
ing him off, or anv pprfon harboring' said boy,
at they may expect to be dealt with according to
law.
j» n -
War Atlas.
This Day is Published,
(Price Two Dollar/)
By MA THE W CAREY,
No. 118, Market-jfeet,
A Colle&ion of Maps,
Including the whole of the various Seats of
the preleftt War in Euiopt and the Weft-
Indie*. vir.
AP o* the United Provincrsrtf Holland,
IVA Frit Hand, Groniengcn, Overyffel, GeU
ders, Utrecht, and Zealand.
2. Map ol the French, Dutch, aud Austrian
KcihevUndi.
3. Map of France divided into circles *nd
departments.
4. Map ot Spain and Portugal.
5. Map of Germany and Switzerland,
6. Map of Italy.
Map of the Weft-Indici.
N. B. Any ot the above Map« may be had
(c pirate.
Said Carey hat lately published
Account of Algrris—With a Map— i/ioj-
Account of the Malignant fever, 4th edition—
3/9— Dr. Naffy'a Treat ife on do.—l/ioj.
|an. 55 4' " w -
" ADVERTISEMENT.
VitliniAy Korlhumbci/and Lount\, Die. 28, 1793*
FOR SAL Hi
A Valuable Trafit of LAND,
in tilts county, containing about eighc
hundred aere*, one fourth of which it low
grounds, of excellent quality; thv other three
fourths is high tapd, well covered with oak,
hickory and chefrtut
The fttuation It pleasant and hrahhy, on Yro
• omico river-, about three miles irom the Polo
mack. There i«'>nii a two ftoty brick dwel
liog-houfe, with four room* and a 011
tach floor, eielufive of closets ; a Road kitcbcn,
and oihei necessary out-houfca It has orchards
of apple and p'ach trees, and ii well watered
by marry delightful springs. The terms may be
known on application to the Honorable JOHN
HEATH, in PhtladcVphia, or to the fobfciibcr,
living on the prcmifes.
J*n. 10. dtf
Insurance Company.
Philadelphia, January 6, 1794-
NOTICE is hereby given 10 the member!
of the fnfbranee Company of North-
America, that the Direaorrs have declared a
dividend (for the lad fix months) of six pen
Cent, on the amount of the firft and lecond
inlUlrncnti; and of one per cent per month
on the funis paid in anticipation of the third
instalment, calculating from the fivft day of
the month following that, in which those pay
ments were made. Thr dividend will be paid
to the Stockholder";, or their rcprefentativer,
at the company's office, No. 119 south Front
ftrect, at any time after the 13th instant.
By order of the Directors.
EBENEZea HAZARD, Secretary.
Jan. 9. w&f.im
Robert Campbell
No. 54, South Stitnd-Jlreet,
Seconddoor b--low the corner ol Chefnut-ftreef,
HAS IMPORTED,
fey the late arrivals from Britain and" Ireland,
A large and general AJfortment of
New Books and Stationary,
"Which will be disposed of on the lowest terras.
Dec. 23. mw&r tf
ALL persons having any de
mand* agatnft the eUate ol GfcORGE
WIBLE, late ol the city of Philadelphia, biker,
are rcqucftcd to bring in their accoiHits. properly
authenticated and rtiofe who are indebted, are
dc&red' to make immediate payment.
HENRY REES, Aminiftralor.
finuary 13.
"NEW 800
Now opening for Sale,
By M. C A R E Y,
No. 118, MARJJET-STREET;
A large and valuable collection o{ BOOKS,
inported from London in the Mehawk.
Dec. 19.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
: 0
IN an eligible fituatioiy—alio a Country Seat
within 6 jnilcs of the Catyy with 9 acres ot
land, or 42 acres of land and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vrcinky
iyf the City, in size or convenience.
For terms appiy to the printer.
January 23 m&th—-tf
la and in cases of 50 bottlea each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine >
Rack of the New L'brary, between Chefnut
and Walnnt-Streets.
George Rutter,
Respectfully infomu hii frr*«ds and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying 011 the bnfinefs ol*
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting*
Likewise, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window-lhutters,done in tltc most
elegant manner, and with diipatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
recei Ted. and duly attended to' v
December )p, > dtf
United States Register,
For the Year 1794.
Frmed by Stewart and Cochran, No. '*4.
South S<rcond-ftrcet,and John M'Culloch, No. 1,
North Third-ftrcet, awl 10 be fqld by tbem a»d!
thf booksellers.
SOUTH SECOSD-STRtET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
Sin elegant Ajfortmnt of
SILVER iff PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY (if Ji*e CUTLERY,
Which they will difpole of on the most rea
fonablt term's. Devices in-* hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and filvcr
way, done as usual.
December 24.
TOftV COR pov
jaw3w.
s.
Monday,
Excellent CLARET,
MADEIRA,
In pipca,4ioglheadi and cpiirtcr casks,
FOR BALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. 11Sooth front -tUeci.
Jan. 1,1794. dlf
NORRI S-COU RT»
This day is pubh/bed,
THE
J«». 18.
Palry and Mufgrave,
Goldfmitbs Jewellers,
No. 42,
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1 794. 1
NOTICE it hereby given, that there will
be paid at the Bank, after the sixteenth
mftant, to the Stockholders or their repiefen
tatives, duly, authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty cents for each (kare, being the dividend
declared for the last fix-months.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN, Cafoier.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by
Thomas Dobfon,
Price three eighths of a Dollar,
" An Enquiry into the principles
and tendency of certain public
measures."
January 16.
Treasury Department,
NOTICE ia hereby given, that propofats will
be received at the Office of the Secretary
of the Treasury, until the 6ih of February next
iuclu(ive, for the supply of all Ration! which
may be required during the present year, at the
fcveral places of rendeivoui hereafter mention
ed, lor the Recruiting Service, viz.
At New-Brunfwickj-in New-Jerfcy;
At Philadelphia, Y
At Lancafler, > io Pennsylvania.
At Reading, )
The rationa to be furnllhed arc to corifift of the
following articles, vix.
Onf pound of bread or flour,"
One pound of beef, or J of a pound of pork
Half t> jill of rum, brandy or whisky,
One quart of fait
Two quart, of vineg.rf
'Pwo pounds ol soap t r
Otoe pound of ctttdUi)"
Jan. 9.
nuary 27, »75»4-
'■■!
<p" Complaints having been made that
the Bouthefn fufifcrlbers for this Gazette
do not receive it, till the intelligence hag
been anticipated hf papers previuiifty rc
cf.ited by other persons; they are inform
ed that the regulations at the Port Orifice
in this city require that Printers lhoitld
deposit their papers there, th« day prece-|
ding the departure of the mail; news*
papers being,, oil account of their bulk,
lent by the it age 8, which set off several
hours before the mail is closed, occasions
this arrangement, for the winter.
Persons at a dHlance who' wish to re
ceive' this Gazette, are informed that She
terms of fubfeription' cannot be dispensed
with.—One half of the fubfeription' mo
ney, for the half-weekly pa;jar lately print
ed and circulated by the JicUorioall parts
ps the Union, is yet due, either from the
fubfciibers, or colle&ors—and as the pub
lication of a daily paper is attended with a
beavy expense—however solicitous the
Printer may be to disseminate intelligence,
(t will appear, that pcrfifting inhis former
plan of fending his Gazette to every per
son who writes for it, without securing
the fubfeription* will prove ruinous in the
extreme.
The Editor rfioft eartrsftly requests those
who are indebted for his late publication,
to make immediate pay meat—.particularly
those who have received the arrearages
from will recolle& that
repeated afiurances on this point, have not
been realized.
Friday, January ij, 1794..
The Senate resumed tfcte confidwation
of the fnbjeA of amendment# to tfce con
ffitution of the United States, an J after
<kf *
debate,
On motion,
It was agreed, that th« further cosfi
devalion thereof be po {Iported.
Agreeable to the order of the day, the
Senate proceeded to the confidt;ration of
the motion made ; That the
doors of the Senate chamber remain open
uryder certain re(lri£tion»—and
On motion,
It was agreed, that the further consi
deration thereof be postponed until Wed
nesday next.
mw&ftf
On motion,
That the Senate adopt the following
order
" That' the Secretary of State be di
rected to lay before the Senate, the cor
respondences which have been had between '
the Minister of the United States at the
Republic of France and said Republic,
and between said Minister and the office
of Secretary of State."
Ordered, That this motion lie until
Monday next.
The Senate resumed the confideratfoh
of the motion of the Bth of January inft.
That the Secretary of the Treafuiy lay
before the Senate, certain- flatements of
the public debt, and,
On motion,
Ordered, That the further confidera
tlon thereof be postponed until Monday
next.
dtw
The petition of Andrew Graydon-,
chief clerk to the Treaforer of the United
States, was presented and read, praying
further compensation for his services.
OVdered, That this petition lie on the
fable.
The Senate adjourned to 11 o'clock
On Monday morning.
Monday Jan. 20.
The petition of Thomas Person arid
- others si committee, on behalf of them
selves and the other purchiafers of lands
in the ceded territory south' of the Ohio,
referring to a petition presented to the le
-1 giflatiire of the State of North-Carolina,,
praying for redress of certain mallet's
therein contained, was presented and rend.
uwi6F.
CONGRESS.
In SENATE,
[YVlioie No. 41;7,j
Ordered, That this petition Kef oi( the
table.
On motion;
It v&s agred that the motion made oti
the 17th instant, that the Secretary for
the Department of State, be directed t(J
l4y before the Senate, the correfpoßden
ce« which have been had between the Mi
niftei'nf the United States at the Repub
lic of France and said republic, should be
farther poitponed.
Tile conliderntion of the motion made
on the Bth instant, that the Secretary for
the Department of Treasury berequefted
to lay before the Senate certain ffat.ementf
of the public debt, was refurried, and be
ing amended, was adopted a$ follows :
Ordered, That the Secretaqr of the
Treasury do lay before this House, thef
following ffaterflents, to wit J
Fit ft. A statement of the domefcc debt
of the United States as due on the ill day
of January 1794, fp'eeifyl'ngunder diftinft
heads:
f ft. The funded debt, diftinguiihing
the fix cents, three per cents and de
ferred nock, ancf in each kind of stocky
ftSting separately, the amount created by
th« afiumption of the state debts;
2d. The regfiftered debt,
3d. The debt fubferibatfe to the loait
of the United States, but which not be
ing fujided or registered at the Treasury,
is not entitled to a dividend.
4th. TliC balances due tocreditor dates
and already funded, if there Be any fucfly
being the excess of the sums refpe&ively
by fe\V assumed for such States, above the
sums actually fubferibed in the debts of the
said States.
5 th, The dornefttc' loans for 6i(h corr
trafted since the commencement of the
prefeirt government, Hating the refpeclive
times wnen borrowed and when becoming
due,' Aith the rnf- of rrrtereft.
6th T All other kinds of dorneftie debt*
not fpccially included under the five pre
ceeding feeads, for rhe payment of -.vhioh'
no appropriations have been made.
Second. A ftaternent of the domestic
deßt redeemed fmce the eoir.r'.cncement
of the present government, to the firft
dav of January' 1794, diftingnifhing the
different l'pecies of debt, and fpectfying
the node of redemption, and when re
deemed money, the imoxint of monies
expended In purchafirtg the fame'.
A general statement of the'
foreign Abt of the United States as due
on the Ift day of January 1794, ffating
separately, the French debt, the other
debt's coontracled before the commence
ment of (he present government, and the
loans contracted since' that tiiiie ? and fpc
oifyrng in each debt or loan, the original
amount.- the time from which the interest
commenced, the payments already made,
with the dates of the fame, and the places
where paid, the amount yet due, and the
refpeftive tunes when the fame (hail be--
come- due. t
Fourth. A l'pctifi; accormt 6f the ap
plication of tlie monies obtained upon fo
reign' loans, contrafled since the com
mencement of the prefeiit government, to
the Ift day of' January 1794< Hating the
amount of the rr.oilies drawn over to A
merica, and* of those applied in Europe,
together with the dates of ft!all applies'
tions ov dra ts.
Fifth. A fumtilafy ftateihent of tfie ac
tual receipts and expenditures from the
commencement of the prefsrit govern
ment to the last day of December 1790,*
including all monies received on account
of the United States, such parts of the
foreign loans as have not been drawn
over to America only excepted ; dif
tinjniifhing the monies received under
each branch of the revenue, and tlic mo
nies expended under dach appropriation,
and ftatintr the balances of each branch of
O
the revenue remaining unexpended on
the thirty-fivft day of December 1790
fpecifyiiig fepirately such balances as were
on that day in the Treafary, and such Mwere ;i!icoui,/":ed or-ln the hands of any
banks, officersor other persons. %
Sixth. Similar and fepavate ftatemetits
for the years 1791 and 1792 respectively,
and so far as the fame is rtow prafticahk
for the year 1793, fpecifying separately,
in each ih.tement, under each branch of
the revenue, the monies received oil ac
count of the revenue of that year and
those received on account of tilt-revenue
of each preceding year, and dating so
fir as the fame is now pra&ifcable, the
amount of all monies,; bonds or securities
on hand, on the firlt day of Jan. 1794,
with the times of payment of such bonds
or securities.
The Senate adjourned to i I o'clock to
morrow morning.
Foreign Intelligence.
LONDON, November i
DECLARATION
6f the Grand Master of the Sovereign
Order of Malta, to the court of Na
. pies, dated Sept. 38, 1793.
/ THE Court of Naples having caused
to be notified to the Grand Master of the
Sovereign Otder of Milta, that not will
ing to have any thing further to do with
those who at present govern France,it sent
away all the agents of that country, who
had hitherto relided at Naples, or at the
parts of his Sicilian Majeily, his Eminent
faighnefs took the earliest opportunity of
fyHowing' that example, and of ordering
the ports of Malta to be {hut agninft all
kinds of French (hips of war or privateers
as long as the present war (hall continue.
• The Grand Mailer wishes to make
known at the fame time, that (5 nee the no
tification which the late king mr.de to him
erf the acceptance of the constitution of
1791, the government of Malta has had
no relation with France. The dreadful
troubles which have broke out in that
kingdom, and which have deprived it of #
Sovereign universally regretted, and the
violation of the rights of nations, which
have been permitted there under every
point of view, in regard to the Sovereign
Order of Malta, have induced many per
sons", not acquainted with the fundamen
tal laws of this order, to think that re
prisals ought to have Seen made ; but
these laws even prescribe neutrality in all
those quarrels which arise between the dif
ferent Chriuian nations. The .Grand
Master, however, fully determined not to
acknowledge the pretended French R. in
the person of an agent which it might
fend to Malta, ordered, on the 15th of
March lad, the Chevalier de Sevtrcs de
Caurnont, in his quality of member of the
order and of its delegate, who had resid
ed long in this island as charge d' Affaires
of the King of France, to retain the title
which he held from his Majesty Louis
XVI. of glorious memory, and to keep
the arms of the king over his fate, which
he has hitherto done, under protection
of the government of Malta. •
But (he Grand Master learning through
an indirect channel, that a person named
Aymar has been appointed to fuceeed the
Chevalier de Caumont, and that he is now
on his way to Malta,' formally declares at
present that he will neither receive nor ad
mit the said personage, norany other who
may be fer.t to ref;de at Malta, as agent
in any refpeft, of the said pretended Re
public, which his Eminent Highness
ought not, cannot, and will not acknow
ledge,
A gentleman lately arrived from Pan's,
and who had been several times in compa
ny with' "f. Paine the Outlaw, declares
that he is in daily expectation of termina
ting his Career by the guillotine, to which
he has made up his mind. His voting to
fend Lpuis XVI. to America, is the cause
assigned, which renders him a fufpiciou:
charaftir there.
When the verdiA was pronounced up
on, BrifTot and the Deputies, they requeu
ed leave to. speak themselves, or to be heard
by their defenders. As it was believed,
that this requefl was made with a view of
delaying the sentence, and as the accused
had already been heard, the Tribunal re
fufed to accede to it.
Sillery was the firft who fuffered by the
fatal engine. Several, addieifed the peo
ple, particularly Briffot.
The execution, of each of the Deputies
was announced by a discharge of eight
pieces,of cannon placed on the road to
Chr.illon.
BrifTot was the last of the Deputies who
were executed.
"the French are breaking up the graves
in all the churches, in order to make even
the'dead contribute to tlfe expencee of the
war. The lead coffins are converted into
1 bullets, and the copper ones lent to the
mint.
When our letters came away from I
Frankfort, there was a report of a pitched
battle having been fought, near Stras
bourg, between the Auftrians under Ge
neral Wurmfer and the French Army.
This report adds, that the French wot
defeated with immense (laughter, and se
veral thousands of them taken prisoners.
S:ia(bourg is said to have opened its
gates to the Allies immediately after this
defeat, we (hould be glad to hear those
reports however probable they are, offici
. ally confirmed. ,
A detachment from Lord Hootrs
ffeet at Toulon, has we ur.derftand, betn
sent to Tunis, to take poiTeffion of the
{hipsof war and merchant vefiels belonging
to the French in that port.
November 14.
To the Sitting of the 29th. the Jaco
bins of Paris presented a petition to the
Convention, requesting that Trials be ter
minated whenever the Jury (hould declare
themselves fatisfied with any part of the
evidence brought forward. The Conven
tion granted this requcft, which was also
backed by the President of the Revolu
tionary Tribunal. The Jacobins solicited
this Decree, from an left
Briffot and his Accomplices (hould enter
into too long a defence, and, by the pow
er of their eloquence, mak« an impression
upon the Judges.'
In the Sitting of the 31ft, the Con*
vention learned from their Coinmiffionefs,
that 500 men were employed in razing
the fortifications of Lyons.
In the fame Sitting it was decreed, that
the women (hould no longer be permitted
to aflemble in Clubs.
The Prince of Saxe Cobourg is one of
the most extraordinary, as well as one of
the greatef! characters of the age. To
great profundity of thought, he unites
the ntmoft cheerfulnefs and hilarity of
manners. Being middle-age, (hort, and.
inclined to corpulency, he has a jolly ap
pearance, heightened by a "Habit of laugh
ter, which he indulges inceflantly. He
is remarkably fond of drawing : but does
not confine himfelf to plans of sieges of
battle. On the morning of his firft en-,
gagement with Dumourier, Clairfayt ha
ving paid this General a visit, is said.to
have found him diverting himfelf with
(ketching a caricature, of which Clairfayt
himfelf was the fubjeft. To have (elect
ed such a time for such an employment 1
roust have appeared strange ; but the
Prince had previously arranged the neces
sary dispositions for ensuring his success.
LAST MOMENTS of the LATE
QUEEN of FRANCE.
When (he heard her fenter.ee read, (he
did not (hew the smallest alteration in her
countenance, and left the Hall without
fayiilg a (Ingle word to the judges or to
the people. It was then half past four in
the morning, Oft. 16. The Queen was
conducted to the condemned hold in the
prison of the Conciergerie.
At 5 o'clock the Generale wa9 beat.—
At 7, the whole armed force was on foot;
cannon were planted on the squares, and
at the extremities of the bridges, from
the Palace to the Square de la Revolution
—At ten o'clock numerous patroles passed
thro' the streets.
At half pad 11 in the morning, Marie
Antoinette was brought out of the prison,
dressed in a white dishabille. Like other
malcfaftor6,(he was conducted upon a com
mon cart to the place of execution.
Her beautiful hair from behind was en
tirely cut off, and her hands were tied be
hind her back. Besides her di(habille,(he
wore a very small white cap. Her back
was turned to the horse's tail.
During her trial flie wore a dress of a
white and black mixture.
On her right, upon the cart, was fcnt
ed the executioner ; upon the left a con
stitutional priest belonging to the Metro
politan Church of Notre Dame, drefled
in a grey coat, and wearing what is com
monly called a bob wig. The cart was
escorted by numerous detachments of horse
and foot. Henriot, Rouflin, and Bou
langer, generals of the Revolutionary ar
my, preceded by the reft of the ftaff offi
cers, rode before the cart.
An immense mob, especially women,
crowded the streets, insulting th,C Queen,
and vociferating " Long live the Repub
lic!" She seldom cast her eyes upon the
populace, and babeld with a cold iudiffe
rence the great armed force of 39,000
men, which lined the streets iri double
ranks., ,
, The fufferings which (he sustained dur
ing hdr captivity had much altered her ap
peal ance, and the hiir on her forehead ap
peared as white as snow.
The Queen, without anguiih or bigo
try, was ipeaking to the Prielt seated by
her fide. . Her spirits were neither eleva
ted nor depreffed;—(he fcemed quite i
sensible to the fliouts of " Vive la Repub
lique !" She even (hewed a kind of fatis
fa&ion in looking for the moment which
might rid her of her miserable existence;.
When she passed through the street
called Rue St. Honore, (he sometimes at
tentively looked at che iufcriptions of the
wi>rds LIBERTY and EQUALITY,
affiled to theoutiide of the houses.
She ascended the fcaffold with seeming
haste and impatience, and then turned her
eyes with great emotion towards the gar
den of the Thuilleries, the former abode
of her greatness.
At half past twelve o'clock the guillo
tine fevered her head from her body. She
died in the 38th year of her age.
The executioner lifted and (hewed the
blood-streaming head from the fouv differ
ent corners of the fcaffold, which is (hewn
only from one fide in all other common ex
ecutions. The mob instantly vociferated,
" Long live the Republic I''
A young man who dipped his pocket
handkerchief in the Queen's blood, and
pressed it with veneration to his breast,
was instantly apprehended. Upon him
were found the portraits of Louis XVI.'
and Marie Antoinette.
The corpse of the ill-fated Queen was
immediately after buried in a grave filled
with quick lime, in the cliurch-yatd cai'led
de la Madelaine, where Louis XVI. was
buried in the fame manner.
November 17.
We are sorry to hear that the Coura
geaux of 74 guns, one of the British vcf
lels engaged in the ast ion before St. Flo
rentz, inCorfica, then received so nvch
injury that she funk before (he could reach
a port to. refit ; the crew, with roost of
the ammunition, &c. was however previ
ously removed. The Courageaux \vm a»
oldvefftl, having been taken from the
French in the war before the left.
Letter written by Monsieur to M. le Mar
chal de Broglio; dated Ham, Nov. i,
desiring him to fend a popv of it to all
towns, in which emigrants reside.
" Gentlemen,
" 1 have this instant deceived the news
of the horrid outrage which has'terminat
ed the days of the Queen, my fiftcr-in
law. The grief and indignation which
if excites in me, can be allayed only by the
concern you take in it. True Frenchmen
and faithful fubjefts, we ought in a two
fold degree to feel the horror of thjs crime
It is by redoubling our zeal-for the ser
vice of our young and unfortunate King,
that we can one day render fucli losses less
grievous, and efface the (lain which mon
gers would imprint on the French name.
Such 1 am well convinced, are the senti
ments which animate you. Such are these
which my brother and I will prtferve till
|we breathe our last sigh, and such is the
end to which all our efforts tend.
" Accept Gentlemen, the afTurance of
my fentimcnt* towards you.
(Signed)
Lcui. t Stanislaus Xav'itr
A very large French frigate of 42 guns
is taken by a Spanish 50 trim (hip off Cape
Ortugal, and lent into Cadiz. Both (hips
fuffered much in the adlifin. The French
man is named Rcuiliilone or Rollignolej
FRAN C E.
SITTINGS OF the JACOBINS.
O&ober ji. t
"Dubois Cranee asserted, that a force of
such magnitude as 60,000 men was not
wanted to reduce Toulon. Twenty thou
sand men, vvith a large train of artillery,
would be fufficient to produce this effect.
One hundred and thirty pieces of artil
lery were on their way from Lyons to the
army before Toulon. " With 20,000
jnen, and this fitpply of cannon," exclaim
ed Dubois Crance, " I will answer for
the reduction of Toulon."
November I.
A letter from Perpignan was read. Ey
this it appeared, that 30,000 men, eager
to fight the Spaniards, were encamped
under the walls of Pcrpignan ; that the
National Deputies, ailed with great pru
dence, and combatted in common with
the foldiera-the enemies of the Republic 5
that, the* Spaniards were entrenched chin
deep at Boulon, but that the Republican
troops. were neveithelefs resolved to Itorm
then- entrenchments.
Tlie Representatives of the People in
the army of the Eastern Pyreunees, aflur
ed the Society that the troops would soon
enter Spain. The'pofitiort of the Repub
lican arir.y was in front of Bellegarde.
Frefllnet, in a letter from the army of
Italy, informed the Society, that the ma
gazines received large and daily supplies of
Ito.res. He also acquainted the S>>ciety,
that a sortie had been made from-Toulon
by 6000 men, who advanced to the vil
lage of Lagard. After a vigorous contest,
the English, he said, were defeated, with
the loss of the Eoglilh General killed, and
hi» nephew made pvifoner.
PLYMOUTH, Nov. 13.
By letters received here, we have ad
vice that Earl Howe's fleet are cruizing
off the Lizard ; some of the (hips have
received damage, which will cause their re
turn to port very soon.
EDINBURGH, Nov. 7,
Yesterday was (hipped on board the
OfnabuVgh cutter for Oftend, 5000 flan
nel vests and 2000 pair of foot socks for
the use of the British at my in Flanders ;
and from the profpeft of the lubfcT!ption
still going *on, a very considerable addi
tion is expecled. The vsfisi fails tc-mor-
row.
LEGHORN, October 20.
Hitherto we had seen only single {hips
belonging to the Englift squadron in the
Mediterranean enter our harbour. Three
Engliih (hips of tjve line, mounting 74
guns and 650 men each, turo f igat-.s ef
32 guns and 220 tnen together with a
French frigate of $3 gu:is 3n:! 300 men,
commanded by M. Van Kempen, are at
length aft-rived here.
These ftips brought several copies of
the Proclamation addressed c.i the 27th
ult. to the people of France by Vice Ad
miral Don Juan De Langara, Conrpand
er of the naval forces of his Catbciie Ma
jesty at Toidan.
AMEBIC A.
KINGSTON, (jam.) Nov. 30.
Information is receivedby the Felicity,
from St. Thomas's, that in confluence of
intelligence from France, the ruling'pow
ers at Martinique and Guadakiupe hating'
seized and condemned all veiTeh belonging
to Denmark and Sweden, lying at these
ports.
The Spaniifi flifpi of war at Potto Ca
vrJ!o have 6000 troop* on board.
The operation of the Spanish force in
tended to ast agafnft the French part of
St. Domingo, is retarded by the sickness
of the'troops, rrtare than 1500 of whom
ar; reported totally Unfit for duty.
Last nifcht arrived heir the Penelope,
Captain Rowley, from a cruize. In thfc
Bite tsf Leogane Cap*. Rowley y fell in
with, and engaged L'lnconftant, a French
frigate of thirty fix guns, which, after a
few broadsides, struck to tire Penelope,
and may be expected at Port Royal thi»
day. The Penelope had one man killed,
ope inidfh'pman and lht men Wotmded.—
L' Inconstant loft the ftcoud Captain, two
Lieutenants, and twelve men killed, and
had 12 men wounded. Tbe wounded
midshipman of the Penelope has loft his
arm.
CHARLESTON, J.in.t.
Ext raft of a letter from a gentleman iu
Cforgin, to hi? friend in this c'i'-.
" TVc people, h_re have jot recruhinjr
mad, for the French service to go sigat,:ft
Weft-Florida, Atrgu'h'ne,- and Ntw»CTr
leans. Cel. K ,is to command a le
gion ; Col. P , a battalion : Meflrs.
O. C. Slc. are Captains t« Co!. P's bat
talion. They httVe ciiliftcrl upwards of
thirty of ttie militia troop of Ijorft, no\r
in ft nice, in Gieer. comity.
NEW-YORK, January 32.
• We hear with plerf-rre t'ut try? tntr*
faftiire of glass in is now earned
on with-great faefcefs. Th;
produced there, in tleamcfs'and.
tranfparcnev, an* of tS«. inr/onid glsA,"
and some of the most elc.-ant huikSir.ga t
refted rn that town it; lafl
glazed with it,November 2d, 1753.
* I consider it a mrtft fprtuiiaW circuto
ftance, a particular favor us Frov'iifenee,
that you have a WASHINGTON to
preside in the councils t>f AmerrcA ; fWr,- J
in the novelty Of yojr political fituatioi:,
the influence of'his nafce is-a ftrqager c ce
ment of union, tha'rt all tfe prfrcf.M'etiV
checks and forms us government, which
the wisdom of your aloleli patriots qoukl
devise. Sutcefcful in the fiffld, and firm
in the Cabinet, his character impreflis a
fanftion of authority ; nor can the most
malignant of his vsry few cite ones find any
colorable pretext for dt baling his fteding
Worth- It <ti"T not fee infppofite to recal
your attention t.) an incident Aili frefh on
our memory. TSu&giiat and good man
was principally instrumental in defying
the excciltion of the sentence upon Algill,
the unhappy object defignsted by lot to
at.me so. the murder of Capt. Huddv,
and bv this means contributed to save a
life- forfeited by the hard laws of retaliati
on—■; (id trio' every indulgence, and every
de'icstw, compatible with his situation was
extended to him ; yet this pqrfon not ou- i
ly violated the diftatef. of good breeding,
by neglcftittg to acknowledge his obliga
tion, but propagated or countenanced in
this 'country, the propagation of reports
asiTlTiberal as they were untrue. Time has
however undeceived all, and his character
emerges f.'om that opprobrium with ten
fold litftre. si only mention this to shew
that inftaccJes of infratitv.de on this uae !
° *
the water, as well as among his country- !
men are not wanting to pervert the public
fentiinent, and traduce a name too sacred
and venerable for tnaliee to endure. lam
teirpted to mention one inftir.ee of the
happy eonfequences refill ting ast well to
you as to lis, from the elevation b'f Wafn- j
ington, tp the Prffidency 0. the Utttpo,
though with some the reputation of it may
fmTer an abatement by participatiau..—
The utility however of a council I; readily
acknowledge, arid Conceive it 1 provil'.on
wifely adapted tci preclude intemperate
resolves. The fa& is this : Early
Jaft .f J2\msr, while!'*. »et remained un
certain what part the United States would
a'F.ime in the Europe' l a troubles, and pre
vious to the arrival of official dispatches
avowing vwr neutrality, an idea was a
dopted h :re<-fcur!ded upon r< , porta of your
gc:jers9 "AlflHef rrf*nt t<j French principlej
and pol't'cs, that you would embrace the
cause of France, and declare agaiiijl their
enemies. In confeqneiiee of this, and
some iadirefet communications, a cabinet
council was furnmoned, and measures hos
tile to out peaceable intercouffe resolved
on. It is said that a meflage to this pur
part was sent to Mr. Pinckney, who wait
ed on the miniver, remonstrated against
any precipitate determinations, and de
manded a delay of a few days, or till the re
ceplion of expected dispatches iihould ena
ble him to declare the ultimate decision of
your government. i hii tt'aa agreed to.
A velfel speedily irrived it one of the out
ports and brought the important procla
mation, which Mr. P. officially communi
cated to the ministry, and Was the happy
means of reletting both nations from an
impending calamity. Had tlr.s declarati
on of the President not been made, or had
it been delayed, our good understanding
would probab! v long ere now havebeen inter-
Tupted*; and instead of an intercourse, mu
trtally advantageous, we (hould be involved
in a'l the horrova of war." J
Domrjiic Jmullhencc:
'0 ;r own hemisphere is very barren of
.JgteUigencc. One important article how
ever, must not be omitted.—The French
Minister has written a letter to the Presi
dent of the United States, in which he
.fer.ios iiis authoring the arming and levy
u/g.fi nun within the United States ; ye't
in" the lame breath frankly owns that he
}i 4'« giv'tn corhmiffions to fame republicans
in South-Carolina, who intended to expa
triate themftlvs j that is, abandon their
country. This letter the President has
laid hofere Congress.
This letter unfolds the plan of Mr. Ge
f.ct—lt seems an expedition against the
Spaiiifh Settlements was intended, and .a
f.>rce for this purpose has been raising in
South-Carolina, under commissions from
Mr. Genet. This plan was kept as secret
us* podible, but being detested, its pro
gress is happily checked. A febeme of
this kind would have been attended with
one of these confequirices. —Eithdr Spiin
would have immediately declared vtar a
i-[\ the' United States; or finding the
scheme was not countenanced by govcrn
ment, (lie would have demanded an in
demnification for all the miichief and lois
which thefs expatriated renegadoes might
•have done to her territory. This, (he
would have had a right to receive ; so that
the scheme,. if it had not involved us in a
war, would have colt us, perhaps millions
of money-.
It is with pleasure we learn, that foreign
powers speak rffpedlfully of the firmiufs
with which the American government has
maintained its neutrality, during the pre
sent war.
The following is translated from an Affl
fterdam paper, of the 4th of Nov.
" This day ait cxprefa arrived at the
Hague, with aeconnts-that the Count of
de-laTonr, had Attacked the French near
Marchietine ; killed 4000 and'took 1200
prisoners, with- the greatest part of their
artillery and baggage." ~
The famous equestrian performer, Mr.
Rickets, has lately commenced his feats
in Charleftnn, South-Carolina,
PHILADEL PHI A,
JANUARY 27.
The Charge again ft the Members of the
Convention, executed at Paris,concludes
with the following comparative Itate-
tnent
Mr. Pitt The Dsrurixs
Wished to degrade Attempted to do
and to difiolve the fame.
Convention.
He wifned to as- The Deputies
faflir.ate the Members procured the affaf
of the Convention. filiation of Marat &
Le Pelletier.
The deputies did
all in their power
to produce tliis cf
feft.
He \vi(hed to de
stroy Paris.
He wished to arm The deputies ob
jjll nations against tained a declaration
France. of war against all
nations
In the intended Carra and Briflbt
partition of Franca, Altered into a pa-
Mr. Pitt wished to negyric of the dukes
procure a part for the of York aud Brunf
duke of York, or wick, and even went
some other branch of so fat as to propefe"
h's mailer's family. them for kings.
He endeavored to Thedcputiethave
deitroy our colonies, produced the de
ftrudUon of the co
• lonies.
Brit Tot, Petioo,'
Guadet, Genfonne,
Vcrgniaud, Ducos,
and Fonfrede, di
rected the measures
relative to the colo
nies, which measures.
reduced them to the
most lamentable si
tuation.
kotithonax and Poiverel, the guilty com
rhiflioners who ravaged.the colonies witk
lire and sword, are their accomplices.
Proofs of their corruption exist in the cqf
refpofldence of Raimond, their creature.
Of the numerous facts of which the
faction are accused, some relate only to
particular individuals j the general conspi
racy, however, is attached to all. ,
From this ast of accusation it refultcd»
that,
I. There exifled a conspiracy against
the unity and indivisibility of the Repub
lic, the liberty and fafcty of the French
people.
11. That all the individuals denounced
in the o<ft of accusation are guilty of this
conspiracy, as being either the authors of
or the accomplice* in iti r
The jury of the revolutionary tribuaal,
to whom these fa£s were iubmitted,
brought in their verdict at eleven o'clock
at night, un tKe 30th October.
They were declared to be the authors
and accomplices of a conspiracy which had
existed against the unity and indivisibility
of the Republic, and against the liberty
and security cf the French People.
The President of the Revolutionary
Tribunal immediately pronounced the sen
tence, decreed by the Constitution: —•
That they ftiould fuffer the' punilhment
of death—that their execution should take
place on the subsequent day, on the Flace
de la Revolution—that their property
{hould be confifcated, and that this sen
tence should be printed and pofteti tip
throughout the whole extent of the Re
public.
At i I o'clock, A. Mi the execution
took place.—The streets were lined with
soldiers, and every precaution taken to
prevent the dillurbance of the public tran
quility.
\ vti ....
Read ttt the Hcufe of Representatives the
21ft injlant.
Philadelphia, Jan. 21ft, 1794.
Sir,
IN purfuancc of an inftruftfon from the
Present of the United States, I have ex
amined the letters written by Mr. JefFerfon
to Mr. Hammond. "The letter of the sth
of December, 1791, having been, by mis
take, omitted in the cofleftion of paper*,
sent to Congrefi, at the beginning of the
feflion ; I beg leave to inclose a copy of
it, through yon to the House of Repre
fentativis.
I have the honor, Sir, to be*
With great refpeft, *
Your mod obedient fervarit,
EDM i RANDOLPH.
'tie Speaker of the
Houfi of Repfefcntathves.
Philadelphia, Dec. 1791.
JMr. Jcffer/on, Secretary of State, to the
Miuijler Plenipotentiary of Great-Britain.
Slßj '
YOUR favor, of November 30, re-'
mains Itill unanswered, because the clerk»
are employed in copying foma documents,
on thefubjeft of the treaty of peace, which
1 wish to exhibit to you, with the an-
fwer.
In the mean time, as to that part of
your letter, which refpe&s mMtfers of corrl
mei ce, the fear of misunderstanding it in
duces me to mention my sense of it, and
to ask if it be right, where' yoa ar« pleased
to fay, that " you are authorized to com
municate to this government, his majeily's
readiness to enter into a negociation, for
eflablifhingthat intercourse (of commerce)
upon principles of reciprocal benefits."—
I understand that you are not furnifhed
with any ccmmiffion, or express powers,
to arrange a treaty with ÜB, or to make
any fpecific proportions on the fubjeft of
commerce; but only to afTure us that lui
Britannic majesty is ready to concur with
lis in appointing persons, times and places
for commencing such a negociation. Be
so good as to inform me if there be any
Tnifapprehenfion in this, as some steps on
part may be necefiary in confeqnence
of it; I have the honor to be, &c.
TH: JEFFERSON.
SHIP NEWS.
Arrived at this Port.
Ship Morning Star, Campbell^
Afrivdl at New-York.
Ship Swift, Steel»
Brig — ,
Scho'r Harmony, Peatrea,
Rambler, Barnard, , Boston
Sloop Uunion, Hammond, Norfolk
Marick, Merchant, Newburyport
The (hips Belvedere, Talbot 5 the El
lice, Hervey ; the Fd£tor, Brown ; and
the brig Lively, Duff; have arrived at
Londonj.
The Hazard, Delany, for Boston, lay
at Deal on the 14th 6f Nov.' to fail firft
fair wind.
We hear that the cargoes t>f the brigs
Phcebe and Fair Lady, both of Philadel
phia, were coedemned at Bermuda ai
French property.
London, Nov. 14.
The Baltimore, ——, from Maryland
to Bourdeaux, was taken by the Prince of
Wales privateer of Liverpool, oil the Bth
ult., and sent for Montferrat.
The Rcbecca, Brown, from New-
York to Havre de Grace, with sugar,
coffee, &c. is taken by the Dolphin letter
of marque, and carried into Guernsey.
,The Nabby, Kennedy, from Leith to
Virginia, is loft on the north of Ireland.
The crew and eight paffengcrs landed
near Loughfwilly. , .. .
Tbe George and Harriot, Prince frottS
Havre de Grace to Philadelphia,' i» on
ftiord near Barfleun
November 16.
Captain Haftie, of the Friends Good
will, arrived in the river from Faro, fpnkfc
off St. Vincents, the brig Sally, of Portf
ffiOuth, New-England, theri in pofleflion
of the Algerines; the commantkr said,
that several other American veffeb were
taken. ...
(C/" The Adjourned Meeting of the
Stockholders in the Insurance Com
pany of North America, is to be held
. at their Office To-Morrow Morning at
Ten o'Clock.
Extra& of a letter,- <lated Havre, 28th
O (Sober.
We have now to advise that a decrci
flaring been rendered for taxing all th(
goods of firft necefiity f and most of th<
American products being reputed as such,
several American merchants and captain!
that were here, went to Paris to folicil
mericans ; they were told by the minister,
that the intention of our Convention was
not to injure property of foreigners with
which we are at peace.
That Commissaries would be appointed
to purchase the goods that are American
property, and thslt even the goods that
may hereafter arrive, will also be bought
at a prite that will leave a profit to the
proprietors. So that Americans may al*
ways find an open market for the good*
they will import into this country.
The James River Canal is now so far
completed as to adfnrt loaded boats to
coaie with ease and fafety, within about
one thousand yards of the city of Rich
mond.
After reading and■ referring a few peti
tions—the house in committee of the
whole; proceeded in the confideraticm of
Mr. Madison's resolutions;
, Mr. Ames spoke in opposition totlienj,
}iis fpcech continued tils hear ij Schick,
when the committee ft>fe, and reported
progress—and the house adjourned.
United States Register,
A CALENDAR, with thr necessary taKles
xl fined for the latitude cf liie principal townj
in the United Spates; utUation, extent; population
and GOVERNMENT V. Si
SuPKiHE Executive,
LtCIJtL ATI/ A *,
JtfbictAßY,
Lift of Councilors admitted to pra£l»fe id
the Sopi erne Coiirt.
Do. of Atiornies, Do.
£ tfrc ut 1V E Branches,
Department of State,
Miriiftera and Con'tils or. the Uriited State!
Ip fotfeign nations.
Do, of foreign fiatidni rctidcnt in the
United State*.
tjfePARTMifJT OF THE TftEA*U*Y,
Piinfcipals and Clerks of ihc rcfptflivfe of
fices;
Commiftiohers of J.oans,
Officers of the tuftoms, with their rfcfpec
tive diftrifh and ports,
Officers of the Excile, with thcif refpe&ivc
diflri&s and fur«eys,
Lift of dutiable Articles, See.
Abftraft from the revenue laws;
Statement of the public debt,
—* . - bf Light-houses,
—— of appropriations for the support
of Gove*nn>eot.
i)fcPARTMi.NT 6* Wa* 3
Secretary's office,
Accountant's,
Monthly pay, occ. of she army.
MiNt Establuhmint,
Officers,
Abftraft from the laws relating (o cdinagt.
Post Offici Es±ablisfiM*NT,
Qfficers.,
Abftrafb ffom the law eftabllfhing tfle ofifrre
Lift of p«ft tbwns, with ilieir rrfpc£frw
xiiftancfcs as cftablifhed by the Poli-Maf®
rer Hi-ncral.
Oftend
90 days.
Cork
Cadiz
Wilmington
IxTitco* and of the prin
cipal towns io the t'n.led Siatts and
viciriiiy.
Banks,
United Stares,
Jjorth Ameiica;
State bahks with their capitals.
LittßAß* Jristlf utiOKS.
American Philosophical So.iely, Ac
American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
Nation/! M/KBfAcroii at Poierloi,
N. J.
Sessions of th* Courts of the United
Stales
]Wisst m n Territory
Stats Governments.
ibflraft from the couttittftion of Hch Q.>te
principal nfßccri, cxecitlive, kg.Gative 2nd
judiciary.
Wiling
Officers of the Banks, capital;* dates tif in
corporation; pciiods oi limiutioh, ex
tent of property; &c.
ijiiivertttiesj Colleges and Acadefhies,
Societies, fciennficj huttiam , politic#!&c
Exbibiii ng in as general and comprehrnfive »
view as poltible ibe mtefnal police, the ftaic
of literature, arts, commerce* and focuiyyu
the federal ftatps,
Price 5 <5 cents.
Printed bySuwart and Cochran, No.
South Sfrcond fticct, and John M'Ci»lL>ch, No.
i, norrh Third (lien, and fold by them »•;<!
thti bbokfellcH. Jjo. *1-
CONGRESS.
House of Reprefentativei.
Monday, January 27*
Jus. puliyhedt
THE
For the Year
Containing $A New Publication. I
JUST PUBLISHED,
And be Ibid by
R. AIT KEN,
I\-0. 22, Mvrietfiruti
TRANSACTIONS OF THE AME
RICAN PHILOSOPHICAL
SOCIETY.
Held at PhHtd'ljjhii, for promoting VHelnl
Knowledge, VW- 3- Vi ice los in boards
fC§- The fuhfcribers are requcfted to rail
as above <1.r,-cited for the 3d vol. where may
Iw had, complete setts uiiitornilv printed.
Contents of Vol
1. An efifay on thole enquiries in Natural Phi-
Jnl'Oi>liy» which at pre'ent arenwit benefici
al to the United States ot^
2 concerning the tOimatifm oi
the iarth, &4. Dr. B. fraM*.
, A new and curious theory «i Light and
3- " d,. H. franklin.
4. Dj'fcVipT 011 of the process to be obferyeii
in ntAmg »a**c IhWtifof paper.i.tne GW
nci'e manner, with one Iniooth ludace.
Dr. B. hai:hhn.
5 pnitfes and conjectures relative to Mag
netism, and the theory ot' rhc E.nth.
Wif.iwp .-jwiwi jy T />• franklin.
6. Explanation of a finftular phghonienmi, firft
obfcrved byDr Franklin, and not latisi-C
---tn ilv accounted for. Mr. H.'*t U >J««.
7. An account of an Earthy Snbfta.ice toun l
near the fails of Niagara and vulgarly cal_
led the Spray of the Falls } together with
fouve rtma'kson the ialls.
Xriert M'Cauffiny M u
-8. Obfervafoos on the probabilities <» the
di,ration of tinman Life, and thefrogrels
of population,!,. the United States of Amc
' Willtam Jiart»n % rjq,
U. letter containing obfervatioiis made: at
Lake Eric, on that Angular phenomenon,
tiv il-amcn terifted looming.
' AnJuu Ethccl £/?•
10. An Account of the Sup.ar ««
of the United States, and of the meth
Sugar from it, together with
obfei vaticirs upon the advantagesboth put>
lie and private of this Sa^ar
Mrnj rmn Rufli M. "■
.Si MemoVon the use of the Thermometer
in difcovetiug Bank", Soundings. r
pnaihtn Wrltrums. tjq.
.2 An Account of the mnft cfcftual means
- ot p.ev.niimt the deletetions conjequence*
♦f the bite of the Crotalu' Horrirfas, br Rat
tl-» SimkeV Benjamin Sm th HAtti*,
,2 Maaneric Obligations, made at the Um.
verlity of Cambridge, (Maflaclnifet ts.)
' Dr. ». I! Warns.
>4. Accurate determination <'f tlic right af
-cenfion an'V lecHnation of Bootes, arul the
Pole Star. Andrew Etltcait. tjf
,s. Account of (evernl Ho...e«in Pinl:.Jelpl in,
struck with Lightning, June 7™« * 7 °9
Dai-id Riltcnhuufe y tjf.
,6 An Account of' the elfins of a lUo*e ol
LWVrning'on » Houte furmftied with two
r.»'i.i„a«r«. DaiiJ Ritlenhtu/c, and Fraricti
fl,)bVinfirv* Efqrs. .
' and Obligations on Evapo
7;,Tio, in co!d Air. C. »'>Jtar M. D
,8 Poftfcript-<n Mr Ba ton's Latter, to
D'. R itteohoufe.of the >-7, of March, ,791.
10 New Notation of Mwic. >
9 ' Mr. R Patrcpn.
20. Observations on the Theory ol CV ater
Mill?, & c - . W ' Hd "" s '
iq Agronomical Observations.
**■ o*»ii RiireMufe.
20 A letter relative to a method of tilling
the l'um of the several power* vf the SjoetJ
c _ David Rttrtnhoufe, tjj
-21. Index Florae I.aiKallritnfis.
Henrico Mihlenmg, "■
22. Inveftigafion of the power of Dr. Bar
ker's Mill, as improved by Jaliies Rumlev,
with a delcriptron of the mill. W.
2? A ThermometricaJ Journal of the tem
" oenture of th« Atmosphere and Sea, on a
voyage to and from Oporto, with explana
tory observations thereon.
Jonathan Wtihams. tjtj.
24. Ti ft memoir of observations onthe plants
d«nomii)?ted Cryptogamick.
.Vs. Oc Beanveis.
2j. A letter, «ont«inin S obfe. vations on th
ancient work-, of Art, the Native Inl.ab,
tants, See. of the Wettern Country.
Majnr Jonathan Rt*r\
26 An account of some of the principal <
employed bt the North American Indians.
Er.trafted by the late Mr Hugh
,7. An account of the beneficial effects ol the
. Cassia Chamjecrifta in recru»tin K worn-out
lands, antt in enriching such as are natura -
lv poo- ; together with a botanical defcrip
t>on of the plant. _ ...
James C, rem fay of Virgnut.
28. An account "of a lull on the borders of
North Carolina, fuppbfed to have been a
volcano, in a letter from a Continental of
ficer, to Dr. 7- Oreenway, Virginia.
20. An Accountof a poisonous plant, grow-
V i,iz !'po„taneoii3y in the fouthcrn part of
Virginia. Extracted from a paper hy
Dr. James Grce»u>a\, Vog'tia.
*0 Defcriptio,, of a Machine for mealurlng 3
3 (hip's way. »,«.'< H.phrfon.,Ffy
ol An Inquiry into the qoeftion, v hethert
Aois Me'tlifica, or true Honev Ece, is a na
tive of America. Btnjawik Smith BaUon.M.D.
m. An Account of a Comet.
s David RlUtuhufe, tjl
,3. Cadmus or a Trent,fe on rhe Element, of
Written Language, illuftratm*, by a Ph.loJ
fophical division of Speech, tte power of
each characVer, thereby mutually fixing the
Orthography and Orthoepy. With an Essay
en the mode of teaching < he Deaf > or Su d
a»d c»nfeq«ie«tly ,Dumb to ("peak, by Wm.
Thornton, M. D. Honored with tire Ma
cellanic Gold Medal, by tut Ph.lofoplncal
Sticietv, in December, ' 792 —; =■
Cidmu> 11 [r in ted in a fine 8. vol. and fold
bv the Pubiiflier hereof. .
ft Obfei vationi on the of Water-
M il?.
3 c Art Improvement on MetnlicCohAiflors
3 or Lightning rods. Mr Mtrt Pamrjon.
Honored with the Magellanic Premium, by
an 4«a.d of the Society in December 1791.
>6. An easy and expeditious method ot dil
lipatiog the noxious Vapour commonly
found ill Wells and other fnbterraneous
phrets kUncttr Robbfua, tj/f
---27. A method of draining Ponds in levfrl ]
grounds. J# "W"\
oH. Observations on the feveritv of the win
ter, .779, 1783- Ma " h " u
3 „. A Defcripti'in of a new Standard for
Weights and Measures; 10 a letter l.om
Mr. John Cooke, ofTipperary in Ireland.
40, Defection of a Si-RiKo-EtoCK, designed
to affiftti VeiTel in failing. rav l]! -
son Ell. Honored with the Magellanic
CoV Medal, by an Award ot the Society
in December i7y o.
JJrccvif'gr -20.
This day is .pullifhed,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. nB,MARKIT-STKItT,
( Price a quarter dollar)
A (hort account of ALGIERS,
Containing a defer,p.ion ot the climate ofthat
country —of .he manner, and culioms o .hr n
hal.n.ms.and ot their (evrral *». tgamftSpain,
Francc, Kngland, Holland, Vcn.ce,
powers of Eu.opr, li»m the ufurpauon of Bar
haroffri and the invnfion of the fcmperor Charle.
V. to the pfdent time; «iil. a eonc.fc- view of
thco.igin of the rupture between ALGItKS
,„d the UNITED STATES.
J-" 1 - 9- __
MONEY hoi rowed or loaned, accounts fta
,ed or coUefled, employers lulled with
domcttics, houfc rooms, hoarding and lodging
;"ned wt or piocuud-fold.er's, .nann«r' S
or militia men's |.av, Wnd» and cUi*n» on the
pttblic ■, Ihaies in the banks, m , he canal!, and
the tn.npike .oad : ceitilicate* granted by the
pah' ie Mid the old and kte paper monies;
notes of.hand,bill*, bn.WU and morgages,£ith
or without dipo irn—Bought, (old, »i v.ego-
Ciaied at No. 8, m
Markct-llre<tbv FRANCIS WHJIb,
Wh 1 traufa£ls hufinefs in tin pmdic offites tor
country people and others, by v.Hue of a oow
" of or by personal , PP Uat,o«.
December It.
Notke is hereby given,
rrtuT the fuhlcriber has been duly ap
-1 pointed Admm.ftratri* on the estate of
hh Excellency John Ha**** El* tat: <>(
Boftun, in the county oi Suffolk, decked, and
ha taken upon herielf that tn,fc, by giv.ng
bond, as the law directs—and all persons .n
---.crefted, are def.r.d to takenot.ee accord
ingly,
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
BofltonrNov. 13, '79?-
Take Notice.
ALL «rf..:.s wlm have anydemands a*a?nft
the Estate of hi? late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceaM are . C q"efted t,,
exhibit the f.«me to the M>Wc-,1-cr, attorney
to the Administratrix o! said Efta»e : And all
persons who IMnd indebted to said Ellate, »ie
rrauetted to fettle with him immediately; as t e
A* of Limitation of Arties which is to take
place on the fir ft d*y of Dewmber -.ext, will
otherwise render it neeeflary for h.n. to com
me nee fuirs them*
,lie nee f, EpH MAYr Att „ r ney
to the Administratrix.
Boftnn.Nov. 13. 179?- . _
vj « The Printers rliroof,finut this t-om
nionwealth, are reqvrrted to infer* tlm mtheir
revive newspaper,, and Jorward the" ac
count* for the fame, to J
THK Young LADIES'
Drawing Academy,
Under the Direr, inn of
s. FOLWELL,
mil, in a few ehys\ be resumed.
HE feels a gratitude to those parents
and guardians of the youngladies,
who have entnifted to him their tuition—
and as most of them are to return, he will
have an opportunity, by his endeavors for
their further improvement, to acquit hun
felf of a debt, which he esteems it an honor
to have incurred.
(I-PS
One or two large Rooms,
In a central situation, suitable to accom
modate his pupils, are wanted. Apply to
him, at No. 2, Lastitia Court where he
will be thankful to receive commands for
Miniature Painting or Hair Work, and all
kind of Drawing on Ivory, Sattin or
Paper.
January 13, 1794
(£j- Tit Sulfcripticns for this Paper are
rapidly encreaf.ng. Upwards of Five Hun
dred are Jlruck off daily. ,
Advertifmg favors from the friends and
patrons of the Publication, are refptlfully
solicited.
Just Imported,
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
And now opening for iale, by
MATHEW CAREY*
At No. 118, Market peet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OP BOOKS,
Among which are the following :
NEW Annual Register for I 79 2
European Magazine for the firft '>*
months of 1793 _
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester fbciety, 3 vols -
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
[Cuigville's ancient geography
, D'Auoirs of Guy Joli
Memty, a collection of essays
Varieof Prussia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintolh
Rufftll's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Etegant extra&s of natural history
Saugnier and Biiffon'J voyage
Rochron's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taffo's Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's tranftation of Buffon
Berwick's history of quadrapedi
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips'* history of inland navigatioa
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France', in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vo ''"
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's (fiflionary, 2 vols.
Dow's hiftorj of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
linlay's dtfcription of Kentucky
Piefent state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudson's Bay
Preston on masonry _
Lavater on physiognomy, aoridgea
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Nec*er on executive power
Kilfrs of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empire*
Travels . _
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravins
Downman's inlsincy
Adair's history American Indian!s
Benington on materialism an I
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
r De N on's travels
Franklin's liic and works
Groz'ier's description of China
Murphy's translation ot 1 acitus
Godwin on politicaljuftice
Gazetteer of France, 3 1 v °^ s,
Hclvetius on man
Kaimes's (ketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion', ffr the history of Ben.gnus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of fofitude
Smith's theory of moral fentimento
Stackhoufe's history of the bible _
Warfon's life of Philip lid. & 11 Id.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vuls.
VVanley's wonders of the little world, .riled
man
Wall'* on the prevention of dueales
Moore's journal in France ,
Co*'s travels into Denmark,Ruflia,Poland,&-c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grieg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of nnd
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the muscles
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
RobeTtfon's treatise on fevers
Lees botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyee on digestion
,Witl»erii»E on the fox glove
Liod on I lie difeales of hfat
Monro o'i diseases of armies
Haller'i physiology
Spalanzane's differtationi
London pra&ice of physic
Bell's surgery
Chaptal's chemistry.
eodlw.
ALL perrons having any demand against
the ElUte and Effects of Mrs. MARY
SINDK.EY, widow, late of Frmiktord, Ox
ford town (hip, Sn the State of Pennsylvania,
aeceal'edf are desired to produce their ac
counts to Jacob Leshek and William Ckef.d,
(m Frankford, aforefaid,) Executors ai;d Ad
ministrators of the above in order for feitle
ment. And whoever is indebted to (aid Es
tate, &c. are requested to make payment to
the aforefaid Administrators, on or before the
16th of March, 1794, or they will be deal*
with according to lasr.
diw
Frankford, D«c. 16.
TO BE SOLD,
rpHE Fount of LONG PRIMER
I on which the Gazette of the Umted
States was lately printed. The_Founfc
will weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York^
THE Subscriber intending to cotffine bimlelf
entirely to the PURCHASE &SALtor
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b.gs leave to of
fi-r his (ervicc.to his friend, and others, in the
line o( a Stock Broker. Thole who may please
to favor hirti with their bufinefa, may dl P rl,< *
upon having it tranf.acd with the utmost fide
-1 itv aFtd dtfwtchi
Orders hom Philadelphia, Bollon, »r any
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKE R,
n Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burymg-
T" AKES this opportunity of retaining hi*,
grateful thanks to his former employes,
and reqnefting their (uture favors; as well as
those of the public in general. ~
He continues to make and repair »< t «
(horteft notice, all kinds of pleasure c«rn<?*«,
such as coaches, chariots,' phstons wr. and
withoift craiKJ necks, coachees, chai.es, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chairs; and harneft
ofeverv description. in the and newest
falhion'now prevailing jr. the United Sta.M.
And as he has a quantity 6f the belt seasoned
wood by him, and capital workman he has
not the least dou'.U but he will be able to give
fatisfaftion to those who please to employ him.
He has for sale, several carnages alnioft
finilhed', such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chairs hung on steel springs, a light
one or two horses, and a lulkey with a falling
' Carriages fold oti Commiflioiu
Philadelphia, Jan. 6. 1794- mfctgm
Encyclopedia, VoL X-
JIfST PUBLISH
By THOMAS DOB SON v
Bjokfeller, at the Sfcone Hwule, iu Sscond
ftreet Philadelphia..
VOtUMt. X. OF
EnCYCWTr.i)iA ;• pr Dictionart
Of A'tV, Sconces, and Milcellaneout
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
tr trine it
The Different Sciences and Arts*
are digejled into the form of
Diftinft Treaties or Syttenn s _
THIS volume contains principleso* Levels,
Liberty, D"J&rine of Liglity Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, Hi (Tory of Lon
don, Longitude. Luther, Ly4ia, Macedoii,-
Madagafear, Magic, Magrcefrtrn,. Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Marylairtf,
Masonry, Materia Meiiica, Meadow, Mecha-
tfith a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illultrated with T#IH
fY TWoCoPFERPI'tfIt'- . .
As a number ot families are still in the
count! V, and it is not generally ktiown who
j areretuined. T'. Dobfon, folicus the javor
of the subscribers to call or fehd for the>r vo
lumes, that they may be fapplied as early a*
The tenth tolum* of the Encyclopedia iJ
now presented to the public ; but as it make!
its appearance in an impcrfeft slate, some ac
count of the reason of that imperfection <hould
be given. On the Bth of September last, the
Publilher had the misfortune of having bis
Printing Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the rieulit, with
which he was printing the tables or lo
garithms, belonging to the present volume,
were melted doWn by the violence of the Ere.
As a supply of tbefe could not be immediately
? obtained, hfc was under the neceflity of pub
tilhing the volume without the r e tables; but
hopes he fflall be able topublilh them with the
next volume which is now in confidcrable ior-
wardnefs. -
The Publisher embraces this opportunity o*
exprefling bis grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he tak« the li
bsrty of reprefentui& to such ol the fubfcriberi
a; are in arrears, the indiipenfible necellity ot
punctuality, both in taking up the volumes a*
early as polfib'.e after publication, ana of pay
fog for them when taken. Many of the ftib
fcribers having got only one, two, three, ?.'c
volumes, and t'everal volumes remain vkpaio*-
Thus the work hangs in all its different Images
from the commen*em«nt j and though rhe im
portance of a few dollars may be bur a trifle
! ,o the individuals, yet the ascumulation of
these trifles unpaid lavs the Publifr.er under
very serious embarr»ffmeM t and deprives him
of the life of many Thoulands of Dollars which
at this time would be of very essential ferric*.
For these reasons the Publiflier finds liimfelf
under the necsflity of recurring to the origin**
terms of publication, and in future no Vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those wh»-
take and pay to the time of publication.
December'io. anwtlj.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNOj No. J,
Sonth Fourth-Street.'
t&ftf.