EYeN IN G A N D VERTI SE R.
[No. i ">6 of Vol. V.] Wednesday, May 21, 1-794- [Whole No. 552.]
Carolina Rice and Indigo,
15AY MAHOGANY and , FRENCH
BURR STONES,
FOR SALE BY
Gurney and Smith.
May IA. — •
JAMAICA RUM,
LANDING at' Hamilton's * hart", ahove
the D'awbndfie, out of t e fiiip Bacchus
Cent VaWbMa.n, »'io*l Jamaica,
FOR SALE BV
PETER BLIGHT.
M\y i - *L
remaining
OF THE
Ship India's Cargo,
FROM
bengal.
A fraall aflbrtment of
BALE GOODS,
150 bag'; COTTON of good qua! Tv, which
would probably make an excellent remit
tance to Europe; and a
Quantity of PEPPER
For Still ly
Mordecai Lewis,
P/ho has also to dispose of
Barcelona Hand IV ill boxe«,
Holland Gr in cases,
Suuc'.ioug, Hylon, and Tonkay Tea,
A quantity of B-iniftone, &c.
Vt a v 1 o d3 w
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREY, No. iiß,
Maiket-Street,
An Eflay on Slavery,
Dcfigned 10 exhitiit in a new pinnl <>1 view
iil.c&Si.oa wm/f, imiujiry, and ihe peace o)
focicty. Same fails and calculations ate otieicn.
to p.ovc the labor of freemen to be m.uch more
prodtiflii'c than that 01 /laves ; tlpat commies are
rich, powerful and in proponion as the
laboring people enjoy ihe truils of their own
labor ; n-cijliijt-coiiclufion, Ihn
• iisvery IS impolitic as well i'unjujl.
Price 25 Cents. dtf
February 1
Ccngrefs of the United States,
In Senate, Tuesday May I yh, 1794.
ORDERFjJ, that Rufus Puti;ams Manai
fah Cutler, Robert Oliver and Griffin
Green, do, upon ihe third Monday of Decem
ber next, cause to the Senate, why so
much of the grants of land to them the said
Rufus Putnam, Manalfah Cutler, Robert
Oliver and Griffin Green, pursuant to an Ast
entitled 44 An ast authorizing the grant and
conveyance of certain lands to the Ohio Com
pany of airbciates," (hall not be declared
void, as may interfere with and be fufficient
to fatisfy the claims of the French settlers
at Galliopolis.
Ordered, that the delivery of a copy of
the a-')ove order to Rufus Putnam, ManaiTah
Cutler, Robert Oliver, or Griffin Green, and
the publication of the fame, one month, in
one of the Gazettes printed in this City, shall
be deemed fiifficient notice thereof.
Extra# from the Journals of Senate.
Attest,
SAM, A. OTIS, secretary.
May 14. u'n.
Dr. Moore's Journal in France,
VOLUME id.
This Day is publijhed,
Price 6".. ftitel ed,. and 7/6 neatly bound, by
H. & P. RICE,
Book/tilers, No. 50, Market Jireet-,
A Journal during a refidenee in France,
from the beginning of August to the middle of
December 1792 ; To which is added, an ac*
count of the iioft rema kable events that
happened at Paris, from that time to the death
©1 the late Kmg of France.
By JOHN MOORE, M. D.
May 17
City of Washington.
THL Subscribers to the Articles of Agree
ment ot the u Columbian Society" are re
tjuefted to meet at Mr. Richardet's Tavern
in the city of Philadelphia, on Monday the
26th day ol the present month, at 12 o'clock
in order tochoofea board of Managers, &c.
in conformity with the 9th article of their a
greement.
James Greenleaf.
N.'R. Dinner wi.l be ordered on the Table
at 3 o'clock for ftich of the Subscribers as
may choose to pals a facial hour after the
oulinefs of the day it finiflied.
Ma >' 5- dc26M.
9
For St. Croix,
INDUSTRY,
Wharton, Matter.
SHE is intended to fail with the firftveflll
and can accommodate a few palTengers ver\
well. For terms applv to the Captain, or
WHARTON Si GREEVES.
May 19. dot
' 'For LONDON,
SpilJ 'WILLIAM PENN.
NOW lying at Jefle and Robert Wain';
wharf, to fail with all convenient speed. Fo.
freight or Tia fiacre, apply to
JOHN FIELD Iff SON,
Or,
JESSE (St ROBERT tVALN.
May 1-3. dif
For Sale or Charter,
A ND ROM ACHE.
(An American bottom J
is d icout good about two years.olt..,
burthen 232 has only made three v->)
and may be eo.t to lea at a /mail ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-ttreet wh.ir.?
and the terms tirade known bv application t«
WHARTON LEWI:.
March ii.
For Frederickiburgh and Fal
mouth, Virginia, .
FRIENDSHIP,
Capt. (M'Namara.
Wilifai! on Wi.ONESU*V " cxt - For
or paifage apply 10 ill Malter oil b-iHui, -
JOHN VMLN's Wita: >, 01
EMANUEL WALKER,
' .WHO'iiAS-FUR SALJS
The Cargo of /aid V^ejjel —Conji/lwg of
VliVoi.NiA \vHt.AT,|
!• L.JUR,
_ DE &c.
GINStNu
May 17 • d 4 ■
Excellent CLARET,
In hoglheads and in caTts oJ 50 bottles each.
also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ,
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogfhcads and quarter casks, (
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN, i
No. in, South Front itreet.
Jan. 2, 1794. dtf :
NOTICE.
THE OFFICE of the Secretary of S'ateis
removed from High Street, to ihe New Build
ings, the corner of Sixth & Mulberry streets
May 15 iw
—NO. 21 —
Second firelt, between Market and Chefnut
streets, Philadelphia.
POYNTELL'S
AMERICAN MANUFACTORY OF
PAPER HANGINGS,
WHERE he keeps up a coifftant stock rf
ten thousand pieces for sale, comprifmg every
variety of colours, in grounds and figures, of
the mod modern and tasty patterns, for eve
ry part of a lioufe. The perfe&idn attained
in this manufactory, in peculiar neatness of
workmanship, durability of colours, variety
in designs, and good quality ot the paper, will
be found to exceed any European papers at
the fame moderate prices.
An elegant variety of rich fancy feftoon &
narrow borders, and of stucco and other co
loured pannel papers.
Plain grounds made to any colour or (hade.
Wholesale orders for any quantity, from
the country or for exportation, executed on
a Ihort notice, on advantageous terms, on
usual credit.
In addition to the above assortment, he has
a beautiful variety of
French paper hangings
of very superior qu <lity, (Paris ma:iuf.i<story)
with a variety of Rich Borders.
April 25 tuth&saw
S HOES.
A quantity of stout well made Men's size
SHOES, adapted for the Southern market,for
sale at
No. 36, North Third Jlreet.
May 6 jnw&fjot
Just Imported,
hi theJhlf Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peterjburgh in Rujfia, and now landing lit
RuffeirJ tfibarf,
HEMP,
BAR IRON, ,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS, I
RAVENS DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And (or (ale ai the (lores of thefubici ibtr in 1
f .V#lnm ftreel, N . a 2. 1
John Donnaldfon. 1
Api il 4. di w w 6c t( |
JUST PUBLISHED, j
A»\ D TO BE SO LD BY
THOMAS DOBS ON,
No. 41, foutb Second Jlreet, \
Extract of a letter from a gen- 1
sinaii in Americatoa tiiend in England, on <
leSirijeft of Emigration—pi ice 1 Bth of a •
Jo:l:,r. i
Ecclfurjlical P.JlalliJhments detrimental to 1
a State.
Price I 8 ot a Dollar.
April 22. , mw&f3vv
Lately Published."
SOLD BY
* Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
piih, liillory ot w-Hamplhne, horn the
X Difcoveiy of the River Ptlcaiaqua—by Jc
r.mijh Belknap, D. D. 3 Vols. Price in BoaKrfs,
j I -2 D 'liars.
The Forreftcr, an American Fable, being a ,
Sequel to the Hiitoi yot John Bull the Ciothici. (
n Prce, 75 Cents.
A Dilcourfc, inrend.d to commemorate the
Dilcovery ot America by Chriflophcr Golum
;>us; delivered at the request of the Hiltorn:,ai
j »ciety in Maffachuletts, Ottober 23d, 1792, 1
jeing the completion ot the Th.id Ctoiui v, j
jrtce lhat memorable event. To which are
dded, F>»ur I>>ilortaLions, connected wuh the
ut|je& —By the fame author. Price, 50 Ccnis.
Marcti 17. tuih&^w
NANKEENS.
Nankeens of Superior Quality,
• . FOR. SAU AT ' , 4k
No. 40, north Fifth Street.
April 21. mw&ftf
so the Electors of the city and
county of Philadelphia^
Gentlemen,
rHIS being tiie lad year of the prefect
Sheriff's time in office. I take the liber
-1 y to offer in vie It* a Candidate, and solicit
, our votes and interests in my favor, to place
me on the return at the next general EWVon,
,is his fiiccelTor for taid office > in doing which,
you will confer an obligation lhat will be
gratefully remembered, by
Your 1110 ft obedient,
and hum; 1j I'ervant,
JOHN BAKER.
May 3. estf.
JUST PUBLISHED,
THOMAS DORSON,
iockfeller, at the Stone House in SecondJlreety
Philadelphia >
VOLUME XI OP
ENCYCLOPAEDIA,
OR A
Dictionary of Arts, Sciences, aud Mifcel
lancous Literature,
ON a plan entire y new ; by which the dif
ferent sciences and arts are digested into the
firm of diflinft tieatifes or I'yflems. This
I volume co -tains the articles, meda's, medi
j cine, metallurgy, metaphyiics, methodist ,
Mexico, microlcope, inidwifiy, andagieat
variety of biographical and miscellaneous ar-
Hcs, illuftraled with nineteen copperplates.
(£3" The rabies of logarithm*, &C. wiiich
were deficient in the tenth volume, are sub
joined to this.
Eleven volumes of this work arc now pub
lilhrd, and the XUth is in some forwardnefs.
O 1 the in It of September, 1792, the price
"f iubfcripr ion wasincreafed TtN dollars on
all ir cs not taken before that t nie. The sub
scription 1 siti 11 open on these terms, and it
any Copies remain by the fir ft of Juiy next, the
price will be railed TEN dollars more, on
any copies which may be lubfefibed for alter
that period.
*„* As many of the fubferibers have taken
onlv two, three or four, &c. volumes, iliey are
came Illy requested to take up and pay tor the
remaining volumes, as it becomes difficult to
complete the setts, and the publisher does not
hoid hiinfelf bouud to make up any setts after
t ! ie firftdayof Juiy next.
A-p.i2_»2. m&tl;6ur.
THEATRE.
OBSERVER No. XVI.
Mr. Fenno,
The Theatre was last evening uncommon'
ly crowded, and with a brilliant audience.
The Observer was much gratified that Mr'.
Fennel's benefit waS lb properly noticed : his
powers were exerted with his usual propriety
in the charter of Count Ribemont; it is
the iincere wish of the Observer, that a man
of Mr. Fennel's character for virtue and abi
lities both natural and acquired, may neves
want the patronage of the public, of which
he received fd flattering a testimonial last
ni-jht.
Mrs. Oldmixon, again arretted the atten
tion of the audience, and exceeded the very
high expectation:, which had been entertain
ed of her as a Singer and an ACtreis: The
acquisition of Mrs. Olclmlxon, is a Angular
felicity to the Managers Of the New-Thea
tre, and is a great addition to the Company
of Performers, unquestionably an excellent
one before Hie joined them.
The pieces chosen were the Surrender of v
Calais, and a Peep into the Isfcraglio; the
d fpofitions of characters in those uncom
monly meritorious pieces, has done great ho
nor to the difcernmeut of the Managers. Mr.
Mofeton will exrufe the Observer for hinting
to him, the pain which his friends fe.-l at his
so frequently wanting aid from the Promp
ter.
Mrs. Marjhall, for a perfeCl simplicity,
and ease in a&ion, for a compleat adoption
: «i' the character file performs, has never ex
ceeded her exhibition of last evening.
In the after-piece, Mrs. Francis, Mrs. Old
mixo , Mils Broadburjl, formed a trio, that
gave the Observer many, not to fay full ideat
of perfection : He asks the Audience if they
could refrain from such ideas when they
saw and heard them ? Was there a heart
which did not expand with better sentiments
and more benevolence from attending the
perform nee last evening ? If there was one,
the Observer recommends a trial of This
Evening, at the Benefit of Mr. Chalmers,
which may poilibly prove a mutual benefit.
The entertainm-nt seleCted for this even
ing, is of the Left kind.
Tuesday 21ft May.
UNITED STATES.
ALEXANDRIA, May 13.
Copy °f a letter from a gentleman in Phila
delphia, to his friend in this town.
( Concluded.)
As to our navigation and commerce, we
can certainly defend it only in one of two
ways, either by maintaining a friendly cor
respondence with the maritime powers, or by
a powerful navy of our own.
As to the firft mode, at this time Great
Britain is mistress of the ocean. The prin
cipal maritime nations, except France, are
her allies. The court is holtile to us—there
fore disposed to deitroy our navigation and
controui our commerce. It can be controll
ed only by the friendly temper of th? Bri
tilh people towards us. Our only chan:e, in
this way of defending these important inter
ests at this time, is to cultivate their friend-
Ihip.
As to the second mode, a powerful navy—
the expense would be prodigious, the effica
cy uncertain. If however we do not defend
our navigation in one way or the other, in a
verv fliort time we Ihali not have a lh,p ou
the ocean. And indeed if we cannot defend
our navigation without a naval force ade- ,
quate to the objeCt, we ought to encounter
the expense of such an armament. I cannot
pretend to fay what naval force would be
adequate to this objeCt. A force less than
equal to tei} Ihips of the line, and as many
\ftcut frigates, would probably be very inade
ouate. I am, however, convinced that the
appearance of such a fleet always at our
command, could not fail to have a consider
able effect on foreign nations, especially if
the former jealoufits and rivaifhips thoiiid be
restored among the'powers of Europe—And
when I refleCt how much within ou'r reach
are the rich Britifii Weft-Indies, I am inclin
ed to think that even preparations for such
a force,fuch as fortifyinggjthe proper port*
building arlenals aud docks, and laying in
plentiful supplies of naval It ores, might in
cline that government, more than any o
ther circumstance, to cultivate our friend
fliip. It is not probable that such a force
could be built and equipped for less than,
fix millions of dollars 5 nor when in aitu«
Ift v ce, annually maintained for less
than t ro; betides the expenses of an cf
tabli hment to defend the public works, ,
and superintend the naval btiiinefs of eve
ry kind. If, however, such a force
would fectirt to us <■ free cotnmerce and
fafe navigation, and the unfriendly difpo
iitionsof any of the great maritime pow
ers (hould compel us to resist it, it will be
better to encounter this expense than to
facrifice our trade altogether. As long
a 9 our commerce is supported, our exports
annually may be fully valued at twenty
millions of doliars. Suppofmg this value
should be reduced by the deftryction of
eur trade one half; this is a heavy tax on
the nation of ten millions of dollars
annually—and a tax, though it is drawn
from the pockets of the people, which is
not put into the public purse, but is a
cltai loss to the individuals and the nati-
oh. Such a state of things has also a ten
dency to discourage industry, and to in
troduce idleness with all its baneful attend
ants. If then the outfits of such a fleet
(hould cost ten millions of dollars, we (hall
lose nothing the firft year, and in every
following year we (hall have a clear additi
on to the value of our exports of eight
millions, over and above the two millions
destined to defray the annual expense of
the arrpament; or, in other words, we
fball take two millions annually from the
twenty millions, our exports, in order to
prevent the value of these exports from
being reduced to ten millions. .
, But it maybe said that we cannot raise
the money for such an armament j we
Can raise it in two ways, either by loan,
or by taxes. A Joan, it is true, will in
crea e our national debt; but if our fafe
tv and exigence require it, this objection
mult yield to the firii call of nature, felf
prefervation ; but a very great proportion
of the requilite lum might be raised by
tixes. At this time the United States
are rich and capable of a great exertion—
provided a call for money is made before
the wealth (hall be difiipated, which has
been acquired by our late prosperous com
merce.
I think a general suspension of com
merce one of the greatest evils which can
happen to a nation. I have therefore en
deavoured to prove that it is better to en
counter a considerable expense thin fur
reuder it. It is probably in its effects as
bad, if not worse, than open war. In
war we might be able to retaliate on our
enemies the injuries which they did us.
Pending the negoeiation of Mr. Jay,
for the redress of the injuries we have fuf
fered from Great Britain, the most effec-
tual Way of aiding the negociation would
be to prepare for a refufal of justice, by
providing the Weans of defence, and par
ticularly by making ample preparations
for a marine defence ; for it is certain we
could not, in cale of a war with Great
Britain, defend our commerce in any de
gree without a powerful naval force ; and
perhaps a navy may be considered as the
most effectual guard from invasion.
I afri very sensible that, in other ref
peds, the southern dates are not so very
touch interested in the growth of Ameri
can navigation. Nature, climate, habit.
manners, and population have conspired
to render them unfit for this pursuit. If
a fuffieient number of vefTcls are found to
carry their surplus produce to market, and
they obtain a good price for it, they are
not in this relpeft very much interested
by what nation this is done. For this rea
son, therefore, the southern states might
rot feel themselves inclined to be at any
extraordinary expense to defend the navi
gation ; but such a surrender would be
ruinous to New-England. All circum
ftanees have combined to render them a
The ocean is their ele-
rnaritime people.
ment—it is their harvest field. It is the
duty of government to prated the interfft
of every part of tire fogiety—it is there
fore its anty to protect the navigation of
2\ew-England, on which its prosperity
depends, as well as the agriculture of the
southern dates. There are but two ways
of doing this- one by cultivating the
friend/hip of those nations, which having
the greatt ft maritime force, are moii capa
ble of injuring us, or by a powerful navy.
- :,e " r " ' s !^ie cheapest and most desirable
tr .ide the last ought however to bo re
sorted to in cafe the firft should hot be at
tainable. A seriouS question here occurs
to me, whether there be not a danger of
a frv ranee C.f the Union ; unless our na
vigation is protested ? Whether the east
ern stater v. ill not, under such circumftan
c«, b. obliged to seek the friendfhip and
aiiiance of some nation able to protect it ?
t net'l not trace to you the consequences
of so deplorably an event, particularly to
which# however rich and ex
teniivs, can never become a maritime pow
■r. All circumstances our politici
ns ought to revolve seriously in their
ninds.
To a reflecting ftrtnger it mud a]
lingular, that measures, apparently c<L
ted to promote American navigation, which
is an object io interefting'toNew-England,
and to retaliate the injuries done to our
commerce in consequence of the orders of
the British court (and which injuries have
fallen principally on the people of that
country) should beoppofed by the eaflern
and urged with the mod vehement zeal by
the louthern states. The former think
that such measures would precipitate us
immediately into war ; and are therefore
disposed to try, in the firft place, the
peaceable mode of negociation to obtain a
redress of our injuries ; and to leave it un
fettered by any circumfiance which might
be used as a pretext by the British court
to evade judice, and induce hofl ilfties,
which would be ruinous to our present
prosperity.
It is certainly very fmgular that the
Southern States (hould have so eagerly
prert measures which, thofc most intcreft
ed, deemed fatal to the oljjedts which
they were meant to promote. I recollect
that it was one of the strongest objections
urged by some of the oldelt and ablefl
ftatefmln in Virginia to the adoption of
the present constitution, that <he eastern
states (as they supposed) forming a majo
rity in the legislature, would be difpoied
to encourage their navigation in such a de
gree as to fccure to theml'elves the mono
poly of our carrying trade, and thereby
be enabled to exact the molt enormous
freights for the transportation of the bulky
articles of the south, to the iiijury of the
southern planters. How different has
been their conduct from these anticipati
ons. It is the south which press such
measures, even to the hazard of a war.
It is the ealt which opposes them.
If a fair and temperate attempt to ad
just the differences between Great Britain
and us, by negociation should fail, thtn
felf preservation, then duty to ourielvcs,
duty to mankind, will jultify every
sure, even to sequestration of British debts,
by which our injuries may be retaliated,
and justice rendered to our citizens. It
is not probable that Great Britain, a na
tion accuitomed to war, and which for
the fervicc of the present year, raises a
revenue of one hundred andfifty millions of
dollars, and is mistress besides of the oce-
an, can be easily influenced by threats,
though her paflions and pride may be irri
tated by them. On the wfiole, therefore
I cannot help thinking, that in the pre
sent state of things, the eastern has been
the wisest and bell policy. We might
advantageously improve the time of the
negociation by providing revenues, and
warlike equipments, so as to be ready to
meet an appeal to arms if it Ihould be ine
vitable. 1 have however, a confident
hope, that the present differences will be
amicably adjusted, and peace established
on a firmer basis than ever, by tht mea
fores of the executive.
When 1 reflect on the relative circum
stance, of the eastern and southern states,
the former led by the necefiity of their li
tuation to navigation—the latter invited
by their climate, their foil, and the value
of their produdioas to agriculture: the
one fitted to carry to foreign markets what
has been raised by the industry of the
other. 1 have viewed them as peculiarly
designed for mutual affiltance and accom
modation ; and to unite on terms of reci
procal interest. 1 have often been aito
mftied at the observation, that the eastern
and southern states had different intent,.
The fad is, they only have 'different pur
fiitls, which produce an unity intcrefts.
It would be the greatefl misfortune to
both, to separate. Their union is calcu
jated to nourish each othei's prosperity.
Yet, unless our navigation is proteded, a
separation may be inevitable.
The southern states from their habits
and peculiar circumstances, cannot flouri/h
without commerce; and they must fob- .
nut to have their produce trdnfported bv
foreign, .f American vessels are uot ena
bled by an adequate protection to do it.
t the eastern states cannot exist orprof
per, without their navigation, and they
must have it proteded, in so me way or o
-1 and if the United States do not pur
e mcafures adequate to this objed, they
may be obliged to seek its protection bv
a leparation, and foreign alliances. I hope
the united wisdom of our councils will
ward off an event so mifeh'rvous to our
mutual peace and happiness, and so much
to be deprecated.
I know it is said, that the French Re
public can, and will protect our commerce.
The fa£t, however, at this time, is, that
they cannot defend their own, nor their
foreign pofieffions, either in the Ea(t or
Indies. Nof- can we expedt that
they would defend our comtnerce, unless
we Entered into an offenlive and defenfive
alliance with them : which, in cafe of de
feat would involve us in their ruin ; in cafe
of their success from the superiority of
their power to ours, wouM leave us, un
der the name of allies, in a complete state
of political dependence on thetu. This,
I heartily pray, may never be our fate in
refpeft to any nation.
Being the happiest people in the Uni
verse, and undev circumstances the molt
favorable to the continuance of our happi
ness—it is time to avoid.all foreign politi
cal connexions, which can only serve to
involve us in the broils and contentions
which defolite the reft of the World. Be
sides, it is (till uncertain what form of go
vernment France will, finally afiiime.—
They have at present no regular govern
ment. The confutation which they fram
ed, they have not yet ventured to put into
aiSfion. Their present government is re
volutionary. It is suited for the occasion
only ; for this it seems peculiarly fitted.
It has in the most astonishing manner, call
ed forth the energy of the nation to repel
their unjust invaders ; and has demonstra
ted to the world, that France cannot be
subdued by foreign force.
The United States are certainly differ
ent from the reft of the world, in refpeft to
thediftributionof real property among their
citizens. Every induilrious man here may
become an independent pofleffor of land.
This single circmnftance gives to our peo
ple a spirit of liberty, and an independence
of chat after peculiarly fitted for the main
tenance of a republican government. All
Europe is m a different situation ; and it
is probable that even in France at this
time, five-fixths of the people have no hold
on the foil, .except in the character of de
pendent tenants. Our circumstances are
more independent, and consequently our
manners more free, and more pure than
the reft of the world. Our happiness is
complete, if we will avoid foreign broils,
and confine our attention to the carc of
our own intereits. Our true policy is to
cultivate peace by all poffibie means ; but
at the fame time to prepare for war. While
the negociations of our envoy extraordina
ry are pending, as i have before observed,
the time of our Government would be
ufefully employed in such preparations.
If we have peace, as I expect, the funds
destined for war, might be applied to the
redemption of our debt : and, if we have
war, we should be ready to meet it. In
either event, the bill totally rejeded by
the Senate, would be unnecessary. If we
have peace, the causes of our complaint
will be removed—War from its nature
will destroy that commercial intercourse
between the two countries, which the bill
was intended to effedi.
Much noise is made about the retention
of the Western Posts by Great Britain.
With regard to this fubjeft, and generally
the fulfilment of the treaty of peace, there
are mutual recriminations between that
country and us. But though I think they
are unjustly detained from us, I do not
view them as an object of so much confe-
quence, as to juftify war to obtain them,
fime, and the progress of our settlements,
will in a few years, give us pofTeflion of
them without striking a blow. We have
already more territory than 'we can defend,
and more people than we can govern, or
than will obey us. ,
I have thus given you a concise view of
my ideas, the result of my best reflections
on the present interesting fuuation of our
political affairs, and remain, See.
CINC INNAT W. Territory, April
19.
Charge delivered to the Grand Jury, April
8 th, by the Honorable George Turner,
one of the Judges in and over this Ter
ritory.
[Published at the request of the Grand Jury.]
Gentlemen of the Grand Jury ! •
WE are now aflembled in obedience to
the law's; and it affords rue pleafiire to be
among you. Happy. Ihould J feel were this
the only business ot the court. Bat error is
incident to human nature; and mjfatpre
/" d dlforders will arise under even
e best systems of government, and in the ;
belt regulated state of focety. baj, c*, I
only be correal by the due admmift ration
■ of whoklome laws. Hence the fecial com .
, p*ft was fought for ia the earliest aVes • a,,!<
man parted with a portion of his natural
rights to preserve in security the remainder
Oovern mrnts were framed: laws were ma t"
for the common benefit-and prote«£Ko„ » M
hence afforded to the perfor.al liberty tC
lives and the property of every ind'vidaal
I bus the weak were protected ng.unlt the
llrong ; the poor were guarded against 0D
predion from the rich—while the vicious o~
all descriptions were, rellrained from 'the
commiflion of crimes.
Human happiness, both public and private
has ever be n an object important aid inter'
eftmg to man. Without happiness, life would
be a burden: but happinels cannot be cb
tamed without the poffefiion of liberty —
anc! to secure this, the necciiity of reflrainin?
rules must be evident to you all—rules tha
while they dif?ountenaiire vice, promot- vir'
. tu , e , and us to those silken trammels
ii- which reason imposes, virtue approves and
jit expediency requires. Thus a diftinchon na
turally arises between Liberty and Licenf
tj cioufnefs. The one is a curse o/ the ' - eat *
. eft magnitude, and may always be found
among men in a state of nature: the oth-r
ns is the bnghteft gem of a well regulated
e " vernment. It is the mark o refined evil,
o- zation, and can never be too highly valued
_ Impress it for ever on your minds, that where
n- Licen.cioufnefs is permitted, Liberty mult
droop and finally die ! 1 hey cannot live to
gether.
to Happy are we, Gentlemen, who live in an
e " a s« io enlightened as the present. The mists
m of ignorance are nearly difpdled, and im pe .
J. I nal-reafon begins to resume herfway. The
tl- ""deritanding appears to be fleetly acproxi
A to that state which belt c S n l^beral
- - IZe M , ™* d ' ® n f ' eadl the heart " good
' ' to a]l men - ' A salutary admtniftration
of the laws must haftcn the defirabl,- crisis—
. and much, gentlemen, will depend uponvdur
r- exertions by the due tfifcharge of the iruft
0 of r ' ° UI co,,ntr y has confided to you.
" Before 1 pass on to » few oblervations res
pecting your duties, fuffer me, gentlemen, to
1 congratulate you upon the peculiar advan
• tages of our local f.tuation. Far removed
from the fripperies and corruptions of the
e old world; blessed with the Dofletfion of a
'• AC fertilc > and climates no left
11 a ~: e; mheriting the privileges and prof
tl P ' framing a future government on the
g purest principles of polity, and Of transmit
ting to millions yet unborn blessings known
cm j to 1: ee men j what, then, have we to
'- tear—but our own imperfections! what
e have we to court—but our own happiness!
r J must now cail your attention to matters
1 more affecting the obietfs of
s ou^P refe 1 nt meeting: And firft—with res-
I peCt to the nature and use of lurks, their
' I rights and duties.
* I A Jury, then, is formed of a convenient
J 1 number of citizens, felcdted for their probi- "f
L ln, P 3rt ' a ' ! ty and general competency—
; ihey are vested with a discretionary power
- t° try the truth of fatts affecting the liberty,
the lives, the reputation and the property of
' their fellow-Citizens—a sacred trust indeed 1
In its general nature I would fay, this dis
cretionary power is a power to try the truth
> ot fadts ; and the truth of facts must be
; I tried by evidence.
■ According to the nature and cifcumftan
i ces ot every tafe, a Juryman will estimate
in his own mind what he believes ; and also
what he does not Relieve, because infuißc'i-
I entlv proved.
II -ught with the wisdom of immemorial
ages, the common law proceeds upon the
lame principle. The qualifications and so
lemnities it prescribes, as to witnesses (and
testimony is the principal evidence before
I Juries) are directed to competency —not
j credibility ; to admifiion of what is offered —
not to the operation of what is heard.
I tender, gentlemen, of the reputation
and feelings of your feliow-citizens. Chil-
I dren of the lain-.' beneficent parent, they
form a part of the fame great family with
yourselves.'—They have feelings, like you ;
and, like you, are in the pursuit of humait
happiness. Whatever tends wantonly to im-
I peoe or impair that happiness, is injuftiee
I to the injured, an offence against society and
j the law. " Do unto others as you would
j they (hould do unto you"—is a rule lacred
j for its excellence. Suffer no frivolous nor
I vexatious accusation to excite, your notice;
I but then let no real offender escape the ope-
I ration ot the laws. The peace and security
I of society require these things of you ; and
j your country demands then., as effehtials of
your duty.
I It behoves you difpaflionately to weigh
I in your minds whatever may officially be
I laid before you, by the gentleman profectit
ing the pleas of the United States : like
wise, to take under your notice such v'oJa
| tions of the law within your county, as
may otherwise happen to come to your
knowledge. For remember, that the object
of youi meeting is to serve a community
which cails yon brothers. That commun
ity will expect from you (and which doubt
less you A'ill render) the moll fjrupu.jus,
and confciericious discharge of your func
tions.
T he generr.l fundHons of a Grand Jury
conljfl in making enquiry into every charg
of criminality that (hall lie brought befor
%them, on behalf of the Territory, in the
n«ftne of the United States.
! As a bill of indigent amounts only to
a deJaration, that the pary 0113 it o
put upon his trial, it is held. that evidence
on behalf of the prosecution, 's. all
that a Grand JuT may require. But then
excercife the greatefl Circum
you ought to exicruiv i * _
Wfcion as to the teihmony altered ; and
to be thoroughly P erf "^ ed ) of t ! le m " h ° f
it, before you procecd to find a bi..—which,
ill found, might temporarily involve the
reputation andinterefts of a worthy ind.vi-
uul. ,
As you are bound by oath to enquire on
ly for a particular county, the county in
which you are, you cannot regularly, en
tire of a fa& done out of that county.
To so great a nicety was this doctrine for
merly carried in England,that where a per
son was wounded in one county, and died
in another, the offender was indi&able in
nekber, at common law—no compleat ast
of felony being committed in either county.
In finding an mdi£lment, it is your duty,
gentlemen, to findgmerally, and not speci
ally. You mull either declare ' A true
Bill,' or ' No Bill'—and this without ad
dition or condition.
OfFences(if any such there be)againft
the ast prohibiting and suppressing every
species of gaming, will, no doubt, claim
and receive your particular attention. I
give yonthe ast itfelf particularly in charge,
conformably to the duty it imposes on me.
Suffer me, gentlemen, to call up your at
tention to fenfiments on wliich 1 have al
ready enlarged. They can hardly be too
often repeated.—On all occasions let your
care be equally directed tq the detection of
the guilty, and the protection of the inno
cent. Coniiderj on the one hand, how
nearly the fafety of the good, is cortnefted
with the punishment of the bad; and, on
the other, how liable to wifreprefentation are
theaftions of men.
Foreign Intelligence.
COPENHAGEN, March 18.
We can now mention with certainty,
that a fleet is fitting out at the Holm ; it
is to consist of 8 ihips of the line and 4
frigates. It is reported that the differ
ent commanders are already appointed,
though they are not yet publickly known
—it is thought that those of the 8 ships
of the line are Commodore Winterfelt,
, Captains fading, Ramfhardt, Raphael,
Sondcr, Otto Lytly n> Uurfin, Chriflian
Lytken, and Olfert Fisher ; and for the
4 frigates, Captains Soyer Abo, Steen,
13ille, Obeltiz, and Ooldenfeld. Of the
(hips fitting out the following lift is given:
Neptune 84, CrownPrinee, Princess Ma
ria, Sophia Fiederica, Three Crowns, of
44 each, the Louisa Augusta, Ifods Ret
ten, and Mars of 64 each. The frigates,
Thesis of 40, the Triton and 8 others of
24 guns.
NIGGA, February 26.
The Comrniffioners of the Convention
and the Generals have daily conference in
order to fix upon the place of operations
fur the ensuing campaign. The army of
the Alps is reckoned at 12000 men—
1000 whereof are intended for the siege
or Saorgis. The transport of the heavy
artillery has already commenced, large
magazines are established, the firfl requi
sition is called out, and the national do
minions have been fold for treble the sum
of what they had been rated at.
BRUSSELS, March 15.
All the motions and preparations which
the combined armies have made on the
frontiers are only on the defenfive, occa
iioned by the enemy drawing their troops
together. It is known from good autho
rity, that in the councils of war held
here and at Mons, it has been agreed up
on, that the combined armies shall not
begin to ast until the great reinforce
ments which are expected from Germany
and England (hall liave arrived. It will
therefore certainly be half April before
we can ast on the offenfive.
The French in the mean time seem to
Redetermined to open the campaign with
a general attack, which is to be made
irom the furthermoit frontiers of Lux
embourg ~ until the sea shore at the fame
time ; our Generals therefore take all the
nscenaiy precautions to cover our fron
tiers.
of the French army
of the Mozehe, drawing itfelf towards
D.edenhofen ; a corps of Auftrians has
been Cached from the county 0 f Namur,
in order to reinforce the fmill army of
General Beaulieu, who has taken hij head
• quarters at Arlon. The greateit part of
the English army marched on the
in It. from Cortyk to Menin, bccaulo thts
place is threatened with an attack from
the French, who draw together near Lin
celles. The Duke of York held lately a
general review of the English arrtiy, and
gave orders to change its position. Ac
cording to appearance, the English army
is'to occupy a poll of conference, be
hind the river Lys.
Since the beginning of last week about
1000 new Auftriari cavalry have paflcd
through here and a corps - of 6ao is ex
pected every day at Shrinen ; here and in
all other cities it is amaziftg full of stran
gers; government has therefor? taken ve
ry severe measures; all 'thoi'ellrangers that
cannot legitimate themselves are looked
upon with a very jealous eye. A strong
corps of Hanoverian troops is expe&ed
here this day.
P. S. This moment we received a let
ter from Cortyk vdiich mentions that the
engagement which took place between
the French & the English near Werwick
had been a very bloody one, and that the
English had taken a good many prison
ers of the French, as likewise some pie
ces of cannon. This letter mentions
likewise, that the armed peasants took
the enemy in the rear, and thereby great
ly contributed to the advantages which
have been obtained.
PHILADELPHIA,
MAY <21.
There is a letter in town which con
tains information that three companies of
British troops under the command of Col.
Simcoe, Governor of Upper Canada,
have lately taken post near the Rapids of
the Miami of the Lakes.
Peace with.all the world, is undoubt
edly the policy and the wifli of every wife
and honest Citizen of the United States.
But in the course of human events, such
is the avarice and cupidity of nations as
well as individuals, that it may become
the duty of a people to rifle its very exis
tence as a community in supporting its
rights aud independence. Whether such
a solemn crisis is now impending, time
will soon determine. May our civil fa
thers be wife to discern and pursue the
solid interests of this infant Republic at
this eventful period.
From Correspondents.
If the liberties of this country are to be
deftroyed—llo fitter instruments can be pro
vided than felf created Legislators, who owe
no responsibility to the people.
If the liberties of France are now,or ever
have been in jeopardy since the commence
ment of the revolution of that country —the
danger has arisen not from the rcprefentatives
of the people, but from those societies who
have controuled their deliberations, and have
\didlated the public measures.
The reprefentativj-s of the people arc
known—but who knows the members of
those clubs who have aflumed the dielator-'
Ihip of the United States ?—So far as they
are known, merely as citizens, who ivouid
transfer their confidence from the represen
tatives of the people, to place it on these
men.
These societies are profefled enemies to,
and openly reprobate every important mca
fure of the government of this country. —
Hcnce arises a competition for influence,
which is but another name for power—the
end of trhefe things, in the natural order of
events, is death to the liberties ol" America.
There are certain men in public life in
this country, who are macle the objects of
perpetual abuse to the diforganizers of the
day—let uncommon attention be paid to the
public character of these men—it is shrewdly
.fufpefted that it will be found, that uncom
mon merit, gives rife to this pointed abuse.
No greater sign of depravity can exilt, than
to be the favorites of the calumniator. of our
government.
The olive branch and the fivord —these
comprize the politics of the real friends of
this country.
A nettle, and an empty fcaiboard —the
politics of the diforganizers. -
On Monday the 19th instant, a medical
commencement was held in the Umvjrfity of
this city, at which eight gentlemen were ad
mitted-to the degree of Do&or of Mcdicine
after having submitted to the usual examina
tions both private and public. The fubjefl-i
of the inaugural diflertations, published and
defended by the candidates, are as follow; '
' »
3. On the Offices and-Inflammation of the
Liver, by Thomas D/jldalof Baltimore, in
Maryland.
. 4- Oii thi Apoplexy, by John Lamb of
;Ne<y York.
About 1500 Letters were received this day
it the Poll Office in this city—principally
foreign letters, brought by the two lalt pack
ets ' orn England, arrived at Halifax, and
transmitted from thence to New-York.
We are authorized to announce the
mariageof Mr. Van Berckel,, Minis
ter Resident, from their High Mighti
nesses, the {tares General of the United
Nethetlands, to' the U. S. of America,
to Madame Bacler. de L'Eval.
NEW-YORK, May 19.
Extract of a letter from Kingston (Jamai-
dated April 8, 1794, t0 a cor
relpondent in New-York. 1
" Our ports have been declared open to
your vessels, for the importation of all
kind of provifiens & lumber of every de
scription, for seven mouths ; previous to
their being {hut, fix months notice {hall
be given.—
# *
Price Current.
Superfine flour 70 to 75/ per barrel,
Corn meal 35/" ditto
Corn 6fS per bushel,
Peas 6/B % ditto
Rice 30 and 32{6
Staves 12 and Iy,
Shingles 22 inch. 40 and 45/
Ranging timber and scantling £.lt.
Common 1 1.
Best American beef 8b and oof per 1
do. do. pork 110 and 12 of <
Lard 15 and 18d per lb.
Butter do.
Since this date we have heard that the
price of provisions had risen considerably."
ExtraS of a Letter from a refpcElable hcufe
in King flan, Jamaica, dated 12th April,
to their comfpondent in this city.
" I am extremely sorry for the difcoti
ragement, and 1 cannot help adding, the
very unfair treatment that the merchants
of your State met with in their intercourse
with our new possessions in St. Domingo ;
it hasarifen from indiltinft orders, having
been issued by the Lords of the Admiral'
ty in the firft inHance, and the spirit of
thefc orders again miffconceived by our
Naval commanders in these fedfc.
"1 think I can with certainty fay that
an end is now put to that evil, but am
apprehensive that you have already felt it
so severely as to have been induced to leave
off that trade entirely ; to remove this
unfortunate impreflion as far as possible,
I have requtrftcd the Governor of this
Island to write circular letters to the Brit
ilh Consuls in the different Ports of Ame
rica, assuring them, that not only the
Ports of this Island, but those of our
possessions of St. Domingo, are open to
all kinds of provisions, being brought
there in American vessels ; and that they
will be allowed to carry away every de
scription of produce without any reflec
tions'whatever."
> *."■
Days
Ship Mary Ann, Hillman, Lisbon 50
Glasgow, Williams, do. 50
Maria <51 Eliza, C lemens, Liver
poo! 56
Camilla, Boys, St. Euftatia, 15
Paragon, Marshall, Liverpool, 63
Britannia, Greenway, Lisbon, 53
Snow Hebe, Flynn, Oporto 36
Brig Lavinia, Hodge, Hamburgh 52
Dispatch, ToplifT, St. Vincents, 16
Columbia, Towers, AuxCayes 11
Mary, Sturges, Bermuda 15 j
Schr. Friend/hip,' Culver, Barbadoes
Pilot boat Star, North, Havannah, 10
Polly, Foster, Cape N. Mole, 16
Sloop Utalia, Wheeler, N. Orleans 30
•independence, doling, Bermr.da 9 |
I. On the effcdls of the piflions upontiie
Human Body, by Henry Rose UI Virgiiiia.
On the efforts of Con.agion upon th?
Human Body, by Lewis CondiCt ot INe
jeri \
5, On the Suffocatio Stridula, or Crop,
by Robert Davilon, of Philadelphia.
6: On Inflammation, by John Redman
Coxe, of do.
7. On the morbid Effeils of Fixed Air
upon H-althy Animals, by William Franklin
Bathe, of do.
8. On Jnlanity, by Edward Cutbufh, of
do.
Yeiterday, Capt. Jo/hua Barney arrived
in town trom Kingston, Jamaica, \Hiich
place he left the 19th ult.
.By this Day's Mail;
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Capt. Hodge of the brig Lavinia, in
52 days from Hamburgh, informs, .that
I lie brig Un'ou, Folgier tiona Hamburgh,
lai/eJ 2 days before him—the (hip Jane,
IVic IV, Jo,,—Two Brothers, Earle, and
the brig Sea Nymph,' Pedcn, were to iail
tor Philadelphia, in 2 or 3 days after.
by the Snow Hebe, Capt Flynn, in thir
ty-fix days from Oporto, we have certain
oJ the Qjieen of Portugal hav
ing recirided her truce with the
and the failing of a Portuguese squadron to
expel the pirates From tha Atlantic.
The fhifjs Mary & Ann, and Glasgow,
failed from Ulbori under convoy.
In consequence of the unfavorable intel
ligence from Berciud 1, by the (loop Inde
pendence, Capt Youn the premium of
ijifuraiic', on vessels 1 ading fertile Wefi-
I die , has risen to 50 per cem.
Captain Norton ot the Schooner Andrew,
arrived here in 30 days from Kingflon, Ja
maica, he informs that he. left there about
40 iail ot American veflels, among which,
4 cr 5 belonging to this port, ail detained
there.
C iotain Wills of the brig Molly, arrived
t! ere in 14 days from St. Croix, he inform*
tl.a: he left there the following veflels, viz.
Big Capt. Hemming, Philadelphia brig
William Pennotk, flalliday, do.brig Planter
Hawkins, and the Newton, de Costa, do.
was to fa 1 in a fhert after him.
Alio arrived here, tlsu brig Swallow,
Cap-ait! Read, in 22 days from Antigua,
he informs, that the Schooner Fayette,
Captain Wiat, of Boilonj from North-
Carolina, bound to Martmico, was cap
tured, 011 her paflage,' and carried into
Antigua, where Ihe was condemned 2
days before Capt. Read failed from that
place.
Cspt. Foster of the schooner Sally, wa«
boarded by the British frigate Terplichore,
on the 14th inft. the frigate was bound to
some port in the United States, having.on
board the French General of Guadaloupe.
By a paiTenger in the above veflel from
Cape Nichola Mole, we learn that the re
publicans have lately gained the advantage
in several actions with the English and Spa
hifn troops ; from the latter, they have re
taken Go naive*.
(£)" " The Garret" No. i, 2, 3, 4,
<ind 5 are received—An interview with
the writer, or foine person deputed by
him is requefled.
NEW THEATRE.
Mr. Chalmers' Night.
THIS EVENING,
May 21.
Will be performed,
A COMEDY, called
7/s<? Indian.
St"ckwell, Mr. Fennell
Belcour, Mr. Chalmers
Capt.Dudley, M - . Green
Charle D jdley, Mr. Cle eland
Major O'Flaheriy, ' Mr. WMtloclc
Stukely, Mr. De M>ulin
I'ulmer, Mr. Finch
V.irland, Mr. Bates
S Mr. BlifTe.t *
Lady Rufport, Mrs. Shaw
Charlotte Rufport, Mrs. Marfhali
Louila Dudley, Miss Wdlems
Mrs. Fukner, Mrs. Rowfon
Lucy, Mrs. Cleveland
Housekeeper, Mrs. Bates
End of the Comedy, Mr. Chalmers will
recite GARRICK's ODE, on erecting a
statue in honor of Shakespeare.
The vocal parts by Miss Broadhurft, Miss
Wiliems,' &c.
To which will be added,
A Pantomi ,«ic Sketch, in one ail
called the
Triumph of Mirth;
O R,
Harlequin s Animation.
\ In which will be introduced the Animating,
Gladiator, and Dying Scenes.
The chara&er of Harlequin, (fur that night
only), by Mr. Chalmers
Don Pafticio, Mr. De Moulin
Don Ronando Sangrado, Mr. Cleveland
Slfdero, Mr. Grefn
Magician, Mr. Warrcll
Waiter, Mailer Warrell
Statuary, Mr. Darley jun.
Clown, Mr. BliiTett
Mirth, (withafong) Miss Eroadhurlt
Colombine, Miss Willems
To conclude with a dance by the charac
ters.
Tickets to he had of Mr. Chalmers, at No
63, Third street, fj.ith, and at the usual p]a- -
ces.
On Friday, the DUENNA, with RO
BINSON CRUSOE, or Harlequin Friday,
for the benefit of Mr. Bates.
Mr. Morris's night will be on Monday
next, the 26th inlt.
A -**treasury Department. ;
Revenue-Office, May 7th, 1794-
NOTICE is htieb) given, that Proposals
will be received at the Office of the CommT
fioner of the Revenue, for Ship I imber of
the following kinds, fu»table for the building
of the Frigates authorized by Law. A par
ticular detail of the fiz£s and proportions will
be communicated, on application at the said
Office.
White Oak Timber and Plank.
"98 Pieces of various Dim en flops, includ
ing Keels, .Floor and Rifihg Timbers,
&e. for a Veifel oi or *5° eet
Keel.
27,000 Feet of Plank, Scantling, Wal
u pieces, Bilge §t r eak:, Clamps, &c. «3ce
« 200 Logs, for various ues«*
'Z Pitch Pine.
Feet of Plank for Decks.
"u Beams, from 4 2 to 28 feet long, and
* Z from 10 by 12 to 15 by 18 inches thro'.
£ 50,000 Locust Treenails, 18, 24 and 30
inches long.
5,000 Feet of Inch and half-inch Cedar
Board'.
30,000 Feet of Yellow Pine Boards and
Scantling.
Persons willing to supply any part of tqe
above Timber for one Ship, or in proportiou
for the whole fix, will make; their Proposals
accordingly tu&f3 w
Scheme of a Lottery,
To raise 39,900 Dollars y on 266,000
Dollars, deducting 15 per Cent. from
the Prizes—this Lottery confijls of
38,000 Tickets, in which there are
14,539 Prices and 23*461 Blanks,
Being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
TH E bire&ors of the Society for eftablifliing
Ulcful Manufactures, having resolved to
erc£ LOTTERIES tor raifmg One Hundred
Thousand Dollar s, agreeably to an A& of
the L< p'.ftature of the State of New-Jeifey, have
1 appointed the following persons to fuj*i iritr'nd
and dire# the drawing ot the fame, viz. Nicho
las Low, Rnlus King, Herman Lt Roy, James
Watson, Richard Harrifon, Abijah Hammond,
and' Cornelius Ray, of the city ol New-York —
Thomas Willing, j'»feph Ball, Matthew M'Con
nel and Andrew Bayard, ot the city of Phila
delphia—His Excel' ncv Richard Howell, Esq.
Eltas Boudmot, General EI.3S Dayton, James
Parker, John Bayard, DoCtpr Lewis Donham,
Samuel W. Stockton, Jo(hi\a M. Wall.xc, Jofqph
Bloomfield, and Eliftia Boudinot, of N w-Jer
fey, who offer the following Scheme ot a Lot
tery, and pledge themfov-ea to the public, that
they will taki every-dfluranc andaprecaution in
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers,"from tirwe'to time, 1 as received, into
the Banks at New-York and Philadelphia, to
remain for thepurpoleof paying Pnz s, which
(hall be immediately discharged by a check
npon one of the Banks.
SCHEME:
1 Prize of 20, poo Dollars is 20,000
1 10,000 10,000
2 5»ooo 10.000
| 5 2,000 10.000
10 1,000 10,000
20 500 10,000
100 100 . 10,000
S°° 5° 15'°°°
1000 20 20,000
2000 15 30,000
3000 12 36,000
8100 10 81,000
14,539 262,000
23.461 Blanks. Firfl drawn number, 2,000
Laftdrawn number, 2,000
38,000 Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
The drawing will commence, under the in
fpe&ion of a Committee of the Superintendants,
as soon as the Tickets are fold,ot which timely
notice will be given.
The Superintendants have appointed John N.
Cumming, of Newark, Jacob R. Hardenberg,
of Ncw-Brunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, ot
Trenton, as immediate Managers thereof, who
have given ample security for discharging the
ttoift reposed in them.
(pT In order to fecurethe punflual payment
of the Prizes, the Superintendantsof the Lottery
have dire&ed that the Managers shall each enter
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four fufficient
securities, to perform iheir mlli u&ions, the fub
ft?nce of which is
ftai. That whenever either of the Managers I
fhail receivethe sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he shall iramdiately place thefame in one of the
Banks of New-Yoik or Philadelphia, to the
ciedit of the Governor of the Society, and such
of the Superintendants as live in the city where
the monies are placed, to remain there nntil the
Lottery is drawn, for the paymnt of the Prizes.
11. The Managers t6 take lufficient fecunty
for any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
refponnble for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Monies received and paid into the Bank, ab
ft>a£U of which shall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January 1, 1794.
On application to either of the above gentle
men, information will foe given where tickets
may be had.
F- bruary 24. tn&ftf.
To be Let,
For Merchants Compting Houses or Public
Offices,
Two brick 3 story Houses,
HAVING 6100 m, ... each, „ llh fireplace,
beside garret., fi.uate an the south wtfterly fide
of Dock Greet, between Pear and wilou,
ltreets. Enquire of 1
BENJAMIN IV. MORRIS.
As" l O. , uth&stf
"TAD! IRA, I
SHERRYy J
PORT, } WINES of the firft quality
LISBON, & |
TENEKIFFE j
OUi Jamaica Spirit, Antigua and Weft India .
Rum.
ComaC) French and Peach Brandies
Claret and Port Wine of a fiiperior quality
in cases.
Wine Gyder and Vinegar, in pipes and hhds.
Corks in Bales, Havannah Segars in Boxes.
Philadelphia Porter, in Calks and Bottles.
London do. in do. do.
Philadelphia Ale and Beer in do. do.
London do. in do. db ai d
Cyder :n barrels and bottles, preparedfor ex
portation or i mediate use,
FOR SALE BY
Benjamin Moris*
The corner of Dock and Pear flreets,
W ere he lias provided I'imab'lc (tores and
vaults, for the reception of
WINE S, &c.
Which hi- proposes to itore or dispose of on
com nii/Hon
Captains of vefleh and others supplied with
any Off above LIQUORS bottled, and sea
stores in gene al put up.
Mav 9 tu&f2m
Concluding Sales.
THE Subscriber having enttrtd into Co
partnership with Mr. John Bartholomew in
the bufin»fs of Sugar Refining, will dispose
of the
Remaining Slock on hand
CONSISTING OF
Silver, Plated, & Japan Wares,
Plated Coach & Saddle
Furniture, &c. &c. .
By Wholcfale at Prime Coji for Ca/h.
John Dorfey,
No. 22, North 3d ftretft.
April t . tnth&r6w
A 'New Novel.
Totlie LADIFS of Philadelphia.
This Day is Publtjhed by
MATHEW CAREY,
nB, Market lireet,
Pricc, bound, of a dollar, sewed
in n atble paper,-halt » dollar,.
Charlotte, a tale of Truth,
IN TWO VOLUMES.
By Mrs. RO\VSON, of the New Theatre,
Pbladelphia, Author of Vi&oria, the fn- !
quifiror, the Filie rfe Cbaniine,- &o.
Of Charlotte, the Reviewers have given j
the following character.
IT may be a Tale ol- Truth, for it is oot
unnatural, and it i , a talc of real d'iltrefs.—
Chariot* e, by the irtifice of a teachei, recom
m nded to a fcho'ol, from hnmanity rather
than a Convi&ion of her integrity, or the re
gularity of her farmer condnft, is enticed
from her governed, and accompanies a young
■>mcer to America.-—The marriage ceremo
fly, if not forgotten, is pollponed, and Char
lotte dies a martyr to the ioconftancy of the
over, and treachery of his friend —The litu
tions are artless and affecting—the
ations natural and pathetic ; we should •<=>•
for Charlotte if such a person ever existed,
who for one errqr scarcely, perhaps, deserved
so severe a punifliment. If it is a fidtion,
poetic juftiee is not, we think,, properly dif
tributed
Said Carey has jitjl publ'ijhedy
A 2 sheet map of Kentucky
compiled by Elihu Barker, price one dollar
and two thirds.
War Atlas, containing maps of France,
Germany, Spa n,ltaly, the United Provinces,
the Netherlands, and the Weft Indies. Price
two dollars.
Map of New Jersey—Hals a dollar.
Maps of Vermont, Connecticut, Delaware,
Georgia Price three eighths of a dollai
each.
April 29. tuth&s3w
Books by audtion.
On Wednesday, Thursday, and Saturday
next, at four o clock in the afternoon, at
J. Connelly's Auction Store,
No. 78, foutb FrontJlreet,
Will be continued the sale of a valuable
Colle&ion of BOOKS,
Mostly new or in good condition, beginning
at No. 15 7 in the catalogue.
They may be seen any day prior to the
sale from 10 till 2 o'clock, at No. 26, Spruce
street, where catalogues may be had and com
missions received from any persons who can
not attend the sale.
Ma > r ; 9 dts
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Grandon, from
Petersbur g in Huffia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf, viz.
Hemp,
bar iron,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
AND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon y
No. 22, Walnut-street.
March 4,1794. diw 3 tawtf
' : ,■■■..■ .. ,
Beef, Pork, and Butter:
BEEF, prime and cargo o» good qnality
POltK, prime and cargo of do.
BURLING lON PORK
BUTTER, in firkins
ALSO,
A CARGO OF
mahogany,;
Landing Weft's Lumber Yar<l, rear
Pool's Bridge, from on board the Fail Ameri
can, fioin the Bav of Honduras, and
3000 bushels of Good Wheat,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN SKYRIN,
No. 35, No. Water Strut.
May IJ. dtgg
Just Published,
,1 one handsome volume, nrao. Price 55
AND FOR SALE BY
JOHN ORMROD,
At Franklin's Head, No. 41, Cbefuut
StreU,
AN ESSAY ON THE
Natural Equality of Men,
On the Rights that result from it, and on the
Duties which it imposes.
To which a MEDAL was adjudged, by the
Teylerian Society at Haarlem.
Corrected and Enlarged;
By WILLIAM LAWRENCE BROWN,
£>. D.
ProfefTor of Moral PhilofophV and the La*v
of Nature, and of Ecclefialtica! History ;
and Minister of the Englilh Chuich at U
trecht.
Aliquid Temper ad communcm utilitatem af
ferenduin. Cicero.
The Firjl American Edition.
THEgrand principle of Equality, if right
ly underftoodj is (he only bafi-, on which
universal jnltice, faced order, and perfect
freedom, can be firmly built, and permanent
ly secured. The view of it exhibited in this
efTay, at the fame tiuiethaE it repreJies the
insolence of office, the tyranny of pride*,' and
the outrages of oppression ; confirms, in the
most iorcible manner, the neceffirv of subor
dination, and the just demands of lawjul.au
thority. So far indeed, from loofenirg the
bands of society, that it maintains inviolate,
every natural and every civil d:ilindboh,
draws more clo'ely every Ibcial lie, unites in
one harmonious and justly proportioned lyf
tem, and brings men together on the even
ground of the inherent rights of human na
ture, of reciprocal obligation, and of a cum
mfon relation to the community.
March 18. t„tf
STATE of SOUTH-CAROLINA;
In the House of Reprefentaitves,
Dec tmb f k 2lit, 1793.
WHEREAS the Cornmilfiwners ol public
Accounts, h v • reported, that they can
not proceed to the of the Xrcafury J
Accounts, rcipe&in.cr fpLpal Indents, without *
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation :—Therefore,
Refolded, That al! holders of fpccial Indents
be dirtied, and recjuino,on or before the firft
day of November n xt, to deliver the fpt cial In
dents in thjeir poflVfJion to one or other of the
CommiiTioners of the Treafory, who are to give
receipts for the fime, and to rcp'it to tUeConi
rmflioners on public accounts, on or befoie the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
theis refpe&ively received, and also to the Le
gifiature, at their meeting to November next,
and that all fpccial Indents not rendered into
the Treasury a.> above, on or before the firft day
of November next, ihall be, and the fame are
heieby barred.
R'cjcivtd, That public .notice of this refolutio»
be given in the fevcral Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And that the Delegates of this
State in the Congrds of the £Jn!tcd States, be re
fuelled to cause this rcfoluiion to be puhlifticd
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will he
made for the cxpenccs attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be ftnt to the
•Senate tor their concurrence.
Bv order of the House,
JOHN SAN! OR D DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
December ? 1/1,1703.
Refofved, That this House do concur with the
Houle of Reprefcntatives in the foregoing reso
lutions.
Ordered, That the -resolutions be sent to the
Houle of Reprefcntatives.
by order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE &S-ALEOP
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b«gs leave to of
fcr his fervicesto his frieiids and others, in the
line ol a Stock Broker. Thofc who may please
to favor him with their hufinels, may depend
upon having it tranfafted with the utmost fide
lity and dif patch.
Orders fioin Philadelphia, Bollon, or any
other part of the United States, will be ftriflly
attended to. LEONARD BLEECKER.
m&thtf
PHILA IELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 3
South F jurth-Street.
1