EVENING ADVERTISER.
No. 54 of Vol. V.]
7o be Sold at Public Vendue,
On I*riday the I ith day of April next,
at the house of John 'Tbuwfon, in Perth-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN THAT CTTY.
r I HE Lot contains eleven acrr.« t on which is
an orchard of grafted apple trees, a well of
excellent water, a large (lore c lU-rn, a„d a verv
eointm.dlous ftahlr and coaeh-houfc, and agrea'l
quantify ol the best building Honrs in the walls
of the lioufe, which was formerly built lor the
residence of the Governors of New-Ji-rfry. The
fllu.itior, of this Lot is so well known 'or us
health)aefi and beautiful profpeft ol the Rjriion
nvei to the weft of the bav. and Sandy-Ho..k to
lbce. lt, that a further d.fciiption is unnicrffaiy.
The conditions of Talc will be, one thiid ol the
■purcinfe money to be paid on the firft day ol
May next, when a gooo and fuflici. n' Dred wih
be given to the puichiiler, by Wu rn Ru-
THE*ruRO, Esq. Prefidertt of the Board ol
Proptietois ol the Eallern Divifiuu of NVw-
Jerfcy, ana the remaining two thirds fatislaito
nly secured in tqual annual pavmcnts.
By order of the Board,
JAMES PARKER, Rtgifter.
Perth. Amboy. February fj, *794 SJU2m
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City T(ivcrn, and
of the Merchant's Coffee-Houfe of this
City
RESPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
the Public >n general, that he ha.* THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippcji-HtreeU be
tween Third and Fourth-Streets, at. the .Haute
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmonj, which
has lately been greatly improved, 3nd is now
very commodious ; whore he ha* lurnifhed Him
frH wiih the belt of LIQUORS, and will f u ,-„
nifh a TABLE for Parties, w'th tjie best provi
sions the Markets' afford, at any hour, on the
lhorteft notice. From his long experience in
this line of business, he flatters himfett he (hall
be able t« give fatisfa&ion to all who nwy pleafc '
to favor him with their company. "**
Philadelphia, January 29,1794.
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public, That from the encouragement
he has receivid, fiom-Ceveral.>cfpe£Uble Gentle
mrn, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer ftis feiviccj to
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidence
in him ; and h- allures those who employ him,
that their confidence (hall not be miiplaced;
bin it (ball be his conUant endeavor, to pay the
Ati&eft attention to their best rntereft, in all ne
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber,
in State-Strict, over Mr. David Town/end, Watch
Makei't Shop. Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of all kinds, are bought and fold; and
•wheie Com million Bofiuefs of all kinds, will be
transited on icafonable terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be constantly exposed lor sale, on
•oimniflion.
CaCb paid for Salem, Providence, and
Portsmouth BILI S.
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York, has any Hujinefs to travfacl at BoJlen,
in Paper Negoaations, he will be happy t» be em
ployed vn commijfiun.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794.
War Department.
January 30th 179<4.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
militaiy invalids of the United States,that the
funis to which they aie entitled for fix months
of their annual pension, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on the sth of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the CommifTioners of the Loans
within the dates refpcltivcly, under the usual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
mutt be accoitipanud with legal evidence of
their refptflive office*, and also of the time the
invalids died, whose petition they may claim.
By commana of tHe Prcfidint
of the Un-ted S»atr«,
H. KNOX,
Secretary oj IVar.
, (£s* The printers in (he refpeftive states are
requeued to publifti the above in their newfpa
pcn (or the (pace of two months.
januaiy 30.
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible fitiiation, —alio a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 acres of
land, or 42 acres of Jand and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of the city, in lize or convenience.
For terms apply to the printer.
January 23.
of tie fjttiifeij) fates
THE I rufleesof an Academy,
or any individual wiihing to engage a
perion to superintend the Education of youth,
in the course of ftudiej ufnallv adopted iu
Academ.es, or any branch of biHinefs requir
es nnn'ar qualifications, may open a com
munication with a perion willing to lie em
ployed ;t few years (for a generom compenfa
t'O") by writing (letters to be port paid) to
Mr.John Ffmno, Philadelphia.
Printers to the Southuw<l would po/RHy
o jgr Come aj Iheifjrundt, by fojentng thtrUresnnjr
*Jr-w tnnrs n, their pjpen.
Ffbrwiry 8. j...
Excellent CLARET,
In hogllc.di and in lafis of 5 o bolllcs cach.
A L 5 O,
A few cases Champaigne Wine $
madeira,
In pipes, hoarheads antl quarter casks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. lit, South From itrcet.
Jan. 2, , 7g4 . dtf
Parry and Mufgrave,
Golrffmitbs & Jewellers.,
No. 42,
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY &fine CUTLERY,
. Which tlie.y will dispose of on the most rea
sonable teuns. Devices in hair. Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and silver
way, done as usual.
December 24,
City Coinmiffioners Office,
January 30, 1794.
TN purfuancr of a Ktfolv,- ot the Common
X Council, daied the aolli day of January,
1794, tor dividing the C ity into five Diltrifls,
by lines diawn East and Weft, whereof each ol
llir City Commiflioners is to take the fuperin
tcndance ot one of the said Ditlnfts, and to be
accountable tor the clcanfing, good order and
tegularnv of the fame.
The CommiffioneTs have accordingly made
the following arrangement for the prefer.t :
iJiJlriß the Ijl. N-aihan Boys, to have the
charge of that part of the streets, lanes and alleys
from Ccdar-ft-teei, to ihe north fide of Spruce
ttieet r
■ DiJlriß the id. Hugh Roberts, from the north
fide of Spruce-street to the north fide of Walnut
street.
D >/"* Joseph Claypoole, from the
north Hoe ol Walnut to the south tide of H*h
ftrcet. 6
Dijiriß the \th. William Moulder, from the
north fide of Hiyhi lo the north fide of Mulberry
street '
Dijlrid the 5///. Nicholas Hicks, from the
north fide of Mulberiy, to the north-fide of Vine
ftrtet.
N B. The carriage way in Market-street, is
under the charge of the CommifTioners generally,
for the present, the foot-ways 011 the north and
Inuth fides thereof, are conne&ed with the ad
joining Dtftrifts rcfpeftively.
!.xtradl of a letter from a gentleman in
Amsterdam, to his correspondent in
" There is now at this place, a certain
Mr. , who pastes for an American,
but by his broaddialeft, appears to be from
the high hills of old Caledonia* This man
offers for sale cities and towns of very con
spicuous names, on your continent, of
which we have never heard before, and not
to be met with in the latest Geographies
of America. He has ornamented our
coffee-houfes, and other public places, with
maps and plans representing the fame in
the moll charming manner, and fills our
newspapers with lengthy dissertations on
their importance—Being, however, high
in his price (for he retails his gmds by the
foot and inch) I am apt to think this
opulent monopolist, who thus deals in ci
ties and towns as Dutchmen do in Gin,
will (like Robinson Crufoe on his island)
remain sole sovereign of those enchantimr
spots." b
<tam
micth—tf
Thursday, February 15, 1794.
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVE FOR SALE,
elegant AJortmtnt of
mw&ftf
Ext raff from the Minutrs,
JOHN MEASE, CM.
DUMFRIES, (Virg.)
dated Nov. I, 1793.
CONGRESS
House of Representatives.
January 24.
In committee of the -Me on Mr. Ma J Jon's
resolutions.
Mr. Boudinot's observations concluded.
He at length adverted to the refutation
before the committee, and said, it confid
ed of two parts, one relative to higher du
ties, on the manufactures of foreign nations
not having any treaty with us, the other
to further reftiiaions on the shipping of
thole natious : To these, then, Mr. Bou
dinot said he would confine himfelf, and
thereby greatly narrow the debate. The
firft enquiry that obvioully prcfentrd itfelf,
in order to determine the effect, is on
'whom will theje higher duties fall ? The
general principle agreed on all hands is,
that the conlumer pays the duty : The
citizens of the United States, are the con
sumers; the citizens of the United States,
must therefore pay the higher duties.
This reasoning proceeds on the fa&,
that our citizens purchase the manufac
tures.
1 lie articles mentioned, are either ne
cefiaries or fuperfluities. If neceflkries,
our Citizens must have them : If fuperflu
ities, as freemen they will have them, if
they choose them ; they will lay out their
money as they please, unless reftii&ed by
laws founded on the true interests of the
nation,
But it may be said, that they may be
lupplied from home manufaaures, or from
nations in alliance with us.
The firft cannot be true, as will be evi
dent from the present state' of our mani.
faftures. The supply equal or bearing
any reasonable proportion to the demand,
is impossible for many, many years to
come.
As to other nations, it may fairly be
find, with regard to the supply, that
France and Holland, are the only nations
that can be contemplated. It would be
cruel in the extreme, to put France to
the ted, under her present critical and
d.ltreffing situation. She has called all
her citizens into the field: If any can be
spared, it must be for the purpose of her
agriculture, or the manufacture of arms
alone. It would expose her to the charge
of inability, without giving her the
chance of a fair experiment.
Every gentleman on the floor, knows
that Holland independently considered, has
no possible way of yielding ui a supply.
If flie does it, it must be as a medium
between Great Britain and us : So that
directly or indirectly, we /hould receive
the supply from Great Britain, which
would evade the intended effect of the
measure.
The next enquiry is, how will encrea
fing the duties on our own citizens, af
fe<a the government of Great Britain, so
a» to accomplish the desired end !
If their manufacturers obtain their
price. If their merchants receive their
commissions, how will it affect them, that
our citizens pay high duties on the arti
cles here, before they are consumed ?
It may be answered.
By leflening the consumption.
By increasing our own manufactures.
By encouraging other nations, to cease
a competition in our markets.
It we judge from past experience, our
habits of ceconomy are not such, as will
produce this effca, to any considerable
purpose. Our citizens seldom refufe gra
tifying themselves, on account of a differ
ence of fix-pcnce or a (hilling in the yard:
If they earn their money hardly, they
will spend it at their pleasure. During
the late war we know the prices were in
creased 100 per cent, yet neither the
obligation of law—the love of their coun-
try or even in some cases, the risque of
life will deter, fiom gratifying themselves
in the enjoyment of foreign manufac
tures.
[Whole No. 512.]
The increase of our home manufactures*
is a moll desirable objedt, and there waj
no gentleman of the committee more de
sirous of promoting them, than he was.
Bnt this could only be accomplilhed by
time. It was a progrefiive work, and
was now hastening to perfe&ion, as fall
as was compatible, with a due attention to
agriculture ; but no gentleman would pre
tend to fay, that even' the hope of a com
petent supply, was rational, for many
years to come; nay he verily believed,
that if all the wool of the fifteen States
was brought together, it would not af
ford a supply of woolens for one date.
But it was proper to look to the encou
ragement already given to our manufac
tures.
The importation of the United States,
amounted to twenty millions of dollars;
' already laid, amounted to four
millions: This on an average, was 20 per
cent. This was a very feriousduty indeed,
and though principally designed to laife
a revenue, yet it also acted as bounties to
our manufactures, and when added to the
frwght, insurance, commissions and inter-
C p? ,d ' b y the importer of foreign ma
nufactures, every gentleman mull con
clude, that our citizens would not pati
ently submit to greater burthens, without
the most obvious necefiity. He added,
that if the fpecific articles referred to in
the resolutions, were individually consider
ed, the duties would amount to about
1J per cent, when imported in foreign
bottoms; which would be found very
heavy on those articles, and fufficient to
encourage our home manufactures, con
liftently with the ease of the citizcns.
Do not these duties already bear a fuffi
cient proportion to the capitals of our
merchants ? Some gentlemen have objec
ted to the easy credit afforded our mer
chants in Great Britain ; and yet in the
fame breath, are for demanding the small
capitals of their own, in duties, and re
tllcm l ' le advantage of foreign capi
tals, where they can be obtained. He
corfcfled he was not convinced of the dan
gers arising from public credit, which
were so warmly urged by the gentleman
from Virginia. When he looked at that
gentleman and attended to the zeal he dif
covcred, in what he thought so efTential
to the welfare of his country, it afforded
an answer to every objection, so ably
supported by him. The gentleman had
acknowledged and lamented the preval
ence of credit, and that from Great Bri
tain ; in the state he came from, he fai<l
it universally prevailed, and had its effeA
on the importing merchant : From him
to the country {hop keeper, and thence
to the farmer, so that the dependance on
the merchant in Great Britain, was to be
feared through every part of the commu
nity, and the mod dangerous influence
of English politics was to be dreaded
But was there a state in the Union, where
the policy of Great Britain was reprobat
ed, more than in the state of Virginia >
Was not the conduct of that gentleman
in the present debate, as well as that of
his colleagues, full proof that the credit
he complained of did not produce the fa
tal effeas he feared ? Was not Virginia
the large ft, and if we might judge from
her visible capital, (slaves) the richest
state in the Union, and yet (he had always
been in the habit of unbounded credit, in
Great Britain.
Mr. Boudinot then reminded the com
mittee of the nature of the trade with
Great-Britain. Did the Britirti merchant
bung his manufa&ures and offer them for
sale in this country: No—the American
merchant employed the merchant in Eng
land to purchase of the manufacturers, on
a commifiion of jor 10 per cent. The
goods were exported at the risque of the
American merchant, and whether the ccr
fumer paid a high or low duty on them,
on their arrival in this country, was a
matter of but secondary conlid'eration to
the Brilifh merchant.Mr. Boudinot then observing on tbe
patriotic conduct of our merchants, with
regard to their obedience to the revenue
laws, which he thought did them.greater
honor than could be claimed by (hose of
any other country, warned the committee
againit carrying the matter too far, he
warned them not to make it t}»«;beil trade
on lair calculation, that one merchant
ciHild p'irfue, to defraud the government
oT the duties. When once fmnggling be
came-f biili'fiefs which the rnei chants ge
nerally thought themielves jullilicd in, it
V'ould be like powerful aflailants getting
poflFeition of a It rang fortrefs, it woutd not
be ealy to diilodge them. It was out of
the power oi laws to pi event finuggling,
if ale merchants once determined to a-
duj't it,
Mr. Boudinot fai-I, he bad carefully a
♦oided faying any thing about the Algc
rines, because although in his private opi
nion l»o thought circumstances bore hard
againll Great Britain; yet as a legislator
he could rot lay his C lger on the evidence
?nd fay this or that proves the fact, and
as he bdieted some fadtshad been miltak
en, he was afraid of acting without ade
quate proof. Bciides, although lie was
at firtl uHcAfd by the fuggeflion, yet on
carefully investigating she prccefs of the
b'ifinefs, he thought he could fee reasons
which might render it poflible that Great
Britain had it good excuse for her couduft
independent of American confederations.
Every gentleman knows that Holland had
a confiderabk trade with Portugal, which
ilie was obliged to carry on with a convoy
of men of war on account of the Algcrines.
Portugal had three or four ships continu
ally cruizing 011 the failre account. Great
Britain (with these states) was engaged
In a was* with Trance, whose fleet not
withltauding all her difficulties was rather
fuperiof to that of Great Britain, It be
came then a coniiderable objedt vvilh Great
Britain to emancipate these (hips of her
allies from other ferviccs, so ao to operate
with her in the common cSufe. Again it
v.at pofliMe that Great Britain by pro
moting t hia truce with Holland and Por
tugal might find it ealier to persuade the
Algerines to declare war agsinft France
the common enemy ; this we are told has
been accompli (lied, and if so, must have
been a coniiderable obje£t with Great Bri
tain. If then these rcafons might have o
perated with Great Britain without ref
pedt to America, we ought at kaft to
wait till we are better acquainted with
facts, and this we may soon reasonably
expett from our foreign ministers, efpeci
aliy when we are officially told, that the
British agent who accomplished this truce,
had not heard from his court for eighteen
months.
On the whole Mr. Boudinot observed,
that, while the duties already laid on the
farmer, mechanic, laborer and other citi
zens of the United. States, were fufficient
ly high for the support of government and
the protection and encouragement of our
home manufadtures, while higher duties
must in the end fall on those who are al
ready opprelfed with those duties that are
neCcflarv ; wliile our citizens cannot avoid
the duties by a supply from home manu
fathires or those of foreign nations in alli
ance with us ; while he was of opinion
that nations not in alliance, cannot be af
fected by duties paid by our citizens, he
did not think this the time to encreafe the
duties on articles which must be consumed
in the United States, for purposes which
it cannot clearly Sc. indubitably be proved,
will answer very eflential and important
ends to our government and its citizens.
As to the fecund object of the resolu
tion, he had been always of opinion that
it is the trde way of accomplishing the
ends proposed. He had ever joined the
gentleman who brought this fonvard, in
considering the regulating of foreign (hip
ping, a principle of great importance to
the interest of the United States, and
whenever an answer (hiH be obtained
from our minister abroad, by which the
state of the prefenl negociation (hall ap
pear to be unfavorable to the United
!{tatcs, lie would be ready to enter fully
into the measure, and hoped then there
would be a perfect unanimity in that
committer, which Would greatlv ensure
the efficacy of the measure. But as
there was reason to expert the iflue of
the negotiation in a short time, he should
be unwilling to agree to any measure of
this nature having a principle of retalia
tion for its obiedi, till the real grievance
could be known, and of conrfe the com
mittee better capable of judging of the
adequate remedy. He was averse from
forcing any nation into a commercial trea
ty with us. It ought to b6 a voluntary
att„and he was for allowing the fame
freedom of action to other nations, we
claimed for ourselves. But when \ve
could not obtain a reciprocity of benefits,
he tl«ought we had the undoubted right
of sonferiing a reciprocity of rfcltrictions.
Ilis idea was, when we did proceed on
this principle, we (hould make old and
wife nations our example, and copy their
aits. This could give no reasonable of
fence;, birt if offence was taken, the an
swer would be obvious and convincing.—
Great Britain by her commercial regula
tions had role to power and opulence ;—
This gave us a right to copy her exam
ple, anil whenever the executive jjave us
information that .negociation was ineffec
tual, Mr. Boudmot was ready to pursue
this remedy, as the only salutary and ef
fectual one, but as this period had rot
yet arrived, he (hould wait with some de
gree ot patience for the iffiie, which as a
friend to both countries he hoped would
be a favorable one, and (hould according
ly vote for the present, againll the reso
lution now before the committee.
After Mr. Boudinot had spoken, Mr.
Ames role, and remarked that it had been
repeatedly asserted in a vagae manner that
our commerce is unfavorably (ituated, he
irilhcd the fpecific grievances dated and
the facts on which they are said to be
founded vouched for. One fadt is worth
a dozen theories.
Mr. Nicholas was aftonifited that the
gentleman poffelled-fo little American feel
ing, as so often to repeat the enquiry he
had just made, or that he (hould attempt
to divert the attention of the committee
by a frivolous diftinftion between com
mercial and political considerations. The
friends of the resolutions had supposed it
unnecessary to enumerate, they conceived
that every American must feel the wrongs
we fuffer, and they offered the resolution
ao a counter-terror. It appeared, howe
ver, that they were mistaken and must
be under the necessity of enumerating
grievances; it is necessary to tell the
gentleman of the hostilities of the sava
ges on our frontieis, of the murder of
our citizens & plunder of our settlements
—he must be told of the commercial ad
vantages wrested from onr hands, by that
mean policy which lets loose the Algcrincs
upon our defencclefs merchantmen.
He hoped it would be allowed that
this is a commercial as well as political
injury. He enumerated ths other injuri
ous reftri&ions imposed on our trade by
Great Britain, contrary to the law of na
tions and every colour of right, and then
said, that finee we fuffer in blood and
trenfure, it becomes proper to enquire
whether we can bed refill, with arms or
by making regulations in the ipirit of
those proposed, the effects of which will
be felt by them in the diftrefles of their
fubjedls. The committee had been told
by gentlemen who opposed the resolutions
how incapable we are of supporting any
but a defenfive war, our only alternative
then is something like the resolutions, is
to withdraw from them at lead the sus
tenance they receive from us.
Some gentlemen, had, to be sure, redu
ced ths question to very narrow ground,
when they chose to throw on one fide as
inapplicable the injuries wc fuffer from
Indians and Algerines and the injuries
our commerce endures from pointed com
mercial regulations, and when all these are
put out of the question they triumphantly
ask, where are your grievances ! They go
further and attempt to (hew that America
is as favored in a commercial point of view
as (he has a right to expect. The regu
lations against us in the Weft-Indies are
not grievances because they are of an an
cient date, that they are part of an uni
form system and that there is nothing in
them particularly pointed at Americans.
This, he believed, is a mistake ; there
is an express law since the year 1780 ex
cluding all articles from the Weft-Indies
unless carried there under particular cir
cumstances and in Briti(h veflell. This is
an injury ftriftly commercial.
In answer to a remark, that British
credit in Virginia does not appear to have
generated British influence he observed,
that the natural jealousy of and aversion
to foreigners, who do almost all the com
mercial business in that state, naturally
couuterafts the influence of that credit,
hut where no such countera&ing cause ex
ills, where mercantile tranfa&ioni are car
ried on by natives a (Tided by foreign cre
dit, there he believed the natural depen
dance of borrower on lender gare deep
root to that influence: But the measures
prspofed do not go to the deftrilttion of
credit, but only tend to present its abuse.
It has been (aid, that and Portu
gal could supply Great-Britain and her
dependencies with grain and flour. Fie
wondered at the argument being brought
forward as it is notorious that those coun
tries are among our beli markets for those
commodities.
A commercial treaty with Great Bri
tain, it is said, is nil desirable, because,
that we have with France is not benefici
al. Gentlemen Ihould recolleift the date
of that treaty, that when it was made we
had not much to give, and therefore not
a right to expect much, The committee
had been told that France had cheated us
when they made the treaty with us» be
cause it imposes some hardships now (he is
at war. This is owing to a contingency
unforefeen at the time of making the trea
ty, and if we had been involved in war
firtl, it with as much propriety might have
been said that we had cheated them.
Much had been said on the propriety
of permitting trade to regulate itfelf.—
He approved of the position, but when
re(lri£lions are laid on one fide, to restore
the equilibrium contrary reftriclions mult
be laid. We have no reasonable hope of
a repeal of those injurious reft ritt ions or a
redress of grievances from Great Britain.
At 3 time when these were a fubjetl of
negociation {he has let loose the Algerines
upon us ; what then are we to expect as
the iflue of those negociations ? Would
an individual in similar circumstances ex
pect an amicable settlement ! In the ex
iting state and nature of the grievances
we complain of, it is extravagance in the
extreme to expe£l tbey can be fettled by
negociation. When matters are doubt
ful, recourse is had to amicable settlement
—but if a man stabs my wife or child
will I call on him to explain himfelf ? No,
I will have recourse to my power over him
and procure fatisfaftion. The extent and
nature of the injuries we experience, put
all negociation out of the qucflion.
He dwelt on the propriety of the re
gulations, as the best weapons in our pow
er, to obtain fatisfa&ion.
He then took notice of the allusion
Mr. Dexter had made to the body politic
comparing it with the natural body, and
contended that our body politic, cramp
ed by Britilh trammels, will not acquire
the strength it it calculated to acquire, a»
speedily as if they were removed.
He adverted to the unnatural state of
our commerce with the Bri'tifh Weft-In
dies, which, though dependant on us for
neceflaries, give us laws, and fay we (hall
not carry those neceflaries in our own bot
tom®, except when they are in fear of fa-
mine.
He then went into a comparative view
of the ability of the United States, to sup
port a commercial conflict with Great Bri
tain, and bring her to reasonable terms,
and (hewed how sensibly a diminution in
our consumption of their manufa&ures
would effect her, and excite a rivalfhip
here and in France, to afford a fufficient
supply. The distress we (hould occasion,
it had been said, would induce Great Bri
tain to go to war with us. The mifchief
would spring from them, from their obsti
nate adherence to the measures (he had a
dopted, to our injury.
Some members of the committee had
infilled that the resolutions are a dishonor
able mode of refitting, and a mean mode
of making an attack, that is, that we are
to give out of our own hands the weapons
with which we can fight, and take up
those which we cannot wield,
He concluded with some observations
on Great Britain's present backwardness
to make a treaty of commerce with us;
indeed, he wondered how we could expe A
a treaty, from a nation that trampled on
our prostrate rights, and how we could
wi(h one, with a nation which persisted in
not executing some of the raoft important
points in the last.
Mr. Dayton remarked, that the inju
ries we have received from Great Britain,
had been painted in very strong colours,
and when a remedy is proposed, it turns
out to be only a set of regulations on pa
per ; the insolence of Britain, is contrast
ed with American weaknefi. If we real
ly labor under wrongs, something more
effe&ual than the measures proposed should
be contemplated ; but firft it is our duty,
to endeavor to obtain redress by pacific
means, and before irritating measures are
adopted, we should be well affureU that
redress has been refufed.
Mr. Madison few fio ground to hope
for redress from negociation, we r.uift he
fatisfied that that resource has failed. Ke
could not fee, admitting we are injured,
that we are bound by honor or prudence,
to resent the injury, by the last appeal, ttf
arms. It is bed, he conceived, to try
whether a more pacific weapon may not
prove even more effe&ual. We can make
use of none against Great-Britain, more
effectual than commercial weapons, in that
part, their commerce, that country is mod
vulnerable. He thought this the most
eligible time for the exercise of those
means moll clearly in our power.
(Delate to be continue J.)
From the General Advertiser.
AT a meeting of the paper Noblemen
of the United States and the emijfaries of
the Britijh government, to take into confi
deratiou the resolves of the Democratic
Society, irredeemable public debt in the chair
—the following resolutions were unanil
- adopted.
ift. Resolved, that.it is the una Tunable
right of flocl-holden, flock-jnhbers, lank
direSors, and /peculators to d'fcufs with
freedom, all fuljeSs f public concern, and
that as no other person or persons are seiz
ed with this right, as they alone have the
genuine interell of the public debt at
heart, it being the paramount interest of
America, to which all other interefls ought
to submit.
2d. Resolved, that the high profeffioiis
of dilmtereffed patriotism, held out by
those persons who are not •within the vortex
of the funding fiflem, are very equivocal
proofs of their public virtue; and that e
very man may be fufpe&ed of treason,
who dares question the republican tendency
or virtue of that system.
' 3d. Resolved, that it is highly politic
and generous, for any citizen of America
publicly in Congress and out of Congress,
to pour forth illiberal abuse against the
French nation, merely because they are
I the enemies of Great-Britain, and the
combined powers : We fay politic, becaufcr
powerful nations may thereby be conciliat
ed to lend a helping hand to our views,
and assimilate our government to theirs ;
we fay generous, because France assisted
the rabble of this country, to a [fume their
station in government, and thereby fruf
trated the good intentions of our beloved
mother country. And because France
may by her influence and example, deflroy
those feeds of aristocracy and monarchy,
which have been sown with so much secre
cy and care, and which we have so sedu
lously cheri (hed.
4th. Resolved 1 , that although-the public
faith has been pledged to France, to gua
rantee her Weft India pofTeffions, and to
admit her to certain privileges, to the ex
clusion of the Briti (li nation, all person*
or societies, who dirctllym indirealy ftiall
endeavourto preserve out national engage
ments, are guilty of a breach of our fund
ing intcrrjl, and ought to be confidcred as
enemies to America.
sth. Resolved, that the determination
expressed by the Democratic Society, to
abide by our national engagements, and pre-
Jerve our national friend/hips, is a flagrant
inttance of inconsistency ; for " Pacifi
cus" afTerts, that interell and not honour
or gratitude ought to be the bond of na
tions, and he is our bible. Tliat any in
sinuation against him or the President, is a
proof of impudence and presumption, as
experience teftifies that a man who has
once done right, can never do wrong.
6th. Resolved, that although we have
not had the spirit to resent the outrage*
committed upon our trade by the British,
nation, and that although we .have not
fulfilled the terms and spirit of our treatr
with France, we ought to resent with all
our strength, the attempts of France to
retaliate upon her enemies, and oblige her
by all the energy in our power, to observe
a scrupulous exactneis in her engagements
with us.
7th. Refolv-ed, that the oirtrages of
fered to our trade, or citizens bv Great-
Britain,. will probably be podded in a
much more proper manner, or with more
grace and compajpon, much more easily ob
tained by the ftitmij/ive conduct of our
national Congress, and the long tried for
bearance of our Executive, than by the
intemperate suggestions, and noisy decla
mation* of any ragamuffin society, or of
the people, wishing to bawl itfelf into po
litical confcquence, or to latvl the govern*
mept into honor and jujlice.
Bth. Resolved, that rhc trade of Ame
rica has been the means of proftratinjj herat the feet of some of the tyrants of Eu
rope, and that this trade, having been
greater with Great-Britain and her colo
nies, than with all the reft of Europe, its
interruption at this time, would overwneim
the British and treasury influence here, in
unfpeakabli diftrcfs; Neither could its
loss be supplied hy any commercial pn\ i
leges which could be granted by i' ranee,
overrun luith banditti, and desolated by in
(.-nd'mrtes; for trom Great-Britain, we
(hould import the pure bullion of corruption,
but from France the abominable drols oi
equality.
9th. Resolved, that however foreign
Ministers may be dbufed, for adhering
ftriflly to the inftru&ions of their own So
vereigns, yet these inltruftions are by no
means to juftiiy them for daring to hold
contrary opinions to the Sovereigns to
which they are sent ; neither is anv Mi
nister, on that account to affront the So
vereign to whom he is delegated, by as
serting the rights of his nation, or by any
conduct in oppofitiori to that supreme will.
10th. Resolved, that every government
has a natural right to make its treaties a
matter of convenience: That we rely im
plicitly on the abilities of our Executive
to do so, and that the sense of the United
States, refprfting our treaty with Fiance,
has been abundantly collected and evinced,
by the numerous addresses and resolves,
from stock-jobbers, speculators, Britilh
agents &c. from every quarter of the
Union,
nth. Resolved, tlvat Imperium in Im
p;no, or one Sovereign authority witain
another, I*B a fatal solecism in our present
politics, and incompatible with aristocra
tic liberty : We, therefore, deem any par
ticular Democratic Society (not anarifto
cratic one) rikng in the rfridft ol our great
energetic government, and pt'efuming to
give an opinion upon the measures of our
cunftituted authorities, fraught with the
deftru£tive materials of inequality, inimical
to proclamations, and usurpations, and
highly insulting to the officers of our go
vernment ; whtr confiding in their otfn
wisdom and energy, wifli neither the ad
vice nor interference of the people or the
mob, in any ft)ape whatever.
x zth. Resolved, that we are united in
the bonds of civil society, for the purpose
of making majlers and not agents:
That Liberty without a mailer is a delu
sive phantom, and that the greatest bles
sing which it can give is fulmijjion. That
the defpotilm of the people, is as tremen
dous ail evil, as that of a Monarch, for the
people always tyranmfe over themselves :
And that to encourage this Jefpotifm, is to
incur the execration of mankind.
Signed by order of the Meeting,
Alexander Pacificus, Secretary.
PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 13.
On the iotli inftont tlrerCommander of the
(hip ccf the Republic, La Viile de L'Orient,
gave* dinner on board to a number of French
and American citizens. After the repatl the
following toasts were drank, the two firft
under the discharge of 15 guns.
The French Republic, one and indlviGhle.
The United States of America.
The mountain ag.iinft which alt conspira
cies will be wrecked, the National Convention.
The patriotic Legiflaturc which (hall com
plete the- emancipation of the United State*
from foreign commercial bondage.
The State of Peimfylvania.
Tlic Militia of tin United States jmd the
National Guards of France —May thev ever
be united in the defence of the Rights ot Man
in both hemispheres.
Mav Americans not mistake the efforts
which France is making to extirpate the an
cient inveterate leprofy —Popery, Nobility,
and Royalty, with which the United States'
were never infected.
May the ariflocratical fcom of France find
a resting Dhce any where but in free America.
The divine juftrce which caused to spring
from the new world the avengers of the atro
cities committed by the tyrant 3 of the oH.
The great confederacy of mankind —may
it soon exist on the ruins of that of kings.
Thc art which guarantees to the people the
removal of the clouds of prejudice and fuper
f.ition which have enveloped Furcpe during
jfifteen centuries—thi art of printing.
The art which guarantees to free people
tueir Independence, and causes them to be re
adied by tyrants —the art of war.
The art which mrintains equality in peace
ful times, is the bed security for the cultiva
tion of all the virtues, and the main spring of
commerce- —Agriculture.
The art which (hortens thediftance between
remote nations, facilitates the exchange of
their riches, and themcre valuable interchange
of their principles of liberty—Navigation.
Truth—may it ever be the iliield of inno-
cencc.
The company were entertained "With a
number of patriotic for.gs, a. a narrative of
some historical traits of cour. c and patriot
ism; the effect which iheie oduced, fully
evinced that the company preit felt at one,
as one rejoiced at the triumph v. virtue, and
the effci
A number of volunteer *'
wfrds drank, among which
MitEin, and Genet, were not li
We are informed that Major Forsyth,
Marshal of the DiHricl of Georgia, in
serving a process lately, wast fiiot through
the heart by a plftol,
A Mr. Allen, wlio fled from his credi
tors in South Carolina, was the perpetra-
tor of this villainous ast — The people
rose in a body, ami would have facrificed
Allen on the spot, had he not eluded
their Vengeance by making his escape.—
Major Forfyth was highly refpefted in life
and his unfortunate fate is greatly lament
ed.
Extrafr of a' letter from liudfnn, Feb. 5.
" Inform Mr. — , that Justice
H. V. Hoofer was taken ill yesterday
morning at half pait 9 o'clock, and at I r
in the evening was a corpse—his wife wan
taken in che fame manner, is yet alive,
but despaired of-—fome conjecture they
are poisoned."
We hear that a vefiel has arrived at
Baltimore, which left Plymouth in Eng
land, the 29th November.—[The Balti
more papers by this day's mail contain
nothing new. J
At a public meeting of the Citizens of
Savannah, held by adjournment, at
. the Filature,on Wednesday the eighth
day of January, 1794 ? v
The Hon. Nathaniel Pendleton, in the
chair
Resolved, That as we esteem it one of
the greatell privileges of-free citizens,
publicly to express our disapprobation of
the measures of government, when we
conceive them to be conducive to impro
per -ends, and influenced by improper
motives; so, on the contrary, we eon -
ceive it equally our duty to cxprefs our ap
probation of great and extiaordinary a£ts,
which have been the result of constant vigi
lance, and prudent precautions for na
tional fsfety.
Resolved, That among the great and
good acts of our firlt rnagiftrate, we ate
particularly induced to express our war
med thanks and fulleft approbation of the
wife and judicious meafiires adopted du
ring the tecefs of Congress. We conceive
them to ertibtace as their great obje&s,
the honor, dignity, and t.u« interest of
America } and we feel a particular plea
sure, that after a public inyeftigation,
these a<3s have received the fmleft appro
bation of both houses of Congress.
Resolved, That we conceive it to be
the genius of true republicanism, to give
equal liberty and no more. That this li
berty can only be enjoyed where the laws
are supreme, and are refpefled. That
the attempt of Citizen Genet, the French
ambassador, to enlist and raise an armed
force, under French pay, within the ju
rifdi&ion of the United States, would,
if not early checked, have a direst ten
dency to a total fnbverfion of our laws
and government, and the equal libertyof
the citizens. That acts of this kind are
contrary to the law of nations, and repug
nant to the principles of every good go-
'ernment.
Resolved, That while we express a
just sense of (he indignant conduct of the
Frinch ambaffadoi, towards the Ameri
can government, we at the fame time de
clare we entertain a sincere gratitude and
attachment to the French nation.
Resolved, That in the present crisis of
European politics, we are of opinion it
is the true Uit<rett of America to remain
at peace—to observe a ftiict adherence to
the faith of treaties on our part, and with
fitmnefs to demand a leciprocal conduct
from other nat ion*.
Refulved, Tliat although we deprecate
war as one of the greatell evils that can
befal a nation, and that an appeal to
arms ought to be the dernier resort of a
republican government, it becomes the
United States to be prepared in this lad
extremity, to afTert and protedt their
rights against theencroachments or insults
of any foreign nation whatsoever.
Nathaniel Pendleton, Chairman,
The (hip Apollo, frorri Amsterdam,
the (hip Andiomeda, from Liverpool,
the (loop Dolphin, fiom Jaimaca, and
two 01 tbiee other veffelj are arrived iu
the Bay of Delaware. The (hips from
Europe do not biing any intelligence,
•he Apollo having failed about the be
ginning, and the Andiomeda, on the
91 h of November.
Capt. Shanklin, of the sloop Dol
phin, of Philadelphia, was taken on his
passage from Aux-Cays, and carried in
to Kingtton, (Jamaica) 011 the 22d of
September, where he lay till the 22d of
December, his cargo being libelled as
French property.
vere after
'.fhington,
'.ten.
About 10 days ago, about 40 leagues
from the Capes, he spoke a Srig from
Fayal to New-York, out 3 months,
in want of provisions; and a day or two af
ter, spoke the ship Wilmington, Capt.
M'Gee, from Li(bon, bound to Phila
delphia, out 13 wteks, in distress for
want of water.
The following American vefiels re
mained at Kingllon, on the 22d of De.
cember, and several others whose names
Capt. Slianklin cannot recoiled, in all
about 30 fail.
Ship Sainpfon, Capt. Barney, of Balti
moie,
Rifiug Sun, Wilkie, Philadelphia,
A diip belonging to Rhode-Island,
Brig Bctfey, Chace, Philadelphia!
Hannah, Post, ditto.
Fair American, ditto.
Lydia, Rinkcr, ditto.
Echo, Williams, New-YWk,
Alfred, , Baltimoie,
Minerva, Wade, Newbern, N. C.
Sally, Duguid. ditto,
Schr. Flora, ——, Philadelphia,
Sloop Sally, Quarles, Baltimore,
The two latt and their cargoce, con
demned.
FROM CORRESPONDENTS.
A party leader is born to trouble as the
foarks fly upwards. He has to fcuffle as
well as he can against the arguments of
his adversaries, and fomctimes his hard
fate compels him to contend against his
own.
When the regulations are near loft, he
cries out proteß trade. When the Alge
rines are to be kept at arms length, he
cries, trade if not worth fuck expence
The prote&ion of our tirade by regula
tions, is worth our exports, nay it is worth
our peace. The protection of our trade
by frigates, is not worth half what it will
roft in i'jCurance and redemption of cap
tives if we have no frigates. It will cost
twice, probably four times, as much to
neglect arming as to arm—yet it is cheaper
to do nothing than to defend ourselves.
If we regulate trade, and starve the
EngKth planters and manufacturers, our
enemy will want the pretext and the cou
rage to relent what we do.
If we but lift the hand in defence against
th? Algerine sabre, England will join the
Algerines.
Foreign influence is to be dreaded—
We ought to facrifice Our own citizens
for France—
We are not colonies to England, as
formerly—
Let us aflert our independence, and be
coitiC colonies to F rancc. Freedom of trade!
Let us hand-cuff and fetter it, in order
that our French friends may profit by this
new advantage.' It is reciprocity, to im
pose reftriftions in return for privilege,
and to give bounties to the French, and
pay taxes ourselves, for nothing. Such
advantages are worth fuffering and strug
gling fomc yerfrs to gaiit. Profit is to be
got by felf-denial—Trade will grow by
a non-importation. Benevolence will smile
to fee our customers starved. Commercial
liberty in a cage, will sing like a bird.
Whatever the glory of leading a party
may be thought to be worth, few men
but would renounce it, if it is to be gained
only by speaking riddles, and being daily
faced down by their own contradictions.
The Flags of the two Republics, A
merica and France, were hitched up on
the steeple of a church in New-London,
on a rejoicing day, for certain news of
diplomatic mamjfafture. A French Flag
on a church—Fortune or Blind Chance,
pr whatever rides, made a very odd jum
ble in this inftanie.
PRICE of STOCKS.
6 per cent«, rB/z
3 ditto, 10fi
Deferred, 1
U. S. Bank,- i z _ per cent. adv.
Pennsylvania do. 8 ditt» ditto.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, Feb. 12
Admiral Jarvis appeared off Fonchally
Madeira, 011 the 17th December, and
hoisted iignals for the Quebec and Zebra
frigates, then laying in the roads to join
him. Sir John had left the convoy the
day before, under an easy fail, in order
to take in fotne of the particulars.
Same day by difpatehes to the Gover-*
nor at Madeira from Porto-Santo, a very
heavy cannonading was heard to the N. E<
F.xtraft of a letter from Kingston, Jamai-
ca, dated Jan. 15.
" Since your departure, we have been
very sickly here—almost as bad as at Phi
ladelphia."
From Albany we have intelligence, that
we believe authentic, that the House of
Aflembly have resolved, if the Senate con
cur therein, that the powers of the com
miffioncrs of the land-office be suspended,
so far as to prevent the granting of pa
tents to any, except those who have com
plied with their engagements.
[Tie following extraßs are taken from the
SUN, of the 2 Jth of November—a pa
per printed in London.J
TOULON, October 18.
Several (kirmifhes have lately taken
place, between the advanced guards of the
two armies; the events of which have
been favourable to the French, who have
taken two or three important posts com
manding Toulon, particularly that of
Cape Brun.
LONDON, November 24..
It appears that on Monday afternoorf,
at four o'clock, Lord Howe fell in with
the French fleet 25 leagues S. W. of
Scilly; the enemy's squadron eonfifts of
6 {hips of the line, 2 frigates, and brigs
and schooners. Near four hours were spent
in forming the line of positron, Lord
Howe was desirous of establishing to pre
vent the escape of the enemy, and at 8
o'clock the Latona frigate, being the hezd
mofl {hip, began- to fire her bow cha
fers, which the enemy returned by firing
their Hern ch:ifers. Lord How had divided
his fleet into two squadrons in order to
render the escape of the enemy impufible ;
at this period Lieutenant Bond*? was
dispatched to announce this intelligence.
SHIP NEWS.
* Capt. Hampton of the brig Isabella &
Ann, left Point Petre, Gtiadaloupt, on
Monday the 23d of Dec. bound for Phi
ladelphia. The foflowißg American vef
iels were then at that port.
Brig Martha and Mary, Stranfbury, of
Baltimore
Three Morris, Wilming
ton,' D.
801 l on-
Dolphin, Bavkei,
Fair American, Angufs, Philad.
And a number of other vefiels belong
ing to ports in America. The next day,-
the 24th, Capt. Hampton was taken by
an English armed schooner belonging to
Antigua, and sent to the port of Bafie
terre, St. ICitts, where he arrived on the
26th, at which place he found 17 fail of
American veflels, some of which had been
there for a long time ; what they were
kept there for, they could not tell. On
producing his book and papers to the gen
tlemen who were agents for the owners
of the privateer, they were fully fatisfi
edthat his veflel and cargo were American
property,who ufedallmeans in their power
not to detain him longer than was necef
faty: But notwithstanding their endea
vours, was kept two days before he had
his examination.
Lift of velTels left at St, Kitts.
No.- of days 1n port*
Brig Mercury, Sill, New-London, 45
Diana, Gardner, New-York, 33
Bethia, Lathrbp, Newburyport, 21
Tritbn, Ridgway, Philadelphia, 16
Kitty, Sullivan, do. 16
— , Jones, Baltimore,. 4
Schr. Atlantic, Marshall, BolYon r 18
Funn, Grant, . do. i<>
Ceres, Robeitfort, New-'tork, 4
Commerce, Borden, Fairfield, 2
Middletown, Savage, Middletown, 2
The House of Representatives of the
United States, were this day engaged in
die business of the Delaware election, &
the report on the Pott-Office law—pro
grefrwas reported in both caies.
[ Minerva.]This day is pulUJhed,
Bv MATHEW CAREY,
No. I 1 8. MA K K 6T'*T K E IT,
(Price a quarter dollar)
A ftiort account of ALGIERS,
Containing.* defenptian ot the* clitnatcof that
country —of the manners and customs of'ihc in.
habitants, and ot ihetr fevcral wars against Spain,
F>anrr, England, Holland, Vejiife, and other
powers of Europe, hom ihe ufirrpation of Bar-
V*»rn(Ta and the invaiion of the Emperor Chjfles
V. 10 the present lime; with a eonctfe view pi
iheongin of the ruolure between ALGIERS
and the UNITED STATES.
J'"- 9-
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. RICE, No. JO, Market-street,
also, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Market-fteeet,
(Price, bound, 6/ss^
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story.
TO If'HtCH IS ADDED,
The Indian Cottage
From the French of M. dt St, Pif.rrf,
44 THE aboveJ>*on;.s have be< n lately pub
h(hed # ainongfl the work* ot a very different
iMtiirr, by M. JV S". Pin re, who rtfided in the
country winch it describes, and wia we'd ar
quam'ted with the principal fails. Its orna
ment* arc the LandTca&e-- the Climate—and
the natural H:(t«#ry ol thr Torrid Zone, wbfer
vtd willi ih« eve of Tiftr, and del'neated with
thr rye of Philoft> phiral knowledge. If is a
Ptttoral, of which thr fable and the machine
ry m«\ he said 10 be eqnally real. To theTe ore
added, the pure vein of Mora! I nflmtl ion, and
the .Sublime Ideas of M. <Ie St. Pierre."
Feb. 1
Insurance Company.
Philadelphia, January 6, *794.
NOTICE is hereby given to the members
of the Insurance Company of North-
America, that the Dire&ors have declared a
dividend (for the 1 ast fix months) of six Per
Cent, oq the amount ot the firft and second
inftalmcnts ; and of one per cent per month
on the sums paid in anticipation of the third
instalment, calculating fiom the firft day oi
the month following that, in which tlmfe pay
ments were made. Tl»e dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders, or their rcpiefentati ves,
at the company's office, No. 119 south Fiont
itreet, at any time after the 13th iuftant.
By 01 der of the Directors,
EBfcNEZEK. HAZARD, Secretary.
Jan. g. w&f im
STATE OF SOUTH-CAROLINA.
In the House of Representative^
Dr.Cfc.MBEK sift, 1793.
WHEREAS the Commiflioners of public
Accounts, h-tve reported, that they can
not oroe.ced to the investigation of the Treasury
Accounts, refpt dting special Indents, without
knowing the out (landing amount thereof in cir
culation Therefore,
RtfoLvtiy That all holder* of fpectal Indents
be dirr&cd, and rf<ju»r<fl, on or before the firß
day of November n xt,to deliver the special In.
denrs in their po(T< (lion to one or other of the
Commifltoners of the Treasury, who are togivr
rcn iots lor the fame, and t« report to tfeeCom
nnllioii«*rfc on p»»blic accounts, on or belore the
tenth Hay of November next, the amount by
therm rcfpcttivcly received, and also to tfcie Le
giflaturc, at their mefting »n November next.
And that all special Indents noi rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firfl day
of Novrmbrr next, shall br, and the fame are
herebv barred.
Refohed, That public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes tn this State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day ol
November nexj. And that the Delegates of tViis
State in the Congress of the United States, be re
queued to eaufe this resolution to be pUbliHicd
in one or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
ir.ade for the expences attending such publica
tion.
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
scuatc for their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN £AN FORD DART, C. H. /?.
In the SENATE,
DEC&MBHII 01(1,1793.
Refolvcd, That this House do concur with the
House of Re piefcntativcs in the forcgo'.ng tefo
lutions.
Ordered, That the resolution* be lent to the
Houlc of Rcprcfentativc*.
By order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk.
ewtNov.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE BY
M.Carey,No. 118,Higb-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Ssrir/os and
Si/rjfcts, which are full of Common
Ssxskf the bejl sense in the world.
THIS little book, is written in a stile altogether
novel, and is adapted to all capacities, at
well as to all claffrs of people, merchant, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
work, acquired, that it has paiTed thro three im
preflions in the caftern Hates, and many houle
holders deem it To ufeful as to purchase a copy
for every adult in theit families. —Price is.
February 4. dtt
NORRI S-C OU R T,
Back of the New Library, between Chelnut
and Walnut.Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the bufir.ef; of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Llkcwife, JAPANNED PL 4.TES,
for doors or window-ftlutters,donl in the nioft
elegant inaimei, and with difj/atch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
Doccinhvr 3",
Just Imported,
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
A id now opening for
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jlreet y
A La>-ge and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which arc the following :
NE W Annual Remitter for 1792
European Magazine for the fir ft fix
months of 1 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester focioty, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Disney's life of Dr. Jortin
Kingville's ancient geography
of Guy Joli
Memty, a collection ofefTays
Varied Pruflia'e works
Calm obierver—by Mackintosh
RulieH's Undent and modern Europe
I-anghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Br iflbn's voyage
Rochon's voyage to Madagascar
Townfend's travels in Spain
Taflo's Jerufaletn delivered
SmeMie's translation of Buffon
Berwick's hiftoty of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiefities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's ditftionary, 2 vols.
Dow's hiftofy of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Piefent state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hud ton's Bay
Preston on mafenry
Lavater 011 phyfio£nomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
KifTes of Secundus
Oiillery of portraits
Vblriey's ruins Of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and immaterialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of Voltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on politicaljuftice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helyetius on man
Kaimes's /ketches of the history of man
Liberal opinion*, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's di&ionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse di&ionary
Reveries of solitude
Smith's theory of moral fentimenfc*
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Wat son's life of Philip lid. &: 11 Id.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wall is on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's travels into Denmark,Ruffia,Poland,&rc.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Grigg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the pra&ice of mid
wifery
Manning's pra&ice of physic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mufe'es
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Quincy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh difpenfatoryi
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise on fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of women
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyce on dtgeftion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on diseases of armies
Haller's physiology
Spalanzane's didertations
London practice of physic
Bell's forgery
CkaptaJ's cbemiftry.
Peale's Museum,
HAS Lately received a number of article? ;
among which are the following : That
r markable bird called the Cut-water, or fcif
>rs-hill; The Avofette, commonly called the
Shoe-make, because ot its bill resembling a
crooked awl—The Long-legs, commonly call
el the Black-bu, having perhaps the longest legs,
in proportion to the fire of the bird, of any of
'he feathered tribe—The Storm-finch, common
1* called mother Cary's chicken—The Sea
fwallow, and var'rous Guilt; befidet a vatiety
ot C*anes, Curlews, Snipes, See.
The frull of a Whale and one of its Vertebres.
An Indian hatchet made of chryftal : It is
curious (hat ihofe uninformed wild people, hav
ing very little knowledge of the aits, and being
ignorant even of the exiftenceof iron and steel,
fliould be able to form such hard fubftanoes in
to fanciful forms as thij, and other Indian ma
nufattures now in the Museum.
A lignified Quince : The fpccimen thews
what a icmatfcablc effect a dry warm (ituation
has 011 fruit. It is now about 8 years since it
was gathered ; and it was a real quince, now be
come wood, at least in appearance.
Prefcntcd bv Mrs. Manfon ol Charleftown,
S. C.—a tool used by the Otaheitans in making
their bark cloth, by pounding the bark on this
instrument ol wood, it produces the ribs which
resemble threads : the perfe&ly straight and
equal lines made in this extreme hard wood, by
men without the ufc of iron,are curious & won
derful.
Alio, a rope made of grass, part of the ligg
ng of a vessel of Kamfkatka.
Presented by Dr. Hall, of Lewis-town, a Squib
in spirits : when this filh wa< found, a number
of (tones were appended to firings or ligaments
that projected from the front of its head,which
occasioned a conje&ure, as it is not furnifhed
with fufficient fins to resist the violence of the
tide and currents, that it faftened with these li
gaments on whatever it found at the bottom ; so
that the stones answered the purpofeof anchors
and the ligaments of a glutinous sticky nature,
that of cables. Some of the stones arc in the
lame phial.
A collc&ion of Minerals and other Foflils
are now displayed in drawers covered with glass
and in a mode which will feeure them from de
rangement. To cach specimen are affixed refe
rences to a book of descriptions. This manage
ment of specimens of the Foflil kingdom, ren
ders this part of the Museum very convenient
and fatisfa&ory,and great attention will be paid
to the fvftematical order of them, and in mak
ing the neccflary essays of each : Also in giving
in a concise manner, the various uses they are
applied to ; thereby rendering them the more
intereding to the public.
A Living Elk, of 2 years old, is just receiv
ed- tiy the account which monf. Buffon gives
of the Elk, it appears that he was not acquaint
ed with this American animal; he particularly
omits all notice of the curious apertures adjoin
ing the eyes of this Elk.
George Bringhurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying-
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requeuing their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
fliorteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phaetons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chaiis, and harness
of every description, in the neatest and newest
fafhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, and capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfa&ion to those whopleafe to employ him.
He has for fate, several carriages almost
finiihed, such as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a light phseton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commission.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6,1794. m&t3m
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the subscriber has been duly ap
pointed Administratrix on the ellate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, decealed, and
has taken upon herfelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law dire&s—and all persons in
terested, are defireJ to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
!Take Notice.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the Estate of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requeued to
exhibit the fame to the Subfcriher, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
persons who stand indebted to said Estate, are
reouefted to fetrle with him immediately; as the
Ast of Limitation of Actions, which is to take
place on the firft day of December next, will
otherwise render it necefTary for him 10 com
mence suits against them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, No?. 13, 1793.
N. B The Printers throughout this Com
monwealth, are requcfted to infertthis in their
refpeftive newspapers, and forward Jheir ac
couuts for the fame, to J. M.
Bank of the United States.
January 6th, 1794.
NOTICE it hereby given, that there will
be paid at the Bank, after the sixteenth
mftant, to the Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars and
fifty cents for «ach (hare, being the dividend
declared for the lad fix months.
By Oider t
JOHN KEAN, Cartrer.
ALL persons having any de
inaiicu againit the rftaie of GhORGE
WIBLE, Ijte ot the city of Philadelphia, baker,
are requeued to bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated ; and those who are indebted, are
dcfirtd to make immediate payment.
HENRY REES, Aminiftrator.
2av\ 3\v.
January 13.
Encyclopedia,
JUST published,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Book feller, at the Stone House, iu Second
ftreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Ot Ans, Sciences, and Miscellaneous
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
Br WHICH
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are d'igejied into the form of
Diftinft Treaties or Syfteins :
THIS volume contains principlesof Levels,
Liberty, Do&rine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
don, Longitude, Luther, Lvdia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetiftn, Malts, His
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical and
Miscellaneous articles, illuilrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number of families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
are returned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the fubferibers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poilible.
The trnth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an imperfect state, some ac
count of the reason of that imperfe&ion should
be given. On the Brh «f September last, the
Publisher had the misfortune of having his
Printing-Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the ftgures, with
which he was printing the tables or lo
garithms, belonging to the pre feat volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not be immediately
obtained, be was under the neceflity of pul»
lifhing the volume without these tables; but
hopes he fhallbc able to publilh thein with the
next volume which is now in conliderable for
wardnefs.
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
exprefling his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the verylibeial pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of reprefen ting to such of the fubfci ibers
as are in arrears, the indif'penfible necessity of
punctuality, both in taking up the volumes as
early as poflible after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the fu!>-
fcribers having got only one, two, three, fee.
volumes, and several volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpaid lays the Publisher under
very serious embarraflment, and deprives him
of the use of many Thousands of Dollars which
at this time would be of very eflential service.
For these reasons the Publisher finds himfelt
under the necessity of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those wh»
take and pay to the time of publication.
December 10.
Stock Brokers Officc,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfeff
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b.gt Icarc to of
tcr his Cervices to his friends and others-, in the
line ol a Stock Broker. Thofc who may please
to favor him with their bufinels, may dcp<-n<i
upon having it tranfa&ed wiih the uimoil fide
lity and dispatch.
Orderi from Philadelphia, Boftom, or jay
other part of the United Stales, will lit OnSly
attended to. LEONARD BI.EECKER
CT Terms of Subfeription for this
Gazette, are Six Dollars per annum—to le
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of perfont
•who reftde at a diflance from the city, to he
twelve months in advance, or payment to le
guaranteed at the place of publication.
Advertisements of ore fquart, or left, in
fertedfour tunes for One Dollar— true, for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twentr
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion. Favors in this line, and Subscrip
tions, will be gratefully received at the Officr
in South Fourth-Jlrret,Jive doors north nf tie
Indian Queen
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Foiutk-Street-
Vol. X.
sawti J.