EVE N I
[No. 49 of Vol. V.]
City Commissioners Office,
January 30, 1794.
IN pursuance of a Rcfo vc of the Common
Council, dated the aoih day of January,
1794, for dividing the Cuv into five Diftrtfts,
by lines drawti F.aft and Weft, wherrof each ol
the City Comhnffioncrs is to take the fupcrin
tendance of one of the Ltd Diftrifis, and to be
accountable for the cleansing, good order and
.regularity of the fame.
The Commissioners have accordingly made
the following arrangctncnt for the prefer.t:
Dijlxicl the \Jt. Nathan Boys, to have the
chaige of that part of the streets, lanes and alfeys
from Ccdar-fticet, to the north fide of Spruce
flrcet.
Dijlfil7 the 2d. Hugh Roberts, from the north
fide ot Sjjiuce-ftrtet to the uorth fide et Walnui
ftre< t.
DiflriH the 3d. Joseph Claypoole, from the
north fide of Walnut to the south fide of Hi»>h
ftreet.
Dijbicl the \th. William Moulder, from the
north iidc oi High, to the noi tli tide ot Mulberry
flreet.
LijlriS the sth. Nicholas Hicks, from the
nonh fide ot Niulbeny,to the north fide of Vine
ttrcec.
Ext' a/7 from the Minutes,
JOHN MEASE, Clerl
N B. The carriage way in Market-street, i s
owder trie charge nt the Commiflioners g-neraHv»
for the pre fern, the foot-ways on the north and
south fides thncof, are conne&ed with the ad
joining Dittrifls r« fpe£l»velv.
NORRIS-COURT,
Back of* the New Library, between Chefiiu
and Walnut Streets.
George Rutter,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the buflnefs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Like-wise, JAPANNED PL A.TES,
for doors or wtmlow- lhutters,donfc in the mod
elegant manner, and with dispatch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 30,
TO BE SOLD,
A large elegant House,
and Lot of Ground,
IN an eligible situation,—also a Country Seat
within 6 miles of the City, with 9 aci-e&of
land, or 42 acres of Jand and meadow, the
House is not exceeded by many in the vicinity
of tlie city, in size or convenience,
For terms apply to the printer,
January 23-
Parry and Mufgrave,
Goldjiniths & Jewellers,
No. 42,
SOUTH SECOND-STREET,
HAVK FOR SALE,
An elegant AJfortment of
SILVER & PLATED WARE,
JEWELLERY & fine CUTLERY,
Which they will dispose of on the most rea
sonable tei int. Devices in hair, Miniatures
sett, and every thing in the gold and filvei
e as ulual.
D-Tftyilvr 24.
Daily's Hotel.
GIFFORD DALLY,
Formerly Keeper of the City Tavern, and
of the Merchant's Cojfce-Hcvfe ef this
City :—
RLSPECTFULLY informs his Friends and
(he Public in general, that he lias THIS
DAY opened a HOTEL in Shippcn-Strcct, be
tween Third and Fourth-Streets, at the House
formerly occupied by Mr. Timmons, which
has lately been greatly improved, and is now
very commodious ; where he has turmthed him
fclr with the bctt of LIQUORS, and will fur
nifh a TABLE for Parties, with the bell provi
fioni the Markets afford, at any hour, on the
ihortcft noticc. From his long experience in
tbisliueof business, he flatters himfelf he (hall
be able to give latisfa&ion to all who may pleafc
to favor him with iheir company.
Philadelphia. Januar\ ">O. 1704.
Excellent CLARET,
In hog(»eads and in cases of 50 bottles each,
also,
A few cases Champaigne Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hof (heads and qiuricr casks,
FQR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South FroQi«:Licet.
Jan. 2, *794. " dif
of tfje liiiifeii
To be Let on Freight or Charter,
or for Sale,
The Ship
MM HERCULES,
Samuel Chauncy, Master,
10 be- ready in a frw days to receive
a Cartoon board,at Hampton Road, in Virginia;
is an American bottom, burthen 500 tons,pierced
for 20 guns, quite new and well fitted.
Apply to
WHARTON & LEWIS.
Philadelphia, Febiuary 4, 1794. dtf
e<
M. Carey,No. 118 ,Hrgb-Jireet,
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Sayings and
Subjects, 'which are full of Common
Sense, the bejlfenfs in the zuorld.
r ~|~ 1 H IS little book is written in a stile altogethcf
X novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
Well as to all claflVs of people, merchant, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputatron has this
work acquired, thzt it hr,s pafled thio three im
preflions in The eaftem states, and many houle
holders deem it so ufeful as to purchafc a copy
for every adult in their families. Price 2s.
February 4.
JAMES LEACH,
I.Y informs his friends and
the public, Thdt from the encouragement
he has received, from several refpe&able Gentle
men, he is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer hii fe*vices to
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidence
in him ; and he assures those who employ him,
that their confidence fnall not he mifplaceri;
but it shall be his constant endeavor, to pay the
ftrifleft attention to their best interest, in all nr
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber,
in State-Street, over Mr. David Tuwnfend, Watch
Maker's PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, ot all kinds, are bought and fold; and
where Commiflion Business of all kinds, will be
tranfa&ed on >eafonaMc terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be constantly exposed iorfale, on
commiflion.
*** Cash p.iid for Salem, Pravidence, and
Porrfmouih BILI.S.
N. B. If an\ Gentleman in Philadelphia, or
New-York, nks any hvftnej's 1o travfacl at fiofton,
in Paper Ncgoctdtions, he tvi/J be happy to be em
ployed on commi/JioTi.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794.
This day is publipoed,
By MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-street,
( Price a quarter dollar)
nj&th—
A short account of ALGIERS,
Containing a defcnption ol I he rlitrwlc of that
country-os ihc manners and cuftotns of the in
habitants, and of theirleveral wars against Spain,
France, England, Hollind, Venice, and oilirr
powers of Europe, from the usurpation of Bar
baroflTa and the invasion of the Emperor Charles
V. to the present time ; with a eoricife view of
the origin of the runture between ALGIERS
and the UNITED STATES.
Jan. «.
War Department.
tmv&r/Vf
January 50th 17 04.
TN FORM ATI ON IS heieby givtn to all the
1 mi! itarv invalids of the United States.that the
Imns 10 which they ire milled for fix monihs
of their annual penp.on, from the fourth day of
September 1793, and which will become due
on tne ,sth day of March ] 7 q 4 , will be paid on
Ihe fald day by the CommilEoners of ihe Loans
wiihin the ftaies refpeflively, under the usual re
gulations.
Applications of executors and administrators
must be accompanud with legal evidence of
their refptftivc offices, and also of thet.me the
invalids died, whose pension they may claim.
By command of the Prrfident
of the United S»afr«.
Secretary of IVar.
(fT The printer! in the refpettive Rates are
requelled topubltfh the above in their newfpa
pcrs lor the space of two months.
January 30.
Stock Brokers Office,
N'o. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine h'tnfelf
entirely 10 ihe PURCHASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, b, gs l cavc to of
fer his fcrvirrs to his friends and other>, in ihc
line of a Stock Broker. Thole who my pleafo
to favor him with their bufinels, may <Wud
upon having ii tranfafled wnh theutrtioft fide
lity and dispatch.
Oidcrs from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other pa it of the United State.', w,|| be ll.iflly
»ttcodcd tu. LEONARD BLEECKER.
N G AD V E
Friday, February 7, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FOR SALE BY
H. KNOX,
d*?m
AND
The following Interejling ADDRESS,
From A Citizen of America, to the Citi-
Zens of Europe, tvas publijbed in Paris, at
the English Press, in oßuber lajl, and supposed
to have been re-printed in London, Jbortly after.
T TNDERSTANDING that a proposal is in
w tended to be made at the ensuing meeting
of the Congreis of the United States of Ameri
ca, " to fend Commiflioners to Europe to con
fer with the Ministers of all the Neutral Pow
ers, for the purpose of negociating prelimina
ries of Peace," I address this letter to you on
that fubje«st, and on the several matters con
nected therewith.
In order to discuss this fubje<Sb through all its
circumstances, it will be necessary to take a re
view of the state of Europe, prior to the French
revolution. It will from thence appear, that
the powers leagued against France are fighting
to attain an obje<st, which, were it poflible to be
attained, would be injurious to themselves.
This is not an uncommon error in the history
of wars and governments, of which the conduct
of the Englilh government in the war against
America is a ilriking instance. She commenc
ed that war for the avowed purpose of subju
gating America; and after wafting upwards of
one hundred millions sterling, and then aban
doning the objed, she discovered, in the course
of three or four years, that the prosperity of
England was increased, instead of being dimi
nifhecl, by the independence of America. In
short, every clrcumftance is pregnant with some
natural efFe&, upon which intentions and opini
ons have no influence ; and the political error
lies in misjudging what the efted will be. En
gland misjudged it in the American war, ai d
the reasons I shall now offer wiil shew, that she
misjudges it in the present war.—ln difculflng
this fubje&, I leave out of the question every
thing refpe&ing forms and systems of govern
ment; for, as all the governments of Europe
differ from each other, there is no reason that
the government of France should not differ
from the reft.
OF THE STATE OF EUROPE PRIOR TO
THE FRENCH REVOLUTION.
The clamours continually railed in all the
countries of Europe were, that the family of
the Bourbons was become too powerful; that
the intrigues of (he court of France endanger
ed the peace of Europe. Austria saw with a
jealous eye the connexion of France with Prus
sia; and Prussia, in her turn, became jealous
of the connexion of France with Austria; En
gland had Wafted millions unfuccefcfully 'in at
tempting to prevent the family compact with
Spain; RufTia disliked the alliance between
France and Turkey : And Turkev"became ap
prelienfive of the inclination of France to
wards an alliance with Russia. Sometimes the
quadruple alliance alarmed some of the pow
ers, and at other times a contrary system a
larmed others, and in all those cases the charee
was always made against the intrigues of the
Bourbons.
Admitting those matters to be true, the on
ly thing that could have quieted the apprehen
fioiM of those powers with refpedt to the inrcr-
{ C T^?T C i,f r ™ ce '. would have been her entire
n-u? RA^'^ Y in Europe ; but this was im
pofiible to be obtained, or if obtained was im
pofiible to be secured, because the genius of
her government was repugnant to all such re
ftriiftions.
It now happens that by entirely changing
the genius of her government, which France
has done for herfelf, this neutrality, which
neither wars could accomplish nor trea
ties secure, arises naturally q{ itfelf, and be
comes the ground upon which the war should
terminate. It is the thing that approaches the
nearell of all others to what ought to be the
political views of all the European power?; and
there is nothing that can so effe&ually fe'ctu e
this neutrality, as that the eenius of the French
government should be different from the reft
of Europe.
But if their objeA is to reflore the Bourbons
and monarchy together, they will unavoidably
restore with it all the evils of which they have
complained; and the firft question of discord
will be, whose ally is that monarchy to be ?
Will England agree to the restoration of the
family compart, against which Ihe has been
fighting and scheming ever since it elided ?
Will Prussia agree to restore the alliance be
tween France and Austria, or will Austria a
gree to restore the former connexion between
France and Pruftia, formed on purpose to op
pose herfelf; or will Spain or Ruflia, or any of
the maritime powers, agree that France and
her ihould be allied to England? In fine, will
any of the powers agree to strengthen the 1
hands of the other against itfelf? Yet all these
cases involve thcmlelves in the original question
of the restoration of the Bourbons; and on
the other hand, all of them difappeai- bv the
neutrality of France.
If their object is not to restore the Bourbons
it mull be the impracticable projeit of a parti
tion of the country. The Bourbon, will th -n
be out of the question, or, more propcrlv
peaking, they v. ill be put in a worse condition
lor as the preservation of the Bourbons nii.de a
part of the firft objed, thee::tirj,„:ion of them '
S E
R T I
[Whole No. 507.j
makes a part of the second. Their pretended
friends will then become interested in their de
fl;ru<stion, because it is favourable to the pur
pose of partition, that none of the ncaiina]
laimants fnould be left in existence.
But however the proje£ of a partition may
at firft blind the eyes of the confederacy, or
however each of them may hope to outwit the
other in the progress or in the end, the em
barraflfments that will arise are insurmounta
ble. But were even the objc& attainable, it
would not be of that general advantage to the
parties, as the neutrality of France, which
costs them nothing; and to obtain which they
would formerly have gone to war.
I OF THE PRESENT STATE OF EUROPE,
AND THE CONFEDERACY.
In the firft place, the confederacy is not of
that kind that forms itfelf originally by concert
and consent. It has been forced together by
chance. An heterogeneous mass, held only by
the accident of the moment, and the instant
that accident ceases to operate, the parties
will retire to their f6rmer rivalfhips.
I will now, independently of the impracti
cability of a partition proje&, trace cut some of
the embarraflments that will arise among the
confederated parties: for it is contrary to the
interest of a majority of them that such a pro
jecft should succeed.
To understand this part of the fubjetft, it i»
neceflary, in the firft place, to cast ail eye over
the map of Europe, and observe the geographi
cal situation of the several parts of the confe
deracy ; for however strongly the passionate
politics of the moment may operate, the poli
tics that arise from geographical situation are
the raoft certain, and will in all cases finally
prevail,
The world has been long amused with whpt
is called the " balance of poiverßut it is not
upon armies only that this balance depends.
Armies have but a small circle of aetion.
Their progress is flow and limited. But whc-n
we take maritime power into the calcu
lation, the scale extends universally. It com
prehends all the interests conne&ed with com
merce.
The two great maritime powers are England
and France. Destroy either of thole, and the
balance of naval power is destroyed. The
whole world of commerce that passes on the
ocean would then lie at the mercy of the other.
And the ports of any nation in Europe
be blocked up.
The geographical situation of those two ma
ritime powers comes next under cojjfideration.
Each of them occupies one entire fide of the
channel, from theftraitsof Dovet and Calais to
the opening into the Atlantic. The commercc
of all the northern nations, from Holland to
Russia, must pass the straits of Dover and Ca
lais, and along the Channel, to arrive at the
Atlantic.
This being the cafe, the fyftematicical politics
of all the nations, northward of the straits of
j Dover and Caiais, can be ascertained from their
geographical situation ; for it is neceflary to the
fafety of their commerce that the two fides of
the channel, either in whole or in part, fliould
not be in pofleflion either of England or of
France. While one nation poflefics the who's
of one fide, and the other nation the other fide,
the northern nations cannot help feeing that in
any situation of things their commerce wili ai
ways find protection on one fide or the other.
It may sometimes be that of England, and fonic
times that of France.
Again, while the Englilh navy continues in
its present condition, it is necelftry that ano
ther navy Ihould exist to controul the universal
lway the former would other wile, have ov,t
the commerce of all nations. France is the on
ly nation in Europe where this balance car. be
placed. The navies of the North, '.vere thsy
fufficiently powerful, could not he ftifficiently
operative. They are blocked up by the ice fix
months in the year. Spain lies too remote ;
besides which, it is only for the fake of her
American mines that {he keeps up a navy.
Applying these cases to tht' projt »S of a par
tition of France, it will appear, that the project
involves with it a destruction or ihe ba-
LANCE OF MARITIME POWER; DCCaufe it is
only by keeping France entire and indi-.-iiibie
that the balance can be kept up. Tin's is a
cafe that at firft fight lies remote and r.lmoft
hidden. But it interefis all the niaritirr.c ..r.d
commercial nations of Europe i;i as gTcar a de
gree as any cafe that has ever come b 're
them—ln lhort, it is with war an i
law. In law, the firft rocritt < f th. _ >JC u<:
come 101 lin the multiplicity of ur£un: t nts*
and in war they become loft in the variet / o£
events. New objcdls arise that take the lead
of all that went before, and every thing
fumes a new afped. This was the cafe in the
last great confederacy, in what is called the fur
ceflion war, and most probably will be the cafe
in the present.
I have now thrown together such thourhts as
occurred to me on the fewraj febjeci; c. imeiSed
with the confederacy France, ard i«.
terwovenwi:h the wtere'l neutral oowei-_
Should a conference of the neutral powers 1.1 c
(lace, thefeobfervations will, at lsail, fe,, eto
R.
ir :s T.it'iTh: rvhole natter v. '!l 'VcnTn
ucrgo a more eittn&ve investigation than it is
i.i my power to fcive; and the ev;l# attending
upon either of the proje<sU, that of feftorai
the Bouiboiw, or of attemptizig a partition of
Jr wi'.\ ) .ve the calm opportunity of Le
ng fully cis cufiVd.
Un tne part of England, it is very extraor
dinary that lhc should have engaged in a former
confederacy, ara long and oxp.nfive war, to
prevmt the fr.ir.iiy compact, and now engage in
another confederacy to pref rve it. And on the
iv.ri of the other powers, it isasinconfillent that
they should -T.|>agt in a partition project, which,
c .iid i; l»c executed, would immediately dc
flroy the :>.'hii;rc of maritime power in Europe,
and %vouiu obahly prcinc a/econd war, to
rcm-.Hy the errors of the fjrft.
A Citizen of lis United Suites oj America.
CONGRESS.
iioufi of Repn-fentatlves.
. January
In c: :;:,uhfcj of iht whole cn Mr. MaJifon s
refoiutlOfUi
Mr. Giics'e speech Concluded.
Nothing can be more degrading and in
fnlt:n£ to the United States, than the
t::r.ipor.;ry i.ifpcr.f.or.s of the prohibitory
n. iL i i'.oju. Lehold a hungry colonial piae
f< t., a", i. ill a prgfeCfc, anticipating liim
£• •:% declaring by proclamation to the ct
t:/::as of the United States, that if they
wtii furaifii ft*tt! with food wllhiua certain
jhveri limited time, he will vowchfue to
cat. it, and behold the citizens of the U
ii -d Slater catching at this fin
-g.ihr ?.:t of co;.dcfccnfion.
Although it has been contended that ,
our cominc :c with Great Britain is Upon ,
a footing not to boconrpiaine:! of, it has
bn cofleedeu, that our naviotrtioii labors
u-ulttC rctfri&ionV. A gentleman
ft >ui M.nT^chufelts, (Mr. GooduueJ. who
i.s vctijaik tbie for the perlpicaity and de
ii i<lends of lii.. ideas fecms to ha*e had
rat bet looiv. corveptiona up«n this lubjeA.
r :': :t g-. -cleman remarked, and it hrts ,
been repeated, that he was in favor" of an
encieaic* of upon all fore :'t vet- I ,
ids, o 'liout dilciiminat.iun. His motive
V. *,! :■ prot of Our own fh'pjiin
t-!3 ofcj tu the difcriininStiq;'., was
the competition of France. ■ The gentle-' i
r- n remarked at the lime time, that in
cafe high _d Uiits fhptild he imposed upon I
h,ii.in ciiajiaciures, Fiance in the pre- <
f .it it ate of things, was dlfqnalificd fiom
f.oplying us. If the gentleman really has
J'"- protection of our (hipping, as well as
t:ie manufactures at" heart, by extending
his reflection) a little further, he would
have fouwl a contolation in this truth.
That the fame cause which at present
difqualiiies France frusr. fupplyiug us with
manufactures, would difqualify "her from
any dangerous competition with o'ir (hip
ping ; but can it he deemed a serious and
varied objection to the propofuions, that
France may ultimately participate in the
advantages ? Is this a proper ground for
refufing to our (hipping and manufactures,
a prtfent, as well as a permanent eiicou
rur -lent : Ihe fame gentleman remaik
ed that the encreai'ed duties would operate
as a tax upon our conftkuents ; if this
fiiould be one effedt, it ought not to a fiord
a t -objection, li tnev be productive, it
encrcafe the ability of the trtafury,
an! is Jtnowji that an encreafe of reve
nue is anticipated. This objedtion does
not lunv.ver corriport with another, which
hrs h?en indefinitely mentioned by several
r ntiemen : but hac be. a reduced to more
1 i nt' ' i> by a gentleman from Marv
! (Mr. ForreltJ. He afierted that
t-> ce-foa: .I j of our reve-rie will be affect
c.lbr the p opolitions on the table.
1 :us is an important confederation, and
merits examination : He declared that no
gentleman was more disposed than hitnfelf
to vote tor that portion of revenue, which
lh«uld be deemed essential to the proper
awd n-ec'Tary eu/rgy of the govertiment;
lie thought th's part of the fubje6t had
been examined ; he admitted, i
the revenue may uhimatelv be lefiened,
but" it wili not be 1011. Inhere is no cer
tainty thrtt it will be lefTened. From his
view of the p.opofitfoiu, and the manner
in which l .. blanks will jrrobahly be tilled,
lie was of opinion, tiiat the revenue would
f r feme tun; be augmented by carrying
the prope(sti<r.is into effect.
j an. Hou.d continue to be the cafe, un
til the incrcafe of dutie) (hould so far di
mmish importations, as to counterbalance ;
the difi rrr.ee 1 ween the cxifting duties, <
art! these pro; ofed to he laid. 1
Ir the o • ti<m of ttie propofitionj r
(houid dimui./h the irri>ortation of luxuries, t
Ol) f\v h? It wov.Vt iocreaft ihe a
b-hiv ot t!ie Lhr.ed Sratvs to pnv revc-
nue 5 and he did not conceive the particu
lar mo le of drawing revenue, was at all
to the United But i.°
lnier.t of revenue he concl
lmpoi
this a
will it ciafe to Operate with th<
f.\me io.'ce, that it now docs ? If gentle
what t
me:' a:ii!_ip:: 4 .cd ill'-'
tlir j)!-: tvC.t, wH.m ihc na-
ti->•» ill iv uiak'j ;i.i c
tioa us violated lights without alarms to
revenue ! !
It ins be
a
a jcntkmaii frumNew Jcifcy,(Mr.Clark)
vvi.o has had great experience in American
allairs, that this was not the language of
America, at the timeofthe non-importa-
tion afibciation6 ! This was rrot the lan
gunge of Auterica, at the time of the de
claration ot Independence. Whence then
this change of American sentiment ? Has
America less ability than {he then had?
is ihe less prepared ora national
flie then was ? This cannot be pretended.
There bras been, it is true, one great
change in her political lituation. Ame
rica has now a funded debt ; (he had no
funded debt at those glorious epochs—
May not this change of sentiment, there
fore, be looked for, in her change of si
tuation iii this refpeft? May it not be
looked' for, in the ininiitative., fympathe-
mization of our fumjs with the
Britiih fwmls ? May it not be looked for,
in the i idiT iminate participations of ci-
tic or
,lnd so!'
gners in tr.e emoluments
of ti»e funds 1 May it not be looked for,
in the wiihes of some, to affimulate the
government t>f the United States, to that
of Great Britain ? Or at lead, in wilhes
for a more intimate connexion !
If these caufrs e.;i(t, it is not difficult
to find the f itirce of t'.ie national debility.
It is not difficult to.fee, that the interelts
of the f-AV, who receive and difbilrie the
nubhc e-vif»':i't!)utioii:» are more
than the intercfts of the great majority
of the society who furnifli the contribu
. lions. 'It is not di ucult to fee that the
government, instead of for a
few millions, is legislating for a few thou
sands, and that the facrednefs of their
rights, is the great obstacle to a great na-
tional c:-:
Mr. G. remarked, that political confi
scations in his opinion, combined in re
commending the pmpofitions at the pre
sent moment. The European war, the
delicate crisis of the war, afforded ill his
mind, fbong inducements to the measure.
These conliderations had been urged with
a view to anoppoiite effect ; but he would
aik, v.hat time would be chosen by a
wife nation comparatively weak, to ad
drets herfelf to an unjust nation, compa
ratively strong, for a restoration of viola
ted rights ? Would it not be, when the
strong nation fnould be so engaged, as to
be inc?.pab!e of exerting her whole undi
vided force in the refiitance ? This is the
cafe with Great Britain at present : For
whatever may be the ultimate event of the
present European contest, the subjuga
tion of Trance, will require at leajl, ano
ther campaign. Here he thought the
tart adage, quoted by some gentleman,
fitted the fubjeft much better than that
part of it to which it had been applied.
No friendlhip in trade. The United
Strin-s only demanded a restoration of vi
olated rights. Great Britain has com
mitted the violation. It was unnecessary
to recapitulate the aggreflions of Great
Biitaiu, upon the national rights of the
United States. He could not help re
peating one circumstance: her subjecting
American veflels to seizure and search.and
exempting those of Sweden and Den
mark. This evidenced a peculiar enmity
levelled at the United States. He men
tioned this circumstance, for another rea
son. It (hould be recollected, that some
unauthorized attempts were made upon
the veflels of Sweden and Denmark, and
that firm and manly answers produced
concefiions. As the only neutral nations
except the United States, they have set
an example, which ought be imitated ; for
notwithstanding the trivial weight of the
United States, in the scale of European
affairs as has been suggested, he believed
that Great Britain would prefer a war
with both those nations, to a war with the
United States.
The recent example of Sweden and
Denmark, proves that the British cabinet
are as fenfihle of the advantages of con
celfion, in some cases, as they were insen
sible in other cases, of the diflionor of com
mitting depredations on the rights of o
thcr nations.
Mr. G. thought another consideration
of the moment, extremely important.—
The injuries and insults of Great Britain,
repeated and continued, have excited such
an impulse in the public mind, that the
whole people would feelingly second any
decisive measures, which the government
might adopt, for rellonng the"honor of
the nation; and if a national trial (hould
be the result of the propositions, it would
from that cause, be commenced under the
moS pleafmg, and promising auspices.—
Several gentlemen opposed to the resolu
tions, have declared their resentment a
gaintt Biitain, and profefled themselves
for energetic measures, to restore the ho
nor of the natio". He wilhed the gen
tlemen would fpecify their proportions,
and biing them before the committee:
he thought it would be a much better evi
dence of their dispositions, than objecting
to the present propositions without offer
ing a fubftitutc. He declared that he
ion for the rettora
was not so much wedded to the present
proportions, as not to be willing to con
i'der any others, which might he better
caloulated to produce the intended effect.
A gentlemen from Virginia (Mr. Lee)
who informed the committee, that he
was not fer.t here to indulge his resent
ment!:, profeffed at the fame time the
most violent resentment againll the cabi
net of Great Britain; while he pronoun
ced an eulogy upon the Britiih people.—
1 f the people would adopt the gentleman's
idea, and separate themselves fom the ca
binet, he might be juftified in his distinc
tion. The proportion 'in that cafe,
would be levelled against the cabinet, and
not against the people : In that event,
both his resentment and attachments
might be indulged. But if the gentle
man would recollect, that the difpofitioa
of the people, towards the United States,
is communicated only thro' the cabinet;
that they fopport tfie cabinet—that the
cabinet is the organ of their will, he will
find that his diltin&ion is wholly without
foundation.
respected,
We have been admoniftred, of the pro
priety of baniihmg feeling, and resorting
to judgment. A nation being corapofed
of the aggregate of individuals, he be
lieved poiTdftd the fame feelings, and he
doubted the truth of the philosophy,
which advised us to banifli an effentisd in
gredient of human nature. Feeling and
judgment, ought to perform their respec
tive offices ; feeling Ihould Simulate our
a 6 ions ; judgment (hould diroft the wi
f.-ft means, for its gratification j patience
is an admirable bead of burthen ; but not
of enterprrfe ; it bears misfortunes well;
but was never calculated to refill oppres
sions. The United States have been in
jured and insulted. Instead therefore of
patience and forbearance—wifdom, cau
tion herfelf, would prescribe boldness, en
terprise, energy, firmnefs. America, has
therefore purfiied this condu£t, and expe
rience has proved, that it is not unwise.
He helieved that Great Britain, calcula
ted upon her own influence, and a want
of concert in our counsels ; now was the
time to convince the world, that injury
from abroad produced concert at home.—
This conduct had therefore characterized
America : he hoped ft would always con
tinue to characterize America.
Legislature of Pennsylvania,
Mr. Evans called the attention of the
Hotife to the fubjeft of the impeachment
against the Comptroller-General, now pen
ding before the Senate. He observed,
that Mr. Nicholfon had given an answer
to the Senate, pleading not guilty to the
charges comprehended in the articles of
impeachment j it consequently now rests
with the House of Representatives to re
ply to the said answer of Mr. Nicholfon.
Mr. Evans therefore moved that the fol
lowing resolution be agreed to—viz.
" Resolved, That the House of Re
presentatives of the Commonwealth of
Pennf\lvania, prosecutors on behalf of
themselves and the people of Pennsylvania,
agamit John Nicholfon, Comptroller-Ge
neral of the Commonwealth, reply to the
answer of the said John Nicholfon, and
aver that the chargc of high misdemeanor
against him the said John Nicholfon is
true, and the said John Nicholfon is guilty
of all and every the matters and things
contained in the articles of impeachment
by them exhibited against him in the man
ner and form as they are therein charged;
and tliii the said Hotife of Representatives
(Delate to le continued.)
Wednesday, February 5,
are ready to prove again ft him at fucii
convenient time and place as the Senate
(hall appoint for that purpose."
The rcfolution was accordingly adopt
ed, and a committee appointed to carry it
to the Senate.
Mr. M'Lene from the committee on
the fubjeft of the several petitions in re
gard to the revival of the laws agninft vice
and immorality, brought in two reports
—viz. One of them 011 the petition of the
SeventhDayßaptiftsjthat the prayer there
of cannot be granted. The other,
" That the ast for prevention of vice
and immorality and of unlawful gamiiig,
and to re (train difoiderly sports and dissi
pation, palled the 25th day of Sept. 17 86,
ought to be continued in force, with a
mendments and alterations.
" Soft. I. To be altered to- suit the
present constitution.
" Sett. 2. Continued.
" Sect. 3. The exception in favor of
stage coaches and waggons to be struck
out.
" Se£t. 4. To remain without any al-
teration.
" Sect. 5. Imprisonment for drunken
ness to be altered from 36 to 24 hours.
" Seel. 6. Judges of common pleas in
stead of justices of the common pleas, and
to include mayor and aldermen of the city.
" S. 7. Complaint to be made within
72 inilead of 48 hours.
" S. 8. The penalty on cock-fighting
to be 230 dollars itiftead of 51. and to
be confined to persons fighting the cocks
or batting, and not those that niay be as.
fembled.
" Bullet playing in any place for mo
ney, or on any public highway without
any bet, two dollars.
" Horse racing for money or other va
luable thing, fine to be 5I. —and the jus
tices of the peace to have ju,rii'di£lion.
" Gaming for money at cards, dice,
billiards, bowle, ihovel board, or any
game of hazard or address, two dollars—
justices of the peace, mayor, aldermen,
&c. to have cognizance.
" S. 9 & io. To remain as they are,
only juitices of the peace, &c. to have
cognizance.
"S. 11 & 12. Toftand, with the al
teration of the !ine from 501. to iol. and
justices of the peace to have cognizance.
"S. 13, 14. & 1 To remain as at
present.
« S. 17 to Ire it. [N. B. Sea. 16
was l-cpealed in 1791. It was against the
theatre, and. is not to be renewed.]
" S. 18 to be 19, and the recommen
dation ior tavern licences to be made to
the Governor.
" S. 19 to be 18. One half of the fines
imposed for a breach of the law 6 to be al
lowed to the prosecutor, the other half to
the poor of the ward or townliup where
theoffenee is committed.
" S. 20 to be 19 and remains as it is.
" S. 21. Struck out.
" Therefove the following resolution is
submitted, viz. That a committee be ap
pointed to bring In a bill agreeably to the
foregoing principles."
Order of the Dav.
The house resumed theconfiderationof
the hill for dividing the state into ditlrids,
for electing representatives in Congress.
A question was taken on a motion
w ''ich had been debated yesterday, for
postponing the prefentconfideration of the
bill, for the purpose of taking up a re
solution for a substitute, which p.opofed
another mode of elettion, for throwing
the whole Hate into one district. The
poftponevnent was negatived, ayes, 2o r
noes 44, so that the original plan of di
viding into twelve diftri&s, recurring, it
was considerably debated, and feveial a
mendments proposed.
The report was finally adopted, and
committed for a bill.
To the Senate and House nf Representa
tives of the United State! in Congrejs
The Memorial and petition of the Dc.
legates from the several Societies,
formed in different parts of the U:iu
ted States, tor promoting the aboliti
on of slavery, in Convention a,Tem
bled at Philadelphia, on the lit It day
el January, 1794.
RtfprSfuUy /he w,
That your memorialists, hnvfnr
been appointed, by various Socie
ties, in different parts of the Union, for
the benevolent purpose of endeavouring
to alleviate or fupprtfs forr.r of the tnlfel
ri.s ui tlietr fellow creatines, deeiu ittheir duty to approach the Congrefa of
the United States with a refjjtftful re
prefenUtion of certain evils,—the unau
thorised a£ls of a few, but injurious to
the intereil and icputatiou of all.
America, dignified by being the firll
in modern times, to afTert and defend
the equal rights of man, futfers her fame
to be tarmfned, and her example to be
weakened, by a cruel commerce, canied
on from some of her ports, for the fup
p!v of foreign nations with African
slaves
To enumerate the horrois incident to
t'iis uihuman traffic, i.t which all the
worll pa£Qons of mankind f rm the ptin
cipa! materials, would be unneteffary when
we offer to prove its exilic nee
is it reqnilire to cot.fume much
of your valuable time in the endeavour
to prove it a national injury.
While it exposes the lives ar.d the mo
ra's of our seamen to peculiar danger, it
renders all complamts of retaliation uu
juii ; for those who deprive others of
their liberty, for the benefit of foreign
countries, cannot rcafonably murmur, if
by other foreign nations, they are depii
ved of their own.
True it is, that the captivity at Al
giers is not without a hope, and that the
fluveiy of the Well-Indies tominates on-
ly with exiflcilce ; but, in proportion as
that to which we are aCcessary is more
ftfvere, the- of defining from it be-
come? more urgent,
Ycsur memorial:lU<obferve, and men
tion with plea fit rr,'that this venal cruelty
is at prcfent confined to a few pons, and
a few ptrfons. Htnce it becomes more
<;»ly to dctlioy a degrading exception
from the »>encial dignity of our com-
merce* anri to rettwre our citizens to U»t
fam<: t of utefcning
freedom to the delations of mtrrcft,
An additional reason for the legilla
tive interference, now requeued, acifes
from the natural confcqucnce of the facts
already fuggelled.
Foreigners, fed need by the example,
anjl believing that they may commit
without Reproach, what American cki
ztns,'Commit with impunity, avail them
fclves oi our porta to fit out llicit vnTeis
for the fame traffic. Thus we become
toe accomplices of their offenccs, and
partake of the guilt without the miicra-
Llc confutation of fharingits profits.
Your memorialids therefore, trutting,
thai; a compliance with theii request,
will not exceed the constitutional pow
ers of Congress, nor injure the irtteretts
ordi-lurb the tranquility of any pa ft of
the Union, refpcftfuUy pray, that a law
may be palled, prohibiting the tiaifiic
earned on by citizen? of the United
Slates for the supply of Haves to foreign
nations, and preventing from,
lifting out vtflVls fv»r the (lave trade in
the ports of the United States.
By order of the Convention,
Joseph Bloom field, Prifuient.
John M'Cree, Sec'ry*
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
Extracts from French Fafirrs, brought by
the French Corvette, the Brutus, from
Ftrtfl, arid the Jhip Fdtoivmack Planter,
Capt. Dcrfzf, from Bourdcaux, arrived
al Norfvik.
PARIS, November r
The Revolutionary Tribunal finifhed
the f-rand process, which attracted the at
tention of France and Europe. Brifiot,
Vergriiaud, Genfonnc, Duprat, Valaze,
Lehardy, Ducos, Bover, Fonjrede, Boi
leau, Gardieu, Mainvelle, Antiboul,Vigie,
and Lecaze, have been convi&ed of having
been in coufpiracy the unity and
imlivifibility of the Republic, against the
liberty and fafety of the French people.
They were condemned to death. This
judgment, which ought to lpread terror,
and make tyrants and slaves tremble, was
executed this day upon La Place de la
Revolution. Valaze stabbed himfelf after
hearing hisfentence ; his body was sent
privately in a cart to the place of exccu
l.on, and bu.ied with the others.
Tius ceremony took place at I o'clock
the fame day, and the grtattft part lliewca
L :ee quarters of an hour.
rmvn..-<
1...'. .; ;
Ail the frc.m London in
t'leii accounts of a general fermentation
in England ; they can pnblilh nothing
but tinder rellriftio: s; tlicir mantifaflories
are flopped, no person pays, nor is paid ;
at the fir.c time the body of idle n.ei ha-
,o rrr*afcS * : ,,|J <-jiill •cr
n"~-
exercised with unheard
does not appease the T
-i'o cairn the minds <
£ o\-: :u-.:ent o'i.rhi
ceis; but they ha
and lofles to tell. G
duke of York beaten—lord He
with the odium of unneceflary c
Pitt, accused of all crimes, denounc
J lift ice and the National Convent
the whole univerfe—Grenvilleouitc a (ham
Ed of having fuffered the dismemberment
of Poland ; of having alienated the Ame-
ricans, and left forever the trade with
France—Dundas, the Engiilh Lcvriltiere,
is tired of signing Lettrcs de Cachet. With
what countenance shall this group of foxes
and tygersj when taken by snare, appe
before the English people: And notwith
standing a demand of 12 millions Iterling
is about to be made for the continuance of
lhfse:cvcr:;!d
lee; d- ■! to a n!'
tole nation to the afi:
ntv ; an.-'i u:i:i:int>i'\v r.v.'ll iiicui
bull flvvs K s tt-..:' 1 ;
nion.'Ht Jf.M.
appears that thefc reflexions have ftrtlck
the mininers them [elves ; now many of
them, dreading the tcmpeft that is riiing,
to gain a shelter.— Richmo
-Grenville a:
tired—
themfelvcs for
difmilfion; but Pitt, in acting the J
and King George in exclaiming 11
What! What / \£c, vSfr. are approaching
with an irrefutable current, to the last
m£nt of tfic people, and to the Revo
"■•"'llotiite.
it'onary (»
Nov en
vefterda-y
Gondier, Nicholas Laroque, Jean Lepage,
Anne, Pierre Costard, and Louis Philippe
Egalite, ci-devant Duke of Orleans. The
1v I j) : iit ci'
enme
author and accomplice of a conspiracy
against the unity and indivisibility of the
Republic, the liberty and security of tlie
French people* Philip d'Orleans was
condemned between two and three o'clock
in the afternoon, and was taken from the
Concergerie, with four others, and placed
in a cart at half.pall four, to be transported
to tl\e place of execution. The populace
as they went along, shouted in plaudits
" ptr 'ljh traitors and tyrants, live the Repub
lic /" At forty minutes past five, the cart
arrived at the Place de Is Revolution, and
the head of Philippe fell the firft.
Edmund Burke is raised to the rank of
an Irifli Peer, under the title of Lord
Connought.
UNITED STATES.
FREDERICKSBURG, Jan. 30.
Copy of a letter from a mercantile house
in Liverpool, to their correspondent in
this town, dated Nov. 17, 1793.
" We advifeyou that the new Ameri
can {hip Nabby, James Kennedy, matter,
owned by Mr. Peter Bryfon, of Wifcaflet,
Maflachufetts, sprung a leak on the 25th
of O&ober, in lat. £5. long. 16. bound to
Rappahannock, for your address, and im
mediately funk. The crcw (all but one
man saved) 20 in number.
" There is no telling what (hips to
fend to your country ; they are giving 12
per cent premium on American (hips from
London to the States.
RICHMOND, Jan. 31
IJjjiday the 24th inft. arrived at Nor
folk, the frigate Le Normande, of 22
twenty-four pounders, belonging to the
Republic of France; on her arrival (he
saluted the Old Fort with a discharge of
15 guns: soon after the artillery company
of .this town turned out with two brafg
pieccs, and marched to Maxwell's point,
where they returned the salute with the
addition of three huzzas, which was an
swered by the frigate : From the point
they marched to the house of Mr. Otter,
Vice-Consul for the French Republic, and
saluted him with a discharge of cannon,
from thence they proceeded to the Eagle
Tavern, and, in company of a few French
Republicans partook of some refrefhment
and after wilhitig every joy on the occasion,
retired to their respective homes.
By a gentleman arrived in town from
Norfolk, we are informed that the Am
buicade was lying in Hampton roads on
Sunday last, in good order, and that the
men were in high fpi; its.
NEW-YORK, Feb. 4.
SUABILITY
Every sovereign state is a corporation
and a mural ptrjin, r.s capable of right am!
wrong as any individual of mankind. There
be ail
ir, if oppofitioft is not d
arouse
;'t nu; ! t
of its mino-
c the
. It
id is re-
•c preparing
mnefty, by an appropos
suit,
hat!
7. The criminals condemned
t five in number, viz. Pierre
of STATES.
is this difference however between them,
that bodies politic have less confc'totifnefs of
£uilt ior violating the moral Jaw than na
tural persons. The rcafon is obvious ; a
Hate is composed of numbers, and where
ver an injury is done by a multitude, the
responsibility is divided. Every man really
deserves aihare of blame ; yet every man
can fhift off a great portion of it upon
others. Hence a puliic body never feels
guilty though every individual will sepa
rately disapprove of the measure which
does the injury. This circumstance strong
ly enforces the ncceflity of some provilion
for compelling jufhee from such public bo
dies. An individual has confcience 9 honor,
reputation to spur him to fulfil his duties ;
a Hate has very little of either ; and in
proportion as the influence of these prin
ciples is less in a body poliiic, than in natu
ral it becomes necefiarv to substi
tute a compulsory process. The law is
lade tor the good; were every man
at all times influenced by pure motives,
law would ceafc to be necefiary. Just so
of public bodies. Were motives of JlriQ
justice always to influence public public
bodies, more efficient provision would ne
ver be necefiary to procure from them
perse& right. But admit the poflibility
that, in a legiflaturc, just claims may be
frittered away, or rejeftcd, and the neces
sity and propriety of compulsory provisi
on for obtaining justice, must also be ad-
mirt-.c 1 ,
Besides, these fame moral persons, or
states, all cla:m and cxercife the right of
compelling individuals to render jullice.
Why (hould not the right be mutual? Is
that man legally free, who can be forced
to pay the last penny he owes to a state ;
while the state may owe him a fortune,
and ltc cannot compel the payment of a
fl;i!!ing r Is it not recognized unequivo
cally as a general principle of common
law, that right and remedy zre reciprocal—
and that wherever there exists a right, the
law famifhes a remedy ;* But is not the
d(i£trine//'a/ suits cannot be fujlained againjl
Jlates, a direst and flagrant violation of this
excellent maxim of common law and com
mutative justice ! And is not a discretion
ary power to do justice or not at pleasure,
more particularly dangerous in large popu
lar bodies, where responsibility is divided
and reduced to nothing ! Let calm reason,
conscience and the religion of christians
determine these important questions.
* See the doSrlne in Salield's reports.
The ■writer not having t/ie looks before him,
cannot refer to the Cafe.
PHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 7.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in
New-England to his friend in this city.
" Some time has elapsed since 1 had
the pleasure of hearing from you ; I am
much pieafed with the memorial of the
Friends' Society and the address of the
worthy Clergy of your City to the Legis
lature of your State, on the fubjeft of re
vising the la-.vs for the fupreffion of vice
and immorality, and for enforcing a due
obfervancc of the Lord's Day. It was
certainly exhibiting a very feaionfable tes
timony against the prevailing irreligious
spirit of the times—" a Land of Levity"
fays an excellent writer, "is a Land of
Gu'.lt." What, alaj then, is a Land a
bounding in Profanenefs and Impiety—
and at the very instant when the Supreme
Ruler of the World is withdrawing his
chastening rod, contending for Theatrical
and other amusements, which are evident
ly calculated to please a corrupt and vi
tiated mind, and are emphatically charac
teristic of those who are " Lovers of
Pleasure, more than Lovers of God."—
I mod heartily wish success to the lauda
ble efforts of those who nobly appear to
fvem the torrent of fafhionable vices, more
dangerous to morals, because less fufpeft
ed than flagrant crimes, tho' history and
observation concur to evince that the lat
ter are frequently the offspring of the
former,
" Before you receive this, I expect
that an important and united exertion
will be made by petitioning Congress to
effect afi Abolition of that dTgrace to our
country —the African Slave Trade. If
it were not for those Jlrangc extremes
which often meet in the fame character, I
flionld suppose that the reccwt informa
tion refpefting the Piratical Coifairs of
Algiers, would, entirely fupercede the ne
cessity of any reasoning to demonstrate
the worse than abominable iniquity of
enslaving our fcHbw-ir.cn. I hope that
the Legi(l aturc of the Union will not be
b&ckwaid in explicitly enabling such laws
as will effe&ually check the system of ra
pine, fraud, robbery, devaluation and mur
der which constitute the trade Do, my
dear fir, acquaint me of appeaianccs and
prolpects—l am certain no pains will be
declined to elFe& the object: I eonfider
it as a grand appeal in winch all theftrength
of our Societies will be conjointly appli
ed.—O ! that the cause of Justice and
Humanity may prevail and triumph !"
1 lie Algerine bufiuefs was again under
confederation in the House of Rcprefenta
tives this day—but no decision took place*
The Cafe which has been depending for
several days before the Supreme Court of
the United States, in which the State of
Georgia was petitioner in Chancery, and
and others Respondents, was this
day, decided by a Special Jury in favor
of the Respondents.
FROM THE AMERICAN STAR.
A Fii'uch paper, wubuilu-u in lh:scu>
PARIS,
Nov. 5. The female citizen Mirabeau,
mother of the two famous brothers of the
fame name, was arretted the day before
yesterday, and committed to pvifon.
The female citizen Olympia Gourgea,
lias been guillotined, notwithstanding her
pleading pregnancy.
The bloody fpe&acle of the guillotine
seems to enrage the people. Oil the fame
day when Valaze (tabbed himfelf, a nation
al light-horseman, condemned to die, flung
himfelf over the balluftrades of the revo
lutionary tribunal, and would infallibly
have stabbed the judge, had he not been
disarmed.
The mulattoe Raymond, chief agent
of Biiflot in the deflrudtion of the whites
of St. Domingo, has been guillotined in
Paris, at the Place de la Revolution.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-
r -YORK, Feb. 6.
Letters by the (hip Liberty, from Ma
deira, inform us of the arrival, at that
island, of a very large Britifli fleet, com
manded by Sir John Jervis, I'. B. con fill
ing of 8 line of battle ships, a number of
frigates, transports, and ftorcihips ; on
board of which were embarked 13,000
land forces, to be employed undtr Gen.
Sir Charles Grey,K. B. against the French
islands in the Weft Indies. The whole
fleet failed from Madeira, on the £2d of
Dec. their destination supposed la be Bar
badoes, which is the appointed rendez
vous.
r l his fqu&dron and convoy had avoided
falling in with one from Brefl, consisting
of eight French line of battle-fliips, and 6
frigates, sent from that port for the pur
pose of intercepting the British, and l'ub
vertiag the important obje& of an arma
ment much superior to any that has acted
in the Well India seas during the present
war.— The abovcmentioned French fleet
had fallen in with the British of 22 fail of
the line, under Lord Howe, 90 leagues
from the land : a rapid chace immediately
commenced—One 40 gun frigate and 3
French vefTels of inferior size had been
already captured by the British.
Lord Rawdon, with 13,000 British
troops had failed for France, to join the
Royalists in she department of La Vendee,
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED.
Ship Fame, Klriiidge, Ftrlol, 52 davs
Suffcx, Aikir.s. H«:vre dc Gr* c
Morning b ai. C mphcM, Oft. ml. qo
Brig Dolphin, Nukclls, Havanna 30
Mana, Weeks, Boftim £5
Sch'r Friend ship, Glover, Martinique 30
Sioop Hannah, Culver, Ha\rede Grace 72
Lively, Moore, Madeira 7 1
Sally, ll'Pwn, Porto Riro ofj
A fl.'op from New York, is arrived at Mar
cus Hook.
The ftup Fam»", Capt. EWtidce, failed f»om
Ferrro', on ihe 2*(t Nov. to rompan\ wmh f!«e
ship Allan ic ot Bainmorr r Capt. Will'nn, who
airived at Furol »iic 13 h Oftobrr.
'I he lh-p Dilig-nee, Capt. o'N<il,from New-
York, arrived there the 27th, after a of
51 fiavi.
The fnnw Harriet, Cap'. Holland, amvrd
the 4«h Nov. in yjg days fr«:n Ph:t»o« Iphi*.
I be l>ri£ liKUitti y of S.ilc it, a: n, cr. the U
Oil. Imm liaiuni' if, »a> 10 h.-il.ill m
1 l»e ilt Mov. • o !jil iw a day <,1 i Wt , ahvi, {.»r
ib«- W li--' n lil ►.
Ct;>f. E'dn<we. on 5* h nf fn'nnry, in
lat. 2$ i 2. J.>!>>:. 6J, !p<i' K t. si f :din ICr B«t
---fe>, L'uUl, f kui NVw-Pmx ;derue, hftrtnt
to N;vi'.Yo''k. i 'Ji /,5 davs. Thi* ve.fl'l h::«l
been d-ivci fV ni t!;c o\;ft r!i»ec 'inies, I
»VIS Jill v .Q.. 1 }): (H iin.m, a oi'wli
hey 1 c.o'vi a 1 r«t;vr. E,|di 1Report 011 a projedl of an a<Sl of navigation of
the French Republic, presented to the. Na
tion.il onvention the 3d of ,u y, 1793. In
the name of the committees of Marine, of
Commerce and of Public Safety, by Peter
Marec, deputy from Finit'ere, printed by
order of the National Convention.
Citizen Legislators,
YOU have referred to your diplomatic com
mirtee6 of marine and commerce united, the
proportion made in your body, the 20th of .» ay
last, to prelent t«> you without delay a project
of an a£k of navigation.
This object so worthy ot' the meditation of a
republican legislator, has not been over ooked
by your committee of public fjfety In the re
port they made to you on the 29th of May, #n
the ftateofthe French Republic, they traccd to
you in general the invaluable advantages which
would result to her from a measure, which hav
ing been adopted by England a century and a
half ago, hat. been tr.e moll fruitful source
the profperh'y of that rival power. But in a
queflion of thi-. nature, antral coufiderations
and observations hallily made, are inlufficient
to impress conviction on every mind.
Your marine committe has been employed
in collediiig such ideas and elements as might
completely enlighten you on the importance of
a navigation n<St, and finally determine you to
establish at the fide of the political conflitution
ot the empire, tins firft basis of her commercial
conflitution. They could not unite, according
to your views, with the diplomatic committee,
which has not beer, renewed fmce the fupprefli
on of the committee of general defence; but
they have concerted with those of commerce
and public f.ifety, anil it is in the name of these
three commitrees that I c«me to present to you
the result of their deliberations.
1 he principal end of the navigation a6fc which
we propose, is to destroy the inrerpolition of all
indirect navigation, in the maritime transporta
tion of ohi" articles of exchange with foreign
nations, and in fine to put a flop to that inter*
mediate carrying trade, so prejudicial to our
commerce and marine, wiiich hitherto has ren
dered us benevolent tributaries of all the mari
time powers of Europe. This adl hat also for
its objedl, to reserve to the national veflcls t!*e
exclusive privilege of trai sporting the fame ar
ticles «t exchange from one port of the Repub
lie to another.
1 his double prohibition is doubtless contrary
to the principles of an indefinite commercial
freedom : but such freedom perhaps would not
agree with the fyflem of an universal republic;
and it is conceived that the republic of the hu
man race will be still more difficult so realise
than that of Plato. It is then our wisdom not
to a low ourselves 10 be dazzled by the brilliant
imaginations ot political writers, and wh« warp
the light of reason and experience in their
specious arguments and pompous theory. It
is from the example of the great nations who
furronnd us, from that nation especially, who
iirft knew how to apply to her navigation pro
hibitory regulations; it is from that sourCe we
ought to rules for our condu&, if we
have at heart the true prosperity of our country.
Fiauce taken in a commercial point of view
is the richefl cntefpoc of the universe; she is
alio the market which offers the moll contain
ers and v?;nt for the industry o r other nations.
Whence does it happen that, with so many re
foinces and wants, with such abundance 01 ter
ritorial commodities productions and merchan
diles withthehabit ofconfaming such great quan
titiesof the commodities produ&ions&merchan
diles of foreigners, her navigation has hitherto
been so languishing, her commercial marine so
pitiful, so altogether destitute of the advanta
ges which are its inherent right ? Whence does
it happen that the flag of her mod formidable
enemies has almost excluiively figured in her
commercial relations ? Becaufc she was deflitute
of a navigation aCt; becaufc a falfe, timid, and
frivolous policy knew not how to produce, or
did not dare to borrow, from a great nation
prou d of its wealth and of its credit, this valu
able iytlem, which has contributed more to the
power of that nation, than all the victories of
iu admirals.
in a word it is time that the French nation
should know all her advantages, and how to
profit of them. It is time for her to repair all
the injury she has futtained, in this refped,
through the ignorance or criminal indifference
of an opprelLve government, more careful »f
prefervmg at any price, itj defpwric authority,
more occupied in diplomatic intrigues or fifcal
operations, more tenacious in maintaining the,
falfe fplcndor of a throne at the expense of the
true iiitercfts of the people, than attentive to
render produtf ive by every means in its power,
their agriculture, their commerce, and their
industry.
Doubtless there never was a more favourable
occalion for procuring to our country the bene
fit of a navigation a <51. Numerous republican
armies, familiarized with vidory, being now
fighting for her independence and her liberty,
against the very powers who are the mofl in
terefled in preventing us from enjoying such an
atft. Before the war, it might have been fuffi
cient for us to have made such an a<st merely
with regard to England; such was the effe«sl on
Holland, when Oliver Cromwe l, in 1651, had
a decree palled by the British parliament.
At that epoch, according to the inquiries of
one of our countrymen, the befl informed at the
present day, in the knowledge of our true com
mercial & political intercOs (Citizen Ducher*)
the maritime commerce of the Enjrlifh did not
cowfifl of more tLan 96,000 tons of transports,
in 179°» 't rose to more than 800,000 tons.
Again at that epoch, according to the inter
esting report prelented to the conflituent afleni-
* If the convention pass the present proje<ft
of a navigation a<5V into a decree, the country
will be under obligations to Citizen Ducher,
who for upwards of two ) ears part, has endea~
▼cured to obtain the adoption of this plan with
indefatigable perseverance, as well in commit
tees of the National Aflembly, as by the pub
lication of his writings. This is an a& of justice
which it affords mc p!eafure publicly to render
to that excellent citizen.
bly, on this fubje*Sl, by Citizen Delatfre. "One
half of the navigation of England was carried
on by foreigners. England has imperceptibly
re-taken her rights; towards the year of 1700,
foreigners poflefled no more than the fifth part
of this navigation ; in 1715, only a little more
than the ninth ; in 1750, a little more than a
twelfth; and in 1791, they poflefled only the
fourteenth part of it.'*
Our navigation a year ago, was in regard to
foreign nations, still more unfavourable than
the English navigation of 1651. Permit me
here, to give in a concise manner the ftrikiug
calculations which were laid before you on this
fubje&, in the month of December lafl, by the
ex-mini fie r of the home department, in the ta
ble containing the amount of the exterior com
merce of the Republic of France.
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. RICE, No. 50, Market-street,
alio, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Market-iteeet,
( Price y bound, 6/6 J )
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story.
TO irßlCfi IS JDDEDf
The Indian Cottage.
From the French of M. de St. Pierrs.
11 THE above Stortrs have been lately pub
lifhcJ, amongst the works ot' a very different
nature, by M, de St. Pierre, who resided in the
country which it describes, and was well ac
quainted with the piincipal tads. Its orna
ments are the Landscape— the Climate—and
the natural history of the Torrid Zone, obler
ved wiih ihreyeof Taftr, and delineated with
rhc eye of Phiiofophical knowledge. It is a
Pjftoral, ot which the fable and the machine
ry may be fa id to be equally real. To these are
added, the puie vein ol Moral Inftru&ion, and
the Sublime Ideas of M. de St. Pierre."
F< b. j
Insurance Company.
Philadelphia, January 6, 1794.
NOTICE is hereby given to the members
of the Insurance Company of North-
America, that the Dtre£lors have declared a
dividend (for the last fix mouths) of six per
Cent, on the amount of the firft and lecond
instalments ; and of one per cent per month
on the funis paid in anticipation of the third
instalment, calculating from the firft day of
the month following that, in which those pay
ments were made. The dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders, or their representatives,
at the company's office, No. 119 south Front
ftrect, at any time after the 13th instant.
By order of the Directors.
EBfcNEZER HAZARD, Secretary.
J* rt . 9. w&f.ira.
State of south-carolina.
In the House of Repre/entatrucsy
December 21ft, 1793.
WHEREAS the Commiflioneis of public
Accounts, hiVe reported, that they can
not proceed to the investigation of the Treasury
Accounts, reipe&ing ipecial Indents, without
knowing the outstanding amount thereof in cir
culation Therefore,
Resolved, That all Holders of fpeeial Indents
he directed, and required, on or before the firft
day of November next, to deliver the fpccial In
dents in their pofleflion to one or other of the
Commiflioners of the Treasury, who arc to give
receipts for the fame; and to report to theCom
miflionrrs on public accounts, on or before the
tenth day of November next, the amount by
theiw refpc&ively received, and also to the Le
gifluure, at their meeting in November next.
Arid that all fpeeial Indents not rendered into
the Treasury as above, on or before the firft day
of November next, lhall be, and the fame are
hereby barred.
Rejo/vcdy That public notice of this resolution
be given in the several Gazettes in this State,
once every three weeks, until the firft day of
November next. And that the Delegates of this
State in the Congress of the United States, be re
queued to cause this resolution to be publifVied
in ©ne or more papers in the cities of Philadel
phia and New-York, and that provision will be
made for tht expcnces attending such publica-
Ordered, That the resolution be sent to the
Senate tor their concurrence.
By order of the House,
JOHN SANFORD DART, C.H.R.
In the SENATE,
Dhcsmblr 21 ft,1793.
Resolved, That this House do ebneur with the
Houle ol Representatives in the foregoing refo
lut'.ons.
Ordered. That the refolutiont be sent to the
House ot Representatives.
By order of the Senate,
FELIX WARLEY, Clerk,
ewtNov.
Treasury Department,
NOTICE is hereby given, that proposals will
be received at the Office of the Secretary
of the Treasury, until the 6 h of February next
inclnfive, for Uie supply of all Rations which
may be required, during ihe prefrnt year, at the
several placcs ot hereafter mention
ed, lor the Recruiting Service, viz.
At New-lit unfwick, in Ncw-Jerfcy;
Ai Philadelphia, }
At Lancaster, > in Pennsylvania.
At Reading, )
The rations to be furnifhed arc to consist of the
follow ing ariicles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or £ of a pound of pork,
Halt a jill of rum, brandy or whillty,
One quart of fait }
Two quarts of vinegars
Two pounds of fuap > P cr 100 " l,ons -
One pound of candlei)
MONEY borrowed or loaned, accounts fia
ted or collected, employers suited with
domestics, house rooms, boarding and lodging
Krnted, let or procured—foldiei's, maj-iner's,
or militia men's pay, lands and claims on the
public ; shares in the banks, in (he canals, and
the turnpike road ; certificates granted by the
public, ?nd the old and late paper monies ;
notes of hand, bills, bonds a«d morgages, with
or without drpofus—Bought, fold, or nego
ciated at No. 8, in south Sixth-ftrcet, below
Market-ftr»ct by FRANCIS WHITE,
Whotranfatts business in the public offices for
country people and others, by virtue of a cow
er of attorney, or by personal application.
December 11
Just Imported,
From London, Dublin and Glasgow,
And now opening for 'ale, by
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jlreet,
A Large and Valuable
COLLECTION OF BOOKS,
Among which are the following
NEW Annual Regiiterfor 1792
European Magazine for the firft fix
months of 1793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Empire
Memoirs of the Manchester focioty, 3 vols.
Priestly on matter and spirit
on christianity
Difoey's lite of Dr. Jortin
KingviJle's ancient geography
D'Anoirs of Guy Joli
Memty, a collection of eflays
Varieof Pruflia's works
Calm observer—by Mackintosh
RuHell's ancient and modern Europe
J-anghorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and Briflon's voyage
Rochon'g voyage to Madagascar
Town/end's travels in Spain
TaflVs Jerusalem delivered
Smellie's translation of Buflfon
Berwick's history of quadrupeds
Buffon abridged
History of birds
Philips's history of inland navigation
Hooper's rational recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
Curiosities of literature, 3 vols.
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheridan's di<slionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindoftan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
Imlay's description of Kentucky
Prelent state of Nova-Scotia
Present state of Hudfoo's Bay
Preston on masonry
Lavater on abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
KifTes of Secundus
Gallery of portraits
Volney's ruins of empires
Vaillaint's travels, with superb engravings
Downman's infancy
Adair's history of American Indians
Benington on materialism and imma'erialifm
Berchold's advice to patriotic travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life of V oltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitus
Godwin on political justice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's sketches of the history of maa
Liberal opinion?, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener's dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of fofitude
Smith's theory of moral sentiment*
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip lid. &: lIId.
Wonders of nature and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's wonders of the little world, called
man
Wallis on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
'ox's travels into Denma? k,Ruflla,Poland,&c.
lox's travels into Switzerland
tabant's history of the French revolution
-ife of Lord Chatham
Pallet's northern antiquities
Aotherby's medical dictionary
srigg's advice to females
lamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's practice of physic
tlegbarn's diseases of Minorca
nnes on the mufc'es
>ott's works
''ourcroy's chemistry
Lrmftrong on dTeafes of children
hiincy's d fpenfeiory
Edinburgh dispensatory
-ewis's dispensatory
lyan on the afthuia
lobertfon'streatiie on fevers
Lee's botany,
-eake on the viscera
L.eake on diseases of women
chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medira
Fordyce on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on difea'es of armies
Waller's physiology
Spalanzane's diflertations
London practice of physic
Bell's surgery
Cbaptal's chemistry.
uwt6F.
ALL persons having any de
mands agamtl the elUte of GEORGE
WIbLE, late ot the city of Philadelphia, baker,
are rtqu: fted to bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated ; and tliofc who are indebted, are
defircd to make immediate payment.
HENRY REES, Aminiftrator.
2a*3w.
January 13.
Robert Campbell,
No. 54, South Second-jlrcei,
Seconddoor b -low the corner ot'Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and Ireland,
A large and general AJfortment of
New Books and Stationary,
Which will be dilpofed ot'on the lowest terms.
23. mwfef tf
Encyclopedia, Vol. X.
JU ST P ÜBLIS HE D,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookseller, at the Stone House, in Second-
Itreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia; or Dictionary
Of Arts, Sciences, and Mifcellaneoue
Literature, on a Plan entirely new ;
Br WHICH
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are d'tgejled into the form of
Diliinft Treaties or Svftems
THIS volume contains principles of Levels,
Liberty, Dottrine of Light, Lightning,
Lock*, Logarithms, Logic, History of Lon
don, Longitude. Luther, Lvdia*, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Mag'netifm, Malts, Hi I*
tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Matylano.
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha
nics, with a great variety of Biographical am
Miscellaneous articles, illuitrated with Twek
ty two Copperplate
As a oumber of families are still in the
country, and >t is not generally known who
areretu'.ned. T. Dobfon, solicits the favor
of the fubferibers to call or fend for their vo
lumes, that they may be fuppiied as early as
poiTible.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia i*
now prelented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an impcrfelt state, I'ome ac
count of the reason of that imperfe&ion (houhf
be ■ iven. On the Brh <-f September last, the
Publilher had the misfoitune of having hit
Printing Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials deitroyed,
and among other articles, the figures, with
which he whs printing the tables or lo
garithms, belonging to the present volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a Pupply of the ft could not lie immediately
obtained, he was under the neceflity of pub
lifhing the volume without the'e tables; but
hopes he (hall be able to pnbli/h them with the
next volume which is now in considerable for*
wardnefs.
The Publiflier embraces this opoartunity of
expreflmg his grareful acknowledgments ro
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored j at the fume time he takes the li
berty of representing to such of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indil'penfible neceffitv of
punctuality, both in raking; up rhe volumes as
early as polfib'e after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many of the fub
feribers having got only one, two, three, &rc.
volumes, and several volumes remain unpaid;
Thus the work hangs in all its different stages
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals,' yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpaid lays the Publisher under
very fetious embarrafTment, and deprives him
of the use of many Thoufends of Dollars which
at this time would be of very eflential service.
For these reasons rhe Publi llier finds himfelf
under the neccfl»ty of recurring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will he delivered but only to those who
tako and oay to the time of publication.
Dec*-iY>brr 10
TO BE SOLD,
THE Fount of LONG PRIMER
on which the Gazette of the United
States w?.s lately printed. The Fount
w ill weigh about Three Hundred Pounds.
The price is Twenty Cents per pound.
Enquire of the Editor.
Cjr* Terms of Sidfcription for this
Ga*-e{te y are Six D«>lla v s per annum—to be
paid half-yearly. Svlfcriptions of persons
who refidc at a dijlance from the city, to he
twelve fiionths in ndvarrr, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of public at ten.
Advertifemrnts cf onefquare, or Ifs, in
fer tedfour times fir One Dollar—vice,for
Fifty Cents—ar.dcontinuations at Twenty
Cents each—ih?f: cf greater length in pro
pertion. Favors in this line, and Sidfcrip
tionsj tuill be gratefully received at the
in South Fourth-flrret, Jive doors north of tie
Incfian Queen
PHILADELPHIA:
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
eawti J.