oaptfe d tlje IJfatifei) H> fates
E
VENING ADVERTISER.
[No. 58 of Vol. V.]
Jnthe $:if>rfin • Court of the United Slates.
*Tbe State of Georgia,
•w. /
Br ails ford, Powell f
and Hopton. J
HTHIS cause came before the Court
'under the following leading circum-
stances
On the 20th of May 1782, the state
«f Georgia pafied an a&, in which, a
iviong other things, (he confifcated the
ellates, and debts of persons, whose
property had been confifcated in other
dates, in like manner and form of for
feiture, as they were fubje&ed to in the
Hates refpeftively, of which such persons
were delinquent citizens : And, with
refpeft to British merchants, or others
residing in Great-Britain, it was declar
ed, "that all debts dues and tjciriands due
or owing to them be and they are hereby
sequestered, & the commifiioners appoint
ed by this a&, or a majority of them are
thereby empowered to recover receive and
deposit the fame in the Tieafury of.tfyis
state, in the fame manner, and under
"the fameregulations, as debts conftfeated,
there to remain to the use of this Hate,
until Other wife appropriated by this or
any future houle of Assembly."
Brailsford was a Britifti merchant, re
fidiiig in Great Britain ; and Puivtlland
Hopton, wae delinquent citizcns of
South Carolina, vvliofe tftatts had been
confifcated in pursuance of an ast of that
state, pafied on the 25th of February
1782, in the following teims; "that
all the real eftatc6 either in pofllffion, in
re»erfion,or remainderof thefevcral per
sons &<.. fhallbe veiled in 5 commissioners,
«nd all the personal estate» (debts except
ed) of fucli persons &c. are hereby veil
ed in the said commissioners &c."
In the year 1774 Kelfall and Spald
ing, citizens and merchants of the state
of Georgia, had executed a bond for a
tonfideiable sum to Brailsford, Powell,
and Hopton; upon which, after the war, a
suit was instituted by the obligees againU
Spalding, tiie fuiviving partner, in the
Circuit Court, for the diftrift of Geor
gia, returnable to October term 1791.
The defendant pleaded the above men
tioned confifcation laws in bar of the
present attion ; the Plaintiffs demurred
to the plea, and the defendant joined in
a demurrer : but at April term 1792.
Judgment was given for the former by
Judges Iredell and Pendleton. An ap
plication made by the state of Georgia,
for admission to defend her tights in the
suit iullituted by Bralsfmd, Powell, and
Hopton, being rejected, abill was filed on
her behalf,on the equity lideoftheSiipieme
Court of tile United Stales, again It all the
parties to the suit below, representing
her claim to the debt in question under
the cnnfifcaiion laws of Georgia and S.
Carolina ; and praying that an injunc
tion might issue to prevent an execution
Wing taken mit on the judgement ob
tained by Brailsford, Powell, and Hop
ton, until the merits of that claim were
lieatd and decided. After two argu
ments by Mr. Ingerfoll and Mr. Dal.
las for the State, and Mr. Randolph
for the defendants, the injunction
was granted ; and the present issue
was joined, under the recommenda
tion of the Court, to try the general
question, whether the debt due from
Spalding, and the right of action to te-
CBver it, now belonged to the slate of
Georgia, or to the original creditors?
On the 4th of Feb. 1794, a special
jury was qualified to try thecaufe, which
during four days, was argued by Mr.ln
gerfoll and Mr. Dallas for the state of
Georgia, and by Mr. Bradford, Mr.
Tilghman, and Mr. Lewis, for the de
fendants. As we underhand tliac a full
report of the record and the pleadings,
is preparing for the press, we (hall only
add on this occasion, the charge of the
Couit, which was delivered Chief
juttice on the 7th of Febiuary in the fol
lowing terms.
Tuesday, February 18, 1794.
" Gentlemen of the Jury,
This Caufc has been regarded, as of
great importance ; and doubt less it is
so. It has accordir»gly been treated by
the Counsel with great learning, dili
gence, and ability ; and on your part,
it has been heard with particular atten
tion. It is, therefore, unnecefTary for
me to follow the invefWgation over the
extensive field, into which it has been
carried : You are now, if ever you can
be, completely possessed of the merits of
the cause.
The fa&» compiehended in the cafe,
are agreed : the only point that te
rrains, is to fettle what is the law of the
Und arising from those ; and on
that point, it is proper, that the opinion
of the Court ftiould be given. It is for
tunateon the present, as it must be on eve
ry occasion, to si id the opinion of <lie
Court unanimous : We entertain no
diversity of femrrnent ; and we have ex
perienced no difficulty in uniting in the
charge, which it is my pioviuee to deli-
We are then, Gentlemen, of opinion,
that the dr.bls due to Hopton and Pow
el, (who were citizens of S. C.) vrere
not confifcated by the flatute of S. Car
olina : the fame being therein expressly
excepted : That those debts weie not
confitca-ted by the flatute of Georgia,
for that statute enacts, with refpeft to
P. and H. precisely the like and no other
degree and extent of confifcation and
forfeiture with that of South Carolina,
Wherefore it cannot now be necessary
to decide, howfar one state may of right
legislate relative to the personal rights
of citizens of another state, jiot residing
within their jurifdiftion.
We are, also, of opinion, that the
debts due to Brailsford a Btitifh fubjeft
residing in G. Britain, were by the statute
of Georgia fubjefted, not to confifcation,
but only to sequestration ; and, therefore
that his right to recover them, revived
at the peace, both by the law of nations
and the treaty of peace.
The question of forfeiture in the cafe
of joint obligees, being at present im
material, need not now be decided.
It may not to be amils here, Gentle
men, to remind you of the good old
rule, that on qucllions of fact, it is the
province of the Jury, on questions of
law, it is the province of the Court, to
decide. But it mufl be observed that by
the fame law, which tecognizes this rea
sonable distribution of jurifdiftion,
you have nevrrthelefa a light to take
upon yourselves to judge of both,
and to determine the law as well as the
fact in controversy. On this, and on
eveiy other occalion, however, we have
no doubt, you will pay that refpeft,
which is due to the opinion of the Court:
For, as on the one hand, it is presumed,
that Juries are the bed judges of facts ;
it is, on the other hand, prefumeable,
that the Coutt are the b ft judges of
law. But still bo h objects are lawfully,
within your power of decision.
Some stress lias Deep laid on a conG
detation of the diffeient situations of the
parties to the Cause i The state of
Georgia, files three private petfons.
But what is it to justice, how many, or
how few ; how high, or how low ; how
rich, or how poor ; the contending
parties may chance to be ? Justice is in
discriminately due to all, without regard
to numbers, wealth or rank. Because
to the state of Georgia, composed of
many thousands of people, the litigated
film cannot be of great moment, you
will not for this reason be juftified, in
deciding against her claim ; if the money
belongs to her, (he ought to have it ;
but on the other hand, no consideration
of the circumstances, or of the compar
ative infignificanee of the defendants, can
be a ground to deny them the advantage
of a favorable verdiA, if in justice they
are entitled to it.
Go, tben, Gentlemen from the Bar,,
AND
with nit any impressions of favor or pre'
judice for the one party, or the other:
weigh well the merits of the cafe ; and
do on this, at you ought to do on every
occasion, equal and impartial judice."
The jury having been absent foroc
time, icturned to the bar, and proposed
the following queltions to the court.
I. Did the adt of the state of Geor
gia, completely veil the debts of Brailf
ford, Powel and Hopton, in the ftate,at
the time of palling the fame ?
11, If so, did tbe treaty of peace, or
any other matter, revive the tight of the
defendant! to the debt in controversy ?
In atifwer to these queltions, the chief
justice Hated, that it was intended in the
general charge of the court, to cemptife
ihciT sentiments upon the points now fug
gelled ; but as the jury entertained a
duubt, the enquiry was perfe&ly right.
On the firft question, he said it was tbe
unanimous opinion of the judges, that
the ad of the (late of G. did not vest
the debts of B. P. and H. in the Hate
at the time ofpafiing it. On the 2d ques
tion he said, that no fequeflration divellsthe
property in the thing sequestered ; and,
coniequently, Brailsford at the peace,
and, indeed, throughout the war, was
the real owner of the debt. That it is
true, the Hate ofGeorgia interposed with
her kgiflative authority to prevent. B's
recovering the debt while the war conti
nued, but, that the mere reftoratios
of peace, as well as the very terms of
the treaty, revived the right of aiSion to
recover, the debt, the property of which
had never in fadl or law been taken fiom
the defendants : And that if it were o
therwise, the fequeflration would cer
tainly remain a lawful impediment to the
recovering of a bona fide debt, due to a
British crcditm-, in direct oppolition to
the 4th article of the treaty.
After this explanation, the jury, with
out going again from the bar, returned
a f rrdicl for the Defendants.
CONGRESS.
House of Rcprcfentativcs.
January 27.
In committee of the whole on Mr. Madison's
resolutions.
( Mr. Ames's Speech continued. J
A question remains refpefling the state
6f our navigation. If we pay no regard
to the regulations of foreign nations, and
alk, whether this valuable branch of eur
industry and eapital is in a diftrelTed and
sickly llate, we (hall find it is in a ilrong
and flourifhing condition. If the quanti
ty of (hipping was declining, if it was un
imployed, even at low freight, I should
fay it must be sustained and encouraged.
No such thing is afierted. Seamen's wa
ges are high, freights are high, and A
merican bottoms in full employment.
Butthecomplaintis,our veflclsare not per
mitted to go tothe Britilh Weft-Indies. It is
even affirmed that no civilized country
treats us so illy in that refpeft. Spain
and Portugal prohibit the traffic to their
poffeflions, not only in our veffefa, but in
their own, which, according to the style
of the resolutions, is worse treatment than
we meet with from the British. It is also
asserted, and on as bad ground, that our
vefiels are excluded from most of the Bri
tish maikets.
This is not true in any sense. We are
admititted into the greater nnmber of her
ports, in our own veflels: and by far the
greater value of our exports is fold in
Britifli ports into which our veflels are re
ceived, not only on a good footing, com
pared with other foreigners, but on terms
of positive favor—on better terms than
Britifli veflels are admitted into our own
ports. We are not fubjeft to the alien
duties, & the light money See. of l/g ster
ling per ton, is less than our foreign ton
nage, not to mention the ten per cent, on
[Whole No. 516.]
the duties on the goods in foreign bot
toms.
But in the port of London our veflels
are received free. It is for the unprejudi
ced mind to compare these fatls with the
aflertions we have heard so confidently
and so feelingly ma de by the mover of the
resolutions—that we are excluded from
mod of the British ports, and that no ci
vilized nation treats our veflels so illy.
The tonnage of the veflels employed
between Great Britain and her dependen
cies and the United States is called
220,000, and the whole of this is repre
sented as our just. right. The fame gen
tleman speaks of our natural right to the
carriage' of our own articles, and that
we may and ought to infill upon our equi
table /hare. Yet, soon after, he ufesthe
language of monopoly, and represents the
whole carriage of imports and exports as
the proper objedl of our efforts, and all
that others earn- as a clear loss to Ame
rica. If an equitable share of the carri
age means half, we have it already, and
more, and our proportion is rapidly increaf
lng. If any thing is meant by the natu
ral right of carriage, one would imagine
that it belongs to him whoever he may be,
who having bought our produce, and
made himlelf the owner, thinks proper to
take it with him to his own country. It
is neither our policy nor our design to
check the sale of our produce ; we invite
every description of purchasers, because
we expect to-fell dearefl when the num
ber and competition of the buyers is the
greatest. For this reason the total exclu
sion of foreigners and their veflels from
the purchase and carriage of our exports
is an advantage, in refpeft to navigation,
winch has disadvantage to balance it, in
refpeft to the price of produce. It is
with this reserve we onght to receive the
remark, that the carriage of our exports
should be our object rather than that of
our imports. By going with our veflels
into foreign ports we buy our imports in
the belt market. By giving aiteady and
moderate encouragement to our own {hip
ping, without pretending violently to in
terrupt the course of business, experience
will soon establish that order of things
which is most beneficial to the exporter
the importer and the (hip owner. The
belt interest of agriculture is the true in
terest of trade.
In a trade mutually beneficial it is
strangely absurd to consider the gain of
others as our loss. Admitting it howe
ver for argument fake, yet, it should be
noticed that the loss of 220,000 tons of
(hipping is computed according to the ap
parent tonnage. Our veflels not being
allowed to go to the British Weft-Indic»
and their veflels making frequent voyages,
appear in the entries over and over again.
In the trade to the European dominions
of Great Britain, the diltance being great
er, our veflels are not so often entered.
Both these circumstances give a falfe lhew
to the amount of British tonnage, com
pared with the American. It is however
very pleasing to the mind to fee that our
tonnage exceeds the- British in the Euro
pean trade. For various reasons, some of
which will be mentioned hereafter, the
tonnage inthe Weft-India trade is not the
proper subject of calculation. In the Eu
ropean comparison, we have more tonnage
in the British than in the French com
merce—it is indeed more than four to
The great quantity of Biitifh tonnage,
employed in our trade, is also, in a grc?.t
measure, owing to the large capitals of
their merchants, employed in the buying
and exporting our prod\i£lions. If we
would banish the (hips, we nuil flrike at
the root and banish the capital. And t'nL,
before we haTe capital of our own grown
up to replace it, would be .n operation of
no little violence and injury, to onr sou
thern brethren especially.
Independently of this circuraflance,
Grest-Britain is an a&ive and intelligent
rival in the navigation line. Her (hips
art; dearer, and the proviiionmg her seamen is perhaps rather dearer than our?,
on the other hand, the rate of iUteri:it is
lower in England and fo-are feamtn's wa
ges. It would be improper, therefore, to
coufidcr the amount of Briiilh tonnage in
our ti-adc, as a proof of a bad Hale of
things, ariiing either from the reductions
of that government, or the negligence or
timidity.of this. We are to charge it to
causes which are more coune£ted with the
natural competition of capital and industry,
causes which in fr.ft retarded the growth
of our (hipping more when we were
colonies and our (hips were free than since
the adoption of the present government.
It has been said, with emphasis, "that
the conttitution grew out of the com
plaints of the nation respecting commerce
efpeciaUy that with the British dominions.
What was then lamented by our patriots ?
Feebleness of the public counsels, the (ha
dow of union, and scarce the flradow of
puVnc credit, every where despondence,
the pre (lure of evils, not only great, but
portentous of civil diltrattions. These
were the grievances and what more was
then delired than their remedies! Is it
pofiible to Purvey this profperons country,
and to aflert that they have been delayed?
Trade fioui idles on our wharves, although
it droops in ipeeches ; manufoftures have
riie:i under the lhaic of protecting duties
from ahnoll nothing, to such a Hate, that
we are even told it is fafe to dep end on
the domed ie ftipply, if the foreign (hotild
ceafc. The-lifheries, which we ibuifd in
decline, are in the molt vigorous growth ;
the whale fiihery, which our allies would
have transferred to Dunkirk, r.ow traver
ses the whole orean. To that hardy race
of men, the fe'a is but a park for hunting
its monlters ; such is their activity, the
deeped abyfTes scarcely afford to their prey
an hiding place. Look round, and fee
how the frontier circle widens, how the
interior improves, and let it be repeated,
tint the hopes of the people, when they
formed this conditution, have been fruf-
t rated.
But if it should happen' that our pre
judices prove stronger than our senses, Jf
k should be believed that our farmers and
merchants fee their products and {hips
and wharves going to decay together,and
they are ignorant or silent on their own
ruin—itill the public documents would
not disclose k> alarming a state of our af
fairs. Our imports are obtained so plen
tifully and cheaply that one of the avow
ed objects of the refutations is, to make
them scarcer and dearer. Our exports,
fj far fom languishing, have increased
two millions of dollars in a year. Our
navigation is found to be augmented be
yond the molt sanguine expectation.—
We hear of the vast advantage the Eng
lish derive from the navigation ad, and
we are asked in a tone of accusation, (hall
we fit still, and do nothing Who is bold
enough to fay, Congress has done no
thing for the encouragement of Ameri
can navigation ? To counteract the navi
gation aCI, we have laid on Britilh a high
er tonnage than our Own veflels pay in
their ports —and what is much more ef
fectual we have imposed ten per cent, on
the duties, when the dutied articles are
borne in foreign bottoms. We have also
made the coailing-trade a monopoly to
our own velfels. Let those who have as
serted that this is nothing, comparc faCts
with the regulations which produced
them.
Tons. Excess of
Tonnage.
American 1789 297,468 American
Foreign 265,116 tonnage.
American 1790 - — 347,663
Foreign 258,916
563,810
2 Vp,799
~£ 123,011
+ij>33'
244,263
American 1791
Foreign
American 1792
Foreign
Is not this increase of American ship
ping rapid enough ? Many perfor.s fay it
ia too rapid, and attrafti too much capi
tal for the circumftanrte-of the .country.
1 cannot readily myfelf \o think
so valuable n branch of employment thrives
too fai- But z it&dy and sure encou
ragement ii more to be relied on than vio
lent methods of forcing its growth. It
it not clear that the quantity of our navi
gation, including our coasting and fifHing
vefTels is lei's, In proportion to those of
that nation. In tint computation, we
fhaO probably find, that we are already
more a navigating people than the Eng
li(h.
As this is a growingcounfry,we have the moftfteble
fround 0 d pendente on the corresponding growth
or our navigation : and that the inueaGng/ienund
tor (hipping wilt rather fall to the iliare of Americans
than loielgners is ant to bi denied We
this from die nature ot our own I w.—we have been
conhr cried in rt oy experience—ai.u we know that an
American bottom is actually preferred © a toreigA
one. Id cases where one partner is an American
and (mother a foreigner, the ihip is made an Ameri
can bottom A fatt ot this kind overthrows a
whole theory ot reafonirie on the neceditv of further
It lhj\y j thai the work, of rcttriction
&6ns.
'n ilv>ue.
If we uke the aggregate view of our commercial
intereiis, we fliall had much more occalion tor fa
t:staCtio;i,& eve., exultation, t!un co«.pUint,& none
lor defpondeiice. it woo id be too bold to lay iliac
our condition is so eligible there is nothing to be
wilhed. Ncitliej the order of nature nor the allot
ments of Providence alibid perleCt content* and it
would be absurd to expect in our politics what is de
nied in the laws of our being. The nations with
whom we stave intercourse have, without exception,
more or lets reitrifted their commerce. They have
tramed their regulations to suit their real or Uncied
intcrelts. The code of France is as full of reltric
tions as that of England We have regulations of
our own, and they are unlike those of any other
country —inasmuch as the intereiis and circum
ftuuees ol nations vary so essentially, the project of
an exa£t reciptocity on our part is a viiion. What
we defne is to have not on exa£l reciprocity, but an
imercourfe of mutual benefit and convenience—lt
has scarcely been so much as inftnuated that the
change contemplated wiil be a profitable one —that
it will enable us to fell dearer and to buy cheaper—
on the contrary, we are invited to submit to the ha
zards and losses of a conflict with our customers—
to engage in a contest of felf-denial. For what —to
obtain better markets ? no such tiling—But to (hut
up, forever, if pollible, the best market we have for
our exports, and to confine ourlelvea to the dearest
and scarcest markets for our imports. And this to
be done forthe benelit of trade, or as it is sometimes
more corredtly said for the benefit of Franoe. This
language is not a little incontinent and ltrange from
those who recommend a non-importation agreement
and who think we thould even renounce die sea and
devote ourselves to agriculture. Thus to make our
trade more free it is be embzrraffed and violently
(hifted from one country to another, not according
to the interest of the merchants, but the visionary
theories and capricious ralhnefs of the legislators.—
To make trade bettei it is to be made nothing.
So far as commerce and navigation are regarded,
the pretences for this contest are confined to two.
We are not allowed to carry manufactured articles to
Great-Britain, nor any produ&s, except of our own
growth ; and we are r.ot permitted to go, with our
own veflTels, to the Wett-lndies. The former,
which is a provision of the navigation adt, is of lit
tle importance to our intereth, as our trade is chief
ly a direitone, our (hipping not being equal to the
carrying for other nations, and our manufactured ar
ticles arc not permitted in quantities for exportation,
and, if they were, Greaf-Britain would not be a cus
tomer. So far therefore the reftri&ion is rather
nominal than real.
The exclusion of our veflels from the Weft-Indies
is of more importance. When we propose tp make
an effort to force a privilege from Great-Britain,
which (he is loth to yield to us,it is necessary tocom
pofe the value of the object with the effort, and,
above all, to calculate very warily the probability of
success. A trivial thing deserves not a great exer
tion ; much less ougfit we to (lake a very" great
good in poftelfion for a (light chance of a less good.
The carriage of one half the exports and imports to
and from the Briti(h Weft-Indies is the object to be
contended for Our whole exports to Great-Britain
are to be hazarded. We fell on terms of privilege
and positive favor, as it has been abundantly (hewn,
near seven millions to the dominions of Great-Bri-
tain. We are to rifle the privilege in this greata
mouat —For what. For the freight only of one
half the B. Well-India trade with the U. States.
It belongs to commercial men to calculate the entire
value of the freight alluded to. But it cannot bear
much proportion to the amount of seven millions.
Beiides, if we are denied the privilege of carrying
our articles is our vetrels to the illands, we are on a
footing of privilege in the lale of them. We have
one privilege if not two. It <s readily admitted that
it is a deniable thing ro have our veiTels allowed to
go the Lnijiifh illands, but the value of the objedt has
it's limits; and we go unquestionably beyond them,
when we throw our whole exports into confufion and
run the rilkof looting our belt markets, for the fake of
forcing a permiifion to carry our own produdh to
one of those markets; in which too, it lhould be
noticed, we fell much less than we do to Great-Bri
tain herfelf—lf to this we add, that the success of
the contert is grounded on sanguine and passionate
hypothecs of our being able to llarve the islanders,
which on trial, may prove falfe, and which our be
ing involved in the war would overthrow at once, we
may conclude, without going further into the dif
cuflion, that prudence forbids our engaging in the
hazards of a commercial war; that great things
(hould not be stated againll such as are of much less
value ; that what we poflefs (hould not be risked for
what we desire without great odds in our favor; (till
less if the chance is infinitely against us.
3 2 >35 2
88,747
If these confederations (hould fail of their effect,
it will be neceflary to go into an examination of the
tendency of the system of discrimination to redress
and avenge all our wrongs, and to realize all our
hopes.
it has been avowed, that we are to look to
France, not to England, for advantages in trade; we
are to (hew our spirit, aud to manifelt towards those
who are called enemies, the spirit of enmity, and
towards those we call friends something more than
paflive good will—We are to take adtive measures to
force trade out of it's accustomed channels, and to
Ihift it by such means from England to France. The
care of the concerns of the French manufacturers may
be left perhaps as well in the hands of the Conven
tion as to be usurped into our own. However our
zeal might engage us to interpofc, our duty to our
own immediate conltituents demands all our atten
tion. To volunteer it, in order to excite competi
tion in one foreign nation to supplant another, is a
verv ft range business; and to do it, as it has been
irrefutably proved it will happen, at the charge and
cod of our own citizens, is a thing equally beyond
all juftification and all example. What is it btit to
tax our own people for a time, perhaps for a long
time, in order that the French may at latt fell as
cheap as the Englifli—cheaper they cannot, nor is it
so much as pretended. The tax will be « loss to us,
171,067
and the f«nci.J tendency of il not to thss
country in event, but to France —We ftull pay
more tor a time, and iu the end pay no lef>; tor no
objeit but thai of one nation may receive our money
initcad of tht other: If this is generous towards
francejit is-uot just to America. It is facriftciugwhat
we owe to our constituents to what we pretend to
feel towards strangers. We have indeed heard a ve
ry ardent protcifion of gratitude to that nation, and
infinite reliance seems to be placed on her readiness
to lacrifice her intcreft to ours. The ltoryot this
gejfcrous ftrife Ihoul.l be left to ornament hot ion.
I hit is not the form nor the occasion to discharge
our obligations of any fort to,any foieign nation —it
concerns not our feelings but our interests yet the de
b.ue has often soared high above the smoke of busi
ness into the epic region. The market for tobacco,
tar, turpentine and pitch has become matter of sen
timent, and given occasion alternately to rouse our
courage and our gratitude.
Ifinllead if hexameters, we prefer discussing our
relation to foreign actions in the common language,
we (hall not find that we are bound by treaty to esta
blish a preference in favor of the French. The treaty
is founded on a profelTed reciprocity—favor for fa
vor —why is the principle of treaty or no treaty made
so eflcntial, when the favor we are g*ing to give is an
ad of supererogation. It is notexpe&ed by one of the
nations in treaty : for Holland has declared in her
treaty with us, thatfuch preferences are the fruitful
source of animosity, embarraflment and war. The
French have set no such example. They discrimi
nate, in their late navigation a&, not as we are ex
horted to do between nations in treaty and not in
treaty, but between nations at war and not at war
with them so that when peace takes place, England
will (land by that adl on the fame ground with our
selves. Mr. Ames proceeded to (hew that if we expedt
by giving favor to get favor in return, it is impro
per to make a law. The business belongs to the ex
ecutive in whose hands the constitution has placed
the power of dealing with foreign nations. He no
ticed it's Angularity to negotiate legislatively—to
make by a law half a bargain, expecting a French
law would make the other. He remarked that the
footing, of treaty or no treaty, was different from the
ground taken by the mover himfelf in supporting his
system. He had said favor for favor was principle;
Nations not in treaty grant savors—those in treaty
reftridl our trade. Yet the principle of discrimi
nating in favor of nations in treaty was not only in
consistent with the declared dodtrine of the mover
and with fails, but it is inconsistent with itfelf. Na
tions not in treaty are so very unequally operated
upon bjtthe resolutions it is absurd to refer them to
one principle. Spain and Portugal have no treaties
with us, and are not disposed to have Spain
would not accede to the treaty of commerce between
us and France, though (he was invited—Portugal
would not ftgn a treaty after it had been difcufled and
signed on our part. They have few (hips or manu
factures and do not feed their colonies from us ; of
course there is little for the discrimination to operate
upon. The operation on nations in treaty is equal
ly a satire on the principle of diicrimination. Swe
den, with whom we have a treaty, duties rice higher
if borne in our bottoms, than in her own. France
does the like, in refpedt to tobacco two and half li
vres the quintal, which in effedt prohibits our vessels
to freight tobacco, as the duty is more than the
freight. He then remarked on the French naviga
tion adt, the information of which had been given to
the house since the debate began. He said the mo
ver had, somewhat unluckily, proposed to except
from this fyllem nations having no navigation adts,
in wUich cafe France would become the fubjedt of
unfriendly discrimination as well as Great-Britain.
He remarked on the disposition of England to fet
tle a commercial treaty, and adverted to the known
desire of the Marquis of Lannfdowne (then prime
minister) in 1783, to form such an one on the mod
liberal principles. The history of that business and
the causes which prevented it's conclusion ought to
be made known to tho public. The powers given to
our ministers were revoked, and yet we hear that no
such disposition on the part of Great-Britain has ex
isted. The declaration of Mr. Pitt in parliament,
in June, 1792, a:i well as the correspondence with
Mr. Hammond, (hew a desire to enter upon a ne
gociation. The statement of the report on the pri
vileges and reftri&ions of our commerce, that
Great-Btitain has {hewn no inclination to meddle
with the fubjedl seems to be incorredt.
After tracing the operation of the resolutions on
different nations, he examined the supposed tenden
cy to dispose Great-Britain to fettle an equitable
treaty with this country. He alked whether those
who held such language towards that nation as he
heard could be supposed to desire a treaty and friend
ly conne&ioa. It seemed to be thought a merit to
express hatred— it is common and natural to desire
to annoy and to crulh those whom we hate, but it is
somewhat lingular to pretend that the deiign of
our anger is to embrace them.
The tendency of angry measures to friendly difpo
lit ions and arrangements is not obvious. We affect
to believe that we (hall quarrel ourlelves into their
goodwill. We lhall beat a nfcw path to pcace and
friendlhip wiih Great-Britain, one that is grown up
with thorns and lined with men-traps and fpring
guns It (hould be called the war path.
To do justice to the fobjeft its promised
advantages Ihou'd be examined. Exciting the com
petition of the Frenck is to prove an advantage to
1 his country, by opening a new market with that
nation. This is scarcely intelligible. If it means
any thing, it is an admilfion that their market is
not a good one, or that they have not takin measures
to favor our traffic with them. In either cafe our
system is absurd. The balance of trade is against us
and in favor of England. But the resolutions can
only aggravate that evil, for, by compelling us to-buy
dearer and fell cheaper, the balance will be turned
still more against our country. Neither is the sup
ply from France less the aliment of luxury than that
from England. The excess of ciedit is an evil which
we pretend to cure by checking the natural growth
of our own capital, which is the undoubted tendency
of retraining trade, the progress of the remedy is de
layed. If we will trade, there mult be capital. It
i 9 bed to have it of our own, if we have it not we
must depend on credit. Wealth springs from the
profits of employment, & the best writers on the fub
jedl eltablifh it, that employment U in proportion to
the capital that is to excite and reward it. Toftrike
off credit, which is thr substitute for capital, if it
were poflible to do it would so far Hop employment.
Fortunatelv it is not pofiible ; the activity of indivi
dual industry eludes the mif-judgine power of go
vernments. The refolwtions would in effedt in
crease the demand for credit, as our produ&s felling
for less in a new market, and our import* being
Im%1: wou'.J > U'. rx> ?v i. A r.-orr
licej ui :t. vs.;u:J prouutc c.'edir. W:.- .t
I'.ic laws arc itrkt it *ni K»ou hud > ts />'opor 1 c
.the uses of credit will remain and the ev.i Will d
appear.
Eut th» whole theory of balances of trade, of help
ing it by relfraint, and protecting it by lyrtems or
prohibition and reflriCtion aguinlt foreign nations, as
well as the remedy torcredrt, are among the exp<o
ded dogmas which are equally the maxiir.s
of science and the authority of time. Many such
topics have been advai.ccu which were known to
exirt as prejudices, but were riot cxpe&ed as ar-;u-
it Icims io be Uviievcu liiit 15 jC i:;crty or
commerce ij> oi !jmf Va.u.\ tl.<*re ciie
jeltrictions o;'. one liJc. thcieu.il fume I.Seriy
Icti, courucr ,c.IJ .itiojis, uiuiu.iii.nig tii.il ii T> -
ments.
ty are in their nature aggravations awe not icincdiei.
We complain of the Bntifn reitndiioes asot a in il
ftone —our own fvlteni *ill be another, lo that our
trade may hope to be situated between the uygfcfand
the neiher tniliftone.
On the whole, theTefolutions contain two greet
principles. To control trads by ia*', inltead of
leaving it to the bettermanagement of the merchants,
and the principle of a sumptuary law. 'o play the
tyrant in the compting house, and in diretting the
private expences of our citizens, are employments e
qually unworthy ot difcuflion.
Besides the advantages ot the fjftera, we have
been called to another view ol it, and-which seems
to have less connection with the merits of the difcuf
lion. The adts of states and the votes ol public bo
dies before the constitution was adopted, and the
vot.-s of the house since, have been ft. ted as frounds
for our assent to this measure at this time. To help
our own trade, to repel any real or supposed attack
upon it, cannot fail to prepoflefs themind, according
ly the firft feelings of every man y icfcf to this propo
rtion. But the foberjudgment on the tendency and
reasonableness of the intermeddling ot government
often does, and probably ought (till oftenei ia change
our impreflions. On a second view of the question,
the man who voted formarly for reftridtions may
fay—much kas been done under the new constitution
and the good effedts are yet making progress. The
necessity of mealures of counter rettridticn will ap
pear to him muuh less urgent, and their cfficacy in
the present turbulent state of Europe infinitely less
to be relied on. Far from being inconsistent in his
condudt, consistency vvill forbid his prefling the ex
periment of his principle under circumstances which
baffle the hopes of its success. But if to muchftrefs
is laid on former opinions in favor of this meal u re,
how happens it that there is so little on that which
now appears againll it. Notone mechant has ("poke
in favor ot it in this body ; not one navigating or
commercial state haspatronifed it.
Mr. Ames then entered pretty fully into the con
federation of'the absolute dependence of the British
Weft-India islands on our supplies. He admitted
that they cannot draw them fowell, and so cheap
from any other quarter ; but this is not the point.
Are they physically dependent. Can we starve
them, and may we realonably cxpe£t thus to dic
tate to Great-Britain a free ad m illion of our vessels
into her islands. Ile went into details to prove the
negative. Beef and pork, from the now United
States to the Britilh Weft-Indies, 177;, J4«9v3 bar
rels. In the war time, 1780, ditto from England,
17,795. At the end of the war, 1783,16,526. —
Ireland exported on an average of seven years prior
to 1777, 250,000 barrels. Salted till) the Ertglith
take in abundance, and prohibit it from us. But
ter andcheele from England and Ireland are but
lately baniihed even from our markets. Exports
from the now United States—l 773, horfej 2768 —
cattle 1203 —theep and hogs 5,320. Twenty-two
years prior to 1791, were exported from England to
all ports, 29,13 1 horses. Ireland on an averaee of
seven years to 1777, exported 41"4*. live-dock exclu
sive of hogs. The coaftof Earbary, the Cape de
Verds, &c. supply (heep and cattle Ihe islands
fincethe war, have increased their domestic supplies
to a great degree.
The now United States exported about 13,000
barrels of flour in 1773 to the Weft-Indies, lie
land by grazing less could fufply wheat—England
itfelfufually exports it, lhe alio import? from Arch
angel, Sicily and the Karbary states furniih wheat
in abundance. We are deceived when we farlcy we
can starve foreign countries. France is reckoned to
consume grain at the rate of seven buihels to each
foul. Twenty-fix millions of fouls the quantity
182 millions buftiels—We expert to speak in round
numbers five or fix millions bufnels to jII the differ
ent countries which we fopplyi a trifle this to their
wants. Fiugality is a greater recourse. Instead of
seven bufliels perhaps two could be laved by liinting
the consumption of the food of cattle or by the ufc of
other food. Two bufliels saved to e<.ch foul is fifu
two millions of bushels, a quantity which the whole
trading world perhaps could not furnifh. Rice is
said to be prohibited by Spain and Portugal to favor
their own. Brafil could supply their rice instead of
ours. Lumber—he stated the danger of despising
Canada and Nova-Scotia too much as rivals in the
Weft-India supply, especially the former. The de
pendence the Englilh had placed on them some yea;s
ago had failed, partly because we entered into com
petition with them on very superior terms; and
partly because they were then in an infant state.
They are now supposed to have coi.fiderably mere
than doubled their numbers since the peace, and if
instead of having us for competitors for the supply a»
before, we (hould (hut ourselves out by relulihg our
supplies or being refufed entry for them, those two
colonies would rife from the ground, at least we
lhoulddo more to bring it about than the English »>i
niftry had been able to do. In 177?, 679 veli'eis,
the adhial tonnage of which was 128,00 c, weie em
ployed in the Weft-India trade. They were suppo
sed on good ground to be but half freighted to the
iftands | they might carry lumber, and the fieicht
supposed to be deficient would be at 4cf. fleriii.e »! e
ton, 128,c00 iterling. Thisfum would dimi
nish the extra charge of carrvii:? lumber to the in
lands. But is lumber to be had ? Yes, in Gerrr*-
ny, and from the Baltic. It is even cheaper in
Europe than our own. Btfides which, the lm>l
woods used in mills are abundant in the islands. We
are told they can (>ll their rum onlv to the United
States. This concerns not tfoeir fubfntence but their
profit. Examine it however. In x 773- the now
United States took, neci three million callors rum.
The remaining Briiifh colonies, Newfoundland and
the African coast have a corjfidcrable demand for thi;
article. The demand of Ireland is very much on
the increase. It was in 1763. <jjo,coo gallons;
'77°» 1,558,000 gallons; 1778, 1,729,000 gal
lons.
(To becorc/uded in our n'r'.JPHILADELPHIA,
FEBRUARY 18.
Theatricals.
Last evening the NEW THEATRE
was opened with that much admired comic
opera 7/je Caffle of Anda/vjiu, and the
after piece U bo's the Dupe.
It was well for those who " took time by
the forelock," numbers finding it impcf
fible to gain admittance, the crqud was so
great: the novelty of a New Theatre at
tracted many who were not perhaps its
belt .viihers ; but prejudice scon gave
way, and univeriiil latiifa&ion appeared
in every countenance.
The manner in which this truly elegant
theatre is laid out, merits the highest ap
probation. Nothing has been neglected
fjr the accommodation of the Lovers of
the Drama; every advantage having
been taken in what may be termed 'the
appropriation of fpaeethe boxes and
galleries are ranged in the form of a cre
icent. Every individual has an equal
view of the stage without incommoding
each other—an inconvenience so much
complained of from the quadrangles of
old theatres. The houfc was brilliantly
lighted—patent lamps formed the foot
lights, and fpcrmaceti candies the residue.
The '/cut enfeatie' exhibited a charming
* Ccup d'eil.'
Wigncll the leading manager, has done
justice to his arduous million—like the
good Hulbandman of old, he has picked
up the Eurs and left the Tares; for a
more choice and refpefiable Company, in
public or private walk, never appeared on
Theatrical Boards—May lie enjoy the
fhutsof his intluftry, 'foul fweetningjftaife,'
and the gratulations of the public.
The prcfent limits only permit a hint,
relative to thcrefpe&ive performers—Mrs.
Wairel fling delightfully—Mrs. Marftiall
did ample jullice, to what Fame had anti
cipated—Miss Broadhurft, tlip charming
little Syren, electrified the gods, and was
deservedly encored-—Mr. Darky, as a
br.is finger, ifands unrivalled—his Tones
vibrated thro' every pafTage of the Thea
tre—Mr. Marlhall has long stood without
a competitor—his adling, and his singing,
added to his graceful a<ftion, was inimita
ble.—We saw with pleasure, our old fa
vorite Wignell, in a new character, he
was every thing that one could wish, in
Don Spado—Mr. Morton was very ref
pcflablc, as a young candidate on the
Stage—Mr. Francis would have pleased
better, bad he omitted looking at his
feet, after his metamorphulis ; he is a ref
pcftable aflor, and ever ready to profit bv
a hint.
The late hour the play finilhed, pre
vents us faying any thing of the merits of
the after piecr—we Willi the managers to
attend to this hint, at such late hours not
only mar the pleafuvcs of the evening, but
are inconvenient to many.
In the General Advertiser of Saturday,
we wete favoveu with the following pa
ragraphs.
" The friends of the French now de
precate the resentment bf France, and
fhouM that Republic become hostile, we
are left alone to encounter with everv
power in Euro]^."
u The friends of the French know,
that this country must finally depend on
the frtendfhip of France, for the main
tenance of oirr Liberties and commerce,
every American, the?efore, that is a friend
to our future happiness mud wish Success
to the Republic of France."
"By uniting with that Republic we
ilznd, by dividing with them we fall."
On leading the foregoing with atten
tion, I was struck with surprize, and eon
eluded Tii my own mind, that taking the
paragraphs in the latitude in which they
lire espreffed, they could not be the sen
timents of a real American freeman, but
of some person in the pay and under the
influence of aJefign nation.
To with that the Republic of France
may be able to maintain its liberty, is one
thing, but shall the sice sons of Columbia
fretr its reJe/iJmet/ts, and for that reason
make the fheddingof blood by the Guil
loiirte, a common cause ?
If I could suppose it was either true in
fa£t, or that it was a prevailing sentiment
among our citizens, that " wemuft depend"
on any poucr on earth " for the maintain
ance of our liberty I would fay, Ame
rica was no longer free, and disown my
country forever.
I am apt tft biflieve however, that a
certain party will not thank the writer,
for the above disclosure of their fentimerito.
February 17.
" ISABELLA, or the FATAL
MARRIAGE" and " ROSINA or
the REAPERS," were announced for
To-Morrow evening, at the New Thea-
Exlrad of a letter from Liflon, dated Olio-
ber 26, 1793,
" An affair has happened at Genoa,
between a French national frigate lying
there, and a cutter sent by Lord Kood,
underthe King's white flag (Louis 17th)
that may occasion at once that Republic
either to declare for France or En. land,
for the frigate seized the Captain of the
cutter and ilrangled him. On information,
an Englift line of battle was sent into the
port, and the French frigate captured.
The Genoese have complained of this last
affair, and the English minister has pub
lished a mairfeflo, setting forth partial con
duct of the Genoese, and it is said, infifU
on their declaring on one fide or the other
in 8 days—ln short, this war, before it is
finifhed, We are afn.id, will involve all the
European powers. We sincerely hope a
good understanding may encr amain be
tween Great-Britain and America, as it
will be dreadful to both, if a rupture (hould
take place.—P. S. Just now the English
convoy has arrived, and a part of the
Dutch, ar.d it is reported there are be
tween 50 and vends with wheat and
flour, so that for the present, we (hall have
an abundant supply."
Appointment.
The Hon. Thomas Smith, Esq. (late
Prelident of the 4th c'iltrict, comprehend
ing the counties of Cumberland, Bedford,
Franklin, Huntingdon and Mifflin) is ap
pointed by the Governor an Aflociate
Judge of the Supreme Court; -vice, the
HV>n. William Bradford, Esq. (now)
Attorney-General of the United States.
By this Day's Mail.
BOSTON, February 8.
There is a report in town, that the let
ters of the recal of Mr. Genet, have ar
rived at the feat of government; and it
has been luggelted, but from what source
we have not been able to learn, that M.
Le.Tombe, late Consul for the Northern
States, willfucceed him.
On Thursday lad, Prince Edward, fort*
of his Britannic Majesty, arrived in this
town from Quebec. We are told that
his Highness has lately been promoted to
the rank, of Brigadier-Geneial, and is to
have a command in the army in the Weft-
Indies.
From the anxiety to obtain Tickets
for Monday Evening's elegant Enter
tainment, we anticipate a full house ; and
we learn, that a dillinguifhed charafler,
now in town, will be present at the Thea
tre—in which we are sure he will fee a
master-piece of elegant workmanlhip, art,
and execution, a brilliant and liberal au
dience, and we doubt not, a performance
worthy both the audience and the dome.
NEW-YORK, Feb. 17
From the DIARY of Saturday.
The Ship Favorite capt. Story, armed here this
normvg, in 50 daysjrom Amflerdam ; He informs
us, that a pnjfcnger on board another vejfel hound to
litis p' a ct, hud before they failed, received a printed
paj-er, the date of which he does not remember y con
taining an accouut that the French army had retaken
Teuton, between the middle and end of November.
The Favorite left the Texel the lid. of December, ha_
tling lain ttieie fcveral da\s waiting for jwind. W e
have received Amflerdam paper* oj thegth. 10th, 1 ith
and 12 th. of the fame month, zohicJi mention nothing
of the taking of Toulon, the fallowing particulars are
translated
Several account> inlke Haerlem papers,of the 10 th
and nth. December, m ntion, that a feveie ait ion
took place between the French and Prufjian armies, on
the 29th and 30th November, near Lantern and Lr
ienberch—that there wcie three Saxon Battalions
cut to pieces on the Jiijt day ; General Kalkreuth
was mortally wounded and afterwards carried to
Frankfort; and Major litrchjeld, Aid to the Duke
of b) unfarick, was killed. It is said th.it General
K/iefl was killed. Ihat the l'ruffian military chefl,
after the battle, was removed to Laudciiburg, to re
main the.e till further orders ; the reason was, they
expetled a third attack from the French.
7 hey JuppoJe the loJ\ of the French to be 11,000
men ; that the combined armies h*d a/Jo lojt conjider
abU numbers, under llohenioe 7000, ana the Duke
oj Urinifwu k 4000, &c.
i'jjUia! confirmation is vet received of Lord
I owe*s having captured any 0/ the French jleet, but
that iht French hud ejeaped.
PRICE of STOCKS.
6 per cents, 18/2
io/I
ii/I
3 ditto,
U. S. 12 per cent, adv
Pennfykania <3*. io ditto ditto.
The POffice bufincfs engaged the
attention of the House of Rep;efei;tativcs
this day—Progress reported.
A Madrid paper of the 20th Dec. re
ceived by the (hip Adi iana from Bilboa,
contains a lengthy account of a sortie
made by the allied forces at Toulon on the
30th of November—the übjeet of which
was to take a fort in the neighborhood—
from which the French annoyed the alli
ed pods—The allies were fuecefsful in
carrying the fort, but while their troops
•were engaged in plundering the French
camp, they were attacked, and after fpik
mg the cannon, obliged to abandon .their
conquest, and retreat back again. In this
retreat, Gen. O'Hara was wounded in
the arm, and taken prisoner.
The combined loss on this occasion, is
stated at 430 killed, wounded, prisoners,
and miffing.
After the above affair, the French made
three different attacks on a foil near Tou
lon, and were repulsed with loss.
Letters by this day's port from New
ark inform, that, an armed vessel has ar
rived there from Halifax, with the Bri
ti(h December mail—that the packet left
Falmouth the 20th of that month—that
none of the French fleet had been captur
ed by Lord Howe—that Toulon at the
date of the last accounts received in Eng
land was fafe—and that Lord Rawdon
was at Jersey.
English papers to the 16th December
it is laid, are received by the Packet.
The Baltimore papers of the 14th and
15th inftantsdo not inform of any arrival
at Annapolis, from France.
FROM CORRESPONDENTS.
The opening the doors of a certain
Body, has confirmed the apprehensions
which were entertained of the aristocratic
spirit, which was fufpefted to lurk there.
The members of that honorable body, are
thought by fame, to be admifiible, like
the Pt't'rs oj Great-Britain, to declarations
on their honor, while the plebeians of other
legislative bodies, must depose on oath
Such a patrician idea is novel in this
country.
It is a maxim in free countries, that in
all judicial difcudions, both parties (hould
be heard—audi alteram partem—What
(hould we think of a tribunal, which after
hearing one fide, (hould propose to stop
the other, from deriving his arguments
from the fame source, as those to which
they were intended as a reply. It is hoped,
none such, will ever exist in this country.
SHIP NEWS.
Captain Fitzpatrick saw 36 fail of the line,
British. fleet, cruizing off the Lizard.
Captain Lee left at Bordeaux about 100 fail
of American veflels—a lilt of which follows:
Prudence, Miller, Philadelphia ; Peter,
Wall, New-York; Hope, Chadwick, Mar
blehead ; Maria, Church, New-York; Ca
rolina, Wilder, Charleflon ; Pallas, Wells,
Boston ; Fame, Frafer, ditto; Fanny, Per
ry, Charleflon ; Fame, Borland, Boston ;
Molly, Johnfton, Georgetown; Nymph,
Webb, Philadelphia; Baring, Cooper, do.
Minerva, Snell, ditto j Merchant, Jones,
Portland ; Mary, Jones, Boston; Favorite,
Orne, Portsmouth ; Somerset, Miller, New-
York ; Elizabeth, Cliff, Boston ; America,
Ewing, Philadelphia ; Lally, Collins, Bos
ton ; George, Prowfe, Portsmouth ; Mol
ly, Farrell, Philadelphia; Commerce, Preb
ble, Portland ; Agnes, Wells, Charleston;
Harmony, Rengler, ditto; Thomas, Revell,
ditto ; Vauture, March, Newburyport; Pre
sident, Carhart, Philadelphia ; Hannah, Rus
sell, Newburyport ; Maryland, Davis, G.
Town ; Diana, Emery, Boston ; Sans Sou
ci, Croizer, Petersburg ; Maflachufetts,
White, Boston ; Zephyr, Pepper, ditto ;
Speedwell, Crawford, Warren; Diana,
Pease, Boston; Columbia, Sote, Freeport;
Nancy, Gerrifh, Newburyport ; RufTel,
Reed, Charlfton; Union, Johnfton, Bristol,
Maflachufetts; Deux Fres, Greenleaf, Mas
sachusetts ; Nancy, Weft, Salem ; Caroli
na Planter, White, Charleston ; Franklin,
Wilbridge, Freeport ; Louisa, Morgan,
York-Town ; Eliza, Worfley, Boston ;
Patuxent Planter, Dorset, Nottingham;
Neptune, White, Pownalboro ; Thomas
Wilson, Goefet, Philadelphia} Richmond,
Lee, Richmond; Lvdia, Gardner, Sher
burn; Bethia, Bramble, Peterfburgh; Good
Friends, Ell'.fon, Philadelphia ; Harmony,
Ofman, ditto; Two Pollys, Fairchilds, Sa
vannah ; Favorite, Lewis, Boston; Ster
ling, Clement Dras, ditto ; Hope, Butman,
Charleston ; Ruby, Dexter, Maflachufetts ;
I/ariett, Btntlcy, Providence ; Fricnd/hip,
Rokhoufc, New-Yprk; He&or, Barker,
Philadelphia; James, Palmer, PerthAmboy ;
roily, Carter, Newburyport ; Cumberland,
Scott, Portland ; Minerva, Cutts, Pepptr
ulboro ; Minerva* Allen, Baltimore ; rat
tern, Blr.ckngtcn, Pownalboro, DetU
i>oeuis, Tike, boiton ; Rambler, Miner,
Charleilon ; Nancy, Sargent, Gkmccfter;
Ann?, Coleman, Sherburne; Harmony,Al
corn, Philadelphia ; John, Pollard, New-
York ; Hannah, Springer, Pittfon; Cathe
rine, Teer, New-York; Auror?, Seward,
Kenncßunk ; Connecticut, little, New
llaven ; Libert)-, Fields, Rhode-Island ; U
nion, Million, Charlefion.
Ext raft of a letter from Copt. Ediv. Rice f
of the Jhip America, dated Texel v l)et.
" IV/ have received certain intelligence of
the foil owing vessels being captured by tl.j
Algcrines
Ship Preft dent y Ptnrofe
Thomas, Newman,
Bfig Jane, Morse,
Schooner Dispatch, Wallace,
jßnrg* Minerva, Shaiv,
Polly, Smith,
Olive Branchy Hamilton,
George, Taylor,
Jay 9 Caldei'y
Hopey Bumbarri,
A correspondent offers the following
queries : What advantage results to
our Merchants from having their proper,
ty, (hipped for this country in liritilh
Dutch, Swedish, or other foreign bot
toms, captured at our doors?
What advantage reiults to our Farm-i
ers, from having foreign bottoms, which
come to lade with and carry off the pro
duce of their farms and plantations, cap
tured at our doors ?
the Editor has repeatedly been
fubjecled to pojlage on the Letters of persons,
who haiie in that way applied to purchase
the Fount of Long Primmer which he has
for sale —those who wi/h to buy those types,
are informed that the prtee is twenty cents
per pound, cci/h —to be paid at their delive
ry—the fount weighs about 250 ft,.
C 3* Proposals having been publijhed lafl
autumn, for continuing the Gazette ef the
United States as an half weekly paper, in
conjunction with a daily paper, frequent ap
plications (pujlage unpaid) are made by per
sons at a dijlance for the former —but as the
terms proposed on that occasion were not com
plied with, the plan of an half weekly paper
is relinqu'ifbed.
Phi lAiii I.l'HiA.FfbinaiyiQ i-qi
PROPOSALS
For priming by Subfcriptioti,
A Work, to be entitled,
THE FIRST VOLUME OF
Pennsylvania State Trials.
waui ol fufficicnt information of the
. Hate uiaU of Gicai-Britam i n the early
periods of (hat government is now lamented :
Hitherto there hath been but one tiial in the
itate ol Pcnnlylvania on impeachment : ar.d
hi re also it is to be regretted, that, being neg-
Ic&ed at the time, the public are now left with
out fufficient information on the fubjefcl of that
trial, it ig however in this woik defined to res
cue w hat can be coMcftcd theieof from sources
of mdifputapie authority, f c that the fame (hall
be preserved from oblivion.
Anorher impeachment and the second is now
depending. An officer ,j chaigcd by the late
Huufe ol Beprcfentnivei, who haih for many
years been largely confided in by this Hale, and
hath long b. en at the head of the financial de
partment ol the falnc, and II imports the cut
zt ns 10 know his conduct, and the circuinflante»
which may be brrught forward en his trial.
In this woik the Editor will be carrtul to
state the falls, as they may be brought forward,
and to lay all the evidence and papers before
the public.—With thU view
The following Terms are refpeßfully
fulmiltcd to the Public :
I. The Work llrall lie primed in octavo, with a
good type, on fine paper, and delivered lo
fublcr ibers at the rcfpeflive places where the
fublcrtptiotrs are taken in, as soon as the wo.k
shall be completed.
11. Asno tonjitiure can well be made, as to
the length of the pttfent trial, the fire of the
volume cannot be afceitaincd at this time
But the price ftiali noi exceed that of fomeot
the latcft publications in this city.
111. Ii will contain all the preliminaries and in
cidental circumstances that may occur during
the trial of John Nicholfon, tfquiic, Conip
troller-Genoa! of this commonwealth, wnh
the arguments ofcounfel on bothfide*, logethei
with the articles of impeachineir. and the
pleas and replicat ons at large, the fcveral »e
---folutions of the iwo bunches of the (fate Lc
giflature, refpe&ing this impeachment, and
the final decilion of the SENATE iefpe£iii>£
that officer.
To whil h will be prefixed , ai much airan he
collided (iom authentic documents, ol tl.e im
peachment, trial, and aequital of the lam Francis
Hopkmfon, Efquiic, Jndse of the Court of
Admiralty tor the (talc of P. nnfvlvaoia, during
the late war, nrver before pnbltfhed.
No money wiil lie required before the deli
ver y of the book.
Subfcrtptiom will be received by Francia
Bai'cy, No. 116, lligh.llrect ; Wri K lev and Ber.
nman, No. 149, Chi fnut-Urcci, and by the rill
ftrent bookfelleu in this cm Jacob Bailev,
Lancaster ; Yundt i.tld ration, Baltimore, and
by the Editoi.
EDMUND HOGAW
X. B. The pticc wul be cuhaiicid 10- ac».
fe-L-ici ibcis.
Philadelphia
llojloti
Marilehead
, PcterjburgJAMES LEACH,
I'llilA tiiVink lr> «**fi
. 1 ».« »om the
j. H, i < •<♦>. »•»*l»rfj" 4»« *!••«-
«•. h c <» • irt'u cd oiiir to • »n tlit-
I* AF* PIINh —« n i wri.id tiffc '»'* U v»-.» '«>
< , ,
tin ii, »ho t»o u"»c«* c-.i.fi.'., i.ce
i hi •> Ju llf -ijfuir» I'xilr who crttploy hini,
iV th - civ si.li nt«* flijO not he mifpliccrf
h»» v he-Im<» kouttaui#nde'a*fr*. fopayihe
fli ft it attention t»»thi ir hfH itiUnft, 10 all *ie
-01.. im "in* wtiai-v r. Be has taken the Chambcj,
n, v ste s ir<eti *>«rr Mr. David Tmnfr*d y Wch
MA. - xiop. Where PUBLIC SKCVfcI-
I 1t S, «»l ill k;iulf« *rc bought and fold ; jnd
vilirif Coinoiiffion Bnftiirli of ill kinds, W'll be
»»•«»• Aed on icafonahle l« im». HOt'SfcSanH
VKSSJ.I.S will be constantly enpofrd lrtrl*lc,dh
f G« II
cmni'' tton.
%• Cifti P'irt ffr Silrra, Ptovidflicr, and
F<»rtlinnu>h BILtS.
N. B. If d»v fieutlmtm in Philadelphia, or
AVer-V,»rl. hiU any Hujinefs to tidh[j< c . at Vo/lun,
1 r I'aptr Sro mentions, he will ie htpfc Übe em
flc \e 101 comn lhon. .
Bolton, Jan. 24, 1794.
To be Sold at Public Vendue,
On Friday the nth day of April next,
at the hciufe of 'John Thowfony in I?erth-
Amboy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
TN THAT CITY,
Lot conmni eltvui <crr», on which is
.1 an qichud o! grafted apple nets, a well of
cxcdK m water, » l» r ge ft"ne c ft<*ro, and a very
connnodiou* liable and eoach-houfc, ami a great
qu»ntny ot the b«ft buildinp stones in the walls
of the house, which was foimcrly binte for the
rcbileuce ol the Govemort of Ncw-Jerfey. The
fitu<ition* of this Lot i». (>} wdl known 'or its
Ileal: hWtcfs imd Want i fill prOfiu£t of rhe Ramon
river to the Weft «f the bav, and Sandy-Hook ro
the c..lt, that a lutther deferipticm isunn'Ct ffiry.
The conditions of tale will he, one third ot the
p irchdfr money to be paid on the si.-st day of
•M,<y next, when a good and fuTTien n' Deed wll
br given to the pmchafer, hy Walts* Ru*
j H|kl u»n, tfq. President of the Board of
Proprietors o» the Eiftetn Dvifmn of Xew-
J frv, anrt the temailiing two thitds fatisfaße
nly lecurcd to equal annual pavhacnis.
By otderoT tfv -ioinl.
JAMhS PARK&K, Rcgifter.
Perth*Ambo\ % Febrwn 5, i; 9- a^vvara
War Department.
J January 30 fh I 794*
▼VFORMATTON u. hc»ei > £we«> to all the
j. mt!tt)ry invalidsof rhe United States,that thfc
r»ms to whi.-h they aree-uitled for fix months
of thr'«r annual petition, ftom the fourth day of
September 1 793, which will hrronv due
on the sth day of March 1794, will be paid on
the said day by the Comnv.flkmcrs of the Loan*
v iihin the refp.&»vely, underlie ufoal r«-
I illation.
Application* of cxtTU?or» and adminftrators
ttimA he with lrg.il evidence of
their refprflive offr es, an d ilfo of the time the
invafrds died, whose pension they may claim.
fly command of the Pre!i«i<*nt
of the United S'sf',
Sect etary oj IVar.
£3" The printers in (he refpedtve (lain are
requeued lopuhlifh ihe in ineirnewfp*-
jlf»s fi>r the space of iwo months. -
January 30
JUST PUBLISH I- D,
AND SOLD BY
H. & P. RICE, No. 50, Markft-ftrcet,
alio, by BENJAMIN JOHNSON,
No. 147, Market-lleeet,
(Price, bound,
Paul and Mary,
An Indian Story.
to irTttcn rt .ht'dst),
The Indian Cottage
From the French of M. dt St, Pierre.
" THE above Srortrs have bern lately pub
lihjed, amongst the wi.fks ol a very different
nature, by M. de St. Pierre, who rtfidcd in the
c«u>t"v which >> describes, and wai well ac
q .aimed with the principal f»dl». In »rna
nicn'i »re the Land(cape- the Climate—and
the liaiural history of the Torrid Zone, •bter
vrd wi'.h the eye of Taste, and delineated with
ilw eve of Philosophical knowledge. It i» «
f M which the lable and the machtne
»y may be f«id 10 be equally real. To these are
ad u H, the pure »ein of Moral I. (truQion, and
Ihr Sublime Ideal of M. de St. Pierre."
d 4 t
Feb. 1
JUST PUBLISHED,
ro> M" »*
M. Carey, No. 118 ,High-Jlreet,
The PROMPTER;
Co.v.ui.v Tjnr oh Common Sjyings and
Sukjkcti, tvhich are full trf Common
Skksf., the brjfinfe in the <a)orld.
»s wi't'rn ina (tile altogether
X tujvrl, «"4 Ik adapted lo all capacities at
II WW »U rl»ffn iJ,pt<'plr, wuhan'), me.
(hMttt »»d (•""«'». Su:li a • cpainion hai thia
,v«>k »cooi l i.<Jl th«t ii h->> Polled thio ihtee ii»-
pr (B «>»"' lh ' rallern ft H«, anil many houlc
h'tlocis it so uMiil as puichafr a copy
fut ev-rv aduli in ihtii tamilici. Pa I c * si.
Febtuiiy 4. J l '
NOR RIS-COU R.T,
Rick of tue New Lbrary, betwtcu Che/nut
George Rutter,
Respectfully inform#hi« fviend; and
the public m general, that be continues
cai 1 jfiog on ti*e hufinefs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Likcwifc, JAPANNED PLATES,
for doors or window*fluifter<t,doftt in the mod
elegant mannei, and with dii'patch.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
rei<f< vt*d. and du>y attended to.
Dccciuber 30, dtf
Fr**i Los'DQXy Dublis and Glasgoit,
COLLECTION of BOOKS,
NEW Annual flegitterfor 1792
European Magazine for the fir ft fix
months of I 793
Gibbons decline and fall of the Roman Cmpire
Memoirs of the Mancheiter society, 3 vols.
Pricftly on matter ainJ I'pirit
on chriftianitv
Disney's lite of Dr. Jortin
Kingvilli's ancient geography
D'Auoii s of Guy Joli
Memty, a collection of eflays
Varieof Prussia's works
Calm obfervet —by Mackintosh
Ruflell's ancient and modern Europe
Langhorne's Plutarch
Elegant extracts, superbly gilt
Elegant extracts of natural history
Saugnier and BrifTon's voyage
Rocjinn's voyage to Madag-ifcar
Towufcnd's travels in Spain
TaflVs Jerusalem delivered
Sinellrc's trariflation of Bnffon
Berwick's hiftoiy of quadrupeds
Bnffon abridged
History of birds
Philips'* history of inland navigation
Hooper's ratronal recreations
History of France, in 3 vols.
CurWfities of literature, 3 vo ' s *
Whitaker's defence of queen Mary
Sheiician's dF&ionary, 2 vols.
Dow's history of Hindollan
Sketches of the Hindoos
Key to polite literature.
I inlay's dtfcription of Kentucky
Present state of Nova-Scotia
Preffcnt state of Hudson's Bay
Preftou on mafenry
Lavateron physiognomy, abridged
Zimmerman's survey
Murphy's life of Dr. Johnson
Necker on executive power
KifTfcs of Secundos
Gallery of portraits
Volrffcy's ruins of empires
Vaiilainrt's travels, with fwperb engraving*
Downman's infancy
Adair's hrftory of American Indians
Benington on niaterialifm and immateriahfi*
Berchold's advice to patrtotit travellers
Builder's magazine
Complete farmer
Chandon's life ofVoltaire
De Non's travels
Franklin's life and works
Grozier's description of China
Murphy's translation of Tacitns
Godwin on polticaljuftice
Gazetteer of France, 3 vols.
Helvetius on man
Kaimes's (ketches of the history ofmaa
Liberal opinion;, or the history of Benignus
Mawe's gardener** dictionary
Noble's memoirs of the Cromwell family
Playhouse dictionary
Reveries of foiitode
Smith's theory of "moral fentimenfcs
Stackhoufe's history of the bible
Watson's life of Philip ltd. & Hid.
Wonders of native and art, 6 vols.
Wanley's frontiers of the little World, called
man
Wall s on the prevention of diseases
Moore's journal in France
Cox's into Denmark, Ruflia, Poland, &c.
Cox's travels into Switzerland
Rabant's history of the French revolution
Life of Lord Chatham
Mallet's northern antiquities
Motherby's medical dictionary
Gr'rgg's advice to females
Hamilton's outlines of the practice of mid
wifery
Manning's practice of phytic
Cleghorn's diseases of Minorca
Innes on the mulcics
Pott's works
Fourcroy's chemistry
Armstrong on diseases of children
Qttincy's d fpenfatory
Edinburgh dispensatory
Lewis's dispensatory
Ryan on the asthma
Robertfon's treatise or fevers
Lee's botany,
Leake on the viscera
Leake on diseases of womfen
Nicholfon's chemistry
Gardiner on the animal economy
Lewis's Materia Medica
Fordyee on digestion
Withering on the fox glove
Lind on the diseases of heat
Monro on djfeafes of armies
Waller's physiology
Spalanzane's diflertations
London practice of physic
Bell's fargery
Chaptal's chemistry.
H. KNOX,
dam
and Walnut Streets.
fact Imported,
Am<l now opening tor "alt*, oy
MATHEW CAREY,
At No. 118, Market Jireet,
A Larfre and Valuable
Among which are the followtig
Peale's Museum,
HAS Lately received a number of article;;
among which ate the following : That
remarkable bud called the Cut-water, or fcif
ars-bill; The Avofette, commonly tailed tbe
Shoe-maker, bceaufe ol its bill resembling a
crooked awl—The Long-legs commonly call
ed the Black-btt, having perhaps the longed legs,
in propoition to the fire of the bird, of any of
the feathered tribe—The Storm-finch, common
ly called mother Cary*s chicken—The Sea
fwallow, arid various Gulls ; bcfides a variety
of C»anes, Curlews, Snipes, See.
The scull «>t » Whale .ind one of its Vertrbres.
An Indian hatchet made of chryilal : It is
curious that those uninformed wild people, hav-
ing very little knowl<sd£t aits, and being
ignorant even of the_eVift#iwe of iron and ftcel,
should be able to foi'm fwd> hard substances in
to fanciful Forms as this, and oth«.r Indian ma
nuf allures now in theMufeum.
A lignified Quince : The specimen (hews
what a remarkable effett a dry warm situation
has on fruit. It is now about 8 years fmce it
was gathered ; and 1 1 was a real quince, now be
come wood, at least in appearance.
Piefentcd by Mrs. Man (on of Charleftown,
S. C.—atoolufed by the O.aheitans in making
their bark cloth, by pounding the bark on this
instrument of wood, it produces the ribs which
lefemble threads : the perfe&ly straight and
equal lines made in this extreme hard wood, by
men without the use of iron,are curious & won
derful.
Also, a rope made of grass, part of the tigg
ing of a vessel of Kamfkatka.
Prelrnted by Dr. Hall, of Lewis-town, a Squib
in spirits : when this ftlh was found, a number
ol stones were appended to ftri»«>s or ligaments
that projr&ed from the front of its head.whfgh
occasioned a eonjefture, as it is not furnifhed
with fufficient fins to resist the violence of the
tide and currents, that it fattened wiih these li
gaments on whatever it found at the bottom ; so
that the stones anfwrred tbe purpofeof anchors
and the ligaments of a glutinous iticky nature,
that of cablet. Some of the Hones are in the
fame phial.
A coll« ftion of Minerals and other Foflils
a*e now difplaytd in drawers covered with glass
and in a mode which will feeure them from de
rangement. To each specimen are affixed refe-
rentes to a book of defesiptions. This manage
ment of specimens of the FolTil kingdom, ren
ders this part of the Museum very convenient
and fatisfa£}ory,and great attention will be paid
to the fyftcmatical order of them, and in mek
ing the neccflary essays of each : Also in giving
in a concise manner, the various uses they are
applied 10 ; thereby rendering them the more
intereftiitg to the public.
A Living Elk, of 2 years old, is just receiv
ed. By the account which monf. Button gives
of the Elk, it appears that he was not acquaint
ed with this American animal; he particularly
omits all notice of the curious apertures adjoin
ing the eyes of this Elk.
George Brin-ghurft,
COACH-MAKER,
n Mulberry (Arch) between Fourth and Fifth
Streets, adjoining the Episcopal burying
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning his
grateful thanks to his former employers,
and requesting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make and repair at the
shortest notice, all kinds of pleafiire carriages,
such as coaches, phaetons with and
without crane necks, co*hees, chaises, kitte
reens, windsor fulkeys and chaiis, and harness
of every defcription,in the neatest and new-eft
faftiion now prevailing in the United States.
And as he has a quantity of the best seasoned
wood by him, ard capital workmen, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fatisfaftion to those who pleafc to employ him.
He has for fak, several carriages almost
finished, such as coachees, an Italisn windsor
chair, hung on steel springs, a 1 igTit .phaeton for
one or two horses, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commiflion.
Philadelphia, Jan. 6, 1794- m&tgin
Notice is hereby given,
THAT the fubferiber has been duly ap
pointed Administratrix on the estate of
his Excellency John Hancock, Esq. late of
Boston, in the county of Suffolk, deceased, and
has taken upon herfelf that trust, by giving
bonds as the law diredts—and all persons in.
terefted, are desired to take notice accord
ingly.
DOROTHY HANCOCK.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793-
Take Notice.
ALL persons who have any demands against
the Eftatc of his late Excellency JOHN
HANCOCK, Esq. deceased, are requested to
exhibit the fame to the SubfcriHer, Attorney
to the Administratrix of said Estate : And all
pcrfons who stand indebted to said are
requested to fettle with him imnrdioiely ; as the
A& of Limitation of Actions, which is to take
pla-ce on the firft day of December next, will
otberwife render it neceilary for him to com
mence suits Jgainft them.
JOSEPH MAY, Attorney
to the Administratrix.
Boston, Nov. 13, 1793.
N- B The Printer* throughout this Com
monwealth, aie requested to insert rhis in their
refpe&ive newspaper*, and'forward their ac
counts fer the fame, t® J. M
Bank of the United States,
January 6tl>, 1794.
NOTICE it hereby given, that there will
be paid at «toe Bank, after the (ixteentli
instant, to the Stockholders or their represen
tatives, duly authorized fifteen dollars anil
fifty cents l'or each (hare, being the dividend
declared for the last fix months.
By Order,
JOHN KEAN.Cmfhier.
ALL persons having any de
niandf- agaioft the estate of GhORGE
WIBLE, late ot the city of Philadelphia, baker,
are riqucftcd to bring in their accounts, properly
authenticated ; and those who are indebted, ire
desired to make immediate payment.
HENRY REES, Aminiftrator.
2a\*3w.
January 13.
Encyclopedia,
JUST published,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
Bookseller, at the Stone Houle, in Secot:d
ftreet Philadelphia.
VOLUME X. OF
Encyclopedia ; or Dictionary
Of A ts, Sciences, and Mifcelianeotis
Literature) on a Plan entirely new j
Br WHICH
The Different Sciences and Arts,
are digejled into the form of
Diftindt Treaties or Syfteins :
THIS volume contains principles of Leve!s r
Liberty, Do&rine of Light, Lightning,
Locks, Logarithms, Logic, Hiltory of Lon-
don, Longitude, Luther, Lydia, Macedon,
Madagascar, Magic, Magnetism, Malts, Hil-
Tory of Man, Marriage, Mary, Maryland,
Masonry, Materia Medica, Meadow, Mecha-
nics, with a great variety of Biograph'cal and
Miscellaneous articles, illuifcrated with Twen
ty two Copperplates.
As a number ol families are still in the
country, and it is not generally known who
arereturned. T\ Dobfon, solicits tlie favor
of the subscribers to call or fend lor their vo
lumes, that they may be supplied as early as
poiTible.
The tenth volume of the Encyclopedia is
now presented to the public ; but as it makes
its appearance in an itnpcrfeA (late, some ac
count of the reason of that iinperfection AionUl
be civen. On the Bth of September last, the
Publilher had the misfoitune of having his
Printing Office burnt down by a fire which
broke out in the neighbourhood, and a great
quantity of his printing materials destroyed,
and among other articles, the figures, wiNi
which he was printing the tables op lo
garithms, belonging to the pre fen t volume,
were melted down by the violence of the fire.
As a supply of these could not he immediately
obtained, he was under the neceflity of pub
lifhing the volume without ihefe tables; lmt
hopes he (hall be able to publish them with the
next volume which is now in conliderable for-
wardnefs.
The Publisher embraces this opportunity of
expreflirtg his grateful acknowledgments to
the generous public, for the very liberal pa
tronage with which his undertaking has been
honored; at the fame time he takes the li
berty of representing to such of the fubferibers
as are in arrears, the indifpenfiWe necessity of
punctuality, both in taking up the volumes as
early as pofOble after publication, and of pay
ing for them when taken. Many oftlie fub
feribers having got only one, two, three, &:«.
volumes, and several volumes remain unpaid.
Thus the work hangs in all its differentiates
from the commencement; and though the im
portance of a few dollars may be but a trifle
to the individuals, yet the accumulation of
these trifles unpaid lays the Publisher under
very serious embarrassment, and deprives him
of the use of many Thousands of Dollars which
at this time would be of very eflential fervict.
For these reasons the Publilher finds himfeJt
under the neceflity of reciFring to the original
terms of publication, and in future no vo
lumes will be delivered but only to those who
: take and pay to the time of publication.
December 10.
Excellent CLARET,
In hogfceads and in cases of 50 bottles each.
ALSO,
A few cases Champaigne Wine ;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogsheads and quarter caiks,
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. in, South Front llreet
Htf
Cj* Terms of Subfcriptioti for this
Garctte, are Six Dollars per annum—to he
paid half-yearly. Subscriptions of persons
tuho rtfule at a diflance from the city, to be
t<weh)e months in advance, or payment to be
guaranteed at the place of publication.
J»n. g, 1794.
Aduertifement* of one square, or less, m
fertedfour times for One Dollar—oncc, for
Fifty Cents—and continuations at Twenty
Cents each—those of greater length in pro
portion, Favors in this line, and Suhfcrif -
tions, will be gratefully received at the Office
in South Four thflrset, five doors north of the
Indian Queen
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed sy JOHN FENNO, No. 3,
South Fourth-Street.
Vol. X.
2awtl J.