EVENING AD V E R T I S E R.
"No. 98 of Vol." V.] Saturday, April 5, 1794. [Whole No. 557.]
For Norfolk & FreJericksburgh,
B,l s
SALLY,
John Earl, Matter.
A staunch good velTcl, will fail in a few
days. For freight or p stage, apply to the
master onboard at Chefnut street whir., or
W JOSEPH ANTHONY'd SON.
March 31. dtf -
For Sale or Charter,
J^^^^ANDROM^CHE,
John Moore, Majler.
IS a flout good vrSl'i, about two years old,
burthen tons, I'.as only made three voy
ages, and may be'ent to fca at a small ex
pence. She may be seen at Vine-ftieet wharf,
and the terms made known by application to
WHARTON d LEWIS.
March 2i. dtt
For Amsterdam,
The new fact-failing, ccrpper
i bottomed SHIP
gf|| ADRIANA,
'*?* K. Fitzpatrick, Mailer.
BUILT of live oak and cedar and was in- j
tended for a Liverpool will fail with
all convenient speed. For freight orpaflage,
having excellent accommQdations ? appiy on
board at Walnut street wharf, or to
THOS. & JOHN KETLAND.
N. B. Pafiengers will be landed in Eng
land if required.
March 6, 1794- .
Just Imported,
In the Ship Apollo, Capt. fitzpatrick,
from Amsterdam, and now landing
* on W.'iJmit-ftreet wlaarf, viz.
GrN in pipes,
A few bales Holland Duct,
Ditto Or.nabti.rgs,
Holland Sheeting,
Juniper Berries,
Glass Ware, viz. Tumblers and Mugs, -va
rious sizes.
Sheathing Paper,
Swedes Iron, fqunre and fiat bars,
Hair Ribband, A T o. 4.
Dutch Great Coats, __
A quantity of Junk and Oakum, life. oc.
FOR SALE BV
THOMAS KETLAND, Jun.
STAe above-mentioned Ship is for Sale—
Ihotadapplication be made within a few days ;
otter wife Jhe will take freight for Amjler
datn.
March J, 1794- d—tf
Just Imported,
Inthefhip Abigail, Captain Horton, from St
Peterjburgh in Rujjia, and now landing at
RuJfelFs wharf,
HEMP,
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETINGS,
RAVENS WICK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
And (or fjle at the ilurcs of the fubfetiber in
Walnut fired, N". ?s
John Donnaldfort.
April 4. diw w&itt
George Briughurft,
COACH-MAKER,
In"Mu!berr_v-(Arch) between Fourth nnd Fifth
Streets, adjoining tlie Episcopal burying,
ground,
TAKES this opportunity of returning, his
grateful thanks to bis former employers,
and reqitcfting their future favors, as well as
those of the public in general.
He continues to make *nd repair at the
(horteft notice, all kinds of pleasure carriages,
such as coaches, chariots, phztons with and
without crane necks, coachees, chaises, kitte
rwens, windi'or fulkeys ard chaii s, and harness
afevecy description, in the neatefl and newest
fcilhion now prevailing in the United States.
And as hehasaquantity of the befl seasoned
wood by him, and capital workman, he has
not the least doubt but he will be able to give
fitmfaiSion to those who pleufe to emplyy him
He has for sale, fever*] carriages almofl
finifhed, fach as coachees, an Italian windsor
chair, bung on steel springs, a light phjeton for
one or two borfes, and a fulkey with a falling
top.
Carriages fold on Commifiion.
Jan. 6,1794. m&tii3in
* • v;
The Admirers of Sacred Music
re refpe&fiLliy i«i formed, that Oi\e or more
Peribrma nces from the mo ft approved
Paris of Handel's Works,
f particularly from the Meifeh) will be given
in the week preceding Easter Sunday, (com
mon, y called Passion week)
Al every ability in the Inftrmneutal ,and
Voc Line will be calh-d ierfch ou this pccaii
on, there is no doubt, but that a Liberal Pub
lic will take the prefeot undertaking under
their prote&ion.
N. i - Part of the Profits will fee appropri
ated to the ufeof a public charity.
A particular description of the Place Se
le<Ftioii,&c. will be given as fo«n as the netef»
fary arrangements can be fettled.
March 29.
~~N ORRIS COURT,
Back of the New Lijitry, between Chefnut
and Walni ;-Streets.
George Rutter,
Respectfully i nforms his frvijfc aini
the public in general, that he continues
carrying on the bulinefs of
Sign and Fire-Bucket Painting,
Like wife, JAPANNED PLATED
for doors or window-lhuttersydont tn tHe molt
elegant mannei, and with difpatcb.
Orders from the country will be thankfully
received, and duly attended to.
December 3<>» -tftf
"Imported -
In the Brig George and Harriot, from
Havre de Grace,
AND FOR SALE BV
Louis Ofmont\
A PERFECT
Affortrnent of Hanging Paper,
hifth coloured and plain.
White fiik Stocking", high drrflied and put
up Eogli'fti fafhton.
Thr bandtQjneft avt iricial Flowers and 'Fea
thers. wfi
Some Looking Glass Plai€« to be fold by th«
cafe.
A few hampers of Champeigne wine 6k
years old.
also,
An elegant parcel of
Bearikin MufFs,
And very beautiful Silk Cloaks, which on
account of the season wiHhe fold low, and at
a long credit.
LIKEWISE
42 pipes Madeira wine^
and a lew calks of Claiet.
A {Quantity of
Hamburgh Demijohns.
In a few Days,
He have for sale,
A GENERAL ASSORTMENT OF
White and Black Laces,
Leghorn hats, fans and camhricks, claret in
cases, a quantity of window glass well sort
ed of all size , -and a few pair of reitmrkable
Looking GlaiTes framed, all arrived at Nor
folk, now coming round.
Maroh 22. ~ tl f
In the Name of the French
Republic.
EVERY Frenchman is forbid to violate
the Neutrality of the United States.
All commissions or authorizations tending to
infringe that neutrality, are revoked, and are
to be returned to the Agents of the French
Republic.
Philadelphia, Ventofe 16th, second year of
the French Republic, one and indivisible
( March 6th, 1794, 0.-s.)
The Miuifter Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic. JH. FAUCHET.
The Editors of newspapers within the
United States, are rtrquefted to republifh the
foregoing notice. d
Writing
ON SIGN-BOARDS, JAPANN'D
PLATES, &c.
Done in the most elegant marmefr, and after
the firft matters ; likewise,
Fire Buckets
Painted and finifhfed at the ihortell notice, by
GEORGE RUTTER,
In Norris's Court, back of the New Library,
between Chefnut and Walnut,
Fourth and Fifth ftveets.
March 4. dtf
Excellent CLARET,
In bogheads aud ui caks of $© b.Q.ltlcs each.
ALSO,
A few cafes,Champaigjip Wine;
MADEIRA,
In pipes, hogtheads and quarter
FOR SALE BY
JOHN VAUGHAN,
No. m, South Front ilreet.
Jan. p, 1794. dtl
FOR SALE,
BY MATHEW CAREV, No. 118,
Maiket-Sir-ctt,
An EfTay on Slavery,
Deiigned to exhibit in a new point ot v>ew
11s effctb on murals, tndufiry, and the peace of
society. and calculations are ottered
to prove rive labor oS freemen to bf much *»are ,
productive man that ot Jlaves ; that cooatrics are
rich, powerful and happy, in proportion a* the 1
laboring peoole enjoy the fruit* of rtie-if own
liborai*t hence the n ceffary cnndufiosi, thai
llavery ip inpolitif as well a*
Price a 5 Cents.
Fet n»ry Ij. dtf
The following Certifi
rate ot the funded three prr Cent Stock of tfce
Doincftic .Debt ot the Uni.ed S?a cs standing on
be bwoks of tla£ Ttea/ury ©f th« Caid United
Slates, in the names oi Donnald and Bui ton ot
London, merchants, and fighe^ l by Joseph
Mour fe, Rfgifter of said Treasury, to wit :—
No. 54396, dated 24'h Augarti 9jrgft for
cents was trawkjuttpd Srojn Lon
don w the ship Peter, Paul Hu-ffey., mfller,
b.iand sos New York, and has been Jo'ft.-—
Ihe Subfcnber intending 10 apply to the T«rea
fu» yot the red States ro havje .the feme re
newed., dtfiifs a 1 i pcrfoos who ane ic
the said certificate, to make tb.eir
thereto, if any they have.
Francis Macy.
Piiilad. March 17. tf6w
Samuel Coates,
At IxL Store, Mo. 82, fimth Jfront Jlreet,
Bath for sale,
94 Barrels
New England Beef,
i*9 barrels liver
«'5 ban ehs Cider
9 2 boxes of Candle*,
ijoo pair of men's leather {hoes
642 buflnts of Barfey
A quantity of Taw Ltnt-n
Dirto, of New-tngla.'jd Soal. leather
40 bags #| excelUw Cotton
4 boxes of Chocolate
3000 wt. ot Alfpice
too cases of th befl Hulland gin.
Apiil 1 ■ *eod2.w
JVfordecai Lewis,
Has for Sale at his Store, No. 25, Dock-
Street :—
A few Bales ot RiifTu Sheetings,
Barcelona Handkerchiefs in Boxes,
A ba4c of low-pr iced Cot-ton Hmcfekwchiets,
A Quantity'Ot Souchong Tea, and
Tonkay, ditto.
Holland C n in Cases,
A Quantity of Bi imftonr,,
With a Variety of other Goods.
Feb. 20. a\v6w
To be Sold at Public Vtndttt y
On Friday the nthday of April next,
at the horrfe of 'John Tiwmfon, in Perth-
Amb oy,
The Proprietary House
AND LOT OF LAND,
IN TWArr CITY.
*i.ot contains cicvt.ii acres, op which .is
an orchard at,gralted a,ptle tre&s, a well.of
excellent water, a large ilure c Jlern, and a vc.ry
commodious ffai>le anti coach-troufe, and a grrai
qjtanctty of the btfl buikting ft<itics tn the walls
ol tberhoufe, wliicb was formerly .built tor the'
refideoce ot the Governors ol tyew-Jcricy. The
fituaiiori ot ihts Lot is so well known lor Hs
bcalchiitefs and besuirful profpeft oi fheßariton
river to tire welt ot the b»v, and Stfndiy-*Hoak to
the eail,'that a tuitlier,defcjipnon i.sitonecfilary.
The conditions of sale will be, one third ot the
purchase money to be paid on the tirtl day of
May next, wtien a goon and firificient Heed will
be given to thr puieliafcr, by Ru.
TH.EREUKD, tKfq. Prrfident ihe Board of
Proprietors ol tile Eastern DWifiiMJ of New-
Jersey, ana the remaining two thirds fatislafto
rily fecuiod in equal annual payments.
lis cudei of' the Board,
J AMES PARKER,. Rcgitler.
CC/" "This Gazette Jhaille enlarged, as it
rec eives encouragement—The Subscription
encreafes daily—Ad-vertifmg F,avors are
folicited —These coujlitute an ejfential' Item
in diminishing the Debit Jide of the Accouttf.
Foreign Intelligence.
RECJiIVEB fir TH£
BRITISH JANUARY PACKET.
(cqntin^eo.)
COMMONS OF PAJRJS.
Thursday, Dec. 26.
Columbiau read the projed of a Refo
- ! r llt,on > » wti'ch he demanded, that the
Female Citizens who went to Versailles an,
the sth and 6th of October 1789, and
who were prdfent at the fitting, should be
diftinguiftied by a Banner iu public cere
monies.
i' Pacotte Supported the motion, faying,
that they Chewed great energy on that oc
c 5 and that without them, Liberty
would have been loft. [Here the galk
riesmurmured.3
Chaumette observed, that it was not
iurprizing that women displayed heroism
in battle, gnd he mentioned Jeanne Ach
ate, who saved the town of'Beauvais
He added, that it was not only the wo
men who went to Versailles on the'days
mentioned, who contributed to the events
of that time, bnt that ail the Parisians
ftaml in Chat glory. fThe galleries ap
plauded.] He demanded, that their re
quest should be granted, but that they
should not march under the standard but
as employing themselves in knitting, at
tended by their hufhairds and children.
The coimcH rcfolved, that those fe
males fell have place in civit ceremonies,
*nd thit a tranrrer shall be carried before
them bearing on one fide thfe infeription
whidi is on the Arch of Triumph on the.
Boulevards '• i hug ,as a vrle prey they
drove-the tyrants before them ■» and on
t r/? £ . hcr ~" Woruen ' of the £th and 6th
of O&dber."
The Prefidetit read the following letter:
" Bourdeaux, Dec. 20.
" Since my arrival, I have itudied the
public ipirit of the people here : but have
not found one Bourdelais at a revolution
ary pi.tch. Ido not pretend to judgeihe
people ; they are as every where elfe,good
triots, loving Ltherty; Jbut they are hew:
too ignorant to perceive that a" Republi
can government alone suits virtuous men.
Yeftei'day, being the decades, in the
Temple of Reason many hymns were &ing
m honor of liberty & found PHofophy.
1 alifen and Ifabeau pronounced discour
ses Worthy of true Mountaineers ; the 4
few people who were present at this truly
Republican ceremony, made the vault of
the temple resound with these exprcfTions,
so often pronounced by good patriots ,
Vive la Convention ! Vive la Montaigne
Vive les borvs Patriotes de Paris !
" 1 went to the Comedie in the e
vening ; Putriotie scenes only were exhi
bited. Ihe enthusiasm was not the fame
as that of the morning; the verses, the'
molt consonant to the times, were oirly
applauded by a very few. When the pa
triots called encore! the reft of the
house eppofed it, and ftcnes and o hir
things were frequently thrown upon the
llage ; and frequently hifles wer-h ard —
The Mayor was obliged to r q left the
fpedtators to watch the authors of the
eoufiriiou.
" The good republicans complain fliat
they do not receive all the good Journal j
it will be however necessary that th' y
should fee them—for the number of tl.e
drfaffetted is so great, that too much pre
caution catlnot be taken .to
their criminal projects ; as to myfelf be
, ,assured 1 will neglect nothing to enligh
ten my fellow-citizens, and to propagate
the love of (Liberty and Equality.
(Signed)
" MAMEIN, un.
" Defender of the Republic."
Referred this letter to the Committed
of Public Welfare.
LONDON, January 4.
Rear Admiral Macbride is to have the iaiediate command of a squadron deft'med
soT Halifax.
The Rrench fleet, confi fling of 17 ships, I
certainly failed from Brell water, on t the 26th
ult. and dire&ed their course 'to the -westward
—Of this moll injptfrtant fail, mmifters re
ceived accounts on Thursday lall.
The expedition to the coail of France, is,
we believe, entirely abandoned. The French
havfc 80,000 men in cantonments between
Cherbourg and St. Maloes ; and our equip
ments, from some unfortunate delays,appear
to be perfedlly known in France. Paris pa
pers have meijt.oncd them for some time
pail.
ACongrefs of deputies from the Allied
Powers is Hill talked of to afTemble at Frank
fort Upon the affair* of France. A day of
thanksgiving has been ordered at Vienna for
the many iignal victories obtained over the
French campaign.
LEYDEN, Dec. 30.
An address has been presented to the
Convention by the Lyonefe, in which that
wretched people complain of the horrors
which the representatives commit daily in
that city, especially the emiilaries of the
Jacobins, the fev<;n monsters who compose
the ci-devant revolutionary commiilion.
, " Scarcely is judgment pronounced,
(fay the unhappy Lybnefe,) when those
who have been condemned are exposed in
a mass to the fire of cannon, loaded with
grape-ftiot; they fall one upon another,
struck with the thunder ; and often muti
lated, they have the misfortune not to be
killed by the firft difeharge. The victims
wbo yet breathe, after having fuffei ed that
p.unifhment, are finiihed by sabres or muf
quetry."
The representatives have substituted
for the two revolutionary tribunals which
tjiey,had created, a committee of seven
judges. Thi» measure was indispensable.
The two tribunals, embarrafled by forms,
did not answer the wifties of the people :
Prisoners accumulated in the prisons : Par
tial executions had loft all effect upon the
Lyonefe. The committee of seven, judg
es in afummary manned; and its sentence
is as just as it is sudden.
On the 14th December 60 villains were
shot to death. On the ,15th, 208. On
the 17th, 60 were acquitted. On the
iß:h, 68 were shot, and 8 guillotined.
On the 19th, the holy and miraculous
gnillotine made 13 the head (horter. On
the 20th, 50 were set at libei ty. On the
21 ft, £3 were (hot.
Soon the guilty at Lyons will no long
er pollute the foil of Liberty ! We find
daily gold and silver, coined and not coin
ed. The quantity willaftoniih you when
you hear it.
BOURDEAUX, Dec. 20.
The milittry commission proceeds in a
revolutionary manner : The heads of con
spirators fall on the fcaffold—the fufpefted
are (hut up till peace shall be concluded—
and the moderate, the indifferent, and ego
tists, are punished by the purse.
Lately all the actors of the grand thea
tre, to the number of sixty-eight, were
arretted. It -was a Focus of Arijlocracy—
we have destroyed it. On the evening
before; the theatre was surrounded, when
there were upwards of 2000 persons in
it ; and all fufpefted persons who were
reunited in great numbers, were impri
soned; the fame night 200 capital mer
chants were arretted, and seals put on their
papers—and the military commifiion will
soon do them justice.
The guillotine, and gCeat fines, will
purify the merchants, and will extermi
nate the monopolizers and money-chang
ers.
Reason, makes here a great progress;
all the churches have been (hut; plate ar
rives in great plenty at the mint, and on
the Decades we (hall celebrate the feaft of
Liberty. The forced loan succeeds ra
pidly, 250,000 livres were yesterday pour
ed into the receiver's chett. Bourdeaux
will contribute more than one hundred
millions to the Republic.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
December, 24.
Thomas Paine, and dll Foreigners, expelled
from the Convention.
Barrere—" The moment is come to make
known a vice which has introduced itfelf a
mong us. The People have been persuaded
that they might choose Foreigners to re
present them ; but a single fadt shall prove
now dangerous such a measure would be.
" An Italian came with some patriotie
Works: His ambition Wanted a Decree
which granted him the title of a French
Citizen ; he urged that title,' becnufe his
property had been confifcated on account
of his writings in his own country. Well !
we learn, that tills property has just been
restored. Let us decree, that all foreign
ers fTiall be excluded from the National
Convention."
Bourdon of Oife—" Since there are
no more Briffotihes in the Convention,
Thomas Paine, never came once among
us: He is busy with carrying on his in
trigues secretly."
The propolal of Barrcre betng put to
the votf, was unanimously adopted in
these words:
" Every Foreigner is, and Jhall be, it
eluded from the National Reprefe,.tatien."
Congrejs of the U>
tfouje of Rijirefeniali'oes *"■ *'
The observations of Mr. Smith oi South-
Carolina, on the palling of tilt bill for
the naval armament.
( Concludal.)
Mr. S. next reviewed the principal ob- !
jc&ions to the bill, he said—x it. That j
the force contemplated was incompetent.
2d. That fending an armed force on the
ocean would be the means of involving us
in a war with some of the maritime pow
ers. 3. That we had no friendly ports in
Europe, which our frigates could resort
to for supplies or reritment. 4_th. That
the expence would exceed the object to be
protected. 5. That our trade would be
deprived of the ieamen required to man
the frigates. 6. That it was now so late
in the season we could not protect our ves
sels the ensuing summer, and that some
favorable events might occur before the
frigates could be equipped, which would
render them unnecessary. 7. That this
was the beginning of a naval establish
ment, which would hereafter involve this
country in iramenfe debts and maritime
wars.
1 ft. To the firit obje&ion Mr. Smith
replied that he was surprised those gentlemen
who deemed the nu<'.X/cr of frigates ina
dequate to the object had never proposed
to encreafe the quantum of force ; though
this objection had been re-echoed by seve
ral gentlemen, none of them had thought
proper to move an augmentation of th?
Itrength ; the only motion of that nature,
had proceeded from a quarter which had
been always friendly to the measure.
From the documents on the table, and
from the diligent enquiries of a^large
committee, the force contemplated by the
bill, did however, appear adequate ; the
number, and strength of the Algerine
corsairs had been pretty nearly ascertained:
it had been ilated from good authority,
that their vessels were (light, and that
they did not cruize in fleets, but feattered
for the purpose of plunder. It also ap
peared that a smaller force than ours, had
been fuccefsfully employed by Portugal,
in blocking up the Streights.
2d. The second objection arose, from
the danger of being involved in a war.
It had been said, that some of the mari
time powers, whose interest it was, that
our commerce (hould fuffer frprn thele
piratical depredations, would fee with
difpleafurc, our armed ve(Tels on the oce
an ; and would insult them ; that our of
ficers would resent such insults, and thus
draw us into a war. If there were any
nation so anxious to go to war with us,
as this objection supposed, they would be
at no loss for pretexts, without this ; if
while we were exercising so just, lawful
and necessary a right, as that of ufingthe
only means in our power, 01 protecting
our commerce from ruin, and our fellow
citizens, from a most dreadful captivity,
any nation (hould wickedly and wantonly
interfere, and moled our frigates, it would
(hew such a disposition to quarrel with us,
and be such an ast of hottility, as would
juftify war on our part. Whatever nation
it might be, he (hould view such an ag
greflion as the effect of predetermined
hostility, and (hould not hesitate a moment
to consider them as much our enemies, as
the Algerines themselves. But this arma
ment would furni(h so little pretence for
any danger of this kind, that he viewed
all such terrors as chimerical; indeed it
was somewhat strange, that these appre
hensions (hould have been suggested by
gentlemen, who considered commercial
reftriftions particularly directed at Great
Britain, as of a most pacific tendency.
If irritating measures, pointedly direc
ted at Great Britain, were not likely to
excite a hostile fplrit in l)er, much less
was it to be expected that measures of un
avoidable necessity, against the Algenn
piraies, would excite ibat fpir.t.
3 d. It had been clearly sheWn, that
there were many Convenient friendly poi ts,
to which our veflels of war, wottld ha»e
accels. Spain, Portugal and trance,
had been mentioned ; it was not probable,
we lhould be at war with all thole powers,
at the fame time. Being at peace with
them all, we had a right W expect a
friendly admission into their ports. A
state of war would undoubtedly, prelent
many difficulties, but even in that event,
the proposed measure, did not appear lels
indilpenfable.
4th. The expcnce had been strongly
urged, as a weighty objection. Mi.
Smith ohferved, that the laving in inf-.ir
anee, the value of our ships and cargoes,
the ran Com ot out captive seamen, was
more than an offset against this item.
But was not the slavery ot" our fellow-citi
zens, the national disgrace resulting from
it, to be taken into the account ? These
were in his mind, goufederations, beyond
all calculation. Who could, after read
ing the affecting narratives of Captain
| Penrofe and the other unfortunates, lit
< down contented with cold calculations,
! and dry syllogisms? These nairatives onght
j to e:;cite every possible exertion, not oniy
j to procure the release of the captured,
but to preveut an encreafe of the number
of these unhappy victims. This could
only be effedted by the proposed measure ;
it was the only practicable mode ot ob
taining a peace, which would ensure the
release of the captives, and of preventing
the capture of others. Were the expence
thereof double the sum proposed, he, for
one, would not hesitate to vote for it.
sth. It had been alledged, that depriving
our merchant vefiels of the fearpen requisite
to man the frigates, would be a serious inju
ry to oir trade. No further answer was
neceflary to this objection, than barely to re
mark, that the injury was not to be out in
competition with the less of teamen, by sla
very in Algiers, or by desertion from mer
chant ships, so unprotected and so exposed.
6th. The lateness of the season, had fur
niihed another objection. Mr. Smith asked,
whose fault it was, that this measure had not
been adopted sooner > The members whose
opinions coincided with his, and himfelt had
urged the necessity of it, near three months
ago, but the opposition it had
encountered, and the intervention arid dis
cussion of the commercial rtgnlations, nai
protracted it to the present period. Late as
it was, it was however highly neceflary, and
the best expedient which had been suggested.
The very circumftanee of preparation for
naval defence, would facilitate our pegocia
tion for peace, and would encourage our sea
men to remain in our service.
States.
He wiihed it always to be understood,
that he did not rely solely on the . kacy of
this armament; he it'll looked forward to
a negociation, and was ready to provide the
mod ample means for that purpoie, but he
-was at the fame time fatisiied, triat the tirft
measure mult accompany the latter, as the
one would be nugatory, without the other.
7th. The dangers refaitiag from a large
navy eftabiilhment, and the immense debts
they have created in other countries, had been
depicfted a»d the House had been warned
against such evils. -How a bill, providing fix
frigates, which were to exist only during the
war with Algiers, could excite an yiprelien
fion of a large and permanent navy, and an
enormous debt, Mr. Smith said he ;was at a
loss to discover. The clause which autho
rized the President, in the event of a peace
with the Regency of Algiers, to discontinue
the armament, was a complete answer to all
reasoning which had been indulged on the
fubjeft of navies and debts. Adrafttting
there had been no such clause, he' did not
feel the weight or applicability of the reason
ing. This country was peculiarly fitted for
a navy; abounding in all kinds of naval
resources, wc had within ourselves those
means which other maritime nations were
obliged to obtain from abroad. The nature
of our situation, and the navigating difpofi
tiou of a considerable proportion of our citi
zens, evinced ft'ill more the propriety of some
naval establishment. Perhaps t+ie country was
not yet mature for such an eftabiilhrnent, to
any great extent, but he belt?ved the period
was not far distant when it would. Sweden,
with a population not greater than that of
the United States, and with more (lender re
sources, maintained a large navy ; he saw r.o
reason why the United States with an irrcrea
iing population, much individual wraith, and
considerable national resources, might not
without ruin, do as mueh, or why the ebtiin
ment of a Iquadron, infer or to that of any
of the petty nations of Italy, Ihould involve
us-in an insupportable e.xpenee.
Having replied to the principal obieition*
ajjaiqft the bill, Mr. Smith said, though hedul
Hot any arguments of that day,
WQitld change a linglc vote, yet as a fa-mid
and lengthy cppjfition had h;-en made, he
wished to Qi"w, that he did not rely upcm a
majority, and that "he would never <jive his
alfent to a ineaiitre, -which did not in his
opinion, reft on the balls of good peltry airi
propriety. 1
He viewed this mcafure as retting on that
bails ; he trusted it would produce ths goud
effeiits which its Meads anticipated, and tha-.
as he was confident it would be supported by
a majority of that Houle, he had little dou'tf,
that k would be fin<Jiione<i by the approba -
tion of their constituents | but that even wefe
he periuaded it would be attended with iome
1 of the mifchiefs which its opponents had
predicted, he /hould still desm himfelf war
ranted, in supporting it as a thing irreiiftaj.-!/
and loudly called for by the urgency of ex
ilting circumstances.
Apri! 4.
The, following meflage was received
from the President.
United States, 4th April, 1794.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
of the House of Reprefentativeo.
I lay before.you three fetters from our
Minister in London; advices concerning
the Algerine in flion, from out Minister
at Lisbon and others, and a letter from
the Minister Plenipotentiary of the French
to the Secretary of State, with
his answer.
Go. WASHINGTON.
Mr.
P TNCKNEr's CO aRESPONDENCE.
London, 26th December, 1794.
Dear Sir,
This icrves to cover an additional * in
ftrudl.'on, which, though dated the 6th
of Nuvembei, was made public at the Ad
miralty, bat a few day# ago. I only re
ceived it from aur prodtor lalt evening.
I am, with fmcere refpeft, dear Sir,
Your faithful and obedient Servant,
Thomaj Pinckney.
Secretary of State,
I mention the circumstance of dates,
because it appear? to me of some import
ance.
£ * This r jje have already printcd.~\
London, 2d January, 1794.
Dear SIR
• J
At the moment when I was preparing
to go to the conference with Lord Grcn
ville, this morning,'! received a note from
him,' excusing himielf from the meeting.
1 then endeavored to fee Mr. Burgee, but
•without success; and as this is the last
hour for writing by the Packet, I must
fend the enclosed additional inltruction,
without explanation obtain from the mi
-adiry.. Tut lXii'lti Miiiiitcr in sick, and
at Bath ; but the Swedilh Minister ap
pears to be alarmed at this measure, a«, I
am informed, the mercantile interest, con
nected with America appear to be, from"
a committee of theirs having watted on
Mr. Pitt. Upon this inftru&ion, as it
(lands, it is unneceflary for me to make
any comment. If a repeal or modification
of it (hould take place, or if I can obtain
the principles, upon which this govern
ment has iflued it, I will immediately
communicate.
Toulon is again poflefled by the French
Republic : We have not the particular*.
I remain, with sincere rclpeit,
Dear Sir;
Your faithful and obedient Servant,
ThCmas Pjscese*.
The Secretary of State.
f Duplicate.)
London, January 9, 1794-
My Dear Sir,
You will receive herewith the copy of
an inftru&ion to the commanders of big
Britannic Majesty's sHips of war, &c. da
ted the Bth of this month, concerning
which I had another cotiveHation this
morning with the rnitiiller of the foreign
department. On hw faying in the intro
duction of the fubjeit, that he hoped I
saw in it a manifeitatton of the good wilt
of thi'3 government towards the United
States ; I observed, that it was certainly
much left injurious to iwth;tn the inftruc
tioq which it revoked, and might be as
favorable as the principle upon which this
government acts would admit ; but I re
minded him that our idea* di&red materi
ally from theirs on this fabjeft, and with •
out repeating she arguments I had before
adJrelTed to him, both vsrfcatly and ii»
writing in fuppoi tof our position, it was
only ncceflary to fay tost we did not ad
mit the right of the belligerent powers to
interfere farther in the commerce between
neutral nations and thsir adverforrc-s, than
to prevent their carrying to them articL'S
which by common usage weretilabJi(bed
as contraband, and any article* u) a place
fairly blockaded that cefiftqamtfy the
two firit articles, though founded upon
their principles of not {-iffmn-r in war-, a
traffic which was not admittai fey the fame
nations in the time of peace, zndoftukitff
their enemies property u'h>~is found 01.
V-, •f
board of neutral vessels, were nevertheless
contrary to what we contended to be the
iuft principles of the modern laws of na
tions ; that indeed I had some doubt ol
the fir ft article, being altogether support
ed by their own principle ; but fuppoiing
that article as well as the reft, to be con
sonant to their former usage, I wiihed to
know whether their present re-pubUcation,
imported afly thing more than was before
praftifed. Lord Grenville answered that
the only reason for renewing them was,
left the present instruction being a revoca
tion of that of the 6th of November,
mio-ht also be deemed to revoke these arti
cles which were connected with it. His,
lord-hip then explained the motives which
bad induced this government to lihie : the
prelent inttruftion. The hrft, he laid,
was the fineere desire of admi.uftration, to
maintain the best undemanding and har
mony with the United States; the second
was, what he could not mention to me of
ficially, but what he still thought it right
I (hould be apprised of, that no miscon
ception of, their motives might be enter
tained, that he was aware of the delicacy
ef speaking to a foreign minister concern
ing the internal ftatc of his country, nei
ther could he expect an answer from me
on the fubjeft, but that their fecontFrea
fon was by their conduct, to take away
*very pretext from evil disposed persons
among us, \Vho, according to the intelli
gence he had received, Were endeavoring
to irritate our people against Gieat Bri
tain, as well as to oppose the measures of
*oifr own government, and in short, to re
duce us to the present situation of France,
a misfortune which they deprecated as well
for our fakes as for the common welfare
and tranquility of mankind. He further
rook occafron to observe with refpeft to
the conduct of our government in main
taining our neutrality, that although there
were some matters with which this go
vernment was not perfectly fatisfied (and
to w'hich for the fame reason they refrained
torn giving that opposition they thought
rhey would be jufliiied in doing) yet from
the general tenor of the conduct of our
government, they were convinced it was
their desire to maintain a fair neutrality,
which was an additional motive for their
present conduct.
I of Course said nothing of our inter
03d.affairs -nor of tfioic of Fiance.' i as
sured him however that our government
had been perfectly fine ere in every mea
fijre relating to our neutrality ; that they
adopted it from a conviction that it was
both just and politic and had pursued it
according to what s they conceived to be
ju!t principles, knowing that such conduct
could entitle 11s to the benefits to be deri
ved from a neutral situation. I concluded
by a/king what explanation could be given
to what was passed in this business ; and
of the effect of the inftruttionof tba 6th
of May upon such vessels as might
during the two months it had been in
force have fallen into the hands of their
enemies ? Lord Grenville answered, that
the order of the 6th of Nov. was intend
ed to be temporary and calculated to an
swer two purpefes, one was to prevent
the abuses which might take place in con
sequence of the whole of the St. Domin
go fl.et having gone to the United States;
the other was on account of the attack
defrgned npon the French Weft India
Islands by the armament under Sir John
jervis and Sir Charles Grey ; but that it
was now no longer neceftary to continue
that regulation for those purposes. He
added, that the inftru&ion of the 6th
Nov. only authorized the vessels to be
brought in for legal adjudication, and up
on being told that notwithstanding such
were the terms made use of yet that the
officers who would have" to act under it,
mull conceive it to extend to condemna
tion because otherwise the order was un
fteceffary, as without it they had been au
thorized to bring tp adjudication all such
veilels as they previously deemed liable to
condemnation : He replied that the cafe
of every vessel must be decided by its own
merits, but that he conceived no vessel
would be condemned under that inftruc
tionwhieh wouldnot have been previously
liable to the iame sentence. I informed
Lord Grenville, that I should communi
cate this instrument to you by the packet:
He said he should likewise forward it by
the fame conveyance, and at the fame
time would fend an answer to my memo
rial on the King's inftrudtion of the Bth
ef June to be commuuicated to ycu by
Mr. Hammond.
I remain with sincere refpefl, dear fir,
joitr faithful and obedient servant,
Thomas Pinckney.
The Pod-Office bill was brought in
engrafted, read the third time—the blanks
therein filled—a.id patted to be cna&ed.
UNITED STATES.
SALEM, March 25.
Last week Mr. Samuel Cabot, of Be
verly, arrived from Bourdeaux, by way of
Tobago. He failed, by permiifion, on
the 28th Dec. The embargo was then
continued ; and the National commiflion
ers could give no encouragement of- its
being speedily taken off. It is supposed
that Bourdeaux, would long since have
been given up like Toulon, had the mha
: bitants had the fame opportunity. Their
dipofition being well known, they are
watched by the National Comiuiffioners'
with the utmost Itrichiefs ; and the decrees
of the Convention are executed with un
exampled rigor. All "foreigners at that
place,(except of neutral nations)and many
French, have been confined in prison.
Numbers have been condemned to the
guillotine, by the Revolutionary Tribunal;
and the executions take place immediately
on sentence being palled, whether by day
orfcy night. Vad property isconfifcated.
The rich are obje&s of suspicion. All
plate and specie is demanded in exchange
for affignats, which were at par in that
place. Bread was scarce : and the inha
bitants, rich or poor, on an equal allowance
of half a pound a day. Ihe churches weie
deltroyed, or converted to other and
the bells cad into cannon. Reason and
truth were worlhipped, in the 1 emple of
Liberty. The Sans Culottes were in
high spirits. The men who were between
18 & 25 years of age had been called fois,
and marched sometime ill November, it
was fnid that several thousand Prussians
had deserted to the French, in one body.
Mr. Cabot faw-a company of 69 of tlrem,
which were sent to Bourdeaux. Ameri
cans were treated with much re/pest in
France, and the French "have no desire
that we should be engaged in the war.
PHILADELPHIA,
APRIL 5.
A London paper of January the 6th fays,
There is no truth i* the report of Adthiral
Kingfmill having taken a French ihip, as
stated in our paper of Saturday Evening, in
consequence of erroneous information receiv
ed from Ireland by the Mail of that morn
ing. This report probably originated from
the Argonaut, one of the ships taken from
the French by Admiral Rodney, on the i?,th
of April, and then called the Jason, being
now part of admiral Kingfmill's squadron.
Extract of a letter from the Captain of an
American vefft-1, lately carried into Do
minica.
" We are in very great didrefs, occa
fiorjed by our detention, and the perishing
condition of our cargoes from the heat of
this climate—but above all a violent sick
ness rages in our little fleet, „ id Jo frequent
are the deaths, that our mourning flags
are constantly hoisted* and as all the mo
ney found on board when captured, is tak
en away, we are thereby rendered incapa
ble of procuring that medical and other
aflidance for our sick brethren, which hu
manity didlates they (hould have. We
yellerday handed in a petition to the. go
vernor, setting forth the deplorable fttua
: tion we are in with regard to the sick :
He has given us his word that he will in
-1 terfere in the business, and this we expect*
: he will do, conlidering that the health of
the inhabitants very much depends upon
t it."
J ' Proposals are ifllied by Mr. John Buel,
printer, and Mr. E. Tifdale, engraver, (of
the city of New-York,) for printing by
fubfeription, a new and elegant edition of
M'FINGAL, an Epic Poem, in Four Cantos,
1 by, J. Trumbull, Esq. illustrated with
> additional notes and explanations and orna
mented with nine copper plates.—The work
! will comprise 140 octavo pages—To be de
| livered to fubferibers in four separate num
bers, each confiding of one Canto, (ditched
' in-blue) and two plates, with the addition of
a handiome IJrontifpiece to the firft number
I —The price to fubferibers One Quarter of
a Dollar each number, payable on delivery.
By this Day's Mail.
NEW-YORK, April 4.
SHIP NEWS.
Arrivals at this Port.
Brig Aurora, France*- Liverpool, 10? days
1
>
Brig Mary, Hopper, • > Wilmington
Iph%enia, Rutger, Cuirocoa
Sloop Ranger, Dunn, Philadelphia
Capt. Brifcoe France, of the brig Aurora,
on the nth of January, spoke the (hip Jane,
of Philadelphia,abound to Hamburgh, out
15 days, all well, lat. 47, long. 31.
On the 14th February, spoke a brig from
Havre-dfc-Grace, bound to Rhode-liland,'lat.
36i long. si.
Oir the 16th March, spoke the Mares, of
London, from Jamaica, bound to London,
George King, matter, lat. 39, long. 61. who
hoisted out his boat and brought us a calk of
wa'er, and fomc other necefiaries.
The Indian Trader, Edwards, from -Que
bec to Loildon, arrived at Deal, Dec. 17.
The Ann and Susan, arrived at Grenock,
in 32 days from Virginia.
The brig Prosper, Tylee, failed on the
fame day with Capt. Rutger, for Bonaire ;
an embargo was to take place next day. The
brig Friend (hip, HafF, had failed two days
before.
PORT OF PHILADELPHIA.
ARRIVED.
Brig Charlotte, Hughes, St. Thomas's
Sloop Willing Lais, Bell, Virginia
Richmond, Bloch, Richmond
Schooner Alice, Weymouth, Virginia
Pidgeon, Milner, do.
Ann, Jackson, do.
Polly, Mahon, Norfolk
Harriot, Roberts, Virginia"
Sloop Betsey, Hopkins, do.
Richm 'nd Packet, Petters, Richmond
Polly, Greeves, Virginia
CLEARED.
Schooner Experiment, Carter, Charleston
Delight Cutler, Bolton
Sloop Abigail, Smith, New-York
John, Mary, do.
Eagle, Gilman, New-York
Fly, Collins, Baltimore
Captain Hughes of the Brig Char
lotte in [5 days from Saint Thomas,
info;rtis, that he left there about 12 fail of
American vefltls, amongfl: which are the
Schooners Harden, New-York, and
Pierfon, Boston. Brigs. Lind
fay, Wells, and Eunice, Sollelter, New-
Yurk. The remainder of the names un
known.
■Capt. Sollefter failed from Jamaica 3
weeks before Capt. Hwgh-es left St. Tho
mas's, as also Capt. Pierfon of Boston.
Capt. Hughes further informs that pre
vious to his failing from St. Thomas's, ac
counts were received there from St. Croix,
which mentioned* that about 40 fail of
American veflels were there, all preparing
to fail for their respective ports.
Extracft from Loyd s Lift, of Jan'. 10.
Arrived at Gravefcnd. Major Pinckney,
from Charleston ; Helen, Patterfun,
Virginia ; Betsey, Chace, Baltimore ; Peggy,
Lunt, Maryland.
'At Falmouth. Chefterfield, Pac, New-
York ; Mary, Tekombe, Virginia; John,
Homans, Savannah ; Mary, Prrfel, Virginia;
Mary, Haley, New-York ; Portland Packet,
, Halifax.
At Portsmouth. Minerva, Scott, Boston j
Debby, Lovel, America.
At Deal. Rainbow, Hollidav, Charleston;
Hearts of Oak, Holliday, do. Betsey, Chace,
Maryland.
At Liverpool. Fame, Davis. Virginia.
At Plymouth. Sally, lluckey, Portsmouth;
Virginia, Buts, Virginia; Industry, Budd,do.
At Clyde. John and Jean, Skuki'ord, New-
York j Ann and Susan, Duplefe, Virginia.
At Dover. Lydia, Tobey, Charleston;
Mary, Cunningham, Boston.
At Whitehaven. Union, Reynold, New-
York.
At Bristol. Serrin, Farley, New-York.
At Gibraltar. Sally, Chapman, Boston.
At Dublin. Eliza, Barr, Virginia ; Sally,
Nichols, Boston.
At Cork. Mary, Gardner, Virginia ; Mol
ly, Clark, ditto ; Hope, Howland, Boston ;
Winsfried, , North-Carolina.
At Elfineure. , Warner, New-York.
At Galway. Union, Snow, Virginia.
At Limerick. Lucretia, Afelby, Virginia.
At Cropk Haven. Mary, Groves Virginia.
At Cadiz. Lavinia, C 'dman, Virginia;
. Aurora, Smith, ditto. William, Foster, ditto.
Hope, Tielas. do. Hull Packet, Lawrence,
New-York.
At Amsterdam. Portland, Robinson, N.
York ; Four Brothers,Jon?s, Charleston.
At Rotterdam. President, Smith, Mary
i land ; Sally, Clark, do.
At Oftend. General Wafh'mgton, Beg
land, Charleston.
At Oporto. Amelia, Spencer, N. York ;
Catharine, Goodhue, Virginia-.
At Leghorn. Nordenfalk, Kihohn, New-
York.
At Bombay. China. America, , New-
York ; Wafnington, , do. Friends, Pare!,
Virginia.
The Amsterdam Packet, Waddel, from
to Havre-de-Grace, is taken and
carried intg Liverpool, by the Princess Eli
zabeth privateer.
The Harriot, M'Leod, from Bristol to
New-York, is 101 l oif Newfoundland—the
people saved.
The Patfey, Huntington, from Liverpool,
to New-fork, is returned to Liverpool after
being out fix weeks.
The Orono, Ihinbar, from Liverpqol to
Virginia, foundered at lea.
FOR SALE,
BY THE SUBSCRIBER,
Old Lisbon Wine of a
flip rior quality in pipes, imported in the (li p
Wil llington.
OI.D SHERRY WINE of the firft quality
in quarter calks, imported in the brig Nancy
capt. G\Vin. fr, in Cadiz.
SHELLED ALMONDS and a few kegs of*
RAISINS, imported iii dltio.
Particular TEN£RIFFH WINES,in pipes
hlids. and qu irrer calk , imported in the ihip
Tnomas, capt. Skinner.
A tew quarter talks of old particular bill
of exchange MADEIRA WINE.
George Meade T
Who has also, just arrived and for sale,
A SMALL CARGO OF
Lijb on Salt.
A quantify of empty BAGS foi faJe.
April 5. Hnv w&rsim.
WANTED
A Servant,
T O wait on h single G ntlemanV Enquire
atNi. 165, Chefnut il eet.
■''P 5- d'f
Just Publiflied,
AND TO B £ D BY
THOMAS DOB SON,
At the Stone bouie, No. South second
\ : / Street,
Historical Collections ;
CONstsrlNO OF
STATE PAPERS,
And other authentic Documents, intend d as
materials for an History of ihe Lnitid States
of America.
By EBENEZSR HAZARD, A. to.
11l two large quarto volumes, price ten dol- '
lars in boards. 1
Sublcribe's will be furniihed with the 2"d.
volume on paying three dollat s and a quarter
—having paid four dollars and a quarter on
receiving the firft.
This second volume comprehends, among
other intereftiwg particulars, a complete co
py of the Records of the Unit'd Colonies of
N. England, iq wjiich the conduct of t' e com*
millione.s relpefting tie general concerns of
the colonies—the nrighbouring Indians—and
the Dutch at Manhattans (now NewYotk) is
partxularly detailed.
*,* Materials are cdllefted fufficient to
fouft » THIRD VOLUME, The time of
pub i'h'ng will-dep;nd oil the encouragement
tit be derived from subscriptions which will be
received by Thomas Dobfon, Philadelphia ;
Jeremiah Libbey, Portfmoutb, New Han.p
fhirc; Thomas Andtews, Boston ; Jfaiah
Tlionia , Worcester ; Isaac B.'eri, New-Hav
v .11; Timothy Green, New London ; Jacob
R char-lfjii, Ne mrt ; John Carte:, Provi
de iice j Hugh Tiaitie, Thomas AVei, and
Simuel Campbell, New York; Frederick
C'aig, Delaware; James Rice,
B lit tmore; Mr. Litidiey, Norlolk j David
ilenderfoti, Fredericksburg; Jobn Grammar
P t?rfl)u; g ; AagalHne Davi , Richmond ; }?
X Martin, Newbern, N. C John Bradley,
Wilmington ; and William Price Young,Char
iefton.
4. mm^rf^w
Pennsylvania Hospital,
4th Moo til, Qtll 1794.
The Contributors are desired
to attend the Election, to be held at the
Hospital on the sth day of the sth Month
nex ,at 3 o'clock in the afternoon; to Choose
tA.e ve Managers and a Treasurer, for
tiie enfii ng year:
By Order of a board «f Managers.
■ ■
NEW THEATRE.
THIS EVENING,
April 5.
Will be performed,
A COMIC OPERA, once performed
here, called the
Highland Reel.
(IVritten by the Author of the Poor
Soldier.)
To conclude with a New REEL, (Compo
fedby Mr. Francis,) by the Characters.
To which will be added,
A CcAifdy, in three Ails, called
Catherine &Petruchio,
OR THE
Taming of the Shrew.
Ladies and Gentlemen are requested to
fend their servants to keep places, at half an
hour pall 4 o'clock, and to order them to
withdraw, as soon as the company are seated,
as they cannot on any account be permitted
to reiriaip in the boxes, nor any places kept
after the firft id.The Profits arising from tie foUotving fubli
culwn are fur the benefit of th* Poor.
Just publlfccd, printed by R. Aitken and
Son, and fold by J. Crukihauk, W. Youag
T. Dobfon, and tilt other Bonkfellcrs,
MINUTES
CF THE
Proceedings of the Committee,
Appointed on t<ie 14rU September t?93, by
t"tie Citizens of" Phtladeljibia, die Northern
L berfies, audthe I>irtri<fl of Suutkwark,
to attend to and alleviate the
tot vvi *■ fcl --
valeni, in the
mm.
i ty.
DIJ£,
CONTAINING
A lift of persons adin tted into the Hofpi
al at Bush-hill, {hewing the times of their
idmiiliur, death and discharge.
Number of Hoiifrs,' Deaths, <3cc. in the
re(pe£tive street*, alleys, and < ourts in the
t tyot Bbtladelphia, Noi thorn Liberties, and
District of Southward.
A itii of ihe Int?ment-s in the Burial
grounds in the city of Philadelph'a, Northern
Liberties, and Diftrift of Sou;bwa*k, with a
meteorological account of the weather.
A iumuKi.ry of donations m cufli andprovi
fions, received frcun fun ry perfoni and pla
ce-;, for the yf of tlie poor and afflicted.
April 2. dsw
scheme of a Lottery,
To >aife 39,900 Dollars, on 266,000
Dollars, AaUiSing 15 per Cent, from
the Prizes—ibis Lottery confijls of
33,000 Tickets, in which there are
14,539 Pfines and 23,461 Blanks,
being about one and an half Blanks to a
Prize.
L>nc"&orsof <h- Society for eflabliihing
y jL UJ'.-tiri Manufa&urcs, havihg resolved to
erett LOTTERIES Fo» raising One Hundred
TriousAN'D Dollars, 10 an A£t of
the LtgifUture of rbt State of New-Jersey, have
appointed the following persons to superintend
and drreft the drawing of the fune, vig t N'cho
ias Low, Rufus King, Herman Le Roy, Jrmcs
Watson, Richard ttarrtfon, Abijah Ha;nm6od,
and Cornelius Rjy, of ihe city ok Now-Yoik—
Thomas Willing, J>feph Ball, Matthew M'Con
nci and Andrew Bayard, of the city of Phila
delphia— His Excellencv Richard Howi-11, Efq,
Klias Bouchnot, Geneial El as Dayton, Jam j
Parker, Johu Bayard, D >£t.»r Lewis
Samuel W. Stockton, Joihua M. Wallace, Jofepfc
Bioomfield, and Eliiba Boudinot, of N(w-Jcr.
fe*v, who offe» the following Scheme of a Lot
eery, and pledge themf ivis 10 the public, that
they will take every DlTur.ince and precaution ir
their power to have the Monies paid by the
Managers, from time to time, as received, intc
the Batiks at New-Yoikand Philadelphia, tr
remain tor thepuipofeof p«vina iS, wnicl
ihdii i>e immediately discharged by a checi
n-pon one. of tbe Banjts.
SCHEME:
1 JPrize of 20,000 Dv»l.ars is 20,99*
1 1,0,009 9 ao,oci
10, OQ'
5 2, 000 *o,oo<
10 I,COO io,oo<
5
100
50
20
t 5
12
■49 -
*w»,'
'*$64 *' •
*ows,*
t* r
-.V?£v
14-539 Pjizes.
23.461 ttlauks. First drawn number, 2,000
La ft draw u number, 2,000
35,00q Tickets at 7 Dollars each is 266,000
The drawuig will commence, under the in
fpc&i<«a of a Committee of the Superintcpuants,
as feoß as the Ticket are fold,ot which timely
notice will be given.
The Supenntcndants have appointed John N.
Camming, of Newark, Jacob R. Hafdenbcrg,
of New-ftiunfwick, and Jonathan Rhea, ol
Trenton, as immediate Ma/iagers theteof, who
have given ample security' for discharging the
frruft reposed in them.
(£3T In order to fecurethe pun&ual payment
of the Prizes, the Superiin-endants of the Lottery
have dirctlcd that the Managers (hall each ewer
into bonds in 40,000 dollars, with four fufftcicnt
(ecuruus, toperfoim their infti anions, the iub
ftanceof which is
I. That whenever either of the Managers
fliiH receive the sum of Three Hundred Dollars,
he (hall immdiaiely place the fame in oue of the
Banks of New-York or Philadelphia, to the
cicdit of the Governor of the Society, and such
of the Superinrendartts as live in the city where
the monies are placed, to remain there until the
Lottery is drawn, for the payment of the Prizes.
11. The Managers to take fufticient security
foi any Tickets they may trust, otherwise to be
re (0011 fib I e for them.
111. To keep regular books of Tickets fold,
Moines received and paid into the Bank, ab
fl/a&s of which shall be sent, monthly, to the
Governor of the Society.
Paterfon, January i, 1794.
On application to either of the gentle,
men, information will be given where tickets
he had.
F bruary 24. tu&ftf.
INFORMATION"
Is I^equefted
By the Edi'.or, ol a Mr. Willi»m Kilion, a
Brick Layer, who went from New-England,
and was at Philadelphia id Augufl, ; 793
since which time nothing has been heard of
him—Great relief will be afforded to his aged
parents and friends, by any intelligence con
cerning him *-as they are fearful that he has
fallen in the late general calamity.
March 2-2.
Philadelphia, Marchi, 1794.
JUST PUBLISHED,
B/ MATHEW CAREY,'
No. 118, Market Jlreet,
■THE FXIiST VOLUME OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF-
Modern Geography : c
OR. A r
Geographical, Hijlorical, atid [
Commercial Grammar-, a
And prefenr state of the feverai
NATIONS OF THE WORLD. , •
CON TAININC, {
1. The figures, motions, and distances of |
tlie flatlets, acco.ding to rUe Newtonian fyf- j
tem and the latest observations.
2. A general view of the earth, coirfidered
asaplanetj with f?veral ufeful geographical j
definitions and problems.
3. The g a\d divisions of the globe into
land and water, continent* and >flauds.
4« The situation and extent of empires,
kingdoms, ttates, provinces and colonies.
5- Their climates, air, foil, vegetables,
productions, ihetah, minerals, natural curi
osities, seas, rivers, bays,capes, promontories,
aud lakes.
6. The birds and beasts peculiar tp each
country.
7. Observations on the Changes that have
been any where obferred up»n the face of nat
since the molt eaijy periods of history.
8. The history and origin of nations; then ;
forms of government, religion, laws, reve- ;
nues, taxes, naval and militiny strength. <
9. Thegbnius, inanneis, customs, and ha- I
bits of the people. I
10. Their language, learniu£,arts,fciences, i
manufactures, and commerce. '
11. The chief cities, ilru&ures, ruins, and
artificial curiosities
12. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and
distances of principal places from Philadelphia.
To which are *ddcd'.
1. A Geographical Index, with the names
and places alphabetically arranged*
2. A Table of the Corws'of all nations, and
their value in dollars and cents.
J. A Chronological Table of remarkable
events, from the creation to theprefent time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIJ?, $fq.
The Agronomical Part corrected by
Dr. RittSnhouse.
To which have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. Hersc hell,
and other eminent Astronomers.
The FIRST AMERICAN EDITION,
Corrcfted, Improved, and greatly Enlarged.
The firft volume contains twenty-one Maps
and Charts, beiides two Agronomical Plates,
viz. *
1. Map of the world. 2. Chart of the worl .
3. Europe. 4. Alia. 5. Africa. 6. South-
America. 7. Cook's dilcoveiies. 8. Coun
tries round the north Pole. 9. Sweden, Den
mark, and Norway, so. Seven United Pro
vinces. 11 Audrian, French and Dutch Ne
therlands. 12. Germany. 13. Seat of war
in Fra ice. 14.'France divided into depart
ments. 15. Switzerland. :6. Italy, Sicily,
and Sardinra. 17. Spain and Portugal.
18. Turkey irt Europe and Hungary. 19. Ire
land. 20. Weft-Indies. 2i.Verw«nt. 22. Ar
nica ry (phe re. 23. Copernican system.
With the second volume, which is now in
the press, will be given the following Maps :
1. Russia in Europe and Alia.
2. Scotland.
I<\oOC|
Iff',oo<t
y.ooo'
2n,a00
' jojaoo
' 38.000
,■ 81,000
3- England and Wales.
4. Poland.
5. China.
6. Hindoftan.
262,000
■j. United States.
8- Britiih America.
g. State of New-Hampftiire.
jO. State of Massachusetts.
i'i. State of Cowiefticut.
j2. State of Rhode Island.
,3- State of New-York.
i - State of New-Jersey.
j 5. State of Penufylvaiiia.
16. State of Delaware.
17. Stata of Maryland.
18. State of Virginia.
19. State of Kentucky.
23. State of North.Carolina.
21. TenneflVe Government.
22. State of South-Caroiipa.
23. State of Georgia.
Terms.
1. This work will be comprised in two vo-
lumes. (
2. Subscribers pay for the present volume on
delivery, fix dollars, and the price of bind
ing, (56 cents for boards.)
3. They may receive the fucrepding volume
in twenty-four weekly numbers, at a quar
ter dollar each, or else, when finifhed, at
the fame price as the fir ft.
4. The subscription will be raised on the firft
day of June 1794, to fourteen dollars, ex
citative of binding.
5. Should any copies remain for sale after the
completion of the work, they will be fold at
sixteen dollars, and the price of binding.
6. The names of the fublcribers will be pub
lifhedas patrons of American literature,
arts, and sciences.
It is wholly unnecessary to expatiate on the
advantage,to American readers, that this edi
tion possesses, over every imported edition of
any system of Geography extant. The addit
tion of maps of the several state , procured a
a very great espenfe, and from the best ma
terials that are attaiuable, speaks such full
conviction on this fubjeft, that it would be
difrefpoft to the reader's understanding to
suppose it requisite to enter into a detail of
arguments to prove its superiority. In no
limilar work have such maps beenever intro
duced.
The emendations and additions which are
made in this work,are innumerable, and occuj
in every page. The public are referred to
the preface for a flight flcetch of a few oi
them.
The publisher takes the present oppo'tu
nity of returning his most lincere thanks to
tnofe refp &able characters who have favored
him with documents for improving the maps
of several of the states. -He requests a conti
nu3nce of their kiudnefs» and hopes that such
public spirited citizens, as are polfeifed of si
milar documents, will favor him with their
affiihmce in perfecting his undertaking.
The extraordinary encouragement with
which he has been favored, has excited
in-hit breast the warmest featiraents of grati
tude—sentiments which time vyill not efface.
He pledges himfelf to the citizens of the
United States, to fp*re neither pains nor ex
penfe to render the present edition of Guthrie s
Geography hnproved, deierving of their pa
tronage. waftf
PROPOSALS
FOR PUBLISHING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
A Ground Plan
OF THE
City Philadelphia,
AND ITS £NriRONS:
Taken from a&ual survey, by A. P. Fo lie,
Geographer, from St. Domingo.
THIS Plan will be engraved on a plate 26 ,
inches square ; and it will contain in ex
a6k description of all the squares, ftroets and
alleys in the City and Liberties. The fituaiion
of the several public buildings, such aslhe State-
House, City-Hall, Seat of Congress, Churches, J
and Semina
ries of Learning—of the several Banks, and ot
the Fedeial and State Oflifes, will be afcertaiaed. :
The parts which are built on will be diftinguifli- 1
ed fiom those that are not. Thecouries of the 1
rivulet* between Delaware and Schuylkill, and
as much of the Canal, intended to connect the '
navigation ot those two waters, as Ijes within t
the compass of the draught, will be accurately t
delineated. It will also be ornamented by a
view of the Chipping in'he harbor, and an ele- 1
vation of Congress-Hall, and 0/ the other public I
buildings that occupy the ground contiguous. j
In short, nothing will be omitted to render this
ufeful and desirable work acceptable to an en- ,
lightened public, that is in the author's power : ,
and it (hall be compleated with the greatest
poflible dispatch, asfoon as the generous encon- j
ragement of subscribers fhal! insure to the author
such a sum as will be fufficicnt to defray ex
pences.
A Pamphlet will be delivered with each
Plan, which will oontain an alphabetical lift of
the Subscribers names, and information con
cerning the police, population and present state •
of the city.
The prise to fiibfcribcs wilt be Two Dollars
and one third, to be paid at the time of deliver
ing the Plans.
Subscriptions will be gra-tt-fjUly -»t
the principal Rookfellexs iu this city—aod the
original Draft may be seen at B. Da vies',
No. 68, Market-street, at any time Qntil it (hall
be put rnto the hauds of the Engraver.
Feb. 28. m&thtf
JUST PUBLISHED,
AND FQR SALS BY
M.Carey,No. z i
The PROMPTER;
Commentary on Common Savings and
Subjects, which are full of Common
$ensk, the beji sense in the world.
r 1 'HIS little oook is written in a stile altogether
JL novel, and is adapted to all capacities, as
well as to all ctafles of people, merchants, me
chanics and farmers. Such a reputation has this
work acquired, tjiat it has paflTed thro three im
preflions in the caftern states, and many houie
holders deem it so ufeful as to purchase a copy
for every adult in iheii families. Pwiee 2s.
February 4. dtf
JAMES LEACH,
RESPECTFULLY informs his friends and
the public, That from the encouragement
he has received, from fevers! refpe£lable Gentle
men, lie is induced once more, to embark in the
PAPER LlNE—and would offer his fervires to
all those Gentlemen, who can place confidenc
in him ; and ho alfurcs those who employ htm,
that their confidence shall not be misplaced
but it Ihall be his constant endeavor, to pay the
Hri£lc ft attention to their bed interest, in all ne
gociations whatever. He has taken the Chamber
in State-Street, over Mr. David Town/end, Watch
Makei's Shop. -Where PUBLIC SECURI
TIES, of all kinds, are bought arid fold ; and
where Com miffioo Business of ill kinds, will be
tranfaftcd on reafonablt terms. HOUSES and
VESSELS will be conllantly exposed for faie, on
commiflioii,
*»* Cash paid for Salem, Providence, and
Porifmouih BILLS
N. B. If any Gentleman in Philadelphia, o;
New-York,has any Business to traifffl at hajlen
in Paper Negociations, he will be happy to be em
ployed, on commij/ion.
Boston, Jan. 24, 1794.
Just Imported,
In the Ship Edward, Capt. Crandan, from
St. Peter (burg in Russia,
And now landing at South-street Wharf. vi 7
Hemp, ' "
BAR IRON,
RUSSIA SHEETING,
RAVEN's DUCK,
RUSSIA DUCK,
HOG's BRISTLES.
A.ND FOR SALE BY
John Donnaldfon,
No. 21, Walnut-street.
diw3tawtf
March 4,1794.
« -V.
*
The Public are cautioned to ,
beware rf counterfeited Five Dollar Bills of
the Bank of the "United States, and Twenty
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North America,
fe-veral of which hwue appeared in circulation
within a few days past ; they are a good ge
neral imitation of the genuine Bills, hut may
be diOinguifhed by the following
marks.
Five Dollar Bills of the Bank of the
United States.
ALL that have appeared liavs the letter F.
for their Alphabetical Mark.
The Texture of the Paper is thicker and
whiter and it takes the ink more freely than
the genuine paper.
The O. in the word Company is smaller
than the M. and other letters of that word,
f® that a line extended from the top of the O,
to touch the top of the M would extend con
fulsiably above the range of the whole word.
lu the word United the letters are narrow*
erand closer together than the reft of the bill
The i and /in the word promise are not
parallel, the /inclining much more forward
than the «
The engraving is badly executed,the strokes
(if al] the Letters are stronger and the devi e
ill the margin particularly ismuch coarser and
appears darker than in the true bills. Some i
of the counterfeits bear date in 1791— Where
as the Bank was not in operation till Decem
ber, and no five dollar bills were issued in
that year.
Dollar Bills of the Bank of North
America.
ALL that have appeared have the letter
B. for their alphabetical mark.
They are printed on a paper nearly similar
to that of the counterfeit Five Dollm Notes
above described ; the engraving is bettei exe
cuted, and they approach neaTer to the ap
pearance of the genuine bills.
The fine ruled lines through the word Twtn
ty, in the body of the bill, are in number thir
teen in the genuine b 1 lis, and but twelve in
the counterfeits.
The word Company is much like the fame
word in the Five Dollar Blls is defer ibed a
bove, the 0 being less than then, and ethers
following.
There is no stroke to the / in the word North
whereas in the genuine bills the ftrojee is well
defined.
The letters ent in the word Tvunt), to the .
left hand at the bottom, do not come down to
the line, but are so cut as to give an irregular
appearance to the word, the Tui and '.he j go
ing below them.
The Signature J Nixon, t>as the appear
ance of beiog written with lamp-black and
goil, and differs from, the other inks used in
printing the bills and the cafhiei's lignature.
It is fupuofed these forgeries were committed
in some ot the Southern States, as all the coun
terfeits thai have appeared, have come Irom
ihpnr * twn j»i "ipHf"l I'htniL . -4B
ed in Virginia, on fufptcion of being the authors
of them.
The reward of ONE THOUSAND DOLLARS
will be paid to any Perfyn or who Ihdil
discover and prosecute to convi&ion the several
offenders of the following defcrjptions or any
of them, viz.
The person or prrfons, who raantifa&urcd
the paper oa which the Bills are printed.
The perfoa or persons, who engraved the
plates.
The printer or printers, of the bills.
Every per tan who has a&etl a. l a ?r in
any other way, in the counterfeiuug and utter
ing the (aid bills.
THOMAS WILLING, Pteficient
By order of the Committees ol the Ref
pe&ive Boards.
Philadelphia, March 28, 1794.
SOLD BY
Thomas Dobfon,
No. 41, South Second-Street:
THE History of Ncw-Hampihire, from (be
Discovery of the River Pifcataqua—by Je
remiah Belknap, D. D. 3 Vols. Price in Board 9,
412 Dollars.
The Forreftcr, an Amcrkan F-We, being a
Sequel to the History of John Bull the Clothier.
Prce, 75 Cents.
A Dilcourfe, intended to commemorate the
Discovery ot America by Christopher Colum
bus; delivered at the request of the Hiftoricai
Society in Massachusetts, O&ober 23d, 1792*
being the completion of the Thud Century*
since that memorable event. To which arc
added, Four D'flertations, corut«£)c<i with the
fufojeQ—By the fame author. Price, 50 Cen;s.
March 17. tuili&fgvv
For Sale by the Subscribers,
MUSCOVADO Sugar in hhds. &bbsl.
Hyson and Souchong Teas.
Sherry Wines, of superior quality, in pipes
and quarter caflcs.
Spanish Indigo.
Bolton Beef, in barrels.
mw&fif
And a small invoice of Muslins.
NALBRO' & JOHN FRAZIER,
No. 164, South Front-street.
March 8.
AN APPRENTICE
To the Printing Business, Enquire at this
Office.
PHILADELPHIA :
Printed by JOHN FENNO, No 4«
ot the Bin's United Stales.
JOHN NIXON, PrefUent of the
Bdnk ot N'oiih America.
s '' dM.
Lately Published.
*
'ANTED
Swith Fourth-Street.
OIIW4W